Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 





.'tah 




I 



' "^W 



■^■■■1 



■I 



SCIENTIFIC LIVING 



•••A ^^A %••• 



.FOR. 

PROLONGING THE TERM OF 
HUMAN LIFE 



The New Domestic Science 

COOKING TO SIMPLIFY LIVING 
AND RETAIN THE 

LIFE ELEMENTS IN FOOD 



By Laura Nettleton Brown 



The HeiJth-Cultuie Co. L. N. Fowler & Co. 

PASSAIQ N. J. NEW VORK ' LONDON, ENC 






Copyright, 1900, by 
The Health-Culture Co. 



Entered at Stationers' Hall 
London, £ng. 



^ I- (^10 W 



THIS BOOK 

Is dedicated to my husband and children, and to the 
mothers of now, and to the mothers yet to be : 

To my husband, Charles Montresor Brown, be- 
cause his recently completed novel — "The White 
World; or, The Coming Life" — in which the mar- 
velous people so ingeniously divulged the secret of 
perpetual youth, aroused in my mind the idea of 
establishing the principle of "normal life," evidently 
practised unconsciously by our early progenitors, 
but now lost, or merged into high living, and ab- 
normal and unnatural habits of cooking and eating; 
this normal life that is free from suffering, and 
deterioration of the body cells, can be established 
now, intelligently, as a race acquisition through 
education. 

To my children, Helen Gardener and Myrtle Un- 
dine Brown, as, in their childish innocence, they have 
taught me many lessons in normal living that I could 
not have acquired from older people with abnormal 
habits already formed. They have been the first to 



a DEDICATION. 

adopt the system, herein exemplified, by planning 
natural school lunches, and will soon be among the 
educators of the next generation, exerting their in- 
fluence to have "Scientific Living" introduced into 
the public schools of our free country. 

To the mothers of now, and the mothers yet to 
be, because the child must be trained from infancy, 
and should also be prenatally influenced, to cultivate 
and establish normal tastes, and habits, to obtain the 
most from a practical system of hygienic living; and 
to all progressive mothers, who desire to protect 
their children from suffering, and are ambitious for 
the best conditions of child-life because they have 
the courage to sustain every new cause during its 
stage of criticism and persecution, until the masses 
are developed to accept it. 

The Author. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



PAGE 
CHAPTER I. THE PURPOSE OF LIFE. 

Objective self — Subjective self — Abnormal conditions — 
Nature's tendency — ^Arousing the vital current — 
The "double" man — The purpose of life — How to 
find the place of "greatest good" — Happiness — 
Young cells — Mistakes that shorten life — Ways to 
mend the "broken bowl" — Christian Science — The 
greater aim — ^Long life and good health an inherit- 
ance — Dr. Osler---Commercial value of youth — 
Requirements to begin to prolong the term of human 
life — Best Christians should live long — Religion as an 
aid — The great moral influence of living "to live" — 
Duty to retain youth as long as possible i 

CHAPTER II. THE NORMAL MAN. 

A guiding star — Why man is deceived — Things con- 
structive, as distinguished from those destructive 
— Normal conditions — Man half-alive — An animal 
a "scrub" — Mental concept — Chemical changes — 
Cancer — Tumor — How they grow — How the body 
grows — When one organ fails — Nature — "Tonic" 
— Demands of life — Characteristics associated with 
longevity, which all should know — Value of nat- 
ural relaxation — -Why the "simple life" is popular 
— Higher race development — Requisites of normal 
life classified and explained 13 

CHAPTER III. THE GREAT CENTRAL TRUTH 
IN ALL HYGIENIC SYSTEMS. 

Peculiar action- of vital current — Why it must be un- 

v 



vi CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

derstood — What is the central truth? — Why man 
is deceived in his own feelings — The effect of 
remedies — How "cults" are formed — Why fads 
have some good — Why systems fail to prolong life 
— The delusion of fear — How children protect 
themselves — Habit in appetite — How a mother 
can change the appetite of a child — Effect of taste 
upon glands — Pepsin — A great purpose — Pleasing 
diet — To relieve tension from fear — Psychological 
effects — Christian Science cures — Do "anything" 
has a new meaning — The great law revealed 23 

CHAPTER IV. REGULATION. 

The first purpose of hygienic systems — Starvation 
among the rich — Diversity of food — Race evolu- 
tion — The Millennial Race — No sacrifice required 
to attain health or long life — Man's birth-right — 
It is right to please the sense of taste — Special 
dieting not needed — Not leave table hungry — 
More delicious and savory dishes with greater 
knowledge of chemistry of food — Fasting — Long 
fasts dangerous — True value of short fasts — ^Value 
of sleep — "Suicide club." j^^j 

CHAPTER V. THE PURPOSE OF REGULAR 

EATING. 

Not for nutrition only — Source of vital power — How 
Christ fed the multitude — Value of knowing how 
— Grade of tissue desired — Good blood — ^Coarse, 
dead food — Its influence upon tissue — Refining 
tissues — How to make changes easily — Poison 
from excess of food — Growth of bacteria — Dis- 
eases fostered — Intemperate eating and drinking 
— To arouse a weak stomach — Cell vitality — "Life 
line" prolonged — Power of endurance increased — 
Why strong-appearing men often succumb to dis- 
ease and death — Need of education 44 

CHAPTER VI. THE LIVING CELL IN FOOD. 

Food naturalists — Great discovery — Facts known to 
science — Life in food — Dead food — Raw Food sys- 



CONTEXTS. vii 

PAGE 

tem valuable, but extreme — Other ideas — New 
system of cooking to save life in food — The cell 
structure — Nature of cell action and reproduction 
— Animal cell — Vegetable cell — Old age disease — 
Cause of nervous prostration — Three ways in 
which life is apparent — ^Vitality of seed germ — 
Death of the cellr— Inorganic conditions 51 

CHAPTER VII. THE IMPORTANCE OF PROTEID. 

Three great purposes of food — Other essential ele- 
ments — Only source of life — Other conditions that 
are sustaining for a time — Why people grow fat 
with age — Why some are too thin — The body cells 
— What Blaisdel says — Best authorities show pos- 
sibility of retaining youth — Vital conditions 61 

CHAPTER VIII. WHY PEOPLE CAN LIVE 

AT ALL. 

WHiy people are alive, even though not well nourished 
— Only partly alive — Why animals cannot pro- 
long life indefinitely — The "riddle of the Sphynx" 
— Early times — Bread of our ancestors — How abil- 
ity to live long was lost — How and why — Advent 
of cooking — How nature demands some kinds of 
food to be used — Amount of food to sustain tis- 
sues — Over-eating — Dieting — Men who swallow 
jack-knives — Devitalized food — Some dietarians 
extreme — Demands of civilization — Purpose of 
cooking, a part of nature's plan 65 

CHAPTER IX. THE OBJECT IN COOKING. 

Eight objects explained — Authorities agree that pres- 
ent methods injure one element while improving 
another — Quotation from "Chemistry of Cooking" 
— New system of cooking fulfils all objects of 
cooking without injury to food — Why mistaken 
courses are pursued — Experiments with heat — 
Experiments with bacteria — The nature of the cell 
of food in regard to heat — The place of "greatest 
good" revealed — How accomplished 73 



viii CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

CHAPTER X. THE SCIENTIFIC APPLICATION 

OF HEAT. 

The effect of heat upon different kinds of food — Veg- 
etables — Fruits — Sugar — Fat life of cells — Chemical 
changes — Difference in vegetable and animal cell 
— How heat is kept uniform — Some of the present 
cooking is scientific — It is accidental — "The chem- 
istry of cooking largely the chemistry of flavor" — 
Secret of best flavor — Numerous authorities — How 
to cook with less labor — How to test degree of heat 
— Modern ovens — Best ways of cooking — Scientific 
cooking, simple and practical 80 

CHAPTER XI. THE FIRELESS COOKER. 

Another way of cooking to protect vital elements in 
food — Less labor — Less expense — Effort of the 
Department of Agriculture — Theory — ^American 
army — History of Cooker — Method of construc- 
tion — How to use it in Scientific Cooking or The 
New Domestic Science to avoid injury to food — 
Special suggestions for different kinds of food — 
Just how to cook each kind 90 

CHAPTER XII. THE PROPER COMBINATIONS. 

Combinations for the best purpose — Involves many 
questions — ^A foundation for the planning of each 
meal — How other elements are grouped — A prop- 
erly combined meal — The essential elements — 
Classified and explained — Best use of liquids — 
How "bulk" is often neglected and the resulting 
injury — New ideas compared with present habits 
— Not all wrong 98 

CHAPTER XIIL THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 

Why it should be known — Mr. Atwater's effort to en- 
lighten the public — Extracts from "Principles of 
Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food" — Four 
propositions — Composition of body and of food — 
All the elements explained — How energy in food 
is measured — Food compared with fuel — "Respira- 
tion calorimeter" — Heat in body — Mental states— 



CONTENTS. ix 

PAGE 

How to avoid accumulating fat — Medicinal value 
of food — How each kind of fruit or vegetable is 
appropriated by the system — Useful information — 
Tables for reference 105 

CHAPTER XIV. CHEMICAL CHANGES WITHIN 
THE BODY LEADING UP TO THE POSSI- 
BILITY OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

Chemical changes in the digestive system — Different 
attitudes of mind — First important change in food 
— Living cells in gastric juice — How they are made 
sick and die in test tube — Yeast germ — Why so 
many stomachs crave stimulants — When stomach 
is restful — Action of stomach — How food is con- 
verted into tissue — Quality of blood — Prof. Loeb 
— ^"Artificial Life" — ^Action of constructive fer- 
ments — Carl Snyder's idea of long life — Croft 
Hiirs plan to prolong life — "Serums" in medical 
practice — The true "Elixir" 124 

CHAPTER XV. TIME OF EATING. 

One meal — "No breakfast" plan — Three meals — Sys- 
tem and regulation — Time of heartiest meal — 
When food is oxidized for energy — Liebeg*s idea 
— "New regimes" — Permanent and scientific 
changes in race development — Plan for breakfast 
— For lunch — For dinner — Fussed-up dishes — 
Poison that sickens one of food when used in ex- 
cess — How a mother can improve habits of eating 
— ^A sample dinner of "dead cells" — One of vital 
elements protected by scientific cooking — System 
a product of civilization 133 

CHAPTER XVI. THE EMANCIPATION OF 

WOMAN. 

Four ways in which she is emancipated — Three steps 
necessary to reduce labor — Ingenuity aroused — 
New plans — New interest in life — The "new 
woman" — The chemistry of food — Twelve practi- 
cal ways to improve conditions of the home — 
Mistaken sense of duty — A Ralstonite — The sav- 



X CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

ing of food — The saving of life — Why women 
worry — New ideas to arouse thought 143 

CHAPTER XVII. EXACT METHODS OF SCIEN- 
TIFIC COOKING. 

The principles of cooking— Many present combinations 
injurious^-Just how to select wisely — Hov/ to 
originate — How to begin to live for good health 
and the greatest pleasure from food 158 

SEASONING— Need of less seasoning— Its 
effect upon sense of taste — Nature of 
sauces — Loss to food — Best plan 159 

MILK — Its value as food — How to protect 
the life it contains — Harm of boiled milk 
— Pasteurized milk — Sterilized milk — Na- 
ture of buttermilk — Used for "something 
stronger" — Best purpose and use of sweet 
milk and buttermilk 161 

BREAD— Its elements— Defense of light 
bread — Nature of fermentation — Power of 
yeast germ — Effect of heat — How to ap- 
ply heat — Quick bread — ^The best kind of 
bread — Best flour — Why it is of value — 
How to make whole wheat bread — Un- 
leavened rolls — Unleavened gems — Beaten 
biscuit — Peanut bread — Unleavened corn 
bread — Brown bread — Unfired bread — 
Whole wheat biscuits — Value of unfired 
bread 163 

TOAST— Its value— Poison of ash— How it 
is deceiving — Why it is used as food — 
New way to prepare it — Its use in sim- 
ple preparations — Recipes — Milk-toast — 
Grandmother's milk-toast — Cheese-toast — 
Egg- toast — Poached egg-toast — Cream- 
toast — Nut-toast — English walnuts and 
toast — Golden ball toast 173 

CEREALS— Tissue building proteid— Hot 
mushes hastily swallowed — Cause of dis- 



CONTENTS. xi 

PAGE 

tress — Sugar — How to cook cereals sci- 
entifically — Value of uncooked cereals — 
Amount of cereal food at one time — Prep- 
arations — Cooked cereals — Uncooked 
cereals — Fruit and uncooked cereals — 

Fruit — Pressed cereals 176 

EGGS — Why easily digested — Value as tissue 
building food — Soft eggs — Hard-boiled 
eggs — Simmered eggs — How to cook to 
save vitality — Amount to use daily — 
Recipes — Poached eggs — Scrambled eggs 
— French poached eggs — Escalloped eggs 
— Egg cutlets — Stuffed eggs — Fairy's 
breath — Long-life beverage — Omelet — 
Vegetable omelet — Fruit omelet 180 

CHEESE — Not wisely used — How to prepare 
to save tissue building element — Amount 
to use — Recipes cheese dainty — Welsh 
Rarebit — Macaroni and cheese — Cheese 
souffle — Cheese ramokin — Cheese on 
toast 185 

NUTS, AND NUT DISHES OF MEAT 
VALUE — Value compared with meat — 
No dead cells — No chemical change — 
How they serve the best purpose — When 
nuts are cooked — How blanched — Roast- 
ing peanuts — Nuts and salad recipes — Nut 
loaf — Nut cream or gravy — Nut-meat 
cakes — Nut cutlets — Nut-stuffed egg plant 
— Pecan pie — Cocoanut pie-crust (Mrs. 
Anderson) — Vegetable pie — Tomato souf- 
fle — Potato souffle — Nut sandwiches — Nut 
salads — Nut butter 188 

MEAT — Its value as food — Its harm as food 
— Living cells of meat — Dead cells — Why 
short-lived — ^Various authorities on pois- 
ons in meat — Cause of diseases — Why it 
is not a "strong food" — Canned meats — 
Tests of strength — Greek athletes — 
Slavery of women — False ways of earning 
missionary money — Cannibars biological 



xii CONTENTS. 

PAGE 



data — Most intelligent nations— Moral 
influence — ^The financial side — Expense as 
food — How to use less meat — New com- 
binations — The best plan for gradual 
changes 193 

VEGETABLES— Divisions of food— Tissue- 
building vegetables — Those affording heat 
and energy — Succulent vegetables — Blood 
purifiers — How they counteract old age — 
How to cook to avoid loss of mineral 
elements — Antiseptic — Sins of cooking — 
Table of amount of mineral elements 
usually lost in present use of food — How 
to cook dry beans and peas — ^Value of 
potatoes — Simmered potatoes — Baked po- 
tatoes — Cream potatoes — Reheated pota- 
toes — Sweet potatoes — Rice — Starch foods 
— Quick rice — Combinations from rice and 
other starch foods 203 

SALADS — May be of great value or of great 
injury — Tender bulbs — More elaborate 
combinations — Hot salads — The best 
dressing — Nature of vinegar — Mistakes of 
vegetarians — Pickles — French dressing — 
Mayonnaise dressing — Fruit salad — Dress- 
ing — Hot salad dressing — Lettuce salad — 
Nut salad — Fruit salad — Hot salad — 
Greens-^Irish stew 210 

FRUIT — Its value as food — Chemical ele- 
ments — Antiseptic — How to use fruit — 
Bulk — Poor, deluded woman — Preserves — 
How fruit will aid temperance cause — 
Pickles and jam — ^Variety of fruit — Each 
kind of fruit suited to some specia- pur- 
pose — How to serve different kinds- -Dry 
fruit 215 

CHAPTER XVIIL SWEETS AND OTHER 

LUXURIES. 
Poisonous in nature — The non-poisonous within their 
own nature — Plenty of wholesome luxuries — How 






CONTENTS. xiii 

PAGE 

to avoid dangerous ones — The dividing line be- 
tween life and death — Youth and old age — Sugar 
a food — Its right use — Peevish children — How to 
derive pleasure from luxuries — Law of happiness 
— Candy — Natural sweets 223 

OILS AND FATS— How decomposed— Value 
of fats — The best form — Less, instead of 
more fats and oils 228 

PIES, CAKES, PUDDINGS AND JELLIES 

— Not essential to life — Kinds that are 
less liable to be injurious — How to pre- 
pare them 229 

CONDIMENTS — Salt — Pepper — Spices — 
Mustard — Sauces — Vinegar — How condi- 
ments affect the sense of taste — Decaying 
food — The nature of sauces — Their Drigin 
— Why condiments are so excessively used 
— Mother-in-laws — Preserves' and pickles 
— Effect of vinegar germs upon living 
cells — ^The best acid for salads — Meat 
extracts — No food value — Pepper a veg- 
etable poison — Coffee and tea — Why 
chemists try to extract poison — Purpose 
of condiments and stimulants in nature's 
plan — ^The need of salt in organized form 
— ^The way nature supplies it — ^The harm 
of the present excessive use of salt — Kid- 
ney diseases — Consumptive tendencies — 
Scurvy — Why salt is so much demanded 
— Why so many people feel that life is not 
"worth while" — The road to destruction — 
A new law revealed — How to free the 
system from the deadening effect of stim- 
ulants — A new idea regarding seasoning- 
How crime is increased by poisons used in 
food — ^The normal appetite — Why people 
make life hard and full of suffering — ^John 
Burroughs' idea of happiness — Why peo- 
ple do not know when they are happy 
or well-fed — How to use luxuries to add 
to life, instead of to hasten death 233 



xiv CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

CHAPTER XIX. "SIMPLE LIFE," OR REGULATED 
MENUS FOR SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Sample menus for one week — The Sunday dinner — 
Need of reform for Sunday cooking — Sin of over- 
eating — Not a sacrifice, but a gain — The burdeii 
of Sunday roasts — Scientific cooking affords bet- 
ter food with less labor — Dinner and luncheon 
reversed — Sample menu for Sunday 244 

CHAPTER XX. THE BEST SYSTEM OF DIET FOR 
PROLONGING THE TERM OF HUMAN LIFE. 

Better nutrition — Less labor — Greater variety — This 
new plan will revolutionize cooking — Woman will 
be emancipated from care — The home will be ele- 
vated — The digestive glands and organs will be 
educated for long life — The whole system of diet 
is educative and elevating — Better brain power — 
More freedom from poisonous stimulants — When 
children are reared from birth in the right way 
they will not depart from it — They will like it 
better than the old hap-hazard ways of living that 
lead to suffering — Sample menus for one week — 
No sacrifice is required — Taste is more perfectly 
gratified with delicious and pleasing food than at 
present 25 1 

CHAPTER XXI. ASSOCIATE INFLUENCES. 

Other things essential to normal life and the perfect 
digestion and assimilation of food — Deeper study 
and practice of normal habits — A greater effort to 
live is a part of the Divine plan — A duty as well as 
a great privilege 264 



SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

CHAPTER I. 

THIS PURPOSE OF UFK. 

Each individual has two inherent phases of life — 
the outer and the inner, or an objective self and a 
subjective self. 

The objective self is represented by the physical 
body and objective mind, with its five senses of 
sight, hearing, taste, smell and touch. It is the part 
of the individual that is at the mercy of human 
judgment, as every thought and act of daily life 
is incorporated in the mental structure and impressed 
upon the physical tissues, making them more per- 
fect and enduring, thus increasing happiness and 
prolonging life, else is destructive in tendency, lead- 
ing to suffering, disease, crime and early death. 
There is no intermediate point of indifference or 
standing still in nature. The objective self, both 



2 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

physically and mentally, is constantly changing for 
better or for worse — ^the new cells of daily growth 
are stronger and more vital with each cycle, or 
weaker from deterioration, and living is scientific to 
the degree that all action, whether in thought, labor 
or recreation, is elevating, progressive and just to 
one's self and to others, thus building the best possi- 
ble objective life. 

The subjective self is represented by the Ego. 
It is the better self and is an ideal, or pattern, ac- 
cording to which the objective life should be con- 
structed to yield the highest manhood, the truest 
happiness and the greatest degree of success. The 
Ego is the life principle of the man, and is in "attune 
with the Infinite,*' from which its forces are sus- 
tained. When the objective conditions are normal 
the subjective mind furnishes, through the nervous 
system, a steady supply of vital force, which com- 
bines with that generated within the organism from 
food, keeping the system in working order and re- 
building the tissues during sleep. 

Abnormal objective conditions, such as worry, 
fear, excesses, poisonous food, crimes, diseases, 
anger, ignorance of the source of life, impatience, 
or loss of sleep, check or hinder the influx of the 
vital life current, as well as interfere with the action 



THE PURPOSE OF LIFE. 3 

of the system in generating supplementary nerve 
forces from cell activity, thus fostering complica- 
tions leading to dissolution. 

Nature always tends toward the perfect — its ef- 
fort is always to restore harmony or to readjust 
the objective and subjective life, hence when 
a resolve is made by the individual to correct a 
wrong, or improve a condition, or even when hope 
is inspired, a sudden influx of vital force is aroused 
to sustain the effort. This sustaining power is usu- 
ally greater than the normal amount that has been 
suppressed, but it gradually subsides to the normal 
as readjustment is established; however, it is an 
important factor to consider in all hygienic as well 
as moral changes. It may be used as a direct power 
when the. laws of mind are understood, but its 
action is spontaneous to a great degree in the pres- 
ent stage of development. Worry and tensions that 
hinder the processes of the life principle should 
be thoughtfully avoided, as they deteriorate cell 
growth and shorten life. 

Because of the two natures, that so often conflict 
for supremacy, man seems to be dual, but he is not 
in reality dual, as it requires the tzvo selves harmonr- 
ised to make a perfect man. 

Instead of the "double" man so popular and de- 



4 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

lightfully mystical, it is apparent that the more the 
selves are separated the less the man, as a practical 
entity; in fact, in this age of disease, crime and 
early death, no one can boast of being a whole man, 
much less a double one or a god ; however, the great 
purpose of life is to approach the ideal, attaining 
perfection little by little, thus elevating the human 
race that the greatest happiness may be enjoyed here 
and hereafter. This can be done only l^y the grad- 
ual improvement of the objective mind and body, 
which, in itself, is conducive to indefinite existence ; 
thus the first necessity of prolonging life, as well 
as fulfilling the great purpose of life, is to be able 
to intelligently bring the objective self more and 
more in harmony with the subjective self, that the 
vitality may be maintained and all the activities of 
mind and body may be as free as possible from 
friction, which is disintegrating to physical tissues. 

To this end there is a place in every line of action 
where it serves its greatest purpose. It is this point 
of "greatest good'* that should be always held be- 
fore the mind as a guiding star. 

Animals are directed toward it in their habits of 
life by instinct. Man is protected greatly by in- 
tuition, but if guided entirely by an "unknown 
force" he would have no use for reason or judg- 



' THE PURPOSE OF LIFE.. 5 

ment, hence the higher position of intelligence, by 
which to direct the course of life, must be acquired; 
this, with the ups and downs of experience, in at- 
taining it, is life. 

It is more desirable to progress gradually, through 
aspiration, effort and action, than to have been 
created perfect, and free from negative conditions, 
merely to exist. 

Happiness is not dependent upon perfection, but 
upon harmless relaxation or thoughts and actions 
leading toward perfection — it is the reward of un- 
yielding precaution or direct effort to advance in 
some capacity, and can be gained in no other way, 
although momentary gratification, followed by re- 
gret or pain, is often sought and mistaken for hap- 
piness. 

The idea of the "greatest good" in action may be 
illustrated to appeal even to a child by means of the 
locomotive. The slow engine is not doing its best 
while the wild train meets with wrecks and self- 
destruction. An engineer is needed to regulate the 
engine to attain its highest speed before its best 
service can be secured, its speed being in harmony 
with the principle of the machinery. A large strong 
engine will produce a greater speed for a longer 
time than a weak and poorly constructed one. A 



6 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

competent engineer can easily tell what course to 
pursue with two such machines to prevent total 
destruction for the longest possible time. 

In a similar manner the will and judgment of the 
man should regulate the objective life that it may 
run smoothly year after year, and century after 
century, as, unlike the machine, the body^ constantly 
rebuilds itself anew. No cell in the body, of even 
an octogenarian, is over five years old. Old age, 
sickness, and death are the results of ignorant or wil- 
ful violation of the laws of life, acquired or inher- 
ited. God does not enforce obedience to natural 
law. In his infinite wisdom and desire for man to 
progress he is most lenient; yet, law and regulation 
would serve no purpose if suffering did not follow 
its violation. Pain is a voice of warning, that 
readjustment of the objective and subjective life is 
necessary to check the encroachment of old age, or 
death, that must result from the course pursued, 
hence a spell of sickness stays the mad rush to the 
grave more perfectly than other forms of warning. 

Mistakes, that tend to shorten life, are made be- 
cause man must learn what is the **best course" 
largely by experience. To counteract these mis- 
takes many ways are provided by which to mend 
the "broken bowl,*' even though, in most cases, it 



THE. PURPOSE OF LIFE. 7 

is mended only to be broken again. The family 
physician, nature cures, magnetism, electricity, pat- 
ent medicines, and mind cures, all serve a similar 
purpose. Even the Christian Scientist, who does 
not fear disease, as he is confident he can "demon- 
strate over" it, is on just a little different plane of 
mending "broken bowls." This condition of over- 
coming is a necessity, and the ability to "demon- 
strate over" dangerous places should reach a high 
degree of perfection, but with it, in every form, 
should be closely associated the much greater aim of 
discovering how to live more scientifically, that the 
life machinery may run smoothly, thus the pain and 
suffering of diseases, crimes, mistakes and all kinds 
of vital ruptures may be gradually avoided. 

While it requires a certain amount of directed 
effort to pursue a systematic course of living, that 
is free from injury, it is easier to live right, when 
one knows how, than to live in a drifting manner 
and suffer the consequences. 

As a few generations are regulated to the simple 
natural life that would sustain itself for centuries, it 
becomes "bred in the bone." The desire for crime 
and destructive tendencies is gradually lost, hence 
long life becomes an inheritance as well as a pro- 
duct of direct effort. 



8 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Long life is fast becoming of commercial value. 
Old age is no longer respected as it was a century 
ago. Even the opinion and experience of age, that 
should be of more weight than the immature judg- 
ment of youth, are being looked upon with sus- 
picion, because of the feeling that the mental de- 
cline, after the half-century mark is passed, renders 
man less trustworthy than in early maturity. Al- 
though the intimation of Dr. Osier, while address- 
ing a body of medical students before his departure 
for Oxford^ "That men past sixty years of age 
should be chloroformed as useless," is too extreme 
for consideration, his opinion that man reaches his 
prime at thirty-five, and has only fifteen years of 
real maturity before beginning to decline, is sus- 
tained indirectly by all corporations employing labor. 
Positions of trust are not given to men on the 
downhill road, even though such positions may be 
retained for a time if acquired by them in early 
life. Ministers, teachers, doctors, and lawyers, as 
well as great statesmen, are also ignored or less 
honored as age advances, young men taking their 
places. It is true that this is fulfilling a law of 
nature, but it is just as true that the mature life may 
be maintained for a greater number of years, and 
it is worth the effort to attain it through education 



THE PURPOSE OF LIFE. 9 

cks a race acquisition. As the preparation for life 
becomes more mature, and thorough, the term of 
existence must be increased instead of diminished, 
else the preparation is to no purpose. 

Only a few requirements are necessary to begin 
to live to prolong life, and fulfill the highest human 
destiny in hastening race evolution : 

1. To cultivate a desire for long life. 

2. To realize the possibility of prolonging life 
indefinitely. 

3. To arouse the will and energy to live each day 
for that great purpose. 

At first blush it seems that everyone would desire 
to live for centuries, providing youth or maturity 
could be retained, but the race belief in death at 
"three-score-years-and-ten" is so fixed that it re- 
quires some time to change the habitual thoughts of 
the shortness of life and desire to live longer, or 
grasp the possibilities of any different condition ; in 
fact, the idea, for a time, is regarded by many as 
sacrilegious, and is even distasteful. The feeling 
that life is an up-hill journey, at best, and that 
death, in the near future, is a relief, is also a bar- 
rier; but with all the false teaching the exact time 
never comes, in normal life, when one is willing to 
say, "I do not desire to live longer," even though 



lo SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

bowed with age. Had death been established as a 
reward for noble living it might be courted, but as it 
is a penalty man may bring upon himself at any 
time, by dissipation, sin and ignorant mistakes, it is 
to his credit to defer it as long as possible, the only 
noble death being that of sacrifice of life for others. 

The ^'conquest of. death'* does not mean that one 
will ever reach a place absolutely immune from dis- 
solution, but that the be$t methods of living render 
one more positive to negative and disintegrating 
forces. Vitality resists disease. Long life does not 
interfere in any way with the usual religious prepar- 
ation for the future, as it is inevitable, even cen- 
turies being a small part of eternity, besides the 
hold upon life may be accidentally lost at any time. 
The best Christians should live the longest, at the 
same time all who aspire to long life should gladly 
seek all uplifting religious influences, as an aid 
rather than a duty, hence the two great causes go 
hand in hand. 

No matter how unnatural the thought of long 
life may be at first, it is a part of Nature's plan, as 
fast as the race develops to it, and even though cast 
aside for a time, as is customary with all new move- 
ments, or discoveries, it returns again and the mind 



THE PURPOSE OF LIFE. ii 

reflects upon it until it becomes the great center 
around which everything else must revolve. 
The reason says: 

1. It is sweet to live. 

2. It is right to live longer, as a long life means 
a better life. 

3. It is a duty to "live to live/' as well as to live 
to die. 

4. Our work has just begun, and we should live 
longer to do greater good. 

5. It is our duty to our children to make long life 
a part of their inheritance. 

6. It is a duty to preserve our youth and vigor to 
retain our usefulness, and avoid being a burden to 
others. 

7. Death is slow suicide, at best, and we should 
do our duty in preventing it as long as possible, as 
every phase of the effort to live is elevating to 
humanity. 

8. Such a life is the beginning of heaven upon 
earth and will usher in the millennium. No one 
who aspires to live will kill, steal, drink, or indulge 
in passion or other moral turpitudes. 

9. It is not only a duty but a privilege to be young 
and free, and enjoy life as long as possible, even as 
long as the patriarchs of old. 



12 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Thus the great moral influence of the long life 
philosophy appeals to the mind; the new hope is 
born, the great possibility becomes apparent, the 
desire to know how is all-possessing, and the zvill- 
ingness to make the effort is established. 



THE NORMAL MAN. 13 



CHAPTER 11. 

THE NORMAIv MAN. 

The first practical step in prolonging life is to 
have an ideal before the mind as a guiding star. 
This is found in the normal life, which means the 
fullness of health, strength, beauty, morality and 
intelligence, according to the present capacity of the 
individual with endless progression in possibility. 

The normal man is now so confused with morbid- 
ness and extremes that he is quite an unknown and 
mysterious being. The average adult has but little 
better conception of what he should do or be to 
gain the most from life than has a child. 

It is not uncommon for one to believe that be- 
cause he can lift a certain weight, study or dissipate 
all night, or eat or drink a large amount of injurious 
food a few times, without apparent injury, that he 
can do the same continuously. The reason is not 
poised to judge the real capacity, and education is 
lacking in that it does not distinguish more per- 



14 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

fectly between things constructive, or favorable to 
life, and those that are of a destructive nature. 

Normal conditions are those best suited to the 
highest intellectual, moral and physical attainments, 
thus affording the most perfect cell development for 
continuous objective life. 

It is possible for man, as well as plants and ani- 
mals, to exist under the most adverse circumstances, 
but the subjective self, or life principle, is not fully 
expressed in the objective life unless the general 
requisites of growth and repair are fulfilled. One 
often imagines that to be alive is all that is neces- 
sary, little realizing how far this is from enjoying 
the fullness of life. Very few realize how deficient 
they are in healthy vital cells or how many abnormal, 
half dead, or diseased cells they carry about. As a 
plant or an animal has a commercial value, an effort 
is made to bring it to as high a standard as possi- 
ble. Improper nourishment, or too little air, water 
or sunshine soon reduce a thrifty plant or animal to 
a "scrub," 

The influence upon human life of neglecting the 
common requisites is the same. Even though many 
less vital deficiencies may be overcome for a time 
by one organ doing the wprk of another, it is not 
possible to be continuous. 



THE NORMAL MAN. 15 

Normal means that which is essential to express 
and maintain life in visible form. It indicates what 
can be indulged, or the pace that can be lived day 
after day, and year after year, without injurious 
results. 

The normal strength and ability may be increased 
by gradually steady effort, but they are always de- 
creased by extremes. 

The physical body is not a "mental concept." It 
is the expression of infinite mind through the action 
of the life principle as seen in natural growth. 

Natural growth, whether animal or vegetable, is 
a continuous process of cell growth. The vegetable 
cells prepare the inorganic chemical substances into 
organic compounds suited for use by the animal 
cells. 

All the chemical and physical changes of the 
system are produced by cell activity. Under normal 
conditions the cell growth and exchange would be 
constant, thus affording an ideal for the preserva- 
tion of youth. 

Pain is a voice of warning that the physical or- 
ganism is clogged, or that some of the requisites for 
cell growth are being neglected. 

This exhaustion, or neglect, soon reduces the 
number of cells in some organ, causing weakness. 



i6 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

The poise of the cell producing and labor perform- 
ing machine is lost to some degree. First one organ 
then another is overworked in an effort to 
restore harmony. The failure to fully eliminate 
waste soon generates an excess of poison, resulting 
in inflammation, and other diseases, according with 
the effort of nature to free the system, as kidney 
trouble if the excess is eliminated through the kid- 
neys, or lung trouble if it is cast off by the lungs. 
If all the eliminating organs become weak, the re- 
tained waste gradually accumulates until abnormal 
cells, like those of tumors and cancer arise in the 
poison. They attract the poison from all parts of 
the system, feeding and growing upon it. 

The life principle grows the normal man, but it 
has nothing to do with the growth of disease tissue, 
like that of a tumor. False conditions, both mental 
and physical, hinder the true growth and foster or 
support the abnoral growth, thus various organs cry 
out against such expression. 

Many remedies — ^most of which are more or less 
superstitions — are applied for relief. The body is 
poulticed, plastered, massaged, manipulated and 
drugged. Even the "false concept" that names, in- 
dividualizes, fears, watches and grows the abnormal 
cells may be "crossed out," leaving the life principle 
free to eliminate the growth in natural channels. 



THE NORMAL MAN. 17 

Under enforced rest from food and labor, almost 
any earnest effort — ^the best one knows — unless it 
is of a nature adding more poison to the system — 
will aid in freeing the organs for the time being, 
but the only scientific, reasonable and lasting relief 
must be found by seeking the normal life. 

It is not nature that needs a "tonic'' or needs to 
be "rallied." She is always ready with an unlimited 
supply of vitality to make repairs when given 
half a chance. 

It is almost a universal belief that there is some 
sacrifice in giving up or avoiding things that induce 
early death. This is a mistake. 

Habit and momentary gratification are responsi- 
ble for this feeling, as the highest possible pleasure 
that can be known is found in the channel that sus- 
tains life most perfectly. 

The demands of life are not numerous or hard to 
fulfill, they are simple and natural, yet afford ample 
range for action and pleasure free from depressing 
reaction. 

It is the complications of civilization, with the 
spontaneous inclination to do anything, think any- 
thing, eat anything, grasp anything the unregulated 
fancy desires, without thought of the results, that 
makes life hard and full of sorrow. 

Those who are abnormally developed must soon 



i8 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

give up food, pleasure and ambition, while those who 
reserve strength may enjoy the best there is in- 
definitely. This is no sacrifice for those who do 
right. 

Nature never allows any person to become entirely 
perverted. Neither are any born perfect. Each one 
has some strong points, with a large sense of justice 
in some way. At the same time each has many 
weak points. 

To be well balanced one must keep the requisites 
of normal life in mind and aim especially to 
strengthen the weak places. 

The time to begin to live for longevity is hundreds 
of years before one is born, but as nature is lenient, 
it is never too late to derive great benefit from every 
true effort. 

Dr. Latson, the editor of Health-Culture, has dis- 
covered that certain physical and mental character- 
istics which are well to remember are usually asso- 
ciated with longevity. Among those most import- 
ant may be mentioned : 

I. That of carriage. One who inherits or culti- 
vates a straight spine maintains the normal position 
of all the vital organs. As they are free from pres- 
sure their work is performed for a much longer 
time than with those who yield to the inclinatie i 
to stoop. 



THE NORMAL MAN. 19 

2. That of the habit of natural steady deep 
breathing. Strong nerves and mental quietude are 
essential to proper breathing. He says, "The ex- 
cited men — the emotional individual — who suffo- 
cates with joy, palpitates with enthusiasm, sighs 
with the intensity of his attachments — the emotional 
individual by every inequality in his respiration ab- 
breviates his life." 

3. That of ease and repose of movement, "the 
hale, vigorous, healthy old man moves easily, 
lightly, silently. He has always moved that way." 

4. That those who live long are naturally small 
eaters. 

5. That the proper mental attitude influences all 
of these characteristics. For instance, "Refinement 
of taste results in frugal habits of eating. Mental 
power and calmness lead to ease and repose of move- 
ment, and to slow, deep breathing. Full breath- 
ing produces the erect carriage and the large chest." 

In addition to this it may be added that these good 
qualities afford the natural relaxation necessary for 
the free action of the excretory organs. This is 
most vital, as a clean alimentary canal, free from 
decay or putrefying waste is essential to health. Ar- 
tificial means to remove excretia may be resorted to 
in cases of necessity, but nothing short of right 
living, and free normal action, will maintain the 



20 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

balance needed to accumulate cell vitality able to 
resist old age. 

At present weakness in this way is cultivated from 
infancy, and the prevalence of constipation, and of- 
fensive breath, which may so easily be prevented, 
indicates how far the human family is from being 
normal. 

It requires the highest possible development of 
the reason to live the simple, natural normal life. 

This is why the "simple life" is becoming so 
popular. No ability or culture is needed to indulge 
in thoughtless extravagance. 

There is a great difference between the "simple 
life" of the primitive races who lived close to nature, 
because there was no temptation to do otherwise, 
and the present movement of doing so from the 
high position of choice. 

The human race is entering a higher stage of de- 
velopment. Extremes of all kinds have been sought 
and found inadequate; they do not give peace of 
mind or happiness. 

The strain and duplicity to which so many re- 
sort in acquiring vast fortunes deprives them of all 
the true pleasure of living. At the same time the 
poorer classes fail to enjoy the simplicity in which 
they must live, as they imagine that the life of in- 



THE NORMAL MAN. 21 

diligence is all that could be desired, hence the great 
need of more direct teaching of a true standard 
of living — ^the best from every standpoint being that 
which maintains normal life and is within the reach 
of all. 

The general requisites of normal life are about 
the same, as far as physical existence is concerned, 
for plants and animals, as for man. 

They are not complicated. Any thoughtful per- 
son can fulfill all the demands and enjoy the fullness 
of life. They may be summed up as follows : 

NORMAI. REQUISITES. 

1. Nutritious food — just enough — not too much. 

2. Natural relaxation — or action of the excretary 
organs — bowels, kidneys, lungs and skin. 

3. Pure water — freely used. 

4. Pure air, day and night — and large lungs to 
appropriate it. 

5. Sunshine — avoiding excessive heat. 

6. Exercise — work (aim in life), spontaneous 
play, directed exercises daily. 

7. Cleanliness — daily or frequent bathing and 
change of clothing. 

8. Sleep — rest and relaxation. 



1 



22 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

9. Protection from elements— -enough clothing, 
but not too much. 

ID. Companionship^Social success — Financial 
success. Average success may be obtained without 
great struggle and worry under normal conditions 
and will have much to do with prolonging life. 

11. Proper attitude of mind — Constructive, hope- 
ful, confident, successful, and progressive thoughts 
should be entertained and those of a negative and 
destructive nature carefully avoided. 

12. Conservation of Vitality — ^Thoughtful self- 
control in all things prevents waste of vitality, the 
same as it prevents loss in a financial way. 

13. Recognition of the Life Principle — The Life 
principle and its oneness with the unlimited supply 
of Infinite life, must be recognized to establish con- 
fidence that the fountain of life is "all sufficient." 
Any lack of strength or force being only in man's 
failure to keep in condition to use it. 



THE GREAT CENTRAL TRUTH. 23 



CHAPTER HI. 

THE GRHAT CENTRAIy TRUTH IN Al^Iy HYGUeNlC 

SYSTEMS. 

The influence of food, sunshine, air, and exercise 
upon the human system is of vital importance, each 
being a requisite of the normal man, but before the 
true conception of many physical conditions, or the 
real value of hygienic systems, can be realized, the 
peculiar action of the subjective vital current must 
be understood. This vital current is the principle 
of growth and repair and different attitudes of mind 
tend to raise it above, or keep it below the normal, 
thus becoming a great factor for health or disease 
often disregarded. 

Most of the theories advocating special ways of 
living are effective to some extent in alleviating suf- 
fering, and may add a few years to the ordinary 
term of life, indicating that each mode of diet, or 
exercise, possesses a certain amount of virtue, but 
as some people are benefited by methods regarded 



24 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

as dangerous by others, it is apparent that some 
great general principle must underlie all of the the- 
ories, the extremist perceiving it only from one 
point of view — ^the benefit being more from the 
general law and inspired hope than from the sup- 
posed remedy. 

What is this central truth that is approached from 
so many qimrtersj It seems to be known yet is not 
wholly explicable. It is often confused with the 
action of the vital current, but it is a distant law. 

Because truth must be sought through experience 
man is endowed with a greater power of endurance 
than any other animal, thus affording a wide range 
of adaptation, enabling him to experiment in many 
directions for the essentials to sustain life indefi- 
nitely without permanent injury to himself. Each 
direct effort for improvement, however, involves 
one of the conditions of mind that is so deceiving, 
tending to keep humanity shifting from one thing 
to another, on the same plane of action, as it always 
seems to be some specific remedy instead of the 
attitude of mind or partial fulfillment of a general 
law that affords relief. This is due to the natural 
influx of subjective vitality when hope is inspired. 
The enthusiasm and will power required to execute 
any prescribed rule arouses an increase of vital 



THE GREAT CENTRAL TRUTH. 25 

force from the subjective side of life, while the 
concentration necessary to test a theory directs the 
vital current to that great purpose. No matter how 
extreme or injurious an idea may be in the end, as 
long as the will is dominant the action of all of the 
organs is quickened and a greater nerve force is 
generated, inspiring exuberance. 

In case of no positively injurious reaction, any 
inharmony may be counteracted to some extent in 
this way, hence it is but natural to attribute the 
cause of improvement to the manner of living, or 
the exercises taken at the time of the change, mak- 
ing a convert to the theory, besides arousing an 
earnest desire to induce others to adopt the same 
plan. As soon as similar results have been enjoyed 
by those attempting to prove the same theory it is 
sincerely believed that the "royal road to health" 
has been discovered, and a new "cult" is founded, 
all other systems being freely denounced, for in- 
stance: the vegetarian claims to prolong life, and 
overcome disease by avoiding the use of meats ; the 
naturalist, advocating the use of all foods in a nat- 
ural condition, attains the same results by eating 
raw food, while the advocates of the thoroughly 
cooked food system partake only of that which has 
been cooked for hours, and often twice cooked. The 



26 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

starvation cure enthusiast gains the coveted state 
of health by eating no food at all for days or weeks 
at a time ; even the stuffing and drink cures in which 
a large quantity of milk, water, eggs, or some one 
kind of food is taken to produce fat, seems to be 
effective for a time before the reaction of a worse 
breakdown, from overworked organs, sets in. 

One faddist even has decided that sugar burns in 
the system, creating fire that consumes tissue. Be- 
ing reduced to a walking skeleton from dyspepsia he 
conceived the idea of regaining strength by stopping 
the indulgence of all sweet things, thus quenching 
the internal flame. He describes, at length, the in- 
tense will required to discard one article of diet after 
another, as he discovered, in many things, he had 
not at first considered the objectionable quality of 
saccharine. His supply of food became most lim- 
ited, but he endured to the end, gaining health and 
strength, and is advocating his cause for the bene- 
fit of the world. 

Similar instances might be given to show that all 
of the systems of physical culture, nature cures, 
breathing exercises, and mind cures, as well as all 
preparations to prolong life, are based upon one 
small perception of the Great Central Truth sus- 
taining long life; thus, while being good, as far as 



THE GREAT CENTRAL TRUTH. 2y 

they go, end in similar disappointment, because the 
proper balance is lacking. 

The wonderful strength and endurance of the 
pugilist does not add to his longevity; the intel- 
lectual life of the most brilliant scholar does not 
prolong his years; the spiritual life of the devout 
Christian fails to establish youth. The failure to 
adjust the objective life zvith the subjective life, as 
is necessary for continued existence, is because man's 
development is one sided. He destroys one part of 
his nature in developing another, or leaves it to 
shrivel in neglect. The mind only becomes broad 
enough to maintain a more harmonious develop- 
ment after realizing how easily it has been deceived 
by the spontaneous action of subjective • vitality 
when a new remedy is adopted. Because of the 
natural tendency to perceive good, from only one 
standpoint, reform methods of all kinds usually 
involve sacrifice — a radical breaking up of all old 
conditions before new ones are possible. With the 
present development this is often necessary, as a de- 
sire for improvement is seldom realized until a need 
of it is painfully felt, or until the existing condi- 
tions become so oppressive that one is aroused to do 
anything for relief. In this state the mind is ready 
for extremes; in fact, extreme measures that may 



1 



28 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

generate still greater oppression are more acceptable 
than true remedies that are less radical. 

When the Great Central Truth, that reduces liv- 
ing to a scientific basis is understood, this torturing 
sacrifice will no longer be required, and each stage 
of development will be gradual and more perma- 
nent. 

THE DELUSION Ot PEAR. 

The constant suggestion of danger attending liie 
indulgence of certain foods, or habits, produces an- 
other complication that must be explained before 
the Great Central Truth that is so shrouded in mys- 
tery can be fully appreciated. The fear of a condi* 
tion causes the thought of it to be retained in the 
mind, lowering the vitality, tending to product the 
condition, while a sudden conquest of the fear frees 
the mind from the oppression, resulting in the same 
wonderful influx of vitality for a time from the 8ub- 
jective side of life, already mentioned as causing 
delusion regarding the real revivifying agent, or 
the healthfulness of foods, or habits, as when one 
with a delicate stomach overcomes the fear of chile 
pepper in Mexican dishes — indulging them ireely 
and fearlessly without apparent injury for a dme, 



THE GREAT CENTRAL TRUTH. 29 

he IS liable to decide, even against his judgment, 
that red pepper is desirable food, and to increase 
the amount, hoping for still better results. Many 
decisions regarding food are based upon no better 
judgment than this, while the suggestion of fear is 
a constant menace to health. 

Children, instead of being given the true sug- 
gestion that a reasonable amount of sweetmeats, at 
the right time of day — after luncheon or dinner — 
will afford them more pleasure than a large amount 
taken irregularly, are continually burdened with the 
admonition that "such things are unhealthy." The 
appetite for them is unchanged, but the stomach may 
be weakened or the vitality lowered by the sugges- 
tion of disease until it is unable to digest any kind 
of food. 

Were it not that these ideas of fear are instinc- 
tively counteracted by auto-suggestions, that most 
children dare not speak aloud, as, "No, it won't hurt 
me; I've tried it before; FU risk it," none of them 
would live to reach maturity, hence it is most im- 
portant that parents know the influence of thought 
upon the organs of the body, that they may avoid 
fostering sickness and death more rapidly than 
would the forbidden food, even though used inju- 
diciously. 



30 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Habit has much to do with the craving of the 
appetite and for a time hinders complying with the 
highest law of hygiene. Children raised on a few 
kinds of food are better nourished and better satis- 
fied, besides being stronger to resist the temptation 
of injurious things, than when a great variety of 
tastes is known to them before they are able to 
judge what is for their good, or to regulate the 
indulgence. There is no difficulty in adopting sys- 
tems of scientific living for long life if begun pre- 
natally. 

After appetites have been formed, if they are 
overruling or injurious, as a taste for intoxicants, 
they should be overcome as a diseased condition; 
but if the injury is only in the misuse, as with the 
taste for sweets, it is far better to control and satis- 
fy the desire for them until it is gradually out- 
grown than to stifle it. The system that knows the 
pleasure of taste, in its diversity, is like the youth 
who gains a glimpse of the world. He can no 
longer be content within the bounds of home, or be 
shielded by love and advice. His only safety lies 
in his inherent nature and ability to regulate him- 
self in the new sphere. If the system is called upon 
to sacrifice all of its pleasures of taste, many of 
which are perverted at present, it, like the youth, 



THE GREAT CENTRAL TRUTH. 31 

if restrained, becomes morbid. The glands refuse 
to secrete the fluids, and the harmony of the organs, 
as well as the influx of subjective vitality, is af- 
fected. 

The stimulus of a great purpose to test reforma- 
tory measures of diet may be sustaining for a time, 
but will not be permanent if the food is not grati- 
fying to the palate. It is upon this principle of in- 
fluencing the secretions that pepsin is obtained for 
medicinal purposes. Swine are kept fasting until 
the stomach is entirely empty, when they are per- 
mitted to see and smell a tempting pail of food, 
but not allowed to touch it. Immediately a large 
amount of gastric juice is secreted to digest the 
expected meal, then the animal is killed and the 
pepsin extracted for human use. 

The experiments of Pavlow upon dogs also prove 
that appetizing food always induces the greatest 
amount of juices to digest it. When dogs were 
forced to eat distasteful articles of diet the secre- 
tions were almost entirely stopped, and raw meat 
induced a much greater supply than cooked meat. 

This shows why children do not thrive when their 
natural or cultivated taste is disregarded. Even a 
health diet must be pleasing, else it fails in its pur- 
pose. Because of this tendency of the system to be 



32 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

ruled by the appetite, great care should be exer- 
cised by mothers in cultivating, from infancy, a 
taste for simple natural foods, that the struggle 
with the perverted appetite may be avoided. // the 
stomach is kept normal it craves only a normal food, 
but as most stomachs are already abnormal, to some 
extent, the change must be made judiciously, as 
it involves complications. 

In most cases, by arousing a desire for long life, 
the mind seeks vital food gradually dropping with- 
out conscious effort those less vital, thus the change 
is natural. If the system has become tensioned, and 
the craving is too intense to be abandoned easily, 
especially where the will is weaknend by disease, 
many experiments show that it is best to conquer 
the fear and gratify the appetite for the moment, 
thus untensioning the glands so suddenly that the 
influx of subjective vital force, that has been held 
in check, raises the system positive to the disease. 

Among the cases of this kind is an authenticated 
instance in which, gratifying the taste and over- 
coming the fear, aroused the digestive organs from 
a chronic dormant condition. A very weak dyspep- 
tic patient craved coffee, but her physicians had for- 
bidden it, saying it might prove fatal. Under the 
positive assurance that what the system craved 



THE GREAT CENTRAL TRUTH. 33 

would not be detrimental in her tensioned state of 
mind, she fearlessly drank three cups of strong 
coffee, and after a few weeks of positive mental 
treatment, was entirely well. 

Another instance shows the result of overcoming 
the fear of Mexican dishes by natural perversity. 
A young man — for months a sufferer from dyspep- 
sia — ^had been dieted until his stomach had become 
too weak to receive any kind of food without dis- 
tress. Hope had almost deserted him. One day, 
in this depressed mood, he passed a place where 
chili con carnie was being made. He had not tasted 
such food for many months, but the odor on the 
trisp morning air aroused a craving for it. He 
resisted the desire as most dangerous; however, he 
was not strong enough to master it, so decided, in 
desperation, to eat all he wanted if he died immedi- 
ately afterwards. He did not die, and is now very 
foolishly advocating "chili" as a "sure cure" for 
dyspepsia, not realizing that as soon as the psycho- 
logical effect is gone he will have some more serious 
ailment. 

Christian Scientists have many striking experi- 
ences of a similar character. Their first advice to 
a patient is, "eat all you want without fear." The 
radical enthusiast is delighted with his new-found 



34 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

liberty. He "cuts loose," as did Uncle Peter Bines 
when he struck his mine, as is illustrated by a 
wealthy cattleman from the West, who, after taking 
his first treatment for stomach trouble, of a scien- 
tist in Chicago, went to a restaurant and ordered a 
dinner of corn-beef, veal dumplings, potatoes, roast 
beef, cabbage, turnips, peppers, beans, pie, ices, three 
kinds of cake, wine and coffee, laughingly declaring 
he would test the power of his healer, as he had been 
starved for six months. After disposing of the 
largest part of his order he was surprised to find 
himself still alive. His faith was so established, as 
he suffered no inconvenience from such indulgence, 
that he remained two weeks longer to be entirely 
cured. 

The same extreme measures are adopted by Chris- 
tian Scientists in regard to fear of exhaustion from 
work. They say "do anything you want to, as 
God's strength is unlimited.'' While this is true, 
they do not realize that such power can be used 
at will only, as they develop to perceive it, or to 
establish it in objective growth. The first enthusi- 
asm is inspiration, not real development, hence can- 
not always be depended upon; however, under this 
advice, many people demonstrate the wonderful 
strength that can be commanded for a time. For 



THE GREAT CENTRAL TRUTH. 35 

instance: A refined lady in C , who had been 

confined to a wheel chair for years, was treated by 
Christian Science. As soon as her cure was effected 
she returned to her home and discharged her ser- 
vants. For many months she did all her own work, 
besides boarding two teachers, and walking several 
miles each day treating sick people. After further 
development she realized that "all you want" had 
another meaning. The rush and excesses are not 
desired. It is freedom from them that is necessary. 
It soon becomes a pleasure to Christian Scientists 
to know that they do not need to work so hard, or 
eat so much, hence the law of the "happy medium" 
establishes itself like water seeking its level. 

Many instances might be given of seemingly 
miraculous cures, or changes for the better, resulting 
from the sudden influx of subjective vitality, by the 
inspiration of hope, in trying new remedies, both 
material and mental, or through the dominance of 
the will to allay fear. Subjective vitality is gener- 
ated by the action of the life principle underlying all 
growth and repair. If it can cause the tissue of an 
organ to grow in the first place, there is no reason 
why it should not be aroused to repair it in case of 
injury. It is commonly known as the rallying of 
nature. It serves a great purpose, but is a law of 



36 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

mind power intending to overcome the evils of fric- 
tion, hence must not be confused with the great 
central truth serving as a basis of a system of scien- 
tific living, tending to avoid the friction and oppres- 
sions that demand correction by extreme measures, 
or spasmodic efforts to re-establish harmony. 

The great central principle that is approached 
from so many directions, and must be kept in mind 
as fundamental, while the surging changes of hope 
and fear are fleeting, is that of REGULATION, 
tending to simple natural habits, sustaining the cell 
life, and establishing a more normal poise. 



REGULATION- 37 



CHAPTER IV. 



REGULATION. 



The first purpose of nearly every hgienic system 
of living, is that of conscious regulation in some way 
requiring effort which arouses vitality, at the same 
time it checks the excesses which clog the system 
and exhaust cell energy, thus regulation is the real 
secret of improvement. More sickness and deaths 
result from intemperate eating and drinking than 
from all other causes put together. All classes of 
people eat too much yet are poorly nourished. Even 
the wealthy often succumb to starvation from lack 
of the tissue building element in food. The over- 
indulgence of food to gratify the palate is the great 
bane of humanity, and increases with the advance 
of civilization — ^with new discoveries of combina- 
tions pleasing to the taste. 

While diversity is right in all things not positively 
injurious or poisonous, as what appeals to one does 
not appeal to another, and the privilege of choice 
may be enjoyed with less expense when various 



38 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

luxuries are common, it requires a great amount of 
judgment to decide what is the most appropriate 
food, and the proper amount to nourish the system 
instead of devitalizing it. 

The civilized race has reached a stage where it 
must bring forth its highest and best reasoning 
power, to determine the place of greatest good in all 
of the habits of life, if it would continue its exist- 
ence. In its present condition it will destroy itself 
by excesses, as the people of the great nations of 
the past have done, and go down before the simple 
progressive races that have not yet spent their in- 
herent forces, else it will arouse for a mighty stride 
forward, ushering in the Millennial Race of accu- 
mulated vitality and established long life. 

As soon as it is realized that regulated habits and 
the protection of the living cell in food fulfills the 
demands of scientific living, that will prolong life 
and preserve youth, the new race may begin its per- 
manent growth without great sacrifice. Health, 
longevity, and happiness are the birthrights of man. 

It is a pleasure to gratify the appetite, and nature 
intends that food, as well as all things essential to 
life, should be enjoyed to the fullest extent possible, 
or to the degree of greatest good. Beyond this 
point of "enough" a destructive reaction produces 



REGULATION. 39 

suffering instead of joy, hence excesses should be 
avoided. When this condition is understood, and 
the desire to live becomes stronger than the desire 
for momentary gratification, the habit of over- 
indulgence is easily checked. 

The individual taste, if kept normal, would be 
a correct guide to what is needed by the system, but 
as it is usually much perverted the judgment must 
be educated to assist it. Occupation, climate, age, 
and many other conditions must be considered in 
selecting the most suitable food, but as a rule the 
family table should supply the required needs, pro- 
viding each one selects wisely from dishes set before 
him, and knows when he has enough. Special diet- 
ing is seldon necessary, and nothing is more dis- 
agreeable than for one member of a family to de- 
mand raw food, while another must have thorough 
cooking, and a third insists upon radical vegetarian- 
ism. Regulation and cooking to retain the living 
cell in food will prevent such unpleasantness, as 
Scientific Living includes the vital points of all other 
systems. 

Although the stomach must not be overloaded, 
one should not leave the table hungry, unless for a 
few times, while adjusting the digestive organs to 
the proper amount. 



40 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Under scientific living the taste will be gratified 
with more natural, delicate, and savory dishes that 
nourish, but do not gorge the system. When less 
food is consumed it is more thoroughly masticated 
and the sense of taste is cultivated until a greater 
pleasure is experienced than is possible in the hurry- 
ing and stuffing condition with its evil after effects. 
Taste is only in the mouth, hence one apple eaten 
slowly may be enjoyed more than a dozen swallowed 
rapidly. 

A morbid craving appetite cannot be satisfied — 
the more it has the more it wants. It may be sati- 
ated to the point of disgust where stopping is es- 
sential, but it is only the normal, regulated appetite 
that knows real satisfaction, hence no sacrifice is 
demanded for right living. Pampering the craving 
appetite, except to relieve a tension, as in the con- 
quest of fear, does not improve it, but it can be 
counteracted gradually by selecting vital food and 
arousing a desire to prolong life. 

FASTING. 

Because of the common admonition to "cease eat- 
ing while yet hungry" some writer has ingeniously 
pictured to the thousands who rise from every meal 



REGULATION. 41 

with an unsatisfied appetite, never being free from 
the companionship of hunger because of poverty, 
the great blessing it is to them, as it insures them 
at least "three score and ten years" of the same kind 
of happiness. 

This develops another phase of the question of 
regulation. There is a vast difference between go- 
ing hungry (fasting) from dire necessity and doing 
so voluntarily for a special purpose. The poverty- 
striken man is doubly starved. He not only lacks 
nutritious food, but he constantly gives himself 
auto-suggestions of hunger, suffering, and want, 
checking his natural supply of vital force from 
within, while the voluntary faster evokes thoughts 
of positiveness to the pangs of hunger, feeling that 
some great purpose is to be gained by the endur- 
ance, thus arousing a greater supply of subjective 
vital force which is sustaining. As this condition of 
mental buoyancy cannot be maintained indefinitely, 
it would be but little value to the poor man, for, as 
soon as his mind dropped from the psychological 
state, his own surplus nerve energy would be drawn 
upon to supply that not furnished by regular food. 
A strong person, who can perceive and command 
his inner forces, can maintain a normal weight, 
while fasting, for a longer time than one, like a 



42 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

consumptive, who is already reduced and does not 
know how to arouse subjective vitality. 

Long fasting is a dangerous method of curing 
diseased It is like getting rich by stopping one's in- 
come and using up the cash on hand. Notwith- 
standing this, one prominent reformer claims, that 
if Dr. Tanner could live forty days without food, 
in time all men might learn to live without eating 
at all. Strange the process by which some reason ! 

It has not occurred to him that long fasting is 
an endurance rather than a direct logical system 
of advance. A man can endure standing for a week 
with his thumbs tied, but it will not add many years 
to his natural life. 

Fasting for a meal, or for a day, or a fruit fast — 
eating only a little fruit for a few days — is of great 
value in acquiring self-control and in cleansing the 
system. The virtue of short fasting has always 
been known in religion, and it is from this extreme 
fasts have originated. The mind that must over- 
come the pangs of hunger is lifted in a way that 
commands infinite force, the body force not yet be- 
ing consumed. The sacrifice is endured as a re- 
ligious duty and the high purpose is sustaining. 

The same conditions are true in regard to sleep. 
Necessity, or pleasure, arouses the vitality for great 



REGULATION. 43 

endurance, but loss of sleep cannot be continuous 
without consuming more tissue than is replaced. 
The "four-hour-a-night-sleep-club" is the climax of 
fads, being eclipsed only by the "suicide club." 



44 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 



CHAPTER V. 

THE PURPOSE O^ REGUI.AR EATING. 

The purpose of regular eating is not entirely for 
the regulation of habits and nutrition derived from 
food. It is the natural method of keeping the life 
principle in action — it is a demand upon the forces 
of nature to supply vitality from within, which, 
blended with that generated from food, keeps the 
machinery of the body in motion, 

God and man are always partners. The subject- 
ive self and objective self must work together, to 
a certain extent, at least. The inner self does not 
do for man what he can do for himself, or assist 
him except in natural growth, without recognition 
or effort on his part. It furnishes as much, or more 
vitality, than is supplied by food, but does not do 
this until after he has fulfilled his duty by regular 
eating, when it is within his power to so do. 

Many instances are recorded where a very little 
food, when no more could be obtained, answered 



REGULAR EATING. 45 

the purpose of arousing the vitality to sustain the 
body. Mothers, who have given their portion of 
food to children, in times of famine, have been sud- 
denly relieved of the pangs of hunger. A noted 
woman relates a similar experience of her brother 
while en route to the gold fields of California, The 
caravan was attacked by Indians, most of the pas- 
sengers being slain. The few survivors wandered 
on as best they could. Her brother, after walking 
for two days, dinging to the handful of crackers 
he had left, overtook a ragged starving Englishman, 
who had made himself disagreeable at the beginning 
of the trip, by his pompous airs. The first thought 
of her brother was Vo ignore the fellow, as he could 
hardly think of sharing his morsel of food, but a 
nobler impulse prevailed, and he divided his frugal 
meal with the starving man. To his surprise he 
enjoyed the same feeling of satisfaction and strength 
that follows a hearty repast. 

Christ fed the multitude with loaves and fishes 
in this manner. It was not accidental with him. 
He knew the laws by which it could be done. 

It is of value to understand the use of latent 
forces in times of need, but one must not allow 
himself to be deceived into imagining that he can 
live the visible life indefinitely without food. The 



46 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

cells may be sustained from within for a time, but 
it is as impossible for the human tissue to be re- 
produced without material, as for a cotton factory 
to produce cloth without cotton. As the cells of the 
body are formulated or selected from the material 
side of life, one of the greatest questions is : What 
grade of tissue is desired? 

It is an established fact, that the flesh of high 
grade animals is better than that of scrubs. The 
difference in the grade of human tissue is even 
greater. Better blood means better tissue — more 
refined and vitalized cells. Birth, culture and all 
the conditions of life figure in this, but food exer- 
cises a greater influence than has been fully appre- 
ciated. A moment of thought reveals the differ- 
ence between the coarse flabby fibre produced by 
heavy meats, vegetable stews, crude half-cooked 
mixtures, or over-cooked dead foods, and the more 
delicate fibre that is the yield of a diet of ripe fruits, 
nuts, fresh vegetables daintily prepared, with liv- 
ing proteid cells from beans, peas, cereals, pure 
milk and cheese, eggs from grain fed hens, and 
other savory dishes. 

Each course of food for refining the tissue should 
express thought, vitality and culinary skill, without 
exhausting labor, imparting culture to the taste, as 



REGULAR EATING. 47 

well as to the mind and body, from the artistic 
manner of serving, in addition to its superior nutri- 
tive quality. To retain the living proteid cell for 
tissue building should be the first great aim in every 
meal. Blended with the tissue building food is 
always found enough of the other essential ele- 
ments for heat and energy. With water as a sol- 
vent, and fibrous vegetables and fruit for bulk, is 
associated plenty of mineral substance. Proper eat- 
ing is simple and natural. It has been made a bur- 
den through ignorance. 

It is not best to force a change of diet, as in using 
raw vegetables, or cereals, or leaving off meat sud- 
denly. As fast as the mind develops to higher de- 
sires, less of the heavy rich or dead foods are wanted 
and natural ones are craved until the place of great- 
est good is gained. 

The great danger from over-indulgence and lack 
of regulation is that the debris left in the system 
produces poisonous feeding ground for bacteria. 
The first effort of the bacteria is to consume the 
poison and free the system, but as they accumulate 
rapidly if poison is sufficient to sustain them, they 
clog the organs and excrete their own poison, pro- 
ducing inflammation and various complications. 

It is not uncommon for the bowels to become 



48 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

clogged and inactive for days at a time. A sewer, 
in the house, would not be used in such a condition, 
but most people continue eating just the same. Re- 
lief from cathartics weakens the bowels, besides 
passing off most of the nutritive element, hence the 
food is of no value. When the excretory organs 
are not free very little food should be taken, and 
that mostly fruit, fluids and whole or flaked wheat 
raw or simmered. The wheat supplies some of all 
kinds of nutriment, while the hull aids in relieving 
the bowels until a normal condition is restored. 

One hundred horses are said to have died in 
Chicago from overfeeding during a state of inaction 
for two days during Christmas time. Human be- 
ings have a greater power of endurance, but spe- 
cial days, like Christmas, should be celebrated by 
using more delicate viands for several meals, in- 
stead of by a greater quantity at one time, as is 
now customary. It is a misnomer to Christ to at- 
tempt to honor him by violating his highest law 
of regulation, through gluttony. There is but little 
difference between intemperate eating and intemper- 
ate drinking except in popularity. Both are followed 
by inevitable suffering, being sins. On the other 
hand, if the digestive system is not strong enough to 
digest and assimilate an ordinary meal, it is below 



REGULAR EATING. 49 

the natural state and should be aroused to better 
action instead of being pampered and the amount 
of food reduced, unless for a few days during the 
process of revivification. The normal action is 
easily aroused by exercise, deep breathing and con- 
centrated suggestions of strength upon retiring, sev- 
eral nights in succession. The hopeful, confident, 
reconstructive attitude of mind increases the vital 
current. 

The final object of retaining the living cell in food 
and regulating the amount to the point of plenty, 
yet avoiding the excesses that produce poison is 
to store cell vitality. It is like accumulation in the 
financial world. The less energy spent in counter- 
acting poison, or in caring for an excess of food, 
and the less energy drawn upon to supply shortage 
in nutrition, or to perform over-work, the greater 
will be the natural resources of life for emergen- 
cies — ^vitality accumulates in the cells — the life line 
is prolonged — ^the "tonicity of the involuntary or- 
gans is increased." In childhood the vital current 
and eliminating power of the system are strong. 
Under proper living they are increased for mature 
life, while misuse weakens both, keeping the life 
forces below the normal in old age. 

While man will never be free from the danger 



so SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

of accidents, or the tendency to negative disease 
conditions, his innate ability to resist or overcome 
adverses depends upon the stored forces, the per- 
fect reproduction of the cells, and the education of 
the cells to involuntary spontaneous action, by es- 
tablishing the objective life with the subjective life, 
through controlled habits, that become a part of the 
natural self. This cultivation of good habits en- 
ables the subjective forces to rally and protect the 
system from invasion, or danger, without the mind 
directly thinking about it, as the fingers of the 
skilled musician strike the right keys without con- 
scious thought. 

Regulated living is scientific, educating the cellu- 
lar system for long life. Without it the strongest 
appearing men often succumb to disease, or reverses, 
more easily than those of weaker constitutions who 
have been obliged to exercise more judgment — the 
enduring quality of the cells being lacking with 
those who live recklessly or without purpose. 



THE LIVING CELL IN FOOD. 51 



CHAPTER VI. 

THE UVING CEI.I, IN i^OOD. 

To the food naturalists belongs the credit of one 
of the greatest discoveries of the century — ^that the 
living cell must be retained in food to render it capa- 
ble of sustaining and reproducing the cells of the 
human body. Biologists know from the study of 
plant and animal histology that when a gradual heat 
is applied to the cell it shows signs of life by the 
movement of its nucleus in the protoplasm, and 
after passing the cell through intense heat or boiling 
it in water it no longer manifests life — it is dead. 

They also know that the mineral elements taken . 
from the soil by the plant become organic for use in 
the animal kingdom, and that through the applica- 
tion of high degrees of heat they are returned to the 
inorganic form, hence cannot be assimilated. 

Yet, with these facts so well established in the 
scientific world, it has only lately been realized that 
much of the sickness and premature age of the 



52 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

human family results from the attempt to nourish 
the system with dead disorganized matter, instead 
of with Hving substance. 

It is but natural that the first hygienic systems of 
diet founded upon these vital truths should be ex- 
treme, or radical, and this is the case. The idea of 
trying to live upon lifeless cells and being poisoned 
by their ash and liberated chemical substances is so 
terrible to the Naturalist that he eats all his food 
in the raw state and has induced so many others 
to do the same that the "raw food diet" is already 
of national reputatioa It is the opposite extreme 
of the "thorough cooking" that has been in popular 
favor since the advent of the germ theory, and the 
realization of the necessity of opening the cells of 
some kinds of food to release the nutrition. 

As all of these systems contain qualities that are 
vital in prolonging life the attempt to save the living 
cell and chemical organisation, and at the same time 
destroy active bacteria, and render all food palator- 
ble and serviceable, which is not possible with an 
entire raw diet, has led to another discovery by 
which food may be cooked to retain the living cell in 
its highest degree of life activity, thereby combining 
the essential qualities of all hygienic theories in one 
simple, practical, scientific system of living, that 



THE LIVING CELL IN FOOD. 53 

may be adopted in any family, as well as in public 
institutions, supplying a universal demand for sus- 
taining health and prolonging the term of human 
Ufe. 

THE CKI^L STRUCTURE. 

The recognition of the importance of the "living 
cell" is in keeping with the development of science. 
It is also in keeping with the growth of the desire 
to perpetuate life and establish youth, as no special 
eflfort would be made to retain the cells of food in 
a vital state until a desire for more than than "mere 
existence" and the gratification of taste dominates 
the mind. It is not a part of nature's economy that 
the secrets of higher civilization be given to primi- 
tive races. 

It was not until after the invention of the com- 
pound microscope that the existence of the cells 
compojing animal and vegetable tissue was known. 
In 1835 Johannes Muller discovered that the cells 
of the animal resembled those of the plant. Soon 
afterwards Robert Brown and others discovered 
the nuclei in plant cells. From this time many the- 
ories were advanced regarding the nature and 
growth of cells until it was established that all cells 
were much alike, thus "the unity of life" of all 



54 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

organized beings and living things, has since been 
generally accepted by standard Histologists. 

Shultz defines a cell as " a nucleated mass of pro- 
toplasm, with or without an investing membrane." 

The cell contains in its protoplasm : 

1. Coloring matter — green (chlorophyll). 

2. Starch — ^which is formed within chlorophyll 
grains during sunlight. 

3. Oil globules. 

4. Proteine chrystals (living substance)'. 

5. Albumoid grains (living substance). 

6. Cell sap — ^water with minerals. 

In many cells not only the nucleated protoplasm 
but the whole cell contents may disappear under mis- 
use, leaving only the cellulose wall fiilled with air. 
In diseased conditions and old age many cells become 
deficient in protoplasm then, without reproducing 
themselves, cease to exist entirely, leaving the body 
feeble and shriveled, or a plant brittle and dry. Old 
age is nothing but the lack of cells to do the work 
and keep the body free from poison, hardening de- 
posits, and fatty tissue. 

While a variety of elements in each cell is essen- 
tial, in some the starch grains predominate, in others 
fat globules are more abundant, while in others still 
proteid for tissue building is the most marked char- 



THE LIVING CELL IN FOOD. 55 

acteristic. This predominance depends upon the 
use of the cell and the same kind of a cell must be 
selected for similar use in the human body. 

The best authorities agree that the animal cell is a 
tiny, delicate living individual, not entirely inde- 
pendent, yet performing all of the functions of the 
body of which it is a part within itself. 

1. It contracts like the muscles. 

2. It is sensitive and irritable like the nerves. 

3. It is receptive and assimilative like the diges- 
tive system. 

4. Its protoplasm undergoes incessant destructive 
and constructive changes — ^the waste must be uti- 
lized in other ways or be disposed of — as in respi- 
ration, secretion, and the excretory apparatuses. 

5. It is reproductive — its nuclei are fertilised by 
the living nuclei of cells of food taken for nourish- 
ment, thus quickening and multiplying to sustain 
the growth and repair of the body. 

6. It dies or disintegrates and passes into atomic 
life for other purposes, in case of disease or lack of 
nourishment to sustain it for its proper maturity, or 
lack of fertilization by living nuclei of food cells, 
it dies before it reproduces itself. In extreme ex- 
haustion from excesses many cells die before the 
new growth of cells can fill their places resulting 



56 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

in nervous prostration that can only be corrected by 
long rest during which the cells develop strength. 

The vegetable cell is very similar in character to 
that of the animal — ^its action sustaining the growth 
of the plant. The vegetable cell has the cellulose 
covering which is a non-conductor of heat, and as 
it contracts upon coming in contact with heat it pro- 
tects the contents of the cell for a short time, while 
the animal cell is without an investing membrane, 
permitting the outer cells of a piece of meat to be 
instantly seared and destroyed by high degrees of 
heat, however, this process protects the inner cells 
unless the same degree of heat is allowed to pene- 
trate to the interior. 

The vegetable cell creates or organizes proteid, or 
the tissue building part of food, as well as the 
mineral elements used in growth, from inorganic 
chemical substances of the cell or atomic life, but all 
biologists agree that the animal cell, except the plant- 
animal yeast germ or torula, which in a formless 
state is found in the ferments of the digestive fluids, 
does not possess this power. It must acquire its pro- 
teid, or nucleated fertilizing protoplasm as well as 
its mineral elements already constructed or organised 
from other forms of animal life or from the vege- 
table kingdom, hence the great necessity of the cells 
of food containing the proteid and chemical ele- 



THE LIVING CELL IN FOOD. 57 

ment being provided in a perfect living state else 
the work of nature is undone and the system suffers 
for the proper nutriment to reproduce its tissues, 
even though it may have plenty of the kind of food 
for heat and energy to maintain action for some 
time. As the working energy is easily maintained 
during youth, man has been deceived regarding cell 
nourishment. 

The dead nuclei of the cells used as food can no 
more rally and fulfill the duties of reproduction and 
growth to assist or replace the exhausted body cells 
than lifeless pollen can fertilize the blossom of the 
apple, or the germ of a hard boiled egg or the seed 
of a flower that has been baked, can be rallied to 
life action. 

It must be kept in mind that the life element in 
the cell is manifest in more than one way. The first 
and most vital is that of the living nuclei, or the re- 
producing power, possessed by all forms of life. 
A cell may grow and work the same as may a man, 
but die without issue to perpetuate its kiiid, if the 
conditions for quickening the Divine spark are lack- 
ing. The living substance (or nuclei) predominat- 
ing in the cells of the tissue building part of food 
is especially intended to aid in cell reproduction for 
body growth and repair of tissue. 

Another form of life is that of organic mineral 



58 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

elements which are used by the cells in their own 
construction, and that of the intercellular tissue of 
bone and muscle, as well as in the various kinds of 
work that must be done in the body, as in the forma- 
tion of all of the digestive juices, fluids, and anti- 
toxins for protecting the system against poison. 

These mineral elements abound in all food sub- 
stances, even in the nucleated cells. 

Vegetable cells take these elements from the soil, 
atmosphere and water, organizing them into com- 
pounds suited to the uses of animal life. The ani- 
mal cell cannot do this. When these compounds 
are subjected to the degree of heat required for 
boiling, their organic nature is destroyed and they 
again become inorganic. The animal* system can- 
not assimilate or use inorganic elements, hence they 
remain as poison in the blood until they can be 
eliminated. For instance, an apple has potash, lime, 
and magnesia, a peach abounds in iron, and an 
onion contains sulphur, all of which are in form to 
be appropriated by the body cells, but if taken in 
inorganic form as iron in medicine, or from sub- 
stances that have been boiled, they are practically 
useless. 

Still another form of life is that of the fully or- 
ganized cell itself. As has already been shown it is 



THE LIVING CELL IN FOOD. 59 

a complex, wonderfully formed structure with its 
different elements brought into a state ready for 
action. When this organization is dissolved Na- 
ture's effort to assist man is almost entirely lost. 

The cell organization of all life being similar, it is 
interchangeable, yet there is no doubt an adaptation 
— some change in its nature in the lymphatic glands 
distinguishing a human cell from an animal cell, that 
is beyond man's discernment, however, the cells .of 
a human body serve as food for an animal as truly 
as those of an animal or vegetable serve as food for 
man. 

The nucleus of the cell — one, two, or even a 
greater number — is the life germ of the cell and 
thrives in its proper element, under the right condi- 
tions the same as the germ in a grain of wheat 
thrives in the proper soil. Many theorists advocate 
the germ of seeds as the most vital food because of 
its generative qualities, but it has no greater value 
than the cell life surrounding it, which is rich in 
phosphorus and proteid, as the individual germ is 
not quickened at all by the process of digestion — in 
fact, it is killed, as it could only reproduce its kind — 
wheat reproduces wheat, or the germ of the egg 
produces a chick under right conditions. Its indi- 
viduality is lost when it is used as food, but the 



6o SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

individuality of the cells composing it as a part of 
the kernel is preserved providing the nuclei are not 
killed by excessive heat. As life can never be en- 
tirely destroyed, when the cell is killed or disinte- 
grates it becomes atomic life, or unorganic substance 
ready to be again taken up by vegetation and some 
phases of animal action and passed through another 
cycle of existence, or it may even be reduced to the 
finer essence of Infinite mind before being again 
condensed into matter or brought into organic form. 



IMPORTANCE OF PROTEID. 6i 



CHAPTER VII. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF PROTEID. 

Food serves three great purposes in the physical 
body and is divided into three general classes so far 
as digestive nutriments are concerned. 

1 . The proteid or body building element, as found 
in eggs, meat, nuts, milk, cheese, cereals, beans, 
peas, etc. 

2. The fat or reserve force element, as found in 
fat of meat, vegetable oils, butter, etc. 

3. The carbohydrates or heat and energy produc- 
ing element as found in starch foods, like potatoes 
and rice, also in the sugar and starch of cereals, 
fresh vegetables and fruit. 

Other essential elements are present in all food, as 
mineral matter, water, and refuse which will be 
considered later, but at present only the great value 
of the proteid, or tissue building element is to be 
established, as no other kind of svhstance except a 



62 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

small amount of proteid, that is reorganised by the 
constructive ferments, can take its place. Both fat 
and proteid may be burned or oxidized in the sys- 
tem to produce energy if the carbohydrates are lack- 
ing. Carbohydrates and proteid may produce fat 
if not exhausted in energy, but neither fat nor carbo- 
hydrates can be used to reproduce the body cells, 
hence the necessity of intelligently selecting enough 
of the proteid foods and protecting this element 
from being destroyed by excessive heat, as it is the 
OfUy source of prepared material to sufficiently re- 
construct the body cells to prevent the first encroach- 
ment of old age. 

Many other conditions are sustaining and pro- 
tective to a degree, as when fat is stored and of a 
healthy quality it is drawn upon in cases of emer- 
gency for heat or energy that otherwise must be 
supplied from the latent forces of the body cells, 
but an increase in fat is not always an indication of 
health and strength of the real physical tissues or 
body substance. In fact the amount of fat often 
becomes excessive in old age and diseased conditions 
after the body cells are too weak to prevent its 
accumulation. 

This is because the cells are not properly nour- 
ished for reproduction, and the food that should be 



IMPORTANCE OF PROTfilD. 63 

used for this purpose, being devitalized or dead 
from the heat of cooking must be passed off as 
refuse, be stored as fat, or be oxidized for energy 
and heat, all of which tends to overwork the con- 
structive ferments and the cells that are already 
weakened. An increase in fat indicates health only 
when the cells are perfectly sustained and repro^ 
duced. While the lymphatic temperament which 
takes things easy is subject to excessive fat, the 
opposite extreme is seen with the nervous tempera- 
ment, where incessant mental or physical action 
causes thinness, as the surplus energy is used, in- 
stead of being allowed to accumulate as fat. Health 
cannot be maintained unless the vitality of the cells 
enables them to regulate the energy instead of being 
ruled by it. Many people are living entirely beyond 
their capacity, while others are stupid and plod- 
ding from a clogged and burdensome physical con- 
dition. When the value of the proteid and organ- 
ized chemical elements in food is realized and the 
amount of food is better proportioned to sustain 
its natural purposes, the life will be more perfectly 
balanced, maintaining the freshness of youth for 
a much longer time than is possible with the present 
conditions of extremes and friction. 
The body cells utilize the water, and some of the 



64 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

organized chemical substances in constructing the 
intercellular tissue of both muscle and bone in which 
the cells are imbedded, but the cells themselves upon 
which all life action depends can only be quickened 
to reproduce themselves or multiply in natural 
growth when nourished by the ^'living mass of pro- 
toplasm" or nucleated proteid cells— the only sub- 
stance endowed with organized life. 

Blaisdell says many of the cells of the body live 
only for a few hours, especially those of the lining 
membrane of the intestines, while others, as those of 
the bones, exist for several years. All authorities 
agree that in a few years' time, from five to seven 
years as the longest estimate, every atom of the 
human body is entirely changed — new cells replace 
the old ones. As this is the case, "perpetual youth," 
or at least the retaining of youth for many years, 
is not a mysterious or unnatural condition. It may 
be enjoyed by all who use good judgment in nourish- 
ing the cells of the body, avoid excesses which ex- 
haust them, and the indulgence of thoughts that im- 
press diseases and age upon them. The living pro- 
teid element in food is essential to long life, but 
qualities of mind and regulated activities must go 
with It — "we do not live by meat alone.*' 



WHY PEOPLE CAN LIVE. 65 



CHAPTER Vni. 

WHY PEOPI.E CAN UVE AT AIX. 

When it is realized that the proteid, or body- 
building foods, as meats, eggs, cereals, bread, beans, 
peas, etc., are usually the most thoroughly cooked 
foods, the question naturally arises : How is it that 
anyone is alive, and that animals do not live for- 
ever ? This is easily answered : 

In every phase of life nature provides for its 
preservation intuitively to a certain extent, imtil the 
reason develops to decide the best courses to pur- 
sue to sustain it intelligently, as compulsory sleep 
preventing complete destruction from dissipation, 
regular hours and days of labor broken by rqst, 
checking over-ruling ambition and reverting the 
mind to the Great Unknown Power beyond it ; pas- 
sions, inclinations, appetites and tastes are for the 
purpose of perpetuating the race and the individual, 
but beyond this point of absolute necessity to pre- 



66 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

vent obliteration from ignorant mistakes man is 
left to discover the place of ''greatest good" in all 
things for himself. This effort is life — it is educa- 
tion and development. Estimating the place of 
greatest good is the riddle the Sphynx is always pro- 
pounding, and if man cannot solve it he is devoured 
— consumed by his own excesses. 

In early times the cell life of the body was quite 
perfectly sustained, so far as nourishment was con- 
cerned, intuitively, as it is at present with animals, 
all food being eaten raw. The bread of our early 
ancestors was made into cakes and dried instead of 
being baked; meat, herbs, vegetables, fruit, milk, 
nuts, honey and many other things were served in 
the natural state, and the appetite being less culti- 
vated and less perverted, was satisfied by this sim- 
ple diet. It was not uncommon for man to live five 
hundred or even nine hundred years without the 
other qualifications essential for the best develop- 
ment, to sustain youth and longevity. The normal 
tenm of human life was originally long, but like 
many intuitive qualities its secret of perpetuation 
not being understood, the ability to live was gradti^ 
ally lost through ignorant mistakes, each succeeding 
generation becoming more involved in the conditions 
inducing old age, disease and early death until the 



WHY PEOPLE CAN LIVE. 67 

present time, when decline begins at forty or fifty 
years. 

During all this time, however, the mind of man 
has been developing until it is becoming possible 
for him to perceive, or discover, the laws of life and 
re-establish upon an intelligent basis what has been 
lost through ignorance. This knowledge of why 
and how — the use of reason and judgment — ^places 
man above the animal. Even though the animal, at 
present is better nourished than man, and enjoys 
better health, it cannot intelligently regulate its 
life, hold itself positive to disintegrating forces, 
or change its inheritance from intuitive channels, as 
man may do if he lives in harmony with his knowl- 
edge of what will sustain and accumulate vitality. 
The animal can live only within its natural cycle 
of existence. Man is not limited to a definite cycle 
except as the race belief limits him to "three-score- 
years and ten," but he does not even do justice 
to himself, or his God, in this short life, so falls 
very far from his great possibilities. 

Under the advent of cooking, although the nour- 
ishment of the body has gradually become more 
impaired with the complications of civilization, and 
the term of life has been shortened from five hun- 
dred years to that of sixty, nature still demands 



68 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

that many kinds of food be used in the natural 
state, and that others be but slightly cooked, as "the 
egg that is cooked on one side," meat that is served 
"rare," and bread that is baked so quickly it is only 
heated through by the time it is coagulated. But- 
ter, milk, and cheese are seldom injured by heat. 

It does not require much food to sustain the tis- 
sues if it is full of life and vitality, even though all 
the cells of the body are changed, or replaced, by 
new ones in a few years' time, thus people have lived 
all through the ages upon the cells of food that have 
escaped being devitalized by cooking, even though 
they have not been strong and healthy as they would 
have been with better nourishment. 

The amount of natural food in use at the present 
time, although the value of the living cell is not 
known, would sustain health much more perfectly 
were it not for the immense amount of useless and 
dead substance that must be disposed of by the 
system in its already weakened state. All manner 
of food and drink is indulged to gratify the taste 
without thought of the purpose to be served or the 
harm that may result. No other machine is so 
misused as the human machine. It is expected 
to produce healthy living tissue when clogged with 
every conceivable kind of stuff. In gratifying the 



WHY PEOPLE CAN LIVK 69 

depraved appetite the cells of the organs that must 
sustain the mechanism of the body are exhausted 
by overwork, and a physician must be called upon 
to diet the patient — ^to exercise self-control for him. 
Even from a selfish standpoint of dissipation the 
first consideration should be to sustain the organs 
that must dispose of the surplus food enjoyed, by 
living cells, as a strong man can endure more dissi- 
pation of any kind than a weakly one. 

Nature always mixes dross with gold. Every 
article of diet has a large per cent, of refuse or use- 
less substance that in a healthy digestive system is 
passed off without harm. The wonderful power the 
digestive organs possess to free the system of refuse 
is seen in cases where men and boys swallow 
jack-knives, pennies, marbles, or even ground glass 
in public exhibitions. Such a diet is not conducive 
to long life, but does not cause so much trouble as 
might be imagined — ^perhaps not so much as de- 
vitalized food that the system attempts to utilize 
but cannot. 

It is right to gratify the taste, and if the cells 
of the body are well nourished, nature is very leni- 
ent. The dieticians who claim that every morsel 
of food eaten but not utilized acts as poison are 
extreme. Such may be the case if the system is 



70 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

already dogged or too weak to permit the action 
of the excretory organ, but otherwise an occasional 
immoderate or unwise indulgence is easily counter- 
acted; however, dissipations of .any kind cannot be 
"demonstrated over" continuously. Pain is a voice 
of warning that mistakes are being made. A normal 
appetite does not crave excesses although the judg- 
ment may often be at a loss as to what is best, 
hence nature gives ample opportunity for correc- 
tion but cannot be ignored with safety. 

The demands of civilization can no more be satis- 
fied with an entirely primitive diet than the aesthetic 
taste can be cast aside, reverting modern fashions 
in dress to the inartistic blanket and skins of ani- 
mals, or supplanting modem dwelling by tents and 
wigwams. Such a state of affairs would undo the 
work of evolution. Because extremes and mistakes 
have caused suffering from any advances of civili- 
zation, it is no indication that civilization is unde- 
sirable. Progression is the constant purpose of 
nature, but the place of "greatest good" must al- 
ways be the guide. Progression cannot be stopped, 
but it IS hindered as much by rushing past the place 
of "greatest good" as in failing to reach its highest 
standard. 



WHY PEOPLE CAN LIVE. 71 

Although cooking has become gradually compli- 
cated, until it is a rank evil in some ways, when it 
is carelessly done, yet, as so many forms of food are 
useless, or unpalatable without it, it is evident that 
intelligent cooking is a part of nature's plan for 
human nourishment to distinguish man from the 
beast, and affords one of the most effective means 
of pleasure and action, as well as a means of devel- 
oping reason, judgment and self-control, so essential 
in prolonging life and gaining the highest human 
destiny. 

Nature furnishes a kind of action for the culti- 
vation of both brain and body cells, as a part of 
objective growth, to sustain every high purpose or 
accomplishment. Regulated cooking means more 
than nourishment. It is educative. The greatest 
purpose of eating is not only to live but to live 
indefinitely. The best possible judgment is required 
even in the business world to prevent loss or friction 
in the future, by making present transactions with 
later contingencies always in view. It requires 
thought, care and knowledge, instead of haphazard 
living, that each meal in the day may tend to pro- 
long life, as well as to gratify the taste and yield 
satisfaction^ 



yz SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

It IS a pleasure, not a sacrifice, to replace useless, 
lifeless, injurious substances with revivifying vital- 
ized food, even though it is possible to eke out an 
ordinary term of existence under the present condi- 
tions of living. 



THE OBJECT IN COOKING. 73 



CHAPTER IX. 

TH^ OBJECT IN COOKING. 

The object in cooking food is : 

1. To soften the cellulose covering of the cell 
wall in vegetables, as beans and peas, and also to 
soften the fibrin of meats. 

2. To open the cells, especially those in which 
starch predominates. 

3. To slightly and quickly coagulate albuminoids, 
as white of egg, casein of milk, or gluten of cere- 
als, or to dissolve other forms, as that of gelatine 
and legumin of beans. 

4. To destroy active bacteria. 

5. To free the fat globule that it may blend with 
other foods. 

6. To render digestion as easy as possible. 

7. To increase the flavor and the possibility of 
combinations to gratify the palate and aesthetic 
tastes. 

8. To raise the food cells to the temperature of 
the body, and separate the proteid cells from other 



74 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

combinations, that they may be more quickly utilized 
by the human system. 

While many kinds of food are called tissue build- 
ing foods, the proteid element is found in company 
with the starch grains, and in other kinds of combi- 
nations, hence must be liberated for quick digestion, 
and at the same time kept buoyant with life. Even 
from a point of digestibility all authorities upon 
nutrition agree that boiling and baking, as done at 
present, injure one part of the food, at the same 
time another part is supposed to be improved, hence 
if cooking is not at fault nature must be at fault in 
its combinations. Ellen H. Richards and S. Maria 
Elliott, in "The Chemistry of Cooking," express 
the general effects of cooking upon food, as fol- 
lows : 

"Starchy foods are made more soluble by long 
cooking at moderate temperature. Nitrogenous 
foods, the animal and vegetable albumens'* (includ- 
ii^g Gggs and casein of milk) "are made less solu- 
ble by heat; the albuminoids" (bones, cartilages and 
connective tissue) "are more soluble. Fats are 
readily absorbed in their natural condition, but are 
decomposed at a very high temperature and their 
products become irritants." 

From this it is apparent that the first consideration 



THE OBJECT IN COOKING. 75 

to improve cooking, from any standpoint, must be to 
fulfill the demands of all of the different kinds of 
nutrients found in combination, as it is not policy 
to destroy one part of food to render another part 
serviceable. 

Without regard to this fact, to say nothing of the 
life of the cells of which food is composed, all kinds 
have been boiled at 212'*^ of heat, or baked, or fried 
hard and long at a much higher temperature, because 
but few have realized the harm done or thought of 
the possibility of cooking otherwise. At the same 
time each discovery in the means of cooking has 
been made from a special effort to intensify heat 
that cooking may be more rapid. If great heat 
devitalized food, changing its chemical basis, and 
rendering a large part of it more indigestible, be- 
sides being less palatable, than that cooked in the 
slow ovens of the olden times, why the eagerness to 
pursue such a mistaken course? Only ignorance, 
and the excessive energy of the race, tending always 
to do more in less time, without regard for life and 
health, is the answer. 

The question of the best nourishment can never 
be solved by the application of greater heat, although 
improved means makes it possible to more easily 
regulate and produce heat. 



*j(^ SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

A few experiments as to the degree of heat re- 
quired, to render starch soluble and to coagulate 
albumen, will overcome the first great difficulty of 
injuring one kind of element while improving an- 
other. The low degree of heat required to make 
these changes has long been known to science, but 
has not been made practical in cooking. 

The starch granule can be dissolved or cooked at 
a temperature as low as i6o** F., if applied for some 
time, or 200"* more quickly. It is then easily changed 
by the saliva, pancreatic juice and serum of the 
blood into dextrine, or grape sugar, which is oxi- 
dized or burned in the body to create heat and 
energy, or is stored as fat. Cereal grains must be 
heated to a much higher degree than that of boiling 
from 300** to 500°, to convert starch into grape 
sugar in such commercial products as grape-nuts, 
toasted flakes, etc. ; hence, every proteid cell, as well 
as the chemical organization, is destroyed, rendering 
the food valueless for tissue building, although it 
is serviceable for energy and reserve force of fat. 

Cellulose or the structure of the cell walls of dry 
foods is softened by heat being gradually raised to 
180*, or even 205*, but is hardened or toughened by 
boiling, as it contracts at first to protect the cell 
contents, after which it only yields to opening when 



THE OBJECT IN COOKING, TJ 

the nuclei are dead from long cooking. Because of 
the covering, the cells of cereals are not destroyed 
by heat so quickly as those of meat, milk, eggs, and 
cheese. 

The albumen of cells of soft foods like the white 
of eggs will coagulate at 150**. 

The fibrin of meat softens at 180*. 

All combinations in cooking as thickening gravies, 
creams, and custards may be made as soon as starch 
and albumen are affected, thus making it possible 
to gratify the taste for variety without boiling the 
combination, simmering being several degrees below 
boiling temperature. 

As all the necessary changes in food rendering it 
thoroughly cooked take place below 212*, or the 
boiling point, it is needless to kill the fertilizing nu- 
clei of the cells, change the chemical nature, or to 
toughen 6ne part of the food while making another 
soluble by intense heat. Less heat instead of more 
heat is what is needed. The starch and fat bound 
closely in the same kernel of grain with the proteid 
or body building element may be made digestible 
and palatable in the temperature best suited to the 
most vital action of the nuclei of the cells. 

Experiments with bacteria prove that another 
great object of cooking may be attained as well with 



78 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

a moderate degree of heat as with that required for 
boiling. Fully developed animals or vegetables soon 
cease to live if exposed to greater heat than that re- 
quired for natural propagation of growth. The 
germ of a seed or of an egg will survive a much 
greater amount of heat than can be endured by the 
plant or the chick after it has gained individual ex- 
istence. The torula, or yeast germ, is one of the 
lowest forms of life that must be overcome in rela- 
tion with food. Huxley says it is a plant instead of 
an animal as it has a cellulose coat like the vegetable 
and possesses the power to cofistruct its own proteid, 
which an animal cell cannot do; however, it has 
some of the qualities of an animal. It also multi- 
plies rapidly and is useful in raising light bread and 
for other purposes. It is rendered inactive for a 
time at a temperature of 140**, but requires 160** to 
kill it entirely. 

The amoeba, or white corpuscle of the blood, is 
another much feared germ. It is the lowest form of 
animal life. It exists in all human blood to a greater 
or less extent, but the vegetarians consider it is 
greatly multiplied by being introduced into the sys- 
tem with meat if it has not been intensely heated, or 
thoroughly cooked. This is a needless fear as the 
amoebae are destroyed at the same temperature as 
the yeast germ — ^that of 160*. 



THE OBJECT IN COOKING. 79 

The numerous disease bacteria causing alarm are 
infinitesimal forms of active animal life. They thrive 
best at a temperature of 120**, but are entirely killed 
at 160**, however, the spore of many bacteria are not 
killed even by boiling. The individual life, no mat- 
ter how minute, cannot survive in very great heat, 
but if the spore opens in a healthy system the pro- 
tecting cells devour it before it can multiply. 

The cell of food is not an independent animal or 
plant. While it has life and many forms of action 
as is essential in growth its nuclei are more like 
the spore of plants or bacteria, holding life in latency 
until conditions are right for it to quicken. This* 
life principle is not destroyed by heat until it is 
raised to a temperature of 212"*, or the boiling point 
long enough to heat through the cell wall. Because 
of this it is possible to destroy all active bacteria 
without killing the nucleus of the proteid cell, thus 
all the demands for cooking food may be fulfilled, at 
the same time retaining the living element of the cell 
for tissue building, by cooking with heat between 
180** and 205®, or just below the boiling point. This 
is the place of "greatest good" in the application of 
heat to food and the next question arising is : How 
is It to be accomplished most directly ? ^ 



8o SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 



CHAPTER X. 

TH^ SCIENTIFIC APPUCATION 0!^ HEAT. 

It is a well known fact that different degrees of 
heat applied to all substances produce entirely dif- 
ferent substances. Some changes are for the bet- 
ter, or are harmless, while other products are in- 
jurious. Eugene Christian says, "All foods raised 
to a temperature beyond that of the boiling point 
are in process of being changed into ash, which is 
poison in proportion to the amount of heat applied," 
thus a slice of bread toasted crisp all the way through 
only requires a little more heat to reduce it to ashes, 
being worse than valueless as food. Yet the ash, 
like most poisons, produces a craving for more of it, 
as is apparent from the demand for well-browned 
food of all kinds. When vegetables or fruits are 
boiled, as already explained, the mineral elements 
which nature has prepared in exact proportion for 
the best purposes are changed and often set en- 
tirely free from their combinations, undoing the 



\ 



APPLICATION OF HEAT. 8i 

work of nature. Some materials as sugar, fats, and 
starch, having no proteid or but very little, require 
a higher degree of heat than that of boiling to injure 
them for food or to greatly change their com- 
position ;.hence, for convenience, they may be boiled 
or raised to that degree of temperature for many 
purposes, however, sugar is injured by acid of fruit 
in boiling with it, and at 400** of heat loses most of 
its sweet taste, becoming caramel, which is often 
used by cooks as a brown coloring; starch exposed 
to the same temperature becomes grape sugar and 
fats change into fatty acids that are injurious to 
the mucous membrane of the digestive organs. Be- 
cause of this unstable condition of chemical prop- 
erties of food when acted upon by heat, each im- 
provement in the methods of intensifying heat 
makes a more imperative demand that it should be 
scientifically applied for hygienic cooking. 

Besides the many chemical changes to be consid- 
ered in all elements subjected to heat it must not 
be forgotten that the body building cells in food are 
delicate, sensitive, living things that may be im- 
paired or killed, hence must be treated with care and 
thought amounting to respect of life. 

When heat is applied to food it should be in a 
systematic manner, and be kept constant, or be 



82 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

changed gradually to avoid shocks after the cell is 
once revivified by the warmth. A simmering pot 
of food loses much of its flavor if its liquor is re- 
plenished by a supply of cold water instead of with 
water of the same temperature. Its nutritive value 
is also decreased, as the shock is weakening to the 
cells. The chick in an egg develops more perfectly 
and has a greater power of endurance, or tenacity 
to life, when the temperature is kept uniform than if 
exposed to extremes of heat and cold. The nuclei 
of the cells should have as favorable conditions be- 
fore quickening or being quickened to reproduce the 
cells of human tissue, hence the next essential in 
scientific cooking after a low degree of heat is estab- 
lished, is that of steady heat that can be easily and 
perfectly controlled. 

Food materials being of different natures — ^the 
vegetable cell being invested with a cellulose coat 
while the animal cell is without it — and the effect 
of combinations being varied for nutritive value, 
taste, appearance, and convenience, heat cannot be 
applied in the same manner to all kinds of sub- 
stances. The whole kernels of grain or dry seeds 
that have lost moisture for preservation must regain 
it slowly by long soaking and be gently raised to the 
desired temperature to soften the cellulose covering 
without toughening it, as in boiling, while meat 



APPLICATION OF HEAT. 83 

must have the outer cells seared and sacrificed by 
quick intense heat to prevent the escape of the juices 
of the interior cells during the process of slow cook- 
ing, unless soup is being made. Bread and pastry, 
to retain the shape by forming a crust, as well as 
to arouse the action of the enclosed gases, must be 
subjected to quite a high degree of heat at first until 
the inside is heated throi!gh and raised to the point 
of coagulation, which is not quite to the boiling 
point, after which the temperature is lowered for 
slow, steady baking. The crust is as valueless for 
nutrition as the skin of an apple, but the enclosed 
cells are perfect in vitality, so far as the life princi- 
ple is concerned, even though some combina- 
tions of pastry are not easily digested. Ground or 
broken kernels of grain, as cereals, including rice, 
must be dropped into water at the full boiling point, 
as the cold cereals lower the temperature immedi- 
ately, allowing the gluten to dissolve in the water 
unless it coagulates quickly. After the first coagu- 
lation, by slight simmering, the cooking must be 
slow and steady. Ripe fruits and green vegetables 
may be softened and cooked, without being boiled 
at 200**, fruits being sweetened when soft, but most 
of them serve a better purpose and are more 
palatable in the natural state. 

Some of the present cooking already fulfills the 



84 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

requirements of scientific living, but it is more 
accidental than intentional. With all good cooks 
food is known to be more savory if slowly sim- 
mered or roasted, while Ralston and other standard 
authorities upon hygienic cooking, as Sarah Tyson 
Rorer, in the "Ladies' Home Journal," recognize 
the value of the living cell and sound a warning 
note against cooking foofl until it is dead. The 
Ralston Health Club also advocates baking light 
bread two hours, hence, from necessity, the heat 
must be low enough to save the life of the nuclei of 
the cells within the loaves. Thus some of the most 
stable articles of diet are saved from the devitalizing 
effect of high degrees of heat by those who follow 
the system, besides it is quite common to cook many 
things in a double boiler to prevent burning. 

The biscuit had always been condemned by hy- 
gienists, but although not so healthful as unfired 
or light bread, it serves a purpose as a quickly pre- 
pared food, for emergencies. The inside coagulates 
at about 200 **, and as it is the custom of the 
careful housewife to open the oven door at this 
stage, allowing the biscuits to stand in the heat a few 
minutes longer to finish baking, all of the laws of 
cooking are fulfilled, thus many instances might be 
given where the vitality of food is retained in the 



APPLICATION OF HEAT. 85 

present cooking, even though it may easily be lost in 
the same food by carelessness. By pains and knowl- 
edge every article of diet may be wholesome and 
nourishing instead of a large part of each day's 
rations being waste, leaving the system depleted 
in the effort- to cast it off. 

The following quotation from "The Chemistry of 
Cooking," etc., also shows that the flavor of food is 
greatly enhanced by thought, care and low degree 
of heat, Ellen H. Richards says, "The chemistry of 
cooking is therefore largely the chemistry of flavor 
production — ^the application of heat to food material 
in such a way as to bring about the right changes 
and only these. 

"The flavor produced by cooking correctly done, 
will be delicate and unobstructive. Usually, except 
for broiled meats, a low heat applied for a long 
time, with the use of closed cooking vessels, develops 
the best flavors, while quick cooking, which neces- 
sitates high temperature, robs the fine products of 
nature's laboratory of their choicest elements. Pres- 
ent American cooking especially sins in this respect, 
either the food is insipid from lack of flavor or 
crudely seasoned at the last moment. 

"The secret of our grandmother's cooking lay not 
solely in the brick oven — in the low steady heat it 



86 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

furnishes — but in the care, thought and infinite pains 
they put into the preparation of their simple foods. 
Compared with these the one-minute cereals and the 
lightning pudding mixtures of the present day are 
insipid or tasteless." 

Numerous authorities might be given to sustain 
the fact that cooking at a low temperature is not out 
of harmony with the best hygienic systems of diet, 
even though the great value of the living cell and 
chemical composition has not been realized in most 
cases. The new truth can be easily adapted to 
families or health clubs and societies without re- 
versing the regimen already established and proven 
of inestimable value, while an entire raw food diet 
radically undoes centuries of development. 

It is possible, by care and effort, to fulfill the 
requirements of slow even heat, in the ordinary 
way of simmering, but it is not practical as labor is 
increased from constant watching, where every ad- 
vance should lighten the labor, at the same time 
rendering greater service to humanity. Many and 
varied experiments have been made to attain the 
best results with the least labor. It has been dis- 
covered that all kinds of food that have usually 
been subjected to boiling may be cooked at a tem- 
perature of about 200*", in a vessel placed in 
boiling water with a very slight steam escape — a 



APPLICATION OF HEAT. 87 

single or triple double boiler with a loose fitting 
cover — in just a trifle longer time than is required 
by hard boiling. The heat of the boiling water 
never raises above 212** at the common altitude 
unless steam is compressed. The first gentle bub- 
bles — the condition known as simmering — occur 
from 200° to 205°. Even a heat of 190** or iSs** 
will effect all the changes required in cooking, in a 
little longer time than at 200 **. Dry seeds are much 
improved and the cooking hastened by being soaked 
over night then heated slowly. Cooking, in this 
way, requires no tending or watching, as most foods 
are not injured by being heated longer than is neces- 
sary in water where there is no motion of boiling to 
dissolve them. It is also a great convenience for 
keeping food warm when it cannot be served imme- 
diately. 

, For the purpose of saving heat, as well as time, 
labor and dishes, the triple double boiler has been 
constructed, over which several kinds of food may 
be -prepared at one time with one stove eyelet or gas 
jet. As the tcp of the boiler is closed, water boils 
easily, and the labor of cooking is reduced to a mini- 
mum, at the same time the full nutrition and best 
flavor of food is retained. For small families single 
double boilers are more convenient. 

So far as baking is concerned, the oven in which 



88 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

water will simmer but not boil is a safe heat for 
steady cooking of bread, potatoes, etc. It is the 
heat required for good custards. The heat must be 
much greater, or about 300** for a short time, or 
until a delicate crust is formed upon the bread, and 
the substance is heated through quickly. The steam 
will prevent the heat of the interior from rising be- 
yond the boiling point, even in a very hot oven 
unless the whole mass is burned to a crisp. All 
experiments, as well as the statements of good au- 
thorities, prove this. It requires the same time to 
raise the temperature of the inside of a loaf of 
bread to 212" as it would to boil nearly an equal 
amount of water, and before this degree of heat that 
is injurious is reached, the substance is brown on top 
and coagulated inside, requiring low temperature to 
complete the cooking. 

Modern ovens are provided with thermometers, 
thus the degree of heat can be easily regulated. The 
common dairy thermometer records the temperature 
to 212**, but will break as soon as it passes beyond 
this point in the oven, hence it is not serviceable, but 
a little experience in regulating the oven with a dish 
of water or a custard will enable any housewife to 
judge the right degree of heat for slow steady bak- 
ing that will not destroy the life of the cell, or ren- 
der the food soaked or soggy. 



APPLICATION OF HEAT. 89 

Frying is not a desirable method of cooking, as 
the intense heat required for browning decomposes 
the fat globules, changing their chemical values into 
irritating acids, as well as destroying the cell life of 
the substance. 

Common steaming is no improvement over boil- 
ing, as the heat is usually the same as that of boiling 
water. The steam in patent steam cookers is much 
hotter than boiling water or common steaming. The 
double boiler with slight steam escape regulates 
the heat perfectly to a few degrees below the boiling 
point, and is most effective for all kinds of cooking 
that have already been boiled, and serves for many 
things that are usually baked. 

The chafing dish is a great convenience for pre- 
paring the warm part of many simple meals. 



90 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 



CHAPTER XL 

THE FIRELESS COOKER. 

The fireless cooker affords another means of 
cooking food just below the boiling point. It is an 
air-tight box retaining heat, hence it is less expen- 
sive than the double boiler. Very little fuel is 
needed to raise the food to the required degree of 
heat. As soon as the vessel is removed from the 
flame the temperature lowers just a few degrees. At 
this point it remains about the same for many hours 
or long enough to cook any kind of food. As there 
is no steam escape, the full value and flavor of the 
food is retained. 

Because of the great economy in labor and fuel, 
as well as in retaining more of the nutritive and 
flavor value of food substances, the Department 
of Agriculture, at Washington, is endeavoring to 
introduce this method of cooking. It is only a 
matter of time when the fireless cooker will be 



THE FIRELESS COOKER. 91 

adopted into every home as well as in restaurants 
and hotels especially for preparing all substances re- 
quiring slow, steady heat. 

The theory advanced by the advocates of this 
method of cooking is that many eatables, especially 
those that are boiled, are better when cooked for a 
long time at a low temperature than they are when 
cooked for a short time at a high temperature. 
Vegetables keep more of their flavor and nutriment 
by the slow method, and meats of all kinds are more 
tender and palatable. There is no odor escaping 
and a mere fraction of the fuel is used in the proc- 
ess. 

The German government has been experimenting 
with similar cookers for the benefit of poor families 
who must economize in fuel bills, and finds the fire- 
less method practical. 

The American army has also been trying them as 
a matter of convenience. It has been found that 
beans, vegetables or any other food that neeeds to be 
cooked can be put into the fireless cookers, in a 
wagon, when camp is broken in the morning, and 
after a day's march a hot dinner is ready to serve 
in the evening. 

A camping outfit is more complete also with a 
fireless cooker as the cooking is less care. 



92 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

The fireless cooker is not a new discovery. It 
has been used in Norway for a long time and is 
known as the "hay box cooker." 

It was a part of the Norwegian exhibit at the 
Paris Exposition in 1867. 

While the greatest value of the fireless cooker has 
not been realized by those who use it, the fact that 
a simple way of saving the life elements of food is 
already quite popular will be a great aid in intro- 
ducing a complete system of scientific living. There 
is no need of boiling the food at all to use the 
cooker. 

Most of the directions call for boiling five or ten 
minutes. This is from habit and because it has not 
been known that cooking can be done without boil- 
ing. Boiling creates chemical changes and destroys 
some of the life. 

Many kinds of food can be heated without watch- 
ing in a double boiler. The necessity is that the 
substance be over the fire long enough to be thor- 
oughly heated through before being put into the 
cooker. At the last moment it may be raised, direct- 
ly over the flame, to a gentle simmer, then sealed. 

The cooker does not add one degree of heat 
It only retains the heat, very gradually losing it. 

Fireless cookers have been successfully made by 



THE FIRELESS COOKER. 93 

using excelsior, cotton seed, or other kinds of ma- 
terial for filling, but hay is the best, as it retains the 
heat longest. 

It has always been known that hay in the field 
will retain heat, hence the custom of the farmers in 
turning the bunches over to prevent "heating." 

The hay box must be firmly packed and never be 
opened to watch the process of cooking, as the heat 
will escape and re-heating the food is necessary to 
continue the cooking. 

Another valuable feature of fireless cooking is 
that no odors of food are about the house. 

Fireless cooking practically solves the servant 
question, as with the use of it, and natural foods, 
there is but little labor. A hot meal may be ready 
for company at any time. A woman may put her 
dinner to cook on club day and it is ready to serve 
in the evening. All Sunday cooking may be done 
in this way, thus establishing a day of rest in 
reality. 

The cooker is also convenient for keeping water 
hot all day or night. Milk in a nursing bottle may 
be quickly warmed in the water at night. 

Many kinds of fireless cookers are on the market 
at reasonable prices, but one may be made at home 
at small cost. It is but little more work to make 
one to hold two or three vessels than to hold one. 



94 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

For three vessels an oblong box about 3 feet long, 
15 inches wide, and 18 inches deep is required. This 
holds one 8-quart vessel and two 4-quart vessels, 
hence is suited to any sized family. For some pur- 
poses the large vessel can be filled with boiling water, 
serving as a double boiler to hold a small, tightly 
closed pail in which potatoes, brown bread, or other 
kinds of food that cannot be mixed with water may 
be baked after having been heated through in an 
oven, over a flame or in a double boiler, as is suited 
to the substance. 

The oblong box has three partitions of wood — 
the middle space being the largest ; for each of these 
spaces tiny mattresses two or three inches thick are 
made to fit the bottom and the top. They are filled 
with hay well pressed and have square corners, so as 
to occupy all the space. Common bed ticking or firm 
canvas is the most serviceable cloth to use. 

For the sides a circle is cut to fit closely around 
the vessel, the rest of the space being made square 
like the sides of the box. It is filled with hay, 
leaving a round nest into which the hot vessel is 
put. The square pad for the top is placed over 
it and the top of the box is closed down. 

The vessels should be enamel, straight on the sides 
and flat on the bottom, with only side ring handles 
for lifting them in and out. 



THE FIRELESS COOKER. 95 

A tight cover is essential to prevent escape of 
heat. 

A coal-oil lamp stove, costing about seventy-five 
cents, should be kept for preparing food for the 
cooker, when fire is not needed for other purposes 
in the cook stove. 

Nearly all kinds of food may be cooked in the 
fireless cooker, as even many kinds that require but 
a short time to cook are not injured by remaining 
in the slow heat for some time. 

As there is no evaporation, just the right amount 
of water must be used. 

Many kinds of food like green peas should be 
heated in hot water for about ten minutes, then be 
nearly drained and covered with hot milk before 
putting in the cooker. Butter should be added 
when opening to serve. They cook in an hour, but 
may be kept longer. 

Green beans may be cooked in the same way but 
are better cooked in water in cooker two or three 
hours, then, upon opening to serve, drain the water 
of adding the milk and butter. Bean water is lia- 
ble to be strong. 

Onions and cabbage may be cooked like peas, but 
are best suited to hot salad as they are more serv- 
iceable but little softened or entirely raw. 



96 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Asparagus and cauliflower are cooked in milk like 
green peas. 

Beets should be cooked in water in fireless cooker 
all day, then sliced and dressed with butter and 
lemon juice. 

Carrots and turnips may be cut in dice, cooked in 
water in double boiler for fifteen minutes, then be 
finished in milk in the fireless cooker, or they may 
be cooked soft in water in cooker and be drained 
and mashed for serving, they cook in one and one 
and one-half hours. 

Sweet potatoes may be cooked in water if not 
left too long, but they are better and have no loss of 
value when heated in the oven then baked in the 
fireless cooker. They may bake all day without in- 
jury. The sweet potato is deliciously sweet in this 
way. 

Greens may be dropped into hot water for a 
time then drained nearly dry and left in the fire- 
less cooker to be served with butter and lemon 
juice upon removing, but as they serve a better pur- 
pose if not softened entirely, they are easily pre- 
pared in a double boiler. 

Dry beans and peas cook perfectly in the slow 
heat of the fireless cooker. 

Soups of all kind may be ready to serve with no 
care from the cooker. 



THE FIRELESS COOKER. 97 

Macaroni should be dropped into boiling water 
and put into the cooker. Upon opening to serve, 
butter, cheese, cream and tomatoes, may be added, 
allowing it to stand a short time for the cheese to 
melt. 

Custard puddings of all kinds cook nicely in fire- 
less cooker. 

The cooker is especially adapted to rice and all 
kinds of cereals. 

Oatmeal, grits, cream of wheat, etc., may be put 
into the cooker at night and be taken out hot and 
ready for breakfast. Cereals must be put into boil- 
ing water at first as explained later. 

Many kinds of food may be reheated in the cooker 
also, or double boiler, to prevent waste and avoid 
frying in grease. 

Boston brown bread, corn and graham bread are 
easily cooked after being heated through for one 
hour, by using the large vessels as a double boiler. 



98 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 



CHAPTER XII. 

THE PROPER COMBINATIONS. 

The next essential in preparing food for an in- 
dividual or for a family, is the combinations to be 
used for the best good of all with the least labor. 
This involves the question of age, occupation, taste, 
temperament, health, climate, season, habits, nation- 
ality, position in life, conditions of birth, and many 
other things, hence can only be treated in a general 
way in relation to the main purposes of food. Many 
kinds of food, as wheat and nuts, contain some of all 
the essential elements of the human body well pro- 
portioned, hence if no other product could be 
combined with either, life would be sustained, yet 
it is much better sustained with a greater variety 
of food. Because bread is the "staff of life" nature, 
as well as custom, makes it almost an essential part 
of every meal. Experience and judgment should 
decide upon the best form in which it should be used. 



THE PROPER COMBINATIONS. 99 

Variety being a part of nature's plan, as well as the 
great privilege of humanity, it is right to gratify 
the normal taste. The experience of the greatest 
number of people proves that unfired bread which 
is always ready and the light loaf of whole 
wheat flour, baked at a low temperature to preserve 
the life of the cell, are the best kinds for general 
use. These may be varied occasionally to please the 
fancy with corn meal, rye, barley, etc., also with 
endless combinations, as biscuits, unleavened gems, 
muffins, rolls, etc. It is customary to eat a larger 
amount of the warm bread than of cold light bread. 
This habit should be checked by the judgment, as 
part of the harm from hot bread is in the tendency to 
overeat, which means an overloaded stomach. Warm 
bread should be served at the lighter meals of the 
day and be supplemented with fresh fruit, the bulk 
of which blends with it in the stomach preventing 
the bread becoming massed to clog the action of the 
digestive organs. One or two whole wheat gems, 
an egg and an apple, with a glass of milk, make an 
ideal cooked breakfast to arouse the activity of 
the system for energy, as well as to furnish a small 
amount of tissue building nutriment, where eight or 
ten biscuits, with or without soft cereals, fill the 
stomach with a mass that is too much of the same 



100 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

character to be easily acted upon. Toasted light 
bread or unfired bread and cooked cereals make a 
better combination than biscuits and cereals. Corn 
meal makes its own bulk. It does not mass together 
as other kinds of warm bread are likely to do, hence 
is always wholesome, a reasonable amount being 
satisfying, although it is not so rich in proteid as is 
wheat. This element may be supplied by eggs, nuts, 
or milk, making a corn-bread meal perfect for a 
winter morning, as corn is more heating than wheat. 
The kind of bread denotes the character of every 
meal — the most suitable elements should be grouped 
around it. Raw flaked wheat in milk is delicious and 
when a taste for it is cultivated no cooking need be 
done for breakfast, if time and energy are desired 
for other things. 

The unfired bread made by the naturalists is well 
proportioned to furnish good nourishment, and is 
of inestimable value for breakfast, lunches and 
quick meals. The habit of eating more cold, light 
bread or unfired bread, and more corn bread should 
be cultivated for long life, as it tends to counteract 
all abnormal craving caused from lack of nutrition 
on account of bad combinations or dead food that 
has always been indulged too freely. 

A properly combined meal should furnish some 



THE PROPER COMBINATIONS. loi 

of all the essential elements for life or growth, heat 
and action intelligently selected. 

1 . Proteid for tissue building. The word proteid 
is from the Greek, meaning "I hold first place.'* 

2. Heat for warmth, and energy for labor and 
thought. 

3. Fat for reserve force and plumpness of the 
body. 

4. Minerals for bones, teeth, etc. 

5. Water and chemical salts from juices of fruit 
and vegetables. 

6. Bulk. 

Proteid in bread must be supplemented each meal 
by that found in beans, peas, cereals, eggs, cheese, 
milk, or nuts. 

Carbohydrates or starchy foods that change to 
sugar and are oxidized for heat and energy are 
found most abundantly in rice and potatoes, and in 
smaller proportion in beans, peas, cereals and ba- 
nanas, while sugar exists in most products. Fat 
and fresh fruit and vegetables also abound in this 
element. 

Fat may be supplied each meal by nuts, butter, 
cream, or olive oil as special articles of diet, while 
all kinds of food contain more or less fat globules. 
Too much fat should be avoided. 






102 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Enough minerals are supplied in combinations 
with other food. 

The chemical elements in the juices of fruit, as 
lemons, oranges, or grapes, prepare the stomach 
for food — ^they counteract impurities of the lining 
membrane and prevent constipation. Each meal 
should begin with a piece of fruit, or a glass of 
fruit juice. 

Plenty of water should be indulged half an hour 
before a meal and at intervals as desired an hour 
after meals. During a meal liquids should be 
avoided, but if used, should be at the beginning 
or at the close of the meal. Milk, water, or butter- 
milk being the least injurious. 

By bulk is meant the firm, fibrous part of vege- 
tables, fruits and grains. An entire liquid diet is 
only suited to infants ; an entire soft, mushy diet is 
not desirable. The food must be carried along the 
digestive tract, but it must not be washed along too 
rapidly. A certain amount of dross and hay foods 
is needed to suspend the nutritive cells. This por- 
ous fibrous substance also acts like charcoal in ab- 
sorbing poison, and as a brush to sweep the mucus 
from the lining membrane. It does not contribute 
much nutrition directly but aids in passing off the ex- 
cretions, keeping up the action of the organs and pre- 



THE PROPER COMBINATIONS. 103 

venting the digestive system from becoming clogged. 
The habit of chewing fruit or vegetables, to extract 
the juice, then discarding the bulk, is not a wise one, 
although it sometimes enables one to gratify taste to 
a greater extent by consuming a larger quantity of 
food. 

All fruits and vegetables suitable to be eaten fresh, 
or made into salads, cold or hot, should not be soft- 
ened by cooking, even though they may be cooked 
so carefully as to protect the cell nucleus and chem- 
cal elements. The outer coat of the wheat kernel 
does not dissolve in ordinary cooking, hence the 
whole wheat loaf is of greater value as food, as it 
has its own bulk, and chemical salts, but is only a 
little greater in nutriment, as the hull is passed off 
instead of being digested. 

Each meal should have fruit or salad to serve as 
bulk and the absorption of poison. It is to the hu- 
man system what hay or grass is to the animal; at 
the same time the juices have direct value as blood 
purifiers through chemical action. Numerous chem- 
icals, a large amount of carbohydrates for energy, 
a very little proteid and many mineral salts, as well 
as distilled water, are also found in fruit and succu- 
lent vegetables. 

Care and judgment will render each meal well 



I04 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

balanced in the three great essential elements of 
foods — ^milk, eggs, nuts, beans, peas, or cheese, with 
bread for proteid — ^potatoes, or rice for starch or 
carbohydrates — butter, cream or salad oil for fat — 
salad and fruit for bulk serving as relish and des* 
sert. This is about the natural order of the average 
dinner, hence there is no great change or sacrifice, 
only care and thought, in making and keeping the 
regular diet scientific, that life action may continue 
smoothly and happily. 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 105 



CHAPTER Xni. 

TH^ CHEMISTRY O? ^OOD. 

A general knowledge of the chemical composition 
of different food products, and the changes effected 
by each element when introduced into the system 
is as essential to scientific living as a similar knowl- 
edge of drugs in the compounding of medicines. A 
few years ago it was necessary to depend upon the 
scientific researches of other countries for such in- 
formation, but now hundreds of different analyses 
of the common foods are recorded at Washington, 
and as they vary but slightly from those of other 
coimtries, they are accepted as authentic. 

In order to enlighten the general public upon this 
most important subject, W. O. Atwater, Ph.D., Spe- 
cial Agent in charge of Nutritive Investigations, 
Office of Experiment Stations, has published a pam- 
phlet entitled "Principles of Nutrition and Nutri- 
tive Value of Food," in which he gives much valua- 



io6 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

ble information as well as definite tables of aver- 
ages of different analyses, arranged in practical form 
for daily use in regulating the diet to the best ad- 
vantage. 

His propositions are: 

1 . "Food is that which taken into the body builds 
tissue or yields energy. 

2. "The most healthful food is that which is most 
fitted to the needs of the user. 

3. "The cheapest food is that which furnishes the 
most nutrition at the least cost. 

4. "The best is that which is both the most health- 
ful and the cheapest." 

While the question of cheapness is not a vital one 
after man realises his innate power to attract what 
he really needs, in the present social conditions it is 
well for both rich and poor to know that the best 
nutrition is usually derived from the most inex- 
pensive foods, and that a great variety is not desir- 
able. Because of deluded ideas regarding "the 
best" the wealthy injure the health by indulging in 
delicacies that gratify taste but do not nourish the 
system properly, while the poor cultivate misery be- 
cause they are deprived of such gratification, en- 
tirely unconscious that there is more real starvation 
or physical suffering because of lack of nutrition 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 107 

among those who live in affluence than among the 
laboring classes who are obliged to cultivate habits 
of simplicity. There is much greater need of edu- 
cation in selecting and preparing food to meet the 
demands of the system as well as to gratify the 
aesthetic taste, than of greater wealth. The most 
simple dishes may be attractive, appetizing, and 
nutritious when prepared with skill and care to save 
the living cell. 

To improve the judgment regarding food values 
and the necessities to sustain life, Mr. Atwater gives 
the composition of both body and food, as the chem- 
ical substances of which the body is composed are 
the same as those of the foods which nourish it. 

He says, "From fifteen to twenty elements are 
found in both body and food, among the most 
abundant of which are oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, 
calcium, phosphorus, and sulphur. The elements 
are so combined as to form a great variety of com- 
pounds in each. The most important kinds of com- 
pounds in the body and in foods being proteids, fats, 
carbohydrates, mineral matter and water. The 
functions of the compounds in the food are to build 
and repair the various tissues of the body and to 
supply it with heat and muscular energy. 

"Water forms 60 per cent, of the weight of the 



io8 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

body. It is important but does not yield energy 
as it cannot be burned or oxidized in the system. 

"Mineral matter, or ash (in organized condition), 
forms 5 or 6 per cent, of the weight of the body, 
and is found in the bones and teeth as well as in 
solution in the tissues and fluids. It is indispensable 
but does not yield energy. When food or body 
material is burned the mineral matter remains as 
ash (dead or disorganized by the heat). 

"Proteids include the principal nitrogenous com- 
pounds for tissue building, forming i6 per cent, of 
the weight of man, and may be divided into three 
classes : 

1. Albuminoid — as white of tgg, lean and gristle 
of meat, curd of milk, gluten of wheat. 

2. Gelatinoid — as connective tissue, skin, ossin 
of bone. 

3. Extractive — as extract of meats, beef tea, 
amids of vegetables. 

Albuminoids and gelatinoids together make the 
basis for the structure of bone, muscle and all the 
tissues, hence are most important. They may also 
be burned in the body to produce energy if there 
is not enough of other energy producing food. 

"Extractives contain nitrogen but are not sup- 
posed to produce energy or build tissue. They act 
as stimulants and appetizers, hence are of value," 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD, 109 

This lifeless condition of extractives is a most 
important discovery and is corroborated by Cham- 
bers* Encyclopaedia in the statement that gelatine 
although a tissue building element, does not seem 
to serve that purpose. It is generally supposed that 
extracts of meat and vegetables, especially beef tea, 
are condensed nutritives, and invalids depend upon 
them for nourishment in the most critical stages of 
disease unconscious that they are starving or fast- 
ing, being sustained only by stimulant and the sub- 
jective forces. The reason that this class of food 
is so devitalized is that every proteid cell is killed by 
long boiling. 

Continuing Mr. Atwater's analysis of food, he 
says: 

"Fat varies greatly but should form 15 per cent, 
of the weight of the body. It is a reserve force 
for supplementary fuel to produce heat or energy 
in emergencies. Fat is found in iheat, butter, olives, 
cotton seed, oatmeal and corn. The proteid and fat 
of food may become body proteid and body fat. 

"Carbohydrates form only i per cent, of the 
weight of tissue, but they burn in the body, produc- 
ing energy. They are found in vegetable food like 
cereal grains and potatoes, milk, sugar, starch, etc. 

"Refuse is the part of food that is not used or 



iio SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

cannot be appropriated by the body, as seeds, skin, 
diells, the woody fibre of the wheat kernel, and 
bones." 

This analysis, although about the same as given 
elsewhere, will aid the beginner in scientific living 
to understand the tables on the chemical composition 
of food. Mr. Atwater also explains the process of 
measuring energy in the following extract by com- 
^ paring food with fuel. "When fuel in the furnace 
or food in the body is oxidized by air the latent 
energy becomes active, or the potential energy be- 
comes kinetic. It is transformed into heat and 
power. As various kinds of coal differ in the 
amount of heat produced, so various foods differ 
also, yielding different value as fuel in the body. 
Latent energy in food is measured by the "bomb 
calorimeter" — food is burned by oxygen — and the 
result is expressed in its "heat of combustion." 

"The amount of energy transformed in the body 
when food and its own material are burned is 
measured with the 'respiration calorimeter.' When 
man does no muscular work (save the internal work 
of the machinery of the body), all the rest of the 
energy leaves the body as heat. When he does 
muscular work as lifting weights or real labor, part 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. in 

of the energy appears in the work and the rest is 
lost in heat. What is used and lost equals the latent 
energy in the material burned." 

This method of measuring the energy latent in 
food is standard and is approximately correct for 
that transformed in the body in normal conditions, 
but it must not be forgotten that different mental 
states arouse a different supply of energy from the 
subjective side of life, independent of food, and 
that some energy from food is stored as fat or 
used in its formation, instead of being all lost as 
heat. 

Sugars, fats, and starches should be avoided in 
hot weather to prevent suffering frc.n heat. 

When fat is inclined to accumulate, less fat pro- 
ducing food should be indulged and the energy must 
be used in labor or exercise to prevent an excess of 
fat. 

Many conditions now seeming mysterious and be- 
yond human control can be easily regulated when 
the chemical composition of food and the purpose 
of each element is understood. The proteid ele- 
ment being the most vital yet the most neglected or 
mistreated should be kept in mind by those de- 
siring to prolong life, as enough of the other ele- 
ments is always blended with it in cereals, nuts. 



112 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

beans, milk, etc., to sustain energy, but the purifying 
qualities of fruits and fresh vegetables must not be 
omitted, as ill-health would result even with an abun- 
dance of tissue building cells for growth and re- 
pair, without plenty of bulk. 

The medicinal value of food, especially so far as 
the purifying of the system is concerned, should be 
familiar to all. If the liver is inactive and the 
bowels inclined to constipation, it is unwise to in- 
dulge food fostering sluggishness, as the blood is 
soon loaded with poison. When the opposite condi- 
tion exists it should not be aggravated by laxative 
foods, as the blood is devitalized from lack of nutri- 
tion. The aim should be to maintain a normal state 
in which any serviceable food can be digested, but 
as the proper balance is often lost for a time, such 
suffering may be avoided by knowing how to re- 
store it quickly. 

Among the common laxative foods are potatoes, 
beans, peas, spinach, turnips, olives, apples, peaches, 
prunes, figs, cabbage, onions, raw cereals, etc. 

Among foods tending to constipation are meats, 
hot white bread, cooked cereals, hot sweet milk, 
cheese, honey, blackberries, raspberries, dates, etc. 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 113 

Many foods, like milk, eggs, nuts, cold and un- 
fired bread, lettuce, oranges, etc., are neutral. 

The succulent vegetables and fruits contain an 
active principle making different ones serviceable 
in different diseases, as, lettuce is soothing, as it 
has a principle similar to opium, yet leaving no bad 
results. 

Onions dissolve uric acid, contain sulphur, and 
absorb poison. 

Apples, onions and lemons tend to clear the com- 
plexion of dark, muddy color caused by uric acid in 
the blood. 

Rhubarb will relieve constipation if taken without 
sugar. 

Too much cane sugar interferes with the normal 
action of the liver. 

Turnips, onions, cabbage, cauliflower, and water 
cress contain sulphur for purifying the blood. 

Beans, spinach, raw cabbage, contain iron and 
are a great benefit to aenemic people. 

Carrots are rich in iron and increase the red cells 
of the blood. They also tend to clear and beautify 
the complexion. 

Celery is serviceable in counteracting conditions 
that lead to rheumatism and neuralgia. 

Tomatoes stimulate the liver. 



114 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Potatoes contain salts of potash that counteract 
uric acid. 

Melons arouse the kidneys and bowels and keep 
the system cool. 

Peaches have iron for the blood. 

Prunes are laxative and soothing to the nerves. 

Berries are rich in iron, but should not be indulged 
in large quantities at a time, as the seeds tend to 
clog the intestines. 

Unripe fruit should be avoided, as its chemical 
composition is not yet suited to the human system. 
The cell wall is not expanded as it is when filled with 
juice. The necessary changes for its best use take 
place during the ripening process. Green vegetables 
serve the best purpose in the milk stage, after which 
nature protects many of them during the process of 
chemical changes required for maturity and the full 
development of the tissue building cells. 

Grapes are rich in mineral salts for purifying and 
enriching the blood, and when judiciously used, 
changing from sweet varieties to the semi-acid as 
the system demands they overcome many diseases. 

A neglect of fruit and vegetables in the regular 
diet results in disease conditions of the nature of 
scurvy, while too much fruit causes an accumula- 
tion of acid in the system, hence for the best results 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 115 

It must be used like all other food with good judg- 
ment Fruit may be indulged more freely than other 
foods at irregular intervals as it is largely water, 
but it is more satisfying and of greater value when 
intelligently blended with every meal. It is cus- 
tomary at present to indulge a full meal, leaving 
the tempting fruit to crowd upon top of it, often 
causing discomfort, while a little fruit at the begitir 
ning of a meal tends to prevent over-eating. Scien- 
tific living and good health, as a rule, demand less 
food, instead of more food. Even plants and ani- 
mals do not thrive well when over-watered or over 
supplied in any way. 

The following table,* from Andrews' "What 
Shall We Eat ?" will be of great value in cultivating 
the judgment in selecting and preparing food for its 
greatest good in sustaining and prolonging life, as 
well in preserving health. 

The tables of fruits and nuts are from Eugene 
Christian's work, "Uncooked Foods": 

*As these tables were prepared before the effect of heat 
was fully known there are a few articles of food given in 
which the tissue building part is destroyed ; for instance, 
gelatine, grape-nuts. When this is understood there is no 
inconsistency to trouble the reader. 



n6 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

COaPARATIVB TABLB OF FOOD PRODUCK AMD VALUES. 




- , -3 

Beef (dried, cumcuf 
Beef (caaDed.cnid). 
Beef (cured) 



Bread (whiU 
Bread ^wholi 
Bread (^rahi 
Bread bye) . 
Bread (toasted) . 
Buckwheat flour 



lite) J* 

lole wheat) ]( 
iham) . . . U 



Cabbage 

Cake(baken')... 
CandyCbroken) . . 



— .1 83 (8s| 
(86) "i fij (el 



Mto^oclb. 
licbuncb. 
14c lb. 






Celetv. J 

Cved coffee it 

Cheese (wbole-milk) 3 to 1 

Cbeese (Swiss) 3 to . 

ChecBe (B^dm-miUc) . 3 to ; 



3 i- 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. J17 

COMPARATIVE TABLE OF FOOD PRODUCTS AND VALUES. 



-uMtoSta (dried)" ! li 
Qucken i{ 






CocM 3 

Cocoutnt (no adtk) . si 

Codfish (»H) 3 

Cookie* (Bugar) j 

Com (meal) <} 

"--ntoretn) ajto 



Com(B 






iSclb. 

3c lb. 



Em« ato. 

Eggplant 1 

aS«'.:::;:::J' 

PiEb fblue) 3 



S3;: 



Ginger tnapa j 

Gluten btUost food . ittc 
Gluten bread 3 



Halibut <&ah) ....3 ( 

HaHbut (imoked). . . ji 

Horn (cured) 4 to j (141 411 

I eiring (cured) 3fti]4i (44J is 



:i8 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

COMPARATIVE TABLE OP POOD PRODUCTS AND VALUES. 



lS,r- 



8t; 



Hone-radish (dried) i — 4 ;S 

IruhmoM i <io) iS 58 

Koffecbrod 1 (?) 6 46 

tmb ..'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. li to ii (n) 7= 1 ' 

Lemodi i (30) 88 1 

Leotita i — 9 6 

L.ttnc» it (is) 97 

Uvertbeef) 4 ,(7 7' 

Lobiter 4 (61) ;g 

Mackerel (wit) 4 <>o) 43 > 

Uflcuoni it — .0 7 

M»ple syrup il — ! j 

Melrins (water) i (6d> m 

MekmB^musk) i| (i4 84 ' 

MilkfcoWs) 1 — aj . 

Hilk (skim) i — do 

Hilk (cndnsd street), tt — t& 6 

Mincemeat (avge.) .. J to 4 — 41 49 ui "o — 

Uoliuses ..'.,.i - as 69 - 6 — 

Uushrooma (canned) 1 1 — 89 6 — s — 

Mutton(fat) '* (>7) 47 36 (3,) 17 - 

Mutton lean) 3 to 4 ("5) 68 .3 f„J 19- 

Mutton(teg) ii (18) 63 iS (18) 19 — 

Mutton (shoulder) .. 3} (31) 60 „ (>4 iS — 

Nutadnahed) atoj — j 6g (j8) 98 — 

Oatmed a to 3 — 8 74 (7) iS — 

Oata (rolled) s to 3 — 8 7» (7) »o — 

Okra (canned) .i to . Ui),-, g _ ,_ 

Oleomarsanne 3 to 4 — 11 81 (83) 5 3 

Oliyeidipe) a (19) 6s 30 (^) S — 

Oranges!!!!!!!!!!. 1 to 1 (j?) 86 n — j — 

Oyslera a to 3 i (80 S4 6 (a) 10 — 

Paranipa. a* (10)8314 (O 3 — 

Peaeheafta*) >I M «s <a — 3 — 

Peaches (canned) . . ij — 88 11 — 1 — 

Peanuts (roasted) .. 3 (31) a 6s (4g) 33 ^ 

Peanut butter 3 — a 61 (46) 31 4 

Pears(raw) .i (10)8413 — 3 — 

Peas (canned) a — Ss 10 — s — 

Peas/green) a (4S)7Si7 — « — 

P«*s5plit) »*to3 ,- ••'<•' /'\ •»-,. 

Pwsnauts 3 (S3) 3 77 (71) Jo —(si 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 119 

COMPARATIVE TABLE OP FOOD PRODUCTS AND VALUES. 



i?S."SSS-;:; 


li 


~ S 75 














Pi^^lkvi^i^) 


jtoi 


S3 1 r. 
















i4to 




































;U 




















SS.'SSf': 




— 6J 31 


'uresluwn bread . 






u»ilcand> 


























'i 


u.^ ^ 'I 
























fl ]\ 'I 




















S.uttge (beef, pork) 


li"* 


<sJ{ ?t '*' 






































Su4«rSiS^trf)*. 







li 



<a 



:«: 



[20 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

COMPARATIVE TABLE OP FOOD PRODCCTS AND VALIIG& 



Sugu- (maple) . . . . 

Tomatoeir 

Tongue (beef) 

Trout (brook) 

Veal (cutleta) 

Veal (ihank) 



Walnnt* (hard'^il) i\ 
WafaniCs (nft-ahell) 3 

WftwcreM li 

Wheatena a 

Wheat flour (white). 3 
Wheat meal <Thole) 3 
Wheat (shredded) . . j 
Whortlebemes.. li 

Yeast (compre s sed) . . i 



s:t(^n;j i 




EXPLANATORY. 
If the per cent, of fat in the fat column nearly 
equals the heat and energy the heat per cent, should be 
doubled, or the heat and energy and fat per cents. 
might be added together, because when fat or oil is well 
digested and assimilated it will make over twice as 
much heat in the body as starch or sugar will unless 
some is eliminated. For example, one ounce of butter 
will make over two times more heat than one ounce 
of tapicx:a. Therefore, much less fat or oil should be 
eaten in hot veatberthaa in cold weather. 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 121 



PROTEIN TABLE. 

The following articles contain 25 per cent, and 
over of nitrogenous substance, called protein, and 
which (with other elements) tends to make flesh and 
bone: 

Gelatin 84 per cent, of protein* 

Isinglass (sturgeon) 78 " *' *' 

Spinal column 60 " " 

Plasmon 60 '* " 

Kaffeebrod 48 ? 

Beef (dried, canned) 39 

Herrinjgs (cured) 37 

Pignolia nuts 34 

Sturgeon (dried) 33 



•« «t <i 

<< (• n 

It <• << 

<« 4* It 

t< <• 14 



Beef (cured) 3a " ** 

Cheese (skim milk) 3a *' 

Cheese (full cream) 36 '* " 

Peanut butter 39 " " 

Sausage (farmer) 39 " *' 

Sausage (Aries) 36 " " 

Sandwich meat (cooked) 38 " 

Walnuts (black) 38 " " 

Butternuts a8 " " 

Pinus nuts 38 " " 

Turkey (roast) 28 " " 

Round steak (cooked) 27 '* 

Capon (cooked) 37 " " 

Peanuts : a6 " " 

Lentils 26 " " 

Bhiefish (cooked) a6 " " 

Beef (corned and canned) 26 '* '* *' 

Beef (roast and canned) 26 " " " 

Beef (flank, very lean) 26 " " • 

Beef (boiled and canned) 25 " " 

Beef (ribs, very lean) 35 " " 

Beef (px-tails. canned) 26 " " 

Beef (loin) aS " " 

Mutton (leg roast) as " " 

Ham (fresh) 25 " '* 

Cod fish (salt) as " '* 

Beans (dried) as " *' 

Peas (dried) as " '* " 

Cooking seems to increase the percentage of 
protein in meats, fish, etc. This may be because 
the water dries out. 



122 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. . 

• • • -^ — 

TABLE OP CARBOHYDRATES. 

The following articles are called Carbohydrates; 

and tend to make heat and energy. They contain a 

high per cent, of such material, 60 or more. Many 

of these articles have no fat or protein ; others have a 
low per cent, of such elements : 

Sugar (granulated or powdered, pure and dry) loo per cent, carbohydrates 

Sugar (brown) 95 " '* " 

Sugar (maple, average) 83 " " ** 

Candy (pur«) 96 " " 

Honey 8a " " 

Maple syrup 71 " '* 

Molasses.. 70 " " 

Arrowroot (average) . . rs 90 " " " 

Comstarcli .t 90 " " " 

Manioca starch 89 " " * 

Tapioca 6& " " 

Sago 8a " " 

Rice 80 *• " 

Com flour, etc. (average) 78 " ** ** 

Popcorn 70 " " 

Barley (pearled) 78 " " 

Buckwheat 84 " " 

Wheat flour, etc 70 to 78 " " " 

Crackers 72 " " 

(Hnger snaps 76 " ** *• 

Wafers 73 " " " 

Cookies (sugar) 73 " " 

Zwieback 73 " " 

Cake (average) 63 ** " 

Bread (toasted) 61 " " 

Biscuit (Maryland) 60 " " 

Macaroni 74 " " 

Spaghetti 76 " " 

VermicelH 7a " *• " 

Oatmeal 67 " " 

RoUcd Oats 66 " •• •• 

Horseradish (dried) 78 " " 

Citron (dried) 78 " " 

Currants (dried) ^ 74 '* " ** 

Peppers (dried) 70 " " ** 

Beans (dried) 60 " " 

Peas (dried) 6a " '• 

Lentils very nearly 60 ** ** ** 

Cowpeas 60 " '* " 

Dates (dried) .* 78 

Figs •• 74 

Prunes " 73 

Raisins " 76 " '• 

Apples *• 66 '• " 

Apricots " 63 " " •• 

Chestnuts dried) 74 *' " ** 

Nuts (average 70 ** ** 

Mincemeat (average). 60 *• " 

Ghxteiu,..,..^..^...,,,.,..^,.,... 74 - •• 



«i «• «« 

<• «• It 

«4 *• «( 



•• 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 
FOOD TABLE * 



Apples 

Apncois 

Bananas, yellow 

Blackberries 

Cherries 

Currants 

Huckleberries 

Lemons 

Muskmelons 

Nectarines 

Oranges 

Pears 

Persimmons 

Pineapples 

Plums 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 

Watermelons 

DRIED FRUITS 

Dates 

Figs 

Rabins 

Api>tes 

Apricots 

■ From Uncooked Foods nnd Hoit Io U 
Get ibe IlisliPsl Form ol Animal Entiei 
Freinration. Healtliful CombiiiBlioni bd 
CHKISTIAH. Price H-OO. The Heillli Cull 



14.3 


.B 


290 


IA4 


f 


27(1 






460 


ini 


.( 


mt 


IH'i 


f 


RHft 




■; 


280 


18. f 


,t 


mi 


'»V 


( 


4M) 


B.f 


; 


K4& 


8{ 


.b 


20B 


Hi 


1 


im 






su 


1 t 


.f 


24() 


4 1 


■1 


Mft 




t 


630 


9\ 


.i 


SMWI 


m 1 


t 


SOB 




( 


370 


2t 


( 


»1() 


t' 


f 


IfiO 


8.7 


.3 


140 




1 It 


1.616 


r4s 


2'j 


1.47ft 


TflJ 


« f 


1 400 






i.eoG 


W 1 


»( 


1 «MI 


■ib 


it. 4 


1.290 



n rood. With Becioes for 
niiB Bt Mr. ■n<r Mms. 

0.. PasBaic.N.J. 



124 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

CH^MICAI. CHANGES WITHIN TH^ BODY I^^ADING UP 
TO THE POSSIBIUTY OP PROI.ONGING Ul^E. 

In order to realize the necessity of thorough mas- 
tication, and the proper combinations of food, one 
must be familiar with the general chemical changes 
that take place in the digestive system where the 
different products are prepared to be converted into 
blood. 

The influence of different attitudes of mind, and 
degrees of health, to effect chemical changes, must 
also be understood, else the secretions and life 
forces necessary for assimilation of food, recon- 
struction of body cells, and the protection of the 
system from invasion by disease germs, may be 
ignorantly kept below normal, fostering old age 
and death instead of strength and long life. 

The first important change in food is effected in 
the mouth where the active principle of the saliva 



CHEMICAL CHANGES. 125 

— ^ptyaline— converts starch into grape sugar, thus 
potatoes, rice, cereals, bananas, bread, etc., should 
be thoroughly masticated, as starch is not acted upon 
again, except by the saliva that passes into the 
stomach with the food, until after it leaves the 
stomach and reaches the pancreatic juice. When 
food is eaten rapidly, leaving most of the starch to 
be changed in the intestines, constipation, or the 
opposite weakness of laxativeness, is cultivated. 
Food should not be too soft else it fails to arouse 
sufficient saliva for the required chemical action. 

The ptyaline being alkaline in nature extreme 
acids should not be taken into the mouth at the 
same time as starchy products, as the acid attacks 
the alkaline properties hindering the action upon 
starch. Potatoes, or other starch foods, should not 
be mixed with acid sauces or vinegar dressings. 

The gastric juice of the stomach is an acid fluid, 
but its vital principle is pepsin, an organic substance 
— ^living organisms or formless ferment — ^which acts 
only upon the tissue building foods. These minute 
living cells of the pepsin liberate the precious living 
cells of food from all the other elements, preparing 
them for absorption by the lacteals. 

Dr. Prout and others discovered long ago that 
chemical action alone would not produce digestion, 



126 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

but that to the chemical acids must be added some 
of the living cells, or organic matter — ^pepsin — from 
the mucous membrane of the stomach, and the tem- 
perature maintained at about loo degrees, or about 
the same as that of the stomach, for artificial di- 
gestion. 

The formless ferments can be killed by high de- 
gfrees of heat, rendered inactive by cold, or be made 
sick by poisons in the test tube, the same as in the 
system. The yeast germ represents a more highly 
organized form of ferment than that of the digestive 
fluids. 

Notwithstanding the almost universal belief that 
the stomach is for the purpose of general di- 
gestion, all of the best observers agree that the 
gastric juice effects no change in fats, or carbohy- 
drates, except to dissolve them in freeing tissue 
building cells. It is no wonder that so many stom- 
achs, after the labor of tearing the complicated 
mixtures within them into particles, and finding 
only dead and useless cells, or a few lonely ones 
that have accidentally escaped death, for the rebuild- 
ing of their own tissues and those of the bodies for 
which they are responsible, cry out for stimulants 
to help them forget their troubles. 

When the stomach is supplied food containing liv- 



CHEMICAL CHANGES. 127 

ing cells — eggs, beans, peas, cheese, nuts, bread, 
cereals, milk, bananas, etc., it is contented, restful 
and free from cravings, providing it is not over- 
worked. 

The remaining contents of the stomach, compris- 
ing the bulk, mineral substance, water, and heat 
and energy elements pass on to the intestines in a 
semi-fluid mass known as chvme, which is acted 
upon by the bile, pancreatic juice and intestinal 
juices, until the nutritive part, or milky white 
chyle, is absorbed by the lacteals, which already 
have taken up the tissue building cells, and the 
refuse is rejected as excretia. The chyle is incipi- 
ent blood, but in the lympathic glands it becomes 
still more highly organized, or prepared for use, 
before it is poured into the blood at the arch of the 
great aorta. The blood then passes through every 
part of the body furnishing living cells to replace 
exhausted ones, heat for energy and minerals and 
chemicals from which the cells construct the inter- 
cellular tissue, as well as collecting poisons, dead 
cells and waste tissue from which it frees itself 
as it returns to the lungs. The quality of the blood 
determines the quality of the man and it is zvithin 
the power of all to have good blood by scientific 
living and noble thinking. 



I 

! 

128 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Many of the changes of natural growth are only 
vaguely known, but all scientific experiments prove 
that living substance is essential for vital action, 
whether to sustain or to generate life. This funda- 
mental substance may be revivified under proper 
conditions, or it may even be fertilized by chemicals, 
as Professor Loeb has demonstrated by producing 
what is called "artificial life" — ^individual life with- 
out the male element for fertilization — from the 
eggs of the sea urchins, with chemical salts, yet the 
origin of life, the source of the fountain of life lat- 
ent in the substance quickened, is always "just be- 
yond," and will be, even though the minute "electri- 
cal unit" — imagined to be the source of material life 
— ^may be reduced to a finer and finer essence each 
succeeding generation, as new and wonderful chem- 
ical discoveries are made. Human research ever 
approaches Infinite mind, but its depths cannot be 
fathomed. 

Atomic life, or that of the still smaller "cor- 
puscle," being universal, its organization is effected 
through chemical or electrical action — ^the lower 
forms being sexless. After differentiation into male 
and female, propagation throughout nature is ef- 
fected by means of one organized cell being quick- 
ened by another cell already organized. As already 



CHEMICAL CHANGES. 129 

stated plant cells have the power to construct living 
protoplasm, or the proteid element, from inorganic 
substances by chemical action, but the animal cell 
does not possess this power, neither can it use un- 
organized chemicals. Because of this the cells al- 
ready organized in food should be carefully pro- 
tected as they are ready for use. The only other 
way living cells can be procured for use in the 
building of tissue is from the constructive ferments 
of the digestive fluids. The formless ferment, or 
plant-animal substance, has the power in all of its 
varieties to construct living proteid from unorgan- 
ized material, but if it must do all the work of nature 
over again it is soon exhausted. 

Because of the action of the constructive fer- 
ments, much of the process of nature's changes 
being influenced by them, as well as by the destruc- 
tive ferments, the chemist says confidently: "Life 
is a series of fermentations," yet he admits that he 
knows nothing of the origin of the life of the fer- 
ments, however, his familiarity with this mysterious 
process of nature makes him an ardent believer in 
the possibilitiy of prolonging human life. 

Carl Snyder in "The Latest Conceptions of 
Science," in referring to the discovery of Croft 
Hill, "that the formless ferments can build up by 



130 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

different chemicals what has been torn down," sug- 
gests that cessation in growth, or old age, is a lapse 
in activity of these special constructive ferments, 
growing old being a series of destructive ferments ; 
the latter becoming more active as the former cease 
to construct, resulting in death. He also perceives 
that the reversibility of the ferments may prolong 
life. 

It is upon this idea of aiding the constructive fer- 
ments that chemistry seeks to restore youth, and 
many prominent scientists endeavor to discover 
serums to counteract disease and old age. 

As the serums used in medical practice are deadly 
poisons, they are very dangerous to introduce into 
the human system. They cannot be produced in 
the laboratory but are generated in the system of 
an animal by nature, or the dominance of the sub- 
jective force, in a natural effort to counteract a dis- 
ease. This same force is latent in the human body, 
and can be aroused to much greater action by the 
proper attitude of thought, and efforts for normal 
living, hence there is no need to resort to an animal 
serum, at any time, with the risk of it producing 
instant death, if administered for the wrong disease. 

Nature produces, in the human system, under 
proper use and nourishment, every chemical change 



CHEMICAL CHANGES. 131 

needed for normal growth. It also generates the 
anti-toxins to counteract a reasonable amount of 
poison and disease. The purpose of this wise pro- 
vision of nature is to give man a chance to redeem 
and revivify himself, even after making many mis- 
takes. 

The right attitude of mind should be maintained 
with every kind of treatment to overcome disease 
as well as to sustain health. Morbid chemical 
changes of a poisonous nature, that may even inter- 
fere with the natural action of other remedies, are 
produced by thoughts of fear and worry. This ten- 
dency of nature to generate dangerous poison from 
morbid conditions or a true anti-toxin to counteract 
poison from disease germs or from food, when the 
poison is in small quantities, as in a little tea, coffee, 
tobacco, ash of browned food, ash of cereal coffee, 
baking powder, etc., as well as the tendency of the 
mind, or quality of thought, to raise or lower the 
vital forces should be taken into consideration by hy- 
gienists and by "poison squads" in testing poison in 
foods. A daring, fearless mind will nullify a large 
amount of poison, while one who is overcome by 
fear may generate poison even from pure food by 
imagining it to be injurious. 

The chemist's idea of "aiding the constructive" 



132 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

ferments may be realized only through scientific 
living. 

When the body cells are entirely rebuilt from vital 
food, leaving the constructive ferments always domi- 
nant, or holding their own with the destructive 
ferments, the normal action is continued indefinitely. 
The natural protective power generated within, and 
dominant under normal living, is the only elixir of 
life, and is not a m)rth. Perpetual youth is a possi- 
bility, as generation after generation seeks to main- 
tain the innate constructive forces. 



TIME OF EATING. 133 



CHAPTER XV. 



TIM^ OF EATING. 



The time of partaking the heartiest meal, and 
the number of meals required for the best nourish- 
ment, are much discussed questions. Many people 
maintain health upon one meal each day; others 
have adopted the "no breakfast plan," claiming to 
enjoy life more perfectly with two meals, while the 
majority demand the customary three meals. 

The same diversity of opinion exists regarding 
the time for eating the heartiest meal. The old- 
fashioned mid-day dinner is being displaced by the 
six o'clock dinner; a few dieticians even advocate 
that the day should be begun with the greatest sup- 
ply of food — ^thus serving dinner soon after sun- 
rise, and retiring upon a nearly empty stomach. 

While plausible arguments are presented to sus- 
tain each system of serving repasts, custom and 
habit, rather than special law, underlie them. For 
the purpose of regulation it is necessary to adopt 



134 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

some method of eating, and cultivate the habit of 
living in harmony with it, but the mind should be 
broad enough to see that some other plan, as de- 
voutly followed by anotlier, may serve the same 
purpose. Most people make the sad mistake of 
indulging three full meals — all their capacity will 
permit — three times a day, besides many lunches be- 
tween, to gratify a craving abnormal appetite. 

Because the normal stomach should digest, or pass 
on, all its contents in three or four hours, and a 
large part of the purpose of regular eating is 
to aroiise the action of the life principle, to supply 
vitality from the subjective side of the being, to 
harmonize with that furnished by food, two light 
meals in which self-control, or judgment, is espe- 
cially cultivated, and one hearty more spontaneous 
indulgence, produce the best results for health and 
long life. While the time of the hearty meal de- 
pends much upon circumstances and kind of labor, 
the six o'clock dinner of proteid foods, is the most 
perfectly utilized by the system, as the time of great- 
est growth and repair of the body is during sleep. 
The mind is then relaxed from the tension of care, 
thus permitting the energy to be directed to the work 
of digestion and construction of cells. 

Energy and heat producing foods are more needed 



TIME OF EATING. 135 

for breakfast and luncheon, to fulfill the demands 
of labor. 

As an indication of how views and customs 
change with the advance of scientific discoveries, one 
has but to realize that only a short time ago so 
eminent an authority as Liebeg advocated that food 
for heat and energy must be transposed into tissue 
before being oxidized and utilized for work. It is 
fully established now, by many scientists, that the 
carbohydrates — elements of food for heat and 
energy — are burned or oxidized in the system, being 
used directly for labor and bodily warmth. 

By referring to the table of the chemical composi- 
tion of food it will be seen that the kinds predomi- 
nating in the carbohydrate element are most suitable 
for breakfast and luncheon, while the heavy proteid 
foods are more appropriate for dinner, thus making 
this arrangement natural and convenient. 

Many imagine that in adopting new regimes very 
radical changes are required ; that entirely different 
things or conditions are most desirable. This may be 
so in isolated cases where only one phase of life is 
involved, but it is not best with entire systems of 
living which effect the mental, moral, and physical 
status. Nature does not permit a complete deteri- 
oration of any course of habitual living. Enough 



136 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

good may always be found to serve as a foundation 
for better regulation and more substantial growth. 
Radical changes that are adopted for a time, then 
cast aside as impractical, are "fads," even though 
they may involve a great and vital principle. Per- 
manent and scientific changes in race development 
are so gradual that they become woven into the 
woof of life, thread by thread. The whole structure 
is stronger and more enduring by the new being 
blended with the better texture that has already been 
tried by experience, than it possibly could become by 
beginning entirely anew, whenever mistakes are dis- 
covered, hence the regulation of the present system 
of diet, that can easily be made to conform with the 
highest demands of science, according to the pres- 
ent development, will afford better results than en- 
tirely new systems. 

For breakfast a few selections from the following 
list of foods serve- the best purpose, the amount 
needed being regulated by the kind of labor. As 
a rule very little food is required in the morning : 

CARBOHYDRATES FOR WORKING ENERGY. 
Fruit. 

Cereals— cooked or uncooked with milk. 
Bread — ^unfired bread, light bread or toast with cereals. 
Hot biscuit, corn-bread, gems, or unleavened 
bread when cereals are omitted. 



TIME OF EATING. 137 

- Honey or natural sjrrups, as cane and maple. 
Fats are supplied by cream and butter. 
A very little proteid easily digested, in addition to that in 
bread and cereals. 

Eggs — slightly cooked. 
Nuts — a very few. 
Cheese rare-bit. 
Milk. 

LIQUIDS. 

Hot water with lemon juice as a blood purifier. 

Hot milk with egg for weakness. 

Sweet milk or water— only one glass. 
For luncheon wise selections may be made from a little dif- 
ferent list. Luncheon should be cold most of the time to save 
labor and encourage the use of natural food like fruit, nuts 
and milk. 

Fruit. 

Nuts. 

Salads. . 

Bread— cold light whole wheat bread, or unfired bread. 

Potatoes with milk. 

Rice. 

Soups. 

Soups from vegetables. 

Cheese dishes. 

Cream or milk dishes. 
Cheese and nuts furnish plenty of proteid for lunch while 
heat and energy elements predominate yet are simply prepared. 
Water, milk— one cup, furnishes liquid. 

For dinner it is already customary to select sub- 
stantial foods in which the body building element 
predominates, yet are well proportioned with heat 



138 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

and energy to sustain the action of the organs for 
growth and repair. The following list is natural 
and scientific so far as material is concerned, but 
great care must be exercised to protect the life of 
the cell : 

Soup or fruit juice for stimulent. 
Nuts, eggs, or cheese. 

Beans or peas. To alternate with nuts» eggs or cheese, as 
meat substitutes. 
Bread — ^white wheat or corn-bread. 
Potatoes or rice for starch. 
Salad for bulk, and relish. 
Fruit artistically prepared for dessert. 
Chocolate, or milk — ^small cup for beverage. 

By keeping this general outline of the standard 
foods and their uses in mind, all other combinations 
may be grouped around it for variation, yet system 
and regulation be maintained. To accomplish any 
particular thing the mind must feel confident that 
the best possible course to attain success is being pur- 
sued. Thoughtlessness and carelessness lead to 
chaos. If dinner dishes of meat and beans are 
served for breakfast, or syrup and coffee for lunch, 
it is hard to cultivate a habit of regularity pre- 
venting excessive eating. A little girl who was given 
cake, candy, nuts and meat on Thanksgiving morn- 
ing, and a still greater variety of things at noon, 
while preparations were being made for a feast at 



TIME OF EATING. 139 

six o'clock dinner, expressed herself as being "all 
mixed up." Constipation and headache the next day 
were the natural consequences, while if system and 
simplicity had been maintained the enjoyment would 
have been greater with no bad result. The whole 
world is **mixed up' regarding food substances and 
becomes more entangled in the meshes of compli- 
cated injurious cooking with each succeeding gener- 
ation, while the art of good plain cooking is being 
lost. A young girl learns to make cake, pie, and 
candy in preference to learning to prepare potatoes 
and beans, or bread and salad. 

It is possible to endure any kind of combination 
occasionally, but the fussed-up dishes become tire- 
some, while substantial foods become more pleasing 
when depended upon almost entirely. Reasonable 
diversity is a necessity, as too much of any one kind 
of food, no matter how nutritious or simple, if 
clogged in the system generates a poison peculiar to 
itself, A great pleasure is often lost in this way 
and parents should guard children from excesses. 
It IS' not kindness to over indulge them.. All dis- 
agreement of wholesome food can be traced to its 
excessive use at some time, even though it may be 
generations back. After one has been sickened by 
honey, milk, strawberries, melons, or any kind of 



140 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

food, its future use tends to reproduce the same 
poison, unless the system is held positive to it repeat- 
edly, until the anti-toxin is generated to counter- 
act it. 

When systematic living is begun late in life, but 
little can be accomplished by advising or scolding, 
as stubborness, rather than a desire for better con- 
ditions, is easily aroused. The mother should make 
changes from dead or devitalized foods to natural 
vital kinds that are pleasing, so gradually the family 
is not aware of it. No child will object to fruit 
and nuts taking the place of mince pie or plum 
pudding. No man will miss meat for breakfast if 
given appetizing dishes made from eggs, nuts, with 
cereals, bread and fresh fruit. The changes may be 
made every other day at firsts and in many cases 
fruit, bread and milk are all that is desired for 
breakfast. 

It is not difficult to substitute a dinner in which 
every cell is living, and all the products of nature 
natural and sustaining, in placie of one which, under 
the old custom, would have been largely useless 
as body building food. For instance, a menu of 
hard fried steak, over-baked baker's bread, boiled 
rice, boiled beans, stewed cabbage, mince pie, and 
apply butter would supply no tissue building cells, 



TIME OF EATING. 141 

while a menu of poached eggs, corn bread, simmered 
rice, slowly baked or simmered beans, cabbage salad, 
nut and fig cake, and fresh apples provides heat, 
energy and fat in better proportion than the first 
menu, as well as being rich in proteid to rebuild 
the body cells, holding it positive to the encroach- 
ment of old age. Well selected fodd is a matter 
of knowledge rather than of greater expense or 
labor. 

System is a product of civilization. Animals and 
barbarians live spontaneously depending upon in- 
stinct to guide them to preserve life. The thought 
of "the greatest good," or of the best results from 
well planned methods, has not yet been awakened. 
Only a short time ago spiritual and intellectual de- 
velopment were largely spontaneous. A philosopher 
called those who desired knowledge around him, im- 
parting his individual ideas — for better or for worse. 
Religious and general educational instruction was 
given in a similar manner; pupils could select one 
subject and reject another, being guided only by 
taste or whim. 

The great advantage of systematic work in the 
public schools, as well as in the kindergartens and 
Sunday schools, is apparent to all. No child is 
capable of directing his course in life from infancy. 



142 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

In time the physical development will be as care- 
fully considered and as perfectly systematized as the 
moral and intellectual. The whims of a child are 
no more reliable in selecting the best food, or the 
proper exercise for his highest culture, than in se- 
lecting the best book or the best companions. Sys- 
tematic eating, exercising and breathing, to yield 
a perfect body, is also a necessary foundation for 
the best spiritual and intellectual development; 
hence, instruction in this line should be a prominent 
feature of every school course, as well as being prac- 
tically applied in the home by the parents. 



EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN. 143 



CHAPTER XVI. 

THE EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN. 

Upon first considering the necessity of preparing 
food to protect the Hfe of the cell in proteid sub- 
stances, besides retaining the fibrous formation and 
uniform chemical composition of succulent fruits 
and vegetables, it seems a great burden and responsi- 
bility upon woman. When once awakened to the 
new truth the fear of dead cells, and mysterious 
chemical changes, haunt her. She sees no possibil- 
ity of ever being emancipated from labor, care, or 
apprehension. 

Some of the raw food advocates take advantage 
of this first disturbed condition of mind, picturing 
broken health, early death, and even predicting 
"suicide" if cooked food of any kind is indulged. 
In opposition to the arousing of such states of fear, 
the Christian Scientists claim that the more the 
question of diet is studied the weaker the digestive 
organs become, hence they eat "anything" and "de- 
monstrate" over bad results — for a time at least. 



144 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Both of these conditions are extreme. It is true, 
that the half-awakened consciousness of better con- 
ditions is always disturbing, but as soon as the 
higher truth is fully understood, and the new regime 
becomes habitual, calm is established with the life 
on a higher plane. 

The fostering of fear for the advancement of any 
cause is a great mistake, hence the first emancipor 
Hon of woman must be from thoughts of dread, and 
uncertainty, as to the action of food; the second is 
from unnecessary responsibility; the third is from 
excessive labor; the fourth is from seemingly fixed 
habits of needless and injurious cooking. 

The fear of dead cells in small quantities is over- 
come by knowing that they may still be oxidized for 
energy or some of their chemical elements may be 
utilized by the formless ferments in constructing 
intercellular tissue, and their loss in one kind of food 
may be supplied by cells that have not been injured 
in other foods. Dead proteid cells are not injuri- 
ously poisonous, as nature counteracts some poisons, 
unless they are retained in the system from excess- 
ive eating long enough to decompose. They are 
simply useless for tissue building, and if not needed 
for energy, they pass with the excretions the same 
as sawdust, or beads or buttons would. No amount 



EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN. 145 

of dead food can fully satisfy hunger, hence, its use 
leaves a craving tending to over indulgence that can 
be regulated only by judgment, rather than by 
feeling. 

The great danger from trying to subsist upon 
food, with the proteid element destroyed, is of cell 
starvation. Nothing but living cells in food, with 
a little aid from the constructive ferments, can pro- 
duce new cells of body growth. A child fed en- 
tirely upon thoroughly boiled milk would die from 
starvation, as fast as its first set of body cells were 
used, although they might last for some time. If 
given boiled eggs and fresh milk the milk alone 
would sustain the body cells while the eggs would 
be oxidized for energy, although if cooked prop- 
erly the cells of the eggs should help in nourish- 
ing the body cells. 

When circumstances make the use of lifeless pro- 
teid food unavoidable, it should not be indulged with 
fear, but with confidence and intelligence that it will 
serve as energy or be cast off with the excretions, 
however, a smaller quantity should be taken and the 
necessary proteid supplied by milk, eggs, nuts, or 
cheese, which may properly be demanded at any 
table. 

The most injurious chemical changes made by 



146 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

heat, in cooking, are found in succulent fruits and 
vegetables, like cabbage, iron and other chemicals 
being set free from their natural combinations by 
long boiling. This condition is easily avoided by 
using such foods in hot or cold salads, or by cooking 
them in a double boiler. 

Whole wheat, light bread and quick break are sel- 
dom injured by heat, thus they, with unfired bread, 
nuts, milk, cheese, eggs, fresh fruit and green vege- 
tables, supply all of the necessities for scientific liv- 
ing in cases where cooking cannot be fully regulated, 
all fear being cast aside. 

For emancipation from the burden of responsi- 
bility, in establishing hygienic habits of diet, it is 
only necessary to be intelligent as to the chemical 
composition of food, then to use tact in selecting 
kinds that are pleasing to the taste of the diflferent 
members of the family. There is plenty of whole- 
some food for variety without resorting to injurious 
combinations. 

It soon becomes a pleasure instead of a responsi- 
bility to keep the thought of greater vitality and 
longer life constantly before the mind. The mother 
can do much to liberate her family from the bond- 
age of the race belief in early death. The effort 
and thought to select food for this great purpose 



EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN. 147 

three times each day, is not only sustaining to the 
cells of the body, but it incorporates the idea of 
freshness and life into the brain structure. It in- 
spires a feeling of hope and joy instead of anxiety. 

The fostered desire and effort to live is an activ- 
ity from the objective side of life harmonizing it 
with the subjective self. It is a means of cultivating 
vitality for prolonging life, being similar to the culti- 
vation of any other art. Music is from the soul 
but nature demands repeated, determined, and con- 
centrated effort before the objective side of man is 
raised to give it full expression. Many extremists 
claim to be able to retain life and attract money 
by thought alone, but they will know in time that a 
way of objective action or labor is associated with 
every kind of success. The responsibility in ac- 
cumulating vitality is no different from that re- 
quired for success in any phase of life, whether fi- 
nancial, moral or educational — ^those who are will- 
ing to make the proper efforts enjoy the reward, 
while others drift and complain. 

For emancipation from excessive labor three steps 
are necessary: 

First — To dispell the idea of drudgery — mental 
emancipation. .; 

Second — ^To do less cooking. 



148 SCIENTIFIC UVING. 

Third — ^To devise improved methods of saving 
labor as do mea 

To dispell the idea of drudgery, labor must be 
looked upon as a privilege. To be able to work is 
the permit to enter the contest of life. The "ups 
and downs" of daily work is life. The effort to do, 
and to win is the measure of life's pleasure. Hap- 
piness does not depend upon perfection but upon 
preservative or progressive thoughts and acts. Every 
desire to maintain or prolong life is noble, pleasing, 
invigorating. Time could not be spent in a more 
satisfactory manner than in home work, but most 
women do not know it, hence it does not occur to 
them to really enjoy it. Under scientific living the 
New Woman will find her true sphere in the home 
and the work of the kitchen will be raised to a level 
with that of the laboratory — ^the art of cooking will 
be on a plane with the professions. 

Living scientifically does not mean that a woman 
will have no time for a reasonable amount of club 
or social life, as, with greater knowledge her work 
will be better planned, besides the possibility of pro- 
viding her family a diet that will sustain life for 
hundreds of years, becomes of greater interest and 
importance to her than other work or amusement. 
She finds the same delight in discussing the chem- 






EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN. 149 

istry of food, with friends and neighbors, that she 
does in discussing art and history in the club room. 

The servant question will also be solved by scien- 
tific living. When woman becomes independent of 
the servant, except as she is able to employ trained 
dieticians, better preparation and more faithful 
service can be demanded of those needing positions 
in private homes. At present women suffer more 
from incompetent cooks than they will from doing 
all the cooking when it is systematized. 

In order for women to reconcile herself to do less 
cooking several facts must be fully realized. 

First — All classes of people, as a rule, eat and 
drink too much — ^more disease and death result from 
intemperate eating and drinking than from starva- 
tion, excepting the universal cell starvation. 

Second — A few combinations of food to be en- 
joyed freely, or with good judgment, serve a bet- 
ter purpose and afford greater enjoyment than a 
great variety that can only be tasted or excessively 
indulged. 

Third — It is foolish to spend time and energy 
)cooking kinds of food that are better and more 
useful raw. 

Fourth — ^it is a sin for a mother to set injurious 



ISO SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

food before her family, cultivating misery and death 
instead of life. 

The last step necessary to emancipate woman 
from the bondage of excessive labor is to arouse her 
intuitive genius in devising simplified methods of 
work. Better thinking and planning result in 
many improvements. Men are more progressive 
than women in emancipating themselves from mo- 
notonous labor. Had cooking, sweeping and dish- 
washing been a part of their daily work the processes 
would have been simplified ere this, while women 
have increased the labor and enslaved themselves. 
Even while groaning under the complications that 
overwhelm them, if a shorter way of work is ad- 
vocated it is greeted with a cry of "lazy!" dirty!" 
As soon as this false feeling that housework must 
be done "in the same old way" is dispelled, many 
new ideas will be put into practice, making woman's 
work less burdensome. With this aim in view a 
few ideas are given for immediate relief, while bet- 
ter ones are being evolved. 

I. A knowledge of the chemical value of food and 
of its purpose in the system saves much of the labor 
of cooking. Fruits, nuts, and most vegetables 
being more desirable in the natural state or but 
simply prepared with dressings, do not require 
cooking. 



EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN. 151 

2. A good supply of foods that keep well and can 
be easily prepared should always be kept on hand 
for emergencies. Such precautions free the mind 
from care. Among this class of foods may be 
named unfired bread, canned Boston brown bread, 
fresh and canned fruits, dates and figs, celery, cab- 
bage, and onions for salad, nuts and nut meats, 
salad dressing, dried sweet corn, eggs, cheese, fig 
and nut cake, angel food, etc. 

In time all vegetables and fruit will be cooked at 
a temperature just below the boiling point for can- 
ning, thus affording a greater variety of easily pre- 
pared foods for emergencies in scientific living ; 
however, canned goods of any kind should not be 
used when it is possible to obtain fresh food. 

3. Many kinds of food that require long cook- 
ing should be prepared in quantities to last for at 
least a week — ^light bread and baked beans, may 
be cooked the same day, being kept to serve occa- 
sionally with fruits and nuts. 

4. Uncooked flaked cereals mixed with ground 
nut meats, served with cream or milk are excellent 
for breakfast, at least twice each week as a relief 
from cooking. If a woman is overworked both 
breakfast and luncheon may be served uncooked 
without neglect of the family. This also saves 
dish and kitchen work. 



153 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

5. The use of the double boiler and hay cooker 
saves labor, as they require no watching and make 
less dish washing. 

6. Some kinds of pastry may be indulged occa- 
sionally, but the less the better, so it need be no bur- 
dea The habit of baking pie and cake for com- 
pany should be forever abandoned. Pleasing com- 
panionship and simple diet are always more accept- 
able to guests. 

7. The soup course is a useless enslaving habit 
A tiny glass of fruit juice would be more fitting as 
an appetizer and aid to digestion. Soup made at 
dinner should be served from the chafing dish for 
lunch the next day or for dinner on club day or 
Sunday, with salad, fruit and nuts. 

8. To introduce the natural breakfast, on Wednes- 
day morning of each week the meal should be as 
simple as possible, allowing the housewife to dress 
upon rising for a walk as soon as the meal is over, 
instead of dressing for kitchen work. Hot milk or 
poached eggs may be served from the chafing dish, 
other foods being natural. When twelve women in 
a neighborhood start for a walk on the same morn- 
ing the air of freedom will soon be breathed by thou- 
sands of careworn sisters, and the new park systems 
will be more appreciated. 



EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN. 153 

9. Sunday dinner should be pleasing and a little 
different from that of other days, but not such as 
to induce excessive indulgence. It is a disgrace to 
Christianity to worship God one hour then defile his 
temple — ^the body — ^the next hour by intemperate 
eating and drinking. 

ID. The place of "greatest good" in all work and 
recreation must be sought by woman as a direct 
guide to her emancipation. It is the place where 
her life harmonizes with the "Divine Idea" and no 
matter how simple the duty involved — ^be it only 
the cooking of an egg — ^it is a great and enjoyable 
work and must be done just right to be scientific 
A little carelessness destroys the usefulness, hence 
half the rushing labor of the present is of no real 
value and woman's hardship is due to ignorance 
instead of being a necessity. Loss instead of gain 
results from overwork, as well as from indolence 
or carelessness, hence the only desirable position to 
acquire is that of the restful "happy medium." 

II. To save nearly half the labor of woman's 
work, dish handling must be avoided. No machine 
has ever been invented that is practical for this 
purpose. . The best plan is to wash each kitchen 
dish as it is used in the preparation of food at the 
sink, while the serving dishes should be washed 



IS4 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

without removing them from the table, each place 
being left upon rising from the table in as perfect 
order as when the meal began. This is accomplished 
after the manner of the finger bowl custom. At the 
close of the meal a crumb brush and tray, with a 
tiny bowl for receiving soft morsels should be 
passed around the table. These are followed by a 
glass bowl, larger than a finger bowl, and a cup 
towel. In the bowl is a long handled brush, with 
which to brush the inside of soiled dishes, each one 
being dried before putting it down. Each place is 
arranged in a moment ready for the next meal. 
The oldest child may sit by the father, arranging 
his place, while the mother attends to her own and 
the babys; all others should be able to save the 
mother labor. Once a week all of the dishes should 
be removed to the sink, scalded in soap-suds and 
polished, while the tablecloth and napkins are 
being changed. 

12. As soon as the kitchen labor is reduced the 
mind is in better condition to regulate and simplify 
all other departments of domestic work, leaving time 
and energy for recreation, as well as to cultivate 
the mind and body. 

13. The refinement of home work tends to eman- 
cipate woman from the dread of it. Preparing a 



EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN. 155 

pleasing repast in a pretty fresh house dress without 
fear of soiling it is a pleasure, where the necessity 
of dressing to handle flour, dough, and frying grease 
over a hot cook stove is burdensome to both mind 
and body. The hot part of some meals can be pre- 
pared at the table by using a chafing dish. Gas 
should be substituted for the cook stove if possi- 
ble. It is only a matter of time when electricity will 
be in general use for cooking and it can be more 
easily regulated than other kinds of heat. 

14. A large part of woman's emancipation is of a 
mental nature. The truth is women love to cook. 
To be deprived of the privilege forever would be 
nearly as great a sorrow as to be deprived of chil- 
dren in the home. It is the feeling of pressure, 
hurry, and overwork attending the present custom 
of excessive cooking that inspires disgust for house- 
work and cooking. The abnormal appetite demands 
a heavy meal no matter how tired a wife or mother 
may be. When the whole family is educated to sci- 
entific living, knowing that the actual needs of the 
system are fully supplied by simple natural food, 
the mother can assert her right to be free from labor 
at times without fear of neglecting those dependent 
upon her. The new woman with her awakened con- 
sciousness of greater freedom and higher possibili- 



IS6 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

ties is the natural result of evolution, and her present 
unrest and protest against slavery in the home is 
only a necessary step to establish the home upon a 
higher basis — a scientific foundation — a plane where 
full justice to the father, the mother, and the child 
will be exercised, thus making long life an inheri- 
tance for future generations. 

The emancipation of woman from long estab- 
lished habits of diet, and routine labor, is the hard- 
est feature of scientific living. The constant repe- 
tition of thoughts and acts moulds the brain and 
body cells, influencing them for long life, or for 
early death, according as their nature is constructive 
or destructive. For generations woman has in- 
dulged the habit of cooking "any thing that is 
handy," or what the depraved appetite craved, until 
it seems a burden to plan for a definite result. The 
popularity of the overloaded table makes the con- 
scientious housewife shrink from serving less, the 
spirit of hospitality cruelly forbids a saving of la- 
bor ; the model housekeeper is a slave to her regime 
of daily work. 

A mistaken sense of duty keeps the mother frying 
doughnuts for her boys, and baking mince pies for 
her husband. Even missionary societies, whose sole 
aim is to elevate hiunanity, solicit preserves that are 



EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN. 157 

useless as food to send hundreds of mUes to train- 
ing schools because the girls are "starving for them 
while deprived of 'mother's' cooking." 

The inclination to save food products being 
stronger at present than the desire to save life, is 
another cause of perpetuating old habits, as is illus- 
trated by a good woman who suddenly became an 
enthusiastic Ralstonite. While attempting to per- 
suade a friend to join her health club, the lady, 
knowing that the Ralstonite's pantry shelves were 
lined with jars of preserves and pickles, and hoping 
to fall heir to some of the "forbidden fruit," naively 
inquired what she would do with her preserves now 
that she could not eat them herself. "Oh, I will save 
them all up for my husband," was her quick reply. 

Such conditions of error, because of ignorance 
and habit, can only be overcome as the possibility of 
prolonging life is realized, making the simple life 
popular, and encouraging the study of the chemical 
value of food. Men as a rule prefer plain, sub- 
stantial food ; at the same time the wife chafes and 
frets and works to prepare new and difficult combi- 
nations only to be deeply injured when he fails to 
enjoy them. 

• It is time she aroused to see that she is largely 
responsible for her own burdens, and that she can 
emancipate herself. 



iS8 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 



i % 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Exact methods of scientific cooking. 

It is the aim of this work to deal with principles 
of cooking different kinds of food to retain the liv- 
ing cell, and enhance their value in other ways rather 
than being a book of recipes. There is no limit to 
the combinations that may be devised, but as most of 
those in present circulation devitalize more or less 
of the elements in catering to taste alone, a basis 
upon which to establish a simple healthful systenj 
of regular diet is of vital importance. A sufficient 
number of preparations are given under each divi- 
sion of food material to relieve the confusion and 
doubt involved in the complications and contradict- 
tions so prevalent. The great demand is to know 
just how to begin to live to sustain health and pro- 
long life, inspiring independence in thinking, and 
planning, to the best purpose. From this standpoint, 
original discoveries of pleasing and useful combina- 
tions are possible, and wise selections may be made 
from the experiences of others. 



EXACT METHODS. 159 

SEASONING. 

The question of seasoning and the nature of 
condiments are discussed in another chapter, but as 
artificial flavors^usually enter into all forms of cook- 
ing, a word of explanation is needed at the begin- 
ning of this department. 

It is a well known fact now that salt, pepper, mus- 
tard, essences, etc., are of a poisonous, irritating, 
stimulating nature, and that the less one usees of 
them the better off he is. Thousands of people are 
now living entirely without condiments and many 
more use them but sparingly. All of these testify 
that the flavor of food is more delicate and pleasing 
without being artificially seasoned than it is with 
the average amount in general use. 

The sense of taste, when free from the deadening 
influence of salt and pepper, becomes so much more 
acute that food flavors before unknown are appre- 
ciated and. enjoyed. 

Seasoning and sauces at best indicate poor cook- 
ing or inferij)ir food that needs something to help 
it out. 

When a hostess sees a guest use much vinegar 
or salt and pepper at her table she immediately 
knows her cooking is not considered just right. It 



V 



i66 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

is a delicate point and, as the popularity of excessive 
seasoning is fast waning, one should pause to con- 
sider how great a hold the false habit has gained 
upon him. 

Most people use condiments thoughtlessly because 
of habit without knowing that they are injurious 
and even offensive to a normal taste. 

At a club dinner not long ago a society lady was 
noticed to spread a thick' white layer of salt upon 
a slice of tomato, then a layer of black pepper, and 
another of mustard over it. She ate the combination 
without thought either of the seasoning or the to- 
mato, but the next day at another gathering from 
which she was absent the vulgarity of such a use 
of condiments was discussed, leaving reflections 
against her culture. 

Another instance shows that it is largely imagina- 
tion that salt and pepper improve the taste of food. 
A wealthy and refined elderly lady was having her 
eyes treated at a sanitarium. Condiments were not 
used except occasionally by a patient who ventured 
to carry some to the table. The half blind woman 
was noticed during dinner by the matron to care- 
fully spread a black layer of something over her 
canteloupe. "Where did you get the pepper?" she 
inquired. "It was already upon the melon and 



4 



EXACT METHODS. i6i 

you don't know how much better it makes it," was 
the quick reply. Upon close observation a burst 
of laughter was heard from all around the table. 
The pepper was just innocent dirt. In the evening 
the doctor gave a parlor lecture upon the subject, 
showing that the need of seasoning was all in the 
imagination. 

In this work that aims to cultivate good habits, 
the customary "salt and pepper" is omitted, leaving 
each one to "season to taste," but it must not be 
forgotten that just a suggestion of flavor like that 
of perfume is all that can longer be considered 
"good taste." 

MII.K. 

Pure milk being the most vital food in childhood, 
as well as entering into nearly all of the combina- 
tions of cooking for the adult, will be considered 
first among foods. It is rich in living proteid cells 
for tissue building, besides possessing some of all 
the other elements essential for life, hence should 
never be subjected to boiling. It can be heated 
from 150 degrees to 200 degrees over boiling water 
or in ordinary ways by careful watching. At this 
temperature it serves all purposes for gravies, cus- 
tards, vegetables, etc., besides giving "meat value" 



i62 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

to many dishes otherwise deficient in the tissue build- 
ing element. 

Milk should be used with the same regulation and 
judgment as any other kind of food, one glass be- 
ing enough for a child or an adult to drink at a 
meal with other substantial substances. Adults as 
well as children should drink it slowly for the best 
results, as too much forms curds in the stomach. 
It is the same as eating a double meal to drink two 
or three glasses of milk after being well supplied 
with ordinary food. Consumptives often injure the 
digestive organs by an excessive use of milk to 
produce fat. Properly regulated it is good food for 
a depleted system, but its value is for cell renewal, 
more than for fat, hence it requires perfect assimi- 
lation. 

Milk may be used pure and fresh from the cow, 
or after it is well cooled but not extremely iced. It 
should be sweet else entirely changed to clabber or 
buttermilk. In its first stages of fermentation, or 
souring, it is sometimes irritating to the stomach, 
but a new and vital principle is developed when the 
change is complete. One glass of buttermilk for 
each meal is enough when served as a beverage. 

The present tendency to use buttermilk excess- 
ively as an "elixir of life" is not a wise one. It is 



EXACT METHODS. 163 

wholesome and valuable if used in moderation, but 
as it is a germ product or fermentation and acid, too 
much of it is not desirable. It does not agree with 
all people, but with most people one or two glasses 
daily or once a week is better than drinking until 
one is uncomfortable, thinking just because it is but- 
termilk instead of "soriiething stronger" it is 
harmless. 

Sterilized milk is boiled milk. It is heated to 212 
degrees, hence its mineral elements and vital cells 
are destroyed, leaving it valueless as food. Many 
people boil all the milk they use, but it is a sad 
mistake. 

Pasteurized milk is heated to 180 degrees. This 
does not greatly change the value, but destroys 
germs and hinders fermentation, hence it keeps 
sweet for a longer time. 

A great amount of milk is not the best food for 
adults, as they need more solid substances. 

BREAD. 

Bread, like milk, possesses some of all the ele- 
ments essential to life. It is important that it be 
well made, as wholesome food arouses the greatest 
supply of fluids to digest it, besides yielding the 
best influence for refinement and culture. Heavy 



i64 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

bread and ignorance or coarseness are dosdy asso- 
ciated. 

Many hygienists picture the evils of using fer- 
mented bread, claiming that man must return en- 
tirely to the' use of the uncooked bread of early 
times, made from grain pressed into cakes and dried 
in the sun. The modern "unfired bread" is whole- 
some and desirable for a large part of the time, but 
the process of fermentation, like many other things, 
is viewed by those who fear it, from one standpoint 
only. It is true that it is a process of decay, but 
it is also nature's process of change — ^the way of 
converting one substance into another through mole- 
cular exchange, being constructive in another way 
although destructive at first. The resulting sub- 
stance may be of greater value than the original. 
Buttermilk, for instance, is the result of one kind 
of fermentation, and Melchinkoff, the Russian sci- 
entist, says it is nearer the "elixir of life" than any 
other substance known, as its bacteria counteract 
the bacteria that infest the lining of the intestines. 
The process of construction and destruction — ^the 
life action — ^the metabolism of the cell is taking place 
in the human system constantly, hence the action of 
the yeast germ in its "nice, warm comfortable place" 
need not be regarded as an abnormal condition 



EXACT METHODS. 165 

inspiring disgust. Fermentation, both common and 
formless, serves many purposes in nature's economy 
beyond the present knowledge of man. It is impos- 
sible to avoid contact with infinitesimal life. Not a 
drink of water can be taken, unless it is distilled, 
without introducing into the system myriads of bac- 
teria in all stages of development, but it is the duty 
of the protecting cells of the body to destroy those 
unavoidably introduced that are injurious; If 
the vitality of the body cells is maintained they will 
always keep the system positive to the attacks of 
disease germs and counteract internal fermentation 
generated from an occasional mistaken use or ex- 
cess of food. 

The yeast germ, being more plant than animal, 
creates its own proteid or tissue building element 
from unorganized chemical substance. Its indivi- 
dual life is destroyed by heat at 160 degrees, but its 
proteid cells are still vital, adding much to the rich- 
ness of the grain, hence the light loaf of whole 
wheat flour, when properly made and baked to pro- 
tect the fertilizing cell nuclei, is a desirable kind of 
bread. The unfired bread has the advantage of 
requiring no labor and being free from the danger 
of careless cooking, but the whole wheat loaf is the 
most suitable to serve with a cooked dinnen 



i66 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Light bread should be put fully raised into a 
moderately hot oven (230 degreees) for fifteen 
minutes, after which the heat should be lowered to 
200 degrees for an hour or a little longer. While 
the crust is lightly browning the inside of the loaf 
is being heated through and raised nearer and nearer 
the boiling point, but as it is all coagulated by the 
time it reaches 205 degrees, it is "fixed," having the 
appearance of being cooked, before the boiling point 
is reached. At this stage the heat must be lowered, 
allowing the baking to proceed as slowly as cereals 
cooked over boiling water. When the inside of the 
loaf boils the bread dries quickly. It is lifeless and 
insipid. When th6 heat is just right, providing the 
bread is properly made and cared for, it is delicious, 
moist and vital. After the loaves are cool they 
should be wrapped in towels and kept in a tight 
bread box to retain freshness. Two boxes should 
always be ready for use, as they need air and sun- 
shine to keep them pure. 

Quick bread of all kinds requires strong heat at 
first. By the time the crust is lightly browned the 
inside is coagulated but not yet boiled. 

At this point the heat must be lowered or the 
oven door opened while the baking continuts slowly 
for ten or fifteen minutes. 



EXACT METHODS. 167 

t 

Baking powders should be avoided in bread and 
soda used as little as possible. Both are irritating 
to the lining of the stomach and when constantly- 
depended upon cause indigestion. 

Unleavened whole wheat gems and finger rolls are 
the most healthful hot bread for variety. 

Corn bread and whole wheat biscuits may be made 
in the unleavened forms or for occasional changes 
they may be raised with soda and sour milk to which 
is added a little cream. 

The habit of eating more cold whole wheat and 
unfired bread should be cultivated. White bread 
and biscuits should be regarded as a luxury only 
for rare occasions. 

No oil or lard should be put into flour as melted 
grease surrounds the cells hindering digestion. 

Soft fried mixtures like "hot cakes" are not desir- 
able, however, the old-fashioned corn cakes are less 
objectionable than those made of wheat flour. 

Whole wheat flour instead of white flour should 
be used for all purposes. It is superior to graham 
flour, as the irritating hull is removed. Every Do- 
mestic Science teacher should exert her influence to 
bring whole wheat flour into popular favor. Its 
value is not so much in the difference in the 
amount of nutriment, but in the kind and the pur- 



i68 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

pose. The organic salts and phosphates are largely 
lost in the bran. Besides this loss in nutriment is 
the "bulk" effect affording relaxation, which is just 
as essential to health and life as is nourishment. 

The prevalence of constipation is due largely to 
the use of white flour, together with the weakening 
influence of the poison from meat, condiments, etc., 
found in daily food. As soon as whole wheat flour 
and unfired bread are adopted in every home, less 
meat and other stimulants will be demanded and the 
first great requisite of normal living and natural re- 
laxation will be fulfilled. 

WHOI^E WHEAT BREAD. 

Heat, but not boil, one-half quart of sweet milk 
and add to it the same amount of water. Omit salt 
and sugar or use very little. Stir into this one cake 
of yeast that has been soaked in one-half cup of 
warm water. Thicken into a soft sponge with whole 
wheat flour and beat five minutes. Put in warm 
place to raise over night. In the morning add whole 
wheat flour to the sponge until it is thick, stirring 
it with spoon instead of making it stiff enough to 
work with the hands. Put into pans and when light 
bake. One-half cup of cream or nut cream makes 
bread more tender and moist. 



EXACT METHODS. 169 

WHOI.E WHEAT BREAD WITH OATMEAI.. 

One of two cups of oatmeal may be added to the 
whole wheat sponge and the dough made stiff with 
whole wheat flour, then kneaded in the usual way. 

UNIvEAVENED BREAD. 

Unleavened bread is made by mixing cold — very 
cold — water with whole wheat flour, rye meal, corn 
meal, or oatmeal, and working or beating air into 
the dough. It is put into a very hot oven. The 
quick action of the heat expands the moisture, makes 
the bread light and the crust is formed before the 
inside is raised to the boiling point. Unleavened 
bread is the sweetest and most delicious hot bread 
that can be made and as "old-fashioned" things arc 
now popular this kind of bread should displace the 
baking powder biscuit so much used. 

UNLEAVENED ROI.I.S. 

Mix whole wheat flour with cold water to a stiff 
dough. Knead thoroughly until the dough becomes 
elastic or spongy and will not stick to the bread 
board. Roll one inch thick and cut with a biscuit 



I70 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

cutter, take out the center with a small cutter, leav- 
ing a circle. Prick with fork and bake quickly on 
grate of oven or hot greased pan. 

UNIvEAVENED GEMS. 

Into a pint of cold water or milk stir whole wheat 
flour to make a thin batter. Beat thoroughly to in- 
corporate air. Drop into hot iron gem pans and 
bake quickly. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Sift three cups of whole wheat flour into a bowl. 
Stir into it cold sweet milk and one-half cup of cold 
sweet cream to make a stiff dough. Turn out upon 
a floured moulding board and knead, fold, and 
stretch and beat with roller to work in as much air 
as possible, making the dough light and springy. 
Roll one-half inch thick and prick with a fork, cut 
and bake quickly. 

PEANUT BREAD. 

Moisten two cups of flaked wheat or oats with 
boiling water. Use just a little water. Put on a 



EXACT METHODS. 171 

floured board and knead more flaked wheat into it 
until it can be rolled and cut into round cakes. Put 
into a pan. Press raw peanuts upon the top of the 
cakes until each piece is covered. Put into a hot 
oven a few minutes to heat through and start to 
roast the nuts, then dry crisp in a slow oven. 

These may be eaten cold with butter or be warmed 
quickly in an oven for luncheon and breakfast. As 
they keep well, they may be ready for emergencies. 
Other kinds of nuts may be used but should be dried 
more slowly. 

Dipping the nuts in white of eggs makes them 
adhere better. 

UNI.EAVENED CORN BREAD. 

Scald two cups of corn meal with boiling water. 
Leave the dough thick. Make into cakes and bake. 

UNIvEAVENED BROWN BREAD. 

Scald three cups of corn meal, add to it one-half 
cup molasses and two eggs. Stir very thick with 
whole wheat flour or flaked wheat. Pack into a 
buttered pail and cook all day in fireless cooker or 
four hours in double boiler. Dry in oven and eat 
warm or cold. It keeps well. 



172 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

UN^IRED BREAD. 

"Unfired Bread" is the term used by the manu- 
facturers of a bread or cracker that is made from a 
combination of cereals, nuts and fruit sometimes be- 
ing added, and dried, but not baked. This bread 
will soon be sold by all grocersl It is convenient 
and nutritious as well as being delicious to the taste 
after it is used for a short time. It should be used 
with nut butter or with dairy butter and two or 
three cakes suffice for a meal. 

Unfired bread may be made at home as follows: 
Pour a very little boiling water upon about three 
\pups of rolled oats or wheat. When just moist add 
more cereal until it is thick enough to work and 
roll; chopped dates, nuts, figs, or raisins may be 
added. Cut in oblong cakes. Raise each from the 
board with a knife and place in pans to be dried 
slowly in the oven or the sun. Turn once while 
drying. 

In sections where light whole wheat bread is never 
made and colored cooks will not make unleavened 
bread, the bread question is best solved by the use 
of unfired bread most of the time, with corn bread 
and whole wheat biscuits for variety and cooked 
meals. Baking powder and lard can be avoided. A 



EXACT METHODS. 173 

little sour cream is cheaper than lard for shortening 
if any is demanded. The top of a pint of cream 
can be prevented from becoming old by stirring it 
well each day. Nut cream is very nice with the 
flavor of the whole wheat. 

TOAST. 

Toast is considered separately from bread, as it 
enters into so many combinations making a complete 
meal, and the ordinary methods of cooking are lia- 
ble to devitalize all of the ingredients. 

Common toast is not so nutritious as is usually 
imagined, as at best some of the cells are burned into 
ash, however, the craving of the ash is responsible 
for the desire for toast when other food is distaste- 
ful, as in sickness. The poison of the ash in small 
quantities acts as a mild stimulant and if toast is 
well combined with milk, eggs, cheese, nuts, etc., it 
becomes a permissable foundation for many lunch- 
eon or breakfast dishes where light bread would 
otherwise be entirely discarded. 

No article or diet requires more skill in its prep- 
aration than toast. It should be made from freshly 
sliced light bread or whole wheat bread not too new 
for firmness. It must be seared to a golden brown 



174 SCIENTIFIC LIVING, 

quickly on one side only, before a hot fire, in a gas 
toaster, or on a hot stove or a heavy griddle. In 
this way the inner cells are not raised to a high 
degree of heat. If it is desired hard and crisp it 
should be put into a slow oven to dry gradually, 
then buttered. When bread is buttered and placed 
in a hot oven to toast, the high degree of heat 
required for browning and drying destroys the life 
in the proteid cells which have been protected in the 
first baking, as well as decomposing the fat globules 
of the butter. 

MILK-TOAST. 
Bread. Butter. 

Milk. Flour. 

Toast six slices of bread to golden brown. Heat one pint 
of milk over hot water. Dissolve a table-spoon of flour in a 
little cold milk and add to the hot milk. Stir until it thickens. 
Add to this one table-spoon of butter. Pour over the toast 
and serve in individual hot plates. 

GRANDMOTHER'S MILK-TOAST. 
Bread. Butter. 

Milk. Flour. 

Heat one pint milk, stir into it one table-spoon flour, add 
spoon of butter. Do not let it boil but stir as it gradually 
thickens. Season to taste and put into it slices of untoasted 
bread allowing it to simmer but not burn or boil, for ten 
minutes. 

CHEESE-TOAST. 
Bread. Butter. Cheese. 



EXACT METHODS. 175 

Butter six slices of bread and cover with grated cheese. 
Put upon a heavy griddle and toast to a golden brown on the 
bottom side. As the toasted side becomes crisp the butter and 
cheese are melted but not injured by heat, making a nutritious 
and delicious rarebit. 

Cheese may be slowly melted in the oven on dry buttered 
toast. 

EGG-TOAST. 

Bread. Butter. Eggs. 

Toast and butter six slices of bread. Scramble three eggs 
and serve one table-spoonful on each slice of toast. 

POACHED EGG TOAST 

Bread. Butter. Eggs. 

Cream. 
Toast and butter six slices of bread; dry in the oven until 
crisp. Poach six eggs and serve one on each slice of toast, 
covering each egg with a spoonful of hot cream. 

CREAM-TOAST. 

Bread. Butter. Cream. 

Toast and butter six slices of bread. Pour over them one 
cup of hot cream. If preferred sweet, one teaspoon of sugar 
may be added to the cream. Milk is more desirous than cream 
when sugar is used as it is not so rich or heating. 

NUT-TOAST. 

Bread. Butter. Nutmeats. 

Toast and butter six slices of bread. Melt the butter on 
the toast in the oven. While hot cover thickly with ground 
nut-meats. 



176 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

ENGLISH WALNUTS AND TOAST 

Bread. Butter. Nuts. 

Cream. Parsley. 

Toast and butter six slices of bread ; dry crisp in the oven. 
Dip a dozen nuts in melted butter, turning them from side to 
side until slightly heated through. Cover each slice of toast 
with a spoon of hot cream and serve two nuts on each slice. 
Garnish with a sprig of parsley. 

GOLDEN-BALL TOAST. 

Bread Butter. Hard cooked eggs. 

Milk. Flour. Lettuce. 

Toast and butter six slices of bread ; simmer six eggs until 
they are hard; thicken one pint of milk with two table spoons 
of flour and season with, butter. To the thickened milk add 
the shredded whites of the eggs and pour over the toast on 
individual hot plates. Upon each slice of toast place a curley 
leaf of lettuce, holding the unbroken yolk of the egg, or the 
yolk may be pressed through a seive, and heaped upon the 
lettuce leaf. A few drops of lemon juice may be added to the 
yolk. 

CEREALS. 

The proper cooking of cereals, or breakfast foods, 
is most important as they abound in tissue building 
proteid and other elements that are destroyed by 
boiling, as well as being rich in starch for energy 
that should be digested largely in the mouth during 
mastication. The usual soft mushes, being so hastily 
swallowed do not permit the necessary action of 



EXACT METHODS. 177 

the saliva, hence must pass through the stomach 
largely unchanged and are not utilized until they 
reach the intestinal juices. Distress is often caused 
from overtaxing the glands that secrete the intestinal 
fluids. For this reason whole wheat and raw flaked 
grains that demand thorough mastication are often 
prescribed as remedies for indigestion, but by scien- 
tific cooking all the requirements of the different 
food elements are fulfilled with but little labor, and 
if eaten slowly are very serviceable. 

Whole kernels of grain, wheat or corn should.be 
soaked over night or longer, then be slowly raised 
to a temperature of 200 degrees for three hours 
or longer if desired softer. The inside of the kernel 
cooks easily. The fibrous hull should not he too 
much softened, as it is intended for bulk. 

As the gluten in broken, or ground kernels of 
grain escapes and dissolves in warm water, making 
a pasty condition that cannot be overcome later, it is 
necessary that the water be hot enough to coagulate 
it instantly to retain it in combination with other 
elements. The water into which the cereal is put 
should be boiling hard, as the cold grain lowers 
the temperature immediately. The stew pan must 
be over the blaze as water will not reach the boiling 
point in double boiler. The cereal should be 



178 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

sprinkled into the water gradually and as it slowly 
thickens it must simmer but not be allowed to boil; 
beat for a moment and put over hot water or in 
double boiler to cook for twenty minutes, or longer 
if desired, but it serves a better purpose if the fibrous 
part is not too much softened. If the cereal is boiled 
for a few minutes the cell wall contracts, rendering 
it tough and indigestible without long cooking. In 
its natural state the cell opens easily by the heat of 
the stomach and in less time when cooked at a 
temperature of 200 degrees. The cereal pudding 
should be light from the expansion of the cell by 
heat, but thick enough to be cut with a spoon, requir- 
ing thorough mastication. Cereals should be served 
with milk or butter, without sugar, as the combina* 
tion of milk, sugar, and starch in the grain some- 
times causes fermentation in the stomach, when the 
food is swallowed rapidly. Sugar is not desired in 
cereals unless it is cultivated from infancy. When 
the cereal is well masticated the starch is changed to 
a kind of sugar in the mouth and absorbed at once, 
hence no bad results may follow from the use of 
sugar, except the tendency to increase the amount of 
sugar and the liability to overeat sweet foods. 
A large amount of soft mush should not he Indulged, 
two or three tablespoonfuls being plenty for one 



EXACT METHODS. 179 

meal, with other food. Raw flaked wheat or oats 
with milk is more delicious than most people 
imagine. 

UNCOOK^ C^EAI,, 

Add flaked wheat or oats — ^two tablespoons — ^to 
half a cup of milk, and eat it while crisp. 

FRUIT AND UNCOOKED CER^AI,. 

Mix chopped dates, raisins, or very ripe sliced 
bananas from which the pith against the skin has 
been scraped, with rolled cereal that has been soaked 
in milk, keeping the mixture thick, and serve with 
thin cream. 

FRUIT PRESSED CEREAL. 

Soak mixed cereals in milk. It should be just 
moist. In the bottom of a bowl put a layer of 
chopped dates, sprinkled with chopped almonds, then 
continue to fill the bowl with alternate layers of 
fruit, nuts and cereal. Let stand under a press until 
firm, draining off moisture. Turn on plate. Slice 
and serve with cream or milk. This will keep longer 
if prepared with water instead of milk, being ready 
for many breakfasts. 



i8o SCIENTIFIC LIVINa 

EGGS. 

[Season to taste, but use less and less of condi- 
ments.] 

Eggs being almost pure albumen, are easily di- 
gested and quickly appropriated for cell growth 
and repair. The customary very "soft-boiled*' egg 
is not cooked at all, but only heated through, while 
the "hard-boiled" egg has its tissue building element 
destroyed if left long in boiling water. Both the 
white and yolk become tough and indigestible when 
boiled. By care it is possible to cook eggs hard in 
hot water below the boiling point yet retain all of 
their vital elements. They are more perfect when 
put into a stew pan of cold water in a double boiler, 
letting them raise gradually to a heat of 200 de- 
grees. Both white and yolk are heated evenly, be- 
ing gently coagulated for a soft egg, or becoming 
entirely firm if the hard egg is desired. Both white 
and yolk are kept tender in this way with the life 
germ of the cell uninjured. To peel nicely, eggs 
must be dropped into hot water at first. Let stand 
twenty minutes then put into cold water to cool 
quickly. 

Eggs serve many purposes cold, as well as enter- 
ing into numerous combinations, all of which must 



EXACT METHODS. i8i 

be cooked at a temperature of about 200 degrees for 
their perfect coagulation without becoming leathery, 
curdled or lifeless. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Into individual tin pans filled with boiling water 
break six eggs. Put the pans immediately over hot 
water or low heat, letting the eggs cook slowly until 
the white is firm, but not hard ; lift each egg with a 
wire spoon onto a warm platter. Put a piece of 
butter on each yolk, garnish with tiny sprigs of 
parsley and serve immediately. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Eggs. Butter. 

Break six eggs into a flat pan containing one tablespoon 
of melted butter. Cook slowly until the whites are slightly 
firm, slide a fork under each egg turning the top down, in a 
moment scramble all together with the fork and serve hot 
Scrambled eggs should be all coagulated yet soft and light, 
instead of being leathery. They cook more evenly over hot 
water. 

FRENCH POACHED EGGS. 

Milk. Eggs. 

Butter. Flour. 

Poach six eggs in three cups of milk in a flat pan over 
boiling water. Lift onto a platter with a wire spooti Add 



i82 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

O 

one tablespoonful of butter to the hot milk, soften a table- 
spoonful of flour with cold milk and stir into the milk until 
it is creamy, and pour over the eggs. These may be served 
with toast or crackers if desired.- 

ESCALLOPED EGGS. 
Eggs. Bread. 

Butter. Ground Peanuts. 

Into a well buttered dish place a layer of bread crumbs 
moistened with milk. On this put a thick layer of sliced hard 
cooked eggs covered with melted butter and one raw beaten 
egg. Upon this put minced or ground peanuts and finish with 
bread crumbs. Put into a hot oven a few minutes to brown 
the top then lower the heat, allowing it to bake slowly for 
fifteen minutes. Serve hot in same dish. 



EGG CUTLETS. 




Eggs. 


Butter. 


Tomatoes. 


Flour. 


Onion. 


Parsley. 


Milk. 


Water. 



Split six hard cooked eggs lengthwise ; sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, and lumps of butter. Heat through in a slow oven 
and serve with the following sauce. Heat three tablespoons 
of milk and one-half cup of water; cook in this over boiling 
water one minced onion, two tomatoes, and a sprig of parsley; 
season with butter, and a chopped green pepper. Strain and 
thicken with one heaping teaspoon of flour. Pour over the 
eggs and serve hot. 

STUFFED EGGS. 
Eggs. Lemon Juice. Onion. 



EXACT METHODS. 183 

Remove the shells from six hard cooked eggs; cut them 
through the middle, removing the yolks. Press the yolks 
through a sieve then add to them one minced onion, one table- 
spoon lemon juice, butter and chopped green pepper. Fill the 
whites of the eggs with the mixture and fasten together with 
two toothpicks. Serve cold for luncheon or for picnics. 

FAIRY'S BREATH. 

Eggs. Milk. Butter. 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth ; heat one pint of 
milk over hot water and drop six tablespoons of the frothed 
eggs into it to ^ok slowly; remove when done with a wire 
spoon. Into the remaining white beat two of the yolks, cook- 
ing them in the same manner and placing them upon the whites 
to form a golden center. Pour one-half cup of hot cream into 
which has been stirred a very little butter around each group 
and garnish with white apple blossoms or rose leaves. One 
tablespoon of powdered sugar may be added to the whites 
after they are well beaten if a sweet flavor is desired, for a 
dessert. Grated cheese, or ground nuts over the top makes ^it 
an attractive dinner dish for Sunday dinner. 

LONG-LIFE BEVERAGE. 

Milk. Eggs. 

Heat fresh milk over hot water as hot as can be taken into 
the mouth but not hot enough to entirely coagulate an egg 
before mixing with the milk. With a silver fork beat into 
each cup one tablespoon of the frothedOKrhite of an egg, or the 
whole egg. Serve immediately in the hot cups without sugar. 
This is a most nutritious beverage for weak or nervous people 
as the cell life is at a high degree of activity and can be 
quickly appropriated by the system. This beverage, like most 



O 



i84 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

others, should be sipped slowly with other well masticated food 
of similar nutritious value. 



OMELET, 

Eggs. Milk or Water. 

Butter. Flour. 

Beat two eggs together quite thoroughly. Beat the white 
of another egg to a stiff froth, putting the yolk in with the 
two whole eggs. Moisten one round tablespoonful of flour 
with one tablespoon of cream, milk, or water and add slowly 
to the frothed whites. Take the eggs that have been beaten 
together and whip slowly into the white. Turn into two well 
buttered flat pans, allowing it to set without touching it over 
slow fire, or over hot water. The one frothed white will make 
the omelet light without being too fluffy, while flour and cream 
add body and nutriment as well as a better flavor than eggs 
alone. As soon as the omelet sets fold one-half lightly over 
the other by slipping a thin knife under the edge. Serve 
immediately. 

VEGETABLE OMELET. 

Make a plain omelet as already described. Have prepared 
in another dish a minced onion, pepper, and fresh com or peas 
which have been heating slightly in butter for about ten min- 
utes. Just before folding the omelet put a layer of this on top 
and fold inside. Serve with hot cream into which a lump 
of butter has been melted. 

FRUIT OMELET. 

Fruit omelet is made in the same way except that minced 
fruit is inside and it is served with cream, with or without 
sugar. 



EXACT METHODS. 185 

One or two eggs at a meal as a steady ar- 
ticle of diet serve a better purpose than eight or ten 
taken at a time for a spell, until the appetite turns 
against them. Too much of any one thing is not 
desirable. The soft egg should be in daily use, 
while the hard egg and fluffy mixtures are for lux- 
uries. 

CHEESE. 

Cheese is one of the most convenient of tissue 
building foods, as it may be used at any time with- 
out preparation, however it is not appreciated or 
wisely used as an article of diet and is often ren- 
dered useless by improper cooking. Cheese is easily 
melted in a moment at a temperature of 200 de- 
grees or less for the purpose of combination, but its 
proteid cells are killed and the whole substance is 
tough and leathery when it is left standing in hot 
mixtures or toasted brown. Cheese is most whole- 
some grated and sprinkled over other food to give 
it meat value, or served in thin slices with unfired 
wafers without being subjected to heat, more than 
that required in its first making, which is a very low 
degree. It may be melted a very little for rarebit in 
the oven and be removed quickly before being heated 
to the boiling point or browning. As cheese is con- 



i86 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

densed food only a small piece should be eaten at 
a meal. Too much is dangerous as it tends to con- 
stipation. Occasionally dinner should close with a 
bit of cheese and a wafer, following fruit and salad, 
which serve as bulk for it. Various luncheon dishes 
are easily prepared from cheese, as well as sub- 
stantial dinner dishes having meat value. Macaroni 
is associated with cheese. It is made from the center 
of the wheat kernel, hence is very nutritious. It is 
subjected to heat in the process of making, but not 
to the degree of boiling, and in all preparations it is 
light, tender, and vital when cooked in a double 
boiler with cheese added after it is drained and 
ready to serve. When the top is desired brown it is 
best accomplished by covering it with the frothed 
white of egg over which is sprinkled a very little 
grated cheese for decoration. This browns very 
quickly in toasting oven without heating the interior 

intensely hot. 

CHEESE DAINTY. 
Cream. Cheese. 

Gelatine. Lettuce. 

Salad Dressing. 
Whip a cup of cream until light. Dissolve one tablespoon 
of gelatine in a little hot water and beat it, when cool, with 
half a cup oi grated cheese into the cream. Pour into small 
moulds to become firm. Serve on lettuce leaves with salad 
dressing. 



EXACT METHODS. 187 

WELCH RAREBIT. 

Cover the center of a dozen wafers with grated cheese; 

melt quickly in a hot oven. Serve at once. The least bit of 

heat melts cheese enough to adhere to the wafer. Then it 

must be removed immediately before it is even heated through. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Macaroni. Cheese. 

Butter. Milk. 

Cook two cups of broken macaroni until tender in plenty 
of hot water in double boiler. The water should be at the 
boiling point when the macaroni is dropped into it but it must 
not boil afterwards. The heat must be kept steady at 200* or 
a little above. When it is tender drain; add butter, a cup of 
milk, and a cup of grated cheese. Two eggs may be added to 
the milk if desired. It is very nice served with tomato salad. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 
Cheese. Milk. 

Butter. Flour. 

Eggs. 
Thicken one cup of milk with one tablespoon of flour ; add 
one tablespoon butter. Remove from over the hot water and 
stir into the mixture two well beaten eggs ; cover the top with 
the well beaten white of an egg after putting into a bake dish 
and bake in a slow oven until it becomes firm but do not let 
boil. When served sprinkle with grated cheese and garnish 
with sprigs of parsley. 

CHEESE RAMOKIN. 

Bread. Eggs. 

Milk. Butter. 

Onion and Green Pepper. Cheese. 



i88 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Soak a cup of fresh bread crumbs in a pint of sweet milk. 
Heat over hot water and add two tablespoons butter, a little 
chopped green pepper and onion. Remove from the hot water 
and add the beaten yolks of four eggs then fold in the whites. 
Turn into a buttered dish and bake slowly. These combina- 
tions cook perfectly over hot water hence do not need to be 
baked at all unless it is desirable to serve them in the pudding 
dish. Upon serving sprinkle with grated cheese. 

CHEESE ON TOAST. 
Bread. Butter. 

Cheese. Milk. 

Make any kind of milk toast. Sprinkle with grated cheese. 
Cheese straws are not desirable. 

Cheese dishes are rich and nutritious and as the 
flavor of cheese is tempting to those who like it 
the tendency is to overeat and suflFer from indiges- 
tion and constipation, then decide that cheese is not 
healthy. It is wise to eat prudently else a dislike 
may be cultivated for many of the tissue building 
foods, while the right use of them insures long life. 

NUTS AND NUT DISHES OF MEAT VAI,UE. 

Nuts are not appreciated as a standard food ex- 
cept by those who have discarded meat. They con- 
tam a larger amount of proteid than meat, with less 
danger of the cells being killed by heat, besides being 
well balanced in the otheT elements. As meats tends 



EXACT METHODS. 189 

to produce old age conditions one of the first steps 
in scientific living should be to cultivate the habit of 
eating nuts instead of meat. Nuts serve a better 
purpose if served naturally — ^being taken from the 
shells as they are eaten than when cooked. It is 
restful and poetic to linger over a plate of nuts and 
fresh fruit. When nut-meats are served alone they 
are often eaten too rapidly and too many are in- 
dulged. Nuts are rich in fat and being condensed 
food must be eaten in moderation and be well masti- 
cated. Eight or a dozen medium sized nuts are 
enough for a meal with other food. Children 
should not be allowed to eat all the nuts they can 
at one time, as is so often done because they have 
been classed with sweetmeats. Nuts may enter into 
many combinations after being ground, chopped or 
crushed. Dishes in which nuts are used should be 
baked very quickly before the nuts become heated 
through, or the first heat should be lowered to 200 
degrees as soon as the material is hot, and the baking 
continued slowly. Nuts may be blanched by pour- 
ing boiling water over them then in a few moments 
turn it off, or they may be soaked over night in 
cold water. Many like the nut-meats soaked in cold 
water before serving them, as they are more tender. 
In roasting peanuts the first heat should be strong 



I90 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

to penetrate the shell, then it should be lowered to 
200 degrees for steady cooking. Chestnuts should 
be cooked at the same degree of heat over hot water. 
These nuts may be used uncooked, and all kinds of 
nuts are best suited to uncooked dishes or are 
sprinkled over food after it is cooked, giving meat 
value. 

Nuts may be ground, mixed with mayonnaise 
dressing, and spread between thin slices of bread 
or wafers for sandwiches, with or without a lettuce 
leaf. Dates may be chopped and added to ground 
nuts, then be used in the same way for sandwiches, 
or be heaped in wafer tarts and covered with 
whipped cream for dessert. Nut butter is a standard 
food. It is made by grinding nuts in a closely ad- 
justed mill. 

Nuts added to salads give them full food value, 
as they supply the tissue building element that is 
lacking in g^een vegetables. 

Hard shell nuts should be cracked before serv- 
ing; soft varities may be served from cut glass 
dishes, be broken by silver nut crackers, and ex- 
tracted with silver nut picks. 

NUT LOAF. 
English Walnuts. Bread-crumbs. 

Milk. Sage. 

Butter. Eggs. 



EXACT METHODS. 191 

One cup of English walnuts; one cup of dry bread or 
cracker crumbs soaked in one cup of milk; lump of butter, 
dash of sage and two well beaten eggs. Beat all together 
and bake slowly in a pudding dish or in a double-boiler. Serve 
hot. 

NUT CREAM OR GRAVY. 
Put a teaspoon of nut butter into a cup. Add a few drops 
of water and rub until it is smooth. Add more water grad- 
ually until of the consistency of cream. Use as cream in 
vegetables or heat carefully for gravy. It may be thinned 
still more and be like milk. The best milk is made from 
almonds. It is said that a chemist cannot tell milk when made 
from almonds from real milk. 

NUT-MEAT CAKES. 
Potatoes. Tomatoes. 

Eggs. Butter. 

Peanuts. Crackers. 

To one cup of mashed potatoes add one-half cup of 
strained tomatoes, two eggs, one tablespoon of butter, one cup 
of cracker crumbs, one-half cup of crushed peanuts. Make 
into cakes and broil on buttered pan. 

NUT CUTLETS. 

Potatoes. Butter. 

Cheese. Eggs. 

Crackers. Nuts. 

Slice cold simmered potatoes into large thick slices. Dip 
into beaten eggs, roll in cracker crumbs, and broil quickly on 
buttered pan; arrange. on hot platter. Sprinkle with grated 
cheese and let stand for a moment in the oven. Sprinkle 
again with chopped nuts and garnish with parsley. Serve 
immediately. 



192 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

NUT-STUFFED EGG PLANT. 
Tie egg plant in cheese-cloth and simmer in double boiler 
until tender. Take out the inside. To a part of this pulp add 
two eggs, two cups of whole wheat bread cut fine, tablespoon 
of butter, one minced onion, dash of sage and green peppers, 
one cup of chopped nuts and enough milk to moisten. Stuff 
the shell and bake half an hour. Serve on a platter filled with 
lettuce leaves. Put slices of lemon upon the lettuce. 

PECAN PIE, 
Arrange a circle of simmered rice upon a hot platter. In 
the center place simmered carrots cut into dices and dressed 
with nuC-cream and butter. Cover thickly with half pecan 
meats. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

COCOANUT PIE-CRUST. 
(Mrs. Anderson.) 
A rich and very delicious pie-crust may be made as folr 
lows: Mix one part of grated cocoanut with two parts of 
whole-wheat flour and water, the colder the better, sufficient 
to make a stiff dough; knead five minutes, then add one part 
boiled rice, and mix thoroughly. 

VEGETABLE PIE. 
Cook sliced potatoes, onions and celery in a double-boiler 
until nearly tender. Add a lump of butter and a cup of whole 
English walnuts. Nearly cover with milk or cream. Put into 
a pudding dish covering the top with a rolled wheat or cocoa- 
nut pie crust and bake quickly. The crust will bake before the 
inside boils. 

TOMATO SOUFFLE. 
Chop three tomatoes and one onion fine and mix with one 
cup of finely cut whole wheat bread or crumbs. Add a teaspoon 
of nut butter, one-half cup of thin cream and the beaten 



EXACT METHODS. 193 

whites and yolks of two eggs. Bake carefully until the eggs 
are done. Cover with pecan meats and serve on lettuce leaves. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 
(Mrs. Anderson.) 
Boil and mash a quart of potatoes, moisten with a pint of 
hot milk, beat separately the whites and yolks of three eggs; 
add the yolks to the potatoes, whisk the whites to a froth, 
and add just before cooking. Put the mixture on a large 
dinner plate and bake fifteen minutes. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 
(Mrs. Anderson.) 
Take of peanuts, rolled fine, one cupful, stir a half table- 
spoonful of butter with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, to a 
cream; add one-fourth teaspoonful of salt and one table- 
spoonful lemon juice, a tablespoonful of cream or milk and the 
finely chopped white of the egg ; a cup of finely chopped apples 
can be used if desired. Put this mixture between thin slices 
of bread, and cut in diagonal shape, removing the crust. 

NUT SALADS. 
An endless variety of nut salads may be made from 
combinations of fresh green vegetables and nuts, also from 
nuts and fruit 



MEAT. 

Meat is the most common of the tissue building 
foods; however, it is not essential to life, or even 
a desirable nutriment It is not the kind of food 
that will maintain the< normal strength for many 
years or aid in accumulating vitality to prolong the 



194 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

term of human life. In fact, it has long been known 
that the exoessive use of meat, especially that in 
which every cell is dead, or devitalized, by long cook- 
ing, is one of the causes of the "old-age disease.'' 
It dogs and overworks the digestive organs to digest 
it, besides introducing into the system various 
poisons and leaving sediment or ash that settles in 
the arteries and around the joints, producing the 
stiffness and inaction of old age. 

The living cells of meat are quickly appropriated 
by the human organism, thus seem to be a service- 
able food, but as they are already fully developed, 
and many of them near the close of their natural 
cycle, they are not as enduring or as long lived 
as those of the vegetable kingdom. In addition to 
the inherent weakness of the cells that are appropri- 
ated, a great number of the cells in every piece of 
meat have already been used and are ready to be 
cast off as waste. Some of these escape in the 
blood, but many of them enter the human system. 
The struggle and stress of death, especially under 
fear and cruelty, as in a long chase, exhaust numer- 
ous cells and generate poison from overheating the 
blood. All the cells are thus impressed with horror 
and death, instead of with freshness and youth, as 
is essential for longevity or even health. 



EXACT METHODS. 195 

Because of the unstable condition of flesh food 
it should not be depended upon by those who aspire 
to cultivate strength and long life. 

Meat is quite generally thought to be a "strong" 
food, while in reality it is a "weak" food. 

In regard to meat as a food and its poisons, Dn 
Latson, Editor of Health Culture, says : 

'While it is a fact that the flesh of the animal 
contains certain food elements, proteids, fats and 
salts, it also contains various waste and poisonous 
substances produced in the animal's body. These 
substances include various ptomaines, leukomaines, 
and xanthins, creating uric acid and other excre- 
mentitious products. 

''Like other animals, man himself generates these poisonous 
matters; and like other animals, he is provided with organs 
of depuration for their removal. But when, in addition to the 
poisons made by his own body, he takes in the excreta and 
poisonous waste matters of another animal, he is subjecting 
his organism to an unnatural and dangerous strain. The 
excrementitious matter taken into his system necessitates an 
immensely increased work on the part of his own eliminating 
organs — skin, lungs, bowels and kidneys. Often these excre- 
tory organs are unable to carry off their double load. The 
matter then accumulates in the system, producing acute and 
chronic disease. In an acute disease, "colds" or other fever, 
bilious attacks, sick headache or diarrhoea, the matter is ex- 
pelled through a spasmodic effort on the entire organism. Or 
the poisonous matter eaten as food and not excreted may be 



M I 



igS SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

retained indefinitely, causing various chronic diseases. A diet 
containing an excess of flesh meat produces congestion and 
enlargement of the liver and the so-called arthritic or gouty 
diathesis. The presence of an excess of uric acid, creatin or 
other excrementitious substances is now known to be the 
immediate cause of many painful and dangerous diseases. 

"So far from being a 'strong* food, flesh meat is, strictly 
speaking, not a food, but a nutro-stimulent. The meat of the 
animal contains food and poisons. The food we can use. 
The poisons we must excrete, and in the effort to get rid of 
these irritating poisons the organism is throy^rn into a state of 
excitation, which is mistaken for strength. As a matter of 
fact, it is like the 'strength* that comes from alcohol. It may 
be mentioned that meat taken in excess by one unaccustomed 
to its use will produce effects similar to those of alcohol and 
other toxic drugs. Among these effects may be mentioned 
excitation, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, drowsiness and coma. 

"It is a demonstrable fact that the heart of the habitual 
meat eater beats from 72 to 80 a minutes, while that of a 
person living on a pure diet of fruit, nuts and fresh green 
vegetables will beat at least ten less a minute. Fifteen hundred 
extra heart strokes every twenty-four hours makes a very 
appreciable strain upon the vital force. 

"The strongest argument against the use of flesh meat is 
that to eat the animal's flesh is to eat the animal's excreta, 
which is inseparable from it" 

In verification of this idea Dr. Guilfoy, of the health 
department, says in the Medical Record that the meat eating 
nations have the highest rate of mortality from cancer, heart 
disease, and Bright's disease. 

Numerous authorities might be given to show that 
meat and other stimulents used as food are responsi- 



EXACT METHODS. 197 

ble for the cell deterioration so early in life. A little 
of the deadly poisons like strychnine may be taken 
for years without causing immediate death of the 
individual, but cell death is increased, the natural 
action gradually paralyzed, and cell reproduction 
hindered, hence the inevitable is slow death, which 
is even worse torture than sudden death. The same 
is true of the action of the poison in meat, alcohol, 
condiments and other substances found in daily use. 
It is the aim of this work to separate the "gold from 
the dross" and show that the food intended to sus- 
tain life is more desirable from every standpoint 
than that which is injurious, and that there is no ele- 
ment of sacrifice in avoiding things which impair 
and shorten life, as well as lower the standard of 
morality. 

Besides the danger of the animal's excreta in meat 
many kinds of disease are found among animals. 
Tuberculosis is one of the most common diseases 
that may be transferred to the human system from 
the use of meat and impure milk. Ca«ined meat is 
very liable to be made from the meat of discarded 
animals. It frequently causes violent sickness and 
death. Notwithstanding the laws passed to pro- 
tect the public from diseased meat, ways will be 
found to violate them as long as the desire for 



198 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

"gain" is greater than the desire to protect human 
life. 

Many practical tests of strength prove conclu- 
sively that non-meat eating people have a greater 
power of endurance than those who depend upon 
meat for strength. These experiments have been 
tried, not only among individuals where the train- 
ing and mental attitude has much to do with accu- 
mulating vitality, but among nations. The non- 
meat eating nations excel in health and strength. 

In India, China, Japan, and adjacent countries 
there are about 400,000,000 people who live almost 
entirely without meat. They are capable of doing 
an immense amount of physical labor without 
fatigue, thus proving that meat is not essential as 
food. 

The peasants of Russia live without meat. The 
sturdy Scotch Highlander maintains his strength on 
oatmeal, vegetables, and buttermilk. The Greek and 
Roman soldiers, during the years of greatest power 
of the nations, were kept upon a vegetable diet. 
Many of the best German soldiers to-day subsist 
with a meatless diet. 

The Greek athletes were trained without meat, 
and in the athletic world to-day the importance of 
avoiding meat and stimulents of all kinds is well 



EXACT METHODS. 199 

known. In all of the most severe competitions the 
prizes are won by those who are trained on a simple 
meatless diet. The system is kept as free as possi- 
ble from an excess of food that is not utilized to 
the best advantage. Even the prize fighter regu- 
lates his appetite more perfectly than many who 
would feel that it was not to their credit to witness 
his feats. Even the football and baseball teams re- 
alize the value of avoiding stimulants, meat, rich 
food and deteriorating habits, in developing physical 
strength. The exact reason why may not be fully 
understood by many young peopJe, but, after ex- 
periencing the fresh, free, vital feeling natural to 
a system well nourished, but not loaded with heavy 
deadening, poisonous waste, and excitants, the 
false conditions of life are not desired. A boy who 
is a baseball enthusiast may unconsciously cultivate 
moral habits for the sake of reserving and increas- 
ing his vital force that will put his mother, who is 
a good prohibitionist, to shame, as every day she 
must be "braced up" by the stimulating influence of 
tea, coffee, and beefsteak. If the "antis" attempted 
to pass a law to protect her and her boy, she would 
resent being deprived of her stimulant, but she will 
not object to being educated away from the de- 
sire for It. 



1 



200 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Just think for a moment of the slavery to which 
the appetite for meat and stimulants subject women. 
If they go to church without a cup of coffee they 
have sick headache; if the preacher comes to dinner 
the faithful hen that has eaten all the green worms 
from the tomato vines must be cooked for him. If 
"two-bits'' is to be raised to decorate the altar a 
dozen women roast themselves baking turkeys and 
mince pies. When missionary money is needed to 
save the cannibals from eating human flesh it is 
necessary to serve innocent school children "chili" 
at five cents a dish until their little stomachs remind 
them of the hot place the Sunday-school teacher 
warns them against. Upon club days fathers, broth- 
ers and husbands sulk if they do not find a fat steak 
or a nice tender roast for dinner. 

The dear women are not to blame for these condi- 
tions, as they are reared to think them right, just 
as the cannibal is reared with an appetite for human 
flesh. When he knows a better way the truth gradu- 
ally destroys the false desires and he is free. The 
wives and mothers must be the missionaries who will 
prevent the children of the next generation from 
forming many abnormal habits that are deteriorat- 
ing to health and morals. 

Many defend the use of meat by claiming that 



EXACT METHODS. 201 

the meat eating nations are the most intelligent. If 
this is so meat has not been the cause of the superior 
intelligence. They use more of it because they 
can better afford the expense of it, just as they use 
more of all kinds of rich food and intoxicating 
drinks. The same people free from these things 
would be even more intelligent. Pythagoras, Plato, 
Seneca, Paracelsus, Spinoza, Peter Boyle, and Shel- 
ly were vegetarians. Many of the most noted brain 
workers of to-day are non-meat eaters, hence it is 
clearly not essential to mental or physical vigor. 

Biological data also indicates from the shape of 
the teeth, the length and construction of the ali- 
mentary canal, and other conditions, that man is 
not intended to be a meat-eating animal. 

The moral influence of avoiding meat, or gradu- 
ally using less of it, is one of the strongest points 
to consider, in all religious and educational move- 
ments. When less meat is used, animals will be 
better bred — ^kept in more normal and healthful con- 
tions, and painlessly executed. 

The great mass of laborers who now work in 
packeries, living in poverty and intemperance, would 
gradually take up agricultural or other congenial 
pursuits. 

The same land that is now leased for large pas- 



202 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

tures wotdd be broken up into small farms, and 
yield much greater income from small grains, fruit, 
nuts and cotton, and the condition of the laborer, 
and his family, be much improved and more desir- 
able. There would be no loss, but rather a gain, to 
the business world, by such a change. 

The expense of meat and the labor required to 
prepare it for food is another reason why it should 
be avoided. Beans, peas, nuts, cheese, cereals, eggs, 
and milk should be used in the place of meat. They 
have higher nutritive value and are less expensive. 
These combined with fresh fruits and fresh 
vegetables, afford many pleasing variations. 

As it can hardly be expected that the use of meat 
will be abandoned suddenly, mothers must use judg- 
ment in substituting other things in its place until 
it is gradually forgotten. Reduce it to once a day, 
then to twice a week, then in a short time to once a 
week, but never tell the members of the family they 
can never have it again. Let them know that they 
can have it as long as they want it. After a while, 
as new combinations become habitual, they cease to 
ask for meat. They do not miss it, hence the change 
is made without friction. Children should be kept 
from cultivating a taste for it then it will never need 
to be overcome and they will be saved much suffer- 
ing later in life. 



EXACT METHODS. 203 

When meat must be used it should be simply 
cooked — ^broiled rare, or a pot roast in the jfireless 
cooker. Meat pies, dumplings, rich gravies, and 
fried meats should never be thought of. 

VEGETABI^ES. 

All kinds of food not belonging to the animal 
or semi-animal division are classed as vegetables, 
and when rightly proportioned will sustain life. 

The tissue building vegetables include the cereals, 
nuts, dry beans, peas, and lentils. Most of the other 
vegetables contain a very small per cent of proteid, 
but are intended to serve other purposes mainly. 

The starch of vegetables, such as potatoes, rice, 
tapioca, and a large per cent of beans, peas, and 
cereals produces energy and heat, belonging to the 
carbohydrate class. 

The green or succulent vegetables usually consid- 
ered so healthy are not so because of their nutritive 
value, but because of their organic mineral matter 
and salts ; however, some of them have more nutri- 
tive value than others, as the carrot, turnip, parsnip, 
squash and pumpkin, having starch, sugar, and a 
little proteid, are substantial foods. 

The succulent vegetables and fruits so rich in 
mineral matter and salts purify the blood and aid in 



204 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

maintaining the normal action of the organs and di- 
gestive fluids. They are composed largely of dis- 
tilled water that dissolves the substance tending to 
settle in the arteries and joints producing old age. 
The mineral matter is utilized by the cells in growth 
and the fibrous substance is the hay of human beings 
serving as bulk to suspend and carry the living cells 
along, as well as to brush the lining of the intestinal 
tract and absorb and cast off poison that otherwise 
would enter the system. The juice of green vege- 
tables and ripe fruit is also antiseptic. The germs of 
consumption and other diseases cannot thrive when 
plenty of onions and spinach and fruit are eaten. 

Greens and succulent vegetables should not be 
cooked in the ordinary way as the chemical value is 
changed by boiling — ^the minerals are set free and 
become inorganic, thus do not serve the same pur- 
pose as nature intended, besides much of the sub- 
stance being lost in the water. Boiling also softens 
the fibre, depriving the system of its purifying agent 
as well as adding a sloppy mass of soft food that 
is worse than valueless. When the sins of cooking 
are realized the great amount of sickness is easily 
understood. It is not a hard matter to follow the 
laws of health when the purpose of food is known. 
Simple fresh salads from leaves that grow in the sun- 
light should form a part of every dinner. While sue- 



J 



EXACT METHODS. 205 

culent vegetables should not be cooked soft, they may 
be heated in hot water until transparent to make 
hot salad. Greens are usually better after the hot 
water has taken away the bitter principle. Cabbage, 
radishes, lettuce, spinach, green peas, cucumbers, 
asparagus, sweet peppers, parsley, dandelions, 
onions, and celery may be served raw or some of 
them may be heated for hot salad. 

As but few people realize the great amount of 
organic mineral elements and salts that may be de- 
stroyed in food by improper cooking, the following 
table is quoted from Mr. Anderson's valuable work 
on "Health Foods." There are many other ele- 
ments in each kind of food, but these are of greatest 
importance : 

GRAINS OF POTASH AND PHOSPHATES PER 

POUND. 
Potash. Phosphoric Acid. 

Bran 93.1 201.6 

Beans 8a5 55.3 

Flax Seed 72.8 91.0 

Peas 68.6 61.6 

Rye Flour 45.5 59.5 

Cabbage-Heads 42.0 . 14.0 

Barley Flour 40.6 66.5 

Potato 39.2 12.6 

Beets 30.1 5.6 

Oatmeal 29.4 38.5 

Carrots 224 t:j 

Turnips 21.0 7.7 



2o6 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

The tissue building and energy producing vege- 
tables, as peas, beans, cereals, turnips, squash, 
pumpkins, potatoes, rice, parsnips, etc., should be 
cooked tender in a double boiler to save the living 
cell as well as the chemical value. Starch is some- 
times more easily utilized cooked than raw, hence 
most starchy foods, especially rice and potatoes, 
should be cooked but the proteid element blended 
with the starch must not be devitalized by boiling. 
Beans and peas cook most perfectly in steady slow- 
heat. Potatoes and rice cook easily when put into 
plenty of hot water with a uniform temperature, but 
must be drained dry as soon as soft. They will not 
be soggy or water soaked if cooked properly. Green 
corn, peas, beans and all canned fruit should be 
cooked for canning just below the boiling point. All 
bacterial life is destroyed and canned goods serve a 
better purpose when not boiled. 

Dry beans and peas are the most valuable tissue 
building vegetables, and should take the place of 
meat to a great extent. The dry bean and pea 
should be used almost constantly or at least every 
other day, and should take the place of so much 
canned goods that are of inferior value and higher 
priced. As beans and peas are concentrated food, 
only a reasonable quantity should be eaten at a 
meal. 



EXACT METHODS. 207 



SIMMERED BEANS AND PEAS. 

Beans and peas should be soaked over night then 
put into cold water in a double boiler. When they 
begin to soften, or in one-half hour, add one-half 
teaspoonf ul soda and turn the water off in five min- 
utes. Just cover again with hot water and let cook 
for three hours or until well done. Season with 
butter. Tomatoes may be added and the cooking 
continued until they become "baked beans'* without 
putting them into the oven. They may be reheated 
in double boiler. 

Beans and peas may also be cooked in fireless 
cooker by leaving them all day or all night. 

Beans and peas cook in a little longer time with- 
out having been soaked. If the juice is desired thick 
and rich, mash one cup of the cooked beans or peas 
through a sieve to remove the hulls, adding the 
smooth pulp to the juice. 

Green beans and peas have but a small per cent 
of tissue building element, but when cooked until 
soft in a double boiler with just enough water to 
barely cover them, and served with cream and but- 
ter they are delicious and serviceable. Green beans 
are better flavored if drained before adding milk 
and butter. 



jo8 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes and rice are the chief starch foods af- 
fording energy and one or the other should form 
a part of nearly every dinner as well as serving 
occasionally for other meals. Rice has 6 per cent, 
of proteid and 77 per cent, of carbohydrate, while 
the potato has but 2 per cent, of the tissue building 
element and 14 per cent, of carbohydrate, hence 
rice is the most valuable as food, but the potato is 
rich in salts of potash for counteracting uric acid 
and purifying the blood, as well as having 60 per 
cent, of distilled water, which is of value in clearing 
the arteries from the sediment producing old age. 
As the tissue building element is small, there is less 
harm in boiling the energy producing foods, espe- 
cially potatoes, than those containing more proteid ; 
however the mineral substance is lost or changed 
and all the elements are easily protected by cooking 
in the double boiler or fireless cooker, hence it is 
wiser, although it requires a little more time. Po- 
tatoes should be mealy and of good quality to be 
wholesome. 

SIMMERED POTATOES. 
Pare six potatoes of equal size and slice them, or divide 
each into six equal parts. Drop into plenty of hot water, and 



EXACT METHODS. 209 

cook in dottble boiler for twenty minutes, or until almost 
tender. Drain thoroughly, returning them to the boiler to keep 
hot and finish cooking without going to pieces. Serve soon. 

BAKED POTATOES. 
Wash six potatoes, dry, and cut a small piece from one end 
to let moisture escape. Place in hot oven for fifteen minutes, 
or until heated through, lowering the heat to 200 degrees to 
finish the baking. Serve with butter. 

CREAM POTATOES. 
Simmer potatoes that are cut into six equal parts, or into 
balls. After draining add one table-spoon of butter and one 
cup of milk. Thicken with one table-spoonful of flour moist- 
ened with milk. One-half cup of grated cheese or nut ineats 
sprinkled over the top of creamed potatoes on the serving 
platter makes a dish of full meat value for dinner. 

REHEATED POTATOES. 
Simmered or baked potatoes may be cut in squares, reheated 
in the oven and then be dotted with butter, cheese or nuts upon 
serving. 

SWEET POTATOES. 
Sweet potatoes should be simmered and dressed with melted 
butter or baked, making a delicious variation of starch foods 
for energy. Cook with jackets on in fireless cooker. 

QUICK RICE. 

Wash one cup of rice through several waters to free *t 
from flour. Soak over night. Cook about twenty minutes in 
plenty of water in a double boiler until nearly tender. Drain 
and shake dry then return to the boiler to keep hot and finish 
softening in a little milk and butter. 

Rice, like cereals, should be dropped into boiling water. 



210 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

quickly coagcilatiiig the outside to prevent the kernels sticking 
together. 

RICE. 
Wash one cup of rice. Put it in very hot water in a 
double boiler or fireless cooker, one inch of rice requiring 
about one inch of water over it to be perfectly absorbed, and 
cook three hours. This requires no watching as it cannot 
dissolve in the water. Serve with butter or cream. Every 
kernel of rice should stand separately instead of being heavy 
and mashed. 

Hundreds of combinations may be made from 
starchy foods, many of which are desirable, but as 
a rule, abnormal and complicated ways of fixing up 
standard substances should be avoided rather than 
courted, their highest value being found in simplic- 
ity. It is more poetic to eat the baked potato from 
the shell with sweet, fresh butter, than to require 
a heated and hurried cook to scoop the inside out, 
mess it up, then stuff it in the shell again to be re- 
heated. 

SALADS. 

[Season if the taste demands it, but let it be very 
little.] 

Salads, like all food material, may be conducive 
to health and long life, or through ignorant and 
careless preparation be rendered useless or injurious. 
Tender bulbs — onions, radishes, etc. — and simple 



EXACT METHODS. 211 

combinations of green leaves that grow in the sun- 
light, dressed with lemon juice and olive oil — af- 
ford the best results for common use, a small amount 
serving as a relish for every dinner and occasionally 
for lunch. More elaborate combinations harmoniz- 
ing in taste, with richer mayonnaise dressings, may 
be used for variation and luxuries. As the combi- 
nations are infinite only a few of each can be given 
here. 

Hot salads from older roots that grow in the 
ground — onions, turnips, beets, carrots, potatoes, 
salsify, etc. — with hot cream dressing are desirable 
for part of the time, but the fresh green leaves 
rich in chlorophyll and mineral salts for purifying 
the blood and aiding in the formation of the diges- 
tive juices are essential to health, although not so 
nutritious as the heavier food vegetables. Many 
people who aspire to be vegetarians make a great 
mistake in attempting to subsist upon the non-nutri- 
tious and semi-nutritious green products, thus suf- 
fering from cell starvation as the tissue building ele- 
ment not supplied by meat must be obtained from 
cereals, nuts, beafts, peas and lentils as well as from 
the semi-animal products like eggs, milk and cheese. 

Salads should be served fresh instead of being 
allowed to stand and become pickled in the dressing. 



212 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Pickles of all kinds are indigestible. They must not 
be mistaken for food, as when freely used they are 
very injurious. Besides the preservative effect of 
vinegar acid upon food, the bacteria of the vinegar, 
when too much is indulged, overpower the protecting 
cells, and as Ralston suggests, "consiune the red cor- 
puscles of the blood," producing aenemic diseases. 
Green leaves dipped in vinegar and shaken retain 
but very little of it, hence it is a mild stimulant, but 
lemon juice is a more natural and wholesome acid 
for all purposes. 

Meats should be avoided in salad. Sugar in dress- 
ing makes the combination richer in flavor, but it is 
less readily acted upon by the gastric juice. 

FRENCH DRESSING FOR SALAD. 
Olive Oil. Lemon Juice. 

To the juice of one-half a lemon beat in slowly in a cool 
place one-half cup of olive oil, or melted butter. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING WITH OIL. 
To the beaten yolks of two eggs add the juice of one-half 
a lemon. Add drop by drop six table-spoons of olive oil. 
When it is thick and cool add one-lialf cup of whipped cream. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING WITHOUT OIL 
Lemon. Eggs. 

Sugar. Flour. 

Butter. Whipped Cream. 

Heat one-half cup of lemon juice and one-half cup of 



EXACT METHODS. 213 

butter. When simmering add to it one-half cup of sugar into 
which has been stirred, dry, two tablespoons of flour. Remove 
from fire as soon as it thickens, adding to it slowly the beaten 
yolks, then the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Whipped 
cream improves the flavor. Sugar may be omitted and the 
flour used by moistening with milk, cream or water. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 

Whipped Cream. White of Eggs. Sugar. 

To one cup of whipped cream add the frothed white of one 

egg. If desired sweet add one tablespoon of sugar. One 

teaspoon of dissolved gelatine cooled and beaten in adds to the 

firmness for many fruit salads. 

HOT SALAD CREAM DRESSING. 
Cream. Butter. 

Heat in double boiler one cup of cream and one tablespoon 
of butter. Pour over hot chopped semi-nutritious vegetables 
and serve immediately. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Lettuce. Eggs. French Dressing. 

Wash fresh leaves of lettuce. Stand in cold water a short 

time to become crisp. Arrange in salad dish and sprinkle with 

the chopped whites of two or three eggs. Cut the yolks in 

halves and place upon the leaves. Dress with French dressing. 

NUT SALAD. 

Apples. Cabbage. 

Onions. Cellery. 

Nuts. Mayonnaise. 

Chop four firm apples. Add to them one cup of chopped 

cabbage, one of celery, one onion, and one cup of chopped 

English walnuts, or pecans. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

To keep from turning dark tie chopped apples and vegetables 



214 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

in wet cloth and place on ice until ready for use. Chopped 
salads should be served on lettuce leaves and be garnished 
with parsley. 

FRUIT SALAD. 
Oranges. Malaga Grapes. 

Pineapple. Dates. 

Whipped Cream. 
Slice oranges on lettuce leaves. Sprinkle with a layer of 
grated pineapple, then a layer of chopped dates. Upon this 
place peeled and seeded malaga grapes. Cover with fruit 
salad dressing and serve very cold. It may be garnished with 
rose leaves. 

HOT SALAD. 
Onions, cabbage, turnips, potatoes, green peas, corn, etc., 
may be sliced or chopped, tied in a cloth and dropped into hot 
water for fifteen minutes then be served hot with hot salad 
cream dressing. The vegetables may be treated singly or in 
various combinations that harmonize. Tomatoes add a pleas- 
ant semi-acid to hot salads. They should have the seeds re- 
moved and be heated only in the cream dressing when ready 
to serve. A spray of parsley is used for garnishing. 

HOT SALAD— GREENS. 
Greens of all kinds should be put into cold water until 
crisp, then dropped into boiling hot water in a double boiler. 
In about twenty minutes the bitter taste is extracted, leaving 
the general chemical condition unchanged and the fiber not 
entirely softened, yet tender. After being drained they can be 
dressed with French dressing, or with butter. As the leaves 
are but little broken the whole bunch of greens should be 
scored with a sharp knife after being put on the platter. They 
may be garnished with sliced lemon or hard eggs. 

IRISH STEW. 
Quarter a head of cabbage and cook for one hour in plenty 



EXACT METHODS. 215 

of hot water to cover it well. It reduces in bulk as it softens, 
hence before adding other things part of the water must be 
poured off, leaving just enough to cover the vegetables when 
pressed down. Add onions, turnips, and potatoes and cook 
another half -hour or until tender. Season to taste, with butter 
and lemon juice or tomatoes. Cook in double boiler or fire- 
less cooker. 

It is well to know that it requires five hours to di- 
gest cooked cabbage, while raw cabbage is digested 
in two and one-half hours, hence hot or cold salad 
serves a better purpose in every way. Only a small 
amount of raw vegetables are required in the sys- 
tem, while it is customary to eat a large amount of 
soft cooked vegetables, increasing labor and expense, 
while the nutrition is not so good. 

I^RUIT. 

Fruit has but a very small per cent, of proteid 
for tissue building, its great value being for chemical 
changes, bulk and energy. It is rich in chemical 
substances for purifying the blood, mineral water 
suited to the uses of the body, and distilled water 
for dissolving the sediment that settles in the arter- 
ies, producing old age from the stiffening of the 
joints and the inaction of the vital, organs. The 
judicious use of fruit, providing other destructive 
or injurious habits are checked, preserves the fresh- 



2i6 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

ness of the skin, the natural action of the digestive 
system, and if enough living cells are supplied with it 
from other food for repair and growth, it keeps up 
the full vigor of the cell life, freeing the blood from 
its usual burden of dead material without depleting 
it. Fruit is also antiseptic. Injurious bacteria can- 
not develop in the digestive tract when the excretory- 
organs are not clogged by excesses and plenty of 
fruit is used. Most kinds of fruit are utilized by the 
liver, kidneys, bowels and skin in an effort to free 
the system of refuse, while the bulk of the pulp 
absorbs and carries poison away with it. When a 
greater amount of fruit than can be passed through 
the intestines is indulged, the bulk with its load of 
poison, if retained long, produces gases, resulting in 
intense pain in the bowels. If nature does not rally 
to afford relief, artificial means must be resorted to, 
but good judgment in the use of food is much wiser. 
The habit of giving children a whole melon, a pan 
of apples, or a dozen bananas at one time is not 
only foolish and dangerous, but it cultivates an ab- 
normal appetite and bad judgment. Fruit should 
be served as a part of every meal instead of being 
eaten without consideration at any and all times 
as is so customary at present. The proper use of 
fruit will do much to emancipate women from the 



EXACT METHODS. 217 

labor of cooking as well as establishing a normal 
appetite and a more refined taste. Nothing is more 
beautiful and pleasing than fresh fruits and green 
vegetables artistically arranged upon the table. The 
time and labor spent in changing fruit from a 
wholesome food to a poisonous and useless mixture 
is pitiful. If the poor deluded woman, perspiring 
over a kettle of apple butter or peach preserves 
lived in India, missionaries would be sent to en- 
lighten her regarding the great sin she is com- 
mitting in preparing mixtures nearly as abnormal as 
the changing of the golden grain into deadly alco- 
hol, but she is one of us and we like "the dram," so 
we rebel against her higher education. Women 
can aid the temperance cause by gradually sub- 
stituting tempting fruits for rich and unhealthy 
combinations that cause fermentation in the sys- 
tem, creating the restless craving that demands 
stimulants. If a mother will deny herself tea, 
coffee, condiments or sweets for one week she will 
have much more sympathy and patience with 
those who are expected to easily check stronger 
habits of indulgence. When a boy has been allowed 
to overeat from early youth he has no judgment to 
control his appetite in any way, hence the great 
necessity of beginning the temperance reform by 



2i8 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

educating the mothers in the chemical value of food 
and the proper amount for nourishment. Eminent 
physicians are already advocating the fruit cure for 
the liquor habit, as it overcomes the abnormal crav- 
ing for intoxicants in a natural way, while pre- 
serves, fruit butters, jam and sweet pickles foster 
intemperance. 

Nature prepares fruit in great diversity, and 
nearly every variety may be selected according to 
the amount of acid required, as the sweet, semi- 
acid of the acid orange, apple or peach. Too much 
acid fruit produces an over-acid condition of the 
system, hence judgment must be used in selecting 
the most suitable kind. The semi-acid varities are 
best suited to general %ise, and may be more freely 
indulged, while the acid and the extremely sweet 
kinds serve for pleasant variations. 

The sweet varieties of juicy fruit and "nature's 
preserves" — dates, figs, raisins and prunes— con- 
tain a large amount of sugar and should be used 
in simple, pleasing preparations, instead of the old- 
fashioned preserves that are so injurious. As the 
dry varieties are more condensed than the juicy 
fruits that are largely water, they should be eaten 
in smaller amounts. 

Lemons are valuable as an antiseptic, but better • 



EXACT METHODS, 219 

results are obtained from the use if one or less each 
day than from half a dozen at a time by spells. 

Ripe bananas contain enough starch and sugar 
to give them good nutritive value, especially when 
served with cream without sugar. They are called 
the "food of the wise men of India," and many of 
these men live long, retaining the freshness of youth. 
They should be thoroughly xipe, better if the skins 
are turning dark. After peeling, scrape off the pith 
adhering to the fruit. 

For preservation, fruit may be dried or it may be 
canned by being heated at a temperature just below 
the boiling point in a double boiler, to prevent set- 
ting the chemical properties free and dissolving the 
fibrous tissue so necessary for bulk in the system 
as well as retaining the shape of the fruit. Some of 
the fruit at present is canned with this precaution. 
As little sugar as possible should be used with 
cooked fruit, and if the juice is desired thick, a few 
pieces of the softened fruit may be put through 
a coUender and the sugar added to it before pour- 
ing It over the rest of the fruit. 

For general use fruit should be served in the 
natural state, care being taken to select only that 
which is ripe and sound. For variation fruit salad 
with cream dressing, fruit jellies moulded with 



220 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

gelatine, iced fruits and simmered fruits give all 
that could be desired without resorting to laborious 
unhealthy mixtures. 

A wineglass of fresh grape, orange or berry juice, 
without sugar, is of great service in preparing the 
stomach for dinner. A very little lemon juice di- 
luted with water, unsweetened, may be used part 
of the time. 

The chemical and nutritive value of fruits will be 
found in another chapter. Special recipes will not 
be given, as any woman can originate pleasing ways 
of arranging or combining fresh fruits for salads 
and jelly moulds suited to the tastes of the family, 
and judge at all times what preparations in common 
use will prolong life and what will hasten old age 
and death. 

Fresh fruit should be served without sugar as a 
rule. Even berries serve a better purpose without 
the usual mixture of cream and sugar. They are 
delicious picked up separately with a silver dagger 
and conveyed to the mouth. Oranges should be cut 
into halves and the pulp dipped out with a spoon, or 
they may be peeled and separated into small sec- 
tions and be lifted with the fingers. They may be 
cut in small sections also. 

Lemons should be sliced and used as a relish in the 



EXACT METHODS. 231 

place of pickles, hot pepper sauces, etc. The thin 
slices being lifted to the mouth with the fingers. 

Pineapples may have their juice extracted by a 
little sugar or may be sliced and chilled with ice, 
being eaten from the hand without sugar. 

Dates may be served naturally or may be stuffed 
—the seed being taken out and a nut meat put in 
its place. They are lifted from a flat cut glass dish 
with the fingers and eaten very slowly. 

Grapes and raisins are served in luscious bunches 
upon the stems from which they are picked as they 
are eaten, the seeds and sometimes the skins being 
discarded. 

Cherries and red currants are lifted to the mouth 
by the stems, from which they are taken artfully 
by the teeth. 

Apples, pears, peaches, apricots, etc., should be 
served on a fruit plate with a silver fruit knife. 
They may be pared and eaten in small pieces, or 
eaten without paring as desired. 

Bananas should be served naturally or with the 
skin rolled half way back. They may also be sliced 
and served with cream. After the skin is removed it 
should be scraped with the back of a knife, removing 
the pith, which is hard to digest. 

Cantaloupes should be cut in halves and filled with 



222 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

chipped ice, or they may be sliced in sections and 
served. The pulp should be cut out with a teaspoon. 

A whole watermelon, if large, need not be served 
at once for a small family because of the belief 
that the cut portion cannot be used as it absorbs 
poison. If properly cut, in round slices, the part 
left in the ice-box can be covered with oiled or plain 
paper, which adheres easily, then the outside trim- 
med well before using from it again. The unbroken 
film prevents poison from being absorbed deeply, 
while too much pulp in the system may become 
clogged and absorbs a much greater amount of 
poison from the intestines than could possibly be 
absorbed from an ice-box, besides overtaxing the 
kidneys to dispose of the water. A medium sized 
piece of melon at the beginning or the close of lunch- 
eon or dinner is of great value in hot weather to pre- 
vent suffering from heat and sluggishness of the 
excretory organs. It may be served in many at- 
tractive ways. 

Dried fruit may be soaked, shaken free from 
water on the outside and eaten raw or it may be 
simmered. 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 223 



CHAPTER XVni. 

SWEETS AND OTHER lyUXURlES. 

The luxuries of life may be classed under two 
heads, as follows: 

1. The Poisonous in nature. 

The common condiments — salt, pepper, and spices. 

Vinegar. 

Fruit essences. 

Meat extracts. 

Boiled down sauces. 

Wine and whiskey flavors. 

Various soda fountain drinks. 

Tea. 

Coffee. 

2. The Non-poisonous within their own nature. 
Sugar — ^not in combination with natural foods. 
Pure candy. 

Fruit juice flavors. 

Fruit juice acids. 

Pure ices. 

Jellies — ^some kinds. 

Some kinds of cake, pies, and puddings. 

Oils and fats — not in combination with other foods. 

Cocoa. 



224 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Luxuries of any kind are not essential to life, 
health or happiness. They are to food what tucks 
and ruffles are to clothing, and like them, the non- • 
poisonous may be used with discretion to be pleas- 
ing, or with indiscretion to be disgusting. There 
are plenty of wholesome kinds of luxuries for varia- 
tion without resorting to those destructive to living 
tissue. 

An injurious luxury is one that is poisonous to 
the system no matter how little used. The slow 
poison gradually deadens or paralyzes the sensitive 
nerves of taste or smell and weakens the whole cell 
structure of the body, until a little does not satisfy. 
More and more must be indulged in to produce the 
same excited effect, until the blood is loaded and 
the tissues are saturated with not only one kind of 
poison, but with many kinds. The vitality that 
should be reserved to rebuild and establish strong 
perfect cells, able to resist disease, is constantly ex- 
hausted in an effort to eliminate this needless amount 
of poison, thus old age conditions and various dis- 
eases are fostered through habits of thoughtless 
slavery to stimulants, among all classes. Injurious 
luxuries add nothing to life and would never be 
craved or missed if a taste for them were not culti- 
vated in early youth. The momentary sensation that 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 225 

is SO deceiving promises delight, but yields only 
suflFering from which every mother should strive to 
protect her child. 

A non-poisonous luxury is one that is not poison- 
ous within its self, but because of the combination 
or some condition the use of much of it is detri- 
mental. They serve their only purpose when 
indulged sparingly, or not at all. At present all 
such things are looked t!pon from a false standpoint, 
the idea that because a little is good more will af- 
ford greater pleasure. The fine distinction of 
"enough'' should be impressed upon the child mind 
for protection later in life. 

SUGAR. 

Sugar found in combination with other natural 
substances is a valuable and necessary food. All 
other sweets must be regarded in a different light. 

Sugar is one of the carbohydrate foods as well as 
being a liaxury and is burned in the system for en- 
ergy. Nature supplies it in small amounts in nearly 
every kind of product, besides all starch being con- 
verted into sugar, hence if an unlimited amount of 
artificial sugar or candy is eaten, too much inter.* 
nal energy and heat is created causing restlessness. 



226 SCIENTIFIC LIVINa 

nervousness, and abnormal craving and desires of 
all kinds. The natural action of the liver is soon 
destroyed, resulting in chronic constipation and ir- 
regular appetite. Children who indulge in sweets to 
excess are peevish and fretful. Edward Smith in his 
work on food says: "Ten grains of sugar when 
burnt in the system produce a heat sufficient to raise 
8.51 pounds of water i degree F., which is equal to 
lifting 6.649 pounds one foot high. Its action was 
rapid, commencing in ten minutes after being eaten 
and disappearing in two hours." Such experiments 
show that sugar is a food, but that its action is so 
rapid it is not reliable. It has not one particle of 
tissue building element. The fat it produces is not 
like body tissue— or working cells. Nuts and cere- 
als in the same proportion afford more energy, last- 
ing longer, besides supplying a large amount of 
proteid and other elements at the same time. As 
nature provides sufficient saccharine in combination 
with other food the manufactured sugar should be 
looked upon as a luxury and as a convenience to 
be used with good judgment. The aim should be 
to use as little as possible. The greatest pleasure of 
any luxury is lost as soon as it becomes common, 
while the necessities of life afford greatest pleasure 
under constant use. This law of happiness should 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 227 

be impressed upon the mind of every child. It will 
not be accepted at first, but every experience in life 
will verify it, adding greatly in cultivating judgment, 
to decide the place of "greatest good" in all things. 
As long as the child believes that the more he can 
get of sweets the happier he will be, he makes him- 
self miserable by fretting when deprived of them, 
hence the necessity of direct education regarding 
their use and dangers from infancy. The taste for 
candy should not be acquired as long as it is possible 
to prevent it. From this time regulation should be 
carefully cultivated by giving a small amount at the 
close of dinner, with the suggestion that "a little will 
make you happier than a large amount." The warn- 
ing will seem to do no good, as at the first opportu- 
nity the appetite will be indulged to the fullest ex- 
tent. This is seemingly a necessary part of the edu- 
cation and for some time afterwards plates of candy 
and sweetmeats should be kept about the house. 
Finally, the law of regulation is accepted, even 
though, for a time, the effect of sugar is similar to 
that of alcohol — ^the more one takes the more he 
wants, until the system rebels against it, in some 
form of sickness. A little candy occasionally affords 
pleasure without harm. It may be served once a 
week at the close of dinner, thus overcoming the 



228 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

present inclination to eat it between meals. The 
same may be said of ices and sweetened drinks. 
Health would be better if such things were not used. 
The universal habit of indulging ice cream and sweet 
sodas causes fermentation in the stomach and in- 
testines, resulting in irritation and catarrhal dis- 
eases, hence regulation at least is essential. 

When children are supplied nourishing food and 
natural sweets at regular meals the appetite is more 
normal and does not crave abnormal mixtures. 

Sweet juicy fruit, and dates, raisins, figs, prunes, 
etc, among the dry fruits, with honey, cane and 
maple syrup, afford plenty of sweet food for daily 
use; even these should be used in moderation. 

OILS AND I^ATS. 

Pats and oils are serviceable for heat and energy, 
and the formation of fatty tissue in the body for 
beauty and reserve force, but most of them do not 
contain proteid for the growth of the body, al- 
though it is generally believed that the accumula- 
tion of fat is an indication of good nourishment. 
Too much fat is not desirable. As nature furnishes 
enough fat for all necessities in combination with 
other food materials, except in very cold climates, an 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 229 

effort should be made to use less fat instead of more. 
Much of the fat used in frying is decomposed by 
high degrees of heat. Its use as food causes irrita- 
tion and diseases of the throat and stomach. The 
food that is fried in fat also has a brown coat of 
ash, as well as of grease that is injurious. Such 
foods, with the salt they require, make the throat 
less positive to colds. A very little fat in the form 
of olive oil, butter, cream, and nut butter, is all that 
is required. Lard, cottolene, and other fat and oils 
so generally used in cooking, should be avoided. 
More desirable forms of food than those introducing 
grease are becoming popular. 

When butter, cream or olive oil is used with 
cooked food, it should be added just as it is ready 
to be served. As little as possible serves the best 
purpose. 

Tins, CAR^^ PUDDINGS AND JKLUES. 

Pies, cakes, puddings and jellies are not essential 
to life and are not greatly missed when fresh fruit 
and pleasing natural desserts are used. Because of 
habit, however, a pie or cake is sometimes demanded 
and as some kinds are more desirable than others, 
is is well to be able to select the best. 



230 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Pie crust made of flaked wheat is delicious and 
crisp. It may be filled with sliced ripe fruit with 
just a suggestion of sugar or with simmered fruit 
slightly sweetened and be covered with a heavy white 
meringue that browns quickly in an oven. Cooked 
fruit must not be juicy. 

The crust is made by moistening flaked wheat a 
very little with boiling water. Work in more flaked 
wheat, then roll. Losen from the board with a knife 
and lift it carefully, as it breaks easily. It may be 
fitted together with a touch of hot water after put- 
ting in buttered pie pan. Glaze with the white of egg 
and dry in slow oven. 

As they keep well, a few pie and tart crusts may 
be always ready, thus they are better and more con- 
venient than the old greasy kind. 

Pumpkin custard may be carefully thickened in a 
double boiler then put in to the crust to brown a 
little very quickly. 

For fresh fruit pies and tarts whipped cream is 
the most pleasing for the top then no baking at all 
is needed. 

Pastry fillings like lemon butter or chocolate 
should be avoided. 

Cakes in which no butter or rich shortening is 
demanded are most desirable. Angel Food, sponge 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 231 

cakes, and pressed fruit cake being the best to serve 
occasionally. Cookies may be simply made also, 
but should not be in daily use, as they are at pres- 
ent among children. 

Pressed fruit cake may be kept on hand for emer- 
gencies, as it is inexpensive and wholesome. Make 
as follows, or according to Christian in "Uncooked 
Foods" : 

Mosten three cups of flaked wheat with a very 
little milk — water will do — and let stand an hour. 
In alternate layers in a buttered mould add ground 
or chopped figs, dates, nuts and raisins, having a 
layer of wheat on top and bottom as well as through 
the middle. Press well together and dry in sun or 
slow oven all day. Turn from the mould and ice. 
Cut in thin slices with a very sharp knife. 

Angel food and sponge cake of the true order 
have no shortening, hence the recipes in common use 
are as good as any. As they are composed largely 
of whites of eggs they must be carefully baked. 

Puddings of an endless variety may be made, but 
as the combination of eggs, sugar and milk enter 
into most of them, they are not desirable for fre- 
quent use. 

If the stomach is not in order these combinations 
often cause fermentation. 



232 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

The constant similarity of puddings is responsi- 
ble for the feeling that "one is tired of everything on 
the table." 

The habitual pudding is not needed and is served 
and eaten as a matter of form. Occasionally one is 
enjoyed and may be easily made in a double boiler. 
The custard should be stirred from the sides, as it 
cooks faster than the interior. 

A plum pudding may be made in the same manner 
as the pressed fruit cake and baked all day in the 
fireless cooker. It should be served with pure grape 
or berry juice slightly sweetened. This is nice for 
Christmas and Thanksgiving dinner. 

Suet puddings and many rich mixtures should be 
forgotten. 

JEI.I.IES. 

Pure fruit jelly may be made in an open double 
boiler without chemical change by the use of a very 
little gelatine. 

Many cold jelly preparations may be prepared by 
the use of gelatine. 

It has no real food value and much of it should 
not be used even for ornamentation. At times it 
is both pretty and convenient for pleasing, decorative 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 233 

desserts, and when combined with fresh fruit and 
whipped cream, the preparation is not without value 
as a food. 

Many kinds of ices may be enjoyed, but not too 
frequently or in large amounts. The chill is too 
great for the stomach and the sweet combinations 
are not good for daily use. Water ices of pure fruit 
juice and flavor are better than cream and sugar 
mixtures. 

Nuts are meat and should not be used in candy 
and ice creams. They are better suited to salad 
and vegetables or meat value dishes. Many people 
are sickened of nuts from eating them in sweet com- 
binations, then regard them as unhealthy. 

All flavors should be pure fruit. 

CONDIMENTS. 

f 

The common condiments — ^salt, pepper, spices, 
mustard, chili, fruit essences, meat essences, vinegar, 
sauces and wine and whiskey flavors are among the 
injurious luxuries and should be avoided as much as 
possible. A very little arouses the sense of taste, 
making pleasure acute for a moment, but as already 
explained, more is demanded the next time to pro- 
duce the same results. The deception soon leads to 



234 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

the use of so much that the delicate taste bulbs and 
nerves are deadened until it is impossible to distin- 
guish the real flavor of the food. Because of this 
the greatest pleasure to be derived from food is lost 
through high seasoning instead of being increased, 
as is generally imagined by those who demand an 
excessive amount of salt, pepper, or spices. 

The boiled down mixtures and sauces so much 
used are not desirable, as they destroy the original 
taste of food and cultivate abnormal appetites. They 
are also more or less poisonous from chemical 
changes and bad combinations. Eugene Christian 
says, "Sauces seem to have been created for the 
purpose of covering up something." 

Many unscrupulous cooks take advantage of the 
"seasoning habit," as very often decaying food that 
could not be imposed upon a normal sense of taste 
is accepted with relish when covered with a sauce 
having a high sounding name. 

Through habitual use, a liking may be acquired for 
almost any kind of seasoning of the stimulating 
order. An infant or a normal person does not like 
food with the average amount of seasoning. It 
is repulsive to them until the system is gradually 
saturated with its poisons. Give a child who has 
never tasted salt a dish of soup, with the usual 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 235 

amount of salt and pepper, and it cannot eat it. In 
Persia the taste is so cultivated, or so uncultivated, 
that asafetida is enjoyed, and thought to add much 
to the taste of food. 

The amount of stimulating things in use at the 
present time are indulged more from thoughtlessness 
and habit than from any wilful inclination to violate 
laws of health. The best families make washtubs 
full of "catsup,' kegs of chow chow and barrels of 
pickles and sour kraut. To be sure most of these 
mixtures, except the sour kraut are saved for church 
dinners and company, but the children, even though 
they do not care for them at first are impressed with 
the idea that they are right and important. As soon 
as they have homes of their own they must pass 
through the preserve and pickeling season, even if 
the mother-in-law — ^the dear soul — must come to 
help, as the girls of to-day are too busy with books 
and music to learn such things. Perhaps when the 
mother-in-laws have all gone to Heaven those of the 
next generation will not be able to impart the secrets 
of spiced foods to their children and the art of sauces 
and pickles will be among the "lost arts." 

Vinegar is a germ growth and its acid pFoduct, 
the amount in daily use is a tax upon the system, as 
the germs attack the living ferments in the stomach 



2^ SCIENTIFIC UVING. 

and the red corpusdes of the blood. Children who 
eat piddes in excess are pale and listless, yet, moth- 
ers do not realize the cause. 

Many kinds of commercial vin^;ar are only dieni- 
ical adds that are even more injurious than the real 
product 

When more fruit is used such adds are not craved. 
I f adds are demanded for flavor the juice of a lemon 
is the most desirable. 

Essences are generally chemical imitations, being 
neither desirable nor healthy. 

Meat extracts from which beef tea and soups are 
prepared for invalids have no food value. They 
have a large amount of condensed animal poison and 
inorganic chemicals, which act as a stimulant, that 
is mistaken for nourishment. 

Pepper and mustard are vegetable poisons. Mus- 
tard will blister the skin, and its irritating influence 
upon the lining of the stomach is the same in pro- 
portion to the amount taken. 

The daily papers record an account of a boy who 
accepted a wager to eat a certain amount of pepper. 
He ate it and won, but the next day he died in great 
agony. His mother had fed him pepper without 
telling him it was a poison and enough of it would 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 237 

kill. He had no fear of it, as it was on nearly every 
table. 

Tea, coflFee, wine and sodas need no discussion. 
They contain poison that the system must elimi- 
nate. They are supposed to impart strength, but in- 
stead, they exhaust strength that might be put to 
better use. If never touched they are never wanted 
or missed. After an appetite for them is formed it 
should be intelligently and carefully regulated until 
the mind decides that the buoyant feeling of freedom 
from the poison is more delightful than the excited 
action of the poison, with its depressing and enslav- 
ing after effects. 

Chemists are trying to extract the poisonous prin- 
ciple from many things in common use that they 
may be enjoyed without injury. Their effort will 
fail to accomplish the desired results, as without this 
element in coffee, tea, tobacco, etc., they would not be 
craved, hence no money would be spent on them. 

The purpose of such poisons in nature is to dis- 
cipline the mind. Man has the privilege of deciding 
between things, thoughts and actions that sustain life 
and those that induce death. He is strong physi- 
cally, mentally and morally in proportion to his deci- 
sion to maintain life. 

Salt is probably the most injurious of the common 



238 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

condiments, as it is used most freely and is thought 
to be, by many, an "elixir of life." This mistaken 
idea is gradually being counteracted since the chem- 
ical nature of salt is better understood. Many sani- 
tariums and boarding schools do not use salt in food. 
Many prominent doctors are requiring invalids to 
avoid it. Health magazines and even the daily 
papers are discussing the poisonous nature of salt 
and other condiments, hence while it is a shocking 
idea to some, to be told that so simple a thing as 
salt is injurious, it will soon be as generally known 
as that alcohol is a poisonous stimulant. 

Nature prepares salt in organized form in vari- 
ous food substances for use in the human system, 
but the common salt is an inorganic mineral sub- 
stance that cannot be appropriated by the system. 
It does not help to form any of the tissues. It re- 
mains in the blood until it can be eliminated through 
the skin, kidneys, or bowels, or settles as sediment 
around the joints. Everyone knows how it pours 
out of the skin with perspiration, and if the pores of 
the skin are suddenly closed by cold air the excess 
of salt is thrown out through the delicate lining 
membrane of the throat and lungs in the form of a 
cold. Other kinds of poison thrown off internally 
might produce the irritation known as cold, but salt 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 239 

is now considered as the most common cause of 
cold and many consumptive tendencies. The phlegm 
expectorated by consumptives is intensely salt. The 
gradual use of less salt aids in the recovery of a con- 
sumptive. It has always been known that diseases 
of the nature of scurvey are caused by an excessive 
use of salt foods and too little fresh green vege- 
tables. 

Salt has been accepted as a necessary part of food 
until the system is so saturated with it that only 
those who have lived for many years without it can 
appreciate the feeling of buoyancy that is the natural 
result of purer blood. The heavy, dull, despondency 
making people feel so often that "life is not 
worth while" is largely the reaction of the stimulant 
of meats, salt, pepper, spices, tea and coffee that are 
in such common use. 

The same effect is more marked with the greater 
stimulant found in tobacco and alcoholic drinks. 
Nature constantly rallies to eliminate poison from 
the blood, and anti-toxins are generated for protec- 
tion, but even this wise provision of nature to 
give man a chance to develop, cannot be imposed 
upon indefinitely. As soon as it is generally known 
that happiness cannot be increased by the means of 
injurious luxuries they will be gradually avoided. 



240 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Another law is here brought into action. It is the 
nature of poisonous stimulants to demand more 
under their deadening influence, and the false idea 
that "because a little is good more will be better." 
The mind, body and poison act together — on the 
road to destruction. When the deceptive premise 
and painful end is fully understood, the mind is free. 
Truth destroys error and its hold upon the system. 
True thoughts arouse greater vitality to purify the 
blood of its load of poison. Under a direct effort to 
change a wrong habit, or to use less and less of in- 
jurious things, the desire for them is gradually lost 
instead of increased. A greater love and apprecia- 
tion of life takes its place. A happiness before un- 
known is enjoyed. 

The idea of seasoning, even with uninjurious 
kinds, should be like that of the use of perfume. 
A very little perfume — just the suggestion of the 
aroma of flowers — is associated with refinement 
and culture, while cheap perfumery profusely used 
indicates a lack of genteelness. In fact, it is consid- 
ered vulgar. 

Nature is a perfect chemist. She flavors, sweet- 
ens, salts, and peppers every kind of food substance 
in the most pleasing manner. No one is expected to 
eat hard, tasteless or offensive things. The sweet 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 241 

nutty flavor of natural grain is most satisfying. The 
delicate sweetness of milk cannot be improved by 
any kind of manufactured sugar. 

Each vegetable has its own peculiar taste that is 
largely lost when salted and peppered excessively. 

The delicate flavor of fruit is so destroyed by 
sugar and spices, that jars of preserves and jam 
must be labeled to tell what they are. 

Even butter is better with little or no salt when 
one is accustomed to so eat it. 

In many restaurants in large cities fresh unsalted 
butter is popular. 

Less and less salt should be used by every mother 
in home cooking until the suggestion at least is all 
that is demanded. 

Besides her perfect system of flavors, nature also 
has a harmless stimulant or incentive in the form of 
appetite associated with the necessity of food. It is 
similar to the emotions and ambitions essential to 
the fullness of life. When normal it is a perfect 
guide to the best food and the proper amount, but 
under the exciting influence of poisons it becomes 
perverted and even dangerous. Abnormal appetites, 
the same as abnormal passions and ambitions, cannot 
be satisfied even through resorting to crime. In fact, 
there would be much less crime, or none at all, if ap- 



242 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

petites and passions were not perverted by poisonous 
food and drink. 

It is only the normal appetite supplied with simple 
natural food that knows peace and fully enjoys life. 

It is easy to live and enjoy the best there is, yet 
people will insist on making life hard. 

At present the whole question of diet may be con- 
sidered according to John Borrough's idea of happi- 
ness. He says, "Most people do not know when 
they are happy." It is just as true that most people 
do not know when they are well fed. The simple 
substantial foods not only afford the^ best nourish- 
ment but the greatest pleasure — non-poisonous lux- 
uries being the "flashes of joy" that are desirable 
occasionally, but will not sustain life or even prove 
gratifying if indulged constantly. The common 
mistake of humanity is the belief that the pleasure of 
living is increased by dissipation, or the excessive 
indulgence of privileges or luxuries nature intends 
only for occasional diversion. Ignorance of this 
law of happiness is the cause of most of the sin 
and suffering of the world, besides inducing old 
age and death, hence the great necessity of teaching 
it more directly from the pulpit, the press, and the 
public schools for the permanent elevation of the 
race and the prolongation of human life. It re- 



SWEETS AND OTHER LUXURIES. 243 

quires a great artist to bring out the high lights of a 
picture just as it requires a thorough knowledge of 
scientific living to use luxuries that they may add to 
one's happiness and longevity, instead of reacting in 
pain and dissolution. 



244 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 



CHAPTER XIX. 



''SIMPI.E 1.11^^/^ OR REGULATED MENUS ^OR 

SCIENTIFIC UVING. 



The wealthy find true happiness in living the 
Simple Life" from choice. The poor are content 
with it from necessity. 



€i 



ONE WEEK IN LATE SUMMER SEASON. 

MONDAY. 

BREAKli-AST. 

Bunch of Grapes. 

Cream of Wheat, simmered. Thin Cream or Milk. 

Unfired Wafers. Nut Butter. 

Milk. 

LUNCHEON. 

Fresh Peaches. 

Creamed Potatoes. Celery. 

Whole Wheat Bread. Fresh Butter. 

Bananas. English Walnuts. 

Water. 



"SIMPLE LIFE" MENUS. 245 

DINNER. 

Small Glass of Grape Juice. 
Quartered Simmered Potatoes. 

Simmered Green Peas with Cream. 
Seeded Dates with Whipped Cream. 

Nut and Apple Salad, Mayonnaise. 
Corn-Bread. Egg-nog. (Milk, egg and fruii juice.) 

TUESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Large Oranges in Halves. 
Cream Toast, Simmered Eggs, soft 

Hot Nut Milk. 

LUNCHEON. 

Red Semi-acid Apples. 

Simmered Rice with Butter. Lettuce, French Dressing. 

Almonds. Figs. 

Unfired Bread. Nut Butter. 

Water. 

DINNER. 

Small Slice of Melon. 

Baked Potatoes. Fresh Butter. 

Simmered Butter Beans. Nut Salad. 

Radishes. Sliced Tomatoes. 

Simmered Rice Pudding with Raisins. 

Cold Light Bread. Slice of Pineapple. 

Cold Water. 

WEDNESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Woman's Morning of Freedom^ 
Ripe Peaches. 



246 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Uncooked Flaked Wheat. Thin Cream. 

Grated Cheese with Chopped Hard Cooked Eggs in Sandwiches. 
Almonds. Dates. 

Hot Milk from Chafing Dish. 

LUNCHEON. 

Ripe Plums. 

Milk Gravy. Whole Wheat Bread. 

Poached Eggs. Small Green Onions. 

Cantaloupe with Ice. 

DINNER. 

Bunch of Ripe Red Currants, or Glass of Canned Currant Juice. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. Simmered Com on Cob. 

Apple Salad. Water Cress. 

Whole Wheat Gems. Fresh Butter. 

Ripe Pears. Cocoa. 

THURSDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Semi-acid Red Apples. 
Beaten Biscuits. Fresh Butter. 

Honey in Comb. Scrambled Eggs. 

Milk. 

LUNCHEON. 

Water Melon. 

Simmered Macaroni and Cheese. Unfired Bread, Nut Butter. 

Lettuce Salad. Ripe Olives. 

Cocoanut. Sliced Bananas and Cream. 

Milk. 

DINNER. 

Woman's Club Day. Use Chafing Dish. 

Bunch of Grapes. \ 

Vegetable Soup from Fireless Cooker. Light Bread. 



"SIMPLE LIFE" MENUS. 247 

Cold Macaroni from Luncheon. 

Radishes. Cucumbers. 

Simmered Eggs. Hot, or Cold and Previously Stuffed. 

Brazil Nuts. Milk. Butter. 

FRIDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Bananas and Thick Cream with Raisins. 

Dry Buttered Toast. French Poached Eggs. 

Simmered Oatmeal. Figs. Milk. 

LUNCHEON. 

Large Oranges in Quarters. 

Fresh Corn or Dried Sweet Corn Simmered. Cream Dressing. 

Cheese Rare-bit. Greens of Spinach with Whipped Cream. 

Whole Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Almonds. Simmered Dried Peaches. 

DINNER. 

Glass of Canned Blackberry Juice. 

Vegetable Pie. Butter and Cream Dressing. 

Hot Salad of Sliced Potatoes. 

(Better than French Fried Potatoes.) 

Dry English Peas, simmered. 

Simmered Cauliflower. Cream Dressing. 

Cabbage Salad. Sliced Tomatoes. 

Whole Wheat Bread. Sliced Pineapple. 

Cold Water. 

SATURDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Ripe Peaches. 

Com Bread. Fresh Butter. 

Soft Simmered Eggs. Natural Banana Coffee. 



248 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

LUNCHEON. 

Bananas. 

Pea Soup from peas of previous day. Croutons. 

Lettuce. Sliced Cucumbers and Onions. 

Pecans. Figs. 

DINNER. ♦ 

Glass of Water with Lemon Juice. 
Simmered Rice, or Potatoes. Simmered or Baked Tomatoes. 

Simmered or Baked Beans. 

Apple Salad. Radishes. Hot Cabbage Salad. 

Hot Steamed Brown Bread. Fresh Chocolate Drops. 

The elaborate Sunday dinner is one of the great 
evils that must be overcome before long life is possi- 
ble. Because of the thoughtless habit of over-eating 
on the Sabbath women have allowed themselves to 
become slaves to needless labor and men greater 
slaves to appetite. As men do not work on Sunday, 
they need but a small amount of food. Nuts, fruit, 
bread, milk, eggs, and honey would supply the best 
nourishment for a day of rest, besides being more in 
keeping with the spiritual idea, but as such a reform 
can hardly be expected with the present generation 
already in bondage to abnormal appetites, as well 
as to a thosuand other sins of living, producing slow 
suicide, the next best thing to do is to regulate habits 
and work toward the ideal until the future genera- 
tions can be educated to desire only that which will 



"SIMPLE LIFE" MENUS. 249 

be preservative to life for the great purpose of Ion- 
gevity, knowing thai in this is also the highest happi- 
ness. As long as man believes he is making a sacri- 
fice of personal pleasure to do right it requires a 
great effort to live up to his convictions from a sense 
of duty, but as soon as he realizes that he will gain 
greater happiness in another way it becomes a pleas- 
ure to execute the higher purpose. 

The first necessity to emancipate woman from ex- 
cessive labor on Sunday is to avoid cooking meat — 
heavy roasts, chicken, stews, turkey, duck, dump- 
lings and meat pies are entirely unsuited to the day, 
as well as to the needs of the family, so why continue 
the bad habit of labor and expense to supply them? 
No reason but that of a general custom. 

Beans and brown bread can be simmered in a 
triple double boiler or in fireless cooker at one time, 
Saturday forenoon, requiring no watching or care, 
while salads, nut-meats, vegetables, or pie or cake 
are being prepared. The part for the Saturday din- 
ner being left in the cooking dish to be re-heated 
when needed, leaving the woman free for the after- 
noon, as well as on Sunday. Nuts and fruit should 
be used naturally through the week, leaving special 
preparations for luxuries, thus fruit salads, jelly 
moulds, fruit custards, nut salads, nut and fig cake, 



250 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

cheese dainty, mock chicken — nuts, bread, eggs, 
made into mould and baked — whipped cream dress- 
ings, ambrosia, etc., afford plenty of delicious and 
healthful food for extra dinners and luncheons with- 
out great labor or resorting to the same old abomi- 
nable mixtures that have always been kept "for com- 
pany." Dinner and luncheon should be reversed on 
Sunday to avoid evening cooking. 

MENU FOR SUNDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Whole wheat unleavened gems. Fresh Butter. 

Milk. Honey. 

DINNER. 

Bunch of Grapes. 

Mashed Potatoes, Milk Gravy. Sliced cold (mock) chicken. 

Heated Simmered Beans. Sliced Tomatoes. 

Cold Sliced Brown Bread. 

Nut Salad. Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Sliced Cucumbers. Celery. 

Ambrosia or Pumpkin Pie. 

Marshmallow Squares. Apples. Water. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cantaloupe. 

Bowl of Bread and Milk. Unfired Wafer and Cheese. 

English Walnuts. Pecans. 

Fresh Peaches. Dates. 

Angel Food Cake. Water. 



BEST SYSTEM OF DIET. 251 



CHAPTER XX. 

THE BEST SYSTEM 01^ DIET FOR PROI.ONGING THE 

TERM OP HUMAN UFE. 

While a regulated system of diet fulfilling the de- 
mands of the "simple life," as already given, is more 
desirable than one in which breakfast calls for beef- 
steak, quail on toast, fried trout, bacon, liver, or 
baked beans, there is yet a better way ; a way afford- 
ing more perfect nutrition without danger of com- 
plication; a way by which woman is more fully 
emancipated from excessive labor; a way which 
naturally divides food substances suited to each 
meal that they may serve the highest purpose, and 
the most pleasing variety, with the least care. 

The new plan for a long life system of diet is 
to serve a natural breakfast and luncheon and a sci- 
entifically cooked dinner at six o'clock. 

When this way of eating becomes habitual in early 
life, it will enable one, providing other conditions are 
favorable, to accumulate enough vitality in the cells 
to maintain the vigor of the body during the critical 



252 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

stage — from sixty to eighty years — until the "race 
belief" in natural decline and the "old age" disease 
is overcome, permitting the mature life to continue 
indefinitely, or until a much longer term is fully es- 
tablished. If auto-intoxication from poisons gen- 
erated in the digestive tract can be prevented, and 
the accumulation of sediment hardening the arteries 
is checked, the life force and cell construction of 
youth remain dominant. 

Like all new things a change in diet must be in- 
troduced gradually and wisely. Life habits are hard 
to change ; in fact, it may be some time before even 
the most progressive women will think it possible, or 
even desirable, to give the family a natural break- 
fast. 

It is the same old story: "Women complain of 
slavery, but when opportunities are presented for 
better conditions, they are the first to cry, "No, no !" 
One says, "We have had hot cakes and coffee for 
breakfast so long we could not do without them." 
Another says, "My husband could not eat a bite 
without his biscuits and bacon." Very well, give 
the dear ones the same old things in simplified form 
as long as they want them, as a change of diet with- 
out a change of desire is of but little value, keeping 
higher ideals for them in mind. 



BEST SYSTEM OF DIET. 253 

"Habit is a cable," but natural evolution is con- 
stantly breaking the bonds it fixes upon the indivi- 
dual. As time passes and the "same old things" are 
served with an occasional sprinkling of new dishes 
and new ideas, hope for retained or renewed youth 
is born. With it is associated a demand for the best 
conditions to sustain the normal man. A great love 
for simple natural living soon adds zest and pleas- 
ure from food, unknown before. The appetite, so 
far as it is abnormal, changes without conscious 
effort. 

As soon as normal habits are established they be- 
come an inheritance. For instance, when the boys 
of three generations are given from infancy a bowl 
of natural flaked wheat and milk for breakfast, 
those of the fourth generation will want nothing 
else. They will develop into stronger and more 
manly men. Their mothers and wives will breath 
the air of freedom. 

The No Breakfast Plan has become so universal 
it proves the morning meal to be unnecessary to 
health and life. 

In imitation of this popular theory many mothers 
say, "O, we only have crisp toast and coffee for 
breakfast." 

This custom does not emancipate woman or im- 



254 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

prove the nutrition. It reduces breakfast almost to 
a stimulant that enslaves the digestive organs and 
glands, as they soon refuse to act without the stimu- 
lation of the poison from ash of toast and caffeine 
of coffee, they must arouse to eliminate, instead of 
to use, for energy or tissue building. It is a loss of 
force to the body cells, hence is worse than no break- 
fast at all for prolonging life. 

When a fire must be made and any cooking done 
the labor is about the same no matter what is served, 
making a woman's day of work much longer than 
that of her husband. 

The natural breakfast will be a relief to woman 
even before it becomes universal, as it frees her 
from the feeling that she must do a certain amount 
of cooking each day. The dread of cooking and 
the daily regime of dish washing and other work, at 
times, is more exhausting than the actual labor. 

If it is more convenient for all the members of the 
family the cooked meal may be served at noon, in- 
stead of at six o'clock. It should be simple enough 
to avoid the temptation to eat excessively. The use 
of nuts for an evening luncheon will supply the 
tissue building element for repair during sleep. 

Among the advantages of the Long Life System 
of Diet may be mentioned : 



BEST SYSTEM OF DIET. 255 

1. More perfect nutrition. 

2. Less labor for women. 

3. Less expense. 

4. Being free in the early morning, women will 
be more inclined to seek the open air each day, and 
take regular exercise. 

5. The tendency to discard or use less tea and 
coffee. 

6. The tendency to discard or use less salt and 
sugar. 

7. The tendency to discard or use less fried fat 
and ash crisp food. 

8. The tendency to discard or use less dead cell 
proteid food. 

9. The tendency to discard or use less soft food 
that is liable to be swallowed without thorough mas- 
tication. 

ID. It cultivates the habit of eating fruit at the 
beginning of a meal to purify the stomach. 

11. It induces one to eat more nuts and less or no 
meat. 

12. It induces one to eat more fresh vegetables 
and less disorganized boiled substances. 

13. It induces more water drinking between 
meals. 

14. By using unfired bread or cereals largely for 



256 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

breakfast, and nuts with fruit for luncheon, the other 
simple non-meat dishes are left for dinner, thus eggs, 
cheese, vegetables, soups, milk gravy, cream salads, 
and nut mixtures afford variety easily without meat. 

The natural grain in unfired bread and cereals, 
with fresh fruit and green vegetables, keeps the di- 
gestive tract in the most perfect order for the prep- 
aration of food for assimilation. 

When the alimentary canal is clean and normal 
and the waste fully eliminated, digestion, assimila- 
tion and cell growth are at their best. 

Constipation and retained poisonous waste are 
universal at present. This condition is easily pre- 
vented by the use of more natural foods, cereals, 
fruit and green leaves of vegetables. Cereal grains 
are the cheapest and best of food for general use, 
but most people avoid them as they are common, 
seeking more expensive and less valuable food in- 
stead. , 

There will be a time when the semi-animal foods 
will not be needed by those who aspire to long life, 
but at present they serve as stepping stones to a 
higher development of the human race. 

Cereals, fruit, nuts, and green leaves that grow 
in the sunlight afford the most ideal food for man. 
With such an ideal before the mind it is easy to re- 



BEST SYSTEM OF DIET. 257 

alize the amount of care, worry, suffering and ex- 
pense man has brought upon himself by imagining 
that elaborate and complicated things add to his 
happiness. 

The best system of diet for prolonging the term 
of human life also calls for a more scientific use 
of liquids. Eating and drinking should be more 
decidedly separated. A natural breakfast and lunch- 
eon lead to establishing good habits in this channel 
during youth, that are of inestimable value in matur- 
ity. When a child is given a glass of water or milk, 
or a cup of coffee every meal he is inclined to eat 
hurriedly, washing the half masticated food down 
with the liquid. This is the beginning of much 
weakness and suffering. The harm is not only in the 
dilution of the digestive juices and the lack of thor- 
ough mastication and insalivation of food, but in 
the influence upon the development of the glands 
that secrete the vital juices. 

These juices are not — just water. They abound 
in living organisms and chemical properties essen- 
tial in digestion and assimilation. Food is worse 
than useless without a sufficient supply of each kind 
of secretion freely forthcoming, which is impos- 
sible if habits are fostered keeping the action of the 
glands below the normal. The power and tone of 



258 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

the glands are lowered when the demand upon them 
to perform their natural function is lacking, as is 
the case when food is washed down without thor- 
ough chewing, or digested with any unnatural "aid." 

This feature is important in general health and 
even more so in prolonging the term of human life. 
It must be considered educative in nature. 

It has always been a part of the teaching of the 
Adepts, who aspire to perpetuate youth, that "the 
breath of life" can be maintained indefinitely under 
adverses only by developing the most minute air 
cells that are commonly unused until they act fully, 
naturally, and spontaneously. Just so the glands of 
the mouth, as well as those of the stomach and in- 
testines must be trained from infancy to develop the 
full strength and action that is not easily disturbed. 

This may be accomplished, largely by avoiding 
liquids at meals and the excessive use of soft foods. 

If a child is never given a liquid to sip with food 
he will chew his bread slowly until it becomes de- 
liciously sweet in the mouth from the change of 
starch into sugar. He is also establishing a strong 
foundation for good digestion. In latter life he will 
not crave tea, coffee, beer or whiskey, as his appe- 
tite will be normal. 

Milk is food and should be combined a part of 



BEST SYSTEM OF DIET. 259 

the time with other substances, but all of a child's 
food should not be softened with milk. 

When milk, buttermilk, fruit juice or fruit juice 
egg nog are used as food drinks, they should not be 
sipped with food, but taken slowly at the beginning 
of a meal, or part of a glass at the beginning and the 
rest at the close of the meal. 

The present custom of serving coffee at the close 
of dinner indicates that a whole meal can be en- 
joyed without liquid, habit being all that de- 
mands it. 

The system should have plenty of water from 
free drinking between meals or a short time before 
food is taken. 

Training ill public schools would do much toward 
cultivating better habits of drinking. At the noon 
hour, as the pupils are dismissed they should be 
marched past the water fountains, each child having 
his own cup, thus taking water before, instead of 
after eating lunch. Ten or fifteen minutes would 
pass before they could eat, and in this time the water 
would be absorbed by the system. The reason for 
this practice should be fully explained to* pupils and, 
when the finer development of all the organs of the 
body becomes a part of school work, the intellectual 



26o 



SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 



feature of education will have more meaning — a 
normal race will be established. 



LONG LIFE MENUS FOR ONE WEEK 

MONDAY. 





BREAKFAST. 






Bananas and Cream. 




Unfired bread. 


Milk. 

LUNCHEON. 

Watermelon. 


Nut butter. 


Almonds. 


Tomatoes and cucumbers sliced. 


Unfired bread. 


DINNER. 

Bunch of Grapes. 


Fresh butter. 


Simmered potatoes. 




Milk gravy. 


Poached eggs. 


Lettuce salad. 


Green peas. 


Com bread. 


TUESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Ripe peaches. 


Butter. 


Uncooked Flaked wheat 


Milk. 




LUNCHEON. 






Cantaloupe. 




Peanuts. 




Pignolias. 


Celery. 


Unfired wafers and cheese. 



DINNER. 

Glass of Blackberry juice. 
Rice with English Walnuts. 



Celery. 



BEST SYSTEM OF DIET. 



261 



Butter beans. 

Whole wheat bread. 

Iced Cantaloupe. 

WEDNESDAY. 



Tomato salad. 
Fresh butter. 



Peanut bread. 



Almonds. 
Whole wheat bread. 



BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Honey in comb. 
Milk. 

LUNCHEON. 

Ripe pears. 
Radishes. 



Fresh butter. 



Pecans. 
Butter. 



DINNER. 

Club Day. 

Watermelon on ice. 
Sweet potatoes from unfired cooker. 
Chili beans from unfired cooker. 
Light bread. 
Wafers. 



Butter. 
Nut butter. 
Cheese. 
Dates. 



THURSDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Dates and cream. 
Uncooked mixed cereals— (two or three tablespoons) 

Milk. 



English walnuts. 
Unfired bread. 



LUNCHEON. 

Red apples. 



Water cress. 
Nut butter. 



262 



SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 



DINNER. 

Bananas. 
Peanut Whole Wheat Ssudwiches. 
Simmered Mashed Potatoes. 
Simmered Com on Cob. 



Hot Spinach Salad. 
Butter. 
Sliced Tomatoes. 



Peach Ice Cream. 
FRIDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 
Unfired Wafer Rarebit. 

Hot Milk from the chafing dish. 



Butter. 



Pignolias. 
Unfired bread. 



LUNCHEON. 

Bananas. 



Melon. 



Almonds. 
Young Onions. 



DINNER. 

Cantaloupe. 

Nut Stuffed egg-plant. Celery. 

Rice with peas. Nut Salad. 

Simmered Young Beets. French Dressing. 

Peaches and Cream. 

Fresh Chocolate Candy. 

SATURDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Figs and Cream. 
Two tablespoons oatmeal. Milk. 

Almonds. 

LUNCHEON. 

Grapes. 



BEST SYSTEM OF DIET. 263 

Unfired Bread. Nut Butter. 

Peanuts. Sliced Turnips. 

Figs. . 

DINNER. 

Grape Juice. 

Baked Potatoes. Butter. 

French Poached Eggs. Lettuce Salad. 

Beets. 

Hot Unleavened Bread. Honey in Comb. 

Simmered Prunes, 

SUNDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Peaches. 
Uncooked Flaked Wheat. Milk. 

Dates. 

DINNER. 

Cherries. 

Cream Potatoes. Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Macaroni and Cheese. Apple Salad. 

Simmered Cauliflower. Cream Dressing. 

Fruit Salad with Whipped Cream. 

Fresh Chocolates. 

Egg Nog. 

LUNCHEON. 

Bread and Milk or Cream of Tomato Souf. 
Cradcers. English Walnuts. 

Angel Food Cake. 



264 SCIENTIFIC LIVINa 



CHAPTER XXI. 

ASSOCIATE INFI,U1$NC^. 

While proper nourishment is the first essential to 
health and longevity, many associate influences, if 
ignored and unregulated, may counteract the desired 
results of the most perfect system of diet. Among 
the important aids nature demands for the com- 
plete digestion and assimilation of food, may be 
mentioned — ^water, air, sunshine, exercise, and 
wholesome thoughts. 

Water forms 60 per cent, of the human body, 
hence it should be pure as possible and freely used. 

The ultimate source of fresh water is rain. After 
reaching the earth it remains in the form of surface 
water, as found in common wells, deep water from 
the artesian strata, cistern water, river and spring 
water. Rain water, falling through an atmosphere 
free from smoke and dust, is the purest water 
known, unless it is distilled. 

It is generally supposed that if water "teems with 



ASSOCIATE INFLUENCES. 265 

life" and is rich in saline salts and mineral sub- 
stances, it is more healthful, but this is an error. 
Minerals in water are in an inorganic state, hence 
are quite different from the same minerals that are 
found in the juice of a peach. Water cannot organ- 
ize them as can the peach, therefore the human cells 
cannot use them. They remain in solution in the 
blood as poison, until they can be eliminated. 

If health improves under the use of mineral 
water, it is not due to the minerals but to the change 
— the hopeful attitude of the mind — and the wash- 
ing of the internal and external body, as the water 
is freely used. 

As to the life in water, Dr. Hassalls says: 

"All living matter contained in water used for 
drink, since it is in no way necessary to it, and is 
not present in the purest of waters, is to be regarded 
as so much contamination and impurity — is there- 
fore more or less injurious, and is consequently to be 
avoided. There is yet another view to be taken of 
the presence of these creatures in water, viz. : that 
where not injurious themselves, they are yet to be 
regarded as tests of the impurity of the water in 
which they are found." 

As the conditions for the development of vegeta- 
tion and animalcules are air, light, stillness and mat- 



266 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

ter for food, it is clear that the more impure the 
water, the more living creatures it will develop and 
the aim should be to avoid as many as possible by 
seeking water as pure as can be found. 

Hard water is heavy with saline salts and lime 
gathered from the earth in some sections, and is less 
desirable than soft water. The constant use of hard 
water, or any kind having a great amount of miner- 
als hastens "old age diseases," as the elements that 
are not eliminated settle around the joints, producing 
stiffness. 

When water is not in a fit condition to use it 
should be distilled in the home, but if deep well 
water, nearly pure spring water or good cistern 
water or artesian water can be obtained, it is more 
convenient for general service. When less meat 
and stimulants are used, and the vitality of the cells 
is dominant, as in youth, the amount of mineral sub- 
stance and bacteria in average natural water, will 
do no harm ; however, it is well to have an idea be- 
fore the mind, as to what pure water really is, be- 
cause, people in general, will pay a high price for 
water that is of no value to them. 

Pure water is the same in all places. The analy- 
sis being the analysis of foreign bodies held in sus- 
pension in the water. Water should be cool and 



ASSOCIATE INFLUENCES. 267 

fresh, but not extremely iced. Much kidney trouble 
results from excessive use of ice water. 

The daily use of water in bathing is too well 
known to need discussion. From one to three pints 
of poisonous substances are exuded each day from 
the pores of the skin. It saturates the clothing, and 
adheres to the skin, hence if left long much of it is 
reabsorbed by the system, making additional work 
for the internal organs. 

If one can enjoy a cold morning bath it is in- 
vigorating, but it is not a necessity. A tepid bath 
upon retiring, keeps the pores open and leaves a 
feeling of freshness and growth upon the mind, be- 
ing a good impression for the cells during sleep. 

The skin should be exercised and cultivated 
against sensitiveness to cold, as it keeps the circula- 
tion in better poise, and is a great protection against 
sudden changes. Clothing should be light, porous 
and clean, yet sufficient in quantity for protection, 
according to the degree of cold. 

It is a common belief that exposure and ex- 
tremes, as well as loss of sleep, and the indulgence 
in various dissipations, "toughen" children. That 
they must keep in the habit of doing abnormal 
things in order to be able to stand them. For in- 
stance, little tots are allowed to play all day with 



268 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

cold hands and feet, just so they do not cry with 
cold. Others are left sleeping with heads toward 
the fire. Many children are kept awake, late at 
night, to prevent them being sleepy, if to be taken 
to a party. Plenty of pepper is put into the soup 
to keep the stomach used to it. This is a mistaken 
and confused idea, that can be eradicated only from 
the standpoint of the normal life. 

In all right channels there is a way to cultivate 
strength and power of endurance, through cell in- 
crease in brain and body» while in abnormal things 
the deadening influence that destroys cells, and sears 
the consciousness of suffering from wrong habits, is 
not a gain, in any way, but always a direct loss, as 
the original harmony of the system is soon lost and 
destroyed. 

Oxygen enters so largely into the composition of 
the body, that many regard air as food ; however, it 
is more like water, being an essential agent in the 
use of food. Air must be pure in quality and suffi- 
cient in quantity. Small lung capacity and bad 
habits of breathing, render perfect digestion and oxi- 
dization of food for energy impossible, thus the 
latent force of the body cells is constantly demanded, 
cultivating consumptive tendencies until the dread 



ASSOCIATE INFLUENCES. 269 

disease is fully developed. The general lack of cell 
building food fosters weakness also. ,In order to 
counteract the increase of the "great while plague" 
the lungs of school children should be tested each 
term by a spirometer which records thte exact 
breathing capacity. When it is found to be below 
normal, special training should be given in deep 
breathing until the desired capacity is acquired, tests 
being taken each month. The necessity of vital food 
free from stimulants should be impressed upon the 
minds of the parents, and less mental work should 
be assigned weakly pupils until full strength is 
gained. With these precautions a greater amount 
of vitality from the subjective side of life should be 
commanded, holding the system positive to the en- 
croachment of disease. In this way a full life may 
be enjoyed, while with the early habit of weakness 
neglected, it is only a matter of time when all am- 
bition must be laid aside and the preparation for life 
work is useless. 

The strongest of people need to spend a few mo- 
ments each day in concentrated effort to enlarge the 
breathing capacity as a preservation of freshness 
and youth. Diaphragmatic, or deep breathing, gen- 
tly exercising all of the vital organs, as well as in- 
creasing the lung capacity. Chest exercises keep the 



270 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

form erect, preventing pressure and friction which 
hastens old age. Counting during exercises is an aid 
to. concentrated effort. Breathing should be steady 
and rythmical, but the breath should not be held 
after being slowly inhaled. 

Systematic exercises preserve the symmetry of the 
body. The kind needed depends upon the occupa- 
tion, the aim being to bring into action the organs 
and muscles least used during hours of work. The 
body must be kept erect, else there is but little possi- 
bility of warding off old age. The muscles of the 
chest must not be allowed to contract and become 
fixed, as the spine is soon curved. The arms should 
be held high over the head a few moments before 
retiring and a few deep breaths taken. For hard 
working people, lying flat upon the floor, with the 
head, shoulders and back perfectly level, a few min- 
utes each night, will stretch the chest muscles, coun- 
teracting the tendency of the spine and neck to be- 
come crooked, at the same time being restful. This 
relaxing exercise also tends to bring all the organs 
of the body into harmony, being of more value than 
any violent exercises. Exercise should produce 
natural tiring, but must always be stopped before ex- 
haustion, else the cells are destroyed instead of be- 
ing revivified. Physical culture may be carried to 



ASSOCIATE INFLUENCES. 271 

any degree of perfection, developing both brain and 
body. The perfect physical being should always be 
kept in mind. All habits of distorting the face — 
scowling, squinting, pouting or wrinkling the fore- 
head while riding — must be avoided, as they culti- 
vate old age conditions. The habit of stooping when 
riding, and slovenly walking fosters age. Dignity, 
firmness, and self-mastery enable one to "hold his 
own" with the world indefinitely. With this fearless 
attitude of mind, and the organs of the body free 
from friction, or restricting pressure, the digestion 
and assimilation of food is continuous and perfect. 

Dancing or harmony steps without personal con- 
tact should be a part of recreation for young and 
old. Early hours must be observed. Private par- 
ties in the open air should be encouraged for lon- 
gevity. 

The quickening influence of the rays of sunlight 
cannot be over estimated. Its action is in harmony 
with the subjective life principle of natural growth ; 
and the vitality is more perfect when much of the 
time is spent in the sun and air, providing extreme 
heat is avoided. 

In addition to the more potent influences essential 
to long life it must not be forgotten that ambitions, 
emotions, passions, conversation, and even the 



1 



1^72 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

thoughts either stimulate or hinder digestion, be- 
sides imparting greater vitality and power of en- 
durance to the body cells, else leaving them ex- 
hausted and depleted, inducing the drawn careworn 
expression of premature age. 

William James says: "Primarily the mental life 
is for the sake of actions of a preservative sort," 
thus life is not mysterious and uncertain, but may 
be made scientific in the highest sense of the term, 
if the mind is used as it should be— for life instead 
of for death. 

It IS scientific to select food which sustains de- 
velopment instead of that which loads the system 
with death-producing poison. 

It is scientific to control the emotions, appetites, 
and passions within the laws of "enough," instead 
of being over-ruled and destroyed by them. 

It is scientific to entertain thoughts of kindness 
instead of thoughts of hatred : thoughts of peace and 
contentment instead of those of discontent ; thoughts 
of happiness instead of thoughts of misery and 
worry which check the natural influx of vital force. 

It is scientific to hold suggestions of health and 
perfect action of the organs of the body until they 
respond in harmony, generating the protective anti- 



ASSOCIATE INFLUENCES. 273 

toxin instead of harboring thoughts of fear and 
weakness, making disease conditions more fixed. 

It is scientific to curb the desire for wealth and 
fame within the bounds of the natural possibilities of 
the individual, permitting of fair success and con- 
tinuous development, with the full enjoyment of the 
faculties for centuries, instead of rushing headlong 
for a day to plunge into suffering and early death. 

It is scientific to hold the vision of the perfect 
ego in mind upon retiring, commanding the subjec- 
tive self to impress the new growth of tissue with 
freshness and youth during sleep, instead of drifting 
with the race belief of old age and early death. 

It is more scientific to relax occasionally, rest and 
maintain permanent growth and repair than to dissi- 
pate the forces in incessant action. 

It is more scientific to accumulate vitality for the 
preservation of youth than to accumulate an excess- 
ive amount of money only to share the growing un* 
popularity of the millionaire. 

It is more scientific to overcome race suicide by 
prolonging the life of the individual than by bring- 
ing needless millions of helpless beings into exist- 
ence only to suffer and die. The Divine idea of 
parentage and home can be realized only through 
scientific living. 



274 SCIENTIFIC LIVING. 

Considering the real purpose of life, it is time 
that everyone should feel with little David in Mrs. 
Deland's last novel, "That God must be discouraged 
to have everyone He makes die," and arouse a 
greater effort to live. 

Man is endowed with reason and judgment that he 
may intelligently direct his thoughts and acts to pro- 
long his existence instead of to hasten decay. It is 
only willing, deliberate effort to obey the laws of 
life that honors infinite wisdom. In preserving his 
life indefinitely, man is fulfilling his highest destiny 
— gaining the most of happiness and success in this 
world and establishing the truest foundation for 
the future. He is building his objective life in har- 
mony with his subjective self to the best of his 
ability, enabling each succeeding generation to live 
longer and with higher purpose and possibilities until 
the average term of human life reaches a thousand 
years, beyond which the finite mind does not even 
venture to conjecture. 



THK END. 



INDEX. 

A. PAGE 

Abnormal Conditions 2, 14, 17, 30, 32, 40, 68, 241 

Air 152, 268 

Almonds 116 

Animals, Length of Life 67 

Animal Cells 55 

Anti-Toxin 131, 239 

Apples 113 

Artificial Life 128 

Asparagus 96 

Associate Influences 264 

Atwater's Statements Regarding Food 105 

Auto-Suggestion 29, 41, 49 

B. 

Bacteria 47, yz, 77 

Baking- Powder 167 

Bananas 219, 221 

Beans « 96, 207 

Beans, Green 95, 207 

Beets 96 

Berries 114 

Best System of Diet for Prolonging Life 251 

Biologists . ^ 51, 56 

Biscuits 8i4, 172 

Blood, Good 127 

Breakfast, plan no 133, 253 

Breakfast, Natural 152, 253 

Breath of Life 258 

Bread 163 

Beaten Biscuits 170 

Peanut Bread 170 

275 



276 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Unfired Bread 170 

Unleavened Bread 162 

Unleavened Com Bread 170 

Unleavened Gems 170 

Unleavened Rolls 160 

Whole Wheat Bread 168 

Whole Wheat Biscuits 170 

Bulk loi 

Buttermilk as an "Elixir" 162, 164 

Butter 229 

Butter, Nut 190 

C. 

Cancer 16 

Cakes 230 

Carbohydrates 61, 62, loi, 109 

Carrots 96, 113 

Cauliflower 96, 113 

Celery 113 

Central Truth in All Systems 23, 36 

Cereals 97, 176 

Cooked Cereals 176 

Uncooked Cereals 179 

Fruit and Uncooked Cereals , . 179 

Pressed Fruit Cereal 179 

Cell Vitality 49 

Cell Growth 15, 46, 57 

Cell Structure 53 

Cell Reproduction .55, 57, 64, 68 

Cells, Dead 51, 57, 60, 68, 109, 144 

Cells, Living 3^, 51, 60, 79, 127, 140, 144 

Cells, Vegetable, and Animal 55, 56 

Cells of Octogenarian 6 

Cellulose 76 

Chafing Dish 89, 155 

Cheese 185 

Cheese Dainty 186 

Cheese on Toast 188 

Cheese Ramokin 187 

Cheese Souffle ^ . . . . 187 

Cheese, Its Danger 188 

Macaroni and Cheese 186 



INDEX. 2^7 

PAGE 

Welch Rarebit 187 

Chemical Changes Within the System 124, 131 

Chemistry of Cooking 85 

Chemistry of Food 152, 105, 125, 146, 149, 150, 237 

Cherries 221 

Children 29, 30, 31, 145 

Christians and Long Life 10 

Christian Science 7, 33, 34 

Christmas 46 

Coffee 2^7 

Combinations of Food 98 

Condiments 139, 233 

Cooking 52, 64, 71, 79, ^7, i55, 254 

Cooking Regulated 71 

Cooking, Object in 73 

Combinations, Proper 98 

Conquest of Death 10 

Constipation 48, 112, 139, 256 

Constructive Ferments .62, 129, 130 

Consumptives ., 162, 269 

Constructive Influences .' 14, 243 

Corn 117, 204 

Cream 117, 229 

Cucumbers 205 

Cultivating Power 268 

Custards 71^ 97 

D. 

Dates .218, 221, 228 

Death, Cause of 2il 

Delusion of Fear 28, 36 

Demands of Life 17 

Demonstrating Over 7, 16, 17, 24, 25, 34, 35, 49, 143 

Desire for Long Life 32 

Destructive Things 14 

Digestion, Process of 125 

French Dressing 213 

French Dressing 211 

Hot Salad Cream Dressing 214 

Fruit Salad Dressing 213 

Mayonnaise Dressings 213 

Diet, Best System for Prolong Life 251 



278 , INDEX. 

PAGE 

Dieting 39, 47, 49, 69 

Dish Washing I53 

Double Boiler 89 

Double Man 3 

Dried Fruit 123, 222 

Drinking 102 

E. 

Economy of Meatless Diet 202 

Education for Long Life 8, 9, 13, 21, 142, 2^], 242, 249, 257 

Effects of Cooking Food in the Old Way 51, 65 

Eggs 180 

Egg Cutlets 182 

Escalloped Eggs 182 

Fairies Breath 182 

French Poached Eggs 181 

Fruit Omelet 184 

Long Life Beverage 183 

Omelet 183 

Poached Eggs 180 

Scrambled Eggs 181 

Stuffed Eggs 182 

Vegetable Omelet 184 

Egg-Plant 192 

Ego or Life Principle 2, 16, 22 

Electricity for Cooking 155 

Elements of Food 61 

Emancipation of Woman 143, 249, 252 

Energy, How Measured 132 

Exact Methods of Scientific Cooking 158 

Exercise 152, 270 

Extractives 108, 109 

F. 

Fasting 40 

Fat, Abnormal, How Avoided 63 

Fat, Why it Accumulates 62 

Fats, as a Food 61, 62, 74, joi, 109, iii, 120, 228 

Fear, Delusion of 28, 55 

Fear, Its effect upon the Vital Current 28, z^y 35, 5o, I44 

Fermentation 129, 164, 165, 228 

Figs 123, 218 



INDEX. 279 

PAGE 

Fireless Cooker 90 

First Steps in Long Life 9, n 

Flaked Wheat 179 

Flavor of Food 85, 241 

Flaked Wheat 179 

Food, Amount 37, 40, 47, 48, 68, 115, 134, I44, I49 

Food, Kind for Each Meal 137, 140 

Food, Kinds of Elements 61 

Formless Ferments 126, 129 

French Dressing 213 

Fruit, How to Cook Some Kinds 219 

Fruit, How to Serve 221 

Fruit, Medicinal Value 115, 215 

Fruit, Purpose of Each Kind 1 14 

Fruit Salad 213 

Fruit, Unripe 114 

Fruits 105, 215 

Frying 89 

G. 

Gastric Juice • 29, 125 

Gelatine 109 

Germs 78 

Grapes 1 14 

G 'eat Central Truth 23, 36 

Greatest Good 4, 5, 66, 70, 79, 153 

Green Vegetables 203 

Greens, How to Cook 9(6, 214 

Glands 31 

H. 

Habit 30, 39, 44, 156, 253 

Happiness 5, 29, 58, 40, 41, 226, 239, 242, 249 

Heat, Destruction 51, 75 

Heat, Effect of 51, 75, 76 

Heat, Regulation of 75. 80, 88 

Heat, Scientific Application 80, 83 

How to Be^in to Live for Long Life 9, 158 

How Life is Manifest in the Cells 57 

Human Cells 59 



38o INDEX. 

PAGE 
I. 

Ices 228, 233 

Ice Water 267 

Importance of Proteid 61 

Intemperance 48 

Iron 113, 114 

J. 

Jelly 229 

Judgment in Selecting Food and Clothing 142, 267 

Juices of Fruit 114, 152, 215 

Justice to Life 13 

K. 

Kind of Tissue 46 

Kinds of Food for Each Meal 137, 140 

L. 

Labor Saving 153, 157 

Law of Change of Appetite 240 

Laxatives 112, 114, 256 

Life, Ups and Downs 51, 66 

Liquids 102, 257 

Long Life 66, 71, 158, 242, 252 

Long Life, Desire for 32 

Luxuries 48, 226 

Luxuries, Poisonous and Non-Poisonous 223 

M. 

Macaroni 97, 247 

Mastication 125 

Medicinal Value of Fruit 115, 215 

Meat, Reasons for Avoiding 193, 203 

Melon 114 

Mental Concepts 15, 16 

Menu, Long Life 261 

Menu, Simple Life 242 

Milk . . 145, 161 

Millennial Race 28, 247 

Mind, Reason :. 11, 12, 13, 22, 29, 33, 36, 41, 48, 240 

Mineral Elements 51, 80 108 

Mineral Water 266 



INDEX. 281 

PAGE 

N. 

Natural Breakfast 152, 253 

Natural Breakfast and Luncheon 251 

Naturalist, Food 51 

Nature Urges Toward Perfection.. 3, 18, :i2, 35, 36, 53, 65, 69, 

70, 135 
Nervous Prostration 56 

New Cells 6 

New Devices for Saving Labor 153 

New Race 38, 274 

New Woman, The 148 

No Breakfast Plan 133, 253 

Normal Man 13 

Normal Requisites 14, 21, 36, 40, 102 

Number of Meals ; 134 

Nucleus of Cells 59, yy, 82 

Nut Butter 190 

Nut Cream 190 

Nut Cutlets 191 

Nut Loaf 190 

Nut Pie, Pecan 192 

Nut Preparations. 

Cocoanut Pie Crust 172 

Nut Salads 193 

Nut Sandwiches 193 

Potato Souffle 193 

Tomato Souffle 192 

Vegetable Pie 192 

Nut-Meat Cakes 191 

Nut-Stuffed Egg- Plant 192 

Nuts, Meat Substitute 188 

O. 

Oat Meal 97, 126 

Object in Cooking ^ 73 

Objective Self i, 247 

Old Age Disease 6, 54, 62 

Old Age, Dr. Osier's Idea 8 

Old Age, Elixirs of Scientists 130 

Old Age, Never too Late to Rebuild the Body 62, 131, 251 

Olive Oil : 229 

Oranges 191* 215 



282 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Organic Substance or Life 51, 56, 64, 129 

Onions 113 

Oxygen 268 

P. 

Pain 6, 15 

Peaches 114 

Peas 95, g6 

People Can Live, Why 65 

Pepper 256 

Pickles 134, 213 

Pies and Puddings 229 

Pineapple 221 

Poison, As Cause of Disease 16, 47, 52, 54, 69, 80, 130, 131, 

139, 234, 237, 239, 254 

::atoes 209 

Potatoes, Baked 96, 209 

Potatoes, Cream 209 

Potatoes, Heated 209 

Potatoes, Simmered 209 

Potatoes, Sweet 96, 210 

Proper Combinations 98 

Prunes 114 

Proteid, Its Importance 47, 56, 61, 65, 108, 121 

Purpose of Life i, 4 

Purpose of Regular Eating , 44, 144 

R. 

Raisins « 231 

Raw Food ^ 52, 143 

Refuse . . 109 

Regular Eating, Purpose of 44, 134 

Regulation ziy 4i» ^ZZy I39 

Regulation of Heat 75, 80, 88 

Requirements for Long Life 9, 11 

Requirements for Long Life 9, 11, 18, 38, 53, 132 

Rice 97 

S. 

Sacrifice 17, 27, 38 

Salads 210 

Salad, Fruit 213 



INDEX. 283 

PAGE 

Salad, Fruit 214 

Salad, Hot 214 

Salad, Hot Greens 214 

Salad, Irish Stew 214 

Salad, Lettuce 213 

Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing 212 

Salad, Nut 213 

Salads, French Dressing for 212 

Salads Hot and Cold 103, 210 

Salt 159, 238 

Sauces 234 

Scientific Application of Heat to Food 80 

Scientific Living 2, 39, 40, 52, 153, 272 

Seasoning 159 

Selecting Food and Clothing 142, 267 

Serums 130 

Simmering Food , 87 

Simple Life, Its Popularity 20, ^, 157 

Simple Life or Regulated Menus 245 

Sleep 42, 268 

Soup 96 

Starch 61, 73, 74, 120 

Steaming 89 

Stimulant io3, 109, 126, 259 

Subjective Self 2, 14 

Sugar 81, III, 113, 226 

Sunday Dinner 153, 248 

Sweetmeats 29 

System 141 

Sweets and Other Luxuries 225 

T. 

Tables of Chemical , Salts 205 

Tables of Food Values 116, 120 

Tables, Proteine 121 

Taste 30, 31, 32, 37, 39, 40, 241 

Tea 217, 237 

Temperance i 217 

Time of Eating 133 

Tissue, Body Growth 46, 57, 68 

Toast 173 

Toast, and English Walnuts 176 



284 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Toast, Cheese 174 

Toast, Cream 175 

Toast, Egg 175 

Toas^ Golden Ball 176 

Toast, Grandmother's 174 

Toast, Milk 174 

Toast, Nut 175 

Toast, Poached Eggs 175 

Tomatoes 113 

Tumor and Cancer — Mental Concepts 16 

Dncoolced Cereals 179 

Unfired Bread 99, 100, 165 

Unleavened Bread 169, 170 

Unripe Fruit 114 

V. 

Vegetable Cells 56 

Vegetables 203 

Vegetables, Kinds for Standard Food 209, 210 

Vegetables, Nutritive 204 

Vegetables, Succulent 204 

Vinegar 222 

Vital Force, Influx of 3 

Vitality 17, 20, 22, 23, 28, 29, 35, Z7. 38, 4i, 44, 50, 

63,67 

W. 

Waste 47, 26s 

Water, Mineral 266 

Welch Rarebit 97, 172, 187 

V hole Wheat Bread 168 

Why People Can Live 65 

Why People Grow Fat or Thin 62 

Woman, Emancipation of 143, 249, 252 

Y. 

Yeast Germ 56, 78, 165 

Youth 63, 64, 132, 253 



A List of Publications 

of the Health-Culture Co. 

45 ASCENSION AVENUE, 
PASSAIC, N. J., U.S. A. 



ttMlth-Cttltart. 

The largest and best illustrated monthly mag^azine published on the 
preservation and restoration of health, bodily development and physical 
culture for men, women and children. W. R. C. Latton, M. D., Bditor, 
f i.oo a year : xoc. a number. 

Common Dloordon. 

With rational Methods of Treatment, Including Diet, Bxercise, Baths, 
Massotherapy, etc. By W. R. C. Latson, IC. D., Editor of Health • 
Culture ; 340 pages, aoo illustrations. $x.oo. 

Tho Pood ValBO of Moat. 

Flesh Food Not Essential to Physical or Mental Vigor. By W. R. C. 
Latson, M. D. Illustrated. Paper, 25 cents. Cloth, 50 cents. 

Or. Lotton't Hoolth Chart. 

Presenting in an Attractive and Compiehensive Form a Complete System 

of Physical Culture Exercises, fully Illustrated with Poses From Life, 

with Special Directions for Securing Symmetrical Development, for 

Building up the Thin Body, for Reducing Obesity, and for the Increase 

of General Vitality. 18x25 inches printed on fine paper, bound with 

metai, with rings to hang on the wall. 

This chart Is not for sale, but given as a premium to yearly subscribers to 
Hbalth-Culturb, at $z.oo a year. 

Vacooktd Pooda. 

And How to I^ive on Them. With Recipes for Whole some Prepara- 
tion, Proper Combinations and Menus, with the Reason Uncooked 
Food is Best for the Promotion of Health, Strength and Vitality. 
By Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Christian. Cloth, |x.oo. 

Tba !kw Intoraal Bath. 

An Improved Method of Flushing the Colon or Administering an Bneauu 
For tho relief of Acute and Chronic DiseaMt. By Laura M. Wrigh;^ 
M. D. Illustrated, ascefttli 



Sdeiitillc LiTiBir* 

For Prolonpincr the Term of Human Life. The New Domes- 
tic Science, Cooking to Simplify Livingr and Retalnlngr the Life 
Elements in Food. By Laura Nettleton Brown. $1.00. 
This work presents new views on the health question, especially as 
related to food. It treats of the life in food, showing that in the 
preparation of food \>y the usual methods the life-giving vitality is 
destroyed; that is, the organic elements become inorganic. The 
reason is clearly stated and recipes and directions for cooking, with 
menus for a balanced dietary, are given. 

Cooklnff for Health, 

Or Plain Cookery, With Health Hints. By Rachel Swain, M. 

D. 11-00. 
This book is the outcome of progress in the kitchen, and provides 
for the preparation of food with direct reference to health. It is 
not an invalids' Cook Book, but for all who believe in eating for 
strength, and the use of the best foods at all times. 

The No-Breakfast Plan and Fastfaig Cure. 

By Edward Hooker Dewey, M. D. Cloth, $1.00. 
Presents his theories in a clear, concise, practical way, together 
with specific and definite instructions for the carrying out of this 
method of living and treatment. 

Kxperlences of the No- Breakfast Plan and Fasting Cure. 

A letter in answer to the many questions asking for special 
details as to methods and results. By Dr. Dewey, 50c. 

CfaronSc Alcoholism x 

Its Radical Cure. A new method of treatment for those 
affiicted with the alcohol habit, without the use of drugs. By 
Dr. Dewey. 50c 

Health In the Home. 

A Practical Work on the Promotion and Preservation of 
Health, with Illustrated Prescriptions of Swedish Gymnastic 
Exercises for Home and Club Practice. By E. Marguerite 
Lindley. $1.00. 
Unquestionably the best and most important work ever publisned 
for the promotion of the health of women and children. 

Tlie Temperaments; 

Or Varieties of Physical Constitution in Man In Their Rela- 
tions to Mental Character and the Practical Affairs of Life,, 
etc. By D. H. Jacques, M. D. Nearly 150 Illustrations. $1.50. 
The only work published on this important and interesting sub- 
ject. The author made it the special subject of study and was 
thoroughly familiar with all temperamental questions. 

The Avoidable Causes of Disease; 

Insanity and Deformity, Together with Marriage and Its 
Violations. By John Ellis, M. D. New Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged by the Author, with the Collaboration of Dr. Sarah 
M. Ellis. $1.00. 
This book should be in every library, and If read and its teach- 
ings followed nearly all sickness and disease would be avoided 
with the accompanying suffering and expense— one of the most 
valuable works ever published. 

I^ial Diagnosis. 

The Indications of Disease as Shown in the Face. By Dr. 
Louis Kuhne. Illustrated. $1.00. 



««wmaiily Beauty. 

Of Form and Feature. The Culti^atioa and Preservation of Personal 
Beauty Based upon Heaitn and Hygiene. By Twenty Well-known 
Physicians and Specialists. With 80 half-tone and other Illustra- 
tions. . Edited by Albert Turner. 300 pages, cloth and gold. Price, $1. 

In this volume the Editor has brought together the teachings of those who 
have made a study of special features of this subject, and the result is a 
work that is unique and practical, not filled with a medley of receipts and 
formulas, so often found in books on beauty. 

Manhood Wrecked and Rescued. 

How Strength and Vigor is Lost and How it may be Restored by Self- 
Treatment. A Series of Chapters to Men on Social Purity and Right 
Living. By Rev. W. J. Hunter, Ph. D., D.D. Cloth. $1.00. 
It contains the following chapters: The Wreck — An Ancient Wreck— A 

Modern Wreck— A Youthful Wreck— A Wreck Escaped— The Rescue Begun— 

The Rescue Continued — The Rescue Completed. 

Illustrated Hints upon Health and Strength for Busy People. 

Text and Illustrations by Adrian Peter Schmidt, Professor of Higher 
l*hysical Culture. Price, in portfolio, paper form, $1,00. Cloth bind^ 
i^gi |i 50- Constituting the best System of Physical Culture published. 

The Children's Health. 

A Practical Treatise Dealing with the Care of the Child from Birth 
to Maturity. z2mo., cloth, 380 pages. Price. $£.00. 

The Young Woman's Physical Development. 

For Health, Grace and Strength. Illustrated, by Maud Gleason. 15c. 

This work contains general directions for the promotion of the best physical 
conditions and a set of practical exercises for every day use for those who 
would be well and look well. 

Scoliosis, or Lateral Curvature of the Spine. 

Causes and Treatment. By Adella J. Smith. Illustrated. Cloth, 50c. 

This is a work for all parents and teachers who would give to the children 
in their charge such treatment and care as will preserve and secure sym- 
metry of development. Directions are given for the cure of all cases in the 
beginning, as well as preventing any from becoming worse. 

Human Nature Explained. 

A new Illustrated Treatise on Human Science for the People. By 

Prof . N. N. Riddell. Illustrated. 400 pages. Extra cloth binding, fi.oo. 

Men and women differ in character as they do in looks and temperament ; 

no two are just alike. If you would know these **Signs of Character," 

read **Human Nature Explained." and you can read men as an open book. 

It gives the most complete system of reading character ever published. 

Human Nature Indexed. 

A Descriptive Chart for use of Phrenologists. By N. N. Riddell. asc 



What Shall Wa Eat ? 

Tke Food Qacstion, from the Standpoint of Health, Strength and 
Sconomy. Containing Numerous Tables Showing the Constituant Ele- 
ments of over Three Hundred Food Products and Their Relations, 
Cost and Nutritious Values, Time of Digestion, etc.. Indicating Best 
Foods for all Classes and Conditions. By Alfred Andrews. Price* 
leatherette, 50c.; cloth binding, 75c. 

The New Method. 

In Health and Disease. By W. B« Forest, B.S., M,D., Fellow of N. Y. 

Academy of Medicine. Sixteenth Edition. Revised and enlarged by 

Albert Turner, Publisher of Health-Culture. 350 pp., clo. binding, $1. 

It makes the way from weakness to strength so plain that only those who 

are past recovery (the very few) need to be sick, and the well who will follow 

its teachings cannot be sick, saving the need of calling a physician and al^ 

expenses for medicine. 

Maasotherapy. 

Or the Use of Massage Rollers and Muscle Beaters in Indigestioia^ 
Constipation, Liver Trouble, Paralysis, Neuralgia and Other Functional 
Diseases. By W.E. Forest, M. D. asc 

GoBstlpatlaa. 

lu Causes and Proper Treatment Without the Use of Drugs. By W 
£. Forest, M. D. The only rational method of cure. zoc. 

Hygiealc Cookery. 

Or Health in the Household. By Susanna W. Dodds, H. D. fa.oo. 

It is unquestionably the best work ever written on the healthful pre- 
paration of food, and should be in the hands of every housekeeper who 
wishes to prepare food healthfully and palatably. 

Tho DIot QnettiOB. 

Giving Reasons Why— Rules of Diet. By Dr. Dodds. ssc. 

The Liver and Kidneys. 

With a Chapter on Malaria, Part I. The Liver and Its Functions, 
Diseases and Treatment. Part II. The Kidneys, Their Healthy 
Action and How to Secure It. Part III Malarial Fever, Rational 
Treatment by Hygienic Methods. By Dr. Dodds. 25c. 

The Phlloaophy of Eating. 

Why Food is needed, and how it sustains Life and Strength. By 
Susanna W. Dodds, M. D. 95c. (In press.) 

By Mall on Receipt of Price. Address: 
THE HEALTH-CULTURE CO., 



HEALTH-CULTURE 

A JOURNAL OF PRACTICAL HYGIENE 

W, R C. LATSON, M.D. Editor. 

ALBERT TURNER .-.-•-. Proprietor 



Health-Culture stands for higher ideals of life and bet- 
ter living and all that is implied by this. Its aim will be to 
make men and women better Physically, Mentally and Mor- 
ally, to save the lives of children, adding to the length of life 
and to the value of human existence by increasing the ability 
to accomplish and enjoy. 

Health is and should be a most valuable asset. With it 
you can meet any strain or stress that may come to you, be 
ready for the emergencies of life and able to do your best. 
Without it one cannot prosper or be happy. 

Health is a duty. You have uo right to be sick and be- 
come a burden not only to yourself, but to others, for in this 
you cannot suffer alone; a wide circle of those who are inno- 
cent must suffer with the sick. 

Health is within the reach of all. It is simply a matter 
of knowing something about how to live and the right use ot 
Food, Air, Exercise and the Mind. Living to be well makes 
life a delight, not a burden. The person who is well does 
not have to sacrifice the joys of living; only the sick do that. 

TERMS— Health-Culture is published monthly at $i.oo a 
year, lOc. a number. Sample copy free. 

THE HEALTH -CULTURE COMPANY 

45 Ascension Street, - - PASSAIC, N.T. 



The Health Culture Co. 



For more than a dozen years the business of the Health- 
Culture Co. was conducted in New York City, moving from 
place to place as increased room was needed or a new loca- 
tion seemed to be more desirable. 

In 1907 the business was removed to (Passaic, N. J., where 
it is pleasantly and permanently located in a building belong- 
ing to the proprietor of the company. 

There has never been as much interest in the promotion 
and preservation of personal health as exists to-day. MJen 
and women everywhere are seeking information as to the 
best means of increasing health and strength with physical 
and mental vigor. 

HEALTH-CULTURE, a monthly publication devoted to 
Practical Hygiene and Bodily Culture, is unquestionably the 
best publication of its kind ever issued. It has a large cir- 
culation and exerts a wide influence, numbering among its 
contributors the best and foremost writers on the subject. 

THE BOOKS issued and for sale by this Company are 
practical and include the very best works published relatmg 
to Health and Hygiene. 

THE HEALTH APPLIANCES, manufactured and for 
sale, include Dr. Forest's Massage Rollers and Developers, 
Dr. Wright's Colon Syringes, the Wilhide Exhaler, etc., and 
we are prepared to furnish anything in this line, Water-Stills, 
Exercisers, etc. 

CIRCULARS and price lists giving full particulars will be 
sent on application. 

INQUIRIES as to what books to read or what appliances 
to procure for any special conditions cheerfully and fully 
answered. If you have any doubts state your case and we 
will tell you what will best meet it. If you want books of 
any kind we can supply them at publisher's prices. 

Address 

THE HEALTH-CULTURE CO., 

Turner Building, Passaic, N. J. . 



^]ty> 



^ 



Col A I jri 





^ 



..-' «* s 



