Cornell University Library 
TX 715.W37 



Tried and true :five hundred recipes wit 




3 1924 000 654 826 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000654826 



TRILD AND TRUL 



BUCKLAND PRINTING COMPANY 
(Beneral iprfntcrs 
72.74 MUdlc Street 

Lowell ' ' ' ^'"- 



TRILD AND TRUL 



Five Hundred Recipes With 

Practical Culinary 

Suggestions 




BY 



CAROLYN PUTNAM WLBBE.R 



1909 



Q» 






'Three things are essential to life: air, water and FOOD." — //oj'. 



■ Food is that which taken into the body satisfies hunger, supplies 
energy and replaces the wastes of the body." 



" Every man is not born with the qualifications necessary to constitute 
a good cook. What study demands more study ? Cookery is an art ap- 
preciated by only a few individuals and which requires, in addition to 
most diligent and studious application, no small share of intellect, and the 
strictest sobriety and punctuality. There are cooks and cooks, but where is 
the perfect cook ? " — Ude. 



FOIRLWORD 



The following pages bring to my pupils, listeners and 
friends a collection of " TRIED and TRUE ''recipes, with 
practical suggestions as to their preparation. Most of these 
recipes have been given to different audiences on the recipe- 
slips used at Demonstration Lectures, but are liere assembled 
for every-day use. The recipes are not all original by any 
means, but have all been tested and, in many cases, slightly 
changed to meet my personal tastes and principles of cookery. 



CONTLNT5 



Beginnings and Appetizers .... 'J 

Beverages 124 

Breads . 59 

Cakes 72 

Calendar of Food in Seasons 136 

Cold Desserts 104 

Confections. ... 126 

Cookies and Doughnuts 84 

Eggs 40 

Entrees 44 

Fish 18 

Frostings .... 81 

Frozen Dishes 118 

Hot Desserts 97 

Invalid Cookery and Diets 130 

Marketing Hints . 135 

Measurements 8 

Meat and Fish Sauces 32 

Meats 23 

Menus for Occasions 132 

Pastry 89 

Pudding Sauces 115 

Salads 55 

Sandwiches 70 

Soups 12 

Table Setting and Serving 137 

Vegetables 36 

For General Index, see end of book. 



Weights and Measurements 



Accurate measurements are necessary to insure success. 
Flour should be once sifted before measuring. 
Level measurements are always to be used. 



4 saltspoons 1 teaspoon 

3 teaspoons • 1 tablespoon 

16 tablespoons 1 cup 

2 tablespoons butter 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons flour 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar 1 ounce 

M lb. butter 1 cup 

% lb. flour 1 cup 

yi lb. sugar 1 cup 

/j iC- 'i^tft^Si^ - — — 5'^d6</f^ 

The cup used should have the half, third and quarter 
marked on it. 

Vz spoonful should be taken lengthwise and not crosswise 
of the spoon and }^ is one half of the half spoonful. 



Beginniiigs and Appetizers 



" The palate is the janitor ; unless he be reconciled the most 
nutritious food will find no welcome." 

Hors-d'OEuvres (Appetizers) should be used as the first 
course for the company dinner. The origin of the course is to 
be found in Russian culinary art and now is the preface to the 
more elaborate repasts in all countries. Oysters, caviare, 
sardines and eggs are most often used in making the canapes 
and dainties under this heading. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

1 tbsp. vinegar 2 tbsp. catsup 

1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

3^ tsp. salt 2 doz. oysters 

Mix the seasonings and let it then stand on the oysters an 
hour. Six servings. 

CAVIARE CANAPES 

Butter rounds of brown bread, put on them rings of hard- 
cooked eggs and caviare, mixed with lemon or French dressing. 
Garnish with cucumbers. 

SWEDISH LETTUCE 

1 c. chopped cabbage ^ c. cut celery 

% tbsp. sugar % tsp. salt. 

M tsp. mustard seed French dressing 

Serve on lettuce leaves. 



10 TRIED AND TRUE 



HORS D'CEUVRE OF SHRIflPS 

Arrange shrimp on toast fingers with either cucumbers or 
radishes, or both, as a garnish, and add salad dressing. Often 
a lettuce leaf is placed under the toast. 

VALENTINE CANAPES 

Cook half finely chopped onion in one tablespoon of butter 
three minutes. Add two tablespoons flour, one cup milk, and 
cook until mixture thickens. Add half teaspoon salt, quarter 
teaspoon paprika, a little pepper and half pound of shrimp 
meat. Toast rounds of bread cut half inch thick on one side, 
spread with equal parts of butter and cheese, creamed together 
and seasoned with salt and black pepper. On top place shrimp 
and place in a hot oven until slightly browned. Garnish with 
red pepper. 

SARDINES AU flAIRE 

9 sardines 3 yolks 

1 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. milk 

Vz tsp. lemon juice Salt 

Yi tsp. mustard Cayenne 

9 toast fingers 

Heat sardines in oven. Beat yolks, add other ingredients 
and stir over heat till blended. Cover sardines on toast with 
this mixture and garnish. 

QRAPE=FRUIT JELLY 

Soften one tablespoon of Knox gelatine in half cup water, 
dissolve with one-quarter cup of boiling water. Add one- 
quarter cup of sugar, one and one-half grape-fruit pulp and 
juice and one teaspoon lemon juice. Garnish as desired ; 
mould. Serve at luncheon or dinner. 

PINEAPPLE AND STRAWBERRY CORDIAL 

Sweeten and slightly mash the- berries and carefully cut 
the pineapple. Serve in glasses on doily and plate. 



BEGINNINGS AND APPETIZERS 11 



TOrVATOES AND CORN 

Use firm tomatoes and cut off the top slice and scoop out 
the pulp from the shells. Cut the kernels from two or three 
ears of corn, mix and season with salt and pepper, butter and 
return to the tomato shells ; then cover with bread crumbs, 
seasoned with chopped parsley, and bake in pan with very 
little water for twenty minutes. Serve on rounds of toast. 

SHRIMPS IN TOMATO CASES 

13^ c. shrimps 6 tomatoes 

2 tbsp. butter Onion juice 

1 c. bread crumbs % c. cream 

Salt, pepper Speck soda 

Cut tomatoes in halves, remove pulp, add butter and sea- 
sonings. Cook till reduced one half, and add soda and cream. 
Combine with shrimps, cut into small pieces and fill the cases. 
Cover with buttered crumbs and heat. Serve on toast. 



-^•Z 



12 TRIED AND TRUE 



5ou ps 



"Take one part of gumption and one part of food." — Atkinson. 

Soups can be divided into two classes: those made with 
stock and those made without stock. The clear stock soups do 
not contain much nourishment, but are the best for dinner 
soups, as they will stimulate the secretions of the digestive 
system, and if served hot, thus prepare the stomach for the 
other courses. 

After cooling stock always remove all fat which gathers 
on the top, and clear it, if desired, by allowing one slightly 
beaten white of Q^g and the shell to each quart of stock. Add 
to the stock and place on the front of the range to bring to the 
boiling point, and boil two or three minutes; then simmer 
with verjr little heat applied for fifteen or twenty minutes, and 
strain through cheese cloth. 

The cream soups consist of the milk and water, the 
vegetable, the binding, i. e., flour and butter, and the season- 
ings. In adding the flour to a'soup or sauce, it is usually 
preferable to melt the butter, blend with it the flour, dilute 
with some of the liquid (hot, if any of the liquids to be used 
are warm), and then combine all. The other method of adding 
thickening to a liquid is, to first mix it gradually with a small 
quantity of cold water or milk. 

JULIENNE SOUP 

1 qt. brown stock H c. carrot 

% c. turnip % c. green peas 

Cut vegetables, boil. Add to hot, seasoned stock. Veget- 
ables are cut in narrow strips. 



SOUPS 13 



BROWN STOCK 



3 lbs. hind shin beef 3 qts. cold water 

5 whole cloves 5 peppercorns 

% tbsp. salt 1 onion 

}i carrot 3^ turnip 

Sprig parsley Celery 

Wipe and cut meat. Put bones and half of meat into 
kettle with water. Soak one hour. Brown onion and rest of 
meat. 'Add all ; simmer six hours. Strain and cool quickly. 

BROWN CELERY SOUP 

1 pt. brown stock % small onion 

1 oz. ham or bacon 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 1 c. celery 
Salt Pepper 

Trim and cut celery. Put one cup of celery with three 
cups of cold water. Cook slowly till tender. Add all ingre- 
dients. Season well ; strain. 

CREOLE SOUP 

1 qt. brown stock Salt 

1 pt. tomatoes Pepper 

y'i c. flour M c. butter 

1 tsp. vinegar V2 c. macaroni rings 

Heat stock, add tomatoes, bindings and vinegar, and 
macaroni rings just before serving. Strain. 

WHITE STOCK 

Cool the water in which chicken or fowl has been cooked 
and season it for white stock. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

To well seasoned white stock add rice or barley, as 
desired. 



4 


tbsp. flour 


y-^ 


tsp. salt 


1 


pt. milk 


J'2 


can tomatoes 



14 TRIED AND TRUE 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 can tomatoes 2 slices onion 

2 c. water 1 tsp. sugar 

1 tsp. salt Pepper 

34 bay leaf Js tsp. soda 

3 cloves 3 tsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 

Blend butter and flour. Add one third of the hot tomato, 
water and seasonings, which have cooked fifteen minutes and 
been strained. Cook till thick and combine all. Serve with 
croutons. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

2 tbsp. butter 

Pepper 

1 pt. water 

34 tsp. soda 
Onion juice if desired 

Mix in given order, adding hot tomatoes and soda just 
before straining and serving. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP 

1 can asparagus 2 tsp. salt 

4 c. cold water Cayenne 

3 tbsp. butter 3 c. milk 

3 tbsp. flour 2 slices onion 

Drain and cook with milk. Press through sieve; reserve 
tips. Combine and bind. 

QOLDEN SOUP 

Va c. cooked squash 3 tbsp. flour 

1 qt. milk 1 tsp salt 

1 slice onion Pepper 

2 tbsp. butter Celery, salt 

Rub squash through sieve before measuring. Combine, 
bind and season. 



SOUPS 



15 







ROYAL SOUP 




2 


qts. white stock 


3 yolks 


hard-cooked eggs 


3 


tbsp. flour 




3 tbsp. 


butter 


Seasonings 












CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 


^ 


bunch celery 




Wz pt. milk 


3 


tbsp. butter 




3 tbsp. 


flour 


Speck pepper 




Speck onion juice 


1 


tsp. salt 




2Ji c. cold water 


Few celery tips to 


garnish 







Cover celery after cutting it into small pieces with cold 
water ; cook until soft. In a double boiler heat milk, add 
thickening and seasonings. Strain and add celery water 
(make it one pint any way) to milk mixture. Pour slowly. 





CREAH OF PEA SOUP 


1 can peas 






2 tbsp. butter 


2 c. water 






1 tsp. salt 


3 tbsp. flour 






2 c. milk 


1 slice onion or j 


uice 




Pepper 


Follow sauce 


rule 


and 


combine. Mash peas and strain 


before serving. 










CREAM CORN SOUP 


A 








1 can corn 






1 pt. boiling water 


Ji tsp. salt 








B 








2 tbsp. butter 






2 tbsp. flour 


1 pt. milk 






Onion juice 


yi tsp. sugar 






Speck pepper 


H tsp. salt 








C 








1 c. cream (whipped) 




1 c. popped corn 



Simmer A twenty minutes ; add to B, cooked as milk 
sauce ; garnish with C. 



16 TRIED AND TRUE 



CELERY AND TOMATO PUREE 

Cut one small bunch of celery into pieces, cover with three 
cups water, add one teaspoon of salt ; cook slowly one hour. 
Cut one ounce of pork, fry with half sliced onion, half small 
carrot, bay leaf, clove or thyme and parsley as desired. Add 
one cup of tomatoes, celery, one tablespoon of butter, one 
tablespoon flour and pepper. Serve with croutons. 

OYSTER BISQUE 

\yi c. cold water 3 pts. oysters 

Heat to boiling point; strain, using cheese cloth. Use 
oysters for salads or patties. Heat broth again, add one cup 
tomato sauce, one teaspoon salt, paprika, one teaspoon butter. 
Serve at once. Season the tomato sauce with carrots, celery 
and parsley. 

BISQUE OF CLAM BOUILLON 

J^ peck clams y% c. water 

1 tbsp. onion 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 1 c. rich milk 
Salt Pepper 

2 yolks Nutmeg 

Cook clams, add hot water to make one quart. Melt 
butter; add onion, flour, clam water, season ; add yolks and 
milk. 



50UP ACCOMPANIMENTS 



CROUTONS 

Garnish a soup with tiny cubes of toast. 

CRISPED CRACKERS 

Split small, round crackers and spread with butter, then 
brown delicately in a moderate oven. 



SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 17 

SOUFFLE CRACKERS 

Split round crackers and cover in a pan with cold water 
for six or eight minutes, then dot with butter, and place in a 
hot oven till browned. 

IMPERIAL STICKS 

Cut bread in one-third inch slices. Remove crusts, butter 
and cut in one-third inch strips. Brown delicately. 

CHEESe CRISPS 

Spread crackers with butter and grated cheese. Brown 
delicately. 



18 TRIED AND TRUE 



Fish 



" With hooks and nets you catch us, 
You never regard our pains ; 
Yet we reward you with dainty food, 
To strength ten your body and brains." 

Fish has less food value and flavor than meat in most cases 
and for this reason care is needed in its preparation to add sea- 
sonings and sauces to supply this lack. It is very easily 
digested and for reasons of economy, too, should be used more 
than it is in many households. The vphite fish, as cod, had- 
dock or halibut, are more easily digested than the oily kinds, 
as salmon or mackerel. 

To skin a fish, pull from the head, while if it is to be more 
thoroughly scraped, work from the tail towards the head, and 
if it is to be baked whole, always remove the eyes. 

Fish can be boiled, broiled, baked or fried. 

HALIBUT A LA FLAMANDE 

Purchase a small, very thick halibut steak. Wash it in 
cold water, dry, and dust with salt and pepper. Cover the 
bottom of baking dish with two tablespoons of chopped onion, 
two of chopped celery and one of chopped parsley, put on the 
halibut slice, brush with melted butter and bake in a quick 
oven for thirty minutes, add a little water. When done lift 
carefully to heated dish. Put two tablespoons of butter in a 
pan, add two tablespoons of flour, mix. add one-half pint of 
strained tomatoes, stir until boiling, add one level teaspoon of 
salt, shake of mace and of pepper. Strain this around the fish, 
garnish the top with carefully boiled potato balls, dust with 
finely chopped parsley and border with toast points. 



FISH 19 

BAKED FISH A LA CARLETON 

Split and bone a fish and place on well buttered sheet. 
Cream one-fourth cup of butter, two yolks, two tablespoons 
each chopped onions, pickles, and seasonings, lemon, salt, pep- 
per and parsley. Sprinkle fish with salt, spread on mixture 
and bake in hot oven. Garnish and serve. 

BAKED HADDOCK 

Clean a three or four pound haddock Sprinkle with salt, 
stuff and sew. Cut gashes, insert pork and lemon, and shape 
for baking. Salt, pepper, flour and brush with butter. Bake 
about one hour. Baste. 

STUFFING 

1 c. crumbs M tsp. salt 

Yi^ c. butter ^s tsp. pepper 

Lemon juice ^ c. hot water 
Onion juice 

HALIBUT CUTLETS 



Wz c. flaked fish M c. butter 

1 tsp. onion 1 tbsp. lemon 

Vz c. flour y^, tsp. salt 

\yi c. stock and milk 1 egg separately 

1 tbsp. parsley Spread and cool 

Shape and roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Garnish and serve at once. 

TURBANS OF HALIBUT 

1 ft halibut .1 tsp. butter 

1 tbsp. lemon juice Few drops onion 

Ji tsp. salt Speck of pepper 

Blend butter and seasonings. Remove skin and bone, 
dip and roll each fillet. Bake in agate plate with remainder of 
butter till tender, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Serve with 
soubise sauce. 



20 TRIED AND TRUE 



PLANKED FISH 

Bone and split a haddock or cod, leaving meat in two 
fillets. Place on plank with skin down and glaze with melted 
butter. Season and broil until slightly browned Reduce the 
heat to thoroughly cook. Serve with potato border, lemon 
and vegetable, and with beet garnish. 

HALIBUT AU LIT 

Halibut fillets Crumbs and &%g 

Cut halibut in fillets, roll half of them and fasten with 
skewers. Cook over boiling water. Serve with mock scallops. 

MOCK SCALLOPS 

Cut remaining fillets into pieces about the size and shape 
of scallops. Dip in crumbs, e.gg and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Serve also with &gg sauce. 

COD ROLL 

Skin and bone a small cod. Mix half cup bread crumbs, 
two tablespoons of melted butter, onion juice, parsley, two 
tablespoons of water, salt and pepper. Spread on the fillets, 
roll them up and fasten together. Bake. 

EPICUREAN FINNAN HADDIE 

Soak finnan haddie one hour in milk to cover. Bake thirty 
minutes and flake it; there should be two cups. Cook shallot 
or onion, pepper, one teaspoon salt, paprika, four tablespoons 
butter, four tablespoons flour, two cups milk. Add fish and 
serve on toast. 

MOULDED HALIBUT 

Chop one pound of uncooked fish. Cook one cup of bread 
crumbs, centre of loaf, with one cup milk, add fish, one tea- 
spoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper, one-half teaspoon 
onion juice, whites of two or three eggs. Bake it in pan of 
water forty or forty-five minutes. Serve with sauce, 



FISH 21 

BREADED SARDINES WITH RICED POTATO 

1 small can sardines 1 egg 

Bread crumbs 1 tbsp. butter 

Pour boiling water over sardines to remove the oil and 
then take off most of the skin. Roll in crumbs, G%g and 
crumbs. Fry slowly in hot omelet pan with one tablespoon of 
butter. Serve with riced or mashed potato. 

FRIED SMELTS 

Wash, dry, salt and sprinkle with flour; dip in Qgg and 
crumbs or meal. Fry and serve on hot platter. 

OYSTERS A L'ASTOR 

1 pt. oysters Vz tsp. onion 
Yi tsp. red pepper 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour Salt 

Pepper 1 tsp. lemon juice 

1 tsp. vinegar 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Water to make one cup with oyster liquor 

Parboil and drain oysters. Mix in given order and serve 
on crackers or toast. 

OYSTERS A LA TMORNDIKE 

Clean and drain one pint of oysters. Put three tablespoons 
of butter in saucepan, add oysters, cook till plump ; add one- 
half teaspoon of salt, one-eight teaspoon of paprika, grated 
nutmeg, one-quarter cup of rich milk, yolks of two eggs, 
beaten. Cook till creamy and serve on crackers. 

OYSTERS LOL!ISA^NE 

Parboil one pint of oysters. Cook one and one-half tea- 
spoon of butter, one tablespoon of red pepper, one-half table- 
spoon of onions, two tablespoons of flour, three-quarters to 
one cup of oyster liquor, salt, cayenne, and paprika for sauce. 
Arrange oysters on shells or dishes, border with duchess 
potatoes ; pour on sauce and sprinkle with grated cheese. 
Reheat and serve. 



22 TRIED AND TRUE 



PANNED OYSTERS 

1 pt. oysters Toast 
Salt Pepper 

In a dripping pan on each strip of toast place a seasoned 
oyster. Bake till plump. 

FRIED SCALLOPS 

Clean one pint of scollops, turn into saucepan, cook till 
they begin to shrivel, drain and dry between towels. Season, 
roll in crumbs, Qg% and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Serve with 
sauce tar tare. 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTER 

If the lobster is not dressed for broiling at the market, this 
is done by holding the large claws firmly with the left hand, 
and with a strong pointed knife make a deep cut at the mouth 
and draw the knife quickly but firmly through the body and 
length of the tail ; open and remove the stomach, the intestinal 
vein and the liver. Pull off the small claws and wash tho- 
roughly. Broil on buttered broiler eight or ten minutes on 
flesh side and a little less on the shell side, or bake in hot oven 
fifteen minutes. Baste with melted butter. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURQ 

2 lbs. lobster Grating nutmeg 
Pepper 2 eggs (yolks only) 
4 tbsp. butter Yi c. rich milk 

Yi tsp. salt 2 tbsp. brandy or sherry 

Heat lobster meat with butter, add seasonings and egg 
and milk last. Serve with toast or pastry cases. 



ME A TS 23 



Meats 



" True economy does not consist in going without, but in using wtiat 
one has in such a manner as to secure the most from it." 

Meat was considered necessary in some form at every 
meal in the days of our grandfathers, but now is used much 
less — only once a day in many families Beef, the meat of 
steer, ox or cow, is the most common; while lamb, the meat 
of lambs; or mutton, of sheep ; and pork, that of the pig, are 
all used. Veal, the meat of the calf, is not matured enough to 
be a proper food. 

Mutton and pork, if roasted, should be thoroughly cooked ; 
and beef and lamb are often served in a more rare state. A 
good rule for general use in roasting is to allow twenty minutes 
to heat the meat and twenty minutes for each pound as the 
time of cooking. Very rare beef might take less. When it is 
desired to retain all the juices possible, as in a roast, have the 
oven hot before the meat is put in ; and in boiling meats, use 
hot water when the juices are to be retained, and cold water if 
the stew or stock is needed and the juices extracted. In boiling 
ham, cold water is often recommended, and the meat is a 
better flavor if less salty 

Wipe meats with a damp cloth, but do not wash enough 
to draw out the juices. Salt will often cause the juices to flow 
freely, and, in steaks, should not be added till part of the 
cooking is completed, and this principle ought to be considered 
in the roast to a certain extent. 

Poultry is boiled, broiled or roasted, and must be always 
thoroughly dressed. The marketing hints in another chapter 
will give other suggestions. 



24 TRIED AND TRUE 



PLANKED STEAK 

Broil rump or sirloin steak in gas range broiler, and when 
about half cooked, place on hardwood plank with mashed 
potato border. Continue the cooking, and when potato is 
well browned, serve from the plank with peas, radishes, 
parsley, and French-fried potatoes (which have been fried in 
deep fat), or other vegetables. 

Sometimes all the broiling is done on the plank, and, if 
so, place raw slices of potato on stale bread on the border to 
preserve the plank until mashed potato is added. 

BEEF BALLS WITH SPAQHETTI EN CASSEROLE 

Put over the fire one-half can red tomatoes, an onion, cut 
in thin slices, two sprigs of parsley and pint of water; let cook 
half an hour, then pass through sieve into a casserole; add one 
teaspoon salt and two tablespoons of butter, and the beef balls 
prepared as follows: 

Chop very fine one pound of steak, freed from fat and 
stringy portions. To the chopped meat add one &%%^ beaten 
light, one-quarter cup bread crumbs and a grating of onion, 
one-half teaspoon of salt, paprika; mix altogether thoroughly, 
then divide the mixture into a dozen portions, and roll each 
into a compact ball. Have ready in a frying pan three table- 
spoons of hot fat, in this roll the beef balls until they are 
slightly browned on the outside, then drain on soft paper 
and put into the sauce in the casserole, cover the dish and let 
cook in the oven or on the back of the range about forty-five 
minutes. 

In the meantime cook one-quarter pound of spaghetti or 
macaroni, broken in pieces, in boihng salt water until tender, 
drain and rinse in cold water. When about ready to serve the 
dish, take out the meat balls, turn in the spaghetti and one- 
half cup of cheese, lift the spaghetti with a spoon and fork 
until it is thoroughly mixed with the sauce and cheese; return 
the beef balls, cover and let stand in the oven to become very 
hot, then serve in the casserole. 



MEATS 25 



SAHSUURY STEAK WITH ONION SAUCE 

One pound of tough meat twice through chopper, add one- 
half teaspoon salt and pepper. Form into steak one inch 
thick. Broil slowly. 

SAUCE 

One Spanish onion, boil till very soft, one-half cup water 
in which it was boiled, one tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon 
flour seasoning. Pour over steak and serve. 

SCALLOPED BEEF OR LAHB 

Chop meat, season, cover bottom of baking dish with 
crumbs, layers of meat, macaroni or rice, meat and crumbs. 
Pour over tomato sauce. Bake. 

BEEF RAGOUT 

Three pounds of round or flank. Cut in cubes, dredge 
with salt and flour saut^; then remove to kettle with close 
fitting cover. Brown four tablespoons butter, four tablespoons 
flour, add two cups stock, one-half cup carrots, one-half cup 
onions, and simmer one and one-half hours. Salt and pepper. 

BEEF OLIVES 

Strips of beef four inches long, one and one-half or two 
inches wide and rather thin, cut easiest from two-inch steak. 
Mix a stuffing of fine bread crumbs, seasoning, butter, one 
egg and parsley. Spread on beef, roll and tie with string. 
Stew in covered saucepan gently with one cup of brown sauce 
for thirty to forty-five minutes. Serve on bed of mashed 
potatoes, 

FILLET OF BEEF A LA NAPOLI 

Saute or boil either fillet of beef or a thick steak and when 
almost cooked remove from fire and spread on the meat one 
pint of cleaned oysters. Season with salt and pepper and 
return to heat till oysters are plump. Garnish and serve at 
once. 



26 TRIED AND TRUE 



CASSEROLE OF BEEP 

Melt a tablespoon of butter, add six onions cut in slices, 
fry till slightly brown, put in casserole. Sear one and one-half 
or two pounds of steak from the round and cut in serving- 
pieces, place in casserole also with salt, pepper and parsley, 
hot water to partly cover. L'ook slowly until nearly tender. 
Add one cup of sliced potatoes which have been parboiled. 
Thicken the gravy and season after all is hot. Often peas or 
carrots are added. 

BEEF CANNELON 

2 lbs. grounded beef 2 tsp. salt 

Pepper 1 tsp. parsley 

1 egg 2 tbsp. butter 

Nutmeg Onion juice 

Make compact roll. Bake and baste in oiled paper in 
moderate oven forty-five minutes Paper to be removed; serve 
with, sauce and garnish. 

HAHBURQ STEAK A LA TARTARE 

1 lb. ground steak 1 slice chopped onion 

1 tsp. salt Pepper 

Season steak and make into balls with a depression in 
centre and cook partly in hot frying pan ; then put an yolk in 
the centre of each and let them cook in hot oven. Serve with 
tomato or brown sauce if desired. 

SPICED BEEF 

Chop two pounds fresh beef, enough to fill four cups. Soak 
two slices bread, either toasted or plain in one and one-half 
cup of milk and add to the raw beef. Cut fine two slices fat 
salt pork and add to the beef, together with three even tea- 
spoons salt and three even teaspoons Bell's seasoning. Place 
in a buttered pan. Cut a piece of butter the size of an Q^g in 
small pieces and distribute over the top. Bake from one to 
one and one-half hours. 



ME A TS 27 



LAMB CUTLETS A LA MANQE 

Egg and crumb cutlets and mix grated cheese with the 
crumbs. Fry in butter and serve with rice border, if desired, 
and with tomato sauce. Can also be baked. 

FILLETS OF BEEF, VIENNA STYLE 

lyi lb. lean beef 1 tsp. parsley 

3 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. flour 

3 onions 2 eggs 

Salt, pepper, nutmeg 1 c. sauce (brown) 

Chop, season and shape meat. Saute onions and meat. 
Serve with onions and sauce. 

GRENADINES 

Cut a flank or round of steak into two-inch squares. Put 
in baking pan, dust with onion, parsley, celery, salt and 
pepper. Pour over it one pint strained tomato, blended with 
two tablespoons butter and two tablespoons flour. Bake in 
hot oven for thirty minutes. 

LAMB CHOPS A LA CATALANE 

Broil lamb chops which have been cut thick. When three- 
quarters cooked, remove from oven and coat ; then bake ten 
minutes and serve on bed of boiled rice with garnish of veget- 
ables. 

COATING 

% c. tomato sauce % c. chopped ham 

M c. bread crumbs Seasoning 

CHOPS EN PAPILLOTTE 

Finely chop whites of three hard-cooked eggs, force yolks 
through strainer, add three common crackers, rolled and sifted, 
three tablespoons melted butter, salt, pepper, onion juice and 
rich milk to make of spreading consistency. Cover chops 
(lamb or pork) thinly with mixture, wrap in buttered paper. 
Bake about twenty or thirty minutes in hot oven. Remove 
paper, serve at once. 



28 TRIED AND TRUE 



LAflB CHOPS AU FIQARO 

Season and saute chops, and serve with gravy and heated 
vegetables; tomato, beans and peas usually used. Garnish. 
Browned potatoes can be prepared at the same time. 

LAHB OR BEEF RECHAUFFE 

In a saucepan melt half tumbler of crab or currant jelly, 
add one cup of rich milk and salt and pepper to taste. Thicken 
with one-quarter teaspoon of arrowroot, diluted with cold milk. 
Add slices of cold roast meat, and serve as soon as meat is 
thoroughly heated. 

SAUTE FILLET OF LAMB 

Remove bone from two pounds of lamb from fore quarter. 
Cut in strips one inch thick. Marinade with three tablespoons 
oil, three tablespoons vinegar, two-thirds teaspoon salt, half 
onion, one tablespoon parsley. Saute in butter or broil. 

LAMB STEW 

3 lbs. flank 3 pts. cold water 

Yi c. rice }^ c. carrots, onions or turnips 

Cook two hours without vegetables. Gather the fat, 
reheat, add vegetables, two tablespoons flour, seasonings. 

DUMPLINGS 

2 c. flour ^2 tsp. salt 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 tsp. butter 
^ c. milk (more if needed) 

Cook ten to twelve minutes in the stew. Serve at once. 

riARYLAND CHICKEN 

Dress, clean and cut up a chicken. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in flour, egg and cruinbs, place in well-greased 
dripping pan and bake in hot oven, basting after five minutes 
with one-third cup melted butter. Serve from plank with 
potatoes, white sauce and mushrooms. 



ME A TS 29 



VEAL LOAF 

I 
1 knuckle veal 1 lb lean veal 

1 c. ham Lemon juice 

Nutmeg Salt 

Pepper Onion 

1 c. stock or more 

Cook, chop, season, mould, garnish and presf. 

II 
Ij^ lbs. finely chopped lean 34 lb. finely chopped fat salt 

veal pork 

3^ c. bread or cracker crumbs ^4 tbsp. salt 
% tbsp. lemon juice 1 heaping tsp. Bell's seasoning 

Pack in small bread pan, brush with slightly beaten white 
of egg, cover and bake in slow oven two and one-lialf hours. 
Baste three times with one tablespoon butter melted in one 
tablespoon hot water, and prick frequently. Remove loaf and 
pour off any fat. Chill, cut in thin slices, garnish with slices 
of hard-boiled egg and parsley. 

CRUMBED PORK CUTLETS 

Wipe, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, egg 
and crumbs. Arrange in baking pan and bake, basting three 
times. Serve with Soubise sauce. 

SALnON SURPRISE 

Mix a beaten egg with four cups mashed potato and add 
other seasonings. Line a bread pan with this and fill with a 
large can of salmon, to which has been added one tablespoon 
Bell's seasoning, cover with potato. Bake forty-five minutes. 
Brush over the top with egg to brown it, if necessary. 

BROILED LIVER 

Cover with boiling water slices of liver cut one-half inch 
thick, let stand five minutes, drain, wipe and remove the out- 
side skin and veins. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place in 
greased broiler ; broil five minutes. 



30 TRIED AND TRUE 



DELICIOUS PRESSED BEEF 

Take a six-pound cut shin beef, wash thoroughly, cut in 
small pieces, place in kettle, half cover with cold water and 
cook slowly for five hours. Remove fat, gristle and bone. 
Chop fine, add two even teaspoons of Bell's seasoning, heaping 
teaspoon salt, and enough of the liquor to moisten well. Place 
in deep dish with heavy weight on it and cool. An onion 
cooked with the meat will add to the flavor. 

BOBOTEE 

2 c. cold meat, chopped 3^ c. bread crumbs 

Celery, salt or curry powder L tsp. salt 
4 tbsp. water 2 eggs 

Cayenne 

Cutter dish, pour over one tablespoon lemon juice, add 
bobotee, bake thirty minutes. Add nuts if desired. 

CECILS 

2 c, cold chopped meat 1 tbsp. btitter 

2 yolks Nutmeg 

2 tbsp. crumbs I'epper 

Onion Salt 

Put all in frying pan, thoroughly heat, turn out to cool. 
When cold, form into balls, dip in ^gg and crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat. Serve with brown sauce, 

nunON BALLS WITH RICE BORDER 

Shoulder of mutton 2 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. onion Pepper 

1 pt. tomato Butter 
Parsley or bay leaf 

Chop mutton, having removed all the meat from the bone. 
Season. Form into balls twice the size of a walnut. Place in 
pan, pour on tomato (strained), add bits of butter. Bake 
thirty minutes. When done, dish the balls, add butter and 
salt, and make right consistency. Garnish if desired with rice 
(boiled) border. 



ME A TS 31 



BEEF STEAK A L'HENRIETTE 

Broil a thick rump or sirloin steak and serve with Henrietta 
sauce, toast points and parsley garnish. 

BROILED SWEETBREAPS 

Let the sweetbreads stand in cold water an hour, changing 
the water often. Then cover with boiling water and simmer 
half an hour, drain and let them again stand in cold water till 
ready to use. Cut in halves lengthwise, and place on a well 
oiled broiler and cook six or eight minutes, partly on each side. 
Serve at once with maitre d'hotel butter and garnish of peas 
and toast. 

nEAT SOUFFLE 

1 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. flour 

1 c. milk ^ c. stale bread crumbs 

Cook all three minutes. Add 

1 c. chopped meat (fowl is ^ tsp. Bell's seasoning 
good, 'lamb is also 3^ tsp. salt 
satisfactory) 2 eggs, beaten separately 

Bake in buttered dish for thirty minutes. Serve with milk 
sauce. 

TURKEY DRESSING 

I 
1 0. stale bread crumbs 1 c. cracker crumbs 

1 tbsp. Bell's seasoning 1 tsp. salt 

% tbsp. chopped onion yj, c. butter 

1 &gg 1 c. cut celery 

About one and one-third cup of milk, or partly water can 

be used. 

II 
Toast seven or eight slices of white bread. Place in a deep 
dish, adding three tablespoons butter. Cover with hot water 
or milk to melt butter and make bread right consistency. Add 
one even tablespoon of Bell's seasoning and one even teaspoon 
salt. When well mixed, stir in one or two raw eggs. For 
goose or duck, add one raw onion chopped fine. 



32 TRIED AND TRUE 



Meat and Fish 5auces 



" The wise woman will have many sidelights in her composition ; and in her 
kitchen, her sauces will have many shadings." 

Someone has said that if the cook can make perfect bread 
and a perfect sauce, all else will be satisfactory. Nothing is 
less tempting than a lumpy, poorly-seasoned sauce; and again 
many dishes, plain in themselves, will prove most appetizing 
with the " perfect sauce," one suited to that particular dish. 

The general sauce rule is two tablespoons of butter and 
two of flour with one cup of liquid. If a thin sauce is needed, 
use half that quantity butter and flour. Again, if a very thick 
sauce is desired, as for souffle or croquette mixture, the 
quantity should be doubled. 

Melt the butter and stir in the flour, then add gradually 
the liquid, heated, if a large amount, and time will be saved. 

FRENCH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

Vz c. butter Vz tsp. salt 

4 yolks Cayenne 

Vz c. boiling water }^ tbsp. lemon juice 

Work butter till creamy, add yolks slowly, season. Cook 
over water, and as it thickens, add water and stir till smooth. 

SOUBISE SAUCE 

2 small onions 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 1 c. milk 

Salt Pepper 

Cook onion and prepare puree. Follow sauce rule. 
Garnish and serve at once. 



MEA T AND FISH SA UCES 



33 



TOriATO SAUCE 



2 tbsp. flour 
1 tbsp. carrots 
1 tbsp. parsley 
Vi c. stock 



2 tbsp. butter 
1 tbsp. onion 
\i tsp. salt 
Vt, c. tomato liquor 



2 c. tomato juice 4 tbsp. butter 

4 tbsp. flour Speck pepper 

M tsp. salt 

Melt butter, add flour, tomato and seasoning, 
cook till thick and smooth. 



Stir and 



MILK SAUCE 

1 c. milk 2 tbsp. flour 

2 tbsp. butter % tsp salt 

Melt butter, blend with flour, add milk, stir till thick and 
smooth. 



2 tbsp. flour 
1 c. stock 
Seasonings 



KETCHUP SAUCE 

2 tbsp. butter 



2 tbsp. ketchup 



BROWN SAUCE 

1 tbsp. flour 

1 small onion 

1 sprig parsley 

1 small carrot 

^ tsp. pepper 

Brown butter, add flour, vegetables, water, simmer fifteen 
minutes, strain, season and serve. 

SPANISH SAUCE 

Brown sauce seasoned with clove, carrots, celery and 
lemoii. 



1 tbsp. butter 

1 c. water 

2 bay leaf 
J^ tsp. salt 

1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 



34 



TRIED AND TRUE 



SAUCE FIQARO 

Yt, c. butter 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 yolks Yi^ tsp. salt. 

Pepper 2 tbsp. tomato purde 

Garnish with toast and parsley. Heat over water. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

2 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. flour 

1 c. fish stock, or Vz c. fish stock and y% c. cream 

Mushrooms 

Garnish with radishes and parsley. 



3 tbsp. butter 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 

Parsley if desired 



LEHON BUTTER 

3^ tsp. salt 
Cayenne 



CREAM SAUCE 

2 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. flour 

1 c. cream Y\ ^^p. salt 

Pepper 

Garnish with pepper ribbons and parsley. 



1 c. milk 

2 tbsp. flour 
Pepper 
Ground parsley 



GOLDEN ROD SAUCE 

2 tbsp. butter 

Salt 

2 hard-cooked eggs 

HAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 



Js tsp. salt 

Yz tbsp. parsley 



34 c. butter 

Yi, tsp. pepper 

54 tbsp. lemon juice 

Cream the butter and add seasonings. Serve with meats 
and fish dishes. 



ME A TAND FISH SA UCES 35 

SAUCE TARTARE 

M tsp. mustard Ij^ tbsp. vinegar 

1 tsp. powdered sugar Vz tbsp. capers 

y^. tsp. salt y% tbsp. pickles 

Cayenne ^ tbsp. olives 

Yolks of 2 eggs Vz tbsp. parsley 
y% c. olive oil 

OR 

Chop fine six or eight olives, two tablespoons of capers, 
one slice mild onion, three or four parsley branches and four 
or five small gherkins and add to a scant cup of mayonaise 
■dressing. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE 

1^ c. white stock Slice carrot 

Bit bay leaf Sprig parsley 

■6 peppercorns 

Cook twenty minutes and strain. 

4 tbsp. butter 4 tbsp. flour 

1 c. milk Salt and pepper 

Combine by sauce rule. 

SAUCE ESPAGNOLE 

\y-2 c. brown stock ^ tsp. meat extract 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 

1 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. flour 

Salt Pepper 

HENRIETTE SAUCE 

Vz c. butter M tsp. salt 

3 yolks 2 tbsp. tomato pur^e 

1 tbsp cold water 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Vz tbsp. lemon juice Vz tbsp. parsley 

Pepper 

Wash butter, divide into three parts. Mix eggs, lemon, 
water and butter, one piece at a time, over hot water. Add 
tomato. Season, pour on steak and garnish. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



Vegetables 



"The census fells us that there is nothing that pays better for the country 
than the vegetable garden." 

Vegetablfes require careful preparation, and the idea that 
anyone can boil potatoes is often proven untrue, to our disgust. 

Sunamer vegetables ought to be used when as fresh as 
possible ; but if to be kept, place in a cool ice chest or cellar. 
Green corn will keep on the shady side of the house, spread on 
the grass till the next day. Lettuce will keep best if washed 
and packed in an air-tight tin pail or rolled in a wet cloth and 
then in a brown paper and placed in the ice-box. The same 
applies to celery and parsley. 

Winter vegetables must be kept in a dry, cold cellar, and 
while potatoes can be piled in bins, always spread the squashes 
out. 

Use great care in the washing and cleaning of vegetables 
and always take cold water for this, then cook thoroughly in 
boiling water, and in almost every case use a teaspoon of salt 
to each quart of water. 

As soon as canned goods are open, all should be removed 
from the can and given an hour in the open air to re-oxigenate 
before using, for the best results. 

A little soda will not change the flavor and will, in the 
green vegetables, help to keep the color, and often it is better 
to cook them uncovered for this same reason. 

TIME TABLE IN REFERENCE TO COOKINQ VHGETABLES 

Asparagus 30 minutes 

Beans, String 1^2 hours 

Beans, Shell 1^2 to 2 hours 

Beets 1 to IV'2 hours 



VEGETABLES 37 

« 



Cabbage 40 minutes 

Carrots. ... 1 hour 

Cauliflower 30 minutes 

Corn (after it boils) 8 to 10 minutes 

Onions 1 hour 

Peas 30 minutes 

Potatoes. 30 minutes 

Potatoes (baked) 50 to 60 minutes 

Spinach 30 minutes 

Tomatoes 20 minutes 

Turnips 45 to 60 minutes 

DUCHESS POTATOES 

1 pt. potatoes Y-z tsp. salt 

1 eg% Speck pepper 

13^ tbsp. butter 1 tsp. ground parsley 

Cut, measure, boil and mash the potatoes, add the yolk 
(beaten), salt, pepper and butter. Shape into cones, garnish 
with stiff white, brown and sprinkle on parsley. 

POTATO CHATEAU 

Pare and boil medium sized potatoes till almost cooked. 
Drain and roll in crumbs, &^g and crumbs, or brush with 
melted butter and place in hot oven to brown and reheat. 

HASHED WHITE POTATOES, THANKSQIVIINQ STYLE 

Cook the pared potatoes in boiling, salted water. For the 
quart of potatoes, season with one-half teaspoon of salt, two 
tablespoons of butter, one third cup milk, rice, one-half of 
mixture into dish, with pastry bag put on the rest and brush 
over with beaten yolk and two tablespoons of milk. Brown in 
hot oven. 

WALDORF POTATOES 

Pare, wash and cut round and round in curls as you would 
pare an apple. Fry in deep fat. Good for garnish for meat 
or fish dish. 



38 TRIED AND TRUE 

POTATOES A LA GOLDEN ROD 

1 c. potato cubes (cooked) 2 eggs (hard-cooked) 
1 c, milk sauce Parsley 

Cut whites, add with potato to sauce, garnish in hot serv- 
ing dish with yolks and pirsley. Add onion to the sauce. 

CREAHED POTATOES 

One cup of milk sauce, one and one-half or two cups cold 
potato dice, white or sweet potatoes. 

CHAriBERY POTATOES 

Prepare as for chips, dry, arrange in layers in buttered 
pan, season each layer. Cook in hot oven till soft and brown. 

JULIENNE POTATOES 

Cut in very thin strips and fry in deep fat. Salt and drain 
on brown paper. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Potatoes cut in quarters lengthwise. Each quarter cut in- 
to three or four pieces lengthwise again. Fry in deep fat. 

STUFFED TOnATOES 

Cut a slice from each tomato, remove the center, mix with 
crumbs and seasonings. Fill the tomato cases and bake about 
fifteen minutes. 

TOMATOES, VIRGINIA STYLE 

Ripe, medium sized tomatoes, prick several times with a 
fork and bake in a moderate oven, remove skins, arrange on 
individual dishes and pour over each cream sauce. Garnish- 

CROUTONS OF SPINACH AND EQQ 

Toast round of bread on one side. On untoasted side 
spread cooked and chopped spinach which has been seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter. Decorate the tops with yolks 
and whites of hard-cooked eggs. Lemon juice maybe added 
to the spinach if desired. 



VEGETABLES 39 



BAKED SQUASH 

Cut squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy portions, 
arrange in pan and bake. When almost soft, sprinkle with 
salt and grated cheese. Serve in shell. 

SQUASH SOUFFLE 

Steam, mash and season squash. Use two cups of squash, 
one cup of rich milk, two eggs beaten separately. Bake in 
slow oven till firm to the touch. 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

6 green peppers Salt 

Pepper Onion juice 

Bread crumbs Chopped meat 

Butter 

Cut a slice from stem end of each pepper, remove seeds. 
Parboil fifteen minutes. Fill with equal parts of chopped 
meat (veal or chicken especially good), and softened bread 
crumbs, season, bake ten minutes. Serve on toast with brown 
sauce if desired. 

FRIED CAULIFLOWER 

Clean and separate a cauliflower into flowerets, let cook 
five minutes, change water and cook till tender, drain, roll in 
crumbs, eggs and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

QLAZED CARROTS WITH PEAS 

Cut four carrots in one-fourth inch slices, parboil ten 
minutes. Place after drained in saucepan with one-third cup 
butter and one-third cup sugar and either chopped mint or 
parsley. Cook slowly until glazed and tender. Serve around 
seasoned peas if desired. 

STUFFED ONIONS 

Peal Spanish onions. Let cook one hour. Cool a little, 
cut out a piece two inches around the root end. Chop one cup 
of nut meats, mix with one cup crumbs, one-quarter cup of 
butter, one-half teaspoon salt, one egg, one teaspoon parsley, 
and fill the onions. Bake forty minutes, basting occasionally 
with one cup liquid from the pan. 



40 TRIED AND TEUE 



E^ggs 



" Faacy work in the kitchen pays better dividends than fancy work 
in the parlor." — Keen. 

A typical or perfect food is one that contains all the 
elements, in the right proportion, needed to nourish and sup- 
port the human body. Of these foods we find only two : milk 
and eggs. Because of their concentrated nutritive value, they 
are, at even a high price, an economical food product and one 
to be used to advantage in innumerable combinations. 

The albumen, or white of the Q%z^ is more digestible 
when cooked at a temperature below the boiling point, there- 
fore the hard-cooked Q%g rather than the hard-boiled &g% is 
recommended. 

OriELET 

1 e.gg % tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. milk Speck of pepper 

% tbsp. butter 

To beaten yolk add seasoning and milk. Cut into stiff 
whites. Cook in one-egg omelet pan till firm. Place in oven 
to set the top. Fold and serve at once. 

VARIATIONS 

White Mountain, Ham, Jelly, Cheese, Oyster, Tomato 
and Mushroom Omelets. Always increase the number of eggs 
and size of pan in proportion. 

BREAD OnELET 

3 eggs yl tsp. salt 

Pepper }>'3 c. bread crumbs 

1 tbsp. butter 3^ c. milk 

Mix and cook as foamy omelet. 



EGGS 41 





OHBLET SOUBISE 


iVz tbsp. butter 


1 finely chopped onion 


Cook together. 


Add 


2 tbsp. flour 


1 c. milk 


1 yolk 


1 white, stiffly beaten 



Make a French or foamy omelet and serve, covered with 
this sauce and sprinkled with cheese. 

PI^EAPPLE OMELET 



2 


tbsp. butter 


M c. sugar 


2 


tbsp. flour 


1 tsp. lemon juice 


34 


tsp. salt 


5 eggs 


1 


c. grated pineapple 





Add ingredients to beaten yolks. Combine with stiff 
whites. Cook and fold, serving at once with confectioner's 
sugar and pineapple garnish. 

FRUIT OMELET 

4 yolks 1 tbsp. sugar 

Grated rind of one lemon 4 stiff whites 

Cook as foamy omelet and when ready to fold, add a layer 
of crushed and sweetened fruit. Serve with caramel sauce. 

EQQS IN NEST 

1 &gg for each person Salt 

Pepper Parsley 

Beat the whites till stiff. Pile in buttered cup or timbale 
mould. In a hollow on the top place the unbeaten yolk and 
season. Place in a hot oven till the white is brown and the 
yolk is set. 

DEERFOOT SHIRRED EGGS 

Cut six sausages in half inch pieces and fry six or eight 
minutes. Add one cup of tomato sauce and one teaspoonfu]; 
of parsley. Place mixture in six small dishes ; crack one or 
two eggs into each and bake till set. 



42 TRIED AND TRUE 

PLANKED EGOS 

1 c. bread crumbs 1 c. chopped ham 

Moisten and season, spread on plank. Make border and 
nests of potatoes; in each nest, drop a buttered or poached 
^%Zi cover with crumbs. Brown all, brush over with butter 
or &%^ and garnish. 

SPANISH EQQS 

3 eggs }{ c. milk 

M tsp. salt 1 tsp. butter 

Ij pt. potatoes, cut in small pieces 

Cook and mash potatoes. Beat eggs, add milk and sea- 
sonings and scramble. Put on bed of potato on platter. 
Garnish with parsley. 

BAKED EQQS 

One e>gg allowed for each person. Seasonings, salt, 
pepper and butter. Carefully butter plates. Pile stiff whites 
on them. In hollows in the whites place the j'olks, unbeaten. 
Dust with salt and pepper. Bake till yolk is set and white is 
delicately browned. Garnish. 

QOLDEN ROD EQQS 

1 c. milk 2 tbsp. flour 

2 tbsp. butter 34 tsp. salt 

Speck pepper 2 hard-cooked eggs 

To cream sauce add the whites of eggs, cut in small 
pieces. Spread on toast, garnish with yolks pressed through 
a bowl sieve and serve with parsley. 

STUFFED EQQS 

Remove shells from hard-cooked eggs and cut either cross- 
wise or lengthwise. Remove yolks and mash with a silver 
fork, and add butter, salad dressing and seasonings. Stir till 
smooth and refill the whites. Serve cold for lunch or picnic, 
or with a hot cream sauce. 



EGGS 43 

SCOTCH EQQS 

1 c. cooked and chopped ham ^ c. milk 
3^ tsp. mustard 1 egg 

J^ c. stale bread crumbs 6 hard-cooked eggs 

Cook all except eggs till smooth, and remove shells from 
eggs and cover with the mixture when a little cool. Fry in 
deep fat as croquettes. Serve cold or hot for luncheon dish 
or picnic dish. 

SCRAMBLED EQQS WITH ASPARAGUS 

5 eggs M tsp. salt 

^ c. milk yh tsp. pepper 

2 tbsp. butter 

Scramble the eggs. Add half cup asparagus previously 
heated and cut in short pieces. Serve in Swedish cases. 

CREAHED EQQS 

2 eggs Yi c. milk 

lyi tbsp. butter Ij/s tbsp. flour 

% tsp. salt Speck pepper 

Make a cream sauce of all ingredients except the eggs. 
Add beaten yolks to the sauce. Cook in double boiler till 
smooth and thick ; add stiff whites. Cook till creamy. Serve 
on toast or crackers if desired. 



44 TR/ED AND TRUE 



Lntrees 



" It is not so much the rate of speed in movement as the ability 
to make each motion tell." 

The Entr6e is served as a side dish at a dinner or between 
the regular courses. Many housekeepers think an entree takes 
expensive material and a good deal of time for the food value 
to be received in return. If, as in all our work, we cultivate 
the ability to make each motion tell, we will find a store- 
house in the entree dishes — not only practical for the course 
dinner, but luncheon and supper suggestions innumerable. 

Meat, fish, eggs, vegetables and fruit form the foundation 
of many of the recipes; and these are one of the secrets of the 
French cook in the dainty use of the so-called " left-over." 

CHICKEN TinBALES 

^ c. chicken stock or water 2 c. bread crumbs 

Cook four or five minutes. 
1 pt. cold, cooked and 2 eggs 

chopped chicken Pepper 

yi tsp. salt 

Cook in timbale cups in pan of hot water about twenty 
minutes or till firm 

EQQ TIMBALES 

4 eggs 1 c. milk 

3^ tsp. salt %. tsp. pepper 

Onion juice Tomato or mushroom sauce 

Beat eggs; add milk and seasonings. Strain into small 
moulds and bake in pan of hot water till firm. Turn out and 
serve with sauce. 



ENTREES 45 



TinBALES OF PEAS Cf^^f/ ^V^ 

1 can peas 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour Milk to make one pint 
2 eggs y!i tsp. salt 

Speck of pepper Onion juice 

Vz tsp. sugar if desired 

Rub peas through strainer; add beaten eggs (yolks) and 
milk enough to make one pint. Blend butter and flour; add 
all seasonings and beaten whites. Bake in buttered moulds in 
/pan of hot water till firmJ Serve with a sauce. • y^iyi/t^ 

^ CORN TiriBALES ^ 

1 c. corn, as dry as possible 2 eggs 
Onion juice 2 tbsp. butter 

M c. milk Salt and pepper 

Melt butter and eggs, beateii separately and combine all. 
Bake in small cups ; set in a pan of hot water. 

SALMON TinSALES 

Vz c. soft bread crumbs Cayenne 

Y% c. milk 1 c. salmon 

Yi tsp. salt Whites of 3 or 4 eggs 

Soak crumbs fifteen minutes, cook to paste over water, 
season; add eggs, mould, cover and bake. 

CODFISH PUFF 

3^ c. codfish, solidly packed 1 c. potato cubes 

Cook both in water till the potatoes are soft. Drain, mash, 
add one tablespoon butter, dash pepper, two eggs, added 
separately. Cook as omelet using pork in. omelet pan. 

RINQ TIMBALES 

Twelve sticks macaroni. Creamed fish, meat or cheese 
dish. Cook macaroni. Cut and place rings on buttered tin 
and chill. Fill with mixture, cover with rings and bake about 
twenty minutes. Serve with sauce if desired. 



46 TRIED AND TRUE 



inPERIAL TiriBALES 

1 c. cooked fish 1 tsp. salt 
3 yolks Cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. flour 1 tsp. parsley 
% c. milk 3 egg whites 

Mix by sauce rule. Boil with fish two minutes. Cool a 
little, add eggs. Bake ; serve with sauce. 

WASHINQTON FRITTERS 

1 c. flour 14; tsp. salt 
VM tsp. baking powder yi c. milk 

3 tbsp. confectioner's sugar 1 e.%g 

Mix batter; add maraschino cherries. Fry in deep fat; 
serve with maraschino sauce. 

SAUCE 

Yi c. boiling water M c. cherries 

Yi c. sugar Yz c. maraschino syrup 

2 tbsp. cornstarch 3^ tbsp. butter 

Boil sugar, cornstarch and water for five minutes. Add 
other ingredients 

SALMON CROQUETTES 

1 can salmon (small) Crumbs 

3 c. mashed potatoes 1 tsp. parsley 
% tsp. pepper 1 tbsp. butter 
Yi tsp. salt 1 egg (or yolk) 

Season, shape, roll in crumbs, &g%^ and crumbs. Fry in 
deep fat. 

riEAT CROQUETTES 

1% c. chopped meat Onion juice 

Parsley Vz tsp. salt 

Cayenne ^i to 1 cup thick sauce. 

Mix, cool, shape, crumb and fry. 



ENTREES 47 

FISH CROQUETTES 

1 c. codfish 2 c. potatoes 

1 tbsp. butter 1 egg (or yolk) 

1 tsp. parsley 34 tsp. pepper 
Crumbs 

Boil fish and potato till the potato is soft. Drain, mash, 
season and beat it. Shape, roll in crumbs and &%% and crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

1 c. flour IJi tsp. baking powder 
3 tbsp. confectioner's sugar 34 tsp. salt 

yi c. milk 1 &%% 

2 apples 

Mix, fry, drain, sprinkle with sugar. 

PEACH FRITTERS 

1 c. flour 1 tsp. baking powder 

Yi c. milk 34 tsp. salt 

1 %^g 4 peaches 

1 tsp. sugar 

Mix the batter, add the peach; fry in deep fat. Thicken 
the syrup for a sauce. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS 

Half cup of milk, scald, add two tablespoons sugar, yeast 
cake, three-quarters cup of flour. Cover and let rise. Add 
two tablespoons butter, one-eight teaspoon salt, one egg and 
flour to knead. Again let rise. Roll to quarter inch thickness, 
shape with pineapple, fry and serve with powdered sugar and 
pineapple syrup, thickened with arrowroot. 

CHESTNUTS EN CASSEROLE 

Shell three cups of French chestnuts, put in casserole with 
three cups of highly seasoned stock or sauce, cover and cook 
slowly three hours. Thicken stock if necessary. 



48 TRIED AND TRUE 



OYSTER AND SHRIMP NEWBURQH 

1 pt. oysters 1 can shrimps 

M c. butter l>i tbsp. flour 

1 c. rich milk 2 yolks 

Salt Paprika 

Cayenne Parsley 

Serve from chafing dish in pattie shells. 

CROUSTADES 

Slices of bread one and one-half or two inches thick, 
shape, scoop out centers, brush over with butter, brown in 
oven. Fill with shrimp wiggle. 

SHRinP WIQQLE 

1 c. milk sauce Small can shrimp 

Parsley or peas for garnish 

Cut shrimp, add to sauce ; serve on crackers. 

VARIATIONS 

Cream toast, cracker toast, creamed potatoes, oysters, 
salmon, codfish or chicken. 

FILLETS IN RAMEKINS 

1 c. soubise sauce }i c. grated cheese 

Salt Pepper 

Stiff white Lemon juice 
Fillets of fish 

Prepare and season sauce, put in ramekin dishes with fillet 
in each. Cover with crumbs if desired and bake. Serve from 
dishes. 

FISH TURBANS IN BATTER 

Season fillets with onion, lemon, salt, pepper, and let stand 
one hour. Add hard-cooked yolks rubbed through sieve, two 
tablespoons of cheese and roll each fillet. Fasten, dip in batter 
and fry five or six minutes in deep fat. Serve with mashed 
potatoes and with egg sauce. 



ENTREES 49 



CODFISH SOUFFLE 

1 c. shredded codfish 1y% c. potatoes in small pieces 

Cook till tender then mash. 
3 tbsp. melted butter Onion 

Parsley 4 tbsp flour 

Vz c. water yi c. milk 

Salt Pepper 

1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Combine all and bake until firm to the touch. 

FILLET A LA SOUFFLE 

8 fillets of fish 1 small carrot 

1 bay leaf Wi oz. butter 

1 c. milk 2 oz. grated cheese 
}>i c. flour 3 eggs 

Salt Pepper 

Cook bones in milk with carrot and bay leaf. Roll fillets, 
season, moisten with water and place in oven ten minutes. 
Strain milk, add butter and flour, cheese, then yolks and lastly 
whites of eggs. Butter baking dish, put in some of mixture, 
then the fish, and more souffle mixture. Bake fifteen minutes. 

POTATO PUFF 

2 c. mashed potatoes Vz c. milk 

2 yolks 2 tbsp. butter 

Salt Pepper 

2 whites 

'Beat well, pile on baking dish. Bake till puff and brown. 

DELnONlCO POTATOES 

1 pt. boiled potatoes in cubes 3^ c. grated cheese 
lYz tbsp butter. 2^^ tbsp. flour 

Crumbs Seasonings 

134 c. milk 

Arrange creamed potatoes and cheese in layers, cover with 
crumbs and bake. 



50 TRIED AND TRUE 



TIMBALE CASES 



% c. flour y% tsp. salt 

1 tsp. sugar M.c. milk 

1 Q^^ 1 tbsp. butter 

Mix, dip in iron and fry in deep fat. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR FILLING 

Creamed meats, fish, oysters, mushrooms, frizzled beef, 
eggs, peas, asparagus, or cauliflower. ^ 

SWEET FILLINGS 

Strawberries, raspberries, peaches or oranges with sugar ; 
jelly in cubes with whipped cream. 

PRESSED BEANS AND SAUSAGE 

1 pt. beans y% ft sausages 

Soak, parboil and bake the beans with ordinary seasoning. 
Mould with the cooked, chopped sausages and press under 
weight. Turn out and slice, serving with beets, celery or 
tomatoes. 

SHEPHERD'S PIE 

1 c. chopped meat 2 c. mashed potatoes 

Seasonings White of 1 &g^ 

Warm the meat in a French pan with seasonings and 
water enough to moisten. Place in baking dish and cover with 
the potatoes. Brush on the beaten white, and brown in a hot 
oven. 

RAHEKINS A LA STUYVESANT 

1 c. cooked halibut 3 tbsp. butter 

4 tbsp. flour 1 c. milk 

3 yolks 3 whites 

Salt Pepper 

Follow sauce rule. Bake till firm. Serve with white 
sauce. 



ENTREES 51 

RECHAUFFE OF SALHON 

1 c. drawn butter sauce 1 tbsp. capers or pickles 

1 egg 1 c. cold salmon or 1 can 

1 c. spaghetti or macaroni salmon 

Combine all and serve on toast. 

CREAHED MACARONI AU QRATIN 

Break one cup macaroni and cook in boiling water, put 
into baking dish with one-half cup milk sauce and sprinkle 
with grated cheese and cover with cracker crumbs, seasoned 
and buttered some. Brown in oven. 

TOMATO CREAn TOAST 

■3 tbsp. butter 4 tbsp flour 

yi, tsp. salt IH c. tomato liquor and water 

34 tsp. soda Vz c. milk 

Toast or crackers 

CREAMED HAM AND EQQS 

% c. milk Slice onion 

ly^ tbsp butter \}>i tbsp. flour 

Celery seasoning % c. chopped ham 

Spread on toast circles, buttered, and finish by placing 
poached or scrambled eggs above the mixture. 

SOUFFLE OF COI.D MEAT 

4 tbsp. butter 4 tbsp. flour 

'2 c. milk 34 tsp. salt 

% tsp. pepper Grated nutmeg 

'2 c. chopped ham or lamb 3 eggs 

Bake till firm and brown. Serve with sauce if desired. 

DELHONICO HACARONI 

Boil macaroni in salted water, arrange layers of macaroni, 
-creamed potatoes and cheese in buttered baking dish. Use for 
the top a layer of seasoned cracker crumbs and bake in a hot 



52 TRIED AND TRUE 



CREAriED CHICKEN IN CROUSTADES 

2 tbsp. flour 2 tbsp. butter 

1 c. milk 1 c. chicken 

Seasoning 

Cut six oval croustades of bread and brush, with melted 
butter and brown. Fill with asparagus and creamed chicken. 

PARCHED RICE 

% c. rice 2 qt. boiling water 

1 tbsp. salt 2 tbsp. butter 

Boil rice, drain and cool it, than saut6 it, stirring with a 
fork. Serve with one-half cup of grated cheese and tomato 
sauce. 

CHEESe RAMEKIN 

1 c. bread crumbs Yz c. milk 

4 tbsp. grated cheese y% tbsp. butter 

Speck of pepper Y-z tsp. salt 

2 eggs 

Cook crumbs and milk till smooth, add yolks and other in- 
gredients, lastly stiff whites. Bake in pudding dish or individ- 
ual ramekins for fifteen to twenty minutes. 

KIDQEREE 

% c. cooked salmon 2 c. cooked rice 

2 eggs Vi c. uncooked rice 
Vi pepper y^ tsp. salt 

3 tbsp, butter Chopped parsley 

Put the butter in a saucepan, add the rice, fish and then 
eggs, beaten separately and serve with a milk sauce. 

HAH MOUSSE 

1 pt. chopped ham 1 c. stock or thin brown sauce 

1 tbsp. Knox gelatine 3 stiff whites 

Season as needed. Ptit in mould and chill. Serve with 
salad dressing and garnish. 



ENTREES 63 

MACARONI RAREBIT 

3^ lb. cheese 1 tbsp. butter 

1 egg or 2. small ones 1 tsp. mustard 

1 tsp salt Pepper 

Vz c. milk 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 

1 c. cooked macaroni 

Cook over water. Serve on crackers or toast. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

Vz lb. cheese 2 eggs 

1 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. mustard Jg tsp. pepper 
yz c. milk 

Melt cheese and butter in a double boiler, mix salt, pepper 
and mustard, add to beaten Qg% and milk, stir this into the 
cheese gradually. When smooth and thick, serve on crackers 
or toast. 

ASPIC JELLY 

2 tbsp. carrots 2 tsp. onion 

2 sprigs parsley 2 cloves 

1 bay leaf Juice 1 lemon 

1 box Knox gelatine 5 c. stock 

3 whites (eggs) Seasonings 

Put vegetable in saucepan and one cup of stock. Cook 
five to ten minutes, strain. Add gelatine, lemon, seasonings 
and stock. Beat eggs slightly, dilute with one cup of hot 
mixture. Add slowly to rest, stir till boiling point is reached. 
Place on back of range for thirty minutes. Strain. 

This jelly can be used as the foundation for many jelly 
salads, for moulded meats or fish in which the cooked meat or 
fish is added to the jelly as it hardens — a layer of jelly, then of 
meat, thinly sliced or in large quantity. It is attractive on 
the table, taken from the mould in perfect shape and sliced, 
cutting through the jelly and the meat or fish, as the case may 
be. 



54 TRIED AND TRUE 



BEAN RAREBIT 

3^ c. bean piir^e (baked beans) 

y^ c. milk 1 tbsp. butter 

% c. cheese (not solidly packed) 

1 or 2 eggs Vi, tsp. salt 

Add pepper and tomato catsup to season if desired. Serve 
on toast. 

CHEESE TOAST WITH BACON 

Brown bread toast, on which serve following: 

3 tbsp. butter XVz tbsp. flour 

Salt Pepper 

1 c. milk yi c. cheese 

Garnish with strips of bacon. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

3 tbsp. butter 3 tbsp. flour 

Yz c. milk y% tsp salt 

Pepper Yz c. cheese 

3 yolks 3 whites 

Follow sauce rule and bake twenty minutes. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Toast to a crisp two slices of white bread. Break in pieces, 
and place in a deep dish. Add three-fourths cup of cracker 
crumbs, one-half cup melted butter, one and one-half teaspoon 
salt, one even teaspoon Bell's seasoning, half cup hot water and 
mix thoroughly. Place in bottom of shallow buttered baking 
dish a thin layer of bread crumbs, then a layer consisting of 
one- half pint of oysters, two tablespoons oyster liquor, and 
two tablespoons milk or cream. Cover with the dressing com- 
pounded as above. Add another half pint of oysters, two 
tablespoons oyster liquor, three tablespoons cream or milk, 
evenly distributed. Sprinkle with browned buttered cracker 
crumbs. Bake thirty minutes. 



SALADS 56 



5alads 



" To make it one must have a spark of genius." 

The dainty appearance of the salad together with its re- 
freshing and stimulating qualities has made it popular regard- 
less of the fact that it contains little nutritive value in many- 
instances. 

Meat, fish, vegetables or fruits are used with a green and 
a dressing. Lettuce, watercress, romaine, endive and chicory 
are now used and are obtainable at all seasons in the large 
markets. 

riAYONNAISE DRESSING 

1 tsp. mustard 2 tsp. sugar 
% tsp. salt Cayenne 

2 yolks 1 c. oil 

2 tbsp. vinegar 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Mix first four ingredients, add yolks, add oil till half used, 
then alternate with last two ingredients. 

CREAn DRESSING 

1 tsp. mustard Cayenne 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. butter 

2 tsp. flour Yolk of 1 egg 
lYz tsp. confectioner's sugar Yz c. hot vinegar 
J^ c. thick cream 

Mix dry ingredients, add butter, egg and vinegar. Cook 
over water, cool, add cream. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

4 tbsp. olive oil 2 tbsp. vinegar 

34 tsp. pepper Yz tsp. salt 

Blend carefully. 



56 TRIED AND TRUE 



ITALIAN SALAD 

1 c. cold roast veal 1 c. boil potato cubes 

34 c beet cubes 1 lemon 

Lettuce and garnish 

Mix salad, serve with mayonnaise. 

SUGGESTIONS. FOR GARNISH 

Cold sausages, olives, lemon or capers. 

BERKSHIRE SALAD 

Make salad baskets of cheese crackers tied with crimson 
ribbon and in each place a pimento and cold boiled potato cubes 
and season with French dressing. Onion juice can be added. 

JELLIED TOriATO SALAD 

yi box Knox Gelatine 34 c. cold water 

J4 c. hot stock 1 c. tomato liquor 

Lettuce Seasonings 

Garnish, mould, serve on lettuce with dressing. 

GERMAN TOMATO SALAD 

Peel and chill six tomatoes. Cut in eighths, not severing 
sections, open like petals of a flower on lettuce leaf. In 
center place one teaspoon of onion (peach is good). Serve 
with French dressing to which has been added chopped parsley. 

SARDINE SALAD 

1 can sardines 4 hard -cooked eggs 

Greens Dressing 

Radishes Pickles or peppers 

Mix, garnish and arrange in salad bowl. 

THORNDIKE SALAD 

Canned peaches Cherries 

Chopped nuts French dressing 

Lettuce 



SALADS 57 



RUSSIAN SALAD 

Ji c. green peas 2 c. cauliflower 

3 potatoes 2 tomatoes 
yi c. mixed vegetables(carrot, Mayonaise 

turnip and beans) Lettuce 

2 pickles Aspic jelly 

HUNGARIAN SALAD 

Shredded pineapple Bananas 

Tangarines French dressing 

Salad bed 

LUNCHEON SALAD 

1 c. fowl 1 c. celery 

1 c French chestnuts M red pepper 

Lettuce 

POTATO SALAD IN CASES 

Spanish sweet peppers Celery 

Potato cubes Pepper trimmings 

Parsley dressing 

EQQ SALAD 

Arrange hard-cooked eggs mixed with cream dressing on 
lettuce leaves or other salad green. May cut eggs, grate yolks, 
or make a la Pond-lily. Garnish. 

BANANA AND NUT SALAD 

4 bananas " ^ c. walnut meats (chopped) 
Lettuce bed Garnish 

CHICKEN JELLY SALAD 

3 pt. stock Whites of 2 eggs 
1 box Knox gelatine Chicken 
Garnishes 

Season stock, clear, mould with chicken, garnish. Serve 
with mayonnaise if desired. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

1 grape fruit X c. nuts 

Lettuce or greens Fruit cups 



Mayonnaise 



CHIFFONADE SALAD 



Equal parts of celery, grape fruit, nuts, and serve on let- 
tuce leaves with French dressing. Red pepper cases or cracker 
cases are appropriate and some orange is an addition. 

CROUTON SALAD 

Toast rounds of bread , place on each a lettuce leaf and ar- 
range an individual salad; chestnut, grape or oyster suggested. 

GERMAN APPLE CUPS 

Core and pare apples, leaving a section of skin near one 
end. Mix celery, mayonnaise and nuts if desired to fill cavities. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. Rub over with lemon if not served at 
at once to prevent discoloration. 

KNICKERBOCKER SALAD 

Pineapple, bananas, and cherries in combination with a 
green bed and mayonnaise dressing. 



BREADS 59 



Breads 



" Back of the loaf is ihe snowy flour, 
And back of the flour, the mill; 
And back of the mill is the wheat and the shower. 
And the sun and the Father's will." 

— Babcock. 

In all cookery there is nothing containing more simple in- 
gredients and at the same time nothing in which there is more 
complicated chemical changes than bread, " the staff of life." 
Yeast is a form of plant life, the most simple, and yet it must 
be given soil, moisture, heat and time, and it will then grow. 
Bread flour (the spring wheat) gives best results with yeast, and 
the pastry flour (or winter wheat) should be used, generally 
speaking, when yeast is not called for in the recipe. Milk or 
water can be used for the moistufe and equal parts give satis- 
faction. A milk bread is a little richer, but will dry sooner 
than a water bread and it is also a little slower to rise. Salt 
and sugar as well as some fat or shortening are always added. 
It must be remembered the yeast will be killed at 212 deg. 
Fahr., and all liquids ought to be only lukewarm, thus purified 
and still in good condition to receive the yeast and help the 
action of the yeast plant. Mix all the dry ingredients and add 
the liquids, or reverse the order, and to the liquids add the dry 
ingredients with equally good results. Bread should be 
thoroughly mixed at first to distribute the yeast throughout 
the dough, and after it has doubled its bulk, a careful kneading 
is recommended to evenly distribute the carbon dioxide and 
break the bubbles. Always cover the dough to avoid hav- 
ing a crust form and also avoid drafts, but keep it in an even 
temperature, about 75 deg. Fahr. For a batter, one should use 
equal parts of flour and liquid ; for a muffin mixture, allow two 



60 TRIED AND TRUE 



parts of flour to one of liquid; for a bread dough, it is three 
parts of flour to one of liquid, while a stiff donoh, for example, 
cookies or doughnuts, takes four parts of flour to one of the 
liquid. After the kneading and shaping, the dough must a 
second time be given opportunity to double its bulk and then 
be baked. 

Often a sponge is mide, especially ia recipes for the fancy 
breads it is called for and then part of the flour is added, and 
after the "sponge" has had a chance to rise, the rest is added 
and in this way a third opportunity is given the dough to rise 
and a fine grain bread results. 

Bread in itself is not a "perfect" or typical food, as it lacks 
the fats, and thence the use of butter in serving, and bread and 
butter is almost a '-perfect" food. 

WHITE WHEAT BREAD 

Put two tablespoons of lard or butter, two tablespoons of 
sugar and two teaspoons of salt into a bowl, and pour over 
one cup of scalded milk and one cup of boiling water. When 
lukewarm add one-fourth yeast cake dissolved in one fourth 
cup lukewarm water and four cups flour. Mix thoroughly and 
add two cups of flour, knead until smooth. Let rise until mix- 
ture has doubled its bulk, knead again, shape into loaves, let 
rise in pans and bake about forty-five minutes in moderate 
oven. 

HOT CROSS BUNS 

Scald one cup milk, when lukewarm add one tablespoon 
of sugar and one yeast cake broken in pieces. Let stand 
twenty minutes, then add one cup of flour and two-thirds tea- 
spoon of salt, cover and let rise. Cream one-fourth cup butter 
mixed with one tablespoon of lard, add one-fourth cup of sugar 
and the grated rind of half a lemon. Stir this mixture into 
sponge and add sufficient flour to make a stiff batter; again let 
rise, then add one half cup of raisins or currants, and flour to 
make a soft dough. Let rise, shape, rise again, brush over 
with egg, bake. Frosting for a cross on each. 



BREADS 61 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

2 c. scalded Tnilk 1 tsp. salt 

34 c. sugar Yi c. molasses 

^2 yeast cake M c. lukewarm water 

4^ or 5 c. entire wheat flour White flour to make dough 

Make as white bread. • 

RYE BREAD 

1 c. railk 1 c. water 

13>2 tsp. salt 1 tbsp. lard 

1 tbsp. butter 3 c. white flour 
y-:, c. brown sugar V-z. j^east cake 

M c. lukewarm water Rye flour 

Miike as other breads. 

/ COFFEE CAKES 

2 c. milk 1^2 yeast cake 
31^ c. flour 

.Mix and let rise for one and one-half hours. Add 

3^2 c. butter V^ c. lard 

y% c. sugar 1 egg (unheated) 

1 tsp. salt y% tsp. cinnamon 
Flour to knead 

Let rise six hours. Keep in ice box to chill. Roll, fold, 
cut, shape, let rise and bake. 

KAISER SEMHELN 

1 yeast cake '% c. water 

y^ c flour 

Knead, cut and place in two cups of lukcv arm water, let 
rise till a sponge. One teaspoon salt, six or seven cups flour, 
add and knead, let it double its hulk. Divide into twelve or 
fourteen pieces, shape into balls, cut and brush over with but- 
ter. Bake twenty minutes, 'brush over with beaten white, 
finish baking. 



62 TRIED AND TRUE 



BROWN BREAD 

1 c. flour 1 c. Indian meal" 

1 c graham 1 c. molasses 

13^ c water 134 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. salt % c. raisins 

Mix thoroughly, steam three and one-half or four hours, or 
bake two hours. 

GERMAN ROLLS 

1 pt. scalded milk Vi c. sugar 

1 yeast cake 1 tsp. salt 

y% c. lukewarm water Flour to knead 

3 eggs 3 tbsp. sugar 

y% c. butter 2 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 c. currants 

Make a sponge and, when light, add remaining ingre- 
dients except cinnamon and fruit. Roll out when ready for 
shaping, add fruit, roll and cut. Let rise and bake. 

HOLLAND BRIOCHE 

Make a sponge of one cup of scalded milU, one-lhiid cup 
sugar, one and one-half cup flour and one-third yeast cake. 
When full of bubbles, add two eggs, one-third cup melted 
butter, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt, grated rind, one-half 
lemon, and one and one-half cups of flour. Mix thoroughly 
and let ri'-'e until mixture has doubled its bulk Cut down, 
half fill buttered muffin tins, let rise in pans, and bake tweniy- 
five minutes in moderate oven. 

NUT BREAD 

Yt, c. milk % c \\ attr 

3i yeast cake dissolved }i tbsp, butter 

1 c. nut meats ( walnuts 2 tbsp. molasses 

and pecans) H c. white flour 

2 tsp. salt Entire wheat flour to stiffen 

Mix in white bread order, add nuts, rise and bake as white 
bread. 



BREADS 63 

SWEDISH BREAD 



2^ c. scalded milk 


Yz c. sugar 


1 yeast cake 


1 egg 


6^ c. flour 


Vi tsp. salt 


Vz c. melted butter 


Vanilla 



Mix half cup of milk, yeast and half cup of flour. When 
light, add two cups of milk and four and one-half cups of flour. 
Let it rise, add the remaining ingredients, knead ; let it rise. 
Shape as braided loaf. 

BRIOCHE PASTE 

1 c. milk 2 yeast cakes 

Yi c. butter > - 3 whole eggs 

3 yolks trujl (t'*uU4^ y^ c. sugar 

Y-i tsp. lemon extract 4^ c. flour 

Scald milk; beat thoroughly, let rise; keep in ice-box over 
night. In morning, shape, let rise and bake. 

SUGGESTIVE USES 

Brioche, sultana rolls, tea rings, braided loaf. 

ENTIRE WHEAT GEMS 

1 c. entire wheat 1 c. flour 

J^ tsp. salt 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 e.%g 

lii c. milk 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. molasses instead of sugar if desired 

Bake twenty -five or thirty minutes. 





POP=OVERS 


1 c. flour 


a tsp. salt 


1 c. milk 


1 ^gg 



To beaten egg and milk, add flour; thoroughly mix, using 
egg beater. Put into hot, buttered pans. Bake in moderate 
oven thirty or forty-five minutes. 



64 TRIED AND TRUE 



GLAZED CURRANT BUNS 

1 yeast cake y% c. scalded milk 

Dissolve 
1 pt. scalded milk 3 c. flour 

Add and let rise 
Vz c. sugar V-i. c. butter 

1 tsp. salt 3 eggs 

1 c. currants About 3 cups flour 

Add above, knead and let rise. Roll out, cut into rounds, 
set a little distance apart, let rise and bake. Brush over when 
almost baked with one cup boiling water and one teaspoon 
cornstarch, sprinkle with sugar. Repeat to thoroughly glaze. 

FRENCH ROLLS 

1 c. milk 2 tbsp. sugar 

1 yeast cake %. c. lukewarm water 

1 &^^ 1 yolk 

Flour 4 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt 

Scald milk, add yeast and one and one-half cup of flour. 
Let rise ; add other ingredients and more flour. Knead, let 
rise and follow rules for shaping. 

QRAHAM POP=OVERS 

y-i c. graham flour 1^ c. white flour 

y% tsp. salt 2 c. milk 

2 eggs 

Makes twenty pop-overs. 

TWIN MOUNTAIN MUFFINS 

Vi c. butter M c. sugar 

1 egg M c. milk 

2 c. flour 3 tsp. baking powder 

Cream butter, add sugar, egg, milk and dry ingredients. 
Bake in buttered tins twenty-five or thirty minutes. 



BREA-DS 65 

BERKSHIRE MUFFINS 

Vz c. corn meal Yz tsp. salt 

^ c. flour fi c scalded milk 

J4 c. cooked rice 1 egg 

2 tbsp. sugar 1 tbsp. melted butter 

3 tsp. baking powder 

Turn milk on meal (scant me;isure of milk), let stand five 
minutes, add rice and flour, yolk, butter, and stiff white of 
egg- 

TEA RUSKS 

lyi c. flour 34 c. sugar 

1 egg % c. milk 

1 tsp. butter 13^ tsp. baking powder 

To egg and milk add melted butter and dry ingredients, 
Makes nine muffins. 

QRAHAH OEMS 

1 c. graham 1 c white flour 

1 c. milk 1 tbsp. butter 

2 tsp. baking powder 34 tsp. salt 
J^ c. sugar or sour milk and 1 tsp. soda 

GRAHAM nUFFlNS 

2 c. Reliable graham 134 c. milk 

1 tbsp. sugar 1 tbsp. melted butter 

Put the graham into a dish; add sugar; break ia the eggs 
and mix to a medium batter. Lastly, add the melted butter. 
Bake in small muffin cups. 

RYE MUFFINS 

Sift together one cup rye flour, one cup bread flour, one- 
half teaspoon salt and four teaspoons baking powder. Add 
two eggs, one cup of milk, two tablespoons molasses; mix and 
beat thoroughly. Bake in gem pans twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



OAXriEAL nUFFlNS 

1 c. scalded milk 1 c. cold cooked oatmeal 
J4 c. molasses y% tsp. salt 

Vz yeast cake , M c water 

2 to 3 c. flour 

Mix, beat, let rise. Beat and fill buttered tins half full, 
let rise and bake in moderate oven. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

3 c. bread flour 3 tsp. baking powder 

%, tsp. salt . Wi c. milk or water in part 

2 tbsp. melted butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add butter and milk. Bake 
in muffin tins. 

PIN WHEEL BISCUITS 

2 c. flour 3 tsp. baking powder 

Vz tsp. salt 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. butter ^ c. milk 

Yi c. raisins 2 tbsp. citron 

Yi tsp. cinnamon 

Mix as above, roll one-fourth inch thick, brush with 
melted butter, sprinkle with fruit and cinnamon and more 
sugar if desired. Roll like jelly roll, cut off pieces three- 
fourth inches thick. Place in hot oven fifteen minutes 

SOUTHERN SPOON BREAD 

Scald one pint of milk aud pour over one cup of corn 
meal, add one-half cup cooked rice. Cool, add two tablespoons 
butter, half teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons baking powder, two eggs 
(beaten separately). Hake in buttered dish till brown. 

CORN MEAL CRISPS 

Seven-eights cup of corn meal, add slowly one cup of 
boiling water; when smooth, and two and one-half tablespoons 
melted butter and one-half teaspoon salt. Spread on buttered 
inverted pan and bake. 



BREADS et 



PRUNE LOAF 

>2 lb. prunes 3 c flour 

3 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. butter 

Yz tsp. salt Water or milk 

Vz c. sugar 

Soak and stone prunes, cut into small pieces and add 
sugar. Mix biscuit dough, roll thin, spread on prune mixture 
and roll up. Bake as loaf or rolls, with or without sauce. 

SURPRISE ROLLS 

2 c. bread flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

X tsp. salt Yi c. milk 

2 tbsp. butter Vz c. chopped meat 

Sift dry ingredients, work in the butter, add the milk. 
Roll out and cut and fold in the chopped meat. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

"RELIABLE" CORN CAKES 

3 c. Reliable corn-cake Wz c. milk 

Yi c. sugar 2 tbsp. melted butter 

1 ^%Z 

Put the corn-cake flour into a bowl, add the sugar, e.'gg 
without beating, mix to a medium batter with the milk ; lastly, 
stir in the melted butter. BaUe in moderate oven. 

FRIED BREADS 

Fry in deep fat, bread, when it is ready for shaping, serve 
hot with maple syrup. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 c. hot boiled rice M tsp. salt 
2 c flour 2 c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 eggs 

Add milk to hot rice, let cool, add yolks and flour, and 
whites stiffly beaten. 



68 TRIED AND TRUE 

JOLLY BOYS 

2 c. rye Vo c. Indian meal 

J^ tsp. salt 2 tbsp. molasses 

1 tsp. cassia 1 c. flour 

2 eggfs 3 tsp. baking powder 

■Cold water to make a thick batter. Fry, serve with 
maple or sugar syrup. 

RICE WAFFLES 

2 c. flour 1% c. milk 

1 tbsp. butter 3^2 tsp. salt 

2 eggs 2 tsp. baking powder 
% c. boiled rice 

Rub butter into fl.our, add saU and mix thoroughly, sep- 
arate eggs, add yolks to milk, and this to flour, beat five min- 
ute.s. Put baking powder in center of batter, beat and add 
stiffly beaten whites and rice. 

ZWIEBACK 

1 c. scalded milk 1 c. water 

Vz c. butter 1-2 c. sugar 

1 yeast cake 3 eggs 

Yz c. lukewarm water Flour 

Make as bread and when baked in long narrow loaves and 
almost cold, cut into slices half inch thick, brown and dry 
in a slow oven. 

FLUME FLANNEL CAKES 

Mix one and one-half cup scalded milk, one-fourth cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half teaspoon of salt, one- 
half yeast cake and four cups of flour, then add stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs. Let rise over night, in the morning stir 
lightly down, turn into iron gem pans, and when well risen, 
bake twenty minutes. These cakes may be baked on a 
griddle. 



BREADS 



FRIED RYE MUFFINS 



% c. rye 2 eggs 

'^ ""■ flo"'' 3 t^p. baking powder 

^ <= ™ilk j^ tSp g^j^ 

/4 c. molasses 

Mix and fry as drop doughnuts 

QRIDDLE CAKES 

1 ^^^ 1 c milk 

2 tsp. baking powder Ji tsp, salt 

1 tbsp. sugar About 2 c. flour 

Beat egg, add milk. Sift dry ingredients. Combine. 
Ol/O^^^ X^^t4~f dft/uf^ fi^^'t^O^ (^'t.*Ay6^ . y,«yvt't^ ^t^fuCe^ 

(hiyi^ ^t^rCC- ^c^a4- (^^o^yt^^^ (O^Uoi^^U^^ '(>y^^ 



70 TRIED AND TFIUE 



Sandwiches 



'• Hunger is the best seasoning." — Cicero. 

For the lunch, the picnic and reception often there is 
nothing to quite take the place of the sandwich. The bread to 
be thus used should be at least twenty-four hours old and cut 
in thin slices with the crusts removed. The butter will spread 
to the best advantage if it is well creamed, as for cake, and this 
is preferable to melting it. Always season the filling tastily 
and cut in an)'- desired shape The sandwich is attractive and 
nutritious. 

LUNCHEON SANDWICHES or NOISETTE SANDWICHES 

With nut bread and currant jelly, jams or marmalades 
make fancy sapdwiches. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Use small sardiiies, wipe them, ^sprinkle with shredded 
lettuce, season with salt, pepper and lemon. 

BRUNSWICK SANDWICHES 

Make four or five layers of sandwich bread and filling, us- 
ing alternately chopped ham and creamed cheese and pickles. 
Press and cut. 

CREAHED CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Vi c. chicken y^ c. celery if desired 

1 c. milk 1 small boiled onion 

3 tbsp. flour 2 tbsp. butter 

Cook till thick, add two stiff whites, salt, pepper and lemon 
juice to taste. Turn into mould, first dipped in cold water. 
Let stand twelve hours, and use between buttered bread. 



SANDWICHES 71 



RIBBON SANDWICHES 



Brown and white bread, marmalade, butter. Alternate 
breads and fillings, using five to seven slices Cut off strips 
one inch wide. 

MOSAIC SANDWICH 

Cut four slices of white and five of graham bread, one- 
half inch in thickness, spread with creamed cheese, a slice of 
white, place on it a slice of graham, spread with cheese and 
nuts or olives, place on it a slice of white and repeat process, 
twice using graham, white or graham three times Place under 
weight After a whi'e combine the three and press again be- 
fore cutting. 



Figs 


Dates 


Bread 


Nuts 


Butter 


. 



Remove stems from figs and stones from the dates, chop, 
cook in double boiler with small quantity of water till paste is 
formed, cool, spread on buttered bread, sprinkle with finely 
chopped peanuts if desired. Cover with bread, cut. 

SANDWICH ROLLS 

Remove crusts, spread with .marmalade or sweet filling. 
Roll each like little jelly roll. 

CLUB SANDWICH 

Arrange on slices of toast cold chicken, fried bacon, sliced 
tomato and lettuce, add salad dressing with the chicken if 
desired. Cover with toast. 

SALAD ROLLS 

Cut a slit in a long finger roll, stuff with salmon, shrimp 
or any meat suitable for salads which has been seasoned with 
salad dressing. Garnish with ground parsley. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



Cakes 



" If you woul'l make good cake, 

L-et patitnce fill a measure full; 
Deal muscle wiih unsparing hand, 

And strew through all full 
Many a grain of common tense." 

All our cake mixtures can be divided into two classes. 
With butter : the butter cakes, so-called Without butter ■ the 
sponge cakes, properly speaking. Good materials, proper 
measurements, careful mixing and even baking are every one 
essential to success. 

The general butter cake rule of mixing is to first cream the 
butter (do not melt it); then gradually add the sugar, next the 
beaten yolks, then the sifted dry ingredients alternately with 
the milk; lastly, the stiff whites and flavoring. Everything 
ought to be ready before the mixing is commenced, and it is 
better to add the milk as suggested, and thus avoid any separa- 
tion of the butter and sugar in order to have a fine grain cake. 
In mixing a sponge cake, one generally adds the sugar to the 
beaten yolks, then the stiff whites, and lastly the dry ingre- 
dients and flavoring. Too much flour gives a heavy cake; too 
mtich butter often causes a cake to fall, and coarse stigar makes 
a heavy cake. 

Often it is wise for the inexperienced worker to use baking 
powder (a pure make) and thus have to measure two teaspoons, 
for example, whereas to get the same results with soda and 
cream of tartar, probably one of cream of tartar and one-half 
teaspoon of soda would be needed. The measuring of the half 
and quarter of a spoonful is often carelessly done, and then we 
wonder why the results are unsatisfactory. Some claim that a 



CAKES 73 

cake with baking powder will dry quicker, and nowadays we 
find that good results are obtained by using some of the com- 
mercially prepared flours in our cakes as well as in biscuits. 

SPONQE CAKE 

5 eggs (6 if small) 1 c. sugar 

Yt, lemon, rind and juice 1 c. flour 

34 tsp. salt 

Beat yolks, add sugar, lemon, salt, then whites stiffly 
beaten, and, lastly, sifted flour. Bake for sponge cakes, drops 
or jelly roll. 

Properly speaking sponge cake has many eggs and no 
baking powder ; but when we consider that butter and milk are 
not required, the expense is often not more than for other 
cakes. 

HOT WATER SPONQE CAKE 

4 eggs 2 c. sugar 

2 c. bread flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. lemon yi c. boiling water 

To stiff whites add yolks, sugar, lemon, flour and baking 
powder, and last the water. Two loaves. 

FOUNDATION CAKE 

y-i, c. butter 1 c. milk 

2 c. sugar 3 c. flour 

4 eggs . 3 tbsp. baking powder 

Flavoring 

Cream butter, add siigar, then beaten yolks and flavoring. 
Sift flour and baking powder, add alternately flour and mi'k, 
and lastly stiff whites. Bake for layer cake, large loaf or cup 
cakes. 

VARIATIONS 

Cocoanut,- marble, chocolate, orange ribbon or vanilla 
cakes. 



74 TRIED AND TRUE 



ORANGE CAKES 

Vi c. butter 1 c. sugar 

Vz c. milk 2 eggs 

1^ c. flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. orange extract 

Bake in small tins. Cut, fill and frost, using orange 
frosting (i) and orange filling (i). 







PRINCETON OKANQE CAKE 


Vz c. butter 

4 yolks 

IJi c. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 


y% 

4 


\ c. sugar 
c. orange juice 
c. cornstarch 
whites 



DELICATE CAKE 

A delicious cake, the characteristics of which are softness 
and sweetness. Though simple and easily made, this is a 
dainty cake. 

2 c. sugar 1 c. butter 

3 eggs 1 c. milk 

1 tsp. vanilla or lemon l?* pastry flour 

\y% c. Reliable prepared flour 

Bake in a moderate oven. As this cake is sweet, it does 
not require to be frosted. 

EXQUISITE CAKE 

\yz c. sugar yt, c. butter 

3 eggs Yi c. and 2 tbsp. milk 

1 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. vanilla 

3 oz. chocolate Ij^ c. flour 









LILY 


CAKE 




X3 


c. butter 






1 c. 


sugar 


yz 


cup milk 






1% c 


flour 


2H 


tsp. baking powder 




3 stiff whites 


Flavoring 












Mix in butter cake order. 


Bake 


in two li 



CAKES 



75 



NUT CAKE 



]/i. c. butter 

2^ tsp baking powder 

Yolks of 3 eggs 

J4 c. milk 



1% c. flour 
1 c. sugar 
Whites of 2 eggs 
% c. walnut meats 



Mix in general cake order, add vanila if desired, 
third white for frosting. 



Use 



1 c. sugar 

2 yolks 
1%. c. flour 

y^ c. softened butter 

^ c. nuts 

Vanilla 



ITALIAN CAKE 

% c. milk 



1^ tsp. baking powder 
5^ tsp. salt 
% c. raisins 
2 whites 



Beat five minutes. 



CORNSTARCH CAKE 



>i c. butter 

2 eggs 

2 tsp. baking powder 

M c. cornstarch 

% tsp. nutmeg 

J^ tsp. mace or cloves 

Follow butter cake rule. 



^ c. sugar 
34 c. milk 
T/s, c. flour 
% tsp. cassia 
Ys tsp. allspice 
1 tsp. vanilla 

White frosting. 



nOCHA CAKES 

Bake sponge cake as for jelly roll. 



1 c. sugar 

1)4 tbsp. cornstarch flour to 

make 1 cup 
134 baking powder 

Cut, frost and'ToU in cocoanut. Use mocha frosting. 



4 eggs (yolk) 

2 tbsp. cold water 

1 tsp. lemon extract 

4 stiff whites 



TRIED AND TRUE 



CHRISTMAS CAKE 

1 c. sugar 
Yolks of 3 eggs 54 c. milk 

1% c. flour 2)4 tsp. baking powder 

Whites of 2 eggs (stiff) }4 c. walnuts 

^ c. pecans yi c, raisins 



Mix in given order. 





LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 


1 
1 


c. butter 2 c. sugar 
c. milk 3;^ c flour 


2 
6 


tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. rose 
whites ,— • 




Mix in butter cake order. Bake in layers. 



FRUir AND NUT FILLING 

2 c. granulated sugar yz c water 

2 whites ^ c. chopped raisins 

^ c. pecan meats 3 figs 



^ c. cherries Angelica 



Pour S3'rnp when it threads onto stiff whites. Beat and 
add fruit. Use for filling and frosting. 

DREAMY SPONGE CAKE 

A most delicious and delicate sponge cake, calling for less 
eggs than most rules. This rule will be found convenient in 
the fall and winter months when eggs are high in price. 

3 eggs 1 c. sugar 

^ level tsp. salt H lemon (juice and rind) 

3^2 c Reliable prepared flour 34 c. pastry flour 

4 tbsp. cold water 

Beat eggs, sugar and salt with an egg beater until light 
and creamy, add the grated rind and juice of the lemon, also 
the cold water, stir but slightly. Lastly add the flour, mix 
gently, and bake in a moderate oven. 



CAKES V7 

FLORIDA NUT STICKS 

Mix Princeton or other orange caUe, add nuts and bake in 
large pan. Serve with orange filling in finger-shaped pieces. 

FILI-ING 

1 tbsp. butter 3 tbsp. confectioners' sugar 

2 tbsp. flour Yi c. sugar 

1 yolk y^ c. orange juice 

Cook till it thickens. 

MADELEINES 

2 eggs Yi c sugar 

1 tsp. baking powder M c. flour 

2 tbsp. melted butter Lemon extract 

Bake in six tins, and when cold cut a round from top, 
take out a portion, fill with jam or marmalade. Replace 
covers, garnish with jam and nuts. 

MOTHERS' FRUIT CAKE 



1 c. butter 






4 eggs 


1>^ c. brown sugar 




1 c. milk 


\^A. c. raisins 






4 c. flour 


1 c. currants 






1 tsp. cassia 


Vz tsp. allspice 






V-i c. citron 


1 c. molasses 






y^ tsp. clove 


Yz tsp. lemon 






Yi tsp. vanilla 


Butter cake 


me 


thod of 


mixing. 



FIQ CAKE 

Yi c. butter 1 c. sugar 

Vz c. milk 2 c. flour 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. vanilla 

Whites 3 eggs Vz lb. figs 

Follow butter cake rule and cut the figs into small pieces 
and put into mixture as it is put into the pan. Bake forty-five 
minutes. 



78 TRIED AND TRUE 









BUTTERCUPS 


3 


tbsp. butter 






% c. sugar 


4 


j'olks 






1 white 


Va 


c. milk 






I c. flour 


Ya 


tsp. soda 






\M tsp. ere 




Mace, bake 


in 


small tins. 





SUGGESTION 

White frosting and yellow decorations. 

ST. VALENTINE CAKE 

Va c. butter 2% tsp. baking powder 

1 c sugar Whites 2 eggs 
yi c. milk Vz tsp. vanilla 
1^ c. flour Va tsp almond 

Mix, bake, cut as heart. Frost and garnish 

SILVER CAKE 

4 whites of eggs 1 c. sugar 

34 c. butter Yz c. milk 

2 c. flour Yz tsp. soda 
1 tsp. cream of tartar Flavoring 

QINQER CAKES 

J^ c. butter Yt c. brown sugar 

Ya c. white sugar 2 eggs 

1 c. flour Flavoring 

Nutmeg Canton or preserved ginger 

Mix and bake in small tins. 

CHERRY CAKES 

Follow same recipe as for ginger cakes, and substitute 
candied cherries for the ginger. Bake in small tins. 

LADY FINGERS 

6 whites 24 c_ powdered sugar 

4 yolks 1 tsp. vanilla 

^/i c flour yi tsp. salt 



CAKES 79 

HEARTS AND ROUNDS 

These delicious little cakes are very much esteemed for 
their richness and fine flavor. 

1^ c. sugar y% c. butter 

5 eggs Yz level tsp. mace 

1 c. pastry flour ^ c. Reliale prepared flour 

Bake in small, fancy cake tins of the various shapes. They 
may be served plain or frosted with tutti fruti icing. 

ANGEL CAKE 

I c. flour 13^ c. sugar 

12 stiff whites of eggs 1^ tsp. cream of tartar 

1 tsp. vanilla or orange 

Sift flour five or six times before measuring. Add gently 
to whites the dry ingredients. Bake forty -five minutes in tube 
tin and let it brown at the end of fifteen minutes. Cover with 
paper during last half of baking. 

DATE CAKE 



4 


eggs 




2 c. brown sugar 


1 


c. molasses 




IJ^ c. butter 


1 


c. sour milk 




4 c. flour 


1 


lb. raisins 




1 lb. currants 


% 


lb. dates 




Vz lb. citron 


1 


tsp. soda 




1 tsp. cinnamon 


Yi 


tsp. cloves 




Yl tsp. nutmeg 




Makes two 


loaves and will keep several months. 








AUNT BETSEY CAKE 


^3 


c. butter 




2 c. sugar 


1 


c. molasses 




5 c. flour 


2 


eggs 




Wz Q.. cold water 


1 


nutmeg 




2 c. raisins 


1 


tsp. soda 




Salt 


^ 


tsp. clove 








Makes two large 


! loaves and will keep a long time 



80 TRIED AND TRUE 







GOLD CAKE 


4 yolks 




1 whole &%^ 


Vi c. butter 




1 _c. siigar 


y% c. milk 




2 c. flour 


1 tsp. cream < 


3f tartar 


y% tsp. soda 


Flavoring 







JELLY ROLL 

4 yolks 1 c. sugar 

3 tbsp. cold water 1 tsp. lemon extract 

\yi tsp. baking powder 4 stiff whites 

13^ tbsp. cornstarch and flour to make one cup. 

Bake cake, cut, spread and roll at once. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 oz. chocolate ^ c. milk 

1 yolk 

Cook together till smooth. 

2 tbsp. butter creamed with 1 cup sugar 

Combine and add 

Vz c. milk IJi c. flour 

1 tsp. soda 1 tsp. vanilla 

SinPLICITY CAKE 

Particularly recommended to the inexperienced in cake 
making, for it is easy, yet somewhat out of the usual method 
of mixing. 

13^ c. Reliable prepared flour Yz c. plain flour 

1 c. sugar 

Then add 

2 eggs, broken into the cup Milk to fill up the cup 
1 tsp. lemon }4, tsp. vanilla 

Yt c. melted butter 

Stir well together and bake in a moderate oven. Ice with 
boiled frosting. 



FROSTIJVGS 81 



Frosti ngs 



BOILED FROSTING 

1 c. sugar Yi c. water 

Few grains cream of tartar Whites of 2 eggs 
Flavoring 

Boil sugar, water and cream of tartar till it threads, stir- 
ring only a little. Pour syrup onto the stiff whites. Beat to 
spreading consistency. Flavor as desired. Tartaric acid 
sometimes used. 

CREAH FROSTING 

yi c. butter 1)4 c. confectioners' sugar 

Fink coloring Coffee to make of right 

3^ tsp. vanilla consistency, about 3 or 4 tsp. 

BLENDED FROSTING 

White of 1 egg 1 c. sugar 

H c. water Flavoring 

Confectioners' sugar 

Boil water and, sugar till it threads. Pour onto the white. 
Beat; add sugar (confectioners') till thick enough to spread. 

CONFECTIONERS' SUGAR FROSTING 

To white or yolk of egg, two tablespoons of milk, coffee or 
caramel flavoring, add sugar (confectioners') to stiffen and 
flavor. 

FROSTING GARNISHES 

Nuts, cherries, angelica or pastry bag garnishes may be 
added. Vegetable coloring used in making cake add much to 

variety. ^ ,f^yt2uv^io-yx>L^ .^^L^aO^i^ ^^Y^^r^/t-^ 






^-^(KAj-an^t/t^OL, 



\.^ak/L^ 



82 TRIED AND TRUE 



MARSHMALLOW ICINQ 

1 c. granulated sugar J4 c. water 

Boil to thread. Pour onto two stiff whites. When cool, 
add quarter pound of marshmallow and flavor for a light, fluffy- 
icing. 

CARAMEL FROSTING 

1^ c. brown sugar 34 c. white sugar 

Jg tsp. cream of tartar ^ c. water. 

Boil till syrup threads. Pour onto two stiff whites, beat 
and cool Cook over water till slightly granular on the edges, 
beat and spread. 

CREAHY FROSTINO 

Yi c granulated sugar 1 tbsp. butter 

yi c. milk 

Boil four or six minutes. Beat, flavor and spread. 

HAPLE SUGAR FILLING FOR CAKE 

1 c. maple sugar 1 c. cream 

1 c. light brown sugar 

Heat slowly and boil steadily with little stirring till a soft 
ball will form in cold water. Remove from the fire and add 
one cup nut meats and beat to spreading consistency. 

ORANGE FROSTING 

I 

1 tbsp. orange juice ■''. " Vz tsp. lemon juice 

Add to one egg, mix and blend with confectioners' sugar. 

II 

^ c. sugar 1 c. water 

3 whites ^ tsp. tartaric acid 

Vi c. orange peel (candied) 



FROSTINGS 83 

ORANGE FILLING 

3^ c. sugar 2>4 tbsp. flour 

^/i c. orange juice 1 egg 

yi, tbsp. lemon juice 1 tsp butter 

Mix, cook ten minutes, cool. 

MOCHA FROSTING 

yi c. butter 1}^ c. confectioners' sugar 

1 tbsp. cocoa Coffee to spread 

Cream butter, add sugar and cocoa, then cold coffee. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICING 

Add a little glucose to the soft vanilla icing, and stir in 
some little-bits of French cherries, greengatjes, apricots, and 
pineapple. This makes a very dainty icing for small cakes. 



84 TRIED AND TRUE 



Cookies and Doughnuts 



" No man can be wise on an empty stomach," — George Eliot. 

Luncheon for the children or the dinner to be carried calls 
for the cookies and doughnuts. Many housekeepers now use 
the drop cookies, as time is saved in the preparation, and re- 
cipes for both the drop and the rolled cookies are given. 
Many of the rich cookies are a pleasant change if used some- 
times on the table instead of cake. 

SPRINGFIELD COOKIES 

IVz c. sugar 1 c butter 

3 eggs Vz tsp. soda 

1 tsp. cream of tartar Flour to roll 

Roll very thin and sprinkle on the top sugar before baking, 
also almonds, chopped finely if desired. 





NUT 


COOKIES 


yi. c. butter 




y% tsp. cinnamon 


34 tsp. clove 




l-i tsp. nutmeg 


1 egg 




2 tbsp lemon juice 


Yi c. nuts 




3^ c. sugar 


2 c. flour 







Cream butter, add egg, nuts and dry ingredients. Toss on 
board, roll, cut and bake. 

HERniTS 

2 eggs y-i c. butter 
1 c. sugar ;^4 tsp soda 

3 c flour Yz c. raisins 

Roll, cut and bake. 



LUNCHEON COOKIES 




y% 


c. cottisuit or 


lard 


"A 


c. molasses 




1 


tsp. soda 




7 


c. flour 




% 


tsp clove 




1 


tsp. baking powder 



COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS 85 

ROLLED WAFERS 

M c. butter Vz c. confectioners' sugar 

Vi c. milk "/i c. bread flour 

y% tsp. vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar, then milk very slowly. Next 
flour and flavoring Spread this thinly on inverted pan, crease 
in three-fourth inch squares. Bake in slow oven. Roll while 
warm. 



2 c. sugar 

1 c. raisins 
yi. c. warm water 

2 eggs 
^ tsp. cassia 
34 tsp. nutmeg 
J^ c. currants, if desired 

Beat egg, add sugar, then molasses, melted shortening, 
water and sifted dry ingredients, lastly the fruit, dredged in a 
part of the flour. Drop small spoonsful on buttered tin and 
bake in moderate oven. 

BOSTON COOKIES 

Yi c. butter and lard 1 c. sugar 

2 eggs ^3 tsp. soda 

1 tbsp. hot water 2 c. flour 

^ tsp. salt Vz tsp. cinnamon 

^ c. raisins or currants ^ c nuts 

Drop and bake in moderate oven. 

QUAKER WAFERS 

2 eggs Vi c. butter 

1 c. sugar ■ J^ tsp. salt 

2 c. rolled oats 1 tsp. baking powder 
1 tbsp. flour 

Mix, drop on inverted tin. Bake and roll if desired. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



CHOCOLATE JUMBLES 

3^ c. butter y% c. sugar 

1 oz. chocolate Vz tbsp. milk 

1 Q^^ 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. flour and enough for rolling 

Mix, roll, cut and bake. Dust over with sugar if desired. 
THICK MOLASSES COOKIES 



1 

1 


c. molasses 
c. butter 






1 c. sugar 
1 c. lard 


1 
1 


c. boiling water 
tbsp. soda 






1 tbsp. ginger 
y% tbsp. salt 




Flour to roll. 


Cut 


half 


inch thick. 






CORNSTARCH COOKIES 


2 


c. sugar 






1 c. butter and 


1 


c. sour milk 






half each 


2 

1 


eggs 
tbsp. soda 






yi c. cornstarch 



Flour to make stiff enough for drop cookies. Drop from 
spoon onto buttered tins, and if the batter is not too stiff, the 
cookies will keep well and be very light. 

SUGAR QINQER COOKIES 

1 c. butter 2 c. sugar 
3 eggs 6 c. flour 

2 tsp. ginger 2 tsp. cream of tartar 
1 tsp. soda Flour to roll 

Roll very thin. Mark with a silver fork and cut into 
pieces two by five inches instead of using a cutter if desired. 

FAIRY QINQERBREAD 

y-i c. butter 1 c. sugar (brown) 

1/4 c. bread flour }{ tsp. soda 

3^ tbsp. ginger j^ c. milk 
Spread and bake. 



COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS 87 

ROLLED WALNUT WAFERS 

M c. butter Vi c. milk 

3^ c. confectioners' sugar 1 c. flour 

2 oz. chocolate Vi tsp. vanilla 

34 tsp. salt 1 c. walnut meats 

Mix, spread, crease and bake. Roll, at once. 

DATE WAFERS 

Vz c. butter Vz c. brown sugar 

34 c. milk 1 c. flour 

1 c rolled oats 

Mix, roll very thin, spread on half the mixture one-half 
pound of dates, stoned and chopped. Foil, roll, shape and 
bake in slow oven. 

SPONGE QINQERBKEAD 

23^ c. flour 1 tbsp. butter 

Vz c. molasses Vi c. sugar 

3^ c. milk 1 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. ginger V^ tsp. cinnamon 

Mix, bake in muffin tins, serve with sliced bananas and 
cream as a luncheon dessert. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS 

1 c. milk Yi c. shortening 

34 yeast cake 1 c. brown sugar 

X c. lukewarm water 2 eggs 

1 tsp. salt Vi nutmeg 
Flour 

Scald and cool milk, add yeast in water, salt and flour to 
make stiff batter. Let rise. Add shortening, sugar and eggs. 
Let rise and toss onto board, roll to three-quarter inch, using 
flour as needed. Cut, shape, let rise, fry in deep fat. Roll in 
sugar. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



DOUGHNUTS 

1 e,^^ 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. salt /4 tsp. cinnamon 

Vi nutmeg 4 c. flour 

Mix, roll and fry. 

"RELIABLE" COOKIES 

A standard and inexpensive rule. 

1 c. sugar 4 tsp. caraway seeds 

Vz c. butter \% c. Reliable prepared flour 

1 &^g 1% c. pastry flour 

Vz c. milk Vz tsp. lemon 

In making, follow directions for imperial cookies 



PASTRY 89 



Pastry 



" Who will dare to deny the truth, there is poetry in pie ? " 

— Longfellow. 

The plain and the puff paste are much used, and although 
the pie is not served as in olden days, pastry is used in most 
households in some ways. " There is a best way to do the 
worst things,'' and so even if pastry is hard to digest, it ought 
to be carefully made with the best materials; then the average 
person can eat it in moderation without ill effects. 

To make puff paste, one ought to see' it done and have 
experience ; but for many dainties, the plain paste, made with 
some lard and some butter, is a satisfactory recipe to follow 

A cool room, cool utensils and materials are necessary for 
the best results, and then the cold product of the mixing will 
be expanded by the intense heat of the oven. This is going 
to give the flaky and ungreasy pastry. 

PLAIN PASTE 

34 c. lard 1^ c. flour 

Y2. tsp. salt Water to form a dough 

34 c. butter 

Rab in lard, add water, roll and fold in washed butter. 
Roll and fold three or four times. 

PUFF PASTE 

Vz lb. butter >^ ft flour 

Cold water M tsp. salt 

Wash butter, rub two tablespoons into flour and salt, add 
water, toss on board. Pat, roll, fold in butter, repeat five to 
seven times. Chill, bake. 



90 TRIED AND TRUE 



FRANIPAN PIE 

Cut three circular pieces of pastry, size of a pie plate, prick 
and bake, and spread cream between and confectioners' sugar 
on the top. 

FRANIPAN CREAM 

% c. confectioners' sugar yz c. flour 

3 yolks 1 Qg^ 

% tsp. salt 1 c. milk 

Cook over water, add two tablespoons of butter, vanilla 
and powdered macaroons to flavor. ' 

FIG PrE 

Bake a pastry shell, fill with fig mixture. Three-fourths 
pound of figs, cook in a little water till skins are tender and 
liquid is reduced to one-half cup. Chop figs, add one-half cup 
of water, one-half teaspoon of salt, one-fourth cup sugar and 
lemon juice. 

Use with meringue. 

COCOANUT PIE 

Line a plate with paste and use the following filling : 

2 c. milk 3 egg yolks 

% c. sugar 2 tbsp. cornstarch 

1 c. grated cocoanut ^i tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. butter Juice of yi lemon 

Bake the shell and cook the filling separately. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PIE 

Line a plate with plain paste, fill with following and bake 
in moderate oven. 

2 eggs }s tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. sugar IJ^ c. milk 
1 or l}i oz. chocolate 

Serve with meringue if desired. 



PASTRY 91 



PUMPKIN PIE 

MIXTURE 

IJa c. Steamed pumpkin % c. brown sugar 

1 tsp. cinnamon J4 tsp. ginger 

y-i tsp. salt 2 eggs 

\y% c. milk J^z c. cream 

Bake with one crust. 

SAUCE 

M c. butter 1^ c. brown sugar 

1 yolk 3^ c. milk 

Cook over hot water, when thick add white and flavor. 

ORANGE TARTS 

Use puff or plain paste for shells. Fill with orange filling. 

ORANGE FILLING 

2 tbsp. flour 1 tbsp. cornstarch 

y% c. sugar Grated rind ^ orange 

Yi c. orange juice 3^ tbsp. lemon juice 

] e.g^ 1 tsp. butter 

Cook in double boiler ten minutes. Stir constantly. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

1 c. cheese 1 c. flour 

Water and shortening as for Salt and a dash of pepper 
pastry 

Roll and cut in strips. Bake and serve with salads and 
pies. 

SECOND METHOD 

Roll plain paste one-fourth inch thick, sprinkle on grated 
cheese. Fold, roll and repeat. Bake eight to ten minutes. 

HARLONE TARTS 

Fill pastry cases with cut and sweetened oranges, bananas 
and cocoanut. Put on cover and frost. 



92 TRIED AND TRUE 





CREAn TARTS 


1 c. milk 


1 ^^'g, 


^ c. sugar 


3 tbsp. flour 


Flavoring 


Garnish 


Tart shells 




Fill shells with 


cream. Garnish with meringue if desir 




MINCEHEAT 


2 c. meat 


6 c apples 


34 lb. raisins 


IV2. tbsp. salt 


5 c. sugar 


Yi, c. molasses 


Yi c. vinegar 


'Y c. shortening 


y^ c butter 


Yi c. liquor from meat 


^ nutmeg 


3 tsp. cinnamon 


1 tsp. allspice 


1 t.'jp. clove 



Makes two quarts and one pint or seven pies. Cook three 
to four hours. 

BRAHBLES 

1 c. chopped raisins 1 c. sugar 

1 e^gg Grated rind and juice 1 lemon 
Pastry rounds 

Fi'l and bake in rather' slow oven. A few walnut meats 
give variety. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE WITH PASTRY 

2 tbsp. bvitter Pepper 

3 tbsp. flour M c. cheese 
Vz c. milk 3 yolks 

Yz tsp. salt 3 whites 

Follow sauce rule, bake twenty minutes. Serve with 
parsley. 

CREAn HORNS 

Roll strips of paste on butchers' paper and make horns, 
to be filled with whipped cream. 



PASTRY 93 



PEACH PRALINES 

Shells of pastry. One cup of cream filling and one-half 
to two-thirds cup of praline powder, put spoonful in each, 
place on it a peach, and cover with meringue, brown delicately. 

PRALINE POWDER 

Caramelize one-half cup of sugar, add two-thirds cup of 
chopped nut meats, turn into buttered pan, cool, pound and 
put through coarse sieve 

PI nEAPPI E CUPS 

1 c. grated pineapple V^ c. sugar 

2 &%g yolks Rind and juice of 1 lemon 
Few grains salt 

Chill and fill tarts or cup shells. 

nARA3CHIV0 CLOVES 

Roll puff paste one-fourth inch thick, cut in strips Fold 
cherries into paste, making small dumplings. Bake and serve 
three or four to each person with a leaf of paste if desired, 
and some maraschino sauce. 

HARASCHINO SAUCE 

Yi c. sugar Yi c. water 

y% thsp. arrowroot 2 tbsp. jelly 

M tbsp. butter Salt 

2 tbsp. maraschino syrup 

LEHON CRISPS 

Cut puff paste one-eight inch thick in strips five inches 
and one inch wide. Put in pairs with lemon tilling between. 

LEMON FILLING 

Yz c. sugar IX tbsp. flour 

y% Qgg yi, tsp. butter 

Cook over water, cool. 



94 TRIED AND TRUE 

CHICKEN BOUCHEES 

Make small shells or bouch^es from puff paste, fill with 
chicken filling. 

CHICKEN FILLINQ 

VVz tbsp. flour Wz tbsp. butter 

■ Vi c. milk 2 eggs 

Chicken and seasonings 

Blend butter and flour, add milk and eggs, then chicken. 
Eggs separately or slightly beaten, or use yolks and whites for 
meringue. 

OYSTER BOUCHEES 

As above with oyster filling. 

Vi pt. oysters 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 1 c. milk and oyster liquor 

Salt Pepper 

Parsley 

VIENNA TARTS 

Fill shells with cream filling and arrange on each a peach. 
Serve with cream garnish and apple jelly if desired. 

CALVE TARTS 

Bake paste on inverted circular tins, fill with peach and 
garnish. Cream suggested. 

VOL=AU-VENT 

Roll puff paste one-third inch thick, cut oval piece, put on 
one or two rims, three-fourth inch wide and one-fourth inch 
thick. Chill and bake forty-five minutes. Bake a cover also. 

RASPBERRY PUFFS 

Roll paste one-eight inch thick, cut four by three and one- 
half inches. Add one-half to one tablespoon jam. Wet, fold, 
press, pick and bake. 



PASTRY 95 



SWEET BOUCHEES 

Fill bouchee shells with preserved fruit, garnish. Black- 
berries, strawberries or cherries suggested. 

SHRIMP OR SCALLOP PATTIES 

Fill pattie shells with creamed shrimp or scallops. 

CREAfl BASKETS 

Baskets made of plaiu paste filled with cream and fruit. 

CREAM AND FRUIT 

1 c. milk ^^ c. sugar 
3 tbsp. flour 1 &g^ 
Flavoring Salt 
Fruit Coloring 
Garnish 

Orange, lemon, violet, strawberry, raspberry, or chocolate. 

CONDES 

Puff paste 2 q^^ whites 

2 oz. blanched and chopped H c. confectioners' sugar 

almonds 

Beat eggs, add sugar, then almonds. Roll paste, cut three 
or four by one or two inches, spread mixture on, not putting 
it on edges. Bake about fifteen ininutes in a moderate oven. 

APPLE FLAWN 

Bake a shell of pastry. Fare, quarter and slice six apples, 
cook with one tablespoon of butter, three tablespoons of con- 
fectioners' sugar, rind from quarter of a lemon. Stir constantly 
and reduce to a puree, then add a few stewed apricots. 

Pare three apples, cut in eighths. Make a syrup of one 
cup of water and one cup of sugar. Cook half the pieces till 
soft and remove to a dish and save out some of the syrup. To 
rest, add red coloring and one-fourth cup of water. Boil re- 
maining apples. Fill shell with puree and garnish with apples 
and syrup. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



FLORENTINES 

Roll puff paste one fourth inch thick, cut into diamonds, 
prick, and bake. Spread with jelly and chopped nuts 

COCOANUT TEA CAKES 

Shape with fancy cutter and bake paste rolled one-fourth 
inch thick. When nearly done, cool slightly, brush over with 
beaten white and sprinkle with cocoanut Finish cooking. 

NUT STICKS 

Roll puff paste one-fourth inch thick, cut in strips five 
inches long and one inch wide, bake. Cool a little, brush over 
with white of an &%%, sprinkle with nut meats, chopped, and 
return to oven for two minutes. Garnish if desired. 

VEAL AND 0Y5TER PIE 

1 lb. veal cutlets Vz c. chopped ham 

1 pt. of oysters Butter 

Seasonings Moisture 
Pastry crusts 

Cut meat, fry in fat (bacon preferred), chop ham, arrange 
all in baking dish and bake twenty minutes. Transfer to 
hot crust with cover of the same. 

APPLE DUMPLINQ 

Plain paste Apples 

White of an e.%g Sugar 

Cinnamon Nutmeg 

Roll plain paste very thin. Cut in squares and place 
pared and cored apple on each. Fill cavities with seasonings. 
Wet edges with e.%g and fold points over apple. Bake in 
moderate oven. Serve with foamy sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS 97 



Hot Desserts 



" Bread, men say, is the staff of life, 
But they will oft concede 
That were it not for our dainty desserts, 
1 he staff would be heavy indeed " 

The hot dessert is usually a pudding and the means of 
cooking varies — baked or steamed m the majority of recipes. 
With the following puddings, too, one will find in many cases 
a sauce is necessary, and as in our meat sauces, so in the pud- 
ding sauces : use care, that the result may be smooth, well 
flavored, and suited to the particular dish with which it is 
served. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

Let one and one-third cups of "bread crumbs soak in cup of 
cold water for twenty minutes, add 

1 c. sugar 1 whole &g^ 

2 yolks 1 c. orange juice 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 1 tbsp. butter 
^ tsp. salt 

Bake and cool slightly. Use two whites for meringue. 

^ APRICOT 50UFFLE 

yi c. boiling water 2 tbsp. butter 

3^ c. flour 

Cook together. Add 
H c. milk 3 tbsp. sugar 

2 yolks 2 whites 

Pour over layer of apricots. Bake with dish set in pan of 
hot water. 



98 TRIED AND TRUE 

DELHONICO PUDDING WITH ORANGES 

6 oranges y% c. sugar 

Pour over them in dish following pudding : 

34 c. cornstarch 34 c. sugar 

1 qt. milk 

Cook twenty minutes 

1 tbsp. butter 4 j'olks 

Bake ten minutes 

Meringue 4 whites 

8 tbsp. confectioners' sugar 

Score with silver knife dipped in hot water. Brown, 
garnish with oranges. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE 

3 Q'gg yolks 1 tbsp. orange juice 

3 &%% whites 3^2 tsp. lemon juice 

3 tbsp. confectioners' sugar 34 tsp. salt 

To yolks, add sugar and juices, fold in whites. Bake 
fifteen to 'twenty minutes in buttered dish in moderate oven. 

ALHOND PUDDING 

4 tbsp. butter yi c. sugar 
3>^ c. molasses 2 eggs 

13^ c. flour Yz tsp. soda 

34 tsp. cassia 34 tsp. salt 

Vz c. milk ^ c. almoAds 

Mix and steam two and one-half hours. ....Vanilla sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

1 c. sugar 1 tbsp. butter 

2 eggs 1 c. milk 

3 c. flour 1 tsp. salt 
3 tsp. baking powder 

Mix and bake. Serve with chocolate or vanilla sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS 9& 



CUPID'S SOUFFLES 

Beat the yolks of three eggs and three-eights cup sugar 
together until light, add grated rind of half lemon and whites 
of three eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Add one cup stiiifly 
beaten cream and three-eights cup flour sifted with one-eight 
.teaspoon salt, sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake in hot 
oven ten minutes. Serve immediately. 

PUDDING AUX AMANDES 

3 yolks 34 c. sugar 
M tsp. salt 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 c. milk 

Let slices of baker's bread stand in this one hour. Butter 
moulds, sprinkle with almonds, put in layers of bread and 
peaches. Cover with buttered paper and steam till firm. 
Garnish. Serve with sweet sauce. 

THANKSQIVINQ PUDDING 

1 pt. bread crumbs 1 qt. milk 

4 yolks 2 tbsp. butter 
M c. sugar 1 c. raisins 

Vz tsp. cassia ^ tsp. cloves 

34 tsp. nutmeg 

Bake in moderate oven two hours. When cool, spread a 
layer of jelly and frost with meringue of four whites. Brown 
and serve hot or cold. 

FRUIT PUDDING 

Cream one cup of suet, add two and two-thirds cups of 
stale bread crumbs and one cup of grated carrots ; beat four 
yolks, add one and one-third cup brown sugar. Combine these 
two mixtures. Add one tablespoon lemon juice, one tablespoon 
vinegar, one cup raisins, three-quarters cup currants, one-third 
cup of flour, one and one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, half teaspoon nutmeg, one-quarter teaspoon cloves, 
four whites. Steam three and one-half or four hours. Serve 
with liquid or hard sauce. 



100 TRIED AND TRUE 



CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING WITH MERINQUE 

1 c. soft, stale bread crumbs 2 c. tnilk 
XVz oz. chocolate or 5 tsp. 1 c. sugar 

cocoa ^ tsp. vanilla 

2 tbsp. butter Yolks of three eggs 

Add bread, chocolate and sugar to cold milk, reserving" 
one-half cup. Cook till smooth in double boiler. Beat yolks, 
add milk, melted butter, salt and combine. Flavor and bake 
twenty minutes. Cool slightly and cover with a meringue. 
Serve hot or cold. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDINQ 

Yolks of three eggs, beaten 1 c. sugar 

3 tbsp. milk 1 oz. chocolate 
1 c. flour 3 whites 

1 tsp. cream of tartar Vz tsp. soda 

Put large 'spoonful in greased cups. Steam twenty 
minutes. 

SAUCE 

1 c. confectioners' sugar }'2 c. butter 

1 tsp. vanilla y% c, milk 

Place over hot water till smooth. 

BOSTON DELIGHT 

2 c. brown bread crumbs 3^ tsp. salt 
"^ eggs 4 c. milk 

2 tbsp butter 1 c. dried fruits 

Bake and garnish with whipped cream and serve with 
lemon sauce. 

DATE PUDDINQ 

2 c. flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

Yi tsp. salt 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. butter 1 egg 

li c. milk XYz c. dates 

Bake twenty minutes. Serve with liquid sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS 101 



CHOCOLATE PUDDINQ 

2 ozs. chocolate 2 c. milk ' 

^ c. sugar 3 tbsp. butter 

Yi c. flour 4 egg's 

1 c. cake crumbs y% tsp. vanilla 
Salt 

Soak crumbs, heat and combine all, except eggs Cool 
some, add eggs. 15alie in moderate oven. Serve with chocolate 
sauce (ii). 

HOT APPLE TRIANGLES 

2 c. flour Yi^ c. sugar 
^Yt, tsp baking powder Yir tsp. salt 
Yi c. shortening 2 apples 

1 ^^^ Yi ^- niilk 

Mix, bake, sprinkle with confectioners' sugar and serve. 

CHRISTHAS PUDDINQ 

% lb. suet % lb. raisins 

% lb. currants % lb. sugar 

% lb. dried bread crumbs 34 lb. citron 

2 sour apples Juice-of 1 lemon 
3^ tsp. clove yi, tsp. salt 

6 eggs 

Steam four hours in two buttered moulds and serve with 
German sauce. 

FEBRUARY PUDDINQ 

Soak one and one-half cups bread dice in cup warm milk 
one hour. Ad* 

3 eggs, slightly beaten M lb. candied cherries, cut in 
34 tsp. salt halves 

1 tsp. vanilla 2 tbsp melted butter 

Yi c. sugar 

Pour into buttered cups, set cups in pan of hot water and 
bake twenty minutes. Serve with sabayon sauce. 



102 TRIED AND TRUE 



NOTTINGHAM PEACH SHORTCAKE 

3 c. flour 4 tbsp. butter 

4 tsp. baking powder ^^ tsp. salt 

2 tsp. sugar Milk to moisten 

Mix as for biscuits, spread in buttered tins, bake. Fill 
with prepared peaches and garnish with cream and fruit. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDINQ 

5 c. milk Yi c. Indian meal 
}^ c. molasses 1 tsp. salt 

1 e.^^ 1 tsp. ginger 

y^, c. milk if desired 

Slowly pour the milk onto the meal. After cooking in 
double boiler for fifteen minutes, put all in buttered baking 
dish and bake in slow oven about two hours. Serve with 
cream. 

COCOANUT SOUFFLE 



Wz z. milk 


1 tbsp. butter 


Yi c. sugar 


1 c. cocoanut 


3 tbsp. cornstarch 


4 Qgg whites 



Mix cornstarch, sugar and cocoanut, add to hot milk, cook 
ten minutes, add the butter and stiff whites. Bake in small 
moulds in pan of water ten or twelve minutes. Serve with 
jam or custard sauce if desired. 

DELMONT PUDDING 

1 qt. milk 5 &'gg yolks 

4 tbsp. cornstarch 1 c. sugar 

13^ tsp. vanilla 

Mix sugar and cornstarch and combine with one-half cup 
of cold milk. Heat the rest of the milk and follow the custard 
method of preparation. Add one-half cup of sugar to the stiff 
whites and spread as a meringue on the custard in a baking 
dish. Brown delicately and serve. 



HOT DESSERTS 103 



TAPIOCA COCOANUT PUDDINQ 

y% c. Minute tapioca Yz c. cocoanut 

Cold water to cover, soak an hour, then add 

3 c. milk 3 eggs 

3^ c. sugar }{ tsp. salt 

Mix well and bake in buttered dish for about thirty min- 
utes. Serve hot with cream. 

PRUNE SHORTCAKE 

Soak the prunes several hours, cook slowly, without boil' 
ing, till tender but not broken, adding sugar when half done. 
Two tablespoons of sugar and a teaspoon of lemon juice to a 
pint of prune mixture is good. When soft remove and con- 
tinue cooking syrup longer. Use with a shortcake mixture 
and whipped cream. 

POPCORN PUDDINQ 

1 qt. milk 1 qt. popcorn 
3 eggs 3 tbsp. sugar 
Salt Spice if desired 

Soak corn and milk one hour and make as custard. Bake 
and serve hot or cold. 

STEAMED QRAHAH PUDDINQ 

2 c. flour 1 c. graham 
1 heaping tsp. soda y% tsp salt 

1 c. milk Vz c. molasses 

Ji c. raisins Spice if desired 

Mix and steam two hours. Serve with liquid pudding 
sauce. 

PEACH DELIQHT 

Put a deep layer of cooked peach in a buttered baking dish 
and then a layer of rich biscuit or shortcake mixture on, one- 
half inch thick. Make several cuts to allow the steam to escape 
and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with whipped or plain 
cream. 



104 TRIED AND TRUE 



Cold Desserts 



" The ornaments of a home are the friends that frequent it." 

Often it is more convenient for the housekeeper without a 
maid to serve a cold dessert, especially when entertaining, and 
more can be made early in the day, if not on the previous day, 
than books of twenty years ago show 

Custards, fruits, compotes, gelatine dishes and cream 
desserts are found in this chapter, with various dressings. 

CHOCOLATE WHIPS 

1 pt. milk 2 eggs 

^ c sugar 3 tsp. cocoa 

yk tsp. salt Heavy cream 
Chopped nuts 

Mix dry ingredients, add to beaten eggs, combine with 
hot milk. Cook and serve cold in punch glasses with cream 
and nuts. 

COCOANUT MOULD 

1 pt. milk 4 tbsp. cornstarch 

3 tbsp. sugar y^ c. cocoanut 

4 tsp. cocoa y^ tsp. vanilla 

Heat the milk in double boiler. Mix the cornstarch, cocoa, 
sugar and salt, moisten with a little of the milk; saved for this 
purpose. Add to the milk. When thick, add vanilla and half 
of the cocoanut, mould, garnish with the rest of the cocoanut. 
Serve with miUi or custard. 



COLD DESSERTS 105 



TAPIOCA PRU^E DESSERT 

Cook in a double boiler for fifteen minutes one pint of milk, 
four level tablespoons of Minute tapioca and a pinch of salt. 
Remove from fire and add one tablespoon of butter, two table- 
spoons of sugar and yolks of two eggs. Pour into a buttered 
pan and bake for one-half hour in moderate oven. Have ready 
a cup of prunes that have been steamed till tender and rubbed 
through a sieve. Spread this purde over the tapioca. Pile 
roughly on top of prunes the whites of two eggs well beaten 
with two tablespoons sugar. Brown slightly in oven. Serve 
hot or cold with milk or cream. 

VIOLET CREAM 

3 tbsp. Knox gelatine Yi c. cold water 
2;^ c. boiling water 1 c. sugar 

4 tbsp. lemon juice Coloring 

Mould, garnish with violets, and by using a smaller dish 
leave space in center to fill with French cream. 

FRENCH CREAfl 

34 lb. raisins M c. water 

Cook till soft. 
1}^ c milk ^ c. sugar 

3 eggs % tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. Knox gelatine Flavoring 

Make a custard, add raisins, garnish with sweetened whites 
(stiffly beaten) if desired, also candied violets. 

ROLLED MARSHriALLOWS 

1 tbsp. Knox gelatine 3 whites 

1 c. boiling water 1 c. sugar 

1 tsp. vanilla Macaroons 

Dissolve the soaked gelatine, add sugar and pour onto 
whites, chill, beat and allow it to stiffen in a shallow pan. 
Cut and roll in macaroons, dried and rolled till fine. Serve 
with cream and sugar if desired. 



106 TRIED AND TRUE 

PRUNE WHIP 

20 prunes y% c. sugar 

4 whites Custard sauce 

Soak, cook and strain prunes, add sugar; when thick add 
whites. Set and cool. 

QUEEN'S DAINTY 

1 lb. tokay grapes 2 c. marshmallows 

1 c. cream (whipped) 

Cut grapes and marshmallows, and mix. Serve in cups. 

MACAROON CREAM 

Vi box. or 1 tbsp. Knox gelatine 2 c. milk 

34 c. cold water Yi c. sugar 

Yi tsp. salt Yi c. pounded macaroons 

3 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 

Soak gelatine in water, make custard, reserving whites and 
macaroons. Combine, strain into a dish set in ice water. As 
it thickens add stiff whites and macaroons, mould and garnish. 

IRISH MOSS BLANCHANQE 

Yi c. moss 34 tsp. salt 

4 c. milk VVz tsp. vanilla 

Soak moss fifteen minutes, pick over and add to milk, 
cook thirty minutes. Strain, flavor, color half pink. Chill in 
shallow dish and use heart cutter to make attractive dish for 
Valentine's Day. 

VAMLLA SOUFFLE.S 

Scald one pint of thin cream, add three-fourths cup of 
sugar, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of vanilla, 
two tablespoons of Knox gelatine soaked in one-half cup of 
cold water. Strain, cool, and when mixture begins to thicken 
add stiff whites of four eggs. Turn into small moulds and 
when cold, serve with whipped cream garnish, candied cherries 
and angelica. 



COLD DESSERTS 107 



APPLES PRALINEES 

Pare and steam apples, cover with sugar changed to cara- 
mel, and chopped nuts, allowing two tablespoons of sugar and 
two tablespoons of nuts to each apple. Pour on while apples 
are hot. Serve hot or cold with plain or whipped cream. 

DATE SHAPE 

Pour one pint of boiling water over one-half pound of 
dates, stir and separate with fork, skim from water, place in 
pan in oven for five minutes, stone and cut ; add juice of half a 
lemon, one-fourth cup of sugar, one-half cup of orange or 
other fruit juice, one-fourth package Knox gelatine, softened 
in one-fourth cup cold water and dissolved in one-fourth cup 
boiling water. Chill and garnish with nuts and serve with 
cream, milk or custard sauce. 

SURPRISE COFFEE JELLY 

Mould coffee jelly in double mould and before serving, fill 
inner mould with whipped pream or charlotte russe mixture, 
also use ladies' fingers or macaroons if desired. 

COFFEE JELLY 

2 tbsp. Knox gelatine Vt, c. cold water 

ZVz c. coffee Vz c. sugar 

SOFT CUSTARD 

1 pt. milk 2 eggs or 3 yolks 

Yi, c. sugar J^ tsp. salt 

Yi tsp. vanilla 

Heat niilk. Add sugar and salt to beaten eggs, add part 
of milk to Qgg and return to double boiler, stir till it thickens. 
Strain, flavor. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

1 c. sugar Vz c. water 

Melt and brown sugar, add water gradually, cook till dis- 
solved. Use as flavoring for custards and creams. 



108 TRIED AND TRUE 



BANANA ISLAND 

Soft custard Whites of eggs 

2 bananas Cubes of red jelly 

Make custard as above, using yolks. Put stiff whites on 
the custard and part of the bananas in the custard. Decorate 
the top with the rest of the bananas and jelly. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

1 c. apple pulp 1 pt. Iream 

Vz box Knox gelatine Sugar to taste 

I 
Dissolve gelatine in one-fourtlr cup of cold water, whip 

cream and combine all. Beat in dish of ice water till it holds 

its shape, mould; serve custard sauce if desired. 

BAVARIAN CREAM WITH FRUIT 

1 pt. can fruit 1 c. sugar 

^A box Knox gelatine 1 kpt. cream 

Yz c. cold water Vz c. hot water 

Mash the fruit, press through a pur6e strainer; add the 
dissolved gelatine. Cool, and when it has thickened, add 
cream (whipped) and mould. Peaches, apricots, raspberries 
or pineapples can be used. jfe 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

Cook in a double boiler for fifteen minutes one quart hot 
milk, two heaping tablespoons Minute tapioca and a little salt, 
stirring frequently. Beat tog-ether the^^olks of two eggs and 
one-half cup sugar, and at the end of fifteen minutes stir into 
the milk and tapioca. Let all this cook till it begins to thicken 
like custard. Remove from fire, pour into a dish and whip in 
the beaten whites of the eggs until no white is to be seen. 
Add any flavoring desired. It is delicious poured, when cold, 
over any fresh fruit, as strawberries, raspberries, peaches or 
oranges. 



COLD DESSERTS 109 



APPLES IN RICE 

One cup washed rice, cooked. Line buttered cups with 
the rice, fill centers with slices of cooked apples, cover with 
rice, rounding the tops slightly. Cook in oven fifteen minutes 
in dish of water. Serve from moulds with custard sauce and 
cherries. 

ORANQE FLOAT 

1 pt. water Juice of 1 lemon 
y% c. sugar 2 or 2j^ oranges 

2 tbsp. cornstarch 

Put water on to boil. Moisten cornstarch with a little cold 
water. Boil slowly ten minutes, stirring constantly. Take 
from the fire; add sugar, lemon and oranges (in small pieces). 
Cool. Serve with sugar and milk or cream in orange cups if 
desired. 

CHOCOLATE MOULD 

4 tbsp. cornstarch ^ c. cold milk 

2 c. scalded milk 34 c. sugar 

yi tsp. salt 3 egg whites 

Yi tsp. flavoring V^ c. almonds 

2 oz. chocolate or 3 tsp. cocoa 

Mix, cook till thick ; chill. 

*i DATES WITH CREAM 

Cover dates with hot water, stir with fork. Drain dry, 
stone and cut. Serve with sweetened cream, whipped. 

HARLEQUIN SPANISH CREAM 

2 tbsp. Knox gelatine 4/ c. milk 

3 eggs * Vi, c. sugar 
J^ tsp. salt Macaroons 

Scald milk with gelatine, add sugar, pour slowly on yolks. 
Cook five minutes or until thickened, stirring constantly. Re- 
move from range, add oue teaspoon vanilla and whites. Color 
for three layers and add macaroons between each layer. 



110 TRIED AND TRUE 



CHOCOLATE OR COCOA BLANCHANQE 

Add one-half cup Minute tapioca, one-half cup sugar and 
a little salt to three cups chocolate or cocoa and let cook fifteen 
minutes, stirring frequentl}^ Remove from the stove, flavor 
with vanilla and pour into a mould. Serve cold with sugar 
and cream. 

CREAM PUFFS 

1 c. water 34 c. butter 

1 c. flour 4 eggs 

Boil up water and butter once, add flour. Stir and cool 
slightly, add eggs. Bake and fill with cream (cooked or 
whipped). 

CREAM RINQ 

Make puff mixture for ring with one cup of water, one 
cup of flour, one-quarter cup of butter, four eggs Bake. Fill 
center with sweetened cream, garnish, using marmalade or 
jam. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 pt. thick cream J^ c. milk 

34 box Knox gelatine Yz c. confectioners' sugar (or to 

Flavoring taste) 

Cake 

Let the gelatine di.ssolve in warm milk. Cool. Whip 
cream, add milk, gelatine, sugar and flavoring. Put in mould 
lined with sponge cake. Set in cool place four or five hours. 
Ladies' fingers may be used. 

CHERRY RUSSE 

Follow the recipe above, and put into the cream mixture 
one-third cup of candied cherries. 

NUT RUSSE 

In the above, substitute one-half cup chopped nuts for the 
cherries. 



COLD DESSERTS 111 



ALMOND CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

4 yolks 1 c. confectioners' sugar 

4 whites H c. cocoa 

yi c. almonds % c. cracker dust 

1 tsp. baking powder 

Bake in small tins. Cut and fill or garnish with cream 
and cherries. 

KURNQUAT JELLY 

Ij^ c. kurnquat juice % c. orange juice 

Ji c. sugar 1 tbsp. Knox gelatine 

Few grains salt ' 2 tbsp. cold water 

Wipe one-fourth box kurnquat, cut in slices, add cold 
water to cover, bring to boiling point, then cook slowly for 
thirty minutes, strain, and there should be about one and one- 
half cups. Chill in small moulds. Garnish with kurnquat 
slices. 

QRAPE JUICE SPONGE 

1 tbsp.. Knox gelatine % c. water 

1 c. grape juice % c. sugar 

When thickened a little, add two stiff whites, and when it 
holds its shape, put in glasses with ladies' fingers and garnish 
with cream and violets if desired. 

STEAHED APPLES 

Pare, core and steam in syrup of two cups of water to one 
and one-half cups of sugar. Use as sauce or for compote with 
fruit garnish; raisins, cherries, nuts or jelly. 

PUDDING A L'ADREA 

1 c. cream Yi c. sugar 

2 egg whites Flavoring 

^ tbsp. Knox gelatine in 1 tbsp. cold water 

Scald cream, add sugar, gelatine and stiff whites. Line a 
mould with red and green jelly and fill with cream mixture, 
chill. 



112 TRIED AND TRUE 



APPLE A LA MERINQUE 

1 egg white 1 tbsp. confectioners' sugar 

3^ tsp. vanilla 

Pile on baked apples, brown slightly. Serve with custard 
or cream if desired. 

APPLE SNOW 

3 &%^g whites J4^ c. apple pulp 

Confectioners' sugar 

Serve cold with custard as a dessert or serve as filling for 
a cake pie. 

nARSHHALLOW PUDDINQ 

1 tbsp. Knox gelatine 1 c. sugar 

Yi^ c. boiling water 3 z^g whites 

M c. cold water 13^ tsp. vanilla 

Dissolve gelatine, add sugar when syrup is cool, combine 
with stiff whites, beat with e.%% beater till it thickens. Cool in 
shallow pan and cut like marshmallows. Serve with cream 
and sugar. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE 

3 yolks Juice of 1 lemon 

Salt }^ c. sugar 

Cook and add 

yi c. pineapple \^A tsp. Knox gelatine 

Vz c. thick cream, beaten 3 whites 



Mould. 



LOQ CABIN PUDDING 



1 c. candied fruits 1 c. of cream, whipped 

y2 c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 c. canned fruit Ladies' fingers 

1 tbsp. Knox gelatine in 34 c. milk 



COLD DESSERTS 113 



JUNKET PUDDING 



Drop one Junket tablet in a tablespoon of cold water and 
crush with a teaspoon in a cup. Heat one quart of milk till 
lukewarm ; add sugar and flavoring to taste, according to the 
fruit to be used. It can be poured into cups to (harden and 
served plain or with peaches, pineapple, or other fruits. Make 
it chocolate or coffee Junkets for variety, too. Good for in- 
valids or children. 

COCOANUT CREAM TAPIOCA 

Boil fifteen minutes in a double boiler, stirring frequently, 
one quart of hot milk, two level tablespoons of Minute tapioca, 
three tablespoons of cocoanut and one small cup of sugar. 
Add the beaten yolks of three eggs and remove at once from 
the stove. Cover with the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
with a little sugar and brown in a quick oven. Serve hot or 
cold. 

APPLES, MANHATTAN STYLE 

Place steamed apples on rounds of cake (sponge is best), 
cut one-half inch thick. Boil syrup more, add red jelly, and 
serve as a sauce, and garnish also with cream and maraschino 
cherries. 

HAPLE WALNUT TAPIOCA 

Heat one pint of milk, stir in carefully two tablespoons of 
Minute tapioca, cook fifteen minutes, then add the well beaten 
yolks of two eggs and a pinch of salt, but no sugar. Stir for 
three minutes, then let cool. Take two-thirds cup of thick 
maple syrup and beat into the cool tapioca, add one cup of 
broken English walnut meats. Serve with whipped cream and 
place half nuts on the top. 

APPLE COMPOTE 

Prepare apples as for pralines, bake or steam. Serve 
with the syrup and bright jelly in the holes. Cool if desired. 



114 TRIED AND TRUE 



LEnON PUDDINQ 

Juice of 1 lemon 2 eggs (yolks) 

>i c. sugar yi. tsp. salt 

Beat all together, add one-half cut of boiling water and 
cook till it thickens, then add stiff whites. To be served cold 
and with a custard sauce if desired. 

COFFEE CREAMS 

1 c. strong coffee 1 c. milk 

4 eggs 4 tbsp. sugar 

Salt 

Strain into cups, bake in pan of water. 



PUDDING SAUCES 115 



« 

Pudding Sauces 



" Give a man sauce enough and he will eat any pudding you set 
before him." — Lucy Maria. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 
I 
1 c. sugar y-i, c. water 

1 tsp. cornstarch J^ tsp. vanilla 

4 tsp. cocoa 

Boil all till thick and smooth. 

II 
1 oz. chocolate Ji c. water 

1 c. sugar 1 tbsp. flour 

Yz c. milk, rich 

Boil and add milk last. 

MOUSSELINE SAUCE 

4 yolks 1 c. confectioners' sugar 

Cook five minutes. Set in ice wate*-, beat till cold, add 
one cup of cream (beaten), few grains of salt, one teaspoon 
vanilla. 

LIQUID SAUCE 

1 tbs[). butter 1 tbsp. flour 

1 c. hot water IM tbsp. molasses 

Vz c. sugar y% tsp. salt 
Grating nutmeg 

Cook in given order, except nutmeg. Boil thoroughly; 
add nutmeg before serving. 



116 TRIED AND TRUE 



VANILLA SAUCE 

Vz c. sugar • 1 c. water 

1 tbsp. cornstarch 2 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. vanilla Few grains salt 

Boil five minutes, add butter and vanilla last. 

LEMON SAUCE 

Yt. c. sugar 2 tbsp. butter 

1 c. boiling water \W tbsp. lemon juice 

] tbsp. cornstarch Few gratings of nutmeg 
Few grains of salt 

ALMOND SAUCE 

% c. cream 2 tsp. confectioners' sugar 

Almond extract Few almonds chopped 

NUN'S BUTTER 
% c. butter 1 c. confectioners' sugar 

1 tsp. vanilla 2 whites 

Cream butter, add sugar and whites. Cool. 

PEACH SAUCE 

Syrup from can of peaches ; one-half can peaches. Cook 
slowly thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve. Salt. 

FOAnV SAUCE 

Vi, c. butter 3^ c. confectioners' sugar 

White of 1 egg Few grains salt 

Vi c. heavy cream y% tbsp. vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar, then &'gg beaten stiffly, salt 
and blend over heat. Remove, add stiff cream and vanilla. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

Y-i pt. milk 2 yolks 

2 tbsp. sugar J^ tsp. salt 
^i tsp. vanilla 



PUDDING SAUCES 117 



SABAYON SAUCE 

Juice of 1 lemon ^ c. sugar 

2 yolks Yz c. water 

Mix over heat till it begins to thicken. Pour onto two 
stiff whites. 

QERriAN SAUCE 

4 yolks M c. sugar 

Rind 1 lemon 

Stir over heat till the mixture coats the spoon, and serve 
hot. 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

Melt to caramel form one-third cup sugar, add one-third 
cup hot water, and simmer till all is a liquid. Add when cold 
to one cup thick cream, beaten till stifif. 



118 TRTED^PrND TRUE 



Frozen Dishes 



" All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is 
not filled." 

This subject can be divided into three classes : the ice 
creams, made with cream or milk and frozen with motion ; the 
parfait, mousse or glace, frozen by packing in ice and salt; and 
the sherbet, frappe and punch, water ices, frozen with motion 
again 

Sometimes a combination is used and another name still 
given to the result. 

Two things are necessary to insure success : the careful 
crushing of the ice and the use of the proper proportion of 
coarse rock salt and ice. 

Three measures of ice to one of salt for ice creams, two of 
ice to one of salt for mousses, and one of ice to one of salt for 
a frappe is a good rule. The sherbet should be firm and so 
takes the proportion that the ice cream does, and in repacking 
or packing down a mixture of any kind, less salt is needed than 
this rule suggests. 

In freezing, turn the crank until it turns with a great diffi- 
culty, then open and remove the dasher, stir the cream from 
the sides of the can and mix all smoothly. Close the can with 
brown paper under the cover if desired and put a cork in the 
cover, draw off the brine, add fresh salt and ice, to cover the 
top and place over all an old piece of carpel or burlap bag. 
After two or three hours it is ready to serve. 

ORANGE FRAPPE 

yl c. sugar 3 c. water 

1 c. orange juice 
Freeze. 



FROZEN DISHES 119 



PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAH 

1 qt. thin cream y^ c. sugar 

1 tbsp. vanilla 

Mix and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAH 

2 qts. thin cream 1 pt. strawberry preserve 
1>^ c. sugar 

Mix sugar and cream, freeze till a mush. Add fruit, con- 
tinue freezing. Pack and let it stand about three or four hours 
before serving. Garnish as desired. 

VANILLA ICE CREAH 

3 pts. milk 2 eggs 

1 " tbsp. flour \^A c. sugar 

1 tbsp. vanilla 

Cook as soft custard and cool, then freeze. 

BANANA ICE CREAH 

Peel four or six ripe bananas and rub the pulp through 
a puree strainer and add to either recipe for vanilla ice cream, 
omiting half of the vanilla 

COFFEE ICE CREAH 

To the recipe above add one-half cup of strong, clear cof- 
fee in place of the vanilla. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

1 qt. thin cream 2 c. milk 

lj^§ c. sugar 1 Qgg 

1 tbsp. flour 1 tbsp. vanilla 

Make as vanilla cream above and use half of the sugar in 
the custard and caramelize the rest and add slowly to the hot 
custard. This is a combination of the Philadelphia and custard 
cream and can be used with many flavors. 



120 TRIED AND TRUE 



GINGER ICE CKEAH 

Follow the recipe of the vanilla creaxn and in place of 
half the vanilla called for, add one-half cup of Canton ginger, 
cut in small pieces. Add when two thirds frozen. 

riAPLE PARFAIT 

Beat four eggs, pour on slowly one cup of hot maple syrup. 
Cook over water till thick, stirring constantly. Strain and 
cool. Add one pint of thick cream, stiffly whipped, and mould 
for three hours. 

SILVER PARFAIT 

1 c. sugar 1 c. water 

3 stiff whites 1 pt. thick cream 

1 tbsp. vanilla 

Make a sugar syrup and follow above recipe. Mould for 
three or four hours. 

CHOCOLATE nOUSSE 

1. pt. thick cream % c. confectioners' sugar 

2 oz. chocolate % tbsp. Knox gelatine 
34 c. cold water % c. hot water 

Vz tsp. vanilla 

Add cold water to gelatine, then the hot water. Melt the 
chocolate. Combine as above and mould for three hours. 

COFFEE MOUSSE 

1 pt. thick cream 1 c. clear coffee 

Vi c. confectioners' sugar • ^ tsp. salt 

Beat cream and combine, mould four hours, Grape juice 
or any fruit juice can take the place of the coffee to vary the 
recipe. 

COUP SUZANNE 

Half fill glasses with rich vanilla ice cream, add apricots 
which have been cooked in syrup or kurnquats. Cover with 
ice cream and garnish. 



FROZEN DISHES 121 

LEMON SHERBET 

WITH MILK 



4 c. water \\i c. sugar 

Juice of 3 lemons 

Mix and freeze. 

FRUIT SHERBET 

WITH WATER 

1 qt. water 1 pt. fruit juice 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. Knox gelatine if desired 

Add two tablespoons cold water and then one-quarter cup 
hot water to the gelatine and combine all. If lemon is used, 
one cup is sufficient. Freeze. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM 

3 pts. thin cream % c. sugar 
1 can grated pineapple 

Mix fruit and cream, and after one-half hour, strain, add 
sugar and freeze. 

JUNKET ICE CREAM 

4 c. milk, lukewarm 1 c. thick cream, unbeaten 
1 tbsp. vanilla Wz Junket tablets 

'VYx c. sugar ^ tsp. salt 

Dissolve tablets in one tablespoon cold water, mix, and 
let all stand in shallow dish till set. Flavor and freeze, serve 
with a fruit garnish. 

STRAWBERRY COUP 

3 c. milk 1 c. sugar 

1 &^^ 1 tsp. flour 

Flavoring Fruit 

Make custard, cool and freeze. Fill glasses half full of 
fruit and cover with custard ice cream. Garnish. 



122 TRIED AND TRUE 



CRANBERRY PUNCH 

One quart cranberries and one pint water cooked five to 
eight minutes. Strain, add two cups sugar, juice of one lemon 
and cool. Freeze as sherbet. Serve in glasses. 

PEACH SHERBET 

1 qt. peach juice 2 c. sugar 

1 qt. water Juice of 1 lemon 

2 ^g% whites 

Mix and freeze. 

BISCUIT PRINCESS 

Ice cream colored and flavored with strawberry 
Cherries y^ c. sugar 

M c. water 4 yolks 

1 tbsp. vanilla }s tsp. salt 

13^ c. heavy cream 

Boil sugar and water till it threads, pour onto broken 
yolks, cook till it thickens, beat till cold. Flavor and add stiff 
cream. Line melon mould with ice cream, fill with this par- 
fait mixture and cherries. Cover with buttered paper, pack 
and let stand several hours. 

ANGEL PARFAIT 

1 tsp. Knox gelatine 2 tbsp. cold water 

2 &gg whites, beaten dry Vz c. French fruit, cut fine 
VYz c. double cream, beaten 5^ c. granulated sugar 

light ^2 c. water 

3 tbsp. wine or thick syrup 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water five minutes or longer. 
Boil the sugar and half cup of water to the soft ball degree (as 
in making boiled frosting), pour in a fine stream onto the whites 
of eggs, beating constantly meanwhile, add the gelatine, stir 
over cold or ice water until the mixture is cold and begins to 
set, then fold in the cream, the fruit and the flavoring. The 
fruit will be softer if soaked in the wine or syrup some hours 
or over night. Turn into a quart mould, lined with paper, 
cover securely and let stand in equal measures of ice and salt 
about three hours. 



FROZEN DISHES 123 



PARFAIT A LA CARLOS 

34 box Knox gelatine % c. cold water 

3 eggs 1 pt. cream 

1 c, sugar 1 c. strong coffee 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Make a syrup of the 
coffee and sugar ; in this, cook the beaten yolks of eggs until 
the mixture thickens ; add the gelatine, stir until cold. When 
cold, add cream which has been whipped. Freeze and serve 
in parfaif glasses, putting over the top the beaten whites of 
eggs or a little whipped cream, and decorate with candied 
cherries. 



124 TRIED AND TRUE 



Beverages 



" Drink down all unkindness." — Shakespeare. 

TEA 

Fresh boiling water is the first essential to teS, making. 
Allow three teaspoons of tea to one pint of water for general 
use and allow the tea to draw for five minutes, then serve at 
once. 

COFFEE 

1 c. coffee 1 e.gg 

1 c. cold water 6 c. boiling water 

Dilute slightly beaten eg^ with half the cold water and 
add with crushed shell to the coffee. Put into the coffee pot 
and add boiling water, stir well and boil three minutes. Set 
on back of range to settle and add rest of cold water. 

COCOA 

Allow one teaspoon of cocoa and one of sugar to each cup 
and use equal parts of milk and water for the liquid. Mix dry- 
ingredients with part of the water, which should be cold, and 
then add the rest of the liquids. 

QRAPE PUNCH 

1 lb. sugar 1 c. water 

5 lemons 1 qt. grape punch 

Dilute to serve. 

niNT JULEP 

1 qt. water 1 c. strawberry juice 

2 c. sugar 1 c. orange juice 
1 pt. AppoUinaris water Ij^ c. lemon juice 
12 sprigs mint Water 



BEVERAGES 125 



CHOCOLATE 

1 stick chocolate 3 tbsp. water 

Dissolve, add two cups of milk, boil five minutes. Use 
sweetened chocolate. Add sugar if desired. Or 

\yz oz. Baker's chocolate ^^ c. sugar 

1 c. water 3 c. milk 

Salt 

LEMON SYRUP 

1 c. lemon juice 3 pts. water 

3 c. sugar 

Boil sugar and water twelve minutes, add juice, cool, 
dilute to taste for lemonade. Bottled syrup can be kept on 
hand. 

CHERRY PUNCH 

1 c. water 1 c. tea infusion 
5 lemons 5 oranges 

2 c. sugar 1 c. maraschino cherries 

3 bananas 

Dilute with water. 





FRUIT PUNCH 


1 


c. water 5 lemons 


5 


oranges 1 small bottle maraschino 


3 


bananas chgrries 


1 


pt. ApoUinaris water 1 c. tea infusion 


2 


c. sugar 1 c. strawberry juice if desired 



Dilute with cold water as needed. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 

1 pt. water 1 c. sugar 

3 lemons 1 orange 

1 qt. ice water 3^ can grated pineapple 

1 c. tea infusion 

Boil water and sugar. Test before serving as fruit will 
vary. 



126 TRIED AND TRUE 



Confections 



" Sweetmeats, messengers of prevailment in unhardened youth.'' 

— Shakespeare. 

FRENCH FO.NDANT 

1y% lbs. granulated sugar 1^ c. water 

M tsp. cream of tartar 

Stir till dissolved. Boil to 238 deg. Fahr. or soft ball test. 
Wash down several times during the cooking. Cool to about 
90 Fahr. Beat and when cream)' put in a stone jar and cover. 
Use after twenty-four hours, and it is very good after five or 
six days, at which time it has "aged". 

CHOCOLATE CREAHS 

With cream foundation make cones, let them stand several 
hours. Dip in coating chocolate. Place on waxed paper to 
harden. 

UNCOOKED CREAn FOUNDATION 

1 Qg% white 1 tbsp. flour 

Confectioners' sugar to thicken 

Mix and knead till stiff enough to shape. Use with all 
kinds of nuts and dates or figs. 

SEA FOAM CANDY 

3 c. brown sugar 1 c. water 

1 tbsp. vinegar 

Heat and boil till hard ball is formed. Pour onto two stiffly 
beaten whites. Beat till mixture holds its shape. Add one 
teaspoon of vanilla, one cup of nut meats. Drop in rough 
shape piles and cool. 



.CONFECTIONS 127 



CREAM FUDGE 

2 c. sugar ^ c. milk 

3 tbsp. cocoa 2 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Boil to a molasses test, or until the mixture will pile up as 
does molasses when dropped from the spoon. Add nuts if de- 
sired and beat till just stiff enough to put in the pan to cool 
and have it smooth. 

MARSHMALLOW FUDGE 

2 c. sugar % c. milk 

2 oz. chocolate 2 tbsp. butter 

1 c. marshmallows 1 tsp. vanilla 

Boil sugar, chocolate milk and butter tO' molasses test. 
Remove from fire, vanilla must be added. Beat and pour into 
pan with pieces of marshmallows on the buttered bottom. 

CARAMELS 

1 lb. coffee (A) sugar J^ c. milk 

Ji c. molassss M lb. chocolate 

Yi c. butter 1 tsp. vanilla 

M c. nuts if desired 

Boil all, except vanilla and nuts to 252 or 254 deg. Fahr. 
(soft ball test). Remove, add remaining ingredients. Cool 
slowly. 

PEANUT CUBES 

1 c. sugar 1 c. peanuts 

Melt sugar, remove from fire. Add nuts and pour on in- 
verted pan, shape and cut. 

PEPPERMINTS AND WINTERQREENS 

1 c. sugar 3 tbsp. water 

8 tsp. confectioners' sugar Flavoring 

Boil syrup up well once, pour unto confectioners' sugar. 
Flavoring. Bea,t and drop. 



128 TRIED AND TRUE 



CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

Peel of oranges 1 c. sugar 

Vz c. water Sugar to roll 

Boil, scrape and cut peel. Put into boiling syrup for ten 
minutes, roll and cool. 

PENUCHIO 

2 c. light brown sugar 1 c. cream 

1 c. chopped nuts J^ c. maple syrup 

Cook to 238 deg. Fahr. with little stirring and then beat till 
creamy. Add nuts at the last. 

SALTED NUTS 

PEANUTS OR ALMONDS 

1 lb. almonds 1 tbsp. butter 

1 or 2 tbsp. salt 

Blanch almonds, wipe. Melt butter in cake tin, add nuts 
and stir till each one shines. Salt and place in the oven, stir 
several times, remove when a delicate brown. 

Peanuts can be salted in same way. Remove jackets, but- 
ter to cover, salt to taste. 

CHOCOLATE CARAHELS 

Vi, box Knox gelatine 1 tsp. vanilla 

\yi c. milk 2Vz c. sugar 

J^ c. chopped nuts, pecans Wz squares chocolate 

Soak the gelatine in two-thirds cup of milk ten minutes. 
Put sugar and milk on stove and when dissolved add chocolate 
which has been melted. When boiling add gelatine and boil 
fifteen minutes. Allow to cool a little and stir until it thickens- 
Then add nuts and pour into pan which has been wet with cold 
water. When set, immerse pan in hot water an instant, loosen 
the edges, turn out and cut in squares and roll in confectioners' 
sugar. 



CONFECTIONS 129 



STUFFED CHERRIES 

Soak cherries, cut in halves, and stuff with fondant and 
nut or roll in fondant. 

FRENCH PRUNES 

Soak prunes, remove stones and stuff with fondant and 
nut meats. Roll in granulated sugar. 

STEAAED FIQS 

Steam till soft, cool and make lengthwise incision. Fill 
with marshmallow and nut meats. Serve in fancy paper cases 
if desired. 

CHOCOLATE STICKS 

Cover strips of bread with melted chocolate and nuts. 
Cool an hour. Serve with chocolate. 

TURKISH DELIGHT 

1 box Knox gelatine 1 lemon 

1 large juicy orange 1 lb. granulated sugar 

Soak the gelatine in two-thirds cup of cold water for five 
minutes. Put sugar on stove in two-thirds cup of cold water, 
and when it comes to a boiling point add the gelatine. Boil 
slowly but steadily twenty minutes, add the grated rind and 
juice of the orange and the juice of the lemon (there should be 
one-half large cup of fruit juice) . Wet tin with cold water 
and pour in the mixture to the depth of one inch. When firm- 
ly set immerse mould in warm water, turn out and cut in cubes 
and roll in confectioners' sugar to which has been added a tea- 
spoon of cornstarch. Vary^by using different fruit juices, fla- 
vorings and colorings. 



130 TRIED AND TRUE 



Invalid Cookery and Diets 



In preparing food for a patient or convalescent, the 
attending physician's advice otight to be asked and his sug- 
gestions carefully followed. Always have the dishes well- 
cooked and the food daintily served ; and these points cannot 
be over-estimated. It is now recognized that " the proper 
selection of food, both solid and fluid, is of as much importance 
as the use of medicaments." Because less exercise is taken, 
easily-digested food must be given, and small quantities given 
often are preferred to a large amount or to a variety of kinds 
only three times a day, as would be allowed with the well 
person. 

Fresh bread, fried foods, fatty meats and pork, liquors, 
lobsters, candies, sausages, spices, pastry, potted and pre- 
served meats, or fish are to be avoided in almost every case. 
Broths, soft cooked eggs, gruels, milk, toasts, jellies, custards, 
fruits and chicken can be used, with some exceptions. Baked 
potatoes are more easily digested than boiled ones, baked 
apples than raw ones, graham or entire wheat rather than 
white bread, and broiled or baked meats and fish rather than 
other kinds. 

In fevers and kidney troubles, the milk diet is often re- 
commended, and gruels, junket puddings, blancmanges, cream 
toasts, buttermilk, rice-milk, peptonized milk, albuminized 
milk, kumyss, nogs, and simple cream soups are variations. 

The value of buttermilk is realized more than ever, and 
the buttermilk tablets make it practical for those not able to 
purchase fresh buttermilk. With these tablets one can follow 
the simple directions, and with the fresh milk and the tablet 
make the buttermilk which contains just what the diseased 
body needs in many cases. 



INVALID COOKERY AND DIETS Vil 



In diabetes, all sugar and starch ought to be avoided, and 
this is also true in cases of rheumatism, in which disease all 
red meats, too, are often forbidden. In cases of nervous dis- 
orders and stomach troubles, the dietary should be simple and 
nutritious: lettuce, green edibles, simple fruits, grape juice, 
malted milk and meat juices are suggested, and starches ought 
to be discarded. Oranges and strawberries are two fruits often 
to be avoided in such a case. 

Of the red meats, broiled steak, or only the juice, and the 
lamb chop, also broiled, are to be first considered; and white 
fish is always preferred to the salmon or mackerel, for ex- 
ample. 

Coffee and tea must often be given up. by a patient. 

These few general suggestions are only to aid one in the 
case of the convalescent, or give a little help when we wish to 
think of a dainty to send to a neighbor, perhaps just free from 
the doctor's care, able to eat many things that are easily 
digested and with an appetite still needing a great amount of 
coaxing, that nutritious food may be taken and strength 
gained. 



132 TRIED AND TRUE 



Menus for Occasions 



" Wd sit to chat as well as e^t."— -Shakespeare. 
MENUS FOR FULL COURSE DINNER 



Sardine Canapes 

Julienne Soup 

Olives Radishes 

Oyster and Macaroni Croquettes 
Fillets of Halibut, Hollandaise Sauce 

Tomato Jelly, Potato Fritters 

Maryland Chicken, Asparagus Tips 

Lettuce Salad Cucumber Salad 

Sultana Rolls Ladies' Fingers 

Crackers Cheese 

Cafe Noir 



Little Neck Clams 

Brown Bread Sandwiches 

Consomme Crisped Crackers 

Oyster Bouchees 

Baked Stuffed Haddock, Dressed Lettuce 

Saddle of Mutton 

Lyonnaise Potato Brussels Sprouts 

Apricot Jelly 

Chocolate Ice Cream with Nuts Cake 

Coffee 



MENUS FOR OCCASIONS 133 



SIMPLER DINNER MENUS 

Consomme 

Broiled Steak with Fried Bananas 

Creamed Spinach Mashed Potato 

Lettuce Salad Cucumber Salad 

Coffee Mousse Macaroons 

Walnut Cake 

Cheese Wafers Coffee 

II 

Tomato Soup Bread Sticks 

Fried Fillets of Halibut, Cold Slaw 

Fricassee of Lamb 

Stuflfed Tomato Castle Potato 

Pineapple Salad Nut Salad 

Prune Whips Custard Sauce 

Wafers or Small Cakes 

COMPANY LUNCHEON MENUS 

I 

Grape Fruit in Glasses 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Halibut Croquettes, Dressed Lettuce 

Tournedos of Beef 

Currant Jelly Julienne Potatoes 

Caramel Parfaits Chocolate Cake 

Salted Nuts Cream Mints 

Coffee 

II 

Cream Cheese 

Brown Bread and Cucumber Sandwich 

Chicken and Tomato Bouillon 

Mayonnaise of Salmon 

Crab Meat Cutlets 

Potatoes au Maitre d' Hotel 

Banana Ice Cream Wafers 

Nuts 



134 TRIED AND TRUE 

THANKSGIVING MENUS 

I 

Plain Grape Fruit Pulp in Cups 

Oyster Patties 

Roast Turkey, Giblet Sauce 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Mashed White Potatoes, Thanksgiving Style 

Onions Stuffed with Nuts and Bake 

Squash Souffle 

Chicken Pie 

Chiffonade Salad 

Thanksgiving Pudding 

Vanilla Ice Cream with Peaches 

Black Coffee 

Nuts Orange Peel 



Oyster Bisque Pickles 

Moulded Halibut Castle Potatoes 

Chicken Timbales, White Sauce 

Roast Turkey, Mashed Potatoes 

Stuffed Onions Fried Cauliflower 

Cranberry Punch 

Crouton Salad 

Pumpkin Pie Golden Sauce 

Steamed Pudding 

Nuts Grapes 

Cheese Caft^ Noir 



AfA RKE TING HLVTS 1 3o 



Marketing Hints 



Proper provisions are absolutely necessary fur the best 
results in our cooking, and in this branch is the first source of 
true economy. In perishable supplies quantities are not pract- 
ical, and as some one has truly said, we must buy our expe- 
rience first. 

In choosing fish, if the eye is bright, the flesh firm and the 
smell sweet, we know that the fish is fresh. 

In, buying meats, consider the use and do not pay a good 
price for fat and bones, although these add to the flavor and 
are to be considered to a reasonable extent, and in beef a 
certain amount of fat mixed with the muscle gives the best 
flavor 

The ripeness of fruits and vegetables depends entirely on 
the time before their use 

In the different cuts of beef one finds the greatest variety, 
and it ought to be remembered that in the forequarter are the 
five prime ribs, the five chucks, both for roasts and the first 
mentioned the most desirable; in fact the chucks are better for 
small steaks and stews. The neck and sticking piece for 
mincemeat, the rattle-rand and brisket for corning, and the. 
shin for soup stock are all in this quarter. In the hind quarter 
are four divisions: the flank for corning, the round, the rump 
and the loin. The top of the round makes fair steaks, the 
bottom a cut for boiling, and the aitchbone a cut for a cheap 
roast and for stews. In the rump, both the face and back 
give good roasts and steaks, and the loin gives us the sirloin 
and the tenderloin. The tip of the sirloin is an excellent small 
roast, and in the first cut of the sirloin is some tenderloin, and 
both the first and second cuts are for roasts and steaks. In 
the sirloin roasts and steaks one pays for some bone, but for it 
gets a better flavor than in the rump often. 



136 TRIED AND TRUE 



Calendar of Food in Seasons 



Apples September to April 

ArtichoUes Winter Months 

Asparagus May and June 

Brussels Sprouts September to February 

Cauliflower Fall Months 

Cod All the year 

Celery Fall and Winter 

Cucumbers May to September 

Flounders All the year 

Halibut All the year 

Lobsters All the year 

Mackerel April to July 

Mushrooms All the year in large markets 

Peaches September 

Peas July and August 

Oysters September to May 

Smelts September to March 

Salmon May to September 

■ Scallops October to April 

Trout March to September 

Tautog July to September 

Shrimps April to September 

Tomatoes August to October 

Turkeys September to February 



TABLE SETTING AND SERVING 137 



Table Setting and Serving 



"All human history attests 
That happiness for man- — the hungry sinner, 
Since Eve ate apples, much depends on dinner." 

— Byron. 

In the average home of today the dinner consists of three 
courses, and if well prepared and neatly served, guests will 
enjoy such a meal ; and still there will be occasions when a 
more elaborate dinner is to be served, and the following sug- 
gestions may help at these times. 

Five, eight or even more courses are used, and for the 
first, the canap^ ; clams or oysters are suitable ; the soup next, 
then a fish course, a salad, the dessert, and lastly the cheese 
and coffee. An entrde can be served before both the fish and 
meat courses, or in one of these places, and a punch just 
before the meat, especially if game is served, and often two 
desserts — a pudding and then a frozen dish. The side dishes 
decrease as the number of courses increases. 

Understanding that the menu is chosen and that its 
preparation is not to be considered in this chapter, we next 
refer to the careful ordering, the second thing to ensure 
success if the dinner, or whatever the meal, is to be smoothly 
and consistently served. Often a person fails in this one point, 
and an extra dish here and the lack of a glass there, or silver 
placed at an angle of forty-five degrees, are defects which pre- 
sent themselves readily and cause confusion to detract from a 
well-composed menu or the most appetizing combination of 
viands. 

These general rules should be followed as closely as cir- 
■cumstances and conditions will allow. Always use a silence 
cloth, a cotton blanket is an inexpensive and quite satisfactory 



138 TRIED AND TRUE 



one ; then place the middle of a carefully ironed tablecloth 
over this in exactly the middle of the table, and all the sides 
and ends are sure to be true and equal. For every meal have 
some simple centrepiece, a simple doyley and a small fern will 
help to supply this need when neither the wild or the cut 
flowers can be obtained. Allow about eighteen inches for each 
" cover " or place, and directly in front of the chair place, an 
inch from the edge of the table, the service plate, at the right 
of this the knives needed and at the left the forks. The spoons 
are placed at the right of the knives, or if there is much silver 
to be used and limited space, the spoons can be put in front of 
the plate, with the handles toward the right. The general 
rule is to place the silver so that it can be taken one piece at a 
time from the outside as needed. The oyster fork and the 
spoon for the soup are two exceptions and are often at the 
right. Place the silver on either side of the plates at right 
angles with the edge of the table. The napkin ought to be 
placed at the left, [just beyond the forks, with the corner of 
single points in the lower right hand corner. At the point of 
the knives place the tumbler, and at the point of the forks, 
the butter plate or bread and butter plate, as the case may be. 
The service plate is removed with the soup plate, or after the 
first hot course, and all dishes should be put on at the right 
and removed from the left, unless it is expected that the one 
served is to help himself, in which case the dish is offered 
from the left, that the right hand can be easily used to reach 
the tray. When a person has eaten all that is desired of a 
course, the silver should be placed across the plate, about in 
the middle and parallel, if both the knife and fork are to be 
removed. 

When, at a luncheon, a fruit course is to be served last, 
the fruit plate, with a doyley, finger-bowl and fruit knife and 
spoon, may be placed in front of the guest, and then the 
doyley and finger-bowl should be slipped off by the guest and 
placed to the left, and is ready for use later. 

Nuts, olives and radishes can be offered during the courses 
and accepted, as one may wish. Flowers are placed often in 



TABLE SETTING AND SERVING 13i> 



front of each cover or across the napkin before the dinner is 
announced, and a single flower for the gentleman and more 
for the lady, and the place card and favors should be in front 
of the plate, as fancy indicates. 

The amount of so-called " agony " varies with each family, 
but one ought to always be considerate, thoughtful and polite, 
and apply " style '' according to conditions, and in the home 
have true family enjoyment and comfort at meal times. 



140 TRIED AND TRUE 



JUNKET 



Junket Tablets 

with pure milk and a little flavoring make ex- 
quisite desserts. The addition of various fruits 
will make the dessert still more delicious. Ice 
Cream made with Junket Tablets is unsur- 
passed for velvety smoothness and is easily 
digested. As a tempting, nourishing, retainable 
food for invalids and children, Junket is without 
a rival. 

10 Junket Tablets 10c 



Junket Brand 
Buttermilk Tablets 

Compressed lactic ferment culture prepared at 
the bacteriological department of Chr. Hansen's 
Laboratory, L openhagen, Denmark. Converts 
sugar of milk into lactic acid, rendering the milk 
palatable and healthful, and a preventive and 
curative for many intestinal disorders. 

15 Tablets 25c 

At grocers and druggists, or by mail direct from the 
manufacturers 



...CHR. HANSEN'S LABORATORY... 

Box 2165 — Little Falls, N. Y. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



141 




Make 
Your 0\^n 
Ice Cream 

And 

You Kno\^ 
It's Good 

Smoother, richer, better ice 
cream — more wholesome, 
purer ices — a more tempting 
variety of frozen desserts than 
you could possibly buy any- 
where can be made at home, 
in four minutes, with the 

Triple Motion 

White Mountain 

Ice Cream Freezer 

It stirs three ways at once by just 
turning the handle. This triple mo- 
tion produces an indescribahly line- 
grained, creamy result. Lumpy or 
coarse ice cream is an impossibility 
with the White Mountain freezer. 

Make ice cream often— itis whole- 
some when made at home, for you 
know what is in it. and with the White 
Mountain Freezer it is easy and rapid 
— f()Ur minutes at the light 
k_ ^.— »»^ turning handle, and ii is 

Frozen desserts are 
frequent and inexpensive luxuries in homes 
possessing a White Mountain Freezer. 

Frozen Dainties *' Free — A book for you 

Exact instructionsfor making Ice (ream, Ices, 

Sherbets, Frozen Puddings, Kiuits, etc. hend 

for it; you'll enjoy it 

The White Mounlain rreeier Co. 

Dept. 6, Nashua, N. H. 




142 



TRIED AND TRUE 



i 



HIGHEST IN HONORS 

Walter Baker & Co.'s 

ocoaiChocolate 



129 



Years of Constantly 
Increasing Sales 



Highest Awards In 
Europe and America 



A medical writer says — "The 
f use of a thoroughly reliable prep- 
aration of cocoa should be uni- \ 
versally encouraged, and it is the 
consensus of opinion among med- 
ical men as well as laboratory 
workers that the breakfast cocoa 
manufactured by Walter Baker 
& Co. Ltd., not only meets tlie 
indications, but accomplishes even 
more than is claimed for it. " 



f 



Registered 
U. S, i'vx. Office 



WALTER BAKER & CO. Ltd. 

DORCHESTER, MASS. 



Established 
1780 



TRIED AND TRUE 



143 










CHOICE 



1bou8e JFurni8bin08 



Nc 



FOREIGN and DOMESTIC. 



O other house in this country can show such 
a variety. French Fry Pans ; Jelly Sieves ; 
Enamelled, Tin, and Copper Moulds — more than 
X2CO patterns and different sizes ; Souffi^ Dishes ; 
Coffee Mills ; Pepper Mills ; Table Coffee Roasters ; 
Coffee Pots and Machines ; Pot au feu ; Shirred 
Egg Dishes ; Casseroles ; Marmites ; Salad Forks 
and Spoons ; Salad W ashers ; Cook's Knives ; 
Hateletts ; Vegetable Cutters ; Paste Cutters ; 
Ramikens ; Parisien Potato Cutters ; Wood Cook- 
ing-School Spoons ; also, a large variety of English 
and German Culinary Goods. 

We call special attention to our Plate-Warmers, 
to use with cliarcoal and for register. 

English Knife Machines clean from Iv^o to eight 
knives at a time. Also, Knife Boards. 

Fireplace Fittings, Andirons, Fenders, Fire Sets, 
Brushes, and Bellows. 



Ihe Original 

WATERMAN 

Stores 



F. A. WALKER & CO. 

House Furnishers, 

Importers —Wholesalers — Retailers. 

Established, 1839. 



83=85 CORNHILL, BOSTON, MASS. 
SCOLLAY SQ. SUBWAY STATION. 







^ 




144 



TRIEV AND TRUE 



T\^o Handy Articles 

For Your Gas Range 



THE VULCAN TOASTER 

Can be used on any kind of a stove. 
Four slices of bread can be toasted 
at one time. The finished toast is 
positively free of all foreign and 
disagreeable tastes, as the bread 
never comes directly in contact 
with the flame. Tea or coffee may 
be prepared on the top .of the 
Toaster without interfering with 
the toasting. Four slices of bread 
can be toasted in two minutes. The 
outside of the slice is toasted evenly 
from edge to edge — a delicious golden brown While the outside is 
crisp and snappy, the inside of the slice is as soft and palatable as a 
freshly-baked biscuit. Owing to the use of the square radiator, obnoxious 
gases and products of combustion are prevented coming in contact with 
the bread. For this reason, the Vulcan is the only Toaster upon which 
the finished toast is free of all foreign tastes. 




The Unperforated Strip Prevents 
Burning 



No. 115 



THE 

VULCAN CAKE 



GRIDDLE 




The only Griddle on which it is pos- 
sible to prepare perfect pancakes over 
the flame of a gas range or hot plate. 
Four cakes can be cooked at one time ; 
browns the cakes evenly and quickly. 
The ordinary Griddle cannot be used 
on a gas range or hot plate, as the heat produced is concentrated within a 
limited area. With the ordinary Griddle, the cakes nearest the centre 
burn, while those further removed cook very slowly. The heat deflector 
in the Vulcan Cake Griddle distributes the flame. Openings provided 
near the top draw the flame upwards, equally distributing the heat over 
the entire cooking top. Cakes cook equally as well at the extreme edge 
of the griddle as at the centre. Diameter of griddle, 11 inches ; depth, 
23^ inches. 

For Sale ar all Gas compaoles, Depariment and Hardware Stores 



Manufactured by 



WILLIAM M. CRAINE CO., 16-15-20 W. 32d St., NCW Yorh 



TRIED AND TRUE 



145 




Grape Juice 



It is just the pure juice of the choicest Concord 
* Grapes transferred from the clusters to new 
bottles without change or addition of any kind- 
That's why it is the choice of the careful house- 
wife, the thoughtful mother and discriminating 
hostess, for serving at meal-time or between meals 
as a beverage, or in the form of an unfermented 
punch or as a dessert. 

If your dealer doesn't keep Welch's, send $3 00 for 
trial dozen pints, express prepaid east of Omaha. 
Booklet of forty delicious ways of using Welch's 
Grape Juice, free. Sample 3 oz. bottle by mail, 10c. 

The Welch Grape Juice Co. 

Westfield, New York 



146 TRIED AND TRUE 



Save Fuel, Time, Strengfth 

By Usin g" WEAR-EVER" Aluminum Utensils 

" Wear=Ever " Aluminum Cooking Utensils are not 
only light in weight, dainty, clean, delightful to use, non- 
poisonous and durable, but they also save fuel, because, in 
aluminum, the heat quickly spreads — spreads to every part 
of the utensil, and also, when heated, only a moderate fire 
is needed to keep them hot. Thus used, "Wear-Ever" 
Utensils do not scorch, and the saving in gas and coal bills 
is considerable— you can put the difference into better food. 

Time is saved because it is not necessary to stir food continually 
in order to have it cook nicely in " Wear=Ever" Aluminum Utensils. 
Strength is. saved because Aluminum is at least one-third lighter than any 
other metal used in manufacturing cooking utensils. 

Then, too, no metaUic poisoning is possible if aluminum ware is 
used ; whereas there is danger of poisoning from copper, brass or plated 
ware. There is no enamel to chip off in the food nor to leave a place in 
the bottom of the utensil which will burn the food readily. 

" Wear-Ever " Aluminum Utensils do not corrode or become 
rusty. They are as near indestructible as any utensils can be, for they 
are solid metal throughout 

Heat evenly applied is necessary to perfect cookery. Aluminum 
so absorbs and holds heat that it produces even heat and therefore the 
best results in the cooking of foods that contain milk and eggs. 

"Wear=Ever" Utensils insure the even temperature of food 
being cooked and the even " temper " of the person doing the cooking. 

It is not an unusual thing nowadays to see bright, shiny cooking 
utensils in some kitchen that look as if they had been bought the day 
before, but which have been in daily service for nine years. 

The same utensils in tin plate or enamel would — well you know 
just about how they would look if they were to be found at all in a kitchen. 

" Wear=Ever " Aluminum Utensils are not expensive. Their first 
cost is not much greater than that of good grade enamel utensils, and 
when the fact that they will last a lifetime is considered, they are by far 
the cheapest utensils on the market. "\A/PAP C\/rD" 

Utensils bearing the " Wear=Ever " trade- VVtA!\"LVLt\ 

mark are made by the makers of the metal^they 
are made to give satisfaction for a lifetime. Al- 
ways look for the trade-mark. 

For booklet. " Aluminum Kacts," and Catalogue TAG 

illustrating 1!25 different styles and sizes, drop a postal __; _r, 

card to \ >k . 

TheAluminum Cooking Utensil Co. x^| 

Pittsburg. Pa. TRADEMARK 





TRIED AND TRUE 



147 




VEVVE CHAFF ARD 

Pure Olive Oil 

BOTTLED IN FRANCE 

IN HONEST BOTTLES 

FULL QUARTS 
FULL PINTS 
FULL HALF^PINTS 

S, S, PIERCE CO,, Boston 

Sole Agents for the United States and Canada 



BELLS SEASONING-^ 

40Years of Success;40Years pref eired by I 
ChefsXooks £/'Housekeepers/(?r ^^~~^ 
delicately flavoring Dressings 
forPoultfg,Game,Meats,Fish. 
Insist onBELCS the original. 

MEAT OR TURKEY DRESSING (equally good when baked and 
served separately) . Toast 7 or 8 slices of white bread. Place in a 
deep dish, adding butter size of an egg. Cover with hot water to 
melt butter and make bread right consistency. ADD AN EVEN 
TABLESPOON OF BELL'S SEASONING, an even teaspoon salt, and 
4 slices of salt pork, fried to a crisp and chopped fine. When well 
mixed, stir in 1 or 2 raw eggs. 

NOTE. — The above dressings may be improved, to some tastes, by adding chopped nuts of any kind — ■ 
chestnuts, peanuts, walnuts, etc. Oysters also give a fine flavor. 

OF YOUR GROCER. The small, or 10c can will flavor the dressing for 100 lbs. 
of meat, game, fish or poultry ; the large, or 25c can for 300 lbs. The 1-lb. and 
S-lbs cans are purchased by all first-class hotels and restaurants. 

For Delicious Sausages, Flavor with Bell's Sausage Seasoning 

1381 




148 



TRIED AND TRLTE 




MINUTE, 
TAPIOCA 

Makes a dessert not only dainty and enjoy- 
able, but possessing great food value. One 

of the best known expert chemists in the 
country analyzed Minute Tapioca fourteen 
years ago, when it was first put on the mar- 
ket, and wrote of it as follows : 

Gentlemen. I have examined your Minute Tapioca 
and find it a triumph of new science, a pure and perfect 
article, rich in nutriment, readily digested and deli- 
cious. Yours respectfully, 

WiLLARD H. Morse, 
Consulting Chemist, Westfield, N. J. 

This is a rare instance in which a scientist 
becomes enthusiastic and praises the arti- 
cle tested. So much for Minute Tapioca's 
value — now a word as to its convenience. 

IT REQUIRES NO SOAKING, 
but is, like the Minuteman, always ready. Quickly cooked, 
never soggy, gummy or lumpy, but light and dehcious. 

A Package Makes 6 Quarts. 

Ask. your grocer for it. Look for the 
MINUTBMAN on the package. 

MINUTE TAPIOCA COMPANY, Orange, Mass. 



miNUTE 



<i> 



IP"- 



.^^^v^''"if■««^/« 




Try this Receipt 
for Coffee Jelly 

Place one envelope of Minute 
Gelatine, one half cup of sugar 
and a pinch of salt in a pint cup, 
fill the cup with boiling coffee, 
stir thoroughly one minute, strain 
into a mold and set to cool. Serve 
with cream and sugar. 

Besides being the richest, purest, 
best gelatine on the market, 

INUTE 
GELATINE 

comes already measured, each 
package containing four envelopes. 
Each envelope makes one pint, a 
whole package making one half 
jjallon of dessert. 
The receipt here given is one of 35 tested receipts published in the 
Minute Cook Book, sent free. 

ASK YOUR GROCER FOE MIXUTK GEL.^TIXE .\XD DECLINE SUBSTITUTES. 
Look for the Minuteman on the package. 

MINUTE TAPIOCA COMPANY, ORANGE, MASS. 



PLAIN 

GELATINE 

ALL MEASURED 



TRIED AND TRUE 



149 



FLEISCHMANN'S 

COMPRESSED YEAST 

HAS NO EQUAL 



KITCHEN BOUQUET 



GIVES A DELICIOUS FLAVOR AND RICH COlOfi TO SOUPS. SAUCES, GRAVIES ETC. 



USED BY LEADING CHEFS AND 
EMINENT TEACHERS OF COOKERY 



SAMPLE FREE' 



THE PALISADE MF& CO 

Z65 CLINTON AVt. WEST HOBOKEN.N.J 



By CAROLYN PUTNAM WLBBLR 
Five hundred recipes with practical culinary suggestions 

price, 75 dents 



For Sale : Prince's Book Store, 1 08 Merrimack Street, Lowell ; 

or, sent postpaid, Miss Carolyn Putnam Webber, 

" Hillside," Bedford, Mass. 



i:,0 



TRIED AND TRUE 



^^^mm^mm. 






fm 



im 



-RaisiJi 



•Ja^ 



FLOUR 



A Biscuit Flour A Cake Flour 
A Griddle Cake Flour 



Its high quality and exact composition 
gives uniform and perfect results. If you 
are interested in good cookery, send for 
booklet. "Reliable Recipes" free 



our 



for the asking. Try some of the rules and 



A SURPRISE AWAITS YOU 

RELIABLE FLOUR CO., BOSTON, MASS. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



161 



CO NGRESS »*S 



jO^|S] 



ipWDER 



An absolutely pure Grape Cream 
Tartar Baking Powder of great- 
est efficiency and health-conduc- 
ing quality=^-^^==--= 



It is entirely free from alum, ammonia, 
tartaric acid, phosphate, and all objection- 
able substances. For your protection the 
government compels the printing of the formula on 
Baking Powder labels. Look at the formula on your 
Baking Powder, and then you will ask grocers for 
CONGRESS Baking Powder, the pure Grape Cream 
Tartar Baking Powder. 



SLADE'S -l^s 

SPICES 

Go further and produce 
better results than other 
spices. SLADE'S are 
Pure and Good. 

Ensure good results by 

using SlADE's. Ask grocers 

D. ^ L. Slade Company 




Boston 



162 TRIED AND TRUE 



" A Simple Test " 

for showing the difference in strength and flavor of 
different Vanilla extracts will be sent free on request. If 
you have never used Miner's Vanilla, send two-cent 
stamp for postage on a FREE sample, and then, by 
" A Simple Test," prove to your complete satisfaction 
that 

Miner's Standard Vanilla 

is much stronger and finer flavored, and therefore goes 
farther and costs less, than any other Vanilla you have 
ever used. 

B. F. Miner, F. S. Sc. (London), who, after years of 
research and experiment, perfected the process by which 
this remarkable extract is made, was elected to a Life 
Fellowship in the Society of Science, Letters and Art of 
London, for Eminence in Practical Science, in recogni- 
tion of his achievements in the making of Vanilla from 
Vanilla Beans, 

Carolyn Putnam Webber 

Teacher of Cookery, says of Miner's Extracts: "After 
having tried many kinds of flavoring extracts, I have for 
the past six years used Miner's, because they give the 
best results. In almost constant use in the home and 
class-room, and on the lecture platform, I have proved 
them to be all that is claimed for them." 

Miner's Standard Extracts 

Are made, and guaranteed under the Food and Drugs 
Act, June 30, 1906, No. 3712, only by 

The Toiletine Co, 

Montague, Mass, 



TRIED AND TRUE 163 



WASHBLRN-CROSBY CO. 



Gold Medal Flour 



154 TRIED AND TRUE 




pus 



;aJUIDCOFFE£ 
Remember 
The Name 

THEY SWEAR BY IT 

The girl behind the stove endorses •• Puri=tan- 

ated " coffee. Where it is used no fault is found. 
" Puri-tan-ated " is pure, genuine coffee. It has 
been cleansed and purified by the removal of the 
bitter-tasting, cellulose tissue, which contains a form 
of poisonous tannic acid. It can be cooked enough 
to get all the coffee goodness out of the berry, because 
there are no obnoxious elements to detract from the 
coffee flavor. The brew made from " Pui=tan=ated " 
is as good warmed over the next day as when freshly 
prepared. 

At reliable grocers in 1-lb. cans, granulated 

CLARK, COGGIN & JOHNSON GO. 

Coffee Importers and Roasters 

Boston, Mass. 




Demonstration Lecture Courses Catering and Special Orders 

Practice Classes Private Lessons 



MISS CAROLYN PUTNAM WEBBER 

ITeacber of Coof^er^ 

" Hillside ■■ 
Teleptione Connection Bedford. Massachusetts 



NDLX 



Almond Charlotte Rusae Ill 

Apple Charlotte 108 

Compote 113 

Dumpling ., a6 

Flawn 95 

Krilters 47 . 

IQ Rice 109 

Manhattan 113 

Meringue 112 

Pralin(5es 107 

Snow 112 

Steamed Ill 

Apricot Souffle 97 

Asparagus Soup' 14 

AspioJelly .■ 53 



Uaked Fish k la Carleton 19 

Haddock 18 

Banana Island 108 

Bavarian Cream 108 

Beans, Pressed 50 

Rarebit 54 

Beef, Balls 24 

Camelon 25 

Casserole of 26 

B'illet ii la Napoli 25 

Olives 26 

Pressed 30 

Ragout 25 

Scalloped 25 

Spiced 26 

ViennaStyle 27 

Biscuit, Princess 122 

Biscuits , Baking Powder 66 

Pin Wheel 66 

Bisque, Clam 16 

Ojster 16 

Blancmange, Chocolate 110 

IrishMoss 106 

Bobotee 30 

Boston Delight 100 

Bouch^ea, Chicken 94 

Oyster 94 

Sweet 95 

Bouillon, Clam 16 

Brambles 92 

Bread, Brown 62 



Bread, Entire Wheat 61 

Fried 67 

Nut 62 

Rye 61 

Southern Spoon 66 

Sweedish 63 

White Wheat 60 

Brioche, Holland 62 

Paste 63 

Buns, Glazed Currant 64 

HotCross 60 

Butter, Cups 78 

Lemon 34 

Maitre d' Hotel 34 

Nun's 116 

C 

Cake, Angel 79 

Aunt Betsey 79 

Cherry 78 

Chocolate 80 

Christmas 76 

Cocoanut Tea 96 

Cornstarch 76 

Date 79 

Delicate 74 

Dreamy Sponge 76 

Exquisite 74 

Fig 77 

Foundation 73 

Florida Nut 77 

Ginger 78 

Gold 80 

Hot Water Sponge 73 

Italian 75 

Jelly Roll 80 

Lady Baltimore 76 

Lily 74 

Mocha 76 

Mother's Fruit 77 

Nut 75 

Orange '. 74 

Princeton Orange 74 

Silver 78 

Simplicity 80 

Sponge 73 

St. Valentine 78 

Canapes, Caviare 9 

Valentine 10 



Caramels, Plain 127 

Chocolate 128 

Carrots, Glazed 39 

Cauliflower, Fried 39 

Cecils 30 

Celery and Tomato Purie 16 

Cream Soup 15 

Brown Soup , 13 

Charlotte Russe 110 

CheeaeCrlsps 17 

Ramekins 51 

Souffle 54 

Souffle with Pastry 92 

Straws 91 

Toast with Bacon 64 

Cherry Russe 110 

Cherries, Stuiled 129 

Chestnuts en Casserole 47 

Chicken, Bouch^es 94 

Creamed 52 

Maryland 28 

Timbales 44 

Soup 13 

Chocolate 125 

Blancmange 110 

Creams 126 

Moulds 109 

Sticks 129 

Whips 104 

Chops au Figaro 28 

Kn Papillotte 27 

Lamb, Ji la Catalane 27 

Cocoa 124 

Cocoanut Mould .- 104 

Cocktail, Oyster 9 

Codfiah Pufl 46 

Roll 20 

Souffl(5 49 

Coffee 124 

Cakes 61 

Creams 114 

Jelly 107 

Gond^s 95 

Cookies, Boston 86 

Cornstarch 86 

Hermits 84 

Luncheon 86 

Nut 84 

Reliable 88 

Springfield 84 

Sugar Ginger 86 

Thick Molasses 86 

Corn, Reliable Cakes 67 

Soup 16 

Timbales 45 

Cordial, Pineapple and Strawberry . 10 

Coup Suzanne 120 

Strawberry 121 

Cream Baskets 95 



Cream Horns 92 

Puffs 110 

Rings 110 

Crisped Crackers 16 

Crisps, Cornmeal 66 

Lemon 93 

Croquettes, Fish 47 

Meat 46 

Salmon 46 

Croustades 48 

Croutons 16 

Custards, Caramel 107 

Soft 107 

Cutlets, Lamb 27 

Pork 29 

D 

Date Shape 107 

Dates with Cream 109 

Doughnuts, Plain 88 

Raised 87 

Dressings, Cream 65 

French 55 

Mayonnaise 55 

Turkey 31 

Dumplings 28 

E 

Eggs, Baked 42 

Creamed 43 

Deerfoot Shirred 41 

Golden Rod 42 

In Nest 41 

Omelet 40 

Planked 42 

Scotch 43 

Scrambled 43 

Spanish 42 

Stuffed 42 

Timbales 44 

F 

Figs, Steamed 129 

Fillet & la Soufiie 49 

In Ramekins 48 

Fillings, Chicken 94 

Cream 95 

Fruit , 76 

Lemon 93 

Maple Sugar 82 

Orange 83 

Orange 91 

Oyster 94 

Finnan Haddie 20 

Pish Turbans in Batter 48 

Florentines gg 

Flume Flannel Cakes 68 

FrappS, Orange us 

French Cream 106 

Fondant i2(i 

Prunes 129 



Fritters, Apple 47 

Peach 47 

Pineapple 47 

Washington 46 

Frostings, Boiled 81 

Blended 81 

Caramel 1^2 

Confectioners' 81 

Cream 81 

Creamy 82 

Marshmallow 82 

Mocha 83 

Orange 82 

Tutti Frutti 83 

Fudge, Cream 127 

Marshmallow 127 

G 

Gems, Entire Wheat 63 

Graham 66 

Gingerbread, Fairy 86 

Sponge , 87 

Grape Fruit Jelly 10 

Juice Sponge Ill 

Grenadines 27 

GriddleCakes 69 

Rice 67 

H 

Halibut k la Flamande 18 

Au Lit 20 

Cutlets 19 

Moulded 20 

Turbans 19 

Ham and Eggs, Creamed 51 

Mousse S2 

Hearts and Rounds 79 

Hors d'Oeuvre of Shrimps 10 

Ice Cream, Banana 119 

Caramel 119 

Cofeee 119 

Ginger 120 

Junket 121 

Philadelphia 119 

Pineapple 121 

Strawberry 119 

Vanilla 119 

Imperial Sticks 17 

J 

Jelly, Coffee 107 

Kurnquat Ill 

Roll 80 

burprise 107 

Jolly Boys 68 

Julienne Suup 12 

Julep, Mint 124 

Jumbles, Chocolate 86 



Kaiser >Semm«ln 61 

Kidgeree ...' 52 

Kurnquat Jelly Ill 

L 

Ladies' Fingers 78 

Lamb Chops t la Papillotte 27 

Au Figaro 28 

Cutlets 27 

Rechauffe 28 

Sauted Fillet 28 

Stew 2S 

Lemon, Butter 34 

Syrup 125 

Lettuce, Swedish 9 

Liver, Broiled 29 

Lobster, Broiled Live 22 

i la Newburg 22 

Loaf , Prune 67 

Veal 29 

M 

Macaroon Cream 106 

Macaroni, Creamed 51 

Delmonico 51 

Rarebit 53 

Madeleines 77 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 34 

Maraschino Cloves 93 

Marshmallows, Rolled los 

MeatSouftl^ 31 

Mousse, Ctiffee 120 

Chocolate 120 

Ham 62 

Muffins, Berkshire 65 

Fried Rye 69 

Graham 65 

Oatmeal 66 

Twin Mountain G4 

Mutton Balls 30 

N 

Nut Rnsse no 

Sticks 86 

Nuts, Salted 128 



Omelet, Bread 40 

Egg 40 

Fruit 41 

Pineapple 41 

Soubise 41 

Onions, Stuffed 39 

Orange Float 109 

FrappC 118 

Peel Candied 128 

Pudding 97 

Soufll^ 98 

Oysters 4 I'Astor Jl 

£1 la Newburgh 48 



Oysters Ji laThorndike 21 

Bisque IG 

Bouchi^es 94 

Cocktail 9 

Escalloped 54 

Louisanne^ 21 

Panned 22 

Pie .' 96 

P 

Parfaits, Angel 122 

4. la Carlos 123 

Maple 132 

Silver 120 

Paste, Plain 89 

PufE 89 

Patties, Shrimp 95 

Scallop 96 

Pea, Sonp 15 

' Timbales 45 

Peach, Delight 103 

Fritters 47 

Pralines 93 

Sherbet 121 

Peanut Cubes 127 

Peppers, Stuffed 39 

Peppermint 127 

Penuchio 128 

Pie, Cocoanut 90 

Chocolate Custard 90 

Fig 90 

Franipan 90 

Mince 92 

Pumpkin 91 

Veal and Oyster 96 

Pineapple Cot dial 10 

Cups 93 

Fritters 47 

Ice Cream 121 

Souffl<5 112 

Planked Eggs 42 

Fish 20 

Steak 24 

Pop-overs 63 

Graham 64 

Pork, Cutlets 2il 

Potato, Chamberry' 38 

Chateau 37 

Creamed 38 

Delmonico 49 

Duchess 37 

French Fried SB 

Golden Rod •...■.. .i38 

Julienne '..'..v. -'38 

Mashed 37 

Puff 49 

Waldorf ., 37 

Praline Powder 93 

Puddings Si I'Adrea Ill 

Almond 9S 



Pudding aux Amandes 99 

Baked Indian 102 

Chocolate 101 

Chocolate'Bread 100 

Christmas 101 

Cottage 98 

Date 100 

Delmonico 98 

Delmont 102 

February .• 101 

Fruit 99 

Junket 113 

Lemon 114 

Log Cabin 112 

Marshmallow 112 

Orange 97 

Popcorn 103 

Tapioca 103 

Thanksgiving 99 

Steamed Chocolate 100 

Steamed Graham 103 

Puffs,Cream 110 

Raspberry 94 

Punch, Cherry 125 

Cranberry 122 

Fruit 126 

Grape 125 

Pineapple 125 

Q 

Queen's Dainty 106 

R 

Ramekins k la Stuy vesant 50 

Cheese 62 

Fillets in 48 

Rarebit, Bean 64 

Macaroni 53 

Welch 63 

Rice, Patched 52 

Rolls. French 64 

German 62 

Salad 71 

Sandwich 71 

Surprise 67 

Rusks, Tea 65 

Almond Charlotte Ill 

Russe, Charlotte 110 

Cherry 110 

Nut 110 

S 

Salad. Banana 57 

Berkshire 66 

Chicken Jelly 57 

Chiffonade 68 

Crouton 58 

EgK 57 

German Apple 58 

German Tomato 56 

Grape FTuit 68 



Salad, II ungarian 57 

Italian 56 

Jellied Toriiato B6 

Knickerbocker ■ 58 

Luncheon 57 

Potato 57 

Russiiin 57 

Sardine 56 

Thorndike 56 

Salmon Croquettes 46 

Ui^chauffe 51 

Surprise 29 

Timbales 4S 

Sandwiches, Brunswick 70 

Club 71 

Creamed CliicUen 70 

Lunclieon 70 

Mosaic 71 

Reception 71 

Ribbon 71 

Sardine 70 

Sardines au Maire 10 

Hreaded 21 

Sauces, Almond 116 

Bechamel 35 

Brown 33 

Caramel 117 

Chocolate 115 

Cream 34 

Custard HO 

Espagnole 35 

Figaro 35 

Foamy 110 

French Hollandaise 32 

German 117 

Golden Rod 34 

Henriette 35 

Ketchup 33 

Lemon 116 

Liquid 115 

Maraschino 93 

Milk 33 

Mousseline 116 

Mushroom 34 

Peach 116 

Sabayon 117 

Soubise 38 

Spanish 33 

Tartar 35 

Tomato 33 

Vanilla 116 

Scallops, Fried 22 

Mock 20 

Patties 95 

Sea Foam 126 

Shepherd's Pie 50 

Sherbets, Fruit 121 

Lemon 121 

Peach 122 



Shortcake, Nottingham 102 

Prune 103 

Shrimp, Hors d'Oeuvre 10 

In Tomato Cases 11 

Patties 95 

Wiggle 48 

Smelts, Fried 21 

Souffli', Apricot 97 

Cheese 54 

Cocoanut 102 

Codfish 49 

Cold Meat 51 

Cracker 17 

Cupid's 99 

Meat 31 

Orange 98 

Pineapple 112 

Squash 39 

Vanilla 106 

Soup, Asparagus 14 

Brown Celery 13 

Chicken 13 

Cream of Celery 15 

Cream of Corn 15 

Cream of Pea 16 

Creole 13 

Golden 14 

Julienne 12 

Mock Bisque 14 

Royal 15 

Tomato 14 

Spanish Cream 109 

Spinach ^ r Henriette 31 

And Kgg :« 

Squash, Baked 39 

SoufBiS 39 

Steak, Planked 24 

Hamburg 26 

Salisbury 25 

Stock, Brown 13 

White 13 

Sweedish Lettuce 9 

Sweetbread, Broiled 31 

Syrup, Lemon 22 



Tapioca, Cocoanut 113 

. Cream 108 

Maple 113 

Prune 105 

Tarts, Calv6 94 

Cream 92 

Marlone 91 

Orange 91 

Vienna 94 



Tea 

Timbales, Cases . 

Chicken 

Corn 

Egg 



125 
50 
44 
46 
41 



Timbales, Imperial 46 

Pea 46 

Ring 45 

Salmon 45 

Tomato and Corn ... . 11 

Cream Toast 51 

Soup 14 

Stuffed 38 

Virginia Style 38 

Turkish Delight 129 

U 

Uncooked Cream Foundation 126 



Veal Loaf. 
Pie ..., 



/yCA,<■t'^y^'^^tl^ 



Vol-au-Vent 94 

Violet Cream 106 

W 

Wafers, Date 87 

Quaker 85 

Rolled. 85 

RolledWalnut 87 

Waffles, Rice 68 

WelchRarebit 53 

Whips, Chocolate 104 

Prune 106 

Wintergreena 127 



9(i Zwiebach . 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



