
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



HC 35A(I U 



I 



Food 

'servation 



mt 




Diciitizedbv VJ 



^X.^, Qjjj 






f-^ri^^ 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



I f 



/^ nJx^uuuuL. 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Food Preservation 



W 1185 






^>* V 



THIS BOpk iffW intJiided " I 
for puBiic s^le,, au« ha^^^ 
been prepared for distrihuddfi to 
those who may be interested in 
the subjects of which it treats. 



OX 



Issued by 
The National Association for the Promotion of Public Health 

/' ' New Yo rk ' 

1909 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



liHI 



5§f5N;]e5^ 



r>^^ 



... ^f C 1 2 1918 



v\ 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



< 

a: 





^ 






S- 






^ 






0^ 






c 






CO 






fc 


i 




ft] 


<u 


2? 


N 


^^ 


Si 


U} 




3 




^ 


o 


o 


o 


J: 


>. 


a: 


o3 


c: 






CO 


a> 


CM 




• S 


1 


g 


g 






CN 


*^ 


"C 


CO 


'TJ 


'TJ 


.s 


O 


CO 


cs 


^ 


? 


'^ 


J 


.2 


v.. 


g 


OC) 


1 


u 


J* 


1 


CO 


QU 




Jn 



Page 
7, 19, 27, 28, 29, 36, 37 
6 



7 
13 



. . 11 
. . 11 
12,38 
. . 17 
. . U 
. . 46 
. . 13 



.... 29 

6, 14, 18 

15, 16, 37 



6 



No. 104 24 

27 

36 



Chemical Action of, 

Hurty, Dr. J. H 

Kleber, Dr. demons, . 



8, 12 
. . 35 
. . 33 



Digitized by 



Google 



l^DEX—CdnttntKd 

Page 

Kedzie, Dr. Frank» 41 

Kremers, Professor Edward, 41 

Mason, Glen F., 30 

Mueller, Sebastian, 40 

"Poison Squad:'' 

Dr. Wiley's Experiment, 20 

Criticism of Method, 21 

Preservatives: 

Object of, 5, 7, 30, 37 

Early Method of, 5, 27 

Methods Compared, 6, 15, 27 

Natural, in Fruits, 10 

Necessity of, ... * 30, 37 

Pure Food Law, 18, 36 

Remsen Board: 20 

Personnel of, 22 

Questions to, 23 

Findings of, • 23 

Authorities Consulted by, 25, 46 

Spices: 

Properties of, 35 

Essential Oils of, 27, 33, 37 

Effect of, 8, 33, 35 

Classed as Drugs, 14, 38 

Sharpies, Dr. S. P., 35 

Smith, Dr. E. E., 13, 21, 36 

Vaughan, Prof. Victor C, 42 

Wiley, Dr. H. W., 12, 20, 39 



Digitized by 



Google 



Foreword 

Around the subject of proper food pres- 
ervation there recently has been waged 
a controversy that is not sufficiently im- 
partial or unbiased by personal considera- 
tion to be of real educational value to the 
public at large. The modern method of 
preparing food for public consumption is 
so new that even the latest scientific works 
on dietetics contain little or no allusion to 
it, and it is to supply that lack in non- 
technical language that this volume is 
issued, based upon the latest scientific ex- 
periments and data. In searching the 
literature of the subject all discussion 
that is founded upon guesswork or opin- 
ion has been eb'minated. 

New York, August, 1909. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



; DEC 12 1918 ^ , 



Food Preservation 

npHE question of proper food preser- 
vation is one that is of vital inter- 
est to every consumer, but, unfortunately, 
it is one that has recently been more or 
less befogged by partial and selfish com- 
mercial interests and by the heat of con- 
troversy. 

From the moment of generation of either 
fruit, vegetable or flesh there is gradual 
progress toward maturity and thence to 
decay. The object of a preservative in 
foods is to arrest that decay and to hold 
stationary until needed those materials 
which are intended for human consump- 
tion. In other words, it is the safe bank- 
ing of food products. 

The original method of preservation, 
particularly of flesh products, after the 
primitive salting and drying, was that 
known to the Egyptians when they used 
the essential oils of spices for the preserva- 
tion of their mummies. With very slight 



Digitized by 



Google 



changes, this is the method that has come 
down to the present day in what is ordi- 
narily known as the "home" method of 
preservation, except that to the essential 
oils of spices has been added vinegar, the 
whole, with the process of cooking, form- 
ing a condimental method of preserva- 
tion. Cooking is chemistry, and the 
preservative employed, leaving aside all 
question of technicalities, is acetic acid and 
the essential oils of spices. A distinction 
should be kept in mind between what may 
be called * 'canned'' goods, which by the 
Appert process — heat, sterilization and 
hermetic sealing — require no other pre- 
servative, and condimental substances, 
such as catsup, jams, preserves and jellies. 
The preparation of the latter, unless a 
preservative is used, requires heavy boiling 
in open kettles, thus increasing oxidization 
and reducing the whole to a pulpy mass 
which has lost its original form, color and 
taste. The restoration of color and taste 
is the mission of condiments, to which also 
is added the preservative qualities of the 
condiments used. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Perhaps the greatest step forward in the 
preservation of material was made when 
Lord John Lister, the eminent Scotch sur- 
geon, discovered the septic action of mat- 
ter, and it is this fact that has been taken 
advantage of and worked out by all 
chemists. The working of the law is that 
if you would prevent decay you must 
forestall the tendency thereto, and this 
tendency is found in the normal presence 
of bacteria. The thing that will over- 
come this tendency to deterioration must 
necessarily be the employment of some 
agent having either a prophylactic or 
antiseptic quality. In plain language, 
the preservative, to be a preservative, 
must hold within itself the power of de- 
stroying the bacteria without injury to the 
ingredients or component parts of the 
fruit, vegetable or flesh to be preserved, 
which, if left to themselves, would go 
through the necessary processes to final 
dissolution. We are, therefore, forced to 
the conclusion that if a spice preserves 
an apple the spice must have a sufficient 
power to destroy or retard the development 



Digitized by 



Google 



of the bacteria in the apple that would pro- 
duce decay, or that might find entry there 
by contact or from the air. If decay has 
already begun in even the slightest degree, 
then the spice must have the antiseptic 
power of offsetting and destroying the 
further work of the bacteria that had begun 
operations. 

Heat and the exclusion of air, as well as 
any condiment used in sufficient quantity, 
will act as a preservative and do the neces- 
sary work in preventing the natural process 
of decay. The treatment with spices in 
heavy quantities for the purpose of pre- 
serving, opens up another question at once, 
for there is a wide difference between the 
use of a limited quantity of a spice for 
flavoring, and the employment of a suffi- 
cient amount to break down or annihilate 
the whole of the natural process of deteri- 
oration. Authorities are at variance upon 
that point to a marked degree. 

The chemical action of heat on food 
materials to which had been added con- 
diments had been the sole method of pres- 
ervation for years, until modern science 

8 



Digitized by 



Google 



cast about for a more eflScient and more 
certain substitute. Many have been tried 
and practically abandoned, for it has 
been found that most chemicals which 
will preserve food will also modify digestive 
functions. At the present writing benzoate 
of soda — ^which is common soda treated 
with benzoic acid — ^is the sole preserving 
agent that has been determined by the 
highest scientific authorities to be at once 
eflScient and also so little harmful in the 
quantities necessary to employ that meas- 
urable deleterious eflFect cannot be fou^d.* 
The controversy, then, narrows itself down 
to the conflict between the old method of 
spices and vinegar and heavy cooking as 
against the innovation represented by ben- 
zoate of soda. Such controversies are 
linked with and are a part of scientific 
progress, and, in their final outcome, bene- 
ficial. Gallileo was persecuted because he 
dared the traditional belief of ages; the 
serum theory and anti-toxin were bitterly 

*Testimony of Dr. Harvey W. Wiley before Interstate and 
Foreign Commerce Committee of House of Representatives, 
page 311. 



Digitized by 



Google 



assailed until the death rate from diphtheria 
had been so reduced as to prove the clinch- 
ing argument; the X-ray was scoffed at. 

THE NATURAL SAFEGUARD 

OtJITE eariy in the history of modern 
chemistry it was found that certain 
minor fruits possessed the quality of 
keeping indefinitely, or, to say the least, 
of postponing the inevitable process of 
decay for an extended period of time. 
The inquiring mind naturally set itself to 
asking why the cranberry, the huckleberry, 
the birch, etc., should possess this apparent 
immunity, and in the course of time it 
was discovered that under the skin of 
the berries and the bark of the tree there 
was contained a natural preservative. To 
this was given the name benzoic acid. 

There is some doubt as to whom falls the 
honor of the discovery, inasmuch as such 
investigations have usually been carried on 
independently by several experimenters, 
each unaware of the other's labors, but it 
is certain that the medicinal properties of 
benzoin — the active principle of benzoic 

10 



Digitized by 



Google 



acid — ^has been known since shortly after 
the Elizabethan era. The use of this sub- 
stance as a preservative for foods, however, 
was not attempted, nor perhaps known, 
until a decade ago. Manufacturers of food 
products who had been using the acetic 
acid and spice method cast about for an 
equivalent that would perform the desired 
service with fewer of the drawbacks of the 
earlier or home method, and it was sug- 
gested that benzoic acid could be "cut" or 
neutralized with soda. Exhaustive experi- 
ments were carried on along these lines, 
and after two years several firms decided 
to make use of it. This took place in 1899, 
or nearly seven years before the adoption 
of the present Food and Drug Law. 

Benzoic acid, then, we have learned, is 
actually the vital natural substance, con- 
tained in certain minor fruits and vege- 
tables, that acts as a preservative against 
decay. When combined with soda and ap- 
plied to any vegetable or animal substance, 
its action is precisely the same as in its 
natural state and place — ^it arrests the pro- 
cesses of decay. The quantity necessary 

II 



Digitized by 



Google 



adequately to prevent the process of fermen- 
tation — which is in actuality decay — ^is very 
small, and it effectually prevents the devel- 
opment of bacteria, destroying these should 
they find entry. In the form of benzoate 
of soda this preservative is a white crys- 
talline substance, and it is colorless, odor- 
less and practically tasteless. That which 
is used in foods is obtained from toluene, 
a coal-tar product. The impression which 
has been fostered to the effect that it is 
obtained from hippuric acid is erroneous. 
Such benzoic acid is too expensive for com- 
mercial use and is of German production. 
Importers state that not an ounce is sold 
in this country for use in foods. Dr. H. W. 
Wiley has stated: "In so far as I know, 
none of this particular kind of benzoic acid 
is used in foods.' '* 

HEAT NOT ALWAYS EFFECTIVE 

TT has already been made clear that 
comparatively few food products require 
a preservative other than heat. In the ma- 
jority of processes it is unnecessary, such, 

^Testimony before Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
Committee of the House of Representatives. 

12 



Digitized by 



Google 



for instance, as the strictly canning indus- 
tries, in which fruits, vegetables, soups or 
meats are put up as "air-tights" and are in- 
tended to be used entirely and immediately 
as soon as the package is opened. These re- 
quire no preservative of any sort. It is only 
in products that are intended for gradual 
consumption that any preservative is 
necessary, and by gradual consumption 
is meant this: that a jar of fruit preserves 
may be purchased, opened and left upon 
the table or in an icebox for a week possi- 
bly, until it is entirely consumed. Herein 
the danger lies, for, as Professor E. E. 
Smith, of Fordham University, has shown 
in his experiments along this line, bacteria 
in an unpreserved product develop with 
amazing rapidity.* The exact figures may 
. be interesting, and these are as follows: 
Fresh ripe fruit, sterilized and sealed, 
was laid away for a period of three months. 
It was then opened and tested for bacteria. 
None was found. Three days later the bac- 
terial presence was found to be 8,850 per 

♦Report to the Central Medical Society of Connecticut, 
delivered at Middletown, Feb. 8, 1909. 

13 



Digitized by 



Google 



cubic centimetre (about a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful) ; on the sixth day this amount had 
grown to 244,846,000 per cubic centimetre. 
This serves fitly to illustrate the situation 
where no preservative — chemical or condi- 
mental — is used. We have learned in an 
earlier portion of these pages that spices, 
etc., serve as preservatives, and yet when 
we buy certain brands of preserves we are 
informed upon the label that "no preserva- 
tives" are used. In the interpretation 
of the law this possibly is correct, for 
condiments are not classed as "preserva- 
tives," but the fact remains that spices 
or condiments are chemicals and also 
drugs, and we find them so listed in the 
Pharmacopeia. The statement upon the 
label may then be called a technical eva- 
sion permitted by law. 

THE MANUFACTURER'S VIEW 

TN order to ascertain the commercial argu- 
ment supporting the use of benzoate 
of soda a letter was addressed to a promi- 
nent firm of manufacturers asking their 
reasons. The reply was to the effect that 
during the time of their experimenting 

14 



Digitized by 



Google 



and undertaking to get along without an 
added preservative, they found it was 
absolutely impossible to make a catsup 
that would keep sweet until entirely con- 
sumed, without the aid of some preserving 
agent. They did, however, discover that 
they could make catsup that would keep, 
and this manner of manufacture was the 
same as employed by our mothers, viz.: 
by cooking the whole substance down until 
it had entirely lost its original color and 
tomato flavor and then adding heavy quan- 
tities of spices and vinegar. They expressed 
the belief that there is no question but that 
these goods must have a preservative of 
some kind, whether it be benzoate of soda 
6r excessive amounts of acetic acid (vine- 
gar) and spice products, and from what 
they had learned these latter are more 
injurious to health than the former. 

In this connection it is well to observe 
that the axis of the argument against ben- 
zoate of soda has been supported upon a 
wholesale declaration that benzoate of 
soda was and is used to conceal or cover up 
inferiority of material in the preparation 

15 



Digitized by 



Google 



of various products, and that this was and 
is the sole and only reason for its use. 
Broadly stated, this assertion comes down 
to the charge that manufacturers are en- 
abled to use skins, parings and refuse gen- 
erally in the preparation of their products, 
and that this enables them to put forth a 
class of goods, bearing every outward ap- 
pearance of the first-class article, at prac- 
tically no initial cost for material, and, by 
inference, a class of articles that must of 
necessity be built upon filth and decay. 
No statement could be more diametrically 
opposed to the fact than this. With a 
preservative that has neither color nor 
odor, and with practically no taste, it is 
manifestly impossible to conceal either 
decay, offensive odor, or rotten taste. 

CONCEALING IMPURITIES 

TT would seem proper in this instance to 
^ make an inquiry. Which would be the 
more available to an unscrupulous manu- 
facturer who had on hand a consignment 
of rotten or decayed fruit that he wished 
to preserve — a small quantity of a tasteless, 

i6 



Digitized by 



Google 



odorless and colorless salt, or abnormal 
quantities of heavy and pungent oils and 
spices together with long and continued 
boiling? 

In a recent legal action in Indiana* 
an interesting experiment was reported 
in court. A food chemist in the em- 
ploy of a large firm of manufacturers pro- 
duced a considerable amount of tomato 
pulp that had been prepared for preserv- 
ing, and which he testified was made of 
unfit material, partly decomposed, — ^the 
refuse of the factory. 

This pulp had been divided into three 
parts. The first had been left untreated; 
to the second had been added an amount 
of benzoate of soda considerably in excess 
of that usually employed. To the third 
had been added vinegar that was strong in 
acetic acid and the essential oil of spices. 
The first remained in its previous inedible 
condition; the second showed no change, 
while the third had altered its color from 



*In the Circuit Court of the United States for the District 
of Indiana, No. 10894, in equity. 

17 



Digitized by 



Google 



a dirty brown to a bright red, and the 
offensive eflBuvia changed to an appetizing 
and pungent odor. 

MEANING OF THE PURE FOOD LAW 

nPHE Pure Food and Drug Law of 1906 
went a long way toward insuring pure 
and unadulterated food products to the 
consumer. No honest manufacturer can 
raise any objection to its provisions, 
and investigation has shown that none 
such has been raised. The principal crit- 
icism that may be ventured is that the 
law is not suflSciently drastic as it stands, 
and that it offers loopholes for commercial 
misrepresentation, of which advantage has 
been taken. One scientist has said that 
**the food laws of this country are upside 
down. All manufacturers of food products, 
fruits, vegetables or meats, should be com- 
pelled to use a preservative substance and 
its omission should be made a criminal 
offense." 

In this law a technical distinction has 
been made in the wording between "condi- 
mental" and ^^chemical" preservatives. 

i8 



Digitized by 



Google 



Speaking more exactly, the law says that 
any substance "added solely as a preserva- 
tive" must be indicated upon the label. 
Vinegar and spices are not "added solely 
as a preservative." They are introduced 
ostensibly as condiment or flavor, but also 
because their use will have a preservative 
effect, and it is not legally compulsory to 
indicate upon the label the acetic acid that 
is found in such foods. It is under this 
technicality that the "no preservative" 
claim is made freely in advertising and 
other matter, which is, to a considerable 
extent, misleading. 



19 



Digitized by 



Google 



A REVIEW OF THE FINDINGS 

UOR many months a widespread agitation 
^ has been going on in this country over 
this question of preservatives. Stripping 
the discussion of unauthorized and unscien- 
tific statements, and eliminating from it all 
the inspired matter that has been pub- 
lished, the situation simmers itself down 
to the point of actual experimentation to 
ascertain the effects of benzoate of soda 
upon the human system. There have been 
two series in this country. The first was 
conducted by Dr. H. W. Wiley, Chief of 
the Bureau of Chemistry of the United 
States Department of Agriculture, and the 
second by the so-called Remsen Scientific 
Referee Board, appointed by Secretary 
of Agriculture Wilson, in accordance with 
instructions from President Roosevelt, and 
composed of five of the most eminent 
scientists in the country. The findings of 
both of these have been very largely mis- 
represented, for they are, in effect, not very 
widely apart. 

In the original report of Dr. Wiley* it 
was shown, with every appearance of verity, 

^Bulletin 84, Bureau of Chemistry, U. S. Dept. of Agricul- 
ture. Since recalled as unofiScial. 

ao 



Digitized by 



Google 



that the experiments upon the twelve mem- 
bers of the "poison squad'' who were sub- 
jected to the tests had indicated "strongly 
marked physiological modifications/' and 
that the whole digestive system had been 
upset. By referring to the report we dis- 
cover that these experiments were carried 
on for a period of only thirty days, which 
had been divided into three sub-periods. 
These consisted of a "fore period" of five 
days, in which no benzoate of soda was 
given to the subjects, but in which they 
were merely prepared for the test to come; 
then the actual period of the administra- 
tion of the salt during twenty continuous 
days; and then an "after period" of five 
days, in which the system was supposed to 
readjust itself. This bulletin was issued 
without proper departmental authority, 
and, in fact, in opposition to direct in- 
structions pending a review of the case. 
The belief, therefore, that the Department 
of Agriculture had prohibited the use of 
benzoate of soda as a preservative was con- 
sequently erroneous. 

In a paper printed in the Medical Record 
of January 2, 1909, by Professor E. E. 

21 



Digitized by 



Google 



Smith, that author says: "A careful and 
painstaking analysis of the work of the 
chief chemist of the Department of Agri- 
culture shows that a curious condition ex- 
isted at the time of the experiment. Of the 
twelve men who served as subjects eleven 
were suflFering from some form of physical 
derangement before, during and after 
the experiments. The one who was free 
from any such indications was the only one 
reported who did not suflFer from the so- 
called injurious effects of benzoate of soda, 
while each of the eleven others indicated 
exactly those symptoms which would have 
occurred as a natural result of their condi- 
tion, whether the preservative had been 
administered or not." 

The Remsen Scientific Referee Board, ap- 
pointed by President Roosevelt to review 
the work of the Bureau of Chemistry be- 
cause of the questions raised as to the scien- 
tific value and accuracy of the work of the 
bureau, consisted of Professor Ira Rem- 
sen, president of Johns Hopkins Univer- 
sity; Professor Russell H. Chittenden, of 
Yale University; Dr. Christian A. Herter, 

22 



Digitized by 



Google 



of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York; Professor 
John H, Long, of Northwestern Univer- 
sity, Chicago, and Professor Alonzo E. 
Taylor, of the University of California.* 
This board conducted a series of experi- 
ments in three cities simultaneously, and 
covered a period of about three months. 
The questions put to the board were: 

(1) "Does a food to which there has been added 
benzoic acid, or any of its salts, contain any added 
poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient 
which may render the said food injurious to health? 

(i) (a) "In large quantities? (b) In small 
quantities? 

(3) "If benzoic acid or any of its salts be mixed 
or packed with a food, is the quality or strength of 
said food thereby reduced, lowered or injuriously 
affected? (a) In large quantities? (b) In small 
quantities?" 

The general conclusions of the board 

were: 

(1) "Sodium benzoate in small doses (under 0.5 
gram per day) mixed with the food is without 
deleterious or poisonous action and is not injurious 
to health. 



*Prof. Taylor did not participate in the experiments, but 
travelled in Europe searching the foreign literature. 

23 



Digitized by 



Google 



(i) "Sodium benzoate in large doses (up to 4 
grams per day) mixed with the food has not been 
found to exert any deleterious effect on the general 
health, nor to act as a poison in the general ac- 
ceptation of the term. In some directions there 
were slight modifications in certain physiological 
processes, the exact significance of which modifica- 
tions is not known. 

(3) "The admixture of sodium benzoate with 
food in small or large doses has not been found to 
injuriously afifect or impair the quality or nutri- 
ent value of such food." 

As a result of this the following decision 
was made by the Department of Agricul- 
ture, under date of March 3, 1909: . 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 104 

Amendment to Food Inspection Decisions No. 76 and No. 89, 
Relating to the Use in Foods of Benzoate of Soda. 

The Referee Board of Consulting Scientific 
Experts, composed of Dr. Ira Remsen, Dr. Russell 
H. Chittenden, Dr. John H. Long, Dr. Alonzo E. 
Taylor, and Dr. C. A. Herter, have reported upon 
the use of benzoate of soda in foods. The board 
reports, as a result of three extensive and exhaus- 
tive investigations, that benzoate of soda mixed 
with food is not deleterious or poisonous and is 
not injurious to health* The summary of the 
report of the Referee Board is published herewith. 

It having been determined that benzoate of 
soda mixed with food is not deleterious or poison- 
ous and is not injurious to health, no objection 
will be raised under the Food and Drug Act to 

24 



Digitized by 



Google 



the use in food of benzoate of soda, provided that 
each container or package of such food is plainly 
labeled to show the presence and amount of ben- 
zoate of soda. 

Food Inspection Decisions 76 and 89 are 
amended accordingly. 

GEORGE B. CORTELYOU, 

Secretary of the Treasury, 

JAMES WILSON. 

Secretary of A§rricuUure, 

OSCAR S. STRAUS, 

Secretary of Commerce and Labor. 

This, then, is all that stands as authority 
on this subject in this country, either 
governmental or scientific. In reaching its 
conclusions, however, the Remsen Board 
was not content to rest upon its own 
original investigations, for a careful search 
was made of the European authorities, one 
hundred and twenty-seven in all, some in 
the form of complete works, some in the 
form of special articles in the technical 
press, and others as Government reports. 
Many of these experiments were performed 
upon animals, a considerable number upon 
human beings; some others had for their ob- 
ject the determination of the actual eflFect 
of the salt upon bacteria. One discussed 



Digitized by 



Google 



the treatment of tuberculosis by benzoic 
inhalation, and the rest merely considered 
the reports of others. 

Others who may be considered as au- 
thorities have touched the subject in 
its various details, and their opinions are 
here appended. 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Two Preservative Methods 
Compared 

Statement of HENRY W. FRAUENTHAL, A.C., M.D. 

Surgeon-in-Chief, Hospital for Deformities and Joint Diseases, New York, 
and President of the National Association for the Promotion of Public Health 



Regarding the methods of preservation to-day, it 
may be isaid that there are two and two only in use 
by reputable manufacturers, and around them a 
considerable war is being waged by commercial in- 
terests in which I have no part. I regard both as 
good, under reasonable use. The first of these is as 
old as civilization and, with some modifications, is 
the method used by the Egyptians to preserve their 
dead. They used the essential oil of spices. The 
"home" method or process used by some manu- 
facturers is the same, with the addition of 
vinegar; the whole, during the process of cooking — 
which is purely a chemical operation — resulting in 
the creation within the food itself of the chemical 
known as acetic acid. 

The other method is that evolved by the mod- 
ern chemist to take the place of the boiling and 
spicing. Various chemicals have been used — some 
too powerful in retarding fermentation to be ad- 
visable — ^until, after much experiment, benzoate of 
soda was considered to be harmless, or, at least, 
so infinitesimally harmful that it could not be 
measured. There is really no difference of opinion 
between authorities upon this point. The array 
includes practically all chemists of note, even 

27 



Digitized by 



Google 



including the chief chemist of the food concern 
which is most prominently in opposition. It even 
includes Dr. H. W. Wiley, of Washington, who has 
gone on record in sworn testimony* not only that 
in certain classes of foods a preservative is needed, 
but also that benzoate of soda is the least to be 
feared. 

For myself there is very little choice, since 
either method will preserve the food and give the 
protection that is needed. Both methods may 
undoubtedly be abused by unscrupulous manu- 
facturers. The heavy odor and taste of the spices 
and condiments make it possible to deceive the 
nose and make palatable the use of food material 
that would otherwise be rejected. Benzoate of 
soda, on the other hand, is as transparent as a 
piece of plate glass, and, while it will keep partly 
decayed food from getting any worse, it will not 
make bad food any better or conceal its use by the 
addition of another taste or odor. Another point 
in favor of the latter method is, it seems to me, 
that it would require a far heavier dose of benzoate 
of soda to produce an appreciable effect upon the 
system than of acetic acid. The amount of acetic 
acid in a bottle of catsup, for instance, if separ- 
ated and taken clear, would produce most painful 
results. Moreover, foods that are preserved by 
this method will be found to contain an amount 
of acetic acid from three to five times greater than 
those which depend upon the amount of benzoate 
of soda sanctioned by the Government. 

*Hearings before the Committee on Interstate and 
Foreign Commerce of the House of Representatives, Wash- 
ington, 1906. ( See page 38). 



Digitized by 



Google 



BENZOATE OF SODA vs. ACETIC ACID 
It has been stated in the foregoing that where 
benzoate of soda was not employed as a preserva- 
tive a far greater amount of acetic acid would be 
found to be contained in the goods. For pur- 
poses of experiment four leading brands of catsup 
were purchased in the open market and submitted 
for analysis to the Lederle Laboratories in New 
York and to Dr. S. P. Sharpies in Boston. Fol- 
lowing are the results: 







Aceric Acid. 


Benzoate of Soda. 


Sample.* 


Ubel Statement. 












New York 


Boston 


New York 


Boston 


A 


Preserved with 
1-10 of 1 per cent 












ofB.ofS 


.68 


.66 


.0133 


.01 


B 


Contains no chem- 














2.11 


1.08 


.007 


.000 


C 


Prepared only with 
vinegar, spices. 












onions and garlic 


1.21 


1.14 


.007 


.000 


00 


(Same manufac- 
turer.) Contains 
1-10 of 1 per 












cent, of B. of S . 


.... 


.66 




.01 


D 


Prepared without a 
chemical preser- 






















vative 


1.30 


1.32 


.000 


.000 









It is perfectly clear from the above that where 
one-tenth of 1 per cent benzoate of soda has been 
used the amount of acetic acid has been reduced 
materially. That is to say, in comparison between 
samples A and B, we find that sample A, which 
contained benzoate of soda, showed but .68 per cent 
of acetic acid, as against 2.11 per cent of acetic 
acid in sample B. Comparing the two samples 
C and CC, the one containing benzoate of soda 
and the other not, we find that where it was omit- 
ted the a mount of acetic acid rose to 1.14 per cent. 
^Names will be furnished on application. 

29 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Necessity of Some Preservative 

GLEN. F. MASON 
Chemist for H.J. Heinz Company 

BxtracU from Addreu at Eighth Annual Convention of the Nation^ Association 
of State Dairy and Pood Departments, St. Louis, Mo. 



The necessity of a preservative in fruit and 
vegetable products has been called to my attention 
upon numerous occasions in connection with work 
in the laboratory during the past year. Tomato 
products were used as a basis for research in a great 
many instances. Every possible means of pre- 
serving with none but natural agencies were used, 
but without satisfactory results. Tomatoes were 
pulped in the laboratory, the bottles thoroughly 
sterilized, and then filled to top with pulp, corked 
and sealed. These kept for about sixty hours and 
then one after the other blew out the cork and a 
rapid fermentation set in. The same scheme was 
tried again, the pulp being put in cold storage. In 
a comparatively short time this lot also fermented. 

« « « « « « 

When the question of which preservative should 
be used I think all agree on benzoate of soda. 
Most of the ordinary chemical preservatives which 
have the power to preserve these articles are 
more or less injurious to the human system. 

I know of no case on record where death or even 
serious illness was caused by benzoate of soda, and 

30 



Digitized by 



Google 



I see no reason why it should not be preferable to 
any other chemical preservative. 

***** « 

It has been stated by competent authority that 
salicylic acid produces chronic dyspepsia. No 
such results have ever been tabulated against 
benzoic acid. Numerous other preservatives have 
all such records, but nowhere will you find benzoic 
acid spoken of as a poison. 

* * * * * * 

In case a preservative was not used in an easily 
fermentable article, what would be the result? 
The consumer would be eating various moulds and 
introducing bacteria into his system by the millions. 
Every one knows that a human being cannot relish 
moulds such as are formed upon various fruits* 
But you say these are of no importance, as they are 
on the top and can be removed without any in- 
jurious effect upon the preserves or other product 
on which they grew. This may be true in the case 
of "home-made" preserves where it remains in the 
cellar or pantry without being molested until ready 
for consumption. 

* * * * * * 

The commercial preserves are shipped from one 
climate to another, usually going through some- 
what sudden changes of temperature and shaken 
up in every conceivable way; and in the meantime 
the mould, if any, which has been resting peace- 
fully on top, is mixed thoroughly with the rest of 
the fruit. Fermentation will soon set in by the 
constant, or almost constant, circulation of air, 
through the preserves, caused by constant changing 
of box from one spot to another. 



31 



Digitized by 



Google 



Then you have the absolutely pure preserves, 
free from preservatives, as they would very often 
reach the consumer. No one would take them in 
preference to the nice, clean-looking preserves, 
absolutely free from fermentation, containing only 
a very small amount of benzoate of soda. Al- 
though none of the moulds found upon fruits have 
as yet been proven as poisons in the strictest sense 
of the word, yet none of them is considered per- 
fectly harmless, and all know them to produce 
digestive disturbances. They are not pleasing to 
the eye by any means. I have collected moulds 
grown upon fruits, free from preservatives, which 
have been kept in screw-top jars. A person would 
not have to look long at them to lose his appetite, 
and merely from appearance would reject the fruit. 
Would it not be better to use a little benzoate of 
soda, and do away with these objectionable things? 

« * « « « « 

It seems to me that benzoate of soda in such 
quantities as consumed by an individual in condi- 
ments can not be injurious to the human system; 
and we can all be positive it would not be near as 
injurious as condiments put up without benzoate 
of soda, which are usually kept on the table for 
some time, producing ferments and moulds, and, 
not having proper attention paid to them, are often 
consumed in that state. 



32 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Use of Essential Oils 

Statement of Dr. CLEMONS KLEBER 

Clifton Laboratories, Passaic, N. J. 



It has been charged that the use of a preserva- 
tive such as benzoate of soda has a harmful effect 
upon the process of digestion by retarding the ac- 
tion of the natural chemical ferments of the 
stomach, but I have found it possible to prove, and 
have absolutely proved that these natural ferments 
were not really harmed at all by proper quantities 
of the preservative, but that on the contrary a 
large number of foreign and dangerous bacteria 
present, were so modified in their action as to 
give the digestive juices proper and sufficient 
time to conquer them. 

There are still many secrets in digestion, of 
course, especially with regard to the part played by 
so-called "beneficent" bacteria, but I am con- 
vinced that any possible injury done to these doubt- 
ful friends of the stomach is far outweighed by the 
protection against injurious forms of disease germs 
afforded by proper quantities of benzoate of soda 
such as are introduced into the system in the eating 
of preserved foods. And this, of course, does not 
take into consideration the protection given the 
food itself which is of inestimable value. Experi- 
ments have demonstrated over and over again that 
the chemical preservative I have named is effective 
as a preventative against dangerous conditions 
when used in reasonable quantities, and it has the 

33 



Digitized by 



Google 



additional advantage of being colorless and tasteless. 
It is thus not possible to disguise with it the 
flavor of food which has begun to putrefy. 

The essential oils of spices are, of course, all 
slightly antiseptic, and they would be exceedingly 
serviceable as food preservatives were it not for the 
fact that they are so pungent and powerful in their 
flavor. In not a single case, save perhaps that of 
pickles, when a mild thymol can be used, can they 
be effective as preservatives unless so much of them 
is used that their flavor is not only unpleasantly 
strong but possibly highly dangerous. I may add 
for the information of the non-technical that the 
essential oils themselves are the only antiseptic 
elements of spices; the natural spices themselves 
having no such qualities whatever, though I am 
aware that an attempt has been made to convey 
that impression. The process of obtaining or ex- 
tracting the oils from the natural condiment is 
only possible by means of an acid process. 

Apart from these facts my chief reason for the 
advocacy of benzoate of soda as a preservative of 
foods is its value to the poorer people. There is 
no doubt that preserving may be done by "apper- 
tization" — that is, by air-tight sealing of jars, the 
contents of which have been heated to the boiling 
point in the fashion of our home preserving — ^but 
experience has taught all of us the uncertainties 
of this process by many an unnecessary death, 
and it has this great economic disadvantage, that 
such goods must be eaten within forty-eight hours 
at most of opening. With benzoate of soda, how- 
ever, the period of safety is enormously extended, 
and while to the person of comfortable means this 
may not be important, to the small wage earner 
without refrigerating conveniences it is very seri- 

34 



Digitized by 



Google 



ous indeed. It is obvious, of course, that manu- 
facturers are not going to add more of a compar- 
atively expensive preservative than is needed. 
Personally I shall continue to demand its use in 
all such materials I purchase for my own table. 



THE PRESERVATIVE PROPERTIES OF SPICES 

In reply to a question as to the digestive qual- 
ity of spices, Dr. S. P. Sharpies, of Boston, one 
of the editorial contributors to the American Edi- 
tion of the Encyclopedia Britannica, said: "Infi- 
nitely bad. In my opinion far worse than ben- 
zoate of soda or salicylic acid, and their influence 
on the digestive functions is highly deleterious. I 
have known this for years. Spices themselves are 
the most powerful known preservatives, and have 
been known as such for thousands of years. The 
ancient Egyptians knew this and used them for 
embalming their dead. This was done so per- 
fectly by these spices that the mummies have 
lasted until this time." 



Dr. J. N. Hurty. of the Indiana State Board of 
Health, said in the Journal of the American Med- 
ical Association, under date of January 30, 1909: 
"I believe also that spices are irritants and highly 
injurious. Acetic acid extract of spices is strong 
vinegar percolated over a mixture of cloves, pep- 
per, cinnamon, etc., and there results a powerful 
antiseptic which is injurious." 

35 



Digitized by 



Google 



Holes in the Pure Food Law 

(From S^ringjUld [M«m.] Unicn^ March 19, 1909) 



As a result of his experiments Professor Smith 
has announced before the Central Medical Asso- 
ciation that: "The Pure Food and Drug Law of 
1906 has done much by demanding honest labeling 
of products, but vinegar and spices are condiments, 
and therefore do not require statement on the 
label. Acetic acid, however, is not a condiment, 
but a chemical preservative of dangerous quality 
and should be so labeled, and now that by the 
findings of the Referee Board of Chemists benzoates 
are found to be harmless, I suggest that the efforts 
of the proper authorities be directed toward prop- 
erly labeling the products containing acetic acid, 
and a rigid inspection of the raw material to see 
that it is of the proper quality." 

Read Gordon, B.S., a food chemist of national 
reputation, who last October debated the Pure 
Food law with Dr. H. W. Wiley before the Chem- 
ical Society in New York, has just expressed a 
precisely similar opinion. In an interview he has 
said: "It is highly important that, if the public 
is to be forced to consume large quantities of acetic 
acid, it should be informed of the fact on the label, 
and the law is not definitely and sincerely effective 
until this is done. The present condition permits 
the use of embalming methods with acetic acid 
and essential oils and spices that are no whit bet- 
ter than, and just as offensive as, that employed 
by the ancient Egyptians.'' 

36 



Digitized by 



Google 



Several Mooted Questions 
Answered 

Extracts from an Article by Dr. E. E. SMITH, Professor of Physiological 

Chemistry, Fordham University, and Director of Research, 

Red Cross Hospital, New York 



WHY AND WHEN IS A PRESERVATIVE 
NECESSARY IN FOOD? 

Vegetable products, like tomatoes, after being 
sterilized, may be kept sealed indefinitely without 
a preservative. If eaten immediately after opening, 
no preservative is necessary; if kept for more than 
a few hours they must have a preservative or they 
will spoil, exactly as fresh, ripe vegetables decay. 

WHAT PRESERVATIVES SHALL BE USED? 

Acetic acid and spices may be used; so may 
benzoate of soda. The objection to acetic acid 
and spices is that they cover the real taste and 
are far more likely to be injurious than benzoate. 
When acetic acid is used it requires as much sugar 
as in syrup to cover the strong acid taste. 

HOW CAN DECAY IN MATERIAL BE 
CONCEALED ? 

Decayed raw material has a bad flavor. To 
cover bad taste substances must be added which 
have a taste stronger than the decayed material. 
Benzoate of soda, in one-tenth per cent, strength, 
has no taste at all. Even the novice knows that 
acetic acid and spices obscure the flavor of raw 
material, while benzoate of soda does not. It 

37 



Digitized by 



Google 



merely preserves. If the original raw material 
is good it keeps it good; if it is bad it keeps it bad 
and does not cover the bad taste. It leaves the 
product so that the consumer may know precisely 
what the flavor is. 

WHAT IS "DOPE" IN FOOD? 

When sugar is used for medicine it becomes a 
drug. When onion syrup is given to the baby 
for cold in the throat the onion is a drug. When 
glacial acetic acid is used to eat oflF warts it be- 
comes a drug. When allspice is given to prevent 
griping it is a drug. When benzoic acid is inhaled 
to soothe a hoarse throat it becomes a drug. Be- 
cause sugar, onions, vinegar, spices and benzoic 
acid may be used as drugs is no reason why they 
should not be eaten in food. 

WHENCE IS DERIVED BENZOATE OF SODA? 

Not a single pound of benzoate of soda made 
from any animal excretion is to be found in the 
markets of this country at the present day. Ben- 
zoate of soda is common soda, treated with benzoic 
acid. It is true that years ago, brfore the discov- 
ery of the present method of manufacture, a poor 
grade of benzoic acid was made in Germany in the 
way criticised, but the practice is absolutely obso- 
lete. There is no reason to believe that a pound 
of it was ever made into benzoate of soda. One 
reason why it is not used is because of the poor 
quality, and another equally practical is the big 
price. Benzoic acid thus obtained is not only 
inferior, but it costs more than ten times as much 
as the clean, pure benzoate from toluene.* 

*A coal-tar product. 

38 



Digitized by 



Google 



what Various Authorities Say 

WILEY, Dr. HARVEY W., Chief of the 
Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department 
of Agriculture, in his sworn testimony before 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
of the House of Representatives on the Pure Food 
Bill, February 26, 1906: 

"I want to point out how they have misun- 
derstood the eflForts which have been made to 
ascertain certain facts relating to the effect of 
preservatives, coloring matters and other sub- 
stances added to foods on health and digestion; 
how they have misunderstood the purpose and 
scope of the food standards which have been 
proclaimed by the Secretary of Agriculture in 
accordance with an act of Congress, and have, 
as a result of these erroneous views, created 
what seems to them a demon of future dangers, 
but which is nothing more than a phantom of 
a perturbed imagination. 

* i¥ * * * * 

"Prof. Kremers states his position on page 
37, where he says: 

'* '/ knaw thai salicylic acid has been used to a 
considerable extent; boracic acid also has been used. 
There are worse things than that by far that 
have been used. The question is^ I suppose^ of 
finding a preservative that, if it is not absolutely 
harmless J will do the least harm,' 

39 



Digitized by 



Google 



"I must acknowledge my gratitude to Prof. 
Kremers for thus stating in his own language a 
position which I regard as wholly irrefutable 
m respect to the use of benzoic acid in foods. 

* * * « « * 

"I am not advocating the prohibition of the 
use of benzoic acid by anybody who wants to 
use it. I would be in favor of putting benzoic 
acid in a little salt cellar, the same as is used 
for salt and pepper, and letting the people use 
it if they want to. I think benzoic acid would 
not hurt me, or be injurious to my system." 

MUELLER, SEBASTIAN, Vice-President of 
the H. J. Heinz Company, in an address at the 
eighth annual convention of the National Associa- 
tion of State and Food Departments, at St. 
Louis, Mo.: 

"Mould and fermentation are frequently 
found by the housewife in the goods which she 
herself has put up, and when the home articles 
are finally taken into use the mould is removed 
and the good part underneath is eaten. When 
the home product is found to be fermented it is 
boiled over and then used, but while the house- 
wife may be willing to remove the mould from 
her own goods and boil over the fermented 
goods which she herself has made, she is not 
likely to buy mouldy or fermented goods from 
the grocer. When goods are made on a large 
scale, although with the same care and cleanli- 
ness, you can readily see what will happen 
when they are shipped over long distances 
and transported from one climate to another. 
If any mould has formed before the goods are 

40 



Digitized by 



Google 



shipped, the mould will become mixed with the 
entire contents of the package during transit, 
and if complete spoilage did not take place on 
this account, the consumer would be eating 
mould, which, in my opinion, is more objec- 
tionable than to eat the small and harmless 
quantity of added preservative required to 
prevent its formation. Again, if goods were 
slightly fermented on the top of the package, 
the bacteria of fermentation would become 
mixed with the balance during transit, and the 
whole package would go up in fermentation. 



"Now let us come to the preservative itself. 
The least objectionable one in use to-day seems 
to be benzoate of soda. It is non-poisonous and 
does not accumulate in the human system." 

KREMERS, Prof. EDWARD, of the Univer- 
sity of Wisconsin, in his testimony before the 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
of the House of Representatives on the Pure Food 
Bill, February 15, 1906: 

"I have examined the best literature in 
the three languages, English, French and 
German, and have yet to find a statement that 
benzoic acid administered even in medicinal 
doses would produce harm." 

KEDZIE, Dr. FRANK S., professor of chem- 
istry of the Michigan Agricultural College, 
testifying before the same committee on the same 
day: 

41 



Digitized by 



Google 



''I eat catsup (naming the brand) that I 
know contains benzoic acid, and I have it on 
my table every day. I do that in preference 
to taking the catsup bottle, as I used to do 
when I was a boy, and running to the refrigera- 
tor every time after it was used and putting it 
there so that it would not sour and the cork 
would not pop out." 

VAUGHAN, Prof. VICTOR C, of the Uni- 
versity of Michigan, also testifying: 

''I am sure that benzoic acid, in the quanti- 
ties in which it is used in tomato catsup, sweet 
pickles, etc., one part in 1£00 or 2000, does not 
do any harm. 



"Why ought we to use preservatives in 
foods at all? The use of preservatives in foods 
is to prevent the growth of bacteria. Doctor 
Wiley is a good chemist, and the Bureau of 
Chemistry is doing exceUent work; but how in 
the world can any one expect an expa't 
bacteriologist to decide how much of a preserv- 
ative is necessary to preserve a given food? 
If you want to get a patent, you would not go 
to a criminal lawyer in order to get it. If you 
wanted to defend some one on a charge of 
murder, you would not go to a patent lawyer. 
And I must say, with aU due respect to the 
agricultural chemists of this country, many of 
whom are great men and doing splendid work, 
that men who all their lives have been assay- 
ing soils and estimating the value of fertilizers 
are not fitted by education to determine the 
effect of anything upon the animal body." 

42 



Digitized by 



Google 



KELLER, Prof., writing in Liebig's Annual of 
Chemistry (German), Vol. XLIII: 

"The author took 2 grams of benzoic acid 
without other eflFect than a nightsweat which 
may have been due to the acid. The next day 
the same dose was taken three times, liiaking 
a total of 8 grams in twenty-four hours, and 
no other eflFects were noticeable or observed." 

MARCH AND, Prof., in a paper contributed to 
The Journal of Chemical Practice (Grerman), 
Vol. XXXV: 

"In experiments continued over a period of 

ten days, during which 30 grams of benzoic 

acid were administered, we were unable to 

observe any ill eflFects whatever." 

KLEBS, Prof., quoted in The Correspondence 
of Swiss Physicians, Vol. VIII: 

"There are absolutely no disagreeable effects 
whatever when sodium benzoate is adminis- 
tered for long periods of time, even in doses 
up to £5 grams per day. In medical practice 
it has been found that a dose of from 10 to 15 
grams per day gives no harmful results." 

SENATOR, Dr. H., in a contribution to The 
Journal of Clinical Medicine (German), Vol. I: 

"The author administered sodium benzoate 
in doses of 4 to 6 grams per day without the 
slightest ill eflfect, and then increased the dose 
to 11 and 1£ grams. In cases of acute rheuma- 
tism, as much as 70 grams of sodium benzoate 
were administered in eleven days without any 
disturbing symptoms whatever." 

43 



Digitized by 



Google 



SCHUELLER, Prof. MAX, writing in The 
Experimental Pathological and Pharmacological 
Record (German), Vol. XI: 

"It is quite possible for an adult to ingest 
from 20 to 30 grams of sodium benzoate per 
day without any injurious eflFect." 

DEMME, Dr. R., in a communication to 
Smith's Year Book of the Summary of Medicine 
(German), Vol. CLXXXIII: 

"Diphtheria has been treated with from 5 
to 20 grams of sodium benzoate per day, besides 
local treatment with it, and subcutaneous injec- 
tions of a 50 per cent, solution in retro- and 
sub-maxillary region and the tonsils. There 
was no drop in temperature, and the heart 
action was materially improved.'' 

ROKITANSKY, Dr., in Wiener's Medical Press 
(German), Vol. XX: 

"Inhalations of sodium benzoate are of 
great value in phthisis. A patient weighing 
50 kilograms must use at least 50 grams in 
5 per cent, solution each day — the dose being 
determined by the body weight." 

WINTER, Prof., in an article contributed to 
Smith's Year Book of The Summary of Medicine 
(German), Vol. CLXXXVI: 

"The author has invariably failed to observe 
any ill eflFects after the use of the benzoates. 
In all cases they are found to be strongly 
diuretic." 

44 



Digitized by 



Google 



VON JAKSCH, author of "The Poisons:" 

"Perhaps benzoic acid and its salts are the 
least injurious of the whole aromatic series 
{including the essential oils of spices)'^ for the 
human organism. I have repeatedly given 
in rheumatism as high as £4 grams of sodium 
benzoate per day without observing any in- 
jurious effect. Cases have come under my 
knowledge where as high as 60 grams per day 
have been given." 

SIRECI, Prof., writing in Maly's Year Book 
of Animal Chemistry (German), Vol. XXVII: 

"Even with high doses of benzoate acid, it 
was not possible to exceed the capacity of the 
body to transform all the benzoic acid." 

LEFFMAN, Dr. H., in The Journal of the 
Franklin Institute (American), Vol. CXLVII: 

"Benzoic acid and sodium benzoate 
are practically without influence on the 
digestive power of the enzymes. * * * 
Sodium benzoate has been given internally 
in doses amounting to 5 to £0 grams a day. 
* * * Physiologically, sodium benzoate is 
about as harmless as a drug can be." 

WOOD, Dr. H. C, in "Therapeutics,'' 12th Ed.: 
"The local action of benzoic acid, unless in 
large quantities, is scarcely irritant to mucous 
membranes. * * * The contradictory 
testimony regarding the influence upon nutri- 
tion indicates that it had no constant powerful 
action." 



*Italics added. 

45 



Digitized by 



Google 



Bibliography' 



KELLER. — Uber Verwandlung der Benzoeaure in Uippur- 
saure. Liebig's Annalen der Chemie, 1842, XLIII, 103. 

MARCHAND. — Uber die Ozydationsproducte des Leims 
durch Chromsaure. Journal fur practische Chemie, 
1845. XXXV, 309. 

WOHLER AND FRERICHS.— Uber die Veranderungen, 
etc. Licbig's Annalen der Chemie, 1848, LXV, 335. 

KUHNE AND HALLWACHS.— Uber die Entstehung der 
Hippursaure, etc. Virchow's Archiv fur pathologische 
Anatomic, 1857, XII, 386. 

LUCKE. — Uber die Anwesenheit der Hippursaure, etc. Vir- 
chow's Archiv fur pathologische Anatomic, 1860, XIX, 
196. 

LAUTEMANN.— Uber die Reduction der Chinasure, etc. 
Liebig*s Annalen der Chemie, 1863, CXXV, 9. 

MATTSCHEWSKY.— Zur Entstehung der Hippursaure. 
Virchow's Archiv 'fur pathologische Anatomic, 1863, 
XXVIII, 538. 

MEISSNER AND SHEPARD.— Untersuchungen uber das 
Entstehen der Hippursaure im thierischen Organismus. 
Hannover, 1866. 

HOFMEISTER. — Beobachtungen uber Hippursaurebildung 
im Pflanzenfresserham. Landwirthschaftliche Ver- 
suchsstationmen, 1871, XVI, 458. 

BUCHHOLTZ. — Antiseptica unter Bacterien. Archiv fur 
experimentelle Pathologic und Pharmacologic, 1875, 
IV, 1 . 

*This is the bibliography consulted by the Remsen Board in reaching 
its findings. 

46 



Digitized by 



Google 



WEISKE. — Untersuchungen uber die Hippursaurebildung 
im Korper des Herbivoren bei Verabriechung verschie- 
denartiger Futtermittel. (Unter MitwirkuDg von Kell- 
ner und Wienand.) Zeitschrift fur Biologie, 1876, 
XII. 241. 

E. OKOLOW.— Uber die Einwirkung der Salicyl-und der 
Benzoesaure auf Faulniss und Gahrung. Centralblatt 
fur Chirurgie. 1876, P. 777. (Abstract by W. Grube. 
Original Russian.) 

E. SALKOWSKI. — Zur Wirkung des benzoesaurren Natrons. 

Virchow's Archiv fur pathologische Anatomie, 1877, 
LXXVIII, 53. 

A. HOFFMAN. — Uber die Hippursaurebildung in der Niere. 
Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologie und Pharmacologic, 

1877, VII, 239. 

F. WALTER.— Die Wirkung der Sauren auf den tierischen 

Organismus. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologie und 
Pharmacologic, 1877, VII, 148. 

BUNGE AND SCHMIEDEBERG.— Uber die Bildung der 
Hippursaure. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologie und 
Pharmacologic, 1877, VI, 233. 

SALKOWSKI.— Vorgang der Harnstoflfbildung in Tierkor- 
per. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1877-1878, 
111. 

LAUDER BRUNTON.— Text Book on Pharmacology, 
Therapeutics and Materia Medica. London 1878, edi- 
tion, 78. 

G. BROWN.— Zur Therapie der Dipthertis. Archiv fur ex- 

perimentelle Pathologie und Pharmacologic, 178, VIII, 
140. 

KLEBS. — Uber einige therapeutische Gesichtspunkte welche 
durch die parasitare Theorie der Infectionskrankhciten 
geboten erscheinen. Prager medizinische Wochenschrift, 

1878, III, 5, 16, 41, 54. 

47 



Digitized by 



Google 



KLEBS. — Uber einige therapeutische Gesichtspunkte welche 
durch (lie parasitare Form der Infectionskrankheiten ge- 
boten erscheinen. Prager medizinische Wochenschrift, 
1878, III. 1, 2, 5, 6. 

KLEBS. — Natrium benzoicum. Correspondenzblatt fur 
Schweizer Aerzte, 1878, VIII, 313. 



SALKOWSKL— Uber den Einfluss der Verschliessung des 
Darmkanals, etc. Virchow's Archiv fur pathologische 
Anatomie, 1878, LXXIII, 421. 



E. SALKOWSKL— Uber das Vorkommen von AUantoin 
und Hippursaure im Hundeharn. Berichte der deutschen 
chemiachen Gesellschaft, 1878, XI, 500. 

WINTER. — Zur therapeutischen Verwendung des benzoe- 
sauren Natrons. (Abstract) Schmidt's Jahrbucher fur 
die gesammtc Medizin, 1879, CLXXIV, 121. 

NAUMANN. — Uber die therapeutische Verwendung des 
benzoesauren Natrons. (Nach SchuUer, Klebs, Letzer- 
ich, Hoffman.) Schmidt's Jahrbucher fur die gesammte 
Medizin, 1879, CLXXXII, 125. 

SENATOR. — Uber die Wirkung der Benzoesaure bei der 
rheumatischen Polyarthrits. Zeitschrift fur klinische 
Medizin, 1879, 1, 243. 

FRITSCHE. — (In a discussion of a paper on inhalations of 
sodium benzoate in tuberculosis of the lungs.) Berliner 
klinische Wochenschrift, 1879, XVI, 762. 

M. SCHULLER. — Uber therapeutische Versuche bei mit 
tuberculosen, scrophulosen, septischen Massen infecier- 
ten Tieren. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und 
Pharmacologic, 1879, XI, 84. 

F. KROCZAC. — ^Vorlaufige Mitteilung uber Natronbenzo- 

icum Inhalation am Krankenbette. Wiener medizin- 
ische Presse, 1879, XX, 1178. 



48 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOLOMON. — IJber den Ort der Hippursaurebildung beim 
Pflanzenfresser. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 
1879, III. 365. 

VON SCHRODER.— Uber die Bildung der Hippursaure im 
Organismus des Schafes. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie. 1879, III. 323. 

R. D£MM£.— Sechzehnter mediz. Bericht uber die Thatig- 
keit des Jennerschen Kinderhospitals in Bern im Laufe 
des Jahres 1878. Schmidt's Jahrbucher fur die gesammte 
Medizin. 1879. CLXXXIII. 218. 

STADELMANN.— Uber die Umwandlung der Chinasure in 
Hippursaure im Organismus der Saugetiere. Archiv fur 
experimen telle Pathologie und Pharmacologie. 1879. 
X, 817. 

ROKITANSKY.—Zur Behandlung der Phthise mittelst In- 
halationen von Natrium benzoicum. Wiener medizin- 
ische Presse. 1879, XX, 1330. 

W. KOCHS. — Uber eine Methode zur Bestimmung der Topo- 
graphic des Chemismus im tierischen Korper. Pfluger's 
Archiv fur die gesammte Physiologic, 1879, XX, 64. 

JAARSVELD AND STOKVIS.— Uber den Einfluss von 
Nierenaffectionen auf Bildung von Hippursaure. Archiv 
fur experimen telle Pathologie und Pharmacologie, 1879, 
X, 268. 

WEISKE. — Uber Hippursaurebildung im tierischen Organis- 
mus. Zeitschrift fur Biologic, 1879. XV, 618. 

WINTER. — Zur therapeutischen Verwendung der Benzoe- 
saure und des benzoesauren Natrons. (Abstract) 
Schmidt's Jahrbucher fur die gesammte Medizin, 1880 
CLXXXVI, 121. 

R. KOBERT.— (Nach eigenen im Verein mit Dr. Schulte 
angefuhrten Untersuchungen.) Zur Kenntniss der 

Wirkung der Benzoesaure. Schmidt's Jahrbucher fur 
die gesammte Medizin, 1880. CLXXXV. 12. 

49 



Digitized by 



Google 



WEYL AND ANREP.— Uber die Ausscheidung der Hippur- 
saure und Benzoesaure wahrend des Fiebers. Zeitschrift 
fur physiologische Chemie, 1880, IV, 169. 

E. SALKOWSKI.— Notizen. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie, 1880, IV, 135. 

SCMIEDEBERG.— Uber Ozydationen und Synthesen im 
Tierkorper. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und 
Pharmacologic, 1881, XIV, 288. 

SCMIEDEBERG.— Uber Spaltungen und Synthesen im 
Tierkorper. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und 
Pharmacologic, 1881, XIV, 379. 

C. VIRCHOW. — Uber die Einwirkung des benzocsauren und 
salicysauren Natrons auf den Elweissumsatz in Korpcr. 
Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1882, VI, 78. 

SALKOWSKI. — Weitere Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Harn- 
stoddbildung. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 
1882-1883, VII, 93. 

J. SCHIFFER.— Weitere Beitrage zum Verhalten des Sarko- 
sins im tierischen Organismus. Zeitschrift fur physiolo* 
gische Chemie, 1882-1883, VII, 479. 

E. SALKOWSKI AND H. SALKOW SKI. -;- Uber das Ver- 
halten der aus dem Eiweiss durch Faulniss entstehenden 
aromatischen Sauren im Tierkorper. Zeitschrift fur 
physiologische Chemie, 1882-1883, VII, 161. 

E. BAUMANN. — Zur Kenntniss der aromatischen Substan- 
zen des Tierkorpers. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie, 1883, VII, 553. 

SCHOTTEN.— Uber die Quelle der Hippursaure im Harn. 
Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1883, VIII, 60. 

KRONECKER.— Uber die Hippursaurebildung beim Men- 
schen in Krankheiten. Archiv fur experimentelle Patho- 
logic und Pharmacologic, 1883, XVI, 344. 




gitized by 



Google 



MINKNOSKL— Uber Spaltungen im Tierkorper. Archiv 
fur experi men telle Pathologic und Pharmacologie, 1883, 
XVII, 455. 

VAN DE VELDE AND STOKVIS.— Experi mentelle Bei- 
trage zur Frage der Hippursaurezcriegung im lebenden 
Organismus. Archiv fur experi mentelle Pathologie und 
Pharmacologie, 1883, XVII, 189. 

E. SALKOWSKI.— Uber das Vorkommen der Phenacetur- 
saure im Ham und die Ensrehing der aromatischen 
Substanzen beim Herbivoren. Zeitschrift fur physiolo- 
gische Chemie, 1885, IX, 229. 

E. SALKOWSKL— Zur Kenntniss der Eiweissfaulniss III. 

Uber die nicht hydroxylierten aromatischen Sauren. 
Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1885, IX, 491. 

NOEL PATON.^On the relationship of urea formation to 
bile secretion. Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. 
1886, XX, 114, 267. 

F. BAUMAN. — Die aromatischen Verbindungen im Ilarne 

und die Darmfaulniss. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie, 1886, X, 123. 

BAAS. — Uber das Verbal ten des Ty rosins zur Hippursaure- 
bildung. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1887, 
II, 485. 

M. KUMAGAWA. — Uber die Wirkung einiger antipyre- 
tischer Mittel auf den Eiweissumsatz im Organismus. 
Virchow*s Archiv fur pathologische Anatomic, 1888, 
CXIII, 134. 

MOERNER. — Eine Vergiftung durch Natrium benzoicum. 
Central blatt fur die medizinische Wissenschaften, 1888, 
XXVI, 545. 

R. COIIN. — Uber das Auftreten von Bensamind, etc. Zeit- 
schrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1890, XIV, 202. 

51 



Digitized by 



Google 



C. BINZ. — ^Vorlesungen uber Pharmacologie, zweite Auflage, 
1891. Berlin, Hirschwald, p. 594. 

R. COHN. — Uber das Auftreten, etc. Zeitschrift fur physi- 
ologische Chemie, 1892, XVII, 310. 

VOGL. — Realencyclopadie der gesammten Heilkunde 
(Eulenburg) 8. Auflage. Leipzig, 1894, III, 229. 

VON JACKSCH.— Die Vergiftungen. Specielle Pathologic 
und Therapie (Nothnagel) Vienna, 1897, I, 357. 

SIRECI. — Uber die Ausscheidung der Hippursaure. Maly's 
Jahresbericht fur Thierchemie, 1897, XXVII, 325. 

SIRECI. — Sulla eliminazione dell' acido bippurcia. Gazetta 
degli Espedali e delle clinche, 1896, XVII, 496. 

WEHMER. — Einige vergleichende Versuche uber das anti- 
septische Verhalten der Benzoesaure, etc. Chemiker 
Zeitung, 1897, XXI, 78. Chemisches Centralblatt, 
1897, 1, 548. 

PFEIFFER AND EBER (in Verbindungen mit Gotze und 
Muller). — ^Beitrag zur Frage uber die Bildung der Hip- 
pursaure im tierischen Organismus. Die Landwrit- 
schaftliche VersuchssUtionen, 1898, XLIX, 97-144. 



J. POHL. — Uber Synthesenhemmung durch Diamine. 
Archiv fur experir — '^""~ ti-^i--i-_;- — j -m^ 

logic, 898, XLI, 97 



Archiv fur cxpcrimcntelle Pathologic und Pharmaco- 
1, 



WEINER.— Uber das GlykojoU als intermediares Stoff- 
wechselproduct. Archiv fur experimentellc Pathologic 
und Pharmacologic, 1898, XL, 313. 

KUNKLE.— -Handbuch der Toxikologie. Jena, G. Fisher, 
p. 550. 

K. SPIRO. — Uber Nachweis und Vorkommen des Glyko- 
joUs. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1899, 
XXVIII, 174. 

52 



Digitized by 



Google 



H. LEFFMANN. — Digestive ferments, with special reference 
to the eflFect of food preservatives. Journal of Franklin 
Institute, 1899, CXLVII, 97. 

SALKOWSKI.— Uber die antiseptische Wirkung von Sali- 
cylaldehyed und Benzoesaureanhydrid. Virchow*s Ar- 
chiv fur pathologische Anatomic, 1899, CLVII, 416. 

ASHHURST. — Certain eflFects of benzoic acid upon the 
urine. Philadelphia Medical Journal, February 24, 1900. 

BLUMENTHAL.— -Zur Methode der Hippursaurebestim- 
mung. Zeitschrift fur klinische Medizin, 1900, XL, 339. 

M. LEWANDOWSKY.— Versuche uber den Einfluss der 
Benzoesaure auf die Harnsaurebildung. Zeitschrift fur 
klinische Medizin, 1900, XL, 202. 

ABELOUS AND RIBAULT.— Sur Fexistence d'un ferment 
soluble operant la synthese de I'acide hippurique aux 
depend du glycocoUe et de I'acide benzoique. Competes 
Rendus de la Societe de Biologie, June 9, 1900. 

WEINTRAUD.—Uber den Anbau des Nucleins im Stoflf- 
wechsel. Centralblatt fur innere Medizin, 1900, XXL, 
464. 

PARKER AND LUSK.— On the maximum production of 
hippuric acid in rabbits. American Journal of Physi- 
ology, 1900, 111, 472. 

E. CURTIS. — Benzoic acid and benzoates. Reference Hand- 
book of the Medical Sciences, 1900, Vol. I. 

R. COHN. — Uber den Glykokollvorrath des tierischen Or- 
ganismus. Festschrift fur N. Jaffe, Braunschweig, 
1900 or 1901, p. 319. 

H. ULRICHI. — Uber pharmacologischc Beeiuflussung der 
Harnsaureausscheidung. Archiv fur experimentelle Pa- 
thologic und Pharmacologic, 1901, XLVI, 321. 

53 



Digitized by 



Google 



BERNINZONE.—Sulla sintesi fisiologica dell' acido ippu- 
rico. Boll. d. R. Accad. med. di Genova, 1901, 16 
No. VI. 47. 

K. SIEBERT.— Uber die aach Benzaldehyd und Benzoe- 
sauredarreuchung im Hara auftretenden reducierenden 
Stoffe. Inaugural Dissertation, Konigsberg, 1901. 

C. LEWIN. — Beitrage zura Hippursaurestoffwcchsel des 
Menschen. Zeitschrift fur klinische Medizin, 1901, 
XLII, 871. 

Report of the Department Committee appointed to inquire 
into the Use of Preservatives and Coloring Matters in 
the Preservation and Coloring of Food (together with 
minutes of evidence, appendix and index), London, 901. 

WEITZEL.— Uber die Labgerinnung der Kuhmilch unter 
dem Einfluss von Borpraparaten und anderen chemi- 
schen Stoffen. Arbeiten aus dem kaiserlichen Gesund- 
heitsstand, 1902, XIX, 126. 

REM-PICCI. — Uber cine neue Methode fur die Bestimmung 
der Hippursaure im Menschenharn. Maly's Jahresbe- 
richt fur Thierchemie, 1902, XXXII, 316. (From 
Archivio di farmac, speriment e science affini, 1902, 1, 7.) 

R. COHN. — Zur Frage der Glykokollbildung aus Leucin im 
tierischen Organismus. Archiv fur experimentelle Patho- 
logic und Pharmacologic, 1902, XLVIII, 177. 

E. BASHFORD AND W. CRAMER.— Uber die Synthese 

der Hippursaure im Tierkorper. (Preliminary Report) 
Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1902, XXXV, 586. 

F. SOETBEER.— Kontrolle der Blumenthalschen Methode 

der Hippursaurebestimmung. Zeitschrift fur physiolo- 
gische Chemie, 1902, XXXV, 588. 

SALKOWSKI.— Uber die Stoffwechselwirkung der Benzoe- 
saure, etc. Internationale Beitrage fur innere Medizin. 
Festschrift fur v. Leyden, Berlin, 1902, II, 27. 

54 



Digitized by 



Google 



HUPFER. — Einwirkung von Chinasaure auf Harnsaure und 
Hippursaure ausscheidung. Zeitschrift fur physiolo- 
gische Chemie, 1902-1903, XXXVII, 302. 

A. KANGER. — Zur Frage uber die chem. ZusammensetzuDg 
und die pharmacologische Wirkung der Preiselbeere 
(Vaccinium vitis idaea L.). Archiv fur cxperimen telle 
Pathologie und Pharmacologie, 1903, L, 46. 

REM-PICCI. — Uber die Umwandlung der Benzoesaure in 
Hippursaure bei Nierenkranken. (Bollettino della R. 
Accademia Medica de Roma, XXX, 1-21). Maly's 
Jahresbericht fur Tierchemie, 1903, XXXIII, 102. 

PFEIFFER, BLOCH AND RIECKE.— Fine neue Methode 
zur Bestimmung der Hippursaure. Mitteilungen des 
landwirthschaftlichen Instituts der Universitat Breslau, 
1903, II, 273. 

MOOSE AND NEITBERG.— Uber den physiologischen Ab- 
bau von Jodalbumminen. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie, 1903, XXXVII, 427. 

R. KOBERT.— Lehrbuch der Intoxikationen. II. Band. 
Spezieller Teil. I. Halfte, p. 115. Stuttgart, Ferdinand 
Enke, 1904. 

E. PRIBRAM. — Zur Lehre von den physiologischen Wirk- 
ungen carbocylischer Sauren. Archiv fur experimentelle 
Pathologie und Pharmacologic, 1904, LI, 372. 

GERHARDT.— Uber Darmfaulniss. Ergebnisse der Physio- 
logic, 1904, III, 138. 

BLUMENTHAL AND BRAUNSTEIN.— Uber die quanti- 
tative Hippursaurebestimmung beim Menschen. Hof- 
meister's Beitrage zur chemischen Physiologic, 1904, 
VI, 150. 

KNOOP. — der Abbau aroraatischer Fettsauren im Tier- 
korper. Hofmeister's Beitrage zur chemischen Physio- 
logic, 1904, VI, 150. 

55 



Digitized by 



Google 



S. AMBERG AND A. LOEVENHART.— Further observa- 
tions, etc. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1908, IV, 
119. 

LEWINSKI. — Uber die Grenzen der Hippursaurebildung 
beim Menschen. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic 
und Pharmacologic, 1908, LVITI, 397. 

SEO. — Uber die Hippursaurespaltung durch Bacterien, etc. 
Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und Pharmacologic, 
1908, LVIII, 440. 

H. W. WILEY, with the collaboration of W. D. Bigelow, 
F. C. Weber and others. — Influence of Food Preserva- 
tives and Artificial Colors on Digestion and Health. IV. 
Benzoic Acid and Benzoates. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry. Bulletin No. 84, 
Part VI, 1043-1294, 1908. (Withdrawn.) 

REFEREE BOARD OF CONSULTING SCIENTIFIC 
EXPERTS.-— "Influence of Sodium Benzoate on the 
Nutrition and Health of Man." (Experimentation, Yale 
University, New Haven, Conn.; Columbia University, 
New York, N. Y.; Northwestern University, Chi- 
cago, 111.) 



58 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE McCONNELL PRINTING CO.. 
230-242 William St., N. Y. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



Digitized by 



Google 



HC 3Ska u 



tUUM. 



3 2044 046 016 309 




Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 




*B 543 5flT 



c 



ood 
Preservation 




bo 
V3 



n^Pdhverooqie 



n. . , 

LIBRARY 

OF THE 

University of California. 

OIFT OF 



..l.-.^i^-^La 



Class 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC . 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Food Preservation 



>JV 1909 



'T^HIS BOOK is not intended 
"'■ for public sale, but has 
been prepared for distribution to 
those who may be interested in 
the subjects of which it treats. 



Issued by 
The National Association for the Promotion of Public Health 

»» NewYoik 

1909. 

Of THC \ 

UNIVERSITY ) 

OF / 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Food Preservation 



A Statement of Facts in the Case, 

Together with References 

to The Authorities 



Issued by 
The National Association for the Promotion of Public Health 

k» NewYoik 

1909. 



^ Of THt 



UNIVERSITY 

OF 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 






v^ 









Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 

Page 

Acetic Acid, 17, 19, 27, 28, 29, 36, 37 

Appert Process, 6 

Asepsis: 

Discovery of, 7 

Bacteria: 

Growth in Tomato Pulp, 13 

Benzoate of Soda: 

Discovery of, 11 

Nature of, H 

Derivation of, 12, 38 

Experiments with, 17 

Manufacturer's View of, 14 

Bibliography, 46 

Canning, 18 

Catsups: 

Analyses of, 29 

Condiments, 6, 14, 18 

Concealment of Impurities, 15, 16, 37 

Cooking: 

EfiFectsof, 6 

Decay: 

Process of, 5 

Food Inspection Decision, No. 104, 24 

Frauenthal, Dr. H. W., 27 

Gordon, Read, 36 

Heat: 

Chemical Action of, 8, 12 

Hurty, Dr. J. H., 35 

Kleber, Dr. demons, 33 



: .^ i J 1 Digitized by GoOglC 



INDEX— Conimued 

Page 

Kedzie, Dr. Frank, 41 

Kremers, Professor Edward, 41 

Mason, Glen F., 30 

Mueller, Sebastian, 40 

"Poison Squad:'' 

Dr. Wiley's Experiment, 20 

Criticism of Method, 21 

Preservatives: 

Object of, 5, 7, SO, 37 

Eariy Method of 5, 27 

Methods Compared, 6, 15, 27 

Natural, in Fruits, 10 

Necessity of, 30, 37 

Pure Food Law, 18, 36 

Remsen Board: 20 

Personnel of, 22 

Questions to, 23 

Findings of, 23 

Authorities Consulted by, 25, 46 

Spices: 

Properties of, 35 

Essential Oils of, 27, 33, 37 

EfiFect of, 8, 33, 35 

Classed as Drugs, 14, 38 

Sharpies, Dr. S. P., 35 

Smith, Dr. E. E., 13, 21, 36 

Vaughan, Prof. Victor C, 42 

Wiley, Dr. H. W., 12, 20, 39 



Digitized by 



Google 



Foreword 

Around the subject of proper food pres- 
ervation there recently has been waged 
a controversy that is not suflBciently im- 
partial or unbiased by personal considera- 
tion to be of real educational value to the 
public at large. The modern method of 
preparing food for public consumption is 
so new that even the latest scientific works 
on dietetics contain little or no allusion to 
it, and it is to supply that lack in non- 
technical language that this volume is 
issued, based upon the latest scientific ex- 
periments and data. In searching the 
literature of the subject all discussion 
that is founded upon guesswork or opin- 
ion has been eliminated. 

New York, August, 1909. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Food Preservation 

npHE question of proper food preser- 
vation is one that is of vital inter- 
est to every consumer, but, unfortunately, 
it is one that has recently been more or 
less befogged by partial and selfish com- 
mercial interests and by the heat of con- 
troversy. 

From the moment of generation of either 
fruit, vegetable or flesh there is gradual 
progress toward maturity and thence to 
decay. The object of a preservative in 
foods is to arrest that decay and to hold 
stationary until needed those materials 
which are intended for human consump- 
tion. In other words, it is the safe bank- 
ing of food products. 

The original method of preservation, 
particularly of flesh products, after the 
primitive salting and drying, was that 
known to the Egyptians when they used 
the essential oils of spices for the preserva- 
tion of their mummies. With very slight 

5 



Digitized by 



Google 



changes, this is the method that has come 
down to the present day in what is ordi- 
narily known as the "home'' method of 
preservation, except that to the essential 
oils of spices has been added vinegar, the 
whole, with the process of cooking, form- 
ing a condimental method of preserva- 
tion. Cooking is chemistry, and the 
preservative employed, leaving aside all 
question of technicalities, is acetic acid and 
the essential oils of spices. A distinction 
should be kept in mind between what may 
be called "canned'' goods, which by the 
Appert process — heat, sterilization and 
hermetic sealing — require no other pre- 
servative, and condimental substances, 
such as catsup, jams, preserves and jellies. 
The preparation of the latter, unless a 
preservative is used, requires heavy boiling 
in open kettles, thus increasing oxidization 
and reducing the whole to a pulpy mass 
which has lost its original form, color and 
taste. The restoration of color and taste 
is the mission of condiments, to which also 
is added the preservative qualities of the 
condiments used. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Perhaps the greatest step forward in the 
preservation of material was made when 
Lord John Lister, the eminent Scotch sur- 
geon, discovered the septic action of mat- 
ter, and it is this fact that has been taken 
advantage of and worked out by all 
chemists. The working of the law is that 
if you would prevent decay you must 
forestall the tendency thereto, and this 
tendency is found in the normal presence 
of bacteria. The thing that will over- 
come this tendency to deterioration must 
necessarily be the employment of some 
agent having either a prophylactic or 
antiseptic quality • In plain language, 
the preservative, to be a preservative, 
must hold within itself the power of de- 
stroying the bacteria without injury to the 
ingredients or component parts of the 
fruit, vegetable or flesh to be preserved, 
which, if left to themselves, would go 
through the necessary processes to final 
dissolution. We are, therefore, forced to 
the conclusion that if a spice preserves 
an apple the spice must have a sufficient 
power to destroy or retard the development 



^NlVERSlTy i D\g\t\ze6 by GOOglC 

Of ^ * 



of the bacteria in the apple that would pro- 
duce decay, or that might find entry there 
by contact or from the air. If decay has 
already begun in even the slightest degree, 
then the spice must have the antiseptic 
power of offsetting and destroying the 
further work of the bacteria that had begun 
operations. 

Heat and the exclusion of air, as well as 
any condiment used in suflScient quantity, 
will act as a preservative and do the neces- 
sary work in preventing the natural process 
of decay. The treatment with spices in 
heavy quantities for the purpose of pre- 
serving, opens up another question at once, 
for there is a wide difference between the 
use of a limited quantity of a spice for 
flavoring, and the employment of a suflS- 
cient amount to break down or annihilate 
the whole of the natural process of deteri- 
oration. Authorities are at variance upon 
that point to a marked degree. 

The chemical action of heat on food 
materials to which had been added con- 
diments had been the sole method of pres- 
ervation for years, until modern science 

8 



Digitized by 



Google 



cast about for a more eflScient and more 
certain substitute. Many have been tried 
and practically abandoned, for it has 
been found that most chemicals which 
will preserve food will also modify digestive 
functions. At the present writing benzoate 
of soda — ^which is common soda treated 
with benzoic acid — ^is the sole preserving 
agent that has been determined by the 
highest scientific authorities to be at once 
eflBcient and also so little harmful in the 
quantities necessary to employ that meas- 
urable deleterious effect cannot be found.* 
The controversy, then, narrows itself down 
to the conflict between the old method of 
spices and vinegar and heavy cooking as 
against the innovation represented by ben- 
zoate of soda. Such controversies are 
linked with and are a part of scientific 
progress, and, in their final outcome, bene- 
ficial, j Gallileo was persecuted because he 
dared the traditional belief of ages; | the 
serum theory and anti-toxin were bitterly 

*Testimony of Dr. Harvey W. Wiley before Interstate and 
Foreign Commerce Committee of House of Representatives* 
page 311. 



<: 



Digitized by 



Google 



assailed until the death rate from diphtheria 
had been so reduced as to prove the clinch- 
ing argument; the X-ray was scoffed at. . 

THE NATURAL SAFEGUARD 

OUTTE early in the history of modem 
chemistry it was found that certain 
minor fruits possessed the quality of 
keeping indefinitely, or, to say the least, 
of postponing the inevitable process of 
decay for an extended period of time. 
The inquiring mind naturally set itself to 
asking why the cranberry, the huckleberry, 
the birch, etc., should possess this apparent 
immunity, and in the course of time it 
was discovered that under the skin of 
the berries and the bark of the tree there 
was contained a natural preservative. To 
this was given the name benzoic acid. 

There is some doubt as to whom falls the 
honor of the discovery, inasmuch as such 
investigations have usually been carried on 
independently by several experimenters, 
each unaware of the other^s labors, but it 
is certain that the medicinal properties of 
benzoin — ^the active principle of benzoic 

10 



Digitized by 



Google 



acid — has been known since shortly after 
the Elizabethan era. The use of this sub- 
stance as a preservative for foods, however, 
was not attempted, nor perhaps known, 
until a decade ago. Manufacturers of food 
products who had been using the acetic 
acid and spice method cast about for an 
equivalent that would perform the desired 
service with fewer of the drawbacks of the 
earlier or home method, and it was sug- 
gested that benzoic acid could be "cut"' or 
neutralized with soda. Exhaustive experi- 
ments were carried on along these lines, 
and after two years several firms decided 
to make use of it. This took place in 1899, 
or nearly seven years before the adoption 
of the present Food and Drug Law. 

Benzoic acid, then, we have learned, is 
actually the vital natural substance, con- 
tained in certain minor fruits and vege- 
tables, that acts as a preservative against 
decay. When combined with soda and ap- 
plied to any vegetable or animal substance, 
its action is precisely the same as in its 
natural state and place — ^it arrests the pro- 
cesses of decay. The quantity necessary 

II 



Digitized by 



Google 



adequately to prevent the process of fermen- 
tation — which is in actuality decay — ^is very 
small, and it effectually prevents the devel- 
opment of bacteria, destroying these should 
they find entry. In the form of benzoate 
of soda this preservative is a white crys- 
talline substance, and it is colorless, odor- 
less and practically tasteless. That which 
is used in foods is obtained from toluene, 
a coal-tar product. The impression which 
has been fostered to the effect that it is 
obtained from hippuric acid is erroneous. 
Such benzoic acid is too expensive for com- 
mercial use and is of German production. 
Importers state that not an ounce is sold 
in this country for use in foods. Dr. H. W. 
Wiley has stated: "In so far as I know, 
none of this particular kind of benzoic acid 
is used in foods.''* 

HEAT NOT ALWAYS EFFECTIVE 

TT has already been made clear that 

comparatively few food products require 

a preservative other than heat. In the ma*- 

jority of processes it is unnecessary, such, 

^Testimony before Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
Committee of the House of Representatives. 

12 



Digitized by 



Google 



for instance, as the strictly canning indus- 
tries, in which fruits, vegetables, soups or 
meats are put up as "air-tights'' and are in- 
tended to be used entirely and immediately 
as soon as the package is opened. These re- 
quire no preservative of any sort. It is only 
in products that are intended for gradual 
consumption that any preservative is 
necessary, and by gradual consumption 
is meant this: that a jar of fruit preserves 
may be purchased, opened and left upon 
the table or in an icebox for a week possi- 
bly, until it is entirely consumed. Herein 
the danger lies, for, as Professor E. E. 
Smith, of Fordham University, has shown 
in his experiments along this line, bacteria 
in an unpreserved product develop with 
amazing rapidity.* The exact figures may 
be interesting, and these are as follows: 

Fresh ripe fruit, sterilized and sealed, 
was laid away for a period of three months. 
It was then opened and tested for bacteria. 
None was found. Three days later the bac- 
terial presence was found to be 8,850 per 

*Report to the Central Medical Society of Connecticut, 
delivered at Middletown, Feb. 8, 1909. 

13 



Digitized by 



Google 



cubic centimetre (about a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful) ; on the sixth day this amount had 
grown to 244,846,000 per cubic centimetre. 
This serves fitly to illustrate the situation 
where no preservative — chemical or condi- 
mental — ^is used. We have learned in an 
earlier portion of these pages that spices, 
etc., serve as preservatives, and yet when 
we buy certain brands of preserves we are 
informed upon the label that '^no preserva- 
tives'' are used. In the interpretation 
of the law this possibly is correct, for 
condiments are not classed as "preserva- 
tives,'' but the fact remains that spices 
or condiments are chemicals and also 
drugs, and we find them so listed in the 
Pharmacopeia. The statement upon the 
label may then be called a technical eva- 
sion permitted by law. 

THE MANUFACTURER'S VIEW 

TN order to ascertain the commercial argu- 
ment supporting the use of benzoate 
of soda a letter was addressed to a promi- 
nent firm of manufacturers asking their 
reasons. The reply was to the effect that 
during the time of their experimenting 

14 



Digitized by 



Google 



and undertaking to get along without an 
added preservative, they found it was 
absolutely impossible to make a catsup 
that would keep sweet until entirely con- 
sumed, without the aid of some preserving 
agent. They did, however, discover that 
they could make catsup that would keep, 
and this manner of manufacture was the 
same as employed by our mothers, viz.: 
by cooking the whole substance down until 
it had entirely lost its original color and 
tomato flavor and then adding heavy quan- 
tities of spices and vinegar. They expressed 
the belief that there is no question but that 
these goods must have a preservative of 
some kind, whether it be benzoate of soda 
or excessive amounts of acetic acid (vine- 
gar) and spice products, and from what 
they had learned these latter are more 
injurious to health than the former. 

In this connection it is well to observe 
that the axis of the argument against ben- 
zoate of soda has been supported upon a 
wholesale declaration that benzoate of 
soda was and is used to conceal or cover up 
inferiority of material in the preparation 

15 



Digitized by 



Google 



of various products, and that this was and 
is the sole and only reason for its use. 
Broadly stated, this assertion comes down 
to the charge that manufacturers are en- 
abled to use skins, parings and refuse gen- 
erally in the preparation of their products, 
and that this enables them to put forth a 
class of goods, bearing every outward ap- 
pearance of the first-class article, at prac- 
tically no initial cost for material, and, by 
inference, a class of articles that must of 
necessity be built upon filth and decay. 
No statement could be more diametrically 
opposed to the fact than this. With a 
preservative that has neither color nor 
odor, and with practically no taste, it is 
manifestly impossible to conceal either 
decay, offensive odor, or rotten taste. 

CONCEALING IMPURITIES 

TT would seem proper in this instance to 
^ make an inquiry. Which would be the 
more available to an unscrupulous manu- 
facturer who had on hand a consignment 
of rotten or decayed fruit that he wished 
to preserve — a small quantity of a tasteless, 

i6 



Digitized by 



Google 



odorless and colorless salt, or abnormal 
quantities of heavy and pungent oils and 
spices together with long and continued 
boiling? 

In a recent legal action in Indiana* 
an interesting experiment was reported 
in court. A food chemist in the em- 
ploy of a large firm of manufacturers pro- 
duced a considerable amount of tomato 
pulp that had been prepared for preserv- 
ing, and which he testified was made of 
unfit material, partly decomposed, — ^the 
refuse of the factory. 

This pulp had been divided into three 
parts. The first had been left untreated; 
to the second had been added an amount 
of benzoate of soda considerably in excess 
of that usually employed. To the third 
had been added vinegar that was strong in 
acetic acid and the essential oil of spices. 
The first remained in its previous inedible 
condition; the second showed no change, 
while the third had altered its color from 



*In the Circuit Court of the United States for the District 
of Indiana, No. 10894, in equity. 

17 



Digitized by 



Google 



a dirty brown to a bright red, and the 
offensive effluvia changed to an appetizing 
and pungent odor. 

MEANING OF THE PURE FOOD LAW 

T^HE Pure Food and Drug Law of 1906 
went a long way toward insuring pure 
and unadulterated food products to the 
consumer. No honest manufacturer can 
raise any objection to its provisions, 
and investigation has shown that none 
such has been raised. The principal crit- 
icism that may be ventured is that the 
law is not sufficiently drastic as it stands, 
and that it offers loopholes for commercial 
misrepresentation, of which advantage has 
been taken. One scientist has said that 
*Hhe food laws of this country are upside 
down. All manufacturers of food products, 
fruits, vegetables or meats, should be com- 
pelled to use a preservative substance and 
its omission should be made a criminal 
offense.'' 

In this law a technical distinction has 
been made in the wording between "condi- 
mentaF' and ^'chemical'' preservatives. 

i8 



Digitized by 



Google 



Speaking more exactly, the law says that 
any substance "added solely as a preserva- 
tive'" must be indicated upon the label. 
Vinegar and spices are not "added solely 
as a preservative/' They are introduced 
ostensibly as condiment or flavor, but also 
because their use will have a preservative 
effect, and it is not legally compulsory to 
indicate upon the label the acetic acid that 
is found in such foods. It is under this 
technicality that the "no preservative'' 
claim is made freely in advertising and 
other matter, which is, to a considerable 
extent, misleading. 



19 



Digitized by 



Google 



A REVIEW OF THE FINDINGS 

t'OR many months a widespread agitation 
^ has been going on in this country over 
this question of preservatives. Stripping 
the discussion of unauthorized and unscien- 
tific statements, and eliminating from it all 
the inspired matter that has been pub- 
lished, the situation simmers itself down 
to the point of actual experimentation to 
ascertain the effects of benzoate of soda 
upon the human system. There have been 
two series in this country. The first was 
conducted by Dr. H. W. Wiley, Chief of 
the Bureau of Chemistry of the United 
States Department of Agriculture, and the 
second by the so-called Remsen Scientific 
Referee Board, appointed by Secretary 
of Agriculture Wilson, in accordance with 
instructions from President Roosevelt, and 
composed of five of the most eminent 
scientists in the country. The findings of 
both of these havie been very largely mis- 
represented, for they are, in effect, not very 
widely apart. 

In the original report of Dr. Wiley* it 
was shown, with every appearance of verity, 

♦Bulletin 84, Bureau of Chemistry, U. S. Dept. of Agricul- 
ture. Since recalled as unofficial. 

20 



Digitized by 



Google 



that the experiments upon the twelve mem- 
bers of the "poison squad" who were sub- 
jected to the tests had indicated "strongly 
marked physiological modifications/* and 
that the whole digestive system had been 
upset. By referring to the report we dis- 
cover that these experiments were carried 
on for a period of only thirty days, which 
had been divided into three sub-periods. 
These consisted of a "fore period" of five 
days, in which no benzoate of soda was 
given to the subjects, but in which they 
were merely prepared for the test to come; 
then the actual period of the administra- 
tion of the salt during twenty continuous 
days; and then an "after period" of five 
days, in which the system was supposed to 
readjust itself. This bulletin was issued 
without proper departmental authority, 
and, in fact, in opposition to direct in- 
structions pending a review of the case. 
The belief, therefore, that the Department 
of Agriculture had prohibited the use of 
benzoate of soda as a preservative was con- 
sequently erroneous. 

In a paper printed in the Medical Record 
of January 2, 1909, by Professor E. E. 

21 



Digitized by 



Google 



Smith, that author says: "A careful and 
painstaking analysis of the work of the 
chief chemist of the Department of Agri- 
culture shows that a curious condition ex- 
isted at the time of the experiment. Of the 
twelve men who served as subjects eleven 
were suflFering from some form of physical 
derangement before, during and after 
the experiments. The one who was free 
from any such indications was the only one 
reported who did not suflFer from the so- 
called injurious effects of benzoate of soda, 
while each of the eleven others indicated 
exactly those symptoms which would have 
occurred as a natural result of their condi- 
tion, whether the preservative had been 
administered or not." 

The Remsen Scientific Referee Board, ap- 
pointed by President Roosevelt to review 
the work of the Bureau of Chemistry be- 
cause of the questions raised as to the scien- 
tific value and accuracy of the work of the 
bureau, consisted of Professor Ira Rem- 
sen, president of Johns Hopkins Univer- 
sity; Professor Russell H. Chittenden, of 
Yale University; Dr. Christian A. Herter, 

22 



Digitized by 



Google 



^ Of THE 

UNIVERSITY 

or 



of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York; Professor 
John H. Long, of Northwestern Univer- 
sity, Chicago, and Professor Alonzo E. 
Taylor, of the University of California.* 
This board conducted a series of experi- 
ments in three cities simultaneously, and 
covered a period of about three months. 
The questions put to the board were: 

(1) "Does a food to which there has been added 
benzoic acid, or any of its salts, contain any added 
poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient 
which may render the said food injurious to health? 

(i) (a) "In large quantities? (b) In small 
quantities? 

(3) "If benzoic acid or any of its salts be mixed 
or packed with a food, is the quality or strength of 
said food thereby reduced, lowered or injuriously 
affected? (a) In large quantities? (b) In small 
quantities?" 

The general conclusions of the board 

were: 

(1) "Sodium benzoate in small doses (under 0.5 
gram per day) mixed with the food is without 
deleterious or poisonous action and is not injurious 
to health. 



*Prof. Taylor did not participate in the experiments, but 
travelled in Europe searching the foreign literature. 

23 



Digitized by 



Google 



(2) "Sodium benzoate in large doses (up to 4 
grams per day) mixed with the food has not been 
found to exert any deleterious effect on the general 
health, nor to act as a poison in the general ac- 
ceptation of the term. In some directions there 
were slight modifications in certain physiological 
processes, the exact significance of which modifica- 
tions is not known. 

(3) "The admixture of sodium benzoate with 
food in small or large doses has not been found to 
injuriously affect or impair the quality or nutri- 
ent value of such food." 

As a result of this the following decision 
was made by the Department of Agricul- 
ture, under date of March 3, 1909: 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 104 

Amendmeitt ta Food Inspection Decisions No. 76 and No. 89, 
Relating to the Use in Foods of Benzoate of Soda. 

The Referee Board of Consulting Scientific 
Experts, composed of Dr. Ira Remsen, Dr. Russell 
H. Chittenden, Dr. John H. Long, Dr. Alonzo E. 
Taylor, and Dr. C. A. Herter, have reported upon 
the use of benzoate of soda in foods. The board 
reports, as a result of three extensive and exhaus- 
tive investigations, that benzoate of soda mixed 
with food is not deleterious or poisonous and is 
not injurious to health. The summary of the 
report of the Referee Board is published herewith. 

It having been determined that benzoate of 
soda mixed with food is not deleterious or poison- 
ous and is not injurious to health, no objection 
will be raised under the Food and Drug Act to 

24 



Digitized by 



Google 



the use in food of benzoate of soda, provided that 
each container or package of such food is plainly 
labeled to show the presence and amount of ben- 
zoate of soda. 

Food Inspection Decisions 76 and 89 are 
amended accordingly. 

GEORGE B. COETELYOU, 

Secretary of the Treasury. 
JAMES WILSON, 

Secretary of Agriculture, 

OSCAE S. STRAUS, 

Secretary of Commerce and Labor. 

This, then, is all that stands as authority 
on this subject in this country, either 
governmental or scientific. In reaching its 
conclusions, however, the Remsen Board 
was not content to rest upon its own 
original investigations, for a careful search 
was made of the European authorities, one 
hundred and twenty-seven in all, some in 
the form of complete works, some in the 
form of special articles in the technical 
press, and others as Government reports. 
Many of these experiments were performed 
upon animals, a considerable number upon 
human beings; some others had for their ob- 
ject the determination of the actual eflFect 
of the salt upon bacteria. One discussed 

25 



Digitized by 



Google 



the treatment of tuberculosis by benzoic 
inhalation, and the rest merely considered 
the reports of others. 

Others who may be considered as au- 
thorities have touched the subject in 
its various details, and their opinions are 
here appended. 



26 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Two Preservative Methods 
Compared 

Statement of HENRY W. FRAUENTHAL, A.C., M.D. 

Surgeon-in-Chief, Hospital for Deformities and Joint Diseases, New York, 
and President of the National Association for the Promotion of Public Health 



Regarding the methods of preservation to-day, it 
may he said that there are two and two only in use 
by reputable manufacturers, and around them a 
considerable war is being waged by commercial in- 
terests in which I have no part. I regard both as 
good, under reasonable use. The first of these is as 
old as civilization and, with some modifications, is 
the method used by the Egyptians to preserve their 
dead. They used the essential oil of spices. The 
"home" method or process used by some manu- 
facturers is the same, with the addition of 
vinegar; the whole, during the process of cooking — 
which is purely a chemical operation — ^resulting in 
the creation within the food itself of the chemical 
known as acetic acid. 

The other method is that evolved by the mod- 
ern chemist to take the place of the boiling and 
spicing. Various chemicals have been used — some 
too powerful in retarding fermentation to be ad- 
visable — until, after much experiment, benzoate of 
soda was considered to be harmless, or, at least, 
so infinitesimally harmful that it could not be 
measured. There is really no diflFerence of opinion 
between authorities upon this point. The array 
includes practically all chemists of note, even 

27 



Digitized by 



Google 



including the chief chemist of the food concern 
which is most prominently in opposition. It even 
includes Dr. H. W. Wiley, of Washington, who has 
gone on record in awom testimony* not only that 
in certain classes of foods a preservative is needed, 
but also that benzoate of soda is the least to be 
feared. 

For myself there is very little choice, since 
either method will preserve the food and give the 
protection that is needed. Both methods may 
undoubtedly be abused by unscrupulous manu- 
facturers. The heavy odor and taste of the spices 
and condiments make it possible to deceive the 
nose and make palatable the use of food material 
that would otherwise be rejected. Benzoate of 
soda, on the oth^ hand, is as transparent as a 
piece of plate glass, and, while it will keep partly 
decayed food from getting any worse, it will not 
make bad food any better or conceal its use by the 
addition of another taste or odor. Another point 
in favor of the latter method is, it seems to me, 
that it would require a far heavier dose of benzoate 
of soda to produce an appreciable effect upon the 
system than of acetic acid. The amount of acetic 
acid in a bottle of catsup, for instance^ if separ- 
ated and taken clear, would produce most painful 
results. Moreover, foods that are preserved by 
this method will be found to contain an amount 
of acetic acid from three to five times greater than 
those which depend upon the amount of benzoate 
of soda sanctioned by the Grovernm^it. 



^Hearings before the Committee on Interstate and 
Foreign Commerce of the House of Bepresentatives, Wash- 
ington, 1906. (See i>age 88). 



Digitized by 



Google 



BENZOATE OF SODA vs. ACETIC ACID 

It has been stated in the foregoing that where 
benzoate of soda was not employed as a preserva- 
tive a far greater amount of acetic acid would be 
found to be contained in the goods. For pur- 
poses of experiment four leading brands of catsup 
were purchased in the open market and submitted 
for analysis to the Lederle Laboratories in New 
York and to Dr. S. P. Sharpies in Boston. Fol- 
lowing are the results: 







Acetic Acid. 


Benzoate of Soda. 


Sample.* 


Label Sutement. 












New York 


Boston 


New York 


Boston 


A 


Preserved with 
1-10 of Iper cent 
of B. of S. 












.68 


.66 


.0133 


.01 


B 


Contains no chem- 












ical preservative. 


2.11 


1.08 


.007 


.000 


C 


Prepared only with 
vinegar, spices. 












onions and garlic 


1.21 


1.14 


.007 


.000 


CO 


(Same manufac- 
turer.) Contains 
1-10 of 1 per 












cent, of B. of S . 


.... 


.66 


.... 


.01 


D 


Prepared without a 
chemical preser- 






















vative 


1.30 


1.32 


.000 


.000 









It is perfectly clear from the above that where 
one-tenth of 1 per cent benzoate of soda has been 
used the amount of acetic acid has been reduced 
materially. That is to say, in comparison between 
samples A and B, we find that sample A, which 
contained benzoate of soda, showed but .68 per cent 
of acetic acid, as against 2.11 per cent of acetic 
acid in sample B. Comparing the two samples 
C and CC, the one containing benzoate of soda 
and the other not, we find that where it was omit- 
ted the amount of acetic acid rose to 1.14 per cent. 

*Name8 will be furnished on application. 
29 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Necessity of Some Preservative 

GLEN. F. MASON 
Chemist for H. J. Heinz Company 

Extracts from Address at Eighth Annual Convention of the National Association 
of State Dairy and Pood DepartmenU, St. Louis, Mo. 



The necessity of a preservative in fruit and 
vegetable products has been called to my attention 
upon numerous occasions in connection with work 
in the laboratory during the past year. Tomato 
products were used as a basis for research in a great 
many instances. Every possible means of pre- 
serving with none but natural agencies were used, 
but without satisfactory results. Tomatoes were 
pulped in the laboratory, the bottles thoroughly 
sterilized, and then filled to top with pulp, corked 
and sealed. These kept for about sixty hours and 
then one after the other blew out the cork and a 
rapid fermentation set in. The same scheme was 
tried again, the pulp being put in cold storage. In 
a comparatively short time this lot also fermented. 

« ^t * * * * 

When the question of which preservative should 
be used I think all agree on benzoate of soda. 
Most of the ordinary chemical preservatives which 
have the power to preserve these articles are 
more or less injurious to the human system. 

* :|c 4c ♦ ♦ ♦ 

I know of no case on record where death or even 
serious illness was caused by benzoate of soda, and 

30 



Digitized by 



Google 



I see no reason why it should not be preferable to 
any other chemical preservative. 

♦ ♦♦*♦« 

It has been stated by competent authority that 
salicylic acid produces chronic dyspepsia. No 
such results have ever been tabulated against 
benzoic acid. Numerous other preservatives have 
all such records, but nowhere will you find benzoic 
acid spoken of as a poison. 

* 4e « ♦ « « 

In case a preservative was not used in an easily 
fermentable article, what would be the result? 
The consumer would be eating various moulds and 
introducing bacteria into his system by the millions. 
Every one knows that a human being cannot relish 
moulds such as are formed upon various fruits. 
But you say these are of no importance, as they are 
on the top and can be removed without any in- 
jurious effect upon the preserves or other product 
on which they grew. This may be true in the case 
of "home-made" preserves where it remains in the 
cellar or pantry without being molested until ready 
for consumption. 

♦ ♦««♦♦ 

The commercial preserves are shipped from one 
climate to another, usually going through some- 
what sudden changes of temperature and shaken 
up in every conceivable way; and in the meantime 
the mould, if any, which has been resting peace- 
fully on top, is mixed thoroughly with the rest of 
the fruit. Fermentation will soon set in by the 
constant, or almost constant, circulation of air, 
through the preserves, caused by constant changing 
of box from one spot to another. 



31 



Digitized by 



Google 



Then you have the absolutely pure preserves, 
free from preservatives, as they would very often 
reach the consumer. No one would take them in 
preference to the nice, clean-looking preserves, 
absolutely free from fermentation, containing only 
a very small amount of benzoate of soda. Al- 
though none of the moulds found upon fruits have 
as yet been proven as poisons in the strictest sense 
of the word, yet none of them is considered per- 
fectly harmless, and all know them to produce 
digestive disturbances. They are not pleasing to 
the eye by any means. I have collected moulds 
grown upon fruits, free from preservatives, which 
have been kept in screw-top jars. A person would 
not have to look long at them to lose his appetite, 
and merely from appearance would reject the fruit. 
Would it not be better to use a little benzoate of 
soda, and do away with these objectionable things? 

« :|c :|c • :|c 4e ♦ 

It seems to me that benzoate of soda in such 
quantities as consumed by an individual in condi- 
ments can not be injurious to the human system; 
and we can all be positive it would not be near as 
injurious as condiments put up without benzoate 
of soda, which are usually kept on the table for 
some time, producing ferments and moulds, and, 
not having proper attention paid to them, are often 
consumed in that state. 



32 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Use of Essential Oils 

Statement of Dr. CLEMONS KLEBER 

Clifton Laboratories, Passaic, N. J. 



It has been charged that the use of a preserva- 
tive such as benzoate of soda has a harmful effect 
upon the process of digestion by retarding the ac- 
tion of the natural chemical ferments of the 
stomach, but I have found it possible to prove, and 
have absolutely proved that these natural ferments 
were not really harmed at all by proper quantities 
of the preservative, but that on the contrary a 
large number of foreign and dangerous bacteria 
present, were so modified in their action as to 
give the digestive juices proper and sufficient 
time to conquer them. 

There are still many secrets in digestion, of 
course, especially with regard to the part played by 
so-called "beneficent" bacteria, but I am con- 
vinced that any possible injury done to these doubt- 
ful friends of the stomach is far outweighed by the 
protection against injurious forms of disease germs 
afforded by proper quantities of benzoate of soda 
such as are introduced into the system in the eating 
of preserved foods. And this, of course, does not 
take into consideration the protection given the 
food itself which is of inestimable value. Experi- 
ments have demonstrated over and over again that 
the chemical preservative I have named is effective 
as a preventative against dangerous conditions 
when used in reasonable quantities, and it has the 

33 



Digitized by 



Google 



additional advantage of being colorless and tasteless. 
It is thus not possible to disguise with it the 
flavor of food which has begun to putrefy. 

The essential oils of spices are, of course, all 
slightly antiseptic, and they would be exceedingly 
serviceable as food preservatives were it not for the 
fact that they are so pungent and powerful in their 
flavor. In not a single case, save perhaps that of 
pickles, when a mild thymol can be used, can they 
be eflFective as preservatives unless so much of them 
is used that their flavor is not only unpleasantly 
strong but possibly highly dangerous. I may add 
for the information of the non-technical that the 
essential oils themselves are the only antiseptic 
elements of spices; the natural spices themselves 
having no such qualities whatever, though I am 
aware that an attempt has been made to convey 
that impression. The process of obtaining or ex- 
tracting the oils from the natural condiment is 
only possible by means of an acid process. 

Apart from these facts my chief reason for the 
advocacy of benzoate of soda as a preservative of 
foods is its value to the poorer people. There is 
no doubt that preserving may be done by "apper- 
tization" — that is, by air-tight sealing of jars, the 
contents of which have been heated to the boiling 
point in the fashion of our home preserving — but 
experience has taught all of us the uncertainties 
of this process by many an unnecessary death, 
and it has this great economic disadvantage, that 
such goods must be eaten within forty-eight hours 
at most of opening. With benzoate of soda, how- 
ever, the period of safety is enormously extended, 
and while to the person of comfortable means this 
may not be important, to the small wage earner 
without refrigerating conveniences it is very seri- 

34 



Digitized by 



Google 



ous indeed. It is obvious, of course, that manu- 
facturers are not going to add more of a compar- 
atively expensive preservative than is needed. 
Personally I shall continue to demand its use in 
all such materials I purchase for my own table. 



THE PRESERVATIVE PROPERTIES OF SPICES 

In reply to a question as to the digestive qual- 
ity of spices. Dr. S. P. Sharpies, of Boston, one 
of the editorial contributors to the American Edi- 
tion of the Encyclopedia Britannica, said: "Infi- 
nitely bad. In my opinion far worse than ben- 
zoate of soda or salicylic acid, and their influence 
on the digestive functions is highly deleterious. I 
have known this for years. Spices themselves are 
the most powerful known preservatives, and have 
been known as such for thousands of years. The 
ancient Egyptians knew this and used them for 
embalming their dead. This was done so per- 
fectly by these spices that the mummies have 
lasted until this time." 

Dr. J. N. Hurty. of the Indiana State Board of 
Health, said in the Journal of the American Med- 
ical Association, under date of January 30, 1909: 
"I believe also that spices are irritants and highly 
injurious. Acetic acid extract of spices is strong 
vinegar percolated over a mixture of cloves, pep- 
per, cinnamon, etc., and there results a powerful 
antiseptic which is injurious." 

35 



Digitized by 



Google 



Holes in the Pure Food Law 

(Prom S^ringjitld [Msm.] Uniont March 19, 1909) 

As a result of his experiments Professor Smith 
has announced before the Central Medical Asso- 
ciation that: "The Pure Food and Drug Law of 
1906 has done much by demanding honest labeling 
of products, but vinegar and spices are condiments, 
and therefore do not require statement on the 
label. Acetic acid, however, is not a condiment, 
but a chemical preservative of dangerous quality 
and should be so labeled, and now that by the 
findings of the Referee Board of Chemists benzoates 
are found to be harmless, I suggest that the efforts 
of the proper authorities be directed toward prop- 
erly labeling the products containing acetic acid, 
and a rigid inspection of the raw material to see 
that it is of the proper quality." 

Read Gordon, B.S., a food chemist of national 
reputation, who last October debated the Pure 
Food law with Dr. H. W. Wiley before the Chem- 
ical Society in New York, has just expressed a 
precisely similar opinion. In an interview he has 
said: "It is highly important that, if the public 
is to be forced to consume large quantities of acetic 
acid, it should be informed of the fact on the label, 
and the law is not definitely and sincerely effective 
until this is done. The present condition permits 
the use of embalming methods with acetic acid 
and essential oils and spices that are no whit bet- 
ter than, and just as offensive as, that employed 
by the ancient Egyptians." 

36 



Digitized by 



Google 



Several Mooted Questions 
Answered 

Extracts from an Article by Dr. E. E. SMITH, Professor of Physiological 

Chemistry, Fordham University, and Director of Research, 

Red Cross Hospital, New York 



WHY AND WHEN IS A PRESERVATIVE 
NECESSARY IN FOOD? 

Vegetable products, like tomatoes, after being 
sterilized, may be kept sealed indefinitely without 
a preservative. If eaten immediately after opening, 
no preservative is necessary; if kept for more than 
a few hours they must have a preservative or they 
will spoil, exactly as fresh, ripe vegetables decay. 

WHAT PRESERVATIVES SHALL BE USED? 

Acetic acid and spices may be used; so may 
benzoate of soda. The objection to acetic acid 
and spices is that they cover the real taste and 
are far more likely to be injurious than benzoate. 
When acetic acid is used it requires as much sugar 
as in syrup to cover the strong acid taste. 

HOW^ CAN DECAY IN MATERIAL BE 
CONCEALED ? 

Decayed raw material has a bad flavor. To 
cover bad taste substances must be added which 
have a taste stronger than the decayed material. 
Benzoate of soda, in one-tenth per cent, strength, 
has no taste at all. Even the novice knows that 
acetic acid and spices obscure the flavor of raw 
material, while benzoate of soda does not. It 

37 



Digitized by 



Google 



merely preserves. If the original raw material 
is good it keeps it good; if it is bad it keeps it bad 
and does not cover the bad taste. It leaves the 
product so that the consumer may know precisely 
what the flavor is. 

WHAT IS "DOPE" IN FOOD? 

When sugar is used for medicine it becomes a 
drug. When onion syrup is given to the baby 
for cold in the throat the onion is a drug. When 
glacial acetic acid is used to eat ofif warts it be- 
comes a drug. When allspice is given to prevent 
griping it is a drug. When benzoic acid is inhaled 
to soothe a hoarse throat it becomes a drug. Be- 
cause sugar, onions, vinegar, spices and benzoic 
acid may be used as drugs is no reason why they 
should not be eaten in food. 

WHENCE IS DERIVED BENZOATE OF SODA? 

Not a single pound of benzoate of soda made 
from any animal excretion is to be found in the 
markets of this country at the present day. Ben- 
zoate of soda is common soda, treated with benzoic 
acid. It is true that years ago, before the discov- 
ery of the present method of manufacture, a poor 
grade of benzoic acid was made in Germany in the 
way criticised, but the practice is absolutely obso- 
lete. There is no reason to believe that a pound 
of it was ever made into benzoate of so<Ja. One 
reason why it is not used is because of the poor 
quality, and another equally practical is the big 
price. Benzoic acid thus obtained is not only 
inferior, but it costs more than ten times as much 
as the clean, pure benzoate from toluene.* 

*A coal-tar product. 

38 



Digitized by 



Google 



what Various Authorities Say 

WILEY, Dr. HARVEY W., Chief of the 
Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department 
of Agriculture, in his sworn testimony before 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
of the House of Representatives on the Pure Food 
BiU, February «6, 1906: 

"I want to point out how they have misun- 
derstood the efforts which have been made to 
ascertain certain facts relating to the effect of 
preservatives, coloring matters and other sub- 
stances added to foods on health and digestion; 
how they have misunderstood the purpose and 
scope of the food standards which have been 
proclaimed by the Secretary <rf Agriculture in 
accordance with an act of Congress, and have, 
as a result of these erroneous views, created 
what seems to them a demon of future dangers, 
but which is nothing more than a phantom of 
a perturbed imagination. 

♦ « « « « ♦ 

'Trof. Kremers states his position on page 
37, where he says: 

^ '* '/ know that salicylic acid has been used to a 
considerable extent; boracic acid also has been used. 
There art worse things than that by far that 
have been used. The question is^ I suppose ^ of 
finding a preservative that, if it is not absolutely 
harmless^ will do the least harm J 

39 



Digitized by 



Google 



"I must acknowledge my gratitude to Prof. 
Kremers for thus stating in his own language a 
position which I regard as wholly irrefutable 
in respect to the use of benzoic acid in foods. 



"I am not advocating the prohibition of the 
use of benzoic acid by anybody who wants to 
use it. I would be in favor of putting benzoic 
acid in a little salt cellar, the same as is used 
for salt and pepper, and letting the people use 
it if they want to. I think benzoic acid would 
not hurt me, or be injurious to my system." 

MUELLER, SEBASTIAN, Vice-President of 
the H. J. Heinz Company, in an address at the 
eighth annual convention of the National Associa- 
tion of State and Food Departments, at St. 
Louis, Mo.: 

^ "Mould and fermentation are frequently 
found by the housewife in the goods which she 
herself has put up, and when the home articles 
are finally taken into use the mould is removed 
and the good part underneath is eaten. When 
the home product is found to be fermented it is 
boiled over and then used, but while the house- 
wife may be willing to remove the mould from 
her own goods and boil over the fermented 
goods which she herself has made, she is not 
likely to buy mouldy or fermented goods from 
the grocer. When goods are made on a large 
scale, although with the same care and cleanli- 
ness, you can readily see what will happen 
when they are shipped over long distances 
and transported from one climate to another. 
If any mould has formed before the goods are 

40 



Digitized by 



Google 



shipped, the mould will become mixed with the 
entire contents of the package during transit, 
and if complete spoilage did not take place on 
this account, the consumer would be eating 
mould, which, in my opinion, is more objec- 
tionable than to eat the small and harmless 
quantity ^ of added preservative required to 
prevent its formation. Again, if goods were 
slightly fermented on the top of the package, 
the bacteria of fermentation would become 
mixed with the balance during transit, and the 
whole package would go up in fermentation. 



jL "Now let us come to the preservative itself. 
The least objectionable one in use to-day seems 
to be benzoate of soda. It is non-poisonous and 
does not accumulate in the human system." 

KREMERS, Prof. EDWARD, of the Univer- 
sity of Wisconsin, in his testimony before the 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
of the House of Representatives on the Pure Food 
Bill, February 15, 1906: 

^ "I have examined the best literature in 

the three languages, English, French and 
German, and have yet to find a statement that 
benzoic acid administered even in medicinal 
doses would produce harm." 

KEDZIE, Dr. FRANK S., professor of chem- 
istry of the Michigan Agricultural College, 
testifying before the same committee on the same 
day: 

41 



Digitized by 



Google 



**I eat catsup (naming the brand) that I 
know contains benzoic acid, and I have it on 
my table every day. I do that in preference 
to taking the catsup bottle, as I used to do 
when I was a boy, and running to the refrigera- 
tor every time after it was used and putting it 
there so that it would not sour and the cork 
would not pop out." 

VAUGHAN, Prof. VICTOR C, of the Uni- 
versity of Michigan, also testifying: 

"I am sure that benzoic acid, in the quanti- 
' ties in which it is used in tomato catsup, sweet 
pickles, etc., one part in 1200 or 2000, does not 
do any harm. 



"Why ought we to use preservatives in 
foods at all? The use of preservatives in foods 
is to prevent the growth of bacteria. Doctor 
Wiley is a good chemist, and the Bureau of 
Chemistry is doing excellent work; but how in 

^y^cM^ the world^ can any one S Kpect - an expert 

t^^^\rt^ bacteriologist t o de c id e how much of a preserv* 

^^ ative is necessary to preserve a given food? 
If you want to get a patent, you would not go 
to a criminal lawyer in order to get it. If you 
wanted to defend some one on a charge of 
murder, you would not go to a patent lawyer^ 
Arifl T mn-^ — =^^ ^^^^ 



I 

i 

1 



Digitized by 



Google 



KELLER, Prof., writing in Liebig's Annual of 
Chemistry (German), Vol. XLIII: 

'"The author took 2 grams of benzoic acid 
without other efiFect than a nightsweat which 
may have been due to the acid. The next day 
the same dose was taken three times, making 
a total of 8 grams in twenty-four hours, and 
no other effects were noticeable or observed." 

MARCH AND, Prof., in a paper contributed to 
The Journal of Chemical Practice (Grerman), 

Vol. XXXV: — 

"In experiments continued over a period of 

ten days, during which 30 grams of benzoic 

acid were administered, we were unable to 

observe any ill effects whatever." 

KLEBS, Prof., quoted in The Correspondence 
of Swiss Physicians, Vol. VIII: 

"There are absolutely no disagreeable effects 
whatever when sodium benzoate is adminis- 
tered for long periods of time, even in doses 
up to 25 grams per day. In medical practice 
it has been found that a dose of from 10 to 15 
grams per day gives no harmful results." 

SENATOR, Dr. H., in a contribution to The 
Journal of Clinical Medicine (German), Vol. I: 



ERRATA 

Page 42. lines 21-22 should read: 
«_the world can anyone EXCEPT an expert 
bacteriologist determine how much," etc. — 



Digitized by 



Google 



SCHUELLER, Prof. MAX, writing in The 
Experimental Pathological and Pharmacological 
Record (German), Vol. XI: 

"It is quite possible for an adult to ingest 
from 20 to 30 grams of sodium benzoate per 
day without any injurious efiFect." 

DEMME, Dr. R., in a communication to 
Smith's Year Book of the Summary of Medicine 
(German), Vol. CLXXXIII: 

"Diphtheria has been treated with from 5 
to SO grams of sodium benzoate per day, besides 
local treatment with it, and subcutaneous injec- 
tions of a 50 per cent, solution in retro- and 
sub-maxillary region and the tonsils. There 
was no drop in temperature, and the heart 
action was materially improved.'' 

ROKITANSKY, Dr., in Wiener's Medical Press 
(German), Vol. XX: 

"Inhalations of sodium benzoate are of 
great value in phthisis. A patient weighing 
50 kilograms must use at least 50 grams in 
5 per cent, solution each day — the dose being 
determined by the body weight." 

WINTER, Prof., in an article contributed to 
Smith's Year Book of The Summary of Medicine 
(German), Vol. CLXXXVI: 

"The author has invariably failed to observe 
any ill effects after the use of the benzoates. 
In all cases they are found to be strongly 
diuretic." 

44 



Digitized by 



Google 



VON JAKSCH, author of "The Poisons:" 

"Perhaps benzoic acid and its salts are the 
least injurious of the whole aromatic series 
{including the essential oils of spices)^ for the 
human organism. I have repeatedly given 
in rheumatism as high as S4 grams of sodium 
benzoate per day without observing any in- 
jurious efiFect. Cases have come under my 
knowledge where as high as 60 grams per day 
have been given." 

SIRECI, Prof., writing in Maly's Year Book 
of Animal Chemistry (German), Vol. XXVII: 

"Even with high doses of benzoate acid, it 
was not possible to exceed the capacity of the 
body to transform all the benzoic acid." 

LEFFMAN, Dr. H., in The Journal of the 
Franklin Institute (American), Vol. CXLVII: 

"Benzoic acid and sodium benzoate 
are practically without influence on the 
digestive power of the enzymes. * * * 
Sodium benzoate has been given internally 
in doses amounting to 5 to SO grams a day. 
* * • * Physiologically, sodium benzoate is 
about as harmless as a drug can be." 

WOOD, Dr. H. C, in "Therapeutics,'' 12th Ed.: 
**The local action of benzoic acid, unless in 
large quantities, is scarcely irritant to mucous 
membranes. * * * The contradictory 
testimony regarding the influence upon nutri- 
tion indicates that it had no constant powerful 
action." 



*Italics added. 

45 



Digitized by 



Google 



Bibliography^ 



KELLER. — Uber Verwandlung der Benzoeaure in Hippur- 
saure. Liebig*s Annalen der Chemie, 1842» XLIII, 108. 

MARC HAND. — Uber die Oxydationsproducte des Leims 
durch Chromsaure. Journal fur practische Chemie, 
1845, XXXV, 309. 

WOHLER AND FRERICHS.— Uber die Veranderungen, 
etc. Liebig*s Annalen der Chemie, 1848, LXV, 335. 

KUHNE AND HALLWACHS.— Uber die Entstehung der 
Hippursaure, etc. Virchow*s Archiv fur pathologische 
Anatomic, 1857, XII, 386. 

LUCKE. — Uber die Anwesenheit der Hippursaure, etc. Vir- 
chow*s Archiv fur pathologische Anatomic, 1800. XIX, 
190. 

LAUTEMANN.—Uber die Reduction der Chinasure, etc. 
Liebig's Annalen der Chemie, 1803, CXXV, 9. 

MATTSCHEWSKY.— -Zur Entstehung der Hippursaure. 
Virchow's Archiv fur pathologische Anatomic, 1803, 
XXVIII, 538. 

MEISSNER AND SHEPARD.— Untersuchungen uber das 
Entstehen der Hippursaure im thierischen Organismus. 
Hannover, 1800. 

HOFMEISTER. — Beobachtungen uber Hippursaurebildung 
im Pflanzenfresserharn. Landwirthschaftliche Ver- 
suchsstationmen, 1871, XVI, 458. 

BUCHHOLTZ. — Antiseptica unter Bacterien. Archiv fur 
experimentelle Pathologie und Pharmacologic, 1875, 
IV, 1 . - 

*This is the bibliography consulted by the Remsen Board in reaching 
its findings. 

46 



Digitized by 



Google 



WEISKE. — Untersuchungen uber die Hippursaurebildung 
im Korper des Herbivoren bei Verabriechung verschie- 
denartiger Futtermittel. (Unter MitwirkuDg von Kell- 
ner und Wienand.) Zeitschrift fur Biologie, 1876, 
XII, 241. 

E. OKOLOW. — Uber die Einwirkung der Salicyl-und der 
Benzoesaure auf Faulniss und Gahrung. Centralblatt 
fur Chirurgie, 1876, P. 777. (Abstract by W. Grube. 
Original Russian.) 

E. SALKOWSKI. — Zur Wirkung des benzoesaurren Natrons. 

Virchow's Archiv fur pathologische Anatomie, 1877, 
LXXVIII, 53. 

A. HOFFMAN. — Uber die Hippursaurebildung in der Niere. 
Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und Pharmacologic, 

1877, VII, 239. 

F. WALTER. — Die Wirkung der Sauren auf den tierischen 

Organismus. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und 
Pharmacologic, 1877, VII, 148. 

BUNGE AND SCHMIEDEBERG.— Uber die Bildung der 
Hippursaure. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und 
Pharmacologic, 1877, VI, 233. 

SALKOWSKI.— Vorgang der Harnstoffbildung in Ticrkor- 
per. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1877-1878, 
111. 

LAUDER BRUNTON.— Text Book on Pharmacology, 
Therapeutics and Materia Mcdica. London 1878, edi- 
tion, 78. 

G. BROWN.— Zur Therapie der Dipthertis. Archiv fur ex- 

perimentelle Pathologic und Pharmacologic, 178, VIII, 
140. 

KLEBS. — Uber einige therapcutische Gesichtspunkte welche 
durch die parasitare Theoric der Infectionskrankheiten 
gcboten erschcinen. Prager medizinische Wochenschrift, 

1878, III, 5, 16, 41, 54. 

47 



Digitized by 



Google 



KLEBS. — Uber einige therapeutiscbe Gesichtspunkte welche 
durch (lie parasitare Form der Infectionskrankheiten ge- 
boten erscheinen. Prager medizinische Wochenschrift, 
1878, III, 1, 2, 5, 6. 

KLEBS. — Natrium benzoicum. Correspondenzblatt fur 
Schweizer Aerzte, 1878, VIII, 313. 



SALKOWSKI. — Uber den Einfluss der Verschliessung des 
Darmkanals, etc. Virchow's Archiv fur pathologische 
Anatomie, 1878, LXXIII, 421. 



E. SALKOWSKI.— Uber das Vorkommen von AUantoin 
und Hippursaure im Hundeharn. Berichte der deutschen 
chemischen Gesellschaft, 1878, XI, 500. 



WINTER. — Zur therapeutischen Verwendung des benzoe- 
sauren Natrons. (Abstract) Schmidt's Jahrbucher fur 
die gesammte Medizin, 1879, CLXXIV, 121. 

NAUMANN. — Uber die therapeutiscbe Verwendung des 
benzoesauren Natrons. (Nach Schuller, Klebs, Letzer- 
ich, Hoffman.) Schmidt's Jahrbucher fur die gesammte 
Medizin, 1879, CLXXXII, 125. 

SENATOR. — Uber die Wirkung der Benzoesaure bei der 
rheumatischen Polyarthrits. Zeitschrift fur klinische 
Medizin, 1879, 1, 243. 

FRITSCHE. — (In a discussion of a paper on inhalations of 
sodium benzoate in tuberculosis of the lungs.) Berliner 
klinische Wochenschrift, 1879, XVI, 762. 

M. SCHULLER. — Uber therapeutiscbe Versuche bei mit 
tuberculosen, scrophulosen, septischen Massen infecier- 
ten Tieren. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologie und 
Pharmacologic, 1879, XI, 84. 

P. KROCZAC— Vorlaufige Mitteilung uber Natronbenzo- 
icum Inhalation am Krankenbette. Wiener medizin- 
ische Presse, 1879, XX, 1178. 

48 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOLOMON. — Uber den Ort der Hippursaurebildung beim 
Pflanzenfresser. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 
1879, III, 365. 

VON SCHRODER.— Uber die Bildung der Hippursaure im 
Organismus des Schafes. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie, 1879, III, 323. 

R. DEMME. — Sechzehnter mediz. Bericht uber die Thatig- 
keit des Jennerschen Kinderhospitals in Bern im Laufe 
des Jahres 1878. Schmidt*s Jahrbucher fur die gesammte 
Medizin, 1879, CLXXXIII, 218. 

STADELMANN.— -Uber die Umwandiung der Chinasure in 
Hippursaure im Organismus der Saugetiere. Archiv fur 
experimentelle Pathologie und Pharmacologie, 1879, 
X, 817. 

ROKITANSKY.— Zur Behandlung der Phthise mittelst In- 
halationen von Natrium benzoicum. Wiener medizin- 
ische Presse, 1879, XX, 1330. 

W. KOCHS. — Uber eine Methode zur Bestimmung der Topo- 
graphic des Chemismus im tierischen Korper. Pfluger's 
Archiv fur die gesammte Physiologic, 1879, XX, 64. 

JAARSVELD AND STOKVIS.— Uber den EinHuss von 
Nierenaffectionen auf Bildung von Hippursaure. Archiv 
fur experimentelle Pathologie und Pharmacologie, 1879, 
X. 268. 

WEISKE. — Uber Hippursaurebildung im tierischen Organis- 
mus. Zeitschrift fur Biologic, 1879, XV. 618. 

WINTER. — Zur therapeutischen Verwendung der Benzoe- 
saure und des benzoesauren Natrons. (Abstract) 
Schmidt's Jahrbucher fur die gesammte Medizin, 1880 
CLXXXVI, 121. 

R. KOBERT.— (Nach eigenen im Verein mit Dr. Schulte 
angefuhrten Untersuchungen.) Zur Kenntniss der 

Wirkung der Benzoesaure. Schmidt's Jahrbucher fur 
die gesammte Medizin, 1880, CLXXXV, 12. 

49 



Digitized by 



Google 



WEYL AND ANREP.— Uber die Ausscheidung der Hippur- 
saure und Benzoesaure wahrend des Fiebers. Zeitschrift 
fur physiologische Chemie, 1880, IV, 169. 

E. SALKOWSKI.— Notizen. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie, 1880, IV, 135. 

SCMIEDEBERG.—Uber Oxydationen und Synthesen im 
Tierkorper. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und 
Pharmacologic, 1881, XIV, 288. 

SCMIEDEBERG.—Uber Spaltungen und Synthesen im 
Tierkorper. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und 
Pharmacologic, 1881, XIV, 379. 

C. VIRCHOW. — Uber die Einwirkung des benzoesauren und 
salicysauren Natrons auf den Elweissumsatz in Korper. 
Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1882, VI, 78. 

SALKOWSKI. — Weitere Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Harn- 
stoddbildung. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 
1882-1883, VII, 93. 

J. SCHIFFER.— Weitere Beitrage zum Verhalten des Sarko- 
sins im tierischen Organismus. Zeitschrift fur physiolo- 
gische Chemie, 1882-1883, VII, 479. 

E. SALKOWSKI AND H. SALKOWSKI.—Uber das Ver- 
halten der aus dem Eiweiss durch Faulniss entstehenden 
aromatischen Sauren im Tierkorper. Zeitschrift fur 
physiologische Chemie, 1882-1883, VII, 161. 

E. BAUMANN. — Zur Kenntniss der aromatischen Substan- 
zen des Tierkorpers. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie, 1883, VII, 553. 

SCHOTTEN.—Uber die Quelle der Hippursaure im Harn. 
Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1883, VIII, 60. 

KRONECKER.—Uber die Hippursaurebildung beim Men- 
schen in Krankheiten. Archiv fur experimentelle Patho- 
logic und Pharmacologic, 1883, XVI, 344. 

50 



Digitized by 



Google 



MINKNOSKI.— Uber Spaltungen im Tierkorper. Archiv 
fur experimentelle Pathologie und Pharmacologic, 1883, 
XVII, ^55. 

VAN DE VELDE AND STOKVIS.— Experimentelle Bei- 
trage zur Frage der Hippursaurezerlegung im lebenden 
Organismus. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologie und 
Pharmacologic, 1883, XVII, 189. 

E. SALKOWSKI.— Uber das Vorkommen der Phenacetur- 
saure im Harn und die Ensrehing der aroma tischen 
Substanzen beim Herbivoren. Zeitschrift fur physiolo- 
gische Chemie, 1885, IX, 229. 

E. SALKOWSKI.— Zur Kenntniss der Eiweissfaulniss III. 

Uber die nicht hydroxylierten aromatischen Sauren. 
Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1885, IX, 491. 

NOEL PATON. — On the relationship of urea formation to 
bile secretion. Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. 
1886, XX, 114, 267. 

F. BAUMAN. — Die aromatischen Verbindungen im Harne 

und die Darmfaulniss. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie, 1886, X, 123. 

BAAS. — Uber das Verbal ten des Tyrosins zur Hippursaure- 
bildung. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1887, 
II, 485. 

M. KUMAGAWA. — Uber die Wirkung einiger antipyre- 
tisqher Mittel auf den Eiweissumsatz im Organismus. 
Virchow's Archiv fur pathologische Anatomic, 1888, 
CXIII, 134. 

MOERNER. — Eine Vergiftun^ durch Natrium benzoicum. 
Centralblatt fur die medizinische Wissenschaften, 1888, 
XXVI, 545. 

R. COHN. — Uber das Auftreten von Bensamind, etc. Zeit" 
schrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1890, XIV, 202. 

SI 



Digitized by 



Google 



C. BINZ. — Vorlesungen uber Pharmacologie, zweite Auflage* 
1891. Berlin, Hirschwald, p. 594. 

R. COHN. — Uber das Auftreten, etc. Zeitschrift fur physi- 
ologische Chemie, 1892, XVII, 310. 

VOGL. — Realencyclopadie der gesammten Heilkunde 
(Eulenburg) 3. Auflage. Leipzig, 1894, III, 229. 

VON JACKSCH.— Die Vergiftungen. Specielle Pathologie 
und Therapie (Nothnagel) Vienna, 1897, I, 357. 

SIRECI. — Uber die Ausscheidung der Hippursaure. Maly's 
Jahresbericht fur Thierchemie, 1897, XXVII, 325. 

SIRECI. — Sulla eliminazione dell' acido hippurcia. Qazetta 
degli Espedali e delle clinche, 1896, XVII, 496. 

WEHMER. — Einige vergleichende Versuche uber das anti- 
septische Verhalten der Benzoesaure, etc. ChemikcF 
Zeitung, 1897, XXI, 73. Chemisches Centralblatt, 
1897, 1, 548. 

PFEIFFER AND EBER (in Verbindungen mil Gotze und 
Muller). — Beitrag zur Frage uber die Bildung der Hip- 
pursaure im tieriaehen Organismus. Die Landwrit- 
schaftliche VersuchssUtionen, 1898, XLIX, 97-144. 

J. POHL. — Uber Synthesenhemmung durch Diamine. 
Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologie und Pharmaco- 
logie, 898, XLI, 97. 

WEINER.— Uber das GlykojoU als intermediares Stoff- 
wechselproduct. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologie 
und Pharmacologic, 1898, XL, 313. 

KUNKLE.— Handbuch der Toxikologie. Jena, G. Fisher, 
p. 550. 



K. SPIRO. — Uber Nachweis und Vorkommen des Glyko- 
oUs. Zeits< ' " ' 
LXVIII, 174. 

52 



joUs. Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1899, 
XT 



Digitized by 



Google 



H. LEFFMANN. — Digestive ferments, with special reference 
to the effect of food preservatives. Journal of Franklin 
Institute, 1899, CXLVII, 97. 

SALKOWSKI.— Uber die antiseptische Wirkung von Sali- 
cylaldehyed und Benzoesaureanhydrid. Virchow's Ar- 
chiv fur pathologische Anatomic, 1899, CLVII, 416. 

ASHHURST. — Certain effects of benzoic acid upon the 
urine. Philadelphia Medical Journal, February 24, 1900» 

BLUMENTHAL.--Zur Methode der Hippursaurebestim- 
mung. Zeitschrift fur klinische Medizin, 1900, XL, 839. 

M. LEWANDOWSKY.—- Versuche uber den Einfluss der 
Benzoesaure auf die Harnsaurebildung. Zeitschrift fur 
klinische Medizin, 1900, XL, 202. 

ABELOUS AND RIBAULT.— Sur I'existence d'un ferment 
soluble operant la synthese de Tacide hippurique aux 
depend du glycocoUe et de Tacide benzoique. Competes 
Rendus de la Societe de Biologie, June 9, 1900. 

WEINTRAUD.— Uber den Anbau des Nucleins im Stoff- 
wechsel. Centralblatt fur innere Medizin, 1900, XXL, 
464. 

PARKER AND LUSK.— On the maximum production of 
hippuric acid in rabbits. American Journal of Physi- 
ology, 1900, 111, 472.- 

E. CURTIS. — Benzoic acid and benzoates. Reference Hand- 
book of the Medical Sciences, 1900, Vol. I. 

R. COHN. — Uber den GlykokoUvorrath des tierischen Or- 
ganismus. Festschrift fur N. Jaffe, Braunschweig, 
1900 or 1901, p. 319. 

H. ULRICHI. — Uber pharmacologischc Beeinflussung der 
Harnsaureausscheidung. Archiv fur experimentelle Pa- 
thologic und Pharmacologic, 1901, XLVI, 321. 

53 



Digitized by 



Google 



BERNINZONE.— Sulla sintesi fisiologica dell* acido ippu- 
rico. Boll. d. R. Accad. med. di Genova, 1901, 16 
No. VI, 47. 

K. SIEBERT.— UbcF die nach Benzaldehyd und Benzoe- 
sauredarreuchung im Harn auftretenden reducierenden 
Stoffe. Inaugural Dissertation, Konigsberg, 1901. 

C. LEWIN. — Beitrage zum Hippursaurestoffwechsel des 
Menschen. Zeitschrift fur klinische Medizin, 1901, 
XLII, 371. 

Report of the Department Committee appointed to inquire 
into the Use of Preservatives and Coloring Matters in 
the Preservation and Coloring of Food (together with 
minutes of evidence, appendix and index), London, 901. 

WEITZEL.— Uber die Labgerinnung der Kuhmilch unter 
dem Einfluss von Borpraparaten und anderen chemi- 
schen Stoffen. Arbeiten aus dem kaiserlichen Gesund- 
heitsstand, 1902, XIX, 126. 

REM-PICCI. — Uber cine neue Methode fur die Bestimmung 
der Hippursaure im Menschenharn. Maly's Jahresbe- 
richt fur Thierchemie, 1902, XXXII, 316. (From 
Archivio di farmac, speriment e science affini, 1902, 1, 7.) 

R. COHN. — Zur Frage der Glykokollbildung aus Leucin im 
tierischen Organismus. Archiv fur experimentelle Patho- 
logic und Pharmacologic, 1902, XLVIII, 177. 

E. BASHFORD AND W. CRAMER.— Uber die Synthese 

der Hippursaure im Tierkorper. (Preliminary Report) 
Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, 1902, XXXV, 536. 

F. SOETBEER.— Kontrolle der Blumenthalschen Methode 

der Hippursaurebestimmung. Zeitschrift fur physiolo- 
gische Chemie, 1902, XXXV, 538. 

SALKOWSKI.— Uber die Stoflfwechselwirkung der Benzoe- 
saure, etc. Internationale Beitrage fur innere Medizin. 
Festschrift fur v. Leyden, Berlin, 1902, II, 27. 

54 



Digitized by 



Google 



HUPFER. — Einwirkung von Chinasaure auf Ilarnsaiire und 
Hippursaure ausscheidung. Zeitschrift fur physiolo- 
gische Chemie, 1902-1903, XXXVIJ, 302. 

A. KANGER. — Zur Frage uber die chem. Zusammensetzuug 
und die pharmacologische Wirkung der Preiselbeere 
(Vaccinium vitis idaea L.). Archiv fur cxperi men telle 
Pathologie und Pharmacologie, 1903, L, 46. 

REM-PICCI. — Uber die Umwandlung der Benzocsaure in 
Hippursaure bei Nierenkranken. (Bollettino della R. 
Accademia Medica de Roma, XXX, 1-21). Maly*s 
Jahresbericht fur Tierchemie, 1903, XXXIII, 102. 

PFEIFFER, BLOCH AND RIECKE.— Eine neue Methode 
zur Bestimmung der Hippursaure. Mitteilungen des 
landwirthschaftlichen Instituts der Universitat Breslau, 
1903, II, 273. 

MOOSE AND NEITBERG.—Uber den physiologischen Ab- 
bau von Jodalbumminen. Zeitschrift fur physiologische 
Chemie, 1903, XXXVII, 427. 

R. KOBERT.— Lehrbuch der Intoxikationen. II. Band. 
Spezieller Teil. I. Halfte, p. 115. Stuttgart, Ferdinand 
Enke, 1904. 

E. PRIBRAM. — Zur Lehre von den physiologischen Wirk- 
ungen carbocylischer Sauren. Archiv fur experimentelle 
Pathologie und Pharmacologie, 1904, LI, 372. 

GERHARDT.— Uber Darmfaulniss. Ergebnisse der Physio- 
logic, 1904, III, 138. 

BLUMENTHAL AND BRAUNSTEIN.— Uber die quanti- 
tative Hippursaurebestimmung beim Menschen. Hof- 
meister's Beitrage zur chemischen Physiologic, 1904, 
VI, 150. 

KNOOP. — der Abbau aromatischer Fettsaureu im Tier- 
korper. Hofmeister's Beitrage zur chemischen Physio- 
logic, 1904, VI, 150. 

55 



Digitized by 



Google 



PFEIFFER, REICKE AND BLOCK.— Die MutteFsub- 
stanzen der im Organismus Pflanzenfresser erzeugten 
Hippursaure. Mitteilungen des landwirthschaflichen 
Instituts der Universitat Breslau, 1904, II, 695-728. 



R. COHN. — Zur Frage der Glykokollbildung im tierischen 
Organismus. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologie und 
Pharmacologie, 1905, LIII, 435. 

MAGNUS-LEVY.—Uber die Herkunft des Glykokolls in der 
Hippursaure. Vorlaufige Mitteilung. Munchener medi- 
zinische Wochenschrift, 1905, LII, 2168. 

H. C. WOOD.— Therapeutics. Principles and Practice, 12th 
edition. Philadelphia, 1905, p. 895. 

G. ASTOLFONI. — Recherches concernant Taction de quel- 
ques substances diuretiques sur la synthese de I'acide 
hippurique. (Resume de Tauteur.) Archives italiennes 
de biologie, 1905, XLIII, 373. 

G. .4ST0LF0NI. — Recherche interno all* azione di alcune 
sostanze diuretiche suUa sintesi dell* acido ippurico. 
Rivista veneta di Scienze med., 1905, XLII, 57. 



G. ASTOLFONI.— Recherche interno all' azione di alcune 
sostanze suUa sintesi dell' acido ippurico. 

R. HEINZ. — Handbuch der experimentellen Pathologie und 
Pharmacologie, I. G. Fischer, Jena, 1905. 

McGILL. — Report on Preservatives. Laboratory of the 
Inland Revenue Department, Ottawa, Canada. June, 
1905. Government Printing Bureau, Ottawa, 1905. 



J. SCHMID.— Uber die quantitative Hippursaurebestimmung 
nach Pfeiffer, etc. Centralblatt fur innere Medizin. 



1905, XXVI, 81. 



56 



Digitized by 



Google 



PINCHAS FEIGIN.— Uber die Hippursaureausscheidung 
beim hungernden Menschen. Inaugural Dissertation, 
Berlin, 1906. 



BEHRE AND A. SEGIN.— Uber die Wirkung der Kon- 
servierungsmittel. Zeitschrift fur Untersuchung der 
Nahrungs und Genussmittel, 1906, XII, 461. 



W. WIECHOWSKE.—- Die Gesetze der Hippursauresyn- 
these. (Zugleich ein Beitrag zur Frage der Stellung des 
Glykokolls im Stoffwechsel. Hofmeister's Beitrage zur 
chemischen Physiologie, 1906, VII, 204-275. 

ADDERHALDEN AND TERUUCHI.— Studien uber die 
proteolytische Wirkung, etc. Zeitschrift fur physiolo- 
gische Chemie, 1906, XLIX, I. 

BRUGSCH AND HIRSCH.— Hippursauresynthese und 
Ausscheidung der Benzoesaure beim Hunde. Zeitschrift 
fur experimen telle Pathologic und Therapie, 1906, 
III, 663. 



B. von FENYVESEY.— Uber den Einfluss experimentell er- 
zeugter Krankheits-prozesse auf biochemische Synthesen. 
Maly's Jahresbericht fur Tierchemie, 1906, XXXVI, 633. 

F. GLADI. — Contribute alia studio dell' acido ippurico dell' 
organismo umano. II Policlinico, Sez. med. 1907, No. 6. 
(Abstract in Centralblatt fur die gesammte Physiologie 
und Pathologic des Stoffwechsels, 1907, II, 748. 

MAGNUS-LEVY. — Uber das Auftreten einer Benzoesaure- 
Glycuronsaure Verbindung im Hammelharn nach Ben- 
zoesaure Futterung. Biochemische Zeitschrift, 1907, 
VI, 502. 



MAGNUS-LEVY.— Uber die Neubildung von GlykokoU, 
etc. Biochemische Zeitschrift, 1907, VI, 523. 

57 



Digitized by 



Google 



S. AMBERG AND A. LOEVENHART.— Further observa- 
tions, etc. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1908, IV, 
119. 

LEWINSKI. — Uber die Grenzen der Hippursaurebildung 
beim Menschen. Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic 
und Pharmacologic, 1908, LVIII, 397. 

SEO. — Uber die Hippursaurespaltung durch Bacterien, etc. 
Archiv fur experimentelle Pathologic und Pharmacologic, 
1908, LVIII, 440. 

H. W. WILEY, with the collaboration of W. D. Bigelow, 
F. C. Weber and others. — Influence of Food Preserva- 
tives and Artificial Colors on Digestion and Health. IV. 
Benzoic Acid and Benzoates. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistr5\ Bulletin No. 84, 
Part VI, 1043-1294, 1908. (Withdrawn.) 

REFEREE BOARD OF CONSULTING SCIENTIFIC 
EXPERTS.— "Influence of Sodium Benzoate on the 
Nutrition and Health of Man." (Experimentation, Yale 
University, New Haven, Conn.; Columbia University, 
New York, N. Y.; Northwestern University, Chi- 
cago, 111.) 




58 



Digitized by 



Google 



THft McCONNELL PRINTING CO.. 
230^242 William St., N. T. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



RETURN 
TO— ^ 


MAIN CIRCULATION 


ALL BOOKS ARE SUBJECT TO RECALL 
~ RENEW BOOKS BY CALLING 642-3405 


DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 








1 A: ; ^i inrxM. 






AUTO Disc CKC c 


CTlO'94 







































































FORM NO. DD6 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
BERKELEY, CA 94720 



1 



7 



Digitized by 



Google 



YB 67832 








Digitized by CjOOQIC 



:c 



oo<^' 



