PIRBLBSS 
COOKER 

RECIPES 



FIRBLESS 
COOKER 

RECIPES 



by 

L. H. WINSHIP 

li 



Copyright 1909 

by 
L. II. WINSHIP 

WINNETKA, III.. 









jCIa 



24 t909 




^^ 



FIRELESS COOKER may be made in a 
shirtwaist box, an old trunk, tub, wash-boiler, 
ice box, or just a common grocery box. Use 
granite ware pails, with granite covers, to cook 
in. If the box is large enough for 3 pails, 2, 4 



and 8 quarts are good sizes for an ordinary family. 

Pack hay or excelsior firmly in the bottom of the 
box about three inches deep, then set the pails in posi- 
tion and pack the hay around each pail to the tops of 
the pails. Lift the pails out and cover the hay with 
cheese cloth, tucking it in around the edges and into the 
holes where the pails go. This keeps the hay from be- 
coming disarranged, and may be removed and washed 
when necessary. 

Make a pad, to fit over all, of cotton batting and 
newspapers, covered with old woolen material, if, you 
have it, tacked like a comforter. A bag filled with hay, 
an old quilt folded, or a pillow may be used until a pad 
can be made. 

Cook the food in pail on ordinary stove from 5 to 
30 minutes, according to the length of time required by 
the usual method, THEN COVER TIGHTLY TO GET 
PAIL FULL OF STEAM, AND TRANSFER Q[ T TCK- 
LY TO COOKER TO FINISH COOKING. 

The Cooker must not be far from the stove, as all 
the heat must be retained to keep up the process of cook- 
ing. 

To keep the Cooker sanitary the outside of the pail 
must be clean and dry. 

Food should be kept in the Cooker about twice the 
length of time required over the fire by the old way, but 
the food is not harnled in the least if left in hours lom>- 



or, if it is not disturbed until wanted for use, though 
some may be removed and the rest at once put back to 
keep for a later comer, with no harm done. 

If the box is only large enough for one pail, choose 
a large one, then any small amount of food, as rice, can 
be cooked in a small pail, and set inside the large one to 
finish, in the Cooker, putting boiling water in the larger 
one. 

The drudgery of cooking is largely eliminated by 
the use of a tireless cooker. One needs only a few days' 
experience to feel entirely at home in using it, and there 
is no boiling dry, sticking, stirring, burning, odor, steam 
or waste of any kind ; saving from half to three-quarters 
on the fuel bill, to say nothing of the cook being free to 
rest or to do other work while the Cooker attends to the 
cooking. 

In cooking rice or cereals none is wasted by stick- 
ing to the vessels in which they are cooked, besides be- 
ing so much more thoroughly cooked than by the old 

way. 

Think of cooking onions, cabbage, or turnips, and 
not having the smell all through. the house! Then, one 
can put the dinner in the Cooker and be gone from home 
till a few minutes before dinner-time, and the meal will 
be ready to serve. 

Hot water may be kept in Cooker for future use. 

The "time for boiling" in the recipes given means, 
in every case, from the time the food begins to boil, and 
not when it is put over the fire. 



TESTED RECIPES FOR FIRELESS COOKER 

CEREALS. 

Oatmeal — 1 part oatmeal to 2 14 parts boiling salt- 
ed water. Boil 5 minutes, place in Cooker overnight. 

Cream of Wheat — % cup Cream of Wheat, 1 tea- 
spoon of salt, stirred into 1 quart boiling water. Cook 
slowly 5 minutes, place in Cooker 1 hour, or overnight. 

Boiled Rice — Three tablespoons of rice, well 
washed, put into cold water, let come to boiling, drain off 
water and put on 2 cups boiling water, salt to taste; 
boil 5 minutes, place in Cooker 2 hours. Season with 
butter and serve. Part or all milk may be used in cook- 
ing in place of 2 cups water. 

Corn Meal Mush — I cup corn meal, -i to 5 cups 
boiling water, salt to taste. Stir meal slowly into the 
boiling water, boil 10 minutes, place in Cooker 5 hours 
or longer. 

SOUPS. 

Bean Soup — 1 cup navy beans, 1 onion, 2 stalks cel- 
ery, a piece of salt pork, about Vi lb., or 2 tablespoons 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Soak beans over night, 
drain, add 2 qts. cold water, bring to boiling, add celery 
and onion, chopped pork and seasoning. Boil slowly 10 
minutes, place in Cooker 5 hours, rub through sieve (add 
butter, if no pork was used) and serve hot. 

Baked Bean Soup — Add 1 qt. water to 2 cups cold 
beans, bring to boiling, then add 1 slice onion and 1 
stalk celery chopped fine and 4 tablespoons tomato 
juice. Mix well, boil 5 minutes, place in Cooker 2 hours, 
rub through sieve, add 2 tablespoons flour stirred up in 
a little cold water, also salt and pepper to taste, and 
heat to boiling, stirring constantly. 

Mutton Broth — 2 lbs. lean mutton; remove all 



skin, cut in pieces, cover with cold water, add salt, bring- 
slowly to boiling, skim, simmer 10 minutes, place in 
Cooker 5 hours. Strain and season to taste. If barley 
or rice is desired add, boil 5 minutes and return to 
Cooker for 2 hours. 

Tomato Soup — Add 2 cups water to 1 can tomatoes, 
slice 1 small onion, dice 1 carrot, add these and 1 small 
bay leaf, salt and a sprinkle of cayenne pepper. Boil 5 
minutes, place in Cooker 2 hours. Strain and add 1 qt. 
soup stock, re-heat and serve. 

Vegetable Soup — Boil soup bone 10 minutes, skim, 
place in Cooker 5 hours. Chop 1 onion, 1 potato, 2 car- 
rots, 1 parsnip, 1 stalk celery, 1 turnip ; strain soup, add 
vegetables; also half a can tomatoes, a spoonful rice, 
peas and green beans if you wish and have them, salt 
and pepper to taste, boil 5 minutes, return to Cooker 2 
hours. Add a sprinkle of chopped parsley just before 
serving. Any of these vegetables may be omitted — us- 
ing such as are liked or at hand. 

Turkey Soup — Break bones left from cold turkey, 
cover with cold water, let stand 1 hour, then put over 
fire. When boiling, add 1 small onion, 1 turnip, 1 carrot 
and a piece of celery, all chopped fine. Boil 10 minutes. 
Place in Cooker 5 hours, strain, re-heat and serve. 

MEATS. 

Beef Pot Roast — Wash roast, put in kettle, cover 
with boiling water, boil 30 minutes, add salt, let kettle 
get full of steam, place in Cooker 4 hours or longer ac- 
cording to size of roast; before serving brown well in 
frying pan in hot beef suet or half butter and half 
drippings, making gravy from same afterwards, using 
liquor meat was boiled in. Vegetables may be boiled 
with the roast if desired, putting them in after the roast 
has boiled 20 minutes. 



The water the meat was cooked in makes excellent 
soup, chopping and adding such vegetables as desired 
or convenient ; boil 5 minutes, place in Cooker 2 hours. 

Corned Beef — Put into cold water, bring to boiling, 
boil 30 minutes, place in Cooker all day or overnight. 
If it is to be served cold, allow to cool in liquor. 

Corned Beef and Cabbage — Put beef into cold wa- 
ter, bring to the boil, boil 20 minutes, add cabbage cut 
into quarters, bring to boiling, boil 10 minutes, place in 
Cooker 6 hours. Carrots, turnips, potatoes or onions 
may be added with cabbage if desired to make a boiled 
dinner. 

Fricasse of Chicken — Clean and singe chicken, 
wash in water in which 1 teaspoon baking soda has been 
dissolved, then cut into pieces. Heat 2 tablespoons but- 
ter and 1 tablespoon lard in frying pan. Roll chicken in 
flour, brown well in frying pan, place in kettle, add 2 
cups boiling water to frying pan, boil and pour over 
chicken, add salt, boil 10 minutes, place in Cooker 6 or S 
hours. Thicken liquor for gravy. If preferred chicken 
may be browned after cooking. 

Chicken and Tomatoes — Cut up chicken as for fri- 
cassee; add a few slices salt pork and a small onion 
sliced; cover them with boiling water, add 4 medium- 
sized tomatoes peeled and sliced, a little salt and pepper, 
let simmer 10 minutes, cover pail and get full of steam, 
place in Cooker 6 or 8 hours. Arrange the chicken on 
platter with toasted crackers, pour the broth over all 
and serve. 

Boiled Ham — Wash and scrape ham thoroughly in 
warm water containing a little baking soda, then rinse in 
a little cold water, put in kettle, skin side up, cover well 
with cold water. After coming to boiling let boil 30 to 
45 minutes, according to size, and place in Cooker over- 



night. Remove skin while still hot, leaving on all the 
fat. Stick cloves all over fat part and put into oven to 
brown a little. Bread crumbs may also be sprinkled 
over before browning. It should be entirely cold before 
it is cut. 

Irish Stew — 2 lbs. mutton, a few onions and pota- 
toes sliced. Remove skin from meat, add 2 cups boiling- 
water, boil slowly 10 minutes, add prepared vegetables 
and seasoning, boil 5 minutes more, place in Cooker 4 
hours, thicken with flour, cook over fire a few minutes 
and serve. 

Boiled Tongue — If the tongue is salted soak 1 hour 
in plenty of cold water; if it is fresh soak in cold water 
in which is dissolved a handful of salt. Put over the 
fire with enough cold water to cover it, boil 15 minutes, 
place in Cooker overnight. Skin while warm. If it is 
to be served cold allow to cool in liquor. 

Veal Pot Roast — Melt 2 tablespoons butter and 2 of 
lard in frying pan, brown veal well on all sides after 
rubbing it over with salt and pepper and dredging with 
flour. Place roast in kettle, put about 2 cups boiling 
water in frying pan, boil and pour over roast, add 
enough boiling water to cover roast, also salt and pep- 
per. Boil 20 to 30 minutes, place in Cooker 6 to 8 
hours. Brown after cooking, if preferred. 

FISH. 

Boiled Salmon — Sew up in cheesecloth, place in 
kettle, cover with hot (not boiling) salted water, allow- 
ing 1 tablespoon salt to each quart of water, and 1 table- 
spoon vinegar to each 2 quarts of water. Boil 10 min- 
utes, place in Cooker V/ 2 hours ; garnish with sliced lem- 
on or tomato sauce. 

Boiled White Fish — Clean, bone and sew fish in 
cheesecloth, place in kettle, back down, cover with hot 



salted water, add vinegar or lemon juice to water as for 
boiled salmon, boil 5 minutes, place in Cooker 1 hour. 
If fish weighs over 2 lbs. boil 10 minutes. The skin may 
be peeled easily from the fish. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 

TABLE FOR MEATS. 

Boil, Hours in 

minutes. Cooker. 

Beef, 2 lbs. 15 3 

Chicken, 1 year 30 1 

Chicken, spring 15 3 

Beef, 3 lbs 30 1 

Fish, 2 lbs 15 2 

Pork, 2 lbs 30 1 

Pork, 3 lbs 45 1 

Veal, 2 lbs 15 3 

Ham, 3 lbs. (soak all night or all 

day) 30 

All day or all night. 
Corned Beef (soak all night or all 

day) 30 " 

VEGETABLES. 
Asparagus — Wash, tie in bunches, stand on end in 
kettle of boiling salted water, leaving the tips above wa- 
ter, boil 5 minutes, place in Cooker 1 hour. Serve 
whole, seasoning with salt, pepper and butter. Aspara- 
gus may be broken in short pieces to cook, discarding 
tough ends, seasoning as above, or with a cream dress- 
ing. 

Baked Beans — Soak 1 pt. navy beans in cold water 
over night, drain off water, add boiling water to cover 
beans, % lb. salt pork, add 1 tablespoon molasses, a 
level teaspoon salt, a little pepper, 1 teaspoon moistened 
mustard and a pinch of soda. Boil until beans peel 



slightly when blown upon when taken up in a spoon. 
Place in Cooker 8 to 10 hours. Put beans in crock with 
the pork on top and brown well in oven. 

Fresh Lima Beans — Wash, cover with boiling wa- 
ter boil 10 minutes, add salt and a pinch of soda, put in 
Cooker 3 hours. Pour off water, season to taste with 
salt, pepper, butter and cream. Heat and serve. 

String, or Wax Beans — Wash, break in pieces, re- 
moving strings, if any; cover with boiling water, boil 5 
minutes, add salt, place in Cooker 2 hours. Pour off wa- 
ter, season with salt, pepper and butter; also hot milk, 
if liked. 

Dried Lima Beans — Soak Beans in cold water over 
night, drain, cover with boiling water, add butter, salt, 
and a pinch of soda, and allow to simmer 15 minutes; 
place in Cooker 6 hours. Salt pork may be used in 
place of butter. 

Boiled Beets — Wash thoroughly, leaving on roots 
and 1 inch of tops, to prevent losing color; cover with 
boiling water, boil 15 minutes, place in Cooker 2 to 6 
hours, according to size and age, put into cold water a 
minute, rub off skins, slice, season with butter, salt, 
sugar, pepper and heated vinegar. 

Boiled Cabbage — Cut cabbage into quarters, remove 
hard center, cover with boiling salted water, allow to 
boil 10 minutes with cover off. Cover, allowing kettle to 
get full of steam, place in Cooker 2 hours. Season with 
white sauce or with salt, pepper, butter, and serve with 
vinegar. If liked, salt pork may be cooked with it in 
place of using butter. 

Boiled Carrots — Wash, scrape, cut into strips, put 
in kettle, cover with boiling water, boil 5 minutes, add 
salt and a little butter, place in Cooker 2 or 3 hours, 



drain and serve with cream sauce or melted butter. 

Creamed Celery — Wash clean and cut in small 
pieces, cover with boiling* salted water, boil 5 minutes, 
put in Cooker 2 hours. Drain, serve with white sauce. 

Cauliflower — Remove leaves and put into cold salt- 
ed water y 2 hour. Place in kettle, cover with boiling- 
salted water, boil slowly 5 minutes, put in Cooker 1 
hour. Drain and serve with cream sauce, or salt, pep- 
per, butter, and serve with vinegar. 

Green Corn, Boiled — Remove husks and silks, cov- 
er with boiling salted water, bring to boil, let boil 5 min- 
utes, place in Cooker 45 minutes to 1 hour. 

Greens, Beet — Wash and pick over, removing roots, 
add V-2 as much boiling salted water as greens, boil slow- 
ly 10 minutes, place in Cooker 2 hours, drain well, add 
salt, pepper and butter, cut across several times with 
knife, re-heat and serve. A piece of salt pork or bacon 
may be cooked with greens, omitting the butter. Garnish 
with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

For Dandelion Greens, parboil once or twice to re- 
move bitter taste, then proceed as for Beet Greens. 

For Spinach, proceed as for Beet Greens. Kitchen 
shears are convenient to use for cutting off roots. 

Onions, Boiled — If large, cut in half after removing 
skins, cover with boiling, salted water, boil slowly 10 
minutes, place in Cooker 1 hour, serve with salt, pepper 
and butter, or white sauce. 

Peas — Shell, cover with boiling salted water, bring 
to boil, add a pinch of soda, boil slowly 5 minutes, place 
in Cooker 1 hour, drain, season with salt, pepper, butter, 
sugar and cream. 

Parsnips — Wash (scrub well), cover with boiling- 
salted water, boil 5 minutes, place in Cooker 2 to 3 
hours, according to size; remove, put into cold water and 



rub the skins off, then slice lengthwise and brown in but- 
ter in frying* pan, or season with butter, salt and pepper 
or with white sauce. 

Potatoes, Mashed — Wash, peel, cut into pieces of 
uniform size. Cover with boiling salted water, boil 5 
minutes, place in Cooker 1 hour, drain, mash well, sea- 
son with salt, pepper, milk and plenty of butter. Beat 
well over the tire and serve hot. 

Potatoes, Sweet — Select those of even size, wash r 
cut out spots, cover with boiling salted water, boil 10 
minutes, place in Cooker 2 hours. Drain, peel, cut into 
lengthwise slices, put on hot buttered tin in hot oven to 
dry. 

Squash, Summer — Cut in small pieces. It is not 
necessary to remove skin or seeds. Add slightly salted 
boiling water almost to cover, .boil 5 minutes, place in 
Cooker 1 hour. Drain well, mash and stir on stove to 
Jet water dry out, season with butter, salt and a little 
pepper. 

Tomatoes, Boiled — Scald and peel, cut into thick 
slices, cover with cold salted water, bring to boil, boil 5 
minutes, add pepper, butter and a little sugar, if liked; 
cover and let pail get full of steam, place in Cooker 1 
hour; add crushed crackers if liked, and serve hot. 

Turnips, White — Wash, pare, cut into pieces, cover 
with boiling salted water, boil 10 minutes, put into Cook- 
er '2 to 3 hours, according to age. Drain, mash and sea- 
son as mashed potatoes, or season with salt, pepper and 
butter, chop quickly and put into the oven to heat before 
serving. Very young turnips may be seasoned and 
served whole. 

Yellow Turnips should be in Cooker 4 or 5 hours. 



TABLE FOR VEGETABLES. 

Boil, Hours in 

minutes. Cooker. 

Beet Greens 15 2 

Cabbage 10 2 

Peas, Green 5 2 

Corn, Green 5 1 

Potatoes, Irish 5 1 

Potatoes, Sweet 5 1 

Beans, String 10 2 

Turnips 15 3 

Tomatoes 5 1 

Onions 10 1 

Lima Beans, Dried (soak over 

night) 10 5 

DRIED FRUITS. 

Afples, Apricots — Wash, soak a few hours or over 
night in cold water, cook in same water. Boil slowly 10 
minutes; for apricots add sugar; for apples, add sugar, 
lemon and spices to taste. Let pail get full of steam. 
Place in Cooker 4 hours. 

Prunes, Peaches — Wash well, soak over night in 
cold water, cook in same water 5 minutes, add sugar, let 
pail get full of steam. Place in Cooker 4 hours or 
longer. 

SAUCES. 

Apple Sauce — Peel, quarter and core tart apples, 
cover with boiling water, boil 5 minutes, add sugar, cov- 
er to get pail full of steam. Place in Cooker 1 hour. 

Cranberry Sauce — Wash and almost cover with 
boiling water, boil 5 minutes, add y 2 as much sugar 
as berries, let pail get full of steam. Place in Cooker 1 
hour. 



PUDDINGS. 

Suet Pudding — 1 cup finely chopped suet, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 cup molasses, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 
level teaspoon soda, y 2 teaspoon each cloves and allspice, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 cup raisins. Mix and sift 
flour, salt and spices, stir soda into a little boiling water 
and add enough sour milk to make 1 cupful; mix milk, 
molasses and suet and add to the flour. Flour the rai- 
sins and add, mixing well. Put into buttered molds, 
(baking powder cans are good) and put into kettle, al- 
lowing water to come almost to top of cans. Boil 15 
minutes. Place in Cooker 4 hours. One-half cup butter 
may be used in place of suet. Serve with liquid sauce. 

Cherry or Berry Pudding — Cream y 2 cup butter, 
add 1 cup sugar gradually, sift 4 level teaspoons baking- 
powder with 2 1-3 cups flour, add y 2 cup milk and flour 
alternately; add 1 cup berries and fold in whites of 4 
eggs well beaten. Pour mixture into buttered mold, 
place in kettle, add water almost to top of mold, boil 15 
minutes. Place in Cooker 2 hours. Hard sauce. 

Apple Sauce with Dumplings — Pare, quarter and 
core 4 tart apples, cover with boiling water and put over 
fire. When well boiling drop on top dumplings made as 
follows : Sift together 1 pt. flour, 1 heaping teaspoon of 
baking powder, a level teaspoon of sugar and salt each, 
chop cold water into the flour (stirring as little as possi- 
ble) to make a stiff batter, sweeten apple sauce and 
when boiling drop dumplings from spoon in on top. Boil 
slowly 5 minutes with cover nearly tight, then put cover 
tight, let pail get full of steam, put into Cooker 1 hour. 
Serve with sweetened cream seasoned with nutmeg or 
all-spice. Berries may be substituted for apples, and 
the spices omitted. 

Rice Puddinc — Wash 3 tablespoons rice (the broken 



rice is best for puddings), parboil, drain oft* water, add 
to rice 1 pint milk, y 2 CU P seeded raisins and 2 table- 
spoons sugar. Boil slowly 5 minutes, stir, then let pail 
get full of steam and put into Cooker for 2 hours. 

TABLE* FOR PUDDINGS, ETC. 

Steamed on Hours in 
Stove, minutes. Cooker. 

Cottage Pudding 15 3 

Suet Pudding 30 4 

Drop Dumplings 5 1 

Fruit Dumplings 15 3 

Brown Bread Heat through 4 

Then bake Brown Bread % hour. 

INVALID DISHES. 

Beef Tea — Remove skin and fat, and mince 1 lb. 
tender beef, cover with cold water, add y 2 teaspoon salt. 
Let soak 2 or 3 hours, heat slowly to just below the boil- 
ing point. Place in Cooker 2 hours. Press out juice, 
season and serve hot. Arrowroot, rice or barley may be 
added in the cooking to make it more nourishing. 

Oatmeal Gruel — Soak y 2 cup oatmeal over night in 
2 cups water in which is 1 teaspoon of salt, bring to boil- 
ing, boil 5 minutes slowly. Place in Cooker 2 hours. 
Strain through cheesecloth bag, add 2 cups milk, sweet- 
en to taste, add nutmeg if liked. 

Barley Water — Wash 1 cup barley, soak over night 
in 3 cups water, boil 5 minutes gently in same water, put 
into Cooker 3 hours. Strain, season with salt, sugar and 
U mon. Hot or cold. 

Laxative Drink — Add 8 or 10 chopped figs to Bar- 
ley Water as given above. 

Rice Water — Wash 2 tablespoons of rice, boil 5 
minutes in 2 qts. water, place in Cooker 2 hours. Strain, 



sweeten and flavor with nutmeg. Very pleasant and 
curative in bowel troubles of children. 

Mutton Broth — Boil 2 lbs. lean mutton from -which 
the skin and all fat has been removed. Skim carefully 
after boiling 10 minutes, let pail get full of steam, place 
in Cooker 4 hours. Strain. In putting to cook cover 
with cold salted water. Barley or rice may be added in 
the cooking if desired. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Pumpkin for Pies — Cut into pieces, pare and re- 
move seeds. Put into kettle with enough water to cook 
without burning, boil till pumpkin is heated through. 
Place in Cooker over night. Drain well and rub through 
sieve. 

Macaroni and Cheese — Break % lb. macaroni in 
inch pieces, do not wash, boil in 2 qts. salted water for 
5 minutes, put into Cooker 1 hour ; remove and drain off 
water, pour on cold water and drain again. Butter bak- 
ing dish, put in macaroni, -cheese* and white sauce alter- 
nately until all is used, with bread crumbs, cheese and 
dots of butter on top. Bake in moderate oven 20 minutes. 
Instead of the white sauce milk may be used, putting in 
enough to come to the top, using cheese, bread crumbs 
and butter as above, or a half can of tomatoes, or a gen- 
erous cup of tomato sauce may be used instead of cream 
sauce or milk. Season the tomatoes as for the table be- 
fore pouring over, removing the skins, using bread 
crumbs as above, baking in oven in either case 20 min- 
utes. 

White Sauce — 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon 
flour. Heat butter until it bubbles but do not brown. 
Add flour, y 2 teaspoon salt and a little pepper. Stir un- 
til smooth and add 1% cups milk. 

Tomato Sauce for Macaroni — Melt 1 tablespoon 



butter, blend with it 1 tablespoon flour, pour in 1% cups 
strained and seasoned tomato juice. Stir till smooth, 
add 3 tablespoons grated cheese. 

Candied Orange Peel — Peel from 4 oranges makes 
about 1 lb. Cut peel into strips with shears, soak 1 hour 
in cold water, drain off the water and put peel into boil- 
ing water, boil a few minutes, drain off again; put on 
more (use plenty of 'water to remove some of the oil) 
boiling water, let boil 5 minutes, put into Cooker 2 hours. 
Drain off water. Put peel into spider with 2 cups granu- 
lated sugar and about 2 tablespoons water. Let cook un- 
til some of the candy congeals in cold water; remove 
peel from syrup to platter, let cool a couple of minutes. 
Sprinkle well with granulated sugar and stir up until 
cool. 

Ice Cream for Two — Whip well 1 cup cream, add 
the well beaten white of 1 egg, also y 2 cup strawberries, 
red raspberries or crushed peaches put through sieve 
with about 3V-> to 4 tablespoons sugar stirred into the 
strained fruit. Put above into tin mold (baking pow- 
der can will do) leaving a little space for expansion in 
freezing. Put crushed ice in Cooker pail, put in mold 
and pack around it with crushed ice and coarse salt in 
layers. Cover pail and set in larger pail in which is a 
little crushed ice. Place in Cooker for 4 or 5 hours or 
all day. Any flavoring may be used instead of fruits 
named. Delicious! 

If any dampness gathers leave Cooker open to dry 
out. 



Memoranda 



Memoranda 



Memoranda 



Memoranda 



Memoranda 



Memoranda 



Memoranda 



