




1 









,;?r^a^^^ 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco. 1912. 




3 1924 089 480 218 



i;i)e t;i)anfe«gtt)tng 
iWenu 

Oyster Soup 

Celery Olives 

Boiled Fish, Egg Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes 

Roast Turkey Giblet Gravy 

Mashed Turnip 

Browned Sweet Potatoes 

Cranberry Jelly 

Lettuce, French Dressing ' 

Cheese Straws Salted Almonds 

Lemon, Apple, Pumpkin, 

Mince and Cream Pie 

Ice Cream Ginger Wafers 

CofFee 
Fruit Nuts Bonbons Raisins 





Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924089480218 



HOUSEHOLD 
DISCOVERIES 




ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
OF PRACTICAL 
RBCIPCS AND 
PROCESSBS 

By SIDNEY MORSE 




THE SUCCESS 

T>» E.TV -y OH.K. 




COPYRIGHT, igoS 

By S. L. Morsb. 

COPYRIGHT, igog 

By The Success Co, 




TO 

THE THOUSANDS OF PRACTICAL HOUSEKEEPERS, 

READERS OF SUCCESS MAGAZINE, 

AND OTHERS, 

WHOSE DISCOVERIES ARE EMBODIED 

IN THIS VOLUME 



ONE CENT A WORD 

We will pay for new household discoveries, including all practical 

recipes and processes, not contained in this volume, one cent a word 

for all we can use in Success Magazine or in future editions of 

Household Discoveries. Address the author, care of the Success 

Company, Success Magazine Building, New York. Corrections of 

errors or misstatements, utilized by us, will be paid for at the same rate. 

If you have saved money or been otherwise benefited by using one 

of the within recipes, write the author and say so. And contribute 

for the help of others any discoveries that you may have made in 

your own experience. 

The Success Company. 



NOTICE 

Household Discoveries is not offered for sale through the book 
stores, and can oply be obtained of our regular authorized solicitors 
or from the publishers direct. Anyone desiring a copy may address 
the publishers and full information will be given by mail, or one of 
our representatives will be asked to call. We are always in want of 
good canvassing agents. The price of Household Discoveries 
and Success Magazine to the public is so low that it is a ready seller, 
and we will pay the jight men a regular salary. Hence, the work is 
both pleasant and profitable. Experienced agents and those who 
would like to try their ability as salesmen should address the pub- 
lishers for full information. 

The Success Company, 

Success Magazine Building, 

New York City. 



PREFACE 

The main object of this book is economy. If rightly used, it 
will save a great deal of money in every household. It will also 
save time and labor, which are the equivalent of money. 

The publishers have long felt that there is a great need for 
a new book of this sort upon the market. To be sure, there are 
a number of standard dictionaries and encyclopedias of applied 
science. But these cost from five to ten dollars and upward. 
And they contain a great deal of information about commercial 
processes not suitable to household use. There are also a num- 
ber of popular books of recipes published. But most of these 
are old books. Others are made up scrapbook fashion by the 
republication of old material without proper editorial supervision. 

In the course of the preparation of this volume, our atten- 
tion was necessarily called to the fact that a number of so-called 
" new " books republish, word for word, recipes and processes 
that have been formerly published in six or eight other books, 
some of which appeared before the Civil War. Recent science 
has introduced many new substances and processes then unknown. 
All these have been availed of in the present volume. 

. Moreover, the old-fashioned popular book of recipes leaves 
something to be desired in its manner as well as its matter. The 
enormous sale and reputation of a number of old books that 
contain some recipes of great practical value, but accompanied by 
comment which no sane person can possibly read without a sense 
of humor or a feeling of disgust, is the strongest possible evi- 
dence of the value of this kind of information. We believe that 
what has made these old books popular is their practical part 
and not their silly part. We believe that the public will approve 
a volume that sets forth what to do, how to do, and the reasons 
why, in simple, direct, and dignified language, and saves space 
for additional recipes and other information by omitting " horse- 
play " and all unnecessary remarks and commentaries. 

This is a modem book. All who have owned or used one 



22 PREFACE 

of the old-time books of recipes knxiw that hardly a week passes 
that they do not find occasion to refer to it. They wiU, we be- 
lieve, appreciate the importance of having the latest and best 
information along these lines obtainable. Others, who have no 
good collection of this sort, wiU appreciate without argument 
the value of purchasing a new book rather than an old one. 

Thus we feel that there is a universal necessity for Househoi,d 
Discoveries, and we have therefore put the price so low as to 
bring it within the reach of every family, in the confident ex- 
pectation of distributing at least a million copies throughout the 
continent of North America. 

The Publishees. 



INTRODUCTION 

Theee are a number of other books of recipes, but the pres- 
ent volume is unique in three ways: what it contains, what it 
omits, and the way it is arranged. 

WHAT THE BOOK CONTAINS 

As to the first of these three features, the title Household 
Discoveries is suggestive. We all have our own ways of doing 
things. We learn to do by doing. But we are all the time try- 
ing new ways, to save time, to save money, and to do things 
better. Every now and then, through a happy combination of 
circumstances, we make a " Discovery." We hit upon a better 
way than we have known before. Nothing pleases us more than 
to tell our friends about it. They in turn like to tell us ways 
they have discovered to do this or that. Women thus exchange 
household recipes. Men swap ideas on carpentering, painting, 
tinkering, and odd jobs generally. The value of these homely 
ideas thus passing throughout the country, from lip to lip, from 
friend to friend, and from neighbor to neighbor, is enormous. 
Some persons are able to store up large numbers of such practi- 
cal ideas in memory. Others keep notebooks or scrapbooks in 
which to record them. But the stock of most persons is limited 
to a few score or a few hundreds, whereas others, equally good, 
are in existence to the number of many thousands. 

The present volume is made up of practical ideas of this 
character. More than twenty-five thousand persons contributed 
to Success Magazine from one to half a dozen of their own 
tried " Discoveries." All were practical housekeepers. Their 
ideas were the direct product of their experience. They were 
proud of them and they had reason to be. The writer appre- 
ciated to the full the value of this material and obtained per- 
mission to edit it and prepare it for the press. 

Valuable as are the " Discoveries " of practical housekeepers 
in themselves, they have, in their suggestiveness, an added value. 
They show what kind of information housekeepers need and 
want. But they also reveal the fact that many women of great 
practical experience lack scientific knowledge. It has therefore 
been necessary to supplement this wealth of ideas derived from 



24 INTEODUCTION 

experience. And this has been done in two ways: First, the 
discoveries contributed by housekeepers have been carefully 
checked against the best scientific authorities, errors have been 
corrected, impractical ideas discarded. Second, the whole has 
been augmented by the addition of the most approved practical 
and scientific formula;. As a result, it turned out to be neces- 
sary to rewrite the entire volume. 

" Discoveries " are usually how to do this or that. But many 
persons also want to know why. And all can work better if they 
understand the nature and properties of the various substances. 
These are of several sorts. In removing stains and spots, for 
instance, what to do depends upon the kind of fabric, whether 
animal or vegetable fiber; its condition, whether white or colored, 
bleached or unbleached; the nature of the staining substance; 
and the nature of the cleanser to be employed. Hence, the na- 
ture and the properties of the particular kinds of substances in 
common household use are carefully stated. Distinctions are 
made, and closely adhered to, between the treatment of different 
classes of substances, as animal versus vegetable fibers and the like. 
Poisons, explosives, and other dangerous substances are recom- 
mended only with the proper cautions, and aU possible safeguards 
have been thrown about the use, by ordinary persons, of the 
various recipes recommended. 

WHAT THE BOOK OMITS 

The second feature that makes this book unique is what it 
omits. The writer has closely examined about fifty thousand 
recipes contributed by housekeepers, and more than fifty pub- 
lished books of recipes (embracing all that have appeared in 
the English language in the past fifty or sixty years) or a 
total (including duplicates) of nearly one hundred thousand 
recipes. This book contains the cream of them all. It is like 
apple butter boiled down from cider. It is sound wheat winnowed 
free from chaff. It was not necessary to leave out any good 
recipes that were adapted to household use. They are all here. 
Nothing had to be left out but waste words, duplicates (the same 
thing said in another way), gush, and braggadocio. 

A favorite way of padding books of recipes has been to oc- 
cupy more space boasting about the wonders the recipes will 
do than it takes to give the recipe and the directions. Nearly 
half of one of the most celebrated books of recipes is thus 
taken up with " Remarks " that are of no possible use to any- 
body. If the mass of trivialities contained in some of the most 
widely known books of recipes now in use could be struck out 



INTRODUCTION 25 

and the contents " boiled down " or " churned " or " winnowed " 
in a thorough manner, it would surprise everyone to find how 
little space the recipes themselves take up.- 

And a boiled-down book is much more valuable. The recipes 
are still the same and they are a great deal more convenient. By 
thus avoiding unnecessary words, all the best recipes for house- 
hold purposes extant have been combined into one volume. They 
are given on their merits in a plain, direct, and simple way. And 
full information is given in regard to the nature and properties of 
the various substances. Thus anyone can select the bfest recipe 
for a given use, and he will discover its virtues for himself with- 
out paying extra to read about them beforehand. " The proof of ' 
the pudding is in the eating thereof." 

THE WAY IN WHICH THE CONTENTS AEE AURANGED 

The third feature in which this book is unique is the wUy it 
is arranged. The contents are pictorial. Each chapter is a 
picture, or rather a series of moving pictures, from daily life. 
If a moving-picture machine could follow a good housekeeper 
around from morning until night, seven days in the week and 
fifty-two weeks in the year, and then throw the series of pictures 
thus taken upon a screen, the result would be similar to the con- 
tents of this volume. The book goes right with the housekeeper 
when furnishing and decorating all parts of the house, and 
makes a series of pictures that suggest what to do. It gives 
helpful pictures of the best method of heating, lighting, water 
supply, and refrigeration. It goes right through the day's work 
and makes pictures of the different processes, of the kindling and 
care of fires, dishwashing, cleaning lamps, chamber work, and 
preparations for the night. 

It goes through the week's work and makes a picture of get- 
ting ready for wash day by removing spots and stains from the 
linen and by dry cleaning all sorts of fabrics ; of the different 
kinds of soap and how to make them; of wash day, ironing day, 
mending, sweeping and cleaning days, and all of their different 
processes. 

It goes through the year's work also, the spring and fall 
house cleaning; the fight against moths, cockroaches, ants, fieas, 
mosquitoes, flies, rats and mice, and other household pests ; and 
even takes up packing to travel or to move away. 

And on wash day, for example, just when the picture is com- 
plete — including the piles of soiled garments, the utensils of the 
laundry, and the various soaps and other cleansing mixtures — 
all of the recipes are given that can be found in any published 



26 INTRODUCTION 

book of good repute and many " Discoveries " that have never 
been published elsewhere. Thus, a young bride — or an experi- 
enced housekeeper, too, for that matter — can take up the book the 
night before wash day and read over exactly the information 
she will need to put. in practice on the morrow. Or the book 
can be kept at hand in the laundry closet and picked up with 
wet hands if need be. The cover (in one style of binding) is 
made of oilcloth and it will not be damaged in the least. What 
the housekeeper wants to know about any kind of housework can 
be found at the very time she wants it, and all in one place. Con- 
trast with this books that are arranged in a b c order like an 
encyclopedia, and you will see why Household Discoveries is, 
in arrangement, the most practical and convenient book of recipes 
ever published. 

Take, for instance, the family workroom. It is a picture of 
what is needed to make a man handy about the house. Every- 
thing is described in such a simple way that anyone can fix up 
such a workroom and always liave ait hand paste, mucilage, glue, 
and cement for all kinds of uses ; paints and varnishes ; soldering 
tool and solder and other forms of simple metal work ;' oils and 
lubricators ; and all sorts of similar contrivances. Every recipe 
and process is described in the simplest lajiguage. And this part 
of the book alone is worth, to the man of the house, many times 
the cost of the entire volume. It will save the family the price 
of the book several times over every year that it is in the house. 

Upward of one hundred thousand recipes include a great 
many different ways of doing the same things. And by omitting 
all waste words and boiling down everything to the last degree 
it has been possible to include more of these ways than any one 
person would be likely to want. It has seemed best, however, to 
include them all. Circumstances differ. And many men are of 
many minds. From the variety of the recipes given, it is be- 
lieved that any housekeeper or' practical man can, in most cases, 
make up a recipe for a given purpose from what is at hand in 
the house or at any rate what can easily be had in the neigh- 
borhood. And thus the book is adapted to all parts of the coim- 
try, and to the use of every individual and family in the land. 

The Authob,. 



PAQK 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 

HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 

House Punishing — ^Furniture — Wall Coverings — Floor Cov- 
erings — Curtains, Shades, and Draperies — Miscellaneous 
Objects — ^Living Rooms — Sleeping Rooms — Library — -Dining 
Room — ^Kitchen, Storeroom, and Pantry — Small Economies . 33 

CHAPTER II 

HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 

Kinds op Fuel — Heating Systems — Chimneys and Flues — ^Fire 
Extinguishers and Fire Escapes — ^Fireprooping and Water- 

PHOOPING ^ArTTPICIAL ILLUMINATION CoAL GaS, GaSOLINE 

Gas, and Acetylene — ^Kerosene Oil — Candles and Candle 
Making — Industrial Alcohol — Water Supply — ^Ice and Re- 
frigeration . ... 81 

CHAPTER III 

THE DAY'S ROUTINE 

Kindling and Care op Fires — Cleaning and Polishing Stoves 
— Dishwashing — Care op Kitchen Wares — Care op Glass- 
ware AND Cut Glass — Steel Knives and Forks — Care of 
Silverware — Care op Sinks and Disposal of Garbage — 
Chamber Work — -Care op Lamps — ^Preparations fob the 
Night . . . . 123 

CHAPTER IV 

PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 

Solvents for Spots and Stains — Kinds of Spots and Stains — 
Stains on White Linen or Cotton — To Remove Stains from 
Vegetable Fibers — ^To Remove Stains from Animal Fibers — 
To Clean Colored Goods — To Dry-clean Men's Garments 
— ^To Dry-clean Women's Garments — Cleaning and Care 
OP Gloves — ^To Clean Feathers, Furs, and Straw — Bleach- 
ing Vegetable and Animal Fibers 154 

27 



28 CONTENTS 

CHAPTER V 
SOAP AND SOAP MAKING 

PAOB 

Utensils and Materials for Soap Making — Soft Soap — ^ELaed 

Soap — Soda Soaps — Rosin Soap — Special Soaps 186 

CHAPTER VI 

WASH DAY 

The LAtiNDRT — Laundry Utensils — ^Nature or the Process — 
Water for the Latjndry — Labor-saving Methods, Washing 
Fluids, etc. — Colored Goods — Laces and Lace Curtains — • 
Silks and Satin — Woolens, Worsteds, and Flanneis — ^Dry- 
ing Clothes . . 200 

CHAPTER VII 

mONlNG DAY 

Bluing and Sprinkling — Starch and Starching — Care of Iron- 
ing Utensils — Ironing — ^To Do Up Silks, Ribbons, and 
Woolens — ^To Do Up Laces and Curtains — ^To Mark and 
Store Linen .... 222 

CHAPTER VIII 

SEWING AND MENDING DAY 

The Sewing Room — ^Use and Care of Sewing Machine — Sewing- 
room Conveniences — Mending — ^Renovating — Making Over 
— Fancy Work 234 

CHAPTER IX 

SWEEPING DAY 

Utensils for Sweeping — ^Dust and Dusting — Hard-wood Floors 

— Rugs — Matting — Oilcloth and Linoleum .... 250 

CHAPTER X 

HOUSE CLEANING 

Cleaning the Cellar — Cleaning the Attic and Closets — 
Cleaning the Chambers — To Clean Floor Coverings — 
Cleaning and Repinishing Wood Floors — Cleaning Paint 
— Whitewashing — ^Paper Hanging — Care of Walls — ^Win- 



CONTENTS 29 

PAGE 

Dows, Doors, etc. — Cleaning and Care of Furniture — 
Cleaning Picture Frames— Cleaning Bric-a-brac and 
Miscellaneous Objects — ^To Clean Marble, Brick, and 
Stone — Cleaning Kitchen Stoves and Other Metals — 
Packing 260 

CHAPTER XI 

HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 

The Clothes Moth — Carpet Beetle or "Buffalo Moth" — 
The House Centipede — ^The Common Cockroach or Cro- 
ton Bug — ^Thb Bedbug — ^The House Flea — -Rats and Mice — 
Black and Red Ants — ^The White Ant — ^The Common House 
Fly — ^The Mosquito — Orchard, Farm, and Garden Pests 304i 

CHAPTER Xn 

THE FAMILY WORKROOM 

Pakt One — ^Adhesives 
Adhesives — Pastes — Mucilage — Glue — Cement — Special Ad- 

hesives . . 332 

CHAPTER XIII 

THE FAMILY WORKROOM 
Part Two — Paints and Varnishes 
Uses of Paint — Specifications for Painting — Care of Paints 
AND Brushes — Special Kinds of Paint — Varnishing — Fixed- 
oil Varnishes— Spirit or Lac Varnishes — -Volatile-oil 
Varnishes — Special Varnishes — Sealing Wax — Oils, Lu- 
bricators, etc. — Furniture Polish 352 

CHAPTER XIV 

THE FAMILY WORKROOM . 
Past Three — Metal Work 
The Metals and Their Properties — Iron and Steel — Copper 
AND Its Alloys, Brass, Bronze, etc.— Lead and Its Alloys 
— ^Tin and Its Alloys, Solder, etc. — Zinc and Its Alloys 
— ^Nickel and Its Alloys — Aluminum and Its Alloys — An- 
timony AND Its Alloys — Mercury and Its Amalgams — -Coat- 
ing Metals with Other Metals by Electricity and Other- 
wise — Electroplating and Electrotyping — -Lacquer for 
Metals — ^Precious Metals — Gold and Silver .... 383 



30 CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XV 

THE FAMILY WORKROOM 

Part Focb — ^Leather, Ink, and Miscellaneous 

FAOB 

Tanning Leather — Coloring and Care of Leather — Boots 
AND Shoes — Overshoes — Waterproofing Leather— Black- 
ing Leather — Writing Ink — Marking Inks — Colored Inks 
— Special Inks — Care of Ink — Care of Jewelry — Glass 
AND Ivory — Gypsum, Alabaster, etc 415 

CHAPTER XVI 

THE TOILET AND BATH 

The Skin— Baths and Bathing — Kinds of Baths — The Toilet — 

Toilet Soaps — Medicated Soap — The Hands — Manicuring. 438 

CHAPTER XVII 

TOILET PREPARATIONS 

Toilet Preparations — Simple Home Preparations — Almond 
Milk Cream and Paste — Cold Cream — Aromatic Vinegar — 
Toilet Powders — Rouge — ^Essences and Perfumes . . 458 

CHAPTER XVIII 

HAIRDRESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 

Dandruff and Shampooing — Hair Washes — Hair Tonics — Hair 
Oils — Hair Dyes — Other Hair Topics — ^The Beard, Mus- 
tache, AND Shaving — ^Toilet Preparations for Men . . 483 

CHAPTER XIX 
THE TEETH 

The Teeth — Dentifrices — ^The Breath — Toothache — ^Tooth- 
ache Remedies 502 

CHAPTER XX 

CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 

Kinds of Candies — Boiling Sirup for Candy — ^The Seven 
Degrees — Cream or Fondant — Cream Candies — Fruit and 
Nut Creams— Bonbons — ^Taffy and Molasses Candy for 



CONTENTS 31 

PAGE 

Candt Puus — Sirup Candies — Pastim oh Candy Drops — 
Candied Fruits, Fruit and Nut Candies — ^Caramels — 
Kisses and Marshmaijxjws — ^Nougats — Popcorn Candy — 
Lozenges — Cough Candies — ^To Color and Flavor Candy 
— ^IcES AND Icing — Honey and Beeswax 515 

CHAPTER XXI 

CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 

Canned Goods for Market — Utensils and Materials — Process 
op Canning and Preserving — Pbesekves and Preserving — 
Old-Fashioned Recipes — Miscellaneous Rules and Sug- 
gestions 547 

CHAPTER XXII 

VINEGAR. PICKLES. AND PICKLING 

Special Vinegars — Pickles and Pickling — Mixed Pickles — 

Pickled Vegetables. Nuts, and Fruits 561 

CHAPTER XXIII 

PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 

Fermentation — ^Fresh Meat and Fish — Salting and Pickling 
Meat — Cubing Hams, Tongues, and Bacon — Making and 
Keeping Sausage — Preservation of Cooked Meat — ^Trying 
Out and Storing Lard — ^Preserving, Testing, and Packing 
Eggs — Storing and Preserving Vegetables, Fruit, Nuts, 
and Herbs . 587 

CHAPTER XXIV 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Weights and Measures — Linear or Long Measure — Square or 
Superficial Measure — Surveyors' and Land Measure — 
Cubic or Capacity Measure — -Wood, Lumber and Board 
Measure — Measurement op Stone and Brick — Dry and 
Liquid Measure — Measures op Weight — Cooks' Table op 
Proportions — Circular Measure — Longitude and Time — 
Measures op Value — United States Money — ^English or 
Sterling Money — Metric System of Weights and Measures. 611 



32 CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XXV 

HEALTH HINTS— WHAT TO DO IN EMERGENCY 
Geohge J. Fisher, M.D. 

PAGE 

General Hints in Time or Accident — ^Fihst Aid in Time op Injubt 
— Poisons and their Antidotes — ^Fainting — How to Treat 
A Bruise or Sprain — Treatment of Special Parts — Cuts 
AND Scratches — Poisoned Wounds — ^Poison Ivy and Poison 
Oak — Burns — Bleeding — Dislocations — Fractures — 
Drowning — Prone Pressure Method 645 

CHAPTER XXVI 

WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO DO 
Isabel Gordon Curtis 

What an Invalid Mat Eat — ^What an Invalid Mat Drink — 
Proven "Home Remedies" — Hot Weather Care of Infants 
AND Young Children . 660 

Index . . 677 



CHAPTER I 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



HOUSE FURNISHING— FURNITURE— WALL COVERINGS— FLOOR 
COVERINGS— CURTAINS, SHADES, AND DRAPERIES-MISCEL- 
LANEOUS OBJECTS— LIVING ROOMS-SLEEPING ROOMS— LI- 
BRARY— DINING ROOM— KITCHEN, STOREROOM, AND PANTRY 
—SMALL ECONOMIES 



HOUSE FTTENISHING 

The subject of house furnishing is 
more important than is often realized. 
It has a moral and a social as well as 
an economic side. The relation is 
very close between the character, or 
at least the reputation, of men and 
their surroundings. Everyone is free 
to change his surroundings. Hence 
the furniture and the decorations of 
a house, and the condition of the 
house and grounds, are properly con- 
sidered an index to the character of 
its occupants. 

Furniture, decorations, and other 
surroundings that are disorderly or 
in bad taste tend to keep refined and 
thoughtful people away from such 
homes. They have an even worse ef- 
fect on the character of the inmates. 
Those who live in such circumstances 
become used to them, and no longer 
notice their badness. But the worst 
effect is upon the impressionable minds 
of growing children. Young children 
naturally take their own homes as 
models. What they see in childhood 
tends to fix their standards for life. 
Hence neat, tasteful, and orderly 
homes, but not necessarily expensive 
in their appointments, have a very 
important educational influence. 

The problem of furnishing and 
decorating comes up in two ways: 
originally, as in the formation of a 
new home, in the furnishing of addi- 
tional rooms, or in moving into a new 
and larger dwelling; or, secondarily, 
in refurnishing from time to time, and 
purchasing additions to the family 



stock, usually in' connection with the 
semiannual housecleaning. 

All of these occasions give rise to 
many problems that require good 
judgment. But these can usually be 
referred to a few simple rules that 
are not difficult to imderstand or to 
apply. Styles and fashions in these 
matters change more slowly than some 
other fashions, as in dress; but they 
do change, and while it is proper and 
desirable that the furnishings in the 




"Simplicity, Harmony, and Durability." 

home should be to some extent orig- 
inal and express the individuality of 
its owners, it is natural and conven- 
ient for everyone to conform in a 
general way to the tendencies ,of the 
times in which he lives. Hence it is 
important to know in what direction 
the current of thought is moving, so 
as to keep in advance or abreast of 
it, rather than to lag behind. 
Simplicity, harmony, and durability 



33 



34 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



are the keynotes of the modem tend- 
ency. The general intention seems to 
be to avoid everything that is super- 
fluous, everything that has a tendency 
to catch and hold dust or dirt, or to 
add to the discomforts and dangers 
of dust and dirt by quickly wearing 
out. Hence carpets are being large- 
ly replaced by hard-wood floors and 
rugs; wooden bedsteads, by beds of 
iron or brass; stuffed and upholstered 
furniture, by articles of plain wood 
or wood and leather. Wall papers are 
often discarded for walls tinted or 
calcimined with washable materials. 
" Bric-a-brac," flounces, valances, and 
all other superfluous articles are much 
less fashionable than formerly. 

Good and Bad Taste. — ^The same 
trend can be seen in decoration. Wall 
papers in solid colors, and hard-wood 
floors or solid-colored floor coverings, 
with rugs of Oriental patterns, are 
preferred to the large figured carpets, 
rugs, and wall papers with their so- 
called " cheerful " or bright and con- 
trasted colors. Stuffed plush, and 
other upholstered articles of furniture 




"Much Less Purchased than Formerly. 



in bright colors, or large figured de- 
signs, are being much less purchased 
than formerly. 

All this is a result of the Arts- 
and-Crafts movement originating in 
England with WiUlam Morris, invent- 
or of the Morris chair. A number of 
popular magazines are devoted to 



these and kindred subjects, which oc- 
cupy a good deal of space in general 
periodicals of all classes. 

Formerly there was little oppor- 
tunity for persons in small towns and 
remote rural districts either to be- 
come familiar with the right stand- 
ards or to obtain the more approved 
styles of furniture. But the general 
prosperity of recent years has re- 
sulted in many country homes being 
tastefully and elegantly furnished. 
The possibility of buying desirable 
styles on the mail-order plan has 
forced local dealers to keep better and 
more up-to-date stocks of all house- 
hold articles. Moreover, the great 
demand for simplicity of design has 
reduced the cost. There is now a 
good selection of household furniture 
in the less expensive grades upon the 
same models as the most costly and 
tasteful articles. 

FUEinTTJEE 

Furniture should be chosen for sim- 
plicity and durability. The most 
simple designs are usually the most 
artistic, and the most durable arti- 
cles are likely to be the most san- 
itary. Quiet and subdued colors and 
dull finishes are the most restful and 
generally satisfactory, although the 
high polish of such furniture as ma- 
hogany is preferred by many people. 
To produce a soothing and restful ef- 
fect all the colors in a given room 
should be in harmony. The artistic 
quality that makes an article of fur- 
niture an object of beauty as well as 
of use should be sought in the lines 
of the design itself, rather than in 
additions by way of decoration. Cheap 
furniture stamped with scrolls and 
other designs in imitation of carving 
or the torturing of the natural lines 
of a piece of furniture into various 
fanciful knobs, curves, and scrolls, 
sometimes facetiously called " ginger- 
bread," have little to recommend 
them. The modern Craftsman and 
Mission styles of furniture indicate a 
change in the right direction. Not all 
of these designs are of equal value; 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



35, 



but for the most part they are simple, 
durable, and derive their beauty from 
their appropriateness and the natural 
lines on which they are constructed. 
Dainty white and gold spider-legged 




"Modem Craftsman^and Mission 



furniture has no place except in draw- 
ing-rooms of wealth and extreme con- 
ventionality. 

Antique Furniture. — The craze for 
second-hand or antique furniture is, 
on the whole, rather absurd. Very 
few persons indeed are able to distin- 
guish a real antique from an imita- 
tion. Dealers in these goods may not 
only willfully deceive, but are often 
deceived themselves by persons who 
have so-called antiques, manufactured 
in America, shipped abroad and re- 
shipped to this country. The wood is 
not infrequently given the appearance 
of age by being buried in the ground, 
eaten with acids, or riddled vrith fine 
shot in imitation of worm holes. 

Even the cloth or leather in which 
the goods are upholstered may be 
given the effect of wear by mechan- 
ical means, and the whole may be 
placed on the market by fraud in 
such a way as to suggest that the 
articles are heirlooms. 

Modern furniture, made on the same 
models, can be obtained at much low- 
er prices, and is much more satisfac- 
tory than these supposed antiques. 



But, as a rule, antique pieces are not 
desirable unless a room can be fur- 
nished with them and can have all its 
appointments in harmony with the 
antique style. 

Furnishing. — William Morris says: 
"Have nothing in your home that. you 
do not know to be useful or believe 
to be beautiful." It is a, good rule in 
furnishing a new home to buy first 
only what is absolutely necessary, and 
not to buy an article that is not im- 
mediately required because it is beau- 
tiful or cheap, or for any other rea- 
son. After living for a while with 
only the few articles that are abso- 
lutely necessary, it will be easier to 
see just wha,t is required that will 
harmonize with the articles already 
purchased and their surroundings and 
help to make a satisfactory whole. 

Moreover, the longer one lives with- 
out unnecessary furnishings the more 
he is likely to appreciate the wisdom 
of simplicity. Every new article pur- 
chased is a new care, and a, few ob- 
jects of good quality in a room give 
a much more elegant effect than a 
large number of less desirable pieces. 
Hence there is no reason why any 
family, whether in the city or the 
country, cannot furnish their home in 
a thoroughly modern way that will 
always be in good taste and will be 
in good style for many years to come. 

Refurnishing. — It would, of course, 
very rarely happen that a family could 
afford or would wish to discard serv- 
iceable articles because they are not 
in good style or good taste according 
to present fashion. But as such arti- 
cles wear out and have to be replaced, 
or as additions are made from time to 
time, it is quite possible to refurnish 
in such a way that in comparatively 
few years the entire contents of the 
home will be modernized. Hence the 
importance of some knowledge of the 
subjects of harmony and color, sim- 
plicity, design, and durability in ma- 
terial and in modes. 

Color Schemes. — The most pleasing 
effects in decoration are obtained by 
treating each room or group of con- 
nected rooms in such a. way as to get 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



a harmonious general effect or color 
scheme. And the color scheme must, 
of course, be chosen with reference to 
the purpose for which the room is 
intended, its shape and size, and the 
amount of sunlight it receives. Rooms 
can be so treated as to seem higher 
or broader than they are, the amount 
of light can be increased or subdued, 
and each room can be given a distinct 
tone and individuality appropriate to 
the uses to which it is put. This way 
of decorating does not necessarily cost 
any more than any other. It merely 
requires some knowledge and skUl that 
can easily be acquired. 

The basis of the color scheme is, of 
course, in the background provided by 
the wall and floor coverings and the 
woodwork. But all the furnishings 
should be selected so as to form, with 
the background, a harmonious whole. 
Hence the subj ect naturally divides it- 
self into the separate topics of wood- 
work, wall coverings, floor coverings, 
and furniture. And the last topic can 
be best taken up in connection with 
each of the different rooms, as the liv- 
ing room, dining room, bedrooms, etc. 

Color and Light. — Some colors re- 
flect a large part of the light that falls 
upon them; others absorb it. The 
various shades of green are the great- 
est thieves of light. A dark-green wall 
will absorb about 85 per cent of the 
light; a dark brown perhaps 70 per 
cent; a light green, SO per cent; an 
orange or yellow, 25 or 30 per cent; 
light blue, 35 per cent; and soft, deli- 
cate tints about 10 per cent. But of 
course these figures are only approxi- 
mate. Pure white absorbs about 15 
per cent of the light thrown upon it. 
Hence suitable color schemes for rooms 
facing south that need toning down 
are greens or the dull shades of blue, 
^cru, or tan. 

For rooms facing west the lighter 
shades of green, with rose, terra cotta, 
or white, are appropriate. White 
enamel furniture with brass trimmings 
is suitable for such apartments. 

North and east rooms require warm 
tones of yellow, with which yellow oak 
furniture harmonizes, or warm shades 



of red, which harmonizes with Mission 
oak. 

Most men would agree to Eugene 
Field's remark that " almost any color 
suited him, so long as it was red." 
Hence red is a suitable color for the 
furnishing of a man's room or den. 

For the dining room, provided it is 
a bright, sunny room, a suitable color 
is blue or grayish blue, harmonizing 
with the tones of delft china. Or, if 
the dining room is less well lighted, a 
rich warm tone of yellow gives a sun- 
ny atmosphere to the room. But avoid 
yellow of a greenish or lemon cast. 

For the hall, a suitable color is 
green. And for the living room, green 
or a warm shade of russet brown, to 
harmonize with the green of the haU. 

Bedrooms should be preferably in 
light and delicate colors. 

WALL COVEBIirOS 

The materials commonly used for 
wall coverings are chiefly of three 
sorts, paper, cloth, and paint, or 
washes applied direct to the waUs. 
The last method is much more gen- 
erally used than formerly. Wall pa- 
pers are cheaper but less durable than 
cloth. Suitable tints and stains in 
water colors and calcimine are cheaper 
than either, and also more durable. 

Wall Papers. — Perhaps the com- 
monest wall coverings are the wall 
papers of various grades, from the 
ordinary wood-pulp paper costing but 
a few cents a roll, to the highest 
grades of cartridge, ingrain, or duplex 
papers, imitations of leather, and 
other specialties. 

Wall papers are very cheap, and 
anyone can readily learn how to hang 
them. Hence there is no reason why 
rooms should not be repapered as 
often as is necessary to keep them 
fresh and clean. 

Wall papers are especially suitable 
to walls that are rough or uneven, and 
to walls of houses that are not suffi- 
ciently weU built. By suitable treat- 
ment paper can be hung on almost 
any wall, and it assists in keeping the 
rooms tight and warm. 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



sr 



Colors and Patterns. — The plain 
cartridge, ingrain, or duplex papers in 
solid colors are the most approved and 
among the most satisfactory wall pa- 
pers, especially for living rooms in 
general use. The absence of any pat- 
tern or design brings out in full relief 
the pictures upon the walls and other 
ornaments, and helps to give a quiet 
air of luxury to the apartment. But 
these are somewhat more expensive 
than ordinary waU papers, and require 
a smoother wall surface and better 
care in hanging. The edges must be 
trimmed on both sides and "butted," 
or brought together side by side, tight 
enough not to show the wall between 
them, instead of being overlapped, as 
with ordinary papers. Otherwise the 
thickness of the paper would make a 
ridge which, on account of the solid 
color, would be plainly visible. This 
requires some skiU, but with a, little 
practice can be done by anyone. The 
edge should be trimmed with a sharp 
knife by means of a straightedge 
rather than with shears. 

Next to the ingrain papers, the two- 
toned or double-toned papers, having 
a subdued pattern in another shade or 
tint of the same color as the ground- 
work, are preferred for the living 
room. 

Good taste demands the selection of 
a paper having a comparatively small 
and simple design, and without large 
figures or striking and glaring con- 
trasts of color. Large-figured papers 
deprive pictures and other ornaments 
of all artistic effect and make the wall, 
which should be merely a background, 
stand out obtrusively. 

How to Choose Wall Paper. — The 
effect of wall papers cannot be weU 
judged from small samples. Hence 
when possible choose from the stock 
itself and have two or three widths 
unrolled side by side to get the gen- 
eral effect. Remember that vertical 
stripes make a room seem higher than 
it is, that large figures and dark col- 
ors make It seem smaller, and that a 
simple design in natural outlines, as 
a landscape or flowers and foliage, has 
perspective and tends to give an effect 



of greater width. Hence it may be 
suitable for halls or narrow apart- 
ments. 

Figured papers in dainty patterns, 
as poppies, roses, or other natural 
blossoms, are more suitable for bed- 
rooms than for living rooms. They 
can be selected to suit almost any kind 
of color scheme. Solid colors seem to 
make the walls retire; hence they give 
the effect of broadening and enlarging 
the apartment. This is especially true 
of the lighter shades. Mother Goose 
and other figured papers in suitable 
designs may be had for children's 
rooms and nurseries, imitation leather 
for dining rooms and halls, and water- 
proof oilcloth papers for bathrooms, 
kitchens, etc. 

Ceilings. — ^Various desirable effects 
may be produced in wall coverings by 
the treatment of the ceiling. Low 
rooms may be given an effect of great- 
er height by the use of a two-toned 
paper in narrow, vertical stripes, car- 
ried clear to the ceiling without a 




" Veriical Stripes Carried Clear to the Ceiling." 



border, and by fastening the picture 
molding as close to the celling as it 
will go. On the other hand, rooms 
that are too narrow in proportion to 
other dimensions may be given a bet- 
ter effect by lowering the picture 
molding one to two feet or more and 
papering up to the molding, but not 
above, the upper part (fi the wall be- 
ing whitewashed or calcimined in the 
same materials as the ceiling. 
Ceilings that have rough or crooked 



38 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



places which cannot be repaired may 
be hung with a paper of the same 
quality as the walls, but usually of a 
lighter tint. The border may be put 
on around the edge of the ceiling in- 
stead of aroimd the top of the wall, 
thus giving the room the effect of 
greater height. 

Or ceilings may be whitewashed or 
calcimined, or tinted with water col- 
ors, with or without stenciled borders 
or frescoes. 

Dadoes. — The effect of any room may 
be improved by a chair rail around the 
walls three feet from the floor. Suit- 
able material can be procured from 
dealers in picture moldings. This will, 
of course, be painted the same color 
as the woodwork. 

On the wall below hang cotton or 
linen cloth previously painted with 
boiled linseed oil and well dried, or 
cheap ingrain paper, and when dry 
paint this wall covering the same color 
as the woodwork. 

Or this dado may be developed with 
picture molding, the corners being 
mitered the same as picture frames. 
With the aid of a homemade miter- 
box anyone who is handy with tools 
can do this work. 

Test for Wall Paper. — To test green 
wall paper for the presence of arsenic 
in dangerous quantities dip a sample 
in aqua ammonia. If arsenic is pres- 
ent, the paper will turn from green 
to blue. 

Or light a piece of the paper with 
a match, and when burning briskly 
blow it out. The presence of arsenic 
may be detected by an odor similar to 
that of garlic. 

Wall Coverings — Cloth. — ^Various 
grades of prepared cloth wall cover- 
ings are obtainable, as silk, linen, and 
burlap. These are more expensive 
than paper, and are objected to by 
some on the ground that they catch 
dust and are unsanitary, unless regu- 
larly swept and dusted every day. But 
these materials when of good quality 
are very durable, and furnish perhaps 
the most artistic of all backgrounds 
for pictures and other decorations. 
Burlap is more suitable for outer halls 



or rooms furnished with heavy oak or 
Mission furniture. Silks and linens 
harmonize with mahogany and with 
the lighter and more graceful furni- 
ture of parlors and drawing-rooms. 

To Color Walls. — The Arts-and- 
Crafts movement is introducing the 
custom of tinting walls in waterproof 




'Stencil Added Above. 



colors without the use of cloth or pa- 
per hangings, either in solid colors or 
with the addition of designs by means 
of stencils. The wall is usually tinted 
in a solid color, and the stencil added 
above the picture molding by way of 
border. 




" Protected by Means of a Dado." 

Or the walls may be painted for 
half or two thirds of their height and 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



39 



sanded and tinted above, a light 
tnolding of simple design being used 
to divide the two surfaces. The 
molding should be painted the same 
color as tlie woodworls:. 

Or a chair rail and painted dado 
may be used, and the walls tinted 
above. 

Stairways. — Paper for stairways 
may be the same as the hall paper. 
It often becomes soiled along the bot- 
tom, and may be protected by means 
of a dado \ about three feet high car- 
ried around the hall and up the 
stairway, and surmounted by a light 
wooden molding painted to corre- 
spond to the adjacent woodwork^ 

FLOOB COVSIIINOS 

The principal kinds of floor cover- 
ings in common use are rugs of vari- 
ous kinds, both Oriental and domes- 
tic; carpets, and oilcloths, including 
linoleum. Of carpets, the most im- 
portant in the order of their value 
and desirability are Chenille Axmin- 
ster, Wilton Axminster, Moquette, 
Velvet, Brussels, Tapestry Brussels, 
Ingrain or Kidderminster, two or 
three ply, Venetian, and old-fash- 
ioned rag carpet. 

Chenille Axminster is an imported 
carpet, consisting of worsted chenille 
woven in strips upon a jute backing. 
It comes three fourths of a yard wide 
in rolls, and may also be obtained in 
whole rugs or carpets specially de- 
signed for any kind of room. These 
are imported, principally from Scot- 
land. 

Domestic Axminster and UCoquette 
are much alike. They have a thick, 
high, tufted pile, which is very dur- 
able. The Axminster is usually of 
better material and construction than 
the Moquette. The groundwork of 
these carpets is jute or cotton. The 
pile consists of tufts of soft woolen 
yarn fastened upon the groundwork 
so as to make the design. As each 
color in the design of these carpets is 
furnished from a separate roll, acting 
independently, any number of colors 
may be employed. Hence the most 



elaborate patterns and shadings of 
color may be had in these carpets. 

Wilton and Brussels are made upon 
a groundwork of linen with a face of 
worsted in raised loops. In Brus- 
sels carpet these loops remain uncut, 
whereas in Wilton they are cut and 
the pile is sheared smooth. These 
loops are formed of woolen threads of 
continuous colors which, to form the 
design, are thrust through the warp 
threads at intervals by means of wires. 
As each color comes to the surface 
independently of the others, the de- 
signs are exceptionally clear and per- 
fect, but the number of threads that 
can be employed conveniently is lim- 
ited; hence there are fewer colors and 
much less shading in these carpets 
than in Axminster or Moquette. 

Velvet and Tapestry Brussels are 
constructed on the same principle as 
Wilton and Brussels, except that the 
worsted threads which form the sur- 
face are not of continuous colors, but 
have the colors forming the design 
printed upon them before the fabric 
is woven; hence, without any addi- 
tional expense, any number of colors 
may be employed. For this reason 
the designs of Velvet and Tapestry 
Brussels are much more elaborate in 
color and shading than the Wilton or 
Brussels carpets. Tapestry carpets 
are more commonly used than any 
other kind except Ingrains, and hence 
they give rise in this country to the 
most important branch of carpet 
manufacture. , 

Ingrain or Kidderminster carpet is 
the only kind of which both warp and 
woof is of wool. Hence it may be 
turned and worn on either side, al- 
though it shows a right and a wrong 
side in point of color. Its name of 
" Kidderminster " is derived from the 
city in which it was formerly manu- 
factured on a large scale. The names 
"Ingrain" and "three-ply" arise from 
the fact that there are two grades, 
one of which consists of two layers 
interwoven or " ingrained " to cause 
the colors of the design to change or 
mingle, whereas the other has three 
layers similarly put together. 



40 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Venetian is made on a coarse 
ground of hemp filling with a woolen 
warp. It usually comes in stripes and 
is largely manufactured for stair cov- 
erings. 

Oilcloth consists of a foundation of 
burlap covered with a number of coat- 
ings of coarse paint. The pattern is 
printed on the surface with wooden 
blocks, one for each color. Oilcloth 
may be obtained in any width from 
three feet to twenty-four feet, but is 
ordinarily sold in narrow widths and 
medium weights. 

In purchasing oilcloth first look at 
the back and choose a grade of cloth 
the background of which is closely 
woven. Next see that the coating of 
paint is of good weight or thickness, 
and choose a cloth having a smooth 
surface rather than one which is 
coarse or has a raised pattern. These 
portions are the first to wear. 

Oilcloth improves with age as the 
paint hardens; hence select, if pos- 
sible, a piece which has been a long 
time in stock. 

Iiinolenm is a coined word for a 
floorcloth consisting of a mixture of 
oxidized linseed oil and pulverized 
cork. This is laid upon a foundation 
of coarse burlap and made to adhere 
by pressure. Linoleum was invented 
by ah Englishman, William Walton, 
and was formerly sold at rather high 
prices on account of a monopoly in 
the use of the patents in the United 
States. The patents have now expired 
and linoleum is being sold in competi- 
tion with oilcloths for floor coverings. 
It presents a better appearance, is 
much more durable, and hence is 
cheaper in the long run. Oilcloths 
and linoleums, if of good quality and 
properly laid, are perhaps the best of 
all floor coverings for kitchen, pantry, 
laundry, or any other room where wet 
or greasy substances are likely to be 
spiUed or where there is a great deal 
of wear. A good grade of linoleum in 
a solid color also makes a desirable 
background for Oriental or other rugs 
as a substitute for a hard-wood floor. 

To Lay Oilcloth. — The floors of 
many rooms, especially in houses that 



have been standing for many years, 
become very rough. The cracks widen, 
and some boards wear or settle more 
than others, making the surface un- 
even. This condition presents two 
difficulties: the cracks admit draughts 
from beneath, and the sharp and un- 
even edges wear the floor coverings. 
Linoleums and oilcloths being stiff 
and brittle are especially liable to 
wear and break along these cracks; 
hence, before laying these floor 
coverings, put down a number of 
thicknesses of newspapers. These 
will also prevent the floor covering, 
when heated by the sun or by the 
heat of a stove, from sticking to the 
floor. 

Or use carpet felt or carpet linings 
obtainable from dealers for this pur- 
pose. 

Or cover the floor evenly with saw- 
dust by working it into the cracks as 
much as possible. 

Or spread over the floor a rather 
thick coating of fine dry sand. 

Any of these methods makes a solid 
filling that increases the life of the 
oilcloth many years. 

To Varnish Oilcloths. — Oilcloth and 
linoleum may be much improved in 
appearance, and also indefinitely pre- 
served by an occasional coat of var- 
nish. To apply a fresh coat once in 
three months is not too often. This 
freshens the colors, prevents the oU- 
cloth from cracking, and, by lessening 
friction, makes it much easier to clean. 
If linoleum is used as a background 
for rugs in bedrooms or living rooms 
it may be painted, in imitation of va- 
rious colors of wood, with any of the 
modern varnish paints which contain 
stains, and dry with a smooth, glossy 
surface. When so treated a good lino- 
leum makes an imitation of a hard- 
wood floor, which can hardly be ex- 
celled either for beauty or durability. 
It is especially useful in those cases 
where a large rug is used for the cen- 
ter of the room with an open border 
about it. It is, of course, much bet- 
ter in such cases to cover the entire 
room with linoleum, and to lay the 
rug upon this. 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



41 



To Renew Linoleum. — Old pieces of 
linoleum may often be made as good 
as new by first washing them with a 
strong solution of sal soda, ammonia, 
and soapsuds to remove the original 
color. Then apply a coat of any good 
light-colored paint, and lay over this 
any desired color of varnish paint in 
imitation of the woodwork. Instruc- 
tions as to what paint to use may be 
had from the dealers. Always allow 
' paint and varnish to become thor- 
oughly dry and hard before walking 
upon it. 

Use of Floor Coverings. — Floor cov- 
erings doubtless originated in the use 
by our primitive ancestors of the skins 
of animals as rugs, and the earliest 
floor coverings used by civilized na- 
tions were in the form of rugs. This 
usage still continues in the Orient. 

The later custom of manufacturing 
carpets and other floor coverings in 
long, narrow strips, to be joined to- 
geth'er, grew out of the desire to 
cheapen the process of manufacture 
by adapting the size of the fabrics to 
the uses of the loom. The custom of 
covering the entire floor of a room 
with carpet or other floor covering 
doubtless arose, in great degree, from 
the desire to cover cracks, knots, and 
other unsightly defects in cheap and 
badly made floors, to prevent soft- 
wood floors from wearing, and also to 
lessen draughts from the cracks be- 
tween floor boards. 

The present tendency among well- 
to-do people is back to the original 
idea of scattering rugs upon a smooth, 
polished surface. The ideal floor is 
undoubtedly of hard wood, properly 
laid and highly polished. This is the 
most sanitary, durable, and beautiful 
of all floors. It is the easiest to clean, 
and furnishes an ideal foundation as 
a basis for any interior decoration. 
The growing wealth of farmers as a 
class throughout the great central 
West and elsewhere, by reason of im- 
proved machinery and modern scien- 
tific methods of agriculture, has re- 
sulted in the building and furnishing 
of many homes having floors of this 
sort in the smallest towns and rural 



districts throughout the United States. 
Moreover, modern means of transpor- 
tation, as trolley systems, interurhaij 
electric railways, automobiles, and the 
upbuilding of local telephone systems, 
have promoted the building in rural 
neighborhoods of a vast number of 
summer homes. There is hardly a 
community in the United States where 
modern houses constructed with pol- 
ished hard-wood floors and furnished 
with Oriental or domestic rugs as floor 
coverings is not to be seen. 

Another great educator has been the 
periodicals devoted to home making 
and especially catering to the class of 
suburban residents above mentioned. 
These models have set the fashion 
for bare floors and rugs, and there is 
no doubt but that as time goes on 
this custom will become increasingly 
popular. 

Hard-wood floors may be laid under 
certain conditions over old floors, and 
be all the better for having another 
flooring beneath them, but they are 
somewhat expensive. Hence numerous 
ingenious methods have been used to 
secure the same result by imitation. 

To Imitate Hard-wood Floors. — Ob- 
tain a suitable hard-wood filler, and 




"Apply a Good Stain." 

press it into the cracks in the floor 
according to directions. Take care to 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



smooth the filler exactly level after 
the cracks have been filled. When this 
substance hardens, the floor will be 
smooth and even, and all danger from 
draughts will be permanently done 
away. Next apply a good stain of 
any desired color to match the wood- 
work, or apply a suitable paint mixed 
with varnish that will dry, leaving a 
hard, smooth, glossy surface. 

Soluble Glass for Eloors. — Instead 
of the old-fashioned method of using 
wax for polished floors, etc., soluble 
glass is now employed to great advan- 
tage. For this purpose the floor is 
first well cleaned, and then the cracks 
are weU filled up with a cement of 
water glass and powdered chalk or 
gypsum. Afterwards a water glass of 
60° to 65°, of the thickness of sirup, 
is applied by means of a stiff brush. 
Any desired color may be imparted to 
the floor in a second coat of the water 
glass, and additional coats given until 
the requisite polish is obtained. A 
stUl higher finish may be given by 
pumicing off the last layer, and then 
putting on a coating of oil. 

Or denim of good quality in solid 
colors may be laid upon the floor as a 
background for the rugs. But when 
this material is used the rugs must be 
large enough and numerous enough to 
cover most of the surface and receive 
the greater part of the wear. 

Or use heavy building paper pasted 
smoothly to the floors, and apply to 
this two or more coats of varnish 
paint. This material wears well and 
presents a good appearance. 

Or heavy unbleached cotton or denim 
may be treated by tacking it against a 
building or laying it on a floor which 
is not in use, and applying with a 
paint brush one or two coats of lin- 
seed oil. After this is dry, apply a 
coat of varnish or "lac" paint, let 
dry and apply a second coat. After- 
wards apply a coat of varnish. Let 
the cloth dry thoroughly before using. 
This is a good and cheap substitute 
for oilcloth and linoleum for kitchen 
floors and all other purposes. 

Or matting may be used, especially 
in bedrooms, sewing room, sitting 



room, and even in the parlor if the 
rugs are of the right size and number 
and of sufBciently good quality. 

Or the floor may be covered, espe- 
cially in the sitting room, where there 
is more or less tracking in of mud 
and dirt, and in bedrooms, with a 
good quality of linoleum, wiiich may 
be stained and painted in imitation 
of a hard-wood floor, or to correspond 
with the woodwork. 

The great advantage offered by the 
bare wood or a smooth surface such 
as linoleum is that it can be readily 
kept clean and free from dust, dirt, 
and all sorts of vermin. Rugs may 
be taken up and beaten out of doors 
and thoroughly aired on the line, and 
every particle of dust and dirt can be 
readily removed by wiping over the 
floor with a damp cloth drawn bag 
fashion over the head of a broom. 
Good rugs, both Oriental and domes- 
tic, are no more expensive than the 
same grades of carpet, and their use 
is to be decidedly recommended for 
artistic and sanitary reasons as well 
as from a labor-saving standpoint. 

Denim. — ^Denim is perhaps the most 
generally popular floor covering as a 
background for rugs when cost is 
taken into account. But it is not, of 




(|S!|i ll! ill :iiui I! F' 
!t,« it. ii : ii ■ 'I >i 1 






ll(f 



k 



m 







"Fitting . . . Transformed into Rugs." 

course, as durable as carpet, and does 
not come in fast colors. When partly 
worn, however, denim may be woven 
into rugs or converted into carpet rags. 
Filling. — An aU-wool ingrain "fill- 
ing" in greens and other solid colors 
is another popular floor covering much 
used as a background for rugs. This 
is very durable, but like denim tends 
to fade in comparatively few years, 
and must then be redyed or trans- 
formed into rugs. 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



43 



To Choose Carpets.— The effect of 
design in carpets is much the same as 
in wall paper. Large patterns tend 
to make a room seem small, and bor- 
ders about the carpet have the same 
effect. The present tendency favors 
carpets in solid colors or having small 
and delicate patterns. Large patterns 
and all sorts of glaring contrasts of 
color should be avoided. Both very 
dark and very light carpets are diffi- 
cult to keep clean, and carpets con- 
taining blue, green, or other delicate 
colors, when exposed to simlight, tend 
to fade. 

As to color, carpets should, of 
course, harmonize with the general 
color scheme of the room. But as 
they cannot be changed as frequently 
as the wall coverings, they should, as 
a rule, be in neutral colors that will 
harmonize with almost any other 
scheme that may be adopted. 

A point in favor of carpets having 
small patterns is that the two webs of 
which the carpet consists are much 
inore closely interwoven if the design 
is small than if the pattern is a large 
one. Hence the carpet having a small 
design is likely to be more durable. 
Moreover, where there are no large 
patterns to attract the eye the results 
of wear are not so noticeable. 

As to material, ingrain or three-ply 
carpets being of wool and capable of 
being turned and worn on both sides, 
probably give most wear for the 
money of any carpets on the market. 
But Brussels and tapestry carpets, 
which are somewhat more expensive, 
are also, on account of their beauty 
and excellent wearing qualities, in 
very general use. 

Rag Carpet. — This is the cheapest 
carpet of all and can readily be made 
on a hand loom at home. It makes a 
thi^ and serviceable covering for the 
floors of kitchen or living rooms in 
winter. To make rag carpet, use a 
warp of strong cotton thread, and 
weave in any kind of rags twisted 
into small rolls. 

To Color Bag-carpet Warp. — First 
use a strong cotton yarn reeled into 
skeins of five knots. About one skein 



to the yard of carpet will be required, 
with about three knots additional for 
binding at the end of each breadth. 

For tan color first soak the warp 
thoroughly with lime water; next boil 
it in a brass or copper kettle in a 
strong solution of extract of hemlock 
bark in water. This is used by tan- 
ners for making leather, and may be 
obtained through a tanner or dealer 
i> dye stuff. 

For black color soak the warp in 
strong copperas water instead of lime 
water, and use iron or tin vessels in- 
stead of brass or copper. Afterwards 
boil in the hemlock solution. 

For slate color use weaker solu- 
tions of copperas and hemlock. 

For brown use a weak solution of 
copperas and a strong solution of 
hemlock. Thus, by a little experi- 
menting, the shades of color may be 
varied at will. 

Carpet Bags. — The contents of the 
rag bag should be first picked over, 
and rags intended to be used as car- 
pet rags should be washed and ironed 
and afterwards ripped apart. Seams 
and worn spots should be rejected. 
They should then be sorted according 
to the colors of materials, and if not 
needed at once, stored away for fu- 
ture use in paper bags. Woolen rags 
should be protected against moths by 
pasting the tops otthe bags together. 

Rags of fast and satisfactory col- 
ors need not be dyed. But better 
effects may often be obtained by dye- 
ing all rags to suitable colors. 

To cut carpet rags, trim around the 
outside of the rag, clipping off square 
corners, and continue cutting round 
and round until the rag is all cut up. 
By this means small pieces may be 
utilized, the rags will be of satisfac- 
tory length, and will require less sew- 
ing. Cotton rags and rags of fine 
dress goods make a smoother and bet- 
ter-looking carpet than rags of heavy 
woolen colors. Hence the latter had 
better be kept separate and made 
into rugs or kitchen carpets. 

The quantity of rags required for a 
carpet may be estimated by weight. 
For each yard one and one half to two 



44 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



pounds of rags, depending upon the 
material, will be required. In sewing, 
it is better to mix the different shades 
of the same color so that the stripes 
will be of an even and uniform shade. 
Thus the breadths will present the 
same appearance. But if the pepper- 
and-salt pattern is desired all the 
colors may be mixed together. For 
this kind of carpet short pieces may 
be utilized. Rag carpets also come 
by the piece and may be bought in 
shops by the yard, the same as others. 
But when made at home or woven to 
order they can be ordered to fit the 
room, the breadths being made exact- 
ly to measure and bound up at the 
ends. Allowance in ordering should 
be made for shrinkage, as the breadths 
tend to become a little shorter and 
wider with wear. 

To Cut Carpets. — Before cutting a 
new carpet, unroll a little more than 
twice the length of the room, double 
this in the middle so that the edges 
will come side by side, and work it 
back and forth so as to match the 
pattern at a length a little longer than 
that of the room. The required num- 
ber of strips can thus be cut in such a 
way that the pattern wUl be matched 
exactly without waste. 

Try both ways on the floor before 
cutting, as it may be more economical 
to cut the lengths for the short way 
of the floor. Any pieces wasted in 
matching the pattern may be used to 
make rugs or foot stools, or to fill in 
recesses. 

To Sew Carpets. — Sew with the 
through-and-through stitch, very close 
together. 

Straw Hatting. — ^When purchasing 
straw matting it is advisable to buy 
the best grade of fine white or unfig- 
nred matting for all rooms alike; thus 
as it wears out it can be readily 
matched or replaced by putting good 
matting from two rooms together in 
one. 

Matting Rugs. — Cut suitable lengths 
of matting and hem with twine string 
for use as summer rugs. Two or more 
breadths may be attached together if 
desired to make wide rugs. Use plain, 



or apply paint, or stain of any desired 
color. A large square rug can be 
made in this way to occupy the center 
of the floor, a border being made by 
painting or staining the floor, or cov- 
ering with green denim or drugget. 

Rag Rugs. — Very durable and use- 
ful rugs may be made of all sorts of 
old rags in the same fashion as a rag 
carpet, or by braiding, or they may be 
knitted or drawn through burlap or 
canvas as in embroidery. Small pieces 
maybe utilized by commencing at one 
side and cutting the width of a car- 
pet rug almost to the end, then turn- 
ing a corner and cutting along the 
side, and so going around the outside 
until the piece is cut up. After clip- 
ping off the square corners the rag 
will be found to be of convenient 
length. Carpet rags should be wound 
into balls of uniform size. They catch 
less dust, and do not become tangled. 
When ready to tack them, have a sew- 
ing bee, or run them up on the sewing 
machine. This will enable you to do 
them very quickly. 

Old stocking legs make especially 
pretty rugs. 

To Make Drawn Rugs. — First pre- 
pare a frame by nailing together four 
pieces of lathe or other light pine 
stuff, and stretch on this a piece of 
strong burlap or coarse canvas. Pre- 
pare the rags by cutting them in a 
uniform width of one half inch or less, 
and wind each color in a separate ball. 
Draw the rags through the burlap by 
means of a hook, that can be extem- 
porized from a piece of wire. Insert 
the hook from above between the warp 
and woof of the burlap, and draw the 
rag up from below so as to form 
loops projecting at imiform heights 
above the burlap. This is the prin- 
ciple upon which Axminster carpet is 
made. A design may be traced on 
the burlap by means of chalk or char- 
coal, and the outlines drawn with two 
or three rows of rags in different col- 
ors. A little experience will indicate 
how closely together to draw the loops, 
which should project a half inch or 
less above the burlap. If desired, the 
loops may afterwards be clipped, as 



HOUSE FUENISHING AND DECORATING 



45 



is done with the Wilton carpets, by 
means of a sharp pair of scissors. 

CTTBTAINS, SHADES, AITD DBAFEBIES 

The use of curtains originated be- 
fore the invention of glass, when win- 
dows were either open or imperfectly 
protected against draughts. They 
originally hung straight down across 
the sash. 

At present the object of window 
shades and curtains is primarily to 
regulate the amount of light in the 
room, and to screen the interior, when 
desired, from observation from with- 
out. It is a prime rule of good taste 
in decoration that it must not be al- 
lowed to interfere with the purpose 
for which a thing is intended. Hence 
curtains and draperies that cannot be 
drawn aside to admit the light, or let 
fall to exclude it, are objectionable. 
Curtains for French windows should 
be arranged with cords and pulleys 
so as to be brought out of the way 
when the windows are opened, or ad- 
justed on rods long enough so that 
they can be drawn to one side. 

Window Curtains. — Some city 
houses have three or four sets of 




"Simpler Mdhcds . . . Are Gaining Favor." 



curtains, but the simpler methods of 
country houses are gaining in favor. 
One set is sufficient, and more than 



two are undesirable. A thin semi- 
transparent curtain of lace, net, or 
muslin, in white or 6cvu, may be used 
next the glass. This may either be 
crossed at the top and hang straight 
down or be draped at the middle sash 
with a band. This is a question of 
taste and depends upon the propor- 
tions of the room and the window. 
When an inner curtain of heavy ma- 
terial is used the lace or net curtain 
should usually be draped to soften the 
outlines. Lace or net curtains are 
usually, but not always, used down- 
stairs, and less expensive curtains of 
muslin are used for bedrooms and 
other upstairs windows. 

Materials for Window Curtains. — 
Lace curtains may be purchased ready 
made. Or curtains may be made of 
bobbinet or similar material and edged 
with ruffles or suitable lace. Or Cluny 
lace may be used by way of insertion. 
Plain scrim, with no other decoration 
than hemstitched hems, makes hand- 
some curtains. They launder easily 
and well. If they bleach with, time 
they can be restored to their original 
color by being dipped in dilute coffee. 
The best materials for bedrooms are 
dotted Swiss or other muslins. Other 
serviceable materials are India linen, 
Aberdeen linen, Persian cotton, cre- 
tonnes, and linen taffetas. The reps 
of various fabrics — cotton, wool, and 
silk — all hang well and are soft and 
graceful. 

Any suitable material may be scal- 
loped along the edge by means of a 
tumbler. Mark around this with chalk 
or pencil. Buttonhole the scallop^ and 
work in them polka dots or other sim- 
ple design. 

Muslin Curtains. — For bedroom 
curtains it pays to buy various cotton 
materials like dimity and muslin by 
the piece, and to make them all the 
same style. It is wise to keep to the 
same pattern, as dots or small rings, 
and to buy new pieces the same as 
the old, or as nearly so as they can be 
matched. Then new curtains can be 
used with the old. As the curtains 
begin to wear they can be put to- 
gether as pairs, or changed from 



46 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



room to room as long as any two are 
left 

Or when curtains from the living 
rooms wear on the edges, trim them 
off, hem them neatly, and turn the 
edged border toward the sash. They 
will make good curtains for bedrooms 
or other inconspicuous windows that 
will l^st for years. 

Dyeing Curtains. — All cotton mate- 
rials can be readily dyed by dipping 
them in dye stuff after they have been 
washed and rinsed in the laundry. 
Thus the curtains can be made to 
conform to any desired color shade. 

Cheese cloth when dyed in suitable 
colors makes pretty and inexpensive 
curtains. Hemmed bands or borders 
of striped silkoline or other suitable 
material add a decorative effect. Dark 
green trimmed with a stripe in Orien- 
tal design and coloring makes a very 
pretty curtain. 

Or take cheese cloth or unbleached 
sheeting which may be any old mate- 
rial as old sheets, from which pieces 
of suitable size can be cut for cur- 



i°?r 



iMiniiniiw 




'Decorative Border in OilPairds: 



tains, and dye them in any suitable 
shade. White cotton dipped in a deep 
brown dye and afterwards in a deep 
green gives a beautiful gray-green 
color. 

Or unbleached cotton sheeting can 
be stenciled or hand painted with a 
decorative border in oil paints thinned 
slightly with turpentine, and thus 
given a very artistic effect. Cut the 
curtain wide enough so that the inner 



edge of each pair may be turned over 
eight inches. Fold this strip top and 
bottom into squares. Mark the squares 
by means of a stencil and paint any 
design to form the border. 

To Hang lace Curtains. — To hang 
lace curtains without assistance, first 
adjust the pole; throw the top of the 
curtain loosely over the pole; then, by 
means of a common pin or tack, fas- 
ten each scallop to the skirting board 
just above the carpet or along the 
floor. The curtain may then be drawn 
up rather firmly over the pole so that 
when the pins are removed the cur- 
tain wiU have been stretched just 
enough to lift it off the floor. This, 
without jumping down to look, in- 
sures the curtain hanging evenly. 

To Mend lace Curtains. — To mend 
delicate lace and net curtains when 
they first show a tear, take very fine 
thread and a hook and fill up the 
space with a single crochet stitch. 
When laundered the mend will defy 
detection. 

Or when lace curtains are much 
worn, take one or two of the worst 
for patches, and after the others are 
laundered cut a patch to match the 
design of the torn part, dip it in thick 
starch, lay it carefully over the rent, 
and iron it down. The starch will 
cause it to adhere until the curtains 
are laundered again. Strips of net or 
illusion may also be used in the same 
way. 

Sash Curtains. — Use partly worn 
muslin or silk curtains for sash cur- 
tains. The tops and bottoms of old 
curtains that have not had the direct 
rays Of the sun will usually be found 
best for sash curtains. The middle 
part can be discarded. Make a wide 
hem top and bottom through which to 
run the rod. A wide hem is not so 
likely to tear, and the curtains can be 
used either end up. Slip a round- 
headed hat pin into the hollow of the 
rod to run them in the hems, and they 
will pass easily through. Rods may 
be fixed inside the sash so as to be 
elevated with the vrindow and not to 
lean against the screen. Cords tacked 
across the window will prevent the 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



47 



sash curtain from beating against the 
screen. 

Or instead of rods use quarter-inch 
iron wire painted over witli gold paint 
or otherwise gilded or silvered. This 
makes the wire look better and pre- 
vents it from rusting. This wire is 
suitable for shams, mantels, and closet 
curtains, and many similar purposes 
in house decoration. It answers the 
same purpose as brass rods, and is 
much cheaper. It can be purchased 
at any hardware store, cut to any de- 
sired length. 

Flour Sacks. — Large flour sacks 
may be utilized for sash curtains by 
carefully washing out the print and 
finishing with a suitable design in 
fancy work. 

Curtains for Broad Windows. — Di- 
vide a broad, low window, or two win- 
dows together, by running two shelves 
across, one at the top of each sash. 
Paint or stain these to match the 
woodwork. Fit sash curtains to both 
shelves by means of rods or quarter- 
inch iron or copper iron, and hang 




"Divide a Broad Low Window. 



from brass rings. Let the hangings 
match the woodwork or conform to 
the color scheme of the room. The 
upper shelves may be treated as a, 
plate rail, and the lower shelf may 
hold pots of ferns or other green 
plants. 



Window Shades. — A double set of 
window shades — an inner dark shade 
to harmonize with the color scheme of 
the room, and an outer white shade — 
are desirable, but both are not neces- 
sary. It saves carpets and other things 
from fading to exclude the sunshine 
when a room is not in use, and also 
assists in keeping sunny rooms cool in 
summer. Hence, a dark or tan shade 
is to be preferred, unless the house is. 
fitted with blinds. In that case only 
the white shade is necessary. 

To Renew Window Shades. — Trim 
off the soiled or worn part at the bot- 
tom, make a new hem, and put back 
the stick. To do this lay on an iron- 
ing board, curled side down, the part 
of the shade that has been curled up 
over the roller and press it with a hot 
iron. This makes it easy to turn a 
hem, which may be stitched, on the 
sewing machine. Let the stitch out as 
far as it will go so that the fabric 
will not pucker. 

Or, if the shade is too short to trim, 
change the ends by opening the hem 
at the bottom, taking the shades from 
the roller and tacking the bottom of 
the shade to the roller. Make a new 
hem and put back the stick. 

To Hang Window Shades. — To ad- 
j ust the spring on new window shades, 
roll them tight, fasten them into the 
sockets, and draw them down full 
length. Take them out of their sock- 
ets, roll them up again by hand, and 
again draw them down until the spring 
is as strong as desired. 

To Prevent Blowing Window 
Shades. — To prevent the window 
shades from being drawn out at the 
top of the window or blowing back 
and forth when the upper sash is low- 
ered for ventilation, attach the cord 
from the bottom of the shade to the 
back of a chair, and move it a suffi- 
cient distance from the window to 
give a free circulation of air under- 
neath it. 

Substitute for Window Shades. — 
To economize on window shades, the 
upper rooms of a house may be fitted 
with shades of white cotton, having 
the selvage on one side and a very 



48 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



fine hem on the other. By the addi- 
tion of a little glue size or gum arable 
to the starch, they can be made very 
stiff. They look from outside almost 
equal to ordinary shades of Holland 
linen. They can, of course, readily be 
laundered when soiled. 

Draperies. — Portieres and other dra- 
peries must be selected with due re- 
gard to the size and shape of the room, 
as well as to the color scheme. Heavy, 
thick draperies make a small room 
look close and stuffy. But light, airy 
hangings are equally out of place in. 
a large room. To improve the effect 
of a room that is too narrow and high 
between joints, or a room having too 
high and narrow doors and windows, 
lower the window shades twelve or 
fifteen inches from the top and fill in 
the space with a grUl, a rope network. 




"Lower the Rod." 

a shirring of silk, or similar decora- 
tion. If the doors open outward, or 
if a door is" taken down and hung with 
draperies, lower the rod twelve or 
fifteen inches and fill in above with 
shirred silk or silkoline to harmonize 
with the portieres or draperies. 



Or run a shelf or plate rack across 
the top of the door on a level with 
the top of the window shades; by 
these means the room is made to seem 
lower and larger in proportion to its 
height. 

Or lower the curtain from the pole 
by means of cords to match the dra- 
pery. La<!e over the pole and through 
the hooks on the pins. 

Portieres. — ^In addition to the vari- 
ous grades of draperies on the mar- 
ket, burlap and other suitable farbrics 
may be made up for this purpose at 
much less expense. 

Or brown leather scraps may be 
purchased from bookbinders at a few 
cents a pound, cut in strips about half 
an inch wide, and tied in lots after 
the manner of carpet rags. These 
make very cheap and effective dra- 
peries for libraries and living rooms. 

Choose preferably materials that will 
not catch and hold dust more than is 
necessary, and avoid flounces, fringes, 
and tassels coarse enough to allow 
dust to accumulate in them. It is a 
good plan in summer to take down 
heavy draperies, shake and clean them, 
and pack them away until fall in a 
moth-proof box or chest. They will 
last longer, and the house wiU be much 
cleaner, more airy, and comfortable 
without them. 

Or, if desired, replace the winter 
draperies with cheap draperies of dark 
green or other color of burlap. Lower 
the pole a foot or more from the cas- 
ing to let the air pass through, and 
let them swing clear of the floor. 

Curtain Bings. — Rub the curtain 
poles occasionally with a rag dipped 
in kerosene oil to make the rings slip 
easily. 

To Clean Draperies. — Draperies and 
tapestries hung upon the walls may 
be cleaned by pouring gasoline into a 
shallow pan, and brushing them with 
this by means of a soft brush or whisk 
broom. 

MISCELLANEOUS OBJECTS 

Screens. — Have a carpenter nnJl to- 
gether strips of pine or other cheap 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



49 



well-seasoned wood in any desired 
shape or size and in one or more pan- 
els. Hinge these together and have 
straight bottom supports with braces 
to prevent the screen overturning. 
Cover this with burlap, grass cloth, 
leather, or any suitable fabric and em- 




"Such Screens Are Inexpensive. 



broider or otherwise decorate as de- 
sired. Such screens are inexpensive, 
artistic, and useful to hide corners, 
openings to doors — as a kitchen door 
— ^and also to prevent draughts and to 
admit of opening windows for ven- 
tilation. 

Footstools. — Save the ends of car- 
pets left in evening up the design, also 
remnants of materials used for dra- 
peries, screens, and the like, to cover 
footstools. Make a lining of cotton 
cloth of the desired shape, to be filled 
with excelsior or similar material and 
cover with any desired fabric. 

Or take a piece of plank of any 
preferred size two or three inches in 
thickness. Pad it with cotton batting 
and cover with suitable material. 
Button down with brass tacks. Screw 
underneath heavy cast-iron clothes 
hooks as feet. 

Or make a footstool of empty tin 
cans such as tomato cans. Six cans 
will make a three-cornered footstool, 
or seven a round one. Cover each 
sejjarately with cloth, turning the rag- 
ged tin edges down; stitch them to- 



gether and cover with any suitable 
material. 

Or make heavy cushions similar to 
sofa cushions, and cover with heavy 
material, to take the place of foot- 
stools. 

rilling for Fancy Pillows. — Among 
the materials recommended for filling 
sofa pillows, porch cushions, and floor 
cushions, in addition to feathers, are 
excelsior, grass clippings, hay or 
straw, paper, cotton batting, dried 
tea leaves, milkweed fluff, hops, dry 
rose leaves, and lavender. Pine, hem- 
lock, or balsam needles may also be 
used, and are recommended for their 
delicate odor. 

Feather pillows are, of course, the 
best. To save chicken feathers for 
pillows, take the feathers immediate- 
ly after dressing the fowls, cover them 
with hot suds, and wash thoroughly. 
Put them in a large pan and let stand 
on the stove or in a slow oven until 
thoroughly dried. Let the heat be as 
strong as possible without scorching. 
Put them in a cloth bag and set in a 
dry place until enough have accumu- 
lated for a pillow. They will thus 
keep fluffy, and after being aired will 
be fresh and clean and without odor. 

Or take cotton batting and pick 
the cotton up very fine and fluffy. 
Place it in the oven in a pan and bake 
it with a slow fire. Have the heat as 
strong as possible without scorching 
the cotton and bake until thoroughly 
dry. If the cotton is picked up very 
fine and thoroughly baked it will not 
grow hard or mat up in pillows. Make 
an inner pillow to contain the cotton, 
and after it is stuffed go over it by 
means of a brush with a varnish of 
melted wax. This will make the pil- 
low impervious to moisture, and the 
cotton will always continue soft and 
downy. 

Or gather milkweed pods when 
nearly ripe. Store in a dry place un- 
til they burst open. Carefully sepa- 
rate the down from the seeds in the 
center, put them in a tight muslin bag 
rather than ticking. This material is 
equal to down. 

Or carefully rake the grass clip- 



50 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



pings from the lawn, raking lightly 
so as not to get dead grass or leaves. 
Cure these in loose beds, sunning for 
several days and turning frequently. 
Store in sacks in a dry place, and be- 
fore using dry thoroughly at the fire. 
Put them in the pillows while hot. 
Pillows thus made are light and soft, 
and have a delightful fragrance. 

Or wash clean old pieces of woolen 
ingrain carpet. Ravel it up and use 
the ravelings for filling cushions. 

Or take newspaper or any paper 
from the wastebasket, tear it into 
strips a few inches long and half an 
inch wide and curl these over a 
blimt edge, the same as in curling 
feathers. 

Or save tea leaves, dry thoroughly 
in the oven, and fiU the pillow with 
these. 

Or mix the tea leaves with other 
substances. 

Or mix in cedar sprays, rose leaves, 
lavender, and the like. 

To Hake Pillows. — Make sofa pU- 
lows large and fill them full enough so 
that they will be comfortable. Cover 
with silk, linen, or other soft fabric 
that will be comfortable, as well as 
artistic. If rough materials or em- 
broidery are used for decoration, have 
one side of the pillow covered with 
soft material for use. 

Have an inner pillow of cotton or 
other cheap material, and do not sew 
the cover to this, but leave an opening 
at one end. Sew an under facing 
along each of its two edges, and blind 
stitch the lower ends of the facings. 
Along the upper edge of one facing 
sew small buttons, and on the corre- 
sponding inside edge make button- 
holes. Thus the pillow can be removed 
when the cover requires cleaning. 

Denim, chambray, linen, crash, per- 
cale, and many other materials make 
inexpensive washable porch or sofa 
pillows. 

Or the wrappings that come about 
bolts of matting, and that can usually 
be obtained from dealers for a small 
sum or gratis, make inexpensive pil- 
lows that are very durable. Baste the 
edges together and bind with any 



strong cloth about two inches wide, 
and stitch all around on the machine. 

Or take ordinary burlap sacks such 
as hold potatoes, sugar, etc. Wash 
thoroughly and dye any desired color. 
One side of these may be covered with 
oilcloth for outdoor use. 

Pillow Ticks. — Make ticks of heavy 
sheeting rather than ordinary pillow 
ticking, and after making up the tick, 
turn it inside out and go over the in- 
side with a hot flatiron plentifully 
rubbed with beeswax. Continue until 
the inside of the pillow is covered 
with a coating of wax. This makes 
the pillow waterproof and prevents 
feathers or other material used in 
stufBng the pillow from working 
through. 

Chair Cushions. — Cover cushions for 
wicker chairs or Morris chairs with 
velveteen. This is a cotton fabric 
(hence not liable to the attacks of 
moths), and only requires brushing to 
keep it in order. A linen cover for 
the top of a Morris chair fastened 
with tapes helps to keep the cushion 
clean and can easUy be removed when 
soiled. 

Pillow Covers. — Make large, fancy 
pillow covers (square in shape) of any 




" To Make a Cheap Umbrella Stand." 

suitable heavy materied, as tapestry, 
denim, rep, and the like. Leave one 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



51 



end open, turning in a rather wide 
hem, and place strong hooks and eyes 
or glove fasteners inside the hem to 
admit of readily opening and closing 
the aperture. Into these covers ordi- 
nary pillows that are used at night 
on folding beds or couches can be 
crowded each morning, and thus can 
be made to do double duty. This de- 
vice will be found very convenient for 
persons who are obliged to use their 
living rooms as sleeping apartments. 
But ordinary pillows can thus for 
economy's sake be utilized as fancy 
pillows in any circumstances. 

TJmbreUa Stand. — To make a cheap 
imibrella stand, take two or three 
smooth sugar-barrel hoops, cut out a 
piece to make them small enough, 
bring the ends together, and nail them 
to lathes about three feet long.^ Place 
the lathes several inches apart, nailing 
on the hoop at the top, center, and 
bottom. Use a tin pan at the bottom, 
smooth the whole with sandpaper, and 
paint or stain to any desired color. 

LIVINO BOOMS 

The old custom of setting apart a 
"best room" or parlor to be used only 
on special occasions, as for weddings, 
fimerals, or the entertainment of com- 
pany, is happily passing away. Only 
very wealthy people now have draw- 
ing-rooms reserved for state occasions. 
The present tendency is to call all the 
lower rooms of the house " living 
rooms," and to have all the members 
of the family use them freely. A room 
set apart from ordinary use, and hence 
shut up much of the time from sun 
and air, is not good for the physical 
or moral health of the household. 
Hygiene demands that sun and air 
should be admitted freely to all parts 
of the house. The furnishings them- 
selves, if good care is given them, will 
be improved rather than injured by 
ordinary wear, and guests will receive 
a far pleasanter impression from the 
easy and graceful atmosphere impart- 
ed to a room by daily use, than from 
the stiff and formal restraints imposed 
by the old-fashioned parlor. A hostess 
who takes her friends into a sitting 



room and tells them frankly that she 
prefers to "live in her own parlor" 
will have more friends than critics. 
The arrangement is plainly for the 
good of the family, and all who visit 
such a home will be the better for 
having been taken into the wholesome 
family life. 

When possible, it is pleasant and 
convenient to have two living rooms 




" Two Living Rooms Thrown Together. " 

thrown together by folding or sliding 
doors, with a grill and portieres or 
other suitable draperies across the 
opening. The effect of many country 
homes could be greatly improved by 
cutting an arch or square opening 
about the width and height of two or- 
dinary doors placed side by side or 
slightly wider, so as to throw two liv- 
ing rooms into one. Suitable folding 
or sliding doors, while desirable, are 
not necessary, as the opening can be 
closed by means of heavy hangings 
sliding on a rod. One of these rooms 
may, if desired, be furnished with 
more care and used less frequently 
than the other. But both should be 
regarded as living rooms in the full 
sense of the word. 



52 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



" Front Boom." — Large houses and 
ample means will, of course, suggest 
other living rooms, as the library, mu- 
sic room, a special sewing room, and 
the like. But these are neither neces- 
sary nor possible in ordinary house- 
holds, and the " front room " may be 
made not only more habitable but also 
more attractive to callers and guests 
by the presence of a piano or other 
musical instrument, and by low book- 
cases built along the walls, three or 
four shelves high, to hold the family 
collection of books, and stained or 
painted to match the woodwork. The 
top of these bookcases may be finished 
by a shelf about breast high, or slight- 
ly lower, on which plaster-of-Paris 
casts, vases, or flowers and other ap- 
propriate objects may be displayed. 
A " front room " having the walls 
hung with suitable cloth or paper in 
solid colors, or two-toned shades of 
brown or green, with shades of green 
or tan, and hangings to match the wall 
coverings; a hard-wood floor waxed 
and oiled, or floor stained or painted 
in imitation of hard wood, or a solid- 
color floor covering of denim or in- 
grain filler, with rugs of Oriental pat- 
terns and appropriate furniture, will 
have a distinctly modern and artistic 
atmosphere. 

Couch. — Couches and sofas having a 
raised headpiece or arms at either end 
are giving place to plain couches, after 
the fashion of the Oriental divan, 
without head or arms, and covered by 
appropriate couch covers. An ordi- 
nary folding canvas cot bed and a 
common cotton top excelsior or hair 
mattress thick enough to prevent sag- 
ging in the middle is really superior 
to a sofa or davenport costing much 
more money. Imitation Bagdad or 
other suitable couch covers in cotton 
fabrics are inexpensive, and a row of 
fancy pillows can be readily made of 
washable material at slight expense. 
Thus the entire couch and furnishing 
may be had at the cost of but a few 
dollars. 

On the other hand, by purchasing 
an iron or steel couch with wire-spring 
top and hair mattress, and adding a 



real Bagdad or other Oriental couch 
cover and pillows to correspond, a 
couch may be had that will be in 




"Plain Couch . . . without 
Head or Arms." 

keeping with the most luxurious sur- 
roundings. 

To Hake a Davenport. — ^To utilize 
an old-fashioned heavy bedstead of 
valuable hard wood, as mahogany, oak, 
cherry, or walnut, that has been re- 
placed by an iron or brass bed, lower 
the headboard by sawing off the legs, 
and taking out the panels. Lower the 
footboard in the same way. Saw it in 
two and use it for arms. Use one rail 
for the front part below the seat. Use 
the other rail and any removable pan- 
els from the headboard to furnish the 
remainder of the siding. Even the rail 
brackets may be used to furnish the 
front at the lower edge of the rail. 
Have an upholsterer prepare a suit- 
able top cushion of cloth or leather to 
match the wood. Make the seat of 
any cheap wood, as it will be covered 
by the cushion. The seat may be 
hinged, if desired, and thus provide 
underneath a receptacle for any de- 
sired purpose. Anyone handy with 
tools can do this work, or a local cab- 
inet maker can be employed at slight 
expense. 

Or, to utilize an old-fashioned post 
bedstead, saw off the posts and make 
them into pedestals for lawn seats, 
chairs, taborets, tables, and similar 
articles. 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



53 



Center Table. — Have a low center 
table, with a reading lamp or a hang- 
ing lamp suspended over it, drawn out 
from the wall, and covered with books 
and periodicals, so that all the mem- 
bers of the family can gather about 
it. Cover this with a suitable cloth to 
harmonize with the color scheme of 
the room. The opportunity thus sug- 
gested of drawing up a number of 
chairs invites just the sort of infor- 
mal social life that is so much needed 
in every community, and that cements 
the family bond as weU as strengthens 
the ties of neighborllness. 



work are graceful, comfortable, and 
satisfactory. Of course, mahogany and 




"Have a Low Center Table." 



Tea Table. — Have, if possible, in one 
corner of the room a small, low table 
with an alcohol lamp and suitable tea 
things for making a cup of tea with- 
out going for it to the kitchen. This 
simple expression of hospitality gives 
a note of good cheer that is much 
needed in modern social life. There 
need be no formality suggested by a 
cup of tea offered to a caUer even in 
the most quiet neighborhoods, and 
having all of the needful articles at 
hand helps to give the serving of tea 
an air of grace and naturalness. 

Chairs. — Select chairs as other fur- 
niture for simplicity and durability, 
and avoid complicated affairs such as 
the patent rockers, carved or stamped 
furniture, and all elaborate designs 
and decorations. The lines of the 
Morris chair suggest ease and comfort, 
and they are to be strongly recom- 
mended. Chairs of willow and wicker 




" The Lines of the Morris Chair. 



other hard woods will be selected by 
tliose who can afford them. As to 
design, the Colonial models and the 
Craftsman and Mission styles of furni- 
ture are among the most satisfactory. 

Taboret. — The low stand or taboret 
holding a graceful fern or other potted 
plant in a suitable jardiniere adds an 
agreeable touch of grace and color to 
the living room. 

Husic. — The modern invention of 
the mechanical piano player has un- 
locked many a dusty piano and opened 
the whole world of music to thousands 
of homes. Heretofore the cost of a 
musical education has restricted the 
natural love of music in most families 
to but a few simple hymns and times 
that almost anyone could play. Hence 
the piano need no longer be regarded 
as necessarily confined to homes where 
some member of the family has a pro- 
nounced musical talent. Certainly 
nothing signifies more, with the pos- 
sible exception of a collection of good 
books, than a musical instrimient in 
the family living room. 

Care of Fiano. — To keep the piano 
or organ in good condition, arrange to 
have the atmosphere of the room dry, 
but not too dry, and at a moderate 
and even temperature. If the atmos- 
phere is damp, there is a tendency for 
the wires to rust and the keys to stick. 
A dry heat without any moisture in 
the air will tend to check the varnish 
and also to injure the adjustment of 
a musical instrument. Hence, if rooms 
are heated by hot air, hang a small 
galvanized iron pail containing water 



54 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



from the under side of the register, 
so that the heated draught in coming 
up will bring a small amount of mois- 
ture with it. 

Or, if gas or coal stoves are used for 
heating, place a suitable vessel of wa- 
ter on the top of the stove. The slight 
resulting moisture will be beneficial to 
aU the furniture, although the piano 
will perhaps suffer most from the lack 
of it. The slight humidity is also good 
for the health of the family. 

Do not stand the piano close against 
an outer wall, which may be damp or 
chilled from frost in winter, and if pos- 
sible keep it out of a direct draught. 
If an upright piano, tack a dust cover 
of denim or other suitable material 
across the back to exclude dust, leav- 
ing flaps wide enough to be thrown 
over the piano when sweeping. These 
can hang down behind the piano when 
not in use. Take care that no small 
articles laid on the keys find their way 
inside of the instrument. Have a mu- 
sic cabinet, so as to keep the top of 
the instrument free from books and 
sheet music. Keep the piano closed 
when not in use, and have it tuned 
three or four times a year, or oftener, 
if necessary. If it is not kept up to 
pitch it wUl not stay in tune when 
required. An hour or two of practice 
on a piano each day will keep it in the 
best condition. But, if possible, every 
key on the keyboard should be struck 
at least once daily. 

Care of Sheet Music. — Have a music 
cabinet, homemade if necessary, with 
shelves large enough for a piece of 
sheet music, and close enough together 
to admit of keeping the pieces classi- 
fied. Bind two or more pieces of mu- 
sic of the same general kind together 
as desired by means of brass brads 
sold by stationers. The use of these 
is very simple. Lay the sheets one 
upon the other in the order desired, 
cut a slot top, bottom, and middle a 
half inch from the back edge with a 
penknife, insert the brad and turn 
down the edges. 

Or, to bind music together, take a 
piece of strong manila or other tough 
paper two inches or more in width. 



and as long as the music is high. Fold 
this lengthwise in the middle and 
paste one side to one piece of music, 
the other to another. Run over this 
with a hot flatiron to insure its dry- 
ing quickly and evenly without virin- 
kles. If the sheets tear apart, insert 
a similar strip between the torn sheets, 
and when all have been reenforced in 
this way take a similar strip of tough 
paper or muslin wide enough to go 
round the back of the whole collection 
and lap over an inch or more on either 
side. Slush the back well with paste 
or glue, lay on this strip, rub down 
tightly, and let dry imder a weight. 
A manila folder or cover the same 
size as the music itself may be " drawn 
on" in a, similar way to correspond 
to the cover of a bound book. 

Pictures — Good and Bad Taste. — A 
good illustration of what to avoid is 
foimd in the family photographs en- 
larged by the carbon or imitation pas- 




" Mitch Less Seen than Formerly." 

tel process, and surrounded by massive 
frames at the recommendation of en- 
terprising manufacturers, whose prof- 
its are in proportion to the size of 
the frame and the elaborateness of the 
molding. Only the eloquence of the 
venders could give such pictures even 
a temporary popularity, but they are 
seen everywhere. Family photographs 
should be, as a rule, confined to sleep- 
ing apartments rather than displayed 
in living rooms, and much better re- 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



55 



productions can be had in smaller sizes 
than upon a large scale. Carbon and 
other reproductions have little deco- 
rative value, and even when enlarged 
should be framed as simply and un- 
obtrusively as possible. This work can 
usually be done at a lower rate and 
of a better quality by a local photog- 
rapher. 'The difference in expense will 
usually furnish the living room with 
a good photographic reproduction of 
one of the masterpieces of the world, 
that will be equally interesting to 
strangers and instructive to the in- 
mates of the home. Happily, public 
taste is rapidly improving in these 
matters. Heavy and elaborate mold- 
ings with intricate designs made of 
putty and covered with gilt paint, or 
oak molding stamped in imitation of 
hand carving, and the like monstrosi- 
ties are much less seen than formerly. 
The object of picture molding is, of 
course, twofold — to protect and to de- 
fine the picture; hence the frame itself 
should be unobtrusive and should in 
no way attract the eye to itself. If 
the wall coverings are in solid colors 
or quiet two-toned effects, and the 
picture frames are simple and appro- 
priate, the picture itself stands out 
in all of its natural beauty. Thus the 
object is attained for which the pic- 
ture was hung. A few pictures of 
reasonable size and real merit, simply 
but appropriately framed, give a much 
more artistic effect than does a wall 
crowded with a large number of sub- 
jects among which those that are in- 
ferior must necessarily suffer by con- 
trast. 

Pictures to Choose. — Select for liv- 
ing rooms landscapes, reproductions 
of still life, ideal heads and faces, and 
reproductions of masterpieces por- 
traying scenes or subjects that might 
properly be the subject of conversa- 
tion in the social circle. 

For the music room, photographs of 
eminent composers and other musi- 
cians, or reproductions of paintings 
suggested by the use of the room, are 
appropriate. 

For the library, photographs of lit- 
erary and other public men, and re- 



productions of public buildings of all 
ages and in aU parts of the world, are 
in order. 

Reserve for the privacy of sleeping 
apartments photographs of friends or 
relatives of the family, children, and 
all other pictures that, however inter- 
esting they may be to the owner, can 





" The Frame Should Be Unobtrusive." 

be of no general concern to those who 
are not members of the family. 

To Hang Pictures. — Do not make 
the common mistake of hanging pic- 
tures above the line of sight, so as to 
make it necessary to strain the eyes 
in looking up at them. Pictures should 
not, as a rule, hang more than five 
and one half feet from the floor — 
about on a level with the eyes of a 
person of average height when stand- 
ing. But, of course, the different pic- 
tures, for the sake of variety, are 
hung slightly above or below this line, 
according to their size and other cir- 
cumstances, and not at a uniform 
level. Remember that in looking at 
a picture the eye falls, not at the ex- 
act center, but at a point about in- 
termediate between the center and 
the top of the picture, or at about 
one third of its depth from the top. 
Hence, if a picture is hung so that 
the line of sight of a person of aver- 
age height when standing falls on 
this point, it is displayed to the best 
advantage. 



56 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Do not hang a picture in direct 
light, as exactly opposite a sunny 
window. When possible, a picture 
should be located with reference to 
windows and other openings so that 
it will be lighted as the artist intend- 
ed; that is, the shadows in the picture 
should appear to be cast by the light 
that falls upon it. 

Suspend large and heavy pictures 
from a picture molding which may be 
as near to the ceiling as possible to 




"On a Level with the Eyes. 

give a low room the effect of greater 
height, or lower it from the ceiling to 
give a. high room a broader eflFect. 
Use as little picture wire as may be. 
Two wires and hooks, one near either 
end of a large picture, rather than a 
single hook with wire running from it 
diagonally in either direction, is to 
be preferred. Suspend small pictures 
preferably from small hooks or tacks 
driven into the wall behind the pic- 
ture itself, and by means of rings or 
screw eyes in the back of the frame, 
all of which will be concealed from 
sight when the picture is hung. That 
is, have as little picture wire visible 
as possible. Ordinary woven picture 
wire is now inexpensive and can be 



used again and again. It not only 
looks better but Is safer than cord. 
Ordinary " silver " wire is suitable for 
most purposes. It can be touched up 
with a little bronze paint to hang gilt 
frames, or when it becomes tarnished. 
Picture hooks of brass may be painted 
white or otherwise, to conform to the 
color of the picture molding and thus 
be less conspicuous. 

In order to get the most effective 
arrangement, when in doubt where to 
hang pictures, do the experimental 
grouping on the floor. Thus the pic- 
tures may be shifted about until the 
most tasteful way is found. This 
saves many trips up and down the 
stepladder. When taking down pic- 
tures from the molding, make a dot 
with a pencil point on the wall back 
of the molding, where it will not show, 
exactly where the hook was hung, or 
leave the hook in place so that the pic- 
ture when cleaned may be returned to 
its place without the necessity of 
measuring again. But if the wall cov- 
erings are of material that shows the 
effect of fading, as do most solid col- 
ors, especially greens and browns in 
ingrain papers, burlap, and the like, 
change the position of the pictures 
occasionally. Otherwise the wall cov- 
ering behind the picture will not fade, 
and when for any reason a change 
becomes necessary the outlines will be 
unsightly. 

Passepartout. — Buy a piece of glass 
cut to the desired size at a picture 
shop. Common window glass will an- 
swer. Or buy old photographic nega- 
tives from a photographer, and have 
them cut to the right size if necessary 
by a glazier. Soak these in strong 
potash lye to remove the films, and 
rinse in clear water. The glass may 
be of the same size as the picture, or 
the picture maj' be mounted on a suit- 
able mat and backed with a piece of 
cardboard in which small rings or 
pieces of wire have been inserted to 
hang it up by. Bind the whole around 
the edges with passepartout binding, 
which may be had in any desired color 
of a dealer in photographic supplies. 
Thus prints and photographs may be 



HOUSE FUENISHING AND DECORATING 



57 



neatly and artistically framed for next 
tu nothing and form suitable orna- 
ments for any home. 

Mats for Pictures. — Use common in- 
grain or moire wall papers of various 
colors in place of mats or picture 
mounts. It is cheaper and equally 
effective. Mount the pictures on the 
mats as photographs are mounted, if 
desired, or measure the proper size for 
a cut-out with pencil and paper on 
the back of the mat and cut along the 
edges with the point of a very sharp 
penknife or a razor. 

magazine Covers. — The cover de- 
signs and full-page illustrations of 
several of the leading monthly and 
other periodicals are reproductions of 
the best works of prominent artists 
and illustrators. These are freely 
used in many homes to decorate the 
walls of libraries, dens, and sometimes 
living rooms, either framed or bound in 
passepartout binding or merely neatly 
trimmed with a straightedge, and at- 
tached to the wall by means of brass- 
headed tacks or thiunb tacks. A series 
of cover designs of one or more peri- 
odicals makes a very interesting and 
attractive frieze for the den or library. 

To Transfer Pictures. — To transfer 
to glass any sort of pictures upon 
paper or cardboard, cut the glass to 
the desired size, wash it clean with 
soap and water, rinse dry and go over 
the surface with a cloth moistened in 
alcohol. Apply one or two coats of 
colorless copal or other hard spirit 
varnishes, and let dry where no dust 
can fall upon it. Soak the print or 
photograph in water until it is thor- 
oughly saturated, or, in the case of a 
photograph, until it can be detached 
from the mount. It will not be in- 
jured by water if care is taken when 
it is wet not to tear it. Let stand in 
water over night if necessary. AVhen 
fully saturated lay the face of the 
print on a sheet of blotting paper, give 
the glass a fresh coat of varnish, and 
when the varnish becomes tacky, but 
before it dries, put the engraving in 
place, face downward, on the var- 
nished side of the glass. Rub it down 
by means of a straightedged piece of 



soft rubber called a " squeegee," or 
the blunt edge of an ivory paper cut- 
ter, Thus get every bubble of air out 
from between the print and the glass. 
By means of a. soft piece of India 
rubber rub up and remove the moist 
paper from the back pf the print until 
it becomes transparent and as thin as 
may be without injuring the image. 
Varnish the back and let it dry. Pic- 
tures thus transferred are especially 
convenient for binding with passe- 
partout tape, as there is less weight 
and thickness to be sustained. 

Pictures — To Transfer to Plaster. — 
To transfer a print of any sort from 
paper or cardboard to a plaster-of- 
Paris mold or cast, or rather to mount 
the print on a suitable disk of plaster 
of Paris, first obtain a dish or tray of 
suitable size and shape, of tin, glass, 
Japan ware, or any hard substance 
having a smooth surface. Moisten the 
edges of the print with water, and if 
it is mounted on thick paper or card- 
board bevel the edge of the mount 
from the back by rubbing with a piece 
of sandpaper or sheering it by means 
of a razor or other sharp tool so that 
the edge of the print will be thin. But 
take care not to give a ragged edge to 
the print itself. Obtain plaster of 
Paris from a paint shop and mix it 
with cold water to the consistency of 
cream. Dip the picture in cold water, 
lay it face down in the bottom of the 
tray, and squeegee it down smooth to 
force out bubbles of air from between 
the print and the glass. Pour the 
plaster over it to a depth of half an 
inch or less, and before the plaster sets 
insert into the back hooks or passe- 
partout hangers by means of which to 
suspend rt. Just before the plaster 
hardens loosen it slightly about the 
edges with a sharp knife, and when it 
has fully set it will slip out of the 
mold, having a smooth surface to con- 
form to the inside of the tray, and 
showing the design as if the lines were 
drawn and the colors printed upon the 
cast. Trays may be round, square, or 
oblong, to suit the designs, and maga- 
zine covers or full-page colored repro- 
ductions from periodicals or any other 



58 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



pictures may be transferred or mount- 
ed by this process. 

SLEEPING BOOMS 

The objects and nature of sleep 
should be understood as a basis for 
the intelligent furnishing and care of 
the bed and bedroom. Perhaps no 
other subject in connection with the 
household is more important or less 
understood. Where more than one 
person occupies a sleeping room each 
individual should have a separate bed, 
even if the requirements of space or 
other conditions make it necessary for 
two or more beds to stand side by 
side. It is especially important that 
children, after a very early age, should 
have separate cradles or cribs pro- 
vided for them and be taught to oc- 
cupy them. The reason for this cus- 
tom is that individuals vary greatly 
in the amount of heat required to keep 
the body in a normal condition during 
sleep. Children require less covering 
than grown persons, and aged persons 
require much more covering than those 
in middle life. Separate beds admit 
of each individual adjusting the cov- 
ering to his own requirements. Again, 
while the bodily sensations are dor- 
mant during sleep, they are not ab- 
sent, or else a person could not be 
awakened. The body is still sensitive 
to outer impressions. Hence the mo- 
tions of another sleeper or the changes 
in temperature produced by the addi- 
tion or removal of coverings to ac- 
commodate a bedfellow may awaken a 
sleeper who by his restless motions 
will keep his companion awake, and no 
sound sleep may be enjoyed by either 
person. Fortunately, the invention of 
cast-iron and other cheap metallic bed- 
steads that may be obtained in half 
and three-quarter sizes makes it pos- 
sible for many families to afford sepa- 
rate beds, a luxury which would for- 
merly have been denied them. 

The introduction of iron and brass 
bedsteads in many homes on sanitary 
and hygienic grounds, and the con- 
sequent discarding of old-fashioned 
wooden bedsteads that are heavy, dif- 



ficult to clean, and that by collecting 
dust and furnishing harboring places 
for vermin are constantly contribut- 
ing to the labor of the housekeeper, 
gives an opportunity to Introduce this 




" The Introduction of Iron and Brass Beds." 

cleanly, healthful, and agreeable cus- 
tom. Moreover, single or half beds can 
be readily moved from one room to 
another and from place to place, ^hey 
are easier to open, air, and spread, the 
bed coverings (which should be made 
specially for them) are easier to han- 
dle in the laundry, and their use, in 
short, is advisable from every stand- 
point. 

Ventilation of Bedrooms. — The ef- 
fect of entire lack of ventilation is 
illustrated by the celebrated case of 
the " Black Hole of Calcutta." About 
150 Europeans taken at the capture of 
Fort Williams in Calcutta in 1756 
were confined in a dungeon about 
twenty feet square, having two small 
windows. The following morning only 
twenty-three remained alive. In a 
similar case, on the steamer London- 
derry, 150 passengers were confined in 
a small cabin for a number of hours. 
Of these, seventy died from constant- 
ly rebreathing the air contaminated 
in the lungs and by various exhala- 
tions of the human body. In breath- 
ing (and also in the combustion of 
fuel, as wood or coal, or of oil or gas 
for illumination), a part of the oxy- 
gen of the air which is necessary for 
human life is converted into carbonic- 
acid gas. The atmosphere consists of 
about 78 per cent of nitrogen, 20.96 
per cent of oxygen, 1 per cent of 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



argon, and .04 per cent of carbonic- 
acid gas mixed together. Each breath 
converts about one fourth of the 
available oxygen in the air Into car- 
bonic-acid gas; hence in an air-tight 
space death from suffocation would 
very quickly ensue. 

Ordinary dwellings are, of course, 
by no means air-tight, and are par- 
tially ventilated through the narrow 
openings about window frames, by 
the occasional opening of doors, and 
through various cracks and crevices. 
But these sources are not sufficient to 
supply the volume of pure air required 
for human breathing. Rooms occu- 
pied by a. number of persons are al- 
most invariably so close that a great 
deal of air is necessarily breathed 
again and again. The results upon 
bodily health are in their nature the 
same as those which produce death by 
suffocation. Only the exhaustion is 
more gradual and extends over a lon- 
ger period of time. 

The effects of insufficient ventilation 
are perhaps less during our waking 
hours than during sleep. Most per- 
sons move about a good deal during 
the day and are in and out of doors. 
Moreover, the lungs are active, and if 
the air is impure, they may make up 
the deficiency by more frequent respi- 
ration. When a person is conscious, 
the discomfort of close air, resulting 
in headaches and a sense of incipient 
suffocation, affords warning that it is 
time to change the air in the room or 
take a walk outside. But a sleeper is 
usually unconscious of any warning 
sensations. The respiration is slower, 
and there is nothing to check the evil 
effects of breathing again and again 
the air that has been robbed of its 
oxygen. The result is the impairment 
of all the vital processes that normally 
make up during sleep for the daily 
wastes of the body. Hence sleeping 
in poorly ventilated rooms leads im- 
mediately to headaches, a sense of 
having rested badly, with exhaustion 
and fatigue, and eventually to such 
wasting diseases as consumption, ca- 
tarrh, and other affections of the head, 
throat, and lungs. 



The Presh-air Cure. — It is now well 
known that consumption, the most 
wasting and fatal of all human dis- 
eases, can be cured in many cases by 
simply breathing pure air out of doors, 
both day and night. Modern sani- 
tariums have sleeping porches of can- 
vas or tents in which patients sleep 
out of doors, even in cold climates in 
winter, the body being protected by 
suitable covering. The contrast be- 
tween slow suffocation from lack of 
ventilation and the cure of consump- 
tion by breathing pure air both day 
and night should impress upon every- 
one the absolute necessity of thor- 
ough ventilation, especially in sleeping 
apartments. 

When to Ventilate. — It is a sure 
indication that, when the air in a room 
seems close and has a musty odor to 
a person coming in from outdoors, it 
is so impure as to be injurious to 
health. If, after stepping into the 
open air in the morning and taking a 
few deep breaths, one returns to a 
sleeping room and finds the air insuf- 
ferably close, the room has not been 
sufficiently ventilated during the night, 
and evil consequences are sure to 
follow. 

Or place a shallow glass dish con- 
taining lime water in a room to de- 
termine the presence of carbonic-acid 
gas. If there is much of this sub- 
stance present the water will quickly 
become cloudy. 

Or, to test for marsh gas, sewer gas, 
and the like containing sulphureted 
hydrogen, expose to the air moist car- 
bonate of lead, which will turn black 
if this substance is present. 

Night Air. — There is a. superstition 
prevalent in many parts of the country 
that night air is injurious. There may 
be some ground for this belief where 
the Anopheles mosquito is abroad in 
malarial districts, or the vicinity of 
swamps wherever a mist may arise at 
night and spread contamination. But 
in most localities this notion is en- 
tirely groundless and misleading. If 
we do not breathe night air at night, 
pray what shall we breathe? Either it 
is necessary to breathe over and over 



60 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the air that has been in the sleeping 
room all day, or else to admit fresh air 
from outdoors, and whatever the dan- 
ger in breathing night air, it is certain- 
ly less immediate than quick or slow 
suffocation from lack of ventilation. 

To Ventilate Bedrooms. — The prob- 
lem of ventilation is twofold: first, to 
let in the pure air; second, to let out 
that which is impure. There should 
be windows on two sides of the bed- 
room, and also, if possible, a fireplace 
for ventilation. The bed should be 
located so that the air will circulate 
freely around and beneath it without 
a draught. If possible, the door when 
open should screen the bed, or a screen 
should be interposed when necessary 
between the bed and the open door or 
window. 

The simplest means of ventilation is 
to lower the upper sash of a window 
for several inches and raise the lower 
sash either of the same window or of 
one on the opposite side of the room. 
If there is an open fireplace in the 
room, it will remove the impure air 
by creating a draught and causing 
suction. 

Or lower the upper sashes of two 
windows opposite one another. 

Or open the bedroom door and ad- 
mit the fresh air to an adjacent room 
or hall by means of two or more win- 
dows in such a way that a draught 
passing near the bedroom door wiU 
create suction and draw the impure 
air out of it. The direction of these 
air currents may be determined by 
holding a lighted match or candle in 
them. 

Just before retiring open all the 
windows and change the air in the 
room. 

To Prevent Draughts. — To prevent 
a direct current of air crossing the 
bed on raising a window sash, take a 
piece of any firm, tightly woven cloth, 
as duck or light canvas or strong flan- 
nel -goods, the width of the window 
and about eighteen inches deep. Make 
a heading at top and bottom to admit 
sash-curtain rods. Adjust one rod at 
the bottom of the window frame and 
the other about twelve or fourteen 



inches higher up. Thus when tlie sash 
is lifted as high as the upper rod the 
entering current of air will cause the 
cloth to belly out into the room, and 
the current will be turned on both 
sides and driven along the wall. A 
current of air, like a current of water, 




" The Air Will Follow Along the WalV 



has a tendency to stick to any surface 
over which it flows; hence the air will 
follow along the wall, and even to 
some extent around the corners of the 
room, as can be seen by testing with 
the flame of a candle. 

Or either end of this cloth screen 
may be closed by means of a pin or 
buttonhole and button, and the entire 
current turned in the opposite direc- 
tion. Ordinary sash-curtain rods or 
even rollers such as are used for cur- 
tain shades or sticks used for the 
lower part of curtain shades may be 
adj usted permanently for this purpose 
in sleeping rooms. 

Or the patent spring sash-curtain 
rods, that have a spring inside and 
rubber tips at the end to keep them 
adjusted, may be utilized to make one 
or more removable screens. These can 
be adjusted according to conditions 
from time to time on any windows in 
any part of the house. 

Or' stretch a piece of cheese cloth 
over the opening and tack it fast. 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



61 



Or tack cheese cloth on a small re- 
movable frame that will fit into the 
opening. 

Or put a sheet of finely perforated 
metal in place of one of the upper 
panes of glass in one of the windows. 

Or tack a strip of thin wood or stiff 
cardboard eight to twelve inches wide 
across the lower part of the window 
frame, an inch or two from the glass. 
When the sash is raised the current 
striking this obstruction is turned up- 
ward into the air and may be thrown 
entirely over the bed, just as a cur- 
rent of water might be thrown from 
a hose. 

Or place a piece of board in the 
window casing below the bottom of 
the sash. When the window is closed 
down upon this board a space is left 
between the upper and lower sash 
which admits a current of air. 

Or place an ordinary fire screen or 
wooden frame covered with cloth or 
paper between the window and the 
bed, as is often done in hospitals. 

Or make a little curtain of sheeting 
to fit the head of the bed and tie at 
the four corners by means of tape. 

Any of these devices may be used 
to ventilate other than sleeping apart- 
ments. 

Sleeping Porch. — In the vicinity of 
the great sanitariums where sleeping 
out of doors has been proved to be a 
cure for consumption and other dis- 




' The Porch Should be Screened." 
/ 

eases, many persons have formed the 
habit of sleeping thus. Any porch 
somewhat excluded from view and in 
a sheltered location can be utilized. 
The porch should be screened and pro- 



vided with storm curtains of tent can- 
vas that can be drawn and buttoned 
like the curtains of a carriage. If 
the porch is used during the day a 
bunk or folding bed may be hinged 
to the wall on one side, with legs that 
will let down on the other. When 
folded up this may be concealed by a 
waterproof curtain. Or one of the so- 
called hammock beds may be suspend- 
ed by hooks from the ceiling. 

If suitable blankets are provided it is 
possible to sleep out of doors the year 
roxmd in most parts of the United 
States, with the exception of a very 
few nights, and probably no practice 
would be more invigorating, healthful, 
or pleasurable, especially in the sum- 
mer months. 

BedTOOms. — Furnishings and decora- 
tions of bedrooms should conform to 
the object for which the room is in- 
tended. Simplicity should be the key- 
note. Wall coverings in geometrical 
designs or large-figured patterns of 
any sort and all bric-a-brac and use- 
less flounces and decorations should 
be avoided. The fewer objects not 
actually necessary in the room the bet- 
ter. Finish the woodwork in natural 
colors, oiled or stained, and preferably 
with oil paint or varnish. Tint the 
walls or hang them with a solid col- 
ored or double-toned paper, or a sim- 
ple stripe. Hang at the windows light 
muslin or cheese-cloth curtains, either 
white or dyed to conform to the gen- 
eral color scheme. If the floors are 
smooth, oil and wax them, or stain 
or paint them with any of the lac 
paints or varnishes. Floors not smooth 
may be covered with either linoleum 
or matting as preferred. Avoid, as a 
rule, the use of carpets in bedrooms. 
A plain stained or painted wood floor 
with rugs is much easier to keep clean 
and is more sanitary. 

Beds. — Iron or brass beds fitted with 
woven wire or other suitable wire 
springs are to be preferred. The iron 
beds in white enamel harmonize well 
with birch and other light-colored 
woods and enameled furniture; and 
brass beds with mahogany, walnut, 
and other hard woods in darker col- 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ors. The furniture should be of sim- 
ple design, without carving or un- 
necessary decoration. The mattress 
should be of hair or cotton felt, of 
good quality, and made in two parts, 
for convenience in turning and airing. 
The bed clothing should be light and 
warm, consisting of linen or cotton 
sheets, blankets, and a white spread. 

Beds and Bedding. — The ideal bed 
for^health and comfort is of metal, 
either white enameled iron or brass, 
with a box spiral shelf spring or 
woven wire spring having enough spi- 
ral springs through the middle so that 
it will not sag. Iron and brass beds 
are now so cheap that they are being 
rapidly substituted for wooden bed- 
steads in all parts of the country. In 
choosing enamel beds see that the 
brass fittings are of good quality and 
well put on. The brass parts are the 
first to show wear, especially if they 
are loosely adj usted ; and if they come 
off, the loss will spoil the appearance 
of the bed. 

Enameled beds may be renovated 
by going over them with white or 
black enamel paint; to make them 
look like brass use gilt enamel. Any 
of these can be washed with soap and 
water. Thus a metal bed can be easily 
kept in perfect sanitary condition, 
free from dust, dirt, or vermin. Hap- 
pily, the old-fasliioned slat and cord 
bedsteads are rapidly becoming things 
of the past. 

mattresses. — The bed should not be 
softer than is necessary for comfort, 
and the surface should be smooth and 
nearly level. Feather beds are advisa- 
ble for healthy adults only in ex- 
tremely cold weather or cold climates, 
and in unheated rooms. They may be 
used for children or the aged in ordi- 
nary temperatures, but they should 
rather be packed tightly in thin ticks 
than loosely in large masses. Mat- 
tresses with suitable springs and bed 
coverings are to be preferred in most 
cases. The best material for mat- 
tresses is curled hair, although the 
much-advertised modern mattresses of 
felted cotton are also good and cheap- 
er. Mattresses of excelsior and husks 



\vith cotton tops and ticks filled with 
clean hay or straw, or even beach-tree 
and other leaves are stiU used in many 




" The Much Advertised Modem Mattress." 

parts of the country. Any of these 
are hygienic and comfortable, and are 
to be preferred for adults in good 
health to feather beds. 

The best material for pillows Is 
curled hair, but if feathers are used 
the pillows should be tightly packed 
so that they will not allow the head 
to sink into them. The use of thick 
pillows is inadvisable. The pillow 
should be of just about the right 
thickness to support the head in its 
natural position when lying on the 
side, or to allow it to incline slightly 
backward. 

Bed Springs. — The upholstered or 
box springs are the best. Make a 
cover of heavy unbleached drilling 
slightly larger than the springs, or 
cover them with a worn sheet or faded 
quilt. Fasten brass rings in the cor- 
ners of the cover and attach them to 
brass-headed tacks or nails driven into 
the under side of the spring. This 
prevents the cover from slipping, but 
makes it removable for dusting. Or 
with a darning needle and cord tack 
the cover neatly and firmly in place. 
This prevents the springs from stain-* 
ing the mattress with rust. 

Bed Covers. — As the muscles are 
entirely quiescent during sleep the 
body generates much less heat than in 
waking hours. Hence the bedclothes 
should furnish greater warmth than 
the ordinary clothing. On the other 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



63 



hand, the bed should not be warm 
enough to interfere with normal evap- 
oration or overheat the body so as to 
cause undue perspiration. 

Light bed covers of a suitable non- 
conducting material, as wool or eider- 
down, are much better than heavy or 
numerous covers of cotton, as home- 
made quilts and comforters. Wool 
blankets are perhaps the best of all 
bed covers, and nothing else except a 
suitable coverlet for the purpose of 
decoration should be used if blankets 
can be afforded. Linen sheets are 
preferable to cotton for the reason 
that they are more absorbent. Hence 
they take up more readily the per- 
spiration of the body. For the same 
reason they are much cooler in sum- 
mer. They are more durable and it 
will be found a wise economy in the 
long run to purchase sheeting of un- 
bleached linen rather than of cotton 
material. 

Bedspreads. — Net, with lace inser- 
tion and edges, over an inexpensive 
lining of any color to match the other 
furnishings, makes an attractive bed- 
spread. 

Or dimity or dotted muslin may be 
used. 

Or an old pair of lace curtains may 
be utilized by sewing the scalloped 
edges together to form the middle of 
the spread, and lining with any suit- 
able colored fabric. 

Valances. — The use of a valance is 
much less customary than formerly, 
as it is now thought more sanitary to 
allow the sunlight to penetrate to all 
parts of the room and the air to cir- 
culate freely. But if a valance is used, 
it should not be fastened to the frame 
of the bed, but so adjusted as to be 
easily removable for the laundry. 
Hence, to make a valance, cut a sheet 
to the size of the top of the mattress; 
make the valance in four sections, one 
for each side and for the top and bot- 
tom of the bed, and just long enough, 
allowing for the hem, to reach from 
the bottom of the mattress to the 
floor. Baste these sections to the 
edge of the sheet like a ruffle. Do not 
join the top and bottom to the sides. 



but leave the corners open. Try this 
on to see that it fits exactly before 
stitcliing. When completed, spread 
the sheet over the springs, and put the 
mattress on over it, so that the val- 
ance will hang down on all sides like 
a ruffle. Thus the valance always stays 
in place, but can easily be removed 
for washing, and the old sheet to 
which it is attached serves to protect 
the mattress from the springs. Deli- 
cate Swiss or other light washable 
fabrics are more suitable for this pur- 
pose than cretonne or other heavy 
figured material. 

Use of Feather Beds. — Formerly 
feather beds were much-valued lux- 
uries, and the possession of a store 
of them was a matter of family pride. 
Happily, however, they are rapidly 
being replaced by mattresses, which, 
on account of improved methods of 
manufacture and the use of new ma- 
terial, are much better and cheaper 
than they were formerly. Feather 
beds are open to many objections. 
They are difficult to keep clean and 
they conform too closely to the shape 
of the body; hence they heat the body 
and do not admit of proper ventila- 
tion. Their use is always debilitating, 
and can only be justified by extreme 
cold weather, or for infants or very 
aged persons. 

Teathers for Beds and Pillows. — 
The best feathers for this purpose are 
live geese feathers or other feathers 
plucked from the live birds; but 
chicken, goose, or duck feathers may 
be preserved and used for beds or pil- 
lows by putting all the soft feathers 
together in a barrel as they are picked 
from the birds after scalding. Leave 
the barrel open to the sun and rain, 
simply covering it with an old screen 
to prevent the feathers from blowing 
about. 

Or purchase the feathers in quan- 
tity from the nearest poulterer and 
purify them yourself. Thus you can 
obtain plenty of feathers for pillows 
and feather beds at very little expense. 

Feather Pillows. — Feathers are open 
to the same objections when used in 
pillows as in feather beds. By con- 



64 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



forming to the shape of the head they 
prevent ventilation and tend to over- 
heat the scalp. This weakens it and 
may lead to premature baldness or 
other affliction. Curled hair should 
be substituted for feathers whenever 
possible. 

To Pill Peather Pillows. — To trans- 
fer feathers from an old feather bed 
to pillow ticks, or from one pillow 
tick to another, open a small part of 
the seam in the tick containing the 
feathers, draw over it the opening in 
the tick to be filled, and tack it to 
the full tick with basting thread, using 
large stitches. Feathers can then be 
shaken from one tick to the other 
without the white fluff getting about. 
Remove the basting threads and pin 
the openings together until you have 
time to stitch them firmly. This can 
be done in such a way as not to lose 
a single feather. 

To Make Pillow Cases. — Pillow slips 
and bolster cases usually give out first 
at the corners from being hung on 
the line with clothespins and from 
the impact of irons against the sewed 
ends. Hence, by leaving both ends of 
the case open, you can distribute the 
wear over it all and double its life. 
Such cases are also much easier to 
iron. Both ends may be trimmed with 
lace or insertion, and two or three 
buttons and buttonholes may be left 
at each end to button the pillow in. 
Pillows thus trimmed will not need 
pillow shams. 

To Protect Ticks. — To protect mat- 
tresses and pillow cases from becom- 
ing soiled make covers for them of 
unbleached cotton cloth or any suit- 
able washable material, cut the cloth to 
measurements of the mattress and pil- 
lows, and finish one side or end with 
buttons and buttonholes, so that the 
cover can be easily slipped off and 
cleaned when necessary. Or the mat- 
tress protector may be tied on with 
tape. Bed linen often falls short of 
covering the mattress completely while 
in use, hence the extra slip is needed, 
especially to protect from the dust the 
under side of the mattress. These slips 
can be removed and laundered twice a 



year or oftener when housecleaning ; 
the pillow covers may be removed 
oftener if desired. Ticking treated 
in this way will be fresh and clean at 
the end of a dozen years' hard usage, 
when otherwise it would be so worn 
and soiled as to be unfit for use. A 
dozen or two yards of cheap material 
will make cases for all*the ticks in an 
ordinary household. 

Or old sheets, pillow cases, or worn- 
out garments may be utilized for this 
purpose. Cloth flour sacks make ex- 
cellent pillow covers. Of course, the 
usual bed linen will be needed in ad- 
dition to these. 

Mattress Top. — A soft top for a 
husk or excelsior mattress may be 
made of old cotton or woolen blankets 
that have outworn their original use. 
Place between the blankets several 
thicknesses of cotton batting and tie 
the same as for comforters. 

Sheets. — Linen is, of course, the best 
material for sheeting, for comfort, 
appearance, and durability, but cot- 
ton sheeting is more conmionly used, 
because it is less expensive. Buy un- 
bleached linen or cotton for sheets 
and pillow slips, as it is not only less 
expensive, but much more durable and 
can be easily bleached when being 
laundered. 

To Make Sheets. — When making 
sheets, tear off one length, pin the 
first end of this length to the sheet 
and measure off the next. Then sew 
up as you have pinned. Thus the 
threads run the same way and the 
sheets will never pucker in the middle 
when washed. 

Look over sheets before they go 
to the laundry and mend any tears at 
once. Sheets usually wear first and 
split in the middle. When this hap- 
pens tear them down the middle, sew 
together the outer selvage edges to 
make the middle of new sheets, and 
hem the torn sides. This should be 
done as soon as the sheets begin to 
wear thin, without waiting for them 
to tear. It will double the life of the 
sheet. 

Quilts and Comforters. — The mod- 
ern factory system has taken out of 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



65 



the home one by one practically all 
of the domestic arts that occupied so 
large a portion of the time and atten- 
tion of our grandmothers. Their place 
is being taken partly by fancy work 
and partly by the various activities of 
the different kinds of woman's clubs 
and similar forms of associated effort. 

The use of blankets and factory- 
made puffs, that are cheap, light, and 
warm, bids fair to displace in time to 
come the old-fashioned pieced quilt, 
crazy quilt, or comfortable of our 
grandmothers. But the custom of 
piecing and tying quilts still holds its 
own in many localities, partly on the 
score of economy — as a means of util- 
izing old pieces of various fabrics — 
and partly as a pleasant and useful 
occupation for time that would other- 
wise pass heavily. For the guidance 
of those who still find it worth while 
to make homemade quilts and com- 
forters, and as a memorial of one of 
the last of the domestic arts to pass 
away, a few suggestions may be in 
order. 

Sorting Pieces. — Sort the accumu- 
lated pieces that are no longer re- 
quired for patching, putting goods of 
the same general character, as ging- 
hams, woolens, calicoes, silks, and the 
like, in separate lots. Quilts made of 
similar goods are more satisfactory 
than if various kinds of goods are 
mingled together, and may be used 
for different purposes. Silk quilts 
may be used for couches and sofas, 
woolen quilts for the guest chamber, 
gingham and calico quilts for every- 
day wear, and quilts from old stock- 
ings for summer quilts, porches, and 
hammocks. 

To line Quilts. — Quilts may be 
made from blocks cut in various de- 
signs by means of patterns, or made 
crazy fashion, filled with cotton or 
cotton batting or with an old blanket, 
lined with new goods or calico or simi- 
lar material, and quilted or tied. A 
helpful suggestion as to filling and 
lining quilts is to make rather large 
blocks. Fill and line each block sepa- 
rately. Have the blocks (which may 
be made of smaller blocks sewed to- 



gether) two or three feet square. Cut 
lining the same size, put the pieces 
together and sew around three sides 
to make a bag open at one end. Now 
turn the bag right side out, leaving 
the seams inside. Introduce one or 
more thicknesses of cotton batting, tie 
at intervals to keep the cotton in 
place, and when the blocks are com- 
pleted sew them together and cross 
stitch the seam with silk or worsted. 
The advantage of this method is that 
the blocks, being relatively small, may 
be tied without quilting frames. 

Or make a foundation for a quilt or 
comforter by sandwiching cotton bat- 
ting between two thicknesses of cheese 
cloth and basting all together. This 
makes a cheese-cloth comforter or 
pad. Cover this with the patchwork 
quilt and line in the usual manner. 
This method is preferable, as the 
cheese cloth keeps the cotton in place 
with very little quilting or tying. The 
cover will need some fastening, but a 
very few knots will be sufficient ; hence 
the cover may be easily removed and 
washed or replaced. 

Cheap Quilts. — ^Where the greatest 
warmth is desired with the least num- 
ber of quilts and absolute economy is 
necessary a liumber of thicknesses of 
newspapers between two pieces of 
cheese cloth, with or without one or 
more thicknesses of cotton batting, 
will give as much warmth as an addi- 
tional pair of blankets. Baste all to- 
gether and cover with a piece quilt 
and line in the usual manner. 

Or use large sheets of tissue paper. 
But as the quilt is worn the news- 
papers will crumple and cease to 
rattle. 

Or use old blankets for summer 
comforters, cover with silkoline or 
other soft, washable material, and tie. 

To Hake Crazy Quilts. — Use as a 
foundation old flour sacks sewed to- 
gether, old sheets, or any strong, 
waste, washable material. Trim odd- 
sized pieces in any shape, mixing small 
and large together. But use materials 
of the same general quality, as silk, 
woolen, and the like, and either stitch 
them to the foundation by hand or 



66 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



stitch around the edge of each piece 
on the sewing machine. Afterwards 
feather stitch the blocks and squares 
together. Line with any suitable ma- 
terial and tack with cotton wadding 
to the lining. The advantage of this 
method is that it saves time and the 
necessity of using quilting ffames. 

Crazy quilts may be made of old 
calico pieces, pieces of summer dress 
goods or woolen dress goods, silk neck- 
ties, ribbons, or the like, or the tops 
of woolen, silk, or cotton stockings, 
and used for a variety of purposes. 
Baste or pin the pieces on to the doth 
ground before placing them in the 
sewing machine or stitching them by 
hand, and mingle the colors so as to 
get a pleasing effect. Turn the edges 
under to form a hem before stitch- 
ing them to the background, and 
work fancy stitches about the edges 
of each. 

To Protect Quilts. — Bedquilts and 
comforters become worn and soiled 
mainly at the ends, by contact with 
the face and hands when in use, and 
also when the beds are opened, aired, 
and made up. Hence protect the ends 
by saving an extra piece of the lining 
material sufficient to cover the quilt 
for six inches deep on each side of 
the end. Or tack on a piece of calico, 
cheese cloth, or other suitable material 
over each end to a depth of five or six 
inches. Tack this on by hand, or at- 
tach by feather stitching. 

When soiled this protective strip 
may be ripped off, washed, and re- 
placed, and the quilt itself will not 
require washing for a long time. These 
strips do not injure the appearance 
of the quilt when in use, as the lower 
end is tacked under the mattress and 
the upper end covered by the pillows 
or turned back under the top sheet if 
the bed is partly opened. 

In regions where the temperature is 
very variable it is usually better to 
make light quilts and comforters and 
plenty of them, than to have a smaller 
number of relatively heavy quilts. 
From two to four pounds of cotton 
for each quilt may be used, according 
to climate. 



Homemade ftuilting Frames. — To 
make a quilting frame, order from a 
lumber yard or sawmill four strips of 
hard pine 1 inch thick, 3 inches wide, 
and 6i feet long. These should not 
Cost more than twenty-five cents. 
Tack a piece of muslin along the edge 
of each strip. Buy four clamps for 
a dime at a hardware store, or have 
them made by a blacksmith, and you 
have a cheap set of frames that will 
last a lifetime. 

To Tie Quilts. — In summer arrange 
a shady place out of doors to stretch 
the frames. Teach the children how 
to tie the knots and have them assist. 
One of the most regrettable things 
about the passing of the domestic arts 
is the loss of their great educational 
influence in forming habits of indus- 
try in children, and preparing them 
by a sort of domestic apprenticeship 
to take their places in the industrial 
arts and crafts in later life. If the 
quilt has no blocks or other regular 
pattern as a guide in tying the knots, 
a piece of cheese cloth of the same 
size as the quilt may be marked off 
into squares with crayon or by draw- 
ing threads, and holes may be clipped 
with buttonhole scissors where the 
lines intersect. Stretch this over the 
quilt and tie through the holes. 

Or use an old sheet for this pur- 
pose. The cheese cloth or sheet may 
be removed, roUed up, and used again. 
In this way several persons can work 
at the same time, and each will know 
where to tie. 

To Tie a Quilting Knot.— Thread 
the needle with yarn or silkateen 
double. Pull through the quilt as 
usual, leaving an end about one inch 
long. Form a loop of the long end 
over the left forefinger and thumb, 
and through this loop pass the short 
end, drawing the thread up tight at 
the same time with the other hand. 
Repeat this, beginning with fingers on 
the other side of the thread than be- 
fore, thus forming a reverse loop. 
This makes the knot square, which it 
would not be if the second loop was 
begun on the same side of the yarn 
as the first. This will never loosen. 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



67 



and saves drawing the long thread its 
ftill length as in the old way. 

folding Beds. — To prevent a bed of 
this kind from folding prematurely 
when occupied, place a piece of board 
about the thickness of the mattress, 
and the same length, between the mat- 
tress and the side of the bed when the 
bed is open. This board may be of 
good hard wood or painted to match 
the woodwork and polished, and may 
be put in a closet when not in use. 

Infant's Bed. — if you have no room 
for a child's crib or bed in addition to 
other furniture, a Morris chair makes 
a good substitute and can be utilized 
during the day. Lay the back down 
flat with something under it for a 
support, and make it up with blankets 
and pillows. 

Dressing Table. — Any low, plain 
wooden table may be converted into 
a convenient dressing table by cutting 
out a crescent-shaped section in front, 
or screwing to the top a wooden lap- 




" Covered with Dainty Dimity. 



board having a section cut out to ad- 
mit of sitting close to the table. The 
top may be covered with dainty dini- 
ity or muslin with a rulfle or lace 
valance around the edge and a looking 
glass hung above. 

Bureau Scarfs. — Lay over the top 
of the bureau or dressing table a 
shaped piece of white oilcloth to pre- 
vent the polish being injured by acci- 
dental spilling of liquids and scratch- 



ing from pins and the like, and over 
this lay a suitable bureau scarf. To 
make a dainty bureau scarf join three 
medium-sized handkerchiefs v/ith hem- 
stitched borders by inserting between 
them a row of lace insertion and whip- 
ping lace edging to match all around. 
Stitch the whole to a suitable colored 
lining. 

Substitute for a Washstand. — Fas- 
ten by means of cleats a three-cor- 
nered piece of board of suitable size 
in a corner of the room; let fall from 
this to the floor a drapery running on 
a piece of quarter-inch wire or brass 
curtain rod. This makes a cheap and 
convenient substitute for a washstand. 
Cover with oilcloth. 

Wardrobe. — Put up on brackets 
against the wall a shelf fourteen or 
fifteen inches wide and as long as de- 
sired, rounding off the corners; from 
this suspend, by means of quarter-inch 
wire or curtain rods, suitable hangings 
to the floor. Underneath this shelf 
screw suitable hooks and fasten cleats 
to the wall to hold other hooks, the 
whole forming a substitute for a 
clothes closet or wardrobe. An addi- 
tional shelf may be put underneath 
if desired. 

Bathroom. — When possible, cover 
the floor of the bathroom with tile, 
cement, or other washable material, 
but linoleum is a good substitute for 
these. Or use cork carpet, which is 
warm to the feet and is washable and 
desirable, although it spot? easily. 

Hang the walls with waterproof pa- 
per. Or tint the walls with a natural 
cement that has no glue and does 
not require a glue size on the wall. 
Apply this direct to the plaster, cover 
with water enamel or soluble glass, 
and when dry go over it with shellac 
or any good hard varnish. Neither 
steam, water, nor heat will affect this 
kind of a wall. The work can be done 
by anyone, and the cost is insignifi- 
cant. Walls above sinks and wash- 
stands and other parts of the house 
may be treated in the same way. 

Or hang India matting three feet 
high around the wall above the wain- 
scot boards, and finish top and bot- 



68 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



torn with a small piece of molding. 
This gives a clean, airy appearance 
to the room, and may be wiped off 
with a damp cloth. 

The best plumbing and porcelain 
are none too good for the bathroom. 
Be sure that all joints are tight, and 
that the entire equipment is kept in a 
sanitary condition. 

T^ LIBBABY 

A room specially furnished as a 
library is not possible in all homes. 
It is not only a great luxury where it 
can be afforded, but has also an im- 
portant educational influence. If a 
room can be spared for the purpose 
no great expense is required to furnish 
a library attractively, as the books 
themselves, if properly arranged, go 
far toward giving the room a habit- 
able look. Fewer bookcases are used 
now than were formerly. It is much 
more customary to build in low shelves 
about the walls of the library or liv- 
ing rooms, or both, having a shelf 
above on which magazines, casts, fig- 
ures, etc., can be placed. These shelves 
may be built in removable sections; 
placed side by side or built in againsl 
the wall, and stained or painted to 
match the woodwork. Anyone who is 
handy with tools can make them, or 
they can be put in at very little cost 
by a local carpenter. Break off the 
shelves where they come to a window 
casing, and have a low shelf wider 
than the others, and level with the 
window sill, built in as a window seat. 
Cover this with a cushion of denim or 
other suitable material and supply it 
with sofa cushions. A writing desk 
or table, a Morris chair, and other 
suitable chairs will complete the neces- 
sary furnishings. 

Hang the walls with suitable paper 
or cloth in solid colors, as reds or 
browns. Paint or stain the floors, or 
cover them with linoleum, matting, 
or something that will not gather dust. 
Avoid intricate designs and patterns 
of all sorts that tend to fatigue the 
eye and interfere with the restfulness 
and quiet which the use of the room 



suggests. Books, if they receive prop- 
er care, do not require glass cases to 
keep them in good order. They are 
far more convenient upon open shelves, 
and lend quite a different aspect to 
the room, in which they are kept. 

Writing Desks. — Have a suitable 
desk or table furnished with paper, 
pens and ink, pencils, and all other 
conveniences, both for study and for 
business and social correspondence. 
Such duties are much more neglected 
in the ordinary family than they would 
be if all these conveniences were at 
hand in a place set apart for the 
purpose. Furniture is now made so 
cheaply that a good oak desk, if it 
cannot be purchased locally, may be 
had of one of the mail-order houses 
for a small amount, or may be ob- 
tained at a low price of second-hand 
dealers in the larger cities. Such an 
article of furniture lasts a lifetime 
and contributes a great deal toward 
forming habits of order and system 
in the household that are much en- 
couraged by the practice of writing 
memoranda of various sorts. But if 
nothing better can be had, an ordi- 
nary kitchen table with one or two 
large drawers to hold paper, ink, and 
pencils may be placed in the library, 
painted or stained to match the wood- 
work, and covered with a piece of felt, 
denim, or other suitable material; this 
substitute will answer all the purposes 
of the most expensive article. 

Or a suitable desk that may be put 
together by anyone who is handy with 
tools will answer every purpose. 

Use of the Library. — Put in a lib- 
eral supply of shelves, if a room is set 
apart for a library, and fill them as 
soon as possible. The empty shelves 
will speak for themselves and suggest 
the habit of buying good books to 
fill them. Do not despise paper-bound 
books or back numbers of popular 
periodicals, even if the covers become 
slightly worn and dog-eared. Much of 
the best literature of the world is 
now published in periodicals or re- 
printed in cheap paper editions, and 
books that are worth a king's ransom 
may be purchased at five or ten cents 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



69 



apiece. The thoughtful reader can 
get as much from these volumes as 
if they were printed on parchment 
and bound in cloth of gold. 

Buy well-bovind books when you can 
afPord to do so, but never, put off 
buying a book you need or want be- 
cause you can only buy it second hand 
or in a cheap binding. The old books 
are often, if not always, the best, and 
they usually come the cheapest. Emer- 
son says it is a good rule not to read 
any book that is not ten years old. Buy 
a dictionary, and, if you can afford 
to, a good encyclopedia. Hang on 
the walls a map of the world and one 
or two other good maps. Provide a 
blackboard if there are children in the 
family, and also a drawing board, 
which may be homemade, with a T 
square and a few^ simple draughting 
utensils. Encourage the children to 
use the library as a place in which to 
get their lessons, and to invest their 
pennies in books. This last will be a 
habit of lasting value. Have a file in 
which to preserve letters, bills, and 
family memoranda, and a tin box or 
a small safe for deeds, leases, and the 
like. Keep the laundry list, shopping 
list, inventory of furniture, and all 
similar memoranda for the entire f ana- 
lly in the library desk or table, where 
it can always be found at a moment's 
notice when wanted. 

Care of Books. — Have book shelves 
rather deep, and bring the books out 
to the front edge of the shelf rather 
than crowd them back against the 
wall. They look better, may be dusted 
more easily, and where the walls are 
damp are not so likely to get moldy. 
Tip the books gently forward and 
dust the tops each day; occasionally 
take them down, two or three at a 
time, and carefully dust them and the 
shelf behind them. Commence, of 
course, with the top shelf. Note when 
dusting any indication of mold and 
take steps to remove and prevent it. 

Books — To Prevent Mold. — Spray 
the books and shelves, by means of an 
atomizer having a fine spray, with oil 
of lavender, pennyroyal, or any of the 
perfumed eSsential oils. Oil of cedar 



was used by the ancients to preserve 
their valuable manuscripts. Add a 
few drops of any essential oil to li- 
brary paste, ink, or any similar sub- 
stance, to prevent mold, and apply 
the same to leather bindings by means 
of an atomizer or soft cloth or brush. 

Insect Pests of Books. — The prin- 
cipal insect pests in a library are the 
ordinary cockroach and the silver fish, 
silver louse, silver witch, sugar fish, or 
whatever it may be locally called, as 
it goes under a number of different 
names. This is a small silvery shining 
worm or moth which is seen when 
books and papers that have remained 
undisturbed for some time are moved. 
It shuns the light and runs very rap- 
idly to a place of concealment, so it 
is not often seen. But the effects of 
its ravages are very apparent. It loves 
starch, and feeds on the starch used 
in the bindings of books, and also eats 
away the surface of heavily glazed 
paper to feed upon the sizing. It 
eats also starched clothing, linen, and 
curtains, and may do damage to any 
fabric in which starch has been used 
as a size. 

To destroy the silver flsh, cover bits 
of cardboard with boiled starch paste 
poisoned with arsenic and lay them on 
book shelves, behind mantels, under 
washbowls, in the bottom of drawers, 
etc. But, of course, take care that 
this paste is not within reach of chil- 
dren or household pets. 

Or dust bookshelves liberally with 
common Persian insect powder of 
pyrethrum. A poison for roaches 
will be found elsewhere. 

Oil or Grease on Books. — To re- 
move oil or grease spots from books 
or paper, sprinkle the spot thickly 
with a little powdered pipe clay, full- 
er's earth, or prepared chalk; lay over 
this a sheet of brown paper and ap- 
ply a hot iron, but not hot enough to 
scorch the sheet. If the powder sticks 
to the paper, rub it off gently with a 
soft eraser. 

Or warm the parts and take up as 
much of the grease as possible with 
fine blotting paper. Apply to the spot 
hot spirits of turpentine or sulphurous 



70 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ether with a soft, clean brush or rag. 
Let dry and moisten with alcohol. 
This will kill the grease without dis- 
coloring the paper. Repeat if neces- 
sary. 

Or mix equal parts of finely pow- 
dered burnt alum and sulphur. Wet 
the paper slightly and sprinkle with 
this powder imtil the spots disappear. 
But remember that fine glazed or 
coated paper must not be wet. 

Ink Stains. — To remove ink stains 
from paper or the leaves of books, 
first test to find the nature of the ink 
by moistening with water, and taking 
up as much as possible on clean blot- 
ting paper. If the stain is that of 
iron-gall or logwood ink apply spirits 
of salts diluted with five or six parts 
of water, and rinse in clear water as 
soon as the ink disappears. 

Or use a saturated solution of ox- 
alic, citric, or tartaric acid or salts 
of lemon. None of these will affect 
printer's ink. Apply with a camel's- 
hair brush or soft cloth. Rinse with 
clear water and dry between blotters 
by means of a warm smoothing iron. 

Or apply alternately by means of a 
camel's-hair brush first a solution of 
oxalic acid and then cyanide of potas- 
sium until the ink is removed. 

Or, if the ink contains nigrosine, 
eosin, or other coal-tar products, wet 
chloride of lime with water until it 
melts slightly, moisten a soft cloth 
with this and touch the spot gently 
until the ink mark disappears. Rinse 
with clear water containing a few 
drops of aqua ammonia. Repeat if 
necessary. 

Ink Eraser. — Have at hand tartaric 
acid in large crystals. Rub off the 
sharp corners of the crystals and 
moisten slightly in water. Rub the 
ink mark with this. Repeat if neces- 
sary. When the ink has disappeared 
apply dry blotting paper, and the 
spot may be written over at once. 

Or dissolve four ounces of chloride 
of lime in one quart of water and 
strain through cheese cloth. Dissolve 
separately one ounce of acetic acid in 
ten ounces of water. Apply first the 
chloride of lime and afterwards the 



acid solution by dipping the blunt end 
of the penholder in it and letting a 
drop fall on the spot, by moistening 
the cork, or otherwise. Do not rub 
the paper when it is moist. Apply 
blotting paper as soon as the ink 
disappears. 

Iron Stains. — To remove iron stains 
or mold from leaves of books or pa- 
per, apply a solution of sulphate of 
potash and follow with a saturated 
solution of oxalic acid. 

To Clean Books. — To clean paper 
or books that have become soiled by 
handling, rub with a soft piece of 
stale bread to take off loose dirt, lay 
over the page a piece of clean blot- 
ting paper moistened in a saturated 
solution of citric, tartaric, or oxalic 
acid, and go over this with a hot iron. 
Do not use enough of the solution to 
wet the page, but simply moisten the 
leaf of the book with the acid. 

To Remove Fruit Stains. — Hold the 
st^in over an inverted cone or funnel 
filled with the fumes of sulphurous- 
acid gas from a burning brimstone 
match or a bit of sulphur. Remove 
stains from the edges of book leaves 
by means of fine sandpaper. 

To Clean Prints. — Fasten prints or 
engravings to a board and by means 
of a camel's-hair brush wash with 
dilute carbonate of ammonia (one 
ounce to a pint of water). Rinse with 
fresh water, turn, and repeat the 
process on the opposite side. Dip the 
paper in a solution of one ounce of 
white wine vinegar and a teaspoonf ul 
of chloride of lime to a pint of water. 
Rinse with clear water and expose to 
direct sunshine. This process will 
clear up the background without in- 
juring the print. 

Or, to clean prints that are merely 
spotted with water, dip them in clear 
water, or let them lie in running 
water until saturated. Pin them to a 
board and expose them to direct sun- 
shine. 

To Restore Faded Uanuscripts. — 
To restore old manuscripts, which are 
usually written in iron-gall inks, ap- 
ply by means of a soft brush a satu- 
rated solution of ferrocyanide of pot- 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



71 



ash in water, and copy the writing as 
soon as it appears, as it will again 
fade. 

Or boil gallnuts in alcohol and ap- 
ply by means of a sponge or brush. 

To Mend Torn Book f ag«s. — Clip 
two narrow strips of tracing paper 
long enough to cover the tear and 
apply them on either side the page 
by means of Japanese rice cement, 
which is a paste made of boiled rice 
starch. Both the paper and the paste 
being transparent the tear, if skillfully 
mended, will not be noticeable and 
will not interfere with the use of the 
voltmie. 

To remove creases, put the sheet 
between two pieces of white unsized 
paper, or blotting paper slightly 
dampened, and smooth with a warm 
flatiron when the crease comes out. 

To Freshen Bookbindings. — Rub 
with a soft piece of stale bread or a 
piece of chamois slightly moistened 
and dipped in pulverized pumice stone. 
To restore calf bindings, dissolve one 
ounce of pure white glue in a pint of 
warm water, add a teaspoonful of 
glycerine and a. tablespoonful of rice 
or flour paste. Apply by means of a 
soft brush and polish with a chamois 
skin slightly dampened. 

list of Books. — Have a list or cata- 
logue of even the smallest collection 
of books. This may be kept alpha- 
betically, by setting apart one or more 
pages of a blank book for each letter 
in the alphabet. When lending a book 
make a memorandum on a slip of pa- 
per of the date and name of the bor- 
rower, and slip it into the leaves of 
the catalogue. It is a pleasure to lend 
books, but not to lose them. Thus you 
will always know where your books 
are, and can ask for them if they are 
not returned within a reasonable time. 

To Handle Books. — To open a new 
book, first cut the leaves by means of 
a blunt paper cutter or other straight- 
edge. Do not use scissors or other 
sharp edge for this purpose, as a cut- 
ting edge may slip and injure the 
page. Then rest the book on a flat 
surface, steady it upright with the 
left hand, let one cover fall to the 



right, and with the right hand open 
the leaves a few at a time, smoothing- 
them gently until the middle of the 
book is reached. Turn it around, let 
the other cover fall, and repeat the 
process until the other half of the 
leaves have been opened. This flexes 
the back of the book equally, causes 
it to open freely, and prevents break- 
ing the backbone of the book by open- 
ing it suddenly and violently in one 
place. Cheap and poorly bound books, 
if carefully opened by this method, 
will often stand a lifetime of ordinary 
wear. 

Do not lay an open book face down 
or with another book or anything else 
between its leaves. Do not turn down 
the corners of leaves to keep the place. 
Use a bookmark, if necessary, but re- 
member that persons who read much 
have no difficulty in finding without a 
bookmark the place where they left 
off. 

Do not pull books from a case by 
the top of the binding. Take them 
by the backs. 

Let children handle books freely, 
and teach them to give books good 
care, but if necessary cover the books 
with cloth or paper to preserve the 
binding. 

Pens. — Hold a new pen for a mo- 
ment in the flame of a match, or mois- 
ten it with water before dipping in 
ink. 

Scrapbooks. — Keep one or more 
scrapbooks on the library table, with 
scissors and paste or mucilage always 
at hand, and give all members of the 
family the privilege of freely contrib- 
uting to them. Or let each one keep 
a separate scrapbook. Any blank 
book may be used for this purpose 
by cutting out every second leaf, or 
two leaves out of three. If desired, 
instead of pasting clippings to the 
pages of the scrapbook, strong envel- 
opes may be pasted with the face to 
the page, so that the flap may be 
opened and the clipping slipped in. 
These may be labeled on the flap, and 
an index kept inside the front cover 
or on the first page or two left open 
for the purpose. Thus a book may be 



72 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



kept for cooking recipes, with an en- 
velope each for bread, puddings, cakes, 
gravies, etc. 

Or j okes, funny pictures, and poems 
may be preserved and brought out to 
entertain friends or lent to cheer a 
sick neighbor; or a book for quota- 
tions, bits of wit and humor, pretty 
sentiments, and the like; or a book 
of household recipes to supplement 
those contained in this and similar 
volumes. 

Conunonplace Book. — Have a scrap- 
book or blank book in which to keep 
memoranda of the things you come 
across in reading that you think are 
important enough to remember. All 
literary men have some system of 
keeping notes of things they read that 
interest them, so that they can look 
up the passage again upon occasion. 
Anyone who reads a great deal knows 
that the memory cannot be trusted to 
carry indefinitely the accumulated re- 
sults of many hours of study. But a 
system of notes classified by index 
will preserve the key to one's reading, 
and vrill be of untold benefit in future 
years. 

Pencil Sharpener. — Cover a small 
block of wood with coarse sandpaper 
on one side and fine on the other. The 
coarse paper serves as a rasp for the 
wood of the pencil, and the fine paper 
to give any required degree of sharp- 
ness to the point. This is as good a 
pencil sharpener as can be found. 

To Clean Pencil Erasers. — Have at 
hand a piece of old plaster. When 
the eraser becomes soiled, rub it on 
the plaster to clean it. 

Beading Aloud. — The best way to 
keep books in good order is to use 
them, and books will not long remain 
on the shelves to collect dust if the 
different members of the family are 
in the habit of reading aloud. Select 
for this purpose stories simple enough 
to be interesting to every member of 
the family. Do not make reading dis- 
tasteful by attempting to choose books 
that will give direct instruction, but 
consult the tastes of all and read for 
pleasure and to make the habit of 
reading attractive. Once formed the 



habit will grow by what it feeds on, 
and by wise selection of good fiction 
different members of the family may 
be stimulated to more serious readings 
for themselves. Let all take turns, 
and the hours so occupied will be long 
remembered as among the pleasantest 
and most fruitful that were spent in 
the family circle. Happy are the 
parents who by this means encourage 
the reading habit among their chil- 
dren. The greatest men in the world 
are those who formed during boyhood 
the habit of reading at every available 
moment. Carlisle said that " the best 
university nowadays Is a collection of 
good books." The taste for good 
books and the habit of reading are 
keys to the libraries of the world. 

To Prevent Hold. — Books, papers, 
or documents stored in safes, drawers, 
or book shelves may be protected 
against mold by putting among them 
small lumps of camphor. These evap- 
orate in time, and must be renewed 
when necessary. 

Pictures. — Modern photography has 
introduced many improvements in the 
arts that have cheapened the process 
of reproducing pictures. Hence it is 
now possible for every family to af- 
ford reproductions of the most cele- 
brated paintings and other art objects. 
Several firms of photographers issue 
catalogues from which selections can 
be made of prints reproduced from 
the contents of the art galleries of 
the world. The celebrated Perry pic- 
tures cost but a few cents each, and 
are not only artistic in -themselves 
but have a distinct educational value. 
Hence prints and photographs prop- 
erly framed are rapidly taking the 
place of the lithographs and chromos 
of a former generation. Steel and 
copper-plate engravings, etchings, and 
original paintings are also obtainable 
at much lower prices than they were 
formerly. 

To Choose Pictures. — ^Pictures give 
the last touch to the decorations of a 
home, and are in many ways its most 
important ornament. But they should, 
as a rule, be among the last articles 
to be selected, and should be chosea 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



73> 



with the greatest care. Pictures hung 
in the living rooms of a home reveal 
the tastes of the inmates. Hence not 
only should the subjects be appro- 
priate to the room in which they are 
hung, but they should harmonize with 
one another, and contribute to a pleas- 
ing general effect. No single picture 
should be so large or so heavily 
framed as to be the most conspicuous 
object in the room or attract undue 
attention from other pictures and 
from the furnishings in general. 

THE BININe BOOM 

Besides the regular dining-room fur- 
niture, tables, chairs, sideboard, and 
serving table, the addition of a plate 
rail or rack for plates, pitchers, and 
other decorative china objects, and of 
a china cabinet with glass doors for 
displaying the best china, help to give 
a room character and beauty. The 
effect of these articles will be very 
much heightened if the wall coverings 
are in solid or double-toned colors, 
and, as in other living rooms, hard- 
wood floors or floor coverings in solid 
colors, with a large rug or drugget 
coming within a few feet of the wall 
aU around, make perhaps the most 
effective treatment. The color scheme 
of the dining room should preferably 
be in cheerfid tones, as blues, yel- 
lows, or reds, according to the amount 
of light the room receives. 

China Closet. — The china cabinet is 
a useful and beautiful article of fur- 
niture, but in the absence of such a 
cabinet any ordinary closet opening 
into a dining room may be utilized 
as a china closet by removing the 
door and replacing it with a deco- 
rative door with diamond panes of 
glass, and lining the interior with 
denim to correspond in color with the 
furnishings of the room. 

Or the door may be removed and 
replaced by a suitable drapery hang- 
ing from a rod, and drawn aside when 
the dining room is in use. Screw 
hooks on the inside of the shelves of 
the china cabinet or closet from which 
to hang cups to display them, save 



space, and prevent breakage. Tack a 
narrow strip of board two or three 
inches from the back of each shelf, as 
a rim to hold up the plates. Or put 
in a row of brass tacks standing an 
eighth of an inch above the shelf for 
this purpose. 

Table Pad.— A pad of table felt 
sold for the purpose should be laid 
over the dining-room table, both to 
protect the polish and to save the 
linen tablecloth. But an old blanket 
or thick cotton flannel may be used 
for this purpose, or clean carpet lin- 
ing can be utilized by covering it with 
white muslin smoothly pasted on. This 
will last for months and can be read- 
ily replaced. 

To Store Table leaves. — Fasten un- 
der the lower shelf of the pantry the 
frame in which the extra boards of 
the extension dining table come, and 
slide the boards in. Thus they take 
up no extra space and are always at 
hand. 

China. — Select a stock pattern when 
buying china, and preferably a stand- 
ard design of some sort, as the well- 
known willow or onion design, or some 
other that can be readily replaced as 
pieces are broken. When possible it 
is, of course, a good plan to have two 
sets of china, one for best, to be dis- 
played in the china cabinet and only 
used upon special occasions, and an- 
other for ordinary wear, which may 
be less delicate and expensive. 

THE EITCHEir, STOBEBOOM, AND 
PAHTEY 

The kitchen, as the workshop of the 
house, is the room in which many 
housekeepers spend most of their 
waking hours. Hence it should be 
perhaps the lightest, airiest, and most 
cheerful room in the house. It is safe 
to say that much more attention 
might well be given to the matter of 
kitchen conveniences than they usu- 
ally receive. There are very few 
housekeepers indeed who could not, 
by intelligent forethought in plan- 
ning and arranging the contents of 
the kitchen, pantry, and storeroom, 



74 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



save themselves daily miles of useless 
traveling to and fro. 

Color for Kitchen. — Try to make 
the kitchen a room in harmonizing 
tints by painting or tinting the walls 
in light greens and the floor in dark 
green. Or a clear, light yellow is a 
good color for the kitchen walls, with 
the floor in brown. Or, if the room 
has a southern or western exposure, 
gray walls, with the floor in drab or 
slate color, will give a. cooler effect. 

Kitchen Walls. — Kitchen walls 
should be covered with washable ma- 
terials; hence ordinary wall paper 




' The Cracks May be Filled.' 



and calcimine are less suitable in the 
kitchen than in other parts of the 
house. If the walls are new and 
smooth, tint them in waterproof ce- 
ment or paint them with water colors 
and coat with soluble glass. Both 
these processes are inexpensive. 

Or washable paper is excellent. It 
can be washed and kept perfectly 
clean, and does not absorb grease or 
moisture. 

Or paint the walls with common oU 



paint of good quality and finish with 
a coat of enamel paint or soluble 
glass, so that they can be mopped the 
same as the floor. For this purpose 
fit a large sponge into a mop handle. 
But paint is not as easy to wash down 
as washable paper or oilcloth, hence, 
where the walls are in go'od condition, 
the latter is preferable. 

Kitchen Floor. — A tight, smooth 
floor of unpainted wood, hard enough 
not to splinter and to admit of being 
scrubbed, is perhaps the best floor for 
a kitchen. But if the floor is of soft 
wood, or is uneven and has unsightly 
cracks in it, the cracks may be filled 
and the floor painted with oil paints, 
and varnish or " lac " paints contain- 
ing varnish may be used. 

Or the floor may be covered with 
linoleum, which is perhaps, all things 
considered, the most satisfactory floor 
covering. Before laying the linoleum 
on a rough floor, cover the floor with 
<x layer of sand, or sawdust, or old 
newspapers, to prevent its being worn 
by the cracks, and give the linoleum 
a coat of paint and varnish three or 
four times a year. When thus treated 
it is practically indestructible. 

Or oilcloth may be substituted for 
linoleum and cared for in the same 
fashion. This is inexpensive, and with 
proper care will last a long time. 

Kitchen Sinks. — The sink may be of 
iron or other metal, with or without 
enamel, or of stone, or even of wood 
lined with lead, tin, or zinc. But it 
should stand on four legs, and all the 
waste pipe should be exposed to sun 
and air. Take away all woodwork 
from about the sink, and paint the 
pipes and under part the same color 
as the walls and woodwork. 

If the air is admitted freely to all 
parts, no moisture can accumulate to 
cause the decay of organic matter 
which produces diphtheria, typhoid 
and other fevers. Physicians say that 
when these diseases occur in any 
household, the first thing they look at 
is the sink and the arrangements for 
drainage about the kitchen door. Each 
day rinse the dishpan with boiling 
water in which dissolve a tablespoon- 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



75 



ful or more of washing soda or aqua 
ammonia, and pour it down the spout 
boiling hot. Once a week flush the 
pipes by filling the sink with boiling 
water, in which dissolve a teacupful 
of chloride of lime. Use a quantity 
of water great enough so that it will 
run through the pipes with force. 
This is the best disinfectant, is cheap, 
and just as good as any patent 
preparation. 

Have the drainage carried to a suf- 
ficient distance from the house into a 
covered cesspool, whence it will leach 
off into the soil, and see that it does 
not leach into the well. Never throw 
dishwater from the kitchen door. 
Have a receptacle for aU garbage, 
and feed it regularly to the chickens, 
or, if no fowls are kept, see that it is 
burned, buried, or at least removed to 
a distance from the house. Scald the 
garbage receptacle vrith a solution of 
chloride of lime — ^half a teacupful to 
a quart of water — ^twice a week. 

Kitchen Table. — A bench or table, 
homemade if necessary, at the left of 




' Homemade it Necessary. 



the kitchen sink and as large as the 
room will admit, is indispensable to 
saving steps in the kitchen. Have this 



overlap the edge of the sink and cover 
with zinc, which will not rust. Turn 
up the zinc over a molding around the 
sides of the table, except at the end 
over the sink, so that water will drain 
back from it into the latter. Carry 
ths zinc, if possible, eighteen inches 
or two feet up the kitchen wall be- 
hind the table and the sink. This is 
lasting, easily kept clean, and is not 
injured by hot pans or kettles. If 
scrubbed clean it can be used as a 
molding board. Particles of dough 
which adhere to it can easily be 
scraped off with a knife. Zinc that 
has done duty under a stove may be 
used for a kitchen table. Cut a V 
out of the corners, lap over the edges, 
and nail closely with long, sharp steel 
tacks. 

Or cover the kitchen table with oil- 
cloth. This wiU last a long time if 
the table is padded with sheet wad- 
ding or several thicknesses of news- 
paper covered with an old sheet. 
Draw the padding smooth and tack 
it under the edge of the table. 

Kitchen Rack for TTtensils. — Cover 
the wall back of the kitchen table and 
sink with zinc or oilcloth about two 
feet in height, tacking a strip of inch- 
thick pine or other soft wood about 
three inches vnde along the top. Along 
the middle of this fasten a narrow 
strip of leather or a strip of doubled 
oilcloth, with tacks at intervals of one 
and a. half or two inches, making 
loops through which cooking spoons, 
knives, forks, can openers, etc., may 
be thrust. Thus these articles are 
always in sight and ready for use. 
Above put up a number of six- or 
eight-inch shelves to any desired height 
to hold breakfast foods, coffee, salt, 
pepper and other spices, glass jars or 
tin cans containing nuts, rice, beans, 
sugar, and various dry groceries. On 
the upper shelves can be stored soap, 
canned goods, and the like. Insert 
hooks on the under side of the lower 
shelf to hold measuring cups, tin pails, 
or anything that can be hung up out 
of the way. Cover the shelves with 
oilcloth so that they can be kept clean. 
Hang from the cleat against the wall 



76 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



a board of any desired size, say 16 by 
24, which may be of weathered oak 
or any hard-wood stuff cleated to pre- 
vent warping. In this screw small 
brass hooks on which to hang the 
strainer, baking spoon, egg whip, 
roasting fork, meat cleaver, bread 
toaster, etc. These shelves and the 
rack save thousands of steps to the 
pantry and take the place of a costly 
kitchen cabinet. 

Blotters in the Kitchen. — Obtain a 
supply of ordinary desk blotters and 
have a place for them on the rack 
above the kitchen table. If fruit juice 
or grease spatters or spills on cloth- 
ing or table linen apply the edge or 
corner of a clean blotter, and most of 
the liquid will be taken up. 

Or, if grease is spilled on the floor, 
a blotter will take it up quickly while 
warm and save the labor of removing 
a grease spot that has soaked into the 
boards. 

Tin Back. — Hang near the range a 
plate rack, which may be homemade, 
or fasten a cleat against the wall for 
tin lids, kettle covers, pie tins, and 
the like. Thus these are always dry 
and convenient. 

Pantry Shelves. — Paint the pantry 
shelves white, or cover them with a 
coat of white enamel. Wash the 
shelves with cold water as soon as 
the enamel dries, and it will harden 
quickly. Such shelves will not require 
oilcloth or paper, can be easily wiped 
oft with a damp cloth, and always 
show when perfectly clean. 

Or cover the shelves with white oil- 
cloth. Cut the oilcloth to exactly fit 
the shelf, turn down over the edge, 
and paste on. While somewhat ex- 
pensive, this lasts for years, cleans 
easily, and always looks well. 

Or use ordinary building paper, 
which is better than newspaper and 
by the roll is very cheap. It can be 
wiped off with a damp cloth almost 
as easily as paint. 

Or use washable paper, the same as 
kitchen walls are hung with, pasting 
it to the shelves. 

Or, if newspapers are used, fold a 
whole newspaper the longest way of 



the full sheets and place the fold in. 
the front of the shelf. Then when 
cleaning the pantry it is only neces- 
sary to slip a paper cutter in the fold 
of the outer sheet, cut it clear across, 
and take off the soiled upper part. 

Tack a narrow strip of wood (any 
left-over pieces of picture molding 
will do) along the back of the pantry 
shelves, about three inches from the 
wall. To save space, stand platters 
and large plates with their edges rest- 
ing against this. 

Run a one-inch strip of wood against 
the wall, held away from it by wooden 
brackets; in this put kettle lids and 
covers of all sizes. 

Screw suitable hooks on the under 
side of the shelves for dishes having 
handles, as pitchers, cups, and the like. 

Dampness in Closets. — Place a bowl 
of quicklime in a damp pantry, cup- 
board, or closet. This not only re- 
moves dampness, but kills all odors. 

Kange Shelves. — Have near the 
range a shelf to hold the many things 
needed in cooking, as pepper, salt, 
and other seasonings, flavorings, and 
the like, to save steps to the pantry 
or to the shelves over the kitchen 
table. Have another shelf covered 
with zinc on which to put down hot 
kettles and articles taken fresh from 
the baking oven. 




"Mounted on Large Casters." 



Rolling Table.— Have made at home 
or by a carpenter a small, strong table 
about 2 feet or 24 by 3 feet, mounted 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



77 



on large casters or small wheels, which 
can be bought at small expense at a 
hardware store. Have a shelf part 
way down in addition to the top. 
When clearing or setting the dining- 
room table load this serving table and 
draw it to and from the kitchen. 
Thus one trip will do for all. 

Kitchen Slate. — Try making a pro- 
gramme each morning of the things 
to be done through the day. Or jot 
down from time to time those that 
must be done at the first opportunity. 
You will be surprised to find how 
quickly these things will be disposed 
of. When cooking or preparing com- 
pany dinner, make a list of the arti- 
cles to be prepared, and glance at it 
occasionally. 

Homemade Receipt Book. — Have at 
hand a blank book in which to paste 
or copy valuable recipes. Cover this 
with white oilcloth neatly pasted on. 
Have a special part of this book or a 
separate book for menus. This will 
help to solve the problem of what to 
have for dinner. 

Kitchen Lounge. — Remove the old 
sofa to the kitchen, and put in Its 
place a modern couch with an artistic 
couch cover. 

Or make a homemade lounge out of 
a long packing box or tack together 
two of the right height. Put on a 
cover with hinges. Line with wall 
paper or building paper. Make a 
suitable mattress which may be stuffed 
with straw, husks, or any convenient 
material, and cover with any suitable 
material as cretonne, baize, or calico. 
Or use washable material, as red-and- 
white bed ticking. The mattress may 
be adjusted so that the lid can be 
lifted and the inside used as a re- 
ceptacle for various purposes. While 
waiting for the kettle to boll, for 
bread to rise, and the like, drop down 
on the kitchen lounge and rest. It is 
just such little economies of strength 
that in the long run save time and 
preserve health. 

SMALL EC0IT0MIE3 

The reason many things are wasted 
in every household is that the family 



has not formed the habit of making 
uses for them. The following ways to 
use string, paper bags, wrapping pa- 
per and newspapers, lard pails, and 
various cans and bottles that come 
into the house every day from the 
grocers and other merchants, will be 
found Hot only useful small econo- 
mies but also valuable household con- 
veniences. 

TTses of Common Twine. — Save all 
bits of string or twine, and teach the 
children to sort them and knot the 
different sizes together. Roll the com- 
mon white twine up into a ball, drop 
it inside a box, with the end protrud- 
ing through a hole in the lid. Or use 
the accumulated twine to knit or cror 
chet dishcloths eight to twelve inches 
square. Bath slippers can also be 
made of it. 

Wind poarse twine on a roller or 
fishline reel and hang it up on the 
back of the pantry door. 

Paper Bags. — These are not only 
convenient to wrap up articles, but 
are especially useful to polish stoves 
and lamp chimneys, to wipe up milk, 
grease, or what not, as they can be 
quickly disposed of by burning when 
soiled. 

Tissue Paper. — This is useful for 
polishing glass, wrapping up laces, 
ribbons, and other delicate articles. 

Oiled Papers. — Oiled papers that 
come over butter and lard may be 
used for papering cake tins. The 
waxed papers that come on the inside 
of cracker or biscuit boxes are useful 
to wrap up cheese and other articles 
which will deteriorate if exposed to 
the air, also for wrapping lunches, for 
school and factory lunch pails, and 
picnics. 

Wrapping Paper .^This may be used 
to slice bread and cake upon, roll 
crackers, pare apples or potatoes, and 
dress chickens on, after which it may 
be rolled up and dropped into the 
garbage pail. 

Or it may be spread over the gar- 
bage pail and all garbage placed on 
it to save trouble in cleaning. 

Flour Bags. — Large paper flour 
bags are useful for bleaching gloves 



78 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



and other small articles with the 
fumes of sulphur, and dry cleaning 
with magnesia, corn meal, and similar 
substances. The cloth sacks may be 
used for dish towels and dishcloths. 

When emptying flour sacks, a small 
amount of flour will adhere to the 
sack. Turn the sack inside out, lay it 
over the molding board, and knead 
the bread upon it. This wiU cleanse 
it effectually. 

Newspapers. — Spread clean news- 
papers under the carpet, especially if 
the floor is rough. They make a 
smooth surface, prevent wear, and 
also check draughts through the floor 
cracks. Also use them for polishing 
windows, mirrors, lamp chimneys, 
stove tops, and nickel. 

Spread a newspaper before the stove 
when taking up ashes. Light news- 
paper in the open grate when taking 
up ashes, or shaking down a grate 
fire. The resulting draught will carry 
the dust up the chimney. 

Cover plants on frosty nights with 
newspapers, or if indoors, put them 
between the plants and the windows. 
Fold a newspaper across the chest 
and attach with safety pins under the 
cloak or coat when exposed for a long 
time in cold winds, as in sleigh- 
riding. 

Also use newspapers for wrapping 
furs, velvets, and other articles when 
storing them to protect them from 
moths. 

Tin Cans. — Lard, kerosene, and 
other oils are sold in various parts of 
the country in five-gallon cans. These 
can be obtained from the grocer for 
a small sum and make excellent boil- 
ers to wash out small articles too 
dainty for the regular wash. They 
can also be used with a small wash- 
board as tubs. 

Or they may be used as flour bins, 
bread or cake boxes, and the like. 

Or, by removing the top and making 
holes at each side and attaching short 
pieces of copper wire with a broom 
handle between, convenient pails may 
be made out of them. These pails 
may be made of any desired depth by 
cutting off the can with a cold chisel 



and hammer and turning back the 
sharp edges. 

Such cans are also convenient to salt 
down pickles, steam fruit, etc. 

lard Pails. — These may be used for 
storing sugar, coffee, cereals, and rice. 
Or for potting plants, especially as 
hanging baskets. They are also use- 
ful both in five- and ten-pound sizes 
for steaming brown bread and Indian 
puddings. A five-pound lard pail 
placed inside a ten-pound paU, and 
slightly raised from the bottom of 
the latter by small stones or otherwise, 
forms a good substitute for a double 
boiler. 

Or an earthen j ar or common sauce- 
pan may be used for the outer recep- 
tacle, and rice, cracked wheat, oat- 
meal, prunes, etc., may be cooked 
without danger of burning. 

They are also useful for storing 
and carrying milk, butter, and eggs. 

Baking-powder and Cocoa Cans. — 
One of these cans, with a. few nail 
holes in each end, is a good soap 
shaker. This will utilize all the scraps 
of soap. 

Or soak off the wrappers, paint 
these cans with any color of enameled 
paint, and label them with gilt or any 
other colored letters. Use these for 
all sorts of spices, which may be 
bought in bulk much cheaper than in 
cans. These cans are air-tight and will 
preserve the strength of the contents. 

Or use for this purpose empty vase- 
line and cold-cream jars with screw 
tops. These being of glass, their con- 
tents can be seen at a glance, and no 
labeling is required. 

Cereal Boxes. — The stiff pasteboard 
boxes in which breakfast foods are 
sold may be labeled and set in a row 
on the pantry shelf. When paper 
bags of dry groceries come from the 
grocer's, they may be dumped in the 
proper box, thus saving the time and 
trouble of opening first one sack and 
then another to find the right article. 
Use these for rice, beans, tapioca, corn 
meal, oatmeal, starch, salt, hominy, 
buckwheat, sugar, etc. 

Labels. — Everything should be la- 
beled for the convenience of every 



HOUSE FURNISHING AND DECORATING 



79 



member of the family. Beat up the 
white of an egg and dilute with a pint 
of warm water. On ironing day ap- 
ply this both to the label and to the 
glass or tin, and afterwards run a hot 
iron over the surface to set it. Tack 
pasteboard tags on wooden boxes, and 
on bags containing pieces of cloth of 
all descriptions tie cloth labels. 

Kitchen Cabinet. — A good kitchen 
cabinet, with metal bins for flour, 
meal, and other substances that mice 
are fond of, is an investment which 
will save time and strength for the 




"A Good Kitchen Cabinei. 



housekeeper and will be a money 
saver in the long run. These bins 
should be removable, so that they can 
be regularly washed, scalded, and 
dried. 

To Order Groceries. — A child's school 
slate hung on a nail in the wall of a 
kitchen, with a slate pencil attached 
by a strong cord, will be found a 
great convenience in ordering gro- 
ceries. When any supplies run low, 
make a note on the slate of what is 
wanted. The whole family will soon 
get into the habit of making these 
memoranda, and many steps in run- 
,ning errands will be saved. Also make 
an alphabetical list of groceries in a 
little indexed alphabetical memoran- 
dum book and hang this up on the 
same nail. When the grocer calls 



run over this list to refresh your 
mind. 

If the various dry groceries, as tapi- 
oca, rice, raisins, etc., are kept in glass 
jars, it will be easy to see what is 
wanted, and they will be protected 
from mice and insects. Fruit jars 
of various sizes are useful for this 
purpose. 

Or use a pad and pencil to keep 
memoranda of articles wanted. The 
paper can then be detached when go- 
ing to market and forms a convenient 
memorandum. 

Storeroom. — A cellar having a ce- 
ment floor and water-tight walls, if 
kept clean and sanitary, makes an 
ideal storeroom, but many houses do 
not have one. A small storeroom can be 
made in a corner of the cellar at much 
less cost than is commonly supposed, 
by putting up waUs of concrete made 
of sand or gravel and cement. Rough 
boards may be knocked together with 
very little trouble to make a mold. 
The cellar walls, if they are tight and 
dry, will make two sides; or they can 
be faced with cement by building a 
board-retaining wall an inch or two 
from the surface of the cellar wall 
and pouring the cement back of it. 
The whole, including the floor, can 
thus be made solid concrete at a 
trifling cost. When furnished with a 
suitable door, this storeroom ' will be 
damp proof and free from dust, 
germs, and all other unsanitary pests. 
There should be a cellar window pro- 
tected on the outside by wire netting, 
and having on the inside a removable 
screen of cheese cloth to keep out the 
dust. 

Slat shelves painted with white 
paint and a coat of enamel may be 
built up in this storeroom in the same 
manner as book stacks in a library, 
i. c, back to back, with just enough 
room between them for a person to 
walk. On these shelves preserves, 
pickles, canned goods, butter, eggs, 
and other groceries can be stored the 
year round in perfect safety. 

In a cellar thus equipped can be 
stored canned goods and other gro- 
ceries bought at wholesale when prices 



80 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



are low, thus saving in many cases 
26 per cent of the cost of such 
articles. 

Door Mat. — A great deal of mud is 
tracked in at the kitchen door. Make 
door mats of several thicknesses of 
old carpets, turning in the raw edges 
and sewing them together with carpet 
tacks. Attach stout loops to the cor- 
ners and fasten these over strong nails 
on the porch floor. These keep the 
mat in shape and place, and allow it 
to be readily removed and cleaned. 

Verandas. — One of the most notable 
changes that have come over American 




'Living Out of Doors. 



life in recent years is the increase in 
the custom of living out of doors. 
The old-fashioned porch, formerly a 
mere rain shed over the doorstep, or 
small outer vestibule, is being gener- 
ally replaced by a vdde structure ex- 



tending a considerable distance along 
one side of the house, if not entirely 
along two or more sides. The words 
"porch" or "piazza" are often im- 
properly applied to these improve- 
ments in place of the right name, 
"veranda," a word coming from India, 
which suggests a kind of living room 
out of doors. It is becoming more 
and more customary to furnish the 
veranda with suitable furniture that 
wiU not be harmed by exposure to the 
air, and use it in summer as a living 
room. 

Many verandas have regular win- 
dow casings fitted with removable 
hinged frames for glass and screens, 
and with ordinary roller shades, so as 
to admit, when desired, of all the 
privacy of an indoor apartment. By 
means of one or more suitable low 
tables, chairs, and other necessary ar- 
ticles, tea or lunch may be served on 
the veranda, sewing may be done, call- 
ers entertained, and social entertain- 
ments given. 

Suitable vines, as the clematis, Ma- 
deira vine, woodbine, or passion flower 
may be trained to run around the 
veranda and furnish grateful shade 
and privacy. A box couch in a shel- 
tered spot against the wall will be 
found useful as a receptacle for ham- 
mocks, old shoes, and various articles 
used about the lawn and grounds. It 
may be ^tted with a suitable padlock, 
and chained or otherwise fastened to 
the walls. 



CHAPTER II 

HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 

KINDS OF FUEL—HEATING SYSTEMS— CfflMNEYS AND FLUES— FIRE 
EXTINGUISHERS AND FIRE ESCAPES— FIREPROOFING AND 
WATERPROOFING — ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION — COAL GAS, 
GASOLINE GAS, AND ACETYLENE— KEROSENE OIL— CANDLES 
AND CANDLE MAKING— INDUSTRIAL ALCOHOL— WATER SUP- 
PLY—ICE AND REFRIGERATION 



KINDS OF FUEL 

The principal kinds of fuel used in 
this country are anthracite or hard, 
and bituminous or soft, coal, coke, 
gas, petroleum or kerosene, and wood, 
either hard or soft. Peat or turf 
fuel is quite common in European 
countries, and some attempts have 
been made to introduce it in the 
United States in the form of " bri- 
quettes " and " eggettes," but thus 
far without much success. The cost 
of the various kinds of fuel naturally 
varies according to local conditions, 
but where all kinds are equally plenti- 
ful, wood is the most expensive. About 
eighteen cords of the best hard wood 
is required to heat the home of an 
average family for a year. At six 
dollars a cord this would cost nine 
dollars a month. Anthracite or hard 
coal is the next most expensive fuel; 
its first cost is higher and it is not an 
economical fuel to use, the estimated 
cost of heating an average home with 
hard coal being about seven dollars a 
month. The cheapest forms of fuel 
in common use are bituminous or soft 
coal and coke. Where plenty of coke 
is available it may be regarded as 
perhaps the cheapest fuel, its cost 
being estimated on an average of 
about five dollars a month in tem- 
perate latitudes. Bituminous coal is, 
ton for ton, cheaper than coke, but as 
jsomewhat more is required for fuel. 



the cost may be regarded as prac- 
tically the same. Gas is, perhaps, the 
ideal fuel. It Is clean, convenient, and 
when the price is not unduly advanced 
by monopolistic control, it is cheaper 
than any other fuel. Under present 
conditions it is usually somewhat 
more expensive, although the extra 
cost is, perhaps, more than made up 
by increased convenience and effi- 
ciency. 

Coal as Fuel. — Coal in its natural 
state consists of solid carbon com- 
bined with various proportions of 
hydrocarbons (or compounds of car- 
bon with hydrogen, which may be 
driven off in the form of illuminating 
gas) and various impurities. Thus 
coal is really made up of two kinds of 
fuel: coke — ^which is practically all car- 
bon — and ordinary illuminating gas. 
It is much more convenient and satis- 
factory to use coal in these two sepa- 
rate forms than in its natural state. 
Very little bituminous or soft coal is 
used for domestic purposes in most 
parts of the United States, notwith- 
standing its cheapness, because of the 
dirt, dust, coal gas, and cinders con- 
sequent upon its use. Anthracite or 
hard coal is somewhat less trouble- 
some, but its use is wasteful because 
little more than the hydrocarbons 
driven off as gas is really consumed, 
the remainder being left in the form 
of cinders, which are usually thrown 
away. 



81 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



Sizes of Coal. — The large sizes of 
coal are the most wasteful, as the 
volatile gases are rarely all driven off 
and the heart of the large chunks is 
not usually consumed. The result is 
a residue of cinders and clinkers that 
choke up the grate and create a great 
deal of labor and discomfort. By the 
use of suitable grates and some care 
and attention, the smallest sizes of 
coal (which are also ton for ton much 
cheaper) may be utilized. 

Coal — Small Sizes to TTse. — The 
smallest size of coal in ordinary use 
is known as " pea coal." This requires 
a special grate, but after a fire has 
been kindled in an ordinary grate, and 
a good bed of coals has been made, 
pea coal may be used if care is taken 
not to shake down aU the ashes at 
once. There is a still smaller size 
known as " buckwheat coal," which is 
even cheaper than pea coal. This may 
be used in place of cinders to bank 
down the fires at night, the advantage 
being that when coke or larger coal is 
added to the fire next morning, the 
buckwheat coal will be entirely con- 
sumed, whereas a bank of cinders tends 
to deaden the fire during the day. 

Coke as Fuel. — Coke fs produced in 
large quantities as a by-product of 
illuminating gas, and in the vicinity 
of gas plants in cities it is usually 
sold at low prices. Coke is cleaner 
than coal (whether bard or soft), 
easier to kindle, burns more freely, 
and leaves a much smaller residue of 
ash, with practically no cinders or 
clinkers. The principal objection to 
its use is, that unless care is taken it 
may produce too hot a fire. But this 
difBculty may be overcome by bank- 
ing the fire after it is well kindled 
with buckwheat or pea coal. 

Gas as Fuel. — The advantages of 
gas as fuel are manifold, and its use, 
especially for cooking purposes, is be- 
ing rapidly extended. It is clean, 
convenient, and efficient, and will be 
the most economical fuel when proper 
arrangements are made for selling it 
to the public at a reasonable profit. 
It is probable that good gas can be 
manufactured and sold to the public 



in most localities in the neighborhood 
of fifty cents a thousand, and that 
under stress of competition new and 
approved appliances might be pro- 
duced that would decrease still fur- 
ther the cost of manufacture. Even 
at prices ranging from $1 to $1.50 
and upward per thousand, the use of 
gas, if proper care is observed, must 
be regarded as economical. 

HSATING SYSTEUS 

The principal systems of heating 
dwelling houses are the use of steam, 
hot water or hot air, generated by 
furnaces (located usually in a base- 
ment or cellar), and the use of closed 
coal, oil, or gas stoves, or of open 
grates, which may be placed in stoves 
or in fireplaces. Each of these sys- 
tems has its advantages and disad- 
vantages, but, disregarding the first 
cost, it is probable that, from the 
double standpoint of efficiency and 
economy, they may all be rated about 
as follows: First, steam; second, hot 
water; third, hot air; fourth, the 
open grate; fifth, the closed coal 
stove; sixth, closed oil stove; seventh, 
closed gas stove. 

Furnaces. — Furnaces vary greatly 
in the amount of coal that they con- 




"Most Notable is the Underfeed System." 

sume to produce a given temperature. 
At best only a small percentage of 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 



83 



the actual heat value of the fuel is 
realized, and the future will doubtless 
witness great improvement in this di- 
rection. At present a number of new 
devices are on the market, of which 
one of the most notable is the under- 
feed system. This furnace is so con- 
structed that the fuel is deposited in 
a chamber below the fire box, where 
it is gradually warmed before being 
forced from below by means of a 
lever into the fire box. Thus the heat 
is saved which is wasted in other types 
of furnaces by raising the tempera- 
ture of cold fuel thrown directly upon 
the blaze, and less fuel is consumed 
to produce a given increase of tem- 
perature. There is also less unneces- 
sary combustion. The difference may 
be illustrated by the burning of two 
candles, one right side up and the 
other upside down. The former con- 



The saving in the use of these devices 
would far exceed the difference in the 
first cost, even if they were much 




"An Inevitable Waste." 

sumes no more fuel than is necessary; 
the latter produces an inevitable waste. 

Another device consists in a perfo- 
rated plate of metal, placed across 
the fire box so that the flame is broken 
up into a large number of small jets 
of burning gas. The plate also be- 
comes exceedingly hot and thus assists 
the combustion of the gases. 

Other important devices are means 
to prevent heat from being wasted by 
radiation in the cellar or basement or 
by escaping up the chimney. The in- 
direct-draught furnace contains a de- 
vice which causes the heated products 
of combustion to circulate in such a 
way, before going up the chimney, as 
to heat every part of the furnace. 




" Hot-water Radiation." 

more expensive than other types of 
heating apparatus, which is not neces- 
sarily the case. Hence, their univer- 
sal use is to be recommended. 

Steam and Hot-water Heating Sys- 
tems. — The first cost of installing a 
steam or hot-water system is consid- 
erable, and both require a good deal 
of care to produce satisfactory results. 
They also demand some provision for 
ventilation, which is an additional ex- 
pense. Both steam heat and hot wa- 
ter are difficult to adjust to sudden 
changes of temperature. In mild 
weather, steam heat is not economical, 
because the furnace must be kept hot 
enough to boU water in order to pro- 
duce any steam at all, and hot-water 
heat is inconvenient, since, if the 
weather becomes suddenly mild when 
the pipes are filled with hot water, the 
house will be too warm. On the other 
hand, if the water is allowed to cool 
and the temperature again changes, 
considerable time is required in either 
system to reheat the boiler. 

Thermostat. — The most satisfactory 
results with the steam and hot-water 
systems are obtained by the installa- 
tion of the thermostat, an instrument 
which can be adjusted at any given 
temperature, so that if the heat falls 
below this standard the furnace 
draught will be automatically opened ; 
if it rises above, the furnace draught 
will be closed. Thus a uniform tem- 
perature can be maintained with the 
least possible attention. 



84 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



The Ideal System. — Probably the 
ideal system of heating is the so-called 
vacuum steam system, by which a par- 
tial vacuum is formed in the steam 




"It the Heat Falls . . . the DraugU Opens." 

pipes. Thus, steam may be produced 
in the pipes at a temperature below 
212°. An attachment, known as the 
automatic vacuum valve, which pro- 
duces a similar effect, can be supplied 
to ordinary steam radiators. Prob- 
ably, then, an underfeed, indirect- 
draught furnace with a system of 
ventilation and a suitable thermostat, 
while somewhat expensive to install, 
would give the most perfect and sat- 
isfactory results. 

Hot-air Systems. — The advantages 
of the hot-air system of heating, after 
the first cost of installation, are that 
it does not require a supplementary 
system of ventilation, can be easily 
cared for, and readily adjusted to 
changes in temperature. The disad- 
vantages oftenest complained of are 
the dust and gases that sometimes rise 
from the register, the difficulty caused 
by high winds blowing into the cold- 
air boxes, and dryness of the atmos- 
phere caused by delivering the heated 
air at too high a temperature. But 
these disadvantages may be overcome 



by proper construction and installa- 
tion. 

To Prevent Dust. — Dust may tind 
its way either from above or from 
below into the stream of warm air 
that rises from the register. To pre- 
vent its rise from below, the outer 
opening of the cold-ajr box may be 
screened with cheese cloth or other 
thin fabric, and over the seams of the 
cold-air box and flues may be placed 
a metal protector with tightly soldered 
joints. Thus the gases and any foul 
air that may be in the cellar will be 
excluded from the draught, and the 
supply of air coming in from out of 
doors win be fresh and pure as well 
as warm. To prevent dust from en- 
tering the flue from above, the regis- 
ters should be closed while sweeping 
and should be removed each day after 
sweeping and dusted out of the win- 
dow ; one or more thicknesses of cheese 
cloth or netting should be stretched 
under the register and across the flue 
so as to screen the current of air as 
it rises. Registers set in the wall 
naturally receive less dust from sweep- 
ing than floor registers do. They also 
give the warm air a somewhat better 
circulation. 

How to Regulate Hot Air. — Hot 
air is a misnomer. Overheated air 
is detrimental to health and also in- 
jurious to woodwork and furniture. 
The term " warm air " is preferred by 
most authorities, and the best results 
are secured by having a relatively 
large furnace that, by delivering a 
large quantity of air at a moderate 
temperature, will heat the house com- 
fortably in the coldest weather. The 
air should not be delivered at a tem- 
perature greater than 120°, and under 
no circumstance should the fires be 
allowed to rage until the fire box is 
red hot. 

To Overcome Dryness. — The dry- 
ness of the atmosphere caused by the 
warm-air furnace may be overcome 
by keeping a supply of water in the 
receptacle usually furnished for that 
purpose inside the jacket of the fur- 
nace; or by hanging a small tin pail 
of galvanized iron from a hook below 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 



85 



one or more of the registers in the 
room, so that the current of air there- 
from will receive a small amount of 
moisture. 

Hot Air — To Prevent Waste. — A 
great saving can be effected by casing 
the jacket of the furnace and the 
hot-air pipes with several thicknesses 
of asbestos paper to prevent direct 
radiation in the basement. Heat 
which would otherwise be wasted may 
also be utilized by the addition of a 
hot-water attachment. This combina- 
tion of the hot-air and hot-water sys- 
tems affords, perhaps, the greatest 




"The Same Flue Will Serve Two Registers. 



possible economy in fuel. The hot- 
water piping may be us'ed in distrib- 
uting the heat to any parts of the 
house not equipped with the hot-air 
system. When possible, the hot-air 
flues should be so adjusted that the 
same flue will serve two or more reg- 
isters. Thus, by closing the register 
in the lower rooms, the heat can be 



diverted through the same flue to "the 
upper part of the house, with the least 
possible number of pipes and waste 
of heat. 

The Prankliu Stove. — The cele- 
brated device invented in 1782 by 
Benjamin Franklin, and called by him 
the " Pennsylvania fireplace," is still 
in some respects the most satisfactory 
contrivance in existence for heating 
individual rooms. Oddly enough, ia 
modern stoves of this pattern a prin- 
cipal feature of Franklin's invention 
has been neglected. The Franklin 
stove had an air chamber behind the 
grate, communicating with the outer 
air through a pipe passing beneath 
the hearth ; by this means a current of 
pure, warm air was admitted to the 
room for ventilation. If this device 
could be revived and widely adver- 
tised, there is no doubt that its supe- 
rior advantages would be generally 
recognized. The modern Franklin 
stove is similar to an ordinary closed 
stove except for its open hearth. It 
combines the cheerful open grate of 
a fireplace with economy of the heat 
lost in a fireplace by passing up the 
chimney. The Franklin stove can be 
connected by means of stovepipe with 
an ordinary flue. 

Closed Stoves. — Closed stoves burn- 
ing coal, oil, or gas as fuel are, of 
course, in very general use for heat- 
ing individual apartments. Of these, 
the coal stove has the very decided 
advantage that the products of com- 
bustion pass through the stovepipes 
into the chimney, whereas both gas 
and oil stoves vitiate the air with car- 
bonic-acid gas and other injurious 
substances. For this reason, gas logs 
and gas grates should not be used ex- 
cept immediately under a. chimney 
flue, nor should small gas stoves or 
oil stoves be used in living rooms 
or bedchambers without abundant ven- 
tilation. 

Open Grates. — The old-fashioned 
open fireplace is the most cheerful 
and sanitary means of heating, and 
would be by all means to be preferred 
were it not that so much of the heat 
escapes up the chimney. It has been 



86 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



estimated that only 5 per cent of 
it is thrown into the room. A re- 
cent invention known as the venti- 
lating grate overcomes this difficulty. 
This is an open furnace, to which 
fresh outdoor air is introduced by 
pipes which pass below the hearth and 
are heated by circulating around the 
grate, and flues through which the 
products of combustion escape. The 
pure air thus warmed is admitted into 
the rooms through registers. By a 
suitable arrangement of the flues, the 
warm air from the ventilating grate 
can be distributed through the walls 
to adjacent or upper rooms, and thus 
two or more of these grates can heat 
a house of six or eight rooms at less 
cost than a furnace. 

Open fireplaces may also be profit- 
ably utilized for supplementary heat 
in connection with different systems, 
as they afford the most perfect system 
of ventilation obtainable. 

Economy of Stove Heat. — The heat 
from an ordinary stove or a Franklin 
stove may be economized and utilized 
in upper rooms by adjusting a mod- 
ern drum radiator to the stovepipe. 
A number of small tubes within the 
drum absorb the heat and radiate it 
into the apartment. The open flames 
of lamps and gas jets also give a good 
deal of heat which can be utilized by 
equipping them with small detachable 
radiators that operate on the same 
principle. 

Gasoline Stoves. — Those who have 
generator gasoline stoves often com- 
plain that the gasoline smokes and 
ruins wall paper. To avoid this gen- 
erate the fire with wood alcohol. Keep 
the alcohol in » glass bottle holding 
about a quart. Or a machine-oil can 
holding about a pint will be found 
convenient. If the latter is used, a 
piece of cork should be inserted in 
the end of the spout to keep the gaso- 
line from evaporating. Or use a piece 
of Irish potato for this purpose. 

Pour a little alcohol in the gen- 
erator cup, and light it the same as 
gaspline. 

Gas Stoves. — These are of two sorts, 
adapted for heating and cooking re- 



spectively. Gas stoves for heating 
may be obtained in a variety of sizes, 
from small cylinders to large-sized 
stoves of the radiator pattern. These 
are cleanly, cheap, and efficient, and 
have nothing about them to get out 
of order. Gas stoves for cooking may 
be had in all sizes, from the one- 
burner stove of the hot-plate type, 
costing about $1, to the gas kitchen 
range, ranging in price up to $50. 
The average type is a two-oven range 
that will broil, roast, or bake, and can 
be fitted with laundry conveniences. 
The standard size has two 16- or 18- 
inch ovens, and is provided on top 
with one double and three single burn- 
ers. These are equal to every require- 
ment of a complete kitchen range, and 




"Demonstrate Superiority in Summer.' 



unlike the latter have no fire brick to 
burn out, or other parts likely to be- 
come warped, cracked, or injured. A 
gas range has every possibility of 
service of a coal range except heat- 
ing, but of course demonstrates its 
greatest superiority in the summer 
months, when cooking can be done 
with a minimum of heat and fuel con- 
sumption. 

The temperature of a gas oven can 
always be accurately gauged, and it is 
possible to have a slow fire and a hot 
fire at the same time, on differeht 
parts of the gas range, which is im- 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 87 



possible with a coal range. Further, 
a gas range is always clean, requires 
no blacking, kindling, or carrying of 
coal, removal of ashes, and similar 
nuisances. 

Gas Water Heaters. — A gas water- 
heating appliance attached to an or- 
dinary kitchen boiler will consume 
about thirty feet of gas in an hour 
for a thirty-gallon boiler, or forty to 
forty-five feet for a sixty- to eighty- 
gallon boiler. A smaller quantity of 
hot water for ordinary household pur- 
poses can be heated in ten or fifteen 
minutes at a cost of less than one 
cent. A similar appliance may be put 
into the bathroom, which would heat 
water sufficient for a bath at a cost 
of from two to three cents. This is 
an ideal summer arrangement. But 
care must be taken that accidents do 
not occur with these, by persons lock- 
ing the bathroom door and being over- 
come by the gas. 

CHIMNEYS AND FLUES 

Chimneys have a twofold object — 
to remove the smoke and gases pro- 
duced by combustion, and to produce 
a draught to increase the rate of com- 
bustion. They were first introduced 
in Europe about the twelfth century. 
The first chimney in Rome was built 
in 1368. Chimneys did not come into 
general use in Europe until the seven- 
teenth century. Formerly — and to this 
day in many parts of the world — fires 
were built on stone or earthen hearths 
in the center of the room, the prod- 
ucts of combustion being allowed to 
escape through a hole in the middle 
of the roof. 

The draught produced by a chimney 
depends upon its height and propor- 
tions. The higher the chimney, the 
better the draught. The flue should 
be about one fifth or one sixth the 
area of the grate. 

Chimneys are the best of ventila- 
tors, hence there should be one or 
more extending from the bottom of 
the cellar and opening by means of 
suitable flues and fireplaces into every 
living room in the house. 



To Prevent Dampness in Chimneys. 
— Let the chimney start from the bot- 
tom of the cellar, or, if built at the 
side of the house, from the foundation 
wall, and rest on a flat stone laid in 
water cement. This will prevent the 
bricks from absorbing moisture. A 
chimney resting on a foundation in 
the upper part of the house may ac- 
cumulate water during a rain storm, 
which will . saturate the bricks and 
communicate dampness to adjacent 
walls. 

Chimneys — To Prevent Soot. — Mix 
salt freely with the mortar in which 
the bricks on the inside of a chimney 
are laid. This will cause them to at- 
tract moisture in damp weather, which 
will loosen the soot and cause it to 
fall. It wiU also prevent the chimney 
from becoming infested with chimney 
swallows. 

To Ventilate Chimneys. — An open 
fireplace communicating with the chim- 
ney is an ideal ventilator; or a chim- 
ney may be built double, having two 
columns side by side or one within 
the other, one being reserved for ven- 
tilation and communicating with each 
room through an opening in the ceiling. 

Or a double chimney may have one 
column within the other, the air space 
between the two being connected with 
the rooms by ventilators. 

Chimneys — To Prevent Smoke. — 
Build a long, narrow flue 4 or 5 inches 
deep and IS to 18 inches wide, thus 
having an opening of 60 to 90 square 
inches. Let the flue open into an air 
chamber in the chimney of twice its 
size, i. e., an area of 130 to 180 square 
inches or 11 to 16 inches square, but 
this may be reduced toward the top 
of the chimney if desired. Carry the 
chimney as high above the roof as 
good taste will permit, and let the 
flue approach the chimney at an angle, 
or, if possible, by a number of turns. 
Usually the more crooked the flue the 
better the draught. A straight fun- 
nel does not usually draw well. 

To Cure a Smoky Chimney. — First 
note the cause. Either too much air 
is admitted below, or the draught is 
insufficient, or the wind blows down 



88 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



into the chimney from above. Hence, 
according to circumstances, contract 
the draught by narrowing the entrance 
to the grate or fireplace, or increase 
the height or crookedness of the flue 
and shaft, or place on the top of the 
chimney a wind shield or turn cap, 
which will revolve with the wind in 
such a way as to prevent the gusts 
from blowing down the chimney. 

The draught is caused by the fact 
that hot air rises and tends to create 
a vacuum, which by suction draws 
cold air after it. Hence, anything 
that chills the column of air in the 
chimney tends to check the draught. 
Therefore avoid admitting, across the 
top of the fire in a grate or fireplace, 
enough cold air to cool the flue. The 
fire should be located in such relation 
to the flue that the rising current of 
hot air will have the right of way and 
tend to fill the flue, to the exclusion 
of the cold air of the room; thus the 
latter will be sucked up through the 
fire itself, assisting the combustion 
and strengthening the draught. 

To Kindle Fires without Smoke. — 
To start a draught without smoke, on 
kindling a fire in an open grate when 
the air in the chimney is cold and the 
first flame is feeble, use a sufficient 
quantity of very combustible sub- 
stances, as kindlings, to create flames. 
These will heat the air in the chimney 
before cold or solid fuel is added, 
which burns less perfectly. 

Or reduce the opening to the grate 
or fireplace by means of a blower or 
light screen lined with asbestos and 
placed across the opening so as to 
admit air only in the required quan- 
tity and beneath the grate. 

To Prevent Smoke. — A hot fire will 
consume its own smoke. Hence, to 
prevent the formation of smoke, heat 
a hot bed of coals and add fresh fuel 
in such limited quantity as not to 
lower the heat of the fire below the 
smoke-consuming point. Push the 
coals back and put on fresh fuel so 
that the smoke will pass over the bed 
of live coals, where it will be con- 
sumed. 

Or adjust a wire screen having 



forty or more wires to the inch, to 
prevent the escape of smoke. 

To Glean Chimneys. — Prepare a bed 
of hot coals in the stove, throw open 
the draughts and dampers, and throw 
on the coals some pieces of old zinc, 
as the zinc from an old washboard. 
This will clean out all soot from the 
chimney. 

Or the chimney may be swept if the 
shaft is straight by attaching a heavy 
stone or other weight to the butt of 
a small pine or hemlock sapling and 
fastening a rope to its upper part. 
The weight will carry the sapling 
down the chimney, and when it is 
dragged back the extending branches 
will sweep clean the soot. Care must 
be taken to use a rope sufficiently 
strong and a sapling not too large, so 
as to prevent the rope from parting 
or the brush from lodging in the shaft. 

To Stop Leaks In Chimneys. — Make 
a cement of coal tar and sand, and 
apply as may be convenient within or 
without. 

To Put Out Fires in Chimneys. — 
Throw sulphur on the fire so that the 
fumes wiU ascend the flue. Take pre- 
cautions not to breathe the fumes of 
burning sulphur. 

Or ascend to the roof and throw 
salt down the chimney. Or shut off 
the draught from below if possible by 
covering the opening to the fireplace 
with wet blankets or otherwise. Or, if 
the fire is not too strong, put a tight 
cover over the top of the diimney. 

FIBE EXTINGTTISHEBit AND FIBE 
ESCAPES 

To Extinguish Fires. — ^The objects 
to be attained in putting out fire are 
principally two: to cut off its source 
of supply in the oxygen of the air, 
and to lower the temperature of the 
burning substances below the point of 
combustion. Drenching the burning 
parts with water accomplishes both 
objects. It prevents the access of air 
and chills the burning parts. 

A heavy woolen cloth thrown over 
or wrapped about burning objects 
smothers the fire by shutting off the 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 



89 



air, and if wet, also assists by lower- 
ing the temperature. 

Chemical Are extinguishers produce 
noninfiammable gas, as carbon dioxide, 
which flows over the burning parts the 
same as water, temporarily shutting 
off the supply of air; hence the fol- 
lowing suggestions for extinguishing 
fires; 

Close the doors and windows to pre- 
vent draughts. Seize the burning ob- 
jects if small and movable, as lamps, 
curtains, and the like, and throw them 
out of the window, or wrap them in 
rugs or woolen table covers or bed 
covers. 

Or, if solid, heavy objects are on 
fire, seize a woolen blanket or other 
heavy woolen article, and if possible 
beat out the flames. If a small quan- 
tity of water is at hand, dip the 
woolen cloth into it and beat the fire 
with that. A single pail of water will 
go further if soaked up in a blanket 
than if dashed directly on the flames. 

Or, if plenty of water is at hand, 
dip a mop in it and beat the flames, 
or dash it on the fire in small quanti- 
ties from a dipper, directing it in- 
telligently to cover as much space as 
possible. 

To Put Out Burning Garments.^- 
If it person's clothing takes fire, he 
should be rolled up in a woolen rug, 
overcoat, table cover, or blanket to 
smother the fire. 

Or, if alone, he should roU himself 
up in one of these articles as quickly 
as possible; roll over and over on the 
floor or bed; or tear up the carpet 
and roll up in that. 

To Extinguish Fire with Chemicals. 
— To make a chemical fire extinguish- 
er, prepare a mixture of substances 
that will produce carbonic-acid gas in 
the presence of water, and arrange so 
that a stream of mingled gas and 
water will be thrown upon the flames 
by the expansive power of the gas. 
This is the celebrated patent of Will- 
iam A. Graham of Lexington, Va., 
that was contested during nearly fifty 
years in the United States courts. It 
is the principle of most chemical fire 
extinguishers now upon the market. 



The substances most commonly 
mixed to produce carbonic-acid gas 
are common soda and sulphuric acid, 
or oil of vitriol. Numerous practical 
devices have been patented for stor- 
ing these two, or other substances, in 
a suitable receptacle side by side, but 




" The Celebrated Patent of Graham." 

so arranged that they will not mingle 
until wanted. Then, by turning the 
receptacle upside down, or turning 
a stopcock, the acid is precipitated 
into a solution of bicarbonate of soda 
in water and the water is thereby 
charged with carbonic-acid gas, which, 
by its expansive power, ejects the 
stream of mingled gas and water 
through a, flexible rubber tube and a 
nozzle. 

One device consists of a tank or jar 
containing a strong solution of bicar- 
bonate of soda or common baking 
soda in water in which is immersed a 



90 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



tightly stoppered bottle containing oil 
of vitriol. The stopper of the bottle 
may be pulled out by means of a wire 
running through the cover of the tank, 
thus allowing the acid to mingle with 
the soda solution and produce car- 
bonic-acid gas. To imitate this device, 
take an old milk can or a five-gallon 
oil can and have a tinsmith fit it with 
a screw top and a stopcock fitted with 
a flexible rubber tube and a nozzle. 
Plain rubber tubing or flexible gas 
pipe is suitable for this purpose. The 
longer, the better. Fasten to the re- 
movable screw top by means of wire 
a glass bottle containing sulphuric 
acid and having a glass stopper. Fas- 
ten another wire about the neck of 
this stopper, let it protrude through 
the cover, and end in a ring. by means 
of which the stopper may be with- 
drawn. But care must be taken to use 
wires strong enough so that, should 
the stopper stick, the bottle may be 
broken off if need be without remov- 
ing the screw top of the can. When 
required, carry the extinguisher to the 
vicinity of the fire, pull out the stop- 
per, and shake the can to mix the oil, 
and soda solution. Turn the stop- 
cock and direct the resulting stream 
of water charged with carbonic-acid 
gas upon the flame. 

Or an ordinary pair of pliers or 
nippers used to handle wire may be 
set in the screw top of the can to hold 
the neck of the bottle of acid between 
their teeth. Then by closing the han- 
dle of the nippers the neck of the vial 
may be broken, allowing the acid to 
drop into the soda solution. This 
should be a little below the mouth of 
the can, so that the pliers themselves 
will not be immersed. They may be 
protected from rust by coating with 
rust-proof varnish. 

Or get a cylinder or pipe of tin, 
zinc, or other suitable material, and 
by means of a perforated partition 
near one end divide into two com- 
partments, one much larger than the 
other. Fit the opposite end with a 
stopcock, a flexible tube, and a nozzle. 
The larger compartment contains the 
solution of bicarbonate of soda in 



water; the smaller contains sulphuric 
acid in the form of a dry powder or 
crystals too coarse to pass through 
the perforations in the partition. This 
cylinder when not in use must, of 
course, be kept upright so that the 
soda solution will not come in contact 
vrith the acid; when required for use 
it must be inverted, the soda solution 
will then fall through the perforations 
upon the dry acid, and the mixture 
will produce carbonic-acid gas. 

Or the partition may be operated 
by means of a plunger which will 
knock it out of the way so that the 
dry soda will fall into the soda solu- 
tion. Any tinsmith or person of me- 
chanical ingenuity can construct at a 
vei-y nominal cost either of these de- 
vices and charge it with the same ma- 
terials as are used in the most expen- 
sive fire extinguisher upon the market. 
But take care to use a strong recep- 
tacle or to open the stopcock so as to 
give the mixture a vent by means of 
a suitable tube and nozzle as soon as 
the acid and the soda solution are 
brought into combination. This will 
prevent an explosion. Take care also 
to combine the materials in the right 
proportion. 

The proportions in which sulphuric 
acid and bicarbonate of soda unite to 
form carbonic-acid gas are S parts of 
sulphuric acid and 6 parts of bicar- 
bonate of soda (which is ordinary 
baking soda), by weight. Commercial 
bicarbonate of soda requires 13 times 
its weight of water to fully dissolve 
it. Hence a sufficiently large recep- 
tacle would require 6 pounds of bak- 
ing soda dissolved in 78 pounds of 
water and S pounds of sulphuric acid 
so arranged as to be poured into the 
soda solution when required. 

To fill a smaller tank in the same 
proportions, place the tank on the 
scales and note its weight. Now fill 
about two thirds or more with water. 
Note the total weight and subtract 
the weight of the tank. Divide this 
amount expressed in pounds by 13, 
and the result will be the number of 
pounds of soda required. The weight 
of acid required will be five sixths the 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 91 



\veight of the soda. Dissolve the 
soda in the water and place the siJ- 
phuric acid in a glass bottle so ar- 
ranged that when required for use 
the bottle may be turned over by a 
crank or otherwise and the acid 
spilled into the charge of soda water. 
Carbonic-acid gas will be generated 
at once under strong enough pressure 
to force the whole contents with con- 
siderable power through a nozzle di- 
rected against the fire. 

Or dissolve copperas or ferrous 
sulphate, 5 parts; ammonium' sul- 
phate, 20 parts, in water, 125 parts. 

Or dissolve in 75 parts water, cal- 
cium chloride, 20 parts; salt, 5 parts. 

The two last may be kept conveni- 
ently at hand for use with a hand 
pump. 

Hand Fire Extinguisher. — Another 
device consists of a mixture of suit- 
able substances combined in a glass 
vessel, which must be thrown upon the 
fire with sufficient force to break the 
glass. To make hand grenades or fire 
extinguishers of this sort take pint or 
quart fruit jars or any large bottles 
,and charge them with a mixture of 
equal parts of sugar of lead, alum, 
and common salt, dissolved in water. 
Keep these tightly corked in various 
parts of the house. To extinguish a 
fire throw one or more of these bot- 
tles into or just above the burning 
parts, so that the liquid will fall upon 
the wood or flames. 

Or charge these bottles with a mix- 
ture made of 2 pounds of common 
salt, 1 pound of muriate of ammonia, 
and 3 quarts of water. Dissolve, bot- 
tle, cork, and keep at hand in various 
parts of the house for emergency. 
Throw the bottles into the fire with 
force enough to break them. 

Or dissolve pearlash, soda, wood 
ashes, or common salt in the water 
which is being dashed upon the flames 
from pails or pitchers, or in which 
are soaked cloths to beat out the 
flames. 

Fire Extinguisher Hand Grenades. 
— Fill round bottles of thin blue glass 
with a mixture of equal parts of com- 
mon borax and sal ammoniac or cal- 



cium chloride. Add, just enough 
water to dissolve these substances, 
thus making strong saturated solu- 
tions. 

Fire Drills. — Boys should be en- 
couraged to prepare, under proper 
supervision, one or more of these fire 
extinguishers, and practice with them 
in putting out fires made out of doors 
for this purpose. A few experiments 
will insure that the directions have 
been understood, and will give valu- 
able practice as a sort of fire drill in 
advance of the emergency, as there is 
always danger of fire, whether from 
lightning or other cause, in isolated 
farmhouses and other buildings, not 
within reach, as in cities, of a fire de- 
partment. A conflagration may not 
only destroy the results of the labor 
of a lifetime, but also lead to loss of 
life from the flames or from conse- 
quent exposure in severe weather. 
Hence the importance of such prepa- 
ration can hardly be overestimated, 
especially when it can be done at very 
little expense. Moreover, such experi- 
ments have an important educational 
influence. 

To Extinguish Kerosene Fire. — Do 
not throw water on the flames of 
burning kerosene, gasoline, benzine, 
naphtha, or other petroleum products. 
The water wiU spread the flames and 
not put them out. Instead use milk, 
which forms an emulsion with the oil 
and extinguishes it. 

Fire Escapes. — ^You may remember 
Mark Twain's story of the " poor 
white " in Arkansas whose roof leaked 
so badly that the bed in which he 
slept was wet by every storm. When 
asked why he did not mend the roof, 
he replied that he could not do so when 
it rained without getting wet, and 
when the weather was fair it was not 
necessary. 

That is the attitude of many per- 
sons in regard to fire escapes. Suit- 
able provision for escape from attics, 
chambers, and other upper rooms is 
rarely thought of, except in the actual 
moment of danger, when stairways 
may be choked with smoke and flames. 
Many persons have escaped from up- 



92 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



per -windows of cottages and other 
low dwellings by knotting sheets and 
other bed covers together to form a 
strong rope, fastening one end to the 
bedpost, and sliding down this to the 
ground. This plan should be talked 
over in the family circle so as to be 




"Suitable Provisions for Escape. 



clearly miderstood by children and 
others in case of emergency. 

Or, if the rooms are too high from 
the ground to admit of this mode of 
escape, fasten a strong iron hook to 
the window casing, and have at hand 
a knotted rope long enough to reach 
to the ground. 

Or, if this is not to be had, the bed 
may be thrown out of the window to 
assist in breaking the shock, and the 
person may make a rope of the bed 
covers and slide down as far as pos- 
sible before dropping on the bed. A 
skylight should be cut in the ^oof of 
every dwelling and a permanent lad- 
der fixed to give access to this, and 
also from thence to the edge of the 
roof and to the ground. This will 
admit of escape if the staircase should 
take fire and fall. 



To Escape from Fires. — As the 
heated air, smoke, and noxious gases 
produced by combustion tend to rise, 
the purest air is next the floor. Hence, 
in escaping from fires, creep or crawl 
with the face near the floor. If time 
admits, a handkerchief or other thin 
cloth dipped in water and held over 
the nostrils will to some extent pre- 
vent drawing smoke into the lungs. 
Bystanders may assist in the escape 
of persons who are obliged to jump by 
holding a horse blanket or other large, 
stroilg cloth or canvas to receive 
them. The larger the cloth, the more 
persons holding it, and the higher it 
is held from the ground, the better. 

FISEPEOOFING AHD WATEE- 
PBOOFING 

To Prevent Fires. — The following 
substances are recommended for fire- 
proofing cloth and other materials: 
Alum, borax, vitriol, copperas, sul- 
phate of ammonia, soluble glass, tung- 
state of soda, and phosphate of am- 
monia; also various combinations and 
preparations of these. 

To Fireproof Cloth. — Mix equal 
quantities of alum, borax, and vitriol, 
or copperas ; dissolve with boiling wa- 
ter or a thin size made by melting an 
ounce of glue or gum arable in a 
gallon of water. Use no more water 
than is necessary to dissolve perfectly. 
Dilute the mixture to liquid form and 
soak the fabric in this. This prepara- 
tion is for articles to be used about 
stoves and flames, as holders, fire 
screens, and the like. 

To Fireproof Garments. — Mix tung- 
state of soda with boiled starch, or 
dissolve alum in water, or both. The 
tungstate of soda does not interfere 
with the ironing and is the best sub- 
stance to fireproof children's garments, 
lace curtains, and other light fabrics 
which are in danger of taking fire. 

To Fireproof Fabrics. — ^Dissolve 12 
ounces of borax and 9 ounces of sul- 
phate of magnesia in 5 pounds of 
boiling water. In this immerse the 
fabric when cool. 

Or dip the fabric in soluble gLass, 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFEIGEEATION 



diluted with boiling water to 25° B. 
Hang to drip dry without wringing. 
While still damp, Immerse in a solu- 
tion of 1 pound of sulphate of alu- 
mina and 1 pound of sulphate of 
copper in 10 pounds of water. Dry 
without wringing in the open air. 

To Pireproof Canvas. — To fireproof 
canvas awnings or other coarse mate- 
rials, make a hot solution of 3 parts 
of alum and 1 part of copperais. Im- 
merse the articles three times, letting 
them drip dry between each immer- 
sion. Finally let dry and by means 
of a brush apply a solution of cop- 
peras mixed with pipe clay to the 
consistency of paint. This is a cele- 
brated German recipe. 

To rireproof Wood. — ^To fireproof 
wood impregnate it with alum, borax, 
or copperas, or a mixture of these. 

Or mix 2J pounds sulphate of zinc, 
1 pound of potash, 2 pounds of alum, 
and 1 pound of manganic oxide with 
lukewarm water in an iron kettle. Stir 
and add slowly 1 pound of sulphuric 
acid, 60 per cent pure. Dissolve 
the same proportions by weight for 
larger quantities. To apply, build up 
the pieces of wood corncob fashion, 
and wrap them at their points of junc- 
ture with sufficient wire to keep them 
at least an inch apart. This method ad- 
mits of immersing the greatest quan- 
tity of wood in the smallest bulk of 
liquid. Place the wood thus prepared 
in an old iron sink or tank and pour 
the liquid over it. Allow it to soak 
three or four hours, afterwards to 
drip dry, and season under shade in 
the open air. 

To Waterproof Cloth. — Substances 
recommended for waterproofing cloth 
are alum, acetate of lead (sugar of 
lead), linseed oil, and solutions of 
India rubber, isinglass, and wax in 
turpentine and other solvents, or mix- 
tures of the above in varying propor- 
tions. India rubber and other close 
waterproof fabrics are impervious to 
air as well as moisture ; hence they are 
hot, close, and imcomfortable, besides 
being unhealthful. Ordinary fabrics, 
as wool, linen, or cotton, duck, canvas, 
and the like, may be made waterproof 



by immersing in any of the above mix- 
tures without affecting their porous 
qualities. 

The following methods are recom- 
mended: Dissolve in a wash boiler 1 
ounce of yellow soap in 4 gallons of 
water and bring it to a boil. Allow 
the liquid to cool and when cold im- 
merse the fabric for twenty-four 
hours. Remove without wringing, and 
let it drip till partially dry. While 
still moist immerse it in a solution of 
i pound of alum and J pound of 
sugar of lead in 3 gallons of water. 
Dissolve these substances separately 
each in IJ gallons of water, stir vig- 
orously, and mix the two solutions. 
Soak the fabric in this for three or 
four hours, and hang it up to drip 
dry. When nearly dry it may be 
dipped again if desired. 

Or, for delicate fabrics, allow the 
mixture to settle, pour off the clear 
liquid from the sediment, and immerse 
in this. Fabrics thus treated are par- 
tially fireproof as well as waterproof. 

Or dissolve one pound of alum in 
a gallon of boiling water. Allow the 
liquid to cool and soak the fabric in 
it, but this is not equal to the mixture 
of alum and sugar of lead. 

Or put 5 pounds of sulphate of alu- 
mina in 1§ gallons of water; in a 
separate receptacle dissolve 3 pounds 
of oleic acid and IJ quarts of alcohol. 
Stir vigorously until dissolved. Now 
add the sulphate of alumina in a thin 
stream, mix and allow it to settle for 
twenty-four hours. Pour off the clear 
liquid, which may be discarded. Dry 
the residue with heat, and pulverize. 
Make a solution of this substance at 
the rate of 1 pound to 10 gallons of 
water to waterproof any silk, linen, 
or woolen fabric. Immerse the cloth 
or garment until it is thoroughly sat- 
urated, and afterwards allow it to 
drip dry. 

Or mix 4 ounces of isinglass, 4 
ounces of alum, and 2 ounces of yel- 
low soap, and dissolve in hot water to 
form an emulsion about the consist- 
ency of milk. Apply with a stiff 
brush to the wrong side of the fabric, 
rubbing thoroughly. Remove the ex- 



94 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 




a. Incandescent gas or gasoline gas at 81 per 1,000 ft. costs ic. per hour. Equals breath of 
3 persons; b. Acetylene gas costs |c. per hour. Espials 2 or t persons; c. Kerosene lamp / 
costs %c. Equals 7 or 8 persons; d. Open, flame gas costs |c. Equals 6 persons; e. Electric 
bulb costs He. Consumes no oxygen ; f. Candles cost 6ic. Each candle equals 12 persons. 



cess by sponging with water, or with 
a brush dipped in water, and rub 
smooth with a dry brush. 

Or dissolve pure India rubber and 
turpentine to a thin solution, and ap- 
ply with a brush. Afterwards apply 
a coating of sugar of lead dissolved 
in water. 

To Waterproof and Color Black. — 
Raise to a boil 4 quarts of linseed oil 
and stir in 1 ounce of burnt umber, 
1 ounce of acetate of lead, and 15 
ounces of lampblack. Dry and apply 
a second coat of the same solution, 
leaving out the sugar of lead. AUow 
this to dry and rub it down with a 
stiff bristle brush. Apply a third 
coat if desired. 

Or raise to a boil 4 quarts of lin- 
seed oU. Add 3 ounces of burnt um- 
ber, 3 ounces of sugar of lead, IJ 
ounces of sulphate of zinc, 2 ounces 
of Prussian blue, and IJ ounces of 
verdigris. Stir these into the oU and 
add 10 ounces of lampblack, stirring 
vigorously. Apply with a brush as in 
painting. Two or three coats of 
either of these mixtures should give 
a hard, durable waterproof surface 
of a black color and having a high 
gloss. 

To Waterproof Canvas Tents or 
Awnings. — Mix 8 pounds of white 
lead with one fourth by bulk spirits 
of turpentine. Stir in 1 ounce of su- 
gar of lead and 1 ounce of white 
vitriol. Dilute with boiled linseed oil 
to the consistency of paint. 

First boil the fabric in suds and 



rinse clean. Or scrub with soap and 
water and a stiff brush, afterwards 
applying water with a brush to remove 
all traces of soap. Apply the water- 
proofing with a painter's brush and 
stretch tightly while drjring. 

ABTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION 

Use of Systems of Illumination. — 
Artificial light is the third most im- 
portant of the necessities of civiliza- 
tion, taking rank after the items of 
clothing and shelter. A comparative 
statement of the annual value of illu- 
mination in the United States shows 
the following results: Acetylene (esti- 
mated), about $11,000,000; illumina- 
ting gas, $60,000,000; kerosene, $133,- 
000,000; electricity, $150,000,000; or 
total of $360,000,000, being about $4 
for every man, woman, and child in 
the United States. Probably 10 per 
cent of the light thus generated is 
wasted through misuse and ignorance, 
which would amount to forty cents 
per capita for the entire population 
of the country, or a total of $36,000,- 
000. Including all items pertaining 
to the lighting industry, it is probable 
that the grand total of expenditure 
would reach annually $500,000,000. 

Cost of Lighting Systems. — An av- 
erage period for the burning of arti- 
ficial light per twenty-four houts is 
perhaps from 6 to 10 p.m., or about 
four hours. A careful comparison of 
the cost of different systems of light- 
ing shows that each twenty-four can- 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 95 



die power of light pl-oduced from gas 
at $1 a thousand with a Welsbach 
burner, or from gasoline gas with a 
Welsbach burner, would be § cent for 
four hours, or about $3.46 a ysar; 
the- same candle power produced from 
acetylene would be 1^ for four hours, 
or $6.86 a year; from kerosene, 2g 
cents a day, or $8.76 a year. From 
gas at $1 per thousand without a 
Welsbach burner, 3 cents a day, or 
$10.96 a year; from incandescent elec- 
tric lamps, 5 cents a day, or $18.25 a 
year. But of course allowance must 
be made for varying prices and other 
local conditions. 

Effect of Aitlficial Light on Health. 
— It is not commonly known that most 
ordinary lights vitiate the atmosphere 
of living rooms to a greater extent 
than does the breathing of several per- 
sons. The incandescent electric light 
has a great advantage in this respect, 
as it is inclosed in a vacuum, and so 
consumes no oxygen and gives off very 
•little heat. The next least injurious 
form of lighting is the Welsbach burn- 
er with any iUimiinating gas, which 
consumes about the same amount of 
air as three persons. The ordinary 
gas jet without the Welsbach burner 
vitiates the air about as rapidly as the 
breathing of five persons; the common 
oil lamp, about the same as that of 
eight persons; and the ordinary tal- 
low candle is equal to the breath of 
twelve persons in the amount of at- 
mospheric oxygen it consumes. 

COAL GAS, GASOLIITE GAS, AND 
ACETYLENE 

Gas. — Gas for illuminating purposes 
was invented by William Murdoch in 
1792 at Redrutch, Cornwall, England. 
It was first used in the United States 
in 1806 by David Melville, of Newport, 
R. I. It was introduced in Boston 
in 1822, and in New York the year 
following. Gas is now used for heat- 
ing and cooking as well as for illu- 
minating purposes by upward of half 
the population of the United States. 
As its convenience amd economy be- 
come better known, the number of 



towns and villages to introduce gas 
will no doubt steadily increase. 

Coal gas is made by distilling bitu- 
minous coal with heat in a retort, con- 
densing and separating it from the 
water, vapor of tar, and other solid 
substances, and purifying the result- 
ing product to remove the compounds 
of sulphur and carbonic-acid gas. A 
by-product of this process is coke, 
about one third of which is required 
for heating the retorts; the rest is 
sold. Other by-products are ammonia 
water and coal tar. 

Illuminating gas consists of nearly 
equal parts of hydrogen (which burns 
W'tJi a blue flame, giving heat but no 
light), marsh gas, and other hydro- 
carbons (which burn with a luminous 
flame, but deposit soot if not fully 
consumed), and small quantities of 
carbonic oxide, and nitrogen, which 
are impurities and diminish the illu- 
minating power of the gas. 

Gas, after being purified, is usually 
stored in a cylindrical tank with a 
conical top made of iron plates float- 
ing in a cistern of water. This is so 
arranged to exert a uniform pres- 
sure on the gas equal to that of a 
column of water 6 inches high. The 
pressure serves to distribute the gas 
in the mains. These are usually made 
of cast iron from 24 inches down to 
3 inches in diameter and laid about 3 
feet under ground. The mains are 
connected with the buildings of con- 
sumers by service pipes, which should 
be below the frost line. Otherwise 
they may be closed by hoarfrost 
caused by the freezing of the watery 
vapor contained in the gas. The gas 
is measured by means of a house meter 
before being distributed to all parts 
of the building. 

Gas Meters. — ^The gas meter is not 
constructed like a clock, as the dial 
seems to suggest; hence, contrary to 
common belief, a. gas meter m good 
order cannot run either too fast or 
too slow. The meter is an engine in 
which the gas is the motive power. 
Unless the gas actually passes through 
the meter, the latter does not move. 
The dials mechanically and actually 



96 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



record the number of revolutions in 
cubic feet. The popular notions that 
gas meters are often inaccurate, and 
that an increased pressure or the 
practice of turning on the gas with 
full force when first lighted may malte 
the meter spin faster and record 
against the consumer, are erroneous. 
Of course the meter records all gas 
which passes, including that which is 
wasted as well as that which is used. 
Hence gas jets should be regulated so 
as to prevent " blowing " or the pass- 
ing of unconsumed gas. This regula- 
tion neutralizes the effect of any in- 
crease in the pressure in the gas mains. 
Contrary to common belief, most in- 
juries to a meter work against the 
company. Any apertures caused by 
use in the interior of the meter may 
allow the gas to get through without 
being recorded. Not infrequently the 
valves of a meter become fixed so as 
to let gas through without being reg- 
istered. Hence meters are tested at 
intervals by inspectors, who pass a 
certain number of cubic feet through 
them and note whether or not the dials 
make proper record. 

Amount of Gas Consumed. — Learn 
to read the gas meter and thus note 
what amount of gas is being con- 
sumed. The ordinary flat-flame burner 
should consume 5 or 6 feet of gas an 
hour. If badly adjusted or of faulty 
construction, it may consume 10 to 
IS cubic feet an hour. A Welsbach 
burner uses only about 3 feet an hour. 
A medium-sized two-oven range with 
all burners lighted consumes about 60 
feet an hour. A gas cylinder stove 
about 24 feet an hour. At least once 
a month make a test by reading the 
gas meter in the morning, noting care- 
fully the time each burner is lighted, 
and again reading the gas meter at 
night. If the quantity consumed is 
greatly in excess of the above figures 
it indicates that the burners are poor- 
ly adjusted. In that case notify the 
gas company, whose duty it is to regu- 
late the burners, and to keep them in 
order. Gas is the most economical of 
fuels if used with intelligence and 
care. 



To Burn Gas. — There are a right 
way and a wrong way to burn gas. 
In other words the illumination ob- 
tained from the gas burned depends 




j'A* trp ^FT. tip: 

"A Right Way and a Wrong Way." 

upon perfect combustion at the burner 
tip. And this combustion cannot take 
place unless the tip itself is in good 
condition. 

The picture on the left shows a, 5- 
foot tip ; the shape of the flame is f uU 
and regular, giving the fullest illu- 
minating power of the gas consumed. 
On the other hand, the picture on the 
right shows a 3-foot tip burning 5 feet 
of gas per hour and giving poor light; 
the flame is irregular and the com- 
bustion imperfect, due to the use of 
a burner tip not designed to burn 
over 3 cubic feet. 

It is obvious, then, that it is highly 
important to see that the burners and 
tips are intelligently selected and that 
they are kept in good condition, if 
gas is to be used economically, and 
the full illuminating power of the gas 
consumed obtained. 

To Read the Gas Meter. — ^The fig- 
ures on the index at the right hand 
denote even hundreds. When the hand 
completes the entire circle it denotes 




.10 000 1000 riooTiACM 

" The Figures on the Index." 

ten hundred, and is registered by the 
hand in the center circle pointing to 
1; each figure in the center circle de- 
notes a thousand, this entire circle 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 97 



being ten thousand, which is registered 
at 1 on the index of the left-hand 
circle by the hand, each figure there 
denoting ten thousand. 

The quantity of gas which passes 
through the meter is ascertained by 
reading from the index at the time 
the amount is required to be known, 
and deducting therefrom the quantity 
shown by the index at a previous ob- 
servation. 

If the whole is registered by 
the hands on the three circles 
above, it indicates 49,900 

Amount at previous observa- 
tion, as shown by the dotted 
lines 42,500 

Amount which passed through 
since last taken off 7,400 

The register at all times shows the 
quantity that has passed through since 
the meter was first set. Deducting 
from this the amount that has been 
paid for (without any regard to the 
time when), the remainder shows what 
is impaid. 

Or, in different words, the dial on 
the right hand (marked 1,000) indi- 
cates 100 feet from one figure to the 
next. I The middle dial (marked 10,- 
000) indicates 1,000 feet from one 
figure to the next. The dial on the 
left (marked 100,000) indicates 10,000 
feet from one figure to the next. 

If the hand on the right-hand dial 
is between the figures 2 and 4, the 
lesser of the two numbers is read, the 
index reading 200 feet. If the hand 
on the middle dial is between 1 and 0, 
this dial reads 3,000 feet. If the hand 
on the left-hand dial is between and 
6, the reading of this dial is 60,000 
feet. The complete index as indicated 
on the three dials reads 63,200 feet. 

At f 1 per thousand feet, the hand 
on the right-hand dial passing from 
the zero point to the figure 1, would 
indicate that ten cents' worth of gas 
has been registered on the meter. This 
hand would have to make one entire 
revolution of this dial and reach the 
zero point again to register $1 worth 



of gas, and the hand on the middle 
dial will have moved just one point, 
or from the ^ero point to the figure 
1, indicating the 1,000 feet of gas 
which has been registered in hundreds 
on the right-hand dial. 

The small (2-foot) dial which is on 
the face of the consumer's meter is 
not read except for testing purposes, 
and registers only two feet of gas for 
each revolution of the hand. 

Shades and Chimneys. — ^The use of 
shades and chimneys causes a very 
considerable loss of light on account 
of the conversion of the light from 
flame into heat. The loss from a clear 
glass is 10 per cent or 11 per cent, 
from ground glass about 30 per cent, 
opal glass over 50 per cent, orange- 
colored glass about 36 per cent, pur- 
ple, ruby, or green, over 80 per cent, 
or. transparent porcelain over 95 per 
cent. Hence care should be used 
that the kind of shade or chimney 
employed does not interpose to cut 
off the direct rays of light upon the 
objects to be illimiinated. The Ar- 
gand chimneys are of two kinds: the 
straight and the bulb varieties. Of 
these the straight variety is to be 
preferred. 

Gas Burners. — Gas burners are of 
three kinds: the common bat-wing 
burner with a slit, the fish-tail with 
two oblique holes facing each other, 
and the Argand, a circular burner 
with a ring of small holes, a glass 
chimney, and an interior supply of air. 
In addition to these are the Welsbach 
burner having a fiber cap, and the 
Bunsen burner, used for heating in 
chemical laboratories. 

Burners are constructed in vary^ 
ing sizes to burn 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 
cubic feet of gas per hour, accord- 
ing to the size of the fiame when 
turned on full. Under equal condi- 
tions the larger burners are more 
economical than the smaller. That is, 
a burner which consumes 4 feet of gas 
gives twice as much light as two 
burners that consume each 3 feet. 
Hence there is great economy in the 
use of a few large burners over many 
small ones. 



98 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Pressure of Gas. — Gas is frequently 
supplied at a much higher pressure 
than is necessary to give the best re- 
sults. Hence if the jet is turned on 
full some of the gas will escape, caus- 
ing the well-known "blowing" noise. 



"A 




\\\\i /^\ 1//// 




Burners in Varying Sizes." 



To prevent this, always on lighting 
the jet turn the stopcock backward 
as much as possible without percep- 
tibly decreasing the light. This prac- 
tice alone, if adhered to, will make a 
very important difference in the con- 
sumption of gas. 

Or the gas may be partially turned 
off at the meter, or a check can be 
introduced into the burner. One of 
the best checks is to screw a burner 




a. " One of the 
Best Checks." 



b. "Different Types 
of Burners." 



intended to consume 5 or 6 feet of gas 
an hour over a ■ 3- or 4- foot burner. 
A low pressure with a burner which 
secures a supply of air just enough 



to prevent smoking gives a maximum 
amount of light. 

A Welsbach burner having a cap or 
mantle constructed on the well-known 
principle of the miner's safety lamp 
consumes from 3 to 34 feet of gas an 
hour and gives about 60 candle power, 
as against the 16 candle power of the 
ordinary electric light bulb. In a 
well-regulated Welsbach burner there 
should be no smoke. The blackening 
of the mantle is caused by the im- 
proper adjustment of the air shutter 
and consequent clogging of the wire 
gauze or air holes in the burner which 
produces an improper mixture of gas 
and air. 

To prevent the heat of the Welsbach 
light from discoloring the ceiling, put 
a mica dome over it. This is made to 
fit into or clamp to the top of the 
lamp chimney. Or suspend a glass 
smoke bell from the ceiling. If Wels- 
bach lights, after being used for a 
month or two, become dim, probably 
the wire gauze of the burner is rusted 
or dirty. It should be removed and 
cleaned before a new mantle is ad- 
j usted. 

To Change a Uantle on a Welsbach 
Xamp. — To change a cap mantle take 
it up gently and put it down on a 
steady base, say, on the mantelpiece, 
handling it by the base or cap. To 
change a loop mantle, disengage the 
supporting rod by setting back the 
set screw. Lift the mantle off care- 
fully by raising the supporting wire. 
Slip a stiff wire or knitting needle 
through the loop in the top of the 
mantle at right angles with it. Hang 
the mantle in a pitcher having the 
ends of the knitting needle rest on 
each side. Be careful not to jar or 
knock the mantle in raising or re- 
placing it. The best of these mantles 
are exceedingly delicate and will fall 
to pieces at a touch. 

Gas Troubles. — If the gas goes out, 
send for the gas fitter or notify the 
ofSce of the company. But as this 
may occur at night when help cannot 
be obtained it is well to know how to 
meet the emergency. The cause may 
be a deficiency of water or an excess 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 



99 



of water, freezing of the meter, freez- 
ing of the service pipes, or the con- 
densation of water in the house pipes. 
Close the cocks of all the burners 
except one. When approaching the 
meter with a candle or open-flame 
lamp, keep the light at a distance to 
prevent an explosion. Turn off the 
gas at the main cock between the 
street surface pipe and the meter. 
Unscrew the plug of the waste-water 
system to let out any excess of water. 

If the meter is frozen, cover it with 
a flannel cloth and pour boiling water 
over it. Afterwards wrap it in dry 
flannel or protect it by felt, straw, tan 
bark, sawdust, or sand. If the surface 
pipe is frozen outside the house, it 
will be necessary to uncover it and 
apply heat. 

If water has condensed in the pipes 
it will cause the gas to jump up and 
down for some days before it finally 
puts the gas out. Hence, when it 
jumps or flickers, the gas company 
should be notified. 

Or, on emergency, remove a burner 
and blow violently into the pipe. This 
wiU sometimes force the water below 
the hollow. If the trouble persists, 
the location of the meter should be 
changed to a lower one, and the pipes 
inclined so that all condensed water 
will trickle back to the meter. 

Gas Arc Lamps. — These lamps are 
intended to give a maximum light with 
a minimum consumption of gas. They 
are composed of four burners of the 
incandescent burner or Welsbach type, 
and give a wonderfully high illumina- 
ting power, especially adapted for use 
in rooms of large area like stores, 
assembly halls, and churches having 
lofty ceilings. They are made for 
both outside and interior lighting, and 
are especially valuable for commercial 
purposes. 

Gas Leaks. — If a strong odor of 
gas is detected, probably a stopcock 
has been left open and the gas thus 
escapes at full force. Do not go near 
such an open gas jet with a light, as 
gas mingled with air is a highly explo- 
sive mixture. To enter a room filled 
with gas, first open adjacent doors 



and windows to create a draught, 
throw the doors wide open, rush across 
the I'oora, and throw the windows wide 
open, meantime holding the breath. 
The air is purest next the floor; hence 
if in danger of being overcome lie face 
down on the floor, where the air is 
likely to be comparatively pure. Turn 
off the open cock as soon as possible. 
If the odor of gas is slight, it may 
come from a small leak in the pipe or 
about a burner. To find such a leak 
light a match and carry the flame 
along the pipe from the tip of the jet 
as far as the pipe is exposed. Wlien 
the leak is found, the gas will take 
fire. 

Or dissolve half a bar of hard yel- 
low soap in IJ pints of water, and 
apply the mixture to the gas pipe 
with a brush. If there is gas escaping 
through holes it will form bubbles 
which can be seen and the leak de- 
tected without danger of explosion. 

To mend a small leak in a gas pipe 
cover the place temporarily with yel- 
low soap; stop it permanently with a 
cement made of white lead and boiled 
linseed oil. 

Acetylene Gas. — The use of acetylene 
gas for lighting purposes marks an 
era in artificial illumination. Acety- 
lene is produced by the contact of 
calcium carbide (which has somewhat 
the appearance of gunpowder) and 
water. The result is the evolution of 
a gas which burns with a pure white 
light giving the nearest approach to 
sunlight, and has an illuminating pow- 
er more than twelve times as great as 
that of ordinary gas. The introduc- 
tion of acetylene is comparatively re- 
cent, and some prejudice against it 
has been aroused by defects in the 
style of generators first placed upon 
the market. The experimental period 
is now well-nigh passed, and the Na- 
tional Board of Fire Underwriters has 
approved a large number of genera- 
tors. If a proper apparatus is select- 
ed, acetylene may be regarded to be 
as safe as any other illuminant. The 
various generators on the markets are 
of two types: one, in which the gas is 
produced by placing the calcium car- 



100 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



bide in a suitable receptacle and al- 
lowing water to gradually fall upon 
it; the other, in which a receptacle is 
filled with a relatively large quantity 
of water and the calcium carbide is al- 
lowed to drop into the water in small 




" Generators of Two Types." 

quantities. The latter type of gen- 
erator is the safer and is consequently 
to be preferred. The brilliancy of 
acetylene flame is so great that a small 
one the size of a copper cent is suffi- 
cient to light an ordinary living room. 
Hence the air is vitiated much less 
than by most other forms of illumina- 
tion. Recent experiments at Cornell 
University show that the light fur- 
nished by acetylene has, to a consid- 




" The Power of SunlightinPromoting Growth."* 

erable degree, the power that sunlight 
has in promoting the growth of vege- 
tation. It is much less trying to the 
eyes than electricity or ordinary gas. 



* Both lilies had the same treatment ex- 
cept that the larger was exposed at night to 
the light of acetylene gas. 



and is likely to become increasingly 
popular. 

Gasoline Gas. — Perhaps the cheap- 
est method of illumination in localities 
that are not supplied vrith illuminating 
gas or that are furnished with the gas 
at high prices, is the use of gasoline 
gas. A tank of gasoline is located 
outside of the dwelling house and 
buried six or eight feet under ground. 
To produce the gas it is only neces- 
sary to pass a current of air across 
the surface of the gasoline. A very 
simple contrivance for this purpose is 
a blower, which may be operated by 
windmill, water power, or by means 
of weights and pulleys installed in the 
cellar. Of course the necessary pip- 
ing must be provided to carry the 
gasoline gas to various parts of the 
dwelling as required, and also an au- 
tomatic air mixer. When the gasoline 
tank is ojitside the premises and un- 
derground, there is no possibility of 
explosion. The entire apparatus is 
very simple, and while the first cost 
has to be taken into account, the cost 
of operation is very low, probably not 
more than one half that of an equal 
number of kerosene lamps. 

Welsbach Burner. — The incandes- 
cent principle of light, as applied in 
the well-known Welsbach burner, con- 
sists in heating a gauze mantle, im- 
pregnated with certain rare earths, to 
a white heat by means of a mixture 
of gas and air. The result is a flame 
five or six times as strong in propor- 
tion to the gas consumed as that pro- 
duced by an ordinary open gas burner. 
The air in the room is also vitiated 
much less, and less heat is given off. 
The Welsbach burner may be used 
with any form of gas, but is especially 
useful in connection with gasoline gas, 
as it admits of a proper mixture of 
air with the gas, and does away with 
the necessity of providing an auto- 
matic air mixer. 

KEROSENE OIL 

Kerosene lamps. — The use of kero- 
sene in rural districts and small vil- 
lages is practically universal. For- 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 101 



merly, the oil of the sperm whale was 
the principal source of illumination in 
those localities, and before the dis- 
covery of petroleum the problem of 
lighting for country districts was a 
very serious one. Petroleum had been 
known for many years before the first 
well was driven in northwestern Penn- 
sylvania, in 1837, but from that time 
to this the use of kerosene and other 
petroleum products has increased rap- 
idly. 

Tc Choose Oil Lamps. — Practically 
all the standard makes of kerosene 
lamps are now safe and reliable, but 
the best results are those made on the 
principle of the German student lamp, 
having a reservoir of oil placed at a 
distance from the wick. If the wick 
protrudes directly from the reservoir 
of oil below it, the light decreases as 
the oU is consumed. 

Petroleum and Its Products. — Pe- 
troleum is a liquid containing bitumen, 
which occurs in a natural state in 
various parts of the world. It is also 
called rock oil and mineral oil. It 
ranges from a light straw color to 
black, depending upon the locality in 
which it is found. It sometimes occurs 
in springs, but is more often obtained 
by drilling wells. 

Petroleum is now conveyed to mar- 
kets and refineries through pipe lines, 
and the various oils derived from it 
are handled in tank cars, in steam- 
ships, and in barrels. Among the 
products of petroleum are gasoline, 
naphtha, benzine, kerosene, lubricating 
oils, parafSne, vaseline, and other sub- 
stances too numerous to mention. 

These are obtained by distilling 
petroleum in an iron stiU having a 
condenser of wrought-iron pipes im- 
mersed in water. When heat is ap- 
plied to the still the lightest or most 
volatile constituents are first driven 
off in the form of a gas. The next 
heaviest constituents condense at or- 
dinary temperatures as crude naphtha. 
These are afterwards distilled into 
gasoline and ABC naphthas. They 
have a specific gravity of 65° to S8° B. 

When the stream of oil has a grav- 
ity of 59° B. it is turned from the 



naphtha tank to the kerosene tank 
until it reaches a gravity of about 
38° B., or until the color becomes yel- 
low. The stream is then turned into 
the paraffine tank until it ceases to 
flow at a gravity of about 35° B. 
The residuum contained in the still 
consists of a thick, heavy tar. 

This is, of course, only an outline 
of the process, which is varied in a 
great many ways to produce a large 
nmnber of by-products, as vaseline 
and numerous others used in medicine 
and in the arts. The following is a 
fair average composition of petro- 
leum: Gasoline, 14 per cent; naphthas, 
14 per cent; kerosene, 65 per cent; 
lubricating oU, 17J per cent ; parafSne, 
2 per cent; waste, 10 per cent. 

Or, by another process, the same oil 
could be made to produce: Naphthas, 
20 per cent; kerosene, 66 per cent; 
waste, 14 per cent. 

Kerosene, or common illuminating 
oil, is the most important product of 
petroleum. Its appearance and prin- 
cipal properties are well known. 
Its density should be from 43° to 
45° B. 

Gasoline is another Important petro- 
leum product. It is used largely in 
the carburetors of automobile and 
other gasoline engines, for purposes of 
illumination, and also for heating and 
cooking in stoves especially designed 
for the purpose. 

The uses of crude petroleum and its 
various derivatives in the arts are very 
numerous, and its influence upon civ- 
ilization has been hardly less than that 
of the steam engine and of electricity. 
There seems to be no reason to fear 
any shortage of the production of 
petroleum for an indefinite time to 
come. 

To Test Illuminating Oil. — At ordi- 
nary temperatures kerosene oil should 
extinguish a match as readily as wa- 
ter. It should not give off any inflam- 
mable gas below .110° F., nor take fire 
below 125° F. Kerosene is usually 
freed from naphtha by spraying. If 
kerosene contains even a very small 
quantity of naphtha it is highly in- 
flammable and explosive'; therefore it 



102 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



is required by law to be tested before 
it is sold. 

There are two kinds of tests; the 
" flash test," which determines the low- 
est temperature at which oil gives off 
an inflammable vapor, and the " burn- 
ing test," which determines the lowest 
temperature at which the oil takes 
fire. This test is made commercially 
by means of an apparatus having a 
cup to hold the oil, in which the bulb 
of a thermometer is immersed, and 
which is surrounded by a vessel of 
water heated by an alcohol lamp. 
The temperature is slowly increased 
at the rate of about 3 per cent a 
minute. The oil is stirred at inter- 
vals, a flame applied, and the point 
noted at which an inflammable vapor 
is given off, and also at which the oil 
takes fire. 

A rough test for ordinary purposes 
may be made by filling a cup with 
water, inserting an ordinary ther- 
mometer, and bringing the tempera- 
ture to 110° over a slow fire. Pour a 
tablespoonful of oil on the water, and 
apply a lighted match. If the oil 
takes fire it is unsafe and is liable to 
explode. Dealers who sell oil that 
will not stand this test at 110° are 
liable to prosecution by law. They 
should be compelled to take back the 
oil and refund the price paid for it. 

To Purify Kerosene. — The adultera- 
tion of oil by means of a heavier oil 
than standard kerosene causes a dim- 
ness of the flame and charring of the 
wick. The best kerosene oil is clear and 
nearly colorless, like water. To puri- 
fy kerosene oil, add to 100 pounds of 
oil 1 pound of chloride of lime, mixed 
with 13 pounds of water to the con- 
sistency of cream. This must be done 
in a lead-lined vat, as iron or copper 
will be corroded by the process. Thor- 
oughly mix these materials, let stand 
over night, and add 1 or 3 pounds of 
sulphuric acid diluted with 30 to SO 
parts of water and boil with gentle 
heat, stirring constantly until a sam- 
ple tested on a glass plate is perfectly 
clear. Let the mixture settle, when 
the oil will rise to the top and can be 
drawn off, leaving the impurities in 



the form of sediment mixed with the 
acidulated water. 

The following four paragraphs are 
adapted from Macbeth's "Index." 

The Care of lamps. — ^Lamps smell 
and give poor light: first, because they 
are not kept clean; or secondly, the 
wick is poor or clogged by having 
been used too long; or thirdly, the 
chimney is wrong. 

Trim, clean, and fill daily, and wipe 
the whole lamp. 

Trim by rubbing the char off the 
wick; this leaves it even. Don't cut 
it; you can't cut it even. 

Keep the holes in the floor of the 
burner clear for draught. 

Don't fill quite full; the oil expands 
with heat and runs over. 

Boil the burner a few minutes once 
a month in sal soda or lye water. 

Empty the fount occasionally for 
sediment. 

Don't open the lamp when hot; 
there is explosive vapor in it. 

Light it with the wick turned low 
and turn up gradually, or you will 
get it too high and make smoke. 

Move with care a lamp that has 
been burning long enough to get hot; 
or, better still, don't move it. 

Use the American Fletcher or Hyatt 
wick; and renew it every month or 
two, no matter how fresh it looks; it 
gets clogged and doesn't feed freely. 

Use oil of not less than 110° flash 
for safety; the higher the flash the 
safer the oil. 

lamp Chimneys. — The object of 
lamp chimneys is to supply the flame 
with exactly the amount of air it 
needs for perfect combustion, no more 
and no less, vrith an even draught on 
both sides of the flame; they must, of 
course, be clear and transparent. This 
calls for fit in the fuU meaning of 
the word and for clear glass that will 
stay clear. Thus there is something 
to know about chimneys beyond the 
mere size of the bottom. The ordinary 
notion of fit is a chimney that will 
stay on the lamp and not fall off. 
That is part of the fit. The rest is 
such a shape as to make the right 
draught for that particular lamp. It 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 103 



Includes the seat, bulb, shaft, propor- 
tion, sizes in all parts, and length. 
Good chimneys that fit well give more 
light than common ones. This is due 
to perfection of shape and proportion 
and the right balance of draughts. 

To Select Chimneys. — Use the chim- 
ney recommended by the maker of the 
lamp, or write to a manufacturer of 
lamp chimneys for his catalogue and 
order according to directions. 

If compelled to buy from stock, try 
one chimney after another, turning up 
the wick in each case till you get the 
most light it will give. When you 
have the right one, you can turn the 
wick higher and get more light than 
you can from others, in some cases 
perhaps twice as much. It pays to 
select chimneys with care for two rea- 
sons: one is, the right chimney gives 
more light ; the other is, it lasts longer. 
Chimneys are usually made in three 
grades, of which it always pays to buy 
the best. Comparing bad chimneys 
with good ones, the breakage is ten to 
one, the light is half, and the price is 
half. 

The Breaking of Chimneys. — Chim- 
neys break from misuse. A wrong 
number may break or melt; if the 
burner is foul, the glass may break; 
a gust of cold air on a hot chimney 
may break it; a gas chimney may 
break or melt from a hole in the man- 
tle; the hole lets a jet of flame di- 
rectly against the chimney, the explo- 
sion of lighting breaks the mantle, 
and the broken mantle breaks the 
chimney. 

Whenever the chimney is touched by 
the flame it melts or breaks. Its shape 
prevents touching, unless through some 
misuse. In central-draught lamps the 
flame is between two draughts — the 
central and the outer one. When the 
burner is foul, this outer draught is 
partly stopped, and the flame gets 
pushed too near or against the chim- 
ney, and breaks or melts it. 

Chimneys cannot be made to resist 
misuse or accidents. 

To Prevent Explosions of Lamps. — 
One common cause of explosions is 
the upsetting of a lamp; hence select 



a lamp which has a broad, solid base 
rather than one that appears top 
heavy. 

Never fill a lamp while it is burn- 
ing. To avoid this, buy lamps that 
have no opening but the one made for 
the wick. While it is a convenience 
to have a lamp with a special opening 
for filling, it is not .safe, as children 
and others will sometimes undertake 
to fill it while burning, which may 
lead to an explosion. Also, when 
lamps have a special opening for fill- 
ing, the wick is likely to be neglected 
until it becomes charred and the burn- 
er gets clogged up and dirty. In 
this condition the lamp is very apt 
to explode, because the charred por- 
tion of a wick takes' fire, the oil that 
rims over burns, and heat is generated 
so low down in the burner that any 
volatile gases thrown off by the oil 
may become ignited. The best oil 
commences to evaporate at about 110° 
and ignites at 125°, and this vapor, 
like that which rises from gasoline, 
benzine, or naphtha, is highly inflam- 
mable and explosive. Hence do not 
let a lamp stand with little oil in it, 
or light one which has stood partly 
empty for a long time. 

The best lamps have an extinguisher 
to put out the flame, but if this is 
lacking, do not blow out the lamp 
without first turning down the wick, 
especially if the lamp has been burned 
for some time and the burner and ad- 
jacent parts are hot. The fact that 
you may have done this safely many 
times does not prove that under cer- 
tain conditions a volatile gas from the 
oil may not meet the flame and cause 
explosion. 

Always turn the lamp low when 
carrying it about, as movement from 
place to place in sudden draughts may 
bring the flame in contact with the 
gases that form when oil is burning, 
and that are more or less disturbed 
by the jar of walking. 

Chemistry of Lamps. — The chem- 
istry of burning kerosene is very sim- 
ple. The oil is composed of two 
inflammable substances, a gas (hydro- 
gen), which burns with a blue flame 



104 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



and a very intense heat, and a solid 
(carbon), whicli consists of very mi- 
nute particles in chemical combination 
with the hydrogen. When the lamp is 
lit the flame is raised to a temperature 
that admits of chemical union with 
the oxygen of the air. The hydrogen 
first burns, and produces sufficient heat 
to allow the oxygen to ignite with the 
carbon. When for any reason there 
is an excess of oil as when a lamp is 
turned too high, or when the heat of 
the flame is reduced as when the lamp 
is turned too low, the heat of the 
burning hydrogen is not sufficient to 
ignite all of the solid carbon, some of 
which escapes in the form of a finely 
divided black solid, and we say that 
the lamp smokes. This solid carbon 
is what we call soot, or lampblack. 
Commercial lampblack is thus ob- 
tained. 

When we breathe the air, a very 
similar process takes place in our 
lungs, the oxygen of the air uniting 
with the waste substances in the blood 
and purifying them by a kind of com- 
bustion. Hence every flame in a room 
robs the air of a certain amount of 
oxygen that is essential to human 
life. 

This process, both in the lamp and 
in the lungs, produces a compound of 
oxygen and carbon called carbon di- 
oxygen, or carbonic-acid gas. Human 
beings would inunediately suffocate in 
a room quite filled with carbonic-acid 
gas, as it contains no free oxygen in 
the form available for human use. 
When imbmned particles of carbon 
are thrown off in the form of smoke 
or soot, the finest of them are sus- 
pended in the air and find their way 
into the limgs. Nothing offers so much 
resistance to chemical and vital forces 
as pure carbon; hence these particles 
are difficult to dislodge and exceed- 
ingly harmful. 

Meantime the lamp in burning gen- 
erates a certain amount of heat. This 
extends from the burner to the adja- 
cent parts of the lamp, and in many 
cases makes the receptacle containing 
the oil quite hot. The temperature of 
the oil is thus raised, and at a certain 



point it gives off a volatUe inflamma- 
ble gas similar to gasoline, benzine, or 
naphtha, which, if the lamp should 
leak, may come in contact with the 
open flame and cause an explosion. 

Or, under certain circumstances, it 
may be exploded by a sharp jar. 

If these facts and principles are un- 
derstood and proper cautions are ob- 
served, there need be no danger in 
the use of kerosene. The fact that 
kerosene is used in practically every 
household and that explosions are very 
rare proves this, but it does not prove 
that proper precautions must not be 
observed. Modern lamps are so con- 
structed as to reduce to a minimum 
the dangers due to ignorance and 
carelessness, but the fact that explo- 
sions do take place occasionally shows 
that care and intelligence are still 
necessary. 

Cantions to Observe. — Buy the best 
lamps and the best oil. Trim the 
wicks and fill the lamps daily. Ad- 
just the wick neither too high nor 
too low. 

After turning up the wick to the 
right height, set the screw by a slight 
turn backward, which will prevent the 
wick from crawling up as it expands 
with the increase of heat. Try this, 
and the sense of touch will tell you 
what is necessary. Do not leave lamps 
or carry them when turned too high 
or too low. Adj ust the flame midway 
and set back the screw. 

Night Lamps. — Do not use ordinary 
lamps as night lamps by turning them 
low. Instead obtain a small night 
lamp that will admit of burning a 
tiny flame turned on full. Or turn 
up the ordinary lamp until the flame 
is clear and bright and then shade it 
from the eyes. The flame of an ordi- 
nary lamp turned low throws off a 
large amount of imconsumed carbon 
and volatile gases, which impregnate 
the atmosphere and are taken into the 
lungs with many evil consequences, 
that are usually attributed to other 
sources. 

Student Lamps. — These are pro- 
vided with an oil tank at some little 
distance from the burner and at a 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND HEFRIGERATiON lo^ 



lower level. Great care must be ob- 
served to keep a student lamp exactly 
level. If the oil tank is raised above 
the level of the burner, the latter will 
be overflowed with dangerous results. 
When filling the lamp, care must be 
taken not to leave air bubbles in the 
oil, otherwise the pipe conveying the 
oil to the burner will be clogged and 
the light will be made dim. 

Lamps on Fire. — ^When a lamp over- 
flows or for any reason gets on fire, 
seize it and throw it out of the win- 
dow. A moment's delay may result in 
an explosion that will scatter burning 
kerosene all about and lead to a con- 
flagration. Or seize as quickly as pos- 
sible a heavy woolen rug, table cover, 
or couch cover, and wrap it tightly 
around the lamp. This prevents the 
oxygen of the air from reaching the 
flame, and it is quickly smothered. If 
a person's clothing takes fire from 
kerosene flames, do not throw water 
upon him or aUow him to run about. 
Wrap him quickly in a large rug or 
other woolen cloth, which wUl extin- 
guish the flames. If, by the explosion 
of a lamp or otherwise, burning oil is 
scattered about a room, do not throw 
water upon it, as it will only spread 
it. Throw on milk or any dry, heavy 
substance, as flour, corn meal, sand, 
or earth. 

Kerosene for Lighting Fires. — 
Kerosene should not be used for light- 
ing fires, but it is so convenient and 
efBcient that persons will always be 
found who prefer to take their chances 
of an explosion. The only caution 
that must be observed is not to pour 
oil into the stove from a can, else it 
will become ignited and the flame fol- 
lowing the stream will find its way 
into the can and explode the oil. 
Even if the fire is supposed to be out, 
there may be coals or sparks in the 
ashes sufficient to ignite the fine 
stream of kerosene. If oU is to be 
used it should be poured into an old 
cup, saucer, or other open vessel and 
dashed at once on the kindling wood. 
The worst possible result to follow if 
oil is thus ignited will be a puff of 
flame, that wUl do no harm if it does 



not catch light garments or other in- 
flammable substances. 

Some persons soak corncobs in kero- 
sene and use these as fire lighters. 
When this is done the vessel in which 
they are kept should be provided with 
a tight cover and kept in a cool place. 

Poot Warmer. — When driving or 
sleighriding in winter, fill a sirup can 
having a screw top with hot water. 
This will keep warm for a, long time. 
It may be used in place of a hot- 
water bottle. 

Or make a square box of pine, 6 or 
8 inches deep and large enough to 
just fit about the base of an ordinary 
lantern. Leave this open at the top, 
and have the bottom broad enough so 
that the box will not readily tip over. 
Bore a few holes near the bottom of 
the box to admit the air, and when 
driving in winter set a lantern in the 
box and let it stand on the carriage 
or sleigh bottom under the robes at 
the driver's feet. If these suggestions 
are observed the lantern will burn 
with a clear, steady flame, without 
smoking, will not tip over or soil robes 
or garments, and will keep the driver 
comfortable in freezing weather. 

To Improve Kerosene Oil. — Put a. 
teaspoonful of common salt in an or- 
dinary hand lamp, and a tablespoon- 
ful in a large lamp with a B burner. 
This gives a more brilliant light, and 
tends to prevent smoking, and hence 
to keep the wicks and chimneys clean. 

Chinese Lanterns. — When using 
these lanterns for holiday occasions, 
put a few handfuls of sand in the 
bottom of the paper lantern about the 
candle. This keeps them from sway- 
ing, and also tends to prevent them 
from taking fire. 

Vest-pocket Light. — Put a piece of 
phosphorus in a 1- or 2-ounce glass 
vial and fill with olive oil. Cork 
tightly. When the oil is heated by 
the warmth of the body or otherwise, 
the phosphorus will emit light enough 
to read the time on the dial of a 
watch in the darkest night. Should 
the vial become broken do not touch 
the phosphorus with the fingers, as it 
will eat the flesh and produce an ulcer. 



106 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



Take it up between two sticks or 
otherwise and drop it into water. To 
give good results it must be kept from 
the air. 

Bonfires. — To inake brilliant bonfires 
and signal fires, mix 8 pounds of salt- 
peter, 4 pounds of flower of sulphur, 
1 pound of antimony, and J pound of 
camphor. Powder these ingredients, 
mix and tamp them into an iron 
socket. When ignited, they will burn 
for some time with great brilliancy. 

light in Sark Well or Cistern.^ 
Light may be reflected down a well or 
other deep, dark recess by means of 
a looking-glass. 

CANDLES AND CANDLE UAEING 

Candles. — A candle is often referred 
to as a symbol of the past, yet the 
candle industry of the United States 




"Especially for Dinner Tables." 

is greater at present than it has ever 
been in the past and is increasing rap- 
idly from year to year. Professor 
Thompson, a celebrated electrician, 
declares that if the electric light had 
existed for centuries and the candle 
was newly invented, it would be hailed 
as one of the greatest discoveries of 
the age, being entirely self-contained, 
cheap, and portable, and requiring no 
accessories in the way of chimneys or 



shades. Candles are much used for 
decorative purposes, especially for 
dinner tables, and they are also in 
demand for religious ceremonies in 
Catholic, Jewish, and other churches. 

How to Make Candles. — The well- 
nigh universal use of kerosene has 
supplanted the domestic art of candle 
making which in colonial times was 
practiced in every household. Of late, 
however, there is a growing tendency 
to revive the crafts of our forefathers, 
and to imitate the old English cus- 
toms from which they were derived. 
Antique candlesticks in various artis- 
tic forms are much in demand for or- 
nament as well as for utility. The 
pretty custom of placing lighted can- 
dles on lunch and dinner tables is 
much observed, and the use of bed- 
time candlesticks is quite common. 
For all these reasons, as also on ac- 
count of the usefulness of a bit of 
candle for the homelier purposes of 
the household, it is worth while to 
revive the art of candle making. These 
household arts have, moreover, a dis- 
tinct educational value. Time often 
hangs heavy on the hands of the boys 
and girls, especially on stormy days 
in the country, and there can be no 
harm in turning a quantity of mutton 
or beef suet and a little beeswax into 
a dozen or two candles, which will save 
kerosene and which would cost quite 
a little sum at the grocer's. 

Commercial candles are made from 
tallow and a substance known as stea- 
rin which is derived from tallow; from 
wax; from spermaceti; and from 
paraffine, which is a. petroleimi prod- 
uct. Wax candles are usually rolled. 
Tallow candles may be either dipped 
or molded. Candle molds consist of 
tubes arranged in frames of 6 or 13 
tubes, and fitted with a trough at the 
upper part of the frame through which 
the tallow may be poured into the 
tubes or molds. The wicks are ar- 
ranged along the axis of the tubes and 
tied to wires hung across the top of 
the frame. 

Dipped candles are made upon a 
different frame, consisting of two cir- 
cular wires separated by standards of 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 107 



a length corresponding to that desired 
for the candle. The wicks are strung 
from one circle to the other at dis- 
tances apart rather more than double 
the intended thickness of the candle. 
The frames are then immersed in 
melted tallow and removed to cool, 
and afterwards dipped agaui and 
again, until the proper thickness is 
secured. Wax candles are prepared by 
pouring melted wax upon the wicks 
until they acquire suitable thickness. 
Afterwards they are shaped by roll- 
ing between wet pieces of hard wood. 

Candle Wicks. — The first step in 
making candles is the preparation of 
the wicks. Candle wicking can be ob- 
tained from any dealer in dry goods 
in the form of cotton roping, which 
may be twisted or braided together, 
using as many strands to make the 
wick as the size of the candle requires. 

The greatest desideratum is a wick 
that will consume itself and do away 
with the necessity of snuffing. Many 
efforts have been made to produce the 
ideal wick. The wicking is commonly 
soaked in various inflammable sub- 
stances, or treated so as to cause the 
end of the wide to bend over when 
burning and protrude outside of the 
flame. This contact with the oxygen 
of the air creates a more perfect com- 
bustion than can take place within 
the flame. One method of causing the 
wick to bend is to braid into it one 
strand which is shorter than the others 
and is therefore stretched to greater 
tension. Another is to load the wick 
with metallic bismuth. This melts in 
the flame and forms a bead that causes 
the wick to bend. 'The following solu- 
tions for the preparation of wicks are 
recommended : 

Soak the wick in spirits of turpen- 
tine and afterwards dry thoroughly 
before using. Use a wick smaller than 
ordinary. Or dissolve in 3 quarts of 
water 2 ounces of borax, 1 ounce of 
chloride of lime, 1 ounce of chloride 
of ammonia, and 1 ounce of saltpeter. 
Filter through a cheese cloth. Soak 
the wicks in this solution. Or dissolve 
in 1 gallon of water i pound of lime 
and 3 ounces of saltpeter. In all 



these solutions immerse the wicks fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. Remove and 
hang in the sunshine to dry thor- 
oughly before using. 

Candles from Tallow. — Candles may 
be made in the proportion of 3 parts 
of mutton tallow to 1 part of beef 
tallow, but they are likely to be soft 
and often turn yellow, especially in 
summer time; hence the following 
methods are used to harden the tallow: 

Put the tallow over the fire, and 
when nearly melted stir in 1 pound of 
alum dissolved in hot waiter for each 
S pounds of tallow, until all is melted. 
Or melt together IJ pounds of mut- 
ton tallow, 8 ounces of beeswax, i 
ounce of camphor, and 4 ounces of 
alum. Either of these will be as hard 
and durable as wax, and if the wicks 
are properly prepared will burn with 
a clear and steady light. 

Tallow used for candles must be 
clear-grained fat, which may be puri- 
fied as recommended under " Soap 
Making," or by mixing tallow, bees- 
wax, and other ingredients, and melt- 
ing all together in a kettle with a 
weak potash or soda lye. Put the 
kettle on the range to boil in the 
morning while other work is being 
done, and let boil for two or three 
hours, stirring occasionally, and skim- 
ming off the impurities with a coarse 
strainer. Let stand over night, and 
when cold take off the cake of tallow 
and wax from the lye, scrape off the 
soft part next the lye with its impuri- 
ties, and boil up with a fresh kettle 
of lye. So continue two or three 
days, and the last day, instead of lye 
use for each 30 pounds of tallow wa- 
ter containing 1 pound of alum and 
1 pound of saltpeter. Remove the 
cake when cold and the tallow will be 
purified ready for use. 

Candles from Lard. — Put 10 pounds 
of lard on the fire, and before it 
is quite melted add 1 pound of salt- 
peter and 1 pound of alum dissolved 
in half a pint or a little more of 
boiling water. Boil until all the 
water has been evaporated. Skim 
off any impurities that rise to the 
surface. _Meantime, stir vigorously 



108 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



to prevent burning. As soon as the 
steam ceases to rise, pour off the tal- 
low and rinse the boiler. The tallow 
is now ready. 

Or mix 1 pound of lard with 7 
pounds of beeswax. Melt with gentle 
heat and add carefully 1 ounce of 
nitric acid, stirring vigorously. 

Stearin, or Stearic Acid. — This is 
the principal fatty acid contained in 
animal fats. Tallow and other fats 
contain also glycerin and various im- 
purities. To remove these, take 3 
ounces of slaked lime to IJ pounds of 
common tallow, and have ready 4 
ounces of sulphuric acid. Melt the 
tallow and stir in the lime, boiling 
over a slow fire until a lime soap is 
formed. Turn off the lime soap into 
another kettle, add the sulphuric acid, 
boil, and stir until the fat separates. 
The sulphuric acid will unite with the 
alum, forming sulphate of lime and 
water. When cool, remove the cake 
of fat; melt this with gentle heat, stir- 
ring vigorously to prevent burning, 
until any water it may contain is 
driven off. The resulting product is 
stearin, or stearic acid, a perfectly 
dry, inflammable substance, but with- 
out any greasy feel, and having a 
somewhat pearly luster. Stearin alone 
does not form good candles, as after 
melting it cools in the form of hard 
crystals; but mixed with one tenth its 
weight of wax it forms the finest 
grade of commercial candles. Stearin 
is also made by separating the glyce- 
rin from cocoanut oil or palm oil by 
a jet of dry steam. Stearin candles 
give better light and burn longer than 
any other kind. 

To Dip Candles. — First cut the 
wicks to the proper length, then dip 
them in melted tallow, roll them be- 
tween the hands to thoroughly incor- 
porate the tallow with the wick, pull 
them straight, and allow them to 
harden. Adjust the wicks on the 
dipping frame, which may be pur- 
chased or homemade of wire, being 
merely two rings of wire separated 
the proper distance by three or four 
stiff wire standards. Set the wicks a 
little more than twice the thickness 



of a candle from each other. Melt 
the tallow over a slow fire, but do 
not let it burn. Dip the frame in the 
melted tallow by means of a wooden 
handle. Remove it, touch the bot- 
toms of the candles gently upon a 
smooth board, and suspend the frame 
in a JittUght of cool air, if possible, 
to set and harden. When cold, im- 
merse a second time, and so continue 
until the candles are of the proper 
size. 

To Mold Candles. — Candle molds 
may be purchased made either of tin 
or pewter. Candles are molded up- 
side down, the tray or trough at the 
upper part of the mold corresponding 
to the bottom of the candle, and the 
lower part of the mold being shaped 
to mold the candle top and having a 
small aperture in the center to re- 
ceive the wick. Loop one end of the 
wick over a wire suspended across 
the top of the mold, thread the other 
end into a large darning needle, and 
drop it down through the aperture at 
the bottom of the mold. 

Or use a long piece of wire for this 
purpose. The wick may be knotted, 
where it comes out of the lower end 
of the mold, to keep it taut. Melted 
tallow, hot enough to be easily poured, 
is poured into the mold until it is 
filled, the wicks are then pulled tight, 
and the candles allowed to cool. When 
quite cold they may be removed by 
the loops in the wicking at the top of 
the mold. 

To Boll Candles. — Wax candles can- 
not be molded, as wax has a tendency 
to contract in cooling and also to 
adhere to the molds; hence the wicks 
are arranged on frames similar to dip- 
ping frames and suspended over a 
kettle of melted wax. The wax is 
then poured over the wicks by means 
of a ladle, so that what does not ad- 
here to them falls back into the kettle. 
This process is continued until the 
candles are of the proper size. They 
are then taken one by one and rolled 
to the proper shape between two pad- 
dles of hard wood previously soaked 
in water. 

Or while soft the melted wax may 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND HEFRlGEftATlON 109 



be applied to the wicks with the hand, 
and the candles afterwards rolled, cut, 
and trimmed. 

To Imitate Wax Candles. — Melt 
together two parts of wax to one of 
tallow, and make into candles either 
by dipping or molding. These have 
the appearance of wax candles and 
are much more easily prepared. The 
tallow should be clear-grained fat, 
cleansed of all its impurities. 

To Bleach Candles. — Candles may 
be bleached by exposing them to dew, 
air, and sunshine. If wax candles 
become soiled, they may be cleansed 
by rubbing them with a piece of 
flannel cloth slightly dampened with 
alcohol. 

To prevent candles from dripping 
and sputtering, put them on ice for 
two or three hours before using, but 
do not aUow the wicks to touch the 
melting ice. Before lighting, turn the 
candle upside down and rub a pinch 
of salt into the wick between the 
thumb and forefinger. Shake off the 
excess of salt so that the grains will 
not fall on the candle. The result 
will be an even, clear burning. 

To Light a Candle. — Apply the 
match to the side of the wick, and not 
to the top. 

To Blow Out a Candle. — Hold the 
candle higher than the mouth and 
blow it out by an upward instead of 
a downward air current. This will 
prevent the wick from smoldering. 

To Carry Candles. — When carrying 
a lighted candle about the house use a 
short piece held in the middle of a 
tumbler. Let the candle drip for 
a moment into the bottom of the tum- 
bler, and fasten it by its own drip- 
pings. The glass will protect the 
candle from draughts. 

Candlesticks. — A supply of candle- 
sticks in all parts of the house will 
not only be of great convenience and 
utility but will give an effective touch 
of decoration to a home. A row of 
brass or bronze candlesticks of various 
sizes may be placed in the hall for 
bedroom use. Silver or glass may be 
used in the dining room, delft or 
china in the drawing-room, and can- 



dlestick sets with match box and 
snuffers on the bedside tables. 

Candlesticks are always acceptable 
bridal presents, and the fad or fashion 
of collecting antiques and preserving 
heirlooms of this sort commends itself 
on account of the many pleasant as- 
sociations connected with candlelight. 

Sushligrhts. — The old - fashioned 
rushlights may be made by stripping 
the skin from the rushes and dipping- 
the pith in melted tallow in the same 
manner that candles are dipped. These 
were formeWy used for many house- 
hold purposes. 

Electricity. — The first cost of in- 
stalling electricity is considerable. It 
is in most localities an expensive light 
and is somewhat hard upon the eyes, 
but notwithstanding these drawbacks 
it is perhaps the most convenient of 
all forms of lighting, and hence its 
use seems to be upon the increase. 

IITBITSTBIAL ALCOHOL 

Denatured alcohol may be dis- 
tilled from the various products of 
the farm, such as corn, potatoes, 
beets, sugar cane, and other starch 
and sugar-bearing grains or plants. 
It is simply the ordinary grain alco- 
hol of commerce made unfit for use 
as a beverage. Prior to January 1, 
190T, the tax of $3.07 on a gallon of 
94 per cent alcohol precluded its use 
as a fuel for lighting, heating, and 
cooking. The regulations issued by 
the U. S. Internal Revenue Depart- 
ment provide a formula for denatur- 
ing grain or ethyl alcohol, so that it 
may now be freely sold in drug, 
hardware, and general stores through- 
out the United States for industrial 
purposes. 

In Germany each year about 78,- 
000,000 gallons of alcohol are produced 
from potatoes alone — about 80 per 
cent of the entire alcohol production 
of the empire. The Germans are 
frugal and economical; their ap- 
proval of this wonderful fuel dem- 
onstrates its practical value for 
household uses. Special denatured 
alcohol is used in the manufacture of 



110 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



hundreds of articles, such as cel- 
luloid, imitation leather, jewelry, 
watches, lacquers, pastes, varnishes, 
shoe polish, bronze, transparent soap, 
etc. But its greatest consumption 
will ultimately come from its use in 
lamps, cooking and heating stoves, 
and other household' utilities. Appli- 
ances have been perfected for some 
time that give great satisfaction. 
Master minds, however, are working 
on this great problem, and improved 
devices are daily being placed on the 
market. 

Iiighting. — One of the most im- 
portant uses for denatured alcohol is 
found in the lighting field. Its supe- 
riority over kerosene and gasoline is 
self-evident. It gives a cool, clear, 
white light of unusual brilliancy, con- 
sumes but a very small percentage 
of oxygen, is safe, gives off no odor 
or soot, and necessitates but little 
care. The wick never burns nor does 
it require trimming. The cost to op- 
erate a household denatured alcohol 




Alcohol Lamps. 

lamp which, as certified by the elec- 
trical testing laboratories, yields 
45-1% candle power of light, and con- 
sumes 1 gallon of alcohol in 38i 
hours, would be only 1^ cents per 
hour if alcohol cost 50 cents per gal- 



lon. This price is a fair one through- 
out the United States, though it will 
doubtless be lowered as the consump- 
tion increases and new methods of 
manufacture are developed. 

Alcohol lamps are constructed on 
the Bunsen burner principal, through 
which the alcohol is vaporized, only 1 
part of alcohol to 20 parts of air 
being thus consumed. The incandes- 
cent mantle, used on alcohol lamps, 
transforms this light from the gas 
generated by the Bunsen burners 
into a beautiful white light not un- 
like daylight. Lamps are now of- 




Alcohol Camping Kit. 

fered for sale throughout this coun- 
try in various styles — student and ta- 
ble lamps, hand lamps, also inverted 
lights of as high as 300 candle power. 
These inverted lights are constructed 
to withstand wind, rain, and storm, 
and can be used for all outdoor as 
well as indoor purposes. 

Stoves. — Cooking stoves (one, two, 
and three burners) are now in satis- 
factory use. For summer cooking, in 
place of gas ranges or oil stoves, they 
present many advantages. There is 
absolutely no odor or smoke, the heati 
is concentrated at exactly the point 
desired, the flame is very hot, and it 
gives very little radiant heat; any- 
thing that can be cooked by boiling, 
steaming, stewing, simmering, and 
frying can be cooked on an alcohol 
stove with the ordinary utensils 
found in u kitchen. Roasting and 
broiling can be done by the aid of 
special utensils for the purpose. The 
small portable ovens used on gas 
stoves may also be used on alcohol 
stoves. Ovens for bread making and 
roasting are promised shortly — in 
fact, a complete alcohol range. One 
experiment shows that 1 gallon of al- 
cohol, costing 50 cents, was sufficient 
to cook 36 meals for two people dur- 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 111 



ing 13 consecutive days at a cost of 
less than 4 cents a day. The best re- 
sults in burning coal averaged 8 cents 
a day. The higher cost of coal is 
found in the waste of heat betvi^een 
meals when the stove is unused, yet 
burning coal. The low cost of alco- 
hol comes from the fact that the in- 
stant the cooking stops the cost stops. ' 

This great economy combined with 
its cleanliness, safety, ease of man- 
agement, and its complete control 
promise to make this the ideal do- 
mestic fuel. 

Heating. — Heating stoves are not 
so far advanced as other alcohol- 
consuming devices. They are in con- 
siderable use in the East, and have 
been used largely in Germany and 
France for years. The heaters are 
cleanly in that there is no dust or 
ashes. And being light and not at- 
tached to flue, pipe, or chimney, they 
can easily be moved from place to 
place. The flame is at all times non- 
smoking and odorless. Other advan- 
tages not so easily observed, but none 
the less real and important, are 
found in the increased healthfulness 
and purity of the air of a closed 
room in which alcohol is burned, 
compared to one in which kerosene 
or gasoline is being used. The nox- 
ious influence of carbonic-acid gas in 
closed rooms is well known. That 
carbonic monoxide always accom- 
panies this, and is many times more 
poisonous and more lasting in its evil 
effects, is not so well known. This 
gas results from the incomplete com- 
bustion of the carbonaceous materi- 
als, and the very fact that the alcohol 
flame is nonluminous shows that com- 
bustion is complete and that there is 
practically none of the dangerous 
carbon-monoxide gas formed. 

Other rtllities. — Self-heating flat- 
irons, chafing dishes, special marine 
lamps and stoves, curling Irons, port- 
able or nursery cooking stoves with 
nested utensils, and many other novel 
and practical utilities are now on the 
market. 

Power. — Alcohol as a motor fuel 
that is an explosive agent in an in- 



ternal combustion engine is a recent 
development. In France cabs weigh- 
ing 3,788 pounds were driven 70 miles 
in 3 hours and 4i4< minutes at as low 




Self-heating Flatiron and Stoves. 

a cost as 40 cents. The leading auto- 
mobile makers are now making ex- 
haustive experiments. 

Possibilities. — The future of this 
practically inexhaustible fuel is as- 
sured. The granges throughout the 
United States have taken it up and 
organized the famous National Com- 
mittee, " to promote the use of alco- 
hol in the industrial arts, and es- 
pecially to encourage its use for 
light, heat, and power, to the end 
that new markets for farm products 
shall be opened, modern improve- 
ments brought into the rural home, 
the toil of the farmer's wife lessened, 
and all the benefits of cheap alcohol 
difi^used among the people in the 
shortest time." The Federal Govern- 
ment has- established a model distill- 
ery in Washington. The agricultural 
colleges throughout the country will 
teach the manufacture of ^denatured 
alcohol, and tremendous development 
is promised by the Department of 
Agriculture, now taking an active in- 
terest in the subject, 

WATER SUPPLY 

Water should be brought into the 
house, and also to the barn whenever 
possible, by windmill or by a gravity 
system. Pipes should then be laid to 



112 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



remove the waste water from house 
and barn, and to dispose of it in such 
a way as to avoid creating breeding 
grounds for the bacteria that cause 
filth diseases. There are important 
reasons why water should be brought 
to the barn; but if it is not possible 
to bring it to both places, the house 
should have the preference. L. H. 
Baily says: "The first thing I would 
now do for the farm home is to put 
in sanitary water works for the care 
and comfort of the person. Nothing 
would so soon lift the home ideals." 

Every farmhouse should have good 
kitchen sinks, water closets, and a 
bathroom. Drinking water should be 
brought in by pipes. Such a water 
supply means additional comfort, bet- 
ter health, protection against fire, 
saving of labor, and a supply of water 
for garden and lawn. 

Various methods are in use, as 
pumps, gravity from high springs or 
creeks or tanks on the roof. If the 
source of supply is a spring, first find 
out two things: is the spring high 
enough above the house? Is the quan- 
tity of water sufficient? You can 
measure the overflow of the spring by 
paUfuls. The house alone for a fam- 
ily of ten will need about 600 gallons 
in twenty-four hours. To get this, 
the spring should flow fast enough to 
fill a 10-quart paU in five minutes. 
If the spring is high above the house 
and near at hand, |-inch pipe may be 
sufficient; but if the spring is not 
high, or if the pipe is long, inch pipe 
is safer and better. 

The spring should be dug out, 
walled up, and covered with wood, 
brick, stone, or concrete — to be pre- 
ferred in the order mentioned. The 
pipe may be either iron, lead, wood, 
or sewer pipe. Sewer pipe costs 
about six cents a running foot, and 
|-inch wrought-iron pipe about the 
same. 

If t'.ie pressure is high— especially 
at the lower end — ^it is safer to use 
iron. Wood or lead pipe is nowadays 
rarely used. 

A windmill and a tank, piped to 
convey water both to house and barn. 



is a good investment. The tank should 
hold a week's supply, or about 3,000 
gallons for the house, and twice as 
much for house and barn: say a tank 
10 feet across and 6 feet deep. The 
mill should be at least a 12-footer. 

If a gravity water supply or wind- 
mill cannot be had, water should cer- 
tainly be brought to the kitchen sink 
and also to the bathroom, if any, by 




Hot-water Circulation After E. T. WHson. 

means of a small hand force pump. 
The ste'ps saved and health gained 
make a convenient water supply a 
necessity rather than a luxury. 

Disposal of Waste Water. — If water 
is brought into the house, piping 
must be provided to carry the waste 
water so far away that it will not seep 
into the well, or otherwise become a 
menace to health. Many a house- 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND .REFRIGERATION H3 



keeper steps to the kitchen door and 
empties the dish pan hy throwing the 
water as far as she can. Drainpipes 
from many farmhouses form pools a 
short distance from the house, whence 
dirty water is expected to leach into 
the soil or be taken up by the sun. 
These spots are natural breeding 
grounds for the germs of typhoid and 
other contagious filth diseases. Mos- 
quitoes also breed in these pools, and 
thence come into the house, bringing 
through their bites germs of disease, 
which find their way into the blood. 
Modern science has traced to such 
sources many deaths in rural neigh- 
borhoods that should be the most 
healthy in the world. 

These dangers may be prevented by 
carrying the drainpipes to any run- 
ning stream where the water is not 
afterwards used. 

Cesspool. — ^The next best device is 
a cesspool, about 6 feet across and 8 
or 10 feet deep, and at least 100 feet 
from any buildings. Wall this up 
with stones, but do not cement it. The 
liquids will leach away into the soil, 
and the solids can be cleaned out two 
or three times a year. Care must be 
taken to locate the cesspool far 
enough from the well, so that drain- 
age from it will not contaminate 
drinking water. 

A cesspool should not be dug in a 
heavy clay or a clay loam, through 
which liquids wiU not drain away. In 
such cases it is necessary to carry the 
drainage farther from the house — say 
200 or 300 feet — and allow it to flow 
over a considerable surface. This 
tract may be grass land, or, better, 
artificially prepared by covering it 
with sand. It should have an area 
of from 25 to 100 feet square for 
every ten persons in the family; and 
the sewage should be distributed by 
drains or furrows, so that it will come 
in contact with all parts of the sur- 
face, and not settle in a single pool. 

Sink Drain! — A temporary drain 
folr waste water from the kitchen sink 
may be made very cheap. Four-inch 
vitrified tile costs about seven cents 
a foot. A drain may be run about 



25 feet in the opposite direction from 
the well, and the waste conveyed to a 
tub or barrel, whence it may be run 
off to the garden by a small pipe or 
carried away in pails. If a barrel 
can be provided with two wheels, and 
a tongue like a cart, it can be easily 
drawn away from time to time and 
emptied. The expense of such a drain 
is nominal: twenty-five feet of vitri- 
fied tile, $1.75; sink, $1.25; pipe and 
trap, $1. Total, $4. 

Another method is to dig a trench 
75 to 100 feet long, 3 or 3 feet wide, 
and the same deep. Lay in the bot- 
tom of this trench 4- or 6-inch drain- 
tiles. Leave the joints open, and fill 
around the drain with field stone and 
pebbles as large as your fist. This 
should be 200 feet or more from 
buildings. The top is to be left open, 
and waste water discharged into it 
by pipes leading from the house. The 
drain will be filled to the top, but in 
a short time it will leach away into 
the soil. A pound or so of copperas 
dissolved in a pailful of hot water and 
poured into the drain will destroy all 
offensive odors. 

Water Pipes. — To prevent the 
freezing of water pipes where there is 
a regjilar water supply, always turn 
off the water from the house by turn- 
ing the stopcock leading to the street 
main. Open all faucets and allow 
pipes to drain thoroughly, also empty 
the kitchen boiler. If this is not done 
the boiler may collapse. To empty 
the boiler attach a garden or other 
hose to the top and let the water run 
into the sink. You should do this 
every spring and fall to clean the 
tank. 

To prevent freezing in pumps, lift 
the trap in the valve and allow the 
water to run back into the well. 

Kitchen sinks should not be put 
against the outer wall of a house. If 
this has been done and the sink can- 
not be changed, circular tubes of as- 
bestos can be purchased and fitted 
over the pipes, or the wall may be 
lined with asbestos. But on cold 
nights it is safer to turn the water 
Off. 



114 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEKIES 



Trozen Water Pipes. — While the 
pipes are frozen care must be taken 
not to build a fire in furnace or range, 
as direct heat from the pipes will gen- 
erate steam and severe explosions may 
follow. At the very least pipes will 
burst and the plumbers' bills for re- 
pairs will be heavy. Pipes that are 
slightly stuck may be thawed by 
wrapping them round with flannel or 
other cloth and pouring on hot water. 
Plumbers use gasoline or kerosene gas 
in lamps which blow around the frozen 
pipe, and they move the lamp back 
and forth so as not to apply too much 
heat at any one spot. 

Drinking Water. — The source of 
supply of drinking water should be 
absolutely pure. And it is a good 
idea to have drinking water, especial- 
ly from wells and cisterns, tested 
chemically at least twice a year. 
Water from deep cisterns, from wells, 
and from the deepest portions of 
large ponds and reservoirs, is to be 
preferred to that from running 
streams. Water is often contaminat- 
ed by its proximity to stables, cess- 
pools, and open drains, through un- 
derground leaching in sandy or other 
porous soil. Bacteria of typhoid 
fever, cholera, and dysentery may be 
ta|ten into the system from impure 
drinking water. When there is any 
reason to suspect the water supply, 
especially if these diseases are preva- 
lent, all drinking water should be 
boiled. A little lemon juice will take 
away the flat taste of boiled water. 

Physicians frequently recommend 
drinking water in large quantities, 
say, a pint half an hour before each 
meal, and the same quantity before 
retiring at night. The effect of this 
is to increase the muscular activity of 
certain internal organs by distention, 
and to dissolve certain poisonous se- 
cretions, as uric acid, for instance, 
which causes rheumatism. This prac- 
tice is also a preventive in cases of 
threatened diabetes or kidney disease. 
It is probable that few persons drink 
as much water as is advisable from 
a hygienic standpoint. But, of course, 
the more water taken into the system 



the more Important it is that the 
source of supply should be pure. 

Approximately four fifths of the 
human body consists of liquids, of 
which over 60 per cent is water. This 
fact suggests the importance of sup- 
plying drinking water of the best 
quality. 

Wells. — In most localities it is not 
necessary to dig more than 20 or 30 
feet to strike running water. Water 
accumulates in wells from under- 
ground streams percolating through 
the soil. Soils often lie in layers, a 
layer of sandy soil sometimes occur- 
ring between two layers of clay or 
gravel in such a way as to convey 
contamination from cesspools, drains, 
and other decaying organic matter 
from long distances. More often, 
wells are contaminated by surface 
water washing into them. The best 
way to line a well is with large tiles 
or tile piping. A heavy tight-fitting 
stone laid over the mouth of the well 
will keep out small animals and pre- 
vent angleworms, dead leaves, and 
other organic matter from being car- 
ried into the well by surface leach- 
ing. 

Well Water usually contains min- 
eral impurities that percolate through 
the soil, and is often contaminated by 
angleworms, snakes, toads, and other 
small animals falling into the well. 
The skeletons of these animals are not 
infrequently found at the bottom of 
old wells when cleaning. Wells are 
especially liable to contamination 
through drains and sewers. 

Water from Bivers is less pure 
than good spring water. It usually 
contains mud and other organic mat- 
ter in suspension, and is often con- 
taminated by drains, stables, sewage, 
etc. 

Spring Water is usually pure and 
good for drinking water, but it often 
contains minerals in solution, and is 
tlien known as hard water. A spring 
intended to be a source of water sup- 
ply should be tested by chemical anal- 
ysis. 

Bain Water, when properly col- 
lected at a distance from large towns. 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND EEFRIGERATION 115 



is pure and soft. In towns it is 
often contaminated by smoke and 
fumes in the atmosphere. Cistern 
water in towns and cities should be 
filtered and boiled for drinking pur- 
poses. 

Snow Water from clean snow, melt- 
ed, is the purest form of natural 
water. 

To Soften Water. — Boiling hard 
water from twenty to thirty minutes 
is the best way to soften it for drink- 
ing purposes. This also has the ef- 
fect of killing all germs of disease it 
may contain. Carbonic-acid gas pass- 
es off with the steam, and carbonate 
of lime is left as a sediment. A clean 
oyster shell put in the tea kettle will 
attract this and other sediments that 
are deposited from boiling water, and 
will thus prevent an unpleasant crust 
from gathering on the inside of the 
tea kettle. 

Or baking soda (bicarbonate of 
soda) in small quantities will soften 
hard water by removing the excess of 
lime. 

Or, for the laundry, hard water 
may be softened by the addition of a 
little borax. And this does not make 
water objectionable for cooking pur- 
poses. 

Or quicklime is also recommended. 
Dissolve i ounce in 10 quarts of 
water, and pour this solution into a 
barrel of hard water. The whole, will 
be softened. 

To Make Boiled Water More Pal- 
atable. — The flat taste of boiled water 
is objectionable to many. This may 
be obviated by pouring the water rap- 
idly from one pitcher to another, hold- 
ing the two pitchers some distance 
apart. This process aerates the water, 
renders it sparkling, and restores its 
natural flavor. A few drops of lemon 
juice contribute to this effect. 

To Keep Water Cool withcat.Ice. 
— In summer or in warm climates 
drinking water may be kept in un- 
glazed earthenware pitchers. Wrap 
several folds of cheese cloth around 
the outside of the pitcher. Keep these 
constantly wet and place the pitcher 
in a draught. The evaporation of the 



moisture from the cheese cloth tends 
to cool the contents of the pitcher. 

To Test Water. — Fill a number of 
tumblers half full of the suspected 
water, and employ the following 
tests; 

To test for lime, use a small quan- 
tity of oxalic acid. The lime will be 
revealed in a white precipitate. 

To test for carbonate of iron, use 
a tincture of galls. This will yield 
a black precipitate. 

To test for vegetable and animal 
matter, use a, small quantity of sul- 
phuric acid. The water will become 
black. 

To test for copper, dip a penknife 
in the water. The copper will be de- 
posited in a yellow coating. 

To Purify Water. — ^When water in 
wells or other receptacles smells bad, 
suspend in it lumps of charcoal in a 
basket or net, so that they qan be re- 
moved and replaced at intervals. 

To Clarify Water. — Water in 
springs, wells, and streams often be- 
comes muddy after heavy rains, and 
the water of some streams always 
holds a large amount of liquid mud 
and other impurities in solution. In 
such cases it becomes important to 
clarify the water to make it more pal- 
atable and attractive, and this is es- 
pecially the case when filters are used, 
as otherwise the filter soon clogs up 
and becomes useless. 

Alum is a universal agent for pre- 
cipitating impurities in suspension or 
even in solution. It is very common- 
ly employed along the Missouri and 
Mississippi rivers and other muddy 
streams. 

To quickly clarify a pitcher of 
drinking water, tie a lump of alum 
to a string and swing it about in the 
water. The sediment will settle. 

Or, for larger quantities, use 1 tea- 
spoonful of pulverized alum to 4 gal- 
lons of drinking water. Stir the water 
before putting in the alum. After the 
water has settled, draw it off in such 
a way as not to disturb the sediment. 
A tablespoonful of the alum will set- 
tle the contents of a hogshead of 
water. The alum itself, if too much 



116 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



is not used, will settle and be carried 
off in the sediment. 

Or lime is recommended, used in 
the form of certain salts of lime, 
either chloride, nitrate, or bicarbonate 
of lime, or caustic lime. Use 1 part 
of any of these salts of lime to 1,000 
parts of water. 

Or sulphate of alumina is recom- 
mended for clarifying water contain- 
ing vegetable or animal matter. The 
formula is as follows: Bisulphate of 
alumina (neutral solution), 1 ounce; 
water, 435 gallons. 

Or dissolve 3 ounces of saltpeter in 
1 quart of warm water, and throw 
the solution into the cistern or well. 

Or, to purify putrid water: Water, 
1 pound; sulphuric acid, 8 drops. Mix 
and filter through charcoal. 

Or water, 8 gallons; powdered 
aliun, 1 ounce. Dissolve with agita- 
tion, then allow it to rest for twenty- 
four hours, decant into another ves- 
sel, and add a solution of carbonate 
of soda until it ceases to produce a 
precipitate. 

Or instead of alum add 7 or 8 
grains of red sulphate of iron, then 
proceed as before. 

Or add a little aqueous chlorine to 
the foul water. 

Or arrange a suitable pipe to the 
end of a pair of bellows (double bel- 
lows are best), and force the air 
through the water for some time, then 
allow it to settle for use. 

Water Filters. — The ordinary house- 
hold appliances for filtering water are 
rarely preventives of disease. Such 
filters are not ordinarily cleansed 
often enough, and become receptacles 
for disease germs instead of means of 
prevention. 

The better practice is to boil drink- 
ing water from twenty minutes to 
half an hour when there is danger of 
contamination. The following are a 
number of devices that may be rec- 
ommended to make muddy or other- 
wise contaminated water clear for ap- 
pearance sake. It must be borne in 
mind, however, that these processes 
and all other filters merely strain the 
water in a, mechanical way, and do 



not remove or destroy the germs of 
contagious diseases. These cannot be 
destroyed without boiling the water, 
as just recommended: 

Cistern Filter. — The rainfall col- 
lected in cisterns is a valuable source 
of water supply in localities where 
it is difScult or costly to drive a well, 
and also in regions where the water is 
hard. Rain water is soft, and hence 
especially adapted to laundry pur- 
poses. 

Cisterns should be caref uUy screened 
with wire netting to exclude insects, 
toads, and other vermin, and should 
be so arranged as not to admit sur- 
face water. They should be kept 
scrupulously clean, the first rainfall 
being excluded to allow accumulated 
dust and dirt to be washed off the 
roof. The average rainfall through- 




Cistern Made of Tile. 

out the United States on a roof sur- 
face 40 feet square will supply five 
or six barrels a day, which is sufficient 
for an average family. 
Cisterns are often built in two com- 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 117 



partments, one above the other, with 
a third compartment between, which 
should be a box containing filtering 
material, such as broken stones, peb- 
bles, charcoal, and sand. A sponge 
is sometimes placed at the outlet. 
Thus water may be received in the 
upper compartment while the lower 
compartment is being emptied and 
cleansed; then the contents of the up- 
per part may be strained through the 
filter until the lower part is filled and 
the upper part, in turn, is renovat- 
ed. The box containing the filtering 
material should be detachable, and 
this material should be occasionally 
cleansed or replaced. 

A little ingenuity in the construc- 
tion of such a cistern and filter will 
be amply compensated by a pure and 
abundant supply of soft water for 
household purposes. A round or egg- 
shaped cistern is superior to one with 
square corners, especially in the lower 
receptacle, from which the water is 
directly drawn or pumped for drink- 
ing purposes. 

Homemade Water Pilters. — Rain 
water collected in barrels from a roof 
or otherwise is a necessity in some 
localities, and is often more whole- 
some for drinking purposes than hard 
water. The following is a cheap and 
easy way to make a filter just as 
good as a patent filter costing ten 
times as much: 

Take a new vinegar barrel or an 
oak tub that has never been used, 
either a full cask or half size. Stand 
It on end raised on brick or stone 
from the ground, with the faucet near 
the bottom. Make a tight false bot- 
tom three or four inches from the 
bottom of the cask. Perforate this 
with small gimlet holes, and cover it 
with a piece of clean white canvas. 
Place on this false bottom a layer of 
clean pebbles three or four inches in 
thickness. Next, a. layer of clean 
washed sand and gravel. Place on 
this coarsely granulated charcoal 
about the size of small peas. Char- 
coal made from hard maple is the 
best. After putting in a half bushel 
or so, pound it down firmly. Then 



put in more until the tub is filled 
within one foot of the top. Add a 
three-inch layer of pebbles, and throw 
over the top a piece of canvas as a 
strainer. This canvas strainer can be 




"A Cheap and Easy Way to Make a Filter." 

removed and washed occasionally and 
the cask can be dumped out, pebbles 
cleansed, and charcoal renewed every 
spring and fall. Or once a year may 
be sufficient. 

This filter may be set in the cellar 
and used only for drinking water. Or 
it may be used in time of drought for 
filtering stagnant water, which would 
otherwise be unpalatable, for the use 
of stock. This also makes a good 
cider filter for the purpose of making 
vinegar. The cider should first be 
passed through cheese cloth to remove 
all coarser particles. 

Or a small cheap filter may be made 
from a flower pot. A fine sponge may 
be inserted in the hole and the pot 



118 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



filled about as directed for the above 
filter. It may be placed in the top 
of a j ar, which will receive the filtered 
water. 

Or a valuable substitute for char- 
coal in the above filters is sponge iron 
obtained by burning finely divided 
iron ore with charcoal. This can be 
obtained in the locality of iron mines 
or smelting furnaces. This is much 
more powerful than charcoal, and is 
said to completely purify contaminat- 
ed waters. 

ICE AKD BKFSI6EBATI0N 

Nature of Ice. — Ice is one of a 
number of substances that occupy a 
greater volume in the solid than in 
the liquid state. At the moment of 
freezing it expands with great force 
about one eleventh in bulk, as is testi- 
fied by the bursting of frozen water 
pipes. 

An interesting experiment consists 
in passing a wire through a solid 
block of ice without cutting it in two. 
The ice should be supported at both 
ends, leaving the middle free, and the 
wire over it with weights attached to 
either end. The pressure on the wire 
raises the temperature of the ice to 
the melting point and allows the wire 
to sink; but the wire absorbs some of 
the heat, and causes the water to 
freeze upon its upper surface; hence 
the seam is closed, and after the pas- 
sage of the wire the block of ice re- 
mains intact. Its course, however, can 
be traced by the air bubbles which it 
leaves behind. 

Under ordinary conditions water 
freezes at 33° F., and does not melt 
until the temperature is raised above 
that point; but under pressure, as 
above noted, ice will be converted into 
water at a lower temperature, having 
been melted under high pressure at 
18° C. If water is perfectly still it 
may be lowered to 23° F. before freez- 
ing, but the slightest jar will cause it 
to freeze when the temperature rises 
to 33° F. 

Uses of Ice. — In addition to its nat- 
ural service in transforming lakes and 



rivers during winter in northern cli- 
mates into solid roadways, ice is in 
great demand as an antiseptic or pre- 
serving agent. Formerly it was sup- 
posed that meats and carcases of ani- 
mals intended for food must be frozen 
to be preserved. The discovery of the 
practicability of preserving meats and 
vegetables by means of ice, but with- 
out freezing them, is comparatively 
recent. Now, in addition to the house- 
hold refrigerator, refrigerating cars 
convey beef, fruit, and vegetables 
across continents, and refrigerating 
steamships take tropical fruits and 
other products from southern to north- 
ern climes and return with dairy 
products, northern fruits, and other 
perishable articles that could not 
otherwise be obtained in tropical coun- 
tries. In many cities cold-storage 
houses also preserve, with a very slight 
percentage of loss, dairy products, 
meats, fruits, and vegetables for pe- 
riods varying from months to years. 
Cold-storage vaults protect furs and 
valuable garments from the ravages of 
moths and other insects. Ice is also 
now regarded as absolutely necessary 
in the summer months to preserve the 
bodies of the dead until the time of 
burial. 

To Harvest Commercial Ice. — Ice 
has been an important article of com- 
merce since the time of Nero, and in 
cold countries family ice houses are 
very common. Sometimes these stor- 
age places are merely pits or caves 
under ground, or partly under ground, 
but an ice house wholly above ground 
is to be preferred. 

Ice from salt or brackish water is 
nearly pure, as freezing expels the 
mineral ingredients, but it is sufiS- 
ciently contaminated on the surface to 
be unfit for many purposes. Hence 
the best ice crop is" usually gathered 
from fresh-water ponds, or lakes, or 
in rivers above tide water. A great 
deal of ice is also manufactured arti- 
ficially. Commercial ice houses are 
usually built of wood, having hollow 
walls that may be double, triple, or 
quadruple, the spaces between being 
filled with sawdust, spent tan bark, 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND EEFRIGERATION lid 



or some other poor conductor of 
heat. 

' In harvesting ice the usual practice 
is to scrape the snow from the surface 
of the ice by means of a scraper 
drawn by horses, to plane off the soft 
porous top of the ice if necessary by 
means of a horse planer, and to mark 
the ice into blocks by running a series 
of grooves about 5 feet apart and 3 
inches deep so as to make blocks 5 
feet square. Ice is usually cut when 
it is about 2 feet thick. After the ice 
has been marked one row of blocks is 
usually cut through by means of a 
handsaw, and pushed under out of 
the way or pulled up on the ice. The 
succeeding blocks are pried off with 
a crowbar, towed to the landing place, 
and loaded into wagons or run up an 
inclined plane to the storehouse and 
packed away. The blocks are stood 
on end in a solid mass. A space 
is left between the ice and the walls 
of the ice house in which are gutters 
and drainways to receive and carry 
off the drainage from the melted ice. 
Ice — ^Domestic Harvest. — To gather 
ice for home use, cut it as soon as it 
is thick enough, and before the sur- 
face has been covered with snow or 
has had a chance to freeze and thaw 
a number of times. If a, light snow 




"To Gather Ice for Home Use." 

falls before the ice is gathered it is 
advisable to clear off a sufficient space 
before a thaw sets in. A horse plow 
for marking the ice is desirable, and 



one can usually be borrowed if neces- 
sary, but a crosscut saw may be used. 
After one row of blocks has been 
sawed out it is only necessary to saw 
across the ends of the blocks. They 
may be separated lengthwise by mark- 
ing with an ax and splitting off with, 
an ice pick or chisel. It is not de- 
sirable to cut cakes larger than 2 by 
3 feet if the work is to be done by 
hand. Provide a runway or ice ladder 
about 36 inches wide and 13 feet long 
to reach from the sled into the water. 
Drive two upright planks or timbers 
into the ice, and attach a crossbar at 
the top of the sled on which to sup- 
port one end of the runway, the other 
reaching down in the water. Two 
men with ice hooks can puU a cake 
3 feet long, 3 feet wide, and 18 inches 
or more in depth up this runway and 
load it upon the sled without undue 
exertion. 

To Preserve Ice. — The two requisites 
to preserve ice are the exclusion of 
heat and outer air, and the drainage 
of the water produced by melting 
without at the same time allowing the 
cold air surrounding the ice to escape. 
A piece of ice of SO pounds weight 
exposed at a temperature of 80°, but 
placed on cross slats so as to be per- 
fectly drained, will not melt under 
twenty-four hours. But if exposed at 
the same temperature in a tight vessel 
that will retain the water produced by 
melting, it will dissolve in six or seven 
hours. Hence ice houses, refrigerators, 
or ice boxes should have double sides, 
bottom and top, with a space between 
the casings filled with nonconducting 
materials to keep out the external 
heat, all doors and other apertures 
should be sealed as nearly air-tight as 
possible, and the contents should be 
arranged to provide perfect drainage. 
All water must be removed at once, 
and the drainage pipe must be fitted 
with a trap so that cold air cannot 
escape nor outer air be admitted. If 
these principles are observed, any in- 
genious person can build an ice house 
or refrigerator, or design one to be 
built by a local carpenter that will 
answer all pKictical purposes. 



120 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To Make an Ice House. — The size 
of an ice house must, of course, be 
determined by the number of persons 
that are to make use of it. The in- 
terior should be so proportioned as 
to admit of packing cakes of any pre- 
ferred size, as 3 by 3 feet, in a solid 
mass, but with an air space between 
the outside of the cakes and the wall 
of the ice house to admit of drainage. 
Hence an ice house 14 by 20 feet in- 
side dimensions will admit of a layer 
of twenty-four cakes with a space of 
1 foot clear aU around. 

Such an ice house carried up eight 
or ten layers would last two or three 
ordinary families for a year. It costs 
but little more to build a good-sized 
ice house, and often two or three 
neighbors can club together to advan- 
tage, both to reduce the cost of build- 
ing the house, and also the labor of 
filling it. 

Or, if more ice is harvested than 
one family requires, it can frequently 
be sold to neighbors at a profit suffi- 
cient to admit of paying for the first 
cost and for the labor of harvesting 
the ice each year. 

To Build Ice Houses, make a frame 
of two or three joists, supported on 
posts raised a foot or more from the 
ground, and have a shed roof sloping 
to the north. Board up the outside 
and make another frame inside 10 or 
13 inches from the outer boarding, 
and fill in the space between with 
shavings, sawdust, or spent tan bark 
packed as solidly as possible. Lay a 
solid plank floor and give it a pitch 
toward one corner with an outlet for 
drainage. Bmld double doors, reach- 
ing from the outer to the inner wall 
and packed solidly with nonconduct- 
ing material. Or have a separate door 
in each wall, but the former is the 
better method. 

To Fill an Ice House. — First cover 
the floor with sawdust, tan bark, or 
other suitable material at least 2 feet 
in thickness. Lay on this successive 
layers of ice in a solid mass, but leave 
a space of 13 inches all around. Cover 
the ice and fill the pitch of the build- 
ing to a thickness of several feet with 



nonconducting material, but leave an 
air space between the top of this ma- 
terial and the roof. As the Ice is 




Homemade Tackle. 

removed from day to day for use, 
carefully replace the covering. 

To Protect an Ice House. — Build a 
cheap trellis of slats or rough poles 
8 or 10 inches from the walls aU 
around, and also extending over the 
roof, and train the common woodbine 
or English ivy, or even clematis, morn- 
ing glory, or other similar trailing vine 
to run over it. This can readily be 
done in most localities and forms a 
cheap and effective shade, that is a 
perfect defense against the direct rays 
of the sun. The trellis will prevent 
the plants from causing the boards of 
the ice house to decay, and by leaving 
a space between for circulation of air, 
will greatly assist in lowering the tem- 
perature. A mantle of vines also cov- 
ers the bare ugliness of the cheap 
boarding of an ice house and tends to 
make it an object of beauty. 

Or a skeleton ice house may be built 
by driving posts in the ground to 
make a frame and boarding them up 
to any desired height. Sawdust may 
be laid directly on the ground, but to 
prevent washouts and provide drain- 
age it is better to throw in a few large 
stones, level them roughly, and lay a 
loose board floor a foot or more from. 



HEATING, LIGHTING, AND REFRIGERATION 121 



the ground. Cover this with a layer 
of coarse hay or straw to prevent the 
sawdust from falling through, and on 
this put a foot or more of sawdust. 
Lay the ice in the middle in a solid 
mass, but leave a space of 2 feet all 
around between the ice and the boards 
and pack this space and cover the ice 
with nonconducting material, and lay 
a roof of loose boards over all, with 
an air space between. Such an ice 
house can be thrown up and boarded 
in a day while the ice is being drawn, 
and the planks can be taken down and 
stored away, if desired, as rapidly as 
the ice is removed in summer. 

Or ice may be stored in a pen made 
of rails built up corncob fashion as 
the ice is put in. A floor of rails 
should be laid a foot or so from the 
ground and covered with straw, on 
which sawdust should be packed a 
foot or more deep. Lay the ice in a 
solid mass, pack with sawdust all 
around, cover the top with 3 feet of 
sawdust, and thatch with coarse straw. 
Over this lay a shed roof of boards 
tacked down with a few nails. 

If morning glories or other quick- 
growing vines can be trained to run 
over the rails, it will greatly assist in 
preserving the ice in summer. 

Or a load of sawdust may be thrown 
on the ground, a pile of ice built up 
on this, and a rough board frame 
merely tacked together at the corners 
about 2 feet distant all around from 
the pile. This space must, of course, 
be filled with sawdust, the top covered 
over to an equal depth, and rough 
boards or canvas thrown over all. 

To Hake an Ice Chest. — A practical 
ice chest may be made by building 
a tight box of matched boards with 
double sides 6 inches apart, having an 
inner chamber 3 feet long, 2 feet deep, 
and 2 feet wide. This will hold a 
block of 100 pounds or more of ice, 
and leave room all around for milk, 
butter, fresh meat, and other articles. 
This ice box must be furnished with 
a double lid packed with charcoal or 
sawdust and fitting tightly so as to 
exclude the outer air. It will preserve 
ice practically as well as an expensive 



refrigerator. The inner compartment 
must be furnished with a small pipe 
to carry off the water from the melt- 
ing ice. 

Or a cheap ice box may be made by 
simply setting one dry-goods box in- 
side of another. There must be a 
space of 6 inches all around between 
the two. Pack this space closely with 
powdered charcoal or sawdust, and 
make a double lid, packed in the same 
manner, to fit the larger box. Provide 
a drainage pipe to remove the melt- 
ing ice. 

Or place a small cask or half bar- 
rel inside of a large cask and fill the 
space all around with charcoal. A 
tube from the bottom of the lower 
cask will carry off the melted ice. 
Furnish the inner cask with a remov- 
able lid and the outer cask with 
double cover packed with charcoal. 
Also provide a charcoal bag a foot 
thick or more to lay over the top of 
the inner cask. By filling the inner 
cask two thirds full of powdered ice, 
or with snow in winter, ices may be 
frozen in it, or by putting in a cake 
of ice it may be used as an ordinary 
refrigerator. 

Ice Bags. — To preserve small quan- 
tities of ice, make two bags of heavy 
woolen goods, one of which should be 
2 or 3 inches wider on all sides than 
the other. Place the smaller bag in- 
side of the larger and stuff the space 
between with canvas. A block of ice 
placed in a bag of this description 
will be preserved as long as in an or- 
dinary ice box. A small bit of rubber 
tubing should be inserted at one cor- 
ner to provide drainage. 

A Cooling Box. — In tropical regions 
where ice is scarce, or unobtainable, 
it is customary to construct a water- 
tight box, say 28 inches square and 
10 inches deep, which should be filled 
with water. A shelf 30 by 30 inches 
is suspended from this by four posts, 
2 by 2 inches and 36 inches long. Com- 
mon burlap sacks are tacked closely 
about the sides. Pieces of woolen 
stuff", such as old woolen imderwear, 
are placed around the edge of the box, 
with one end in the water and the 



122 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



other hanging outside and resting on 
the burlap. The whole is suspended 
in a shady place where/ the air can 
circulate freely around and through 
it, and where the sun will not shine 
on it. The air passing through the 
burlap causes evaporation of the wa- 
ter, and the burlap is kept dripping 
wet by the woolen stuff drawing water 
from the box as evaporation takes 
place. This is the principle by which 
the box is cooled. When the box is 
first filled the burlap should be thor- 
oughly wet. Afterwards, if filled reg- 
ularly, it will keep saturated. 

The box is filled with water. On 
one side the burlap is allowed to hang 
free over the suspended shelf. This 
curtain is the door of the cooler. But- 
ter placed on the shelf will keep per- 
fectly solid. Even where ice is plenti- 
ful this is a convenient way to cool 
hot dishes that you do not wish to put 
in the refrigerator. 

Care of the Refrigerator. — Put a 
saucer of unslacked lime in the re- 
frigerator to keep it sweet. Place in 
the ice chest two or three lumps of 
charcoal as large as an egg, changing 
them two or three times a month. 
They will absorb all odors of cooked 
food and the like. Keep everything 
in the refrigerator covered. Have a 
number of glass fruit jars with screw 
tops in which to place liquids, and a 
glass jar for drinking water. This 
will save cracking off ice. 

Few housekeepers take the necessary 
pains to keep the ice box scrupulously 
clean. It should be wiped out daily, 
and when the ice is exhausted, be- 
fore a new piece is put in, a strong 



solution of caustic potash or sal 
soda should be poured through the 
waste pipes to cleanse and disinfect 
them. 

To Break Ice. — Use an awl or a 
darning needle and tap it gently with 
a hammer. Make a row of holes across 
the ice, which wUl crack straight 
through beneath. 

To Preserve Ice. — To preserve ice 
it must be isolated and surrounded 
with nonconducting material. There 
must be no access of the outer air to 
the ice except on top. Cold air is 
heavier than warm, hence the air which 
has been cooled by the melting of the 
ice settles upon its surface and cannot 
be displaced by the warmer air from 
above unless the cold air is allowed 
to escape or is displaced by a current, 
which must be avoided. The larger 
and colder a block of ice is, and the 
less it is exposed to warmth before 
being placed in the refrigerator, the 
longer it will keep. 

Ice varies in temperature all the 
way from below zero to 30° F. before 
melting. Hence the fact that a piece 
of ice is not all melted by exposure to 
warm air is /no criterion that it is not 
losing heat and rapidly approaching 
the melting point. If a piece of ice 
must be exposed to warm air for a 
time before being placed in the re- 
frigerator it should be wrapped up in 
a heavy cloth or newspapers. If these 
are left on after the ice has been put 
in the refrigerator, so much the bet- 
ter. The larger the block of ice, the 
slower it melts. Hence it is economy 
to purchase ice in as large quantities 
as the refrigerator will hold. 



CHAPTER HI 

THE DAY'S ROUTINE 

KINDLING AND CARE OF FIRES — CLE AMNG AND POLISHING 
STOVES — DISHWASfflNG — CARE OF KITCHEN WARES — CARE 
OF GLASSWARE AND CUT GLASS— STEEL KNIVES AND FORKS 
—CARE OF SILVERWARE— CARE OF SINKS AND DISPOSAL OF 
GARBAGE— CHAMBER WORK— CARE OF LAMPS— PREPARATIONS 
FOR THE NIGHT 



EINDLING ANB CASE OF FIBES 

To Kindle Fires. — Suggestions for 
kindling fires must naturally be modi- 
fied according to circumstances. There 
is a vast difference between the elec- 
tric range that, by pulling a lever, can 
be instantly adjusted at any given 
temperature, the gas range that re- 
quires merely the scratch of a match, 
the coal or wood kitchen range, the 
fireplace, and the furnace. 

The principles of combustion, how- 
ever, are identical in all cases, and a 
proper understanding of these will en- 
able anyone to build a good fire as 
quickly as may be under all circum- 
stances. Combustion consists in the 
union of the oxygen of the air with va- 
rious substances, and this takes place 
at different temperatures according to 
the substances burned. Phosphorus 
has so strong an affinity for oxygen 
that, if exposed to the air, it will burn 
instantly. Hence pure phosphorus 
must be kept under water, and when 
used in making matches is mixed with 
other materials to prevent too speedy 
combustion. Sulphur kindles at a 
somewhat higher temperature than 
phosphorus, pine or other soft woods 
at still higher temperatures, and so on 
with charcoal, coke, hard wood, coal, 
and various other kinds of fuel. 
Hence two things are necessary to 
kindle a fire: a draught of air to sup- 
ply plenty of oxygen, and heat enough 



to cause the oxygen to unite freely 
with the kind of fuel used. 

All substances may exist in three 
forms, as gases, liquids, or solids — as 
in the case of steam, water, and ice — 
and of these three forms, since the 
oxygen of the air can penetrate quick- 
ly to every part of it, the easiest to 
kindle is gas. 

Heat decomposes solid substances 
and liquids, and causes them first to 
melt and afterwards to turn into gas, 
or, in the case of compounds, into 
various gases, or in some cases to im- 
mediately throw off various gases 
without the preliminary stage of melt- 
ing. The flames that rise from the sur- 
face of fuel are caused by the gases 
thrown off in the process of combus- 
tion. Hence, when heat enough is 
supplied to cause fuel to decompose 
into various gases, these may be read- 
ily kindled, and those forms of fuel 
that throw off inflammable gases at 
the lowest temperatures are most suit- 
able for kindling. Kerosene oil, for 
example, at ordinary temperatures will 
put out a match as readily as water, 
but at about 110° to 125° F. it com- 
mences to throw off a volatile and in- 
flammable gas, and at a still higher 
temperature it maybe instantly trans- 
formed into gas by means of what we 
call an explosion. 

The difficulties to be overcome in 
kindling a fire are to raise the mass 
of fuel to a sufficiently high tempera- 



123 



124 



HOUSfittOLD DISCOVERIES 



ture, so that inflammable gases will be 
released and kindled; also to shield 
the fuel from the surrounding atmos- 
phere (which tends to cool it), and at 
the same time to furnish, by means of 
a draught, a sufficient supply of oxy- 
gen to promote combustion. 

Wet or green wood, especially hard 
wood in large, solid chunks, and soft 
or hard coal in large lumps, are diffi- 
cult to kindle, because they are very 
cold, and because only a comparatively 
small surface is exposed to the action 
of heat from materials used as kin- 
dlings. It is quite common to notice 
in building fires that large chunks of 
coal or wood become kindled and burn 
for a, time, but afterwards go out. 
This is because the heat of the kin- 
dlings warms the surface of the 
chunks enough to drive off the inflam- 
mable gases in small quantities, but 
is not sufficient to warm the re- 
mainder to a point where the oxygen 
could combine and continue the com- 
bustion. Indeed, the charred or par- 
tially burned surface may shield the 
heart of the chunk by preventing the 
oxygen from reaching it. Hence, to 
make combustion possible, there must 
be sufficient heat to cause the entire 
chunk to throw off inflammable gases. 

Another difficulty is to admit enough 
air to supply the oxygen necessary to 
combustion, but not enough to put out 
the fire by lowering its temperature. 
The difficulty of kindling a fire in a 
grate is due to the fact that the con- 
tact of air above and around the fuel, 
which is not and cannot be consumed 
in the process of combustion, tends to 
cool it and thus to retard combus- 
tion. Hence a draught should pass 
through the fire from beneath, and 
be regulated in such a way that no 
more air will be admitted than is 
required. 

The explanation of the draught is 
found in the well-known fact that hot 
air rises. When a fire is well under way 
a considerable current of heated air 
rises through the stovepipe and chim- 
ney, which creates a. strong draught. 
This, if not regulated, makes the fire 
roar and send up sparks that may set 



fire to the chimney or even to the roof. 
A feeble flame like that of a match 
creates very little suction. Hence to 
start a draught is one of the prob- 
lems of fire building. 

To Clean the Fire Box. — The first 
step in building a good coal or wood 
fire is to dmnp the grate, clean out 
the fire box, and remove the ashes 
from the ash pit beneath. The grate 
should be thoroughly freed from clink- 
ers. The object of cleaning the grate 
and fire box is both to remove ashes 
that would take up heat at the ex- 
pense of the kindling, and to admit 
the oxygen of the air through every 
part of the grate so as to kindle the 
fire uniformly and to penetrate every 
part of the fire box. No time is gained 
in attempting to kindle a stove or fur- 
nace fire on top of old coal or ashes. 
The fire wiU kindle slowly if at all, 
will burn unevenly, and will be likely 
to go out during the day. 

Chicken, turkey, and goose wings 
will be found useful to brush out the 
fire box of a range, hearth, or cook 
stove. 

The object of cleaning out the ash 
pit is to create directly below the 
flame an empty air chamber in which 
the air will be warmed by radiation 
downward before it is drawn up into 
the fire. 

To lay Fires. — If the fire in a cook 
stove or range is allowed to go out at 
night, it is advisable to lay a fresh 
one in readiness for kindling next 
morning. Whatever kindling matter 
is employed should first be laid on 
the clean grate over the whole surface 
of the fire box. The substances used 
for kindling are usually of two sorts, 
one lighter and more inflammable than 
the other, as paper, excelsior, kero- 
sene, or the like for the first, and 
kindling wood, charcoal, or coke for 
the second. Whatever kindling matter 
is employed, the most inflammable 
should be first laid over the whole 
surface of the grate, and in such quan- 
tity as to certainly kindle the second. 
The second layer in like manner should 
cover the whole grate and in such 
quantity as to certainly kindle the 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



ns 



fuel. And sufficient fuel should be 
laid on the top, or added at the proper 
time after ignition, to maintain the 
fire and to kindle additional fuel, thus 
forming a bed of coals across the en- 
tire iire box. 

The mistakes usually made in Are 
building are to use too little kindling, 
to lay kindling over a part of the 
grate instead of covering it; to use 
too much kindling and dispose it in 
such a way as to choke the draught, 
or to smother the kindling by covering 
it with such a large amount of cold, 
heavy fuel as to choke the draught 
and lower the temperature below the 
kindling point. 

Hence a smaE amount of kindling 
spread uniformly over the iire box 
and lightly sprinkled with a small 
amount of coal or fed with a few 
small sticks of wood in the beginning 
will kindle a iire more quickly and 
surely than a much larger amount so 
disposed as to choke the draught and 
immediately smother it. Hence also 
such kindling as excelsior, which is 
finely cut and at the same time springy 
and elastic, by admitting the air to 
every part, heating quickly, and throw- 
ing off a large quantity of inflammable 
gases, is better than leaves of books 
or newspapers, which tend to mat 
down and prevent the draught from 
comiog through. Coke and charcoal 
are good kindling because they are 
porous, friable, and burn evenly for 
a long time. 

To lay a Furnace Fire. — ^Lay first 
sufficient paper or excelsior across the 
iire box to kindle the wood; on this 
lay a light wood kindling split fine 
and built corncob fashion clear across 
the fire box, placing the sticks closely 
enough to prevent the coal from fall- 
ing through, but not to prevent the 
draught from coming up. A little 
coke or charcoal or a layer of hard 
wood across the fire box will serve to 
create a bed of coals to ignite the 
heavier fuel. But do not use more 
wood than is necessary; less wiU be 
required where the coal is not too 
coarse. Stove coal is large enough for 
most furnaces, and the smallest coal 



that the grate will admit will be found 
to give the best results. 

After lighting the kindlings throw 
on j ust sufficient coal to make a single 
layer sprinkled evenly across the fire 
box. Keep the drauglit open until this 
is flaming brightly and cover with a 
thicker layer, also sprinkled evenly. 
When this burns up the fire box may 
be iUled as needed. 

Kindlings. — The kindling matter 
most commonly used consists of paper, 
light pine or other resinous woods, 
pine cones, cobs with or without kero- 
sene, charcoal, coke, and various com- 
pounds of resin, tallow, tar, turpen- 
tine, and the like. 

Paper as Kindling. — If the leaves 
of old books, magazines, and news- 
papers are used as kindling, they must 
not be laid in the grate flat or bound 
together. Even two or three thick- 
nesses laid side by side tend to protect 
one another and to be only partly 
burned or charred. The flat surfaces 
often faU across the grate and ob- 
struct the draught. Hence \ise sepa- 
rate sheets of paper, crumple and 
twist them into loose rolls, and lay 
these across the grate corncob fashion, 
leaving spaces between the roUs to 
admit the air to every part. 

Wood as Kindling. — If light pine 
or other resinous woods are used as 
kindling they should be split very fine, 
or in two grades, one iiner than the 
other, and the sticks should be short 
enough to lie straight in the grate, and 
not stand partly on end so as to pro- 
ject above the coal or other fuel. In 
fact, the best wood kindlings are those 
sold in cities and made by tying vidth 
tarred rope at intervals of two or 
three inches apart a bundle of strips 
sawed from pine slabs, and sawing 
across the bundles between the ties. 
Hence these kindlings are in chugks 
two or three inches long, which lie 
evenly across the fire box and admit 
the air in every part. Such kindling 
may be obtained very cheap at any 
sawmill and is a great convenience. 

Or excelsior is perhaps the most use- 
ful of all wood kindlings, and in many 
localities one of the cheapest. 



126 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Coke and Charcoal. — An enterpris- 
ing citizen in a small New England 
city has built up a comfortable for- 
tune by selling charcoal in large paper 
flour sacks at ten cents a sack and ad- 
vertising its virtues as a fire kindler. 
It can, however, be bought very much 
cheaper in quantities, and if used with 
economy need not be regarded as an 
expensive luxury. 

Kerosene as Kindling. — The fact 
that kerosene oil gives off at a com- 
paratively low temperature a very in- 
flammable gas, and that in most fam- 
ilies it is always at hand, causes it, 
notwithstanding the dangers that at- 
tend upon this practice, to be used 
quite generally for the purpose of 
kindling fires. The principal danger 
in the use of kerosene is that of ex- 
ploding a considerable quantity con- 
fined in a tin can or other tight pack- 
age. If oil is poured on a fire from 
a can the fire will foUow the? stream 
up to the can and explode it, throw- 
ing the burning liquid in aU directions, ' 
besides causing injury from shock. 
Many explosions have occurred in this 
way from live coals in the grate or 
ash pit when it was supposed that the 
fire was entirely out. Hence imder 
no circumstances should kerosene be 
poured from a can into a stove or fur- 
nace. This rule is the more impera- 
tive and sensible because the practice 
is neither necessary nor desirable. 

Better and quicker results can be 
obtained by first pouring the kerosene 
into an open vessel, as a cup or an old 
tomato can, and dashing it over the 
kindling in such a way as to spread 
it over the largest possible surface. 
Kerosene may be thrown on a fire in 
this fashion with no more danger than 
attends upon a puff of flame from the 
inflammable gases piroduced. Hence if 
it is employed at all, a cup or small 
basin should be set apart for this pur- 
pose and invariably used. 

Or pour a quart of a cheap grade of 
kerosene into a milk pan or tin bucket 
and fill it full of cobs standing on 
end. Cover with another milk pan or 
pail to prevent evaporation. The cobs 
wUl thus absorb enough oil to start 



fires quickly. They ean be handled by 
the upper end, to which the oil does 
not penetrate. When a cob is re- 
moved, a fresh one may be put in its 
place, and thus a quart of oil will 
start a large number of fires. This 
method of handling kerosene is cheap, 
clean, and entirely safe. 

Or a torch such as is used by train- 
men, in parades, etc., may be lighted 
and held beneath the grate until the 
fire kindles. It must, of course, be 
removed before the heat is sufficient to 
cause an explosion. 

Pine Cones as Kindling. — In some 
locaUties pine cones a^e plentiful, and 
as they are light, easy to get, and full 
of resin, they make excellent kindlings. 
Or pine cones, if desired, may be 
saturated with kerosene the same as 
cobs. 

Gas as Kindling. — Where gas is 
burned in the kitchen or in the cellar 
it may be used conveniently to kindle 
fires in the range or furnace. A gas 
burner may be obtained for a few 
cents and connected with a neighbor- 
ing gas jet by a length of flexible 
gas pipe. The whole equipment should 
cost less than a dollar. After the fuel 
has been laid the burner may be lit 
and inserted below the grate as near 
to the coal as possible. This kindles 
the fire surely, quickly, and econom- 
ically, and avoids the trouble of pro- 
viding other kindling and the litter 
of handling and cleaning it up. This 
method will kindle any fire where the 
grate can be reached from below. 

Hatches. — Have a match box near 
the range attached to a piece of sand- 
paper and put the matches in the box 
head down. Then you will always 
know which end to strike. Have a 
separate receptacle for burnt matches. 

To Quicken low Fires. — When a 
coal fire burns low, throw a table- 
spoonful of salt on the coals. Or put 
in an old ham or shoulder bone from 
which the meat has been taken. This 
burns a long time and with great heat. 
Or use old corks and empty spools for 
this purpose. 

To Make Kindlings. — To make kin- 
dlings for home use or for sale, obtain 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



127 



a quantity of clean fine sawdust free 
from all moisture. Prepare a smooth, 
flat surface of boards by tacking them 
close together across a pair of carpen- 
ter's horses and spread a layer of saw- 
dust over them. Dissolve in a large 
set kettle any quantity of resin and 
tallow, in the proportion of 3 ounces 
of tallow to 1 pound of resin, and stir 
in sawdust of pine or other resinous 
wood to make the mixture as thick 
as possible. Spread this while hot 
upon the boards, smoothing it across 
the top by pressing a board upon it, 
and if desired mark it off into squares 
with a straightedge. When dry these 
squares can be broken apart and used 
for kindling fires, or sold at a profit. 

Or melt 1 quart of tar in S pounds 
of resin, stir, and remove from the 
fire. While cooling add J pint spirits 
of turpentine and stir in sawdust 
from pine or other resinous wood, with 
or without finely powdered charcoal. 
While hot spread out on boards cov- 
ered with a layer of sawdust, and 
when cold break up into small lumps 
for home use or sale. 

Kange Fire — To Save Coal. — To 
economize coal in the kitchen range, 
keep the draughts closed when special 
heat is not required for cooking, iron- 
ing, and the like. Do not try to keep 
the fire box banked full of burning 
coals merely to keep up the fire. After 
any special cooking is finished, rake 
out the ashes lightly from below and 
sprinkle fresh coal evenly over the hot 
fire with a shovel. Keep the draughts 
closed unless gas escapes into the 
room. In that case, open them until 
blue flames dart across the coals. This 
is a signal that the gas has been 
ignited. The draughts may then be 
closed and the dampers opened. If 
the draught is strong the stove covers 
may be tilted slightly. Thus managed 
a, range fire will keep for many hours 
and consume but little coal. When 
■ heat is required close the dampers and 
open the hearth draught, and the fire 
will start up quickly. 

To Shake and Clean a Range Fire. 
— Keep ashes from the edges of the 
fire box and the center will take care 



of itself. Never shake or clean a fire 
unless it actually needs it. If there 
is a bed of live coals under the fresh, 
black coal leave it alone. To, shake 
down the fire at night and clean out 
the ashes in the morning is sufScient, 
unless additional heat is required for 
a special purpose. ' 

Care of Furnace Fire. — Keep the 
coal piled up in the center and lower 
at the sides. If the coal banks up at 
the sides, leaving a hole at the heart 
of the fire, it gradually cools and dies. 
Shake down the furnace thoroughly at 
night, remove the ashes, add fresh 
coal, and leave the draught open until 
blue flames are seen darting across the 
coal. This is necessary to avoid gas 
escaping and filling the house. The 
fire will not require additional shaking 
except in the coldest weather. 

Coal for Range and Furnace. — The 
smallest size of coal that the grate 
will adipit will give the most satisfac- 
tory results. By kindling range or 
furnace fires with coke, thus forming 
a bed of coals across the grate, pea 
coal may be burned. This is the 
cheapest fuel and lasts the longest. 
Next to this chestnut coal is the most 
economical. 

To Bank Range and Furnace Fires. 
— Do not bank fires with ashes or cin- 
ders. Use buckwheat or pea coal for 
this purpose, or buy a ton of screen- 
ings. Shake down the fire, fill the fire 
box with fresh coal, allow it to come 
up, and sprinkle on top a layer of 
fine coal or screenings. This banks 
the fire night and day, and gives an 
even, continuous heat. 

Or use the dust and broken coal 
that accumulates in the bottom of the 
coal bin. 

Fuel Economies. — Use the ash pan 
of an old-fashioned base burner in 
which to cook Boston baked beans, 
Indian pudding, and the like. Clean 
out the ash pan and cover the dish 
containing the food with a granite 
iron kettle, or otherwise, so that the 
ashes from above cannot get into it. 
These articles require long, slow cook- 
ing, and this plan saves keeping two 
fires all day. 



1^8 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or a fire may be kept in a common 
stove for several hours when required 
for this purpose by lighting the fire 
on one side only and thus saving about 
half the fuel. 

To Burn Old Papers. — Twist and 
roU them up in small rolls and lay 
them lengthwise on the grate. Thus 
they will burn slowly, like logs, with- 
out flaming up. 

To Prevent Clinkers. — Clinkers are 
formed by earthy substances, which 
ordinarily fall through the grate as 
ashes, becoming melted and vitrified 
by excessive heat. Hence, to prevent 
clinkers, control the draught, bank the 
fire, and do not allow it to rage. 

To Remove Clinkers. — If the grate 
and walls of the fire box become cov- 
ered with melted clinkers, throw oyster 
or clam shells on the bed of hot coals 
and allow the fire to go out. This 
will weaken the clinkers so that they 
can be easily removed. Repeat if nec- 
essary. Use 1 or 2 quarts of shells 
for a range, or a peck or half a bushel 
for a furnace. Or sprinkle salt on the 
clinkers to loosen them. 

CLEANING AND FOLISHING STOVES 

Care of Kitchen Bange. — Remove 
cinders and ashes each morning, brush 
out the inside of fire box and flues, 
and brush off the outside with wings 
or a hair brush; wash off the stove, if 
greasy, with soda and water and a 
piece of flannel. Blacken and polish. 

Clean steel fittings from rust with 
sweet oil or kerosene and polish with 
emery. Clean brass fittings with em- 
ery or bath brick by means of flannel, 
and polish with chamois. Clean the 
hearth with hot water and soda by 
means of a flannel cloth. 

Care of Stoves. — The cook stove or 
range may be kept in good order by 
a daily brushing or rubbing and by 
a thorough blacking and polishing 
once a week. 

Cook Stove — To Keep Glean. — Sprin- 
kle a little salt over anything burning 
on the stove to remove the dirt. Have 
at hand small sheets of sandpaper to 
remove whatever adheres. 



To Keep the Hands Clean. — Before 
polishing the stove rub lard under the 
finger nails. 

Dilute the polish in a saucer with 
water or vinegar, and apply with a 
common dishwashing mop. Draw over 
the hand a small paper bag, and pol- 
ish with a flannel or other cloth. 

Or use a polishing mitten, but the 
liquid blacking wiU work through the 
polishing mitten and soil the hands, 
whereas the paper bags can be changed 
as fast as they become soiled. 

If the hands become soiled with 
blacking, first rub them thoroughly 
with lard, then wash with soap and 
water. 

Stove Blacking. — Dissolve J ounce 
of alum in 1 giU of soft water. Add 
6i pounds of plumbago mixed with 13 
ounces of lampblack. Stir vigorously. 
Stir in IJ giUs of molasses, next J bar 
of white soap dissolved in 3 pints of 
water, and lastly 1 ounce of glycerin. 
This is a commercial article which has 
a great reputation. 

Or beat up the whites of 3 eggs and 
mix in J pound of black lead. Dilute 
with sour beer or ale to the consist- 
ency of cream, and boil gently for 15 
or 20 minutes. 

Or mix 8 ounces of copperas, 4 
ounces of bone black, and 4 ounces of 
black lead with water to the consist- 
ency of cream. 

Or melt 1 pound of hard yellow 
soap with a little boiling water, and 
while hot stir in 1 pound of powdered 
soft coal. Cool, and preserve in tight 
fruit jars or wide-mouthed bottles 
for use. 

Or mix 4 ounces of black lead with 
2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and a piece of yel- 
low soap the size of a butternut. Melt 
the soap with gentle heat and reduce 
while hot to the consistency of cream 
with coffee strained through a cheese 
cloth. Stir in J teaspoonful of alum. 

Or use vinegar instead of water for 
mixing any of the above. The work 
of polishing will not be so hard, and 
the polish will last longer. 

Or mix with oil of turpentine. This, 
prevents and removes rust. 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



129 



Or add a little sugar or alum to 
aay of the above; or a little benzine 
or naphtha to help cut the grease. If 
these are added the stove must be pol- 
ished cold. 

To Apply Polish. — Apply stove pol- 
ish in liquid form by softening with 
a little vinegar or turpentine, and 
spread on with a dishwashing mop 
or wide painter's brush. 

Or rub a piece of flannel with wet 
yellow soap. Dip it into dry pow- 
dered blacking and apply. This saves 
friction and makes the labor of polish- 
ing much easier. 

Or, if a stove is much covered with 
grease, mix powdered blacking with 
gasoline and rub it on rapidly with 
flannel. Clean the stove thoroughly 
as you go, as the gasoline evaporates 
quickly. Of course the stove must be 
entirely cold. 

To Polish Stoves. — Polishing cloths 
may be purchased, or a substitute may 
be made from any old glove or mitten 
by sewing to the palm several thick- 
nesses of outing flannel, velveteen, or 
a piece of sheepskin with the wool on. 

Or polish the stove with newspapers. 

Or take a large paper bag, insert 
the hand part way, and crumple up 
the remainder to polish with. 

Or use the paper that electric-light 
globes are cleaned witli. This can be 
bought of any electrical plant, and will 
give a fine polish as well as econo- 
mize blacking. 

Or use a piece of velveteen.' This is 
one of the best of polishing substances, 
and has the advantage of being wash- 
able. 

To Clean Nickel. — Clean the nickel 
or other metal trimmings on stoves 
with whiting. Mix to a thin paste 
with aqua ammonia or water, or both. 
Cover the parts with this and allow it 
to dry. Afterwards rub it ofl' and pol- 
ish with dry flannel or polishing cloth. 

Or apply baking soda diluted to a 
thin paste vrith aqua ammonia. 

Care of New Stoves. — A new stove 
should be heated gradually, and the 
oven door should be left open for half 
a day or more before it is used. If 
a new stove is allowed to become too 



hot there is danger that it may be 
cracked or warped. If an oven is 
overheated the first time it will not 
retain the heat well afterwards. Iron- 
ware of all kinds should first be tem- 
pered by gradual heat. 

Stove Holders. — Pew homemade 
gifts will be more appreciated than 
a general supply of kitchen holders. 
A half dozen is not too many to have 
at hand in the kitchen at all times, 
and two or three times as many 
should be provided, as there will al- 
ways be some in the wash. They can 
be made of odd pieces that would 
otherwise go to waste. Stove holders 
. containing a thin sheet of asbestos 
between two pieces of canvas or other 
cloth are perhaps the best noncon- 
ductors. Thin asbestos cloth comes 
by the yard at a small price,- and a 
single thickness, protected by two 
pieces of cloth, makes a holder that 
is quite fireproof. 

Or, in place of asbestos, use square 
pieces of leather cut from old boot 
tops. 

White duck or canvas is the best 
material, as, if the holders are made 
so that the asbestos is removable, the 
covers can be washed and kept clean. 

Or use outing flannel or other pieces 
of heavy goods. Also 8- or 10-inch 
squares of heavy canvas will be found 
useful in addition to the smaller sizes. 

A large pair of loose mittens of 
canvas or outing flannel lined with 
asbestos will be found very useful to 
take hot dishes out of the oven, and 
for other use about the stove. Fasten 
to these a stout cord or piece of tape 
about 3 feet long, and when much 
cooking is to be done slip one of them 
under the apron band or belt. Thus 
both will be suspended so that they 
will always be at hand. 

Old stocking legs, especially of wool, 
which is a nonconductor, make good 
holders. Fold the legs inwardly three 
times to form a square, stitch across 
it, and also stitch it diagonally in a 
crisscross pattern, an inch or two 
apart, on the sewing machine, to pre- 
vent wrinkling in the wash. Two old 
stockings prepared in this way and 



130 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



stitched together at the sides and ends 
so as to admit of a removable square 
of asbestos between make the best 
kitchen holders. Or they may be cov- 
ered with strong washable material, 
as denim or duck. Attach loops of 
strong tape at one or more corners, 
or sew on brass curtain rings and 
hang them on a nail or hook near the 
stove. 

Or cover the holders with pieces of 
ticking or cretonne or worn-out over- 
alls. Two holders fastened together 
by a piece of tape about 18 inches 
long and hung by the apron belt are 
a great kitchen convenience. 

Uses for Asbestos. — Asbestos is a 
fireproof substance which is found in 
the earth in a natural state. It has a 
short fiber, but whether it is of animal 
or mineral origin is not known. The 
commercial article can be purchased 
in the form of cloth or boards of vary- 
ing degrees of thickness, or mixed with 
cement in strong, smooth plates. As- 
bestos is the best protection possible 
against heat, and has numberless uses 
in the household. A piece of hard, 
smooth asbestos board under the range, 
cook stove, parlor stove, gas stove, or 
small oil stove, is superior to iron or 
zinc because it is durable, easier to 
keep clean, and presents a better ap- 
pearance. The woodwork near stoves 
may be protected by the same mate- 
rial, also the collars above stovepipes 
where they pass through the ceiling 
and side walls. 

Candle lamp shades may be pro- 
tected by a collar or lining of asbes- 
tos ; dinner mats, either square or oval, 
made of two thicknesses of linen, with 
an opening at one end to admit a 
square of asbestos, will prevent the 
hot tea or coffee pot or dishes con- 
taining hot food from injuring the 
tablecloth or the polished surface of 
the table. Holders of washable ma- 
terial containing a removable square 
of asbestos are light, fireproof, and 
convenient, and asbestos mats lined 
with wire have many uses about the 
stove. They may be placed in a hot 
oven to prevent cakes and pies from 
burning on the bottom, and also on 



the top of the stove to prevent the 
contents of kettles and saucepans 
from burning. A small asbestos mat, 
wire lined, with a hole cut through 
the asbestos in the center, but not 
through the wire, will be found useful 
for warming milk and other things in 
cups and small saucepans with round- 
ed bottoms. The heat is applied to 
the bottom instead of the sides, and 
the vessel will not tip over. 

To Clean Grates. — ^When stirring the 
coal or wood in an open grate fire, 
spread a newspaper in front of the 
grate, or clear across the hearth if it 
is a small one, and work while the 
paper burns. The flames will cause 
a rushing draught that will carry the 
dust up the chimney. 

Or, to prevent the dust flying, if 
the fire is out, sprinkle a handful of 
wet tea leaves over the ashes. 

To Clean a Hearth. — Cover grease 
spots on the hearth with hot ashes or 
live coals, or sprinkle fuller's earth 
on the spots. Cover with live coals 
and brush away after the grease has 
been absorbed. 

To Black a Hearth. — Shave J bar 
of yellow soap into 1 pint of boil- 
ing water and stir in J pound of black 
lead. Boil 10 or IS minutes, stirring 
vigorously. Dilute with water if nec- 
essary, and apply with a brush. 

Or beat up black lead with white of 
eggs. Lay on with a brush and polish. 

Care of Matches. — Keep a stock of 
matches on a high and dry shelf in a 
covered earthen jar or tin box with 
a tight lid where they will be out of 
the way of children and safe from 
rats and mice. These animals are fond 
of phosphorus, and will gnaw match 
heads if they can, and often set them 
on fire. Have a covered match safe 
in each room where they are in fre- 
quent use. A match safe fastened to 
a piece of sandpaper will be found a 
great convenience. To hold burnt 
matches, a wineglass suspended with 
a bit of ribbon and hung on the gas 
jet or near the stove will be found 
useful. 

To Clean a Gas Range. — Do not 
black a gas range, but wash the 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



131 



greasy parts in a strong solution of 
potash lye or sal soda, afterwards 
thoroughly clean and dry. Do not 
put blacking or anything else on the 
burners, as it is likely to clog them 
and interfere with the flame. 

Carff of a Gas Range. — Keep the 
gas stove clean both inside and out. It 
is not hot enough to burn off or absorb 
vegetable or animal matter. Hence 
it should never be blacked, as the 
blacking is likely to rub off on the 
clothing. As soon as it is dry and 
while still warm rub every portion, 
inside and out, thoroughly with an 
oily cloth. Use kerosene for this pur- 
pose, or a very little lard or suet, but 
olive oil is probably the most desirable. 
Do not wash the stove or apply an 
oily cloth while it is cold or while the 
burners are in use. To do so will 
cause rust, cakes of fat, or disagree- 
able odors when the stove is next 
lighted. 

If the stove is to be detached and 
stored away, it should be thoroughly 
cleaned and given a coat of some rust- 
proof varnish. 

Care of Burners. — Never black 
the top of a perforated or any other 
burner. Clean it with a damp cloth, 
and while warm wipe it off with an 
oily cloth to make the red burned 
appearance less pronounced. If the 
burners are removable boil them from 
time to time in borax water. But 
some burners cannot be removed un- 
less taken apart. When this is done 
take care to get the burners back in 
their right places. Especially the 
giant or large burner must be attached 
to its right key or gas outlet, other- 
wise it will not get the proper flow 
of gas. 

The burners should always be warm 
when washed, and after being dried 
should be replaced on their keys, 
lighted at once, and burned a few 
seconds or until the flame Is clear. If 
particles that have been released in 
the pipe leading to the burner lodge 
in the pipe, tap the pipe leading from 
the key to the burner. This dislodges 
the particles and allows the gas to 
carry them on and out through the 



burner. When sweeping cover the 
range well, or else particles of dust 
may lodge on or in the burners, and 
be carried into the air mixture, 
whence they produce flames full of 
red specks. 

Care of Air Kixers. — Just back of 
the keys in every gas range is a, round 
device with from 3 to S slots or open- 
ings. This regulates the air supply. 
These may be called the lungs of the 
gas stove, since through them tlie burn- 
ers take in the air necessary to insure 
perfect combustion. Hence these parts 
must be kept free and clear of any 
accumulation of dirt, or the flame 
will have a white luminous tip, which 
will smut pans and lessen the amount 
of heat. Too much care cannot be 
taken to keep these air spaces clear 
and free. They must be frequently 
wiped out. 

Care of the Oven. — rGreat care must 
be taken to keep the racks of the oven 
clean, especially if they are of sheet 
iron or heavy wire, since they may be 
utilized in liiany ways. Remove them 
occasionally and scrub them with pot- 
ash lye or strong solution of sal soda 
by means of a stiff fiber brush. Rinse 
with boiling water and dry thoroughly 
before returning to the oven. Never 
broil anything on the top of the stove, 
as the unconsumed food and grease 
will drop down and clog up the burn- 
ers, and can only be removed by boil- 
ing in strong lye. 

To clean oven doors lined with alu- 
minum, mix whiting and potash or sal 
soda with water and scrub by means 
of a stiff brush. After baking or 
roasting, wipe out the oven while still 
warm. Use an old newspaper for this 
purpose. This will save much future 
trouble in scrubbing. 

To wash the drip trays, take them 
out while warm, fill them with boiling 
water in which a little caustic potash 
or sal soda is dissolved, and scrub 
with a coarse fiber brush. 

To kill the odors of cooking, put a 
few pieces of charcoal tied with a 
piece of white cheese cloth in cabbage, 
onions, or similar dishes. This will be 
a great help in reducing the odor. 



132 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To Light Gas Stoves. — In lighting 
the top burners do not be in a hurry. 
Locate the burner you wish to use, 
and with your eye follow the pipe 
from the burner down to the keys in 
front of the rangp, so as to be sure 
you turn the proper key. When you 
turn on the gas count five; meanwhile 
strike a match. After the fifth count 
apply the match to the back of the 
burner, bringing it forward over the 
burner. TMs method of lighting is 
almost sure to prevent the snapping 
sound sometimes heard. 

If spurts of flame are not seen at 
all the holes in a burner, a slight 
breath directed across the flames will 
cause all the jets to light. 

To prevent snapping and burning 
of gas in the air mixers, loosen the 
front of the air mixer just behind the 
key, and reduce the opening until the 
burner can be lighted. There should 
never be a, white tip on the flame. 

Waste of Gas. — Turn down the 
burner as soon as the food begins to 
cook. When water bubbles the burner 
should be turned down. It is a com- 
mon mistake to suppose that when the 
water in a dish or vessel reaches the 
boiling point it will continue to get 
hotter if the gas is left turned on full. 
In fact, water turns to steam at the 
boiling point, 212° F., and does not 
get any hotter, but merely evaporates 
more quickly; and there is not only 
waste of gas but additional trouble in 
replacing the water lost by evapora- 
tion, as well as the liability of food 
burning or cooking into a sticky mass 
on the bottom of the saucepan. When 
food begins to cook, the valve or cock 
can be turned off two thirds. Do not 
turn on the gas and go hunting for 
a match in another room. Do not 
light the burners, and then stop to 
prepare vegetables or hunt up sauce- 
pans. Light the burner just as you 
reach the range, saucepan in hand, 
ready to begin cooking, and turn off 
the gas as soon as the saucepan is 
removed. 

Obtain a set of two semicircular or 
three triangular saucepans that can 
be placed on a single burner at the 



same time. They economize space and 
gas, as two or three vegetables can be 
cooked at the same time over the same 
burner. 

Ironing with Gas. — Get a strip of 
metal large enough to hold four or 
five flatirons, and heat the irons on 
this. A single gas burner will heat 
the metal from end to end, and thus 
do the work of three or four. The 
same strip of metal can be used for 
making griddlecakes. Turn over the 
irons a metal pan so as to save the 
top heat, and turn the gas down low. 
With care, four or five flats can be 
kept hot at a cost of about ten cents 
for an ordinary ironing. Do not put 
flatirons directly over a gas flame, as 
the watery vapor from the flame will 
rust and consequently roughen them. 

Or get a flatiron heated with gas, 
which can be connected with rubber 
gas tubing. Several of these irons 
are on the market, and with proper 
adjustment will give satisfactory re- 
sults. 

Broiling with Gas. — To broil with 
gas, light the burner about ten min- 
utes before the meat is put into the 
broiling compartment. Take off the 
excess of fat, wipe the meat with a 
damp cloth, slice the gristle to keep 
the edge from curling, and lay the meat 
on the gridiron as close to the fire as 
possible. Always leave the broHing- 
oven door open to prevent the meat 
from taking fire. 

Put a little water in the drip pan to 
catch and cool the melted fat. 

DISHWASHING 

There is no single operation of 
housekeeping in which system will save 
so much time as in dishwashing. Sys- 
tem is only force of habit and soon 
becomes second nature. The follow- 
ing suggestions are condensed from 
the practical experience of a large 
number of intelligent housewives. 

(1) Wash the cooking utensils as 
soon as the food is emptied out of 
them and before it is placed on the 
table. Or, if this is not convenient, 
fill them with hot water and leave 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



133 



them to soak. (2) After the meal is 
finished, and before clearing the table, 
prepare a place in the kitchen to re- 
ceive the soiled dishes. (3) Scrape off 
all bits of food into one dish, using 
preferably a good plate scraper of 
sheet rubber. This will remove all 
food and grease, and will not injure 
the most delicate china. If greasy 
dishes are not scraped, the dishwater 
will become too foul, and it will be 
difficult to wash or wipe the dishes 
clean. Greasy dishwater also makes 
the sink difficult to clean, and tends 
to stop up the spout. If a little lye 
is scattered over very greasy dishes, it 
will cleanse them readily by partially 
transforming the grease into soap. Be 
careful not to use lye strong enough 
to injure the skin. (4) Sort the dishes 
and stack them up in an orderly way, 
with the smallest articles on top ; place 
the glass, small china articles, silver, 
and other delicate pieces together; 
next, cups and saucers, sauce dishes 
and the like, and finally plates, plat- 
ters, and larger objects. (5) Load 
these lots on a large tray in the above 
order, carry them to the kitchen, and 
keep them separate until they are 
washed, wiped, and put away. This 
method saves frequent steps to the 
kitchen as well as confusion in sorting 
them there. Lay a newspaper or piece 
of wrapping paper over a large pan, 
scrape all the garbage into that, and 
if possible burn it in the range. Or 
use a small garbage burner. Or ob- 
tain a good, odorless garbage can that 
can be thoroughly disinfected and 
cleaned. Keep at hand a grease kettle 
in which to preserve scraps of grease. 
Sprinkle a little lye on the most greasy 
cooking utensils, as skillets, iron fet- 
tles, and platters, and rinse them into 
the grease pot. The lye will keep the 
grease sweet and assist in the process 
of soap making. Save the tea leaves 
to be used for sweeping. (6) Next 
prepare a suds with soap or any wash- 
ing compound. Borax is good. Wash 
first in hot suds the silver, glass, and 
delicate china, using a swab with a, 
long wooden handle. Wipe the silver 
as soon as it is washed. Put the glass 



and china in a wire basket, and pour 
hot water over them. (7) Place the 
second lot of dishes — cups and saucers, 
vegetable and side dishes — in the dish- 
water, and allow them to soak while 
the first lot are being wiped. (8) Add 
hot water if necessary, wash the sec- 
ond lot of dishes, set them in the 
drainer, and place the third lot in the 
suds, or make new suds for it if neces- 
sary. (9) Next make fresh suds for 
milk pans, if any, and other tinware. 
Finally, wash the ironware — roaster, 
gridiron, pots, and kettles. Use for 
this purpose a little lye and scrape 
with a stiff fiber brush. 

Conveniences for Dishwashini:. — 
The process of dishwashing will be 
much simplified if a large bench or 
table can be arranged to stand beside 
the sink, with the china cabinet or 
pantry for the ordinary tablewkre 
placed just above it.' In many mod- 
ern kitchens (especially in city apart- 
ment houses) an arrangement which is 
ideal allows the dishwasher to wash, 
dry, and put away most of the dishes 
without leaving the sink. The time 
and steps lost in walking from the 
sink to the table, even if but a few 
feet distant, and thence to pantry or 
closet, is a waste of energy that can 
never be justified. If, for any reason, 
a permanent bench or table cannot be 
placed near the sink, get a movable 
folding table like a sewing table, or 
a shelf arranged to let down against 
the wall. A small shelf or cupboard 
above the sink to contain soap, borax, 
washing powder, and various utensils 
will be found convenient. 

The sink should be placed high 
enough so that the dishes may be 
washed without stooping. The top of 
the adjacent table should be slightly 
above and overlapping the sink, and 
with just enough slope to let the wa- 
ter drain back into it. Or a small 
cleat may be tacked on the edges of 
the table, front and back, projecting 
about a quarter of an inch, and the 
whole covered with oilcloth. This will 
let the drainage water flow back into 
the sink, and the top of the table can 
be easily kept both dry and clean. 



134 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Provide a strong stool, high enough 
to allow sitting down at the sink to 
pare vegetables and for other pur- 
poses. 




"Air ts Admitted to Every Part." 

Convenient utensils are: a swab 
made by fastening strips of linen or 
cotton to the end of a wooden handle; 
a small brush, like a nail brush, and 
a larger scrubbing brush for cleaning 
vegetables; a soap shaker, which may 
be homemade; a pot scraper, which 
may be an ordinary clam shell; and a 
wire dish drainer, either bought or 
homemade, which may be hung on a 
neighboring wall. A closet under the 
sink is not advisable. It is better to 
have the plumbing exposed and paint 
"the under portion of the sink white, 
or cover it with white enamel. This 
may be done by any member of the 
family. The wall behind the sink 
should be protected by zinc, and if 
the table is covered with zinc instead 
of oilcloth, so much the better. 

Or a curtain of any soft, cheap ma- 
terial may be hung against the wall 
so that the lower edge will just reach 
the table top. This should be of 
washable material so that it can be 
changed weekly. A line of strong cord 
or picture wire should be strung near 
at hand to hold the dishcloths and 
towels. The garbage can may be 
placed under the sink or to the right. 



A three-cornered wire drainer, fas- 
tened in the corner of the sink, will 
be found convenient' to receive vege- 
table parings, and also to strain the 
dishwater. A small shovel of cast 
iron, similar in shape to a fire shovel, 
will be a. great convenience to lift 
scraps from the sink to the garbage 
can. 

Have one or more wood fiber brushes 
to clean dishes, kettles, and pans. The 
fibers are stiffer than bristles, and 
hence do more effective work. A whisk 
or two will clean an empty potato or 
gravy kettle as soon as the vessel is 
emptied. A convenient size for brush 
is 2 by 2i inches. 

■Washboard. — Hang beside the sink 
■ a small washboard. Use this to rub 
out dishcloths, and to keep towels 
sweet and clean. 

Hinged Table. — A hinged table or 
bench that can be let down, and lifted 
up against the wall when not in use, 
is often convenient in a small kitchen, 
or where an ordinary table would be 
in the way. Have this bench or table 
just high enough to let down over 
one's lap when sitting in a chair. A 
great deal of work can thus be done 
sitting. 

Or use an ordinary collapsible sew- 
ing table for this purpose. 

Dishwashing Machines. — Many un- 
successful attempts were made in the 
past to invent dishwashing machines. 
Some of these took more time to clean 
than was required to wash the dishes 
themselves. Good ones can now be 
purchased, however, that will -wash 
the dishes not only quicker, but bet- 
ter, than by the old-fashioned way. 
These machines are simple in construc- 
tion, are easily cleaned, and, if given 
proper attention, will last many years. 
They are constructed with a galvan- 
ized iron cylinder, which is to be half 
filled with water containing any good 
washing compound and brought to a 
boil. The dishes are put in a cylin- 
drical basket or tray, the plates and 
platters placed on edge and held, 
by brackets. Saucers, cups, and side 
dishes are placed beside them, the 
basket is lowered into the cylinder, 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



135 



revolved two or three times by means 
of a. crank, reversed, and the dishes 
are deansed. The tray is then taken 
out, and if the dishes are scalded 
with boiling water, very little wiping 
will be required. When we reflect 
that in many families of average size 
upward of three hours a day are de- 
voted to washing dishes, or that ap- 
proximately one fifth of the waking 
moments of thousands of intelligent 
women are occupied in this manner, 
we cannot but earnestly urge the aver- 
age family to make whatever sacrifices 
may be necessary to provide the house- 
wife with this and all other improved 
labor-saving devices. This, we think, 
will also be found a. key to the solu- 
tion of the much-vexed problem of 
domestic help. 

Dish Draining. — If the table be cov- 
ered with oilcloth or zinc, the edges 
raised, and the whole slightly tilted 
so as to empty into the sink, a wire 
basket may be the only dish strainer 
required. A homemade article may 
be prepared from an ordinary soap 
box by lining the bottom with zinc. 
A cleat may be tacked on the bottom 
at one end to tilt the box, and by 
boring auger holes a slit may be made 
at the opposite end to allow the water 
to escape. Place this dish drainer on 
the table in such a way that the open 
end will proj ect over the sink. Through 
holes bored at intervals in the sides 
of the box thrust old broomsticks or 
other rods to hold plates and saucers 
upright to dry. Cover the box with 
oUcloth or stain it to match the kitchen 
woodwork. 

Or an old dish pan may be used 
by perforating the bottom with holes 
by means of a hammer and round wire 
nails. Place the draining basket, pan, 
or box to the left of the dish pan to 
avoid unnecessary handling. If the 
handles are front and back, as you 
face the dish pan you will have fewer 
pieces of nicked china. If lye is used, 
and the dishwater is fairly hot and 
soapy, dishes rinsed with cold water 
will dry in the rack bright and shiny 
and not require wiping. 

Or, if thoroughly rinsed viath hot 



water, they may be allowed to dry in 
the same way. 

Or, if the table is not wanted for 
immediate use, lay a large dry cloth 
over it, put the dishes on this to drain, 
and throw another cloth over the whole 
to keep off dust and flies. This is a 
rough-and-ready method for drying 
dishes and saving the labor of wiping 
and putting them away. 

Or a drainer may be made of an 
old dripping pan or roaster by clean- 
ing it thoroughly and covering it in- 
side and out with a coat of enamel 
paint. Make a hole in one end to 
allow the water to drain into the sink, 
and place in it a wire dish strainer. 

Milk Dishes. — ^Milk pans, pitchers, 
and tumblers which have contained 
milk, and dishes in which milk or milk 
puddings have been cooked, should be 
first rinsed with cold water. Hot wa- 
ter converts the casein of the milk 
into a kind of cement or glue which 
is hard to remove. 

Milk Cans. — These should be fiUed 
with cold water and allowed to soak. 
Put them away from the stove. Rins- 
ing with cold water will assist in 
keeping the milk dishes sweet and pre- 
vent the milk from souring. After- 
wards pour out the cold water, wash 
in hot soapsuds or borax water, rinse, 
and scald. 

To Remove Odors. — ^Dishes which 
have been used to cook fish or cab- 
bage, or anything else having a dis- 
agreeable odor, may be cleansed by 
first washing them and then rinsing 
them with powdered charcoal. 

Or set the dish after washing in a 
warm oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 

Or fill the dish with boiling water 
and drop into it a piece of charcoal. 
A lump of charcoal left in a closed 
bottle or jar will keep it from be- 
coming musty. The water in which 
cabbage has been cooked should not 
be poured down the sink, or, if this 
must be done, the sink should be 
rinsed with water containing powdered 
charcoal or a little chloride of lime. 

A new wooden vessel, as a pail, a 
keg, or a churn, will often communi- 
cate a woody taste to food, whether 



136 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



solid or liquid. To prevent this, scald 
the vessel with boiling water and let 
it stand to soak until cold. Then 
wash well with a strong lye of wood 
ashes or caustic potash containing a 
small quantity of slacked lime. Re- 
peat if necessary. Scald with hot wa- 
ter, and rinse with cold. 

Sleeve Protectors. — An old pair of 
stockings may be converted into use- 
ful sleeve protectors by cutting off the 
feet and hemming the cut edge. These 
may be drawn over the sleeves of a 
clean gown if necessary when washing 
dishes. They are also useful in other 
kinds of housework. 

Dishcloths. — Unravel coarse manila 
rope and use the loose mass as a dish- 
cloth. This is especially useful for 
cleansing cooking, tin and ironware 
utensils; also for scouring and scrub- 
bing table shelves, paint, sinlss, and 
other rough surfaces. 

Or save cloth flour sacks, sugar, salt, 
and corn-meal bags, and use them as 
dishcloths, dusters, etc. They keep 
white and last longer than ordinary 
towel stuff. To wash flour sacks, turn 
them wrong side out and dust the 
flour from them; afterwards wash in 
cold water. Hot water will make a 
paste of the flour. 

Or use cheese cloth for both wash- 
ing and wiping dishes. This is better 
than crash, especially for drying silver ' 
and glassware. 

Or use scrim or cotton imderwear 
crocheted about the edge, or folded 
and hemmed double. 

Or make dishcloths of worn dish 
towels. 

Or use the fiber of the so-called 
dishrag gourd, the seeds of which 
may be obtained from any seedman. 

Or try grass toweling. This is, of 
course, fibrous material, which is eas- 
ily rinsed. 

Best of all for many purposes is a 
small dish mop which permits of the 
use of boiling hot water and strong 
washing powder. With a little prac- 
tice, the hands may be kept out of the 
water altogether. 

Dishcloths — Care of. — The dishcloth 
must be kept clean. A greasy dish- 



cloth affords a breeding place for the 
germs of diphtheria, typhoid, and 
other filth diseases. Wash in soapsuds 
and rinse in cold water, or add lemon 
juice and salt to the water, or a tea- 
spoonful of kerosene. 

Dish Towels. — Any of the above 
fabrics recommended for dishcloths 
may be used for dish toweling. Large 
flour sacks are the right size. So are 
old pillow slips cut in halves, or dish 
towels may be made from old sheets. 

Or cut up old garments of outing 
flannel, which has great absorbent 
qualities, to the size of dish towels. 
Hem, and add tape hangers. 

Or make hangers of lamp wicking. 

Or use blue and white striped tick- 
ing from old pillow cases. 

Dish Towels — Care of. — Two or 
three dish towels shoiild be used at 
each meal, and these should be washed 
in soap and water, rinsed and hung 
to dry, rather than allowed to dry 
when soiled with more or less greasy 
dishwater. 

Hanging Towels. — Roller towels are 
perhaps most convenient and satisfac- 
tory for kitchen use, but if these are 
not used, sew tape hangers at each 




" The Best Towel Racks." 

end of common towels so that they 
can be turned about when one end 
is soiled and worn equally at both 
ends. 

Or make hangers of smaU lamp 
wicks, one at each end, turning the 
ends in with the hem. Keep a stock 
of half a dozen or more dish towels 
and hangmg towels, and mark them 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



137 



1, 2, 3, 4, S, 6. This makes it easy to 
account for them and to use them in 
rotation. 

CASE OF KITCHEN WABES 

To Keep Ironware Clean. — Rub 
soap thickly on the bottom of an iron 
kettle or saucepan which is placed di- 
rectly over the fire of a coal range; 
this will prevent the soot burning on. 
Lard or other grease may also be 
used, but is not so good. 

To Clean Cooking Utensils. — After 
emptying food from cooking utensils, 
do not take them off the range dry. 
Pour a little water in them, cover 
closely, and set them back on the 
range. If a steady fire is kept the 
steam will loosen any fragments of 
food so that the utensils will be very 
easily washed. , 

Or, if possible, take them to the 
sink and wash them immediately be- 
fore placing the food on the table. 
They will never be easier to clean than 
now, and thus the most difficult part 
of dishwashing will, be out of the way 
before the table dishes are brought in. 
Keep a can of lye dissolved in water, 
and if the article is very greasy rinse 
with this and pour into the soap kettle. 

If iron kettles or other metal cook- 
ing utensils have become coated with 
soot, boil them in water with a gen- 
erous quantity of potash or soda lye. 
Boil vigorously for a time, and the 
soot will become so loosened that it 
may be removed by wiping off with 
soft paper. Dip them in hot water to 
rinse, before touching them with the 
hands, as the lye wiU injure the 
skin. 

Or keep at hand a piece of coarse 
sandpaper and with it rub kettles in 
which food is burned on. Or use a 
clam shell as a scraper. This is better 
and more convenient than a knife. 
Or scour with finely sifted coal ashes 
and a flannel rag, 

A frying pan should not be scraped. 
FUl it with cold water containing a 
teaspoonfuL of sal soda, and let it 
stand until the dishes are washed for 
the next meal. 



To Kemove Unst from Ironware. — 
Cover the rusted article with grease, 
and set it in a hot oven for half an 
hour. Afterwards wash with soap and 
water, and the rust will be removed. 

Copper Ware. — Copper kettles should 
not be used unless they are perfectly 
bright and clean. To polish copper 
ware, apply hot salt and vinegar, and 
scrub with a stiff nail brush. Or rub 
with flannel dipped in hot water and 
sprinkled thickly with powdered borax. 

Or dip a cloth in kerosene or gaso- 
line, sprinkle it with a mixture of bath 
brick or ground pumice, and polish. 
For large copper boilers or other uten- 
sils which are not used for the prepa- 
ration of food, apply with a damp 
cloth or nail brush a saturated solu- 
tion of oxalic acid in its own bulk of 
water, and scour with bath brick and 
pumice stone softened with olive oil. 
It must, of course, be borne in mind 
that oxalic acid is a deadly poison. 

Enameled Ware. — Scraping ruins 
enameled ware. Utensils of this ware 
placed directly over the flame of a 
coal range should be protected by 
rubbing the bottoms thickly with soap. 
Any soot which burns on may then be 
removed by soap and water. If food 
burns in any enameled-ware utensils, 
put into them a teaspoonful of sal 
soda or caustic lye to a quart of wa- 
ter and boil for fifteen minutes. This 
wiU soften the burned food so that it 
can be removed without scraping. If 
not quite clean, scour with fine sand 
soap. For discolored saucepans boil 
a little chloride of lime in the water. 
Or boil in them a strong solution of 
baking soda. 

Various Utensils. — After using the 
egg beater rinse it in cold water be- 
fore it gets time to dry. 

Before using the food chopper, run 
a piece of suet through it, and follow 
with another piece after the food has 
been chopped. This will keep it clean 
and in good condition. 

Run rice or bread crumbs through 
the spice mill after grinding orange 
or lemon peel, or the coffee mill may 
be used for this purpose and cleaned 
in the same way. 



138 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Dip the colander, sieve, or grater in 
a pan of water to prevent drying, and 
afterwards clean with a stiff vegetable 
brush. Rinse and dry. 

Fur on Kettles. — To prevent fur 
from gathering on the inside of a tea- 
kettle, put an oyster shell or piece of 
marble inside. Change this occasion- 
ally. 

To remove this furry deposit from 
heavy iron kettles, fill with water, add 
a large spoonful of sal ammoniac, and 
bring to a boil. Empty the kettle 
and let it stand over the fire until 
very hot, when the fur will peel off. 
Afterwards fill with water containing 
sal soda, boil, and rinse. 

The furry deposit may also be dis- ' 
solved in a weak solution of muriatic 
or acetic acid, but it must be remem- 
bered that these are deadly poisons. 
Immediately fill the kettle with water, 
add 2 to 4 ounces of hyposulphide of 
soda or baking soda, and boil. Let 
this stand in the kettle for two or 
three days, and afterwards rinse with 
boiling water. 

Teakettle. — Put an oyster shell in 
the teakettle to prevent Its becoming 
incrusted with lime. Polish occasion- 
ally with a woolen rag moistened with 
kerosene. 

Tinware. — To cleanse tinware mois- 
ten either brick dust or whiting with 
aqua ammonia, kerosene, or washing 
soda. Care must be taken not to use 
lye in cleaning tins, as it will injure 
them. 

To Prevent Kust on Tin-ware. — 
After washing and wiping tinware, 
place it on the back of the range or 
other warm placfe until it is thorough- 
ly dry. To protect new tinware rub 
lard over every part of the tin and 
set it in the oven until it is heated 
through. This makes the tin perma- 
nently rust proof. 

To Prepare New Tins. — New tins 
are often covered with rosin or other 
substances which should be removed 
before using. Fill with boiling water 
and add sal soda or aqua ammonia at 
the rate of a tablespoonful to each 
quart of water. Boil and afterwards 
scour. 



To Wash Tinware. — Fill greasy tins 
with water, add a tablespoonful of 
sal soda, and place on the back part 
of the range. Or use hot water con- 
taining a teaspoonful of aqua am- 
monia. 

To Scour Tins. — Use sifted coal 
ashes moistened with kerosene. Or 
use whiting with kerosene. Or fine 
sand, or bath brick, followed by whit- 
ing. Or polish with brown paper mois- 
tened in vinegar. Damp flannel or dry 
chamois may be used for polishing tin- 
ware. Afterwards wash in soapsuds, 
rinse, and dry. 

To Clean Coffeepots. — Rub salt on 
the inside of u. coffeepot to remove 
coffee and egg. Rinse quicUy and 
thoroughly. 

To Clean Wash Boilers. — If rusty, 
grease with lard and wash off with 
sweet milk. Dry thoroughly before 
storing away. 

To Clean Earthenware. — To clean 
earthenware articles, as pots or jars, 
yellow-ware bowls, pie plates, etc., put 
them in a kettle with cold water, ashes, 
and sal soda, bring to a boil, and 
after boiling let them stand twenty- 
four hours in the lye. 

Or fill the vessels with hot lime wa- 
ter and let them stand twenty-four 
hours. 

Or scour, rinse, and wash with soap- 
suds. Afterwards scour with charcoal 
powder and fill with water containing 
lumps of charcoal. This will remove 
all lingering odors. 

To Repair Cracked Articles. — If 
earthenware or china articles begin to 
crack, put in them a tablespoonful of 
sugar and half a tumberful of water, 
and set over a brisk fire. Paint the 
inside of the vessel, especially the 
cracks, with the melted sugar. The 
sirup will enter the cracks and act as 
a cement. This can be used for pie 
plates and other earthenware utensils 
used in cooking. 

Earthenware baking dishes in which 
food is burned on should not be 
scraped. Put in the vessel a little 
ashes or borax or baking soda, and 
fill with cold water. Set on the stove 
and raise slowly to a boil. Set aside 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



1391 



to cool, and wash with hot soapsuds 
and a small stiff brush. Scald and 
wipe dry. 

To remove brown stains from cus- 
tard cups, pie plates, and the like, use 
dry whiting applied with a damp flan- 
nel, or bath brick, scouring sand, or 
pumice. A piece of zinc shaped like 
the corner of a square tin is a great 
convenience in cleaning the corners of 
baking dishes and similar utensils. 
Punch a hole in it and hang it on a 
neighboring wall. 

Tea and Coffee Pots. — Metal tea 
and coffee pots, if allowed to. stand 
for a time, often get a musty odor. 
To prevent this, put a lump of dry 
sugar in them before putting them 
away. This absorbs the dampness 
which produces must. To clean and 
brighten the inside of these articles, 
fill with water and ^dd a piece of 
hard soap. Boil for half an hour. 

Or rub on a little salt and immedi- 
ately rinse thoroughly. 

Kettle Lids. — ^When these lose their 
handles, substitute a small block of 
wood by driving a screw through a 
tin into the lid from beneath. 

Wooden Ware. — Do not wash the 
bread board, wooden bread platter, or 
roUing-pin in hot water. Wash with 
warm soapsuds and rinse in clean cold 
water. 

Copper Ware. — Copper ware was 
formerly quite generally used for 
cooking utensils, and especially for 
large kettles, because of its durability. 
This ware is now being largely re- 
placed by aluminum ware, which is 
equally durable, much lighter, and 
free from danger. 

If copper- ware utensils are used it 
must be borne in mind that they are 
acted upon by moisture and by the 
fatty acids contained in fats and oils, 
the result being a carbonate of cop- 
per, and also by acetic acid contained 
in vinegar, the result being acetate of 
copper or verdigris. Both of these 
are deadly poisons, hence when copper 
vessels are used to cook food or for 
other purposes they should be imme- 
diately emptied and cleaned. Wipe 
them dry and keep in a dry place. 



They should be again cleaned before 
they are used, by scrubbing with hot 
salt and vinegar, and afterwards scald- 
ing with boiling water. 

Or use hot buttermilk and salt for 
this purpose. 

To Clean Japanned Ware. — Trays 
and other articles of japanned ware 
are quite commonly used, as they are 
light, cheap, and convenient. They 
must not be washed in hot water, 
strong suds, or water containing free 
alkali in any form, as sal soda, caustic 
lye, and the like, or with washing pow- 
ders concerning which we know little. 
These take off the lacquer and may 
cause the ware to chip and scale. 
Wash them with a sponge or soft 
cloth in suds made of hard white or 
other neutral soap and cold or warm 
water. Afterwards wipe dry and 
sprinkle with flour. Polish with a dry 
cloth or chamois skin. Do not let 
them stand to drain dry or to dry by 
evaporation, as they may be stained. 
Never put hot articles on them. 

To remove the white marks left by 
heat or water stains, apply sweet oil 
with a flannel cloth or sponge and 
afterwards rub with alcohol. 

CASE OF GLASSWABE AND 
CTTT GLASS 

To Wash Glassware. — Glass is a 
very poor conductor of heat, and more 
valuable glass articles are broken by 
hot water, perhaps, than in any other 
way. To prevent this various precau- 
tions may be used. Place the glass on 
a steel knife blade, or put a silver 
spoon inside. The most delicate glass- 
ware can be washed in hot water if 
slipped in edgewise, outside or con- 
cave side first, and quickly and com- 
pletely immersed. Once make this a 
rule, and it soon becomes a matter of 
habit. 

Or first immerse the glassware in 
lukewarm water and increase the tem- 
perature by adding hot water grad- 
ually. 

Or use tepid water with soda, or 
clear cold water. 

Chamois may be used to dry glass- 



140 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ware, or any cloth, such as scrim, 
which does not have a nap. 

Many persons prefer to wash glass- 
ware in hot soapsuds. 

Glassware which has been used for 
milk should be first rinsed in cold wa- 
ter, as hot water causes the milk to 
adhere and gives the glass a cloudy 
appearance. 

Cut Glass. — Wash cut-glass articles, 
one piece at a time, in warm suds 
made of castile or other fine white 
soap, and rinse in warm water con- 
taining a few drops of aqua ammonia. 
Save old silk handkerchiefs or other 
pieces of white wash silk to dry cut 
glass, or use a soft Unen towel. Dry 
without draining. Polish with a soft- 
haired brush, such as is used by jew- 
elers. This will penetrate every part 
of the pattern. A stiU more bril- 
liant result can be produced by dust- 
ing the article while wet with jew- 
eler's sawdust. This can be brushed 
off when dry and used repeatedly. 
It may be obtained of any jew- 
eler. 

To Clean Bottles. — Various sub- 
stances and a number of ingenious 
methods are employed to ,clean water 
bottles, wine decanters, milk bottles, 
and medicine bottles, the inside of 
which cannot be reached by ordinary 
methods. Among these are heavy ar- 
ticles as tacks and shot, or lighter 
ones, as crushed eggshells, raw pota- 
toes chopped fine, bits of cloth or 
paper to dislodge dirt and for me- 
chanical cleansing. Also lye and vari- 
ous acids, as lemon juice, sour milk, 
and dilute hydrochloric acid. 

For coarse and heavy articles, like 
glass milk bottles and fruit jars, use 
a handful of carpet tacks or common 
shot. Fill the jar or bottle half full 
of soapsuds, add the tacks or shot, and 
shake well. If tacks are used their 
sharp edges will scrape off the dirt, 
but will also scratch the bottle. Hence 
they are not suitable for wine or vine- 
gar cruets, whether of plain or cut 
glass. If shot is used care must be 
taken that none of them are suffered 
to remain in the cruets, or in bottles 
used to contain any. acid, as the action 



of acid upon lead produces a deadly 
poison. 

Or use one tablespoonful of crushed 
eggshells in the same manner. If the 
bottle is greasy wash with warm water 
and a little soda, or run a raw potato 
through the meat chopper, put it in a 
bottle of warm water, and shake until 
clean. This is one of the most effective 
cleansers knovra. 

Or cut into fine pieces white or 
brown paper or blotting paper and 
use with warm soapsuds. Or use a 
swab of cotton at the end of a long 
stick or wire. 

To Clean with Lye. — Clean medicine 
bottles, vinegar cruets, fruit j ars, milk 
bottles, and all but the most delicate 
glassware by putting in each a table- 
spoonful of wood or coal ashes. Im- 
merse them in cold water, and gradu- 
ally heat the water until it boils. 
Afterwards wash in soapsuds, and 
rinse in clear water. 

Or use a tablespoonful of dissolved 
potash, or soda lye. 

To Clean Cut Glass and Fine Glass- 
ware. — Cut glass and very fine glaiss 
water bottles, decanters, and vases 
may be cleaned by first placing the 
decanter on a steel knife blade, or 
dropping into it a piece of silver, and 
then pouring into it equal quantities 
of hot vinegar and salt. When the 
decanter has become warm put in the 
stopper and shake thoroughly. 

Or put in two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar and a tablespoonful of baking 
soda. This wiU effervesce vigorously. 
Hold the article over the sink, but do 
not put in the cork, or the vessel may 
burst. 

Or fill with buttermilk, let stand 
forty-eight hours, and wash in soap- 
suds. 

Or rinse with a weak solution of 
muriatic acid. 

To Clean Vases. — When the inside 
of a glass or other delicate vase be- 
comes discolored and stained from 
flower stems, put a little water into 
the vase and add several slices of 
lemon, including the rind. Let stand 
a day or two. Rinse vrith clear water. 

To Sweeten Ilnsty Bottles. — Rinse 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



141 



with water containing one or two 
teaspoonfuls of powdered charcoal, 
or rinse with a dilute solution of 
sulphuric acid at the rate of about 
two ounces of acid to a pint of 
water. 

To Wipe Glass. — Glassware should 
be wiped dry as soon as it is lifted 
from the water without waiting for it 
to drain. For glassware use scrim or 
towels which have no lint. 

Or rinse the articles with cold water 
and allow them to dry without wiping. 
They will be much clearer than if 
wiped with a cloth. 

To Polish Glassware. — Save all tis- 
sue paper to polish glassware. Or 
save scraps of chamois. Cut these 
into inch squares and string on twine 
with a, darning needle as beads are 
strung. Use this to polish glassware. 

STEEL EKIVES AND FOBES 

Carving knives and forlis, steel-blade 
knives used for roasts and game, 
and kitchen knives require special care 
to keep them in good order. Wrap 
the best knives and forks in cotton 
batting or strips of cotton flannel or 
outing flannel. Each dozen of knives 
and forks may be rolled up in a sepa- 
rate strip, or pockets may be made 
for them of suitable material in which 
they may be slipped and put away out 
of the reach of dampness. 

To prevent rust when not in use rub 
the steel with sweet oil or olive oil. 
Dampen a cloth with the oil and wipe 
them lightly so as to give them a thin 
coating before putting away. Or put 
powdered quicklime in a small cheese- 
cloth bag and dust steel knives and 
forks with this before they are wrapped 
up and put away. 

Or keep in the pantry a deep box 
or earthen jar containing fine, dry 
sand and plunge the blades into this 
when not in use. This will prevent 
rust and all necessity of scouring. 

To Wash. — Steel knives and forks 
should never be allowed to stand long 
before cleaning, but should be washed 
as soon as possible after being used. 
The fatty acids contained in grease. 



and the fruit acids contained in salad 
dressings, vinegar, tarts, etc., will etch 
and stain the metal until they are re- 
moved. Collect the steel knives and 
forks as soon as the dishes are cleared 
away and soak them in a vessel of hot 
water. Wash in hot suds and water 
and then polish. 

To Scour. — Brick dust, pumice stone, 
rotten stone, sifted wood or coal ashes, 
baking soda, and bath brick are all 
recommended for cleaning steel knives. 

Make a bag of two pieces of old 
carpet, one 6 inches square and the 
other about 3 inches longer. Place the 
faces together and bind the edges with 
cloth or tape, leaving one end open 
with a 2-inch flap to fold over and 
fasten with a button. FiU this bag 
one fourth full of brick dust, shake 
well, and polish the knives in this. 
They will thus be cleaned on both 
sides at once. 

Or cut a raw potato in half and 
dip in brick dust or other cleanser, 
and with it rub the knives and forks. 

Or rub with a cloth moistened 
with kerosene and dipped in the dry 
cleanser. 

Or use the same as brick dust pow- 
dered charcoal, rotten stone, water, 
lime, or sifted wood or coal ashes. 

To Kemove Rust. — Moisten a rag 
with kerosene oil, dip it in dry brick 
dust and rub the knives with it. 

Ivory-handled Knives. — Keep the 
ivory and bone handles of steel-bladed 
knives out of water, especially hot 
water. After they have been used, set 
them in a deep dish or pitcher so that 
the water will cover the blades but 
will not touch the handles. Do not 
have the water too hot, or the part 
which runs up into the handle will 
expand and crack the bone or ivory. 
After washing the blades with soap 
and water, wipe the handles with a 
damp cloth. 

To Fasten Knife Handles. — If a 
bone or an ivory handle comes off the 
knife, mix a little plaster of Paris with 
water to a thin paste, pour it into the 
hole in the handle, insert the blade, 
and when cold it will be solid. 
Or fill the hole with powdered alum. 



142 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Heat the steel end quite hot and push 
it into the hole. When cold it will be 
firmly fastened. 

To Bleach Ivory Knife Handles. — 
For whitening ivory the bleaching ac- 
tion of sunshine on a moist surface is 
recommended. Spirits of turpentine, 
alum, lime, potash, prepared chalk, 
ammonia, lemon juice, and pumice 
stone are also used. 

Make a paste of prepared chalk 
with aqua ammonia and olive oil. 
Cover the articles with this, and when 
dry rub it off. Repeat if necessary. 
Or rub with a cloth moistened in tur- 
pentine. Or moisten a cloth in vine- 
gar dipped in brick dust, and rub. Or 
dip half a lemon in salt and rub; 
afterwards rinse in warm water. Or 
make a paste of slacked lime and wa- 
ter, apply with a wet doth, and rub 
off when dry. Or use a mixture of 
whiting and potash lye. 

CAHE OF SIIVEBWABE 

The problems connected with the 
care of silverware are the daily clean- 
ing, the daily and weekly polishing, 
the prevention of stains and discol- 
orations, and the removal of these 
when formed. It is advisable to have 
a regular time for polishing silver 
each week, according to the conveni- 
ence of the housewife. In many 
households this is done on Saturday 
with other cleaning, as a part of the 
general preparation for Sunday when 
guests are often entertained and it 
is desirable to have the silver looking 
its best. 

To Pack and Store Silver. — Silver- 
ware which is not in daily use should 
be protected from contact with the 
air, which often contains traces of 
sulphureted hydrogen or marsh gas. 
This is the great enemy of silver. It 
occurs in illuminating gas, sewer gas, 
and many other compounds, and con- 
taminates the atmosphere. Retail 
jewelers prevent the discoloration of 
silver which is exposed for sale in shop 
windows by coating the articles with 
collodion diluted with alcohol. Col- 
lodion may be obtained at -any drug 



store or from a dealer in photographic 
supplies. To apply it first wash the 
articles, dry them, and heat them 
slightly over the fire. Apply the col- 
lodion with a wide, soft brush, laying 
it on in quick, even strokes. 

Collodion is a very quick dryer, 
hence it is necessary to have all the 
silver heated and in readiness and to 
work quicldy. Care must be taken 
to cover every part of the surface. 
One coating is sufficient. Collodion 
is perfectly transparent, hence does 
not injure the appearance of the arti- 
cles, and may be removed by washing 
in hot water. This is perhaps the most 
perfect protection for silverware that 
has to be stored for any length of time. 

Or pack the silverware in wooden 
starch boxes or other boxes of con- 
venient size and cover them with dry 
flour. This will prevent them from 
tarnishing. When the flour is wiped 
off they wiU be polished and in readi- 
ness for use. 

Or prepare cloth bags or pockets 
for silverware. Use for this purpose 
unbleached outing flannel, cotton flan- 
nel, or other unbleached goods. The 
bleaching powders and other prepara- 
tions of chlorine used in whitening 
fabrics will discolor silverware. 

Or wrap the articles in blue or other 
dark-colored tissue paper. White pa- 
per, like bleached fabrics, contains 
chemicals which discolor silver. 

Or wrap the articles in green baize, 
which does not attract moisture. Place 
in each pocket or drawer in which 
silver is kept a lump of gum camphor. 
This is the best preventive against 
tarnish. 

The best material with which to line 
the drawers of serving tables, trays, 
or boxes for silverware, or of which 
to make bags or pockets, is chamois 
skin. If the outside of the chamois skin 
is treated with melted white wax or 
beeswax applied with a soft brush and 
afterwards run over lightly vrith a hot 
iron, it will be nearly air-tight. 

Silverware Pockets. — The most 
convenient method of disposing of 
silver for daily use is a wide, shallow 
drawer in a serving table or sideboard, 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



143 



and with or without racks and trays 
to receive the individual pieces of sil- 
verware. The drawer should be lined 
with chamois skin, velvet, or flannel, 
and the silverware ranged in it in or- 
derly fashion. 

Or silverware pockets may be made 
of outing flannel and tacked on the 
back of the cupboard or pantry door. 
Take a strip of material the width of 
the door and about 18 inches deep. 




" Or Silverware Pockets May Be Made." 

Fold the lower part upon the upper, 
leaving room for a wide hem or head- 
ing at the top. Stitch down the fold- 
ed part on the sewing machine, leav- 
ing separate pockets for knives, forks, 
and other articles. Face the heading 
with a strip of canvas or other heavy 
material as a stay when tacking to 
the woodwork. 

Or make a simUar pocket with a 
lapel at the top instead of a hem. 
Fold or roll up in this the silver which 
is to be put away. 

To Wash Silver. — To wash silver 
prepare suds with boiling water, in 
which dissolve about an ounce of hard 
white soap to a quart of water, and 
add a teaspoonful of soda. Into this 
put the silver pieces and boil them for 
a few minutes. Pour off the suds, 
pour over them clean boiling water, 
wipe them dry on a clean towel with- 
out draining, and polish with a piece 
of chamois skin. 

To Folish Silver. — All plate and 
silverware which is in regular use and 
not stored in such a way as to pro- 
tect it from discoloration should be 
carefully polished once a week. It is 
best to have a regular time for this 
purpose. Never use sand or scouring 
soaps, pumice stone, or gritty wash- 



ing powders for silverware, or any 
other polishes the nature of which you 
do not understand. Many of them will 
scratch the silver, and others will dis- 
color it. 

Articles recommended for polishing 
silver if not much stained are whiting 
— either fluid, dry, or moistened with 
alcohol or sweet oil — prepared chalk, 
cream of tartar, milk, or a solution 
of alum. 

To apply these use chamois skin or 
velveteen. Or use pieces of old woolen 
or flannel underwear or pieces of old 
linen tablecloths. 

Or apply with an old toothbrush or 
a nailbrush with soft bristles. 

Or prepare and have ready polish- 
ing cloths as follows: dissolve half a 
cupful of scraps of castile or toilet 
soaps, or any hard white soap, in a 
cupful of water, and allow to cool. 
This will make a soft-soap jelly. Stir 
into this when cold 3 heaping table- 
spoonfuls of powdered whiting. In 
this soak suitable pieces of cloth, as 
old flannel underwear, pieces of table- 
cloths, and the like, letting them ab- 
sorb as much as possible. Wring them 
out so they will not drip, and allow 
them to dry. These are convenient 
polishing cloths for silver, as they are 
always ready. 

Or moisten whiting with soapy water, 
rub it over the silver carefully, and 
allow it to dry on. Then rub it off 
with a very soft woolen or linen cloth. 
Use a soft brush to remove the whit- 
ing from carvings or deep cuttings 
and rough surfaces of the larger sil- 
ver articles. 

Caution. — Care must be taken in 
polishing silver not to use too much 
force, as severe rubbing will wear solid 
silver and soon wear out the best of 
plated articles. 

To Bemove Stains and Siscolora- 
tions. — Methods recommended for 
cleaning discolored silver are boiling 
in suds or in water containing soda, 
sal soda, alum, cream of tartar, borax, 
or lye, or rubbing with dry salt, whit- 
ing, grated potatoes, or solutions of 
sulphuric acid, chloride of lime, alum, 
or cream of tartar. 



144 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



To Boil Tarnished Silver. — If the 
silver is much tarnished, boU for five 
minutes in water containing a mix- 
ture of equal parts of cream of tar- 
tar, common salt, and alum, using 1 
teaspoonful of each to 1 pint of water. 

Or use a strong solution of washing 
soda, 3 teaspoonfuls to 1 quart of 
water. 

Or put 1 tablespoonful of borax or 
potash lye in 2 quarts of water, put 
in the silver and boil five minutes, or 
longer if necessary. Pour off the 
liquid, rinse the silver in boiling water, 
and polish. This method will be found 
a quick and easy way to cleanse a 
conununion set or other set of numer- 
ous pieces. 

To Polish Tarnished Silver. — After 
boiling tarnished silver, if necessary 
apply with a sponge or rag powdered 
whiting moistened with sweet oil or 
alcohol. Rub over the articles thor- 
oughly with this and allow it to dry 
on. Afterwards rub it off with a soft 
cloth and polish with chamois leather. 

Or use prepared chalk and alcohol. 
If the articles are carved or rough, 
use a soft bristle brush to remove the 
cleanser. 

Or, if silver is badly tarnished, 
moisten whiting with ammonia, or pol- 
ish with a cloth dipped in ammonia 
water or in a mixture of 1 teaspoon- 
ful of ammonia water and 10 tea- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. But use the 
ammonia with caution, as it tends to 
dull the luster of the finest silver. 

Or use whiting moistened with vin- 
egar. 

Or polish with flannel dipped in 
kerosene and afterwards in dry whit- 
ing. 

Or, to remove stains that remain 
after boiling, take a piece of raw po- 
tato dipped in common baking soda. 

Or dissolve 1 tablespoonful of alum 
and 1 ounce of hard white soap in 1 
pint of water, and apply by rubbing. 

Or the burned-out hood or mantel 
of a Welsbach gas burner is one of 
the most effective silver polishes. Drop 
the hood into a tin spice can or other 
small covered can or jar, and pulver- 
jze it with the fingers. It will fall 



to pieces at a touch. Moisten a cloth 
with water and apply the pulverized 
ash to the tarnished spots. One hood 
will clean about two dozen knives, 
forks, or spoons. 

Or put all the silver in a shallow 
pan, cover with sour milk or butter- 
milk, and let it Ue until it is bright. 
Afterwards wash in soapsuds and pol- 
ish. 

To Remove Egg Stains. — The sul- 
phur contained in eggs speedily dis- 
colors any silver that comes in 
contact with it. The air is also con- 
taminated from the sulphur in illu- 
minating gas, other gaslights, or gas 
cook stoves, and from rubber. Hence 
silver should be kept from contact 
with these or any other sulphur com- 
pound. A small piece of camphor put 
with the silver will prevent it from 
staining. To remove the stains mois- 
ten a cloth in water and dip it in 
dry table salt. Rub with this and 
polish. 

Or wash them in water in which 
potatoes have been boiled. 

To Remove Medicine Stains. — Iodine 
and other ingredients in certain medi- 
cines may stain silver spoons. To re- 
move such stains, rub them with a 
piece of cloth dipped in dilute sul- 
phuric acid — 1 part of acid to 10 parts 
of water. Apply the acid with a swab 
made by winding a bit of linen about 
the end of a stick, as it will injure 
the skin. Wash immediately after- 
wards with soap and water. 

Silver fittings of inkstands and other 
sUver articles often become discolored 
with ink. The most effective cleanser 
is a paste made by moistening chloride 
of lime with water. Rub it on the 
stains imtil they disappear. After- 
wards wash with soap and water con- 
taining a little ammonia and polish. 

Silver Cleansers. — For cleaning 
jewelry manufacturing and retail 
jewelers use various mixtures which 
are safe and reliable. If these can be 
obtained they are often the most sat- 
isfactory cleansers of any. 

Or mix 3. ounces of jeweler's rouge 
with 6 ounces of prepared chalk. 

Or mix 4 ounces of prepared challj 



THE DAY'S EOUTINE 



145 



or whiting, J ounce of gum camphor, 
i ounce of alcohol, and 3 ounces of 
benzine. Allow this to dry on the sil- 
ver before polishing. 

Or mix 4 ounces of prepared chalk 
or whiting, 1 ounce of turpentine, 1 
ounce of alcohol, and 3 drams of spir- 
its of camphor. 

To Clean Britannia Ware. — First 
apply sweet oil with a sponge or piece 
of flannel. Wash in suds and water, 
and polish the same as silver. 

Or dissolve 4 ounces of yellow soap 
in 4 ounces of sweet oil, and dilute 
to a thick cream with alcohol. Apply 
with a soft sponge and polish with 
chamois. 

To Glean. China. — Cups and saucers 
and other articles of fine china often 
take on a yellow discoloration. To re- 
move this moisten a soft cloth in water 
and dip into dry salt or fine coal or 
Wood ashes, or a mixture of fuller's 
earth and baking soda, and rub oflF 
the stain with it. Afterwards wash 
with soap and water. 

To Clean Candlesticks. — To clean 
silver candlesticks, dip them in boiling 
water to remove grease, and after- 
wards clean and polish them like other 
silver articles. Do not attempt to 
scratch off the grease or wax with a 
knife or melt it off with dry heat, 
especially if they are plated, as plated 
ware is often based on a composition 
which will run if heated. 

To Clean Door Plates. — Silver door 
plates may be cleaned with aqua am- 
monia applied with a stiff brush. This 
is very effective for cleaning silver, 
but should not be used too freely upon 
finer silver articles, as it tends to 
deaden their luster. 

To Clean Silver Seals. — To restore 
monogram and initial seals of steel or 
silver to usefulness after they have be- 
gun to stick to the wax, first remove 
as much as possible of the dried wax 
from the lines of the design. Then 
soak the seal in a. moderately strong 
solution of oxalic acid, using a stiff 
brush to get at the fine lines, and re- 
move the loosened wax which formerly 
adhered. When the seal is thoroughly 
cleaned and bright, rub well with a 



cloth dampened with sweet oil, to neu- 
tralize further action of the acid and 
prevent the wax from again sticking. 

CAKE OF SINES AND DISPOSAL OP 
GABBA6E 

Care of Sinks. — Stretch a piece of 
picture wire or cord over the kitchen 
sink. Over this hang old newspapers. 
Crumple one of these in the hands and 
use it to wipe the grease from frying 
pans, pots, etc., before putting them 
into the dishwasher. This will prevent 
the excess of grease from coating the 
sink and stopping up the sink spout. 
Also use newspapers to wipe off the 
stove, table, sink, and floor when grease 
and other things have been spilled on 
them. Throw the papers at once into 
the fire box of the range, where they 
will be consuriied. Thus you will have 
no greasy dishwater or greasy dish 
cloths or towels to wash. 

To Clean Sinks. — The grease in 
dishwater tends to coat over the sink 
and sink spouts and form breeding 
places for the germs of filth diseases, 
as typhoid and other fevers, diph- 
theria, and the like. Keep at hand 
on a high shelf, out of reach of chil- 
dren, a bottle of carbolic acid. Once 
a week sprinkle a few drops of this 
about the sink. This will not only 
disinfect the sink itself, but also the 
sink spout, drain pipes, and drain. 

Or dissolve a pound of copperas in 
a gallon of boUing water. Pour this 
solution into a large glass bottle, cork, 
and keep out of the reach of children. 
Dilute half a pint with a quart of hot 
water and use to clean the sink daily. 

Or wet the bottom of the sink and 
sprinkle chloride of lime over it. This 
will remove all stains, and when rinsed 
off the water will disinfect the sink 
spout and drain. 

Or, when the sink is coated with 
grease or the sink spout is stopped up, 
put a pound or more of washing soda 
in a colander or strainer, and pour 
boiling water through it into the sink. 
Set the strainer into the water until 
the remainder of the soda is dissolved. 
If it does not run down after a time 



146 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



use force cups or partly fill the sink 
with water and press a rag down over 
the strainer. As soon as a way has 
been made, continue to pour hot soda 
■and water through the pipe to flush it. 

Care of Iron Sinks. — ^Do not use 
soap to wash an iron sink, but wash 
it in the water in which potatoes have 
been boiled. Use a raw or boiled po- 
tato to rub any spots that are rough 
or rusty; dipping the potato in bath 
brick will assist. Afterwards rinse 
clean with very hot clean water. This 
will keep the sink smooth and prevent 
rust. 

To Clean a Painted Sink. — Painting 
a sink with white or other enamel 
paint prevents rusting and improves 
its appearance, but acids and alkalis 
tend to remove the paint and cause 
rust. Cleanse the paint with u. rag 
moistened in kerosene and rinse with 
clear hot water. 

Homemade Sink. — There are still 
many dry sinks in various parts of the 
country which necessitates carrying all 
dishwater out of doors. These relics 
of barbarism should not be suffered to 
remain in any enliglitened household. 
A homemade sink may be made of 
plain boards and lined with tin or zinc 
at small cost. If this is set against 
an outer wall a foot or two of lead 
pipe will supply an outlet, and a 
wooden trough lined with lead, tin, or 
zinc, or merely tarred or painted, may 
carry away waste water to a cesspool. 
Make a box 4 feet long, 14 inches wide, 
and 5 inches deep, with open ends. 
Put in two partitions, leaving a 33- 
inch space in the center. Line this 
with tin or zinc, making a hole in one 
corner for the waste pipes. This 
leaves shelves at either hand for kitch- 
en utensils, water pail, or wash pan. 
Have the sink at such a height that it 
will not be necessary to stoop when 
using it. 

Garbage. — The problem of the dis- 
posal of garbage in small towns and 
villages is often a vexatious one. In 
cities garbage is, of course, removed 
by the authorities, and on farms it is 
usually fed to pigs and chickens. It 
is often remarked that the amount of 



food thrown away by the average 
American family would support a 
French or an Italian family of equal 
size and standing. 

Garbage cans of galvanized iron 
with tightly fitting lids can be ob- 
tained at small cost, and are most 
satisfactory. Some of these are now 
fitted with a place in the cover to hold 
a sponge wet with an antiseptic and 
deodorant. Such a can prevents all 
bad odors and does not attract flies. 
A box with a hinged lid buUt in one 
corner of the porch to hold the gar- 
bage can will prevent cats and dogs 
from tipping it over and strewing the 
contents about. 

Or a cheese box or other box sunk 
in the ground outside the door and 
covered with a tight lid may hold the 
garbage can or an ordinary garbage 
paU. This will keep the contents cool 
and prevent their being disturbed. 

Or a little cayenne pepper strewed 
above and about the can will discour- 
age the visits of animals. A news- 
paper laid inside the pail before the 
garbage is placed in it wUl keep the 
can in good order and make it an 
easy matter to clean it thoroughly. A 
small galvanized iron pail to stand on 
the kitchen or pantry table, and to be 
washed after each meal or at least 
once a day, is a convenient receptacle 
for the accumulation of kitchen scraps, 
and saves many outdoor trips to the 
garbage can. 

CHAUBEB WOBE 

To Air Beds. — Emanations from the 
body are absorbed by the sheets and 
through these contaminate the other 
bedding. Moreover, at times the air 
in unhealed rooms contains a good 
deal of moisture, and this penetrates 
all parts of the bedding. When the 
weather changes, the surface of the 
bed will dry much more quickly than 
other parts; hence the object of air- 
ing a bed is to purify it and to dry it 
by giving the moisture a good chance 
to evaporate. Open the bed the first 
thing in the morning, remove the cov- 
ers, and expose the mattress and the 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



147 



sheets separately to the air. If the 
weather is clear, open the windows if 
possible, but not if the outer air is 
damp from fog or rain. Once a week 
on cleaning day brush the mattress 
with a clean broom or stiff whisk 
broom, turning up the tufts and free- 
ing it of all dust. The Ideal way, 
from a sanitary point of view, is to 
leave the bed stripped all day and 
spread it up just before retiring. But 
as this is not always convenient, the 
next best course is to put off bed mak- 
ing imtil the last thing in the morning. 
A feather bed should be beaten and 
shaken up when it is stripped to air. 
In clear, dry weather it is a good 
plan to expose beds and bedding to 
outdoor air and sunshine, except the 
feather beds, which should be aired 
out of doors in a shady place. The 




A Modem Bedroom." 



direct rays of the sun may cause the 
animal oil in the feathers if new and 
if not properly cleaned to become 
rancid. But care must be taken not 
to air bedding out of doors when the 
air is damp from fog or mist. 

To Make Beds. — Spread the lower 
sheet with the seam down, the wide 
heading at the top, tucking it in all 
around. Spread the upper sheet with 
the hem up and the broad heading 6 
inches above the top edge of the mat- 
tress. Tuck the lower end in i firmly 
under the foot of the mattress. Spread 
the blankets with the open edges evenly 
together 6 inches from the head of the 



bed. Smooth downward. Tuck the 
bottom double edge firmly under the 
foot of the mattress. 

Add quilts, if any, in the same fash- 
ion. If a white counterpane is used 
the bed need not be open. Or if not, 
turn back the upper sheet over the 
blankets at least 12 inches to cover 
them well. Do not tuck in metal beds 
at the sides. The spread should be 
long enough to hang over the mattress 
at the foot of the bed. A tuft or light 
comforter to match the furnishings of 
the room may be folded twice length- 
wise, or square, with one edge turned 
over and placed across the foot of the 
bed. Or, if a wooden bedstead is used, 
the sheets and blankets may be tucked 
in at the sides before the spread is 
put on and tucked. Stand the pillows 
nearly erect. 

In winter when the feet are so apt 
to be cold in unhealed rooms an extra 
quilt or blanket spread over the lower 
half of the bed, and the other half 
folded under the mattress to prevent 
the clothes from pulling up, will help 
to keep the feet warm. 

Bedroom Ware. — Clean all bedroom 
ware and the marble tops of wash- 
stands and tables with a rag dipped 
in turpentine. This not only cleanses 
but disinfects them. 

How to Cool Bedrooms, — In summer 
it is often more important to keep 
hot air out than to let cool air in. 
Hence if bedrooms are aired during 
the early part of the day and the cur- 
tains then drawn and shutters closed 
until night, the bedrooms may be 
cooler than if they had been open to 
the outer air all day. 

Or, when very important to cool a 
room quickly, wet a large cloth and 
suspend it over a line where, if pos- 
sible, a draught will strike it. This 
will cool the air by evaporation ap- 
proximately ten degrees according io 
circumstances. This plan is frequently 
practiced in hot climates. 

To Darken Rooms. — Bedrooms 
should be provided with dark-green 
shades in addition to the white shades, 
or if these are not present u. strip of 
dark-green baize or glazed calico may 



148 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



be pinned inside the blind or attached 
to the white shades when it is neces- 
sary to darken room. 

QABE OF LAMPS 

Lamps should be cleaned and then 
filled each morning and the wicks 
trimmed. The improved steadiness of 
the light will repay for the trouble. 
When buying a lamp, get two or three 
extra chimneys and burners, and a 
yard or two of wicking. This will 
save much delay and annoyance, espe- 
cially when kerosene is the only light 
to be had, and it is not convenient to 
go to the store. It is very desirable, 
as far as possible, to have lamps and 
burners alike, so that the parts and 
supplies may be interchangeable. 

Have a S-gallon can for kerosene 
oil fitted with a pump. Place this on 
a homemade truck fitted with casters, 
so that it can be rolled under a shelf 
or into the pantry and drawn out 
again without lifting. 

To Clean lamps. — Collect all the 
lamps in the house after the chamber 
work has been done, and place them 




"Colkct A II the Lamps." 

on a shelf near the oil can, which may 
be pushed under the kitchen sink. 
First remove the chimneys and place 
them near the sink to be washed. 
Trim the wicks by rubbing the crust 



from them with the fingers or a piece 
of stock, as a burnt match. Do not, 
as a rule, use the scissors, or, if they 
are necessary, cut off the corners so 
as to round the wick up to the center 
instead of cutting straight across. See 
that the wicks are long enough to 
reach the bottom of the lamp. Insert 
a new wick when necessary. Place the 
lamp on the top of the oil can and fill 
with a pump. Or, if a 1-gaUon can 
is used, take care that the oil does not 
spatter the surrounding woodwork and 
perhaps cause a conflagration. Wipe 
the lamps clean with a, cloth kept for 
this purpose. Do not leave cloths 
soaked with kerosene matter together 
in dark corners, as they may become 
ignited by spontaneous combustion. 
Wash the lamps in soap and water; 
wash and put on the chimneys, and 
place them on a shelf ready for use. 

To Clean Lamp Chimneys. — A 
sponge is the best thing with which to 
clean lamp chimneys. Select a sponge 
large enough to fiil the biggest part 
of the chimney inside, thrust a stick 
into the center of the sponge, and fas- 
ten it with a string, wire, or tacks, 
dip it into soapsuds, and swab the in- 
side of the glass. Afterwards rinse 
with hot water and polish. 

To Polish Lamp Chimneys. — Use 
the small paper bags that contained 
groceries. Crumple and rub th,ese to- 
gether to soften them. Draw a bag 
on your hand like a glove, and polish 
with it. Hold your hand over one end 
of the chimney and breathe into it at 
the other end before polishing. 

Or save tissue paper for this pur- 
pose. 

Or rinse chimneys thoroughly in hot 
water and stand them on a hot cover 
of the kitchen range. They will sput- 
ter but will not break, and will dry 
clear and shining inside and out. If 
the suds are not rinsed off, however, 
they will leave stains. 

If chimneys are smoked with soot, 
remove it with a dry cloth covered 
with salt. 

Or soak them in hot water with 
washing soda, and wash in warm wa- 
ter containing aqua ammonia. 



THE DAY'S ROUTINE 



149 



To Clean Gloljes. — Rough or orna- 
mented glass globes which become 
smoked or grimed with dust may be 
placed in a vessel of cold water con- 
taining a tablespoonful of washing 
soda and brought to a boil. After- 
wards scrub with soap and water, us- 
ing a nailbrush, or with warm water 
containing ammonia. Rinse in warm 
or hot water, drain, dry, and polish. 

Care of lamp Chimneys. — Lamp 
chimneys frequently crack when the 
lamp is lighted, especially if they are 
in a cold room. You may know if the 
chimney is too cold from the fact that 
steam will gather upon it. When this 
is the case keep the flame low until 
the chimney becomes warm enough to 
dispel the steam, and turn the light 
up by degrees. 

Another cause of broken chimneys 
is cutting the wicks square across, 
which leaves a corner to flare to one 
side. Rub off the crust, or clip the 
corner so as to round up the wick 
toward the center. 

Care of Burners. — Have at hand a 
complete set of extra burners. Once 
a month or so change the burners and 
boil the soUed one in a solution of 
sal soda or baking soda until per- 
fectly clean and bright. Afterwards 
polish with sand soap, bath brick, or 
pumice. 

When the burner becomes clogged 
with dirt and dust, soak it in a solu- 
tion of potash or soda lye and hot 
water, moving it about with a stick 
until the dirt is moistened. After- 
wards boU with baking soda until 
thoroughly cleaned. 

lamp Chimneys — To Prevent their 
Breaking.— Wrap the glass in several 
thicknesses of cheese cloth, cover with 
a strong solution of cold salt water, 
and bring to a boil. Boil ten or fif- 
teen minutes, and leave the glass in 
the water to cool. If this is done each 
time the chimneys are washed they 
will become thoroughly toughened and 
practically unbreakable. If they can 
be put in a kettle of water on the 
range and boiled all day, so much the 
better. 

Care of Lamps. — Lamps should not 



be allowed to stand partly empty, as 
the oil tends to generate a gas which 
may explode if ignited. They should 
be filled daily, but not quite full. 
When heated the oil expands, and if 
the lamp is full it will run over and 
drop. Fill to within half an inch or 
so of the top, trim, and rub dry with 
a. soft cloth. 

Metal Lamps. — Bronze lamps should 
be merely dusted or wiped with a 
flannel cloth, and care should be taken 
not to allow the oil to spill on them, 
as it has a tendency to take oS the 
bronze. They should not be washed 
with soap and water. 

Lacquer lamps may be washed, but 
not with sal soda or any strong wash- 
ing powder, alcohol, or any form of 
naphtha, as these all may injure the 
lacquer. 

To Mend Lamps. — The brass top of 
a lamp to which the burner is screwed 
sometimes gets broken, and may be 
mended either with alum or plaster of 
Paris. Remove the ring from the top 
and dig out the dry plaster of Paris 
with a penknife. Make a paste of 
fresh plaster of Paris with water, fill 
the threads of the brass with this, 
heaping on all that it will hold. Place 
it in position to harden. The plaster 
of Paris will swell and hold the top 
tightly. 

Or fill the hollow part with pow- 
dered alum and melt it on the stove. 
When melted put it in place, and when 
cold it will be found to adhere tightly. 

Lamps — To Prevent their Smoking. 
— If the wick is thoroughly soaked in 
strong vinegar and afterwards dried 
it will give a clear light and prevent 
smoking. 

Or place a small piece of rock salt 
close to the flame inside the burner. 
This not only prevents smoke but 
brightens the flame. 

Lamp Wicks. — Save old felt hats. 
They make excellent lamp wicks and 
wicks for oil stoves. 

A substitute for a lamp wick may 
be made from old cotton stockings or 
outing flannel by taking a strip about 
three times the width of the burner, 
folding at the edges, and hemming on 



150 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the sewing machine. A supply of 
lamp wicks can be made up in advance 
from old pieces without expense, and 
always be at hand when needed. 

Wicks should be changed occasion- 
ally and may be cleansed by boiling 
them with vinegar and afterwards dry- 
ing thoroughly before using. 

PKEPABATIONS FOE THE NIGHT 

To Prepare for Sleep. — All clothing 
worn during the day should be re- 
moved, and a night garment, jDrefer- 
ably of linen or wool, should be put 
on. A warm bath j ust before retiring 
is a most healthful custom. The bed 
covers should never be drawn over the 
head, as this results in breathing again 
and again the carbonic acid thrown 
off from the lungs, and also taking 
into the lungs the poisonous exhala- 
tions from the body. The body should 
recline on the side rather than on the 
back, the bed being placed so that 
the face may be turned away from 
the light. The bed should not be ex- 
posed to draughts or to direct heat 
from stoves, registers, or radiators. 
It should be moved away from a damp 
or cold wall. All curtains, canopies, 
valances, and other draperies should 
be discarded from beds and bedrooms, 
and only the simplest shades and lace 
or muslin curtains should be permit- 
ted. All draperies interfere with the 
circulation of air, accumulate dust, 
and act as catchalls for the bacteria 
which are the germs of diseases. 

Bed covers should not be suffered 
to hang down to the floor so as to 
impede the circulation of the air be- 
neath them. If the bed can stand in 
the middle of the room without being 
exposed to draughts or direct heat, so 
much the better. 

To Warm Beds. — The old-fashioned 
way of warming a bed in winter by 
means of a brass warming pan filled 
with hot coals from the open fireplace 
is largely out of use. It is quite in- 
convenient to take coal from a mod- 
ern range or cook stove for this pur- 
pose. Moreover, the heat from a 
warming pan is very soon gone. 



Ordinary red brick, soapstones, or 
hot-water bottles are now generally 
used. A good hot-water bottle is a 
great luxury, and one or more should 
be in every household. It is especially 
valuable in case of sickness, but if one 
cannot be afforded for every member 
of the family, common red bricks are 
always obtainable. 

It is customary to roll up bricks in 
old cloths, but a much neater and 
more convenient method is to prepare 
separate bags for each member of the 
family as follows: 

Use bed ticking as lining, because 
it is smooth and hard and slips on 
easily. Cover with outing flannel or 
any soft woolen material, as old flan- 
nel underwear, and use cotton batting 
or a very thin sheet of asbestos as 
interlining. Cut the lining and inter- 
lining to the proper size, lay them 
together, and stitch all around. After- 
wards bring the ends and sides to- 
gether and hem to form a bag, leaving 
enough material on one side to make 
a flap over the open end and fasten- 
ing with a button. Make these bags 
rather loose so that they will draw on 
easily. 

After supper place one or two 
bricks in the oven for each member 
of the family, remove them an hour or 
so before bedtime, stand them on end 
on top of the stove, and slip the covers 
over them. These are preferable to 
flatirons, as they are more convenient, 
and are far cheaper than hot-water 
bottles. 

Here is a hint for a useful Christ- 
mas present for every member of the 
family, which can be made by anyone 
and will be appreciated cold nights 
for years to come. 

nature of Sleep. — In sleep the heart 
beats are less frequent and less force- 
ful, although more regular. The blood 
circulates more slowly and the breath- 
ing is slower, deeper, and more rhyth- 
mical. Hence the temperature of the 
whole body is lowered and less blood 
is distributed to the extremities. The 
blood seems, in fact, to partially leave 
the extremities, including the brain, 
and to settle about the stomach and 



THE DAY'S HOUTINE 



151 



other internal organs. Hence the 
process of digestion is rather increased 
than otherwise during sleep. On the 
other hand, the excretion of waste, ,as 
in perspiration, is normally less dur- 
ing sleep. The activity of the nervous 
system is somewhat diminished. As 
to the mental faculties, the imagina- 
tion is very active and the emotions 
have full play, but sensation or feel- 
ing is much weakened. Consciousness 
and will are entirely suspended, and 
thought and memory are greatly 
modified. 

Nature of Dreams. — ^Many persons 
attach more importance to dreams 
than is either wise or proper. These 
may be suggested by habitual lines of 
thought or by recent events that have 
made a strong impression upon the 
mind. Or they may be caused by re- 
flex action in various parts of the 
body, as indigestion may cause night- 
mare. Some persons fear the effects 
of bad dreams on bodily, and others 
on mental or moral, grounds. Others, 
again, believe that the mind is most 
active during sleep and may suggest 
wiser courses of conduct than during 
its waking hours. Both of these sup- 
positions are probably equally wide of 
the mark. 

It may be doubted whether there is 
such a thing as a dreamless sleep. On 
awaking, a sleeper may remember 
only a portion of his dream and as- 
sume that his sleep was dreamless, 
because the remainder of it has been 
forgotten. On the whole, dreaming 
may be regarded as a normal condi- 
tion of sleep and dismissed with the 
least possible conscious attention. 

Sleeplessness. — The common opinion 
that sleep is the result of fatigue is 
not exactly correct. On the other 
hand, sleep itself may give rise to 
drowsiness, or persons may feel drowsy 
without being either physically or men- 
tally fatigued. Extreme exhaustion is 
a common cause of sleeplessness. All 
these facts probably come within the 
personal experience of everyone. 

When not produced by pain or im- 
mediate stress of anxiety, grief, or 
other acute mental disturbances, sleep- 



lessness usually arises from overwork- 
ing the nerves. The cure of sleepless- 
ness depends, of course, upon its cause. 
If due to nervousness (neurasthenia), 
the nature of that complaint must be 
taken into account. Nervousness is a 
disease of brain workers, and especial- 
ly, according to physicians, of school 
teachers. While it is a very depress- 
ing and trying condition, it has one 
characteristic that may or may not 
commend itself to those who are 
acutely suffering from it. It rarely, 
if ever, kills anyone. On the contrary, 
it is distinctly a curable disease. The 
best general idea of this condition is 
expressed in a figure of speech attrib- 
uted to the celebrated Dr. Graeme 
Hammond, a specialist in nervous dis- 
eases. Dr. Hammond compared the 
condition of a nervous patient to that 
of a common electric battery which is 
used in connection with a push button 
to ring doorbells. Sometimes when 
one pushes the button the bell fails to 
ring. On investigation the wires may 
he found to be in perfect condition 
and properly connected, but the bat- 
tery has become exhausted so that the 
electric current no longer flows over 
the wires. Similarly, it would seem as 
though the body generates a current 
of vital energy which flows over the 
nerves, and that mental work of all 
sorts exhausts this vital fluid more 
quickly than does physical work. The 
result would seem to be that while the 
nerves themselves may be in perfect 
condition, they are temporarily as 
helpless to execute the mandates of 
the will as the electric wire is inca- 
pable of performing its functions 
when the battery which supplies it is 
worn out. 

Those who have suffered from this 
complaint will note that while in its 
early stages they may begin the day's 
work in a perfectly normal condition, 
a time comes before nightfall when 
the nervous energy appears to be ex- 
hausted. Now is the moment, ac- 
cording to Dr. Hammond, for good 
j udgment to step in. Stop work imme- 
diately and take things easy the rest 
of the day and evening, retiring as 



152 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



early as possible. If this is not done, 
if, on the contrary, the wires or nerves 
are used after the " electricity " or 
nervous energy has been exhausted, 
one or both of two results may hap- 
pen: either the "battery,* or that 
function of the body which generates 
the vital nervous energy, becomes over- 
worlced and permanently or tempo- 
rarily exhausted, or the nerves them- 
selves may be affected and subject to 
various forms of degeneration, either 
temporarily or permanently, and both 
of these conditions may be accom- 
panied by insomnia. Hence sleepless- 
ness is not always a simple condition 
to be treated in various ways when it 
happens, but most often is a symptom 
of nervous exhaustion which is incur- 
able by simple remedies, but may be 
prevented by avoiding overexertion, 
especially toward the latter part of 
the day. 

Sleep is so necessary that a per- 
son suffering from insomnia is often 
tempted to use sleeping powders of all 
sorts, which usually contain opium dis- 
guised under various scientific or fan- 
ciful titles. This is a serious mistake, 
the evil effects of which cannot be too 
strongly emphasized. 

To Induce Sleep. — Assuming that 
the nerves and body are in a normal 
condition, sleep may be induced by 
anything which tends to produce the 
results noted in slumber. As one of 
the characteristics of sleep is the 
absence of sensation, removing the 
sources of external impressions helps 
to induce sleep. The absence of light 
and soimd and of the muscular sensa- 
tions produced by any sort of move- 
ment all assist. 

Anything which causes the blood to 
retreat from the brain and settle about 
the digestive tract is helpful. Hence 
earnest thought or worrying should 
be given up if possible. Monotonous 
sounds that attract the attention, as 
the ticking of a clock or the sound of 
running water, by diverting the mind 
from other thoughts, may have this 
effect; hence the common suggestion 
to count monotonously from 1 to 10 
or 1 to 100 and over again, or to 



count imaginary sheep jumping over 
a gate, is not without reason. But 
in many cases these suggestions have 
exactly the opposite effect to that in- 
tended by stimulating rather than 
quieting the activity of the brain. 

Perhaps there is no better rule 
when there is a tendency to nervous- 
ness than to let the mind fashion cas- 
tles in the air. To make up stories 
and imagine conditions of an ideal 
sort such as exist only in fairy tales 
or in our dreams, produces a mental 
condition favorable to sleep, and the 
transition from day dreams to those 
of slumber is natural and easy. 

On the physical side it may be 
questioned whether fasting by going 
without one's supper is advisable. 
An overfilled stomach may lead to 
insomnia by causing , indigestion, but 
an empty stomach may produce the 
same effect. Hence a moderate meal 
of good food, easily digestible, is ad- 
visable, as the process of digestion 
itself tends to draw the blood to the 
stomach and occupy it until sleep 
comes. 

Stimulants, as tea, coffee, or alco- 
hol, which promote the circulation, 
should be avoided at night. A short 
walk before retiring to bring on a 
natural fatigue may be helpful. A 
glass of hot milk is found beneficial 
by some. 

Late hours and excitement, as at- 
tending theaters, evening parties, in- 
dulging in stimulants, exciting read- 
ing matter, and games of chance, 
should be avoided. A warm sponge 
bath or a full body bath in warm 
water of the temperature of 95° to 
100° and lasting fifteen or twenty 
minutes is especially helpful to ner- 
vous persons. 

Or imitate a condition which oc- 
curs in sleep by turning the eyeballs 
upward as if attempting to look into 
the brain. This is not always effec- 
tive, as with some persons the effort 
stimulates and irritates the brain and 
thus defeats itself, but with others it 
produces the desired result. 

It is well known that the best sleep 
is that which takes place during the 



THE DAY'S EOUTINE 



153 



earlier hours of the night; during the 
latter part of the night sleep is light- 
er. Toward morning a state occurs 
between sleeping and waking which it 
is not desirable to prolong. The hab- 
it of springing to one's feet in the 
morning as soon as consciousness re- 
turns is an exceedingly desirable one, 
and if it appears that one is not suf- 
ficiently rested, sleep should be sought 
earlier on the following night. 

To Prevent Sleeplessness. — Take a 
warm bath just before retiring. Or 
walk for half an hour in the open air. 



Or wet a cloth in cold water and lay 
it on the back of the neck. Or rub 
the body gently with a flesh brush for 
ten or fifteen minutes. Or drink a 
cup of hot milk on retiring, or a 
glass of buttermilk. Or drink a tum- 
blerful of water containing a tea- 
spoonful of magnesia and a few drops 
of aqua ammonia or sal volatile. 

To Sleep on Hot Nights. — Lay a 
strip of clean matting between the 
mattress and the sheet. This will 
make the bed much cooler. Use linen 
sheets in preference to cotton ones. 



CHAPTER IV 

PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 

SOLVENTS FOR SPOTS AND STAINS— KINDS OF SPOTS AND STAINS 
—STAINS ON WHITE LINEN OR COTTON— TO REMOVE STAINS 
FROM VEGETABLE FIBERS— TO REMOVE STAINS FROM ANIMAL 
FIBERS— TO CLEAN COLORED GOODS— TO DRY-CLEAN MEN'S 
GARMENTS— TO DRY-CLEAN WOMEN'S GARMENTS— CLEANING 
AND CARE OF GLOVES— TO CLEAN FEATHERS, FURS, AND 
STRAW— BLEACHING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL FIBERS 



The custom of this country has es- 
tablished Monday as wash day. Many 
families, however, prefer Tuesday, in 
order to have an opportunity on 
Monday to sort over the different ar- 
ticles, mend tears, remove stains, and 
the Uke, 

Bed clothing is usually changed on 
Saturday, and body clothing on Sat- 
urday or Sunday, so that aU clothes 
may be readily collected and at hand 
early Monday morning. 

Laundry Bags. — Each person in the 
family should have a laundry bag in 
his or her own room in which soiled 
garments may be kept in preparation 
for the weekly wash. A separate laim- 
dry bag for soiled table linen and 
napkins should be hung on the back 
of the pantry door or some other 
clean, dry place where mice cannot 
get at it. If these articles are not 
kept out of the way they will scent 
the spots of grease in table linen and 
gnaw their way to them. 

Laundry bags may be made of 
heavy unbleached muslin, or worn-out 
pillowcases may be used, by facing 
them to hold a draw string. 

Ordinary crash toweling, folded 
across and sewed at the sides, makes 
a convenient laundry bag. 

Or ornamental bags may be made 
in the form of a double pocket having 
one opening across the middle with 
two baglike receptacles. 



Clothes Hamper. — In addition to 
these laundry bags a clothes hamper 
located conveniently near the laundry 
will be found very handy to receive 
soiled towels and bed linen. Covered 
basket hampers may be obtained at 
the stores. 

Or a cheap clothes hamper may be 
made from a small barrel, by lining 
it inside with cambric or calico and 
covering the outside with cretonne or 
other material arranged in plaits. The 
lid may be covered with the same ma- 
terial and supplied with a covered 
knob in the center. The lining should 
be sewed together in breadths like a 
skirt. 

Or a hamper may be made of a dry- 
goods box by lining and covering it 
in the same manner with any suitable 
material. By padding the top this 
box may be used as a seat and may 
be placed where a barrel would be in- 
convenient. 

Sorting the Laundry. — Spread a 
white sheet on the floor and empty 
on this the contents of the laundry 
bags and hamper. Sort the small and 
delicate pieces of fine linen, as laces, 
fine waists, aprons, and petticoats, in 
one pile. It is a good plan to have 
one or two wash bags of cotton, about 
two feet square, in which to place 
these pieces to soak and boil them. 
Or they can be boiled separately in a 
kettle or small boiler. 



154 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



155 



Put the table linen, linen towels, 
and doilies in one pile; the bed and 
body linen, kitchen towels, and bath 
towels in another; the colored clothes, 
hosiery, and coarser articles in a third ; 
and the flannels and woolens by them- 
selves. These lots should be kept sep- 
arate throughout the washing, the fine 
linen and table linen going into the 
first tub and the first boiler; bed and 
body linen into the second tub and 
second boiler; colored clothes being 
washed separately, but not boiled; 
and flannels being reserved for sepa- 
rate treatment. By this plan the 
same suds may be used in the boiler 
if desired, although changing the 
water is much to be preferred. 

Laundry — To Remove Stains. — 
While sorting the clothes, they should 
be carefully looked over for stains 
from fruit, grass, acids, pencil marks, 
ink, etc., as these may be much more 
readily eradicated before they are 
touched by soap or boiling water. 
Pencil marks especially should be 
erased carefully with a rubber eraser, 
as the hot water will make them in- 
delible. 

SOLVENTS FOB SPOTS AKD STAIKS 

How to Erase Stains. — The com- 
monest stains that have to be re- 
moved from textile fabrics are ink, 
grass green, iron rust, mildew, grease 
spots, paint, and tar. These require 
treatment according to the nature of 
the stain and the fabric. The princi- 
pal chemicals that should be kept on 
hand in the laundry closet to remove 
stains are certain acids, especially 
oxalic, tartaric, and muriatic acid; 
together with ammonia and hyposul- 
phite of soda to neutralize the effect 
of the acid after the stain has been 
removed; aqua arrimonia for the same 
purpose; various substances that have 
the power of cutting or dissolving 
gums and resins, as aleoholi chloro- 
form, and oil of turpentine; and cer- 
tain absorbents, as chalk, French 
chalk, pipe clay, fuller's earth, and the 
like. Other useful articles — as fresh 
milk, sour milk, buttermilk, cream of 



tartar, lemon juice, salt, raw potato, 
etc., will usually be at hand. 

Treatment of Spots and Stains. — 
Treatment for stains in general should 
be progressive, beginning with the 
milder remedies and reserving the 
more powerful ones to the last. Fresh 
stains are much more easily soluble 
than those that are allowed to remain 
until various chemical changes have 
taken place. Hence prompt treat- 
ment is always advisable. When 
stains are fresh, immediate applica- 
tion of any dry absorbent powder, as 
common salt, common starch, chalk, 
pipe clay, etc., wiU take up much of 
the staining fluid. Dipping at once 
into boiling water for some stains and 
into milk for others will assist in dis- 
solving the stain, and various other 
agents may then be applied while the 
fabric is wet. If the stains have been 
suffered to dry they must usually be 
wet by soaking to swell the fibers of 
the fabric, and allow the cleansing 
substance "to be absorbed. 

Soap should never be applied to a 
stained fabric until the stains have 
been removed. After chemical treat- 
ment, the article should be first rinsed 
in clear water and then washed in 
soapsuds or put into the regular 
wash. 

The Laundry Closet. — It will be 
found very convenient to provide a 
special receptacle in the kitchen or 
laundry for the various articles for 
removing stains, and for the soaps, 
washing compounds, bluing, starch, 
and other things used in the laundry. 
A complete list will include hard bar 
soap, both white and yellow, naphtha 
soap, sal soda, bluing, wheat and corn 
starch, borax, aqua ammonia, sugar 
of lead, oxalic, muriatic, and tartaric 
acids, bleaching powder (chloride of 
lime), caustic potash, turpentine, ben- 
zine, and gasoline, besides various 
cleansing mixtures. This closet should 
have a strong lock or padlock, and 
the key should be kept beyond the 
reach of children. Every bottle and 
package of poisonous substances 
should be plainly labeled and should 
bear the word " Poison." 



156 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



utensils for Stains or Spots. — ^Tbe 
laundry closet should also contain a 
number of small sponges, which can 
be bought for ten cents a dozen, for 
applying various substances to stained 
fabrics; likewise several sizes of small 
camel's-hair paint brushes, such as 



If 



§Ti*VfVf,\'ii^i' 



rnmmmii 




" The Laundry Closet." 

are used for water colors. The stiff 
fibrous sponges called " loofah," which 
cost about ten cents apiece, are es- 
pecially useful for grease stains or 
spots. If the goods is rough these 
can be used to scrape with vigorously. 
They can also be used with a lighter 
touch on delicate fabrics. They leave 
no lint and are easily washed and 
dried. When removing spots or 
stains, first hold the garment to the 
light, and if the stain is on the sur- 
face scrape off as much of it as pos- 
sible with a sharp knife before wet- 
ting the fabric or applying chemicals. 
Acids to Remove Stains. — The 
laundry cupboard should be furnished 
with a 4- or 6-ounce vial of oxalic 
and of tartaric acid and a 2-ounce 
vial of muriatic acid. These will be 
found easy to apply, and prove much 
more effective than many of the or- 
dinary methods that often must be 
employed if they are not kept at 
band. 



Cautions in TTse of Acids. — These 
acids are all poisonous and must be 
labeled "Poisoir," and locked up out 
of the reach of children. They must 
not be used on colored fabrics, and 
must be quickly and thoroughly rinsed 
out as soon as the stain has been re- 
moved. When possible, they should 
be followed by the use of hyposul- 
phite of soda, ammonia, or other 
chemical that will neutralize the acid. 

Oxalic Acid. — ^Thls is the active 
principle of salts of sorrel. When 
combined with cream of tartar it is 
known as salts of lemon. It may be 
dissolved in one part of boiling water. 
It is a dangerous poison, and in cer- 
tain quantities will cause death in 
about ten minutes. It is used for 
cleaning leather, scouring metals, es- 
pecially brass and copper, and for re- 
moving various stains. It has very 
much the appearance of Kpsom salts, 
from which it must be carefully dis- 
tinguished. 

Use of Oxalic Acid. — OxaUc acid is 
especially useful in the laundry to re- 
move iron mold, fruit stains, and Ink 
spots produced by the old style iron- 
gall Inks. It does not, however, re- 
move ink stains produced by modern 
writing fluids or blue-black inks com- 
posed of aniline dyes. Oxalic acid 
may be applied to cotton, linen, wool- 
en, silk, or any ordinary fabric if un- 
colored, but it bleaches colored goods. 
The color, can, however, in most cases 
be restored by aqua ammonia. When 
possible, it is advisable to experiment 
with a sample of the goods before ap- 
plying oxaUc acid to colored articles. 

To Apply Oxalic Acid. — The acid 
may be applied alone, either dissolved 
in Its own bulk of boiling water for a 
" saturated " solution, or in nine parts 
of cold water for a " dilute " solution. 

Or, as salts of lemon, it may be dis- 
solved in 1 to 10 parts of water, either 
hot or cold. The action of the acid 
is increased by heat as in boiling 
water. 

To apply, either wet the spot in 
water and cover with dry oxalic acid 
or salts of lemon, or dip the spot into 
the solution, or apply the solution to 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



157 



the spot with a small brush, sponge, 
or piece of rag. If the stains are old 
or have penetrated through the fabric 
it will be necessary to rub the acid 
vigorously into the spot and persist 
patiently until successful. Oxalic acid 
is also recommended to bleach silk in 
the proportion of 4 pounds of the 
acid and 4 pounds of salt to 2 quarts 
of water for the raw silk, or 2 ounces 
of oxalic acid and 2 ounces of salt to 
6 quarts of water for white silk that 
has become yellowed from washing. 
The latter proportions may be ob- 
served for removing vegetable or fruit 
stains, should it be necessary to im- 
merse the article in the solution. 

As soon as the stain disappears, 
rinse with clear water, and after- 
wards wash with soapsuds. 

Uses of Citric Acid. — This is the 
acid principle of alum and lemon 
juice; it is also found in gooseberries, 
currants, and some other fruits. It 
is intensely sour, is readily soluble in 
water, and is used in medicine; in 
dyeing, to heighten certain colors, and 
to break up certain coloring com- 
pounds. Citric acid may be used dis- 
solved in slightly more than its own 
bulk of water for a saturated solu- 
tion, or in 10 or more parts for a 
dilute solution. It may be applied 
to white goods or fast-dyed cotton or 
woolen, by moistening the stain with 
a solution by means of the finger tips, 
a small brush, sponge, or rag. Rinse 
immediately in clear water. It may 
be used for stains from fruit, iron- 
gall inks, iron rust, or mildew; but 
for these oxalic or tartaric acids are 
commonly preferred. In the form of 
lemon juice, citric acid is a mild but 
useful agent, and one generally em- 
ployed. With the addition of salt on 
colored goods it may safely be used 
on any ordinary fabric. To apply, 
saturate the spot with lemon juice, 
and for colored goods cover with dry 
salt. Expose to direct sunshine and 
repeat if necessary. 

Or apply lemon juice and salt, and 
steam the fabric over a kettle. 

TTses of Lactic Acid. — ^This is the 
acid which forms in milk when it 



turns sour and which is, therefore, 
contained in buttermilk. It is the 
presence of this acid which causes 
buttermilk to be employed in the proc- 
ess of bleaching linen. Sweet milk, 
sour milk, and buttermilk are all 
recommended _ for the treatment of 
stains in fabrics, the action being 
strong in proportion as the liquid 
sours with age. Hence, when stains 
are fresh they may be removed by 
dipping immediately in warm milk; 
but when they are more stubborn, 
they may require soaking in butter- 
milk for some time. The addition of 
common salt increases their effective- 
ness. This is a simple and useful 
means of treating ink stains from 
iron-gall inks, tea stains, red-wine 
stains, and fruit stains, especially 
when fresh. Sour buttermilk also 
erases mildew. Wet or soak the arti- 
cle in fresh or sour milk or butter- 
milk, cover with common salt — ^which 
contains chlorine, a powerful bleach- 
ing agent — and expose to sunshine in 
the open air. 

Nature of Tartaric Acid. — This is 
the acid principle of cream of tartar 
and is found in a free state in vari- 
ous plants and fruits, especially the 
grape. It is readily soluble in either 
alcohol or water. If dissolved in 
water and allowed to stand it deteri- 
orates, turning into acetic acid. It is 
the acid principle of Rochelle salts 
and is principally used in dyeing, in 
preparing effervescing beverages, and 
as an ingredient in baking powder. In 
medicine it is used as a tartar emetic. 

Tartaric acid is but slightly poison- 
ous, is much less destructive to cloth 
fibers than are other acids, and does 
not injure fast colors. It may be 
dissolved in less than its own bulk of 
water, and hence may be used in a 
very strong solution and readily 
washed out of the most delicate 
fabrics. 

Uses of Tartaric Acid. — Tartaric 
acid is especially useful in grass 
stains, as it changes the chlorophyll 
and chlorophyUan into soluble sub- 
stances. It is nearly as effective as 
oxalic acid on ink spots from iron- 



158 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



gall inks. It may be used on all or- 
dinary linen, silk, cotton, woolen, or 
other fabrics, and if combined with 
salt will not cause the colors to run. 
The usefulness of this article in the 
laundry does not seem to be generally 
known. 

To Apply Tartaric Acid. — Wet the 
spot with water and apply the dry 
acid with or without an equal quan- 
tity of salt. 

Or wet the spot and cover with 
cream of tartar, with or without its 
bulk of salt. The process will be 
quickened if the stain is held over the 
steam of a teakettle or laid upon a 
heated dinner plate or other smooth, 
heated surface. The acid may be 
rubbed into white goods with the fin- 
ger tips or the bowl of a spoon, but 
on colored goods it should be applied 
more carefully. 

Or, for a saturated solution, dis- 
solve in its own bulk or less of hot 
water. For a dilute solution dissolve 
in 10 or more parts of cold water. 
Apply same as oxalic acid. 

Nature of Salts of Lemon. — This 
is a compound of equal parts in bulk 
of cream of tartar and salts of sor- 
rel. It combines the effects of tar- 
taric and oxalic acids. Its uses and 
methods of application are similar. 
It may be used on the same fabrics 
and requires similar caution. 

Nature and Uses of Muriatic Acid. 
— This is a, gas produced by treat- 
ing common salt with sulphuric acid 
or oil of vitriol. It is readily soluble 
in water, and this solution is the 
commercial article. It is poisonous, 
has a sharp, keen smell and taste, and 
when inhaled causes suffocation. One 
part of water will absorb about 450 
times its own bulk of the gas. It is 
a powerful corrosive, and must be 
provided with a glass or rubber stop- 
per, or the cork must be smeared 
with vaseline, else it will eat the cork 
and evaporate. It corrodes metals. 

To Apply Muriatic Acid. — This 
acid is especially useful to remove red 
rust stains. To apply, lay the fabric 
containing the spot over an earthen 
dish of boiling water. Allow a drop 



of the acid to fall on the stain from 
a glass stopper or medicine dropper. 
This will cause the stain to fade to a 
light yellow. Drop the cloth immedi- 
ately into the water and rinse. Re- 
peat if necessary. As soon as the 
stain disappears, rinse the article and 
dip it into ammonia water. This will 
neutralize any acid that was not re- 
moved by rinsing. 

Muriatic acid may be used on linen 
or cotton fabrics, but not on silks or 
woolens. It can be employed on cer- 
tain fast colors, but it is advisable to 
test a sample of the goods before ap- 
plying. 

To Remove Acid Stains. — The above 
acids and others wiU themselves stain 
certain colored goods, especially blues 
and blacks. To remove these stains 
apply aqua ammonia with a camel's- 
hair brush or sponge. If this is not 
effective apply chloroform. Either of 
these may be used on linen, cotton, 
silk, or wool. 

Nature and Uses of Ammonia. — It 
is interesting to note that the name 
" ammonia " was formerly applied to 
common salt on account of the fact 
that salt was anciently found in the 
Libyan Desert near the Temple of 
Jupiter Ammon. Ammonia occurs 
as a colorless transparent gas with a 
pungent odor. It is readily soluble 
in water, 1 part of water absorbing 
about 500 volumes of the gas. A so- 
lution of ammonia in water is called 
aqua ammonia or " spirits of Harts- 
horn." Preparations sold for house- 
hold purposes vary greatly in 
strength. Smelling salts or sal vola- 
tile is a carbonate of ammonia. Am- 
monia combines with acids to form 
soluble salts. Hence it is useful in 
removing fruit stains and other acids. 
It may be applied freely to all ordi- 
nary fabrics; to remove stains made 
by strong acids, red wine, iodine, ni- 
trate of silver, and also the stains of 
sea water and cod-liver oil. 

Uses of Alcohol. — Alcohol, as is 
well known, is a pure, colorless liquid 
with a burning taste. It burns easily, 
has a strong affinity for water, and 
dissolves many substances. Pure al- 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



15» 



cohol Is called absolute or "anhy- 
drous" alcohol, but the commercial 
article varies from " proof spirits," 
which contains about SO per cent of 
alcohol by volume, to " cologne spir- 
its," which contains from 93 to 95 per 
cent. 

The solvent quality of alcohol makes 
it useful to remove stains in silk, 
woolen, and other delicate fabrics, 
provided they are soluble and do not 
require chemical treatment. It may 
be mixed with benzine or aqua am- 
monia or both. It is most effective 
when the stains are fresh. 

Uses of Chloroform. — Chloroform 
is a colorless liquid with a, sweetish 
taste and characteristic odor. Its 
anaesthetic properties are well known. 
It . Is slightly soluble in water, but 
readily so in alcohol and ether. It 
has the property of dissolving cam- 
phor, resin, wax, rubber, iodine, and 
other substances. Chloroform may 
be employed to restore certain colors 
that were removed by acids after the 
acids have been destroyed by the ap- 
plication of ammonia. 

Uses of Turpentine. — Turpentine is 
a resinous oil obtained from cone- 
bearing trees. The commercial arti- 
cle is a solution of resin in a volatile 
oil. Turpentine has a well-known 
spicy odor, a bitter taste, and burns 
freely. Oil of turpentine, obtained 
by distillation, is a colorless liquid 
with a peculiar odor; it is insoluble 
in water, but dissolves readily in al- 
cohol or ether. It also dissolves 
resin, gummy substances, oils, rubber, 
iodine, sulphur, and phosphorus. 
Hence its usefulness in treating stains 
produced by such substances. The 
commercial article is sold in various 
grades, and is used extensively in 
the preparation of paints and var- 
nishes. 

To Apply Turpentine. — Turpentine 
■will remove paint, grease, or vaseline 
stains without injury to the most 
delicate fabric. Apply sufficient tur- 
pentine to soak the paint or grease 
spot. Use a camel's-hair brush, a 
common pen or feather, or, for large 
spots, a sponge. 



Or apply by dropping from a glass 
bottle. 

The turpentine may be mixed with 
alcohol, salts of lemon, or sulphuric 
ether. 

Kinds and Uses of Ahsorbents. — 
Various absorbents are redommended 
to remove grease, wax, blood, ink, 
mildew, and other stains from fab- 
rics. Among the most useful of these 
are brown paper and blotting paper. 
Others are chalk, French chalk (which 
is not chalk but ground soapstone), 
pipe clay, fuller's earth, magnesia, 
gypsum, common starch, and melted 
tallow. 

One of the quickest and best meth- 
ods to remove grease (especially when 
it is fresh) and spots of wax is to 
lay over the spot a piece of common 
brown paper and press with a hot 
iron. Care must be taken not to use 
an iron hot enough to change the 
colors of colored silks and print 
goods. If convenient the spot may 
be previously covered with French 
chalk. 

Or any of the above powders may 
be applied dry. The grease or wax 
will be taken up more quickly if held 
near a sto\»fe or pressed with a hot 
iron. 

For mildew, rub the spots with wet 
soap, rub in pipe clay, fuller's earth, 
or chalk, cover thickly with the same, 
and expose to sunshine. 

For blood stains use cornstarch. 
A mixture of 6 ounces of fuller's 
earth, 1 ounce of pipe clay, 1 ounce 
of French chalk, J ounce of oil of 
turpentine, J ounce of alcohol, and IJ 
ounces of' melted castile soap is high- 
ly recommended. 

Chlorine and Uses of Bleaching 
Powder. — This is the chloride of lime 
prepared by exposing damp slacked 
lime to chlorine gas. A good, fresh 
article contains 35 to 30 per cent of 
effective chlorine, which is » power- 
ful bleaching agent. It decomposes 
and deteriorates with time, setting 
free hydrochloric acid, to which the 
bleaching is due. This is a pale- 
yellow gas that has the property 
of decomposing various kinds of col- 



160 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



oring matter. Bleaching powder is 
one of tlie surest agents for removing 
ink stains or writing from white tex- 
tile fabric or paper. Cover the spots 
with dry bleaching powder and mois- 
ten with a weak mineral acid, as acetic 
or tartaric acid. This method is not 
suitable for colored goods, as the 
bleaching powder would remove the 
colors. Afterwards neutralize the acid 
by applying aqua ammonia or hypo- 
sulphite of soda. 

To Make and Use Tavelle Water. — 
Chloride of lime or Javelle water is a 
colorless liquid that may be prepared 
from bleaching powder. It is much 
used for taking fruit and other stains 
from white textile fabrics and for 
bleaching wood and straw. For fruit 
stains dissolve J pound of chloride of 
lime in 2 quarts of boiling water. 
Add to this 1 pound of sal soda. Dis- 
solve, settle, and pour off the clear 
liquid. This is Javelle water. Apply 
with a brush, rinse in clear water, 
and dip in ammonia water to neu- 
tralize the acid. 

Or dissolve 2 ounces of chloride of 
lime in 1 quart of boiling water. Im- 
merse the fabric in this for S min- 
utes. Remove, add 4 quarts of cold 
water, and soak the article for 3 
to 13 hours, depending upon the 
strength of the fabric. This is heroic 
treatment, and should only be used 
on coarser articles, as duck, canvas, 
and the like, as it tends to rot the 
fabric. Afterwards immerse in a so- 
lution of 4 ounces of hyposulphite of 
soda to 1 gallon of water to neutral- 
ize the acid. Rinse in clear water and 
wash in soapsuds. 

Nature of Gasoline. — Gasoline is a 
product of the distillation of petro- 
leum. The first liquid that passes 
over in the distillation of petroleum 
is crude naphtha. By redistillation 
this is separated into gasoline and 
the A, B, and C grades of naphtha. 
Gasoline is very commonly used for 
domestic heating and cooking in 
stoves especially prepared for the pur- 
pose, and also for the production of 
power in gasoline engines. It is high- 
ly inflammable and explosive. It gives 



off under ordinary temperature a vol- 
atile gas which, by contact with 
flame, or a hot stove, wUl ignite at a 
distance of several feet from the 
liquid gasoline. Great caution must, 
therefore, be exercised in its use. 

Benzine is a substance similar to 
gasoline, and may be used for spong- 
ing fabrics in the same manner. 

How to TJse Grasoline. — Employed 
by the following methods gasoline 
will thoroughly cleanse wool, silk, vel- 
vet, and other fabrics of animal fibers, 
but not cotton, and will remove 
grease, paint, wax, and mud stains; 
in fact, practically all stains except 
acid ones, without injury to the tex- 
ture or colors of the fabric. Dirt and 
other impurities removed will sink to 
the bottom and can be removed by 
straining through cheese cloth. Hence 
the same gasoline may be used again 
and again. The best results are ob- 
tained by using a fairly large quan- 
tity of gasoline and soaking and 
washing the articles in it the same as 
in water. The cost of cleaning with 
gasoline is much less than is charged 
by a professional cleaner, and also 
much less than replacing the articles. 
Hence it pays to purchase the best 
gasoline in five-gallon cans, and to 
provide and set aside two or three 
covered earthenware jars in which to 
use it. 

Cleaning with gasoline should be 
done preferably out of doors, or if 
indoors, by daylight, and never in the 
vicinity of a hot stove, lamp, or other 
flame. Care must be taken that 
matches are not accidentally lighted 
in its vicinity. 

First, shake and brush the articles 
to remove dust and dirt. Remove 
rubber dress shields or other pieces of 
rubber, as they wiU be spoiled. Tack 
small articles together and wash larger 
ones singly in an earthenware jar 
filled with gasoline and allow them to 
soak for an hour or more. If the jar 
can be put in a pan which is sur- 
rounded with hot water (but not on 
a stove or near any open flame), the 
gasoline vrill do its work quicker and 
better and wiU be less disagreeable 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



161 



for the hands. After soaking, work 
the articles about, rubbing carefully 
between the fingers, or rub the spots 
with a toothbrush or nailbrush hav- 
ing fairly soft bristles. Or dip the 
brush into a small can of gasoline 
set into a pan of hot water. Squeeze 
the gasoline out of the garments and 
put them into a second jar, into 




" Cleaning with Gasoline Out of Doors." 

which pour fresh gasoline, meantime 
putting other articles to soak in the 
first jar. A third jar may be used 
if necessary. After rinsing in the 
second or third jar squeeze the gar- 
ments quite dry, stretch carefully to 
their proper shape, and thoroughly 
evaporate by airing them on a line, 
and afterwards pressing them with a 
hot iron. Hang coats or waists on a 
coat hanger to keep in shape while 
drying. 

Pour the gasoline back into the can 
.through a funnel covered with several 
thicknesses of cheese cloth. 

Or, to remove a spot or a stain, 
stretch the fabric over a piece of 
blotting paper and pour the gasoline 
around it. Sponge from the center 
outwardly until the spot is removed. 
Take a dry cloth and continue rub- 



bing in the same manner with light 
strokes until the article is dry. 

Or sprinkle a little powdered gyp- 
sum over the spot, extending beyond 
the moistened part. When this is 
brushed off, the spot will be removed. 

Or, if a benzine stain, rub French 
chalk into . it with a piece of flannel, 
sprinkle a layer of the chalk over it, 
and let stand for twenty-four hours. 

Cleansing Mixtures. — Dissolve 6 
drams of gum camphor in 2 ounces 
of alcohol. Mix separately 3 drams 
of pipe clay with 4 ounces of beef's 
gall. Also mix separately J ounce 
each of borax, saltpeter, and honey. 
Shave into a saucepan large enough 
to hold all these ingredients 8 ounces 
of castile or other good hard white 
soap, add the mixture of gall and 
pipe clay, and melt with gentle heat, 
stirring constantly. Remove from the 
fire, and when cool stir in first the 
saltpeter, borax, and honey, then the 
camphor and alcohol. Lastly add J 
ounce of spirits of turpentine and J 
ounce of sulphuric ether. Pour quick- 
ly into a black glass bottle, cork 
tightly, and store in a dark place. 
This preparation contains no free al- 
kali, will not injure any ordinary 
fabric, and contains solvents for prac- 
tically every kind of spot or stain 
likely to be met with in garments. 
It is suitable for silks, woolens, and 
Indeed all ordinary fabrics. 

Or shave 4 ounces of castile or 
other hard white soap and dissolve in 
2 quarts of boiling water. Remove 
from the fire, and when cold add i 
ounce of saltpeter, stirring until dis- 
solved. Strain through cheese cloth, 
let the mixture settle, and take off the 
scum with a skimmer. Now add J 
pint of ammonia and bottle and cork 
tightly. Keep in an earthenware jug 
with a tight cork. This is the so-called 
" Magic Annihilator," which is recom- 
mended to remove grease and oil 
from all kinds of dress goods and 
other fabrics without injuring them, 
and for various other purposes, as 
scouring floors, cleaning windows, 
metals, etc. It must not be used on 
woodenware, as it will remove paint, 



162 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



for which purpose it is especially 
recommended. 

Pour this liquid on both sides of 
the spot or article to be cleaned. 
Scrub with a stiff brush, sponge, or 
loof, and rinse with cold water. Re- 
peat if necessary. To clean silverware 
and other metals mix with whiting. 

Chemical Soap. — Shave 1 pound of 
I Castile soap, add J pint of alcohol, i 
pint of soft water, J ounce of aqua- 
fortis, J ounce of lampblack, i ounce 
of saltpeter, J ounce of potash, J 
ounce of camphor, 1 ounce of pow- 
dered cinnamon. Dissolve the soap in 
water, stir in the potash and saltpe- 
ter, remove from the fire, add the 
other ingredients, and stir until cool. 
Pour into molds and put away in a 
dry place to season. The longer it is 
seasoned before using the better. 

Or shave 1 ounce of castile soap, 
cover with 1 pint of Water, and boil 
untU dissolved. Stir in 3 ounces of 
sal soda, i ounce of starch, i ounce of 
borax. Pour into molds to cool and 
harden. Apply with a rag, sponge, or 
loof to remove grease, paint, tar, etc. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of castile soap 
with gentle heat in about twice its 
own bulk of water. Add enough hot 
water to make 1 pint; let cool slight- 
ly. Stir in 1 teaspoonful of saltpeter 
and 3 ounces of aqua ammonia. 

Or mix 3 ounces of alcohol, i ounce 
of bay rum, 1 ounce of oil of winter- 
green, J ounce of aqua ammonia, | 
ounce of chloroform, and 1 ounce of 
sulphuric ether. Cork tightly and let 
stand over night. Add 1 ounce of 
pulverized borax and 1 gallon of de- 
odorized gaspline. Shake well and 
cork tightly. 

Or mix i ounce of borax and J 
ounce of camphor in a quart fruit 
jar. Pour over them 1 pint of boil- 
ing water. Cork tightly and let stand 
until cool.' Now add J pint of alco- 
hol, shake well, and cork tightly. Use 
to sponge woolen dress goods, men's 
clothing, felt hats,' and the like. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of castile soap 
scraped in 1 quart of boiling water. 
Let cool and add J ounce of glycerin, 
i ounce of alcohol, and J ounce of 



sulphuric ether. Bottle, cork tightly, 
and keep in a dark place. Use to 
sponge all sorts of dress goods, and 
especially to remove grease spots. 

Or mix equal parts of turpentine, 
benzine, and chloroform. 

Scouring Mixtures. — Mix 3 pounds 
of fuller's earth, J pound of pipe clay, 
2 ounces of powdered French chalk. 
Mix separately 1 ounce of rectified 
spirits of turpentine, 1 ounce of alco- 
hol, and 13 ounces of soap jelly. Stir 
the two mixtures together to a stiff 
paste and place in tightly covered 
fruit jars. 

Or mix equal parts of fuller's earth 
and soap jelly. To apply, moisten 
the cloth with warm water and cover 
with this mixture, rubbing it well 
into the goods. Let stand until dry, 
then scour with a stiff brush and 
warm water. 

Or mix 1 ounce of baking soda, 1 
ounce of prepared chalk, 1 ounce of 
pumice stone, and 1 ounce of sifted 
wood ashes. Apply this mixture with 
a piece of raw white potato. 

Or moisten 1 ounce of fuller's earth 
with lemon juice; add J ounce of 
pearlash and 1 ounce of yeUow soap 
melted with as little water as possi- 
ble. Mix the whole and knead into a 
stiff paste. Roll into balls the size of 
marbles and put them in the sun to 
dry. Moisten the spot with warm 
water and scour with one of these 
balls; then put in the sun to dry. 
Afterwards rinse with clear water. 

Nature of the Fabric. — The treat- 
ment of spots and stains depends not 




She. 



!p Silkworm Alpaca 




Seal 



Camel 



Ostrich 



" With Animal Fibers Cautioh is Necessary." 

only upon the kind of stain, but also 
upon the nature of the fabric. Fab- 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



163 



rics are of two principal classes : vege- 
table fibers, which include linen and 
cotton goods; and animal fibers, which 
include wool, silk, furs, feathers, and 
the like. All vegetable fibers contain 
cellulose, a hard, woodlike substance 




"All Vegetable Fibers Contain Cellulose." 

that offers a strong resistance to the 
action of chemical agents, and is not 
easily injured by rubbing. Hence 
stronger acids and alkalies and more 
vigorous rubbing can be employed 
upon cottons and linens than upon 
wool, silk, or other animal fibers. 

In the treatment of wool, caution is 
necessary from the fact that the fibers 
of wool have numerous minute hook- 
like projections which, by rubbing the 
fibers together, or by alternate expan- 
sion and contraction (as when plunged 
from hot water to cold water, and 
back again), become interlaced in 
such a way as to warp fabric in all 
directions. This is what causes the 
shrinking of woolen goods, so much 
dreaded by the laundress. Hence 
wool should not be rubbed or wrung 
out in the usual way, nor subjected 
to either very hot or very cold water. 
The water should be lukewarm or not 
too warm to bear the hands com- 
fortably, and aU washing and rinsing 
waters should be kept at a nearly 
imiform temperature. 

A similar caution in handling silk 
is due to the delicacy of the fabric. 
Silk, if rubbed or wrung out, tends 
to crack or to show permanent wrin- 
kles. It should accordingly be han- 
dled with care, and only the finer 
grades of soap should be employed 
in cleaning it. 



KINDS OF SPOTS AND STAINS 

The principal stains and spots the 
laundress has to do with are tea, cof- 
fee, and wine stains, iron rust, and 
ink; paint and tar, grass stains and 
mildew, blood stains, grease spots, 
and mud stains. These should all be 
removed from washable articles be- 
fore sending them to the laundry. 
Hence many housekeepers set apart 
Tuesday for wash day, and take oc- 
casion Monday to sort the wash and 
carefully remove all stains, and sponge 
or scrub or dry-clean any articles 
that may require it. 

Grass Stains. — White and other 
light-colored summer gowns, duck 
and flannel trousers, and children's 
garments frequently show grass stains 
in summer. The green stain is pro- 
duced by chlorophyll, a coloring mat- 
ter present in growing vegetation. 
This, when exposed to the action of 
the air, becomes changed into chloro- 
phyllan, which is insoluble in water. 
Grass stains when fresh may be re- 
moved by sponging with alcohol, biit 
after the chlorophyll has been con- 
verted into chlorophyllan, the action 
of alcohol will leave an insoluble 
brown stain in place of the green. 
Neither oxalic nor muriatic acid is ef- 
fective with grass stains, but a hot 
solution of tartaric acid changes the 
green stain to light brown, that yields 
readily to boiling soapsuds in the 
laundry. If tartaric acid is not at 
band, wet the stain and apply cream 
of tartar or salts of lemon. 

Or dissolve cream of tartar in boil- 
ing water and apply hot. 

Or rub grass stains with moleisses 
and wash in clear, soft water without 
soap. Do not use oxalic or muriatic 
acid. 

Tea and Coffee Stains. — These, 
when fresh, all yield readily to the 
action of boiling water, especially if 
the fabric be stretched tightly and 
the boiling water poured upon it with 
some force. If stains have been 
neglected and fixed by soap in the 
laundry, it may be necessary to ap- 
ply dilute oxalic acid or chloride of 



164 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



lime, or to treat them with lemon 
juice and salt, salts of lemon, and 
other remedies, afterwards exposing 
the artide to the air and smishine. 
The stains of berries, especially of 
blackberries, and of plimis and 
peaches, are very refractory. Hence, 
if possible, these should have imme- 
diate treatment. 

Faint. — Paint and resin may be 
quickly dissolved by the action of 
turpentine, benzine, chloroform, or 
sulphurous ether, the treatment de- 
pending upon the nature of the fab- 
ric. Tar may be rubbed with lard 
and afterwards removed by washing. 
Oils may be dissolved by alcohol, 
ether, or spirits of turpentine. For 
colored goods, these may all be com- 
bined with ammonia and glycerin. 

Mildew. — Mildew is a fungous 
growth of certain parasitic, plants. 
It forms on cloth that is exposed to 
dampness in patches of various col- 
ors, red, black, yellow, or even green. 
Various substances may be used to 
prevent its forming. Mildew pro- 
duces a stain which is very refrac- 
tory. The treatment ■ depends upon 
the nature of the fabric and the ex- 
tent and depth of the stain, and varies 
from simple remedies, such as soap, 
lemon juice and salt, and the like, to 
chloride of lime and the more power- 
ful acids. Other substances recom- 
mended are French chalk, starch, and 
buttermilk. These must, of course, 
be used with proper caution and a 
due regard to the liability of injury 
to the fabric. They should be after- 
wards assisted by the bleaching agen- 
cies of air and sunshine. 

To Prevent Mildew. — Canvas, duck, 
and similar fabrics used for awnings, 
tents, and the like may be preserved 
against mildew by first soaking them 
in strong suds made by dissolving i 
pound of hard white or yellow soap 
in 3 gallons of water, and afterwards 
immersing the fabric, for a period of 
24 hours, in a solution of 1 pound 
of alum dissolved in 1 gallon of 
water. 

To Remove Mildew. — Dissolve 1 
ounce of chloride of^lime in 1 pint of 



boiling water; then add 3 pints of 
cold water. Soak the article in this 
from 3 to 12 hours. Remove, rinse 
thoroughly, and send to the laundry. 
If the chloride of lime is not thor- 
oughly washed out the fabric may be 
in j ured. 

Or rub the spot with good yellow 
^oap, wash, and while wet rub pow- 
dered chalk into it and cover with a 
layer of chalk. Lay the article on the 
grass in the sun and sprinkle clear 
water over it. Repeat this treatment 
until the mildew is removed. 

Or mix J pound of soap jeUy with 
2 ounces of starch, 1 ounce of salt, 
and the juice of 1 lemon. Pour over 
the stain, or apply with a brush. 

Iron Bust. — Stains from iron rust 
(or " iron mold," as they are some- 
times called) yield readily to both 
muriatic acid and oxalic acid, but as 
the latter is less injurious to fabrics, 
a hot solution of it gives most satis- 
faction. Other substances recom- 
mended to remove iron rust are salts 
of lemon, lemon juice, salt, cream of 
tartar, and various admixtures of 
these. In all cases wet the stained 
fabric, apply the cleansing substance, 
and hold in the steam of a teakettle, 
or expose to direct sunshine, spread- 
ing on the grass when convenient un- 
tU the stain is removed. Repeat the 
treatment as often as is necessary. 

To make salts of lemon, mix equal 
parts of cream of tartar and pow- 
dered salt of sorrel. Wet the spot, 
and apply dry salts to the wet sur- 
face. 

Or mix lemon juice with salt and 
cover thickly. 

Or use equal parts of cream of tar- 
tar and oxalic acid, or equal parts of 
cream of tartar and salt. 

To Remove Whitewash. — To re- 
move whitewash stains apply strong 
vinegar. 

Vaseline Stains. — ^Wash in warm 
soapsuds, rinse, and apply chlorinated 
soda. 

Wax Stains. — ^Apply alcohol or 
naphtha with a camel's-hair brush, 
sponge, or piece of rag. 

Or hold the stains within an inch 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



165 



or two of a, red-hot iron, and rub 
with a soft, clean rag. 

Or lay over them a piece of brown 
paper, and iron with a hot iron. 

faint Stains. — Saturate the stains 
with gasoline and rub with a small 
sponge or flannel rag. Continue un- 
til the paint is absorbed, and rub with 
a clean cloth until dry. 

Or saturate the spot for some 
hours with turpentine, and afterwards 
rub the article between the hands, 
when the paint will crumble and can 
be dusted away without injury to the 
fabric. 

Iodine Stains. — As iodine is often 
applied externally to the skin, it fre- 
quently stains cotton and linen gar- 
ments. To prevent this add a few 
drops of liquid carbolic acid to the 
iodine. » 

To remove the stains when fresh, 
dip the spots in aqua ammonia dilut- 
ed with warm water. 

Or soak the stains in a strong solu- 
tion of hyposulphite of soda and water. 

Or wet the fabric and cover with 
hyposulphite of soda untU the stains 
are removed. 

Nutgall Inks. — Formerly black ink 
was usually made of green vitriol dis- 
solved in an infusion of gallnuts. 
Inks of this sort stain paper perma- 
nently and speedily, rapidly darken 
for a while, but eventually become 
yeUow or brown with age. These old- 
fashioned inks were easily removed 
with oxalic and mineral acids, but the 
modern inks contain, in addition to 
tannate of iron (produced by the ac- 
tion of nutgalls upon copperas), ani- 
line blue, indigo, and other dye stuffs 
that are not removable by these acids. 
The first inks of this sort were placed 
upon the market about the middle of 
the nineteenth century. Many of the 
recipes still found in print claiming 
to remove all sorts of ink spots were 
originally published more than fifty 
years ago. All such recipes must be 
regarded with suspicion. No single 
recipe can be given that will remove 
stains made by every kind of ink. 

Chrome-logwood Ink. — Anothe; 
modern ink known as the chrome-log- 



wood ink is produced by the action 
of a solution of logwood upon potas- 
sium chromate. This is a deep pur- 
ple ink, that turns darker after being 
exposed to the air, and has the ad- 
vantage over iron-gall inks that it 
will not fade. Logwood is also com- 
bined with an extract of alum or 
chloride of aluminum. The best 
French copying inks are of this class. 
These inks may be removed by muri- 
atic acid, which first turns the spot 
red. This acid must not, however, be 
used on stylographic inks containing 
eosin or nigrosine, as it will turn 
them Into an indelible dye. 

Stylographic Ink. — ^This is a mod- 
ern ink made by dissolving in water 
the coal-tar product known as nigro- 
sine. It is used for stylographic pens 
on account of its fluidity, as it con- 
tains no sediment. This ink is of a 
deep blue-black color that does not 
change on exposure to the air and 
has little luster. It does not fade, 
and after a lapse of years is soluble 
in water. Hence if paper containing 
it is wet the color will run. The ef- 
fect upon a nigrosine ink of acids in 
certain recipes " guaranteed to re- 
move any ink spot " is to mordant or 
set the ink, rendering it insoluble and 
practically indelible. Hence it is al- 
ways advisable to moisten an ink spot 
with water, and if it blurs or smirch- 
es, thus indicating the presence of ni- 
grosine, washing soda, caustic soda, 
potash lye, or any other alkali should 
be used, but not an acid. 

Indelible Ink. — Indelible writing 
and marking inks are mostly finely 
divided carbon which, as is well 
known, offers great resistance to chem- 
ical agents. India and China inks are 
of this class. They are composed of 
carbon, chiefly lampblack or other 
soot, mixed with gum or glue. In- 
delible ink for marking textile fabrics 
is also made of nitrate of silver and 
other silver salts. 

Various other substances are em- 
ployed in ink making, but those we 
have given are the most common. 

Treatment of Ink Stains. — If the 
nature of an ink is known, the proper 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



treatment can, of course, be giyen; 
otherwise it is best to first dip the 
ink in water to test if nigrosine is 
present. 

If nigrosine is not present try oxal- 
ic acid, which will remove an old style 
iron-gall ink or decompose a modern 
iron-gall ink by removing the black 
tannate of iron, and leaving the in- 
digo and aniline blue dye stuffs as a 
stain on the fabric. If this is not 
effective, try muriatic acid. This will 
remove the stain of a logwood or 
copying ink. FoUow this with an al- 
kali to remove the effects of the acid. 

A nitrate of silver ink stain may 
be removed with cyanide of potas- 
sium, which is a deadly poison. 

Or apply a dilute solution of per- 
manganate of potash with muriatic 
acid; follow by soaking in a solution 
of hyposulphite of soda, and after- 
wards rinse in clear water. 

If all else fails, cover the spot with 
dry bleaching powder and moisten 
with dilute acetic acid. Afterwards 
apply ammonia, or dip in a solution 
of hyposulphite of soda and rinse. It 
must be borne in mind that strong 
acids and alkalies will injure the tex- 
ture of animal fibers as wool and silk 
and bleach colored fabrics. For such 
articles use pyrophosphate of soda. 

If a garment spotted with ink is 
especially valuable it would be well 
to try a series of experiments with 
the same ink on a piece of similar 
fabric. In the meantime cover the 
stain with various dry absorbents to 
take up the excess of ink. After 
these have done their work, soak the 
article in milk while the experiments 
are being made. 

Or if it is small dip it immediately 
into pure melted tallow. 

Lemon juice and salt, sour milk, 
and similar remedies are useful if 
suitable acids are not at hand, but 
cannot be depended on to do the work 
in a thorough manner. 

STAIHS ON WHITE EINEN OR COTTON 

Ink Stains. — Substances recom- 
mended for removing ink from linen 



are salts of lemon, cream of tartar, 
citric acid, oxalic acid, lemon juice, 
vinegar, salt, sour milk, and chloride 
of lime. The treatment to be em- 
ployed depends necessarily upon the 
nature of ink. 

Ink stains should be treated as 
quickly as possible, before the ink 
has had a chance to set. While fresh, 
pour over them a quantity of salt, dry 
starch, or other absorbent, and brush 
it away as it absorbs the ink. Keep 
the spots wet, and continue applying 
the absorbent until the ink is re- 
moved. 

Or keep the spots wet with milk, 
and apply dry salt until the stains 
come out. 

Or wash the stains with sour milk 
and let them soak over night. 

Or dip the stains alternately in 
strong bran water and lemon juice 
until they disappear. 

Or use equal parts cream of tartar 
and powdered salts of sorrel (salts 
of lemon), dissolved in the smallest 
possible quantity of boiling water 
and applied hot. 

Or rinse carefully in clean water 
and apply oxalic acid. If this pro- 
duces a red tinge apply dilute aqua 
ammonia. 

Or dip small articles, as laces, 
handkerchiefs, and the like, in melted 
tallow and after the stain has dis- 
appeared remove the tallow by boil- 
ing in hot soapsuds. This last is 
perhaps the simplest and best of all 
remedies. 

To Remove Marking Ink from 
Linen. — Apply fresh chloride of lime 
mixed with water. As soon as the 
color fades, dip into a solution of 
aqua ammonia or hyposulphite of 
soda, and rinse well before sending 
to the laundry. 

To Remove Indelible Ink. — Stains 
made by indelible ink containing ni- 
trate of silver may be removed by ap- 
plying chloride of copper. After- 
wards dip the article in hyposulphite 
of soda. 

Or apply a dilute solution of per- 
manganate of potash and muriatic 
acid, and foUow with hyposulphite of 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



167 



soda. Cyanide of potash is also used 
for this purpose. It is highly poison- 
ous. 

Or melt pure tallow and pour over 
the ink spot while hot. Remove the 
tallow by dipping in hot water; re- 
peat if necessary. This is a method 
employed by many dyers and clean- 
ers, and has the merit of not injur- 
ing the fabric. 

To Semove Printer's Ink. — Soak 
the spots in turpentine for several 
hours. Rub them in the turpentine, 
as in washing. Let dry and brush 
thoroughly with a stiff brush. 

To Eemove Iron Rust. — Use lemon 
juice, salt, and sunshine. Or a strong 
solution of oxalic acid rubbed in with 
the fingers. Or equal parts of pow- 
dered alum and salt applied dry to 
the wet fabric. 

Grass Stains. — Use tartaric acid or 
cream of tartar dissolved in boiling 
water. Apply hot. Or rub lard on 
the spot when fresh and afterwards 
wash as usual. 

Ink Stains. — Rub promptly with a 
slice of lemon. Or dip in pure melted 
tallow. Or apply a saturated solution 
of oxalic acid or dilute muriatic acid 
or salts of lemon. 

Use dilute tartaric acid for colored 
goods. If the colors fade, renew with 
dilute aqua anmionia. 

Acid Stains. — ^Wash the article and 
dip in Javelle or chlorine water. For 
'colored goods, moisten in dUute aqua 
ammonia. 

ITitrate of Silver or Nitric-acid 
Stains. — Apply iodine and rub brisk- 
ly with strong aqua ammonia. 

Or apply a dilute solution of per- 
manganate of potash and hydro- 
chloric acid. Afterwards dip in a 
solution of hyposulphite of soda and 
rinse weU. 

Uildew. — Boil in strong borax 
water. 

Iodine. — Soak for an hour or more 
in a warm solution of aqua ammonia 
and water. Then while still wet rub 
dry bicarbonate of potash into the 
stain until it is fully removed. 

Cod-liver Oil. — Add kerosene or 
aqua ammonia to the suds and boil. 



Red Wine. — Bleach with sulphur 
fumes over an inverted funnel, or dip 
in Javelle or chlorine water. 

Tannin Stains. — These may be pro- 
duced by green chestnut burs, walnut 
husks, or substances used for tanning 
leather. Dip in hot Javelle or chlorine 
water, remov^ and rinse quickly. Or 
apply a strong solution of tartaric 
acid. 

Red Stains from Colored Goods. — 
The dyes used for colored goods, red 
threads, etc., sometimes run and acci- 
dentally stain white goods. Apply 
fumes of sulphur through an inverted 
cone, or a saturated solution of ox- 
alic acid or Javelle or chlorine water. 

Mud Stains. — Dip the mud stains 
in kerosene before putting them in 
the boiler. Add kerosene to the boil- 
ing water. 

Grease Spots. — ^Apply a hot satu- 
rated solution of alum with a sponge 
or brush, or dissolve in 1 quart of 
warm water 3 ounces of aqua am- 
monia, 1 teaspoonfid of saltpeter, and 
3 ounces of caStile soap. Soak the 
spot in this liquid and sponge. 

Or moisten the spot with butter or 
olive oil and rub with chloroform. 

Hachine Grease. — Rub sal soda or 
cooking soda into the spot and pour 
boiling water through untU the spot 
is removed. 

To Dry-clean White Goods. — Small 
mud stains on a clean white skirt may 
be concealed until ready for the laun- 
dry by pipe clay or painting over with 
white water-color paint. 

Or if a clean white skirt or shirt 
waist is spattered or spotted by mud 
or soot, let it dry, scrape off with a 
penknife, and rub over the stain with 
white crayon or school chalk. 

Rub with a clean white cloth until 
the spot disappears. 

To Dry-clean Shirt Waists. — Put 4 
quarts of corn meal into a 24j-pound 
flour sack or a pillow slip. Put the 
waist into this, and rub or knead 
gently so that the meal will come in 
contact with aU parts of the fabric. 
Leave it there for a day or two, then 
shake and dust thoroughly, and press 
with a hot iron. 



168 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To Clean Cotton Dress Skirts. — 
Mud stains may be removed from the 
bottom of a cotton dress skirt by 
folding several thicknesses of cloth, 
laying the soiled parts upon them, 
and scrubbing with a nailbrush, 'soap, 
and water. 

TO BEMOVE SIAIirS FBOU VEGE- 
TABLE riBEBS 

To Remove Stains from Linen. — 
All tea, coffee, milk, and other stains 
or spots on linen should be removed 
as quickly as possible. If they ap- 
pear on a clean tablecloth slip be- 
neath the spot a small dish contain- 
ing hot water. Let the stain rest in 
the water, and rub gently with the 
fingers until it disappears. Smooth 
the cloth by putting a folded napkin 
underneath and applying a warm 
iron, and, without having been re- 
moved from the table, it will appear 
as fresh as when first laundered. 

For strong tea stains, put a spoon- 
ful of sugar on the stain, dip into the 
water, and let it stand for a few min- 
utes. Afterwards rinse with clear 
water. 

Or, if not convenient to treat in 
this way, cover the stain with a quan- 
tity of powdered starch, let dry, and 
remove by brushing. 

When dried tea, coffee, or milk 
stains are found in table linen, rub 
the stains with butter and afterwards 
rub in hot soapsuds before launder- 
ing. 

Or apply the yolk of an egg mixed 
with a teaspoonful of glycerin. 

Or take 10 teaspoonfuls of water, 1 
teaspoonful of glycerin, and J tea- 
spoonful of aqua ammonia. Dip the 
stain in this and allow it to dry. 
Repeat several times. Afterwards 
rub the spot between the fingers, and 
before sending the article to the laun- 
dry brush or scrub away the dry resi- 
due with the edge of a knife. 

Mildew on Linen. — Mildew may be 
removed from linen as from other 
fabrics with powdered chalk, lemon 
juice, salt, and pipe clay, and after- 
wards exposing to sunlight. Wash 



the spots in soapsuds made of hard 
white or yeUow soap. Rub in pow- 
dered chalk vnth a flannel cloth, cov- 
er the spot with more chalk, and lay 
in the sun. Repeat if necessary. 

Or soak the spots in lemon juice 
and apply common salt. Afterwards 
cover with pipe clay or powdered 
chalk, or use equal parts powdered 
starch and salt. 

To Remove Ink from Linen. — 
Treatment depends upon the nature 
of the ink. Stretch the linen before 
the steam of a teakettle and brush 
with a strong solution of salts of 
lemon. 

Or use acetic or muriatic acid, not 
too strong. Rinse as soon as the ink 
disappears. Or apply salt and lemon 
juice. Or use the juice of a ripe to- 
mato. Squeeze the juice upon the 
ink and rub with the fingers. Rinse 
and apply the juice again, until the 
stain disappears. 

Linen, Harking Ink. — Apply a 
saturated solution of cyanide of po- 
tassium, rubbing with a glass rod. 
Rinse as soon as the ink disappears. 

Linen, Iron Bust and Hold. — Cov- 
er the stain with salts of lemon and 
stretch it across the steam of a tea- 
kettle or a saucepan full of boiling 
water, so that the salts of lemon will 
be gradually dissolved by the steam 
and soaked into the fabric. 

Or put a common dinner plate on 
top of a saucepan containing boiling 
water. Lay the linen over this, cover 
the stain with salts of lemon, and 
keep wet with hot water until the 
stain is removed. Afterwards rinse 
carefully in cold water. 

Or rub the spot with butter, then 
add a small quantity of potash lye, 
and again rub the spot until the stain 
has disappeared. Rinse quickly in 
cold water. 

Linen, Yellow Stains. — If linen has 
faded yellow or become stained from 
perspiration, dissolve about one table- 
spoonful of pipe clay in the water in 
which it is boiled. 

Linen, Acid Stains.— Wet the arti- 
cle, and cover it with salts of worm- 
wood. Rub the dry salt into the wet 



PEEPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



169 



fabric until the stain disappears. 
Afterwards rinse thoroughly. 

Or form a cone by twisting and 
pinning together a piece of paper, 
and under this light a number of old- 
fashioned brimstone matches or burn 
a bit of sulphur. Hold the stain so 
that the sulphurous-acid gas escaping 
through the cone will pass through it. 

Linen, Iodine Stains. — Dip the spot 
in cold water and hold it by the fire 
until dry. Repeat until the stain is 
removed. 

linen, Fruit and Wine Stains. — 
While fresh put a little baking soda 
or washing soda on the stain, stretch 
it tightly over a bowl or pan, and 
pour boiling water upon the stain so 
as to dissolve the soda. No fresh 
fruit, wine, tea, coffee, or other com- 
mon stain is likely to withstand this 
treatment. Let the spot sink into the 
water and soak until the water cools, 
dipping it up and down and rubbing 
with the fingers. When the water 
cools repeat, if necessary, until the 
stain disappears. 

Or rub salts of lemon upon the 
stain and soak in hot water. Or dip 
in a weak solution of chloride of lime 
with water. Afterwards rinse care- 
fully. Or rub in starch with yellow 
soap, then apply starch thickly mois- 
tened with water and expose to the 
sun. Or soak in sour buttermilk. Or 
apply oxalic acid. 

linen, Tea or Coffee Stainsr — If 
tea or coflFee stains are noticed at the 
time they are made, remove the table- 
cloth as soon as convenient, stretch 
the cloth over a pan, and pour boil- 
ing water through the stains. 

Or, if they are small and the table- 
cloth is clean, slip a saucer or small 
nappy containing boiling water un- 
der the tablecloth and let the stain 
lie in the water. Rub gently with 
the fingers until it is removed. Re- 
move the dish, put a folded napkin 
under the stain, and go over it with 
a warm iron. The cloth will then be 
as fresh as new without having been 
removed from the table. Add a little 
glycerin to the boiling water to re- 
move coffee stains. 



Or, if an old stain is found on a 
tablecloth in the laundry, first soak 
the spot in cold water without soap, 
and try to remove with boiling water 
and glycerin. If this is not effectual, 
mix the yolk of an egg with a table- 
spoonful of milk and a little warm 
water. Add a few drops of alcohol 
or chloroform, if convenient, and use 
this as soap. 

Linen, Wine Stains. — Pile a little 
dry salt on a fresh wine stain and it 
will absorb the wine. Afterwards 
rinse in boiling water. Dip old stains 
in boiling milk until removed. 

Linen, Blood Stains. — For fresh 
blood stains on white fabrics apply 
peroxide of hydrogen, which wUl im- 
mediately remove the color from th^ 
blood. This is a strong bleaching 
substance. Hence it must not be used 
on colored fabrics, and must be im- 
mediately rinsed, especially from 
woolen' goods. 

Or soak in warm water and cover 
with dry pepsin. This will digest the 
blood. 

Or moisten the stain slightly with 
water and apply a thick layer of 
common starch. Afterwards rinse in 
cold water. 

TO BEMOVE STAINS EBOU ATSmHAJ. 
FIBEBS 

To Prepare Silks for Cleaning. — 
If silk garments are to be made over 
or if the silk is much soiled, rip them, 
remove all basting threads, and stretch 
out creases and wrinkles. Brush 
thoroughly all articles, including rib- 
bons and small pieces, to remove dust 
and dirt, shake well, and stretch them 
to their original shape. Clear a wood- 
en kitchen table or an ironing board, 
and on this stretch an old linen towel, 
tacking the corners down tightly. 
Smooth the silk out flat on the towel, 
and sponge first on the wrong side, 
afterwards on the right,, applying 
with a small toothbrush or nailbrush 
or flannel cloth any of the following 
recipes that may be most convenient. 
After sponging on both sides rinse in 
clear cold water by dipping up and 



170 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



down, but without wringing or squeez- 
ing, partly dry in the shade, and press 
between two pieces of cloth, ironing 
on the wrong side with a warm, not 
hot, iron. 

Or while wet spread the sUk 
smoothly on a wooden polished sur- 




Ckar a Wooden Kitchen Table." 



face, as a varnished table top, and 
let it dry near the fire. It will then 
require no ironing. 

To Remove Grease from Silk. — For 
removing grease spots from silk, 
chloroform, French chalk, essence of 
lemon, turpentine, white clay, mag- 
nesia, yolk of egg, and benzine are all 
recommended. If possible, apply any 
of these while the grease is stiU 
warm. 

To Clean Silk and Velvet. — Sub- 
stances recommended for removing 
grease and other spots and stains 
from sUks, satins, and velvets are al- 
cohol, chloroform, benzine, turpen- 
tine, juice of raw potato, magnesia, 
French chalk, pipe clay, yolk of egg, 
and various admixtures of these. Lay 
the stained article flat on a smooth 
surface and apply the cleansing flviid 
with a small sponge, toothbrush, or 
nailbrush, unless otherwise directed, 
untU the stain is removed. Apply 
chloroform with a light, quick touch, 
using a bit of absorbent cotton or 
soft cotton rag. Dampen the grease, 
and when it disappears rub imtil dry 



with clean cloth. To use gasoline or 
benzine, wet the spot and also a 
rather large circle around it. Rub 
outward from the center vrith quick, 
firm strokes, and if the benzine leaves 
a stain hold it in the steam of a tea- 
kettle untU it disappears. 

Or rub grease spots with a limip of 
wet magnesia. This may be dusted 
off when dry. Or mix 4 ounces of 
rectified spirits of turpentine with I 
ounce of pure alcohol. Or mix 2 
ounces of essence of lemon and 1 
ounce of oil of turpentine. Or use 
turpentine alone. Or mix 2 ounces 
of alcohol, 1 ounce of French chalk, 
and S ounces of pipe clay. Apply as 
a paste to the grease spots. 

Or cover grease spots thickly with 
French chalk, lay brown paper over 
them, and smooth with a hot iron. 
The iron will melt the grease, and the 
chalk and paper will absorb it. 

Or if chalk is not at hand lay a 
piece of brown paper on the ironing 
board, lay the silk over this, place 
another piece of brown paper on top, 
and press with a hot iron, but not so 
hot as to scorch the fabric. This is 
a most effective method. 

Or apply the yolk of an egg with 
or without the addition of 12 drops 
of chloroform or a teaspoonful of al- 
cohol. Afterwards rinse with warm 
water. 

To Clean Silk with Potato Juice. 
— Grate two fair-sized dean raw po- 
tatoes into each pint of water used 
and strain through cheese cloth. Let 
the resulting liquor stand until the 
potato starch it contains settles to the 
bottom, then pour off the clear liquid 
and bottle it. Lay a washboard down 
flat, spread over this a clean cloth, 
and lay the silk upon it Apply the 
potato juice with a sponge imtil the 
silk is ctean, and afterwards rinse it 
in clear cold water. 

To Clean Silk with Gasoline. — 
Gasoline and benzine may be applied 
to silk with a sponge, but this should 
be done by daylight and never in the 
vicinity of an open fire or flame of 
any kind. These liquids are highly 
volatile, producing a gas which will 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



171 



ignite and explode if it comes in con- 
tact with an open flame. After cleans- 
ing with gasoline or benzine rinse the 
silk in alcohol. 

Cleansing Mixtures for Silk. — 
Make a soap jelly by dissolving pure 
Castile or other hard white soap or 
toilet soap in about four times its 
bulk of water. Take J pound of this 
soap and add 4 ounces of ammonia, 
the white of an egg, and a wineglass- 
ful of gin or tablespoonful of brandy. 
Mix thoroughly and strain through 
cheese cloth; dilute with a small 
quantity of soft soap. Spread the 
sUk smoothly on a flat surface and 
apply the mixture with a sponge or 
nailbrush to both sides, taking care 
not to crease or wrinkle the fabric. 
Rinse in cold water, adding salt and 
oxgall for colored articles. 

Black Silk. — Vairious substances 
are recommended for cleaning black 
sUks, including infusion of oxgall; 
logwood, copperas, tea, coffee, fig 
leaves, vinegar, and ammonia. The 
preparation and use of these is ex- 
plained below. 

Dust the article carefully, spread 
smooth on a flat surface, and apply, 
with a sponge or piece of flannel, a 
cold, strong infusion of black tea. 

Or use equal parts of clear cold 
coffee and soft water. Or equal parts 
of coffee and aqua ammonia. Or a 
dilute solution of aqua ammonia in 
water. 

Any left-over tea or coffee may be 
used for this purpose. Strain through 
cheese cloth to remove the dregs. 
Sponge or scrub both sides of the 
fabric, taking care not to crease it. 
Make the sUk quite wet. Smooth the 
articles carefully and press as for 
other silk fabrics. Coffee removes 
grease and renews the sUk without 
making it shiny. 

Or make a strong solution of ivy 
or fig leaves by boUing 4 ounces of 
either with 2 quarts of water down to 
a pint. Strain through cheese cloth 
and bottle for future use. Apply 
with a sponge and brush or flannel 
cloth. 

Or sponge with oxgall slightly di- 



luted with boiling water and applied 
warm. Rinse in cold water from time 
to time and continue the oxgall until 
the rinsing water is clear. 

Or make a strong solution of log- 
wood by boiling 1 ounce in 2 quarts 
of water down to 1 pint. Wash the 
silk clean, immerse in the solution 
and simmer with gentle heat for half 
an hour. Remove the silk, add J 
ounce of copperas to the solution, 
strain through cheese cloth, and dip 
the silk in it. 

Or save old kid gloves of all colors, 
and when silks require cleaning cut 
up a glove of the same color into 
small pieces and boil it in a pint of 
water a quarter of an hour. Let it 
stand twenty-four hours in a warm 
place, again raise it to a boil, strain 
through cheese cloth, and add a 
tablespoonful of alcohol. Sponge with 
this. 

Or wash the articles in gasoline, 
dipping them up and down and rub- 
bing lightly between the hands as in 
water. Care must be taken not to 
wrinkle or crease the fabric. This 
removes the dirt quickly and does not 
cause the colors to run. 

To Bemove Wax from Silk. — 
Scrape off the excess of wax from the 
surface of the fabric with a penknife. 
Apply French chalk made into a 
paste with water. Lay the sUk on a 
piece of brown paper spread over the 
ironing board, put another sheet of 
brown paper on it, and press with a 
hot iron. 

Or toast a piece of soft bread be- 
fore the fire until quite hot, but not 
burned, and rub the wax spot with 
the hot bread until cold. Take an- 
other piece, and so continue until the 
wax is removed. Afterwards rub 
with the dry bread crumbs until per- 
fectly clean. 

Silk — To Remove Faint. — Apply a 
mixture of S parts of spirits of tur- 
pentine and 1 part of essence of 
lemon with a small brush, sponge, or 
linen rag. Or apply turpentine alone. 

Silk — To Remove Tar. — Rub lard 
on the tar, and afterwards wash with 
soapsuds. 



172 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Silk, Stains of Sea Water. — Sponge 
with dilute aqua ammonia and water. 

Silk, Acid Stains. — If the color has 
been taken out by acid stains, apply 
aqua ammonia. 

To Remove Acid Stains from Vio- 
let Silk. — First apply tincture of 
iodine, and immediately afterwards 
cover the spot with hyposulphite of 
soda dissolved in water. Hang in the 
shade to dry. 

To Clean Velvet. — ^First dust the vel- 
vet thoroughly, using for this purpose 
an old piece of rolled-up crape. Sponge 
with benzine or gasoline, same as silk. 
Stretch the velvet right Side up over 
a basin of boiling water so that the 
steam must pass through it. While 
thus stretched brush with a whisk 
broom in the direction of the nap. 
The time spent depends upon the 
condition of the velvet, but if patient- 
ly continued the result will be entire- 
ly satisfactory. Any ingenious person 
can arrange a contrivance to hold the 
velvet in place while brushing, or an 
assistant may do so. 

Or dampen a newspaper and set it 
in a hot oven until it steams. Lay 
this on the ironing board, cover it 
with a folded cotton cloth, and lay 
the velvet on it. WhUe the steam is 
rising, brush the velvet against the 
pile. 

Or heat a flatiron, turn it .face up- 
ward, and lay a wet cotton cloth on 
it. Lay the velvet, nap up, over the 
iron, and brush while steaming. 

To Revive Faded Velvet or Flush. 
— Brush slightly with a sponge dipped 
in chloroform. 

To Clean Satin. — Sponge satin neck- 
ties and other small articles with a 
weak solution of borax, following the 
grain, and afterwards iron on the 
wrong side. 

To Clean White Silk.— White silk 
may be washed in soapsuds the same 
as other delicate white fabrics, being 
careful not to rub or squeeze the fab- 
ric so as to cause creases or wrinkles. 

Or it may be washed in gasoline, 
or dry-cleaned by rubbing or dusting 
it with magnesia and laying it away 
for twp or three days in a, paper bag 



covered with magnesia, afterwards 
brushing it with a soft, heavy brush. 

Naphtha soap will remove most 
stains from white silk, including paint 
stains. 

To Bleach White Silk. — When 
white silk articles have become yellow 
from the laundry or from being packed 
away, dip them in a solution of one 
tablespoonful of ammonia to a quart 
of warm water. Squeeze out this solu- 
tion, and rinse in bluing water until 
fully restored. Hang in the shade to 
dry and while damp press between 
dry cloths on the wrong side. 

Or dissolve 4 ounces of salt and 4 
ounces of oxalic acid in 6 quarts of 
water. Immerse the silk in this solu- 
tion until it is bleached white. This 
will require a half hour to an hour 
or more. Rinse thoroughly. 

Or the silk, after having been laun- 
dered, may be bleached with the 
fumes of brimstone. Suspend a large- 
sized paper flour sack upside down, 
either out of doors on a still day or 
in an outhouse, and put in it the arti- 
cle to be bleached, attaching it to the 
sides of the bag with pins or basting 
thread. Put burning coke or char- 
coal on an iron pan, cover with flow- 
ers of sulphur, and invert a tin fun- 
nel over it so that the fumes will pass 
up into the bag. Afterwards sponge 
the article carefully and expose to air 
and sunshine until the odor has 
passed off. 

To Remove Stains from Colored 
Silks. — To remove acid stains, apply 
liquid ammonia with a brush or soft 
rag, taking care not to rub the fabric, 
as the ammonia may cause the colors 
to fade or rim. Should this happen, 
afterwards apply chloroform to re- 
store the color. 

Or cover the spot with cooking 
soda or magnesia and moisten with 
clear water. 

TO CLEAN COLORED GOODS 

Alkali Stains. — Moisten the spot 
with vinegar or tartaric acid, and af- 
terwards apply chloroform to restore 
its color. 



PREPARATIONS VOR WASH DAY 



173 



Grease Spots. — Cover the spot witi. 
fuller's earth, pipe clay, or French 
chalk. Place over this a layer of 
brown paper and press with a hot iron. 

Truit and Wine Stains. — ^Wet with 
a mixture of equal parts of alcohol 
and ammonia. Afterwards sponge 
gently with alcohol until the stain is 
removed. 

Or rub the spot with soap, and ap- 
ply chloride of soda with a camel's- 
hair brush, rinsing quickly and thor- 
oughly. 

Wax Stains. — Scrape off the sur- 
plus of wax from the surface of the 
fabric, dissolve with alcohol, and re- 
move by rubbing gently with a clean 
flannel rag or pressing with a hot 
iron through brown paper. 

Oil Stains. — Cover with French 
chalk, pipe clay, or fuller's earth, and 
wet with water to a thin paste. Let this 
dry on the fabric and remove by 
brushing. Repeat if necessary. 

Mud Stains. — Let the mud dry 
thoroughly, and then remove as much 
as possible by brushing. When fully 
dry, cover with a mixture of salt and 
flour and keep in a dry place. 

If the stains are extensive place the 
garment in a large paper flour sack 
with a quantity of salt and flour well 
mixed, shake vigorously, tie up the 
sack, and allow it to hang behind the 
stove for a few days. Afterwards 
shake out the dust and press. 

Or, while the stains are wet, cover 
thickly with cornstarch and brush 
away until the stain has disappeared. 
When dry, make a thick paste of 
cornstarch with warm water, lay over 
the stains, and brush off when dry. 
Repeat if necessary. 

Kust Stains. — ^Apply a solution of 
salts of lemon. 

Ink Stains. — Apply 1 teaspoonful . 
of dilute oxalic acid to 6 ounces of 
water. Or moisten the spots with a 
strong solution of citric acid. Or dip 
the spots in milk and cover with salt. 
If the colors are affected, restore 
them with aqua ammonia and chloro- 
form. 

Tar. — Rub lard over the tar and 
wash , in soapsuds. Or apply oil of 



turpentine, rub with soap, and wash. 
Or soak in olive or sweet oil for 
twenty-four hours. Afterwards wash 
in soapsuds. 

To Dry-elean Lace. — Stretch the 
lace carefully on a thick piece of 
wrapping paper, fastening the edges 
with pins. Sprinkle it quite thickly 
with calcined magnesia. Cover with 
another piece of wrapping paper, and 
place it under a pile of books or other 
heavy weight for three or four days. 
The magnesia can then be shaken off 
and the lace will appear like new. It 
will not only be clean, but the edges 
will be in perfect condition. Calcined 
magnesia is very cheap, and this meth- 
od is well worth trying. 

Or stretch the lace, if not too much 
soiled, on a piece of cloth, pin all the 
points, and work over it with the soft 
part of a loaf of fine bread, not too 
dry, and afterwards shake out the 
crumbs. 

Or use bread crumbs, rubbing them 
over the lace with a soft cloth, con- 
stantly using fresh crumbs, and chang- 
ing the cloth as it becomes soiled. 

Or dust a mixture . of flour and 
magnesia into the fiber of the lace, 
and rub it with a soft cloth. After- 
wards put the lace under pressure for 
a few hours. 

To Clean Gold and Silver Lace. — 
Stretch the lace and tack it down 
on a piece of woolen cloth, following 
the outline of the pattern carefully 
with basting thread. Brush it thor- 
oughly free from dust. Sprinkle over 
it a mixture of dry crumbs or stale 
bread, and powdered laundry blue. 
Rub gently with a piece of flannel un- 
tU clean. 

Or use burnt aliun, pulverized to a 
fine powder, and sifted through cheese 
cloth. Apply with a fine, soft brush. 

Or sponge with alcohol. After- 
wards polish with a piece of red vel- 
vet. 

TO DEY-CIEAN MEN'S 6AEMENTS 

To Clean Men's Clothes. — Hang the 
garments on a line, beat them with 
a carriage whip or piece of rubber 



174 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



hose, and brush them thoroughly with 
a stiff brush. To remove spots, place 
several thicknesses of soft cloth, like 
an old towel, under the spot, moisten 
it with water, and scour with any 
good cleanser, or moisten the spot 
thoroughly with a liquid cleanser and 
rub it hard. Use for this purpose 
a loof, a stiff, fibrous sponge, cost- 
ing about ten cents. This is rough 
enough to scrub with vigor if the 
goods will stand it, or it can be used 
more gently on delicate goods. It 
leaves no lint as cloth does, but is 
stiffer than a sponge and can be easily 
washed and dried after being used. 
Or use one or more small scrubbing 
brushes of varying degrees of stiff- 
ness. 

To Remove Spots. — First hold the 
garment up to the light to see if 
there is any surface dirt; if there is, 
scrape off with a sharp knife what 
can be removed (taking care not to 
injure the weave of the garment) be- 
fore wetting the spot in water, cleans- 
ing fluid, or any sort of chemical. 
Next apply the cleanser and rub well, 
so that the dirt when dissolved may 
be forced through into the pad be- 
neath. Rub with a piece of woolen 




"Spread the Garment RiglU Side Up." 

cloth folded into a tight pad. Use 
plenty of " elbow grease." The secret 
of success lies in hard rubbing. 

To Press Men's Clothes. — Spread 
the garment right side up on an iron- 



ing board, lay over it a cotton cloth 
wrvmg out of warm water containing 
about 1 tablespoonful of aqua am- 
monia to 3 pints of water, and iron 
the wet cloth until both the cloth and 
the garment are perfectly dry. This 
prevents the garment from having a 
shiny appearance. 

Black Dye for Kenovatlng:. — Put 8 
ounces of logwood chips in a porce- 
lain kettle, cover with 2 quarts of soft 
water, and let stand over night. Boil 
30 minutes, strain through cheese 
cloth, and add 6 grains of prusslate 
of potash and 12 grains of bichromate 
of potash previously dissolved in as 
little boiling water as possible. Pour 
this mixture into a black glass bottle, 
cork tightly, and store in a dark 
place. This is a good black dye. To 
apply, first sponge or otherwise 
cleanse the garments, stretch them 
out smooth, and go over them with 
this dye by means of a soft brush. 
Let dry thoroughly before pressing. 

To Clean a Mackintosh. — To clean 
a mackintosh, scrub both sides with 
soap and water, and afterwards rinse 
it in clear water until the soap is re- 
moved. Hang up to dry without 
wringing. Care must be taken not to 
sponge a mackintosh with alcohol, 
chloroform, benzine, gasoline, turpen- 
tine, or any of the chemicals which 
are used in sponging other fabrics, as 
they have the property of dissolving 
rubber and will injure the texture 
of many waterproof garments. Am- 
monia may be applied freely. 

To Renovate Woolen Goods. — 
After woolen dress goods have been 
sponged or washed, to restore the 
original gloss rub the cloth with a 
brush dipped in a thin solution of 
gum arabic, cover with a dry cotton 
cloth, and dry under a weight. This 
method is useful to remove the spot 
caused by sponging out stains. To 
raise the nap on a rough woolen gar- 
ment, wet it, lay it on a smooth sur- 
face, and roughen it gently with a 
common prickly thistle, or what is 
known as a teasel brush. Afterwards 
brush with a stiff clothes brush the 
way of the nap. 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



175 



To Clean Hen's Woolen Clothes. — 
Boil for half an hour 2 ounces of soap 
bark in 1 quart of water, and let 
stand all night on the dregs. Strain 
through cheese cloth, and use alone 
or combined with an equal amount of 
gasoline. , 

Or use 1 part of oxgall to 16 
parts of water. Or use 1 tablespoon- 
fjil of oxgall and 1 teaspoonful of 
cooking soda to a quart of water. Or 
mix 6 oimces of soap jelly or good 
soft soap with 4 ounces of honey, the 
white of 1 egg, and 1 tablespoonful 
of brandy or alcohol. Or mix 1 ounce 
of sulphuric ether, 1 ounce of aqua 
ammonia, and 6 ounces of water. 

The most convenient way to clean 
men's garments is to remove the cover 
from an ironing board, or use some 
other smooth, clean, narrow board or 
plank, arranged to admit of laying 
the coat smoothly over it, or Insert 
the board into the trousers legs. A 
smooth, hard, narrow board is also 
desirable for coat sleeves. Arrange 
the garment on this board and with 
a stiff brush apply any of the cleans- 
ers you prefer. A bristle nailbrush 
or horsehair brush, such as is used in 
the stable for smoothing the* coats of 
horses, is a most useful implement for 
this purpose. Rub with, rather than 
against, the nap of the cloth, wetting 
the brush frequently. 

Scrub especially spots of grease and, 
if much soiled by perspiration, the 
coUar and cuffs. When the grease 
and dirt are thoroughly loosened, 
sponge with clear water until quite 
clean. Trousers and waistcoats may 
be rinsed by immersing in water and 
sousing up and down, but it is better 
not to immerse coats and jackets, as it 
is difBcult, on account of the padded 
linings, to press them into shape. 

To Renovate Men's Clothes. — Boil 
8 ounces of logwood chips in 2 gal- 
lons of water down to 1 gallon. Strain 
and add 3 ounces of gum arable, dis- 
solved in a little hot water. Bottle 
for ffuture use. 

After dark, solid-colored garments, 
as blacks, blues, or browns, have been 
scrubbed and sponged, dilute this mix- 



ture to the shade of the garment, and 
go over it lightly with a sponge. Do 
not expose to direct sunshine or the 
heat of a stove while drying. 

Or moisten a soft brush with olive 
oil and carefully go over the gar- 
ment. 

To Press Men's Clothes. — After 
sponging the garments, stretch them 
to their proper shape, lay them right 
side up over the ironing board, and 
press through linen or cotton cloth 
previously wrung out of clear cold 
water. A tablespoonful each of ox- 
gall and salt added to every gallon 
of water will tend to brighten the 
colors. Press with a hot iron until 
the garment is dry. 

Care must be taken that all the 
liquid preparations used for cleaning 
woolen goods be kept at the same 
temperature, which should be about 
as warm as the hands wiU bear com- 
fortably. 

After the garments have been 
pressed, brush with the nap while the 
steam is still rising from the cloth, 
and hang on suitable clothes hangers 
or over chairs to dry. Do not wear 
them for twenty-four hours or more 
after pressing, or until they are thor- 
oughly dry. 

TO DBY-CLEAir WOMEN'S GABMENTS 

To Clean Woolen Dresses. — The 
most satisfactory method of cleaning 
waists or skirts of wool, silk, velvet, 
or anything except cotton goods, is 
to soak and wash them in gasoline. 
For this purpose two or three large 
earthen jars wUl be found very use- 
ful. It pays to buy the best gasoline, 
five gallons at a time, and use it 
plentifully, as the expense is much 
less than would be the charge of a 
professional cleaner, or the cost of a 
new garment. 

First, dust the garments and rub 
soap on soiled or greasy spots. Noth- 
ing need be removed from them ex- 
cept rubber dress shields. 

Next, put large pieces, one at a 
time, in an earthen jar and cover with 
gasoline. Throw a wet cloth over the 



176 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



jar, and press the lid down tightly. 
Soak for an hour or more, then rub 
the article well, sousing it up and 
down, and transfer it to a second jar 
containing an equal amount of fresh 
gasoline. Rinse in this, squeeze out 
the gasoline, and hang up to dry. A 
third jar may be used if desired. 

Articles washed in this way wiU re- 
quire to be hung out and aired for 
two or three days, when the odor will 
entirely leave them. They should not 
be pressed until they are thoroughly 
dry and all the gasoline has evapo- 
rated. The gasoline can be poured 
back into the cans through cheese 
cloth and used again, as the dirt set- 
tles to the bottom. This operation 
must be carried on out of doors, as 
much of the gasoline will evaporate. 
If done in the house the odor would 
be very unpleasant, and, besides, the 
vapor is explosive and might cause 
accident. A small bristle brush dipped 
in the gasoline will be found useful 
for removing grease spots, scrubbing 
collars, and the like. If a small quan- 
tity of gasoline be put in a tin can 
and then surrounded by a vessel of 
boiling water (but not on the stove), 
it will do the work quickly and more 
thoroughly. 

Crape, Monrning, and Other Black 
Goods. — Black dress goods may be 
washed by observing the same caution 
as for other colored fabrics, whether 
cotton, linen, wool, or silk. To re- 
move stains before laundering, apply 
a solution of 1 part of alcohol and 
2 parts of water with a soft cloth, 
sponge, or soft bristle brush. 

To remove paint, apply spirits of 
turpentine; for grease, apply benzine 
or gasoline; for mud stains, rub the 
spot with a piece of raw potato. 

To Remove Gloss. — Sponge with a 
saturated solution of borax and water. 
Afterwards sponge with clear water. 

Or boil half a handful of flg leaves 
in a quart of water down to a pint. 
Strain and apply the clear liquor. 

Crape lace. — Dissolve a square 
inch of sheet glue in a pint of boiling 
water, add a pint of skim milk, and 
dip the lace in this while boiling hot. 



When cool enough to handle, remove, 
stretch, and clap the lace between the 
hands. Pin it to a linen cloth and 
stretch the cloth tent fashion to dry 
in the shade. 

White Spots. — If white spots or 
light-colored stains appear on black 
garments, apply India ink, marking 
ink, or common ink with a camel's- 
hair brush. Put a piece of blotting 
paper underneath the stain to absorb 
the surplus ink. 

To Revive Taded Colors. — In 3 
quarts of boiling water stir J pound 
of green vitriol, 1 pound of logwood 
chips, and J pound of bruised galls. 
BoU gently for 3 hours and strain 
through cheese cloth. 

Or mix oxgall, 4 ounces; logwood, 
i ounce; green vitriol, J ounce; iron 
filings, i ounce; sumac, J ounce, and 
vinegar, 1 quart. 

Or make a simple solution of log- 
wood, boiling 2 ounces of logwood in 
1 gallon of water down to 1 quart. 

To apply any of the above, dilute 
with sufficient hot water to cover the 
articles, and boil for half an hour. 
If the infusion of logwood is used 
alone, remove the articles, add an 
ounce of sulphate of iron, a;nd boil 
for half an hour. Hang them up 
without wringing in a shady place 
untU they cease to drip. Then rinse 
them in cold water, let them dry, and 
rub gently with a brush moistened 
with a little olive oil. 

To Clean and Scour Woolen Goods. 
— Remove all dirt and dust by shak- 
ing and brushing the articles. Re- 
move grease spots with turpentine, 
benzine, or gasoline. Make a strong 
suds of hard white or curd soap with 
water, and to each gallon add a table- 
spoonful of oxgall. Apply vigorous- 
ly with a fairly stiff nailbrush. Rinse 
by sponging with warm water con- 
taining salt, and dry by rubbing with 
a piece of clean flannel. 

Or, for garments which will not lose 
their shape, rinse in clear cold water 
and hang up to dry. 

Sponging with stale lager beer will 
give some stiffness and gloss to the 
surface. 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



177 



Or go over the surface with a brush 
slightly moistened with olive oil. 

To Dry-clean Woolen Cloth. — Re- 
move all spots and stains, and cover 
the garment with clean, damp sand, 
with which may be mixed a quantity 
of French chalk. Rub over the sur- 
face of the sand with the hands to 
work it into the texture of the fabric, 
and allow the garment to dry. Af- 
terwards brush off the sand. 

To Clean Scarlet Cloth. — Wash in 
bran water, and rinse in clear water 
containing a tablespoonful of solution 
of tin to each gallon. 

Or add a small quantity of scarlet 
dye to the last rinsing water. 

To Clean Light-colored Worsteds. 
— For delicate light-brown or buff 
colors apply pipe clay mixed with 
water to the consistency of milk. 
Cover the surface with this by means 
of a, sponge or brush. Brush off 
when dry. 

CLEANING AND CASE OF GLOVES 

To Clean Gloves. — For cleaning 
gloves, gasoline, benzine, naphtha, and 
soap used with either milk or water, 
fuller's earth, with or without pow- 




Wash Them in Gasoline." 



dered alum, cream of tartar, pipe 
clay, French chalk, bread crumbs, and 
corn meal are all recommended; for 



fruit and acid stains, ammonia; for 
ink stains, oxalic acid; and various 
compounds of these substances. 

Gasoline. — Draw the gloves on tcJ 
the hands and wash them in gasoline 
in the same fashion as the hands' are 
washed in water. Wipe off surplus 
gasoline with a piece of flannel, and 
allow the gloves to pai-tially dry on 
the hands. Afterwards hang on a 
line to dry in the sun. The soiled 
parts of the gloves may be rubbed' 
with any good white hard soap dur- 
ing this process. But they should 
not afterwards be washed In soap^ 
suds, as it shrinks and wrinkles them. 
For light glac6 kid gloves, draw the 
gloves on to the hands and with a 
flannel cloth apply a paste composed 
of flour and gasoline. Rub with a 
clean, dry cloth until quite dry. 

Turpentine. — Before the discovery 
of gasoline, gloves were cleaned by 
washing in spirits of turpentine in 
the same way as they are now washed 
in gasoline. Turpentine is to be pre- 
ferred when the gloves are stained 
with paint or resinous substances. 

Benzine. — Place the gloves in a 
large fruit jar full of benzine, screw 
on the lid and let them soak for twen- 
ty minutes or more, shaking the jar 
vigorously at intervals. Take them 
out and examine for dirt spots, which 
may be removed by rubbing with ben- 
zine on a flannel rag. Afterwards 
hang them up to dry in the open air. 
To remove the odor of benzine, pro- 
fessional cleaners dry articles cleaned 
in this manner in a drying room 
at a temperature of about 300°- 
But this odor will pass off after a 
time. 

Or draw the gloves on the hands, dip 
a flannel rag in benzine, and allow 
it to become nearly dry. While 
slightly damp, moisten the gloves with 
this by rubbing the hands with it as 
if with a towel. 

Or take part of a loaf of bread 
slightly moist, or dry bread crumbs, 
and rub lightly over the gloves until 
they are clean. Change the crumbs 
as they become soiled. Repeat if 
necessary. • 



178 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Milk for Kid Gloves. — ^Draw the 
gloves on the hands, dip a cloth in 
skim milk, and wipe them on the 
cloth as if on a towel. Let them dry 
on the hands. 

Or draw a glove on one hand and 
with the other hand dip a piece of 
flannel in new milk, rub on castile 
soap or any good hard white soap, 
and rub the soiled glove lightly. 

Or lay the glove on a folded towel, 
dip a flannel cloth in milk, rub on 
castile soap or other white soap, and 
rub the glove lightly, working from 
the back or wrist toward the fingers. 

To Dry-clean Crloves. — Delicate 
white kid or subde gloves may be dry- 
cleaned with cream of tartar, mag- 
nesia, fuller's earth, alum, pipe clay, 
corn meal, or various compounds of 
these. 

■ A simple method is to draw the 
gloves on the hands and wash them 
thoroughly in fine corn meal. 

Or place the glove in a paper bag 
or fruit jar, iill them with a mixture 
of magnesia and cream of tartar, cov- 
er them with it, shake the bag, and 
let it stand over night. Rub off this 
mixture with a flannel cloth inside 
and out, draw the gloves on the hands, 
and apply a mixture of powdered 
alum and fuller's earth with a small, 
soft brush, sponge, nailbrush, or 
toothbrush. 

Or brush with fuller's earth with- 
out powdered alum, and dust it off. 

If the gloves are not entirely clean, 
draw them on the hands and apply 
fine bran or pipe clay, or a mixture of 
both. None of these substances wUl 
injure the gloves, and if one is not 
at hand use another. Bread crumbs 
are also useful, especially when the 
gloves are much soiled. Change the 
crumbs as they become dirty. 

To Glean Wash-leather Gloves. — 
Wash-leather gloves may be cleaned 
with soap and water. Draw them on 
the hands and with a shaving brush 
apply a lather of fine shaving or toilet 
soap. Wipe them on a clean towel 
and let them dry on the hands. 

Or, if much soiled with perspira- 
tion, apply a mixture of magnesia and 



cream of tartar, filling and covering 
the gloves and letting them stand over 
night. Rub oflf with a flannel cloth, 
draw the gloves on the hands, and 
wash them in lukewarm suds made 
with fine white soap, rinse in warm 
water, and let them remain on the 
hands until quite dry. 

To Color Wash-leather Gloves. — 
While the gloves are still damp they 
may be colored yellow by rubbing 
with yellow ocher, or white by rub- 
bing with pipe clay, or any desired 
intermediate shade by mixing the 
two. Mix into a paste with stale 
beer or vinegar. 

To Renovate Kid Gloves. — ^White 
kid gloves that are stained beyond 
cleaning may be dyed to a tan shade 
by applying two or three coats of 
saffron and water, drying them be- 
tween the coatings. Apply to the 
surface with a soft brush, wetting as 
little as possible. Black kid or suMe 
gloves when defaced may be improved 
by painting the worn spots with a 
mixture of black ink and olive oU. 
Apply it with a camel's-hair brush or 
feather, touch the spots lightly, and 
observe the effect by allowing the 
glove to dry before adding more 
color. Repeat if necessary. 

Glove Cleaners. — Scrape one pound 
of castUe or other hard white soap 
into a powder, place in a fruit jar, 
and add alcohol sufficient to make a 
soap jelly. Stir in a teaspoonful of 
ether or chloroform and keep the cov- 
er of the jar glued tight. 

Or grate IJ pounds of castile soap 
in IS ounces of water and dissolve 
with gentle heat. Melt 3 oimces of 
soap in an equal bulk of water, add 
2 ounces of Javelle water and 1 tea- 
spoonful of ammonia. This will form 
a thick paste or jell. Apply by put- 
ting the gloves on and using a flannel 
cloth. Dry the gloves on the hands. 

To Remove Stains. — Put a few 
tablespoonf uls of aqua ammonia in a 
large two-quart fruit jar, or other 
wide-mouthed bottle or can or similar 
receptacle, taking care not to wet the 
mouth or sides of the vessel. Sus- 
pend the gloves ia this vessel above 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



179 



the ammonia, where they will be 
penetrated by its fumes, and cover 
tightly. Do not allow the gloves to 
touch the ammonia water. This proc- 
ess will not injure the most delicate 
colors. 

To Bentove Ink Stains. — First dip 
the stained part in melted tallow to 
absorb the ink. Afterwards cover 
with pipe clay. 

Or insert a roll of brown paper in- 
side the glove and put another piece 
over it; then press gently with a 
warm iron. Repeat if necessary. 

Or, if the stain, is not removed, 
make a solution of 1 part of oxalic 
acid to 10 parts of water, and gently 
apply it to the spot with the tip_ of 
the finger, using as little as possible. 
Follow with a drop of aqua am- 
monia. 

Or wet the spot and cover with 
common soda to neutralize the effect 
of the acid. 

To Clean Kid Gloves. — Shave 3 
ounces of white soap and dissolve In 
a pint of milk with gentle heat. Add 
the white of 1 egg and beat up the 
whole with an egg beater. Add a tea- 
spoonful of sulphuric ether, draw on 
the gloves, and apply the paste with 
a small bit of sponge until clean. It 
is best to keep the gloves on until 
they are dry. This method not only 
cleans but softens and revives the 
leather. 

Or draw the gloves on the hand and 
go over them with a cloth dipped in 
skim milk. Wear them until quite dry. 

Or moisten a small sponge or piece 
of cloth in skim milk, rub it on a 
cake of Castile or other hard white 
soap, and with this sponge the gloves 
all over until they are clean. Wear 
them until dry. 

Or shave iine 3 ounces of castile 
or other hard white soap in 3 ounces 
of water, and dissolve with gentle 
heat. Remove from the fire, and when 
cold stir in 3 ounces of Javelle water 
and 1 teaspoonful of aqua ammonia. 
Apply with a flannel cloth. 

Or put the gloves in a large-stop- 
pered bottle about half filled with 
benzine and let stand several hours. 



shaking frequently. Remove the gloves, 
sponge any spots with benzine or 
ether, and hang up to dry. 

Or draw the gloves on to the hands 
and wash in benzine or turpentine. 
Dry on a soft muslin cloth or towel 
and hang up in a draught until the 
odor disappears. 

To Polish Kid Gloves. — Apply tal- 
cum or other good toilet powder or 
French chalk with a piece of soft 
muslin. 

To Clean Chamois.-; — To clean gloves 
and other articles of chamois skin, 
dissolve 3 tablespoonfuls of aqua am- 
monia in 1 quart of warm water. 
Soak the articles in this for an hour 
or more. Stir occasionally with a 
wooden spoon. Press out as much of 
the dirt as possible. Pour all into a 
basin of warm water, wash with the 
hands, rinse in clear soft water, dry 
in the shade, and rub between the 
hands until soft. 

TO CLEAIT FEATHEBS, 7UBS, AND 
STBAW 

To Clean Feathers. — Prepare suds 
by shaving and boiling half a bar of 
hard white or naphtha soap in a 
saucepan with sufficient water. Dilute 
with warm soft water. Immerse the 
plume in this and allow it to soak for 
ten or fifteen minutes, occasionally 
drawing it rather loosely through the 
hands to strip out the dirt with the 
suds. Rinse in water of the same 
temperature. If not yet clean, lay 
the feather on a smooth surface and 
with a soft toothbrush rub gently 
with soap and water, working out- 
wardly from the stem. Rinse in clear 
warm water and afterwards, if a white 
feather, in bluing water. Draw through 
the palm of the hand to squeeze out 
the water, but without twisting. Pin 
or stitch the stem to a cloth and hang 
up to dry with the thick end of the 
stem up and the plumage hanging 
down. Shake occasionally while dry- 
ing it, or, if time will permit, shake 
the feathers near tiie stove until dry. 

Or dry out of doors in' a gentle 
breeze. But care must be taken that 



180 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the wind does not whip the feather 
and breals the stem. 

To Renovate Feathers. — Blacic 
feathers after having been washed 
may be restored to their original lus- 
ter as follows: dissolve 1 ounce of 
sulphate of iron in 1 quart of hot 
water. Immerse the feathers in this 
and let tliem steep until the liquid is 
cold. Hang up in a shady place to 
dry. Make a solution of logwood 
and gaUnuts by boiling. J ounce of 
each in a. copper vessel with 1 quart 
of water down to 1 pint. Remove 
from the fire, while hot, immerse the 
feathers, and allow them to remain 
until cool. Rinse in clear water and 
dry. Lay them on a smooth surface 
and rub from the stem outwardly with 
a piece of flannel slightly moistened 
in olive oil. 

Grebe Feathers and Other Skins. — 
These may be washed in the same 
manner as ostrich plumes by first re- 
moving the lining. They must be 
handled with great care to prevent 
injury by tearing. 

To Curl Feathers. — Feathers which 
have temporarily lost their curl from 
exposure to rain or fog may be im- 
proved by holding them over a fire 
and shaking occasionally until the 
matted fibers are loosened, when the 
curl will be restored. 

When the curl has been entirely 
taken out by washing or soaldng, it 
will be necessary to curl the fronds 
with the blunt edge of a knife or a 
piece of ivory. The curl will be more 
durable if the feather is held near 
the surface of a hot flatiron while 
curling. The feather should be bone 
dry. Do not take more than two or 
three fronds at a time, and draw them 
between the thumb and the blunt 
edge of a silver knife or ivory paper 
cutter. Begin at the point of the 
feather, and work along the stem on 
both sides. After a little practice 
feathers may be curled to look as 
good as new. 

Swan's-down. — To clean swan's- 
down, first tack the strips on a piece 
of muslin and wash same as ostrich 
plumes. When partially dry, remove 



the muslin and rub the feather care- 
fully between the fingers to make it 
pliant. 

To Prepare ftuills for Writing. — 
Cut thin, broad layers of cork wide 
enough to float the quills without 
their tipping over. Bore holes through 
these the right size to thrust the nibs 
through them so that they will be 
immersed when the corks float upon 
the water. Place the corks contain- 
ing the quills in a deep kettle or other 
receptacle so that the cover can be 
put on without interfering with the 
quills, and so that the nibs will be 
immersed in water. Boil them three 
or four hours. Dry for twenty-four 
hours, remove the pith, polish with 
flannel, and dry in a warm oven. This 
method hardens the quills like bone 
without making them brittle, and also 
renders them transparent. 

To Clean Fur. — The nature of fur 
is similar to that of wool, as both are 
animal fibers. Hence anything that 
will injure wool should not be used 
on fur of any description. Stains 
of grease or paint may be removed 
from fur hats or other articles by 
means of turpentine. Afterwards 
sponge with alcohol and dry. 

Or other furs may be cleaned by 
rubbing damp corn meal through them 
and allowing it to dry. Afterwards 
remove by shaking and brushing. The 
coarse furs, as bear, bufi^alo, etc., may 
be scrubbed with warm suds made of 
pure white soap and pure water, and 
their appearance will be very much 
improved by combing with a coarse 
comb. To improve the luster of furs, 
heat corn meal in an iron skillet to a 
rich brown but without burning. While 
still hot sprinkle it over the fur and 
rub with a flannel cloth. Afterwards 
remove by shaking and brushing. 

To Clean Straw Hats. — ^The most 
delicate straw goods, as Milan, Leg- 
horn, and other straws, can be thor- 
oughly cleaned by mixing the juice 
of a lemon with a tablespoonfiil of 
powdered sulphur to form a thick 
paste. Apply this to the hat with a 
nailbrush or toothbrush, first remov- 
ing the band, and rub the paste thor- 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



181 



oughly into the straw. Afterwards 
rinse by dashing water upon it from 
a glass, but without soaking; Shape 
the hat wliile still damp with a warm 
iron, pressing through a wet cloth 
until dry. 

Or press into shape and dry out of 
doors in the sun. 

Panama Eats. — Apply corn meal, 
slightly damp, with a faii-ly stiff nail- 
brush, changing the meal as it be- 
comes soiled. Brush off the excess 
of meal while still damp, dry the hat 
out of doors in the sun, and after- 
wards brush thoroughly. 

Or with a piece of flannel rub full- 
er's earth into the hat, cover quite 
thickly with it, and lay the hat away 
covered with a large piece of paper 
for four or five days. Remove the 
powder by brushing. 

Or apply peroxide of hydrogen with 
a flannel cloth. Repeat if necessary. 

To Size Straw Eats. — Beat up the 
white of an egg and apply to the hat 
after cleaning with a small camel's- 
hair brush or a sponge. 

BLEACEIITG VEGETABLE AITS ANI- 
MAL FIBEBS 

Bleaching. — Bleaching is the proc- 
ess of treating materials in such a 
way as to whiten them. Bleaching is 
commonly applied to textile goods, as 
linen, cotton, wool, and silk; also to 
paper, pulp, straw, ivory, wax, and 
animal and vegetable oils. The oper- 
ation of bleaching textile fabrics con- 
sists of two parts: first, removing 
dirt and other impurities and all for- 
eign substances, and afterwards alter- 
ing the natural coloring matter of the 
fabric by chemicals having specific 
bleaching properties. The preliminary 
operation of cleansing fabrics for 
bleaching is much the same as or- 
dinary washing in the domestic laun- 
dry. It depends upon the action of 
alkaline lyes and certain acids to dis- 
solve the resinous and fatty sub- 
stances and other impurities that may 
either be natural or may be intro- 
duced into the fabrics in the process 
of manufacture. 



The principal actual bleaching 
agents now employed are chlorine gas, 
usually combined with lime as chlor- 
ide of lime or bleaching powder; and 
sulphurous acid, usually as fumes of 
burning sulphur. Of these the chlor- 
ine compounds are the more power- 
ful. Like free alkali, however, they 
tend, after decomposing the coloring 
matter, to attack the fibers of the fab- 
ric itself and to injure them. Hence 
it is customary at the proper time to 
treat fabrics bleached by this agent 
with such substances as hyposulphite 
of soda to neutralize the excess of 
chlorine and prevent its further ac- 
tion. 

The various vegetable fibers, as cot- 
ton, flax, and hemp, are composed of 
cellulose, a substance that withstands 
to a great degree the action both of 
the acids and alkalies used in prelim- 
inary cleansing and the chlorine used 
as a bleaching agent. Animal fibers, 
on the other hand, as silk, wool, feath- 
ers, and the like, contain no cellulose 
and are readily destroyed by these 
agents. Hence they are commonly 
bleached by the action of sulphurous- 
acid gas. Various other chemicals, 
have been recommended for bleach- 
ing, but none of them are commonly 
employed. 

Previous to the application of mod- 
ern chemistry (during the latter part 
of the eighteenth century), bleaching 
was done without the use of chlorine 
or sulphurous acid, by soaking and 
washing the articles alternately in al- 
kaline and acid liquids, exposing them 
on the grass to the action of air, light, 
and moisture, and sprinkling them 
with water several times a day. 

The exact nature of the change 
which takes place in bleaching is not 
known, but it is supposed to be 
brought about by the action of ozone, 
or oxygen, in its active form. This 
is set free during the process of 
bleaching with chlorine, and is also 
known to be present in small quan- 
tities in the atmosphere. The ancient 
method of first soaking and washing 
articles in lye and acids and after- 
wards exposing them to the action of 



182 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the elements, is still practiced in many 
localities, but the modern methods of 
bleaching by chlorides and sulphurous 
acid can be practiced successfully in 
any household. 

Bleaching Linen. — The fibers of 
raw or unbleached linen contain a 
large amount of resinous and other 
impurities, so that the operation of 
bleaching reduces their original weight 
by about two thirds. These foreign 
substances protect the fiber from be- 
ing injured by the alkali and acids 
which are used in bleaching. Hence 
the treatment recommended for un- 
bleached linen is not suitable for the 
finer qualities of bleached fabrics, but 
must be modified according to the 
quality and condition of the goods. 

The Dutch at one time had a mo- 
nopoly in certain grades of fine linens, 
hence known as " hollands," on ac- 
count of the superiority of their 
bleaching process. This consisted in 
treating the fabric by turns with al- 
kaline and acid liquids, and exposing 
it on lawns or bleaching greens from 
March until September. Hence the 
origin of the word " lawn " for cer- 
tain fine grades of linen. The Dutch 
process consisted of four different 
operations, frequently repeated: 

(1) Steeping in alkaline lye forty- 
eight hours, or in pure water for sev- 
eral days. 

(2) Boiling in alkaline lye, also 
called " bucking " or " hawking." 

(3) Exposing on the grass for 
weeks at a time and sprinkling fre- 
quently with water. 

(4) Souring with buttermilk. 
After each operation the cloth was 

washed in soapsuds and rinsed with 
water. This method is still employed 
and is suitable for either raw linen 
or cotton. It may be shortened by 
the employment of dilute sulphuric 
acid in place of buttermilk, and also 
by the use, under proper conditions, 
of chlorine in the form of chloride of 
lime or bleaching powder. 

Soaking in water or lye, washing, 
boiling in lye, and exposure on the 
grass, are still required, and the series 
of operations must be often repeated. 



To Bleach Baw Linen and Cotton 
Cloth. — Dissolve 1 pound of chloride 
of lime in a small quantity of cold 
water by rubbing with a stick until 
aU lumps have been dissolved. Add 
sufficient cold water to make 3 gal- 
lons, stirring vigorously. Preserve 
this liquid in an earthen jar as a 
bleaching fluid. 

Prepare a. lye by dissolving i pint 
of caustic potash or caustic soda in 
3 gallons of water. 

(1) Boil the fabric in this lye for 
three or four hours. 

(2) Wash thoroughly in soapsuds. 

(3) Rinse in pure water. 

(4) Steep three or four hours in 3 
gallons of cold water containing 1 
quart of bleaching fluid. 

(5) Steep for one hour in 3 gallons 
of water containing 3 wineglassfuls of 
sulphuric acid. 

(6) Wash in soapsuds. 

(7) Rinse in pure water. 

(8) Expose on a green lawn and 
sprinkle frequently with clear water. 

This will illustrate the method of 
domestic bleaching. This series of 
operations must be carried on contin- 
uously, and may be repeated weekly 
on the regular wash day when suds 
are at hand in which to wash out the 
lye and bleaching fluid. The articles 
may be exposed during the week and 
the operations repeated on the follow- 
ing or subsequent wash days until the 
bleaching has been completed. 

By reducing the strength of the lye 
one half the same series of operations 
may be carried on, a second or a third 
time if necessary, without " crofting," 
or exposure on a lawn. The latter 
method is, however, to be preferred. 
After the final operation rinse the ar- 
ticles in 3 gallons of water containing 
about 2 ounces of hyposulphite of 
soda and afterwards rinse in bluing 
water. 

Various methods of Bleaching ordi- 
narily recommended and practiced in 
modification of these processes are of 
the nature of short cuts to save labon 
Some of these, by employing strong 
bleaching agents without sufficient 
care, may tend to weaken the fabrics. 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



183 



and others are not strong enough to 
do the work well. The above is a 
standard that will serve to illustrate 
the principles involved. 

To Bleach Brown Sheeting. — This 
is for an ordinary partly bleached 
cotton fabriCi/ First wash with other 
white goods, and afterwards soak over 
night in strong soapsuds. Dissolve 2 
pounds of chloride of lime in a wash 
boiler containing 2J pails of boiling 
water, or about J pound of chloride 
of lime to the gallon. Stir vigorously, 
and when cold pour through cheese 
cloth into a tub. Immerse the goods 
in this, stirring with a clothes stick 
for half an hour. Rinse thoroughly 
with cold water containing 1 ounce 
of hyposulphite of soda to the gal- 
lon. Finally rinse in bluing water 
and hang up to dry. Repeat if neces- 
sary. This wUl take mildew out of 
cotton or duck cloth, and restore the 
color of cotton goods that have been 
stored and yellowed. 

These methods are, of course, not 
suitable for more delicate cotton fab- 
rics. 

Bleaching with Sal Soda. — Wash- 
ing soda tends to bleach garments, 
but also injures them unless it is thor- 
oughly removed by rinsing. Put no 
more than one teaspoonful in a boil- 
erful of clothes. 

Bleaching by Turpentine. — Dis- 
solve 1 teaspoonful of oil of turpen- 
tine and 3 teaspoonfuls of alcohol in 
the last rising water. 

Wool. — The process of bleaching 
raw wool requires five stages: 

(1) It is washed on the sheep to 
remove sweat and dirt. Among other 
impurities found in sheep's wool is a 
substance called " suint," containing 
potash, which may be preserved and 
utilized. 

(3) The wool is scoured by an am- 
moniacal lye consisting of stale urine 
dissolved in water, or by immersing 
in soapsuds or a weak alkaline lye at 
a temperature of about 130°. This 
removes a kind of lime soap and other 
impurities in it. These are the pre- 
liminary processes of cleansing, after 
which the wool is spun into yarn and 



prepared for bleaching either in the 
yarn or cloth. 

(3) Steeping in a, weak lukewarm 
solution of carbonate of soda and 
soapsuds. 

(4) Washing with lulcewarm soap- 
suds. 

(5) Exposing to the fumes of sul- 
phurous acid. 

The last three operations are re- 
peated if necessary. Afterwards the 
yarn or cloth is rinsed in bluing 
water. Operations 1 and 3 may be 
performed on the farm to improve 
the appearance of wool for the mar- 
ket. Operations 3, 4, and 5 may be 
performed in the house to bleach 
yarn or woolen fabrics. 

Chlorine in any form, as chloride of 
lime or bleaching powders, must not 
be used for woolen articles. 

To Bleach Woolen Goods with Sul- 
phur. — An inverted barrel, cask, box, 
or anything that is large enough and 
tight enough to hold the fumes of 
sulphur may be employed. Place this 
out of doors on a still day, or in an 
outhouse, turned upside down and 
supported on three or four bricks, to 
admit a slight draught. Suspend the 
articles inside by means of hooks, or 
by passing cord or wire through gim- 
let holes and tying it about them. 
Afterwards fill the gimlet holes with 
rags or wax. 

Kindle coke or charcoal, or place 
other live coals in an iron pan, sprin- 
kle flowers of sulphur or pulverized 
brimstone on the coals, and set direct- 
ly beneath. If the receptacle used is 
not quite tight, cover closely with a 
wet piece of heavy cloth or old car- 
pet. Care must, of course, be taken 
not to inhale the fumes of sulphur or 
to permit the sulphur to blaze and 
scorch the goods. The articles should 
be first washed in soapsuds, and 
wrung out of weak suds without rins- 
ing. 

For Small Articles. — A paper flour 
sack, to which they may be attached 
by pins or basting threads, is light, 
tight, and convenient for bleaching 
small articles. Put the brimstone in 
a saucer and cover with a tin funnel. 



184 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



so that the fumes will be directed up 
into the bag. Repeat if necessary, 
hang the articles out of doors until 
the odor has passed away, and wash 
as usual. This method is suitable for 
flannels, woolen hose, yarn, and also 
for silk, straw, and straw goods. 

To Bleacli with Oxalic Acid. — Dis- 
solve 1 ounce of oxalic acid in 1 gal- 
lon of boiling water; allow this to 
cool until it will bear the hands. Im- 
merse the articles and let them steep 
for an hour or more, rinse thoroughly, 
and dry. Repeat if necessary. 

To Bleach Plannel. — Dissolve 1 
ounce of powdered anunonia and 1 
ounce of salt in 2 quarts of water. 
Soak the articles in this for an hour 
or more. 

Or dissolve 2 ounces of bisulphite 
of soda in 1 gallon of water acidulat- 
ed slightly with hydrochloric acid. 

To Bleach Silk. — Nearly one half, 
by weight (30 to 40 per cent), of the 
fibers of sUk consists of various gums 
and coloring matter. 

The operation of bleaching consists 
in 

(I) Boiling the silks in soapsuds, 
with the addition of bran, to remove 
these impurities; (3) exposing them 
to sulphurous-acid gas. 

Or boil in soapsuds, rinse, and ex- 
pose to the sun. Or bleach with the 
fumes of sulphur. 

To Bleach Feathers. — ^Make a di- 
lute solution of bicarbonate of potas- 
sium, 1 part to 10 parts of water, 
slightly acidulated with nitric acid, 1 
fluid ounce to the gallon. Immerse 
the feathers for 3 or 4 hours. Af- 
terwards rinse in clear water, slightly 
acidulated with sulphuric acid, 1 fluid 
ounce to the gallon. 

To Bleach Straw Goods. — Sub- 
stances recommended for bleaching 
straw and straw goods, including 
straw hats, are sulphurous acid (i. e., 
fumes of burning sulphur), chlorine 
water (or chloride of lime), citric 
acid, and oxalic acid. Straw goods 
must be prepared for bleaching by 
scrubbing with lukewarm soap and 
water. 

The safest and best method of 



bleaching straw is perhaps by means 
of the fumes of burning sulphur. This 
method is employed by manufacturers 
and milliners to bleach hats and bon- 
nets. All bands and trimmings must 
first be removed. 

Or apply chlorine water with a 
sponge, cloth, or brush. Afterwards 
rinse in clear water containing hypo- 
sulphite of soda. 

Or make a paste of corn meal and 
a solution of oxalic acid in water. 
Spread this on the hat, allow it to 
dry, and remove by brushing. 

Or apply a strong solution of^ ox- 
alic acid and water, and rinse. 

Or immerse in a weak solution of 
chloride of lime — 2 ounces to 1 gal- 
lon of water. Rinse in water con- 
taining hyposulphite of soda. 

Or make a paste of flowers of sul- 
phur. Or pulverize brimstone with 
water. Cover with this, and expose 
to direct sxmshine until dry. Repeat 
if necessary. Remove the sulphur by 
brushing. This is simple and success- 
ful. 

To Bleach Straw Braid. — ^Dissolve 
6 ounces of chloride of lime in a gal- 
lon of water. 

(1) Dip the goods in this for thir- 
ty minutes. 

(2) Dip in clear water acidulated 
with muriatic or siilpburic acid at the 
rate of 1 fluid ounce to the gallon. 

(3) Rinse in clear water containing 
1 ounce of hyposulphite of soda to 
the gallon. 

Or dip in weak soapsuds and ex- 
pose to the fumes of burning sulphur. 

To Prevent White Goods from Fad- 
ing. — If a suitable lawn or grassplot 
is available, spread white garments 
on the grass to dry during the warm 
months of the year. This is more con- 
venient than fastening to a line and 
keeps the garments always bleached. 
Faded articles may be bleached in 
this way by keeping them constantly 
moistened with clear water. 

To Bleach Unbleached Mnslin.— 
Unbleached muslin is more durable 
than that which has already been 
bleached. Hence it pays to buy it 
by the piece and bleach it before mak- 



PREPARATIONS FOR WASH DAY 



185 



ing it up. Place on the stove a boil- 
erful of strong bluing water, or use 
indigo instead of bluing. Unroll the 
cloth, put it in the boiler, and boil 
ten or twenty minutes. Hang it out 
on a clear, sunshiny day to drip; dry 
without wringing. When partially dry 
spread it on the grass to bleach. 

To Whiten Lace. — First wash in 
strong soapsuds, rinse and immerse 
in fresh suds, and expose to the sun. 

Or first wash and iron, stitch on 
cotton with basting thread, and soak 
for twenty minutes in olive oil. Af- 
terwards boil for twenty minutes in 
suds of castile or other hard white 
soap and rinse in warm water. 

To Bleach faded White Goods. — 
All cotton and linen fabrics and gar- 
ments that have been laundered tend 
to become yellow by the action of the 
alkali contained in the soap, which is 
imperfectly removed in rinsing. Gar- 
ments that have been laid away for a 
time, as summer dresses, wUl fre- 
quently come out in the spring much 
yellowed or faded. Put the faded ar- 
ticles in a separate boiler and add i 



pound of cream of tartar. Boil until 
the goods are clear. Wring out of 
bluing water and lay on the grass to 
dry. 

Or soak the garments over night in 
clear cold water, wring out, and soak 
for twenty-four hours in sour milk 
or buttermilk. If much yellowed, 
soak a third night in weak suds con- 
taining a little hard white soap and 
a tablespoonful of kerosene. After- 
wards boil in suds containing a table- 
spoonful of kerosene. Rinse in blu- 
ing water, and hang out to drip dry. 

Or boil the articles for fifteen or 
twenty minutes in strong soapsuds 
containing 1 tablespoonful of essence 
of turpentine and 3 tablespoonfuls 
of aqua ammonia, stirring occasional- 
ly. Care must be taken not to im- 
merse the arms in suds containing 
turpentine. Rinse the articles, using 
a clothes stick, in one or two clear 
waters, and wash and blue in the 
usual way. 

Washing soda should not be used 
for bleaching purposes, as it tends to 
rot the fabric. 



CHAPTER V 

SOAP AND SOAP MAKING 

UTENSILS AND MATERIALS FOR SOAP MAKING — SOFT SOAP- 
HARD SOAP— SODA SOAPS— ROSIN SOAP— SPECIAL SOAPS 



Properties of Soap. — Garments of 
linen and other fabrics become soiled 
principally by the oily exudations of 
the body, as in perspiration and the 
natural oil of the hair, and, in the 
case of table linen, by animal fats, 
etc. The skin itself, of course, retains 
a considerable part of the oily sub- 
stances not absorbed by the clothing. 
These greasy substances by their ad- 
hesive quality attract and hold parti- 
cles of dirt. When soap is dissolved 
in water, the neutral alkali salts be- 
come in part separated into alkali 
which dissolves, and free fatty acid 
which precipitates. This explains why 
the transparency of clear water is 
disturbed by the use of soap even of 
the purest kind. 

The detergent or cleansing proper- 
ties of soap are due to the presence 
of free alkali, either caustic potash 
or soda liberated in the soapsuds. This 
attacks and decomposes the grease 
contained in soiled linen, in perspira- 
tion, and in dishwater, unites with 
the fatty acids, and in turn saponifies 
them. The process is precisely simi- 
lar to that of soap making. The union 
of the alkali set free in soapsuds with 
the grease of garments or dishwater 
produces a soapy substance which is 
readily soluble, and hence is easily 
removed by rinsing. 

Free Alkali. — Since the cleansing 
properties of soap are due to the 
presence of free alkali, it may be 
asked why the alkalies themselves — as 
potash lye or $al soda, cannot be used 



186 



without the trouble of uniting them 
with animal fats by soap making. It 
is true that lye and other strong alka- 
lies have strong detergent properties. 
They attack, however, not only the 
grease, but also the fabrics themselves 
and rot or weaken them, and also ir- 
ritate the skin. Hence the object of 
soap making is to form a compoimd 
which will release a small definite 
quantity of alkali at the moment that 
it is required. 

Soap Test. — Alkali has a strong, bit- 
ing taste. Hence the best test of soap 
is to apply the tongue to it. If it 
bites, the soap contains an excess of 
free alkali and is not suitable for the 
toilet or laundry. If it does not, it 
is good soap and will probably not 
injure the most delicate fabrics. 

Importance of Soap. — Whether or 
not cleanliness is next to godliness, 
historians say that the degree of civ- 
ilization of a nation is indicated by 
the quantity of soap it consumes. The 
kind and quality of soap and. other 
cleansing articles used by a house- 
hold is a good indication of the re- 
finement of the family. There should 
be no economy in the use of soap, but 
since, if very freely used, it becomes 
Quite an important item of expense, 
a considerable saving may be made 
by the use of homemade soap and 
other cleansing compounds. 

The domestic art of soap making 
also has an educational value. Soap 
is a chemical compound and we per- 
form a real chemical experiment every 



SOAP AND SOAP MAKING 



187 



time we wash our hands or wash 
clothing in the laundry. Soap was 
made as early as the second century 
of the Christian era, before the mod- 
ern science of chemistry was inaugu- 
rated, and good soap may be made 
by observing the following instruc- 
tions without troubling oneself to un- 
derstand the chemical principles in- 
volved. On the other hand, it is 
interesting, as a matter of general in- 
formation, to understand the chemis- 
try of soap making. 

There is a group of substances hav- 
ing similar properties, which is known 
in chemistry as alkalies, and another 
group, having very different proper- 
ties, which is known as acids. These 
two kinds of substances have a strong 
attraction or afBnity for each other, 
and when brought together under suit- 
able conditions they unite to form 
another class of substances, the com- 
pounds known as salts. Common salt 
is a good example; it consists of an 
alkali, sodium, and an acid, chlorine. 
Most of the salts are freely soluble 
in water. 

Soaps are alkali salts of fatty acids. 
The alkalies commonly used in mak- 
ing soaps are soda and potash. All 
of the animal fats, and also the ani- 
mal and vegetable oils, contain fatty 
acids. When the proper alkalies are 
brought into contact with animal fats 
or oils, under proper conditions, the 
alkalies attack the globules of fat or 
oil and unite with the fatty acids to 
form alkali salts of fatty acids — ^i. c, 
soap. This process is known as sa- 
ponification. 

To make soap it is customary to 
dissolve an alkali, either potash or 
soda, in water, forming a liquid known 
as lye, to dilute the lye, to then mix 
with it a suitable quantity of fat or 
oil, and to stir until saponification 
takes place. If the mixture is cold, 
the process may require several days 
or even months, depending upon the 
strength and purity of the ingredi- 
ents. But if the mixture is raised to 
212° F. by boiling, the process of 
saponification may take place in a 
few minutes or hours. Hence there 



are two processes of soap making — 
in the cold and by boiling. 

The cold process, generally speak- 
ing, produces what is known as a soft 
soap. This is not true or pure soap, 
but contains, in addition to the actual 
dry alkali salts of the fatty acids — ■ 
i. e., real soap — certain other ingredi- 
ents, as water, glycerin (which is con- 
tained in all natural fats and is lib- 
erated in the process of soap making), 
more or less free alkali, and other 
impurities. In other words, soft soap 
is only partially saponified. The pure 
or hard soap, completing the process 
of saponification, is obtained by boil- 
ing soft soap until the glycerin and 
other impurities are absorbed by the 
hot lye, and by the addition of salt 
to remove the surplus of water. The 
salt, having a stronger afSnity for 
water than the soap has, causes the 
water and the impurities it holds in 
solution to sink into the oil. The 
pure hard soap rises to the surface 
and forms a cake which may be re- 
moved. The lye, containing glycerin 
and other impurities, can then be dis- 
carded. 

A better quality of soap may be 
obtained by melting the product of 
the first boiling a second time, and 
by adding more clean, strong lye and 
clear melted grease or oil, until com- 
plete saponification takes place. 

1TTENSIIS AND MATEBIALS FOB 
SOAP UAEIN6 

Utensils for Soap Making. — A large 
iron soap kettle or a common wash 
boiler is a great convenience for mak- 
ing soap in large quantities. Two or 
three smaller kettles can also be em- 
ployed to advantage. A common meat 
chopper may be used to reduce soap 
to small pieces to make it dissolve 
readily. All of these utensils can, of 
course, be readily cleansed after using. 
A large iron set kettle is a great 
convenience on the farm for soap 
making and numerous other purposes. 
If fire is built so as to heat the kettle 
at the sides rather than in the mid- 
dle, the contents will be much less 



188 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



likely to boil over. A ladle holding 
about a quart and a wooden paddle 
with a long handle for stirring are 
necessary. Also have at hand a glass 




"A Large Iron Set Kettle is Convenient." 

dish or plate on which to cool a few 
drops of the liquid from time to time 
to test it. 

Materials for Soap. — A consider- 
able saving may be made by soap 
making at home, even if the materials 
are purchased. Mutton tallow, beef 
suet, and lard from pork scraps, and 
caustic soda or potash may be em- 
ployed, and these ingredients cost 
very little. But homemade soap may 
be made for next to nothing by using 
kitchen drippings and scraps that 
would otherwise be wasted and by 
leaching lye from wood ashes. 

To Make Potash lye from Ashes. — 
Fit a half barrel or tub with a faucet 
near the bottom and make a filter in- 
side about the mouth of the faucet 
with some bricks or stones covered 
with straw. Fill the tub with hard- 
wood ashes. Ashes from oak wood 
are said to be the strongest, and those 
from the apple tree are said to make 
the whitest soap. When the tub is 
full pour over the ashes boiling water 
until it begins to run from the faucet. 
Shut the faucet and let the ashes soak. 
As they settle, add more ashes until 
the tub is again full. The longer the 



water stands before being drawn off 
the stronger the lye will be. Usually 
a few hours will be suflScient. The 
strength of the lye need not be always 
the same, as the alkali will only unite 
with a certain proportion of fat any- 
way, and more lye can be added until 
all the fat is saponified. Lye that 
will float a fresh egg is regarded as 
of standard strength for soap mak- 
ing. 

To Make Potash. — If a recipe calls 
for potash and the commercial article 
is not at hand it may be made by 
boiling down the lye in a heavy iron 
kettle. After the water is driven off 
a dark, dry residue will remain which 
is known as " black salts." The heat 
must be kept up until this is melted, 
when the black impurities will be 
burned away and a grayish-white sub- 
stance will remain. This is potash. 

Potash soaps are, generally speak- 
ing, soft soaps. When the native for- 
ests were being cleared away in this 
country in colonial days (as also in 
Russia and in timber lands to-day), 
coiisiderable quantities of commercial 
potash were made by this method. 
Our grandparents and great-grand- 
parents used soft soap from home- 
made potash almost exclusively. There 
is no doubt that in many localities it 
is still profitable to follow their ex- 
ample. 

To Make Soda Lye from Sal Soda. 
— Caustic soda is prepared commer- 
cially by the action of quicklime on 
sal soda (sodium carbonate). 

Soda lye can be made at home by 
the following process: 

First slake 1 quart of quicklime 
with 3 quarts of water, which will re- 
duce the lime to the consistency of 
cream. Now dissolve 3 quarts of sal 
soda in S quarts of boiling water. 
Add the slaked lime, stirring vigorous- 
ly, and keep the mixture at a boil un- 
til the ingredients are thoroughly 
mingled. Allow the mixture to cool 
and settle, pouring the lye off the 
dregs. Caustic soda is produced from 
this lye by boiling down the lye until 
the water is evaporated, when a dry 
residue is left in the kettle. 



SOAP AND SOAP MAKING 



189 



To Preserve Grease. — Animal fats 
suitable for soap making may be ob- 
tained by trying out beef suet, mut- 
ton tallow, or pork scraps, straining 
the melted grease through a coarse 
linen cloth, and squeezing the scraps 
dry. Fat may be purified by boiling 
in water in which a little salt or alum 
has been added. When allowed to cool 
the pure fat will rise in a cake. This 
cake of fat, before it is put away in 
the grease tub, must be carefully dried 
from the water which adheres to it 
when lifted or it will not keep sweet. 
This is the best method of preserving 
soap grease. 

Or, since it is not always convenient 
to try out the scraps and strain the 
grease, it is quite customary to allow 
such grease and scraps to accumulate 
for a longer or shorter period. Hence 
another method is to have at hand a 
large iron kettle partly filled with 
weak lye and drop into this all the 
bits of fat from steaks, chops, and 
ham, surplus grease used in frying, 
and the like, including bits of lean 
meat and bone. The action of the lye 
partially saponifies the grease and 
prevents it from becoming rancid. 
Before the kettle becomes full, an op- 
portimity may be taken to try out the 
grease by boiling and straining. 

Or have at hand a half barrel or 
cask containing weak lye, drop into 
this cask all the scraps and grease, 
and allow them to accumiilate until 
the time comes for soap making. 

To Purify Grease. — If grease and 
scraps are exposed to the air at or- 
dinary temperatures, the particles of 
lean meat and other impurities which 
they contain will decompose and the 
grease itself will become rancid. 

When this happens, put the grease 
in a boiler with about three times its 
weight of water, and add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of permanganate of potash for 
each 6 pounds of the grease. Stir, 
boil, and strain through a cloth, 
squeezing the scraps as dry as possi- 
ble. The pot of lye can be added to 
the kettle of soap. 

To Grain Fat. — ^A much better soap 
may be made if the accumulation of 



grease is prepared by a process which 
reduces it to a grapular sta'te. Grained 
fat is sweet and is acted on by the lye 
easily and quickly, probably because 
its granular condition enables the al- 
kali to come in contact with a greater 
portion of its surface. It gives a soap 
free from rank odors, and if thor- 
oughly dried and kept dry may be 
preserved for an indefinite time. 

To grain fat it must be cut into 
small pieces and boiled in water in 
the proportions of about 40 pounds 
of water to 100 pounds of fat. To 
this mixture add J pound of alum and 
i pound of salt. Boil and strain 
through a coarse cloth. Wash the 
cake of strained fat in clean water. 
Remelt with gentle heat, and pour 
into a receptacle containing about 
twice as much water as the melted 
grease. Now add about one tenth by 
bulk of good clear soap in comparison 
with the amount of grease, taking care 
that the temperature of the grease 
and water is kept at about blood heat. 
Stir the mixture thoroughly until cold, 
allow the fat to rise, and it will be 
found in a perfect granular condi- 
tion. It should be placed on slats to 
drain, and thoroughly dried before 
being packed in tubs or earthenware 
for preservation. 

SOPT SOAP 

Soft Soap — Cold Process. — A pow- 
erful detergent for scrubbing floors, 
walls, and sinks, and all other pur- 
poses of the household can be made 
from ordinary kitchen drippings by 
the use of crude potash. This is very 
common in the older portions of the 
United States, especially New York 
and New England. One of the best 
traditional receipts for homemade soft 
soap is; fat, 12 pounds; potash, 9 
pounds; water, 12 gallons. 

Put the fat in a tight cask or bar- 
rel and add the potash dissolved in 3 
gallons of boiling water. Mix by stir- 
ring. Add the remaining 9 gallons 
of water, 3 gallons at a time, boiling 
hot, once in 24 hours, and each time 
stir vigorously. A long stick or pad- 



190 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



die should be kept in the mixture, and 
it should be stirred frequently. The 
alkali at once attacks the fat, but it 
will require a month or more, depend- 
ing upon the purity of the Ingredients, 
to complete the process of saponifica- 
tion. When the soap is done it will 
be free from lumps and will have a 
uniform jellylike consistency. When 
stirred it will have a silky luster and 
will trail off in slender threads from 
the paddle. 

Soft soap contains, in addition to 
the actual alkali salts of the fatty 
acids — i. e., reeil soap — a certain 
amount of free alkali, aU of the glyc- 
erin contained in the fat, which is 
released in the process of saponifica- 
tion, and other impurities. If these 
are removed by boiling, the result is 
the formation of hard soap as here- 
inafter described. 

Soft Soap — Boiling Process. — Soft 
soap may also be made by boiling di- 
lute caustic potash lye or lye from 
leached ashes with grease until sapon- 
ification takes place. To effect this, 
prepare a sufficient quantity of lye in 
a separate receptacle, put the grease 
in the soap kettle, add sufficient lye in 
which to melt the grease without 
burning, and continue to ladle in ad- 
ditional lye until all the grease is 
saponified. This will be done more 
quickly if the lye is added boiling 
hot. In making soft soap it must be 
borne in mind that aU impurities con- 
tained in the ingredients will be found 
in the completed product. Hence the 
importance of purifying the grease 
and using a good white lye. Also, if 
too much lye is added, a soft soap 
will be produced that will have strong 
caustic properties. Hence more grease 
must be put in to take up the excess 
of lye. 

As the lye is gradually added and 
combined with the grease, the thick 
liquid will become stringy and some- 
what turbid. It will fall from the 
paddle with a shining luster. A ladle- 
ful of a stronger lye should be added 
at regular intervals until the liquid 
becomes clarified in a uniformly clear 
slime. 



To test if the soap is done, put a 
few drops from the middle of the 
kettle on a plate of glass to cool. If 
the soap remains clear when cool it 
is complete. If there is a great de- 
ficiency of lye the drop of soap will 
be weak and gray; if the deficiency 
is not quite so great there may be 
merely a gray margin around the out- 
side of the drop; if too much lye has 
been added a gray skin will spread 
over the whole drop. It will cease 
to be sticky, but while wet can be 
easily slid along the glass. In this 
case the soap is said to be overdone 
and more grease must be added. The 
froth which rises is caused by an ex- 
cess, of water, and the soap must be 
kept on the fire until this is evaporat- 
ed, the froth being beaten with pad- 
dles to admit the air. When the froth 
ceases to rise the soap falls lower in 
the kettle and takes on a darker col- 
or. White bubbles appear on its sur- 
face one over another, with a peculiar 
sound, causing soap boilers to say 
that " the soap talks." It is now com- 
plete and is ready for use as soon as 
cold. 

Becipes for Soft Soap^Cold Proc- 
ess. — Mix in a kettle or wash boiler 
8 pounds of melted grease with 1| 
pailfuls of strong lye that will float 
a fresh egg. Bring to a boil, pour 
into the soap barrel, and thin with 
weak lye obtained by leaching wood 
ashes. Place the barrel out of doors 
in warm water or in a warm place. 
The soap should be ready for use in 
a few days. 

Or mix 10 pounds of clear melted 
grease, 6 pounds of sal soda, and 8 
gallons of hot water in the soap bar- 
rel. Stir once a day and let the mix- 
ture stand until completely saponi- 
fied. 

Or melt 8 pounds of grease in a 
kettle and bring to the boiling point. 
In another kettle melt 8 pounds of 
caustic soda and 1 pound of sal soda 
in 4 gallons of soft water, and pour 
all together into a 40-gallon cask. Fill 
up the cask with soft water, stir daily, 
and let the mixture stand until sapon- 
ified. 



SOAP ANp SOAP MAKING 



191 



Or melt 4 pounds of lard in a ket- 
tle and 6 pounds of potash in an- 
other kettle with 3 to 5 gallons of 
water. Pour the lard into the melted 
potash in a thin stream, stirring con- 
stantly. Pour into a tub and let 
stand until saponified. 

Mix 6 pounds of potash, 4 pounds 
of lard, and J pound of powdered 
rosin, and allow the mixture to stand 
for a week. Now melt in a kettle 
with 2 or 3 gallons of water, pour 
the mixture into a 10-gallon cask filled 
with soft water, and stir two or three 
times a day for 2 weeks. 

Or put into a kettle i poimd of sal 
soda and 1 pound of brown soap in 
shavings. Add a pailful of cold water, 
melt with gentle heat, and stir until 
dissolved. It is ready to use as soon 
as cool. 

Soft Soap — ^Boilingr Frocess. — Dis- 
solve 8 pounds of potash in a large 
iron pot with 3 or 4 gallons of boiling 
water. Melt 8 pounds of clarified 
fat to the boiling point in a separate 
vessel. Now put 4 gallons of boiling 
water in a soap barrel and add with 
a ladle first 1 quart of hot fat and 
then 1 quart of the hot lye. Continue 
this process — one person stirring brisk- 
ly and another ladling — imtil fat and 
lye are all used. Now pour in enough 
boiling water to fill the barrel, stir- 
ring constantly until the whole be- 
comes a, creamy emulsion of a uni- 
form appearance. Let the barrel 
stand for 2 or 3 months in a cool 
place until it is completely saponi- 
fied. 

Or dissolve 1 pound of potash in 1 
gallon of warm water. Let it stand 
over night, and in the morning bring 
it to a boil and add 10 ounces of pure 
clarified melted grease. Place this in 
a tub with IJ gallons of warm water, 
mix well, and allow to stand until 
saponified. 

Soft Soap. — ^Melt 4 pounds of clear 
fat in one kettle, and dissolve 4 
pounds of caustic potash with 6 quarts 
of boiling water in another. Pour 2 
gallons of soft water, boiling hot, into 
a clean tub or barrel, and ladle into 
this water the melted fat and the dis- 



solved potash alternately, one person 
ladling and another stirring, until the 
ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Add 
boiling soft water each day, 2 gallons 
at a time, stirring the whole each time 
vigorously, until it equals 16 gallons^ 
Place the barrel in a cellar or other 
cool place and stir occasionally for 3 
minutes. The oftener it is stirred the 
better. This is a standard household 
recipe. 

Hard Soap Hade Soft. — Hard soap 
may be reduced to the consistency of 
soft soap by dissolving it in a suit- 
able quantity of water. Shave the 
hard soap fine or run it through a 
meat cutter. Add twice its bulk of 
soft water and simmer with gentle 
heat until the soap is dissolved. 

The amount of water required will 
depend upoft the nature of the soap. 
If too thick, a little more water may 
be added; if too thin, the excess of 
water may be removed by keeping 
on the stove until the surplus water 
has evaporated. If quite thin when 
taken from the fire it will assume on 
hardening about the consistency of 
soft soap, and will not irritate the 
skin as ordinary soft soap is apt to 
do on account of its excess of alkali. 

HABS SOAP 

To Boil Hard Soap. — The process 
of making hard soap is similar to that 
of making soft soap by boiling, with 
the addition of steps taken to sepa- 
rate water, glycerin, excess of alkali, 
and other impurities from the true 
soap, i. e., the alkali salts of the fat- 
ty acids. As, this is the real process 
of soap making, it may be described 
in full. The best method requires 
three kettles, two small kettles to hold 
the lye dnd the fat respectively, and 
one large enough to contain both in- 
gredients without boiling over. Put 
the clean grained fat, or the grease, 
in one of the smaller kettles, with suf- 
ficient water or weak lye to prevent 
burning, and raise to a boil. Put the 
lye, or the solution of soda or potash, 
or both, in the other small kettle and 
dissolve in boiling water. Now place 



192 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the large kettle on the fire and ladle 
into it about one quarter of the melt- 
ed fat. Add an equal quantity of 
the hot lye, stirring the mixture con- 
stantly. Continue thus, one person 
ladling and another stirring, until 
about two thirds of the fat and lye 
have been thoroughly mixed together. 
At this stage the mixture should be 
a uniform emulsion of about the con- 
sistency of cream. A few drops of 
the fluid cooled on a glass plate should 
show neither globules of oil nor water 
separately, and a drop of the cooled 
liquid on the tongue should not have 
an alkaline, biting taste. Now add 
enough strong lye to complete the de- 
composition of the fats and the re- 
moval of the glycerin, and continue 
boiling imtil the mixture has a strong 
alkaline or burning taste. Add the 
remainder of the fat and lye alter- 
nately, taking care that in the end 
there shall be no excess of lye. 

Up to this point the process is sim- 
ilar to boUing soft soap, and we have 
seen that to make soft soap of the 
mixture it is only necessary to evapo- 
rate the excess of water by a boiling- 
down process. The important dif- 
ference in making hard soap is the 
addition, at this point, of salt, by 
means of which the creamy emulsion 
of oils and alkali is broken up. The 
salt has a stronger affinity for water 
than soap has. Hence the salt takes 
the water and causes the soap to sepa- 
rate and rise on the surface of the lye 
in a curdy, granulated state. The 
mother liquor or spent lye wiU be 
foimd to contain glycerin and salt 
with other impurities, but no fat or 
alkali. Hence glycerin is one of the 
important by-products of commercial 
soap making. 

To Improve Hard Soap. — A better 
quality of soap may be made by re- 
melting the product of the first boil- 
ing and adding more fats or oils and 
lye as needed vntil the mixture has a 
decided taste of alkali, then boiling 
the whole until the process of saponi- 
fication is complete. 

If pure grained fat and good white 
lye are used, the resulting product 



will be a. pure white hard soap that 
will be suitable for all household pur- 
poses. The time required will depend 
on the strength of the lye, but usually 
from two to four hours' boiling is 
necessary. 

Hard Soap. — The same Ingredients 
are used in both soft soap and hard 
soap, and soft soap may be purified 
and hardened by boiling and by the 
addition of salt as above described. 
Glauber's salts (sulphate of soda) 
melted by fire in a thick iron kettle 
wiU harden soaps which would other- 
wise be too soft. Add about 1 pound 
of fused salt to 20 pounds of the 
soap. 

Stir 1 poimd of potash lye into 1 
quart of cold water until dissolved. 
Set aside until it is cold. Mix 2 table- 
spoonfuls each of powdered borax 
and powdered ammonia into 1 gill of 
water. Melt with gentle heat S potmds 
of purified grained fat. Pour the cold 
lye gradually into the warm grease, 
and stir in the borax and ammonia, 
mixing and stirring vigorously for 15 
or 20 minutes. Line a tight wooden 
box or pan vrith muslin or greased 
paper, and pour the soap into it to 
cool and harden. When hard cut into 
bars with cord or annealed wire. If 
the fat has been properly clarified, 
this soap is said to be clear and white 
and will float on water. It is a. pow- 
erful cleanser. 

Or dissolve 1 pound of potash lye 
in a gallon of boiling water. Let this 
stand over night and pour off the 
clear liquid. Add a second gallon of 
boiling water, put the lye in a kettle, 
and raise it to a boil. Now pour in a 
thin stream 4 pounds of melted grease 
heated to the boiling point. Stir con- 
stantly until an emulsion is formed 
and simmer from four to six hours. 
Then add another gallon of hot water 
in which is dissolved a teacupful of 
salt. To test if the soap is done lift 
some of it on a cold knife blade; if 
it is ropy and clear and cools quickly 
the mixture is saponified. This makes 
about 25 pounds of a cheap white 
soap of good cleansing qualities for 
general family use. 



SOAP AND SOAP MAKING 



193 



To Pack and Preserve Soap. — ^When 
the separation of soap from the lye 
is complete, it may be removed by 
means of skimmers and placed in 
shallow square boxes over which a 
loose piece of muslin has previously 
been thrown to prevent the soap from 
sticking. Or it may be cooled and 
solidified by pouring it into a wash- 
tub or firkin previously soaked in 
water. When cold, it may be cut into 
small bars by the use of a smooth. 




" Cut into Bars with a Wire." 

hard cord or an annealed copper wire. 
A knife chips and consequently wastes 
the soap. Now pack the bars corn- 
cob fashion on slat shelves in a cool, 
dry place to season and become thor- 
oughly dry and hard. If the soap is 
used green it dissolves too readily and 
a good deal of it is wasted. When 
thoroughly dried it will last fully 
twice as long. For this reason it is a 
good plan to make soap in large quan- 
tities. Those who are in the habit of 
purchasing soap should buy it by the 
box and allow it to thoroughly season 
before using. 

The above are general principles 
and directions for soap making. We 
will now proceed to give particular 
household recipes for various kinds 
and quantities of homemade soaps to 
meet all household requirements: 



Hard Potash Soaps. — The following 
are good family recipes; we especially 
recommend the third. 

Dissolve 1 pound of potash in 10 
quarts of boiling water. Add slowly 
3 pounds of melted grease, stirring 
constantly. Now add J pound of 
borax. Boil and stir until saponified. 
This requires 4 or 5 hours. 

Or dissolve 1 pound of potash in 2 
quarts of boiling water. Add S pounds 
of melted grease, stirring constantly. 
Let stand 24 hours. Add 1 gallon of 
boiling water. Boil and stir until 
saponified. 

Dissolve 1 pound of potash in 2J 
pints of cold water. The union of 
potash and water generates great 
heat, hence care must be taken not to 
allow the mixture to touch the skin or 
clothing. Stir with a glass rod or 
piece of stick until dissolved. It must 
not be used until cold. Meantime mix 
3 teaspoonfuls each of powdered 
borax and ammonia in half a cup of 
water. Melt SJ pounds of clarified 
grease, strain, and cool to about blood 
heat. Pour the warm grease into 
the cold lye and beat up the mass 
with an egg beater, adding grad- 
ually the borax and ammonia. Stir 
until a complete emulsion is formed, 
which will require 10 or 15 minutes. 
Pour into wet tub or other mold to 
cool. 

Or put soft soap in a large kettle 
and raise to a boil. Then add 1 pint 
of common salt for each gallon of 
soft soap, stirring vigorously until the 
salt is dissolved. Take off the fire 
and let stand over night. Skim the 
soap off the lye, scrape off the dark, 
soft dregs that stick to the lower side 
of the cakes, cleanse the kettle, cut 
the soap into thin shavings, return 
to the kettle with weak lye, and boil 
once more. When boiling add another 
pint of salt for each gallon of soap, 
and allow to cool. 

When cold and hard the soap may 
be removed and dried, the dregs being 
scraped from the lower side as be- 
fore. The amount of salt to use may 
be determined by continuing to add 
salt and stirring until the soap curdles 



194 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



and takes on a whitish color. To test 
the soap, place a small amount on a 
plate and as it (^ools observe its color 
and consistency. If it contains too 
much alkali it will not granulate. In 
that case add a little clean fat, stir- 
ring vigorously. 

Melt 5i pounds of clear-grained fat 
and strain through a coarse cloth. Al- 
low the grease to cool, but before it 
hardens add 1 pound of caustic pot- 
ash dissolved in 3 pints of cold water. 
Stir vigorously until the mixture 
thickens. The soap is improved by 
letting it stand in a warm, dry place 
for S or 6 days. 

Yellow Hard Soap from Soft Soap. 
— To make a good yellow soap from 
soft soap observe the following pro- 
portions: eight pounds of good soft 
soap, 4 pounds of sal soda, 3 ounces 
of borax, 1 ounce of ammonia, i 
pound of powdered resin. Dissolve 
all in 24 quarts of water and boil 30 
minutes. 

To Increase Soaip. — An easy way to 
increase the quantity and value of or- 
dinary soap bought at the store is by 
dissolving the bars of soap and add- 
ing other ingredients. Dry the bars 
and slice them with a knife or run 
them through a meat chopper. Dis- 
solve by boiling with hot water. The 
following proportions may be ob- 
served : 

Four pounds of white bar soap, 1 
pound of sal soda, 4 gallons of soft 
water. Ready as soon as dissolved. 

Or i pound of hard or soft soap, J 
pound of sal soda, 3 quarts of soft 
water. Boil 20 minutes. 

Or 5 pounds of hard soap (or 7 
pounds of soft soap), 4 pounds of sal 
soda, 2 pounds of borax, 1 ounce of 
ammonia, 24 quarts of water. Boil 
20 minutes. 

To make hard yellow soap of the 
last, add J pound of powdei-ed resin. 

Or 2 pounds of yellow bar soap, 2 
pounds of sal soda, 2 quarts of water. 
This is a good laundry soap to boil 
clothes in, but as the sal soda contains 
an excess of alkali care must be taken 
not to let the clothes stand in the suds 
and to rinse them very thoroughly. 



SODA SOAPS 

Soda Soaps. — ^A favorite method of 
soap making is the saponification of 
various fats and oils by the use of 
caustic soda. As a rule soda soaps 
are hard soaps, soft soap being or- 
dinarily produced from potash. Caus- 
tic soda is now produced so cheaply 
that the commercial article is ordina- 
rily used in soap making, and domes- 
tic hard soap can be made in this way 
about as cheaply as by the earlier 
methods of leaching wood ashes to 
obtain caustic potash or boiling sal 
soda with lime. 

To prepare a caustic soda lye for 
soap making, dissolve 3 parts of sal 
soda in S times as much boiling water. 
In a separate stone vessel slake 1 part 
of quicklime with 3 parts of water, 
mix to a cream and add in a thin 
stream to the boUing solution of sal 
soda, stirring constantly. Mix and 
boil for 10 or 15 minutes, remove 
from the fire and let the solution 
settle. Pour off the clear liquid from 
the sediment and the lye will be 
ready for use. The strength of the 
lye may be increased by boiling down 
over a brisk fire, leaving off the cover 
of the kettle to admit the air. 

Or, if desired, the boiling may be 
continued until all the water is evapo- 
rated and a melted residue is left, 
which may be poured into molds and 
bottled for future use. This is caus- 
tic soda, and may be dissolved in hot 
water when required to form a caustic 
soda lye. 

There is no danger in making soaps 
by this process if the solution is al- 
lowed plenty of time to settle and the 
clear liquid is poured off in such a 
way as not to retain any of the sedi- 
ment of slaked lime. If a suitable 
quantity of grease is used all the 
caustic soda contained in the lye wiU 
unite with it and become neutralized. 
A i^ure hard soap containing no free 
alkali or other injurious substance will 
be the result. The following are a 
number of standard family recipes: 

Dissolve 3 pounds of sal soda in IJ 
gallons of soft water. Slake separate- 



SOAP AND SOAP MAKING 



195 



ly in a stone vessel 2 pounds of fresh 
quicklime in 3 quarts of soft water 
and stir to a cream. Bring the soda 
solution to a boil, pour in the slaked 
lime in a thin stream, let the mixture 
boil up well, remove from the fire, 
Vnd let stand over night to settle. 
Now carefully pour oflf the clear 
liquid so as not to disturb the sedi- 
ment. Melt down in a clean soap ket- 
tle 3 pounds of clarified grease or fat 
with a little water, add, if desired, 4 
ounces of borax, pour in the soda lye 
in a thin stream, stirring constantly, 
and boil until saponified. 

Soak a wooden paU or tub in water 
and pour the soap into this to hard- 
en. When hard cut into bars with a 
thin wire and stack up corncob fash- 
ion to dry. Add perfume if desired 
at the rate of about J to J oimce fcr 
this quantity, just after the soap is 
taken from the fire, stirring it into 
the Uquid mass thoroughly before it 
is poured into the pail or tub to cool. 
This is a favorite domestic soap of 
good quality for household purposes, 
and if carefully made according to 
directions can be used in washing the 
most delicate woolen goods and simi- 
lar articles. 

Or dissolve 6 pounds of sal soda in 
2J gallons of soft water, and in a 
separate vessel slake 1 poimd of fresh 
quicklime in 2 quarts of soft water. 
Bring the soda solution to a boU, 
pour in the lime in a thin stream. 
Let stand over night. Pour off the 
clear soda lye. Dissolve 6 pounds of 
clarified grease or fat in the soap 
kettle, pour in the soda lye in a thin 
stream, and boil until saponified. Add 
for this quantity 4 to 1 ounce of any 
desired essential oil to perfume after 
the soap has been removed from the 
fire, stirring thoroughly before it is 
poured into the tub or kettle to cool. 

Hard Soap from Caustic Soda. — 
Slake 3 pounds of fresh quicklime 
with 3 times its bulk of water, and 
dissolve 3 pounds of sal soda in 2 
gallons of hot water. Mix these in- 
gredients in a tub or wash boiler ; add 
2 gallons of boiling water, stirring 
vigorously. When the mixture has 



settled, pour off the clear liquor, which 
is soda lye, into the soap kettle, and 
add 2 pounds of melted clarified 
grease, pouring in a thin stream and 
stirring vigorously. Add also 2 ounces 
of powdered borax. Boil slowly for 
10 or 15 minutes, when the mixture 
should become thick and stringy. 
When cold this will be found to be a 
good hard soap for family use. The 
longer it can be dried and cured the 
better. 

Hard Soap with Sal Soda. — Dis- 
solve 4 bars of shaved yellow soap in 
2 gallons of soft water; add 2 pounds 
of sal soda and 4 ounces of borax. 
Boil and stir vigorously imtil the in- 
gredients are thoroughly incorporated. 
Pour the soap into a washtub previ- 
ously soaked in water to prevent stick- 
ing, and just before it sets add IJ 
ounces of aqua ammonia, stirring thor- 
oughly. Allow 3 or 4 days to harden, 
cut in bars, pack, and cure. 

Soda Soaps — Not Neutral. — For 
rough work, as washing coarse gar- 
ments, scouring, washing greasy pots 
and kettles, and for the use of me- 
chanics and laborers, as printers, 
blacksmiths, machine-shop men, and 
the like, it is quite customary to make 
a hard soap containing an excess of 
alkali. But it should be carefully 
noted that such soaps are not suitable 
for washing paint or delicate fabrics, 
and that they have a tendency to chap 
and roughen the skin. Soaps of this 
kind are made by melting down a 
good hard soap containing no excess 
of alkali with a suitable quantity of 
caustic soda lye. As the fat con- 
tained in the soap has already neu- 
tralized as much alkali as it is capable 
of acting upon, the result is merely 
the addition of a quantity of free 
alkali which, of course, increases the 
cleansing power of the soap by giving 
it a caustic quality. 

To make a soap of this kind put J 
pound of fresh quicklime in an earth- 
en jar and pour over it 2 quarts of 
boiling water. Let stand a couple of 
hours, stirring frequently, allow the 
sediment to settle, and pour off the 
clear liquid into the soap kettle. Add 



196 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



3 gallons of soft water, 2 pounds of 
hard white neutral soap, shaved, and 
IJ pounds of sal soda; boil, stirring 
constantly until all the ingredients are 
thoroughly mixed and dissolved and 
fuUy saponified. Now stir in 1 ounce 
of salt. Remove from the fire and 
pour into a well-soaked wooden tub 
or pail. This recipe makes a thick 
soft soap suitable for all coarse laun- 
dry and other purposes. 

Or, for a hard soap of this kind, 
first prepare a caustic soda lye by dis- 
solving 1 pound of sal soda in IJ 
gallons of soft water, and slaking in 
a separate stone vessel 8 ounces of 
fresh quicklime in 2 quarts of soft 
water. Bring the soda solution to a 
boil, pour in the sleiked lime in a thin 
stream, boil up 10 or IS minutes, 
stirring constantly, and let stand over 
night to settle. Now pour off the 
clear solution, taking care not to dis- 
turb the sediment. Add SJ pounds 
of hard white neutral soap, shaved 
thin, and bring to a boil, stirring con- 
stantly imtil the soap is dissolved. 
Remove from the fire and stir in 1 
ounce of borax, J ounce of alum with 
J to 1 ounce of any desired perfume. 
Let cool and add, if desired, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of benzine. Pour into a 
weU-soaked wooden vessel to cool, and 
cut into bars with a thin wire. 

Or bring to a boU in a soap kettle 
3 gallons of soft water. Stir in IJ 
pounds of sal soda and i pound of 
borax, until dissolved. Add in a thin 
stream J poimd of melted tallow, stir- 
ring constantly, and S pounds of good 
hard yellow soap, shaved fine. Stir 
until all the ingredients are thorough- 
ly mixed and saponified. Slake in a 
separate vessel 4 or S pounds of fresh 
quicklime, and rub it through a coarse 
sieve to free it from lumps. Add as 
much of the fresh-slaked lime as can 
be stirred in. This is a very strong 
soap, only suitable for coarse work, 
but it will cut all kinds of grease, ink, 
tar, etc. 

Soda Soft Soaps — Not Neutral. — 
Dissolve in 2 gallons of boiling water 
1 pound of sal soda, and shave in 3 
pounds of hard white neutral soap or 



hard white or yellow soap of the best 
quality. Boil up 5 or 10 minutes, 
stirring constantly, and pour into a 
weU-soaked wooden tub or other ves- 
sel to cool. Like other soft soaps this 
preparation contains an excess of al- 
kali and is only suitable for coarse 
work, but it is a powerful cleanser. 
Other ingredients, as aqua ammonia, 
benzine, and the like, may be added 
to this soap if desired. 

Or dissolve in 2 gallons of soft 
water J pound of sal soda, 3 pounds 
of hard white soap, and add J ounce 
of aqua ammonia and 4 ounces of 
borax. 

BOSIN SOAP 

Soap with Bosin — Common Yellow 
Soap. — ^While making hard soap the 
addition of rosin increases its weight 
and bulk more than its value. Where 
rosin is used it is necessary to melt 
up the cake of soap with water after 
it has been removed from the lye, and 
boil. After boiling the mixture must 
be allowed to stand until cool, when 
the hard upper portion vrill be found 
to be pure yellow soap, and the soft 
lower portion containing the dregs 
can be scraped off and used another 
time. Rosin does not make true soap, 
but is useful in diluting animal fats, 
and when carefully prepared with 
strong alkalies and in not too large 
a proportion, it is of advantage be- 
cause it is cheap and helps to make a 
good lather. 

Rosin Soap. — A good method of 
making a rosin soap, where it is de- 
sired to incorporate as much rosin as 
possible, is to saponify the rosin and 
the grease separately. By this means 
about IS per cent of rosin can be 
used to advantage. Some cheap soaps 
contain as much as 2S or 30 per 
cent of rosin, but these are soft and 
apt to leave a resinous coating on 
the hands, with an offensive smell, 
and are in other respects unsatisfac- 
tory. 

One gallon of strong lye wDl sapon- 
ify about 8 pounds of rosin. To ac- 
complish this, first reduce the rosin to 



SOAP AND SOAP MAKING 



197 



a powder, raise the lye to a boil, and 
introduce the rosin gently, stirring 
vigorously. Keep the mixture sim- 
mering at the boiling point and stir 
constantly, otherwise the rosin will 
form in a cake at the top of the lye 
that will retard the operation. At 
best it will require about two hours. 
Meantime saponify the grease in an- 
other kettle, and when both are done 
and still hot pour the rosin into the 
soap grease, boil, and stir vigorously 
imtil thoroughly incorporated. The 
addition of a small quantity of palm 
oil to the tallow wUl improve the soap 
by rendering it transparent and by 
giving it an agreeable flavor. 

English Bar Soap. — Take 1 gallon 
of soft water, 1 pound of good stone 
lime, 3J pounds of sal soda, 1 ounce 
of borax, 2J pounds of tallow or 
other animal fat, If pounds of pulver- 
ized rosin, and 1 ounce of beeswax. 
First bring the water to a boil, then 
add gradually the lime and soda, stir- 
ring vigorously. Next add the borax. 
Boil and stir until dissolved. Pour 
in the melted fat in a thin stream, 
stirring vigorously; add the rosin and 
beeswax; boU and stir until it thick- 
ens and cools in molds. This old-time 
English method is a favorite family 
recipe throughout the United States. 

Or dissolve 6 pounds of sal soda 
and 3 pounds of quicklime in 4 gal- 
lons of soft water. Let the mixture 
settle and pour off the clear soda lye. 
Raise the lye to a boil and add grad- 
ually 6 pounds of melted lard, mix- 
ing gradually until it saponifies. This 
is a good soap for all domestic pur- 
poses. 

Soft Kosin Soap — Cold Process. — 
Mix 3 ounces of powdered rosin with 
3 pounds of lard. Add 3 pounds of 
potash. Mix and set aside 5 or 6 
days. Place in a cask with 5 gal- 
lons of boiling water and stir fre- 
quently for about 2 weeks. This 
recipe will produce about 100 poimds 
of good soap. 

Kosin Soap from Soda. — Dissolve 
6 pounds of sal soda and 6 pounds of 
quicklime in 10 quarts of water. Boil 
from 20 minutes to a half hour. Re- 



move from the fire and allow it to 
settle. Draw off the clear soda lye, 
bring it to a boil, and add 1 pound of 
powdered rosin and 7 pounds of melt- 
ed fat. Boil until saponified, which 
will require a half hour or more. 

Or use 3 pounds of sal soda and 8 
ounces of stone lime with 3 quarts of 
soft water to make a lye. Mix to- 
gether, boil, settle, and pour off the 
clear lye. Melt separately 1 pound 
of tallow, 14 ounces of rosin, and 2 
ounces of palm oil. Bring the clear 
lye to a boil and add gradually the 
other ingredients. Mix, stir, and boil 
until saponified, which yill require 
20 to 30 minutes. This is a well- 
known German recipe. 

SPECIAL SOAPS 

A Soap from Caustic Soda lye. — 
Use 3 pounds of quicklime and 6 
pounds of sal soda, with 4 gallons of 
soft water to make a lye. Mix, boil, 
settle, and pour off the clear lye. 
Bring the lye to a boil and add 6 
pounds of melted lard, stirring and 
boiling until it saponifies. 

Whale-oil Soap. — This is prepared 
from whale-oil foot, a sediment pro- 
duced in refining whale oil, by sapon- 
ification with soda lye. It is used to 
destroy insects. 

Soap Bark. — This substance, which 
can be bought of all druggists, is a 
good cleansing material for dark, sol- 
id-colored garments. It cannot be 
used for light colors, as it has a ten- 
dency to stain them. 

Make an infusion of the soap bark 
by simmering it with gentle heat in 
water kept just at the boiling point 
for 2 or 3 hours, in the proportion 
of 6 cents' worth of bark to 1 quart 
of boiling water. Strain and bottle 
for future use. This may be used 
with a sponge to remove grease spots, 
afterwards rinsing with clear soft 
water. 

Scouring Soap. — Melt the scraps of 
soap left in the kitchen and laundry, 
or melt up any good white or yello^v 
soap and add about half as much 
more, according to preference, of 



198 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



marble dust, powdered pumice stone, 
or a good quality of clean dry sand. 
The scouring soaps bought in the 
market usually cost about as much 
for sand and other impurities as for 
actual soap. Hence they are not eco- 
nomical to buy. 

Soap from Beef Gall. — Saponify 
with gentle heat in a copper kettle or 
earthenware jar, placed in a double 
boiler, 1 pound of cocoanut oil by 
adding J pound of caustic soda and 
stirring constantly. Add J pound of 
hot white spirits of turpentine; sim- 
mer with gentle heat 3 or 4 hours, 
and then bring to a boil. When 
the contents have worked clear add 1 
pound of oxgall. Now add from 1 
to 3 pounds of shaved castile soap, 
stirring until the mixture is of about 
the consistency of dough. Take off 
the fire and allow to cool. This is a 
splendid soap for washing delicate 
fabrics, fine silk, lace, and ribbons, 
and is especially recommended for 
delicate colored articles, as it will not 
cause the colors to run. 

Masquere's Acid Soap. — Shave 1 
pound of hard white castile soap in 
enough water to make a stiff paste. 
Add i ounce of oil of vitriol, gradu- 
ally rubbing the mass in a mortar or 
earthenware bowl until the acid is 
thoroughly incorporated. This is a 
strong detergent, to be used where an 
alkali would be harmful. 

Castile or Marseilles Soap. — This 
soap is usually imported and is made 
in southern Europe. It is based on 
olive oil. But as the pure olive oil 
produces a hard, brittle soap difficult 
to dissolve in water, it is usually 
combined with about 20 per cent of 
rape-seed oil. This soap is noted for 
its purity, freedom from animal odors, 
and lasting quality. It is much used 
for the toilet, especially for infants, 
and for laces and delicate fabrics. 

Other vegetable oil soaps tnay be 
made from castor oil and palm oil. 
The palm oil has a strong yellow color 
and a rather agreeable odor. Hence 
it is often used to scent and give a 
certain transparency to yeUow soap 
and to disguise the presence of rosin. 



Marine Soap. — A soap based upon 
the oil of the cocoanut. It is often 
used to wash in salt water for the 
reason that it is not decomposed eas- 
ily by a weak solution of salt. It is 
remarkable for extreme hardness and 
for the quantity of water it will take 
up without becoming soft. 

Sand Soaps. — These are ordinary 
soaps containing a mechanical mixture 
of sand, powdered pumice, fuller's 
earth, and alumina. They are useful 
for scouring purposes, but should be 
sold much cheaper, bulk for bulk, than 
pure soaps. These soaps have been 
replaced on the market in recent years 
by soaps containing a mixture of solu- 
ble glass or sand combined with sodi- 
um. This is a weak alkaline com- 
pound. Hence the soaps containing 
them are alkaline, and unless they are 
rendered neutral by combining the al- 
kali with rosin or fatty acids they 
may be injurious to the skin or to 
delicate fabrics. 

Soap — Odds and Ends. — There are 
several useful ways of disposing of 
soap scraps. Dry them out thorough- 
ly on tins in a warm oven, run them 
through a meat chopper (which can, 
of course, be easily cleaned after- 
wards), pound to a powder, mix with 
bran or oatmeal, and place in small 
cheese-cloth bags for the bath. 

Or, when the scraps have accumu- 
lated, boil them with water until they 
melt and thicken. Use just enough 
water to keep them from burning. 
Pour into small molds like can covers, 
and allow them to harden. These give 
you new cakes of soap. 

Or make a jelly of bits of fine wliite 
soap by melting a cupful of broken 
bits in a pint of hot water. Or run 
the soap through a meat cutter, or 
shave fine and melt with gentle heat. 
The soap will jell when cold. This 
soap jelly is useful in washing deli- 
cate fabrics, as silks, laces, and rib- 
bons, and also for the toilet. 

Or take a small spice can, fiit a 
round stick of wood inside to keep 
the can in shape, and perforate the 
bottom and top by driving nails 
through the can into the wood. Put 



SOAP AND SOAP MAKING 



199 



soap scraps in this and use as a soap 
shaker in washing dishes. 

tlses of Soap. — Common yellow soap 
will 

Stop a mouse hole effectually. 

Make bureau drawers and windows 
which are inclined to stick work 
smoothly. 

Take the pain from a burn. 

Cut up fine (a quarter of a bar) 
and dissolved in strong, hot borax 
water, clean plated silverware. Let 
soak two or three hours in the solu- 
tion, and little rubbing will be 
needed. 

Combined with brown sugar, bring 
painful swellings to a head, and will 
draw out a splinter from under the 
nail. 

Rubbed on a nail, prevent the wood 
through which it is driven from split- 



ting. It is often used by carpenters, 
who drive the nail through the bar 
of soap before using. 

Mixed with stove blacking, lessen 
the labor of applying and improve re- 
sult. 

Stop a leak in a boiler in emergency 
cases. 

Quickly remove the odor of perspi- 
ration. 

Serve as a substitute for wax to 
point darning yarn. 

The inner wrappers are useful to 
clean flatirons. 

Use Plenty of Each. — A bar of 
laundry soap, valued at five cents for 
the best, saved at the expense of an 
hour of the laundress's time, value 
eighteen cents, to say nothing of the 
wear and tear on clothes occasioned 
by the extra rubbing, is extravagance. 



CHAPTER VI 

WASH DAY 

THE LAUNDRY— LAUNDRY UTENSILS— NATURE OF THE PROCESS 
—WATER FOR THE LAUNDRY— LABOR-SAVING METHODS, WASH- 
ING FLUIDS, ETC.— COLORED GOODS— LACES AND LACE CUR- 
TAINS—SILKS AND SATIN— WOOLENS. WORSTEDS, AND FLAN- 
NELS—DRYING CLOTHES 



THE LATJNDEY 

The contrast between the piles of 
discarded garments and soiled table 
linen accumulated at the close of the 
week, and the same articles when 
ready to be stored away after having 
been perfectly laundered, is most 
striking; but all housekeepers know 
how difficult it is to bring about this 
transformation. 

If the washing is sent away, or a 
washerwoman is employed, it is sur- 
prising to find how many different 
ways there are of washing badly. 
Either the clothes are not clean, or 
they take on a yellow or blue tinge, 
or they are musty and lack the bright- 
ness and glossy whiteness of perfectly 
laundered articles, or they may even 
be rotted and entirely ruined. Those 
who do their own washing know that 
these difficulties may be overcome by 
painstaking and hard labor. On the 
other hand, those who are constantly 
seeking to find an easy method and 
try every one of the many labor-sav- 
ing plans recommended to them, often 
find that they have jumped out of the 
frying pan into the fire. 

There is probably no one "best 
way" of washing. Family tradition 
and local individual customs usually 
control the routine of wash day. In 
other words, most women do what 
their grandmothers have done, what 
their neighbors do, and what they 
have always been in the habit of do- 
ing. In many cases the result is, on 
the whole, satisfactory. We believe. 



however, that every woman who does 
her own washing or controls the work 
of her laundress will be benefited by 
knowing just what goes on in the 
washtub and the boiler, and just how 
results that are undesirable may be 
changed for those to be preferred. 
There will always be different ways 
of ordering the routine of wash day 
as long as women differ in their tastes 
and personal preferences. According- 
ly, we outline a number of methods 
and suggest many different ideas. If 
these are tried experimentally from 
time to time we believe that most 
women will find among them sugges- 
tions that they will wish to adopt 
permanently, and that in many cases 
will revolutionize wash day and make 
it comparatively free from discom- 
fort and hard labor. 

LAUNDRY UTENSILS 

Utensils for Washing. — The list of 
utensils for the laundry includes wash 
boiler, wringer, washboard, washing 
machine, three or four tubs, two or 
three pails, clothes stick, dipper, and 
large and small clothes baskets. Wood- 
en tubs and pails are the most com- 
mon, but those made of paper or wood 
pulp are to be preferred, as they are 
lighter and will not fall to pieces if 
allowed to dry. 

The Boiler. — The ordinary tin boil- 
ers are commonly used, but a copper 
or steel boiler enameled white on the 
inside and painted some suitable color 
outside is the best. Tubs and boilers- 



200 



WASH DAY 



201 



should be fitted with faucets to avoid 
lifting and the liability of accident 
in carrying hot suds from place to 
place. With good care a wash boiler 
should last a lifetime. Hence it is 
advisable to buy the best. 

The Wringer. — The principal cost 
of a wringer is in the rubber rollers, 
and it is true economy to buy an ar- 
ticle that has rolls made of pure rub- 
ber, and that may cost $5 or $6, 
rather than a cheap article having 




' VtensiU for the Laundry.' 



rollers made of a composition that 
will last but a short time. When the 
rollers begin to wear, wrap them 
round with straps of strong, un- 
bleached cotton cloth. This wiU 
lengthen their usefulness many years. 
Washing Machine. — ^We especially 
recommend the purchase of a good 
washing machine. Like the sewing 
machine this instrument has a very 
important bearing upon the welfare 
of the family by lessening the physical 
labor devolving upon the wife and 
mother, and thus saving much of her 
energy for the higher and more ele- 
vating duties of the household. We 
believe that any of the standard makes 
of washing machines are to be recom- 
mended in preference to the ordinary 
washboard, which is only a relic of 
barbarism. But we especially recom- 
mend the make which contains an in- 



ner cylinder in which the clothes are 
placed, and which is revolved in an 
outer cylinder containing water. This 
method tends to cleanse the clothes 
evenly and with the least possible 
wear. Other makes accomplish the re- 
sult by holding the clothes stationary, 
agitating the water, and squeezing the 
goods, very much after the fashion of 
the old-style clothes pounder; and 
still others revolve the garments in 
the tub by means of prongs, reversing 
the motion from time to time. The 
last method is perhaps the least satis- 
factory. When the • clothes are sud- 
denly stopped and sent backward by 
the reverse motion they are subjected 
to a considerable strain. But even 
this method wears out the garments 
far less than does rubbing on the 
washboard, and we strongly recom- 
mend some washing machine to every 
household. If the clothes are first 
boiled with soap and kerosene, or 
other good washing fluid, they can be 
run through the washer in about five 
minutes. Colored clothes cannot, of 
course, be boiled, and will require a 
longer time to wash. 

Small Utensils. — A small toy wash- 
board is useful for washing dish tow- 
els, hand towels, handkerchiefs, hose, 
and light neckwear; also to take to 
simimer resorts on vacations, as laun- 
dry bills in these places are always 
considerable. A small flatiron is also 
useful for ironing ruffles, puflSngs, or 
laces. Both these articles can be put 
in the trunk, and the iron can be 
heated over an alcohol lamp and used 
to press ribbons and neckwear. A 
S-gallon lard can, which can be pur- 
chased for 25 cents, is u useful sub- 
stitute for a boiler in washing small 
articles that are too dainty to put in 
the regular wash. 

Or small articles may be inclosed in 
cloth bags before being put in the 
wash boiler. 

NATUEE or THE PEOCESS 

Objects of Washing. — Dirt has been 
described as " matter which is out of 
place." The substances which soil 



202 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



garments and household linen are un- 
objectionable in their proper places, 
but become dirt when transferred to 
wearing apparel and linen, and re- 
quire to be removed by washing. These 
substances are principally of three 
classes; fruit, acids, ink, and other 
things which produce stains; animal 
oils, grease, or fats from the oily exu- 
dations from the body in perspira- 
tion; or, in the case of table linen, 
from foods or from other sources; 
and particles of earth and other sol- 
ids, either mixed with grease, or caught 
in the texture of the fabric. Stains 
require special treatment according to 
the nature of the substance which pro- 
duces them; greasy substances, as oils 
or fats, require to be decomposed by 
the use of an alkali, in soaps or oth- 
erwise; and particles of earth and 
other substances, when set free from 
the grease in which they are usually 
imbedded, may be removed by the 
mechanical operations of rubbing and 
rinsing. Aside from stains, the most 
difScult part of washing is tlie decom- 
position, without injury to the fab- 
rics, of greasy substances by the ac- 
tion of an alkali. Unless this point 
is clearly understood, good results in 
washing will come rather from good 
luck than from good management. 

The means employed to remove dirt 
on fabrics are soaking, boiling, rub- 
bing, and rinsing, with the use of an 
alkali either in soaps or in the various 
preparations known as washing pow- 
ders and washing fluids. 

Soaking. — The object of soaking 
garments is to soften the dirt and 
loosen it by swelling the fabric. There 
is no objection to soaking the clothes 
in pure soft water for a reasonable 
time, but soaking them over night in 
water with soap and washing fluids or 
powders is not advisable. The first 
effect of the alkali contained in soap 
is to soften the greasy substances 
which cause dirt to adhere to the fab- 
ric, and to render them soluble in 
water. But if these substances are 
not immediately removed by washing 
and rinsing, another chemical action 
takes place which produces compounds 



that, while not always visible to the 
eye, are very much more difficult to 
remove. This is especially likely to 
be the case if soap or other deter- 
gents are used which contain much 
alkali. The result is often to give 
the clothes a heavy or musty smell 
and a dingy appearance after iron- 
ing. Instead, try soaking the gar- 
ments for about twenty minutes in 
boiling water containing borax. 

Or rub soiled articles with a piece 
of wet soap on the morning of wash 
day and soak in cold water for about 
two hours before washing. 

If clothes are soaked over night 
use pure soft water only, without 
any soap or other washing com- 
pounds. If not, put the clothes to 
soak in cold soft water the very 
first thing in the morning while the 
wash water is heating and breakfast 
is being prepared, first rubbing soiled 
articles, especially the greasy spots, 
with a piece of wet soap before put- 
ting them in the water. 

Rubbing. — Rubbing is, of course, 
merely a mechanical operation, but it 
assists the action of soap and washing 
compounds by removing the greasy 
substances that have been decomposed 
by the alkali and by bringing what 
remains into contact with the alkaline 
suds. 

Right here note a helpful labor- 
saving device. Instead of rubbing 
the clothes in the usual way, lay 
the washboard across the top of the 
tub and apply soap to them with a 
scrubbing brush having rather stiff 
bristles. Use the brush especially for 
the neck, wristbands, and other spots 
which are especially soiled or greasy. 
This cleanses them much more quick- 
ly than rubbing in the usual manner, 
besides being easier for the laundress 
and much less detrimental to the gar- 
ment. This method is especially help- 
ful for men's overalls, heavy blankets, 
and other coarse articles that are dif- 
ficult to clean. Put the clothes through 
a wringer into the second tub and 
wash again, looking them over care- 
fully for dirty spots. 

Boiling. — Boiling is also a mechan- 



WASH DAY 



203 



ical process, as the steam passing 
through the garments agitates them 
and loosens the particles of dirt con- 
tained in their texture. Boiling water 
and steam also increase the activity 
of the alkali in attacking and decom- 
posing the grease. 

Laundry — Binsing. — Rinsing is a 
mechahical operation for removing 
the excess of soap, with the dirt, glyc- 
erin, ana other impurities that have 
been released by the action of the 
washing compounds. 

These processes should be firmly 
fixed in mind, and the nature and 
properties of soap and other cleansing 
compounds should be fully understood 
by all who wish to obtain satisfactory 
results in wasliing. 

The principal object of rinsing 
clothes is to remove the excess of 
soap. Hence they must be thor- 
oughly rinsed until all the suds dis- 
appear from the water. If plenty 
of hot water can be had it should be 
used for the first rinsing, as the soap 
contained in the garment wUl dissolve 
in hot water much more readily than 
in cold. It is customary, however, to 
lift the clothes from the boiler direct- 
ly into a tub of cold rinsing water, 
rinse thoroughly, wring out into a 
second rinsing water, and continue 
rinsing until all trace of soap disap- 
pears. If any soap is left in the gar- 
ments it will imite with the bluing 
and make the clothes yellow. After 
the filial rinsing and bluing the arti- 
cles must be wrung out, rolled in bun- 
dles, and sorted, starched pieces 
being placed in one basket and un- 
starched ones in another, and hung 
up to dry at once. It is a good idea 
to first spread a large, clean cloth in 
the bottom of the basket. 

Plan for Wash Day. — ^The following 
routine is especially recommended: 
get up at daylight and get the wash- 
ing out of the way as early as possi- 
ble. It is surprising how much can 
be accomplished early in the morning 
before the regular routine of the day 
begins. 

First Boiling. — Next fill the boiler 
with clear soft water, or if the water 



is hard, add borax to soften it. Put 
it on the stove and bring to a boil. 
Rinse out the tubs with hot water 
and soap to remove any dust that 
may havie accumulated. When the 
clothes have been well soaked, run 
them through a wringer or wring 
them out lightly by hand, put them 
in tubs half filled with hot water from 
the boiler, and rub on the washboard, 
using plenty of soap. Or use the 
washing machine. 

Second Boiling, — Run them again 
through the wringer and put them in 
a boiler with cold water over the fire. 
The articles may be rubbed separate- 
ly with soap as they come from the 
wringer before being placed in the 
boiler, or shaved hard soap or other 
washing compounds may be dissolved 
in the water in which the clothes are 
boiled. If washing fluids or powders 
are used care must be taken to dis- 
solve them in the water before the 
clothes are put in, as otherwise they 
may settle in the folds of the fabrics 
and eat holes in them with the excess 
of alkali they contain. Let the clothes 
come to a boil, pressing them down 
occasionally with a clothes stick. The 
first boiler should contain the first 
sorting of fine linen, and while these 
are coming to a boil the second sort- 
ing may be in the process of rubbing. 
The boiler should be emptied and re- 
filled with cold water every time a 
new lot is put in. Clothes should be 
lifted from the boiler with a clothes 
stick, held up to drain slightly, and 
placed in a tubful of clear, cold rins- 
ing water, 

WATEE FOR THE lATJlTDEY 

laundry Water Supply. — All water 
for laundry purposes must be soft or 
else the clothes cannot be made clean. 
Hard water that contains lime and 
other mineral substances, or that is 
brackish from its vicinity to the sea, 
will cause the soap to curdle and 
float on its surface. In limestone 
regions and other localities where the 
water is hard, perhaps the best meth- 
od is to collect rain water in a cis- 



204 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



tern or rain-water barrel, but hard 
water can be softened in various ways 
for laundry purposes. 

To Test Water. — To find out wheth- 
er or not water is fit for laundry pur- 
poses, dissolve a little good white soap 
in alcohol and put a few drops of this 
solution into a glassful of water. If 
the water is pure the soap solution 
will be dissolved and the water will 
continue limpid, but if it is impure 
the soap will form into white flakes 
which will tend to float on the sur- 
face. 

To Soften Hard Water. — Bring the 
water to a boil and expose it to the 
air, which may be done by pouring 
it from some little height into a tub 
or other vessel, and afterwards letting 
it stand over night. 

Or boil it with the addition of a 
little baking soda, and afterwards ex- 
pose it to the air. 

Or place a quantity of clean wood 
ashes in a tightly closed woolen bag 
and immerse the bag in a tub of 
water. The required amount of ashes 
can be ascertained by experiment. 

Or use chalk, which may be put 
into the spring or well or used in a 
tub or bucket, the proper amount de- 
pending upon the extent of the im- 
purities, and to be determined in each 
locality by experiment. 

Or add a small quantity of borax 
or potash or soda lye, but care must 
be taken not to use too much, as oth- 
erwise the alkali they contain will in- 
jure the fabrics. 

Or add 1 to 2 tablespoonfuls of 
quicklime to each tubful of water. 
Slake the lime with a little warm 
water, stirring it to a cream, pour 
it into a tubful or boilerful of water, 
and let stand over night or long 
enough to settle to the bottom. Pour 
off the clear water, taking care not to 
disturb the sediment. 

Rain-water Barrel. — A cask to hold 
rain water should be provided with a 
hinged lid or other cover to prevent 
dust and dirt from getting in, and to 
keep out insects that would use it as 
a breeding place. It should be raised 
above the ground by stone or brick, 



and be furnished with a spigot to 
draw off the water for use. 

To Cleanse Soapsuds. — The water 
supply in some localities is exceed- 
ingly limited, and periods of drought 
sometimes occur when it is almost im- 
possible to obtain sufficient water for 
laundry purposes. Under such cir- 
cumstances a tubful or boilerful of 
water may be made to serve for an 
entire washing by cleansing it when 
necessary. This may be done by dis- 
solving a teaspoonful of powdered 
alum in half a cup of boiling water 
and stirring it into a tub or wash 
boiler of soapsuds. The soap will 
curdle and sink with the other im- 
purities to the bottom, leaving the 
water entirely clear and free from 
odor. The clear water may then be 
poured off, taking care not to disturb 
the sediment, and used again. 

XABOE-SAVIITG METHODS, WASHING 
FLTTIDS, ETC. 

Certain compounds added to the 
water in which the clothes are boiled 
are recommended as labor savers. 
Washing fluids and powders contain 
two kinds of ingredients: volatile sub- 
stances, such as kerosene, turpentine, 
alcohol, ammonia, and camphor gum; 
and alkaline substances, as potash and 
soda lyes from wood ashes, sal soda, 
and various brands of commercial lye. 
These powerful chemicals must be used 
with the most intelligent caution. 

First Caution. — If the hands and 
arms are immersed in hot water con- 
taining turpentine, alcohol, ammonia, 
camphor, and similar substances, these 
are absorbed through the pores of the 
skin and may seriously imperil the 
health. Paralysis is said to some- 
times result from this cause. Hence 
it is best to use these compounds 
only in the boiler, and to take the gar- 
ments out of the first rinsing water 
with the clothes stick, especially if 
hot water is used, rather than to im- 
merse the arms therein. 

When turpentine has been used in 
the boiling water the clothes must be 
very thoroughly rinsed, as if any of 



WASH DAY 



&0H 



it remains in garments worn next the 
skin it may cause mischief. 

Second Caution. — Substances that 
are strong in alkali, as potash and 
soda lyes and the like, are powerful 
cleansers, but clothes should not be 
allowed to lie in water that contains 
them for any length of time. If they 
are used in the boiling water the 
clothes must be boiled for a limited 
time and immediately removed and 
rinsed thoroughly. The alkali, as has 
jilready been explained, continues its 
action after decomposing greasy sub- 
stances and attacks the fabrics them- 
selves. It is injurious to the skin if 
not thoroughly rinsed from under- 
wear. 

Third Caution. — All washing pow- 
ders should be thoroughly dissolved 
in the boiling water before the gar- 
ments are added, so that the alkali 
and other ingredients may be present 
in equal strength in all parts of the 
water. If these compounds are add- 
ed after the clothes have been put in 
they may settle in spots in the folds 
of the garments and eat into the fab- 
ric. 

Washing Fluids. — Most washing 
fluids amount to neither more nor less 
than potash or soda lye. In other 
words, they are liquids containing an 
excess of free alkali. Their use is 
quite customary on the ground that 
they do the work quickly and well 
and save labor, but they are open to 
the objection that unless used with 
great caution they tend to rot the 
clothes and to roughen and chap the 
hands and arras of the laundress. 
They are, at best, only suitable for 
the coarser articles, and it is probable 
that their constant use weakens any- 
thing which they are employed to 
clean. 

Caustic Soda lye. — A common fam- 
ily recipe for washing fluid is caustic 
soda lye. Dissolve 1 pound of sal 
soda in 1 gallon of boiling water. 
Slake separately 8 ounces of fresh 
quicklime in 2 quarts of water. Bring 
the soda solution to a boil, pour in 
the slaked lime in a thin stream, stir- 
ring constantly, and let the mixture 



stand over night. Pour off the clear 
lye, taking care not to disturb the 
sediment, and preserve in glass bot- 
tles or stone jugs. When this fluid is 
used it is customary to soak the 
clothes over night in clear watei, 
wring them out, and soap the soiled 
places. The boiler is then half filled 
with water which is brought to a boil 
and 1 teacupful of this fluid is stirred 
in thoroughly, after which the clothes 
are added and boiled for half an hour, 
when they can be cleaned with very 
little rubbing. The injury that the 
lye may do the fabric is not likely to 
be noticed as a result of a single 
washing, and the gradual weakening 
of the garment is likely to be attrib- 
uted to ordinary wear. Hence it is 
often asserted that this and other 
washing fluids can be used without 
rotting ordinary fabrics. But the in- 
jury, though slight, is certain. At aU 
events, if such fluids are used the 
greatest care must be taken not to let 
garments lie long in the suds, to rinse 
them very thoroughly in two or three 
waters and hang them out as quickly 
as possible. This washing fluid may 
be used in hot water for scrubbing 
floors, removing grease spots, and 
cleaning greasy pots, kettles, and the 
like. But care must be taken not to 
use it on tinware or aluminum or 
strong enough to injure the hands. 

Caustic Potash lye. — The basis of 
another class of washing fluids fre- 
quently recommended is potash lye, 
which is perhaps even more injurious 
than caustic soda lye, requiring the 
same cautions and being open to the 
same objections. The addition of 
various other ingredients, as borax, 
ammonia, and the like, may be re- 
garded as beneficial, as they tend to 
increase the cleansing properties of 
the fluid, and thus lessen the amount 
of pure lye necessary to do the work. 

Put J pound of concentrated lye in 
an earthenware jar or iron kettle and 
pour over it 1 gallon of cold water. 
Stir with a wooden stick until dis- 
solved, and let stand until cold. Dis- 
solve, each in a separate vessel, J 
pound of borax, J pound of salts of 



206 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



tartar, and J poiind of lump am- 
monia (not aqua ammonia), using in 
each case as little water as possible. 
After the solution of lye is cold, pour 
into it each of the other solutions in 
a thin stream, stirring constantly, 
pour the mixture into large glass bot- 
tles or earthenware jugs, and cork 
tightly. Use this washing fluid in the 
proportion of 1 or 3 tablespoonfuls 
to each pailful of water. In all cases 
dissolve it in the wash boiler before the 
clothes are put in, for if the clothes 
are put in first and the washing fluid 
afterwards, it will be stronger in some 
places than others, and be more likely 
to injure the garments. 

Or put 1 pound of crude potash in 
an earthenware j ug and pour over it 1 
gallon of soft water. When cold stir in 
i ounce of sal ammoniac and J ounce 
of saltpeter previously dissolved in a 
little soft water. Use this fluid at the 
rate of 1 pint to 6 or 8 gallons of water. 

Or dissolve separately J pound of 
sal soda and J pound of potash lye, 
each in 2 quarts of water. Mix the 
two together and pour into a gallon 
jug. Use a teacupful to a bollerful 
of water. 

Or put 1 can of potash lye in an 
earthenware jar, pour over it 2 gal- 
lons of cold water, and add 1 pound 
of borax and 1 pint of liquid am- 
monia. Pour into stone jugs and cork 
tightly. Use a teacupful to each boil- 
er, and also half a bar of soap shaved 
fine. 

Washing Fluids with Turpentine. 
— Turpentine as a washing fluid, with 
or without other ingredients, as cam- 
phor, alcohol, ammonia, and the like, 
is often recommended, but unless 
great caution is observed it is very 
likely to be injurious. These sub- 
stances, especially turpentine and al- 
cohol, open the pores of the skin and 
thus expose a person to the liability 
of taking cold in hanging out the 
clothes. Their frequent use is also 
debilitating. Hence these substances 
should not be used when washing is 
done by hand. They are only per- 
missible where the clothes are pound- 
ed in the old-fashioned way, or the 



work is done by a washing machine. 
Even breathing the fumes of turpen- 
tine in the steam of the laundry may 
be dangerous under certain circum- 
stances, and, on the whole, these reci- 
pes should be used only with the 
greatest caution. Clothes washed with 
turpentine should be rinsed very thor- 
oughly to remove all traces of it be- 
fore being worn, as otherwise it will 
be injurious to the skin. ' 

To a boUerful of hot water add IJ 
bars of hard soap shaved fine, 1 table- 
spoonful of spirits of turpentine, and 
1 teaspoonful of aqua ammonia; bring 
to a boil and stir until all are dis- 
solved before putting in the clothes. 

Or, in addition to the soap, use 
1 tablespoonful of spirits of turpen- 
tine and 1 tablespoonful of powdered 
borax. 

Or to 6 or 8 gallons of water add 1 
pound of hard soap shaved fine, J 
ounce of spirits of turpentine, and J 
oimce of aqua ammonia. 

Or 1 tablespoonful of kerosene and 

1 tablespoonful of turpentine. 

Or, for a washing flmd, shave 2 
pounds of hard white or yellow soap 
into a saucepan, pour over it 1 quart 
of soft water, and melt with gentle 
heat, stirring frequently. Stir in 1 
tablespoonful of white-wine vinegar, 

2 tablespoonfuls of aqua ammonia, 
and 6 tablespoonfuls of spirits of tur- 
pentine. Pour into large glass bottles 
or stone jugs and cork tightly to pre- 
vent evaporation. Use this fluid at 
the rate of 2 tablespoonfuls to 6 or 8 
gallons of the water in which the 
clothes are soaked, and the same 
quantity in the wash boiler. 

To whiten clothes take spirits of 
turpentine, 1 tablespoonful; powdered 
borax, 1 tablespoonful. Mix well and 
use in the water in which the clothes 
are boiled. 

Or first soap the water in which the 
clothes are to be boiled, then add the 
following: spirits of turpentine, 1 
tablespoonful ; aqua ammonia, 1 table- 
spoonful. Housekeepers who have used 
this washing fluid value it highly. 

Washing Fluids with Sal Soda. — 
Dissolve i pound of sal soda and i 



WASH DAY 



20T 



pound of borax in 1 gallon of boiling 
soft water. Add 2 . gallons of cold 
soft water and 1 ounce of gum cam- 
phor dissolved in J pint of alcohol. 
Stir well and put in corked bottles or 
fruit jars. Add 4 teaspoonfuls of 
this preparation to 1 pint of soft soap 
or 1 bar of hard soap cut into fine 
shavings, and dissolve the whole in a 
boilerful of hot water before putting 
in the clothes. 

Or dissolve J pornid of washing 
soda and J pound of borax in 4 
quarts of boiling soft water. When 
cold add J teacupful of aqua am- 
monia and pour into corked bottles 
or fruit jars. Dissolve in the wash 
boiler in the proportion of 1 teacupful 
to 1 pailful of water before the clothes 
are put in. 

Or dissolve 1 pound of sal soda and 
i pound of quicklime in 6 quarts of 
boiling water. When the mixture has 
settled, pour off and bottle the clear 
liquid, which is soda lye. This is a 
very powerful washing fluid. One 
cupful is added to a boilerful of hot 
water containing 1 pint of soft soap 
or 1 pound of hard soap cut in shav- 
ings wUl thoroughly cleanse and bleach 
the clothes. This fluid tends to bright- 
en rather than to fade the colors of 
calico and colored flannels. The clothes 
must not be allowed to lie in the 
water. The boiling, sudsing, rinsing, 
and bluing must follow each other in 
rapid succession until the clothes are 
hung on the line, which should be by 
ten o'clock in the morning. 

Dissolve in 1 gallon of cold soft 
water 1 pound of concentrated lye 
and 2 oimces each of powdered am- 
monia (muriate of ammonia) and salts 
of tartar. Preserve in glass bottles 
or fruit jars, tightly corked. Use a 
cupful of this fluid with a bar of soap 
and boU IS minutes. 

Or make a saponaceous lye by boil- 
ing 1 gallon of wood ashes in suf- 
ficient soft water to dissolve the ashes, 
then add 3 or 3 handfuls of fresh 
quicklime. Mix thoroughly while boil- 
ing and afterwards cool until the sed- 
iment settles. Draw off the pure 
water and add 1 pint of oil or melted 



grease strained through cheese cloth 
for each 30 quarts of this liquid. 
Ashes from hard wood are the best, 
but if the ashes do not contain a suf- 
ficient amount of alkali a small 
amount of potash or soda may be 
added. The result should be a milk- 
white liquor. Use 1 cupful to a boil- 
erful of water with 1 pound of shaved 
hard soap. 

Or this composition, used by the 
French: hard soap, 1 pound; water, 
6 gallons; spirits of turpentine, i 
ounce; aqua ammonia, i ounce. Mix 
well and bottle ready for use. 

Or brown soap, 3 pounds. Cut it 
up and put it into a clean pot, adding 
1 quart of clear soft water. Set over 
the fire and melt thoroughly, stir- 
ring it up from the bottom occasion- 
ally. Take from the fire and stir in 
real white vinegar, 1 teaspoonf ul ; aqua 
ammonia, 2 large teaspoonfuls; spirits 
of turpentine, 7 large teaspoonfuls. 
Stir all well together, put the mixture 
immediately into a stone jar, and cov- 
er without delay so that the ammonia 
will not evaporate. Keep it closely 
covered. 

Washing Powders. — Commercial 
washing powders, such as pearling, 
soapine, and the like, are said by 
chemists to be composed of hard 
white soap ground to powder and 
mixed with pulverized sal soda in ap- 
proximately equal parts. Hence they 
are liable to the same objections as. 
sal soda, which is well known to con- 
tain an excess of alkali. They are, 
however, useful for dishwashing, scrub- 
bing, and many other purposes. They 
can be made at home much more 
cheaply than they can be purchased. 

To make washing powder, melt in 
a double boiler 1 ounce of good white 
glue in 1 gallon of hot water to make 
a thin glue size. Mix equal parts of 
granulated soda ash with granulated 
sal soda, pulverizing them into grains 
about the size of coarse sand by 
means of a rolling pin. Pour over 
this mixture the solution of glue, or 
use instead pure linseed oil and stir 
until the mass forms a stiff, thick 
paste. Spread out the whole on a 



208 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



table top or other flat surface in a 
warm room to dry. 

Or, instead of the solution of glue, 
use a solution of 1 pint of linseed oil 
to 1 gallon of water. 

Soap Jelly. — Dissolve 1 teaspoonful 
of any good washing powder in a 
cupful of hot water, or dissolve any 
desired quantity of shaved hard white 
or yeUow soap in twice its own bulk 
of hot water, using a double boiler. 
Use instead of soft soap for delicate 
fabrics. 

Kerosene for Washing. — This is a 
favorite labor-saving article in many 
households. Use for each boilerful of 
water 1 pound of good hard soap in 
shavings and 1 teaspoonful of kero- 
sene to each pail of water, or about 
3J tablespoonfuls for a wash boiler 
two thirds full of water. Should it 
be necessary to add more water after 
the first or second boiling, put in J 
pound of shaved soap and 1 table- 
spoonful more of kerosene. This mix- 
ture will not injure fabrics and will 
evaporate when the clothes are laun- 
dered so as to leave no odor. When 
kerosene is used very little rubbing 
will be required. 

Special Hints. — ^When rinsing large 
linen pieces, as sheets, tableclotlis, and 
large towels, gather the middle of the 
piece into the hand and souse the 
edges in the water several times. This 
leaves the selvage smooth and ready 
for the iron. 

If a little cooked starch is put into 
the rinsing water it will add just 
enough stiffness to launder properly 
and wiU give to old linen the appear- 
ance of new. 

A little pipe clay dissolved in the 
water in which the linens are washed 
will assist in cleansing the more 
soiled articles, and also in giving 
them the appearance of having been 
bleached. 

The addition of a teaspoonful of 
paraffin will assist in removing stains. 

A small vegetable brush may be 
used to apply soap and water to the 
spots on the coarser linens, and a nail- 
brush is convenient to use on the deli- 
cate fabrics. 



Fine cotton goods, as lawns, cam- 
brics, and muslins, should not be 
washed with linen, especially un- 
bleached linen, as the latter has a 
tendency to discolor them. 

Delicate dresses of lawn, muslin, 
cambric, and print goods should not 
be boiled or rubbed with soap. They 
should be washed in tepid water in 
which soap has been previously dis- 
solved, rinsed quickly, and dried in 
the shade. 

A quart of bran sewed into a tight 
bag and boiled in the wash boiler 
will assist in cleansing delicate gar- 
ments. 

The addition of a handful of salt 
helps to set the colors of light cam- 
brics and dotted lawns. 

A little beef gall will brighten yel- 
low, purple, or green tints. 

Handkerchiefs. — Handkerchiefs 
used by persons who have affections 
of the nose, throat, and lungs, as 
grippe, catarrh, bronchitis, and the 
Uke, should not be put in laundry 
bags or clothes hampers containing 
the family wash. The easiest and 
most sanitary method of handling 
these articles is to keep for the pur- 
pose a large tin or enameled-ware pan 
containing a strong solution of com- 
mon salt. Drop the handkerchiefs into 
this, place the pan on the stove when 
clear from cooking, and bring to a 
boil. They may now be rinsed with 
clean water and put into the rest of 
the laundry, or the pan may be filled 
with boiling water containing a table- 
spoonful of any good washing pow- 
der, the handkerchiefs returned to it 
and boiled from twenty minutes to 
half an hour, then removed, rinsed, 
and laid aside for ironing. 

To Wash Corsets. — Choose a clear, 
sunny day; make a strong solution of 
good soapsuds and a small amount of 
ammonia, spread the corsets on a 
clean board or table and scrub with 
a good stiff brush until thoroughly 
clean. Apply clear water in the same 
way to rinse them and hang immedi- 
ately in the sun. Do not wring out. 
Let them drip dry, and the shape will 
not be changed. 



WASH DAY 



209 



Or make good warm suds, lay the 
corsets on a washboard and scrub 
thoroughly on both sides with a stiff 
brush. Then scald a little, rinse thor- 
oughly, starch slightly, and dry. When 
ironed they look much better than 
when rubbed on a washboard. 

Special Pieces. — In addition to the 
regular wash day it is often advisable 
to lay aside small muslins, laces, rib- 
bons, and other delicate articles to be 
washed at other times when they can 
have special attention, rather than to 
put them into the weekly wash. Blan- 
kets and other heavy articles can also 
be washed to better advantage by 
thenjselves, and in the season when 
the days are long and bright. 

GOLOBED GOODS 

Care for Colored Goods. — All col- 
ored goods, especially light dress goods 
having delicate colors, as colored lin- 
ens, muslins, lawns, or cambrics; and 
prints, as chintz, ginghams, and cali- 
coes, require special care in washing. 
They must be handled separately from 
other articles, and in many respects 
it is better to ihake a, special job of 
washing fine colored goods on another 
day than the regular wash day. Care 
must be taken in washing colored 
goods that the colors do not soak out 
or run. This may be prevented in 
two ways: by a special process in 
washing, different from the method of 
washing white goods, and by the ad- 
dition of various substances to the 
washing or rinsing water to set the 
colors. 

Cautions for Colored Goods. — The 
best general caution for handling col- 
ored goods is to avoid extremes of 
heat or cold, to avoid hard wringing, 
and to wash and do them up as quick- 
ly as possible. They must not be 
soaked or otherwise delayed in wash- 
ing, boiled, scalded, or exposed to di- 
rect sunlight or the heat of a very 
hot iron. No form of washing soda, 
soft soap, or washing powders or 
fluids containing free alkali should be 
employed. Use pure white or yellow 
neutral soap only for this purpose. 



Neither must they be allowed to 
freeze. 

To prevent the colors from running 
they may be set by adding certain sub- 
stances to the suds or rinsing water 
or both. 

Son'ts for Colored Goods. — Don't 
soak or soap colored goods over 
night. 

Don't boil them, don't wash in hot 
water, don't use washing fluids, wash- 
ing powders, or anything else con- 
taining the slightest particle of sal 
soda. 

Don't put them all into the tub at 
once. 

Don't let them lie any longer than 
necessary in the suds, rinsing water, 
or clothes basket. 

Don't hang them up to dry so that 
the right side will be exposed to the 
hot sun. 

Don't hang them in the sun at all if 
shade is available. 

Don't iron them with a very hot 
iron. 

To Wash Colored Goods. — Sort out 
the calicoes and other prints, colored 
linens, etc., and prepare suds with 
cold or lukewarm water and good 
hard white or yellow soap. Have at 
hand a tub of rinsing water contain- 
ing alum, oxgall, or other substances 
to set the colors. Wash each piece 
separately, commencing with the light- 
est in color, rinse, and wring it out 
as quickly as possible, leaving the re- 
maining pieces in a dry state. Wash 
all the colored articles as quickly as 
possible, turn them wrong side out, 
and hang them up to dry, if possible, 
in the shade. 

To Suds Colored Goods. — Prepare 
suds by shaving hard white soap in 
soft water at the rate of about half 
a bar to two pailfuls of water. Bring 
the water to a boil, remove from the 
fire, and allow it to cool until it will 
bear the hands comfortably. 

Do not rub soap on delicate colored 
goods. Wash the garments quickly. 
Put them in the water one at a time, 
and rub as little as possible; rather 
souse them up and down in the hot 
suds. If the suds become foul, pre- 



210 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



pare a fresh lather. Wash each gar- 
ment by itself as quickly as possible. 

To Wring Colored Goods. — ^Do not 
wring out delicate colored articles, but 
squeeze them gently as dry as possible 
between the hands. 

To Rinse Colored Goods. — Rinse In 
two or three clear rinsing waters, add- 
ing various ingredients, according to 
the goods, to set the colors. 

To Dry Colored Goods. — Select 
bright, clear weather to wash delicate 
and expensive colored garments, and 
when washed hang them to dry in the 
shade. The best goods will fade if 
hung in the sunshine. In freezing 
weather they may be dried indoors by 
the Are, as the colors wUl be irrep- 
arably injured if they are allowed to 
freeze. 

To Wash Calicoes. — An exception 
to the rule against soaking colored 
articles is found in the custom of 
soaking calicoes and other print goods 
in a strong solution of salt before 
washing. Authorities variously recom- 
mend soaking the articles in strong 
salt water for periods of half an hour 
to over night. We would recommend 
experimenting with a sample of the 
goods before soaking delicate or ex- 
pensive fabrics for a long period. 
First soak new calico garments in 
strong salt water. Dissolve 3 gills of 
salt in 1 gallon of hot water, not boil- 
ing. Put in the garments and soak 
until the colors are thoroughly set. 
The time required will vary accord- 
ing to the fabrics, and may be deter- 
mined by experimenting with sam- 
ples. We would recommend IS min- 
utes to a half hour as an average. 

Wash same as other colored goods, 
using alum or oxgall in the suds and 
salt in the rinsing water. Use alum 
preferably for green. 

Black calico may be washed in an 
infusion of potato starch. Peel two 
or three potatoes, scrape them, boil, 
and strain, washing the calico in the 
pure liquid. 

Or wash in an infusion of wheat 
bran as hereinafter suggested. 

Colored Goods — To Fix Their Color. 
— Substances recommended for fixing 



the colors of calicoes and other col- 
ored articles vary with the colors and 
the nature of the fabric. They in- 
clude oxgall, salt, infusion of hay, 
alum, and lemon juice or vinegar; for 
red articles, borax, and for black 
goods lye and black pepper. 

Of these, oxgall and salt are the 
most popular. The gall of an ox can 
be obtained from the butcher. It may 
be preserved by adding to it a hand- 
ful of salt, and keeping it corked 
tightly. A bottle of this preparation 
should be always kept on hand in the 
laundry. Use 1 teacupful to 5 gal- 
lons of water. 

Common salt may be used in the 
proportion of J cupful to 3 gallons 
of water; alum, 1 ounce to each gal- 
lon of water; borax, 1 tablespoonful 
to the gallon; vinegar or lemon juice, 
the same. Add these substances in 
the above proportion to both suds arid 
rinsing water. 

Or use a large tablespoonful of ox- 
gall in the suds and a teaspoonful of 
vinegar in each rinsing water. 

Or use alum in the suds and vine- 
gar in the rinsing water. 

Do not use both oxgall and alum. 

To Fix light, Solid Colors. — To 
permanently fix blue, slate, and stone 
colors in cotton fabrics, dissolve 1 
ounce of sugar of lead in 2J gallons 
of hot water. Stir with a wooden 
stick, and let stand until lukewarm. 
Immerse the garments in this solu- 
tion for 1 to 2 hours, and hang up 
to drip dry in the shade before wash- 
ing. Remember that sugar of lead is 
poisonous; hence, after being dried, 
these articles should be washed thor- 
oughly and rinsed in plenty of clear 
water. 

To Fix Dark, Solid Colors. — To fix 
black and other dark colors, dissolve 
3 cupfuls of salt in 2J gallons of 
water, immerse the articles until they 
are thoroughly saturated, and hang 
them up to drip dry in a shady place. 
Add a tablespoonful of salt to the 
rinsing water. 

Or, to prevent black goods and 
hosiery from turning brown, use very 
strong bluing in the water. For black 



WASH DAY 



211 



goods, also, add a teacupful of lye to 
each pailful of soapsuds in which the 
articles are washed. They must he 
washed quickly and the excess of lye 
thoroughly rinsed out in clear cold 
water to which salt has been added. 

Or, for black goods, prepare an in- 
fusion of 1 tablespoonful of powdered 
black pepper with sufScient water to 
cover the articles, and steep them in 
it for a half hour before washing. 

To Fix Pinks, neds, and Greens. — 
Vinegar is especially recommended 
for pink, red, or green goods to 
brighten the color; salt for black, 
blue, and green colors. Hence, to fix 
pink or green, add i cupful of strong 
vinegar to 2J gallons of water, im- 
merse the articles, and let them drip 
dry In the shade. 

To Fix Red or Scarlet. — For red or 
scarlet table napkins add 1 table- 
spoonfid of borax to each gallon of 
soapsuds when washing. 

To Fix Solid-colored Linens. — A 
strong infusion of common hay made 
by boiling the hay and straining off 
the clear liquor is recommended for 
French linens; black pepper, 1 tea- 
spoonful for each pailful of water, for 
gray and brown linens. 

To Wash Colored Goods with Bran. 
— Delicate lawn and muslin dresses, 
also chintz and cretonne, may be 
washed without soap in an infusion 
of wheat bran. This process cannot 
possibly harm the most delicate fab- 
rics. Boil 1 quart of wheat bran in 
3 quarts of water for about 15 min- 
utes, and strain off the clear liquor 
into the wash water. Boil the bran 
again for IS minutes in an equal 
quantity of water, and strain off the 
resulting infusion into the rinsing 
water. 

For the wash water add to the in- 
fusion of bran about an equal quan- 
tity of clear soft water. Add also, 
to set the colors, a tablespoonful of 
oxgall or a small lump of alum. Use 
no soap, as the bran itself possesses 
suflicient cleansing properties. Wash 
with as little rubbing and wringing as 
possible. 

Rinse first in the lukewarm bran 



water, adding salt, and afterwards in 
clear water containing a little gum 
arable. No starch will be required. 
The bran after having been strained 
may be fed to pigs or chickens. 

To Clean Colored Goods with Raw 
Potatoes. — Grate the potatoes to a 
fine pulp and mix with 1 pint of water 
for each pound of grated potato. Sift 
with a coarse sieve and let the liqmd 
settle until the starch accumulates at 
the bottom. The clear liquid remain- 
ing may be bottled for future use. To 
apply, lay a linen towel over the wash- 
board and spread the soiled garment 
upon it. Sponge with the clear liquid 
and afterwards rinse with clear cold 
water. 

LACES AND LACE CUBTAINS 

To Wash Lace. — To wash cotton or 
linen lace or embroidery prepare suds 
of hard white soap with hot water, to 
which add 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls of 
borax. If much soiled, boil the arti- 
cles in the suds before or after wash- 
ing, or both. Squeeze them with the 
hands or draw them through the fin- 
gers in the suds until clean, rinse in 
clear water, add to the last water 
about i teaspoonful of granulated 
sugar to 1 pint of water, and iron 
without starching. 

White Laces. — White linen and cot- 
ton laces and embroideries may be 
washed in soapsuds in the same man- 
ner as other delicate white goods, ex- 
cept that more care is required in 
their handling. To prepare these goods 
for the laundry, baste the small pieces, 
as doilies and smaller embroideries, 
Battenberg pieces, edging, and the 
like, on a piece of linen or cotton 
cloth larger than the lace. Take care 
to catch every point with basting 
thread. Several small articles can be 
basted on one large piece. After wash- 
ing, if the cloth is stretched, the lace 
will dry in perfect condition without 
ironing. Fine lingerie, as lace waists, 
etc., may be basted inside a pillow 
case or special cotton bag prepared 
with a draw string for this purpose, 
and need not be taken out from the 



212 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



time it is put into the first wash water 
until after it is hung on the line, dried, 
and ready to iron. This prevents the 
lace from being frayed or torn by 
buttons catching in it, etc. Lace edg- 
ing and other long pieces may be 
quickly basted on to a piece of cloth 
with the sewing machine by making 
the stitch long. 

Or, to prepare a long piece of lace 
for the laundry, it may be wound 
around a large glass bottle. First 
surround the bottle with a jacket of 
cotton or linen cloth sewed on. At- 
tach one end of the lace to this cloth 
jacket with basting thread, and roU 
the lace around it, overlapping care- 
fully as in bandaging. Catch the ends 
and edges through the cloth jacket 
with basting thread. 

To Soak Laces. — If lace is much 
soiled it may be soaked for an hour 
or more before washing in suds made 
of cold water and naphtha or curd 
soap. Do not use yellow soap or any 
form of washing compound which may 
contain free alkali. 

To Prepare Laces for the Wash. — 
First remove all stains, and if much 
soiled by perspiration wash in soap 
and cold water, rubbing the soUed 
spots gently between the fingers. Af- 
ter the stains have all been removed 
the lace may be washed in warm 
suds, and, if necessary, afterwards 
boiled. 

To Suds Laces. — Only the purest 
hard white curd soaps should be used 
for washing laces. Many persons save 
the scraps of fine castile and other 
toilet soaps, melt them with a small 
quantity of water in a double boiler, 
and make a soap jelly for use with 
these delicate fabrics. It is better to 
make soapsuds in a small kettle with 
soft water and fine soap in which to 
boil these articles than to put them 
in' the regular boiler. If they are not 
much soiled do not boil them, but 
bring the suds to a boil and pour over 
the laces, letting them soak until the 
water is cool enough to bear the 
hands. Wash as other fine goods, 
stripping between the hands as light- 
ly as possible and sousing up and 



down in the suds. Use two or more 
fresh suds if necessary. 

To Boil Laces. — Laces that are much 
soiled may be, if prepared and pro- 
tected in the above manner, boiled in 
soapsuds the same as other white 
goods. To boU laces rolled about a 
bottle, first saturate the lace with 
olive oil or sweet oil, prepare strong 
soapsuds, and stand the bottle up- 
right. Or the bottle may merely be 
dropped in vrith other articles. 

To Blnse and Dry. — Rinse laces 
thoroughly in clear water, pressing 
the water out of them with the hands 
and dry in the hot sun without re- 
moving from the cloth or bottle which 
protect them. 

Point Lace and Battenberg. — Point 
lace may be washed as other laces if 
very carefully basted to a piece of 
fine white flannel and another piece 
of flannel basted over it. Care must 
be taken to catch all the points, using 
very fine basting thread. After rins- 
ing, the flannel must be carefully 
stretched, and while still damp ironed, 
without removing the lace, until per- 
fectly dry. 

Or the professional method may be 
employed, which is as follows: stretch 




"Stretch the Ditck Out of Doors." 

the lace, face down, on a piece of 
clean white duck and carefully tack it 



WASH DAY 



213 



on, using very fine basting thread and 
taking pains to catch all the points. 
Stretch the duck tent fashion over a 
rod out of doors on a clear day. Make 
a lather of fine castile or curd soap 
and apply the soapsuds with a soft 
brush, as an old toothbrush or a nail- 
brush with soft bristles, or with a 
sponge, until it is thoroughly cleaned. 
Rinse by pouring over it water con- 
taining a little alum. Add a little 
bluing to the last rinsing water. Ap- 
ply thin starch or a solution of gum 
arable with a sponge, and when nearly 
dry lay a Turkish towel over the iron- 
ing board, put the duck on this with 
the lace underneath, and iron the 
duck. This is a perfectly safe meth- 
od and gives a polish which cannot 
be acquired in any other way. 

To Wash a White Lace Veil. — If 
not much soiled, first wash in cold 
water with castile or curd soap, squeez- 
ing between the fingers without rub- 
bing. When stains and spots have 
disappeared, squeeze gently from the 
cold water and pour over it the hot 
suds. Let stand until cool enough to 
bear the hands, and continue squeez- 
ing with the fingers until perfectly 
clean, changing the suds if necessary. 
If much soiled, put the veil in a cot- 
ton bag and boil ten or fifteen min- 
utes. Rinse in cold water with a little 
bluing, and starch vdth a thin solution 
of gum arable, rice water, or corn 
starch. Stretch to its original shape 
and spread over a linen towel stretched 
tent fashion out of doors, and in the 
bright sun if possible. Pull the edges 
out to their proper shape and fasten 
with pins. When nearly dry iron on 
a Turkish towel through a piece of 
flannel or linen cloth. 

To Wash Black lace. — Make suds 
of castile or other hard white soap 
and boiling water, and add a table- 
spoonful of oxgaU to set the color. 
Allow this to cool until it will bear 
the hand, then immerse the lace and 
cleanse by squeezing gently with the 
fingers. Rinse in two or more cold 
waters, adding salt to the first and 
bluing to the last. Starch with a thin 
solution of gum arable or common 



glue made by dissolving a piece of 
thin glue about an inch square in a 
quart of boiling water. Or use thin 
rice water or cornstarch. Lay over 
black silk or cambric stretched tent 
fashion, stretch, and pin the edges 
securely. When dry arrange face down 
on a Turkish towel, and iron through 
a thin cloth, following the pattern with 
the point of the iron. Use a warm, 
not hot, iron, as much heat will turn 
the lace rusty. 

To Sponge Black lace. — First dust 
the articles thoroughly and stretch, 
face down, over a piece of black goods, 
tacking down the edges with basting 
thread. Sponge with dilute ammonia 
and water. 

Or sponge with green tea. 

Or use borax water in the propor- 
tion of 1 teaspoonfid of borax to 1 
pint of soft water. 

Use, if convenient, an old black kid 
glove as a sponge. Press while still 
damp and without removing from the 
cloth to which it is basted. Lay the 
lace on a Turkish towel protected by 
a piece of dry black goods and iron 
through the protecting cloth on the 
wrong side, using a warm, not hot, 
iron. 

Or a long piece of lace may be 
wound about a bottle and put in a 
warm place to dry. Avoid the direct 
heat of the sun or of a hot stove or 
iron, as these tend to give black arti- 
cles a rusty appearance. 

lace Curtains — When To Launder 
Them. — Have a special day at house- 
cleaning time for lace curtains, doilies, 
dresser scarfs, and all articles of fancy 
work. These require suds made of 
fancy soap and more care in the laun- 
(>y than ordinary articles; hence they 
should be handled by themselves and 
given special treatment. After being 
done up they can be laid away until 
house cleaning is finished, and put up 
as each room is cleaned. 

To Air Lace Curtains. — ^Lace cur- 
tains may be cleaned easily and will 
not need washing so often if hung on 
the line on a clear day with a gentle 
breeze — not too windy — and dusted by 
the wind. Washing these articles is a 



214 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



delicate and difficult business, and they 
necessarily suffer more or less from 
the process. 

To Prepare Curtains for the Laun- 
dry. — Stitch a narrow piece of tape 
along the hem of net or lace curteiins 
before they go to the laundry. This 
keeps the curtain from pulling out of 
shape when ironed. Lay the curtains 
on an old sheet and brush them care- 
fully with a soft brush to remove the 
dust. Fold them separately as a table- 
cloth is folded, taking care to keep 
the edges perfectly together until the 
folds are about two feet square. Baste 
a strip of white muslin along the 
edges to keep the package in order 
and quilt slightly with basting thread. 
In this shape large curtains can be 
put into siids and cleaned with a 
pounder or otherwise. 

Or fold them carefully and insert 
in a pillowcase, running through them 
at intervals strong basting thread to 
keep them flat and prevent their 
bunching in the end of the case. 

Or they may be carefully gathered 
crosswise and tied loosely in a bunch 
by two or three cords at intervals. 
Wash like other fine white goods, first, 
if much soiled, soaking for an hour 
or more in soap and cold water, next 
rubbing gently between the hands in 
warm or hot soapsuds, and afterwards 
boiling in one or more hot suds ac- 
cording to their condition. Rinse first 
in hot water, afterwards two or three 
times in cold water, adding bluing to 
the last. Kerosene, ammonia, or tur- 
pentine may be used in the boiling 
water, but no washing powders that 
may contain free alkali. 

Or put the curtain in a large tin 
funnel with a wooden handle attached 
to it; work it through suds and rins- 
ing water in such a way that the water 
will pass through the curtain and out 
at the bottom of the funnel, removing 
the dirt by suction. This process will 
not injure the most delicate fabrics, 
no matter how long it may continue. 

Colored Curtains. — If there is any 
doubt about colors being fast, deli- 
cate-colored curtains may he. cleansed 
with gasoline. 



To Dry Curtains. — If curtains are 
dried out of doors, cover the line on 
which they are hung with one or more 
thicknesses of paper or throw over it 
a dry sheet. This will prevent the 
clothespin from marking the articles 
and keep them from being injured by 
the wind. 

Or, if the curtains are folded and 
basted together with muslin, dry them 
before taking them out of the folds. 

Or lay a blanket on the floor 
and spread the wet curtains on it, 
stretching them carefully. They wiU 
keep their place and dry without fas- 
tening. 

To Stretch Curtains. — A curtain 
stretcher is not used in most fanulies, 
and hence is something of a luxury. 
Sometimes two or three families in a 
neighborhood can combine to purchase 
one for their common use. As a sub- 
stitute lay a sheet or clean wrapping 
paper on the floor, stretch the cur- 
tains over this, and fasten by means 
of heavy pins called bank pins, which 
can be obtained at the stores. Use a. 
pin for each scallop, driving them in- 
to the floor with a tack hanuner. Lay 
other curtains over these, hooking 
them on the same pins, as is done on 
stretchers. Several curtains may be 
hooked on the same set of pins. The 
pins may be afterwards removed and 
used again. 

Or the curtains may be pinned to a 
sheet laid upon the carpet, two or 
three curtains by ^refuUy matching 
the scallops being pinned down at the 
same time. 

Or stretch a sheet on a quilting 
frame, and pin the curteiins to this. 

Or, while damp, hang the curtains, 
one at a time, on a curtain rod, and 
slip a heavy rod or curtain pole 
through the hem at the bottom. Stretch 
the curtains to their full width, and 
allow them to hang until dry. The 
weight of the rod at the bottom will 
stretch them sufficiently. 

SILKS AND SATIN 

To Launder Silks. — ^To wash silk 
drtsses and other garments, ribbons. 



WASH DAY 



215 



handkerchiefs, stockings, and the like, 
first rip apart made-up garments, 
shake, and brush thoroughly to free 
them from dust. Prepare soap jelly 
by cutting castUe or other good white 
hard soap into shavings, pour over it 
about double its own bulk of water, 
and dissolve by gentle heat. Have 
ready two or three tubs or pans and 
fill these partly full of hot water. 
Thus the washing and rinsing waters 
will cool alike and always be of ex- 
actly the same temperature. This is 
the great point to observe in washing 
all animal fibers, as silks or woolens. 

In the first receptacle dissolve 
enough soap jelly to make good suds, 
and let stand until the hands can be 
comfortably borne in the water. Wash 
each piece separately in the suds by 
sousing it up and down, raising it in 
one hand and stripping it through 
the fingers with the other. Continue 
this process until clean, but without 
creasing, wringing, or squeezing it. 
When washed clean, strip through the 
fingers to remove suds. If soiled spots 
do not come out, rub on a little soap 
jelly and immediately dip again into 
the suds. Change the suds if neces- 
sary. Rinse in clear water, following 
the same process as in washing, strip 
out the water between the fingers, or 
shake out the pieces without wring- 
ing, and iron at once without hanging 
up to dry. 

Or mix 6 ounces of strained honey 
with 4 ounces of soft-soap jelly made 
of castUe or other hard white soap, 
and add 1 pint of whisky. Rip apart 
made-up articles, spread the pieces 
flat on a smooth surface, and apply 
this mixture with a brush, rubbing 
lightly with the grain of the silk. 
Rinse in two or three clear waters, 
not too hot to bear the hands com- 
fortably, and without wringing, creas- 
ing, or folding the silk. Add a little 
sugar or a tablespoonful of honey to 
the last rinsing water. Iron at once. 

Or for delicate fabrics, as China 
silk, pongee, and similar dress goods, 
for each article, as a waist or sum- 
mer gown, put IJ pints of bran in a 
bag of white muslin, and pour over it 



sufficient boiling water to wash the 
garment. When the hands can be 
borne in it comfortably, squeeze the 
bag in the water to extract the solu- 
tion of bran. Add 1 or 3 teaspoon- 
fuls of powdered borax, wash, rinse 
in clear water, and iron at once. Use 
no starch, as the bran gives sufficient 
stiffness. 

To Wash Colored Silks. — The same 
cautions must be observed in washing 
colored silks as in the case of other 
colored goods, with the additional cau- 
tion that they must not be crushed, 
squeezed, or wrung when wet, or 
wrinkles may be formed which will 
not iron out. Prepare suds for silk 
by dissolving hard white soap in boil- 
ing water, and add oxgall or alum to 
set the colors. Allow the suds to cool 
until they will bear the hands, and 
immerse the silk in them. Lay the 
washboard across the tub, spread an 
old towel or piece of flannel over it, 
lay the silk flat on this, and apply the 
suds by rubbing gently with a soft 
cloth or a sponge, or a toothbrush or 
nailbrush having medium hard bris- 
tles. When the silk is clean apply 
cold water with the brush and after- 
wards souse in cold water containing 
salt. If the silk is of solid color, dis- 
solve a little dye the color of the silk 
in the rinsing water. If the color has 
faded this will restore it. Silk gar- 
ments rinsed in diluted dye water will 
come out nearly as fresh as new. 

To Wash White Silk. — Prepare suds 
as for other delicate white goods by 
using hard white soap, but no soda 
or washing compounds containing free 
alkali. Cleanse the silks by applying 
the soapsuds with a soft cloth or 
brush, rinse in cold water, partially 
dry in the sun, and while still damp 
iron between two cloths on the wrong 
side. 

To Wash Satin. — Satins may be 
washed in the same manner as silks, 
or sponge the way of the grain with 
a, weak solution of borax. 

To Wash Silk Stockings. — Prepare 
a lather and wash as other silk goods. 
For white stockings add a little blu- 
ing to the last rinsing water. For 



216 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



other tints add a little dye of the re- 
quired color. Stretch the stockings 
to their proper shape, and pin or 
baste them between two thicknesses of 
a clean linen towel. Stretch this tent 
fashion, and the stockings will dry in 
their natural shape without ironing. 
Or wash in bran water. 

WOOLENS, WOBSTEDS, AND FLAN- 
NELS 

To Wash Woolen Goods and Flan- 
nels. — Washing woolen goods and 
flannels without shrinking them or 
causing them to lose their natural 
softness and delicate colors is one of 
the best tests of the skillful lauin- 
dress. 

Cautions for Woolen Goods. — ^Wool- 
en and flannel goods must not be 
soaked, boiled, scalded, or wrung out 
by twisting. They must not be dried 
near a hot fire. The fibers of wool 
are hooked and curled, and when they 
are crushed together by rubbing they 
form knots, which thicken the fiber 
and shrink it in both dimensions. This 
is one of the principal causes of the 
shrinking that is so much feared. Or 
the expansion and contraction caused 
by alternate heat and cold may cause 
the fibers to interlace. Flannels may 
be shrunk, if desired, before they are 
made up by first placing them in cold 
and afterwards in hot water. But 
they can be washed without shrinking 
if proper precautions are observed. 

To Suds Woolens and Flannels. — 
Prepare suds by dissolving 1 bar of 
hard white soap shaved fine in a boil- 
erful of water and adding 3 table- 
spoonfuls of aqua ammonia. Do not 
use yellow soap which contains borax 
or soda in any form, or washing fluids 
and powders of the composition of 
which you know nothing. Pour the 
suds into a tub and allow them to be- 
come cool enough to bear the hands 
comfortably before putting in the 
flannels. Wash these articles one at 
a time as quickly as possible. Do not 
rub soap on them or rub them on the 
washboard. Souse them up and down 
in the water and rub them together 



with the hands until cleaned. Do not 
put them through the wringer or 
wring by twisting, but squeeze out 
the soapsuds with the hands, shake 
out carefully, stretch, and wash in a 
second lather prepared like the first, 
but not so strong. Rinse in warm 
water as near the temperature of the 
suds as possible, to which a little 
bluing may be added, press out the 
rinsing water, shake vigorously, and 
stretch the articles to prevent shrink- 
ing. 

Pull each piece as nearly as possi- 
ble into its proper shape and hang 
up carefully in such a way that the 
shape may be preserved. A clear, 
bright day with sunshine and a light 
breeze is desirable. Flannels should 
be taken down while still slightly 
damp and roUed up in a dry cloth. 
If the weather is not clear they may 
be dried indoors, but not near the 
stove. The object should be to avoid 
extreme changes of temperature, as 
these cause flannels to shrink and be- 
come hard. 

To Wash Colored Woolens and 
Flannels. — ^Wash colored woolens and 
flannels same as other colored goods, 
adding oxgall or alum to the suds to 
set the colors, and salt or vinegar, or 
both, to the rinsing water. Omit the 
use of ammonia or borax. Dry deli- 
cate colored flannels in the shade. 

To Wash Colored Woolen Dress 
Goods. — Cashmere, merino, alpaca, 
and llama dresses and colored worst- 
ed and flannel waists and blouses may 
be washed in suds prepared as for 
other colored woolen goods, provid- 
ed the same cautions are observed. 
Do not soak, boil, or scald any woolen 
goods. Do not use any form of soda, 
lye, or unknown washing fluids or pow- 
ders. Do not use borax or ammonia for 
delicate colored articles. Use pure 
neutral white or yellow soap shaved 
and dissolved in boiling water until 
it will bear the hands comfortably, 
and keep the suds and rinsing water 
at the same lukewarm temperature. 
Rub and wring as lightly as possible, 
rather sousing the garments up and 
down and squeezing out the water 



WASH DAY 



217 



with the hands. Add oxgall or alum 
to the suds, and salt or vinegar to 
the rinsing water to set the colors. 
Dry delicate colors in the shade. 
Avoid direct sunlight or proximity to 
a hot fire. Take down before dry and 
iron while damp, but without sprin- 
kling. 

Soap Jelly for Woolen Goods. — To 
avoid preparing suds by shaving soap 
and boiling each time, it is convenient 
to prepare in advance a soap jelly, as 
follows: shave any amount of neutral 
white or yellow soap in the propor- 
tion of i pound of soap to 1 quart of 
boiling water and simmer until dis- 
solved. When cold it will jell. Use 
this jelly in the proportion of 1 heap- 
ing tablespoonful to J gallon of warm 
water to prepare suds for washing all 
flannel or woolen goods. This saves 
the time required to bring the water 
to a boil. 

To Wash Colored flannel and 
Woolen Goods — Other Kethods. — In 
addition to soapsuds, flannel and wool- 
en goods may be washed in bran, flour 
starch, or rice. To use flour starch, 
take a teacupful of flour and rub it 
smooth with a little water to form a 
fine paste. Add boiling water slowly, 
stirring vigorously to make a smooth 
starch. Boil five or ten minutes and 
strain through cheese cloth into half 
a tubful of warm water, stirring vig- 
orously. This will make good suds 
without soap. 

To Wash Dress Goods with Rice. — 
Boil 3 pounds of rice in 13 quarts 
of water for 2 or 3 hours. Pour half 
of this into a tub, and when cool 
enough to bear the hands put the 
garments in and wash them with the 
soft boiled rice the same as with soap. 
Strain the other half through cheese 
cloth. Put the solid part into an- 
other tub of warm water and wash 
the garments once in this. Rinse in 
clear warm water, and a second time 
in warm water in which the clear rice 
water that was reserved for this pur- 
pose has been added. This will take 
the place of starch. No soap or 
starch need be used. The rice should 
be boiled a day or two in advance and 



kept in readiness, so that garments 
may be washed early in the morning 
and done up the same day. 

Woolen Taney Work — Crochet, etc. 
— Small and delicate woolen articles 
may be put into a cotton bag or tied 
up in a pillowcase and washed the 
same as other woolen articles. The 
suds and rinsing water should be plen- 
tiful. The articles need not be taken 
out of the bag while washing, and 
they may be hung up in it on the line 
to dry. 

Woolen Tahle Covers. — First re- 
move all stains and grease spots; next 
soak thirty minutes in strong salt 
water. Prepare suds, wash, rinse, and 
dry same as other colored woolen 
goods. If much soiled, apply soap and 
water with a. scrubbing brush, laying 
the cloth on the washboard placed 
crosswise upon the tub. 

To Wash Knitted Shawls. — Knitted 
or crocheted shawls may be folded as 
flat as possible and laid carefully in 
a pillowcase, run through at inter- 
vals with basting thread to keep flat, 
and treated like other flannel or wool- 
en goods. If washed separately, ob- 
serve the usual cautions for woolen 
goods, gently squeezing through the 
hands and keeping the suds and rins- 
ing water of the same lukewarm tem- 
perature. Do not hang knitted goods 
up to dry, but put in the oven on a 
big platter, shaking and turning oc- 
casionally, or lay on a clean cloth in 
the bright sunshine. 

Woolen Shawls. — The most delicate 
colored cashmere and other woolen 
shawls may be washed in soapsuds if 
proper precautions are observed. Make 
suds same as for other woolen goods 
by dissolving 1 pound of hard white 
soap in 3J pailfuls of water. Add 1 
tablespoonful of oxgall or 2 ounces 
of alum and wash the articles by sous- 
ing up and down, rubbing as little as 
possible. Squeeze the water out of 
them and rinse in two or three waters, 
each containing a teaspoonftil of salt. 
Place between two dry sheets to wring 
out and wring lightly. Press while 
still damp with a warm, not hot, 
iron. 



218 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To Wash Blankets. — Choose a warm, 
sunny day with a gentle breeze. Pre- 
pare suds by dissolving in hot water 
i bar of any good white hard soap, 1 
tablespoonful of borax, and 1 table- 
spoonful of aqua ammonia for each 
pair of blankets. Let the suds cool 
until they will bear the hands. Im- 
merse the blankets and let them stand 
in the suds for an hour, keeping the 
temperature about as hot as the hands 
wiU bear by frequently adding hot 
water. Do not rub soap on the blan- 
kets nor scour nor rub them. Lay the 




"Lay the Washboard Across the Tub." 

washboard flat across the tub, put in 
one blanket at a time, raise the blan- 
ket on to the washboard and go around 
the edge, applying the suds with a 
scrubbing brush and rubbing vigor- 
ously. Meantime heat sufficient water 
for two more lathers. Remove from 
the first to a second suds prepared in 
the same manner, seize the blanket by 
the middle and souse it up and down. 
Squeeze and press it between the hands 
until clean. Rinse in three clear 
waters, keeping them at the same tem- 
perature as the suds, namely, as hot 
as the hands will bear, and run through 
the wringer or squeeze the water out 
of them rather than wring them in 
the usual way. Fasten by the edges 
to the line and frequently shake and 
stretch them to their proper size while 
drying. To have the best success in 
washing blankets two points must be 
observed, namely: to keep the water 



at a uniform temperature, neither boil- 
ing hot nor cold enough to chill, but 
as hot as the hands will bear; and not 
to wring or rub the blankets in such 
a way that the fibers will become in- 
terlaced and cause shrinking. When 
thoroughly dry beat the blankets 
while on the line with a carpet beater. 
This wiU cause the wool to become 
fluffy like a new blanket. 

To Wash. Bedspreads. — If bed- 
spreads are changed quite frequently 
they will not require soaking, but if 
very much soiled they may be soaked 
by putting them in a tub and pour- 
ing over them a boilerf ul of hot water 
in which 3 tablespoonfuls of borax 
has been dissolved. Prepare suds by 
dissolving 1 bar of hard white or 
yellow soap in a boilerful of hot 
water and wash same as other white 
goods. Do not use, any form of soda, 
lye, or any washing fluids or com- 
pounds. If washed on a windy day, 
bedspreads will need no ironing. 
Fold the edges together and pin them 
on the line with the wrong side out. 
This not only prevents the spread 
from wearing across the middle, but 
gives it a fresher appearance than 
ironing. 

To Wash Comforters. — Sometimes 
a heavy comforter can be washed by 
simply tacking it smoothly on a clean 
shingle roof and letting the rain fall 
on it. It is well to previously soak it 
for half an hour or more in a strong 
solution of common salt to prevent 
the colors running. 

Or soak the comforter for an hour 
or two in borax water. Prepare suds 
as for other colored goods, with the 
addition of oxgall or alum and salt. 
Lay the washboard across the top of 
the tub and apply the suds with a 
soft scrubbing brush, especially round 
the edges. Continue as in washing 
blankets. Those who have a supply 
of running water may use the garden 
hose for rinsing blankets, bedspreads, 
and comforters. Remove from the 
suds without wringing, hang them on 
a line, and drench them with water 
from the hose until they are rinsed 
thoroughly. 



WASH DAY 



^19i 



BBYING CLOTHES 

Bag for Clothespins. — The ordi- 
nary wooden clothespins are the best. 
Keep clothespins for convenience in a 
bag made like a laundry bag of crash, 
linen, or other washable material, or 
use for this purpose a 24-pound flour 
sack. A wire hoop at the top of the 
clothespin bag is a convenience in 
keeping it open when clothespins are 
wanted. 

To Preserve Clothespins. — Put the 
clothespin bag into a kettle of boiling 
water every few weeks. Remove after 
three to five minutes and spread the 
clothespins out to dry in the sun, or 
dry quickly near the flre. This keeps 
them from becoming brittle and crack- 
ing. 

Dip the heads of part of the clothes- 
pins in dark paint, part in light paint, 
and leave the rest unpainted. Use 
the ones with dark heads for colored 
garments, those with light heads for 
miscellaneous pieces, as flannels, tow- 
els, and the like, and the unpainted 
ones for sheer white garments. Tills 
will prevent using on sheer white 
pieces pins that have been stained by 
colored garments. 

To Have Clothespins Handy. — ^Make 
an apron with a large baglike pocket 
to contain clothespins, to wear whUe 
hanging out the clothes. 

Or put clothespins into a small bas- 
ket (an ordinary grape basket is con- 
venient), and hang the basket on the 
clothesline by a hook made of wire, 
such as is used to hold the basket by 
apple and berry pickers. Push the 
basket along as you hang the clothes. 
It is handy, and is also out of the 
way. 

Or hang on each clothes post a bag 
made of oilcloth with a lapel. Attach 
a sufficient number of pins to the 
clothesline by pieces of strong cord 
about a foot long. Fish line is ex- 
cellent for this purpose. Make a loop 
of the cord over the clothesline large 
enough to admit of it slipping along, 
and fasten the pins securely at the 
other end. After the clothes are taken 
down, the clothespins will remain sus- 



pended from the line by the cords. 
Now shove them all along the line 
to the post, drop them into the bag 
without untying them, cover with 
the lapel, and leave them there for 
future use. But this plan necessi- 
tates leaving the clothesline out of 
doors. 

Or set the clothes basket and 
clothespin bag on a child's four- 
wheeled cart, or even a wheelbarrow, 
and push them along under the line 
as you proceed. 

To Keep the Hands Warm. — Set the 
clothespin bag in a. kettle of boiling 
water. Remove and dry near the 
stove. The hot clothespins will help 
to keep the hands warm in freezing 
weather. 

To Select and Preserve Clotheslines. 
— Gutta-percha clotheslines are much 
more satisfactory than rope. They can 
be left out of doors in all weathers, 
and wiped clean with a damp cloth. 
But clotheslines of rope will last lon- 
ger and keep in better order if they 
are boiled in water for a couple of 
hours when first purchased, and af- 
terwards dipped in boiling water once 
a month. 

They must be thoroughly dried by 
hanging them near the fire or stretch- 
ing them on the clothes posts in the 
sunshine. Care must be taken not to 
allow them to kink. 

To Wash Clotheslines. — A soiled 
line may be cleansed and made to 
look like new by boiling it in strong 
soapsuds. For this purpose make suds 
of a neutral white or yellow soap, but 
do not use soda in any form or wash- 
ing powders containing free alkali. 
The line is so thick that the alkali 
may not all be rinsed out of it and 
hence will be likely to rot the fiber. 
Wind the line into a coil around the 
elbow, tie it securely at both ends, and 
. put it in the boiling suds. If it is 
much soiled, change the water. Pour 
the last suds into the tub, place the 
coil of line on the washboard, and ap- 
ply the suds with a scrubbing brush, 
scrubbing downward. Dry by stretch- 
ing between clothes posts in the sun- 
shine or indoors by the ftre. Take 



220 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



care that the line is thoroughly dry- 
before it is put away. 

To Avoid Kinks in Clotheslines. — 
To prevent a clothesline from becom- 
ing kinked or twisted when taken 
down, wind it toward you instead of 
from you. This tends to remove the 
kinkiness. 

Care of Clotheslines. — Do not put 
out a clothesline until the clothes are 
ready tp be hung out. When they are 
dry take the line down at once, coil 
it carefully over the elbows to avoid 
kinks, knot the coil at one end, and 
slip it into a clean cotton bag with a 
draw string at one end to keep it free 
from dust and dirt. Hang the bag 
in a clean, dry place. 

To Hang Out Clothes. — ^The orderly 
arrangement made by sorting the 
clothes in the first instance should be 
observed in hanging them on the line. 
Hang the contents of the first boiler 
in one row, those of the second boiler 
in another, sheets together, towels to- 
gether, napkins together, and so on. 
Expose plain white goods and coarser 
articles to the sun, but hang colored 
goods and delicate woolen and flannel 
goods in the shade. Hang up the 
clothes, especially colored articles, as 
quickly as possible after they are re- 
moved from the rinsing water. If 
small or delicate articles, as laces, 
crocheted articles, and the like, are 
boiled in a cotton bag or pillowcase, 
hang them up in this receptacle to 
dry. Take down woolens and flan- 
nels, including blankets, before they 
are quite dry. While drying, stretch 
them occasionally as nearly as possi- 
ble to their proper shape. 

To Hang Out large Pieces. — Fold 
large pieces, as tablecloths, sheets, 
blankets, counterpanes, quilts, and the 
like, and pin the opposite edges to the 
line rather than by the middle. The 
articles will thus be less injured by 
whipping and present a better appear- 
ance. Figured counterpanes hung in 
this way will require no ironing, and 
if on account of sickness or otherwise 
it is necessary to save labor, sheets 
and even tablecloths may be used 
rough dry. 



To Take Down Clothes. — When 
taking clothes from the line place 
the clothes basket in a chUd's cart or 
wheelbarrow. Lay a large clean cloth 
in the bottom, shake the wrinkles 
from each article, fold it carefully, 




"Place the Basket in a Child's Cart." 



and lay all in orderly fashion in the 
basket. Put the corners of the sheets, 
tablecloths, towels, and other similar 
articles exactly together, and it will 
be found much easier to iron them 
than if they were thrown into a clothes 
basket in a disorderly mass. 

To Prevent Preezing. — ^The excess 
of soap and washing powders con- 
taining alkali which may be left in 
fabrics by careless rinsing wiU in time 
give white articles a dingy or yellow 
color. This is very much intensified 
by freezing. Colored articles will al- 
ways be more or less faded by freez- 
ing, and all garments are injured 
more by one freezing than by several 
weeks of constant use. To prevent 
freezing add salt to the rinsing water. 
This makes tKe clothes less liable to 
freeze. 

If the corners especially of towels, 
napkins, etc., and the edges of sheets 
and tablecloths be dipped in rather 
strong salt water they wUl not freeze 
so tightly, and there will be less dan- 
ger of their tearing when whipped by 
the wind or when being removed from 
the line. 

Bad Weather. — If wash day is 
stormy the clothes may be thoroughly 



WASH DAY 



221 



wrung dry, rolled up, and laid away 
in covered tubs or baskets for a, rea- 
sonable time while waiting for fair 
weather. This plan is better than to 
keep them soaking in a tub of water. 

If the clothes are on the line and it 
Is necessary, on account of bad weath- 
er, to take them down before they are 
dry, it is a good plan to put the 
clotheshorse in the yard, fold the 
pieces, and lay them over it, rather 
than to crowd the wet clothes into 
the basket. They can then be car- 
ried on the clotheshorse indoors and 
placed by the fire. 

Or clothes may be dried indoors by 
special drying arrangement in the 
kitchen or other warm, convenient 
room. Place hooks or small pulleys on 
either side of a room opposite one 
another, about SJ feet apart and at 
a height a few inches above the head 
of the tallest member of the family. 
Stretch the clothesline on these so that 
it will go back and forth across the 
room. Instead of allowing the clothes 
to hang down on the line, stretch 
them across horizontally, up and out 
of the way. Put the heaviest articles 



nearest the stove, and keep a good 
fire. Open the windows a few inches 
at the top for ventilation. An entire 
wash for a family of half a dozen 
persons can be thus dried without 
serious inconvenience in an ordinary 
kitchen. If there is a special room 
set apart for the laundry, this method 
will be found equally convenient. 

To Dry Knit Goods. — Children's 
knitted underwear, woolen shirts, and 
other small but expensive articles 
which tend to shrink when drying, may 
be kept in shape by drying on frames. 
These may be purchased or can be 
readily made by any ingenious mem- 
ber of the family. They sho^ild be 
about an inch wider than the gar- 
ment, made in two parts hinged to- 
gether, and each having an arm piece 
with a blunt point projecting at the 
side. Shut the stretcher by means of 
the hinges, slip it into the garment 
while wet, insert the arm pieces, 
stretch it out flat, button the garment, 
and hang it up to dry. This not only 
preserves the shape and prevents 
shrinking, but gives the article the 
appearance of being new. 



CHAPTER VII 

IRONING DAY 

BLUING AND SPRINKLING— STARCH AND STARCfflNG— CARE OF 
IRONING UTENSILS— IRONING— TO DO UP SILKS, RIBBONS. 
AND WOOLENS— TO DO UP LACES AND CURTAINS— TO MARK 
AND STORE LINEN 



BLUIITG AND SFBmSLIirG 

Bluing. — It is very difficult to rinse 
clothes quite free from all traces of 
soap or other washing compounds. 
The minute quantities of alkali left 
in the fabrics tend to give white arti- 
cles a dingy or yellow tinge. The ob- 
ject of bluing is to correct this. Hence 
it is customary to add bluing to the 
last rinsing water for white articles 
or colored goods that have a white 
background. For dark colored goods 
it is also customary to add a liberal 
supply of bluing to the starch. Some 
laundresses do not wring from the 
bluing water table linens and simi- 
lar articles which they desire to have 
a fine, clear white, but hang them up 
dripping in order to deepen their 
luster. 

To Make Bluing. — In addition to 
the various kinds of commercial blu- 
ing upon the market, the following 
recipes are recommended: 

Dissolve 1 ounce of the best soluble 
Prussian blue powder and 4 ounce of 
powdered oxalic acid in 1 quart of 
soft water. 

Or dissolve 1 package of blue dia- 
mond dye for cotton in 1 quart of 
soft water. To prevent lumps, pre- 
pare this as you would starch. Rub 
the dry powder into a paste with a 
little water, add a little more cold 
water, then add the rest of the water 
boiling hot. Cool and bottle for use. 

Sprinkling. — The object of sprin- 
kling is to give the garments a uniform 
dampness, to soften wrinkles, and to 



prevent the iron from scorching. 
Hence the clothes should be sprinkled 
slightly and afterwards rolled up and 
allowed to lie until the moisture has 
uniformly penetrated all parts of the 
fabric. Delicate colored goods, flan- 
nels and other woolens, and fine linens 
will have a better appearance if ironed 
on the same day that they were washed 
than if allowed to become entirely dry 
before ironing. Colored goods es- 
pecially should not be sprinkled if it 
can be avoided. 

Utensils for Sprinkling. — An ordi- 
nary brush broom, a chUd's sprinkling 




"An Ordinary Brush Bromn." 

can, a tin baking-powder can or glass 
fruit jar with metal top perforated 
by holes made with a hammer and 



232 



IRONING DAY 



small nails, are all convenient utensils 
for sprinkling. A small fine-grain 
sponge and a basin of water should 
be at hand when ironing. If small 
spots of sheer goods become dry they 
should be dampened before ironing, 
or if a smudge or patch of starch ap- 
pears it can be thus removed without 
affecting the rest of the garment. 

STARCH AND STABGHING 

To Hake Starch. — Starch is a sub- 
stance contained in various vegetables, 
as grains, potatoes, etc. 

Starch is made from grain by steep- 
ing it in cold water until it becomes 
soft. It is then placed in sacks and 
pressed in a vat with water. The 
milky juice which is produced by this 
process is allowed to stand until it 
becomes clear, when the starch sinks 
to the bottom in the form of a white 
powder. 

Starch may be made from potatoes 
by grating them in water and strain- 
ing and squeezing the mass through 
thin cloth, as cheese cloth, or a suit- 
able sieve. The liquid is then allowed 
to stand until the potato starch set- 
tles at the bottom. The clear liquid 
from wWch the starch has settled has 
considerable cleansing properties and 
is especially useful to clean colored 
silks, woolens, and other delicate ar- 
ticles without injury to their color 
or texture. The coarse fiber of the 
potato removed by straining may be 
used in washing heavy colored wool- 
en articles, as blankets, horse blankets, 
carriage robes, and the like. These 
articles should be soaked in water 
containing salt to set the colors, and 
afterwards scrubbed with the grated 
potato fibers and scrubbing brush and 
water. 

Starch may be made from potatoes 
which are too small for domestic use, 
and a fairly good quality may also 
be made from frosted potatoes, al- 
though this last may have a slightly 
darker color. The starch from frosted 
potatoes may be improved by adding 
fresh water 'l after the first clear liquid 
has been turned off, stirring, and al- 



lowing it to settle once more, and so 
continuing imtil the liquid is entirely 
clear. 

To Prepare Starch. — The amount of 
starch to prepare for a given wash- 
ing depends upon the articles to be 
starched, and must be determined in 
each family by experiment. The abil- 
ity to do up starched linen perfectly 
is one of the most severe tests of the 
successful laundress. Hence the im- 
portance of knowing how to prepare 
good starch. First mix the required 
amount of common starch with a small 
quantity of cold water to the con- 
sistency of cream. Carefully rub and 
beat the starch with a spoon to break 
up all lumps and insure that the 
particles of starch are evenly wet 
through. Thin to the consistency of 
milk with a little more cold water. 
For thick cooked starch add 8 parts 
of boiling water to 1 of starch. For 
thin cooked starch add 16 parts of 
water to 1 of starch. Pour the water 
while boiling vigorously in a thin 
stream, and stir constantly to pre- 
vent the starch from lumping. Set 
the starch over the fire and continue 
to boil it from 3 to 5 minutes, stirring 
vigorously all the time. If such sub- 
stances as wax, borax, oil, etc., are 
used, they should be mixed with the 
starch while cooking. Bluing should 
not be added until the starch is cold. 
Raw starch or that which has been 
insufSciently cooked will stick to the 
iron and make much trouble for the 
laundress. Cooked starch may be 
thinned by the addition of cold water. 

Cornstarch. — Common cornstarch, 
such as is used for making puddings, 
is preferred by some laundresses in- 
stead of the ordinary laundry starch. 
It is about as cheap and in the 
opinion of many gives a finer gloss 
and more finished appearance to deli- 
cate starched articles. Try this some 
time when the laundry starch is 
out and see how you like it. A mix- 
ture of the two kinds is also much 
favored. 

Starch with Wax. — For white cuffs, 
collars, and shirt bosoms melt with 
gentle heat white wax or a mixture 



224 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



of equal parts of white wax and sper- 
maceti or a mixture of 1 part of white 
wax to 2 parts of spermaceti, as pre- 
ferred, and stir into ordinary starch 
while boiling. Use a lump of wax 
about the size of a walnut to a quart 
of cooked starch, or estimate the 
amount of wax in the proportion of 
l^g^ to J of the bulk of dry starch re- 
quired for the garments. 

Starch with Borax. — ^Add 1 table- 
spoonful of borax to each pint of 
cooked starch while boiling. This 
makes the starch go farther by lessen- 
ing the amount that adheres to each 
garment. It increases the gloss with- 
out giving additional stiffness and 
tends to prevent the irons from stick- 
ing. 

Or add 1 teaspoonful of borax to 1 
pint of uncooked starch for garments 
requiring stiffness. 

Or mix 1 teaspoonful of borax and 
2 tablespoonfuls of dry starch. Rub 
carefully in a small quantity of cold 
water and add enough to make IJ 
cupfuls. 

Starch with Salt. — Add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of table salt to 1 pint of cooked 
or uncooked starch. This prevents the 
starch from being whipped out oi the 
garments by the wind when drying, 
and also from freezing in severely cold 
weather. 

Or add 1 teaspoonful of Epsom 
salts to each bowl of cooked starch 
while boiling. This will add stiff'ness 
and tend to prevent the articles from 
being scorched by hot irons. 

Starch with Soap. — Make the boil- 
ing water in which starch is cooked 
slightly soapy with pure castile or 
other neutral white soap. This will 
assist in producing a gloss and will 
also prevent the irons from sticking. 

Starch with Gum Arabic. — Prepare 
a solution of gum arable by putting 
about 2 oimces of the white gum fine- 
ly powdered in a glass bottle or quart 
fruit jar and pouring over it 1 pint 
of boiling water. Cork tightly and 
shake until the powder is dissolved. 
After 24 hours strain through cheese 
cloth and preserve the clear gum wa- 
ter for use. Add 1 tablespoonful to 



each pint of cooked starch while boil- 
ing. This is especially useful for fine 
dress goods, either white or colored, 
as lawns, muslins, calicoes, and the 
like, giving them much of the body 
and appearance of new material. Less 
of the gum water may be used for the 
finished materials, as muslins, and 
more may be added for cuffs, collars, 
and shirt cuffs to increase the stiff- 
ness and impart a gloss. 

Starch with Sugar. — Add a tea- 
spoonful of granulated sugar to each 
pint of starch while boiling. This as- 
sists in giving the so-called domestic 
finish. 

Starch with Stearin. — Add a tea- 
spoonful of stearin to each pint of 
starch when boiling. This substance 
with the addition of bluing is sold 
under the name of " starch luster " at 
a much higher price than the stearin 
itself costs, and is no better. 

Starch with Lard. — Add half a tea- 
spoonful of lard or butter to each 
quart of cooked starch when boiling. 
This helps to give the soft or domes- 
tic finish, and prevents the irons from 
sticking. 

Additions to Starch. — Among the 
various substances added to starch for 
different purposes are wax, borax, salt, 
soap, lard, sugar, gum arable, glue, 
stearin, and glycerin. Borax makes 
the starch more fluid, so that it goes 
farther, and eilso increases the gloss. 
Salt prevents the starch from freezing 
in garments; wax and gum arable and 
stearin increase the gloss and give 
additional stiffness, and soap and 
sugar improve the gloss. These sub- 
stances may also be mixed together 
according to various special recipes. 

Special Becipes for Starch. — Melt 
together with gentle heat white wax, 
3 ounces; spermaceti, 3 ounces; borax, 
J pound; gum tragacanth, IJ ounces. 
Add 1 teaspoonful of the mixture to 
1 pint of cooked starch while boU- 
ing. 

Or, to prevent irons from sticking, 
rub J teaspoonful of lard and 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt into the dry starch, 
and proceed as with ordinary cooked 
starch. 



lEONING DAY 



Or mix 1 teaspoonful of white soap 
run through a grater with 1 pint of 
starch while boiling. 

Or mdt with gentle heat 1 ounce 
of isinglass, 1 ounce of borax, 1 tea- 
spoonful of white glue, and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of white of egg. Stir into 
2 quarts of cooked starch while boil- 
ing. This will give shirt bosoms a 
high polish. 

Starch with Soda. — Add J teaspoon- 
ful of baking soda to 1 pint of cooked 
starch when boiling. This prevents the 
starch from whipping out of garments 
on the line, and also assists in giving 
finer finish. 

To Apply Starch. — Strain the hot 
starch through a piece of cheese cloth 
and use while it is still warm. Select 
first the articles that require the most 
stiffness, as shirt bosoms, collars, and 
cuffs. A portion of the starch of 
course adheres to each, so that it be- 
comes thinner by using. Starched 
clothes such as skirts, etc., should 
never be stiff enough to rattle. The 
garments to be starched should be 
nearly dry. Immerse them or such 
part of them as should be starched in 
the thick starch, and rub between the 
hands to work the starch thoroughly 
into their texture. Remove from the 
starch, squeeze out the excess, and rub 
once more with the hands to distribute 
the starch evenly through the mate- 
rial. If this is not done the surface 
will not iron smoothly. Dry the arti- 
cles, sprinkle them, spread them on a 
clean white cloth, and roll them up 
in bundles so that the dampness will 
be evenly distributed before ironing. 

To Starch Colored Clothes. — Divide 
the starch, set apart the required 
amount for colored clothes, and add 
bluing sufficient to make the starch 
quite blue. Use a liberal supply of 
bluing for blacks and dark colors, but 
not so much for light garments, es- 
pecially pink. This will prevent white 
patches of starch from appearing on 
dark garments. 

Or dip black or colored goods, as 
lawns and calicoes, in sweet or sour 
milk and use no starch. Milk alone 
will give the desired stiffness. 



Or, for delicate colored goods, use 
a simple solution of giun arable in- 
stead of starch. 

Or rinse in dilute bran water or rice 
water instead of starch. 

To Starch White Dress Goods. — 
Thin white dress goods, as white 
waists and summer gowns, may be 
starched with cold raw starch. Dry 
without starching. Dissolve a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of starch in suf- 
ficient water to immerse the garment, 
dip it into the starch until saturated, 
rinse in cold water, wring out, roll up 
in a dry cloth, and iron half an hour 
later. 

Or dry the garments, dip a clean 
muslin cloth into raw starch, and lay 
over them long enough to dampen 
them. After a few minutes press 
them with a hot iron. 

For delicate lawns and similar fab- 
rics use a solution of gum arable di- 
luted to give the stiffness required. 

C&SE OF IBONIXG TTTHITSIIS 

Ironing TTtensils. — Various im- 
proved implements and machines have 




"An Ironing Machine for Domestic Use." 

been perfected for ironing, but the 
old-fashioned flatiron heated on the 



£S6 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



range is still a well-nigh universal 
favorite. Mangles, or large heated 
cylinders revolving under pressure for 
ironing gaiments, have been in general 
use in laundries for many years, to- 
gether with polishing machines and 
similar appliances. But until quite 
recently there has not been upon the 
market a satisfactory ironing machine 
suitable for domestic use. Such ma- 
chines can now be obtained, and they 
are to be recommended for large fam- 
ilies who can afford them. 

The denatured alcohol flatiron is 
a cheap, practical, and serviceable, 
device. 

The electric flatiron is an ideal 
utensil in homes that are supplied 
with electricity. 

The patented flatiron which has a 
removable wooden handle is a great 
improvement over the old-fashioned 
solid iron which requires the use of 
cloth or asbestos holders. 

The asbestos flatiron is an imple- 
ment that is especially recommended. 

To do fine ironing it is necessary to 
have several kinds of irons. For shirt 
bosoms, collars, and cuffs a ribbed or 
other polishing iron is necessary. Ruf- 
fles will be improved by the use of a 
fluting iron. The puff iron for fine 
tucks, puffy sleeves, and other elabo- 
rate work is especially useful. This 
iron is attached to a standard and the 
cloth is passed through it. It may be 
heated at the ordinary range. 

Some persons are satisfied with the 
cold mangle, especially for table lin- 
ens, linen sheets, and other linen pieces, 
on the theory that heat has a ten- 
dency to deteriorate the linen and 
also to give it a yeUow tinge, but 
ironing by means of hot irons is stai 
the custom. 

A toy flatiron such as is sold for 
children is not only useful in the hands 
of a child for ironing dolls' clothes as 
a lesson in domestic economy, but is 
also very convenient to the laundress 
for tucks, fluting, and other difficult 
parts of dresses and similar garments. 
Such an iron may be packed in a, 
trunk and taken on vacation trips. 
It will be found most useful in hotels. 



where it can be heated over the gas or 
by means of a small alcohol lamp, and 
used for doing up handkerchiefs, laces, 
ribbons, and other small articles, both 




" a. Device for Heating Flatirons. b. Holder, 
c. Emery-cloth Board, d. Wax. e. Stand." 

as a measure of economy and also to 
prevent their being deteriorated by 
careless treatment in the laundry. 

To Prevent Rust on Irons. — If irons 
are exposed to moisture or stored 
away for a time, brush or rub them 
when warm with a mixture of vaseline 
and sweet oil. Lard or vaseline alone 
may be used for this purpose. These 
substances may be removed by wash- 
ing the iron in good soapsuds when 
ready for use. 

To Keep Flatirons Clean. — In small 
apartments it is often convenient to 
store the flatirons on the back of the 
range. To keep them free from grease 
and dirt take a conunon pasteboard 
shoe box or other box of convenient 
shape and size, and cover with sheet 
asbestos glued on. Keep the irons in 
this, and they will be clean, dry, and 
always handy. 

Care of Irons. — Care must be taken 
to prevent the roughening of irons 
from starch or other sticky substance 
adhering to them' and burning on. 
This is especially likely to happen if 
raw or partiy cooked starch is used. 
To prevent this, tack a piece of very 
fine sandpaper on the ironing board 
and rub the iron on it each time be- 
fore returning to the fire. 

Or use bath brick, dry salt, or pow- 
dered pumice stone spread on a 
smooth surface, with or without sand- 
paper. 

Or fill a cheese-cloth bag with pow- 
dered pumice stone and rub the iron 
on this. 



IRONING DAY 



227 



Starch may be prevented from stick- 
ing to the iron by the use of beeswax, 
paraffin, wax paper, or kerosene. To 
use beeswax, put it in a little bag of 
cloth or between two pieces of paper, 
and attach to the ironing board. Rub 
the iron over this. Save the paraffin 
on the tops of jars of jelly, melt up, 
and pour into a mold to cool. Put 
this in a cloth bag and use the same 
as beeswax. 

Or save the wax papers that come 
in cracker boxes or the inside linings 
of laundry soap, and rub the irons on 
these. 

Or have at hand a cloth saturated 
with kerosene, and rub the iron over 
this. These methods all tend to make 
the ironing easier by lessening the 
friction and also keep the iron clean 
and give polish to the fabrics. 

Cautions. — Never use irons for 
cracking nuts or hammering nails. 
Never allow them to become red hot. 
They do not retain the heat equally 
throughout afterwards and will al- 
ways be rough. Do not keep them on 
the stove when not in use without pro- 
tecting them from the heat by as- 
bestos. 

To Heat Irons. — Irons wiU heat 
more quickly and with less fuel and 
will keep hot longer if an iron or 
tin pan is turned over them while 
heating. A sheet-iron pan, like a 
bread pan, is best for this purpose, 
but a deep dripping pan, frying pan, 
or solid tin pan may be used. ' This 
will be found especially important in 
summer, when a hot fire is unbear- 
able. When gas is used, if a pan is 
turned over the flatirons and a tea- 
kettle placed on top, hot water also 
may be had with the use of a single 
burner. 

To Test the Heat of Irons. — ^The 
iron is hotter when a drop of water 
will run along the surface than when 
it is immediately evaporated. A very 
hot iron will form a cushion of steam 
which will keep the drop from the 
surface. Hence if a drop of water 
sticks and immediately evaporates, the 
iron is not sufficiently hot for some 
purposes. 



Holders for Irons. — A thin sheet of 
asbestos between two folds of cloth 
makes the best holder for flatirons. 
A square piece of leather, cut from 
the top of an old boot and put be- 
tween two thicknesses of cloth, is con- 
venient and comfortable. These hold- 
ers may be bound with bratd. 

To Hang Up an Ironing Board. — 
Put screw eyes on the end of the iron- 
ing board so that it can be hung 
from nails on the wall or the inside 
of pantry doors. 

Covers for Ironing Boards. — Make 
two or three covers for the ironing 
board to fit tightly when drawn on, 
like a pillowcase. When one is soiled 
another may be substituted. The 
quickness and convenience with which 
these may be changed will soon pay 
for the labor of making them. A 
somewhat looser calico bag to slip 
over the board when not in use will 
keep it clean. Old sheets and dis- 
carded wrappers will furnish materials 
for these covers. 

To Arrange the Ironing Board. — 
Fix two heavy screw eyes in the broad 
end of an ironing board and attach 
to these a piece of strong picture wire 
the same as if you intended to hang 
the ironing board like a picture upon 




"Leaves the End Unobstructed." 

the wall. Screw into the top of the 
baseboard, high enough from the floor 
to be out of the way of mops and 
brooms, two strong screw hooks. Now 
draw a stand or narrow table oppo- 



228 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



site these screw hooks in such a way 
that the broad end of the ironing 
board may rest upon it while the nar- 
row end projects into the room. In 
this position the ironing board should 
about balance, but of course the pres- 
sure of the iron on the unsupported 
end would cause it to tip. Now catch 
the wire guys attached to the broad 
end of the ironing board over the two 
screw hooks in the baseboard. These 
will prevent the narrow end of the 
board from tipping, and leave it im- 
obstructed, so that skirts, shirts, and 
other similar articles may be slipped 
over it conveniently. 

IBOITIKG 

To Iron Shirts. — Starch the shirt 
bosoms, collars, and cuffs in cooked 
starch containing also wax or lard or 
other siniilar substance. The addition 
of gum arable wiU increase the stiff- 
ness. First use the common iron in 
the usual way, making the surface 
smooth, but without polishing. Iron 
first the back and sleeves, next the 
collar and bosom, last the front. This 
dull or domestic finish, as it is called, 
is preferred by many persons to a 
high polish, but if the latter is de- 
sired use a smooth hard-wood board 
covered rather thickly with cloth on 
one side, but not on the other. First 
use the padded side of the board, 
ironing the bosom smooth, then turn 
the board, lay the bosom upon the 
hard wood, take the polishing iron, and 
polish by rubbing vigorously cross- 
wise. A good polishing iron should 
weigh between 6 and 7 pounds and 
have a rounded edge at the heel. The 
iron is not laid down flat, but only 
the edge of the heel is used to give 
the polish. Keep the iron very hot 
and dampen the bosom slightly before 
using it by brushing with a damp 
cloth or sponge. If the bosom rises 
in wavelike blisters, dampen it slightly 
and go over it again. It requires a 
little care to use a polishing iron, but 
with experience any laundress can give 
as good a polish as can be produced 
in a steam laundry. A greater finish 



can be obtained by laying over the 
bosom a cloth dipped in starch just 
before the polishing iron is applied. 

To Iron Colored Goods. — Colored 
goods should be ironed, when possible, 
before they are quite dry. They 
should not, as a rule, be sprinkled nor 
allowed to lie over night. The iron 
should be allowed to cool slightly, as 
delicate colors, especially pinks and 
greens, will frequently fade as soon 
as they are touched by a hot iron. 
The pink may turn to purple and the 
green to blue. 

If, however, colored goods cannot 
be ironed the day they are washed, 
they should not be allowed to lie over 
night in a wet condition, but should 
first be thoroughly dried and then 
slightly dampened just before iron- 
ing by roUing them in a damp cloth 
and allowing them to stand for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. 

Press colored goods on the wrong 
side, especially the collars and cuffs. 
Iron on the right side no more than 
is absolutely necessary to take out the 
wrinkles. 

To Iron Blacls; Sateen and Farmer's 
Satin, — Use no starch. Iron on the 
wrong side. 

To Iron Taney Work. — Press rib- 
bons, lace, and embroidery on the 
wrong side, and iron delicate articles 
through a piece of linen. For colored 
silks and ribbons, allow the iron to 
cool slightly as with any other col- 
ored goods. 

To Iron linen. — ^The appearance of 
linen will be improved if it is ironed 
the same day it is washed and with- 
out hanging out to dry. Rinse thor- 
oughly, wring dry, and roll the Unen 
articles in a dry sheet. Let them lie 
for a time and iron dry with a hot 
iron. This saves the wear on fine linen 
of whipping on a clothesline, and gives 
an additional stiffness and luster, es- 
pecially to cheap linens and well-worn 
articles. 

To Do IJp Handkerchiefs. — ^To save 
ironing, spread the handkerchief wet 
from rinsing water on a clean pane 
of glass or mirror. When dry, fold 
and lay away. Guests at summer 



IRONING DAY 



229 



hotels and persons who are boarding 
will find this plan very convenient. 
It is especially desirable for fine linen 
and delicate lace handkerchiefs, to 
save the wear and tear of the laun- 
dry. 

Ironing Hints. — Table linen and 
handkerchiefs frequently show wear 
where the customary folds have been 
ironed in. To save wear press the arti- 
cle all over until perfectly dry, vrithout 
folding. Then fold and press the folds 
lightly with a hot iron. The appear- 
ance will be the same as if the folds 
had been ironed separately, but the 
articles will wear longer. 

Large tablecloths that are awkward 
to manage without folding may be 
rolled upon curtain poles as fast as 
they are ironed. When the entire cloth 
has been ironed it may be unrolled 
and folded with a light pressure. 

The clothes wringer will smooth 
sheets, towels, pillowcases, and the 
like sufficiently vnthout ironing, and 
upon occasion these articles may be 
folded and put away rough dry. Give 
handkerchiefs one fold less than is 
customary, leaving them oblong in- 
stead of square. The economy of time 
is small, but the handkerchiefs lie 
more conveniently in the drawer. 

To Iron Embroidery. — Embroidered 
articles, as doilies, shirt waists, and 
the like, Hamburg trinunings, and 
other goods of similar texture may be 
ironed over a Turkish towel. This 
method raises the pattern clearly and 
beautifully. It may also be used for 
napkins, handkerchiefs, and table- 
cloths. The towel yields slightly, less- 
ening the labor of ironing, and the 
process adds to the appearance of the 
article. 

To Take Down Clothes. — Use care 
in wringing clothes and hanging them 
on the line. Lift tablecloths and sim- 
ilar large pieces by the middle from 
the last rinsing water, so as to straight- 
en out the selvage edge, and wring by 
hand. Hang these carefully on the 
line so that they will dry straight and 
not draw on the bias. In hanging 
clothes, straighten the collars, raise 
the bands, and open the sleeves. Fold 



carefully when taken from the line, 
or, if too cold to fold outdoors, do so 
as soon as they are brought into the 
house and before the wrinkles caused 
by packing them in the basket have 
become set. In warm weather spread 
sheets, towels, and the like upon the 
tall grass. They will need very little 
pressing, and will be bleached by the 
sun. 



TO DO UP SILKS, EIBBOXS, AND 
WOOLENS 

To Iron Silks.— Lift silks from the 
rinsing water, shake and snap them 
to remove as much water as possible 
without squeezing or wringing, and 
smooth them out on pieces of old cot- 
ton cloth or towels. Roll them up in 
these and iron as soon as possible 
without drying. Smooth pieces out 
while wet on the ironing board, lay 
over them a piece of thin white mus- 
lin, and iron on the wrong side with 
a moderate iron to prevent smutting. 
Now remove the cloth, iron perfectly 
dry on the wrong side, and smooth 
slightly, if desired, on the face with a 
warm, not hot, iron. The whole proc- 
ess of washing and ironing should 
be done as quickly as possible after 
the silk is wet, as the colors may 
be affected by lying in that condition. 

To Iron Colored Silks. — Like other 
colored goods silk should not be al- 
lowed to dry, but should be ironed 
while still damp with a warm, not 
hot, iron. Place between two cloths 
and iron on the wrong side. 

To Do Up Bibbons. — Wash same as 
other colored silks, and if stiffness is 
required, rinse in weak soapsuds con- 
taining a small amount of gum^ arable. 
Now roll the ribbon about a glass 
bottle, or wind about a small rolling- 
pin, smoothing carefully, and dry in 
the shade. 

Or smooth them out, face down, 
upon a piece of varnished wood. When 
dry they will require no ironing. 

To Remove Wrinkles from Silk. — 
Wrinkled or creased ribbons and silks 
may be restored by laying them on a 
smooth surface and sponging them 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



evenly with a sponge moistened in a 
weak solution of gum arabic. Smooth 
out while wet on a polished flat sur- 
face of wood, or roll about a rolling- 
pin and dry in the shade. Iron be- 
tween two pieces of cloth, pressing on 
the wrong side with a warm, not hot, 
iron. 

To Store Away Silks. — Do not wrap 
silks in white paper. The chloride of 
lime used to bleach the paper will at- 
tack the colors of the silk. 

To Iron Flannel and Woolen Goods. 
— Iron flannels and woolens the same 
day they are washed, if possible, and 
before they become quite dry. Take 
from the line when stUl damp, roll up 
in a dry cloth, and press on the wrong 
side with an iron not too hot. If 
they become dry they should be damp- 
ened slightly by rolling up in a damp 
cloth to await their turn. 

To Iron Blankets. — Iron blankets 
before they are quite dry, and air 
thoroughly before storing away. 

TO DO UP LACES AND CTJBTAI17S 

To Starch Laces. — Good lace does 
not require starching. Enough white 
sugar dissolved in the last rinsing 
water to make it slightly sweet should 
give it the required stiffness. 

Or boil 4 ounces of rice in 1 quart 
of water until the kernels break up. 
Strain through cheese cloth and dip 
the laces in the clear rice water. 

Or use a thin solution of gum 
arabic. 

Or mix 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch 
or wheat starch with cold water to the 
consistency of cream, beating and rub- 
bing until all is wet evenly. Dilute 
to consistency of milk vnth cold water, 
add S or 6 drops of gum arabic, and 
thin with boiling water until nearly 
transparent. Boil for 6 or 6 minutes 
until well cooked. The poorer the lace 
the more stiffness will be required. 
Hence do not dilute too much for 
poor laces. 

To Tint Laces. — For an 6cru tint 
add black coffee or powdered saffron 
to the rinsing water. Or add tea to 
give a stronger shade. Experiment 



with a small sample of the goods, add- 
ing a little more color at a time until 
the right shade is obtained. 

To Iron laces. — If laces are basted 
on cloth, and the cloth is thoroughly 
stretched, or if they are carefully 
wound about a bottle and stitched, 
they may not require any ironing. 
Lace wound about a bottle may be 
dipped into very thin starch or gum- 
arabic water without being removed, 
and may not need any ironing. Lace 
handkerchiefs may be pulled into 
shape wWle wet and carefully laid on 
a pane of glass, wrinkles being all 
smoothed out. When dry they will 
be ready for use. 

Or dry small lace articles between 
two pieces of clean white blotting 
paper under a weight, with or with- 
out ironing. When starch is used, 
do not allow laces to dry, but roll 
them in a dry towel for half an hour 
or more, and press while stiU damp, 
Iron on the wrong side over a Turk-, 
ish towel to bring up the pattern, 
protecting the articles from the iron 
with a piece of muslin or other thin 
white cloth. Use a warm, not hot, 
iron. Ironing pieces while damp great- 
ly improves their appearance; ironing 
on a soft, rough surface both protecta 
them and brings up the pattern, and 
ironing through a thin cloth makes it 
possible to bring out the points and 
pattern of the lace with the point of 
the iron without injury. New em- 
broideries should be washed and ironed 
before using. 

To Bemove Wrinkles. — If lace be- 
comes dry before ironing, or if it is 
desired to remove the wrinkles from 
clean lace without washing, hold it 
over the steam of the teakettle or a 
basin of steaming water until thor- 
oughly moistened. While damp press 
it under a weight, with or without 
blotters, or iron it as above suggested. 

To Starch Curtains. — Do not use 
much starch for lace curtains. This 
is a common mistake when curtains 
are done up at home. It is contrary 
to the essential delicacy of lace to 
make it stiff with starch. Moreover, 
the sun will rot lace which contains 



IRONING DAY 



231 



too much starch or other stiffening 
substances. Only the coarsest kind of 
lace can stand stiffening. 

To Do Up Curtains. — Starch cur- 
tains the same as other laces with a 
thin boiled cornstarch or wheat starch 
containing a solution of gum arable, 
and stretch them on suitable frames 
or otherwise to dry. If they are 
stretched properly, they will require 
no ironing or they may be pressed 
slightly when dry. 

To Iron Curtains. — ^Lay the curtains 
while still damp on a folded flannel 
blanket and press on the wrong side 
with irons as hot as possible without 
scorching. This method brings out 
raised figures and designs. 

To Prevent Scorch. — ^Wipe the iron 
on a cloth wet with kerosene. 

To Remove Scorch. — Linen articles 
and other white goods slightly scorched 
by hot irons may be restored, if the 
iibers have not been destroyed, by 
simply exposing them to the heat of 
the sun or, on dark days, to the heat 
from an open oven. Moisten them at 
intervals by sponging lightly with clear 
water. If the stains are deeper, rub 
chlorine water into the spot with a 
sponge or linen rag. 

Or run two onions through a meat 
cutter, squeeze out the juice through 
cheese cloth, and mix with half a pint 
of vinegar. Heat the mixture to a 
boil, and add a piece of hard white 
soap the size of an English walnut 
and two or three ounces of fuller's 
earth. Boil five minutes, cool, and 
pour over the scorched linen. Let it 
dry on, and afterwards remove by 
washing. Repeat if necessary. 

TO MAEE AND STOSE LINEX 

Linen Closet. — A special closet or 
wardrobe for linen is a great con- 
venience. If this is not possible, and 
linen must be packed in chests or 
bureau drawers, the various articles 
will lie one upon another so that it is 
difScult to keep them in proper order. 
The shelves of the linen closet should 
be just wide enough apart to admit of 
piles of a dozen articles of each sort. 



and just deep enough to admit one 
row of articles. Numerous shallow 
shelves relatively close together make 
a more convenient arrangement than 
deeper shelves wider apart. A little 
care devoted to making the shelves 
tight, polishing them, and coating 
them with enamel paint or varnish 
to give them a smooth and shining 
surface will be more than compen- 
sated for by the beautiful appear- 
ance of the snowy linen reflected 
upon the shelves and the ease with 
which they may be kept in perfect 
order. 

Comparatively few persons can af- 
ford a surplus of fine linen, but when 
possible, articles should be bought in 
half dozen or dozen lots and used in 
regular rotation. All fabrics will wear 
better if not used continually, but al- 
lowed to rest at intervals. 

Place linen on the shelves in regu- 
lar piles of one dozen each, and when 
it comes from the laundry sort it 
carefully and place the articles that 
have been just laundered at the bot- 
tom of the piles so that they will be 
used in regular rotation. It will as- 
sist you to do this and also to keep 
account of linen if the articles are 
numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, and so on, and 
piled in that way. 

As linen and other articles are 
often mislaid or stolen when sent to 
laundries, and sometimes taken from 
the line or blown away when spread 
on the grass to bleach, it is advisable 
to make an inventory of the contents 
of the linen closet, a copy of which 
may be fastened with thumb tacks to 
the back of the closet door, and 
checked up each time the laundered 
articles are stored away. This will 
also assist in the preparation of a 
shopping list when articles that are 
worn require to be replaced. 

While the term " linen closet " is 
used (and every housewife knows the 
good qualities of linen and would be 
glad to use it exclusively for many 
purposes), the same remarks apply to 
the disposition of cotton sheets, pil- 
lowcases, etc. These, if of good qual- 
ity and well laundered, present al- 



232 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



most as attractive an appearance as 
the linen itself, and will equally re- 
pay the same care and attention. A 
separate place should be set apart 
for those articles which have become 
worn past their original uses, and they 
should be laundered and stored in the 
linen closet until opportunity offers 
for making them up into covers for 
the ironing board, dishcloths, dish 
towels, and the many other uses men- 
tioned elsewhere. Old linen is es- 
pecially valuable for many purposes, 
and the discarded articles should be 
carefully stored in an orderly fashion 
instead of being thrust, as is too often 
the case, helter-skelter into the com- 
mon ragbag. 

When linen has been properly laun- 
dered, aired, and stored in the linen 
closet, nothing is required for the fur- 
ther care of articles in ordinary use 
except to preserve them from damp- 
ness and insects. The various essen- 
tial oils and other perfume-bearing 
substances will assist in preserving 
linen from the attacks of insects. The 
use of thyme, mint, and lavender for 
this purpose by good housekeepers in 
colonial days and in England is pro- 
verbial. Bags containing any or all 
of the following may be employed for 
this purpose: 

Spices, as powdered cloves, mace, 
nutmeg, and cinnamon. 

Flowers of any sort, dried and mixed 
with spices. 

Odorous leaves, as mint, balm, south- 
ernwood, laurel, geranium, sweet mar- 
joram, rosemary, hyssop, and orig- 
anum. 

Roots, as orris and angelica. 

Perfumed woods, as sandalwood, 
rosewood, cassia, sassafras, rhodium. 

Anjmal perfumes, as ambergris, 
musk, and civet. 

Or essential oils extracted from any 
of these. 

To Store linens. — If linen articles 
are not in constant use they should 
be wrapped in brovni, blue, or other 
dark-colored paper, as the bleaching 
powder and other forms of chlorine 
used in bleaching white and light-col- 
ored papers have a tendency to turn 



linen articles yellow, and so does ex- 
posure to air and simlight. 

To Prepare Linen for the Wash.— 
It will be found a matter of economy 
to examine the linen before it goes to 
the laundry and remove all stains, and 
also mend bracks, tears, and worn 
places before the articles are washed. 
Otherwise they may catch on the 
washboard or in the washing machine, 
or be whipped by the wind, caught by 
a flatiron, or otherwise made larger 
than is necessary. Here, as elsewhere, 
" a stitch in time saves nine." 

Marking linen. — A good stamping 
outfit may be obtained very cheaply 
and linen may be stamped with initials 
that can afterwards be worked over 
with embroidery. Large Gothic let- 
ters appear to be most approved for 
this purpose. 

Or, by the use of a few cents' worth 
of carbon paper, which may be ob- 
tained of any stationer, linen may be 
stamped by tracing over any desired 
pattern. A paper pattern may be 
used for this purpose, or one article 
may be sent away to be marked and 
the initial' afterwards transferred to 
the others by tracing over with car- 
bon. 

Before starting to work on any 
stamped linen, take a copy of the de- 
sign on a piece of paper for dupli- 
cates, which may then be transferred, 
at very small expense of time and 
trouble, by means of carbon paper to 
other articles. 

Or plain articles may be marked by 
tracing the initial with a soft lead 
pencil and going over the outline with 
the sewing machine, using any color 
of silk thread that may be desired. 

Or apply marking ink with a steel 
pen or fine camel's-hair brush. For 
recipe, see under " Ink " elsewhere in 
this volume. 

To Hem Table Linen. — Draw a 
thread at either end and cut straight 
across. Turn the hem through the 
narrow hemmer of an unthreaded sew- 
ing machine. This makes a narrower 
and more even hem than can be turned 
by hand. 

The difficulty of drawing the thread 



IRONING DAY 



from linen is much lessened if a 
piece of castile or other hard white 
soap is first rubbed carefully over the 
threads. 

Tablecloth Economics. — If a table- 
cloth wears around the edge by rub- 
bing against the table, draw threads 
on either side of the worn place, cut 
straight across, and sew together with 
a perfectly flat, even seam. This wiU 
hardly be noticed, and the tablecloth 
will be almost like new. 

When buying new tablecloths get a 
half yard extra material and from 
time to time take a narrow strip off 
one of the ends. This will bring the 
creases in different places and pre- 
vent the cloth from wearing where it 
is creased in the laundry. Ravelings 
taken from these strips will be found 
the best material with which to darn 
frayed places. 

When a tablecloth is past its proper 
use it is still available for many pur- 
poses. The whole parts will make an 
excellent bread cloth and one or more 



tray cloths or napkins suitable for 
lunches and picnics, or for use par- 
ticularly in the fruit season, when the 
best napkins often receive peach and 
other fruit stains that are so difficult 
to remove. The small pieces make the 
• best of silver polishers, as they are so 
soft that they will not scratch the 
finest silver. 

Or figured centerpieces may some- 
times be embroidered, as for stamped 
linen, and made to do duty as doilies 
and lunch cloths. 

Toweling. — Raw linen towels can 
be purchased at surprisingly low 
prices, and under proper care may be 
perfectly bleached in the laundry. Or 
remnants of tablecloth damask may 
be picked up, cut to the proper length, 
and hemstitched all around, or fin- 
ished in drawn work and decorated 
with embroidered initials. For ordi- 
nary uses nothing is more satisfactory 
than wash crash toweUng, which wears 
well, has a good appearance, and saves 
the wear of linen towels. 



CHAPTER VIII 

SEWING AND MENDING DAY 

THE SEWING ROOM— USE AND CARE OF SEWING MACHINE— SEW- 
ING-ROOM CONVENIENCES— MENDING— RENOVATING— MAKING 
OVER— FANCY WORK 



In the regular routine of weekly- 
work it is a good plan to set aside a 
day in which all garments may be 
mended, altered, or made over. The 
day following ironing day is usually 
most convenient. Then the piles of 
stockings that are to be darned, and 
any other articles from the weekly 
wash that may require a " stitch in 
time," can be added to the other 
mending that has accumulated during 
the week, and the whole disposed of. 

THE SEWIN& BOOM 

The woman who has a room in her 
house which can be set apart solely as 
a sewing room knows not how to value 
her blessing. She doesn't probably 
appreciate the importance of such a 




"Set Apart as a Sewing Room." 

room until she comes into possession 
of it; then she wonders how she ever 
lived without it. Where there are 
many children this need is all the 
greater. The sewing room is not 



necessarily a large room, but it is im- 
portant that there be good light so 
that the eyesight may not suffer by 
even the finest work. It is sometimes 
impossible to set aside a small room 
that is light. In this case, if the 
house contains a dark room op the 
upper floor it may be used by pro- 
viding a skylight, which may be done 
at small cost. These inside dark rooms 
are often used as storerooms, and if 
large, may be partitioned off so that 
a portion may still be so employed. 
If possible the sewing room should be 
provided with closets. One of these 
should be fiUed with shelves on which 
to place boxes of various sizes, small 
boxes on the upper shelves, and large 
boxes on the lower ones. 

Closet with Shelves. — ^A good sew- 
ing-room closet may be devised as fol- 
lows: have one broad top shelf which 
holds a collection of strong boxes, 
such as shirt, hat, suit, collar, and 
shoe boxes, as receptacles for all the 
hundred-and-one things employed in 
sewing. A light framework may be 
formed of a few pieces of wood so 
arranged as to support the upper 
boxes, permitting the lower ones to be 
withdrawn easily. Each box should 
be labeled. Shoe boxes are useful for 
rolls of tape, whalebones, and similar 
articles. One box should contain white 
hooks and eyes and another black 
ones. Buttons may be put in another 
small box. Colored sewing silks should 
have a separate box from buttonhole 
twist, and the various spools of black, 
white, and colored thread should have 



234 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 



235 



a box by themselves. Other boxes 
should be labeled for lace, embroid- 
ery, white goods, remnants, canvas, 
bones and casings, shields, linings, vel- 
vets, silks, etc. Have for the lace box 
a. large box labeled "Laces," within 
which are several smaller ones labeled 
edging, Honiton, motifs, insertion, 
beading, etc. The button box may 
also contain a collection of smaller 
boxes, each holding sets of buttons, 
with one button fastened to the cover, 
to indicate its contents. This plan 
will prove a great time-saver to 
anyone in the family who sews or 
mends. 

Shopping list. — ^When any item is 
"out" it should be immediately put 
on the shopping list. A pad for this 
purpose tacked to the closet door, 
with pencil attached, will prove a great 
convenience. When the shopper of the 
family goes to the city her list is then 
always ready. 

In this closet a box containing shoe 
buttons, cords, thread, needles (or the 
cord with needles attached), should 
also find its place. 

Darning Cotton, Needles, etc. — ^A 
convenient receptacle for various col- 
ored darning cottons, darning needles, 
mending balls, etc., is a suitable box. 
It is a good idea also to drop a cheap 
thimble into the darning box. 

Closet for Unfinished Garments.— 
A second closet is desirable in the 
sewing room, which should be provided 
with hooks on which to hang various 
dresses, coats, and other articles dur- 
ing their construction. If it is possi- 
ble to provide the room with a bureau 
or chest of drawers it will be found 
a most convenient receptacle for all 
the little rolls of left-over material 
that are of great value on mending 
day. 

Bureau in the Sewing Boom. — If 
the family is not large, each mem- 
ber may have his or her own " piece 
drawer." Should the family be very 
large and the number of drawers in- 
sufficient, bags of outing flannel, cre- 
tonne, or similar material may be pro- 
vided as a supplement, showing the 
name of each person on the outside. 



and these may be hung below the 
shelves in the closet. 

An Economical Closet. — If neces- 
sary a closet may be constructed in 
the sewing room by nailing shelves to 
the wall in one corner over which a 
curtain may be hung. A second closet 
may be made by nailing to the wall 
a strip of wood bearing hooks, upon 
which to hang tmfinished garments. A 
curtain may also be used to protect 
these. 

Or, instead of shelves built in the 
corner, a large dry-goods box may be 
fitted with shelves, and the top and 
sides covered with green or other col- 
ored oilcloth. Place a rod across the 
front from which may depend a cur- 
tain of flowered silkoUne or any other 
preferred material to hide the accu- 
mulation of sewing. The articles to 
be repaired should be placed on one 
shelf, the material to be made up on 
another, and the sewing basket and 
various boxes on a third shelf. If the 
sewing-room closet is arranged ac- 
cording to the above suggestions it is 
always possible to find the needed 
scrap of lace, silk, or dress furnishing 
upon a moment's notice. 

TTSE ANI) CABE OF SEWING MACHINE 

The Sewing Machine. — The position 
that is to be ocupied by the sewing 
machine should be where the light is 
the best in the room. It is preferable 
that the light fall at the left-hand 
side of the worker. 

The woman who uses the sewing 
machine should know how to treat it 
if she wishes her machine to always 
run light, and to thus save herself 
from backaches. 

Care of the Sewing Machine. — If a 
machine runs hard, one of the best 
remedies is to give it a generous kero- 
sene or gasoline bath. Most of the 
linty accumulations are caught by the 
feed. These may be easily reached by 
removing both the slides and the feed 
plate, which is held in place by a sin- 
gle screw. After these parts are re- 
moved slip off the plate, turn back 
the head of the machine with a small 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



pointed implement, and with a soft 
cloth carefully remove the particles of 
dirt. 

To Glean with Kerosene. — If the 
machine runs hard oil it generously 
with kerosene, using from a half pint 
to a pint. Run it rapidly for a few 
minutes, then with a piece of new 
cheese cloth carefully rub off the kero- 
sene and oil again with machine oil. 
The kerosene cuts away the gummed 
oil, and the machine oil lubricates the 
parts. 

To Clean with Gasoline. — Nothing 
is better than gasoline to limber up a 
sewing machine. Apply the gasoline 
as above recommended for kerosene, 
after which carefully rub off and ap- 
ply machine oil. 

To Oil a Sewing Uachine. — It is 
surprising that some machines wiU 
sew at all, they are so seldom oiled or 
cleaned. 

Put a few drops of oil in all the 
oil holes, run the machine rapidly, 
wipe off all surplus oil outside the oil 
holes, and the machine is ready for 
use. Two minutes will suffice for the 
operation. 

Sewing-machine Troubles. — The 
prevailing difficulty in using sewing 
machines is the breaking of the thread. 
Other disarrangements seem easy to 
adjust, even to a person who has used 
a machine but a few weeks or perhaps 
days. The breaking, which is mostly 
with the upper thread, may be caused 
by an imperfect adjustment of the 
tension; this is usually the case with 
new machines. But with those that 
have been in use several months the 
breaking (if the tension is right) is 
produced by the threads drawing into 
the guides, so that when a swelled 
place in the thread cannot pass the 
narrow groove, which is the exact 
width of the thread, it breaks. This 
break takes place anywhere from the 
point of the needle back to the grooved 
guide. As the breakage is usually 
near the needle, the real cause is gen- 
erally overlooked. Many machines are 
laid aside on account of this continual 
breaking when, if the cause had been 
understood, the guide holes might 



have been smoothed with a small file 
and the trouble ended. 

If a sewing machine gets into a 
" mood " and refuses to budge, no 
matter what the stuff is nor how it is 
presented, thick or thin, single or 
double, lay a slip of paper each side 
the seam, being careful to put it un- 
der the presser foot, and sew with an 
even, steady force. The paper can be 
removed after sewing. 

SEWING-BOOU CONVENIENCES 

A gas or oil stove to heat irons for 
pressing is an added convenience to 
the sewing room. Two irons should 
be kept in the sewing room so as not 
to interfere with the laundry irons. 

A Skirt Board and a Narrow Sleeve 
Board are also necessities. When not 
in use, the closet in which unfinished 
garments are hung is a handy place 
for keeping all such conveniences. 

The Worktable. — 'A convenient cut- 
ting table is made with leaves that 
may be dropped when the cutting is 
finished, and should be as large as the 
size of the room will allow. If the 
room is small, a folding table a yard 
long may take the place of the larger 
one. 

A Handy Sewing Table may be 
made by using the legs of an old ordi- 
nary sewing table. 

Or have the legs made to allow for 
a top 8 feet long by 3 feet wide. The 
top should consist of two pieces of 
equal length with a. difference of J of 
an inch in thickness, the thinner piece 
to be built up with felt or blotting 
paper to match the thicker, thus mak- 
ing the table half felt covered and 
half bare wood. All pressing can 
then be done on the felt without leav- 
ing unsightly marks. All work re- 
quiring a hard surface may be done 
on the plain uncovered wood, and the 
length of the table allows for cut- 
ting garments of any dimensions. 
The felt keeps the materials from 
slipping, as they wiU do on a smooth 
table. 

The Workbasket.— The workbasket 
should be equipped with several pairs 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 



237 



of sharp scissors, needles of various 
sizes for both fine and coarse work, 
and thread of different numbers and 
colors. Work cannot be done in a. 
creditable manner unless one is in pos- 
session of the needful tools. 

A well-equipped sewing room takes 
away much of the drudgery of mend- 
ing day. During the week articles 
will have accumulated in the sewing 
basket to be mended or renovated, 
and the many conveniences of the sew- 
ing room will come into play during 
the weekly process of putting the 
various family garments in repair. 

Patterns. — Patterns may be in de- 
mand at any moment, hence a con- 
venient holder should be provided. 
This may be made of a stout, short 
box divided into compartments, one 
for each member of the family. The 
compartments are made by gluing in 
pieces of cardboard. Arrange the pat- 
terns on their sides so that they may 
be examined like a card index without 
removing the box. Patterns should be 
gone over once or twice a year in 
order to discard those that have gone 
out of fashion, and hence will not 
be used again. When discarding pat- 
terns, those made of soft paper should 
not be thrown away, as they are use- 
ful for shaving paper, polishing mir- 
rors, glass, silver, etc. 

Or patterns may be kept intact by 
a series of pockets made in the fol- 
lowing manner: take two yards of 
any suitable goods such as gingham 
or cretonne; tear it in half; cut one 
yard into strips 9 inches wide, hem- 
ming one edge; stitch the strips 
lengthwise, dividing the whole into 
five strips, making four 6 inches wide 
and th? fifth 3 inches wide. Sew these 
strips to the remaining yard, thus 
making sixteen pockets 9 by 6 inches, 
and three pockets 9 by 3 inches. Label 
the large pockets shirt waists, shirts, 
dresses, aprons, etc. The labeling may 
be done with India ink. A convenient 
place for this pattern receptacle is the 
inside of the closet door. 

Bags. — No conveniences of the sew- 
ing room are more to be valued than 
bags, which may be used for various 



purposes, such as scrap bags, bags for 
waste thread, button bags, sewing 
bags, etc. 

Scrap Bags. — When the annual 
spring cleaning is finished all pieces 
of cloth that have accumulated during 
the winter should be sorted and put 
in bags labeled to denote their con- 
tents. One bag may be marked calico, 
another linings, another silk, and so 
on. The labeling may be done with 
India ink, or by writing on a small 
slip of paper pasted on the outside 
of each bag. If odd pieces of cloth 
are cared for in this manner, it enables 
one to lay the hand upon any desired 
article at a moment's notice when do- 
ing the weekly mending. The top of 
the bag should be finished with casing 
and draw string, so as to hang on a 
hook in the closet. 

Bags for Waste Thread. — It is of- 
ten a tedious task to pick up the waste 
threads and cuttings after a day's 
sewing. This arduous duty may be 
greatly lessened by hanging a small 
basket or open-mouthed bag near the 
sewing machine into which cuttings 
and threads may be dropped. 

Button Bags. — Almost every gar- 
ment calls for a button on mending 
day. This constant demand makes it 
very convenient to have them near at 
hand. A button bag may be made by 
taking a circular piece of goods, hem- 
ming it all around, and crocheting an 
edge around it with thread or floss. 
Run a cord through the floss, and 
fasten with a round button, then draw 
up the cord and wind it several times 
around. This prevents the contents 
from spilling into the workbasket. 

A classified arrangement of the but- 
tons is both a necessity and a time- 
saving device. A box is usually pro- 
vided for this purpose and buttons of 
the same kind run on a string. This 
enables one to find the button needed 
without trouble. 

Sewing and Handkerchief Bags. — 
Sewing bags, handkerchief bags, etc., 
are usually made with a. round bot- 
tom, cardboard being used for the 
purpose. This soon breaks and often 
the bag is a wreck before it is even 



238 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



soiled. A tin bottom is much more 
durable and may be obtained from 
the tin lids foimd under the cover of 
lard pails. The ridge may be flattened 
with a hammer. Several sizes may 
be obtained from three-pound, five- 
pound, and ten-pound pails. 

Needles. — If needles are left in the 
paper in which they are bought, and 
carelessly dropped into the wastebas- 
ket, it often happens that the very 
size needle one wishes to use is lying 
loose in the basket, and hence not 
discernible. Therefore it is advisable 
to place needles of different sizes in 
needlebooks. 

Flannel should not be used in 
needlebooks because the sulphur used 
in its preparation will rust the needles. 
Fine linen or chamois leather is to be 
preferred. 

To Prevent Needles from Rusting. 
— ^Those who live in damp regions find 
great difficulty in keeping their sew- 
ing-machine and other needles from 
becoming covered with rust. A good 
preventive is to put the needles in a 
suitable cloth thoroughly saturated 
with machine oil. Soak in oil the 
papers in which sewing needles come. 
These may then be kept in a small tin 
can or box so as to protect the ma- 
chine drawer. 

To Sharpen Uachine Needles. — The 
points of machine needles often be- 
come bent or blunt by striking upon 
the feed plate. They may be sharp- 
ened and made as good as new by 
rubbing them over a small hone for 
that purpose, which can be had at 
any hardware store. A good sub- 
stitute for the needle hone is to re- 
volve the point of the needle upon 
the smooth side of a piece of hand 
pumice. 

Picking Up Scissors and Needles. 
— One is very apt to drop scissors and 
needles upon the floor. The annoy- 
ance and labor of constantly picking 
them up may be greatly lessened by 
attaching a horseshoe magnet to a 
long cord or ribbon. Give this a place 
in your workbasket and it is an ever- 
ready helper when these articles fall 
on the floor. Invalids and elderly 



ladies wUl find this little convenience 
an especial boon. 

Threading Needles. — The old way 
was to thread a lot of needles and 
stick them in a cushion. This seemed 
to be a great time saver, when the 
busy woman surveyed her cushion cov- 
ered with a half dozen or more needles, 
with their streams of thread trailing 
over it. But when the threads became 
tangled, the time-saving device fell 
flat. A much better way is to thread 
a nvunber of needles on a spool of 
thread, leaving a few inches imrolled, 
so that they will not fall off. When 
a needle full of thread is wanted, all 
the needles but one may be pushed 
back as the' thread is unroUed to al- 
low the breaking off of any length of 
thread. Many women thread a needle 
before working the thread off the 
spool, as it prevents the thread from 
snarling. 

Threading a Darning Needle. — 
Draw the cotton tight across the point 
of the needle and put the thread 
double through the eye of the needle. 

Care of Thread. — There are many 
devices for keeping intact spools of 
thread. The following is one of the 
most convenient: cut two elliptical 
(egg-shaped) pieces of cardboard, 
covering both sides of them with some 
pretty colored material. Pieces of 
cardboard 3| inches in length will hold 
in place three spools of thread. After 
covering the cardboard puncture three 
holes through the middle of each 
board. Take three spools of thread 
of different sizes, place the coarsest 
at the largest end, graduating them 
according to size of spool, and lace 
a piece of baby ribbon or bobbin tape, 
first through one side of the ellipse, 
then through the spool and the second 
piece of cardboard, drawing it in turn 
through a second spool, and the mid- 
dle hole of the second cardboard, and 
so on until the three spools are held 
in place. Bring the ends of the rib- 
bon or tape together in the center of 
the ellipse, slipping one end over the 
small loop caused by running the 
thread through the middle hole, and 
tie in a bow. This will be found to 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 



be one of the most convenient devices 
for always keeping the thread in 
place, and is small enough to drop 
into the workbasket, where it may be 
kept clean. If it is desired to join 
more than three spools, the pieces of 
cardboard may be cut larger. 

Or a convenient device for holding 
thread may be made by driving nails 
into a piece of wood made as a shelf 
over the machine, or it may be made 
to fit the bottom of the machine 
drawer. The spools of thread can be 
kept on the naUs, sorted according to 
size and color. This or any similar 
arrangement saves both time and pa- 
tience. 

Scissors. — ^There is no article in the 
household more useful than the scis- 
sors, and the sewing room should be 
well fitted out with various sizes of 
scissors as follows: 

Cutting Scissors. — A pair of ban- 
dage scissors like those used by sur- 
geons is useful when trimming the 
necks and armholes of dresses, be- 
cause there is no danger of sharp 
points being thrust into the skin. 

Scissors with Long Blades are pre- 
ferred for cutting heavy cloth or 
woolen fabrics, and indeed all gar- 
ments where there are long lines to be 
followed. 

Scissors for Cutting Waists. — 
Waists and children's garments, where 
the curves are short and numerous, are 
much more conveniently cut out when 
the blades of the scissors are of 
mediiun length. 

Embroidery Scissors. — For trim- 
ming the edges of embroidery, snip- 
ping threads, and cutting out goods 
from close corners, fine, slender, deli- 
cately pointed scissors are found the 
best. 

Buttonhole Scissors. — Embroidery 
scissors may also be used in place of 
buttonhole scissors. Buttonhole scis- 
sors, however, are a great convenience 
in the sewing room. 

To Silence Noisy Scissors. — When 
one has much cutting to do the con- 
stant squeaking of the scissors is very 
annoying. It is a simple matter, 
however, tb correct this by breathing 



into the open hii^ge, after which open 
and close the scissors several times. 

Dull Scissors. — If it is not con- 
venient to send your scissors to a scis- 
sors grinder, there are simple devices 
by which you may sharpen them. 

Open the scissors around the neck 
of a small bottle and work them vigor- 
ously> for a few minutes. 

Or open the scissors, hold them 
firmly against the table or machine, 
and with an ordinary file, not too 
coarse, file both blades just as if you 
were trying to take the edge off. If 
your scissors are of good quality, you 
will find this very satisfactory. 

Pins. — Every housewife, no doubt, 
has had some trouble in keeping track 
of her pins when at the machine, or 
otherwise engaged in sewing. The 
sewing room should, therefore, be 
equipped with conveniences for taking 
care of these useful little articles. 
Otherwise a great many may be lost 
during a day's sewing or mending. 

One very simple way of keeping 
pins ever ready and at hand is to at- 
tach a little piece of flannel or canvas 
to the spool holder, in which to stick 
pins. If your spool holder is a de- 
vice which rests upon your sewing, 
then your pins are convenient. If it 
be a convenience attached to the ma- 
chine you have your pins at hand 
when you sit down to stitch. 

Or a small pincushion may be hung 
from the tension of the sewing ma- 
chine. 

Or a cushion two or three inches in 
length may be made of some pretty 
muslin or flannel goods and pinned 
to your waist near the shoulder. This 
last device provides you with pins, 
whether you are at the machine or 
sewing in any other part of the house. 

A Useful Work Case. — There is 
nothing more charming, useful, or con- 
venient than the old-fashioned house- 
wife our grandmothers used, equipped 
with pockets for scissors, buttons, 
thread, and thimblesi with cushions at- 
tached for needles and pins. This 
may be carried to any part of the 
house, in or out of the sewing room, 
and is always ready. 



240 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Convenient Tape Measure. — If a 
yard measure is not already marked 
off on your machine, time is saved if 
you mark one off for yourself. A very 
easy way to do it is to take as many 
common pins as you will need, and 
cut them about half an inch below the 
head. Measure a yard off on your 
machine. Drive one of the pin heads 
into the wood, then one at the half, 
third, fourth, and eighth of a yard. 
This does not deface the machine, is 
not conspicuous, and unless you have 
" a place for everything and every- 
thing in its place," will save time when 
the tape measure is mislaid or lost. 

Six-inch Rule. — For measuring 
hems or for any measurement where 
six inches or less is desired, a six-inch 
rule is a convenient article to have in 
your workbasket. 

Crayon as a Marker. — Sometimes 
when you are using your tucker on 
your sewing machine the marker will 
not show on the goods to be tucked. 
If you rub a piece of crayon over the 
marker the line will be perfectly dis- 
tinct. 

To Renovate a Tape Measure. — If 
your tape measure is still good and 
the figures have become dim, you can 
trace them over with a fine-pointed 
brush and India ink. 

Bust Form. — It does not always hap- 
pen that there is another woman in 
the house on whom to fit a new gar- 
ment or a lining with which to reno- 
vate an old waist. If the woman who 
does her own sewing once becomes 
possessor of a bust form, she wiU 
wonder how it was possible to have 
done without it. These articles cov- 
ered with black jersey and very light 
in weight can be had in aU sizes at 
any department store or mail-order 
establishment for about SO cents. It 
is not only possible with a bust form 
to fit your own waist but, owing to 
the fact that it extends about 13 
inches below the waist, to have the 
added advantage of well-shaped hips 
over which to drape skirts. 

Clothes Hints. — If it were possible 
to equip the sewing room with such 
conveniences as we have suggested. 



and many other little devices, mend- 
ing day would be less dreaded. And 
the labor would be further lightened 
if every member of the family would 
heed the following cautions about 
their clothing: 

Give your clothes an occasional 
vacation. 

Don't carry heavy articles in coat 
or trousers pockets; or, if they must 
be carried thus, empty the pockets 
before the garments are laid away. 

Don't wear your street jacket dur- 
ing business hours. 

Don't be pasBimonious in the qual- 
ity or quantity of your clothes. 

Don't spoil the shape of your 
trousers by suspending them by the 
buckle ; fold them and hang them over 
a rod, or lay them flat on a shelf or 
in a bureau drawer. 

Don't wear the same shoes every 
day if you can avoid it. 

Don't neglect to brush every article 
of outside clothing before laying it 
aside. 

Don't wear the nap off soft cloth 
by using a whisk broom; use a brush. 

Don't forget to elude moths by 
wrapping in newspapers freshly print- 
ed the garments you lay away. 

Don't let a stain remain with the 
hope that it wUl disappear; the older 
the stain the harder it is to remove. 

Don't plunge your foot into a sock; 
turn the upper part of the sock down 
before inserting the foot, then draw 
it on easily and gently. 

Don't suspend your jacket by a 
loop; drape it over a hanger. 

Don't spoil the shape of your pock- 
ets by thrusting your hands into them 
constantly. 

MENDIITG 

Garments that are neatly mended 
wiU last much longer than those care- 
lessly repaired. It is impossible, there- 
fore, to expend too much pains on this 
homely and prosaic occupation. There 
are many American women who think 
that it is not economy to spend much 
time in mending. In Paris some years 
ago the demand for mending became 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 



241 



so graat that it became a trade, and 
finally developed into an art. The 
French woman has great love for her 
clothes, and her first wish is to make 
them as beautiful and perfect as pos- 
sible. She regards it as a profanation 
to let her garments become defaced 
with spot or tear. If she finds it be- 
yond her skill to repair a torn or 
worn garment, she immediately hur- 
ries it off to the woman whose special 
business is to make a garment " as 
good as new." These experts can 
mend a rent or set in a piece so skill- 
fully that the " little dress tragedies " 
are soon forgotten. To the French 
woman, therefore, it is not only econ- 
omy to have a garment mended, but 
the art of caring for things with ex- 
quisite nicety bespeaks for her an ele- 
gance which she may not otherwise 
seem to possess. 

When mending day comes around 
the busy woman may find it hard to 
recall the things that need attention. 
Her memory may be assisted by re- 
cording in a small blank book the arti- 
cles that have been put out of service 
through rents or tears or lack of but- 
tons and the like. Then when mend- 
ing day comes round the memoran- 
dum may be consulted. 

In making up garments some of the 
material of each should be reserved 
and put in one of the numerous bags 
that have their place in the sewing 
room or attic closet. On ironing day 
all articles that need mending should 
be sent to the sewing room to await 
their turn on mending day. Anything 
that does not find its way to the reg- 
ular weekly wash should be periodi- 
cally examined, all rents sewed up, 
stains removed, and any other neces- 
sary renovation attended to during 
the regular weekly routine. 

The table linen should be carefvilly 
examined before laying away. If tow- 
els are wearing thin in the middle they 
may be cut in halves, the two outer 
edges sewed together, and rehemmed. 
The woman who systematically mends 
every article of the household will 
prove true the well-known aphorism 
that " a stitch in time saves nine." 



Mending Pieces. — A large patent 
envelope with a sample bit pinned to 
the outside is a good receptacle for 
, mending pieces, the advantages beingi 
that moths cannot get at woolen ones, 
and that dust is kept out. 

Way to Provide ilending Pieces. — 
It often happens in making wash gar- 
ments that only the tiniest bits are 
left over. Some women provide mend-i^ 
ing pieces by making an apron of the 
same material as the dress. Then 
when the sleeves or other worn places 
must be renewed, the slightly faded 
and partly worn apron may be util- 
ized, and the patch wiU not be con- 
spicuous. 

Or, when a wash dress goes to the 
laundry, bits of the goods may be 
basted on the wrong side of the 
skirt so that they wiU fade evenly 
and come out the same color as the; 
garment. 

Mending Tissue. — If court plaster 
or mending tissue is used instead of 
thread, a rent in cloth may be mended 
so that it will be hard to detect. Lay 
the cloth upon a, smooth, flat surface, 
stick a pin perpendicularly into it so 
as to hold the edges firmly together, 
but not too close to the tear; about 
three fourths of an inch away is a 
good distance. Apply court plaster 
which has been well moistened, and 
allow it to stand long enough to be- 
come sticky rather than wet. Care- 
fully rub the dress goods against the 
court plaster until every particle of 
the surface adheres. Then press the 
spot with a moderately hot iron 
through a piece of muslin or tissue 
paper. If any frayed threads remain, 
carefully clip them off with sharp 
scissors. 

Darning on Woolen Goods. — Silk or 
cotton thread should never be used to 
darn woolen goods. To make an in- 
visible darn use ravelings from the 
goods to be darned. After carefully 
darning the edges, turn the face up, 
dampen the spot, place a piece of 
white tissue paper over it, and hold 
it against the face of a moderately 
hot iron. When almost dry carefully 
place the garment on an ironing board 



242 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



or table and give one or two good 
thumps with the iron. 

Handing: White Goods and Deli- 
cate Fabrics. — ^When mending white 
goods, the piece with which you mend 
should be so large that when the arti- 
cle is washed the patch will not tear 
out. 

A good way to make a neat job is 
to slip the goods to be mended over 
an embroidery hoop to hold it firm. 
This will enable you to do the work 
very neatly and quickly. 

To Mend Moth-eaten Garments. — 
When a silk or woolen garment is 
badly moth-eaten it is not always pos- 
sible to darn the hole with raveUngs 
from the fabric. In such cases place 
a small patch of the material under 
the hole and darn carefully around 
the edges of the hole on the right side 
with ravelings. Then press with a 
moderately hot iron, putting first a 
damp cloth and then a piece of dry 
tissue paper between the cloth and the 
iron. 

Waste Silk. — The loose ends of 
spool silk are excellent for mending 
and may be placed in a little bag by 
the workbox. 

Darning by Machine. — Baste a 
piece of net on the wrong side of the 
garment to be mended. Cut a square 
or oblong hole. Then with No. 100 
thread on the machine sew back and 
forth, being careful that the rows of 
stitching come very close together. 
Never take the needle out of the 
goods. After stitching one way across 
the hole, stitch in the contrary direc- 
tion, always following the weave of 
the material. 

Mending Men's and Boys' Clothes. 
— It is a very difficult task to mend 
men's outside garments so that the 
darns will not deface them. First, 
place the mending scrap smoothly un- 
der the three-cornered or other hole 
to be mended. Then thread a needle 
with silk thread the same shade as 
the goods, insert it half an inch from 
the tear, and draw edgewise through 
the thickness of the cloth about half 
an inch on the other side, thus draw- 
ing the edges together. Then put the 



needle in the same hole from which it 
has just been brought out, turn it a 
little, and pass through the cloth so 
as to bring iC out half an inch on the 
other side of the tear. If the cloth is 
rather heavy, it is possible to avoid 
having the thread come to the surface, 
except when the needle is brought 
through to turn. So continue and 
thus make an invisible darn. 

When this is done place a wet cloth 
over the goods and press with a hot 
iron. Follow with a dry cloth. Do 
not allow the iron to stay on it imtil 
the first cloth is entirely dry. This 
prevents the mended spot having a 
shiny appearance. 

Boys' Trousers. — Boys' trousers 
may be quickly mended with gum tis- 
sue. If every mother knew the value 
of this tissue she would save herself 
much work by using it, and would 
have the satisfaction of always seeing 
a neat mend. Boys' trousers may also 
be mended on the machine after the 
fashion mentioned in " Mending on 
the Machine," first being careful to 
baste a strong piece of material 
smoothly under the thin places. Fine 
thread should be used the same shade 
as the goods for this purpose. The 
stitch should be rather short. 

Silk Dresses. — ^When the sleeves of a 
silk dress become thin it will last much 
longer if they are ripped out and new 
ones put in. It is an advantage, also, 
to treat worn breadths of the skirt 
in the same way. 

Mending Fringe. — Torn fringe may 
be renewed by taking a piece of card- 
board and stiff paper as wide and as 
long as the fringe. Wind suitable 
thread evenly and closely around the 
cardboard, then paste this along the 
edge of the article in place of the 
worn fringe and stitch on by ma- 
chine. If one strip of cardboard is 
insufficient make more strips and 
paste them close together. The card- 
board may be torn out when fin- 
ished, leaving the thread to form the 
fringe. 

Mending lace. — Crochet a long, 
loose chain or buttonhole stitch along 
the worn edges of the lace with thread 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 



243 



to match its quality and color. For 
cream lace use unbleached linen thread, 
or tint the spool by dipping it in 
strong coffee. 

Mending Waists. — It is not neces- 
sary to discard a lingerie waist be- 
cause the trimming has given way. 
Draw the torn pieces together first, 
then baste a piece of white wash net 
under the entire yoke and machine 
stitch with very fine thread. Cut away 
the surplus net, allowing a small mar- 
gin near the stitching to prevent pull- 
ing out when latmdered. 

Sleeves. — The worn seams of sleeves 
may be strengthened by buttonholing 
over them with darning silk the color 
of the waist. This comes on spools 
the same as ordinary sewing silk, but 
is softer and may be split. 

Uending Corsets. — The nicest way 
to mend a broken corset is to bind 
where it may be broken with a small 
piece of chamois skin. 

Or, when the waist begins to wear 
through, it may be mended neatly on 
the machine. " Hand patches " al- 
ways look clumsy, but strips of cloth 
may be stitched on it, doubling over 
the worn places without in the least 
marring the garment. Stitch the strips 
the full length of the casings, and 
they will not only serve their special 
purpose, but will add months to the 
wear of the corset 

Uending Gloves. — To mend gloves 
neatly if they are torn or ripped, first 
buttonhole stitch around the rent, not 
so close as in a buttonhole; then over- 
cast, taking up the threads of the 
buttonhole on the edge and draw the 
edges carefully together. 

Or holes as well as rips in gloves 
may be mended in the same way also, 
with this difference: after buttonhol-' 
ing around the rent, gradually close 
up the hole by buttonholing inside 
of the first row of buttonholing. When 
the hole finally becomes filled you 
have a tiny circle of embroidery made 
with thread to match the gloves. Thus 
what was an unsightly hole becomes 
a neat and attractive embroidered 
spot upon the glove. 

Or the gloves may be mended with 



a piece of court plaster moistened and 
pasted on the wrong side. Be care- 
ful to cut off the corners of the plas- 
ter and slit its edges in order to make 
it fit the part of the glove to be 
mended. 

Thread for Mending Gloves. — In- 
stead of mending gloves with sUk to 
match them as is the usual custom, l 
try good cotton thread the color of I 
the gloves. You will find it will not 
be so noticeable as silk thread. 

Mending Skirts. — The part of a 
skirt which needs most constant at- 
tention and repair is, perhaps, the 
bottom. A skirt may catch on the 
heels, tearing off the braid and part 
of the goods, or the edges may be- 
come worn, or the braid itself become 
frayed. 

Skirt Bindings. — There are a num- 
ber of ways to overcome the untidy 
appearance of a skirt with worn edges. 
One good way is, when the edge be- 
comes frayed, to sew skirt protector 
upon it. The hem is not necessary as 
the worn edges unite with those of 
the binding. 

Or, when the skirt braid has be- 
come worn on the edge, it may be 
ripped off and reversed, turning the 
worn part to the top and the fresh 
edge to the bottom of the skirt. After 
pressing your skirt under a damp 
cloth you wUl find you have a neat 
finish, and one braid will thus give 
the wear of two. 

Or the hem may be turned up and 
stitched down outside instead of on 
the inside. 

Mending Stockings. — A woman may 
be an adept at mending coats, trou- 
sers, and dresses, and indeed almost 
every garment worn by her family, 
and yet be unable to mend stockings 
so that they wUl not torment tender 
feet. It is a great art to be able to 
mend stockings neatly. There are al- 
most as many ways of filling up the 
holes as there are colors of stockings, 
and each one may be more or less 
comfortable if only a little care is 
taken in sewing the rent, putting in 
place the patch, or filling the hole 
with thread. 



244 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



To Darn Stockings on a Sewing 
Kachine. — Mending stockings on a 
sewing machine saves time greatly, 
but is a very difficult task to perform. 
One of the simplest ways of doing so 
is to stretch the stocking tightly over 
two small embroidery hoops, being 
careful to have the hole as near the 
center as possible. Then cut away the 
ragged edges with sharp scissors. Re- 
move the presser foot of the machine 
and place the hole under the needle. 
Then stitch back and forth, as in the 
case of darning fabrics on the ma- 
chine. If care is taken the darn is 
much neater and smoother and far 
more quickly done than any other. 
Sewing thread may be used, but fine 
darning cotton is preferable. The 
hoops may be either metal or common 
embroidery hoops. 

To Hand Stockings by Hand. — If 
the hole is large, a convenient way is 
to baste carefully over the hole on 
the wrong side a piece of coarse net, 
then darn back and forth, taking your 
stitches in and out of the net, yet 
darn as close as ordinarily. The net 
acts as a stay to the soft darning 
thread. 

Or, if the hole is large, run a thread 
all around it first, and draw it up 
somewhat, but of course not enough 
to pucker. The hole is not only made 
smaller by this operation, but the darn 
is strengthened. 

Mending Stockings with a Crochet 
Needle. — The most expert darn, which 
requires the greatest skill and is also 
the easiest on the feet, is to fasten 
to the stitches that have become bro- 
ken a single strand of darning thread 
to match the thread of which the 
stocking is woven. Then crochet a 
smooth chain of sufficient length to 
reach across the opening, and fasten 
in the broken thread on the opposite 
side of the hole. Continue this proc- 
ess back and forth each time, catch- 
ing the thread in the chain already 
made. When the hole is flUed you 
have a surface as smooth as the orig- 
inal fabric of the stocking itself. 

Darning Woolen Stockings. — When 
darning a woolen stocking it is well 



to go over the break the first time 
with coarse cotton or sewing silk. 
Then make a coarse layer of good 
woolen yarn; this insures a smooth 
and substantial darn. 

Darning with Crechet Stitch. — An- 
other method, which is not quite so 
expert nor so satisfactory in the mat- 
ter of comfort, is to first cut away 
the worn edges of the hole until you 
reach strong material. Then, with 
wool or cotton of suitable weight 
crochet round the edge, putting 
the hook through the material. Con- 
tinue this process round and round, 
each time narrowing to give the 
proper shape, until the opening is 
closed. 

Darning Thread. — When darning 
black stockings use silkatine, as it is 
more durable than yarn. This thread 
is also best for fancy colored stock- 
ings, as it is easier to match the color 
of the stocking and makes a more 
durable darn. 

Or use fancy crochet cotton, which 
is not quite so expensive as the regu- 
lar darning cotton and makes a, very 
good darn. 

Or use black sUk, which comes for 
the purpose and makes the neatest 
darn for black stockings. 

Darning Ball. — The darning ball, 
which may be purchased at any de- 
partment store, is a white or black 
china egg; but there are many home 
devices which are found in many cases 
far more satisfactory. For instance, 
in the country where gourds are grown 
nothing is better, as they are number- 
less in shape and size. 

RENOVATIUG 

Almost always the garment which 
is to be mended requires more or less 
renovation before it is ready for serv- 
ice again. In the case of cotton fab- 
rics the laundry does the work. In 
silks, woolens, or velvets a deft hand 
and cleansing fluid, a damp cloth and 
an iron are necessary. 

To Kestore the Gloss Finish on 
Woolen Goods. — First, brush the cloth 
the way of the weave with a brurfi 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 



245 



dipped in weak gum water. Then 
carefully place over it a sheet of paper 
or a piece of cloth, allowing no wrin- 
kles either in the cloth or the cover- 
ing, and put it under a weight or in 
a screw press until dry. 

To Restore Creased Velvet. — ^Velvet 
creases badly when folded for trim- 
ming, and cannot be used again until 
the creases are removed. A simple 
way to do this is to procure a wide 
piece of heavy cardboard and stretch 
the velvet tightly upon it, overlapping 
as little as possible. Put the card- 
board in a paper bag, paste the top 
to keep out the dust, set it on the 
shelf above the kitchen range, and let 
it remain there until the heat raises 
the pile. 

Or wet a cloth and lay it on a hot 
iron, holding the velvet over the steam 
which rises. 

Or stretch the velvet until it is taut 
on a light wooden frame made, if 
possible, the size of the piece to be 
renovated and hold it over the steam 
of a boiling kettle. This last proc- 
ess has, perhaps, the most durable 
effect. 

To Raise the Nap on Cloth. — The 
article should be well cleaned, after 
which soak it in cold water for half 
an hour, put it on a board, and rub 
the threadbare parts with a hatter's 
card filled with flocks or a teasel 
brush. A prickly thistle will answer 
the same purpose. When the nap is 
raised, lay it the right way and hang 
the garment up to dry. In renova- 
ting clothes the elbows, collars, and 
cuffs are often so worn as to make 
the garment look shabby. By the 
above process it may be completely 
rej uvenated. 

To Clean a JVhite Hackintosh. — A 
white mackintosh is very easily soiled 
and may be cleaned with soap and 
water. But if it is extremely dirty a 
soft scrubbing brush with yellow soap 
may be used. Rub on both sides until 
the dirt is removed, then dip in three 
or four waters until the soap is rinsed 
off and hang in the air without wring- 
ing. Mud stains around the bottom 
are very difficult to remove and the 



garment may have to be sent to a 
cleaner. But do not use benzine or 
gasoline, ^s they will dissolve the rub- 
ber. 

Trimmings. — On renovation day 
trimmings also come in for their share 
of attention. 

To Stiffen Silk for Trimmings. — To 
renovate a piece of silk that has lost 
its stiffness, sponge the surface with 
a weak solution of gum arable, or with 
equal parts of ale and water. To 
prevent its becoming glossy iron while 
damp on the wrong side. 

MAKING OVER 

To Iiengthen a Skirt. — To make 
a girl's wash skirts and petticoats 
keep pace with her rapid growth, 
have on hand a few yards of in- 
sertion. If this is too expensive or 
is unsuitable, then it is possible to 
make an attractive band by taking 
a strip an inch to two inches wide of 
any plain cotton goods, or, if it is a 
colored skirt to be lengthened, then a 
strip to match the skirt. Hem on each 
side and ornament with rows of feath- 
er stitching, with a row of French 
knots through the middle. For a plain 
skirt cut about one inch above the 
hem, placing this narrow band of in- 
sertion or made strip between. Two 
or more such bands may be employed 
if desired or necessary. If it be a 
trimmed or tucked skirt, cut off above 
the tucks to allow for a seam and the 
width of the tuck and insert bands. 

Or make a new top and sew above 
the tucks. Take up the tuck on the 
right side with the seam on the folded 
edge and stitch to match the other 
tucks. 

To Hake Over Sleeves. — One season 
it becomes necessary to shorten the 
sleeves, another to lengthen them. If 
the sleeves are to be made short, a 
good way is to cut out a piece just 
above the elbow. Hide the seam by 
a fold that resembles a tuck. Make 
two or more tucks, and you have a 
pretty sleeve with much less trouble 
than removing them from the shoul- 
ders. 



246 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Aprons. — The first place a work 
apron gives way is near tlie waist 
binding, because of the constant rub- 
bing against the table. When mak- 
ing a work apron, if a double thick- 
ness is placed underneath in front 
from the waist binding down about 
12 inches and stitched at the lower 
edge, the apron will last as long 
again. 

Or, if this is not done and the apron 
becomes thin, cut it in half through 
the middle, turn it end for end, and 
stitch the two outer edges together, 
making a seam down the front; face 
the worn edges, which now become the 
outer edges, stitch what was hereto- 
fore the bottom in the band, and you 
have an apron rehabilitated. 

Collars. — A coat may have found 
its way to the sewing room for mend- 
ing day. The buttons have been sewed 
on, the rents mended, and still the 
coUar remains creased. A very simple 
process wiU add the finishing touch 
and make it worth the time it takes. 
Take a piece of very thin muslin, 
brush it lightly with white of egg, 
and lay it over the creases on the 
wrong side. Press lightly with a warm 
iron, and the creases will disappear. 
The collar will stand stiffer than was 
the original canvas. 

Hints for Kaking Over. — In mak- 
ing over garments much depends on 
care in renovating the material. First 
rip the garment entirely apart, allow- 
img no two pieces to remain joined. 
Then pick out every thread carefully. 
Lay each piece separately on a table 
and brush carefully. 

If there are stains or spots be sure 
that they are removed. The cleaning 
must be thorough or the fact that the 
article is made over wiU be very ap- 
parent. 

If the material is faded have it 
dyed. Black dresses that are not 
worn, but faded, will look like new 
after they have been dipped in dye. 
When redyeing an article, put the new 
pieces of the material along with the 
old in the dye. Remember that any 
color will take black dye. 

It often happens that goods are 



faded on one side, but the color is 
perfectly fresh on the other. If the 
weave is such that the reverse side 
may be used, turn the goods and make 
them up with the fresh side out. 

Some goods, such as cashmere and 
silk, may be put in the tub and washed 
in the usual way, being careful, of 
course, to thoroughly dust them 
first. They should be ironed on the 
wrong side before they are dry with 
an iron not too hot, and pressed imtil 
dry. 

Wheat bran put in the water in 
which you wash black goods greatly 
improves them. 

Sometimes, when using ammonia to 
get out grease, the color is taken out. 
This you can restore by applying care- 
fully a weak solution of oxalic acid 
and water. Stop as soon as the color 
returns. 

Light-colored goods and figured 
fabrics may be sponged with warm 
water, alcohol, or gasoline. Very light 
colors should be sponged on the wrong 
side of the goods, taking care that 
every fiber is thoroughly dampened. 
Go over every piece separately and 
carefully. 

Decide the style of garment you 
wish to fashion of your pieces, get a 
pattern, and lay it carefully on your 
goods to see if you have a sufficient 
quantity, and if not, ascertain how 
much material of another kind you 
vrill require, and how far trimming 
will go to make up the deficiency in 
goods. You may find in cutting that 
a considerable amount of piecing is 
required. Then cut your garment as 
completely out of the goods as is pos- 
sible, fit your piecings on to the pat- 
tern, pin them together, and lay them 
aside. Stitch and press all the piec- 
ings, and proceed as with a new 
garment. Arrange the trimming as 
far as possible so that it will cover 
the necessary piecings and tucks. 
When the garment is finished it will 
be easy enough to see just what style 
of trimming will be necessary to cover 
deficiencies. 

At the beginning of the spring sew- 
ing, the old garments that have accu- 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 



247 



mulated may be studied with a. view 
to their further usefulness, and so 
with every other season. You may 
find numerous old linen garments 
that may do service in the following 
ways: 

Uses of a Blue Linen Dress. — This 
garment may be stout and good but 
faded in streaks or out of style. Rip 
it to pieces, wash it, and bleach it in 
the sunshine until it is all one shade. 
Then dye it a pretty light blue. The 
material may then be used for a shirt 
waist or a child's dress. Embroidered 
linen is always in good taste, and thus 
handsome garments may be made of 
old dresses. 

Uses of a Brown Linen Dress. — ^An 
old brown linen dress can also be used 
to make shirt waists, simmier trousers 
for boys, or blouses for either boys or 
girls. 

Making Over — ^Useful Hints. — Here 
are some useful hints in making over 
that wiU prove equally valuable for 
new goods: 

Morning and Kitchen Dresses. — It 
is a good idea when buying morning 
and kitchen dresses to select first an 
inconspicuous pattern; secondly, to 
buy enough for two dresses. Thus 
when they begin to show wear you 
will have plenty of material worn 
alike to make one respectable dress, 
and perhaps two aprons. 

Where tiiere is a large family the 
summer sewing may be greatly ex- 
pedited by making a list of the mem- 
bers of the family to be provided for, 
and under each name adding two lists: 
what each one has and what each re- 
quires to complete the summer ward- 
robe. This will often save both time 
and money. 

Old Collars for Canvas. — If one does 
not happen to have canvas with which 
to stiffen revers, she will find the old 
linen collars and cuffs that have been 
cast off by the men of the family a 
good substitute for canvas. They 
must be first washed, being carefiil 
not to remove all the starch, and then 
ironed. Many who have used this sub- 
stitute do not care to retuza to the 
use of canvas. 



FANCY WOBK 

Some knowledge of fancy work aids, 
a woman very materially from a dec- 
orative as well as an economical stand- 
point. The woman who knows how to 
make and use fancy work may dress 
well and inexpensively. 

Homemade Stamping Patterns. — 
Perforated patterns can be easily 
made in the following manner: Draw 
the pattern on butter paper. You can 
trace on that more easily than on tis- 
sue paper. Then unthread the needle 
of the sewing machine, stitch all the 
lines, and you have the pattern as 
perfect as any of the purchased ones. 
Many prefer this to the use of carbon 
paper. 

To Transfer Embroidery Designs. 
— To trace the pattern of some article 
which has been already embroidered 
take a piece of cloth you wish to have 
the design upon, lay it smoothly on a 
well-padded ironing board, dampen 
the embroidery design thoroughly, and 
place it smoothly on linen or cloth 
right side down. With a thin cloth 
placed over it aU, press firmly until 
dry. When the piece is removed the 
impression will be on the cloth in per- 
fection. Trace the outlines with a 
pencil and you have your design.. 

To Applique Embroidery. — It is 
possible to make a garment very hand- 
some if one understands the art of 
appliqu6. The wise woman whose 
means are limited will save every mite 
of embroidery she possesses — ^the em- 
broidered corners of handkerchiefs, 
embroidered turn-overs, medallions in 
her fancy waists, and the hundred and 
one little odds and ends that from 
time to time find their way into her 
wardrobe. When the garment is worn, 
carefully remove the embroidered 
parts with very sharp scissors. Lay 
them away in a box for future use. 
If you desire an embroidered shirt 
waist or corset cover, turn to this box 
of odds and ends and there will be 
found perhaps a rosebud, the ten- 
drils of a vine, a few leaves, or the 
like. Place them carefully upon a 
new or else an unworn piece of goods, 



248 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



fashioning out of the many bits a 
pleasing design. Baste the bits of 
embroidery upon the goods with ex- 
ceeding care, then with fine thread 
carefully buttonhole the embroidery 
down upon the fabric. In many cases 
the Kensington embroidery stitch may 
be employed. Where the places are 
not perfectly joined, a vine of one's 
own handiwork may be inserted. You 
will be surprised when the work is 
finished at the daintiness of the gar- 
ment. 

Embroidery Silk. — There are many 
devices for keeping embroidery silk. 
A very simple and convenient one is 
a box in which gentlemen's fine ties 
are sold singly. It is just the right 
length and size to accommodate the 
holders. 

Hemstitching. — Always use a short 
needle in hemstitching. When hem- 
stitching on hnen the thread may be 
easily drawn if a yardstick is laid 
along a straight line, being careful to 
insure the proper margin on the outer 
edge of the piece. If a piece of hard 
white soap is rubbed along the linen, 
the threads may be drawn with ease. 

Hemstitching on the Sewing Ma- 
chine. — ^Draw the threads as usual. 
Instead of basting the hem j ust where 
the threads are drawn, baste it so that 
the stitch will come a little above the 
middle of the open work. The fine- 
ness or coarseness of hemstitching is 
regulated by a short or long stitch. 

Eyelet Embroidery. — An orange 
stick, such as is used for manicuring 
the nails, may be used as a substitute 
for the stiletto when making holes for 
embroidery. It is more satisfactory 
than the points of scissors, which 
often make the holes irregular. 

To Prepare Linen for Embroider- 
ing. — If new linen must be embroid- 
ered without being shrunk, it will be 
much easier if you first rub it over 
with fine white soap. The threads are 
thus prevented from cracking. 

Working Initials. — If handkerchiefs 
or napkins are to have embroidered 
initials, baste the corners of four of 
them together. Then slip the em- 
broidery rings in place. Thus four 



initials can be worked without chang- 
ing the rings. 

Fancy Work that Has Become 
Drawn. — When fancy work has be- 
come drawn in working, dip a cloth 
in cold water, wring it out, and lay 
it on a wooden table. Lay the worked 
piece over this, pinning it at intervals 
of half an inch until not a pucker re- 
mains. Leave this for several hours, 
or over night,-and when the pins are 
removed the drawn appearance will 
have disappeared. 

To Cut Insertion. — Place the at- 
tachment next to the quilter on the 
sewing machine and set on the edge 
of the insertion close to the work. 
Then adj ust for the margin to be left. 
Place the needle just where the inser- 
tion is to be cut. With unthreaded 
needle stitch the entire length. Then 
follow the lines of the holes in cut- 
ting. 

Sewing Insertion on Garments. — 
When insertion is to be sewed on a 
straight strip, a very good way is to 
baste the lace or embroidery in the 
straight edge of the goods. If lace, 
allow enough of the goods to form a 
hem. If embroidery, just allow a 
seam, and stitch close to the cord of 
the embroidery or right on the edge 
of the lace. Then turn that which has 
been allowed for the hem, and stitch. 
This makes a first-class imitation of 
trimming that has been whipped in, 
and takes much less time. 

Embroidery Edging for Underwear. 
— If imderwear is to be trimmed with 
embroidery, the latter may be strength- 
ened and made more durable by stitch- 
ing around the scallops before putting 
the embroidery on the garment. Use 
a loose tension to avoid splitting be- 
tween the scallops. 

Ripping. — Garments for growing 
children have constantly to be made 
over — sleeves to be lengthened, new 
sleeves to be made, hems let out of 
skirts, and the like. An old-fashioned 
chain-stitch machine can be purchased 
for a song and will prove excellent 
for stitching up these particular 
seams; then when the garment is to 
be taken apart a child can rip it. 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 



249 



Nothing is better for ripping than 
the thin blade of a razor. If the men 
of the house shave themselves, old 
razors are occasionally discarded and 
are excellent for ripping. 

Cutting. — Time may be saved by 
cutting tv/o corresponding pieces of 
an apron. This avoids pinning the 
pattern to each piece separately. To 
mark the tucks, place a piece of im- 
pression paper under the two pieces 
of material. Then with a common 
lead pencil mark aU the perforations. 
Thus, the above pieces are marked ex- 



actly alike, and half the time has been 
saved. 

Cutting Bias Folds. — It is a good 
plan to turn the material over fre- 
quently to make sure that it is kept 
quite bias. Any deviation therefrom 
will cause the threads to twist when 
sewing the folds on the garment. 

Cutting Silk. — If silk is thin and 
slippery it may be placed between 
sheets of thin paper before the pat- 
tern is laid on. Cut through the paper 
and material together, and there will 
be little fraying. 



CHAPTER IX 

SWEEPING DAY 

UTENSILS FOR SWEEPING— DUST AND DUSTING— HABD-WOOD 
FLOOBS— RUGS— MATTING— OILCLOTH AND LINOLEUM 



One day in the week, usually Fri- 
day, is set apart as sweeping day. 
At the top of the house, in the attic 
stairway, keep cleaning rags, brush, 
soap, dusters, and broom. Have a 
wastebasket in each of the rooms to 
receive bits of paper, rags, Uat, 
burnt matches, and the like. Com- 
mence at the top of the house and 
clean each room as you go. Take up 
the dust from each room and put it 
in a tin bucket or other deep recep- 
tacle so that it will not be blown 
about. Never sweep the dirt from 
one room to another, and thence down 
the stairway to the front hall. This 
method covers the door» lintels, win- 
dow casings, and high shelves with a 
thick coating of dust which is blown 
about the room with every passing 
breeze. 

Sweep the stairs with a short-han- 
dled brush or stiff whisk broom, hold- 
ing a dust pan to catch the dust at 
each step. Triangular blocks, or brass 
fixtures made for this purpose, tacked 
into the corners of the stairways will 
assist in keeping them clean by pre- 
venting dust from acciunulating. 

After a room has been swept, open 
one or more viondows, if possible, be- 
fore beginning to dust. 

UIEXSIIS rOS SW£EFIir& 

Carpet Sweeper. — The ideal method 
of sweeping is by means of a carpet 
sweeper. This goes over the surface 
of the carpet with a light and even 
pressure, and takes up all dust and 
dirt with the least possible friction 
and consequent wear upon the carpet. 



and raises practically no dust at all. 
It saves strength and time, and prob- 
ably saves money by outwearing the 
brooms that could be purchased for 




" The Ideal Method of Sweeping." 

the same price. Hence a good carpet 
sweeper may be regarded as a neces- 
sity rather than a luxury in every 
household. 

How to Sweep. — ^The old-fashioned 
brooms, however, are still commonly 
used, and are needed for some pur- 
poses in every household. To sweep 
well with a broom is an art that calls 
for quite a little skill and intelli- 
gence. There are wrong ways in 
sweeping as well as the right way, and 
the former are perhaps more often 
practiced than the latter. 



250 



SWEEPING DAY 



251 



It is wrong to lean on the broom, 
or dig into the carpet with great force, 
as if trying to dig down and get the 
dirt out of it. This cannot be done 
except by taking up the carpet and 
beating it. All the dust and dirt that 
can be removed is that which lies on 
the surface. 

It is wrong to push the broom for- 
ward so as to drive a cloud of dust 
into the air. 

It is wrong to sweep the whole 
length of the room toward the door 
in order to sweep the dirt into the 
next room. TWs carries the dirt over 
a larger surface of carpet than is nec- 
essary. 

It is wrong to sweep always on one 
side of a broom so that it will get 
lopsided and have to be thrown away. 

The right way to use a broom is to 
keep the handle always inclining for- 
ward and never allow it to come to 
the perpendicular; much less incline 
backward. The stroke should be rath- 
er long, the sweeper standing on the 
soiled portion of the carpet, reaching 
back, and drawing the dust and dirt 
forward as if pulling or dragging it 
over the surface. A skUlful sweeper 
will lift the broom ' before it be- 
comes perpendicular so as not to 
raise the slightest dust, and will tap 
it gently to shake the dirt out of 
it before reaching back for another 
stroke. 

Begin in one corner, and work along 
the crack between the baseboard and 
carpet, as this is where moths and car- 
pet bugs do their most destructive 
work. Work around the room, sweep- 
ing toward the center, and when that 
has been reached take up the dust 
with pan and brush. It is obvious that 
this process moves the dirt over a 
smaller surface than sweeping toward 
one of the doors. The practice of 
sweeping the dirt from one room into 
another, even if the latter room be 
the kitchen, is certainly inadvisable. 
Both brooms and carpets will wear 
much longer if sweeping is done in 
proper fashion, and the dust in furni- 
ture, draperies, and bric-a-brac will be 
reduced to a minimum. 



Sweeping. — Before sweeping dip the 
broom in hot soapsuds, and have at 
hand a pailful of soapsuds in which 
to rinse the broom when it becomes 
dusty. Squeeze out the water so that 
the broom is damp but not wet. This 
practice toughens the straw, makes 
the broom last much longer, and soft- 
ens it so that it does not cut the car- 
pet. A damp broom also takes up the 
dirt better than a dry one and pre- 
vents the dust from rising in the air. 

To prevent dust when sweeping 
wet a newspaper, tear it in small 
pieces, and scatter them over the car- 
pet. Squeeze the paper so that it will 
not drip. 

Or sprinkle the carpet with moist 
tea leaves, which may be saved daily 
for this purpose. 

If a room is heated by hot air, a 
good deal of dust will come up through 
the register. To prevent this, place 
a fine wire screen or two or three 
thicknesses of cloth under the regis- 
ter, so that the hot air will be screened 
in passing through. When shaking 
down the furnace or removing the 
ashes sprinkle wet sawdust over the 
ashes. This will prevent filling the 
house with dust. When upholstered 
furniture, draperies, carpets, and Ori- 
ental rugs require dusting, lay over 
them large pieces of cheese cloth or 
outing flannel wrung out of cold 
water, and beat them with a stick or 
small carpet beater. As the dust arises 
it will adhere to the wet cloths, and 
these can be rinsed occasionally. 

To Select Brooms. — Select a broom 
of light-green color and fine straw. 
It wears longer and gathers fine dirt 
that coarse straw would pass by. 
Choose a flat broom, not a round one. 
Shake the broom, and choose one which 
is not loose, otherwise the straw will 
fall out. Be sure that there is no stalk 
below the thread. 

Care of Brooms. — Broom straw when 
dry is brittle and easily broken. It 
is also stiff and wears the carpets. 
Hence before using a new broom set 
it in a pail of boiling suds and let it 
stand until the water is cold. Hang 
it out of doors to dry. 



252 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



When not in use a broom should al- 
ways be hung upside down so that the 
straws will fall apart. This helps to 
keep it in shape. Have different 
brooms for different purposes. Use the 
newest for the finest carpets, the next 
older broom for kitchen use, and the 
oldest broom for the pavement and 
other rough places. When through 
sweeping pick all the lint from the 
broom, shake the dust out of it, and 
rinse in hot water before hanging it 
up. 

Make a pocket in which to hang the 
broom upside down. 

Or put two large clothes hooks fac- 
ing each other, or two nails, and hang 
the head of the broom between these. 

Or drive nails through two large 
spools to protect the straw. 

Or put up a ring on the wall and 
thrust the broom handle through this. 

Keep the broom in a dry, cool place, 
away from rats or mice. Too much 
heat makes it brittle, and rats and 
mice will gnaw it when they can. Af- 
ter a time the ends of a broom split 
and become sharp, and the broom gets 
out of shape. Wet it in hot suds, cut 
the split and broken ends straight 
across, and press it between weights 
to restore it to shape. A new broom 
sweeps clean because the straws are 
straight and the broom is square, hence 
a broom thus treated wUl sweep like 
new. When sweeping, sweep first with 
one side of the broom, then with the 
other, else it will get one-sided and 
have to be thrown away. 

Care of Carpet Sweepers. — The car- 
pet sweeper should be . emptied every 
sweeping day, and never put away full 
of dirt. It may be opened over a 
newspaper. The brush should be tak- 
en out and freed from dust and lint 
with the fingers or a coarse comb, 
rinsed in soapsuds, and dried before 
being replaced. 

When the rubber tires on the wheels 
become worn they may not assist the 
brush to revolve with sufficient strength 
to do good work. New tires may be 
obtained from the manufacturers, or 
thick rubber bands purchased from a 
stationer or rubber-goods dealer may 



be substituted. Remove the old tires 
and adjust the new ones with glue or 
cement. New brushes may be ob- 
tained from the manufacturer, and 
with care a good carpet sweeper 
should last a lifetime. 

A toy carpet sweeper is a great 
convenience, as it may be kept at hand 
or easUy carried from place to place. 
In the sewing room it is useful to 
catch all ravelings and smaU pieces 
from the floor without stooping. Tliis 
may be done without rising from the 
chair. In the nursery it takes all bits 
of paper torn by children, about the 
dining-room table it catches crumbs, 
and aU with little effort and without 
the need of using or even possessing 
a large-sized sweeper. The toy sweep- 
er costs less than half a doUar and 
will save its price many times over. 

DUST AND DUSTING 

Dust is defined by the Century 
Dictionary as " earth or other matter 
in fine dry particles so attenuated 
that they can be raised and carried 
by the wind." The particles of earth 
and other mineral substances con- 
tained in dust are troublesome, but 
not especially harmful. In addition 
to this, dust contains three sorts of 
spores or germs, i. e., molds, yeasts, 
and bacteria. All of these are alive, 
or capable of life, and under suitable 
conditions multiply rapidly. They 
are invisible except imder the micro- 
scope, and are exceedingly numerous. 
The conditions most favorable to 
their growth are darkness, warmth, 
and moisture. Direct sunlight kills 
them, and in the absence of moisture, 
they do not usually multiply. 

All of these germs produce minute 
plant or vegetable organisms of 
which common mold or " mildew " 
and the yeast used in raising bread 
are familiar examples. A visible il- 
lustration of the spores or germs, 
that are the seeds of plants of this 
sort, is found in the common puff- 
ball or " smoke " ball, so familiar to 
country children. When broken, the 
contents escape as a cloud of dust. 



SWEEPING DAY 



253 



These are the spores or seeds of the 
plant. The air is fiill of similar 
spores or germs, and while many of 
these are not harmful, others are the 
agents of decay and a few are the 
germs of contagious diseases. These 
are called bacteria. Their natureil 
home is in moist soil. Thus they 
multiply rapidly in the soil of damp 
cellar floors, especially if decaying 
vegetable matter is present, and in 
the accumulation of dirt and grease 
beneath boarded-up sinks, and in the 
corners of rooms that are shut up 
and darkened. They are also very 
numerous about drains and cess- 
pools. They sometimes find their way 
into the body by means of drinking 
water or by accidental contact with 
the body when the skin is cut or 
scratched. But more frequently they 
are dislodged from some moist local- 
ity and become dry. Then they are 
caught up by every passing breeze, 
and float in the air as dust, whence 
they are taken into the mouth and 
lungs in breathing. 

The bacteria which cause disease 
find lodgment under certain condi- 
tions and grow in the body. They 
throw off in' the process of growth 
certain poisonous substances called 
toxins. And these toxins are what 
produce the symptoms and condi- 
tions present in such diseases, and 
eventually, in many cases, produce 
death. 

Spores or germs of mold that set- 
tle on carpets or other fabrics and on 
wood, books, or other objects. where 
moisture is present, produce a crop 
of tiny plants, well known imder the 
name of mildew. The yeast germs 
are less common and are relatively 
harmless. Knowledge of these facts 
emphasizes the dangers of dust, which 
may be avoided in three ways: by 
sterilization, by prevention, and by 
removal. 

Sterilization of Dust. — The most 
eflScient agent to sterilize dust, by 
killing germs that it contains, is di- 
rect sunlight. Like many other 
things that are plentiful and free, 
sunlight is not appreciated at its true 



value. In cities, buildings are crowd- 
ed so closely together as to shade 
one another, and in the country too 
frequently direct sunshine is cut off 
from dwelling houses by thick masses 
of evergreen and other trees, shrubs 
or vines. Formerly it was the custom 
in many localities to keep the parlor 
and spare chambers closed by shut 
doors and drawn blinds. And rooms 
are stiU too often darkened to pre- 
vent carpets and other fabrics from 
fading. Happily, a change for the 
better is already apparent. Hard- 
wood floors and Oriental rugs do not 
fade. It is much less customary than 
formerly to exclude light and air 
from spare rooms, to board up sinks 
and other plumbing, and otherwise 
to harbor breeding places for the 
germs of mildew, disease, and decay. 
In cities, boards of health are con- 
stantly studying these matters, and 
laws have been passed that tend to 
prevent unsanitary conditions. The 
resulting knowledge is being rapidly 
spread everywhere. And within re- 
cent years the death rate of most lo- 
calities has been greatly diminished. 
There is little doubt that many 
deaths have been due to conditions 
that could have been prevented by a. 
knowledge of the dust dangers. 

But in the presence of direct sun- 
shine, dust is rendered harmless. 
Hence choose furnishings that sun- 
shine wiU not harm, and admit the 
sunlight freely to all parts of the 
house. 

Preventing Dust. — A certain 
amount of dust, according to local 
conditions, is always floating in the 
outer air, and finds its way into 
dwellings through doors, windows, 
and other openings. This cannot 
usually be much lessened except by 
such means as oiling streets; sprin- 
kling streets, lawns, and gardens; the 
prevention of smoke and the like. 
But the amount of dust formed with- 
in doors by the wear of fabrics, fur- 
niture, woodwork, and other objects, 
can be much lessened by the selec- 
tion, when furnishing, of durable ar- 
ticles of all sorts, and by protecting 



254 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



floors, furniture, and other woodwork 
by suitable coatings of oil, wax, paint, 
or varnish. And, in addition, vari- 
ous means may be taken to prevent 
the distribution of dust when sweep- 
ing. 

Removing Dust. — The ordinary 
means of removing dust is by sweep- 
ing, and afterwards wiping all ex- 
posed surfaces by means of a damp 
cloth, chamois, or other suitable dust- 
er. Good ventilation is also valuable 
as ai means of removing dust, espe- 
cially if the intake is screened so that 
the fresh air is pure when admitted. 
Carpet sweepers are especially valu- 
able as dust removers. But the mod- 
ern vacuum cleaners may be regard- 
ed as ideal for this purpose. 

Vacuum Cleaners. — At present this 
method of cleaning is somewhat ex- 
pensive, and is confined to localities 
where electric or other power is 
available. It is to be hoped, how- 
ever, that vacuum-cleaning apparatus 
may be devised that can be run by 
cheap gasoline or alcohol motors at 
a price within the means of the aver- 
age family. These cleaners, by pro- 
ducing a vacuum, cause suction pow- 
erful enough to draw dust, dirt, and 
other small objects out of the fiber 
of carpets and hangings, and from 
the surface of woodwork, furniture, 
and other objects. The dust is taken 
in through a suitable mouthpiece 
provided with a handle with which to 
guide it as desired, and carried, to- 
gether with a current of air, through a 
tube into a receptacle containing wa- 
ter. This may afterwards be emptied, 
and all dust permanently removed 
from the premises. There is little 
doubt that some such means of clean- 
ing will eventually take the place of 
the broom and carpet sweeper in or- 
dinary households, and that thus the 
dust question will be finally and sat- 
isfactorily settled. 

Dusters. — ^The object of dusting is, 
or should be, to remove the dust per- 
manently from the room, and not 
merely to change its location from 
hangings, shelves, or furniture cover- 
ing, whence it will be stirred by every 



footstep and carried by the first breeze 
back to its former resting place. 

The old-fashioned feather duster is 
useful for moving the dust from one 
place to another, but for no other pur- 
pose. The feather duster doubtless 
owes its popularity to the long handle, 
which permits of dusting the lower 
parts of furniture without stooping, 
and also of dusting objects that would 
otherwise be out of reach. A substi- 
tute may be made on the same plan 
by using a short piece of broomstick, 
tiie handle of an old feather duster, 
or a child's broom, and fastening to 
the end with cord or wire in the 
same way that a wWsk broom is wired, 
a deep double ruffle made of any suit- 
able cloth and of any desired length 
and thickness. 

A duster made in this way will 
retain the dust better than a feath- 
er duster, and it can be shaken 
out of the window. Cheese cloth is 
perhaps the best material for this 
form of duster, but almost any soft 
fabric may be employed. 

Or hem squares of cheese cloth of 
any convenient size. 

Or use the tops of old cotton or 
silk hose, either men's or women's. 
Cut these down the seam and whip 
them together with a loose seam. 

Or for certain purposes, as dusting 
around baseboards, over windows, 
doors, and all woodwork that it is dif- 
ficult to reach with a cloth, use a com- 
mon dish mop. This is much superior 
to a feather duster, as it holds the 
dirt and can be easily cleaned. It wiU 
be improved for this purpose by wir- 
ing the upper end with a piece of 
wire taken from an old whisk broom. 

Chamois leather slightly dampened 
is perhaps the best kind of duster, es- 
pecially for polished furniture. 

To Dust. — Begin in one corner of 
the room and dust thoroughly as you 
go. Commence with the highest arti- 
cles, wiping but not brushing off the 
dust, the object being to cause all the 
dust to lodge on the cloth. 

Shake the duster frequently out of 
the window. After using it wash it 
and hang it up. 



SWEEPING DAY 



255 



Wing Dusters. — The wings of fowls, 
turkeys, geese, and ctiickens are use- 
ful to dig out tiie corners in washing 
windows, and also as brushes about 
the stove and hearth. Dip the bony 
ends in a bichloride solution to keep 
out moths and insects. Do not leave 
them where the cat can chew them. 

To freshen Carpets. — Before sweep- 
ing, scatter dry salt over the carpet. 
It brightens the colors and checks the 
ravages of moths. 

Or, after sweeping, go over the car- 
pet lightly with a broom dipped into 
half a pailful of hot water to which 
two teaspoonfuls of ammonia have 
been added. This freshens the colors 
of the carpet. 

Or slightly moisten salt with kero- 
sene. Sprinkle the carpet and sweep 
thoroughly. The dust wiU not rise, 
but will be thoroughly taken up by 
the mixture. The kerosene wiU leave 
no greasy effect, the odor will soon 
pass off, and the carpet will be won- 
derfully freshened. Corn meal may 
be substituted for salt. The same 
treatment may be applied to matting 
with equally good resiJts. 

Smooth Floors. — Smooth floors of 
hard wood, oilcloth, linoleum, or mat- 
ting should not be swept in the usual 
way. Make a heavy canton or outing 
flannel bag with a draw string, large 
enough to hold the head of the broom. 
Or use for this purpose ticks that are 
becoming worn. Wring this bag out 
of hot water containing a little am- 
monia, sUp the broom head into it, 
and draw the puckering string tight 
about the handle. This takes up all 
dust, lint, and bits of paper, and 
makes the room much fresher than 
ordinary sweeping. Cast-off flannel 
garments, such as nightshirts and the 
like, may be utilized in this manner. 

Or stitch together loosely old cot- 
ton hose, crazy-quilt fashion. 

HABD-WOOD FLOORS 

Finish for Hard-wood Floors. — 
Rub down a new floor with sandpa- 
per, and polish with pumice mois- 
tened with a little water. Wa^ clean. 



let dry, fill the nail holes with putty, 
and if the grain of the wood is open, 
apply a suitable fiUer. Avoid a cheap 
filler, based on plaster of Paris and 
the like, as these are not durable. 
The best filler consists of ground 
quartz mixed with linseed oil about 
as thick as white-lead paint. The 
particles of quartz are angular and 
adhere to the grain of the wood. 
When nearly dry, or as soon as it be- 
gins to " flat," go over it with a cloth 
or other polisher, and wipe clean all 
that will come off. Let stand a day 
or two and polish lightly with the 
finest grade of sandpaper. Wipe off 
the dust with a soft cloth and follow 
with two coats of the best quality of 
pure shellac. Avoid cheap shellac, as 
it is much less durable. This gives 
a high gloss. But if a dull finish is 
required, the shellac may be rubbed 
down by means of a piece of felt 
tacked over a flat surface as a block 
of wood, with pumice stone mois- 
tened with cold-drawn linseed oil or 
olive oil. 

Or to reflnish a hard-wood floor 
that has become defaced by age or 
wear, remove the previous finish by 
washing the floor with a strong solu- 
tion of sal soda, or, if necessary, caus- 
tic potash or soda lye. Or if this 
does not remove the spots, apply 
turpentine. After the wood has been 
perfectly cleaned, proceed as above. 

Wax for Hard-wood Floors. — Shel- 
lac alone makes a tough and dura- 
ble finish, but on account of its high 
gloss it readily mars and scratches. 
And these defects are very appar- 
ent. Moreover, a shellac surface can- 
not be touched up in spots because 
the brush marks will show. When 
defaced, it must be refinished all 
over. Hence it is customary to fol- 
low the shellac with a protective 
coat of wax. 

Or wood may be oiled with cold- 
drawn linseed or other clear fixed oU, 
and a coat of wax applied directly 
to the oiled surface without shellac. 
This last is the usual custom abroad. 

A suitable wax properly applied 
gives a hard, glossy surface, is not 



256 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



sticky, and does not rub off. Scratches 
or mars on any part of the surface 
can be waxed over at any time, and 
the whole surface can be repolished 
frequently with a weighted brush. 
Floor oils, unless rubbed and pol- 
ished with great care, tend to stain 
skirts, rugs, and draperies. Hence 
wax is the most satisfactory of all 
floor dressings. 

To Wax Floors. — Apply, by means 
of a flannel cloth, beeswax thinned 
with turpentine and rub down with a 
weighted brush. This is a hard wax 
and difficult to apply without turpen- 
tine. But the turpentine quickly 
evaporates, and the wax then forms a 
very durable coating. 

Or as a substitute for beeswax, use 
paraffin wax, which is cheaper, soft 
and easy to apply, but less durable. 
Paraffin is one of the petroleum 
products, and if not properly refined, 
tends to combine with the tannin of 
oak floors to form black petroleum 
stains, which are difficult to remove. 

Or fasten together four or more 
common red bricks. Lay one or more 
thicknesses of felt over the largest 
surface, surround the whole with 
flannel or other soft cloth, sew it on 
and attach an old broom handle with 
which to push or drag it over the 
floor. This is equally as effective as 
a weighted brush and costs nothing. 

Steel Wool for Waxed Floors. — 
To scour a hard-wood floor when 
scratched or marred, or to remove 
dirt that is ground in, use steel wool, 
which comes by the pound for this 
purpose. It can be used in the same 
fashion as cotton waste, and is a very 
effective scourer, which wiU not in- 
jure the finest surface. 

Polish for Waxed Floors. — Sub- 
stances recommended for polishing 
waxed floors are beeswax or rosin, 
thinned with turpentine, or parafSn 
wax. Stearin and even tallow can- 
dles are sometimes used for the pur- 
pose, but are much less suitable. 
Pure beeswax thinned with turpen- 
tine is the simplest and perhaps most 
desirable polish, but the following 
are recommended: 



Rub through a coarse grater 6J 
pounds of beeswax. Add 3 pounds of 
pearlash and a little water. Bring to 
a boil and stir well until they cease to 
effervesce. Now stir in 3 pounds of 
dry yellow ocher and pour all into a 
tin pail, having a tight cover, in 
which to preserve it for use. Thin 
when required for use with boiling 
water to the consistency of cream, 
and apply while hot with a soft cloth. 
Polish with a weighted brush and 
wipe up with a coarse flannel. 

Or place in a tin pan 5 ounces 
of powdered rosin, 24 ounces of yel- 
low beeswax, and rub through a 
coarse grater. Add 1 pint of tur- 
pentine, and place the pan in a 
larger pan, surrounded by boiling 
water. This should be done at a dis- 
tance from a stove or open flame, 
and matches should not be lighted in 
the vicinity, as the turpentine gives 
off an inflammable gas. Stir until of 
a uniform consistency, and pour into 
glass fruit jars or tin paUs having 
tight covers to preserve for future 
use. When required for use, thin 
with turpentine to the consistency of 
cream, and apply as above. 

Spots on Waxed Floors. — Apply a 
little benzine or turpentine on a soft 
cloth to remove the wax. Rub clean 
with a dry cloth, and let the benzine or 
turpentine evaporate before waxing. 

To remove dirt that is ground in, 
scour with steel wool. After the spot 
has been removed, rub over the spot 
and adjacent surface with a cloth 
moistened in a solution of wax and 
turpentine or other polisher. Rub 
dry with a weighted brush to a fine 
polish, otherwise it will be sticky. 
Avoid the use of water, as it will turn 
the wax white. Never use soft soap, 
sal soda, or other alkalies, as they 
tend to cut the oil in which the shel- 
lac is mixed, strike through and 
darken the floor beneath. 

Oil for Floors. — Do not use crude 
petrolexun oil on oak or similar hard- 
wood floors. The crude petroleum 
contains a dyestufl which, with the 
addition of tannin, is the basis of 
black ink. All oak and some other 



SWEEPING DAY 



257 



hard woods contain tannin, which 
unites with certain constituents of 
crude oil and some other petroleum 
products to form in the fibers of the 
wood an insoluble black inky dye. 
Thus, in a short time the floor will be 
turned jet black, and its appearance 
ruined. To remove this stain, wash 
the floor with sal soda or caustic pot- 
ash lye, rinse, dry, and apply a solu- 
tion of 1 pound of oxalic acid dis- 
solved in 10 or 13 quarts of warm 
water. Wet the floor with this so- 
lution and let it dry without rms- 
ing. Let stand, if convenient, over 
night. But remember that oxalic 
acid is an active poison. Hence care 
must be taken to keep pets and chil- 
dren out of the room, and not to 
breathe in the dust that rises from 
the dry crystals. Pour out the rins- 
ing water into a pit and cover it with 
earth. Oxalic acid will not injure 
shellac or interfere with any subse- 
quent treatment. 

Care of Hard-wood Floors. — To 
prevent furniture from scratching or 
marring hard-wood floors, get pieces 




'And Rub Down with a Weighted Brush." 



of thick felt or soft rubber or obtain 
from a cobbler a sheet of rubber sol- 
ing. Cut these to the exact size of 



the table and chair feet. Cover them 
with glue, and when the glue becomes 
" tacky " lay them on. Put news- 
papers under the chairs to protect 
the floor until the glue is quite dry. 
The floor will be kept in much bet- 
ter condition if the members of 
the family wear rubber heels on their 
shoes. 

To Restore Wax Floors. — Old wax 
may be removed from a hard-wood 
floor by mixing equal quantities of sal 
soda and slaked lime, and using about 
1 pound of the mixture to a pailful 
of water. Apply this with a mop, 
and afterwards scrub the floor with 
sand soap and water. If necessary 
apply dilute sulphuric acid, 1 part of 
acid to 10 parts of water. After- 
wards rinse in water containing a lit- 
tle ammonia and wipe dry. 

Remove any remaining traces of 
wax by means of turpentine. Other- 
wise shellace will not adhere. 

BUGS 

Care of Rugs. — Before sweeping, 
rugs should be removed from the room 
and thoroughly cleaned before they 
are returned to the floor. If rugs 
are caught by the ends and shaken 
they soon tear out and unravel. 
A better way is to hang them on 
a line and beat them with a carpet 
beater. 

Or lay the rug on a clean floor and 
sprinkle table salt over it. Sweep it 
hard with a broom until it is clean; 
turn it and sweep the other side the 
same way. 

If rugs must be beaten indoors lay 
a damp cloth over them. If they are 
very much soiled, rinse the cloth in 
hot water and repeat until the rug 
is clean. 

To Lay Bugs. — To prevent rugs 
from curling at the corners fasten 
under each corner a triangular bit of 
corrugated rubber. Let these extend 
8 or 9 inches along the rug. Bore 
several small holes in the rubber and 
sew through holes in the fabric. This 
not only keeps the rugs in place but 
makes them last longer. 



258 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or sew dress stays or whalebone 
under the corners to keep the rug 
from curling. 

Or turn the rug upside down and 
apply a liberal coat of cold flour paste 
with a brush to the corners and edges. 
Let the rug dry flat on its face, and 
when dry turn it over, and the weight 
of the paste will keep it in position. 

Care of Oriental Hugs. — Oriental 
rugs, if genuine, are in fast colors, 
and the top or right side is practically 
indestructible. The threads at the 
back, however, are very easily dam- 
aged. Hence Oriental rugs should al- 
ways be beaten on the right side. 
When beaten they should be hung on 
the line or laid over grass or other 
soft surface. 

If much soiled, they may be washed 
or scrubbed by means of a stiff brush 
with soap bark dissolved in boiling 
water, and afterwards wiped off with 
a clean sponge and dried with a dry 
cloth. In winter lay an Oriental rug 
on the porch or other flat surface out 
of doors, sprinkle it with snow, and 
brush it off with a stiff broom or 
heavy whisk broom. 

To Brighten Colors. — Slightly mois- 
ten salt with kerosene. Sprinkle this 
over the rug and sweep it off. Kero- 
sene wiU leave no greasy effect. The 
dirt will soon pass off and the colors 
will be freshened. 

Or substitute corn meal for salt. 

MATTING 

To Clean Matting. — First sprinkle 
matting with bits of wet newspa- 
per or similar substances, as with 
carpets, and sweep the way of the 
weave, but not across it. Wash with 
strong salt and water to strengthen 
the fibers. 

Or wash with skim milk, rinse in 
warm water, and dry quickly with a 
coarse cloth. 

To Brighten Matting. — If light- 
colored mattings become stained and 
faded, wash with strong soda water. 
This will give them a uniform solid 
cream color, harmonizing the different 
tints. 



Or with a water-color brush apply 
suitable dyestuff to the pattern to 
revive and restore it. 

OILCLOTH AND LINOLEUM 

To Clean Oilcloth. — Oilcloth should 
not be scrubbed with a stiff brush or 
mop, or saturated with water, nor 
should sal soda or other strong wash- 
ing compounds be used upon it. The 
surface is nothing but paint, and if 
it becomes soaked, especially with 
water containing strong soapsuds or 
washing compounds, it crumbles and 
quickly decays. 

To use a large sponge with luke- 
warm water containing skim milk is 
the best way to wash oilcloth. A very 
little hard white or yellow soap may 
be used if necessary. A sponge is 
excellent, since it leaves no lint, and 
does not admit of scrubbing the floor 
hard enough to crack or peel off the 
surface. 

After removing the dirt with skim 
milk and water, go over it a second 
time, rinsing with a sponge wrung out 
of clear warm water, and dry enough 
to take up nearly all of the mois- 
ture and admit of the floor drying 
quickly. 

Or rub it over with a dry woolen 
cloth. 

Finally go over the surface with a 
rag dipped in boiled linseed oil or 
crude petroleimi oil. This is very 
cheap, costing only 8 or 10 cents a 
quart, and a cloth dipped in it will 
take up enough oil to go over the 
floor several times. After the cloth 
has been once saturated it will require 
but a small quantity of oil each time 
afterwards. 

Or use butternulk to wash the oil- 
cloth. Afterwards rinse with a sponge 
dipped in clear water. 

Table Oilcloths. — The thin oilcloths 
used on kitchen tables, shelves, etc., 
may be cleaned in the same manner 
as the floor oilcloth. Do not use either 
soap or hot water, but moisten the 
rag slightly in kerosene. Rub the oil- 
cloth imtil it is perfectly clean, wring 
the cloth out of hot water, and dip 



SWEEPING DAY 



again in kerosene when necessary. 
Afterwards rub dry with a flannel 
cloth. 

Or wash with skimmed sweet milk or 
buttermilk, and rinse with a sponge 
and clear water. 

Polish with a little linseed oil or a 
cloth slightly dampened with new 
milk. 

To Wax Oilcloths and Linoleums. 
— First wash the floor as above and 
apply a thin coating of wax with a 
flannel cloth. 



Or use a floor oil mixed with wax. 

This gives a hard, smooth surface, 
which is easily wiped up and kept 
clean. 

To Kemove Spots on Oilcloth. — 
Anything hot placed on oilcloth turns 
it white. To remove these spots rub 
with alcohol and polish with a dry 
cloth. 

To Brighten Oilcloth. — Put a little 
salt in the water in which oilcloth is 
washed. This wUl brighten and fresh- 
en the colors with whiclj it is painted. 



CHAPTER X 

HOUSE CLEANING 

CLEANING THE CELLAR— CLEANING TBDE ATTIC AND CLOSETS- 
CLEANING THE CHAMBERS— TO CLEAN FLOOR COVERINGS 
—CLEANING AND REFINISHING WOOD FLOORS— CLEAN[NG 
PAINT— WHITEWASHING— PAPER HANGING— CARE OF WALLS- 
WINDOWS, DOORS, ETC.— CLEANING AND CARE OF FURNI- 
TURE—CLEANING PICTURE FRAMES-CLEANING BRIC-A-BRAC 
AND MISCELLANEOUS OBJECTS— TO CLEAN MARBLE, BRICK, 
AND STONE— CLEANING KITCHEN STOVES AND OTHER 
METALS— PACKING 



In addition to the daily and weekly 
routine of housework it is customary 
to give the house and its furnisWngs 
a thorough overhauling and renova- 
ting once or twice a year, usually in 
the spring and fall. But this custom 
varies in different parts of the coun- 
try, and in cities is also quite differ- 
ent from what it is in rural neighbor- 
hoods. In cities, winter is the season 
when guests are received and most en- 
tertaining takes place; hence the fall 
house cleaning, as a preparation for 
the duties and festivities of the win- 
ter season, is likely to be the more 
important. 

In rural neighborhoods, however, 
sununer is the period of greatest ac- 
tivity, and the spring house cleaning 
is usually the more thorough and 
painstaking. 

Spring House Cleaning. — Spring 
house cleaning should ordinarily be 
postponed until the weather has be- 
come sufficiently settled, so that win- 
ter underwear, draperies, carpets, etc., 
may be stored away if desired, and so 
that the health of the household need 
not suffer by reason of the open win- 
dows and dampness attendant upon 
scrubbing floors and walls, whitewash- 
ing, painting, and the like. Most 
women, after constant confinement 
during the winter months, are more 



or less run down in the spring, and 
the change from the bracing tempera- 
ture of winter to the enervating 
warmth Of the first spring days is 
likely to result in a lowering of tone 
that may expose them to serious mis- 
chief from overexertion. For these 
reasons there is a gradual change of 
sentiment in favor of making spring 
house cleaning a comparatively simple 
affair, putting off the heavy work un- 
til the fall. But the spring house 
cleaning must be sufficiently thorough 
to renovate and protect ail woolens, 
furs, and feathers from the ravages 
of moths, to remove heavy hangings 
and draperies, and everything that 
impedes the free circulation of air 
during the heated term. 

Plan of Campaign. — The work of 
bouse cleaning will be very much sim- 
plified by thinking out in advance a 
systematic plan of campaign. In a 
blank book make an inventory of the 
principal contents of each room. 
Measure the floors and the width and 
length of the window shades needed. 
Ascertain the number of yards of 
carpet or matting, the number of 
roUs of wall paper and the yards 
of border required for every room in 
the house, the amount of paint or 
stain needed for the various floors; 
also the size of the dinirtg-room table- 



260 



HOUSE CLEANING 



261 



"jloths, the length and width of sheets, 
and the size of pillow slips for dif- 
ferent pillows. Divide the book in 
sections, assign a. number of pages to 
each room in the house, take accurate 
measurements, note them down, and 
preserve the book for future use. Con- 
sult it to determine what changes shall 
be made fax the rooms, what articles 
shaU be stored away, and what, if 
any, need to be repaired. Provide in 
advance the requisite amount of ma- 
terials of all sorts, and have them at 
hand when the work begins. 

William Morris says: "Have noth- 
ing in your house that you do not 
know to be useful or believe to be 
beautiful." Hence before house clean- 
ing go through the house and critical- 
ly examine each obj ect. Some of them 
may have passed their usefulness, or 
your tastes may have changed and 
you may no longer regard them as 
beautiful. Then remove them without 
question. The art of successful living 
consists in getting along vrith as few 
articles of furniture as possible, rath- 
er than in accumulating many differ- 
ent pieces. Remember that every ad- 
ditional one is an additional care. If 
you decide to retain an article, consid- 
er, if it is in order or not, if it can be 
put in order, and in that case whether 
it can be done at home. Gather up 
such pieces as you decide to repair 
and take them to the family workshop. 

Consider the discarded articles to 
see if they can be given away, sold, 
or used for fuel, and if not, throw 
them together to make a bonfire to 
celebrate with when the house clean- 
ing is finished. 

Rules for House Cleaning. — It is a 
good rule in house cleaning to first 
clean the cellar, because it is the most 
difficult and often the most neglected 
part of the house. Afterwards begin 
with the attic and work down. 

Another good rule is to clean thor- 
oughly one room at a time, settling it 
as you go. 

Preparations for House Cleaning. 
— Experienced housewives arrange for 
house cleanii^g by preparing food in 
advance, boiling ham, baking beans, 



pies, bread, and cake, so as to be 
spared as far as possible the labor of 
cooking while house cleaning is go- 
ing on. 

WhUe house cleaning, dress appro- 
priately for the work. Some house- 
keepers wear a divided skirt or bloom- 
ers made of four widths of heavy dark 
skirting. These are gathered into bands 
and buttoned about the ankles and 
waist. They are valuable protectors 
for skirts, and facilitate climbing step- 
ladders, scrubbing floors, etc. 

Pull the sleeves up as far as you 
want them to go, and put elastic bands 
on the arms over the sleeves. Trim 
the finger nails as short as can be 
borne with comfort. This prevents 
their being broken or torn when obliged 
to work without gloves. Wear a dust 
cap, a big apron, and loose gloves. 

Half the disagreeableness of house 
cleaning is taken away by having a 
lotion to apply to parboiled and un- 
comfortable hands. Soak 2 or 3 ounces 
of quince seed over night, strain 
through cheese cloth, and add 3 quarts 
of water and 2 ounces each of glycer- 
in, boracic acid, and witch-hazel. This 
is one of the best of lotions. 

CUIASISO THE CELLAB 

To Clean Cellars. — Begin to clean 
house with the cellar. It is a hard 
job, and you may be inclined to neg- 
lect it if you wait till the rest of the 
work has been done. No part of the 
house cleaning is so important from 
the standpoint of sanitary cleanliness 
or, because it is out of sight, more 
likely to be neglected. 

First sweep all dust and cobwebs 
from rafters and ceiling; sweep the 
shelves and wash them with strong 
suds or soda and water; remove, 
empty, and clean bins and barrels 
that have contained vegetables, and 
set them out of doors exposed directly 
to the air and sunlight. If the cellar 
admits of thorough drainage, wash 
down the ceilings, walls, and floor 
with a hose, or dash water on them 
from pails by means of a large dip- 
per. Open the bulkhead windows and 



262 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



sweep the floor, especially digging out 
the corners. Remove everything that 
is not necessary. The fewer objects 
to accumulate dust and to get in the 
way when cleaning, the better. 

Dissolve 2 pounds of copperas in 1 
gallon of water, and sprinkle the walls 
and floor with this solution by means 
of an old whisk broom or watering 
pot having a fine spray. This is a 
good disinfectant and assists in driv- 
ing away rats and other vermin. 

Finally whitewash the walls with an 
old whitewash brush or old broom, 
and use plenty of whitewash, to which 
add copperas at the rate of i pound 
to 1 pound for each pailful. 

Vegetable Cellars, — If vegetables 
are kept in barrels or bins in the house 
cellar, they should be examined from 
time to time and picked over as soon 
as they begin to rot. Leaves from 
cabbage heads, celery tops, and other 
vegetable stuff not wanted should be 
carefully removed before they begin 
to spoil. Decaying organic matter of 
any kind is the favorite breeding 
ground of the germs of typhoid fever, 
diphtheria, and other contagious filth 
diseases, and decay is much assisted 
by dampness. Hence unless the cellar 
is perfectly dry, clean and free from 
rotten vegetables, those who are re- 
sponsible for its condition cannot in 
case of sickness have a clfear con- 
science. An outbreak of black diph- 
theria which caused the death of five 
children in a single family was traced 
by a physician directly to some de- 
cayed vegetable matter on the cellar 
floor. 

Or make an outdoor vegetable cel- 
lar by sinking a strong cask or box 
in the ground below the frost line. 
Knock out the bottom and let the 
vegetables rest on the ground. Pro- 
vide a water-tight cover in two layers, 
with sawdust or charcoal between. Or 
throw over the top straw or hay. Thus 
cabbages, celery, and the like may be 
kept fresh in winter without danger 
of contaminating the air of the house. 

To Keep Cellars Warm. — Make a 
flour paste containing a strong glue 
size, and with a whitewash brush apply 



one or more layers of building paper, 
brown paper, or even newspapers to 
the rafters of the ceiling, and let it 
come down over the sills and around 
the frames of windows to prevent 
draughts. The thicker the layer or 
layers of paper the better. This helps 
to keep the floors warm and to make 
the cellar frost proof. 

Care of Casks. — Keep an empty 
cask bunged up tight to keep it sweet. 

Tar casks slightly on the inside to 
assist in preserving salt meat. 

To sweeten a sour cask that has 
held pickles, vinegar, or wine, wash it 
with lime water, or throw in hot char- 
coal and ashes. Add water and let 
the cask soak. 

To remove must or other odors, 
wash with sulphuric acid and rinse 
with clear water, or whitewash with 
quicklime, or char the inside with a 
hot iron. In all cases rinse thorough- 
ly with scalding water before using. 

To Prevent Dampness in Cellars. — 
To avoid damp cellars furnish jets, 
gutters, and leaders to carry rain 
water from the roof to a cistern or 
away from the foundations of the 
house. Lay tile or other drains under 
the cellar floor to carry away water 
from springs or other natural mois- 
ture. Lay cellar walls in mortar made 
of water lime, and cover the cellar 
bottom and walls with hydraulic ce- 
ment, water lime, or concrete made 
by melted asphaltum poured upon a 
surface of gravel and tamped hard 
while hot. 

Or employ a layer of coal tar and 
asphaltum laid on a surface of gravel 
and covered with melted asphaltum 
applied hot. Finish with a layer of 
fine sand. Apply by means of a brush 
a thin layer of waterproof cement to 
the walls, floor, and sills. 

If tile or other drains underly the 
cellar floor, let the floor slant slightly 
to an opening in the drain so that 
water coming in from freshet or oth- 
erwise may be carried off, and so that, 
if desired, the floor and walls may be 
flushed with water. 

To Ventilate Cellars. — The upper 
part of the house being warmer than 



HOUSE CLEANING 



263 



the cellar, the warm air of the upper 
rooms creates, by rising, a suction 
which draws the cellar air into the 
rooms above through cracks in the 
cellar door, or through the doorway 
whenever the door is open. By this 
means any impurities or germs of dis- 
ease in the cellar are communicated 
freely to all parts of the house. Hence 
the importance of good ventilation in 
cellars. 

Locate cellar windows, when possi- 
ble, opposite one another so as to cre- 
ate a draught. Being placed near the 
ceiling, such windows afford good ven- 
tilation. But the best ventilator is a 
chimney reaching down to the cellar 
floor or resting on the foundation wall 
and commvmicating with the cellar by 
one or more good-sized openings. 

Have the cellar windows open freely 
by means of rods or otherwise, and 
keep them open in clear weather when- 
ever possible. 

To Remove Dampness. — Place in the 
cellar a large open box or pan con- 
taining fresh lime. This will tend to 
dry and purify the air. Change the 
lime as fast as it becomes air-slaked. 

Whitewash for Cellars. — Slake 
enough lime for a paUful of white- 
wash. Mix half a pint of flour with 
cold water to a smooth paste, thin 
with scalding water, and boil until it 
thickens. Pour this boiling hot into 
the whitewash and stir vigorously. 

Or use boiled rice strained through 
cheese cloth. Add a teacupful of the 
strained rice to a pailful of slaked 
lime. 

Cover cellar walls twice a year or 
oftener with whitewash, to which add 
copperas at the rate of 3 pounds to 
the gallon. Apply whitewash freely, 
especially in out-of-the-way corners, 
removing all shelves, etc., so as to 
cover the entire surface of the walls. 

To Disinfect Cellars. — Close win- 
dows and other apertures and stuff 
the cracks with burlap. Burn a quan- 
tity of sulphur in a suitable receptacle 
on the cellar floor. An ordinary tin 
pie plate covered with earth or sand 
may be used. Place on this live coals, 
on which sprinkle flowers of sulphur 



or brimstone. Take precautions to 
escape quickly so as not to breathe 
the fumes. 

To Prevent Dust in Cellars. — To 
minimize dust from furnaces, wet the 
ashes by throwing water on them from 
a dipper before taking them up. Or 
sprinkle them with water from a 
watering pot. Or sprinkle over them 
wet sawdust. 

This also prevents dust from rising 
into the upper rooms through the reg- 
isters. 

Bins for Cellars.— Have aU bins for 
use in the cellar small enough to be 
freely movable. Or use barrels, and 
place bins and barrels on planks turned 
on edge to lift them above the cellar 
bottom. Make a. sufficient number of 
swinging shelves by tacking pieces of 
board to the rafters so as to project 
downward, and suspend shelves on 
these to hold canned preserves and 
other articles in place of having shelves 
on the walls. Keep the walls free to 
admit of complete whitewashing. 

Pipes — To Prevent Prost. — Wrap 
exposed water pipes with bands of hay 
or straw twisted tight around them, 
or cover with the asbestos tubes that 
are on the market for this purpose. 

Pumps — To Prevent Freezing. — Re- 
move the lower valve and drive a tack 
into the under side of it, projecting 
in such a way that the valve cannot 
quite close. The pump will work as 
usual, but the water will gradually 
leak back into the well or cistern. 

Or have at hand a suitable hook of 
stout wire by which to lift the valve 
and let the water out of the pipe at 
night. ' 

To Thaw Pipes. — If the pipe is ac- 
cessible, wrap woolen cloths, as old 
pieces of underwear, carpet, and the 
Hke, thickly about it and pour on 
boiling water. This holds the heat 
and melts the ice gradually. 

Or, if possible, pour boiling water 
containing as much salt as it will dis- 
solve into the pipe above the frozen 
part. This will settle and dissolve the 
ice. 

To Clear Drainpipes. — Flush the 
pipe once a week with boiling water 



264 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



containing sal soda. Rinse the kitchen 
sink daily with strong soda Water. 

To Stop Leaks. — For cold-water 
pipes apply a thick paste of yellow 
soap and whiting mixed with a little 
water. Or, if the leak is too large, 
wrap the pipe tightly with a tarred 
cloth bandage, melt the tar, and spread 
it over strong duck canvas or burlap 
cloth three or four inches wide. Be- 
gin to wind the bandage several inches 
from the leak and lap it one half or 
more upon itself at each round. 

For hot-water pipes mix iron filings 
with vinegar and sulphuric acid to a 
thick paste. Dry the pipe, fill the 
cracks with this mixture, and keep 
them dry imtU it sets. This is very 
durable. 

To Protect lead Pipes. — Coat the 
inside of the pipe with sulphide of 
lead. This is insoluble and cannot be 
acted upon by water. To effect this 
fill the pipes with a warm concentrat- 
ed solution of sulphide of potassium, 
and let stand fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Then rinse it out. The sulphide 
coating will be formed by chemical 
action. 

To Clean Boilers. — To prevent scale 
forming on the inside of the boiler 
put into it two or three white oak 
saplings. These will be entirely dis- 
solved in three or four weeks, and the 
boiler will be clean. 

CLEAirmG THE ATTIC AND CLOSETS 

Closets and Drawers. — Choose a 
sunny day and empty the contents 
of bureau drawers, wardrobes, closets, 
and other storage places upon an old 
quilt or a sheet spread upon the lawn. 
Shake and dust these vigorously with 
a whisk broom, and sort them. Put 
in one pile ragged articles that are no 
longer useful except for carpet rags 
or to sell to the ragman; in another, 
those that are available for dusters, 
mops, dishcloths, and the like. Lay 
aside articles that need to be mended 
or renovated. Separate woolens and 
flannels, which require protection 
against moths, from cotton fabrics, 
which are moth proof. After remov- 



ing viath a whisk broom all traces of 
moths, hang the larger pieces on the 
line and leave the others out of doors 
exposed to direct sunshine. 

Meantime apply suitable moth de- 
stroyers to the insides of the drawers, 
wardrobes, and boxes that have been 
emptied. Take off the wall paper in 
the closets, as behind the wall paper 
is where you will find the nests of 
moths and other vermin. Wash the 
floors and walls with moth destroyers, 
and apply suitable preventives to 
cracks and openings. Wash out the 
insides of the drawers, and take them 
out to dry in the sun. 

Save fine towels that are too worn 
for further use and lay them in the 
bottom of the drawers, viath lavender 
between the folds. 

While the clothes on the line are 
airing, pack flannels, furs, feathers, 
etc., in mothproof paper bags or boxes 
to be stored away in the attic, and 
before the dew falls at night return 
cotton and other fabrics required for 
summer use to the drawers and ward- 
robes that have been cleansed and 
aired. 

Destroy with a hard heart every 
useless thing, and burn everything 
that you see no probability of need- 
ing in the near future. With the best 
of care odds and ends will accumu- 
late, and the labor of handling and 
preserving them in the hope of finding 
use for them by and by is often more 
than they are worth. 

But remember, if similar objects 
are classified and kept together, many 
uses may be found for them collective- 
ly. A lot of old stockings may be 
turned into a quilt. Old underwear 
is useful for dusters and many other 
purposes. Hence sort, classify, and 
arrange as much as you can, but when 
odds and ends are left over, throw 
them away. 

Drawers that Stick. — Now is the 
time to remedy the bureau drawer 
that sticks. If it is not quite dry 
when returned to its place, you will 
discover the spot that in damp weath- 
er is likely to swell and make trouble. 
Take a piece of common yellow soap. 



HOUSE CLEANING 



265 



moisten it, and rub freely the parts 
which are too tight. Also soap the 
under part of the drawer where it 
slides. Or apply a tallow candle. Or 
rub the parts freely with bacon rind. 
But the soap is likely to effect the 
more permanent cure. 

Periodicals. — Each spring the attic 
will reveal a pile of magazines and 
papers. Some of these may be thrown 
away, but in others there will be one 
or more stories or articles of especial 
interest. Take out the wire fasteners 
and sort the contents into fiction. 




"A PiU of Magazines. 



travel, biography, history, and the like. 
Take out of each pile only what is 
really wanted. Thus, for example, the 
best short stories may be collected 
and made into a valuable book. To 
bind these articles together, cut strips 
of manila paper IJ to 2 inches in 
width and the length of the maga- 
zines. Fold these lengthwise in the 
middle, and paste on either side. Slip 
the back edge of the printed pages 
into the creslse thus formed, fastening 
it securely with paste. Now thread a 
needle with strong thread and .sew the 
pages through and through to this rein- 
forcement. Place as many of the sepa- 
rate stories as desired together, bore 
holes through them i inch from the back 
edge near the top, bottom, and in the 
middle, and lace them together vnth 
a strong cord. Draw over the out- 



side of all a strong manila cover, past- 
ing it liberally to the back. 

Or the sheets may be sent to a book- 
binder and at a slight expense made 
into an interesting and valuable book. 

Or the periodicals will always be 
welcome at hospitals, schools, and oth- 
er institutions, which in many cases 
will send for them if notified that they 
may be had at the expense of removal. 

Curtains and Draperies. — Take 
down all curtains and draperies ; laun- 
der, fold, and store them before the 
house cleaning begins. Thus they will 
be out of the way and ready to be 
put up when papering, painting, and 
whitewashing are finished. 

How to Glean Booms. — Clean one 
room at a time, doing everything thor- 
oughly. Settle each room before go- 
ing to another. This avoids upsetting 
the whole house, and is much better 
than cleaning by floors and having all 
the bedrooms or all the living rooms 
upset at the same time. 

First take up the carpet and scrub 
the floor; then beat and clean the car- 
pet and hang it on the line, so that 
both the carpet and the floor from 
which it is taken may have all day to 
dry and air. 

Or, after the floor covering is taken 
up, tlie ceiling may be first cleaned, 
and papered or whitewashed, if neces- 
sary, and the walls papered before the 
floors are scrubbed, this being reserved 
for another day. Lastly, any neces- 
sary painting and varnishing may be 
done and the windows and woodwork 
cleaned. 

In cleaning paint use but little soap, 
as the alkali tends to injure paint and 
varnish. If paint is kept in good con- 
dition by being rubbed occasionally 
with a cloth moistened in kerosene, 
it will need little scrubbing at house- 
cleaning time. 

Last of all, stain or paint the floor, 
or relay the floor covering, and return 
furniture and pictures to their posi- 
tions. 

House-cleaning Hints. — Split open 
two short pieces of rubber hose and 
fasten them on the lower end of the 
stepladder. Turn them up on the 



2Q6 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



sides of the supports, and nail them 
there. This prevents the stepladder 
from slipping on the bare floor. 

Use a stiff bristle brush, preferably 
of wood fiber, to clean the cracks and 
crevices of woodwork, iron beds, and 
the like. Lay the brush when wet 
with the bristle side down. This pre- 
vents the water from soaking into the 
wood and loosening the bristles. 

Or use a damp whisk broom that 
has served its time as a clothes brush 
to take dust from cracks and corners, 
carvings of furniture and woodwork, 
and to clean windows. If rinsed fre- 
quently it removes every particle of 
dust with little trouble and no injury. 

Have at hand a small stick 3 or 4 
feet long and 1 inch in diameter, with 
a screw hook screwed in one end. This 
is always handy to reach for articles 
that have fallen out of the window, 
behind furniture, or into the water 
pail or barrel, to hang or take down 
pictxires, puU down escaped window 
shades, and for many other purposes. 

CLEAOTITQ THE CHAMBEBS 

To Clean Bedrooms. — ^Take down all 
curtains and draperies, if not already 
removed,' and carry them to the laun- 
dry. Put the bedding on the line, 
shake and beat it, and leave it to air. 
Take the mattress out of doors, and 
beat and air it. 

If the bed spring is exposed and of 
metal, take it out of doors and turn 
the hose on it or dash water on it 
from a pail. Let it dry in the sun. 

If the bedstead is of wood, wash it 
with water containing borax or am- 
monia, but do not use washing soda 
or soap, as the former will spoil the 
paint and the latter wiU leave a dis- 
agreeable odor. 

If the bedstead is of metal, wipe 
it with a cloth dipped in kerosene. 
Or brush it over with gasoline and 
wipe off with a dry towel. 

Rub the paint of wooden bedsteads 
with a cloth dipped in paraffin. This 
both cleans and freshens it. 

Remove extra blankets and quilts 
to the laundry. 



Take up carpets and rugs to be 
beaten and shaken, or if there is mat- 
ting on the floor and it is not neces- 
sary to take it up, sprinkle dry salt 
over it and wipe with a cloth wrung 
out of warm water. 

If the floor is of hard wood, wash 
it with gasoline as you would vrith 
water, and ventilate thoroughly before 
admitting a light. Polish with wax 
and suitable furniture polish. 

If the floor covering is drugget, 
scatter moist bran over it and let re- 
main several hours. When swept up 
the bran will take the dirt with it. 
Then scrub the drugget with hot water 
and ammonia by means of a stiff 
scrubbing brush, and afterwards wipe 
off with a soft cloth until the rinsing 
water is perfectly clear. 

To Renovate Hetal Beds. — If the 
enamel is worn from a white enameled 
bed, go over it with an additional coat 
of white enamel, or obtain gilt enamel 




6o Over It witli Enamel.' 



and gild it. This gives the appearance 
of brass. The gilding wears better 
than white enamel and can be washed 
with gasoline. 

Or, if desired, give the white bed 
that needs renovating a coat of' black 
enamel. 

Cotton Blankets. — In sununer, cot- 
ton blankets and spreads, which are 
much cheaper than woolen ones, are 
to be preferred to woolen blankets or 
old-fashioned cotton quilts. They can 



HOUSE CLEANING 



267 



be easily washed and are more sani- 
tary. The aim should be in summer 
to have the bed coverings as light and 
easy to handle as possible. 

Eiderdown. — With use an eider- 
down quUt becomes compacted to- 
gether and loses its elasticity. Take 
it out of doors, shake and brush it, 
and expose it to sunshine for several 
hours. Spread it on the lawn and 
work over it with a stiff whisk broom 
to loosen the nap. Thus its elasticity 
may be restored, and it will again feel 
soft and downy. 

To Clean Mattresses. — Stains on 
mattresses may be removed by cover- 
ing them with dry laundry starch and 
moistening this with enough soap or 
soap jelly (made by melting scraps 
of hard soap in about their own bulk 
of boiling water) to form a thin paste, 
which will dry on, but not soak through 
into the mattress. Let dry, and brush 
off with a stiff whisk broom. Repeat 
if necessary. Afterwards sponge with 
ammonia and water. 

To Purify Feathers. — New feathers 
quickly become foul as the grease con- 
tained in the quills decays. Hence 
they require a, thorough cleansing to 
remove the animal oils and other 
greasy substances. Old feather beds 
may also be renovated. 

First, dry the feathers in the sun- 
shine or by a flre, and put them in a 
sack. Moisten two sheets of burlap, 
lay the feathers between these, and 
beat them to loosen the dirt, which 
will adhere to the wet cloth. 

Prepare a solution of limewater at 
the rate of J pound of quicklime to 
1 gallon of water. Stir vigorously, 
allow to settle, and pour off the clear 
liquor. Soak the feathers In this for 
3 or 4 days. 

Or use instead cooking soda at the 
rate of 1 teaspoonful to 1 quart of 
water. Take a large piece of cheese 
cloth and pour the limewater or soda 
water and feathers upon this so that 
the water will pass through, leaving 
the feathers in the cloth. Now pour 
cold water over them and rinse them 
well. 

Put on a wash boiler half full of 



water, and add a cupful of powdered 
borax. Put the feathers in this, bring 
them to a, boU, and again pour them 
on cheese cloth. Drain and squeeze dry.' 

Tie the corners of the cheese cloth 
together and hang it over a clothes- 
line, shaking occasionally until dry. 
Several days may be required to dry 
the feathers thoroughly. Do not use 
soap to wash feathers. 

Care of Feather Beds. — Many feath- 
er beds are in use which have been 
slept on for more than one generation 
without being renovated. When the 
feathers have been properly cleaned 
and the ticks cared for, they perhaps 
do not need renovating oftener than 
once in two or three years, but at 
least once in three years the feathers 
should be passed into a fresh tick, the 
ticking washed, and the feathers reno- 
vated before they are returned to it. 
After the tick has been washed, rub 
the inside with a mixture of equal 
parts of beeswax and turpentine and 
go over it with a warm iron. This 
will prevent the feathers from being 
soiled by perspiration or otherwise 
or from working through the tick. 

Or, once a year, place the feather 
beds and pillows out of doors on the 
grass or on a clean, flat roof, and 
allow them to be thoroughly drenched 
by a warm summer rain. 

Hang them to the limb of a tree 
to dry in the shade. 

To Clean Feather Pillows.^ — Feath- 
er pillows may be washed without re- 
moving the feathers by boiling them 
in borax water to which a small quan- 
tity of ammonia has been added. Use 
half a teacupful of borax to a boiler- 
ful of water, and add a tablespoonful 
of ammonia. Boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes. After removing the pillow 
from the boiler, scrub the tick, if bad- 
ly stained, by laying it on a wash- 
board and applying suds with a stiff 
brush. Rinse in two or three waters 
and hang on the line in a shady place 
to dry. Shake the pillow and change 
ends two or three times a day. Bring 
the pillows into the house before the 
dew falls or if it should come on to 
rain, as it takes a long time to dry 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



pillows at best. This process makes 
the feathers light, flaky, and sweet 
smelling. 

Or, if you do not wish to wash the 
feathers, pass them into pillow covers 
and hang them on the line to air while 
the ticks are being washed. 

Or put the pillows out of doors in 
a drenching rain storm. Afterwards 
squeeze as much water out of them as 
possible and hang them up to dry in 
a shady place. 

To Mend Old Blankets. — To mend 
all breaks and tears in old blankets, 
cover both sides with cheese cloth. 
Tack all together with white or col- 
ored yarn, and thus make a light quilt 
superior to a comforter. Finish the 
edge by crocheting around all four 
sides. 

To Store Bedding. — Line a large 
packing case with heavy wrapping 
paper by using brass tacks or by 
pasting paper to the inside of the case 
with flour paste and a whitewash 
brush. This will prevent moths from 
making their way through the cracks 
of the case and the folds of the paper. 
Air the bedclothes thoroughly, fold 
blankets in paper, and scatter freely 
among the folds hemlock or arbor- 
vitas sprigs, dry sweet flags, lavender, 
or sachet powder. These are equally 
as effective as moth balls, and give 
the bedclothes an agreeable odor. 
Paste the ends of the paper together 
and paste wrapping paper over the 
top of the case in such a way as to 
leave no cracks through which moths 
can find an entrance. Nail down the 
lid. 

Bedroom Ornaments. — Remove all 
unnecessary bric-a-brac from the bed- 
rooms and take unnecessary articles 
from dressing tables. A room looks 
much daintier without useless little 
things. 

To Clean the Bathroom. — Thor- 
oughly wash down walls and floors, 
clean out the medicine closet, and 
throw away everything that is not 
likely to be used. Look over the shelves 
carefully for cracks and crevices which 
may give lodgment to vermin, and 
wash them with strong soap and 



water. Clean the porcelain tub and 
basin with a cloth wet with kerosene. 
Pour in kerosene, if necessary, and 
scrub with a whisk broom or fiber 
brush. Remove stains from porcelain 
with dilute muriatic acid (1 part of 
acid to 10 parts of water), applied 
by means of a cotton swab held in- a 
cleft stick. Polish the metal work of 
faucets and pipes with a suitable 
cleaner. 

Or clean the bathtub, washbowl, etc., 
with gasoline and flannel. 

When painting the bathroom, if you 
wish the floor darker than the walls, 
without buying two shades of paint, 
get a light-colored paint, as lead color 
or light yellow, and after the walls 
are painted add to the remainder of 
the paint powdered burnt umber. This 
will give to the floor a darker color of 
the same general tone. 

TO CLEAN FLOOB COVEBINGS 

Floors in Summer. — Take up car- 
pets in the' spring, beat and clean 
them, roll them up, protect them 
against moths, and, if desired, store 
them away until the fall house clean- 
ing. Fill the floor cracks, if any, with 
a suitable wood filler, and paint or 
stain the floor, or cover with matting 
during summer. This plan saves time 
and labor in the care of floors, and 
prevents much dust from sweeping 
during the hot months. If carpets can 
be replaced by hard-wood floors and 
rugs, so much the better, and taking 
up carpets during the summer time is 
a step in the right direction. Or, if 
preferred, the carpets may, of course, 
be retm-ned to the floors after clean- 
ing. 

When taking up large rugs and art 
squares for the summer, roll them on 
sticks and sew them in canvas or bed 
ticking. These may be tied with strong 
cords and slung on hooks attached to 
the wall or ceiling in the attic or store- 
room. Thus they are well protected 
and out of the way. 

To Take Up Carpets. — First draw 
the tacks and pick them up without 
moving the carpet. Then begin at one 



HOUSE CLEANING 



end of the room and roll the carpet 
carefully to the other end. Double 
the roll on itself or, if two persons 
can assist, take it up at both ends and 
carry it out of doors to be cleaned. 
Roll up papers or carpet lining care- 
fully with the dust, and take them out 
of doors to be burned. If the papers 
are handled gently little or no dust 
will remain in the room, and the floor 
may be readily cleaned with soapsuds 
and a mop. 

Or, if no lining papers were used 
and the floors are covered with dust, 
sprinkle wet sawdust or bits of wet 
newspaper about the floor, and stir 
them gently with a broom to gather 
the dust. Sweep part of the room at 
a time, taking up the sweepings, and 
repeat with a fresh lot of sawdust or 
newspaper. Afterwards wash the floor 
with a mop. 

To Put Down Carpets. — Use an 
ordinary carpenter's hammer, taking 
care to choose a tool which has a 
square, flat head, and not a hammer 
the head of which has grown round. 
One or two blows with such a tool 
will drive a tack, where a small tack 
hammer will require six or seven. The 
best and most convenient carpet 
stretcher is a pair of rubber over- 
shoes. Tack the carpet down on one 
side, put on a pair of old rubbers, and 
scuff across the room. Repeat the 
process for the other three sides. If 
one person can stretch the carpet and 
another tack it as fast as it is 
stretched, it may be laid very quickly 
and with comparatively little effort. 

Oarpets — To Prevent Wear. — Before 
returning old carpets to the floor, rip 
up the seams and transpose the 
breadths, putting the least worn strips 
in place of those that are most worn; 
or turn the carpet end for end to 
change the wear. 

Or, if the carpet is ingrain, turn 
and use wrong side up for a season. 

Stair Carpets — To Prevent Wear. — 
Tack several thicknesses of newspaper 
or carpet lining or old carpet on the 
top of each step, having them deep 
enough to hang three of four inches 
over the edge. This pad prevents the 



stair carpet from wearing along the 
edge. It doubles the life of the stair 
carpet. 

To Uend a Rag Carpet. — Holes in 
rag carpet caused by the breaking of 
the warp may be mended by sewing 
back and forth on the sewing machine. 
Large holes may be mended in this 
manner so as not to be noticeable. 

When cutting out the good parts 
of an old rag carpet, sew across the 
rags back and forth before cutting. 
This prevents the carpet from ravel- 
ing when cut, and the edges of the 
good pieces may be sewed together 
with the seam held down. 

To Sweep Carpets. — Before taking 
up the carpet it should be well swept. 
The less dust it contains the quicker 
it can be beaten. Sprinkle with salt 
or corn meal, or with a mixture of 
salt and corn meal moistened with 
kerosene. 

Or, if fresh clippings from a lavni 
mower can be had, sprinkle the carpet 
with them. Or, if the carpet is of a 
dark color, with wet tea leaves. Tea 
leaves may stain a light-colored car- 
pet. 

Or wring a newspaper out of cold 
water until it is damp, but not wet. 
Tear in small pieces and sprinkle with 
them. Sweep thoroughly before taking 
up the tacks. 

To Beat Carpets. — If you have a 
clean green lawn, draw the carpet 




" Use a Wire Beater." 

over the grass for some distance, turn, 
and draw back on the other side. Beat 



270 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the carpet v/hile lying on the grass. 
Reverse the carpet so as to draw it 
over another spot, and beat on the 
other side. Then hang it over a line 
and beat until clean. Beat first thor- 
oughly on the wrong side and after- 
wards more gently on the right. 

To beat carpets, use preferably a 
wire beater made by bending a heavy 
piece of wire 8 or 10 feet long and J 
inch or more in thickness. Of this 
form a loop, and attach the ends to a 
convenient handle, as a broomstick. 

Or use flexible hickory switches 
rather than heavy sticks, which may 
injure the warp of the carpet. 

To Clean Carpets. — If a carpet is 
much soiled it may require washing 
or scouring after having been beaten. 
This may be done after the carpet has 
been laid on the floor. First remove 
stains and grease spots. Next wash, 
then, with a stiff bristle brush the size 
of a nailbrush, apply suds made with 
warm water and one of the following 
cleansing mixtures: 

Have at hand a pail containing 
suds, another containing clear hot 
rinsing water, a stiff bristle brush, 
a large sponge, and a number of coarse 
porous cloths. Use as little water as 
possible. Take one breadth at a time 
and scrub what can be reached with- 
out moving. Rinse this section imme- 
diately with a sponge wrung out of 
clear water and dry with a coarse 
cloth before proceeding to the next. 
Soap soiled spots with any good hard 
white soap dipped in water. Take 
about IJ yards at a time and work 
quickly, so that the water wiU not 
soak into the carpet. 

Or pure soapsuds made by dissolv- 
ing 1 bar of castile of other hard 
white soap in 2 gallons of water. 

Or one bar of hard white soap, 1 
tablespoonful each of borax, washing 
soda, fuller's earth, and salts of tar- 
tar. Cut 'the soap fine, mix the in- 
gredients in a kettle, add 1 gallon of 
boUing water, and stir until all are 
dissolved. 

Or 1 pint of ox gall dissolved in 1 
quart of cold water. Apply with a 
scrubbing brush until a lather is 



formed. Rub pure ox gall on soiled 
places, rinse, and dry as above. 

Or dissolve 1 bar of hard white soap 
in 1 gallon of water. Dissolve 4 ounces 
of borax and 4 ounces of sal soda 
in 4 gallons of water; mix, remove 
from the fire, and add J pint of 
alcohol, stirring well. Apply when 
cold. 

Finally, open the windows and al- 
low the carpet to thoroughly dry be- 
fore the room is used. Kindling a fire, 
if convenient, will assist in drying. 

Or ingrain carpets may be ripped 
into breadths and washed in the tub 
like other woolen goods with soap and 
water, or hung out on the line during 
a warm summer rain. 

Any of these methods is suitable for 
all forms of carpets or rugs of similar 
materials, as Oriental, Smyrna, and 
domestic rugs, art squares, and the 
like. 

To Clean Oriental and Other Rugs. 
— Oriental rugs and other rugs having 
fast colors may be scrubbed with soap 
and water. Or any of the above cleans- 
ing mixtures. Tack the rug on a bare 
floor, as a porch or piazza, and pro- 
ceed as with a carpet. 

The following mixture is especially 
recommended for the best quality of 
rugs or carpets and other woolen fab- 
rics: dissolve 8 oimces of good white 
soap in the same quantity of boiling 
water; add 10 ounces of aqua am- 
monia, 5 ounces of alcohol, 5 ounces 
of glycerin, and 4 ounces of ether or 
chloroform. Keep in a fruit jar or 
large glass bottle and cork tightly. 
Use 1 tablespoonful of this prep- 
aration to a pailful of warm water, 
and apply with a stiff brush. Or for 
obstinate stains use a stronger solu- 
tion. 

To Wash Goatskin Rugs. — Wash 
goatskin rugs in gasoline, or in a mix- 
ture of gasoline and pure soapsuds 
made of hard white soap. 

To Freshen Faded Carpets.— After 
carpets have been cleaned and laid, the 
colors, if faded, may be freshened by 
sprinkling the carpet with strong salt 
water and sweeping hard. 

Or dampen a cloth with ammonia 



HOUSE CLEANING 



271 



and rub over the surface of the 
carpet. 

Or put i pint of turpentine in about 
li gallons of water. Wring a cloth 
out of this solution and with it rub 
the carpet. 

Or go over the carpet with a broom 
or whisk broom moistened with gaso- 
line. 

Or put 1 cupful of cold tea and 1 
tablespoonful of turpentine in 2 quarts 
of warm water. Dip the broom in 
this before sweeping. 

Or put 3 tablespoonfuls of turpen- 
tine and 4 of salt in 3 gallons of water, 
and moisten the broom with it. 

Or put 1 gill of ox gall in 1 gallon 
of water and apply with a cloth wrung 
out so that it will not drip. 

Or dissolve 1 teaspoonful of alum 
in 1 gallon of water. 

Or apply to the patterns suitable 
dyestuffs or water colors mixed with 
gimi arable, following the outline of 
the design with a water-color brush. 

Or any of the above may be ap- 
plied with a clean mop if care is taken 
to wring it out so that it wiU be damp 
rather than wet. The above will not 
only brighten and set the colors of a 
carpet, restore faded colors, and pre- 
vent fresh colors from fading, but will 
also act as preventives against moths, 
and to some extent kill germs that 
may be present in the carpet. 

To Clean Bag Carpets. — Shake and 
beat the carpet, drag it across the 
lawn a few times to remove dust by 
contact with the soft grass, and leave 
it spread on the grass or hung over a 
line during a gentle rain. Remove 
any grease spots with 'a suitable 
cleanser. 

To Remove Grease from Carpets. — 
Substances recommended for taking 
grease out of a carpet are ammonia, 
saltpeter, ox gall, chloroform, ether, 
gasoline, fuller's earth, potter's clay, 
and various combinations of these. 

To Remove Grease. — Apply gaso- 
line, benzine, or naphtha with a sponge 
or stiff scrubbing brush. 

Or, if the grease is fresh, cover the 
spot with a layer of French chalk or 
fuller's earth. Lay a piece of brown 



paper or blotting paper upon the chalk,, 
and place on it a hot flatiron. Change 
the iron occasionally. The grease will 
be melted and absorbed by the chalk 
and powder. 

Or apply pure ox gall with a stiff 
brush. 

Or apply chloroform or ether with 
a toothbrush. 

Or shave 2 ounces of hard white 
soap in 2 quarts of water. Add 2 
oimces of aqua ammonia, 1 ounce of 
glycerin, and 1 ounce of ether; mix 
and a1)ply with a stiff brush. 

Or shave and dissolve 2 ounces of 
hard white soap in 1 quart of water. 
Add 2 ounces of ammonia and 1 tea- 
spoonful of saltpeter and apply with 
a brush. 

To Remove Ink Stains. — Cover 
quickly with dry salt or starch. Take 
this up with a spoon as it soaks up 
the ink, but do not rub or sweep it. 
It will take up the surplus and pre- 
vent the spot from spreading. Leave 
the spot covered with dry salt and 
test to see the kind of ink spilled. 
Put some of the ink on a piece of 
writing paper and allow it to dry. 
Or, better, take some writing made 
with the same ink that has stood sev- 
eral days and test that. First apply 
water, and if the ink runs, after hav- 
ing been thoroughly dried, it is proba- 
bly stylographic ink, made of coal-tar 
products, eosin or nigrosine. In this 
case you must not use buttermilk or 
any acid. Use instead an alkali, as 
potash lye or sal soda, diluted with 
water. If the dry ink does not run 
when touched with water, it is proba- 
bly an iron-gall ink or logwood ink 
with or without aniline dyes. For 
these inks use dilute sulphuric acid, 1 
part of acid to 10 parts of water. 
If this takes out the color, restore it 
with aqua ammonia. 

Or cover with fresh salt or starch, 
and moisten with buttermilk or salts 
of sorrel or tartaric acid, and let stand 
until dry. Repeat if necessary. 

If the colors fade, apply aqua am- 
monia. 

To Remove Kerosene. — To remove 
kerosene spilled on a carpet, cover the 



272 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



spot with blotting paper or brown 
paper and press with a hot iron. Re- 
peat if necessary. 

Or cover with corn meal, starch, or 
salt, and let stand until dry. 

To Eemove Whitewash.— -Scrub with 
soapsuds applied with a brush, and 
renew the color by applying aqua am- 
monia, vinegar, or other acid. 

To Remove Soot. — To remove soot 
which sometimes, in case of a defec- 
tive flue or turning up a lamp too high, 
fills a room and falls on the carpet, 
sprinkle the floor liberally with corn 
meal and sweep carefully a little 
at a time, taking up the sweepings 
as you go and before they are trod- 
den on. Continue to apply corn 
meal and sweep until the soot is all 
removed. 

To Take Tip Matting. — Take up the 
matting, roll it up, and shake as much 
dust from it as possible by jarring it 
on the floor. UnroU it on a green 
lawn and apply the hose to it, or dash 
pails of water on it until it is thor- 
oughly clean. This should be done on 
a hot day, and the matting should be 
thoroughly dried in the open air as 
quickly as possible. Take it in before 
the dew falls and air it again the 
second day if it does not quite dry 
the first. 

Or draw the matting over a table 
and apply moist corn meal with a 
scrubbing brush, thoroughly cleaning 
a section at a time. 

Or scrub with bran water. 

To Clean Matting on the Floor. — 
Matting should not be washed or 
scrubbed with soapy water, as damp- 
ness is injurious to it. It may be 
swept with a broom previously dipped 
in hot water, and afterwards gone 
over with a flannel cloth or sponge 
dipped in salt and water. The salt 
wiU freshen the colors and prevent 
the matting from turning yellow. It 
should be quickly dried with a second 
cloth before the water soaks in. 

Or borax may be used in the water 
in place of salt. Afterwards, to give 
it a gloss and freshen the colors, it 
may be gone over with a cloth slightly 
moistened in fresh milk. 



To Bemove Stains from Hatting. 
— Matting that has been badly stained 
may be cleaned by washing with a 
solution of oxalic acid in the propor- 
tion of 1 oimce of acid to 1 pint of 
water. Apply to the stain with a stiff 
brush, use as little of the solution as 
possible, and afterwards wipe off with 
a dry cloth. Care must be taken to 
throw out the water immediately after 
using, as oxalic acid is a deadly 
poison. 

To Hemove Grease Spots. — Cover 
with French chalk and moisten with 
turpentine. Let this stand for a. few 
days, and .then scrub off with a stiff 
brush. 

To lay Matting. — Before laying 
matting, cover the floor with several 
thicknesses of old newspapers. Mat- 
tftig is porous and lets the dust 
through. The paper catches this and 
admits of its being easily removed at 
house-cleaning time. Paper also pro- 
tects the matting from the sharp and 
uneven edges of the boards. 

Matting may be tacked down with 
ordinary carpet tacks or double- 
pointed brads. 

Or the different breadths may be 
sewed together with strong linen or 
cotton thread, using loose buttonhole 
stitches an inch or an inch and a half 
apart. To prevent tacking, the edges 
may be fastened with flour paste. 

Or, to avoid sewing, the edges of 
the several breadths may be pasted 
down. 

Pieces of matting may also be used 
as rugs on hard-wood floors, especially 
for bedroom use in summer, by sewing 
the breadths together with buttonhole 
stitches and binding the cut ends with 
cotton braid or tape. 

To lay Oilcloths. — Oilcloths may be 
put down without the use of tacks by 
making a cooked paste of flour and 
water somewhat thicker than flour 
starch. Lay the oilcloth in place and 
apply a strip of paste about an inch 
wide first to the floor and afterwards 
to the edge of the oilcloth. Stand a 
heavy board edgewise over this strip 
until the oilcloth sticks. 

Or, if Conditions are right, merely 



HOUSE CLEANING 



273 



press the oilcloth down with the hands. 
The edges may be fastened to the 
floor in the same manner. 

Thus the oilcloth can be taken up 
when necessary without the injury 
caused by tacks and with little difB- 
culty. 

To Repair a Smyrna Rug. — Shak- 
ing a Smyrna rug often ravels out the 
ends. Continue this raveling so as to 
expose two or three inches of the 
woolen filling. Tie and knot the loose 
threads to form a fringe. This will 
prevent additional raveling, and the 
fringe will stand as much wear as if 
new. Use the pattern as a guide, so 
as to make both ends uniform. 

To Patch Rug:s and Carpets. — A 
hole in a rug or carpet may be patched 
with the rubber mending tissue used 
for patching garments. Dampen a 
piece of the same material or of bur- 
lap, lay over this a piece of the rub- 
ber mending tissue, and place it di- 
rectly under the hole. Over all lay a 
piece of brown paper and press with 
a hot iron. Clip off any frayed edges 
with scissors or darn them with the 
ravelings. 

To Clean Sheepskin Rugs. — ^A sheep- 
skin rug should never be inmiersed in 
water. The less the pelt side is wet 
the better. Hence tack the skin on a 
barrel, pelt side down, and apply hot 
soapsuds to the wool side with a stiff, 
clean scrubbing brush until it is clean. 
Rinse well by dashing cold water 
upon it, putting in the last water suf- 
ficient bluing to make the wool ap- 
pear white, and leave it on the barrel 
to dry. This process does not expose 
the pelt to the rays of the sun, which 
would cause it to become dry and 
hard. After the wool is dry go over 
it carefully with a clean currycomb 
or other coarse comb to prevent the 
wool from matting. It will thus be 
left fluffy and white as snow. 

Stair Carpets. — The better plan is 
to leave the stairs uncarpeted, but if 
a stair carpet is used the steps should 
be padded, especially over the edges, 
as otherwise the carpet will tend to 
wear along the edge. For this pur- 
pose use cotton batting or carpet felt 



or folded newspapers, tacking them 
at the back of each step and allowing 
them to fail two or three inches over 
the edge. This will also assist in dead- 
ening the sound of footsteps. 

ClEAITIirG AUD REFINISHING WOOD 
FLOORS 

Cracks in Floors. — Place in a 
saucepan 1 pound of pastry flour and 
rub up with a little cold water un- 
til free from lumps. Add 3 quarts 
of boiling water, place on the stove, 
bring to a boil, and stir in 1 table- 
spoonful of alum. Cut a quantity of 
newspaper into fine bits and stir it 
into this paste until it is about as 
thick as putty. Boil and stir until 
the mass is of a uniform consistency. 
Fill the cracks with this by means 
of a putty knife. Or a case knife 
with the point broken or filed square 
across will answer the purpose. Be 
sure to crowd it into the crack as 
deep as possible and finish level with 
the surface. This hardens like papier- 
mach^, is of similar appearance and 
nearly as hard as the wood itself, and 
is very durable. 

Or make a strong glue size of 1 
ounce of glue to 16 ounces of water, 
and while boiling hot stir in bits of 
newspaper as above; or equal quanti- 
ties of fine sawdust and prepared 
chalk; or plaster of Paris, and apply 
as above. Any of these may be mixed 
with coloring matter to match the 
boards. 

Or cracks may be fiUed with putty. 
But this is not equally good, since 
with shellac or varnish it shows 
through, and is of a slightly different 
color than the wood. 

Oil for Floors. — To oil floors, use 
linseed oil boiled. First remove all 
previous wax, paint, or varnish, wash 
the floor clean and let it dry. Ap- 
ply the oil with a paint brush, keep- 
ing it at the boiling point by means 
of a small alcohol stove or other- 
wise. 

One or two coats of oil, applied 
twice a year, will greatly improve 
kitchen or other rough wood floors, 



274 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



and the addition of a coat of wax 
wUl improve the finish and prevent 
the oil from soiling anything. 

An oiled floor should be cared for 
In the same manner as a waxed floor, 
without the use of soap, washing 
powder, or an alkali. 

To Color Floor Oil. — Add J table- 
spoonful of burnt umber to each 
quart of oil to darken it. Or an equal 
amount of yellow ocher to make it 
light. 

Stains for Floors. — Ordinary oil 
and lead paints are not suitable for 
floors for two reasons: they tend to 
soften the wood, and also to crack, 
chip, and peel, or wear away in spots 
that are most trodden, so as to give 
the floor an uneven appearance. 
Hence suitable stain^ (which are the 
same colored pigments that are used 
in paints thinned with oils so as to 
penetrate into the fiber of the wood, 
but without lead) are better for this 
purpose. 

Or the pigment may be applied in 
a vehicle of glue size. 

Or various dyestuffs, as aniline and 
other dyes, may be applied, either 
dissolved in water or oil. 

But the following wUl be found 
the most generally satisfactory: 

For a, floor 16 feet square, or ap- 
proximately 250 square feet of floor 
space, one heavy or two thin coats, 
mix 3 quarts of cold-drawn linseed 
oil and 1 quart of turpentine, to 
which add 4 ounces of Japan dryer. 
Stir in about 3 heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of any desired pigment or mix- 
ture of pigment, or enough to bring 
the whole to about the consistency 
of ordinary lead and oil paint, and 
bring to a boil over a slow fire. Dis- 
solve with gentle heat 2 or 3 ounces 
of yellow beeswax in a little tur- 
pentine, taking care that the tur- 
pentine does not catch fire. Stir in 
the wax, remove from the fire, and 
when about lukewarm, thin with tur- 
pentine to about the consistency of 
new milk. Try the stain on a piece 
of the same kind of wood as the 
floor before using, to see if the color 
is right. Soft wood like pine will 



absorb more of the color than hard 
wood like maple. Hence it is im- 
portant to thin the stain to the 
right consistency to get the desired 
effect. Take care to apply the stain 
evenly with the brush, as in painting, 
and lay it on freely the way of the 
grain, rather than against it. The 
addition of turpentine causes the 
stain to strike into the wood. 

Or in place of cold-drawn linseed 
oil with turpentine, use boiled linseed 
oil mixed with any desired pigment, 
and apply boiling hot. Keep the oil 
at the boiling point by means of an 
alcohol stove or otherwise. 

Or dissolve 3 ounces of glue in Si 
quarts of soft water. Remove from 
the stove and stir in 3 pounds of 
yellow ocher. Apply with a paint 
brush while hot, and foUow with a 
coat of boiled linseed oil. Let stand 
over night before walking on it. 

Or to give the floor a deep black 
like ebony, boU 1 pound of logwood 
chips in 2 quarts of water down to 

1 quart, and apply one or two coats 
with a paint brush. When dry, fol- 
low with a strong solution of sul- 
phate of iron in water. Afterwards, 
when dry, apply a thin coat of boiled 
linseed oil, wax, and polish. 

Or to 6 quarts of caustic-potash 
lye made from wood ashes add 1 
pound of copperas more or less, to 
give a light or dark oak shade as de- 
sired, and apply one or more coats 
with a brush. When dry, varnish the 
floor, wax, and polish. 

Pigment for Stains. — ^Add any of 
the following pigments in the form 
of dry powder at the rate of about 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls to the gal- 
lon of stain, to obtain the colors 
mentioned : 

To imitate mahogany, use burnt 
sienna. For black .walnut, burnt um- 
ber or Vandyke brown. For cherry, 
burnt sienna mixed vrith iron oxide. 
For yellow, raw sienna, yellow ocher, 
or raw umber. Or any of the above 
may be combined freely to form 
tints or shades as desired. Experi- 
ments may be made by adding the 
pigments a little at a time and test- 



HOUSE CLEANING 



275 



ing the color from time to time on a 
piece of board of the same kind of 
wood as the floor is made of. 

Varnish for Stained Floors. — 
Place in a 6-quart saucepan about 
10 ounces of linseed oil. Bring to a 
boil over a brisk fire, stirring con- 
stantly, and stir in 3 ounces of 
pure white borate of manganese in 
very fine powder. Heat separately 8 
pounds of linseed oil to the boUing 
point, and add it to the first solution 
in a thin stream, stirring constantly. 
Continue to heat the mixture as hot 
as possible without burning. Stir 
constantly and boil for half an hour. 
Take off the stove and strain through 
cheese cloth. Apply one or two coats 
while hot, and foUow when dry with 
shellac or hard white copal varnish. 

Or oil stains may be followed by 
ordinary shellac varnish with the ad- 
dition of 4 ounces of cold-drawn lin- 
seed oil to each quart of varnish. One 
quart of varnish wUl be required for 
a floor 12 by 13 or about ISO square 
feet of surface. 

To Clean Stained Floors. — Obtain 
a quantity of coarse sawdust of non- 
resinous wood free from dust or 
dirt, and store it in a bin where it 
will be kept dry and clean. Scatter 
this sawdust freely over the floor and 
scrub the floor with it by means of 
a stiff scrubbing brush, as if using 
water. The sawdust may then be 
swept up and burned, and the floor 
wiped up with a soft cloth drawn 
over the head of a broom. This is 
suitable treatment for unpainted, 
waxed, or varnished floors if much 
dirt has been tracked in upon them. 

Or wring a mop out of kerosene 
oil and wipe up with this. Use about 
1 quart for an ordinary floor. Use 
for this purpose only refined kero- 
sene of the best' quality, but do not 
use it freely on oak, as it tends to 
darken the wood. 

Care of Oil-stained Floors. — An 
oil-stained • floor will not soak up 
grease or show spots like a bare 
floor, and will not require scouring. 
It may be wiped up by means of a 
mop wrung out in clear warm water. 



but do not use soft soap, washing 
powders, or any alkali on an oiled 
surface, as the alkali will dissolve the 
oU. Oil-stained floors may be pol- 
ished with wax or turpentine if de- 
sired. 

Or the oa stain may be followed 
by one or more coats of hard white 
copal or sheUac varnish before the 
wax is added. 

To Clean Wood Floors. — Detergents 
recommended for cleaning kitchen 
floors and other coarse and unpainted 
woodwork are caustic potash and soda 




" Clean a Small Section, 



lyes, soft soap, sand, lime, chloride of 
lime, ammonia, kerosene, gasoline, and 
various mixtures of these. 

To scrub a wood floor, first take up 
grease spots. Then apply hot soap- 
suds with a scrubbing brush or mop, 
rinse with clear water, and wipe dry. 
Clean and dry a small section of the 
floor at a time and change the water 
frequently. 

Mops and Pails. — ^A strong pail fit- 
ted with a small wringer such as is 
used by janitors of large buildings 
will be found a great convenience. To 
save stooping, place this on a chair. 
Use two mops of soft woolen rags, 
one of small size for washing the floor, 
and a larger one for wiping dry. 



276 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



TTnpaiilted Floors. — An unpainted 
board floor, "white enough to eat 
off," as the homely saying goes, is 
very attractive, but requires a good 
deal of hard work. Our grandmoth- 
ers used to cover unpainted floors 
with sand. Thus the family, in the 
process of walking to and fro, kept 
the floor boards scoured to a snowy 
whiteness. This is still a good way 
to whiten an unpainted board floor. 
Sprinkle the floor freely with clean 




"A Pail with a Small Wringer." 

white sand, and if there is no objec- 
tion, let it remain a few days. Or 
the floor may be scoured with dry 
sand by means of a stiff scrubbing 
brush. The best sand for this pur- 
pose Is obtained by purchasing mar- 
ble clippings and heating them to 
redness in an old iron kettle or other- 
wise. When cold, they may be read- 
ily pulverized. 

Or prepare a scouring mixture 
composed of 3 parts of sand, 2 parts 
of soft soap or soap jelly, and 1 part 
of lime. Apply with a stiff scrubbing 
brush, rinse with clear water, and rub 
dry with a flannel cloth. This has 
the additional advantage that it kiUs 
vermin. 



Or mix equal parts of slaked lime 
and calcinated soda. Let stand 
about an hour and add eight times 
their weight of cold water. Place on 
the fire and bring to a boU. Wet the 
floor with this by means of a mop. 
Let stand over night to dry. Next 
morning scrub by means of a stiff 
brush with scouring sand and water. 

Or moisten a thin flannel cloth with 
kerosene, draw it over the head of a 
broom, and wipe up the floor each 
day with this. It removes dust and 
grease, and thus obviates the necessity 
for scrubbing oftener than once every 
two or three weeks. 

Or scatter sand over the floor and 
with an old whisk broom sprinkle 
upon the sand a solution of 1 pound 
of caustic potash or soda in 1 quart 
of water. Scrub with hot water and 
scrubbing brush, or mop, rinse, and 
dry. 

Or apply soapsuds and sal soda. 

Or dissolve tmslaked lime in potash 
lye and apply with a mop. 

Or add 1 tablespoonful of ammonia 
to a pail of water. 

Or, for musty floors, use chloride 
of lime, J pound to a pailful of water. 

Spots and Stains.— -Scatter ground 
quartz-stone sand, or marble sand, 
over the stain. Pour over it a strong 
solution of caustic soda or potash at 
the rate of 1 pound to a pint of wa- 
ter, and scrub by means of a stiff 
bristle brush wet in soapsuds. 

Or scour with a mixture of 1 part 
of chloride of lime and 3 parts of 
sand. This vriU bleach the boards 
and destroy vermin. 

To remove whitewash, scrub with 
vinegar and water. 

To remove mold, first scour with 
soap and sand, then sprinkle with 
chloride of lime. Pour on boiling 
water and scrub by means of a stiff 
brush. 

To Remove Grease. — To prevent 
hot grease from sinking into the 
floor, sop cold water on it with a 
cloth to harden it. Scrape off what 
is on the surface with a dull knife. 
Remove the stain Vith a wet cloth 
sprinkled with baking soda. 



HOUSE CLEANING 



277| 



Or mix equal parts of fuller's earth 
or pearlash to a paste with boiling 
water. Cover the grease spot, and 
let stand over night. Scour by means 
of a stiff brush with sand or other 
cleanser. 

Or kill the grease by pouring tur- 
pentine over it and then scour as 
above. 

Or cover the spot with slaked 
lime. Wet the lime and let it stand 
over night. Remove it and wash 
the spot vidth a cloth wet in soda 
and water. 

Or sponge with gasoline, but take 
care not to work near a lighted 
stove. Greasy walls and other wood- 
work may first be rubbed with gaso- 
line to kill the grease before wash- 
ing them. 

Or wash greasy paint with fresh 
slaked lime dUuted to the consist- 
ency of milk. Let dry and rub off. 
Repeat if necessary. 

Or sprinkle a grease spot with 
whiting, fuller's earth, or laundry 
starch. Lay blotting paper or brown 
paper over it and over that a hot 
flatiron. Let stand until cold. Re- 
peat if necessary. 

Or apply a paste of wood ashes 
and soap. Let stand over night, and 
wa«h off with soda and water. Re- 
peat if necessary. 

Or apply sand mixed with chlo- 
ride of lime, and scrub with a stiff 
brush. 

Or scrub with a mixture of pow- 
dered pumice stone and any strong 
washing powder. 

To Remove Ink Spots from 
Floors. — If the ink contains coal-tar 
products, eosin or nigrosine, use a 
strong alkali, as caustic soda or pot- 
ash; otherwise use a strong acid, 
as muriatic acid, vinegar, salts of 
lemon, or oxalic acid diluted with 
water. 

Dissolve a solution of 1 part of 
oxalic acid and 10 parts of boiling 
water. Apply by means of a cloth, 
and afterwards rinse with water con- 
taining sal soda to neutralize the 
acid. 

Or cover the ink spots with a paste 



of chloride of lime moistened with 
water. 

Or scour out the ink spots with a 
solution of 1 part of sulphuric acid in 
20 parts of water, applied by means 
of a stiff scrubbing brush with sand 
and water. Rinse with a strong so- 
lution of ammonia or sal soda in 
water. 

CLEANING FAINT 

To Clean faint. — To clean paint 
and varnish, whiting, fuller's earth, 
cold tea, wood ashes, kerosene, soda, 
ammonia, turpentine, and bran wa- 
ter are all recommended. Do not 
use much soap or washing powders 
containing free alkali to clean paint, 
nor any soap at all to clean varnish. 
Soap tends to streak or to remove 
paint. Keep the water warm, but 
not hot, and change frequently. Use 
a flannel cloth or chamois, as cotton 
and similar goods leave lint, which 
sticks to the paint. 

Or use outing flannel or flannel- 
ette. 

Old underwear makes good wash 
cloths for woodwork. Moisture is 
good for woodwork, and hence it 
should be wiped off once a week 
with a damp cloth, and will be im- 
proved by a thorough washing sev- 
eral times a year. If woodwork is 
too dry, it tends to shrink. Hence -it 
is important to wash woodwork for 
the sake of moisture as well as for 
the sake of cleanliness. Beware of 
recipes which call for soft soap, lye, 
and strong soapsuds to clean paint. 
They will remove the dirt, but in 
time vdll take the paint with it. 

To Clean White Paint and Var- 
nish. — To clean white and other 
delicate colored paints and varnish, 
moisten chamois or flannel cloth 
with warm water, dip it in whiting 
or fuller's earth, and rub over the 
surface gently. This will remove the 
dirt and leave the paint as bright as 
new. Rinse with clear water and 
dry with a soft cloth. 

Fuller's earth is an excellent sub- 
stitute for soap. 



278 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or, for white paint, moisten a 
cloth in mUk, dip it in whiting or 
fuller's earth, and apply. 

Or, to wash varnish or delicate 
paint, use cold tea, with or without 
whiting or fuller's earth. Apply 
with flannel and rub until clean. 

Or boU a pound of bran in a gal- 
lon of water and with it wash the 
paint. This will thoroughly clean 
the most delicate surfaces without 
inj uring them. 

To Clean Coftrse Paint. — First go 
over it with a cloth dipped in kero- 
sene to loosen the smoke and grime. 
Then rinse with J teacupful of kero- 
sene in 1 gallon of water, and wipe 
dry with a soft cloth. 

Or mix baking soda with water 
to form a thin paste. Smear the 
paint with this and wipe ojSf with a 
cloth wrung out of clear warm wa- 
ter. Cover a small surface at a 
time and remove the soda before it 
dries. 

Or wet a cloth in strong soda and 
water, wash the paint quickly, rinse 
with clear water, and dry at once. 
This should not be used on varnish 
or delicate paint. The cloth should 
be damp rather than wet. 

Or mix 1 tablespoonful of am- 
monia with 1 quart or more of 
warm water for coarse or dirty 
woodwork. This saves labor and 
takes off the dirt, but should not be 
used on varnish or delicate painted 
surfaces. 

Or dissolve 1 bar of hard white 
soap in 1 gallon of boiling water. 
Add 1 tablespoonful each of sal 
soda and saltpeter and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of ammonia. Bottle and cork 
tightly for future use. 

Or mix 1 quart of sweet oil vrith 

1 pint of turpentine and apply. 

To Polish Woodwork. — Mix equal 
parts of lard oil and turpentine, or 

2 parts of sweet oil to 1 part of 
turpentine, and rub the woodwork 
lightly with a cloth saturated with 
the mixture. This may be used on 
any painted surface after washing. 

To Remove Smoke Stains. — To re- 
move smoke stains, wet a cloth, dip 



it into very fine sifted wood or coal 
ashes, and scour the paint clean. 

To Remove Katch Stains. — ^To re- 
move the marks left by scratching 
matches on paint, rub gently with a 
slice of fresh lemon and rinse with 
clear water, using a soft cloth. 

To Remove Paint. — Detergents 
recommended for removing paint 
from woodwork are turpentine, ben- 
zine, gasoline, chloroform, oxalic 
acid, ether, alcohol, caustic potash, 
sal soda, and quicklime. When paint 
begins to check, it indicates that its 
ingredients were impure, and it must 
be removed. 

To soften the paint, apply with a 
paint brush wood alcohol, spirits of 
turpentine, benzine, or a strong so- 
lution of equal parts of oxalic acid 
and water. Any of these wiQ soften 
the paint so that it can be wiped off 
with a coarse cloth or scrubbed 
away. Repeat as often as necessary. 

Or, if these do not soften the 
paint, apply chloroform, either alone 
or mixed with an equal quantity of 
spirits of anunonia. Moisten only a 
small surface, and scrape off the 
paint while moist before proceeding 
farther. 

Or slake 3 pounds of quicklime, 
add 1 pound of potash, and dilute 
with water to the consistency of 
cream. Apply with a paint brush 
and let stand over night. Remove 
by washing the surface with a flan- 
nel cloth or mop dipped in a strong 
solution of sal soda and ammonia. 

Or scrub with a stiff scrubbing 
brush. 

Or dissolve a bar of hard yellow 
soap in twice its bulk of water. 
When cool, add 1 tablespoonful of 
potash lye and i cupful of kerosene. 
Before the mixture sets, apply to 
the woodwork with a paint brush. 
After 34 hours apply a strong so- 
lution of sal soda with a scrubbing 
brush. 

Or paint may be burned off by 
going over the surface with a flat 
flame produced by a regular lamp 
made for that purpose, called a 
"paint burner." 



HOUSE CLEANING 



279 



Or apply, a red-hot iron. Take 
care to remove the paint as soon as 
it is soft and before the wood is 
charred or burned. 

To Bemove Putty. — Go over tlie 
surface of the putty with a red-hot 
poker or other iron, taking care not 
to burn or char the woodwork. The 
putty can then be peeled off with a 
blunt knife blade. 

Or with a brush apply a paste 
made of soap jelly containing caus- 
tic potash or soda. 

Or apply dilute sulphuric, nitric, 
or muriatic acid with a brush. But 
if any of these soaks into the wood- 
work, it tends to rot the frames. 
Hence burning is the better method. 

To Destroy the Odor of Faint. — 
FiU a paU partly full of hay and 
pour over it boiling water. Let it 
stand in the room which has been 
painted. 

WHITEWASHIITG 

Before applying whitewash, go over 
the wall or ceiling with a brush or 
dust cloth to remove dust, and wash 
with clear water. Fill all cracks and 
broken places with new plaster. Cut 
away the edges of broken places to 
make a square edge. Fill small cracks 
and bre^s with plaster of Paris. 
Do not apply whitewash until the 
surface is quite dry. Give two or 
more coats as needed. 

To Prepare Whitewash. — The prin- 
cipal ingredients in various kinds of 
whitewash are slaked lime, whiting, 
Paris white or sulphate of baryta, 
oxide and sulphate of zinc, alum, 
sugar, rice and wheat flour, and glue 
mixed with milk or water. These 
ingredients are used in various com- 
binations. The addition of a little 
bluing will make a clearer white, 
and a small amount of salt assists 
by making the whitewash stick bet- 
ter. 

The following mixtures are recom- 
mended: 

Dissolve 2 ounces of fresh slaked 
lime in a small amount of milk to 
the consistency of cream. Add suf- 



ficient milk to make 8 quarts and 
stir in slowly 5 pounds of whiting. 
Mix the whole mass thoroughly by 
beating with a wooden spoon or an 
egg beater. For a clear white, add 
a little bluing. For a cream color, 
add a small amount of ocher, or tint 
with any other coloring matter as 
desired. 

Or mix 4 potmds of Spanish whit- 
ing with cold water to the consist- 
ency of milk. Dissolve 2 ounces of 
pure white glue in hot water over a 
slow fire, and pour it into the whit- 
ing in a thin stream while hot, stir- 
ring thoroughly. 

Or slake a sufficient amount of 
lime in water to make a pailful of 
whitewash, and while still hot stir in 
a pint of flour boiled with water to 
form a thin cooked starch. Stir well 
and dilute with hot water to the 
right consistency. 

Or prepare a wash of slaked lime 
in a pail or tub and strain through 
cheese cloth. Mix 4 ounces of whit- 
ing or pulverized burnt alum, 3 
pounds of sugar, and 2 quarts of 
rice flour with hot water and bring 
to a boil, stirring constantly. Add 
this mixture to 1 pailful of sifted 
lime wash. Add also 1 pound of 
best white glue dissolved in boiling 
water over a slow fire. This is a very 
briUiant and durable wash and will 
last for many years. 

Or slake 8 quarts of lime, and add 
1 pound of sulphate of zinc and i 
poimd of common salt dissolved in 
water. This is a hard, firm wash 
that will not crack. 

Or mix 6 pounds of Paris white 
with cold water to form a paste, and 
dilute with hot water to the consist- 
ency of milk. Stir in 4 ounces of the 
best white glue dissolved in boiling 
water over a slow fire. This is a 
cheap wash and gives a fine, bril- 
liant surface. 

To Color Whitewash. — For a fine 
clear white, add a little bluing. 

For a reddish pink, add Spanish 
brown. 

For a red stone color, mix com- 
mon clay with Spanish brown. 



280 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



For yellow, add yellow ocher (or 
chrome yellow, which 'goes farther 
and makes a better shade). 

For gray or lead color, add lamp- 
black. 

For cream color, yellow ocher. 

For stone color, 3 parts each of 
umber and lampblack. 

For fawn color, 4 parts of umber, 
2 parts of Indian red, and 1 part of 
lampblack. 

Do not use green with whitewash. 

The quantity of coloring matter 
required depends upon the amount 
of whitewash and the warmth of the 
tint desired, and must be deter- 
mined by experiment, but approxi- 
mately two or three pounds to a 
pailful of wash wUl be advisable. 

Whitewash for Outdoor Use. — To 
make a good whitewash for fences, 
outbuildings, barns, stucco, and oth- 
er surfaces exposed to the weather, 
slake 12 quarts of lime in a tight 
cask or barrel. Cover with canvas 
to keep in the steam. Strain through 
a large piece of cheese cloth or a 
fine sieve and add 3 quarts of coarse 
salt and 2 gallons of water. Bring 
this to a boil and skim off any im- 
purities. Stir in 3 pounds of potash, 
8 quarts of fine sand, and coloring 
matter as desired. This wash may 
be applied to wood, brick, or stone, 
looks as good as paint, and is weath- 
erproof, fireproof, and very durable. 
It is an excellent preservative for 
shingle roofs and walls. 

Or slake 8 quarts of lime in a 
tight cask or barrel, strain, and add 
2 quarts of salt dissolved in hot wa- 
ter. Add boiling starch made of 2 
poimds of rice flour. First mix the 
starch with cold water to a thin 
paste, dilute with hot water, and boil 
the mixture 16 minutes. Stir in 
while boiling hot. ' Then stir in 4 
ounces of powdered whiting and 8 
ounces of best white glue dissolved 
in hot water over a slow fire. Dilute 
with 3 gallons of hot water, stir vig- 
orously, cover, and let stand 3 or 4 
days. This mixture should cover 24 
to 36 square yards of wood, brick, 
or stone. It may be used instead 



of oil paints, is much cheaper, and 
will last for years. It should be 
applied hot, which may be done by 
using a portable furnace or by sus- 
pending a kettle over a camp fire by 
means of three poles in the form of 
a tripod. 

Or slake 8 quarts of lime, strain, 
and add 1 pound of dissolved glue 
and 1 or 2 quarts of boiled linseed 
oil. Dilute with water. 

Or dissolve in hot water 4 quarts 
of water lime, 4 quarts of fresh- 
slaked lime, 4 pounds of powdered 
yeUow ocher, and 4 pounds of burnt 
umber. This gives a rich cream col- 
or for fences, outhouses, and barns. 

Wash for Bricks. — To make a 
wash for red brick walls, dissolve 3 
ounces of glue in 1 gallon of water 
over a slow fire. Soaking the glue 
for a day or two beforehand will 
make it dissolve more quickly. Bring 
the glue to a boil and stir in 1 
tablespoonful of powdered alum, i 
pound of Venetian red, and 1 pound 
of Spanish brown. Or vary these 
proportions according to taste. Mix 
and apply with a brush. 

To Prepare Calcimine. — Dissolve 
with boiling water in separate ket- 
tles 10 pounds of Spanish whiting, 
8 ovmces of white glue, and 8 ounces 
of powdered alum. Use in each case 
enough water to make a thin cream. 
Pour together, stirring vigorously, 
strain through cheese cloth, and add 
1 teaspoonful of bluing. Apply while 
warm. Add coloring matter to suit, 
and dilute with soap jelly to the 
right consistency. Remove paper, if 
any, wash off old calcimine or lime, 
fill holes or cracks with plaster of 
Paris, and apply a sizing of glue or 
shellac. 

Mix calcimine with any coloring 
matter desired and apply the same- 
as whitewash. 

Blue Wash for Walls and Ceil- 
ings.— Dissolve 1 pound of blue vit- 
riol and 8 ounces of whiting in 3 
quarts of water. Boil with gentle 
heat 2 or 3 hours, stirring fre- 
quently. Remove from the fire, stir, 
and allow to cool. Pour the liquor 



HOUSE CLEANING 



from the sediment, mix the latter 
with 1 ounce of common glue dis- 
solved in 1 gallon of water, and ap- 
ply with a brush. 

To Faint Frescoes. — To paint in 
fresco consists in applying colors 
not injured by lime to the fresh 
mortar, stucco, or plaster while still 
damp. The advantage of this sort 
of painting is that it incorporates 
with the mortar, dries with it, and 
is very durable. Frescoes may be 
applied in any design, free hand or 
by means of stencil. Or the walls 
may be painted in fresco with tints 
or solid colors. 

Glazing for Frescoes. — ^To protect 
frescoes, dilute paraffin with benzol, 
and apply a thin coating with a 
brush. 

PAPEB HANGING 

To Remove Wall Paper. — To pre- 
pare a waU for fresh treatment, 
whether by painting, calcimining, or 
hanging fresh paper, first remove 
any paper that may be on the waUs. 
Never lay one paper over another. 
The germ of disease, eggs of ver- 
min, and other obnoxious matter are 
not to be gotten rid of by thisi. proc- 
ess. Wet the walls with boiling wa- 
ter applied with a whitewash brush, 
and remove the paper with a hand 
scraper or a large case knife or 
wide-bladed putty knife. Do not al- 
low the scrapings to harden on the 
floor, as when dry they are very dif- 
ficult to remove. After the paper is 
off, wash down the waUs with pure 
water or strong soda water or vine- 
gar and water applied with a large 
sponge or brush. Let them dry thor- 
oughly before treating. 

To Bepair Plaster. — To repair 
cracks formed in plaster by the set- 
tling of new houses, the sagging of 
old houses, the decay of ceilings and 
floor timbers, and accidental breaks 
in the plaster, first cut away the 
edges of the cracks or breaks with a 
sharp knife. Make the edge straight 
or slightly slanting in. Then fill 
with plaster of Paris mixed with 



water, to which may be added vine- 
gar, flour paste, or sand. 

Or fill with paper pulp moistened 
with glue. 

To mend small breaks, mix plaster 
of Paris with cold water and apply 
quickly with a case knife, smoothing 
the plaster as you apply it. Mix 
a small quantity at a time and work 
quickly, as the plaster hardens very 
fast. 

Or to prevent plaster of Paris 
from hardening quickly, when repair- 
ing larger breaks that take more 
material and more time, mix 1 table- 
spoonful of plaster of Paris with 3 
or 3 tablespoonfuls of fine sand and 
dilute with vinegar. The more vine- 
gar used, the slower the plaster will 
set. 

Or mix plaster of Paris with an 
equal quantity of cold flour paste. 

Or to mend large cracks and breaks, 
soak bits of wall paper to a pulp 
with water, squeeze out the water, 
and mix to a stiff paste or jell with 
thin size or ghie made by dissolving 
1 ounce of good glue in 1 pint of hot 
water over a slow fire. Pour the 
whole on cheese cloth to remove the 
excess of water. Press the paper 
pulp into the cracks and holes in the 
plaster with a putty knife. But do 
not quite fill the crack to the surface 
of the plaster, as the pulp does not 
admit of a smooth surface. When 
nearly dry, smooth the surface with 
plaster of Paris and let dry before 
tinting or repapering. The paper 
pulp when hard is as strong as wood, 
and cracks filled in this manner will 
never reopen. 

Size for Paper Hanging. — To pre- 
pare walls for paper hanging, first 
remove old paper, mend cracks and 
breaks, and wash down the walls 
with a cloth or sponge wet in warm 
water. Then apply with a whitewash 
brush a solution of 4 ounces of com- 
mon glue dissolved in 1 gallon of 
boiling water over a slow fire. Or 
apply a good shellac size. 

Paste for Paper Hanging. — See 
" Adhesives " elsewhere in this vol- 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To Hang Wall Paper. — First trim 
close to the pattern the plain strip on 
one edge of the paper, but not the 
other. Next measure the height of the 
room by holding an end of the paper 
up to the ceiling and marking along 
the baseboard with any blunt instru- 
ment. Cut along this mark and use 
the first strip as a pattern. Cut a 
sufficient number of additional strips 
for the plain walls, making allowances 
for doors and windows. Lay tlie strips 
face down on a large table, or make 
a suitable bench by laying old boards 




"Lay the Strips on a Table." 



across a couple of chair backs or bar- 
rels. Apply the paste with a white- 
wash brush. If the paper is heavy, 
let it lie after pasting until it is slight- 
ly soaked with the paste, or until the 
surface is sticky rather than wet. 
Commence at a door or window and 
place the close-cut edge against the 
frame. First press the upper end 
against the ceiling and press down- 
ward with a clean cloth. Place the 
next strip so that the close-cut edge 
wUl overUe the half-inch strip left 
upon the first strip, and so proceed 
until the room is finished. 

But remember that aE' heavy-weight 
papers in solid colors, as ingrain, du- 
plex, or cartridge papers, and most 
cloth or fabric wall coverings, must 
be "butted" rather than overlapped. 
That is, the edges must be placed dose 
enough together to cover the wall, but 
without overlapping each other. 

To fit around doors, window cas- 



ings, and other jogs, cut and paste a 
fuU strip, apply it to the wall at the 
ceiling, and press with a cloth down 
to the lop of the door or window 
frame and along the side of the ad- 
jacent wall. Press carefully up to 
the frame and cut along the edge 
vrith a sharp knife to take out the 
section of paper which comes over the 
door or window. It will assist to clip 
diagonally with shears toward the 
corner of the opening, taking care 
not to clip too far, although the di- 
agonal clipping, if it extends into the 
paper on the wall, may be concealed 
by carefully bringing the edg^ to- 
gether. 

To Paper a Boagh Wall. — To paper 
old walls of boards, planks, or wains- 
coting without plaster, or sanded waUs 
that have not been "skimmed" with 
plaster or lime, or other rough sur- 
faces, it may be necessary to first 
hang a layer of cotton cloth to furnish 
a smooth surface on which to hang 
paper. The difficulty of hangipg paper 
on a rough surface is that the paper, 
being stiff, does not yield to the de- 
pressions in the wall. Hence air 
spaces are left that cause the paper 
to blister and peel off. The advan- 
tages of using cloth are that it is 
flexible, that it takes up more paste 
than paper does, and hence that it 
adheres more closely to the wedl. It 
affords a smooth and suitable surface 
on which to hang paper, and gives the 
final result a good appearance. First 
go over rough surfaces with sand- 
paper. Tack this to a large block of 
wood, into which, to avoid using a 
stepladder, insert an old broom han- 
dle. 

Next apply liberally to the walls 
hot boUed flour or other suitable paste 
containing a tablespoonful of borax 
to each gallon of water. Cover with 
paste one strip at a time, and immedi- 
ately hang on the wet wall any suit- 
able cotton stuff. Unbleached cotton 
sheeting or cheese cloth answers this 
purpose; or old sheets, pillowcases, 
and the like may be utilized. After 
hanging the cloth, brush it down with 
a whitewash brush dipped in the hot 



HOUSE CLEANING 



283 



paste, and allow it to dry. Then hang 
the wall paper in the usual manner. 

To Paint Rough Walls. — To obtain 
a suitable surface for painting or tint- 
ing in colors on rough boards, sanded 
walls, stuccb, or other rough surfaces, 
first apply a layer of cotton cloth as 
above and hang a cheap, light-colored 
wall paper. When dry, pare- off with 
a potato knife the seams in the paper 
caused by overlapping the edges, run- 
ning the sharp edge down the seam 
from top to bottom, or use carefully 
an old razor for this purpose. Apply, 
two or three coats of paint and white 
varnish alternately, allowing one to 
dry before putting on the next. The 
varnish will prevent the paint from 
becoming soiled, and the surface will 
last a lifetime. 

To Paint a Whitewashed Wall. — 
Scrape off the loose Ume with any 
blunt-edged tool. A hoe is convenient. 
Go over the wall with sandpaper tacked 
to a large block of wood and fastened 
to a handle. Wash with a sponge to 
remove the lime and let dry. Fill 
cracks and breaks with plaster of 
Paris. They wiU be concealed by the 
paint. Do not use putty for this pur- 
pose, as that when dry would have a 
different-looking surface. Apply one 
or two coats of shellac or glue size, 3 
or 4 ounces of either to a gallon of 
boiling water. Cover with any suit- 
able paint and varnish. 

CASE OF WALLS 

To Glean Wall Paper. — Brush down 
the walls with a hairbrush or dust 
cloth, then cut a loaf of yeast bread 
two or three days old once vertically 
through the middle, and again cross- 
wise. Hold these pieces by the crust 
and rub the wall downward with long, 
light strokes. Do not rub across the 
paper, or rub harder than is neces- 
sary. An ordinary coarse grater held 
in the left hand will be found con- 
venient to rub off the surface of the 
bread as it becomes soUed. Clean thor- 
oughly as you go. 

Or make a stiff dough of rye flour 
and water and apply in the same man- 



ner. The dough should be stiff enough 
not to stick to the hands or to the 
paper. Take a piece as large as the 
fist, dip it in dry corn meal, and use 
untU it becomes soiled. Change as 
often as necessary. 

Or make a similar stiff dough of 
wheat flour and water. Afterwards 
brush down the walls with a clean soft 
brush or dust cloth to remove the 
crumbs. 

To Remove Grease from Wall Paper. 
— To remove grease and oil stains 
from wall paper, fold a piece of 
blotting paper, and in the fold 
spread pipe clay or French chalk. 
Stitch or pin the edges together to 
keep the chalk from falling out. Lay 
this over the grease spot and apply a 
hot iron, taking care not to scorch 
the paper. Change the blotting paper 
occasionally, and, if, necessary, repeat 
with a fresh iron. 

Or make a thick paste of powdered 
pipe clay or French chalk and apply 
it to the spot with a brush. Let it re- 
main until dry. Then brush off and 
repeat if necessary. 

To Dust Walls. — To remove dust 
from walls, use a clean hairbrush or 
window brush with a suitable handle. 
Brush from the top downward. 

Or make a bag to cover the head 
of the broom. 

Or draw a sleeve or leg of a suit 
of old knit underwear over the head 
of the broom. Put the broom handle 
through the large part and draw it 
well down over the broom. The down- 
ward motion of the broom on the wall 
wiU hold the cloth tightly in place. 

Or crumple an old paper bag in the 
hands, but without tearing it, and slip 
it over the head of the broom. This 
can be removed and burned after 
using. 

Or insert into a clean mop handle 
a suitable dust cloth, as several thick- 
nesses of cheese cloth or discarded 
cotton or woolen underwear, and sweep 
down the walls with this. 

To Mend Wall Paper. — To patch a 
spot knocked out of the wall paper, 
or holes in exposed cracks or edges, 
take a. piece of paper to match the 



284 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



pattern aiid expose to the sun until 
it, fades to the same shade. Cut a 
patch £in inch or two larger than the 
brokfen place, lay it face down on a 
piece of glass, moisten it with a suit- 
able paste, and when moist scrape or 
pare the edge with a sharp knife or 
old razor to a very fine slant or bevel. 

Lay on a fresh coat of paste, es- 
pecially around the edge, and apply 
the patch so as to match the design. 
Rub the edges down with gentle strokes 
of a soft cloth, and if done skillfully 
the patch wiU not be noticeable. 

Or, if spots are too small to patch, 
obtain, for a few cents, a child's box 
of water colors, mix the colors to ob- 
tain the right shade, and paint the 
spots with a small camel's-hair brush. 
A 2S-cent box of colors wiU last 
a long time, and a little practice 
will enable anyone to match the colors 
and keep the wall paper in good order. 
Faded spots left on solid-colored wall 
papers by the removal of pictures may 
be renovated by painting them with 
dyestuff. Select a color as near that 
of the paper as possible, follow the 
directions that come with the dye, and 
apply to the wall with a brush. Care 
must be taken not to let the dye drip 
on floor coverings or furniture. When 
first applied, the painted spot wUl be 
darker than the rest, but it wiU quick- 
ly dry to its proper tint or shade. 

To Clean Calcimiued Walls. — Rub 
on corn meal with a coarse cloth, or 
moisten a soft cloth or sponge in aqua 
ammonia and rub spots very lightly. 

To RenoTate Blackened Walls. — A 
smoked or blackened ceiling or wall 
may be cleaned by means of a cloth 
wrung out of a strong solution of 
baking soda and water. Or use vine- 
gar and water. If the stain is not all 
removed, dissolve gum shellac in alco- 
hol to the consistency of milk or 
cream and with it cover the sooty 
parts. Paint or whitewash over the 
shellac. The black will not show 
through. 

To Dry Walls that Are Damp.— If 
there is much dampness in a room 
that is not commonly heated, it may 
cause the walls to mold or mildew, be- 



sides being unhealthy. To absorb the 
dampness, place unslaked lime in fiat, 
open vessels, as dripping pans, plates, 
or saucers. Lime has an affinity for 
dampness and also purifies the air. 
Renew the lime as fast as it becomes 
air-slaked and crumbles into a fine, 
dry powder. 

Walls are often damp for no ap- 
parent cause. Brick and other porous 
walls may hold moisture, or it may 
work up from springs through the 
foundations of brick or stone houses. 
The causes should be sought and, if 
possible, removed. 

To prepare damp walls for cal- 
cimine or paper, make a size of 1 
ounce of glue to 1 gallon of water, 
and add 4 ounces of alum and 4 ounces 
of boiled linseed oil. Apply one or 
two coats and let dry before paper- 
ing. 

Or apply with a whitewash brush, 
during summer when the wall is dryer, 
a solution of 1 pound of castUe or 
other hard white soap in 1 gallon of 
water. Let stand a day or two 
to dry. Follow with a second coat of 
i pound of alum in a pailful of water, 
and let dry before papering. 

Or, if the walls are very damp, ap- 
ply thin sheet lead or tin foil to the 
walls with a suitable cement. Or 
fasten with flat-headed copper tacks. 
These may be driven into the damp 
spots only or, if necessary, into the 
entire wall. Afterwards paper. 

To Bemove Mold from Walls. — ^To 
remove mold or mildew from walls or 
ceilings, apply with a whitewash brush 
a solution of 1 pound of chloride of 
Ume dissolved in a pailful of water. 

To prevent dampness when build- 
ing, after the walls are a few feet 
above the ground lay a row of stone 
or brick with a mixture of tar pitch 
and fine sand in place of mortar. 

WINDOWS, DOOBS, ETC. 

To Clean Windows. — Do not use 
soapsuds on windows. The soap ad- 
heres and requires a good deal of 
rinsing to remove. The easiest way 
to clean windows is with a chamois 



HOUSE CLEANING 



285 



or clean cloth and clear water. Wring 
out the chamois or cloth so as to be 
wet but not dripping, and wash the 
windows clean. Afterwards wring dry 
and go over them again. Finally pol- 
ish with a dry cloth or chamois. Rinse 




Clean Windows wUh a Chamois.' 



the cloth and change the water as 
often as necessary. 

Or, if the windows are much soiled, 
use a little washing soda, but do not 
let water containing soda drip or stain 
the paint on the sash. Wash one pane 
at a time and wipe with a dry cloth. 
Or add a, little gasoline to the water. 
This cleans quickly and gives a high 
polish. 

Or add 1 tablespoonful of kerosene 
or ammonia to 1 quart of water. 

Or, if the windows are not much 
soiled, wet them with a soft cloth 
dampened with kerosene or ammonia 
water, and wipe with a dry cloth. 

Or mix a little dry stardi with cold 
water to the consistency of cream, 
and wash the windows with this, leav- 
ing it to dry on. When dry, rub it off 
with a damp newspaper. This gives 
a high polish without lint or streaks. 

To Remove Paint. — To remove paint 
spots from windows, soften them with 
hot, strong vinegar, and rub a copper 



or silver coin over them to loosen the 
paint. 

To Bemove Putty. — To remove put- 
ty, go over it with a red-hot poker or 
other hot iron, taking care not to 
touch the paint on the window sashes. 
When the putty is hot, slip a dull 
knife blade between it and the wood- 
work and it will readily come off. 
Any other method that will remove 
putty is likely to injure the paint on 
the sashes. 

Or apply two or three coats of par- 
affin oil by means of a small brush, 
allowing each coat a half hour or more 
to penetrate before the next one is 
applied. 

Or apply soft soap freely by means 
of a brush. In a short time the hard- 
ened linseed oil is dissolved, making 
the putty plastic, so that it can be 
readily removed. 

Window Corners. — Use a whisk 
broom to dig out the corners of the 
window sash, or use wings of turkeys, 
geese, or chickens. These are also 
good to wash windows, as they are 
free from dust and lint. 

Or use a piece of whalebone or a 
skewer to clean out the corners of the 
sash. 

To Pplish Windows. — Polish win- 
dows with dry chamois or tissue paper 
or an old newspaper slightly mois- 
tened. 

Or apply with a moistened rag pow- 
dered indigo, pumice stone, or fuller's 
earth, and polish. 

Or fold a piece of cheese cloth and 
put a quantity of pulverized pumice 
stone between the folds, stitching 
around the edge to keep the powder 
from spilling. Polish chimneys and 
window panes with this prepared cloth. 
It gives a high polish instantly, and 
will last a long time. 

Or with a soft cloth rub a little 
vinegar on the glass. Rub dry and 
polish. 

To Prevent Windows from Steam- 
ing. — After cleaning the glass, rub 
over it a rag slightly moistened with 
glycerin. 

Windows — To Keep Out the Sun. — 
Make a paste of powdered gum traga- 



286 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



canth and white of egg. Beat with an 
egg beater and let it stand twenty- 
four hours. Apply with a soft brush 
and let dry. 

To Clean Mirrors. — Mix a little 
powdered bluing, whiting, or pumice 
stone with alcohol to form a thin 
paste. Smear the surface of the mir- 
ror with this by means of a small 
sponge or soft rag, and before the al- 
cohol evaporates rub it dry with a 
clean cloth. Afterwards polish with 
silk, chamois, or tissue paper. 

Or wring a cloth or chamois out of 
clear water, dip in dry whiting, and 
apply. Rub with a dry cloth or cham- 
ois and polish. 

Or apply whiting mixed with tea to 
form a thin paste. Use clear tea to 
remove stains. 

Or wring a newspaper as you would 
a cloth out of cold water, so that it 
will be damp but not wet. Rub the 
glass with this, and afterwards dry 
with a fresh newspaper softened by 
crumpling it in the hands. 

To Polish Mirrors. — Use a dry 
chamois or pumice bag, or a silk hand- 
kerchief, or tissue paper, or apply 
powdered chalk or whiting with any 
of these. Or use a dry cloth slightly 
moistened with a few drops of aqua 
ammonia. 

To Support Window Sashes. — To 
support window sashes not provided 
with sash lines and pulleys, obtain a 
nmhber of ordinary bottle corks and 
a bit or an auger of the same size. 
Bore three or four holes in the side 
of the sash and insert a piece of cork 
in each of these, letting it project 
just enough to rub against the groove 
of the window frame. The elasticity 
of the corks will admit of the window 
being raised, but the pressure wiQ be 
sufficient to support the sash at any 
desired height. Renew the corks as 
often as necessary. 

To Lubricate Window Sashes. — To 
lubricate a window sash that rubs or 
swells in damp weather so that it can- 
not be raised and lowered readily, 
slush freely with common yellow soap 
the edge of the sash and the groove in 
which it runs. This may be done by 



moistening the soap and rubbing it 
over the parts, or by dissolving the 
soap in its own bulk of water, and 
applying the soap jeUy with a brush. 

Or use a wax candle instead of 
soap. 

To Prevent Window "Sashes from 
Rattling. — A half of a clothespin will 
cure temporarily the rattling of a 
window sash. 

To Restore Window Glass. — ^To re- 
store the transparency of window 
glass that has become dingy by ex- 
posure to the elements, rub with di- 
lute muriatic acid, 1 part of acid to 
10 parts of water, and polish with a 
moist cloth dipped in whiting. 

To Keep Doors Open. — Cover a com- 
mon red brick with cretonne, carpet, 
or any suitable material to match 
the floor covering, and have a number 
of these weights about the house to 
place against the doors and keep them 
open. 

To Prevent Doors from Creaking. 
— Dip a feather in oil and apply to 
the hinges. 

Or rub on a piece of soap. 

Or mix equal parts of soap, lard, 
and black lead, and apply with the 
point of a lead pencil or in melted 
form by means of a small brush. 

Burglar-proof Lock. — Lock the 
door, leave the key in the lock, and 
keep it there by means of a heavy 
copper wire 11 inches long bent in 
the shape of a hairpin. Put this over 
the spindle back of the knob, with 
the ends down through the head of the 
key. The key cannot then be pushed 
out or turned by a burglar's tool or 
another key inserted from the out- 
side. This is a convenient device for 
a traveler to use in hotels, where du- 
plicate keys are often issued to ser- 
vants and others. 

Or one end of the wire may be fas- 
tened to the casement by means of a 
staple, and the other end formed into 
a hook to hold the key in position. 

Or an ordinary hook may be used 
for this purpose. 

Skeleton Key. — Obtain from a lock- 
smith a skeleton key similar to the 
keys used by burglars and furnished 



HOUSE CLEANING 



287 



to employees of hotels whose duties 
require them to have admission to all 
the rooms. This will be exceedingly 
convenient when other keys are lost 
or mislaid. 

To Tit Keys.-^To fit an old key or 
a blank to replace a key that has been 
lost, hold the key to be fitted in the 
flame of a candle imtU it is thorough- 
ly blackened, insert it carefully in the 
lock, and turn it until it strikes the 
wards. Withdraw the key and file 
away the parts where the soot has 
been rubbed off by the wards. 

CLEAirarG AND CAEE OF FTJEHITUEE 

To Clean rnrniture. — Furniture, 
like other woodwork, tends to shrink 
if it becomes too dry, and should be 
washed for the sake of moisture as 
well as for the sake of cleanliness. 
Hence furniture, besides being cleaned, 
when necessary, with suitable cleans- 
ing compounds, should be sponged oc- 
casionally with clear water and vnped 
dry. « 

But do not use soap or washing 
powders on painted or varnished fur- 
niture. Remove dirt, dust, and stains 
with other cleansing agents, and rinse 
by sponging with clear water. Wipe 
dry, oil, and polish. Detergents recom- 
mended for cleaning, furniture, re- 
moving finger marks, white spots, and 
stains are olive, sweet, linseed, paraf- 
fin, and otlier oils; whiting, fuller's 
earth, cold tea, kerosene, turpentine, 
soda, essence of peppermint, camphor, 
asphaltum, vinegar, various acids, and 
combinations of these. 

To Wash Furniture. — To wash fur- 
niture, use a large sponge, wipe dry, 
and polish dry as possible with a 
chamois skin wrung out of clear water, 
or with a soft flannel cloth. Do not 
use dry chamois on varnished wood 
or polished surfaces. Wipe always in 
one direction, preferably with the grain 
of the wood. 

Wash carved wood with a stiff hair 
paint brush dipped in clear water. 

Or wash with cold tea applied vidth 
a sponge or brush, wipe dry, oil, and 
polish. 



Care of Furniture. — To keep pol- 
ished or varnished furniture in good 
order, each article should be gone 
over lightly once a week on cleaning 
day with clear hot (not boiling) water 
without soap, or with cold tea, or any 
other suitable cleanser. 

Or, if there is not time for this, af- 
ter dusting the furniture, rub it over 
with a cloth moistened with kerosene, 
turpentine, cold tea, or cold-drawn 
linseed oil, or with a mixture of equal 
parts of these. This practice will as- 
sist in keeping it in good order. 

To Kemove Finger Marks. — Mois- 
ten a flannel cloth in olive, linseed, 
sweet, or paraffin oU to remove the 
spots. Wipe dry, and polish with flan- 
nel or a chamois skin wrung out of 
clear water. For oiled furniture use 
kerosene. 

To Remove White Marks. — To re- 
move white marks on furniture caused 
by heat or water, hold a hot iron near 
them, but not near enough to burn or 
scorch. 

Or rub with a cloth moistened with 
kerosene. 

Or with a cloth apply equal parts 
of linseed oil and alcohol. 

Or, if the stain is obstinate, cover 
with baking soda and hold a. hot iron 
close to the spot, taking care not to 
scorch or burn the wood. Repeat if 
necessary. 

Or apply olive oil or sweet oil, and 
polish with 9 cloth moistened in al- 
cohol. 

Or apply essence of peppermint 
with a cloth. Wipe dry and polish. 

Or use a mixture composed of equal 
parts of vinegar, sweet oil, and tur- 
pentine. 

Or rub with a cloth wet in spirits 
of camphor or camphorated oil or 
turpentine. 

Or use a cloth saturated with any 
of these. 

After using any of the above, wipe 
the spot dry, apply furniture oil, and 
polish with damp chamois or silk or 
linen cloth. Do not allow alcohol, 
turpentine, camphor, or similar de- 
tergents to remain on a polished sur- 
face. 



288 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To Bemove Ink Stains. — To remove 
Ink stains, first test the ink by ap- 
plying water to see if it contains coal- 
tar products, as eosin or nigrosine. 
If these are present the ink when wet 
will run. In that case use an alkali, 
as baking soda mixed with water to 
form a paste, and let it dry on. Re- 
peat if necessary. 

Or, if water does not cause the ink 
to run, it is probably an iron-gall or 
logwood ink; hence apply an acid, 
preferably oxalic acid, dissolved in 
an equal quantity of water. Saturate 
a cloth with the solution and lay it on 
the spot to soften the ink. Then -wash 
with the solution until the ink disap- 
pears. 

Or apply salts of lemon. 

Or a mixture of 6 parts of spirits 
of salt (diluted hydrochloric acid) 
and 1 part of salts of lemon. 

Or use 1 part of nitric, muriatic, 
or sulphuric acid diluted with 10 parts 
of water. Apply by dipping a cork 
in the mixture and touching the stain, 
or by means of a feather. 

But remember that all of these acids 
are poisotious, and that all except ox- 
alic acid will burn or blister the skin. 
Also, if used in too great strength, 
they will remove paint and varnish 
and themselves stain the surfaces they 
are applied to. Hence use no more 
acid than is necessary and immedi- 
ately sponge off with clear water con- 
taining a little ammonia, wipe dry, 
oil, and polish. 

To Remove Braises from Turniture. 
— To renovate furniture that has been 
bruised or scratched without injuring 
the fiber of the wood, apply moisture 
and heat. Wet a cloth in warm water, 
not hot, and lay it over the parts. 
Hold near a hot iron, but not near 
enough to scorch or char the wood. 
Repeat until the bruise comes up. If 
the varnish is discolored, apply any 
of the above remedies. 

Or use, instead of cloth, several 
thicknesses of brown paper moistened 
in water. 

Or, if the bruise is small, omit the 
cloth or paper. Wet the spot and 
hold near it a hot iron. Then lay over 



the scratched or bruised surface a 
cloth dipped in linseed oil. Finally 
rub with a mixture of equal parts of 
turpentine and linseed oil, and polish. 
Oils for Wood Furniture. — Furni- 
ture polish containing oil or wax will 
not be needed if the- wood is washed 
occasionally with clear warm water, 
not hot, without soap, and rubbed 
dry with chamois or a soft cloth. 
But if furniture polish containing 




Oil Musi Be Rubbed In." 



fixed oils is used the furniture must 
be rubbed vigorously and kept in 
condition by daily rubbing to pre- 
vent oU accumulating so as to be felt 
or seen. Furniture oil should be 
sparingly used and the wood rubbed 
to a high polish or imtil it does not 
have any greasy feel. 

Soap for Furniture. — Soap should 
not be used on wood finished with 
shellac or varnish or treated with 
furniture wax or oU. Soap has the 
property of destroying oily and resi- 
nous substances, and thus tends to 
eat away the coating, destroy the 
polish, and expose the wood. 

To Remove Furniture Scratches. 
— Go over the articles with a soft 
rag dampened in kerosene oil. This 
will cause all light scratches or sur- 
face bruises to disappear. 

Or, if the scratches or cracks are 
deep, melt a little beeswax, and thin 



HOUSE CLEANING 



289 



out with turpentine to the consist- 
ency of sirup. Apply with a soft 
cloth, and polish with flannel or vel- 
veteen. 

To Bestore the Color of Furniture. 
— Apply raw linseed oil by means of 
a flannel cloth to restore the color, 
and let stand over night. 

Or, for highly polished surfaces, 
as rosewood or mahogany, apply a 
cloth moistened with alcohol. After- 
wards polish with a soft cloth mois- 
tened with turpentine. 

Linseed Oil for Turniture. — Ap- 
ply raw linseed oil as a restorer, with 
or without an equal quantity of tur- 
pentine. 

Care of Piano. — The back of the 
piano should be protected by a dust 
cloth of denim or other suitable ma- 
terial tacked or pasted lightly to the 
frame. In moist climate the wires 
wiU be protected from rust by 
sprinkling them with unslaked lime. 
The keys should be wiped with al- 
cohol once a week on cleaning day 
to prevent them from yellowing, and 
the varnish may be kept in good con- 
dition by wiping once a week with 
a chamois wrung out of cold or warm 
water, or by wiping with a cloth 
moistened with turpentine, kerosene, 
or cold-dravni linseed oil, or a mix- 
ture of these. 

To Clean Pianos. — A careful in- 
quiry by a dealer in pianos from the 
largest factories in the United States 
discloses the fact that there is no 
better means of cleaning a polished 
piano or any other highly polished 
furniture than to simply wash it in 
lukewarm water, drying each part 
perfectly by rubbing briskly as fast 
as it is washed. This method is as 
safe as it is simple. It leaves the 
polish absolutely uninjured. 

To Clean Piano Keys. — Remove 
stains with oxalic acid and keep the 
keys white by rubbing with a soft 
piece of cloth wet with alcohol or 
with cologne water. Expose the keys 
to sunshine on bright, sunny days to 
bleach them. 

Cleaner for Husical Instruments. 
— To clean guitars, violins, etc., mix 



equal quantities of linseed oil, tur- 
pentine, and water. Shake well be- 
fore using to form an emulsion or 
cream. Rub the instrument with a 
cloth dampened in this cream, wipe 
dry, and polish with woolen cloth, 
chamois, or velveteen. 

To Clean Cane Chairs and Wicker, 
Bamboo, and Rattan Furniture. — 
First blow the dust out of the crev- 
ices with a pair of bellows or a good- 
sized bellows or bicycle pump. This 
will greatly assist in cleaning. Make 
a suds by dissolving half a bar of 
white soap in a gallon or more of 
water and add half a cupful of com- 
mon salt. This will prevent the cane 
from turning yellow. Apply the suds 
to the chair with a scrubbing brush, 
first one side and then the other, 
using plenty of water so that the cane 
may be thoroughly soaked. Place it 
out of doors to dry in a shady place. 
This will make the cane firm and 
tight and renew its elasticity. 

To Bleach Willow Furniture. — 
To bleach willow furniture, make a 
suds as above and add 3 ounces of 
bleaching powder. 

To Renovate Cane Chairs. — When 
the cane bottoms of chairs wear out, 
buy new cane and learn to weave 
cane seats. This is a simple art 
which may be easily learned by any- 
one, experimenting with the cane of 
an old chair and by a little practice. 

CLEANIITG PICTURE FRAMES 

To Protect Gilt Picture Frames. — 
Brush gilt frames with water in 
which onions have been boiled — three 
or four to a pint. Also wash the 
glass with it. Onion water will not 
injure the frames, and will prevent 
flies from lighting upon the picture. 

Or, after dusting, go over the 
frames lightly with a soft flannel 
cloth moistened in kerosene. 

Or give them a coat of clear 
parchment size. This will prevent 
the dirt from darkening the gilt. 
The size may be sponged with cold 
water or oil of turpentine, and left 
to dry without wiping. 



290 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or give the frames when new a 
coat of white varnish. This may be 
washed with clear cold water. 

Or wash soiled gilt frames with a 
gill of vinegar dissolved in a pint of 
cold water and applied with a soft 
brush. 

Or stir into a quart of water 
enough powdered sulphur to give it 
a slightly yellow tinge, and in this 
water boil four or five sliced onions. 
Strain and apply with a soft brush 
to soiled gUt frames. 

Or to 3 ounces of white of egg add 
1 ounce of chloride of potassium 
or soda and beat up together. Dust 
the frame with a, soft brush, and 
brush over them with the above mix- 
ture. 

Or apply well-beaten white of egg 
with a camel's-hair brush and wipe 
off with a soft flannel cloth. But 
rub with the cloth very little and 
very lightly. 

Or wash with alcohol or spirits of 
turpentine, using a soft sponge, and 
let dry without wiping. 

All picture frames should be 
treated with one of the above prepa- 
rations several times during the 
spring and summer. 

Or cover the frames with oiled 
tarlatan, which may be obtained 
ready oiled for this purpose. 

Or brush boiled linseed oil over 
ordinary tarlatan. This is excel- 
lent for keeping dust from books, 
bric-a-brac, and various other ob- 
jects. 

Apply alcohol to fly spots and 
other stains with a camel's-hair 
brush to soften them, and wipe off 
the frame with a, soft chamois or 
flannel cloth. Do not use linen for 
this purpose, as it deadens the 
brightness of the gilding. 

To Kenovate Gilt Frames. — ^Apply 
gilt paint with a camel's-hair brush 
to spots where the gilding has come 
off 80 as to expose the wood. 

Or if the bit of gilding that has 
come off can be found and is large 
enough, moisten the spot with glue 
and replace it, bringing it up to a, 
level by means of putty if necessary. 



Let dry and go over it with gold 
paint. 

To Clean Gilt Ornaments. — ^Make 
a strong solution of cyanide of po- 
tassium. But remember that this is 
a deadly poison. Apply with a stiff 
brush, or dip the articles in this 
solution. Afterwards rinse with wa- 
ter, using a soft brush, and dry in 
boxwood or other hard-wood shav- 
ings. These may be obtained of any 
jeweler. Store away gilt articles in 
boxwood shavings to keep them from 
tarnishing. 

Or clean them with a lather of 
soft white soap, rinsing with clear 
water. 

To Clean Silver Ornaments. — ^Make 
a suds by dissolving hard white soap 
in boiling water, inmierse the arti- 
cles, and boil for five minutes. Re- 
move and scrub gently with a soft 
brush, rinse in clear boiling water, 
and wipe dry with a soft cloth. Lay 
them near the fire until the moisture 
has perfectly evaporated, or cover 
them -with boxwood sawdust until 
fully dried. 

To Preserve Oil Paintings. — Ap- 
ply two or three coats of pure white- 
lead paint to the back of the can- 
vas. This preserves the canvas from 
damp, mold, and mildew, and makes 
it practically indestructible. Many 
ancient canvases treated in this way 
have been preserved for centuries. 
The same process will strengthen a 
decaying canvas. 

To Clean Oil Paintings. — To clean 
an oU painting, wash the surface 
gently with clear warm water, using 
a soft cloth or fine sponge, let dry, 
and rub gently with a soft flannel 
cloth moistened with pure olive oil. 
The water softens the accumulated 
smoke, dust, and dirt, and the oil 
assists in wiping it away. 

Or wash with mUk diluted with 
warm water, and dry without rins- 
ing. 

Or cut a potato in half and rub 
gently with the fresh surface, slicing 
off the soiled portions, until the 
whole is cleansed. 

The practice of covering the sur- 



HOUSE CLEANING 



291 



race of paintings with soft soap or 
other alkaline lyes is a very mischiev- 
ous one. If the paintings are of any 
value, they should be cleaned only by 
an expert. 

To Clean Prints. — Fasten the print 
to a board by means of thumb' tacks, 
cover with fine common salt, and 
moisten the salt slightly with lemon 
juice. Turn the board at an angle 
and pour boiling water over the sur- 
face until the salt and lemon juice 
are washed off. Dry gradually in 
the shade. 

Or, to remove yellow stains from 
engravings, dissolve hydrochloride of 
soda in water. Moisten a cloth with 
this solution and lay over the stain 
until it is removed. Rinse with clear 
water. 

To Bestore White in Oil Paint- 
ings. — To renovate old oil paintings 
in which the whites have become 
dark by the action of the air on 
paints containing carbonate of lead 
or other lead compounds, apply, by 
means of a soft brush, water charged 
with four or five volumes of oxygen. 
Afterwards let dry and go over the 
painting with copal varnish. 

To Slend Gilt Prames. — To replace 
on gUt frames ornaments that have 
been broken off and lost, melt to- 
gether with gentle heat 1 pound of 
rosin, J pint of linseed oU, and J 
gill of Venetian turpentine. Dissolve 
separately J pound of glue in 3 
quarts of water and mix the two 
solutions. Boil and stir constantly 
until the water is evaporated, leav- 
ing a thick mass, to which add pow- 
dered whiting until the whole is of 
the consistency of putty. Mold to 
the desired shape while warm, and 
when cold it will set and harden. 
Color with gUt paint. 

To Clean Wood Prames. — First 
dust with a, soft brush, and after- 
wards wipe with flannel dipped in 
sweet oil. 

To Kenovate Old Gilt Prames. — 
GUt frames that are past retouching 
with gilt paint may be renovated by 
renioving the gilding with fine sand- 
paper or rubbing down the surface 



with a moistened cloth dipped in 
powdered pumice or rotten stone. 
Paint with black or other color of 
enamel paint or any desired stain, 
and afterwards apply a coat of co- 
pal or any hard white varnish. 

CLEANING BBIC-A-BBAC AND HIS- 
CELLANEOTJS OBJECTS 

To Clean Brass Purniture. — Brass 
bedsteads and brass fittings on fur- 
niture may be cleaned by moistening 
a cloth in sweet oil and dipping it 
in powdered whiting or rotten stone 
pulverized finely and sifted through 
cheese cloth. 

Or mix finely powdered tripoli with 
linseed oil. Apply with a sponge or 
rag, and polish with a piece of felt or 
velveteen. 

Or moisten a cloth in ammonia 
and dip in powdered whiting. 

To Clean Brass Inlaid Work. — 
Mix equal quantities of rotten stone, 
starch, and oxalic acid with water 
to a stiff paste and dilute with sweet 
oU. Apply with a piece of felt or 
velveteen, and polish with a flannel 
rag or moistened chamois. 

To Clean Bric-a-Brac. — Brass or- 
naments on bric-a-brac may be 
cleaned with a piece of stale bread. 
Hold the bread by the crust and rub 
carefully, allowing the crumbs to 
fall with the dirt. Brass candle- 
sticks, lamps, and the like may be 
cleaned with soap and water,, but 
lacquered articles require careful 
treatment without soap. 

To Clean Bronzes. — Genuine 
bronzes may be washed with good 
soapsuds and a sponge or rag, and 
wiped dry with a soft flannel cloth 
or chamois. 

Or dirt and stains may first be 
removed with a flannel cloth mois- 
tened in sweet oil; afterwards pol- 
ish with 'flannel or chamois. 

To Clean Mother-of-Pearl. — Rub 
with a cheese-cloth bag containing 
dry pumice, or apply finely pow- 
dered pimiice moistened with sweet 
oil, and polish with a piece of felt 
or velveteen. 



292 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To Clean Upholstered Furniture. 
— In cities the pneumatic cleaning 
machine removes all dust and dirt 
from upholstered furniture with lit- 
tle labor, but where this is not avail- 
able take the furniture out of doors 
and freely apply gasoline or naph- 
tha. Pour these on so as to saturate 
the upholstered parts, and rub vigor- 
ously with a soft hair brush, sponge, 
or flannel cloth dipped in warm 
gasoline until all spots and soiled 
places are fully cleaned. Keep the 
furniture out of doors in a draught 
until the cleanser evaporates. This 
process will also destroy moths. 

To Clean Brick or Stone Work. — 
Mop with a solution of caustic potash 
or soda with oxalic acid dissolved in 
water. Or pour the mixture over the 
surfaces and scrub with a scrubbing 
brush, but do not dip the hands in 
this mixture and do not use it too 
strong. 

To Clean Ivory. — For cleaning 
ivory, use prepared chalk, lime, brick 
dust, turpentine, lemon juice, salt and 
vinegar, lime, potash, and alum. 

Ivory ornaments, brooches, card 
cases, bracelets, carvings, piano keys, 
and the like may be cleaned by 
painting them over with spirits of 
turpentine and, when possible, ex- 
posing them for two or three days 
to sunshine. Or articles that can be 
taken out of doors may be bleached 
by simply moistening them with wa- 
ter and exposing th»n to direct sun- 
shine. 

Or dissolve slaked lime in water 
to the consistency of milk. Cover 
the articles with this, or dip them in 
it if convenient, and steep as long 
as may be necessary. Remove them, 
allow the slaked lime to dry on, and 
when dry rub off and polish with a 
dry cloth. 

Or apply salt and lemon juice. 
Polish with whiting. Apply with a 
moist cloth and rub with a chamois. 

If small ivory articles are badly 
stained and discolored, first soak 
them for 24 hours or longer in a 
solution of 1 part of baking soda 
to i parts of water. Rinse, and 



immerse in a solution of 1 part of 
stilphite of soda to 3 parts of wa- 
ter for another day or 2. Finally 
add to the latter solution 1 ounce of 
hydrochloric acid diluted with 6 
ounces of water, and allow the arti- 
cles to stand in this for 2 or 3 
days. Wash in clean water, dry, and 
polish. 

To Glean Bric-a-Brac. — For deep, 
narrow-necked flower vases, rose 
bowls, or carafes, cut some potato 
parings in small squares and pour 
over them water in which baking 
soda has been dissolved. Put them 
into the glasses to be cleaned, let 
stand a few minutes, and shake well. 
Afterwards wash in soapsuds and 
polish. 

Or use 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 
to 1 of rice. Shake well. 

To polish, use fuller's earth finely 
powdered or whiting. Never use hot 
water for these articles. Allow the 
water to cool imtil it wiU bear the 
hands comfortably. 

To Clean a Chandelier. — Apply 
pure vinegar with a small sponge; 
afterwards wash in soapsuds and 
polish with flannel or chamois. 

To renovate tarnished metallic 
parts, paint black with the dull-black 
paint used for ebonizing. Or apply 
white, gilt, or any other enamel paint 
desired. 

Glass Stoppers. — The glass stop- 
pers of decanters or carafes and oth- 
er bottles sometimes stick and are 
very difficult to remove. To obviate 
this, use a large glass marble, either 
of clear glass or containing fancy 
figures. This makes a good stopper 
for a decanter or water bottle and is 
easily removed. 

To remove a stopper that sticks, 
first apply a few drops of sweet oil 
or salad oil to the neck of the stop- 
per, and let stand a few minutes to 
soak in between the stopper and the 
neck of the bottle. 

If this does not loosen the stopper, 
apply heat to the neck of the bottle 
on the outside. It is well known that 
heat expands all substances, and, if 
applied to the outside, the neck of 



HOUSE CLEANING 



293 



the bottle will expand before the 
stopper does, and the stopper will 
become loosened. This may be done 
by putting a narrow strip of flannel 
about the neck of the bottle and 
drawing it back and forth rapidly 
to create friction. This will some- 
times cause heat enough in a few 
minutes. 

Or hold the hand about the neck 
of the bottle until the heat of the 
hand causes it to expand. 

Or, if this is not sufBcient, dip a 
rag in water as hot as the hands will 
bear and wrap it about the neck of 
the bottle. This must not be done, 
however, when the bottle is very 
cold, as it may be cracked by ex- 
panding too suddenly. 

Or hold the neck of the bottle 
near a gas jet or an open flame, 
turning it constantly to prevent any 
part from becoming overheated. 

Or wrap a piece of cloth about the 
stopper and with a light piece of 
wood tap it gently, first on one side, 
then on the other. Do not use a 
hammer or other metal tool or uten- 
sil for this purpose. 

To Glean Clocks. — To clean a 
clock, saturate a cloth or pad of 
cotton with kerosene oil and lay it 
inside on a small dish that will pre- 
vent the woodwork from being satu- 
rated. As it evaporates, the fumes 
will loosen any foreign substance on 
the wheels of the clock and cause it 
to drop. Repeat as often as neces- 
sary. The fumes also tend to lubri- 
cate the works. 

Or remove the works of alarm 
clocks and others which are made 
exclusively of metal, and place them 
in an earthenware jar or other clean 
vessel having a tight-fitting cover. 
Pour over them kerosene oU through 
a cloth strainer or filter paper to 
remove all sediment. Let stand un- 
til the grease and dirt have been en- 
tirely cut and removed. The clock 
may be returned to its case without 
waiting for the excess of oil to evap- 
orate. 

To Oil Clocks. — ^To oil a clock, ob- 
tain the purest olive oil and cleanse 



it by adding half a pint of lime wa- 
ter to each quart of oil. Shake well 
and let stand three or four days, 
when the pure oil may be carefully 
poured off the sediment and strained 
through silk or filter paper. 

To Glean Metals. — Variotis acids 
are recommended for cleaning metals, 
as tartaric, oxalic, acetic, muriatic, 
and the like; also alcohol, turpentine, 
and petroleiun products, and such 
materials as whiting, powdered pum- 
ice, rotten stone, bath brick, etc., 
mixed with water or oil. 

Paste for Uetals. — ^Mix 1 ounce of 
oxalic acid with 6 ounces of rotten 
stone, and dilute to a soft paste with 
equal parts of train oil and spirits of 
turpentine. 

Or mix strong potash or soda lye 
with alcohol and apply to metals with 
a brush. Let dry, and polish with a 
soft cloth or moist chamois. This will 
remove verdigris and most other forms 
of rust or tarnish. 

Brass — To Prevent Tarnishing. — 
Moisten powdered sal ammoniac with 
water and apply to the brass by means 
of a brush. Afterwards heat the ar- 
ticle until the sal ammoniac is melt- 
ed. Cool, and polish with dry whiting 
and soft cloth. 

To Glean Brass. — Dissolve J ounce 
of oxalic acid in 1 pint of soft water 
and wash the brass, or moisten a cloth 
in sweet oil dipped in powdered whit- 
ing or rotten stone, and scour. 

Or mix to a soft paste 1 ounce of 
starch, 13 ounces of rotten stone, 2 
ounces of sweet oil, and 3 ounces of 
oxalic acid with water, and apply with 
a cloth or chamois. 

Or, to clean brass inlaid work, mix 
tripoli with linseed oil, and apply by 
means of a piece of folded velveteen 
or other suitable polisher. Or use a 
good furniture paste. But if the wood 
has a very high polish, finish the 
cleaning by rubbing on dry starch 
with the palm of the hand. 

Or mix 2 ounces of sulphuric acid, 
IJ ounces of nitric acid, 1 dram of 
saltpeter, and 3 ounces of rain water, 
and let stand until the solution set- 
tles. Dip the articles in this, or go 



294 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



over them with a soft brush dipped 
in this mixture, rinse immediately with 
soft water, and wipe dry. Or dry 
in sawdust. To prevent future tar- 
nishing, apply a good coat of brass 
lacquer. 

To Clean Bronze. — To clean genu- 
ine bronze, apply hot soapsuds or boil 
the article in suds. Rinse and wipe 
dry with a soft cloth or chamois 
skin. 

Or, for small articles, apply sweet 
oil with a brush and rub off with a 
flannel cloth. 

Polish with dry whiting and cham- 
ois skin. 

To Clean Nickel. — Mix equal quan- 
tities of alcohol and aqua ammonia 
and stir in whiting to the consistency 
of thin cream. Apply with a brush 
and soft cloth, let dry, and polish with 
a clean, dry cloth or chamois skin. 

Or, to remove stains from nickel, 
dilute 1 part of sulphuric acid in SO 
parts of alcohol, and dip the articles 
in the solution until the stains are re- 
moved, which should take not more 
than 5 or 10 seconds. Rinse in al- 
cohol and afterwards in clear water, 
and polish with dry whiting and cham- 
ois. Repeat if necessary. 

To Clean Gilt Metals. — ^Metals fin- 
ished in gUt or lacquer should not be 
washed with strong soaps containing 
free alkali, but preferably with clear, 
soft warm water and a fine sponge. 

Or a little castile soap or other fine 
white soap may be used if necessary. 

Clean out the crevices in the orna- 
mental parts with a soft brush, as an 
old toothbrush, but use no more force 
than is necessary to avoid injuring 
the gilding. Wipe dry with chamois 
or a piece of soft woolen cloth or 
silk. 

Bronzed articles, not genuine bronze, 
require only dusting or wiping with 
a soft cloth. Washing will injure the 
bronzing. 

Burnishing Powder. — To make a 
high polish for metals, mix 4 ounces 
of prepared chalk, IJ ounces of pipe 
clay, 1 ounce of white lead, J ounce of 
carbonate of magnesia, and J ounce of 
jeweler's rouge. 



TO CLEAir UABBLE, BBICE. AND 
STOITE 

To Clean Uarble. — To clean marble 
mantels, table tops, tops of bureaus, 
washstands, and other polished marble 
surfaces, wipe them with a cloth mois- 
tened in kerosene. 

Or mix 3 ounces of common soda, 1 
ounce of pumice stone, and 1 ounce of 
fine common salt, and dilute with 
water to the consistency of cream. 
Pour this mixture over the marble and 
let stand until all stains are removed. 
Afterwards wash the marble with salt 
and water, rinse, and wipe dry. 

Or mix soft soap and whiting to a 
thin paste, and apply to the marble 
by means of a soft brush. Let stand 
until fully dry, and wash off with 
lukewarm suds made of hard white 
or yellow soap. 

Or give the marble a coating of mu- 
cilage made by boiling to the con- 
sistency of thick cream 4 ounces of gum 
arable in 1 quart of water. Dilute 
with hot water if necessary. Apply 
with a brush and expose the article 
to the sun and air until the mucilage 
cracks and can be readily rubbed off, 
then wash with clear water and a soft 
cloth. Repeat if necessary. 

Or stir into 1 pint of soft soap 1 
teaspoonful of bluing and 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of whiting, and bring to a boil. 
Apply hot, let dry, and rinse off the 
clear water. 

Or make a paste of equal parts of 
whiting, soap, and sal soda with a 
small amount of bluing; apply with 
a piece of felt or velveteen and rinse 
with clear water. Wipe dry, and pol- 
ish with a flannel cloth or chamois. 

Or dissolve 1 pound of pipe clay in 
1 quart of boiling water. Add 1 quart 
of beer and a few drops of bluing. 
Bring to a boil and stir. Apply this 
freely with a cloth, wipe dry, and pol- 
ish. 

To Remove Iron Rust from Marble. 
— To remove iron stains from marble, 
dilute 1 part of oxalic acid with 10 
parts of alcohol, or 1 part of sul- 
phuric acid with 25 to SO parts of al- 
cohol; cover the spot and let stand 



HOUSE CLEANING 



295 



IS minutes to a half hour. Wash off 
with water containing aqua ammonia 
to stop the action of the acid. Re- 
peat if necessary. 

Or cover the spot thickly with salt 
and moisten with lemon juice. 

Or apply 1 part of nitric acid dilut- 
ed with 25 parts of water, and rinse 
with aqua ammonia. 

Or apply strong nitric acid direct 
to the stain by means of a small swab 
or cloth, or cotton on the end of a 
stick, and at once rinse off with aqua 
ammonia and water. Remember that 
the acid tends to eat and injure the 
marble if it is not immediately rinsed 
off; hence rinse well. If the surface 
of the marble is roughened by the 
acid, scour with a moist cloth dipped 
in rotten stone or powdered pumice. 

Or cover the spot with salts of lem- 
on, and add just enough water to dis- 
solve the crystals. 

Or mix equal quantities of salts of 
lemon and piunice stone, and rub the 
spot with a cloth dipped in this mix- 
ture. Continue until removed. 

To Clean Marble Steps. — To clean 
coarse marbles, as doorsteps, monu- 
ments, and the like, mix equal quan- 
tities of qtiicklime and potash lye and 
dilute with water to a thin cream. 
Apply with a brush, let stand twen- 
ty-four hours or more, and wash off 
with hot soapsuds. 

To Remove Stains from Harble. — 
Cut a lemon in half and rub with it, 
or apply a saturated solution of oxalic 
acid. 

Or make a paste of equal parts of 
whiting and sal soda dissolved in 
water. Cover the stains, and let stand 
for several hours. Afterwards wash 
off with soapsuds. 

To Kemove Oil Stains from Marble. 
— Apply common clay, starch, whit- 
ing, or prepared chalk, and saturate 
with gasoline or other petroleum 
product. Should these injure the pol- 
ish, scour with a moistened cloth 
dipped in pumice stone, and polish 
with whiting. 

Or mix with boiling water 2 ounces 
of soft soap, 3 ounces of caustic pot- 
ash, and 4 ounces of fuller's earth. 



Cover the spots thickly, and let stand 
for several hours. Rinse with clear 
water. 

To Polish Marble. — For poUshing 
marble, sandstone, sand and water, 
emery powder, putty powder, tripoli, 
and whiting are all recommended. 
But the coarser materials, such as 
sandstone and fine sand, should only 
be used on rough marble which has 
never been previously polished. Select 
material suitable to the condition of 
the marble, and follow with a finer 
one until the desired polish is ob- 
tained. 

To polish a rough marble slab, use 
first a level block of fine sandstone 
for working down. Cover the surface 
with water and rub with the sandstone 
in a circular motion, working outward 
from the center until the whole sur- 
face shows a uniform texture. Next 
tack a piece of felt to a smooth block 
of wood and use a finer quality of 
sand or glass powder with water. 
Follow this with a fresh piece of felt 
mounted on a level block of wood, 
using fine emery powder with water, 
and lastly use putty powder or tripoli 
with water and a chamois skin mount- 
ed on a block of wood. 

To Clean Brick and Stone Walks. 
— To remove the green fungous growth 
on brick or stone walks and walls ex- 
posed to moisture, pour over them 
boiling water in which potatoes or 
other vegetables have been cooked, pro- 
vided that it does not contain grease 
of any kind. Repeat if necessary. 

Or pour strong brine over the brick 
or stone, or scatter dry salt over it 
just before or after a rain. This will 
also kill any tufts of grass and weeds 
that come up between the bricks and 
stones, but care must be taken that it 
is not used in quantities sufficient to 
leach off into the soil and kill the ad- 
jacent grass of the lawn or the plants 
in flower beds. Hence use a small 
quantity of salt, and repeat if neces- 
sary. 

To Polish Stucco Work. — Let the 
stucco dry, then rub it down with a 
flat block of pumice stone. Follow 
with whiting and polish with tripoli, 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



using a piece of felt mounted on a 
block of wood. Wash down with 
soapsuds. 

To Polish Mother-of-Pearl. — Polish 
with finely sifted pumice stone, fol- 
lowed by putty powder or tripoli 
mixed with water and applied with a 
piece of felt. 

To Clean Alaliaster. — Remove stains 
from alabaster by covering the spot 
with whiting and water, or with white- 
wash, or with salt and lemon juice. 
Or apply equal quantities of quick- 
lime and soda made into a thin paste 
with water. Let stand until dry, then 
wipe off with a sponge or soft cloth 
and clear water. Repeat if necessary. 

Or, to remove obstinate stains, ap- 
ply a dilute solution of oxalic acid or 
spirits of salts, and rinse with aqua 
ammonia. 

Or wash with castUe soap and water. 
Cover with a coating of whiting mixed 
with water, let stand until dry, rinse 
with clear water, and polish. 

To Polish Alabaster. — To polish 
alabaster, marble, or any similar min- 
eral, first clean the articles, then take 
out scratches or other rough spots 
with finely powdered pumice stone or 
emery and water. Polish with putty 
po\vder and water by means of a piece 
of felt mounted on a block. 

To Polish Glass. — A scratched win- 
dow pane or a show-case top which 
has been roughened by use and par- 
tially lost its transparency may be 
polished by covering with a strong 
solution of potash lye applied by 
means of a brush. Let it dry, and 
polish with a moist cloth. Repeat if 
necessary. 

Or, if this is not effectual, polish 
with putty powder and water by means 
of a piece of felt. 

To Clean Papier-mache'. — Wash with 
clean cold water, using a sponge or 
soft cloth. WhUe still damp, cover 
it with dry flour and rub dry with a 
piece of woolen cloth or chamois. 

To Clean Gutta Percha. — Dissolve 
with gentle heat a little hard white 
soap in an equal bulk of water, and 
stir into the soap jelly thus made 
an equal bulk of powdered charcoal. 



Scour the article with this, and polish 
with a dry cloth and finely powdered 
charcoal. 

CLEANIITG KITCHEN STOVES AND 
OTHEB HETALS 

To Clean Stoves. — First examine the 
stove or range to see if any parts need 
replacing. Make a note of these, and 
obtain new ones from the manufactur- 
ers or some local merchant. Remove 




"See if Any Parts Are Needed." 

clinkers, clean the grate, fireplace, 
spaces under and over the oven, flues, 
etc. Dust off the top of the stove, 
and wash the outside with very hot 
water and soda applied with a stiff 
brush or a coarse cloth, or both. 

Suggestion's for removing rust and 
polishing nickel and other ornaments, 
and for blacking and polishing the 
stove and preventing rust when not in 
use, will be found elsewhere. 

To Hake a Hearth. — Prepare mor- 
tar by mixing sifted wood ashes vrith 
salt and water in the proportion of 
1 tablespoonful of salt to 1 gallon of 
ashes. Spread this over the hearth 
with a trowel, and tamp it down as 
hard as possible with the end of a log 
of wood, or otherwise. Level smooth- 
ly with the trowel. 

Make a hot fire in the fireplace or 



HOUSE CLEANING 



297 



grate. If the mortar cracks, add* 
more, tamping it into the cracks. This 
makes a hard, smooth white surface. 

Or mix 3 parts of unslaked lime 
and 1 part of smith's black dust with 
water, and treat as above. 

To Clean Grates. — Brush the dust 
^ from the grate with a stiff brush. 
Then mix 4 ounces of pure black lead 
with 1 pint of beer, add 2 ounces of 
hard white or yellow soap, bring all 
to a boil, and while hot apply this 
mixture with a paint brush. Allow it 
to cool, then polish with a hard brush 
or polishing mitten. 

Or, if the grate is much rusted, al- 
low the black lead to remain for a 
day or two. It wiU loosen the rust so 
that it can be scraped off. The grate 
may then be blacked and polished. 

Or first scrub the grate with soap 
and water and apply rotten stone 
moistened with sweet oil. Black and 
polish. 

To Black Grates. — Melt 2J pounds 
of asphaltum and add 1 pound of 
boiled oil. Remove from the fire, and 
when cool add 2 quarts of spirits of 
turpentine, stirring vigorously. Ap- 
ply with a brush. 

Or melt 6 J pounds of asphaltum; 
add 1 pound of litharge and 1 gallon 
of boiled oil. Boil untU the mixture 
falls in strings from the stirrer. To 
test, put a little on a glass plate. If 
on cooling it becomes quite hard, re- 
move the mixture from the fire, and 
when cold, thin to any desired con- 
sistency by adding 3 or more gallons 
of spirits of turpentine. 

To Prevent Bust. — Substances rec- 
ommended for preventing rust are 
various animal fats, as lard, suet, and 
tallow, and oils, as linseed oil, olive 
oil, vaseline, etc.; also black lead, 
paraffin, collodion, quicklime, gutta 
percha, varnish, pitch-tar paint, and 
• various mixtures of these. The ob- 
ject in all cases is to prevent contact 
of the metal with the oxygen of the 
air, especially where there is mois- 
ture. 

The formation of rust is a process 
of combustion similar to that which 
takes place in breathing and in the 



burning of fuel and other combusti- 
bles. The oxygen of the air uniting 
with iron forms a compoimd called 
ferrous oxide, which is iron rust. This 
action is very much hastened by mois- 
ture. Hence a coating of any oily, 
greasy, or sticky substance which will 
adhere to the metal without injuring 
it will prevent rust. Which of the 
following recipes is best will depend 
upon the article to be protected, and 
whether or not it is to be used or 
stored away. Such substances as col- 
lodion, paraffin, and black lead mixed 
with lard or other animal fat, boiled 
linseed oU, etc., can be used on small 
polished articles, as steel tools, skates, 
and the like. They can be readily re- 
moved, when necessary, by washing. 

Paraffin, collodion, boiled linseed oU, 
and copal varnish may be applied to 
tools and other articles which are in 
process of use, the excess being wiped 
off with a dry cloth. Pitch tar and 
paint can, of course, only be applied 
to coarser articles according to their 
several characters. 

Stoves — To Prevent Bust. — To pro- 
tect from rust stoves and stovepipes 
that are taken down in the spring and 
stored during the summer, apply kero- 
sene with a brush or cloth. The crude 
oil is better for this purpose than the 
refined. It costs less and does not 
evaporate so quickly. 

Or melt 3 parts of lard with 1 part 
of rosin, and apply with a brush while 
warm. 

Or apply linseed oil, or a mixture 
of equal parts of linseed oil and kero- 
sene. 

Or a mixture of 4 parts of linseed 
oil, 4 parts of kerosene, and 1 part of 
turpentine. 

Apply the above mixtures in a thin 
coat while slightly warm. 

To Protect Stovepipes from Bust. 
— Shake the dirt and soot out of the 
inside of the stovepipe, then insert an 
old broom and brush out as clean as 
possible. Paint the outside of the 
stovepipe with a coat of black paint, 
or apply any of the above rust-proof 
mixtures. 

Stovepipes rust on the inside as 



298 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



\ 



well as on the outside. Hold the pipe 
with an open end toward a good light, 
or reflect a light inside by means of a 
mirror. Affix a brush to a long han- 
dle and cover the inside of the pipe 




Reflect a Light Inside." 



as well as the outside with oil or other 
rust preventives. 

To Keep Nickel Pittings from Rust- 
ing. — Remove the nickel fittings from 
the stove, cover them with any of the 
above preventives, wrap them in thin 
cloths, and lay them away until 
wanted. 

Or cover them with unslaked lime. 

Or, if badly rusted, go over the 
nickel fittings with aluminum paint. 

To Prevent Rust. — To prevent rust 
on tin roofs and other exposed metal 
surfaces, bring to a boil 2 pounds of 
linseed-oil varnish. Stir into this a 
mixture of 3 ounces of black lead, 8 
ounces of sulphide of lead, and 2 
ounces of sulphide of zinc. Apply 
with a brush. 

Or paint exposed metal surfaces 
with a paint consisting of 30 parts of 
pure white lead, 8 parts of crude 
linseed oil, 3 parts of boiled linseed 
oil, and 1 part of spirits of turpen- 
tine. Apply two or more coats as 
needed. 

To Preserve Metals from Bust. — To 
preserve stoves, skates, sleigh runners, 
and other steel articles which are 
stored for a portion of the year, smear 
them with vaseline. 

Or paint them with lampblack mixed 



with equal quantities of boiled lin- 
seed oil and copal varnish. 

Or use powdered black lead and 
lard, melting the lard and. stirring in 
the lead, and add a small piece of 
gum camphor. Apply while warm 
with a brush. 

Or melt paraffin, and apply while 
warm with a brush, sponge, or cloth. 

Or clean thoroughly and dust over 
with unslaked lime. 

Or plunge small articles into un- 
slaked lime. 

Or dip the articles in boiled linseed 
oil and allow it to dry on them. 

Or apply a coat of copal varnish. 

Or melt S pounds of beef or mut- 
ton suet, 1 pound of gutta percha, and 
1 gallon of neat's-foot oil or rape oil 
until dissolved. Mix thoroughly and 
apply when cold. 

Or coat with collodion dissolved in 
alcohol. 

Or wrap in zinc foil or store in zinc- 
lined boxes. 

Or mix 1 ounce of oil varnish with 
4 ounces of rectified spirits of turpen- 
tine and apply with a sponge. 

Or heat the articles and dip them 
in train oil. 

To Prevent Bust on Tinware. — Rub 
new tinware with fresh lard, and heat 
in the oven before using. This tends 
to make it rust proof. 

To Preserve Nails, etc., from Bust. 
— ^To preserve from rust nails, screws, 
hinges, and other hardware that will 
be exposed to water, heat them (but 
not enough to injure the temper) in 
an iron skiUet over a fire and drop 
them into train oil. This will pre- 
serve them for many years. 

Or mix i pound of quicklime in 1 
quart of water and allow it to settle. 
Pour off the clear liquid and add to 
the lime sufficient olive oil to form a 
stiff paste. Apply with a brush to 
iron or steel articles to be stored. 

Or, for rough castings and fence 
wire, mix mineral pitch, coal tar, and 
sand in the proportion of 1 pound 
each of coal tar and sand to 20 pounds 
of mineral pitch. Immerse the articles 
in tjie mixture, remove them, and let 
them stand a day or more to harden. 



HOUSE CLEANING 



To Prevent Rust on Piano Wires.' 
— Sprinkle piano wires with unslaked 
lime. 

Steel Table Knives. — Fill a flower 
pot or other deep receptacle with 
quicklime and into it plunge the blades 
of the knives. Do not allow the lime 
to touch the handles. 

To Bemove Rust from Small Arti- 
cles. — Substances recommended for 
removing rust are muriatic acid, kero- 
sene, chloride of tin, and unslaked 
lime used with or without various 
abrasives, as sandpaper, emery paper, 
pxunice stone, powdered brick, and the 
like. 

First immerse the articles in a hot 
solution of sal soda or soapsuds to 
free them from oil or grease. 

Or dilute muriatic acid with twice 
its own bulk of water and immerse 
the articles from a few minutes to 
several hours, according to the amoimt 
of rust. Remove and apply soap and 
water with a scrubbing brush. Re- 
peat if necessary. Rinse, dry, and 
polish with oil and emery paper or 
other good abrasive. 

Or immerse the articles in kerosene 
oil for several hours, or as long as 
may be necessary. This loosens the 
rust so that it may be rubbed off with 
sandpaper or emery paper. 

But if the rust has etched deeply 
into the articles, they may have to be 
refinished. 

Or soften rust with sweet oil and 
rub with sandpaper. 

Or mix 3 parts of pumice stone with 
1 part of sulphur. Moisten with sweet 
oil and apply with chamois. 

Or use emery and oil. 

Or immerse the articles in a saturat- 
ed solution of chloride of tin over 
night, or as long as necessary. Rinse 
in clear water and polish with cham- 
ois. 

Or immerse tham in olive oil, and 
polish with whiting or slaked lime by 
moistening a cloth or chamois and 
dipping it into the dry powder. 

To Glean Zinc. — Substances recom- 
mended for ' cleaning zinc are kero- 
sene, soft soap, salt and vinegar, vine- 
gar and aliun, paraffin, coal ashes, 



sulphuric acid, turpentine, and vari- 
ous compounds of these. As zinc is 
not easily injured, these may all be 
used freely. Rub with a coarse cloth 
saturated with kerosene oil. 

Or heat 2 ounces of salt or 2 ounces 
of alum in 1 quart of vinegar and ap- 
ply hot. Wipe with a dry rag. 

Or dip a cotton cloth in melted 
paraffin and rub until the dirt is re- 
moved. Rinse with clean water and 
wipe dry. 

Or wet with cold vinegar, let stand 
for a few minutes, rinse, and wash. 

Or make a soap jelly by dissolving 
hard soap with twice its own bulk in 
water. Mix with sifted coal ashes to 
a stiff paste. Apply with a moist 
cloth. 

Or mix dilute sulphuric acid (1 part 
of acid to 10 parts of water) with 
glycerin. 

Or mix 1 pint of linseed oil with 
4 ounces of turpentine. 
Or polish with bath brick. 
To Glean Nickel. — Substances rec- 
ommended for cleaning nickel are 
kerosene, jeweler's rouge, whiting, 
powdered borax, and alum. When 
not much soiled, use jeweler's rouge 
and vaseline mixed to a thin paste. 
Apply with flannel and polish with 
chamois. 

Or dampen a rag and dip in pow- 
dered borax. Or, if the articles are 
small and movable, boU in alum and 
water. 

Or rub with a cloth dipped in kero- 
sene. 

To Clean Brass. — Substances recom- 
mended for cleaning brass are vine- 
gar and salt, lemon juice, citric acid, 
oxalic acid, rotten stone, turpentine, 
alum, ammonia, sulphuric, nitric, or 
muriatic acid, and various compounds 
of these. 

To clean brass kettles and other 
utensils, dissolve a tablespoonful of 
salt in a teacupful of vinegar and 
bring to a boil. Apply as hot as pos- 
sible to the brass with a scrubbing 
brush. 

Or apply a solution of oxalic acid 
with a scrubbing brush or cloth, using 
equal parts of oxalic acid and water. 



300 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or apply strong aqua ammonia with 
a scrubbing brush. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of alum in 1 
pint of strong lye and apply with a 
scrubbing brush. 

Or mix 6 ounces of rotten stone, 1 
ounce of oxalic acid, 1 ounce of sweet 
oil, and J ounce of gum arable, and 
dissolve to a thin paste with water. 
Apply with a cloth. 

Or use rotten stone moistened with 
sweet oil. Apply with a cloth mois- 
tened in turpentine. 

Or mix 1 ounce of bichromate of 
potash, 2 ounces of sulphuric acid, and 
3 ounces of pure water. Do not touch 
this with the hands, but apply with 
a mop. 

Or wet a cloth in water, dip in pow- 
dered sal anunoniac, and apply. 

Or mix 4 ounces of rotten stone, 1 
ounce of oxalic acid, and 1 ounce of 
sweet oil with turpentine to form a 
paste, and apply with a. brush mois- 
tened in water. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of alum in 1 
pint of strong potash or soda lye. 
Immerse the articles in this solution 
or apply hot with a scrubbing brush. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of alum in 8 
ounces of water and apply hot with a 
scrubbing brush. 

To Polish Brass. — After removing 
tarnish with any of the above cleans- 
ers, wash the article with warm soap- 
suds made of any good, hard white 
soap, dry with a cloth, and polish 
with dry chamois or any good silver 
polish, as whiting, or the like. Fin- 
ish by rubbing the articles with a cloth 
slightly moistened with vaseline. This 
will prevent tarnishing. 

Or coat with collodion dissolved in 
alcohol, or thin shellac applied by 
means of a camel's-hair brush, 

PACKING 

Packing — To Move. — Obtain 
plenty of barrels, and a relatively 
large number of small packing cases 
rather than a few large ones, a quan- 
tity of excelsior, burlap, and strong 
manila cord. Also a number of 
strong manila tags on which write, 



stamp, or print your name and the 
address to which the goods are to 
be shipped. Number these tags from 
1 upward. Pack, as far as possible, 
by themselves articles from each sep- 
arate room or part of the house, and 
note in a blank book the contents of 
each barrel, case, or package. For 
example, if numbers 1 to 5 are china, 
and numbers 5 to 10 are kitchen 
hardware, the packages can be de- 
livered to the appropriate part of 
the house and unpacked as required 
without confusion. 

To Pack China. — Pack china and 
other fragile articles, also small me- 
tallic objects, as lamps, kitchenware, 
bric-a-brac, etc., in barrels rather 
than packing cases. To pack such 
articles, first cover the bottom of 
the barrel with a layer 3 or 4 inches 




" Nest Dishes Together and Pack on Edge." 

deep of excelsior or fine hay slightly 
moistened. Wrap each article sepa- 
rately in newspaper or tissue paper. 
Select the larger and heavier pieces 
and lay a niraiber of them side by side 
2 or 3 inches apart. Stack plates and 
platters together, with just enough 
packing material between them to sep- 
arate them i of an inch or so, and 
stand them on edge. Nest together 
in the same way cups and saucers, 



HOUSE CLEANING 



301 



sauce dishies, and other articles of 
similar shape and size, putting a lit- 
tle packing between, but handling the 
entire nest in packing as one solid 
article. Take special care to protect 
handles and other protuberances so 
that no strain will be likely to come 
upon them. 

Surround these dishes with a layer 
of excelsior or hay 3 or 3 inches in 
thickness, crowding the packing ma- 
terial also between them, and finally 
cover them with a layer of equal 
thickness. On this lay a number of 
other articles of somewhat smaller 
size and less weight, surrounding, 
separating, and covering them with 
several inches of packing material, 
and pressing all so firmly together 
that they cannot be shaken out of 
place. Shake the barrel occasionally, 
and if any two pieces are not prop- 
erly separated by the packing mate- 
rial, the fact can be detected by the 
sound of their contact. 

Continue to add successive layers 
until the barrel is filled within 4 or 
S inches of the top. Fill in this 
space with packing material, heap it 
up, take off the top hoop, throw over 
the top a piece of burlap, replace 
the hoop, and tack It securely so as 
to hold the burlap in position. Fas- 
ten on the burlap near the top a tag 
containing your address on one side 
and on the other the words, " Fragile 
—This Side Up With Care." 

To Pack Cut Glass. — Cut glass and 
delicate bric-a-brac, lamp shades, 
and the like may be packed in the 
same manner as china, or carefully 
wrapped in cloth and packed in bar- 
rels surrounded with pillows, or 
placed in trunks containing clothing, 
or in clothes baskets surrounded by 
pillows and covered with burlap. 
Barrels and baskets crated and 
marked "Fragile" will be handled 
with much more care than wooden 
cases, the lids of which are nailed or 
screwed on. 

To Pack Pictures. — Pack small 
pictures face to face, with blankets 
or quilts or other folds of heavy 
cloth between, and lay them in bu- 



reau drawers, with thick layers of 
clothing above and below them. 

Or place two large pictures face 
to face separated by a quilt, tie 
them with strong cord, and surround 
the whole with a crate of rough 
boards. 

To Pack Ulrrors. — Place two mir- 
rors face to face, with several thick- 
nesses of cloth between, and crate 
them. 

To Pack Purniture. — Remove all 
movable parts from furniture, as the 
splasher racks from washstands, mir- 
rors from bureaus, and the like. Re- 
move the casters, tie together with 
stout cord those belonging to each 
article of furniture and attach them 
to some part of the article or drop 
them into a bureau drawer. Thus 
they can be found when wanted. 

Pack the drawers with clothing 
and put small pictures, platters, and 
similar breakable articles between. 
Surround the whole with burlap 
sewed together at the corners, and 
crate with rough boards. Wrap the 
legs of chairs, serving tables, etc., 
with manUa paper, newspapers, or 
cloth, and wind them with a stout 
cord secured so that it wUl not 
slip. 

To Pack Books. — To pack a large 
quantity of books, use either a suita- 
ble number of small packing cases 
or barrels rather than a few large 
packing cases. Books are very heavy, 
and large packing cases are liable 
to burst open by their weight. Bar- 
rels are stronger, and if properly 
packed perhaps better than packing 
cases. To prepare books for pack- 
ing, wrap up together, in packages 
of six or eight or more, those books 
that are most nearly of the same 
size. Have at least one thickness of 
paper between each binding and 
around the entire package. Tie the 
package together with a soft cord so 
that the books cannot rub against 
each other. To pack books in bar- 
rels, handle these packages the same 
as articles of china or bric-a-brac, 
surrounding them with excelsior, hay, 
straw, or other similar material, or 



302 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



with crumpled newspaper; except 
that not so much of the packing ma- 
terial need be used. The barrel may 
be headed up instead of covered 
with burlap, but care must be taken 
not to leave an inch of vacant space. 
Mark it " Books — Keep Dry." 

To pack books in small packing 
cases, stand the parcels on end, with 
the edges next to the sides of the 
cases and the back of the bindings 
pointed inward, and pack between 
crumpled newspapers to ease the 
pressure on the round part of the 
books, which may otherwise be pressed 
flat. Line the case with wrapping 
paper. Lay a thickness of wrapping 
paper over the top, and fasten on the 
cover with screws in preference to 
nails. Or, if nails are used, take 
care to see that they do not slip and 
injure the contents. 

Tools. — Pack in a hand satchel 
hammer, screw-driver, box opener, 
nails, tacks, and other necessary im- 
plements for unpacking and settling 
your goods, together with the book 
containing your inventory and list 
of packages. Then when the goods 
are unpacked, the movers can be di- 
rected to take each package to the 
proper room, and when any particu- 
lar article is needed it can be readily 
located and unpacked as required. 
Also, if any case is missing or in- 
jured, the exact contents will be 
known, and a sworn statement can 
be made out as the basis of a claim 
for damages. 

To Pack for Traveling. — To pack 
a trunk or satchel, first decide what 
to take with you. An old traveler 
describes his method of packing at 
short notice, without forgetting any 
necessary article, by saying that Ms 
method is " to commence with his 
feet and work up." The idea is to 
run over in mind the various articles 
of wearing apparel in that order. 
Thus, enumerate shoes, stockings, 
underwear, outer garments, linen, 
neckwear, etc. Determine what par- 
ticular articles and how many of 
each to select. Get these all together 
and check them up to see that 



nothing has been omitted. Add, of 
course, toilet articles, night gear, 
medicines, etc. Pack first the heavy 
things or those the last to be needed. 
Fold each garment and lay it 
smoothly in the trunk. Do not at- 
tempt to roll garments into tight 
bundles in order to economize space. 
Folded articles laid flat will pack 
more tightly. 

While packing, press down the con-^ 
tents occasionally to see that there 
are no lumps or other inequalities. 

To Pack Men's Coats. — Spread out 
the coat on a flat surface with the 
outside up. Fold the sleeves back at 
the elbows and draw them straight 
down at the sides. Turn back the 
front laps of the coat over the 
sleeves, pull the collar out straight, 
take up the coat at the sleeve holes, 
and fold it wrong side out length- 
wise. Thus the front flaps will be 
folded twice in. 

To Pack a Plaited Skirt. — Pin 
each plait in its place at the bottom 
of the skirt. Lay the skirt on a flat 
surface and fold to just fit the lar- 
gest part of the trunk or suit case. 
In other words, fold as little as pos- 
sible. 

To Pack Summer Gowns. — Remove 
the arm shields and fold the skirt in 
as few folds as possible. Fold the 
waist in the same fashion as a man's 
coat, stuff the sleeves and bust with 
tissue paper, put paper under ruffles, 
and surround the whole with tissue 
paper. But do not use white tissue 
for this purpose, as it is bleached 
with chloride of lime, which tends to 
turn white goods yellow. The blue 
tissue is therefore to be preferred. 

Or put waists on coat hangers and 
stuff the sleeves and bust with tis- 
sue, or lay them flat in the tray 
or top of the trunk. When thus 
packed, they will neither lose shape 
nor wrinkle. 

To Pack Hats. — Pin hats to the 
lids of hat boxes to prevent their 
moving around. Or improvise a hat 
box by laying the hat on the bottom 
of the trunk or tray, and cutting a 
strip of cardboard as high as the 



HOUSE CLEANING 



303 



highest point of the trimming. Pin 
this together at the ends, thus in- 
closing the hat, and lay a piece of 
cardboard across the top. Surround 
this with other articles packed firmly 
to keep them from shifting, and the 
hat will receive no harm. 

Uiscellaneous Objects. — Pack bot- 
tles inside of shoes. Pack a chafing 
dish in the middle of the trunk and 
fill up with small articles. Lay pic- 



tures in the middle tray between 
folded garments and fill the tray 
with clean starched clothes. Put 
summer gowns or evening gowns at 
the top of the tray, which should not 
be packed quite full. Pack in the 
bottom of the trunk a child's toy 
washboard. You can then do up 
for yourself small pieces at hotels 
and summer resorts where laimdry 
charges are high. 



CHAPTER XI 

HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN ^PESTS 

THE CLOTHES MOTH— CARPET BEETLE OR "BUFFALO MOTH"— 
THE HOUSE CENTIPEDE— THE COMMON COCKROACH OR CRO- 
TON BUG— THE BEDBUG— THE HOUSE FLEA— RATS AND MICE- 
BLACK AND RED ANTS— THE WHITE ANT— THE COMMON HOUSE 
FLY— THE MOSQUITO— ORCHARD, FARM, AND GARDEN PESTS 



THE CLOTHES MOTH 

History of Clothes Moths. — The 
life history of the clothes moth must 
be understood in order to fight in- 
telligently against it and prevent its 
ravages. It is well worth while to 
give the necessary attention to this 
subject, since of all household pests 
the clothes moth stands in the most 
direct and obvious relation to the 
family pocketbook. 

" A garment that is moth-eaten " 
has been mentioned in the Book of 



as these are among the most expen- 
sive materials used as garments, floor 
coverings, draperies, and otherwise, 
the destruction of such articles in a 
single season by moths may and 
often does amount to many dollars. 
The three species of moths common- 
ly found in the United States are 
the case-making species, universally 
distributed in the Northern States; 
the webbing species or Southern 
clothes moth, distributed through the 
Southern States as far north as or 
farther than the latitude of Wash- 




FiG. 1. — CoM-makirw Moth: Above, Fio. 2. — Southern Clothes Moth: Fig. 3. — Tapestry Moth- 
Adult: at Bight, Larva; at Left, Moth, Larva, Cocoon, and Adult Moth. En- 
Larva in Case. Enlarged (.from Empty Pupa Skin. Enlarged larged (from Bileu) 
Rileu). (.from Riley). 



Job, hence the moth is known to be 
very ancient and it is distributed in 
all parts of the world. The destruc- 
tive feeding habits of the larvae have 
caused them to be very carefully ob- 
served and studied, and there is 
abundant information as to preven- 
tives and remedial measures against 
them. 

Moths, as is well known, feed ex- 
clusively on animal substances, as 
woolens, silk, fur, and feathers, and 



ington, and the gallery species or 
tapestry moth, which is rare in the 
United States, and is found princi- 
pally in barns and carriage houses, 
infesting horse blankets and the up- 
holstery of carriages. 

The eggs of the case-making spe- 
cies, which may be called the North- 
ern moth, are laid but once a year, 
in the spring, the moths appearing 
from June to August. Professor 
Fernald states that the eggs are 



304 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



305 



never hatched in winter in the 
North, even in rooms that are heated 
night and day; but in the South this 
species appears from January to Oc- 
tober, and breeds two or more times 
a, year. 

The webbing species or Southern 
clothes moth breeds twice a year, the 
first eggs being laid in May, and the 
second in August or September; 
hence in the North the moth is a 
summer problem, but in the South it 
must be fought the year round. 

The adult moths do no damage 
except to deposit the eggs from 
which the injurious maggots or larvae 
are hatched. Moths choose darkness 
rather than light, and select a quiet 
and secluded spot where they are 
not likely to be disturbed in which 
to deposit their eggs. They also ap- 
pear to prefer garments or other ar- 
ticles which are soiled with spots of 
grease or other organic matter, and 
the larvae appear to choose soiled 
spots or articles in preference to oth- 
ers. The eggs are very minute, and 
are usually deposited on woolens, 
feathers, furs, or other articles which 
are suitable food for the larvae; but 
the latter have the ability to crawl 
from place to place, if necessary, to 
seek proper food. Hence they may 
be deposited in crevices of closets, 
trunks, etc., through which the larvae 
may subsequently enter. 

The larva of the moth is a dull 
white caterpillar. The larva of the 
case-making or Northern moth sur- 
rounds itself with a movable case or 
jacket, but that of the webbing or 
Southern moth merely spins a cob- 
webby path wherever it goes. When 
the larva of the case-making moth is 
mature it becomes quiescent and un- 
dergoes a transformation in its case. 
After about three weeks the moth 
appears. The larva of the Southern 
moth when mature weaves itself a 
cocoon in which it undergoes a simi- 
lar transformation. 

To Prevent Hoths. — The facts 
above noted indicate the proper pre- 
cautions to be preserved. In general, 
the moths must be prevented from 



laying their eggs on valuable wool- 
ens, silks, furs, or feathers, and the 
eggs themselves, or larvae hatched 
from them, must be destroyed or re- 
moved before they can do serious 
damage. The measures necessary toi 
effect these results are: (1) a thor- 
oojgh cleaning of all wardrobes and 
other receptacles liable to be infected 
by moths, and of the floors, espe- 
cially the edges, on which woolen car- 
pets are laid. (2) Treatment with 
suitable preventives, and the frequent 
beating and brushing of woolen and 
other' articles, followed by exposure 
to outdoor air and sunshine. (3) 
Packing articles not required for im- 
mediate use in tight receptacles, 
after first removing from them all 
moths' eggs or larvae with which they 
may be infested. Various moth pre- 
ventives and moth destroyers have 
been discovered, all of which will be 
carefully indicated. 

Preventives Against Moths. — Pre- 
ventives against moths are of vari- 
ous kinds, as repellents, poisons, and 
various mechanical methods. Expe- 
rience indicates that moths are averse 
to strong odors; hence among repel- 
lents may be mentioned naphthaline, 
moth balls, camphor, and various es- 
sential oils and perfumed woods. 
Other repellents are pepper, tobacco, 
and the like. Various substances 
applied to wardrobes, floors, and 
other moth-haunted receptacles also 
act as repellents, but it must be 
clearly understood that they cannot 
be depended upon. They merely 
tend to discourage the visits of the 
moths, but they do not destroy the 
moths, their eggs, or their larvae; 
hence if moths are present, and es- 
pecially if the receptacle which con- 
tains them is tightly closed and un- 
disturbed, they will deposit their 
eggs, and the young will hatch and 
feed practically the same in the pres- 
ence of these repellents as otherwise. 
Hence other preventive measures are 
necessary to insure protection against 
them. 

Repellents for Moths. — Among 
substances recommended as repellents 



306 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



against moths are paper dipped in 
melted parafiSn, cedar chests, cloves, 
cloths saturated with gasoline, sprigs 
of cedar, pine, or other evergreens, 
tallow candles, wood soaked with 
carbolic acid, pieces of Russia leath- 
er, and lavender. 

To Destroy Moths. — Chemicals and 
methods recommended for destroy- 
ing moths are fumigation with hy- 
drocyanic-acid gas or sulphurous- 
acid gas, the application of bisulphide 
of carbon, various petroleum products 
(especially gasoline and benzine), tur- 
pentine, solution of alum, corrosive 
sublimate, carbolic acid, chloroform, 
and the application of steam or hot 
water. 

To Fight Uoths. — In general, the 
following methods are recommended: 
in April or May, at the time of 
spring house cleaning, carry out of 
doors the contents of all wardrobes, 
bureau drawers, boxes, etc., contain- 
ing woolens, furs, feathers, or other 
articles made of animal products, 
and empty them on a large quilt or 
sheet spread upon the grass. Choose 
for this purpose a clear, sunny day 
with a gentle breeze. Hang large 
articles on the line and beat them; 
afterwards brush them carefully with 
a stiff whisk broom, especially un- 
derneath the collars, lapels, and oth- 
er similar places. Turn pockets in- 
side out and brush them. Let them 
air in the sun as long as possible. 
Shake and brush thoroughly the 
smaller articles. Finally separate 
those that are likely to be used dur- 
ing the summer months, and lay 
aside all others to be packed in moth- 
tight receptacles and stored. 

While these articles are airing, ap- 
ply suitable moth destroyers to the 
inside of the empty wardrobes, chests 
of drawers, and boxes, and, if con- 
venient, set them out of doors in the 
sun to air. Return to closets and 
chests of drawers the articles likely 
to be in constant use during the 
summer. Wrap those to be stored in 
newspapers or tar paper, carefully 
sealing the opening witii flour paste, 
and label the packages. Or fold the 



articles in suitable paper, place them 
in pasteboard or wooden boxes, and 
paste strips of paper around the 
covers and joints and over all cracks 
so as to make the receptacles moth 
proof. 

Adult moths cannot bite, hence 
they are unable to make their way 
through the thinnest layer of paper 
or other protective covering. The 
larvae will not ordinarily chew wood, 
cotton, linen, or paper, especially 
newspaper, but both the moths and 
their larvae will penetrate very mi- 
nute cracks and crevices. Hence 
protection is to be found only in 
tightly closing all such openings with 
paper and paste. Put no dependence 
upon moth balls or other repellents. 

To Protect Clothes Against Uoths. 
— Clothing in closets, wardrobes, or 
chests of drawers not sealed may be 
protected against moths by tight 
bags or sacks of cotton or linen, or 
by wrapping in newspapers carefully 
pasted together at the edges; but at 
least once a week the contents of 
wardrobes and all articles of wool, 
fur, or feathers not sealed against 
moths should be carried to the open 
air, shaken or beaten, brushed thor- 
oughly, and hung on a line to air 
during the heat of the day. This 
practice is also advisable on grounds 
of hygiene, personal cleanliness, and 
economy. Clothing thus cared for 
will last longer, present a fitter ap- 
pearance, and be free from germs, 
mold, and other forms of impurity. 

Substituting oiled or painted bare 
floors, and using rugs instead of car- 
pets in summer time are effective 
measures against moths, but if car- 
pets are used, care should be taken 
to sweep with especial thoroughness 
along the edges between the carpet 
and the baseboard. 

To Hepel Moths. — Line drawers 
and other receptacles with newspa- 
pers or wrap articles in newspapers. 
Moths do not like printer's ink. 

Or place articles in unbleached 
cotton bags. Moths do not like cot- 
ton. 

Or put gum camphor in and about 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



307 



the articles. Or shavings of cedar 
wood or camphor wood inclosed in 
small cotton bags. 

Or put allspice, black pepper, the 
seeds of the musk plant, tansy leaves, 
lavender flowers, juniper berries, or 
bits of sponge, paper, or linen mois- 
tened with turpentine, or Cayenne 
pepper or tobacco or, in fact, almost 
any substance or combination of sub- 
stances which has a strong pungent 
and lasting odor, in and among the 
articles to be protected. Probably 
crystals of naphthaline are as effec- 
tive as any repellent that can be 
mentioned. 

Or place a vial containing chloro- 
form, and having a small slit or hole 
in the cork through which it can 
slowly evaporate, where the fumes 
will penetrate the articles. 

To Destroy ItCoths. — Fumigate with 
hydrocyanic-acid gas or sulphur . or 
camphor. 

Or brush out and dust the inside 
of closets, wardrobes, and chests of 
drawers, brush floors that have been 
or are to be covered by woolen car- 
pets, and wash the woodwork, espe- 
cially all cracks and crevices, with 
hot soapsuds. Then apply a strong 
solution of alum dissolved in boil- 
ing water (1 or 2 pounds to the 
gallon). 

Or a strong solution of carbolic 
acid or spirits of turpentine, kero- 
sene, benzine, or gasoline. 

Or a solution of creolin in water. 

Apply any of these by means of a 
brush or spring-bottom oil can or 
atomizer. Take care to work it into 
^the cracks by means of a small 
brush, a long feather, or otherwise. 

To Protect Carpets from Uotlis. — 
Sprinkle the floor with turpentine. 
Benzine, gasoline, or petroleum, or 
scatter peppermint or other fragrant 
herbs upon it, before the carpet is 
laid. 

Or, if a carpet becomes infested 
while on the floor, sponge the infest- 
ed spots with a solution of 60 grains 
of corrosive sublimate dissolved in 1 
pint of alcohol. 

Or apply gasoline freely to the 



carpet by means of a sponge, brush, 
atomizer, or sprinkler. 

Or apply turpentine freely. Any 
of these will destroy the eggs and 
larva;. 

Or sprinkle borax freely about the 
edges of the carpet and work it into 
the pile of the carpet beneath heavy 
pieces of furniture and other spots 
that cannot be easily swept. 

Or spread a damp towel above the 
suspected places in the carpet and 
iron it dry with a very hot iron. 
Do the same round the edges of the 
carpet, under heavy furniture, and 
at other places not frequently swept. 
The hot steam destroys the eggs and 
larvae. 

Or, if necessary, take up the car- 
pet, beat it as clean as possible, re- 
move the grease spots, and sponge 
carefully on both sides with a mix- 
ture of 1 pint of turpentine to 1 
gallon of water. Wash the floor with 
hot suds made of borax with the 
addition of turpentine, and apply 
around the edges a strong solution 
of alum, carbolic acid, or creolin. 

To Protect Furs from Moths. — 
Beat the furs, using preferably a 
piece of rubber hose. This will not 




"Beat Furs vHth Rubber Hose." 

cut or tear them. Comb them over 
with a steel comb and expose them 
to direct sunshine in the open air. 
Shake and brush each piece care- 
fully, wrap it separately in newspa- 
per, paste the edges tightly, label it. 



308 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



and lay it away in a drawer, chest, or 
wooden box where the paper in which 
it is wrapped will not be broken. 

Or, to prevent accidental breaking 
of the wrappers, lay the packages in 
pasteboard or wooden boxes and seal 
the joints with newspaper and paste. 
Cedar chests, moth balls, or other re- 
pellents are not necessary if all moths, 
eggs, and larvae are first removed and 
the furs are packed tightly; but there 
can be no objection to sprinkling 
naphthaline crystals, red or black 
pepper, various essential oils, and 
other substances having strong odors 
among the furs, or to wrapping up in 
them pieces of gum camphor, tallow 
candle, etc. 

Or, instead of newspapers, put the 
articles in tight pillow slips or un- 
bleached cotton bags, tying these tight- 
ly at the tops. Moths will not pene- 
trate cotton or newspaper. 

Or furs may be washed in a solution 
of 13 grains of corrosive sublimate in 
1 pint of warm water. 

Cold Storage for Furs. — Many fur- 
riers and most of the large depart- 
ment stores in cities have arrange- 
ments for placing valuable furs in cold 
storage during the summer months. 
A temperature as low as 40° F. will 
prevent the depredations of moths, 
and many warehouses maintain as low 
a temperature as 20° F. These estab- 
lishments insure furs against loss or 
damage. 

Mixtures for Moths. — Dissolve 4 
ounces of alum in 1 pint of water. 
Add 4 ounces of salt and i pint of 
spirits of turpentine. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of camphor and 
1 ounce of carbolic acid in 1 pint of 
benzine. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of gum cam- 
phor and 1 ounce of red pepper in 8 
ounces of alcohol. 

Petroleum Products for Moths. — 
Gasoline, benzine, and naphtha may be 
freely applied to all woolen goods, gar- 
ments, carpets, upholstered furniture, 
and the like by sprinkling or saturat- 
ing the articles by means of a small 
watering pot having a fine spray, 
an atomizer, a sponge, brush, or rag. 



Or they may be applied freely to 
floors, the inside of wardrobes, and 
other receptacles. 

Or turpentine may be used in the 
same manner as petroleum products. 

Corrosive Sublimate for Moths. — 
Mix in a glass bottle 1 ounce of cor- 
rosive sublimate and J pint of water. 
Let stand a day or two and shake oc- 
casionally. Then add J pint of alco- 
hol. Apply to cracks in floors, ward- 
robes, drawers, and other receptacles, 
or other suspected places. The liquid 
soaks into the wood, leaving a thin 
powder of corrosive sublimate on the 
surface. Do not allow this mixture 
to touch brass or copper. It is very 
poisonous to human beings. 

Camphor for Moths. — This is mere- 
ly a repellent and does not destroy 
moths. Gum camphor may be wrapped 
up in articles to be stored, or placed 
in and about articles in wardrobes and 
chests, or it may be dissolved in al- 
cohol and sprinkled upon them, but 
the former is the better method. 

Tobacco for Moths. — Tobacco may 
be used in the form of snuff sprinkled 
on articles stored away, or in and 
about floors, wardrobes, etc. Or fine- 
cut tobacco may be sprinkled freely 
in the receptacles, or among the arti- 
cles themselves, or about floors or im- 
der woolen carpets; or a strong in- 
fusion of tobacco steeped in water 
may be used to wash or sprinkle wood- 
work, or applied to cracks and crev- 
ices, etc. 

Pepper for Moths. — Black or Cay- 
enne pepper may be freely sprinkled 
in receptacles or among the articles 
themselves. 

Borax for Moths. — Borax may be 
used with water to make suds to wash 
woodwork, or scattered dry about 
floors or the inside of receptacles. 

To Trap Moth Millers. — A deep 
dish partly filled with sweetened mUk, 
on which a candle is floated, support- 
ed by a piece of light wood or a cork, 
is said to form an effective trap for 
moth millers where they are very nu- 
merous. 

To Store Furs and Woolens. — A 
cedar-wood chest, in which to store 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



309 



furs and woolens against moths, was 
formerly thought indispensable, but 
many substitutes are now in use that 
are cheaper and just as good. Empty 
lard cans which may be had of butch- 
ers and grocers are excellent. They 
are light, tight, and take up little 
room. Ordinary tin bread or cake 
boxes are good, but they must be 
wrapped up in paper or have paper 
pasted over the joints. Large paper 
flour sacks are excellent. The tops 
must be pasted together after the ar- 
ticles have been inserted. 

Or pasteboard boxes that are used 
by dealers to deliver garments, or dry- 
goods boxes lined with newspapers or 
with tarred paper pasted carefully to 
the insides. 

Or old trunks lined in the same 
manner. 

Or a cask or barrel that has been 
used for whisky, wine, or alcohol, and 
still smells strongly of alcohol. 

To Store Bedding. — Line a large 
dry-goods box with several thick- 
nesses of newspapers pasted smoothly 
on the inside, or use one or more lay- 
ers of tarred paper. Shake and air 
the articles, fold and pack them in 
this box, and paste papers on the cov- 
er in such a way that they will pro- 
ject several inches outside. Fold these 
edges downward and paste them to 
the sides of the box so as to make a 
tight joint, and finally tack down the 
lid. 

Moths in Feathers. — Moths will not 
get into feather pillows, feather beds, 
etc., unless the ticks are ripped or 
torn, but should they infest feathers, 
the best remedy is to boil the feathers 
for half an hour or more, and after- 
wards wash and dry them. 

Or soak feathers thoroughly with 
benzine or gasoline. 

To Store Garments. — To protect 
winter garments, such as suits, over- 
coats, and the like, left hanging in 
closets or wardrobes during the sum- 
mer, place one or more suits and over- 
coats on a good clothes hanger and 
prepare a bag of unbleached cotton 
or any old cotton cloth large enough 
to cover the whole while hanging in 



its natural shape. Draw this up over 
the garments and tie at the top with 
a hard knot. 

A section of a barrel hoop covered 
with cotton cloth and having a piece 
of old broomstick fastened between 
the two ends of the' crescent makes 
a good clothes hanger. A pair of 
trousers may be folded and hung over 
the rod, and coats and overcoats hung 
upon the convex side. A piece of 
stout twine or wire may be adjusted 
in the middle to hang by. 

To Prepare Sarments for Packing. 
— Wash or dry-clean all woolen gar- 
ments before packing them away for 
the summer. Remove especially all 
grease spots, which are very attractive 
to moths, and by decaying tend to in- 
jure the fabrics. This takes time, but 
saves clothes and money. 

To Clean Purs. — Before packing, 
clean dark furs by heating bran or 
oatmeal. Rub this thoroughly into 
the fur while warm. Remove by shak- 
ing and repeat if necessary. Beat the 
furs with a piece of rubber pipe and 
comb them with a steel comb. 

Clean white furs by laying them on 
a flat surface and rubbing them with 
bran moistened in warm water. Ap- 
ply the bran with a flannel, rub until 
dry, and afterwards apply dry bran. 
Shake clean, and apply magnesia 
against the grain of the fur. Shake, 
beat, and air well before packing. 

To Pack Clothes. — ^Wash, dry-clean, 
shake, and air. Button coats and 
waists; fill sleeves and bodies vrith 
crushed newspapers. Place one upon 
another. Newspapers prevent creases. 
In folding skirts and trousers, place 
newspapers, not crushed, where the 
folds come and fold them inside the 
garments. Wrap loosely in newspa- 
pers separate articles .when folded, 
and store them in boxes, trunks, or 
chests lined with newspaper or tarred 
paper. Label each package sepa- 
rately. 

Wrap silk, linen, and other delicate 
articles in colored tissue papers. Chem- 
icals used to bleach white paper will 
turn them yellow. Do not use news- 
papers. 



310 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To Remove Odors. — Musty and oth- 
er unpleasant odors in goods packed 
and stored may be prevented by 
sprinkling charcoal in and about the 
articles, and putting lumps of char- 
coal in the receptacle in which they 
are stored. 

To Store Silk. — To prevent silks or 
woolen goods from turning yellow 
when packed and stored, break up a 
few pieces of genuine white beeswax, 
fold loosely in cheese cloth, and place 
among the goods. Wrap up the arti- 
cles in old white linen or cotton cloth. 
Do not use white paper. It will turn 
them yellow. 

To Pack and Store Linen. — Wash 
linen articles, rinse without bluing or 
starch, and rough dry. 

To Store Lace. — Cover lace with 
powdered magnesia to prevent its 
turning yellow. 

Whitewash for Vermin. — Prepare 
whitewash as usual, and add to 1 gal- 
lon 4 ounces of corrosive sublimate or 
2 ounces of powdered copperas pre- 
viously dissolved in boiling water. 

Alum Wash for Vermin. — Dissolve 
1 or 2 pounds of alum to 1 gallon of 
water by boiling until dissolved. Ap- 
ply with an oil can, a brush, or other- 
wise. 

Benzine Wash for Vermin. — Make 
suds of hard white or yellow soap, 
using about J bar of soap to 1 pailful 
of water, and add 1 pint of benzine. 
Use to wash floors or woodwork. Ap- 
ply with a brush, mop, or otherwise. 

Phosphorus Paste for Vermin. — 
Mix 2 -drams of phosphorus with 2 
ounces of lard, and add 6 ounces of 
flour and 2 ounces of brown sugar, 
making the whole into a paste with a 
little water. Add to this for rats or 
mice a small quantity of cheese. 

But remember that phosphorus is 
easily set on fire by friction, also that 
it must not be allowed to fall on the 
skin, as it burns the flesh, forming a 
dangerous ulcer. Hence pure phos- 
phorus, which is. a solid, is kept under 
water and handled by means of pin- 
cers or a sharp-pointed penknife. 

To mix the above, place the phos- 
phorus in a wide-mouthed glass bot- 



tle and pour over it an ounce or so of 
alcohol. Immerse the bottle in hot 
water until the phosphorus is melted. 
Cork it and shake vigorously until 
cold. Pour off the spirit, mix the 
phosphorus and lard, and add the 
other ingredients previously mixed to- 
gether. 

Salberg Vermin Wash. — Mix bi- 
chloride of mercury, 2 ounces ; spirits 
of turpentine, 6 ounces ; muriatic acid, 
1 ounce; water, 100 ounces. 

CAEPET BEETLE OE "BXriTALO 
MOTH " 

The destructive habits of these 
common and injurious pests are well 
known. The mischief is done by this 
insect in its larval stage, when it 
feeds upon woolen goods, particu- 
larly carpets. It is then rather less 




Fig. 1. — The Carpet Beetle: a, Adult; b, Pujta, 
Ventral View; c. Pupa within Larval SHn; 
d, Larva, Dorsal View. All enlarged Urom 
Bileii). 

than a fourth of an inch in length, 
and is covered with stiff brown hair. 
It is often discovered working about 
the edges of carpets making irregu- 
lar holes or following the line of a 
floor crack, and thus cutting the car- 
pet in a long slit. It is most com- 
mon in the northern and eastern por- 
tions of the United States, and most 
active in the summer months, al- 
though in well-heated houses it may 
continue its depredations the year 
round. The adult insect is a black 
and white beetle, having a red stripe 
down its back. It is rather less than 
one fourth of an inch in length. 

The carpet beetle is rarely 'found 
in houses having polished floors with 
rugs, straw mattings, or oilcloth as 
floor coverings, and this fact suggestSi 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



Sll 



the most effective remedy. When the 
house has become infested with these 
insects, it is very difficult to eradicate 
them. Thorough house cleaning at 
least twice a year is advisable. And 
a special house cleaning toward the 
middle or latter part of the summer 
is particularly effective. Take up the 
carpets, beat them, spray with ben- 
zine, and hang on the line to air in 
the direct sunshine all day. Wash 
down floors and spray the floor and 
crevices about the baseboards with 
benzine or kerosene. Meantime open 
the windows and ventilate thoroughly 
before introducing a light. Fill all 
floor cracks and cracks about the 
baseboards with suitable crack-fillers, 
as elsewhere recommended, and, if 
possible, before relaying the carpet, 
cover the floor with a lining of 
tarred roofing paper. Tack the car- 
pet loosely, and occasionally look un- 
der the edges to see if insects have 
put in an appearance. In that case 
lay a wet cloth over the spot and iron 
dry with a very hot iron. Steam un- 
til the insects are exterminated. Or 
fumigate the premises with sulphur 
or bisulphide of carbon or hydro- 
cyanic-acid gas. 



THE HOUSE CEKTIFEDE 

This insect is most commonly found 
in moist, warm localities, as in cel- 
lars, closets, and bathrooms. Its well- 
known appearance, rapid movements, 
and the fact that its bite is supposed 
to be poisonous, causes it to be an 
object of alarm. The centipede prob- 
ably never bites human beings except 
in self-defense, but it is known to be 
carnivorous in its habits and feeds 
upon roaches, bedbugs, and other in- 
sects. The effect of its bite depends 
upon the susceptibility of the indi- 
vidual, but in the case of most per- 
sons, it is very slightly poisonous, 
causing an inflammation similar to 
that of a mosquito bite, which may be 
allayed by promptly treating it with 
aqua ammonia. This insect rarely 
occurs in suflicient numbers to make 
any special mode of treatment neces- 



sary. Open plumbing and care to 
avoid the accumulation of moisture 
in any part of the house are the best 
preventives. Bathrooms, closets, and 
other localities where they harbor 
may be inspected occasionally and 
the insect killed when they make their 
appearance by means of a wire or 
screen fly killer. 



THE COMMOIT COCKROACH OB 
CBOTON BUG 

Exterminators of Cockroaches. — 
Substances recommended to kill or 
disperse cockroaches are fumes of 
hydrocyanic-acid gas, sulphur, pyr- 
ethrum, bichloride of mercury, borax, 
phosphorus, plaster of Paris, arsenic, 
pokeroot, chloride of lime, hellebore, 
and various mechanical means of trap- 
ping the insects. 

To completely exterminate cock- 
roaches in dwellings, warehouses, 
libraries, and stores, fumigate with 
sulphur or hydrocyanic-acid gas. 

Or mix in a glass bottle 1 ounce 
of corrosive sublimate and J pint of 
water. Let stand a day or two and 
shake occasionally. Then add J pint 
of alcohol. Apply to cracks infested 
by cockroaches from an oil can or 
syringe. This liquid soaks into the 
wood and leaves a thin powder of cor- 
rosive sublimate covering the crevices. 
This is a deadly poison to cockroaches 
and other insects, but is also poison- 
ous to human beings and must be 
handled with the utmost care. Do not 
allow this mixture to touch brass or 
copper. 

Or mix equal quantities of grated 
sweet chocolate and powdered borax, 
or equal quantities of powdered sugar 
and powdered borax, and spread free- 
ly on shelves where cockroaches run, 
or spread on pieces of slightly mois- 
tened bread. 

Or spread phosphorus paste on moist 
bread in their runways or under a 
damp dishcloth, towel, or mop. 

Or mix in a saucer 1 part of plaster 
of Paris and 3 parts of flour, and 
place in the runways. Place near by 
another saucer containing pure water. 



312 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Lay thin pieces of cardboard from 
one to the other as bridges and float 
on the water bits of thin board touch- 
ing the margin. The cockroaches eat 
the flour and plaster of Paris, become 
thirsty, and drink. The plaster then 
sets and kills them. This is an Aus- 
tralian method. It is simple, safe, and 
said to be very effective. 

Or scatter pulverized hellebore on 
shelves, behind bsiseboards, about 
sinks, etc. 

Or scatter hellebore on moistened 
bread, but remember that this is also 
poisonous to children and household 
pets. Cockroaches eat it freely. 

Or mix hellebore with molasses, 
powdered sugar, or grated sweet 
chocolate. 

Or mix arsenic with Indian meal or 
molasses. Spread on moistened bread. 
This also is a dangerous poison, and 
cockroaches will not take it as freely 
as other poisons. 

Or mix in saucers chloride of lime 
with sweetened water and place in the 
runways, with bits of pasteboard lead- 
ing up to the saucers and strips of 
wood floating on their surface touching 
the edge. 

Or boil 2 ounces of pokewood in 1 
pint of water \5 or 20 minutes. 
Strain through cheese cloth, mix with 
moiasses, and spread on moistened 
bread or plates. 

Or dust the cracks, shelves, etc., 
with powdered pyrethrum by means 
of a pair of bellows or otherwise. This 
is especially useful in libraries, but it 
stupefies and does not always kill the 
cockroaches ; hence they must be swept 
up and burned. 

Or scatter fresh cucumber peelings 
in their runways. 

Or mix plaster of Paris, 1 part, oat- 
meal, 3 parts, powdered sugar or grat- 
ed sweet chocolate, 1 part; scatter on 
moistened bread and place near to 
open water. 

Or mix equal parts of carbolic acid 
and powdered camphor, and let stand 
imtil dissolved. Apply with a small 
paint brush to cracks and crevices 
haunted by them. 

But of aU the above, powdered 



borax, with or without flour, and pow- 
dered sugar, or both, is perhaps the 
safest and most useful remedy. It 
may be dusted freely on shelves, sinks, 
and kitchen floors, and also forced by 
means of bellows into cracks and 
crevices, about floors, baseboards, cup- 
boards, sinks, etc. It is cheap, and 
harmless to children and household 
pets, and is far superior to any so- 
called " cockroach powder " upon the 
market. 

To Trap Roaches. — Take any deep 
pasteboard or wooden box and substi- 
tute for the cover four pieces of win- 
dow glass slanting toward the center. 
Put bread moistened with molasses in 
the trap and place it so that the cock- 
roaches can easily get to the top. 
They fall from the glass into the box, 
and cannot get out. This is a well- 
known French device. 

Another trap used in England con- 
sists of any suitable box of wood or 
pasteboard having a roimd hole in the 
lid fitted with a glass ring and baited 
with bread moistened with molasses or 
other sweetener. 

Or take any deep china bowl or jar 
and put in it about a quart of stale 
beer or ale, of which cockroaches are 
especially fond, or water sweetened 
with molasses. Lean against this a 
number of pieces of pasteboard or any 
inclined surface bending over the top 
so as to project inside the vessel 2 
or 3 inches. The Cockroaches climb 
up the inclined plane, slip into the 
liquid, and cannot escape. 

To Tlse Cockroach Traps. — Bait the 
traps freshly each night with any 
moist sweet substance, and destroy 
the catch of roaches each morning by 
fire or boiling water. Have traps al- 
ways at hand, and they will keep 
down cockroaches so that it will not 
be necessary to use dangerous poisons 
more than perhaps once. 

Crickets. — The celebrated story by 
Charles Dickens called " The Cricket 
on the Hearth," and the well-known 
superstition in regard to crickets, will 
perhaps prevent many persons from 
numbering these little insects among 
household pests. To exterminate them. 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



313 



if desired, scatter snuff about their 
haunts, pour boiling water into cracks 
and crevices from which they emerge, 
or put ginger cordial in open saucers 
where they can partake of it. 

THE BEDBUG 

To Keep Down Bedbugs. — Each 
week on cleaning day air the mat- 
tresses and turn them. Use, if possi- 
ble, metal beds rather than wooden 
ones. Take down the bedsteads three 
or four times a year, especially at 
spring and fall house cleaning, and 
oil the joints with a mixture of kero- 
sene and turpentine. At spring house 
cleaning in March or April apply bed- 
bug exterminators thoroughly to kill 
the eggs that are laid at this time. 
Keep bedsteads dusted and cracks 
cleaned out at least once a week. Go 
over the bedstead inside and out with 
a cloth moistened in kerosene. Scat- 
ter wild thyme about the mattress and 
in the vicinity of the bed. The odor 
drives them away. Do not depend 
upon Persian insect powder. 

Poisons for Bedbugs. — Poisons rec- 
ommended for exterminating bedbugs 
are hydrocyanic-acid gas, sulphurous- 
acid gas, kerosene and other pe- 
troleum products, gasoline, benzine, 
naphtha, etc. ; hot water, with or with- 
out alum, chloride of zinc; turpentine, 
camphor, corrosive sublimate dissolved 
in alcohol, and various combinations 
of these. 

To thoroughly exterminate bedbugs, 
fumigate with hydrocyanic-acid gas or 
sulphurous-acid gas. This is the quick- 
est and most effective method. 

Or, if this is not convenient and the 
pests are numerous, take the paper 
off the walls, wash down the walls 
with boiling water containing sal soda 
and alum, apply one or more of the 
following eradicators, and repaper the 
walls. Take all bedding out of doors, 
beat and clean mattresses and other 
ticks, and apply gasoline to them free- 
ly with a sponge, cloth, or brush. Ap- 
ply suitable poisons to all cracks in 
bedsteads and other furniture. Re- 
place, if possible, wooden bedsteads 



with brass or iron ones, and carpet or 
matting with Tugs. 

Next to fumigation the best exter- 
minator is kerosene or other petroleum 
products, as gasoline, benzine, or 
naphtha. Take down the bedsteads, 
dust the j oints with a brush, and wash 
with soap and hot water. Boil cedar 
leaves in the water. While their scent 
lasts bedbugs will stay away. Thor- 
oughly oil all joints and cracks with 
kerosene, benzine, or gasoline from a 
spring-bottom oil can or with a small 
paint brush or long feather. Gasoline 
and benzine do not leave any stains. 
Hence use these freely about base- 
boards and on bedsteads where kero- 
sene might stain carpets or bedding, 
but remember that they are highly in- 
flammable. Use them only during day- 
light, and before introducing a lamp 
or lighted match, air the room until 
all odor disappears. 

Kerosene is less dangerous, and its 
stains wiU evaporate with time or may 
be taken up by such absorbents as 
whiting, prepared chalk, starch, and 
the like. 

Or use an equal mixture of turpen- 
tine and kerosene. 

Or fill all cracks after oiling with 
hard yellow soap or putty. 

Or with a soft, small brush go over 
the bedstead, springs, and woodwork 
with a generous coating of hard oil 
varnish. Work this into all cracks 
and crevices, and your bedbug troubles 
will be over. 

Or dissolve 2 pounds of alum in 3 
or 4 quarts of boiling water, and ap- 
ply hot from an oil can or with a 
brush to all crevices in furniture, 
walls, or floors where bedbugs harbor. 

Or apply a weak solution of chloride 
of zinc. 

Or apply with a brush equal parts 
of blue ointment and kerosene oil. 

Or apply a mixture of 1 pint of 
benzine and J ounce of corrosive sub- 
limate. Apply from oil can or with 
a brush. 

Or i ounce of corrosive sublimate 
and 4 pint of alcohol. 

Or i ounce of corrosive sublimate 
and J pint of turpentine. 



314 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or 1 ounce of corrosive sublimate, 
1 ounce of camphor, 4 ounces of spir- 
its of turpentine, and J pint of wood 
alcohol. Apply from an oil can or 
with a brush. 

But remember that corrosive sub- 
limate is a deadly poison. 

Enemies of Bedbugs. — The common 
house cockroach is an enemy of bed- 
bugs, and the little red house ants 
also kill and eat them; but most per- 
sons would consider that to encourage 
such bedbug exterminators would prove 
a remedy as bad as the disease, 

THE HOVSE FLEA 

To Get Kid of Fleas. — The source 
of fleas is usually pet dogs or cats, 
but they may be brought into the 
house on clothing or otherwise. They 
do not breed freely in localities where 
their eggs are likely to be disturbed. 
Hence, contrary to the common sup- 
position, they do not usually breed 
on cats and dogs. But the eggs are 
laid in floor cracks and other crev- 
ices, or they fall from the fur of cats 
or dogs, usually where they have their 
sleeping places. Hence carpets and 
mattings favor the spread of fleas by 
leaving their eggs undisturbed in the 
breeding places. Fleas breed very rap- 
idly, especially in unoccupied houses. 
They are only to be kept down, 
when they get a foothold, by vigorous 
measures to insure cleanliness. 

Methods recommended for prevent- 
ing and eradicating fleas are the use 
of Persian insect powder, petroleum 
products, eucalyptus oil, oil of pen- 
nyroyal or sassafras, the leaves of 
pennyroyal or camomile flowers, and 
hot soapsuds; also washing animals 
with creolin, or, if necessary, fumiga- 
ting the premises with hydrocyanic- 
acid gas or sulphurous-acid gas. 

Dust Persian insect powder freely 
into the fur of domestic animals and 
into all cracks and crevices in the 
floor and walls about their sleeping 
places. 

Or, if this is not sufScient, spray the 
entire carpet Or matting and lower 
part of the walls and baseboards with 



benzine frOm a watering pot having a 
very fine nozzle or a spray-nozzle 
syringe. This must, of course, be done 
by daylight, and the room thoroughly 
aired before introducing any light. 

Or, if necessary, remove all floor 
coverings, take them out of doors, and 
scrub them with gasoline or benzine. 
Wash the floors with hot soapsuds 
containing 1 or 2 pounds of alum 
dissolved in hot water to the pailful. 
If pets are kept, do this as a pre- 
ventive measure when house cleaning, 
or before leaving the house when it is 
to be shut up for a long time. 

Or wash down the floors with hot 
water containing 1 pint of creolin to 
the pailful. This method is sure. 
About once a week saturate in this 
mixture the bedding used by domestic 
animals, and let it drip dry in the 
open air. 

If necessary, fumigate the premises 
with sulphurous-acid gas or hydro- 
cyanic-acid gas. 

Eucalyptus oil or the oil of penny- 
royal rubbed on one's wrists and 
ankles will keep off fleas in localities 
or dwellings badly infested with them. 

Or sprinkle either oil about sleep- 
ing places of domestic animals and on 
their fur. Mix with an equal quantity 
of alcohol and apply by means of an 
atomizer. 

If beds and bedding become infest- 
ed, spray them with this mixture. 

Or place twigs and leaves of penny- 
royal or camomile flowers in beds or 
kennels of cats and dogs or other in- 
fested localities. Substitute rugs for 
carpets in rooms frequented by do- 
mestic animals, also prevent the accu- 
mulation on the floor of litter of any 
kind, such as books, papers, and the 
like. No such accumulation should 
remain undisturbed more than a few 
days at a time. A good rule is, on 
cleaning day move everything. 

Professor Gates, of Cornell Univer- 
sity, has won international celebrity by 
a method of catching fleas in a badly 
infested building. He got the janitor 
to tie sheets of fly paper about his 
legs with the sticky side out, and to 
walk up and down the floop in the in- 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



315 



fested rooms. A large number of the 
fleas jumped for his ankles, as they 
were accustomed to do, and were 
caught by the fly paper. 

IFleas on Domestic Animals. — To 
free domestic animals of fleas, sprin- 
kle their fur liberally with insect 
powder, or wash them in a decoction 
of pennyroyal, sassafras, mint, or 
other strong vegetable perfume, or 
in a creolin wash composed for dogs, 
4 teaspoonfuls of creolin, and for 
cats, 2 teaspoonfuls to 1 quart of wa- 
ter. Apply the wash with the hands 
or with a brush, or submerge . the 
animals in it for about 5 minutes. 
If cats object to this process, place 
them in a bag composed of some 
strong washable material with a draw 
string, not too tight, about the neck, 
and immerse them for S minutes or 



SATS AND MICE 

To Destroy B,ats and Uice. — Meth- 
ods recommended for destroying rats 
and mice may be summed up as 
the use of poisons, traps, ferrets, 
fumigation, and the rat-proof con- 
struction of buildings. In addition, a 
bacteriological product has been dis- 
covered by the Pasteur Institute which 
communicates to rats and mice an 
infectious disease, not dangerous to 
man or other animals, by which they 
are completely exterminated. The 
loss to the United States from the 
brown or Norway rat alone is said 
to amount to several million dollars 
a year. These animals also spread 
the germs of Infectious disease from 
house to house, and the bubonic 
plague or "black death" from city 
to city. An exhaustive list of the 
destructive agencies employed against 
rats and mice in historic times would 
more than fill this volume; but most 
of them are worthless, and only a 
limited number are necessary. 

To Poison Bats. — Mix to a stiff 
dough 1 part of barium (carbonate 
of barytes) with 4 parts of corn 
meal, or 1 part of the barytes with 
7 parts of water. 



Or spread barytes on moistened 
bread and butter or toast. Scatter 
these preparations in small quantities 
in the rat runs. This poison is with- 
out taste or smell, and in the small 
quantities that suflBce to poison rats 
or mice is harmless to domestic ani- 
mals. It acts slowly, and the ani- 
mals before dying will, if possible, 
leave the premises in search of wa- 
ter. Hence this is the safest poison 
to employ in dwellings. All recepta- 
cles containing water must be cov- 
ered while this or any other poison is 
in use, and care must be taken that 
there are no leaky pipes or pools of 
water on or near the premises. 

Or insert dry crystals of strych- 
nine in small pieces of raw meat, 
sausage, or toasted cheese. Place 
these in the rat runs. 

Or dissolve i ounce of strychnine 
sulphate in 1 pint of boiling water, 
add 1 pint of thick sugar sirup, and 
stir vigorously. Soak wheat or oat- 
meal in this strychnine sirup over 
night and spread it about the runs, 
but do not use strychnine in occu- 
pied dwellings, as it is an active poi- 
son, and the rats die in their holes 
before they can escape in search of 
water. 

Or make a dough of phosphorous 
paste with corn meal, oatmeal, or 
flour and a little sugar, and add a 
few drops of oil of rhodium or ani- 
seed. To make phosphorous paste, 
melt 1 pound of lard in a glass fruit 
jar, set it in boiling water, and when 
melted add J ounce of phosphorus 
and 1 pint of alcohol. Screw on the 
top and shake the jar vigorously to 
form a complete emulsion. Allow 
this to settle and pour off the spir- 
its, which may be used again for the 
same purpose. 

Or dissolve in a glass fruit jar J 
ounce of phosphorus in 10 ounces of 
warm water, and mix to form a stiff 
dough with 10 or 12 ounces of rye 
meal, 10 ounces of butter, and 8 
ounces of sugar. Place small quan- 
tities of the dough in the rat run- 
ways. 

But remember that phosphorus 



316 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



readily ignites by friction, and the 
rats may carry it into their holes and 
set the place on fire; hence it is not 
as safe to use as barytes or strych- 
nine. 

To Stop Eat Holes. — ^Where the 
rat holes are visible, pour a little 
water into them at night, and after 
the ground about them becomes 
damp, sprinkle a thin layer of caus- 
tic potash or chloride of lime in and 
about the holes. The damp potash 
sticks to the rats' feet and produces 
sores. In attempting to lick these 
they communicate the sores to their 
mouths. 

Rats caught in traps after the use 
of caustic potash are often found to 
have a mass of sores about the feet, 
tail, and mouth. They wiU usually 
leave the buildings before death. 
Hence where the holes can be found, 
this method is preferable to poison. 

Or the holes may be coated with 
soft tar, or stuffed with burdock or 
cockle burs. 

To Stop Mouse Holes. — Protect the 
bottoms of sideboards, cupboards, 
and the like with a layer of sheet 
tin; or cover mouse holes in plaster 
side walls with a piece of window 
glass set into the plaster and held 
in place by plaster of Paris. Filling 
the hole with plaster does no good, 
as the mice will gnaw through again. 

Or place a. little bag full of Cay- 
enne pepper in the hole. 

Or mix red pepper freely with the 
paste used to patch wall paper, and 
with it paste paper over mouse holes 
in the walls. 

Or line cupboards with newspa- 
pers or wall paper, using a paste 
that contains red pepper. 

Or plug mouse holes with newspa- 
pers soaked in a solution of red pep- 
per. 

Or hang a bag containing pepper- 
mint in infested cupboards, ward- 
robes, and the like. 

Or scatter mint leaves about 
shelves and drawers infested by 
them. 

Or mingle tartar emetic or nux 
vomica with suitable bait. This 



sickens mice without killing them, 
and discourages their visits. 

Camphor placed in trunks or 
drawers will repel mice as well as 
moths. This is especially useful to 
preserve flower and garden seeds from 
mice. Mix gum camphor with the 
seeds freely. It will not harm them. 

To Trap Eats. — Use preferably 
the thin flat rat trap of iron or steel 
having a coUed spring and wire fall 
released by a baited trigger. When 
rats are numerous, procure several 
of these and scatter them about the 
premises. The trap should be large 
enough and the bait adjusted the 
right distance from the mouth, so 
that the fall wUl strike the rat at 
about the back of the neck and kill 
it. 

The French wire-cage traps are 
also useful, and many homemade de- 
vices are recommended. A common 
cask partly filled with water may be 
converted into a. rat trap by taking 
out one end, cleating it, and replac- 
ing it, after rasping off enough of 
the wood around the edge of the 
head so that it will slip easily in 
and out of the barrel. Drive a cou- 
ple of large wire naUs at opposite 
sides of the head, and balance the 
head on them across the top of the 
barrel. Cut a notch on either side 
as sockets for the nails to prevent 
the head from slipping. Before using 
tWs trap, tack one or two shingle 
nails into the rim of the barrel so 
as to temporarily prevent the head 
from tipping, and place any suitable 
bait on the head of the barrel for a 
few days or a week, so that the rats 
will become accustomed to feeding 
there. Fasten pieces of raw meat to the 
head of the barrel by means of glue 
or tacks, taking care that it balances 
evenly, and remove the shingle nails. 
When the rats renew their visits, the 
first one to step on the edge will 
cause the head of the barrel to re- 
volve on itself and drop him into the 
water beneath, when, if properly ad- 
justed, the head will resume its place 
and be ready for the next comer. 

Or the head of the cask may be 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



317 



covered with stout wrapping paper 
and baited for a few nights. Then 
a couple of slits may be made cross- 
wise in the middle of the wrapping 
paper and reenforced by means of 
pieces of whalebone glued to the pa- 
per and running along the cut edge 




"A Cask Covered with Paper. 



and on to the uncut margin. The 
rat walking to the middle of the 
sheet causes the paper to give way 
and drop him inside. The whale- 
bones spring the paper back to place, 
in readiness for the next. 

To Bait Traps. — Bait rat traps 
with pieces of bologna sausage, oat- 
meal, toasted cheese, buttered toast, 
sunflower seeds, or pumpkin seeds, 
or all of these used in succession. 
The bait must be changed frequently, 
as rats are very suspicious, and the 
location of the traps must be fre- 
quently* changed. If wood or steel 
traps are used, insert a stick through 
the trap after baiting, light a bun- 
dle of paper, and smoke it thorough- 
ly. This covers the scent of the 
hands. 

Or place a few drops of oil of 
rhodium or aniseed on or about the 
trap. This covers the scent of the 
hands, and also seems to attract rats 
and mice. 

Or, if wire rat traps are used, af- 
ter catching one or two rats, do not 
release, but feed them. They thus 
act as decoys for others. When a 
number have been caught, place the 
trap in a tub of water to drown 
them. 

A correspondent suggests releas- 



ing live rats after coating them 
with a mixture containing phosphor- 
us. Mix with water to the consist- 
ency of milk 4 ounces of glue, 4 
ounces of asafoetida, and 3 ounces of 
potash, and add J ounce of phos- 
phorus dissolved in a little alcohol. 
Shake the whole to form a complete 
emulsion. 

Catch one or more rats in a wire 
cage. Take a pronged stick having 
prongs about as long as the rat's 
neck is thick, wedge the fork just 
behind the animal's ears, and pin 
him firmly to the floor. He can be 
held in this position without risk or 
difficulty. Roll a bit of newspaper 
into a tight cylinder, set fire to one 
end, and with the lighted end singe 
the hair from his back. This can be 
done without burning the flesh. Fix 
a smaU paint brush on a long stick 
and after dark apply a coating of the 
phosphoric mixture, slightly warm, to 
the animal's back, and release him 
near his hole. Just what impression 
is produced by what seems to be the 
ghost of a departed rat reappearing 
in his old haunts would be hard to 
say, but those who have tried the 
experiment report that no rats remain 
in the vicinity to give an account of 
their sentiments. 

Rats in Poultry Houses. — Traps 
or poison used to exterminate rats 
in poultry houses must be protected 
from fowl invasion. This can be 
done by inverting over the trap a 
wooden box or cheese box, with 
holes cut in the sides through which 
the rats can enter. As an additional 
precaution the poison may be placed 
under a smaller box having holes 
through which the rats can merely 
insert their noses without entering, 
and inverting the large box over the 
small one. This will prevent the poi- 
son from being scattered within the 
large box near enough to the open- 
ings to be reached by fowls. Tack 
these boxes to the floor on to stakes 
firmly driven into the ground so that 
they cannot be shoved about. 

Dogs and Ferrets for Rats. — Fer- 
rets in charge of an experienced per- 



318 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



son will drive rats out of their bur- 
rows so that dogs can capture them. 
The ferret is the rat's most deadly- 
enemy, but ferrets in the hands of 
amateurs are not always a success. 
When rats attack a stack of grain, 
hay, or straw, or take refuge beneath 
it, they may be exterminated by 
building around the stack a tempo- 
rary inclosure of fine mesh wire net- 
ting several feet high, and pitching 
the stack over the netting, to be re- 
laid outside. One or more dogs or 
ferrets may be placed inside the in- 
closure to take care of the rats which 
endeavor to escape while the straw 
is being removed. 

A similar method is employed to 
entrap the rats by natives in the rice 
fields of the far East. Temporary 
piles of brush and rice straw are 
built in which the rats accumulate. 
The stray? is then removed and the 
rodents are destroyed. 

Pumigation for Rats. — Rats which 
burrow in fields, levees, or rice-field 
dikes may be destroyed by satura- 
ting a wad of cotton in carbon bi- 
sulphide, pushing it into the opening 
of the burrow, and packing down 
the soil. Farm buildings are usually 
not tight enough to admit of fumi- 
gation with this or any gas. 

Rat-proof Construction. — The use 
of concrete and cement in construc- 
tion is the best means of abating the 
rat nuisance. All sorts of farm 
buildings and other structures are 
now being constructed of concrete. 
Edison predicts that dwelling houses 
will shortly be made of this material 
from cellar floor to chimney top. 
The foundations of all buildings and 
even whole cellars may be made rat 
proof by this means at very slight 
expense. 

Fill rat holes with a mixture of 
cement, sand, and broken glass or 
sharp bits of stone. Line galleries, 
corn cribs, and poultry houses inside 
or outside with fine mesh wire net- 
ting. Or lay the floors and founda- 
tions in concrete, extending it up on 
the sills. Invert pans over the posts 
of corn cribs, but be sure to make 



these high enough so that the rats 
cannot jump from the ground on to 
the posts or sills. The posts should 
be at least 3i feet high. 

Ratite for Rats. — We make no 
apology for quoting in full the follow- 
ing extract from a circular of the Pas- 
teur Vaccine Company, whose prod- 
ucts are for sale by leading drug- 
gists or can be obtained of the mak- 
ers. This preparation is so unique 
and effective that we unhesitatingly 
recommend it, believing that all who 
try it will regard the suggestion as 
perhaps the best that could be given 
on the subject: 

" Until to-day, the usual means 
employed for ridding private houses, 
stables, corn and hay lofts, etc., of 
the rats, mice, and other small gnaw- 
ing animals which do so much dam- 
age there, were various chemical 
products, of which the principal ele- 
ments were arsenic, strychnine, nux 
vomica, etc., which destroyed them 
by poisoning. 

I " However, the desired result could 
only be thus obtained by each indi- 
vidual rat or mouse swallowing the 
bait, and this necessarily entailed a 
long time when the pests were nu- 
merous, and was even impracticable 
when large spaces required treating. 

" Moreover, the use of these chem- 
ical products was not without dan- 
ger for domestic animals, and hence 
could not be used in poultry yards, 
stables, kennels, pheasantries, farms, 
etc. Children have even been ' poi- 
soned in this way when the necessary 
precautions were not taken to pre- 
vent them from touching the bait. 

" Now, however, thanks to bacteri- 
ological science, which has made so 
much progress in the last few years, 
it has been established that certain 
microbes become pathogenic for small 
gnawing animals by giving them a 
disease peculiar to their species. • 

" This first fact thus made clear, 
we have undertaken to perfect the 
work already done in this direction, 
and have at last succeeded in prepar- 
ing a product which we call ' Ratite ' 
and which, when swallowed by rats 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



319 



and mice, gives them a disease not 
only fatal but contagious, while, being 
peculiar to their species, it is quite 
harmless to all other animals. 

" ' Ratite ' thus possesses two big 
advantages over the means of de- 
struction employed up to the pres- 
ent, viz.; 

(1) "It is absolutely harmless to 
man, domestic animals, and game of 
all kind (feathered or otherwise). It 
can thus be utilized everywhere, in 
private houses, farms, stables, fowl 
runs, kennels, pheasantries, etc., 
without danger of any accident. 

(2) " Not only does it act as sim- 
ple poison by killing the rat or 
mouse which swallows it, but it con- 
tinues its work by contagion, inas- 
much as one of these rodents, hav- 
ing swallowed the ' Ratite,' not only 
catches the fatal disease but becomes 
an infecting agent among its com- 
panions, commimicating it by simple 
contact. 

" Lastly. The application of ' Rat- 
ite ' be'ng at once simple and with- 
out danger (see directions for use) 
in addition to its real efficacy, will in- 
sure its being preferred to all other 
systems of destruction employed up 
to the present. 

"Directions for tlse. — Pour out 
the virus in a clean basin, and cut 
up small cubes of bread (pref- 
erably crust) of about 1 c.c. Well 
soak the bread until it has thor- 
oughly absorbed the liquid, taking care 
that the bread does not become too 
pulpy. 

" Coarse oatmeal or ' Quaker Oats,' 
which readily absorb liquid, may be 
used instead of bread, and this vehi- 
cle is recommended for large areas. 

" Both the preparation and distri- 
bution of bait should be carried out 
in the evening and spread about in 
places frequented by rodents — as far 
a^ possible in their holes. Six to 
eight days after distribution of the 
bait its effects will be apparent, but 
should any rodents remain after fif- 
teen days, a second application should 
be made at once. The best results 
are obtained by one application of 



a given quantity of virus rather than 
by extending it gradually over a. lon- 
ger period. 

" The virus should be used within 
twenty days of its preparation, which 
is marked on the bottle, and if not 
employed immediately should be kept 
in a dry, dark, and cool place (a 
cellar, for instance). 

" It will be noticed that the bot- 
tles are not full, the empty space 
being necessary for its preparation. 

" The odor of this virus is no sign 
of deterioration. 

" The operator should have his 
hands free from cuts or sores, and 
wash them well after preparing and 
distributing the bait." 

We would recommend that if other 
means prove ineffective " Ratite " be 
given a trial. 

BLACK ATSm BED AITTS 

Ants. — The means employed to 
keep the house free from ants are of 
three sorts: preventives, poisons, and 
mechanical methods. 

To Get Kid of Ants. — Place lumps 
of gum camphor in their runways 
and near sweets infested by them. 

Or scatter snuff in their runways, 
or branches of sweet fern or fresh 
green sage leaves or the leaves of 
green wormwood, or lumps of brim- 
stone or flowers of sulphur or red 
pepper or powdered borax. 

Or scrub shelves and drawers with 
strong carbolic soap. 

Or inject diluted carbolic acid into 
crevices whence they issue. 

Or inject gasolirie. 

Place any of these substances in 
their runways, and scatter it about 
shelves, pantries, and floors near 
where sweets are kept. 

Or place preserves, cake, and other 
sweets attractive to ants in refrig- 
erators, or small closets, boxes, or 
tables raised on legs set in pans of 
water. Add a tablespoonful of kero- 
sene oil to the water to form a scum 
of oil over the top. 

To Trap Ants. — ^Place near their 
runs a bit of raw meat or a bone 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



with scraps of meat or a piece of 
bread moistened in molasses on a bit 
of board or wrapping paper. The 
ants will swarm on this, and may be 
lifted and dropped into the fire or 
a kettle of boiling water. 

Or dip a good-sized sponge in a 
sirup made by dissolving borax and 
sugar in boiling water. Wring out 
the sponge nearly dry, attach a string 
to it, and lay it in their runways. 
Have ready a second sponge prepared 
in the same way. As soon as the 
first is infested with ants, lift it by 
the string and drop it into a vessel 
of boiling water and substitute the 
second. Meantime rinse the first, 
moisten it with sirup, and so con- 
tinue until all are destroyed. Either 
of these plans will exhaust an ordi- 
nary colony of ants in a very few days. 
The sirup containing borax will also 
kill those which get away from the 
sponge and escape the boiling water. 

To Destroy Ant Nests. — First lo- 
cate the nest by placing coarse sugar 
where the ants can find it. Each 
ant will take up a. load of this and 
go directly to the nest. The red ant 
often nests in the walls or floors of 
houses; hence is difficult to eradi- 
cate. Trace the ants to the crevice 
whence they emerged, and inject 
kerosene, gasoline, or, better, bisul- 
phide of carbon into the opening. If 
this fails, the nest is probably some 
distance off, and it may be necessary 
to take up a few boards to locate it. 
When found, apply kerosene, gaso- 
line, or carbon bisulphide. 

The small black ant ordinarily 
makes its nest under stones in the 
yard. The large black or pavement 
ant also builds out of doors under 
pavements or flagstones in yards. 
To destroy these ants, locate their 
nests and drench them with boiling 
water or kerosene. 

Or introduce carbon bisulphide into 
the ground near the nest. To do this, 
drive a hole into the ground with 
an iron bar, introduce an ounce or 
two of this substance, and cover it by 
immediately filling the hole solidly 
with earth. 



Or dissolve 3 pounds of alum in 
3 or 4 quarts of boiling water and 
pour this into the nests. 

Or dissolve J oimce of cyanide of 
potassium in 1 pint of water. Pour 
this into the hole and saturate the 
ground about it. Plug the hole with 
cotton and saturate it with this mix- 
ture. But remember that it is a 



poiaon. 

Or pour into the hole a strong so- 
lution of carbolic acid in water. 

To destroy the large mounds or 
ant-hills, make a number of holes in 
the mound with a bar or large stick, 
and pour an ounce or two of carbon 
bisulphide into each hole. This sub- 
stance is not expensive and can be 
used freely. Close the hole immedi- 
ately with the foot. The bisulphide 
will penetrate to all parts of the ant- 
hill and kill the whole colony. 

THE WHITE ANT 

This name is a misnomer, as the 
insect is not a member of the ant 
family, although its appearance and 
habits are similar. It is common 
throughout the United States, but 
most numerous and active in the 
Southern States, and in moist lo- 
calities. The insects feed upon mois- 
tened or decayed vegetable matter, 
as the timber of buildings, books, 
papers, and the like. They burrow 
into the interior of these objects and 
sometimes riddle them through and 
through, so that they crumble into 
a mass of dust before any outward 
indication of their presence is ob- 
served. 

Preventive Heasures. — ^To prevent 
the ravages of the white ant, founda- 
tions of buildings, especially in warm 
climates and moist localities, should 
be of stone or cement, and should 
raise the walls well above contact 
with moisture from the soil. A clear 
space of gravel or asphalt next to the 
foundation, and the removal of de- 
cayed wood or vegetable substances, 
is helpful. 

Or impregnate wood that comes in 
contact with the ground, or that is 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



sn 



likely to be damp for any reason, 
with creosote. 

Or use for such purposes Califor- 
nia redwood, which is not eaten by 
these insects. 

Destruction of White Ants. — The 
only certain remedy is the fumigation 
of the premises by hydrocyanic-acid 
gas. Frequent inspection of any ac- 
ciraiulation of books and papers is 
advisable. 

THE COMUON HOUSE FLY 

To Banish Flies. — The preferred 
breeding place of the house fly is the 
manure pit of horse stables. The 
female lays about 130 eggs, which 
hatch in six or eight hours. The mag- 
gots or larvae reach full growth in 
four or five days, and become adult 
flies in about five days more. Hence 
in the United States a single genera- 
tion is bred in about ten days, and 
twelve to fifteen generations on an 
average every summer. Thus enor- 
mous numbers of flies may be hatched 
in a single manure pile. 

The only effective means to prevent 
or reduce this nuisance is to board up 
a portion of the barn cellar, or build 
a lean-to against the horse stable hav- 
ing a tight trapdoor or screened win- 
dow admitting to the stable, and a 
tight door to permit of removing the 
manure. Such precautions to prevent 
the entrance of flies, and thus to de- 
prive them of their natural breeding 
place, have been proved by experience 
in Washington and other cities to 
greatly abate this nuisance. 

In France the Matin, a Paris news- 
paper, offered a prize of 10,000 francs 
during the winter of 1905-6 for the 
best means of lessening this nuisance. 
The prize was awarded by scientific 
men for a proposal to use residuum 
oil in all cesspools and similar places. 

For each square yard of the pit 
mix 2 quarts of the oil with water, 
and throw into the receptacle. This 
covers the surface with a scum which 
kills all larvae, prevents flies from en- 
tering and laying their eggs, covers 
the contents, and also assists in pre- 



venting the development of the bac- 
teria of germ diseases. The same sub- 
stances may be mixed with earth, lime, 
or phosphates, and spread upon the 
manure in barnyards, stables, etc. 

Or scatter about horse stables saw- 
dust saturated with dilute carbolic 
acid, 1 part of the acid to 100 parts 
of water. 

Disease from Flies. — The fact that 
flies carry the germs of typhoid and 
other filth diseases is now so well es- 
tablished that no one can have a clear 
conscience who is responsible for an 
open vault or drain or an exposed 
manure pile, if there is sickness in his 
household or neighborhood. In the 
country, farmhouses are usually far 
enough apart, so that the responsibil- 
ity for the abatement of this nuisance 
rests upon the head of the family. 
But in towns and villages the re- 
sponsibility rests upon the local board 
of health, who, upon complaint being 
made, have in most cases ample power 
to enforce sanitary measures. 

To Destroy Flies. — The various 
household measures against flies are 
the use of screens, poisons, adhesive 
fly papers, traps, and various preven- 
tives. 

Have screens for every window and 
door in the house. Removable wire 
screens on adjustable or other wood 
frames are, perhaps, most conveni- 
ent. These may be inserted in the 
windows at will and removed when 
not wanted. 

Or a wooden frame may be made 
the full size of the outer casing of the 
window and covered with wire or cloth 
netting. This may be inserted in the 
spring and removed in the fall, or, if 
desired, and wire net is used, may be 
left during the winter, especially in 
the upper rooms, to prevent children 
from falling out when the windows 
are open. 

Or a cheap, handy way to screen 
against flies is to tack mosquito net- 
ting to the outer window casing so 
as to cover the whole window. This 
is always out of the way, will last 
one season, can be torn down in the 
fall, and replaced cheaply and easily 



322 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



in the spring. If there are children, 
have the screen door made in two sec- 
tions, an upper and a lower, so that 
only the lower section opens when the 
children go in and out. The flies set- 
tle mostly on the upper part of the 
door. Hence this arrangement keeps 
out many flies. Adjust the two sec- 
tions so that the whole door opens 
when pulled from above. Flies will 
come down the chimney even when 
there is a fire in the grate. Hence 
screen the chimney by means of wire 
netting across the top. 

Have screens either half or full size 
made for each window on the same 
principle as a. screen door, to fit into 
the outer frame and open outward. 
Hinge on the right side top and bot- 
tom, same as a door, and place hooks 
or bolts on the left side top and bot- 
tom to fasten in place. Use double 
hinges,' and in the fall the screen can 
be lifted, leaving half of the hinge on 
the window frame. Protect this with 
suitable oil or paint, and the screen 
can be adjusted in the spring with 
little trouble. 

Or tack wire or cloth screen to the 
outer frame of the window, to cover 
either the lower sash or the entire 
frame. 

Or this may be done from the in- 
side by tacking at the side first, then 
all around, and facing below. 

Or, if the outside shutters are no 
longer in good repair, they may be 
converted into frames for screens. Cut 
out the shutters from the frames and 
replace with wire screen cloth. These 
are very convenient, as they cover the 
whole window, and when it is being 
washed, or it is otherwise desirable, 
the screens can be opened out of the 
way. In winter time they can be 
taken from the hinges and by varnish- 
ing the wire to prevent rust they can 
be preserved from year to year. 

To Mend Screens. — To mend a wire 
window or door screen that has not 
become too rusty to work with, take 
a square piece large enough to reach 
firm wire on all sides of the damaged 
part. Ravel the edges of the patch, 
taking off two or more wires on each 



side to leave a fringe. a quarter of an 
inch or more in width all around. 
Then, with the flat side of a pair of 
pincers, bend this fringe down at 
right angles. Place the patch in posi- 
tion and push the bent fringe through. 
Bend the fringe in toward the center, 
and place it in firmly by putting a small 
board against it and hammering it 
gently on the other side. The patch 
will hold, and flies cannot crawl un- 
der its edges. 

Preventives Against Flies. — Flies 
are said to abhor sweet clover. Place 
in bags made of mosquito netting and 
hang them about the room. 

Or sprinkle about the room oil of 
sassafras or oil of laurel. The latter 
has been used by the butchers of 
Geneva from time immemorial. 

Or use oil of lavender or lavender 
buds. 

Or soak houseleeks for five or six 
days in water, and wash pictures, fur- 
niture, and woodwork with the de- 
coction. 

Or boil onions in a quantity of 
water and wash picture frames, mold- 
ings, and delicate woodwork, using a. 
soft cloth or a brush. 

To prevent flies from settling on 
windows, wash them in water contain- 
ing kerosene and wipe with a rag 
moistened in kerosene. 

To Make Poisonous Fly Paper. — ^To 
make poisonous fly paper, dissolve 6 
drams of chloride of cobalt and 3 
ounces of brown sugar in 1 pint of 
boiling water. Saturate blotting paper 
with this solution and put a small 
square of the paper in a saucer of 
water, or use the solution itself, but 
remember that it is a deadly poison. 

Or mix 1 teaspoonful of laudanum 
and J teaspoonful of brown sugar 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of water. Ex- 
pose in saucers. Keep away from 
children and pets. 

Or boil J ounce of quassia tips in 
1 quart of water, and add 8 ounces of 
molasses or brown sugar. 

Or dissolve 3 drams of mastic of 
quassia in J pint of water, and add 2 
tablespoonfuls of molasses or brown 
sugar. 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



323 



Or make strong green tea and 
sweeten with sugar. 

Or mix J teaspoonful of black pep- 
per and 1 teaspoonful of sugar with 
2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 

Or mix 1 tablespoonful of black 
pepper, 1 tablespoonful of molasses 
or brown sugar, and the yolk of 1 
egg. Beat to a paste. Flies will eat 
freely any of the above if exposed 
where they congregate, and will be 
killed by them. 

To Make Sticky Fly Paper. — Melt 
J pound of rosin, and dUute to the 
consistency of molasses with 4. ounces 
or more of sweet oil or lard oil. 
Spread this with a brush on two or 
more sheets of manila wrapping paper, 
leaving an inch or more margin all 
around. Place the sticky surfaces of 
each pair of sheets together, and when 
wanted pull them apart. This is also 
a useful preventive against ants and 
other insects. 



THE MOSftTJITO 

Dangers from Upsquitoes. — A 
world-wide campaign is being carried 
on to exterminate the piosquito pest. 
The reason of this is found in the re- 
cent discovery, that mosquitoes are the 
sole means whereby malaria and yel- 
low fever are communicated to man, 
and the suspicion that they com- 
municate other diseases. The fact that 
mosquitoes and malaria seem to go 
together has long been noted, and like- 
wise the fact that malaria seems to 
be contracted after nightfall, but un- 
til recently the part played by mosqui- 
toes in communicating malaria was not 
understood. The notion that the mists 
arising from swamps and stagnant 
water at nightfall convey the germs 
of malaria to man is now quite ex- 
ploded. In 1880 Lavaren, a surgeon 
in the French army at Algiers, first 
identified the parasites of malaria in 
human blood. In 1898 two English- 
men, Manson and Ross, showed posi- 
tively that malaria is transmitted by 
mosquitoes. In 1900 two English 
physicians, Sarabon and Lowe, occu- 
pied a house in one of the most mala- 



rial districts in the world, the well- 
known Campagna in Rome. The house 
was screened against mosquitoes. The 
two men were quite free from malaria 
and chills, while people living near by 
in houses not screened were fever-rid- 
den. Mosquitoes which had bitten 
malarial patients were sent to Eng- 
land and allowed to bite persons who 
had never had malaria or been ex- 
posed to it, but who thereupon devel- 
oped typical cases of the disease. 

Similar experiments made by a med- 
ical commission of the United States 
Army near Quamados, Cuba, prove 
that the mosquito also transmits yel- 
low fever. The commission erected a 
small wooden building tightly sealed 
and screened against mosquitoes. For 
63 days seven noncommune men occu- 
pied this building. They used un- 
washed bedding from the beds of 
genuine yellow-fever patients without 
contracting yellow fever. 

In another experiment a house was 
built having two rooms separated by 
wire screens. The house was tightly 
screened against mosquitoes. Its en- 
tire contents were disinfected, and 
both rooms were occupied by persons 
not immune to yellow fever. Mosqui- 
toes which had bitten yellow-fever pa- 
tients were placed in one room, but 
not in the other. In the room con- 
taining no mosquitoes none had yel- 
low fever, but in the other room six 
out of the seven that were bitten 
by mosquitoes developed genuine cases 
of the disease. These experiments led 
to scientific observations which have 
proved that a certain species of mos- 
quito — ^the Anopheles — ^is present in 
all malarial and yellow-fever districts, 
but apparently not elsewhere ; and also 
that the germs of malaria required 
for their development during a part 
of their life history occur as parasites 
in the bodies of the Anopheles mos- 
quito. 

These facts are stated at length to 
remove all doubts about the connec- 
tion between malaria and yellow fever 
and the mosquito, and to impress the 
fact that such diseases are prevent- 
able. If they occur in any locality, 



324 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the responsible heads of families can- 
not have a clear conscience until they 
have sought and removed the cause — 
namely, all near-by ponds or puddles 
of stagnant water in which mosquitoes 
breed. 

life History of Uosqmtoes. — ^The 
mosquito passes through four distinct 
stages: egg, larva, pupa, and adult. 
The female deposits her eggs, from 
75 to 300 in number, toward the lat- 
ter part of the night or early morning 
on the surface of stagnant pools. She 
rarely deposits them on running water 
or pure water that is frequently 
stirred. The egg hatches in about 
twenty-four hours or more, according 
to temperature. It produces the larva 
or well-known wiggler or wiggletail 
which everyone may see in rain barrels 
or pools of stagnant water. The young 
larva rests just beneath the surface 
of the water, but breathes the outer 
air through a respiratory tube located 
at the tip of the abdomen. The larvae 
cannot live more than a minute or 
two if unable to reach the surface to 
breathe, and to this fact is due the 
common method of destroying them 
by means of a film of petroleum on 
the surface of the water. 

In five or six days the larvae change 
into pupae. In about two days more 
these assume the form of the ordinary 
adult mosquito. Hence in hot weather 
a generation of mosquitoes develops 
in from eight to ten days. Consider- 
ing the number of eggs laid by a. sin- 
gle female it will be readUy seen that 
coimtless millions of these pests may 
breed in a single pool, pond, or swamp 
during one summer season. 

To Destroy Mosquitoes. — Happily, 
the experiments of scientific observers 
seem to indicate that mosquitoes do 
not usually fly very far from the pools 
in which they were hatched. They re- 
quire as breeding places pools of stag- 
nant water that remain undisturbed 
for from ten days to two weeks, and 
they may be completely destroyed by 
covering the surface of these pools 
with a thin film of petroleum or kero- 
sene oil. Hence the problem of ex- 
terminating mosquitoes is strictly a 



local one, and the means are quite 
within the reach of every responsible 
person. Farmhouses are often far 
apart, so that all the mosquitoes about 
the house and farm buildings are bred 
on the place. Consequently, the re- 
sponsibility for exterminating them is 
purely an individual one. 

Or a group of neighboring farmers 
can often be persuaded to act in har- 
mony, or at least to permit an enter- 
prising neighbor to take measures to 
prevent the breeding of mosquitoes in 
their vicinity. 

School children may be encouraged 
to undertake the extermination of 
mosquitoes in an entire school dis- 
trict, or boards of health may be per- 
suaded to take up the problem and 
appoint voluntary or paid representa- 
tives to wage a war of extermination 
through the entire community. 

Kerosene for Uosquitoes. — ^To de- 
stroy mosquitoes, apply petroleum or 
kerosene oil to the surface of the 
pools, puddles, or marshes in which 
they breed. One ounce of kerosene 
is sufficient for IS square feet of stag- 
nant water. Thus a tank or pool 10 
feet across would require about IJ 
pints of the oil. 

To apply the oil on small puddles, 
tanks, or pools, it is only necessary to 
pour it on the surface or scatter it to 
windward with a wide sweep of the 
arm. The oil wUl spread itself over 
the surface in a uniform film. But 
for larger ponds, marshes, and pools 
overgrown about the edges with grass 
or weeds which may prevent the oil 
from penetrating to every part, it is 
better to use an ordinary sprayer hav- 
ing a fine nozzle, such as is used for 
spraying fruit trees with Bordeaux 
mixture. This may be applied in pools 
by wading or from a raft or boat 

A single application of oil kills all 
eggs laid upon the surface and all 
wigglers previously hatched. The film 
of oil prevents their coming to the 
surface to breathe, hence they are suf- 
focated or "drowned." The oil does 
not prevent the female mosquito from 
attempting to deposit her eggs on the 
surface, but destroys her in the act 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



325 



of doing so; consequently, until the 
oil evaporates, the breeding of mos- 
quitoes is totally prevented. The film 
of oil, if undisturbed, will not evapo- 
rate for a week or more, and at least 
ten days will be required after it has 
evaporated for a generation of mos- 
quitoes to mature. Hence in absolute- 
ly still water where there is no current 
to carry off the oU, two applications 
a month will be quite sufficient. In 
covered tanks, drains, and cesspools 
not exposed to the sun, one application 
a month should be enough. But those 
who are fighting mosquitoes must re- 
member that after a rain an old tin 
can, the print of a cow's foot in the 
mud, or a puddle left in a wagon rut 
or hollow may breed enormous num- 
bers of mosquitoes if it remains un- 
disturbed for a period of ten days or 
more. Hence a few days after a rain 
the ubiquitous small boy should be 
sent abroad with a small wat-erpot 
having a fine nozzle and containing 
a gallon or more of kerosene, and he 
should be instructed to cover the sur- 
face of these pools with a layer of the 
oil. Tin cans before being thrown 
on the dump should have the bottoms 
knocked out or a few holes punched 
in them with a can opener. An ounce 
of prevention is better than a pound 
of cure. 

To Destroy Mosquitoes by Drain- 
age. — This needs little comment. Ob- 
viously, if swamps, pools, and the like 
have tile or other drains laid beneath 
their surface so that the water is en- 
tirely drawn off, mosquitoes cannot 
breed in them. But open drains are 
themselves favorite breeding places of 
mosquitoes. Hence these should be 
spread with oil, especially along the 
edges where grass and weeds make 
the current sluggish. If there is much 
current, they should be sprayed two 
or three times a month. 

Rain barrels, buckets, and all other 
receptacles about the premises in which 
water collects should be emptied at 
least once a week or, if possible, per- 
manently. Draining is the most satis- 
factory way to fight mosquitoes, as it 
is much easier to get people's interest 



in the subject thoroughly aroused by 
one concerted effort than it is to try 
keeping it up by spasmodic efforts 
from month to month and from year 
to year. 

Screens for Uosquitoes. — Cover 
with fine wire screens rain barrels, 
cisterns, and all receptacles for drink- 
ing water that cannot be treated with 
kerosene or emptied frequently, and 
go over them occasionally with a cloth 
moistened in kerosene, taking care not 
to let any oil drip into the water. 
This will effectually prevent mosqui- 
toes from squeezing through the screen 
to lay their eggs. 

To Destroy Kosquitoes with Tish. 
— The small pools, marshes, swamps, 
and streams having shallow pools with 
stagnant edges which are used as 
watering places for stock, and hence 
cannot be covered with kerosene, 
should be stocked with small fish, as 
the top minnow and the sunfish (or 
"pumpkin seed"). Both these species 
feed on the wigglers and will quickly 
rid any infested waters of them. The 
pumpkin seed is preferable, as it is 
equipped with spine rays which pro- 
tect it from the larger fish. But the 
top minnow is suitable for small pools 
and ponds where there are no pike or 
pickerel. 

When depending upon fish to keep 
the watering places of stock clear 
from mosquitoes, be on the lookout 
against prints left by the hoofs of 
animals in the mud on margins of 
ponds, where, of course, the fish can- 
not approach. These must be treated 
occasionally with kerosene. 

Household Remedies. — To screen 
all doors, windows, and other open- 
ings, including the entrance to the top 
of the chimney and to the cellar win- 
dows, against mosquitoes may be, in 
malarial and yellow-fever districts or 
during epidemics of contagious dis- 
eases, a matter of life and death, and 
is the best preventive at all times 
against the annoyance of the pests. 
An open porch or piazza fitted with 
movable screens or hinged screens that 
can be opened during the daytime if 
desired, is a great convenience and 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



luxury in mosquito-ridden districts. 
If mosquitoes crawl through the 
screens, rub the latter just at twilight 
with a cloth moistened in kerosene, or, 
if preferred, one of the essential oils, 
as pennyroyal or other preventives. 

Or burn Persian insect powder or 
pyrethrum in sitting or sleeping-rooms 
during the evening, moistening the 
powder with a little water and shap- 
ing it by hand to a rough cone about 
the size and shape of a chocolate 
drop. Place these cones in a pan 
and thoroughly dry them in the 
oven. When wanted, set fire to the 
top of one, which will smolder slowly 
and send up a. thin column of pun- 
gent smoke, not harmful to man but 
stupefying to mosquitoes. Two or 
three of these cones burned during the 
evening wiU give much relief from 
mosquitoes in sitting rooms. The 
smoke does not, however, kill the in- 
sects, and is merely a palliative. 

Or, to kill mosquitoes found in the 
evening on ceilings of sitting rooms 
or bedrooms, nail to the end of a 
broom handle or other suitable stick 
a shallow tin cup, such as the top of 
a blacking box, and wet the inside 
with kerosene. When this cup is placed 
under the mosquito, he drops or flies 
against the oily surface and is killed. 
The last two methods are recommend- 
ed by the United States Department 
of Agriculture. 

Or place a bit of camphor gum the 
size of a butternut on iron or tin and 
hold it over the flame of a lamp until 
it evaporates. Do not let it take fire. 
The smoke which fills the room wiU 
stupefy the mosquitoes. 

Or scatter oil of pennyroyal about 
the room. 

To Prevent Uosquito Bites. — Di- 
lute oil of pennyroyal with water, or 
make an infusion of pennyroyal leaves 
and apply to the hands and face, or 
rub the bruised leaves on the skin. 

Or apply camphorated spirits, or a 
mixture of 1 part of carbolic acid 
with 3 parts of sweet oil. Take care 
that this does not enter the eyes or 
mouth or any cuts or burns on the 
skin. 



Or use a mixture of 3 ounces of 
sweet oil, J ounce of creosote, and J 
ounce of pennyroyal. 

To Cure Mosquito Bites. — Apply 
aqua ammonia or salt and water or a 
decoction of tobacco or dilute carbolic 
acid. 

Or crushed smartweed leaves put 
on with a bandage. 

Or a mixture of 2 ounces of sper- 
maceti, § ounce of white wax, 1 oimce 
of camphor, and 2 oimces of olive 
oil. Melt with gentle heat and stir 
vigorously. Preserve in covered jars 
for use. 

Plant castor beans about the house. 
These are said to repel mosquitoes. 



OECHARD, FARM, AND GAEDEH 
PESTS 

Every farmer or family living in 
suburban or rural locations should 
invest in a good, practical spraying 




The Compressed-air Sprayer." 



outfit and have in readiness the nec- 
essary ingredients for the different 
kinds of solutions used for spraying 
quickly and conveniently. Such an 
outfit will save its cost many times 
over in the course of a. year on any 
farm, or even in a vegetable garden, 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



32T 



flower garden, or ordinary lawn with 
shadq trees and shrubbery. We 
quote from Dr. Wilhelm Miller, edi- 
tor of the Garden Magazine, as fol- 
lows: 

" The ideal way for you to insure 
yourself against all these troubles is 
to get a spraying outfit, costing 
about $r.SO. 

" I like best the compressed-air 
sprayers, because I am lazy^ and 
piunpirig is hard work. With a doz- 
en strokes of the plunger I can 
charge the machine in half a minute, 
and it will work automatically from 
six to fifteen minutes, according to 
the nozzle opening. It wiU spray 
three gallons with only two charg- 
ings. This is enough to cover a quar- 
ter of an acre of potatoes or straw- 
berries. 

" Seven doUars and a half may 
seem a lot of money, but a com- 
pressed-air sprayer saves its value 
the first year in the larger and bet- 
ter crops that you get. The outfits 
that cost less are generally more ex- 
pensive of time or material, or both. 
Moreover, a good spraying outfit is 
invaluable if you keep chickens, be- 
cause the best way to keep down lice 
is to spray the henhouse with kero- 
sene. Also you can spray whitewash 
(an excellent vermin killer and dis- 
infectant) in poultry houses and 
barns and on fences and walls much 
quicker than you can apply it with a 
brush. Also it is useful for water- 
ing plants, washing carriages, and 
applying shading material to hotbed 
sash or greenhouse glass. 

" However, no one should plead 
poverty as an excuse for not con- 
trolling the San Jos6 scale on his 
premises, because anyone can spray 
a few bushes with the aid of a pail 
and an old whisk broom. Just get 
a quart of the prepared lime-sul- 
phur-salt compound at any seed 
store for forty cents, and dilute it 
with fdrty quarts of water if you 
use it in November. From Decem- 
ber to February you can use it twice 
as strong with safety. 

"Many people buy these dollar 



squirt guns, which hold about a 
quart, but they are so slow and tire 
one so quickly that it is better econ- 
omy to buy something that works 
faster and sprays farther. 

" A bucket pump costs about $3.75 
without the bucket, and this is the 
cheapest outfit I would recommend. 
But if you have any small trees to 
spray, you will want a pole with an 
extra seven feet of hose, which costs 
a doUar more. Then you will find 
that the liquid slops over unless you 
get a bucket with a cover that fas- 
tens down tight, and that may mean 
another dollar, or $5.75. By this 
time you wiU discover that it is very 
awkward to pump with one hand 
and hold up a seven-foot pole while 
spraying your fruit trees, and you 
will be willing to pay twenty-five 
cents more and get a compressed-air 
sprayer. 

" Now, if you are willing to spend 
$6 for a sprayer, you might as well 
pay $7.60 and get the best there is, 
for that includes an anti-clogging 
device, like the ' auto-pop,' which will 
save you the most exaspei'ating fea- 
ture of spraying. 

" Then you will have a brass tank, 
which cannot be corroded by chemi- 
cals or rusted like the tin and iron 
sprayers. It costs less than a knap- 
sack sprayer, and you can carry it 
over your shoulder with the aid of a 
strap, for it weighs, when loaded, 
less than forty pounds. You can 
throw any kind of a spray, from a 
solid stream to a mist that will en- 
velop a tree like a, fog. And you 
have only one thing to think of — no 
pumping except once in ten or fif- 
teen minutes." 

Becipes for Spraying. — The stand- 
ard preparations or solutions for 
spraying are as follows: 

Bordeaux Mixture. — This consists 
of copper sulphate, quicklime, and 
water. The " Standard " formula 
is: copper sulphate, 6 pounds; quick- 
lime, 4 pounds; water, 22 gallons. 

The "Normal" formula is: cop- 
per sulphate, 6 pounds; quicklime, 4 
pounds; water, 45 gallons. More re- 



328 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



cent experiments appear to favor a 
still more dilute solution. 

We recommend for a strong solu- 
tion: copper sulphate, 4 pounds; 
quicklime, 4 pounds; water, 50 gal- 
lons. 

For a weaker solution we recom- 
mend: copper sulphate, 2 pounds; 
quicklime, 2 pounds; water, 50 gal- - 
Ions. 

In compounding this mixture, first 
put the copper sulphate on a piece 
of cheese cloth, tying the ends to- 
gether so it will not spill, and sus- 
pend it from a stick in a bucket of 
water. ' Fill the barrel or tank to 
contain the solution half fuU of wa- 
ter, carefully measuring the amount 
used. When the copper sulphate is 
fully dissolved, pour it into the re- 
ceptacle. Thoroughly slake the lime 
and strain the milk of lime into the 
barrel. Then add sufficient water to 
make 50 gallons. 

Stock Solution. — Weighing the 
copper and lime at the time of mak- 
ing the mixture is sometimes incon- 
venient, but as the mixture deterio- 
rates if allowed to stand, it is not 
feasible to make it up in advance. 
It is, however, a good idea to make 
up stock preparations of sulphate of 
copper and of lime, and have them 
ready for mixing when required. The 
lime should be fresh quicklime and 
when slaked must be covered with 
water to keep out the air. Thus a 
stock mixture can be kept all sum- 
mer without harm. 

To prepare a stock solution of 
sulphate of copper, suspend some 
evening 50 pounds of copper sul- 
phate in 25 gallons of water. The 
next morning, if the water is well 
stirred, each gallon of water will 
contain 3 pounds of sulphate. This 
will form the stock solution of cop- 
per sulphate. The undissolved sul- 
phate must, of course, be removed. 

Put in the spray barrel 2 gallons 
of this solution, which is equivalent 
to 4 pounds of copper sulphate. FiU 
the spray barrel half full of water 
before adding the lime. This is nec- 
essary, because if lime is added to a 



strong solution of sulphate of cop- 
per, the mixture will curdle. Now 
stir up the water in the lime barrel 
so as to make a dilute milk of lime, 
but do not let it get as thick as 
cream, otherwise lumps will form 
and clog the spray nozzle. To de- 
termine the amount of milk of lime 
necessary (which vrill depend upon 
the strength you desire), get from a 
drug, store a vial of ferrocyanide of 
potassium (yellow prussiate of pot- 
ash). Continue to add lime to the 
mixture as long as drops of the 
cyanide continue to change from a 
yellow to a brown color. When the 
change of color ceases, add another 
pail of mUk of lime to make the nec- 
essary amount a sure thing. A little 
too much lime does not do any harm. 
The barrel can now be filled with 
water, and the Bordeaux mixture is 
ready for use. 

This is the most generally useful 
treatment for fungous diseases. 

The strong solution (third recipe) 
may be used on most plants, but for 
cherry trees, peach trees, and water- 
melon vines, the weaker solution 
(fourth recipe) is to be preferred. 

Kerosene Emulsion. — Experiments 
seem to indicate that all soft-bodied 
sucking insects are destroyed by con- 
tact with kerosene. Pure kerosene 
may be applied to the hardier trees 
in winter when they are not grow- 
ing. For application to growing 
trees and foliage in summer, a mix- 
ture called kerosene emulsion is rec- 
ommended, as follows: hard, soft, 
or whale-oU soap, J pound; boiling 
soft water, 1 gallon; kerosene, 2 gal- 
lons. 

The soap is first dissolved in the 
boiling water, then the kerosene is 
added and churned by the pump 
from five to ten minutes. Before 
using, this must be reduced with wa- 
ter from one fourth to one tenth its 
strength. A strong emulsion must 
be used for scale insects, as the San 
Jos^ scale. 

For plant lice, thrips, red spiders, 
and mealy bugs, weaker solutions 
may be used. Soft-bodied insects 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



and cabbage worms, currant worms, 
etc., can be destroyed by these. The 
emulsion should be made shortly be- 
fore using. 

Formula for San ^os^ Scale. — A 
special formula for San Jos6 scale 
is as follows: whale-oil soap, 1 pound; 
boiling soft water, 1 gallon ; kerosene, 
2 gallons. Mix, churn, and reduce 
with 6 times as much water as emul- 
sion. Use this in summer to kill the 
young and tender scales. 

Kerosene without Soap. — Kerosene 
and water, reduced as above, may be 
used instead of the emulsion with 
soap. This requires a pump with a 
kerosene attachment. Select for 
spraying a clear, windy day, so that 
the surplus mixture will evaporate 
rapidly. 

Ammoniacal Copper Carbonate. — 
This mixture is cheap, but is not 
quite as good as the Bordeaux mix- 
ture. It is not much used except on 
fruit that is nearly ripe and on flow- 
ering plants, when it is preferred, be- 
cause the Bordeaux mixture would 
stain them. This is a clear solution 
and leaves no stains. The formula 
is as follows: copper carbonate, S 
ounces; ammonia (36 per cent 
Beaum^), 3 pints; water, 45 gallons. 

Mix the copper carbonate with a 
little water into a paste. Mix the 
ammonia with 7 or 8 times its 
amount of water. Put the paste 
into the diluted ammonia and stir 
until dissolved. Add enough water 
to make 45 gallons. When it has set- 
tled, use only the clear blue liquid. 

Copper Sulphate Solution. — The 
same chemicals are used here as in 
the Bordeaux mixture. The formula 
is: copper sulphate, 1 pound; water, 
15 to 25 gallons. 

Dissolve the copper sulphate in the 
water and it is ready for use. For 
peaches and nectarines, use the weak- 
er solution. This must never be ap- 
plied to foliage, but must be used in 
winter and spring before the buds 
open. A very much weaker solution 
— 1 pound to 250 gallons of water — 
can be used for trees in leaf in place 
of the ammoniacal copper carbonate. 



This solution may be combined with 
arsenical insecticides. 

Potassiwm Sulphide. — This is ex- 
pensive and is chiefly used for treat- 
ing seed grain for smut. The for- 
mula is: potassium sulphide, IJ 
pounds; water, 25 gallons. For 
spraying, use J ounce to 1 gallon of 
water. This is a very powerful germ 
killer. 

Corrosive Sublimate. — This is used 
on seed potatoes to prevent scab. 
The proper formula is: corrosive 
sublimate, 1 ounce; water, 7 gallons. 
This is also a disinfectant. It is very 
poisonous and corrodes metals. 

Formalin or Formaldehyde. — This 
is naturally a gas, but is sold com- 
mercially in the form of a 40 per 
cent solution in water. It is not a 
poison, but the iumes are irritating 
to breathe. It is the best fungicide 
for prevention of smut in grain and 
scab in potatoes. For seed potatoes 
the formula is: formalin, J pint; 
water, 15 gallons. Immerse the po-/ 
tatoes for 2 hours in this solution. 

The formula for seed wheat or 
oats is: formalin, 1 pound; water, 
SO gallons. Immerse the seed for the 
same length of time. 

Sulphur. — This is useful in pre- 
venting mildew on plants. Sprinkle 
dry powdered sulphur over the 
plants, or spray with the following 
solution: sulphur, 1 pound; water, 6 
gallons. 

The fumes of burning sulphur are 
powerful as a disinfectant, fungicide, 
and insecticide, but they kill the 
plants as well. Hence sulphur must 
not be burned in hotbeds or green- 
houses. 

Paris Oreen. — The active principle 
of this well-known insecticide is ar- 
senic. It should be of a bright-green 
color, and should be bought of a re- 
liable dealer, because it is often 
adulterated. The formula varies in 
strength according to the use intend- 
ed. A general formula would be: 
Paris green, 1 pound; water, 100 to 
250 gallons. 

For fruit trees, add 1 pound of 
quicklime to prevent injury to the 



330 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



foliage. Paris green and Bordeaux 
mixture can be applied together with 
perfect safety, so as to spray for in- 
sects and fungous diseases at the 
same time. Add 4 to 12 ounces of 
Paris green to SO gallons of Bor- 
deaux mixture. This will kill all 
chewing insects. 

Paris green may be dusted on 
foliage in a dry condition. The for- 
mula is: Paris green, 1 part; flour, 
dust, or ashes, 10 to 20 parts. 

The proper solution for potato 
bugs is Paris green, 1 pound; water, 
100 gallons. 

For peaches and other tender- 
leaved plants, use Paris green, 1 
pound; water, 200 gallons. 

London Purple. — This contains ar- 
senite of lime and may be dusted on 
plants dry, the same as Paris green. 
When used in solution, the proper 
formula is: London purple, 1 pound; 
water, 200 gallons. 

This is more liable to cause in- 
jury than Paris green, and the latter 
is to be preferred. 

Paragrene and Green Arsenoid.— 
These are patented preparations, 
and when of good quality are per- 
haps as effective as Paris green. 
They are said to require less mix- 
ing. 

Paris green, London purple, and 
other arsenites above mentioned de- 
stroy injurious insects without dan- 
ger to the foliage, and there is no 
good reason for buying these or oth- 
er patented preparations that cost 
more and do not do the work any 
better. 

Whale-oil Soap. — For San Jos6 
scale on dormant trees in winter use: 
whale-oil soap, 2 pounds; water, 1 
gallon. 

For scale or aphis in summer use: 
whale-oil soap, 1 poimd; water, S 
to 7 gallons. This may be quickly 
dissolved by the use of hot water. 

Kerosene Emulsion — Milk For- 
mula. — Kerosene, 2 gallons; sour 
milk, 1 gallon. Agitate from 3 to 
i minutes with a pump. Add IS 
or 20 times its amount of water, ac- 
cording to the plants to be sprayed. 



Crude Petroleum. — This may be used 
in place of kerosene when it can be 
readily obtained. A crude petroleum 
emulsion is used on the Pacific Coast 
as follows: whale-oil soap, IJ pounds; 
distillate petroleum, S gallons. Pre- 
pare as for kerosene emulsion, and 
add 12 to 15 times as much water. 

Kerosene and crude petroleum in a 
mechanical mixture of about 25 per 
cent of the oil is about as effective 
as pure oil and much less injurious 
to foliage. Sometimes, however, in- 
jury results, and it is advisable to use 
the plain oU and water in winter, and 
the dilute kerosene emulsion in sum- 
mer. 

White Arsenic. — This is cheaper 
and of more uniform strength than 
Paris green. It may be used safely 
with Bordeaux mixture, or in connec- 
tion with soda or lime, but it cannot 
be safely used alone. 

Arsenite of Soda for Bordeaux Mix- 
ture. — Sal-soda crystals, 4 pounds ; 
water, 1 gallon. Mix and dissolve. Add 
1 pound of white arsenic and boil until 
dissolved. Add water to replace what 
has boiled away so as to leave 1 gallon 
of arsenite of soda. This is stock solu- 
tion. Use 1 pint of this stock solution 
with 50 gallons of Bordeaux mixture. 

Arsenite of Lime. — ^White arsenite 
if used alone may be prepared as fol- 
dows; sal-soda crystals, 1 pound; 
water, 1 gallon. Mix and dissolve. 
White arsenic, 1 pound. Add this and 
boil until dissolved. Fresh slaked 
lime, 2 pounds. Add this and boil 
20 minutes. Add 2 gallons of water 
to make stock solution. Use 1 quart 
of this stock solution to 50 gallons 
of water. 

Arsenite of Lead or Disperene. — 
This preparation is very useful against 
beetles and similar insects, which are 
hard to poison. It can be applied in 
large quantities without harm to foli- 
age, and adheres to the foliage a long 
time. This has been used almost ex- 
clusively by the Gypsy Moth Commis- 
sion of Massachusetts, and is strongly 
recommended by them. It forms a 
whitish coating on foliage, so it is 
easy to see whether or not the ar- 



HOUSEHOLD AND GARDEN PESTS 



331 



senite has been sprayed and when it 
has been washed off by rain. For the 
potato bug it has been found a more 
effective insecticide than Paris green. 
It costs more than Paris green, but 
remains suspended longer in the wa- 
ter, and hence can be applied more 
evenly and goes farther. The for- 
mula is: arsenite of lead, 1 to 3 
pounds; water, 50 gallons. It is ready 
for use as soon as the paste is mixed 
with the water. 

Hellebore. — This poison is not so 
strong as Paris green and other ar- 
senites, and loses its strength after 
being exposed to the air, hence it can 
be used to spray fruit a short time 
before ripening. It is in common use 
on currants, gooseberries, and other 
small fruits. It may be applied either 
dry or mixed with water. For a solu- 
tion use fresh white hellebore, 1 
ounce; water, 3 gallons. Apply when 
thoroughly mixed. This is for insects 
which chew, as turnip worms, goose- 



berry worms, currant worms, and saw- 
flies. 

Lime, Sulphur, and Salt Wash. — 
This mixture is commonly used on the 
Pacific Coast against the San Josd 
scale. The formula is: lime, 15 
pounds; sulphur, 25 pounds; salt, 16 
pounds. Water, sufficient to make 50 
gallons after boiling. 

This wash maiy be boiled in an iron 
kettle. Heat the water before adding 
the lime and sulphur. The sulphur 
must be thoroughly dissolved. 

Pour the mixture through a strainer 
into the sprayer. The best results are 
obtained by applying this wash while 
warm. It must be applied only in 
the winter while the tree is dormant. 
This is used against the San Josd 
scale, apple and pear scab, and leaf 
curl. 

Oregon Wash.-^Saiae as lime, sul- 
phur, and salt wash, but substitute 
blue vitriol for salt. Use in the same 
manner for the same purposes. 



CHAPTER XII 

THE FAMILY WORKROOM 

Part One — Adhesives 

ADHESIVES-PASTES— MUCILAGE— GLUE— CEMENT— SPECIAL 
ADHESIVES 



The famUy workshop is in several 
respects one of the most important 
rooms in the house. From the stand- 
point of economy a reasonable invest- 
ment in the equipment of such a 
room will, in the long run, pay for 
itself many times over. A good 
equipment includes a convenient work- 
bench, good tools, and a supply of 




"A Convenient Workiench." 

nails, screws, and other hardware; 
utensils, and materials for soldering 
and tinkering of all sorts; various 
adhesives; paint and varnish; appli- 
ances for simple metal working, 
woodworking, and working in leather, 
and many other incidentals too nu- 
merous to mention. A good rule in 



furnishing the workroom is to buy, in 
the first instance, only a limited num- 
ber of the most necessary articles, 
and to purchase others as needed; 
but in purchasing to make sure that 
each article is the best of its kind. A 
few good tools, well cared for, will 
be found much more serviceable than 
a large number of inferior imple- 
ments that are constantly getting out 
of order. Only those who are obliged 
to live in restricted quarters, as per- 
sons who are boarding or living in 
city "flats," realize the total saving 
resulting from the numerous small 
economies that can be practiced in a 
well-equipped workroom. On the 
other hand, those who occupy larger 
houses have more needs of this sort. 
And to farmers and others who live 
in partly settled rural neighborhoods 
some equipment of this kind is indis- 
pensable. 

Order in the Workroom. — From 
the standpoint of convenience, and 
time saving, much depends upon the 
condition in which the various con- 
veniences of a workroom are kept. 
It is too often the case that nobody 
knows where to find the hanuner or 
the screw-driver, and it is necessary 
to search various parts of th6 house 
to find out whether or not there is a 
supply of nails or screws available 
for a certain use. Sometimes this is 
due to the lack of a suitable place 
for a. convenient and well-equipped 
workroom, but more often such waste 
of time in useless running to and fro 
is due to thoughtlessness and failure 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



333 



to appreciate the value of order and 
time. 

Educational Value of Kanual 
Work. — From tlie educational view- 
point tiie worlsroom is (or ought to 
be) next in importance to the library. 
And in the earlier years of childhood 
it is probably of superior importance. 
Every boy and girl should have man- 
ual training in all the domestic arts. 
To know how a thing can be, or 
should be, done is of very little value 
in comparison with the acquisition of 
skill and ability to do It and do it 
properly. Many persons nowadays — 
when it is customary to send for the 
carpenter or the plumber, or to take 
articles to be repaired to the cabinet- 
maker or the harness maker or the 
iron worker — are wont to say that 
they could do these things for them- 
selves if they had a. mind to, but that 
it is cheaper and easier to have them 
done by others, and that they have 
therefore no need to acquire the nec- 
essary skill. Aside from the question 
of economy that is involved, this is 
a very shortsighted view to take of 
the matter. It is impossible to use 
the fingers without at the same time 
using the brain. And it is also im- 
possible to use for any other purpose 
those parts of the brain that govern 
the use of the fingers. Hence, if the 
fingers are not used in a great vari- 
ety of ways, certain parts of the 
brain are not properly developed and 
the mind is limited and restricted in 
certain important ways in its devel- 
opment. 

The Good Old Days. — It has been 
pointed out that the American farm- 
er of the past generation carried on 
in the neighborhood of sixty to sev- 
enty different processes on the farm 
that in modern times have given rise 
to as many different arts or trades. 
The pioneer farmer had necessarily 
to be his own blacksmith, iron work- 
er, carriage ironer, wheelwright, car- 
riage painter, carpenter, cabinet- 
maker, harness maker, bootmaker, 
shoemaker, and so on — just as his 
wife had to be her own spinner, 
weaver, dyer, dressmaker, tailor, soap 



maker, and the like. In those days 
there were no artisans in the vicinity 
of the pioneer farmhouse. No one 
could be called in, nor could the 
work be sent out to be done by oth- 
ers. Hence so many necessary tasks 
accumulated that the boys and girls 
of the family were obliged at a very 
early age to master a large number 
of domestic arts and processes. The 
natural desire felt by all children to 
equal or exceed their models resulted 
in the acquisition of considerable 
skill, which was thus transmitted 
from father to son, and from mother 
to daughter, through generations. 

Modern Conditions. — ^The invention 
of modern labor-saving devices, and 
the resulting division of labor and of 
the arts and crafts into many differ- 
ent branches, has, to a large extent, 
taken these processes out of the or- 
dinary home. Even in rural districts 
the increase in population and the 
improved means of transportation 
have produced the same change. 
Thus it is the exception rather than 
the rule for a farmer to mend his 
own harness or to half-sole his own 
boots, to make repairs on his prem- 
ises, to paint and varnish — or in some 
cases even to whitewash. All these 
different tasks are let out to persons 
who do them by the day or hour at 
prices that would formerly have been 
prohibitory. The argument that the 
farmer himself makes more money 
than he did formerly, that his time is 
therefore more valuable, and that it 
is cheaper for him to have work done 
by others than to do it himself, is 
sometimes put forth as though it 
were unanswerable. Whether or not 
it is cheaper in dollars and cents to 
neglect the family workroom and 
hire everything done, the saving of 
money will be dearly won if it re- 
sults in the making of cheap men. 
And the most thoughtful students of 
present-day conditions fear that this 
is the present tendency. 'The minds 
of children are turned over to the 
common schools, their morals to the 
Sunday schools, and their hands and 
fingers are neglected altogether ex- 



334 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



cept for what they learn in play. 
This is a convenient arrangement, 
and obviously at the moment saves 
time and trouble for the parents; but 
it offers little assurance of the devel- 
opment of a sort of manhood and 
womanhood in the children that will 
not in time to come be a. source of 
much more serious trouble. 

Give the Children a Chance. — The 
tendency to simplify farm work by 
hiring everything done that can be 
done instead of doing the work at 
home, and to simplify housework by 
the purchase of patent washing and 
cleaning preparations, the employ- 
ment of laundresses, dressmakers, 
and the like, should be resisted by all 
intelligent persons on account of the 
educational benefit to the children of 
doing such work in the home. The 
example is something in itself, but it 
is even more important to give the 
children an opportunity to lend a 
hand in the actual work, and to ac- 
quire the skill and ability to perform 
the necessary household processes for 
themselves. Farm work and house- 
work are regarded more and more in 
the light of drudgery in proportion 
as they become simplified, since sim- 
plicity leads to routine and monot- 
ony. To diversify the work of the 
house and of the farm is the first 
step in the direction of increasing its 
educational benefits to the rising 
generation, and this diversity can and 
should be brought to a focus in the 
family workshop. 

Equipment of the Workroom. — 
Hence set apart, if possible, a clean, 
tight, and dry wood shed or other 
outhouse, a part of the attic, or some 
room of the house that will not be 
required for other purposes, or a 
well-lighted corner of the cellar if it 
is dry, well ventilated, and has a ce- 
ment or other hard, tight bottom. 

Purchase, if possible, a good car- 
penter's bench with a wood vise and 
also an iron vise and other conveni- 
ences. Or, better still, visit a cabi- 
netmaker's or carpenter's shop in the 
vicinity and obtain permission to 
make a sketcli, with measm-ements, of 



his workbench. Purchase the neces- 
sary lumber and build a similar 
bench for yourself. 

If you buy a chest of tools, be sure 
to purchase good ones. It is much 
better to buy a small collection of 
first quality than a large number of 
inferior make. Or buy a hammer, 
saw, brace and bits, screw-driver, and 
such other common tools as are abso- 
lutely necessary — each of the best 
quality that can be obtained — and 
add to these from time to time as 
special work is to be done that you 
know, if done by others and paid for, 
would cost more than the tools neces- 
sary to do it for yourself. Thus in 
time a collection will be made of 
really valuable tools that with proper 
care will never need to be replaced. 

Arrangement and Care of Tools. — 
It is quite customary to buy tools in 
a chest or cabinet or to make such a 
receptacle in which to store them. 
But it is more convenient, if the 
workshop is dry and its contents are 
not likely to be distributed, to ar- 
range the tools on the wall behind 
the workbench on a series of nails or 
hooks so adjusted that each article 
■will be most convenient to the hand. 
Then paint the outlines of the va- 
rious tools on the surface of the wall. 
Thus it is obvious at a glance just 
where each tool belongs, and whether 
or not the one desired is in its place. 
Tools that are not in frequent use 
can be protected from rust by a 
coating of collodion dissolved in 
ether or alcohol. This can be kept 
at hand in a small, tightly corked 
vial. Or other substances can be 
used that are recommended elsewhere 
in this volume. Saws and other tools 
having cutting edges that are used 
more frequently can be rubbed with 
a few drops of machine oil before 
being returned to their places, as this 
is not likely to evaporate before they 
are next used. 

The mere presence of a carpenter's 
bench and necessary tools will sug- 
gest the advisability of building clos- 
ets and cupboards containing drawers, 
racks, trays, and other conveniences 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



335 



in which to keep hardware, adhe- 
sives, paint and varnish, and the 
miscellaneous implements and mate- 
rials required for all sorts of house- 
hold use. 

Dry articles can be kept In empty- 
boxes that have contained oatmeal or 
other cereals; nails and screws and 
the like, in empty baking-powder or 
other tins. A collection of pint, 
quart, and two-quart glass fruit jars, 
with patent stoppers and tight rub- 
ber rings to prevent evaporation, will 
be found most convenient receptacles 
for paints, varnishes, and other liq- 
uids. All such receptacles can be 
labeled and arranged in orderly fash- 
ion. Thus habits of neatness, order, 
and system can be instilled in the 
minds of children, and the peace and 
happiness of the household be spared 
from the annoyance of unnecessary 
search for this or that. 

Various TJtensils. — In addition to 
a good workbench, a, number of spe- 
cial utensils are so necessary in va- 
rious ways to the average family that 
they should always find a, place in 
the family workshop. Among these 
are vises (including two bench vises 
— one for wood, the other for metal) ; 
also a small hand vise, a good solder- 
ing iron with solder and soldering 
liquid; a good-sized iron gluepot 
made in two parts after the fashion 
of the double boiler; a small paint 
mill; a good-sized earthen or porce- 
lain mortar and pestle; suitable 
weights and measures; a grindstone 
or emery wheel, whetstone, and oil- 
stone for sharpening tools; and — if 
it can be afforded — foot or power 
lathes for turning and working both 
wood and metal. Of course the ex- 
pense of stocking a workshop in the 
first instance with all these appliances 
would be considerable. But it should 
be borne in mind that they are all 
likely to be needed frequently, that if 
purchased of the best quality and 
given good care they will last a life- 
time, and that if used as often as 
they should be in the ordinary house- 
hold they will pay for themselves 
many times over. 



In addition to the above, a small 
portable forge or furnace with bel- 
lows, a small alcohol lamp with blow- 
pipe, and one or more crucibles in 
which to melt metals and other sub- 
stances, will be found exceedingly 
convenient. This list might, of 
course, be indefinitely extended to in- 
clude chemical apparatus, electric 
batteries, and other devices for elec- 
troplating and the like, but these are 
special interests, and cannot be re- 
garded equally as necessary in the 
average household as those above 
mentioned. 

Nails. — Among uncivilized tribes, 
the earliest nails were doubtless the 
thorns of the locust, or other trees, 
which sometimes reach the length of 
6 or 8 inches, and become nearly as 
hard as iron. The use of fish bones 
was also common. Later, wooden pins 
were employed, being driven through 
holes burned by hot irons. The first 
iron nails were hand-forged with ham- 
mer and anvil. But nails are now 
made by machinery in great variety 
and enormous numbers. 

Kinds of Nails. — Fifty years ago 
there were upwards of 3,000 different 
kinds of nails, all under different 
names perfectly understood by per- 
sons manufacturing and using them. 
The United States Government now 
classifies nails as cut, wrought, horse- 
shoe, shoe, barbed, composition, but- 
ton, carpet, coffin, sheathing, gal- 
vanized, harness, leather-work, pic- 
ture, siding, slating, trunk, upholstery, 
weather-tiling, and screw. Of these, 
the cut, wrought, and horseshoe nails 
are by far the most important. The 
trade commonly recognizes common, 
fence, sheeting, casing, box, flooring, 
finishing, fine finishing, light barrel, 
lining, roofing, shingle, slating, clinch, 
boat, cooper, tobacco, zinc, copper, 
tinned, and galvanized nails, and nu- 
merous brands of brads, tacks, and 
spikes. 

Sizes of Nails. — Nails are known by 
the trade as two penny, three penny, 
and so on, the letter " d." being used 
as an abbreviation. The standard of 
measurement is supposed to be tl(e 



336 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



weight of 1,000 nails, that is to say 
1,000 six penny nails will weigh 6 
pounds. One thousand ten penny 
nails, 10 pounds, and so on. But these 
figures are only approximate, and 
vary considerably. The best authori- 
ties recognize as standard for " com- 
mon cut nails " 978 six pennies in 6 
pounds, 754 eight pennies in 8 pounds, 
and in " finishing nails " the number 
is much larger, amounting to 1,176 
six pennies in 6 pounds. Hence many 
carpenters and others who use naUs 
in large quantities, order them by 
the keg of wholesale dealers, and 
specify the length and quality wanted. 
The accepted lengths of standard 
steel-cut nails are as follows: two 
penny, 1 inch; three penny, IJ inches; 
four penny, IJ inches; five penny, Ij 
inches; six penny, 3 inches; seven 
penny, 3i inches; eight penny, 2 J 
inches; nine penny, 2i inches; ten 
penny, 3 inches; twelve penny, SJ 
inches; sixteen penny, 3 J inches; 
twenty penny, 4 inches; thirty penny, 
4J inches; forty penny, 5 inches; fifty 
penny, SJ inches; sixty penny, 6 
inches. 

Machine-made nails are very much 
cheaper than formerly, selling ordi- 
narily at about 4 cents a pound re- 
tail, or Si cents wholesale in quan- 
tities of 100 poimds. 

Driving Nails undoubtedly has a 
distinct educational value. It brings 
into play certain muscles and thus 
develops a corresponding section of 
the brain. There is no more useful 
occupation for a boy than to give 
him plenty of nails, a hammer, saw, 
and a quantity of lumber and let him 
amuse himself by building to his 
heart's content. 

Mixed Nails. — Many retail hard- 
ware dealers in towns and cities put 
up for sale S- or 10-pound boxes of 
mixed nails in assorted sizes suitable 
for family use. Or any dealer in 
nails will fill such an order. A box 
containing an assortment of naUs of 
all sizes will be found exceedingly 
useful. Or a tray with compart- 
ments ranging in size from 2 to 4 
^ches square and 1^ or 3 inches deep, 



each containing a different size of 
nails, will be found even more con- 
venient. 

Driving and Drawing Nails. — A 
nail can be driven more readily, es- 
pecially into hard wood, if it is first 
oiled or run through a. piece of soft 
yeUow soap. A rusty naU may be 
drawn more readily if it is started by 
a blow of the hammer to loosen the 
rust. 

Or hold a red-hot iron on the head 
of the nail to expand it and draw at 
once. As it begins to cool, it will 
draw out readily. 

.Screws. — Screws can be driven 
more easily if oiled, soaped, or even 
thoroughly wet in the mouth with 
saliva. If the wood is soft, dip the 
screw in liquid glue. This wUl make 
it hold better. Or first make h, gim- 
let, hole, somewhat smaller than the 
screw, fill it with powdered rosin, and 
heat the screw before driving it. To 
remove a rusted screw, apply a hot 
iron to the head before using the 
screw-driver. To loosen the screw of 
a nut, pour a little kerosene oil over 
it and wait until it has had time to 
soak in. Jar the nut slightly with a 
hammer to loosen the rust. 

Saws. — Saws are of many kinds, 
but for ordinary use, two or three 
will be found sufficient. These are 
the crosscut saw, the rip saw, and 
the keyhole saw. The teeth of the 
crosscut saw are finer and set more 
closely together, giving the sawdust a 
fine granular appearance. The teeth 
of the rip saw are larger and set 
wider apart. The keyhole saw is 
small and pointed, so that it can be 
inserted in small openings and the 
like. The labor of sawing will be 
much lightened by using a saw 
adapted to the work in hand, and by 
oiling or greasing the saw blade oc- 
casionally, especially if the wood is 
wet or gimimy. 

To Recut Files Chemically. — Dis- 
solve 8 ounces of soda in 2 quarts 
of water, immerse the files in this, 
and boil IS minutes to clean them. 
Rinse with cold water, pour over 
them in an earthen vessej a solution 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



337 



of 1 pint of sulphuric acid in 4 
quarts of water, and let stand over 
night. Remove them, wash with hot 
water, and oil them to prevent rust. 
The acid water may be bottled and 
used again. 

Sandpaper. — To make sandpaper, 
grind in an iron mortar a quantity of 
broken window glass and sift it 
through a coarse or fine sieve, accord- 
ing to the quality of sandpaper re- 
quired, on a piece of cartridge or 
other tough, smooth paper, previous- 
ly coated with glue. Cut the paper 
to convenient size, tack it on a board, 
and apply by means of a brush thin 
hot glue of about the consistency of 
mucilage in such a. way as to leave a 
half inch margin all around. Let 
stand imtil the glue is stiff and apply 
the glass. Shake off and save the 
surplus of glass, which may be used 
again. Care must be taken not to 
breathe the flying fragments of glass, 
as they are very poisonous. 

ADHESIYES 

Adhesives. — Adhesives are a class 
of substances capable of attaching 
themselves to the surface of solid bod- 
ies, and thus, when interposed between 
them, of uniting such bodies. Vari- 
ous substances and compounds have 
adhesive or sticky properties. Among 
these are the gums arable, tragacanth, 
and Senegal; dextrin, gelatin or glue, 
isinglass or fish glue; various resins, 
as shellac, rosin, etc.; casein, from 
the curd of milk and cheese; India 
rubber, gutta percha, litharge, and 
other substances too numerous to men- 
tion. 

Various preparations of these sub- 
stances may be loosely classed accord- 
ing to their composition in the order 
of their adhesive power, as paste, mu- 
cilage, glue (either solid or liquid), 
and cement. But these terms hardly 
have a definite meaning, and are often 
used Interchangeably. Some knowledge 
of the origin and properties of the 
different substances used in adhesive 
compounds will be of much assistance 
in preparing and using them. 



Dextrin. — A substance formed from 
starch, rice flour, or cornstarch, also 
known as British gum or starch gum. 
Jt is used as a substitute for gum 
arable, as a size for mucilage, and 
especially for the backs of postage 
stamps and sealing envelopes. 

Gluten. — A substance believed to be 
produced by the action of a ferment. 
It is formed in flour by uniting or 
mixing it with cold water. Gluten is 
the substance which retains the car- 
bonic-acid gas in bread making, and 
thus assists in the process of raising 
bread. 

Gelatin. — Gelatin is produced from 
certain animal membranes by the ac- 
tion of hot water. Isinglass, calf's- 
foot jelly, and glue are chiefly com- 
posed of gelatin. It absorbs water, 
which causes it to swell, and may be 
dissolved in hot water or acetic and 
other acids. The addition of alcohol, 
corrosive sublimate, or tannic acid to 
a solution of gelatin in water causes 
the gelatin to be thrown down. 

Glue. — The glue of commerce is dry 
gelatin having a more or less brown- 
ish color according to its purity. 
White or pale glue is the best. It is 
a hai-d, brittle, glossy substance which 
usually comes in thin sheets. Glue is 
obtained by cleansing scraps of hides, 
hoofs, and horns with lime, and boil- 
ing them until changed into gelatin. 

Glue can also be made from bones, 
but this is of inferior quality. Pre- 
pared or liquid glue is ordinary glue 
dissolved in water with the addition 
of acids that have the power to dis- 
solve glue without heat and hold it in 
a state of solution. 

Isinglass. — ^Dry gelatin is prepared 
from the air bladder of sturgeon and 
other fish, such as cod, weakfish, hake, 
etc. It is used ip preparing jellies, 
blancmange, gum drops, etc.; in mak- 
ing court-plaster, as a size for deli- 
cate fabrics, and as an adhesive. 

Fish Glue is an Inferior isinglass 
made from the offal of fisheries. 

To melt Isinglass, beat up i tea- 
spoonful of white of egg in 1 pint of 
water. Add 4 ounces of isinglass, 
and melt over a slow fire. 



338 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To detect adulteration by gelatin, 
drop a sample of the suspected isin- 
glass into vinegar. Pure isinglass will 
swell like jelly, while gelatin will be- 
come hard. 

Or put a sample in cold water. 
Pure isinglass becomes cloudy and 
white, and the adulteration becomes 
jellylike and clear. 

Kesins. — For the various resins hav- 
ing adhesive qualities including rosin, 
shellac, and the like, see under " Var- 
nish." 

Gutta Percha. — The hardened milky 
juice of a large tree growing in the 
East Indies. It is insoluble in water, 
slightly soluble in alcohol and ether, 
and readily dissolved in bisulphide of 
carbon, benzol, chloroform, and oil of 
turpentine. It deteriorates rapidly 
when exposed to the air, and becomes 
brittle and useless. It is chiefly used 
for coating submarine telegraph wires 
and other metallic articles under 
water. 

Caoutchouc, gum elastic, or India 
rubber is the juice or sap of several 
tropical plants growing in the East 
Indies and South America. It is ob- 
tained by cutting the bark and drying 
the juice over smoky fires, which im- 
part its black color. It is elastic and 
waterproof. When combined with 
about 25 per cent of sulphur and 
raised to a temperature of about 270° 
F., it is converted into soft vulcanized 
rubber; by the addition of SO per cent 
of sulphur and heating to 300° F., it 
becomes hard vulcanized rubber or 
ebonite. 

To Choose Adhesives. — An adhesive 
should be selected according to the 
nature of the substances to be united 
and the use to which they are to be 
put. If the right cement is employed, 
the hardest and smoothest surfaces, 
as glass and polished metals, may be 
united so firmly that they will break 
anywhere rather than where the parts 
are cemented. 

To Use Adhesives. — The object of 
using adhesives is to bring two sur- 
faces into such intimate contact as to 
make them practically one, and not to 
interpose between them any perishable 



layer or thickness of the adhesive it- 
self. Most adhesives are more brit- 
tle than the substances which they 
unite; hence the best work is done 
when the adhesive penetrates into the 
pores of the materials on both sides 
and brings the particles of both sur- 
faces closely together, so that the 
strength of the materials themselves 
is added to that of the adhesive in a 
union which may be stronger than the 
adjacent parts. 

The presence of any foreign sub- 
stance, as dirt, grease, or bubbles of 
air, hinders adhesion. Heating the 
surfaces to be joined promotes it by 
expanding the pores and thus enabling 
them to absorb more of the adhesive. 
Heating the adhesive itself also as- 
sists. 

Moreover, heat tends to drive away 
the air. Hence the hotter one can 
handle the parts and the adhesive the 
closer they can be brought into con- 
tact and the less adhesive will be re- 
quired. 

To Use Glue. — To get the best re- 
sults from glue, it should be thin and 
hot, and the parts should be at least 
warm enough to prevent the glue from 
being chilled by them. As glue is 
gummy and elastic, the parts, when 
possible, should be squeezed together 
by means of a vise or under clamps 
tightened by a screw, so as to squeeze 
out the excess of glue and bring the 
parts into intimate contact. The arti- 
cles should be left in the vise until the 
glue is set. 

To Use Cement. — Resinous cements 
which are used in a melted state will 
not do good work unless the adjacent 
parts are heated above the point at 
which the resins melt. 

PASTES 

riour Paste. — Ordinary paste Is 
made by mixing wheat flour or rice 
flour with water, with or without boU- 
ing. It may be improved by the ad- 
dition of various other adhesives, as 
rosin, gum arable, and glue, and also 
by the addition of alum. 

To make simple cold flour paste. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



339 



mix 1 tablespoonful of flour with 1 
teacupful of cold water. Add a few 
drops of carbolic acid or other pre- 
servative. 

Or, for library paste, dissolve i 
ounce of alum in 1 pint of warm 
water. Stir in flour to the consistency 
of cream, carefully breaking all lumps. 
Add 1 teaspoonful of powdered resin 
and 5 or 6 cloves, or a few drops of 
oil of cloves, and boil until it thick- 
ens. Thin, if necessary, with a, little 
hot water. Put in an earthen or glass 
vessel, as a glass fruit jar tightly cov- 
ered, and keep in a cool place. Soften 
when needed with warm water. This 
paste is suitable for scrapbooks and 
similar articles, and is better for such 
uses than a paste or mucilage contain- 
ing gum arable. 

To soften library paste, add a few 
drops of water and melt the paste 
with gentle heat. 

Or to 1 heaping teaspoonful of 
flour add i teaspoonful of pulverized 
alum. Rub smooth with a little cold 
water. Mix with boiling water to the 
consistency of cream and boil until it 
thickens. 

To Preserve Tlour Paste. — ^Add to 
each half pint of flour paste not con- 
taining alum IS grains of corrosive 
sublimate. This prevents the forma- 
tion of mold and preserves the paste 
from the attacks of insects and ver- 
min. Add also a few drops of oil of 
lavender, rosemary, or cloves, or any 
of the essential oils, and a few drops 
of carbolic acid. 

Paper Hanger's Paste. — Mix 4 
pounds of flour, J pound of powdered 
alum, and J pound of pulverized rosin. 
Rub up this mixture with a small 
quantity of warm water until smooth 
and free from lumps. Mix with boil- 
ing water to the consistency of cream 
and boil until it thickens. 

Or use cornstarch or wheat starch 
or rice flour instead of wheat flour. 

To use this paste, spread it freely 
on the paper, then lay or fold the 
pasted sides lightly together. This 
assists in distributing the paste evenly 
and also in handling the paper. Af- 
ter the upper end has been attached. 



the lower part may be unfolded as it 
goes on the wall. The wall should 
first be coated with a thin glue size 
made of about 4 ounces of glue to 1 
gallon of water. 

Or make a glue size by dissolving 10 
ounces of glue in 3J gallons of water. 
Mix 9 pounds of bole, an earthy sub- 
stance resembling clay, with water 
to the consistency of cream, and strain 
off the water through cheese cloth. 
Add the moistened bole to the glue 
size and stir in 3 poimds of gypsum. 
Strain through cheese cloth and dilute 
with boiling water. This is an ex- 
cellent paste for old walls covered 
with one or more coatings of white- 
wash. 

Rice Paste or Japanese Cement. — 
Mix powdered rice with a little cold 
water, rubbing it until smooth and 
free from lumps. Add boiling water 
and boil, stirring constantly, until ij: 
thickens. This is an excellent library 
paste, suitable for scrapbooks and all 
kinds of fancy paper work. 

Or it may be used to paste strips 
of transparent paper used to mend 
tears in valuable books, as it is nearly 
transparent when dry. For all fine 
paper work, ■ it is much superior to 
paste made of wheat flour. 

Flour Cement. — A paste of wheat 
flour and cold water worked with the 
fingers into a stiff dough is a useful 
cement for attaching the metal tops 
to glass articles and other similar pur- 
poses. It requires two or three days 
to harden. 

Plour Paste with Sugar. — The ad- 
dition of 1 tablespoonful of sugar to 
1 quart of flour paste increases its 
adhesiveness and tenacious quality. 

MTTCIIAGE 

Gum arable and similar substances, 
as gum tragacanth, Senegal, and the 
like, are readily soluble in water, and 
hence form the base of the liquid ad- 
hesives known as mucilage. 

Gum-arabic Paste. — Dissolve 2J 
ounces of gum acacia in 3 quarts of 
warm water. Stir in 1 pound of wheat 
flour to form a paste. Add IJ ounces 



340 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



of sugar of lead and IJ ounces of 
alum dissolved in water. Stir and 
bring to a boil with gentle heat. Re- 
move the mixture from the fire, but 
before it boils, and cool for use. Thin, 
if necessary, with a solution of gum 
arable in water. 

Or dissolve 2 ounces of gum arable 
in 1 pint of water. Add i ounce of 
laundry starch and i ounce of white 
sugar mixed with a little cold water 
to a thick paste free from lumps, and 
boil in a double boiler until the starch 
becomes clear. Add a few cloves or 
a few drops of any essential oil as a 
preservative. 

Or mix 4 ounces of gum arable, 3 
ounces of starch, and 1 ounce of sugar 
in a dry mortar. Add cold water to 
make a paste as thick as melted glue. 
Bottle for use. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of gum arable 
in 2 ounces of water and thicken to a 
paste with starch. 

Gum-arabic Cement. — Dissolve J 
ounce of gum arable in 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water. Add plaster 
of Paris to make a thick paste. Ap- 
ply with a brush to the broken edges 
of glass, china, and earthenware. 
Press or tie together, and let stand 
two or three days. The article can- 
not be broken again at the same place. 
The whiteness of this cement adds to 
its value. 

Or dissolve 8 ounces of gum arable 
to a thick mucilage with water, add 
12 ounces of plaster of Paris and 2J 
ounces of sifted lime. Mix well. Use 
to cement broken marble. Heat the 
cement and also the edges of the mar- 
ble, and apply with a. brush. 

Gum arable is also mixed with plas- 
ter of Paris and other substances to 
form pastes and cements. 

Uucilage. — To make mucilage, put 
3 ounces of gum arable in a glass bot- 
tle with i pint of cold water. Let 
stand 24 hours and stir occasionally. 
Add a few whole cloves or a few 
drops of any of the essential oils to 
prevent molding. 

Or mix IJ ounces of gum ara- 
ble and IJ ounces of gum tragacanth. 
Add J pint of water and dissolve. 



The solution may be made much more 
quickly by the use of gentle heat by 
means of a double boiler or other- 
wise. 

Or mix 3 ounces of gum arable or 
gum tragacanth, 3 ounces of distilled 
vinegar, and 1 ounce of white sugar. 

Or 6 ounces of gum arable, 1 
ounce of acetic acid, 1 ounce of white 
sugar, and 5 ounces of water. 

Botanical Ilucilage. — Mix 5 ounces 
of gum arable, 3 oimces of sugar, 2 
ounces of starch, and 5 ounces of 
water. Boil and stir until very thick 
and white. Thin with hot water if 
necessary. Use for mounting pressed 
flowers and other botanical specimens. 

Ivory Mucilage. — Mix 2 ounces of 
pulverized gum arable and 1 ounce 
of calomel. Add water to make a 
thin paste. Use for gluing on ivory 
veneers, piano keys, and the like. 

Laljel Hucilage. — Mix J ounce of 
gum arable, 10 grains of sulphate of 
aluminum, and S ounces of water. 
This will attach labels to wood, tin, 
or metal, and will not become moldy. 
Before attaching the label, free tin 
or metal surfaces from grease by 
washing them with a dilute solution 
of caustic soda or potash by means 
of a rag or brush. 

Or dissolve 2^ ounces of glue in 
10 ounces of water. Add 5 ounces 
of rock candy and IJ ounces of gum 
arable. Brush this upon paper while 
lukewarm and allow it to dry. It 
keeps well without sticking, and when 
moistened will adhere firmly to clean 
glass or tin. 

Dextrin Hucilage. — Dextrin and 
gelatin or glue treated with glycerin 
are also used to make mucilage. 

Dissolve dextrin in hot water to 
the consistency of cream or honey. 
Add a few drops of any of the es- 
sential oils or alcohol as a preven- 
tive. 

Dextrin mucilage is used on the 
backs of labels, envelopes, postage 
stamps, etc. To make the kind of 
mucilage used on the United States 
postage stamps, dissolve 2 ounces of 
dextrin in 5 ounces of water. Add 
1 ounce of acetic acid, and when the 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



341 



dextrin is dissolved, add 1 ounce of 
alcohol as a preservative. 

Or use gelatin in place of dextrin 
in the above. 

To Preserve Mucilage. — Mucilage 
composed of gum arable and dextrin 
Is liable to become moldy and to de- 
cay. It may be preserved by the ad- 
dition of alcohol or a few drops of 
any of the essential oils, as oil of 
cloves, lavender, etc.; or a few whole 
cloves, or a few drops of sulphuric 
acid, or carbolic acid or creosote in 
such quantity that the odor is just 
apparent; or corrosive sublimate, 
salicylic acid, or boracic acid. 

If the use of these is objection- 
able, the addition of 10 or 12 grains 
of sulphate of quinine to i pint of 
mucUage is a good and safe preserv- 
ative. Ordinary quinine pills dis- 
solved in hot water may be used for 
this purpose. 

GLUE 

Liquid Glue. — ^Prepared or liqxiid 
glue is a solution of glue with water 
kept liquid by the addition of 1 fluid 
ounce of strong nitric acid to 1 
pound of dry glue. 

Or add 3 ounces of commercial 
acetic acid to 1 ounce of glue. 

Or mix 2 ounces of glue, 3 ounces 
of vinegar, and 2 ounces of water; 
dissolve in a double boiler and add 
1 oimce of alcohol. 

Or dissolve i pound of the best 
pale glue in IJ pints of water and 
add i pint of vinegar. 

Or put any quantity of the best 
glue broken in small pieces in a glass 
fruit jar and cover with 1 part of 
vinegar or dilute acetic acid and 5 
parts of water. Set the jar in a ves- 
sel of hot water, and let stand until 
the glue is melted. In aU these cases 
the glue will dissolve more rapidly 
if allowed to stand a few days in 
cold water, which may be poured off 
when the glue is wanted. 

Or dissolve in a double boiler 8 
ounces of the best pale glue in J pint 
of water. Add slowly, stirring con- 
stantly, i ounce of pure nitric acid. 



Bottle and cork for use. This can 
be used cold for all ordinary pur- 
poses, and does not thicken, decay, 
or become moldy, but is not water- 
proof. This recipe has often been 
sold as a trade secret. 

Other proportions recommended 
are equal parts by weight of glue 
and -water and ^^ their combined 
weight of nitric acid; e. g., melt 10 
ounces of glue in 10 ounces of water 
and add 2 ounces of nitric acid. 

Or dissolve 10 ounces of glue in 20 
ounces of water and add 1 ounce of 
nitric acid. Any of these is a pow- 
erful adhesive which is always ready 
for use. 

Or dissolve 6 ounces of glue in 16 
ounces of water and add 1 ounce of 
hydrochloric acid and IJ ounces of 
sulphate of zinc. This is a perma- 
nent liquid glue which will not spoil 
under ordinary household conditions. 

Or mix 1 ounce of clear gelatin, 1 
ounce of glue, J ounce of alcohol, and 
1 tablespoonful of powdered alum. 
Add 2 ounces of commercial acetic 
acid. Melt in a double boiler. Bot- 
tle and cork for use. 

Flexible Glue. — The addition to 
any of the above liquid glues of one 
fourth by weight of glycerin in pro- 
portion to the amount of glue em- 
ployed, imparts a flexible quality 
which prevents the glue from crack- 
ing and is useful for all flexible sur- 
faces, as leather, paper, bookbinding, 
and the like. 

Photograph Glue. — Mix 3 ounces 
of chloral hydrate and 4i ounces of 
gelatin and dissolve in 13 ounces of 
water. Let stand 2 or 3 days. Use 
for mounting photographs. 

Waterproof Glue. — ^Dissolve in a 
double boiler J pound of best white 
glue in 1 quart of skimmed mUk. 
Stir occasionally until the mixture 
has the consistency of glue. Apply 
with a brush. This hardens to a 
durable waterproof cement. The ad- 
dition of a few drops of nitric acid 
converts this mixture into liquid glue 
or mucilage. 

Portable Glue. — ^Melt in a double 
boiler 5 ounces of glue and 2 ounces 



342 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



of sugar with 8 ounces of water. 
Pour into small molds to dry. Dis- 
solve when required in warm water. 

Or dissolve J pound of best white 
glue in hot water, and strain through 
cheese cloth. Dissolve 2 ounces of 
best isinglass in water to the consist- 
ency of cream. Mix the two solu- 
tions in a glass vessel. Add 1 pound 
of pure brown sugar, put the ves- 
sel in boiling water, boil, and stir 
until it thickens. Pour off into small 
molds to harden. When cold this 
cement is solid and portable. When 
required for use it may be softened 
by holding it over steam fbr a 
moment, or wetting it with the tongue 
and rubbing it on the surfaces to be 
cemented. It is used for cementing 
paper, leather, and many other ma- 
terials, and is doubly valuable on ac- 
count of its convenience, being always 
ready for use. 

Or mix 1 ounce of isinglass, 1 
ounce of parchment, 3 drams of su- 
gar candy, and 3 drams of gum 
tragacanth. Add 1 ouAce of water 
and boil until dissolved. Pour into 
molds for use. This may be wet with 
the tongue or otherwise and rubbed 
on the edges of paper, silk, or leath- 
er to cement them. It is recom- 
mended for sealing letters. 

Isinglass Adhesives. — Pure isin- 
glass, which may be dissolved read- 
ily in water, is a very strong adhe- 
sive. 

Isinglass is an animal tissue ob- 
tained chiefly from the air bladders 
of certain fish. The substance used 
in place of glass in stove windows, 
sometimes improperly called isin- 
glass, is a. stone or mineral, the cor- 
rect name of which is mica. 

Dissolve isinglass in hot water, 
using a double boiler, and apply with 
a brush to glass, china, or marble. 

Or dissolve i ounce of isinglass in 
1 or 3 ounces of alcohol and add a 
tablespoonful of water. Apply to the 
edges of broken glass or similar ar- 
ticles with gentle pressure, and the 
fracture will hardly be noticeable. 

Or isinglass may be dissolved in 
about its own weight of brandy, gin. 



alcohol, or other spirits. This solu- 
tion makes the best cement for glass 
and porcelain. 

Or mix 3 ounces of isinglass and 
1 ounce of gum arabic, cover with 
95 per cent alcohol, cork loosely, and 
put the bottle ia boUing water until 
dissolved. This is the best and most 
delicate cement. Used by opticians, 
jewelers, and others whose trades re- 
quire the finest workmanship. 

Spalding's Liquid Glue.-^Dissolve 
in a double boiler 1 pound of pure 
isinglass in 1 pint of soft water. 
Add slowly, stirring constantly, 3 
ounces of nitric acid. This is a per- 
manent liquid glue, which is always 
ready for use and will not mold or 
putrefy. Bottle and cork to prevent 
evaporation. Used for wood, leath- 
er, paper, and, in the absence of 
special adhesives, for many other 
purposes. 

CEKENT 

Armenian or Diamond Cement. — 
Dissolve to the consistency of thin 
cream 6 lumps of gum mastic, each 
about the size of a large pea or about 
J dram each, in 3 drams of 95 per 
cent alcohol. Fill a 3-ounce vial 
loosely with isinglass broken in small 
pieces and cover with water. When 
the isinglass is slightly softened, 
pour off tlie water, cover with French 
brandy, and add two small lumps 
(10 grains) of gum ammoniacum 
powdered and dissolved in as little 
alcohol as possible. Mix the two 
solutions and dissolve with gentle 
heat in a double boiler. Keep in a 
glass bottle closely stoppered, and 
when required for use set the bottle 
in boiling water. 

This celebrated adhesive has been 
used from time immemorial by the 
jewelers of Turkey, who are mostly 
Armenians. The formula was brought 
to England by a former British con- 
sul, and this preparation has been 
widely used with uniformly good re- 
sults. It is employed in the Orient 
to ornament watch cases and other 
jewelry with diamonds and other 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



precious stones by simply gluing or 
cementing them on. The stone is set 
in silver or gold, the lower part of 
the setting being shaped to corre- 
spond with the part to which it is to 
be fixed. The parts are then warmed 
slightly, the glue is applied, and the 
parts thus cemented never separate. 
This cement will unite polished steel 
with other metals or with glass. It 
is suitable for the finest work, and 
may be regarded as absolutely relia- 
ble. So-called Armenian cement as 
commonly found on the market is an 
inferior preparation and is usually 
sold at an exorbitant price. 

Other proportions recommended for 
Armenian cement are as follows: 
isinglass, 1 ounce; acetic acid, 1 
ounce; water, S ounces; alcohol, 3 
ounces; gum ammoniacum, i oimce; 
gum mastic, 4 ounce. Mix and dis- 
solve with gentle heat. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of isinglass in 
6 ounces of water, and boil down to 
3 ounces. Add IJ ounces of 95 per 
cent alcohol, boil two minutes, strain 
through silk, and add while hot J 
ounce of milky emulsion of ammoni- 
acum and S drams of tincture of 
gum mastic. Where instructions are 
carefully followed, this is a perfect 
cement. 

Resin Cement. — A class of cements 
having valuable waterproof qualities 
is made of the gums amber, mastic, 
rosin, shellac, etc., dissolved in spir- 
its or other solvents, and often com- 
bined for various purposes with oth- 
er adhesives or solids, as plaster of 
Paris, clay, iron filings, etc. Bees- 
wax is often combined with these 
resins to soften them and prevent 
excessive brittleness. 

Shellac Cement for China and 
Glass. — Sealing wax, the principal 
ingredient of which is shellac, or 
powdered shellac itself, may be used 
as a cement by dusting the edges of 
chinaware or other articles with it, 
heating them until the shellac runs, 
and pressing them firmly together. 
Failure to get good results by this 
method is due to lack of sufficient 
heat or the use of too much of the 



material. Or dissolve white shellac 
in alcohol to the consistency of mo- 
lasses, and apply to the edges of 
broken glassware or other glass sur- 
faces to be joined. This sets quickly 
without heat and will stand all ordi- 
nary wear except heat equal to boil- 
ing water. 

Or dissolve 3 ounces of white shel- 
lac and I ounce of gum mastic in 1 
ounce of pure sulphuric ether. Let 
the mixture stand for an hour and 
add 1 pint of 95 per cent alcohol. 
Bottle and cork tightly for use. 
Shake well before using. Heat the 
articles to be mended, apply the ce- 
ment evenly with a soft brush, and 
hold the surface together until it 
sets. 

Or, for so-called Chinese cement, 
put 4 ounces of pale-orange shellac 
in a glass bottle and pour over it 
3 ounces of 95 per cent alcohol, and 
let stand in a warm place until dis- 
solved. This will have the consist- 
ency of molasses. It is suitable for 
wood, glass, jewelry, ivory, and all 
fancy work. It is very strong. 

Shellac Cement for Iiabeling on 
Metal. — Dissolve 1 ounce of pulver- 
ized borax and S ounces of gum shel- 
lac in 1 quart of boiling water. Boll 
until dissolved. Before applying, 
wash the metal with a dilute solu- 
tion of caustic potash or soda and 
wipe dry with a clean cloth. Apply 
the cement warm. For inscriptions, 
size the metallic surface with this 
cement, and write the inscription 
with bronze powder by means of a 
brush. When dry, varnish over the 
bronze. 

Shellac Cement for Rubber. — Soak 
in a glass fruit jar 1 ounce of 
gum shellac in 10 ounces of strong 
aqua ammonia. Let stand 3 or 4 
weeks, or until the shellac is dis- 
solved. Used to cement rubber to 
wood or metal. This cement softens 
the rubber, and after the ammonia 
evaporates, the union will be found 
to be both air-tight and water- 
tight. 

Bosin Cement. — Melt together with 
gentle heat 8 ounces of rosin and 4 



344 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ounces of sulphur, and pour into 
molds for future use. When wanted, 
grind to powder 3 ounces of this 
mixture, and add J ounce of iron 
filings, fine sand, or brick dust. Fill 
the opening in the handle of a knife, 
fork, or other implement with this 
mixture, heat the stock, and force it 
into the handle while hot. 

Or mix 4 ounces of rosin, 1 ounce 
of beeswax, and 1 ounce of fine 
brick dust. This cement is used by 
cutlers. Fill the openings in knife 
handles with this mixture, heat the 
stock of the knife, and force it into 
the handle. When cold it will be 
firmly set. 

Or mix J pound of rosin and 1 
pound of brick dust. Melt with gen- 
tle heat. Used by plumbers. Apply 
while hot to joints in lead pipe. 

Or melt together 5 ounces of black 
rosin and 1 ounce of yellow wax, and 
stir in gradually 1 ounce of red ocher 
or Venetian red in fine, dry powder. 
Melt and apply warm. Used by in- 
strument makers for cementing glass 
to metal. 

Or melt 15 ounces of rosin and 1 
ounce of wax, and add 4 ounces of 
whiting previously heated red hot 
and mixed while warm. Used by 
glass grinders to hold glass, stones, 
etc., while being polished or cut. 

Kosin and Wax Cement or Bottle 
Wax. — Mix 4 ounces of rosin, 4 
ounces of sealing wax, and 3 ounces 
of beeswax; melt together with gen- 
tle heat. When the mixture boils, 
stir it with a candle. 

Or melt equal quantities of bees- 
wax and rosin. Used to seal bottles. 
First insert a cork into the bottle, 
and then dip the cork and neck of 
the bottle in the melted wax. 

Grafting Wax. — Melt together with 
gentle heat 1 pound of rosin, 3 
ounces of tallow, and 5 ounces of 
beeswax. Stir continually while melt- 
ing. Pour the mixture into cold wa- 
ter and let stand until cool. Then 
remove from the water and knead 
thoroughly to a homogeneous mass. 
This wax will last for years. It is 
not soft enough to run in hot 



weather not hard enough to crack in 
winter. 

Amber or Varnish Cement. — ^Dis- 
solve 2 ounces of amber in 3 ounces 
of sulphide of carbon. Apply with 
a brush and hold the surfaces firmly 
together until dry. This cement sets 
almost immediately. 

Whlte-of-egg Cement. — For crock- 
ery, white of egg mixed with pre- 
pared lime, or mixed with the same 
material (ground to powder) as the 
article to be mended, makes a firm 
and durable cement. Apply quickly 
to the edges and hold firmly to- 
gether until the mixture sets. Do 
not mix more than is required, as 
it hardens very quickly and cannot 
be melted. 

Or use for this purpose the white 
of an egg with plaster of Paris or 
prepared chalk or finely powdered 
oyster shells. 

Or pound the lime or other solid 
to a fine powder and sift it through 
cheese cloth. Apply white of egg 
freely to the broken surfaces. Dust 
on the powder and hold the edges 
together firmly until united. 

For glassware, grind a piece of 
flint glass to the finest powder, mix 
with white of egg, and apply. 

To Mend Ironware. — Make a thin 
paste of finely sifted lime with the 
white of an egg and thicken with 
iron filings. Apply to the broken 
edges and hold them firmly together 
until the cement sets. 

Casein Cement. — Grate 4 ounces of 
old cheese in i pint of milk. Let 
stand all day, stirring frequently. 
Stir in 4 ounces of unslaked lime 
reduced to fine powder and sifted 
through cheese cloth. Add the whites 
of 6 eggs and mix all thoroughly 
with an egg beater. This was long 
regarded as a trade secret in Eng- 
land for mending earthenware. 

Or add J pint of vinegar to i pint 
of milk. Separate the curd from 
the whey and mix the whey with the 
whites of 4 or 5 eggs by means of 
an egg beater. Stir in powdered 
and sifted quicklime to the consist- 
ency of a thick paste. This cement 



TkE FAMILY WORKROOM 



345 



is said to be fireproof and water- 
proof. 

Or dissolve casein in a cold satu- 
rated solution of borax. This is a 
substitute for gum arabic and dex- 
trin for envelopes, labels, and the 
like. 

Or, to mend earthenware, place 
the pieces together and tie them 
firmly as possible by means of a 
string. If one piece of a set is 
broken, two other pieces of the same 
set may be placed one on each side 
of the broken article to assist in 
keeping the pieces together, but care 
must be taken to first wind string 
thickly around the broken plate or 
dish so as to separate it slightly 
from the others and permit liquid 
to flow around it. Then put it in a 
boiler or kettle, cover with cold 
sweet skimmed milk, and let stand 
for an hour or more to get an even 
temperature. Bring to a boil with 
gentle heat and let boil ten or fif- 
teen minutes. Remove from the fire 
and let stand over night. Wash in 
warm water and let stand two or 
three days without using. The dish 
will be found to be as strong as 
new. 

Rubber Cement. — The ordinary 
rubber mending tissue is a conven- 
ient article for repairing cloth, and 
also for flexible rubber surfaces, as 
hot-water bottles and the like. Use 
this mending tissue for umbrellas, 
raincoats, and similar articles requir- 
ing a tight waterproof joint. Lay 
the mending tissue over the break or 
tear. Place on the other side a piece 
of the same fabric and press lightly 
with a hot iron. 

To mend a hot-water bottle, heat 
an artificial rubber band or a piece 
of pure rubber with hot iron, as a 
poker, until it becomes sticky, and 
lay it quickly over the hole or crack. 
Let dry before using. Rubber over- 
shoes can be mended in the same 
way. But hot-water bottles will keep 
longer and not require mending if 
emptied, dried, blown up, and corked 
tightly before they are put away. 

Or apply a patch of oiled silk by 



means of mending tissue and a hot 
iron, but do not use the iron hot 
enough to melt or injure the rubber. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of gutta percha 
in i pound of chloroform. Wash the 
parts to be cemented with a dilute 
solution of caustic potash or soda. 
Cover each freely with this gutta- 
percha solution and let dry for half 
an hour. Then warm each surface 
in the flame of a candle and let dry 
under pressure. 

Or shave India rubber with a wet 
knife or shears to thin strings or 
shreds like yarn. Fill a glass fruit 
jar about one fourth full of these 
shreds and fill it up with high-grade 
benzine. Let stand, shaking occa- 
sionally, for four or five days or until 
completely dissolved. Thin with ben- 
zine, or add more rubber if neces.- 
sary to make the mixture of the con- 
sistency of molasses. 

Or dissolve India rubber in highly 
rectified spirits of turpentine. ^ 

Or dissolve 7 grains of India rub- 
ber in 1 ounce of chloroform, and 
add 3 drams of shellac varnish. 

The above are suitable for patch- 
ing boots and shoes, for cementing 
rubber and leather, and either of 
them to wood. Clean the parts to be 
cemented by washing with a dilute 
solution of caustic potash or soda, 
and apply two or three coats to each 
surface. Let dry imder pressure. 

Or melt together equal parts of 
gutta percha and pitch. Apply hot. 

Or melt together J pound of gutta 
percha, 2 ounces of India rubber, 1 
ounce of pitch, i ounce of shellac, 
and 2 ounces of boiled linseed oil. 

Or heat 5 pounds of Venice tur- 
pentine, stir in 8 ounces of shellac 
and 2 ounces of India rubber cut to 
shreds, and stir over gentle heat un- 
til dissolved. When ' dissolved, add 
10 ounces of liquid storax. Do not 
allow the mixture to boil or burn. 
Apply hot. 

The above are suitable for cement- 
ing metals, leather, rubber, or cloth, 
especially flexible surfaces. 

Or cut up 2 ounces of pure India 
rubber in 1 pound of bisulphate of 



346 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



carbon. Shake tintil dissolved. Add 
benzoin until the mixture is of the 
consistency of thick cream. Apply 
to both surfaces, warm the parts, 
and let dry under pressure. 

This cement is used by shoemakers 
to put invisible patches on shoes, and 
is also suitable for mending har- 
nesses, splicing leather straps, and 
the like. 

To apply, shave the edges of the 
leather on a long bevel, lay over them 
a wet cloth, and press with a hot 
iron to take up any grease that may 
be present, but take care not to use 
an iron hot enough to burn or take 
the life out of the leather. Pour the 
cement on both surfaces quite thick- 
ly, and spread with a brush so as to 
fill the pores of the leather. Warm 
the parts over a flame for a few sec- 
onds until the cement becomes sticky, 
or " tacky," apply quickly, and ham- 
mer until firmly set. Keep the ce- 
ment tightly corked in a cool place. 

To fasten leather to iron or steel, 
spread over the metal a thin, hot 
solution of good glue, and soak the 
leather in a warm solution of gall- 
nuts before placing it on the metal. 
If fastened in this way the leather 
will tear before separating. 

SPECIAL ADHESIVES 

Marine Glue. — Dissolve 1 ounce of 
finely divided India rubber in 2J 
pounds of crude naphtha. Let stand 
2 or 3 weeks and shake frequently. 
Add 6 pounds of shellac, melt with 
gentle heat, and stir until evenly dis- 
solved. Pour on a marble or stone 
slab to cool and break in pieces 
like glue for use. When required, 
melt with gentle heat, apply a thin 
coating to the edges to be joined, 
and press firmly together. This ce- 
ment is used in foundries, for calk- 
ing ships, joining blocks of marble 
and granite, j oining wood to iron, etc. 
It is suitable for all heavy rough 
work exposed to the air. 

Or dissolve in separate vessels by 
means of gentle heat 3 ounces of 
India rubber in rectified sulphuric 



ether free from alcohol. Mix the 
two solutions. When cool, bottle and 
cork tightly for use. This is suitable 
for fine work. Both of the above re- 
sist the action of hot and cold water, 
and of most acids and alkalies. 
Wood, leather, and other materials 
cemented by them will part almost 
anywhere except at the place mended. 
Thin this glue with ether and apply 
with a brush along the seams where 
leather is sewed, as the soles of shoes. 
This renders the seam air-tight and 
practically unbreakable. The last two 
cements are probably the strongest 
known. 

To prepare the above in large 
quantities dissolve 1 pound of India 
rubber in 5 gallons of cold naphtha, 
and add to this solution an equal 
weight of shellac. Melt with gentle 
heat and stir while melting until 
thoroughly dissolved. This is ex- 
tremely tenacious and is insoluble. 

Lead and Oil Adhesives. — Linseed 
oil boiled to a varnish with litharge, 
and white lead ground in linseed oil, 
with or without various preparations 
of glue or other ingredients, make a 
class of adhesives which have valu- 
able fireproof and waterproof quali- 
ties. 

Mix 4 ounces of linseed oil with 4 
ounces of slaked lime, and boil until 
stringy. Pour into tin molds and let 
dry indoors or in the shade. This 
will dissolve when wanted like glue. 
It will withstand fire and water. 

Or boil 4 ounces of linseed oil with 
4 ounces of litharge until the mix- 
ture is stringy, and add 8 ounces of 
melted glue of the consistency of mo- 
lasses. Use this cement for leaders, 
the joints of wooden cisterns or 
casks, and similar places. It requires 
3 or 4 days to harden, but renders 
wooden vessels air-tight and water- 
tight. 

Or mix equal quantities by weight 
of linseed oil and litharge. Stir in 
porcelain clay or well-dried pipe clay 
to the consistency of stiff mortar. 
Thin, if desired, with oil or turpen- 
tine. Apply this substance to the 
outside of buildings. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



347 



litharge Cements. — Mix 2 ounces 
of litharge, 1 ounce of unslaked lime, 
and 1 ounce of flint glass. Pulverize 
into fine powder, mix, and when re- 
quired make into a stiff paste with 
boiled linseed oil. 

Or pulverize brick or well-burnt 
clay to ix fine powder. Mix 1 pound 
of litharge with 13 pounds of pul- 
verized brick or clay, and add boiled 
linseed oil to make a stiff mortar. 
Dampen the surface to which this 
is to be applied and use as mor- 
tar. 

The above are suitable for cement- 
ing stone, wood, or iron, filling leaks, 
mending cracks, and other similar 
purposes. 

Or mix powdered litharge with 
glycerin to the consistency of putty. 
Used for fastening metal tops to 
glassware, mending holes in tinware, 
ironware, and the like. 

Or mix 3 ounces of red lead, 3 
ounces of white lead, 3 ounces of man- 
ganese, 3 ounces of silicate of soda, 
and 1 ounce of litharge. Use this 
cement for holes or cracks in steam 
or water pipes. 

Or mix white lead ground in oil 
with powdered red lead to the con- 
sistency of putty. 

Or mix equal weights of red lead 
and white lead with boiled linseed 
oil to the consistency of putty. Ap- 
ply the cement to a washer of cloth 
or canvas and tighten up the joint. 
It dries like stone. This and the last 
are employed by engineers to make 
metallic joints. 

Or use white lead mixed with oil to 
mend broken china and glassware, and 
to fill cracks in roofs, cisterns, and 
the like. 

Plaster-of-Paris Cements. — There 
is a class of cements of which plaster 
of Paris or gypsum is the basis, in 
which the hardening is due to the 
union of the plaster with water, but 
they require the addition of various 
other ingredients to give them ad- 
hesive properties. For the use of gum 
arable with plaster of Paris, see above 
under " Gum Arabic." 

Or mix into a paste plaster of Paris 



and white of egg. Used for mending 
broken glass or china. 

Or substitute oyster shells burnt in 
a stove or open fire and pulverized 
to powder. 

Or melt 2 ounces of rosin and stir 
in 1 ounce of plaster of Paris. 

Or melt 1 ounce each of rosin and 
beeswax, and stir in 1 ounce of plas- 
ter of Paris. 

Or melt 8 ounces of rosin and 1 
ounce of beeswax, and stir in 4 ounces 
of plaster of Paris. Apply these 
cements to alabaster, broken plaster 
casts, marble, porphyry, and similar 
materials. 

Or mix equal quantities of pulver- 
ized alum and plaster of Paris, and 
add sufficient water to make a thin 
paste. 

Or mix plaster of Paris with a 
saturated solution of alum, and bake 
in an iron vessel in an oven until dry. 
Pulverize this mixture to a fine pow- 
der, and when wanted mix to the con- 
sistency of paste with a solution of 1 
ounce of alum in 13 ounces of water. 
This cement is suitable for attaching 
glass to metal. 

Or boil 3 ounces of rosin, 1 ounce 
of caustic soda, and 5 ounces of water. 
Stir in 4J ounces of plaster of Paris. 
This cement is especially recommend- 
ed for fitting the brass woric to kero- 
sene-oil lamps, as it is not affected by 
petroleum products. It is a poor con- 
ductor of heat. 

Or melt alum and use for the same 
purpose while melted. Kerosene does 
not penetrate this. 

Or mix 1 pint each (dry measure) 
of litharge, plaster of Paris, and fine, 
dry white sand, and J pint of finely 
powdered rosin. Make into a, stiff 
paste with boiled linseed oil and ap- 
ply within 13 hours after mixing. 
This cement hardens under water and 
may be used for tanks, aquaria, water 
tanks for animals, and all similar pur- 
poses, as it contains nothing which 
is injurious to animals. Allow this 
cement to set 3 or 4 hours before 
wetting it. 

Ironware Cements. — Mix 5 parts of 
powdered fire clay and 1 part of fine 



348 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Iron filings with enough boiled linseed 
oil to make a paste. This is not suit- 
able for iron exposed to red heat, as 
a stove. 

Or mix equal quantities of sifted 
wood ashes, powdered fire clay, and 
common salt. Moisten to a paste with 
water and fill cracks in stoves and 
other ironware. 

Or use equal quantities of sifted 
wood ashes and common salt mixed 
to a paste with water, but without the 
clay. Let the mixture set before heat- 
ing. 

Or melt 2 ounces of sulphur in an 
iron pan, and stir in 1 ounce of fine 
black lead. Pour on a stone or an 
iron plate to cool. When cold, break 
in small pieces. An iron pot can be 
mended by soldering with this sub- 
stance, using a hot soldering iron. 

Or, to m^nd a small hole, insert a 
copper rivet or one of the brass brads 
used to fasten documents together, 
hammer smoothly on both sides, and 
cover with this cement. 

Or melt 5 ounces of brimstone, and 
stir in 2 ounces of black lead and 3 
ounces of cast-iron filings. Apply to 
leaks in cast-iron tanks, cisterns, etc., 
by drying the leak, heating it by 
means of red-hot iron, and pouring 
the melted cement from a ladle over 
the leak. 

Or mix 4 ounces of barytes and 4 
ounces of fine fire clay to a paste with 
soluble glass or a saturated solation 
of borax. 

Or mix equal quantities of clay and 
powdered glass with soluble glass or 
a saturated solution of borax, and 
apply with a brush to cracks in iron 
stoves or furnaces. 

Or mix 2 pounds of cast-iron filings 
with 1 ounce of sal ammoniac and J 
ounce of flowers of sulphur. Stir in 
enough water to form a paste. Mix 
this preparation in an iron vessel, as 
it becomes very hot from chemical ac- 
tion. Prepare when wanted and ap- 
ply immediately, as it soon sets very 
hard. 

Or mix 8 ounces of steel filings, IJ 
ounces of sal ammoniac, and 1 ounce 
of flowers of sulphur. Preserve this 



mixture in dry form until wanted. 
When required, add 1 ounce of it to 
15 ounces of iron filings, and mix with 
water acidulated with sulphuric acid 
to form a paste. Apply this cement 
to the joints of iron pipe and for 
similar purposes. Clean surfaces to 
be cemented with nitric or strong sul- 
phuric acid. Use this cement for all 
iron and steel work. 

Or mix 10 ounces of powdered fire 
clay, 4 ounces of fresh iron filings free 
from rust, 2 ounces of peroxide of 
manganese, 1 ounce of sea salt, and 1 
ounce of borax. Powder finely, mix 
to a paste with water, and apply im- 
mediately. Gradually bring the parts 
to a white heat. This cement is both 
fireproof and waterproof. 

Or mix equal quantities of sifted 
peroxide of manganese and powdered 
zinc white, and make into a thin paste 
with soluble glass. Apply immedi- 
ately. 

Or mix 5 ounces of fire clay, 3 
ounces of manganese, and 3 ounces of 
silicate of soda with water to the con- 
sistency of putty. Used to mend holes 
in castings and for similar purposes. 

Or mix 10 ounces of clay, 3 ounces 
of manganese, 2 ounces of silicate of 
soda, and J ounce of asbestos. Grind 
to powder in a mortar, mix with water 
to make a. paste, and use as mortar 
for lining stoves. 

Compound Glues. — The number of 
pastes, glues, and cements that can be 
compounded by mixing various pro- 
portions of the above substances is, 
of course, numberless, but the follow- 
ing preparations are especially recom- 
mended as having given satisfaction: 

For liquid glue, dissolve in a double 
boiler 8 ounces of white glue and 2 
ounces of dry white lead in 1 pint of 
soft water. When dissolved, add 2 
ounces of alcohol and stir briskly. 
Remove from the fire and bottle while 
hot. 

Or dissolve fn a double boiler 8 
ounces of best white glue and S ounces 
of gum arable in 1 pint of soft water. 
Add slowly 5 ounces of strong nitric 
acid, stirring constantly, and allow to 
cool. Bottle and cork tightly, put- 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



349 



ting a few cloves in each bottle as a 
preservative. 

On dissolve with gentle heat in a 
double boiler 1 pound of best white 
glue and 2 ounces of isinglass in 1 
quart of soft water. Stir in 6 ounces 
of white lead. Add 2 ounces of white 
varnish dissolved in J pint of alcohol, 
mixing the whole with gentle heat. 
This is an heroic mixture which ought 
to be capable of withstanding almost 
anything. 

Or mix equal quantities of common 
glue and isinglass, and cover with al- 
cohol. Let stand twenty-four hours. 
Melt the whole with gentle heat. 

Compound Marine Glue. — Dissolve 
i ounce of sandarac and J ounce of 
mastic in 8 fluid ounces of 95 per 
cent alcohol. Add J ounce of oil of 
turpentine. Prepare separately in a 
double boiler a solution of 1 ounce 
of isinglass and 3 ounces of best 
white glue in 1 pint of water. Mix 
the two solutions and strain while very 
hot through cheese cloth. This glue 
is a quick dryer and hardens under 
water. 

Compound Cements. — ^Dissolve in a 
double boiler 8 ounces of isinglass in 
1 pint of soft water. Stir in 3 ounces 
of dry white lead and boil until 
stringy. Cool slightly, and add 3 
ounces of alcohol. Bottle while warm 
and cork tightly. 

Or mix equal quantities of best white 
glue and isinglass broken fine, and 
cover with alcohol. Let stand twenty- 
four hours. Melt with gentle heat in 
a double boiler and stir in sufficient 
powdered chalk to make a soft ce- 
ment. 

Or dissolve 10 grains of mastic in 3 
drams of alcohol. Add 1 ounce of 
isinglass dissolved in 1 ounce of 
brandy and 10 grains of gum am- 
moniac. Dissolve with gentle heat; 
bottle and cork tightly. Set the bot- 
tle in hot water when wanted. 

Or dissolve J ounce of isinglass and 
1 ounce of white glue in 15 ounces of 
water. Strain through cheese cloth 
and evaporate with gentle heat to 3 
ounces. Add 16 grains of mastic dis- 
solved in i ounce of alcohol and 1 



ounce of zinc white. Shake well be- 
fore using. 

Special Adhesives — Wood Cement. 
— Mix 1 ounce of lime and 2 ounces 
of rye meal with boiled linseed oil to 
a stiff paste. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of glue in 16 
ounces of water, and stir in sawdust 
or prepared chalk or both to make a 
paste. 

Or thicken oil varnish with equal 
parts of white lead, red lead, litharge, 
and powdered chalk. Use these ce- 
ments to fill cracks and defects in 
woodwork before painting. 

Or mix 2 ounces of beeswax, 2 
ounces of shellac, and 1 ounce of In- 
dian red, and color with yellow ocher 
to the shade required. Use this cement 
to fill cracks, cover nail heads, and 
the like in mahogany furniture. 

Cement for Glass. — Dissolve best 
white glue in as little water as possi- 
ble, and add by bulk one half as much 
linseed oil varnish and one fourth as 
much pure turpentine. Boil together 
in a double boiler closely covered to 
keep in the steam. Apply to glass and 
metal joints, holding the two sur- 
faces together with a vise if conven- 
ient or under weights for forty-eight 
hours until the cement sets. 

Or, for the same purpose, melt to- 
gether 5 ounces of rosin, 1 ounce of 
beeswax, 1 ounce of red ocher, and i 
tablespoonful of gypsum. 

Leather Cement. — Dissolve in a 
double boiler 1 ounce of pure isin- 
glass in J pint of ale. Add 2 ounces 
of common glue and dissolve with gen- 
tle heat. Stir in 1 ounce of boiled lin- 
seed oil until well mixed. This mix- 
ture will have the texture of India 
rubber. Bottle and cork tightly ,for 
future use. Dilute when required with 
fresh ale, and after shaving the sur- 
faces of the leather apply hot with 
a brush to harness and other belts, 
bands, etc. Let stand in a vise or 
under pressure until it sets. This is 
waterproof and a very powerful ad- 
hesive. 

Or dissolve in a double boiler equal 
quantities of glue and isinglass in 
water. Bring to a boil and stir in 



350 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



pure tannin until tiie mixture assumes 
tlie appearance of white of egg. Siiave 
the leather, rub the edges with sand- 
paper to roughen them, and apply the 
cement while hot. It will make a 
stronger joint if the surface is first 
moistened with a solution of gallnuts. 
A j oint made' of this cement will be 
as strong as any other part of the 
leather. 

Or, to fasten leather and other 
fibrous material to metals, dissolve 
glue in hot vinegar and add one 
third by volume of hot white pine 
pitch. 

Collodion Cement. — Collodion is a 
mixture of 1 ounce of gun cotton 
and 1 ounce of alcohol in about 1 
pound of ether. When used as a ce- 
ment or varnish to prevent rust or 
for other purposes, it easUy cracks and 
peels. To prevent this, add to each 
18 ounces of collodion 4 ounces of 
Venice turpentine and 2 ounces of 
castor oil. 

Or, when using collodion for sur- 
gical purposes to dress cuts, etc., add 
to the ordinary collodion one eighth 
its volume of glycerin. This makes 
a varnish which adheres to the skin, 
but is elastic, and hence does not 
crack or crease. 

Coppersmith's Cement. — Thicken 
fresh beef blood with powdered quick- 
lime. Mix only as required and ap- 
ply at once, as it sets rapidly. This 
is suitable for mending copper boil- 
ers, rivets, leaks in copper pipes, fau- 
cets, and the like. It is both cheap 
and durable. 

Acid-proof Cement. — Mix in a 
double boiler IJ pounds of rosin, 4 
ounces of dry red ocher, 3 ounces 
of plaster of Paris, and 1 ounce of 
linseed oil. Dissolve with gentle 
heat. Mix and apply while warm. 
Use this for cementing troughs to 
hold acid. It will stand boiling sul- 
phuric acid. 

Parchment Glue. — Boil in a double 
boiler 1 pound of parchment in 6 
quarts of water down to 1 quart. 
Strain through cheese cloth to remove 
the sediment, and with gentle heat 
evaporate the liquid slowly to the con- 



sistency of glue. Bottle and cork 
tightly for use. Use this for fine 
work with delicate white paper. , 

Peach-tree Gum. — The gum which 
exudes from peach trees, when dis- 
solved in alcohol and thinned with 
water, is a suitable cement for mend- 
ing broken glassware, and is a good 
substitute for gum arable, Senegal, 
and tlie Uke. 

To Mend Glass and China. — To 
take off grease or varnish, wash the 
pieces in ammonia and water, or ap- 
ply alcohol or ether to the edges to be 
joined, but take care not to smooth 
off irregularities, as the rougher the 
surface the better the cement will 
hold. When the pieces are numerous 
it is best to unite them one at a time 
and let that harden before another is 
added. Select a quick-drying cement, 
heat the pieces, apply a thin coating 
of the cement to both surfaces, no 
more than wiU be partially absorbed, 
and bring the edges together before 
the cement sets. Hold them firmly 
until it hardens. After all the pieces 
have been thus united, let the article 
stand for several days or weeks be- 
fore using. 

Glue for Gilding. — Cut up rabbit 
skins as fine as possible, and boil them 
in water until the liquor on cooling 
is a firm gelatinous mass. Dilute with 
water, bring to a boil, and strain 
through a wire sieve. 

Dissolve 1 part of alum and 3 parts 
of sulphate of zinc in boiling water, 
pour into the clear mixture, stir the 
whole while hot, and strain into a 
mold until it cools and jells. The 
mass will now be thick enough to re- 
move from the mold and dry in the 
open air or with gentle heat. 

Colored Cement. — To make a col- 
ored cement suitable for uniting col- 
ored glass or china, mix soluble glass 
with fine chalk and stir in the desired 
coloring matter. This cement requires 
six or eight hours to set. The follow- 
ing coloring matters are recommended 
for this purpose: 

For black, sifted sulphide of an- 
timony. This can be burnished to a 
fine metallic luster. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



S51 



For gray black, fine iron dust. 

For gray, zinc dust. This is a 
suitable cement for zinc castings. It 
also adheres to metals, stone, or 
wood. 

For bright green, carbonate of cop- 
per. 

For dark green, sesquioxide of 
chromium. 

For blue, Thenard's blue. 

For yellow, litharge. 

For bright red, cinnabar. 

For violet, red carmine. 



Soluble glass with chalk alone makes 
a white cement. 

Equal quantities of sulphide of an- 
timony and iron dust with soluble 
glass, a black cement. 

Equal q«antities of zinc dust and 
Iron, a dark-gray cement. 

Soluble glass can be kept in liquid 
form if covered tightly to exclude the 
air. Hence it is better to mix these 
cements only when wanted, and to 
keep the materials at hand for use 
when required. 



CHAPTER XIII 

THE FAMILY WORKROOM 
Part Two — Paints and Varnishes 



USES OF PAINT— SPECIFICATIONS FOR PAINTING— CARE OF PAINTS 
AND BRUSHES-SPECIAL KINDS OF PAINT— VARNISHING— FIXED- 
OIL VARNISHES— SPIRIT OR LAC VARNISHES— VOLATILE-OIL 
VARNISHES— SPECIAL VARNISHES-SEALING WAX— OII5, LUB- 
RICATORS, ETC.- FURNITURE POLISH 



Paint, including painting and the 
care of paints, is an important sub- 
ject. Both the inner and outer walls 
and the floors of houses and most 
articles of furniture are painted. 
Hence a knowledge of the nature 
and properties of paint, both before 
and after its application, enables it 
to be put to a thousand practical uses 
in the household. The uses of paint 
are twofold, i. e., to protect the wood 
and other materials to which it is 
applied, and also to decorate them. 
The ingredients of paint are of two 
sorts: the pigments or coloring mat- 
ter, chosen mostly for decoration ; and 
the vehicle chosen to hold the color- 
ing matter in suspension, and also, 
when desired, to furnish the requisite 
protection. 

In mixing paints the various pig- 
ments are chosen according to the col- 
or wanted, and the different vehicles 
according to the use to which the 
paint is to be put. 

Linseed Oil for Paints.^The best 
vehicle for paints used to protect 
woodwork and other surfaces from 
moisture and decay is linseed oil. This 
is one of the so-called drying oils 
which, on exposure to the air, absorb 
oxygen and form a resinous varnish 
that closes the pores and excludes the 
agents of destruction from all sur- 
faces to which it is applied. Thus it 



holds the pigments in a firm water- 
proof varnish. 

Linseed oil is of two sorts: raw and 
boiled. The raw oil is of two grades: 
the cold-drawn and the hot-pressed 
or ordinary quality. Raw linseed oil 
dries slowly, passing through a gum- 
my or sticky stage before acquiring a 
hard, resinous surface. The object of 
boiling this oil with oxide of lead, 
peroxide of manganese, and borate 
or acetate of manganese is to cause 
it to dry more quickly. Boiling gives 
the oil a dark or high color. The raw 
oil is obtained from flaxseed by crush- 
ing the seed under great hydraulic 
pressure. When the seed is not heat- 
ed, the oil is said to be cold-pressed 
or cold-drawn, and is of a light or 
pale color, but when the crushed seed 
is heated and pressed hot, the oil is 
darker. Much more oil can be ex- 
tracted from the same quantity of 
seed by hot pressure. The cold-drawn 
oil is therefore more expensive, but it 
is of a better quality. 

Pigments for Paint. — The pigments 
or coloring matter used in paints are 
prepared by grinding them in a mill 
and mixing them with a small quan- 
tity of raw linseed oil. They come in 
small packages and are prepared for 
use by mixing them with an addition- 
al quantity of raw or boiled linseed 
oil and one or more colored pigments. 



3S2 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



353 



which are mixed together to produce 
any desired shade. 

Thinners for Paints. — The various 
pigments mixed with oil alone would 
make too thick a coating; hence other 
ingredients known as thinners are em- 
ployed to dilute them. These are oil 
of turpentine and benzine, which mix 
freely with linseed oil and various 
pigments, and reduce them to any de- 
sired consistency. 

Dryers for Paints. — Even boiled 
linseed oil does not dry quickly enough; 
hence to hasten the union of oxygen 
with the paint, which transforms it 
into a dry, hard, resinous substance, 
it is usual to mix paints vrith certain 
substances known as dryers. Among 
these are sugar (acetate) of lead, red 
lead, verdigris, binoxide of manganese, 
sulphate of zinc, etc. The most pow- 
erful dryer is boric manganese, even 
the -f uiajr part being enough to greatly 
hasten the drying of linseed oil. These 
and other dryers come ground in oil 
ready to mix with paint. 

Keady-made Paints. — The materials 
used for paints for home use must be 
kept separate and not mixed until the 
paint is about to be used. Or, if 
mixed in advance, the paint must be 
covered with water and kept from the 
air. Otherwise the thinner will evapo- 
rate, the pigment will settle to the 
bottom, and the oil will become thick 
and ropy, forming a hard skin over 
the top which cannot be dissolved. 
Hence paints are now mixed in fac- 
tories on a large scale by a process 
which forms an emulsion or perma- 
nent mixture of the pigment and the 
oil, and these can be had in any size 
cans, the contents of which are al- 
ways ready for use. However, any- 
one can obtain the necessary ingredi- 
ents, pigment, oils, thinner, and dryer, 
and mix paints for home use at less 
cost usually than he would have to 
pay for the ready-made article, and 
with the further advantage of know- 
ing precisely the nature and purity of 
all the ingredients employed. 

Water-color Faints. — Paints for in- 
terior work, walls, ceilings, pictures, 
maps, and the like, are sometimes pre- 



pared without oil by using as a. vehi- 
cle glue or gum dissolved in water. 
After the water evaporates, the glue 
or gum is left, and this causes the 
pigments to adhere to the surface. 
The ingredients must not be mixed 
until ready for use, as glue or gum 
will not keep in solution for any length 
of time. 

Calcimine is a paint of this char- 
acter, being a mixture of prepared 
chalk with a solution of glue and 
various colored pigments. 

Water colors can also be obtained 
in the form of cakes consisting of 
pigments and gum in solid form, 
which may be liquefied by dissolving 
in water or by rubbing them with a 
wet brush. 

Paints — Other Ingredients. — Be- 
sides linseed oil, for finer kinds of 
work, as the preparation of artist's 
colors, other oils, as nut and poppy 
oils, are sometimes used. 

Miscellaneous Ingredients. — Solu- 
ble glass, naphthas, tars, lime, and 
various other materials are sometimes 
employed for cheap paints or for 
special purposes. Poisonous sub- 
stances are sometimes mixed with the 
paint used about salt water to pre- 
vent marine plants and animals from 
fastening to painted surfaces, and 
phosphorus is sometimes added when 
a luminous paint is desired. 

USES OF FAINT 

ftuantity of Faint to Use. — To esti- 
mate the quantity of paint required, 
divide the number of square feet of 
surface by 300. The quotient is the 
number of gallons of paint required 
to give two coats. 

Or divide the number of square feet 
of surface by 18. The quotient is the 
number of pounds of pure ground 
white lead required to give three 
coats. 

Another rule is that new woodwork 
requires about 1 pound of paint to 
the square yard for three coats. 

But the rules vary according to the 
nature of the surface and its condi- 
tion, the temperature, and the like. 



354 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Old woodwork, especially if iinpaint- 
ed or if the paint has been allowed 
to wear off, will absorb more paint 
than new wood. Some kinds of wood 
take more peiint than others, and sur- 
faces of stone, brick, or metal may 
take less than wood. 

Bules for House Fainting. — The 
best time to paint houses, barns, and 
other surfaces exposed to the sun is 
in winter when the ground is frozen. 
In summer the heat of the sun opens 
the pores of wood and other materials, 
which causes the oil to soak in, leav- 
ing the pigments exposed on the sur- 
face. This may be prevented by first 
going over the surface with raw oil; 
but paint applied when the surface 
is contracted by cold in winter dries 
slowly, forms a hard, tough coat like 
glass, and wiU last twice as long as 
if applied at any other time of the 
year. 

Another advantage of painting in 
cold weather is the absence of flies 
and other insects, and also the fact 
that there is much less dust. Paint- 
ing may, of course, be done indoors 
at any time of the year, but it must 
be understood that a hot surface will 
absorb more paint than a cold one 
and should be first primed with a 
coat of raw linseed oil. 

Buy, if possible, the best white lead 
and other pigments and the best oil, 
and mix the paint yourself. 

To paint new wood for the first 
time requires four or five operations 
— knotting, priming, and two or three 
coats of paint. Old woodwork pre- 
viously painted requires washing to 
remove the grease, and may require 
burning or other process to remove 
the paint, as well as refinishing the 
surface before the priming and fresh 
coats of paint are laid on. 

Or it may be sufficient to wash the 
surface to remove all grease spots, 
and to lay a fresh coat over the old 
paint. 

Keep up the paint on all surfaces 
that require painting. It is much 
cheaper after the original foundation 
has been laid to go over the wood- 
work with a thin coat of paint quite 



frequently, than to wait until the paint 
is all worn off in spots and the wood- 
work underneath is affected with dry 
rot. 

Recoat standing woodwork at least 
once in two years, and go over win- 
dow sills and sashes as often as they 
require it. 

Prepare paint to suit the purpose 
for which it is intended. Do not at- 
tempt to make one kind of paint serve 
every purpose. One kind of paint is 
required for the outside of a house 
and another for the inside; and there 
are special paints for iron, stone, 
brick, and other surfaces. 

Knotting. — The knots in pine 
boards and other resinous woods con- 
tain turpentine, and unless they are 
" kiUed " the turpentine will ooze 
out and destroy the paint. Hence to 
kiU knots apply with a brush a mix- 
ture of red and white lead ground 
with water and mixed with a strong 
glue size consisting of 2 to 4 ounces 
of glue to 1 gallon of water. Apply 
while warm to the knots with a 
brush. Follow with a second coat 
composed of 3 parts of white lead 
ground in oil and 1 part of red 
lead or litharge. When bone-dry, 
rub down with pumice stone. 

Priming. — After knotting, go over 
the surface with a very thin coat of 
priming, which consists of white lead 
with a very small quantity of dryer, 
as red lead or litharge, mixed with 
raw linseed oil. Use 1 pound of this 
priming for 18 or 20 square yards. 
Have no more oil than is necessary 
to make the lead work readily, but 
apply repeatedly and work the coat- 
ing out thin with a brush. 

Do not use a lot of thin priming. 

First Coat. — When the priming is 
dry, put on a second coat. The work 
is now said to be " primed and one 
coat," and is ready for painting, 
which requires one or two coats 
more. 

Second Coat. — Fill up all nail holes 
and the like, and lay on a regular 
coat of the desired color. Let dry 
for two or three days. 

Third Coat.— FinaUy add the third 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



355. 



coat, if desired, of the same charac- 
ter as the second coat. 

Or the third coat may be thin, 
with a larger proportion of turpen- 
tine than the second coat, giving the 
paint a dull surface and a delicate 
bloom. This is called flatting. 

Fainting Woodwork Indoors. — 
Careful landlords go over the inside 
woodwork of a house frequently with 
paint and varnish. This preserves 
the woodwork and saves labor, 
strength, and time. It is not econ- 
omy to wait until the paint or var- 
nish cracks or wears off. The more 
frequently it is painted the longer 
the woodwork lasts, and the easier 
it is to keep in good order. 

If there is grease or soap on the 
woodwork the paint will not adhere. 
Hence, before painting, the surface 
should be cleaned by scrubbing with 
ammonia water or water containing 
kerosene or sal soda, and rinsed off 
thoroughly. 

Apply a second coat, if necessary, 
to get a smooth, hard surface. 

Window Sills and Sashes. — These 
should be " drawn " or painted fre- 
quently, as the rain outside and the 
steam inside collect on the glass and 
settle about the casings, causing 
them to rot unless kept in good order 
by fresh paint and varnish. If putty 
cracks or shows signs of decaying, it 
should be removed and new putty 
applied before painting. 

To Apply Paint. — The proper 
stroke in painting is short, say 8 or 
10 inches. The brush should strike 
the surface nearly at right angles 
and in the middle of the stroke; that 
is to say, the painter deposits the 
added load 4 or S inches in advance 
of the unpainted surface, and not at 
the end of the last stroke, and works 
the color back and forth with the 
brush. 

The brush should be deep, so as to 
take up the paint through the hairs, 
and not merely on their ends, and 
the surface should be wiped so that 
it will not drip before using. But 
a brush should not be wiped on a 
cutting edge, or the bristles will be 



split and tend to curl backward. 
Hence paint should be taken from a 
pail or can having a wire fastened 
across the top or a smooth edge 
turned over to wipe the brush on. 

SFECIFIGATIOirS FOB FAINTIITG 

White lead — Specifications for 
Hew Work Outside. — The following 
specifications were very carefully pre- 
pared by an architect of great experi- 
ence for a leading manufacturer of 
pure white lead, and may be regarded 
as absolutely reliable: 

Before Painting. — All woodwork 
must be thoroughly dry before any 
paint is applied. No painting is to 
be done when rain or snow is falling, 
or until after the dew or moisture 
which may be on the surface has 
completely disappeared. 

Knot Killing. — Immediately after 
the woodwork is in place, all knots 
and sappy streaks shall be varnished 
with pure grain alcohol orange shel- 
lac varnish (knot killer). 

It is very important that only the 
best grain alcohol shellac should be 
used, as preparations of wood alco- 
hol (deadly poisonous), cheap shel- 
lacs, rosin, etc., are dangerous to 
health and apt to cause the knots to 
turn yellow after the work is com- 
pleted, thus spoiling the appearance 
of the work. 

Priming Coat. — One hundred 
pounds of pure white lead; 6 to 7 gal- 
lons of pure raw linseed oil; 1 gallon 
of pure turpentine; IJ pints of pure 
turpentine japan. 

On white pine, poplar, and bass- 
wood (which more readily absorb oil) 
use 7 gallons of linseed oil. 

On yellow pine, spruce, and hem- 
lock use 6 gallons of linseed oil. 

In winter and damp weather from 
J pint to i pint additional turpen- 
tine japan should be used. 

A range of from 6 to 7 gallons of 
linseed oil has been specified to allow 
room for the painter's judgment; 
there may be circumstances where as 
much as 8 gallons of linseed oil to 
100 pounds of white lead may be used 



356 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



to advantage, but they are rare, and 
as a rule 7 gallons may be taken as 
a safe maximum. 

The painter may in some special 
cases find it advisable in the priming 
coat to increase the quantity of tur- 
pentine from i gallon to 1 gallon, 
but where this is done a correspond- 
ing decrease should be made in the 
specified amount of linseed oil. 

Priming coats should be thin, and 
well brushed out, but it is a mistake 
to have them too thin. 

Putty. — After the priming coat is 
thoroughly dry, putty up all nail 
holes, dents, cracks, and other defects 
in the surface with a pure linseed 
oil putty composed of equal parts of 
white lead and whiting. 

Nearly all the putty sold at pres- 
ent is made of other oils than lin- 
seed (chiefly products of petroleum) 
and ground cliffstone sand. The use 
of such putty is the explanation of 
the yellow nail holes and cracks so 
often marring the appearance of 
what is otherwise good work. 

The addition of 1 part of powdered 
litharge to 5 parts each of white 
lead and whiting in the composition 
of the white lead putty above speci- 
fied is permissible and, where conven- 
ient, advised. 

The addition of the litharge assists 
the drying and hardening of the 
putty. 

Second Coat. — One hundred pounds 
of pure white lead; 4 to 5 gallons of 
pure raw linseed oil; J gallon of pure 
turpentine; 1 pint of pure turpentine 
j apan. 

In winter and damp weather from 
J pint to i pint additional turpen- 
tine japan should be used. 

Third Coat. — One hundred pounds 
of pure white lead; 4 to 4 J gallons of 
pure raw linseed oil; J gallon of pure 
turpentine; 1 pint of pure turpentine 
j apan. 

In winter and damp weather from 
i pint to i pint additional turpen- 
tine japan should be used. 

Specifloations for New Work la- 
side. — Before Painting. — As above. 

Knot Killing. — As above. 



Priming Coat. — One hundred 
pounds of pure white lead; 6 to 6 gal- 
lons of pure raw linseed oil; 2 gallons 
of pure turpentine; IJ pints of pure 
white turpentine japan. 

On white pine, poplar, and bass- 
wood (which more readily absorb 
oil) use 6 gallons of linseed oil. 

On yellow pine, spruce, and hem- 
lock use 5 gallons of linseed oil. 

In winter and damp weather from 
i pint to i pint additional turpen- 
tine japan should be used. 

A range of from 5 to 6 gallons of 
linseed oil has been specified to allow 
room for the painter's judgment; 
there may be circumstances where as 
much as 7 gallons of linseed oil to 
100 pounds of white lead may be used 
to advantage, but they are rare, and 
as a rule 6 gallons may be taken as 
a safe maximum. 

The painter may in some special 
cases find it advisable in the priming 
coat to increase the quantity of tur- 
pentine from i gallon to 1 gallon, 
but where this is done a correspond- 
ing decrease should be made in the 
specified amount of linseed oil. 

Priming coats should be thin, and 
well brushed out, but it is a mistake 
to have them too thin. 

Putty. — As above. 

Second Coat — Oloss Finish. — One 
hundred pounds of pure white lead; 4 
to 6 gallons of pure raw linseed oil; J 
gallon of pure turpentine; 1 pint of 
pure turpentine white dryer. 

Third Coat — Oloss Finish. — One 
hundred pounds of pure white lead; 
4 to 4J gallons of pure raw linseed 
oil; i gallon of pure turpentine; 1 
pint of pure turpentine white dryer. 

Finishing Coat — Flat. — One hun- 
dred pounds of pure white lead; J 
gallon of pure raw linseed oil; 3 to 
3 J gallons of pure turpentine; 1 pint 
of pure turpentine white dryer. 

Finishing Coat — Eggshell Gloss. 
— One hundred pounds of pure white 
lead; 1 gallon of pure raw linseed oil; 
2 gallons of pure turpentine; 1 pint 
of pure turpentine white dryer. 

Specifications for Old Work Out- 
side. — Before Painting. — As above. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



357 



Preparation of Surface. — All loose 
paint, scales, dirt, and dust must 
be entirely removed. If there are 
scales, a wire brush should be used. 
Where window frames, sashes, doors, 
piazzas, etc., show cracks or scales, a 
paint burner or patent paint remov- 
er must be used to make the surface 
ready for painting. 

If new paint is applied over a sur- 
face that has cracked or scaled, a 
good job is impossible, as the rough 
surface will show through. 

If the old coat is pure white lead, 
then there will be no scales or cracks, 
and gently sandpapering with No. i 
to No. 1 sandpaper, followed by a 
good dusting, will put the surface in 
good condition for repainting. 

First or Priming Coat. — One hun- 
dred pounds of pure white lead; 4 to 
5 gallons of pure raw linseed oil; 1 
gallon of pure turpentine; 14 pints 
of pure turpentine japan. 

In winter and damp weather from 
J pint to i pint additional turpentine 
japan should be used. 

Putty. — As above. 

Second or Finishing Coat. — One 
hundred pounds of pure white lead ; 4 
to 4J gallons of pure raw linseed oil; 
I gallon of pure turpentine; IJ pints 
of pure turpentine japan. 

In winter and damp weather from 
I pint to i pint additional turpen- 
tine japan should be used. 

Specifications for Old Work In- 
side. — Preparation of Surface. — As 
above. 

Priming. — One hundred pounds of 
pure white lead; 1 gallon of pure raw 
linseed oil; 2 gallons of pure turpen- 
tine; 14 pints of pure white turpen- 
tine japan. 

The painter may in some special 
cases find it advisable in the prim- 
ing coat to increase the quantity of 
turpentine from i gallon to 1 gallon, 
but where this is done a correspond- 
ing decrease should be made in the 
specified amount of linseed oil. 

Priming coats should be thin, and 
well brushed out, but it is a mistake 
to have them too thin. 

Putty. — As above. 



Finishing Coat — Oloss. — One hun- 
dred pounds of pure white lead; 4 to 
5 gallons of pure raw linseed oil ; 4 
gallon of pure turpentine; 1 pint of 
pure turpentine white dryer. 

Finishing Coat — Plat. — One hun- 
dred pounds of pui-e white lead; 4 
gallon of pure raw linseed oil; 3 to 
24 gallons of pure turpentine; 1 pint 
of pure turpentine white dryer. 

Finishing Coat — Eggshell Oloss. — 
One hundred pounds of pure white 
lead ; 1 gallon of pure raw linseed oil ; 
2 gallons of pure turpentine; 1 pint 
of pure turpentine white dryer. 

If painting is done white or light 
over a previous dark finish, three 
coats may be necessary. In such 
case put on a second coat mixed 
similar to first coat and finish as 
specified. 

Specifications for Fainting Brick, 
Stucco, and Concrete. — Brickwork. — 
If any mortar has become loose and 
washed out between the bricks, all 
such damaged places shall be repoint- 
ed with mortar or Portland cement, 
before any paint is applied. After 
priming, correct small defects in sur- 
face with putty. 

New brickwork shall not be primed 
except when thoroughly dry. At least 
two or three days of dry, clear weath- 
er shall precede painting. No paint- 
ing shall be done in cold weather. 

Stucco or Concrete Work. — Stucco 
or concrete work shall be allowed to 
dry and set at least two months be- 
fore paint is applied. 

The longer concrete work is allowed 
to dry out before painting, the better, 
even up to one year. If a longer time 
is available, specify it instead of the 
time given above. 

Formulas. — The paint for all brick, 
stucco, or concrete shall be mixed ac- 
cording to the following formulas: 

Priming Coat. — One hundred pounds 
of white lead; 9 gallons of pure 
boiled linseed oil (or 9 gallons of pure 
raw linseed oil and I4 pints of tur- 
pentine dryer) ; 1 gallon of turpentine. 

Body Coat. — One hundred pounds 
of pure white lead; 4 gallons of pure 
linseed oil, one third boiled, two thirds 



358 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



raw (or 4 gallons of pure raw linseed 
oil and 1 pint of turpentine dryer). 

Finishing Coat. — One hundred 
pounds of pure white lead; 3J gallons 
of pure linseed oil, one third boiled, 
two thirds raw (or 3J gallons of pure 
raw linseed oil and 1 pint of turpen- 
tine dryer) ; 1 pint of turpentine. 

Strictly kettle-boiled linseed oil 
should be used as specified whenever 
possible, especially on stucco and con- 
crete, because it is less liable than raw 
oil to degenerate under the peculiar 
influence of lime, cement, etc. If 
strictly kettle-boiled oil is not avail- 
able, use the alternative specifications 
for raw oil and a, dryer. 

Specifications for Fainting Steel 
and Ironwork. — Before erection. — 
Before it leaves the shops, all steel 
and ironwork shall be thoroughly 
cleaned of all mill scale, dirt, rust, 
and oil, and receive one coat of red 
lead paint mixed according to the for- 
mula given below. Surfaces which will 
be inaccessible after structure is erect- 
ed shall receive two coats of this paint 
before erection. 

Formula. — Pure dry red lead, 30 to 
33 pounds ; pure raw linseed oil, 1 gal- 
lon. 

These ingredients shall be thor- 
oughly mixed no longer than twenty- 
four hours before being used. 

After Erection. — AU structural 
ironwork shall be cleaned after erec- 
tion and all abrasions in first coat of 
paint brushed clean with a stiff wire 
brush and repainted. All surfaces 
shall then receive one additional coat 
of red lead paint prepared according 
to above formula. 

AU pipes, including automatic 
sprinklers, steam and hot-water radi- 
ators, conducting pipes, and interiorly 
exposed structural metal work shall 
receive two coats as above. Fire es- 
capes, smokestacks, gutters, down 
spouts, and all other interior metal 
work shall receive three coats as above 
with 1 pound of pure lampblack, 
ground in oil, added to every 28 
pounds of red lead used in the third 
coat. 

Subsequent coats on exposed metal 



work shall be of strictly pure white 
lead and linseed oil, tinted according 
to the color scheme employed in the 
building. 

Paint shall not be applied until pre- 
viously applied paint is thoroughly dry. 

No painting shall be done in wet or 
freezing weather. 

Specifications for Fainting Hetal 
Hoofs, Cornices, etc. — New Work. — 
AU new metal, tin, galvanized iron, 
iron, or steel, used for roofing, cor- 
nices, valleys, gutters, down spouts, 
iron raUings, gratings, etc., shaU be 
painted according to the foUowing 
specifications : 

Before Painting. — AU surfaces shaU 
be carefuUy cleaned by scrubbing with 
sand soap and water, and thoroughly 
dried, before paint is applied. Only 
when this is done wiU the paint ad- 
here properly to the metal. This is 
very important. 

Formula. — Pure dry red lead, 30 
pounds; pure boiled linseed oil, J gal- 
lon; pure raw Unseed oil, | gaUon; 
pure lampblack ground in oil, 4 
ounces. 

Mixing. — The materials must be 
thoroughly mixed before appUcation. 
The mixture shaU be of uniform con- 
sistency and stirred frequently whUe 
in use. 

Application. — AU surfaces shaU re- 
ceive two uniform coats, as above. 
When necessary to follow color 
scheme, finishing coats of pure white 
lead and Unseed oU, tinted to suit, 
shaU be applied over these coats. Each 
coat shaU dry thoroughly before the 
next is appUed. Paint on under side 
of roofing shaU dry hard before roof- 
ing is laid. 

Old Work. — Metal surfaces not new 
shaU be thoroughly cleaned with wire 
brush, removing all loose paint and 
particles, and then painted as above. 

Specifications for Fainting witli 
Zinc White. — Outside. — ^Any of the 
foUowing combinations may be used 
at discretion: 

Combination " A." — Primer, pure 
lead; second coat, pure lead; third 
coat, pure zinc. 

The primer may be tinted with not 



vJ 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



359 



more than 1 per cent of pure lamp- 
black, ocher, or umber in oil. This 
applies to all combinations, except 
where the final finish is to be white. 

Combination " B." — Primer, pure 
lead ; second coat, J zinc, § lead ; third 
coat, pure zinc. 

Combination " C." — Primer, pure 
lead ; second coat, J zinc, J lead ; third 
coat, § zinc, J lead. 

Combination " D." — Primer, J zinc, 
i lead; second coat, J zinc, i lead; 
third coat, J zinc, J lead. 

Combination " E " — Straight Zinc, 
Four-coat Work (_White). — Primer, 
pure zinc with 1 pint of turpentine 
to the gallon of paint; second coat, 
pure zinc with i pint of turpentine to 
the gallon of paint; third coat, pure 
zinc with 1 gill of turpentine to the 
gallon of paint; fourth coat, pure zinc 
ground in pure linseed oil (without 
turpentine) . 

Combination " F " — Straight Zinc, 
Three-coat Work {White). — Primer, 
pure zinc, with J pint of turpentine 
to the gallon of paint ; second coat, 
pure zinc with 1 gill of turpentine to 
the gallon of paint; third coat, pure 
zinc with all oil. 

In aU the foregoing, only a sufficient 
quantity of dryer to be used to insure 
work drying in five days. 

Where tints are desired, add to the 
foregoing tints as desired, mixed with 
pure oil colors. 

Inside Painting, Woodwork. — 
Where dark tones are required, the 
same combinations may be used as 
are specified on outside work. 

Where light tones are required, 
combinations " B," " E," or " F " may 
be used; if white or very light, "E" 
or " F " should be used. 

Where a flat surface is required, the 
proportion of turpentine should be 
increased and that of oil decreased to 
the point where a desired flatness is 
obtained. 

Plaster Painting, Inside. — ^Make all 
plaster work perfectly smooth and 
clean by brushing and sandpapering 
and washing if necessary, to remove 
any discoloration which will show 
through or injure paint. 



The specifications should be the 
same as the foregoing, except that an- 
other coat should be added. This coat 
should be the same as the primer if 
tone is dark and the same as final 
coat if tone is light. 

If an extraordinarily good job is 
required, both the above primer and 
final coats should be repeated, making 
five coats in all. 

Enamel Painting on Walls or on 
Woodwork. — First coat, primer of 
pure lead and linseed oil; second coat, 
i lead and i zinc; third coat, J lead 
and § zinc, with the addition of suffi- 
cient varnish to form a proper sur- 
face for final coat. 

Or any of the foregoing formulas 
may be used with the addition of var- 
nish to the third coat. 

The above coats to be applied care- 
fully and evenly, with brush marks 
showing as little as possible, and each 
coat to be lightly sandpapered so that 
final coat may be flowed on without 
showing any brush marks. Final coat 
to be a first grade of interior varnish 
with the addition of only sufficient 
zinc and color to produce the approved 
tint and to be carefully flowed on. 

Good workmen can make a first- 
class job of the above, and a bad 
workman can, if so inclined, so stint 
the materials and workmanship that 
it may not be satisfactory, and an- 
other final coat may be necessary. 

ShovJd the bidding be public and the 
architects be unable to select painters 
of known reputation, a clause like the 
following may be added: 

If, after the fourth coat, the work 
is not satisfactory, then the painter 
shall without extra charge do what- 
ever is necessary to make the work 
perfectly satisfactory. 

Stipple Wall Painting. — First coat, 
pure lead; second coat, J zinc and J 
lead (half turpentine and half oil) ; 
third coat shall be of stippling putty 
mixed with zinc and hard oil, and to 
be stippled evenly and lightly; fourth 
coat shall be of pure zinc in oil and 
turpentine (with such tint as re- 
quired), to be applied perfectly even 
and to be only of sufficient thickness 



360 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



to give proper tint and show stip- 
pling. 

CASE OF FAINTS AND BBTJSHES 

To Keep Paint Eresh. — Any paint 
left over after using must be sealed. 
Or it may be kept fresh in an open 
can or paU by merely filling up the 
vessel with water. When the paint 
is again needed the water may be 
poured off. But take care that the 
water does not evaporate, as in that 
case the paint will be ruined. 

Care of Brushes. — Paint brushes 
should not be left in paint or allowed 
to rest on the bristles in such a way 
as to curve the bristles to one side. 
After using, they should be thoroughly 
cleaned with turpentine and dried. Or 
the bristles should be immersed in a 
slow-drying varnish, the handles be- 
ing suspended so that the bristles will 
not touch the bottom of the can, 
and the whole covered to keep out 
the air. 

Or clean brushes first in linseed oil, 
then in warm soapsuds, and hang up 
to dry. 

Or, if likely to be used again short- 
ly, they may be suspended in water, 
oil, or varnish. But take care that 
these materials do not evaporate and 
allow the brush to get dry, as it may 
be ruined. 

To preserve brushes for future use 
without cleaning, bore a hole through 
the handle, string them on a wire, and 
suspend in a covered can containing 
linseed oil or varnish sufScient to cov- 
er the bristles. Close the can tightly 
to prevent evaporation. 

To Glean Paint Brushes. — When 
brushes become hard or gummed with 
oil and paint, soak the bristles in soft 
soap for two or three days, but do 
not immerse the head of the brush. 
Then soak out the paint in hot water. 

To Paint Furniture. — Furniture, 
cabinetwork, carriages, and the like, 
which require a highly finished sur- 
face, should first have all old paints 
and varnish removed by means of 
burning or otherwise, and the surface 
reflnisbed, 



Or, if the old paint is not badly 
checked or cracked, it may be sufS- 
cient to wash the work quite clean 
and rub it down to a dead finish 
with a wet cloth and ground pum- 
ice powder, and again wash and dry 
before painting. This takes off all 
grease and oil, and provides a sur- 
face on which paint and varnish will 
lie smoothly and adhere. 

Dryer for Paint. — Bring ej pounds 
of water to a boil, and slowly stir in 
i pound of shellac and J pound of 
borax. Stir constantly until a com- 
plete emulsion is formed. This solu- 
tion is a resinous varnish which, like 
paint, is waterproof and resists the 
action of the elements. To use this 
as a dryer, mix equal quantities of 
this solution with oil paints and thin 
slightly with turpentine, stirring to 
make a complete emulsion. Prepare 
this mixture only as wanted, since it 
dries in 10 to 20 minutes. 

To Thin Oil Paint with Water.— 
Dissolve 1 pound of gum shellac in 3 
pints of water, adding i pound of 
sal soda or a little more if necessary, 
and stir until all is dissolved. When 
cold, bottle for use. Instead of tur- 
pentine or benzine thinners, add to 
oil paints of any kind 1 pint of the 
gum shellac mixture to 2 quarts of 
oil paint. Afterwards thin with wa- 
ter to any desired consistency. 

SPECIAL KINDS OF PAINT 

Lime Paint. — A mixture combining 
the qualities of paint with those of 
whitewash may be made with slaked 
lime as a basis by the addition of 
various materials, as milk, whiting, 
salt, alum, copperas, potash, ashes, 
sand, and pitch, with or without a 
small proportion of white lead and 
linseed oil. These mixtures are more 
durable than whitewash, but have 
less finish than white lead and oil. 
The cost is intermediate between the 
two. 

To prepare a lime paint, slake 
lime with water and let dry to the 
consistency of paste. Thin with 
gkiwroed nulk to the proper thiCk- 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



S61 



ness to lay on with a brush. Add 
coloring matter as desired. 

Or slake 4 ounces of lime with 
water to the consistency of cream 
and stir into it 4 quarts of skimmed 
milk. Sprinkle on the surface through 
a sieve 6 pounds of whiting. Let this 
gradually sink, then stir and rub to- 
gether thoroughly and add coloring 
matter as desired. The casein or 
curd of milk, by the action of caus- 
tic lime becomes insoluble and pro- 
duces a paint of great tenacity suit- 
able for farm buildings, cellars, walls, 
and all rough outdoor purposes Ap- 
ply with a paint brush. Two or three 
coats will be necessary. The above 
quantity is sufficisnt for 100 square 
yards. 

Or slake stone lime in a cask or 
barrel with boiling water. Cover it 
to keep in the steam. Sift 6 quarts 
through cheese cloth or a fine sieve, 
add 1 quart of coarse salt and 1 
gallon of water. Boil and skim the 
mixture clear. While boiling, stir in 
for each 5 gallons of this mixture 1 
pound of alum, i pound of copperas, 
I pound of potash, and 4 quarts of 
finely sifted ashes or fine sand. Add 
these ingredients slowly and stir vig- 
orously until all are incorporated. 
Remove from the fire and add any 
coloring matter desired. 

Or slake 8 ounces of lime and let 
stand exposed to the air 34 hours. 
Mix with this 1 pint of milk. Stir 
in slowly 2 ounces of white pitch 
dissolved in 6 ounces of boiled lin- 
seed oil. Add 3 pints of skimmed 
milk and sift on top of this mixture 
3 pounds of whiting, allowing this to 
sink of its own weight. Then stir 
and rub the whole together until 
thoroughly incorporated. Add col- 
oring matter as desired. This quan- 
tity is sufficient to give two coats for 
37 square yards. 

Or mix 2 parts by bulk of fine 
ground water lime and 1 part of 
white lead ground in oil. Mix with 
boiled linseed oil and grind through 
a paint mill. Then mix with linseed 
oil to the proper consistency. Add 
coloring matter as desired. This is 



said to be more durable than ordi- 
nary paints based on lead alone. 

Paint with Zinc. — Dissolve 4 
pounds of crude sulphate of zinc in 
1 gallon of hot soft water. Let the 
mixture settle, and turn off the clear 
solution from the sediment. Mix this 
solution with an equal amount of 
paint composed of lead and oil, and 
stir slowly until a perfect emulsion 
is formed, which will require 10 or 15 
minutes. Thin, if necessary, with 
turpentine. This is a cheap paint, 
costing about 1 cent a pound, and is 
very durable. This recipe is said to 
have been sold for as much as $100 
for painter's use. 

Fireproof Paint. — Mix equal 
amounts of powdered iron filings, 
brick dust, and sifted ashes. Grind 
the whole to a fine powder. Prepare 
a warm glue size by dissolving 4 
ounces of glue in 1 gallon of water. 
Stir into this the powdered mixture, 
to the proper consistency, and ap- 
ply with a paint brush. Two or 
three coats will render woodwork fire- 
proof. 

Or slake stone lime in boiling wa- 
ter, covering it to keep in the steam. 
Reduce with water to the consistency 
of cream, and to each S gallons add 
1 pound of powdered alum, 13 
ounces of carbonate of potassium, 
and J pound of common salt. Stir 
in these ingredients in the order men- 
tioned. Add coloring matter as de- 
sired. Mix well, bring to the boiling 
point, and apply while hot. This is 
a suitable paint for the roofs of farm 
buildings and the like. 

Paint for Blackboards. — Dissolve 
4 ounces of glue in IJ pints of warm 
water; add 3 ounces of flour of em- 
ery and sufficient lampblack to make 
a mixture of the color and consist- 
ency of jet-black ink. Stir until free 
from lumps, and apply with the end 
of a roll of woolen cloth. Three 
coats will be necessary. 

Or take 2 quarts of alcohol, and 
mix 3 ounces of rotten stone, 5 
ounces of pumice stone, and 6 ounces 
of lampblack with enough of the al- 
cohol to form a stiff paste. Grind 



362 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



this mixture in a paint mill. Dissolve 
7 ounces of shellac in the remainder 
of the alcohol and mix the whole. 
Shake or stir before using. This 
quantity will give two coats on about 
30 square yards of blackboard. Let 
the first coat dry thoroughly before 
applying the second. 

To Imitate Stonework. — An imita- 
tion of a stone surface may be made 
either by mixing fine road dust or 
sand with paint, or by sprinkling a 
freshly painted surface with sand 
from a shaker having holes in the top 
simUar to a pepper box. Mix 100 
pounds of road dust, 25 pounds of 
white lead ground in oil, 50 pounds 
of whiting, 7 pounds of umber, and 
3 gallons of lime water. Grind with 
linseed oil. This gives a solid stone 
color. 

Or prepare an ordinary oil paint 
with white lead and suitable coloring 
matter, and while the surface is wet 
dust fine sand over it from a shaker. 
This imitates a stone surface. 

Soluble Glass Paints. — Silicate of 
sodium or soluble glass may be used 
as a vehicle for coloring matter, es- 
pecially for walls and ceilings, as it 
produces a very hard and durable 
surface. The coating of soluble glass 
containing coloring matter may be 
followed with a coating of clear solu- 
ble glass. This substance is much 
cheaper than the oil and lead paint, 
and has the advantage of being par- 
tially fireproof. It may be mixed 
with glycerin for flexible surfaces, as 
cloth, paper, etc. 

Pigments suitable to use with solu- 
ble glass are terra di Sienna, green 
earth, ocher, red and yellow earth, 
Nuremberg green, chrome green, and 
ultramarine. 

Acid-proof Faint. — Mix pulverized 
asbestos with a sirup solution of wa- 
ter glass to the consistency of paste 
until free from lumps. Thin with a 
solution of water glass as free from 
alkali as possible, and apply with a 
paint brush. This dries as hard as 
glass and resists the action of acid. 

Sarrel Faint. — Dissolve 8 pounds 
of rosin in 1 gallon of boiling linseed 



oU by boiling in a kettle and stir- 
ring until dissolved. This mixture is 
known as gloss oil. Use equal parts 
of gloss oil and benzine as a vehicle 
with lead, zinc, or anything you de- 
sire to use as a pigment. Stir well 
before using. 

Glue Faint for Kitchen Floors. — 
Mix 3 pounds of spruce yellow with 
2 pounds of dry white lead. Dis- 
solve 2 ounces of glue in 1 quart of 
water with gentle heat. When near- 
ly boiling, stir in the mixture and 
continue stirring until it thickens to 
the consistency of paste. Apply hot 
with a common paste brush. 

To Mix Colored Paints. — The col- 
ored pigments used in mixing colored 
paints come ground in oil in the fol- 
lowing colors: white, yellow, red, 
blue, green, brown, black. They also 
come in the form of powders. To 
prepare these for painting, it is only 
necessary to mix them with the prop- 
er amount of boiled linseed oil, with 
the addition of a thinner or dryer if 
desired. They are then ready to use. 

Other tints and shades are pre- 
pared by mixing and blending the 
above colors. The following are among 
the principal pigments used in mixing 
colored paints: 

White Faint. — White lead is usual- 
ly the basis of white paint, but It is 
often adulterated with barytes, oxide 
of zinc, prepared chalk, whiting, lime, 
or road dust. AU paint intended to 
show a pure white should have about 
J ounce of Prussian blue mixed with 
every 3 pounds of white lead, other- 
wise the lead appears as a stone color 
and not white. 

To mix white paint, use pure boiled 
linseed oil, and thin as desired ac- 
cording to conditions with oil of tur- 
pentine. 

Yellow Paint. — The yellows are usu^ 
ally ochers, chromate of lead, and 
various adulterants. 

To prepare chrome yellow pigment, 
dissolve in hot water 5 pounds of 
sugar of lead and 5 pounds of Paris 
white. Dissolve separately in hot 
water 6J ounces of bichromate of pot- 
ash. Add the bichromate solution to 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



the former, mix, and let stand 24 
hours. Strain through muslin and 
expose to the air to dry. Mix with 
boiled linseed oil. 

To make a cheap yellow paint, take 
60 pounds of whiting, 40 pounds of 
ocher, and 5 pounds of white lead 
ground in oil. Grind with raw lin- 
seed oil and mix with boiled linseed 
oil. 

Red Paint. — The reds are usually 
red oxide of lead, ochers, oxides of 
iron, red oxide of copper, vermilion, 
bichromate of lead, carmine, and mad- 
der and other lakes. Mix any of the 
above with boiled linseed oil and ap- 
ply- 

Or, to make cheap red paint, mix 
Venetian red with skimmed milk and 
apply with a. paint brush. This is 
suitable for gates, stone walls, and 
outbuildings. 

Or use oxide of iron mixed with a 
little boiled linseed oU. This is cheap 
and gives a very durable stain. 

Blue Paint. — The blues are usually 
Prussian blue, ultramarine, smalt, 
Thenard blue, verditer, etc. 

To nmke Prussian blue pigment 
take 1 pint of nitric acid, and add 
slowly as much iron shavings from 
the lathe or iron filings heated, but 
not red hot, as the acid will dissolve. 
After the acid has dissolved all it can, 
add to it 1 quart of soft water, and 
continue to add iron shavings or fil- 
ings as long as the acid dissolves 
them. Make a strong solution of 
prussiate of potash in hot water, and 
slowly add this to the iron and acid 
until the right tint is obtained. Strain 
through muslin, dry the sediment to 
powder, and grind or mix with boiled 
linseed oil. 

Or dissolve separately equal quan- 
tities of sulphate of iron (copperas) 
and prussiate of potash. Mix the two 
solutions, strain through muslin, dry 
the sediment to powder, and mix or 
grind with oil. 

Green Faint. — The greens are usu- 
ally verdigris, Paris green, verditer, 
borate of copper, chromate of copper, 
oxide of chromium, cobalt green, and 
green lakes. The most common green 



paint is a mixture of chrome yellow 
and Prussian blue. 

To make chrome green pigment, mix 
in the form of powder 6J pounds of 
Paris white, 3J pounds of sugar of 
lead, 3i pounds of blue vitriol, lOJ 
ounces of alum, 3J pounds of Prus- 
sian blue, and 3J pounds of chrome 
yellow. Stir these powders slowly 
into 1 gallon of water. Let stand 4 
hours, filter or strain through muslin, 
dry the sediment to powder, and mix 
or grind with boiled linseed oil. 

Or dissolve separately chrome yel- 
low and Prussian blue. Mix the two 
solutions to get the desired shade, and 
add spruce yellow to the proper con- 
sistency. 

Or slake the best quality of stone 
lime with hot water, covering to keep 
in the steam. Strain through a fine 
sieve, let dry, and reduce the sediment 
to powder. Make this powder into a 
thick paste with a saturated solution 
of alimi, and add, tmtil the desired 
shade is produced, enough solution of 
bichromate of potash to produce a 
yellowish green, and solution of sul- 
phate of copper to produce a bluish 
green. 

Or mix thoroughly in powdered 
form 5 pounds of -blue vitriol, 6J 
pounds of sugar of lead, 3i pounds of 
arsenic, and IJ ounces of bichromate 
of potash. Add 3 pints of water, mix, 
and let stand 4 hours. Strain or 
filter, dry the sediment to powder, and 
grind or mix with boiled linseed oil. 

To make cheap green paint, dissolve 
4 pounds of Roman vitriol in hot 
water. Add 2 pounds of pearlash and 
stir until dissolved. Add J pound of 
powdered yellow arsenic. Mix and 
apply with a paint brush. Two or 
three coats will be necessary. A dark- 
er or a lighter shade may be pro- 
duced by adding more or less of the 
yellow arsenic. This paint contains 
no oil. Hence, while it looks well, it 
does not protect wood as does an oil 
paint, but is suitable for stone walls 
and similar places. 

Or mix powdered charcoal with lin- 
seed oil, and add litharge as a dryer, 
using 1 gill to 1 gallon of oil. Add 



304 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ocher to produce the required shade 
of green. 

Brown Faint. — The browns are usu- 
ally umber, bole, terra di Sienna, bis- 
tre, sepia, etc. 

To produce a brown pigment, make 
a solution of sulphate of copper in 
hot water, and separately a strong 
solution of prussiate of potash. Mix 
the two solutions to the desired shade. 
Filter or strain through muslin. Dry 
the sediment to a powder. Grind or 
mix with boiled linseed oil. 

Black Faint. — The blacks are usu- 
ally lampblack, bone black, anthra- 
cite, graphite, powdered charcoal, 
etc. 

Lampblack is very commonly used 
both for black paint and also to mod- 
ify the brightness of tone in other 
colors in producing various tints and 
shades. 

To make a cheap black paint, mix 
powdered charcoal with linseed oil, 
and add as a dryer 1 gUl of litharge 
to 1 gallon of oil. 

Or take ivory or lampblack, 10 
pounds; sifted road dust, 20 pounds; 
lime water, 2 gallons. Grind in raw 
linseed oil. Mix with boiled linseed 
oil. 

Tints and Shades. — The various 
combinations of colors to produce 
tints and shades are innumerable, and 
can only be determined by experi- 
ment; but the following are the prin- 
cipal effects commonly desired, and 
indicate the lines along which the ex- 
periment should proceed. 

Pigments should be thinned with 
boiled linseed oil before mixing, the 
most predominant color being taken 
as a base, the other colors being slow- 
ly added in a tliin stream and stirred 
vigorously. The proportions must be 
determined by experiment and the 
taste of the painter. The predom- 
inant color stands first in the follow- 
ing list: 

Ash color or gray, white lead and 
lampblack. Vary the quantity of 
lampblack to give the shade desired. 

Lead color, white lead and indigo. 

Drab, white lead, raw and burnt 
umber. 



White oak, white lead and umber. 

Flesh color, white lead, lake, or yel- 
low ocher, or vermilion. 

Pearl, white lead, black, and 
blue. 

Buff, white lead and yellow ocher. 

Straw color, white lead and a small 
amount of yellow ocher. 

Fawn, white lead, yellow ocher, and 
red. 

Chestnut, red, black, and yeUow. 

Walnut, white lead and burnt um- 
ber. "Vein with the same, and touch 
the deepest spots with black. 

Light wiUow green, white lead and 
verdigris. 

Pea green, white lead and chrome 
green. 

Grass green, yellow ocher and ver- 
digris. 

Olive, yellow ocher, blue, black, and 
white. Vein with burnt umber. 

Bronze green, chrome green, black, 
and yellow. 

Orange, yellow and red. 

Brick color, red lead, yellow ocher, 
and white lead. 

Brown, vermilion, black, and a lit- 
tle yellow. 

Chocolate, raw umber, red, and 
black. 

Violet, red lead, Prussian blue, and 
white lead. 

Purple, same as violet, with more 
red and white. 

Gold, white lead, stone ocher, and 
red lead. 

Carnation, lake and pink. 

Timber color, spruce ocher, white 
lead, and a little umber. 

Chestnut color, red ocher, yellow 
ocher, and black. 

Limestone, white lead, yellow ocher, 
lampblack, and red lead. 

Freestone, red lead, lampblack, yel- 
low ocher, and white lead. 

Paint for Canvas. — Mix with boiled 
oil 24 pounds of ocher and 4 pounds 
of lampblack. Add 1 pound of soap 
dissolved in 3 pounds of water. Mix 
and apply with a paint brush two 
coats at intervals of 2 or 3 days. 
Allow to dry, and add a finishing 
coat of varnish formed of lampblack 
ground and thinned with boiled oil. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



365 



VASiriSEIITG 

Before varnishing, the surface 
should first be " flatted " either by 
mixing the last coat of paint with 
turpentine or by rubbing it down 
with a piece of felt moistened and 
dipped in pumice stone. For a level 
surface, tack the felt on a block of 
wood, or use thick woolen cloth or 
chamois tacked to a block of wood, 
or a smooth piece of pumice stone 
with water. Let dry and brush off 
the surface to remove the dust. Take 
care that the air is not full of dust 
when the varnish is applied. 

For a fine quality of work, two to 
six coats may be spread on, one after 
the other. Do not lift too much var- 
nish on the brush, but rather take up 
a small quantity, spread it on finely, 
and rub out well. Rub down the 
next to the last coat until the gloss is 
" flatted," and let the last be a flow- 
ing coat, heavy enough to flow out 
evenly of itself. For a cheaper grade 
of work, two or three coats are sufS- 
cient, the last coat being flowed on. 

To finish varnish, rub down with 
very finely pulverized pumice stone, 
and wash off with clear water. Af- 
terwards rub down with rotten stone 
and sweet oil, applied by means of 
the bare hands. Finally wipe and 
polish with chamois. 

Killing Knots. — Use for this pur- 
pose only the best quality of pure 
grain alcohol orange shellac varnish 
or "knot killer." Apply over this 
with a brush equal parts of red and 
white lead ground with water, and 
mixed with hot glue size at the rate 
of 4 ounces of glue to a gallon of 
water. Apply before it cools. And 
«Eor fine work, follow with a second 
coat of 3 parts of white lead ground 
in oU, and 1 part of red lead or 
litharge. 

Or, for cabinetwork, cover the knot 
with an oil size and lay over it silver 
or gold leaf. 

Or hold a hot iron against it until 
the pitch stews out so that it can be 
scraped off. Afterwards cQver with 
gold or silver leaf. 



Ingredients of Varnish. — Varnish 
is a solution of various gums, as the 
resins amber, copal, dragon's blood, 
mastic, lac, rosin, and sandarac, in 
various solvents, as alcohol, wood spir- 
it, oil of turpentine, linseed, and other 
drying oils. It is used as a decora- 
tion to produce a hard, transparent, 
or glossy surface, and also as a pro- 
tection against moisture and air. 

Resins. — Resins in general are sub- 
stances that occur in various plants, 
and which flow from trees of different 
species when the bark is cut. They 
are usually yellow and do not crystal- 
lize, but form in drops like gum. 
They are not, however, the same as 
gum, although the two words are often 
used interchangeably. 

Amber. — A resin produced from 
certain extinct coniferous trees. It 
occurs as a fossil, usually of a pale 
yellow color, opaque, or transparent. 
It is mined the same as coal in vari- 
ous parts of the world, especially in 
the vicinity of the Baltic Sea. Small 
quantities are found in the United 
States. Amber was much prized by 
the ancients and was an object of 
commerce in prehistoric times. It is 
extensively used for ornaments, es- 
pecially for the mouthpiece of pipes. 

Anime. — A resin which exudes from 
a certain tree in Brazil. Used as u. 
medicine and as incense. The name 
is also applied to a resin known in 
India as copal. 

Copal. — This name is applied to 
several resins used in varnishes. It is 
a nearly colorless, translucent sub- 
stance imported from tropical Amer- 
ica, India, and eastern and western 
Africa. Zanzibar copal is said to be 
the best. 

lac. — A resinous substance caused 
to exude from certain trees in Asia 
by the bites of an insect about the 
size of a louse. The twig punctured 
by these insects becomes incrusted 
with lac, sometimes to the thickness 
of a quarter of an inch. It protects 
the eggs and supplies food for the 
young maggots. The mothers are of- 
ten imprisoned and covered by the 
sticky fluid, imparting to it a lac 



366 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



dye similar to cochineal. The twigs 
are broken off before the maggots es- 
cape and are dried in the sun. 

Stick-lac is the crude product or 
dry twigs. It is not soluble in water 
except the lac dye or red coloring 
matter, which washes out. It is par- 
tially soluble in alcohol, but not in 
linseed oil or turpentine. 

Seed-lac is the resin removed from 
the twigs, and washed with water to 
remove the lac dye or coloring mat- 
ter. It is coarsely pounded. 

Xump-lac is seed-lac melted into 
lumps. 

Shell-lac (or shellac) is prepared 
from seed-lac by melting and strain- 
ing through cotton. 

lac Resin. — The essential principle 
of shellac may be obtained pure by 
refining shellac, which for this pur- 
pose is treated with cold alcohol, fil- 
tered, and distilled. It is a brown, 
translucent, hard, and brittle resin, 
and is very valuable. Shellac may be 
dissolved in alcohol, dilute hydrochlor- 
ic and acetic acids, sal ammoniac, and 
alkalies. One part of borax dissolved 
in boiling water will dissolve five times 
its weight of shellac, making a solu- 
tion which is as useful for many pur- 
poses as spirit varnish. 

Shellac is much favored as a var- 
nish, being harder than rosin and eas- 
ily soluble in alcohol. It is also the 
principal ingredient of the best seal- 
ing wax. It is used as a size and 
has valuable waterproofing qualities. 

Mastic. — A valuable gum resin pro- 
duced from certain trees and shrubs 
in Barbary, the Levant, and China. 
It is used as an ingredient in many 
varnishes. Used by itself it is trans- 
parent, brilliant, tough, and delicate. 
It is also often employed in finishing 
maps and paintings, also in medicine, 
dentistry, and in mounting articles for 
the microscope. Mastic is used with 
other ingredients in varnish to impart 
a gloss. 

Rosin or Colophony. — This sub- 
stance is the residue obtained by dis- 
tilling crude turpentine from pine 
trees, of which it comprises about 70 
per cent to 90 per cent. It is largely 



manufactured together with oil of 
turpentine in North Carolina. In col- 
or it ranges, according to its purity, 
from transparent or straw color to a 
brownish yellow. It can be dissolved 
in alcohol, ether, wood spirit, linseed 
oil, or turpentine, partly in petroleum 
but not }n water. It can also be dis- 
solved by nitric acid and alkalies. It 
is largely used in varnishes and 
cements, in calking ships, in the 
preparation of plaster and ointments, 
in soldering metals, in making yellow 
soaps, and otherwise. A common use 
is for covering the bows of violins. 

Sandarao is produced from a small 
coniferous tree in Barbary. It oc- 
curs in pale-yellow oblong grains or 
tears covered with a fine dust. It is 
transparent and brittle. It is used 
in pharmacy as an incense, and in 
varnishes, and also in powdered form 
it is rubbed on writing paper where 
erasures have been made in order to 
prevent the spread of ink. It is part- 
ly soluble in cold alcohol, and wholly 
in alcohol brought to the boiling 
point. 

Gums. — Gums are substances which 
occur in plants and some animals, but 
which are neither oily nor resinous. 
They exude for the most part from 
various trees when the bark is cut. 
The principal gums are arable, Sene- 
gal, mesquite, tragacanth, Bassora. 
They are principally employed in the 
manufacture of mucilage, also in med- 
icine, pharmacy, confectionery, calico 
printing in the preparation of the 
inks, and also for sizes. 

Gums Arabic and Senegal. — These 
gums exude from various trees in 
Africa and Asia, and are sold under 
various trade terms denoting the 
localities from which they come. 

Gum Mesquite. — A substance sim- 
ilar to gum arable, but produced in 
plants growing in the dry regions of 
Mexico and adjacent parts of the 
United States. It differs from the 
other gums in the fact that its prin- 
ciple is not precipitated by borax. 

Gums arable, Senegal, and mesquite 
are easily soluble in hot or cold water, 
forming mucilage. They can be sepa- 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



367 



rated from water by the addition of 
alcohol or subacetate of lead. They 
are coagulated by borax, except gum 
mesquite. 

Gums tragacanth and Bassora swell, 
but do not perfectly dissolve, in water. 
They can, however, be rubbed with 
water into a very adhesive paste, which 
is not, strictly speaking, a solution. 

Asphalt. — Asphalt occurs in nature 
in veins, beds, and lakes, usually be- 
neath the surface of the ground. In 
the island of Trinidad, Venezuela, 
occur lakes of asphalts about three 
miles in circumference. It is a dry 
solid with a glossy black surface eas- 
ily melted and very inflammable. It 
can be dissolved in alcohol, linseed 
oil, turpentine, or ether, also in ben- 
zol and bisulphide of carbon. With 
benzol it forms an intensely black 
solution called black varnish. It is 
used for varnish, insulation, water- 
proofing cement, roofing, and paint- 
ing. 

Kinds of Varnish. — The character 
of varnish is largely affected by the 
substance in which it is dissolved. 
Thus we have fixed-oil varnishes in 
which the principal solvent is turpen- 
tine ; spirit varnishes or " lac varnish- 
es," true solutions of resins in alco- 
hol, wood spirit, acetone, benzine, etc. ; 
volatile-oil varnishes, the principal 
solvents being oil of turpentine, and 
ether varnishes, being solutions of res- 
in in ether. In addition to the above 
are various special varnishes of gutta 
percha, wax, and other substances. 

FIXED-OIL VABNISHES 

Solutions of resins in boiled lin- 
seed oil have the same durable qual- 
ity as oil paint, with the addition of 
a high luster. As in paint, the linseed 
oil absorbs oxygen from the air, and 
is converted into a tough, elastic 
waterproof substance. 

To prepare fixed-oil varnishes, melt 
the resins anime, amber, copal, etc.; 
heat the boiled linseed oil to a high 
temperature, and pour it into the 
melted resin in a thin stream, stir- 
ring constantly. To test the proper 



amount of linseed oil to be added to 
the resin, take out a drop of the fluid 
now and then and let it cool on a 
glass plate. When the proportion: of 
oil and resins are correct, the drop 
will be limpid like wax. If the drop 
becomes hard and brittle, more oil is 
required. When mixed, remove from 
the fire and allow the mixture to cool. 
Then dilute to the proper consistency 
by pouring in turpentine in a, thin 
stream and stirring constantly. 

But first boil the mixture of lin- 
seed oil and resin before adding the 
turpentine. 

The best quality of linseed oil 
should be employed for a varnish. 

The proper proportions for an or- 
dinary oil varnish are about 10 parts 
by weight of resin, 5 to 25 parts of 
boiled linseed oil, and 15 to 25 parts 
of oil of turpentine. Varnishes of 
this character usually improve with 
age. The following are formulas for 
fixed-oil varnishes: 

Amber Varnish. — Eight ounces of 
amber, 5 ounces of boiled linseed oil, 
and \ pint of oil of turpentine. This 
varnish is very durable, but a slow 
dryer. 

Or, for larger quantities, 6 pounds 
of amber, 2 gallons of hot linseed oil, 
and 4 gallons of oil of turpentine. 
Melt the amber, add the linseed oil 
hot, and boil until stringy. Cool and 
add the turpentine. 

Or amber, 16 ounces; boiled linseed 
oil, 10 ounces; Venetian turpentine or 
gum lac, 2 -ounces; oil of turpentine, 
15 or 16 ounces. 

Or melt 4 pounds of resin and J 
pound of beeswax. Add 1 gallon of 
boiled oil at a high temperature. Mix 
and boil until stringy. Cool and add 
2 quarts of turpentine. 

Or melt \\ pounds of rosin, add 1 
pound of Venetian turpentine, then 
stir in 1 gallon of boiled linseed oil 
at high temperature. Boil until 
stringy; cool and thin with 1 quart 
of turpentine. The above are ordinary 
oil varnishes suitable for common 
work. 

Copal Varnish. — Fuse 3 ounces of 
African copal and add 4 ounces of 



368 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



best boiled linseed oil at a high tem- 
perature. Boil until stringy, cool, and 
add 8 ounces of oil of turpentine. 
This is a transparent body varnish, 
hard, clear, and durable. 

Or melt 4 ounces of copal, and add 
at a high temperature 2 ounces of 
boiled linseed oil. Stir and thin with 
3J ounces of turpentine. To make a 
white copal varnish, color the above 
with the finest white lead. 

Anime Varnishes. — Melt 4 pounds 
of gum anime and add at a high tem- 
perature IJ gallons of boiled linseed 
oil. Boil until stringy. Stir in 3 
ounces of camphor and 2 ounces of 
litharge, cool, and thin with 2| gal- 
lons of oil of turpentine. This is a 
good carriage or furniture varnish. 

Or, for a finer grade of work, melt 
4 pounds of gum anime; add at a 
high temperature IJ gallons of clari- 
fied linseed oil, 3 ounces of litharge, 
3 ounces of dry acetate of lead, and 
35 gallons of turpentine. 

Lac Varnishes. — Dissolve 1 pound 
of shellac, and add at a high temper- 
ature 2 quarts of boiled linseed oil. 
Stir in i pound of red lead, J pound 
of litharge, and 2 ounces of umber. 
Boil until stringy. This dries rapid- 
ly, and has a high gloss. 

Waterproof Varnish. — Dissolve 1 
pound of flowers of sulphur in 1 gal- 
lon of boiled linseed oil. Boil and 
stir until they form a perfect emul- 
sion. This is a good waterproof var- 
nish for woven goods. 

Or cut India rubber in small 
pieces, put them in a glass bottle 
with benzine, and let stand four or 
five days, shaking frequently. Strain 
through cotton to remove the ben- 
zine, and thin with boiled linseed oil 
or turpentine. 

Flexible or Balloon Varnish. — Cut 
1 poimd of India rubber into fine 
pieces and boil in 1 pound of linseed 
oil until dissolved. Cool, and add 1 
pound of turpentine. Simmer with 
gentle heat and strain through cheese 
cloth. 

Dissolve 8 ounces of birdlime in 8 
ounces of boiled linseed oil. Boil un- 
til the birdlime ceases to crackle, Add 



12 ounces of boiled oil and 3 ounces 
of litharge, and boil until it becomes 
stringy. Cool, and add 12 ounces of 
turpentine. Apply while warm. 

Or dissolve i ounce of India rub- 
ber cut fine in 1 pound of mineral 
naphtha. Cover the vessel and melt 
with gentle heat until it dissolves. 
Strain through cheese cloth. 

Or cut fine 4 ounce of India rub- 
ber, pour over this 1 pint of boiled 
linseed oil, and dissolve with gen- 
tle heat, stirring constantly. Strain 
through cheese cloth. 

Or raise to a boil 2 quarts of boiled 
linseed oil, stirring in IJ ounces of 
white copperas, IJ ounces of sugar of 
lead, and 4 ounces of litharge. Boil 
until stringy. Allow to cool slowly 
and pour off the clear liquid. 

Or take 1 gallon of boiled linseed 
oil, and dissolve 4 ounces of pure 
asphaltum with gentle heat in a small 
amount of the oil. Grind 3 ounces of 
burnt umber in a little of the oil. 
Add the remainder of the oil, boil 
until stringy, cool, and thin with oil 
of turpentine. 

Black Asphalt Varnish for Iron- 
work. — Dissolve 3 pounds of asphalt 
in 4 pounds of boiled linseed oil. Re- 
move from the fire and thin with 15 
to 18 pounds of oil of turpentine. 

Or boil 22J pounds of foreign 
asphalt in 3 gallons of linseed oil. 
Add 3 pounds of litharge. Boil un- 
til stringy, then add 4 pounds of 
melted gum amber and 1 gallon of 
linseed oil. Bring to a boil, remove 
from the fire, and thin with 22 gal- 
lons of turpentine. 

India rubber or gutta percha may 
be added to any common oil varnish 
if desired to impart additional flexi- 
bility. 

Or melt 12 pounds of asphafcum, 
add 2J gallons of boiled linseed oil, 
2J pounds of red lead, 2J pounds of 
litharge, and 1 pound of dry and pow- 
dered white copperas. Boil 3 hours, 
add 2| pounds of dark gum amber 
melted and § gallon of hot linseed oil. 
Boil 3 hours. To test, take out a 
few drops and allow to cool on a 
glass plate, When boiled sufficiently. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



369 



it may be rolled into pills. Remove 
from the fire and thin with 10 gal- 
lons of oil of turpentine. This is 
suitable for varnishing the best grades 
of ironwork. 

Or to i pint of boiled" linseed oil 
add 6 ounces of powdered asphaltum. 
Bring to a boil and stir in 1 pound 
of melted amber. Cool, and add 1 
pint of oil of turpentine. 

Or dissolve 8 ounces of asphaltum 
and 4 ounces of rosin in 1 pint of oil 
of turpentine. Rub up 2 ounces of 
lampblack to a paste with boiled lin- 
seed oil and stir into the mixture. 
The above are suitable for iron fences 
or hinges exposed to the weather, or 
for iron shovels, tools, coal scuttles, 
and other sheet-iron or cast-iron sur- 
faces to protect them from rust and 
to give them a good appearance. 

Or melt 4 pounds of asphalt and 
add 1 quart of boiled linseed oil and 
1 gallon of oil of turpentine. This is 
suitable for grates, and other rough 
cast-iron surfaces. 

Or melt 21 pounds of asphaltum 
and add 1 gallon of turpentine. When 
cool, add 1 pint of copal varnish and 
1 pint of boiled linseed oil. This is 
black varnish for wood or canvas. 

SFIBIT OB LAC VABNISHES 

These differ from fixed-oil varnish- 
es in being true solutions of various 
resins, chiefly anime, mastic, shellac, 
and sandarac, in spirituous solvents, 
usually alcohol and wood spirit, or 
acetone, benzine, etc. 

Sandarac is used to impart hard- 
ness, mastic to give a gloss. Venetian 
turpentine is frequently added to san- 
darac, or a little concentrated am- 
monia is often added to overcome the 
tendency of varnish to chill or crack 
and give a rough surface. "Venetian 
turpentine is used with sandarac to 
prevent excessive brittleness. 

To make spirit varnishes, first pul- 
verize the resins and mix them with 
sand or broken glass to prevent their 
forming into lumps. Put them in a 
double boiler, cover with the spirit, 
which should be not less than 95 per 



cent pure, and dissolve wfth gentle 
heat. Afterwards filter, first through 
silk, then through filter paper. 

Shellac Varnishes. — Shellac will be 
more soluble if powdered and ex- 
posed to the air as long as possible 
before using. To make cheap shel- 
lac, dissolve 1 ounce of borax in 8 
ounces of boiling water. Add 5 ounces 
of pulverized shellac, stir, and boil 
until dissolved. If too thin, continue 
to boil until sufficient water has evap- 
orated, or if too thick, thin with boil- 
ing water. This solution is equal to 
spirit varnishes for many purposes, 
and is much cheaper. When dry, 
weather has no effect upon it. Hence 
it is useful to dissolve water colors 
for calcimining and for other pur- 
poses. 

Or India ink rubbed up in this 
solution may be used where an acid- 
proof labeling ink is required. It is 
not affected by the fumes of acids. 

Or put in a glass fruit jar 8 ounces 
of water, 3 ounces of white shellac, 
and 1 ounce of saf ammoniac, and let 
stand over night. Place the fruit jar 
in a saucepan containing hot water, 
and boil, stirring constantly until the 
shellac is dissolved. 

Or boil in an earthen vessel. 

This solution may be used as a sub- 
stitute for spirit varnish, is much 
cheaper, and has the advantage of be- 
ing waterproof. Diluted with 10 or 
13 parts of water and applied by 
means of a brush, it may be used for 
waterproofing cloth or making oil- 
cloth. It may also be used for stain- 
ing and waterproofing wood, as a 
stain paint or a varnish, according to 
consistency, and may be mixed with 
any water-color or oil pigments to 
produce any color that may be de- 
sired. 

The above are not true spirit var- 
nishes, but may be treated most con- 
veniently in this place. 

Or dissolve 10 ounces of white shel- 
lac in 1 quart of 95 per cent alcohol. 
This may be done without heat by 
pouring the alcohol over the shellac 
and letting it stand in a warm place 
until dissolved. Keep in a covered 



370 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



fruit jar* or corked bottle to prevent 
evaporation. This is a good trans- 
parent varnish for furniture, wood- 
work, tools, and most other purposes. 
It dries rapidly. It is especially use- 
ful to coat woodwork that is exposed 
to the weather, as farming tools and 
other utensils that are frequently used 
or left out of doors. It is a very con- 
venient and serviceable all-round var- 
nish. 

Or color the above by the addition 
of lampblack or asphaltimi. This 
gives a glossy black varnish. 

Or, to give a thicker coat of var- 
nish, take 1 quart of 95 per cent £d- 
cohol, and add all the gum shellac it 
will cut. Strain out the excess through 
silk and filter paper. Add 2 ounces 
of Venetian turpentine. This gives a 
transparent gloss. 

Or color with aniline dyes as de- 
sired. 

Or, to make a hard shellac varnish 
for special purposes, as gunstocks and 
the like, dissolve 10 ounces of shellac, 
1 ounce of sandarac, and 1 dram of 
Venetian turpentine in 1 gallon of 95 
per cent alcohol. Put in a glass fruit 
jar or earthenware vessel, cover tight- 
ly, and let stand in a warm place 
until dissolved. Apply two or three 
coats, and finish, if desired, with one 
or two coats of still harder varnish, 
prepared as follows: 

Dissolve 1 ounce of shellac, i ounce 
of sandarac, and J ounce of Venetian 
turpentine in 3 quarts of alcohol. This 
gives a high polish and requires less 
rubbing. 

To Color Shellac. — Add 1 ounce of 
aniline dye to 1 pint of shellac var- 
nish. 

For mahogany, use aniline cardinal 
dye. 

Other colors and coloring matters 
may be added freely to produce any 
colors desired. 

Or mix equal weights of gum shel- 
lac and alcohol, and heat until the 
mixture becomes quite thick. Add 
any desired amount of aniline dyes 
dissolved in alcohol, and thin with 
about' one fifth by weight of castor 
oU. 



lacquers. — Colored spirit varnishes 
are used to give a tinge of gold to 
articles made of brass or other base 
metals. The bases of these lacquers 
is a varnish consisting of 3 parts of 
seed-lac and 4 parts of sandarac or 
elemi dissolved in 40 parts of alcohol. 
To this, tinctures of annotto, coralline, 
dragon's blood, gamboge, gummigutta, 
Martius yellow, picric acid, or tur- 
meric are added separately to give 
the required color. 

To make a good gold lacquer for 
brass work, dissolve 3 ounces of seed- 
lac, 1 oimce of turmeric, and J ounce 
of dragon's blood in 1 pint of alco- 
hol. Put the solution in a glass fruit 
jar and let stand in a warm place, 
shaking frequently until dissolved. 
Filter through silk and filter paper. 

Or, if deep gold is desired, dis- 
solve J pound of ground turmeric, | 
ounce of gamboge, If pounds of san- 
darac, and 6 oimces of sheUac in 1 
gallon of 95 per cent alcohol. Strain 
through silk and filter paper and add 
i pint of turpentine varnish. 

Or, for deep red, dissolve IJ pounds 
of annotto, J pound of dragon's blood, 
and If pounds of gum sandarac in 1 
gallon of alcohol. Strain, filter, and add 
1 pint of turpentine varnish. 

Or, for pale gold, dissolve J ounce 
of gamboge, IJ ounces of cape aloes, 
and i pound of white shellac in 1 gal- 
lon of alcohol. 

Copal Varnishes. — Copal dissolved 
in alcohol forms a hard, durable var- 
nish for fine cabinetwork and similar 
purposes, but it is more expensive than 
shellac and no better for ordinary 
purposes. To prepare ordinary copal 
varnish, first melt the resin with gen- 
tle heat in a double boiler. Then 
pulverize and mix it with sand. Final- 
ly dissolve it in strong alcohol and 
strain and filter. The addition of 
elemi resin or solution of turpentine 
softens it. 

To make a transparent copal var- 
nish, put 6 ounces of melted and pul- 
verized copal and 6 ounces of 95 per 
cent alcohol in a glass bottle or fruit 
jar, cork it tightly, and set in a warm 
place imtil dissolved. Then add 4 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



371 



ounces of turpentine and 1 ounce of 
ether. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of camphor in 
1 quart of alcohol. Put this in a 
glass bottle or fruit jar with 4 ounces 
of melted and pulverized copal, and 
set in a warm place until dissolved. 
Strain, filter, and dry the sediment, if 
any, for future use. 

Or dissolve 7 ounces of copal, 1 
ounce of mastic, and J oimce of Vene- 
tian turpentine in 11 ounces of alco- 
hol. First dissolve the copal in a small 
amount of alcohol with J ounce of 
camphor. Add the mastic and tur- 
pentine and thin with the remainder 
of the alcohol. This is a good varnish 
for articles frequently handled. 

Colored Copal Varnish. — On ac- 
count of its superior hardness, copal 
varnish is frequently used as a vehicle 
for various coloring matters for toys, 
picture frames, bric-a-brac, articles of 
furniture, and the like. Experiments 
may be made with any desired colors, 
but the following suggestions may be 
helpful: 

For flaxen gray, mix ceruse with an 
equal quantity of English red or car- 
minated lake. Add a little Prussian 
blue. 

For yellow, use yellow oxide of lead 
or Naples or MontpeUier. Mix in a 
glass vessel, and do not let it come 
in contact with iron or steel. Or use 
gummigutta, yeUow ocher, or Dutch 
pink. 

For violet, vermilion, blue, and 
white. 

For purple, cochineal, carmine, and 
carminated lakes with ceruse. Or 
Prussian blue and vermilion. 

For green, a mixture of verdigris 
with ceruse, white lead, or Spanish 
white. Or a mixture of yeUow and 
blue. 

For red, red oxide of lead, cinna- 
bar, vermilion, red ocher, or Prussian 
red. These coloring matters may be 
used ground with boiled oil or in the 
form of powders, water colors, or an- 
iline dyes. 

Sandarac Varnishes. — Sandarac or 
lac varnishes containing a considerable 
a!mount of sandarac are very hard and 



brittle; hence they are liable to crack 
and their use is limited. They may 
be softened by the addition of gum 
elemi or Venetian turpentine. To 
make a hard white sandarac varnish, 
dissolve IJ pounds of sandarac in 1 
quart of 95 per cent alcohol. Add J 
pint of pale turpentine varnish. Mix 
and let stand 24 hours. 

Or dissolve 3 ounces of sandarac, 1 
ounce of shellac, and 2 ounces of resin 
in 16 ounces of 95 per cent alcohol. 
Add 3 ounces of oil of turpentine. 

VOLATILE-OIL VASNISHES 

These are solutions of various res- 
ins, principally gum copal, Canada 
balsam, resin, and others in oil of 
turpentine; are more durable and less 
brittle than spirit varnishes, but re- 
quire more time in drying. 

Like fixed-oil varnishes, they im- 
prove with age, whereas spirit var- 
nishes deteriorate in quality. The res- 
ins may usually be dissolved in oil of 
turpentine without being previously 
melted. Seven pounds of oil of tur- 
pentine will usually dissolve about 5 
pounds of resin. 

To make ordinary turpentine var- 
nish, dissolve with gentle heat i pound 
of powdered white resin in 1 pint of 
turpentine. Or other proportions rec- 
ommended range from 3 to 5 pounds 
of resin in 1 gallon of turpentine. 

Canada Balsam Varnish with Tur- 
pentine. — Mix equal parts of pure 
Canada balsam and pale oil of turpen- 
tine. Dissolve with gentle heat and 
shake occasionally. Let stand two or 
three days, strain, and filter. This 
varnish improves with age. 

Copal Varnish with Turpentine. — 
Dissolve 3 ounces of copal in 1 poimd 
of oil of turpentine. 

Ether Varnishes. — These are a solu- 
tion of various resins in ether. They 
are very little used. 

To make an ethereal copal varnish, 
dissolve 5 ounces of copal and 3 ounces 
of ether. This is suitable for repair- 
ing jewelry, as, for example, broken 
enamel, for the setting of gems, and 
the like. It may be applied to wood 



372 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



by first rubbing the wood with a cloth 
moistened in oil of turpentine, wiping 
with a linen cloth, and then applying 
the varnish. This prevents the ether 
from evaporating too rapidly. 

To make ethereal amber varnish, 
dissolve 4 grains of amber in 1 ounce 
of chloroform. Use this for varnish- 
ing photographs, maps, etc. 

SPECIAL VABmSHES 

Hiscellaneous Varnishes. — In addi- 
tion to the above, various miscellane- 
ous varnishes are in use for different 
purposes, among which may be men- 
tioned the following: 

Map Varnish. — Dissolve 1 ounce of 
gutta percha in 5 ounces of oil of tur- 
pentine. Add 8 ounces of hot linseed 
oil. 

Varnish for Oil Paintings. — Melt 
with gentle heat 1 pound of white 
wax. Add 1 pint of warm 95 per 
cent alcohol. Mix and pour on a cold 
porphyry slab. Grind to a smooth 
paste with a muller. Add sufficient 
water and beat up to the consistency 
of milk with an egg beater. Strain 
through cheese cloth. Spread this over 
the paint and allow it to dry. After- 
wards go over it with a warm (not 
hot) iron to melt and diffuse it 
equally. 

Zinc Varnish. — Dissolve equal parts 
of potassium chloride and copper sul- 
phate in hot water. Immerse the zinc 
ten seconds. Dry, wash, and polish. 
This forms a solution of copper oxide 
having an indigo-blue color. 

Varnish to Prevent Rust. — Melt 4 
ounces of tallow and 2 ounces of ros- 
in, strain through cheese cloth while 
hot, and stir in 1 ounce of finely pul- 
verized black lead. Apply to tools and 
other metals with a brush. 

Or melt paraflin and apply with a 
brush. 

Or dissolve 4 ounces of mastic, 2 
ounces of camphor, 6 ounces of sanda- 
rac, and 3 ounces of elemi in alcohol, 
and apply to fine tools and other 
metallic surfaces. This improves the 
appearance of the articles, and may 
be used on hardware exposed for sale. 



Or dissolve 9 ounces of rosin, 3 
ounces of sandarac, and 2 ounces of 
shellac in 3 ounces of alcohol. When 
cool add 2 ounces of turpentine. 
Strain, filter, and bottle for use. 

Varnish from Sealing Wax. — Dis- 
solve 1 ounce of any color of sealing 
wax in 4 ounces of alcohol, and apply 
while warm with a soft bristle brush. 
The principal ingredient of sealing 
wax is shellac. 

Varnish for Window Glass. — Mix J 
ounce of gum tragacanth finely pow- 
dered with the whites of 2 eggs, and 
beat thoroughly with an egg beater. 
Let stand 24 hours and apply to 
window panes with a soft brush. 
When dry, this effectually prevents 
the sun's rays from passing through 
the glass. 

Varnish for Leather. — Dissolve in 
water 3 ounces of gum arable. Dis- 
solve separately in brandy 3 ounces of 
isinglass. Mix and apply. 

Tar Varnish. — Melt together 2 gal- 
lons of tar and 1 pound of tallow. 
Add 7 pounds of ocher ground in lin- 
seed oil. Thin with 6 pounds of oil 
of turpentine. Mix well. This is 
suitable for aU rough outdoor work, 
protecting bulkheads, drains, water 
troughs, leaders, and woodwork in 
all localities exposed to much damp- 
ness. 

Stone Varnish. — Melt 10 pounds of 
rosin, add 1 pound of linseed oil, and 
stir in 10 pounds of prepared chalk. 
Mix thoroughly. Add 4 ounces of 
native oxide of copper and 4 ounces 
of sulphuric acid. Mix well and ap- 
ply hot with a brush. When dry, this 
is practically fireproof and is hard as 
stone. 

Asphaltum Varnish. — Dissolve with 
gentle heat 2J pounds of pulverized 
asphaltum in 1 gallon of spirits of 
turpentine. This is a suitable varnish 
for all iron work, stoves, stovepipes, 
grates, coal scuttles, fly screens, wire 
netting, exposed hinges, and other 
hardware, and all iron or steel ex- 
posed to the weather or likely to suf- 
fer from rust. 

Or to the above add 1 pint copal 
spirit varnish, and J pint boiled lin- 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



373 



seed oil. This is suitable for wood, 
iron, or leather. 

Varnish for Paintings, Drawings, 
and Prints. — A number of special 
varnishes, including spirit or lac var- 
nishes containing gum sandarac, mas- 
tic, and the like, turpentine varnishes 
with Canada balsam, and various 
special mixtures, are recommended 
for coating oil paintings, drawings, 
prints, and the lilte, to protect them 
from the effects of exposure. 

Mastic Varnish. — To make the iin- 
est quality of pure varnish for oil 
paints and similar fine work, crush 
the mastic on a stone or marble with 
a knife blade or ivory paper cutter, 
and eject the soft part or tears. Put 
the hard grains into a glass bottle 
with rectified spirits of turpentine, 
and shake the bottle until the mastic 
dissolves without heat. Strain through 
a piece of muslin, cork the bottle, and 
stand it in direct sunlight for several 
weeks. A gummy sediment like muci- 
lage wiU form in the bottom of the 
bottle. Reject this, pouring off only 
the clear liquor for use. To each 
ounce of this liquor add 2 ounces of 
alcohol, and thin, if desired, with rec- 
tified turpentine. 

Or, for larger quantities, mix 2J 
pounds of mastic with 1 pound of 
clean crushed glass and 1 gallon of 
rectified spirits of turpentine. Put 
the whole in a large jug or glass bot- 
tle, cork tightly, and shake or agi- 
tate the bottle until the gum is dis- 
solved. Let the whole stand several 
months, the longer the better. Pour 
off the clear liquor from the top for 
use. 

Mastic and Sandarac Varnish. — 
Mix equal quantities of gum sandarac 
and gum mastic dissolved in alcohol. 
Let stand forty-eight hours to settle, 
and strain through linen. Apply by 
means of a camel's-hair brush. 

Or dissolve i ounce of gum cam- 
phor in 3 pints of 95 per cent alco- 
hol, and add S ounces of sandarac and 
2 ounces of mastic. Cork tightly in 
a glass bottle, shake until dissolved, 
and let stand 48 hours or more in a 
warm place to settle. Pour off the 



clear liquor. This is suitable for 
drawings, prints, dry plants or flow- 
ers, and similar fine work. 

Balsam Varnish. — Size colored de- 
signs, as water colors, maps, litho- 
graphs, and colored prints, with one 
or more coats of a solution of gum 
arable or isinglass in water, or of 
boiled rice or wheat starch, and then 
apply a varnish composed of 2 parts 
of spirits of turpentine and 1 part of 
Canada balsam, or equal parts of 
each. Apply by means of a flat cam- 
el's-hair brush. 

Or dissolve 3 ounces of Canada bal- 
sam, 3 ounces of white rosin, and 1 
part of oil of turpentine. 

Or, for a cheaper article, 6 ounces 
of pale-white rosin dissolved in 1 pint 
of turpentine. 

Or dissolve 3 ounces of Canada bal- 
sam in J pint of turpentine, and add 
3 ounces of pale copal varnish. 

Shellac"" Varnish. — Heat in a suit- 
able saucepan S ounces of clean ani- 
mal charcoal, pour over this while 
warm 1 pint of 95 per cent alcohol, 
add 2J ounces of pale shellac, and 
boil carefully over a slow fire, cover- 
ing loosely to prevent too much evap- 
oration. 

Test the solution by filtering a sam- 
ple, and if not colorless add a little 
more charcoal. When the liquor is 
colorless, strain through a piece of 
white silk and filter with filter paper. 
This gives a perfectly colorless liquor 
which dries quickly and does not chill 
or bloom. Apply by means of a cam- 
el's-hair brush at a temperature of at 
least 60° F. in an atmosphere free 
from dust. This is one of the best 
and purest of all varnishes, is com- 
monly used by bookbinders, and may 
be applied to the finest oil paintings 
after the oil is thoroughly dried and 
hard, to drawings, prints, gilding, and 
all ornaments likely to be injured by 
damp, as it resists damp and pre- 
vents mildew. 

Bookbinder's Varnish. — Dissolve in 
1 quart of alcohol 2 ounces of shellac, 
j ounce of benzoin, and i ounce of 
mastic. Shake until dissolved and add 
J ounce of oil of lavender. 



374 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Isinglass Size. — Put 4 ounces of 
isinglass shavings in a glass bottle 
with an equal quantity of water, and 
let stand 24 hours or more to soften. 
Add 1 pint of 95 per cent alcohol, 
and in this dissolve the isinglass in a 
double boiler with gentle heat. Cork 
the bottle to prevent evaporation, but 
not tightly enough to cause explosion. 
Apply two or three coats, letting each 
coat dry before the next is applied, 
and following with any of the above 
print varnishes. 

Parchment Varnish. — Put white 
parchment cuttings with water in a glass 
or earthenware vessel, and boil in a 
double boiler until a clear jell or size 
is produced. Strain through cheese 
cloth. Apply one or more coats by 
means of a camel's-hair brush. 

Varnish for Musical Instruments. 
— Dissolve together with gentle heat 
2 ounces of gum sandaric, 1 ounce 
of seed-lac, J ounce of mastic, i ounce 
of benjamin in tears, and 1 ounce of 
Venetian turpentine in 16 ounces of 
pure alcohol. Stir in 2 ounces of 
pounded glass. 

Or dissolve in 1 quart of 95 per 
cent alcohol 3 ounces of sandarac, IJ 
ounces of mastic, and 1 gill of tur- 
pentine varnish. Mix together in a 
glass bottle and shake until dissolved. 
This may be thinned with additional 
turpentine varnish if desired. 

SEALIIirG WAX 

Sealing wax is made of shellac, with 
the addition of turpentine to prevent 
brlttleness and to make it melt even- 
ly, and of earthy matters to increase 
the weight and to prevent its melting 
too quickly. Pale or bleached shellac 
is used for light-colored sealing wax, 
but common shellac is equally suit- 
able for darker colors. Sealing wax 
is frequently adulterated with com- 
mon rosin, beeswax, stearin, and simi- 
lar materials. The addition of too 
much rosin or turpentine causes the 
wax to run in thin drops when melt- 
ed. The addition of camphor or al- 
cohol causes sealing wax to melt eas- 
ily. The sealing wax of the Middle 



Ages consisted of beeswax mixed with 
turpentine and various coloring mat- 
ters. The finest qualities of sealing 
wax are frequently perfumed with 
balsam of Peru, storax, or various es- 
sential oils and essences. 

Colored Sealing Wax. — Various 
colors as desired may be imparted to 
sealing wax by the addition of cobalt 
blue, chrome yellow, bone black, ver- 
milion, and other pigments such as 
are used in paints. These are added 
in powdered form to the melted wax. 

To Make Best Red Sealing Wax.— 
Melt together with gentle heat 5 
ounces of shellac, IJ ounces of tur- 
pentine, and 31 ounces of vermilion. 

Or 3 ounces of shellac, 4 ounces of 
turpentine, IJ ounces of chalk or mag- 
nesia, 1 ounce of gypsum or zinc 
white, and | ounce of vermilion. 

Or 3J ounces of shellac, 3i ounces 
of turpentine, 1 ounce of chalk or 
magnesia, i ounce of sulphate of bary- 
ta, and IJ ounces of vermilion. Use 
Venetian turpentine preferably in 
these three. Melt together, stirring 
constantly, and when all the ingredi- 
ents are fully incorporated let the 
mass cool, and while still soft roU it 
on a. marble or other smooth slab and 
shape it into sticks, or pour it while 
fluid into suitable brass molds. 

An inferior sealing wax may be 
made by substituting red oxide of 
iron in the place of vermilion, and 
common rosin or New Zealand rosin in 
place of shellac. 

Or dissolve with gentle heat J ounce 
of gum camphor in 2 ounces of alco- 
hol, taking care that the alcohol does 
not take fire. Add 8 ounces of gum 
shellac and stir until fully dissolved. 
Add 4 ounces of Venetian turpen- 
tine and sift in through a hair or oth- 
er sieve 2§ ounces of vermilion, stir- 
ring constantly to avoid lumps. When 
the whole mass is mixed smoothly to- 
gether, pour it into suitable molds, or 
let cool until of the consistency of 
soft wax. Roll to proper thickness 
and cut out with a suitable die like a 
biscuit cutter. Or weigh into soft 
balls of equal size, roll to the desired 
length, and flatten by pressure. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



375 



For' commercial use, the sticks of 
sealing wax are polished by being 
held over a charcoal fire in an iron 
dish, and while hot rubbed with mut- 
ton suet or tallow and polished with 
chamois. 

Or, for a larger quantity, melt to- 
gether with gentle heat 2 pounds of 
shellac, 12 ounces of Venetian tur- 
pentine, IJ pounds ,of fine cinnabar, 
and 2 ounces of Venetian red. 

Other proportions recommended for 
fine sealing wax are: 

Shellac, 6 parts; Venetian turpen- 
tine, 2 parts ; coloring matter, 3 parts. 

Shellac, 3 parts; Venetian turpen- 
tine, IJ parts; vermilion, 3i parts. 

For a cheaper grade of red sealing 
wax, melt together with gentle heat 2 
ounces of rosin and 2 ounces of shel- 
lac; stir in IJ ounces of Venetian tur- 
pentine; sift and stir in IJ ounces of 
red lead. 

Or melt together with gentle heat 
shellac, 2 ounces; yellow rosin, 1 
ounce; Venetian turpentine, 1 ounce; 
vermilion, 3 ounces. 

Or, for a stUl cheaper grade, sub- 
stitute red oxide of iron in place of 
vermilion. 

Yellow Sealing Wax. — Melt to- 
gether with gentle heat 2 ounces of 
shellac, 2 ounces of yellow rosin, and 
1 ounce of chrome yellow. 

Or 4 ounces of pale shellac, IJ 
ounces of yellow rosin, | ounce of 
Venetian turpentine, and 1 oimce of 
sulphuret of arsenic. 

Gold Sealing Wax. — Melt together 
bleached shellac, 1 ounce; Venetian 
turpentine, J ounce. Stir in gold-col- 
ored talc to color. 

Or bleached shellac, 3 ounces ; Vene- 
tian turpentine, 1 ounce; Dutch leaf 
ground to powder or enough gold- 
colored mica spangles to color. 

Blue Sealing Wax. — Melt together 
shellac, 2 ounces; yellow rosin, 2 
ounces; smalts, 1 ounce. 

Or, for a light blue, verditer in 
place of smalts. 

Or a mixture of equal- parts of 
smalts and verditer. 

Or employ any of the above recipes 
for fine red sealing wax, including ver- 



milion, but substitute in place of ver- 
milion the same quantity of fine Prus- 
sian blue. 

Green Sealing Wax. — Melt togeth- 
er shellac, 2 ounces; yellow rosin, 1 
ounce; verdigris, 1 ounce. 

Black Sealing Wax. — Follow any 
of the above recipes, but substitute 
finely powdered ivory black instead 
of other coloring matter, using only 
enough to give the required color. 

Or, for a cheaper grade, use lamp- 
black. 

Or melt together 3 ounces of black 
rosin, i ounce of beeswax, and 1 ounce 
of ivory black. 

Or 3 ounces of shellac, IJ ounces of 
Venetian turpentine, and 2 ounces of 
cinnabar. 

White Sealing Wax. — Melt togeth- 
er 3 ounces of white wax, 2 ounces of 
stearin, and 1 ounce of mucilage. 

Or 3 ounces of resin, 1 ounce of 
caustic soda, and S ounces of water. 
Add 4J ounces of plaster of Paris. 
This mixture requires upward of an 
hour to set, but adheres very strongly 
and takes a good impression. 

Soft Sealing Wax. — Melt together 
1 ounce of yellow rosin, 4 ounces of 
beeswax, 1 ounce of lard, and 1 ounce 
of Venetian turpentine. 

Or 8 ounces of beeswax, 6 ounces 
of olive oil, and IS ounces of Venetian 
turpentine. 

Or 11 ounces of beeswax, 3 ounces 
of turpentine, 1 ounce of olive oil, and 
5 ounces of shellac. Any color may 
be given to the above by the use of 
suitable colored pigments, as ver- 
milion, red lead, or red oxide of iron 
for red, verdigris for green, chrome 
for yellow, smalts or verditer for blue, 
and so on. 

Marble Sealing Wax. — Melt in two 
or more different vessels equal quan- 
tities of uncolored sealing wax, and 
add to each the coloring matter de- 
sired. Allow these to slightly cool, 
and stir them all together to make 
any desired effect. 

To Color Sealing Wax. — Add the 
coloring matter to sealing wax while 
in a fluid state on the fire by sifting 
in the pigments, in the form of a dry 



376 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



powder, through a hair or other fine 
sieve. To avoid lumps or spots, stir 
constantly until they are fully incor- 
porated. Let the mass cool slightly 
before pouring into the molds, and 
continue stirring while it is being 
poured, otherwise the coloring matter 
will tend to settle as a sediment in 
the lower part of the mold or of the 
vessel in which it is melted. 

To Perfume Sealing Wax. — Add to 
any of the above, when the mass has 
become slightly cooled, but before it 
sets, gum benzoin, storax, balsam of 
Peru, or any of the fragrant essential 
oils or essences. If added too soon, 
the heat will cause the perfumes to 
evaporate; if not added soon enough, 
it will be difficult to incorporate them 
perfectly with the mass. 

OILS, LUBBICATOBS, ETC. 

Oils. — Oils exist ready made in 
nature, and may be divided into fixed 
oils, which are either of animal or 
vegetable origin, and essential or vola- 
tile oils, which are principally vege- 
table products. 

Fixed oils are mostly liquid at or- 
dinary temperatures, smooth to the 
touch, and on paper make a perma- 
nent greasy stain. Many of them have 
neither taste nor odor. They are not, 
as a rule, soluble in water, and are 
only slightly soluble in alcohol, but 
may be readily dissolved in ether. The 
chief characteristic of the fixed oils 
is their ability to unite with alkalies 
to form soap, setting free glycerin. 

The volatile oils are not capable of 
saponification. 

Fixed Vegetable Oils. — The fixed 
vegetable oils, including certain but- 
terlike fats, as palm oil, cocoa oil, and 
the like, are usually found in plants: 
in the seeds, as linseed oil; in the pulp 
about the seeds, as olive oil, and more 
rarely in roots, as in the earth al- 
mond. They are procured by grind- 
ing and pressing the oil-producing 
parts, and are usually found associ- 
ated with more or less gum and other 
impurities. 

The fixed vegetable oils are of two 



sorts: the drying oils, as linseed oil, 
which oxidize when exposed to the 
air, and are transformed into a hard, 
resinous varnish; and the fatty or 
nondrying oils, as olive oil, which be- 
come rancid and thicken when exposed 
to the air, but do not dry up. 

To Purify Vegetable Oils. — To pu- 
rify crude vegetable oils, pour the oil 
in a lead-lined vat and add 3 or 3 
per cent of concentrated sulphuric 
acid. Stir until the mixture takes on 
a greenish tint. Let stand 34 hours, 
add about 2 per cent its volume of 
water, hot but not boiling, and stir 
vigorously until the mixture takes on 
a milky color. Then let stand in a 
warm place for a few days to settle, 
and pour off the clear liquor through 
cheese cloth or filter paper. 

To Prepare Drying Oils. — To im- 
prove the quality of drying oils, boil 
them with oxide of lead, binoxide of 
manganese, and borate or acetate of 
manganese. But this process gives 
the oil a high color. Hence, to make 
drying oils for colorless varnishes, 
prepare oleate of lead by adding oleic 
acid to oxide of lead or litharge, and 
add this to the oil when cold. 

Or prepare a solution of sulphate 
of manganese, and add borax dis' 
solved in water as long as a precipi' 
tate forms. Let this settle, turn ofl 
the liquor, wash the precipitate, and 
let it dry. This is manganese borate. 
Add 3 per cent of this substance to 
the oldest linseed oil obtainable, and 
mix with gentle heat in a double boil- 
er. Stir constantly, lifting the oil 
and letting it run back into the boiler, 
to expose it as much as possible to 
the air. This gives a quick-drying oil 
of very high color. 

A class of substances called dryers 
are added in painting to hasten the 
oxidation of the drying oils, but the 
rapidity of this process depends great- 
ly upon atmospheric conditions, tem- 
perature, and the like. 

7i?ixed Animal Oils. — These are 
compounds of glycerin with various 
fatty acids. They are very similar to 
the nondrying vegetable oils. Many 
of the animal oils have a peculiar 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



377 



odor, which in some of the fish oils 
is verjr offensive. Sperm oil is found 
in the head of the sperm whale mixed 
with spermaceti. This is the most 
valuable of the animal oils and also 
the highest in price. 

Whale or train oil is found in the 
blubber of the right whale, the black- 
fish, and other species of whale. Vari- 
ous other marine animals produce oils 
having the same general characteris- 
tics, as the seal, shark, and sea calf. 
The menhadens are also used in large 
quantities for their oil. 

To Purify Fish Oil.— Make for this 
purpose a bag of any coarse cloth, as 
burlap or canvas, line it with flannel, 
and put in between the bag and the 
lining a layer of charcoal J inch thick. 
The bag should be quilted to keep the 
charcoal in place. Pour the oil into 
this filter and let it run into a lead- 
lined vat containing water to the 
depth of 5 or 6 inches, slightly acidu- 
lated with blue vitriol. Let stand 
3 or 4 days, and draw off the oil by 
means of a spigot fixed slightly above 
the level of the water. Repeat if nec- 
essary. Finally filter through cloth 
bags without charcoal into tanks or 
barrels for storage. 

To Deodorize Putrid Fish Oil. — For 
each 100 pounds of oil, pulverize 1 
pound of chloride of lime; rub to a 
stiff paste with a little cold water, and 
thin to the consistency of cream. Pour 
the oil into a lead-lined vat, stir in 
the chloride of lime, and let stand 
3 or 4p hours, stirring frequently. 
Add 1 pound of sulphuric acid di- 
luted in 25 times its volume of water, 
and boll in an iron kettle on a slow 
fire, stirring constantly. When the 
mixture is perfectly liquid and falls 
in drops from the stirrer, return to 
the vat, and when the oil has separat- 
ed, draw off the water by means of a 
spigot. 

To Preserve Animal Oils. — Add 1 
dram of powdered slippery-elm bark 
to each pound of oil, and heat gently 
over a slow fire. When the bark set- 
tles, strain off the fat. This gives an 
agreeable odor to the oil and pre- 
vents it fronj becoming rancid. 



To Restore Bancid Animal Oils. — 
Put the oil in a suitable kettle over 
a slow fire, and stir in clean lumps 
or grains of charcoal from which the 
dust has been removed by winnowing 
with fans. 

Or prepare double bags of flannel 
containing a layer of charcoal be- 
tween, and filter the oil through these. 
Neat's-foot Oil. — This is a coarse 
animal oil obtained by boiling neat's 
feet, tripe, etc., in water. It is very 
emollient and is much used to soften 
leather. In the commercial process 
the feet are heated with steam until 
the hair, wool, and dirt can be re- 
moved, and afterwards boiled until 
the oil is extracted. The crude oil is 
of a grayish color, but when clarified 
by iiltration is of a pale-lemon yellow. 
It is often adulterated. 

To Purify Keat's-foot Oil. — Mix 
with gentle heat, stirring vigorously, 
equal parts of neat's-foot oil and rose 
water. When cool, the oil will rise to 
the surface and may be ladled off. 
Repeat if necessary. The refined oil 
is the basis of the best grades of cold 
cream. 

Lubricants. — Lubricants are materi- 
als used to lessen the friction of work- 
ing parts of machinery. All of the 
animal and vegetable nondrying oils 
are suitable; also the mineral oils, as 
petroleum products; and plumbago, 
graphite, or black lead, which is the 
only solid lubricant in common use. 
These substances are often mixed for 
lubricating purposes. Sperm oil is 
the best of lubricants, but is too ex- 
pensive for ordinary use. Lard oil is 
cheap and good. Neat's-foot oil is also 
used. Olive oil, colza, and rape-seed 
oils are suitable. 

Lubricants for Heavy Pressure. — 
Grind black lead with 4 times its 
weight of lard or tallow. Add, if de- 
sired, 7 per cent of gum camphor. 
This was formerly a trade secret. 

Or mix puie black lead with tal- 
low. 

Or mix tallow with red or white 
lead, or substitute lard for tallow. 

Or add a portion of heavy mineral 
oil to any of the above. 



378 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Axle Grease. — For axle grease, mix 
3 pounds of tallow, 3 pounds of palm 
oil, i poimd of caustic soda, and 1 
gallon or more of water. Melt to- 
gether and evaporate the water with 
gentle heat, but do not let the mixture 
boil. 

Or boil up together 30 ounces of 
palm oil with 38 ounces of tallow. 
Remove from the fire and stir con- 
stantly until it cools to a blood heat. 
Strain through cheese cloth into a 
solution of 8 ounces of soda in 1 gill 
of water, mixing thoroughly. This 
mixture is suitable for summer heat. 
For cold weather, use 20 ounces of tal- 
low to 38 ounces of palm oU. Or, for 
average temperatures, 20 ounces of 
each. 

Lubricator for Drills. — For iron 
drills, use 4 ounces of soft soap to 1 
quart of boiling water. This is cheap 
and effective. 

Wood Lubricator. — ^Lubricate wood- 
en bearings, as pulleys and the like, 
with common hard yellow soap or 
soft soap, taking care to evaporate 
with gentle heat any excess of water 
the latter may contain. Rub window 
casings, bureau drawers, and the like 
freely with hard yellow soap slightly 
moistened with water. This lubricates 
them permanently and prevents their 
sticking. 

To Purify Lubricants. — The animal 
and vegetable oils of commerce, as 
neat's-foot oil, rape oU, and the like, 
often show traces of the acids used in 
purifying them, and these are likely 
to injure the works of clocks, watches, 
sewing machines, and other delicate 
machinery. Hence, to purify com- 
mercial oils for such uses, put them 
in a vessel containing a quantity of 
rusty iron and let stand for a few 
days, then strain through silk or cot- 
ton wool. 

Or pour the best olive oil into a 
glass bottle, and add equal parts of 
zinc and lead shavings. Let stand in 
a cool place until the oil becomes 
transparent. 

Or use lead shavings only and ex- 
pose the oil to the sun for several 
weeks. A white precipitate will be 



formed, and the oil will become per- 
fectly transparent. Strain through 
silk the pure liquor from the sedi- 
ment and bottle for use. This oil will 
not injure the most delicate machin- 
ery. 

Oil for Whetstones. — Use kerosene 
oU on whetstones, oilstones, or for 
mixing other abrasives. It keeps the 
stone in good condition, and also as- 
sists in the process of sharpening. 

To Straighten Oilstones. — An oil- 
stone, after having been used for some 
time, becomes concave and does not 
give a good edge. To face a worn 
oilstone, take a flat piece of iron or 
steel having a perfectly smooth face, 
back it with a wooden grip or handle, 
and rub down the face of the oilstone 
with a mixture of emery and powdered 
pumice stone in water. Finish with 
the finest emery or pumice and kero- 
sene oil. This gives with very little 
effort a smooth, flat face. 

FTTENITTIEE POLISH 

Holes in Pornitnre. — To fill up 
cracks or holes in furniture, make a 
thick glue size by boiling pure white 
glue with water to the consistency of 
milk or thin cream. Mix with fine 
sawdust from the same or similar 
wood to make a stiff paste. With this 
fill the holes and cover deep cuts and 
rough surfaces. When dry, thorough- 
ly scrape down with an edge of bro- 
ken glass and polish. 

To Color Mahogany Furniture. — 
Use cold-drawn linseed oil colored 
with alkanet root or rose pink, or a 
mixture of equal parts of both. Put 
the coloring matter in an earthen ves- 
sel, cover with the oil, and let stand 
a day or two, stirring frequently. Rub 
on with a soft cloth, and let stand 
several hours before polishing. 

French Polish. — This consists in 
rubbing shellac or other varnish on 
the surface of the wood with a cloth, 
instead of laying on a coating with a 
brush. The object is to get a very 
thin coating of varnish with a high 
polish and hard surface, not so liable 
to scratch as a thicker coat would be. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



379 



French polish is most suitable for 
hard woods. To prepare a porous or 
coarse-grained wood for French pol- 
ish, give it a coat of clear glue size. 
Let dry, and smooth with very fine 
sandpaper, followed by a cloth mois- 
tened in water and dipped in fine dry 
pumice or rotten stone. This fills up 
the pores, and thus prevents a waste 
of time, polish, and labor. 

To finish with a. French polish any 
previous coating, all varnish should 
be removed and the surface given a 
smooth, dead finish with sandpaper, 
followed by a cloth moistened and 
dipped in fine pumice or rotten stone. 

To apply the varnish, moisten a 
small square pad made of several 
thicknesses of flannel sewed or quilted 
together, and apply the middle of the 
cloth to the mouth of the bottle. Thus 
the pad will take up a small quantity 
of varnish, but sufficient to cover a 
considerable surface. Then lay the 
pad on a piece of soft linen cloth, 
double the whole back over the edges, 
and close it up at the back of the pad 
to form a handle. Apply a little raw 
linseed oil with the tip of the finger 
to the middle, place the work in a 
good light, and rub quickly and light- 
ly over the surface with quick, light, 
circular strokes. Always work from 
the' center outward. Continue until 
the varnish becomes nearly dry. Mois- 
ten the pad again, but without the 
oil, and give two additional coats. 
Moisten the pad slightly with oil, and 
finish with two additional coats of 
varnish. Lastly, wet the inside of the 
linen cloth with alcohol before taking 
up the varnish pad, and rub over the 
whole surface. Polish vdth oil and 
alcohol, without varnish, using a clean 
linen cloth. To give a fine French 
polish, soft clean linen must be used 
and the atmosphere must be entirely 
free from dust. Use no more varnish 
each time than can be rubbed to a 
high polish, and continue rubbing un- 
til the rag seems dry. 

To Prepare French Polish. — Mix 4 
ounces of shellac, 1 ounce of gum 
arable, and i ounce of gum copal. 
Bruise and mix the gums with 3 



ounces of powdered glass. Cover them 
with 1 pint of alcohol and cork tight- 
ly. Let stand in a warm place, shak- 
ing frequently until dissolved. Strain 
through silk or muslin. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of gum shellac 
and i ounce of gum sandarac in 1 
pint of alcohol. 

Or dissolve 5J ounces of shellac in 
1 pint of naphtha. 

Or mix 1 ounce of pale shellac with 
3 drams of gum benzoin, and cover 
with 4 ounces of wood naphtha. Cork 
tightly and let stand in a warm place, 
shaking frequently until dissolved. 

Or mix 1 pound of shellac with 1 
quart of wood naphtha. 

Or shellac, 8 ounces; mastic, J 
ounce; sandarac, J ounce; copal var- 
nish, i gill; alcohol, 1 quart. Mix, 
cork tightly, and let stand until dis- 
solved. Pour off the clear liquor. 

To apply any of the above, moisten 
a pad of cotton wool with the polish 
by laying it on the mouth of the bot- 
tle and inverting the bottle. Cover 
with a linen rag, apply a drop of cold 
linseed oil with the finger to the cen- 
ter of the rag to keep it from stick- 
ing, and rub with light, firm strokes 
and uniform pressure in circles, work- 
ing from the center. Finish with a 
few drops of alcohol or turpentine on 
a clean linen rag. 

To Color French Polish. — Mix the 
coloring matter with the polish and 
let stand two or three days, stirring 
frequently, until all is fully incor- 
porated. For red, use dragon's blood, 
alkanet root, or red sanderswood. 
For yellow, turmeric root or gum 
gamboge. For brown, seed-lac or 
brown shellac. 

Or dip the pad of cotton wool used 
as a rubber in the color each time it 
is moistened with the polish. Then 
cover the rubber with a linen cloth, 
apply a drop of cold-drawn linseed 
oil, and polish. Use the ordinary col- 
oring matters, as dragon's blood for 
red, chrome for yellow, ultramarine 
or indigo for blue, and ivory black or 
lampblack for black. 

To Grain French Polish. — To grain 
any color with French polish, move 



S80 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the rubber when applying the color 
in irregular patterns. Streak, line, or 
mark the wood, according to taste. 
When dry, apply a. coating of clear 
polish and finish as usual. 

To Finish French Folish. — Dissolve 
4 drams of shellac and 4 drams of 
gum benzoin in 1 pint of 95 per cent 
alcohol by corking tightly in a glass 
bottle and shaking occasionally until 
dissolved. Let cool and add 4 tea- 
spoonfuls of white poppy oil. Shake 
well before using. Use for final coats 
to give an extra high finish. 

To Polish Varnished Furniture. — 
First apply finely powdered pumice 
stone with a piece of flannel mois- 
tened with water. Rub the varnished 
surface with light, uniform strokes, 
working from the center with a cir- 
cular motion. Follow with finely pow- 
dered tripoli, using a woolen cloth 
or chamois moistened with olive oil. 
Care must be taken not to use more 
strength than is necessary to give a 
smooth surface. Wipe off the tripoli 
with a soft cloth, let dry, and apply 
whiting with the palm of the hand. 

To Wax Furniture. — Melt with gen- 
tle heat 2 ounces each of white wax 
and yellow wax, and add 4 ounces 
of best rectified turpentine. Remove 
from the fire and stir until cold. This 
gives a thin coat, as the oil penetrates 
the pores of the wood, brings out the 
grain and color, and causes the wax 
to adhere. When polished, it gives a 
luster equal to varnish. 

Polishing. — To polish furniture or 
cabinetwork in general, work down 
the surface with sandpaper, smooth 
with glass paper, and polish with rot- 
ten stone, putty powder, and tripoli 
in the order mentioned. Apply pumice 
stone with a cloth moistened with 
water, and tripoli with a cloth mois- 
tened with olive oil or boiled linseed 
oil. 

Wood Filler. — To fill the pores and 
other rough places as a foundation for 
varnish or French polish, apply, for 
cheap work, a thin glue size. Or, for 
a better grade, apply a thin coat of 
boiled linseed oil, sprinkle the surface 
with dry whiting, and rub it in with 



the palm of the hand, or a short, stiff 
paint brush. After filling the wood, 
let dry, give a coating of French pol- 
ish or varnish, and rub down with 
very fine glass paper. This gives a 
foundation on which to lay the var- 
nish or final coats of polish. Thus 
the whiting is absorbed by the oil, and 
the pores of the wood are filled with 
putty, which will last indefinitely and 
not be affected by damp air or water. 

Or, for the best grades, mix plaster 
of Paris with whiting, and apply with 
a brush. Follow with a coating of 
tallow, and color with any desired 
coloring matter. 

Or mix the whiting, tallow, and col- 
oring matter together, and rub them 
into the work. 

Or mix 1 gallon of plaster of Paris 
with J pint of flour, J ounce of pow- 
dered pumice stone, J ounce of pre- 
pared chalk, 1 quart of boiled lin- 
seed oil, and J gill of japan dryer. 

One coat of varnish on such a foun- 
dation will give a better and more 
durable finish than three coats laid 
directly on the surface of the wood, 
as in the latter case the varnish en- 
ters the pores of the wood and does 
not dry smoothly. 

To Color Wood Filler. — For black 
walnut, mix burnt umber with whit- 
ing; for cherry, Venetian red; for 
beech or maple, just a suspicion of 
Venetian red. Stir in just enough 
coloring matter to imitate the natural 
colors of the wood. 

Or, if tallow is used, it may be col- 
ored with dragon's blood, gum gam- 
boge, or otherwise if desired. 

Fix circular articles in a lathe, and 
apply the filler with the hands or with 
a piece of velveteen or other stiff 
cloth. 

To Polish Furniture. — Substances 
recommended for polishing furniture 
are kerosene, turpentine, olive oil, lin- 
seed oil, and paraffin oil, beeswax, 
white wax, castile soap, gum copal, 
gum arable, shellac, and various com- 
binations of these and similar sub- 
stances. 

To keep furniture at a high polish, 
go over it once a week on cleaning 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



381 



day with a, clean cloth moistened in 
clear turpentine. This keeps the paint 
soft so that it will not crack, and it 
is not sticky after it has been pol- 
ished. 

Or use equal quantities of turpen- 
tine and linseed oil, or equal quanti- 
ties of turpentine, linseed oil, and vin- 
egar. 

To improve the appearance of lin- 
seed oil, add 1 or 3 ounces of alkanet 
root to 1 pint of oil, boil gently, and 
strain through cheese cloth. 

Or mix equal quantities of linseed 
oil and turpentine, and to each pint 
of the mixture add 1 teaspoonful of 
ammonia. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of hard white 
soap in J pint of water, and add 6 
ounces of white wax dissolved in J 
pint of turpentine. Dissolve aU with 
gentle heat, mix, and bottle for use. 

Or melt J ounce of alkanet root 
with 8 ounces of beeswax, and simmer 
with gentle heat. Strain through cheese 
cloth and add 4 ounces each of linseed 
oil and spirits of turpentine. 

Or melt 4 ounces of beeswax with 
gentle heat, and add while warm 8 
ounces of spirits of turpentine. Stir 
until the mixture cools. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of beeswax and 
i ounce of castile soap in 1 pint of 
turpentine. Put in a quart bottle and 
let stand for a day or two, shaking 
occasionally. Fill the bottle with 
water, shake, and let stand for an- 
other day, when it should be of the 
consistency of cream. Apply with a 
flannel cloth or damp chamois. 

Or dissolve J ounce each of pulver- 
ized rosin and gum shellac in 1 pint 
of pure alcohol. Add 1 pint of lin- 
seed oil, mix, and apply with a soft 
brush, a. sponge, or a piece of flannel. 
Polish with moistened chamois or a 
bunch of tissue paper or soft news- 
paper. 

Or add 1 pint of spirits of turpen- 
tine to the above. 

Or dissolve 2 ounces of gum shellac 
in 1 pint of alcohol. Add 1 pint of 
linseed oil and ^ pint of spirits of 
turpentine. Mix and add 3 ounces of 
ammonia water and 2 ounces of sul- 



phuric ether. Shake before using. 
Apply with a brush, sponge, or soft 
cloth. 

Or mix equal quantities of gum 
shellac, kerosene, linseed oil, and tur- 
pentine. Shake before using, and ap- 
ply with a sponge or brush. After- 
wards polish. 

Or dissolve in 1 pint of alcohol i 
ounce each of gum copal, gum arabic, 
and shellac. Apply with a sponge or 
brush. This is known as French polish. 

Or paint the surface with a liberal 
application of olive oil, and let stand 
to soften the varnish. Then follow 
with a solution of 3 ounces of gum 
arabic dissolved in 1 pint of alcohol. 
Apply while warm. This is known as 
Italian polish. 

Or mix 1 pound of linseed oil, 3 
ounces of wax, 4 ounces of shellac 
varnish, and 1 ounce of alkanet root 
to color. Dissolve with gentle heat 
and stir while dissolving. Take off 
the fire after IS or 20 minutes, 
strain through cheese cloth, and add 
3 ounces of turpentine, mix, and let 
stand a few days, stirring occasion- 
ally. Shake well before using. 

Or dissolve with gentle heat in 1 
pound of boiled linseed oil 4 ounces 
of beeswax and 1 ounce of alkanet 
root. Strain through cheese rloth, 
and add 4 ounces of turpentine. 

Or mix 4 ounces each of linseed oil 
and vinegar, add J ounce of alcohol, 
J ounce of butter of antimony, and i 
ounce of muriatic acid. Apply with 
a sponge, rag, or brush, wipe dry, and 
polish. Shake well before using. Ap- 
ply this mixture to clean stained, 
greasy, or waxed substances. 

Or mix 8 ounces of linseed oil, 4 
ounces of vinegar, 2 ounces of black 
rosin, 3 ounces of spirits of niter, 1 
ounce of spirits of salts, and 3 ounces 
of butter of antimony. First sponge 
the furniture with clear water or 
cold tea. Apply this mixture with a 
sponge or cloth. Oil, polish, and let 
dry. Then follow with a cloth slight- 
ly moistened in cold vinegar. 

To Prepare Furniture Polish. — 
White wax, beeswax, gum copal, shel- 
lac, and other solid resinous sub- 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



stances may be cut or dissolved in 
turpentine, alcohol, or other spirits. 
This process may require several days 
if the ingredients are cold, but is 
much hastened by the use of heat, 
and also by pulverizing or shaving 
the solids as finely as possible. Hence, 
to prepare furniture polish contain- 
ing these ingredients, shave or polish 
them as fine as possible, and pour 
over them turpentine, alcohol, or 
other spirits as required. Use for 
this purpose a glass fruit jar or a 
wide-mouthed glass bottle. Cork 
tightly and set the bottle in a warm 
spot until the solids are dissolved. 

Or rest the bottle on straw or a 
folded cloth and put them in a sauce- 
pan. Fill the saucepan partly full of 
cold water, and bring to a boil with 
gentle heat. This is the best and 
quickest way to cut wax, gum, and 
other resinous substances with spirits, 
and also to melt glue and the like. 
The best results may be obtained by 
applying while warm furniture polish 
containing such substances; hence, be- 
fore applying, the bottle may be heat- 
ed by the method just given. 

Gum arable, on the contrary, can- 
not be dissolved in alcohol. Hence 
pulverize gum arable as fine as possi- 
ble, and dissolve with a little boiling 
water before mixing with other in- 
gredients. Furniture polish contain- 
ing gum arable gives the best results 
when applied warm. 

To Clean Furniture. — Dissolve 4 
ounces of common salt in 1 quart of 
cold beer or vinegar. Add 1 table- 
spoonful of muriatic acid. Boil 16 
minutes, bottle, and cork tightly. 
-Warm and shake well before using. 
First sponge the furniture with clear 
water. Apply this mixture with a 
brush or sponge and polish with any 
of the above kinds of polish, using a 
flannel cloth or damp chamois. 

Or dissolve in 1 quart of strong 
beer or vinegar 2 ounces of beeswax 



and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. First 
wash the furniture vrith clear water or 
cold tea. Apply this mixture with a 
sponge or brush. Oil, wipe dry, and 
polish. 

To Polish Wood Carving. — The 
carvings of furniture may be filled, 
cleaned, and polished by means of 
brushes, using a stiff brush to clean 
out the dust, then a soft brush dipped 
in suitable polish, and finally a clean 
dry brush with medium hard bristles 
to give a polish. 

Paste for Furniture. — For light 
wood, cover 8 ounces of beeswax 
scraped fine with 1 pint of turpen- 
tine, cork tightly, and let stand, shak- 
ing occasionally until dissolved. 

Or cover 3 ounces of pearleish with 
1 pint of water, and bring to a boU. 
Stir in 3 ounces of white wax scraped 
fine, and simmer with gentle heat 
25 minutes. Let cool, and make into 
a soft paste with a little hot water. 

Or mix 2 ounces of beeswax, 2 
ounces of rectified turpentine, and 2 
ounces of cold-drawn linseed oil. 

Or dissolve in J pint of turpentine 
6 ounces of white wax. Cork tightly 
and let stand in a warm place until 
dissolved, shaking frequently. Cover 
1 ounce of castile soap with 2 gills of 
water, bring to a boil, and mix with 
the wax and turpentine. This is a 
standard commercial article. 

Paste for Mahogany Furniture. — 
Moisten 2 ounces of beeswax shavings 
with turpentine, add J ounce of rosin, 
melt to a paste with gentle heat, and 
color with Venetian red. 

Or pour over J ounce of alkanet 
root 1 pint of turpentine. Let stand 
48 hours. Strain through muslin. 
Add 4 ounces of beeswax shavings, 
cork tightly, and let stand, shaking 
occasionally until dissolved. 

Or mix and dissolve 4 ounces of 
beeswax shavings, 1 ounce of rosin, 
and 2 ounces of turpentine. Color 
with Venetian red. 



CHAPTER XIV 

THE FAMILY WORKROOM 

Part Three — Metal Work 

THE METALS ANB THEIR PROPERTIES— IRON AND STEEL-COPPER 
AND ITS ALLOYS, BRASS, BRONZE, ETC.— LEAD AND ITS ALLOYS 
—TIN AND ITS ALLOYS, SOLDER, ETC.— ZINC AND ITS ALLOYS 
—NICKEL AND ITS ALLOYS— ALUMINUM AND ITS ALLOYS— AN- 
TIMONY AND ITS ALLOYS— MERCURY AND ITS AMALGAMS- 
COATING METALS WITH OTHER METALS BY ELECTRICITY 
AND OTHERWISE— ELECTROPLATING AND ELECTROTYPING— 
LACQUER FOR METALS — PRECIOUS METALS — GOLD AND 
SILVER 

THE UIITALS USD THEIB weight in comparison with water, is 

FBOFEBTIES as follows: 

Uetals. — Metals are substances that Platinum in thin wire 21 .50 

have a peculiar high luster, known 9°^^ J2"fR 

J. 11- 1 i n^i. Mercury 13.59 

as metallic luster. They are very Lead 11.45 

dense and, as a rule, very heavy. No BiHnuth ^9 90 

light can pass through any of the Copper.....!!!!!!.!!!!!!!!! 8!96 

metals except gold, which can be beat- h-on ^' 779 

en so fine that a greenish light will Tin.'.'.'.'.'.'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 7!29 

pass through it. In color the metals i*?t1min'y .'.'.'.'.'.! !!!!!!! ■.^-.^^"Ul 

are mostly white, but zinc and lead Aluminum 2.56-2.67 

have a bluish, bismuth a reddish, and „, „ . ... 

calcium a yeUowish, color. Gold Is Fusibility - The fusing point of 

yellow, and copper is red. Metals metals, or the degree of temperature 

are approximately from five to twen- f q"''-^'! to melt them into liqmd 

ty times as heavy as water, except ^°^' '^ as follows: 

magnesia and aluminum, which are Mercury 39 . 44 

lighter than water. The principal Tin.....'.'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 227! 8 

qualities of the metals are maUeabil- L^IT.'!".'.'.'! !!!!!!!!!!!!! 325' 

ity, or the property of being flattened Zinc 412 

by blows; ductility, or the property Klver""^'.'.'.'.'.'!!!!!!!!!! 1,023 

of being drawn into wire ; conductiv- S°??®"' 1 '102 

ity, or the property of transmitting (j^^ j^o^; !;!!!!!!!!!!!!! i;530 
heat; fusibility, or the quality of be- 
ing melted; volatility, or the property Conductivity.— In the property of 
of turning into vapors; and hardness. transmitting heat, if silver be taken 
In all of these particulars the metals as a basis at 1,000, copper would be 
vary greatly, some of their important represented by 736, gold 533, tin 145, 
characteristics being shown by the fol- iron 119, lead 85, platinum 84, bis- 
lowing tables. muth 18. 

The Specific Gravity of metals at The handle of a solid-silver spoon 

a temperature of 15i° C, that is, their placed in hot tea or coffee is a well- 



384 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



known illustration of the conductivity 
of silver. 

Malleability. — Gold is highly malle- 
able, and has been beaten into films 
of which 300,000 are required to make 
1 inch in thickness. Silver is also very 
malleable, and so to a less degree are 
copper, tin, and platinum. 

Ductility. — The most ductile metals 
are iron, copper, platinum, silver, gold, 
zinc, tin, and lead, in the order 
named. 

Hardness. — Metals vary in hardness 
at ordinary temperatures, from mer- 
cury, which is a fluid, to chromium 
and magnesium, which are capable of 
scratching glass and chilled steel. 

There are forty-nine elements re- 
garded as metals, but only a few of 
these are useful in the arts. In addi- 
tion to the metals, however, are a 
number of mixtures of two or more 
metals, known as alloys. 

Alloys. — The alloys are mixtures or 
compounds of two or more metals 
melted together. Thus brass is an 
alloy of copper and zinc ; bronze is an 
alloy of copper and tin; pewter is 
an alloy of tin and lead. The metals 
composing alloys unite in various pro- 
portions, and the properties of the 
alloys and their application in the 
arts vary considerably with their com- 
position. 

In coinage, the term alloy is used 
to mean a baser metal mixed with 
gold or silver to make the combina- 
tion harder. British gold coin con- 
tains 11 parts of pure gold and 1 part 
of copper. United States gold coin 
contains in 1,000 parts of coin 900 
parts of gold, the alloy being about 
9 parts copper and 1 part silver. 

An alloy of mercury with any other 
metal is known as an amalgam. 

Alloys are not formed by the chem- 
ical union of their different com- 
ponents, but by the diifusion of one 
metal through the other en masse. 
Metals fuse at different degrees of 
heat, and care should be taken to 
melt first the metals which melt at the 
lowest degree of temperature, and to 
cover these with a flux of charcoal, 
ground glass, or other material to 



prevent the volatile metals from evap- 
orating before the union is effected. 

For instance, zinc melts at a low 
degree of heat, and when heated to 
the point at which copper melts zinc 
becomes volatile and passes off in 
fumes; therefore in making brass, 
which is an alloy of copper with zinc, 
it is necessary to first melt the zinc 
under a flux and add the copper slow- 
ly, using no more heat than is neces- 
sary; or to place in the crucible first 
the zinc, then the copper, and the flux 
over all. 

The harder metals should be finely 
divided in grains, shavings, or filings 
so that they will melt more easily. 
When mixing metals, it is necessary 
to note all changes that take place 
and use good judgment. Experience 
is better than hearsay. 

Amalgams. — Metals will usually 
combine with each other if one of 
them is in a state of fluidity. ^ Mer- 
cury, being a fluid at ordinary tem- 
peratures, will amalgamate with most 
of the other metals in the cold, but 
heat affects the amalgamation more 
quickly. To amalgamate in the cold, 
it is only necessary to divide in very 
small particles, as grains, shavings, or 
filings, the metal to be united with 
mercury. To make amalgams by heat, 
as is necessary with most metals, heat 
the mercury until it begins to simmer, 
and raise the grains of metal to be 
amalgamated to a red heat. Then add 
them a little at a time. 

Gold or silver may be amalgamated 
with mercury by simply stirring the 
two metals together with a glass rod 
and pouring the resulting mixture 
into cold water. This is the amalgam 
used for gilding or silvering. After 
being applied, it is exposed to heat to 
evaporate the mercury. Lead or tin 
may be amalgamated by melting 
either metal, adding an equal weight 
of mercury, and stirring with an iron 
or glass rod. 

Copper amalgamates with great dif- 
ficulty, and iron not at all; hence iron 
is the one metal (except platinum) 
which should be allowed to come in 
contact with mercury. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



385 



IRON AND STEEL 

Pure iron is a silvery-white metal 
having a mild but brilliant luster. It 
is rarely seen in a pure state. Com- 
mercial iron and steel comprise a se- 
ries of alloys of iron with carbon, man- 
ganese,, chrome, nickel, tungsten, and 
other metals. These alloys have vari- 
ous names, depending in some cases 
upon the added metal, as nickel steel, 
and in other cases upon the process 
of manufacture, as pig iron, wrought 
iron, steel, etc. 

The qualities of iron vary in its 
different forms. The more carbon 
it contains, the darker it becomes. 
Wrought iron is in fibers and can be 
bent and welded. Steel and cast iron 
are in crystals, and are hard and brit- 
tle. Iron is seven or eight times as 
heavy as water, according to condi- 
tion. It transmits heat in comparison 
with silver about as 12 to 100. It is 
one of the hardest of metals, and also 
among the most difficult to melt, but 
varies from hardened steel, which is 
the hardest of metals, to wrought iron 
and pure iron, which are nearly as 
soft as copper. Ordinary cast iron 
is about three to five times as hard as 
copper. Iron wire -[is of ^•n inch in 
diameter may be drawn to a length of 
49,000 feet without breaking. 

Pig Iron. — This is an alloy of iron 
with from 1.5 to 7 per cent of car- 
bon. It is produced in a blast fur- 
nace, and shaped by casting it into 
molds. It is brittle and much easier 
to melt than wrought iron or steel. 
This is the crude product, usually 
first made from the ore and worked 
up into other forms by various proc- 
esses of manufacture. 

Wrought Iron. — This consists of 
crystals of an alloy of iron with a 
very little carbon held together by 
melted cinder or silicate added in the 
process of manufacture. It is very 
difficult to melt, but before melting 
becomes pasty, in which condition two 
pieces may be welded together. It does 
not harden. While plastic it may be 
hammered or rolled to any desired 
shape, which it will retain on cooling. 

Steel. — This is a compound of iron 



obtained by casting in a fluid state, 
so as to give a malleable product. The 
distinguishing properties of steel are 
that it can be fused, welded, and 
hardened by tempering. It contains 
from .075 to 1.6 per cent of carbon. 

The addition of more carbon makes 
steel easier to melt, but harder to weld. 

Compounds of Iron. — Among well- 
known compounds of iron are cya- 
nides of iron with potassium, known 
as red and yellow prussiate of potash 
and Prussian blue. Also the mixture 
of sulphur with iron known as green 
vitriol or copperas, used in dyeing, in 
the manufacture of inks, as a deodo- 
rizer, etc. 

To Temper Iron and Steel. — The 
alloys of iron and steel containing .05 
per cent or more of carbon are capar- 
ble of being hardened or tempered by 
heating to redness and plunging into 
some cooling liquid. The carbon which 
was formerly mixed mechanically with 
the iron is chemically dissolved in the 
iron by this process. Temper may af- 
terwards be withdrawn by reheating. 

To Caseharden Iron or Steel. — Mix 
in powdered form equal parts of prus- 
siate of potash, sal ammoniac, and 
saltpeter. Heat the iron to redness, 
roll it in this mixture, and quench it 
in a bath of cold water containing 2 
ounces of prussiate of potash and 4 
ounces of sal ammoniac to each gallon. 

Or dissolve in 30 gallons of water 
1 bushel of salt, J pound of prussiate 
of potash, i pound of cyanide of pot- 
ash, and J pint of oil of vitriol; heat 
the iron to redness and quench in this 
mixture. 

To Soften Iron or Steel. — To drill 
hard iron or steel, dissolve 1 ounce of 
gum camphor in 1 pint of alcohol and 
add 1 pint of turpentine. Pour from 
a can as you would oil. 

Or, if the iron can be heated with- 
out damage, as in sled runners, heat 
it to a cherry red and lay on the spot 
to be drilled a small piece of sulphur, 
and let it stand until cool. This sof- 
tens the iron, which can then be 
drilled without difficulty. 

To Draw the Temper of Iron or 
Steel. — Cover the metal with tallow. 



386 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



heat it slowly in a charcoal fire, and 
let it cool of itself. 

Or use clay instead of tallow. 

Or heat the iron to redness and cov- 
er it with hellebore. 

Or quench it in the water in which 
common beans have been soaked. 

To Temper Cast Iron. — New cast- 
iron stoves, kettles, flatirons, and oth- 
er articles should be gradually tem- 
pered by heating for a number of 
hours on a slow fire. If heated quick- 
ly and violently when new, they may 
crack, and at best they will not after- 
wards retain the heat equally well. 

To Weld Iron. — To unite two pieces 
of welding iron, it is only necessary 
to raise them both to a white heat 
and hammer them together to make 
them one. The softer the iron the 
easier it can be welded. Hence it as- 
sists in welding to draw the temper 
of cast iron or steel before welding. 

Or, to weld cast iron, mix 3 pounds 
of clean white sand, 1 pound of rock 
salt, 1 pound of fosterine, and 1 pound 
of pure solton. Heat the iron slowly 
in a charcoal fire, and while heating 
dip the parts to be welded in this 
mixture from time to time. 

Or melt together 1 pound of borax 
and 2 ounces of red oxide of iron. 
Let the mixture cool, pulverize it, and 
keep it for use in the form of dry 
powder. Sprinkle the parts to be 
welded with this powder. 

To weld a small piece of iron on to 
a large one, raise the larger piece to 
a white heat, heat the smaller piece 
to a proper welding heat, and sprinkle 
the parts with this mixture. The re- 
sult will be a good j oint with less heat 
than would otherwise be required. 

Or mix equal parts of cast-iron fil- 
ings and calcined borax, and melt 
them together in a crucible. Pulver- 
ize the resulting mixture, which will 
form a black powder. Cover the 
parts to be- welded with this sub- 
stance, heat them, and weld them 
with light blows on an anvil. 

To Solder Steel and Iron. — When 
welding is not convenient, steel or iron 
surfaces may be imited by means of 
solder. To solder steel or iron, use 



brass filings, or mix 3 parts of brass 
with 1 part of zinc. 

To make this solder, first melt the 
brass, add the zinc in strips, and cov- 
er tightly until the metals have united. 
Lay twigs across a vessel of water 
and pour the metal over these into the 
water to make it form long strips, or 
pour it into a suitable mold. Dip the 
surfaces to be soldered in alcohol or 
acid, scour and scrape them perfectly 
clean, and, if possible, place them in a 
vise, or otherwise secure them strong- 
ly together. Weight the parts and 
cover with borax. Apply the solder, 
and melt it in the flame of a coke 
fire over a hearth with bellows. 

Or mix equal parts of soft brass 
powder and borax. Apply to the 
parts and melt. 

To Solder Castings. — Clean with al- 
cohol or acid, scrape and scour, and 
apply soldering liquor to the parts. 
Cover with sal ammoniac, and heat 
until the sal ammoniac gives off fumes. 
Then dip the parts into pure tin melt- 
ed. Afterwards apply any ordinary 
hard solder, as brass, 2 parts; zinc, 1 
part; or copper, 2 parts; tin, 1 part, 
and the like. 

To Solder Steel J^olnts. — For fine 
steel work, melt together under a 
layer of powdered charcoal 18 parts 
of silver, 1 part of copper, and 3 parts 
of brass. This melts at a low heat, 
has a whiter • color, and is therefore 
nearer the color of the steel. 

Or cleanse the parts by scrubbing, 
filing, or rubbing with alcohol or 
acid, and tie them together with brass 
wire. Repeat in such a way that when 
melted the brass will run into the 
seam. Apply to the joints and also 
to the wire a paste of borax and 
water, and hold in a bright coke fire 
until the brass melts and runs into 
the joint. This will cause a blue flame 
to rise, which will show that the heat 
is sufficient. 

Or mix 4 parts of dry plaster of 
Paris and 1 part of iron filings with 
water to the consistency of thick 
cream, and apply quickly before it 
sets. 

To Mend Ironware. — ^To mend holes 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



387 



in ironware, melt a little iron or ex- 
pansion metal In a crucible and pour 
it on to a pad of asbestos or thick 
felt protected by ashes, slightly hol- 
lowed in the middle to receive it. 
Press this against the hole so that the 
iron will come through on the other 
side, and meet it with another pad of 
asbestos, holding it thus until it sets. 
The hole will thus be permanently 
plugged. 

Or insert a rivet of copper or Swed- 
ish iron and hammer it gently, with or 
without the addition of suitable sol-" 
der, until it is tight. 

Or use for this purpose one of the 
brass brads sold by stationers. In- 
sert the prongs and open and hammer 
them down tight, adding, if con- 
venient, a little soft solder. 

To Temper Steel. — Heat the steel to 
a cherry red in a, clear smith's fire. 
Cover it with common salt and throw 
salt into the fire to purify it. Work 
the steel in this condition and subject 
it to this treatment until it is wrought 
nearly to its finished form. Then, in- 
stead of salt, mix 1 part each by 
weight of common salt, sulphate of 
copper, sal ammoniac, and sal soda 
with i part of saltpeter. Pulverize 
and mix these ingredients thoroughly. 
Alternately heat the steel and treat 
it with this mixture, and hammer it 
Until it is refined and wrought into 
its finished form. Return it to the 
fire, heat it to a cherry red, and plunge 
it into a bath as follows: 

In 1 gallon of rain water dissolve 
IJ ounces of alum, IJ ounces of sal 
soda, IJ ounces of sulphate of copper, 
1 ounce of saltpeter, and 6 ounces of 
salt. The right to use the above proc- 
ess was purchased by the United 
States Government for $10,000. It is 
the celebrated patent of Garman and 
Siegfried. 

To Temper Steel Springs. — To tem- 
per cast-steel springs for traps and 
similar purposes, heat them in the 
dark until you can j ust see them turn- 
ing red. Then quench them in luke- 
warm water. The object of working 
in the dark is that the redness can be 
seen at a lower degree of heat. Low 



heat and warm water impart the de- 
sired temper. 

To Blue Steel.— Polish the surface 
of the steel and cleanse it thoroughly 
with lime or caustic potash. Place the 
articles in charcoal ashes or wood 
ashes in a suitable receptacle, and heat 
them slowly until the required color 
is produced. 

Or cover the iron plate with slaked 
lime and lay the articles on it. 

Or simply hold the articles in a 
clear flame, as that of burning alco- 
hol, or over a smith's forge, protect- 
ing them from soot by a steel or an 
iron plate, and remove from the heat 
when the required color is secured. 

Or, for a second blue more perma- 
nent than the first, let the steel pass 
from a blue to a white heat, remove 
from the fire, and cool, ' afterwards re- 
heating to blueness. Let the steel cool 
in both cases without quenching. 

To Stain Steel Blue. — Put 1 ounce 
of butter of antimony in a strong 
earthenware or glass vessel, and add 
slowly a mixture of 1 ounce of nitric 
acid with 3 ounces of muriatic acid. 
This process produces vigorous heat. 
Apply this mixture with a piece of 
felt to polished iron or steel, and rub 
with the bark of a green oak tree un- 
til the color is satisfactory. 

To Stain Steel Gray. — Mix 2 ounces 
of butter of antimony with 1 ounce of 
sulphuric acid, and add 5 drops of 
gallic acid. Apply with a piece of 
felt to polished steel. 

To Take Off the Blue. — Mix equal 
parts of muriatic acid and elixir of 
vitriol, immerse the articles in the 
mixture irntU the color changes, rinse, 
and dry. 

To Melt Steel. — To melt iron or 
steel as easily as lead, heat the metal 
to redness and touch it with a cake 
of brimstone. The metal will melt 
and drop like water. Thus holes of 
any desired size can be readily melted 
out of iron or steel by applying sul- 
phur, which softens the metal at the 
point of application. 

To Remove Scale from Steel. — Im- 
merse the metal in water slightly acid- 
ulated with sulphuric acid to loosen 



388 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the scale, then scour with sand soap, 
using a stiff wire or fiber brush. 

To Anneal Steel. — Heat the metal 
in a coke fire on a smith's hearth. 
Cover with sawdust, and then with 
ashes, and let stand until cool. 

Or in any suitable iron receptacle 
pack the articles in chips of cast iron 
from a lathe or planer. The articles 
must be protected by a layer of an 
inch or more of the chips all around 
the sides, top, and bottom, which must 
also be tamped down. Heat the whole, 
and keep at a red heat for two hours 
or more. Remove from the fire 
and let stand until cold. This process 
gives a very soft metal. 

To Toughen Steel. — Melt together 3 
parts of rosin, 2 parts of tar, and 1 
part of black pitch, and plunge the 
articles in this when hot. 

To Restore Burnt Steel. — Mix 4 
ounces of sal ammoniac, IJ ounces of 
borax, IJ ounces of prussiate of pot- 
ash, 1 ounce of blue clay, 13 ounces of 
rosin, 2 ounces of water, and 2 ounces 
of alcohol, and simmer with gentle 
heat until all liquid is evaporated. 
Sprinkle the resulting powder on the 
steel when hot, and work by hammer- 
ing. Repeat as often as necessary. 

To Protect Iron and Steel from 
Rust. — Substances recommended for 
protecting iron and steel from rust 
are various varnishes of wax, rosin, 
India rubber, and asphaltum, and vari- 
ous fixed nondrying oils or animal 
fats, black lead or graphite, and paints 
containing white lead, zinc white, etc. 

Polished Iron or Steel. — To keep 
polished surfaces free from rust, ap- 
ply a mixture of equal parts of copal 
varnish, sweet oil, and turpentine. 

Or coat small articles, as knife 
blades, lancets, and the like, with col- 
lodion dissolved in alcohol. 

Or warm the articles until hot 
enough to scorch, and apply clean 
white wax. Continue the heat until 
the wax soaks into the metal. Let 
cool and polish with felt or velveteen. 

Or melt a little common rosin with 
equal parts of cold linseed oil and 
spirits of turpentine, and apply as a 
varnish. 



Or melt 1 ounce of pure India rub- 
ber in 16 ounces of turpentine; add 8 
ounces of boiled linseed oil. Mix and 
bring to a boil. Apply with a brush. 
Remove, when required, with turpen- 
tine. 

Or apply wax dissolved in benzine. 

Or apply black lead mixed with 
olive oil. 

Rust-proof Paint for Steel and 
Iron. — Mix 20 pounds of white lead, 
7 pounds of crude linseed oil, IJ 
pounds of boiled linseed oil, and 1 
■pound of spirits of turpentine. First 
rub down the work with stiff wire or 
bristle brushes to remove rust, and fill 
all openings, inequalities, etc., with 
red or white lead mixed with cold lin- 
seed oil to the consistency of putty. 
Apply two to four coats. Mix the 
last coat with a little glue size, and be- 
fore it dries, dust with fine dry sand. 

Or mix 4 parts of powdered brick 
dust sifted through cheese cloth with 
1 part of litharge and rub up the 
whole, or grind to a thick paste with 
linseed oil. Dilute, as required, with 
turpentine. Rub the iron free from 
rust with stiff wire or bristle brushes, 
and apply two coats of the above with 
a brush. This wiU resist salt water. 

Or apply two or three thin coats of 
boiled linseed oil with or without col- 
oring matter. Let each coat dry thor- 
oughly before the next one is applied. 

Or mix 8J pounds of sulphur, 2i 
pounds of caustic potash, and 8 oimces 
of copper filings. 

Or melt together with gentle heat 
S pounds of tallow and 1 pound of 
turpentine. Melt separately 18 ounces 
of sulphur, SJ ounces of caustic pot- 
ash, and 1 ounce of copper filings. 
Mix the two while hot and apply as a 
paint to iron or steel. This mixture 
resists salt water and all atmospheric 
conditions. 

Iron and Zinc. — The contact of zinc 
with iron and steel is favorable to 
their preservation, as it causes a gal- 
vanic current to be set up which at- 
tacks the zinc instead of the iron. The 
zinc will be slightly affected, and the 
iron not at all. The contact of lead 
and some other metals, on the con- 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



trary, sets up a galvanic current 
which attacks the iron. This is one 
of the elements of value in galvaniz- 
ing iron by covering it with a coat of 
zinc, and for the same reason zinc 
white should be substituted for white 
lead in the composition of paints for 
ironwork, and zinc or brimstone 
should be used for setting iron posts 
and the like in stone foundations, or 
for solders on ironwork •exposed to 
the weather. 

Iron for Electrotypes.— To coat the 
surface of an electrotype with iron, 
prepare a bath by dissolving 8 ounces 
of sal ammoniac in 2 quarts of rain 
water. Add 1 pound of neutral ace- 
tate of iron, and boil 2 hours in an 
iron kettle, adding water up to 3 
quarts as it evaporates. Cool, filter 
through cheese cloth, put in glass j ars 
or bottles, and cork tightly for use. 

Connect with the positive pole of 
a battery of three or more cells a per- 
fectly clean plate of iron of the same 
size as the electrotype. Connect the 
electrotype with the opposite pole of 
the battery, and fill the tank with the 
above solution, filtering it through 
cheese cloth. When the coating is 
satisfactory, rinse the plate in soft 
water containing a little borax, dry 
thoroughly, and with a brush apply a 
thin coating of boiled linseed oil. 
This process makes a plate almost 
as durable as a steel plate, having a 
coat of pure metallic iron and show- 
ing its characteristic white metallic 
luster. 

To Polish Iron. — To give iron as 
bright a polish as steel, prepare a bath 
by pulverizing and dissolving in 1 
quart of hot water 1 ounce of blue 
vitriol, 1 ounce of borax, 1 ounce of 
prussiate of potash, 1 ounce of char- 
coal, and i pint of salt. Bring to a 
boil, stir in 1 gallon of linseed oil, mix 
thoroughly, and cool for use. 

Heat iron or steel to the proper 
temperature for tempering, and quench 
in this solution. The object is to case- 
harden iron with a bright polish. 

Copper Color for Iron. — ^Dissolve 1 
ounce of copper filings in a mixture 
of 1 ounce of nitric acid and 2 ounces 



of muriatic acid. Apply by means of 
a brush or swab. 

COPPER AND ITS ALLOYS, BRASS, 
BRONZE, ETC. 

Copper.— Copper is a very ductile 
and malleable metal, melting at a 
point somewhat lower than gold, but 
higher than silver. It is the best- 
known conductor of electricity, weighs 
about nine times as much as water, is 
hard, elastic, tough, and of a density 
only less than that of iron. It is 
found nearly pure in various parts of 
the world, also in a number of ores, 
in small quantities in most soils, in 
seaweeds, and in the animal body. A 
compoimd of carbon with copper is 
sold as a pigment under the name of 
blue verditer, and from another com- 
pound of copper Brunswick green is 
obtained. The blue and green verdi- 
gris of commerce is made by the ac- 
tion of acetic acid on oxide of copper. 
The blue vitriol used in dyeing is sul- 
phate of copper. 

Copper is used for ship sheathing 
and bolts, and for a great variety of 
wares. It is also largely used in 
transmitting electricity. It is exten- 
sively used in various alloys, as brass, 
gun metal, bell metal, bronze, alu- 
minum bronze, German silver, and 
others. 

To Improve Copper Castings. — To 
100 pounds of melted copper add 1 
pound of pulverized cryolite, 4f ounces 
rf sugar of lead, and 1 pound of bo- 
rax. Continue the heat 10 minutes be- 
fore pouring the copper into the mold. 

Feather-shot Copper. — To prepare, 
melt the copper and pour it in a thin 
stream in cold water. 

Bean-shot Copper. — To prepare, 
pour melted copper in a thin stream 
in boiling water. 

To Test for Copper. — To detect the 
presence of copper in liquids, put 
some of the liquid in a wineglass and 
add a few drops of aqua ammonia. 
If copper is present, the liquid will 
turn blue. This is a useful test for 
tea, which sometimes is injured by 
being dried on copper. 

It may also be applied to cider, vin- 



390 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



egar, and the like, and likewise to 
pickles to make sure that they were 
not rendered poisonous by having been 
prepared in copper kettles. 

To Whiten Copper. — Melt with 8 
ounces of copper J ounce of neutral 
arsenical salt in the presence of a 
mixture of burnt borax, charcoal dust, 
and prepared glass. 

Or, for 1 pound of copper, mix 4 
ounces of saltpeter and 4 ounces of 
arsenic in powder form, and melt in 
the crucible with gentle heat. Re- 
move, cool, and grind to powder. Add 
IJ ounces of "Venetian borax and IJ 
ounces of white tartar. Melt the mix- 
ture and pour into an iron receiver. 
It will appear as clear crystals. 
Heat the copper in thin sheets six or 
seven times and quench in water. Melt 
the sheets and throw the above crys- 
tals in small pieces into the melted 
copper, at intervals of 5 minutes, un- 
. til all have been thrown in. Continue 
the heat 15 minutes, and pour. 

Brass. — This important alloy of 
copper and zinc is used for many pur- 
poses, because it is easy to work and 
of an acceptable color. It is made 
by melting together copper and zinc 
in a crucible, the zinc being placed 
under the copper to prevent its pass- 
ing off as a gas. 

Or the zinc is first melted, and the 
copper added in strips or sheets. At 
first the copper is taken up rapidly, 
then more slowly. When all the cop- 
per has been added, the alloy is cooled 
and remelted with charcoal, and more 
zinc or copper added to produce the 
desired quality of brass. 

Or heat the copper in small grains 
or sheets with the oxide of zinc and 
charcoal. 

Or heat the copper with calamine, 
a native ore of zinc, and charcoal. 
This was the ancient method. 

There are different kinds of brass 
adapted to special uses according to 
composition. Common brass for cast- 
ings contains about 70 parts of cop- 
per and 30 parts of zinc. The addi- 
tion of lead makes brass less ductile; 
tin makes it harder. Articles of brass 
may be cleaned by dipping them in 



nitric acid, and colored by lacquers 
of shellac and other resins in alcohol. 
Brass is harder than copper, is malle- 
able, ductile, can be readily cast, 
rolled, stamped, and turned in the 
lathe. Next to iron it is the most im- 
portant metal used in the arts. 

Some of the various kinds of brass 
are as follows: 

Metal sheathing for ships (known 
as Muntz or yeUow metal), copper, 50 
to 63 parts; zinc, 38 to 50 parts. This 
is used to prevent decay from sea 
water in the wooden bottoms of ves- 
sels and to keep off barnacles. 

Prince Ruperfs metal, 3 parts of 
copper; 1 part of zinc. 

Red brass, 16 copper; 3 zinc. 

Yellow brass, 60 copper; 40 zinc. 

Sheet brass, 16 copper; 3J zinc. 

Soft brass, 4 copper; 1 zinc. This 
is an easy working metal, can be read- 
ily sawed, and is a very useful brass. 

Dipping metal, 16 copper; 7 zinc. 

Brazing solder, 16 copper; 14 zinc. 

Mosaic gold, 1 copper; 1 zinc. Or 
equal parts by weight. Melt the cop- 
per and keep it at the lowest temper- 
ature at which it vriU stay melted. 
Add the zinc in small pieces, stirring 
constantly until the alloy turns white. 
Then cover with air-slaked lime, heat 
it to the desired temperature, and 
pour. More zinc than copper may be 
required, because some of the zinc 
may pass off as gas. 

Tombac, pinchbeck, Mannheim gold, 
similore, and the like contain 80 parts 
or more of copper and 30 parts or 
less of zinc. 

Sronze. — Bronze is an alloy of cop- 
per with tin, or tin and lead, or tin and 
zinc, or with all three. Sometimes 
other metals are also added in small 
proportions. The hardest and finest 
bronze consists of tin alone with cop- 
per in the proportion of about 9 parts 
of copper to 1 part of tin. Bronze is 
extensively used in the arts for cast- 
ing metals and statues ; also in casting 
bells, cannon, and machinery. Bronze 
was used in the earliest times for 
weapons and utensils before iron was 
discovered. Hence scholars tell of an 
" age of bronze " which came after the 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



391 



" age of stone " and before the " age 
of iron." 

Tempering has exactly the opposite 
effect on bronze to what it has on 
steel. Hence, to draw the temper of 
bronze and make it soft and malle- 
able, it must be heated to a cherry red 
and quenched in water. 

The following are various kinds of 
bronze, adapted to different purposes: 
Bronze cannon, 9 copper, 1 tin; 
Chinese gongs, 5 copper, 1 tin; musi- 
cal bells, 6 copper, 1 tin; house bells, 
4 copper, 1 tin; large bells, 3 copper, 

1 tin; bronze for wheels, 10 copper, 1 
tin; speculirai or telescope metal, 2 
copper, 1 tin; mechanical instru- 
ments, 13 copper, 1 tin; soft bronze, 
16 copper, 1 tin; bronze for gears, 16 
copper, IJ tin; gun metal, 16 copper, 

2 tin; bronze bearings, 16 copper, 2 J 
tin; cutting tools, 100 copper, 14 tin. 

The ancient cutting instruments of 
bronze are superior to any of modern 
make, but this is supposed to be due 
to an art of tempering, which has 
been lost, as their composition varies 
from 4 to 14 per cent of tin. The 
addition of zinc, lead, and other ma- 
terials produces another class of al- 
loys, including the following: 

Standard bronze, 12 copper; 1 tin; 
J lead. 

Bronze for journal boxes, 24 cop- 
per; 24 tin; 8 antimony. First melt 
the copper, then add the tin, and final- 
ly the antimony. Run into ingots and 
melt down before casting. 

Bronze for ornaments, 83 copper; 
18 zinc; 3 tin; 3 lead. 

Bronze for general work, 16 cop- 
per; 1 tin; 1 zinc; i lead. 

Strong bronze, 10 copper; 1 tin; | 
brass; J lead. 

Bronze for gun metal, 8 copper; 1 
tin; J zinc; J lead. 

Cheap bronze, 30 copper; 15 old 
brass; IJ tin; 2 lead. 

Bronze solder, 39 J copper; 7i zinc; 

3 tin. Use to unite iron to brass. 
Artificial gold, 100 copper; 17 tin; 

6 magnesia; 9 commercial tartar; i 
sal ammoniac, J quicklime. First melt 
the copper, to which add the mag- 
nesia, sal ammoniac, lime, and tartar 



in the order named. Stir these in 
slowly in powdered form; then stir 
vigorously for 20 to 30 minutes un- 
til all are incorporated. Throw the 
tin on the surface in small grains, 
and stir until entirely melted. Cover 
the crucible and let stand for half an 
hour. Skim off the dross and pour. 
This is a beautiful alloy, of a color 
similar to gold, is malleable and duc- 
tile, and may be worked like gold. It 
requires a good judge to tell the dif- 
ference. Or 94 copper and 6 anti- 
mony, said by French experts to be 
a wonderful substitute for gold. It 
can be polished to almost exactly the 
same color as gold, and can be worked 
in the same manner. 

Bronze jewelry, 3 copper; 1 brass; 
i tin. 

White metal, 8 brass; 10 tin; 10 
lead; 6 bismuth; J antimony. Melt 
together and run into molds. This 
alloy is malleable, closely resembles 
silver, and is used for the manufac- 
ture of cheap tableware and various 
ornaments. Or, for hard white metal, 
20 brass; 3 zinc; 1 tin. 

Aluminum bronze, 90 copper; 10 
alimiinum. 

Manganese bronze, 80 to 90 copper; 
20 to 10 manganese. 

Phosphor bronze, any standard 
bronze melted in the presence of phos- 
phorus, and usually retaining a small 
amount of that substance. 

The last three are all valuable al- 
loys, stronger and better than pure 
bronze. 

LEAS AKO ITS ALLOYS 

Lead. — Next to iron, lead is the 
most common of metals. Its color is 
bluish gray, it is soft and ductile, it 
burns at a white heat in the open air, 
producing an oxide known as litharge, 
which is much used as a dryer in mix- 
ing paints. Lead is used for roofing, 
lining sinks, cisterns, etc., for shot 
and balls, and for the manufacture 
of pipes. Lead is so soft that it can 
be drawn out in pipe form without 
welding. It is so cheap and handy 
to work that it is almost universally 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



employed for water pipes and has 
given its name to the plumber's trade, 
the Latin name for lead being plum- 
bum. The principal alloys of lead 
are type metal which is lead and an- 
timony, and pewter or solder which is 
lead and tin. 

Various compounds of lead are in 
common use. 

Litharge is used as a dryer with oils 
and varnishes, and in the manufacture 
of glass. 

Red lead or minmm is used as a 
pigment of oil paints and in coloring 
wall paper, sealing wax, etc. It is 
also used in the manufacture of glass. 

White lead is a mixture of litharge 
and carbon. It forms the basis of 
most lead paints. An objection to 
white-lead paint is that it turns dark 
under the influence of gases or other 
compounds containing sulphur. Lead 
is a cumulative poison, and those who 
work in it, as painters, plumbers, and 
others, are liable to a complaint known 
as " painter's colic." The use of lead 
pipe has been the source of many 
cases of lead poisoning; hence lead 
pipe should always be lined with tin. 
This is but little more expensive than 
pure lead pipe and is much safer. 

Sugar of lead, or acetate of lead, 
an active poison, is made by dissolv- 
ing litharge in wood vinegar or other 
cheap acetic acid. It forms beautiful 
crystals which gradually crumble to 
a white powder. These may be dis- 
solved in water by the addition of 
acetic acid. 

Chromates of lead are known as 
chrome yellow and chrome red. They 
are two brilliant and valuable pig- 
ments, chrome yellow being especially 
important. These are used as pig- 
ments in mixing paints, as dyes, and 
the like. 

lead Tree. — This interesting ex- 
periment is perfomed by dissolving in 
a large glass vessel 1 ounce of sugar 
of lead in 1 quart of water, and by 
placing near the top a small piece of 
zinc of irregular shape. Within 2 
or 3 days the zinc will shoot out 
leaves similar to vegetation, and will 
become extremely beautiful. It must, 



however, be moved with great care, 
as the slightest jar wOl cause it to 
fall apart. The zinc decomposes the 
acetate of lead and causes the metal 
to be precipitated on its surface in a 
metallic state. 

Lead in Grains. — To obtain lead in 
this form, melt it and pour from a 
height in a thin stream into cold 
water. 

Sheet Xead. — To prepare lead in 
sheet form, pour the melted lead on 
a large flat stone having a rim to pre- 
vent the lead from running off. Lay 
off a square equal in size to the de- 
sired sheet, placing at the corners up- 
right pegs of the desired thickness. 
After pouring on the melted lead, 
press down upon the pegs a thin piece 
of flat stone fitted with a suitable 
wooden back and handle to smooth 
the lead surface. Remove the sheet 
of lead and repeat the process. The 
sheets may afterwards be trimmed as 
desired. 

To Test White Xead. — To test white 
lead, which is often adulterated, put 
a little of it on the end of a stick and 
set the stick on fire. If the lead is 
pure it will appear in small globules 
like shot. If it forms a white crust 
on the stick it is not pure. Crush 
this white crust on paper. If it con- 
tains lead the paper will be black, 
otherwise it will be of a pale-yellow 
color. 

Or place a small quantity of the 
white lead on an earthenware surface 
and direct against it by means of a 
blowpipe the flame of a candle or of 
an alcohol lamp. The metallic lead 
will appear in the form of a melted 
globule, and any impurities will be 
apparent. 

Type Metal. — Lead, 83; antimony, 
17. This mixture is harder and may 
be melted more easily than either of 
its components, and it has qualities 
which adapt it for fine and sharp 
castings. A little zinc is sometimes 
added. 

Expansion Metal. — Seventy -five 
lead; 16 J antimony; 8i bismuth. This, 
mixture expands on cooling. 

Or 7 lead; 1 antimony; J tin. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



393 



TIN AND ITS ALIOYS, SOLDER, ETC. 

Tin. — Tin is a lustrous white metal, 
soft, malleable, and quite ductile at 
the temperature of boiling water. It 
is very little affected even by moist 
air at low temperatures. It was 
known in very ancient times (being 
mentioned in the Pentateuch), and was 
an important article of trade with the 
British Islands before the Christian 
era. Tin is largely used in various 
alloys with other metals, and in melted 
form to coat sheet iron, tin plate, and 
copper. 

Various compounds of tin are used 
in the arts. Tin dissolved in hydro- 
chloric acid is used as a mordant in 
dyeing under the name of salt of tin. 
Another compound, called pink salt, 
is used as a red dye. Another, known 
as tin solution, brightens and fixes red 
colors. 

Tin Plate. — This is sheet iron or 
sheet steel coated with tin. To coat 
iron or copper with tin, melt to a 
white heat 1 pound of malleable iron; 
add 5 ounces of regulus of antimony 
and 34 pounds of Molucca tin. Cover 
the melted tin with palm oil to keep 
out the air. Dip articles to be tinned 
into dilute sulphuric acid. When 
clean, dip in warm water to rinse, 
then in hot palm oil to remove the 
water; next in a solution of muriatic 
acid, copper, and zinc; finally in a 
tin bath, to which a small quantity of 
zinc has been added. When the tin- 
ning is finished, plunge the articles 
into boiling water. Finally cover 
them with very warm sand, which sof- 
tens the iron. 

Tin plate is prepared commercially 
by passing through a patent pot hav- 
ing rollers, which by their tension de- 
termine the thickness of the coating 
of tin. 

To Ornament Tin Plate ty Moire 
Metallique. — Dip the plates in u 
strong solution of sal soda, then in 
water. Heat them, and sponge or 
sprinkle them with an acid solution, 
as nitric and muriatic acids, in vari- 
ous proportions, as 1 part of sul- 
phuric acid and 6 parts of water; 1 



part of sulphuric acid, 2 parts of mu- 
riatic acid, and 10 parts of water; 1 
part of nitric acid, 3 parts of sul- 
phuric acid, and 16 parts of water; 
rinse in water slightly acidulated 
with the same acids, dry, and lacquer. 

To Hand Tinware. — Tin plate may 
be mended by covering small open- 
ings with melted solder (an alloy of 
tin with lead), or by soldering a suit- 
able patch of sheet tin, tin plate, or 
zinc over larger openings. Before sol- 
dering, it is necessary to apply a solu- 
tion of zinc in acid to the adjacent 
parts. This is known as soldering 
liquid. 

To Make Soldering Lictuid. — Put in 
a strong glass bottle or other vessel 
2 ounces of muriatic acid. Cut scraps 
of sheet zinc into narrow strips and 
feed them into the liquor as fast as 
they will dissolve. The acid at first 
will unite with the zinc and generate 
considerable heat, which may burst 
the bottle. Hence do this preferably 
out of doors, and take care that the 
acid does not get on anything of 
value. 

Or dissolve the zinc in an open ves- 
sel, and afterwards bottle for use. 

When the acid ceases to dissolve the 
zinc, add 1 ounce of sal ammoniac and 
boil 10 minutes in an earthenware or 
copper vessel, but do not use any 
other metal for this purpose. Cork 
tightly. Apply this liquid with a 
feather to the parts to be soldered, 
or by wetting the cork of the bottle. 
A few drops are sufficient. Do not 
let it fall on the hands or clothing. 
This liquid causes the solder to flow 
freely and makes it adhere. 

Soft Solder. — A solder suitable for 
the more fusible metals, as tin, pew- 
ter, Britannia ware, and zinc, is known 
generally as soft solder because it has 
the property of melting at very low 
temperature. The following propor- 
tions are recommended: 

For tin — common solder, 1 lead; 1 
tin. Or 1 lead; 1 tin; 2 bismuth. 
This solder is soft enough to melt in 
boiling water. 

Coarse solder, 2 lead; 1 tin. 

Fine solder, 1 lead; 2 tin. 



394 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



For Britannia ware, 1 lead; 1 tin; 
\ bismuth. 

For zinc or lead, 1 or 3 lead; 1 tin. 

For pewter, 1 tin; 1 lead; 1 or 3 
bJsmutli. 

To Hake and Use Solder. — Melt the 
metals together in any of the above 
proportions with gentle heat. Apply 
, soldering liquid to the parts with a 
pencil or with a feather; sprinkle the 
parts with powdered rosin. Apply 
the solder and smooth with a solder- 
ing iron. This is the usual method, 
but in the absence of a soldering iron 
a suitable solder may be made of 
shavings of solder melted in a large 
iron spoon, poured on the parts, and 
rubbed smooth before cooling with 
the bowl of the spoon. 

Or, if necessary, a patch of zinc or 
sheet tin may be applied by covering 
the patch and the surface of the tin 
with soldering liquid and solder, and 
laying on the patch before the solder 
cools. 

Or, in place of solder, tin foil may 
be used to apply patches or to solder 
two pieces of soft metal together. Cut 
a piece of tin foil the size of the sur- 
face to be soldered. Apply soldering 
liquid with a feather to both metal 
surfaces and place them in position 
with the tin foil between. Apply to 
the outer surface an iron hot enough 
to strike through and melt the foil. 
When cold, the two surfaces will be 
found to be soldered together. 

Or, to apply a zinc or lead patch 
to soft metals, simply moisten both 
■" surfaces with soldering liquid, put the 
patch in place, and hold a kerosene 
or an alcohol lamp flame beneath it. 
This will cause the surfaces of the 
zinc or lead to rim and fuse to- 
gether. 

To Mend Tin Pans without Solder. 
— Use soft putty. Push it through 
the hole from the outside. Smooth 
on both sides with a knife after the 
manner of a rivet, and let stand until 
hard. This is not only a quick and 
easy way to make temporary repairs, 
but one that wiU withstand all ordi- 
nary treatment and may never need 
to be repeated. 



Hard Solder. — Metals which fuse 
only at high temperatures, as iron, 
gold, copper, and silver, and their al- 
loys, brass, bronze, and others, require 
a hard solder. The proportions rec- 
ommended for different metals are as 
follows: 

Steel solder, 19 silver; 1 copper; 2 
brass. Or 2 copper; 1 zinc. 

Gold solder, 7 silver; 1 copper. 
Fuse with borax. Or 2 gold; 1 sil- 
ver; 1 copper. Or 3 gold; 3 silver; 
1 copper; J zinc. 

Silver solder, 3 silver; 1 brass with 
borax. Or 4 sUver; 3 brass; tV ^i°c 
with borax. 

Brass solder, 3 copper; 1 zinc with 
borax. 

Platinum solder, gold with borax. 

Iron solder, tough brass with borax. 

Copper solder, 6 brass; 1 zinc; 1 
tin. 

To prepare the above, melt the met- 
als together, mix thoroughly, and pour 
in molds to cool. To apply, make the 
surfaces perfectly clean and smooth. 
Cover with Soldering liquid and sprin- 
kle with powdered rosin or borax. Ap- 
ply the solder in melted form and 
smooth with a soldering iron. 

Tin in Grains. — Melt grain tin and 
pour it into a wooden box, the inside 
of which has been rubbed with chalk 
or whiting. Close the cover and shake 
violently until the tin is reduced to 
powder. Wash in clean water and 
dry. 

Tin Pilings. — Melt grain tin in an 
iron vessel and stir briskly while cool- 
ing until it becomes a powder. Af- 
terwards sift to the required size. 

Oxide of Tin. — Dissolve tin in a 
mixture of nitric and muriatic acids 
in a closed vessel. Precipitate the 
oxide with an alkaline solution, as 
caustic potash or soda. Pour off the 
liquid, rinse in clean water, and dry. 

Muriate of Tin. — Melt tin and pour 
from a height of S or 6 feet into 
clean water. This reduces the tin to 
small particles. Or take filings of 
grain tin. Add to each J ounce of tin 
8 ounces of muriatic acid. Bottle and 
cork tightly for use. This is used in 
dyeing scarlet colors. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



395 



Nitrate of Tin.— Mix 8 ounces of 
aquafortis with 8 ounces of soft water, 
and add slowly J ounce of sal am- 
moniac and 2 drams of saltpeter. To 
this add gradually 1 ounce of melted 
tin poured into cold water from a 
height, or tin filings or tin in grains, 
letting each piece dissolve before add- 
ing another. When dissolved, bottle 
and cork tightly. Used in dyeing 
yellow. 

To Crystallize Tin. — Warm any 
block-tin article over the fire and rub 
it with a cloth dipped in a solution 
of 1 spoonful of muriatic acid, 1 
spoonful of nitric acid, and 8 spoon- 
fuls of water. Measure with an old 
spoon that will not be harmed. After- 
wards lacquer with a colored varnish. 
To Make a Tin Tree. — Fill a clear 
glass vessel with water, to which add 
3 drams of muriate of tin and 10 
drops of nitric acid. Suspend near 
the top from a thread a strip of zinc 
of irregular shape, and let stand 
where it will not be shaken. The tin 
will be deposited on the zinc in vege- 
table-like forms. 

Pewter. — Pewter is a name some- 
what loosely applied to various alloys 
of tin with lead and other metals. 
Hard pewter may consist of 12 tin, 
1 antimony, J copper. A better grade 
consists of 100 tin, 17 antimony. A 
common pewter consists of 7 tin, 1 
lead, i copper, J zinc. 

Or 100 tin, 8 antimony, 4 copper, 1 
bismuth. 

Other important alloys of tin are: 
Babbitt metal, 8 tin; 4 lead; 1 anti- 
mony. The composition of this was 
formerly closely guarded as a trade 
secret. 

To prepare this alloy, melt 4 pounds 
of copper; add gradually 12 pounds 
of best banca tin, then 8 pounds of 
antimony; finally, 12 pounds addition- 
al tin. This is a soft alloy invented 
by Mr. Isaac Babbitt of Boston. It 
is used to line boxes for axles and 
gudgeons to diminish friction and 
abrasion, especially in steamboats and 
locomotives. Mr. Babbitt, the in- 
ventor, was a goldsmith who made at 
his native town the first Britannia 



ware produced in the United States. 
He received a gold medal for the in- 
vention of Babbitt metal, and Con- 
gress presented him with $20,000. 

Britannior^are metal, 75 to 94 tin; 
5 to 10 antimony; 2 to 8 bismuth. 

Pewter, 4 tin; 1 lead. 

Queen's metal, 9 tin; 1 lead; 1 bis- 
muth; 1 antimony. Or 9 tin; 1 bis- 
muth; 2 lead; 1 antimony. Or 10 tin; 
8 antimony; 1 bismuth; 4 copper. 

Speculum metal, 1 tin; 2 copper. 

Bell metal, 22 tin; 78 copper, with 
sometimes a little zinc and lead. 

Gun metal, 1 tin; 9 copper. 

Sheathing for ships, 1 tin; 33 cop- 
per. 

Fusible metal, 1 tin; 1 lead; 2 bis- 
muth. This melts at 200.7° F. 

An amalgam of tin and mercury is 
used for coating mirrors, and type 
metal for fine work contains a small 
amount of tin. 

In addition to the above, 29 pounds 
of tin and 19 pounds of lead make a 
very fusible and brilliant alloy. 

Equal parts of tin and zinc make 
an alloy almost as strong as zinc or 
brass. 

ZINC AND ITS ALLOYS 

Zinc. — Zinc, sometimes called spel- 
ter, is almost as common as lead. It 
has the peculiarity of evaporating, 
like water, at a comparatively low 
temperature. Hence it is produced 
by a process of distillation. The ores 
are heated in retorts, and the zinc 
vapor is carried off condensed and 
purified through suitable pipes. Zinc 
is very hard, of a bluish color, and 
when fresh of a brilliant luster. It 
tarnishes by contact with the air, 
forming a thin, hard film which pro- 
tects it from further oxidation. Hence 
zinc is very durable and resists both 
air and water. Iron and other metals 
are often protected by a coating or 
an impervious varnish of zinc, form- 
ing galvanized iron, which does not 
rust until the zinc has worn away. 

Zinc is crystalline and brittle at 
ordinary temperatures, but at a tem- 
perature of 300° F. it may be rolled 



396 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



into thin plates, and is quite malleable. 
At 400° it may be crushed to powder, 
at 780° it melts, and boils at 1900°, 
giving off a vapor which takes fire 
if exposed to the air, and burns with 
a bright light to zinc oxide. This is 
a pigment used as a commercial 
product instead of white lead for 
painting woodwork. Pure zinc dis- 
solves in nitric acid, but not in dilute 
sulphuric acid or hydrochloric acid. 

Contact with other metals and sub- 
stances capable of conducting electric- 
ity sets up a voltaic circuit of elec- 
tricity which dissolves the zinc. This 
is seen in voltaic batteries; hence 
commercial zinc, containing more or 
less lead, iron, etc., may be dissolved 
readily in acids, alkalies, and even in 
neutral solutions on account of the 
electric circuits set up between the 
zinc and the other metals with which 
it is alloyed. 

Alloys of Zinc. — The principal al- 
loys of zinc are given under copper, 
brass, and bronze. Zinc alloys readily 
with all the common metals, except 
lead and bismuth. These alloys par- 
take of the hardness of zinc, and also, 
when used in excess, of its brittleness. 
The most important use of zinc as an 
alloy is in the manufacture of brass. 
Zinc will not unite with lead except 
in the presence of tin or other metal. 
With lead and bismuth it forms a 
fusible alloy which melts in boiling 
water. Zinc is sometimes used to al- 
loy bronze, which should properly 
consist only of tin and copper. The 
triple alloy of these three metals is 
used for journal boxes and other pur- 
poses where great hardness is desired. 
An amalgam of zinc with mercury is 
used for coating voltaic batteries 

Other alloys of zinc are: 

White metal, 1 zinc; 1 tin, and a 
little antimony. 

Antifriction alloy, 17 zinc; 2 tin; 
1 antimony. This can be used for 
linings or for castings instead of 
brass. 

Imitation of German silver, 85 zinc; 
15 copper. 

Substitute bronze, copper, and brass, 
90 zinc; 8 copper; 1 cast iron; 1 lead. 



Or 91 zinc; 8 copper; 1 lead. These 
alloys may be colored to represent 
any alloy. 

Equal parts of zinc and tin make 
an alloy almost as strong as brass. 

Zinc ^ Solder. — Common solder, 1 tin 
and 1 lead. Or coarse solder, 2 lead 
and 1 tin, will solder zinc. Wet the 
parts with the liquid and sprinkle 
with powdered borax. 

KICKEL Ain> ITS ALLOYS 

Nickel. — Pure nickel is a metal of 
a silvery-white polish and strong lus- 
ter. When highly polished it is dif- 
ficult to tell nickel from polished sil- 
ver. It has the valuable property of 
not tarnishing on exposure to the air. 
To break a nickel wire requires IJ 
times the pull that an iron wire of the 
same thickness does. Nickel is hard 
and melts with grexit difficulty. It 
may be dissolved slowly in dilute sul- 
phuric or hydrochloric acid, and rap- 
idly in nitric acid and aqua regia. 

The principal uses of nickel are for 
nickel plating, for coinage, and for 
alloys. 

German silver, or nickel silver, is 
brass with the addition of J to J of 
nickel. It is intended as an imitation 
of silver. This alloy has been in use 
in China from a remote antiquity. 
The white copper or pakfong of China 
contains 40.4 copper, 31.6 nickel, 25.4 
zinc, 2.6 iron. 

For German sUver, use about 1 
nickel, 1 zinc, 2 copper. A little lead 
may be added for casts. 

Or, for a cheaper quality, 8 cop- 
per, 2 nickel, 3.5 zinc. But if less 
than J nickel is used the result will 
be little better than brass. 

Imitation silver consists of 8 cop- 
per, 3 nickel, 3.5 zinc. This is a beau- 
tiful alloy which takes a high polish 
much like silver. 

Or 8 copper, 4 nickel, 3.6 zinc is an 
Imitation of silver having a faint 
shade of blue. The addition of 2 or 
3 per cent of iron renders it white, 
but less malleable. 

A very malleable German silver is 
10 copper, 6 zinc, 4 silver. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



397 



Chinese tutenag is 8 copper, 3 nick- 
el, 6.5 zinc. This is fusible, hard, and 
not easily rolled. Good German sil- 
ver is of a silver-white color, ductile 
as brass, hard, and takes a high pol- 
ish. On account of the cost of nickel, 
various cheaper white metals have 
taken the place of German silver, but 
the latter is stiU extensively used in 
the arts. 

To make German silver, granulate 
the metals, mix them thoroughly, cov- 
er with charcoal, and stir while melt- 
ing. 

Nickel steel contains 3^ per cent 
nickel, as made at the Bethlehem 
works. It is used for armor plate, 
but is still too costly for other pur- 
poses. Probably nickel will be cheap- 
er in future, as it has steadily de- 
clined in price with improved methods 
of manufacture. 

ALTJMIinJM AND ITS ALLOYS 

Aluminum. — A large part of the 
crust of the earth consists of this met- 
al. It is most abundant in different 
varieties of clay, but occurs in the 
rock known as feldspar, and also in 
corundum, emery, and in the precious 
stones sapphire and ruby. 

Improved methods of manufacture 
have in recent years greatly reduced 
the cost of aluminum, which should 
be one of the cheapest of metals, and 
it is likely to be further reduced in 
time to come. 

Aluminum nearly chemically pure 
is now made commercially at a price 
which admits of its use for various 
wares and utensils. The leading qual- 
ity of aluminum is its lightness, it be- 
ing hardly more than 2.5 times as 
heavy as water. Steel is nearly 3 times 
as heavy as aluminum, copper 3.6 
times, lead 4.8 times, gold 7.7 times. 

Aluminum is not, however, a very 
strong metal, being under tensile strain 
about equal to cast iron, and less than 
half as strong as wrought iron. Pure 
aluminum is white with a bluish tint. 
Upon exposure to the air it acquires 
a thin film of white oxide like zinc, 
which prevents further tarnishing but 



increases the bluish tint. It conducts 
heat about one half as well as silver. 
It can be dissolved in hydrochloric 
acid, and is corroded rapidly by caus- 
tic alkalies, as potash and soda, chlo- 
rine, iodine, and similar substances. 

To Solder Aluminum. — Moisten the 
surface with Venetian turpentine, and 
solder with pure zinc, using a solder- 
ing iron. 

Aluminum Alloys. — Aluminum 95 
and silver 5 gives a beautiful alloy 
susceptible of a high polish, which is 
likely to have many important uses in 
the arts. 

Aluminum bronze, an alloy of cop- 
per with 2 to 13 per cent of aluminum, 
has great strength and ductility and 
resists corrosion. More than 10 per 
cent of aluminum is usually not ad- 
visable, and down to 5 per cent is 
usually preferred. Additional alu- 
minum increases the hardness and 
lightens the color, 10 per cent alloy 
having a yellowish-gold and the 2i 
per cent alloy having a deep red-gold 
shade. These bronzes can be forged, 
rolled, hammered, or cast in almost 
every way that steel can, and with 
greater strength, ductility, and power 
to withstand corrosion. 

Silver bronze, a substitute for Ger- 
man silver,' contains 67.5 copper, 18 
manganese, 13 zinc, 5 silicon, 1.3 
aluminum. It is used in electrical 
engineering for resistance coils. 

Aluminum is added to cast iron at 
the rate of 2 to 5 pounds a ton to re- 
duce the range of temperature be- 
tween which the iron first softens and 
that at which it becomes fluid. Five 
to 10 ounces of aluminum added to 
each ton of steel or open-hearth met- 
al, or 7 to 16 ounces for Bessemer 
metal, helps to quiet the steel in pour- 
ing. Four ounces of aluminum added 
to 10 tons of smelter in galvanizing 
improves the finish of galvanized iron 
or steel sheets. 

ANTIMONY AND ITS ALLOYS 

Antimony. — A brittle silver-white 
metal, having a peculiar taste. It oc- 
curs in nature combined with nickel, 



398 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



sUver, oxygen, and sulphur. The com- 
mercial metal is known as " regulus 
of antimony." The principal source 
of supply is Borneo and Singapore, 
whence the ore is shipped to Great 
Britain, commonly as ballast. Anti- 
mony is extremely brittle, may be eas- 
ily pulverized in a mortar, and when 
heated in the open air burns with a 
bluish-white flame, giving off the 
fumes of an oxide known as flowers 
of antimony. Among the compounds 
of antimony the trichloride or butter 
of antimony, mixed with olive oU, is 
used for bronzing gun barrels. 

The following are among the alloys 
of antimony: 

Type metal contains 1 antimony, 4 
lead. When used for stereotype plates 
it contains also -^ to -^ ot tin. This 
aUoy is hard and also expands at the 
moment it solidifies, thus taking a 
very sharp impression of the mold. 

Britannia ware contains 1 antimony, 
9 tin. 

Pewter is an alloy of antimony and 
tin. 

Antimony enters into the composi- 
tion of many of the antifriction al- 
loys. Tartar emetic is a preparation 
of antimony, commonly used in medi- 
cine. The old-fashioned " family piU " 
was a small bullet of metallic anti- 
mony, which was swallowed for cer- 
tain difficulties, and carefully pre- 
served for future occasions. 

Bismuth. — A brittle metal of a crys- 
talline texture and white color having 
a red tinge. This metal is not often 
used in a pure state. Among its al- 
loys are: 

Fusible metal, 8 bismuth, 6 lead, 3 
tin, which melts in boiling water. 
Bismuth is also added to some kinds 
of stereotype metal. 

The subnitrate of bismuth, a pure- 
white, tasteless, heavy powder, called 
pearl white, pearl powder, etc., is used 
as a cosmetic. 

UEBCTTBY AIO) ITS AUALGAUS 

Mercury. — Mercury is the only pure 
metal which is liquid at ordinary tem- 
peratures. It has been known from 



remote antiqviity together with its 
chlorides, corrosive sublimate and red 
oxide, which were known to the Ara- 
bians, and calomel, known to the al- 
chemists. Its sulphide cinnabar has 
been used as a pigment from ancient 
times. Pure mercury has a pure sil- 
ver-white luster. Like sUver, it is 
tarnished by the fumes of sulphur or 
dust which adheres to and adulter- 
ates it. 

Mercury mixes freely with most of 
the common metals, especially lead, 
tin, zinc, and copper. Contact with 
other metals often ruins mercury or 
greatly lessens its value. No metal 
should be allowed to touch it except 
iron or platinum. 

Pure mercury forms in globules, 
which run freely over glass or other 
smooth surface. The presence of other 
liquids causes it to be somewhat sticky 
and to " drag a tail " behind when 
flovring over smooth surfaces. Hence 
this is a test of its purity. 

Mercury freezes at a temperature 
of 39° F. Hence, while used for ther- 
mometers at ordinary temperatures, it 
is not smtable for those used in arctic 
regions, where it is replaced by alco- 
hol or some other spirit 

Mercury is also used in amalgama- 
tion with zinc for voltaic batteries, 
for mirrors, barometers, thermometers, 
steam and other pressure gauges, and 
with copper in dental amalgams. 

Amalgams. — Alloys of mercury with 
other metals are called amalgams; 
among these are the dental amalgam 
with copper, an amalgam with tin for 
coating mirrors, and amalgams of the 
precious metals used in mining. 

Calomel, a chloride of mercury. Is 
used in medicine, and corrosive sub- 
limate is used as a preservative and 
insecticide. The mineral cinnabar, a 
sulphide of mercury, forms the beau- 
tiful pigment known as vermilion. 

To Coat Mirrors with. Mercury. — 
Spread on a solid level table a sheet 
of tin foil the size of the mirror, hav- 
ing a ledge about its edge to prevent 
the mercury from flowing over at the 
sides. Pour on a little mercury, and 
rub it over the surface with a piece 



THE FAMILY WORKEOOM 



399 



of felt, taking care not to wrinkle the 
foil. Now pour on mercury deep 
enough so that its upper surface will 
be liquid. Then push the glass along 
the layer of mercury with its lower 
edge below the surface, so as to keep 
out the air and push along any im- 
purities, and let it rest on the mer- 
cury. Tilt the table to let the excess 
of mercury run off into a trough pro- 
vided for it. Lay on a weight of the 
same size and shape as the glass so as 
to exert a tmiform pressure, and let 
stand until hard and dry. The time 
required varies from a few days or 
weeks to a number of months, depend- 
ing upon conditions that are not fully 
understood. During this process mer- 
cury must be kept from the fumes of 
sulphur, sewer gas, burning matches, 
or anything containing sulphur, as rub- 
ber and the like. After the amalgam 
dries, the mirror may be lifted care- 
fully and ba'cked with thin boards or 
otherwise to exclude the air. 

Or lay a sheet of tin foil on a mar- 
ble slab, a table, or other smooth sur- 
face, and rub it with mercury, using 
a hare's foot or a piece of soft cham- 
ois. Use about 3 drams of mercury 
to 1 square foot of foil. Continue 
the rubbing until the two metals in- 
corporate and the foil becomes bril- 
liant. Lay the plate of glass upon it 
and load it with weights in such a 
way that the pressure will be exactly 
equal over all parts of the glass. Any 
excess of mercury will be squeezed out 
and the tin foil will adhere to the 



To Repair Mirrors. — ^To renew the 
silvering from the back of a mirror, 
lay it face downward on a smooth 
surface and prepare a piece of tin foU 
large enough to patch the damaged 
part by rubbing it with mercury. 
Place the patch in position, lay a 
sheet of paper over it, and put on it 
a weight having a perfectly flat sur- 
face and heavy enough to press it 
down tightly. Let the mirror lie in 
this position for a day or two and 
the foil will adhere to the glass. 

Or the silvering may be removed 
from a broken mirror and used to 



patch a mirror which is scratched or 
damaged. 

Platinum. — A whitish steel-gray 
metal, very ductile and malleable, and, 
like gold, not liable to tarnish or cor- 
rode. It is one of the heaviest of 
the metals, being about 21J times as 
heavy as water. 

Platinum cannot be melted with or- 
dinary heat, hence it is commonly used 
as a material for crucibles in which 
other metals are to be melted. It may 
be dissolved, like gold, in aqua regia, 
and forms alloys with gold and silver 
and many other metals which are 
more fusible than pure platinum. 
Combined with the rare metal iridium 
it forms an extremely hard aUoy, 
which is used for gun vents and 
standard weights and measures. 

Platinum wire is used in incandes- 
cent electrical lamps. Its price varies 
from $9 to $13 an ounce. 

To Solder Platinum. — To solder 
platinum, use pure gold with borax. 

COATIITG METAIS WITH OTHER MET- 
ALS BT ELECTRICITY AND OTHER- 
WISE 

To Tin Copper. — To tin copper, 
brass, or lead, dissolve J pint of table 
salt and 4 ounces of cream of tartar 
in S gallons of water. Add 1 pound 
of tin filings. BoU the articles in 
this solution, stirring briskly, until 
the coating is satisfactory. 

Tinning Copper and Brass. — Boil 
3 pounds of cream of tartar in 3 
gallons of water. Add 4 pounds of 
grain tin or tin filings. BoU vigorous- 
ly. Put in the articles to be tinned, 
and continue the boiling until a suf- 
ficient coating is deposited. 

Tinning Copper. — Apply sulphuric 
acid with a swab to the copper arti- 
cle, and scour with a moistened cloth 
dipped in dry pumice to get a per- 
fectly smooth surface. Apply solder- 
ing liquid over the surface and sprin- 
kle it with powdered sal ammoniac. 
Heat the article until it is,hot enough 
to melt the solder. Then take a bar 
of solder and rub it over the surface. 

Or melt solder inside of the dish 



400 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



or pan, and rub it with a swab over 
the inside surface. Smooth over the 
surface while the dish is still hot 
enough to keep the solder in a partly 
liquid condition. 

Electroplating -with Copper. — 
Clean and scour the articles to free 
them from rust or oxide and all other 
impurities. Dip them in a solution of 
nitrate of mercury. This covers them 
with a thin amalgam that causes the 
plate to adhere firmly. 

Prepare in a suitable tank a strong 
solution of sulphate of copper in boil- 
ing water. When the water has dis- 
solved all it can, strain the solution 
through cheese cloth. To each gallon 
of this solution add 3J ounces of 
strong sulphuric acid and i dram of 
white arsenic. Suspend in one end 
of the tank a clean plate of copper 
connected by wire to the zinc pole of 
a battery. Suspend the articles to be 
coppered by means of a copper wire 
or an iron rod across the top of the 
tank, taking care that they do not 
touch each other or the plate of clean 
copper. Connect the rod or wire on 
which they are suspended with the op- 
posite pole or battery, and turn on 
the current. If the battery is a single 
cell, put a bag of sulphate of copper 
in the solution near the surface. This 
will keep up the strength. The con- 
ditions most favorable to satisfactory 
coppering are a current of low inten- 
sity, quite a strong solution of sul- 
phate of copper slightly acidulated 
with sulphuric acid, and a tempera- 
ture of at least 60°. 

Or, for a cheaper grade of work, 
the dip in nitrate of mercury may be 
omitted. 

Copper Solution for Iron. — To cop- 
perplate cast iron, dip the articles in 
a mixture of SO parts of hydrochloric 
acid and 1 part of nitric acid to free 
them from rust or other impurities. 
Next dip the articles in a solution of 
1 part of nitric acid, and 1 part of 
chloride of copper dissolved in 8 parts 
of hydrochloric acid. Remove from 
the bath and polish with felt, rinse 
with clear water, and dip again until 
the desired coating is obtained, 



This coating may be bronzed by 
rubbing with a mixture of 2 ounces 
of sal ammoniac, i ounce of oxalic 
acid, J ounce of acetic acid, and IS 
ounces of water. 

Electrotyping — Coppering Solu- 
tion for Metals. — Brine water, 3 
quarts; siilphate of copper, 1 pound. 
Mix and immerse the articles. Use 
for this purpose wooden trays lined 
with asphalt. When a sufBcient coat- 
ing has been obtained, remove and 
wash in hot water and polish with 
felt. 

Zincking. — To cover copper and 
brass articles with a layer of pure 
zinc, immerse them in a solution of 
chloride of zinc, and add a quantity 
of pure zinc shavings or filings until 
a considerable sediment is formed at 
the bottom. 

To Regalvanize Zinc Work. — To 
renew the coating of zinc on galvan- 
ized iron or other articles, immerse 
the articles in a dilute solution of 1 
part of sulphuric acid to 10 parts of 
water imtil the old zinc comes off. 
Scour with sand and hot water until 
the surface is bright; dip in a solu- 
tion of sal ammoniac and then in 
molten zinc. The surface of the molt- 
en metal must be covered with a lay- 
er of ground glass to prevent its 
evaporating in fumes. 

Or prepare a solution of sal am- 
moniac, to which add zinc filings or 
zinc foil until a sediment is formed. 
Bring this solution to a boU, and im- 
merse the articles until a. sulficient 
coating is formed. 

Brazing. — Copper may be coated 
with brass by boiling the articles in 
a mixture of argol amalgam, 1 part; 
zinc, 1 part; muriatic acid, 2 parts, 
diluted with sufficient water to cover 
the articles. Copper kettles or other 
utensils may be coated internally by 
filling them with this liquid and boil- 
ing them for a time. 

Or articles of copper or brass may 
be given a superficial coating of 
brass by heating them and exposing 
them to the fumes of melted zinc. 
This method is employed to make imi- 
tation gold wire, and also for cheap 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



401 



jewelry, as it gives a higher luster 
than solid brass. 

To Color Brass Gold. — Mix equal 
parts of muriatic acid and alum with 
warm water, and steep the articles in 
the mixture for a few seconds. 

To Whiten Brass and Copper. — Mix 
equal parts of white tartar alum and 
grain tin. Add water and boil the 
articles in the mixture. They acquire 
a coating of tin which will take a high 
polish like silver. 

Or dissolve 4 ounces of chromate of 
tartar in 1 gallon of boiling water; 
add 2 ounces of tin salt dissolved in 
16 ounces of cold water. Boil, strain, 
and pour in a thin stream into a ves- 
sel containing 13 ounces of hyposul- 
phite of soda dissolved in 1 quart of 
water. Bring to a boil and filter. 

Articles dipped in this solution take 
on a series of brilliant metallic lus- 
ters which vary with the time they 
remain immersed. These range from 
light yellow to dark gold or reddish 
brown. 

Black Dip for Brass. — Dip the ar- 
ticle in tincture of iron. Let dry and 
dip in an infusion of tincture of nut- 
galls. 

Or carbonate of copper, 1 ounce; 
aqua ammonia, 5 pounds; water, 10 
pounds. Suspend the articles in this 
mixture, remove, and polish with felt. 

Bronzing for Metals. — Bronze when 
exposed to the air becomes covered 
with a green coating of a basic cop- 
per carbonate, which protects it from 
further corrosion. As this coating is 
much admired, it may be produced 
artificially in various ways and of 
different tints and shades as may be 
desired. 

The solutions for this purpose vary 
according to the metals to be bronzed 
and the colors wanted. 

To Bronze Zinc. — To 6 pints of 
muriatic acid add 2 pounds of oxide 
of iron and 1 pound of yellow arsen- 
ic. Mix well, let stand 48 hours, and 
shake frequently. It is then fit for 
use. 

Clean the articles perfectly free 
from grease, dip in this mixture, and 
let stand two hoiirs or wntil black- 



Remove and rinse in boiling water. 
Then apply any good liquid blacking 
or paste and polish with a brush. 
Use black lead on the polishing brush 
to darken the color. Lacquer the ar- 
ticle, and the color will remain for 
years. AH' art bronzes are made from 
zinc and treated in this way. 

Or muriatic acid, 1 pint; water, 3 
pints; chrome alum, 45 grains. Clean, 
and dip until colored. Polish with 
lacquer. 

Or, for bronze tints on zinc or iron, 
dissolve 2 ounces of hyposulphite of 
soda and 3 ounces of acetate of lead 
in 3 pints of water. Iron dipped in 
this becomes blue; zinc becomes cop- 
per colored; brass becomes red, deep 
blue, or light blue. 

Bronzing for Brass. — Vinegar, 5 
gallons; blue vitriol, IJ pounds; 
muriatic acid, 3 pints; corrosive sub- 
limate, 3 grains; sal ammoniac, 1 
pound; alum, 4 ounces. Mix togeth- 
er with gentle heat, dip the articles 
until the desired tint is secured, rinse 
in boiling water, and polish with felt 
and lacquer if desired. 

Or warm the article and wash with 
a hot solution of sal ammoniac. Let 
stand over night in a solution of 2 
ounces of verdigris, 1 ounce of am- 
monium chloride, and 6 ounces of vin- 
egar diluted with water. 

Or hyposulphite of soda, 2 ounces; 
acetate of lead, 3 ounces; water, 3 
pints. This gives brass a red, deep- 
blue, or light-blue tint. 

To Color Bronze Green. — To 1 
quart of strong vinegar add i ounce 
of mineral green, J ounce of raw um- 
ber, i ounce of sal ammoniac, i ounce 
of gum arable, and J ounce of cop- 
per. BoU in a little water over a 
slow fire 2 ounces of French berries 
and 3 ounces of green oats until their 
strength is extracted. Add this liquor 
to the mixture, bring all to a boU, 
cool, and strain through flannel. Or 
the oats may be omitted. 

Or dilute 1 part of acetic acid in 
10 parts of water to make 2 pounds; 
add green verditer, 1 ounce; muriate 
of ammonia, i ounce; common salt, 
1 ovmce; alum, J ounce. Boil J pound 



402 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



of French berries in a little water 
until the strength is extracted. Add 
this to the above mixture, bring to 
a boil, and strain. 

Or, for olive brov^n, mix hydro- 
chloric acid, 1 ounce; nitric acid, J 
ounce. Add titanium or palladium 
as long as it dissolves. Strain, and 
add 3 pints of distUled water. 

Or mix equal amounts of sal am- 
moniac and salts of sorrel, and dis- 
solve in vinegar. Dip the articles in 
the solution, or apply it with a brush, 
increasing the color by repeated dip- 
pings or additional coats. The above 
may be applied to articles of copper, 
brass, bronze, or any other metal. 

Bronze — Dark or Brown Shades. — 
Iron filings, 1 pound; arsenic, 1 
ounce; metallic zinc, 1 ounce; hydro- 
chloric acid, 1 pound. Dip the arti- 
cles in this solution and repeat if nec- 
essary. This gives a brown shade. 

Or dissolve salts of copper in water 
and acidulate with nitric acid. This 
gives a blackish bronze. 

Or dissolve salts of copper in liquid 
ammonia and acidulate with acetic 
acid. This gives a dark-red or cop- 
per color. 

Aniline Bronzing Pluid. — Two 
ounces of aniline red and 1 ounce of 
aniline purple dissolved in 10 ounces 
of 95 per cent alcohol. Dissolve with 
gentle heat in a double boiler. Add 
1 ounce of benzoic acid and boil for 
10 minutes, or until the greenish 
color of the mixture changes to a 
light bronze. This is a very brilliant 
bronze paint or varnish, which may 
be applied with a brush to all metals 
or other materials, and dries qviickly. 

Bronze Paint for Iron. — Chrome 
green, 1 pound; ivory black, J ounce; 
chrome yellow, J ounce; japan, J gal- 
lon. Grind all together in linseed 
oil. Mix the boiled linseed oil and 
apply with a paint brush. 

Or to any black paint add sufficient 
chrome yellow to give a dark-green 
shade. Apply this with a brush, dry, 
and coat with a slow-drying varnish. 
When the varnish is tacky, dust on 
bronze powder through a dieese-cloth 
bag. Shake it over the varnish. Let 



dry, and cover with hard copal or 
other varnish. 

To Bronze Gnn Barrels. — Put hy- 
drochloric acid in an open earthen- 
ware vessel, and feed in strips of zinc 
until the acid ceases to take them up. 
Evaporate this liquor with gentle heat 
until a drop on a piece of glass solid- 
ifies on cooling. Cool and add 2 parts 
of olive oil for each 3 parts of the 
liquor. Clean the gun barrels. Warm 
them with gentle heat, and apply this 
mixture with a piece of felt. 

Bronze Powder — Red Bronze. — Sul- 
phate of copper, 10 ounces; carbonate 
of soda, 6 ounces. Mix together with 
gentle heat, pulverize, and add IJ 
ounces of copper filings. Mix, bring 
to a white heat, and keep it so 20 
minutes. When cool, powder, wash 
on filter paper, and dry. 

Gold Bronze. — Verdigris, 4 ounces; 
putty powder, 3 ounces; borax, 1 
ounce; niter, 1 ounce; bichloride of 
mercury, J oimce. Mix to a paste 
with boiled linseed oil and fuse. This 
mixture is used in japanning. 

Cheap Gold Bronze. — Melt 1 pound 
of tin and add J pound of quicksil- 
ver. Stir in 7 ounces of sulphur and 
8 ounces of sal ammoniac, and pul- 
verize. 

Pure Gold Bronze. — Grind gold leaf 
to a powder in pure honey. Dilute 
with clear water and let the gold set- 
tle. Pour off the water and repeat 
vmtil the gold dust is clean. 

Pure Silver Bronze. — Same as the 
above, but substitute silver leaf for 
gold. 

Silver-white Bronze. — ^Melt togeth- 
er 1 ounce of bismuth and 1 ounce 
of tin; add 1 ounce of mercury, cool, 
and pulverize. 

Cheap Gold or Silver Bronze. — 
Grind Dutch leaf to powder. 

Iron-color Bronze. — Grind plum- 
bago to powder. 

Bronze for Plaster Casts. — Coat 
the casts in oil or glue size, and be- 
fore they dry apply bronze powder 
by tapping it on with cotton wool or 
a camel's-hair brush. 

Or hold the powder loosely in a 
piece of cheese cloth, and through this 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



403 



dust it over the surface. Rub smooth- 
ly with a soft cloth. When dry, cover 
with copal varnish. 

Bronze for Leather. — Aniline vio- 
let mixed with a little water and ap- 
plied with a brush gives a beautiful 
bronze luster. 

To Bronze Paper. — Apply a size of 
glue or gum arable in water, and dust 
the powder over the surface. 

Lettering may be done by dipping 
the brush in the size, lettering quick- 
ly, and dusting on the powder before 
the size is dry. 

Printing is done in the same man- 
ner. Afterwards the letters should 
be burnished by going over them with 
a, smooth flatiron as hot as can be 
without scorching the paper. 

Bronze for Medals. — Mix crocus 
powder with water to a thin paste and 
apply with a brush. Afterwards heat 
the metal, and when cool polish. The 
depth of color depends upon the de- 
gree of heat. Heat the metal over 
an open lire. 

Or use powdered black lead in- 
stead of crocus powder. 

Or apply sulphuret of potassium. 

ELECTEOPLATING AlfD ELECTEO- 
TYPING 

Electroplating. — This process con- 
sists in covering, by means of an elec- 
tric current, the surface of articles 
composed of cheaper metals with 
more costly metals, as gold, silver, 
platinum, nickel, copper, etc. The 
process is the same as that employed 
in electrotyping. 

German sUver is perhaps the best 
metal to use as a basis in electropla- 
ting; but iron, zinc, pewter, and other 
metals may also be plated. Articles 
to be plated must first be cleaned and 
scoured to free them from rust or 
other impurities, then dipped in a 
solution of nitrate of mercury to give 
them a thin film of mercury, which 
causes the plating to adhere. They 
are then suspended in a bath con- 
taining a suitable solution, and treat- 
ed by means of the electric current 
as in electrotyping. After being re- 



moved, they are brushed and bur- 
nished. 

Electrotyping. — This is a process 
of making the cast or image of an 
object by gradually depositing metal 
from a solution by means of an elec- 
tric current. Electroplating is done 
on the same principle. 

Electrotyping or electroplating re- 
quires very little apparatus, and can 
be done very cheaply. / It is a prac- 
tical, useful, and instructive art or 
amusement. The principle is very 
simple. If, for example, two strips 
of clean platinum are suspended in a 
solution of sulphate of copper, no ac- 
tion takes place; but if these plati- 
num plates be connected with the op- 
posite poles of an electric battery the 
sulphate of copper solution will be 
decomposed, and the metallic copper 
will be deposited upon the plate or 
surface by which the electric current 
leaves the solution. This is the nega- 
tive pole of the electric battery. By 
reversing the direction of the current 
the copper will be sent back to the 
other plate, and it can thus be sent 
backward and forward indefinitely if 
the current be continually reversed. 

By adding more sulphate of cop- 
per to the solution and continuing the 
electric current, a metallic film of 
copper may be made of any required 
thickness, which may afterwards be 
peeled off the platinum plate if de- 
sired. 

The best conditions for copperpla- 
ting or electrotyping are a rather 
strong solution of sulphate of copper 
slightly acidulated with sulphuric acid 
and at a temperature of not less than 
60°, with an electric current of low 
intensity. Gold and other metals may 
be substituted for copper by suitable 
solutions, as described under electro- 
plating. 

If an object having raised surfaces, 
as a coin or medal, be substituted for 
the strip of platinum at the negative 
pole of the battery, it will be covered 
with metal to any desired depth. This 
may afterwards be stripped off, thus 
giving an exact inverted impression 
of the object, corresponding to a die. 



404 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



If this die or a cast taken from the 
object by means of plaster of Paris 
or wax be substituted for the plati- 
num plate at the negative pole of the 
battery, the depressions in its surface 
will be filled. Thus a solid casting or 
image of the object will be secured, 
and this is the usual method of elec- 
trotyping. 

Hence, to make a cast of an object 
by electrotyping, it is first necessary 
to make an impression of the object 
in wax or plaster of Paris. If plaster 
of Paris is used, the mold must be 
soaked in oil, tallow, or melted wax 
so that it will be impervious to water. 
The surface of the mold must then 
be brushed with a coating of black 
lead to make it a conductor of elec- 
tricity. Or if a cast of the object 
itself is to be made, only half of its 
surface can be electrotyped at one 
time, and the remainder must be cov- 
ered with sealing wax, varnish, or 
shellac. 

Molds for Electrotyping. — To make 
a mold for electrotyping, lay the mod- 
el on a flat surface and cover it with 
a coat of sweet oil or olive oil. Mix 
a little plaster of Paris with water 
to a thin paste and pour it over the 
model. Before the plaster of Paris 
sets, insert in it a wire ring from 
which the wire extends an inch or 
two to form a hook from which to 
suspend the mold in the solution. 
When the plaster sets, carefully re- 
move the model and paint the back 
of the mold and the edges, except 
where it is desired to have the metal 
deposited, with melted sealing wax, 
varnish, or shellac. Now brush black 
lead thoroughly into the mold so as 
to cover every portion of the surface 
and extend upward to , the wire on 
which the mold is to be suspended. 

Or soften wax or gutta percha 
with gentle heat and knead it over 
the model. Treat the impression thus 
formed in the same manner. 

Plaster Casts for Electrotyping. — 
To use plaster as a mold for electro- 
typing, dry it in an oven and boil it 
in a mixture of equal quantities of 
beeswax and rosin until it is satu- 



rated. Cool, and cover evenly with- a 
thin coating of black lead. 

Experiment for Electrotyping. — 
Take an ordinary leaf, lay it on a 
hard surface, and knead over it a bit 
of soft gutta percha or wax to make 
a mold. A little experimenting will 
secure a perfect impression. Remove 
the leaf, heat the end of a wire, and 
thrust it through the mold; brush the 
face of the mold with black lead, var- 
nish the back as above, and attach to 
the negative pole of a battery. Attach 
a piece of copper to the opposite pole, 
facing but not touching it, and cover 
both with a saturated solution of 
copper sulphate slightly acidulated 
with sulphuric acid. Thus a beau- 
tiful model may be taken which will 
show every detail of the leaf. 

Gold - plating Solution. — Mix 4 
ounces of muriatic acid and 3 ounces 
of nitric acid; add 10 pennyweights 
of gold coin, 10 grains of pure cop- 
per, and 8 grains of pure silver. 
Shake until all is dissolved except a 
silver sediment. Add 1 ounce of pul- 
verized borax, 2 ounces of pulverized 
sulphate of iron, SO grains of salt, 
and 2 quarts of hot distilled water. 
Mix or shake vigorously. 

Let this mixture stand until all 
the metals have settled. When they 
have fully settled, pour off the liquor 
and wash the sediment perfectly 
clean, or until it ceases to be acid to 
the taste. This may be done by add- 
ing hot water, shaking, allowing it to 
settle, and pouring off the water as 
often as necessary. The sediment 
consists of the chloride of gold of 
about 18 karats fineness. Add 2J 
ounces of cyanuret of potassium, 3 
quarts of boiling distilled water, 
shake well, and let stand a day or 
two, when it will be ready for use. 

Silver-plating Solution. — Shave 1 
ounce of silver and cover with 3 
ounces of pure nitric acid. Add dis- 
tilled water slowly, J ounce or less at 
a time, as the silver dissolves. Use 
as little water as possible, and when 
all dissolved stir in 3 ounces of salt 
dissolved in 3 pints of water. Stir 
or shake and let the solution settle. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



405 



Wash the sediment until it is no lon- 
ger acid to the taste, add IJ ounces 
of cyanuret of potassium and 16 
ounces of distilled water, and let 
stand a day or two before using. 

To Test Plated Metals. — To test 
silver plating on metals, dissolve J 
ounce of bichromate of potassium in 
nitric acid. Rub the surface to be 
tested with pure alcohol or ether to 
kill grease or varnish. Apply a drop 
of this mixture, and rinse the article 
in cold water. Pure silver is indi- 
cated by a blood-red stain; German 
silver by a brown stain which washes 
off; Britannia metal by a black stain; 
mercury by specks of red, which 
wash off; lead and bismuth by yellow 
stains; tin by a brown stain which 
turns yellow in water; and zinc by 
the active action of the liquid, the 
stain of which is soluble in water. 

Gold Plating without Electricity. 
— Dissolve 14 ounces of gold amal- 
gam in a mixture of 1 ounce of nitric 
acid and 2 ounces of muriatic acid. 
Add 6 ounces of alcohol and immerse 
the articles in this for about 15 
minutes; apply the solution with a 
soft brush or cloth. The articles 
must first be cleaned by dipping 
them in dilute nitric acid or potash 
lye to remove grease and rust and to 
give an absolutely clean surface; oth- 
erwise the amalgam will not adhere. 
Rinse, dry in sawdust or prepared 
chalk, wipe clean with tissue paper, 
and polish with chamois skin. 

Or clean the articles as before, and 
apply gold amalgam with a fine, 
stiff brush. Set them in the oven and 
heat them until the mercury evapo- 
rates, when their color will be a dull 
yellow. Mix equal parts of pow- 
dered saltpeter and alum to a paste 
with water, and go over the gold 
coating with this mixture, using a 
brush. Apply heat until this solu- 
tion is melted, then plunge the arti- 
cles Into cold water and afterwards 
polish. 

Or dissolve i ounce of gold in 1 
ounce of aqua regia, or a mixture of 
nitric and muriatic acids. Add 1 
quart of soft water, and throw in 



gradually hyposulphite of soda in 
crystals. A brown sediment will 
form which will again dissolve if ad- 
ditional hyposulphite is added. When 
this has dissolved, add a little more 
hyposulphite and immerse small ar- 
ticles, or apply the solution by means 
of a brush or sponge. 

Or use this solution to touch up 
gilded articles where the gilding has 
worn or been taken off by accident. 
Apply by means of a brush, and at 
the moment touch the spot with the 
bright side of a. piece of shaving 
whittled from a piece of zinc. 

The above are suitable for silver, 
copper, or brass. 

Solutions for German-silver Pla- 
ting. — To make a solution for elec- 
troplating German silver and other 
metals, take the plate of German 
silver of a known composition and 
prepare a mixture of chlorides of the 
metals in the same proportion that 
they are found in the alloy. If, for 
example, the German silver consists 
of 1 part nickel, 1 part zinc, and 3 
parts copper, dissolve 1 ounce of 
nickel, 1 ounce of zinc, and 2 ounces 
of copper in hydrochloric acid, and 
evaporate the excess of acid by gen- 
tle heat. Dissolve this solution in the 
water for the bath, and add slowly 
potassium cyanide. The metals will 
be first precipitated, but as the cy- 
anide solution is gradually added 
and the bath stirred, the metals will 
be redissolved. The solution will 
then be ready to apply, but to obtain 
the best results it should be raised to 
a temperature of at least 60°. The 
plate of German silver is suspended 
from the positive pole, and the arti- 
cle to be plated, suitably cleaned, 
from the negative pole. 

Brass Plating. — Prepare separate 
solutions of cyanide of potassium 
and neutral tartrate of ammonia in 
water, mix the two solutions for the 
bath, and add the cyanide of copper 
and zinc in the proportions desired 
for the alloy until the bath is satu- 
rated, or until they commence to pre- 
cipitate. Then add black oxide of 
copper and pure zinc white until the 



406 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



bath has dissolved all it can. This 
admits of the use of a weak galvanic 
current. If the color of the brass is 
too light, a little more copper salt 
may be added, or if too dark, a little 
more zinc salt. A brass plate of the 
composition desired is connected 
with the positive pole of the battery, 
and the zinc or other metal to be 
coated, with the negative pole. The 
latter must, of course, be thoroughly 
cleaned with acids and by scrubbing 
to give a chemically clean surface for 
the deposit. 

Hints for Electroplating. — The 
process of electroplating with single 
metals, as copper, silver, gold, and 
the like, on various solid metals is 
very simple, but electroplating with 
aUoys, as German silver, brass, and 
the like, is somewhat more difBcult 
on account of the fact that the elec- 
tric current shows a tendency, if the 
bath is not properly prepared, to de- 
posit one of the metals contained in 
the alloy in preference to the others; 
hence some little experimenting will 
be required to succeed in electropla- 
ting witli alloys. 

A weak current gives the best re- 
sults with single metals, but with al- 
loys it tends to favor one of the 
metals at the expense of the others. 
A strong current tends to deposit a 
rough, thick film which is not tena- 
cious and does not adhere well to 
the article; hence care should be 
taken to prepare the solution for 
alloys exactly according to instruc- 
tion. 

The cyanide solution, which is al- 
ways used for the precious metals, 
will give better results with alloys 
than the sulphate solution used in 
copperplating. All objects to be elec- 
troplated must be carefully cleaned 
before they are put in the bath; hence 
they should be dipped in the mix- 
ture of nitric and muriatic acids to 
remove any oxides, rinsed in water, 
and, if necessary, scoured with pure 
water and sand. On removal from 
the bath after plating, they may 
be dried in sawdust, cleaned, and 
polished. 



Electroplating Silver on Iron. — To 
plate iron or steel, dissolve cyanide 
of potassium in soft water, using 1 
pound of the cyanide to 1 quart of 
water. Dip the articles in pure sul- 
phuric acid, scrub with fine sand and 
a scouring brush, rinse with pure 
water, and suspend them in the cy- 
anide solution tmtil it becomes white. 
Remove and suspend in the silver so- 
lution. 

Or first coat the steel or iron with 
sulphate of copper by suspending it 
in a bath of sulphate of copper, and 
deposit the silver solution on this 
coating. 

To Plate Iron without Electricity. 
— To plate iron with silver without 
electricity, clean and smooth the sur- 
face with a burnisher, heat it to blue- 
ness, lay the silver leaf upon it and 
burnish it down. Continue adding 
silver leaf until the proper thickness 
Is secured. 

Or apply soldering liquid to the 
iron, and thin sheets of solder. Lay 
the silver over this, and heat gently 
until the solder melts. 

Or tin the iron. First lay tin foil 
over it, and silver leaf or thin sheets 
of silver over all, and melt the tin 
with gentle heat. 

Solution for Nickel Plating. — A 
pure solution of the double sulphate 
of nickel and ammonia gives a thick 
deposit with a smooth surface capa- 
ble of taking a high polish, but this 
solution must be chemically pure and 
free from foreign ingredients, espe- 
cially nitric acid, alkalies, and lime. 
If these are used to clean articles to 
be nickel plated, the utmost care must 
be used in rinsing them, as a drop of 
nitric acid will ruin the solution by 
causing the nickel plate to become 
black and streaked. Potash or soda 
gives a deposit of green oxide of 
nickel. Other metals, as copper, zinc, 
and arsenic, must also be avoided. 
Instead of a pure nickel plate at the 
positive pole of the battery, better 
results are obtained by a plate com- 
posed of nickel combined with car- 
bon, and such casting nickel plates 
are now obtainable on the market. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



407 



LACQTTEB 7011 UETALS 

lacquers are of two sorts: (1) 
spirit varnishes or lac varnishes, 
composed of the gums copal, san- 
darac, mastic, shellac, or anime in 
the form of true solutions with al- 
cohol or wood spirits, and the like; 
and (2) Japanese or Chinese lacquer 
work, properly called lacquer, but 
often referred to as "japan." The 
latter frequently does not contain 
any lac at all, but is formed of the 
juice of various nonresinous trees. 

The spirit varnishes or lacquers for 
metals are used to give a gold color 
to articles of brass or other base met- 
als; hence these varnishes are colored 
with tinctures of gummigutta, drag- 
on's blood, gamboge, coralline, picric 
acid, turmeric, Martins yellow, and 
annotto. 

A suitable varnish for this purpose 
consists of 1 ounce of seed-lac, 2 
ounces of sandarac, 2 ounces of 
elemi, and 20 ounces of alcohol, to 
be colored as desired. 

Or a good gold lacquer for brass 
work consists of 6 ounces of seed- 
lac, 2 ounces of turmeric, J ounce of 
dragon's blood, and 1 quart of al- 
cohol. 

The following proportions are rec- 
ommended : 

Gold Lacquer. — Mix 8 ounces of 
turmeric, i ounce of gamboge, IJ 
pounds of sandarac, and 8 ounces of 
white lac powdered, and dissolve in 1 
gallon of alcohol. Add IJ pints of 
turpentine varnish, and bottle and 
cork closely for use. 

Or mix seed-lac, 6 ounces ; turmeric, 
2 ounces; dragon's blood, IJ ounces, 
and cover with alcohol, 1 quart. Put 
the mixture in a glass fruit jar, close 
tightly, and let stand in a warm place, 
shaking frequently until dissolved. 
Heat the mixture, and strain through 
silk or coarse filter paper. 

Or put 1 ounce of oil of lavender 
in a glass bottle, and add 3 ounces of 
turpentine and J ounce of pulverized 
gum copal. Cork tightly and let stand 
in a warm place, shaking occasionally 
until dissolved. 



Or 1 ounce of gum lac, 1 ounce of 
gamboge, 1 ounce of dragon's blood, 
1 ounce of annotto, and i ounce of 
saffron. Dissolve each separately in 2 
ounces of alcohol. Mix the resins, and 
add slowly the coloring matter until 
the proper shade is obtained. 

Gold Lacquer for Tin. — Put in a 
glass bottle 8 ounces of alcohol; add 
1 ounce of gum shellac, J ounce of 
turmeric, and J ounce of red sanders. 
Cork, set in a warm place, and let 
stand until dissolved, shaking occa- 
sionally. Heat the mixture, strain 
through silk, and bottle and cork 
tightly for use. 

Transparent Lacquer. — Dry in an 
oven 10 or 12 ounces of animal char- 
coal. Put it in a metal boiler and 
pour over it S ounces of shellac dis- 
solved in 1 quart of alcohol, and bring 
the solution to a boil. Test the mix- 
ture by letting a drop cool on a glass 
plate. If not perfectly transparent, 
add more charcoal. When the mix- 
ture is clarified, strain through sUk 
and filter paper. 

FBECIOTTB METALS— GOLD AND 
SILVER 

Gold. — Gold is probably the earli- 
est known of the metals, and one of 
the most widely distributed. It is 
among the heaviest, softest, and most 
malleable. It occurs in nearly all the 
great mountain ranges and in sea 
water. United States gold coin con- 
sists of 90 parts pure gold and 10 
parts copper and silver alloy. Silver 
as an alloy gives a pale shade to gold, 
and copper a reddish color. Thus the 
red gold of watch chains and jewelry 
is alloyed with copper. These alloys 
are harder than pure gold, which is 
too soft to wear well in coin or orna- 
ments. The amount of alloy in jew- 
elry varies from 10 per cent to 50 
per cent or more. The ratio between 
gold and its alloys indicates its fine- 
ness, and may be expressed either in 
thousandths or karats. Pure gold is 
1,000 fine, or 24 karats fine. United 
States gold is 900 fine. 

The karat is a weight of 3.17 grains; 



408 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



troy, and is the standard used in 
weighing precious stones. As em- 
ployed to express the fineness of gold, 
it represents j'j part of the pure 
metal. This is the older form still 
used by jewelers and the British mint. 
On this basis equal parts of gold and 
other metals is said to be 12 karat 
fine. Sixteen parts of alloy make an 8 
karat gold, and so on. Common gold 
jewelry is usually 14 karat fine, but a 
better quality is 18 karat. The for- 
mer is usually of a darker shade, due 
to the larger percentage of copper. 

Pure gold is more than nineteen 
times as heavy as water. One cubic 
inch of pure gold weighs 10.13883 
ounces troy, and is valued at $209.38. 
In calculating the value of bullion, 
387 ounces troy are considered to be 
worth $8,000, hence 1 ounce is worth 
$20.6718 +. 

Gold is extremely malleable, as is 
shown by the fineness of gold leaf 
used in gilding. Gold does not rust 
or tarnish by exposure to weather or 
to gases, and is very difficult to dis- 
solve. Ornaments found in ancient 
tombs remain unchanged. Gold may 
be dissolved in chlorine, or a mixture 
of nitric and hydrochloric acids. This 
is known as aqua regia, or the " royal 
liquid," as gold was called by the al- 
chemists " the royal metal," and this 
mixture was thought by them to be 
the only solvent capable of attack- 
ing it. 

Gold is sometimes alloyed with the 
rare metal palladium, and with plati- 
num. These give a hard and very 
elastic alloy. Mercury unites freely 
with gold to form an amalgam. The 
value of gold as money rests not only 
on its beauty and durability, but also 
upon the fact that it cannot be ob- 
tained without a certain amount of 
human labor, and this fact helps to 
determine its value and establish a re- 
lation between it and other commodi- 
ties. Hence gold is at once a measure 
of the labor performed and the re- 
ward of labor. Enormous amounts 
of gold are used in the arts and con- 
sumed by the wear of coin and jew- 
elry. Approximately one sixth of the 



annual production of gold is estima- 
ted to be used for purposes other than 
coinage. 

Gold leaf. — One ounce of gold may 
be beaten out so thin as to cover 189 
square feet of surface, but this is not 
customary, 1,000 square feet to the 
ounce troy being the usual measure. 
Ordinary gold leaf is so thin as to 
require 282,000 sheets to make a pile 
an inch high. At this thinness it 
transmits a, light somewhat the same 
as would be given by a piece of green 
glass. One grain of gold may be 
drawn into a wire 500 feet long. Gold 
leaf is used in gilding and by dentists 
in filling teeth. 

The art of gold beating is known 
to but few. For dentists' use the gold 
is perfectly pure, but for gilders' use 
various alloys of silver and copper 
are added, according to color. The 
gold is first rolled into ribbons, of 
which 700 are required to make an 
inch in height, and then placed be- 
tween the leaves of a little book made 
of parchment, which is laid on a stone 
anvil and beaten by workmen with a 
16-pound round hammer having a, 
broad, round face. Several other proc- 
esses are required, all of which are 
done by hand. When completed, the 
gold leaf is placed in books or tissue 
paper 3J inches square, the leaves of 
which are rubbed with red ocher to 
prevent the gold from sticking. Each 
of these holds 25 leaves or 5i grains 
of gold. Torn gold leaf may be 
mended by laying another torn leaf 
on the top of the first and making a 
cut near the center by means of a 
thin, sharp strip of reed. The leaves 
unite along the line of the cut by 
their own weight, and if skillfully 
done no trace of the welding is 
visible. 

To Alloy Gold.— For 18 karat gold, 
melt together 18 gold, 4 copper, 3 sil- 
ver, if the metals are pure. Or 19J 
gold coin, 3 copper, IJ silver. 

For 16 karat, if pure, 16 gold, 5i 
silver, \ copper. Or 17 gold coin, 5 
copper, 2 silver. 

For 13 karat, 36 gold coin, 13J cop- 
per, 8J sUver. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



409 



For 4 karat, 16 copper, 4 gold, 2 
silver. This last, of course, is used 
only for cheap jewelry, but it is hard- 
er and more durable than the better 
grades, and is more suitable for stick- 
pins and the like. 

To Make Gold Powder.— Mix gold 
leaf with honey or a, solution of gum 
arable, and rub the mixture in a mor- 
tar until the gold is sufficiently fine. 
Dilute the solution with water, and 
decant or wash on filter paper until 
the pure gold remains. 

Alloy of Gold. — Melt 7J parts of 
pure gold and add J part of plati- 
num. This alloy is whiter than gold, 
but ductile, elastic, and much less 
perishable than pure gold or the bet- 
ter grades of gold used for jewelry. 
It melts readily, however, and is solu- 
ble in nitric acid. 

Artificial Gold. — Sixteen platinum, 
7 copper, 1 zinc. Melt in a crucible, 
cover with powdered charcoal, and 
mix with saltpeter and sal ammoniac. 

Or 4 platinum, 2J copper, 1 zinc, 3 
tin, 1^ lead. 

Or 3 platinum, 1 silver, 3 copper. 
If the resulting mixture is not per- 
fectly homogeneous, it may be hard 
and brittle. In that case melt down 
with sal ammoniac. Repeat if neces- 
sary. These alloys very closely re- 
semble gold. 

Gold Solder. — Six gold, 1 silver, 3 
copper. Use the pure metals. Melt 
together. 

Or 14 gold, 1 silver, 1 copper. This 
is a soft gold solder which may be 
made softer by adding brass, but this 
makes it liable to oxidize. 

Or 7 silver, 1 copper with borax. 

Or 3 gold, 1 silver, 1 copper. 

Or 3 gold, 3 silver, 1 copper, J zinc. 

Platinum Solder. — Use pure gold 
with borax. 

Gold Amalgam. — This consists of 8 
parts gold to 1 part mercury, and is 
used principally in gilding. Heat in 
a crucible the gold in thin strips to 
near the melting point, and add to it 
the mercury. The two metals will 
unite, boiling vigorously. When cold, 
the amalgam is ready to use. 

Gilding. — On account of its beauty, 



and the fact that it will not rust or 
corrode from exposure to the air, a 
thin film of gold is often applied to 
silver or cheaper metals, wood, paper, 
leather, and other materials for deco- 
rative purposes. This may be done 
in three different ways: by means of 
gold powder, gold leaf, or by a solli- 
tion, an amalgam, or a mixture of 
gold in liquid form. 

To Gild Metals. — Dissolve in water 
8 ounces of niter, 8 ounces of com- 
mon salt, and S ounces of alum. Dis- 
solve J ounce of gold separately in 1 
ounce of aqua regia, and evaporate 
with gentle heat to dryness. Mix the 
settlings with alcohol or ether. Dip 
the articles to be gilded in the niter, 
salt, and alum solution, and brush 
them over with the ethereal solution 
of gold. 

Or dip the articles in the ethereal 
solution. Remove and allow the ether 
to evaporate. 

Steel cutting instruments given a 
thin coat of gold by this method will 
be preserved from rust, or lettering 
may be done by means of this solu- 
tion on iron or steel. 

Or the articles may be washed with 
a solution of nitrate of mercury, and 
an amalgam of gold and mercury ap- 
plied with a brush. They must then 
be heated to drive off the mercury in 
the form of vapor. 

Or make a saturated solution of 
gold and aqua regia, and soak fine 
linen rags in it until it is all absorbed. 
Carefully dry these and burn them to 
tinder. Polish the article to be gilt, 
dip a brush in a solution of common 
salt in water, then into this tinder, and 
rub over the surface of the articles. 

Or expose articles of iron, steel, 
copper, or other hard metal to a blu- 
ing heat. Lay on gold leaf and bur- 
nish gently. Continue the heat and 
add gold leaf until the desired thick- 
ness has been obtained. Cool and 
burnish. 

Gilding by Amalgam, — Take J 
ounce troy of fine gold, 1 ounce of 
nitric acid, | ounce of hydrochloric 
acid, and soft water J ounce. Put all 
in a glass vessel and heat gently in a 



410 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



double boiler until the fumes cease to 
rise. Add 30 ounces of water, boil 
for 3 hours, let it settle, and pour 
off the clear liquor from the sedi- 
ment for use. Clean and polish the 
articles to be gilt, and suspend them 
in this liquor by means of a fine wire 
or a horsehair. When sufSciently gilt, 
wash in pure water. 

Gilding: oa Silver, or Grecian Gild- 
ing. — Dissolve equal parts of sal am- 
moniac and corrosive sublimate or bi- 
chloride of mercury, in nitric acid, 
and dissolve a suitable amount of gold 
in this solution. Evaporate the ex- 
cess of acid with gentle heat until the 
mixture is as thick as cream. When 
the gold is dissolved, brush the silver 
articles with the mixture, which will 
turn them black, but on exposing 
them to a red heat the mercury will 
be driven off in the form of vapor and 
the gold will remain. 

Or dip the articles in salt water, 
and rub them with ashes of linen rags 
previously dipped in a solution of 
gold in aqua regia. 

Or dip the articles in the solution 
of gold. 

To Color Gilding. — To 1 pint of 
water add 4 ounces of pure saltpeter, 
3 ounces of alum, and 2 ounces of 
common salt. Apply to gilt articles 
with a brush to improve the color. 

Or cover the articles with a mix- 
ture of wax, verdigris, and blue 
vitriol, expose to a red heat, and 
polish. 

Or boil the articles in a solution of 
equal parts of common salt and 
cream of tartar. 

Gold Powder for Gilding. — Mix 
gold leaf with honey or with a solu- 
tion of gum arable in water, and 
grind in a mortar imtil the gold is 
finely powdered. Dilute the mixture 
with water and pour it off from the 
sediment, or wash the gold on filter 
paper, and dry. 

Or dissolve pure gold or gold leaf 
in aqua regia, and introduce a piece 
of copper to precipitate the gold. 

Or add a little sulphate of iron. 

If copper is used, mix the sediment 
In distilled vinegar, wash by pouring 



water over it on filter paper, and dry. 
This is a much finer powder than can 
be prepared by grinding in honey. 

Size for Gilding on Glass or China. 
-^Dissolve J ounce of isinglass in 4 
ounces of boiling water. When dis- 
solved, cool and add 2 ounces of al- 
cohol. Mix gold powder with borax 
in a thick solution of gum arable dis- 
solved in water. Dip the glass in the 
size, and paint or trace the design by 
means of a camel's-hair brush. Bake 
the articles in a hot oven until the 
borax is melted, when the gold wiU be 
fixed on the gleiss. 

Or paint or trace the design in a 
size of copal varnish. Dissolve with 
gentle heat 1 ounce of copal in 1 
ounce of boiled linseed oil, and thin 
with oil of turpentine until the solu- 
tion can be freely applied with a 
brush. Heat the glass as hot as it 
can be handled, paint the design in 
the varnish, and lay on a piece of 
gold leaf. When dry, brush off the 
superfluous leaf, which will not stick 
to the part of the glass not varnished, 
and when cold burnish as usual. 

To Remove Gilding on Glass or 
China. — Mix soft water, 1 ounce; 
nitric acid, 1 ounce; common salt, J 
ounce; sal annnoniac, J ounce. Bring 
the mixture to a boil, and put the 
articles in it or apply it to them with 
a stiff brush. 

To Handle Gold Leaf. — Wax smooth 
sized paper and slip pieces between 
the leaves of the book of gold leaf, 
pressing each piece smoothly with the 
hand so that the gold leaf will be 
brought in contact with the waxed 
surface. Held in this way the gold 
leaf will not fall or be blown away 
by a draught, however strong. 

Oil Gilding on Wood. — First apply 
to the wood two or three coats of 
boiled linseed oil and carbonate of 
lead. This fills the pores and gives a 
smooth surface. Dry thoroughly and 
apply a thin coat of gold size, con- 
sisting of red oxide of lead ground 
in boiled linseed oil, which should be 
as thick and hard as possible. Thin 
with turpentine and apply with a 
brush. Let stand about twelve hours, 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



411 



or until nearly dry. Then apply the 
gold. 

To handle the gold leaf, make a. 
cushion of several thicknesses of flan- 
nel cloth, tack it on a piece of wood, 
and cover it tightly and smoothly with 
chamois skin. On this lay the sheet 
of gold, and with a hlunt pallet knife 
or reed cut it into strips the width of 
the wood. Take up these strips on 
the bristle points of a fine brush, ap- 
ply them, and smooth them gently 
with a wad of absorbent cotton. So 
continue, and as the size sets brush 
off the last particles of gold leaf with 
a camel's-hair brush. Let stand two 
or three days to dry completely. This 
method is chiefly useful for out-of- 
door work as the gold leaf cannot tar- 
nish and is not injured by changes of 
weather, exposure to the air, or mois- 
ture. 

For inside work, as picture frames 
which require burnishing, boil down 
to a stiff jelly pieces of white leather, 
as an old kid glove or parchment clip- 
pings, and apply a thick coat with a 
brush. Mix with this size a little fine 
plaster of Paris or prepared chalk, 
and apply eight or ten coats of this 
mixture, letting each coat dry be- 
fore the next is applied. Then lay 
on a thick coat of the same size mixed 
with Armenian bole or yellow oxide 
of lead, and to this apply the gold 
leaf in strips with a brush, and rub 
down with a cotton ball. Burnish as 
soon as the size sets, and before the 
work is fully dry, by means of a 
smooth piece of agate or ivory. This 
method of gilding is suitable only to 
indoor work, as dampness will cause 
the gold to peel. Clean by brushing 
with hot alcohol or oil of turpentine. 

To Gild Ivory.-^Immerse the ivory 
in a solution of gold in aqua regia, 
and while damp expose to hydrogen 
gas, and immediately wash in clear 
water. 

Or prepare a fresh solution of pro- 
tosulphate of iron, dip the ivory in 
this, and then in a solution of chloride 
of gold. 

To Gild Shells. — Grind gold leaf 
into a solution of gum arabic in 



water, and apply to the shells with a 
brush. 

To Gild Silks and Satins. — Trace 
or paint the desired design with a 
solution of gold in aqua regia diluted 
with 3 parts of water, and expose the 
design while wet to a stream of hy- 
drogen gas. Rinse in clear water. 
Hydrogen gas is evolved by the de- 
composition of water containing sul- 
phuric acid and iron filings. If the 
wet cloth is held in these fumes the 
painted designs will shortly come out 
in pure gold, and will not tarnish on 
exposure to the air or inf washing. 

To Gild live Fish. — Smear the in- 
side of an earthen bowl with white 
pitch, warm it gently, and scatter pul- 
verized amber over the pitch. Re- 
move from the fire, add 3 pounds of 
oleum lini and 1 pound of oleum tere- 
binth mixed together. Cover and boil 
for 1 hour with gentle heat. Mix 
with pumice stone to the consistency 
of paint. Take a live fish from the 
water, dry it by means of a cloth, 
and apply this paint with a brush. 
Immediately spread gold leaf over it, 
and rub dry with a soft cloth. Re- 
turn the fish to the water. The lon- 
ger this varnish is under water the 
harder it grows, and it does the fish 
no harm. 

To Gild leather. — Lettering and 
other designs are stamped on leather, 
as in bookbinding, by means of gold 
leaf and suitable tools or stamps. 
The leather is dusted with finely pow- 
dered rosin or gum mastic. The tool 
is first heated in an open fire, the heat 
of which is tested by means of a piece 
of waste leather. A little experience 
is required to gauge the degree of 
heat required. A suitable piece of 
gold leaf is cut on a leather pad or 
cushion, properly applied, and the 
tool pressed down upon it. The de- 
sign will be indented in the leather, 
the rosin melted, and the gold leaf 
caused to adhere. 

After the designs have all been 
stamped, wipe off the superfluous gold 
leaf with a slightly greasy linen cloth, 
which will cause the excess of gold 
to adhere. This cloth may be burned 



412 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



and the ash used for gilding, or it 
may be sold to refiners or allowed for 
when purchasing additional gold leaf. 

To Gild Paper. — To gild the edges 
of books or other paper, fasten them 
in a vise in a horizontal position and 
apply a size of 4 ounces of Armenian 
.bole and 1 ounce of rock sugar dis- 
solved in water and mixed with the 
white of egg. This size when nearly 
dry is smoothed with an agate bur- 
nisher, and then slightly moistened 
with a sponge wrung out of clear 
water. The gold leaf is cut to the 
proper width on a cushion, laid on the 
moistened surface, and when dry bur- 
nished by rubbing with the agate bur- 
nisher from end to end. Or the 
burnishing is sometimes done over a 
piece of silk or India paper. A pad 
of cotton wool is used to lift the gold 
leaf from the cushion. 

To Design in Gold on paper or 
parchment, dilute common ink with 
a little glue size. Form the design 
with this, and when dry moisten 
slightly with the breath. This will 
make the leather slightly sticky and 
cause gold leaf to adhere. 

Or grind white lead or chalk with 
a strong size, and apply with a brush. 
Lay on the gold leaf before this dries, 
and afterwards burnish. Or mix gold 
powder with size, and letter with a 
brush. This method is supposed to 
have been used by the monks in il- 
luminating missals, psalters, and ru- 
brics. 

Regildlng. — To renew gilt molding 
tarnished by dirt or moisture, apply 
u weak solution of salts of tartar in 
water with a soft cloth, and rinse with 
cold water. 

Or, to regild molding, rub down the 
molding with a moistened cloth dipped 
in pumice stone. Apply a coat of 
shellac varnish and a suitable gold 
size. Cut gold leaf on a leather cush- 
ion to the proper size and lay on by 
means of a camel's-hair brush, letting 
the leaf slightly overlap. Burnish 
with agate or ivory, let stand a day 
or two to dry, and cover with shellac 
or copal varnish. 

Or, instead of gold leaf, apply 



bronze powder, and when dry coat 
with copal varnish. 

Or, to retouch gilt frames, apply 
isinglass size to chipped or broken 
places, and when it becomes tacky lay 
on gold leaf gently with a pad of 
cotton wool, and when dry burnish. 

Or retouch with gold paint by 
means of a camel's-hair brush. 

Silver. — Silver is the whitest of the 
metals capable of taking a brilliant 
polish. It is malleable and ductile. 
The finest silver leaf requires 1,000,- 
000 sheets to make an inch in thick- 
ness. A grain of silver may be drawn 
into a wire 400 feet in length. Silver 
is ten or eleven times as heavy as 
water, according to condition and 
purity. Melted silver absorbs from 
the air about twenty times its volume 
of oxygen, which is given oflF when the 
metal solidifies. As the surface tends 
to cool first, the ejection of this oxy- 
gen from the inner part of the mass 
may cause an explosion. Hence it is 
customary to melt silver under pow- 
dered charcoal or in the presence of 
niter. Silver conducts heat and elec- 
tricity, and can be welded and alloyed 
with gold, copper, and other metals. 
In addition to its use in coinage, 
which is very ancient, silver is largely 
used for tableware and jewelry, but 
solid silver is now replaced largely by 
alloys of nickel and other metals, which 
are covered with pure silver by elec- 
troplating. Silver coin contains a pro- 
portion of alloy, usually copper. The 
United States and French standard of 
fineness is 900, or 900 parts of silver 
to 100 of copper. In Great Britain 
the standard is .935. This is the fine- 
ness of sterling silverware. 

Among the compounds of silver, sil- 
ver chloride is used in photography, 
and silver nitrate, or lunar caustic, 
is used in surgery, photography, elec- 
troplating, and for marking inks. 

Silver Jewelry. — Common jewelry 
contains a portion of iilloy, according 
to the degree of hardness required. 
Sterling silver contains 925 parts sil- 
ver, 75 parts copper. The hardest al- 
loy contains 4 silver, 1 copper. A 
medium hard alloy, 3 sterling silver. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



413 



1 brass wire. A soft alloy, 2 pure 
silver, 1 brass wire. 

Silver Solder. — Silver 19, copper 1, 
brass 10. 

Or silver 3, brass 1 with borax. 

Or silver 4, brass 3, zinc /j- with 
borax. 

For silver plate, silver 2, brass 1 
with borax. 

To Purify Silver.— To obtain pure 
silver, dissolve silver containing alloy 
in nitric acid, and add a solution of 
common salt as long as a precipitate 
is formed. Boil the sediment in water 
in a bright iron vessel, wash with 
clean water, and dry. 

Silver Tree. — Dissolve 1 ounce of 
nitrate of silver in 35 ounces of dis- 
tilled water. Filter and put the liquid 
in a suitable glass vessel where it will 
not be disturbed. Pour in 1 ounce 
of. mercury. A beautiful silver tree 
will form. 

United States Mint Test for Coun- 
terfeit Silver. — Dissolve 24 grains of 
nitrate of silver in 30 drops of nitric 
acid and 1 ounce of water. Scrape 
the coin to be tested and apply a 
drop of the liquid. If it turns black, 
reject it. 

To Clean Silver. — To clean orna- 
ments of jewelry and silver, put the 
articles in suds made of castile soap 
in hot water and bring to a boil. Re- 
move from the fire and let the articles 
stand in the suds until they will bear 
the hands, then scrub gently with a 
soft toothbrush or jeweler's brush, 
rinse in clear water, dip in benzine or 
alcohol, place in an earthenware bowl 
or other utensil, and cover with box- 
wood shavings. Let this stand in a 
warm place until the articles are per- 
fectly dry. Any moisture remaining 
on them causes them to tarnish. 
When not in use they should be put 
in a wooden box and covered with 
fine sawdust. 

Silvering. — A thin coating of me- 
tallic silver may be added to other 
metals, glass, textile fabrics, and other 
materials, either in various mixtures 
in liquid form or by means of silver 
powder or silver leaf. 

For a silver solution without elec- 



tricity, dissolve nitrate of silver in 
soft water, using 1 ounce of silver 
to 1 quart of water. Add slowly hy- 
posulphite of soda in crystals, stir- 
ring the mixture with a glass rod. A 
brown precipitate will form, but if 
additional hyposulphite is added, it 
will again dissolve. A little more hy- 
posulphite should then be added. The 
articles to be silvered may be dipped 
in this solution, or it may be applied 
to them with a brush or sponge. 

Or this mixture may be evaporated 
with gentle heat to the consistency of 
paint, and used to retouch plated ar- 
ticles where the plate has been worn 
off. Apply it by means of a camel's- 
hair brush, and at the same moment 
touch the spot with the bright edge 
of a zinc shaving freshly cut. 

Or mix equal parts by weight of 
cream of tartar and nitrate of silver. 
Moisten with water and rub on the 
surface to be plated. 

Or mix 1 ounce of chloride of sil- 
ver, 3 ounces of pearlash, IJ ounces 
of common salt, and 1 ounce of whit- 
ing. Apply this mixture to the metal 
with chamois or a piece of cork mois- 
tened with water and dipped in the 
powder. Apply all that will stay on. 
Then dip the articles in hot water con- 
taining a little borax, and wipe' dry. 

Or dissolve 20 grains of silver in 
nitric acid, and insert a piece of cop- 
per to cause the silver to be thrown 
down. Mix this powdered silver with 
2 drams of tartar, 2 drams of com- 
mon salt, and J dram of alum. Mois- 
ten a cork or piece of chamois, dip 
in this mixture, and rub over the ar- 
ticles to be silvered. 

To Silver Cloth. — To silver silk, 
woolen, cotton, or other fabrics, wash 
the articles and rinse in clean water. 
Dip them in a saturated solution of 
gallic acid. Remove and dip quickly 
in a solution of 1 part of nitric acid 
to SO parts of distilled water. Dip 
alternately in the two solutions until 
the articles instead of being dark in 
color take on a brilliant hue. Then 
pour the two solutions together and 
immerse the articles until they are 
completely silvered. Remove and boil 



414 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



in a solution of salts of tartar in 
water, rinse, and dry. 

To Silver Shells. — Grind silver leaf 
into a solution of gum arable in water, 
and apply with a brush. 

To Silver Glass Globes. — Melt to- 
gether equal parts of tin and lead, 
and while melted add 2 parts bismuth 
and 3 parts mercury. Remove from 
the fire, and when cool enough not to 
break the glass pour the mixture into 
the globe, and move it slowly about so 
that the amalgam will pass over every 
part of its interior. This will leave 
a thin film wherever it touches the 
glass. 

Or melt 1 part tin, 1 part lead, 
1 part bismuth, and 3 parts mercury. 

Or to pure mercury add tin foil as 
long as the mercury remains liquid. 

Or melt together 1 part lead and 1 
part tin; add 1 part bismuth and 10 



parts mercury. The more mercury is 
added the more brilliant will be the 
silvering. 

To Silver Ivory. — Prepare sepa- 
rately a saturated solution of gallic 
acid and a solution of 1 part of ni- 
trate of silver to SO parts of soft 
water. Apply these two solutions al- 
ternately to articles of ivory, paper, 
and other materials to be silvered, 
untU the proper coating is secured. 
Rinse with clear water, and dry with 
gentle heat. 

Or prepare a weak solution of ni- 
trate of silver, and in this immerse 
the ivory until it takes on a deep-yel- 
low color. Remove and place it in 
clear water and let it stand in direct 
sunshine for three or four hours, or 
until it turns completely black. Pol- 
ish briskly with dry chamois, and a 
bright-sUver color wUI appear. 



CHAPTER XV 

THE FAMILY WORKROOM 
Part Four — Leather, Ink, and Miscellaneous 

TANNING LEATHER— COLORING AND CARE OF LEATIIER— BOOTS 
AND SHOES — OVERSHOES — WATER-PROOFING LEATHER — 
BLACKING LEATHER— WRITING INK— MARKING INKS— COL- 
ORED INKS— SPECIAL INKS— CARE OF INK— CARE OF JEWELRY 
—GLASS AND IVORY— GYPSUM. ALABASTER, ETC. 



TANNING LEATHEE 

Leather is a combination of the 
hides of animals with substances 
which preserve it and make it useful 
in the arts and manufactures. The 
art of tanning is very ancient. Abra- 
ham is described in the Old Testa- 
ment as giving Hagar a water bottle 
of leather, which it is supposed must 
have been tanned with bark. Speci- 
mens of leather tanned with alum 
have been found in China that are at 
least 3,000 years old. 

Hide may be converted into leather 
in three ways: either by the use of 
astringents, as bark galls and the like; 
or by the use of some mineral — alum, 
chrome, or other — as a preservative; 
or by the use of oU. The leather of 
commerce consists of heavy grades in 
two classes, sole and upper; skins 
used for decorative purposes; and 
others. The hides of fur-bearing ani- 
mals are also tanned with the fur on. 
Hides are bought by weight either 
"dry" or "green-salted," the latter 
being freshly skinned and salted down 
to prevent decay. 

Both kinds before being tanned are 
soaked from four to ten days in the 
tannery to moisten the fibers and get 
them as near to the natural state as 
possible. The hides are then either 
sweated or limed. Sweating leather 
consists in hanging the hides in a 



warm, moist room to loosen the root 
hairs so that they can be taken oflf 
with a knife or machine. Liming con- 
sists in immersing the hides from four 
to six days in quicklime, slaked and 
diluted with water. Limed hides are 
held superior to sweated hides. The 
hides are next immersed in a solution 
of dung, which contains some of the 
pepsin and pancreatin or digestive 
juices formed in the animals. This 
solution partly digests the hide. The 
object of soaking, liming, and bating 
is to remove all the soft substances 
which naturally occur among the 
fibers of the leather, leaving nothing 
but the network of clean fiber for the 
tanning liquor to act upon. When 
the hide is finally immersed in the 
tanning liquor, tlie substance called 
tannin penetrates into the fiber and 
changes it to chemically pure leather. 

Or, if alum, chrome, zinc, or man- 
ganese is used in the form of a metal- 
lic salt, as copperas, sulphate of lime, 
bichromate of potash, sulphate of zinc, 
or permanganate of potash, it simply 
penetrates and surrounds the fiber in 
such a way as to keep the air from 
getting to it. The effect of oil is 
somewhat similar, as it penetrates the 
leather and surrounds the fibers with 
an air-proof and waterproof coating. 

Tanning Materials. — Tannin is 
found in two classes of materials: 
one, the natural bark of various trees, 



415 



416 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



as oak, hemlock, sumac, etc.; the oth- 
er, in certain abnormal growths on 
various trees caused by diseases and 
the stings of insects, as, for example, 
galls. Oak bark contains about 10 
per cent of tannin. Hemlock bark 
and pine bark, which are cheaper than 
oak and make an equally strong and 
durable leather, contain 7 to 12 per 
cent. Gambia, imported from Singa- 
pore, consists of the leaves of a large 
bush boiled and formed into blocks. 
Sumac, which contains IS to 25 per 
cent of tannin, consists of the leaves 
of the sumac bush ground to powder 
and packed in bags. These are tlie 
principal tanning materials used in 
the United States. 

Galls are diseased excrescences pro- 
duced on the leaves of OEtk, sumac, 
and other trees by the stings of in- 
sects. Apple galls contain 60 to 75 
per cent of tannin; istrien, 32 per 
cent; Persian, 30 per cent; Chinese, 
80 per cent. Kopperin, which is 
similar to galls, is found on the 
acorn or leaf of the oak tree, es- 
pecially the steel oak of Hungary, and 
is imported from Austria. It contains 
37 to 33 per cent of tannin. 

Tanning Extracts. — The tanning 
extracts dissolved in cold water give 
better results in color, quicker tan- 
nage, and better weight than the 
barks themselves. Hence these are 
commonly used to strengthen weak 
bark liquors. Oak, chestnut, pine, 
hemlock, and other extracts are on 
fhe market and are used in very large 
quantities. 

Hence, to tan hides, soak the hide 
from four to ten days, or until soft 
and pliable. Immerse in a thin milk- 
of-lime solution until the hair can be 
easily removed. Scrape the hide with 
a knife, remove all flesh with a shav- 
ing knife, and thoroughly wash the 
hide to remove the lime. Soak in a 
solution of gum at 96° to 100° F., and 
finally immerse in a tan pit contain- 
ing bark and water or a solution of 
tanning extract, according to the char- 
acter of the skin and strength of the 
tanning material employed. It will 
be seen that the commercial process 



requires suitable facilities and con- 
siderable experience. 

But to tan undressed hide on the 
farm, spread the skin flesh side up, 
and apply equal parts of saltpeter 
and ammonia in powdeJed form 
sprinkled evenly over the surface. 
RoU the skin up and let stand a few 
days unta dissolved. Scrape off any 
flesh that remains, nail the skin to 
the sides of ' a building or a board 
fence, stretch tightly, and apply lib- 
erally warm neat's-foot oil with a 
brush. Let stand in the sun, and 
finally rub out all the oil you can 
with a wedge-shaped stick. This is 
the method of tanning with the hair 
on. 

Or immerse the skin in thin milk 
of lime 4 or S days, scrape off the 
hair and any flesh remaining, and 
wash to free from lime. Plunge the 
skin into a solution of bran and 
water, and let stand for 2 days. Pre- 
pare an astringent liquor by boil- 
ing i pound of apple galls, IJ ounces 
of Bengal catechu, and 6 pounds of 
tormentil or septfoil. Soak in 17 gal- 
lons of water for 1 hour. Take the 
skin from the bran water and plunge 
in this liquor. Handle it several 
times a day for 3 or 4 days, let it 
stand 3 or 4 days undisturbed, and 
then handle three or four times the 
next day. Finally let it lie undis- 
turbed for a month, and the tanning 
will be completed. 

To Tan Fur Skins. — Soak the skins 
and scrape flesh and the fatty matter 
from the flesh side. When clear, im- 
merse in warm water for an hour. 

Mix for each skin J ovmce of borax, 
saltpeter, and Glauber's salts with 
water to a thin paste, and apply to 
the flesh side with a brush, suiting the 
coat to the thickness of the skin. 

Lay the skins, flesh sides together, 
in a cool place. After twenty-four 
hours wash them clean. 

Melt slowly together with gentle 
heat 1 ounce of sal soda, J ounce of 
borax, and 2 ounces of castile soap. 
Apply with a brush. Fold the skins, 
flesh sides together, and let them 
stand in a warm place 24 hours. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



417 



Finally soak them for 12 hours 
in a solution of 4 ounces of alum, 8 
ounces of salt, and 2 ounces of sal- 
eratus, with hot water enough to cov- 
er them. ^The water should not be 
hotter than the hands can bear. Af- 
ter 12 hours take out the skins, 
wring out the water, and let them 
dry. 

Repeat the last process, if neces- 
sary, until the skins are soft. 

Finally moisten a cloth in warm 
water, dip it in pumice stone, and rub 
the inside. 

To Tan Sheepskins and Goatskins 
with the Hair on. — Clean the flesh 
side of fat and meat, mix i pound of 
alum and i pound of salt in 2 quarts 
of water, and soak the skins in this 
mixture 24 hours. Remove and nail 
to the sunny side of a building, flesh 
side out, until bone dry. Mix 2 
pounds of pulverized alum, 1 pound 
of salt, and 1 quart of wheat bran 
with water to a thick paste, and ap- 
ply evenly to the flesh side of the 
skin. Fold the skins in the middle 
with the flesh sides together, roll up, 
and put away for 6 or 8 days, pro- 
tected from water and vermin. Then 
brush away the mixture, apply neat's- 
foot oil warm with a brush, and rub 
the skin between the hands until it 
is pliable. 

Or wash the skins with strong suds 
and water to remove dirt from the 
wool, soak them over night in soap 
and water, and tack them, flesh side 
down, over a barrel to dry. When 
nearly dry, remove them, clean off any 
pieces of flesh or fat that remain, and 
rub prepared chalk over the skin un- 
til no more can be rubbed in. Then 
rub with powdered alum, and sprinkle 
alum thickly over the flesh side. 

Or, instead of chalk and alum, rub 
the skins with a mixture of saltpeter 
and alum, afterwards fold the skins 
with the flesh sides together, roll them 
up tightly and lay them away for a 
week where they will be perfectly dry. 
Finally rub down the flesh side with 
a damp cloth dipped in pumice or 
rotten stone to smooth and polish. 
This is a suitable treatment for coon. 



squirrel, and other skins used for 
caps, for sheepskins and goatskins 
used for rugs, for lambskins used for 
coats and vests, and for all similar 
purposes. 

COLOBIITG AND CASE OF LEATHER 

Grain Side Black for Leather. — 
Throw into a tight tub or cask a 
quantity of old iron; fill it nearly full 
of salt water, and add 1 pint of sul- 
phuric acid. Stir occasionally with a 
stick, and in a month or two it will 
be first-rate blacking for the grain 
side of leather. This is also suitable 
for boot, shoe, and harness edges. 

Or dissolve 2 ounces of ground log- 
wood and 12 ounces of bablah in 13J 
pounds of water. Boil down to 6i 
pounds, and filter through cheese 
cloth, and add 1 ounce of powdered 
gum arable, 1 ounce of sugar, and 3 
ounces of copperas. Add also 1 or 2 
drams of corrosive sublimate to pre- 
vent mold. 

Or boil i ounce of extract of log- 
wood in 2 quarts of water 2 or 3 min- 
utes. Remove from the fire, and add 
96 grains of gum arable, 48 grains of 
bichromate of potash, and 8 grains of 
prussiate of potash. 

Or mix 1 pint of alcohol with J 
ounce of sweet oil. Add IJ ounces of 
tincture of iron, 1 ounce of extract 
of logwood, 1 ounce of pulverized 
nutgalls, and i pint of water. This 
gives a very fine finish, but is some- 
what expensive. 

Or, to blacken tan leather, make a 
saturated solution of copperas in 
water and apply with a swab or 
brush. 

To Dye Leather. — To dye leather 
blue, steep it in an indigo bath. 

For red, steep it in alum water 
and pass it through a warm decoction 
of Brazil wood. 

For purple, steep the skins in alum 
water, then in a warm decoction of 
logwood. 

For yellow, apply a dilute solution 
of picric acid with the alum. 

For green, apply first picric acid 
and afterwards aniline blue. But in 
all of the above the liquor must not 



418 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



exceed the temperature of 70 per 
cent, or it will prevent the dye from 
penetrating the leather. 

Care of Harness. — Wash harness 
frequently with a sponge or cham- 
ois and warm water, but without 
soap, and apply oil before the leather 
is fully dry. The use of varnishes 
should as a rule be omitted, but the 
harness should be frequently wiped 
over with a cloth moistened in a good 
harness oil, as neat's-foot or castor 
oil, or a combination of 1 part castor 
oil with 2 parts neat's-foot oil; or a 
mixture of 1 pint of neat's-foot oil, 
3 ounces of beef tallow, and IJ table- 
spoonfuls of lampblack. To this add 
2 ounces of beeswax for summer use. 

Care of leather Furniture. — To 
restore leather furniture, first wash 
the leather with a sponge and warm 
water to remove the dirt. Or wash 
the leather with a cloth wrung out of 
hot milk, and varnish with the white 
of an egg. 

Or apply a thin coating of cream, 
and rub off with a soft cloth. 

Or rub with a small piece of pre- 
pared wax. 

Or take 6 ounces of eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten together, 1 ounce of 
molasses, 1 ounce of isinglass, and 5 
ounces of water. Dissolve the isinglass 
in the water with gentle heat, mix 
with the. other ingredients, and color 
with lampblack. 

Or beat together the yolks of 2' 
eggs and the white of 1, add 1 table- 
spoonful of alcohol and 1 teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, and thicken with ivory 
black. The two last, of course, apply 
only to black leather. They are suit- 
able for leather belts, leather bags, 
and all black leather objects or arti- 
cles. 

To Remove Grease from Leather. 
— To remove grease and oil stains 
from leather, apply pipe clay pow- 
dered, and mixed with water to a 
thick cream. Let stand two or three 
hours, and repeat if necessary. 

Or apply the white of an egg to the 
stain, and dry in the sun. 

Or make a paste of boiled mealy 
potatoes, vinegar, and turpentine. 



Apply to the stain, let dry, and rub 
off. 

Or sponge with a flannel cloth 
dipped in alcohol. 

To remove mildew, apply vaseline 
with a flannel cloth. 

To remove ink from leather, touch 
the spot with water to see if the ink 
runs. If it does, it is probably nigro- 
sine or eosin or some other coal-tar 
ink. In that case apply a paste of 
baking soda in water; keep it mois- 
tened till the ink is absorbed. If it 
does not run, apply oxalic acid mois- 
tened with water. When the ink is 
absorbed, rinse with aqua ammonia 
and water to neutralize the acid. 

BOOTS AND SHOES 

Care of Boots and Shoes. — The 
great enemy of leather, especially 
patent leather, is heat. Extreme heat 
tends to rob the leather of its vital- 
ity and causes it to break and crack. 
Damp shoes should never be placed 
near a stove to dry, since if heated 
enough to give off the characteristic 
odor of leather they may be singed 
and ruined. Rubber overshoes also 
tend to destroy the strength of leather 
by retaining the animal heat. Hence 
they should not' be worn more than is 
necessary. 

To Dry Shoes. — Place damp shoes 
on their sides in a warm room, in a 
draught of dry air if possible, but 
not near a fire. 

Or heat bran or sand and with this 
fill two old stockings, tying the tops 
tightly. Put the shoes on these as on 
shoe trees. 

Or stuff the wet shoes full of dry 
crumpled newspaper. 

To Restore Softness to leather. — 
Rub boots or shoes, that have become 
hard from being wet, with neat's-foot 
oil or castor oil as warm as the hands 
will bear. Apply with a sponge and 
rub it in with the fingers. 

To Preserve Boots and Shoes. — 
Pour a little boiled linseed oil in a 
tin pan or plate, and let the shoes 
stand in this until the soles are sat- 
urated. This oil dries rapidly and 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



419 



renders the soles tough and hard. But 
do not apply linseed oil to the upper 
leathers. Use neat's-foot oil or castor 
oil for this purpose, to render them 
soft and pliable. Apply to the seams 
a good waterproof varnish by means 
of a feather or pencil brush. Keep 
the upper leathers clean and oil oc- 
casionally before polishing. Go over 
the bottom and edges of the soles 
occasionally with one or two coats of 
hard white copal or other varnish. 
Boots and shoes treated in this way 
will last much longer than usual and 
be practically impervious to moisture. 

To Clean Boots and Shoes. — Pro- 
vide three good brushes, one hard to 
brush off the mud, another soft to 
apply blacking, and a tliird of medi- 
um hardness for polishing. If cov- 
ered with mud, wash off the dirt with 
a damp sponge, dry, and rub with 
neat's-foot oil before polishing. Do 
not scrape off the mud with a knife. 
Use a stiff brush rather than a knife 
to clean mud from the seams. 

Once a week rub leather shoes at 
night with milk. Polish next morning 
as usual. Milk freshens the leather. 
To clean upper leathers, mix 1 ounce 
of oxalic acid with 1 ounce of white 
vitriol, and dilute with IJ pints of 
water. Wash the leather, apply this 
mixture with a sponge, and rinse with 
a sponge wet in a little clear water 
containing a teaspoonful of ammonia 
to neutralize the acid. 

Or wash with clear water. When 
nearly dry, rub with kerosene or a 
mixture of equal parts of kerosene 
and glycerin. 

Care of Boots and Shoes. — Have 
two or more pairs, and wear them al- 
ternately to let the leather dry and 
rest. When not in use, keep them on 
wooden shoe trees. 

Or make homemade shoe trees by 
filling a pair of thick socks or stock- 
ings that fit the feet with fine, clean 
sawdust or bran, and tie the tops 
tightly. These shoe trees will absorb 
the perspiration and keep the shoes 
in perfect shape. The socks can be 
emptied, washed, and refilled when 
necessary. These shoe trees can be 



easily made and are a great aid in 
preserving shoes. On taking the shoes 
off, stretch out the wrinkles and bend 
the soles straight. Keep buttons sewed 
on and set back as far as is comfort- 
able for the foot. If the heels be- 
come worn, have them straightened at 
once. 

Shoe Cleaner. — A large, coarse 
scrubbing brush hanging near the 
kitchen door is a good and cheap 
shoe cleaner in muddy weather, es- 
pecially when children are running in 
and out. 

Or nail or screw a coarse-fibered 
scrubbing brush, bristle side up, to 
the edge of the doorstep. 

Tight Shoes. — If the soles of shoes 
are of the right size, but the uppers 
do not quite fit the foot, put on the 
shoes and sponge the uppers with hot 
water, letting the shoes dry on the 
feet. 

Or lay a folded cloth wet in hot 
water over the spot that pinches. Re- 
peat several times if necessary. 

Or press against the lining with the 
curve of a button hook so as to 
stretch the leather outward. Work 
thus over a circular spot outwardly 
from the point that seems to be tight- 
est. This is often done by salesmen 
in large shoe stores. 

Or, to ease a swollen joint, have a 
shoe repairer cut a slit in the leather 
an inch or two long close to and 
parallel with the sole on the inside 
of the shoe where the swollen joint 
comes. Stretch the shoe, and over the 
opening between the leather and the 
sole fit in a patch of soft leather to 
match the material of the shoe. Stitch 
the patch to the sole, but paste its 
upper edge over the upper leather of 
the shoe to avoid a ridge of stitches. 
Such a patch properly cemented is 
hardly discernible. 

To draw on tight shoes, if a shoe 
horn is not convenient, use two or 
three thicknesses of newspaper or the 
inside of a towel. Warm a tight shoe 
slightly before trying it on. 

To Stop Creaking in Boots and 
Shoes. — The creaking or squeaking 
of boots and shoes is caused by the 



420 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



rubbing against each other, whUe 
walking, of the two or more pieces of 
leather that make the sole. This is 
prevented in the finer grades of shoes 
by careful adjustment of the pieces, 
smoothing their surfaces, and the use 
of lubricants, prepared chalk, and 
the like. 

If shoes squeak, saturate the soles 
with linseed oil, sweet oil, or melted 
lard. Let the shoes stand in one of 
these lubricants over night. 

Or drive a few small pegs across 
the middle of the sole. 

Or, if necessary, have a shoemaker 
take off the soles, and dust some 
powdered soapstone or French chalk 
between them. 

Shoe Strings. — Poimd the tin flats 
on the ends of new shoe strings be- 
fore using them. They will not pull 
off so readily. If they come off, wax 
the end of the lace, and with a nee- 
dleful of weU-waxed thread begin an 
inch back from the end, take a back 
stitch, wind the thread around the 
lace twice, and stitch through the 
lace to the end and back. Beeswax 
stiffens the end, and the stitches keep 
the winding thread from unwinding. 
Wax the laces, especially for chil- 
dren, to prevent them from con- 
stantly getting untied. 

Or wet the finger and place it on 
the knot part of the tie just before 
drawing it up tight. 

Or tie a bow like an ordinary bow- 
knot, but whip one loop in under- 
neath the bow and the first knot. 
Pull it tightly together. 

When a shoe string breaks and a 
new one is not available, sew the 
ends together instead of tying them 
in a knot. 

For Nails in Shoes. — Cut an insole 
of thin pasteboard, as the side of a 
cracker box. The nails will not hurt 
the feet, and the pasteboard lasts a 
long time. 

To Keep on Pumps. — Fasten a 
small piece of elastic two inches long 
across the heel inside. Attach the 
ends only. When the pump is drawn 
on, the elastic stretches tight over the 
ball of the heel and prevents its slip- 



ping off. Fasten other pieces of elas- 
tic on either side of the instep so as 
to be stretched when the pump is on. 
This prevents its gaping at the sides. 

Or sew a piece of chamois to the 
lining inside the heel. 

To Mend House Shoes. — When the 
soles of house shoes and slippers be- 
gin to wear, cut a piece of kid from 
the top of an old shoe and glue it 
over the worn sole. Go over the bot- 
tom and edges with hard white copal 
or other varnish applied warm. 

Care of Kid Boots. — Kid tends to 
harden and crack. Hence it should 
be kept clean and rubbed once a 
week with castor oil. 

Of, to soften kid, melt equal quan- 
tities of tallow and oUve oil. First 
wash the kid with warm water, dry, 
and apply the mixture with a flannel 
cloth. 

To restore the color to black kid, 
mix ink with the white of an egg 
and apply with a soft sponge. 

White Kid. — Dip a clean white 
flannel cloth in a little ammonia and 
rub lightly over a cake of white 
soap. Rub the soiled spots gently, 
changing the cloth as soon as it be- 
came soiled. Or wet a clean white 
flannel cloth in benzine. Rub lightly, 
taking care not to rub the dirt in. 
Hang in the open air to dry. Re- 
member benzine is inflammable. 

To Clean White Canvas Shoes. — 
Place them on boot trees, or stuff 
the shoes full of newspapers rubbed 
between the hands until they are 
quite soft. Next scrub the shoes 
with good hard white soap and a 
little warm water. Then mix pipe 
clay with water to a stiff paste, ap- 
ply with a clean white flannel clotii, 
and let dry. When dry, rub slightly 
with clean white flannel. 

To Polish Tan Shoes. — Wash the 
shoes clean with a sponge and warm 
water. Wipe with a dry cloth and 
let dry. Then rub freely with the 
inside of a banana peel. Wipe care- 
fully with a soft cloth and polish 
^vith cotton flannel. There is consid- 
erable coloring matter and tannic 
acid in banana peel, and this polish 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



421 



is fully as satisfactory as any tan 
dressing on the market. 

Orange juice is also excellent for 
the same purpose. 

Or shave a tablespoonful of white 
soap in a little lukewarm water; add 
a pinch of powdered borax and two 
or three drops of ammonia. Apply 
this with a nailbrush, scrubbing vig- 
orously, rinse with lukewarm water, 
and let dry. 

To darken tan shoes, apply am- 
monia with a clean flannel cloth. 
Then polish as usual. 

OVEBSHOES 

Box for Overshoes. — Take up the 
boards from the back doorstep, cleat 
and hinge them, and make a box un- 
derneath for the family rubbers. 

Or make a shoe pocket to hang on 
the back of the outside door. Take 
a piece of any old waste material the 
width of the door, fold it upon itself 
about two thirds of the width, and 
stitch pockets on the sewing machine 
of a suitable width and number for 
the family overshoes. Turn a head- 
ing at the top, through which run a 
curtain stick, and attach brass rings 
to the top to hang it up by. Line 
the pockets, if desired, with oilcloth 
to facilitate washing. 

Care of Overshoes. — Wash the dirt 
from rubber overshoes with a wet 
sponge. It wUl tend to rot them if 
left to dry on. After the newness 
has worn off, apply an ordinary paste 
polish, the same as for leather. 

To Dry Rubber Boots. — If rubber 
boots become wet on the inside, heat 
oats or coarse sand or newspapers 
crumpled until they are quite soft. 
FiU the boots with any of these. 
Repeat if necessary. 

To Hend Rubbers. — If shoes are 
allowed to run down at the heel, 
overshoes will quickly wear out in 
the heel. To prevent this, replace the 
heels of shoes promptly. 

Or glue a little crumpled paper in 
the heel of the overshoe. If the heel 
wears out when the rest of the over- 
shoe is good, it can be mended by a 



shoe repairer for about five cents a 
heel. Or anyone can mend it by 
means of rubber cement. Cut a 
patch from an old overshoe. Rub 
the patch and the shoe with sand- 
paper to get a clean surface. Apply 
rubber cement thickly to both patch 
and shoe and let the cement dry. Do 
this four or five times. Then apply 
a last coat and put on the patch 
while the cement is still tacky. Let 
dry under a weight. 

WATEBFBOOFIKG LEATHEB 

To Oil Boots. — Sponge with warm 
water, and when nearly, but not 
quite, dry rub with kerosene oil or 
neat's-foot oil or castor oil. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of pure par- 
affin in 1 pint of the best lard oil by 
means of gentle heat. 

Apply any of these with a sponge 
as warm as the hands will bear, and 
rub in with the palm and fingers. 
Let dry and repeat. Use plenty of 
elbow grease. 

To Waterproof leather. — Sub- 
stances • recommended for water- 
proofing leather are various animal 
fats and oils, as beef and mutton tal- 
low, suet, neat's-foot oil, castor oil, 
wax, rosin, pitch, solution of India 
rubber, and various preparations of 
varnish. The animal fats and oils, 
and wax or parafiin, are preferable 
to the vegetable oils, except castor 
oil, rosin, or any form of varnish. A 
solution of India rubber is perhaps 
the best material to apply to the 
seams. 

Linseed and other drying oils, es- 
pecially boUed oils, should not be 
used for upper leather, as they dry 
rapidly and have a tendency to make 
the leather stiff and hard. Most 
forms of varnish have also the same 
tendency. With these thoughts in 
mind, selection may be made from 
the following recipes: 

Melt together with gentle heat 
equal parts of beeswax and mutton tal- 
low. Mix to a soft paste with neat's- 
foot oil or castor oil, and color, if de- 
sired, with ivory black. Apply hot. 



422 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Apply a mixture of equal parts of 
mutton suet and beeswax without 
other ingredients. 

Or mix with gentle heat 4 ounces 
of beef suet, 2 ounces of beeswax, 1 
ounce of rosin, 2 ounces of neat's- 
foot oil, and 1 ounce of lampblack, 
and apply hot. 

Or mix with gentle heat raw lin- 
seed oil, 8 ounces; suet, 4 ounces; 
wax, 3 ounces; rosin, J ounce; tur- 
pentine, 2J ounces, and apply hot. 

Or mix f pound of boiled linseed 
oil, 1 ounce of rosin, 3 ounces of wax, 
and 4 ounces of dryer (litharge, red 
lead, or sugar of lead), and boil un- 
til the mixture becomes stringy. 
Thin with IJ pounds of oil of tur- 
pentine. Apply one or more coats 
with a brush while warm. 

Or melt 1 pound of tallow and J 
pound of rosin, and apply hot with 
a brush all the leather will absorb. 
To polish, dissolve 1 ounce of wax In 
spirits of turpentine and add 1 ounce 
of lampblack. Apply this after the 
tallow and rosin mixture has thor- 
oughly dried, thus producing a wax 
polish on the surface, but remember 
that this process tends to shrink the 
leather. 

Or mix 2 ounces of mutton suet, 
6 ounces of beeswax, 3 ounces of 
soft soap, 2i ounces of lampblack, 
and J ounce of powdered indigo. 
Dissolve with gentle heat, stir well, 
and add J pint of oil of turpentine. 

Melt together with gentle heat 4 
ounces of raw linseed oil, S ounces 
of boiled linseed oil, 4 ounces of 
suet, and 4 ounces of beeswax. Apply 
hot. 

Or melt together with gentle heat 
8 ounces of boiled linseed oil, 2 
ounces of beeswax, 2 ounces of tur- 
pentine, and i ounce of Burgundy 
pitch. Apply hot, while the leather 
is warm and dry, until thoroughly 
saturated. Let dry before wearing. 

Or melt together with gentle heat 
castor oil, S ounces; Burgundy pitch, 
2 drams. When cold, add J ounce of 
spirits of turpentine. 

India-rubber Mixtures. — Dissolve 
with gentle heat in J pint of neat's- 



foot oil as much India rubber from 
an old pair of rubber overshoes or 
rubber boots as the oil will contain. 
Tear out the cloth lining, cut the 
rubber up in shreds with a pair of 
shears, cover with the oil, and let 
stand two or three days on the stove 
until melted. It must not boil or 
burn. When melted, add 12 ounces 
of mutton tallow, 4 ounces of bees- 
wax, and color with lampblack or 
ivory black if desired. Apply this 
mixture when warm to warm leather 
previously washed clean and nearly 
dry. Apply with a sponge and rub 
in with the hands until fully satu- 
rated. This composition thoroughly 
waterproofs leather boots and shoes. 

Or melt together 4 ounces of 
neat's-foot oil, 4 ounces of beeswax, 
and 2 ounces of India rubber until 
thoroughly blended. Apply hot with 
a brush to warna, clean leather. 

Or dissolve in J pint of camphene 
as much India rubber as possible. 
Pour off the clear liquor, and to this 
add Currier's oil, i pint; tallow, 3 
pounds; lampblack, 1 ounce. Mix 
with gentle heat. 

Shellac Varnish. — Put in a glass 
bottle or fruit jar 4 ounces of gum 
shellac. Cover with alcohol and let 
stand until dissolved. Add 1 ounce 
of gum camphor and i ounce of 
lampblack. Shake, and mix thorough- 
ly until dissolved. Thin, if necessary, 
with alcohol, and apply with a brush. 
This covers the leather with a water- 
proof coating having a high polish, 
but is hard, brittle, and tends to 
crack. 

Or mix 1 pint of alcohol, 3 ounces 
of white turpentine, 3 ounces of gum 
shellac, and J ounce of "Venetian tur- 
pentine in a glass fruit jar, and let 
stand in a warm place until dis- 
solved. Add i ounce of sweet oil 
and i ounce of lampblack. This is a 
flexible varnish which will not check 
or crack. 

Or mix 2 quarts of alcohol, J 
ounce of sulphuric acid, and 13 
ounces of gum shellac. Let stand 
until dissolved and add 2 ounces of 
ivory black. Mix and let stand 34 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



423 



hours. Pour oflf the top and apply 
with a brush. 

French Varnish. — Dissolve in 2i 
pints of white wine or best vinegar 
3 ounces of loaf sugar and 4 ounces 
of powdered gum Senegal. Strain 
through cheese cloth and put over a 
slow fire, but do not let it come to 
a boil. Add 1 oimce of powdered 
galls, 3 ounces of green copperas, 
and 4 pint of alcohol. Stir for 6 
minutes. Remove from the fire, and 
when nearly cool strain through 
cheese cloth and bottle. Apply with 
a brush. 

Or melt with gentle heat in a 
double boiler J pint of alcohol, 1 
ounce of gum benzoin, and i ounce 
of gum sandarac or gum anime. 
Strain, and add J gill of poppy oil. 

Or dissolve in 8 ounces of turpen- 
tine 3 ounces of copal varnish and 
J ounce of India rubber. Dissolve 
separately J ounce of beeswax in 8 
ounces of boiled linseed oil. Mix and 
add 14 ounces of litharge. Bring to 
a boil and bottle for use. 

BLACEIKG LEATHEB 

Blacking for leather. — ^The pig- 
ments chiefly used in making shoe 
and harness blackings are lampblack 
and ivory black. Logwood is some- 
times used in liquid blackings, and 
indigo and Prussian blue are some- 
times added in small quantities. 

Lampblack is finely powdered car- 
bon, resulting from the imperfect 
combustion of gases from substances 
containing carbon, as gas tar, wood 
tar, petroleum, and soft resinous 
woods. These substances are burned 
in a fireplace having a long flue, con- 
necting with a series of chambers in 
which lampblack is deposited accord- 
ing to its fineness. The last ohamber 
receives on a cloth screen the finest 
black of all. Hence lampblack varies 
in quality according to its degree of 
fineness. Crude lampblack contains 
some oily, tarry, and resinous mat- 
ters which prevents its mixing freely 
with water. Hence, in preparing 
blacking for leather, it is customary 



to add a small amount of oil of 
vitriol or other acid, which chars and 
destroys these foreign substances, 
leaving the lampblack nearly pure 
carbon. 

Ivory Black, bone black, or animal 
charcoal is produced by burning 
bones in close vessels. Various gases 
are driven off, leaving about one half 
the weight of the original bones in 
solid form. This is crushed and 
sifted, producing bone black, which 
varies in quality according to the de- 
gree of fineness. 

Animal charcoal is a very power- 
ful absorbent of gases and of various 
substances from solutions. Under 
the name "ivory black" it is much 
used as a pigment in the preparation 
of shoe and harness blackings on ac- 
count of its property of absorbing 
other substances, and thus producing 
a smooth and uniform mixture. It is 
somewhat more expensive than lamp- 
black, to which it is usually pre- 
ferred. 

Paste Blacking consists of a mix- 
ture of these pigments with molasses 
or sugar and various animal oils and 
fats qr vegetable oils, more or less 
diluted with water, spirits, or vine- 
gar, and with the addition of sul- 
phuric acid or hydrochloric acid, or a 
mixture of these. The ordinary liq- 
uid blackings known as French pol- 
ishes consist of the same pigments, 
with the addition of small quantities 
of gums or gelatin diluted with wa- 
ter, spirits, vinegar, or turpentine. 
Another class of liquid blackings, 
however, is formed of logwood, with 
the addition of small quantities of 
indigo or Prussian blue. 

Paste Blacking:. — Mix with gentle 
heat I pound of ivory black, 8 ounces 
of molasses, and 3 ounces of sweet 
oil. Dissolve separately 2 ounces of 
hydrochloric acid in 4 ounces of wa- 
ter, and 4 ounces of sulphuric acid in 
8 ounces of water. Mix the solutions, 
and add the mixture in a thin stream 
to the other ingredients, stirring vig- 
orously. This is the ordinary Ger- 
man paste blacking of commerce. 

Mix 4 ounces of ivory black with 



424 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



1 tablespoonful of alcohol. Stir in 
1 fluid ounce of sweet oil and J pint 
of molasses. Add 1 ounce of hydro- 
chloric acid and 1 ounce of sulphuric 
acid. 

Or, to make large quantities for 
sale, mix SO pounds of ivory black, 
13 pounds of molasses, and 1 gallon 
of rape oil. Dilute lOJ pounds of 
oil of vitriol veith 1 gallon of water, 
add this solution to the other sub- 
stances in a thin stream, mixing thor- 
oughly with a wooden shovel, and 
when stirred cover tightly, and let 
stand Si hours. 

Or mix 4 ounces of ivory black, 3 
ounces of brown sugar, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of sweet oU, and 1 pint of beer. 

Or mix 3 ounces of ivory black, 2 
ounces of molasses, 1 ounce of sul- 
phuric acid, 1 ounce of gimi arable 
dissolved in water, 1 tablespoonful of 
sweet oU, and J pint of vinegar. 

Or mix 2 ounces of sulphuric acid 
with 4 ounces of tannin oil. Let 
stand 48 hours. Add S ounces of 
molasses and 1 pound of ivory black. 
This is a. celebrated commercial ar- 
ticle. 

Or mix 8 ounces of ivory black 
and 8 oimces of molasses. Add i 
ounce of powdered alum, 1 dram of 
turpentine, 1 ounce of sulphuric acid, 
and 2 ounces of raw linseed oil. 

Liquid Blacking. — Mix 4 ounces 
of ivory black with 1 tablespoonful 
of Eilcohol. Add 1 fluid ounce of 
sweet oil and J pint of molasses; 
mix, and add 1 ounce of hydrochloric 
acid and 1 ounce of sulphuric acid. 
Stir in 3 pints of vinegar. 

Or mix 3 ounces of ivory black, 1 
quart of molasses, and 1 pint of 
sweet oil. Add 12 ounces of sulphuric 
acid. Stir in 8 ounces of coarse brown 
sugar. Thin with stale beer. 

Or 4 ounces of molasses, J ounce 
of lampblack, 1 teaspoonful of yeast, 
and 1 teaspoonful of oil of turpen- 
tine. Apply with a sponge. 

Or 1 pound of ivory black, 4 
ounces of brown sugar, and the 
whites of 6 eggs. Mix, dilute with 
beer, and simmer with gentle heat, 
\)Xit without boiling, for 10 minutes. 



Dissolve in 2 quarts of water 1 
ounce of best logwood extract. Bring 
the solution with gentle heat nearly 
to the boiling point, but do not boil. 
Add 1 dram of bichloride of potash 
and 1 dram of yellow prussiate of 
potash. Stir until the mixture turns 
to a deep blue. Stir in IJ ounces of 
powdered borax until dissolved. Add 
1 ounce of aqua ammonia and 8 
ounces of shellac, and stir until all 
are dissolved. Bottle for use. 

Or mix 1 pint of best vinegar with 
J pint of soft water. Add 2 ounces 
of pulverized blue, 4 ounces of log- 
wood chips, 2 ounces of powdered in- 
digo, 2 ounces of castUe-soap jelly, 
and J ounce of isinglass. Boil 15 
minutes and strain through cheese 
cloth. Cork tightly. 

Or mix equal quantities of glycerin 
and black ink. Apply with a brush 
or swab. 

Or dissolve 4 ounces of shellac in 
3 pints of alcohol. Add 1 ounce of 
gum camphor, and when dissolved 
stir in 1 ounce of lampblack. Apply 
with a brush. 

Care of Patent leather. — Clean 
patent-leather shoes with a sponge 
and warm water. Warm the leather 
with genUe heat, but take care not to 
get it too hot, and apply sweet oil or 
olive oil with or without an equal 
quantity of turpentine. Apply the 
oil with a sponge or cloth, and rub 
with the palm of the hands while the 
leather is warm. Apply ordinary 
blacking to the edges of the sole, or 
liquid varnish blacking with a sponge 
or brush, but do not apply paste or 
liquid blackings to patent leather. 

Or mix in 1 quart of water 4 
ounces of molasses, J oimce of lamp- 
black, J ounce of sweet oil, i ounce 
of gum arable, and J ounce of 
isinglass. Stir together with gentle 
heat. Cool and add 1 oimce of al- 
cohol and, if convenient, the gall of 
an ox. 

Or, to replace the enamel when it 
becomes cracked or chipped, mix 2 
oimces of Prussian blue, 1 ounce of 
ivory black, and 1 quart of linseed 
oil. Melt with gentle heat, grinding 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



426 



the pigments carefully in the oil. 
Apply two coats with a brush. Then 
add to the mixture 2 ounces of amber 
or copal varnish, and apply this as 
a last resort. When dry polish with 
a moist cloth dipped in powdered 
pumice. 

To Clean Harness. — Never apply 
oil or blacking to leather which is 
dry or dirty. First wash the leather 
free from dirt or grease with soap 
and water. Then apply the oil, and 
finally blacken and polish. Prepare 
a tub full of soapsuds, hot but not 
boiling; take the harness to pieces, 
put these in the hot suds, and let 
them soak over night. Then remove 
the pieces, scrape them clean with a 
stiff brush, and rub dry with a 
coarse cloth. 

Apply with a brush a black dye 
made by dissolving with gentle heat 
1 ounce of extract of logwood and 
12 grains of bichromate of potash in 
3 quarts of water. Bottle and cork 
for use. 

Let the harness stand under shade 
in a draught for three or four hours, 
and apply warm neat's-foot oil with 
a brush. Follow with a second coat 
of one third castor oil and two 
thirds neat's-foot oU mixed, and wipe 
dry with a woolen cloth. 

Or mix neat's-foot oil with a small 
quantity of ivory black, but do not 
use lampblack, as it will rub oflf. A 
second oiling should usually be given. 
Treating a harness in this way three 
or four times a year will more than 
double its wear. 

Or add to each quart of neat's-foot 
oil 1 ounce of beeswax. Simmer 
with gentle heat untU dissolved, and 
add J pound of oil of tar. Stir un- 
til dissolved, and apply to clean, 
warm, slightly moist leather surfaces. 

To make this waterproof, add 1 
dram of India rubber dissolved in 1 
ounce of naphtha; or mix with gentle 
heat 3 ounces of beeswax and 1 pint 
of neat's-foot oil. Dissolve 1 ounce 
of gum arable in 1 gill of hot water. 
Shave fine 1 pound of castile soap, 
and dissolve in 1 gill of hot water. 
Mix all together and simmer with 



gentle heat to the right consistency. 
Apply to clean, warm, and slightly 
moist leather. 

Or dissolve with gentle heat 3 
ounces of white wax and 3 ounces of 
turpentine. Stir in 1 ounce of ivory 
black and 1 dram of indigo. Apply 
while warm a very thin coat with a 
brush, and polish with a, soft brush 
or cloth. Apply to harness which 
has previously been washed and oiled. 

Or dissolve with gentle heat in a 
double boiler IJ pounds of stearin in 
2i pounds of turpentine. Stir con- 
stantly while heating. When dis- 
solved, stir in 1 ounce of ivory black; 
remove from the fire, and stir con- 
stantly until cold, otherwise it wUl 
crystallize and the ingredients will 
separate. Apply warm with a cloth 
a very thin coat and partially dry. 
Polish with silk or chamois. This 
gives a very high gloss and does not 
injure the leather. 

Or cut fresh lard with kerosene oU, 
and add ivory black to color. Apply 
warm with a brush. This is cheap, 
handy, and generally useful. 

Or melt 2 ounces of black rosin, 
and add 3 ounces of beeswax. Re- 
move from the fire, and add J ounce 
of ivory black and J dram of Prus- 
sian blue. Rub up smoothly to- 
gether and thin to soft paste with 
turpentine. Apply with a cloth and 
polish with a brush. 

Or melt 3 ounces of mutton suet 
and .6 ounces of beeswax. Add 6 
ounces of brown sugar, 3 ounces of 
castile-soap jelly, and 1 ounce of in- 
digo. Melt with gentle heat, mix, and 
stir in 1 gill of turpentine. Apply 
with a sponge or cloth and polish 
with a brush. 

Black Varnish Jet or Polish for 
leather. — Dissolve with gentle heat 
3 sticks of any color of sealing wax 
desired in 1 pint of 95 per cent alco- 
hol, and apply warm with a sponge 
or brush. For carriage bodies, dash- 
boards, and the like, apply first, to 
save extra coats, a dye of copperas 
water or logwood, and afterwards lay 
on the varnish. 

Or to 1 gallon of alcohol add 1 



426 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ounce of sulphuric acid. Stir in I4 
pounds of gum shellac. Let stand 
2 or 3 days or until dissolved, and 
add i ounces of ivory black. Let 
stand 34 hours and pour off the thin 
liquid from the top. This recipe is 
waterproof and is a suitable polish 
for all leather. It is a commercial 
article which sells on the market at 
about 25 cents an ounce. 

Black Balls for Leather. — Melt to- 
gether 2 ounces of lard, 8 ounces of 
neat's-foot oil, 2 ounces of wax, and 
8 ounces of brown sugar in 8 ounces 
of water. Bring the whole to a boil, 
and stir in 10 ounces of ivory black. 
Remove from the fire and stir con- 
stantly until it cools, then roll into 
balls two inches in diameter. 

Or melt 4 ounces of tallow and 2 
pounds of beeswax, and add 4 ounces 
of lampblack mixed with 4 ounces 
of gum arable. Stir together and 
roll into balls. 

Melt together beeswax, 8 ounces; 
ivory black, 2 ounces; turpentine, 1 
ounce; Prussian blue ground in oil, 1 
ounce, and copal varnish, i ounce. 
Make into balls. 

■WHITING INK 

Ink. — Inks are of several classes, as 
writing inks, marking or indelible 
inks, and printing inks. Writing inks 
may be black or colored. Black writ- 
ing inks are chiefly nutgall iron inks, 
made from a solution of Aleppo nut- 
galls with copperas; chrome logwood 
inks, made by the addition of 1 part of 
potassium chromate to 1,000 parts of 
saturated solution of logwood; aniline 
inks, made of coal-tar products, as 
nigrosine, eosin, etc., and carbon inks, 
made of a resinous alkaline solution 
mixed with lampblack. Marking inks 
are chiefly lampblack, or nitrate of 
silver. Colored inks are now made 
chiefly of aniline coal-tar products. 
It is important to understand the na- 
ture of these different materials in 
order to choose the various kinds of 
ink required; to make them properly, 
if desirable, either for home use or 
for sale; to keep them properly, and 



to erase them when they produce any 
accidental stains. These points are 
the more important for the reason 
that since the use of coal-tar colors 
or aniline dyes, especially nigrosine, 
dating from about 1867, old-fashioned 
recipes for taking out ink stains have 
become untrustworthy. Unfortunate- 
ly, a great many of these recipes 
taken from old books are still being 
published. Hence care must be 
taken not to be misled by instruc- 
tions which were correct when they 
were first given, but can no longer be 
relied on. 

To Make Black Ink. — Formerly 
black ink was usually made by ex- 
posing to the air a solution of green 
vitriol in an infusion of gallnuts in 
water containing dissolved gum, sug- 
ar, or mucUage. The result was a 
fine precipitate of tannate of iron 
held in suspension by the gum. Writ- 
ing done with these inks was of a pale- 
brown color, which, however, turned 
black on the paper. They are still in 
use, and recipes for making them will 
be given; but they are open to the 
objections that tiiey corrode steel 
pens, tend to settle on standing, and 
the writing fades to a yellow or brown 
tint with age. Many old letters dat- 
ing from war times are in existence 
the writing of which is almost faded 
from the paper. 

Modern inks of this sort are im- 
proved by the addition of a little 
free sulphuric acid, which prevents 
the tannate of iron from forming a 
precipitate or powder. Hence they 
are true solutions. The addition of 
a little indigo, carmine, or aniline blue 
is also an improvement. This is one 
of the reasons why modern inks can- 
not be removed by old-fashioned rec- 
ipes, the acids which take out the 
stain of tannate of iron having no ef- 
fect on the modern coal-tar colors. 

Inks of this class are made com- 
mercially from Aleppo nutgalls and 
copperas, or from green vitriol. The 
nutgalls contain 60 to 70 per cent 
tannic acid and 3 to S per cent gallic 
acid. The galls are crushed, steeped 
in hot, not boiling, water, and strained. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



427 



The infusion is mixed with a solution 
of copperas containing free sulphuric 
acid. Indigo and aniline blues are 
added, and also a solution of gum 
arable, the last ingredient enabling 
the writer to make light strokes with 
the pen and to prevent the ink from 
spreading too quickly. An antiseptic, 
usually carbolic or salicylic acid, is 
added to prevent mold. 

Some experiments will be required 
to make a good ink of this class, as 
the amount of tannin contained in 
nutgalls varies, and the amount ex- 
tracted by inexperienced persons va- 
ries still more. Recipes will be given 
for the use of nutgalls, but for home- 
made inks it will be found more con- 
venient, when possible, to buy tannic 
and gallic acids ready made than to 
extract them from nutgalls. We rec- 
ommend for a good homemade ink 
the following: 

Five ounces of tannin, 4 ounces of 
copperas, J ounce of indigo, carmine, 
or aniline blue, and 10 drops of sul- 
phuric acid. 

Or 5 ounces of gallic acid, 7J oimces 
of copperas, J ounce of indigo, car- 
mine, or aniline blue, and 13 drops of 
sulphuric acid. The latter formula 
gives a finer quality of ink than the 
former, but it does not turn black so 
quickly. Hence a still better formula 
is a mixture of the two. 

Or S ounces of tannin, 5 ounces of 
gallic acid, llj ounces of copperas, 
1 ounce of indigo, carmine, or aniline 
blue, and 20 drops of sulphuric acid; 
or, for smaller quantities, the same 
proportions by weight. This mixture 
will be found an excellent ink for 
schools, ofSces, and domestic pur- 
poses. 

The following recipes will suggest 
interesting experiments in ink mak- 
ing; pulverized Aleppo galls, 3 
pounds; gum arable, 1 pound. Put 
these in an earthen jar and add 1 
gallon of boiling water. Let stand 
in a warm place for 3 weeks, stir- 
ring frequently. Add 1 pound of 
green copperas dissolved in 14 pints 
of water. Mix and let stand 2 or 
3 weeks, stirring daily. The addition 



of i ounces of aniline blue and 3 
ounces of sulphuric acid will improve 
this mixture. 

Or mix 2 ounces of crushed gall- 
nuts, 1 ounce of gum arable, and 1 
ounce of copperas with 16 ounces of 
soft water. Add 5 grains of corro- 
sive sublimate to prevent mold. Let 
stand for 2 weeks, shaking frequently, 
before using. 

A solution of logwood is often add- 
ed to the nutgall inks to give a strong- 
er black. Cover | poimd of Aleppo 
bruised galls with 1 gallon of soft 
water; let stand 3 weeks, stirring 
daily. Add 4 ounces of green cop- 
peras dissolved in 1 pint of water, 4 
ounces of logwood chips, 6 ounces of 
gum arable, and 2 ounces of alcohol. 
Stir, and let stand a week or 10 days 
before using. 

Mix 4 ounces of bruised Aleppo 
galls, 2 ounces of thin logwood chips, 
and 3 quarts of soft water; boil down 
to 3 pints. Add 2 ounces of green 
copperas, IJ ounces of powdered gum 
arable, J ounce of blue vitriol, and 
J ounce of brown sugar. Stir until 
dissolved, let stand 24 hours, strain, 
and bottle for use. 

Or mix 1 ounce of powdered cop- 
peras, 1 ounce of fine logwood chips, 
3 ounces of crushed Aleppo galls, 1 
ounce of gum arable, and fij pomids 
of white wine or best vinegar. 

Or boU 4 ounces of logwood chips 
in 6 quarts of water down to 3 quarts. 
Strain, and add 2 quarts of cold 
water. Add to this solution 1 pound 
of bruised Aleppo galls, 4 ounces of 
sulphate of iron, and J ounce of ace- 
tate of copper. Rub to a smooth 
paste with a little of the logwood 
liquor. Add also 3 ounces of coarse 
sugar and 6 ounces of gum arable. 

Chrome logwood Inks. — ^These inks 
are prepared by the addition of 1 
part of potassium chromate to 1,000 
parts of saturated solution of log- 
wood. Or boil the solution of log- 
wood with chloride or acetate of 
chromium. Inks of this class have no 
sediment, do not corrode steel pens, 
and do not turn moldy. Writing 
done with them may be soaked in 



428 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



water without the ink running or 
washing oflF. They also have the ad- 
vantage over iron-gall inks that they 
will not fade. 

To make chrome logwood ink on a 
large scale, boil 22 pounds of logwood 
in 38 gallons of water down to 14 
gallons; when cold, to 1,000 parts of 
this infusion add gradually 1 part of 
yellow chromate of potash, stirring 
constantly. 

Or, for a small quantity, boU IJ 
oimces of thin logwood chips in 3 
pints of water down to 1 pint, and 
when cold add 17 grains of yellow 
chromate of potash, stirring thor- 
oughly. Do not add gum or acid. To 
prevent mold, add a few drops of bi- 
chloride of mercury. 

Copying Inks. — Copying inks are 
of the same composition as ordinary 
writing inks, but thicker. Gum, sugar, 
and other sticky ingredients are used 
in copying inks to keep them from 
soaking into the paper before it is 
brought in contact with the moist 
tissue paper of the copying press. The 
largest number of copies from one 
writing is obtained by means of a 
strong decoction of logwood extract 
with alum or chloride of aluminum, 
and by the use of sheets of tissue 
copying paper previously soaked in 
chromate of potash. A small amount 
of the logwood solution unites with 
the chromate salt in the tissue paper 
to form a black compound. 

Or put 1 pound of powdered Alep- 
po galls in an earthen jar and cover 
with 3 gallons of rain water. Let 
stand 10 days. Add 4 ounces of 
clean copperas, 4 ounces of brown 
sugar, and 4 ounces of gum arable 
dissolved with gentle heat in a little 
water. Put the whole in an iron ket- 
tle and boil down to 1 gallon. 

Or put 2 ounces of logwood ex- 
tract, 4 ounces of sal soda, and 18 
ounces of soft water in an earthen 
vessel, and set it in the oven until the 
solution becomes a deep red and the 
ingredients are all dissolved. Remove 
from the oven, and stir in 2 ounces 
of glycerin, 30 grains of yellow 
chromate of potash dissolved in a lit- 



tle water, and J ounce of gum arable 
dissolved in water. Strain through 
cheese cloth and boil down to one half 
with gentle heat. 

Or add 1 teaspoonful of brown 
sugar to 1 pint of ordinary writing 
ink. To take a single copy from any 
of the above without a copying press, 
first let the ink dry, then moisten a 
sheet of tissue paper or unsized writ- 
ing paper with water, but do not have 
it too wet. Lay it over the writing, 
and go over it with a warm flatiron, 

IIABEING INKS 

Harking Inks. — On account of the 
resistance it offers to acids and other 
chemicals, carbon, in the form of 
lampblack, is often used as the basis 
of marking inks. But carbon cannot 
be dissolved. Hence it must be held 
in suspension in some gummy or res- 
inous liquid, and is not suitable for 
use with ordinary steel pens. Carbon 
marking inks are usually applied by 
means of a brush or a marking pen 
having a special point for this pur- 
pose. To make a carbon marking ink, 
boil 2 ounces of shellac and 2 ounces 
of baking soda in 1 quart of soft 
water until the shellac is dissolved. 
Stir in fine lampblack to the proper 
consistency, and thin with water as 
desired. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of borax and 2 
ounces of shellac in 1 quart of water 
with gentle heat. Add 1 ounce of 
mucilage, and stir in equal quantities 
of indigo and lampblack to the right 
color and consistency. 

Or dissolve with gentle heat 25 
grains of powdered copal in 31 ovmces 
of oU of lavender. Add 2J grains of 
lampblack and i grain of indigo. 
Used for marking glass bottles and 
other vessels containing chemical sub- 
stances of a corrosive nature. 

India Ink. — India or China ink is 
finely divided carbon mixed with a 
solution of gum arable or glue, dried 
in wooden molds, and coated with 
animal wax. It is applied with a wet 
brush or by diluting a small quantity 
in water. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



429 



To test India ink, draw a number 
of lines of different thicknesses on a 
piece of drawing paper. When bone 
dry, apply water with a sponge. If 
the ink runs, it is of poor quality. 

To make a substitute for India ink, 
boil an old kid glove in water until it 
forms a thick size, which when cool 
is of a jellylike consistency. Hold a 
cold plate in the flame, of a candle, 
and while it is still warm mix the 
lampblack which adheres to the plate 
with the size thus obtained. This mix- 
ture has all the qualities of a iirst- 
class India ink. This is a good dye 
with which to renovate black gloves 
that have become defaced. 

Indelible Ink. — The old-fashioned 
nitrate-of-silver ink is stiU commonly 
used for marking linen and for simi- 
lar purposes. To make an indelible 
ink, dissolve 1 ounce of nitrate of sil- 
ver in 3J ounces of liquid ammonia. 
Dissolve separately with gentle heat 
IJ ounces of gum arabic and IJ 
ounces of carbonate of soda crystals. 
Mix the two solutions and let stand 
in a warm place. Add a few drops 
of solution of magenta. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of nitrate of 
silver in 4 ounces of distilled water. 
Add strong liquid ammonia to dis- 
solve the resulting sediment. Stir in 
i ounce of gum arabic and J ounce 
of sap green or powdered indigo. 

The most convenient way to apply 
indelible inks to linen is to have a 
brass stencil cut with the family name 
or monogram. Lay this over the linen 
and with a soft brush apply the ink 
through the cut-out spaces. A little 
practice on a piece of old linen will 
enable anyone to do this work quickly 
and well. The above inks are ready 
to be applied., 

Or another way of using marking 
inks is to first dip the linen in a solu- 
tion called the mordant, and after- 
wards apply the ink, which then forms 
a chemical compound with the fibers 
of the fabric. To do this, first mois- 
ten the linen with a mordant com- 
posed of 2 ounces of baking soda and 
1 ounce of gum arabic dissolved with 
gentle heat in 8 ounces of water. Dry 



with a warm flatiron, and apply an 
ink composed of 1 ounce of nitrate 
of silver, 14 ounces of distilled water, 
and 1 ounce of sap green. This must 
be applied with a quill pen, a gold 
pen, or a brush, as a steel pen will de- 
compose the ink. 

Black Stencil Ink. — Rub to a 
smooth paste 4 ounces of lampblack 
and 8 ounces of Prussian blue with a 
little glycerin. Add 6 ounces of gum 
arabic dissolved with gentle heat in a 
small amount of water, and thin with 
glycerin to the right consistency. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of aniline blue 
in 1 pint of water, and apply with a 
sponge. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of asphaltum 
in 4 ounces of turpentine, stir in 
lampblack to color, and thin with 
turpentine as required. 

COLOBED INKS 

Colored Writing Inks. — Inks may 
be made of almost any color by the 
use of suitable dyestuffs. The vari- 
ety and beauty of colored inks have 
been greatly increased by the discov- 
ery of the coal-tar products, known 
as aniline dyes. These are now in 
common use under various trade 
names. 

Red Ink. — Red ink may be made 
out of cochineal or Brazil wood, or 
the coal-tar colors known as puchsin, 
magenta, or eosin. These are readily 
soluble in water, but should have a 
few drops of corrosive sublimate or 
other antiseptic added to prevent 
mold. Eosin inks copy freely, but 
fade if exposed to sunlight. 

To make red ink, bring 1 gallon of 
the best vinegar to a. boil with gentle 
heat, add 1 pound of Brazil wood, 
and simmer for half an hour. Stir in 
I pound of powdered alum and strain 
through cheese cloth. Add J gill of 
fresh gall to each quart of the ink. 
Cork tightly in glass bottles. 

Or boil for 1 hour 4 ounces of 
ground Brazil wood in 1 pint of di- 
luted acetic acid (1 part pure acid to 
10 parts water). Add J ounce of 
alum, strain, and add 1 ounce of 



430 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEIIIES 



gum arable dissolved in a little hot 
water. Use copper or enamel ware for 
the above. 

Or dissolve 10 grains of the best 
carmine lake in the least possible 
quantity of ammonia. Let stand 
24 hours and dilute with 2i fluid 
ounces of distilled water. 

Or boil 3 ounces of powdered 
cochineal and 2 ounces of cream of 
tartar with 8 ounces of water imtil 
dissolved. Strain, and add 1 ounce 
or a little more of carbonate of potas- 
sium. Stir in 1 ounce of alum and 1 
ounce of gum arable dissolved in a 
little boiling water. Additional car- 
bonate of potassium will darken the 
color of the ink. 

Blue Ink. — Take 3 ounces of Prus- 
sian blue crystals and cover with hy- 
drochloric acid. Stir or shake the 
mixture thoroughly, pour off the acid 
through a suitable strainer, and pour 
on water to rinse the blue completely 
free of the acid. Dry the crystals, 
mix with an equal quantity of oxalic 
acid in iine powder, and thin with dis- 
tilled water to the color desired. 

Or dissolve indigo carmine in 
water. 

Or mix 2 ounces of ferrocyanide of 
iron and 2 ounces of strong hydro- 
chloric acid. Dissolve and dilute with 
soft water. 

Or mix 1 ounce of powdered Prus- 
sian blue with IJ fluid ounces of 
muriatic acid. Dilute with water. 

Violet Ink. — Dissolve with gentle 
heat 1 ounce of methyl-violet aniline 
in 1 gill of alcohol. Stir until thor- 
oughly dissolved. Then add 1 gallon 
of boiling water. This is a vivid, 
beautiful violet, which flows smoothly 
and dries quickly, but will fade if ex- 
posed to sunlight. It is the common 
violet ink of commerce. 

Green Ink. — Dissolve 1 ounce of 
iodine-green aniline in 1 gill of hot 
alcohol, and dilute with 2 quarts of 
soft water. This is a vivid and beau- 
tiful color which will yield several 
copies, and is very little faded by sun- 
light. 

Or dissolve 2 ounces of verdigris 
and 1 ounce of cream of tartar in 8 



ounces of soft water, and boll imtil 
the right shade is reached. 

Or mix 1 ounce of crystallized ace- 
tate of copper with 1 pint of soft 
water. 

Or rub together 3J drams of solu- 
ble Prussian blue and 3 drams of 
gamboge with 2 ounces of mucilage, 
and dilute with J pint of soft water. 

Yellow Ink. — Dissolve yellow or 
orange aniline colors in boiling water. 

Or boil 1 pound of French berries 
with 2 ounces of alum in 1 gallon of 
water imtil the color is sufficiently 
strong. Strain, and add 4 ounces of 
gum arable. 

Show-card Inks. — Any of the above 
colored inks, may be used for show 
cards if desired, or dissolve IJ ounces 
of gum arabic in 8 ounces of water, 
and while hot strain through cheese 
cloth. Mix with this ordinary paint- 
ers' colors, either dry or ground in 
oils, and apply with a brush. To 
make a show card permanent, brush 
it over with a thin glue size, lay on 
the ink with a brush, and finish with 
a hard, white varnish. 

To mix various colors of ink for 
different tints, see under " Paints and 
Paftiting." 

Gold, Silver, and Bronze Inks are 
prepared by grinding thin sheets of 
the metal on a glass plate with a lit- 
tle honey to reduce them to a fine 
powder. This powder is then laid 
on filter paper, washed with hot water 
to remove the honey, and dissolved in 
a solution of gum arabic for use. 

The writing may be done with a, 
nearly colorless glue size, and the 
fine bronze, gold, or silver powder 
may be dusted over it while the size 
is still wet. 

SFECIAI, INKS 

Sympathetic Inks. — These inks are 
invisible until brought out by the ef- 
fect of heat or some chemical. For 
an invisible ink, write with fresh milk, 
which will not show until the paper 
is gently heated. 

Or write with a solution of sugar 
in water. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



431 



Or write with a mixture of 1 part 
of sulphuric acid and 30 parts of 
water, using a quill or gold pen. The 
acid will corrode an iron or steel pen. 
This is invisible until the paper is 
made warm enough to evaporate the 
water, when the acid will char the 
paper in black characters. 

Or write with a solution of acetate 
of lead, and afterwards expose the 
writing to the fumes of a brimstone 
match. 

Or write with a weak solution of 
nutgalls, and apply a solution of iron 
to the paper. 

Or write with a solution of nitrate 
of silver, and apply a solution of com- 
mon salt. These methods have often 
been used to conceal subjects of cor- 
respondence by writing letters with 
ordinary inks, and between the lines 
writing with invisible ink another mes- 
sage. The secret of the combination 
must, of course, be known to the per- 
son for whom the writing is intended. 

Xuminous Ink. — Dissolve 1 dram 
of phosphorus, in 1 ounce of oil of 
cinnamon. Cork tightly, and put the 
bottle . in hot water until dissolved. 
Letters written with this solution will 
be visible in the dark. 

Hectograph. Ink. — Mix 1 ounce of 
iodine-green or methyl-violet aniline 
colors with 1 ounce of glycerin, and 
dissolve the mixture in 10 ounces of 
distilled water. This is used in print- 
ing from a gelatin pad, usually called 
a hectograph. To make such a pad, 
cover 1 ounce of gelatin with cold 
water, and let stand over night. Put 
in a new tin dripping pan or other 
tin dish having low sides and square 
corners 12i ounces of gelatin, and 
heat slowly, but do not let it boil. Stir 
in the soaked gelatin and let the mix- 
ture stand over a slow fire until the 
water is all evaporated. This will 
produce a solid pad of clear gelatin. 
Cover from dust and let stand over 
night. To use this pad, write with 
the above ink, let the ink dry, and 
moisten the pad slightly with water 
by means of a brush. When the pad 
is nearly dry, lay the writing, face 
down, on the pad, rubbing it down 



gently with a soft cloth. Let it stand 
a minute or more according to the 
nimiber of copies required, remove 
the paper, and the pad is ready to 
print from. Use for this purpose soft 
unsized paper. Lay the paper on the 
pad, smoothing it with a cloth or 
roller, and remove immediately. Con- 
tinue to take copies until the ink is 
exhausted. Then wash the pad with 
cold water and a sponge to remove 
the surplus ink. When dry, it is ready 
to be used again as before. 

Kubber-stamp Ink. — Inking pads 
for rubber stamps may be re-inked 
by means of aniline dyes of suitable 
color mixed to the consistency of 
thin cream with glycerin. 

Metal-label Ink. — ^Dissolve 1 ounce 
of copper in 10 ounces of nitric 
acid, and thin with 10 ounces of 
water. 

Or mix 2 ounces of powdered sul- 
phate of copper, 1 ounce of powdered 
sal ammoniac, and 4 ounces of acetic 
acid. Stir in lampblack or other 
pigment of any color desired. 

Or dissolve equal quantities of ver- 
digris and sal ammoniac in water, and 
add lampblack or other pigment to 
color. Mix the ingredients in earth- 
enware with wooden paddles, as they 
will corrode metals. They are suit- 
able for writing on steel, tin plate, or 
sheet zinc. 

Mix 1 ounce of muriatic acid and 
i ounce of nitric acid. Cover the 
metal surface with beeswax, and when 
cold, write on it with any sharp-point- 
ed instrument that will cut through 
to tlA wax. Apply the mixture with 
a small brush or feather, and let it lie 
for a few minutes according to the 
depth of etching desired. Then rinse 
off the wax and acid in hot water. 
Either of the acids alone will cut iron 
or steel, but the mixture is required 
for gold or silver. After rinsing off 
the acids, apply a little sweet oil or 
olive oil. The smoothness of the etch- 
ing will depend upon the cleanness 
with which the wax is cut and re- 
moved from the metal in each let- 
ter. Hence a sharp-edged tool is the 
best. 



432 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



CABE OF INK 

To Prevent Mold in Ink. — The ad- 
dition of a little alcohol or a few 
drops of any essential oil or a. few 
cloves will prevent mold. 

Or add a few drops of salicylic acid 
or corrosive sublimate or carbolic 
acid, but do not add metallic acids to 
inks containing aniline dyes. 

To Prevent Ink from Thickening. 
— As inks thicken by the evaporation 
of the liquids with which they are 
diluted, the only way to protect them 
is to keep them covered from the air. 
Hence the use of inkstands with ta- 
pering funnels of glass or hard rub- 
ber is advisable. If the ink becomes 
too thick to write smoothly, or if, 
when a bottle has been exhausted, a 
residue of black sediment is left, it 
may be diluted with clear water or a 
small quantity of strong black coffee 
strained through silk or linen. 

To Keep Ink from Freezing. — The 
addition of a small quantity of alco- 
hol acts as a preventive. 

To Restore Faded Ink. — Writing 
which has become partially illegible 
on account of age may be restored by 
applying carefully to the paper an in- 
fusion of galls, or a solution of prus- 
siate of potash slightly acidulated 
with dilute sulphuric or muriatic acid. 
These substances have the property 
of turning iron-gaU inks black. 

To Remove Oiliness from Ink. — If 
the action of the air causes ink to 
become oily, ropy, or stringy, add a 
little oxgall or vinegar. 

Printer's Ink is a carbon ink mixed 
with oils or resins. The carbon is 
usually lampblack or ivory black mixed 
with a little indigo or Prussian blue. 
The oU is usually boiled linseed oil or 
nut oil. Other ingredients are rosin, 
turpentine, balsam of copaiba, and 
yellow soap. Great care is required to 
produce the finest grades of ink, and 
printer's inks vary greatly in qual- 
ity and price. The methods of prep- 
aration are trade secrets, and printers 
rarely attempt to make the better 
grades of ink for themselves. 

Colored printing inks are made by 



using various colored pigments in 
place of carbon. 

Bronze and other metallic effects 
are produced by printing with a near- 
ly colorless glue size, and sprinkling 
the metallic powder on the surface 
while it is sticky. 

Printing Ink. — Grind in a paint 
mill or with a marble mortar and 
pestle 9 ounces of balsam of copaiba, 
4 ounces of finest lampblack, 1 ounce 
of powdered indigo, and 3 ounces of 
hard, dry yellow soap. Heat a quan- 
tity of linseed oil in an iron kettle 
until it begins to boil. Remove from 
the fire and kindle the escaping vapor. 
Allow it to burn mitil the oil becomes 
stringy when lifted with a stirrer. 
Then add to each quart of oil 1 pound 
of pulverized black rosin. Dissolve 
with gentle heat and stir in 4J ounces 
of dry yellow-soap shavings to each 
quart. Melt these together with gen- 
tle heat. Measure for every pound 
of rosin employed 1 ounce of indigo, 
1 ounce of Prussian blue, and 18 
ounces of lampblack. Pour the melt- 
ed mixture over these pigments, mix, 
and grind in a paint mill. 

Dryers for Printer's Ink. — One 
ounce of beeswax, i ounce of gum 
arable dissolved to a thin mucilage 
with acetic acid, J ounce of japan, 
and J ounce of asphaltum varnish. 
Add the above to 1 pound of printer's 
ink. 

lithographic Ink. — Melt together 
with gentle heat 3 ounces of shellac, 
4 ounces of castile soap, 2 ounces of 
white wax, and 2 ounces of tallow. 
Add 3 tablespoonfuls of gum san- 
darac dissolved in 3 tablespoonfuls of 
alcohol, and stir in ivory black or the 
best lampblack to color. 

To Remove Ink Stains. — The arti- 
cle to use depends entirely on the 
nature of the ink. For a logwood 
ink stain, use dilute muriatic acid, 1 
part of acid to 10 parts of water. 
This removes the stain, first turning 
it red; but it converts the stain of 
red eosin ink to an insoluble brick-red 
substance, and a nigrosine ink stain 
to an indelible blue-black dye. 

For an iron-gall ink, use oxgall or 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



433 



mineral acids, as muriatic, sulphuric, 
and the like. These decompose the 
black tannate of iron, but have no ef- 
fect on the indigo and aniline blues 
which are added to most modern 
inks, especially the blue-black writing 
fluids. 

Hence the first step is to find out 
what the ink contains. If convenient, 
this may be done by putting a few 
drops on a piece of cloth, and testing 
with that; meantime taking measures 
to prevent the stain from spreading. 
First dry the sample and attack it 
with water. If the ink contains 
nigrosine, it will dissolve in water and 
the stain will spread. In that case 
use an alkali, as baking soda, cover- 
ing the stain thickly and moistening it 
with water. If the ink does not run, 
it is probably iron-gall or logwood 
ink, hence an acid may be tried, but 
if the acid does not succeed, try soda 
or other alkali. 

On white fabrics, the best way to 
remove ink stains is to cover the spot 
with chloride of lime and moisten with 
dilute muriatic acid. This sets the 
chlorine free to attack the stain. Ni- 
trate of silver stains may be removed 
by cyanide of potassium, but this 
must be used with great care, as it is 
very poisonous. 

For colored fabrics pyrophosphate 
of soda may be tried. Fabrics should 
be immediately washed with clear 
water after the stain has been re- 
moved. 

CASE or JEWELBY 

To Keep Jewelry at its best it 
should be properly stored when not 
in use and occasionally cleaned and 
polished, or recolored, when necessary, 
to restore its original luster. Most 
jewelry contains more or less alloy 
which wUl tarnish, and articles of sil- 
ver are especially likely to tarnish by 
contact with substances containing 
silver, or by fumes of sulphur which 
are often present in the atmosphere. 
It should be remembered that 30 per 
cent to 60 per cent of rubber con- 
sists of sulphur; hence rubber bands 



and articles containing rubber should 
never be brought in close proximity 
to fine silver articles. 

To Store Jewelry. — When not in 
use, jewelry may be covered with a 
thin film of collodion dissolved in 
ether or alcohol. 

Or laid away in boxes covered with 
boxwood sawdust, which may be ob- 
tained from any jeweler. 

To Clean Jewelry. — To clean arti- 
cles of gold or silver, use castile soap 
and an old soft toothbrush or jewel- 
er's brush, and wash carefully. Rinse 
in clear cold water, lay in a box of 
boxwood or other sawdust, and shake 
gently until dry. Rings containing 
gems should be removed when the 
hands are being washed, or their lus- 
ter will be impaired. 

To clean a gold or silver chain, put 
it in a small glass bottle with warm 
suds of castile soap and a little whit- 
ing or prepared chalk. Shake well, 
rinse with cold water, and dry in saw- 
dust. 

To Polish Jewelry. — To polish gold 
jewelry, make a paste of whiting with 
sal volatile, cover the article, and let 
dry. Then brush off vrith an old 
toothbrush or polish with chamois. 

Or put in a glass vessel 3 ounces of 
sulphate of iron (green vitriol), and 
gradually add water, stirring with a 
glass rod until all is dissolved. Use 
no more water than is necessary. Add 
carbonate of ammonia gradually un- 
til all the iron falls as a sediment. 
Let the mixture settle and strain off 
the liquor through filter paper. Dry 
the pulverized iron by means of blot- 
ting paper. Place it in an earthen- 
ware cup or bowl or crucible, and 
heat it in a dark room until it glows 
softly. When cool, this is the best 
polishing powder that can be made. 

Or take 3 ounces of hydrochloric 
acid and add iron filings, stirring with 
a. glass rod until the acid has dis- 
solved all it can. Add aqua ammonia 
until the iron is all precipitated from 
this solution. Dilute this solution 
with water and collect the sediment 
on filter paper, drying slowly in sun- 
shine or with very gentle heat. To 



434 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



3i ounces of this substance add IJ 
ounces of sal ammoniac. This mix- 
ture has been for many years b trade 
secret of German gold workers, and 
commands a high price on the mar- 
ket. 

To Brighten Jewelry. — Heat to a 
boil J pint of soft water and pour it 
into a wide -mouthed glass bottle. 
Add 1 ounce of cyanide of potassium 
and shake until dissolved. When cold, 
add i fluid ounce of aqua ammonia 
and I fluid ounce of pure alcohol. 
This mixture is a deadly poison and 
must not touch any part of the skin. 
Even the fumes are most dangerous. 

To clean jewelry, make a hoop of 
a bit of wire, and with this dip the 
articles in the solution for a few sec- 
onds, remove, and rinse in clear water. 
Then wash with soapsuds to thor- 
oughly free from the cyanide, rinse, 
and dip in alcohol or benzine. To 
cause them to dry quickly, cover with 
sawdust. Cork the solution tightly 
for future use. Of course great care 
must be taken to keep this liquid out 
of the hands of children and careless 
persons. But if proper precautions 
are observed, it will be found to be 
one of the quickest ways to remove 
the tarnish from metallic articles and 
to give them their brightest luster. 

To Color Gold. — Mix saltpeter, 3 
ounces; green copperas, 1 ounce; 
white vitriol, 1 ounce; alum, 1 ounce. 
This mixture gives yellow gold a dark 
or reddish color. The addition of a 
little blue vitriol gives a darker shade. 

To Clean Jet. — ^To clean jet arti- 
cles, brush them free from dust with 
a soft camel's-hair brush, apply a 
little olive oil by means of a brush 
or bit of cotton wool, and polish with 
chamois. Great care must be used, 
as the carving usually makes jet arti- 
cles very brittle. 

GLASS AND IVOEY 

To Cut Glass. — To cut glass with 
a chisel, cover it with a solution of 
camphor gum dissolved in spirits of 
turpentine, and do the cutting while 
the glass is in the solution. 



To Anneal Glass. — To anneal or 
season glass, as lamp chimneys and 
the like, so that they will be less likely 
to break, immerse the glass in a ves- 
sel of cold water and heat it very 
gradually to the boiling point. Boil 
for any length of time — the longer 
the better — and do not remove from 
the water until it is cold. 

Or, if the glass is to be exposed to 
high temperatures, it may be more 
perfectly annealed by boiling in the 
same manner in oil. 

To Imitate Stained Glass. — Cut a 
suitable pattern from leaves of col- 
ored tissue papers, and apply to the 
glass by any suitable paste or muci- 
lage, as rice or wheat starch, with or 
without gum arable. Cover with a 
coat of copal varnish. 

To Soften Ivory. — ^Dissolve 3 ounces 
of spirits of niter in 10 ounces of soft 
water, and soak the ivory in this solu- 
tion for 3 or 4 days, when it will be 
soft and flexible. 

Or immerse the ivory in a solution 
of pure phosphoric acid until it be- 
comes practically transparent. Wash 
with clean cold water and dry. It is 
then flexible, but hardens as it dries. 
Its flexibility may be restored by 
soaking in hot water. This process, 
if continued, will render the ivory 
transparent. 

To Harden Ivory. — ^Wrap the ivory 
in tissue paper, cover with dry salt, 
and lay away a day or two. This will 
restore its natural hardness. 

To Polish Ivory. — Moisten a piece 
of felt or velveteen, dip in putty pow- 
der or pumice stone, and polish. 

Or fix the ivory on a nail or wheel 
and polish it by means of pumice 
stone and water, heat it by friction 
on a piece of coarse cloth, and while 
hot rub with whiting mixed with olive 
oil, followed by dry whiting and clean 
chamois. This gives a high luster. 

Or rub first with fine sandpaper, 
next with a wet cloth dipped in pum- 
ice stone, then with a cloth wet in 
soapsuds and dipped in whiting. 
When changing from a coarse to a 
finer material, use clean cloths and 
i-inse the article free from grit. 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



435 



To Etch on Ivory. — Varnish the ar- 
ticle with a mixture of wliite wax and 
mastic or with a thin coating of bees- 
wax, and trace the required designs 
through the wax. Take care to pro- 
tect all parts of the article except the 
design, and immerse it in a strong 
solution of nitrate of silver. After a 
sufScient length of time, to be deter- 
mined by experiment, remove and 
wash in clear, hot water. The design 
will appear in black upon the ivory. 

Or protect the article by a suitable 
varnish as above, and apply a solu- 
tion of J ounce of sulphuric acid, J 
ounce of muriatic acid, and 10 ounces 
of water. The acids will eat away the 
exposed portions of the ivory, leaving 
the design engraved on its surface. 

GYFSTTU, ALABASTEB, ETC. 

Gypsum. — Gypsum is a mineral 
which is found in nature in several 
forms. Chemically it consists of bi- 
hydrated calcium sulphate. It occurs 
in translucent crystals, as selenite; in 
massive forms and opaque crystals, 
as gypsum; in fine-grained partially 
translucent masses, as alabaster, and 
in a fibrous form, as satin spar. 
When heated, gypsum gives off the 
water it contains and pulverizes into 
an opaque powder which, if moistened, 
quickly solidifies. This powder is 
known commercially as plaster of 
Paris. It is made by heating gypsum 
and grinding it to a fine powder. 
Gypsum is also used as a fertilizer, 
and in the manufacture of glass and 
porcelain. Plaster of Paris is chiefly 
used for making models and casts, 
and as a cement for marble and ala- 
baster. 

Among the most celebrated gypsum 
beds in the world are those of Mont- 
martre near Paris, which have given 
plaster of Paris its name. 

Alabaster. — This is a variety of 
gypsum of great beauty and easily 
carved on account of its softness; 
hence it is extensively employed for 
ornamental purposes. 

To Use Plaster of Paris. — To use 
plaster of Paris, mix it with water to 



the consistency of thick cream and 
apply at once, as it sets quickly. No 
more should be mixed at a time than 
will be required for immediate use. 

Or, if additional strength is desired, 
mix with a thin glue size, or a solu- 
tion of 1 or 3 ounces of gum arabic 
in 1 pint of water. These not only 
harden the plaster but give its sur- 
face a desirable smoothness. 

Or mix plaster of Paris with an 
equal weight of sulphate of potas- 
sium, and thin with 3 to 6 parts of 
water. This mixture sets very quick- 
ly and is harder than plaster of Paris 
alone. 

To Prevent Plaster of Paris from 
Setting. — Mix 2 per cent of alum, 
sulphate of potash, or borax, with 
plaster of Paris before adding water, 
and it will be prevented from solidi- 
fjring for 3 or 4 hours. Thus it can 
be handled much more readily. When 
dry, it will also be much harder than 
plaster of Paris alone. 

Or mix with vinegar diluted with 
water. The more vinegar used the 
longer the plaster will require to set. 

Molds for Plaster of Paris. — To 
make molds for casting plaster or- 
naments, mix 12 ounces of rosin, 8 
ounces of tallow, and C ounces of 
beeswax. 

Or use plaster of Paris itself. 

Or mix equal quantities of clean 
white sand and pulverized limestone 
or marble dust, and to 14 pounds of 
this mixture add 1 pound of litharge 
and 4 pounds of linseed oil. Grind 
or rub up the litharge with the oil, 
heat the mixture of sand and lime- 
stone to di-yness, stir into a stiff mor- 
tar, and pour in an oiled mold. 

To Cast Plaster of Paris. — Oil the 
object to be copied and cover it to a 
sufficient depth with one of the above 
mixtures, so that when removed the 
mold will be strong enough to han- 
dle. If plaster of Paris is used to 
make the mold, the object to be cop- 
ied must be moistened, but no drops 
must be allowed to stand on the 
surface. 

The mold should be made in two 
parts, which may be done by molding 



436 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



first one side up to » given line, and 
then the other. Leave an opening 
through which to pour the plaster. 

To make castings, it is only neces- 
sary to oil or moisten the inside of a 
mold. Lock the two parts of the 
mold together, oil the edges so that 
they can be readily separated, and 
pour the mold full of plaster from 
a funnel through the opening left for 
that purpose. After the plaster has 
set, the mold may be removed and 
used repeatedly. 

To Harden Plaster-of-Paris Ob- 
jects. — Put in an iron kettle 3 pounds 
of a solution of caustic potash. Add 
in shavings 2 ounces of stearin and 
2 ounces of castile soap, and boil for 
half an hour, stirring constantly. Add 
1 ounce of pearlash dissolved in a lit- 
tle soft water. Let the whole boil 
up, remove from the fire, and stir un- 
til cold. Now stir in cold potash lye 
imtil the mass becomes perfectly 
liquid and falls in drops from the 
stirrer. Let stand for several days 
tightly covered before using. This 
preparation will keep for years. 

Clean the plaster-of-Paris casts and 
other obj ects free from dust and - 
stains, and apply this mixture with a 
paint brush as long as the plaster of 
Paris wiU absorb it. Let dry and 
dust with a brush or chamois leather. 
Repeat, if necessary, until the casts 
take on a satisfactory polish. 

To Hake Artificial Marble. — Mix 
plaster of Paris with a solution of 
alum, put it in an oven, and bake un- 
til the water is completely evaporated. 
Afterwards grind to powder. Mix 
with water and stir in any desired 
coloring matter in powdered form to 
make clouds and veins. When dry, 
this mixture sets very hard and takes 
a high polish. 

To Imitate Alabaster. — To imitate 
alabaster with objects made of plaster 
of Paris, warm the articles and sus- 
pend them by means of horsehair or 
fine wire in melted white wax of the 
best quality. Continue until the plas- 
ter of Paris has absorbed all it can. 
Hang up the articles to dry, and pol- 
ish with a clean brush. Any pure 



white wax will answer this purpose. 
To harden these objects, suspend 
them in a clear solution of alum un- 
til crystals form upon the surface. 
Remove, and polish with a damp 
cloth. 

To Glean Alabaster. — Wash with 
castUe soap and water. 

Or, to remove stains, cover with 
white fuller's earth or pipe clay. Let 
stand for a few hours and wash off. 

Or, if much stained, wash with very 
dilute sulphuric acid, using about 1 
ounce of sulphuric acid to 20 oimces 
of water. 

Or rub with a cloth moistened with 
lemon juice and dipped in pumice 
stone. Rinse with clear water and 
polish with a dry chamois. 

To Make Prepared Chalk. — ^Add a 
solution of carbonate of soda to a. 
solution of muriate of lime as long 
as the chalk is precipitated. Strain 
through filter paper and then pour 
on clear water until the sediment is 
perfectly clean. Dry in direct sun- 
shine. 

Safety Matches. — To make safety 
matches, mix 6 ounces of chloride of 
potash, 2 ounces of bichromate of pot- 
ash, 3 ounces of ferric oxide witii 3 
ounces of strong liquid glue. Mix 
thoroughly with gentle heat, taking 
care that it does not take fire, and 
dip the match heads in this. These 
matches will not kindle on sandpaper 
or by ordinary friction, but must be 
rubbed on a surface especially pre- 
pared for them as follows: 

Mix 10 ounces of sulphide of anti- 
mony, 2 ounces of bichromate of pot- 
ash, 3 ounces of oxide of iron, lead, 
or manganese, 1 ounce of glass pow- 
der, 2 ounces of strong glue or gum. 
This preparation is spread like paint 
while warm on suitable paper, which 
is fastened on the boxes containing 
the matches. 

Or dissolve 4 ounces of gum arable 
in just enough water to make thick 
mucilage or paste, and stir in 4 
ounces of powdered peroxide of man- 
ganese, 2J ounces of phosphorus, and 
place on the back of a closed stove, 
but do not heat above 130° F. or ex- 



THE FAMILY WORKROOM 



43r 



pose to an open flame. Stir until the 
phosphorus is melted, then add 3i 
ounces of niter and stir the whole to 
a uniform paste. First dip the 
matches in melted brimstone, let dry, 
and afterwards dip the heads in this 
substance. This mixture may be per- 
fumed by the addition of J ounce of 
gum benzoin. The lids of the boxes 
may be coated with the same mix- 
ture by means of a brush, or pieces 
of sandpaper may be coated in the 
same manner, and attached to match 
safes or boxes for convenience in 
lighting. 



Ordinary Matches. — Dip the 
matches first in hot melted sulphur, 
let dry and steep in turpentine. Af- 
terwards dip the heads in a mixture 
of 5 ounces of chloride of potash, S 
ounces of flowers of sulphur, 1 ounce 
of vermilion mixed to a paste witli 
oil of turpentine. 

Or dip the matches in hot melted 
sulphur, steep in turpentine, and dip 
the heads in a mixture of 4 ounces 
of melted glue, 1 ounce of phosphorus 
with the addition of whiting stirred 
in to make it of the right consistency, 
and vei-milion or lampblack to color. 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE TOILET AND BATH 

THE SKIN— BATHS AND BATHING— KINDS OF BATHS— THE TOILET- 
TOILET SOAPS— MEDICATED SOAP— THE HANDS— MANICURING 



THE SKIN 

The Human Skin has Wo principal 
functions: to protect the body, and 
to remove, by perspiration, the re- 
sults of certain bodily changes. The 
skin consists of two layers, as may 
be clearly seen when blisters form. 
The upper layer or outer skin shows 
a tendency to form cells of a. horny 
substance, such appendages as the 
hair, nails, and corns being a con- 
tinuation of this process. These 
horny substances have the property 
of absorbing a certain amount of 
water. This softens them and caiises 




r-AT C£ilS. 



" The Anatomy of the Skin." 

them to swell. It is well known that 
the skin becomes soft by immersion 
in a hot bath or by having the hands 
for a considerable time in suds or 
dishwater, and that this softening ex- 
tends to the nails, corns, and calluses. 
After a warm bath a considerable 
quantity of the horny scales of the 



438 



skin can be removed by the use of 
a rough towel. Nails, corns, and the 
like when wet can be readily cut or 
scraped off. A considerable amount 
of water remains in the skin after 
bathing, and unless care is exercised 
it tends by rapid evaporation to re- 
move heat and to cause colds. But 
normally a certain amount of water 
should remain in the skin, and if too 
much of this evaporates, the skin 
chaps and cracks. 

The permanent color of the skin 
is due to certain pigment granules 
found in its inner layer. The tran- 
sient red color, as in blushing, de- 
pends lipon the amount of blood in 
the blood vessels and the thickness 
of the epidermis or outer skin, most 
of the blood vessels themselves lying 
in the inner skin. 

The skin contains sweat glands 
which secrete perspiration, and seba- 
ceous glands, which secrete a fatty 
substance that tends to keep the skin 
smooth and to prevent it from drying 
by too great evaporation. This fatty 
substance also gives the hair its nat- 
ural gloss. Obstruction of the sweat 
glands gives rise to pimples, black- 
heads, and the like. These are the 
principal facts regarding the anat- 
omy of the skin, which should be un- 
derstood by those who seek to im- 
prove its appearance. 

There is a direct and reciprocal 
action between the condition of the 
skin and the general bodily health. 
The two watchwords in the campaign 
for the preservation' or improvement 
of the complexion are, therefore, 
cleanliness and hygiene. Plenty of 



THE TOILET AND BATH 



43d 



outdoor exercise, good ventilation, a 
well-regulated appetite, and a cheer- 
ful habit of mind are essential. As 
to diet, an excess of butter, fat meat, 
and greasy food should be avoided. 
AU stimulants, as coffee, tea, wine, 
and spirits, should be given up or 
used with great moderation. Fruit 
and vegetables should be the staples 
of diet) sweets, cake, and pastry, and 
also pickles and acid foods, should be 
dispensed with. If these instructions, 
with those given under baths and 
bathing, are followed until they be- 
come the habits of a. lifetime, the 
bloom of youth can be preserved far 
into old age. 

Hardening the Skin. — The power 
of the skin to adjust itself to 
changes in temperature varies great- 
ly. It can be increased by measures 
whicli improve the circulation of the 
blood, as nourishment and exercise; 
also by what is sometimes called the 
" hardening process." The skin may 
be hardened by living an out-of-door 
life, wearing light but sufficient cloth- 
ing with woolen next the body, sleep- 
ing with open windows but avoiding 
draughts, and taking daily baths, 
first with warm, afterwards with cold 
water. These steps should be taken 
gradually, and increased in severity 
as the body becomes accustomed to 
them. 

Nervous persons, especially chil- 
dren, may be overstiraulated by these 
measures, which may thus lead to 
lifelong nervous difSculties. The dan- 
ger is minimized by giving the warm 
bath first. Cold baths alone should 
not be taken except by persons of 
strong constitution. The air bath in 
various temperatures and currents 
of air is also a valuable means of 
hardening the skin. This hardening 
process tends to prevent colds and 
their consequences. 

Diseases of the Skin. — No general 
treatment can be suggested that will 
apply to aU. diseases of the skin. 
Eruptions and rashes are often 
symptomatic of diseases of the blood 
and other grave conditions. When a 
strange eruption suddenly appears 



on the skin a physician should, as a 
rule, be promptly consulted. There 
are, however, a number of common 
disease conditions which yield to sini- 
ple remedies. Among these are tan, 
sunburn, freckles, moth patches, pim- 
ples, blackheads or flesh worms, 
moles, etc. 

Slackheads or "Flesh Worms." — 
The fatty substance which exudes 
from the sebaceous glands of the 
skin, if not removed by washing, 
sometimes hardens and corks up the 
gland itself. As the gland continues 
to secrete this substance it accumu- 
lates and causes a hard lump or 
swelling. When these blackheads are 
numerous, they become very unsight- 
ly. The best treatment is to press 
out the contents between the fingers 
or press the hollow end of a. watch 
key over each speck. The entrance 
to these glands is in spiral form 
like a corkscrew. Hence the contents 
when pressed out have a, vermiform 
appearance, and are supposed by 
many to be small animal creatures, 
hence called " flesh worms," but this 
is not the case. 

A warm face bath twice a day, and 
gentle friction from a soft towel, as 
above directed, is the best preventive 
and remedy for this condition. Spe- 
cifics for blackheads are the sulphate 
of zinc or of copper, or common pot- 
ash properly diluted. 

To use, mix 20 grains of sulphate 
of zinc or copper in 1 pint of dis- 
tilled water or rose water, or mix 1 
dram of fluid potash with 1 ounce of 
oil of sweet almonds. Then add 6 
ounces of pure soft water. First 
press out the contents of the black- 
head, rub with a rough towel, and 
apply this lotion with a camel's-hair 
brush or soft rag. 

A face wash containing fluid pot- 
ash, 1 ounce, cologne, 3 ounces, alco- 
hol, 4 ounces, is also beneficial. 

rreckles. — Freckles are discolora- 
tions formed in the deeper layers of 
the skin by the action of sunlight. 
Hence to affect them directly it is 
necessary to work through the outer 
layers of the skin with a remedy that 



440 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



will change the deposits of coloring 
matter. Freckles, accordingly, offer 
great resistance and are not amena- 
ble to ordinary treatment. Some au- 
thorities are of the opinion that in- 
digestion may resvilt in a deposit of 
carbonaceous or fatty matter beneath 
the skin, which, when acted upon by 
sunlight, will produce freckles. 
Hence, as a preventive, attention 
should be paid to diet and exercise 
to promote the normal secretions. 
The skin should be kept scrupulously 
clean by daily bathing, and the ac- 
tivity of the pores should be pro- 
moted by friction with a coarse 
towel. These methods are safer than 
the use of astringents or mineral 
emulsions, and the latter should never 
be employed without the advice of a 
competent physician. The only cer- 
tain preventive is the wearing of a 
brown veil whenever the complexion 
is exposed to sunlight. 

Moth Patches. — ^Apply a solution 
of common baking soda to the 
patches with a. soft rag or camel's- 
hair brush several times a day for 
two or three days. Allow this to dry 
on. This treatment is usually sufB- 
cient. Afterwards cleanse the face 
with a bran bath and the skin wiU 
usually be found clear and brilliant. 

Or keep alum at hand and rub oc- 
casionally on the moth patches. This 
will usually cause them to disappear. 

Holes. — ^Depilatories advertised for 
sale for the removal of moles are 
dangerous and their use is not rec- 
ommended. They frequently continue 
eating into the flesh until an ulcer is 
formed, and occasionally blood poi- 
son sets in. Some moles are of the 
nature of tumors, and too much care 
cannot be exercised in treating them. 
Concentrated acetic acid applied by 
means of a hair pencil will some- 
times do the work. If this succeeds 
once it can be used again, but it will 
not prevent the blemish from return- 
ing. Care must be taken that the 
acid does not extend to surrounding 
parts. 

Moles can sometimes be destroyed 
by the use of a burning glass. The 



patient must take his place in the 
clear, strong sunlight, and focus the 
burning glass on the affected part 
for about five minutes at a time 
daily, until the mole has been de- 
stroyed. Needless to say, this is a 
painful process, but it cannot be re- 
garded as dangerous. 

The electric needle in the hands of 
a competent physician is a thor- 
oughly safe and reliable method of 
treatment. 

Pimples. — The immediate cause of 
pimples is usually an excess of fatty 
matter in the skin. They are very 
common in young persons from four- 
teen to twenty years of age. They 
are often caused by constitutional 
conditions, and when very numerous 
are often persistent until the general 
health is restored. Exercise, atten- 
tion to the diet, and general hygienic 
measures are recommended. A warm 
face bath with a heaping teaspoonful 
of borax in the water will be found 
helpful. 

Scars. — Little scars are often left 
on the face after eruptions. A 
course of electric massage treatment 
soon effaces them. For home treat- 
ment, every night apply to the face a 
cold compress, keeping it on until 
the flesh becomes pink, then anoint 
the little spots with ointment of zinc 
oxide. 

Ointment for' Wrinkles or Relaxed 
Skin. — To 10 grains of camphor add 
3 ounces of prepared lard and 1 
fluid dram of rectified spirits of 
wine. Apply a little of the ointment 
at night, previously washing the face, 
and strengthen the body by means of 
tonics and nourishing diet. 

Or bathe the parts where the wrin- 
kles appear with alum and water. 
This wiU tighten the skin. 

Or fresh butter, 2 drams; essence 
of turpentine, 2 drams; mastic, 1 
dram. 

BATHS AND BAIHIir& 

Historians say that the civilization 
of a commimity can be estimated by 
the quantity of soap it consumes. 



THE TOILET AND BATH 



441 



Similarly the refinement of a family- 
is indicated by the amount of water 
it uses. 

Records of cities show that the 
amount used each day on an average 
by each person runs from seven or 
eight gallons among the poor, where 
there is only one faucet in the house, 
to about sixty gallons in the .homes 
of wealthy persons. The average of 
an ordinary famUy in cities may be 
taken as about twenty gallons daily 
for each member. More water is 
used in the summer than in the win- 
ter — which is an argument in favor 
of a bathroom, even where there is 
no furnace in the house. About ten 
barrels of water would be required 
every day on this basis by a family 
of ten persons. 

A humorist has said that mankind 
may be divided into two classes — 
those who take a full bath every day, 
and those who do not. Many folks 
would think this writer a snob, but 
the daily bath is common in house- 
, holds which enjoy all the modern 
conveniences. The daily " tub " of 
the English gentlemen is proverbial, 
and laughable stories are told of the 
efforts made by Englishmen to keep 
up this practice under difficulties. A 
great many English officers took fold- 
ing bath tubs with them on baggage 
trains during the recent war in South 
Africa, and tried to enjoy their daily 
morning tub even under fire. This is 
extreme. But most families ought to 
approach nearer to this ideal than 
they ordinarily do. 

The weekly bath, however, is cus- 
tomary in homes where there is no 
bathroom, but this custom might be 
even more generally observed. The 
habit of bathing grows, in most cases, 
out of regard for appearances rather 
than regard for health. The grimly 
facetious remark of a certain wid- 
ower, who had been bereaved a num- 
ber of times, that he was going to 
take a bath, because he always made 
it a point of doing so before being 
married, whether he needed it or not, 
hints at a habit of mind which is 
quite commonf 



Cleanliness is said to be next to 
godliness, and it is certain that the 
habit of church attendance is in 
many households a strong incentive 
to the custom of weekly bathing. 
The same remark applies to social 
gatherings, and such events as wed- 
dings, christenings, and funerals. 

The bath is the foundation of the 
toilet. Most persons naturally take a 
bath preparatory to putting on their 
Sunday clothes or other holiday at- 
tire. If this were not the case we 
fear that consideration of the health, 
based on modern hygienic science, 
would not of itself be sufficient in- 
ducement to bathe. But when a per- 
son is half persuaded by custom to 
take a weekly bath, any knowledge 
he may have of its advantages to 
health will help him to decide in its 
favor. 

In "Trilby" the Jew Svengali 
laughed immoderately at the two 
English gentlemen for bathing daily, 
when they " were not dirty." He 
overlooked the point that the proper 
function of the bath is not to make 
us clean, but to keep us so. 

The himian skin contains millions 
of pores. The business of these pores 
is to bring to the surface the waste 
materials of the body, which other- 
wise pass off principally through the 
kidneys. If the pores become clogged 
by the accumulation of effete matter 
they are unable to fulfill their proper 
functions, and the kidneys are 
obliged to do extra work, which may 
bring on chronic diseases of those or- 
gans. 

Colds are caused by lack of proper 
contraction of the pores of the skin 
when the body is exposed from 
draughts or otherwise. As a result 
the blood is cooled too rapidly and 
has a tendency to chill and congest 
the internal organs, as the mucous 
surfaces of the head and nose, and 
also of the alimentary canal, the kid- 
neys, etc. The resulting symptoms 
show in acute form the bad effects 
of neglect of bathing. In fact, fre- 
quent bathing is almost a sure pre- 
ventive of colds. If the pores are 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



kept clean they are active, and resist 
the chills which tend to produce cold. 
If they are not kept clean they are 
sluggish and inactive, and in no con- 
dition to offer normal resistance to 
sudden changes in temperature. 

Certain portions of the body, as the 
armpits, the feet, and the groin, have 
many more pores to the square inch 
than the rest; hence these perspire 
more freely and should be cleansed 
often. The feet especially should be 
very frequently washed. There is no 
better practice from the health stand- 
point than a daily footbath. 

The Bathroom. — Bathrooms are no 
longer a novelty in small towns and 
farmhouses. But it must be under- 
stood that to enjoy these in winter. 




"No Longer a Noveliy." 



requires almost of necessity a range 
or furnace. Pipes in kitchens may be 
kept warm by stoves, and bathrooms 
ad j oining the kitchen may be warmed 
by leaving the door open between 
or the bathroom may be over the 
kitchen, and a drum or smokepipe 
from the kitchen stove arranged so 
as to heat the pipes in the bathroom. 
But it is usually better not to have 
running water in the bathroom in 
winter until a furnace is put in. It 
pays, however, to partition off a 
bathroom near the kitchen and put 
in a bath tub, if there is rimning 



water or a hand pump in the bath- 
room, with drainpipes to carry away 
waste — even if it is necessary to car- 
ry cold water to the tub from the 
kitchen sink and hot water from the 
stove in pails. A good bath tub is 
not a luxury, but a necessity to com- 
fort, cleanliness, and health. 

If the bathroom is near the kitchen, 
the tub can be filled by bringing hot 
and cold water in pails; and if the 
tub is elevated slightly, the water can 
be drawn off in pails and carried to 
the drain after the bath; or, if a tub 
is used which does not have a, faucet 
for drainage, the waste water can be 
easily removed by using a small piece 
of rubber tube as a siphon, or by a 
dipper and large bath sponge. Every 
household should be provided with a 
full-size tub, even if it is only of tin. 
I'ortable rubber tubs which can be 
folded and put away when not in use 
are also obtainable. But a cast-iron 
tub is preferable and not too expen- 
sive. 

The entire cost of pliunbing for a 
bathroom, including supply pipe, hot- 
water pipe, and all necessary fixtures, 
provided you have a water supply in 
the house, will not exceed $150. This 
sum can be reduced by doing some 
of the work yourself. 

Even if there is no furnace, the 
bathroom can be used from early 
spring to late fall, and especially 
through the summer season, when it 
is above aU essential to hetilth and 
comfort. Every family should make 
the necessary sacrifices to put in and 
enjoy this great convenience. 

To Faint an Iron Bath Tub. — Mix 
the paint to a proper consistency 
with best coachmaker's japan var- 
nish. For white-lead paint, use half 
turpentine and half coachmaker's ja- 
pan. It will not darken much. Ve- 
netian red is best for a first coat for 
any color but white. 

Bathroom Conveniences. — Conven- 
ience has a great deal to do with 
the formation of habits; and parents, 
especially mothers, who desire to cul- 
tivate habits of personal cleanliness 
in the household, wiU find that a 



THE TOILET AND BATH 



44B 



bathroom furnished with the neces-: 
sary conveniences will largely solve 
this problem. 

A closet should be constructed in 
one corner of the bathroom and 
stocked with the accessories of the 
bath and toilet. 

A wire basket can be purchased for 
a few cents, or made by any ingeni- 
ous member of the family, to hang on 
the edge of the bath tub and hold 
sponge, soap, etc. This will be found 
to be a great convenience. 

A hamper or laundry hag makes a 
convenient receptacle for soiled body 
and household linen; or separate bags 
might be arranged — one for each kind. 

A set time for each member of the 
family to take the weekly bath will 
also tend to promote the convenience 
of the household. Saturday night 
and Sunday morning are probably 
the best times for most persons. The 
weekly bath thus becomes a prepa- 
ration for the Sunday morning toilet, 
which is ordinarily the most careful 
and elaborate of the week. 

The following suggestions and rec- 
ipes have been grouped about the 
idea of a thorough weekly personal 
" cleaning up " and toilet for " over 
Sunday." The reader will, of course, 
understand that these remarks and 
recipes apply equally well to the 
daily morning baths and those for 
special occasions; and in many cases 
specific recommendations for these 
occasions have been made. 

Dont's , for Bathers. — Don't take 
any kind of a bath within two hours 
after eating a hearty meal. 

Don't neglect a daily bath of some 
kind. Don't neglect the daily Sim 
and air bath. 

Don't take a cold bath when fa- 
tigued; but take a bath in water as 
hot as can be borne. It will help to 
rest you. 

Don't strip for a bath when the 
body is cooling after perspiration, 
but step into a warm bath while the 
body is heated. 

Don't stay too long in the water. 
Get out before you begin to feel 
chilly. 



Don't stand around on the bank or 
in boats after bathing until you get 
a chill. 

Don't bathe early in the morning 
on an empty stomach unless you are 
vigorous and strong enough to stand 
it. The best time for you may be 
two or three hours after breakfast. 

Don't neglect the weekly hot-water 
bath, followed by a change of cloth- 
ing to keep the body clean and 
healthy. 

Don't believe that you can get rid 
of wrinkles by filling them in with 
powder. Just before going to bed 
bathe your face in warm, then in 
cold water. And quit worrying. It 
will save you many a wrinkle. 

Temperature of the Bath. — The 
temperature of the bath for cleanli- 
ness should be about 95° F. A cold 
shower bath or douche to follow the 
warm bath should be about 77° F. 
A cool bath should be about 77° F., 




"A Homemade Shower Bath. 



but the temperature at the start may 
be lowered for those who are accus- 
tomed to it. 

The water for a person in ordinary 
health should be drawn about as hot 
as is agreeable; but care should be 
taken not to remain too long in a 



444 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



hot bath. This applies especially to 
persons who are thin-blooded, ner- 
vous, or neuralgic. After the body 
has been thoroughly cleansed, it is a 
good idea to gradually introduce cold 
water into the tub until a perceptible 
chill is felt. 

If there is running water in the 
bathroom, a shower bath may be had 
by obtaining the detachable rubber 
tubes and fixtures used for this pur- 
pose, which come very cheap. The 
shower bath is the best means of 
cooling the Itody after a hot bath. 
When this is done, or after a cold 
bath, a reaction should be brought 
about by a vigorous rubbing with a 
Turkish towel until the body is in a 
warm glow. This practice would al- 
most certainly prevent all colds and 
many fevers, with their fatal conse- 
quences. 

KINDS OF BATHS 

Outdoor Bathing. — This form of 
bathing, if moderately indulged in, is 
an excellent exercise for bodily devel- 
opment. In warm climates it may be 
practiced throughout the year; but in 
northern latitudes fresh-water bath- 
ing should not be indulged in except 
in summer. There are some fanatics 
who recommend outdoor bathing 
throughout the year, and now and 
then a person is strong enough to 
endure such exposure. But to rec- 
ommend it to everybody is foolish, if 
not criminal. Particular care should 
be taken in outdoor bathing that the 
body does not suffer a chill. A reac- 
tion should be produced by rubbing 
briskly' with a dry towel. 

Sea Bath. — A trip to the seashore 
for the purpose of salt-water bath- 
ing is very beneficial to persons in a 
run-down condition, with the excep- 
tion of those suffering from nervous 
diseases, heart diseases, or consump- 
tion. Salt-water bathing is especially 
good for children who have scrofula, 
and for persons who have catarrh. 

Salt water and salt air are stimu- 
lating and invigorating. The shock 
caused by the surf tends to produce 



a healthful fatigue which strengthens 
the bodily functions and promotes 
hunger and appetite. Bathers in salt 
water, especially invalids, should 
leave the water before they are 
chilled or overtired, dry the body 
thoroughly, and follow the bath by 
some mild exercise, as walking. 

Air Bath. — After the bath all per- 
sons, especially children, should ex- 
pose the body to the air for. a con- 
siderable length of time. Benjamin 
Franklin says that every morning at 
daybreak he was accustomed to get 
out of bed, and pass more or less 
than an hour, according to the sea- 
son, in writing or reading in his 
chamber without any clothes; and he 
adds that this custom was agreeable 
rather than otherwise. There is no 
doubt that light, especially direct 
sunlight, upon the skin is one of the 
most valuable agents for the preser- 
vation of health. 

A complete change of clothing 
should be made after the bath. The 
contact of clothing with the skin 
greatly promotes its secretions, and 
this is very necessary to health. 
Flannel generates heat — Whence opens 
the pores of the skin and allows the 
secretions to flow. It is therefore the 
proper clothing next the body. 

If the effete matter thrown off by 
the skin in perspiration is retained 
by the clothing, the gravest conse- 
quences to health may result in addi- 
tion to the discomforts of imcleanli- 
ness. Colds, fevers, and vermin of 
all sorts are merely human ignorance, 
laziness, and uncleanliness out on ex- 
hibition. 

Cold Sponge Bath. — Many persons 
make a practice of taking a cold 
sponge bath every morning, followed 
by vigorous rubbing vrith a coarse 
towel or ilesh brush. The best meth- 
od of doing this is to fill a washbowl 
or basin with water and let it stand 
in the room over night, so as to ac- 
quire the same temperature as the 
air in the room. Rub with the bare 
hands rather than with a. cloth or 
sponge, wetting only a small portion 
of the body at a time and rubbing 



THE TOILET AND BATH 



44d 



that portion until a reaction is expe- 
rienced. Washing the face and head, 
next the arms, the baclt, the lower 
portion of the chest, and the lower 
limbs, in the order mentioned, is a 
good rule for cold-water bathing. 
After the rub-down with a coarse 
towel, the skin should be pink, all in 
a tingle, and the whole surface of the 
body should be in a warm glow. 
Some persons cannot endure this 
regimen, although it is highly bene- 
ficial to others. A few days or weeks 
of experience will test its expediency. 
This is worth trying, because it often 
results in a life habit which is ex- 
ceedingly beneficial. Those who are 
less robust may obtain some of the 
benefits of the cold sponge bath by a 
vigorous rubbing with a towel or 
flesh brush each morning when the 
bath is not taken. When bathing in 
winter, the shock from cold water is 
lessened by standing a minute in the 
cold air after removing the clothing 
and before applying the water. 

Footbath. — This bath may be 
taken for cleansing purposes or for 
the purpose of drawing the blood 
from other parts of the body. Con- 
gestion of blood in the head may be 
relieved by a footbath in cold water. 
If convenient, the patient may walk 
for a few minutes in a brook or 
stream reaching about to the ankles. 
This may be followed by a brisk rub- 
bing and some exercise, as walking. 
Or the patient may first put his feet 
in hot water for from three to five 
minutes and then plunge them for 
half a minute into cold water. Af- 
terwards the feet should be rubbed 
dry and the person should take ex- 
ercise by walking. 

^ Salt-water Bath. — Add 4 or S 
pounds of sea salt, which can be pur- 
chased of any druggist, to a full bath 
at the temperature of 65° F. The 
patient should remain in this bath 
from 10 to 30 minutes, and after- 
wards should rest for half an hour 
in a recumbent position. Such baths 
are useful in general debility pro- 
duced by wasting diseases, as scrof- 
ula and other diseases of the skin. 



anaemia, etc. Sea salt should not be 
used for children. It does not pene- 
trate the skin, but acts as a stimu- 
lant. 

Uustard Bath. — The addition of 3 
or 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered 
mustard to a hot footbath in cases of 
chill is a preventive against taking 
cold, and is also useful in the early 
stages of colds to induce perspira- 
tion. The feet should be taken out 
of this bath as soon as the skin red- 
dens and begins to smart. The parts 
bathed should be carefully cleansed, 
rinsed, and wiped dry. Great care 
should be exercised in giving mustard 
baths to children, else the skin may 
become badly blistered. 

The Bran Bath. — Make a decoction 
of wheat bran by boiling 4 or 5 
poimds of wheat bran in a linen bag. 
The juice extracted, and also the 
bran itself, .should be put into the 
water. This is for a full bath at a 
temperature of about 90° F. This 
bath is of service in all skin affec- 
tions accompanied by itching. 

Cabinet Baths. — A number of spe- 
cial cabinets are devised for giving 
different kinds of baths for medicinal 
purposes. Purchasing one of these 
is usually not necessary unless there 
are one or more invalids in the fam- 
ily. In such cases the selection of a 
suitable cabinet should be made only 
upon the advice of the family physi- 
cian. The following forms of bath- 
ing require the use of cabinets: 

Stool Bath. — This is likewise known 
as the Russian bath. It consists in 
filling a room with steam at a tem- 
perature Under low pressure of about 
120° F. Stool baths are very little 
used, but the same effect is produced 
by a cabinet which has an opening 
for the head so that the patient is 
not obliged to breathe the steam. A 
steam bath for the face and head 
may be obtained by holding the face 
over a receptacle fuU of boiling wa- 
ter, and throwing a cloth or oilcloth 
over the head and shoulders so as to 
partly prevent the escape of the 
steam. 

The Hot-air Bath.— In the Turk- 



446 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ish bath, several connecting rooms 
are heated to different degrees of 
temperature, and the patient passes 
slowly from the coolest to the warm- 
est room for the purpose of inducing 
perspiration. He is then given a 
cold shower or douche, rubbed dry, 
wrapped in blankets and permitted 
to rest. These baths are very ener- 
vating and should only be taken by 
persons of strong constitution. The 
hot-air bath, however, for the pur- 
pose of inducing perspiration, is su- 
perior to the steam bath. It should 
be so taken that the person's head 
will be outside of the cabinet and he 
will not be obliged to breathe the hot 
air. A temperature of 120° to 130° 
F. is sufficient. Great care should be 
taken that the air does not become 
superheated, as danger is likely to 
ensue from a temperature exceeding 
140° F. The patient should not re- 
main in the hot-air bath more than 
fifteen or twenty minutes, and should 
then be given a cool bath and rubbed 
down. If additional perspiration is 
desired, he should be wrapped in 
blankets. 

Steam baths and hot-air baths 
should ordinarily be taken only by 
and with the jidvice of the family 
physician. 

THE TOILET 

The Complexion. — The object of 
attention to the complexion should be 
to preserve the skin in its normal 
condition of health, and to remove all 
abnormal eifects and conditions. 
Among these may be mentioned ex- 
cessive dryness or evaporation, by 
exposure to dry and biting winds, of 
the water normally contained in the 
skin; the opposite extreme of exces- 
sive perspiration; and the obstruction 
of the pores by dirt or grime or other 
causes, which is the parent of various 
eruptions and other skin diseases. 
These subjects are taken up in turn 
in the following pages, and the prin- 
cipal standard remedies are cited. 

Many persons regard attention to 
these matters as evidence of vanity 



and light-headedness, and others go 
to the opposite extreme and give 
much more time and thought to tlie 
niceties of the toilet than is either 
wise or necessary. Doubtless the wise 
and sane course lies between these 
two extremes. The normal condition 
of the skin resulting in a firm, 
smooth, and soft texture and a clear 
pink-and-white complexion, not only 
contributes to personal attractive- 
ness, but also to the sense of comfort, 
included in the general term " good 
health." 

Women (and men, too) have a 
natural right to a good complexion. 
The contrary is evidence of some im- 
proper or diseased condition, and it 
is perfectly natural and proper to 
seek and apply suitable remedies. 

Beauty Doctors. — On the other 
hand, we earnestly advise against the 
patronage of so-called "beauty doc- 
tors," many of whom are unquestion- 
ably quacks and charlatans, and we 
urge the use of homemade prepara- 
tions. Many of the standard prepa- 
rations widely advertised for sale 
contain the most injurious mineral 
drugs, such, for example, as mercury, 
arsenic, lead, bismuth, etc. These are 
freely used by many " beauty doc- 
tors," and we regret to say that rec- 
ipes containing them have been pub- 
lished without caution in many books 
of household recipes which have had 
a wide circulation. All such prepa- 
rations have been carefully excluded 
from this volume. Approved recipes 
have been given which will accom- 
plish every desirable object without 
_the possibility of any injurious con- 
sequences. 

Homemade Toilet Preparations. — 
Many toilet preparations advertised 
for sale contain organic substances 
which deteriorate by decaying, and in 
this condition poison the skin. More- 
over, most proprietary articles are 
very expensive. We feel safe in as- 
suring the most careful and conserv- 
ative mothers that the compounding 
at home and use of any of the prep- 
arations herein recommended will be 
a. perfectly safe and innocent em- 



THE TOILET AND BATH 



447 



ployment for their daughters or 
themselves. Any disposition to do so 
should, we think, be encouraged. A 
few vials of essential oils as per- 
fumes, small quantities of almonds 
and other required ingredients, may 
be bought at the drug store for less 
than a single bottle of a proprietary 
article can be purchased, and all in- 
terested will have the satisfaction of 
knowing that the materials are fresh 
and of good quality, and that no 
harmful consequences from their use 
need be feared. 

Country girls should have the best 
complexions in the world, but this is 
not always the case. Those who have 
not been favored by nature in this 
respect very often envy their city 
cousins' supposed advantages of easy 
access to "beauty doctors" and the 
large department stores and drug 
stores where toilet preparations of 
all sorts are for sale. The country 
girl has, in fact, a pronounced advan- 
tage over her city cousin if she has 
the wit to utilize it. Many of the 
most effective agents and remedies 
for the toilet are to be had in every 
farmhouse, and it is safe to say that 
the country girl can stock her dress- 
ing table with a full line of toilet 
preparations if she so desires, of bet- 
ter quality than her city cousin can 
purchase. And she can do so much 
more cheaply and conveniently. 

To Preserve the Complexion. — To 
prevent the excessive evaporation of 
water normally present in the skin, 
it is well to rub a small quantity 
of cold cream over the face before 
going out in the hot sun or wind. 
Just enough should be used to cover 
the surface without its being notice- 
able. In hot climates the use of 
similar preparations to prevent the 
drying of the skin is practically uni- 
versal. 

A veil is also a desirable protection 
against bad weather. Chiffon or 
other material of the finest mesh 
should be preferred. Frenchwomen 
of the middle and upper classes never 
think of going out without a veil. 
Englishwomen and the inhabitants of 



warm climates generally tarry para- 
sols. 

To Wash the Face.— When the 
face is red or dry from exposure to 
sun and air, or grimed with dirt or 
smoke, it is well to put on It a quan- 
tity of cold cream and rub thor- 
oughly with d soft cloth. After the 
irritation has been somewhat less- 
ened, the face should be thoroughly 
washed and cleansed. Fill a basin 
two thirds full of fresh soft water. 
If your source of water supply is 
hard water, put a teaspoonful of 
powdered borax into the basin. Dip 
the face in the water, and afterwards 
the hands. Soap the hands well, and 
rub with a gentle motion over the 
face. Dip the face a second time, 
rinse thoroughly, and wipe with a 
thick, soft towel. After the bath a 
slightly astringent lotion is very re- 
freshing. 

The use of a good cleansing cream 
before the face bath and a suitable 
lotion afterwards has a really won- 
derful effect in improving the com- 
plexion. The effect of a clean face, 
however, is itself altogether delight- 
ful. Such a bath tends to rest and 
refresh the bather and put her in a 
good temper. Many a bad complex- 
ion is due to neglect of a proper 
cleansing process. If more faces were 
kept really clean, a great improve- 
ment in the complexion would be no- 
ticed. 

race Cloth. — The hands themselves, 
in the judgment of many persons, 
are the most effective means of wash- 
ing other portions of the body. To 
those who prefer face cloths we sug- 
gest scrim as the most sanitary ma- 
terial. Scrim is porous and free from 
lint, so that the air circulates through 
it freely. It is so thin that it can be 
quickly washed and dried. 

The Toilet Sponge. — The wash rag 
and the sponge, while convenient and 
regarded by many as indispensable, 
are often sources 'of injury to the 
skin. Children, especially, are prone 
to take a sponge from dirty water 
and squeeze it dry without rinsing. 
The decaying organic matter caught 



448 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



in the pores of the sponge gives rise 
to certain acids and ferments very 
Injurious to the complexion. Both 
the sponge and the wash rag should 
be thoroughly cleansed and rinsed 
after use. To clean a sour sponge, 
put 1 teaspoonful each of ammonia 
and borax into a basin of warm wa- 
ter, wash the sponge, rinse in clean 
soft water and hang in the air, ex- 
posed to sunshine if possible, untU 
dry. 

TOILET SOAPS 

Soaps. — Pure soaps do not irritate 
the skin. There are two principal 
kinds of soaps: those confining free 
alkali in the form of potash or soda 
lye, and the so-called neutral or fatty 
soaps. The former increase the swell- 
ing and softening of the horny parts 
of the skin. When these are removed, 
they of course take the dirt with 
them. The latter are better adapted 
to persons of sensitive skin, although 
their detergent effects are not so 
marked. Among these are castile, 
glycerin, curd soaps, and the like. 
Medicated and highly colored or 
scented soaps should rarely be used, 
and we recommend purchasing for 
household use only well-known soaps 
which have an established reputation 
for purity and general satisfaction. 
It must be borne in mind that toilet 
preparations which may give good 
effects on one skin are sometimes in- 
jurious to another. Glycerin is said 
to burn some skins, and benzoin 
cannot be used by some persons. 
This shows how important it is for 
a. woman to know what ingredients 
are used in making up her toilet 
preparations. It is not always safe 
to " try " some compound, the con- 
tents of which are unknown, be- 
cause it is highly recommended by 
others. 

On the other hand, the difference 
in results obtained by two women 
may often be attributed to the dif- 
ference in the method of use. One 
woman will cleanse her face thor- 
oughly as above indicated, while the 



other will merely apply a cream or 
lotion when the skin may be covered 
with grime and the pores filled with 
dirt. The result may be to still fur- 
ther clog the pores and produce an 
eruption of pimples and blackheads. 
No preparation can give satisfactory 
results in the absence of absolute 
cleanliness. 

Toilet Soaps. — These soaps are dis- 
tinguished by the purity of their in- 
gredients, as almond oil, beef mar- 
row, refined lard, and the like. They 
are usually saponified without heat, 
and may be perfumed according to 
taste. Any neutral hard white soap 
may be used as a foundation for 
toilet soaps if prepared as follows: 

Shave the soap thin or run it 
through a meat cutter, and melt in 
a double boiler with rose water, 
orange-flower water, or otjier distilled 
water, and common salt, in the pro- 
portion of 6 pounds of soap to 1 pint 
each of rose water or orange-flower 
water and 2 ounces of salt. 

After boiling, allow the mixture to 
cool. Cut it into small squares with 
a cord or wire, and dry without ex- 
posing to the sun. When dry, melt it 
again down with the same proportion 
of rose water or orange-flower water. 
Strain, cool, and dry thoroughly in a 
warm oven. Now reduce it to pow- 
der and expose it to the air under a 
screen. Coloring matter and perfume 
may be added according to taste. 
Other methods of purifying common 
household soaps and recipes for 
standard popular toilet soaps are 
given below. 

Among the most popular toilet ar- 
ticles are honey, Windsor, borax, glyc- 
erin, and almond soaps, besides a 
multitude of soaps which derive their 
name from the various perfumes 
added, as cinnamon, orange flower, 
sandalwood, rose, musk, violet, citron, 
etc. 

Perfumed Soaps.— Soaps may be 
perfumed by adding a few drops of 
any essential oil, or a proportionately 
larger quantity of essences or per- 
fumed distilled waters to the saponi- 
fied mass while cooling, but before 



THE TOILET AND BATH 



449 



hard soap has become cool enough 
to set. If perfumes are added while 
the soap is too hot they tend to vola- 
tilize and escape with the steam; if 
the soap is too cold they cannot be 
readily incorporated. Ordinary soap 
may be perfumed by cutting it with 
alcohol or other spirits and adding 
the perfume before the mixture hard- 
ens; or by melting up the soap in a 
small quantity of water, adding the 
perfume, and evaporating the excess 
of water by very gentle heat in a 
double boiler. Or the soap may be 
reduced to shavings, moistened slight- 
ly with distilled water, and the per- 
fume incorporated by Ixneading or by 
the use of a mortar and pestle. 

Honey Soap. — This is common yel- 
low soap of good quality, to which 
has been added a certain proportion 
of pure strained honey and other in- 
gredients. Shave and melt in a dou- 
ble boiler 2 pounds of yellow soap. 
Add 4 oimces of palm oil, 4 ounces 
of honey, and 1 ounce of oil of cin- 
namon or other perfume according to 
taste. BoU for 10 minutes. While 
cooling stir vigorously with an egg 
beater to thoroughly emulsify the in- 
gredients. Cool. Ready for use as 
soon as hardened. 

Windsor Soap. — This is a trade 
term which denotes merely a pure 
white soap, the base of which is 10 
parts of any pure animal fat, as rec- 
tified suet or lard, and about 1 part 
of olive oil or bleached palm oil, to 
which are added any perfume, as the 
essential oil of bergamot. 

Almond Soap. — Almond oil may be 
saponified with caustic soda by a 
process similar to that of making 
other hard soaps. About IJ pounds 
of caustic soda will be required to 
saponify 7 pounds of almond oil. 
Mix the soda, lye, and almond oil 
gradually, boiling hot. Boil and stir 
until saponification is complete, add- 
ing more oil or lye as may be neces- 
sary. 

Or melt fine, pure, hard white soap, 
and add the essence of bitter almonds 
in the proportion of IJ per cent by 
weight. 



Borax Soap,— Dissolve 3 ounces of 
borax in 2 quarts of boiling water. 
Shave 2 pounds of pure white hard 
soap and add to the solution. Stir 
and simmer with gentle heat until 
the ingredients are thoroughly melted 
and mixed. When cold the soap is 
ready for use. 

Soap from Corn Meal or Oatmeal. 
— Both of these articles are useful 
for the toilet, having the property of 
making the skin smooth, soft, and 
white. In summer mix 2 teacupfuls 
of corn meal with 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered borax, and use as a cleans- 
ing agent. 

Or shave 12 ounces of neutral 
white hard soap, add enough water 
to keep it from burning, and melt 
with gentle heat. Stir in 4 ounces of 
cornstarch, and perfume according 
to taste. 

Or melt together 12 ounces of hard 
white soap, 5 ounces of palm soap, 
and 3 ounces of cocoanut oil or ma- 
rine soap; add 3 ounces of oatmeal 
or wheat bran. These ingredients 
should be incorporated with gentle 
heat in a double boiler. The soap 
will be improved if the mixture is 
thoroughly beaten with an egg beater 
to make a complete emulsion after it 
has been removed from the fire. 
Ready for use when cold and dry. 

Or cut fine 1 pound of castile or 
other hard white soap, add enough 
water to prevent it from burning, 
and melt with gentle heat. Stir 
while melting to form a thick, smooth 
paste of the consistency desired. Put 
this in a bowl to cool. Perfume with 
any essential oil or perfumed water, 
incorporating the perfume with an 
egg beater. Now stir in Indian meal 
until the paste thickens. This must 
be kept in a fruit jar or other cov- 
ered glass vessel, as it will spoil if 
exposed to the air. 

Soft Soap for the Toilet. — A liquid 
soap may be made for the toilet of 
sweet oil saponified with caustic pot- 
ash. Take of the sweet oil 7 parts; 
caustic potash, 1 part. Put these in- 
gredients in a double boiler with a, 
small quantity of rose water or other 



450 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



perfumed water. Beat the mixture 
with a spoon or an egg beater until 
a complete emulsion forms, and sim- 
mer until saponification takes place. 
Now add sufficient rose water to re- 
duce the mixture to any desired con- 
sistency. 

Marine or Salt-water Soap. — Dis- 
solve 8 ounces of caustic soda in 3 
quarts of boiling water to form a 
lye. Now melt with gentle heat 30 
ounces of cocoanut oil or cocoanut 
lard. Gradually add the lye, stir- 
ring constantly until saponification 
takes place. One ounce of fused 
Glauber's salts wiU cause the soap to 
harden. 

Camphor Soap. — Dissolve in a dou- 
ble boiler 1 pound of neutral hard 
white soap in 8 fiuid ounces of boil- 
ing water. Continue boiling until by 
evaporation the soap has the consist- 
ency of butter. Now add 6 fluid 
ounces of olive oil in which 1 dram 
of prepared camphor has been pre- 
viously mingled. Take the mixture 
from the stove and beat up with an 
egg beater until a complete emulsion 
forms. This is a valuable remedy for 
chaps and scratches. 

Citron Soap. — To 6 pounds of curd 
soap add | pound of attar citron, J 
ounce of verbena (lemon grass), 4 
ounces of attar bergamot, and 2 
ounces of attar lemon. 

Frangipani Soap. — ^To 7 pounds of 
light-brown curd soap add J ounce 
of civet, J ounce of attar neroli, IJ 
ounces of attar santal, J ounce of at- 
tar rose, and J ounce of attar viti- 
vert. 

Cinnamon Soap. — Add 3 ounces of 
palm-oil soap to 3 ounces of tallow 
soap, i ounce of water, 7 ounces of 
essence cinnamon, 2 ounces of essence 
bergamot, and 1 ounce of essence sas- 
safras. Stir in enough yellow ocher 
to color as desired. 

Sandalwood Soap. — To 7 pounds 
of curd soap, add 2 ounces Of attar 
bergamot and 7 ounces of attar san- 
tal. 

Sand Soap. — To 7 pounds of curd 
soap, add 7 pounds of marine soap, 
25 pounds of silver sand, 2 ounces of 



attar thyme, 3 ounces of attar cassia, 

2 ounces of attar caraway, and 2 
ounces of attar French lavender. 

Soap a la Kose. — Take 30 pounds 
of Castile soap, and add 20 pounds of 
tallow soap, sufficient water to melt, 

3 ounces of attar rose, 1 ounce of es- 
sence cinnamon, 2J ounces of essence 
bergamot, IJ ounces of vermilion, and 
1 ounce of essence cloves. 

Mnsk Soap. — Add 26 pounds of 
palm-oil soap to 30 pounds of tallow 
soap, 4 ounces of essence bergamot, 
5 ounces of powdered pale roses, 3} 
ounces of musk, and 4^ oimces of 
brown ocher. 

Tonqnin Soap. — Take 6 pounds of 
light-brown curd soap and 1 ounce 
of attar bergamot, and add i ounce 
of grain musk and 8 ounces of es- 
sence cloves. 

Wash Balls. — Any good toilet soap 
may be made into balls of any de- 
sired size by a process similar to 
making butter balls, i. e., by using 
two wooden paddles. The addition 
of starch helps to give the soap the 
right consistency. 

Melt 7 pounds of neutral white bar 
soap in distilled water or rose water 
sufficient to prevent burning. Add 1 
ounce of powdered starch and more 
water, if necessary, to form a stiff 
paste. If too much water is added, 
continue the heat until the excess of 
water evaporates. Stir in 8 ounces 
of powdered wheat starch or corn- 
starch, and add essence of almonds 
according to taste. Remove from 
the fire, thoroughly incorporate the 
materials with an egg beater, mix or 
knead with the hands, and make into 
balls of any desired size. 

UEBICATEI) SOAP 

Soaps are frequently used as the 
vehicle for various remedial agents, 
as sulphur, iodine, tar, and the like, 
for diseases of the skin. Also for 
disinfectants, as carbolic apid, chlo- 
rine, and others. Any neutral white 
hard soap may be medicated by being 
dissolved in water. The following are 
especially recommended : 



THE TOILET AND BATH 



451 



Sulphur Soap. — Shave 2 ounces of 
soft soap and add J ounce of flowers 
of sulphur and 3 fluid drams of 
proof spirits, which may be per- 
fumed and colored according to taste. 
Mix the ingredients thoroughly in 
an earthenware bowl or marble mor- 
tar. Sulphur is a valuable remedy 
in itch and other diseases of the 
skin. 

Iodine Soap. — Dissolve 1 pound of 
white castile soap shaved fine in 3 
fluid ounces of distilled water or rose 
water. Add 1 oiince of iodide of 
potassium. Put in a double boiler, 
melt, and mix by stirring. Iodine is 
a valuable remedy in scrofula and 
other diseases of the skin. 

Juniper -tar Soap. — Dissolve 4 
ounces of tar of the juniper tree in 
1 pound of almond oil or olive oil. 
Put on the fire in a double boiler, 
and add gradually v/eak soda lye, 
stirring constantly until saponifica- 
tion takes place. Tar is a valuable 
remedy in all kinds of skin diseases. 
This soap is really an ointment. It 
should be applied at night and 
washed away next morning. 

Carbolic - acid Soap. — Take 5 
pounds of fresh cocoanut oil or ma- 
rine soap, melt, and add S ounces of 
alcohol, 3 ounces of carbolic acid, 1 
ounce of caustic potash, and J ounce 
of almond oil. Stir imtil the ingre- 
dients are thoroughly incorporated, 
and cool in molds. 

Soap with Chlorine. — Shave 11 
ounces of castile soap, dry in warm 
oven, and reduce to a powder. Add 
1 ounce of fresh dry chloride of lime. 
Add a sufficient quantity of proof 
spirits to cut this mixture and reduce 
it to the consistency of dough. This 
soap must be kept from the air, 
which may be done by packing it in 
glass fruit jars with tight metal caps. 
It is especially valuable in the sick 
room and for nurses in contagious 
diseases. It also has the property of 
removing stains from the skin and 
making it white. 

Soap with Arsenic. — This is a 
paste made by mixing 12 ounces of 
carbonate of potash with 4 oimces 



each of white arsenic, white soap, 
and air-slaked lime, with sufficient 
water to reduce to the required con- 
sistency. Powdered camphor, | ounce, 
may also be added with advan- 
tage. 

Or mix white soap, 8 ounces; pow- 
dered lime, 3 ounces; arsenious acid, 
8 ounces; carbonate of potassa, 3 
ounces, and gum camphor, IJ ounces. 
Reduce the ingredients separately to 
powder and mix. These two arseni- 
cal soaps are poisonous, and should 
be labeled accordingly and kept out 
of the way of children and household 
pets. They are used as preservatives 
in preparing the skins of birds and 
other animals, and to keep them free 
from the attacks of insects. 

Bayberry Soap, or Myrtle Soap. — 
Dissolve 3J ounces of white potash in 
1 pint of water, and add 1 pound of 
melted myrtle wax or bayberry tal- 
low. Boil slowly and stir until the 
mixture saponifies. Add 3 table- 
spoonfuls of cold water containing a 
pinch of salt, and boil 5 or 6 minutes 
longer. Remove from the fire and 
when it is cool, but before it sets, 
perfume by adding 5 or 6 drops of 
any essential oil or oils, according to 
taste. This soap is valuable for all 
toilet purposes, for shaving, chaps, 
and all diseased conditions of the 
skin. It should not be used until it 
is thoroughly seasoned. The longer 
it is allowed to dry and season the 
better it becomes. 

Transparent Soap. — Any good 
white neutral soap may be rendered 
transparent by reducing it to shav- 
ings, adding one half its volume of 
alcohol, and setting the mixture in a 
warm place until the soap is dis- 
solved. When allowed to cool it has 
somewhat the appearance of rock 
candy. It may be perfumed and 
scented according to taste. 

Or shave 3^ ounces of good hard 
yellow soap and add 1 pint of alco- 
hol. Simmer with gentle heat until 
dissolved. Remove from the fire, add 
1 ounce of almond or other essence, 
and stir vigorously with an egg 
beater to make a complete emulsion. 



452 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Pour into molds to cool. This gives 
a very cheap, pure soap of good ap- 
pearance, as it is nearly transparent. 

THE HAirOS 

Nothing betrays lack of daintiness 
in personal care more than neglect 
of the hands and nails. Of course 
it is more difficult for some women to 
keep their nails clean and their hands 
soft, white, and free from blemishes 
than for others. But in the care of 
the hands immaculate cleanliness is 
imperative. They should never be 
washed except when it can be done 
thoroughly. Constantly rinsing them 
in cold water grinds the dirt in and 
ruins the texture of the skin, making 
it rough, coarse, and red. When ex- 
posed to hard usage, as in the rou- 
tine of housework, instead of fre- 
quently washing the hands in water, 
a few drops of oil should be rubbed 
into them. They should then be 
dusted over with talcum powder and 
wiped with a coarse towel. This will 
cleanse them and protect the flesh 
from growing callous. Lemon juice 
will remove stains. 

The hands should always be washed 
in tepid water, and a good soap is 
an absolute necessity. It is also im- 
portant that the water be soft. 
Avoid washing the hands frequently 
with cheap laundry soap, washing 
powders, soft soap, or other powerful 
detergents. They tend to roughen, 
redden, and chap the skin. The best 
soap is none too good for the toilet. 
There are many brands on the mar- 
ket which are known to be good, and 
it is better* not to experiment with 
those that are new and untried. Any 
hard, white, pure or neutral soap is 
suitable for the toilet. Hence it is 
not necessary to purchase special 
toilet soaps, which are usually expen- 
sive, however desirable they may 
seem to be. To test soap for toilet 
purposes, apply the tongue to it. If 
it contains free alkali, it will have a 
caustic or burning taste and should 
be avoided. Otherwise it is not likely 
to be injurious. 



In cold weather or when the hands 
are very dirty rub a little pure lard 
or cold cream over them, and after- 
wards wash them with soap and 
water in the usual way. This has a 
tendency to keep the skin from crack- 
ing or chapping. The use of gloves, 
especially when gardening, driving, or 
walking in svm or wind, helps to pre- 
serve the softness of the hands and 
keep them clean. Sprinkling the 
hands with orris root or talcimi pow- 
der before drawing on the gloves 
will coimteract excessive perspira- 
tion. 

Bedness and Burning. — These 
troubles are caused by defective cir- 
culation. Attention should be given 
to the general health, and as a pre- 
ventive measure the hands should 
be protected from exposure to the 
weather — especially in the winter — ^by 
the use of a muflf or by fur-lined 
gloves. Or two pairs of gloves may 
be worn, which will be found warmer 
than one pair lined. After the hands 
have been exposed to the cold they 
may be prevented from tingling by 
washing them in very warm water, 
and drying them carefully on a soft 
towel. The after effect will be a feel- 
ing of coolness, whereas the use of 
cold water causes a ^ow. 

Uolst Hands. — If the hands are 
constantly moist from too free per- 
spiration, bathe them frequently 
either in salt water, which acts as 
a stimulant or tonic, or in a solution 
of vinegar or lemon juice, which acts 
as an astringent. 

Or rub them with a mixture of 
powdered alum and tannic acid, both 
of which have astringent properties. 

Or a little of this mixture may be 
dusted inside the gloves. 

But care should be taken not to 
use acid or astringent cosmetics 
oftener than is necessary, as they 
tend to overwork the pores of the 
skin and to produce injurious after 
effects. 

To Bemove Stains from the 
Hands. — Substances recommended 
for removing stains from the hands 
are lemon juice, the juice of ripe 



THE TOtLEt AND BAftt 



45g 



tomatoes, sulphuric acid (oil of 
vitriol), chloride of lime, oxalic acid, 
fumes of sulphur, and various com- 
pounds of thfee. The following spe- 
cial directions may be noted: 

To Use Sulphuric Acid.— Dilute a 
few drops in 20 times its volume of 
water, and apply to stains with a 
brush. Take care this does not touch 
a cut on the flesh or fall upon fab- 
rics of woolen or cotton, as it will 
take out their color and eat holes 
in them. 

To ITse Oxalic Acid. — Make a weak 
solution of oxalic acid and water, 
and apply with a brush or rag. Take 
care this does not get into any sores 
and cuts, as it wUl inflame them. On 
healthy skin its action is as mild as 
lemon juice. 

Or dampen the stain and hold it 
over the fumes of an old-fashioned 
sulphur match, freshly lighted. Or 
burn a small piece of sulphur out of 
doors and hold the stain in the fumes. 
Care' must, of course, be taken not 
to burn the flesh or inhale the fumes 
of burning sulphur. 

The above are specially useful for 
fruit stains. 

To Remove Stubborn Stains. — Mix 
oxalic acid and cream of tartar in 
equal proportions, and keep the mix- 
ture in an old paper box among 
toilet articles. This box should be 
marked " Poison," and kept out of 
the reach of children. Wet the stain 
with warm water and sprinkle with 
this preparation, rubbing until the 
stain disappears. Then wash the 
hands with soap and rinse well. This 
will remove the most stubborn ink 
and dye stains. 

To Soften the Hands. — Keep on 
the toilet stand near the soap a dish 
of oatmeal, and rub it freely on the 
hands after washing. This will 
cleanse and soften the skin. 

Or use corn meal in the same man- 
ner. 

Or keep at hand a quantity of 
clean white sand. The artificial sort, 
made by crushing quartz or flint 
stone and sold for filters, is pref- 
erable to sea sand or ordinary sand, 



since it has sharper edges. Mix a 
handful of sand with hot soapsuds, 
and wash and rub the hands with 
this mixture for several minutes. 
The sand may be cleansed by pour- 
ing fresh water over it and draining 
through a filter. It can be used 
again and again. This method sof- 
tens and removes the calluses caused 
by housework. The hands may after- 
wards be rubbed with oatmeal or 
corn meal, as above, and treated with 
cold cream or some other simple 
lotion. 

Or a pair of white kid gloves may 
be turned inside out and brushed 
over with cold cream or any melted 
mixture of wax, oil, lard, or other 
unguent. These gloves may then be 
drawn on the hands and worn at 
night. 

Or the hands may be rubbed at 
night with cold cream, mutton tallow, 
or honey, and a large pair of gloves 
drawn on. In the morning the hands 
should be thoroughly washed with 
some good toilet soap, and rubbed 
with oatmeal or corn meal and any 
simple lotion. The following mix- 
tures are recommended to use with 
gloves at night to soften and whiten 
the hands: 

Put in a quart glass fruit jar J 
pound of grated or shaved castile 
soap. Pour over this J pint of alco- 
hol, and let stand in a warm place, 
shaking frequently until the soap is 
dissolved. Add 1 ounce of glycerin 
and oil of almonds, perfume with a 
few drops of any essential oil, and 
seal tightly. 

Or put J pound of grated castile 
or other hard white soap in a dou- 
ble boiler; pour over it 1 gill of olive 
oil, and dissolve with gentle heat. 
Add IJ ounces of mutton tallow, mix 
thoroughly, remove from the fire, 
and add 2 fluid ounces of alcohol and 
a few drops of any essential oil as 
perfume. 

Or shave together in a flat glass 
dish or on a marble slab 1 ounce of 
spermaceti, 1 ounce of white wax, 
and 1 ounce of gum camphor. Mix 
with olive oil to a stiff paste. 



454 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or mix 1 ounce of glycerin and J 
ounce of ammonia with J ounce of 
rose water. 

Chapped Hands. — Substances rec- 
ommended for cliapped hands may 
be distinguished as follows: solid un- 
guents, such as spermaceti and other 
forms of wax, lard, unsalted butter, 
mutton suet, tallow, and the like; 
liquid imguents, such as glycerin, 
yolk of egg, honey, almond oil, lin- 
seed oil, and olive oil; various sub- 
stances which have specific soothing 
properties, as borax, bitter almonds, 
bran (decoction of), balsam of fir, 
camphor, sal soda, carbolic acid, 
quince seed, raisins, oatmeal; various 
flavoring and coloring extracts and 
perfumes. 

The objects sought in using these 
substances are as follows: 

The solid and liquid unguents are 
employed to hold the specific reme- 
dial agent in suspension, and to give 
consistency to the mass so as to make 
it easier to apply them; also to pre- 
vent their speedy evaporation. The 
various remedial agents are selected 
according to their several properties 
and the results desired. These vary 
in their effects with different indi- 
viduals and also according to the 
condition of the skin. A little expe- 
rience will indicate which to employ 
under given conditions. Coloring ex- 
tracts and perfume may, of course, 
be used according to taste. With 
these thoughts in mind it is an easy 
matter to prepare a stock of emolli- 
ents suited to one's ideas and expe- 
rience, based upon a solid unguent 
if a paste or salve is desired, or upon 
a liquid unguent if a lotion is pre- 
ferred, and containing such remedial 
agents, coloring matter, etc., as are 
desired. 

Glycerin for the Hands. — Glycerin 
may be used pure or scented with 
any essential oil. Rub on the hands 
at night with the same motion as 
when washing them, either before or 
after the hands have been chapped, 
or apply immediately after tliey have 
been chilled by exposure. Soft cham- 
ois-skin gloves worn at night will 



prevent this and other preparations 
from making grease spots on bed 
linen. 

To soften and whiten the hands, 
use a mixture of two thirds glycerin 
and one third rose water. 

Or, to prepare glycerin paste for 
toilet use, put 1 ounce of any good 
transparent toilet soap in 4 ounces of 
soft water or rose water, and add 5 
ounces of glycerin. Dissolve all with 
gentle heat, stir in 20 ounces of ad- 
ditional glycerin, pour into a glass 
fruit jar, and when nearly cold per- 
fume with a few drops of any essen- 
tial oil. 

Or simmer with gentle heat in a 
double boiler 1 ounce of glycerin, 3 
ounces of olive oil, and 3 drams of 
spermaceti. Apply to the hands 
night and morning. 
""Or mix 3 ounces of glycerin, 1 yolk 
(of egg, and 30 grains of carbolic 
iacid, and beat up to an emulsion 
/with an egg beater. Rub into the 
/ skin several times daily. 
V Or simmer 1 dram of quince seed 
in i pint of boiling water for 10 
or 15 minutes; strain out the quince 
mucilage through a piece of cheese 
cloth, and to it add 1 ounce of glyc- 
erin, 1 ounce of borax, and 6 ounces 
of soft water or rose water. Apply 
to the hands two or three times a 
day. 

Bran for the Hands. — Boil a small 
quantity of bran in a linen bag. Put 
both the juice and the boiled bran in 
the washbowl, add warm or hot wa- 
ter, and wash the hands vrith or with- 
out soap. This is perhaps the best 
and simplest treatment for the red- 
ness, dryness, and roughness caused 
by housework and exposure. After 
washing, the hands may be rubbed 
with a few drops of honey or a lo- 
tion composed of J pound of honey, 
i pound of sal soda, and 1 pint of 
water. Mix well and heat without 
boiling. 

Linseed Oil for the Hands. — This 
is good for chapped hands, and also 
for burns and sprains. It has the 
advantage of being cheap and almost 
always available. 



THE TOILET AND BATH 



455 



• Honey for the Hands. — This may 
be used when the skin is dry, hard, 

( and rough. Moisten the hands and 
rub the honey in well. After a while 

I wash them thoroughly in bran water 
or some other liquid preparation, and 

\ they will be perfectly clean and soft. 
Camphor for Chapped Hands. — 
Camphor cakes or balls, to prevent 
chapped hands, may be made as fol- 
lows; 

Melt 3 drams of spermaceti and 4 
drams of white wax. Add 1 ounce of 
almond oil. Moisten 3 drams of 
camphor with spirits of wine, . and 
mix up all together. Run this into 
molds or make up into balls in the 
same manner as butter balls are 
made. 

Or, for an ointment, melt together 
gum camphor, 3 drams; beeswax, 3 
drams; olive oil, 2 ounces. Apply 
at night, and wear chamois -skin 
gloves. 

Other Remedies for Chapped 
Hands. — Mix white wax, 4 drams; 
olive oil, 2 drams; spermaceti, 18 
grains. 

Or unsalted butter, J pound; rose 

* water, 1 wineglassf ul ; yolks of eggs, 
2; honey, 1 tablespoonful. Mix and 
stir in finely ground oatmeal to make 
a paste of the consistency of butter. 
Apply at night and wear gloves. 

Or use almond paste instead of 
oatmeal in the last. 
/ Or mix equal parts of white piut- 
ton tallow, unsalted butter, beeswax, 

' and stoned raisins. Simmer until the 

I raisins are dried up but not burned. 

' Strain into molds to cool. This prep- 

1 aration smarts chapped hands, but 

\ quickly heals them. 

Camphor Ice. — Oil of sweet al- 
monds, 1 ounce; spermaceti, 2 
ounces; white wax, 1 ounce; cam- 
phor, i ounce. Melt these ingredi- 
ents in a double boiler, and pour in 
molds of proper size and form. 

Powder for the Hands. — Common 
starch reduced to powder by grind- 
ing with a knife or in a pestle is a 
good substitute for talcum powder 
for the hands. This is always at 
hand. When taking the hands out of 



suds or dishwater, or after washing 
them when they have been chilled 
by exposure, rinse them thoroughly, 
wipe them, and apply the starch 
while they are still damp, covering 
the whole surface. This is cheap, 
convenient, and easy to try. 

MAKICTTBINO 

Fingfer Kails. — The condition of 
the finger nails is one of the best 
tests of the care given to the toilet. 
Well-groomed finger nails are, as far 
as they go, a mark of refinement. 
Needless to say, the toilet for any 
social occasion is not complete until 
the nails have been thoroughly defined, 
trimmed, and, if possible, manicured. 
Young men are usually the worst 
offenders in this respect, and they 
would often have cause to blush if 
they should hear the comments 
caused by their appearances in so- 
ciety with finger naUs " decorated in 
mourning." 

Machinists and others whose work 
tends to cause the finger nails to be- 
come grimy will find.it helpful to in- 
sert a little lard or cold cream under 
the nails each morning. Housewives 
will find this a good plan when 
blacking stoves. 

The most useful article for use on 
the nails is a small orange stick, 
which can be obtained for a trifle at 
any drug store. With this the nails 
can be cleaned each time the hands 
are washed and the skin which ad- 
heres to the nails carefully pushed 
back. This may also be done with 
a dry towel. It will prevent the skin 
from cracking about the roots of the 
nails and forming hangnails. This 
method practiced daily will greatly 
improve the general appearance of 
the hands. 

The nails should never be bitten. 
By this practice the appearance of 
the hands may be spoiled for life. 
To prevent children from biting their 
nails, rub a little bitter aloes on the 
tips of the fingers. If this does not 
effect a cure, tie glove tips upon 
them until the habit is given up. 



456 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Ingrowing Nails. — The finger nails 
do not often grow in, but when this 
happens a notch cut in the middle of 
the naU wiU have a tendency to draw 
it up from the sides. 

Uanicuxing the Nails. — Special 
care and training must be bestowed 
upon the nails, as their condition in 
regard to shape, color, and texture 
of skin makes or mars the loveliest 
hand. 

It is within the power of any wom- 
an possessed of average ability to be- 
come her own mEinicure. It takes 
only a few minutes each day to put 
the nails in perfect condition, and 
properly kept nails are indications of 
refinement. A manicure outfit will 
cost two or three dollars. Buy good 
instruments to begin with. You wUl 
need a flexible file, emery boards, 
buffer, orange sticks, cuticle knife, 
curved needle-pointed scissors, nail 
scissors, some red paste and white 
nail powder, and a good bleach of 
glycerin, rose water, and oxalic acid. 
Begin by shaping the nail with the 
file. When you* have finished one 
hand, the fingers should be dipped 
into a bowl of lukewarm water, into 
which has been poured a few drops 
of some pleasant antiseptic as lister- 
ine or peroxide of hydrogen. Let 
them remain in this some time to 
soften the cuticle, and then dry them 
with a soft towel. 

With the point of the orange stick 
clean the nail, dipping the stick in 
the bleach if this is necessary. 
Loosen the sMn around the nail with 
the cuticle knife. This skin should 
be lifted up, and not pushed down 
and back, as the latter movement 
cracks and splits the cuticle. Keep 
dipping the knife in the water, as it 
helps to lift up the cuticle, which 
must be well raised before it is cut. 
Now use the cuticle scissors, and try 
to trim the cuticle in one piece, oth- 
erwise you are likely to have ragged 
edges and hangnails. 

Be extremely careful about this 
special part of the treatment, for the 
nail may be altogether spoiled by a 
too zealous use of the cuticle knife 



and scissors. Use your ' red paste 
sparingly, and rub it well into the 
nails with the palm of your hand. It 
is better to dip the fingers in the wa- 
ter again and dry thoroughly, as you 
cannot polish a wet naU. Cut off a 
hangnail with the naU scissors, and 
smooth the edge of the nail with the 
emery boards. Dip the buffer or pol- 
isher in the naU powder. Place the 
center of the buffer on the naU, and 
rub slightly. 

In a short time you will find it 
very easy to manicure your own nails. 
To. Whiten the Nails. — First 
cleanse and soften the nails by soak- 
ing in soft water in which a little 
pure toilet soap hjis been dissolved, 
and then dip the fingers into a mix- 
ture composed of 2 dreims of diluted 
sulphuric acid, 1 dram of tincture of 
myrrh, and 4 ounces of soft water. 
Rinse with clear water and polish. 

Or, to remove stains and discolor- 
ations, moisten a chamois buffer or 
a piece of chamois in a mixture of 
lemon juice and water, or vinegar, 
and water. Dip it into powdered 
pimiice stone or putty powder, and 
apply carefully until the stain is re- 
moved. But rub as little as possible, 
and do not use these substances 
oftener Uan is necessary, as their 
constant use tends to make the nails 
thick and coarse. 
/ To Toughen the Nails.— Mix 8 
' grains of pure rectified tar with J 
I ounce of cold cream, rectified lard, 
i or suet Apply liberally to the nails 
at night and draw on a pair of loose 
\ gloves. 

To Polish the Nails.— Apply, with 
a chamois buffer, a mixture of 1 
ounce each of finely powdered emery 
and cinnabar, softened with olive oil, 
almond oil, or the essential oil of bit- 
ter almonds. 

Diseases of the Nails. — Splinters 
under the nails which cannot easily 
be drawn out by pincers may be re- 
moved by softening the nail with pot- 
ash lye diluted with an equal quan- 
tity of water. Apply this with a 
brush, then scrape the nail untQ the 
splinter is laid bare and can be re- 



THE TOILET AND BATH 



457 



moved. To check the action of the 
lye when necessary rinse with clear 
water and apply vinegar or lemon 
juice. In all cases, however, when 
foreign bodies get under the nails, it 
is best to consult a physician. 



The white spots which superstitious 
people, half in fun, sometimes say 
are produced by having told lies, are 
caused by air getting under the nails 
during their growth and being con- 
fined there. 



CHAPTER XVII 

TOILET PREPARATIONS 

TOILET PREPARATIONS— SIMPLE HOME PREPARATIONS— ALMOND 
MILK CREAM AND PASTE— COLD CREAM— AROMATIC VINEGAR- 
TOILET POWDERS— ROUGE— ESSENCES AND PERFUMES 



TOILET FBEPABATIOKS 

Recipes for the Toilet. — The enor- 
mous array of mixtures of all sorts 
for the toilet evinces equally the 
popular interest in these recipes, and 
the whims, caprices, and vagaries of 
their makers. At first glance the 
number and yariety of recipes rec- 
ommended by standard authorities 
is bewildering. A careful study of 
these preparations, however, and their 
tabulation in the form of charts for 
comparison, discloses the fact that 
the number of remedial agents con- 
tained in them is relatively small. 
The various forms in which these 
recipes appear are merely so many 
attempts to attract the notice of tlie 
public, whether by appealing to its 
taste or its convenience. The same 
ingredients, for example, may be 
compounded so as to form washes, 
lotions, emulsions, creams, or pastes, 
according to the degree of dilution 
preferred by the individual user. 
Standard recipes differ also by vary- 
ing the proportions of the same in- 
gredients recommended. Very often 
these ingredients wUl be the same 
with the exception of the perfumes. 
Needless to say the latter may be 
varied to suit the preference of the 
user. 

There are, of course, certain stand- 
ard types of toilet preparations. 
These vary according to the different 



bases, remedial agents, and the kind 
and amount of liquids employed for 
diluting them. A few words on each 
of these subjects wiU assist the read- 
er in making a satisfactory selection. 

To Save Honey. — Practical sugges- 
tions and instructions for preparing 
all kinds of toilet preparations are 
of universal interest and value. Many 
toilet preparations made according 
to recipes given in this section are 
widely advertised for sale. The cost 
of advertising these articles and plac- 
ing them upon the market is usually 
from SO to 80 per cent of their retail 
price. The purchaser has to pay all 
this in addition to the original cost 
of the ingredients and the labor of 
compounding. Moreover, it is impos- 
sible to tell what the ingredients are 
or whether they are of good quality. 
Very often they are injurious and 
even poisonous. Adulteration and 
substitution are very common. Any- 
one can save from 75 to 95 per cent 
on the cost of these by compounding 
them himself. He will know exactly 
what the preparations are composed 
of, and also that the ingredients are 
fresh and of good quality.' 

To Hake Honey. — Some persons, 
however, have little skill in com- 
pounding, or have not the time or 
the proper facilities for the work. 
While anyone can prepare these arti- 
cles, it is, of course, true that a per- 
son may become very expert by giv- 



458 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



459 



ing special time and attention to 
them, and especijilly by the practice 
of making up prescriptions in fairly 
large quantities. Hence anyone who 
has an aptitude for work of this kind 
can make a good deal of money by 
preparing these articles in quantity, 
putting them up neatly in jars, bot- 
tles, boxes, etc., and affixing to them 
neat printed labels. These can be 
sold on shares at the local stores, or 
bought by friends and neighbors, or 
peddled from house to house by em- 
ploying young people on a, commis- 
sion basis. Mail-order business can 
also be worked up for the sale of 
these preparations. The recipes are 
taken from the formulas of manufac- 
turers of standard toilet articles. 
Such preparations also make a very 
popular bazaar at a church fair. The 
work of compounding them in such 
cases can be delegated to a com- 
mittee. 

Bases. — The standard bases for 
solid and semifluid preparations, as 
pastes, creams, and emulsions, are 
white wax, spermaceti, suet, lard, 
yolk or white of egg, and various 
soaps. 
/Animal fats, as lards, suet, and 
Mlie like, must be specially refined and 
prepared for toilet purposes. This 
may be done at home by melting and 
simmering the fat slowly with gentle 
heat, and straining it through linen 
one or more times. On the farm 
these animal fats are easily obtained 
and consequently inexpensive, but 
unless alcohol or other preservatives 
are mixed with them they tend to 
become rancid. Hence small quanti- 
ties at a time should be prepared, 
and care should be taken not to em- 
ploy such preparations when they 
become in the least degree sour. The 
same caution applies to compounds 
containing the white or yolk of eggs 
and honey. 

White wax, spermaceti, castile and 
other soaps as bases are free from 
these objections, and recipes contain- 
ing them are to be preferred when 
such ingredients can conveniently be 
obtained. In compounding recipes 



■ having these solid unguents as bases 
they are first melted slowly with gen- 

\ tie heat, and while in a melted con- 
dition the other ingredients are 
\ added. They may also be "cut" or 
dissolved in alcohol and spirits. 
y Liquid Bases. — Certain toilet prepa- 
rations, as emulsions, lotions, washes, 
and the like, omit the above solid3 
or employ them only in small quanti- 
ties, and in their place use certain 
oils and other liquids as bases. The 

\ principal liquid bases are almond oil, 
olive oil, glycerin, honey, and tho 
like. These have a double value: they 
tend to soothe and also to feed the 

i skin. They are, therefore, among the 

\ most deservedly popular of all ingre- 
N^ients. 

Other Bases. — Gum arable, quince 
seed, and white paste are also em- 
ployed as bases when a certain de- 
gree of adhesiveness is desired, as in 
the preparation of bandoline and 
pomades for the hair and beard. 
The quince seeds are prepared by 
simmering them gently in rose water 
until they form a stiff jell. This 
must then be strained through a fine 
sieve to remove the hulls. Gum 
arable may be dissolved in warm 
water. 

Bases of Powders. — Wheat starch 
is the standard base for homemade 
toilet powders, but other materials 
often employed are fuller's earth, 
French chalk, and pearl white. Al- 
mond meal, like almond oil, has the 
double property of serving as a base 
and also as a remedial agent. 

Bemedial Agents. — ^This term is 
employed to describe certain ingre- 
dients used in toilet preparations 
which have specific curative proper- 
ties. Some of the bases already men- 
tioned, notably almonds, fall also un- 
der this heading. Among others of 
especial value may be noted sub- 
stances which soothe and feed the 
skin, as the yolk of egg, honey, and 
cocoa butter; substances which are 
mildly astringent, as lemon juice, 
alum, spirits, and benzoin; and other 
specifics, as glycerin, camphor, and 
sulphur, whose action varies with dif- 



460 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ferent persons. These agents are in 
most cases of a harmless character 
except when otherwise stated. 

Mineral Agents. — The use of min- 
eral drugs in toilet preparations can- 
not be too earnestly deprecated. In 
many cases they are immediately 
harmful, and defeat the very object 
for which they are intended, as in the 
case of bismuth, which frequently 
blackens the skin. All compounds 
and preparations containing lead in 
any form are positively dangerous 
and sometimes give rise to blood poi- 
son. These mineral compounds are 
often recommended as heroic reme- 
dies, to be tried when other measures 
have failed; as, for example, for the 
removal of obstinate freckles, moles, 
pimples, and similar disfigurements. 
They are very common in hair dyes 
and pomades, and are too often em- 
ployed under delusion, caused by the 
misleading statements of friends, 
beauty doctors, or others, and by 
publishers of otherwise reputable 
books. 

Two statements we desire to ear- 
nestly make and stand by: first, 
mineral drugs in toilet preparations 
are dangerous; and, secondly, they 
are not necessary. The simple and 
harmless remedies hereinafter given, 
if patiently and skillfully applied ac- 
cording to directions, will, in due 
course of time, accomplish the results 
intended, and develop the most per- 
fect complexion that the individual 
is capable of. 

The use of mineral drugs, on the 
other hand, whatever the immediate 
benefits derived from them may ap- 
pear to be, will in the end defeat its 
own object by producing after ef- 
fects ruinous to the complexion, and 
the last state of the deluded indi- 
vidual who employs them will indeed 
be worse than the first. 

Diluents or Vehicles. — Distilled 
water, various perfumed toilet wa- 
ters, as rose water, together with al- 
cohol, rectified spirits of wine, and 
other spirits, are the liquids most 
often recommended for diluting 
toilet preparations to the consistency 



of creams, lotions, washes, and the 
like. 

Distilled water may be prepared at 
home by attaching a tube to the 
spout of the teakettle, immersing as 
much of its length as possible in a 
basin of water shielded from the fire 
and kept cold, if convenient, with ice, 
and collecting the condensed steam 
at the opposite end of the tube in 
a fruit jar or other receptacle. The 
object of this process is to remove all 
impurities held in suspension, as lime 
and other minerals which are found 
in hard water; also vegetable and 
animal matter and other impurities. 
In winter clean snow, melted, is 
equivalent to distilled water. Rain 
water collected in a clean vessel is 
a good substitute. The ordinary wa- 
ter supply, softened if necessary by 
means elsewhere recommended, wiU 
usually answer every purpose. Elder- 
flower water, orange-flower water, 
and other perfumed toilet waters are 
often recommended, but rose water 
or plain distilled or soft water may 
be used as a substitute, if preferred, 
in all cases. 

Perfumes. — Substances used as per- 
fumes commonly occur in severed 
forms, i. e., the attar or essential oil, 
the essence, and the tincture or the 
" water," depending upon the degree 
of dilution. They can also be ob- 
tained in powdered form, as in 
sachets. The most convenient form 
in which to purchase perfumes is the 
otto or attar, i. e., the essential oil. 
This may be purchased in small 
quantity and employed according to 
taste, a few drops being sufBcient to 
perfume most toilet preparations in 
quantities suitable for domestic use. 
The scent of these perfumes is fa- 
miliar to most persons, but they can 
easily be inspected at a drug store 
and a selection can be made. It is 
not necessary, of course, to purchase 
or have on hand each and all the 
different perfumes recommended. In 
fact, perfumes are now used very 
much less than they were formerly, 
and a strong scent of cologne, musk, 
or other odor about an individual is 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



461 



regarded as a mark of vulgarity. 
Many ladies who enjoy perfumes 
compromise by selecting any particu- 
lar odor they prefer, as violet, rose, 
lavender, or heliotrope, and employ 
this exclusively in the toilet. Any 
of the essential oils may be substi- 
tuted freely for the others, and the 
quantity may be varied to suit the 
taste as determined by experiment. 

Coloring Matters. — The standard 
coloring matters employed for lip 
salve, rouge, cold cream, and the like 
are as follows: for rose pink or red, 
alkanet root or dragon's blood; for 
yellow or orange, palm oil or annotto; 
for blue, finely powdered indigo; for 
green, spinach leaves. Other coloring 
matter, as the various lakes and 
other mineral substances, are inten- 
tionally omitted. 

Utensils Required. — The utensils 
required in compounding the follow- 
ing recipes are usually at hand in 
every household. A small pair of 
druggist's scales or balances is a 
great convenience, and will be found 
useful in many ways. A graduate 
glass, marked for the measurement 
of fluid ounces, is also useful, and 
can be obtained of any druggist or 
dealer in photographic materials. A 
glass of the size of 4 or 8 ounces may 
be obtained at from 25 cents or less 
to 50 cents. 

In addition to the above a small 
spatula or thin, broad-bladed, flexi- 
ble knife, a small mortar and pestle, 
and one or two short pieces of glass 
tube or rod for stirring, wiU be 
found convenient. Ordinary porce- 
lain-lined saucepans are the best re- 
ceptacles in which to melt and mix 
the necessary ingredients. A double 
boiler is convenient, but if this can- 
not be had, a large saucepan may be 
partly filled with water, and a small- 
er one containing the ingredients to 
be melted placed within it so that 
the water will reach part way up the 
sides. A few nails or other solid ob- 
jects placed in the bottom of the 
large saucepan will raise the small 
one so as to permit the water to cir- 
culate freely beneath it. In this way 



the ingredients may be melted with- 
out danger of burning or sticking to 
the pan. Care must be taken that 
the water in the outer saucepan does 
not all evaporate or boil up and flood 
the inner one. ^ 

^ Directions for Compounding. — ^^ 
' First place the solid or liquid con- 
stituents used as a base in a double 
boiler or saucepan, as above sug- 
gested. Simmer with a gentle heat, 
but without boiling. When the solids 
are melted and the mass is warm 
enough to flow freely, first put in the 
coloring matter, if any, and simmer 
until the color has been fully incor- 
porated. Next strain through linen 
while still hot. ^-y 

Return the mixture to the double 
boiler, and while hot add such spe- 
cific remedial agents as the oil of 
bitter almonds, honey, glycerin, ben- 
zoin, lemon juice, alum, etc. 

If rose water or distilled water is 
to be added to form an emulsion, lo- 
tion, or wash, take the mixture oflf 
the fire and add the water gradually, 
stirring briskly with a spoon or egg 
beater to insure forming a perfect 
emulsion. The last ingredient to be 
added is always the perfume, and 
this should be done after the mixture 
has cooled somewhat, but before it 
sets. Perfumes are volatile, and if 
added to a heated mixture are likely 
to be wasted by evaporation. '^^ 

Compounding of Pastes and Pow- 
ders. — The above instructions apply 
especially to liquid compounds. The 
solid constituents of pastes may be 
rubbed together in a mortar, and 
kneaded with the hands or with a 
spatula on a marble or metal slab, a 
clean piece of zinc, or a kneading 
board. In some cases an egg beater 
can be employed if the consistency of 
the mixture will allow it. Almonds 
for pastes may be reduced in a mor- 
tar to the proper consistency by 
moistening them vrith rose water and 
grinding them with a pestle, or by 
heating them with water in a sauce- 
pan until the mass assumes a granu- 
lar consistency, somewhat similar to 
cooked oatmeal. Both methods are 



462 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



employed, but the former is the more 
common. The materials for toilet 
powders may be compounded by sim- 
ple mixture in a mortar or other suit- 
able receptacle. 

General Suggestions. — We would 
suggest to the novice that it will be 
well to first prepare a small quantity 
of some good toilet powder (prefera- 
bly based on wheat starch), a good 
cold cream, and, if desired, one of 
the liquid emulsions or lotions as a 
' wash for the face and hands. 

Other preparations, as pastes, 
rouge, aromatic vinegar, and the like, 
may be made up as occasion de- 
mands. Persons experienced in these 
matters will, of course, need no sug- 
gestions. 

Tables. — A number of tables have 
been prepared which contain practi- 
cally all the standard recipes for the 
toilet in use by beauty doctors and 
others in all parts of the world. An 
exception to this statement has al- 
ready been noted; all recipes contain- 
ing preparations of lead and other 
injurious mineral drugs have been 
absolutely excluded. A list of the 
different ingredients is given at the 
left of the table, and the name of 
each preparation is quoted at the 
top. Under each name and opposite 
the names of the different ingredients 
will be found the amount of each to 
be employed. General directions for 
compounding the following recipes 
have already been given. Special di- 
rections follow each table when nec- 
essary. 

SIMPLE HOKE FBEFABATIONS 

The following simple homemade 
preparations are suggested in addi- 
tion to the more elaborate receipts 
given later: 

To Kemove Freckles. — Prepara- 
tions recommended for the removal 
of freckles are usually of an acid 
character containing alum, lemon 
juice, horse-radish, buttermilk, and 
the like; also mineral drugs, as salts 
of lead, merciiry, bismuth, and oth- 
ers. It cannot be too clearly stated 



that all such preparations are dis- 
tinctly injurious to the complexion, 
and their frequent use is not to be 
recommended. Most young persons 
of light complexion are annoyed by 
freckles, but these ordinarily pass 
away in later life, and the wisest pos- 
sible course is to pay little attention 
to them and allow nature to effect a 
cure. The application of prepara- 
tions advertised to remove freckles, 
the ingredients of which are un- 
known, should be avoided lest they 
contain bismuth, which is liable to 
blacken the skin, or lead or mercury, 
which are active mineral poisons. 
The following recipes, the active 
principles of which are principally 
animal or vegetable acids, are less in- 
jurious; but it must be borne in 
mind that all cosmetics of an as- 
tringent nature do their work by 
contracting the pores, which thus be- 
come weakened and in time are un- 
able to discharge their natural func- 
tions. The result may be, in later 
life, wrinkles and sallowness, and the 
last state of the complexion may be 
distinctly worse than the first. 

Grate a fresh horse-radish root very 
iine, cover with fresh buttermilk, and 
let stand over night. Strain through 
cheese cloth, and wash the face 
night and morning with the resulting 
liquor. 

Or squeeze the juice of a lemon 
into half a tumbler of water, and use 
two or three times daUy as a face 
wash. 

Or dissolve in lemon juice as much 
sugar as it will hold, and apply with 
a soft brush frequently until the 
freckles disappear. 

Or apply a lotion containing glyc- 
erin, but this is hardly a specific. 

Or mix 2 ounces of lemon juice 
with 1 dram of confectioner's sugar 
or powdered rock candy and J dram 
of powdered borax. Let stand for 
4 or 5 days, shaking occasionally, and 
apply with a camel's-hair brush two 
or three times a day. 

Or to 1 pint of distilled soft 
water add 1 dram of sal ammoniac 
and i ounce Of cologne. Rub on the 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



463 



face and hands two or three times 
daily. 

Or dissolve in 4 drams of rose wa- 
ter 1 dram of muriate of ammonia, 
and apply two or three times a day 
with a camel's-hair brush. 

Or put in a double boiler 1 ounce 
of grated Venice soap and 1 ounce 
of pure soft water (or distilled wa- 
ter) ; melt with gentle heat and con- 
tinue the heating until the water is 
evaporated and only the melted soap 
remains. Remove from the fire, and 
stir in i ounce of lemon juice, J 
ounce of oil of bitter almonds, J 
ounce of deliquidated oil of tartar, 
and 3 drops of oil rhodium. This is 
said to be a recipe of the celebrated 
Mme. de Maintenon, the mistress of 
Louis XIV of France. 

Or this mixture can be prepared 
by grating the soap, pouring over it 
the lemon juice and other ingredi- 
ents, exposing it to direct sunlight, 
and shaking occasionally until it is of 
the right consistency. Apply to the 
face at night. 

Or mix J pint of tincture of tolu, 
J pint of tincture of benzoin, and J 
ounce of oil of rosemary. Put a tea- 
spoonful of this mixture in one 
fourth tumblerful of pure soft water, 
and apply to the face with a soft 
sponge two or three times a day. 

Or put in a glass fruit jar or bot- 
tle 6 ounces of fresh oxgall. Add 3 
ounces of rock candy, 2 ounces of 
rock salt, IJ scruples of camphor, 1 
dram of borax, and li scruples of 
burned alum. ^But remember that 
this is an heroic remedy.) Apply with 
a brush or sponge at night, and wash 
the face thoroughly next morning. 

Or mix 2 ounces each of aqua am- 
monia, sweet oil, and limewater. 

But none of these preparations can 
be regarded as desirable lotions for 
regular or frequent use. 

Cucumber Milk. — Slice three or 
four large cucumbers with the skin 
on, add i pint of water, boil, stir to 
a soft pulp, cool, and strain. Mix 
IJ ounces of this cucumber juice, IJ 
ounces of 95 per cent alcohol, and J 
ounce of grated cagtile so^p- Let 



stand in a warm place over night; 
next day add ^ ounces more of the 
cucimiber juice, 1 ounce of oil of 
sweet almonds, 30 drops of tincture 
of benzoin, and 5 grains of boracic 
acid. Shake well before using, and 
apply to the face two or three times 
a day with a soft cloth or sponge. 

Uilk for the Skin. — New milk, 
skimmed milk, and buttermilk each 
possess properties peculiar to it- 
self, and they all make useful and 
simple washes having a general emol- 
lient action on the skin. If used 
daily they tend to make the skin soft, 
smooth, and white, and to preserve it 
from the effects of exposure to 
weather. Buttermilk is useful for 
freckles and acne, and relieves itch- 
ing and local irritations of the skin. 
Pure, fresh cream is a simple and 
effective preventive of chapped hands 
and lips, and is excellent to cure 
these evils. 

Milk as a cosmetic may be im- 
proved by infusing in it freshly 
grated horse-radish, or infusing in 
new milk or buttermilk a quantity of 
flowers of sulphur. These are useful 
remedies for freckles and other dis- 
colorations and slight eruptions of 
the skin. 

Or mix flowers of sulphur with a 
little new milk and let stand an hour 
or two to settle. Pour off the milk 
from the sediment, and rub well into 
the skin before washing. This mix- 
ture is for immediate use only, and 
must be prepared daily. It may be 
prepared at night with evening milk 
and used the next morning, but not 
afterwards. Two or three table- 
spoonfuls are all that need be pre- 
pared at a time. 

Or boil 1 cupful of fine Scotch oat- 
meal — not breakfast food — ^in 1 pint 
of boiling water until it forms a. 
clear liquid. Use a double boiler, or 
place the saucepan containing the 
oatmeal in an open kettle or pan of 
boiling water to prevent sticking or 
burning. Strain the clear liquid 
through a cloth, boil again, and 
strain a second time. Add rose wa- 
ter, elder-flower water, or orange- 



464 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



flower water until the liquor has the 
consistency of milk. Add a few 
drops of your favorite perfume, and 
bottle for use. 

Lemon Juice. — Dilute fresh lemon 
juice with five or six times its volume 
of pure soft water. This, however, 
should not be used too frequently on 
account of its acid quality and tend- 
ency to impair the work of the pores 
of the skin. It may, however, be 
used on occasion to relieve itching or 
local irritation. 

Or mix equal parts of lemon juice, 
toilet water, and alcohol. Let stand 
over night, pour off the clear liquid, 
and strain through silk or linen. 

Kalydor. — Dissolve 2 drams of 
tincture of benzoin in 1 pint of rose 
water, and use as a face wash for the 
complexion. 

Magnesia Cream. — Mix fine pow- 
dered magnesia with rose water to a 
thin cream, dip the face in warm wa- 
ter to open the pores, apply a glyc- 
erin lotion, and afterwards apply the 
magnesia cream. Let dry and re- 
move with a soft towel. 

Or dissolve fuller's earth in water, 
stir well, then let it settle, and use 
once or twice daily. 

Honey. — Honey is a favorite in- 
gredient in various lotions under the 
name of "honey water," "balsam of 
honey," and the like. The term 
" honey water " is also applied to 
certain combinations of perfumes 
that do not, in fact, contain honey. 

To prepare honey water from 
honey, put in a 2-quart fruit jar 4 
ounces of pure white honey with J 
oimce of fresh grated lemon peel, i 
ounce each of calamayta, benzoin, and 
storax, I ounce of cloves, and J ounce 
of nutmeg. Add 2 ounces each of 
rose water and elder-flower water and 
13 fluid ounces of 95 per cent alcohol. 
Let stand 3 or 4 days, shaking fre- 
quently, run through a filter, and bot- 
tle for use. 

Or, for balsam of honey, mix with 
gentle heat 8 ounces of pure white 
honey and 2 ounces of best quality 
glycerin. Let stand until cool, stir in 
^ fluid ounces of 9S per cent alcohol. 



and add 10 drops of the essence of 
ambergris. 

Glycerin. — ^When pure, glycerin is 
a colorless viscid liquid, having a 
sweet taste and without odor. All 
the ordinary fats contain glycerin, 
which is produced by treating animal 
fats with alkalies, such as caustic 
soda or potash, as is done in the 
manufacture of soap. Glycerin is a 
by-product of soap factories. It may 
also be produced by treating fats 
with superheated steam, as is done in 
the manufacture of candles. Hence 
glycerin is also a by-product of can- 
dle factories. 

Glycerin mixes freely with water, 
and pure glycerin absorbs about one 
half its own weight from the atmos- 
phere. It is an excellent solvent, and 
is an important ingredient of po- 
mades, toilet soaps, and cosmetics. 
Glycerin is recommended as a lotion 
for irritation of the skin and for 
itching; also as a preventive against 
sunburn, chaps, and redness from 
exposure to the weather. A prepa- 
ration of 1 ounce of glycerin to 19 
ounces of pure soft water is about 
right for regular use as a face wash, 
and is an excellent vehicle in which 
to dissolve various remedies. 

Or 1 ounce of glycerin to 9 ounces 
of water may be used for chapped 
hands and lips, or whenever a strong 
solution is desired. 

Borax. — Dissolve 5 drams of borax 
in 1 pint of pure soft or distilled wa- 
ter, and use as a wash for sore gums 
or nipples, boils, or any other irrita- 
tion of the skin or mucous mem- 
brane. 

Or combine borax with glycerin in 
the proportion of 6 drams of borax 
and IJ ounces of pure glycerin; add 
16 ounces of rose water. This may 
be used regularly as a face wash. 

Or mix j ounce of powdered borax 
with 1 ounce of pure glycerin and 16 
ounces of camphor oU. Apply to the 
face with a soft cloth or sponge two 
or three times a day; let dry, and 
rinse with clear water. 

Or to 1 ounce of glycerin add 3 
ounces of fresh 16non juice, 1 pint 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



465 



of pure distilled water, and 1 pint of 
rose water. Apply to the face sev- 
eral times a day and let dry before 
rinsing. 

Lotions for Tan or Sunburn. — 
These are based principally on oil of 
almonds, with the addition of castile 
soap and rock candy, and contain 
various remedial agents, including 
astringents, as alum and lemon juice, 
also benzoin, tincture of tolu, tartar 
oil, ox gall, and the like. They are 
diluted usually with alcohol or any 
perfumed toilet water, for which 
plain distilled or soft water may be 
substituted. And they may be per- 
fumed with any essential oil or es- 
sence preferred. Apply any of these 
lotions to the face with a small 
sponge or a soft linen rag. Let it 
dry on without rubbing, and after- 
wards wash the face with soft warm 
water. 

The foUovring is a simple remedy 
for tan or sunburn: apply peroxide 
of hydrogen, pouring a teaspoonful 
or more in the palm of the hand, and 
applying it equally over the hands, 
arms, and face. Let it dry without 
rubbing. After it is thoroughly dry, 
apply any good lotion. This will 
rapidly bleach the skin without in- 
juring the most delicate complexion. 



bly the nut or kernel of the almond, 
of which there are two sorts: the 
sweet and the bitter. The almond is 
the fruit of a tree very similar to the 
peach tree. It is cultivated exten- 
sively in southern Europe, and is now 
grown largely in California. Al- 
monds are much cheaper now than 
they were formerly, and are likely to 
become cheaper still. The almond 
contains two active principles: an 
odorless fixed oil of a light color, 
which is obtained by pressure; and 
the oil of bitter almonds, which is a 
volatile oil obtained by crushing bit- 
ter almonds in cold water and by. dis- 
tillation. This latter oil is colorless, 
limpid, and has the distinctive odor 
of bitter almonds, similar to that of 
prussic acid. It sometimes contains 
prussic acid, in which case, if taken 
internally even in minute quantities, 
it is a deadly poison. 

The ordinary almonds of commerce 
are sweet almonds of the thin- 
shelled varieties. They contain about 
SO per cent or more of almond oil, 
which may be extracted by boiling in 
water or by softening the kernels 
with water or other liquid, rubbing 
them in a mortar, and mixing the 
resulting mass with various other in- 
gredients. Or the oils of conunerce 





LOTIONS FOR TAN AND 


SUNBURN 










Castile Soap 


1 lb. 

2 dr. 

Joz. 
Idr. 

Idr. 


1 pt; 
ipt. 

ipt. 
oz. 


ioi. 
ipt. 


1 oz; 
1 oz. 


1 oz. 
i oz. 

i oz. 
i oz. 

3 dr. 


idr. 
Idr. 

2oz. 


4 lb. 

ioz. 
1 qt. 


1 pt. 
ipt. 

gill 
oz. 


Ioz. 
ioz. 

i oz. 
oz. 

3 dr. 


J dr. 
Idr. 

2oz. 

2qt. 
20 m. 


Soz. 

2oz. 

li 80r. 

li scr. 


4oz, 


Ox Gall 




Borax 


1 dr. 


Almonds, Bitter 

" OUof.. 
Sweet " .. 


Soz. 


" Salt 








Benzoin 


2dr 


Tine. Tolu 












Tartar Oil 








Alcohol (95%) 

Rose Water 


1 qt 


Any Eaaential Oil 





AliMOND MILK CHEAM AND PASTE 

Almond Preparations. — The prime 
favorite among all ingredients of the 
varjops toilet preparations is proba- 



may be utilized. Preparations of al- 
monds for toilet purposes are va- 
riously known as "milk of almonds," 
" almond cream," " almond paste," 
and the like. They are likewise 



466 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



h,%T 



known as English, French, vt other 
"milk of roses," and by similar fan- 
ciful titles, arising from the various 
added ingredients and the wishes of 
the different manufacturers. 

Among the ingredients most often 
added to almonds in these prepara- 
tions are solid unguents, as white 
wax, spermaceti, white paste, and the 
like; also liquid unguents, as glyc- 
erin, honey, the yolk of egg, and 
similar substances. Perfumed and 
distilled water, alcohol, and other 
spirits are often used as vehicles. 
And various specifics for the com- 
plexion, as benzoin, salts of tartar, 
alum, lemon juice, and other cosmet- 
ics, may be added. All recipes con- 
taining mineral substances, as salts 
of lead, mercury, bismuth, and the 
like, are here omitted. 

The oil of almonds is a gentle 
emollient. It not only softens but 
also feeds the skin. Hence it is a 
specific for the complexion, and is 
especially useful for chaps, sunburn, 
redness, and other local irritations. 
The following are standard recipes 
for milk, cream, or paste of almonds, 
in the order mentioned. Among these 
are proprietary articles which are 
sold under various fanciful titles at 
exorbitant prices, but which can be 
readily prepared at home by anyone 
who cares to take the necessary pains, 
with the advantage of knowing that 
the materials are fresh and pure and 
that the mixture contains nothing 
injurious. 

JS.ilk of Almouds. — The principal 
object to be attained in preparing 
milk of almonds or milk of roses is 
to form a perfect emulsion which will 
not separate, or which, if it separates 
after standing, may be emulsified by 
shaking. Such substances as soap, 
gum, wax, and the like, are added 
for this purpose, and all such prepa- 
rations will be improved by beating 
thoroughly with an egg beater or 
otherwise after all the ingredients 
have been incorporated. 

The milk of roses varies from the 
milk of almonds merely in being per- 
fumed with rose water or the essence 



or attar of roses. Other perfumes 
are frequently added, but in such 
limited quantities that the scent of 
roses predominates. 

Rub up in a mortar 1 ounce of 
sweet blanched almonds by adding, 
a little at a time, i pint of distilled 
water or pure soft water, mixing and 
rubbing constantly until a smooth, 
homogeneous milky emulsion is 
formed. Finally strain the resulting 
mixture through a piece of net or 
gauze to remove the coarser particles. 
This is the common " milk of al- 
monds " of perfumers, to which glyc- 
erin, various cosmetics, perfumes, and 
coloring matter may be added as de- 
sired. 

Or mix in a mortar 5 drams of 
blanched almonds, 2 drams of white 
lump sugar or rock candy, and 1 
dram of powdered gum arable, and 
rub up the whole together in the 
same manner, adding distilled water, 
a little at a time, until 8 fluid ounces 
have been incorporated. This is an 
Irish formula, and is especially use- 
ful when it is desired to add oils, 
gums, or balsams. 

Or ifailk of bitter almonds or emul- 
sion of bitter almonds may be pre- 
pared in the same manner by substi- 
tuting blanched bitter almonds for 
the sweet variety. The mUk of bitter 
almonds is especially recommended 
to relieve itching and irritation (es- 
pecially that caused by shaving), and 
as a remedy for freckles, but it de- 
velops prusslc acid, a very active 
poison, and hence must not be swal- 
lowed or applied except in very mi- 
nute quantities to a raw surface. 

Or put in a mortar 6 ounces of 
blanched sweet almonds, and add 
slowly 1 pint of distilled water, rub- 
bing up the almonds with the water 
until a complete emulsion is formed. 
Dissolve in a double boiler i ounce 
of spermaceti, J ounce of white wax, 
and J ounce of castile soap. Pour 
into this mixture in a fine stream the 
milk of almonds, stirring constantly. 
Remove from the fire, and stir in a 
mixture of 6 ounces of alcohol, 5 
drops of oil pf bitter almonds, and 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



467 



1 dram of oil of bergatnot. Strain 
through a piece of net or gauze and 
bottle for use. 

Or mix in a mortar 1 ounce of 
sweet almonds and 3 ounces of bitter 
almonds, adding slowly 1 quart of 
pure soft or distilled water. Stir in 
IJ pounds of sugar, and perfume 
with orange-flower water or other- 
wise, as desired. Strain and bottle 
for use. 

Or rub up in a mortar IJ ounces 
of sweet blanched almonds, adding 
slowly i pint of rose water. Stir in 
1 dram of finely powdered castile 
soap and 1 dram of oil of almonds, 
beating up with an egg beater or oth- 
erwise to form a complete emulsion; 
stir in a mixture of 2J ounces of 95 
per cent alcohol and J fluid dram of 
essence of roses. Add enough rose 
water to make 1 pint of the whole. 
Add, if desired, a few drops of the 



essential oil of bergamot or of lav- 
ender, or the attar of roses dissolved 
in the alcohol. 

Or rub up gradually in a mortar 
2 ounces of sweet blanched almonds 
and 12 ounces of rose water. Mix 
separately with gentle heat 3 drams 
each of white castile soap, white wax, 
and oil of almonds, to which add 1 
dram of oil of bergamot, IS drops of 
oil of lavender, and 8 drops of attar 
of roses. Add this mixture to tlie 
"milk of almonds," rub up thorough- 
ly in a mortar, beat with an egg 
beater or otherwise to form a perfect 
emulsion, and strain through silk or 
linen. 

Enough has been said to indicate 
the method of compounding these 
recipes. The following may be pre- 
pared in the same manner: 

Blanched bitter almonds, 2 ounces; 
distilled water, 2 ounces; salt of tar- 







ALMOND CREAM. MILK OF 


ROSES, ETC.. 
















.M 


M 










T3 




.M 






IB 


"S 


1 






1 
3 


"S 

sg 


la 

p 

n 


If 


■6 

a 


o 

53 


O 




1 


.art 
•a 


"< 


lrt 


a° 


1 


M 


f 


r 

n 


1 

n 


|rt 


I 


Almonds, 




























Sweet. . . 


16 oj. 


lioz. 


loz. 




71b. ' 


51b. 


31b. 


16 OZ. 




61b. 








Bitter.. . 






3oz. 


5 oz. 


16 oz. 






1 oz. 


Soz. 










Oil 


loz. 


Idr. 




5d. 




16 oz. 


4oz. 








Idr. 




loz. 


MUk. . . . 




























Paste... 




















3 dr. 




3 dr. 




White Wax 


7 dr. 






i oz. 






i oz. 


1 oz. 












Spermaceti 


3 dr. 






J oz. 






\ oz. 


1 oz. 












Castile 




























Soap 


loz. 


Idr. 




i oz. 




12 oz. 


il.b. 


1 oz. 












White Sug. 






lilb. 






















Alcohol 


Ipt. 


2ioz. 




6oz. 


Igal. 


3 gts. 


2qts. 






1 gal. 


1 oz. 






RoseWater 


7 pts. 


5pt. 


Iqt. 


Ipt. 


5 gal. 


q. s. 


10 qts. 


Iqt. 


8oz. 


3 gal. 


Ipt. 


ipt. 


4oz. 


Rosemary 




























Water... 




ipt. 
























ElderFl. 




























Water... 






1 oz. 












6oz. 










Lavender 




























Water... 




























Tin. Storax 


















2 dr. 










Tine. Ben- 




























zoin 


idr. 




















Idr. 


i fl. oz. 




Pearlaah. . . 












8 oz. 


2oz. 














Oil of Rose 




6 m. 






60 m. 


20 m. 








20 m. 








Oil of Lav- 




























ender. . . 


idr. 








loz. 


4 dr. 


ioz. 






1 oz. 








Oil of Tar- 




























tar 








Idr. 










20 m. 








20 m. 


Oil of Ber- 




























gamot. . . 
Balaam of 






















































Peru 






















20 m. 







468 



HOUSiEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



tar, J dram; tincture benzoin, J 
dram. Riib up together in a mortar, 
beat to an emulsion, and strain. 

Or blanched sweet almonds, 1 
ounce; grated castile soap, 1 ounce; 
oil of almonds, 1 ounce; white wax, 6 
drams; spermaceti, 3 drams; oil of 
bergamot, J dram; oil of lavender, J 
dram; rose water, 3 quarts; alcohol, 
1 pint. 

Complexion Paste. — The principal 
ingredients in standard pastes for the 
complexion consist of solid and liquid 
unguents, as spermaceti, wax, paste, 
suet, various soaps, and the like; 
soothing substances, as almond oil 
and honey; mild astringents, as lem- 
on juice and alum; rose water and 
alcohol for mixing purposes, and va- 
rious perfumes. 

As in other toilet preparations, the 
solid unguents give substance to the 
compound and hold the various reme- 
dial agents in suspension. Yolk of 
egg, almonds, hoijey, and the like, 
feed the skin, and other ingredients 
are used for convenience in com- 
potmding, perfuming, etc. 

Any of these pastes may be colored 
by adding coloring matter in the 
process of preparation while the mix- 
ture is in a liquid state. Rich rose, 
pink, or red may be obtained by dis- 
solving J dram of alkanet root or 
dragon's blood in about 8 ounces of 
melted fat. For orange or yellow', 
use palm oil or annotto. For blue, 
use finely powdered indigo. For 
green, steep spinach leaves in oil, and 
strain before using. 

If coloring matter is not used, 
these pastes will be of a pure white 
or a slightly tinted yellow from the 
yolk of egg. 

In compoimding the above mix- 
tures, a small marble mortar and 
pestle will be found convenient. 

White of egg may be boiled in rose 
water or plain soft or distilled wa- 
ter. Where pulverized almonds are 
required, it is better to obtain the 
fresh nuts and pulverize them shortly 
before using. The nuts may be first 
crushed by a roUing-pin, and after- 
wards pulverized in a mortar. A few 



drops of rose water or almond oil 
added in the mortar will assist by 
softening them. An egg beater will 
be found convenient in thoroughly 
blending all the ingredients in these 
mixtures. Perfumes must be added 
while the material is in a liquid state. 
When oil is used, perfume may be 
first mingled with the oilj Sperma- 
ceti, white and other soaps, may be 
first reduced to liquid form by melt- 
ing. Where alkanet root or other 
solid substances are used, the paste 
may be improved by straining while 
in a liquid condition through a linen 
cloth. The milk of pistachio nuts 
may be obtained by distilling fresh 
peeled nuts in an equal quantity of 
rose water. Simmer over a slow fire, 
and when melted form an emulsion 
with the egg beater. 

With a little attention to the above 
instructions anyone may compound a 
paste for himself, and have the sat- 
isfaction of knowing that the mate- 
rials are fresh and that no harmful 
ingredients have been used. 

Almond Paste may be prepared in 
two ways: eitlier in the cold or by 
cooking the almonds. To prepare al- 
mond paste in the cold, pound the 
dry kernels of sweet almonds to a 
fine powder in an earthenware or 
marble mortar. Tliis will require 
time and patience. When the al- 
monds are sufficiently fine, add just 
enough elder-flower, rose, or orange- 
flower water to make a paste of the 
desired consistency and perfume with 
some essential oil — as the attar of 
roses, bergamot, neroli, or any other 
desired. Preserve in covered glass 
jars. 

Or, to prepare paste of bitter al- 
monds, take equal parts of bitter and 
sweet almonds and proceed as before. 
It is not necessary to add perfumes, 
as the scent of the bitter almonds is 
sufficient. 

Or add to either of the above 2 
ounces of powdered spermaceti or 1 
ounce of grated castile soap for each 
poimd of almonds. 

Or the white of 1 egg to each 
poimd of almonds. 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 46£ 

ALMOND PASTE FOR THE COMPLEXION 





1 

1 

4 
i 02. 

ioz. 


6 


1 


i 


1 


O 


1 

a 

p 

. W 


n 


.a 


i 
1 


1 

a 

1 


.1 

T3 

d 


■si 


White Wax 


1 oz. 
4 oz. 

1 oz. 
7 1b. 

1 oz. 
^ oz. 


loz. 

1 

8oz. 
q. s. 


1 OZ. 

1 

4 oz. 
4 oz. 

q. s. 


8oz. 

8oz. 
3 

16 oz. 


4oz. 
2oz. 

idr. 


2oz. 
14 oz. 

Idr. 
idr. 


2 dr. 
Joz. 

2oz. 
2oz. 
i oz. 

12 m. 
12 m. 


4 1b. 
lib. 

q. s. 
4oz. 


4oz. 
4oz. 
1 oz. 

1 oz. 
6oz. 

2oz. 


2oz. 
8oz. 

q. 8. 


3oz. 

2oz. 
6oz. 
S 

2oz. 
lidr. 
8oz. 




Spermaceti 




Suet 




Castile Soap 




White Paste 




Simple Sirup 

Gum Arabic 








Yolkof Eee 




White of f,ee 

Almonds, Sweet 

Bitter 

Oil of 

Attar of 

Milk of Pistachio 

Alcohol 


1 

3oz. 
4oz. 
3oz. 

q. s, 


Lemon Juicd 


Alum 




Rose Water 




Oil of Bergamot 

" Cloves 




•' Mace 








Orris Powder 









Or, to prepare almond paste by 
cooking, chop or grind 24 ounces of 
blanched bitter ahnonds, which may 
be done by passing them through a 
meat cutter, cover with 8 ounces of 
elder-flower or orange-flower water, 
and cook over a slow fire, stirring 
constantly until the almond kernels 
burst and assume the consistency of 
paste. If the fire is too brisk or the 
mass is not constantly stirred, the 
almonds will burn and the quality of 
the paste will be impaired. It must 
be borne in mind that much of the 
oil of bitter almonds is volatilized by 
heat, and care must be taken not to 
breathe the fumes, which are poison- 
ous. Before removing from the fire, 
stir in 4 ounces more of orange- 
flower or elder-flower water, and rub 
up the paste in a mortar to the 
proper consistency, adding 16 ounces 
of alcohol and 3 ounces of attar of 
roses or any other essential oil de- 
sired. Rub through a hair or other 
fine sieve and bottle for use. 

Or, for honey-almond paste, heat 
in a double boiler 4 ounces of pure 



white honey, strain through cheese 
cloth, and add 4 ounces of bitter 
white paste, 8 ounces of expressed oil 
of bitter almonds, and 2J yolks of 
eggs. Add the egg and the oil grad- 
ually, and beat vigorously with an 
egg beater or otherwise, as in prepar- 
ing mayonnaise. 

Or rub up together in a mortar 3 
ounces of sweet and bitter almonds 
with IJ ounces of oil of almonds, and 
add J ounce of ground castile soap. 
Stir in 12 drops of attar of roses and 
oil of bergamot. 

Or rub up to a smooth paste in a 
mortar 4 ounces of bleached sweet 
almonds; add the white of 1 egg and 
equal quantities of rose twater and 
alcohol to make a paste of the right 
consistency. 

Or rub to a smooth paste 4 pounds 
of bitter almonds with elder-flower or 
lavender water, and beat up with this 
1 pound of pure strained honey, 4 
ounces of fine orris powder, 8 ounces 
of almond powder, and 2 ounces of 
oil of jasmine. 

Or rub up in a mortar 4 ounces of 



470 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



powdered almonds, and beat into 
these 3 ounces of oil of almonds and 
3 ounces of lemon juice, and dilute 
with equal parts of alcohol and rose 
water to make a paste of the right 
consistency. 

Or cover the whites of 4 eggs with 
rose water and bring to a boil, stir- / 
ring in J ounce of alum and J ounce ; 
of oil of almonds. Evaporate the j 
water with gentle heat, and stir con- i 
stantly until the paste is of the right j 
consistency. 1 

COLD CBEAK 

Cold Creams. — The basis of most 
cold creams is either white wax or 
spermaceti or both, with almond oil 
or rectified animal fats, as lard, suet, 
and the like, to which may be added 
various specifics for the complexion, 
and distilled waters, essences, or es- 
sential oils to perfume as desired. 

Cold cream is among the most use- 
ful of all toilet preparations, both 
as a preventive and as a remedy for 
sunburn and reddening of the skin by 
exposure, chapped hands and lips, 
frostbite, and other local irritations. 
It is also useful for whitening the 
hands and to prevent wrinkles. For 



this purpose it should be applied at 
night and thoroughly washed off in 
the morning. The hands may be pro- 
tected at night by a loose pair of kid 
or chamois gloves. 
/ To prepare cold cream, melt in 

/a double boiler 3 drams of white wax, 
1 ounce of spermaceti, and 3J ounces 
of oil of sweet almonds. Remove 
from the fire and add in a thin 
stream 2 fluid ounces of rose water, 
and stir constantly until cold. Those 
who can use glycerin with safety may 
add i ounce to 1 ounce before the 

vmixture sets. 

Or, for a medicated cold cream, 
melt with gentle heat in a double 
boiler J ounce of white wax, J ounce 
of spermaceti, and 4 ounces of al- 
mond oil. Mix separately J fluid 
ounce each of the tinctures of bal- 
sam of Peru, tolu, and benzola, to 
which add in a thin stream 2 fluid 
ounces of elder-flower water. Beat 
in the mean time with an egg beater 
or otherwise to form a complete 
emulsion. Pour this emulsion in a 
thin stream into the melted wax and 
oil, meantime beating with an egg 
beater until all the ingredients are 
fully incorporated. When cold, this 
compound will set as a permanent 











COLD 


CREAM 
















o 

1 




6 

1 


"3 

a 
a 


g 
1 

6 


t 
1 


6 

g 

a 
'3 


03 

1 


6 

1 
1 


1 

1 
1 


f 

O 
g) 

1 


f 

o 

« 


B 

6 
1 
o 


White Wax 

Spermaceti 

Lard 


4oz. 
16 oz. 

12 oz. 


i oz. 
i oz. 

4 oz. 

2oz. 
10 m. 


i oz. 
2oz. 

2oz. 


10 dr. 
10 dr. 
8oz. 

15 gr. 
2oz. 
4 oz. 

10 m. 


^oz. 
ioz. 

2oz. 


Sdr. 
5 dr. 

10 oz. 

3ioz. 
15 m. 


20 oz. 

^ oz. 
1 oz. 

5 oz. 


1 oz. 

1 OZ. 

8oz. 
5 oz. 


ioz. 
i oz. 

1 lb. 
ilb. 

2 dr. 
12 m. 


4 dr. 
6 dr. 

8oz. 
20 gr. 

8oz. 


2 lb. 
1 lb. 

4oz. 
30 m. 


3oz. 
16 oz. 

10 m. 


Ioz. 


Suet •- . 


2oz. 
4 OS. 


Quince Seed 

Mucilage 

Cocoa Butter.. . 

Almond Oil 

" 'Soap.... 
Glycerin 


Stearic Acid 

Sub. Carbonate 

Potash 

Alcohol 

Rose Water 

Any Essential 

Oil 


3 oz. 
15 m. 





TOILET PREPARATIONS 



471 



cold cream which is highly recom- 
mended as a cosmetic. 

Or melt together in a double boiler 
with gentle heat 2 ounces of sperma- 
ceti and 1 ounce of oil of almonds. 
Stir in 3 ounces of pure glycerin, and 
i ounce of balsam of Peru. Remove 
from the fire and beat with an egg 
beater until cool enough to stir. 

ABOUATIC TINEGAa 

Aromatic Vinegar, or Toilet Vine- 
gar, is a toilet preparation, the active 
principle of which is acetic acid — in 
the form of glacial acetic acid, white 
wine or other vinegar, or the like. It 
may be perfumed according to taste 
and may serve as a. vehicle for va- 
rious cosmetics. To compound toilet 
vinegar, first dissolve the essential 
oils or other perfumes in the spir- 
its, next add the vinegar or acetic 
acid, and lastly the distilled or toilet 
water. 

Or, if no spirits are used, mix the 
ingredients in a glass fruit jar or 
other tightly stoppered vessel, and 
let stand for several days, shaking 
frequently. 

The following recipes are recom- 
mended : 

Dissolve in J pint of pale rum 1 
dram each of the essences of berga- 
mot, rosemary, and marjoram. Add 
J pint of pure white-wine vinegar 
and 1 pint of elder-flower or rose 
water. Filter and cork tightly for 
use. 

Or dissolve in J pint of glacial 
acetic aCid 1 ounce of camphor. Add 
5 grains of pure oil of lavender and 
13 grains of oil of cinnamon. 

Or put in a close vessel 4 ounces of 
dried red-rose leaves, and pour over 
them 1 quart of white-wine vinegar; 
add i pint of strong essence of rose. 
Seal and let stand 2 or 3 weeks, 
shaking frequently; filter and pre- 
serve in a tightly stoppered glass 
vessel. 

Or to 1 pint of cologne add i 
ounce of glacial acetic acid. 

Or to 1 pint of white-vrine vinegar 
add i pint of essence of rose, J pint 



of extract of cassia, and J pint of ex- 
tract of orris. 

Or dissolve in 1 quart of rectified 
alcohol 1 dram of attar neroli, 4 
dram of attar cloves, 1 ounce of bal- 
sam of Peru, and 3 ounces of gum 
benzoin. Add 1 ounce of glacial 
acetic acid. 

TOILET POWDERS 

The bases of most toilet powders 
are compounds of magnesia, includ- 
ing talc or talcum — which chemically 
is magnesium silicate, and which is 
mined in large quantities in various 
parts of the world — and French 
chalk, which is not chalk but ground 
soapstone; fuller's earth, a greenish 
clky found in many parts of England 
and on the continent of Europe; and 
starch, especially rice and wheat 
starch, which is sometimes adulter- 
ated with cornstarch, potato starch, 
etc. These preparations usually con- 
tain pulverized perfumed woods, as 
orris root, sandalwood, and other 
perfumes. In addition, it is quite 
customary to use in face powder me- 
tallic bismuth, preparations of mer- 
cury, and otlier mineral drugs — all of 
which are distinctly harmful, and the 
use of which is therefore never ad- 
visable. No recipes of this sort are 
included in the present volume. 

The following are standard prepa- 
rations which contain no injurious 
ingredients : 

For plain face powder without 
perfume, pure white starch can hard- 
ly be improved upon. 

Or mix together equal quantities 
of rice flour, fuUer's earth, and white 
starch, and perfume with any essen- 
tial oil — rose, violet, or any other 
preferred. 

Or, for violet powder, mix 3 ounces 
of white starch with 1 ounce of pow- 
dered orris root, rub up together in 
water, and perfume with the essen- 
tial oils of lemon, bergamot, and 
cloves, using about double the 
amount of lemon as of the two 
others. 

Or, for a rose face powder, mix 8 



472 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ounces of pulverized rose leaves with 
4 ounces of pulverized sandalwood, 
and add 1 dram of the attar of 
roses. 

Or to 3i pounds of powdered rose 
or white starch, add J dram of rose 
pink and 1 dram each of rose oil and 
santal oil. 

BOTTOE 

Rouge Paste and Powder. — The 
base of rouge for the lips and cheeks 
is usually French chalk, almond oil, 
or other animal fat, or oil, or one of 
the gums, as gum tragacanth, colored 
with cochineal, carmine, vermilion, 
alkanet, or other red coloring matter, 
and perfumed to taste. To this may 
be added a mild astringent, as alum, 
acetic acid, and the like. 

For carmine rouge, raise to a boil 
in an aluminum or copper vessel 1 
quart of distilled water, to which add 
1 ounce of the best pulverized cochi- 
neal. After 5 or 6 minutes stir in 
carefully 30 grains of powdered Ro- 
man alum. Continue boiling 3 to 5 
minutes and set aside to cool. When 
lukewarm, but before the mixture set- 
tles, pour off the clear liquor from 
the sediment through a piece of white 
silk or chiffon into a glass fruit jar. 
Let stand 3 or 4 days and again 
pour off through white silk into an- 
other vessel. Allow the resulting 
liquor to settle; pour off the clear 
liquor from the top, and dry the 
sediment carefully in a cool, shady 
place. The result is a very finely 
divided powder, making a rouge of 
the best quality. 

Or finely powdered carmine can be 
used by taking a piece of fine un- 
scented pomatum about the size of 
a pea, and placing on it a bit of car- 
mine the size of a pin head. Mix the 
two together and apply with a bit of 
cotton. 

Or mix 4 ounces of powdered 
French chalk with 3 drams of oil of 
almonds and 1 dram of powdered 
carmine. 

Or powdered French chalk, 4 
ounces; rectified lard, 4 ounces; pow- 



dered carmine, 1 ounce. Perfume 
with essential oils as desired. 

Or the rouge ordinarily used for 
theatrical purposes may be prepared 
by mixing fine French chalk with any 
quantity of powdered cartnine neces- 
sary to give the required color. 

Or the so-called Turkish rouge 
may be prepared by putting 1 ounce 
of alkanet in a glass fruit jar and 
pouring over it 1 ounce of alcohol. 
Let stand for a week or 10 days, 
shaking frequently; strain and bottle 
for use. 

Or vinegar rouge may be prepared 
by mixing together IJ drams each of 
powdered cochineal and carmine lake 
and 3 drams of alcohol. Pour over 
these i pint of alcohol and let stand 
2 or 3 weeks; afterwards strain and 
bottle for use. Perfimie with essen- 
tial oils according to taste. 

Or, for another vinegar rouge, dis- 
solve 35 grains of balsam of Peru in 
12 ounces of alcohol; dissolve sepa- 
rately 15 grains of alum in 6 ounces 
of rose water; mix the two solutions 
and add 2 drams of acetic acid; let 
stand 3 or 4 hours, shaking occasion- 
ally; and finally add 1 dram of the 
finest quality of powdered carmine 
dissolved in J dram of aqua ammonia. 
Shake well, allow to settle for 10 or 
15 minutes, and pour off the clear 
liquor. 

Or dissolve J ounce of gum traga- 
canth in hot water and color with 
vermilion; add a few drops of al- 
mond oil, and evaporate the excess of 
moisture with gentle heat. 

Liquid Kouge. — Rouge in liquid 
form is variously known as " bloom 
of youth," "bloom of roses," "al- 
mond bloom," " Turkish bloom," etc. 
These various preparations are based 
upon distilled water and alcohol, or 
other spirit, as vehicles, and are col- 
ored with Brazil wood, red sanders, 
cochineal, and various other red col- 
oring matter. In some instances 
they contain an adhesive ingredient, 
as isinglass, and various specifics, as 
benzoin, alum, borax, and the like. 

Put in a glass fruit jar 2 drams of 
dragon's blood, 3 ounces of red san- 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



473 



ders, and IJ ounces of gum benzoin; 
pour over these 3 ounces of 90 per 
cent alcohol and 4 ounces of pure 
soft water. Seal the jar and let 
stand a week or 10 days, shaking fre- 
quently; filter and bottle for use. 

Or put in a glass fruit jar 4 
ounces of finely powdered cochineal; 
add 4 fluid ounces of distilled water 
and the same amount of aqua am- 
monia; cover with a. wet cloth and 
let simmer 3 or 4 hours in a double 
boiler. This preparation is ready for 
use as soon as it is cool. 

Or, for a larger quantity, put in a 
2-gallon glass fruit jar 1 pound of 
gum benzoin, 3i ounces of dragon's 
blood, and IJ pounds of red Sanders. 
Cover with 1 gallon of alcohol; let 
stand 3 weeks or more, shaking fre- 
quently; strain or filter for use. 

Or put 1 ounce of Brazil wood in 
a double boiler; cover with 1 ounce 
of pure soft water, and let boil 16 
or 30 minutes. Strain through cheese 
cloth; return to the fire; add \ ounce 
of borax, \ ounce of cochineal, 1 
ounce of alum, and f ounce of isin- 
glass. Dissolve with gentle heat, stir- 
ring constantly, and strain or filter 
for use. 

Or put in a fruit jar with tight 
rubber ring J ounce of finely pulver- 
ized carmine, and add 1 ounce of 
pure, fresh aqua ammonia. Seal 
tightly and let stand 3 or 4 days, 
shaking frequently. Add \ pint of 
rose water, \ fluid ounce of essence 
of roses, and J ounce of 90 per cent 
alcohol. Seal; let stand a few days, 
shaking frequently; pour off the liq- 
uor and bottle for use. 

Or put in a gallon glass bottle 1 
ounce of powdered Brazil wood and 
J ounce of cochineal; pour over this 
3 quarts of boiling hot soft water; 
let stand for 3 or 4 days, shaking 
frequently; strain through cheese 
cloth, and add 3 drams each of isin- 
glass and gum arable, and 2 ounces 
of 95 per cent alcohol. Perfume with 
essential oils or essences as desired. 

Or put in a quart fruit jar IJ 
ounces of red-rose leaves, dried and 
pulverized, Add 1 pint of pure soft 



water, boiling hot; simmer with gen- 
tle heat in a double boiler for 3 or 
3 hours, taking care that the wa- 
ter does not approach the boiling 
point. Strain the liquor, and add the 
strained juice of 3 or 3 large lemons; 
let stand 34 hours, filter, and add 4 
fluid ounces of 95 per cent alcohol as 
a preservative. 

Circassian Cream. — Put in a glass 
fruit jar 4 ounces of fresh suet, 6 
ounces of olive oil, IJ ounces of pow- 
dered gum benzoin, and \ ounce of 
alkanet root. Place the jar in a 
double boiler and simmer with gentle 
heat for several hours. Let stand 
34 hours more; heat, and strain 
through cheese cloth, and when cold 
perfume with J dram of essence of 
ambergris, J dram of oil of laven- 
der, or any other essential oil pre- 
ferred. 

Chapped lips.^Preparations rec- 
ommended for chapped lips are usu- 
ally based upon white wax, sperma- 
ceti, or beeswax, with the addition of 
almond oil and such specifics as ben- 
zoin, honey, unsalted butter, and the 
like, adding perfumes and coloring 
matter according to taste. 

Melt together with gentle heat 3 
ounces of white wax and 1 ounce of 
spermaceti; add 3 ounces of pure 
strained honey, and continue to heat 
and stir until ' fully incorporated. 
Add in a thin stream 4 ounces of oil 
of almonds; remove from the fire 
and continue stirring until the mix- 
ture is nearly cold; finally perfume 
with any essential oil according to 
taste. 

Or cover with rose water in a glass 
fruit jar 4 ounces of unsalted butter 
divided into small pieces; seal, and 
set aside in a cellar or other cool 
place for 4 or 5 days. Drain off 
the rose water, and put the butter 
in a porcelain double boiler; melt 
with gentle heat, and stir in 1 ounce 
each of spermaceti and grated bees- 
wax, i ounce of powdered alkanet 
root, 1 ounce of powdered borax, J 
ounce of confectioner's sugar, 3 
drams of powdered gum benzoin, and 
a double spoonful of strained lemon 



474 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



juice. Beat into an emulsion with an 
egg beater, and set over a slow fire, 
stirring constantly. Just before it 
comes to a boil remove from the fire; 
cool, strain, and bottle for use. 

Or put in a clean double boiler 4 
ounces of unsalted butter and 2 
ounces of grated beeswax; squeeze in 
through a piece of cloth the juice of 
u bunch of ripe grapes; add the pulp 
of the grapes and a large apple, 
chopped fine. Simmer with gentle 
heat, and when all dissolved add i 
ounce each of benjamin and storax, 
also i ounce of alkanet root. Mix 
until all are incorporated; strain 
through a piece of fine linen; remelt 
and pour into jars or molds for use. 

Or use pure clarified honey. Per- 
fume as desired. 

Or mix equal quantities of white 
sugar candy, white wax, oil of al- 
monds, and spermaceti, melting all 
together with gentle heat. 

ESSENCES AND FEBFTJUES 

Perfumes. — The subject of per- 
fumery is perhaps not so important 
as it was formerly, because the use 
of strong perfumes appears to be 
going out of fashion. The natural 
fragrance of flowers, spices, and per- 
fumed woods — the sources of the in- 
gredients used in perfumery — is, 
however, so delightful that those sub- 
stances are likely always to be em- 
ployed to a. certain extent in the 
toilet. 

The various forms in which per- 
fumes are placed upon the market 
are, according to the degree of dilu- 
tion, the attar or essential oil, the es- 
sence or extract, and the perfumed 
toilet water. Innumerable com- 
pounds are sold under various fanci- 
ful titles, as colognes, scents, spirits, 
(French esprit), and the like. The 
substances from which these per- 
fumes are obtained may also in some 
cases be purchased, as the dry leaves 
or flowers of plants, various kinds of 
wood or roots, ambergris (supposed 
to be a morbid secretion of the sperm 
whale), and the like. 



Perfumes are also used in the form 
of sachets or dry powder, to be 
placed among garments or linen, 
either in sachet bags or scattered 
loosely in chests and drawers. They 
are likewise employed to perfume 
the atmosphere of a room by put- 
ting them in open jars, or burning 
them in the form of pastilles and 
incense. 

Generally speaking, the most con- 
venient form in which to obtain per- 
fumes is the attar, otto, or essential 
oil. A few drops of these concen- 
trated substances, usually about 5 or 
6 drops to the pint or pound, will 
yield any desired odor. When the 
essence, the perfumed water, or the 
originsJ substances themselves are 
prescribed in recipes, the essential oil 
can be substituted in most cases by 
a little careful experimenting. The 
process of extracting essences and es- 
sential oUs, however, is not difficult, 
and can be carried on at home by 
anyone who is interested enough to 
procure suitable apparatus. Several 
methods of preparing homemade ex- 
tracts are given below which can be 
employed successfully by anyone. 

Volatile Oils. — These are found 
naturally in plants, and are usually 
obtained by distillation. They are 
distinguished by their pungent odor 
and also' by the fact that they are 
not capable of uniting with alkalies 
to form soaps. They are used prin- 
cipally in perfumery, with the excep- 
tion of turpentine, which is employed 
in mixing paints and varnishes. This 
oil is obtained from various cone- 
bearing trees, and exudes from the 
bark mixed with rosin and other 
vegetable juices, from which it is ex- 
tracted by distillation. 

The volatile oils upon being ex- 
posed to air absorb oxygen and crys- 
tallize into substances having the ap- 
pearance of rosin, balsam, or gum 
camphor. The perfumed oils, if not 
tightly corked, gradually lose their 
delicate scent. Most volatile oils are 
obtained by distillation in the pres- 
ence of water or alcohol, but others 
are obtained by mechanical processes 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



475 



without heat. The essential oils in 
solution with water are known as es- 
sences, as essence of pennyroyal or of 
mint, and the like. These are often 
prepared by distillation with water, 
forming the distilled perfumed wa- 
ters of commerce. The bath in which 
perfume-bearing substances are dis- 
tilled should be slightly acidulated 
with sulphuric acid. Use a few drops 
only — just enough, to give a sour 
taste to the tongue. All the essen- 
tial oils are soluble in alcohol and 
ether. 

To Test Essential Oils. — As many 
of the essential oils are expensive, 
they are frequently adulterated. Ob- 
tain a drop of the pure oil and de- 
termine the presence of substitutes 
by placing a drop of each on sepa- 
rate pieces of paper and comparing 
them carefully. The attar of roses is 
often adulterated with the oils of 
rhodium, sandalwood, camphor, sper- 
maceti, etc. The pure article has a 
sweet, smooth taste. A bitter taste 
indicates the oil of rhodium or san- 
dalwood; a pungent flavor, the oil of 
geranium or camphor; a greasy stain 
on paper, spermaceti. 

Or mix a drop of the attar of roses 
with a drop of sulphuric acid. The 
pure attar will not be affected, but 
the adulterated article will become 
dark colored, and the characteristic 
odors of the different substances with 
which it may have 'been adulterated 
can easily be discerned. 

Or, to test for adulteration with 
fixed oils, place a drop of the sus- 
pected oil on paper and evaporate it 
with gentle heat. The presence of a 
fixed oil will be detected by a perma- 
nent greasy stain. 

Or distill off the volatile oil with 
gentle heat. The fixed oil will be left 
behind. 

Or add three or four times its vol- 
ume of 80 per cent alcohol. The 
fixed oil will not be dissolved. 

Or, to test for alcohol, dilute the 
suspected oil with water. If the 
quantity of alcohol is large, the mix- 
ture will become roily or turbid. 

To test for oil of turpentine — 



which is often used to adulterate the 
oils of orange, lemon, neroli, and the 
like — set a little of the oil on fire, 
blow it out, and the presence of tur- 
pentine may be detected by its char- 
acteristic odor. 

Odor of Perfumes. — The odor of 
the volatile oils is probably caused 
by their gradual oxidation or chemi- 
cal union with the oxygen of the air. 
This is the same process as that 
which takes place in the rusting of 
iron, and is similarly promoted by 
moisture. When treated chemically 
so 'as to be perfectly pure and free 
from oxygen and moisture, the most 
powerful perfumes are odorless. Ex- 
posure to moist air restores their 
odor. Perfume-bearing flowers are 
much more fragrant when mois- 
tened, as with dew. Roses and other 
fragrant blossoms are nearly scent- 
less in dry climates. Rose jars and 
other mixtures of dry perfume-bear- 
ing substances give off very much 
more perfume when slightly mois- 
tened. 

Individual Perfumes. — Many per- 
sons prefer to have a perfume of 
their own different from those which 
are on the market or used by others 
among their acquaintances. This is 
not especially difficult, although the 
perfumes that are usually employed, 
such as heliotrope, violet, white rose, 
and the like, may, of course, be ob- 
tained by anyone. An individual 
perfume may be secured by experi- 
menting with two or more essential 
oils, mixing and blending a few drops 
at a time until a new and agreeable 
fragrance is obtained. This is, in 
fact, the way in which colognes and 
similar preparations are compounded 
for the market. One celebrated 
" German cologne " of the past gen- 
eration is said to have contained no 
fewer than thirty different kinds of 
ingredients, the result being a pun- 
gent perfume of a peculiarly agree- 
able odor. The proportion in which 
the various ingredients should be 
blended is entirely a matter of indi- 
vidual preference, to be determined 
by experiment. 



476 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 

PERFUMES— COLO GNE 



^ 






^ 



Is 



Oil Bergamot... 

" Cedrat 

" Cinnamon. . 

'* Cloves 

" Jasmine. . . . 

" Lemon 

" Lavender. . . 

Neroli 

Orange 

'* Roses 

" Rosemary. . 

Tinct. Benjamin 

" Benzoin.. 

Ess. Bergamot.. 

" Cedrat 

" Ambergris.. 

" Citron 

C a r d a- 
moms 

" Lemon 

" Or. Flower. 

'* Musk 

" Neroli 

" Jasmine 

" Rosemary. . 
Distilled Water. 
Orange - flower 

Water 

Rose Water. . . . 
Scented Honey 

Alcohol (95%).'. 

Calamus A r a - 

maticus 



40 d. 



2d. 
Idr. 

lidr. 



lidr. 
lidr. 



1 02. 

2 dr. 



2dr 



Idr 



1 dr. 



Idr. 
2 dr. 

Idr. 
10 d. 
lidr. 



2 dr. 



Idr. 



8d. 
8d. 



Idr. 



2 dr. 



2 dr. 
50 d. 



i oz. 

8d. 
15 d. 

i 02, 

i oz. 



15 d. 

i oz. 



lipt. 



Ipt. 



Ipt. 



5 dr. 
5 dr. 



4 dr. 
3d. 



2idr. 



1 qt. 



2qt. 



50 d. 



50 d. 
50 d. 



2 dr. 



50 d. 



1 gal. 



30 d 



30 d 
30 d 



30 d 



ipt. 



2oz. 

Id. 

ioz. 

2 dr. 
2 dr. 



3oz. 
2oz. 



i oz. 

2pt. 
1 gal. 



1 oz. 

2 dr. 



1 oz. 
6d. 
Idr. 



1 oz, 



3 dr. 
i oz. 



I oz. 



2oz. 



8oz. 
2 dr. 
2 dr. 



32 oz. 



1 gal. 



1 pt. 



3pt. 



1 gal. 



Idr. 



Idr. 
6 dr. 
8oz. 



1 pt. 
3pt. 



Sachet Powders. — Various solid 
perfume-bearing substances, to which 
may be added small quantities of the 
essential oils, are used in powdered 
form and sprinkled between layers of 
absorbent cotton or otherwise to per- 
fume garments laid away in chests or 
drawers. To prepare the various 
sachet powders, it is only necessary 
to finely pulverize the solids in a mor- 
tar, add the essential oils drop by 
drop, and mix the whole thoroughly 
together. When not required for 
use, sachet powder should be kept in 
tightly sealed boxes, jars, or bottles, 
so that the volatile perfumes will not 
be lost by evaporation. 

Inceuse — Pastilles. — Several per- 
fume-bearing substances may be util- 
ized in solid form by mixing them 
with combustibles, such as charcoal, 
niter, and various gums, and setting 



them on fire to perfume apartments. 
The table on page 478 embraces a 
number of recipes for incense pas- 
tilles. In aU cases first reduce the 
solids separately to powder in a mor- 
tar. This may be done by beating the 
ingredients together in an earthen- 
ware bowl, or by mixing them on a 
marble slab or plate of glass with an 
ordinary knife or a palette knife hav- 
ing a thin, broad blade. If gum 
tragacanth is used, it should be dis- 
solved in water to the consistency of 
mucUage. The essential oils and other 
liquid perfimies are then to be added 
and thoroughly worked into the mass, 
the whole formed into small cones 
like chocolate drops, and thoroughly 
dried either in a very slow oven or 
by the heat of the sun. When re- 
quired for use, one or more of these 
cones may be placed on any hot sur- 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



477 



face or set on fire at the tip and al- 
lowed to gradually smolder, when 
they will give off an agreeable per- 
fume. 

Or, where niter and charcoal are 
both employed, dissolve the niter in 
sufficient soft water to make a soft 
paste with the charcoal. Dry this 
paste thoroughly, and pour over it 
the liquid perfumes. If other solid 
ingredients are added, they should be 
in powdered form. Mix the whole 
with gum tragacanth dissolved as 
above. Dry and use as above. 



be free from all foreign substances. 
They are then placed in a large 
earthen pot or a wooden vessel, cov- 
ered with pure soft or distilled water, 
and exposed to sunshine. The vessel 
should be taken indoors at night, 
kept covered, and placed preferably 
in a warm spot. The attar or essen- 
tial oil of the rose petals rises on the 
surface in the form of a scum. This 
may be carefully taken up by a small 
piece of absorbent cotton on the end 
of a stick. The oil may then be 
squeezed from the cotton into a very 



PERFUMES— SACHET 



Caraway 

Cassia 

Cedar 

Cloves 

Coriander Seed 

Black Currant Leaves. . . 

Arom. Calamus 

Gum Benzoin 

Tonka Beans 

Dried Lemon Peel 

Lemon Geranium Leaves 

Lavender Flowers 

Rose Leaves 

Orris Root 

Mint 

Rhubarb Wood 

Santal Wood 

Salt 

Thyme 

Vanilla Beans 

Musk 

Oil Bergamot 

" Almonds 

" Lemon 

" Neroli 

" Lemon Grass 

" Rhodium 

" Rose 

" Santal 

Ess. Ambergris 

" Bergamot 

" Jasmine 

'* Lavender 

'* Lemon 



1 lb. 



12 gr. 



Idr. 
4 dr. 

Idr. 
idr. 



1 oz. 
1 oz. 



1 oz. 



1 oz. 



1 oz. 

1 OZ: 



8oz 
8oz 
1 oz. 



1 oz. 



1 oz. 
1 oz. 



1 oz. 
1 oz. 
1 oz. 



1 oz. 
1 oz. 



1 oz. 
1 oz. 



5 gr. 



J dr. 



ilb. 



lib. 
1 lb. 



ilb 

Idr. 

Idr. 
idr. 



i oz. 
i oz. 



ilb. 



i oz. 



1 oz. 
i oz. 



1 lb. 
4 oz. 



1 oz. 
4 dr. 
Idr. 



i oz. 
li oz. 
2oz. 



idr. 
4 gr. 



6 m. 



10 m. 
20 m. 



2 dr. 



ilb. 

lib. 
ilb 



1 lb 

2 1b. 



Idr. 
idr. 

idr. 



1 lb. 



ilb. 



i oz. 



Rose Perfume. — One of the most 
universally popular odors is the per- 
fume of the rose. Most persons can 
obtain rose petals in any quantity 
during the month of June, and their 
fragrance may be extracted and 
stored for future enjoyment. 

Attar of Rose. — Thi^ costly per- 
fume is prepared principally in the 
Orient and imported to America, but 
the process of preparation is simplic- 
ity itself and can be tried by any- 
one. A large quantity of petals of 
the rose are picked carefully so as to 



small vial with a glass or rubber 
stopper and preserved for use. The 
process should be continued ilntil the 
scum no longer rises. The vessel in 
which the roses are steeped should be 
covered during the day with a fine 
screen; otherwise it is likely to be- 
come a breeding place for mosqui- 
toes. Needless to say, it should be 
kept as free as possible from dust 
and dirt. Or put dried rose petals 
in an earthenware or glass vessel, 
cover vnth olive oil, and simmer with 
very gentle heat until the oil has 



478 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



PERFUMES— PASTILLES— INCENSE 



Niter 

Charcoal 

Gum Galbanum 

Frankincense... 

" Benzoin 

" Tragacanth 

" Storax 

Oil Bitter Almond . . 

" Caraway 

" Cloves 

" Neroli 

" Lavender 

" Rose 

" Santal 

" Olibanum 

" Styrax 

" Thyme 

Ess. Ambergris. 

Benzoic Acid 

Clear Sirup 

«Ess. Musk 

" Rose 

Alcohol 

Orange-flower Water 

Roae Water 

Cascarilla Bark 

Burnt Sugar 

Orange Powder 

Powder of Rose 

Yellow Sanderswood. 
Vanilla Bean 



Udr. 
6oz. 



4 dr. 
q. 5. 



2 dr. 
2 dr. 



8 dr. 



2 dr. 



■gfS 
I" 



2oz, 
IJ lb. 



2 OS. 
i oz. 
1 oz. 



IJ oz. 



3 

Ah 



a 



J oz. 
i lb. 



q. s. 

11 parts 

4 dr. 
idr. 

idr. 
idr. 
idr. 

12 parts 

idr. 
6 oz. 



ipt. 



17 oz. 
3i oz. 



i OZ. 

3oz. 



i oz. 



3oz. 



4 oz. 
4 oz. 



2ioz, 



3oz. 
i oz. 



i QZ. 

6 oz. 
4 oz. 



5 oz. 

23 oz. 

5 oz. 



5 oz. 
5 oz. 



5 oz. 



2ioz. 



7oz, 



2 lb. 



1 lb. 
1 lb. 



S 

0) o 
(1,0 



2ioz. 
12 oz. 
li oz. 
2ioz. 



2oz. 
6oz. 
4 oz. 
4 oz. 



15 gr. 



q. s. 
1 part 
i oz. 



1 oz. 



2oz. 



fully extracted both the odor and the 
color of the flowers. Or the essential 
oil of roses or of any flower which 
has an agreeable fragrance may be 
extracted as follows: procure a quan- 
tity of the petals of any flower or 
flowers desired, a roU of absorbent 
cotton in thin layers, a wide-mouthed ■ 
glass bottle or earthen vessel, and a 
small quantity of high-grade olive 
oil. Put a layer of petals in the 
empty bottle, sprinkle over them a 
small quantity of fine salt, and cover 
with a layer of absorbent cotton 
dipped in olive oil. So continue until 
the bottle is filled. Close it tightly 
with a glass stopper, a piece of blad- 
der, parchment, or rubber cloth, and 
expose to the sun. In from ten to 
twenty days squeeze out the oil, 
which will be found nearly equal to 
the commercial article. 



Or arrange the flowers in the same 
manner in an earthen jar and simmer 
with gentle heat by means of a dou- 
ble boiler, changing the flowers oc- 
casionally until the odor is satisfac- 
tory. Rectified spirits may be added, 
and the whole squeezed and strained 
for use. 

Eose Jar. — Many artistic vases 
with suitable lids can be purchased 
for this purpose, and these make very 
acceptable holiday gifts; or an earth- 
enware or glass vessel, such as a fruit 
jar which can be tightly closed, may 
be employed. 

Gather fresh roses on a clear day 
when the petals are dry. Place these 
petals in the rose jar in layers, cov- 
ering each with a thin layer of com- 
mon salt. Then add two or three 
handfuls each of lavender flowers, 
rosemary leaves, and sweet marjo- 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



479 



ram. Other flowers may be added if 
desired, or a jar may be filled en- 
tirely with rose petals. Add 4 ounces 
of pulverized bay salt and 1 ounce 
each of various spices, as cloves, cin- 
namon, grated nutmeg, and the like, 
also orris root, storax, or indeed any 
other perfumes that may be pre- 
ferred. The jar is to be kept closely 
covered, except when perfume is de- 
sired. Then the lid may be removed 
and the contents slightly moistened. 

Potpourri. — This is a. mixture of 
dried flowers and spices not ground. 
To make it, take dried lavender flow- 
ers, 1 pound; dried rose leaves, 1 
pound; crushed orris root, J pound; 
crushed cloves, 2 ounces; crushed 
cinnamon, 3 ounces; crushed allspice, 
S ounces; table salt, 1 pound. 

To Prepare Tinctures. — A tincture 
of flowers having strong perfume, as 
the tuberose, jasmine, violet, jonquil, 
and heliotrope, may be prepared by 
crowding the fresh blossoms into a 
fruit jar and covering them with 
alcohol. After they have stood for 
a few days, the mixture may be 
strained through a linen cloth, the 
flowers squeezed to extract as much 
of the essence as possible, and fresh 
flowers added. 

Or glycerin may be scented for the 
toilet and bath with any desired odor 
by the same method. 

Or put half-inch layers of any 
flowers in an earthen pot or glass jar 
with layers of fine salt between. 
Screw the top on tightly and place 
the jar in a cellar or other dark, cool 
place. This process requires from 
one to two months. At the end of 
this time strain and squeeze the liq- 
uor through a cloth, put it into a 
glass bottle, and let it stand in the 
sun to clarify. 

Or place dry rose or other petals 
in a large bottle or fruit jar, cover 
with alcohol or other rectified spirits, 
close tightly, and preserve for use. A 
few drops of this tincture sprinkled 
about a room will give it a delicious 
perfume. 

Geranium Perfume. — A perfume 
which is very agreeable to many may 



be made by either of the above meth- 
ods from the leaves of any of the 
sweet-smelling geraniums. The tinc- 
ture, obtained by packing the leaves 
in a fruit jar, filling it with alcohol 
and allowing it to stand for a few 
weeks, is perhaps the easiest to pre- 
pare. The leaves may be renewed, if 
desired, to strengthen the perfume. 

To Distill Essences. — A common 
glass retort, such as is used by chem- 
ists, may be used for distilling per- 
fumes. This consists of a round glass 
vessel with a wide mouth that can be 
closed by a cork or glass stopper. A 
glass tube passes through this cork to 
a receiver placed upon the table. 
. This tube should be long enough to 
allow the steam forming in the retort 
to condense before escaping. To fa- 
cilitate condensation, a cloth kept 
wet with cold water may be wrapped 
about the tube. A small alcohol lamp 
is kept burning under the retort, care 
being taken to keep the lamp at just 
the right distance, so that the liquor 
will not run over but pass over gen- 
tly, drop by drop. Perfumes are es- 
sentially volatile; and by this process 
they pass off with the steam con- 
densed in the tube, and thus become 
thoroughly amalgamated with the 
distilled liquor. Special appliances 
called stills can be purchased for the 
manufacture of perfumes, but this 
method is entirely practical for home 
use. The bath in which perfumes are 
distilled should be slightly acidulated 
with sulphuric acid. 

Smelling Salts. — The base of the 
best quality of smelling salts is the 
true neutral carbonate of ammonia. 
This is a volatile salt which keeps its 
pungency as long as it lasts. The 
portion exposed to the air as it vol- 
atilizes separates into carbonic-acid 
gas and gaseous ammonia. Care 
should be taken in ordering to pro- 
cure the true carbonate of ammonia 
and not the sesquicarbonate, which 
does not possess an equally strong, 
agreeable, or lasting pungency. 

Smelling salts may be prepared by 
putting the carbonate of ammonia in 
a suitable glass bottle with a stopper 



480 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



of ground glass, and adding any de- 
sired perfume, as 8 parts of carbo- 
nate of ammonia to 1 part of oil of 
lavender, or a suitable quantity of 
other essential oils, as bergamot, 
cloves, cassia, verbena, and the like. 

Or put equal quantities of slaked 
lime and carbonate of ammonia in a 
glass-stoppered bottle, cover with 
aqua ammonia, and add 13 to 20 
drops of any desired essential oil or 
oils. 

Or put in a glass-stoppered bottle 
absorbent cotton or a small sponge 
cut up into fine pieces. FiU with 
common liquid anunonia, and add 5 
or 6 drops each of various essential 
oils according to taste. 

Perfumed Toilet Waters. — These 
preparations are the product of dis- 
tillation. The perfume-yielding in- 
gredients are placed in a glass retort 
or a still, with water or spirits, and 
subjected to heat. The perfume is 
volatilized and passes with the steam 
into the receiver, the distilled water 
thus becoming thoroughly impreg- 
nated. Distillation is usually con- 
ducted on a large scale, and the pro- 
portions recommended are often for 
manufacturers' use. Most persons 
prefer to purchase perfumed waters 
rather than to go to the expense and 
trouble of obtaining a retort and 
conducting the operation. Anyone, 
however, who wishes to make this ex- 
periment for amusement or to make 
money by the sale of these prepara- 
tions may readily reduce the propor- 
tions to suit his apparatus. 

To distill with water, put the per- 
fume-bearing substances in the retort 
in the proportion of about 1 part by 
bulk to 8 parts of water. Continue 
the distillation as long as the dis- 
tilled water carried over continues to 
yield the desired odor. Additional 
water may be added if necessary. 
The less water used, the stronger the 
perfvimes. The quality can be greatly 
improved by distilling a second or 
third time. 

To distill with spirits, put the in- 
gredients in a flask, and cover with 
just enough spirits to thoroughly 



moisten them. The receptacle at the 
end of the tube should be a corked 
flask or bottie through which a tube 
should pass to within an inch of the 
bottom of the flask. This receptacle 
should be placed in a basin of iced 
water. The principal substances 
from which perfumed waters are dis- 
tilled are lavender flowers, rosemary 
tops, orange flowers, rose leaves, myr- 
tie flowers, marjoram, orange peel, 
lemon peel, laurel leaves, bitter alm- 
onds, and elder flowers. These are 
distilled separately, and the distillate 
is, of course, named accordingly. 

Perfumed Waters. — A substitute 
for rose water and other distilled 
waters may be quickly prepared by 
dropping the essential oil or attar of 
rose or other substances into distilled 
boiling water. The water should be 
taken off the fire at a boil, the oil 
dropped in, and stirred vigorously 
while cooling. 

Rose Water. — Dissolve 1 dram of 
attar of rose, or a proportionate 
quantity of other essential oils, in 1 
pint of rectified spirits; while hot 
place in a 2-gallon jug and add Ij 
gallons of pure distilled water, 
heated, but not quite to the boiling 
point — say 190°. Cork the jug and 
shake, cautiously at first but thor- 
oughly afterwards, until cold. This 
form of rose water will be found 
equal to the commercial article. 

Or drop 12 drops of attar of rose 
on a half ounce of cube sugar. Add 
2 drams of carbonate of magnesia. 
Put in a fruit jar and pour in gradu- 
ally 1 quart of water, stirring brisk- 
ly. Add 2 ounces of rectified spirits. 
Place a funnel of filtering paper in 
another fruit jar, and pour through 
the fimnel to filter. The effect of the 
magnesia is to break up the oil glob- 
ules and assist in forming an emul- 
sion with water. The magnesia is 
removed by filtering. Other per- 
fumed waters may be prepared in a 
similar manner. 

Violet Water. — Put 1 pint of alco- 
hol or proof spirits in a quart fruit 
jar. Add 1 pound of orris root, 
cover, and shake. Let stand on tte 



TOILET PREPARATIONS 



481 



dregs for a week or 10 days. Filter 
through filter paper to remove the 
orris root. 

Or mix deodorized alcohol, IS 
ounces; rose water, 2 ounces; extract 
of cassia, 1 ounce; and extract of 
violet, S ounces. Mix, shake, and 
filter. 

Or mix 1 pint of alcohol and 1 
ounce each of neroli and essence of 
violets. 

Lavender Water. — A favorite arti- 
cle for the toilet is the oil of lavender 
diluted with rectified alcohol, to 
which various other perfumes may be 
added according to taste. To pre- 
pare lavender water, it is only neces- 
sary to first mix the oil of lavender 
and other essential oils (if any) with 
a little of the alcohol; then add the 
remaining alcohol in a thin stream, 
stirring constantly. Finally stir in 
the other ingredients. The whole 
should be placed in a glass fruit jar 
with rubber rings, or other closely 
stoppered vessel, and allowed to stand 
for several months before using. It 
should be shaken frequently. The 
longer it can be allowed to stand 
before being opened the better the 



quality will be. The English oil of 
lavender is the best. 

Other perfimied toilet waters may 
be prepared by substituting any of 
the essential oils, according to taste, 
in the following table. 

Perfumed Toilet Waters. — The 
number of possible combinations of 
perfumes diluted with distilled or 
soft water, which form the perfumed 
toilet waters of commerce, is, of 
course, imlimited. The foUovring ex- 
amples illustrate the method of com- 
bining these, and may be recom- 
mended to be as desirable as any: 

Put in a pint glass bottle or fruit 
jar i ounce of oil of rosemary and 
1 dram of essence of ambergris; add 
1 pint of 95 per cent alcohol. Shake 
well, remove the cork, and let stand 
34 hours. Then cork tightly and let 
stand a month or 6 weeks, shaking 
frequently, after which put in a 
tightly stoppered bottle until ready 
for use. This is the well-known 
" Hungary water." 

Or put in a 2-quart fruit jar 1 
ounce of oil of bergamot, J ounce of 
tincture of benzoin, 1 dram of oil of 
cinnamon, and cover with 1 quart of 



LAVENDER TOILET WATER 





1 


1 

a 


1 


§ 


ID 


4 


C8 

1 

•a 
O 


g 


1 


1 

i 


I 
f 


Lloohol (95%) 


6oz. 
loz. 
4 dr. 
idr. 


ipt. 

1 oz. 
2Jdr. 


2pt. 
4oz. 

1 oz. 

1 oz. 

2 dr. 


Ipt. 
ioz. 

ioz. 
6 dr. 


Ipt. 

3 dr. 
6 m. 
6 m. 
3 dr. 
idr. 

}dr. 
2oz. 

1 oz. 
J dr. 


1 gal. 
2oz. 


4 gal. 
Ipt. 
l§oz. 

3 dr. 
idr. 
Idr. 

4 dr. 
Idr. 

i oz. 
loz. 


4 gal. 
2oz. 

4oz. 

i oz. 
loz. 


2Jqt. 
2oz. 

6 dr. 
Idr. 


20 oz. 








6 dr. 


































* Sage 












' Thyme 








10 m. 


i 


* Rose Geranium 

Essence Am.bergris 

Musk 


2 dr. 
4 m. 
4 m. 


1 

r 
I 
1 


*' Hoses 




inct. Orris Root 

Musk 












inct. Benzoin 









482 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



95 per cent alcohol. Let stand a 
month or 6 weeks, shake frequently, 
filter, and put in a tightly stoppered 
glass bottle. This is a standard 
recipe for " Florida water." 

Or, for a cheaper grade of " Flor- 
ida water," put in a 3-quart fruit jar 
i ounce of oil of bergamot, i ounce 
of lavender. Cover this with 1 pint 
of oil of lemon, and | ounce of oil 
of 95 per cent alcohol. Shake well 
and add i dram each of oil of cloves 
and oil of cinnamon. Let stand 
34 hours, add 1 quart of pure soft 
or distilled water, filter, and bottle 
for use. 

Or, for a simple " Florida water," 
put in a corked fruit jar J ounce of 
oil of bergamot, J ounce of tincture 
of benzoin, and J pint of 95 per cent 
alcohol. Dilute with pure soft or 
distilled water to the extent desired. 

Or, to illustrate the great variety 
of ingredients that may be employed 
in this manner, the following recipes 
will be stated without comment. Any 
of these, while more expensive than 
the above, will be found to be of 
most excellent quality. 

Mix i pint of tincture of cedar 
wood, i pint of tincture of myrrh, 
and i pint of tincture of krameria, 
and add 6 drops of oil of rose. 

Or put in a glass fruit jar 1 dram 
each of oils of lemon, lavender, and 



bergamot, i dram of oil of neroli, i 
dram of tincture of turmeric, 16 
drops of oil of balm, and 6 drops of 
attar of rose. Cover with 1 pint of 
pure alcohol and let stand a week or 
10 days, shaking frequently. 

Or mix J pint each of the essence 
of rose, jasmine, orange flower, and 
clove gillyflower. Add 1 pint of de- 
odorized alcohol, i ounce each of es- 
sence of vanilla and musk, J ounce of 
red sanderswood, and i pint each of 
orange-flower water and rose water. 

Or put in a 2-quarr fruit jar J 
ounce each of essence of cloves and 
balsam of Peru, J ounce each of 
musk and bergamot, | ounce each of 
essence of neroli and thyme, and i 
pint of orange-flower water, and 
pour over all 1 quart of deodorized 
95 per cent alcohol. This is the so- 
caUed "balsam of a thousand flow- 
ers." 

Or mix 3 ounces each of extract of 
violet, orange flower, and tuberose, i 
ounce of tincture of musk, 1 dram 
of essence of cedrat, 6 drops of attar 
of rose, i dram of oil of bitter alm- 
onds, and 1 ounce each of rose wa- 
ter and orange-flower water. Cover 
all with li pints of deodorized 95 per 
cent alcohol, and let stand a week or 
10 days, shaking frequently, after 
which filter and preserve in tightly 
stoppered bottles. 



CHAPTER XVIII 



HAIRDRESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 

DANDRUFF AND SHAMPOOING— HAIR WASHES— HAIR TONICS— 
HAIR OILS— HAIR DYES— OTHER HAIR TOPICS— THE BEARD. 
MUSTACHE, AND SHAVING— TOILET PREPARATIONS FOR MEN 



Eairdressing. — The subject of 
hairdressing, while of interest to 
both sexes, is especially important to 
women, both because the mass and 
length of their hair render it difScult 
to handle and keep clean, and also 
because any peculiarities it may have 
are very conspicuous. This subject 
is not only of interest to every wom- 
an for herself, but it may also be 
mentioned among the many methods 
of earning pin money in small com- 
mimities. In neighborhoods where 
there is no professional hairdresser 
any woman with natural deftness and 
taste can earn a good many dollars 
by caring for ladies' and children's 
hair, doing up ladies' hair in proper 
style for parties, and also by teach- 
ing inexperienced persons, for a small 
fee, how to do up their own hair in 
the latest style of coiffure. The in- 
formation contained in the following 
paragraphs can thus be put to prac- 
tical use and turned into dollars and 
cents. The attention of neighbors can 
be called to a woman's willingness to 
serve them in this manner by having 
a few business cards printed and giv- 
ing them to one's friends to distrib- 
ute among their acquaintances, or by 
means of a reading notice or business 
card in a local paper, which may be 
paid for by services to the wife or 
family of the editor. 

Nature of the Hair. — The hair, 
like "the nails, is formed of the same 
horny substance as that which ap- 



pears on the outer surface of the 
skin when it becomes callous. Each 
hair, on the other hand, has a well- 
developed root which runs deep into 
the skin. The pigments which give 
the hair its color are present in light 
hair as well as dark, except that gray 
hairs may not contain them. Some- 
times gray hairs are produced by the 
splitting of the hair in such a way 
as to admit the ' air. The daily 
growth of the hair is about one twen- 
tieth of an inch. It normally con- 
tinues to grow for several years, and 
reaches from 18 inches to 1 yard in 
length. The hair is subject to va- 
rious diseases, and may be affected 
by the constitutional results of wast- 
ing and infectious ailments, such as 
typhoid fever, arid also by severe 
emotions, such as fright, grief, and 
the like. Many preparations- are ad- 
vertised which claim that they will 
infallibly promote the growth of the 
hair. It cannot be too strongly em- 
phasized that all such claims are 
humbugs. 

Care of the Hair. — The . proper 
care of the hair under normal con- 
ditions is very simple. The objects 
to be kept in mind are to preserve its 
natural luster and texture by means 
of absolute cleanliness, and to mas- 
sage the scalp sufficiently to remove 
any scurf or dandruff that may ad- 
here to it, and thereby promote the 
active circulation of the blood. All 
this must be done without injury to 



484 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the scalp or the hair by pulling, 
scratching, or tearing. Cutting the 
hair frequently has a tendency, es- 
pecially in youth, to thicken the indi- 
vidual hairs and promote their 
growth. Neither this nor any other 
known process, however, tends to in- 
crease the actual number of hairs. 
All claims to the contrary are the 
pretensions of charlatans. 

Professionsil hairdressers do not 
advocate shampooing the hair oftener 
than once a month. A thorough 
brushing once or twice a week is re- 
garded by them as sufficient for 
cleanliness and as much more bene- 
ficial to the hair and scalp. 

Much contradictory advice has 
been given on the subject of brush- 
ing the hair, some persons saying 
that stiff brushes should be used and 
the scalp and hair brushed by means 
of them with a good deal of vigor; 
others recommending soft brushes 
and a very moderate amount of fric- 
tion. These differences are probably 
due to different views of the objects 
to be obtained by brushing. One ob- 
ject is to promote the health of the 
scalp and hence to give strength and 
vigor to the hair. For this purpose 
brushes with hard, stiff bristles may 
be used with considerable vigor, pro- 
vided the skin is not injured. The 
other object is to smooth the hair 
and free it from dust. For this pur- 
pose brushes may be soft and used 
with a very moderate pressure. 

Care should be taken, on the one 
hand, not to scratch the scalp, tear 
the roots of the hair, or cause it to 
split; and on the other, not to neglect 
the stimulating effects of massaging 
the scalp and removing dandruff. In 
other words, a vigorous brushing 
should be directed to the head or 
scalp, the gentler stroke being em- 
ployed in brushing the hair itself. 

The general opinion is that it is 
feasible to brush the hair free from 
dust each night before retiring. Ap- 
plications of tonics and restoratives 
should also be made at this time, as 
they have the best opportunity of 
doing their work during sleep and es- 



pecially whUe the blood is circulating 
freely as the result of brushing. The 
care of the hair must be governed by 
common sense, and general rules 
must be adapted to individual con- 
ditions. Some persons find it neces- 
sary to wash the hair as often as 
twice a month, and with others once 
a month is sufficient. When the hair 
is oily it should not be brushed as 
freely or frequently as otherwise. 
When it is dry and harsh the appli- 
cation of lanolin or other pomades 
may be necessary. 

An analogy may be found in the 
grooming of horses. Every good 
groom knows by experience that 
plenty of combing and brushing not 
only produces a fine coat but pro- 
motes the health and vitality of the 
animal. Hence brushes with moder- 
ately stiff bristles should be chosen. 

For men the so-called military or 
broad double brushes, one for each 
hand, are to be preferred. 

To Dry-clean the Hair. — ^To thor- 
oughly cleanse the hair it should be 
brushed successively from partings 
made in all directions upon the scalp, 
the utmost care being taken that for- 
eign matter accumulated on the brush 
is removed and not returned by the 
next stroke to the hair. 

Professional hairdressers when giv- 
ing the hair a dry cleaning run a 
comb through the brush each time 
the latter is drawn through the hair, 
and afterwards wipe the comb clean 
on a towel. The object of this proc- 
ess is to remove dirt and dandruff 
and bring about the additional soft- 
ness resulting from perfect cleanli- 
ness. If this is not done, the natural 
oil of the hair mixing with foreign 
substances merely makes the hair 
sticky. 

Care of Hairbrushes. — Brushes 
should be cleaned very often and 
thoroughly, as a surprising amount 
of dust and dirt gathers in the hair. 
This quickly accumulates in the 
brushes and fills them. Hence the 
brush should be cleaned immediately 
after using. 

Substances recommended for this 



HAIRDRESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 485 



purpose are gasoline, ammonia, bo- 
rax, and sal soda, of which the last is 
least desirable. It is also a good 
plan to disinfect the brush by put- 
ting a few drops of carbolic acid in 
the water. Neither hot water nor 
soap should be used, and the bristles 
should be allowed to dry thoroughly 
before using them. The effect of hot 
water and soap is to soften the bris- 
tles and also the glue with which they 
are commonly fastened into the 
brush, and when soft, the bristles are 
likely to split and break oflF or faU 
out. 

To Clean a Hairbrush. — First 
comb out the loose hair with a coarse 
comb. Turn the brush downward 
and strike the bristles on a smooth, 
solid surface to loosen the dust and 
dandruff. Then rub the bristles over 
a Turkish or other coarse towel to 
wipe off as much of the loosened dust 
as possible. 

To Wash a Brush. — Take two 
bowls of cold water in which to wash 
and to rinse the brush respectively. 
In one put about 1 tablespoonful of 
ammonia to 1 pint of water, and in- 
troduce the bristles in this without 
immersing the back of the brush. 
Rub the bristles back and forth with 
the hand in the water until they are 
dean. 

Or, to assist in cleaning them, re- 
move the brush from the water and 
brush the dust and dirt out of it 
with a clean, stiff whisk broom which 
will work down into the bristles. Af- 
terwards rinse in clear water in the 
same way. 

Or add about 3 or 3 teaspoonfuls 
of alum to 1 pint of water, and rinse 
the bristles in this to toughen them. 
Wipe the bristles back and forth on 
a clean, dry towel, and hang up the 
brush by the handle to dry, or better 
still, lay it down in the draught with 
the bristles down. Never lay a wet 
brush down on the back, as this per- 
mits the water to run down the bris- 
tles and soak the glue with which 
they are fastened to the back. Do 
not expose a wet brush to direct sun- 
shine or other drying heat, as too 



rapid drying has a tendency to warp 
or crack the back of the brush. 

Or iirst moisten the bristles in 
clear warm water and sprinkle them 
with powdered borax, after which 
wash and rinse as above. 

Or dissolve 1 tablespoonful of sal 
soda in 1 quart of boiling water and 
let stand until It is cold. Wash and 
rinse the brush as above. 

To Clean Combs. — A wire brush or 
whisk broom is the best means to 
clean gutta-percha combs, and is 
preferable to soaking them in water. 

Or they may be washed in either of 
the solutions recommended above for 
washing brushes. 

DANSBUFF AST} SHAKFOOme 

Dandruff. — Dandruff is a very 
common disease. It is caused by the 
formation of a scurf on the scalp 
which becomes detached in fine, dry 
scales. Unless these scales are re- 
moved from the hair by frequent 
brushing they give it a dry and lus- 
terless appearance. They also tend 
to accumulate on clothing and to 
give the impression of uncleanliness. 
Advertised preparations for the cure 
of dandruff are not only usually of 
no avail, contrary to the claims which 
are so persistently advertised in their 
favor, but are often positively inju- 
rious. 

Among the causes of dandruff may 
be mentioned weakness of the scalp 
from infectious diseases or otherwise, 
pressure of heavy and close hats and 
caps or of the hair matted upon the 
scalp, excessive use of hair oils and 
dyes, and other causes. These condi- 
tions shoiild be avoided as much 
as possible, and the scalp should be 
kept perfectly clean, with due atten- 
tion to instructions already given for 
its care. Hygienic measures for the 
improvement of the general health 
are also very important. Substances 
which are especially recommended for 
dandruff are yolks of eggs vnth chlo- 
roform, borax with or without cam- 
phor, carbolic acid, soda, and chlorate 
of potash. 



486 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Add 10 drops of chloroform to the 
yolk of an egg, and beat with an egg 
beater to a stiff consistency. Rub 
the size of an English walnut of this 
mixture into the scalp with the tips 
of the fingers, taking care to rub it 
thoroughly into the roots of the hair. 
Afterwards wash the scalp with Cas- 
tile or lanolin soap, and dry thor- 
oughly with a soft towel. Some phy- 
sicians claim that this is the only 
remedy for dandruff that is at once 
harmless and efficacious. 

Or pulverize 1 ounce of borax and 
J ounce of camphor, and dissolve in 
1 quart of boiling water. Use this 
solution cold. Moisten the hair fre- 
quently. Some of the camphor 
wiU sink to the bottom of the ves- 
sel, but enough will remain in solu- 
tion to be effective. After using, 
rub a little neat's-foot oil into the 
scalp. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of flowers of 
sulphur in 1 quart of water. Shake 
frequently while dissolving. Allow 
the solution to stand imtil it settles, 
and saturate the hair with the clear 
liquor night and morning. 

Or put a lump of fresh quicklime 
the size of a butternut in 1 pint of 
water. Let it stand 12 hours. Strain 
through a linen cloth and add J pint 
of white-wine vinegar. Rub this mix- 
ture into the roots of the hair with 
the finger tips. If white-wine Vine- 
gar is not obtainable, the best that 
you have will do. 

Or mix 2 ounces of glycerin with 
i dram of carbolic acid and 1 dram 
of oil of bergamot or other perfume. 
Rub this mixture into the roots of 
the hair with the finger tips and af- 
terwards use bay rum. This tends to 
keep the hair and scalp in good con- 
dition and to prevent the formation 
of dandruff. 

Or dissolve 1 thimbleful of pow- 
dered borax in 1 teacupful of water. 
Rub this mixture into the scalp with 
the fingers, and follow with a brisk 
brushing. Where the dandruff is 
plentiful, use this mixture daily for 
a week. Afterwards use twice a 
week until a cure is effected. 



I To Shampoo the Hair. — Shampoo- 
ing Is a word which means cleansing 
(the head and hair. The base of the 
(best shampoo mixtures is undoubt- 
edly yolk of egg. Castile soap, how- 
ever, is highly recommended. Borax, 
ammonia, sal soda, and salts of tar- 
tar are added on account of their 
cleansing properties; alcohol or bay 
rum to cut the oily substances and 
as preservatives; distilled water and 
rose water for convenience of appli- 
cation. 

Perhaps the best of all shampoos 
is the yolk of an egg beaten up with 
a pint of soft warm water. Apply at 
once, and rinse off with warm water 
and Castile or other hard white soap. 

Or add 6 drops of chloroform to 
the above. 

Or salts of tartar may be used for 
this purpose and is commonly em- 
ployed by barbers. Dissolve i oimce 
of salts of tartar in 1 pint of soft 
water; apply freely and rub to a 
lather. Wash with soft warm water 
and castile soap. 

Or dissolve 1 ounce of salts of tar- 
tar in IJ pints of soft water. Add 
1 ounce of castile soap in shavings 
and 4 ounces of bay rum. The salts 
of tartar will remove dandruff, and 
the soap will cleanse the hair and 
scalp. 

Or mix 1 pint of soft water, 1 
ounce of sal soda, and i ounce of 
cream of tartar. 

Or mix J ounce of alcohol, J ounce 
of glycerin, J ounce of sulphuric 
ether, J dram of aqua ammonia, J 
ounce of castile soap in shavings, and 
1 pint of soft water. 

After using a shampoo mixture, a 
little vaseline, oil, or pomade should 
be rubbed into the hair to take the 
place of the natural oil which is 
washed out in the shampooing. 

Or pea flour or almond meal is rec- 
ommended for cleansing the hair and 
scalp. The hair should first be 
washed with cold water, and a small 
handful of pea flour or almond meal, 
as preferred, rubbfed into it for five 
or ten minutes. Fresh water should 
be added from time to time until a 



•HAIRDRESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 487 



perfect lather forms. The whole 
head should then be rinsed clean, 
dried with a soft towel, and brushed 
thoroughly. This process thoroughly 
cleanses the hair and tends to give it 
a soft, silky texture. It is also said 
to be invigorating to the scalp. 
. To Compound Shampoos. — When 
yolk of egg is employed it should be 
beaten stiff with an egg beater, other 
dry materials added, and the whole 
diluted by adding distilled water 
slowly, and stirring briskly with an 
legg beater or otherwise to form an 
emulsion or thin paste. For the ideal 
egg shampoo, however, see above im- 
der "Dandruff." 

For other remedies, bring distilled 
water to a boil, take it off the stove, 
dissolve in it such substances as Cas- 
tile soap, sal soda, borax, etc., add 
bay rum and spirits if desired, strain 
through linen, and allow to cool be- 
fore perfimies are added. 

To Apply Shampoo Mixtures. — 
Apply about a tablespoonful of a 
good shampoo mixture, rubbing it 
into the scalp with the tips of the 
fingers and working it in thoroughly. 
Massage with the hands until a fine 
lather is produced. Afterwards rinse 
with clear soft water, first hot then 
cold, dry the hair with a coarse 
towel, and apply a little oil or poma- 
tum, if desired, to' take the place of 
the natural oil which has been re- 
moved from the hair by this process. 

Dry-hair Shampoo. — ^Mix 4 ounces 
of powdered orris root with 1 ounce 
of talcum powder, and sprinkle free- 
ly through the hair. This absorbs the 
superfluous oil and gives the hair a 
very thick and fluffy appearance. It 
is especially useful to persons whose 
hair is heavy and oily. It is also 
cooling and cleansing to the scalp. 

HAIB WASHES 

The solid and semisolid bases com- 
monly found in toilet preparations 
are naturally to a great degree ab- 
sent from those given here. The base 
of these washes is usually soft water, 
rose water, ean de cologne, or some 



form of spirits in which the remedial 
agencies and perfumes are held in 
solution. Preparations containing al- 
cohol and other spirits should be 
used with caution, as by evaporation 
they tend to dry the scalp and also to 
deprive the hair of its natural oil, 
which gives normally a perfect luster. 

Such substances as castile soap, 
ammonia, sal soda, salts of tartar, 
borax, and the like are often added 
for their cleansing properties. The 
principal remedial agents recom- 
mended are such substances as can- 
tharides, arnica, camphor, sulphur, 
iron sulphate, and the like, and va^ 
rious vegetable infusions. These are 
employed for certain specific prop- 
erties beneficial to the scalp. As in 
other similar toUet preparations, rose, 
elder-flower, orange-flower, rosemary, 
and other waters may be used, ac- 
cording to taste, and the same may 
be said of the various perfumes. 

Nothing, perhaps, is better to 
cleanse the hair than diluted am- 
monia water — 1 part of aqua am- 
monia to 10 parts of water. The hair 
and scalp should afterwards be weU 
rinsed with clear warm water. 

Or pour 1 pint of boiling water on 
a handful of rosemary leaves, and 
add i tablespoonful of carbonate of 
ammonia. Cork tightly and let stand 
over night, shake well, and strain 
through cheese cloth. Preserve in a 
tightly stoppered bottle. 

Or mix 2 ounces of sal soda and 
1 ounce of cream of tartar. DUute 
with soft water to any desired con- 
sistency. 

Or dissolve 1 tablespoonful of aqua 
ammonia and 1 teaspoonful of borax 
in 1 quart of soft water. Wash the 
hair thoroughly and rub dry with a 
towel. 

Or dissolve 30 grains of salts of 
tartar in 1 pint of soft water, and 
add IJ ounces of glycerin. 

Or dissolve J ounce of camphor 
and 1 ounce of borax in powdered 
form in 1 quart of boiling water. Put 
in a tightly stoppered bottle and let 
stand over night. Shake well before 
using. 



488 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or dissolve 1 dram of pearlash in 
i pint of alcohol; dilute with 2 
quarts of soft water. 

Or boil 1 ounce of sassafras wood 
and 1 quart of soft water or diluted 
water, and add i pint of alcohol and 
J pint of pearlash. 

Care, however, should be taken not 
to use these preparations too fre- 
quently. Once or twice a month is 
often enough to wash the hair in this 
manner unless it is unusually oily, 
and it should be borne in mind that 
the use of hair washes, by depriving 
the hair of its natural oil, has a 
tendency to make it harsh and dry, 
and hence tends to split it. After 
the use of washes of this sort a little 
vaseline, hair oil, or pomatum may be 
rubbed into the hair to replace the 
natural oil. 



for fifteen or twenty minutes to 
make a, strong infusion. Next strain, 
add such solids as castUe soap (in 
shavings), borax, sal soda, and the 
like while the liquor is warm enough 
to dissolve them, and reserve the per- 
fumes untU it becomes cool. 

HAIR TONICS 

Loosening and Falling Out of the 
Hair. — This often takes place as the 
result of infectious diseases, on ac- 
count of the weakening of the scalp. 
Contrary to common belief, it is 
probably never due to results of dis- 
sipation and excesses. Hygienic 
measures to improve the general 
health come first in importance. The 
use of tar soap and the yolk of egg 
is beneficial. To plunge the head 





HAIR PREPARATIONS, WASHES, 


ETC. 












1 

s 


1 


3 

a 

1 




1 


i 


o 


1 

1 


i 


1 


1 


.£1 

a 


i 
I 




loz. 

15 dr. 
lioz. 

Ipt. 


2oz. 
Joz. 

1 oz. 
1 oz. 

24 oz. 


1 oz, 

idr. 
4 dr. 
8oz. 


loz. 

ipt. 

Iqt. 


ioz. 

ipt. 

Iqt. 
iPt. 

idr. 


2oz. 

2qt. 
6oz. 


2 dr. 

iPt. 


2oz. 

2oz. 
ipt. 

Iqt. 


Idr. 

4pt. 
6oz. 

2oz. 
2oz. 


i oz. 

1 oz. 
2qt. 

1 lb. 


2oz. 

2qt. 

2oz. 
2oz. 
2oz. 

2oz. 


1 oz. 
i oz. 

Iqt. 




Castile Soap 








Creaia of Tartar 

Pearlash 


2 dr. 














Tinct. Cantharides 


ipt. 


Sherry Wine 












Eau de Cologne 

Tinct Myrrh 




Ext. Rondeletia 

Water (Soft) 


1 gal. 










Hazel Bark 












Rosemary Leaves 

Southernwood 





Compounding Hair Washes. — 
When the solid substances, as rose- 
mary or bay leaves, saflFron wood, 
southernwood, and the like are rec- 
ommended, they are prepared by 
boiling in the water or other liquid 



into cold water night and morning, 
and afterwards to dry the hair, 
brushing the scalp briskly to a warm 
glow, is beneficial for men so af- 
fected. The recipes for various ton- 
ics and lotions will be given contain- 



HAIRDRESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 489 



ing all the known specific remedial 
agents, and persons threatened with 
baldness are earnestly advised to 
compound their own remedies and 
not purchase advertised nostrums. 

Dry and Harsh Hair. — This condi- 
tion of the hair may be improved by 
shampooing the scalp with yolk of 
egg, as recommended for dandruff, or 
the scalp may be washed with a weak 
solution of green tea applied cold, or 
with an emulsion of castUe soap con- 
taining a small quantity of tannin. 
Alcohol in any form is highly objec- 
tionable, as it tends by rapid evapo- 
ration to increase the dryness of the 
scalp. Shampooing the scalp occa- 
sionally with a good shampoo mix- 
ture is also useful. This condition 
may occur from too frequent wash- 
ing of the scalp with soap or other 
substances that deprive it of its nat- 
ural oUs. 

Baldness. — Absolute baldness is a 
condition in which the follicles or 
roots of the hair have lost their vi- 
tality. It is absolutely incurable. 
Hence preventive measures should be 
taken as soon as there is any indica- 
tion of a tendency to baldness, as 
shown by the falling out or loosening 
of the hair. The bases of most hair 
invigorators and restorers is some 
form of cantharides or quinine. A 
number of simple household remedies 
have been recommended which are 
harmless and may be tried by any- 
one, among these being sage tea, Ja- 
maica rum, lemon juice, vinegar, salt 
water, lobelia, onion juice, boxwood, 
and ammonia. 

Instructions for the use of these 
homemade remedies are as follows: 

Mix 1 pint of strong sage tea, 1 
pint of bay rum, and 1 or 2 ounces, 
more or less, of glycerin, depending 
upon the amount of natural oil in the 
hair; or substitute neat's-foot oil fo? 
glycerin if the latter does not suit the 
skin. Shake the mixture well and 
apply with the finger tips to the 
scalp, rubbing thoroughly into the 
roots of the hair every night. This 
tends to prevent the hair from turn- 
ing gray. 



Or wash the head daily with good 
old Jamaica rum. 

Or rub the pulp of a lemon on the 
scalp. 

Or pour boiling water on rock salt 
or sea salt, using 3 heaping table- 
spoonfuls to 1 quart of water, and 
allow it to cool before using. Use as 
a wash daily. 

Or 1 teaspoonful of ammonia in 1 
quart of warm water. Use as a wash. 

Or fill a jar or bottle with pow- 
dered lobelia. Mix brandy and sweet 
oil in equal parts, and add as much 
of the mixture as the powdered lo- 
belia will take up. Mix and allow 
the compound to stand three or 
four days. Apply to the roots of the 
hair by rubbing with the finger tips 
daily. 

Or cut a small onion in half and 
rub the scalp with it just before re- 
tiring. The onion juice is said to 
stimulate the skin and invigorate the 
roots of the hair. Rinse well with 
soft water and castile soap in the 
morning. 

Or steep in a covered saucepan for 
IS or 30 minutes 4 large handfuls 
of the leaves of the common box, 
such as is used for garden borders. 
Let the decoction stand over night. 
Strain through a linen cloth and add 
J ounce of cologne or lavender water. 
Use as a wash daily. 

Hair Tonics. — The principal reme- 
dial agents in proprietary articles 
usually known as invigorators or re- 
storatives for the hair are the va- 
rious preparations of cantharides 
(usually the vinegar or tincture), 
quinine (either in the form of cin- 
chona bark or quinine sulphate), car- 
bonate of ammonia, tincture of ar- 
nica, an infusion of the tendrils of 
the grapevine, and various astringent 
substances. These preparations may 
be based on solid unguents, as lard, 
white wax, spermaceti, or beef mar- 
row; or on liquid unguents, as sweet, 
olive, cocoanut, or other oil, espe- 
cially castor oil, which is thought to 
be a specific for promoting the 
growth of the hair; and diluted with 
various vehicles, as alcohol, eau de 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



cologne, rose water, distilled water, 
and the like. Jamaica rum, with or 
without the oil of bay, and sherry- 
wine are thought to have tonic prop- 
erties. And various cleansing agents, 
as borax and ammonia, are frequent- 
ly added. All of these preparations 
may be perfumed with the various es- 
sential oils according to taste. They 
require only mixing. Hence it is suf- 
ficient to give the formulas in the 
following table. The ingredients 
should be shaken well before using 



and applied daily, being well rubbed 
into the roots of the hair untU it 
stops falling out, or is otherwise in 
a satisfactory condition. 

The following is an especially rec- 
ommended recipe: put in a glass bot- 
tle 8 ounces of 95 per cent alcohol; 
add J ounce of glycerin, 8 grains 
of sulphate of quinine, IJ grains of 
tincture cantharides, 2J drams of 
tincture rhotany, and i ounce of es- 
sence of lavender. Mix and shake 
well before using. 



HAIR TONICS, INVIGORATORS, AND RESTORATIVES 



n 



Lard 

White Wax 

Castor Oil.. 

Glycerin . . . 

Sweet Oil. . 

Aromatic 
Sp. Am . 

Aqua Am.. 

Tine, of 
Arnica. . 

Tine, of 
Canthar- 
ides 

Ving. of 
Canthar- 
ides 

Capsicum . 

Carb. Am.. 

Cinchona 
Bark.... 

Black Tea. 

Tannic 
Acid 

Alcohol... . 

Bay Rmn. 

Sherry 
Wine.... 

Water 

Balsam of 
Tolu.... 

Oil of Ber- 
gamot . . 

Eau de 
Cologne. 

Oil of Lav- 
ender . . . 

Oil of - 
Cloves,. . 

Tine, of 
Myrrh. . 

Oil of Rose 

Oil of Rose- 
mary. . . 

Thyme 
(white) . 



4az, 



2oz. 
2 oz. 



Idr. 
ioz. 



2 dr. 



1 oz. 



3oz. 



4 dr. 



2 dr. 



ioz. 



ioz. 



Iqt, 



1 oz. 



Ipt. 



8oz 



3oz 



ipt. 
|pt. 



2 dr. 
30 d. 



idr, 



idr. 



30 m 



10 m, 



lipt. 



3oz 



10 m. 
15 dr. 



ioz. 



i oz. 



ipt. 
Ipt. 



1 oz. 

J dr. 
7ioz. 



i oz. 



1 oz. 



1 oz. 



Iqt. 

i oz. 
i oz. 



Ioz. 



ioz. 



Ipt. 
2pt. 



1 oz. 



2 dr. 

Idr. 

3oz. 

idr. 
1 oz. 



goz. 



Ioz. 
Ipt. 



Ioz. 



Ipt, 

Iqt. 



3oz. 



i oz. 



2oz. 



1 qt. 



i oz. 



i oz. 



HAIRDEESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 491 



Compounding Hair Tonics. — In 
compounding the various hair tonics 
in the preceding table the solids, as 
black tea, bay leaves, and the like, 
must be boiled fifteen or twenty min- 
utes to produce an infusion, and then 
strained through a linen cloth. Cin- 
chona bark and jaborandi should be 
first reduced in a mortar to a fine 
powder before boiling. Solid un- 
guents must be melted with gentle 
heat, oils cut in alcohol or other spir- 
its, and remedial agents added while 
the mixture is still hot enough to dis- 
solve them readily. The whole should 
then be removed from the fire, thor- 
oughly mixed by beating with an egg 
beater or otherwise, and strained 
through a linen cloth to remove the 
dregs. The essential oils and other 
volatile perfumes, if any, should be 
reserved until the liquor is nearly 
cold, to prevent loss by evaporation. 

HAIB OILS 

TTse of Hair Oils. — The natural lus- 
ter of the hair is often destroyed by 
the excessive use of hair oils and 
similar preparations. The sebaceous 
glands whicTi secrete an oily sub- 
stance are attached closely to the 
roots of the hair, and normally sup- 
ply it with sufficient oily matter to 
keep it in good condition. To pro- 
mote the activity of these glands and 
to distribute the natural oil evenly 
to the extremities of the hair is one 
of the principal objects of brushing. 
This is why a person whose hair is 
naturally too oily should refrain 
from brushing the hair more than is 
necessary for cleanliness. A multi- 
tude of hair oils and similar prepa- 
rations are on the market, and va- 
rious preposterous claims are set 
forth by their venders. Many of 
these contain minerals and other in- 
jurious ingredients, and none of them 
are equal to the simple preparations 
which may be compounded at home 
frorii the following recipes. We ear- 
nestly advise against the use of any 
preparation the ingredients .of which 
are kept a secret, and the quality 



and condition of which cannot' be 
definitely ascertained by the user. 

The hair is liable to certain abnor- 
mal conditions, as premature gray- 
ness, falling out, dryness and harsh- 
ness caused by the absence of its 
natural oils, and partial or total 
baldness. Certain special methods of 
treatment and remedial agents may 
properly be employed in such cases, 
and recipes for compounding these 
are given below. 

Hair Oils. — Preparations recom- 
mended to replace the natural oil of 
the hair when that is, for any reason, 
deficient, are based upon various 
fixed oils, with the addition of essen- 
tial oils as perfumes and various 
remedial agents. The best quality 
of hair oil is, perhaps, that based on 
the oil of ben (which is colorless, 
odorless, does not become rancid, and 
therefore requires less perfimie than 
others), olive oil, the oil of sweet alm- 
onds, and castor oil. Cotton-seed 
oil is employed for the cheaper va- 
rieties. As specific remedial agents 
they frequently contain cantharides. 
Alcohol and other spirits are used 
to cut oils, and also as preserva- 
tives. 

Bear's grease was formerly in high 
approval for this purpose, but mar- 
row oil from beef marrow is equally 
good and much less expensive, be- 
sides being free from the objection- 
able odor of bear's grease. In fact, 
the latter is not usually obtainable, 
as substances sold under that name 
are largely diluted with various other 
animal fats. These preparations re- 
quire only mixing and the addition of 
a few drops of essential oil or other 
perfumes according to taste. The ex- 
tent to which they should be used 
will, of course, depend upon the con- 
dition of the hair and the tastes and 
preferences of the individual. Their 
principal use is in cases of unusual 
dryness or harshness of the hair, or 
when the natural oil of the hair has 
been temporarily removed by sham- 
pooing. 

To Compound Hair Oils. — Oils pre- 
scribed in these compounds should be 



492 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



HAIR OILS 



Beef Manow 

OUof Ben 

Castor OU 

CocoanutOil 

C!otton-seed Oil^ . . 

Olive Oa 

Tine, of 

Gantharides . . . 
Vinegar of 
Cantharidea. . . . 

Glycerin 

Alcohol 

OU of Bereamot . . 

'* Cinoamon. . 

" Citionella. . 

" Civet 

" Gloves 

" Fennel 

" Jasmine.. . . 

" Lavender . . 

'* Myrbane . . . 

'* Nutmeg . . . 

" Origanum.. . 

" Rose 

" Rosemary . . 

" Sassafras. . . 

" Thyme 



Iqt, 



i oz, 



15 oz. 



2oz. 

2oz. 

20 dr. 



2 dr. 



1 pt. 



3gr. 
3oz. 

3d. 



1 gal. 



i oz. 
1 oz. 

Joz. 



6ipt. 



lipt. 
^oz, 

i oz. 



Ipt. 



Ipt. 



1 gal. 



i oz. 
2}oz. 

i oz. 



i oz. 
i oz. 
i oz. 



1 m. 
6d. 



12 d. 



i oz. 



Ipt. 
Ipt. 



10 d. 



lib. 



1 m. 
lid. 



Ipt. 
10 m. 



1 qt. 



ipt. 
i oz. 
i oz. 



first melted together with gentle heat. 
Next add coloring matter, if any is 
desired. Now put in remedial agents, 
add spirits, if any, mix whUe warm, 
and allow to cool before adding per- 
fumes. 

To Color Hair Oil. — Any desired 
color may be imparted to oUs for the 
hair by treating the fixed oil used as 
a base before the other ingredients 
are added. To accomplish this the 
olive, cotton-seed, or other oil which 
is used in the largest quantity in the 
mixture should be warmed with gen- 
tle heat, the coloring matter added, 
and the whole simmered without boil- 
ing, until the desired color or a little 
stronger tint is obtained. This may 
require from one to two hours. The . 
oil should then be poured into a 
closed vessel and kept in a warm 
place for a day or two so that it may 
be evenly tinged with color. Finally 
it should be warmed and strained 
through coarse linen to remove the 



dregs and to give it brilliancy and 
luster. 

For red, pink, or rose, use alkanet 
root — about 2 drams to a pint. The 
trouble of straining the oil may be 
avoided by putting the alkanet root 
in a muslin bag and suspending it in 
the oU, but the former method is to 
be preferred. 

For yellow or orange, use a little 
annotto or palm oU. 

For green, use a little green parsley, 
or lavender in the same manner, or 
dissolve 3 or 3 drams of gum guaia- 
cum in each pint of oil as above di- 
rected. 

Perfumes for Hair Oils. — Instead 
of taking the trouble to measure the 
exact quantities of different perfumes 
directed to be used in various recipes, 
many persons select a particular per- 
fume for their own use, or blend two 
or more essential oils to produce an 
individual perfume suited to their 
taste. The combinations of essential 



HAIRDRESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 493 



oils that may be made up are, of 
course, coimtless; but the ones rec- 
ommended elsewhere -will serve as 
suggestions to those interested. An 
ounce or two of any of these per- 
fumes added to a pint of rectified 
spirits produces an agreeable per- 
fume or "cologne" for personal use. 

HAIB STES 

Dyeing as a means of changing the 
normal color of the hair is now very 
little resorted to, except by a small 
number of thoughtless girls and wom- 
en who are misled by ignorant or in- 
terested persons. This practice is 
regarded by all intelligent persons as 
an unmistakable mark of vulgarity. 
Even the young men themselves, who 
are supposed, if any are, to be de- 
ceived and attracted by this process, 
have coined the expression " chemical 
blonde " and " peroxide blonde " to 
define a woman who has been deluded 
into following this silly fad, and 
boast themselves able to recognize 
such an individual at sight. 

There is more justification for the 
use of hair dyes in case of premature 
grayness and especially in those pe- 
culiar cases where irregular patches 
of gray hair make their appearance. 
The causes of these conditions are 
not fully imderstood. It is well 
known that the hair may turn gray 
suddenly as a consequence of extreme 
emotion, fright, pain, and the like. 
Patches of gray hair are sometimes 
, attributed to fungous growths at the 
roots. Even in these cases, however, 
it is usually better to avoid taking a 
plunge into the unknown. The diffi- 
culties connected with dyeing the 
hair are many, and the injurious 
consequences are inevitable. Such a 
substance as a harmless hair dye is 
not known, aU claims to the contrary 
notwithstanding. Neither is it possi- 
ble to deceive anyone. The natural 
color of the hair is subtly blended by 
nature with the tints and shades of 
the complexion, and any change in 
the color of the hair will produce an 
unnatural disparity which the' prac- 



ticed eye readily detects. Men might 
perhaps be deceived, but women 
never. And the man or woman who 
adopts the use of hair dyes speedily 
becomes the subject of more or less 
invidious gossip and ridicule. The 
practice is usually begun with the 
idea that a. single application will be 
sufficient. This is not the case. The 
hair grows at the rate of about one 
twentieth of an inch each day; hence 
in a few days a new growth appears 
and a fresh application of the dye 
becomes necessary. Meantime the 
dye has injured the hair and in many 
cases the scalp, brain, and nervous 
system. All preparations, of lead, 
silver, and other mineral substances 
are distinctly and often fatally inju- 
rious. We have excluded from this 
book all preparations of this char- 
acter, but in deference to the wishes 
of those who have a legitimate 
reason for wishing to darken the 
color of the hair, we give a number 
of recipes which are as efficacious as 
any that can be recommended with 
safety. 

Hair Dyes. — A careful examination 
of more than 100 counted recipes for 
hair dyes recommended in otherwise 
reputable books of household recipes 
discloses none which do not contain 
injurious mineral substances, except 
those we give below. 

Recent chemical analysis of widely 
advertised hair dyes and washes for 
bleaching, darkening, or otherwise 
changing the color of the hair dis- 
closes the presence of these mineral 
agents in practically every instance, 
notwithstanding the fact that in all 
cases the proprietors announce that 
the preparations are " harmless." 
Among the injurious substances rec- 
ommended are the following: 

Nitric, muriatic, and sulphuric 
acids; bismuth; lead, as litharge and 
the acetate or sugar of lead, etc.; 
antimony, silver (usually the ni- 
trate), potassium, baryta, iron, tin, 
copper, etc. These metals are rec- 
ommended in the form of various 
salts, as sulphates, acetates, chlorides, 
and the like. They are each and all 



494 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



vicious in principle and injurious in 
practice, and those who knowingly or 
unknowingly recommend them should 
be regarded with suspicion. 

To Prevent Gray Hair. — A pre- 
ventive against grayness of the hair 
has already been mentioned, i. e., the 
yolk of egg. Preparations containing 
neat's-foot oil are also beneficial for 
darkening the hair. The action of 
hair dyes in pomades is necessarily 
slow, and they must be used daily or 
frequently until the proper results 
have been secured. Compounds con- 
taining vegetable ingredients are bet- 
ter than those containing mineral 
ones. Among materials which are 
relatively harmless are stains from 
walnut shells and green walnuts, 
which gradually dye light hair to 
dark-brown shades. These have to be 
used constantly, as the color is not 
durable. These stains cannot be used 
in the form of pomades. Henna and 
indigo powders produce various 
shades from yellow to dark brown, 
and other compounds and substances 
are mentioned below. " Chemical 
blondes " wash the hair with greatly 
diluted hydrogen peroxide. When 
dyes are applied to the hair it should 
first be thoroughly cleansed of its 
natural oils and other foreign sub- 
stances. This may be done by wash- 
ing the hair with a mixture contain- 
ing one fourth part of chloroform 
and three fourths of alcohol. Gloves 
should be worn, and the dye worked 
into the hair with a comb and a clean 
toothbrush. 

Or mix 1 part of bay rum, 3 parts 
of neat's-foot oil, and 1 part of 
French brandy by measure. Use this 
as a hair wash daily. Shake well be- 
fore applying. 

Or into 1 gallon of new milk put 
2 quarts of the green tendrils of the 
grapevine. Add 2 pounds of honey 
and a handful of rosemary. Simmer 
slowly until the bulk is reduced 
about one half. Strain through a 
linen cloth and apply to the hair fre- 
quently. 

An excess of lime in the system is 
said to have a tendency to make the 



hair brittle and cause it to split and 
crack. This, by admitting air to the 
hair, is the most common cause of 
grayness. Hence hard water for 
drinking purposes should be avoided, 
or softened by means elsewhere rec- 
onmiended. 

Walnut Hair Dye. — Press the juice 
from the bark or shells of green wal- 
nuts. Add a small quantity of recti- 
fied alcohol and a little allspice or a 
few cloves. Let the mixture stand for 
a week or ten days and shake occa- 
sionally. Filter through a Unen cloth 
and add a small amount of common 
salt as a preservative. Keep in a cool, 
dark place. 

Yellow Hair Dye. — BoU 1 or 3 
ounces of pure annotto in 1 pint of 
soft or distilled water, adding a pinch 
of baking soda. This gives the hair 
a golden yellow, which, however, va- 
ries according to its strength and the 
original color of the hair. Washing 
the hair in a solution of alum water 
deepens the color. The application of 
a solution of lemon juice or vinegar 
after the use of this dye reddens the 
hair or gives it an orange color. 

Black or Brown Hair Dye. — Boil 2 
ountes of black tea in 1 gallon of wa- 
ter. Strain through a linen cloth. 
Add 2 or 3 ounces of glycerin, i 
ounce of tincture of cantharides, and 
1 quart of bay rum. Let the mixture 
stand 48 hours, shaking occasionally, 
and perfume with any essential oil 
preferred. 

Black Hair Dye. — ^Mix juice of 
green walnuts as above described with 
neat's-foot oil, using about 1 part of 
the oil to 4 parts of walnut juice ac- 
cording to the amount of natural oil 
present in the hair. 

B,ed Hair Dye. — ^Make a strong de- 
coction of safilowers or of alkanet by 
boiling either in water to which a 
small amount of baking soda has been 
added. This gives the hair a bright- 
red or reddish-yellow color, accord- 
ing to its strength. When the hair is 
dry after this application, wash with 
a solution of lemon juice or vinegar 
mixed with an equal quantity of 
water. 



HAIRDRESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 495 



Or, to darken red hair, mix 1 dram 
each of oil of nutmeg and rosemary, 
1 ounce of castor oil, 2 drams of tinc- 
ture of cantharides, and 8 ounces of 
French brandy. Work a teaspoonful 
or more of this Into the hair each day 
with a moderately stiff brush, brush- 
ing 12 to 30 minutes. 

OTHEB HAIB TOPICS 

Superfluous Hair. — There is no 
known method which Is entirely sat- 
isfactory for removing superfluous 
hairs. Among the various methods 
recommended are shaving, plucking 
out the hairs with tweezers, the use 
of the electric needle, and various de- 
pilatories. The active principle in 
these compounds is usually chloride 
of lime, quicklime, or sulphide of ar-' 
senic. These cause the hair shafts to 
fall out, but do not affect the root of 
the hair, and hence must be frequent- 
ly repeated. These substances are 
strong irritants and unless handled 
intelligently may create ugly ulcers. 

Shaving stimulates the growth of 
the hair and by thickening it in- 
creases the discoloration caused by 
the ends of the hair shafts showing 
through the skin. Plucking the hairs 
perseverlngly by the roots, the skin 
having been previously softened and 
prepared by the application of a 
suitable toilet emulsion, is perhaps 
the most satisfactory method. 

A competent operator supplied 
with the proper apparatus can re- 
move superfluous hair permanently by 
means of the electric needle. The 
electrode from the positive pole of 
the battery Is attached to the back of 
the patient's neck or other convenient 
spot. A three-cornered electric nee- 
dle with sharp cutting edges is at- 
tached to the negative pole of the 
battery. This is inserted into the 
skin, alongside the hair, care being 
taken not to penetrate too deeply. 
When the current is applied the nee- 
dle becomes hot and causes bubbles 
of froth to appear at the point where 
it is inserted. The needle is then 
turned so that the sharp corners 



scrape the adjacent surfaces, and the 
process is continued until the hair is 
loosened and destroyed. The result- 
ing scar is so slight as to be hardly 
noticeable, and if the operation is 
properly conducted the results are 
sure and permanent. The following 
are standard recipes for depilatories. 
These are severe remedies, and should 
be employed only with caution and 
due regard to what has been said 
above. 

Spread equal quantities of galba- 
num and pitch plaster on a piece of 
soft chamois leather. Lay it smooth- 
ly on the superfluous hair and let it 
remain three or four minutes. It may 
then be pulled off, hair and all. The 
inflamed skin may then be rubbed 
with olive oil. 

Or pulverize finely in a mortar 1 
ounce of fresh limestone and 1 dram 
of pure potassa. Soak the parts for 
10 minutes in warm water, so as to 
soften the superfluous hairs. Form a 
paste of thie above powder with warm 
water, apply with a brush, and re- 
move after 5 or 6 minutes or as soon 
as the skin begins to be Inflamed. To 
remove this paste, wash it away with 
vinegar. This softens the skin and 
neutralizes the alkali. 

Or mix equal quantities of sul- 
phuret of calcium and quicklime pul- 
verized to a fine powder. Apply pre- 
cisely as for the preceding. The 
action is quicker. Hence it should be 
removed after two or three minutes 
in the same manner as the last. 

To Curl the Hair. — Preparations 
recommended for curling the hair are 
usually based upon various more or 
less adhesive substances, as gum ara- 
ble, quince mucilage, beeswax, sper- 
maceti, and the like, mixed with va- 
rious oils and diluted with alcohol or 
water. They may be perfumed ac- 
cording to taste. Specific curling 
pr9perties are claimed for beeswax, 
oU of origanum, mastic, and carbo- 
nate of potassium. 

It is also said that when the hair is 
clipped, as is sometimes done with 
children or after a serious illness, if 
the head is shaved "against the 



496 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



grain " the hair will come in curly or 
wavy. The use of the egg shampoo 
elsewhere recommended also has the 
same tendency. 

The following recipes are recom- 
mended: 

Put in a double boUer 1 ounce of 
oil of sweet almonds, 1 dram of sper- 
maceti, wWte wax, or beeswax, and 
dissolve with very gentle heat. Re- 
move from the fire, stir in 3 drams of 
tincture of mastic. Bottle and cork 
tightly until wanted. Apply a small 
quantity and arrange the hair loosely. 
This is a French preparation and a 
commercial article of considerable 
reputation. 

Or mix 13 ounces of olive oil, 1 
dram of origanum, and 1 dram of oil 
of rosemary. Bottle and cork tightly 
untU wanted. Apply every other day. 

Or melt a piece of white beeswax 
about the size of a hickory nut in 1 
ounce of olive oil, and perfume with 
a few drops of oil of neroli. This is 
simple and efpective. 

Or beat up the yolk of an egg, rub 
it into the hair, and let dry. Rinse 
off with clear warm water and apply 
a little bandoline or pomade when 
arranging the curls. 

To Compound Curling Fluids. — 
Put the above solids or oils in a 
saucepan and simmer with gentle 
heat. When solids are melted or oil 
is well warmed, add other ingredients, 
except perfume. Strain, cool, and 
add perfume when nearly cold. 

Hair Powders. — The basis of pow- 
ders for the hair was formerly wheat 
starch, but potato farina is now more 
commonly used, as it is whiter and 
more lustrous. This is the ordinary 
plain hair powder of commerce, to 
which may be added for a black pow- 
der powdered charcoal or ivory black, 
or, for a sparkling effect, white frost- 
ing. Various perfumes are used ac- 
cording to taste. These may be used 
as a dry powder in the form of sa- 
chet, or they may be dropped on loaf 
sugar, which is afterwards pulverized 
in a mortar. 

The following preparations are rec- 
ommended ; 



Mix and sift together through a fine 
hair or other sieve 8 ounces of pow- 
dered wheat bran and 1 ounce of 
powdered orris root. 

Or mix 8 ounces of starch powder 
with 2 ounces of rose sachet. 

Or, for musk hair powder, mix 1 
scruple of musk with 3 pounds of 
wheat starch or farina. 

Or mix 12 ounces of starch or fa- 
rina with 3 ounces of powdered am- 
bergris; or 12 ounces of starch or 
farina with 3 ounces of violet sachet. 

Or, for a blond hair powder, mix 
4 ounces each of powdered starch or 
farina and powdered orris root; add 
1 ounce of powdered yellow ocher. 

Or, for a black hair powder, mix 4 
ounces each of powdered starch or 
farina and powdered orris root, and 
add i ounce each of powdered char- 
coal and ivory black. 

Or, for a sparkling effect, grind 
white frostings to a powder in a 
mortar. 

Compounding Hair Powders. — 
These powders are merely mechani- 
cal mixtures. The ingredients should 
be thoroughly mixed in a mortar or 
other suitable receptacle, or sifted 
through a fine hair or vrire sieve. 

TKE BEABD, STTSTACHE, AND 
SHAVING 

Care of the Beard. — Unless prop- 
erly cared for a full beard may seri- 
ously interfere with cleanliness. The 
beard should be frequently washed 
with soap, thoroughly dried, and 
treated with some simple prepara- 
tion. The object of care of the 
beard, as in the case of the hair, is 
to keep it clean and to preserve its 
normal luster. Lotions which have 
alcohol or other spirits as a base may 
be used once or twice a week to 
cleanse the beard of oily or fatty ma- 
terials that may have accumulated, 
and to clean the skin. These may be 
applied with a wash cloth and the 
beard afterwards rubbed dry with a 
towel. Frequent cutting or shaving 
of the beard has a tendency to make 
the individual hairs thick and short. 



HAIRDRESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 497 



It does not Increase their number. 
Singeing is harmful unless the hair 
is treated with oil or grease. Other- 
wise singeing tends to split the hair 
at the ends and to make it dry and 
brittle. Lanolin soap is perhaps the 
best soap for use on the hair and 
beard. 

How to Kaise a Mustache. — Stim- 
ulate the circulation by the applica- 
tion of hot towels, followed by rub- 
bing briskly with a. rough towel, 
and apply one of the following mix- 
tures: 

Alcohol, i pint; castor oil, J dram; 
tincture of cantharides, 1 ounce. 
Perfume with 20 to 40 drops of any 
of the essential oils, as cloves or ber- 
gamot, and 1 ounce of cologne or 
other essence. 

Or dissolve in 5 ounces of alcohol 
1 dram of compound tincture of ben- 
zoin, 1 dram of tincture of Spanish 
flies, and 3 ounces of castor oil, and 
perfume with 10 to 20 drops of any 
of the essential oUs. Do not use this 
mixture too frequently as it may in- 
flame the skin. 

Or melt with gentle heat 1 ounce 
of white wax or spermaceti, and stir 
in while hot IS drops of saturated 
tincture of cantharides. Remove 
from the flre, and when nearly cool 
perfume with 10 or 12 drops of any 
of the essential oUs. This is a pow- 
erful stimulant, but must not be em- 
ployed oftener than once or twice a 
week, as otherwise it may inflame the 
skin. 

Mustache Pomade. — Melt 4 ounces 
of white wax, and add 3 ounces of 
pure white vaseline and J ounce of 
Canada balsam. When nearly cold 
add about 30 drops of any essential 
oil or mixture according to taste. 
For coloring matters, see under " Hair 
Oils." 

Or dissolve J pound of white wax, 
J pound of lanolin soap, J pound of 
gvaa arable, and 4 pint of rose water. 
Melt and mix all together with gen- 
tle heat, and when cool perfume by 
adding 12 to 20 drops of essential 
oils according to taste. Color as rec- 
ommended under " Hair Oils." 



Shaving. — Those who shave should 
make it a practice to do so daily, or 
at least every other day. Some men 
complain that tMs practice makes 
the skin sore, but this will not be the 
case if a good razor is used, if it is 
kept in good order, and if the razor 
strokes are always in the same direc- 
tion, never against the grain of the 
beard. The use of a good lotion 
after shaving is another preventive of 
soreness. A good toilet soap for 
shaving is indispensable. Shaving 
sticks or cream which can be rubbed 
on the face without the use of the 
shaving miig are a great conveni- 
ence, especially to those who travel. 
It should be borne in mind that the 
skin and hair absorb warm water 
freely, and swell and soften under 
its influence, and that this effect is 
greatly promoted by the use of soap. 
The more time spent in softening the 
face by the application of lather the 
better. The razor should be dipped 
in hot water before using. 

Safety Bazors. — The modern cus- 
tom of using safety razors is most 
commendable. These convenient lit- 
tle implements have now been so per- 
fected as to give entire satisfaction. 
A number of separate blades are 
sold with each razor, and additional 
blades can be had at a very, low 
price. These blades can be stropped 
by means of a special device, or re- 
turned by mail to the manufacturer 
to be honed, or thrown away when 
they become dulled by use. T^he lux- 
ury of having a set of seven razors — 
one for each day in the week — ^has 
often been suggested in books and 
otherwise to persons who have felt 
that they were hardly able to afford 
it. But the safety razor is a means 
of bringing this luxury within the 
reach of all. It is always ready 
without honing or stropping, can be 
used without the best of light, is en- 
tirely safe, is economical, and has 
made a multitude of friends for it- 
self within recent years. Millions of 
these little implements are being 
manufactured, and the problems of 
how to get a good razor and how to 



498 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



keep it in good condition have there- 
by been greatly simplified. It is ad- 
visable to buy only the best-known 
make of safety razor, patronizing the 
makers who advertise most extensive- 
ly in leading periodicals, so as to in- 
sure obtaining a thoroughly satisfac- 
tory article. 

To Strop Bazors. — Comparatively 
few persons seem to imderstand the 
theory of stropping a razor. The 
cutting edge of a razor should be in 
the form of a V, the sides of the V 
being perfectly flat and not roimd. 
The object of honing to produce this 
angle, and that of stropping, is to 
keep the edge perfect in overcoming 
Its tendency to become round as a 
result of wear. The strop, therefore, 
should be held in such a way that the 
leather wUl bear with equal pressure 
on every part of the straight sides of 
the V which terminates in the edge. 
Barbers are able by constant prac- 
tice to hold a loose strop in such » 
way as to accomplish this purpose 
with little apparent effort, but nov- 
ices are very apt to allow the strop 
to move and to strike it with the ra- 
zor in such a way as to round the 
edge, and do more harm by strop- 
ping than good. Hence a novice will 
usually accomplish the best results 
by' means of a strop glued flat on a 
piece of wood. The razor should be 
stropped carefully both before and 
after using until it will cut a hair 
held loosely in the fingers, and before 
it is put away in its case it should be 
wiped dry with a clean, dry towel. 
If any moisture is left on the edge 
the steel will rust and may be ruined. 

Much of the satisfaction of the use 
of an ordinary razor depends upon 
the strop and its condition. If the 
strop is purchased, only the best 
quality should be obtained, and it is 
better to prepare a paste for the' 
strop than to buy a preparation for 
this purpose, as many of those adver- 
tised for sale are entirely unreliable. 

Razor Strop. — A good razor strop 
may be made at home by anyone 
having a little ingenuity which will 
give at least as good satisfaction as 



the purchased article. Take a piece 
of hard wood about 15 inches long, 
IJ inches wide, and 4 inch tliick. Al- 
low 3 inches or more for handle. Se- 
lect a piece of horsehide or calfskin 
the width of the wood, and notch the 
wood to the depth of the leather at 
about i inch from the handle, so that 
the leather can be set in flush with 
the surface of the wood. Attach a 
piece of canvas to the other side, and 
the strop is done. The razor should 
be stropped first on the canvas and 
afterwards on the leather. 

To Keep a Bazor Strop in Order. 
— Various methods of keeping a strop 
in order are recommended. Fine 
mutton taUow or a few drops of 
sweet oil rubbed into the surface of 
the strop and a little very finely 
powdered emery dusted over the sur- 
face is perhaps the most satisfactory 
dressing. The snuffings of candle 
wicks in place of the emery are also 
recommended. Other recipes for ra- 
zor paste are suggested below. 

Preparations for Razor Strops. — 
The articles used for giving an edge 
to a razor are flour of emery, ground 
coke, and oxide of tin or prepared 
putty. Any of the following will be 
found more satisfactory than most 
preparations on sale, and a great 
deal cheaper: 

Mix fine flour of emery with mut- 
ton taUow or white wax or beeswax. 
If the emery is not fine enough, 
pound and grind it in a mortar. Put 
the whole into a large open-mouthed 
bottle, fiU it two thirds full of water, 
cork, and shake. Allow it to come to 
rest, and when the coarser particles 
have fallen to the bottom, turn off the 
water with the finer particles into a 
shallow pan. When the water has 
evaporated, the emery dust remain- 
ing will be found of suitable fineness. 

Or collect the grit from a fine 
grindstone as it gathers in the form 
of paste on the blade of an ax or 
scythe. Shake in water, and treat as 
above suggested for emery. If the 
quality of the grindstone is suitable, 
this will prove an excellent razor 
paste. 



HAIRDRESSING BOtH FOR MElSr AND WOMEN 499 



Or mix 1 ounce of levigated oxide 
of tin or prepared putty with a satu- 
rated solution of oxalic acid to form 
a thick paste. If convenient, add 30 
grains of gum arable dissolved in 
water. Rub tUs composition evenly 
over the strop and let it dry. Damp- 
en slightly before using. Oxalic acid 
has a strong affinity for iron, which 
is, of course, increased by moisture, 
and very slight friction with this 
preparation will give a razor a good 
edge. 

Or coke prepared as above recom- 
mended for emery is said to be the 
true " diamond dust " for sharpen- 
ing purposes. The above prepara- 
tions, the materials of which cost 
practically nothing, are often sold 
at from twenty-five to fifty cents a 
box. 

Or melt togethei; equal parts of 
good tallow and lard, thicken with 
finely powdered charcoal, make into 
cakes, wrap in tinfoil, and sell for 
ten cents. To color red and to thick- 
en, use princess metallic, such as 
painters use. 

To improve the quality, get a little 
olive oil and thicken it with the me- 
tallic in one box. In another box put 
a little of the oil and thicken with 
charcoal. Put the red on one side of 
the strop and the black on the other 
side. First strop on the black side, 
then finish on the red side. 

Barber's Itch. — This disease is sup- 
posed to be caused by a microscopic 
fimgus, the trichophyton. The symp- 
toms are the appearance of small red 
pimples with yellow tops, each of 
which is pierced by a hair. The dis- 
ease often takes a chronic form and 
sometimes causes the skin to become 
hard and covered with crusts. There 
is another type which is not caused 
by the presence of the trichophyton, 
but it is difficult to tell one from the 
other. It is desirable in this disease 
to keep the beard shaved, wash thor- 
oughly with soap, and use simple 
ointments and soothing solutions. 
The disease is very obstinate, and it 
is always advisable to consult a phy- 
sician. 



lewis's Toilet Water for Shav- 
ing. — The' following is recommended 
as a cheap and agreeable toilet water 
to use as a face wash after shaving: 

Fill any size bottle you wish with 
95 per cent alcohol, and add as much 
boracic acid as the alcohol will cut, 
usually about IS per cent. If a little 
of the boracic acid is not dissolved 
and settles at the bottom of the mix- 
ture, it will not do any harm. Add a 
few drops of any of the essential oils, 
or perfume with cologne or otherwise 
according to taste. This mixture is 
not only soothing and refreshing, but 
it also assists in healing any local ir- 
ritation caused by shaving. It is es- 
pecially useful to those who shave 
every day. 

TOILET FBEFABATIONS FOB MEIT 

Shaving Creams. — The base of 
creams, pastes, or soap for shaving is 
usually a good, hard white castile or 
other soap mixed with white wax or 
spermaceti, and with the addition of 
almond, olive, etc., or palm oil, 
honey, and various cosmetics, as 
benzoin, glycerin, etc. Substances 
having cleansing properties, as car- 
bonate potassa and borax, are some- 
times included. Alcohol or other 
spirits are employed to cut the oils, 
and various perfumes are added 
later. 

To Compound Shaving Creams. — 
These compounds are all prepared by 
dissolving the solids with gentle heat 
in a double boiler, adding the soap in 
shavings, stirring in the almond oil 
and various remedial agents while 
hot, and when nearly cold adding 
volatile substances, such as spirits of 
turpentine, and any of the essential 
oils to perfume according to taste. 
Solid soaps used as a base of these 
compounds should be exposed to the 
air until dry, then reduced to fine 
shavings or powder. Or, if alcohol is 
used, the soap may first be cut in the 
alcohol. The whole mixture, after 
being removed from the fire, should 
be thoroughly beaten with an egg 
beater or otherwise until it has a 



500 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



SHAVING CREAMS 





6 




O 


1 


i 


1 




S 




s 

n 


a 




1 

1 


g 

O 


White Wax.. 




i oz. 








Idr. 




2oz. 




i oz. 








Spennaceti.. . 




ioz. 












ioz. 




i oz. 








Hard White 




























Soap 


3oz. 


2o2. 


3 1b. 


3 1b. 




2oz. 


2oz. 


2oz. 


2oz. 






2oz. 


3 lb. 


Castili Soap. 








lib. 










4 oz. 




1 OZ. 


4 oz. 


lib. 


Soap Jelly.. . 










lib. 


4oz. 










3oz. 






Almond OU. . 




ioz. 










2oz. 






i oz. 








Olive Oil 












1 oz. 




2oz. 












PahnOil 






lib. 






















Honey 


















Ioz. 


4oz. 




Ioz. 




Alcohol 


8oz. 








lipt. 


















Rose Water... 


4oz. 


q. s. 


12 oz. 


Iqt. 




4oz. 


1 oz. 


q. s. 


q. o. 


q. =. 






12 oz. 


Sal. Soda 






1 oz. 






2 dr. 


1 oz. 


2oz. 












Garb. Potassa 


Idr. 


























Sp. Turp 








IgUI 


















1 oz. 


Beef's GaU... 








ipt. 




















Any Essen- 




























tial Oil 


10 m. 




120 m. 








q. s. 


20 m. 


30 m. 


10 m. 


10 m. 


18 m. 


100 m. 



perfectly smooth and uniform consist- 
ency. A small quantity of any of 
these shaving creams may be rubbed 
on the face and worked up to a 
lather with a wet shaving brush. If 
properly prepared they vriU give a 
good lather with either hot or cold 
water, that wiU not dry during the 
time required for shaving. 

Bay Kum. — This fragrant liquid is 
obtained by distilling with rum the 
leaves of a number of large trees of 
the myrtle family, growing in Ja- 
maica and the West Indian islands. 
It is not only very refreshing but it 
acts as a tonic and tends to prevent 
taking cold. Bay rum may be pre- 
pared from the oil of bay diluted 
with rum or other spirit, and with 
the addition of various cosmetics and 
perfumes as desired. 

For a cheap bay rum, take J pound 
of carbonated magnesia in lumps, 
and pour the spirit on it drop by 
drop until it is all saturated. Now 
crush the lumps on a marble slab or 
a piece of clean zinc with a rolling 
pin or otherwise. Put this in a filter 
and pour Over equal parts of water 
and alcohol until the desired quan- 
tity and strength of bay rirai is ob- 
tained. 



Or dissolve S cents' worth of pow- 
dered magnesia in 1 quart of SO per 
cent alcohol, and add 1 ounce of oil 
of bay. Put in a filter, bottle, and 
cork tightly until needed. Dilute 
with soft water as desired. 

Or add 6 ounces of extract of bay 
to 1 gallon of SO per cent alcohol. 

Or mix IJ fluid drams of oil of 
bay, i fluid dram of oil of pimento, 
J ounce of acetic ether, and 1 dram 
of Castile soap in shavings with 3 
pints of alcohol. Add 3 pints of 
soft or distilled water. This is a 
standard preparation for barbers' 
use. 

Or, dissolve in J pint of 95 per 
cent alcohol J dram of oil of bay, 3 
drops of oil of nutmeg, and J dram 
of oil of orange. Add 2 ounces of 
Jamaica rum and sufficient water to 
make of the whole 1 quart. 

To Compound Bay Bum. — These 
are for the most part simple mix- 
tures. Magnesia should be first dis- 
solved in soft water and the other in- 
gredients added. The solution may 
afterwards be filtered by means of 
filter paper or fine linen. It is desir- 
able, when convenient, to allow these 
mixtures to stand for two or three 
weeks before filtering. If they can. 



HAIRDRESSING BOTH FOR MEN AND WOMEN 501 



be shaken occasionally during the 
period, so much the better. 

Bandoline. — These preparations are 
employed to adjust the hair and keep 
it in place. Hence they are based 
upon substances which have a slight- 
ly adhesive character, including gum 
tragacanth, paste of quince seed, 
isinglass, Irish moss, and the like. 

Bring to a boil in a double boiler 
i pint of soft or distilled water; stir 
In 1 tablespoonful of cold-drawn lin- 
seed oil, and boil for 5 minutes. Let 
cool, add any desired perfimie, and 
put in a glass fruit jar until required 
for use. 

Or place in a quart fruit jar IJ 
ounces of gum tragacanth, and add 

1 quart of rose water. Let stand 2 
or 3 days, shaking frequently, and 
squeeze through a coarse white linen 
cloth. Let stand 3 or 3 days more 
and repeat. Finally add 10 or 13 
drops of attar of rose, and tint with 
an infusion of alkanet wood, cochi- 
neal, or other red coloring matter. 

Or boil i ounce of clean Irish moss 
in 1 quart of water until it thickens; 
add 4 ounces of 95 per cent alcohol 
as a preservative. 

Or boil i ounce of quince seed un- 
til it thickens. Strain through a 
piece of cheese cloth, put in a double 
boUer; add 1 pint of soft water, 
bring to a boil, and stir in 1 table- 
spoonful of linseed oil. Let boil 5 
minutes, remove, and add 10 drops 
of the oil of bitter almonds or other 
essential oil to perfume. 

Brilliantine. — These preparations 
are employed to give luster to the 
hair and beard when the natural oils 
are deficient or are temporarily re- 
moved by shampooing. 

Put in a glass bottle 3 ounces of 
alcohol, 1 ounce of pure honey, and J 
oimce of glycerin. Shake well and 
perfume with any of the essential 
oils or essences. 

Or dissolve 4 ounce of castor oil in 

2 ounces of cologne. Or mix equal 
parts of cologne and glycerin. Or 
dissolve 1 ounce of honey and 3 
oimces of alcohol. 

Or put in a glass bottle 6 ounces 



of castor oil; add 3 ounces of 96 
per cent alcohol, and J ounce of am- 
monia. Shake well and perfvime 
with any essential oil according to 
taste. This is the celebrated French 
" lustral." 

Compounding Brilliantine and 
Bandoline. — Such substances as gum 
tragacanth, quince seed, isinglass, 
and Irish moss may be dissolved by 
boiling in hot water until sufficiently 
thick. They should be allowed to 
stand on the dregs from twenty- 
four to forty-eight hours, squeezed 
through a coarse linen cloth, melted, 
and perfumed after cooling but be- 
fore they have finally set. Boil lin- 
seed oil in water for five or six min- 
utes. Perfume when cool. 

Melt Burgundy pitch with white 
wax, cool slightly, mix in the spirits, 
replace on the fire, and bring to a 
boil. Remove, and strain through 
linen. 

Eyebrows and Eyelashes. — In gen- 
eral the less attention paid to these 
features the better. The practice of 
attempting to deepen the color of 
the eyes by darkening the lids or 
lashes is a dangerous one, and many 
of the preparations advertised for 
sale for this purpose contain lead or 
other poisonous ingredients. Any 
preparation which is good for the 
hair is also good for the eyebrows 
and may be applied to them at the 
same time. 

A simple lotion consists of sulphate 
of quinine, 5 grains; alcohol, 1 ounce. 
Preparations containing cantharides 
are also of assistance. 

Clipping the eyelashes is, on the 
whole, a dangerous practice, as it 
tends to thicken them and cause 
them to become stiff like bristles. 
The presence of superfluous hairs 
causing the eyebrows to rim together 
caUs for remedies given elsewhere. 

A stick of India ink is perhaps the 
best method of darkening the eye- 
lashes if that is thought desirable. 

Or burnt cork is sometimes em- 
ployed. 

Or cloves charred to a crisp in an 
open flame. 



CHAPTER XIX 



THE TEETH 



THE TEETH— DENTEFBICES— THE BREATH— TOOTHACHE— TOOTH- 
ACHE REMEDIES. 



THE TEETH 

Good Teeth. — Modern dentistry has 
greatly assisted in causing tlie pub- 
lic to realize tiie value of a set of 
good teeth, but much still remains to 
be done in this direction. Medical 
inspectors in the public schools of 
large cities report that a very large 
percentage of school children have 
poor teeth due to the ignorance or 
neglect of parents. Good teeth are 
necessary to health, speech, and 
beauty. 

From the standpoint of health, it 
must be remembered that the process 
of digestion begins in the mouth. 
This fact is the basis of the system 
of hygiene known as Fletcherism. 
The originator of this system, after 
having become a chronic dyspeptic, 
cured himself at an advanced age by 
attention to two principles: never 
eating when not hungry, and chewing 
food untU all the taste is chewed out 
of it and it disappears without con- 
scious effort of swallowing. The im- 
portance of this last is due to the 
fact that the saliva of the mouth has 
the property of converting starchy 
foods into sugar, thus aiding diges- 
tion. And the further fact that food 
finely divided by proper chewing is 
more readily acted upon by the gas- 
tric juice of the stomach. Good teeth 
are, of course, necessary to good 
chewing. If any of the teeth are lost; 
part of the food is likely to be swal- 
lowed without being properly chewed, 
and the ill effects are no less certain 



because they are not always immedi- 
ately noticed or attributed to the 
true source. 

The teeth play an important part 
in pronunciation, and their loss often 
causes a difBculty in speech which, in 
the case of chUdren, at the age when 
they • are learning to pronounce their 
words, may have the effect of retard- 
ing the child's mental development. 

Apertures caused by the loss ot 
teeth, or irregularities due to the 
permanent teeth coming in unevenly, 
are life-long disfigurements. For all 
of these reasons, intelligent and 
painstaking attention to the teeth is 
perhaps the most important single 
subject in connection with the toilet. 

Bad Teeth. — ^Decayed teeth show- 
ing cavities in the crown, or having 
decayed roots, are not only painful, 
offensive in appearance and in con- 
taminating the breath, but frequently 
are the direct causes of serious dis- 
turbances of digestion. The tem- 
perature of the mouth is about 96° F. 
or considerably above that of ordi- 
nary summer weather. The humidity 
of the mouth is, of course, high. 
Under these conditions, experience 
teaches that fresh meat and other 
organic matter will decay very rap- 
idly. Hence, particles of food lodged 
in cavities or between the teeth, if 
not removed, decay and afford breed- 
ing places for the bacteria of filth 
diseases. These are swallowed with 
food and upon occasion of any irrita- 
tion of the digestive tract, find lodg- 
ment and give rise to indigestion and 



BQZ 



THE TEETH 



503 



other troubles. These substances also 
contaminate the breath and become 
highly offensive to others. So that 
absolute cleanliness is an imperative 
duty that everyone owes to himself 
and also to his neighbor. 

Moreover, if any of the teeth are 
unsound and painful the adjacent 
teeth are not likely to be used in the 
process of chewing, and the conse- 
quence is imperfect digestion. The 
remedy for these conditions is two- 
fold: personal cleanliness and other 
hygienic measures, and prompt treat- 
ment by a good dentist as soon as the 
first symptoms of decay appear. 

Structure of the Teeth. — The outer 
structure of the tooth consists of 
three parts: the root, which is con- 
tained in the bony substance of the 
jaw; the neck, which is contained in 
the gum, and the crown, which is the 
exposed portion. In the interior of 
each tooth is a cavity which contains 
the pulp, a pale-red soft substance 
composed of nerves and blood vessels. 
The surface of the root of the tooth 
is covered by a thin membrane called 
the periosteum, which, when the teeth 
decay, frequently becomes inflamed 
and is one of the causes of toothache. 

Infant's Teeth. — Fasten a bit of 
absorbent cotton on the point of an 
orange stick or a piece of soft pine 
wood. Dip it in a 5 per cent solu- 
tion of boric acid, and with this 
cleanse the mUk teeth of children as 
soon as they appear. 

Or wind a piece of cotton around 
the finger and, dip it in a S per cent 
solution of boric acid or a dilute, so- 
lution of listerine. 

As soon as the full set of milk 
teeth, consisting of twenty teeth, or 
five on each half of each jaw, have 
all come in, a soft toothbrush should 
be used daily. Otherwise the milk, 
which forms such an important part 
of a child's diet, will be deposited be- 
tween the teeth and become trans- 
formed into lactic acid. This tends 
to destroy the enamel and cause 
decay. 

Two important facts regarding 
children's teeth are often overlooked. 



and much mischief results. One is 
that the first permanent teeth usually 
appear about the sixth or seventh 
year. The other is that several of 
the milk teeth are retained until 
about the twelfth year. This over- 
lapping of the two sets of teeth 
makes early and constant care im- 
perative. The first permanent teeth 
must, of course, have attention if 
they are to be preserved, and the 
milk teeth that are retained must be 
kept in good order to insure proper 
digestion during the period of most 
rapid growth of the child. 

Teeth of Children. — One of the 
most common causes of trouble with 
the teeth in after life is the mistaken 
notion that children's teeth do not 
require very much attention because 
they will soon be lost and replaced 
by others. Childrtin, on the contrary, 
should be taught to clean their teeth 
at a very early age, partly because 
they will thus acquire a habit which 
it will afterwards be more difficult 
to teach them, but more especially 
because the lack of proper develop- 
ment or decay of the milk teeth has a 
direct effect upon the health of the 
child, and an indirect effect upon the 
permanent teeth themselves. 

The appearance of the milk teeth 
about the seventh month is a signal 
that the child should commence to 
have solid food and should no longer 
be fed exclusively on milk and other 
soft foods. And during the entire 
period when the milk teeth are com- 
ing in, children should be encouraged 
to .eat crackers and dry bread, and 
not allowed to discard the crusts. 
The resistance of coarse food in- 
creases the circulation of the blood 
and gives the necessary exercise to 
develop the gums and the jaw mus- 
cles that are necessary to proper 
chevring. All of this has a direct in- 
fluence in improving the quality of 
the permanent teeth. If the milk 
teeth show black spots or other evi- 
dence of decay, they should be at 
once treated, and filled, if necessary, 
with the same care as the permanent 
teeth. If they are suffered to decay. 



504 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the permanent teeth coming in their 
place will be likely to decay also. 

Care of the Teeth. — There are two 
cardinal rules in the care of the 
teeth: keep them clean and consult a 
good dentist. Few professions have 
arrived at a degree of proficiency 
equal to that of modern dentistry. 
In fact, the public does not generally 
realize what dentistry can and ought 
to do. The notion is far too preva- 
lent that the business of a dentist is 
to fill decayed teeth, or to pull them, 
and make' false teeth, crowns, or 
bridges to take their place. A very 
important part of the duty of a mod- 
ern dentist is to prevent the teeth 
from decaying. Hence it is most un- 
wise to postpone visiting a dentist 
until one's teeth commence to ache. 
On the contrary, a dentist should be 
consulted at least twice a year and 
oftener if necessary, and children, es- 
pecially, should be taken to a dentist 
quite frequently during the period 
when the milk teeth are being lost 
and the permanent teeth are coming 
in. 

An honest dentist will make no ex- 
orbitant charges or attempt to do 
work that is unnecessary. On the 
other hand, by keeping the teeth 
clean, filling smaU cavities when they 
first appear, correcting any malfor- 
mation of the teeth and giving advice 
as to suitable mouth washes and other 
treatment when abnormal conditions 
are present, a positive saving in fu- 
ture dentist's bills wiU be effected; 
toothache and the pain of pulling 
teeth and other dental work wUl be 
avoided, and the teeth themselves 
will be, as a rule, preserved intact 
with all of the attendant benefits. 

Tartar on the Teeth. — The accu- 
mulation of tartar in the form of a 
yellowish incrustation, which is usu- 
ally most plentiful on the inner side 
of the lower jaw, is almost universal. 
But the deposit is much more pro- 
nounced in some cases than in others. 
Tartar is not only objectionable in 
appearance, but also tends to push 
the gum away from the neck of the 
tooth, and thus expose the soft den- 



tine between the root and the harder 
enamel of the crown. In the course 
of years, the gimi will recede so far 
as to allow the tooth to fall out, even 
if it is kept perfectly clean and is 
thus protected from decay. The ac- 
cumulation of tartar cannot always 
be prevented by brushing the teeth, 
although the use of suitable tooth 
powders, pastes, or mouth washes 
will assist, but in all cases where the 
tartar is plentiful, the teeth should 
be thoroughly cleaned by a compe- 
tent dentist three or four times a 
year, and an astringent lotion, as a 
S per cent solution of chloride of 
zinc or a solution of alum in soft 
water, should be rubbed on the gums 
daily. 

Aside from the advice and services 
of a dentist, the teeth should be thor- 
oughly brushed and cleaned at least 
once a day, or better still when pos- 
sible after each meal, and especially 
before retiring at night. And the 
teeth of small children E^ould be 
cleaned for them before they are 
themselves old enough to form the 
habit of caring for them. 

Permanent Teeth are thirty-two in 
number, or eight on each half of each 
jaw. Two in the front center of the 
jaw are called incisors or cutting 
teeth, and appear in the eighth or 
ninth year. One, next in order, the 
canine or dog tooth, appears between 
the eleventh and fifteenth year. Two 
next, called premolars, appear be- 
tween the tenth and fifteenth year. 
Three last in the back part of the 
mouth are called molars, of which the 
first (as has already been mentioned) 
appears about the seventh year, the 
second between the thirteenth and 
sixteenth year, and the third, which 
is called the "wisdom" tooth, be- 
tween the eighteenth and twenty- 
sixth year. 

Care of the Permanent Teeth. — 
Chewing dry toast, crackers, hard 
bread or other coarse food, greatly 
assists in keeping the permanent 
teeth in good condition. But for the 
purpose of dislodging particles of 
food, removing tartar and other sub- 



THE TEETH 



505 



stances a good toothbrush is indis- 
pensable. A toothbrush having me- 
dium soft bristles is preferable to 
one having stiff bristles, which may- 
tend to injure or inflame the gum. 
The shape of the brush is not par- 
ticularly important, although the so- 
called "prophylactic" brush assists 
in dislodging food from the teeth in 
the back part of the mouth. What 
is more important is the manner in 
which the brush is handled. In ad- 
dition to the sidewise strokes, the 
brush should also be worked up and 
down so as to remove from between 
the teeth particles of food that would 




The Way the Brush is Handled." 



only be crowded in more tightly by 
rubbing back and forth. This is very 
important. The inner surface of the 
teeth should be brushed in the same 
manner, care being taken to cover, in 
brushing, every portion of the teeth 
that can be reached. The strokes of 
the brush should also cover the ad- 
jacent gums. This may cause them 
to bleed slightly at first, but in 
time they wUl harden and become 
strengthened. By promoting the cir- 
culation of blood, this will greatly 
improve the nutrition of the teeth 
and insure their permanency. 

Toothpicks. — Etiquette forbids the 
use of the toothpick in public. But 
a supply of quills or wooden tooth- 
picks of good quality should always 
be kept at hand at the toilet table. 
These should be used as frequently 
as possible after meals to remove 
particles of food that cannot be dis- 
lodged by the use of the brush. 
When, as sometimes happens, the 
formation of the teeth is such that a 
toothpick cannot be used to advan- 
tage, a piece of sUk thread, such as 
is used by dentists, can be procured 
at a drug store or dentist's ofSce. 
This will be found very useful for 



this purpose. After the use of the 
toothpick or thread, the mouth should 
be thoroughly rinsed, preferably 
with warm water, which has the prop- 
erty of dissolving foreign substances 
to, a greater extent than cold water 
would do. And, if possible, a good 
antiseptic mouth wa^h, such as per- 
oxide of hydrogen, should be used. 

Or use a strong solution of table 
salt in warm water. 

Care of the Toothbrush. — After 
using a toothbrush, rinse it carefully, 
wipe it dry on a clean towel and hang 
it up where it will be exposed to sun- 
ligh^ and a draught of air. Never 
keep a toothbrush in a, closed box or 
hang it up in a closet. Never lay 
down a wet toothbrush to dry, es- 
pecially on the back, as this allows 
the moisture to run along the bristles 
into the back of the brush, softens the 
glue with which they are fastened in, 
and causes them to decay and fall 
out. It is hardly necessary to say 
that no two persons should ever use 
the same toothbrush. 

DENTIFEICES 

This is a general term including 
aU tooth powders, pastes, and washes 
for the teeth. The principal ingredi- 
ents of these preparations are various 
substances in powdered form that are 
capable of exerting a gentle friction 
on the teeth and also have antacid, ab- 
sorbent, or other useful properties, as 
chalk, Armenian bole, cuttlefish bone, 
charcoal, orris root, and Peruvian 
bark. To these may be added mild 
alkalies, and other substances having 
deansing properties, as borax, bicar- 
bonate of soda, and castile soap; 
astringent substances as alum and 
tannic acid; and agreeable vehicles as 
powdered sugar, rock candy, honey, 
sirup, and sugar of milk. Any of 
these mixtures may be perfumed with 
a few drops of any of the essential 
oils or essences, or colored by the ad- 
dition of finely pulverized red coral, 
rose pink, cochineal, dragon's blood, 
or red Sanders for red; ocher for yel- 
low; indigo for blue or violet. Vari- 



506 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



ous other substances having specific 
properties too numerous to mention 
may be added. 

Prepared Chalk is the most univer- 
sally popular ingredient in tooth 
powders, as it is cheap, safe, and ef- 
fective, and tends to neutralize any 
acids that may be present in the 
mouth. 

Bole is an earthy substance similar 
to clay, which is found in veins and 
fissures of basalt and other rocks in 
various parts of the world. It has a 
greasy feeling when rubbed between 
the fingers, and is slightly sticky on 
the tongue. There are several kinds 
of bole found in different localities, of 
which the Armenian bole has a red tint 
and is used in tooth powders to im- 
part that color and also because of its 
absorbent and astringent properties. 

Magnesia. — Carbonate of magne- 
sia or " magnesia alba " is a white 
powder which is valuable because of 
its absorbent qualities and its power 
to neutralize acids that may be pres- 
ent in the mouth. It is used in medi- 
cine for acid dyspepsia. Hence it is 
entirely safe and a very effective in- 
gredient in tooth powder. 

Charcoal is a form of carbon ob- 
tained by charring wood or by heat- 
ing it in close vessels. Charcoal va- 
ries according to the method by 
which it is produced. The best char- 
coal for toilet purposes is areca-nut 
charcoal, but this is expensive and 
often adulterated. Next best is the 
sort of charcoal used as an ingredi- 
ent of gunpowder made of hard, non- 
resinous wood, or soft wood such as 
wUlow and poplar, by roasting in 
iron cylinders. Charcoal has an ex- 
traordinary capacity for absorbing 
gases. It cannot be melted or dis- 
solved in acids, will not decay, and is 
not affected by ordinary tempera- 
tures. It is a very poor conductor 
of heat. On account of its property 
of absorbing gases, it is used in medi- 
cine in certain forms of dyspepsia, 
also to preserve flesh or sweeten it 
when tainted. As an ingredient of 
tooth powders, it tends to sweeten 
and purify the breath. 



Cnttleflsh Bone. — This substance is 
the shell of a moUusk of world-wide 
distribution. It is sold in powdered 
form under the name of "pounce" 
for tooth powder and other purposes. 
It has some value in neutralizing 
acids, but is less valuable for this 
purp'ose than chalk or magnesia. It 
is also harsher in its scouring effect, 
for which reason it is, in small quan- 
tities, a valuable ingredient in tooth 
powders. It must, however, be finely 
powdered and used vyith caution. 

Myrrh. — This is a reddish-brown 
brittle substance obtained from the 
juice of a small tree growing in Ara- 
bia and vicinity. It occurs in resi- 
nous lumps, has a fragrant odor, and 
a bitter aromatic taste. It has beea 
used for ages, on account of its fra- 
grant perfume, as an ingredient in 
incense, perfimie, and salve. It acts 
as a tonic on the mucous membranes 
and hence is much used in mouth 
washes to harden and strengthen the 
gums and is good for sore throat and 
canker. 

Cinchona Bark, or Beruvian Bark, 
is obtained from a fragrant evergreen 
tree growing in South America which 
produces the alkaloid quinine of so 
much value in medicine. Quinine is 
an indispensable tonic in the cure of 
intermittent fevers and debilitating 
diseases. It is used in medicine prin- 
cipally in the form of the sulphate. 
And the bark itself is much less used 
than formerly. The pulverized bark 
has valuable tonic and astringent 
properties. 

Iris or Orris Boot. — This substance 
is a pulverized root of the common 
species of lily known as the flower de 
luce which is cultivated in the neigh- 
borhood of Florence for this sub- 
stance. It is particularly valuable 
for its violet-scented perfume. 

Coral. — This substance is a carbo- 
nate of lime obtained by grinding up 
the hard skeleton of the coral polyp 
which produces the Coral Islands. In 
ground form it has a quality similar 
to chalk, but as an ingredient for 
tooth powder is valued principally 
for its color. 



THE TEETH 



sor 



Other Ingredients. — In addition to 
the standard recipes for dentifrices 
given in the following tables, a nvim- 
ber of simple remedies may be men- 
tioned which are always at hand. 

Salt water in strong solution is a 
•useful mouth wash, and dry salt may 
also be applied by means of a brush 
to cleanse the teeth. 

Borax is also useful and tends to 
remove the smell of tobacco and 
other unpleasant odors from the 
breath. Dissolve 2 to 4 oimces of bo- 
rax in a pint of hot water and flavor, 
if convenient, with half a teaspoon- 
ful of tincture of myrrh or spirits of 
camphor. 

Castile Soap, or other neutral hard 
white soap, is good for the teeth. It 
may be applied^ by rubbing the cake 
of soap with a wet toothbrush, which 
may afterwards be dipped into a 
scented tooth powder to cover the 
slightly unpleasant taste. But the 
taste of castUe soap is not objection- 
able to those who have become ac- 
customed to it. 

To Whiten the Teeth. — Salt com- 
bined with peroxide of hydrogen is 
a powerful bleach. Apply by wet- 
ting the brush with the pure peroxide 
and sprinkle with dry salt, but do 
not use this oftener than is neces- 
sary. 

Tooth powders containing charcoal 
assist in whitening the teeth. A lit- 
tle dry charcoal powder may be 
rubbed gently into the crevices be- 
tween the teeth on retiring at night, 
and brushed or rinsed out thoroughly 
in the morning. The use of bicarbo- 
nate of soda as a tooth powder has 
the same property. 

Mix 1 ounce of chloride of lime, 10 
ounces of prepared chalk, i ounce of 
Peruvian bark, 1 teaspoonful of tinc- 
ture of myrrh. Use once a day until 
the teeth are sufficiently whitened. 
Afterwards use an ordinary tooth 
powder. 

The juice of the common straw- 
berry is said to be a natural denti- 
frice which has the property of dis- 
solving tartar and sweetening the 
breath. 



Or, to remove tartar, dip the brush 
in powdered magnesia. 

Tooth Powder. — A good . tooth 
powder is a very necessary toilet ar- 
ticle, as it not only increases the effi- 
ciency of the brush, but also makes 
the operation of cleansing the teeth 
more agreeable, and hence tends to 
strengthen the habit. 

Standard tooth powders are based 
mainly upon some carbonate having 
a slightly alkaline quality. But care 
must be taken not to use the stronger 
alkalies, as they tend to irritate the 
gums and mucuous surfaces of the 
mouth. Many of the tooth powders 
of commerce, especially the cheaper 
sorts, contain substances that if used 
with hard water produce free alkali. 
This may have a very injurious effect 
upon the gums. Hence it is much 
better to buy the ingredients and 
make up a tooth powder for yourself, 
or have a recipe made up for you by 
a local druggist. Thus you will know 
exactly what ingredients it contains. 
The powders used in tooth powders 
must be very finely pulverized and 
free from gritty particles. Such sub- 
stances as ground oyster shells, pum- 
ice, cuttlefish bone, cigar ashes, and 
the' like, unless ground very fine in- 
deed, are unnecessarily coarse and 
gritty. Tooth powders may be col- 
ored at wUl, as the coloring matter 
does not affect their efficiency one 
way or the other. The addition of 
some agreeable perfume, as the oil of 
wintergreen, sassafras, or the like, 
may have a decided advantage in 
making children and others take 
more kindly to the frequent use of 
tooth powder. A word of caution is 
especially needed against the use of 
commercial tooth powders that rap- 
idly remove tartar and quickly give 
the teeth a snowy whiteness. To ac- 
complish these results they contain 
strong acids that wiU injure the 
enamel and make the last state of the 
teeth much worse than the first. 

To Compound Tooth Powders. — If 
charcoal or cuttlefish bone are used, 
they should be reduced to a very 
fine powder in a mortar, and may 



508 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



be improved by mixing witli water 
and allowing the coarser and heavier 
particles to settle. The finer parti- 
cles that settle more slowly may 



then be poured off without disturbing 
the sediment. The water may then be 
permitted to evaporate, thus leaving a 
resulting powder of the best quality. 



TOOTH POWDERS 





73 

u 

jl 


1 
1 


Jl 

II 


1 

tB 

■E 
o 


S 


1 

1 




1 

1 

■S 

1 




■B 

O 

:il 


■B 

O 

■3(S 


11 




Bole 


3oz. 
2 dr. 

1 oz. 

2 dr. 

ioz. 


1 part 
4 parts 

1 part 

1 part 
Ipart 


2oz. 
6oz. 

3oz. 

2 dr. 

lioz. 

3oz. 


lib. 

8oz. 
4oz. 

4oz. 
4oz. 


1 lb. 

1 lb. 
ilb. 
lib. 

Idr. 
i oz. 


lib. 

ilb. 
lib. 

2 1b. 
10 oz. 

10 oz. 


6oz. 

1 oz. 
i oz. 


ilb. 

4oz. 

idr. 
4oz. 


12 oz. 

2oz. 
2oz. 

2oz. 


8oz. 

8oz. 

lib. 

ilb. 
2ilb. 

12 oz. 
2 oz. 

IJdr. 

3oz. 


4oz. 
4oz. 
4 oz. 
4 oz. 

6oz. 
4oz. 


2oz. 
4 oz. 

1 oz. 

loz. 
2oz. 


4oz. 


Chalk 


4oz. 






Cuttlefish Bone 

Pulverized Sugar... 




Borax 




Garb, of Magnesia. . . 

Cream of Tartar 

Castile Soap 

Bicarbonate of Soda 

Pul. Camphor 

Sulphate Quinine. . . 
Myrrh 


2 oz. 




4 oz. 


Cassia Powder. 

Peruvian Bark 

Any Essential Oils. . 

Any Essences 

Hose Pink 


2oz. 
2oz. 
Idr. 







TOOTH PASTES 





1 

> 


1 

1 


5 

f 


1 

8 


1 

.1 
a 

3 


1 

1 


i 

s 


-.3 

r 


1 
1 


a 


(^ 


a 


s 

1 

1 


Honey(white) 
Chalk........ 

Charcoal 

Cuttlefish 

Bone 

Pow. Sugar... 
Castile Soap. . . 
Cream of Tar. . 
Bicar. of Soda. 
Burnt Alum . . 
Sal Ammoniac. 
Chlor. Potassa. 

Camphor 

Disulphate 

Quinine 

Tine. Opium. . 

Myrrh 

Orris Root 

Any Essential 

Oils 

Any Essences.. 

Drop Lake 

Rose Pink 

Red Coral 

Cochineal 

Alcohol 


q. s. 

3oz. 
2oz. 

loz. 
ioz. 


igal. 

4 oz. 

1 oz. 
loz. 

2oz. 
2oz. 


3oz. 
2oz. 

i oz. 

1 oz. 
ioz. 


8oz. 
8oz. 

IJdr. 

IJdr. 

Soz. 

Idr. 
idr. 


4oz. 
loz. 

idr. 
Idr. 

3oz. 
3 fl. dr. 


q. s. 
1 oz. 

1 oz. 
4 dr. 

Idr. 

2 dr. 


Soz. 
2oz. 

1 oz. 

10 d. 

idr. 
2fl.dr. 


q. s. 
4 dr. 
2 dr. 

2 dr. 

3 dr. 


Soz. 
4oz. 
2oz. 

lidr. 

lidr. 
q. s. 


4oz. 
1 oz. 
3oz. 

1 oz. 

2 dr. 


loz. 
2oz. 

eq.parts 

Idr. 
eq.parts 

loz. 


loz. 
2oz. 

idr. 

q. s. 
ioz. 


10 oz. 

1 oz. 

2oz. 
idr. 

4oz. 
1 oz. 



THE TEETH 



609 



Or, after the ingredients have been 
rubbed up together in the mortar as 
finely as possible, the whole may be 
rubbed through a very fine gauze 
sieve to remove the coarser particles. 
As tooth powders contain absorbent 
substances, they should be kept in 
tightly closed wide-mouthed bottles 
when not in use. 

Tooth Pastes. — ^Any of the ordi- 
nary tooth powders may be put up in 
the form of pastes by reducing tiiem 
to a very fine powder and mixing 
them with a little clarified honey or 
almond cream or simple sirup to a 
moderately stiff paste. Sufficient es- 



To compound tooth pastes, first 
rub up the dry materials to a very 
fine powder in a mortar, moisten 
slightly! with alcohol or perfumed 
toilet water, and add slowly enough 
honey or sirup to form a paste of the 
right consistency, beating aU the time 
with an egg beater or otherwise to 
thoroughly incorporate the materials. 
Or mix the mass on a piece of glass 
or marble or other smooth hard sur- 
face. Let stand twenty-four hours 
before sealing. 

mouth Washes. — The use of an 
antiseptic and scented mouth wash is 
very agreeable and is to be recom- 



WASHES 


FOR THE 


MOUTH AND 


GUMS 










1 


1 

Pi 


1 
g 


*5 

1 
4a 


s 

ii 

i 
1 


I 


1 

1 


o 


o 


<a o 

•as 

1 


1 

•a 


^ 
P 


Cuttlefish Bone 

Borax 


1 oz. 
3 dr. 

1 oz. 
3oz. 

Idr. 


15 gr. 

:dr. 

3oz. 


i oz. 
4oz. 

{ 

10 oz. 
2oz. 
■q. a. 


Joz. 
2oz. 

tinct. 
Idr. 

ijoz. 
20 d. 


lidr. 
lidr. 

} 

4 oz, 
1 oz. 
q. s. 


1 oz. 

2 dr. 

3oz. 
4oz. 


1 OZ. 

ioz. 

2oz. 

8oz. 
ipt. 


im. 

im. 
loz. 

ipt. 


ioz. 
2oz. 

q. S. 


Joz. 

1 oz. 
2oz. 


Idr. 

lfl.oz. 

1 fl. oz. 
1 fl. oz. 

ipt. 
q. s. 




Bitartrate of Potassa. . 
Tannic Acid 




Camphor 








Disulphate Quinine. . . . 












Tine, of Soap Bark 

Aqua Ammonia 








Sugar of Milk 






j tinct. 
lipt. 




Peruvian Bark 

Red Lake 








Water 




Alcohol 


ipt. 


Any Essential Oils 


5d. 
ipt. 











sential oils or alcohol to act as a pre- 
servative should be added, otherwise 
they are likely to ferment or effer- 
vesce. 

Or the ingredients may be mixed 
with cologne or lavender water or 
other perfumed toilet waters to the 
desired consistency. They should be 
tightly covered to exclude the air. 



mended especially after the use of a 
silk thread, toothpick, or toothjirush 
for cleansing the teeth. But it miist 
be carefully observed that the use of 
a mouth wash does not take the place 
of these mechanical agencies, all 
claims to the contrary by manufac- 
turers of various proprietary washes 
notwithstanding. A mouth wash 



510 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



should be agreeable and antiseptic in 
taste and odor, and should contain 
nothing injurious to the general 
health. 

Mouth washes are used with sev- 
eral objects in view, and the ingredi- 
ents recommended vary accordingly. 
Among these may be mentioned 
hardening and strengthening the 
gums, cleansing the teeth, neutraliz- 
ing the effects of acids and bacteria 
present in decayed teeth or particles 
of food, and sweetening and purify- 
ing the breath. Substances recom- 
mended for these various purposes 
are astringents, such as burnt alum, 
tannin, chloride of zinc, and lemon 
juice, which tend to harden the gums 
and prevent the bad effects of accu- 
mulation of tartar and scurvy; anti- 
septics, such as carbolic acid, perox- 
ide of hydrogen, and salt; bleaching 
substances, as chloride of soda and 
peroxide of hydrogen; cleansing 
agents, as castile soap, salts of tartar, 
and borax; perfume substances, as 
the various essences and toilet wa- 
ters. 

These preparations are simple mix- 
tures. Hence it is only necessary to 
give the various recipes in the table 
given on page 509. 

Peroxide of Hydrogen. — Peroxide 
of hydrogen is perhaps the most gen- 
erally efficient and satisfactory all- 
around mouth wash that can be used. 
If the peroxide is too active in its 
effects and causes the sensation de- 
scribed by athletes as "spitting cot- 
ton," it may be followed by a solu- 
tion of baking soda in water, which 
will neutralize its effects. This is a 
chemical substance consisting of di- 
oxide of hydrogen diluted with wa- 
ter. It is a limpid, colorless liquid 
having a slightly acid taste. It is 
similar in composition to water 
charged with oxygen, which is read- 
ily set free when in contact with any 
substance for which it has an affinity. 
Thus when applied to the mucous 
membrane, oxygen is set free, which 
actively attacks any foreign organic 
matter that may be present. It is 
used as a deodorant and an antisep- 



tic. Peroxide of hydrogen is also 
used for restoring paintings that 
have become dim by the effects of 
sulphur on the white lead contained 
in the original paints; as a hair 
bleach and for bleaching ostrich 
feathers, ivory, silk, wool, and cotton. 
It is used in medicine for the treat- 
ment of sores, sore throat, diphtheria, 
and as a mouth wash for bleaching 
the teeth and cleansing the gums and 
other mucous surfaces. It is at once 
the safest and most active substance 
known in medical science for these 
purposes, and its genered use is to be 
higUy recommended. 

THE BBEATH 

Foul breath is most often caused 
by decayed teeth, inflammation of the 
gums, or neglect to use the tooth- 
brush. It may also be caused by ca- 
tarrh or various diseases of the throat 
and stomach or other internal organs. 

Substances recommended for puri- 
fying the breath are essence of cam- 
phor, chloride of lime, tincture of 
myrrh, chloride of soda, chloride of 
potash, carbolic acid, and various 
substances designed to heal and 
strengthen diseased gums. In addi- 
tion, various perfumes are made up 
into pastilles to perfume the breath, 
but these are rarely effective in over- 
coming foul breath, are in themselves 
offensive to many, and their use may 
be obviated by suitable means to re- 
move the cause. 

One of the most effective remedies 
for foul breath iS a mouth wash com- 
posed of a teaspoonful of concen- 
trated solution of chloride of soda in 
a tumbler of water. This should be 
used as a gargle and also forced 
back and forth . between the teeth. 
Or, if foul breath is caused by stom- 
ach troubles, take 8 drops of the so- 
lution of chloride of soda in half a 
tumbler of soft water before break- 
fast. 

Or dilute a small quantity of bro- 
mochloralum with ten times its own 
bulk in water and use as a gargle. 

Or mix 30 drops of carbolic acid, 2 



THE TEETH 



511 



drams of alcohol, 6 ounces of salt 
water. Apply by moistening the 
toothbrush and afterwards dipping it 
into any good tooth powder. Rinse 
well with salt and water or other 
mouth wash. 

Or use any good mouth wash con- 
taining chloride of potash, tannin or 
tannic acid, myrrh or Peruvian bark. 
All of these are good for the gums 
and tend to prevent foul breath and 
like conditions. 

Or cWorine water obtained from a 
druggist and employed as a wash or 
gargle is helpful. Use a tablespoon- 
ful to half a tumbler of water. 

Or use as a mouth wash 3 drops of 
concentrated solution of permanga- 
nate of potash in a glass of water, or 
moisten a bit of cotton with this so- 
lution and insert it in the cavity of 
the tooth. 

Or to 4 ounces of fresh prepared 
limewater add 1 dram of Peruvian 
bark and use as a mouth wash night 
and morning. 

Or swaUow half a teaspoonful of 
powdered charcoal mixed with a lit- 
tle cold water. Or two or three char- 
coal tablets after each meal. 

Or use a tooth powder containing 
charcoal and one of the mouth washes 
mentioned above. If these are not 
efficacious, there is probably some or- 
ganic disease, and a physician should 
be consulted. 

Loose teeth or looseness of the 
teeth may be due to the effects of 
tartar, to diseases of the gimi, old 
age, or other causes. Use as a remedy 
an astringent mouth wash ' of a tea- 
spoonful of alum dissolved in a quart 
of soft water or any mouth wash con- 
taining myrrh, tannic acid, and simi- 
lar substances. 

To Eemove the Odor of Onions. — 
A cup of black coffee tends to re- 
move the odor of onions from the 
breath. 

Or parsley with vinegar is useful 
for this purpose. 

Or 4f or 5 drops of the concen- 
trated, solution of chloride of soda 
taken in 3 tablespoonfuls of cold 
water. 



Heath Pastilles to Perfume the 
Breath. — Mix 6 drams each of pow- 
dered chocolate and pulverized coffee 
with 4 drams of prepared charcoal, 4 
drams of pulverized lump sugar pre- 
viously saturated with 4 drops of ex- 
tract of vanilla, and make into loz- 
enges with gum tragacanth dissolved 
in water. This may be used freely to 
purify the breath. 

Or extract of licorice, 6 ounces; oil 
of cloves, 3 drams; oil of cinnamon, i 
dram. Mix and divide into 3-grain 
pills and coat them. 

Or place in a double boiler IJ 
ounces of extract of licorice, IJ oimces 
of water. When dissolved, stir in i 
ounce of catechu, J ounce of gum 
arable. Continue a gentle heat, stir- 
ring constantly until all the ingredi- 
ents are dissolved, then add IS drops 
each of mastic, cascariUa, charcoal, 
and orris, all in powdered form. Beat 
the whole with an egg beater or 
otherwise until thoroughly mixed. 
Remove from the fire and when near- 
ly cold perfume with 10 drops each 
of oil of peppermint, oil of winter- 
green, and 5 drops of essence of am- 
bergris. Form into lozenges. These 
are used by smokers to perfume the 
breath. 

TOOTHACHE 

This may arise from several causes. 
Either the crown or root of the tooth 
may partly or wholly decay, the gum 
may recede so as to expose the soft 
dentine of the neck of the tooth, or 
the membrane covering the outer sur- 
face of the root of the tooth may be 
inflamed. All of the conditions that 
give rise to toothache are a serious 
menace to the general health, and 
should have the early attention of a 
competent dentist. Toothache is a 
warning that these conditions are 
present, and if attended to in time 
will certainly be a means of avoid- 
ing graver consequences. When the 
enamel of the tooth becomes broken, 
the bone decays in all directions until 
the pulp or nerve of the tooth becomes 
affected. Often a very small orifice in 



512 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the enamel, which is hardly notice- 
able, may lead to the decay of the 
whole interior of the tooth. And this 
condition may not be suspected until 
the crown happens to be chipped or 
broken. Hence, if the teeth are sen- 
sitive to cold or to the touch, or if 
they ache or " grumble " more or less 
from time to time, a dentist should 
be immediately consulted, so that the 
cavity may be filled before the nerve 
is affected. Otherwise the roots of 
the nerve may decay and produce 
ulcers, which will work their way 
through the bones of the jaw and the 
gums and discharge into the mouth. 
During these conditions the process 
of chewing is much affected, tartar 
accimiulates on the teeth, and general 
bad conditions prevail. 

Hence the use of toothache reme- 
dies is only advisable when for any 
reason it is not possible to consult a 
dentist. And the fact that they al- 
lay the pain, and thtis seem to effect 
a temporary cure, should not be al- 
lowed to cause the sufferer to lose 
sight of the danger signal that means 
trouble ahead vmless the cause of the 
pain is permanently removed. 

Treatment of Toothache. — This de- 
pends upon the- cause. And the only 
permanent cure is the removal of the 
cause, if possible, by the aid of a good 
dentist. 

Toothache caused by cavities which 
expose the dentine, but do not affect 
the nerve, is usually due to local irri- 
tations caused by acids, sweets, or 
salt taken into the mouth, by the 
presence of acid in the saliva due to 
indigestion, by the use of the tooth- 
brush, or by exposure to cold. In 
such cases a dentist should be con- 
sulted and the tooth filled as soon as 
possible. But in the mean time va- 
rious pain-kUlers mentioned below 
may be used to relieve or deaden the 
pain. Filling the cavities will almost 
always give immediate relief. If the 
neck of the tooth is exposed, mouth 
washes should be used containing 
such substances as bicarbonate of 
soda, carbonate of magnesia, and 
other alkalies, to neutralize the acid 



that may be present in the saliva, 
and suitable washes should be used 
to strengthen the gums. 

Among substances recommended to 
give temporary relief in toothache 
are counterirritants,' such as oil of 
cloves or cinnamon, alum, carbolic 
acid, ammonia; and various anaes- 
thetics, as opium, belladonna, ether, 
sulphate of morphia, chloral hydrate, 
laudanum, and the like. Many of 
these are powerful and dangerous 
drugs and should be used only with 
the most intelligent caution. They 
should never be used when it is pos- 
sible to consult a dentist, and they 
must not be expected to effect a per- 
manent cure. 

First cleanse the cavity, if possible, 
with a bit of cotton on the point of 
a toothpick dipped in peroxide of 
hydrogen or a solution of baking 
soda in warm water, or a solution of 
boric acid, listerine, or other antisep- 
tic. Rinse out the cavity with the 
same solution by means of a medicine 
dropper or small syringe, or by using 
it as a mouth wash. In using the fol- 
lowing powerful substances be care- 
ful that they do not fall into the 
mouth so as to be swallowed. 

TOOIHACHi: BEMSDIES 

Use the oil of cloves or equal parts 
of the oil of cloves and chloroform. 
Saturate a bit of cotton with this 
and crowd into the cavity. Renew 
frequently. But if the tooth is ul- 
cerated, saturate the cotton and place 
it on the gum. Meantime soak a 
^all piece of absorbent cotton in 
chloroform and insert it loosely in 
the ear on the affected side. Renew 
from time to time. Care, of course, 
must be taken, not to be overcome by 
the fumes of the chloroform. 

Or mix 1 dram of finely powdered 
alum with 3 drams of nitrous spirit 
of ether. Apply to the cavity on a 
piece of cotton. 

Or mixl equal parts of salt and alum 
with just enough water to dissolve 
them, saturate a bit of cotton and in- 
sert in the cavity. Renew frequently. 



THE TEETH 



513 



Or place J ounce of carbolic acid 
in a glass bottle and melt by placing 
the bottle in hot water. Add J ounce 
of collodium, saturate a bit of cotton 
and insert in the cavity, but do not 
let this come in contact with the in- 
side of the mouth, as the catholic acid 
will burn wherever it touches. 

Or mi:^ 5 grains of opium, 5 grains 
of extract of henbane, 3 drams of oil 
of cloves, 10 grains of extract of bel- 
ladonna with powdered pellitory into 
a stiff paste and fill the cavity with 
this. 

Or saturate a bit of cotton with a 
solution of ammonia and insert. Or 
insert cotton saturated with camphor 
dissolved in turpentine. 

Or, with great care, touch the in- 
side of the cavity with the point of 
a pencil of lunar caustic. Protect all 
but the point of the caustic by means 
of a cloth or otherwise, and carefully 
hold the lips and face away from the 
parts while the application is being 
made. 

Or mix 4i ounces of alcohol, 2 
drams of camphor, 2 scruples of 
opium, 3 drams of oil of cloves, i 
ounce of bruised pellitory. Let stand 
a week or 10 days and strain. Rub 
on the outside of the face or in very 
small quantities on the gum, or insert 
in the cavity on cotton. 

Or mix 1 ounce each of ginger, 
cloves, and camphor. Grind to pow- 
der in a mortar, add 4 ounces of 
tincture of opium, 16 ounces of pure 
soft water, let stand a week or 10 
days and strain. Apply as above. 

Or dissolve in alcohol 5 grains of 
opium, 5 grains of camphor, 1 dram 
of oil of cloves, 1 dram of oil of 
cajeput. Apply to the cavity on cot- 
ton. 

Or place in a glass bottle 1 ounce 
of creosote and add i dram of sul- 
phate of morphia. Let stand until 
the solution is clear, then add 3 
ounces of chloroform. Apply to the 
cavity on cotton. 

Or rub to powder in a mortar i 
dram of chlorate hydrate, 1 grain of 
sulphate of morphia, 8 drams of cam- 
phor imtil they liquefy. Add 1 dram 



of oil of peppermint. Apply on cot- 
ton. 

Or mix 10 drops each of cam- 
phorated oil, carbolic acid," creosote, 
chloroform, oil of peppermint, oil of 
cloves. Apply to the cavity on cot- 
ton. 

In addition to the above, tooth- 
ache will usually be relieved by ap- 
plying to the face any poultice hav- 
ing the property of retaining heat, or 
resting the face on a hot-water bot- 
tle, soapstone, or common red brick 
covered with flannel. 

Dental Work. — Teeth should never 
be pulled unless it is absolutely nec- 
essary. And this will not often be 
the case if the warning given by sen- 
sitiveness of the tooth, or by tooth- 
ache, is heeded in season. The loss of 
the tooth usually renders the corre- 
sponding tooth on the opposite jaw 
useless for chewing. It also impairs 
proper pronunciation in speech. 

Always consult the best dentists 
available and do not put too much 
confidence in the men who advertise 
cheap or painless dentistry. When 
the pulp or nerve of the tooth is af- 
fected it should be deadened and 
completely removed, and the root 
canal should be thoroughly cleaned 
out. This cannot be done properly 
without some pain. And if the op- 
eration is painless there is ground 
for suspicion that it may not have 
been thorough. Once the cavity and 
roots have been thoroughly cleaned 
and filled by a competent dentist, all 
trouble with that tooth will be at an 
end. The judgment of a dentist 
should be taken as to what sort of 
filling should be employed in any 
tooth. But all cavities should be 
filled promptly and properly, other- 
wise stomach troubles are sure to 
follow. 

Artificial Teeth. — The progress of 
modern dentistry is nowhere more 
apparent than in the cheapness and 
perfection with which lost teeth can 
be replaced. Sometimes when the 
crown of the tooth is broken, it can 
be covered vrfth an artificial crown, 
and the loss of one or more teeth can 



514 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



sometimes be repaired by a bridge 
consisting of several crowns anchored 
to two or three adjacent roots. All 
lost teeth, whether in the front or 
back part of the mouth, should be, on 
the ground of health, replaced at the 
earliest possible moment. Artificial 
teeth should be kept perfectly clean. 
And plates should be removed at 
night and placed in an antiseptic so- 
lution, such as listerine or boric acid. 

Temporary Pilling for Teeth. — 
First cleanse the cavity by using a 
bit of cotton at the end of a tooth- 
pick. Dip this in an antiseptic solu- 
tion, as boric acid in water. Rinse 
out the cavity with the same, or a 
solution of peroxide of hydrogen, by 
means of a small glass or rubber 
syringe. Drop a small piece of 
gutta-percha into boUing water. Cut 
off with a penknife sufficient to fill 
the cavity and press it in the tooth 
with an orange stick or a piece of 
soft pine wood whittled to conveni- 
ent size and shape. After filling the 
cavity, remove carefully any gutta- 
percha that may adhere to the out- 
side of the tooth; and fill the mouth 
with cold water several times until 
the gutta-percha hardens. 

Or melt a small piece of gutta- 
percha at the end of a wire by mois- 
tening in boiling water or holding 
over d hot stove or other heated sur- 
face, and insert while warm. 

Dentists' Amalgam for Filling 
Teeth. — Gold, 1 part, mercury, 8 
parts, melted together with gentle 
heat and poured while melted into 
cold water. 

Or dissolve 2J parts of powdered 
mastic in 1 part of ether and mix to 
a stiff paste with powdered alum. 

Or melt together equal quantities 
of tin foU and mercury and when 
cold enough to bear the hands, knead 
a small quantity with the fingers and 
insert quickly before it hardens. 

Or melt together 1 part of cad- 
mium, 2 parts of tin. Allow the re- 
sulting alloy to harden, reduce to 
filings and add sufficient mercury 



with gentle heat to make a fluid 
amalgam. Squeeze out any excess of 
mercury through leather. Knead up 
the soUd remnant with the fingers 
and fill the cavity with this. 

Or makp a fluid amalgam of either 
gold or silver with mercury. Squeeze 
out the excess of mercury through 
leather and use the residue. 

Or for a quick, cheap, and handy 
amalgam, mix when required for use 
30 grains of fine zinc filings, 40 
grains of mercury. 

Or amalgamate with quicksilver 6 
parts of zinc, 21 parts of tin, 73 
parts of silver. 

Or melt together 1 part of pow- 
dered gold, 3 parts of silver; add 2 
parts of tin, allow to cool and harden ; 
reduce to fine filings and mix with 
an equal quantity of pure mercury 
when required for use. 

Or make into a paste with equal 
parts of quickly drying copal and 
mastic varnish 1 part of gypsum, 1 
part of powdered porcelain, 1 part of 
iron filings. 

Or amalgamate 2 parts of steel 
filings with 4 parts of quicksilver. 

Dentists' Nerve Paste. — The sub- 
stance used by dentists to Mil the 
nerve is arsenic in very minute quan- 
tities. 

Mix 1 part of arsenic with 2 parts 
of rose pink and apply on a bit of 
cotton moistened with creosote. Re- 
move after 3 or 4 hours and wash 
out the cavity with water containing 
an antiseptic, as boric acid. 

Mix 15 grains of arsenious acid and 
10 grains of sulphate of morphia with 
creosote to a paste, and apply on 
cotton; but this should never be done 
without having the nerve immedi- 
ately removed by a competent den- 
tist. Otherwise the nerve pulp In the 
roots of the tooth wiQ decay and 
will form an ulcer, which wUl work 
through the gum and sometimes 
through the face and continue to dis- 
charge until properly treated. Hence 
work of this sort should be intrusted 
only to a competent dentist. 



CHAPTER XX 

CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 

KINDS OF CANDIES— BOILING SIRUP FOR CANDY— THE SEVEN 
DEGREES— CREAM OR FONDANT — CREAM CANDIES — FRUIT 
AND NUT CREAMS— BONBONS— TAFFY AND MOLASSES CANDY 
FOR CANDY PULLS— SIRUP CANDIES — PASTILS OR CANDY 
DROPS — CANDIED FRUITS, FRUIT AND NUT CANDIES— CARA- 
MELS— KISSES AND MARSHMAIXOWS— NOUGATS— POPCORN 
CANDY— LOZENGES— COUGH CANDIES— TO COLOR AND FLA- 
VOR CANDY— ICES AND ICING— HONEY AND BEESWAX 



Candy Making should be taught 
and acquired as one of the most use- 
ful of womanly accomplishments. 
Like every other art that caUs for 
skill and intelligence, it' has an edu- 
cational value. And the universal 
fondness for sweets renders the 
candy maker a popular favorite. 
Thus the mother who can make good 
candy and is fond of practicing her 
skill, or teaches and encourages her 
daughters to do so, will not only 
make her home attractive to her own 
family, but wUl also acquire an en- 
viable reputation as an entertainer. 
Then, too, there is a good market in 
all parts of the country for first class 
homemade candies. Even in cities 
where the large confectioners' shops 
seem capable of supplying every de- 
mand, good homemade candies are 
given preference at the highest 
prices; while in small towns and 
rural districts, where cheap candies 
are the rule, the homemade article, 
if of good quality, will always find a 
ready sale. Children may offer a few 
pounds of homemade candies for 
sale at a small booth or table placed, 
in summer weather, on the lawn, and 
in many localities can thus earn a 
good many dollars from passers-by. 
Or after a reputation for the quality 
of the product has been acquired. 



orders may be obtained from local 
merchants or from neighbors. When 
any considerable amount of candy is 
made, the best materials will not cost 
over 15 cents a pound, and prices 
ranging from SO cents to $1 a 
pound are the rule for a high grade 
domestic article. A candy booth, 
always providing the contents are of 
the best quality, is usually one of the 
most profitable features at church 
fairs, lawn parties, and other enter- 
tainments for the purpose of raising 
money. 

Utensils for Candy Making. — ^The 
entire outfit of a professional candy 
maker can be afforded by anyone. 
First in order is a suitable surface 
on which to pour and work fondant 
and other candies. A flat or shal- 
low box or tray, 3 or 4 inches deep 
and of any convenient size, lined with 
tin or zinc, is used by many confec- 
tioners. But a marble slab, such as 
the top of an old-fashioned center 
table or bureau, is ideal for this pur- 
pose. It should be used wrong side 
up. A couple of candy scrapers or 
toy hoes like garden hoes are needed 
to work cream candy. Or have a car- 
penter make a spatula or flat scoop 
of hard wood, 12 or IS inches long, 
shaped like a snow shovel, but having 
a very thin beveled edge, as shown in 



515 



516 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the illustration. This is used to lift 
and scrape the fondant. A good 
granite or porcelain double boiler, a 
broad, tliin-bladed palette knife, a 
quantity of waxed paper, a two-tined 




' The Entire Ovifit of a Candy Maker.' 



fork with which to dip creams and 
bonbons; these complete the neces- 
sary outfit. A good pair of scales, a 
suitable measuring cup or graduated 
glass should be at hand in the kitch- 
en. And a small stock of fancy 
molds or starch prints will be found 
convenient. 

Ingredients for Candy. — These are 
of three sorts: sugar, fruit, nuts and 
the like, perfume or flavoring, and 
coloring matter. As to sugar, that 
known as Confectioners' XXX is the 
best and is used by confectioners for 
the finest grades of imcooked can- 
dies. Confectippers' " A " sugar is 
not as good, but is sometimes used 
for cooked candies. Pure granulated 
or loaf sugar properly clarified, forms 
a satisfactory substitute. But if 
adulterated sugar is used it will not 
be possible to get satisfactory re- 
sults. The ordinary powdered sugar 
'sold by grocers is not usually prop- 
erly refined, and in many cases is 
adulterated. If the scum which rises 
is dirty or if the melted sirup has a 
brownish or purplish tinge, it is not 
fit for the finest grades of candy. 
And even the best granulated sugar 
or ordinary powdered sugar is not 
suitable for uncooked candies. Hence, 
if you expect to make candy for sale 
or are ambitious to secure the best re- 
sults, ask your grocer to make a spe- 
cial order for Confectioners' XXX 
sugar, which c£|.n be procured of any 



large dealer in candy or wholesale 
grocery house at a slightly higher 
price than ordinary powdered sugar, 
and use this for uncooked fondant, 
icing, and the better grades of creams 
and bonbons. 

White sugar must be used for all 
light-colored candies. But coffee or 
dark-brown sugar may be used for 
caramel, dark-colored nut candies, 
taffy or molasses candy that is to be 
pulled; or for any candy that is to 
be colored in dark shades. 

Measurements for Candy. — One 
pint Confectioners' " A " sugar. Con- 
fectioners' XXX or "powdered" su- 
gar equals J of a pound. 

One teacup or tumbler equals J 
a pound. 

Onfe pini; of brown sugar equals 14 
or IS' ounces ; 1 teacup of brown su- 
gar equals about 9 or 10 ounces. 

Two tablespoonfuls equal 1 oimce, 
or 33 tablespoonfuls 1 pound. 

These measures are approximate, 
but are sufBciently accurate for prac- 
tical purposes. 

EIKSS OF CANDIES 

Among the many sorts of candy 
turned out by professional confec- 
tioners, certain standard makes or 
kinds may be noted which admit of a 
general description. One important 
distinction is between the cooked can- 
dies, the basis of which is the clari- 
fied sirup boiled to the required de- 
gree, and the imcooked candies. 

The secret of uncooked candy con- 
sists in using Confectioners' XXX 
or other very finely powdered sugar. 
Ordinary powdered sugar is not siut- 
able for this purpose, as it will be 
found if tested between the thumb 
and finger to have a rough grain, 
whereas the Confectioners' XXX su- 
gar is as fine as starch. Uncooked 
candies may be made equal to the 
finest French cream. They should be 
allowed to stand twenty-four hours 
or more before being eaten. 

Among the standard sorts of 
cooked candies are fondant or cream, 
which may be clarified sirup boiled 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



517 



to the soft-ball degree and creamed 
by dipping or working with a 
wooden spoon or paddle, or by beat 
ing up Confectioners' XXX sugar 
with white of egg and water or milk. 
These fondants are the foundation of 
chocolate and other cream candies, 
and many others. 

Bonbon is a general name for 
fancy candies, the heart or center of 
which may be made of nuts, fruits, 
or any sort of sweetmeats, and af- 
terwards dipped in melted fondant 
cither of plain white sugar sirup, or 
sirup containing chocolate, coffee, or 
other flavoring matter, and tinted 
with various coloring matters accord- 
ing to taste. 

Creams and cream candies are 
made of simple fondant with the 
addition of nuts, fruits, or sweet- 
meats stirred in, or having the fon- 
dant poured over them, or other- 
wise. 

Molasses Candy consists of mo- 
lasses in place of sugar sirup boiled 
down with or without a mixture of 
sugar or glucose. 

Butter-scotch and Taffy may con- 
sist of either molasses or sugar sirup 
with the addition of butter and fla- 
voring matter. 

Pastils or Drop Candy usually con- 
sist of simple clarified sirup with a 
small quantity of water and flavor- 
ing extract. 

Kisses and Marshmallows are sim- 
ple sirup beaten up with the white of 
egg or gum arable. 

rruit and Nut candies are mixtures 
of various sweetmeats with simple 
fondant. 

Macaroons and Katafias consist of 
almonds beaten up with simple sirup 
and white of egg. 

Pralines or candied almonds are 
blanched almonds coated by immer- 
sion in boiling sirup. 

Candied Truit and other sweet- 
meats are made by pouring over 
them the clarified sirup boiled to the 
feather degree. This is afterwards 
withdrawn, leaving the sweetmeats 
coated with sugar in a form which 
crystallizes after a while. 



Caramels are made of hard-baked 
candy with the addition of various 
sweetmeats and flavoring extracts. 

Degrees for Kinds of Candy. — 
The following are general rules as to 
the state or degree of sugar boiling 
best adapted to the different sorts of 
candy, but these may be varied more 
or less by particular recipes ' which 
should, of course, be carefully ob- 
served: 

Ordinary Fondant or French Cream 
is boiled to the soft ball. 

Sugar, Cream, or Molasses Candy 
for a "candy pull" to the snap or 
crack. 

Taffy and Butter-scotch the same. 

Pastils or Drop Candy. — Boil as 
little as possible; the candy should 
merely be dissolved. 

Kisses, Marshmallows, and Maca- 
roons are not boUed (except French 
kisses, which are boiled to the 
thread), but are beaten up with 
white of egg and browned in a bak- 
ing oven. 

Sirup for Candied Sweetmeats 
boiled to the feather or flake. 

Pralines boiled to the pearl. 

Caramels boiled to the caramel or 
hard-baked degree. 

BOILING SISTTF FOS CANBT 

To Clarify Sugar. — To make good 
candy it is first advisable to clarify 
the sugar by boiling it to a thin sirup 
with half its own bulk or more of 
water and the addition of the white 
of egg, gum arable, or gelatin. This 
precaution will cause the impurities 
to rise in a scum, which may be re- 
moved with a skimmer. The result- 
ing clarified sirup is the basis of all 
high-grade candies. 

Similarly to clarify brown or yel- 
low sugar, add white of egg or a so- 
lution of gelatin, isinglass, or gum 
arable with water, and boil until the 
' impurities rise to the surface. Dis- 
solve i cupfuls of sugar in 1 of warm 
water and add the white of 1 egg 
beaten up with 1 cupful of cold 
water. Boil with gentle heat, remov- 
ing the scum as fast as it appears. 



518 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or dissolve 4 cupfuls of sugar in 1 
cupful of warm water; simmer with 
gentle heat, and add J ounce of gum 
arabic' dissolved in a little boiling 
water. Remove the scum with a 
skimmer as fast as it appears. 

For white sugars, less of the white 
of egg is required, but the same 
quantity of water should be used. 

To clarify loaf sugar, 1 white of 
egg to every 6 pounds of sugar is all 
that wUl be required. But add, when 
boiling loaf sugar, 1 tablespoonful of 
lemon juice or vinegar to prevent it 
from graining. As the sirup boils, 
add a little cold water to prevent it 
boiling over, and skim as the froth 
subsides. Do this three or four times, 
and strain the whole through cheese 
cloth. Add flavoring matter. If de- 
sired, after the purified sugar has 
been removed from the fire. 

To Clarify Ilolasses. — To make a 
fine grade of molasses candy or to 
purify molasses so that it may be 
used in place of sugar for candies, 
cooking, and other purposes, take 
equal parts of molasses and water, 
and i part of coarse broken char- 
coal; as, 24 pounds of molasses, 34 
pounds of water, and 6 pounds of 
charcoal. Mix and boil for half an 
hour over a slow fire. Pour into a 
large flat pan or vat and let stand 
xmtU the charcoal settles to the bot- 
tom. Strain off the clear molasses 
through a piece of cheese cloth and 
simmer with gentle heat untU the 
water is all evaporated and the mo- 
lasses has returned to its proper con- 
sistency. Molasses will lose nothing 
in bulk by this process, as 24 pounds 
of molasses will give 24 pounds of. 
clarified sirup, from which the finer 
grades of molasses candy can be 
made. 

To Clarify Uaple Sugar. — To 
weigh, melt, and clarify maple sugar, 
break up the cakes and add enough 
water according to the condition of" 
the sugar — whether hard or soft 
grain — ^to dissolve. Place over a slow 
fire and stir while melting. If the 
sugar was of a. soft grain, add 15 
pounds of granulated sugar. Or, if 



a hard grain, add IS pounds of best 
light coffee sugar. Boil to a medium 
baU. Test by pouring a little in a 
porcelain-lined saucepan until the 
grain is cloudy. Leave a little of the 
grained sirup in the saucepan from 
the last stirring to make the next 
grain quicker. Pour in buttered 
molds, or set the kettle into a tub of 
ice water to cool and harden. But 
observe that maple sugar thus mixed 
with cane sugar must not be offered 
for sale without a statement of the 
fact that it has been thus treated. 

To Boil or to Candy Sugar. — ^The 
art of candy making is very ancient, 
and the process of boiling sugar for 
candy has been observed and studied 
for many generations. Thus it has 
been observed that the clarified sirup, 
as it gradually loses moisture by 
evaporation in the course of boiling 
down, assumes certain stages in which 
it is best adapted for use in making 
different kinds of candies. For con- 
venience in preparing recipes these 
stages have been named and care- 
fully defined, so that with a little at- 
tention they may be noted by anyone. 
When once observed they will always 
be recognized at a glance, and the 
process of candy making will become 
almost as easy for the amateur as it 
is for the professional confectioner. 

Seven different states or degrees 
are noted, three of which fall into 
two different stages. These are called 
respectively (1) the lisse or the 
thread, which may be large or small; 
(2) the perle or pearl, either large 
or small; (3) the souffle or the blow; 
(4) the plume or feather; (S) the 
houlet or ball, large or small; (6) the 
cassi or the crack or snap; and (7) 
the caramel or hard baked. 

To Test Sirup. — The method prac- 
ticed by professional confectioners 
to test the state or " degree " of boil- 
ing sirup is to dip the tip of the 
forefinger and thumb of the right 
hand into iced water, then into the 
boiling sirup, and quickly back into 
the iced water again. The operation 
is much like that of testing a hot flat- 
iron with a wet finger. If the test is 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



519 



made quickly enough, the ice water 
will prevent the hot sirup from burn- 
ing the lingers. There is, of course, 
a knack in doing this, but with a lit- 
tle practice it can be readily ac- 
quired. The thumb and forefinger 
are brought together in the iced wa- 
ter, to prevent the sirup from run- 
ning off, and quickly withdrawn, 
holding a pinch of sirup between 
the forefinger and the thumb. By 
spreading them, the state or degree 
of the boiling sirup can be ascer- 
tained. 

Another method of testing, which 
may perhaps be preferred by the be- 
ginner in candy making, is to take 
out a little of the sirup with a spoon, 
lower it in a cup of cold water, and 
let a drop fall from the edge on the 
tip of the forefinger. 

Or, to dip the forefinger and 
thumb in iced water, take out a little 
of the hot sirup on a small stick or 
skewer, and test a drop between the 
thumb and iinger. 

Candies that are to be pulled may 
be tested by pouring a spoonful of 
sirup into cold water and observing 
if it is brittle enough to break with- 
out bending, like a pipestem, other- 
wise the boiling must be continued. 

THE SEVEN DEGSEES 

To make the experiment of noting 
the seven degrees in sugar boiling, 
crush 1 pound of fine loaf sugar, 
add 3 gills of water and put it on 
or boil in a clean saucepan over 
a sharp fire. Have at hand a bowl 
full of iced water, a suitable skim- 
mer and if desired a small stick or 
skewer. Remove the scum as fast as 
it rises to the surface, and after 
about 2 minutes by the watch make 
the first test as above suggested 
either by dipping the thumb and 
forefinger, first into the iced water, 
then into the boiling sugar, and 
back into the iced water again, or by 
means of a spoon or skewer. Take 
great care that the sirup does not boil 
over, and stir frequently so that it 
may not burn. 



The Xisse or Thread. — If on sepa- 
rating the thumb and forefinger with 
a pinch of sirup between them, a 
thin, short thread is formed which 
quickly snaps', the sugar is in the 
state known as the "small thread." 
In a few seconds more, when the 
thread can be drawn out to double 
its former length without snapping, 
its state is known as the "large 
thread." 

The Perle or Pearl. — ^After another 
minute or two longer, the sugar in 
boiling wiU form small round bub- 
bles or globules that look like large 
pearls. This state is known as the 
" small pearl." Soon the pearls will 
cover the entire surface of the sirup, 
and this state is known as the " large 
pearl." In the pearl state a pinch of 
sirup may be drawn out to the full 
extension of the finger and thumb 
without breaking. This is the proper 
degree for most kinds of candy 
making. 

The Souffle or Blow. — After an- 
other minute or two, dip the skim- 
mer in the sirup and jar it sharply 
by striking it on the edge of the pan. 
Blow through the holes, and if the 
sirup forms small bubbles or glob- 
ules on the reverse side, the sirup is 
in the state known as the " blow." 

The Plume or Feather. — Again dip 
in the skimmer, and shake it so as to 
flirt the sirup from the edges. If it 
threads and flies from the skimmer in 
flakes or hangs from the edge in 
strings it is in the state known as 
the "feather." 

The Boulet or Ball. — ^Make the 
next test with the thumb and finger, 
or by dropping a little sirup into 
cold water. If it can be rolled be- 
tween the finger and thumb into a 
soft, creamy, but not sticky ball, the 
state is known as the " soft ball." 
After a few seconds' more boUing, on 
testing in the same manner, it will be 
found to be in the state known as the 
"hard ball." 

The Casse or the Crack or Snap. 
— The next test is made with the 
thumb and finger, and if the pinch 
of sirup is brittle enough to crack or 



520 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



snap, leaving the parts attached to 
the thumb and finger dry and hard, 
it is in the state known as the 
" crack." In this state it does not 
stick to the teeth, and a spoonful 
dropped into cold water wiU be hard 
and very brittle. This is the state in 
which candy is ready to be pulled. 

The Caramel or Hard Baked. — 
When the sirup begins to brown, it 
is in the state known as "caramel" 
or "hard baked." It will then give 
off a pungent odor and brown rap- 
idly, when it must be at once re- 
moved from the fire, as otherwise it 
will burn to a black cinder. 

In this state, if a little sirup is 
dropped into cold water it will 
crackle and snap like glass. Care 
must always be taken not to allow 
the fire to burn up against the' sides 
of the saucepan, or the sugar may be 
burned and discolored. 

The above are the definitions of 
the different degrees in sugar boiling 
noted by French confectioners, who 
are considered the best in the world. 

By others the distinctions between 
the little and great thread, the small 
and great pearl, and the soft and 
hard ball are less noted; the blow 
and the feather, or the feather and 
the ball are often regarded as iden- 
tical. 

Sirup for Candied Sweetmeats. — 
Boil down clarified sirup to the feath- 
er degree, or 35 degrees by a, sirup 
tester. Quickly remove the pan from 
the fire and set it into a dish of cold 
water, iced water, if possible, coming 
up all around the sides so as to cool it 
as quickly as possible. Lay over the 
top of the sugar a piece of waxed 
paper cut to fit the inside of the 
saucepan. When entirely cold, stir 
the sirup over the sweetmeats to be 
candied. A special utensil can be 
obtained for this purpose, having 
corrugated tubes at the bottom from 
which the sirup may be drained off. 

Or the sweetmeats may be placed 
in a smaU basket strainer and put 
in the sirup, which may be placed 
in an earthenware or other round- 
bottomed vessel slightly larger in 



size than the strainer. The whole 
should be covered tightly and placed 
in a refrigerator, cellar, or the cold- 
est place attainable. A temperature 
below the freezing point is desirable. 

After standing over night, or about 
eighteen hours in this temperature, 
the strainer containing sweetmeats 
should be lifted from the sirup 
(which should be drained off), and 
without being removed from the 
strainer should be placed in a clean 
vessel and allowed to dry and com- 
plete the crystallization. 

Sirup for Holds. — ^To prepare a 
sirup for lead molds or starch prints, 
boil together to the soft ball 2 cup- 
fuls of sugar, 1 large tablespoonful 
of glucose, i cupful of water. 

Or test by tangling a yard or more 
of fine wire in a mass of loops, dip 
this in the sirup, lift and blow 
through them, when, if the sirup is 
done, bubbles will be formed and the 
sirup will be feathery and fly off in 
flakes. Now pour on a jnoistened 
molding board or on a marble slab 
to cool. When lukewarm, cream with 
a wooden paddle and set away in an 
earthenware bowl covered with sev- 
eral folds of wet cloth. Let stand 
twenty-four hours or more before 
using. To use this fondant set the 
required quantity in an earthenware 
bowl in a double boiler over a dying 
fire and stir constantly irntU melted. 
But do not let the fire burn up or 
the sirup approach the boiling point, 
as if it simmers or boUs it will grain. 
At this stage add any desired flavor- 
ing or coloring matter. 

Sirup for Crystals. — Boil 1^ 
pounds of sugar with i pint of water 
to the fine thread, for small crystals, 
or to the great thread for larger 
crystals. Remove from the fire and 
let stand untU nearly cold. Sprinkle 
over the top a little water to dissolve 
the film which gathers on it. Lay the 
sweetmeats to be crystallized in shal- 
low pie tins inclined at a slight an- 
gle, and pour over them sirup from 
a ladle until they are covered. Lay 
on the top of the sweetmeats two or 
three folds of damp cloth, to pre- 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



5£1 



vent a crust from forming, and let 
stand until the sirup crystallizes, 
which may require several hours. 
Drain off the sirup, which may be 
done by laying on top of the cloth 
another pan of similar size to keep 
the candies in place, and tilting the 
vessel to let the sirup escape at the 
edge. Lay away the candies to dry, 
leaving the cloth over them, and 
sprinkling it with water until it is 
quite damp. The remaining sirup 
may be preserved and used again for 
other sweetmeats. 

When the candies are dry, hold a 
cloth tightly to the edges of the pan, 
turn it upside down on a smooth sur- , 
face, and the candies will drop out 
on the cloth. They may then be sepa- 
rated and wrapped in paper or 
boxed. They must be kept in a cool, 
dry place. 

CBEAU OB FOirSAirT 

To prepare fondant or cream, which 
is the foundation of the justly cele- 
brated French creams and bonbons, 
the sirup must be removed from the 
fire at the soft-baU degree, or just 
before it is ready to produce taffy or 
hard candy. 

The sure way to determine the 
right state is by means of the sugar 
thermometer. The "soft ball" oc- 
curs at 238 degrees. The beginner 
who has mastered the art of making 
good cream or fondant is in posses- 
sion of the principal secret of profes- 
sional candy making, and may turn 
his or her skill to good account by 
making saleable sweetmeats. There 
are, of course, many recipes for mak- 
ing fondant both with and without 
glucose. The latter makes a some- 
what cheaper candy, and if it is read- 
ily obtainable, of good quality, its use 
in homemade candy is not objection- 
able. 

To Boil Fondant. — To prepare 
fondant in general, boil the sirup 
rapidly over a quick fire to the soft- 
baU degree. Do not stir the sirup 
while boiling, as this would cause it 
to grain. When a drop of the sirup 



cooled in cold water can be rolled 
into a soft creamy, but not sticky, 
ball it is done and should be re- 
moved immediately from the fire. 
If on rubbing a little of the sirup 
with a wooden spoon against the 
sides of the pan it seems soft and 
creamy it should be allowed to stand 
until lukewarm and then creamed, 
but if by chance it has been boiled 
too hard, add a little boiling water, 
return to the fire, and make a new 
■-test. 

Cautions on Uaking Fondant. — 
Never attempt to make fondant when 
the air is humid, as in rain or foggy 
weather, or when there is a high 
wind. Select a clear day with a 
cloudless sky and stiU air or a gentle 
breeze. Sirup tends to grain in 
windy weather, and fondant cannot 
be worked properly in wet weather, 
since the slightest moisture affects it. 

Do not add more moisture to the 
fondant in the form of flavoring mat- 
ter or otherwise than is absolutely 
necessary. 

After mixing the sugar and water 
for fondant, stir until the sugar is 
thoroughly dissolved, but do not stir 
after it is placed on the stove to boil, 
otherwise the fondant will grain and 
it will be necessary to melt it over 
again. Do not be discouraged if you 
do not at first succeed. 

If the sirup grains or is too soft, 
add boiling water, stir until it is dis- 
solved, place it back on the stove and 
boil as before. This may be done a 
dozen times if necessary. Thus ex- 
periment with your first batch of 
fondant until you acquire the neces- 
sary skill or knack. After that the 
art of candy making will come more 
easily. 

Oil slightly with pure olive oil the 
marble slab, or other surface on 
which you work. But use as little 
oil as possible. 

Do not let the fondant become too 
cold or hard before commencing to 
work it. Pour it out on the slab in a 
rather thin layer so that it will settle 
in uniform thickness. As soon as it 
hardens enough on the edges to be 



522 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



lifted and rolled, commence to work 
from the edges in toward the center 
of the mass. Do not give the fondant 
time to harden, but work very brisk- 
ly, turning the edges in with the 
scraper or spatula, or working the 
hoes back and forth until the whole 
gathers into a solid mass which can- 
not be readily divided. Then knead 
with the hands like bread. Work 
hard until the fondant acquires the 
proper consistency. 

Store fondant in tightly sealed 
glass fruit jars. Thus it may be 
kept indefinitely. Or to keep it for 
a few days only, place in an earthen- 
ware bowl and cover with two or 
three layers of cloths wrung out so 
as to be moist but not wet. 

Let fondant stand twenty-four 
hours or more before making centers 
for creams or bonbons and let the 
centers themselves stand for twenty- 
four hours or more before dipping. 
Otherwise they wiU be melted when 
dipping into the hot chocolate or 
other fondant. Again, let the candies 
stand a day or two to set before they 
are packed for use or sale. 

Do not use more coloring or flavor- 
ing matter than is necessary — ^just 
enough so that the tint or flavor can 
be readily distinguished, is a good 
rule. Do not add flavoring matter to 
fondant until it has been removed 
from the fire and is nearly cool. 
Sprinkle the flavoring over the sur- 
face in the process of creaming and 
it will be thoroughly worked into the 
mass by kneading. 

To Koll Fondant. — Cut off as 
many pounds of fondant, at least 
24 hours old, as you need to make 
candy. Measure J teaspoonful of 
flavoring extract or less to each 
pound of candy and add to the 
flavoring extract 1 drop of the ap- 
propriate coloring matter. Roll the 
fondant out thin on the slab, sprinkle 
the coloring matter over it and thor- 
oughly incorporate it by kneading, 
the same as when working over 
bread. Have ready prepared sheets 
of waxed paper. And have at h^nd 
nuts, fruit, or decorations for the 



candies you are abOut to make. Cut 
the fondant Into small pieces and roll 
into the desired shape with the fin- 
gers or palms. If fruit or nuts are 
to be used, add them at once while 
the cream is moist. Or if the centers 
are to be dipped, set them in order 
on waxed paper and let stand twenty- 
four hours more to harden. 

To Dip Fondant. — If the chocolate 
for dipping fondants becomes too 
thick, add to it a little cocoanut oil. 
This is the natural oil of chocolate^ 
and is, hence, the most appropriate 
substance with which to thin it. Do 
not attempt to thin it with hot water, 
as it will immediately cause the 
chocolate to grain. 

Or use fresh, unsalted butter or 
olive oil. To dip the centers, use a 
slender two-tined fork, turn the coni- 
cal point of the chocolate to the 
right, downward, dip under in a half 
circle, remove it point first and hold 
it upright over the chocolate for a 
moment or two to drip. Then set it 
down gently on the waxed paper. 
Add nuts, fruit, or decorations, if 
any, while the chocolate is still damp. 
Dip bonbons in the same manner. 

To Cream Fondant. — When the 
sirup is done set it away from the 
fire and let it stand until about luke- 
warm. Now commence to stir with a 
wooden paddle. Commence to stir 
round and round, always in the same 
direction; keep the sirup away from 
the sides of the kettle so that it will 
not grain or form in lumps. Pres- 
ently the edges will commence to 
show white and dry. The mass must 
now be laid on a marble slab or a 
kneading board, which may be dusted 
with fine flour, cornstarch, or Con- 
fectioners' XXX sugar, and kneaded 
with the hands in the same manner 
as bread dough imtU it is of a uni- 
form soft and creamy consistency. 

Place the mass of fondant if not 
required for use in an earthenware 
bowl and cover it with several folds 
of a cloth wrung out so as to be moist 
but not wet. It may thus be kept for 
a number of days, and will only re- 
quire to be warmed at the fire or by; 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



523 



setting the bowl in a vessel of boiling 
water or on a hot soapstone, or on 
two or three common bricks pre- 
viously heated in the oven, to be 
ready for immediate use. Any rem- 
nant of the fondant which becomes 
hard and dry, or a, batch of fondant 
which has been cooked too much, 
may be softened with hot water and 
reboiled to the proper degree. 

Confectioners' Fondant. — The fol- 
lowing recipe is that of a profes- 
sional confectioner, and the full 
quantities are given for the benefit 
of dealers in candy, grocers, or per- 
sons desiring to make candy in large 
quantities for sale at a fair, church 
bazaar, or otherwise. The quantity of 
candy here described will require a 
large kneading board or vat with low 
sides; but any smooth surface, as a. 
clean kitchen table, will answer. As 
the mass wiU be too large to be 
worked with the hands it is better to 
take a small garden hoe with a short 
handle, which should, of course, be 
scoured clean for the purpose. 

Boil down 20 pounds of fine granu- 
lated sugar with 2J quarts of water 
to the stiff ball. Remove from the 
fire and sprinkle on top 6 pounds of 
glucose, but do not stir it in. Set 
back on the fire and let it boil until 
the scvun boUs in. 

Note that the glucose must not be 
added until the sugar is boUed to the 
hard ball, and must not be stirred, 
but allowed to boil in of itself. Dust 
the vat or molding board with Con- 
fectioners' XXX sugar, pour out the 
mass on this as soon as the scum has 
boiled in, and let it cool until you 
can lay your hand on it. But it is 
better to begin a little sooner than 
to let it get too cold. Take two short 
garden hoes or cream scrapers, work 
it flat and sprinkle over it rather less 
than J pint of glycerin. Cream thor- 
oughly with the hoes or scrapers, and 
let stand over night before using. 

When this fondant is first made it 
will be rather rough and coarse in 
texture, but standing twelve hours or 
more will give it a uniform fine tex- 
ture and it improves with age, never 



graining or turning stale. If this 
recipe is carefully followed, a fine 
quality of cream for chocolate drops, 
cream candies, and other fondants 
can be made at a very satisfactory 
profit. 

Pondant without Glucose. — Boll 
rapidly over a quick fire to the soft- 
ball degree 6 cupfuls of fine granu- 
lated sugar, 3 cupfuls of water, and 
J teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Or 3 pounds of granulated sugar, 
1 pint of water, and J teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar. The addition of 
cream of tartar prevents the sirup 
from graining. Remove from the fire 
as soon as done, let the mass cool 
until lukewarm, and proceed as be- 
fore. 

Chocolate Fondant. — Instead of 
pure melted chocolate, a fondant con- 
taining 2 tablespoonfuls of grated 
chocolate to each pound of cream 
may be used. Place in a bowl, set in 
a vessel of hot water, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of chocolate and when melted 
add a cupful of clarifie(^ sirup and 1 
pound of melted fondant. Stir and 
mix well. In this chocolate fondant 
dip the hearts or centers of creams 
or bonbons by transfixing . them with 
a fork or hatpin and dropping them 
on waxed or buttered paper or sheets 
of tin to harden. Fruits, as cherries, 
figs, and the like, are very delicious 
coated in this way, or mixed nuts 
dipped and roUed with French cream 
and thus coated are also excellent. 

Bonbon Fondant. — Prepare any 
ordinary fondant, but cream it with 
a wooden paddle, and do not knead it 
as for ordinary fondant. Let it stand 
twenty-four hours or more in an 
earthenware bowl covered with sev- 
eral thicknesses of wet cloth. To dip 
bonbons heat the fondant by setting 
it on a soapstone or in a pan of hot 
water over the stove and stirring 
constantly, but do not allow it to boil. 
A double boiler may be used for this 
purpose. Dip the centers by trans- 
fixing them with a fork or hatpin, 
and set them to cool on sheets of 
waxed paper. This recipe is suitable 
for all sorts of nuts, fruits, and other 



524 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



sweetmeat centers. The fondant may 
be tinted or colored as desired. 

Uncooked Fondant. — Beat up the 
white of egg and mix with the same 
amount of water by bulk in an earth- 
enware bowl. Whip in Confection- 
ers' XXX sugar to a stiff paste, which 
will stand when molded with the 
fingers to any desired shape. Flavor 
and tint as desired. After molding 
let the pieces stand several hours to 
harden, but make up no more fon- 
dant than is required for immediate 
use, as it soon hardens. This fon- 
dant may be used as centers for 
chocolate creams, or for nut or fruit 
sweetmeats in place of any of the 
cooked fondants as desired. 

CBEAU CAirDIES 

Chocolate Creams. — Mold French 
cream or any of the fondants into 
cone-shaped balls with the hands or 
fingers. Let them stand over night on 
waxed paper or a marble slab, or 
until they are thoroughly hardened. 
If they are allowed to stand twenty- 
four hours or more all the better. 

Coating for Chocolate Creams. — 
Melt a cake of chocolate in a double 
boiler, but do not let it boil. When 
melted add a lump of paraffin as big 
as a small walnut, half as much but- 
ter, and a few drops of vanilla. 

Or melt in a double boiler a piece 
of paraffin the size of a hickory nut, 
a teaspoonful of lard, and add J 
pound of chocolate. Stir until melt- 
ed. If a, thicker coat of chocolate is 
desired, add to the melted chocolate 
to thicken it a little glycerin or a few 
drops of linseed oil. 

Do not attempt to thin dipping 
chocolate with water or else it will 
immediately grain and harden. 

To Coat Chocolate Creams. — Place 
the pan of melted chocolate in a 
larger pan of boiling water on » very 
hot soapstone. This keeps the choco- 
late melted. Place the creams on 
waxed paper at the left, and a sheet 
of waxed paper to receive the coated 
chocolates at the right. Take up the 
creams by thrusting them through 



with a fork or a hatpin, dip them 
quickly in the chocolate, and slip 
them off on the waxed paper. 

Or, holding the cream on a fork or 




"Dip Them Quickly in the Chocolate. 



hatpin, pour the melted chocolate 
over them from a teaspoon. Let 
the creams stand twenty-four hours 
or more to harden. 

Chocolate-cream Candy. — ^Melt to- 
gether in a double boiler ^ oimce of 
chocolate scraped fine, 3 ounces of 
powdered loaf sugar, 1 pint of sweet 
cream. Bring these nearly to a boil 
but remove before they simmer and 
beat them up with an egg beater. 
Let cool, adding the whites of 4 or S 
eggs. Again beat up the whole with 
an egg beater, remove the froth with 
a sieve, and serve in glasses deco- 
rated with the froth on top. 

Or dissolve in 6 glasses of fresh 
milk 1 ounce of grated chocolate 
and 3 ounces of white sugar. Beat 
up the yolks of 3 eggs and stir into 
these the milk and chocolate, stirring 
slowly one way. Add a few drops of 
vaniUa boiled with milk. Mix well, 
place in cups in a pan of water, and 
boil for an hour. Serve cold. 

Trench Cream. — Place in a clean 
saucepan 3 cupfuls of white sugar, i 
cupful of hot water. Boil 8 min- 
utes without stirring. When done 
it should fall in threads from the 
stirrer, and when rubbed against the 
side of the pan should be of a creamy 
consistency. A few drops in cold 
water should roU into a soft ball be- 
tween the fingers. 

It is better to remove from the fire 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



525 



too soon than to cook too much, as if 
necessary it can be returned to the 
fire and the cooking continued. 

When done pour into a bowl and 
-beat with an egg beater. When cool 
add any desired flavoring matter. 
This is a fondant which may be 
molded or cut into any desired shape, 
tinted and colored as desired, or 
made into bonbons by molding into 
various shapes and decorating with 
almonds or other nuts pressed into 
the top or side. Place the pan con- 
taining the cream in hot water or on 
a warm soapstone while molding it to 
prevent its getting too cold. 

Or place in a clean saucepan 2 
cupfuls of granulated sugar, J cup- 
ful of milk. Bring to a boil over 
a slow fire and boU for S minutes. 
Remove and set the saucepan in a 
pan of cold water. Beat up with an 
egg beater until it creams. Mold into 
balls with the hands, and arrange in 
layers with figs, dates, or nuts be- 
tween, and cut into squares. 

Or mold into any desired shape 
and place the nuts on top. This 
is suitable fondant for chocolate 
creams. 

French Cream, with Glucose. — 
Pour over 2 tablespoonfuls of glu- 
cose I cupful of boiling water. Stir 
in Confectioners' XXX sugar to 
make a stiff paste. After standing 
half an hour knead thoroughly with 
the hands. Color and flavor to taste. 

French Tanllla Cream. — Take the 
whites of any desired number of 
eggs and an equal quantity of cold 
water or milk. Stir in Confectioners' 
XXX sugar to make a stiff paste, 
tint and flavor to taste. Form in 
fancy shapes and place on waxed pa- 
per to dry. This is suitable fondant 
for all bonbons and chocolate drops. 
About IJ pounds of confectioners' 
sugar will be required for the white 
of 1 egg. 

Cream Candy. — Boil together to 
the hard snap 1 pound of white su- 
gar, 1 cupful of water, i teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, 3 teaspoonfuls 
of best white vinegar, 3 teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla, butter the size of an egg. 



When it hardens on being dropped 
in water pour into a buttered pan 
and when nearly cold pull. 

Or boil to the hard snap, or about 
half an hour over a slow fire, 3 
pounds of loaf sugar, J pint of water, 
add 1 teaspoonful of fine pickled gum 
arable dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls 
of boiling water and 1 tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar. Boil until it hardens 
on being dropped in water, remove 
and flavor as desired. Rub the hands 
with unsalted butter and pull until 
the candy is white. Twist or break 
it, stretch into ribbons, cut to any 
desired size, and lay on buttered 
plates or waxed paper to harden. 

Maple Creams. — Beat up together 
with an egg beater or otherwise the 
white of 1 egg and 1 cup of pure 
maple sirup. Stir in Confectioners' 
XXX sugar to make a stiff paste, 
mold to any desired shape, and coat 
with chocolate or fondant. 

Or boil to the soft-ball state 1 
pound of maple sugar with J tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar and J 
cup of water. Let stand in the 
saucepan until nearly cold, and stir 
until it clouds or becomes creamy. 
Pour into a shallow tin greased with 
oU of sweet almonds or unsalted but- 
ter to cool. When cold cut to any 
desired shape. 

Or mix grated maple sugar with 
French cream, and stir in dry con- 
fectioners' sugar to make a stiff 
paste. 

Peppermint Creams. — Flavor 
French cream freely with essence of 
peppermint and shape into round, 
flat creams. 

Wintergreen Creams. — Flavor 
French cream freely with winter- 
green essence and color pink. Shape 
into round, flat forms or mold as de- 
" sired. 

Neapolitan Creams. — Divide 
French cream into a number of parts. 
Tint and flavor these differently, and 
arrange on waxed paper or a marble 
slab in the same fashion as layer 
cake or marble cake. Roll out the 
mass with a rolling pin or by pres- 
sure with the hand to any desired 



526 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



thickness, and the parts will be found 
to keep their relative positions. Cut 
to any desired shape. 

F£UIT AKD HUT CBEAMS 

Fruit Creams. — Chop up any de- 
sired fruit as citron, currants, figs, 
or seedless raisins very fine and mix 
with French cream while the sugar is 
being stirred in. Roll the mass on a 
suitable slab with a rolling pin, and 
cut or mold to any desired shape. 

Fig Creams. — Quarter small figs 
with a sharp knife so as to leave the 
quarters connected at the stem. Col- 
or and flavor French cream or fon- 
dant as desired, roll flat, cut into 
strips of the thickness of the little 
finger, cut off pieces somewhat short- 
er than the fig and place one in each 
fig, closing the quarters about it. 
Dip the whole in French cream or 
fondant. 

Or cut dry figs in strips and wrap 
the inner seed side around a piece of 
fondant. Cut to any desired shape. 
Chop any desired nut or mixture of 
nuts very fine, and stir with the sugar 
into French cream. Mold to fancy 
shapes and tint or flavor as desired. 

Date Creams. — Remove the pits 
from the dates, split open the end, 
insert a ball of cream with a clove 
stuck in the end. 

Almond Creams. — Chop the alm- 
onds fine and stir with the sugar 
into French cream, or mold the 
French cream to fancy shapes and 
press the almond meat into the side. 

English Walnut Creams. — Mold 
French cream in any desired size and 
place half an English walnut meat 
on the top or on either side. 

Walnut Creams. — Boil to the hard 
snap stage 1 .cupful of grated choco- 
late, 1 cupful of brown sugar, 1 cup- 
ful of molasses, J cupful of sweet 
milk. When it hardens on being 
dropped in water stir in butter the 
size of an egg, 1 cupful of chopped 
walnuts, or add, in place of milk, 
pure cream. 

Or boil together to the hard snap 
4 cupfuls of granulated sugar, 3 



tablespoonfuls of glucose, 1 cupful of 
boiling water. Now add a cupful of 
cream, J cupful of butter, and stir 
until done; before removing from the 
fire add 2 cupfuls of finely chopped 
hickory nuts, stir thoroughly, and 
pour out to cool. Other nut cara- 
mels can be prepared from the same 
recipe. 

BOITBOirS 

To prepare bonbons it is necessary 
to have suitable lead molds oUed with 
the oil of sweet almonds, or starch 
prints of various shapes and sizes. 
These are filled by means of a suit- 
able funnel with sirup in the state 
known as the blow. 

To test the sugar, dip the skimmer, 
strike it against the sides of the pan, 
and blow through the holes. If small 
bubbles and gleams of light may be 
seen, it is in the right condition. Add 
a few drops of any desired flavoring 
matter, and if coloring matter is de- 
sired add the color just as the sugar 
is taken from the fire. If the bon- 
bons are to be white, let the sugar 
cool a little, and stir it in the pan 
until it grains and shines on the sur- 
face. 

AUow the molds to cool, and let 
stand two or three days. As soon as 
the mslds are cold remove the bon- 
bons on waxed paper, and let stand 
two or three days to dry. 

Chocolate and Vanilla Cream Bon- 
bons. — Strain through a piece , of 
muslin 1 ounce pf fine picked gum 
arabic, soaked in J gill of hot" wa- 
ter. Add a few drops essence of va- 
nilla, and stir in as much icing sugar 
as it will take, working it into a stiff 
but soft and yielding paste. About 
1 pound of sugar will be required. 
Dissolve 2 ounces of French choco- 
late with a tablespoonful of water in 
an oven. Beat up the mixture, and 
work smooth, and add to it the white 
of 1 egg beaten as for icing. 

Mold suitable drops of vanilla 
cream fondant; place these on a 
sheet of waxed paper or plain paper 
brushed with fine sugar, and let 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



527 



stand until hard. Dip these creams 
in the chocolate coating in the usual 
way. 

Almond Bonbons. — Mold almond 
paste into any desired shape, and dip 
them into melted fondant. 

Cocoanut Harshmallow Bonhons. 
— Cut fresh marshmallows into quar- 
ters or any desired shape, dip in 
melted fondant, roll in grated cocoa- 
nut, and set on waxed paper to hard- 
en. The fondant may be of various 
tints and flavors for variety. Use if 
possible fresh coarsely grated cocoa- 
nut, as if too fine it will not adhere 
well to the fondant. Or desiccated 
cocoanut may be used, if necessary, 
but is not equally good. 

Cocoanut Uaple Bonbons.— Grate 
fine 1 fresh cocoanut and stir it into 
a pound of soft maple cream or fon- 
dant. Mix the mass with the hands 
imtil thoroughly incorporated. Roll 
and cut out with a smaU candy cut- 
ter, roll into round balls with the 
palms, let stand to harden slightly, 
and dip in cream fondant or choco- 
late as preferred. 

Cocoanut Strawberry Bonbons. — 
To 1 freshly grated cocoanut add 
about four times as much, by bulk, 
stiff fondant, mix thoroughly with 
the hands, and mold into conical 
shapes the size of strawberries. 
When dry dip into melted fondant 
flavored with strawberry and tinted 
pink. Afterwards roll in red sugar 
sand. 

Maple Bonbons. — Use maple sugar 
instead of granulated to make a 
cream or fondant in the usual man- 
ner. 

Or use part maple sugar and part 
granulated sugar. Form this fon- 
dant, when of a soft and creamy con- 
sistency, into any desired shape, let 
stand to harden, dip in melted cream 
or fondant, and place on waxed pa- 
per to harden. 

Jelly Cream Bonbons. — Obtain a 
starch tray having molds with two 
sections, one smaller than the other. 
Cook a suitable quantity of apple 
jelly to a stiff consistency, and with 
this by means of a funnel fill one half 



of the mold. Let cool and fill the re- 
mainder of the mold with the melted 
fondant of the consistency of ordi- 
nary cream. A variety of different 
tints and flavors and molds of differ- 
ent shapes and sizes may be used to 
produce different effects. 

f ineapple Bonbons. — Dip in melt- 
ed fondant pineapples cut into fancy 
shapes and place on waxed paper to 
harden. 

Walnut Bonbons. — ^Mix equal parts 
of chopped black walnuts with a soft 
fondant, mold to any desired shape, 
dip in chocolate, maple or cream fon- 
dant and arrange on waxed paper to 
harden. 

TAFFT AND MOLASSES CANST FOB 
CANDY PULLS 

Taffy is a simple candy, which may 
be made of either granulated, light- 
er dark-brown sugar or molasses. 
Or both sugar and molasses, with 
the addition of butter and vinegar, 
lemon juice or other flavoring sub- 
stance, as desired. 

The ingredients may be boiled to- 
gether, or the butter may be added 
when the sirup is nearly done. Lemon 
juice or other flavoring matter should 
not be added until the boiling is 
nearly finished, as otherwise the fla- 
vor wiU be partly lost. Taffy is a 
good candy for children to make," as 
it is simple and easily handled. It 
may also be worked into various de- 
signs, twisted, braided, formed into 
horseshoes, baskets, and the like. 
-Two or more strands of different col- 
ors may be braided together. Bas- 
kets in different shapes may be 
formed by winding strands around 
the bottom or outside of cups or 
other dishes, which should be but- 
tered on the outside, adding a suit- 
able handle and setting the whole 
away to cool. When cold it may be 
easily removed. 

Candy canes may be rolled and 
twisted on a sheet of waxed paper; 
or strips of party-colored taffy may 
be twisted or braided and cut into 
sticks with scissors. The work must 



528 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEKIES 



be done quickly as soon as the candy- 
is cool enough to bear the hands, as 
after it sets it cannot be worked to 
advantage. When taffy is poured 
from the kettle use only the quantity 
that will run freely. Keep the scrap- 
ings by themselves, as if they are 
added to the candy they may cause 
it to harden and grain. 

Kolasses Taffy. — Boil in a buttered 
kettle for 3 hours over a slow fire, 
or until the sirup ceases to boil, 1 
quart of Porto Rico molasses and J 
pound of light-brown sugar. Stir 
frequently to prevent burning or 
boiling over. When nearly done stir 
in the juice of a large lemon. When 
it hardens in water pour into but- 
tered pans. 

Or boU over a slow fire to the ball 
1 quart of Porto Rico molasses and 
1 gill of cold water. Now stir in 1 
tablespoonful of butter, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of brown sugar. Boil until it 
hardens in water and pour in a but- 
tered pan to cool. 

Or boU together 1 cupful of mo- 
lasses, 1 cupful of sugar, butter the 
size of an egg, until it will harden in 
cold water. Cool in a buttered pan. 

Everton Taffy. — To make this cele- 
brated taffy extract the juice of a 
large lemon and grate J the rind. Mix 
IJ pounds of coffee sugar, SJ ounces 
of butter, IJ cupfuls of water, and 
the grated lemon rind. Boil together 
over a quick fire, stirring constantly 
until it becomes hard and brittle in 
cold water. Remove from the fire, 
stir in the lemon juice and pour in 
buttered tins to cool. 

Buttercups. — Make any desired 
quantity of taffy and pour out about 
i inch deep to cool on a smooth but- 
tered surface. Warm a similar quan- 
tity of stiff fondant, and work it 
near the fire until it is creamy and 
soft. Pull the taffy as soon as it 
wiU bear the hands until it is white, 
stretch it out in broad, flat strips, lay 
a roll of fondant in the center of 
each strip, roll the fondant in the 
taffy and cut the strips crosswise 
with a sharp scissors to any desired 
length. 



To Pull Candy.— The best way to 
puU candy is to grease the hands 
thoroughly with butter to prevent 
sticking, or they may be covered with 
flour. The work should commence as 
soon as the candy is cool enough to 
bear the hands. Work with the tips 
of the fingers until it grows cool. 




Pull Smartly.' 



Continue to puU imtU it is of a light 
golden color, or white, according to 
the recipe. PuU smartly, either by 
the help of another person or over a 
hook. Finally, draw out in sticks on 
waxed paper, or other smooth sur- 
face, which may be dusted with flour 
and cut with shears into sticks. 

Pulled Taffy for a Taffy Pull. — 
Either sugar or molasses taffy may 
be pulled. For sugar taffy, boU to- 
gether to the soft ball 3 cupfuls of 
granulated sugar, J cupful of vine- 
gar, i cupful of water; now add 1 
tablespoonfvil of butter stirred in 
quickly, and boil until it hardens and 
becomes brittle in cold water. Add 
any flavoring extract desired just 
before removing from the fire. Pour 
on a buttered platter to cool, turn in 
the edges as fast as it cools, and 
when cold enough to handle pull un- 
til white and brittle. 

Or for molasses taffy boU to the 
soft ball 1 quart of New Orleans mo- 
lasseS, 1 tablespoonful of granulated 
sugar. Now stir in 2 tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, J pound of butter, and 
boil untU it becomes hard and brittle 
in cold water. Just before removing 
from the fire stir in l teaspoonful 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



529| 



of soda dissolved in Iiot water and 
puU. 

Or boil together to the hard snap 
3 cupfuls of brown sugar, 1 cupful 
of molasses, i cupful of water, 1 
tablespoonful of vinegar. Just be- 
fore removing from the fire stir in J 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot 
water. Test in cold water. Add 
flavoring matter and pull until the 
color becomes a rich gold. 

To Make Molasses Candy. — The 
simplest way to make old-fashioned 
molasses candy for a candy pull is to 
boil the best Porto Rico molasses 
over a slow fire until it is done, 
which will require 2 hours or more. 
Butter a large saucepan which will 
hold about four times the quantity 
of molasses to be used. Stir fre- 
quently, especially when nearly done, 
to keep it from burning or boiling 
over. To test it, pour a spoonful into 
cold water; if it is hard, brittle, and 
snaps like a pipestem without bend- 
ing, it is done, otherwise the boiling 
must continue. It is, however, quite 
customary to mix with molasses 
about J as much brown sugar to 
make it boil more quickly, and some 
persons add a little butter or glyc- 
erin to make it pull easier. Others 
stir in J teaspoonful of baking soda 
dissolved in an equal amount of 
water or a little vinegar when the 
candy is nearly done to make it more 
brittle. The flavoring matter, if any, 
should be added just before the 
candy is taken from the fire and may 
be quickly stirred in or merely 
dropped on the top of the mass. 
Nuts of all kinds may be stirred into 
the candy just before removing it 
from the stove, or they may be placed 
in the buttered pan and the candy 
poured over them. The flavoring 
matter will be worked in when the 
candy is pulled. When done it should 
be poured out on a large buttered 
platter or pan so as to be about i 
inch thick to cool. As the edges cool 
they should be turned in and as soon 
as it will bear the hands the pulling 
should commence. 

Or boil together in a buttered 



saucepan over a slow fire for Z 
hours, stirring frequently, 1 quart 
of molasses and IJ pounds of light- 
brown sugar. Now stir in the juice 
of a large lemon and 12 drops oil 
of lemon, and continue the heat un- 
til the sirup ceases to boil. Test 
by dropping a little in water, when, 
if done, it should be crisp and 
brittle. Pour in a buttered pan to 
cool. 

Or 2 quarts of Porto Rico mo- 
lasses, 1 pound of brown sugar, the 
juice of 2 large lemons or a tea- 
spoonful of strong essence of lemon. 

Or 2 cupfuls of molasses, 1 cupful 
of sugar, butter the size of an egg, 1 
tablespoonful of glycerin. Test by 
letting a few drops fall in cold water. 
If they keep their shape and are brit- 
tle it is done, but do not boil too 
much. Stir in 1 teaspoonful cream 
of tartar or soda just before remov- 
ing from the fire. 

Butter-scotch. — To make butter- 
scotch the ingredients may all be 
boiled together, or the butter and 
flavoriilg matter may be added to the 
sirup after it has boiled about twenty 
minutes, or when nearly ready to 
take from the fire. The sirup should 
boa to the hard-snap stage. To. test 
when it is done, either use the con- 
fectioners' test with the fingers, or 
test by dropping in cold water or on 
a cQld plate, when it will harden if 
boiled sufficiently. 

The following recipes are recom- 
mended : 

Boil to a hard snap J cupful of 
sugar, i cupful of molasses, J cupful 
of butter, i tablespoonful of vinegar, 
i teaspoonful of soda, stirring suf- 
ficiently to prevent burning. 

Flavor to taste, after removing 
from the fire. Butter a tin and pour 
out the sirup in a thin layer, which 
may be checked off in any desired 
shape when nearly cold with a sharp 
knife. Wrap in a piece of waxed 
paper. This is among the best reci- 
pes sfiid very easy to make. 

Or boil 1 pound of sugar in 1 pint 
of water to the soft ball, stir in 1 ta- 
blespoonful of butter, boil to the hard 



530 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



snap, remove from the fire and flavor 
to taste. 

Boil to the soft ball 2 pounds of 
light-brown sugar, 2 pints of water. 
When done it should be crisp and not 
hard when dropped in water. Now 
stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
boil to the hard snap, remove and 
flavor to taste. 

Boil to the soft ball 1 pound of 
"soft A" or "coffee" sugar, 1 tea- 
cupful of water, stir in 3 ounces of 
butter, boU to the hard snap and 
flavor with lemon juice and oil of 
lemon or otherwise, as desired. 

Or boil about 20 minutes or to 
the hard-snap stage 1 cupful of 
brown sugar, J cupful of water, 1 
teaspoonful of vinegar, and a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut. When 
it will harden In water pour out to 
cooL 

SIBTTF CANDIES 

Sirup candies may be made of any- 
desired flavor by boiling a sirup the 
same as for molasses candy. Clarify 
it by adding a little carefully picked 
gum arabic dissolved in hot water. 
The impurities which are taken up 
by the gum rise to the surface and 
can be removed vrith the skimmer. 
Continue to boil and skim until the 
sirup becomes perfectly clear and is 
hard and brittle when dropped into 
cold water. This will require half an 
hour or more steady boiling over a 
slow fire. Remove from the fire and 
as soon as the boUing subsides stir 
in vanilla, wintergreen, hoarhound, 
peppermint, rose, or any other fla- 
voring matter as desired. Pour out 
in buttered tins to cool, and when 
nearly cold mark into squares or 
any desired shape with a sharp 
knife. 

The following recipes are recom- 
mended: 

To 3 pounds of dark-brown sugar 
add IJ pints of water and i ounce 
of gum arabic dissolved in a little hot 
water. 

Or boil together 1 quart of sirup, 
1 pound of granulated sugar, 1 tea- 



spoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful 
of glycerin. 

Or 2 pounds of granulated sugar, 
S cupful of water, J cupful of vine- 
gar, butter the size of an egg, 1 ta- 
blespoonful of glycerin. Just be- 
fore taking from the fire stir in 1 
level teaspoonful of soda and pour 2 
teaspoonfuls of vaniUa, wintergreen, 
or any other flavoring matter over 
the top. Pull imtU white and glis- 
tening, and cut to any desired shape 
with sharp scissors. 

Haple Sirup Candy. — ^Boil down 
any desired quantity of maple sirup 
until it will harden and crack if 
dropped into cold water. When it is 
done, and just before removing from 
the fire, stir in a teaspoonful of but- 
ter for each cupful of sirup. This 
gives a hard candy. 

Or it may be made soft and waxy 
by less boiling. 

Or melt down 2 pounds of maple 
sugar in rather less than a pint of 
warm water. Boil imtil it hard- 
ens in cold water, and stir in 3 or 
4 tablespoonfuls of pure cider vine- 
gar. In both cases pour in but- 
tered pans to the deptix of about J 
inch to cool. 

Twist Candy. — Boil without skim- 
ming over a slow fire IJ pounds 
of granulated sugar and J pint of 
water, for half an hour. Remove 
from the fire and as soon as the 
hands will bear it pull it the same as 
molasses candy until it is white and 
glossy. Work it into fancy shapes 
and cut it to any desired size with a. 
sharp scissors. 

Sugar Candy. — Boil together with- 
out stirring 2 cupfuls of white coffee 
sugar, J cupful of good cider vine- 
gar, and § cupful of water, until it 
hardens in cold water. Pour over it 
any desired flavoring matter, cool on 
a smooth buttered surface and pull 
until it is white and glossy, but with- 
out twisting. Do not use butter on 
the hands, but have them clean and 
dry. 

To make nut candy, place the nuts 
or popcorn in the dish, and pour this 
fondant over them. 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



531 



Rook Candy. — ^A special kettle is 
required to make fine rock candy. 
This kettle should be broad and shal- 
low, the width being three or four 
times the depth. Place in the bottom 
of the kettle a circular rim of smooth 
tin about 2 inches high and closely- 
fitting to the inside of the kettle all 
around. Near the top of this make 
ten or twelve holes in a circle aU 
around at equal distances from each 
other, and string across threads from 
one side to the other on which the 
candy may crystallize. 

Prepare the sirup in a separate 
vessel, and when it is done pour it 
into the kettle so that it will reach an 
inch above the threads. Place the 
kettle on the stove at a moderate 
heat and leave it to crystallize, shak- 
ing it from time to time. It will re- 
quire about six days. When the crys- 
tals have formed pour off the remain- 
ing sirup and dash in a little cold 
water to clean the crystals from the 
sediment left in the bottom of the 
kettle. Remove the rim with the 
rock candy adhering to the threads, 
and set it in a clean vessel in a hot 
oven until it is dry and fit for use. 

To prepare the sirup clarify re- 
fined granulated sugar, filter and boil 
imtil it is ready to crystallize, which 
will be at 35 degrees on the sirup 
test. 

PASTILS OB CANDY BBOFS 

Special utensils are required for 
this purpose — ^namely, a round-bot- 
tom sugar boiler with pointed spout 
and a large piece of wrought iron or 
other metal with a hole in the center 
large enough to receive the bottom 
of the sugar boiler. The object is to 
prevent the heat from reaching the 
sides of the boiler and burning or 
discoloring the paste. The sugar for 
drop candy is not boiled but heated 
or baked, hence only a very small 
quantity of water is to be used. 

As a general rule, 2 ounces of wa- 
ter with the necessary liquid flavoring 
will take up about 16 oimces of sugar, 
or 3 .ounces of fruit juice or pulp 



wiU be required for IS oimces of su- 
gar without the addition of any other 
liquid. Small quantities only should 
be made at a time, to facilitate mak- 
ing the whole into drops before it 
hardens. 

Pound the best quality of lump 
sugar and sift first through coarse 
and afterwards through a fine sieve. 
Place a little over SJ oimces of su- 
gar in an earthen vessel and add J 
ounce of water, to which the neces- 
sary flavoring matter has been added. 
If the sirup is too liquid, the drops 
will not form properly, and if too 
thick the sirup wiU not pour easily. 
Mix the sugar to a stiff paste and 
place it over a moderate fire. As 
soon as the sides begin to bubble, 
showing that the sirup is melting on 
the bottom, stir it a minute or two 
in the middle, and the moment it wiU 
run remove it from the fire, stirring 
constantly, and drop pastils the size 
of large peas' in close rows upon a 
sheet of tin. To cut off the pastils 
the right size, hold the pan in the 
left hand and use a curved wire sim- 
ilar in shape to a hairpin. 

Let stand for two hours, then hold 
the sheet over the stove, moving it 
back and forth to finish drying. But 
do not have the heat strong enough 
to remelt the candy, and remove 
them as soon as they are hard and 
brilliant, as otherwise they will lose 
their fiavor. 

Or pastils may be dropped on a 
sheet of stiff paper and left two 
hours to set firmly. Then the paper 
may be turned over a sieve and the 
bottom moistened with a soft brush 
dipped in water. Loosen the drops 
if necessary with a knife, and let them 
fall in the sieve. Then move the 
sieve gently back and forth, over a 
slow fire, until they are dry. Pas- 
tils may be kept in closely stop- 
pered glass bottles or fruit jars to 
exclude air and moisture. Use the 
above directions for all of the follow- 
ing recipes: 

Peppermint Pastils. — Four drops 
of essence of peppermint, J ounce of 
water, 3J ounces of sugar. 



532 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Raspberry Pastils. — Half an ounce 
of raspberry juice, 3 J ounces of su- 
gar. Or a little less of the raspberry 
juice may be found sufScient in some 
cases. 

Currant Pastils. — Half an ounce 
of red currant juice, 4 ounces of 
sugar. 

Eose Pastils. — Four drops of es- 
sence of roses, 4 drops of prepared 
cochineal, J ounce of water, SJ ounces 
of sugar. 

Orange Pastils. — ^The juice of 2 or- 
anges strained, J ounce of orange 
sugar, 3J oimces of sugar. 

Ginger Pastils. — One teaspoonful 
Jamaica ginger, J ounce of lemon 
juice, 3 J ounces of sugar. 

Clove Pastils. — Four ounces of oil 
of cloves, J ounce of water, | ounce 
of sugar. 

Candy Drops. — In addition to the 
regular pastils, the following reci- 
pes for candy drops are recom- 
mended : 

Orange Drops. — Extract and strain 
the juice of 1 orange, grate up the 
rind, stir in a pinch of tartaric acid 
and thicken with confectioners' sugar 
to a stiff paste; roll into balls the 
size of marbles. These may be coated 
with chocolate if desired. 

Acid Drops. — To 8 ounces of 
pounded and sifted sugar add 2J 
ounces of water. Place in pastil su- 
gar boiler and proceed as for pastil 
drops. When ready to remove from 
the fire stir in ^ ounce of tartaric 
acid. As soon as this is stirred in 
form into drops as for pastils. 

Cinnamon Drops. — Four drops of 
oil of cinnamon, J ounce of water. 
Si ounces of sifted sugar. Add a few 
drops of prepared cochineal to color 
rose pink. 

Coffee Pastils. — Extract the 
strength of 1 ounce of coffee by boil- 
ing down in J pint of water for 6 
minutes, strain and use i ounce of 
this liquid to SJ ounces of sugar. 

Cocoanut Drops. — ^Beat up 1 pound 
of fresh grated cocoanut and J pound 
of white sugar with the whites of 6 
or more eggs to a stiff froth. There 
must be sufficient white of egg to 



moisten the whole. Drop on buttered 
plates in pieces the size of maca- 
roons. ' 

Currant and Raspberry Paste 
Drops. — Use 1 pound of currants or 
raspberries, or equal parts of each, 
boU and sift the pulp. Add an equal 
bulk of coarse sifted sugar. Boil 
down imtil it will harden in water. 
Drop on clean tin from a pastil 
sugar boiler in wafers the size of 
macaroons. Let sand for 2 hours 
to dry, and wrap up each piece in 
waxed paper, or pack between layers 
of paper and keep in a dry place. 

Ginger Drops. — ^Pound and sift Chi- 
nese ginger and stir in J ounce of 
water in quantity according to taste. 
To this add 3i ounces of sifted sugar 
and make into pastils. 

Lemon Cream Drops. — Extract and 
strain the juice of 1 lemon and grate 
the rind. Stir in a pinch of tartaric 
acid, thicken with confectioners' su- 
gar to a stiff paste, and form into 
balls as large as marbles. 

CAWDIED FETIITS, FEUIT AND NTTT 
CANDIES 

To Candy Fruits. — Use for this 
purpose fine white loaf sugar in any 
quantity desired. Dip each lump 
into clear soft water and drop the 
moistened lumps into a porcelain or 
other saucepan. Boil to the caramel 
state, removing the scum as fast as 
it appears. Remove the saucepan 
from the fire and place it in a vessel 
of hot water. As soon as the sirup 
ceases to boU, dip the fruit to be 
candled, one by one, into the hot 
sirup, and place it to dry and harden 
in a cool place. Almost any kind of 
ripe fruit may be candied in this 
manner, as ripe grapes, plums, cher- 
ries, sections of orange, lemon, or 
pineapple, etc. 

Or make a sirup of 3J pounds of 
granulated sugar and 1 pint of soft 
water or distilled water by boiling 
3 to S minutes. Remove from the 
fire, immerse the fruit, and let stand 
2 or 3 hours. Strain off the sirup, 
which may be used for other can- 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



533 



dies, and let the fruit stand in front 
of a baking oven with the door open 
until the moisture is dried out, when 
the sugar will crystallize. 

Candied Peel. — To candy orange 
or lemon peel, first soak peel in salt 
and water 4 or 5 days, changing 
the water frequently as it becomes 
bitter. When the bitterness has been 
removed, rinse them in clear warm 
water and boil in soft water until 
they are tender. Make a sirup at 
the rate of 3 pounds of loaf sugar 
to a pint of water, stir in the peels 
and boU to the caramel stage. Put 
them to drain in a sieve, powder 
them with Confectioners' XXX su- 
gar, and let them dry on the edge of 
a cool oven with the door open. 
Store in a cool place to harden. 

Candied Orange Marmalade. — Re- 
move the juice and pulp of sweet 
Florida or navel oranges, taking care 
to pick out the seeds and inside skin. 
For bitter marma.lade, boU the rinds 
at once until they become tender. 
Or, if the bitterness is not desired, 
use peels that have been soaked four 
or five days in advance in salt water, 
but the pulp must be freshly ex- 
tracted. 

Finally, in either case boil the peel 
untU it is tender. Chop or crush it 
fine, stir in the pulp and juice, add 
double the weight of moist loaf sugar 
and boil over a slow fire to the cara- 
mel stage, which will take about half 
an hour. Preserve in small jars cov- 
ered with waxed paper. 

frnit Sweetmieats. — Make a clari- 
fied sirup of i poiind of coffee or 
brown sugar by stirring in the white 
of an' egg and skimming it out as the 
sirup boils. Stir in 1 pound of sliced 
fruit, as peaches, pears, or sweet ap- 
ples, etc., and boil to the thickness 
ol jelly. Or, if desired, place the 
whole peaches in cold water with- 
out peeling them, and bring them 
to a boU. Remove and dry them on 
a towel, and immerse them in boil- 
ing sirup. 

Or dip small fruit, as cherries, 
raspberries, plums, etc., in white of 
egg, place them in a sieve, dust with 



XXX powdered sugar, and shake 
until well coated. 

Orange Straws. — Boil orange peel 
in soft water in a large saucepan un- 
til it is tender, using plenty of water, 
and changing it frequently as it 
grows bitter. Place in a sieve to 
drain, and when cold enough to han- 
dle cut into narrow strips with a 
sharp, thin knife blade. Boil in sirup 
to the caramel stage and dry in a 
warm place. 

Fig Candy. — Boil to the hard ball, 
over a slow fire 1 pound of granu- 
lated sugar in 1 pint of water. Stir 
in i teaspoonful of vinegar, a lump 
of butter the size of an English wal- 
nut, and pour over split figs pre- 
viously prepared in a buttered pan. 

Date Candy. — Remove the pits 
froin any desired quantity of dates, 
and lay them in rows side by side 
in the bottom of a buttered pan 
about i inch apart. Pour over these 
a sirup prepared as for fig candy. 
Let stand imtil cold. When nearly 
cold mark between the rows of dates 
with a sharp knife blade. When the 
candy is set cut along these lines and 
wrap the bars in waxed or buttered 
paper. 

Haisin Candy. — Prepare the sirup 
as for fig and date candy, cover the 
bottom of a buttered pan with a 
layer of seeded raisins, pour on this 
a thin layer of sirup, add more rai- 
sins, and so continue until the candy 
is of any desired thickness. Mark in 
squares when nearly cold. 

rig Bars. — Boil to the soft thread 
4 cupfuls of granulated sugar and 1 
cupful of water to which J tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar has been 
added. Now stir in a pound of 
finely chopped figs, boil to the hard 
thread, take off the fire and sift in a 
half cupful of powdered sugar. 
Work the whole with a wooden spoon 
or paddle to a thick, smooth mass, 
using additional sugar, if necessary. 
Pour out on a smooth surface, lay 
over it a sheet of waxed paper and 
press down smooth with the bottom 
of a tin pan or any smooth, hard sur- 
face. Melt with gentle heat 1 pound 



534 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



of fondant in an earthenware bowl, 
set on a hot soapstone or in a pan of 
boiling water. Flavor to taste. Re- 
move the waxed paper from the 
fig paste, pour over it a lajer of the 
fondant, let the whole harden, reverse 
if desired, and pour a layer of fon- 
dant on the other side, and when 
hard cut it into bars and wrap in 
waxed tissue paper. 

Ginger Candy. — Boil over a quick 
fire 1 pound of granulated sugar 
with i pint of spring water. When 
dissolved mix a spoonful of finely 
powdered Chinese ginger with 2 or 3 
oimces of the sirup and stir it into 
the whole. Boil to the blow and at 
this stage stir in the rind of a large 
lemon, grated, and continue to stir 
until a spoonful dropped on a cold 
plate remains stiff without falling. 
Remove at once and drop from a 
pan having a lip or spout, on but- 
tered tins in pieces the size of maca- 
roons. 

Fruit Kolls. — Mix seeded raisins, 
lemons, figs, dates, citron, or any de- 
sired sweetmeats, and chop them to- 
gether. Knead the whole with enough 
fondant to give consistency to the 
mass, which should be very rich and 
nearly all fruit. RoU this on a mold- 
ing board dusted with flour or con- 
fectioners' sugar into a roll J inch 
thick and 1 inch or more in width. 
RoU out plsiin white fondant J inch 
thick and 4 inches in width, and roll 
up the fruit roll in the plain fondant 
as a cover. Let stand over night to 
harden, cut into 4-inch lengths, cover 
with melted chocolate, and lay on 
waxed paper to cool. 

Jelly Rolls. — Make crab - apple, 
currant, or any other jelly as stiff as 
possible, and pour out on a buttered 
tin pan to the depth of J inch. 
Roll out on a molding board dusted 
with Confectioners' XXX sugar, corn- 
starch, or flour a layer of plain 
French cream or fondant J inch 
thick, turn over the pan so that the 
sheet of jelly will lie upon this, and 
roll up the two in the same fashion 
as jelly cake. Let stand to harden, 
cut into slices. 



Fruit Tarts. — ^Lay ripe small fruit, 
as raspberries, cherries, plimis, and 
the like, in glass fruit jars and cover 
each pound of fruit with 6 ounces of 
powdered loaf sugar. Seal the jar, 
set it in boiling water up to the 
neck, and boil for 3 hours. The jars 
must be kept sealed until required 
for use. 

Fruit lozenges. — ^Place any small 
fruits, as currants, raspberries, cher- 
ries, and plums, in glass or earthen- 
ware jars set in boiling water. Scald 
and strain the fruit through a sieve. 
Add to each pint of juice an equal 
weight of finely sifted sugar and the 
white of an egg. Whip the whole to 
a stiff froth, drop on buttered paper, 
and place in a slow oven. As soon as 
they will loosen from the paper turn 
them and let stand in the oven until 
quite dry. Cut to any desired shape, 
pack between waxed papers, and keep 
in a dry place. 

Macaroons. — These popular con- 
fections are usually made of sweet or 
bitter almonds with sugar and the 
white of eggs, but sometimes with 
other substances, as nuts, flavoring 
matter, and the like. To make maca- 
roons blanch and pulverize a pound 
of almonds, adding a little rose wa- 
ter to form a moist elastic mass. 
Beat to a stiff froth the whites of 7 
eggs, stir in the almonds and a. 
pound of Confectioners' XXX sugar. 
Drop the macaroons in the desired 
size on buttered paper from a spoon, 
and brown on tin plates in a slow 
baking oven. Set them aside in the 
pan in which they were baked until 
cold. 

Or pound 4 ounces of blanched 
sweet almonds with 4 tablespoonfuls 
of orange flower or rose water. Beat 
up the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff 
froth and stir aU together with 1 
pound of Confectioners' XXX sugar. 
Brown in a slow oven. 

Or to 1 poimd of sweet almonds, 
blanched and bruised with a little 
water, add IJ pounds of sugar, the 
whites of 6 eggs and 2 grated lemon 
peels. Brown in a slow oven. 

Or, for pistachio macaroons, beat 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



535 



up with the whites of 3 eggs 4 ounces 
of pounded bitter almonds, 13 ounces 
of Confectioners' XXX sugar, 6 
ounces of shelled pistachio kernels, 1 
tablespoonful of orange or vanilla 
, sugar. Brown in a, slow oven. 

Eatafias. — Scald 4 ounces of Jor- 
dan almonds in a colander with boil- 
ing water. Remove the skins, rinse 
with cold water, and dry on a nap- 
kin. Prepare also 2 ounces of bitter 
almonds in the same manner. Place 
the whole in a sieve and dry thor- 
oughly by moving backward and for- 
ward over the fire. Pound the alm- 
onds very fine with a little water 
and whip in the whites of 3 eggs to 
form a stiff froth. To this add J 
pound of Confectioners' XXX su- 
gar and work the whole to a firm 
paste. Drop these on buttered paper 
in a tin pan, moisten the surface 
slightly with water and brown lightly 
in a very slow oven. 

Cocoanut Candies. — To make the 
best quality of cocoanut candy the 
fresh grated cocoanuts should be 
used, but where these are not avail- 
able place the desiccated cocoanut in 
a sieve or colander and steam a few 
minutes over a saucepan of boiling 
water so as to soften the cocoanut 
sUghtly before it is stirred in. Pre- 
pare a fondant or French cream and 
stir into the melted fondant J by 
bulk of freshly grated or desiccated 
cocoanut, mixing thoroughly. Roll 
the mixture into round roUs IJ or 2 
inches in diameter, cut off into pieces 
of the same length, and roll into 
balls. Sprinkle these with freshly 
grated or desiccated cocoanut untU 
well covered, and let stand to harden 
and cool. 

Cocoanut Squares. — Bring to a 
boil a pound of sugar with i cup- 
ful of water and stir in a small fresh- 
ly grated cocoanut. Boil to the hard 
thread, remove from the fire, add a 
drop of blue to give a clearer white, 
and cream with a wooden spoon or 
paddle against the sides of the sauce- 
pan. Pour out in a tin pan dusted 
with powdered sugar, and when cold 
cut into blocks with a sharp knife. 



Or to i pound of white sugar 
add J cupful of fresh milk. Bring 
to a boil and stir in J a small cocoa- 
nut freshly grated. Boil to the soft 
ball and pour out in a tin pan dusted 
with confectioners' sugar. When 
cold cut into squares. 

Nut loaf Candy. — Boil to the soft 
ball 1 pint of light coffee sugar with 
i pint of sweet fresh milk or cream 
and a lump of butter the size of an 
English walnut. Stir in 1 teaeupful 
of assorted nut meats, and pour into 
a small cake tin or other mold. 

Nut Cups. — Lay a pound of fon- 
dant on a warm soapstone or in an 
earthenware bowl, set in a pan of 
boiling water. When it is sufficiently 
warm stir in a cupful of finely 
chopped hickory-nut meats, which 
can be assorted or of any single kind 
desired, and work the whole with a 
wooden paddle until the fondant be- 
comes soft and warm. Pour on a 
molding board with Confectioners' 
XXX sugar, and roll into a strip J 
inch or more in thickness and 4 
to 3 inches in width. Lay this aside 
in a warm place. Meantime boil to 
a, hard crack 3 pounds of granulated 
sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of glucose, 1 
pint of water, and pour into a. tin 
buttered dish. Pull this taffy over a 
hook and roll out in a wide, flat 
sheet, and in this roll up the fondant. 
Let cool and cut crosswise into small 
pieces or bars as desired. 

Chocolate Walnuts. — Dip half 
meats of English walnuts in melted 
sweet chocolate and lay aside on 
paraffin paper to dry. 

Cream Walnuts. — Boil to the me- 
dium thread 3 cupfuls of sugar, § 
cupful of hot water, 1 tablespoonful 
of glucose, i spoonful of cream of 
tartar. Remove from the fire, beat 
up until it thickens, stir in chopped 
walnut meats, and pour into a but- 
tered tin. 

Sugared Almonds. — ^These bonbons 
are of two sorts: burnt almonds, 
sometimes called pralines, and sug- 
ared almonds, sometimes called 
dragees. They consist of whole alm- 
onds coated with sugar, which is 



536 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



often colored in various delicate 
tints. 

To make burnt almonds, bring to a 
boU over a moderate fire J pound 
of finely granulated sugar in J 
pint of water in a round-bottomed 
vessel, stirring constantly with a 
wooden spoon until dissolved. Then 
throw in 1 poimd of fine Jordan alm- 
onds shelled and sifted, to remove 
dust and dirt. Stir in the almonds 
gently in the sirup until they are 
heard to crackle slightly. Take them 
off the fire and stir vigorously so that 
the sugar grains and becomes almost 
a powder, and each almond has a 
complete coat. Pick out the almonds, 
shake them gently in a coarse sieve 
to remove the loose sugar, and cover 
them with a folded flannel cloth to 
keep them warm. Replace the sugar, 
add i pound of Confectioners' XXX 
sugar and J pint of water with a. 
teaspoonful of any desired coloring 
matter. 

Boil to the soft ball, remove from 
the fire and stir in the almonds as 
before. Again sift out the loose sug- 
ar and repeat the process until the 
candies arfe of the desired size. 

Or blanch any desired quantity of 
almonds and fry them to a light- 
brown color in butter. Roll them 
in a napkin to remove the excess 
of butter, and pour over them a 
sirup of white sugar boiled to a 
thread, stirring imtil they are quite 
cold. This is a celebrated Indian 
sweetmeat. 

To Gloss Burnt Almonds. — Dis- 
solve 2 tablespoonfuls of gum arable 
in 4 tablespoonfuls of water in a 
double boiler. Drop the burnt alm- 
onds in this after they have become 
cold and hardened, stir them gently 
and turn them out in a sieve. After 
the gummed water has dripped away 
shake the sieve gently over a slow fire 
until they are dry. 

Or pour over a little clean white 
gum shellac sufScient alcohol to cover 
it, and let stand over night. Pour off 
the clear solution from the sediment, 
dilute with alcohol, and apply to the 
burnt almonds with a brush. 



CABAKELS 

To make caramels in general boil 
clarified sugar until it is very brittle 
or to the point where it begins to 
gain more or less color and give off 
an acrid smell. But care must be 
taken not to burn the sugar or dark- 
en it beyond a light-brown shade. 
Then pour the sirup on an oiled mar- 
ble slab or tin, let cool until nearly 
hard, mark in small squares or cut 
out with a mold and lay away on 
waxed paper to harden. 

If no suitable mold is at hand mark 
off the slab i inch deep or more with 
the back of a case knife and sprinkle 
slightly with powdered sugar to keep 
the marks open. 

Chocolate Caramels. — Boil in a 
double boiler 1 cupful of grated 
chocolate, 1 cupful of brown sugar, 
1 cupful of molasses, 4 cupful of 
sweet milk, until it hardens when 
dropped in cold water. Now stir in 
a piece of butter as large as an egg 
and 1 cupful of chopped nuts of any 
kind, or any desired mixture of nuts. 
Pour into a buttered tin pan and cut 
into squares or mold when nearly 
cold. 

Or boil 1 pound of sugar to the 
hard* snap and stir in 4 ounces of 
grated chocolate dissolved in a table- 
spoonful of hot water. Boil until the 
sirup caramels. 

Or boil over a hot fire, stirring 
constantly, 4 ounces of grated choco- 
late, IJ pounds of dark-brown sugar, 
6 ounces of butter, and J teacupful 
of milk. Remove from the fire as 
soon as it becomes hard on being 
dropped in water, and if wanted 
hard, pour immediately into buttered 
dishes. Or stir for a few minutes to 
give a sugary consistency. Flavor 
after removal from the fire with 
lemon, orange, or vanUla either in the 
form of essences or grated lemon or 
orange peel. 

Coffee Caramels. — Boil to the hard 
snap 1 pound of sugar, stir in black 
coffee made from 2 ounces of coffee 
with as littie water as possible. 
Strain through cheese cloth. Con- 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



537 



tinue to boil until the sirup cara- 
mels. 

Maple Caramels. — Boil together in 
a double boiler or buttered sauce- 
pan i cupful of boiling water, 3 
cupfuls of pure maple sirup, 2 cup- 
f uls of coffee sugar, 3 tablespoonf uls 
of glucose, vmtil the sirup threads or 
hardens in cold water. Then stir in 
a cupful of pure cream, J cupful of 
butter, and boil until it caramels. 
When it hardens on dropping in 
cold water pour out to cool. 

Lemon Caramels. — Stir into the 
boiled sirup at the hard-snap stage 
the yellow rind of a lemon grated and 
mixed with a lump of sugar dissolved 
in lemon juice and water. Stir well 
until the mixture hardens in water, 
then pour out to cool. 

Strawberry Caramels. — Boil to the 
hard-snap stage 2 cupfuls of granu- 
lated sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of glu- 
cose, J cupful of boUing water, stir- 
ring constantly. Now stir in a cupful 
of cream and butter the size of an 
egg. Stir well imtil it hardens in wa- 
ter, pour out to cool, and while hot 
sprinkle thickly with grated cocoa- 
nut. When cold cut to any desired 
size. Use for tWs purpose preferably 
freshly grated cocoanut, but desiccated 
cocoanut may be used if necessary. 

KISSES AND KABSHHALLOWS 

These are made of Confectioners' • 
XXX or powdered sugar, stiffened 
with the white of egg or gum arable 
and browned in a, baking oven. Bak- 
ing powder or cream of tartar is 
sometimes added to make them light- 
er. To make plain kisses, beat the 
whites of 4 eggs to a stiff broth and 
whip in i pound of powdered su- 
gar. The harder the mass is beaten 
the stiffer the candy will be. Lay on 
wet paper on a piece of hard wood 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

Cocoanut Kisses. — Beat up togeth- 
er the whites of 3 eggs and whip in 
3 cupfuls of powdered sugar, 2 cup- 
fuls of freshly grated cocoanut, and 
3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Brown slightly in a quick oven. 



Chocolate Kisses. — Beat up 3 
whites of eggs and whip in 2 ounces 
of grated chocolate, 1 pound of Con- 
fectioners' XXX sugar. Bake in a 
slow oven on wet or buttered paper 
spread on a piece of hard wood. 

French Kisses. — ^Dissolve 3 cupfuls 
of granulated sugar in water, using 
no more water than is necessary, and 
add a pinch of cream of tartar. 
Bring to a boil, stir in a freshly 
grated cocoanut of medium size and 
boil to the thread. Add a drop or 
two of blue color and work to a 
cream with a wooden spoon or pad- 
dle. Drop the kisses upon sheets of 
clean tin from a pan having a lip 
or spout, cutting them to the size of 
macaroons with a sharp knife or 
wire. 

Hut Kisses. — Beat up the white of 
3 eggs and whip in 30 teaspoonfuls 
of pulverized sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of brandy, and IJ cupfuls of finely 
chopped nuts. Flavor as desired. 
Beat all together to a stiff mass and 
drop on wet or buttered paper the 
size of large macaroons. Brown in a, 
moderate oven. 

Wlntergreen Kisses. — Beat up the 
whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth and 
whip in gradually J pound of Con- 
fectioners' XXX sugar, and ilavor 
with essence of wintergreen to taste. 
Beat the whole very light, drop on 
wet or buttered paper, and bake on 
a piece of hard wood in a moderate 
oven to a light-brown color. 

Psyche's Kisses. — Boil the sugar 
to the crack, stir in 2 ounces of ap- 
ple juice whUe boiling, remove from 
the fire and stir in gradually about 
J its bulk of fruit juice, coffee, 
diluted chocolate, or any kind of 
liqueur or flavoring matter desired, 
and set aside to cool. When cool beat 
up vnth a wooden paddle, stirring 
the mass vigorously from the sides 
and bottom until it becomes soft and 
elastic. This will be hard work at 
first, but gradually becomes easier. 
The longer it is worked the better 
the kisses will be. Let stand over 
night and warm with gentle heat 3 
or i ounces at a time in a sugar 



538 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



boiler with a spout, such as is 
tised for pastils. Stir carefully and 
avoid burning or overheating. When 
the mass will pour readily drop 
from the spout on wet or but- 
tered paper in pieces the size of 
macaroons. 

Marshmallows. — Cover an ounce 
of carefully picked giun arable with 
4 tablespoonfuls of water, and let 
stand for an hour. Heat the gum 
in a double boiler imtil it is dissolved. 
Strain through cheese cloth and whip 
in about 3J ounces of Confectioners' 
XXX sugar. Place on a moder- 
ate fire and beat for 1 of an hour, 
or until it comes to a stiff froth. 
Remove from the fire, beat 2 or 
3 minutes while cooling and stir 
in J teaspoonful of vanilla. Dust a 
tin pan with cornstarch, pour in 
the marshmallow, dust cornstarch 
over the top and set aside to cool. 
When cold cut into squares with a 
knife dipped in cornstarch, roll the 
squares in the starch and pack away 
in tin or other tight boxes. 

NOTJGATS 

ITougats. — Nougat is made by 
melting in a copper sugar boiler 
granulated sugar with the addition of 
lemon juice at the rate of a dessert- 
spoonful to each pound of sugar and 
twice the weight of the sugar in alm- 
onds or other nuts, as filberts, pis- 
tachios, and the like, with a little 
sweet liqueur. The almonds and other 
nuts should be blanched, drained, 
and skinned, and allowed to stand 
for some hours before being used. 
They should then be placed just in- 
side the oven door to heat them thor- 
oughly, as they must be hot when put 
into the sirup. Nougat is used either 
to line molds or in the form of bars 
protected by layers of white wafer. 
For lining molds the nougat should 
be pressed into the mold with a lem- 
on until the inside is covered, and the 
edge of the mold should be trimmed 
with a sharp knife before it hardens, 
as it will then be brittle and likely 
to break. The mold should be oiled 



slightly and the nougat turned out as 
soon as it hardens. 

To Hake Ordinary Nougat. — 
Blanch, drain, and skin 1 pound of 
almonds, and let stand until thor- 
oughly dry before chopping or shred- 
ding them. Place the shredded alm- 
onds on a pie plate just inside an 
open oven door and dissolve in a. cop- 
per sugar boiler 10 ounces of granu- 
lated sugar, stirring with a wooden 
spoon until it begins to melt. Stir 
constantly until the sugar comes to 
the pearl degree. Now add the alm- 
onds and stir them in. Have ready 
suitable molds oiled thinly with olive 
oil by means of a camel's-hair brush 
and pressing small pieces of the nou- 
gat into the mold with a piece of 
lemon until they are well coated. 
Trim the edge of the mold with a 
sharp knife. Turn out the nougat as 
soon as it hardens. 

Marseilles Nougat. — Melt 8 ounces 
of honey and remove the scinn with a 
skimmer as fast as it appears. BoU 
to the crack degree 8 ounces of gran- 
ulated sugar, stir in the melted honey 
and J gill of orange-flower water; 
have ready in an egg bowl the whites 
of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth and 
pour into .the egg bowl in a thin 
stream the melted honey and sirup, 
stirring constanUy. Place the mix- 
ture over a slow fire and continue to 
stir. 

While the paste is baking, which 
will require about 3 hours' constant 
attention, test by dropping a spoon- 
ful of the paste in cold water. If 
it is brittie enough to be broken 
across without bending, it is done. 
Now stir in the almonds, lay out the 
white wafer on a molding board, and 
on this spread the nougat about 1 
inch deep. Cover with additional 
sheets of white wafer, lay a clean 
piece of white paper on top, and on 
this place a weight having a smooth 
surface, as a large weighted pan, to 
level it up. Let stand to cool and 
harden. Cut into any desired size, 
strips or bars, for use. 

Parisian Nougats. — Boil to the 
crack 6 ounces of granulated sugar. 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



539 



stir in 8 ounces of chopped pista- 
chio kernels, a ,few drops of cochi- 
neal, and coloring and flavoring mat- 
ter as desired. Spread out on a 
sheet of waxed paper, and while hot 
cut to any desired shapes and sizes 
with a sharp knife. This nougat may 
be dusted with granite sugar and 
cleaned currants if desired. 
^Peanut Nongat. — Boil to the crack 
1 pouijd of granulated sugar, and 
stir in 1 quart of peanuts shelled, 
screened, and chopped fine, and sprin- 
kled with J teaspoonful of salt. 
Pour out on waxed paper or in a 
buttered tin and cut into bars for 
use. 

POPCOEN CANDY 

Popcorn is used as an ingredient of 
candies in several forms, including 
the ordinary popcorn balls, popcorn 
cakes, bars, or nougats, and crystal- 
lized popcorn. 

Choose for this purpose a quality 
of popcorn which pops light and ten- 
der, and select , only the kernels 
that are fully open, discarding 
burned or partially opened kernels. 
Shake the corn in a coarse sieve to 
free it from dust and chaff. It will 
be found a great aid in popping corn 
to swing a. wire from a hook in the 
ceiling having a loop at the right 
height above the stove through which 
the handle of the popper can be 
passed. Thus the popper may be held 
over an open coal fire with less labor. 

To roU popcorn balls, dip the 
hands into very cold water before 
forming each ball and work quickly 
before the candy hardens. To im- 
prove the appearance of the balls, 
and also to prevent them sticking to 
the fingers, cut out a piece of tissue 
or waxed paper in circular form by 
cutting aroimd the edge of a large 
pie plate, lay the ball on this, bring 
the edges together and twist them 
up at the top. Store popcorn balls 
in a cold place to prevent the pop- 
corn from becoming tough. 

To Make Popcorn Balls. — Boil to 
the thread about 3J poimds of sugar 



with i pound of glucose and 1 pint 
of water. Place the popcorn in 
an earthenware bowl, pour the sirup 
over it, mix with 2 wooden paddles 
and form into balls with the wet 
hands. 

Or boil 4 pint of molasses about 
13 minutes to the stiff-baU degree. 
Place 3 quarts of popcorn in a wet 
earthenware bowl, pour the boiling 
molasses over it, mix with paddles, 
and roll with the wet hands. 

Or for a better quality of popcorn 
balls for home use, add to the above 
a good-sized piece of butter and 
flavor with lemon extract or other- 
wise as desired. 

Or boil to the hard snap 1 pint 
of sugar, J teaspoonful of butter, 
1 tablespoonful of vinegar with 
about J teacupful of soft water. 
Have ready about 1 peck of freshly 
popped corn in a wet pan or tub, dip 
the boiling sirup over it, mix with 
wooden paddles, roll with the wet 
hands. 

Popcorn Cakes. — Prepare sirup 
according to any of the above rules, 
but crush the corn with a rolling-pin. 
Stir the corn into the kettle when the 
sirup is at the hard-snap stage, and 
pour into buttered tins. Lay over 
the 'top a piece of buttered or waxed 
paper, and let stand imder pressure 
to harden. When cold and hard cut 
into cakes with a thin, sharp knife 
blade. 

Crystallized Popcorn. — Place in an 
iron kettle or frying pan 1 teacup- 
ful of granulated sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, or less, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of water. Boil to the hard 
snap, stir in 2 or 3 quarts of popcorn 
and continue stirring until it is en- 
tirely dry. This amount of sirup will 
give a heavy coating' of sugar to 2 
quarts, or a lighter coat to 3 quarts. 
A beginner is apt to think that the 
sirup is not sufficient for the quan- 
tity of corn, but with constant stir- 
ring it wiU come out all right. Con- 
tinue to stir until the corn is dry, but 
take care that the fire is not hot 
enough to scorch it. Nuts may be 
crystallized in a similar way. 



540 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



LOZENGES 

Peppermint lozenges. — Place 1 
ounce of picked gum tragacanth In 
an earthenware vessel covered with S 
ounces of warm water and let stand 
over night. Squeeze it through a 
cheese cloth, pour it out on a marble 
or other hard, smooth surface, and 
knead it with the palms of the hands 
until it becomes white and springy. 
Knead in gradually enough Confec- 
tioners' XXX sugar to make a stiff 
paste. About IJ pounds wiU be re- 
quired. HoUow the top of the mass, 
sprinkle over it i teaspoonful of 
essence of peppermint and 2 or 3 
drops of strong cobalt blue to make 
a brilliant white. Knead this in thor- 
oughly, flatten out the mass, sprinkle 
top and bottom with Confectioners' 
XXX sugar, and roll out to J inch 
or less in thickness. Stamp out the 
lozenges with a suitable cutter, and 
place them on sheets of paper dusted 
with confectioners' sugar to dry and 
harden. 

Or stir together J pound of pure 
starch, 3J pounds of Confectioners' 
XXX sugar, and flavor with oil of 
peppermint. Mix to a stiff paste 
with dissolved gum arable. Roll out 
and cut to any desired shape. 

Licorice Lozenges. — Stir up 2 
pounds of Confectioners' XXX sugar 
with 1 pound of pure concentrated 
extract of licorice, knead to a stiff 
paste with the aid of a little dis- 
solved gmn arable, and mold or 
stamp to any desired shape. 

Or mix 10 ounces of Confectioners' 
XXX sugar, 3 ounces of powdered 
gum tragacanth, with 10 ounces of 
pure concentrated essence of licorice. 
Knead to a stiff paste with the aid 
of a little rose' water, and form into 
drops or lozenges. The refined ex- 
tract of licorice comes in solid form 
and after being dried for a few days 
in a warm place can be easily re- 
duced to powder and mixed with the 
other ingredients. 

Ginger Lozenges. — Place i ounce 
of gum arable in an earthenware 
bowl, pour over it 1 gill of hot wa- 



ter, and let stand to cool. Stir to 
a stiff paste with Confectioners' 
XXX sugar, of which about 14 ounces 
will be required, and flavor with J 
spoonful of powdered ginger. Knead 
to a stiff paste, roll out, and cut or 
mold to any desired form. 

Sweet Almond Lozenges. — Knead 
together to a stiff paste IJ pounds 
of Confectioners' XXX sugar, 4 
pound of wheat or cornstarch, 1 
pound of powdered blanched alm- 
onds. Flavor with essence of orange 
or lemon if desired. 

COXTGH CAKDIES 

Hoarhound Candy. — Boil the hoar- 
hound in a little water until the juice 
is extracted, and strain through 
cheese cloth. Boil any desired quan- 
tity of sugar with just enough water 
to dissolve it and stir in the juice. 
Work the sugar with a spoon against 
the sides of the pan until it grows 
thick and creamy. Pour out in a 
buttered pan. When nearly cold 
mark into squares and let dry. 

Or boil the sugar until candied 
and stir in dry and powdered hoar- 
hound. Pour out in buttered tins to 
cool. 

Pine-tree Tar Cough Candy. — To 
10 pounds of granulated sugar add 3 
pints of water. BoU to the hard 
snap, pour out and while cooling 
spread on top 10 drops of tar (made 
by dissolving 1 tablespoonful of tar 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of alcohol), 1 ta- 
blespoonful of oil of capsicum, IJ ta- 
blespoonfuls of oil of wintergreen. 
W6rk together with the hands or a 
wooden paddle until these substances 
are thoroughly worked in, keeping 
the mass warm before the tie, or by 
means of a. soapstone. Roll into 
round sticks and keep rolling until 
cold. 

TO COLOE AND FLAVOR CANDY 

Colorings for Candy. — Coloring 
matter for candies can be purchased 
in small jars for a few cents each. 
These are so intense that a drop wUl 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



541 



tint a pound of candy. Hence they 
will last a long time. Red, yellow, 
orange, light green, violet, mara- 
schino, constitute a good assortment. 
Some knowledge of color is necessary 
to a tasteful effect. White cream 
may, of course, be coated with any 
other color, but colored cream should 
be coated only with tints or shades 
of the same color. Otherwise the 
center will show through and pro- 
duce an unsatisfactory effect. The 
center should usually be of a lighter 
tint than the coating. A good rule 
when coating bonbons is, after hav- 
ing formed the centers, to set the 
fondant away for twenty-four hours. 
Then melt it with a little added 
coloring matter to give a deeper 
shade and coat the centers in this. 
Thus maple cream may be coat- 
ed with maple fondant, chocolate 
cream with chocolate fondant, and 
the like. 

It is customary with confectioners 
to associate certain coloring with cer- 
tain flavoring. Almond or pistachio 
cream are usually tinted green. Or- 
ange or lemon flavoring are tinted 
with those colors. Rose is tinted 
pink. A good way to obtain sugges- 
tions for producing tasteful and ar- 
tistic effects is to study the display 
in a good candy shop and imitate 
what you like best. 

To Color Confectionery. — Care 
must, of course, be taken in coloring 
confectionery not to use aniline dyes, 
mineral pigments, lakes, or any other 
substance of a poisonous nature. 
The animal and vegetable dyestuffs 
are usually harmless in small quanti- 
ties, but the following combinations 
are especially recommended: 

To Color Red. — Cover 1 ounce of 
cochineal with J pint of boiling wa- 
ter and boil about 5 minutes. Stir 
in 1 ounce of cream of tartar, i 
ounce of powdered alum, and con- 
tinue boiling about 10 minutes. 
Test by letting a few drops fall on a 
piece of clean white paper. If the 
color is not sufficiently clear and 
bright, boU a little longer. When 
done, stir in 3 ounces of granulated 



sugar and put up in a stoppered 
glass bottle for use. 

To Color Blue. — ^Dissolve a little 
indigo stone in warm water and test 
with a few drops on a piece of white 
paper. Continue to add more indigo 
until the color is bright and clear. 

To Color Yellow. — Dissolve a little 
gamboge in warm water, or the heart 
of a yellow lily with warm water, vm- 
til the bright tint is produced. 

Or steep J ounce of saffron in soft 
water for 24 hours or more untU the 
proper tint is obtained. 

Or for small quantities, a good 
pinch of saffron in a spoonful of wa- 
ter may be boiled until the water is 
nearly evaporated. Squeeze out the 
juice through cheese cloth. This col- 
or is an orange yellow, and a few 
drops will go a long way. 

To Color Green. — Cover fresh spin- 
ach leaves with boiling water and let 
stand two or three minutes, or until 
the color is as strong as desired. 
Cork tightly to exclude the air. 

Or steep J ounce of saffron in soft 
water for 24 hours and steep sepa- 
rately i ounce of indigo carmine for 
the same length of time. Mix the 
two for use. This mixture can be 
preserved for a considerable time 
by adding clarified sirup and pre- 
serving in a closely stoppered glass 
vessel. 

Or for a larger quantity, wash a 
peck of fresh green spinach very 
carefully in several waters to remove 
all grit, and while dripping wet 
pound it with a suitable mallet or 
any piece of hard wood, to a soft 
pulp. Place this pulp in several 
thicknesses of cheese cloth and wring 
out the juice, which may be done by 
twisting the ends of the cloth by 
means of short sticks or rods. Place 
the juice over a gentle fire until it be- 
gins to curdle or thicken. Strain off 
the water through a piece of cheese 
cloth, leaving the thick part of the 
spinach juice on the cloth. This is 
the vegetable green or spinach green 
for confectioners. Care must be 
taken in drying substances colored 
with this material, as if the heat is 



54^ 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



too strong it is likely to take on a 
yellowish cast. 

To Color Pink. — ^Use a little car- 
mine moistened with rose water. 

Granite Sugar. — Crush by crack- 
ing it with a hammer a pound of fine 
loaf sugar into small lumps. Place 
these on a hard, smooth surface and 
break them up fine with a wooden 
mallet or any smooth piece of hard 
wood. Shake first through a coarse 
sieve to remove the lumps, and after- 
wards through a very fine sieve to re- 
move the powdered sugar. The re- 
sult will be in grains of intermediate 
size, like coarse sand or gravel, 
known by confectioners as granite 
sugar. 

To Color Granite Sugar. — Any of 
the above coloring matters may be 
used to tint granite sugar to any de- 
sired stage. Pour a few drops of the 
coloring matter on a plate, spread 
the sugar over this, and dry on a 
screen with very moderate heat. 
While drying, rub the sugar fre- 
quently between the hands to prevent 
the corners sticking together. Pre- 
serve in a closely stoppered glass 
bottle in a warm, dry place for use. 

Flavorings for Candy. — Buy only 
the most expensive grades of flavor- 
ing extracts for candies. Every first- 
class dealer has the better qualities 
or can obtain them on request. This 
is important for two reasons: the 
flavor of the candy will be improved 
and a few drops only will be re- 
quired. The less moisture added to 
fondant the easier it is to work. 

Or buy the essential oUs of rose, 
wintergreen, peppermint, cloves, and 
others, drop them on lump sugar, 
pulverize the sugar with a rolling- 
pin and carefully preserve in tightly 
stoppered bottles untU required for 
use. 

To Flavor Sugar. — As a matter of 
convenience in flavoring candies, it is 
customary with confectioners to fla- 
vor in advance a quantity of loaf or 
other sugar and have it in readiness 
to be mixed with sirup to impart any 
flavoring that may be desired. Fla- 
voring matter should not be added to 



sirup untU the process of boiliag is 
at an end and the sirup is ready to be 
taken from the fire, otherwise the 
flavor, which is usually imparted by 
one of the volatile essential oils, will 
be evaporated and lost. 

To Flavor Orange. — Grate the rind 
of 1 or more oranges on a suitable 
quantity of lump sugar and place 
the whole in a tightly stoppered bot- 
tle untU the sugar has been thor- 
oughly impregnated and the rind 
dries and can be readily scraped off. 
Remove the rind and preserve the 
sugar for future use. 

To Prepare Lemon Sugar. — Grate 
the rind of 1 or more lemons and 
prepare in the same manner as or- 
ange sugar. 

Cinnamon Sugar. — ^Dry J ounce of 
cinnamon and pvilverize with § pound 
of loaf sugar by grinding in a mor- 
tar or with a suitable piece of hard 
wood. Cork tightly and preserve for 
use. 

Clove Sugar. — Pulverize 1 ounce of 
cloves to i pound of loaf sugar and 
preserve in the same manner as cin- 
namon sugar. 

Ginger Sugar. — ^Preserve J ounce 
of pulverized ginger in the manner 
described above for cinnamon su- 
gar. 

Vanilla Sugar. — Pulverize 4 sticks 
of vanilla with J poimd of loaf sugar 
and preserve for use. 

ICES Asm ICING 

Icings for Candy and Cake. — 
Icing, as ordinarily made, consists of 
powdered sugar beaten up to a stiff 
froth with white of egg. Gum ara- 
ble is frequently used to give addi- 
tional stiffness. The addition of but- 
ter or cream improves the flavor and 
prevents the icing from drying rap- 
idly or cracking when cut, and va- 
rious flavoring and coloring matters 
are added as desired. Icing may be 
of two sorts, either boiled or im- 
cooked. 

Uncooked Icing. — Beat up the 
whites of any required number of 
eggs to a stiff froth and whip into 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



54S 



them Confectioners' XXX sugar un- 
til the icing is of the desired con- 
sistency. Generally speaMng, the 
white of 1 egg will make _ sufScient 
icing for a small cake or S eggs for 
a. large one. And the white of 1 egg 
will require J pound of sugar, more 
or less. Some prefer to add the 
sugar gradually, while the white of 
egg is being beaten. The addition of 
a little lemon juice, while beating, 
will improve the color and flavor. 
The following recipe is recommended: 

Beat up the wliites of 3 eggs to a 
stiff froth, wMp in 4 pound of Con- 
fectioners' XXX or powdered su- 
gar, J tablespoonful of starch, J 
ounce of pulverized gum arable or 
less, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Mix the sugar, starch, and, 
gum arable together, and sift them 
into the white of egg. The longer 
the mixture is whipped or beaten the 
better the icing will be. 

Boiled Icing. — For an ordinary 
cake, boU a cupful of sugar to the 
thread. Beat in the white of 1 egg, 
1 tablespoonful of cream or 1 tea- 
spoonful of butter. Now stir in, if 
convenient, 3 or 4 marshmaUows and 
i teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 
Beat the whole tmtil cold. 

To Apply Icing. — ^To ice the top of 
a cake, but not the sides, dust the top 
with a little flour to Idll the grease, 
which prevents the icing from run- 
ning, brush, blow, or dust off the ex- 
cess of flour and cut a band of white 
paper long enough to go around the 
cake and IJ inches wide, grease the 
inside with butter, dust it with flour, 
and pin it around the cake so that 
the upper edge will be J inch or 
more above the top. Pour on the 
frosting evenly, when if thin enough 
it will settle in a perfectly smooth 
and even surface. Let stand until it 
hardens, run a thin-bladed knife be- 
tween the cake and the paper, and 
take off the paper. 

Or, after dusting the cake with 
flour, spread the icing with a broad 
knife blade or thin wooden paddle 
dipped in iced water, and set it on 
the edge of an oven to harden, taking 



care that the oven is not hot enough 
to brown it. 

Or a second coat of fresh icing 
may be added the following day or 
after the first layer is hardened. Any 
ornamentation mu%t be added while 
the icing is wet, as otherwise it wiU 
not adhere. 

To Ornament Icing, — ^For this pur- 
pose prepare a special icing by beat- 
ing slightly the white of 1 egg and 
stirring in gradually 3 cups of Con- 
fectioners' XXX sugar. Add the 
juice of i a lemon and beat the 
whole until the mixture is stiff and 
elastic. Now make a paper cone of 
stiff white writing paper, pinning the 
side and clipping off the point, so 
that the icing can come through in a 
pencil or point of any desired thick- 
ness. Small tin cones are provided 
which may be used for tWs purpose, 
but the paper cone will answer. Fill 
this with the icing J or § full, fold in 
the top and press on it with the 
thumbs to force the icing through the 
small end of the funnel. 

Ice the cake as above, let it stand 
for fifteen or twenty minutes until 
the icing is "tacky" but not hard, 
trace the design on the cake lightly 
with a lead pencil and follow it with 
the icing forced through the paper 
funnel. The icing may be flavored 
and tinted as desired. 

Chocolate Icing. — ^A quick way to 
make chocolate icing for cake is to 
place a few good chocolate creams 
in a saucepan, add a tablespoonful or 
less of hot water or milk, and place 
it in a pan of hot water or over the 
steam of a teakettle until the choco- 
lates are dissolved. Stir thorouglily 
and apply. 

Or add to 1 pint of boUed icing 
prepared in the usual way 1 ounce of 
grated chocolates and the yolks of 2 
eggs; Mix and apply. 

Or beat up the white of an egg 
in a bowl, dissolve i pound of grated 
chocolate in 1 cup of milk in a double 
boiler, stir in a cupful of powdered 
sugar and 1 teaspoonful of vaniUa. 
Pour the mixture over the white of 
egg and beat to a stiff froth. 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Coffee Icing.— To 1 pint of icing 
prepared in the usual way add 2 
ounces of strong black coffee, J ounce 
of confectioners' sugar, and the yolks 
of 3 eggs. 

HONET AND BEESWAX 

Honey. — Honey is not, as some 
suppose, produced by bees, but is the 
sweet material collected from flowers 
by the honeybee and stored by them 
as food for themselves and their pro- 
geny, hence the aroma and flavor of 
honey varies with its source, that 
from white clover or buckwheat usu- 
ally being regarded as the best. In 
Turkey and some other countries 
honey produced by certain plants is 
poisonous, and that of others is in- 
jurious to health. Honey is fre- 
quently adulterated with glycerin 
and glucose, and various imitations 
of honey can be made of other mate- 
rials suitably flavored vrith various 
essential oils. 

Honey is deposited by bees in wax 
cells known as honeycomb. When 
pure it consists partly of a sirup of 
sugar that wiU not crystallize, and 
partly of crystallized grains some- 
what like grape sugar. The finest 
quality, called virgin honey, is that 
which drips freely from the comb. 
The ordinary quality is obtained by 
melting the comb and extracting the 
honey by pressure. It should be 
noted that if honey is heated in iron 
or copper utensils it takes on a dark- 
er color, hence porcelain, earthen- 
ware, or tinware should be employed 
for this purpose. The proper pro- 
portion of water to be added in ex- 
tracting or purifying honey is equal 
parts by weight. 

To Extract Honey. — ^First strain 
the comb through a sieve to free the 
honey from the wax. Melt it with gen- 
tle heat in a double boiler and take off 
the scum with a skimmer as fast as it 
appears. Let cool, pour into jars and 
seal with parafSn, waxed tops, or 
otherwise, so as to be air-tight. 

To Preserve Honey in the Comb. — 
Set aside for this purpose combs that 



do not contain pollen, stand them 
edgewise in earthenware jars or tin 
cans, and cover them with extracted 
honey. Cover the tops with paraffin 
or otherwise to exclude the air. 

To Clarify Honey. — Melt down 
the pure honey in a double boiler of 
porcelain or earthenware, and strain 
while hot through a flannel cloth 
dipped in hot water. This dissolves 
the crystals and converts the honey 
into a uniform thick sirup. The test 
is not as acceptable, but the honey 
keeps better and is more wholesome. 

Or beat up the white of an egg to 
a stiff froth and whip it into 4 or 5 
pounds of honey. Stir in pure water 
to make a sirup of the consistency of 
cream, and boil until the white of egg 
can be removed with a skimmer. 
Pour out the honey into a milk can 
or other receptacle having a spigot or 
faucet at the bottom, and let stand 
for about a month. Then draw off 
the clarified honey from the spigot. 

Or melt down the honey in a dou- 
ble boiler with clear water to a sirup 
of the consistency of cream, and stir 
in 6 ounces of purified animal char- 
coal to 8 poimds of honey. Simmer 
with gentle heat for 30 minutes. 
If the sirup is sour, stir in a little 
prepared chalk to sweeten it, strain 
through a flannel cloth dipped in hot 
water, and let stand over a slow fire 
until the excess of water it contains 
is removed by evaporation. 

Or dissolve the honey with water 
in a double boiler, and let it boil up 
briskly, stirring four or five times at 
intervals, but not skimming. Re- 
move from the fire, let cool and pour 
on cloth strainers covered with an 
inch or more of fresh white sand. 
After the honey has run through, 
pour on gradually clear water, to 
rinse the strainer, and finally with 
gentle heat evaporate the excess of 
water from the honey. 

Or to clarify on a large scale, mix 
9 large fresh eggs with 2i gallons of 
water for each half barrel of honey, 
in a tin-lined vat. Simmer with gen- 
tle heat, skim and filter through 
strong linen strainers covered with 



CANDIES AND CANDY MAKING 



545 



about 1 inch of clear white sand. 
Afterwards evaporate the excess of 
water with gentle heat. 

To Make Artificial Honey. — ^The 
cost of pure honey is so great that 
various artificial preparations are 
manufactured, and these may be put 
up if desired for home use in place 
of honey and maple sirup at less ex- 
pense. 

Dissolve in 1 pint of boiling water 
J ounce of alum. Remove from the 
fire, stir in 4 pounds of granulated 
sugar, bring to a boil and stir until 
dissolved. Remove quickly, strain 
through cheese cloth, and when near- 
ly cool stir in 1 teaspoonful of arti- 
ficial honey-flavoring extract com- 
posed as follows: 

To i pint of 98 per cent alcohol 
add J ounce of Jamaica ginger, 3 
drops of attar of roses and shake 
weU before using. TWs extract must 
be prepared in small quantities only 
as required for use. This was for- 
merly closely guarded as a trade se- 
cret, and a great deal of artificial 
honey made from this recipe has been 
placed upon the market. 

Or to make so-called French honey, 
break into a bowl 4 large fresh eggs 
and add the yolks of 3 more. Stir 
in 1 pound of granulated sugar, add 
the juice of 4 lemons and the grated 
rind of 3, and stir in i pound of 
butter. Melt over a slow fire to the 
consistency of honey. 

In addition to the above are nu- 
merous recipes for diluting or adul- 
terating pure honey with sugar sirup 
and various flavoring substances. 

Dissolve 8 pounds of white sugar 
in 2 quarts of water, boil 4 min- 
utes, stir in 1 pound of pure honey 
and while hot strain through a flan- 
nel cloth dipped in hot water. When 
nearly cool add 1 or 2 drops of oil of 
peppermint and a drop of attar of 
roses. 

A standard recipe consists of a mix- 
ture of S pounds of clear light-brown 
or coffee sugar, IJ pounds of bee- 
bred honey, IJ pounds of soft water, 
20 grains of pure cream of tartar, I J 
ounces of gum arable. Boil these in- 



gredients in a porcelain or tinware 
utensil for 6 minutes. Then add an 
infusion of 1 teaspoonful of pulver- 
ized slippery elm bark in 8 ounces of 
water, straining it into the mixture 
through a piece of cheese cloth. 

Now stir in the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, boil 2 min- 
utes, remove the white of egg with a 
skimmer as it rises, remove and when 
lukewarm flavor with 1 drop of at- 
tar of roses, 6 drops of oil of pepper- 
mint, and add J pound or more of 
pure honey. This is an old standard 
recipe that perhaps can hardly be 
improved upon. The decoction of 
slippery elm should, however, be 
omitted in warm weather, as other- 
wise it wiU ferment and cause a 
scum on the surface. The larger the 
quantity of pure honey the better 
will be the flavor and value of the 
product. 

Or 1 pound of honey will impart 
its natural flavor to about double the 
weight of pure white sugar, thus 
making a useful sirup for domestic 
purposes, nearly equal in value to the 
pure honey, and less likely to disa- 
gree with those who are unable to use 
the pure article. To make this sirup 
dissolve 3 pounds of pure granulated 
sugar in about 13 or 15 ounces of 
boiling water, and add 1 ounce of 
gum arable dissolved in a little boil- 
ing water, or the white of 1 egg. 
Bring to a boil and remove the scum 
with a skimmer as it appears. Re- 
move this clarified sugar sirup from 
the fire and stir in 8 ounces of pure 
bee honey. When partially cool, stir 
in 4 ounces more, and when luke- 
warm stir in the remaining 4 oimces, 
making 1 pound all told. Flavor 
when nearly cold with a few drops of 
essence of peppermint and a drop or 
two of attar of roses. The quality 
can be improved by the use of a little 
less water and the addition of a some- 
what larger proportion of honey. 

To Prepare Beeswax. — To prepare 
beeswax melt the honeycomb in boil- 
ing water. Let cool, when the wax 
will form a cake on the surface. Re- 
move the cake, scrape off any im- 



546 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



purities from the bottom, and repeat 
if necessary. 

To Befine Beeswax. — ^Add about 5 
per cent water to crude beeswax and 
melt with gentle heat. Raise to a 
boil, let boil for a few minutes, and 
add about 1 per cent concentrated 
nitric acid. Use for this purpose an 
earthenware vessel set in boiling wa- 
ter, and continue to boU until the 
fimies of the acid cease to be evolved. 

Or when the melted wax has boiled 
for a few minutes scatter S or 6 
per cent of sulphuric acid over the 
surface of the melted wax. It must 
be done with care. If the vessel is 
not sufSciently deep the wax will 
froth up and run over the sides. Af- 
ter adding the acid cover the mix- 
ture, remove it from the fire, and be- 
fore it is quite cool skim it off with 
a heated ladle. Take care not to dis- 
turb the sediment. Scrape the im- 
purities from the inside of the cake. 
Remelt and strain through cheese 
cloth. The addition of a little an- 
notto will improve the color of the wax. 

To Whiten Beeswax. — Melt up the 
wax with gentle heat and dip into it 
thin hard-wood boards, plates, or 
any suitable flat articles previously 
dipped in water to prevent the wax 
sticking. When these are removed 
they will be covered with a thin plate 
of wax. Loosen this film of wax with 
a knife and strip it off. Spread these 
thin sheets upon a white cloth upon 
the grass and expose them to the sun 
and air to bleach. Afterwards re- 
melt and form into cakes. 

Or melt the wax with hot water 
and squeeze through a fine linen 
cloth. Pour in shallow molds and 
when hard expose to the air, sprink- 
ling frequently with water and turning 
from time to time until quite white. 

To Color Beeswax. — To color bees- 
wax, add bright palm oil. Or as a 
sufficient quantity of palm oil to col- 
or adulterates the wax, color with 
annotto in the proportion of about 4 
ounces to 100 pounds of wax, accord- 
ing to the color required. Shave the 
annotto in 3 to 4 quarts of soft wa- 



ter, to which add about 1 pound of 
wax, let boil until the water is evapo- 
rated and the wax is of a deep- 
orange color. Melt the remainder of 
the wax, and stir in the colored wax 
until the proper shade is produced. 
Test from time to time by cooling a 
little on a glass plate. 

Bottle Wax. — To make wax for 
sealing corked bottles and similar 
purposes, melt together 6J ounces of 
black rosin, J ounce of beeswax, and 
IJ oimces of fine ivory black. 

Or for red wax, substitute li 
ounces of Venetian red or red lead 
for the ivory black. 

Or mix 1 pound of beeswax, 1 
pound of rosin, i pound of tallow. 
Color with red or yeUow ocher or 
other coloring matter. Melt and stir 
together. 

Or for white wax, substitute 
bleached wax for beeswax and color 
with Spanish white. 

To Test Adulterated Wax. — Bees- 
wax is sometimes adulterated with 
spermaceti or Japanese wax. To test 
for Japanese wax, cover a sample 
with concentrated solution of borax 
and bring it to a boil. Beeswax is 
insoluble in this solution, but Japa- 
nese wax dissolves and forms on 
cooling a milky-white sticky coating. 

Imitation of Beeswax. — ^Melt to- 
gether 14 pounds of yellow rosin, 7 
pounds of suet, 1 pound of turmeric, 
2 pounds of potato flour and mix and 
form into cakes before it cools. If 
the color is too bright, add a little 
ivory black. Rub each cake when 
cold with flour. 

Or 8 pounds of yeUow rosin, 4 
pounds of pure mutton tallow or 
stearin, and IJ pounds of palm oil. 

Or substitute J pound of turmeric 
in place of palm oil. 

Or place 1 ounce of pure annotto in 
1 quart of water. Bring to a boil, 
stir in S pounds of mutton suet or 
stearin, 10 pounds of yellow rosin, 
stir and boU until weU mixed and 
colored. Pour into molds to cool. 
Dust the cakes when cold with corn- 
starch. 



CHAPTER XXI 

CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 

CANNED GOODS FOR MARKET— UTENSILS AND MATERIALS — 
PROCESS OP CANNING AND PRESERVING — PRESERVES AND 
PRESERVING — OLD - FASHIONED RECIPES — MISCELLANEOUS 
RULES AND SUGGESTIONS 



The art of preserving and canning 
frmt is much more important than is 
usually realized. Preserved fruit is, 
perhaps, most often classed with 
candy and other sweetmeats as an 
expensive luxury. But fruit, prop- 
erly put up, is not necessarily expen- 
sive and may be regarded as a very 
essential part of the diet in winter. 
The value of fruit in the diet can 
hardly be overestimated. The fruit 
juices have a peculiarly wholesome 
effect upon the digestive organs and 
tend to keep the blood in good con- 
dition. They also, to a large extent, 
prevent the necessity for cathartic 
medicines. Fresh fruit in season 
should, of course, have the prefer- 
ence, but in winter properly canned 
fruit and preserves take their place 
with almost equally good effect in the 
diet. 

Preserving and Canning. — These 
terms are used somewhat loosely, but 
the word preserves more properly ap- 
plies to the old-fashioned method of 
our grandmothers, which consisted in 
boiling the fruit in sirup after the 
time-honored recipe of " pound for 
pound." This process, to be entirely 
successful, is difficult and tedious. It 
is also expensive on account of the 
amount of sugar required. The old- 
fashioned preserves are stiU favored 
by some, but the easier, quicker, and 
cheaper method of canning has large- 
ly deposed them. The term "pre- 
serves " also covers j ams and marma- 
lade, which are fruit, or mixtures of 
fruit, stewed to » smooth paste. 



Fruit Jellies. — These dainties are 
made of fruit pressed and strained 
from the pulp and boiled until clear; 
the scum, as fast as it rises, being re- 
moved with a skimmer. Sugar is 
then added at the rate of one pound 
for each pint of boiling liquor, and 
the whole is stirred over the fire un- 
til the sugar dissolves. It is then 
poured into tumblers or jars which 
have been previously boiled and al- 
lowed to stand in hot water on the 
back of the stove until needed. The 
jars are then covered to exclude dust 
and allowed to stand until they are 
cold. One or more layers of tissue 
paper saturated with brandy or other 
spirits are pressed tightly over the 
top of the cold jeUy, and metal or 
paper lids are fastened over the 
whole. Or after the paper dipped in 
spirits hds been put in place the tops 
may be covered with a thin layer of 
cotton batting. 

Or jelly may be covered by pour- 
ing over it a thin coating of melted 
paraffin. 

CASTSHD GOODS FOR UABEET 

Money in Preserving Fruit. — In 
addition to the importance of pre- 
serving fruit for home use there is a 
large and constantly increasing mar- 
ket both locally and in the large 
cities for a fine grade of homemade 
canned fruit and preserves. Prices 
ranging from seventy-five cents to 
$1.50 per quart at retail for a high 
grade domestic article are not infre- 



547 



548 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



quent. After deducting the cost of 
fruit, sugar, and other materials in- 
cluding jars, rings, bottle wax, labels, 
the cost of packing and transporta- 
tion, and the labor cost (at a nominal 
figure, say, ten or fifteen cents an 
hour) for all time actually engaged 
in picking the fruit, preserving, and 
packing it, there should be a profit 
of at least 100 per cent clear to the 
maker. And after a reputation has 
been established for a product of 
uniformly high quality, even better 
prices can be realized. This is not 
only a practical way for any house- 
keeper to earn extra pin money, but 
in many localities it is the only feasi- 
ble method of marketing the fruit 
crop. 

Ordinarily so much fruit ripens in 
about the same time in villages and 
rural commimities, that there is no 
sale for it at any price. And the 
comparatively small amount of fruit 
grown by one famUy, together with 
the distance to the nearest market, 
makes it unprofitable to pack and 
ship the fruit as it ripens to a com- 
mission merchant. But the smallest 
quantities of ripe fruit can be gath- 
ered and canned from day to day 
during the season, and thus a suffi- 
cient quantity can be accumulated to 
justify the time and cost of packing 
and shipping by freight to the near- 
est city. 

Or if the quantity is large enough, 
it may be worth while to make a trip 
in person, taking a sample of the 
product, in order to make an advan- 
tageous sale to some large consumer. 
Commission merchants and wholesale 
grocery houses are usually glad to 
buy, at fair prices, all the homemade 
goods of this sort they can obtain. 
But the stewards of the finest hotels 
and clubs such as, for example, the 
country clubs that are springing up 
all over the United States, wiU often 
pay fancy prices for an especially 
fine article. 

Even local merchants have a con- 
siderable demand for these goods 
and will sometimes make a special 
eflFort to seU them for a good cus- 



tomer. Or orders can be secured 
from neighbors by means of an ad- 
vertisement in the local paper or by 
tactful solicitation. 

The principal difficulty met in the 
sale of homemade goods is the com- 
mon belief among merchants and oth- 
ers that they may not be of uniformly 
high quality. Factory-made goods 
are nowadays done up with scientific 
care and accuracy. The jars are 
carefully inspected and the fruit very 
rarely molds or sours. 

Unless one is willing, therefore, to 
take every step with the most rigid 
and painstaking thoroughness, it is 
useless to attempt to compete with 
the factory product. But once a 
well - deserved reputation has been 
buUt up, a demand will have been 
created for all that one will ordi- 
narily wish to supply. 

Many women earn a living for 
themselves or contribute largely to 
the family income by thus creating 
a market for aU the fruit that their 
husbands can grow. Many others 
find it profitable to buy fruit from 
their neighbors, employ and carefully 
train assistants and put up hundreds 
of dollars' worth of fruit annually. 

To Pack Canned Fruit for Uarket. 
— Use only the best quality of all- 
glass fruit jars. Do not attempt to 
economize on labels, but obtain the 
most attractive that money will buy. 
A distinctive label is an immensely 
important point in promoting sales 
and building up a reputation for 
one's product. Cement the labels 
neatly and securely in a uniform po- 
sition on the jars. Wrap each jar in 
stout colored wrapping paper, fold 
and seal top and bottom with muci- 
lage, or by means of a label gummed 
over all, and place a label on the out- 
side of the wrapper in addition to 
that on the jar itself. 

The best method of packing is to 
obtain from a dealer cylinders of 
the proper size of corrugated card- 
board which are made for this pur- 
pose. Also a supply of the same 
cardboard to place between the lay- 
ers of jars. If your annual output 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 



549 



is large enough, sviitable cases to hold 
a quarter gross or half gross of jars 
can be made at home, or for a trifle 
by a local carpenter. This will be 
returned by the purchaser on request. 

Or the jars may be packed in stout 
packing cases or barrels and sur- 
rounded with excelsior, straw, or hay. 
An excellent method is to place be- 
tween two sheets of thin manilla pa- 
per a layer of excelsior and stitch or 
quilt the whole together at intervals 
with long stitches such as are used in 
basting. The whole may then be cut 
with shears to proper lengths, be- 
tween the rows of basting, in which 
to wrap up the separate jars, the 
box or barrel can be lined with it, 
and one or more thicknesses of the 
same can be placed between the dif- 
ferent layers of jars. In addition 
excelsior should be crowded between 
the jars so that no two jars come 
in contact with one another at any 
point. 

If packing cases are used, the ex- 
celsior must be crowded in at the top, 
so that the contents cannot move, and 
the lids securely nailed on. It is easy 
to ascertain by shaking it vigorously 
whether the case has been packed 
solidly. If there is any rattling 
heard, the case should be repacked. 

If barrels are used it is sufBcient 
to take off the top hoop and cover 
the top with a piece of canvas or bur- 
lap. Replace the hoop over the cloth 
and put on the top a stout label 
marked "Glass, This Side Up With 
Care." Better care is frequently 
given a package thus left without a 
head than to a sealed box or barrel. 
Place even dozens in each package, 
and be sure to make an accurate 
count. Have a printed billhead and 
promptly notify the consignee of the 
time of shipment by mailing the bill 
with a courteous note. 

To Fix a Price on Canned Qoods. 
— Keep account of all time taken in 
picking, preserving, or packing fruit 
and figure out what it would cost 
you to hire the work done by ordi- 
nary day labor. Usually ten or fif- 
teen cents an hour is a fair figure. 



Add to this the cost of fruit and su- 
gar actually consumed, jars and all 
accessories, including packing, mate- 
rial, labor, etc., and when you have 
thus arrived at the actual cost in- 
cluding labor, double this amount to 
allow yourself 100 per cent profit. 
If at first you are unable to sell your 
goods at this price or better, it is 
probably because you are inexperi- 
enced. Either you are not taking ad- 
vantage of the work, or others are 
taking advantage of you in the price 
you are paying for labor or material. 
But 100 per cent profit is the ideal 
you should have in view, and some 
persons making homemade canned 
goods realize two or three times as 
much on their investment. 

Storing Preserves. — Canned fruits 
and preserves should be stored in a 
cool, dark, dry place. The cellar is 
not the best place unless it is dry and 
weU ventilated. A storeroom parti- 
tioned off from the cellar and built 
of concrete is an ideal apartment for 
this purpose. In houses that are 
heated, a dark, airy closet in the up- 
per part of the house is a good place. 
But of course, preserves must not be 
placed where they will freeze in cold 
weather. If it is necessary to store 
them in an ordinary cellar to prevent 
freezing a swinging shelf should be 
constructed for this purpose. The 
jars should be allowed to become 
stone cold before being stored away, 
and they will keep much better if 
carefully wrapped in dark-colored 
paper folded and pasted top and bot- 
tom, and labeled on the outside so 
that it will not be necessary to dis- 
turb the wrappers until they are re- 
quired for use. 

VTESrSILS AND UATEBIALS 

TJtensils for Canning Fruit. — ^The 
most useful utensil for canning fruit 
in aonsiderable quantities, is an ordi- 
nary tin wash boiler, such as is used 
in the laundry, cut down to conve- 
nient size. As this utensil will not 
ordinarily have a great deal of wear, 
a cheap tin wash boiler may be pur- 



550 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



chased, or an old wash boiler that has 
been discarded may, by means of 
patches and solder, be put into suffi- 
ciently good order to answer this 
purpose. Measure from the bottom 
of the wash boiler to a point four or 
five inches higher than the top of an 
ordinary quart fruit jar, mark a line 
aU around at this point, and have a 
tinsmith cut it off on this line. Or 
you can cut it off yourself with a 
chisel and hammer by inserting the 
end of a block of wood and striking 
against this. But it is better to have 
this work done by a tinsmith, and 
have him turn over the sharp edge so 



its steaming depths when remdving 
the empty jars or jars full of fruit. 
A large porcelain preserving ket- 
tle holding ten or twelve quarts, a 




"A Utensil far the Ordinary Ranae." 

that you will not cut yourself on it. 
Now have a gridiron of wooden slats 
or wires fitted into the bottom in the 
inside to keep the jars off the bot- 
tom on the principle of the double 
boiler. The result is a utensil of the 
right size for use on an ordinary 
range or on two burners of a gas or 
alcohol stove, and of convenient depth 
for sterilizing fruit jars as well* as 
canning the fruit. 

Or nse an ordinary wash boiler 
fitted with a suitable false bottom. 
This has the same advantages, except 
that it is less convenient to reach into 




"A Large Porcelain Kettle." 

porcelain skimmer and ladle and a 
long-handled stirring spoon of wood 
are also necessary. Use a silver knife 
to pare the fruit rather than a steel 
knife, as the latter tends to give fruit 
a dark color. 

A pair of scales and suitable meas- 
uring cup should always be at hand 
in the kitchen. The old-fashioned 
Mason fruit jar is still in use, but the 
so-called lightning jar is preferable. 
Have on hand a sufficient quantity of 
new rubber rings. Never attempt to 
use old rings, as rubber decays very 
rapidly, and the old ring is almost 
certain to admit the air, causing the 
fruit to spoil before it is used. Old 
rings also harbor bacteria that cause 
fermentation. With clean fruit jars 
and new rubber rings, the battle is 
already half over. 

Alcohol Stove. — A proper stove 
is a very important consideration. 
Fruit is ordinarily ready for canning 
in sultry weather, and the heat of a 
cook stove or range is so unbearable 
that the process rarely receives the 
quality of skill and the degree of at- 
tention that the best results demand. 
A tired and overheated housekeeper 
is in no mood to closely observe the 
delicate points that contribute to the 
perfection of a. high grade product. 
Housekeepers fortunate enough to 
enjoy the use of gas, will need no 
suggestion to use a gas range for 
canning fruit, and at a time when the 
oven burners are not lighted. But 
where there is no available supply of 
gas a two-burner stove consiuning 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 



551 



denatured alcohol is especially rec- 
ommended for this purpose. This is 
self-contained and portable, so that 
the whole apparatus for canning 
fruit can be moved into a large, cool 
room, into an outhouse, or if desired 
in still, clear, or sultry weather, out 
of doors on the veranda, or in the 
shade of a tree on the lawn. At all 
events, an effort should be made to 
" keep cool " in both senses, if one is 
ambitious to obtain the best possible 
results. 

Materials for Canning and Pre- 
serving. — The materials used for 
canning and preserving should inva- 
riably be of the finest quality. Only 
the best grade of white granulated 
sugar should be used. And this 
should be clarified as described under 
making candy. Fresh, ripe fruit of 
the best quality should be selected 
and carefully picked over. All 
bruised, specked, or wormeaten speci- 
mens should be discarded. Small 
fruits, as raspberries and strawber- 
ries, should be canned if possible the 
morning they are picked. Great care 
should be taken in handling fruit to 
avoid bruising it. A silver paring 
knife should be used as an iron or 
steel knife tends to darken the fruit. 
And the fruit when pared should be 
instantly dropped into a vessel of 
clear cold water, care being taken 
that they are not bruised in falling. 
This prevents the fruit from "rust- 
ing" or turning dark by exposure to 
the air. All hard portions should be 
removed as they resist the effects of 
heat. And all "specks" or decayed 
portions since they injure the flavor 
and color. 

The best quality of canned fruit is 
obtained by heating fruit in the jars 
as hereafter described. This method 
avoids bruising the fruit by stirring, 
lifting, or pouring it from one vessel 
to another. Particular attention and 
care when preparing fruit will be 
amply repaid in the improved qual- 
ity of the product. If fruit is pared, 
the work should be done thoroughly 
and no particles of skin allowed to 
remain. If the cores, pits, or stones 



are removed at all, the work should 
be done in a painstaking manner. 
Especially if the goods are offered 
for sale, a small fraction of addi- 
tional labor at the start will add 
largely to the price and salability of 
the product. For similar reasons 
only the best quality of spices, 
brandy, or other condiments should 
be used. 

PEOCESS OF CANNIIfG AND 
FBESEBVING 

Nature of the Process. — Canning 
or preserving fruit is a process of 
killing, by means of heat, the germs 
that cause fruit to decay and pre- 
venting the contact of other germs by 
covering the fruit with boUing sirup 
and sealing it hermetically so as to 
exclude the air. The reason that 
boiling is necessary, is that the germs 
of decay are already present in the 
substance of the fruit itself. Hence 
they must be boiled until the heat has 
penetrated every part and effectually 
destroyed the germs. And the reason 
that air must be excluded is that the 
microscopic germs that cause putre- 
faction float in the air in very large 
numbers. Hence if a bubble of air 
remains among the fruit, or if air is 
admitted through a crevice as fine as 
a needle point in the rubber ring or 
metal top of the jar, putrefaction 
wiU certainly result. 

Other substances would exclude the 
air as well as sugar sirup, which is 
chosen mainly because it makes the 
fruit more palatable and nutritious. 
Hence the amount of sugar to be 
added to a given quantity of fruit is 
a matter of individual preference. 
The old-time rule for " preserves " 
was pound for pound, and a number 
of standard old-fashioned recipes are 
given. But this is by no means 
necessarily an invariable rule, and the 
present tendency is in favor of " can- 
ning" fruit. The pound-for-pound 
preserves are regarded by many as 
unnecessarily sweet and expensive. A 
much thinner sirup is now commonly 
used in canning and, provided proper 



552 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



precautions are taken, preserves the 
fruit equally well. 

To sum up, the fruit must be thor- 
oughly boiled through and through. 
The jars must be filled to overflow- 
ing with boiling hot sirup so that all 
bubbles of air will be excluded. And 
they must be instantly sealed, else 
the sirup will cool slightly and leave 
a space filled with bacteria-laden air 
between the top of the preserves and 
the jar cover. The jar must be pro- 
vided with a tight ring of new rubber 
or other substance that will absolutely 
exclude the air or the bacteria that it 
contains. Such substances as blot- 
ting paper and cotton batting are 
sometimes used for the reason that 
they have the property of screening 
or filtering the air so as to prevent 
bacteria from passing through. 

Methods of Canning and Freserv- 
ing. — ^There are two different ways 
accordingly of canning or preserving 
fruit, either of which will give satis- 
factory results, boUing the fruit in 
the jars or cans, or boiling it in a 
preserving kettle. Or, more properly 
speaking, the tendency now is to 
speak of " canning " as one process 
and " preserving " as another. 

The old-time method of " preserv- 
ing" consisted in boiling the fruit in 
a suitable preserving kettle, in sugar 
sirup, lifting the fruit from the sirup 
when sufficiently boiled, packing it 
into jars or cans and pouring the 
boiling sirup over it. This method is 
still preferred by many. 

The modern method of " canning " 
consists in packing the fruit in the 
cans or jars without sugar, or with 
sugar sprinkled between the different 
layers at the rate of about one table- 
spoonful to each pound of fruit, and 
placing the jars on the stove in a. 
suitable receptacle surrounded by 
water, bringing the whole to a boil 
and finally filling the cans with boil- 
ing sugar sirup and sealing them. 

Canning is somewhat slower unless 
a larger receptacle is provided in 
which to place a considerable number 
of fruit jars while boiling. But the 
process is easier and is likely to give 



a more satisfactory result. All bub- 
bles of air are driven out of the fruit 
while boiling. And the jar itself is 
uniformly heated, so that when boil- 
ing sirup is added to fill it to the 
brim, it does not shrink by cooling 
in the moment of time required to 
clap on the cover and seal. Then, 
too, the fruit is undisturbed, and its 
shape, color, and texture is not in- 
j ured. 

Preserving Day. — ^Many housekeep- 
ers prefer, when putting up fruits 
for home use, to preserve a jar or 
two each day, selecting the finest 
fruits as they ripen. Thus the labor 
is distributed over the season and as- 
sociated with other cooking from day 
to day so as to be hardly realized. 
But it is of some advantage, when a 
considerable quantity of fruit is to 
be preserved, to get everything in 
readiness at one time and make a 
day of it. 

To Test Fruit Jars. — Several jars 
of fruit may be saved in the course 
of a. season by testing the jars before 




Testing the Jars before Using." 



using. To this end, iill them with 
warm water, put on the new rubber 
rings that are to be used, seal them 
and stand them upside down on a 
large sheet of blotting paper. Or 
butcher's brown paper, or an ordi- 
nary folded newspaper, will answer. 
If there is the slightest leak, the water 
will trickle out and be seen on the 
absorbent paper. Thus, defective 
rubber rings, or uneven, nicked, or 
cracked jar tops can be discarded 
and assurance can be had that no 
valuable material and labor will be 
wasted. Similarly it is a good plan 
to turn the filled jars of fruit upside 
down on absorbent paper and let 
them stand overnight before storing 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 



553 



tiiem away. Thus, if by chance a de- 
fective ring or jar has been used it 
will be detected and the contents can 
be transferred to another jar. 

To Sterilize Fruit Jars. — The first 
step is to place in the special boiler 
above mentioned, or in a preserving 
kettle, the fruit jars that are to be 
used with about one tablespoonful 
of borax to twelve quarts of cold 
water and bring them to a boil over a 
Slow fire. The tops and rubber rings 
should be put in place and boiled 
with the jars themselves, as they are 
Unfit for use if they wUl not stand 
this process. Jars having glass tops 
should invariably be given the pref- 
erence. This will effectually kill all 
germs, free the jars from dust and 
dirt, and also toughen them so that 
if properly handled they will not 
crack in tiie process of boiling the 
fruit or sirup. After they have boiled 
fifteen minutes or so, pour off the 
borax water and pour over them hot 
water to rinse them. Care must of 
course be taken not to pour cold 
water over them, or expose them to 
a draught of cold air while hot, or 
otherwise they will be cracked and 
broken. 

Canning Fruit. — After the jars 
have been thus rinsed and sterilized, 
replace them on the stove in the 
above-mentioned boiler or other suit- 
able receptacle, surround them with 
hot water, and pack in the fruit, 
either without sugar, or with sugar 
sprinkled among the layers of fruit 
at the rate of one tablespoonful to a 
pound of fruit up to a teacupful to 
each can, more or less, as desired. 
Boil until the fruit is soft enough so 
that a straw can be run through it. 
The time required will vary accord- 
ing to the fruit, from a few minutes 
in the case of small fruits, as rasp- 
berries, strawberries and others, to 
an hour or more in the case of hard 
pears, quinces, and the like. But ob- 
serve that the latter cannot be cooked 
properly in the cans. They must be 
done up in the preserving kettle in 
the old-fashioned way. And there is 
the less objection as their firmer tex- 



ture protects them from being in- 
jured by handling. 

Berries and small fruits of soft and 
delicate texture, undoubtedly present 
a better appearance and have a finer 
flavor and color if cooked in the can. 
These include cherries, strawberries, 
raspberries, huckleberries or blueber- 
ries, ripe peaches, summer pears, and 
ripe plums. 

Some fruits cooked in the can with 
sugar, shrink and leave the can only 
partly full. Do not attempt to crowd 
the cans when first filled as this will 
crush the fruit and injure its appear- 
ance, but remove one can and gently 
pour its contents into the tops of 
the others until aU are fuU. Finally, 
when sufficiently boiled, remove the 
jars one by one, wrapping a towel 
about each; pour boiling sirup on 
top until it runs over and instantly 
seal before the contents cool, and air 
is admitted. Place the jars in a, 
warm place and out of a draught, as 
otherwise they may crack in the proc- 
ess of cooling. 

Sirup for Canning and Preserving. 
— The strength of the sirup to be 
used in filling jars after the fruit has 
been cooked in them is a matter of 
individual preference. It also de- 
pends upon the amount of sugar, if 
any, that has been sprinkled in the 
fruit while cooking. 

The old time pound-for-pound rule 
called for i a pint of water, more or 
less, for each pound of sugar and 
poimd of fruit, according to the 
amount of juice in the fruit. But a 
larger amount of water is more com- 
monly used at present. To prepare 
this sirup, place the sugar in a small 
preserving kettle, pour the required 
amount of cold water over it and stir 
until the sugar is fully dissolved be- 
fore placing on the fire. The sirup 
will be clarified and improved by the 
addition of a little gum arable or the 
white of egg. The scum, as fast as 
it rises, may then be removed with 
a skimmer, taking all impurities with 
it. This sirup may be poured over 
the fruit after it has been cooked in 
tlie caq. 



554 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or according to the earlier method, 
the fruit may be dropped Into the 
clarified sirup while at a boiling 
polnii cooked until it is tender, re- 
moved with a skimmer, packed in the 
jars and the boUing sirup added 
until they are filled to overflowing. 
This last method is still in general 
use and is contemplated in most of 
the following recipes. 

Canning Berries. — Strawberries, 
blackberries, and red and black rasp- 
berries may be put up in their own 
juices. When picking over the ber- 
ries, lay aside only the finest speci- 
mens to be canned whole, mash up 
the small and less perfect berries, 
add just enough water to prevent 
their burning and boU. Strain out 
the juice, add to it the required 
quantity of sugar sirup, and pour it 
boiling hot over the fruit to fill the 
cans. Using only the most perfect 
berries of nearly uniform size gives 
the fruit a iine appearance and the 
addition of the juice of the less per- 
fect specimens improves the quality 
100 per cent. 

FBESEBVES AND FBESEBVIITG 

Preserving Fruit. — ^The process of 
preserving is a very simple one, al- 
though it takes a large amount of 
time and great care. However, any 
housekeeper can accomplish it. The 
principal secret of success is that the 
fruit should be put up and sealed 
while hot and the jars filled to the 
brim. It is usually the custom to 
place the fruit in the kettle, a layer 
of fruit and a layer of sugar, poimd 
for pound or measure for measure 
and to let the whole come to a boU at 
once. 

Or place the fruit in a vessel with- 
out the sugar. Put just enough wa- 
ter over it to keep it from scorching, 
and allow it to boU until the scum 
rises. Carefully skim away the scum 
while it continues to rise before add- 
ing the sugar. Many seem to think 
that the scum rises entirely from the 
sugar, but the experience of those 
who have used the above-mentioned 



method is that an equal amount of 
scum comes from the boiling fruit. 

Or weigh the sugar and the fruit, 
pound for pound, then place the su- 
gar in the kettle without the fruit. 
Pilt in just enough water to dissolve 
the sugar and stir until it is dis- 
solved. Now place on the fire and 
let come to a boU. Continue to sim- 
mer for half an hour or so before dip- 
ping in the fruit, being careful to 
skim away the scum as it rises. Then 
place the fruit in the boiling Uquid 
and let it continue to simmer on the 
back of the stove until the fruit be- 
comes thoroughly impregnated with 
the boiling sirup. 

When about half done lift the fruit 
from the boiling sirup, place it in 
large porcelain or other vessels, being 
careful not to allow any sirup to 
come with it, and place it in the sun 
for an hour or more to bleach. After 
this, again drop the fruit into the 
sirup and let it boU until tender 
enough to allow a straw to run 
through it. 

When the fruit is thoroughly done, 
if the sirup is not as thick as desired, 
it may continuously simmer until the 
desired thickness is reached. Then 
place the fruit in glass jars that have 
been previously heated and sterilized 
by boiling in water containing a lit- 
tle borax and rinsing in hot water. 
After filling the jar with fruit as full 
as you conveniently can, pour in the 
boiling sirup until it fills up all the 
crevices between the fruit, excluding 
all the air possible. While perform- 
ing this process, place the jar in a 
pan filled with hot water. This will 
prevent cracking the jar. 

OLD-FASHIOITED BEGIFES 

Apple Preserves. — Pippins are con- 
sidered among the best apples for 
preserves. They may be cut in quar- 
ters. Weigh, and to each pound al- 
low a pound of granulated sugar and 
a half pint of boiling water. Place 
the sugar and water upon the stove 
and let it come to a boil. Continue 
to boil vigorously for about twenty 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 



555 



to thirty minutes. Place the apples 
in the boiling sirup and allow them 
to simmer until about half done. 
Then grate the rind of 1 and the 
juice of 2 lemons into this, and allow 
the whole to cook slowly untU it is 
possible to run a straw through each 
of the quarters. 

When done, place in jars as before 
mentioned. Some people preserve ap- 
ples in brass or copper kettles. Oth- 
ers prefer bright new tins. But 
porcelain or graniteware are pref- 
erable to either. Never, in any case, 
use an old half-worn tin, as both the 
sirup and preserves will have a much 
clearer appearance if cooked in new 
tin or porcelain. 

Crab Apples. — No fruit is more 
adaptable to preserves and jellies 
than the crab apple. Each housewife 
has her own way of treating these 
favorite apples. The following are 
two which have proved very success- 
ful: First prepare the fruit by cut- 
ting out all decayed portions. Wash 
clean and place in a kettle with suf- 
ficient water to entirely cover the 
fruit. The kettle should have a tight- 
fitting lid. Boil the fruit over a 
moderate fire until it is soft enough 
to pierce with a straw. Then drain 
off the water through a coarse cloth 
or jelly bag. Set this water aside 
for jelly. When the apples have thus 
boiled they will have burst their 
skins, which are then easily removed. 
The cores may be taken out by bor- 
ing them through from the blossom 
end with a goose quiU or stick of 
equal thickness, observing care to press 
the stem end against the fingers in 
order not to break the apple. After 
this process the fruit is ready to pre- 
serve. 

Observe the following proportions: 
4 pounds of fruit, 3 pounds of sugar, 
1 pint of water. Put the sugar into 
the preserving kettle, allow it to set 
over the fire until it boils, then drop 
in the fruit. BoU until clear and 
place in a jar. If there is more 
sirup than will be needed, let it con- 
tinue to boil down to the desired 
quantity. Then, while het, pour over 



the fruit. Cover with a cloth just 
large enough to cover the top of the 
jar and tie down. Before placing 
the cloth over the top of the jar dip 
the tops of the jars into bottle wax 
which may be made after the follow- 
ing proportions: 2 parts of bees- 
wax to 1 part of rosin. Add enough 
tallow or lard to keep it from crack- 
ing. Then, while the whole is warm, 
draw the cloth tightly over the top 
of the jar and tie down. 

Or cover the bottom of the preserv- 
ing kettle with grape leaves, and put 
in the apples with a very little water. 
Do not allow them to boil, but let 
them simmer gently until they are 
yellow. Lift out of the vessel an'd 
spread them on a large dish to cool, 
after which pare and core. Then put 
them back into the kettle with fresh 
vine leaves, under and over the fruit, 
and with a very little water. Place 
them over the fire until they are 
green, being careful not to let them 
boU. After this process remove 
them, weigh, and allow a pound of 
loaf sugar to a pound of crab apples, 
with just enough water to dissolve 
the sugar. When melted put the 
kettle on the fire, boil and skim the 
sirup. Then put in the fruit and boil 
until the apples are quite clear and 
soft. Place them in jars, and pour 
the warm liquor over them. After 
they are thoroughly cooled tie up 
with brandied paper. This is a fa- 
vorite Southern recipe for crab-apple 
preserves. 

Apricot Preserves. — Pare the fruit 
very thin and stone it. Use sugar, 
poimd for pound, with the fruit. 
Place in a porcelain, graniteware, or 
earthenware vessel a layer of fruit to 
a layer of sugar, and let stand for a 
day. Next day boil very gently until 
they are clear. Remove them into a 
bowl and pour the liquor over them. 
The following day pour the liquor 
into a quart of codlin liquor. This 
is made by boiling and straining a 
pound of fine sugar with just enough 
water to make a sirup. Let the whole 
boil quickly until it will jelly. Put 
the fruit into it and bring to a boil. 



556 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



being careful to remove all the scum. 
Then put up in small jars. 

To Preserve Whole Apricots. — 
Weigh equal quantities of fine apri- 
cots and loaf sugar. Make a small 
opening at the stem of the apricot and 
push out the stones, place the apricots 
on a flat dish and scatter some sugar 
over them. Boil the remainder of the 
sugar to a sirup, after which put in 
the apricots and let them boil for 
three minutes. Remove the pan and 
cover closely. After letting the apri- 
cots stand for two hours return them 
to the fire. Let them come to a boil 
for three minutes. Take off the pan, 
cover it and let the fruit again stand 
for two hours. Put it on the fire 
again and let it boil slowly for fifteen 
minutes. Blanch the kernels in a 
colander with boiling water and 
add them. Remove the scum before 
taking from the fire. Let the fruit 
stand for ten minutes before can- 
ning it. 

To Preserve Ripe Peaches. — ^Many 
prefer October peaches to any other 
for preserving because they are then 
older and larger. Put them into a 
preserving pan full of cold water 
with a slice or two of lemon. Set 
them on a slow fire. Have ready a 
sieve and a napkin. Some will be 
ready sooner than others. When they 
begin to soften they are done enough. 
Then drain them on the sieve, cover 
with the napkin, let them stand until 
cold, and put into glasses. Pound 
sugar candy very fine in a mortar, 
dissolve it in brandy, fill up the 
glasses with this mixture, cover with 
brandied papers and seal. 

Peach Preserves. — Select nice white 
English peaches. Peel very thin, and 
cut into quarters. Use no bruised 
peaches, as they will cause the pre- 
serves to darken. Weigh the fruit 
and sugar pound for pound. Place 
the sugar in a brass kettle with just 
enough water to dissolve it. Let it 
slowly come to a boil, stirring almost 
constantly to prevent the mixture 
from scorching. Let the sirup then 
continue to boU until it slightly thick- 
ens. Drop the fruit into the boiling 



sirup, place the kettle on the back of 
the stove and let it simmer for three 
hours. Remove the fruit and place 
it upon large, flat dishes and set 
where the sun is hot to bleach. 

After the fruit has remained in 
the sun for about one hour again 
drop it in the sirup (which should 
be kept at a boil) and allow it 
to remain for another hour, or until 
it can be pierced with a straw. 
Again remove the fruit to the flat 
dishes and place in the sun. Add to 
the boiling sirup the juice of one 
lemon, a bit of mace, and about half 
a dozen rose-geranium leaves. Let it 
continue to boil until it becomes quite 
thick, but not thick enough to jelly. 
The rose-geranium leaves will not 
only give to the preserves a pecu- 
liarly delicate flavor, but also a de- 
lightful fragrance. 

When the sirup has thickened place 
the fruit in glass jars as fuU as they 
will hold. Pour the sirup over it 
while hot, being careful that every 
air bubble is expelled. Drop a gera- 
nium leaf and slice of lemon into 
each jar, and let cool. Then cover 
with brandied papers and seal. 

Cherry Preserves. — The best cherry 
preserves are made of sour cherries. 
The early Richmond is a good variety. 
First seed very carefully. Measure 
the fruit and sugar in equal quanti- 
ties, sprinkle half the sugar over the 
fruit, let stand about an hour, pour 
into a preserving kettle, and boil 
slowly ten minutes. Many prefer a 
brass kettle for this purpose. But 
porcelain or graniteware is superior. 
Remove the fruit, add balance of 
sugar, boU, skim, and pour over the 
cherries. Let them stand untU next 
day, drain off the sirup, boil, skim, if 
necessary, and add the cherries. Let 
them boil for twenty minutes and 
seal in small jars. 

Or use for every pound of cherries 
about I of a pound of fine loaf sugar. 
Carefully stone the cherries and 
sprinkle them with sugar. Boil them 
fast with the remainder of the sugar 
until the fruit is clear and the sirup 
thick. Place in the cans ,while hot. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 



557 



Watermelon Preserves. — Pafe off 
the dark green rind and scrape the 
soft pulp from the inside of the 
melon. Cut in squares about 3 inches 
long and li inches wide. Soak in 
brine OTernight. Then rinse in clear 
water, and soak until the next morn- 
ing in alum water. Again rinse and 
soak until the next morning in clear 
water. Weigh the melon and sugar 
pound for pound. Place the sugar 
with just enough water to dissolve it 
in a clean brass or porcelain kettle, 
and stir until it dissolves before plac- 
ing on the flre. Then boU hard for 
fifteen minutes. Drop in the melon 
and boil for half an hour. Place the 
vessel on the back of the stove and 
boil slowly for three hours. Lift the 
squares on large dishes and place in 
the hot sunshine to bleach for half an 
hour. Again drop in the sirup and 
boil for half an hour and again place 
in the sunshine. Tliis repeated plac- 
ing in the sun keeps the melon 
bleached perfectly white. Again drop 
the melon in the boiling sirup to 
which has been added whole spiced 
cloves and the juice of a lemon. Boil 
until the pieces of melon become 
transparent, but not until they be- 
come soft. Carefully lift again on 
the dishes, place in the sunshine, and 
while the sirup continues to boil add 
more lemon juice and slice one whole 
lemon into the sirup. Boil for ten 
minutes. 

Do not under any circumstances 
allow the sirup to become dark. This 
will not happen if perfectly pure 
white sugar is used, and not too much 
spice. When the slices of lemon have 
become heated remove from the stove. 
FiU the jars with the preserves, pour 
the sirup over and seal whUe per- 
fectly hot. There is nothing which 
makes a more delicate preserve than 
watermelon treated after this fash- 
ion. Many allow the pieces of fruit 
to become dark and soft, but if 
treated in this manner they wiU be 
perfectly crisp and indeed almost 
like crystallized fruit. This is an old 
and favorite recipe of our grand- 
mothers. 



To Preserve Citron. — Pare and cut 
open the citron, clean all out except 
the rind. Boil it until soft. To every 
pound of citron add a. pound of 
sugar and one lemon to each pound. 
Put the sugar and lemon together 
and boil until it becomes a sirup, 
skimming as the scum rises. Then 
put the sirup and citron together and 
boil one hour. 

Preserved Cranberries. — To each 
pound of cranberries allow 1 pound 
of loaf sugar dissolved in a very little 
water, about i a pint to a poimd. 
Place on the fire in a preserving ket- 
tle. BoU about ten minutes, skim- 
ming well. Then put in the cranber- 
ries and boil slowly until quite soft, 
when they will be a clear red color. 
Place them in warm jars or glasses 
and when they have cooled tie up 
with brandied paper. These may be 
opened for use and tied up again. 
But this must be done quickly as ex- 
posure to the air spoils them. 

To Preserve Cucumbers. — The cu- 
cumbers should be firm and ripe, 
taken as soon as they have turned 
yellow. Pare them, take out the 
seeds, cut in pieces 2 or 3 inches in 
length, and about 2 inches in width. 
Let them lie in salt water for eight 
hours, then prepare sirup of one gal- 
lon of cider vinegar, S pounds of 
sugar, 1 ounce of mixed spices (not 
ground). After boiling twenty min- 
utes, strain. Dry the cucumber with 
a soft cloth, drop into the sirup and 
.boU untU soft and transparent. Lift 
the pieces out carefully and drain on 
a colander. Boil the sirup to the 
consistency of molasses. Pour over 
the cucumber and keep it in a cool 
place. 

To Preserve Currants. — The cur- 
rants should be gathered upon a dry 
day. To every pound of currants al- 
low for a pint of red currant juice 
and IJ pounds of finely powdered 
loaf sugar. Clip off the heads and 
stalks with scissors. Put the juice, 
currants and sugar into a preserving 
pan, stirring frequently until it boils. 
Remove the fruit carefully from the 
sides of the pan, and skim as the 



558 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



scum rises. Boil for ten or fifteen 
minutes. This makes an excellent 
preserve to eat with cream. 

To Preserve Green Figs. — Gather 
the figs when they have got their 
growth and when they have just be- 
gun to turn ripe but are not fully 
ripened. Put them in a sieve and 
pour boiling water over them. Let 
them stand about an hour. Weigh 
the sugar, allowing pound for pound. 
Place the sugar dissolved in a little 
water in a kettle, and after it comes 
to a boil drop in the figs. When they 
are almost done put them into dishes 
in the smi to bleach. Boil the sirup 
down, put the figs back, and let them 
boil imtil they are done, being care- 
ful that they are thoroughly cooked. 
Half-done fig preserves have a rank, 
green taste. 

To Preserve Ginger. — There is no 
better confection, perhaps, if prop- 
erly made than preserved ginger. 
The young roots should be scalded 
untU they become tender. Then peel 
them in cold water, changing the 
water frequently. Make a thin sirup, 
pour over the ginger roots, and let 
them stand for five days. Then re- 
move them to the jars and pour over 
the ginger a rich sirup highly spiced. 
The sirup should be hot when it is 
poured over the ginger. 

To Preserve Gooseberries. — Take 
10 pounds of rough red gooseberries. 
Prick each berry with a needle. Place 
in a preserving pan with 8 pounds 
of loaf sugar. Boil three quarters of 
an hour, skimming well. Place in 
jars and tie down. 

To Preserve Green Grapes. — The 
grapes must not be too old. The best 
time to gather them is just before the 
seed begins to harden. Pick them 
over and free them from stems. Put 
into .bottles. Strong wine or cham- 
pagne bottles are best. FiU with 
fresh, clear water. Place in a large 
kettle partially filled with cold water. 
Raise the temperature nearly to the 
boiling point. The water in the bot- 
tles expands with the heat, which 
drives part of it out. When suflS- 
ciently heated they are taken off, 



enough water poured out of each 
bottle to allow a well-fitting cork to 
be pressed in tightly. After being 
corked they are sealed with sealing 
wax or common beeswax. As the 
bottles cool a partial vacuum is left 
in each. 

Grapes preserved after this manner 
will keep for years in localities where 
canned fruit often spoils during the 
heat of summer. They can at any 
time be opened and prepared for the 
table like fresh grapes with no differ- 
ence in the taste. The water in 
which they were preserved, makes a 
delightful cooling drink, as it con- 
tains a large percentage of tartaric 
acid, which gives it a pleasant acidity. 

To Preserve Lemon Peel. — Make a 
thick sirup of white sugar, chop the 
lemon peel fine, and boil in the sirup 
ten minutes. Put in glass tumblers 
and paste paper over them. A tea- 
spoonful of this may be used to im- 
prove a loaf cake or a dish of sauce. 

Ginger Pears. — Peel ripe pears, re- 
move the cores, and cut into thin 
slices. To 4 pounds of pears allow 
the juice of 2 large lemons, 3 J pounds 
of sugar, and a J pound of ginger 
root scraped and cut into thin slices. 
To this add about a gill of water. 
Mix all together, except the lemon 
juice and the fruit. Place over the 
fire and heat until the sugar is dis- 
solved. Then drop in the pears, add 
the lemon juice, and boil slowly for 
one hour. Can while hot. 

Pears Preserved in Molasses. — ^Use 
hard pears. Cut the blossom ends, 
leaving on the stem. Peel, drop in 
cold water and put on the fire. Heat 
gradually and stew until tender. Re- 
move the pears from the liquid and 
place in a dish where they can be 
kept warm at the side of the range. 
To each pound of the liquid in which 
the fruit was cooked add a pint of 
molasses. Return to the fire, add a 
little ginger, and boil for half an 
hour. Take off the scum as it rises. 
Again place the pears in the liquid 
and cook for twenty minutes. They 
should be packed very tightly in jars 
and sealed while hot. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 



559 



To Preserve Pineapples. — Slice the 
pineapples thin, about i an inch in 
thickness. Put them into a jar. Make 
a sirup, using i a pound of sugar 
to a pint of water. Simmer on the 
back of the stove until dissolved. 
After standing for a day pour it over 
the fruit. Let it stand for one hour, 
then simmer it again, having added a 
little more sugar. Repeat the proc- 
ess three or ■ four times. The last 
time pour the boiling sirup over the 
fruit. 

Or pare and cut the fruit in thin 
slices, weigh the slices, and to each 
pound allow a pound of loaf sugar. 
Dissolve the sugar, stir it and set it 
over the fire in a preserving kettle. 
Boil ten minutes and skim well. 
Then put in the pineapple slices and 
boU them untU they are clear and 
soft, being careful that they do not 
break. About half an hour is the 
usual time. Let them cool in a large 
dish before putting them into the 
jars, being careful that you do not 
break them while handling. Pour 
the boiling sirup over them and cover 
vidth brandied paper. 

UISCELLAIISOrS BUIES ASH 

sn&GESTioirs 

Bules for Preserving Pruit. — Cer- 
tain rules are necessary to be observed 
in every branch of confectionery. 
Thus, in making sirups, the sugar 
should always be well dissolved before 
it is placed on the fire. If this is not 
done the scran will not rise well, nor 
the fruit retain its fine color. When 
stone fruit is preserved, it is well 
to cover with rendered mutton suet 
to exclude the air. Any air admitted 
is sure to ruin the fruit. It will cause 
putrefaction at once. 

All wet sweetmeats must be kept 
dry and cool to preserve them from 
moldiness and damp. One of the best 
hints to observe is to dip a piece of 
tissue paper in brandy, lay it close 
to the sweetmeats and cover tightly 
with paper. Thus they will keep for 
any length of time. This precaution 
is found advisable not only in sweet- 



meats, but in preserves and jellies of 
every kind. 

To Prevent Hold. — Often when 
ready to put away preserves, jars 
will be lacking, or a Mason jar wiU 
be without a top. Even if preserves 
are put up in stone jars, there must 
be some way to cover them. In such 
case, cover the preserves with cotton 
batting, which is impervious to all 
life germs. There is nothing better. 
Draw tightly across a full jar of 
preserved fruit and tie with a stout 
cord. Then paste a sheet of note 
paper around the jar over the string. 
This will prevent mold and fermen- 
tation as perfectly as if the jar was 
hermetically sealed. Cotton batting 
is thus used by many old and expe- 
rienced preserve-makers. 

Canker in Preserves. — In olden 
times every housekeeper was careful 
to have a brass kettle devoted en- 
tirely to preserve-making. Many still 
prefer such a kettle to anything else. 
But there is danger in brass kettles. 
A busy housekeeper is often called 
away from the kitchen and may of 
necessity remain away a considerable 
time, while the preserves stand in 
the kettle. Thus canker, from the 
brass, or acetate of copper an active 
poison, may get into the preserves. 
Never allow preserves to stand or 
cool in a brass kettle, but turn them 
out instantly upon removing from the 
stove. 

How to Detect Brass Canker. — To 
detect canker in preserves that have 
stood too long in a brass kettle, put 
a teaspoonful of the preserves in a 
cup, over which pour 30 drops of 
vinegar. Stir well with a bright, 
clean knitting or darning needle. If 
there is any canker present, the nee- 
dle where it has touched the pre- 
serves, will become red. If this color 
does not show at once, let the needle 
stand in the preserves six or eight 
hours. If, at the end of that time it is 
not red, the preserves are wholesome. 

Homemade Fruit Jars. — Select from 
your old bottles the largest ones. 
Wash them in coal ashes and soapy 
water and dry them thoroughly. Dip 



560 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



in coal oil a piece of tarred rope or 
other large soft cord and tie it about 
the bottle an inch or so below the 
neck. Malce a small knot and cut the 
ends close to the knot. Wipe off 
carefully all the oil that you may 
have spilled upon the bottle. Touch 
a lighted match to the string and the 
top of the bottle will be removed at 
once. The break will occur where the 
string is placed, therefore take care 
in deciding upon a spot which will 
make the bottle sufficiently wide at 
the top. Thtis can be made, without 
cost, excellent pint tumblers for jelly 
and preserves. Use brandied papers 
or cotton batting as before men- 
tioned for the covers. 

Blotting-Pad Rings. — As a substi- 
tute for rubber rings, cut out of 
fresh (uean blotting pads rings to fit 
fruit jars, putting two rings on each. 
Fruit win keep as well and as long 
packed with these improvised rings 
as with the nicest new rubber ones. 
They can be used even with strawber- 
ries, wWch are among the most diffi- 
cult fruits to preserve. 

Covering for Jars. — There is 
s waterproof paper on the market 



which is used for covering fruit jars. 
Or you can make your own water- 
proof paper by brushing over paper 
with linseed oU. Then suspend it 
over a line until dry. This is as good 
a waterproof paper as can be pur- 
chased. 

Use for Old Frait-Jar Kuhher 
Sings. — ^Discarded rubber rings for 
fruit jars may be again utilized 
by placing them in the usual way 
between cover and jar and filling 
around with bottle or sealing wax. 
The fruit will ke^p perfectly, as this 
substance makes an air-tight cover 
impervious to the germs of decay. 

Black Bottle Wax. — ^Melt together 
with gentle heat 6i ounces of black 
rosin, J an ounce of beeswax, IJ 
ounces of fine ivory black. 

Or 2 ounces of common rosin, 5 
ounces of tallow, 4 ounces of lamp- 
black. 

Bed Bottle Wax. — ^Melt together 1 
oimce of yellow wax, 3 ounces of ver- 
milion, 5 ounces of shellac, 16 ounces 
of rosin. 

Or 6i ounces of yellow rosin, J an 
ounce of beeswax, IJ ounces of Vene- 
tian red or red lead. 



CHAPTER XXII 

VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 

SPECIAL VINEGAES— PICBXES AND PICKLING— MIXED PICKLES- 
PICKLED VEGETABLES, NUTS, AND FRUITS 



All vinegar, of which there are 
several kinds, consists of a dUute so- 
lution of acetic acid in water with 
a small amount of sugar and other 
organic matter. Vinegar is the result 
of the action of the oxygen of the 
air, in the presence of a particular 
kind of yeast or ferment, upon a, so- 
lution of Eilcohol. The alcoholic liq- 
uors from which vinegar is made 
may be produced by the fermenta- 
tion of almost any vegetable or fruit 
juices. The principal kinds of vine- 
gar are, accordingly, wine vinegar, 
produced from grapes; malt vinegar, 
from barley; cider vinegar, from 
apples; sugar and molasses vinegar, 
from cane sugar products; corn vine- 
gar; beet vinegar; etc. The alcoholic 
fluid, or " was*," as it is called, should 
contain not over 4 per cent to 13 per 
cent of alcohol. And for the best re- 
sults the temperature should be from 
70 per cent to 85 per cent Fahrenheit. 
Plenty of air to introduce the oxygen 
required by the process must be sup- 
plied and mixed with the alcoholic 
solution. The changing of alcohol to 
acetic acid by the action of oxygen 
produces heat and increases the 
weight of the liquid. 

Commercial vinegar is made on the 
Continent of Europe principally from 
cheap grades of wine, in England 
from malt and sour beer, in the 
United States from cider and cheap 
grades of alcoholic liquors, as whisky 
and the like. 

Methods of Kaking Vinegar. — 
There are two principal ways of 
making vinegar — the slow and the 
quick process. In the former the al- 



coholic solution is placed in a barrel 
or vat containing a little old vinegar 
or mother, which supplies the neces- 
sary yeast, or in the case of wine 
vinegar, old wine lees, either exposed 
to the sun or placed in a warm room. 
Air is admitted through the bung of 
the casks or otherwise, and the liquid 
is allowed to stand until it turns to 
vinegar. This takes two weeks or 
more in summer, and a month or 
more in cold weather. The process is 
similar to that of making cheap vine- 
gar from molasses and yeast, or mak- 
ing ordinary cider vinegar. 

Or to make vinegar by the quick, 
or German process, prepare a special 
contrivance as follows: 

Supply a large vinegar cask with 
a false bottom about a foot from 
the true bottom perforated with a 
large number of J inch gimlet holes. 
If a fine quality of vinegar is desired, 
cover this with one or more thick- 
nesses of white flannel cloth, and an 
inch layer of clean white sand on top. 
Bore, around the outside of the bar- 
rel an inch below the false bottom, a 
row of i inch auger holes slanting 
downward from without 2 or 3 inches 
apart. These are necessary to admit 
the air. FiU the barrel from the false 
bottom to within 4 or 5 inches of the 
top with maple, beech, or basswood 
chips previously soaked for three or 
four days in first-class vinegar. ■ 

Now cut another cask of somewhat 
smaller size in halves. Bore the bot- 
tom of one half barrel full of gimlet 
holes the size of a goose quiU or 
about 4 inch in diameter. Cover this 
with cotton batting or yarn, and 



561 



562 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



place it on top of the barrel resting 
on cross slats or upon the chips. 

Insert a spigot into the cask below 
the false bottom, slanting downward 
to the bottom of the cask but having 




'Vinegar iy the Quick or German Process. 



its opening just below the level of 
the row of air holes, and place be- 
neath the spigot the other half barrel, 
protected by a wooden cover from 
dust and dirt. 

The alcoholic liquor poured into 
the upper half barrel causes the yarn 
or cotton in the bottom to swell and 
fiU the gimlet holes, whence the liquor 
drops throu^ upon the chips. The 
process of fermentation produces 
heat, which causes a current of air to 
rise through the openings for that 
purpose below the false bottom, and 
to meet the alcoholic liquor as it per- 
colates drop by drop through the 
chips. The air current escapes be- 
tween the bottom of the upper half 
barrel and the top edges of the large 
cask. Thus the action of the oxygen 
in the air in turning the alcohol into 
acetic acid is made very rapid. 



The vinegar, after passing through 
the sand and flannel strainer, and the 
false bottom, accumulates in the bot- 
tom of the barrel but cannot escape 
through the spigot until it reaches 
the level of its mouth, or a depth of 
8 or 10 inches. It is then first drawn 
from the bottom where its strength 
is greatest. And the strong vinegar 
thus accumulated assists in the proc- 
ess of fermentation. 

To use this apparatus, pour in 
about 4 gallons of alcoholic liquor or 
"wash" every hour with the addition 
of 1 quart to make up for the waste. 
And withdraw every hour about 4 
gallons of vinegar from the bottom. 
The iirst product must be ladled 
back into the upper half barrel, run 
through again and again, when it will 
be converted into vinegar in three or 
four days. It must then be poured 
into a clean tank or cask, and one or 
two quarts of molasses added to it 
each day, untU the molasses settles in 
a bed 3 or 4 inches thick. This im- 
proves the flavor of the vinegar and 
gives it a fine color. This process 
is the quickest and most satisfactory 
that has ever been devised. And as 
the apparatus is inexpensive, and the 
product is more salable than ordinary 
vinegar, there would seem to be no 
reason why it could not be utilized 
by grocers and other dealers in vine- 
gar, or by private families or indi- 
viduals either for domestic use or for 
sale. 

Water for Vinegar. — Pure soft or 
distilled water ought to be used for 
the manufacture of good vinegar, and 
if the water is not pure it should be 
purified by filtering through char- 
coal. 

Wash or Liquors for Vinegar. — 
The commonest alcoholic liquor used 
for commercial vinegar in this coun- 
try consists of about 3 gallons of 
corn whisky, 4 gallons of good com- 
mercial vinegar, and 33 gallons of 
pure water. 

Or SO gallons of 60 per cent whisky 
and 37 gallons of beer or maltwort. 

Or 3 gallons of brandy, 4 gallons 
of vinegar, and 13 gallons of water. 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



56a 



with the addition, to promote fermen- 
tation, of about 1 gallon of an infu- 
sion of equal parts bran and rye meal. 
Or use li pounds of sugar to each 
gallon of pure water. 

Or i gallon of water to 2 gallons 
of cider. Add to the above in all 
cases 2 quarts of yeast to every bar- 
rel of the liquor. 

Xo Ferment Vinegar. — The proc- 
ess of making vinegar requires the 
presence of the minute vegetable or- 
ganisms called yeast, and is greatly 
hastened by conditions favorable to 
their growth. This is the reason that 
vinegar is made more rapidly in hot 
than in cold weather, and that the 
temperature of 75° to 80° F. hastens 
the process. The germs of yeast are, 
of course, present in large numbers 
in the lees and mother of old vine- 
gar and also in the vinegar which 
is soaked into the fiber of the cask. 
Hence an old vinegar barrel, if 
sound, is preferable to a new one. 
The germs of yeast are also present 
in ordinary vinegar, and if 1 gallon 
of sound vinegar can be added to 
each 3 or 5 gallons of cider or other 
alcoholic liquor or "wash" from which 
vinegar is to be made, no other yeast 
will be necessary. 

Or good brewers' yeast may be 
added to the alcoholic liquor at the 
rate of about | of a pint to each 12 
gallons. 

Or homemade hop yeast at the rate 
of IJ pints to 12 gallons. The 
"wash" should be at a temperature 
of about 75° or 80° F. when the yeast 
is added, and should be kept at or 
near that temperature while the vine- 
gar is being made. Yeast must not 
be scalded as a temperature above 
140° F. kills it. When old vinegar 
barrels are employed, or ordinary 
vinegar is put into new casks to has- 
ten fermentation, care must be taken 
that the vinegar formerly made in 
the casks, or used for this purpose, 
is of the same kind and of at least 
equally good quality to the desired 
product. That is, if a fine quality of 
cider vinegar is desired, only casks 
that have been used in making pure 



cider vinegar, or the best grade of 
cider vinegar itself should be used in 
the process. 

Or boil until tender li pints of 
shelled corn to each gallon of the 
" wash " and add this in place of 
yeast to promote fermentation. When 
the vinegar is sour enough, strain it 
through cheese cloth to remove the 
corn and let stand another week to 
clarify. 

Money in Vinegar. — Grocers and 
other merchants who sell vinegar at 
retail should make their own vinegar. 
They can thus, by employing only the 
best materials, guarantee a pure ar- 
ticle. They can also materially in- 
crease their profits. In fact, any per- 
son living in the country or small 
town, can profitably manufacture 
vinegar for family use and also, if de- 
sired, by producing a pure and genu- 
ine article can build up a neighbor- 
hood trade. To do this it is only 
necessary to leaye samples, with price 
attached, at the neighboring houses 
and keep always on hand a sufficient 
quantity of first-class vinegar. The 
commercial article is so often adul- 
terated with injurious acids that most 
persons wiU prefer to buy homemade 
vinegar at the market rates or bet- 
ter and a satisfactory profit will be 
assured. 

Cheap Molasses Vinegar. — To make 
vinegar by the slow process, fill a 
large jug, keg, or cask with a mix- 
ture consisting of 1 quart of best 
New Orleans molasses, 1 pint of 
yeast to each 3 gallons of warm rain 
water. Tie a piece of cheese cloth 
over the bimg to keep out dust and 
insects, but to admit the air. Place 
the receptacle out of doors in the sun 
during hot weather. Or in cold 
weather let it stand near the kitchen 
stove. It will be converted into vine- 
gar in from three weeks to a month. 
When it gets low, draw off a supply 
for family use, leaving more or less 
old vinegar with the mother and lees 
in the bottom of the cask. Fill up 
with new liquid in the same propor- 
tions, and let stand until converted 
into vinegar as before. 



564 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Or dissolve J a pound of light- 
brown " A " or coffee sugar in 2 gal- 
Ions of soft warm water. Add 3 
pints of homemade hop yeast or IJ 
pints of good brewers' yeast to each 
12 gallons. Pour all into a suitable 
keg or cask. 

Or a firkin may be used if fitted 
with a tight cover having one or 
more auger holes to admit air through 
it. Fill the receptacle about two 
thirds full, or a little more, so as to 
expose as large a surface as possible 
to the air. Cover the openings with 
cheese cloth and let stand in a warm 
place. Where the conditions are fa- 
vorable it will be converted into vine- 
gar in about two weeks or a month. 

Or for a somewhat better quality, 
take S gallons of water to 1 gallon of 
molasses, and add a quart of yeast. 
The addition of a gallon of good vine- 
gar will hasten the process. Odds 
and ends of sirup, as rinsings from 
fruit jars, molasses cans, and the like, 
may be added to the liquor from time 
to time. 

Or for a cheaper quality, take 25 
gallons of warm rain water, 4 gallons 
of molasses, and 1 gallon of brewers' 
yeast. 

To Mannfactttre Vinegar for Sale. 
— Grocers and other merchants who 
sell vinegar at retail may keep them- 
selves supplied with vinegar in the 
following manner: 

Have on hand three or more bar- 
rels in multiples of three, and use 
them in rotation. If less than a bar- 
rel of vinegar is sold each week, three 
barrels will be sufficient, as the proc- 
ess will be completed in three weeks 
or less. Commence with a barrel of 
good commercial vinegar. Before it 
is quite empty draw off and pour into 
each of the other two barrels 2 or 3 
gallons of vinegar. Now fill up the 
vinegar barrel with a fresh liquor in 
the proportion of 1 gallon of mo- 
lasses to S gallons more or less of 
warm rain water according to the 
quality of vinegar desired, and about 
1 quart of yeast for each 12 gallons 
of the mixture. 

Fill up the other two barrels with 



the same liquor. The first or old 
vinegar barrel containing more or less 
lees and mother will turn to vinegar 
very quickly, and may be sold first, 
and refilled when it gets low. By thai 
time the second will be ready to use, 
or nearly so. After the three barrels 
are once started, if filled up when 
nearly emptied, they will furnish a 
constant supply. 

Or if upward of two barrels are 
sold each week, six casks may be kept 
going in the same manner. A good- 
sized bunghole should be kept open 
to admit the air, but they should have 
two or three thicknesses of cheese 
cloth tacked over them to keep out 
dust and insects. 

Or to manufacture vinegar on a 
large scale summer and winter aUke, 
it is necessary either to have a large 
cellar equipped with suitable vats or 
casks, or a building which is well 
ventilated, and can be warmed in win- 
ter by means of a furnace or other- 
wise. In addition to suitable arrange- 
ments for storing ordinary casks in 
tiers, and the necessary apparatus 
for leaching the wash through beech- 
wood shavings by the quick or Ger- 
man process, an important part of 
the equipment is one or more large 
ripening casks or vats capable of 
holding 500 to 1,000 gallons and up- 
ward. The cider or other "wash," 
after having been turned into vinegar 
by either the slow or quick process 
and run off into smaller casks, should 
be transferred at intervals to these 
large casks so that the output of the 
establishment will be of a uniform 
flavor. Care must, of course, be taken 
that the casks, vats, and other appa- 
ratus used to produce a particiiar 
kind or grade of vinegar should not 
be used for any other purpose, if the 
object is to build up a trade for a 
particular brand or quality. 

Malt Vinegar. — In the vicinity of 
breweries, where wort can be pro- 
cured at a reasonable price, malt 
vinegar can be made very cheaply. 
Add to each 25 gallons of wort 1 gal- 
lon of beer yeast. Ferment for about 
thirty-five or forty hours, and draw 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



565 



off the liquor into casks about two 
thirds full. Let them stand at a tem- 
perature of 70° to 75° F. Keep the 
bungs out to admit plenty of air. 

Sugar Vinegar. — To make sugar 
vinegar for domestic use, add i pint 
of feast to a solution of IJ poimds 
of sugar in 1 gallon of water. Let 
the mixture ferment for about three 
days in a large earthenware jar or 
other receptacle, placed where the 
temperature will be at least 80° F. 
Then draw off the clear liquor from 
the sediment into a clean cask and 
add 1 ounce of cream of tartar and 
1 ounce of bruised raisins. Let stand 
untU sufSciently sour, clarify, bottle 
and cork for use. 

Or boU any quantity of coarse 
brown sugar with filtered rain water 
at the rate of 2 pounds of sugar to 
the gallon and with a skimmer re- 
move the scum as fast as it appears. 
Now add a quart of cold water for 
every gallon of hot. Let cool, and 
add about a pint of yeast for each 6 
gallons of the liquor. Run into a 
cask. Cover the bunghole with wire 
gauze or several thicknesses of cheese 
cloth, and place it out in the sun. If 
this vinegar is made in the early 
spring and exposed to summer heat 
it will be ready for use by midsum- 
mer. In winter six months will be 
required. 

Cider Vinegar. — The best quality 
of vinegar is undoubtedly that made 
from cider, providing the apples used 
are sound, ripe, sweet fruit. As the 
best grades of cider vinegar bring a 
fancy price, it is advisable to separate 
ripe, sweet windfalls from small, un- 
ripe, or defective fruit, and use the 
best fruit for an A 1 grade of cider. 
The usual careless method of making 
cider is merely to fill a cask to its 
capacity with cider and let it stand 
four to six months to sour. But, with 
proper care and attention, a better 
grade of cider can be made in a much 
quicker time. The better way is to 
place the cider in a hogshead or 
large tank. Lay the ripening casks, 
with the bungholes open, on their 
sides, exposed to the heat of the sun 



or in a warm cellar, and fill them at 
first only about a quarter full of 
cider.. After about two weeks, add 
another quarter, making the barrel 
half full, and after two weeks more 
do the same, leaving the cask about 
three quarters full. Thus a consider- 
able flat surface inside is left exposed 
to the air. Once a day for the first 
few weeks draw from the spigot a 
gallon or more of cider and pour it 
from a considerable height through a 
funnel into the bunghole. This keeps 
the cider full of air. Also, put into 
each barrel a pound or more of bread 
dough, prepared as for making ordi- 
nary wheat bread, in the state iii 
which it is ready to be put into the 
oven. 

Other methods recommended for 
hastening the process of fermentation 
are the addition of a quart or more 
of molasses to each cask, 2 ounces of 
brown sugar to each gallon of cider, 
or brown paper dipped in New Or- 
leans molasses. But the bread dough 
is perhaps to be preferred. The 
ordinary skunk-cabbage baUs, which 
occur plentifully in swamps and mead- 
ows in many localities, are also em- 
ployed for this purpose. 

Or the mother of vinegar from an 
old cider barrel wiU greatly hasten 
the process. 

Cheap Cider Vinegar. — Save the 
pomace from which cider is made, or 
buy pomace from the cider miU. Put 
it into tight casks or hogsheads with 
the head knocked out of one end and 
a spigot near the bottom, and cover 
with filtered rain water. Tack over 
the top two or three thicknesses of 
cheese cloth to keep out insects and 
dust. Draw off the liquor from the 
bottom as fast as it ferments, and 
use it to dilute pure cider. Thus 
nearly two barrels of vinegar can be 
made from one of cider. 

To Sake Cider Vinegar Quickly, 
— FiU a jar or jug with cider and 
add for each gallon of cider a pint 
of New Orleans molasses and a cup- 
ful of good yeast. Take out the cork 
of the jug or leave the cover of the 
jar tilted slightly to admit the air. 



566 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



The cider will commence to ferment 
at once and will be turned into vine- 
gar in about a week. Pour oS the 
clear into demijohns or bottles and 
cork tightly for use. Leave the lees 
or mother, and fill up the original re- 
ceptacle with fresh cider to repeat 
the process. 

To Preserve Vinegar. — ^To preserve 
vinegar after it has ripened to per- 
fection, draw it off from the mother 
into a clean cask and drive in the 
bung to exclude the air. 

Or clarify and bottle it in tightly 
stoppered bottles and store at a low 
temperature. If it again tWckens 
and shows traces of mother, it must 
be once more drawn off into a clean 
vessel. 

Grape Vinegar. — ^The juice of the 
grapes must first be extracted in a 
wine press and allowed to ferment. 
Wine when a year old usually fur- 
nishes the best vinegar, as with great- 
er age the wine loses a part of its 
organic matter and becomes unsuita- 
ble for vinegar. To make vinegar 
from wine it is first poured into a 
cask containing wine lees. It is then 
placed in cloth sacks in an ironbound 
vat or cask and squeezed through the 
cloth by means of weights from 
above. It is then placed in upright 
casks having a bimghole at the top 
and allowed to sour, same as cider 
vinegar. If casks are exposed to the 
summer sun, the contents turn to 
vinegar in about two weeks. But in 
winter the process in a warm room 
requires a month or more. The tem- 
perature should be 75° to 86° F. The 
vidne is next drawn off into barrels 
containing beech-wood chips, to clar- 
ify for about two weeks. It is then 
ready for use. The original cask, 
containing the residue of mother, is 
used without cleansing to ferment 
additional wine. 

In making the best qualities of 
vinegar the vrine is first clarified by 
running it into casks or vats contain- 
ing beech shavings. The ripening 
casks are then filled about a quarter 
full of boiling vinegar, which is al- 
lowed to stand for three or four days, 



after which the wine is gradually 
added at the rate of about a gallon 
at a time until the casks are filled. 
After about two or three weeks the 
wine is turned to vinegar. One half 
is then drawn off and bottled or 
stored for use, and the cask is re- 
filled as before. This process is some- 
times continued for ten years, with- 
out the casks ever becoming more 
than half empty, but after that length 
of time it is necessary to remove the 
accimiulated sediment. 

White-Wine Vinegar. — Crush 2 
pounds of clean juicy raisins. Add 
a gallon of filtered rain water, place 
in a 2-gallon jug uncorked, and let it 
stand in a warm place. In about a 
month it will be converted into pure 
white-wine vinegar. 

Pour out the clear vinegar through 
a cheese-cloth strainer, leaving the 
raisins and sediment in the jug; add 
i pound of raisins in another gallon 
of water, and repeat the process. 

Corn Vinegar. — Boil in a gallon of 
rain water a pint of shelled Indian 
corn until the kernels burst. Pour 
the whole into a 2-gallon stone jug 
and add filtered rain water to supply 
that lost by evaporation, making a 
gallon all told. Dissolve J pound of 
granulated sugar in i pound of soft 
water by bringing it to a boil. Pour 
into the jug; shake well. Cover the 
mouth of the jug with two or three 
thicknesses of cheese cloth. Let stand 
in a warm place at a temperature of 
75° or 80° F. It will be converted 
into vinegar in about a month. Pour 
off this vinegar into another jug, 
leaving about half the mother, and 
repeat the process. 

To preserve this vinegar, cover the 
mouth of the jug with a piece of 
cloth and store it in a dry, warm 
place. This recipe makes vinegar 
about as cheaply as it can be made, 
and gives a quality that is preferred 
by many to ordinary cider vinegar. 
It is worth trying. 

To Clarify Vinegar. — To clarify 
vinegar for bottling, draw it off into 
a clean cask or other vessel and throw 
into it a handful more or less of 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



567 



shredded isinglass. Let it stand for 
a few days and filter through a 
cheese cloth. 

Distilled Vinegar. — Vinegar is dis- 
tilled by heating in an ordinary re- 
tort by means of a sand bath, about 
7 pints being carried over from each 
gallon. No lead or pewter can be 
used in any part of the retort or con- 
denser, as the acetic acid acting upon 
these metals produces a poisonous 
compound. Distilled vinegar is weak- 
er than the ordinary commercial arti- 
cle for the reason that water boils at 
a lower temperature than acetic acid. 
Hence more water than acetic acid 
is carried over. Distilled vinegar is 
used principally by druggists. 

To Decolorize Vinegar. — Sub- 
stances recommended for this pur- 
pose are ivory black, bone black or 
ordinary charcoal, all of which have 
the property of absorbing the various 
coloring matters so as to reduce 
ordinary cider, red wine, or other 
highly colored vinegar to a limpid and 
transparent whiteness. 

Mix with each gallon of red wine 
or cider vinegar about 6 ounces of 
pure bone charcoal, from which, by 
means of a coarse sieve, all loose dust 
and small grains have been removed. 
Place the whole in a glass or earthen- 
ware vessel and shake or stir from 
time to time until the color has been 
removed. 

Or the charcoal, in the same pro- 
portion, can be thrown into an ordi- 
nary cask, and the contents stirred 
occasionally. 

Or if the cask is bunged up, the 
cask may be rolled or rocked, or 
ended up from time to time, to bring 
the charcoal in contact with all parts 
of the vinegar. 

Or a double bag of any desired size 
may be made of coarse linen and 
lined with a layer of charcoal 3 or 3 
inches in thickness. This should be 
quilted sufficiently to prevent the 
charcoal from settling or bunching 
up. Vinegar may be decolorized by 
straining through this. 

Strength of Vinegar. — The strength 
of vinegar or the amount of acetic 



acid which is contained in different 
specimens, differs greatly. To deter- 
mine the proportion of acetic acid, 
suspend 4 or 5 ounces, by weight, of 
broken pieces of fine marble in 16 
ounces, by weight, of vinegar. The 
acetic acid will attack the marble 
and will be gradually neutralized. 
Let stand overnight. Remove the 
marble, rinse it in cold water, dry it 
thoroughly with gentie heat on top 
of the stove (but take care not to 
melt it), and weigh it carefully, f of 
its loss in weight is the quantity of 
actual acetic acid contained in the 
sample. And from this amount the 
proportion of acetic acid can be read- 
ily obtained. 

Good vinegar should contain about 
5 per cent of absolute acetic acid. 
The commercial test is the num- 
ber of grains of pure carbonate of 
potassium that will exactiy neutralize 
1 fluid ounce of vinegar. If 20 grains 
of carbonate of potassium are re- 
quired, the sample is known as 20 
grains' strength. 

Purity of Vinegar. — ^Various min- 
eral acids, as sulphuric, nitric, hydro- 
chloric and others, are sometimes 
added to vinegar as adulterants to 
increase its acidity, and for other 
purposes. Red pepper, mustard, and 
other acrid substances are also used, 
and traces of copper and lead are 
sometimes derived from the vats or 
ketties in which the vinegar is pre- 
pared. 

Test for Sulphuric Acid. — Stir into 
a sample of suspected vinegar a small 
quantity of potato starch and bring 
to a boa. Remove from the fire and 
let stand until entirely cold. Add 
slowly, drop by drop, a solution of 
iodine. If the vinegar* is pure, the 
iodine solution wiU produce the blue 
color of iodide of starch, but if sul- 
phuric acid is present the starch will 
have been converted by boiling into 
dextrin, and the blue color will not 
appear. 

Or dip a piece of writing paper in 
the vinegar and heat it over the 
stove; if the vinegar is pure, the pa- 
per will not be charred, but the pres- 



668 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



ence of 2 per cent or more of sul- 
phuric acid will char it. 

Or a more delicate test consists in 
bringing to a boil a solution of J 
ounce of sugar in 16 ounces of water 
and when it reaches the boiling point 
dipping into it a china cup or saucer. 
If a drop of vinegar is let fall on this 
china surface while moistened with 
sirup at the temperature of boiling 
water (212° F.) if pure it will pro- 
duce no perceptible effect. But if it 
contains the slightest trace of sul- 
phuric acid it wiU produce a spot of 
color ranging from pale green to a 
darker brown or black in proportion 
to the quantity of free sulphuric acid 
present. 

Test for Hydrochloric Acid. — ^To^ 
test for hydrochloric acid use the 
boiled potato-starch and solution-of- 
iodine test for sulphuric acid; the 
reaction will be the same. 

Or add to the suspected sample a 
little silver nitrate, which, if hydro- 
chloric acid is present, will produce 
a white precipitate. 

Test for Nitric Acid. — To test for 
nitric acid, add a solution of indigo 
to the sample of vinegar and bring 
to a boil. The nitric acid can be de- 
tected by a yellow color. 

Tests for Other Adulterants. — To 
discover the presence of red pepper, 
mustard, etc., boil down the vinegar 
until all the water it contains has 
been evaporated, when, if these sub- 
stances are present, the resulting ex- 
tract will have a shatp, biting teiste. 

To test for copper, add potassium 
ferrocyanide, which will give a brown 
precipitate. 

To test for lead, add hydrogen sul- 
phide, which wUl give a black pre- 
cipitate, or potassium iodine, which 
will produce a yellow precipitate. 

To Strengthen Vinegar. — To 
strengthen a quantity of weak vine- 
gar, boil down a gallon of good vine- 
gar to 2 quarts, and let it stand in the 
sun for a week or ten days. Add 
this to about six times its own bulk 
of weak vinegar. The whole will be 
strengthened and given an agreeable 
flavor. 



SPECIAL VIKE&ABS 

Aromatic Vinegar. — This is a mix- 
ture or compoimd of strong acetic 
acid or ordinary vinegar with vari- 
ous essential oils. It is a volatile and 
powerful perfume having a pungent 
odor and is snuffed in the nostrils as 
a stimulant in languor, faintness, ner- 
vous debility, etc. 

To produce the best qualities of 
aromatic vinegar, a glacial or crystalr 
lizable acetic acid is combined with 
various essential oUs at the rate of 6 
drops, more or less, of the oil§ of 
clove, lavender, rosemary, calamus, 
etc., to 1 ounce of glacial acetic acid. 

Aromatic vinegar must be kept 
tightly corked. For use it may be 
dropped on a sponge or snuffed from 
a vinaigrette. It may also be used 
as a caustic for warts, corns, and 
other callouses. But on account of 
its caustic properties it must be care- 
fully kept from clothing and the skin. 
Treat accidental burns with cooking 
soda. 

Imitation of Aromatic Vinegar. — 
Common vinegar may be boiled down 
with very gentle heat until 90 per 
cent to 95 per cent of its bulk has 
been lost by evaporation, and the 
remainder wiU be almost pure acetic 
acid. To this the essential oUs may 
be added in the above proportions, 
and a fairly good grade of aromatic 
vinegar obtained. 

Fruit Vinegars. — The juices of 
most ordinary fruits, as raspberries, 
currants, gooseberries, and the like, 
contain sufficient sugar to ferment 
and produce an alcoholic liquor from 
which vinegar can be made, either 
with or without the addition of sugar 
sirup or molasses. 

To make vinegar from fruits, ex- 
tract the juice by boiling the fruit 
with about its own quantity of water. 
Squeeze out the juice through several 
thicknesses of cheese cloth. This may 
be done by inserting sticks at either 
end and twisting them. To each gal- 
lon of fruit juice add about a quar- 
ter pint of good yeast, and let stand 
in an open jug or jar with the cover 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



569 



filightly tilted at a temperature of 
70° or 80° F. 

Or the boiled fruit juice may be 
allowed to stand for two or three 
days, to ferment before straining. 
And the yeast may be added after 
the fermented liquor has been freed 
from the fruit pulp. 

Vinegar made from fruit juices is 
of better quality and ]s.eeps better 
than that made from malt liquors. 
These juices are often prepared in 
much the same manner before they 
are fully turned into vinegar and 
used as cooling drinks. And ordi- 
nary vinegar *is frequently flavored 
with fruit juices for table use. The 
following include miscellaneous rec- 
ipes of these kinds: 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Pick over IJ 
pints of fresh raspberries. Place them 
in an earthenware jar or jug, and 
pour over them 3 pints of pure vine- 
gar. After twenty-four hours strain 
out the liquor, discard the fruit 
pulp, clean the jar, place in it li 
pints of fresh raspberries, and pour 
the liquor over them. After another 
twenty-four hours repeat the process 
for the third time, thus using, all told, 
4J pints of fresh raspberries. Decant 
the clear liquor through two or three 
thicknesses of cheese cloth, without 
squeezing, into a double boUer of 
graniteware, porcelain, or tin. But 
do not use a graniteware kettle that 
is chipped so as to expose the iron. 
Stir in until dissolved 1 pound of 
crushed loaf sugar for each pint of 
liquor. Boil for one hour, taking off 
the scimi with a skimmer as fast as 
it appears. Bottle, cork, and seal. 

Gooseberry Vinegar. — ^Mash in a 
suitable vessel half a bushel of ripe 
gooseberries. Using for this purpose 
the end of a stick of hard wood. 
Add 6 gallons of lukewarm rain wa- 
ter, and let stand twenty-four hours. 
Strain through several thicknesses 
of cheese cloth, stir in 13 pounds of 
coarse brown sugar, and pour the 
whole into a 9-galIon cask, filling it 
up with warm rain water. Let stand 
three or four days, stirring several 
times a day to dissolve the sugar, 



which settles at the bottom. Head 
up the cask, pack two or three thick- 
nesses of cheese cloth over the bung- 
hole, and place the cask in a warm 
place, near the kitchen stove indoors, 
but not in the sun. It will be turned 
into vinegar in from nine to twelve 
months. It may then be strained and 
bottled for use. When so inade 
gooseberry vinegar is superior to the 
best white-wine vinegar, and will 
make a better quality of pickles 
than the most expensive vinegar of 
commerce, preserving the ingredients 
better, whereas the cost is next to 
nothing. 

Or for each quart of ripe gooseber- 
ries, add 3 quarts of water, ferment 
forty-eight hours, strain, stir in IJ 
pounds of sugar, and let stand in a 
warm place ten months or more, when 
it will be ready for use. 

Raspberry, corn, and other fruit 
vinegars may be made by the same 
plan, and substantially the same pro- 
portions may be observed. 

Horse-Kadish Vinegar. — Mix IJ 
ounces of horse-radish, J ounce of 
minced shallot, J ounce of Cayenne 
pepper or paprika, and pour over it 
a pint of vinegar. Let stand a week 
or ten days, strain through cheese 
cloth and bottle for use. 

Cucumber Vinegar. — Place in a 
large stone jar about IJ dozen large 
cucumbers, pared and sliced, 4 large 
onions, pared and sliced, 2 or 3 pieces 
of garlic and shallots, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of black 
or white pepper, and J teaspoonful 
of paprika or Cayenne. Let stand 
four or five days, bring to a boil, cool 
and strain, or filter through linen 
cloth or filter paper, and bottle for 
table use. 

Chili Vinegar. — Chop fine 25 chili 
peppers and pour over them J pint 
or more of pure vinegar. Let stand 
about ten days or two weeks, strain 
through cheese cloth and preserve in 
small bottles tightly corked for table 
use. 

Cayenne Vinegar. — Place J ounce 
of Cayenne pepper or paprika in a 
glass bottle and pour over it a pint 



570 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



of pure vinegar. Let stand a month 
or more, shaking frequently. Strain 
into small bottles and cork tightly. 

Shallot Vinegar. — Chop fine i doz- 
en shallots, put them in a glass bot- 
tle, pour over them a pint of pure 
vinegar. Cork tightly. Let stand a 
month or more, strain and preserve 
in small bottles tightly corked. 

Camp Vinegar. — Chop together J 
dozen anchovies, 1 shallot, 1 clove of 
garlic, and stir in J saltspoonful of 
Cayenne and 3 ounces of walnut cat- 
sup. Place in a. glass bottle and pour 
over it i pint pure vinegar. Let stand 
a week or ten days, strain and bottle 
for use. 

Garlic Vinegar. — Place in a glass 
bottle 1 ounce of finely chopped gar- 
lic, pour over it a pint of strong vine- 
gar. Let stand ten days, shaking fre- 
quently, strain and bottle for use. 

Curry Vinegar. — Place 3 ounces of 
curry powder in a glass bottle, add 
3 pints of strong vinegar. Let stand 
a week or ten days in a warm place, 
strain and bottle for use. 

PICKLES AND FICELIITG 

Sickling Vegetables. — Almost 
every sort of esculent may be pre- 
served for table use by means of 
spiced vinegar. The objects to be 
obtained are to secure firmness or 
hardness of texture, to impart a fine 
bright green or other color, to kiU all 
germs of decay that may be present, 
and to protect from the air. 

Firmness of texture is secured by 
steeping the vegetable in strong brine 
for a number of days, and by picking 
them over at intervals to discard all 
doubtful specimens. This may be 
done by lifting them from the brine, 
rinsing them and after they have been 
picked over, covering them with brine 
that is freshly made. The excess of 
brine may then be removed by fresh- 
ening them in pure salt water for 
twenty-four hours or more. 

A fine green is imparted by lining 
a kettle with fresh vine leaves and 
packing the pickles with these in al- 
ternate layers. The addition of pow- 



dered alum sprinkled among the lay- 
ers assists in setting or fixing the 
color. They are then covered with 
cold water and boiled for two hours 
or more until the color is satisfac- 




' Pickles and Pickling. 



tory. Cooking, of course, softens 
them, but their freshness may be re- 
stored by dropping them into iced 
water for an hour or two. 

Finally, scalding hot pickling liq- 
uid is poured over them both to kiU 
the germs of decay and exclude the 
air. And this process may be re- 
peated by pouring off the pickling 
liquid, bringing it to a boil and again 
pouring it over them at intervals of 
every two or three days for a fort- 
night. The jars may then be sealed, 
or a layer of cotton batting tied over 
them to exclude the germs that float 
in the air, and thus they may be pre- 
served for years. 

To Select Gncumbers for Pickling. 
— Plant for pickles a variety of cu- 
cumbers that bears a large number 
of small cucumbers, only 2 or 3 inches 
long when ripe. These are small, 
compact, and make firm, crisp pickles 
that are preferred by most persons 
to the large cucumber pickles, which, 
when ripe, are 5 to 7 inches long, 3 
to 3 inches thick, and fuU of seeds. 

Or use the small, unripe specimens 
of the large varieties. Cut the cu- 
cumbers from the vines carefully. 
Leave part of the stem on. And take 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



571 



care to handle them gently. If 
bruised they will become soft and de- 
cay. Pick the vines clean each morn- 
ing of all that are of a suitable size. 
This keeps the vines bearing. Pick 
them over carefully. Throw out any 
that are bruised or spotted in any 
way. And, if an Al quality of pickles 
is desired, either for home use or for 
sale, sort them into lots of uniform 
size and shape. 

To Preserve Cucumbers for Pickles. 
— Have ready two or more stout 
wooden tubs or earthenware jars, and 
in these each morning as fast as they 
are gathered pack the pickles in lay- 
ers. First put on the bottom of the 
vessel a layer of salt J inch thick, 
then a layer of cucumbers. Over 
them put a layer of salt about J inch 
thick. When about 30 cucumbers 
have been packed in this way, add a 
large cupful of water. This will dis- 
solve the salt and make brine enough 
to cover the cucumbers. Put a stout 
board, with a stone on top, over the 
cucumbers to press them down in the 
brine. Continue to add more cucum- 
bers from time to time as they are 
ready, picking them if possible in the 
morning before the dew is off. Add 
salt and water until the keg is full. 
Weigh down the cucumbers securely 
under the brine and untU ready to do 
them up store the keg in a cold cel- 
lar. Look at them now and then to 
be sure that they are kept under the 
brine, and add more brine, if neces- 
sary, to replace the water lost by 
evaporation. Let stand in brine ten 
days to two weeks, or until they be- 
come yellow. But they will not be in- 
jured if allowed to stand longer, pro- 
vided the brine covers them. 

Or after standing in cold brine for 
one week, lift them carefully from 
the brine with the hands, so as not to 
bruise them. Place the brine over the 
fire and bring it to a boil. Immerse 
the cucimibers in the brine while boil- 
ing hot. 

Or some authorities recommend 
that the brine be poured off, heated, 
and again poured over the pickles 
each day for a week or more, or every 



two or three days. But the better 
opinion seems to be in favor of steep- 
ing or immersing them in cold brine 
for a longer period to draw out the 
rank juices that occur in all crude, 
fruit rather than to pour scalding 
brine over them. Scalding is thought 
by many to be unnecessary, and to 
tend to make the pickles soft. 

To Store Pickles.^Wooden tubs or 
casks are to be preferred for storing 
pickles in large quantities, or glass 
bottles or fruit jars for the finer 
qualities. There is an advantage in 
smsiU bottles, crocks, or jars as only 
a small quantity need be opened at a 
time. 

Porcelain, graniteware, aluminum, 
or new tinware are the most suitable 
vessels in which to heat the vinegar 
and the brine. Anything that has 
held grease vnll spoil pickles. 

If packed in wide-mouthed glass 
bottles or fruit jars, seal tightly, or 
cork and cover the corks with melted 
paraffin or other bottle wax. But if 
the pickles are laid down in jars or 
kegs they should be looked over occa- 
sionally, and if any of them are soft 
they should be removed, the vinegar 
turned out, scalded, and again poured 
over the pickles. There must be suffi- 
cient vinegar to cover the pickles 
thoroughly, and it must be of at least 
medium strength. If the vinegar be- 
comes weak, pour out and replace 
with fresh vinegar scalding hot. The 
addition <jf a little sugar when the 
pickles are looked over helps to keep 
them and improves their flavor. By 
the blending of the flavors of the va- 
rious ingredients, pickles, if properly 
laid down, should improve with age. 
Store pickles in a cold place, as if 
they are kept too warm they may be 
attacked by the small fly so familiar 
in autumn. 

Or to lay down pickles permanently 
in brine, cover them with boiling 
water and let stand until they are 
cold. Drain thoroughly. Put a layer 
of dry salt in the bottom of the bar- 
rel, put down a layer of pickles, cover 
with dry salt, and so continue. Add 
no water. Put a weight above them 



572 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



and their juice will furnish the neces- 
sary moisture to dissolve the salt and 
make sufBcient brine to cover them. 
A small quantity can be freshened 
from time to time and freshly pickled 
as required for use. But this method 
of laying down pickles is not the one 
commonly preferred. 

To Freshen Cucumbers. — After 
cucumbers have been steeped in brine 
until they are entirely yellow, and 
about three days before they are to 
be done up, lift them carefully from 
the brine into a clean vessel, cover 
them with clean cold water and let 
stand three or four days, changing 
the water each day or oftener to 
freshen them. 

To Pickle Cucumbers. — Pack the 
freshened cucumbers in wide-mouthed 
bottles or jars and pour over them 
either pure vinegar boiling hot or any 
desired pickle of spiced vinegar and 
seal. 

Or first pour over them pure vine- 
gar scalding hot and let stand in a 
warm place until they become green. 
Every two or three days pour off the 
vinegar, reheat it and again pour 
it over the cucumbers scalding hot; 
when the color is satisfactory pour 
off the pure vinegar and cover them 
with the spiced pickle if desired. But 
while the above is recommended as a 
thorough method designed to prepare 
a high-grade quality of pickles, rec- 
ommendations of authorities differ 
very widely and good practice doubt- 
less varies equally as much or more. 
One authority recommends merely 
washing cucumbers in salt and water, 
and immediately bottling and cover- 
ing them with boiling hot pickle. 
Another, scalding fresh-picked cu- 
cumbers with boiling brine, and when 
cold draining and at once covering 
them with boiling vinegar. Another 
would cover fresh-picked cucumbers 
at once with boiling vinegar contain- 
ing a handful of salt, reheating the 
vinegar every two or three days until 
they become green, then pickling and 
sealing. Hence it may be inferred 
that preserving in brine before pic- 
kling is not necesssary, but we prefer 



to recommend it for reasons already 
stated. 

Authorities also differ as to whether 
the brine should be cold or heated, 
and the length of time the cucumbers 
should be immersed in brine, and also 
as to whether it is sufficient to cover 
the cucumbers with scalding vinegar 
and immediately seal, or preferable 
to let them stand, reheating the vine- 
gar occasionally to green them. All 
of these questions must be decided by 
each person for himself according to 
the grade of pickles desired, and his 
willingness to take the necessary 
pains. In general, it is believed that 
the slower and more painstaking the 
process, the better will be the quality 
of the product. 

Utensils for Pickling:. — ^It was for- 
merly customary to make pickles in 
kettles of brass or bell metal in order 
to give them a bright green color, 
and also to add more or less alum for 
the same purpose. But the action of 
the acetic acid contained in vinegar 
upon brass and similar metals is to 
produce a poisonous compound, es- 
pecially if the pickles are allowed to 
stand in them until they become cold. 
The use of alum is also injurious, 
and for the same reason cheap earth- 
enware, which is frequently glazed 
with lead, should not be employed. 

Many people have a prejudice 
against deep green pickles found on 
the market, on account of the fear 
that poisonous substances may have 
been used in the manufacture. Hence 
homemade pickles of a good color 
and flavor usually find a ready and 
profitable local market. 

To Test Pickles for Copper. — To 
find out if pickles are poisonous from 
having been cooked in brass or cop- 
per kettles, chop a sample of the 
pickle fine, place it in a glass bottle 
with a few drams of liquid ammonia 
diluted with about half as much water. 
Shake thoroughly, and if there are 
any traces of copper in the pickles 
the contents will be of a deep blue 
color. 

Vinegar for Pickles.— White-wine 
or sugar vinegar is perhaps the most 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



573 



suitable for a fine grade of pickles. 
But any good quality of vinegar that 
is fully ripened and has been pre- 
viously clarified may be used. The 
vinegar should be boiled and freed 
from mother or sediment that would 
cause the pickles to ferment. 

To Clarify Vinegar. — Throw an 
ounce or so of shredded isinglass into 
each gallon of vinegar and let stand 
a few days to clear. Strain through 
cheese cloth. 

To Keep Vinegar Free from Hold. 
— Lay a small bag of thin muslin 
containing mustard on top of the 
pickles. If the vinegar has been 
properly boiled and clarified, it will 
tend to prevent the formation of 
mold. 

To Strengthen Weak Vinegar. — 
Pour it off the pickles, bring it to a 
boil, pour it back over them and 
add about J teaspoonful of alum and 
spread over the top layer a piece of 
brown paper soaked in New Orleans 
molasses. 

Or boil down the vinegar with very 
gentle heat so as to allow it to lose 
•its surplus water by evaporation. 

Or allow it to freeze, and remove the 
ice before it melts. Acetic acid does 
not readily freeze. Hence the quan- 
tity of acid in proportion to the bulk 
of water becomes greater. 

Spiced Pickle. — The following reci- 
pes are reconmiended for pickling 
liquids for cucumbers and other vege- 
tables, mixed pickles, etc., including 
mushrooms, onions, walnuts, cucum- 
bers, cauliflowers, samphires, green 
gooseberries, barberries, radish pods, 
melons, French beans, t»matoes, lem- 
ons, peaches, garlic, peas, codlins, 
beet root, and red cabbage without 
brine and with cold vinegar. The 
smaller and more delicate vegetables 
should not be soaked in brine as long 
as the larger and the coarser sorts, 
and may in some cases be pickled 
cold by pouring over them strong 
pickling vinegar without scalding. 
Spices for pickles should not be 
ground, and should be slightly bruised 
or crushed in a mortar, which may be 
improvised by using a wooden bowl 



and a potato masher as a pestle, or 
the end of a hard piece of wood. 
When ground spices are used they 
should be tied up in bags of thin 
muslin. To make spiced pickle add 
to 1 gallon of vinegar 1 cup of salt, 
1 cup of sugar, 1 handful of horse- 
radish, 2 tablespoonfuls of mustard, 

1 green pepper. 

, Or to every 3 quarts of vinegar add 
i ounce of mace, 1 ounce of gin- 
ger sliced, 1 dozen cloves, 1 oimce of 
black pepper, 1 handfiil of salt. Boil 
all together for not more than five 
minutes, and pour over the pickles 
scalding hot. 

Or add to the above if desired 3 or 
4 cloves of garlic and shallots. 

Or to 3 quarts of pure white-wine 
or other strong vinegar add 3 ounces 
of ginger, J ounce of mace, i pound 
of salt, J tablespoonful of Cayenne 
pepper, 1 ounce of white or black 
pepper unground, 1 ounce of mustard 
seed, 4 ounces of shallots. BoU to- 
gether not more than five minutes 
and pour over cucumbers and other 
hard, firm vegetables scalding hot, 
or over small and delicate vegetables 
cold. 

Or crush together in a mortar 4 
ounces of unground black pepper, 3 
ounces of ginger root, 1 ounce of all- 
spice and 4 ounces of salt. Cayenne, 
paprika, or garlic may be added in 
small quantities if desired. Place a 
quart of vinegar in an enameled 
saucepan, and bring to a boil. Stir 
in these spiceS; Let boil not more 
than five minutes and pour over the 
pickles scalding hot for cucumbers, 
walnuts, and the like, or cold for cab- 
bage or fancy mixed pickles. 

Or place these spices in a glass 
bottle or stone jar, cover with a 
quart of green vinegar, seal and let 
stand in a warm place three or four 
days, shaking frequently. Pour over 
the pickles either hot or cold. 

Or to 1 gallon of vinegar add 6 
ounces of salt, 1 ounce of spice, 1 
ounce of mustard, J ounce of mace, 
J ounce of cloves, J ounce of nutmeg, 

2 ounces of sliced horse-radiSh. Bruise 
these spices in water, mix, cover with 



574 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



cold water and boil not over five min- 
utes. Pour over the pickles hot or 
cold, and if desired, after letting them 
stand twenty-four hours, place the 
whole in a porcelain saucepan and 
simmer until the color is satisfactory. 
Bottle and seal. 

Or to every 3 quarts of vinegar add 
1 teaspoonful of black pepper, 1 tea- 
spoonful of mace, J cupful of sugar. 
Let the mixture boil up not to exceed 
five minutes. They may be bottled 
hot or cold and will be at once ready 
for use. 

Or heat the vinegar and pour it 
boiling hot over the pickles. 

Or place in a porcelain kettle 100 
small cucimibers previously soaked in 
brine and freshened, cover with vine- 
gar, add a handful of pepper corns, 
a handful of horse-radish, 1 ounce of 
cloves, 1 ounce of white mustard seed, 
a small quantity of Cayenne or pa- 
prika, and let the whole boil not to 
exceed five minutes. 

Or heat the vinegar and spice and 
pour it hot over the pickles. The 
addition of horse-radish helps to keep 
the pickles sweet and sound. Old- 
time housewives used often to add to 
the pickles a little dill from the herb 
bed. 

Or to each gallon of vinegar add 

1 pound of good quality brown su- 
gar, 1 tablespoonful of olive oil, 1 
tablespoonful of mustard seed, 1 ta- 
blespoonful of green pepper pods, 

2 ounces of horse-radish, J ounpe of 
cloves, i ounce of mace, 1 ounce of 
ginger, 1 ounce of allspice. 

To Fickle Large Cucumbers. — ^Pare 
7 pounds of large cucumbers, remove 
the seeds and cut into inch pieces. 
Cover with vinegar and water, half 
and half, and add a large pinch of 
salt. Boil imtil clear but not over- 
done. Drain in a colander. 

To one pint of good vinegar add 3i 
pounds of brown sugar; as soon as it 
comes to the boiling point put the cu- 
cumbers back into the kettle and let 
the whole boil up. Again drain 
through the colander, and when cold 
put them in layers in a jar, sprinkle 
between the layers stick cinnamon. 



cloves, allspice, a few kernels of black 
pepper, a little mace, and a handful 
of raisins. Cover with the pickling 
liquid and seal. 

Or cut a piece from the large end 
of each cucumber, leaving it attached 
by a piece of the skin. Scoop out the 
seeds and steep in strong brine for 
a week until entirely yellow. Stuff 
with equal parts mustard seed, 
ground ginger, and pepper, with the 
addition of small onions, shallots, or 
garlic if desired. Sew on the tops 
and cover with pickling liquid as for 
gherkins. 

To Fickle Uelons and Mangoes. — 
Prepare as for large cucumbers, cut- 
ting off the top and stuffing the in- 
side with the same mixture. Or 
pickle as for gherkins. First steep 
in strong brine for a week or more, 
then freshen in clear water and pickle 
in pure vinegar or spiced pickling 
liquid, as preferred. 

Sweet Pickles — Cucumbers and 
Melons. — Prepare as for gherkins by 
steeping in strong brine for a week 
or more. Quarter them, take out the 
seed and pulp, freshen in clear water 
for three or four days, and cover with 
a, sirup prepared of sugar, ginger, 
and lemon as follows: 

Dip 1 pound of loaf sugar lump by 
lump in clear, soft water and place 
dripping wet in a porcelain saucepan. 
Stir in J ounce of bruised ginger and 
boil to the thread, stirring in the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
Pour over the melons cold. 

To Green Pickles. — If fresh grape- 
vine leaves are obtainable, line a ket- 
tle with these and pack into it the 
cucumbers, etc., in alternate layers 
with vine leaves, and put a thick 
layer of vine leaves on top. In addi- 
tion, sprinkle powdered alum, if de- 
sired, among the layers and over the 
top. Fill up the kettle with cold water 
and cook or steam the contents over 
a slow fire for two hours, or xmtil 
the color is satisfactory. Drain off 
the hot water through a colander, im- 
merse the vegetables immediately in 
iced water, and let stand for an hour 
or more to harden. Then pack in a 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



575 



stiitable vessel and pour scalding hot 
pickling liquid over them. 

Or the vine leaves may be used 
without the alum and wiU assist in 
giving a fine green color to the 
pickles. 

MIXED FIGELSS 

To make cheap mixed pickles have 
at hand a keg containing vinegar and 
put into it from time to time odds 
and ends of vegetables, as small green 
beans, young cucumbers, small onions, 
radish pods, bits of cauliflower, and 
the like, adding vinegar from time to 
time to keep the vegetables covered. 
Thus any odd vegetables can be pre- 
served without expense except for the 
vinegar, spice, etc., and with very lit- 
tle trouble. When the keg is nearly 
full place the contents in a suitable 
kettle with vine leaves and boil them 
about two hours. 

Drain off the hot vinegar, inmierse 
the vegetables in cold water for an 
hour or more to harden, add spiceS 
to the vinegar, boil for five minutes, 
drain the vegetables thoroughly, place 
them in a suitable keg or jar and 
pour the scalding hot pickling liquid 
over them. 

Or take any assortment of succu- 
lent vegetables, as small French beans 
of uniform size, small select gherkins 
2 or 3 inches long, small cucumbers 
sliced, and prepare them as for ordi- 
nary cucumber pickles. 

Prepare separately such vegeta- 
bles as broccoli, caidiflower stripped 
into branches, smaU pickling onions 
peeled, small red peppers, capsicums, 
radish pods, small fruit, white and 
red cabbage, celery, nasturtium seeds 
and the like by steeping for a short 
time, say two or three days, in brine 
and slightly freshening them. Now 
pack the gherkins and sliced cucum- 
bers with the other vegetables in 
wide-mouthed glass bottles or jars in 
such a way as to show the greatest 
variety of color and display the con- 
tents to the best advantage. Much 
of the attractiveness and consequent 
salabiUty of mixed pickles is due to 



skillful packing. Cover with any of 
the above spiced liquids recommend- 
ed for cucumber pickles. 

Or prepare a special pickle con- 
taining turmeric, which will improve 
the color. For each gallon of vinegar 
mix 4 ounces of ginger, 4 ounces of 
turmeric, 3 ounces of white pepper, 

2 ounces of chili pepper, 2 ounces of 
allspice, 1 ounce of garlic, J ounce of 
shallots, 4 pound of bay salt. Bruise 
together in a mortar and boil in the 
vinegar not to exceed five minutes. 
Pour this liquid scalding hot over the 
vegetables and when cold slice in i 
pound of horse-radish and stir in 1 
pound of mustard seed. 

Or for each gallon of vinegar mix 

3 ounces of bay salt, i pound of mus- 
tard, 3 ounces of turmeric, 3 ounces 
of ginger, 1 ounce of cloves, J ounce 
of black pepper, Cayenne, or paprika 
to taste. Bruise the spices in a mor- 
tar, mix all together and boil in the 
vinegar not more than five minutes. 

Mustard Flckles. — Steep in a weak 
brine for twenty-four hours about 

3 quarts of gherkins, 1 quart of 
pickling onions, 2 quarts of small 
green tomatoes, 1 small cabbage 
head chopped fine, or one large cau- 
liflower pulled into branches with 3 
or 4 green peppers and boil. Then 
stir together in a mixing bowl 1 cup 
of flour, 6 tablespoonfuls of mustard, 
1 heaping teaspoonful of turmeric, 1 
quart of sugar. Rub up with a little 
cold vinegar and stir in the addi- 
tional vinegar to make 3 quarts in all. 
Cook over a brisk fire, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Pour over 
the pickles scalding hot and seal. 

Cut into small pieces 1 quart of 
large green cucumbers, 1 quart of 
very small gherkins, 2 inches in length 
or less, 1 quart of white button 
onions, 1 quart of green tomatoes 
sliced and cut in cubes, 1 large cauli- 
flower pulled into tiny flowerets, and 

4 peppers sliced and cut into cubes. 
Do not chop the ingreiyents, but cut 
into cubes or chunks J to i inch 
in thickness. Soak for twenty-four 
hours in a weak brine of about 1 
cupful of salt in a gallon of water. 



576 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Place the whole on the fire, bring to 
a boil and pour into a colander to 
drain. Mix together in a bowl 6 ta- 
blespoonfuls of ground mustard, 1 of 
turmeric, 1 cupful of flour, 1 cupful 
of brown sugar, mix dry, rub into a 
smooth cream with a little vinegar, 
and dilute with additional vinegar, 3 
quarts being used in all. Pour the 
mixture into a preserving kettle and 
let it boil until it thickens, then stir 
in the pickles, let them boil up. Pour 
into suitable cans or jars, and seal. 

Or for sweet chowchow, cut into 
inch cubes 2 dozen small cucumbers, 
6 green peppers, or 3 green and 3 red 
peppers, and 2 quarts of green toma- 
toes. Add 2 quarts of small button 
onions, 2 heads of cauliflower picked 
into pieces. Place these in a preserv- 
ing kettle, and pour over them a 
sauce composed as follows: 

Mix together in a bowl 4 teaspoon- 
fuls of celery seed, 1 cupful of mus- 
tard, i ounce of turmeric, 4 cupfuls 
of sugar. Rub to a smooth paste with 
a little of the vinegar and dilute with 
the remainder of the vinegar, using 
3 quarts in all. Pour over the 
strained pickles, bring them to a boil, 
pour out and seal. 

India fickle. — Qiop together 1 
peck of green tomatoes, 1 small head 
of cabbage, 6 or 8 large green pep- 
pers and S large onions. Mix and 
cover with vinegar and boil until they 
are tender. Salt to taste. Drain in 
a. colander. Add a dressing composed 
of i pound of mustard with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of curry powder stirred to 
the consistency of cream with vine- 
gar. Mix well and seal in glass jars 
or wide-mouthed bottles. 

Spanish Peppers. — Steep in brine 
for three days J dozen good-sized cu- 
cumbers. On the second day slice J 
dozen onions and chop fine i peck of 
green tomatoes and 2 heads of cab- 
bage. Sprinkle these with salt and 
let stand overnight. Now drain the 
cucumbers from the brine, cut in 
slices, place all in a preserving kettle 
and cover with vinegar. Add 2 ounces 
of white mustard seed, i ounce of 
celery seed, 1 heaping tablespoonful 



of turmeric, J cup of mustard, 1 
pound of brown sugar. Mix and sim- 
mer with gentle heat for half an hour. 
Pour into wide-mouthed glass bottles 
or jars, seal, and keep in a cool place. 

Piccalilli, or Indian Pickle. — ^This 
consists of a great variety of succu- 
lent vegetables (the more varied the 
better) mixed and pickled together. 
To make piccalilli slice 1 hard white 
cabbage head, remove the outer leaves, 
pull to. pieces 2 cauliflowers, add 20 
selected French beans, 1 root of horse- 
radish, sliced fine, 2 dozen pickling 
onions, 1 dozen green gherkins of uni- 
form size. Let stand in brine three 
or four days, drain through a colan- 
der, and place in a preserving kettle. 
Add 2 ounces of curry powder, 1 ounce 
of garlic, 1 ounce of ginger, 1 ounce of 
white mustard seed, J ounce of cap- 
sicum or paprika. Cover with vine- 
gar and bring to a boil. Preserve in 
glasses tightly sealed. 

Or pull apart the branches of a 
large head of cauliflower, cut a hard 
white cabbage head in quarters, re- 
move the outer leaves, chop it fine or 
shred it as for cold slaw. Slice a, 
number of cucumbers and pickling 
onions, French beans, radish pods, 
nasturtiums, samphire, and any other 
vegetables at hand. Place these in 
a large sieve, sprinkle them with salt 
and lay them out in the sun for three 
or four days to dry. Now place them 
in a preserving kettle, cover with 
cold vinegar, and bring to a boil. Let 
them boil up once. Pack in glass and 
seal. 

Or if it is desired to make an extra 
quality, keep all the ingredients sepa- 
rate and scald them separately in hot 
vinegar, but do not put them together 
until they are cold. Bruise together 
in a mortar 4 ounces of ginger, 2 
ounces of whole white pepper, 2 
ounces of allspice, ^ ounce of chilis, 
4 ounces of turmeric. Add ^ poimd of 
shallots, 1 ounce of garlic, J pound of 
bay salt. Cover with 1 gallon of vine- 
gar and boil thirty minutes. Strain 
through cheese cloth and add 1 pound 
of mustard rubbed up free from 
lumps with a small quantity of cold 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



577 



vinegar. Then dilute with more vine- 
gar to the consistency of milk and 
stir into the pickling liquid. When 
the pickling liquid is cold pour it 
over the pickles. Mix vrell and pack 
in glass bottles or a large jar corked 
or sealed to exclude the air. 

Piccalilli if veeU prepared should 
improve with age. 

Chowchow. — Chowchow is the Chi- 
nese name for a kind of mixed pickles 
originally imported from that coun- 
try and similar to piccalilli or Indian 
pickle, except that the ingredients 
are minced fine and mixed together. 
Chowchow is frequently used to stuff 
pickled peppers. It is sometimes 
known as English chowchow on ac- 
count of its popularity in that coun- 
try. French chowchow is a name 
sometimes applied to mustard pickles. 

To make Chinese or " English " 
chowchow chop fine 2 medium-sized 
heads of firm, white cabbage, J peck 
of green tomatoes, 2 quarts of firm 
ripe tomatoes, i dozen of green pep- 
pers, and 2 red peppers. Mix all to- 
gether and pack in a bag of coarse 
burlap or linen in layers of 2 or 3 
inches deep, mixed between with lay- 
ers of salt. Improvise a rack of slats 
of wood laid over the top of the bar- 
rel or keg into which it can drain. 
Place the chowchow on this and put 
over it a heavy weight. Let stand 
twenty-four hours under this pres- 
sure. Remove, pour out into a large 
pan and add IJ pints of sugar, J cup- 
ful of grated horse-radish, J tea- 
spoonful of ground mustard, 1 ounce 
of white mustard seed, 1 ounce of 
celery seed, 1 tablespoonful of mace, 

1 gUl of Dutch mustard. Stir well, 
pack in glass or wood and seal. 

Or for another sort of chowchow 
slice or chop fime, as preferred, i peck 
of tomatoes, 1 quart of green peppers, 

2 quarts of onions, 1 medium-sized 
cabbage head shredded as for cold 
slaw, and 1 quart of white mustard 
seed. Keep these ingredients sepa- 
rate and pack in layers in a jar or 
tub, first tomatoes, next peppers, next 
onions, next cabbage. Sprinkle over 
this part of the mustard seed, and so 



continue, repeating the layers again 
and again until all has been packed. 
PoUr over this any strong liquid de- 
sired, scalding hot. Let stand twenty- 
four hours, pour the whole into the 
preserving kettle, bring to a boil and 
let boil not more than five minutes. 
Pack down in suitable jars or tubs 
and seal. 

Bengal Chutney. — To make this 
celebrated Indian condiment, mix to- 
gether 1 pound of tamarind pulp, 1 
poimd of sultana raisins, 1 pound of 
ripe tomato pulp, 1 pound of sweet 
apples minced fine; extract and add 
the juice of 12 lemons, grate and stir 
in the rinds; add 4 ounces of garlic, 
6 onions chopped fine, J pound of red 
chilis, 12 ounces of powdered ginger, 
1 pound of brown sugar. Place all 
togetheir in a tub or jar, cover with 
a gallon of strong vinegar, and let 
stand for a month or more in a warm 
place, stirring occasionally until it 
is well fermented.. Pack in small, 
wide-mouthed glass bottles and seal 
tightly. 

Cucumber and Onion Pickles. — Cut 
into thick slices 3 large onions to 
each dozen cucumbers. Place in a col- 
ander or sieve, sprinkle with salt and 
let stand twenty-four hours. Place 
in a suitable keg or jar, cover with 
boiling vinegar. Cover tightly and 
let stand overnight. Boil up the vine- 
gar each day, pour over them scald- 
ing hot, and at once cover tightly to 
exclude the air. When the color is 
satisfactory pour over them spiced 
pickling liquid and seal. 

PICKLED VEGETABLES, IHTTS, ASH 
PBTJITS 

To Pickle Tomatoes. — Slice i peck 
green tomatoes, bring to a boil J gal- 
lon of any good spiced pickling liq- 
md, and put the tomatoes to boil in 
this for a quarter of an hour. When 
cold pack away in tubs or jars and 
seal. 

Or slice 1 peck of green tomatoes; 
sprinkle with salt. Let stand two 
days. Slice and salt separately 12 
medium-sized onions. Mix in a bowl 



578 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



4 ounces of mustard, | ounce of mus- 
tard seed, 1 ounce of cloves, 2 ounces 
of turmeric, and add garlic, capsi- 
cum, or paprika to flavor if desired. 
Put in a preserving kettle a layer of 
onions, sprinkle with mixed spice, 
then a layer of tomatoes and spice, 
and so on. When all are packed pour 
over them boiling vinegar and sim- 
mer for about two hours until the 
color is satisfactory. 

Or slice green pickles and place 
them in a colander. Steam in a ket- 
tle of boUing water until they are 
soft, place in jars, cover with any 
good pickling liquid cold. Let stand 
twenty-four hours, draw off the liq- 
uor, bring it to a boil and pour over 
the pickles scalding hot. 

Of gather the tomatoes when they 
are turning red, but before they are 
dead ripe. Pack them in jars whole 
and without peeling, sprinkle mixed 
spices with a little bay salt at the 
rate of about a cupful to a gallon. 
Pour over them cold cider vinegar 
and seal. 

Or pour over 1 bushel of whole to- 
matoes a quantity of boiling water. 
Let stand untU cold, pour off the 
water, skin the tomatoes, place them 
in a preserving kettle and boil until 
they are soft. Stir in mixed spices. 
Lay down the tomatoes in jars and 
seal to exclude the air. 

Fickled Onions. — To prepare onions 
for pickling, "top and tail" them, 
remove the outer skins and steep 
them in brine for a period of two or 
three days, to two weeks or more. 
Afterwards freshen them in clear 
water for a period of one to three 
days. 

Or if preferred, boU them in clear 
water or brine for ten or fifteen min- 
utes. Afterwards pack them in wide- 
mouthed glass bottles or jars, and 
cover with pure vinegar or spiced 
pickling liquid scalding hot or cold. 
When cold seal for use. The addition 
of a spoonful of olive oil to each bot- 
tle is said to keep the onions white. 
Cork tightly and cover the corks with 
bottle wax or melted parafSn. Seal 
with cotton batting. 



To Select Pickling Onions. — Choose 
for pickling small silver-sMn button 
onions, preferably of uniform size. 
Gather them when they are quite dry 
and ripe and pick them over care- 
fully, rejecting any that are soft, un- 
ripe, or spotted. 

To Pickle Onions Cold. — Place the 
onions in a clean, dry glass bottle or 
jar, cover them with cold vinegar and 
add mixed spices as preferred. Add 
a little mustard seed, mace, and cap- 
sicum, or allspice and black pepper 
unground or grated, or sliced horse- 
radish or garlic, capsicum and pa- 
prika, if desired. Seal the bottle and 
let stand two or three weeks before 
using. Onions are very easily pickled 
in this way and have an exquisite 
flavor, but will not keep more than 
about six or eight months. 

To Pickle Onions with Brine. — 
Cover the onions with cold brine and 
let stand two weeks or more, or steep 
in strong brine for one week, then 
heat the brine and pour it over them 
scalding hot. 

Or pour over them at once strong 
and hot brine and let stand two or 
three days. After steeping in brine 
drain through a colander, freshen 
in clear water for twenty-four hours, 
pour off the water and lay them on a 
dry cloth to drain. Pack them in 
jars or bottles and cover with spiced 
pickling liquid boUing hot. Cork 
tightly and seal. 

Or pour over them cold pickling 
liquid or cold vinegar and seal. 

Pickled Cabbage. — Select firm, ripe 
heads of either white or red cabbage, 
or mix the two. Quarter them, re- 
move the outside leaves, and let them 
dry. Shred them as for cold slaw 
and lay them down in a sxiitable jar 
between layers of salt. Cover with 
strong spiced pickling liquid and 
seal. 

Or shred the cabbage, place it in a 
preserving kettle or suitable jars, 
and cover with boiling water. Let 
stand until cold. Drain. Add mixed 
spices and cover with cold vinegar, or 
cover with spiced pickling liquid. 

Or boil the cabbage in 'salted water 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



579 



until It is tender. The pickling liquid 
may be poured on cold or scalding 
hot. In the latter case let stand un- 
til perfectly cold. Seal air tight and 
store in a cool, dry place. 

Or if the jars are not air tight, 
after a few days open them, fill up 
with vinegar and again seal. 

Pickled Cauliflower. — Cut the cau- 
liflowers on a dry, hot day, after the 
dew has evaporated and before they 
are fully blown. Slice and sprinkle 
them with salt, and let stand for two 
or three days. 

Or boil in salt and water until they 
are tender. Drain off the water or 
juices, spread upon a dry cloth, cov- 
ering with another cloth, and let 
stand in a warm place for twenty- 
four hours. Pack in jars, cover with 
cold spiced pickling liquid and seal. 

Or place the cauliflowers in cold 
salt and water at the rate of 4 ounces 
of salt to 1 quart of water, and bring 
to a boil over a slow fire. Remove 
immediately and cover with cold 
spiced vinegar. 

Pickled Green Corn. — PuU the ears 
of corn .when slightly overripe but 
not too hard. Take off the outer 
husks, leaving the corn well covered 
with the inner husks, and tie the lat- 
ter tightly at the top end. Pack the 
ears of corn thus prepared in a clean 
firkin or cask and cover with strong 
brine. When wanted for use soak in 
fresh water twelve hours or more, 
changing the water occasionally. 

Pickled Walnuts. — Pick smaU green 
walnuts about the first week in July 
or before the middle of the month, 
after which they are likely to become 
hard and woody. Test them by 
thrusting a strong pin through them, 
and discard all that are too old and 
hard. Scald them slightly in boiling 
water. Rub off the outer skin be- 
tween cloths (or this may be omitted 
if preferred), and put them into cold 
brine strong enough to bear up an 
egg. Thrusting a pin through them 
also allows the pickle to penetrate 
more thoroughly and quickly than 
would otherwise be the case. Let 
them stand a week or two, changing 



the brine every two or three days. 
Pour them out in a sieve or into a 
cloth strainer to dry and let them 
stand a day or two or until they turn 
black. Pack them in bottles or jars 
and pour over them spiced pickling 
liquid scalding hot. Let stand until 
cold and seal. 

Or if they are not to be sealed air 
tight, pour off the pickle each day 
for three or four days, bring it to a 
boil, take off the scum and pour over 
the walnuts scalding hot. 

Or instead of steeping in cold brine, 
place the walnuts in a strong brine 
and simmer for an hour or two. Ex- 
pose in a sieve or cloth strainer 
twenty-four hours or more, or until 
they turn black. Pack and cover with 
scalding hot spiced pickling liquid. 
Two to six months will be required 
before they are fit to eat. During 
this time they must be kept covered 
from the air either by sealing the 
jars or keeping them covered with 
vinegar. 

To Pickle White Walnuts. — Pick 
small green walnuts as above and 
pare them very thin, or until the 
whites appear. Place in cold brine 
strong enough to bear up an egg and 
simmer for five or ten minutes, but 
do not let them come to a boil. Drain 
and cover them with cold brine for 
twenty-four hours or more. Pour out 
in a sieve or cloth strainer, cover them 
with a cloth, dry them carefully be- 
tween clean, soft pieces of cloth and 
pack them down with blades of mace, 
nutmeg, and horse-radish. Cover with 
cold or hot vinegar and when cold 
seal tightly to exclude the air. 

Pickled Lemons. — Slice i dozen 
lemons, sprinkle them with salt, lay 
them down in a large glass jar and 
sprinkle among them 3 ounces of 
spice, 2 ounces of white pepper, J 
ounce of mace, 1 oimce of cloves, all 
bruised together in a mortar vnth J 
ounce of Cayenne, 2 ounces of horse- 
radish, 3 ounces of mustard seed. 
Pour over them 3 quarts of vinegar 
scalding hot. This pickle is for im- 
mediate use, and will be ready in 
three days to a week. Red peppers. 



580 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



paprika, or garlic and shallots may 
be added if desired. 

Or cut i dozen lemons into six or 
eight pieces, cover with the mixed 
spices, as in the first recipe, place in 
a preserving kettle, cover vrith 2 
quarts of vinegar and boil a quarter 
of an hour. 

Or pack the lemons in a jar, set 
the jar in boiling water and boil for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Let the 
jar stand in a warm place stirring 
daily for several weeks. Finally, 
bring to a boil, pack in small jars or 
bottles and seal. 

Or to pickle whole lemons, select 
small fruit and slit the rinds as if to 
take off the peel in quarters, but do 
not cut through the pulp. Cover the 
lemons vidth salt, and pack it down 
hard to fill these slits. Pack them on 
end in a dripping pan three or four 
days, or until the salt melts, and let 
them stand, turning them end for end 
in the liquor two or three times a 
day imtil the rinds are tender. To 
this liquor add sufficient spiced vine- 
gar to cover the lemons. Pack them 
in jars with mustard seed and garlic. 
Cover with any prepared pickling 
liquid and seal. 

Or pare a dozen lemons very thin, 
taking off so little of the outer por- 
tion of the rind that the white will 
not be seen. Cut a gash in each end 
and rub them thoroughly with salt, 
rubbing it into the gashes. Cover 
with salt and let stand for three or 
four days. As the salt dissolves rub 
more into them and especially fill the 
gashes at the end. Now cover with 
dry salt, place them in a very slow 
oven with a dozen cloves of garlic and 
half a teacupful -of scraped horse- 
radish, and let them dry, taking care 
that they are not burned, or even 
browned. They should be thoroughly 
dried out — as dry as paper. Now 
pour over them a gallon of spiced 
pickling liquid cold. Place the whole 
in a suitable jar, and let stand in a 
warm place for two or three weeks, 
stirring or shaking frequently. Shake 
well and strain off a little of the 
liquid from time to time for table use 



in soups and sauces. Shred the lem- 
ons fine when required for made 
dishes, soups, sauces, etc. 

Pickled Peaches. — Look over the 
peaches carefuUy, selecting the ripe 
fruit and discarding all that are soft 
or specked. Rub clean with a soft, 
dry cloth and stick into each large 
peach 4 or 5 cloves without the heads, 
and into each small one 2 or 3 cloves. 
Place in a preserving kettle 1 gallon 
of vinegar. Stir in 6 pounds of brown 
sugar and bring to a boil, removing 
the scirai as fast as it appears. Pack 
the peaches in suitable bottles or 
jars. Pour the boiling sirup over 
them scalding hot and cover tightly. 
Let stand overnight, pour off the 
sirup once more, bring to a boll and 
again pour over the peaches. Do this 
for three or four days. Finally, pack 
in cans or bottles and seal while hot. 

Or for sweet-pickled peaches, allow 
i pound of sugar by weight to each 
pound of fruit. Put the sugar and 
peaches in layers in a preserving ket- 
tle and bring to a boil. Add for each 
6 pounds of fruit a pint of vinegar 
and in the vinegar place a thin mus- 
lin bag containing a tablespoonful 
each of cinnamon, cloves, and mace. 
Pour the spiced vinegar into the 
peaches and sirup with the bag of 
spices, and boU for not more than 
five minutes. Take out the peaches 
with a skimmer, lay them on blotters 
to cool and continue boiling the sirup 
until it thickens. Pack the peaches 
in jars, fill to overflowing with boil- 
ing sirup, and seal at once. 

Or for sour pickled peaches, select 
full-grown peaches before they are 
ripe. Salt them in strong brine for 
a week or two, change the brine every 
two or iiiree days, dry them on a 
cloth strainer, wipe them with a cloth 
and cover with hot, spiced, pickling 
liquid containing garlic, mustard, gin- 
ger, cloves, and the like. Seal and 
store for four or five months before 
bringing them to the table. 

Pickled Pears. — The above recipes 
for pickled peaches may also be ap- 
plied to pickled pears. 

Or pack in a preserving kettle in 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



581 



alternate layers 10 pounds of ripe 
pears and 3 pounds of coffee sugar. 
Poijr over them 1 quart of vinegar 
containing, in a thin muslin bag, 1 
ounce of cinnamon, 1 ounce of cloves, 
i ounce of mace. Slice and stir in i 
ounces" of citron and boil imtll the 
pears are tender. Take out the pears 
with a skimmer, boil the sirup half 
an hour or more imtil it is thick. Fill 
the jars or cans to overflowing and 
seal at once. 

Or prepare a sirup of IJ pints of 
vinegar and 3 pounds of fine sugar. 
Bring this to a boil. Place in a pre- 
serving kettle a peck of ripe fruit, 
peeled and cored, pour the sirup over 
it and boil until the fruit is tender, 
but not soft. Remove the fruit with 
the skimmer and pack it in jars. 
Preserve the sirup, which may be 
used again, and prepare a fresh sirup 
of IJ pints of vinegar and 2 pounds 
of coffee sugar. Place ;n this sirup 
a thin muslin bag containing an ounce 
each of any kind of mixed spices 
preferred. Bring to a boil, fill the 
jars to overflowing, and seal. 

Pickled Cherries. — Fill a wide- 
mouthed glass bottle or jar with nice 
firm and medium ripe cherries. Add 
2 tablespoonfuls of salt, and fill the 
jars with cold vinegar. Seal and let 
stand six or eight weeks before using. 

Pickled Peppers. — Soak fresh bell 
peppers, either green or red, in strong 
brine for a week or two, changing 
every two or three days. Pack in 
suitable jars and cover with cold 
vinegar. The seeds tend to make the 
peppers very strong, and may be re- 
moved if less strength is desired. A 
few peppers added to pickled cucum- 
bers improves them very much, as the 
heat of the peppers is taken out by 
the vinegar and becomes blended with 
the cucumbers, giving them an agree- 
able flavor. 

Pickled Beets. — Select small red 
beets having the roots on and wash 
them carefully so as not to break the 
roots or the skin. Place in a large 
kettle, cover with plenty of water and 
boil three or four hours. Take them 
up carefully with a skimmer so as not 



to break the skins. Place them on a 
cloth strainer to cool and dry. When 
cold, quarter them or pack them in 
suitable jars, cover with pure or 
pickled cold vinegar, and seal so as 
to exclude the air. If not sealed it 
will be necessary to pour off the vine- 
gar occasionally, bring it t9 a boil 
and pour it scalding hot over the 
beets. 

Or after the beets have been boiled, 
pack them in jars and cover with hot 
brine strong enough to float an egg. 
When cool put the jars in a sauce- 
pan full of cold water, place it on 
the stove, and boil half an hour or 
more. Seal air tight while hot and 
store in a cool place. 

Nasturtiums. — Collect the seeds 
while young and tender. Place them 
in a double boiler, cover with strong 
cold brine. Let stand for an hour, 

" then place on the stove and bring to 
tt boil. When they boil up take them 
out of the skimmer, put them into a 
suitable jar, and cover them with 
boiling hot spiced pickling liquid. 

Or have at hand a jar of sweetened 
spice vinegar and into this drop nas- 
turtium seeds picked as they accu- 
mulate during the season before they 
become hard and woody. They make 
an excellent substitute for capers and 
an agreeable addition to salads or 
sandwiches. 
Pickled Barberries. — ^To pickle bar- 

. berries for a garnish, especially for 
cold meats, salads, and the like, se- 
lect the large, firm bunches of berries 
of a fine deep red. Remove the leaves 
and the discolored berries. Place 
them in jars and cover with brine 
strong enough to float an egg. Seal 
to exclude the air, or cover with par- 
affin or waxed paper. If any scum 
or mold appears upon the surface 
pour out the barberries on a cloth 
strainer, dry them between two 
cloths, and cover them with fresh 
brine. 

To Pickle Mushrooms. — Select 
small button mushrooms, remove the 
stems, rub off the skins with a piece 
of flannel moistened in salt water and 
throw them into weak brine of about 



582 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



a cupful of salt to a gallon of water. 
Let stand three or four hours. Pour 
them out on a cloth strainer to drain 
and dry. 

Or after cleaning them with salt 
and water, put them over a slow fire 
until the juice from them has dis- 
solved the salt. Then pour them out 
to drain on a cloth strainer. Finally, 
pack in suitable jars or bottles and 
cover with spiced pickling liquid, 
scalding hot, or place the mushrooms 
in the spiced liquid and boil for ten 
minutes. Pack in bottles, cover with 
the scalding liquid. Let stand until 
cold, and seal. 

Pickled Helens. — Take hard musk- 
melons that are late in ripening, cut 
out a circular piece around the stem 
about 3 inches across and through 
this opening remove the seeds and 
scrape out any part that may be soft 
or ripe. Pack the melons in a wood- 
en tub, fill them inside, and cover 
them with salt and let stand until the 
salt is melted. Remove them from 
the salt, rmse with pure water and 
fill with a mixture of chopped pep- 
pers and onions with a few shallots, 
a little garlic, and a quantity of 
bruised mustard seed. Close the 
opening with the plug, and fasten it 
with thread or with skewers made of 
toothpicks. Pack the melons in a tub 
or earthen jar and cover with spiced 
pickling liquid boiling hot. Remove 
and scald the spiced liquid every day 
for four or five days, pour it back 
over the melons, and finally seal up 
the jars. 

Or stuff the melons with a picca- 
lilli or chowchow or any sort of 
mixed pickles, as desired. 

Pickled Citron. — Cut the citron 
into inch cubes, cover with weak 
brine. Let stand twenty-four hours 
and pour out on a cloth strainer to 
dry. For every gallon of spiced vine- 
gar add 4 ounces of coffee sugar, 
bring to a boU and pour over the 
citron boiling hot. Let stand three 
or four days, each day pouring off the 
pickling liquid from the citron, scald- 
ing it and pouring it back. Finally, 
bring the whole to a boil and cook 



until the citron is very tender. Pack 
in suitable jars. Seal and store in a 
cool, dry place. 

Peach Mangoes. — Select large free- 
stone peaches and take out the stone 
through a slit in the side. Cover 
with weak brine scalding hot. Let 
stand until cool enough to handle. 
Lift out the peaches on a cloth 
strainer, and wipe dry with a clean, 
soft cloth. Now fiU the cavity with 
mixed spices to taste, as white mus- 
tard seed, cloves, mace, cinnamon, 
grated horse-radish, ginger root, etc., 
softened by placing all together in a 
thin muslin bag and immersing for a 
few minutes in boiling water. Re- 
move the bag from the water, let the 
spices drip dry, fill the peaches, sew 
them up, pack them in jars, and fill 
to overflowing with a scalding hot 
sirup made of 1 pint of sugar in 3 
pints of vinegar. Seal while hot. Let 
stand a week or two before bringing 
to the table. 

Tomato Catsup. — Wash J bushel 
fine ripe red tomatoes. Quarter them, 
place them in a preserving kettle, 
and bring them to a boil. Remove 
from the fire and let cool until they 
win bear the hands. Then rub them 
through a wire sieve and add to the 
strained juice 2 teacupfuls of salt, 2 
teacupfuls of mixed spices, 1 quart 
of vinegar. Boil over a slow fire for 
an hour or more, stirring constantly 
to prevent burning. Fill the bottles 
to overflowing with the hot liquid 
and seal at once. Thin for use, if 
necessary, with a little vinegar. Wrap 
in colored paper to exclude the light. 

Or boil the tomatoes until they are 
soft. Squeeze them through a fine 
sieve, and to the juice add 1 pint of 
salt, 1 ounce of Cayenne pepper^ a 
few cloves of garlic or shallots. Mix 
and boil until reduced one half. Bot- 
tle and seal. 

Or cut up the tomatoes, place 
them in a preserving kettle in layers 
sprinkled with salt, using about 2 
teacupifuls of salt to i bushel of fruit. 
Let stand three or four hours before 
boiling. Strain and add to the juice 
horse-radish, onions, or garlic, mus- 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



583 



tard seed, and mixed spices. Let 
stand twenty-four hours or more. 
Boil down to the right consistency. 
Bottle and seal. 

Select firm, ripe tomatoes, gash 
them on two or three sides and place 
them in a porcelain saucepan. Boil 
them to a pulp. Rub the pulp 
through a colander or coarse sieve, 
and afterwards through a hair or 
other fine sieve, and for each peck of 
fruit add 1 ounce of salt, 1 table- 
spoonful of black pepper, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of Cayenne, 1 ounce of mace, 1 
ounce of ground cloves, 6 ounces of 
ground mustard and 1 ounce each of 
celery seed and mustard seed tied in 
a cheese-cloth bag. BoU the whole 
for four or five hours, stirring fre- 
quently, especially toward the last. 
When the catsup is of the right con- 
sistency, remove from the fire and let 
stand overnight to cool. For each 
peck of fruit stir in 1 pint of pure 
white wine or cider vinegar. Remove 
the bag of celery and mustard seed. 
Bottle and cork tightly. Store in a 
cool, dark place. 

Or cut the tomatoes in half and 
boU to a pulp. Press through a 
coarse, and afterwards a fine sieve, 
and for each peck of fruit add sea- 
soning as.foUows: J ounce of Cayenne 
pepper, i ounce of black pepper, J 
ounce each of mace, allspice, cloves, 
2 ounces of mustard. Salt to taste 
and add ginger or essence of celery 
if desired. BoU as above. When cool, 
stir in 1 pint of vinegar for each peck 
of fruit. Bottle and seal as above. 

Or cut the tomatoes into quarters, 
place them in a porcelain saucepan 
and boil to a pulp. Run through a 
coarse, and afterwards a fine sieve, 
and boU down for three or four 
hours, or until as thick as jelly, stir- 
ring constantly especially toward the 
last to prevent burning. Stir in for 
each peck of fruit, 3 ounces of salt, 3 
drams of allspice, | ounce of yellow 
mustard, IJ ounces of black pepper, 4 
drams of cloves, J ounce of Cayenne 
pepper, 2 quarts of pure white-wine 
or cider vinegar. Stir in the ground 
spices and the vinegar. Bring the 



whole to a boil for not more than five 
minutes and bottle when cold. 

Canning Tomatoes. — Select firm, 
ripe tomatoes, place them in a colan- 
der and dip them into boiling water 
just long enough to loosen the skin. 
Remove from the water, place them 
where they will drain, and carefully 
pull off the skin without injuring the 
fruit. Once more place in colander 
to drain and pack carefully in large 
glass jars or cans as full as they will 
hold. Place these in hot water, bring 
to a boil and seal. 

Or if tin cans are used, first apply 
with a soft brush fresh butter or un- 
salted lard to the inside of the can 
and its cover. This will prevent the 
fruit acid from attacking the tin and 
forming a poisonous compound. Seal 
with a bit of solder or putty, or lay 
over the top a cloth dampened with al- 
cohol, run parafBn over this and draw 
over the top a piece of cotton batting. 

Currant Catsup. — Pick over care- 
fully 3 pounds of ripe red currants 
and place them in a preserving kettle 
with j of a pound of granulated 
sugar. Cook until of the consistency 
of thick cream. Boil in a separate 
saucepan for not more than five min- 
utes i of a pint of vinegar, in which 
place a muslin bag containing J table- 
spoonful of ground pepper, and any 
other spices desired. Pour the spiced 
vinegar into the currants and sugar 
and bottle for use. 

Mushroom Catsup. — There is a 
prejudice against mushrooms due to 
the existence of certain poisonous 
species. Those who are not thor- 
oughly conversant with the difference 
between the edible and poisonous va- 
rieties should buy mushrooms from a 
reliable dealer or buy the spawn and 
grow the mushrooms rather than at- 
tempt to gather the native varieties 
growing wild. As there is a possibil- 
ity that poisonous mushrooms may be 
offered for sale by careless or igno- 
rant persons, we give the following 
rules for distinguishing mushrooms 
from poisonous toadstools. The great- 
est caution should, however, be used 
where there is the slightest doubt, as 



584 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



no matter how good a. rule may be, 
there can be no assurance that it will 
be understood or intelligently applied 
by an inexperienced person. 

As a rule, the false mushrooms 
grow in tufts or clusters in woods or 
on the stumps of trees. They are 
likely to have a cap covered with 
warts or fragments of membrane 
growing on the upper surface, and to 
be heavy and irregular in shape. 
They have a disagreeable taste, like 
alum, turn blue when cut, are moist 
on top and usually of a rose or orange 
color. 

The true mushroom, on the other 
hand, has under parts or giUs of a 
pinky red, changing to a liver color. 
The flesh is pure white, and the stem 
is long, white, and round. 

The best rule is to sprinkle a little 
salt on the spongy parts or gills of 
one of the mushrooms and let it stand 
for some minutes. Be sure to allow 
plenty of time. If it turns yellow the 
mushrooms are poisonous. If black, 
they are edible. 

To make mushroom catsup pack 2 
pounds of mushrooms in layers with 
1 pound of salt in a saucepan, and let 
stand until the salt is fully dissolved. 
Squeeze through cheese cloth and add 
to the juice 3 ounces of white pepper, 
J ounce of cloves, or any other mixed 
spices desired. Boil with gentle heat 
to the consistency desired. Strain 
and bottle for use. Add more salt to 
the mushrooms from which the juice 
has been strained, and if sufScient 
juice has been left in them to dis- 
solve the salt it may be used to make 
an inferior quality of catsup. 

Or add to each pound of mush- 
rooms i pound of salt. Let them 
stand for four days stirring them oc- 
casionally. Pour them into a colan- 
der to drain and preserve the juice. 
Now add a little cold water to the 
mushrooms and let them boil half an 
hour or more over a slow fiVe. 
Squeeze them through cheese cloth. 
Now mix both liquors. Add any de- 
sired mixture of spices. Boil not 
over five minutes. Seal and bottle 
for use. 



Or squeeze out the juice in a press 
and to each gallon of juice add 1 
pound of salt, IJ ounces of shallots, 
and any desired mixture of spices to 
the amount of four to six ounces all 
told. Boil for one hour or until of 
the desired consistency. Strain and 
bottle for use. 

To preserve mushroom catsup in 
its full strength it is necessary to re- 
boil it at intervals of a month or six 
weeks, adding fresh spices. By these 
means it can be kept good and fresh 
the year round. 

To Preserve UnshTooms. — Select 
small mushrooms, trim them and rub 
them clean with a soft flannel cloth. 
Drop them inunediately into cold 
water to preserve their color. Place 
them in a saucepan and to each quart 
of mushrooms add 3 ounces of but- 
ter, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, J teaspoon- 
ful of Cayenne, i teaspoonful of 
mace, and cook until tender. Pour 
them into a colander to drain. When 
cold, pack them in glass jelly tum- 
blers or fruit jars and pour clarified 
mutton suet or butter over them. Lay 
over this a thickness of cloth dipped 
in alcohol and tie over the top a layer 
of cotton batting. 

Or trim and clean the mushrooms, 
peel off the skin and dry them in a 
slow oven. Tie up tightly in paper 
bags and hang up in a dry place. 
They will resume their natural size 
when cooked. 

Or season mushrooms with onion, 
cloves, pepper, mace, or otherwise to 
taste. Slice, and dry in a slow oven. 
Rub to a powder and preserve in 
tightly stoppered jars or bottles. 

Preserving Olives. — After opening 
a bottle of olives, if the remainder 
are not required for immediate use, 
pour off the liquid and cover with 
olive OH. This will keep the olives 
good and fresh for several weeks. 

Walnut Catsup. — Pick young green 
walnuts about the first week in July, 
as for pickled walnuts, and squeeze 
the juice out of them under a press. 
Or run them through two or three 
times with a hatpin. Crush them 
with a wooden maUet, place in a keg 



VINEGAR, PICKLES, AND PICKLING 



585 



or jar throwing in a handful of salt 
for each two dozen walnuts. Cover 
with water and let stand two weeks 
or more, stirring frequently. Squeeze 
out the liquor through cheese cloth 
into a preserving kettle. Moisten the 
walnuts with hoUing hot vinegar and 
mash them to a pulpy mass. Pour 
on additional hot vinegar to cover 
them. Mix and squeeze out the vine- 
gar into the juice and brine in a pre- 
serving kettle. Add to each gallon 
of juice 12 or 14 ounces of mixed 
spices as desired, bruising the whole 
spices in a mortar, or placing the 
ground spices in a thin muslin bag. 
Flavor with Cayenne, paprika, garlic, 
or shallots as desired, and boil one 
hour or more, or imtil reduced about 
one half. Bottle and seal when cold. 

Or bring the walnut juice to a boil 
and skim until it is clear. For each 
quart of walnut juice add i pound 
of anchovies, i poimd of shallots and 
1 or 2 ounces of mixed spices. Flavor 
with garlic, Cayenne, paprika, celery, 
etc., as desired. Simmer over a. slow 
fire about twenty minutes, salt to 
taste. Strain through cheese cloth. 
Bottle and seal when cold. This cat- 
sup will keep indefinitely and will not 
be at its best under one year after it 
has been made. 

Or crush the green walnut shells 
and to each J peck of shells, dry 
measure, add 1 quart of salt. Mix 
and let stand a week or ten days. 
Squeeze out the juice. Add to each 
gallon of juice about 12 ounces of 
mixed spices, flavoring with garlic, 
etc., if desired, and boil down about 
one half. Bottle when cold. 

Or take 1 gallon of spiced vinegar 
in which walnuts have been pickled 
for six months or a year. Add J 
pound of anchovies, 1 teaspoonful of 
Cayenne. Boil down one half and 
bottle when cold. Thus the spiced 
vinegar from the pickled walnuts may 
be turned into good catsup after the 
walnuts have been used. 

Camp Catsup. — A catsup mixed 
with stale beer and various spices is 
often put up and sold under this 
name for sea stores or persons going 



on exploring and other expeditions 
and likely to be gone a long time. It 
will keep under all conditions for 
many years. 

To 1 gallon of strong stale beer 
add 1 pound of anchovies washed 
and cleaned, 1 quart of mushrooms, 
first rubbing off the skins with salt 
and water, 1 pound of shallots, and 
8 or 10 ounces of mixed spices. Boil 
down one half over a slow fire. Strain 
through cheese cloth and bottle when 
cold. 

Or to 1 gallon of strong stale beer 
add 3 quarts of vinegar, IJ pounds 
of cleaned and washed anchovies, IJ 
pound of shallots, 8 or 10 ounces of 
mixed spices, and 2 quarts of mush- 
rooms. Boil down one half and bot- 
tle when cold. 

Or mix 2 quarts of stale beer to 1 
quart of white wine or white-wine 
vinegar. Add J pound of anchovies, 
4 ounces of peeled shallots, 4 ounces 
of mixed spices. Let stand in a warm 
place two or three weeks, stirring 
constantly. Bring to a boil and bot- 
tle when cold. 

Oyster Catsup. — Squeeze through a 
sieve 1 pint of oysters with the juice. 
Add 1 pint of white wine or sherry, 
and salt to taste. Add 2 or 3 ounces 
of mixed spices. Flavor with garlic, 
celery, etc., as desired. SimmeA: fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. Strain and 
bottle when cold. 

Pepper Catsup. — Place in a preserv- 
ing kettle about 25 large red bell 
peppers without removing the seeds. 
Add 1 pint of vinegar and boil untU 
tender, stirring constantly. Rub the 
whole through a sieve. Set aside the 
juice. Pour over the pulp another 
pint of vinegar with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of brown sugar, and 2 or 3 oimces of 
mixed spices. Stir all together and 
boil down one half. Strain through 
cheese cloth and bottle when cold. 

Gooseberry Catsup. — Select goose- 
berries that are ripe but ' not soft, 
pick them over carefully, and remove 
the stems and blossoms with a pair 
of small scissors. To each quart of 
gooseberries add 1 pound of brown 
sugar and 1 ounce of mixed spices. 



586 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Place in a preserving kettle and boil 
to a soft pulp or for about 2 or 3 
hours stirring constantly. Add for 
each quart of gooseberries i pint of 
vinegar. Bring to a boil. Fill bot- 
tles to overflowing and seal while 
scalding hot. 

Grape Catsup. — Take grapes that 
are ripe but not soft. Pick them over 
carefully and add i by weight of 
sugar and to 5 pound of grapes 1 
pint of vinegar, 3 or 3 ounces of 
mixed spices, and salt to taste. BoU 
imtil it thickens. Bottle when cold. 

To Preserve Horse-Radish. — Slice 
the horse-radish in November and 
December about -^ of an inch thick. 
Place it in a tin pan, cover and set it 
in a warm place near the stove to 
dry; but do not heat it too much, as 
otherwise it will lose its flavor. When 
bone dry grind it in a mortar, place 
it in suitable jars or bottles, and seal 
for use. 

Or grate the green roots, cover 
with strong vinegar. Bottle, seal, 
and store in a cool place. 

To Preserve Tomatoes for Soup. — 
Select all the small cracked or faulty- 
shaped ripe tomatoes that are un- 
marketable, wash, trim, and cut them 
up unpeeled in a preserving kettle. 
Stew them well, grind them through a 
flour sieve so as to remove the seeds 
and skins, reheat and can for soup 
stock. 

Or take the large, sound, ripe to- 
matoes, wash and drain, halve them 
crosswise, and pack them with the 
cut side up between layers of salt in 
a jar or wooden firkin. Let stand 
twenty-four hours or until the salt 
melts. Now pour off and discard the 
brine and seeds that escape with it. 
Boil the tomatoes to a pulp, and rub 
through a flour sieve. Season with 
Cayenne pepper or paprika, salt to 
taste and boil to the consistency of 
cream, stirring briskly. Pour out to 
a depth of about i inch on large plat- 
ters, and let dry in the sun or a 
slow oven. Before it dries mark in 
3-inch squares with a sharp knife and 
when fully dry pack tightly in hot, 
dry glass jars. Seal closely to ex- 



clude the air, and store In a dry place. 
One of these squares will season 2 or 
3 quarts of soup, or enough for a 
large family. 

Or the squares may be soaked in 
warm water and stewed with bread 
crumbs as tomato sauce. 

Or peel large, ripe tomatoes, re- 
move the seeds, pack them in a pre- 
serving can with pepper and salt. 
Let stand twenty-four hours or untU 
the salt is melted, and boU for an 
hour or more, stirring frequently. 
Pour into small jars or bottles, as it 
wiU not keep well after being opened, 
and seal when cold. 

Curry Powder. — To make curry 
powder mix together the required 
spices, which should be of the best 
quality, and weE dried in a slow oven. 
Grind them to powder in a mortar. 
Pack in small bottles, and seal for 
use. 

Or if preferred, the required spices 
may be mixed whole in the small pep- 
per grinders which are to be had for 
table use, and the powder may be 
freshly ground as required. 

To use curry powder, mi-y 1 table- 
spoonful of the powder with 1 of 
flour. Add 1 cupful of fresh mUk. 
Season with salt and lemon juice, 
and pour into soup or stews and the 
like fifteen or twenty minutes before 
serving. 

The following proportions are rec- 
ommended: 4 ounces of turmeric, 4 
ounces of coriander, 4 ounces of black 
pepper, 3 ounces of fenugreek, 2 
ounces of ginger, I ounce of cummin 
seed, 1 ounce of ground rice, J oimce 
of cardemoms, i ounce of paprika. 

Or 4 oimces of turmeric, 4 oimces 
of coriander seed, 2J ounces of pi- 
mento, 1 ounce of ginger, i ounce of 
cinnamon, J ounce of mace, i ounce 
of cloves, 3 drams of cummin seed, 

1 ounce of cardemom, 1 ounce of 
Cayenne. 

Or 2 ounces of turmeric, 5 ounces 
of coriander, i ounce of paprika, 2 
ounces of pimento, J ounce of cloves, 

2 ounces of cinnamon, 1 ounce of 
ginger, IJ ounces of cummin, 1 ounce 
of shallots. 



CHAPTER XXllI 

PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 

FERMENTATION— FRESH MEAT AND FISH— SALTING AND PICKLING 
MEAT— CURING HAMS, TONGUES, AND BACON— MAKING AND 
KEEPING SAUSAGE— PRESERVATION OF COOKED MEAT— TRY- 
ING OUT AND STORING LARD— PRESERVING, TESTING, AND 
PACKING EGGS — STORING AND PRESERVING VEGETABLES, 
FRUIT, NUTS, AND HERBS 



FEBmSNTATION 

Fermentation in the widest sense 
of the term includes all forms of de- 
composition in both vegetable and 
animal substances when exposed to 
air and moisture at temperatures be- 
tween the freezing and boiling point 
of water. But in common language, 
the word fermentation is more often 
confined to those processes by which 
vegetable juices are transformed into 
alcoholic liquors. These processes, 
however, are entirely similar to pu- 
trefaction, or the decomposition of 
organic matter which sets free foul- 
smelling gases; and decay, or the 
change by which without moisture, 
the trunk of a tree molders into dust. 
Fermentation does not ordinarily take 
place much below 32° P. or much above 
140° F. It usually causes liquids to 
rise in temperature and to give off 
gases with considerable internal mo- 
tion, to become turbid, to form a 
scum and to deposit a sediment. 

Among the useful results of fer- 
mentation are the raising of bread 
with yeast; the preparation of al- 
coholic beverages and certain food 
products, as sauerkraut; the curdling 
of milk by means of rennet to form 
cheese; the manufacture of vinegar, 
etc. 

Among the injurious results of fer- 
mentation are the souring of milk 
and vegetables, the putrefaction of 



meat, the becoming rancid of fats 
and the decay of articles of wood or 
textile fabrics. 

Fermentation is caused by the vital 
action of microscopic plants, the 
germs of which may be present in the 
fermenting substance, or may be de- 
posited on their surface from the air 
or from contact with water or other 
substances containing them. Or they 
may be introduced intentionally, as 
when yeast is used for brewing, or 
for making vinegar or bread. These 
small plants feed upon fermentable 
substances and bring about various 
chemical changes. Thus the subject 
of fermentation has two phases: i.e., 
(1) how to induce those forms of fer- 
mentation that are useful, and (2) how 
to prevent those that are injurious. 

The promotion of fermentation 
falls under such various subjects as 
fermented beverages, the making of 
vinegar, cheese, bread, etc. The pre- 
vention of fermentation falls under 
such subjects as the preservation of 
food, the preservation of timber, etc. 

As fermentation occurs from the 
presence and development of germs, 
it is evident that its prevention de- 
pends upon the destruction of any 
germs that are present, and keeping 
away others, or the removal of con- 
ditions favorable to germ life. Hence, 
in general, fermentation and putre- 
faction may be prevented by drying 
heat; by cooling below the point at 



587 



588 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



which fermentation takes place; by 
heating or cooking substances to a 
point sufficient to kill the germs pres- 
ent, and then hermetically sealing 
them to exclude others; and 1)7 the 
employment of various antiseptics, as 
alcohol, common salt, saltpeter, sugar, 
sirup, smoke, borax, and many other 
substances. 

Putrefaction. — This change is a 
decomposition of animal or vegetable 
substances with the liberation of ill- 
smelling gases. It can only take 
place at a temperature between the 
freezing point of water (33° F. and 
140° F.), in the presence of moisture 
and after exposure to the air. Gen- 
erally speaking, the more moisture 
and the greater warmth present, the 
more rapid is the process. The germs 
of the bacteria which cause putrefac- 
tion are heavier than the germs of 
yeast and mold, and hence do not 
float in equal numbers, as dust in dry 
air. They are more often communi- 
cated by contact with water or moist 
surfaces. For this reason in dry cli- 
mates meats and vegetables may be 
preserved simply by drying or curing 
them by exposure to sunlight. But 
it is well known that if these sub- 
stances are left out after the dew 
falls, and allowed to become mois- 
tened, they may be covered with a 
coating of mold. Most of the bac- 
teria that cause putrefaction are 
killed by exposure to a temperature 
of 140° F. for a number of hours; to 
a temperature of 212° F., the boiling 
point of water, for ten to fifteen min- 
utes; or to a temperature of 215° F. 
for 4 or 5 minutes. The activity of 
these bacteria ceases at the freezing 
point, but they cannot be killed by 
freezing, and again become active 
when warmed to a temperature of 
40° F. Hence, in general terms, boil- 
ing in water kills bacteria and freez- 
ing suspends their activity. 

FBESH MEAT ATStD FISH 

To Keep Fresh Meat. — Refrigera- 
tion in a dry, well-ventilated air 
chamber cooled to a temperature of 



40° F. or lower by means of ice, is 
the best means of preserving fresh 
meat in summer or in warm climates. 
For this purpose ice may be stored 
in northern climates in homemade ice 
houses, and utilized by means of 
homemade refrigerators as elsewhere 
recommended. 

If ice houses are not available, 
fresh meat may be kept for several 
days by the use of sour milk, vinegar, 
charcoal, or borax, or by immersing 
it in cold running water, or by means 
of a mixture of salt, sugar, and salt- 
peter. 

Or hang up joints of meat, if not 
required for immediate use in any 
dry, shady place where there is good 
ventilation. They will keep fresh 
from 2 to 4 days, and will become 
more tender and digestible by hang- 
ing. But in all cases, hang them with 
the cut end up and knuckle down- 
ward, or the reverse of the usual way. 
Thus the blood remains in the meat 
and keeps it sweet and juicy. In 
summer, if the weather is dry, lamb 
and veal will keep 2 days, and beef 
and mutton 3 to 4 days. In cold 
weather, mutton may be kept for 
twice that length of time. 

Or if running water is available 
from a spring or otherwise, provide 
a covered box or tub in a shady place, 
into and out of which the water can 
flow. Immerse the meat in this. If 
fresh it will sink of its own weight. 
Look at it two or three times a day 
and as soon as it commences to rise 
from the bottom, it must be used. 
The outside will be somewhat whit- 
ened, but the flavor will be uninjured. 
The meat will be sound and tender 
after 3 or 4 days in hot summer 
weather, and may then be boiled or 
roasted. 

Or pieces of fresh meat may be 
placed in large stone jars and cov- 
ered with skimmed milk, sour milk, 
or buttermilk. They must be weight- 
ed with a clean stone to keep the 
meat under the surface of the liquid, 
and the jar placed in a cold cellar or 
in the running water from a spring. 
It is not necessary to remove tb* 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 589 



bone or fat. Thus fresh meat can be 
preserved for a week or 10 days. The 
milk can afterwards be fed to pigs. 
Before cooking, the meat should be 
washed thoroughly in clear water and 
afterwards soaked 3 to S minutes in 
water containing about one table- 
spoonful of cooking soda to the gal- 
lon. This neutralizes the acid of the 
milk and makes the meat more 
tender. 

Or fresh meat may be preserved 
by soaking it for 3 to 5 minutes in 
a solution of one tablespoonful of 
borax to a gallon of water, or by rub- 
bing it with powdered borax dry. 
Rinse with clear water when required 
for use. 

Or trim the meat carefully with a 
knife, removing any parts that seem 
likely to taint, and wrap it up with 
a cloth moistened with vinegar, or 
equal parts of vinegar and water. 
The acid vapor drives away flies and 
the moisture, by evaporation, keeps 
it cold. 

Or rub meat thoroughly with fresh 
powdered charcoal, which has power- 
ful antiseptic properties. It can be 
readily rinsed off with clear water. 

Or cut the meat in pieces, not ex- 
ceeding 3 or 3 pounds in weight, and 
pack them down between layers of 
dry corn meal or bran. Or cover 
with corn meal or bran as thickly as 
possible and hang in some shady place 
where there is a free circulation of 
air. 

Or when meat can no longer be 
preserved by any of these methods 
and more is on hand than can be im- 
mediately consumed, cook it all, and 
each day place it on the stove and 
bring it to a temperature equal to 
the boiling point of water. Thus the 
germs of putrefaction will be killed 
and the process will be arrested from 
day to day. 

Or fresh meat may be preserved in 
the following manner: by laying it 
down in an earthenware jar and 
sprinkling with a mixture of salt, 
sugar, and saltpeter. If the meat is 
fresh killed, iirst hang it up or lay it 
on slats overnight to drain it free 



from blood. Then cut it up in readi- 
ness for the frying pan or the ta- 
ble, separating and trimming chops, 
steaks, scollops, etc. For every pound 
of meat, measure IJ teaspoonfuls 
each of salt and sugar, J teaspoonful 
of saltpeter, and J teaspoonful of 
black or white pepper. These should 
be dry, mixed, and reduced to pow- 
der in a mortar. Now sprinkle the 
bottom of the jar with a thin layer 
of this mixture and lay down a. layer 
of steak or chops of uniform thick- 
ness, packing tightly to cover the 
bottom of the jar. Sprinkle over 
this the mixture of antiseptics so as 
to cover the surface lightly or about 
the same as when seasoning for the 
table. Add another layer of meat, 
and so on, imtil the jar is full. Cover 
the top of the jar with a layer of 
cotton batting wet in a solution of 
the same mixture of antiseptics in 
water. Put on the lid of the jar 
tightly and set it in a cellar, spring 
house, or other cold place. When the 
meat is required for use, rinse and 
scald it. Soak the cotton batting in 
the covering solution of antiseptics 
and pack it down closely over tne 
meat as before. 

Or the top of the jar may be cov- 
ered with a layer of melted taUow, 
lard, or parafBn to keep out the air. 

To Preserve Meat from Flies. — In 
addition to the germs that cause pu- 
trefaction, fresh meat is liable to be 
visited by flies and other insects for 
the purpose of depositing their eggs, 
and these will, in warm weather, 
quickly hatch and produce maggots. 
A cloth moistened with vinegar pre- 
vents the approach of insects. 

Or the meat may be rubbed vidth 
ground pepper or ginger. It may 
also be protected by a coating of 
waxed paper. To prepare this paper, 
melt with gentle heat 6 ounces of 
stearic acid. Stir in 3 ounces of car- 
bolic acid and add, in a thin stream, 
5 ounces of melted paraffin, stirring 
constantly. Remove from the fire 
and continue to stir until the mixture 
sets. Again melt with gentle heat, 
and apply with a brush to suitable 



590 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



paper. Wrap up the meat in the 
paper and seal. 

To Preserve Fish. — To keep fish 
fresh without ice for any length of 
time is very difficult. But if ice is 
not available, wash inside and out 
with a solution of equal parts of 
vinegar and water. Lay the fish on 
an earthenware platter on a stone 
floor. Place in the inside of each fish 
a cheese-cloth bag containing fresh 
charcoal in small lumps, about the 
size of small peas or large gravel 
stones, and wrap in a cloth moistened 
with vinegar, or equal parts of vine- 
gar and water, 'in very hot weather 
remove the cloth and bag of charcoal 
two or three times a day and dip the 
fish into cold salt water. Afterwards 
wrap up as before. 

Or if the fish shows signs of decay, 
immerse in a pickle of vinegar and 
water. 

To Sweeten Tainted Meat. — ^Apply 
a solution of chloride of soda by means 
of a soft clean brush or sponge. With 
this quickly wash over the tainted 
portions and rinse immediately with 
fresh water. Afterwards broil or 
roast the meat so as to expose the 
tainted portions to a high tempera- 
ture and char them with the heat. 

Or if they are to be boiled, place 
half a dozen lumps of charcoal, the 
size of an egg, in the water. 

Or place a quantity of pulverized 
charcoal in a cheese-cloth bag, and 
place these in the kettle. All odors 
will be absorbed by the charcoal and 
the meat will be sweet and clean. 

Or hang the meat on a nail in a 
box, or suspended inside of an in- 
verted barrel. Place beneath half a 
teacupful of table salt in an earthen- 
ware bowl and add by degrees 2 
ounces of sulphuric acid at the rate 
of i ounce each 15 or 20 minutes, un- 
til all has been added. The resulting 
fumes will disinfect anything with 
which they come in contact. But 
care must be taken not to breathe 
them. Afterwards rinse the meat 
well with a solution of 1 tablespoon- 
ful of baking soda or borax to a gal- 
lon of water. 



To keep Frozen Heat. — In cold 
climates and in winter, meat may be 
preserved indefinitely by allowing it 
to freeze. But it must not be per- 
mitted to freeze and thaw frequently, 
and must not be thawed out too 
quickly when required for use. To 
preserve meat by freezing, first ex- 
pose it to the weather until thor- 
oughly frozen through and through. 
Wrap in waxed paper or cover with 
a cloth coated with shellac or other 
varnish and pack in an ordinary flour 
barrel between layers of hay, straw, 
or excelsior, pressing the whole as 
tightly and soUdly as possible. Place 
the barrel in a bin or packing case, 
and surround it with a layer of S or 
6 inches of dry sawdust. 

To thaw frozen meat when re- 
quired for use, place it in a moder- 
ately warm room at a distance from 
the fire, and allow it to thaw gradu- 
aUy. 

Or better still, soak it 2 or 3 hours 
in cold water. 

If thawed too quickly it will be un- 
fit for use. 

SAITIITG A.TSJ) PIGELINO UKA.T 

Curing Meat. — Among the various 
methods of preserving beef, pork, 
mutton, and other meats for consid- 
erable periods of time, are drying, 
canning, pickling, and smoking. Dry- 
ing meat is practiced chiefly in hot 
climates and in localities where the 
air is free from moisture. It is ac- 
complished by cutting the meat into 
convenient pieces and exposing it 
to direct sunlight on suitable drying 
forms so arranged as to admit of a 
free circulation of aii". The canning 
of meat is similar in principle to the 
process of canning fruit and vegeta- 
bles. It consists in cooking the meat 
until tender, placing it while at the 
boiling point in sterilized jars, and 
sealing while hot so as to exclude the 
air. In addition, it is customary to 
pour over the meat the gravy or meat 
jeUy in which it has been cooked, in 
the same manner that sirup is poured 
over canned fruits. Pickling consists 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 591 



in inimersing the meat in a solution 
of antiseptics, usually salt, sugar, and 
saltpeter with soda or potash. Smok- 
ing is accomplished by suspending 
the meat in a suitable chamber, ex- 
posed to the fumes of smoldering 
corncobs, hickory or beech chips, saw- 
dust, or other substances. The anti- 
septic effect of smoking is due to 
impregnation with pyroligneous acid, 
an impure acetic acid which, together 
with tarry matter is contained in the 
smoke. The effect of smoking is 
therefore similar to that of rubbing 
fresh meat with vinegar, except that 
the admixture of tarry matter pre- 
vents the acetic acid from escaping 
by evaporation. 

Pickling Meat. — The points to be 
observed in pickling are cleanliness 
and sterilization. That is, aU foreign 
matter, as blood, dirt, and the like, 
should be removed from the meat, 
and the tubs or casks in wMch it is 
packed should be sterilized. In addi- 
tion, of course, the pickle must be 
sufBciently strong, and the meat fully 
covered with it and heavily weighted. 
If these precautions are observed, 
there is no reason why meat cannot 
be kept sweet the year round. 

Preparation of Meat for Pickling. 
— ^The beef, pork, or mutton carcass 
to be pickled should be carefully cut 
into strips of equal thickness, so that 
it can be packed tightly in tubs or 
casks in uniform layers. The carcass 
should be cut up as soon as the ani- 
mal heat is out of it, and the pieces 
to be pickled rubbed thoroughly with 
fine salt or powdered saltpeter or a 
mixture of these dried in a slow oven. 
After the salt and saltpeter have 
been well rubbed over the surface of 
the meat, sprinkle the pieces lightly 
with the same, and lay them on slats 
or boards slanted so that the blood 
wiU drain off, and let' them stand 
from 34 to 48 hours. This will re- 
move all the surface blood and leave 
the meat fresh and clean. When the 
necessary tubs or casks and pickling 
liquid are in readiness, rinse off the 
meat by dashing cold water over it 
from a dipper or pail. Wipe dry 



with a clean cloth. It will then be 
perfectly clean and ready to pack. 

Pickling Liquid for Meat. — A full 
barrel, if properly packed, will con- 
tain about 200 pounds of meat and 
will require from 6 to 8 gallons of 
pickle. The proportions of salt, salt- 
peter, and sugar recommended are 
about as numerous as the various au- 
thorities. But as these antiseptics do 
their work separately, the proportion 
is not essential, provided the pickle is 
strong enough. To prepare a stand- 
ard pickling liquid, place in a large 
kettle 8 gallons of pure soft cold 
water, to which add 14 to 16 pounds 
of pure seilt, 4 to 6 ounces of saltpe- 




"Pour Over it the Pickling Liquid. 



ter, about 6 pounds of good brown 
sugar, or about 3 pounds of the sugar 
and an equal bulk of good New Or- 
leans molasses. To which may be 
added 3 to 6 ounces of pure baking 
soda. Place the whole over a slow 
fire and bring to a boil with very gen- 
tle heat, removing the scum as it rises 
so as to have the liquid clear before 
it boUs. After the pickle has been 
clarified, remove from the fire. Cover 
to keep out the dust and let stand 
until it becomes cold. 
' To Pack Meat. — Scald thoroughly 
the inside of the tubs or barrels by 
pouring into them boiling water an^ 
washing down the sides with a swab 



592 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



of clean cloth tied to the end of a 
stick or clean mop handle. Cover the 
bottom of the cask with common salt 
i inch or more in depth. Pack the 
meat in layers as tightly as possible 
with common salt sprinkled between 
them and, when packed, pour over 
it the cold pickling liquid through 
cheese cloth imtU the barrel is full. 
Place on top a loose cover of wood, 
previously scalded, small enough to 
slip inside of the barrel and rest on 
the meat. Lay on this a stone or 
other heavy weight, to keep it below 
the surface of the pickle, and be sure 
that the pickle does not evaporate so 
as to leave the meat exposed to the 
air. 'Otherwise it will rust. The 
above is a general method to which 
the following favorite recipes may be 
added to show the manner in which 
the proportions may be changed ac- 
cording to the experience of different 
individuals. But aU of these are 
tested recipes. 

Fickle for Beef. — Dissolve in 8 gal- 
lons of soft water 20 pounds of 
coarse fine salt, 8 ounces of saltpeter, 
and 4 pounds of coarse brown sugar. 
Bring to a boil with very gentle heat, 
skimming constantly. This quantity 
is sufficient for one full barrel, or 200 
pounds of beef, if properly packed. 

Or prepare in a similar manner a 
pickle containing 14 pounds of coarse 
fine salt, 2 ounces of saltpeter, 2 
ounces of Cayenne pepper, 3 pints of 
New Orleans molasses, 2 pounds of 
brown sugar, and 12 gallons of soft 
water. 

Or 10 pounds of salt, 1 ounce of 
saltpeter, 2 pounds of brown sugar, 
and 6 gallons of soft water. 

Or 12 pounds of salt, 4 pounds of 
brovm sugar, 4 ounces of saltpeter, 8 
gallons of soft water, and 4 ounces 
of potash. 

Or 2 quarts of coarse fine salt 3J 
quarts of molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
saltpeter, and 8 gallons of soft water. 

Pickle for Beef. — Any of the above 
pickles may be used. 

Or for a full barrel of beef, or 200 
pounds, dissolve in 8 gallons of pure 
soft water 10 ounces of coarse fine 



salt, 4 ounces of saltpeter, 3 pints of 
New Orleans molasses, and 2 poimds 
of brown sugar. Place over a slow 
fire and bring to a boil, s kimmin g 
constantly. 

Or 16 pounds of salt, 2 pounds of 
sugar, 6 ounces of saltpeter, and 2 
ounces of baking soda in 8 gallons of 
soft water. 

Salting Meat. — Another method of 
curing meat is to rub or pack it with 
a mixture of salt, sugar, and salt- 
peter, but without water, thus allow- 
ing the meat to .form a brine by 
means of its own juices. If the brine 
which forms is allowed to drain from 
the meat, it is said to be dry-salted. 
Or if the meat is packed in a tight 
receptacle, and the brine is allowed 
to remain over it, it is said to be wet- 
salted. 

To salt beef or pork, first remove 
all bones. Rub the pieces, especially 
the cut surfaces, with a mixture of 
1 pound of salt, 1 ounce of saltpeter, 
and 1 ounce of sugar. Use pressure 
enough to rub the salt thoroughly 
into the grain of the meat. Let stand 
24 to 48 hours. Again rub with the 
same mixture, sprinkling common salt 
freely between the layers. Cover also 
the top thickly with salt, and put 
over all a heavy weight — ^the heavier 
the better. 

Or for i a barrel, or 100 pounds of 
beef, prepare a mixture of 4 quarts 
of coarse fine salt, 4 pounds of brown 
sugar, and 4 ounces of saltpeter. 
Rub thoroughly into the meat. Let 
stand 48 hours to drain, turning oc- 
casionally, and pack in layers imder 
a heavy weight, sprinkling the above 
mixture between but without the ad- 
dition of water. If a scum rises it 
should be taken off with a skimmer 
and a little fine salt sprinkled over 
the surface. 

Or for the same quantity of beef, 
prepare a mixture of 6 quarts of 
coarse fine salt, 4 pounds of light 
" A " or coffee sugar, 6 ounces of 
soda, and 4 ounces of saltpeter. Cure 
in all respects as above. 

Rusty or Tainted Meat. — If meat 
has been properly drained to free It 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 59S 



from blood, the pickle boiled and 
clarified, the barrels scalded, and the 
meat kept under the pickle by means 
of a suitable weight, it should keep 
indefinitely. But it is quite custo- 
mary, as a precaution, to pour off the 
pickling liquid on the approach of 
summer, say in April, in temperate 
climates. Again bring it to a boil, 
with the addition of about i- pound 
of salt to each gallon of pickling 
liquid, and when cold, once more pour 
it over the meat through a cheese- 
cloth strainer. But this is said to 
harden the beef and injure its flavor. 
It is believed that if the meat is prop- 
erly cured, this will not usually be 
found necessary. 

If the meat should become tainted, 
pour off the tainted pickle and dis- 
card it. Rinse the meat with clear 
water and wash out the barrel with 
a strong solution of lime water or 
wood ashes. If the barrel is much 
tainted, it may be well to fill it with 
this solution and let stand overnight. 
Afterwards scald with boiling water. 

Rub the meat in a mixture of salt- 
peter and sugar, and pack it between 
layers of charcoal. Finally, pour over 
it fresh pickling liquid, prepared as 
above, strong enough to float an egg. 

Or Tniv 12 pounds of powdered 
charcoal, 10 pounds of common salt, 
and 4 pounds of saltpeter. Cover the 
bottom of the cask vidth a layer of 
this mixture, rub each piece with the 
same, and sprinkle it freely between 
the layers of meat. By either of 
these methods all traces of taint can 
be removed. The charcoal can be 
rinsed off with clear water. 

Red Pickling Iiiguid for Meat. — 
To impart a fine red color to meat 
and to improve its flavor, dissolve in 
8 gallons of pure soft water 8 pounds 
of bay salt, 8 pounds of common salt, 
6 pounds of brown sugar, 1 poimd 
of saltpeter, 8 ounces of bruised pi- 
mento, S ounces of bruised black pep- 
per, and 3 ounces of grated nutmeg. 

To Improve Corned Beef. — The 
quality of corned beef can be im- 
proved by immersing the pieces for 
half a -minute by the watch, in boil- 



ing water before pickling. This is in 
accordance with the well-known prac- 
tice of immersing beef that is to be 
boiled for the table in hot water in 
order to harden the surface, and 
cause the meat to retain its natural 
juices. Similarly this method tends 
to make corned beef more tender and 
juicy than otherwise. To effect this 
result first drain the meat to free it 
from blood, rinse it in clear water. 
Bring to a boil a solution of 2 oimces 
of saltpeter in 4 gallons of water and 
with a large , fork having a long 
wooden handle, or a piece of wire 
having a hook at the end, immerse 
the pieces of meat for half a minute 
each in the boiling solution. 

Or the same result may be ob- 
tained by pouring the pickling liquid 
while scalding hot over the meat; but 
the former method is to be preferred. 

CTTBINe HAUS, TOITGITES, AND 
BACON 

Pickling Mutton Hams. — First rub 
the hams with a mixture of 1 pound 
of salt, 1 ounce of saltpeter, and 1 
ounce of sugar. Hang up for 24 or 
48 hours to drain. Cover with a so- 
lution of about J pound of salt to 2 
gallons of watery and let stand for 2 
or 3 weeks. Pack closely in tubs or 
barrels and for each J barrel, or 100 
pounds, prepare a pickle by dissolv- 
ing 6 pounds of coarse fine salt, 2 
ounces of saltpeter, 2 ounces of soda, 
1 pint of molasses, and 1 poimd of 
brown sugar in 6 gallons of pure soft 
water. 

Pickling Tongues. — After trim- 
ming off the roots, with the exception 
of a little of the fat, rub the cut sur- 
face with a mixture of 1 pound of 
salt and 1 ounce of saltpeter. Sprin- 
kle with the same and let drain for 
48 hours. Now prepare a pickle by 
dissolving in 1 gallon of soft water 
2J pounds of bay salt, 2 ounces of 
saltpeter, and 1 pound of brown 
sugar. Bring to a boil over a slow 
fire, skimming constantly, and im- 
merse the tongues in this. 

Or mix 1 tablespoonful of salt, 1 



594 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



tablespoonful of brown sugar and 2 
tablespoonfuls of saltpeter to each 
tongue. Rub this well into the 
tongues twice a day for a week and 
let them stand in the brine. At the 
end of this time, add 1 additional ta- 
blespoonful of salt for each tongue 
and rub the pickle into them once a. 
day for a week or 10 days. 

Curing Pork Hams. — Pork hams 
may be cured either by dry- or wet- 
salting or pickling. It is then custom- 
ary to smoke them, both to impart 
a smoky flavor and as a protection 
against insects. And they may be 
further protected by wrapping or 
sealing in cloth or paper cases. 

To dry-salt hams for smoking, but 
without pickle, which is the English 
method, rub the fleshy parts thor- 
oughly each day with fime table salt 
and hang up the hams for 3 or 4 days 
where they can drain. On the fourth 
day, rub well into the hams, using 
plenty of " elbow grease," a mixture 
of 1 pound of common salt, 1 pound 
of bay salt, 4 ounces of saltpeter, and 
i pound of brown sugar. Lay the 
hams on a board or shelf, rind side 
down, and each day apply to the 
fleshy side with a soft brush, a mix- 
ture of 1 pound of brown sugar and 
1 pound of molasses. At the end of 
a fortnight, smoke with hickory wood 
or corncobs. 

Or for each 100 pounds of pork, 
mix li ounces of saltpeter, 1 ounce of 
black pepper, S ounces of brown 
sugar and 1 quart of common or bay 
salt. Add just enough hot water to 
dissolve. Mix all together and rub 
thoroughly into the meat. A wom- 
an's hands are not heavy enough to 
do this work properly. It is advisable 
to take out the bone and rub the in- 
side of the ham where the bone is re- 
moved in the same manner. But if 
this is not done, the bone may be 
loosened slightly with a knife and the 
mixture forced into the cut for a few 
inches. Lay the hams with the fleshy 
side up and rub them over with this 
mixture every day for 10 days or 3 
weeks, after which smoke them with 
hickory chips or corncobs. 



Or for a wet-salting process, mix 
1 pound of common salt, 1 pound of 
bay salt, 3 ounces of saltpeter, and J 
pound of brown sugar. Dissolve the 
saltpeter in a little boiling water, 
using no more than is necessary to 
dissolve it. Mix the other ingredients 
and rub the whole thoroughly into 
the fleshy side of the ham. Place 
them in a firkin or other tight recep- 
tacle and add for each ham 2 table- 
spoonfuls of pure vinegar. Each day 
turn the hams, and rub the brine into 
them thoroughly for a week or 10 
days. Then let stand 3 or 4 days in 
the pickle, basting them occasionally 
with a large wooden spoon. 

Or for each ham of 16 or 18 pounds' 
weight, mix 2 tablespoonfuls of salt- 
peter, and 4 ounces of brown sugar 
and rub it thoroughly into the fleshy 
side. After which cover the fleshy 
side with a layer of fine salt J inch 
thick, and lay the hams down in the 
tubs for 4 or S weeks. 

Or mix 1 pound of bay salt, J 
pound of saltpeter, J pound of com- 
mon salt, and J pound of brown 
sugar. Heat to dryness, and rub 
well into the fleshy side of the ham. 
Lay it in a tub, barrel, or firkin, 
the rind side down. Cover the fleshy 
parts with a layer of this mixture 
and each day turn the hams, and 
rub the brine into them for a week 
or 10 days. Afterwards let stand for 
a month basting the pickle over them 
daily vnth a large wooden spoon. 
Hang up to dry for 2 or 3 days and 
smoke. 

Or protect against insects, and 
store without smoking. A small ham 
will require about 2 weeks, and a 
large one 3 to 4 weeks to cure by the 
above method. A tongue will require 
about 12 days. They may then be 
tised at once without drying, or may 
be dried and smoked. 

Or if the weather is hot, and the 
hams show signs of rusting, make 
a pickle of common salt and water 
strong enough to float an egg, and 
pour it over them. 

Or to pickle pork hams, first rub 
them with a mixture of 1 pound of 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 595 



pure salt and 1 ounce of saltpeter. 
Sprinkle with same and let them 
drain on slats for 48 hours. Rub into 
each ham a mixture of i teaspoonf ul 
of saltpeter, J teaspoonful of brown 
sugar, and 1 salt spoon of Cayenne 
pepper. Scald a suitable tub or bar- 
rel. Cover the bottom with a layer 
of pure salt. Pack the hams in this, 
rind side down, sprinkling salt freely 
over the fleshy side of each, and let 
stand for a week. Prepare a pick- 
ling liquid by dissolving in 6 gallons 
of soft water 10 pounds of salt, 4 
pounds of brown sugar, 4 ounces 
of saltpeter, and 2 ounces of soda. 
Bring to a boil with very gentle heat, 
skimming constantly. Set aside until 
cool, and pour into the cask through 
a cheese-cloth strainer. The hams 
should remain in this pickle from 6 
weeks to 3 months, according to their 
size. 

Or for 100 pounds of meat, dissolve 
in 4 gallons of soft water, 8 pounds 
of coarse fine salt, 1 ounce of baking 
soda, 2 ounces of saltpeter, and 2 
pounds of brown sugar. Prepare in 
all respects as above. 

Or for 100 pounds of meat, dissolve 
in 4 gallons of soft water 7 pounds 
of coarse fine salt, 2J pounds of 
brown sugar, 2 ounces of saltpeter, 
and 2 ounces of soda. Immerse the 
hams and pickle for 2 or 3 months, 
according to their size. 

Or rub the hams with a mixture of 
1 pound of salt, 1 ounce of saltpeter, 
and let drain 3 or 4 days. Immerse 
in brine strong enough to float an 
egg, and for each i barrel or 100 
pounds of meat, add 2 quarts of mo- 
lasses, 4 ounces of saltpeter, 2 ounces 
of baking soda, and pickle 6 to 8 
weeks. 

Smoking Pork Hams. — Remove the 
hams from the pickling liquid and 
hang them up to drain and dry. 
When they have drained sufSciently, 
wipe them carefully with a sponge or 
clean cloth, and rub thoroughly into 
the fleshy side a mixture of equal 
parts of Cayenne and black pepper, 
especially about the bone and hock. 
This will prevent flies lighting upon 



them. Now sew up each ham in a 
bag of cheese cloth or scrim to pro- 
tect it from soot, and hang up in the 
smoke house under a barrel or any 
suitable receptacle and smoke — the 
longer the better. Chips or sawdust 
from hickory or beech wood or corn- 
cobs are the most suitable fuel with 
which to smoke hams. After being 
lighted they must be kept smoldering 
by sprinkling them lightly with water 




"Harts itp Under a Barrel." 

whenever they commence to blaze. 
And the process may be continued 
for 8 or 10 hours or for several weeks, 
according to convenience or the qual- 
ity desired. Some persons who burn 
wood exclusively as fuel, smoke hams 
by sewing them up in a coarse cloth 
and hanging them up in the chimney, 
hut this method is not suitable if 
coal is used as fuel in any part of 
the house. When hams are smoked 
properly the pyroligneous acid of the 
smoke permeates the meat. It also 
dries slowly at the same time. Quick 
smoking merely coats the outside of 
the ham, but does not penetrate its 
fiber. 

Or an imitation of smoking may 
be had by immersing the ham in di- 



596 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



luted pyroligneous acid for 3 or 3 
hours, or giving it 2 or 3 coatings 
with a brush. But this method tends 
to harden and toughen the meat and 
is therefore not to be recommended 
for domestic use. 

To Store Smoked Ham. — After re- 
moving hams from the smoke house, 
they may be rinsed in cold water, or 
better still, immersed for 2 or 3 min- 
utes in boiling water, the effect of 
which is to cover them with a coating 
of grease and also to kill any germs 
or eggs of insects that may be pres- 
ent. Next, coat them with flour paste 
prepared by rubbing up 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of flour in a little cold water, 
bringing to a boil, and stirring in 1 
teaspoonful or more of Cayenne pep- 
per. Cover the hams thickly with 
this paste by means of a soft brush, 
and hang them up in the direct sun- 
light until the paste dries. When 
dry, sew them up in coarse cloth, and 
give the cloth a coating of shellac or 
other varnish. 

Or suspend them In a loose bag 
surrounded by finely chopped straw 
to the thickness of 2 or 3 inches. 

Or place them in ordinary paper 
flour sacks. Tie tightly to exclude 
the air and insects and hang up in a 
cool, dark, well-ventilated place. 

Or wrap each ham in ordinary 
brown butcher's wrapping paper, seal 
with paste containing Cayenne pep- 
per, and tie with twine. Pack in 
packing cases or barrels -in finely 
chopped straw. A coating of pyro- 
ligneous acid, if carefully applied, so 
as to cover the entire surface and 
penetrate aU crevices, will effectually 
prevent contamination of insects. 

Curing Bacon. — The process of 
curing bacon is similar to dry-smok- 
ing pork hams. Rub the flitches of 
bacon with 1 ounce of common salt, 
1 ounce of saltpeter, and 1 ounce of 
brown sugar. Lay them on slats or 
slanting boards to drain for 48 hours, 
turning frequently. Next lay the 
flitches in a deep dripping pan, and 
cover with the same mixture. Turn 
and rub the pickle into them 2 or 3 
times a day for a week or 10 



Let stand in the pickle for about 3 
weeks in all, basting them frequently 
with a large wooden spoon. Remove 
and smoke as for hams. Place in 
paper flour sacks and tie tightly to 
exclude the air and preserve from 
insects. 

UAKIKG ANS EEEFIITG SAUSAGE 

Sausage. — Fresh pork, beef, and 
other meats may be preserved in the 
same manner as sausage meat by 
seasoning them highly with spices 
and packing them in air-tight cases, 
or in earthenware or other tight re- 
ceptacles, and running over them a 
layer of melted lard or tallow to ex- 
clude the air. 

Intestine Cases for Sausage. — 
Remove from the pig's intestines 
the loose fat and outer membranes. 
Turn them inside out and cleanse 
them thoroughly in borax water. 
Bleach by letting them soak for 24 
hours or more in water containing 1 
ounce of chloride of Ume to the gal- 
lon. Rinse thoroughly in clear soft 
water and scrape or tear off a part 
of the inner lining until they are as 
thin as may be without tearing or 
puncturing them. Finally, wash them 
thoroughly several times in warm 
water. 

Seasoning for Sausage. — Salt, pep- 
per, and sage, according to taste, 
are ordinarily used for seasoning 
sausage. Summer savory is also fre- 
quently used, and other spices, as all- 
spice, cloves, ginger, etc., are some- 
times recommended. But, as a rule, 
salt, pepper, and sage are sufficient, 
and vrill be preferred by most per- 
sons. The proportion of seasoning 
recommended varies, and it is a good 
plan in mixing sausage meat, to fry 
a little of the meat after seasoning 
and add more of the ground meat or 
seasoning, as desired, until the flavor 
is satisfactory. The following are all 
tested recipes, and by comparison, a 
selection may be made according to 
whether it is desired to have the sau- 
sage highly seasoned or not: 

For 10 pounds of ground sausage 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 597 



meat, use 4 ounces of salt, J ounce of 
pepper, and | ounce of sage. 

Or for the same quantity, 5 table- 
spoonfuls of sage, 4 tablespoonfuls of 
salt, and 2 tablespoonfuls of pepper. 

Or for each pound of meat, 1 heap- 
ing teaspoonful of salt, 1 of pepper, 
and 1 of sage, with the addition to 
each 3 pounds of meat, if desired, 1 
teaspoonful each of allspice, ginger, 
and summer savory. 

Or for over 25 pounds of meat, 12 
ounces of salt, 2 ounces of sage, and 
2 ounces of pepper. 

Or for 10 pounds of meat, 4 ounces 
of salt, 1 ounce of sage, and 1 ounce 
of pepper. 

Oiinding Sausage Heat. — The 
trimmings of the hog's carcass are 
ordinarily ground into sausage meat, 
the proportion of fat and lean being 
varied according to taste. Some pre- 
fer i fat meat to | lean. Others J 
fat to i lean. 

To Prepare Sausage. — To prepare 
good sausage, it is desirable to have 
a sausage grinder or suitable meat 
cutter, although the sausage meat can 
be chopped in a wooden tray with a 




"A Coat of MeUed Lard. 



chopping knife or on a block by 
means of a heavy knife or cleaver. It 
will be found easier in mixing the 
spices thoroughly into the meat to 
dry and pulverize them as finely as 
possible, cut the meat into rather 
small pieces and gprinkle the spices 



over it before it is ground. It will 
thus become thoroughly incorporated 
with the meat in grinding. The sau- 
sage grinder is ordinarily fitted with 
a. device for filling the cases. If link 
sausage is to be made, care must be 
taken not to fill the sausage cases too 
full, but to pinch and twist them at 
intervals to make them link properly. 

Or sausages may be packed in 
cases of muslin or other clean white 
goods about 2J or 3 inches thick, 
forced in by means of a clean round 
stick of hard wood, laid down in jars, 
and covered with brine or melted lard. 

Or the cloth cases may be dipped 
in melted lard and hung up to dry, 
care being taken that they have a tmi- 
form coating of lard to exclude the 
air. 

Or the sausage meat may be laid 
down in earthenware pans 4 or S- 
inches deep, and a coat of melted 
lard i to J inch deep poured over 
them to exclude the air. As long as 
the coating of lard is not broken, the 
sausage meat will keep indefinitely. 
Or if the dish is not too large, it will 
usually keep after being opened un- 
til required for family use. Or after 
slices have been removed for use, the 
open end can be covered with a coat- 
ing of melted lard until more is 
needed. 

Or large earthenware jars may be 
used for this purpose, although, in 
most cases, they are not as convenient. 

To Improve Sausage Meat. — ^The 
addition of about ^ by weight of 
ground beef to pork sausage, is pre- 
ferred by many, as it makes the sau- 
sage less greasy and firmer in tex- 
ture. 

Or for immediate use, powdered 
bread crumbs at the same rate may 
be added for this purpose. But this 
should not be used if the sausage 
meat is to be laid down for a long 
time as it will not keep so well. 

Bologna Sausage. — The so-called 
bologna sausage is a mixture of ap- 
proximately equal parts of pork and 
beef or other meats highly seasoned 
and packed in large cases, 3 to 6 
inches in diameter, obtained from the 



598 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



intestines of beeves. The following 
mixtures are recommended : 

Grind up togetlier in a sausage ma- 
chine or meat cutter 4 pounds of beef 
and 3 pounds of pork free from fat 
or gristle, to which add 6 pounds of 
fresh fat pork cut in thin strips and 
chopped on a block by means of a 
heavy knife or cleaver into pieces 
about 1 of an inch square or less. 
Season this quantity with 8 ounces of 
salt, i ounce of saltpeter, 8 ounces of 
coffee sugar, and J ounce of bruised 
pimento. To exclude the air, the . 
cases must be packed with as much 
pressure as they will stand without 
bursting, and this may be done by 
tying them at the bottom and press- 
ing in the meat with a round block 
of wood or pestle, nearly but not 
quite large enough to fill the inside 
of the case. If the meat is not 
packed tightly enough, the sausage 
will not keep. 

Rub the outside of the cases with 
salt butter. Tie them tightly at both 
ends and hang up to dry for 3 weeks, 
then smoke as for hams or bacon. 

Or cut into small pieces an inch or 
two square 3 pounds of pork, IJ 
pounds of beef free from fat or 
gristle, and 1 pound of clean fresh 
beef suet. Sprinkle with a mixture 
of spices consisting of 3 ounces of 
salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of black pep- 
per, 2 teaspoonfuls of Cayenne, 1 tea- 
spoonful each of cloves and allspice, 
and a small onion chopped fine. If 
the meat cutter is coarse, run through 
a second time and pack tightly in 
cases 4 or 6 inches in diameter. Knot 
both ends and cover with strong 
brine for a week or 10 days. Change 
the brine and let stand another week. 
After which dry and smoke them as 
for hams or bacon. Rub the cases 
with butter and store them in a cool 
dark place. 

Mixed Sausage. — Cut in small 
pieces equal parts of fat pork, lean 
pork, lean veal, and beef suet. For 
each 6 pounds of meat add the rind 
of a lemon grated, a small nutmeg 
grated, J ounce of powdered sage, 3 
teaspoonfuls of butter, 4 teaspoonfuls 



of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of summer 
savory. Pack in cases or lay down 
in jars and cover with lard. 

Beef Sausage. — In summer,^ when 
fresh pork is not obtainable, raw beef 
may be ground up with beef suet in 
the proportion of about 1 part of 
suet, 2 parts of lean beef, and the 
whole seasoned vrith 1 teaspoonful 
each of pepper, salt, sage, and sum- 
mer savory ground through the meat 
cutter or sausage girinder, and made 
into cakes to be fried, or laid down 
in earthenware pans under a coating 
of lard until required for use. 

Pickled Tripe. — ^Empty the paunch 
by turning it wrong side out, taking 
care not to let any of the contents 
get on the outside. Rinse with cold 
water. Tie or sew up the openings 
tightly with strong cord so that the 
lime water cannot get inside, and im- 
merse it in a tub of cold fresh slaked 
lime about as thick as whitewash. 
Let it stand IS or 20 minutes, or imtil 
the dark outside skin is loosened 
and can be readily pulled off. Pass 
through 3 or 4 rinsing waters. Tack 
up on a board and with a dull knife 
scrape off the dark surface until it 
looks clean and has no offensive odor. 
Soak for half an hour in hot water, 
then scrape with a dull knife and re- 
peat until perfectly white and clean. 
Immerse in strong brine and let 
stand 3 or 4 days, changing the 
water each day. Cut into pieces a 
foot long and 6 inches wide, and im- 
merse in buttermilk for 3 or 4 days 
to whiten. Rinse and lay down in a 
suitable cask. Cover with pure white 
wine or cider vinegar, or spiced pic- 
kling liquid as preferred. 

PEESEEVATION OF COOKED MEAT 

In addition to the preservation of 
fresh meat in various ways, cooked 
or partially cooked meats may be 
preserved for considerable periods of 
time by canning or taking other 
means to exclude the air. Meats to 
be canned are first cut into suit- 
able pieces, boiled imtil tender and 
packed in glass jars surrounded by 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 599 



boiling water. The meat jelly, or 
" aspic," in which they have been 
cooked, is then seasoned to taste and 
poured over them, boiling hot, until 
the jar is filled to the brim, and they 
are then sealed while hot. The addi- 
tion of the aspic, which is, of course, 
melted when the cans are sealed, but 
which solidifies on cooling, not only 
assists in preserving the meat, but 
also improves its flavor. 

Or suitable tin cans may be used. 
The cans, surrounded with hot water, 
are packed with the cooked meat, and 
the meat jelly poured over them. 
The cover is then soldered in place, 
a small hole is punctured in it and 
the water surrounding the can is 
boiled untQ steam escapes from the 
aperture. The opening is then closed 
with solder. The condensation of 
the steam inside the can on cool- 
ing produces a vacuum by which the 
sides of the can are made slightly 
concave. And if at any time this 
concavity disappears, or the sides of 
the can swell so as to become convex, 
it is a sure indication that the con- 
tents were not properly preserved and 
have become putrid. 

Or to preserve pork chops or sliced 
ham for summer frying, pickle fresh 
pork about 10 days or 3 weeks and 
fry it until about half done. 

Or remove the hams from the brine 
in April, slice, trim, and fry them 
until half done. Pack the chops or 
hams separately in solid layers in 
stone jars. Let them cool, and when 
entirely cold, pour over them their 
own fat with the addition of a little 
melted lard, so as to cover the sur- 
face with a layer J inch or more 
thick. Place over the top of the jar 
a layer of cotton batting. Put on the 
lid tightly and store in a cool place 
until required for use. After taking 
out a portion of the meat for use, re- 
melt the lard and pour back over the 
meat to exclude the air. Lamb or 
veal chops, beefsteak or sausage meat 
may be laid down in the same man- 
ner. 

Preserving Cooked Sausage. — ^Pack 
sausage in cases, or sausage meat. 



into a small crock or bean pot about 
I full. Place in a baking oven and 
bake about fifteen minutes for each 
pound of sausage, i.e., for 6 pounds 
of sausage bake an hour and a half. 
Remove from the oven and set aside 
to cool. When cold, fill the crock 
with melted lard. Throw over the top 
a layer of cotton batting, put on the 
lid, and store in a dark, cool place 
until required for use. 

Or fried sausage can be laid down 
in the same manner and covered with 
its own grease. 

Or for cooked bologna sausage, 
grind together 2 pounds each-of pork, 
bacon, beef, and veal free from fat or 
gristle, and 2 "pounds of beef suet. 
First cut in small pieces and sprinkle 
over it before grinding 4 ounces of 
salt, 6 tablespoonfuls of black pep- 
per, 1 tablespoonful of Cayenne, and 
pack tightly into beef cases 4 or 5 
inches in diameter. Form links about 
12 or IS inches in length, tying at 
both ends. Prick the skins and boU 
for about an hour. Hang up to dry 
for 2 or 3 days and afterwards smoke 
with hickory wood or corncobs. 

Or grind up together with suitable 
seasoning equal quantities of ham, 
veal, or pork; or J pork and § beef. 
Cook and smoke as above. 

Potted Beef. — Cut 3 pounds of lean 
beef into pieces weighing about i of 
a pound each and sprinkle over them 
a mixture of J pound of table salt 
and i ounce of powdered saltpeter. 
Let the beef lie in this pickle 3 or 3 
days, turning the pieces occasionally. 
Remove the meat from the pickle, 
place it in a stone jar or pan cov- 
ered, if convenient, with a little beef 
gravy or just enough cold water to 
prevent burning. Put an earthen- 
ware plate over it and bake in a 
slow oven for about 4 hours, or un- 
til the meat is very tender and falls 
away from the bones. Remove the 
meat from the gravy. Shred or chop 
it fine, moisten it with the gravy 
and pound it in a marble mortar or 
otherwise with a little fresh butter to 
a very fine paste. Season to taste 
with pepper, allspice, nutmeg, mace. 



600 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



or cloves. Or add, if desired, Cay- 
enne, Tabasco, curry powder, or an- 
chovies, mustard, or other condiment, 
according to taste. Press tightly in 
small crocks or jars, or in fruit jars. 
When cold, pour over the tops of the 
jars melted lard or butter to a thick- 
ness of J inch, and cover with a. layer 
of cotton batting tied tightly on any 
cover that wUl exclude the air. 

Pressed Beef. — Or select about S 
pounds of cheap beef that would 
otherwise be too tough to cook, in- 
cluding about I of a pound of beef 
fat. Cover with a mixture of | pound 
of salt and J ounce of saltpeter and 
let stand for a couple of days turn- 
ing it. now and then, and rubbing 
brine into it. Rinse in clear water 
and boil untU it falls from the bones, 
taking care that when boiled down, 
the gravy will be as thick as possible. 
Remove the beef from the gravy with 
a skimmer and chop fine. Allow the 
gravy to cool. Take off the cake of 
fat, and dissolve J ounce of gelatin 
in the gravy with gentle heat. Spice 
to taste. Stir in the chopped meat. 
Pack on jars imder a weight and pour 
melted lard or butter over the top to 
the depth of J inch or more. If care- 
fully preserved from the air, this will 
keep for a considerable time at ordi- 
nary temperatures, and may be sliced 
and eaten cold without further cook- 
ing. 

TRYING OUT AND STOBING LABD 

Lard. — The leaf fat which adheres 
to the ribs and belly of the hog make 
the so-called " leaf lard," which is of 
the best quality. Hence it is a good 
plan to try out the leaves separately. 
But any part of the hog fat not used 
for other purposes may be tried out 
to make an ordinary quality of lard. 
A set kettle, or other large kettle, 
held over a camp fire by means of 
a tripod out of doors on a clear, 
calm day, is the best utensil for this 
purpose. Cut the fat into small 
pieces 1 or 2 inches square, and add 
1 ounce of soda for each 25 pounds 
of meat. Stir frequently as soon as 



the fat melts and the scraps begin to 
brown. Melt with very gentle heat, 
taking care not to allow the fat to 
smoke or burn. Toward the last, the 
lard must be stirred constantly to 
prevent burning. The lard ' wiU be 
done when the steam ceases to rise. 
When the scraps are brown and 
shriveled, throw in a little salt to set- 
tle the sediment, and strain through 
a cheese-cloth strainer into tubs or 
jars. Tie over the tops a layer of cot- 
ton batting to exclude the air. Lard 
wUl keep better in small jars than 
in large ones. Good lard should be 
white and solid without any offensive 
odor. Store in a cool, dry place. 
The lard from the intestines will not 
keep as well as leaf lard, hence 
should be rendered separately. It 
will keep better if soaked for 3 or 4 
days in strong brine changed each 
day. 

Bleaching Lard. — ^The addition of 
about 1 pint of boiled white lye from 
hickory ashes, strained through cheese 
cloth into the fat before boUing, tends 
to bleach it. 

Adulteration of Lard with Water. 
— The addition of 3 to S per cent 
milk of lime, allows about 35 per cent 
of water to be mixed with lard while 
cooling, thus greatly increasing its 
weight and volume. The presence of 
water may be perceived by the sput- 
tering made In melting the lard. 
Also, the water will collect in the bot- 
tom of the vessel and the lard will 
float on its surface. This test will 
often show that the purchaser is pay- 
ing for a considerable percentage of 
water instead of lard. 

Cod Fat. — The suet taken from 'the 
beef flank is called cod fat. It makes 
a much softer and better fat than 
the common suet. Obtain the best 
looking pieces of cod fat from the 
butcher, free them from veins or 
spots and melt with very gentle heat. 
Pour the melted suet into clear cold 
water, iced water, if convenient, to 
harden. Pour off the water, remove 
all dampness with a clean dry cloth. 
Wrap up the fat In waxed paper and 
store in a cool, dry place. 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 601 



Cottolene. — This substitute for 
lard or suet consists of 6 parts cot- 
ton oil, 4 parts oleostearine. Melt to- 
gether with very gentle heat and run 
through a filter in jars. This is pre- 
ferred by many to animal fat, being 
purer as well as cheaper. 

FBESEBVING, TESIIITG, AND FAOE- 
ma EGGS 

Preservation of Eggs. — More hens' 
eggs are laid during the months of 
March, April, May, and June than 
during the other 8 months of the 
year. Hence the bulk of the con- 
sumption of eggs during the fall and 
winter months is of eggs that are not 
fresh laid. The commercial method 
of preserving eggs is by means of 
cold storage in vaults kept at a tem- 
perature of 40° F. or less. Eggs are 
collected aU over the United States 
and stored in the largest cities, 
whence they are distributed at whole- 
sale and often times sold in the win- 
ter months to farmers and others 
who keep hens, but who are not, at 
that season, getting enough eggs for 
their own consumption. The whole- 
sale market recognizes seventeen 
grades of eggs according to their size, 
weight, and freshness and the locali- 
ties from which they come. But the 
ordinary buyer of eggs is unable to 
distinguish among them, and often 
gets a very much cheaper grade of 
cold-storage egg than she pays for. 
Hence on aU grounds, it is much 
better and cheaper for those who 
keep chickens to preserve, in the sea- 
son when eggs are plentiful, all that 
are not required for immediate use. 
If care is taken, eggs if perfectly 
fresh when preserved wUl be nearly, 
if not quite equal to new. But at 
all events, home-stored eggs, if prop- 
erly preserved, will be superior to 
cold-storage ones, which are often far 
from fresh when gathered and placed 
in storage. 

Testing Eggs. — Eggshells are por- 
ous or perforated right through by 
minute holes for the admission of air 
needed by the chick for breathing. 



Hence in time a part of the liquid 
contents of the egg evaporates. The 
white and yolk shrink and the result- 
ing emptied space is filled with air. 
This space is normally at the broad 
end. And this is the reason why, in 




"Look Through them at the Light. 



storing eggs, the point should always 
be downward. To test eggs take a 
candle or electric light or lamp in an 
otherwise dark room and fit it with a 
candling chimney, which may be ob- 
tained at any poultry store or may 
be readily made from a piece of card- 
board. This is merely a cylinder of 
cardboard large enough to surround 
the candle or the lamp chimney, and 
having a tube inserted at right angles 
somewhat smaller in diameter than 
an ordinary egg, and about the level 
of the flame. Through this the egg 
can be observed against the light. 

To test eggs, hold each one up 
against the opening of this cylinder, 
broad end upward, and look through 
them at the light. If the contents do 
not fill the shell, the egg is not per- 
fectly fresh, and the larger the air 
space the older is the egg. The yolk 
should be perfectly clear and round 
in outline. If, besides the air space, 
there is a dark haze or cloud in the 
egg, it has become spoiled. If the 
cloud contains a black spot, the egg 
is bad. AU storage eggs show some 
shrinkage, and eggs shipped by 



602 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



freight from distant points to a 
wholesale market, will shrink on the 
way even if not afterwards preserved 
in cold storage. 

Uethods of Preserving Eggs. — ^The 
object to be secured in preserving 
eggs is to prevent the evaporation of 
their contents, and thus prevent the 
air coming in to fill the space. This 
may be accomplished by any method 
of filling the pores of the shell so as 
to effectually prevent the passage of 
air. Among the substances recom- 
mended for this purpose are mucilage 
made of gum arable or gum traga- 
canth dissolved in water; albumen, or 
the white of egg; coUodion, linseed 
oil, parafSn; shellac, or other varnish; 
saltpeter, lard, sugar sirup; finely 
powdered gypsum, or plaster of Paris, 
dry salt, and various solutions, as 
lime, soda, saltpeter, salt, etc., in 
water. 

As the object of aU these methods 
is the same, it becomes merely a ques- 
tion of selecting whatever substance 
is most readily obtainable and what- 
ever method is most convenient under 
the circumstances. Hence to preserve 
eggs, dissolve with gentle heat 1 
ounce of gum arable or gum traga- 
canth in 1 pint of water, and if too 
thick, thin with boiling water to the 
consistency of common mucilage. Re- 
move the mucilage from the fire, al- 
low it to cool and apply it with a soft 
brush. Have at hand large sheets of 
blotting paper or a bed of dry sand 
on which to rest the eggs while the 
mucilage is drying. If laid on wood 
or any other hard substance, the 
mucilage will cause them to stick and 
they cannot be removed without chip- 
ping the shell. After laying down 
the eggs take care to cover the fin- 
ger marks where the egg was held. 
When dry, pack, with the small ends 
down, in paUs, tubs, or cases in dry 
bran, meal, or flour. Do not use salt 
with gum arabic or tragacanth_ as, 
by attracting moisture, it may cause 
them to dissolve. If a little of the 
blotting paper or sand adheres to the 
egg it will do no harm. When the 
eggs are required for use, the muci- 



lage can be removed with cold water, 
taking any foreign substances with it. 

Or beat up the white of an egg 
with a saltspoonful of salt, and apply 
in the same manner. 

Or apply shellac or copal varnish. 

Or apply by the same method a 
thick coating of coUodion dissolved 
in alcohol, or a coating of paraffin or 
of linseed oU. 

Or place in the palm of the hand a 
little salt butter or pure salted lard, 
and turn the egg about until every 
portion of the surface has been cov- 
ered with the grease. Thus a small 
amount of lard or butter will cover 
a large number of eggs. Pack with 
the small ends down in bran or other 
substance as described above. 

■ Or pack eggs, greased with salted 
lard or butter, between layers of 
common salt. Take care to store in 
a perfectly dry, well-ventilated place 
where the eggs will not freeze. Eggs 
thus stored can be preserved for sev- 
eral months. 

Or for home use, dip the egg for 
10 or 30 seconds into boiling water. 
This forms a thin coating of albumen 
inside of the shell that partially closes 
the pores. Remove from the boiling 
water and dip into a thin sugar 
sirup made by dissolving 5 pounds 
of brown sugar in a gallon of water, 
and set aside to dry. Small quanti- 
ties of eggs may be dipped in these 
liquids by means of a colander or 
suspended in a wire or wicker basket. 
But take care to shake them slightly 
so that every part of the shell wiU be 
exposed to the solutions. When dry, 
pack as above. 

Or to preserve eggs for a longer 
period of time, they may be immersed 
in a solution of lime with other sub- 
stances, in water. The celebrated 
English patent of Jayne consisted in 
slaking fresh stone lime in a wooden 
tub or barrel with just enough water 
to dissolve it, and afterwards thin- 
ning with cold water to a point that 
will just float a fresh egg. Then, for 
each bushel of lime, stir in 2 pounds 
of salt and J pound of cream of tar- 
tar. Immerse the eggs and keep them 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 603 



below the surface by means of a 
floating cover of wood weighted just 
enough to rest upon the eggs without 
crushing them. 

Or for a small quantity of eggs, the 
same recipe would require about 1 
ounce of salt, | ounce of cream of 
tartar, and 1 quart of lime. 

Or a standard American recipe 
consists in packing the eggs with the 
small ends down, in a crock or firkin, 
and covering them with a cold solu- 
tion of 1 pound of lime, 2 ounces of 
salt, and J ounce of saltpeter, dis- 
solved by stirring in boiling water 
and aUowed to stand overnight be- 
fore using. 

Or to 3 gallons of water, add 1 
pint of fresh slaked lime, J pint of 
common salt, and 3 ounces of salt- 
peter. 

Or a more elaborate recipe caUs 
for 4 pounds of fresh stone lime to 
be slaked in 12 gallons of water. Stir 
in 2 poimds of salt and let stand for 
24 hours. Decant the pure lime water 
without disturbing the sediment. Dis- 
solve separately in one gallon of 
boiling water 2i ounces of soda, 2J 
ounces of cream of tartar, 2i ounces 
of saltpeter, 2J ounces of borax, and 
1 ounce of alum. Mix this solution 
with 10 gallons of the pure lime wa- 
ter. Pack the eggs, point down, in 
smtable tubs or casks, and cover with 
this liquid. They must be kept be- 
low the surface by means of a cloth 
or wooden cover and suitable weights. 
This quantity is sufficient for about 
75 dozen eggs. The same proportions 
may be observed for smaller quan- 
tities. 

Or pack the eggs in stone crocks, 
points down, and pour over them 
melted lard as cool as it will blow, or 
just before it sets, and allow it to 
harden about them. 

Packing Eggs. — To pack eggs for 
transportation, layers of newspaper 
or any soft, cheap paper that may be 
available will be found safer than 
oats or bran. Crumple a number of 
newspapers, and lay them in the bot- 
tom of the box or basket, and bring 
them up well around the sides. Pack 



the eggs close together so that they 
cannot roU against each other. Lay 
over them 2 or 3 thicknesses of paper, 
on this another layer of eggs, and so 
on. Throw over the top 3 or 3 thick- 
nesses of coarse burlap and fasten it 
around the outside of the package 
with cord. Eggs packed in this way 
in a clothes basket may be driven 
in a wagon over the roughest roads 
without breaking. 

Or to pack for market, obtain an 
egg case, manufactured for this pur- 
pose, which will serve as a model for 
making cases at home. Or they can 
be made at trifling expense by the 
local carpenter. It will be found that 
the cost of these cases will be more 
than r^aid in convenience and in 
preventing breakage. 

Pickling Eggs. — Prepare a spiced 
pickling liquid the same as for spiced 
cucumber or other pickles. 

Or boil in a cheese-cloth bag for 
IS or 20 minutes in 1 quart of white 
wine or pure cider vinegar, 1 ounce 
of raw ginger, 1 ounce of allspice, 2 
blades of mace, 1 ounce of pepper, 1 
ounce of salt, 3 or 4 cloves of garlic, 
and 1 ounce of mustard seed. Boil 
for this quantity of pickle, a dozea 
eggs for 10 minutes. Place to cool 
in a pan of cold water. Remove the 
shells, pack them in a crock, and 
when perfectly cold, pour the pic- 
kling liquid over -them. Lay over the 
top a folded cloth to keep the eggs 
under the pickling liquid, and tie 
over the top of the jar a thickness of 
cotton batting. They will be ready 
to use in about 4 weeks. 

Dried Eggs. — Break any quantity 
of eggs in a suitable receptacle, and 
beat them well with an egg beater. 
Spread out in a thin layer on a clean 
earthenware platter, and let them dry 
into a paste. Pack closely in glass 
jars and seal. 

Or pour the beaten eggs into glass 
jars and set the jar in a pan of hot 
water at about a temperature of 125° 
F. untU the moisture is evaporated 
and the egg becomes hard. Seal un- 
til required for use. They can then 
be dissolved with about 3 times their 



604 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



own bulk of cold water, and beaten 
up together, when they will be found 
to have retained much of their origi- 
nal flavor. 

STOBIIT& AND FBESEBVING VEGE- 
TABLES, FBTJIT, HUTS, AND HEBBS 

Conditions that cause vegetables to 
decay are moisture and heat, or fre- 
quent and extreme changes of tem- 
perature, as alternate freezing and 
thawing. These conditions are also 
favorable to the attacks of insects. 
Cold storage in a dry vault, with a 
temperature near or below the freez- 
ing point, is, of course, the best 
method. Cooperative cold storage 
plants, both large and small, the bene- 
fits of which may be shared by a 
group of neighbors or an entire com- 
munity, are likely in time to come to 
be very nranerous. But if cold stor- 
age is out of the question, a cool, dry 
place, where the temperature is likely 
to be as even as possible, should be 
sought for most vegetables. 

Vegetable Pits. — To preserve root 
crops — as beets, turnips, and par- 
snips, also cabbages — dig a trench on 
the north side of a sandy slope or 
ridge where the drainage is as per- 
fect as possible, so that after a storm 
no water will stand in the trench. 
Dig a trench two or three feet deep 
about the same in width, and any 
desired length. Pack the vegetables 
carefully in this. Pile them up in a 
pyramid like the ridge of the roof of 
a house. Cover with a layer about a 
foot thick of meadow hay or straw 
and throw enough earth lightly over 
the straw to keep it in place. After 
the first frosts in the fall cover with 
a layer of earth S or 6 inches thick, 
and in the latter part of November 
or about the 1st of December, cover 
solidly with earth to the depth of a 
foot or more. Remove the vegetables 
from one end as required for use and 
cover the opening with hay or straw 
and keep it in place with boards, or 
shovel snow over it. 

Ventilate these pits by means of 
6-inch tile drains or square boxes of 



6-inch boards nailed together. Insert 
these ventilators at intervals of 25 or 
SO feet in large pits and plug the 
opening with loose straw to keep out 
the frost. Otherwise there is danger 
of decay from moisture in the event 
of an early thaw. 

Or pull root crops, as turnips, 
beets, and the like on a Ijot, dry day 
and let them lie in the sun until all 
dirt can be shaken from the roots. 
Twist off the tops, leaving the tap 
root on. Pack them in clean, dry 
barrels or bins and fill vrith fine dry 
sand or road dust, shaking it down 
around them until the box or barrel 
is full. Root crops should not be 
packed on the floors of cellars, as 
dampness is likely to cause them to 
decay and furnish breeding places 
for bacteria that cause filth diseases. 

To Keep Celery. — In the latter part 
of October dig a trench 18 inches deep 
and 12 to IS inches wide on a dry, 
well-drained ridge. Loosen the earth 
about the roots of the celery and 
draw out the stalks without shaking 
off the soil that adheres to them. 
Stand them upright close together in 
the trench inclining slightly toward 
the middle, and draw the earth 
around them up to the tips. Cover 
with a thick layer of leaves, straw, 
or meadow hay, put a board across 
the top and weight with stones or 
otherwise. If there is any danger of 
standing water from rains or melt- 
ing snow, in winter, dig a ditch 
deeper than the celery trench for 
drainage. 

Vegetable Cellar. — To preserve 
small quantities of vegetables for do- 
mestic use, sink a half hogshead, cask, 
or large dry-goods box about two- 
thirds of its depth into the ground 
and slope the earth around it on all 
sides to the top. Knock the bottom 
out, and line the space with loose brick 
laid on the earth side by side or with 
a layer of loose stone. Fit it with a 
water-tight cover coming down over 
the edge. 

Pack in this such vegetables as cab- 
bage, celery, beets, turnips, etc. They 
will keep fresh all winter. 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 605 



When cold weather comes on, throw 
over the top a large bag of burlap or 
potato sacking made like a mattress 




"Sink a Cask in the Earth." 

and filled loosely with hay or straw. 
This can readily be removed to allow 
access and replaced after required 
vegetables have been taken out for 
use. 

To Store Onions. — Pull the onions 
and let them lie in the field until the 
tops are vdthered. Spread them un- 
der cover on an open floor or on slats 
until they are bone dry. 

The best receptacles for onions are 
slat boxes having solid heads of inch 
pine stuff, with sides and bottoms of 
rough laths, the width of one lath 
open between every two. These 
should be made to hold a bushel or 
half a bushel. Stack them one above 
the other, with pieces of inch pine 
stuff between to admit of free circu- 
lation of air. Pack these in a cool 
cellar on a platform raised 8 or 10 
inches from the cellar bottom. 

Or stack them in a shed or out- 
house. Make a bin around them of 
rough boards about 6 inches from the 
outside of the crates, and fill the 
space with chopped straw, chaff, or 
sawdust. Cover over the top with 
sand and throw over the whole any 
old burlap, carpet, or canvas that 
may be at hand. Thus protected it 
will do no harm if the onions freeze, 
as chaff or straw is a nonconducting 



material, and they will not thaw out 
until spring, and then very slowly. 
The same would be true in an ordi- 
nary cellar. 

Or small quantities may be packed 
in barrels or boxes in chaff or saw- 
dust, and stored in a dry attic which 
is not heated in winter. 

To Keep Parsnips. — Parsnips may 
be left in the ground all winter in 
temperate climates, or in very severe 
climates they may be buried in a deep 
pit in the garden. 

Or puU them late in the fall, leave 
the tips on, and lay them side by 
side in rows and cover with 6 or 
8 inches of coarse straw, leaves, or 
chaff. Freezing tends to improve their 
quality. 

Salsify. — Like parsnips, salsify is 
improved by freezing and hence may 
be preserved in the same manner. 

Turnips. — Turnips are not injured 
by freezing. Hence they may be 
packed in small crates, boxes, or bar- 
rels placed in an outhouse and cov- 
ered with straw to exclude the light 
and to prevent their thawing readily. 
Or they may be buried in trenches or 
packed in boxes or barrels between 
layers of fine earth and allowed to 
freeze. 

Beets. — Beets may be stored as for 
onions, but should be kept in a dry 
place and at as uniform a tempera- 
ture as possible. In small quantities 
they may be stored in any suitable 
receptacle in sand or dry moss. 

Squashes and Pumpkins. — These 
vegetables are very susceptible to 
frost arid moisture. Hence they 
should not be placed in cellars or 
outhouses. Hung by the stem from 
the ceiling in a warm, dry storeroom 
the hard-shelled varieties will keep 
practically all winter. 

To Store Tomatoes. — Pack green 
tomatoes in lath crates and store in 
a cool, dry storeroom away from the 
frost. 

To Store Potatoes. — Potatoes are 
usually stored in bins or barrels in a 
dark cellar; They should not be left 
in the field any longer than is neces- 
sary to dry them after being dug, as 



606 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



they are injured by exposure to di- 
rect sunshine. It is advisable to cover 
the bottom of the bin or barrel with 
a layer of fine, dry sand, throw over 
the top a piece of burlap and place 
a layer of sand on this. They should 
be examined once or twice a month 
during the winter, and if they com- 
mence to rot should be picked over, 
care being taken to handle them care- 
fully so as not to bruise them. 

To Keep Potatoes from Sprouting. 
To keep old potatoes not intended 
for seed from withering and sprout- 
ing, place them in a sack or handled 
basket and lower them into boiling 
water for a minute or two, moving 
them about so that the water will 
reach all parts of the surface. Lay 
them out on a flat surface to dry 
thoroughly before storing them away. 
The boUing water kills the germs. 

Potatoes thus treated will continue 
practically as good as new until new 
potatoes come in. By this process 
old potatoes can be held over imtil 
the market price is at its height. 

Or they can be preserved for do- 
mestic use when there are only new 
potatoes at high prices on the market. 

To Store Sweet Potatoes. — Pack in 
boxes or barrels on a very hot day in 
simimer in clean, dry sand. Take 
care that the potatoes do not touch 
one another, and place in a dry store- 
room where the temperature will 
range between 40° and 60° F. Care 
must be taken not to bruise them, and 
they must be bone dry when packed. 
SmaU quantities procured from deal- 
ers in winter may be kept in sand 
near the kitchen stove, or in any 
warm, dry place. 

To Store Cabbage. — Cabbages are 
not injured by frost, but vnther and 
wilt in a drying heat. Hence they 
should be kept in a cool, dark, and 
moist place, but must not be kept in 
standing water, as it injures their 
flavor, or packed together, else they 
will heat and rot. 

Cut them before the severe fall 
frosts, leaving about 3 inches or more 
of the stem attached. Let the out- 
side leaves remain on. Tie a strong 



cord about the stalks, and hang them 
from the timbers of the ceiling of a 
cool, dry cellar, heads downward. 
Several cabbages may be suspended 
on one cord one above another, and 
in this way a large number can be 
stored in an ordinary cellar, just 
enough space being left among them 
to admit of a, circulation of air. 

Or pack in sawdust in large casks 
or packing cases. Take care to have 
a layer of several inches of sawdust 
between the cabbages and the box. 
Put them in any outhouse and let 
them freeze. Sawdust being a non- 
conductor, they will not thaw out un- 
til spring, and will not be injured. 

Or cabbages may be stored out of 
doors by loosening the earth about 
the roots and pulling them up with- 
out shaking off the dirt which ad- 
heres. Now set them out in furrows, 
burying the roots just as they grow 
up to the head in soU. Let the heads 
touch. Drive posts in the ground, 
build a shed roof over them of rough 
boards or poles high enough so that 
there will be circulation of air be- 
tween the roof and the cabbages, and 
cover the roof with corn fodder or 
straw. Pack straw or meadow hay 
around the sides to keep out the 
snow, and let them freeze. They will 
keep green and fresh aU winter. 

Sauerkraut. — Sauerkraut consists 
of sliced cabbage laid down between 
layers of common salt — at the rate of 
about one pint of salt to a barrel of 
cabbage — ^in a wooden tub or firkin, 
and with the addition of black pep- 
per, anise, mustard, caraway, or cel- 
ery seed if desired. 

Thoroughly scald the tub, firkin, or 
cask. Remove the outer leaves of the 
cabbage and use them to line the 
cask. Slice the heart of the cabbage 
fine by means of a slaw cutter or 
sharp knife. Place a layer of clean 
leaves on the bottom of the cask. 
Sprinkle over them a small handful 
of salt and put in a layer of sliced 
cabbage about 6 inches in depth, 
using the outer leaves as a lining to 
keep the sliced cabbage from the sides 
of the cask. Sprinkle over the cab- 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 607 



bage a small handful of salt, and by 
means of a wooden beetle or the end 
of a round stick of hard wood, pound 
the cabbage until it is a solid mass, 
or untU the juice just makes its ap- 
pearance, but do not pound or salt 
the cabbage too much. Now add an- 
other layer of cabbage and another 
handful of salt, and so continue 
pounding down each layer solidly 
until the cask is nearly full. 

Cover .the top over with the loose 
outer leaves, and lay over these sev- 
eral thicknesses of cheese cloth. Lay 
on a loose cover of boards and on this 
a weight of stone equal to 25 or 30 
pounds. Let the cask stand in a 
warm place for. three or four weeks, 
during which it will ferment and give 
off at first a very disagreeable odor. 
After forty-eight hours, if brine has 
not been formed, add a little salt 
water, about as salt as tears, to cover 
the cabbage. After two days more, 
add more salt water, if necessary, 
until brine forms over the top of the 
board cover and a scum appears. 
Remove the cloth cover, taking the 
brine with it, rinse thoroughly in 
cold water, wring dry, and return to 
its place. Continue to do this every 
few days untU it ceases to ferment. 
This will require four or five weeks. 
It is then ready for use and may be 
stored in any cool, dark place. 

Sauerkraut is usually made in the 
fall for winter use, but if it is desired 
to keep what is left for use in sum- 
mer, squeeze out the brine through 
cheese cloth. Select a suitable earth- 
enware jar, sprinkle the bottom with 
salt and pack the sauerkraut in this. 
Make a brine by dissolving 1 table- 
spoonful of salt to a quart of cold 
water. Bring to a boU over a slow 
fire removing the scum as it rises. Set 
aside to cool and pour over the sauer- 
kraut. Lay over the top several 
thicknesses of cheese cloth, and tie 
over the jar a piece of cotton batting. 
This will keep until the hottest days 
of summer. 

Cauliflower. — In a well-drained 
part of the garden dig a ditch 13 or 
15 inches deep and 12 inches wide. 



Pack the cauliflowers in this with the 
roots down and cover with earth up 
to the heads. Fill the trench with hay 
or straw 6 or 8 inches thick, and 
weight it down with stone, earth, or 
boards. 

Or pack the cauliflowers on the cel- 
lar bottom, burying the roots and 
stalks in earth. In this way they can 
be kept until the 1st of March or 
later. 

To Store Green Beans. — Pack down 
green string beans in glass jars be- 
tween layers of salt. Seal the jars. 
When required for use, freshen in 
clear water for several hours, chang- 
ing the water frequently. 

To Store Green Peas. — Select 
shelled peas that are fuU grown but 
not hard and dry them in a dripping 
pan in a very slow oven or on the back 
of the stove. Let them dry slowly, 
stirring them frequently, and do not 
have them too thick in the pan. Con- 
tinue the heat until they are hard 
and dry as bone. Pack in glass or 
stone jars. Seal and keep in a dry 
place. Let soak overnight in cold 
water before boiling. 

To Store Dry Beans. — ^Dry shelled 
beans should be stored in a dry, cool 
place, and wUl not require protec- 
tion unless they become infested with 
bugs. In that case place the beans 
in a coarse sack or basket and dip 
them in boiling water for a minute or 
two. Hang up to drip dry and they 
will not only be free from insects but 
will also keep better. 

To Store Lima Beans. — Gather lima 
beans before they ripen, and while 
they are still tender and green. 
Spread them on cloths in the sun to 
dry. 

To Dry Peas. — Pick over the peas 
and remove any pods that are mil- 
dewed or spotted. Spread the pods 
to dry on cloths in the sun. 

To Store Peas. — Store shelled peas 
in any dry place. They wUl keep un- 
less they become infested with wee- 
vils. In that cas^ put them in a tin 
dripping pan, cover, place in a glow 
oven and heat until the weevils are 
killed. 



608 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



To Dry Corn. — Cut the corn raw 
from the cob and dry it thoroughly 
in pans in an oven. This gives a finer 
flavor than when it is partly boiled. 

Or dip green corn on the ear in 
boiling water, remove, and hang up 
the ears until dry in a room where 
there is a free circulation of air. 

Or husk and clean the silk from the 
corn. Place the ears in a colander 
over a kettle of steaming water, and 
steam a half hour or more. Split the 
kernels with a sharp knife, scrape out 
the pulp and dry it on clean tins or 
earthenware platters. Care must be 
taken not to scorch or brown it. 

Or husk and clean the corn, shave 
off the kernels with a sharp knife, 
scrape the remaining pulp from the 
cobs, and lay on earthenware plat- 
ters. Sprinkle J teacupful of sugar 
to each 3 quarts of corn, stir weU and 
place in a medium hot oven for ten 
minutes, but do not scorch or brown 
it. Remove and spread to dry in a 
drying rack or under a hotbed sash. 
It should be dried as quickly as pos- 
sible as it deteriorates with exposure. 
Store in tight jars or boxes in a dry 
place. When required for use soak 
it in lukewarm water. 

Preserving Green Peas. — Shell and 
pick over the peas. Cover them with 
cold water and bring to a boU. Pour 
them into a sieve or colander to drain. 
Crush the pea pods in a saucepan or 
run them through a meat cutter, and 
pour over them a little of the water 
in which the peas were boUed. Pack 
the peas into glass jars. Salt the 
juice from the pea pods to taste, 
pour it boUing hot over the peas and 
seal. 

Or shell and pick over the peas, 
place them in a kettle of cold water 
and bring to a boil for two or three 
minutes only. Remove from the boil- 
ing water and let them drip dry. 
Now spread them out on a cloth on 
a table or other smooth surface. Lay 
over them another dry cloth to re- 
move all moisture. Pack them in 
jelly tumblers or fruit jars, and pour 
over them clarified butter or mutton 
suet to the depth of an inch. Tie 



over the top a. piece of cotton batting 
and store in a cool place until re- 
quired for use. 

Or shell and pick over the peas 
when full grown, but not hard, and 
dry them in shallow earthenware 
plates in a slow oven. Stir frequently 
and let them dry slowly. When they 
are hard, set them aside to cool and 
pack them in stone jars covered with 
cotton batting. Soak in cold water 
when required for use. 

Xo Dry Pumpkins. — Prepare the 
ripe fruit, cut into cubes about as 
large as the rind is thick, discarding 
the inner pulp and seeds. Cook until 
soft and squeeze through a colander. 
Dry in a slow oven with the doors 
open, on earthenware plates covered 
to the depth of about an inch. This 
wiU require eight or ten hours. Store 
the sheets in a dry place and soak 
overnight in milk when required for 
use. 

To Dry Khubarb. — To dry the 
stalks of rhubarb, first strip off the 
outer skin with a sharp knife. This 
is a painstaking process, but it pays 
as the rhubarb dries more quickly 
and thoroughly. Spread on cloths in 
the sun, preferably under a hotbed 
sash, and dry as quickly as possible. 

To Cure Hhubarb Root. — PuU up 
the roots from the old rhubarb bed 
when a new bed has been set out. 
Brush off the earth with a dry brush, 
and cut the roots into squares 3 
inches long. Take off the skin with 
a sharp knife. Bore a hole through 
the middle and run a string through 
them, knotting it so as to keep each 
piece of root separate from the 
others. String these between suitable 
posts or pegs upon the ground, and 
expose to the sun to dry. Take them 
indoors at night or when it rains, as 
dampness is apt to cause mold. 

To Dry Parsley. — To have bright, 
crisp parsley, pick it in dry weather. 
Spread it thinly on a platter and 
bake it in a moderate oven with the 
doors open, turning frequently. If 
the oven is not too hot, the leaves will 
become dry and brittle without losing 
their green color. Take care that the 



PEESERVATION OF MEAT AND VEGETABLES 609 



heat is not sufficient to turn the leaves 
brown or they will be spoiled. Now 
rub it to powder between the palms 
of the handsj pick out the stalks, sift 
the powder through a coarse sieve, 
place it in a glass bottle or jar and 
cork tightly. Keep in a dry place. A 
peck or more of the parsley should 
be gathered, as it is reduced very 
much in bulk by drying. The dry 
powder is suitable for most purposes 
for which fresh parsley is employed, 
and is much more convenient. 

To Dry Herbs. — Herbs should be 
' gathered in dry weather, carefully 
picked over and dried as quickly as 
possible, either in a slow oven or un- 
der a hotbed sash. They should be 
spread out thin on sheets of blotting 
paper and turned occasionally. Fresh 
herbs are, of course, to be preferred, 
but as they are not obtainable in win- 
ter it is necessary to preserve them 
by drying. ' 

The season at which herbs are best 
fit to be preserved by drying varies 
with different species. Orange flow- 
ers, elder flowers, parsley and chervil 
in May, June, and July; burnet and 
tarragon in June, July, and August; 
knotted marjoram and mint in July; 
summer savory, July and August; 
basil, winter savory, and lemon thyme, 
the end of July and August. 

The aromatic herbs must not be 
exposed to too great heat, as other- 
wise the essential oils which give them 
their flavor will be volatilized. After 
being dried, the herbs should be 
screened through a large sieve to re- 
move dust and other impurities, the 
stems removed, and the leaves stored 
in glass bottles. All of the above 
herbs will be found useful condiments 
in cookery, and several of them have 
medicinal qualities. These and many 
others can also be obtained of drug- 
gists and other dealers. 

To Gather Boots. — Most medicinal 
and other roots should be gathered in 
the spring and are, as a rule, better 
in the fresh than in the dry state. To 
dry them it is only necessary to brush 
off the dust with a dry brush, rinse 
the roots in cold water, string them 



together and expose them to the heat 
of the sun or in a slow oven imtil 
bone dry. 

lath Boxes for Vegetables and 
Truit.— Cut end pieces of inch thick 
pine stuff 14 inches long and 12 
inches deep. Cut laths ITJ inches 
long which will give two pieces for 
each lath. Tack these laths to the 
end pieces to form two sides and the 
bottom, having the thickness of one 
lath between every two. Cut holes 
about 3J inches long and 1 inch or 
more deep in the two ends about 3 
or 4 inches from the top as handles, 
and use these boxes for picking up 
apples, potatoes, onions, and other 
vegetables, and storing them for win- 
ter use. 

Packing Pruit. — Carefully pick 
over the fruit and discard all wind- 
falls, and specked or wormy speci- 
mens. For an extra fine quality, 
wrap each fruit in tissue paper. 
Pack in clean, dry, flour barrels and 
pour over the top dry sand or road 
dust, shaking it down until the barrel 
is full. Place the barrels in a cellar 
or other cool place where they will 
not freeze. 

Evaporated Apples. — To dry or 
evaporate apples, peel and core them 
and cut across in thin slices. Let the 
slices fall into cold water to prevent 
their rusting. When all are sliced, 
and in readiness, lay the slices on a 
large piece of cheese cloth and baste 
them to this by means of a darning 
needle and suitable cotton thread, 
taking a stitch through each slice, so 
that it will lie flat and keep in place. 
Suspend the cheese cloth out of doors 
by the four corners to suitable stakes, 
high enough to be out of the reach of 
small animals, spread another thick- 
ness of cheese cloth over the fruit 
and expose to direct sunlight. Be 
sure to take them in before dew 
falls. When sufficiently dry store 
them in a dark place. This Is the 
cheapest and most convenient way to 
dry apples, and the color will be 
nearly equal to that of the commer- 
cial article. 
Or thin trays or slats about l of an 



610 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



inch in width may be tacked together, 
the apples spread on these and cov- 
ered with cheese cloth to prevent the 
fruit turning dark. 

Storing Nuts. — Pack walnuts in 
jars, boxes, or casks between layers of 
fine dry sand. If they have become 
shriveled, let them stand overnight in 
skimmed milk or a solution of milk 
and water. Chestnuts and filberts 
may also be stored in the same 
manner. 

Almonds. — Buy for domestic use 
the sweet almond, as the bitter al- 



mond contains prussic acid which is 
a deadly poison. To freshen almonds 
place them while stUl in the shells in 
a colander set in a basin of cold wa- 
ter and bring to a boil. Lift them 
out, peel them as quickly as possible 
and drop the kernels into cold water. 
Never leave almonds in boiling water 
to cool as it is likely to make them 
bitter. 

To roast almonds for salting or 
bonbons, put them in an ordinary 
corn popper and shake them over a 
brisk fire. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES— LINEAR OR LONG MEASURE— SQUARE 
OR SUPERFiaAL MEASURE — SURVEYORS' AND LAND MEAS- 
URE—CUBIC OR CAPACITY MEASURE— WOOD, LUMBER AND 
BOARD MEASURE— MEASUREMENT OF STONE AND BRICK — 
DRY AND LIQUID MEASURE— MEASURES OF WEIGHT— COOKS' 
TABLE OF PROPORTIONS— CIRCULAR MEASURE— LONGITUDE 
AND TIME— MEASURES OF VALUE-UNITED STATES MONEY- 
ENGLISH OR STERLING MONEY— METRIC SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS 
AND MEASURES. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

There are four principal classes of 
weights and measures, namely: Meas- 
ures of Length, of Surface, of Vol- 
ume, and of Weight. In addition to 
these are measures of value as ap- 
plied to money and coinage — meas- 
urement of time, temperature, and 
others. The principle underlying the 
use of weights and measures is that 
of reference to an agreed unit as 
standard. Some distinct means of de- 
termining quantity is essential to the 
most primitive forms of human so- 
ciety. Hence, the use of weights and 
measures is very ancient. As the ap- 
plications of this principle have in- 
creased in number and importance 
with advancing civilization, a great 
variety of different units as standards 
of measurement, adapted to different 
purposes, have been introduced. .The 
result is a great degree of confusion 
in the common mind on this subject 
which entails enormous loss and ex- 
pense in all commercial business. An 
attempt has been made by scientific 
men to remedy this condition by the 
introduction of the metric system, 
but thus far this system has not 
come into general use in the English- 
speaking world. 

At present the units in general use 
in the United States are as follows: 
of measures of length, the unit for 



carpentrj' and mechanics is the foot. 
This is subdivided into inches and 
lines, or inches, halves, quarters, and 
so on. The unit for textile fabrics is 
the yard divided into quarters and 
nails. For field surveying, the chain 
divided into links and decimals. For 
road measure, the mile divided into 
furlongs and rods. The units of 
square or superficial measure are the 
squares of these with the addition as 
a unit for land measure of the acre. 
Of capacity measures, the units for 
liquids are the gallon, quart, pint, and 
gill. For cereals and other dry sub- 
stances, the bushel and peck. For fire 
wood, the cord. The unit of weight 
for ordinary commerce is the avoir- 
dupois pound, divided into halves, 
quarters, and so on; or, for large 
masses, into the quarter, hundred, 
and ton. The unit for bullion, plate, 
and coin, or jewelers' measure, is the 
pound troy which is irregularly di- 
vided. The unit for drugs and medi- 
cines, or apothecaries' measure, is a 
pound equal to the pound troy but 
differently subdivided. Jewelers also 
make use of a unit for the measure- 
ment of gems called the carat. 

Origin of Standards. — The deriva- 
tion of the original units of linear 
measurement appears to have been 
from comparison with various parts 
of the human body. The use of the 
foot seems to have originated in 



611 



612 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



Greece, the standard, according to tra- 
dition, having been taken from the 
foot of Hercules. The natural mode 
of measuring various distances by 
counting one's steps, which is still oc- 
casionally made use of for rough 
measures, early gave rise to the pace 
as a unit or standard. Hence, the 
Roman mille passuum, 1,000 paces, 
from which has been derived the mile 
of the present day. The ancient cubit 
is taken from the length of the fore- 
arm. This is still a standard of meas- 
urement in many Eastern coimtries.' 
The ell, a term used in Europe down 
to our own time for cloth measure, is 
also derived from the forearm. The 
English yard, from an old English 
term meaning to gird, signifies the 
girdle or circumference of the body. 
The fathom is from an old English 
word meaning to embrace and signi- 
fies the length of two arms. The 
breadth of the hand or palm is still 
used as a standard in the measure- 
ment of the height of horses. The 
nail and the thumb's breadth have 
also been frequently made use of. 

Measurements of weight were a 
much later introduction. The wheat- 
corn or grain of wheat, required by 
law to be taken from the middle of 
the ear, was used in England as a 
standard of weight until within mod- 
ern times. With the introduction of 
modern science, the length of a pen- 
dulum measuring seconds under cer- 
tain prescribed conditions has been 
taken as a linear standard. And the 
weight of a. prescribed quantity of 
water under certain conditions has 
been taken as a standard of weight. 
The standard of solid measure has 
also been similarly determined. 

The unit of the metric system is the 
meter, intended to be one ten mil- 
lionth of the distance from the equa- 
tor to the pole. This unit has been 
agreed upon as a standard by the 
principal European nations and has 
been accepted by Great Britain and 



> Among the Israelites the cubit was divided 
into two spans, the si>ans into three palms, the 

Ealms into four digits, the order gf o^tutQ 
eing adhered to throughout. 



the United States, although its use is 
not compulsory in either of those 
countries. The standard units em- 
ployed by the United States Govern- 
ment at Washington are themselves 
corrected by reference to the interna- 
tional meter. Hence, the metric sys- 
tem is actually the ultimate standard 
in the United States. It is to be very 
much regretted that the use of the 
metric system has not become univer- 
sal. At present, it is employed by 
somewhat more than half the popula- 
tion of the civilized world. 

LIITEAB OB LONG U£AS1TBE 

linear Measure. — ^The standard of 
linear, or long measure, is the length 
of a pendulum that will vibrate in a 
vacuum, at the sea level in London, 
at 63° F., once in a second. Scientists 
have determined that such a pendu- 
lum is nearly 39.1393 inches in length ; 
fj of this is taken as a standard yard. 
The standard yard of the United 
States is a metiil bar kept at Wash- 
ington. It is identical with the Eng- 
lish imperial yard. Subdivisions and 
multiples of this are shown in the fol- 
lowing table: 

12 inches 1 foot. 

3 feet 1 yard. 

5i yards 1 rod, pole, or 

perch. 

40 poles 1 furlong. 

8 furlongs 1 mile. 

320 rods 1 mile. 

1760 yards 1 mile. 

5280 feet 1 mile. 

3 miles 1 league. 

69A miles 1 degree of a great 

circle of the earth 

The mile is commonly divided into 
halves, fourths, eighths, etc. The fur- 
long (% of a mile) is seldom used. 

A league is 3 miles, but its length 
is variable, for it is, strictly speak- 
ing, a nautical term, and should be 
3 geographical miles, equal to 3.45 
statute miles; but when used on land, 
3 statute miles are said to be a 
league. 

The length of a degree of latitude 
varies; 69.16 miles is the average 
length, and is that adopted by the 
United States Coast Survey. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



613 



less Common Linear Measnres. — 
Additional linear measures less com- 
monly used are the following: 

48 hair's breadths 1 inch. 

3 barley corns 1 inch. 

3 inches 1 paJm. 

4 inches 1 hand. 

IS inches 1 Bnglish cubit. 

21.888 inches 1 Bible cubit. 

2i feet 1 military pace. 

3 feet 1 common pace. 

3.28 feet 1 meter. 

11 feet 1 great cubit. 

In biblical and other old measure- 
ments, the term span is sometimes 
used, which is a length of 9 inches. 

The sacred cubit of the Jews was 
24.034 inches in length. 

The common cubit of the Jews was 
21.704 inches in length. 

Horses are measured directly over 
the forefeet, and the standard of 
measure is 4 inches — called a hand. 

Subdivisions of the Inch. — Tool 
cutters and other machinists engaged 
in fine metal work, scientists, revenue 
officers, and some others, divide the 
inch decimally, i. e., into tenths, hun- 
dredths, etc. Carpenters and mechan- 
ics engaged in rough work divide the 
inch into eighths or sixteenths. 

The former custom of dividing the 
inch into twelve parts, called lines, has 
gone out of use. 

Following are equivalents of the 
decimal parts of a foot in inches: 



Decimal 


Fractions 


Decimal 


Fractions 


value 


of a foot 


value 


of a foot 


infect. 


in inches. 


in feet. 


in inches. 


.01041 




.25 


3 


.02083 




.3333 


4 


.03125 


.4166 


5 


.04166 




.5 


6 


.05208 


.5833 


7 


.0625 


1 


.6666 


8 


.07291 


.75 


g 


.0833 


1 


.8333 


10 


.1666 


2 


.9166 


11 



Nautical Measure. — In addition to 
the above a distinct table of measure- 
ments is used by geographers and 
mariners as follows: 

6 feet 1 fathom. 

110 fathoms, or 660 feet. . . 1 furlong, 

120 fathoms 1 cable's length. 

6086.7 feet 1 nautical mfle. 

3 nautical miles 1 league. 

20 lea., or 60 naut. miles. 1 degree. 
360 degrees The earth's cir- 
cumference = 
24,865i miles 
nearly. 



The nautical mile is also called the 
geographical mile or for brevity the 
knot. It is 795f feet longer than 
the common mile. 

Cloth Measure. — Another mode of 
measurement formerly much used by 
merchants on the continent of Europe 
and in colonial times in this country 
is as follows: 

2i inches 1 nail. 

4 nails 1 quarter of a yd. 

4 quarters 1 yard. 

1 aunze 1} yard. 

Foreign Cloth Measure 

2i quarters 1 ell Hamburg. 

3 quarters 1 ell Flemish. 

5 quarters 1 ell English. 

6 quarters 1 ell French. 

4:^ quarters 1 ell Scotch. 

An Amsterdam ell is equal to 26.796 inches. 
A Trieste ell is equal to 25.284 inches. 
A Brabant ell is equal to 27.116 inches. 

In measuring cloth, ribbon, etc., the 
width is not considered, and the yard 
is now usually divided into halves, 
fourths, eighths, and sixteenths. In 
the United States custom house the 
yard is divided into tenths and hun- 
dredths. 

Scales for Linear Measure. — The 
many occasions that a standard of 
linear measure is required suggest 
the utility of having always at hand 
a scale from which a yardstick or 
other measure can be constructed. 
Carpenters, mechanics, and farmers 
frequently make it a practice to carry 
a jointed yardstick in the pocket. It 
is convenient to glue a yard measure 
on the edge of a carpenter's bench or 
a sewing table, or to indicate the di- 
vision into inches or fractions of an 
inch by means of small brass brads 
driven in flush with the surface and 
rubbed to a polish with emery pa- 
per. Sailors not infrequently tattoo a 
yard measure on the outer side of the 
left arm beginning at the point of the 
little finger, the subdivisions being 
pricked into the skin in India ink. 
This device will be found useful to 
farmers, mechanics, and others. 
Builders, paper hangers, and others, 
engaged in the building trades, find a 
narrow steel measure, a rod or more 
in length, winding up in a suitable 



614 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



circular case by means of a spring 
or crank, a very convenient contriv- 
ance. 

SQUABE OB STTFEBFICIAL UEASUBE 

Square Ueasnre. — Square or super- 
ficial measure is employed by carpen- 
ters, masons, and others, in the build- 
ing trades, in house furnishing and 
decoration, and notably in surveying 
and the measurement of land. 

The ordinary square measure for 
carpenters, masons, and others is as 
follows : 

144 sq. inches 1 sq. foot. 

9 sq. feet, or 1,296 sq. 

inches 1 sq. yard. 

100 sq. feet 1 sq. of flooring, 

roofing, etc. 
36 sq. yards Iroodof building 

Carpenters, architects, and mechan- 
ics often write 8" for 8 inches, and 5' 
for S feet. They also use sq." and sq.' 
for square inches and square feet. 

Plastering, ceiling, etc., are com- 
monly estimated by the square yard; 
paving, glazing, and stone cutting by 
the square foot; roofing, flooring, and 
slating by the square 100 feet. 

Cost of Lathing. — Laths are 4 feet 
long, IJ inches wide, and are laid | 
inch apart at the sides, and close 
together at the ends. A bunch of lath 
contains 100 pieces, and is estimated 
to cover S square yards of surface. 

Cost of Clapboarding and Shing- 
ling. — Clapboards are usually cut 4 
feet long and 6 inches wide, and are 
put up in bundles of twenty-five each. 

Shingles are estimated at 9 shingles, 
laid 4 inches to the weather, to the 
square foot. Allowing for waste and 
defects, 1,000 shingles are estimated 
to cover 100 square feet, called a 
square. In practice, 1,000 shingles of 
the best quality will cover 125 square 
feet. 

Or to find the number of shingles 
required in a roof: multiply the num- 
ber of square feet in the roof by 9 if 
the shingles are exposed 4 inches, by 
8 if exposed 4i inches, or by 7J if ex- 
posed 5 inches. 

To find the number of square feet. 



multiply the length of the roof by 
twice the length of the rafters. 

To find the length of the rafters at 
J pitch, multiply the width of the 
building by .56 (hundredths); at J 
pitch by .6 (tenths) ; at § pitch by 
.64 (hundredths) ; at J pitch by .71 
(hundredths). This gives the length 
of the rafters from the apex to the 
end of the wall, and whatever they are 
to project must be taken into consid- 
eration. 

By J or J pitch is meant that the 
apex or comb of the roof is to be J 
to J the width of the building higher 
than the walls or base of the rafters. 

Measurement of Wall Surfaces. — 
A common application of square 
measure in the household is in esti- 
mating material and labor for the 
treatment of wall surfaces by paper 
hanging, plastering, painting, or cal- 
cimining. All of these are usually 
computed by the square yard. 

Wall paper is sold by the roll, 
which is usually 18 inches vride and 8 
yards in length. Or in double rolls 
of the same width, 16 yards long. 
These are counted as 3 rolls each. 
They economize waste in cutting. 

These are the dimensions of most 
wall papers made in America, and 
may be taken for granted unless 
otherwise specified. Imported papers 
differ as to the length and width of 
the roll. 

Borders or friezes are sold by the 
yard. They vary in width from 3 
inches upward. 

Cost of Hanging Wall Paper. — It 
is not possible, as a rule, to find in 
advance the exact cost of papering a 
room. The measurement of the room 
will, however, assist in making an es- 
timate of the number of rolls re- 
quired. The actual number to be paid 
for can be determined only after the 
papering has been done. Then all 
rolls that have been cut must be paid 
for, the uncut rolls being, as a rule, 
allowed to be returned. 

When estimating the number of 
roUs of paper required for papering 
a room of ordinary height (i.e., if 
the distance, from the baseboard to 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



615^ 



the border is not more than 8 feet), 
first measure around the room, leaving 
out the widths of the doors and win- 
dows; then allow one double roll or 
two single rolls for every 7 feet. 
• Or by another method, measure 
around the room in yards. The num- 
ber of strips required will be just 
about double the number of yards. 
Find how many strips can be cut 
from a roll and divide the number of 
strips required to go around the room 
by the number that can be cut from 
a roU. The result will be the number 
of rolls. 

Cost of Plastering, Papering, and 
Calcimining. — These are measured 
by the square yard. Allowances are 
sometimes made either in whole or 
part for the area of openings, for 
baseboards, and the Hke. But there 
is no uniform rule respecting these 
allowances. Custom varies so greatly 
that it is better to make a written 
contract to govern the final settle- 
ment. The surfaces of the walls of a 
room may be found by multiplying 
the sum of the lengths of the four 
sides changed to square units by the 
height. 

Cost of Carpeting Booms. — Car- 
peting and matting is in various 
widths, commonly 1 yard or | of a 
yard in width, and is sold by the yard. 
Oilcloth and linoleum come in various 
widths and are sold by the square 
yard. 

The niunher of yards of carpeting 
required for a room depends on the 
size of the room, the directions in 
which the strips run, and the loss 
caused by matching the figures. 
Hence it is necessary to decide first 
whether the strips shall run length- 
wise or across the room; next, how 
much will be wasted in matching the 
pattern; and finally the number of 
strips required. The nimiber of yards 
in a strip, including the waste in 
matching the pattern, multiplied by 
the nimiber of strips, will give the 
number of yards required. In large 
carpet stores, loss in matching the 
figures is sometimes avoided by cut- 
ting strips from different rolls. Waste 



may also occur from turning under 
carpets that are too wide, and from 
borders. If borders are put all 
around the carpet, the corners must 
be counted twice, because one half of 
each corner is wasted in the making. 

STTBVETOBS' AND LAND MEASTTBS 

Land Heasure. — The same table 
with certain additions as follows is 




1615 FT = I ROD 

"Ordinary Land Measure." 

used for ordinary land or surface 
measure : 

144 sq. inches 1 sq. foot. 

9 sq. feet 1 sq. yard, 

30i sq. yards 1 sq. rod or perch 

40 sq. perches 1 rood. 

4 roods 1 acre. 

640 acres 1 sq. mUe. 

Surveyors' measure. — In addition, 
the following table based upon Gun- 
ter's Chain, which is 4 rods or 66 feet, 
is employed for land surveying. An 
engineer's chain, used by civil engi- 
neers, is 100 feet long, and consists of 
100 links. 

7.92 inches ] link. 

25 links 1 rod. 

100 links 1 .chain. 

66 feet 1 chain. 

4 rods 1 chain. 

10 sq. chains—lGO sq. rods 1 acre. 

80 chains 1 mile. 

640 acres 1 sq. mile. 

625 sq. links 1 sq. pole. 

16 sq. poles 1 sq. chain. 

10 sq. chains 1 acre. 

sq. mi. A. sq. rd. sq. yd. sq. ft. 

1 = 640 = 102400 = 3097600 - 27878400 

sq. in. 

4014489600 

Scale.— 640, 160, 30i, 9, 144. 

The term perch or pole is some- 
times used instead of square rod. 
The rood, 40 perches, or i acre, is 
found in old title deeds and surveys. 

Bules for Land Measure. — The fol- 
lowing rules and suggestions may 
be of assistance in measuring land. 



616 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Measure 309 feet on each side and the 
result will be a square acre within 
an inch. 

To find the number of acres in any 
plot of land when the number of rods 
is given, divide the number of rods by 
8, multiply the quotient by 6, and re- 
move the decimal point two places to 
the left. To find how many rods in 
length will make an acre when the 
width in rods is given, divide 160 by 
the width in rods and the quotient 
will be the answer. 

To find the number of acres in a 
body of land having square corners 
and parallel sides, ascertain the length 
and the width in rods, multiply these 
numbers and divide the product by 
160, the number of square rods in an 
acre. If there is a remainder, carry 
out to two decimal places. The result 
will be the answer in acres and hun- 
dredths. If opposite sides of a piece 
of land are of unequal length add 
them together and take i as the mean 
length or width. 

To measure a triangular field, mul- 
tiply the length of the longest side in 
rods by the greatest width in rods; 
take i the product and divide by 
160. To measure any field of irregu- 
lar outline, provided the sides are 
straight, divide the field into triangles 
and measure each triangle by this 
rule. But if the sides are crooked 
make a number of parallel measure- 
ments across the field at places equal 
distances apart, add them, and divide 
the total by the number of measure- 
ments made; this will give the mean 
length; similar measurements in the 
opposite direction will give the mean 
width. Multiply the two results and 
divide by 160. 

To find the surface of a circular 
field, measure the diameter in rods, 
multiply the diameter by itself and 
the result by 7.854 and divide by 160. 

To lay Out aa Acre. — An acre of 
land contains 160 square rods or 
43,560 square feet. To lay out an acre 
at right angles, i.e., square corners, 
one side being known, divide the 
square contents of an acre by the 
length of the known side, taking care 



that both are expressed in the same 
kind of units. For example: if one 
side is known to be 4 rods, divide 
160, the number of square rods in 
an acre, by 4 and the quotient will 
be 40 rods or the depth of the acre 
plot. 

Or, if the length of the known side 
is 180 feet, divide 43,560, the number 
of square feet in an acre, by 180 and 
the result will be 242 or the depth of 
the acre plot in feet. 

The following table will be found 
convenient for reference: 

A. R. Rds. Sq. Yds. Sq. Ft. Sq. In. 

1 = 4=160=4840 =43560 =6272640 

1= 40=1210 =10890 =1568160 

1= 30}= 272i= 39204 

1 = 9 = 1296 

1 = 144 

Estimate of Waste Land. — A 
standard English mile, which is the 
measure that we use, is 6,380 feet in 
length, 1,760 yards, or 330 rods. A 
strip 1 rod wide and 1 mile long is 
2 acres. By this it is easy to calcu- 
late the quantity of land taken up by 
roads, and also how much is wasted 
by fences. 

United States Government Land 
Measure. — Government surveys in 
this country are made with references 
to a principal meridian running north 
and south, of which there are 24 in 
the United States. A base line is run 
east and west at right angles with 
the meridian. The land is then di- 
vided by means of lines running par- 
allel with these into sections 6 miles 
on each side. These are called town- 
ships. A line of townships running 
north and south is called a range. It 
is designated by a number east or 
west from the principal meridian. 
Each township Is divided into 36 
sections. These are each 1 mile 
square and contain 640- acres. The 
sections are all numbered from 1 to 
36, commencing at the northeast cor- 
ner. They are further subdivided 
into quarters, which are named by 
the cardinal points, and the quarters 
are again subdivided in the same way. 
The following table will be found 
convenient for reference; 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



617 



1 township, 6 miles square 36 sections. 

1 section, 1 mile square G40 acres. 

1 quarter section, i mile square . . 160 acres. 

I eighth section, i mile long, 

north and south, i mile wide.. . 80 acres. 
A section, i mile square 40 acres. 

Most of the Western States have 
been laid out on this plan by the 
Government. All titles, except city 
lots, are established under this survey. 

Comparative Land Measure. — The 
standard acre varies in the different 
countries of the world and allowance 
must be made for this difference in 
statements of the products of the- 
land per acre in various countries. 
The Same land measure is used in this 
country as in England. The com- 
parative size of the different units of 
land measure of different countries, in 
square yards, is given as follows: 

English acre 4.S40 aq. yards. 

Scotch acre 6,150 sq. yards. 

Irish acre 7,840 sq. yards. 

Hamburg acre 11,545 sq. yards. 

Amsterdam acre 9,722 sq. yards. 

Dantzic acre 6,650 sq. yards. 

France (hectare) acre 11,960 sq. yards. 

Prussia (morgen) acre 3,053 sq. yards. 

This difference should be borne in 
mind in reading of the products per 
acre in different countries. Our land 
measure is that of England. 

In Texas, New Mexico, and other 
Spanish sections of , the United States, 
the Spanish land measures are still in 
use. The unit of length is the vara, 
equal in Texas to 33J inches, in Cali- 
fornia to 33 inches, and in Mexico to 
32.9927 inches. Counting 33J inches 
to the vara, 108 varas = 100 yards, 
and 1900.8 varas ==: 1 mile. 

Land is measured in square varas, 
labors, and square leagues. 

1,000,000 sq. varas =1 labor = 177.136 acres. 
25 labors = 1 sq.lea, =4428.4 acres. 
1 acre — 5645.376 sq. varas. 

Dimensions of Acre Plots. — The 
following are approximate measures 
of an acre plot: 

3 by B3i rods is 1 acre. 

4 by 40 rods is 1 acre. 

5 by 32 rods is >...'.. 1 acre. 

6 by 26f rods is 1 acre. 

7 by 22? rods is 1 acre. 

8 by 20 rods is 1 acre. 

9 by 17f rods is 1 acre. 

10 by 16 rods is 1 acre. 

II by 14j°r rods is 1 acre. 

12 by 13i rods is 1 acre. 



Twelve rods 10 feet and 8J inches 
square make an acre. 

Dimensions of Small lots. — The 
following are approximate measures 
of plots less than an acre: 



Fraction 
of an acre. 


Square feet. 


Feet square. 


A 


2722 i 


62i 




5445 


73 


10890 


104 




14520 


120 


■ 


21780 


147 


1 


43560 


208 


2 


87120 


295i 



CUBIC OB GAFACITT MEASUBE 

Capacity Measure. — Measures of 
capacity are principally of three sorts: 
solid, liquid, and dry measure. In 
practical application of capacity 
measure, however, a number of differ- 
ent units are employed for different 
purposes. Among these is cubic 
measure used by scientists and also 
in the building trades for the meas- 




" The UUiTnate Measure is the Yard.*' 

urement of stone, lumber, and for 
many other pui-poses. The ultimate 
unit is the cube of the standard yard 
with the cubes of its subdivisions into 
feet and inches. Other common units 
are the cord E|.nd the cord foot used 
in the measurement of wood for fuel, 
and the perch used in the measure- 
ment of stone for masonry. The bushel 
with its subdivisipns is the unit of dry 
measure and is used for grain, vege- 
tables, and the like; but there is an 



618 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



increasing tendency to determine the 
measurement of these articles by 
weight. The gallon is the unit of 
measurement for liquids, with the ex- 
ception of medicine, for which a spe- 
cial unit is provided. The following 
is a table of solid or cubic measure: 

1728 cu. inches 1 cu. foot. 

27 cu. feet 1 cu. yard. 

40 cu. feet of round timber or 
50 cu. feet of hewn tim- 
ber 1 ton or load. 

42 cu. feet 1 ton shipping, 

16 cu. feet 1 cord-foot of 

wood. 

8 cord feet 1 cord of wood. 

128 cu. feet 1 cord of wood. 

24i cu. feet 1 perch of stone or 

masonry. 

2150.42 cu. inches 1 standard bushel. 

268.8 cu. inches 1 standard gallon. 

1 cu. foot } bushel. 

A perch of stone or masonry is 16J 
feet long, IJ feet thick, and 1 foot 
high, and contains 24| cubic feet. 

A cubic yard of earth is considered 
a load. 



WOOD, LUUBEB ASO BOASD 
MEASUKE 

Measurement of Wood and lum- 
ber. — Among the most frequent ap- 
plications of cubic or capacity meas- 




"A Cord-Foot is One-aght of this Pile." 



ure is the measurement of cord wood 
for fuel and of round timber or sawed 
lumber for building and other "pur- 
poses. 

Wood is usually cut for fuel into 4 
feet sticks. A cord of wood is a pile 
8 feet long, 4 feet wide, and 4 feet 
high. It contains 138 cubic feet. A 
cord-foot is J of this pile or a pile of 
wood 4 feet long, 4 feet high, and 1 
foot wide. 

To obtain the number of cords in a 
pile of wood, multiply the length of 



the wood by the height of the pile ex- 
pressed in feet and that result by the 
length of the pile in feet. Divide the 
product by 128 and the quotient will 
be the number of cords. 

Board Measure. — Lumber is sold at 
so much " per M," meaning per thou- 
sand feet B. M. or board measure. 
Board measure is used in measuring 
lumber sawed into boards, planks, 
joists, scantling, etc. The unit of 
board measure is the board foot, 
which is 1 foot long, 1 foot wide, and 
'1 inch thick, and hence is equal to^^ 
of a cubic foot. Hence to find the 
number of board feet in a board or 
other piece of lumber having square 
edges and parallel sides, first find the 
surface of the board in square feet 
and multiply the product by the 
thickness in inches. Boards 1 inch 
in thickness or less are sold by the 
square foot, surface measure. 

Thus a board 1 foot wide and 16 
feet long, if 1 inch or less in thick- 
ness, would contain 16 square feet or 
16 feet board measure. A board 18 
feet long, 6 inches wide, and 1 inch or 
less thick would contain 18 X i foot 
B. M. or 9 feet B. M. A joist 12 feet 
X 6 inches X 3 inches contains 13 X 3 
X i feet B. M. or 13 feet B. M. 

The width of a board that tapers 
uniformly is averaged by taking one 
half the sum of the two ends, or, in 
practice, by measuring across the 
middle. In practice the width of a 
board is reckoned to the next smaller 
half inch. Thus, a width of 6| inches 
is taken as 6 inches, and the width of 
6i inches is taken as 64 inches. 

To Measure Inch Boards. — Multi- 
ply the length in feet by the width 
in inches, and divide the product by 
13. The quotient will be the contents 
in feet. For lumber IJ inches thick, 
add J to the quotient. If IJ inches 
thick, add i. If 1| inches thick, add 
f. If 3 inches thick, divide by 6 in- 
stead of by 13. If 3J inches thick, 
add i to the quotient and so on. If 
3 inches thick, divide by 4. If 4 
inches thick, divide by 3. Or to as- 
certain the contents (board measure) 
of timber, including scantling, joist, 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



619 



planks, sills, rafters, etc., multiply 
the width in inches by the thickness in 
Inches, and that by the length in feet 
and divide the product by 12. The 
result will be the number of feet. 

The measurement of round logs is 
intended to give the amount of lum- 
ber in board measure that can be 
sawed from them. Logs not over 15 
feet in length are measured by means 
of a table stamped on calipers, the 
length and diameter of the small end 
being given. In the case of logs 
over 16 feet in length, the average di- 
ameter is taken. 

Or to measure round timber take 
the girth in inches at both the large 
and the small ends, add them, and di- 
vide by 3, which gives the mean girth. 
The square of J of the mean girth 
multiplied by the length of the tim- 
ber in feet will give the contents in 
cubic feet. This is the common prac- 
tice based on the estimate that round 
timber when squared loses i. The 
result gives t of the actual contents, 
the remaining J being allowed for 
waste in sawing. 

Or, by another rule, subtract 4 
from the diameter of the log in inches, 
multiply the square of J the remain- 
der by the length of the log in feet. 
These two rules should give approxi- 
mately the same result. 

Or to find how many solid feet a 
round stick of timber, if of the same 
thickness throughout, will contain 
when squared, square half the diame- 
ter in inches, multiply by 2 and mul- 
tiply this product by the length in 
feet. Finally, divide by 144; the re- 
sult will be the contents of the 
squared timber in solid feet. 

Or to find the number of feet in 
timber having the bark on, square J 
of the circumference in inches and 
multiply the product by twice the 
length in feet. Then divide by 144. 
Subtract -^ to ^f of the total, accord- 
ing to the thickness of the bark. As 
a general rule, to find the solid con- 
tents of sawn lumber multiply the 
depth in inches by the breadth in 
inches and multiply the product by 
the length in feet and divide by 144. 



To determine how large a tree must 
be cut to get out a, stick of timber a 
given number of inches square, divide 
the side of the required square by 
.225. The quotient will be the circum- 
ference of the timber required. 

UEAStrBEUENT OF STONE AND BBICK 

Cost of Brick and Stone Work. — 
A common application of capacity 
measure is in preparing estimates for 
brick and stone work. Masons com- 
monly measure stone work by the 
perch, 16 J feet long, IJ feet wide, and 
1 foot thick, or 34| cubic feet. Brick 
work is commonly estimated by the 
thousand bricks. It is, however, cus- 
tomary in many localities to reckon 
stone work by the cubic foot instead 
of by the perch. Usually a deduction 
is made by bricklayers, masons, and 
joiners, for one half of all openings. 
But this should be clearly established 
in each case in the contract. 

In computing the capacity of walls 
of cellars and buildings, masons and 
bricklayers multiply the. entire dis- 
tance around the outside of the wall 
(the girth) by the height and thick- 
ness. Thus the corners are measured 
twice. But this measurement applies 
only to the labor and not to the quan- 
tity of material to be paid for. 

Keasurement of Stone and Brick 
Walls. — A perch of stone is 24.75 cu- 
bic feet. When built in the wall, 2i 
cubic feet are allowed for the mortar 
and filling; hence 22 cubic feet of 
stone makes one perch of wall. 

Masons estimate 3 pecks of lime 
and 4 bushels of sand to a perch of 
wall. 

To find the number of perches of 
stone in n wall, multiply together the 
length, height, and thickness in feet 
and divide by 22. ' 

Measurement of Brick Work. — The 
size of bricks varies, and rules for es- 
timating the number of bricks re- 
quired must be modified accordingly. 
Bricks are now usually made 8 inches 
long, 4 inches wide, and 2 inches thick. 
Hence 37 bricks are required to make 
a cubic foot without mortar. But 



620 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



it is assumed that mortar fills J of 
the space. The first step is to find 
the number of cubic feet in the wall 
by multiplying the length, height, and 
thickness together in feet, and if the 
bricks are of this size multiply the 
number of cubic feet by 22J. 

Formerly, however, and to some ex- 
tent at the present time, bricks were 
made of two sorts and sizes — common 
brick, 7i inches to 8 inches long by 
41 inches wide and 2J inches thick, 
and front brick, J inch longer and 
wider. Of conmion brick 20 are re- 
quired to lay one cubic foot or IS 
common brick will lay one square 
foot of wall 8 inches thick. Hence to es- 
timate the number of bricks required 
for a wall 12 inches or more in thick- 
ness, multiply together the length, 
height, and thickness in feet, and that 
product by 20; or for an 8-inch wall 
multiply the length by the height and 
that by 15. An allowance of one half 
should be made for doors, windows, 
and other openings. Multiply their 
length by their width and that by the 
thickness of the wall in feet. Deduct 
one half the result from the cubic 
contents of the wall before multiply- 
ing by 20 or by IS, as above. 



DBT AND LIQTTID MEASVBE 

Dry Ueasnre. — The standard miit 
of dry measure is the English or 
Winchester bushel, containing 2150.43 
cubic inches or 77.637 pounds avoir- 
dupois of distilled water at its great- 
est density. The standard measure is 
circular in form, its diameter inside 
being 18J inches, and its depth 8 
inches. Dry measure is used in meas- 
uring grain, coal, fruit, vegetables, 
etc. The following is a table of dry 
measure commonly used in the United 
States: 

4 gUls 1 pt. = 34S cu. in. nearly. 

2 pints 1 qt. = 69i cu. in. 

4 quarts 1 gal. = 277i cu. in. 

5 quarts 1 pk, 

2 gallons 1 pk. = 554i cu. in. 

4 pks. or 8 gal 1 bu. — 2150i ou. in. 

8 bushels 1 qr. ■= 10} cu. f t. nearly. 

36 bushels 1 chaldron. 

When articles usually measured by 
the above table are sold by weight. 



the bushel is taken as the unit. The 
number of avoirdupois pounds in a 
bushel varies in different States and 
with different articles. 

In measuring grain, seeds, or small 
fruit, the measure must be even 
or " stricken." In measuring large 
fruits or coarse vegetables, corn in 
the ear, etc., and also meal and bran, 
the measure should be heaped at least 
6 inches. 

Five stricken bushels are considered 
equal to 4 heaped bushels. The strick- 
en bushel is now little used, except to 
ascertain capacities. 

All the denominations are used in 
trade, the peck being the least in use. 



Liquid Meas. 
Dry Measure 



Cu. in. 

in 
one gal. 



231 
2681 



Cu. in. 

in 
one qt. 



57f 
67i 



Cu. in. 

in 
one pt. 



28* 
331 



Cu. in. 



If 



English Dry Measure. — In addition 
to the above the following terms for 
units of dry measure are still cus- 
tomary to some extent in the British 
Empire: 

2 quarts 1 pottle. 

2 bushels 1 strike. 

2 strikes 1 coomb. 

2 coombs 1 quarter. 

5 quarters 1 load. 

3 bushels 1 sack. 

36 bushels 1 chaldron. 

Thirty - two British or Imperial 
bushels are equal to 38 of our bushels. 

Capacity of Boxes, Cribs, Wagon 
Bodies, etc. — The most convenient 
mode of ascertaining the capacity of 
boxes, bins, cribs, and the like, and 
also of measuring their contents, is by 
ascertaining the number of cubic feet 
which they contain; | of this amount 
will be the number of bushels, 1 cu- 
bic foot being f of a bushel nearly. 
Hence, to find the number of bushels 
in any receptacle which has parallel 
sides and square corners, first find 
the number of cubic feet by multiply- 
ing the height, length, and width in 
feet and deduct J; tlie result will be 
the contents in bushels. Or for an 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



621 



approximate answer multiply the num- 
ber of cubic feet by 8 and point off 
one decimal place. 

These rules will give the number of 
bushels of apples, potatoes, and other 
vegetables or the capacity of any size 
bin or crib or wagon body. 

In estimating corn on the cob, its 
quality and condition must be taken 
into account. Corn shrinks consider- 
ably during the winter and spring 
months. But, as a general rule, 2 
heaping bushels of corn on the cob at 
the time it is put into the crib wiU 
make from 1 to IJ struck bushels of 
shelled corn. In buying or selling it 
is advisable to make a test from a fair 
sample taken from the crib at the 
time of sale. To measure corn in the 
crib, multiply together the length, 
width, and height of the crib in inches, 
divide by 2,748, and the result will be 
the number of heaped bushels of ears. 
Or divide by 3,150 for the number of 
struck bushels. The quotient in each 
case will be the corresponding num- 
ber of bushels contained in the bin. 

If the sides of the crib flare, ascer- 
tain the mean width by measuring the 
width at both top and bottom, add 
the two amounts and divide by 2. 

Or, it is estimated that 2 cubic feet 
of sound dry corn on the ear will 
make 1 bushel shelled. Hence mul- 
tiply together the length, breadth, and 
height of the crib in feet and divide 
by 2. This should give the number 
of bushels of shelled corn in the crib. 
The corn should, of course, be uni- 
formly level so as to be of equal 
depth throughout. 

Capacity of Boxes. — The following 
is a table showing the principal units 
of dry measurement with the inside 
dimensions of boxes or bins having 
square corners and parallel sides that 
will contain the quantities stated. 

One convenient form of making 
boxes in small sizes for the storage of 
vegetables and numerous other pur- 
poses about the household, farm, and 
garden, is to cut the two ends of inch 
pine stuff to the proper size and form 
the bottom and two sides of laths. 
Saw these to the right length and 



tack them to the ends, with the thick- 
ness of a lath between each two. Such 
boxes are light, strong, and service- 
able. Larger bins or crates of heavier 
materials can be prepared on the 
same principle. 



Capacity. 


Length. 


Breadth. 


Depth. 


Ipint 


3 in. 


3 in. 


3#in. 
4iin. 


1 quart. . . 


4 in. 


4 in. 


+ gallon.. . 


7 in. 


7 in. 


2fin. 
4} in. 


Gallon.... 


8 in. 


Sin. 


1 peck. . . . 
i bushel... 


S|in. 


Sin. 


Sin. 


12 in. 


Hi in. 


9 in. 


1 bushel... 


26 in. 


15} in. 


Sin. 


1 barrel... 


24 in. 


164 in. 


28 in. 


20 bushels.. 


4ft. Sin. 


2 ft. 4 in. 


2 ft. 4 in. 


24 bushels.. 


5 ft. 


3 ft. 


2 ft. 


36 bushels.. 


5 ft. 


3 ft. 


3 ft. 


48b'UsheIs.. 


5 ft. ' 


3 ft. 


4 ft. 


100 bushels.. 


7 ft. 


5 ft. 


3 ft. 9 in. 


216 bushels.. 


9 ft. 


6 ft. 


5 ft. 


600 bushels.. 


13 ft. 


8 ft. 


6 ft. 



Liquid Measure. — The measurement 
of wine and other liquors, molasses, 
vinegar, and the like, has been the oc- 
casion of great confusion due to vari- 




" Liquid Measured' 

ations of the standard unit of liquid 
capacity, the gallon. The gallon was 
originally a standard unit of weight. 
But as an equal bulk of various sub- 
stances differs in weight, early usage 
led to the adoption of two different 
gallons, wet and dry, and the gallon 
is still used as a unit of both wet and 
dry measure in Great Britain. The 
gallon at present the standard in the 
United States had its origin in an 
English statute passed shortly after 
the discovery of America by Colum- 
bus. A new standard gallon measure 
was constructed capable of holding 8 
pounds of wheat of 12 ounces troy 
each. This was afterwards deter- 



622 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



mined by statute to contain 268.8 cubic 
inches of water at a temperature of 
63° F. The Winchester gallon, as this 
standard was called, having been gen- 
erally adopted in the United States, 
it became ultimately necessary to es- 
tablish a national standard for cus- 
tomhouse purposes. Accordingly, by 
resolution of the United States Sen- 
ate, on May 1, 1830, the Secretary of 
the Treasury procured the construc- 
tion of a set of uniform standard 
weights and measures to be supplied 
to all the customhouses. For this 
purpose a Winchester gallon of water, 
at a temperature of 39.83° F., was 
taken as the standard, and this was 
afterwards legalized by Congress. 
Hence the legal capacity of the gal- 
lon, the present United States stand- 
ard, was fixed at 231 cubic inches of 
water. As a result there is a consid- 
erable discrepancy between the Brit- 
ish Winchester and the so-called 
American Winchester gallon, the pres- 
ent United States standard. 

In the meantime, by an act of 
English Parliament, which went into 
eifect January 1, 1836, the capacity of 
the British gallon was made such as 
to contain 10 pounds avoirdupois of 
distilled water at the temperature of 
.62° F. or 277J cubic inches nearly. 
This is the so-called Imperial gallon, 
and since its introduction has been 
the only legal gallon in Great Britain 
for either wet or dry measure. 

The reason that it is necessary to 
state these facts in detail is that 
works of reference in the English 
. language circulate quite generally 
through all English speaking coun- 
tries, and it is quite customary to 
copy reference tables from one to an- 
other on the assumption that stand- 
ard units of weights and measures are 
invariable. This, however, as has been 
seen, is not the case. Hence it is nec- 
essary in making use of any published 
recipes or similar information where 
great accuracy is required, to ascer- 
tain whether the British Winchester, 
the American Winchester, or the 
British Imperial gallon is referred 
to. The only standards that are of 



■universal application throughout the 
civilized world are those of the metric 
system. 

Tables of liqiiid Measure. — ^The 
following is the United States stand- 
ard of liquid or wine measure: 

4 gills 1 pint (pt.) 28} cu. in. 

2 pints 1 quart (qt.) 57J cu. in. 

4 quarts 1 gallon Cgal.^ 231 cu. in. 

31i gallons 1 barrel (bbl.) 

2 barrels 1 hogshead (hhd.) 

63 gallons 1 hogshead (hhd.) 

2 hogsheads 1 pipe or butt (pi.) 

2 pipes 1 tun. 

282 cu. m 1 beer gallon. 

36 beer gallons 1 barrel. ' 

The following is a table of the 
measure of capacity based upon the 
British Imperial gallon, which is in 
general use throughout the British 
Empire : 

Measure of Capacity for AU Lnquids. 

5 ounces avoirdupois of water make 1 gill. 

4 gills 1 pint = 34 J cu. in. nearly. 

2 pints 1 quart = 69^ cu. in. nearly. 

4 quarts 1 gallon = 277i cu. in. nearly. 

31i gallons 1 barrd. 

42 gallons 1 tierce. 

63 gallons or 2 bbls 1 hogshead. 

2 hogsheads 1 pipe or butt. 

2 pipes 1 tun. 

The British Imperial gallon must 
contain exactly 10 pounds avoirdupois 
of pure water at a temperature of 62° 
F., the barometer being at 30 inches. 
It is the standard unit of measure of 
capacity for liquids and dry goods of 
every description, and is J larger than 
the old wine measure, ^^ larger than 
the old dry measure, and ^ less than 
the old ale measure. 

The following are terms in wine 
measure — more frequently used in 
England than in this country — with 
comparative capacity in British and 
American gallons: 

18 U. S. gallons 1 rundlet. 

25 Eng. gallons or 42 U. S. 

gallons 1 tierce. 

„?, tierces. . 1 puncheon. 

62i Eng. goUons or 63 U. S. 

gallons Ihogahead. 

2 hogsheads Ipipe 

7i En§. gallons 1 firkin of beer. 

4 firkms 1 barrel of beer. 

Comparison of liquid and Dry 
Measure.— The capacity of bins for 
grain is usuaUy measured in bushels, 
and the capacity of casks, cisterns, 



WEIGHTS AND. MEASURES 



623 



and the like, in gallons or barrels. In 
determining the capacity of cisterns 
and reservoirs, SIJ gallons are consid- 
ered a barrel, and 2 barrels or 63 gal- 
lons a hogshead. 

In commerce the size of casks for 
liquids is variable, barrels being made 
to contain from 30 to 40 gallons or 
more. Casks of large size called 
tierces, pipes, butts, tuns, etc., do not 
now hold any fixed quantity. Their 
capacity is usually marked upon them. 
While the standard liquid gallon con- 
tains 331 cubic inches in approximate 
measurements, 7J gallons are allowed 
to the cubic foot. As compared with 
the weight of water, a gallon will hold 
a little over 8J poimds, which is near 
enough for practical purposes. 

In comparison with dry measure, 
the United States standard bushel 
contains 21S0.4 cubic inches, the liq- 
uid gallon 231 cubic inches, and the 
dry gallon (the former British Win- 
chester standard — J bushel) 263.8 cu- 
bic inches. Hence 6 dry gallons equal 
nearly 7 liquid gallons. The British 
Imperial gallon contains 277.274 cu- 
bic inches or 10 pounds of distilled 
water, temperature 62° F., barometer 
30 inches. The beer gallon contains 
282 cubic inches, but it is not now in 
use. Hence the following rules to 
find the capacity of bins, cisterns, etc. 

To find the number of bushels, di- 
vide the volume in cubic inches by 
2150.4. To find the number of gallons, 
divide the volume in cubic inches by 
231. 

Apothecaries' Pluid Measure. — In 
addition to the above is the apotheca- 
ries' fluid measure, used in compound- 
ing medicines which are in fluid form 
as follows: 

60 drops (gtt.) or minims (m) — 1 fluid dram <!Z) 
8 fluid drams = 1 fluid ounoeCf 5 ) 

lefluidoimces =lpint (fO) 

8 pints =1 gallon... .Cong. 

Cong. I = 08=f5128 = f3 1024 = ia61440. 

Scale: 8, 16, 8, 60. 

(1) Cong., from the Latin congius, 
means gallon. 

(2) O, from the Latin octarins, 
means \. 

(3) The minim is about equal to a 
drop of water,' 



Comparison of the Measures of 
Capacity. — The following is a com- 
parison of measures of capacity: 

1 gal. or 4 qt. wine measure contains 231 cu. 
in. 
ipk. or4 qt. dry measure contains 268Jou.in. 
1 gal. or 4 qt. beer measure con tains 282 cu.in. 

The gallon containing 231 cubic 
inches is the standard unit of wine 
measure. The British gallon called 
the Imperial gallon contains 277,274 
cubic inches. 

Measurement of Tanks, Casks, and 
Cisterns. — To find the capacity of 
cylindrical tanks of any size in United 
States gallons, multiply the square of 
the diameter in inches by the length 
in inches and that product by ,0034; 
the result wiU be the contents or ca- 
pacity in wine gallons and decimals 
of a gallon. For beer gallons, multi- 
ply by .0028 instead of .0034. To as- 
certain the diameter, measure at the 
bung and also at the head; add to- 
gether and divide the same by 2 for 
the mean diameter. To ascertain the 
actual contents if the cask is only 
partially filled, multiply the height of 
the liquid in inches instead of the 
height of the cask. 

To ascertain the contents of a.square 
cistern or watering trough, multiply 
together the length, width, and depth 
in inches and divide by 231, the nimi- 
ber of cubic inches in a gallon. This 
will give the contents in gallons. 

To ascertain the contents of a cir- 
cular cistern, multiply the square of 
the diameter in feet by the depth in 
feet, and that product by 5|. The re- 
sult will be the contents in gallons. 

MHASITBES OF WEIGHT 

Origin of Standards. — The use of 
weights depends upon the principle 
of balance. Hence they were proba- 
bly not introduced until some time 
after measures of length, surface, and 
capacity. The first English statute 
on the subject founded measures of 
weight upon a given quantity of 
wheat corns. The language of the 
ancient statute is interesting and sug- 
gestive. 



624 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



" An English penny, called a ster- 
ling, round and without any clipping, 
shall weigh 33 wheat corns in the 
midst of the ear, and 20 pence do 
make an ounce, and 13 ounces 1 
pound, and 8 pounds do make a gal- 
Ion of wine, and 8 gallons of wine do 
make a London bushel, which is the 
eighth part of a quarter." 

The pound weight provided by this 
statute known as the tower pound, or 
the easterling or sterling poimd 
(whence our word sterling as applied 
to silverware and otherwise), con- 
tinued in use until about the time of 
Columbus, when the pound troy was 
substituted in its place. By a later 
statute a brass 1-pound weight was 
established as the imperial standard 
troy pound. It was declared to con- 
tain 12 ounces of 20 pennyweights, 
each pennyweight containing 21 
grains, so that 5,760 such grains shall 
be a troy pound, and 7,000 such grains 
a pound avoirdupois. It was further 
provided that 1 cubic inch of water 
weighed by brass weights in air, at a 
temperature of 63° F., and 30 inches 
bai;ometic pressure, is the equivalent 
of 252.458 grains. This standard be- 
came quite generally adopted in the 
United States, and in 1836 the Secre- 
tary of the Treasury caused a uni- 
form set of weights to be delivered to 
the governor of each State for local 
use. Thus a pound is practically the 
same in all parts of the English- 
speaking world. There is still, how- 
ever, great confusion in comparisons 
between weight and capacity meas- 
ures, and the legislation of different 
States and countries in defining the 
number of pounds in a bushel of va- 
rious grains, fruits, and vegetables, 
differs widely. 

Systems of Weight. — There are 
three principal systems of weights in 
general use: avoirdupois weight, the 
universal standard, except as to the 
weight of the precious metals, jewels, 
and drugs; troy weight used in coin- 
age and by jewelers (who also make 
use of a standard unit in weighing 
jewels called the carat); and apothe- 
caries' weight, used by druggists and 



physicians. Avoirdupois weight, so 
called from the Norman Avon du 
poids, " goods of weight," is derived 
from the imperial standard pound 
above mentioned, equal to 700 troy 
grains. The grain is the same in both 
avoirdupois and troy weight. For- 
merly the ton consisted of 2,240 
pounds, and the hundredweight of 
113 pounds, divided into four quar- 
ters of 38 pounds each. And this 
practice continues in Great Britain 
and in the United States custom- 
house. In the ordinary commerce of 
the United States, however, it has 
become customary, as a matter of 
convenience, to reckon 100 pounds to 
the hundredweight, and 3,000 pounds 
to the ton; and this practice has 
been legalized in. some of the States. 
By act of Congress, however, when 
not specified to the contrary, the ton 
is to be construed as meaning 2,340 



/6^J?AAfS.= ./ @ 
OOCXDtSOOO , 

lOO ^-^ 
20 ^ —ITofi^ 





"American Avoirdupois Weight.' 



pounds. This is commonly called the 
long ton; that of 2,000 poimds the 
short ton. The long ton is most often 
used for weighing coal and iron at 
the mines, and for plaster, and in 
some other wholesale transactions in 
mining products. The shipping ton 
is 40 cubic feet, known as actual ton- 
nage. The registered shipping ton is 
100 cubic feet. The word ton is sup- 
posed to have been derived from the 
tun, an old British liquid measure tor 
ale or beer. A tun of water weighs a 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



625 



little over 3,200 pounds. Hence the 
ton weight seems to have been taken 
from the tun measure, of which it is a 
roiigh equivalent. 

Avoirdupois Weight. — The follow- 
ing are English and American avoir- 
dupois tables: 

American 

16 drama 1 ounce (oz.). 

16 ounces 1 pound (lb.). 

25 pounds 1 quarter (qr.). 

4 quarters 1 hundred (owt.). 

20 hundred 1 ton (T.). 

English 

27Ji grains 1 dram (dr.). 

16 drams 1 ounce (oz.). 

16 oimces 1 pound (lb.). 

28 pounds 1 quarter (qr.). 

4 quarters 1 hundred (cwt.). 

20 hundred 1 ton (T.). 

The weight of 22.79+ cubic inches 
of distilled water at its greatest den- 
sity, with the barometer at 30 inches, 
is equal nearly to 1 pound troy. This 
is taken as a standard by which to 
fiind any number of greater or less 
units of weight. 

English Old Heasures of Weight. 
— The following are English units of 
weights not commonly employed in 
the United States: 

3 potmds 1 stone, butchers' meat. 

7 pounds 1 clove. 

2 cloves 1 stone common articles. 

2 stone 1 tod of wool. 

6i tods ■ 1 weyof wool. 

2 weys Isackofwool. 

12 sacks llastofwool. 

240 pounds 1 pack of wool. 

Troy Weight. — By this scale sil- 
ver, platinum, and precious stones 
(excepting diamonds) are weighed. 
The name is derived from Troyes, a 
town in France, where this weight was 
first used in Europe. It was intro- 
duced from Cairo, Egypt, during 
the crusades of the twelfth century. 
The term grain originated in the use 
of grains of wheat to determine the 
pennyweight or weight of the old sil- 
ver penny of England. At first 32, 
and afterwards 24, grains of wheat 
were called a pennyweight. The sym- 
bol oz. is from the Spanish word 
onza meaning ounce; lb. is from the 
Latin libra meaning pound. 

As a unit of measure the troy 
pound of 5,760 grains is equal to 



32.794422 cubic inches of distilled 
water at the temperature of 39.8, 30" 
barometic pressure. The following is 
the table of troy weight: 

20 mites 1 gram. 

24 grains (gr.)... . 1 pennyweight (pwt. , dwt.). 

20 dwt 1 ounce (oz.). 

12 oz.. 1 pound (lb.). 

3s grains 1 carat (diamond wt.) (k.). 

The avoirdupois pound contains 
7,000 grains, the troy pound 5,760 
grains. Therefore 1 pound of iron is 
heavier than 1 pound of gold. The 
troy pound is accordingly less than 
the avoirdupois pound in the propor- 
tion of 14 to 17 nearly. The troy 
ounce is greater than the avoirdupois 
ounce in the proportion of 79 to 72 
nearly. 

Carat Weight. — The term carat is 
used in two ways: as a unit of 
weight used by jewelers in weighing 
diamonds, the carat in the United 
States is 3J grains troy nearly, a 
carat grain being i of this. In assay- 
ing gold the term is equivalent to^^ 
part. Its use is to designate the pro- 
portion of pure gold in an alloy. 
Pure gold is said to be 24 carats fine ; 
18 carats gold contains 18 parts of 
pure gold and six parts of alloy, and 
so on. 

Apothecaries' Weight. — The units 
of weight in use by physicians in pre- 
scribing, and by druggists in mixing 
and compounding medicines, are the 
same as the troy weight as to the 
pound, ounce, and grain. The ounce, 
however, is differently divided. They 
are shown by the following table: 

20 grains (gr. xx). ... 1 scruple (sc.) 3 . 

3 scruples (sc.iij)...l dram (dr.) 3 . 

8 drams ( 3 viij) .... 1 ounce troy (oz.) 5 • 
12 ounces ( 5 xij) . . . . 1 pound troy (lb.) ft). 

1 lb. avoirdupois 7,000 gr. 

1 oz. avoirdupois 437^ gr. 

1 lb. troy and apothecaries' 5,760 gr. 

1 oz. troy and apothecaries' 480 gr. 

Physicians in writing prescriptions 
use Roman numerals (the small let- 
ters only) instead of figures. They 
write j for i when it terminates a 
number. They also employ the sym- 
bols above indicated writing the sym- 
bol first, thus jvij, meaning 7 ounces. 
This practice is a survival of the me- 
dieval custom of surrounding all 



620 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVEEIES 



knowledge of drugs and medicines 
with an air of mystery. Hence the 
names of medicines written in Latin 
and arbitrary symbols employed to 
express quantity. These symbols have 
been thought by some to be modifica- 
tions of the figure 3 (derived from 
the fact that there are three scruples 
in the dram), but it is more probable 
that they are inherited from ancient 
Egypt. There is an increasing ten- 
dency among physicians to do away 
with this air of mystery, and it is not 
improbable that prescriptions in time 
to come may be written in English 
and quantities expressed in ordinary 
fashion. 

Medicines are bought and sold 
by avoirdupois weight, apothecaries' 
weight being used only in mixing and 
compounding them. 

Druggists' Abbreviations. — The 
following are abbreviations frequently 
used by druggists and physicians, and 
freely made use of in this volume, es- 
pecially in the department of toilet 
recipes : 



S is an 


abbreviation for recipe, or take. 


P 




" particular or little 
part. 


Q.S. " 


•• 


" quantity sufficient. 


P. SB. " 


** 


*' equal parts. 


Q.p. " 




" as much as you 
please. 


Gr. " 


** 


" grain. 


Ss. 


** 


" semi. 


Gt. " 


,j 


" equal quantities. 
" 2. 
" drop. 


" 


Cong. " 




** congiita, the Latin 
for gallon. 


O 




" pint from octarius^ 
Latin for i. 


■ni, minim, equal to a drop of water. 



Comparison of Measures. — The fol- 
lowing table of comparative weights 
will be found convenient for refer- 
ence: 



1 U.S. lb. troy 5, 

1 Eng. lb. troy 5, 

1 lb. apoth 5, 

lU. S. lb. av 7, 

lEng.lb. av 7, 

144 lb. av 

1 French gram 

1 U. S. yard 

1 Eng. yard 

1 French meter 

1 U.S. bushel 2, 

1 Eng. bushel 2, 

1 U. 8. gallon 

1 Eng. gallon 

1 French liter 

1 French are 



760 
760 
760 
,000 
,000 
175 



grs. troy, 
grs. troy, 
grs. troy, 
grs. troy, 
grs. troy, 
lb. troy. 
15.433 grs. troy. 
36 inches. 
36 inches. 
39.368+ inches. 
,150.42 + cu. in. 
,218.19 + cu.in. 
231 cu. in. 

277.26 + cu.in. 
91.533+ cu.in. 
119.664 sq. yds, 



Weight of Cattle. — To estimate the 
weight of live cattle or carcasses un- 
dressed, first measure in inches the 
girth beiiind the shoulders, next the 
length from the forepart or point of 
the shoulder blade along the back to 
the bone at the tail in a vertical line 
with the buttocks. Multiply the girth 
in inches by the length in inches, and 
divide the product by 144. This will 
give the number of superficial feet. 
If the girth of the animal is from 3 
to 5 feet, multiply the number of 
superficial feet by 16; the result will 
be the animal's weight. Or if the girth 
is from S to 7 feet, multiply by 23. 
If from 7 to 9 feet, multiply by 31. 
If less than 3 feet, as in the case of 
small calves, hogs, sheep, etc., multi- 
ply by H. Of course, individual ani- 
mals will vary. But these rules will 
give approximate results. 

Or multiply the square of the girth 
in feet by S times the length in feet. 
For average stock divide the product 
by 1.5; for fat cattle by 1.425; for 
lean by 1.575. The quotient will be 
the dressed weight of the quarters, or 
net weight of the steer after dressing. 

Or for a short method, multiply the 
square of the animal's girth by 17.5, 
which wiU give the weight of the ani- 
mal nearly. 

In estimating the weight and price 
of hogs, it is usually considered that 
about J is lost in dressing the animal. 
Hence the gross weight diminished 
by i, or by 20 per cent, gives the net 
weight. Or the net weight increased 
by J, or 25 per cent of itself, gives the 
gross weight. 

Measurement of Hay. — Hay is or- 
dinarily and properly sold by weight, 
and this is the only exact mode of 
measurement. But experience has 
shown the following rules to be suffi- 
ciently correct for ordinary practical 
purposes. If the hay is loosely packed, 
as in windrows, multiply the length, 
breadth, and height in yards, and di- 
vide the product by 25. The quotient 
will be the number of tons in the 
windrow. If the hay has been re- 
cently placed in the mow, or if the 
mow is shallow, multiply together the 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



length, height, and width in yards, 
and divide by 18. Or if the hay is 
well packed, divide by IS or divide by 
any number between 15 and 18, ac- 
cording to the way in which the hay 
is packed or settled in the mow. 

Or if the hay is in square or long 
stacks with flat tops, well settled, 
multiply the length of the base in 
yards by the width in yards, and that 
product by J the height in yards, and 
divide by IS. 

Or if the hay is in a load, multiply 
the length, width, and height in yards, 
and divide the product by 20. 

Or, by another method, it is esti- 
mated that old hay well packed in a 
mow vidll run about S20 cubic feet to 
the ton, clover 720 cubic feet, timothy 
and clover mixed 600 cubic feet. 
Hence ascertain the number of cubic 
feet in the mow and divide by one of 
these figures, according to the quality 
of the hay. 

Or to ascertain the number of cu- 
bic feet in a round pointed stack, 
multiply the area of the base in 
square feet by J of the height in feet. 
This will give the number of cubic 
feet in a stack, or if the stack is built 
up square with pointed eaves, like a 
house, first measure the height from 
the ground to the eaves and to this 
add J of the height from the eaves 
to the top. Take this figure as the 
mean height, and multiply together 
the mean height, length, and breadth 
in feet, and divide the result by S20, 
600, or 720, according to the quality 
of the hay. 

To ascertain the value of a given 
amount of hay, straw, or other com- 
modity sold by the ton, when the 
price per ton is given, multiply the 
number of pounds by 4 the price per 
ton and point off three figures from 
the right. The result wiU be the price 
of the article. 

Weights of Trade Packages. — The 
following is a table showing the style 
of package in use in ordinary com- 
mercial practice in the sale of various 
kinds of commodities, and the cor- 
responding weight as ordinarily rec- 
ognized in the trade: 



Akticlb. 



Beef 

Butter 

Corn 

Corn 

Cotton 

Cotton, Sea Island. 

Feathers 

Fish, dry 

Fish in brine 

Flour 

Flour 

Grain 

Hay 

Hay 

Hay 

Hay 

Honey 

Iron. . . .■ 

Lead 

Meat 

Molasses 

Nails 

Pork 

Powder 

Raisins 

Raisins 

Rice 



Salt. 



Package. 



Soap 

Soap 

Straw 

Sugar.. . , 

Tea 

Tobacco. 

Wood 

Wool 

Wool 

Wool.... 



Barrel, 

Firkin, 

Barrel,' 

Barrel,^ 

Bale,» 

Sack, 

Bale, 

Quintal, 

Barrel, 

Barrel, 

Cental, 

Cental, 

Bale, 

Load, 

Truss, 

Truss, 

Gallon, 

Stone, 

Stone, 

Stone, 

Hogshead, 

Keg, 

Barrel, 

Barrel, 

Barrel, 

Cask, 

Barrel 



Barrel, 

Box, 

Truss, 

Barrel, 

Chest, 

Hogshead, 

Tod, 

Pack, 

Sack, 

Pack load 

for ahorse, 



Weight. 



200 lbs. 
eOorlOOlba. 



400 lbs. 
300 lbs. 
100 lbs. 
100 lbs. 
200 lbs. 
196 lbs, 
100 lbs. 
100 lbs. 
.300 lbs. 

36 trusses. 

60 lbs., new. 

50 lbs., old. 

12 lbs. 

14 lbs. 

14 lbs. 

80 lbs. 

130 to 150 gal. 
100 lbs. 
200 lbs. 

25 lbs. 
112 lbs. 
100 lbs. 
600 lbs. 

280 lbs. 

256 lbs. 

56 lbs. 

40 lbs. 
200 to 250 lbs. 

60 to S4 lbs. 
168 lbs. 

28 lbs. 

17 stone. 

22 stone. 

1240 lbs. 



1 As bought and sold at New Orleans, a 
flour barrel full of ears. 

2 As bought and sold in Kentucky and 
Tennessee, 5 bu. of shelled corn. 

3 Varies in different States from 280 to 
720 lbs. 

Comparative Table of Weight of 
Commodities per Bushel. — While the 
standard units of weight and of ca- 
pacity are now practically uniform 
throughout the United States, legisla- 
tion in the various States differs 
widely as to the standard of weight 
for a bushel of various kinds of prod- 
uce. The law in each State usually 
specifies the weight of a bushel, re- 
quiring it to weigh at least the 
amount specified. The following ta- 
ble shows the range in the standard 
weights as prescribed by statute in 
the various States, and also the stand- 
ard or minimum prescribed by the 
laws of the United States and in ef- 
fect wherever there is no State statute 



628 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



to the contrary. The majority of the 
States have adopted the United States 
standard, and there is an increasing 
tendency in this direction. Eventu- 
ally, it is to be hoped that uniformity 
will prevail throughout the country: 



Abticle. 



Apples, dried , 

Apples, green 

Barley 

Beans, castor 

Beana, white 

Beets 

Bran 

Buckwheat 

Carrots 

Charcoal (hardwood) . . . 

Clover seed 

Coal, anthracite 

Com, Indian (in ear).. . , 

Com meal 

Com, shelled 

Cranberries 

Flax seed 

Grass seed (blue) 

Grass seed (Hungarian), 

Grass seed (timothy) 

Hemp seed 

Hickory nuts 

Lime, quick 

Malt 

Millet seed 

Oats 

Onions 

Peaches, dried 

Peas 

Peas, ground 

Peas, in pod 

Plastering hair, dry 

Popcorn 

Pototoes 

Potatoes, Irish 

Rye 

Rye, meal 

Salt, coarse 

Salt, fine 

Turnips 

Wheat 



Range in 


U.S. 


different 


stand- 


States 


ard. 


Lbs. per 


Lbs. per 


bu. 


bu. 


22-28 


26 


50-56 




43-50 


48 




46 


60-70 


60 


SO-60 






20 


40-56 


48 


50-55 




22-30 




60-64 


60 


76-80 


80 


68-72 


70 


48-50 


48 


52-60 


56 


33 




44-56 


56 




44 


45-50 


50 


42-60 


45 




44 


60 




80 




34-38 


34 


45-50 


50 


26-36 


32 


48-57 


57 


28-33 


33 


46-60 


60 




24 


32 




8 




70 




46-56 


55 


56-60 


60 


32-56 


56 


50-56 




50-85 




55-56 




42-60 


55 




60 



Weight of Commodities by State 
Law. — The following are the excep- 
tions to the United States standard: 

Barley, 48 lb., except in Oregon, 46 lb. ; in 
Alabama, Georgia, Kentuclcy, Pennsylvania, 
47 lb. ; in California, 50 lb. ; in Louisiana, 32 lb. 

Beans, 60 lb., except in Maine, 62 lb.; in 
Massachusetts, 70 lb. 

Buckwheat, 52 lb., except in California, 40 
lb.; in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, 
Michigan, Mississippi, New York, Pennsylva- 
nia, Vermont, Wisconsin, 48 lb.; in Idaho, 
North Dakota, Oldahoma, Oregon, South 
Dakota, Texas, Washington, 42 lb.; in Kan- 
saSj Minnesota, New Jersey, North Carolina, 
Ohio, Tennessee, 50 lb. ; in Kentucky, 56 lb. 

Clover seed, 60 lb., except in New Jersey, 
64 lb. 



Coal, 80 lb., except in Kentucky, Pennsyl- 
vania, 76 lb. 

Com in the ear, 70 lb., except in Mississippi, 
72 lb. ; in Ohio, 68 lb. ; in Indiana after Decem- 
ber 1st, and in Kentucky after May 1st, fol- 
lowiDg,the time uf husking itj 68 lb. 

Corn meal, 50 lb., except m Alabama, Ar- 
kansas, Georgia, Illinois, Mississippi, North 
Carolina, Tennessee, 48 lb. 

Com, shelled, 56 lb., except in California, 
521b. 

Grass seed, 45 lb., except in Arkansas, 60 
lb.; in North Dakota, South Dakota, 42 lb. 

Oats, 32 lb., except in Louisiana and Ore- 
gon, 36 lb. ; in Maryland, 26 lb. ; in New Jersey 
and Virginia, 30 lb. 

Potatoes, 60 lb., except in Maryland, Penn- 
sylvania, Virginia, 56 lb. 

Rye, 66 lb., except in California, 54 lb.: in 
Louisiana, 32 lb. 

Table of Weight of Commodities 
per Cubic Foot. — The following is a 
table of the weight per cubic foot of 
various metals and other commodi- 
ties: 

Brass 534i lbs. 

Bricks 1251bs. 

Charcoal (hardwood) 18^ lbs. 

Charcoal (pinewood) 18 lbs. 

Clay 1351b8. 

Clay and stones 160 lbs. 

Coal, anthracite 50 to 55 lbs. 

Coal, bituminous 45 to 55 lbs. 

Copper 555 lbs. 

Cork 151bs. 

Earth, loose 95 lbs. 

Granite 1651bs. 

Iron, wrought 486f lbs. 

Lead 708| lbs. 

Marble 171 lbs. 

Sea water 64A lbs. 

Soil, common 124 lbs. 

Soil, strong 127 lbs. 

Tallow 591bs. 

Water 1,000 oz. 

Wood, oak 55 lbs. 

Wood.redpine 421bs. 

Wood, white pine 30 lbs. 

To find the weight of any of these 
commodities, arrange loose materials 
in square bins, or pack such commodi- 
ties as bricks in piles having straight 
sides and square corners; multiply 
the length, width, and depth together 
in feet and multiply this result by the 
number of cubic pounds in a cubic 
foot, as shown by the above table. 
The result can then be turned Into 
quarters, hundredweight, or tons by 
reference to the table of cubic 
measure. 

Household Weights and Measures. 
— The uniform accuracy of results ob- 
tained by professional cooks, bakers, 
and caterers is due, in great degree, 
to the fact that the measurement of 
ingredients called for by their recipes 
is accurately determined by weight. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



629 



and the temperature of their ovens 
is definitely ascertained by means of 
the thermometer. Thus the condi- 
tions surrounding each batch of food' 
cooked are made identical, and uni- 
formity in the product necessarily 
follows. Any cook can obtain similar 
results by like means, and a good 
pair of scales in the kitchen may be 
regarded as one of the marks of a, 
good housekeeper. There are numer- 
ous occasions when the use of scales 
is necessary, and there is no ques- 
tion but that measurement by weight 
could be advantageously made use of 
far oftener than is usually done at 
present. 

Capacity measures, or measurement 
by bulk, in comparison to measure- 
ment by weight, is always more or less 
inaccurate. But steps can and should 
be taken to insure as great a degree 
of accuracy as possible. Hence all 
dry ingredients, such as flour, meal, 
confectioners' and powdered sugar, 
should be sifted before using. Mus- 
tard, baking powder, cream of tartar, 
soda, salt, and spices should be stirred 
before measuring to lighten and free 
them from lumps. To dip a measur- 
ing cup into flour or other dry mate- 
rial in order to fill it and to then 
shake the cup to level its contents, 
condenses or packs the flour and 
causes the cup to contain more than 
the recipe calls for. Instead, the 
sifted material should be lifted into 
the measuring cup by spoonfuls, the 
contents rounded slightly, and leveled 
with the back of a case knife, care 
being taken not to shake the cup. 

A cupful is measured level with the 
brim; a heaping cupful rounding, not 
as much as will stand upon the cup; 
a scant cupful level, with two table- 
spoonfuls taken out. 

All ingredients, measured by the 
tablespoonful or teaspoonful, are 
measured level unless otherwise 
stated. To measure a. spoonful, fill 
the spoon and level it with the back 
of a case knife. For a half spoonful, 
first measure a spoonful, then divide 
it in halves, lengthwise, with a thin 
knife blade. To measure a quarter 



spoonful, first measure a half spoonful 
and divide it crosswise, a little nearer 
the back than the point of the spoon, 
to allow for its curvature. This is 
equivalent to one saltspoonful. A 
speck is a little less than one half, a 
saltspoonful or one eighth of a tea- 
spoonful. Butter, lard, and other 
solid fats are measured by packing 
them solidly into the spoon or cup 
and leveling with a knife. Butter 
should be measured before melting, 
unless melted butter is stated in the 
recipe, in which case it should be 
measured after melting. 

The ordinary cofl'ee cup, which 
holds half a pint, is the common 
standard of domestic measure. A 
common-sized tumbler holds the same 
amount. Cups and tumblers, however, 
vary more or less in the size, and are 
not well adapted for use as measures 
on account of their curvature. A cup 
is smaller at the bottom than at the 
top. Hence to measure half a cup- 
ful in a coffee cup it must be filled 
a little more than halfway up. The 
ideal utensil for this purpose is a 
standard measuring cup, having 
straight sides divided into fourths 
and thirds, and containing half a 
pint. Measuring cups of glass are the 
most convenient, as it is easier with 
them to see when the measurements 
of small quantities are level. Also 
they do not rust and can be more eas- 
ily kept clean. A common tin meas- 
uring cup is, however, useful and 
convenient. Either of these can be 
obtained at any good 5- and 10-cent 
store or mail-order establishment. 

Spoons also vary in size. Hence it 
is well to use the same spoon in meas- 
uring or to use the small measuring 
scoop spoons, which are obtainable 
in different sizes. The use of the 
same spoon throughout in making up 
any recipe will keep the proportions 
correct. A heaping spoonful is all 
the spoon will hold. To get a rounded 
spoonful, fill the spoon and shake it 
until it is slightly rounded on top. 

Tables of Domestic Measure. — ^The 
following are tables of domestic liq- 
uid and dry measure with compara- 



630 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



tive measurements by spoonfuls, cup- 
fuls, and the weight of distilled water. 
It will be noted that a tablespoonful, 
liquid measure, is divided into four 
teaspoonfuls, but that the tablespoon- 
ful, dry measure, is divided into three 
teaspoonfuls only: 

Domestic Liquid Measure , 

10 drops 1 saltspoon. 

4 saltspoons 1 teaspoon. 

4 teaspoons 1 tablespoon. 

4 tablespoons 1 basting spoon. 

2 basting spoons 1 gill. 

2 gills 1 cup. 

2 cups 1 pint. 

2 pints 1 quart. 

4 quarts 1 gallon. 

Domestic Dry Measure 

4 salt-spoons 1 teaspoon. 

3 teaspoons 1 tablespoon. 

12 tablespoons 1 cup. 

8 tablespoons, heaping. ... 1 cup. 

Measurement by Water 

I oz 1 teaspoon. 

§ oz 1 tablespoon. 

2 oz 1 basting spoon. 

4 oz Igill. 

8 oz 1 pint. 

16 oz 1 quart. 



Measurement by Spoons 

10 drops 1 saltspoon. 

4 saltepoons 1 teaspoon. 

4 teaspoons 1 tablespoon. 

i oz. water 1 tablespoon. 

1 basting spoon 4 tablespoons. 

1 gill 8 tablespoons. 

1 gill 32 teaspoons. 

1 cup 64 teaspoons. 

1 cup 16 tablespoons. 

1 cup 4 basting E^Hrans. 

Measurement by Coffee Cup or Common 
Tumbler 

64 teaspoons 1 cup. 

16 tablespoons 1 cup. 

4 basting spoons 1 cup. 

2 gills 1 cup. 

i pint 1 cup. 

8 fluid oz 1 cup. 

1 pint 2 cups. 

1 quart 4 cups. 

Weight of Food Stuffs TTsed in 
Cookery. — The following is a com- 
parative list of the bulk and weight 
of different articles of common do- 
mestic use. These will be found to 
vary slightly, but are as accurate as 
can be given and have been proved 
by universal experience to be suffi- 
ciently correct for all practical pur- 
poses: 



AUTXCLE. 

Almonds, shelled 1 

Barley 1 

Barley 1 

Bread crumbs, grated In 

Bread crumbs 1 

Butter 1 

Butter, hard 1 

Butter, melted 1 

Butter, packed 2 

Butter, soft 

Butter, soft 1 

Butter, soft, well packed 2 

Citron, chopped '. . . 1 

Coffee 2 

Coffee 1 

Coffee, ground 2 

Coffee, groimd 4 

Com meal 1 

Com meal 1 

Com meal 3 

Corn meal 1 

Cream ^ 1 

Currants, cleaned and dried 1 

Dates 1 



Eggs 

£ggs, average size 10, 

Eggs, large 9, 

Figs 1 

Flour 1 

Flour 1 

Flour 2 

Flour 1 

Flour 1 

Flour 4 

Flour 4 

Flour, dry 4 

Flour, well sifted 1 

Juice of an ordinary lemon 

Lard 1 

Lard ^ 



QuANTiTT. "Weight. 

cup, 7 oz. 

tablespoon, heaped* ^ oz. 

cup, 4 oz. 

cup, 2 oz. 
breakfast cup.well pressed, abt. 4 oz. 

tablespoon, rounded, 1 oz. 

cup, even, 7 oz. 

cup, 7 oz. 

cups, scant, 1 lb. 

size of an egg, 2 oz. 

quart, 1 lb. 

cups, 1 lb. 

cup, 7 oz. 

tablespoons, rounded* 1 oz. 

cup, 4 oz. 

tablespoons, heaped, 1 oz. 

cups, 1 lb. 

tablespoon, heaped, ^ oz. 

cup, even, 4|oz. 

cups, 1 lb. 

quart, 1 lb. 2oz. 

cup (i pint), 7 oz. 

cup, 6 oz. 

cuf), i lb. 
white of, about 1 oz. 
yolk of, about 1 oz. 

1 lb. 

1 lb. 

cup. i lb. 

teaspoon, heaped, ^oz. 

tablespoon, heaped, 1 oz. 

tablespoons, 1 oz. 

cup, level, 4 oz. 

cup, heaped, 6 oz. 

cups, 1 lb.' 

cups, 1 quart, 

cups, even, l lb. 

quart, heaped, i lb! 
, , , , , about 1 tablespoon, 

tablespoon, rounded, 1 oz. 

size of an egg, 2 oz! 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 631 

AsTicLE. QuANTirr. Weight. 

Lard 2 cups 

Lard, hard 1 cup, even, 

Lard, melted 1 cup, even, 

Lardj soft 1 quart. 

Liquid 1 generous pint, 

Meal, Indian 3 cups, even. 

Meat, chopped 1 cup,8oiid, 

.Meat, chopped fine, well packed 1 pint. 

Milk 1 tablespoon. 

Milk 1 cup(ipint). 

Milk 2 cups, 

Molasses 1 cup ^i pint). 

Nutmegs 5 medium sized. 

Prunes 1 cup. 

Raisins 1 cup, 

Baisins, stoned 1 breakfast oup, heaped, 

Hice 1 tablespoon, neaped, 

Hice 1 cup, heaped. 

Sago 1 tablespoon, heaped. 

Sago 1 cup. 

Spice, ground 1 tablespoon, heaped. 

Sugar, brown 1 tablespoon, well heaped. 

Sugar, brown 1 cup, heaped. 

Sugar, brown 2i teacups, level, 

Sugar, coffee, A 2 teacups, well heaped. 

Sugar, granulated 1 tablespoon, heaped. 

Sugar, granulated 1 tablespoon, well heaped. 

Sugar, granulated , 2 teacups, level. 

Sugar, granulated .' 1 pint, heaped. 

Sugar, powdered 2 tablespoons, heaped, 

Sugar, powdered 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, powdered 1) pints. 

Sugar, powdered 2* cups, even. 

Sugar, powdered 2| cups. 

Sugar, powdered 2| cups, level. 

Tea 1 tablespoon, heaped. 

Tea , 1 teaspoon, heaped 

Tea 1 cup, heaped. 

Vinegar 1 cup (i pmt). 

Walnuts, shelled 1 cup. 

Water 1 cup (J pint), 

Water 2 cups. 

Cooks' Complete Time Table. — The ent articles of food, and the like. It 
qiiestion which is frequently asked by is not possible to answer all these 
liousekeepers. How long is it necessary questions exactly without a knowledge 
to cook this article or that? is not of all the conditions surrounding the 
easily answered. Several factors enter individual case. Hence it is always 
into the calculation. Among these necessary for the housekeeper to use 
are size, especially as to thickness; good judgment. But the following 
age, as effecting the tenderness or table is based upon the practical ex- 
toughness of meat and the softness or perience of the best cooks and other 
hardness of vegetables; temperature, authorities, and will at least afford a 
and others. Closely allied questions basis of comparison. The various con- 
are the degrees of temperature at ditions likely to be met with in prac- 
which different substances cook, tem- tical experience are, as far as possi- 
perature produced by different kinds ble, indicated: 
of fuel, time required to digest differ- 

Akticle. How Cooked. Time. 

Artichokes, globe Boiled,' 30 m.-l h. 

Artichokes, Jerusalem ; Boiled,' 15 m.-30 m. 

Asparagus Boiled, 16 m.-26 m. 

Au Gratin dishes Baked,' 10 m.-20 m. 

Bacon Boiled gently, ISm. 

Bacon Broiled, 4 m.-8 m. 

Bacon Fried, 3 m.-5 m. 

Bacon Fried (in its own fat), 2m.-3m. 

Beans Baked,' 8-10 h. 

Beans, Lima Boiled, 30 m.-40 m. 

Beans, old Boiled, 2 h.-4 h. 

Beans, string Boiled,' 1 h.-3 h. 

Beans, with pork Baked, 6 h.-6 b. 



1 


Ih. 


7 


oz. 


7 


oz. 


1 


lb. 


1 


Ih. 


1 


lb. 


« 


nz. 


1 


lb. 


t 


oz. 
oz. 


1 


Ih. 


12 


oz. 


1 


oz. 


41b. 


8 


oz. 


41b. 
4oz. 


8 


oz. 


1 


oz. 


8 


oz. 


4oz. 


1 


oz. 


41b. 


1 


Ih. 


1 


Ih. 


1 


oz. 


1 


oz. 


1 


lb. 


14 


oz. 


1 


oz. 


1 


o»i. 


1 


h. 


1 


h. 


I 


h. 


1 


Ih. 


ioz. 
Joz. 


2 


oz. 


8 


oz. 


7 


oz. 


K 


oz. 


1 


lb. 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Article. How Cooked. 

Beans, young Boiled, 

Beet, brisket of Boiled gently, 

Beef, corned Boiled gently, 

Beef, corned, fancy brisket Boiled, 

Beef, corned, rib or flank Boiled, 

Beef, fillet of Rare, 

Beef, fillet of Rare,^ 

Beef, fresh Boiled, 

Beef, long or short fillet of Baked, 

Beef, rib roast, rolled Rare,* 

Beef, ribs or loin Rare, 

Beef, ribs or loin Well done. 

Beef, rolled rib or rump Baked, 

Beef, sirloin Baked (rare). 

Beef, sirloin Roasted (rare). 

Beef, sirloin Baked (well done), 

Beets, new Boiled, 

Beets, old Boiled, 

Biscuit Baked, 

Bread, brick loaf Baked, 

Brocoli Boiled, 

Brown bread Steamed, 

Brussels sprouts Boiled, 

Brussels sprouts Boiled, 

Cabbage Boiled, 

Cabbage, sliced Boiled, 

Cabbage, winter Boiled, 

Cabbage, young, quartered Boiled, 

Cake, fruit Baked, 

Cake, layer Baked, 

Cake, Ipaf, plain Baked, 

Cake, sponge, loaf Baked,^ 

Cake, thick Baked, 

Cake, thin Baked, 

Carrots, old Boiled, 

Carrots, young Boiled, 

Cauliflower Boiled, 

Celery Boiled, 

Chicken , Broiled, 

Chicken Roasted (in oven). 

Chicken, fall Boiled, 

Chicken, prairie Broiled, 

Chicken, spring Boiled gently. 

Chicken 3 to 4 lbs Baked, 

Chops Broiled, 

Chops, breaded Fried, 

Chops, lamb Broiled, 

Chops, mutton Broiled, 

Clams Boiled, 

Cookies Baked, 

Com Boiled, 

Corn, green Boiled, 

Croquettes Fried, 

Cucumbers Boiled, 

Custards Baked,' 

Doughnuts Fried, 

Duck Baked,* 

Duck, domestic ; Roasted, 

Duck, full growth Roasted, 

Duck, tame Baked, 

Duck, wild Roasted, 

Duckling Roasted, 

Endive Stewed, 

Fish Broiled, 

Fish balls Fried, 

Fish, bass Boiled, 

Fish, blue Boiled, 

Fish, blue Broiled, 

Fish, cod Boiled, 

Fish, fillets of Fried, 

Fish, haddock Boiled, 

Fish, halibut, whole or thick piece Boiled, 

Fish, salmon, whole or thick piece Boiled, 

Fish, shad Broiled, 

Fish, slices of Broiled, 

Fish, small Fried, 

Fish, small '. Boiled, 

Fish, small and fillets Baked, 

Fish, smelts Fried, 

Fish, whole Baked, 

Fish, 6 to 8 lbs Baked, 



TlUE. 

about 1 h. 
about 30 m. 
about 31 m. 

5 h.-8 h. 
4 h.-6 h. 
20 m.-30 m. 
45 m.-l h. 
4 h.-6 h. 
20 m.-30 m. 
10 m. 

8 m.-lO m. 
12 m.-16 m. 
12 m.-lS m. 

8 m.-10 m. 

9 m. 

12 m.-15 m. 
45 m.-l h. 

4 h.-6 h. 
10 m.-20 m. 
40 m.-l h. 
about 30 m. 

3h. 
15 m.-25 m. 
10 m.-20 m. 
30 m.-80 m 
40 m. 

1 h. or morei 
30 m.-45 m. 

2h.-3h. 
15 m.-20 m. 
30m.-ljh. 
45 m.-l h. 
30 m.-40 m. 
15 m.-20 m. 

1 h. or more 
20 m.-30 m. 
15 m.-35 m. 
* 20 m.-30 m. 
20 m. 
20 m. 

1 h.-li h. 

4 m.-6 m. 
20 m. 

1 h.-li h. 

8 m. 

4 m.— 10 m. 
8 m.-lO m. 
8 m.-10 m. 
3 m,-5 m. 

10 m.-15 m. 
10 m.-20 m. 
20 m.-25 m. 

1 m.— 2 m. 
12 m.-15 m. 
20 m.-30 m. 

3 m.-5 m. 
20 m.-30 m. 

1 h. or more. 
45 m.-l h. 
40 m.-l h. 
12 m. 
25 m.-35 m. 

5 m.-lO m. 

5 m.-15 m. 
Im. 

10 m. 

10 m. 

15 m.-20 m. 

10 m. 

4 m.-6 m. 
10 m. 

15 m. 

10 m.-20 m. 

15 m.-30 m. 

12 m.-15 m. 

1 m.-3 m. 

6 m.-8 m. 
20 m.-30 m. 

Im. 

10 m. 

Ih. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



Ahticlb. How Cooked. Time. 

Fowl, old Boiled gently, 20 m.-30 m. 

Fowl, old.. Roasted, 20 m.-30 m. 

Fowl, tender Boiled, 15 m. 

Fritters. ... Fried, 3 m.-5 m. 

Gingerbread Baked, 20 m.-30 m. 

Goose Roasted,^ 1 h.-lj h. 

Goose, 8 to 10 lbs Roasted, 2 h. or more. 

Graham gems .Baked, 30 m. 

Grouse Roasted (in oven), 30 m.-35 m. 

Grouse Roasted, 25 m.-30 m. 

Ham Boiled gently, 20 m. 

Ham Boiled, 4 h.-6 h. 

Ham Roasted, 15 m. 

Kohl-rabi Boiled, 15 m.-20 m. 

Lamb Roasted (well done), 15 m.-18 m. 

Lamb ,. Baked (well done), 15 m. 

Lentils Boiled, 2 h. or more. 

Lettuce Steamed, 10 m.-15 m. 

Liver Broiled, 4 m.-8 m. 

Liver Roasted' (well done), 2 h. in all. 

Liver, whole Baked, 12 m. 

Loaf bread Baked, 40 m.-l h. 

Lobster Boiled, 30 m.-40 m. 

Macaroni Boiled, 20 m.-50 m. 

Meat, for bouillon Simmer gently, 35 m. 

Miiffins Fried, 3 m.-5 m. 

Muffins, baking powder Baked, 20 m.-25 m. 

Muffins, yeast Baked, about 50 m. 

Mushrooms Stewed, about 15 m. 

Mutton Boiled, 15 m. 

Mutton Baked (rare), 10 m. 

Mutton Baked (well done), 16 m. 

Mutton, leg of Roasted (rare), 10 m. 

Mutton, leg of Boiled gently, 17 m. 

Mutton, leg of Roasted (well done), 15 m. 

Mutton, lom of Roasted (rare), 9 m. 

Mutton, saddle of Roasted (rare), 10 m. 

Mutton, shoulder, stu£Fed Roasted, 16 m.-25 m. 

Mutton, shoulder, stuffed Roasted (well done), - 16 m. 

Okra Boiled, 30 m. or more 

Onions Boiled, 45 m.-2 h. 

Onions, old Boiled, 2 h. or more. 

Onions, young Boiled, 30 m.-l h. 

Oyster plant Boiled, 45 m.-l h. 

Oysters Boiled, 3 m.-5 m. 

Parsnips Boiled, 30 m.-45 m. 

Parsnips, large Boiled, 1 h.-li h. 

Parsnips, small Boiled, 30 m.— 1 h. 

Partridge Roasted, 35 m.— 40 m. 

Peas Boiled, 20 m.-50 m. 

Peas, green Boiled^, 15 m. or more 

Pie crust Baked, 30 m.-45 m. 

Pies Baked, 30 m.-45 m. 

Pigeons Roasted, 20 m.-30 m. 

Pork Baked (well done), 30 m. 

Pork Roasted (well done), 20 m. 

Pork, leg of Roasted* (well done), 20 m. 

Pork, loin of . . . '. Roasted* (well done), 18 m. 

Pork, shoidder of-. Roasted* (well done), 20 m. 

Potatoes Baked, 30 m.-4S m. 

Potatoes Baked, 45 m.-l h. 

Potatoes Baked, 25 m.-40 m. 

Potatoes Boiled, 20 m.-30 m. 

Potatoes Boiled, 25 m.-35 m. 

Potatoes Fried, 2 m.-5 m. 

Potatoes, sweet Baked, 1 h.-li h. 

Potatoes, sweet Boiled, 15 m.-26 m. 

Potatoes, sweet Boiled, 45 m.-l h. 

Pudding, 1 quart or more Steamed, 2 h.— 3 h. 

Puddings, bread Baked, 45 m.-l h. 

Puddings, plum Baked, 2 h.-3 h. 

Puddings, rice Baked, 45 m.-l h. 

Puddings, tapioca Baked, 45 m.-l h. 

Pumpkm Stewed, 4 h.-5 h. 

Quail Broiled, 10 m.-15 m. 

Quail, in paper cases Broiled, 10 m.-12 m. 

Rabbit Roastfid (in oven), 30 m.-45 m. 

Rice Boiled, 20 m.-30 m. 

Rice Steamed, 40 m.-l h. 

Bolls Baked, 10 m.-15 m. 

Rolls, biscuits Baked, 10 m.-30 m. 



634 HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 

Akticlb. How Cooked. Time, 

Salsify Boiled, about 1 h. 

Scalloped dishes Baked,^ 10 m.-20 m. 

Sea kale Boiled, 16 in.-20 m. 

Sorrel Scalded, 10 m.-15 m. 

Spinach Boiled, 20 m.-30 m. 

Spinach, covered closely Boiled, about 1 h. 

Squabs Broiled, 10 m.— 15 m. 

Squash Boiled, 20 m.-30 m. 

Steak Broiled, 4 m.-8 m. 

Steak, 1 inch thick Broiled, 8 m.— 12 m. 

Steak, IJ inch thick Broiled, 9 m.-15 m. 

Timbales Baked, about 20 m. 

Tomatoes Baked, 30 m.-45 m. 

Tomatoes Stewed, 15 m.-20 m. 

Tomatoes Stewed, 30 m.-45 m. 

Tongue, corned Boiled, 3 h.-4 h. 

Tongue, salted Boiled, 3 h.-4 h. 

Tripe Boiled gently, 20 m. 

Turkey Boiled, 15 m.-18 m. 

Turkey Boiled gently, 20 m. 

Turkey, 8 lbs Roasted (in oven), 3 h. 

Turkey. 8 lbs Baked, 3 h. 

Turkey. 8 to 10 lbs Roasted, 12 m. 

Turnips Boiled, 35 m.—45 m. 

Turnips, old BoUed, 45 m.-75 m. 

TiuTiips, young Boiled, 15 m.-20 m. 

Veal Baked (well done), 20 m. 

Veal Roasted (well done), 18 m.-20 m. 

Veal, fillet of Roasted^ (well done},- 20 m. 

Veal, loin of Roasted^ (well done), 17 m. 

Veal, shoulder, stuffed Roasted* (well done), 20 m. 

Venison Roasted (rare), 10 m. 

Venison, haunch of Roasted (rare), 10 m. 

Venison, saddle of Roasted (rare), 10 m. 

4 

' According to age. ^ According to size. ^ Jq moderate oven. 

* In hot oven. 6 In slow oven. 

GOOES' TABLE OF FBOFOBTIONS 

Baking powder, for bread 1 teaspoon to 1 cup flour. 

Baking powder, for cake 1 teaspoon to 2 cups flour. 

Batters 1 scant cup liquid to 1 cup flour. 

Bread 1 scant cup liquid to 3 cups flour. 

Bread 1 teaspoon baking powder to 1 cup flour. 

Bread 4 teaspoons baking powder, (even) to 1 quart flour. 

Cake 1 saltspoon spice to 1 loaf. 

Cake, plain^ 1 teaspoon baking powder to 2 cups flour. 

Cake, plain 1 teaspoon extract to 1 loaf. 

Cake, plain 1 saltspoon salt to 1 loaf. 

Cloves, for soup 4 to 1 quart soup. 

Cream tartar 2 teaspoons to 1 teaspoon soda Gevel). 

Custard 1 teaspoon extract to 1 quart. 

Custard 1 saltspoon salt to 4 cups milk. 

Extract, for cake 1 teaspoon to 1 loaf. 

Extract, for custard 1 teaspoon to 1 quart. 

Flour 2 quarts to 1 teaspoon salt. 

Flour, for batter 1 cup to 1 scant cup liquid. 

Hour, for bread 3 cups to 1 scant cup liquid. 

Flour, for bread 1 cup to 1 teaspoon oakmg powder. 

Flour, for bread 1 quart to 4 teaspoons baMng powder (even). 

Flour, for cake 2 cups to 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Hour, for muffins 2 full cups to 1 scant cup liquid. 

Herbs, mixed, for soup, each 1 teaspoon to 1 quart soup. 

Liquid, for batter 1 scant cup to 1 cup flour. 

Liquid, for bread 1 scant cup to 3 cups flour (full). 

Liquid, for custard 1 quart to 1 teaspoon extract. 

Liquid, for muffins 1 scant cup to 2 full cups flour. 

Liquid, for soup stock 1 quart for each pound of meat and bone. 

Liquid, for yeast 1 cup to i cake, compressed. 

Meat 1 quart water to 1 lb. meat and bone. 

Milk, for custard 4 cups to 1 saltspoon salt. 

Milk, sour 2 cups to 1 teaspoon soda. 

Molasses 1 cup to 1 teaspoon soda. 

Muffins 1 acant cup liquid to 2 full cups flour. 

Pepper (white) for soup 1 saltspoon to 1 quart soup. 

Pepper corns for soup 4 to 1 quart soup. 

§^*' ■ 1 teaspoon to 2 quarts flour. 

baJt, for cake 1 saltspoon to 1 loaf. 

bait, for custard 1 saltspoon to 4 cups milk. 

bait, for soup 1 teaspoon to 1 quart soup. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



635 



Soda 1 teaspoon (level) to 2 teaspoons cream tartar. 

Soda 1 teaspoon to 2 cups milk (sour). 

Soda 1 teaspoon to 1 cup molasses. 

Soda 1 teaspoon (even) to 2 teaspoons cream tartar. 

Soup stock 1 teaspoon mixed herbs to 1 quart. 

Soup stock 1 teaspoon salt to 1 quart. 

Soup stock 1 saltspoon pepper (white) to 1 quart. 

Soup stock 4 pepper corns (black) to 1 quart. 

Soup stock 4 cloves to 1 quart. 

Soup stock 1 tablespoon vegetables, chopped, to 1 quart. 

Spice 1 saltspoon to 1 loaf of cake. 

Vegetables, for soup 1 tablespoon, chopped, each to 1 quart stock. 

Yeast 1 cup (liquid) to i cake (compressed). 

' Cake, made light with eggs needs less. 



Paper Measure. — The mode of meas- 
urement by counting and otherwise 
employed by paper manufacturers 
and dealers, printers, and the book 
and stationery trade is a source of 
confusion to many persons. Paper, 
like other commoditieg, can be most 
accurately measured by weight, and it 
is accordingly bought and sold at 
wholesale by the pound. 

Paper can be made to order in any 
desired size, and with large orders 
this is customary, to avoid waste. 
For convenience, however, in defer- 
ence to custom, paper is ordinarily 
kept in stock by wholesale dealers, 
cut to various convenient sizes, and 
sold by count according to the follow- 
ing table: 

24 sheets 1 quire. 

■ 20 quires 1 ream. 

2 reams 1 bundle. 

5 bundles 1 bale. 

1 bale contains. . .200 quiresor 4,800 sheets. 
480 sheets 1 ream. 

A somewhat different table of meas- 
urement is used between printers 
and paper manufacturers (on account 
of the waste of paper from soiled 
sheets and otherwise in printing) as 
follows: 

24 sheets 1 quire. 

20 sheets 1 quire, outsides. 

25 sheets 1 quire, printers'. 

20 quires 1 ream. 

21i quires 1 ream, printers'. 

2 reams 1 bundle. 

4 reams 1 bundle, printers'. 

10 reams 1 bale. 

60 skins 1 roll of parchment. 

Now, for convenience In counting, 
500 sheets are more often called a 
ream, and the word quire is used only 
for the folded note paper, other paper 
being usually sold by the pound. 

Quotations are ordinarily made in 
cents per pound. But the number of 



pounds in a given ream of paper is 
determined by the thickness of the In- 
dividual sheets, and the weight in 
turn determines the price per ream. 
Hence it is customary in the paper 
trade to refer to paper as 40 pound, 
80 pound, or 100 pound stock, mean- 
ing the number of pounds required to 
make a ream of a known sized sheet 
of the stock in question. A bill for 
paper properly expresses all of these 
particulars. For example: 32 X 45 
/SOO/IOS @ 5 cts., $5.35, signifies that 
the sheets in question are 32" X 45" in 
size, that 1 ream, containing 500 such 
sheets, will weigh IDS pounds, which, 
at 5 cts. per pound, would amount to 
$5.25 a ream. 

Stock Sizes of Paper. — The follow- 
ing sizes of vt,rious grades of paper 
were formerly recognized generally 
by the trade and kept on hand in most 
wholesale printing houses. This is 
still the case to some extent; but the 
sizes recognized by these trade terms 
vary considerably, and the present 
tendency in the trade appears to be 
in favor of dropping the use of these 
trade terms, and in buying or selling 
to quote, in all cases, the size of the 
sheet only: 

Writing Papers — Flat Cap 

Name. Inches. 

Law blank 13 x 16 

Flat cap 14 x 17 

Crown 15 xl9 

Demy 16 x21 

Folio post 17 x22 

Check folio 17 x24 

Double cap 17 x28 

Medium ' 18 x23 

Extra size folio 19 x 23 

Royal 19 x24 

Superroyal • 20 x28 

Imperial 22 x 30 

Elephant. 22ix27J 

Columbia 23 x 33i 

Atlas 26 x33 

Double elephant 26 x 40 



636 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



PrirUing Paper 

(Used in Printing Newspapers and Books) 

Name. Inches. 

Medium 19x24 

Royal ^''?i 

Superroyal ^ oo 

Imperial 22 x 32 

Medium-and-half 24x30 

Small double medium 24x36 

Double medium 24 x 38 

Double royal 26x40 

Double superroyal 2Sx 42 

Also sometimes 29 x 43 

Broad twelves 23x41 

Double imperial 32x46 

Also sometimes 32x44 

Writing Papers — Folded 

Name. Inches. 

Billet note 6x8 

Octavo note 7 x 9 

Commercial note 8 x 10 

Packet note 9 xll 

Bath note 8i x 14 

Letter 10 x 16 

Commercial letter 11 x 17 

Packet post Hi x 18 

Ex. packet post Hi x 18i 

Foolscap 12i x 16 

Classifying Books. — Books are 
printed on sheets of paper of varying 
sizes, which are afterwards folded and 
trimmed to the size of book desired. 
One sheet of paper thus folded is 
caUed by printers a " signature." 
The marks sometimes found at inter- 
vals at the bottom of pages as a, b, c, 
1, 2, 3, la, 3a, etc., are what printers 
call " signature marks." They are 
placed on the first page of each sig- 
nature to indicate the order of the 
signatures for the convenience of 
binders in folding and gathering the 
sheets. These are less commonly used 
than formerly. In the early days of 
the printing industry book papers 
were practically of the same size. 
Hence the number of times a sheet 
was folded to make one signature of 
a book was an accurate means of clas- 
sifying book sizes. A sheet of paper 
folded once into 2 leaves making 4 
pages was then called a, folio; 1 
folded twice into 4 leaves making 8 
pages a quarto, and so on, according 
to the following table: 

2 leaves folio, 4 pp. 

4 leaves quarto, 4to, 8 pp. 

8 leaves octavo, 8vo, 16 pp. 

12 leaves duodecimo, 12mo, 24 pp. 

16 leaves 16mo, 32 pp. 

18 leaves 18mo, 36 pp. 

24 leaves 24mo, 48 pp. 

32 leaves 32mo, 64 pp. 



These terms, in deference to custom, 
are still retained; but on account of 
the extent to which paper is manufac- 
tured to order in a great variety of 
shapes and sizes, these terms are no 
longer accurate. They may be ap- 
plied without regard to the sizes of 
the sheet folded, which may vary 
widely. Hence publishers apply them 
rather loosely, according to the ap- 
proximate size of the volume com- 
pared to the earlier standards. The 
following table indicates roughly the 
most usual sizes: 

Size. Inches. 

32mo 4 X 5} 

24mo 4ix 5J 

18mo 4Jx 6 

16mo 5x7 

12mo Six 7i 

Crown octavo 5i x 8 

Octavo 6 X 9 

Royal octavo 7 x 10 

4to or quarto 10 x 12i 

Folio 13 X 15 

Or a more accurate subdivision of 
the principal sizes of book papers 
gives the following approximate book 
sizes : 

Name. Inches. 

Royal folio 12 x 12 

Demy folio 18 x 11 

Super imperial quarto — 4to 15i x 13 

Royal 4to 12ixl0 

Demy 4to Hi x 8i 

Crown 4to 11 x 8 

Royal octavo lOi x 6i 

Medium 8vo 9i x 6 

Demy 8vo 9 x 5i 

Crown 8vo 7i x 4i 

Foolscap 8vo 7 x 4 

12mo 7x4 

16mo 6ix 4 

Square 16mo 4i x 3i 

Royal 24mo 5ix 3i 

Demy 24mo 5 x 2i 

Royal 32mo 5x3 

Post 32mo 4 x 2i 

Demy 48mo 3i x 2i 

Counting in Groups. — The units in- 
dicated by the following table are in 
frequent use for counting in various 
trades and otherwise: 

2 things 1 pair. 

6 things 1 set. 

20 things 1 score. 

12 units 1 dozen. 

12 dozen 1 gross. 

12 gross 1 great gross. 

Copying. — A mode of counting oc- 
casionally made use of in copying 
manuscripts, taking evidence in courts 
of law, and otherwise, is as follows: 

72 words make 1 folio or sheet of common law. 
90 words make 1 folio in chancery. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



6371 



CIRCULAB MEA81TBE 

Circular measure is used in meas- 
uring arcs of circles, and angles, and 
in estimating latitude and longitude. 
It is also called angular measure. 

The denominations are seconds ("), 
minutes ('), degrees (°), signs (s), 
and circumferences (cir.). 

Tablb 

60 seconds = 1 minute ' 

60 minutea = 1 degree • 

360 degrees = 1 circumference cir. 

Cir. • ' 

1 = 360= 21 ,600 = 1 ,296,000. 
Scale:360, 60, 60. 

Circular measure is used by sur- 
veyors in surveying land; by naviga- 
tors in determining latitude and lon- 
gitude at sea; and by astronomers in 
measuring the motion of the heavenly 
bodies, and in computing difference 
in time. 

The curved line which bounds a 
circle is its circumference. Any por- 
tion of a circumference is an arc. 
Every circimiference may be divided 
into 360 equal parts, called degrees. 

One half of a circumference is a 
semicircumference ; one fourth, a 
quadrant; one sixth, a sextant; and 
one twelfth, a sign. A semicircum- 
ference contains 180°; a quadrant, 
90°; a sextant, 60°; and a sign, 30°. 

Since every circumference contains 
360 degrees, the length of a degree 
depends upon the size of the circle. 
A degree of the earth's surface at the 
equator contains 69J statute miles, or 
60 geographical miles — a minute of 
space being a geographical or natural 
mUe. 

The size of an angle is the same 
whether the arc included between its 
sides be a portion of a large or small 
circle. Hence the measure of an an- 
gle is definite whatever be the length 
of a degree of the included arc. 

That part of the circumference 
which is included between the lines 
which form the angle is the measure 
of the angle. 

LOITGITtrOE AND TIME 

Longitude is distance east or west 
from a given meridian. It is meas- 



ured by degrees, minutes, and sec- 
onds. Thus, 15° 24' 40" east longi- 
tude denotes a position 15° 34' 40" 
east of the meridian from which lon- 
gitude is reckoned. 

A meridian is an imaginary line 
passing- on the earth's surface from 
pole to pole. 

Each nation selects some meridian 
of longitude as its standard from 
which to reckon, but the two in prin- 
cipal use throughout the English- 
speaking world are that of England 
which passes through Greenwich and 
that of the United States which 
passes through Washington. The 
meridian of Greenwich is most com- 
monly employed as an .international 
standard. 

All meridian lines run north and 
south, and when the rays of the sun 
are vertical at any point of a given 
meridian, it is midday or noon at aU 
places on this meridian which are 
then lighted by the sun. One half of 
every meridian circle is in light and 
the other half in darkness. 

The rotation of the earth on its 
axis gives the unit of time, called a 
day. The day is divided into twenty- 
four equal parts, called hours. Since 
the earth rotates on its axis from 
west to east, the sun appears to re- 
volve around the earth from east to 
west, and its rays move westward at 
the same rate over the earth's sur- 
face. Hence when it is noon, or 
twelve o'clock, at any place, it is past 
noon at all places east of its merid- 
ian, and before noon at all places 
west of its meridian. When, for ex- 
ample, it is noon at Cincinnati, it is 
later than noon at New York, and 
before noon at St. Louis. 

Measurement of Time. — Formerly, 
when traveling was slow, time could 
be adequately measured for practical 
purposes by reference to the sun and 
by means of sundials and hourglasses. 
But the introduction of modern 
means of rapid communication and 
the invention of clocks and watches 
have enormously increased the im- 
portance of the accurate measure- 
ment of time. Hence an outline of 



638 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



the present mode of measuring time 
is of general interest. 

The standards afforded by nature 
are the revolution of the earth about 
the sun, constituting the year; the 
revolution of the moon about the 
earth, the month; and the rotation of 
the earth upon its axis, the day. Of 
these the longest which can be deter- 
mined by direct observation is the 
year. The length of the year may be 
established by observation in two 
ways, which give rise respectively to 
the " solar " and the " sidereal " year. 
The solar year may be defined as the 
mean interval between two returns of 
the sun to the vernal equinox. This 
takes place about March 21st. This 
is the year upon which the change of 
the seasons depends. The sidereal 
year is the mean interval between 
two returns of the sun to the same 
star. This is the true time of the 
earth's revolution, but is slightly lon- 
ger than the solar year. Since, how- 
ever, the change of seasons is what 
marks the length of the year for the 
practical purposes of life, the solar 
year is universally recognized as the 
standard. 

The lunar month or the interval be- 
tween two new moons is the next 
shorter unit of time. It does not, 
however, consist of an even number 
of days, nor is it an even fraction of 
the solar or sidereal year. Hence it 
has given place to an arbitrary di- 
vision of time called the calendar 
month. 

The most accurate and useful meas- 
ure of all is the day, both because of 
the practical importance of the alter- 
nation of day and night, and because, 
so far as can be ascertained, the time 
of the earth's revolution on its axis 
does not change by as much oSy^ 
of a second in a century. As in the 
case of the year, there are two ways 
of determining the duration of the 
day, giving rise respectively to the 
sidereal and the solar days. The 
sidereal day is the interval between 
two passages of a star across the met 
ridian. The solar day is the interval 
between two passages of the sim over 



the meridian. Hence astronomers 
have set aside the use of the sidereal 
year and sidereal day, and the lunar 
month and year, as standards, and 
have based the measurement of time 
for practical purposes on the solar 
day and year, which are determined 
by the passage of the sun over the 
meridian. 

Accepting this as the basis of the 
measurement of time, it remains to 
distinguish between " apparent solar 
time," "mean solar time," "local 
time," and " standard time," of which 
the first is determined by the order 
of nature and the rest by agreement 
among authorities for the conven- 
ience of civilization. 

Apparent solar time is, to speak 
exactly, the moment at which the me- 
ridian of any place passes under the 
sun as the earth revolves. On ac- 
count of the facts that the path of 
the earth about the sun is an ellipse, 
that the earth is accordingly farther 
from the sun at certain seasons of the 
year than others, and hence that it 
travels faster at one time than an- 
other (and for other reasons) the in- 
terval between two passages of the 
sun over the meridian at a given 
place, i. c, a solar day varies slightly 
from day to day. Hence, as a mat- 
ter of convenience, an average is 
struck. 

Mean solar time, as this average is 
called, is determined by the motion 
of an imaginary sun called the " mean 
sun," conceived as moving with perr 
feet uniformity. The hours as thus 
determined are those measured by an 
accurate timepiece. Hence apparent 
solar time is set aside and mean solar 
time becomes the universal standard. 

Local time is the mean solar time 
of any place; that is, the moment at 
which the place passes under the 
"mean sun" as the earth revolves. 
This moment is called noon. The sun 
at noon passes around the earth at 
the rate of four minutes for each de- 
gree of longitude. It takes about 
three hours to pass from New York 
to San Francisco. Hence at noon in 
New York it is later than noon on 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



639 



the side toward London, east; and 
earlier on tiie side toward San Fran- 
cisco, west. 

After tiie introduction of railroads 
and steamships the use of local time 
became a source of great confusion. 
The traveler's watch would vary from 
the local time four minutes for every 
degree of longitude traversed with 
the added modification caused by the 
time occupied in the journey. Prior 
to the year 1883 each railway system 
adopted its own standard of local 
time. Hence the traveler could not 
determine the time of the arrival of 
trains without adjusting his watch to 
the local time of each railway system 
he patronized. 

Standard Time. — The introduction 
of standard time in 1883 was in- 
tended to lessen this confusion. It is 
based upon the selection of certain 
meridians, the mean solar local time 
of which differs by exactly one hour 




Map of Standard Time. 

or multiples of one hour, and the 
agreement among railway authorities 
and others to adopt the local time of 
these meridians as a standard for in- 
tervening sections. The first of these 
meridians passes through Philadel- 
phia, the second near New Orleans, 
St. Louis, and Davenport, the third 
near Denver, the fourth near Sacra- 
mento and Stockton. The moment 
that the sun crosses these meridians 
is taken for noon in all places not 
more than half an hour distant from 
it either east or west. Hence these 
meridians give rise to four belts gov- 
erned by four different standards 
of time; namely, Eastern, Central, 



Mountain, and Pacific time, respect- 
ively. The lines dividing these are 
approximately halfway between the 
meridians of Philadelphia, St. Louis, 
Denver, and Sacramento, respectively. 
In each of these belts railway time 
is uniform, and this is practically 
adopted by the entire population. 
The traveler in passing from one belt 
to another merely changes his watch 
one hour to conform to the local 
time. The division into minutes re- 
mains unaltered. 

In practice the lines adopted for 
the demarcation of the time belts are 
not true meridians but conform to 
the location of centers of population 
and other local conditions. The first 
section. Eastern time, includes all the 
territory between the Atlantic Coast 
and a broken line drawn from De- 
troit to Charleston, S. C; which is 
the most southern point) The second 
section. Central time, includes the 
territory between this eastern line 
and a broken line running from Bis- 
marck, N. D., to the mouth of the 
Rio Grande. The third section. 
Mountain time, includes the territory 
between this central line and a line 
representing nearly the western bor- 
ders of Idaho, Utah, and Arizona. 
The fourth section. Pacific time, runs 
thence to the Pacific Coast. Standard 
time is uniform inside each of these 
sections and the time of each section 
differs from that next to it by exactly 
one hour. Thus, at 13 noon in New 
York City, Eastern time, at Chicago, 
Central time, it is 11 a.m.; at Denver, 
Mountain time, 10 a.m.; at San Fran- 
cisco, Pacific time, 9 a.m. 

Standard time at Boston is 16 min- 
utes earlier than mean solar local 
time; at New York, 4 minutes ear- 
lier; at Washington, 8 minutes faster; 
at Charleston, 19 minutes faster; at 
Detroit, 28 minutes slower; at Kan- 
sas City, 18 minutes faster; at Chi- 
cago, 10 minutes slower; at St. Louis, 
1 minute faster; at Salt Lake City, 
38 minutes faster; at San Francisco, 
10 minutes faster. 

This diff'erence between standard 
arid mean solar local time causes 



640 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



some inconvenience. At some points, 
simrise, noon, or sunset may vary 
from standard time as much as half 
an hour. The variation, however, 
cannot be greater than this, and in 
some localities is very slight. This 
difference may affect such matters as 
the hour for meals and the time given 
in the almanac (which is based on 
mean solar local time) as the hour of 
sunrise or sunset. Proper adjust- 
ments can be made, however, by esti- 
mating the difference in time be- 
tween the meridian of the place and 
the standard meridian at the rate 
of four minutes to each degree of 
longitude. Standard time is now in 
use practically throughout the civil- 
ized world. The difference in time 
between two places can be easily de- 
termined by observing on a map their 
distance apart in degrees of longitude 
and allowing four minutes to each 
degree based on the following calcu- 
lation: 

1440 minutes 1 day, or 

revolution of the earth. 
1 revolution of the earth is 360 degrees. 
Therefore, 1 degree 4 minutes. 

The following is a table of the 
standard for the measurement of 
time: 

60 seconds \ 1 minute. 

60 minutes 1 hour. 

24 hours 1 day. 

7 days 1 week. 

4 weeks 1 lunar month. 

28 days 1 lunar month. 

30 days (in computing inter- 
est) 1 month. 

28, 29, 30, or 31 days 1 oal. month. 

12 calendar months 1 year. 

13 lun. mo., 1 day, 6 hours. ... 1 Julian year. 

365 days 1 com. year. 

366 days 1 leap year. 

365i days 1 Juhan year. 

62 weeks and 1 day (12 cal. 

mo.) 1 year. 

365 d., 5h., 48 m., 49 s 1 solar year. 

365 d., 6 h., 9 m., 12 s 1 sidereal year. 

100 solar years 1 century. 

The Calendar. — The following jin- 
gle will be found convenient to recall 
the variations in the calendar months: 

Thirty days hath September, 

April, June, and November; 
All the rest have thirty-one 
Except the second month alone 

Which has but twenty-eight, in fine. 

Til leap year ^ves it twenty-nine. 



The common year has 365 days, or 
S2 weeks and 1 day; the leap year 
366 days. 

The length of the solar year 1880 
was 365 da., 5 hr., 48 m., 47J sec, 
which is nearly one quarter of a day 
longer than the common year. On 
the supposition that 365J days was 
the true solar year, Julius Cffisar in- 
troduced a calendar in which every 
year exactly divisible by 4 (every 
fourth year) included 366 days, 
called leap year. The error of the 
Julian calendar amounts to 3.114S 
days in four centuries. To correct 
the error. Pope Gregory XIII, in 
1582, modified the Julian calendar by 
making three of the centennial years 
in every four centuries common years 
and one a leap year. Hence every 
year that is divisible by 4 and is not 
a centennial year is a leap year, and 
every centennial year that is divis- 
able by 400 is a leap year. The year 
1900 wiU be a common year, and the 
year 2000 a leap year. 

Pendulum.-r-Any weight suspended 
so as to swing freely under the action 
of gravity is called a pendulum. Sci- 
entific investigation of the swing of 
the pendulum has proved that the 
time of the vibration of the pendu- 
lum is in proportion to the square 
root of its length; that is, a pendu- 
lum which vibrates once in a second 
must be four times as long as one 
which vibrates once in half a second, 
sixteen times as long as one which vi- 
brates in one fourth of a second, and 
so on. It has been further shown 
that the time of the vibration is inde- 
pendent of the length of the arc, or 
the distance through which the pen- 
dulum swings, so long as the arc is 
comparatively small. This is what 
gave rise to the application of the 
pendulum to the regulation of time- 
pieces. 

The attraction of gravity which 
causes the vibration of the pendulum 
depends upon the distance of a body 
from the center of the earth. The 
earth being flattened at the poles, 
this distance is greater at the equator 
and less at the poles. Hence the 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



641 



Fahren- 


Centi- 


heit 


GRADB 


Water 
Boa3 212'> - 


- 100° 


Blood 
Heat 98° - 


_ 


Water 
Freezes 32°- 
0°- 


- 0° 



same pendulum will vibrate faster at 
the poles than at the equator. Hence 
the pendulum is used to determine 
the force of gravity at various points 
on the earth's surface. And the 
length of a pendulum vibrating sec- 
onds under stated conditions is now 
the accepted standard of length in 
Great Britain and the United States. 
In the vicinity of New York a pendu- 
lum vibrating once in a second is 
39-^ inches long. 

To shorten the pendulum of a clock 
makes it run faster; to lengthen it 
makes it run slower. 

Measuring Temperature. — ^We com- 
monly use a thermometer known as 
Fahrenheit's. 



In scientific work the 
centigrade (a word 
meaning " 100 degrees") 
is used. Because there 
are just 100° between 
the freezing and boiling 
points of water, on the 
centigrade thermometer, 
and the freezing point 
is at 0°, that would be 
easier than the Fahren- 
heit to work with if we 
were used to it. 



Specific Gravity. — The specific 
gravity of any substance is the num- 
ber of times its weight contains the 
weight of an equal volume of water. 
Since the weight of a cubic foot of 
water at its greatest density is 1,000 
oz., or 62J lb., the weight of a cubic 
foot of any substance is found by 
multiplying 1,000 oz. avoirdupois by 
its specific gravity. 

UEASTTBES OF VALTr£ 

The common measure of value is 
money. 

It is also called currency, and is of 
two kinds, viz.: coin and paper 
money. 

Stamped pieces of metal having a 
value fixed by law are coin and 
specie. 

Notes and bills issued by the Gov- 
ernment and banks, and authorized 
to be used as money, are paper 
money. 

AU money which, if offered, legally 
satisfy a debt are a legal tender. 



UNITED STATES MONEY 

The unit of United States or Fed- 
eral money is the dollar. 

Table. 

10 mills (m.) = 1 cent ot. 

10 cents = 1 dime d. 

10 dimes =1 dollar S 

10 dollars = 1 eagle e. 

Scale: decimal. 

The dollar mark is probably a com- 
bination of U. S., the Initials of the 
words " United States." 

The coins of the United States are: 

Gold. — The double eagle, eagle, half 
eagle, quarter eagle, and one-dollar 
piece. 

Silver. — The dollar, half dollar, 
quarter dollar, and ten-cent piece. 

Nickel. — The five-cent piece. 

Bronze. — The one-cent piece. 

There are various other coins of 
the United States in circulation, but 
they are not coined now. The de- 
nominations dimes and eagles are 
rarely used, the dimes being regard- 
ed as cents and the eagles as dol- 
lars. 

The unit of value is the dollar. Its 
standard weight in gold is 35.8 gr. 
The standard purity of the gold and 
silver coins is by weight, 9 parts of 
pure metal and 1 part alloy. The 
aUoy of gold coins consists of silver 
and copper; the silver, by law, is not 
to exceed one tenth of the alloy. The 
alloy of silver coins is pure copper. 
The nickel coins consist of one fourth 
nickel and three fourths copper. The 
cent is composed of 95 parts copper 
and 5 parts tin and zinc. 

AU gold coins are a legal tender 
for any amount; silver coins less than 
$1 are legal tender for any amount 
not exceeding $10 in any one pay- 
ment; nickel and bronze coins, for 
any amount not exceeding 25 cents in 
any one payment. 

Aliquot Parts of a Dollar. — ^When 
the price of an article is an aliquot 
part of a dollar, the cost of any num- 
ber of such articles may be found 
more readily than by multiplying. 

The aliquot parts of a dollar com- 
monly used in business are: 



642 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



S0ots.= 4 of $1 12icts.= i ot$l our plain English, 10, 100, etc., it is 

20 " = 4 "' 1 33* " =t " i ^^^ *° ^""Ploy capital letters for the 

10 " =^ "1 lel " = I " 1 multiples and small letters for the 

subdivisions, to avoid ambiguities in 

The following aliquot parts of a abbreviations: 1 dekameter or 10 me- 

doUar are also used: ters = l dm.; 1 decimeter or t";, of a 

25 ots. = J of 50 cts. 16} cts. = i of 33| cts. meter = 1 dm. 

12* " -i " 50 " 12i " =J ;; 25 ;; The meter, unit of length, is 

6i " =i " 50 " 6i " =i"25 nearly the ten-miUionth part of a 

quadrant of a meridian, of the dis- 

EHGLISH OB STEELING MONEY tance between equator and pole. The 

English money is the currency of International Standard Meter is. 

Great Britain. The unit is the pound practically, nothing else but a length 

or sovereign. deiined by the distance between two 

Table. lines on a platinum-iridium bar at 0° 

12 pTncl"^ ""'^ : 1 Sng: : : ; : : ". : : ; : : :t centigrade, deposited at the Intema- 

,„..;„; , J 1 pound, or \ „ tional Bureau of Weights and Meas- 

20 »hm.ngs.^ . .^. . = j 1 |,,,,i^ ^ £ ^^^^^ p^^.^^ p^^^^^_ 

1=26=240=960. The liter, unit of capacity, is de- 
Soale: 20, 12, 4. ^.j^g^ j^pj^ tj,g weight of one kilo- 
Farthings are commonly written as S'^^'^ P""'^ ^^t" ^\ Sre^^f density, 
fractions of a penny. Thus, 7 pence ^ ^^^^e whose edge is one tenth of a 
3 farthings is written 7|d.; 5 pence 1 «>«*!' ^""J' th«efore, the one-thou- 
farthing, 5id. «^°f ^ P^'"* °* ^.'^f ™ ^°^- . 

The value of £1 or sovereign is P"^ gram, unit of weight is a cube 

$4.866S in American gold, and the °{ P^'^ water at greatest density, 

other coins have their proportionate ^^°^ ^^/^ is one hundredth of a me- 

values ' ^ ' therefore, the one-thou- 

The"coins of Great Britain in gen- sandth part of a kilogram, and the 

eral use are- one-miUionth part of a metric ton. 

Gold—Sovereign, half sovereign, ,,^^^, ^Z^^^^/*^"* "^f /^^aW *" 

and guinea, which is equal to 21 sWl- *« United States on July 28. 1866, 

linff"! when Congress enacted as follows: 

»i.,.. Ti,. „ /^^..oi t-^ c " The tables in the schedule hereto 

Sliver. — Ihe crown (equal to 5 , , ,, , . , . ., 

shUlings). half crown, florin (equal to annexed shaU be recogmzed m the 

3 shillings). shiUing, sixpenny and construction of contracts, and m aU 

threepenny pieces. i^S^ proceedings, as establishmg, m 

n.__„_ -o. „ , „ A i,„i*„. terms of the weights and measures 

Copper. — Penny and halfpenny. . . ^ -4. j et 4. 1.1. 

now in use in the United States, the 

equivalents of the weights and meas- 
METRIC SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND ures expressed therein in terms of the 
MEASTJEES metric system, and the tables may 
The metric system has been lawfully be used for computing, de- 
adopted by Mexico, Brazil, Chili, termining, and expressing in custom- 
Peru, etc., and except Russia and ary weights and measures the weights 
Great Britain, where it is permissive, and measures of the metric system." 
by all European nations. Various Approximate Equivalents. — A me- 
names of the preceding systems are, ter is about a yard; a kilo is about 3 
however, frequenUy used: In Ger- pounds; a liter is about a quart; a 
many, J kilogram = 1 pound; in centimeter is about J inch; a metric 
Switzerland, ^ of a meter = 1 foot, ton is about same as a ton ; a kilome- 
etc. If the first letters of the pre- ter is about § mile; a cubic centime- 
fixes deka, hecto, kilo, myria, from ter is about a thimbleful; a nickel 
the Greek, and deci, centi, mili, from weighs about 5 grams. 
the Latin, are used in preference to The following are the tables: 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



643 



Mbabukes of Length 



Metric Denominations and Values. 



Bquivalents in Denominations in Use. 



Myriameter . 
i^ometer. . . 
Hectometer. 
Dekameter. . 

Meter 

Decimeter... 
Centimeter.. 
Millimeter... 



10,000 meters. 

1,000 meters. 

100 meters. 

10 meters. 

1 meter. 

^ of a meter. 

T^o of a meter. 

iiRiv of a meter. 



6.2137 miles. 

0.62137 mile, or 3,2S0 feet 10 inches. 



328 


feet 1 inch. 


393.7 


inches. 


39.37 


inches. 


3.937 


inches. 


0.3937 


inch. 


0.0394 


inch. 



Measttres of Surface 



Metric Denominations -and Values. 



Hectare 10,000 square meters. 

Are 100 square meters. 

Gentare 1 square meter. 



Equivalents in Denominations in Use. 



2.471 acres. 
119.6 square yards. 
1,550 square inches. 



Measures of Cafacztt 



Metric Denominations anh Values. 


Equivalents in Denominations in Use. 


Names. 


Num- 
ber of 
Liters. 


Cubic Measure. 


Dry Measure. 


Liquid or Wine 
Measure. 




1,000 

100 

10 

1 

lo6ti 






264.17 gallons. 


Hectoliter . 


^n of a cubic meter 

10 cubic decimeters. . . 

1 cubic decimeter 

]^ of a cu. decimeter. . 
10 cubic centimeters... 
1 cubic centimeter 


2 bush, and 3.35 pecks 

9.08 quarts 


26.417 gallons. 
2.6417 gallons. 






1.0567 quarts. 


Deciliter 

CentiUter 

Milliliter 


6.1022 cubic inches 


0.845 gill. 











Weights 



Metkic Denominations and Values. 



EoniTALENTS IN DE- 
NOMINATIONS IN Use. 



Names. 



Number 

of 
Grams. 



Weight of What Quantity of Water 
at Maximum Density. 



Avoirdupois Weight. 



Millier or tonneau. . 

Quintal 

Myriagram 

Kilogram or kilo. . . 

Hectogram 

Dekagram 

Gram 

Decigram 

Centigram 

Milligram 



1,000,000 

100,000 

10,000 

1,000 

100 

10 

1 

A 

iJo 

nnj5 



1 cubic meter 

1 hectoliter 

10 liters 

1 liter 

1 deciliter 

10 cubic centimeters 

1 cubic centimeter 

A of a cubic centimeter 

10 cubic millimeters 

1 cubic millimeter 



2204.6 pounds. 

220.46 pounds. 

22.046 pounds. 

2.2046 pounds. 

3 . 5274 ounces. 

0.3627 ounce. 
15.432 grains. 

1.5432 grains. 

0.1543 grain. 

0.0154 grain. 



644 HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 

approximate' equivalents 

A meter is about a yard; a kilo is about 2 pounds; a liter is about a quart; 3 centimeter 
is about i inch; a metric ton is about same as a ton; a kilometer is about } mile; a cubic centi- 
meter is about a tliimbleful; a nickel weighs about 5 grams. 

Fbecise Equivalents. 

1 acre = .40- hectare 4047 

1 bushel = 36 liters 35.24 

1 centimeter = .39 inch 3937 

1 cubic centimeter = •061 cubic inch 0610 

1 cubic foot — .038 cubic meter 0283 

1 cubic inch = 16 cubic centimeterst 16.39 

1 cubic meter = 35 cubic feet 35.31 

1 cubic meter = 1.3 cubic yards 1 .308 

1 cubic yard = .76 cubic meter 7645 

1 foot = 30 centimeters 30.48 

1 gallon = 3.8 Kters 3.785 

1 grain = .065 gram 0648 

1 gram = 15 grains 15.43 

1 hectare = 3.5 acres 2.471 

1 inch =25 millimeters 25.40 

1 kilo = 3.3 pounds 2.205 

1 kilometer = .63 mile 6214 

1 liter = .91 quart (dry) 9081 

1 liter = 1.1 quarts (liquid) 1 .057 

1 meter = 3.3 feet 3.281 

1 mile = 1.6 kilometers 1.609 

1 miUimeter =■ .039 inch 0394 

1 ounce (avoirdupois) =38 grams 28 . 35 

1 ounce (troy) =31 grams 31 . 10 

1 peck = 8.8 Uters 8.809 

Ipint = .47 liter 4732 

1 pound = .45 kilo 4536 

1 quart (dry) = 1.1 liters 1.101 

1 quart (Uquid) = .95 liter 9464 

1 sq. centimeter = .15 sq. inch 1550 

1 sq. foot = .093 sq. meter 0929 

1 sq. inch = 6.5 sq. centimeters 6.452 

1 sq. meter = 1.3 sq. yards 1 . 196 

1 sq. meter = 11 sq. feet 10.76 

1 sq. yard = .84 sq. meter 8361 

1 ton (2,000 lbs.) = .91 metric ton 9072 

1 ton (2,240 lbs.) = 1 metric ton 1.017 

1 ton (metric) = 1.1 ton (2,000 lbs.) 1.102 

1 ton (metric) = .98 ton (2,240 lbs.) 9842 

1 yard = .91 meter 9144 



CHAPTER XXV 

HEALTH HINTS— WHAT TO DO IN EMERGENCY 

George J. Fisher, M.D. 

GENERAL HINTS IN TIME OF ACCIDENT— FIRST AID IN TIME 
OF INJURY— POISONS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES— FAINTING— 
HOW TO TREAT A BRUISE OR SPRAIN— TREATMENT OF 
SPECIAL PARTS— CUTS AND SCRATCHES— POISONED WOUNDS 
—POISON IVY AND POISON OAK— BURNS — BLEEDING— DIS- 
LOCATIONS — FRACTURES — DROWNING — PRONE PRESSURE 
METHOD 



Health Hints. — It is much better 
to prevent disease than to cure it. 
Health depends upon strict adher- 
ence to a few simple rules. Most of 




the sickness of to-day is preventable, 
and is due primarily to carelessness 
in living habits. It is not enough, 
however, simply not to be ill. Many 
people who are not sick, still are not 
well. To really enjoy Ufe, one should 
be at his best and know the thrill of 
abounding health and the joy of well- 
being. Many people never experience 
this, apf" the slightest change in their 



environment makes them uncomfort- 
able; yet they would not say they 
were ill. 

Plenty of fresh air, a sane and 
simple diet and regular exercise, 
combined with a, care-free state of 
mind, are the secrets of a normal, 
healthy life. They are so simple that 
people overlook them. 

Fresh Air. — Sleep with the win- 
dows open, but be protected from the 
direct wind. Night air is not only 
not harmful, but absolutely healthful. 
See to it also that you work under 
conditions of fresh air; it will prove 
a tonic. Bad air depresses all the or- 
gans of the body. Houses, working 
places, offices, hotels, trains, are 
abominably ventilated. Keep on the 
lookout or you wJU be constantly poi- 
soned. Tenting out in the summer 
time or sleeping on a screened porch 
or roof will prove to the tired worker 
who is run down a wonderful restorer. 
Make friends with the fresh air. 

Exercise. — Just this simple but 
important suggestion: Each person 
must have during each day a fair 
amount of rather vigorous exercise 
of the large muscles of the body. By 
this I mean the muscles of the trimk. 
These muscles are closely related to 
the most important organs of the 



645 



646 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



body and the latter depend upon the 
muscles for their vitality. Bending 
the body forward and backward at 
the hips and sideways and twisting 
at the waist are very valuable exer- 
cises. Walking and slow running are 
exceedingly important, especially if 
indulged in until they cause deep 
breathing and perspiration. Of course 
outdoor exercise is best. Hill climb- 
ing is splendid, especially for a weak 
heart, if done with frequent intervals 
of rest. Everyone should have a fa- 
vorite outdoor recreation aside from 
and different from his daily work. 
Baseball and tennis for the vigorous, 
golf and horseback riding and wheel- 
ing for the more mature, are excel- 
lent. A medicine ball used with a va- 
riety of movements is fine for exer- 
cising the large muscles referred to. 
The great increase in the so-called 
organic diseases, namely, diseases of 
the heart, lungs, digestion, and kid- 
neys, reveals the need for systematic 
exercise. People who are inclined to 
obesity, in particular, should select 
some helpful forms of exercise. Exer- 
cise should be taken in such a way as 
to be real fun, not work; it should 
be pleasure and not stern duty. 

Bathing. — The day's work should 
be followed by a short, refreshing 
bath. Nothing will prove so cheering 
as this. When depressed or irritable, 
a bath will oftentimes drive dull care 
away. People with weak hearts must 
be cautioned in using very cold water, 
as it is quite a shock to the nervous 
system. The average person, how- 
ever, will find a quick, cool sponge 
bath decidedly stimulating. Many 
prefer it on arising in the morning. 
If one's work causes the skin to be 
moist during the day, it will be more 
refreshing to take it at the close of 
the day's work, possibly, and best 
before the evening meal, allowing 
some time between. 

Returning for the moment to the 
subject of exercise, may I hold out 
one word of warning? Housewives 
and men on farms are particularly 
liable when alone without help near 
by to often lift an object or move it 



which in the act demands great ef- 
fort. This is exceedingly dangerous, 
as in efforts of strain the blood pres- 
sure increases and harm may result. 
Don't attempt to lift or move any 
object requiring great effort. 

Diet. — ^AVhat one eats is closely re- 
lated to how one feels. Most people 
undoubtedly eat too much. This is 
true particularly of people who work 
indoors and do not exercise much. 
Such people should eat meat but 
once a day, as meat is only required 
in quantities by persons who work 
vigorously with their muscles. I do 
not believe people should be faddists 
in reference to eating. To eat well- 
cooked foods, plenty of vegetables, 
liberally of fruits and cereals and 
sparingly of meat and pastries, all 
well masticated when eaten, is the 
wisest course. It is foolish to be too 
fanciful in the choice of foods and to 
punish oneself in eating raw foods 
and unpalatable mixtures. 

Just a simple word of counsel as to 
what not to eat: Any food which is 
tasted an hour or more after eating is 
being digested with difficulty. This 
will differ as to effects in different 
people. Such foods should be elimi- 
nated. Some people find radishes, 
onions, cucumbers, and sausage very 
difficult of digestion, while others 
thrive upon them. The latter can eat 
them with impunity, while the former 
must do without them, or uncom- 
fortable and even serious results will 
follow. Salads and highly seasoned 
dressings should be eaten with cau- 
tion. 

Fatigue. — This is a day when men 
and women are constantly overwork- 
ing. Some housewives and many busi- 
ness men never know when to stop. 
Consequently, they constantly over- 
work and never get fully rested. They 
are tired and often don't know it. 
They wonder why they are peevish 
and irritable. The truth is their 
blood is filled with fatigue products, 
their nerves are tired and insensible. 
Nothing but complete rest will help. 
Under such physical conditions a 
housewife cannot be a good mother 



HEALTH HINTS— WHAT TO DO IN EMEEGENCY 647 



nor a man a good father. Working 
habits must be adjusted so as to per- 
mit of rest, or living becomes miser- 
able. The housewife should learn to 
regulate her working hours just as 
workingmen do, or health will pay 
the penalty. 

A further and final word in refer- 
ence to health: Consult a doctor fre- 
quently. Many people call the doc- 
tor as a last resort. This is wrong, 
and many a serious illness results 
which otherwise might have been pre- 
vented. The eyes, teeth, and throat 
should be examined occasionally, es- 
pecially when they are sensitive, as 
diseases of these are peculiarly re- 
lated to the depression of the whole 
body and affect temperament as 
well. This is particularly true of 
children. 

GENERAL HINTS IN TIUE OF 
ACCIDENT 

Keep cool. Try and keep others 
cool. This is the great need. In 
time of panic, or fire, or accident, 
serious results may be avoided if 
some person is calm enough to take 
charge of things and inspire confi- 
dence. It is well for one to get ac- 
customed to the sight of blood. 
Many cannot, control themselves un- 
der such circumstances. It is a good 
practice to witness an operation oc- 
casionally, or to assist in dressing a 
wound for the purpose of schooling 
oneself. Always send for a surgeon 
immediately in time of accident. In 
doing so, explain as fully as possible 
what the difficulty is, or probably 
may be, so that the physician can 
come prepared. Always see that the 
patient is made comfortable in a 
quiet place. Keep curious people 
away. Loosen collars and corset, es- 
pecially all clothing about the neck 
and chest. If the face of the injured 
or unconscious person is pale, lower 
the head. In sunstroke, or where the 
individual's face is flushed, have the 
head high. Do not do too much. Do 
not touch affected parts with the 
hands. Moisten clothing in removing 



from wounds. In many instances it 
will be best to cut off the clothing to 
prevent further injury. 

How to Dress Wounds. — The first 
essential is to thoroughly cleanse the 
wound and remove all foreign mate- 
rial. This can be done with clean 
water which has been boiled for at 
least ten minutes. The hands and 
arms to the elbow should be cleansed. 
The water can be applied with ster- 
ilized absorbent cotton. After the 
wound is thus cleansed, use a mild 
antiseptic wash. A saturated solu- 
tion of boric acid (not borax) may 
be used. By saturated solution is 
meant as much boric acid as water 
will contain in solution. 

If the wound is a smooth cut, it 
will bleed profusely, as the blood has 
difficulty In securing a hold in order 
to clot. After the wound is cleansed, 
the edges of it can be brought to- 
gether by means of adhesive plaster. 
Where this cannot be done, a surgeon 
will be required to stitch the edges 
together. 

If the head be injured, the patient 
should lie down with the head resting 
upon a pillow or cushion covered 
with a clean towel, taking care that 
the injured part be kept from con- 
tact with surrounding articles. 

If the arm be injured, it should, as 
a rule, be brought across in front of 
the chest and supported in a sling. 

If the lower limb be wounded, it 
may be supported in a comfortable 
position by resting upon a cushion or 
blanket. 

In wounds of the chest, the head 
and shoulders should be raised by 
one or more pillows until the patient 
is able to breathe comfortably. 

If the abdomen be wounded, the 
patient should be made lie down, 
with his knees drawn up, and turned 
over toward the uninjured side; or 
upon the back if the wound be in 
front. 

Before dressing the wound the 
nails should be thoroughly cleansed 
with a brush and rings removed from 
the fingers. After cleansing the 
hands, do not touch anything not ab- 



648 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



solutely clean. All vessels used should 
be cleansed with boiling water before 
using. 

If the wound is jagged, the dead 
pieces of tissue must be removed and 
extra precaution taken to remove aU 
foreign particles; the latter can be 
removed with pincers. Never close 
up a wound until the bleeding has 
been stopped, as a small artery may 
be ruptured, and this must be con- 
trolled first. If the wound is covered 
with grease or soot or dirt, it can be 
removed by using gauze moistened in 
turpentine or benzine. 

A punctured wound, such as an in- 
jury produced by stepping on a nail 
or from the penetration of the point 
of an ice pick is dangerous, because 
the wound closes and excludes the 
air, thus making the wound favor- 
able to the development of the lock- 
jaw germ. This is all the more likely 
to occur if one steps on a rusty nail 
in the vicinity of a stable, as the 
lockjaw germ, or tetanus germ, is a 
dirt germ and thrives in such lo- 
calities. 

The best treatment for a closed 
wound is to open it and let the air in, 
and keep it thus exposed, as the lock- 
jaw germ cannot thrive in the pres- 
ence of air. Of course the wound 
when thus opened should be cleansed 
the same as any other wound. 

If a needle or splinter has been the 
cause of the wound, see that not a 
particle remains. 

In removing a splinter, see that a 
fair amount of the splinter is ex- 
posed, so that a good hold can be 
got on it by inserting the blade of 
a penknife under it, and press down 
upon the flesh around the top of the 
splinter with the thumb nail and 
draw it out gently. Sometimes it is 
necessary to enlarge the wound some 
to get at the splinter or other object. 
If the splinter is under a linger nail, 
it may be necessary to pare away 
much of the nail in order to expose 
the splinter. 

After wounds are ready for final 
dressing, cover the wound with felted 
cotton, then apply bandages. Fish 



hooks usually have to be pushed 
through the tissues, as they cannot 
he withdrawn. The eyelet of the 
hook will have to be filed or cut off 
to allow it to pass through. 

FIRST AID IN TIME OF INJUET 

The only excuse for acting in time 
of injury is the absence of a physi- 
cian. Always send for a doctor and 
do the necessary things during the in- 
terval of his coming. Of course there 
are occasions when a doctor is not 
available; then, of course, more thor- 
ough treatment and action is neces- 
sary and permissible. 

Before entering into the considera- 
tion of specific treatment of condi- 
tions, it may be wise to say a word or 
two in reference to equipment. It 
will be well to have handy in the 
house, or in camp, or when on a 
tramp, a medicine case containing at 
least the following remedies: 

Whisky. — Whisky of a good qual- 
ity is valuable for many conditions, 
especially in case of snake bite, when 
it is a specific. Care should be used 
in giving it to children. ' 

Tincture of Feppermint is splen- 
did for relieving colic, bowel troubles, 
and is a remedy for vomiting. The 
dose is 10 to 20 drops on sugar. 

Tincture of Ginger is also good 
for similar conditions, and the dose 
is 10 to 40 drops in sweetened water. 

Aromatic Spirits of Ammonia is 
an indispensable remedy to have 
about. It is a strong stimulant as an 
inhalant and can also be adminis- 
tered internally, the dose being 10 to 
30 drops in sweetened water. It is 
efScient in restoring people in a faint- 
ing condition by letting them use it 
as a smelling bottle. 

Ammonia Water is quite a differ- 
ent remedy, and is not for internal 
use. It is good for insect bites of 
any kind. 

Tincture of Arnica is used for 
bruises, wounds, and cuts. Cloths 
wet with it and applied to bruises 
are valuable helps. 

Witch-hazel likewise is helpful as 



HEALTH HINTS— WHAT TO DO IN EMERGENCY 649 



a lotion for sprains, wounds, and* 
contusions. 

Spirits of Camphor is also valuable 
for smelling purposes and for in- 
flammations. The internal dose is 1 
to SO drops on sugar. It is good to 
overcome gas in the bowels. 

Bicarbonate of Soda, namely bak- 
ing soda — not washing soda — ^is a 
good powder for burns and is an 
antidote for acid poisoning of any 
kind. 

Vaseline is a salve which can be 
put to many uses in treating burns, 
wounds, chafing, and scalds. 

Antiseptic Solution. — In addition 
to the above it is very important to 
have a good antiseptic wash with 
which to cleanse wounds of all kinds. 

Carbolic Acid Solution is good in 
the strength of 1 part of carbolic 
acid to 25 of water. 

Corrosive Sublimate is good, but 
there is more danger from poison, as 
it contains mercury. Tablets can be 
secured from druggists which can be 
used in a pint or quart of water, ac- 
cording to the strength. There are 
a number of popular prepared anti- 
septic solutions, such as listerine, 
which are very convenient to have in 
the house for ready use. 

In addition to the above, a few roll 
bandages of various sizes should be 
secured as well as adhesive plaster 
and a good-sized package of steril- 
ized absorbent cotton. In a camp, or 
in places where accidents occur fre- 
quently, this should be supplemented 
by some splints of pliable wood. 
Good, complete first-aid outfits, con- 
taining most of the above, can be se- 
cured from such firms as Johnson & 
Johnson, of New Brunswick, N. J., 
or from the National First Aid to 
the Injured Society of Boston, or 
the New York First Aid Society of 
New York City. 

FOISOKS AND THUIB ANTIDOTES 

In treating this important subject, 
much could be said, but as It might 
prove confusing, I shall try and 
condense the information in the 



smallest possible space and make my 
suggestions very simple and clear. 

In cases of poisoning, one must act 
quickly and keep cool. If the person 
affected is unconscious, an empty bot- 
tle or burns upon the mouth may re- 
veal the cause of poisoning. 

There are several things to be done 
in the treatment of poisoning: (1) 
Eliminate the poison from the stom- 
ach; (2) neutralize the poison by giv- 
ing an antidote; (3) treat the gen- 
eral symptoms produced by the 
poisoning. Get these three things 
clear in the mind in acting. 

The material is eliminated by being 
vomited. Vomiting can be induced 
in the following ways: use mustard 
and warm water, beginning with a 
glassful and repeating if necessary. 
If ipecac is in the house — and it is a 
good thing to have it about — give 
about a teaspoonful of sirup of 
ipecac to a child or a tablespoonful 
to a growli person every few minutes 
until vomiting is induced. Tickling 
the throat by inserting the fore- 
finger in it usually brings quick re- 
sults. In irritating poisons, like car- 
bolic or mercury, it is wise not to 
produce vomiting, owing to the lac- 
erated condition of the walls of the 
stomach. In most instances, how- 
ever, it is wise to Induce vomiting. 
Frequently the poison itself pro- 
duces it. 

Antidotes. — In nearly all cases of 
poisoning, olive oil, if available, can 
be given in large doses, namely, a 
pint or more, as it neutralizes most 
poisons except phosphorus. This can 
be followed by the whites of two 
eggs. When in doubt, use the oil fol- 
lowed by the eggs. 

In giving antidotes, two general 
principles should be observed: name- 
ly, that acids tend to neutralize alka- 
lies and alkalies neutralize acids. 

For poisoning from acids, such as 
muriatic, oxalic, acetic, sulphuric (oil 
of vitriol), nitric, or tartaric, use 
soapsuds, magnesia, limewater, whit- 
ing, plaster scraped from the wall, 
milk, oil, and baking soda. Also by 
vomiting. In feeding the patient, do 



650 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



so by the rectunij as the stomach will 
be sore. 

For poisoning from alkalies, such 
as ammonia, potash, or soda, use 
acids as an antidote, such as vinegar, 
lemon juice, and orange juice, fol- 
lowed by large doses of olive oil, cas- 
tor oil, and emetics. 

Another group of poisons are the 
narcotics. In this class are chloro- 
form, chloral, ether, and the opium 
preparations, such as opium, mor- 
phine, laudanum, paregoric, and 
soothing sirups. Provide plenty of 
fresh air, induce artiiicial breathing, 
apply ammonia to nostrils, give ca- 
thartics and stimulants, such as cof- 
fee, brandy, and strychnine. Compel 
the patient to move about. If uncon- 
scious, keep head low. 

The following poisons are men- 
tioned specifically with their treat- 
ment: 

Carbolic Acid and Creosote. — Use 
powdered chalk, Epsom salts, white 
of egg, milk, glycerin, and oil. Empty 
the stomach. 

Alcohol (Treatment). — Keep the 
patient active by pinching, slapping 
with wet towel, or hot and cold 
douches to head and spine; give 
plenty of strong coffee; inhale am- 
monia cautiously, and use artificial 
respiration if unconscious. 

Poisonous Mushrooms (Toad- 
stools). — Give emetics, castor oil, 
stimulants, and apply heat. Use same 
treatment for poisoning caused by 
eating mussels or fish. 

Belladonna (Deadly Nightshade). 
— This drug is contained in cough 
mixtures, liniments, ointments, and 
plasters. Its active principle, atropine, 
is used in eye ointments and washes. 

Treatment. — Give emetics, stimu- 
lants, apply warmth to extremities 
and mustard plaster to feet. If in- 
sensible, use artificial respiration. 

Foxglove (Digitalis). — Give emet- 
ics, strong tea, apply mustard plaster 
over the heart and calves of the legs, 
and give stimulants. 

Phosphorus. — Poisoning frequently 
occurs as the result of sucking or 
swallowing the heads of matches. 



Treatment. — Give emetics, followed 
by magnesiei, white of egg, and olive 
oU. 

Zinc. — Bicarbonate of soda (bak- 
ing powder) in water, milk, eggs, 
strong tea, or warm drinks. 

Tartar Emetic (Antimony or Stib- 
ium). — Give warm water freely, and 
stimulants, strong tea, or coffee. Ap- 
ply heat. 

Corrosive Sublimate (Bichloride 
of Mercury). — This substance is used 
in solution and tablet form for disin- 
fection as a surgical antiseptic, etc. 
It is a highly active and dangerous 
poison. 

Treatment. — If seen immediately 
after swallowing, give an emetic; also 
at once abundant doses of white of 
egg, milk, mucilage; or mix up an 
arrowroot gruel, barley water, or 
ilour and water, and give all that the 
patient will swallow. 

lead (Red Lead, Sugar Lead, 
White Lead, Paints). — These poisons 
cause cramps, paralysis, convulsions, 
giddiness, stupor. 

Cause vomiting, give large doses of 
Epsom or Glauber salts, apply mus- 
tard plaster to extremities, and give 
stimulating drinks. In acute attacks 
of lead colic the same treatment may 
be pursued, except to omit the vom- 
iting. 

Prussio Acid, a violent poison, is 
sometimes taken by children in eat- 
ing the pits of stone fruits or bitter 
almonds, which contain it. The anti- 
dote is to empty the stomach by an 
emetic and give water of ammonia. 
Apply cold water all over the body, 
followed by warm-hand friction. Ap- 
ply a bottle of smelling salts to the 
nose, dash cold water on the face, 
and give stimulants, as whisky, etc. 

Vegetable Poisons. — Known or un- 
known herbs such as hellebore, bitter- 
sweet, poke berries, hemlock, James- 
town weed, tobacco, etc. The most 
of these cause vomiting, intoxication, 
stupor, etc. It is a safe rule to cause 
vomiting, give warm drinks, and 
stimulants. 

Iodine or lodofonn. — Give freely 
starch or flour mixed in water, chalk, 



HEALTH HINTS— WHAT TO DO IN EMERGENCY 651 



magnesia, and stimulants, if neces- 
sary. 

Blue Vitriol, Blue Stone {Sulphate 
of Copper). — Copper poisoning, due 
to substances which have been cooked 
in copper vessels. Give large drinks 
of warm water, emetic; raw eggs, 
milk, stimulants. 

Nux Vomica (Strychnine). — Strong 
tea, animal charcoal, inhalations of 
chloroform or ether, artificial respi- 
ration. 

Aconite. — This drug is commonly 
found in liniments and ointments. 
Give emetics; use stimulants, ammo- 
nia, and brandy ; apply warmth to ex- 
tremities; mustard plaster over heart 
and calves of legs. If unconscious, 
use artificial respiration. 

Arsenic. — This is a frequent cause 
of poisoning. It is found in insect 
powders, rat poison, and Paris gteen, 
and is also used in coloring wall pa- 
per and artificial flowers. 

Give emetics promptly; large 
amounts of magnesia, lime scraped 
from the walls or ceilings, castor oil, 
sweet oil, or equal parts of sweet oil 
and limewater, or limewater alone, 
raw eggs, milk, stimulants. 

Dialyzed iron may be obtained at 
nearly every drug store. This is a 
prompt and perfect antidote to ar- 
senic. 

Another class of poisons is known 
as the Irritating Gases — carbonic 
acid, chlorine, nitrous acid, and hy- 
drochloric acid. To overcome the ef- 
fect from these gases provide plenty 
of fresh air, inhalations of ammonia, 
ether, the vapor of hot water, or if 
handy inhale amyl nitrite or nitro- 
glycerin. Produce artificial respira- 
tion if unconscious. 

Note. — Poison ivy, snake bite, 
etc., are treated under " Poisonous 
Wounds." See page 655. 

FAIHTIITG 

Loss of consciousness often causes 
considerable alarm, and, in fact, 
should not be treated as a light mat- 
ter, because it may be a preliminary 
to a grave illness. 



The first thing to discover in the 
case of insensibility is the cause. No- 
tice the surroundings. The condition 
may be due to a fall, fright, loss 
of blood, drunkenness, or poisoning. 
Convulsions would suggest epileptic 
fits, hysteria, or kidney disease. If, 
however, the cause of the injury is 
known, then a systematic examina- 
tion of the body should be made. 
The presence of a wound or bruise 
or bleeding would throw light upon 
the cause. Examine the eyes. If they 
are sensitive to the touch, brain in- 
juries may be eliminated. If the pu- 
pils are contracted, it is indicative of 
opium poisoning, while unequal con- 
traction is a sign of brain lesions. If 
the face be drawn to one side, it 
would suggest paralysis. A bloated 
face or the odor of liquor would be 
the sign of intoxication. 

Treatment. — Lay the patient on his 
back. If the face is white and blood- 
less, have his head lower than his 
body. Let him have plenty of fresh 
air. Loosen the clothing. Apply 
cold water to the face. This in most 
cases will bring a return to conscious- 
ness. Aromatic spirits of ammonia 
is a good thing to use as a smelling 
salts and to give internally when con- 
sciousness returns. 

The above treatment is applicable 
in all cases of simple fainting due to 
weakness, mental emotions, and close, 
warm atmosphere of crowds. 

In the event of fainting from shock 
following an accident, there may be 
more marked symptoms, such as cold- 
ness of the skin, dilatation of the 
pupils, and weak heart action. 

In addition to the above treatment, 
the skin should be rubbed briskly, 
bleeding, if any, controlled, wounds 
dressed, and broken bones bound up. 
Hot-water bottles, flatirons, or plates 
should be applied to the extremities. 
Hot coflFee is a good stimulant. 

The temperament of the injured 
person is an important factor in de- 
termining the amount of shock. Some 
people go into hysterics over a very 
simple thing. I have known people 
to faint at the very sight of blood. 



652 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



One experience comes to my mind of 
a young lady who was the sweetheart 
of a member of a volmiteer regiment. 
He had violated some rule of the 
regiment and was placed in the guard- 
house for twenty-four hours as a 
penalty. The young lady was told of 
the circumstance, and was so over- 
come that she fell in a dead faint. 
She was picked up from the street 
and carried into a store. Seizing a 
glass of water from the counter in 
the store, I soaked a handkerchief in 
it and applied it to her face. She im- 
mediately revived. She seemed com- 
posed for a time, but suddenly she 
seemed overwhelmed with the terrible 
thought that her lover was impris- 
oned behind iron bars unjustly, and 
that she would not be able to see him 
nor hear his familiar voice for twen- 
ty-four long hours. She ran down 
the street toward the armory, but 
fell in a dead faint in the middle of 
the car tracks. I rushed out, and 
dragged her from in front of a rap- 
idly approaching car. Again I ap- 
plied the wet cloth, and she imme- 
diately revived. This time I held on 
to her wrist and gave her a good 
talking to. This proved a very ef- 
fective means of treatment. 

Stunning. — A condition of the 
mind extending from bewilderment 
to insensibility, due to shaking of the 
brain by sudden violence. Concus- 
sion of the brain. Pilcher mentions 
three varieties: 

(1) Slight Stunning. — After a blow 
or fall, the patient is confused and 
pale, and the pulse weak for a few 
moments. Treatment; Rest, lying 
down, and apply wet cloth to head. 

(2) Moderate Stunning. — Patient 
insensible and immovable, skin cold, 
pulse weak, eyes closed, pupils con- 
tracted. May be aroused, but returns 
to unconsciousness. Then comes a 
period of returning consciousness 
and restlessness; vomiting often oc- 
curs on return to consciousness. 
Treatment: Rest, lying down, quiet 
of body. Apply heat to -feet and low- 
er part of body, and cold to head. 

(3) Severe Stunning. — Serious, Pa- 



tient cannot be aroused. Pulse very 
weak and irregular. Skin cold and 
clammy. Recovery is very slow, and 
death often occurs. Liability to ex- 
cessive reaction and complication of 
congestion of the brain. 

No stimulants of any kind are 
to be given where the brain is af- 
fected. 

In all cases of complete shock, such 
as may come from those cases men- 
tioned in this and other articles, and 
in cases of apoplexy and compression 
of brain, the treatment outlined 
above should be pursued. The pa- 
tient must be kept quiet, placed in a 
comfortable position, the head kept 
cool, and the extremities warm. This 
to be done until the physician arrives, 
who should be called immediately. 

Insensibility from Sunstroke. — 
The attack is usually preceded by 
giddiness, weakness, and nausea; eyes 
bloodshot and contracted; skin hot 
and dry; subject unconscious, breath- 
ing quick an^ loud; heart rapid and 
tumultuous. 

Treatment. — Place patient on back 
in a cool place with head raised. The 
chief object is to reduce his excessive 
heat. Remove clothing, pour cold 
water all over the body. Pilcher says 
to hold the vessel four or five feet 
above the patient and pour first on 
the head, then on the chest and abdo- 
men, and then on the extremities, and 
to repeat until conscious. Bags of 
cracked ice may be applied to the 
head and under armpits. The patient 
should be wrapped in cold sheets or 
placed in a tub containing cold water. 
Continue until patient is conscious or 
the heat greatly diminished. Repeat 
if symptoms return. 

In prostration from excessive heat 
— not sunstroke — ^place the patient on 
his back, with his head on a level with 
his body, and loosen clothing. Apply 
heat to the surface of the body and 
extremities. Bathe the face with 
warm water into which a little alco- 
hol or whisky has been poured. In 
prostration from drinking too much 
ice water when overheated, loosen 
clothing, place on back with head 



HEALTH HINTS— WHAT TO DO IN £m£RGENCY 653 



slightly elevated, give hot drinks, 
apply heat to the spine and the ex- 
tremities. Don't give any alcoholic 
stimulants. Tea, coffee, or warm milk 
may be used. 

In exhaustion from heat due to 
hard work and confinement in close, 
hot atmosphere, cover the body with 
blankets and apply heat to the ex- 
tremities. Send for a physician. 

Electricity Accidents. — Proceed as 
follows :,(1) Shut off the current or 
release the injured person from con- 
tact with it. (2) Don't touch the 
person affected or the live wire with 
the bare hands. If rubber shoes and 
gloves can be secured, well and good. 
Stand on a dry board and cover the 
hands with woolen cloths or paper. 
If a tool of any kind is used, it 
should have a wooden handle. 

After shutting off the current, lay 
the patient down, keep him warm, 
and apply artificial respiration. 

Ligbtning Accidents. — To prevent 
accident: (1) Avoid standing under 
trees to escape from the rain during 
a thunder storm, but boldly expose 
yourself to the wet; it will preserve 
you from the lightning. (2) Avoid 
standing close to any metallic bodies, 
as lead pipes or iron railings, etc. 
(3) When indoors during a thunder 
storm, sit or stand as near to the 
middle of the room as convenient. 
Avoid standing at the window or sit- 
ing near the wall. 

HOW TO TEEAT A BETJISE OE 
SFEAIK 

A bruise is a wound under the skin 
and is usually caused by blows, falls, 
squeezes, or pinches. Bruises are 
often referred to as black-and-blue 
spots. The part affected swells, then 
changes color, at first red, then blue, 
fading out to a greenish brown, and, 
lastly, to a dirty jellow. Severe 
cases may be accompanied by symp- 
toms of shock. Where the case is 
severe, treatment should be admin- 
istered by a physician. 

The best treatment, in my judg- 
ment, is the application of hot water 



to the parts. While it is true that 
very cold and hot water act pretty 
much the same, yet my experience in 
the treatment of bruises has led me 
to have greater faith in hot water. 
It relieves the soreness, contracts the 
blood vessels, assists in carrying off 
the collected venous blood, and di- 
minishes the inflammation. 

Just a word about the proper way 
to apply the hot water. Most per- 
sons, as a rule, apply a towel wrung 
out in hot water; when it cools, they 
remove it, leaving the part exposed 
while they are renewing the towel. 
This is not the most effective way, as 
the wound is chilled between appli- 
cations. 

The way to get the best results is 
to have two or three towels in service. 
While one is applied to the wound, 
the other is made ready; the removal 
of the one being followed immedi- 
ately by the application of the other. 
In this way the hot water is kept on 
the bruised parts continuously, giv- 
ing the best results. 

The next step is absolute rest. The 
part should be bandaged in such a 
way that it is kept absolutely quiet. 
Frequent bathing with tincture of 
arnica, camphor, and witch-hazel will 
assist in reducing the swelling and in 
promoting absorption. 

Where the bruise involves a large 
area, or has been severe, the softer 
tissues may be seriously involved, 
and in such cases surgical interfer- 
ence is necessary. 

The above treatment pertains to 
the bruise with which we have to deal 
most frequently. The same treat- 
ment is applicable in most cases of 
sprain, except that bandaging occu- 
pies a more important place. The 
foot should be immersed in a bucket 
of hot water and more hot water 
added from time to time, so that it 
can be kept as hot as can be borne 
for fifteen or twenty minutes, after 
which a firm bandage should be ap- 
plied and the foot elevated. 

In sprains of the wrist, a straight 
piece of wood should be used as a 
splint, covered with cotton or wool 



654 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



to make it soft, and lightly bandaged 
and the arm carried in a sling. 

Treat as other woimds. Do not 
probe for the bullet. Usually there 
is considerable shock accompanying 
the accident. In severe cases apply 
warm blankets and heat to the ex- 
tremities and spine by means of hot 
irons or hot bottles. Hot drinks 
should be given. It seems needless 
to suggest that a surgeon should be 
sent for immediately. 

IBEATMENI OF SPECIAL FABTS 

Rupture of Varicose Veins. — Ele- 
vate the limb, loosen garters, and ap- 
ply bandage below the wound and 
also over It. Blood clots help to stop 
the bleeding and should not be re- 
moved. 

Bleeding of Hand, Wrist, or Arm. 
— Elevate the arm. In arterial bleed- 
ing, make pressure on the inner side 
of the arm, midway between the el- 
bow and the armpit. 

Forearm. — Raise the forearm above 
the head. In addition to the pressure 
on the wound or above it, place a 
hard pad, such as a small bottle or 
stick, in the front of the elbow, then 
bend the forearm at the elbow and 
bandage firmly to the upper arm. 

Fingers. — Pressure may be made 
at the wrist by using a rubber band. 
If a single finger is affected, a band 
on the finger, close to the hand, will 
sufSce. 

Palm of Hand. — A hard, round ob- 
ject, like a billiard ball or a hard 
apple covered with gauze, grasped 
tightly in the hand will prova effect- 
ive in stopping the hemorrhage. The 
hand can be bound down upon the 
ball. 

Armpit. — Pack the armpit with a 
hard substance, such as a rolled or 
knotted towel, and then press the arm 
upon it; or if the latter is severed, 
bind the material tight to parts by 
running a bandage about the body or 
shoulder. Pressure should be made 
upon the artery which lies back of 
the collar bone. 

Thigh and legs. — In bleeding of 



the lower limb, pressure should be 
made on the inner side of the thigh 
near the groin, over the femoral ar- 
tery. This can easily be found. Pres- 
sure can be made by the fingers, elas- 
tic bands, or tourniquet. Remember 
always that such pressure must not 
be kept on too long. 

Bleeding below the knee can also 
be arrested by placing a stick back 
of the knee and doubling the leg 
back upon it tightly, binding it vidth 
a bandage. 

Elevation of the leg assists in over- 
coming the blood flow in all wounds 
of the lower leg. 

Nosebleed. — Packing the nose with 
gauze usually is effective in severe 
cases. If bleeding continues, summon 
a surgeon. 

Internal Bleeding. — Apply iced 
cloths to abdomen. Have the patient 
lie quietly. If faint, lower head. If 
bleeding is from lungs or stomach, 
give lumps of ice and apply iced 
cloths to chest or stomach. In ac- 
cidents, bleeding from tongue or cut 
lips may sometimes deceive one, and 
it may be thought to come from the 
lungs or stomach. The mouth should 
be examined carefully. It seems 
needless to remind one that in inter- 
nal bleeding a surgeon should be sent 
for at once. 

Bleeding of Neck and Face. — 
Bleeding of the neck is very danger- 
ous, as it is near the large trimk blood 
vessels. Pressure with the thumb 
should be made at the base of the 
neck, outside the windpipe and near 
the collar bone. Make the pressure 
against the spine. For bleeding of 
the face, pressure can be made un- 
derneath the lower jawbone. A little 
notch can be found about midway 
between the chin and back part of 
the jaw, on its lower portion, through 
which this artery passes and which 
supplies the face. Pressure on it 
shuts off the supply. 

Bleeding of the Temple can be 
readily suppressed by pressure on 
the temporal artery, which can read- 
ily be seen on the outer side of the 
forehead. 



HEALTH HINTS— WHAT TO DO IN EMERGENCY 655 



Scalp. — Bleeding of the scalp can 
easily be stopped, usually by direct 
pressure upon the bleeding point. 

Chest and Abdomen. — All that can 
be done is to apply direct pressure 
by means of a large supply of gauze, 
holding it there with the hand until 
surgical help comes, or possibly bind- 
ing it on the wound by rimning the 
bandage about the body. 

CVTS AND SCBATCHES 

For ordinary cuts and scratches 
precaution should be taken to wash 
the part with an antiseptic solution. 
It is good to have collodion in the 
house, or handy, and apply to such 
abrasions, thus excluding dirt and 
making a bandage needless. 

FOISOITED WOTTNOS 

Insect Bites. — For mosquito bites, 
stings from gnats, wasps, bees, and 
spiders, ammonia is the best treat- 
ment. Oil may follow, or the parts 
washed in salt water. Baking soda 
dissolved in warm water is also good. 
The sting should be removed. Ben- 
zine is said to be good for bites of 
harvest bugs. Camphor is a good 
preventive of bug and gnat bites. 

Snake Bite. — Act quickly.' When 
bitten by a snake the first thing to 
do is to prevent the poison from get- 
ting into the general circulation. 
This can be done by immediately 
sucking the wound. Precaution must 
be used in seeing that the mouth 
is not sore or the poison swallowed. 
Shut off the circulation from the part 
by bandaging the limb — ^if such it be 
— ^tightly, or if in another part, by 
pressure over the vein. Open the 
woimd with a knife blade and let 
the blood flow freely, and squeeze the 
poison out. Some advise use of a 
cupping glass. Wash the wound with 
an antiseptic. If a caustic can be 
had, burn out the wound with it. 
This can be done also with a hot iron. 
Keep the bandage on several hours, 
and when releasing it do so gradu- 
ally. 



Whisky is recommended as a stim- 
ulant. 

Dog Bite. — The same treatment as 
used for snake bite can be used for 
dog bite. People frequently get very 
much excited over a bite from a dog. 
Hydrophobia is rare. I would advise, 
if the dog shows no signs of being 
mad, that it be not killed, but penned 
up and watched. This will, if the 
dog is normal, relieve the patient and 
his friends from anxiety. Later, 
when the patient's condition is ab- 
solutely known, such measures may 
be taken with the dog as may assure 
the protection of society. In cities 
where antihydrophobia serum is pro- 
vided, this may be used as a preven- 
tive measure. 

All animal and rodent bites should 
receive the same attention as has 
been recommended for dog bites. 

POISON IVY AND POISON OAK 

Sumac, Etc. — ^When poisoned from 
these plants an irritating rash ap- 
pears and is frequently accompanied 
by a painful swelling of the parts 
affected. A strong solution of bak- 
ing soda is good. Zinc ointment is 
also recommended, or in the absence 
of these plain vaseline is good. Sev- 
eral authorities recommend battling 
the parts two or three times a day 
with sweet spirits of niter. 

foreign Bodies in the Nose. — 
Blow the nose hard while holding the 
opposite nostril closed. Excite sneez- 
ing by tickling the nose or by giving 
snuff. Instruct the patient to take a 
full breath and close the mouth, then 
give a sharp blow on the back be- 
tween the shoulders. The best way 
to remove a foreign body is with a 
syringe, but this should be done by 
an experienced physician. 

Foreign Bodies in the Throat.— 
An obstruction can generally be car- 
ried down by swallowing pieces of 
bread or potato slightly masticated, 
or, better still, a raw egg, fresh from 
the shell and with its original con- 
sistency broken as little as possible. 
Slapping on the back sometimes 



656 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



helps. Sometimes the obstruction will 
go down too far to be reached by 
the fingers. In such cases copious 
draughts of water should be swal- 
lowed rapidly, and if this fails to re- 
move it, give mustard water, or any 
other emetic. Should vomiting fail 
to bring up the obstruction, then me- 
chanical means must be tried. Take 
a long spoon, bend it slightly, make 
the patient throw his head well back, 
and push the handle boldly down 
the throat. If it is kept well to 
the back of the throat no harm can 
be done. The same operation may 
more conveniently be performed by 
a bit of sponge attached to a piece 
of whalebone. Occasionally, sub- 
stances will get into such a position 
in the throat as to necessitate a 
surgical operation. 

BUBNS 

Burns are caused by contact with 
fire, the rays of the sun, very hot 
bodies, or chemicals. Pilcher divides 
them into three classes, according to 
their degree of severity: (1) Mere 
painful redness; (2) formation of 
blisters; (3) charring. In severe 
burns there may be considerable de- 
struction of tissue and great shock. 

To treat a burn: first remove the 
clothing by cutting it away with a 
pair of scissors. If it sticks, do not 
pull it off, but flood it with oil. 

If blisters are present, let the water 
out by pricking them with a needle 
after passing it through a flame to 
sterilize it. Take care not to break 
the blisters, so as to avoid exposing 
the tender surface to the air. 

Promptly exclude the air by apply- 
ing a compress wet with water, in 
which is dissolved a liberal amount 
of baking soda. Apply any oil, such 
as olive oil, sweet oil, fresh lard, un- 
salted butter, vaseline, etc. One of 
the best oils to use is a solution of 
equal parts of linseed oil and lime- 
water. 

In the absence of oil, dust boric 
acid over it or apply clay. Cover the 
wound with cotton or some soft ma- 



terial. If the wound is wet, always 
see to it that oil has been used freely 
before using cotton, as when dry the 
latter will stick and reopen' the 
burned surface when an attempt is 
made to remove it. 

Burns caused by acids should be 
thoroughly washed with water, then 
with a solution of baldng soda and 
water, and then treated like an ordi- 
nary burn. 

Burns caused by alkalies, such as 
caustic potash, caustic soda, or am- 
monia, should be washed with vinegar 
or some other dilute acid. 

Treat shock as explained under 
" Fainting." 

Cover severe burns as quickly as 
possible, so as to exclude the air. 
An application shovdd be ready to 
apply immediately. Do not expose 
the wound, as it may prove fatal. If 
burn is extensive, dress but a small 
portion at a time. 

The bicarbonate of soda and oils 
are best applied by dipping cloths 
into them, ointments by spreading on 
cloths and then applying. 

In burns of the mouth or throat, 
apply the oil or white of an egg by 
drinking them. If caused by chemi- 
cals, the mouth and throat should be 
rinsed by the proper antidote — ^vine- 
gar or dilute acid in case of caustic 
soda, potash, ammonia, or lye, and a 
solution of baking soda for acid 
burns. 

In severe burns summon physician 
at once, as there may be considerable 
destruction of tissue and danger of 
great shock. Burns often heal slowly, 
and are frequently attended by fear- 
ful scars and deformity. 

Sunburn is a burn of the first de- 
gree and should be treated as such. 

A person whose clothing is burn- 
ing should be made to lie down — ^if 
necessary, thrown down — as the tend- 
ency of the flames is to rise upward. 
When the patient is lying down the 
flames have less to feed on, and there 
is not so much danger of their reach- 
ing the face or inhaling the fumes. 
The person should be quickly 
wrapped in a shawl or blanket of 



HEALTH HINTS— WHAT TO DO IN EMERGENCY 657 



wool, not cotton, and the fire smoth- 
ered by pressing on the burning part. 

BLEEDING 

To be efficient in stopping a hemor- 
rhage it is necessary to know that 
blood comes from two sources, name- 
ly, arteries and veins. It must also 
be remembered that blood in an ar- 
tery comes from the heart, and that 
blood in a vein is on its way to the 
heart. Thus, in stopping the bleeding 
from an artery, pressure must be 
made between the heart and the 
wound, while in bleeding from a vein 
pressure must be made on the distant 
side of the wound. 

It is not difficult to determine 
whether the bleeding is from an ar- 
tery or a vein, as in an artery the 
blood spurts and pulsates, while 
blood from a vein oozes and flows 
without pulsation in a steady stream. 

Bleeding from an artery, especially 
one of considerable size, is very se- 
rious, and prompt efforts must be 
made to stop it. 

General Kules for Treatment. — 
Send for a physician immediately. 
Have the injured person lie down 
and elevate the wounded part. This 
can be done readily if an arm or leg 
is affected. Remove clothing from 
the affected part — ^it may be neces- 
sary to cut it off. Keep the patient 
as quiet as possible. Apply pressure 
direct upon the bleeding point by 
pressing the finger, covered with 
gauze, upon it. If the bleeding is 
from an artery, make pressure above 
the wound, that is, between it and the 
heart. This can be done with an elas- 
tic band, a pair of elastic suspenders, 
or tightly wound bandages. In se- 
vere cases a tourniquet must be used. 
This can be made by first strapping 
the limb with a bandage, making a 
knot in it, which should be placed at 
a point above the wound directly over 
the artery supplying the bleeding 
point. The artery can be located 
with the index finger, as its pulsa- 
tions can be detected. When the knot 
is made, a loop should be made also 



directly over it, through which a 
small stick can be placed. This c^ 
be twisted, and thus pressure is 
brought to bear upon the artery un- 
til the bleeding ceases. The bleed- 
ing point must be watched in the 
event that the flow may recur. Such 
a tourniquet must not be left on the 
arm or leg for too long a time. In 
minor wounds the bleeding will be ar- 
rested in IS to 20 minutes, when the 
pressure can be reduced. In severe 
cases of bleeding, apply cold by 
means of ice bandages; in ordinary 
bleeding, pressure by means of gauze 
upon the wound is sufficient to 
stop it. 

In excessive bleeding, general treat- 
ment of the patient is needful. The 
patient may faint or become very 
weak. In the latter case heat should 
be applied to the extremities and 
blankets secured. To overcome the 
fainting, see directions for this pur- 
pose. 

After the bleeding has stopped, 
treat as a wound. Apply gauze which 
has been saturated in a mild antisep- 
tic solution, then apply absorbent 
cotton and dress with bandages. Ab- 
solute cleanliness must be observed. 
There are some popular ideas that 
cobwebs, tobacco, and salves are good 
to stop bleeding. They should never 
be used, as they may cause blood poi- 
soning. 

DISLOCATIONS 

In dislocations the patient cannot 
move the limb; there is deformity, 
shortening, and pain. It is usually 
an easy matter to diagnose a disloca- 
tion, whereas it is often very difficult 
to always detect a fracture. 

Treatment. — Send for a physician 
immediately, and while awaiting his 
arrival place the patient in as com- 
fortable a position as possible. Sup- 
port the injured part with pillows or 
bandages, and apply hot towels to 
the part to reduce the pain and in- 
flammation. Dislocations are not so 
serious if reduced immediately before 
inflammation has begun seriously. 



658 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Long delay makes the work of ad- 
justment very hard, and in severe 
cases the swelling must be reduced 
before the dislocation can be treated. 

Yet, while this is true, unskilled 
handling may prove very serious, and 
where it is possible to secure a sur- 
geon the dislocation had better re- 
main untouched until his arrival. 
Where, however, a surgeon cannot be 
secured for several hours, an attempt 
may be made to correct the disloca- 
tion, and a few hints are given how 
to act. 

The most common dislocation, no 
doubt, is that of the fingers. This 
occurs very frequently in games of 
baseball. Often the first joint of the 
finger is thrown out of place and is 
turned upward and backward. The 
first act in the treatment is to grasp 
the tip of the finger firmly. Then in- 
crease slightly the deformity in order 
to loosen the impaction; at the same 
time press the dislocated end into 
place and pull forward firmly but not 
roughly. When reduced, it would be 
wise to use a small stick as a splint 
and bandage the finger, making it ab- 
solutely immovable. Frequent baths 
in water as hot as can be borne will 
help to soothe and heal. 

A very embarrassing dislocation is 
that of the lower jaw. This occurs 
usually in consequence of extreme 
yawning or sometimes in laughing. A 
friend of mine, an intern in a Jew- 
ish hospital, was called several times 
each week to a home for the Jewish, 
to reduce the dislocation of the lower 
jaw of an old Hebrew who had 
the happy faculty of dislocating his 
jaw at very frequent intervals and 
often at very inopportxme times. We 
are surprised that this occurs as fre- 
quently as it does, but really it is still 
more remarkable that it does not oc- 
cur with greater frequency among 
the members of the opposite sex, es- 
pecially at the high-school age. 

Where such an accident occurs the 
victim is found with his mouth wide 
open, with the saliva dripping from 
its corners, and unable to speak dis- 
tinctly. 



To reduce the inflammation, wind 
a handkerchief thickly around both 
thumbs, padding them well, to avoid 
injury by the sudden closing of the 
mouth when reduced. Place the 
thumbs on each side of the lower 
jaw, inside the mouth , and as far 
back as possible. Then press firmly 
downward and backward, when the 
jaw will be felt to slip into place. 
When in place, bandage to hold in 
position. 

FRACTTTBES 

Broken Bones. — ^A layman should 
not attempt to set a bone. For gen- 
eral purposes we recognize two kinds 
of broken bones: First, those which 
do not break through the skin and, 
second, those in which the bones do 
protrude through the skin. 

The tiling to do in a fracture is 
make the injured person comfortable, 
and keep the injured part perfectly 
at rest. Handle the fractured limb 
very carefully, cut off the clothing, 
lay the limb on a splint, placing 
enough cotton or soft material un- 
derneath the injured part to make it 
comfortable, then bandage lightly to 
prevent the edges of the bones from 
moving upon one another. 

In compound fractures, dress the 
wound and cover with gauze, cotton, 
and a bandage. 

In a fractured hand the splint 
should extend from the elbow beyond 
the lingers. Remember to pad the 
splint, having a thick wad of padding 
under the palm of the hand. Place 
the arm in a sling. 

In fracture of a finger a splint 
should be placed against the finger 
on the palmar surface and extended 
from tip of finger to the wrist Pad 
the splint and bind to the finger, and 
support it by placing the arm in a 
sling. 

A broken wrist should have a splint 
extending well up the forearm. 

Broken Forearm. — Usually both 
bones are broken. I would advise 
placing two splints padded evenly 
with plenty of cotton, on the arm 



HEALTH HINTS— WHAT TO DO IN EMERGENCY 659 



from elbow to tips of fingers, then 
bandage and place In sling. 

Upper Ann Fracture. — Place 
splints on each side of the arm and 
bandage to the body. If the fracture 
is high up toward the armpit, place 
a pad of folded lint in the armpit 
and extend imder the arm; then bind 
the upper arm to the side of the chest 
and place the elbow in a sling. 

In fractures of the collar bone or 
shoulder blade, bring the hand up 
across the chest to the opposite shoul- 
der, and bandage the arm to the 
chest. 

In fracture of the ribs, if it is nec- 
essary to move the patient, strap the 
affected side with strips of adhesive 
plaster from the spine to the chest 
bone. 

In fracture of the jaw, put the 
bones in place and bind a bandage 
across the head, relieving the bones of 
all strain. All that can be done in 
fracture of the nose is to pack the 
nose with gauze and stop the bleed- 
ing. 

SBOWirilTO 

(1) Loosen clothing, if any. (2) 
Empty lungs of water by laying the 
body on its stomach and lifting it by 
the, middle so that the head hangs 
down. Jerk the body a few times. 
(3) Pull tongue forward, using hand- 
kerchief, or pin with string, if neces- 
sary. (4) Imitate motion of respira- 
tion by alternately compressing and 
expanding the lower ribs, about twen- 
ty times a minute. Alternately rais- 
ing and lowering the arms from the 
sides up above the head will stimulate 
the action of the lungs. Let it be 
done gently, but persistently. (S) 
Apply warmth and friction to ex- 
tremities. (6) By holding tongue 
forward, closing the nostrils, and 
pressing the "Adam's apple" back 
(so as to close entrance to stomach), 
direct inflation may be tried. Take 
a deep breath and breathe it forcibly 



into the mouth of patient, compress 
the chest to expel the air, and repeat 
the operation. (7) Don't give up I 
People have been saved after hours 




of patient, vigorous effort. (8) When 
breathing begins, get patient into a 
warm bed, give warm drinks, or spir- 
its in teaspoonfuls, fresh air, and 
quiet. 

FBONE FBESSUBE UETHOO 

A new method of producing arti- 
ficial respiration has recently been 
discovered by the noted physiologist. 
Dr. E. A. Shaefer. He calls it the 
" prone pressure method " because 
the patient lies at full length face 
down, and pressure is made with the 
hands of the operator on the back 
over the lower ribs, and then relaxing 
the pressure. This is continued al- 
ternately about twelve times a min- 
ute. Thus the air is forced out and 
sucked in, making a frequent ex- 
change of air in the lungs. The ad- 
vantages mentioned for this method 
are that it is very efBcient, is ex- 
ceedingly simple, can be done by one 
person and without fatigue, and that 
because of the position of the pa- 
tient allows the tongue to fall for- 
ward and the mucus and the water to 
escape from the mouth and thus not 
block up the throat. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO DO 

Isabel Gordon Curtis 

WHAT AN INVALID MAY EAT— WHAT AN INVALID MAY DRINK 
— PROVEN "HOME REMEDIES " — HOT WEATHER CARE OF 
INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 



When a rubber hot-water bag is 
not at hand, a very good substitute 
is a stone bottle with a perfectly 
tight cork. The hottest water can 
be put into it without fear of crack- 
ing, and it will retain heat the great- 
er part of the night. Even a glass 
bottle can be used in an extremity; 
for occasionally, during a severe chill, 
a doctor orders hot applications put 
all around the body, and it is impos- 
sible always to find enough hot-water 
bags to supply the demand. The 
greatest care must be exercised in 
seeing that the corks are perfectly 
tight. If the bottles are too hot, slip 
them into stocking legs, tying them 
at each end. 

Simple as the task of making poul- 
tices is, a certain knack is needed: 
Mix flaxseed with boiling water, stir- 
ring constantly with a palette knife. 
When the mixture is thick enough to 
drop from the knife, lift it from the 
fire, beat well to make it light, and 
spread, a quarter of an inch thick, 
between old soft muslin or surgeon's 
gauze. Turn over the edges, lay it 
on a hot plate, cover with another 
plate, and carry it to the sick room 
as hot as possible. Before laying it 
on the patient, test its temperature 
by holding it against your own cheek. 
If it is too hot for you, it requires 
cooling before applying. When put 
on by degrees, as it were, letting 
down one small piece at a time, it 



will not feel as hot as if put on 
all at once. No poultice should re- 
main on longer than an hour; by that 
time it is not as warm as the body. 
After removing, wipe the skin dry, 
and rub the sore place with oil or 
vaseline. 

Fomentations are not easily ap- 
plied, unless one knows exactly how 
to handle them. In every household 
which has due care for emergencies, 
there ought to be a set of fomenta- 
tion cloths: three large ones of heavy 
blanket flannel, about three quarters 
of a yard square. These are neces- 
sary in cases of pain in the stomach 
or abdomen, or in any extended ache 
in the body. Smaller fomentation 
cloths of a thinner flannel are neces- 
sary in an attack of neuralgia, pain 
in the muscles of the neck, toothache, 
or pains about the head. These cloths 
should be about eight or ten inches 
square. Some a few inches smaller 
are handy for pain in the ears or 
eyes. The way to use a large fomen- 
tation cloth is to carry Into the sick 
room on a tray a kettle of water 
which has been taken off at the boil- 
ing point. Fold the large cloth four 
times. Hold the ends, dipping the 
center of the cloth into the hot water, 
but keeping the ends dry. Then 
twist the flannel into a rope-like roll 
until every drop of moisture is 
squeezed out. It will be very hot, 
still almost dry. Lay this on the ach- 



660 



WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO KNOW 661 



ing part of the body, folding it quite 
smooth, and applying it gradually, 
keeping the hand beneath to save 
from a sudden shock of intense heat. 
Over the fomentation cloth lay a sec- 
ond square of flannel, dry and warm, 
to keep in the heat. If this is band- 
aged loosely around the body, a fo- 
mentation cloth will retain its heat 
for ten or fifteen minutes. Pain may 
sometimes be relieved with one appli- 
cation. If it continues, take the 
other flannel square and wring from 
the water in the same fashion. An 
easy way to wring the smaller cloths 
used about the head is to fold them 
into a square and lay in a potato 
ricer. Dip the ricer into boiling water 
and squeeze the cloth dry, covering it 
with another flannel to keep in the 
heat. After these squares have been 
used, launder them and lay away, 
ready for another emergency. 

A very handy thing to have in the 
sick room is a small nursery refrig- 
erator; but when it cannot be ob- 
tained, you can keep ice with small 
amount of waste by a simple, home- 
made contrivance. Get a large flower- 
pot with a saucer a size or two big- 
ger than the pot. On the saucer set 
a wire trivet. Put the ice on this, 
and over it turn the flowerpot upside 
down, stopping up the hole in the 
bottom with a wad of absorbent cot- 
ton. Cover with a piece of flannel, 
and uncover only when ice is needed. 
The quietest thing to use for an ice 
pick is a strong hat pin; stick it in 
the ice, pick with a small hammer, 
and break off a piece as large as you 
want. 

In the summer when the range fire 
is allowed to go down and there is 
no gas stove, or where the sick room 
is some distance from the kitchen, it 
is a good plan to have some way of 
heating water in the sick room. Do 
not use a stove which burns kerosene 
or gasoline; in spite of utmost care, 
it will exude odors. The use of gas 
is no better, as it consumes oxygen, 
and it is seldom that a pipe can be 
attached tightly enough to prevent 
all odor from the gas. The best ar- 



rangement is an alcohol lamp. If 
that is not in the house, you can man- 
age with a five-o'clock teakettle or a 
chafing dish, which over a hot alcohol 
flame will boil a pint of water in a, 
few minutes. 

The instructions that a doctor lays 
down about medicine, feeding, or any 
sort of treatment, must be carried 
out to the letter. The best plan is to 
write his instructions concisely dur- 
ing every visit. If he orders medi- 
cine to be given every two hours, do 
not trust to memory, but reckon the 
time ahead and write it down — medi- 
cine at ten, twelve, two, four, or 
whatever the case may be. Be per- 
fectly accurate in measuring, using a 
medicine dropper for drugs and the 
average-sized teaspoon for a tea- 
spoonful. 

A small clock is a necessity in the 
sick room; but frequently its ticking 
will irritate a nervous patient. The 
best way to overcome this is to cover 
it with a glass shade. In this way it 
can be seen but not heard. 

Occasionally a doctor orders an 
application of hot spirits. This is a 
process which must be very carefully 
carried out, as the alcohol is liable to 
take fire. The best way to heat it is 
to set the whisky into a cup, put in 
a chafing dish, pour hot water around 
it, then put on the lid. Afterwards 
light the flame of the lamp and let 
the water boil gently for a few min- 
utes. Fold old muslin or gauze into 
the shape required, dip it in boiling 
water, and press dry in a potato 
ricer. Dip it again in hot whisky, 
squeeze as dry as possible, apply it 
as hot as can be borne, and cover 
with a piece of dry flannel. Keep 
the whisky hot as long as it is need- 
ed, and have two bits of muslin, so 
one can be changed while the other is 
on the patient. 

When it is necessary to change a 
nightshirt or nightgown, and the pa- 
tient is too sick to sit up in bed, draw 
it well up under the arms, slip off a 
sleeve at a time, and push it up to- 
ward the neck, getting it over the 
head as deftly as possible. Boll the 



662 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



skirt of the fresh nightdress Into a 
coil till it reaches the sleeve, slip the 
patient's arm into the sleeve before 
lifting the head from the pillow, and 
the nightdress can then be pulled 
down over the neck very quickly, af- 
terwards straightening the skirt. The 
easiest plan in severe sickness is to 
have a nightdress which is open all 
the way down the front. It can be 
easily changed by turning the patient 
on one side and adjusting the night- 
dress from head to foot, then doing 
the same on the other side. 

The patient's hair should be combed 
twice a day at least. If it is a wom- 
an's, part it in the middle and back, 
brush and comb one side at a time, 
and make it into two neat braids. 

When a patient is allowed to sit up 
for the first time, it is a good idea 
to make it half an hour at meal time. 
It is much easier to eat when in a 
comfortable, upright position, as the 
food tray can then be put in a more 
convenient place. Besides, the nov- 
elty of being able to sit up and eat 
is apt to create a new relish for food. 
If it can be obtained, a handy thing 
to have in a sick room is a one-leg 
adjustable table, which can be set 
high or low, as needed, and be used 
for various needs — to serve a meal 
on, to place the basin on, for the pa- 
tient to wash his face and hands, or 
during convalescence to hold a book 
or for a game of solitaire. Although 
it is not quite as handy, a good sub- 
stitute for this useful bit of furniture 
is an ordinary sewing table. Unfold 
two legs, set it on the floor beside 
., the bed, leaving the other legs tucked 
' under. To prevent the weight of 
the table from resting upon the pa- 
, tient's body, put a couple of props 
I under it on the bed. If nothing else 
/ is handy, a few books or wooden 
•' blocks will serve to keep it steady. 

Occasionally, the doctor orders an 
ice compress for the head. To make 
it, fold two large handkerchiefs (to 
be used alternately) so they will not 
be so wide as to come over the eyes 
or wet the hair or pillows, and turn in 
the edges. Put a block of ice with 



a little water about it in a basin, 
wring out a handkerchief and lay it 
on the ice till very cold; then apply, 
keeping one on ice, the other on the 
patient's head. 

Occasionally, a room is situated so 
that it is almost impossible to let the 
air sweep through it as it ought with- 
out blowing on the patient. Ar- 
range a little tent by placing arotmd 
the invalid a low clotheshorse with 
three panels. Over this spread a 
sheet or blanket. If the air is very 
cold, put a hot bottle at the feet and 
cover the lower part of the body with 
extra clothing. In this way there 
will be no danger of the patient 
catching cold. 

The Medicine Closet. — Even in the 
household where every member is 
strong and healthy, there ought to be 
in reserve all sorts of simple medi- 
cines and emergency requirements, 
which are ready at the moment need- 
ed. The medicine closet should be 
high enough to be out of the reach 
of children's hands. If made of 
wood, enamel it white inside and out, 
thus making it very easy to keep 
clean. Put a secure lock on the door 
and keep the key where it can be 
found instantly by anyone in the 
household. Divide the shelves into 
different departments for all sorts of 
needs. In one side store everything 
that is poisonous, or in any way dan- 
gerous. In another, keep rolls of an- 
tiseptic gauze, absorbent cotton, ster- 
ilized linen, bags for poultices, lint, 
surgeon's plaster, finger stalls, rubber 
bandages, and court-plaster. Reserve 
one shelf for such common, everyday 
remedies as calomel, camphor, cas- 
tor oil, cascara sagrada, Epsom 
salts, Jamaica ginger, glycerin, pare- 
goric, ipecac, limewater, magnesia, 
sweet spirits of niter, oil of pepper- 
mint, quinine, rhubarb, senna, sul- 
phonal, flowers of sulphur. Upon 
another keep such drugs as are used 
for cleansing wounds or bruises and 
healing burns, also things to be used 
in cases of emergency, as alcohol, bo- 
Tacic acid, alum, carbolic acid, arnica, 
borax, charcoal, collodion, witch-hazel. 



WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO KNOW 663 



iodoform, turpentine, dioxygen, lis- 
terine, and peroxide. There ought to 
be a corner for poultice and plaster 
necessities. There one would find 
mustard, flaxseed, oil silk, bran, lin- 
seed meal, and antiphlogistine. Here, 
too, have small supplies kept together 
of such things as might have to be 
looked for in different parts of the 
house: carbonate of soda, ammonia, 
whisky and brandy, olive oil, sweet 
oil, camphorated oil, limewater, and 
oil liniment. 

Save every morsel of old linen 
as it comes from the laundry, for 
emergencies. Cut it into strips two 
to three inches wide and join them, 
laying one end upon the other, and 
sewing around the edge. Cut off rav- 
elings, then begin at one end and roll 
up. Make as many of these rolls as 
wiU go into a wide-mouthed fruit j ar. 
Fill the top with absorbent cotton, 
set the jar upon a trivet in a kettle 
of cold water deep enough to have 
the water come nearly to the neck, 
and allow it to come almost to the 
boiling point. The jar vdll need a 
weight laid across the top to hold it 
steady. Keep the water about 180° 
F. for three hours. Lift off the ket- 
tle, and let stand until water becomes 
cold. Then take the jar dut, screw 
on the top tightly, wipe, and put 
away. The linen will then be so per- 
fectly sterilized that in using it there 
will be no possible danger of infect- 
ing a fresh wound. Save old pocket 
handkerchiefs and bits of soft linen 
and lawn for poultice bags, making 
them of different sizes — some as large 
as an eight-inch square, others just 
big enough to poultice a boil. Stitch 
them around three sides on the ma- 
chine, then they can be tied tightly at 
the neck. When they are wanted, fill 
the bag half full of whatever the 
poultice is made of arid press it into 
shape between the palms. When 
poulticing a boil, lay over it first a 
scrap of thin sterilized linen mois- 
tened with olive oil and on top of 
that place the hot poultice. When 
poultices must be applied very hot, 
fill three bags and keep them in the 



oven, where two can be kept as hot 
as possible. After putting the poul- 
tice on; cover with several folds of 
old flannel, which helps to retain the 
heat. In making mustard plasters, 
mix with the white of an egg instead 
of water, as it has all the drawing 
power necessary, yet it never blisters 
the skin. Use half mustard and half 
flour, then cover the top of the plas- 
ter with thin old linen. 

The Sick Boom. — Perfect ventila- 
tion, a sunny exposure, and, if pos- 
sible, a fireplace, which has much to 
do with keeping the air pure, are 
necessary for the sick room; which 
should be kept perfectly neat and 
clean in every detail. A bare fioor 
with a few small rugs, which can be 
taken up and shaken, is very much 
better than a carpet, or even matting. 
A string mop, used noiselessly about 
the floor, -carries away all the dirt 
without raising dust. The bed should 
be placed so the patient can be shut 
off from any draughts, also in a po- 
sition that will not allow the sun or » 
gas light to glare in his eyes. A sin- 
gle bed is far better than a double 
one, for various reasons. The best 
frame is of iron or brass with a 
woven wire or national spring, both 
of which can readily be kept clean 
and free from dust. It ought to be 
set on strong, noiseless casters, so it 
can be moved quietly and easily when- 
ever necessary. The higher the bed 
the better, as it is much easier for a 
nurse to lift a helpless patient when 
not obliged to bend very low. If 
obliged to use a double bed, try to 
have the patient sleep on one side 
during the day, leaving the other side 
comfortable for night. A good hair 
or felt mattress is a necessity, and 
it ought to be in one piece, as steady 
use of a divided mattress is liable to 
make it slip around and become very 
uncomfortable. Cotton sheets are su- 
perior to linen, even in summer, when 
coolness is desired, because cotton is 
not a quick producer of heat, and it 
does not absorb perspiration, as linen 
does, afterwards chilling the body. 
Wool blankets, light or warm, ac- 



664 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



cording to the season of the year, are 
much better than a comfortable. A 
dimity covering or linen sheet is 
more comfortable than a heavy Mar- 
seilles counterpane. The pillows are 
better thin and narrow than thick 
and square. 

The furniture of a sick room should 
be as simple as possible; all heavy 
draperies and upholstered chairs 
being removed. Thin muslin curtains 
add to the cheerfulness, and a dark 
shade, if there are no outside shut- 
ters, is almost a necessity during 
long summer days, when the chamber 
has to be darkened during sleeping 
hours. A small table that is steady 
on its legs and light enough to be 
easily lifted, is a necessary article of 
furniture. Do not allow it, however, 
to get piled up with all sorts of use- 
less things. Keep it covered with a 
clean towel and reserve it for the 
necessary articles which should be 
found there: the thermometer in its 
glass of borax water, a pad and pen- 
cil, which may be needed 3uring the 
doctor's visit, and a movable hand 
screen, to use on occasions when the 
patient wishes to be shaded from the 
light. A small night lamp, which 
burns with a dull glow, is frequently 
a necessity. If sick nursing has to 
be done during cold weather, when 
artificial heat is necessary, try to al- 
leviate the dryness of the atmos- 
phere. This can be done by keeping 
a basin of water upon the radiator, 
or setting before the register a three- 
fold screen of cheese cloth, which 
should be kept constantly wet. A 
light screen is another sick-room ne- 
cessity. The best is one of plain 
bamboo, which does not hold dust, 
the panels made of some washable 
stuff run on rods, so they can be 
quickly changed for laundering. If 
possible, have no plumbing fixtures 
in a sick room, and when it opens 
into a bath room keep the adjoining 
door closed as much as possible. 

An excellent way to admit fresh 
air to a sick room in winter, when a 
window is near the bed, is to open it 
the desired height, then stretch a 



piece of cheese cloth over the open- 
ing and tack it fast. A still more 
convenient way is to put the cheese 
cloth on a small frame that will fit 
into this opening; it can then be re- 
moved at any time. 

A handy way to fumigate the sick 
room is to place a brick in a large 
wash basin, and on this set a baking 
tin containing sulphur. If the sul- 
phur is burned directly in the basin, 
you are liable to crack or break it. 

A valuable remedy for proud flesh, 
an obstinate outgrowth of flesh from 
small sores, consists of alum. A 
lump of alum is placed upon a 
stove just hot enough to enable it 
to turn to dry powder. The pow- 
der placed on the affected part re- 
peatedly and covered with a bandage 
can be relied upon to effect a 
speedy and inexpensive cure. It 
has never failed to cure when even 
the services of a physician were 
vainly resorted to. 

Another good remedy: use pow- 
dered resin. Apply as above; do not 
heat the resin, however. 

If there is an invalid in the family 
who must be fanned, have your 
" handy man " make wooden handles 
for several large palm-leaf fans. 
These should be longer than the stem 
handles, nicely polished, and nearly 
as large as that of a broom. The 
center of the stick is hollowed, then 
the stem of the fan is inserted and 
fastened firmly with glue. These 
handles may be made at home by 
using the hollow end of a window- 
shade roller. The wooden handle, on 
account of its size, does not cramp 
the hand as does the small stem. 

All winter, keep in the medicine 
closet a small jar of turpentine and 
lard, melted together in equal quanti- 
ties. If one shows signs of hoarse- 
ness, give the neck and chest a vig- 
orous rubbing with this homemade 
liniment. 

For jammed fingers, immerse the 
hand in water as hot as can be borne 
and rub vigorously. Do up in sweet 
oil or vaseline. If the bruise is on 
the face, apply a cloth wrung from 



WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO KNOW 665 



hot water, to prevent the blood from 
settling; afterwards apply the oil. 

A cure for eczema is to take yellow 
carrots, scrape them, and fry slowly 
in fresh lard till brown. Drain off 
the lard and melt in it 1 table- 
spoonful of powdered resin. Stir 
well, put in a jar, and when it is cool 
mix in 1 teaspoonful of sulphur. Ap- 
ply each day; the cure will be speedy. 

Castor oil will not be objectionable 
to children if put in a bottle with an 
equal quantity of pure glycerin, heat- 
ed, and shaken well. Each drop of 
oil will be coated with glycerin and 
rendered almost tasteless. 

WHAT AN IHVALID MAY EAT 

Sick-room diets are classified as 
liquid, light, and convalescent. The 
first consists wholly of liquid food, 
and is given in cases of typhoid fever 
and other severe illnesses. In typhoid, 
nothing is allowed for some time ex- 
cept milk, but during the run of 
other diseases gruels, beef tea, and 
broths are prescribed to keep up the 
strength. In fevers, a large number 
of cooling drinks, characterized as 
acid, starchy, or albuminous, are fre- 
quently ordered. Cocoa, hot milk, 
and various malt preparations are 
given at night to produce sleep, while 
occasionally doctors prescribe drinks 
containing rum, sherry, or brandy, 
when the patient is in need of such 
stimulation. 

A " light diet " is the term used for 
the food that is given when a patient 
who has been very sick is beginning 
to improve. It includes almost every- 
thing that is found in the liquid diet, 
and, in addition, soft-boiled eggs, 
soups, broths, raw oysters, toast, 
delicate cream soups, chicken broth, 
soft custard, fruit, gelatines, light 
puddings, and a small amount of 
poultry, game, or tender meat. 

Convalescent diet includes all the 
dishes which have been already 
spoken of, only as the patient grows 
stronger the amount grows a little 
larger day by day, and includes more 
nourishing foods, with a larger va- 



riety. Baked potatoes begin to ap- 
pear on the tray, beefsteak, broiled 
mutton chops, sweetbreads, broiled 
chicken, sponge cake, boiled rice, 
small pieces of broiled fresh fish, a 
slice of tender rare roast beef, and 
ice cream. 

The utmost daintiness is a neces- 
sity when a tray for the sick room is 
being set. Pood that is tempting in 
appearance will often create an ap- 
petite where none existed. You must 
remember that an invalid's recovery 
depends as much upon the diet as 
upon medicine. Therefore, every- 
thing that is taken to the sick room 
must be of the best quality — eggs 
that are really fresh laid, the best of 
butter, the tenderest chicken and 
meats, and milk that is perfectly 
sweet. If the physician orders food 
served every three hours, carry the 
tray into the room on the stroke of 
the hour. He knows when the stom- 
ach requires nutrition, and unless 
you have been sick you can never im- 
derstand what a terrible sinking sen- 
sation the patient experiences when 
the lunch hour is forgotten for even 
fifteen minutes. By making each 
menu just a little different from the 
one before, you can keep your invalid 
guessing. Anticipation creates appe- 
tite. If the tiny meal is delicately 
cooked and daintily served, it will 
probably be eaten with a, relish. 
Never offer a sick person as much as 
is required by a healthy appetite. 

For the most nourishing kind of 
beef tea, choose a piece of meat from 
the lower part of the round. There 
is more juice in a piece of the animal 
which has been toughened by steady 
exercise than in a very tender cut. 
If we wish to keep in the juices, the 
meat should be seared on the outside 
by exposing it to a strong heat, as 
in roasting, broiling, or boiling, but 
in this case the fiber should be re- 
j ected. 

Free from fat, put through the 
finest knife of the meat chopper, and 
cover with a pint of cold water. 
Heat slowly in a double boiler. In 
two hours the juices wiU be drawn 



666 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



out and the fiber left bleached white. 
A square of wet cheese cloth may be 
doubled and spread over a strainer, 
and through this the chopped meat 
be wrung perfectly dry. The juice 
ought to be red. If it cooks long it 
will turn brown; then the albumen, 
which we wish to preserve in liquid 
form, would coagulate, taking from 
the beef tea most of its nutrition. 
If the patient objects to the un- 
cooked look of beef tea, serve in a 
red tumbler which is well heated, be- 
cause the liquid cannot be brought to 
the boiling point. 

Occasionally, a patient is found 
who has such an aversion to milk 
that he will not take it as a liquid. 
Then try to include it in the menu 
in every possible form, that is, if the 
doctor prescribes it. It can be pre- 
pared as junket and clabbered milk; 
in custards, oyster and cream soups, 
eggnog, gruels, milk toast, cocoa, and 
blancmange; in the shape of cream 
served with cereals and soft pud- 
dings, and if chilled foods are al- 
lowed, give ice cream. 

Kumiss, for which a recipe is given 
in another chapter, is very nutritious 
and easily assimilated. In fact, it 
can be retained by a stomach which 
refuses almost every other sort of 
nourishment. It is invaluable in dis- 
eases where the patient is badly ema- 
ciated, and in dyspepsia, chronic 
vomiting, and diarrhea it is especially 
useful. If given the last thing at 
night to anyone suffering from in- 
somnia, it often produces sleep. The 
recipe given in another chapter makes 
enough for a four-days' supply, and 
if it is to be steadily used, it ought 
to be made fresh every three or four 
days, as it will not keep longer. 

Scraped Beef. — Tack down to a 
meat board with a couple of skewers 
i pound of steak cut from the top 
of the round. With a sharp knife 
scrape it and lift off all the meaty 
substance, laying it on a platter. 
When one side is scraped bare, turn 
over and get all that is possible off 
the other side; when finished, there 
will be nothing left but tough fiber. 



Mold the scraped meat with a knife 
into a little cake, and broil it over 
the coals for a few minutes. Season 
with pepper and salt, and serve on 
buttered toast. 

Chicken Broth. — Cut up a small 
fowl, wash thoroughly, and skin it; 
also cut away all the fat possible. 
Pour over it a quart of cold water, 
set it back far enough on the stove 
to take at least half an hour to come 
to a boil. Simmer very gently. When 
the meat begins to get tender, lift it 
out, strip it off the bones, and put 
the carcass back to simmer until all 
the good is out of it. Allow the soup 
to cool, and skim off the fat. Reheat, 
when needed, with a little rice, and 
serve quite hot. A nourishing veal 
soup may be made from a shank of 
veal in the same way. 

Creamed Toast. — 2 slices of bread; 
j cupful of rice milk; J tablespoon- 
ful of butter; 1 teaspoonful of corn- 
starch; dash of salt. 

Toast the bread a delicate brown 
and butter lightly. ■ Scald the milk, 
thicken slightly with cornstarch, sea- 
son with salt, and pour over the toast. 
A very tasty dish of toast may be 
made from J cupful of clam juice, 
taken fresh from steamed clams, and 
poured without thickening over toast. 

Broiled Oysters. — Choose the larg- 
est oysters possible, pour a little 
water over them, and rinse in the 
liquor before lifting out; then drain 
in a napkin till dry. Dip into melted 
butter, then into cracker crumbs 
which have been seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, and lay them between 
the wires of an oyster broiler. Move 
gently over a clear, hot fire until the 
juice begins to run out. Lay them 
on toast and serve hot. 

Creamed Oysters. — I pint of oys- 
ters; 1 tablespoonful of butter; IJ 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch; pepper 
and salt; 1 cupful of thin cream. 

Put the oysters in a bowl, add a 
little water, and rinse carefully, lift- 
ing each one out separately. Dry in a 
napkin. Make the cream, butter, and 
cornstarch into a Smooth sauce, sea- 
son with pepper and salt, and drop 



WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO KNOW 667 



in the oysters. Cook until they begin 
to curl up at the edges, then pour 
over buttered toast. 

Scalloped Oysters (Individual por- 
tion). — i cupful of oysters; J cupful 
of cracker and bread crumbs mixed ; 1 
tablespoonful of butter; pepper and 
salt; 1 tablespoonful of cream; 1 ta- 
blespoonful of strained oyster liquor. 
Wash the oysters and lift them 
from the liquor. Mix the crumbs 
with the melted butter; scatter a. lay- 
er of crumbs over a deep saucer, 
then a layer of oysters; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cover with the 
rest of the crumbs. Pour over the 
cream and oyster liquor. Bake until 
the top is delicately browned. Serve 
hot. 

Broiled Squab. — Singe a squab, 
wash, and wipe dry; then with a 
sharp knife split it down the back 
from the neck to the tail. Lay it 
open and clean the inside; cut 
through at the joints, releasing the 
tendons. Brush over inside and out 
with melted butter, season with pep- 
per and salt, and dust with flour. 
Broil over a hot fire ten minutes. 
Serve on hot buttered toast and gar- 
nish the little dish prettily with pars- 
ley. Quail or any small bird may be 
cooked in the same way. 

Broiled Chickeu. — Prepare a ten- 
der chicken in the same fashion as di- 
rected for squab. Unless it is exceed- 
ingly small, half a portion will be 
enough to cook for an invalid; and if 
the appetite is only equal to very 
dainty meals, the tender little breast 
may be sufficient. Season vrith pep- 
per and salt, brush with melted but- 
ter, put in a greased broiler, and cook 
for twenty minutes, turning the broil- 
er frequently. Keep the flesh side 
longer over the coals than the bony 
portion. When the chicken is deli- 
cately browned, put it in a pan and 
set in a hot oven for ten or twelve 
minutes. Serve hot with toast. 

Creamed Chicken. — J cupful of 
thin cream; J tablespoonful of corn- 
starch; 1 tablespoonful of butter; 
pepper and salt; | cupful of cold 
chicken breast. 



Make a white sauce from the 
cream, cornstarch, butter, and sea- 
soning. Cut the chicken into cubes, 
and heat in the sauce. Serve on but- 
tered toast with a baked potato. The 
meat which is taken from the bones 
when preparing chicken broth may 
be utilized for this dish; or, if de- 
sired, and if the patient can digest 
it, it can be made into a chicken 
s^lad. 

Broiled Sweetbreads. — Before 
sweetbreads are prepared in any 
way, they have to be parboiled. 
When they come from the market, 
put them into ice water and let them 
stand an hour, then drop in boiling 
salted water to which a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice has been added. 
This preserves the white color of the 
sweetbread, and keeps the flesh firm. 
After cooking slowly for twenty min- 
utes, drop them in ice water and pull 
off the skin, fiber, and all waste 
scraps, divide into pieces, and they 
are ready to serve as desired. They 
make a very savory dish for the in- 
valid's tray when broiled. Do not 
separate them when cooking this way, 
but cut in slices, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, brush with melted but- 
ter, and broil a delicate brovra. Sea- 
son with pepper, salt, and lemon 
juice, and, if the doctor allows it, a 
tablespoonful of tomato sauce. 

Sweetbreads are delicious when 
creamed. When served in this way 
they are simply reheated in a white 
sauce, as directed for creamed chick- 
en, and poured over buttered toast. 
If you have a small portion left of 
both chicken and sweetbread, it 
makes a delicious dish blended with 
cream sauce. They are also nice re- 
heated in a cup of strong chicken 
stock with a dash of lemon juice for 
seasoning. 

Golden-rod Eggs. — Prepare a white 
sauce as given in the recipe for 
creamed chicken. Add to it the 
white of a hard-boiled egg, chopped. 
Pour this mixture over a slice of 
toast, and on top scatter the hard- 
boiled yolk rubbed into tiny strings 
through a sieve. Serve very hot. 



668 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Egg Sandwiches. — Boil an egg 
hard and chop fine; add salt, mus- 
tard, a few drops of vinegar, and a 
dash of pepper for seasoning. Sof- 
ten i tablespoonful of butter, beat to 
a cream, and mix the egg with it till 
it is a paste. Butter slices of bread, 
spread on the mixture, and make into 
a sandwich. 

French Chops. — Trim from the 
bones of tender, little lamb chops all 
the fat and skin, leaving nothing but 
the tiny round of meat at the end. 
Brush with butter, dust with pepper 
and salt, and broil over a hot fire. 
Slip little paper frills on the bones, 
and serve with a spoon of green peas. 
A delicious way to cook chops for an 
invalid is to broil them inside paper 
cases. Make an envelope of thick 
glazed note paper and rub it with 
butter. Slip the chop inside. Fold 
the paper so there are two sheets cov- 
ering the meat, put the little case be- 
tween the wires of the broiler and 
move about over a clear, hot fire. If 
it is turned quickly and often, there 
will be no danger of the paper tak- 
ing fire. A chop ought to cook in 
this fashion in five or eight minutes. 
It is constantly basted in the butter 
and its own juices, and is very sweet 
and tender. Turn out onto a hot 
plate, being careful that all the gravy 
is saved. Chicken or birds may be 
cooked in the same fashion. 

Creamed Asparagus. — ^Wash a few 
stalks of asparagus and cut off the 
white part. Divide the tender green 
portion into pieces an inch long. 
Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender. Arrange on a piece of but- 
tered toast, seasoning with pepper 
and salt, and pour a little melted but- 
ter over it. If the invalid desires, a 
few tablespoonfuls of white sauce 
may be used instead of the butter. 

Gum-gluten Biscuits. — 1 cupful of 
self-raising gum gluten; dash of 
salt; 1 tablespoonful of butter; milk. 

Sift the dry ingredients, rub the 
butter into the flour, and add enough 
milk to make a soft dough. Roll it 
out, cut into little biscuits, and bake 
quickl3\ 



Bran Muffins. — 1 cupful of flour; 
2 cupfuls of bran; 1 teaspoonful of 
Eoda; 3 tablespoonfuls of molasses; 4 
tablespoonfuls of butter; IJ cupfuls 
of sour milk; dash of salt. 

Mix the dry ingredients, rub the 
butter between the fingers, add the 
molasses and sour milk; beat hard 
for five minutes. Pour into greased, 
hot pop-over irons, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Raw-beef Sandwiches. — Meat is 
often served in this fashion to a pa- 
tient whose stomach will not retain 
it when cooked. Take about 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls of the raw meat pre- 
pared as described in scraped beef, 
season lightly with pepper and salt, 
spread it between two slices of but- 
tered bread, and toast the outside 
delicately. Be careful not to allow 
the meat to reach the edges of the 
bread or it may nauseate the pa- 
tient. 

Oyster Broth. — 1 pint of oysters; 
1 cupful of cold water. 

Mince the oysters fine, put in cold 
water and let simmer for fifteen min- 
utes over a slow fire; skim, strain, 
and season. 

Clam Broth. — 6 clams; 1 cupful of 
boiling water; 1 teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cracker; 1 teaspoonful of but- 
ter. 

Let clams stand in boiling water 
until the shells open; drain off the 
liquor, add cracker, butter, and sea- 
soning. 

Tapioca. — S tablespoonfuls of Min- 
ute Tapioca; IJ cupfuls of boiling 
water; 1 cupful of cold water. 

Cover tapioca with cold water and 
let soak ten minutes; put into boiling 
water and boil until clear; sweeten, 
and add nutmeg or wine, if desired. 

Junket. — i cupful of milk; a few 
drops of Mcllhenny's Vanilla; i ta- 
blespoonful of sugar; J junket tab- 
let; grating of nutmeg. 

Heat the milk till lukewarm, add 
vanilla, sugar, and tablet, which has 
been dissolved in a teaspoonful of 
water. Mix well, pour into a sher- 
bert cup, cover, and stand in a warm 
place till the mixture jellies. Grate 



WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO KNOW 669 



nutmeg over the top, and keep in a 
cold place till ready to use. 

Invalid's Ice Cream. — i cupful of 
cream; J cupful of milk; IJ table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; J teaspoonful of 
Mcllhenny's "Vanilla. 

Mix ingredients in a baking-pow- 
der tin. Put on cover, set can in 
a pail or dish and surround with 
crushed ice and salt. Turn the can 
around often, occasionally take off 
the cover, scrape the cream from the 
sides as it freezes, and beat it well. 
When frozen, pour off the brine, beat 
cream with a spoon, pack it evenly 
in the can, and put on the cover. Let 
stand till ready to serve. Put more 
ice around the can if needed. 

Lemon Ice. — J cupful of water; J 
cupful of sugar; 1 lemon. 

Boil sugar and water together with 
a thin piece of lemon rind for three 
minutes. Cool, add lemon juice, and 
freeze like ice cream. 

Orange Ice. — J cupful of water; 2 
small oranges; 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. 

Make and freeze like lemon ice. 

Prune Jelly. — 1 cupful of prunes; 
li tablespoonfuls of gelatin; 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. 

Stew prunes in sufficient water to 
cover them well. When tender, press 
through a potato ricer, add gelatin 
previously soaked for half an hour in 
a little water, return to the fire, add 
sugar, reheat, and pour in molds to 
cool. 

Apple and Custard. — 1 large apple; 
1 tablespoonful of sugar; 1 teaspoon- 
ful of cornstarch; yolk of 1 egg. 

Pare and core apple, fill the cavity 
with sugar, put a little water in the 
bottom of a dish, and bake. Make 
a custard of a cupful of milk, sugar, 
cornstarch, and egg. Flavor to taste 
after boiling thick and pour around 
the baked apple. Use the white for 
a meringue. Eat cold. 

Slip. — 1 tablespoonful of corn- 
starch; 3 cupfuls of boiling water; J 
cupful of sugar; juice and rind of 1 
lemon; white of 1 egg. 

Boil the cornstarch tiU thick in 
water, add sugar and lemon, and pour 



into a baking dish. Beat the white 
of egg with a tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sugar, spread on top, brown 
slightly, and serve cold with cold 
boiled custard. 

Egg Cream. — 2 eggs; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar; juice and rind of } 
lemon. 

Separate yolks from whites of eggs 
and beat the yolks with sugar in bowl 
until well mixed, then add lemon, 
and place bowl in a dish on the stove. 
Stir slowly until the mixture begins 
to thicken, add the beaten whites of 
eggs, and stir imtil it is like thick 
cream. 

WHAT AN INVAIID MAY DBINE 

Irish-moss lemonade. — 3 cupfuls 
of boiling water; J cupful of Irish 
moss; i cupful of lemon juice; 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls of sugar. 

Soak the Irish moss over night, 
then pick it over very carefully. It is 
generally full of sand and all sorts 
of foreign matter, and can never be 
made palatable unless it has been 
through a number of waters. When 
clean, put it in a double boiler, pour 
boiling water over, it, and let it steep 
until dissolved. Strain through a 
square of cheese cloth, then add the 
lemon juice and sugar. Serve very 
hot. This is one of the most soothing 
drinks to give a patient who is suf- 
fering from a sore throat or lung 
trouble. 

Grape Water.^J cupful of boiling 
water; 4 tablespoonfuls of grape 
jelly; J cupful of cold water; 1 tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice; 1 table- 
spoonful of sugar. 

Pour boiling water over the jelly 
and stir until dissolved. Then add 
the cold water, sugar, and lemon 
juice, and a piece of ice sufficient to 
chiU it thoroughly. Another deli- 
cious drink may be made in the same, 
way from red-currant jelly. Black- 
berry, baAerry, and black-currant 
jelly are also excellent for this re- 
freshing drink. 

Cinnamon Punch. — 1 stick of cin- 
namon; 1 cupful of rich milk; 3 tea- 



670 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



spoonfuls of sugar; 1 teaspoonful of 
brandy. 

Put the cinnamon with the milk in 
a double boiler and steep till the 
flavor is all soaked out. Add the 
sugar and brandy. It may be used 
hot or ice cold, as desired. 

Barley Water. — 2 tablespoon fuls 
of barley; 4 cupfuls of cold water; J 
teaspoonful of salt. 

Wash the barley thoroughly and 
let it soak over night in cold water. 
In the morning set on the back of the 
stove where it will merely simmer, 
and cook for three hours. It ought 
to be reduced one half and be as 
thick as cream. Season with salt, 
and, if the patient likes it, a little 
sugar. Pour through a fine strainer, 
and drink hot. 

Oatmeal Gruel. — J cupful of oat- 
meal; 1 quart of cold water; 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

Cook in a double boiler two hours. 
Press through a strainer, dilute with 
cream, reheat, and serve. The weU- 
beaten white of 1 egg or a few table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream stirred into 
the gruel adds nutrition. 

Cornmeal Gruel. — 2 tablespoonfuls 
of cornmeal; 1 tablespoonful of flour; 
1 teaspoonful of salt; J cupful of 
cold water; 3 cupfuls of boiling hot 
water or mUk. 

Mix meal, flour, and salt; stir into 
the mixture enough cold milk or 
water to make a thin paste, and pour 
this into the hot milk or water. If wa- 
ter is used, cook one hour in a sauce- 
pan; if milk, three hours in a double 
boUer. Serve hot, diluted with cream. 

Egg Gruel. — 1 egg; 1 teaspoonful 
of sugar; 1 cupful of hot milk (not 
scalded); nutmeg or lemon juice to 
flavor. 

While the milk heats, beat the yolk 
of the egg till thick and light colored, 
■the white till stiff. Stir into the yolk 
the other ingredients in the following 
order: sugar, milk, beaten white, and 
flavoring. 

Eggnog. — 1 egg; 2 teaspoonfuls of 
sugar; IJ tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice; I or 3 tablespoonfuls of wine; 
nutmeg. 



Beat the yolk tUl thoroughly 
foamy; stir in the other ingredients. 
Nutmeg may' be omitted. 

Lemon Whey. — 1 pint of hot milk 
(not scalded); juice of 2 lemons. 

Add the lemon juice to the milk; 
when the latter has curdled, strain it 
through cloth. Serve the whey hot 
or cold in a glass. 

Toast Water. — 1 slice of stale 
bread; 2 cupfuls of boiling water; 1 
slice of lemon. 

Have bread J-inch thick, toast 
brown, pour upon it boiling water, 
cover closely and cool; strain it. A 
slice of lemon may be added. 

Barley Water. — 2 ounces of pearl 
barley; 3 cupfuls of water. 

Wash barley in cold water, boil 
twenty minutes in a covered dish; 
strain, sweeten, and add lemon, if 
permitted. 

Apple Water. — 6 sour apples; 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls of sugar; 1 quart of 
boiling water. 

Slice apples, add sugar and boiling 
water. Cover closely and cool; strain. 

Bran Tea. — 2 cupfuls of bran; 1 
quart of boiling water. 

Steep bran in water for an hour; 
strain, and season to taste. 

Lemonade. — 1 lemon; 1 tablespoon- 
ful of sugar. 

Squeeze lemon, add sugar, mix 
with ice water and strain; rub the 
rim of the glass with a slice of lemon 
peel and allow it to float. 

Egg Lemonade. — 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar; 1 egg; 3 tablespoonfuls of 
cold water; 1 lemon. 

Beat sugar and egg thoroughly, 
then mix cold water and the lemon 
juice; put chipped ice in the glass, 
and fill with ice water. 

Egg and Coffee. — 1 egg; 1 table- 
spoonful of sugar; J cupful of boil- 
ing coffee. 

Beat egg and sugar together and 
add the boiling coffee gradually; stir, 
and add hot cream. 

Possett.— 1 cupful of milk; 1 table- 
spoonfiJ of molasses. 

Let milk come to a boiling point, 
add molasses, stir well, strain, and 
serve. 



WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO KNOW 671 



Pick-me-up. — 1 tablespoonf ul of 
powdered sugar; 1 egg; dash of salt; 
1 tablespoonful of brandy. 

Separate the egg and beat the yolk 
until thick and lemon-colored, add 
the powdered sugar and brandy, beat 
again, then blend with white of the 
egg whipped to a stiff froth. This is 
so thick that it may be eaten with a 
spoon. 

Rum and Milk. — 1 cupful of rich 
milk; 1 egg; 1 tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sugar; dash of salt; 1 table- 
spoonful of rum ; scraping of nutmeg. 

Separate the egg, beat the yolk un- 
til quite thick, add the powdered 
sugar, then the nutmeg, salt, rum, 
and, last of all, the white of the egg 
beaten thick. Put in a shaker with 
a few pieces of ice and shake till cold, 
then strain into a glass. 

Hulled Wine. — 1 cupful of port 
wine; 2 tablespoonf uls of powdered 
sugar; 1 egg; 1 stick of cinnamon; i 
cupful of water. 

Pour the water over the cinnamon 
and let it steep in a double boiler for 
ten minutes, add the sugar, beat the 
egg stiff, pour over it the flavored 
water, lifting out the cinnamon, add 
the wine, pour it all into a shaker 
and shake hard till the drink is thor- 
oughly blended. If liked cold, add a 
bit of ice to it; if hot, set the shaker 
in boiling water for a few minutes. 

Flaxseed lemonade. — 3 cupfuls of 
cold water; 1 tablespoonful of whole 
flaxseed; 2 tablespoonf uls of sugar; 
juice of 1 lemon. 

Wash the flaxseed, put in a double 
boiler, pour the water over it and 
steep for an hour. Sweeten, add the 
lemon juice, and strain. This is a 
valuable remedy in a case of hoarse- 
ness or inflamed throat. 

Slippeiyrelm Tea. — i teaspoonfuls 
of slippery-elm powder; 3 cupfuls of 
boiling water; 2 tablespoonf uls of 
sugar; juice of 1 lemon. 

Pour the boiling water over the 
slippery elm; when cool, strain, 
sweeten, and flavor vdth the lemon 
juice. 

Ice Chocolate. — i cupful of milk; 
J cupful of Apolllnaris; 2 table- 



spoonfuls of chipped .ice; 2 table- 
spoonfuls of chocolate sirup; J cup- 
ful of whipped cream. 

Put these ingredients into a shaker 
and shake till frothy. Strain into a 
tumbler. 

Kumiss. — i cake of yeast; 4 cupful 
of sugar; J cupful of water; 3 quarts 
of milk. 

Boil the sugar and water for a few 
minutes, dissolve the yeast in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of water, heat the milk till 
lukewarm, add the yeast and water, 
and stir. Put into thoroughly clean 
beer bottles, set them upright for 
twelve hours in a warm room, then 
lay on their sides in a refrigerator. 
When the kumiss is twenty-four 
hours old it is ready to drink. 

Rice Uilk. — 2 tablespoonfuls of 
rice; 2 cupfuls of scalded milk; 1 tea- 
spoonful of sugar; dash of salt. 

Soak the rice over night in cold 
water. Next morning put in a double 
boiler with the milk and seasoning, 
stir occasionally, and let it steam for 
an hour and a half. Rub through a 
sieve, grate a scraping of nutmeg 
over it, and, if desired, put a table- 
spoonful of whipped cream on top. 
Serve hot or cold. 

PROVEN "HOKE BEIUEDIES" 

Gruels are more tempting to the 
sick if whipped to a froth with an egg 
beater before serving in a pretty cup. 

Beef tea is wanted frequently when 
there is little time to prepare it. It 
can be made quickly in the following 
manner: take a lean piece of beef, 
run it through a food cutter, using 
the finest cutter; cover with cold 
water and set at the back part of the 
range to heat. Do not let it boil, as 
that coagulates the albumen. Stir 
thoroughly, strain, and squeeze dry 
in a potato masher. This will extract 
all the juice of the beef quickly and 
easily. 

As a " pick-me-up," nothing is 
more nourishing than the white of a 
fresh egg beaten to a froth, slightly 
sweetened, and blended with the juice 
of a sweet orange. 



672 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



HOT-WEATHEE CAEE OF INFAiraS 
AND YOUNG CHILDEEN 

The following suggestions, given 
by F. W. Reilly, M.D., Assistant 
Commissioner of Health, and en- 
dorsed by W. A. Evans, M.D., Com- 
missioner of Health, both of the 
Chicago Health Department, are the 
best to be obtained anywhere on the 
subject. The department claims that 
the advice contained in this article 
has been the means of saving the 
lives of more than eighty thousand 
babies and young children during the 
last eleven years, in Chicago alone. 
We print the circular without fur- 
ther comment: 

One third of the total yearly 
deaths of infants and young children 
in this city occur in the two hottest 
months of the year — July and Au- 
gust. 

Heat kills off babies and young 
children largely because it spoils 
their milk and other food quickly. 
Even breast milk, when the mother is 
overheated, may give the baby colic 
or " summer complaint." If a mother 
is very hot, she should draw a tea- 
spoonful or so from the breast before 
nursing her baby. If the breast has 
not been given for two hours or more, 
it should be drawn off in the same 
way. And if the mother has been 
badly frightened or very angry or 
excited, it is not safe to give the 
breast at all; it should be drawn and 
the milk thrown away. 

The Proper Food for Babies is 
mother's Milk. — No sensible mother 
needs advice on this point. If she is 
fairly healthy, her breast will give all 
the nourishment the child should have 
until it begins to cut its teeth — ^the 
sixth or eighth month. Up to this 
time it is a sin to give an infant one 
morsel of solid food of any kind, or 
anything but breast milk (if the 
mother is healthy) except water in 
moderate quantity occasionally, hut 
never soon after nursing. 

Many infants are killed every year 
by bringing them to the table with 
the family and giving them a little 



bit of this, that, and the other — meat, 
vegetables, pie, pickles, etc., which 
the little stomach is not fitted for. 
They are killed just as surely, though 
not so quickly, as if they had been 
fed poison out of a drug store. 

When the baby that is fed this way 
sickens and dies, it is said that the 
baby died of " diarrhea," or " dysen- 
tery," or " cholera infantum," or 
" summer complaint," or " teething," 
or " convulsions," or " brain fever." 

But these are only names for the 
result of poisoning with unfit food. 

Wait till the baby gets its teeth 
before you put food into its mouth 
that needs to be chewed. 

If the Breast Milk Gives Out, or 
becomes thin or watery, or if the 
mother has consumption or any other 
long-standing sickness, the baby must 
be put on the bottle and fed with 
cow's milk. . . . 

As soon as the milk is received, 
take what is to be used for the baby 
and " scald " it. Don't let it boil. 

A good way is to set a pan of cold 
water on the stove and put the ves- 
sel containing baby's milk into this 
pan; just as soon as the water comes 
to a boil, take it off. This amounts 
to what is called " sterilizing " or 
" pasteurizing " the milk. Add a 
pinch of baking soda to the hot milk 
— a little less than half a teaspoonful 
to a quart. 

If the milk was sweet and hadn't 
begim to " turn " when it was re- 
ceived, it will keep sweet for twenty- 
four hours or more after being treat- 
ed this way, even in hot weather. 
But, of course, it should be kept in 
a close-covered vessel or fruit jar or 
stoppered bottle. Whatever it is 
kept in should be thoroughly scalded 
— cover, stopper, and all — ^just before 
the milk is put in. 

If you have an ice box or refrig- 
erator to put the milk in, or can in 
any other way keep it from "turn- 
ing," it is better to let it stand for 
about six hours and then pour off the 
upper half for the baby's milk. This 
should then be " scalded " and soda 
added, as before described. If you 



WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO KNOW 67S 



can't do this, a little cream should be 
added to the baby's milk — say one ta- 
blespoonful of cream to two or three 
of the milk. 

To make this nearly like breast 
milk, add two cupfuls of water that 
has been boiled to each cupful of 
milk and enough white sugar to make 
it as sweet as breast milk. 

(Milk sugar, if perfectly pure, is 
better than v»hite or cane sugar.) 

If this mixture is too rich, the baby 
will vomit it in curds or lumps, or 
it will pass through the bowels in 
white flakes and shreds. If this hap- 
pens, add more boiled water to the 
mixture until you find just what 
strength the baby's stomach will 
stand — what it can digest. 

When the Baby is About a Uonth 
Old, barley water should- be used in- 
stead of plain water. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of pearl barley in four 
cupfuls of cold water; boil an hour 
or more — down to two cupfuls; strain 
through a. close cloth; add a pinch of 
salt and sweeten to breast-milk taste. 
Add this to a cupful of "scalded" 
cow's milk treated as before de- 
scribed and begin feeding this 
strength. 

Gradually use more milk and less 
barley water, until at about six 
months of age the child is getting 
two thirds milk and one third barley 
water. 

Next to healthy breast milk, this 
will make as good food as the infant 
can get during teething and weaning. 
Then comes the pure milk — always 
" scalded " — bread and milk, baked 
potato and milk, oatmeal porridge — 
which can't be boiled too long, never 
less than two hours — and always 
eaten with milk, and the milk always 
"scalded," not boiled. 

Don't Overfeed the Baby. — Once In 
two or three hours is often enough to 
suckle or feed a baby until it is four 
or five weeks old; after that do not 
feed so often. 

When a baby is about six months 
old it will generally thrive best if 
fed only once during the night and 
four or five times regularly during 



the day. It is bad for a baby's stom- 
ach and bowels to feed it too often 
or too much at a time, especially in 
hot weather. 

A new-born baby's stomach will 
hold from two to three tablespoon- 
fuls, and not more than this amount 
— rather less — should be given at a 
time during the first week or so of a 
bottle-fed baby's life. 

As the baby grows, the quantity 
should be gradually increased, so that 
at the end of the first month it may 
be taking about four tablespoonfuls 
at a meal. Some children will re- 
quire more and others will not stand 
so much; but there is more danger 
of giving too much at a time than 
too little. 

Don't Stick the Nipple In the 
Baby's Mouth Every Time It Cries. 
— If the baby is properly fed at 
regular times it won't get hungry 
enough to make it cry, and it is fool- 
ish to feed it whenever it cries in- 
stead of trying to find out the trou- 
ble. It may be only thirsty, and a 
swallow or two of cold water — ^not a 
big drink — will stop it; or its clothes 
may be uncomfortable, or its napkin 
need changing. 

Try to find out what makes it cry, 
and then use "mother wit." And 
don't be afraid of giving the baby a 
drink of water. It heeds water as 
much as milk. It needs more water 
in proportion to its size and weight, 
and oftener, than its mother does. 
Thirst causes more needless suffer- 
ing to babies than anything else. 
Give the baby a drink! — but be sure 
the water is pure, by having been 
either boiled or filtered. 

Don't Teed the Baby with a 
Spoon. — Sucking is the natural way 
that a baby takes its food. It needs 
the sucking action of the lips and 
mouth and tongue to mix its food 
with the fluids of the mouth and to 
keep it from getting into the stomach 
too fast. 

Spoon feeding doesn't do this. 

TTse a Plain, Common Bottle for 
Feeding, with a rubber nipple and 
no tube. 



674 



HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 



Fancy nursing bottles, with long 
rubber tubes and patent contriv- 
ances, besides costing money, can't be 
cleaned easily, and babies don't do 
well with them in other ways. The 
more simple the bottle and the nip- 
ple, the better for the baby. The 
rubber-tube bottle is a device of the 
Evil One for lazy mothers. It is bad 
enough when a mother can't suckle 
her own infant at her own breast; 
lee her at least take it in her arms 
and hold the bottle and " mother " it 
while it feeds. 

Take the nipple off after each feed- 
ing and at once boil both bottle and 
nipple for at least ten minutes. Be- 
fore using again, rinse the bottle and 
nipple in water that has been boiled 
— about a quart of water with half 
a teaspoonful of soda in it — or keep 
them in a pan of soda and water 
when not in use. 

More babies get " sore mouth " and 
" wind colic " and " summer com- 
plaint " for want of care of the nurs- 
ing bottle than from any other one 
cause. A little stale milk around the 
neck of the bottle or in the nipple 
will set up a ferment which is poison 
to the delicate lining of a baby's 
mouth and throat and stomach. 

Of course the baby's bottle food 
should be warm — about the same as 
breast milk, or " blood heat " ; that is, 
as warm as the inside of the mouth. 

Keep the Baby Clean and It Will 
Stand the Heat Better.— When the 
thermometer is at eighty or ninety in 
the shade, it isn't easy to keep the 
baby cool. But it can always be kept 
clean and will then be more com- 
fortable and have a better chance of 
living through the hot weather. It 
should have at least one full bath 
every day and oftener during ex- 
treme heat. Never bathe within one 
hour after feeding it. Bathe first; 
feed afterwards. 

Dress as lightly as possible. It will 
be better stark naked, except for a 
napkin and binder, some hours a day 
during the hot weather when indoors. 
But keep it in the open air, out of 
the hot sun, as much as you can be- 



tween sunrise and sunset. The out- 
door air, even of a dirty street, is 
fresher and better than the air in the 
house. 

Fresh air is the breath of life in 
a baby's nostrils. Take it or send 
it to the parks, or open squares, or 
the lake shore as often as you can. 

In the changeable summer climate 
of Chicago, care must be taken 
against sudden chilling. A thin, soft 
flannel binder, wound two or three 
times around the body, will do more 
to guard against this chilling than 
the ordinary full dress of frock, vest, 
skirts, drawers, socks, etc. 

This binder should be only wide 
enough to cover the belly, an inch or 
so above the navel and a couple of 
inches below. It should be wound 
smooth and. free from creases or 
folds, and fitted with a few stitches 
of soft darning cotton — not pins. 

This binder and a napkin are all 
the dress a baby needs during the 
heat of the day in the house in 
summer. 

Do Not let the Baby Sleep In the 
Same Bed with any Other Person. 
— If there is no crib, the mother 
should put a couple of chairs at her 
bedside, with any sort of soft cover- 
ing on them — not feather pillows or 
hot woolen stuffs — and let the baby 
sleep there. It will be more com- 
fortable on a summer night than ly- 
ing against the hot body of its 
mother, and will not be so apt to dis- 
turb or be disturbed. 

The backs of the chairs will keep 
the baby from falling, and the mother 
can readily reach over to care for it 
when necessary. 

Do Not Drug the Baby. — If after 
all your care the baby should fall 
sick, do not " pour drugs of which 
you know nothing into a body of 
which you know less." 

There is no mother in the city of 
Chicago that cannot get the best of 
medical treatment for her sick baby 
without money and without price, if 
she is unable to pay. Call a doctor 
instead of spending money for patent 
medicines, " soothing sirups " or 



WHAT THE HOME NURSE OUGHT TO KNOW 675 



" cure-alls," which will probably do 
your baby more harm than good. 

Although this advice is more di- 
rectly for babies during the first year 
of life, the sense of it applies quite 
as well to older children. 

Don't overfeed them, and don't let 
them overfeed themselves. 

Don't give them rich food — ^meats, 
gravies, pastries, cake, etc. — nor a 
great variety. The simpler and plain- 
er the better — ^plenty of milk, whole- 
wheat bread, oatmeal, baked pota- 
toes, baked apples, and fresh fruit of 
all kinds, in season, but be sure the 
fruit is ripe and fresh. Roast and 



stews and made dishes and — pie will 
come soon enough and so will dys- 
pepsia. 

Keep up the daily full bath imtil 
it becomes a fixed habit. 

Keep them out in the open air as 
much as possible the whole year 
round, and send them into the coun- 
try whenever you can do so, but only 
to places where the water is pure. 

It a baby or child is worth having, 
it is worth saving, and more than 
half of the babies and young children 
that die (in Chicago) every year 
could be saved by follovrfng the ad- 
vice here given. 



A LAST WORD TO THE READER 



Scattered through the book, in al- 
most every chapter, are foods and 
drinks of which a convalescent may 
partake. Instead of repeating again 
the recipes which have been already 
given, one may easily refer to the in- 
dex. In the chapter on beverages 
are cocoa, afternoon chocolate, frozen 
punch, lime punch, raspberry and 
currant punch, raspberry vinegar, egg 
lemonade, black-currant cup, fruit cup, 
currant punch, and fruit beverage. 

Among soups are found a number 
of recipes for this light and nutri- 
tious form of food for an invalid. 
While a convalescent is trying to gain 
strength, it is possible that the doc- 
tor may order soup for him every 
day. Among some best suited for 
such a diet is consommi, tomato 
soups, mutton, Du Barry, veal, 
chicken, cream of corn, cream of cel- 
ery, asparagus cream, clam, Scotch 
mutton broth, and oyster soups. 

From the egg chapter one may 
choose eggs soft boiled, steamed, 
baked, egg nest, poached, shirred, 
poached in milk, eggs in ramequins, 
or any of the delicious omelets. 

Until convalescents are well ad- 
vanced, a doctor allows few vege- 
tables, except, perhaps, a baked pota- 
to or cream asparagus. Later come 
such food as carrots, green peas, 
spinach, or some of the wheat pastes, 
such as macaroni or spaghetti cooked 
in a cream sauce. 

Although for some time after an ill- 
ness toast is the bread usually served 
on an invalid's tray, a variety of 



breads takes its place during con- 
valescence. Entire-wheat bread is 
considered nourishing for certain dis- 
eases, gum-gluten bread is often rig- 
idly adhered to, or a bread made of 
bran. Then Boston brown bread, 
cornmeal gems, popovers, and baking- 
powder biscuits are allowed as the 
stomach grows stronger. 

It is some time after a sickness be- 
fore salads take their place as a diet, 
then usually the crisp green things 
are served with a French dressing in- 
stead of mayonnaise. Where a may- 
onnaise is desired, the boiled dress- 
ing, blended with an equal quantity 
of whipped cream, often proves quite 
digestible. Among these salads may 
be numbered chicken salad, Waldorf 
salad, sweetbread-and-tomato salad, 
and salads made from hard-boiled 
eggs. 

When one comes to desserts, there 
are an endless variety of delicious 
things which an invalid enjoys besides 
the few given in this chapter. Among 
them may be enumerated boiled and 
baked custards, chocolate custard, 
caramel custard, soufflSs, fruit whips, 
meringues, all sorts of junkets, blanc- 
mange, boiled rice, plain rice pud- 
ding, tapioca cream, fruit tapiocas, 
plain bread pudding, chocolate bread 
pudding, cracker pudding, and almost 
any of the delicate desserts made 
from gelatin. Sponge cake is allowed, 
and sometimes a plain gingerbread, 
while ice cream of the plainer sort, 
fruit sherbets, and fruit ices are 
allowable. 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Abbreviations, druggist's 626 

Abdomen, bleeding of 655 

wounded 647 

Absorbents, inks, for 166 

kinds of ; 169 

stains, tor 155 

uses ot 1B9 

Accident, hints in time ot 647 

Accidents, electricity, from 653 

liglitning, avoiding 653 

Acetate ot copper, poisons 139 

Acetic acid, Armenian cement in 343 

aromatic vinegar, in 471 

bronze, for dark shades of 402 

cream of tartar 157 

eraser, as ink 70 

fur, removal of 138 

glue, liquid, for making 341 

green, tor coloring bronze 401 

ink, for metal label 431 

for printer's 432 

removal from linen 166-168 

stains, for 160 

moles, for 440 

mucilage, in 340 

poisoning from 649 

rouge, tor 472 

Acetylene flame, brilliancy of 100 

health, effect of, on 100 

Acetylene gas, annual cost of • 94 

eyes, less trying to the 100 

illumination, tor 95-99-100 

Acid, citric, solution, dilute, ot 157 

drops 532 

solution, saturated, of 157 

use ot 167 

fatty, soap, in 186 

lactic, uses of 157 

muriatic, applications ot 158 

nature and uses of 158 

oxalic 156 

application of 156 

bleaching with 184 

use of 156 

-proof cement 350 

paint 362 

soap, masquer's 198 

stains 167 

colored silks, removal from 172 

gloves, on 177 

linen, removal from 167-168 

removal ot 155-156,158 

silk, to remove from 172 

violet silk, to remove from 172 

sulphuric, bleaching, for 182 

tartaric, application ot 158 

nature ot 157 

uses ot 157 

Acids, alkalies tor neutralizing 649 

burns from 656 

cautions In using 156 

tatty, animal oils, fixed 376 

properties ot 187 

Aconite, poisoning from 651 

Acre, laying out an 616 

plots, dimensions of 617 

Adheslves 332-S37 

choice of 338 

677 



PAOE 

Adheslves, isinglass 342 

lead 346 

oil 346 

receptacle for 335 

special 346 

use of 338 

Adulterants, test tor 568 

Adulterated wax, testing 646 

Air, admitted freely 51 

bath 444 

skin, for hardening the 439 

bladder, gelatin from 33T 

currents, direction ot, determining.. 60 

fresh 645 

babies, for 674 

mixers, adjusting 132 

care of 131 

gas range, of 131 

night 59 

pure, denatured alcohol Ill 

sick room, in 662 

Alabaster, cement for 347 

cleaning 296, 4361 

gypsum in 435 

Imitation ot 436 

nature ot 435 

polishing 296 

Alcohol, absslute 159 

almond paste, for 469 

anhydrous 159 

aqua ammonia, with 159 

asphalt dissolved by 367 

attar ot roses, test tor 475 

benzine, with 159 

blackboards, in paint for 361 

blacking, liquid, tor 424 

books, for grease or oil on 70 

burnt steel, for restoring 3881 

candles, for cleaning 109 

carpets, for cleaning 270 

chemical soap, in 163 

cold cream, for 470 

collodion cement, in 350 

compound cement. In 349' 

denatured 109 

flatlron 226 

healthf ulness of Ill 

heating with Ill 

possibilities of Ill 

Florida water, for 482 

fur, for paint on 180 

furniture, for polishing 381 

tor, color ot, restoring 289 

generator cup, in the 86 

gilding, tor cleaning 411 

glove cleaner, in 178 

glue, liquid, tor making 341 

gold lace, for cleaning 173 

gold, plating, tor 405 

grass stains, tor 163 

industrial 109 

ink, in green 43(1 

mold, tor preventing, in 432 

iron rust, marble, for removal of, 

from 294 

lamps, construction of IIC 

sick room, in 66T 

student IIC 



678 



INDEX 



•page 

Alcohol lamps, Welsbach on 110 

workroom, in the 335 

lacquer, for 407 

laundry, in the 204 

lavender water, lor 481 

leather, for black 417 

men's clothes, for cleaning 175 

mirrors, for cleaning 286 

mucilage, lor preserving 341 

nickel, for cleaning 294 

oil stains, for removal of 164 

old stains, for 169 

paint, for removing 278 

perfumes, for ■ 476 

piano keys, for 289 

picture frames, for 290 

poisoning from 650 

rosin, for dissolving 366 

shellac cement, for 343 

dissolved by 366 

silver, for cleaning 145,413 

scouring mixture, in 162 

sleeplessness, cause of 152 

soaps, for cutting 449 

stove, fruit, for canning 550 

sunburn lotions, in 465 

transparent soap, in 451 

turpentine, for mixing with 159 

uses of 158 

varnish, oil painting, for 372 

water, for testing 204 

wax stains, for 164 

wood, in polishing 379 

Ale, leather cement, in 349 

Alkali, aluminum corroded by 397 

excess of 220 

in soap 186 

free in soap 186 

properties of 187 

soap, in 185 

stains 172 

removal of 172 

yellow tinge, causes 222 

Alkalies, cautions in use of 205 

clothes, rot 205 

neutralizing 649 

poisoning from 649 

rosin, dissolved by 366 

Alkaline lye, bleaching, for 182 

Alkanet root, toilet preparations, for 

coloring 461 

rouge, for 472 

Alloy, coinage, in 384 

Alloys, metallic 384 

Allspice, moths, for repelling 307 

Almond bonbons 527 

cream 465 

complexion, for the 465 

creams 526 

oil, cold cream, for 470 

hands, for chapped 455 

paste 465, 468 

hands, for chapped 455 

preparations 465 

soap 449 

Almonds 610 

almond paste, for 469 

bitter, almond soap, for 449 

freckles, for 463 

sunburn lotions, in 465 

toilet water, for 480 

milk of 466 

oil of, chapped lips, for 473 

rouge, for 472 

sachet, for 477 

sugared 435 

milk, complexion, for the 465 

soap 449 

Alpaca, washing 216 

Alum, acid principle of 157 

alkaline, hard soap, for 196 



PASES 

Alum, bedbugs, for exterminating — 313 

brass, in bronzing 401 

brick washv in 280 

burnt, books, for grease or oil on.. 70 

gold lace, for cleaning 173 

calicoes, for 210 

candles, for 107 

canvas, for flreprooflng 93 

carpets, for faded 271 

cloth, for flreprooflng 92 

for waterprooflng 93 

colored silks, in washing 215 

colors, for flxing 210 

comforters, in washing 218 

cracks, for filling 273 

damp walls, for 284 

fat, for graining 189 

fireproof paint, for 361 

fires, preventing 92 

putting out 91 

freckles, for 462 

fur skins, for tanning 417 

garments, for flreprooflng 92 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

gold, for coloring brass 401 

in coloring 434 

plating, in 405 

grease spots, for removal of 167 

green, for coloring 210 

for coloring bronze 401 

hands, for moist 452 

ink, in 165 

for red 429 

for yellow 430 

iron rust, for removal of 167 

Ivory, bleaching 142 

for cleaning 292 

knife handles, for fastening 141 

lace, for cleaning 213 

lamps, for mending 149 

leather, for dyeing red 417 

in tanning 415 

library paste, in 339 

metals, lor gliding 409 

mildew, for preservation against ... 164 

moth patches, for 440 

nickel, for cleaning 299 

paper hanger's paste, in 339 

paste blacking, for 424 

plaster of Paris, with 435 

Roman, rouge, lor 472 

silver, discolored, for cleaning 143 

for polishing 14S 

soapsuds, lor cleansing 201 

stove polish, in 12& 

sunburn lotions, for 465 

tallow, lor clarilying 107 

water, clariflcation of 115 

whitewash, in 279 

wood, flreprooflng with 93 

woolen shawls, for washing 217 

wrinkles, for 440 

Alumina, sand soaps, in 198 

sulphate of, cloth, waterprooflng.... 93 

fabrics, flreprooflng 93 

Aluminum, alloys of 397 

bronze 397 

chloride of, ink, in I6B 

ink, in copying 428 

nature of 397 

oven doors, for cleaning 131 

soldering 397 

wash, vermin, for 310 

Amalgam, dentists' 6H 

gilding by 408 

gold 40C 

Amalgams 384, 39f 

dental 39; 

making , 33^ 

mercury for 39; 

metals, of ' .' " ' sg.j 



INDEX 



679 



PAGE! 

Amber 365 

cement 344 

fish, in gilding 411 

Ambergris, essence of, perfumes, tor. 476 

sachet, for 477 

toilet water, for; 481 

linen, for preserving 232 

nature of 474 

resin cement. In 343 

varnish 367 

making 367 

nature of 365 

Ammonia, acids, for neutralizing .... 156 

acid stains, for 172 

bedstead, for vf ashing 26B 

blacking, for /. 424 

black silk, for cleaning 171 

brass furniture, for cleaning 291 

carbonate of, jewelry, tor polishing. 433 

prints, tor cleaning 70 

smelling salts, for 158, 479 

carpets, for 255 

chamois, for cleaning 179 

chloride of, wicks, tor candle 107 

coarse paint, tor cleaning 278 

color removed by '. . . . 246 

' colored silks, stains, removal of, 

from 172 

curtains, tor washing 214 

feather pillows, for cleaning 267 

furniture, for polishing. 381 

gas, a by-product of 95 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

grease, carpets, in removal of, from 271 

hard soap, for 192 

hides, for tanning 416 

ink, in Indelible 429 

Insect bites, for 655 

ivory knife handles, bleaching 142 

laundry, in the 204 

linoleum, for renewing 41 

muriate ot, flres, putting out 91 

nature and uses of 158 

nickel, for cleaning 294 

paint, tor cleaning.. 277 

phosphate ot, fires, preventing 92 

poisoning from 650 

powdered, flannel, for bleaching 184 

rubber cement, in 343 

sea- water stains, tor 172 

silk, for bleaching 172 

tor cleaning 171 

soap, tor increasing 194 

spirits of, tainting, remedy for 651 

medicine case, in 648 

sponges, tor cleaning 448 

sulphate ot, fires, preventing 92 

flres, for putting out 91 

tan shoes, for 421 

washing fluid, in 205 

water, acid, in neutralization ot .... 158 

insect bites, tor 648 

white goods, for bleaching 185 

kid, for cleaning 420 

windows, tor cleaning 285 

wood floors, tor cleaning 275 

Ammoniacal copper carbonate, insects, 

for destroying 329 

spraying with 329 

Aniline blue in ink 427 

bronzing fluid 402 

dye, ink, for .' 429 

Ink, tor rubber stamp 431 

shellac, for coloring 370 

orange, ink, lor yellow 430 

violet. Ink, for hectograph 431 

ink, tor violet 430 

leather, for bronzing 403 

Animal bites, poisoning from 655 

fibers, bleaching 181 

gasoline, cleaning with 160 



PAGE 

Animal matter, test for 115 

oils 376 

fixed 376 

preservation ot 377 

rancid, restoration of 377 

Animals, domestic, fleas on 315 

Anime 365 

varnish 363 

nature ot 365 

Aniseed, rat trap, for 317 

Anopheles mosquito 59 

yellow fever, communicate 323 

Anthracite (or hard) coal, as fuel 81 

Antidotes, poisons, tor 649 

Antifriction alloy, nature ot 396 

Antimony, bonfires, tor 106 

butter ot 398 

fiowers ot 398 

nature ot 397 

Antiseptic ice 118 

solution, medicine case. In 649 

Ant nests, destruction of 320 

the white 320 

white, ravages, to prevent 320 

Ants, bedbugs, enemies of 314 

black 319 

exterminating 319 

camphor, for exterminating 319 

destruction ot 319 

red 319 

exterminating 319 

trapping 320 

white, destruction of 321 

Apoplexy, shock from 652 

Apothecaries' fluid measure 623 

weight 625 

Apple and custard, invalids, tor 669 

preserves 554 

water, invalids, for 670 

Apples, chapped lips, for 474 

evaporated 609 

AppliquS embroidery 247 

Apprenticeship, domestic 6. 

Apricot preserves 555 

Apricots, whole, preserving 55G 

Apron, clothespins, for 219 

Aprons, mending 246 

Approximate equivalents 642 

table of 644 

Aqua ammonia, acid stains, for re- 
moval of 158 

alabaster, for cleaning 296 

alcohol, with 159 

alkaline soaps 196 

blankets, in washing 213 

cod liver oil, removal of 167 

coffee stains, tor 168; 

color, restoration of 156 

copper, for testing 389 

door plates, tor cleaning 145 

freckle lotion, tor 46S 

glassware, tor washing 140 

gloves, stains, removal ot 178 

grease spots, removal ot 167 

greasy tins, for 138 

insect bites, for 311 

jewelry, for polishing 433 

kid gloves, for cleaning 179 

men's clothes, for cleaning 175 

mosquito bites, for curing 326 

nickel, for cleaning 129 

rouge, tor 473 

rugs, for cleaning 270 

sinks, cleaning 75 

soot, removal ot 148 

tinware, tor 138 

wall paper, test for 38 

washing fluid, for 206-207 

Aqua regla, gold dissolved by 408 

metals, for gilding 409 

Aquaria, cement for 347 



680 



INDEX 



FAG£ 

Arabic, gum, nature of 366 

Arch, rooms, for living 51 

Arc lamps, Welsbach type, of 99 

Argand cbimneys, Unds of 97 

Argon, atmosphere, in 68 

Arm, bleeding of 654 

Injured, when 647 

upper, fracture of 65S 

Armpit, bleeding of 654 

Armenian bole, gilding size, for... 411-412 

cement 342 

Arnica, bruises, for 653 

tincture of, medicine case, in 648 

Aromatic vinegar 471, 668 

imitation of 568 

toilet, for the 471 

Arsenic, cockroaches, for destroying, 

311-312 

copper, for whitening 390 

electroplating, in 400 

odor of, removing 38 

Paris green, in 329 

poisoning from 651 

silver flsh, destroying 69 

soap with 451 

sulphuret of, sealing wax, for yellow 375 

wall paper, in 38 

white, insects, for destroying 330 

Arsenite of lead, insects, for destroy- 
ing 330 

of soda, spraying with 330 

Art, electrotyping an educational 403 

Artery, bleeding from 657 

ruptured 648 

Artificial honey, making 545 

illumination 94 

light, effect on health 95 

marble, making 436 

Arts-and-crafts movement, origin of. . 34 

walls, tinting 38 

Asbestos, flatirons, for 226 

- grate, blower for 88 

iron holders 227 

ironware cement, in 348 

for mending 386 

paint, for acid-proof 362 

paper, waste of heat, preventing 85 

pipes, protection of 263 

sinks, for 113 

stove holders, for 129 

uses for 130 

Ash, granulated soda, washing pow- 
der, in 207 

Ashes, bottles, cleaning 140 

coal, china, for cleaning 145 

earthenware, cleaning 138 

hard water, for softening 204 

hot, hearth, cleaning a 130 

ironware cement, for 348 

oak wood, from 188 

potash lye, from 188 

In making 188 

range, keeping from edges of 127 

removal of, each morning 127-128 

scouring with 141 

sifted, fireproof paint, for 361 

steel, for bluing 387 

wood, fires, putting out 91 

Asparagus, creamed, invalids, for 668 

Asphalt 367 

nature of 367 

varnish 368 

Asphalts, lakes of 367 

Asphaltum, ink, for printer's 432 

stencil ink, for 429 

varnish 372 

Atmosphere, consistency of 58 

dryness of, overcoming 84 

Attar of rose 477 

Attic, cleaning 264 

Automobiles, effects of 41 



PAGE 

Avoirdupois weight — .• 624 

Awnings, fireprooflng 93 

waterproofing 94 

Axle grease 378 

making 378 

Axles, Babbit metal for 395 

Axminster carpet, domestic 39 

chenille carpet 39 

Babbit metal, nature of 395 

Babies, cow's milk for 672 

drug, do not 675 

food for 672 

hot weather, care of in 674 

Bacon, curing 596 

Bacteria, contagious diseases, in 253 

drinking water, from impure 114 

dust, in 252 

Bag, clothespin 219 

cotton, clotheslines, for 220 

Bags, button 237 

sewing room, for the 237 

flour 77 

handkerchief 237 

Ice 121 

paper, uses of 77% 

scrap, for sewing room 237 

sewing 237 

and handkerchief 237 

room, for 237 

wash, laundry, for 154 

waste thread, for 237 

Bait, rat traps, for 317 

Baize, dark green, rooms, for dark- 
ening 147 

Baking dishes, care of 138 

powder, can, sprinkling, for 222 

cans, uses of 78,335 

tartaric acid in 157 

soda, ink, in marking 428 

insect bites, for 655 

linen, wine stains, removal of . . . . 169 

souring mixture. In 162 

walls, for blackened 284 

Balances, toilet preparations, for 461 

Baldness 489 

Ball, candy making in 519 

darning 244 

Balloon varnish 368 

Balls, black, leather for 426 

Balsam, Canada 371 

needles, pillows, tor fancy 49 

of Peru, almond creams, in 467 

sealing wax, for perfuming ...374, 376 

varnish 373 

Bamboo furniture, cleaning 289 

Banana peel, tan shoes, for polishing. 420 

Bandoline 501 

Bands, leather, cement for 349 

Banking fires, buckwheat coal, with.. 82 

pea coal for 82 

Barberries, pickled 581 

Barber's itch 499 

Bark galls, leather, in tanning 416 

soap 197 

Barley water, babies, for 673 

invalids, for 670 

Barns, painting 354 

Barometers, mercury for 398 

Barrel, clothes hamper, as 154 

drainage, for 113 

grease, for preserving 189 

hoop, clothes hanger, as a 309 

paint 362 

rain water 204 

Barrels, packing, for 300 

Bases, toilet preparations, of 459 

Basket, clothespins, for 219 

wire, bathroom, for 443 

Bath, air 444 

bran 445 



INDEX 



681 



PAGE 

Bath, brick, brass fittings, cleaning.. 128 

burners, for polishing 149 

copper 'ware, for 137 

scouring with 141 

sinks, cleaning 146 

tins, scouring 138 

cold sponge 444 

water 646 

dally, babies, for 676 

foot 445 

hot-air 445 

mustard 445 

Bussian ! 445 

tub, painting 442 

warm sponge, sleeplessness, pre- 
venting 152-153 

Bathers, don'ts for 443 

Bathing 440 

health In 646 

outdoor 444 

water supply for 112 

Bathroom 67, 442 

cement for 67 

cleaning the 268 

conveniences for 442 

gas water heater 87 

painting the 268 

paper, for waterproof oilcloth 37 

salt-water 445 

sea 444 

slippers, twine, from 77 

soap bags for 198 

sponge 646 

stool 445 

temperature of 443 

the 438 

tile for 67 

Baths 440 

cabinet 445 

cold, skin, for hardening the 439 

foot 445 

kinds ot 444 

warm, retiring, before 150 

Battenberg lace, laundry, prepara- 
tion for the 212 

Bay rum 500 

chemical soap, in 162 

compounding 500 

Bayberry soap 451 

Beans, ashpan, baking in 127 

dry, storing 607 

green, storing 607 

Beard, care of the 496 

Bearings, bronze 'for 391 

Beater, carpet, blankets, for 218 

Beauty doctors 446 

Bed, baby, for 674 

covers 62 

eiderdown for 63 

feather, airing 147 

infant's ...., 67 

Morris chair as 67 

sick room, for 663 

separate, individual 58 

wool for 63 

Bedbug, exterminating 312 

the 313 

Bedbugs, enemies of 313-314 

keeping down 313 

' poisons for 313 

Bedding 62 

house cleaning, when 266 

storage of 268, 309 

Bedroom, curtains for 45 

ornaments 268 

. ware 147 

Bedrooms 61 

cleaning 266 

colors, light and delicate, for 36 

cooling 147 

curtains for 61 



PAOB 

Bedrooms, decorations tor 62 

furniture for 61-62 

ventilation of 58, 60 

wall coverings for 61 

woodwork for 61 

Beds 61, 62 

airing 146 

brass 61-62 

enameled, renovating 62 

feather, care of 267 

use of 63 

feathers for 63 

folding 67 

accident from, preventing 67 

iron 61-62 

making up 147 

metal, renovating 266 

warming 150 

Bedspreads 63 

dimity 63 

dotted muslin 63 

hose, for rinsing 218 

lace curtains for 63 

net 63 

washing 218 

Bed springs 62 

box spring 62 

wash, house cleaning, when 266 

Bedstead, old-fashioned, utilization of 52 

wash, house cleaning, when 266 

Bedsteads, brass, introduction of 58 

cord, old-fashion«d 62 

iron, introduction of 58 

slat, old-fashioned 62 

wooden, discarding of 58 

Beef, corned, improving 593 

gall, cleansing mixture 161 

green tints, for brightening 208 

purple, for brightening 208 

soap from 198 

yellow, for brightening 208 

pickle for 592 

potted 599 

presses 600 

sausage 598 

scraped, invalids, for 668 

suet, soap making, suitable for 189 

tallow, harness, for 418 

tea. Invalid diet 665 

Beer, blacking, paste tor 424 

cold, furniture, for cleaning 382 

lager, woolen goods, sponging 176 

stale, gloves, wash-leather coloring. 178 

Bees, sting of 655 

Beeswax, alcohol, cutting with 381 

amber varnish, In 367 

bed ticking, for 267 

candles, for 107 

cement, for 344 

coloring 546 

electrotyping, in 404 

English bar soap, in 196 

floors, for 256-274 

furniture, for polishing 381 

scratches, removal of 288 

hands, for chapped 455 

harness, for 418,425 

for waterproofing 425 

imitation of 546 

ink, for metal label 431 

for printer's 432 

leather, for waterproofing 421 

in waterproofing 423 

paste for furniture 382 

plaster-of-Parls cement, in 347 

preparation of 545 

refining 546 

sealing wax, for soft 375 

shoe strings, for 420 

silks, when storing 310 

starch, prevent sticking 227 



682 



INDEX 



PAOB 

Beeswax, ticks, tor pillow 50 

whitening 546 

woolen goods, when packing 310 

Beetle, carpet 310 

Beets, pickled 581 

preserving 605 

Belladonna, poisoning from 650 

Bell metal 395 

Bellows water for clarifying 116 

Bells, bronze, of 390 

house, bronze for 391 

Belts, leather, cement Cor 349 

Bench, carpenter's, workroom, for the 334 

Bengal chutney 577 

Benzine, alcohol, with 159 

alkaline hard soap, tor 196 

soft soap, for 196 

burning, putting out 91 

carpet beetles, for destroying 311 

fleas, for destroying 314 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

grease, removal of, from silk 170 

insect bites, tor 655 

kid gloves, for cleaning 179 

white, for 420 

moths, for destroying 306 

nature of 160 

paint dissolved by 164 

removal of 278 

thinner for 353 

petroleum, see. 

rubber cement, for 345 

silk, use of, for 170 

silver, for cleaning 145, 413 

spots, wax floors, removal from 256 

stains, removal of 170 

stove polish, in 129 

uses of 160 

velvet, cleaning 172 

wash, vermin, for 310 

wounds, for cleansing 648 

Benzoic acid, bronzing fluid, aniline. . 402 

lavender water, for 481 

Benzoin, bookbinder's varnish, in 373 

complexion, for the 463-464 

freckles, for 463 

leather, in waterprooflng 423 

sealing wax, for perfuming 376 

tincture of, perfumes, for 476 

toilet water, for 481 

Benzol, asphalt dissolved by 367 

Bergamot, oil of, almond creams, in.. 467 

Florida water, for 482 

perfumes, for 476 

sachet, for 477 

toilet water, for 481 

Berries, canning 554 

Berry stains, treatment of 164 

Bias folds, cutting 249 

Bicarbonate of lime, water, for clari- 
fying 116 

Bin, cellar, for 263 

Binding, skirt 243 

Bindings, calf, restoration of 71 

skirt, for 243 

Bins, cellar 263 

Biscuits, gum-gluten, invalids, for.... 668 

Bismuth, nature of 398 

skin, blackens the 460 

BUbnitrate of 398 

test for 405 

wicks, for candle 107 

Bites, dog 655 

insect, remedy for 648 

mosquito, cure for 326 

preventing 325 

snake 655 

Bitter almonds, freckles, for 463 

Bittersweet, poisoning from 650 

Bitumen, petroleum, see. 

Bituminous (or soft) coal, fuel, as 81 



PAGE 

Black ants 319 

asphalt varnish 368 

bottle wax 560 

cement ^•" 350 

colors, flxing 210 

coloring and waterprooflng 94 

dye, harness, for 425 

faded, reviving 176 

gloves, renovating 429 

goods, cleaning 176 

wheat bran for 246 

grain side, leather 417 

hair dye 494 

Hole of Calcutta 58 

ink, making 426 

kid, color, restoring, of 420 

lace, sponging 213 

washing 213 

lead, grates, for cleaning 297 

hearth, for blackening 130 

lubricator as 377 

stove polish, in 128 

zinc, for bronzing 401 

leather, for 417 

paint 364 

lampblack in 364 

sealing wax 375 

silk 171 

cleaning 171 

Blackboard, library, for the 69 

Blackboards, paint for 361-362 

Blackened walls, renovating 284 

Blackheads, nature of 439 

Blacking, gas range 131 

leather 423 

liquid 424 

making 424 

paste, nature of 423 

stove 128 

yellow soap, with 199 

zinc, in bronzing 401 

Blacksmiths, soap for 195 

Blades, long, scissors 239 

Blanket, curtains, spreading on 214 

table pad, for 73 

Blankets, beating 218 

carpet beater for 218 

cotton 266 

factory made 65 

heavy, rubbing 203 

hanging out 220 

horse, potato juice, cleaning with... 223 

hose for rinsing 218 

ironing 230 

old, mending 268 

quilts, for 65 

sick room, for 663 

washing 218 

wool 63 

Bleached linen sheets 63 

Bleaching 181 

agent, chlorine 169 

animal fibers 181 

Dutch process of 182 

linen 182 

lactic acid for 157 

powder 181 

ink, removal of 166 

Ink stains, for 160 

uses of 159 

sal soda, with 183 

vegetable fibers 181 

Bleeding, internal 654 

treatment of 656-657 

Blood, absorbents for 159 

loss of, fainting from 661 

stains, cornstarch for 159 

linen, on 169 

Bloomers, house cleaning, for 261 

.Blotters, kitchen, in the 76 

Blotting-pad rings '.. 560 



INDEX 



683 



PAGE 

Blotting paper, absorbent 159 

grease, carpets, removal from 271 

floors, removal from 271 

removal of 69 

wall paper, removal from 283 

laces, for drying 230 

Blouses, flannel, washing 216 

Blow, candy making, in 519 

Blower, grate, for 88 

Blowpipe, white lead, for testing 392 

Blue, candy, coloring 541 

dining room, for sunny 36 

dull shades, rooms, toning down, for 

south 36 

fixing 210 

grayish, dining room, for sunny 36 

ink 430 

making 430 

laundry, gold lace, cleaning 173 

leather, dyeing 417 

light, light absorbs 36 

linen dress, uses of 247 

paint 363 

Prussian blue In 363 

sealing wax 375 

vitriol, gilding, for coloring 410 

ink In 427 

poisoning from 651 

wash, ceilings, for 280 

walls, for 280 

Bluing 222 

clothes 222 

lace, in cleaning 213 

making 222 

mirrors, tor cleaning 286 

recipes for 222 

sheepskin rugs, tor 273 

silk stockings, in washing 215 

starch, in 222 

water, feathers, for cleaning 179 

muslin unbleached, bleaching 185 

sheeting, for bleaching 183 

silk, tor bleaching 172 

white goods, for bleaching 185 

wool, for bleaching 183 

whitewash. In 279 

wool, for 216 

Board, ironing, arrangement of 227 

covers tor 227 

hanging up 227 

measure 618 

skirt 236 

sleeve 236 

Bobbinet, curtains, tor 45 

Boiler, collapse, prevention of 113 

emptying 113 

laundry, for 200 

the 200 

Boilers, cleaning 264 

copper, cement tor mending 350 

cleaning 137 

tin cans as 78 

wash, cleaning 138 

Boiling clothes 202,203 

water 115 

Bole, brown paint, in 364 

glue size, in 339 

tooth powder 606 

Bologna sausage 597 

Bolster cases, making 64 

Bolts, copper for 389 

Bonbon fondant 523 

Bonbons 617, 526 

almond 627 

cocoanut strawberry 627 

Jelly cream 527 

maple 527 

vanilla cream ....■ 526 

Bone black, nature of 423 

stove polish, in 128 

Bones, broken, treatment of 658 



PAon 

Bones, glue from 337 

Bonfires 106 

antimony in 106 

camphor in 106 

making 106 

saltpeter in 106 

sulphur In 106 

Bookbinders' varnish 373 

Bookbinding, glue, flexible, for 341 

Bookbindings, freshening 71 

Book, commonplace 72 

pages, mending when torn 71 

receipt, covering , 77 

homemade 77 

Bookcases, front room, tor 52 

Books, care of 69 

catalogue of 71 

classifying 639 

cleaning 70 

edges of, gilding for 412 

grease on 69 

handling 71 

insect pests of 69 

library, for the .68 

list of 71 

oil on 69 

packing 301 

paste for 339 

preventing mold 69 

Boots, care of 418, 419 

cleaning 419 

creaking, to stop 419 

kid, care of 420 

oiling 421 

preservation of 418 

rubber, drying 421 

see shoes 418 

Boracic acid, complexion, for the 46? 

mucilage, tor preserving 341 

Borax, ants, for 320 

bedspreads, in washing 218 

bedstead, tor washing -2661 

blacking, for 424 

blankets, tor washing 218 

burned, copper, for whitening 390 

carpets, for cleaning 27G 

moths, protecting from 307 

chemical soap, In 162 

cleansing mixture 161 

cloth, fireproofing 92 

cold cream, for 470 

colors, for fixing 210 

comforters, in washing 218 

complexion, for the 464 

copper castings, for improving 389 

ware, for 137 

discolored silver, tor cleaning 143 

dishwashing, for 133 

electrotypes, for 389 

fabrics, fireproofing 92 

face, for the 447 

feathers, for purifying 267 

fires, for putting out 91 

prevention of 92 

freckles, for 463 

fur skins, for tanning 416 

gloss, removal of 176 

gold bronze, for 403 

hands, for the 454 

bard soap, for 193 

water, for softening 115, 204 

ink, in marking 42& 

iron, for welding 386 

laces, washing 211 

matting, for cleaning 273 

metal cement, in 343 

mildew, removing from linen 167 

moths, for 308 

nickel, for cleaning 29S 

paint, dryer for 360 

pimples, for 44C 



684 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Borax, plaster of Paris, with 435 

rouge, for 473 

satin, for cleaning 172 

scarlet, for fixing 211 

shellac varnish, in 369 

silk, in washing 215 

soap 449 

for increasing 194 

sponges, for cleaning 448 

starch, with 224 

sunburn, for 465 

tan shoes, for 421 

teeth, for the 607 

washing fluid, in 205-206-207 

water, black lace, for sponging 213 

burner, gas range 131 

wicks, for candle 107 

yellow soap, with 199 

Bordeaux mixture, spraying with 327 

Border, ceiling, on edge of 38 

decorative, stencil for 46 

Borders, carpet 43 

stenciled 38 

Boric acid, antiseptic 647 

Botanical mucilage 340 

Bottle, common, babies, for feeding.. 674 

hot- water, mending a 345 

wax 344, 546 

Bottles, cleaning 140 

glass, ink for marking 428 

hot- water, beds, warming 150 

musty, sweetening 140 

nursing, cleaning 674 

Boulet, candy making, in 519 

Box, clothes hamper, as 154 

cooling 121 

fire, cleaning 124 

Boxes, capacity of 620, 621 

cereal 78 

empty, uses for 335 

lath, fruit, for 609 

Boxwood shavings, silver, for cleaning 413 

Boys' clothes, mending 242 

trousers, mending 242 

Braid straw, bleaching 184 

Bran bath 445 

colored goods, to wash 211 

furs, for cleaning 309 

garments, for cleansing delicate 208 

hands, for the 454 

moth patches, for 440 

muffins, invalids, for 668 

sheepskin, for tanning 417 

shoe trees, for 419 

shoes, for drying 418 

silk, for bleaching 184 

for washing 215 

tea, invalids, for 670 

water, scarlet cloth, for cleaning 177 

silk stockings, for 216 

starch, instead of 225 

wheat, calico, black, for 210 

white paint, tor cleaning 278 

woolens, for washing 217 

Brandy, Armenian cement, for 342 

leather varnish. In 372 

poison, antidote for 650 

silk, for cleaning 171 

Brass 389 

beds ;...61, 62 

black dip, for 401 

brads. Ironware, for mending 387 

bronzing, for 401 

canker, detection of 559 

cleaning 293, 299 

fittings, cleaning 128 

furniture, cleaning 291 

gold, coloring for 401 

plating 405 

Inlaid work, cleaning 291 

kettle, carpets, in dyeing 43 



PASB 

Brass, lacquer for 370 

nature of 390 

plating 405 

polishing 300 

solder 394 

tarnishing, to prevent 293 

tinning 399 

whitening 401 

zinc, alloy of 396 

zincking 400 

Brazil wood, ink, for red 429 

rouge, for 473 

Brazing 400 

solder 390 

Bread cloths, tablecloths, old, from. . 233 

crumbs, lace, for cleaning 173 

gold lace, cleaning 173 

lace, for cleaning 173 

raising, gluten, for 337 

stale, bindings, for freshening 71 

books, for cleaning 70 

bric-a-brac, for cleaning 291 

toasted, silk, removal of wax from. 171 

wall paper, tor cleaning 283 

Breath, the 510 

Breathing, carbon dioxygen 104 

monoxide Ill 

carbonic-acid gas 104, 111 

lamps, night 104 

oxygen necessary in 58 

sleep, in 150 

smoke 104 

soot 104 

Bric-a-brac, cleaning 291, 292 

colored copal varnish for 371 

unfashionable 34 

Brick color, paint, mixing 364 

dust, iireproof paint, for 361 

scouring with 141 

tinware, for 138 

painting, specifications for 357 

red, beds, warming 150 

walks, cleaning 295 

work, cleaning 292 

cost of 619 

measuring 619 

Bricks, wash for 280 

Bright colors, unfashionable 34 

Brilllantine 501 

Brimstone, ants, for exterminating... 319 

safety matches, for 437 

silk, for bleaching 172 

steel, for melting 387 

woolen goods, for bleaching 183 

Brine, onions, pickling with 578 

stone walks, for cleaning 295 

Britannia metal, test for 405 

ware, cleaning 145 

nature of 398 

solder for 394 

Broiling, gas stove, for 132 

Broken bones, treatment of 658 

Bronze, age of 390 

aluminum 391, 337 

brown shades 402 

cheap gold 402 

cleaning 294 

coin. United States 641 

color, paint, mixing 364 

dark shades 402 

denatured alcohol, use of, for 110 

gold 402 

cheap 402 

green, coloring for 401 

gun barrels 40J 

ink 430 

preparation for 430 

Iron color 402 

manganese 391 

medals 403 

nature of 



INDEX 



685 



FAOB 

Bronze paint. Iron, for .■ 402 

phosphor 391 

plaster casts, for 402 

powder 402 

bronze paint. In 402 

molding, in regilding 412 

plaster casts, for bronzing 402 

pure gold 402 

red 402 

silver 397, 402 

white 402 

tempering 391 

Bronzes, art, zinc, from 401 

cleaning 291 

Bronzing fluid, aniline 402 

leather 403 

metals 401 

Broom, brush, sprinkling, for 222 

rats and mice, protecting from 252 

soapsuds, rinsing in 251 

sweeping with a 250 

Brooms, care of 251 

selecting 251 

Broth, chicken, invalids, for 666 

Brown, dyeing 43 

hair dye 494 

light, absorbs 36 

cleaning 17 

linen dress, uses of 247 

paint 364 

umber in 364 

paper, absorbent, as an 169 

cellars, for 262 

grease, removal of 159 

wax stains, for 165 

russet, living room, for the 36 

Bruises, black and blue 653 

furniture, removal from 288 

hot water for 653 

treating 653 

Brush, bristle, house cleaning, when.. 266 

flesh, sleeplessness, preventing 153 

glassware, tor polishing 140 

hair, cleaning 485 

walls, for dusting 283 

nail, fabrics, for delicate 208 

scrubbing, for 134 

vegetable, linens, for coarser 208 

washing 485 

wood carving, for polishing 382 

Brushes, camel's-hair, spots, for 156 

stains, for 156 

care of 360 

hair, care of 484 

paint, care of 360 

cleaning 360 

preservation of 360 

scrubbing, men's clothes, for clean- 
ing 174 

shoes, for 419 

soapsuds, for cleaning 360 

Brussels carpet 39 

wearing qualities, excellent 43 

Buckwheat coal for banking flres 82 

furnace flres, banking 127 

Buff cleaning 177 

color, paint, mixing 364 

" Buffalo bugs" 310 

Building paper, cellars, for 262 

Buildings, outside of, cement for 346 

Bulkheads, tar varnish for 372 

Bunsen burner, alcohol lamp, like 110 

Burdock, rat holes, for 316 

Bureau drawers, linen, for 231 

lubricator for 378 

yellow soap for 199 

scarfs 67 

sewing room, in the 235 

Burglar-proof lock 286 

Burlap, draperies, for 48 

drawn rugs, for 44 



FAQB 

Burlap, fading of 56 

halls, for outer 38 

packing, for 300 

sacks, pillows, covering 50 

screens, for 49 

wall covering, as 38 

Burner, Argand, for gas 97 

bat- wing, gas 97 

boiling 102 

Bunsen, gas 97 

draught, keep clear of 102 

fish-tail, for gas 97 

flat flame, gas consumed by 96 

lamps, of central draught 103 

Welsbach 100 

for gas 97 

gas consumed by 96 

Burners, care of 131, 149 

extra, buying r 148 

gas 97 

sizes of 97 

three kinds 97 

Burning garments, extinguishing 89 

hands, sensation of 452 

Burnishing powder 294 

Burns, linseed oil for 454 

treatment of 656 

yellow soap for 199 

Burnt almonds, glazing 536 

sienna, mahogany, tor imitating 274 

steel, restoration of 388 

Bust form 240 

sewing room, in the 240 

Butter, mold, removal from linen 163 

skin, for relaxed 440 

storeroom for 79 

tea stains, for 168 

unsalted, hands, for chapped 455 

lips, for chapped 473 

Buttercups ; 528 

Buttermilk, acid principle of 157 

bleaching, for 182 

copper, cleaning 139 

freckles, for 462 

glass, cleaning fine 140 

mildew, for 157 

oilcloth, for 268 

skin, for the 463 

sleeplessness, preventing 153 

sour, wine stains, removal from 

linen 169 

stubborn stains, for 157 

table oilcloth, for washing 259 

tarnished silver, polishing 144 

white goods, for bleaching 185 

Butterscotch 517, 529 

Button bags 237 

sewing room, for the 237 

Buttonhole scissors 239 

Buttons, box for 234 

Cabbage, odors of, removing 135 

pickled 678 

storing 606 

worms, kerosene emulsion for 329 

Cabinet baths 445 

china, dining room, for 73 

kitchen 79 

music 64 

work, copal varnish for 370 

painting 360 

Calcimine 363 

preparation of 280 

walls, for 36 

zinc, native ore of 390 

Calcimined walls, cleaning 284 

Calcimining, cost of 615 

shellac for 369 

Calcium carbide, acetylene gas, for. 99-100 
chloride, fires, putting out 91 

Calcutta, Black Hole of SS 



686 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Calendar, the 640 

Calico bag, ironing board, for 227 

black, potato starch, for 210 

crazy quilts, pieces for 66 

glazed, rooms, darkening...' 147 

quilts, protecting 66 

Calicoes, alum for 210 

doing up 224 

quilts, pieces for 65 

starching 225 

washing 210 

careful 209 

Calomel, nature of 398 

Cambric, soap, should not be rubbed 

with 208 

Cambrics, salt for 208 

washing 208 

careful 209 

Camp catsup 585 

vinegar 570 

Campaign, house cleaning, plan of, for 260 

Camphor, anime varnish, in 368 

ants, for exterminating 319 

aromatic vinegar, for 471 

blacking, for 424 

bonfires, for 106 

bruises, for 653 

candles, for 107 

chapped hands, remedy for 455 

chemical soap, in 162 

chloroform, dissolved by 169 

cockroaches, for destroying 312 

copal varnish, in 370 

freckles, for 463 

furniture, for cleaning 287 

glass, in cutting 434 

gum, cleansing mixture 161 

laundry, in the 204 

mosquitoes, for repelling 326 

silver, for cleaning 145 

hands, for the 453 

ice 455 

Insect bites for 655 

Iron, for softening 385 

lubricator, as a 377 

metals, rust, protecting from 298 

mold, prevention of 72 

mosquito bites, for curing 326 

moths, for destroying 307-308 

for preventing 305, 308 

oil, complexion, for the 464 

sealing wax, in 374 

shoes, in waterproofing 422 

soap 450 

spirits of, medicine ease, in 649 

sunburn lotions, for 465 

test tor 475 

varnish, in 372 

washing fiuid, in 207 

wrinkles, for 440 

Camphorated spirits^ mosquito bites, 

for preventing 326 

Can, kerosene oil, for 148 

openers, rack for 75 

Canada balsam 371 

turpentine varnish 371 

Candied fruits 517, 632 

Candies 515 

cream 524 

kinds of 516 

Candle, air current, determining di- 
rection of 60 

blowing out 109 

frames, how made 106-108 

making 106 

value, educational 106 

molds, how made 106-105 

shades, asbestos protection of 130 

wicks 107 

preparation of 107 

Candles 106 



PAGE 

Candles, alcohol, cleaning with 109 

bedtime 106 

bleaching 109 

carrying 109 

cost per hour 94-95 

decorative purposes, for 106 

dipping 108 

dripping, preventing from 109 

health, effect on 94-95 

lard 107 

lighting 109 

molding 108 

rolling 108 

tables, on lunch and dinner 106 

tallow 107 

moths, repellent for 306 

waxed floors, for polishing 256 

wax, imitation of 109 

Candlesticks 109 

cleaning 145 

decoration, for 109 

presents, for 109 

Candy, boiling sirup for 517 

colorings for 540 

drops 531-532 

flavorings for 542 

Ingredients for 516 

kinds of, degrees for 517 

making B15 

utensils for 515 

maple sirup 530 

measurements for 516 

molasses 517 

pulling 528 

rock 531 

freckles, for 462 

sugar, chapped lips, for 474 

twist 530 

Cane chairs, cleaning 289 

renovation of 289 

Canker, preserves, in 559 

Canned fruit, market, packing for 543 

goods, price, fixing, on 549 

storeroom for 79 

Canning 547 

fruit 553 

utensils for 548 

materials for 551 

methods of 552 

process of 551 

Cannon, bronze for 391 

bronze, of 390 

Cans, baking powder 78 

cocoa 78 

garbage, galvanized iron, of 146 

milk 135 

tin 78 

tomato, footstools, for 49 

Canvas, box for 235 

collars, old, for 247 

drawn rugs, for 44 

filters, for 117 

flreproofing 93 

paint for 354 

shoes, white, cleaning 420 

stains, removal of 160 

stove holders, for 129 

tents, waterproofing M 

waterproofing 93 

Caoutchouc 338 

nature of 338 

Capacity, measures of 617, 643 

comparison of 623 

Caramel, the sgo 

Caramels 517, 53G 

Carat weight 625 

Caraway, sachet, for 477 

Carbolic acid, ant nests, tor destroying 320 

cockroaches, for destroying 312 

disinfecting 145 

flies, for 312 



INDEX 



687 



PAGE 

Carbolic acid, hands, for the 464 

Inlt, in 427 

moid, for preventing in 432 

Iodine stains, prevention of 165 

medicine case, solution in 649 

mosquito bites, for curing 326 

prevention of 326 

moths, repellent for 306 

mucilage, for preserving 341 

pastes, for preserving ' 339 

poisoning from 660 

soap 451 

soap, ants, for exterminating 319 

Carbon dioxide (see carbonic-acid gas) 

dioxygen, breathing, in 104 

indelible Ink, in 165 

kerosene, In 104 

lamps, in 104 

monoxide, breathing of lU 

paper, linen, for stamping 232 

steel, in 385 

sulphide of, amber cement, in 344 

Carbonate of ammonia, smelling salts 158 

of copper, poisons, as 139 

of iron, test for 115 

of lead, Eulphureted hydrogen, test 

for 59 

wood, for gilding on 410 

of soda, bleaching wool, for 183 

chalk, for prepared 436 

Carbonic acid, poisoning from 651 

gas, atmosphere in 69 

breathing in 104 

necessary in 58 

of Ill 

fires, for extinguishing 89 

gas stoves, from 85 

limewater, testing 69 

oil stoves, from 85 

soda, from 89 

sulphuric acid, from 89 

Cardboard, fringe, for mending 242 

Carmine lake, ink, for red 430 

red paint, for 363 

rouge, for 472 

varnish, ceruse, for making 371 

Carnation color, paint, mixing 364 

Carpet beater, blankets, for 218 

beetle 310 

ingrain 39 

lining, table pad, for 73 

linings, oilcloth, under 40 

pattern, matching 44 

rag 43 

mending 269 

rags 43 

denim 42 

preparation of 43 

storing 43 

stretching 269 

sweeper 260 

care of 252 

toy 262 

sweepers, dust, for preventing 254 

Carpeting rooms, cost of 615 

Carpets, beating 269-270 

buffalo moths feed on 310 

choosing 43 

cleaning 270 

custom in use of 41 

cutting 44 

dusting 251 

faded, freshening 255, 270 

fleas, favor 314 

freshening 255 

grease, to remove, from 271 

hardwood floors, replaced by 34 

laying 269 

moths, to protect from 307 

old, mats, for door 80 

patching 273 



PAGE 

Carpets, patterns, small, in 43 

prevention of weat :... 269 

rag, cleaning 271 

rugs, replaced by 34 

sewing 44 

stair 273 

prevention of wear 269 

sweeping 269 

taking up 268 

wear, preventing 269 

Carriage bodies, varnish for 425 

robes, cleaning With 223 

Carriages, painting 360 

Cart, child's, clothes, for 220 

clothes basket, for 219 

Cartridge paper, hanging 282 

living rooms, for 37 

walls, for 36 

Carving, imitation of 34 

wood, polishing 382 

Caseharden, iron 385 

steel 385 

Casein cement 344 

lime paint, in 361 

Cases, intestine, sausage, for 596 

pillow, filling 64 

Cashmere, renovating 246 

shawls, washing 217 

washing 216 

Cask, sour, sweetening a 262 

Casks, care of 262 

cement for 346 

measurements of 623 

Cassia, linen, for preserving 232 

sachet, for 477 

Cast iron, aluminum for 397 

chips of 388 

copperplating 400 

tempering 386 

varnish tor 369 

Castile soap 198 

almond paste, for 469 

preparations, in 466 

blacking, for 424 

chemical soap, in 162 

cleansing mixture, in 161 

furniture, in paste for 382 

for polishing 381 

fur skins, for tanning 416 

glove cleaner 178 

hands, for the 453 

kid gloves, for 178 

for cleaning 179 

lace, for cleaning 213 

plaster of Paris, for hardening ... 436 

silk, for cleaning 171 

silks, for washing 215 

silver, for cleaning 413 

starch with 224 

sunburn lotions, in 465 

teeth, for the 607 

walls, for damp 284 

Castings, cement for mending ........ 348 

copper, improvement of 389 

solder for 386 

Castor beans, mosquitoes, for repelling 326 

oil, collodion cement, in 350 

harness, for 418,425 

kid boots, for 420 

poison, antidote for 660 

shoes, for 419-421 

Catalogue, book 71 

Catarrh, ventilation, poor, caused by. 59 

Cats, fleas on 315 

Catsup, currant 583 

tomato 582 

Cattle, weight of 626 

Cauliflower 607 

pickled 679 

Caustic lime, water, for clarifying.... 116 
lye, enameled ware, for ....,., 137 



688 



INDEX 



PAOE 

Caustic potash, drip trays, washing . . 131 

linen, for bleaching 182 

plaster of Paris, for hardening ... 436 

refrigeration, for 122 

soap, for soft 449 

taste, removal of woody 136 

soda, almond soap, in 449 

axle grease, in 378 

hard soap from 195 

linen, for bleaching 182 

lye, soap from 197 

washing fluid 205 

sealing wax, tor white 375 

Caution, washing, in 204 

Cautions, acids, in use of 156 

irons, care of 227 

lamps, when buying 104 

silver, polishing, in 143 

woolen goods, for 216 

Cayenne pepper, mouse holes, for 316 

vinegar 569 

Cedar chests, moths, repellent for 306 

oil of, moid, prevention of 69 

sachet, for 477 

wood, moths, for repelling 307 

Ceiling, discoloration of, preventing ,. 98 

Ceilings 37 

blue wash for 280 

calclmined 38 

paper, hung with" 37-38 

treatment of 37 

whitewashed 38 

Celery, keeping 604 

Cellars, bins tor 263 

cleaning 261 

dampness in 262 

disinfecting 263 

dust in 263 

vegetable 262, 604 

ventilation of 262 

warm, keeping 262 

whitewash for 263 

Cellulose, fibers, vegetable, contain 

163, 181 

Cement 342 

acid-proof 350 

Armenian 342 

asphalt used in 367 

bathroom floor, for 67 

casein 344 

collodion 350 

colored 350 

compound 349 

construction, rat -proof 318 

coppersmith's 350 

diamond 342 

flour 339 

making 339 

glass, for 349 

gum-arabic 340 

ironware 347 

Japanese 339 

rice, book pages, for torn 71 

leather 349 

litharge 347 

plaster of Paris 347 

rat holes, for 318 

rosin 343, 344 

rubber 345 

for mending 421 

use of 338 

waterproof, cellars, for 262 

kitchen walls, for 74 

white of egg 344 

wood 349 

Cements, rosin, use of, in 366 

Centerpieces, embroidered 233 

Center table 53 

Centipede, house 311 

Cereal boxes, uses of 78, 335 

diet 646 



PAGI 

Cesspool 113 

drainage from sinks, for 75 

waste pipes 146 

Cesspools, bacteria in 253 

kerosene for mosquitoes in 325 

Chafing dish, packing a 303 

dishes, denatured alcohol, heated 

with m 

Chain, gold, cleaning 433 

Chair cushions 50 

rail, dado, with 38 

wall, for tinted 39 

Chairs 53 

cane, cleaning 289 

renovation of 289 

selection of 53 

wicker 63 

willow 53 

Chalk, absorbent, as an 159 

cement, in compound 349 

French, grease, removal of, from silk 170 

kid gloves, polishing 179 

oil stains, for 173 

woolen cloth, for dry-cleaning 177 

gilding size, for 411 

hard water, for softening 204 

Ivory, for bleaching 142 

mildew, for 159 

removal of, from linen 168 

poison, antidote for 650 

powdered, mildew, removal of 164 

prepared, books, for 69 

burnishing powder, in 294 

calcimine, in 353 

making' 486 

scouring mixture, in 162 

silver, cleaning 145 

for polishing 143 

teeth, for the 506 

white paint, for 362 

sheepskins, for tanning 417 

stone varnish, in 372 

Chamber work 146 

Chambers, cleaning 266 

Chambray, pillows, covering 50 

Chamois, alabaster, for polishing 436 

brass fittings, for polishing 128 

for polishing 300 

cleaning 179 

dry, tinware, polishing 138 

furniture, for polishing 381 

gilt frames, for wiping 290 

glassware, polishing 141 

Ivory, for polishing 434 

leather, duster, as 254 

mirrors, for cleaning 286 

paint, tor cleaning 277 

sealing wax, for polishing 375 

silver, for polishing 143 

protecting 142 

skin, furniture, for 287 

windows, for cleaning 284 

Chandelier, cleaning 292 

Chapped hands 454 

camphor for 455 

remedies for 455 

lips 473 

preparations for 473 

Charcoal 126 

animal, lacquer, for transparent 407 

nature of 423 

black paint, in 364 

earthenware, cleaning 138 

filters, for 117 

fish oil, for purifying 377 

green paint, in 363 

gutta percha, for cleaning 296 

ice box, for 121 

iron, for drawing temper of 385 

kindling, as 126-127 

musty bottles, sweetening 141 



INDEX 



689 



PAGE 

Charcoal, odors, for killing 131 

removal of 135, 310 

refrigerators, for 122 

silver, for melting 412 

tooth powder 506 

water, purifying 115 

Cheap quilts 65 

Cheese, rat traps, bait for 317 

cloth, bedroom curtains, for 46 

blankets, for mending 268 

dishcloth, as 136 

draughts, for preventing 60 

dusting, for 254 

quilts, for 65 

for protecting 66 

Chemical Are extinguishers 90 

soap 162 

Chemicals, fires, to extinguish 89 

Chemistry of lamps 103 

Chenille Axminster carpet 39 

Cherries, pickled 681 

Cherry preserves 566 

Chest, bleeding of 655 

ice, making 121 

of tools, workroom, for the 334 

wounded 647 

Chestnut coal, economical, most 127 

color, paint, mixing 364 

Chests, linen, for 231 

Chicken, broiled, invalids, for 667 

broth, invalids, for 666 

creamed, invalids, for 667 

feathers 63 

wings, fire box, brushing out 124 

Chiffon, complexion, for preserving the 447 

Children, bed for, separate 58 

surroundings of 33 

teeth of 503 

young, hot-weather care of 672 

Chill vinegar 569 

Chimney lamp, wrong 102 

smoky, curing a 87 

soot, cleaning out 88 

turn cap on 88 

wind shield on 88 

Chimneys 87 

breaking of 103 

cleaning 88 

dampness, prevention of 87 

extra, buying 148 

fires, to put out 88 

gas, light from, loss of 97 

lamp 102 

breaking of •... 103 

prevention of 149 

care of 149 

cleaning 148 

draught of 102 

fit of 102 

object of 102 

polishing 148 

shape of 102 

leaks, stopping 88 

object of 87 

selection of 103 

smoky, preventing 87 

soot, prevention of 87 

ventilating 87 

ventilators, as 87,263 

water cement for 87 

zinc, cleaning with 88 

China 73 

cabinet, dishwashing, for 133 

cement for 347 

cleaning 145 

closet 73 

egg, darning ball, as 244 

gilding for 410 

removal of 410 

gum-arabic cement for 340 

Jsinglass for 342 



PAGE 

China, mending 350 

packing 300 

repairing 138 

sealing wax for 343 

selection of 73 

shellac cement for 343 

silk, washing 215 

size, for gilding on 410 

washing 133 

Chinese cement, shellac in 343 

lanterns 106 

sand in 105 

Chintz, bran for 211 

washing, careful 209 

Chloral, poisoning from 650 

Chloride, ink, in logwood 427 

of gold, gold-plating, f qr 404 

ivory, for gilding ...'. 411 

of lime, books, for ink stains on . . . 70 

discolored silver, for cleaning 143 

enameled ware, for 137 

flsh oil, putrid, purifying 377 

hands, stains, removal from 453 

ink eraser, as 70 

stains, white goods, removal 

from 433 

kerosene oil, purifying 102 

linen, for bleaching 182 

mildew, removal of 164 

mold, walls, removal from 284 

prints, cleaning 70 

removal of odors 135 

silver, ink, removal from 144 

sinks, cleaning 75,145 

straw, for bleaching 184 

tea and coffee stains, for 163 

water, for clarifying 116 

wicks, for candle 107 

wine stains, removal of 169 

of potash, javelle water 160 

matches, in packing 437 

safety matches, for 436 

of silver, silvering, for 413 

of soda, wine stains, for 173 

Chlorinated soda, vaseline stains, for 164 

Chlorine, aluminum corroded by 397 

bleaching agent, powerful 169 

for 182 

gas, bleaching agent 181 

gold dissolved by 408 

mildew, for 157 

soap with 451 

use of 159 

water, acid stains, on linen, re- 
moval of 167 

scorch, for removing 231 

tannin stains, removal of 167 

wool, for bleaching 183 

Chloroform, acid stains, to remove ... 168 

camphor dissolved by 159 

chemical soap, in 162 

colors, restoration of .' 123, 169, 172 

glove cleaners, in 178 

grease on silk, removal of :.. 170 

moths, for destroying 306 

old stains, for 169 

paint dissolved by 164 

for removing 278 

plush, reviving faded 172 

poisoning from 650 

rubber cement, for 345 

rugs, for cleaning 270 

uses of 159 

velvet, for cleaning 170 

tor reviving faded 172 

Chlorophyll, grass stain 163 

Chlorophyllan, grass stains, in 163 

tartaric acid, for 167 

Chocolate caramels 536 

cream bonbons 526 

candy 624 



690 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Chocolate creams 524 

coating for 524 

color, paint, mixing 364 

fondant 523 

ice, invalids, for 671 

icing 543 

kisses 537 

-walnuts 535 

Chops, French, invalids, for 668 

Chowchow 577 

Chrome, French polish, for coloring . . 379 

green, bronze paint, in 402 

making 363 

logwood ink 165 

making 427 

yellow, sealing wax, for 375 

Chutney, Bengal 577 

Cider vinegar 565 

filter for 117 

Cinchona bark, toothpowder 506 

Cinders, from large coal 82 

removal of, each morning 128 

Cinnabar, nature of 398 

Cinnamon, chemical soap, in 163 

drops 632 

linen, for preserving 232 

oil of, honey soap, for 449 

perfumes, for 476 

toilet water, for 481 

punch, invalids, for 669 

soap 450 

sugar, preparation of 542 

Circassian cream 473 

complexion, for the 473 

Circular measure 637 

Cistern filter 116 

light in 106 

tile, made of 116 

water, laundry, for 203 

Cisterns, compartments, built in two 116 

lead for lining 391 

measurements of 623 

screens for 325 

wooden, cement for 346 

Citric acid, books, for cleaning, and 

ink stains on 70 

ink stains, for 173 

saturated solution of 157 

solution, dilute, of 157 

use of 167 

Citron, essence of, perfumes, for 476 

pickled 582 

preserving 557 

soap 460 

Civet, linen, for preserving 232 

Clam broth. Invalids, for 663 

shell, kettles, scraping 137 

pot scraper, as 134 

shells, clinkers, removal of 128 

ClapboardlDg, cost of 614 

Clay, white, grease, for 170 

Cleaners, glove 178 

vacuum 254 

Cleaning refrigerator 122 

spring house 260 

stoves 123 

Cleansers, silver 144 

Cleansing mixtures 161 

Bilk, for 171 

Clematis, ice houses, for 120 

veranda, for 80 

Clinkers from large coal 82 

prevention of 128 

removal of 128 

Clocks, cleaning 2i)3 

oiling 293 

Closed stoves 85 

Closet, china 73 

clothes, substitute for 07 

economical 235 

laundry , , 155 



PAGE) 

Closet, linen 231 

sewing room, for 234 

shelves in 234 

unfinished garments, for 235 

Closets, cleaning 264 

dampness in 76 

Cloth, cement for 345 

cotton, bleaching 1S2 

rough wall, on 282 

dado, cotton or linen, for 38 

lace, for the 447 

fireproofing 92 

fomentations, for 660 

measure 613 

nap, raising, on 245 

paint for 362 

scarlet, cleaning 177 

silvering 413 

walls, for '• 36 

waterproofing 93, 369 

woolen, dry-cleaning 177 

Clothes, alkalies rot .' 205 

bluing 222 

boiling 202 

boys', mending 242 

dingy color of 220 

drying 219 

in bad weather 221 

hamper 154 

towels, for soiled 154 

hanger, barrel hoop as a 309 

hanging out 220 

hints 240 

men's, cleaning 173 

mending 242 

packing 302 

pressing 174, 175 

renovation of 175 

woolen, cleaning 175 

moth 304 

history of 304 

moths, protecting against 306 

packing 309 

rinsing 203 

rubbing 202-203 

soaking 203 

starching 222 

taking down 220, 229 

wringer, ironing, for 229 

wringing , 203 

Clotheshorse, clothes, for drying 221 

Clotheslines, care of 220 

gutta-percha 219 

kinks in, to avoid 220 

preservation of 219 

rope 219 

selection of 219 

washing 219 

Clothespin, window sashes, rattling, 

preventing 286 

Clothespins, apron lor 219 

bag for 21S 

basket for 219 

flour sack for 219 

handy, to have 219 

hot 219 

oilcloth bag for 219 

painting 219 

preservation of 219 

wooden 219 

Clothing, men's, chemical soap for 162 

Cloths, stoves, for polishing 129 

Clove pastilles 53a 

sugar, preparation of 542 

Cloves, lavender water, for 481 

linen, for preserving 232 

moths, repellent for 306 

oil of, cologne, for 476 

Florida water, tor 482 

mucilage, for preserving 341 

paste, library, In 339 



INDEX 



691 



PAGE 

Cloves, sachet, for 477 

Cluny lace, curtains, for 45 

Coal ashes, scouring with 137 

tins, scouring 133 

chunks of, kindling 124 

economy of 127 

(hard or soft), fuel, as 81 

furnace 127 

gas 95 

bard, kindling 124 

range 127 

saving 127 

scuttles, varnish for 369 

sizes of 81 

small sizes, use of 82 

stove, heating, for 85 

stoves, heating system, as 82 

tar, cellars, prevention of dampness 

in 262 

gas, by-products of 95 

Coating, chocolate creams, for 524 

Coats, men's, packing 302 

Cobs, kerosene, with, as kindling 126 

Cochineal, ink, for red 429 

rouge, for 472 

Cockroach, bedbugs, enemy of 314 

books, in 69 

common 311 

exterminating 311 

traps for 312 

Cocoa butter, cold cream, for 470 

cans 78 

uses of 78 

oil, fixed vegetable oil 376 

Cocoanut candies 535 

drops 532 

kisses 637 

maple bonbons 527 

marshmallow bonbons 527 

oil, marine soap, in 198, 450 

soap, in 198 

squares 535 

strawberry bonbons 527 

Cod fat 600 

liver oil, kerosene, for removing . . , 107 

stains 167 

ammonia for 158 

Coffee, black, laces, for tinting 230 

silk, for cleaning 171 

caramels 536 

cup, measurement by 630 

icing 644 

ink, thickening, preventing from 432 

mill, cleaning 137 

pastilles 532 

poison, antidote tor 660 

pots, cleaning 138 

musty odor, prevention of 139 

shelves for 75 

sleeplessness, cause of 152 

stains 163, 169 

butter for 168 

linen, on 163,169 

stove polish. In 128 

Coke 126 

coal, from 81 

fuel, as 81-82 

gas, a by-product of 95 

kindling, as 126-127 

Colander, cleaning 138 

Cold air box, screened 84 

soldered joints 84 

boxes, high winds blowing Into... 84 

baths 439 

cream, basis of 470 

complexion, for the 447 

fingernails, for the 455 

hands, tor the 453 

nails, for toughening the 456 

creams 470, 484 

storage fruits 118 



PAOH 

Cold storage, meats, of 118 

vaults, furs, for 308 

vegetables 118 

Colds, cause of 441 

preventive of 441 

Colic, cause of 672 

Collar bone, fracture of 658 

Collars, creases, removal of 246 

Ironing 228 

old canvas, use of, for 247 

ribbed iron for 226 

starching 225 

Collodion cement 350 

cuts, for 655 

Jewelry, for storing 433 

silver, protecting 142 

tools, rust, protecting from 334 

Cologne spirits (see alcohol). 

Colonial chairs 63 

Colophony 366 

nature of 3G6 

Color and light 36 

black 94 

floor oil, to 274 

floors, on 42 

furniture, to renovate the 289 

Kitchen, for the 74 

rag-carpet warp, to 43 

scheme, basis of 36 

carpets should harmonize 43 

dining room, for 73 

harmonious 36 

schemes, decoration, in 85 

south rooms, toning down, for .... 36 

walls, to 38 

yellow, clothes, of 220 

Colored articles, freezing, faded by... 220 

cement 350-351 

clothes, starching 225 

copal varnish 371 

curtains 214 

washing 214 

flannel, washing , 217 

goods, bluing for 222 

bran, to wash, with 211 

cautions for 209 

cleaning 172 

color of, to fix 210 

don'ts for 209 

drying 210 

hanging out 220 

ironing 228 

lemon juice on . : 157 

oxalic acid, bleaching 156 

raw potatoes, to clean with 211 

red stains from 167 

rinsing 210 

salt on 157 

soap for 193 

sprinkled, not to be 222 

sudsing 209 

tartaric acid on 158 

washing 209 

wringing 210 

ink, making 429 

paints, mixing 362 

sealing wax 374 

silks, ironing 229 

stains, removal, from 172 

washing 215 

woolen dress goods, washing 216 

woolens, sudsing 216 

washing 216 

Coloring matters 461 

toilet preparations, for 461 

Colorings, candy, for 640 

Colors 37 

and patterns 37 

blue, in carpets 43 

brightening 268 

carpets, in 43 



692 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Colors, dark, in carpets 43 

fixing 210 

delicate, iron for 228 

faded, reviving 176 

green, in carpets 43 

harmonious 34 

light and delicate, bedrooms, tor ... 36 

absorb 36 

in carpets 43 

reflect 36 

neutral 43 

quiet and subdued 34 

solid, effect of 37 

light to fix 210 

linens, to fix in 211 

Comb, honey, preservation in 544 

Combs, washing 485 

Combustion, principles of 123 

products of 86 

spontaneous, fires from 148 

Comforters 64 

hose for rinsing 218 

(see quilts) 218 

washing 218 

Commercial ice, harvesting 118 

Commodities, weight of 627 

Common twine, uses of 77 

Commonplace book 72 

Complexion paste 468 

preservation of 447 

the 446 

Compound cements 349 

glues 348 

Compounding toilet preparations 461 

Concrete cellars, ' preventing damp- 
ness in 262 

construction, rat-proof 318 

painting, specification for 357 

Conductivity, metals of 383 

metals, properties of 383 

Confectioner's fondant 523 

Confectionery, coloring 541 

Construction, rat-proof 318 

Consumption, fresh air, cured by 59 

ventilation, caused by poor 59 

Conveniences, sewing-room 236 

Convulsions 651 

Cook stove, cleaning 128 

Cooking beans in ash pan 127 

utensils, cleaning 137 

washing 132 

Cooks' proportions, table of 634 

time-table 631 

Cooling bag, a 121 

box 121 

Copal 365 

gold lacquer, for 407 

ink in marking 428 

varnish 367, 370 

colored 371 

French polish, in 379 

leather, for waterproofing 423 

nature of 365 

patent leather, for 425 

shoes, for 419 

stained floors, for 275 

steel, for keeping, polished 388 

turpentine 371 

varnishes 370 

Copper, acetate of, ink, in 427 

for green ink 430 

bean-shot 389 

brazing 400 

carbonate, ammonlacal. insects, for 

destroying 329 

castings, improvement of 389 

coins, English 642 

color, iron, for 389 

compound of 389 

electroplating with 400 

feather-shot SS9 



PAOE 

Copper, gold plating 405 

green, for coloring bronze 401 

ink, for metal label 431 

iron, for coloring 389 

nature of 389 

pickles, testing for 572 

rivet of, ironware, for mending 387 

solder 394 

solution, iron, for 400 

sulphate of, blackheads, for 439 

fabrics, flreproofing 92 

poisoning from 651 

solution, insects, for destroying. . . 329 

spraying 329 

zinc varnish. In 372 

test for 115, 389 

tin, coating with 393 

tinning 399 

ware 137-139 

cleaning 137 

salt for 137 

use of 139 

vinegar for 136 

whitening 390, 401 

zincking 400 

Copperas, black silk, for cleaning 171 

canvas, flreprooflng 93 

carpets, in dyeing 43 

cellars, for cleaning 262 

cloth, flreproofing 92 

drain, in 113 

flres, for putting out : . 91 

prevention of 92 

floors, for staining 274 

green, gold, for coloring 434 

ink, in 426 

iron, compound of 335 

leather, for black 417 

tanning 415 

in waterproofing 423 

lime paint, in 361 

odors, removal of 113 

sinks, cleaning 145 

stove polish, in 128 

Coppering solutions, metals, for 400 

Coppersmith's cement 350 

Copy, manuscript, counting 636 

Copying ink, making 42S 

inks 42S 

Coral tooth powder 506 

Coriander seed, sachet, for 477 

Cork carpet, bathroom, for 67 

linoleum, in 40 

Corks, window sashes, for supporting 286 

Corn, drying 608 

green, pickled 579 

meal bags, dishcloths, as 136 

calcimined walls, for cleaning 284 

carpets, for 255 

when sweeping 269 

furs, for cleaning 180 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

gruel, invalids, for 670 

hands, for softening the 453 

Panama hats, cleaning isi 

shirt waists, dry-cleaning 167 

soap 449 

soot, carpets, removal from 2'71 

straw, for bleaching I84 

wall paper, for cleaning 283 

vinegar 566, 

Corncobs, lighters, as flre 105 

Corned beef, improving 593 

Corners, window 285 

Cornices, painting, specifications for .. 357 

Corns, anatomy of the 438 

Cornstarch, blood stains, for 159 

curtains, for starching 231 

dextrin, in ' " 337 

laces, in starching ' 230 

laundry, for the ,] 223 



INDEX 



693 



PAQB 

Cornstarch, mud stains, for 173 

paper-hanger's paste. In 339 

wash balls, for 460 

Correspondence, place set apart for . . 68 
Corrosive sublimate, flour paste, in... 339 

ink, in 427 

mold, for preventing 432 

leather, for black 417 

medicine case, in 649 

moths, destruction of 308 

mucilage, for preserving 341 

nature of 398 

poisoning from 650 

scab, for preventing 329 

spraying with 329 

Corsets, mending 243 

washing 208 

Cosmetics 484 

Cottolene 601 

Cotton, absorbent, medicine case, in.. 649 

medicine closet^ in 662 

batting, pillows, for fancy 49 

quilts, for 65 

stair carpets, padding for 273 

steel knives and forks, for 141 

blankets 266 

house cleaning, when 266 

mattress top, for 64 

citric acid for 157 

cloth, bleaching 182 

darning, box for 235 

receptacle tor 235 

dress skirts, cleaning 168 

fancy crochet, darning, for 244 

felted, mattresses, for 62 

flannel, table pad, for 73 

goods, fine, washing 208 

lace, washing 211 

linseed oil, with 42 

mildew, removing, from 183 

muriatic acid for 168 

oxalic acid, application of 156 

Persian, curtains, for 45 

quilts, amount for 66 

sheeting 64 

silvering 413 

stains on 166 

sterilized absorbent 647 

tartaric acid for 168 

underwear, dishcloths, as 136 

vegetable fiber 163 

waterproofing 93 

white, ink stains, removing from 166 

window shades, for 47 

Couch 52 

covers 52 

pillows for 52 

veranda, for 80 

Cough candies 540 

Counterfeit silver, U. S. Mint test for 413 

Counterpanes, hanging out 220 

Counting, groups, in 636 

Country homes tastefully furnished . . 34 

Court-plaster, medicine closet, in 662 

Coverings, wall, fading of 66 

Covers, bed 62 

magazine 57 

pillow 50 

Crab apples 555 

Crack, candy making, in 619 

Cracked articles, repairing 138 

Crack-fillers, carpet beetles, for de- 
stroying 311 

Cracks, cement for filling 347-349 

filling 42, 74 

furniture, filling up, in 378 

plaster, repairing, in 281 

Cradles, children, for 68 

Craftsman chairs . .- 63 

Cranberries, preserving 657 

Crape, cleaning 176 



PAGE 

Crape, lace, cleaning 176 

Crash, laundry bags, for 154 

pillows, covering 50 

Crayon marker 240 

Crazy quilts, making 65 

Cream 521 

candies 524 

candy 517-525 

Circassian 473 

fresh, skin, for the 463 

leather furniture, tor 418 

milk, tor baby's 673 

ot tartar 156 

acetic acid 157 

acid principle ot 167 

brass, in tinning 399 

discolored silver, for cleaning .... 143 

gilding, for coloring : 410 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

for dry-cleaning 178 

grass stains, for 163 

ink, for red 430 

stains, removal of 166 

Iron rust, for 164 

silver, for polishing 143 

stains, removal of 453 

white goods, bleaching 185 

walnuts 435 

Creams 517 

shaving 499 

Creased velvet, renovation ot 246 

Creases, collars, removal from 246 

Creeks, water supply for 112 

Creolin, fleas on cats, tor 316 

Creosote, mosquito bites, prevention of 326 

poisoning from 650 

white ants, avoiding 321 

Cretonne, bran, for 211 

curtains, tor 45 

pocket, patterns, tor 237 

stove holders, for 130 

Crib, Morris chair as 67 

Cribs, capacity of 620 

children, for 58 

Crickets, exterminating 312 

Crochet needle, stockings, to mend, 

with 244 

stitch, darning with 244 

wojk, washing 217 

Crocneted goods, hanging out 220 

shawls, washing 217 

Crockery, white-of-egg' cement for ... 344 

Croton bugs 311 

Crucibles, platinum for 399 

workroom, in the 336 

Crude oil (see petroleum) 

petroleum, spraying with 330 

Crust, tea kettle, inside the 116 

Crystallized popcorn 639 

Crystals, sirup for 520 

Cubic measure 617 

Cucumber milk, complexion, for the . . 463 

pickles 5'77 

vinegar 669 

Cucumbers, diet, in 646 

freshening 572 

large, pickling 674 

pickles, preservation of, for 671 

pickling 572 

selection of, for 570 

preserving 557 

Cuffs, ironing 228 

ribbed iron for 226 

Cupboard, kitchen, in 133 

Cure, fresh-air 59 

Curling fluids 496 

hair, the 495 

irons, denatured alcohol, heated with 111 

Currant catsup 683 

paste drops • 632 

pastilles 532 



694 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Currants, icld principle of 167 

preserving B57 

Curry powder 586 

vinegar 670 

Curtain rings 48 

stove holders, tor 130 

rod, curtains, for stretclilng 214 

stretcher %..., 214 

Curtains 45 

bedrooms, for 45-61 

broad windows, for 47 

colored 214 

washing 214 

doing up 231 

drying 214 

dyeing 46 

house cleaning, when 265 

Ironing 231 

lace 211 

airing 213 

hanging 46 

launder, when to 213 

laundering 213 

mending 46 

washing 211 

laundry, preparation for 214 

muslin 45 

sick room, for 664 

sash 46 

flour sacks for 47 

starching 230 

stretching 214 

window 45 

materials for 45 

Cushions, chair 50 

footstools, for 49 

Cut glass, care of 139 

cleaning 140 

, cutting 301 

I packing 301 

washing 140 

Cuticle scissors, nails, for the 456 

Cuts, treatment of 655 

Cutting 249 

bias folds 249 

scissors 239 

silk 249 

tools, bronze, for 391 

waists, scissors for A. 239 

Cuttlefish-bone tooth powder 506 

Dado, wall, for tinted 39 

Dadoes, effect of .- 38 

Damp walls, drying 284 

Dampers, range, managing of 127 

Dampness, cellar, removal of, in 263 

cellars, prevention in 262 

chimneys, prevention in 87 

closets, prevention In 76 

linen, preserving, from 232 

prevention of 263,284 

Dandruff 485 

Darning ball 244 

cotton, box for 235 

crochet stitch for 244 

Invisible 242 

needle, threading a 238 . 

sewing machine for 242 

stockings on sewing machine 244 

thread for 244 

woolen goods 241 

stockings 244 

woolens, on 241 

Dashboards, varnish for 425 

Date candy B33 

creams 526 

Davenport, making a 52 

Days, good old, domestic arts In 333 

Decanters, stoppers of, loosening 292 

Decorating 33 

Decoration, color schemes in 35 



PAGE 

Decoration, trend in ^ 34 

Decorations, backgrounds for 38 

bedrooms, for 61 

Degrees, sugar boiling, in 519 

Delft china, dining room, for sunny .. 36 

Den, magazine covers for 57 

red for a 36 

Denatured alcohol 109 

cost of 110 

lighting, for 110 

Denim, floor covering 42 

linseed oil, with 42 

pillows, covering 50 

rugs, background for 42 

stove holders, for 130 

Dental work 513 

Dentifrices 505 

Dentists, gold used by 408 

Dentists' amalgam 514 

nerve paste 514 

Depilatories, moles, for 440 

Design, absence of 37 

carpets, in 43 

Designs, beautiful 34 

embroidery, transferring 247 

large figured, unfashionable 34 

simple 34 

Desks, writing 68 

Dextrin 337 

mucilage 340 

nature of 337 

Diamond cement 342 

Dictionary, library, for the 69 

Diet, vegetables 646 

Digestion during sleep 151 

Diluents 460 

toilet preparations 460 

Dimity, bedspreads, for 63 

curtains, for bedroom 45 

Dining room 73 

wall coverings for 73 

Dining rooms, leather, imitation, for. 37 

Diphtheria, kitchen sinks, due to 74 

Dirt, avoiding 34, 42 

definition of 201 

wounds, removal from 648 

Dlscoloratlons, silver, removal from . . 148 

Disease, flies cause of 321 

toxins cause 253 

Diseases, filth, germs of 145 

Dish drainer, dishwashing, for 134 

kitchen, for 135 

draining 135 

mop, dishcloths, as 136 

towels 136 

care of 136 

linen, old, for 232 

Dishcloths 136 

care of 136 

clean, keeping 136 

line for 134 

linen, old, for 232 

Manila rope for 136 

twine, from common 77 

washboard for 134 

Dishes, greasy, lye for 133 

milk, washing 135 

washing, soap shaker for 199 

Dishrag gourd, dishcloths, as 136 

Dishwashing 132 

conveniences for 133 

machines 134 

mop, stoves, for polishing 128 

washing powders, for 207 

Dishwater, disposition of 75 

greasy 133 

Disinfect refrigerators 122 

Disinfectant, cellars, for 262 

DIsinfeetion, cellars 263 

Dislocations, treatment of 657 

Disperene, insects, for destroying .... 330 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Dlsperene, spraying with 330 

Distilled viuegar ...667 

water 460 

Doctor, consultation of 647 

Doctors, beauty 446 

Dog bite, treatment of 655 

Dogs, fleas on 315 

rats, to kill 317 

Doilies, ironing 229 

Dollar, aliquot parts of 641 

Domestic art, soap malcing, of 186 

arts, comforters 65 

good old days in 333 

quilts 65 

Axminster carpet 39 

measure, tables of 629 

Door mat 80 

plates, cleaning ',[', 145 

Doors creaking, prevention of 286 

folding or sliding 51 

keeping open 286 

Dough, wall paper, for cleaning 283 

Dragon's blood, French polish, for col- 
oring 379 

liquid rouge, for 472 

toilet preparations, for 461 

Drain, disinfectiog the 145 

sink 113 

Drainage, ice boxes, of 119 

houses, of 119 

mosquitoes destroyed by 325 

refrigerators, of 119 

sinks, from 75 

surface 113 

Draining dishes 135 

Drainpipes, clearing 263 

disinfecting 145 

importance of 113 

Drains, bacteria in 253 

cellars, for 262 

copperas for 113 

kerosene, tor mosquitoes 325 

open, mosquitoes, breed 325 

tar varnish for 372 

Draperies 15, 45, 48 

bedrooms, discarded from 150 

burlap for 48 

cleaning 48 

dusting 251 

house cleaning, when 265 

leather scraps for 48 

living rooms, for 51 

summer, taking down in 48 

Draught, cause of 88 

combustion, for 123 

explanation of 124 

furnace 83 

sick room, preventing in 662 

Draughts, avoiding 42 

candle, protection from 109 

prevention of 50, 60-61 

range, managing of 127 

Drawers, cleaning 264 

lubrication of 264 

Drawing board, library, for the 69 

room furniture, linen walls, with .. 38 

Drawings, varnish for 373 

Drawn rugs, making 44 

Dreams, nature of 151 

Dress, babies, proper, for 674 

blue linen, uses of 247 

brown linen, uses of 247 

goods, chemical soap for 162 

crazy quilts, pieces for 66 

silk, washing 215 

washing with rice 217 

white, starch 225 

woolen, chemical soap for 162 

crazy quilts, pieces for 66 

renovating 174 

shields, rubber, gasoline, spoiled by 160 



page; 
Dresses, delicate, soap, not to be 

rubbed with 208 

kitchen 247 

morning 247 

Bilk 242 

mending 242 

woolen, cleaning 175 

Dressing table 67 

Drills, Are 91 

boys, for 91 

lubricator for 378 

Drinking water 114 

boiling 116 

rain water, from 114 

rivers, from 114 

springs, from 114 

wells, from 114 

Drinks, invalids, for 669 

Drip pan, water in 132 

Dripping pan, drainer, as a 135 

Drop candy 517 

Drops, ginger 532 

Drowning 659 

Drugget, bran for 266 

Druggists' abbreviations 626 

Drum, bathrooms, for heating 442 

radiator, stovepipe, on the 86 

Drunkenness, fainting from 651 

Dry beans, storing 607 

cleaning shirt waists 167 

white goods 167 

measure 620 

domestic 630 

liquid measure, and, comparison of 622 

Dryer, paint, for 360 

Dryers, drying oils, for 376 

printers' ink, for 432 

Drying oils, preparation of 376 

Duck cloth, mildew on 183 

feathers 63 

stains, to remove 160 

stove holders, for 129 

waterproofing 93 

Ductility, metals, property of 383 

Dull scissors, sharpening 239 

Dung, leather, for 415 

Duplex paper, hanging 282 

living rooms, for 37 

walls, for 36 

Dust 252 

avoiding 34, 42, 250 

cellars, prevention of 263 

cloth, piano, for 289 

ironware, removal from 137 

painting, avoiding, in 354 

piano, excluding from 54 

prevention of 84, 251, 253 

register, from the 84 

removal of 254 

road, white paint, in 362 

sterilization of 253 

Dusters 254 

wing 255 

Dusting 252-254 

books 69 

registers 84 

walls 283 

Dutch process, bleaching, of 182 

Dye, black, harness, tor 425 

renovating with 174 

bluing, in making 222 

colored silks. In 'hashing 215 

hair 493 

silk stockings, tor 216 

Dyeing curtains 46 

Dyestuff, wall paper, for renovating . . 284 
DyestufEs, carpets, for faded 271 

Earthen jar, matches, for 130 

Earthenware, brown stains, removal 

from 139 



696 



INDEX 



PAOEl 

Earthenware, cement for 344 

cleaning 138 

gum-arabic cement for 340 

repairing 138 

water, l^eeplng, cool 115 

Ebony, floors, for staining 274 

Economics, tablecloth 233 

Economies, fuel 127 

small 77 

Economy, stove heat 86 

Ecru, looms, toning down for south . . 36 

Edging, embroidery, underwear 248 

lace, laundry, preparation for the... 212 

Education, candle making, in 106 

musical, cost of 53 

Educational influence, housefurnish- 

ing, of 33 

library, of 68 

passing of 66 

yalue, manual work, of 333 

nails, in driving 336 

Perry pictures, of 72 

Egg and coffee, Invalids, for 670 

beater, cleaning 137 

cream. Invalids, tor 669 

gruel. Invalids, for 670 

lemonade, invalids, for 670 

sandwiches, invalids, for 668 

stains, silver, removal from 144 

whip, rack for 76 

white of, almond paste, for 469 

cement 344 

gilding size, for 412 

kid gloves, for cleaning 179 

labels, for 79 

leather furniture, for cleaning . . . 418 

men's clothes, for cleaning 175 

picture frames, for 290 

silk, for cleaning 171 

starch, with 225 

straw hats, for 181 

windows, sun, keeping out of 286 

yolk of, almond paste, for 469 

coffee stains, for 168 

grease, on silk, removal of 170 

old stains, for 169 

Eggnog, invalids, for 670 

Eggs, dried 603 

golden-rod, invalids, for 667 

methods of preserving 602 

packing 603 

pickling 603 

preservation of 601 

storeroom for 79 ' 

testing 501 

whites of, blacking, liquid, for 424 

hearth, for blackening 130 

poison, antidote for 649 

stove polish, in 128 

varnish, in, for window glass 372 

yolks of, hands, chapped, for 466 

Eggshells, bottles, cleaning 140 

Eiderdown, covers, for bed 63 

house cleaning, when 267 

quilt, care of 267 

Elastic, pumps, for 420 

Elder flowers, toilet water, for 480 

Electric bulb, cost per hour 94-95 

health, effect on 94-95 

needle, moles, for 440 

railways, effects of 41 

Electricity 109 

accidents from 653 

annual cost of 94 

gold plating without 405 

iron plating without 406 

Electroplating 403 

copper, with 400 

hints for 406 

nature of process 403 

silver on Iron 406 



PAGE 

Electroplating, silver nitrate, used In 412 

Electrotypes, iron for 389 

Eleotrotyplng 400, 403 

experiment for 404 

molds for 404 

nature of process 403 

plaster casts for 404 

Embroidering, linen, to prepare, for. . 248 

Embroidery, appliqug 247 

box for 235 

designs, transferring 247 

edging for underwear 248 

eyelet 248 

orange stick for 248 

hoop, mending, for 242 

Ironing 228-229 

scissors 239 

silk 248 

care of 248 

washing 211 

Emergency, what to do in 645 

Emery, brass fittings, for cleaning 128 

flour of, blackboards, in paint for... 361 

oilstones, for straightening 378 

wheel, workroom, in the 335 

Emetics, poison, antidote for 650 

Enamel, black, metal beds, for 266 

ether varnish for repairing 371 

gilt, beds, renovating 62 

metal beds, for 266 

painting on walls 359 

on woodwork 359 

pantry shelves, for 76 

white, beds 61 

kitchen sink, for 134 

metal beds, for 266 

Enameled ware 137 

care of 137 

soap, protected by 137 

Encyclopedia, library, for the 69 

Engineers' cement 347 

English bar soap 196 

dry measure 620 

ivy, ice house, for protecting 120 

measures of weight, old 625 

money 642 

walnut creams 526 

Envelopes, casein cement for 345 

dextrin for sealing 337 

mucilage for 340 

scrapbooks, as 71 

Epsom salts, oxalic acid, distinguish- 
ing from 166 

poison, antidote for 650 

starch. In 224 

Eraser, ink 70 

rubber, pencil marks, for 155 

Erasers, pencil, cleaning 72 

Escape, fires, from 92 

Escaping coal gas, avoiding 127 

Essences 474 

distilling 479 

nature of * . 474 

Essential oil, ink, mold, preventing, in 432 

oils 376 

linen, for preserving 232 

mold, prevention of 69 

sunburn lotions, for 465 

test for 475 

Ether, asphalt dissolved by 367 

fixed oil dissolved by 376 

glove cleaners, in ,', 178 

oils, dissolved by 154 

paint, for removing 278 

poisoning from ',. 650 

rosin, for dissolving 366 

sulphuric, cleansing mixture, in 161 

shellac cement, In 343 

sulphurous, grease, removal of 69 

varnishes 371 

Evaporation, cooling box, from ! 122 



INDEX 



697 



PAGE 

Evaporation, cooling by 147 

Everton taffy 528 

Elxcelsior, Icindling, as 125 

mattresses 62 

paolfing, for 300 

pillows, for fancy 49 

Exercise 645 

too much 644 

Expansion metal 392 

Explosion, gas, from, avoiding 99-100 

kerosene, from, avoiding 101 

possible ot 104 

prevention of 102 

lamp, ot 105 

molten silver, prevention of 412 

nkture of 123 

Explosions, gasoline, to avoid, from. . .160 

lamps, prevention ot 103 

pipes, in frozen 114 

Extinguishers, fire 88 

Eyebrows 501 

Eyelashes 501 

Eyelet embroidery, orange stick for.. 248 
Eyes, examination of 647 

Fabrics, colored, inks, removing, from 166 

delicate, soap for 198 

fireprooflng 92 

mending, delicate 242 

nature ot 162 

white, ink stains, removal, from 433 

Face, bleeding of 654 

cloth 447 

scrim as a 447 

washing the 447 

Faded ink, restoration of 432 

manuscripts, restoration of 70 

white goods, bleaching ot 185 

Fading white goods, prevention of 184 

Fainting 651 

Fancy pillows, filling for 49 

work 247 

Chinese cement for 343 

ironing 228 

restoration ot, to shape 248 

woolen 217 

washing 217 

Farm pests 326 

Farmer's satin, ironing 228 

Fashion, floors, bare, and rugs 41 

Fasting, sleeplessness, cause of 152 

Fat, cod 600 

graining 189 

Fatigue 646 

Fats, animal, soap, in 187 

Faucets, cement for leaking 350 

tubs, for 201 

wash boilers, for 201 

Fawn color paint, mixing 364 

Feather beds, care of 267 

inadvisable 62 

mattresses, replaced by 63 

use ot 63 

candy making, in 519 

dusters 254 

Feather^, bleaching 184 

chicken 63 

cleaning 179 

grebe and other skins 180 

curling 180 

duck 63 

fiber, animal 163 

geese, live 63 

goose 63 

moths feed on 304 

in 309 

protecting from ■ 264 

pillows 63 

cleaning 267 

filling 64 

for 49, 63 



PAGE 

Feathers, purifying 267 

renovating 180 

Feeding babies 674 

Feet warm, keeping 147 

Felt hats, chemical soap tor 162 

ivory, for polishing 434 

Fermentation 587 

Fermenting, vinegar 563 

Fern, taboret, for 53 

Ferrets, rats, to kill 31T 

Ferrous sulphate, fires, for putting 

out 91 

Fevers 14S 

Fiber brush, drip tray, scrubbing 131 

ironware, scraping 133 

oven racks, for 131 

brushes, dishwashing, tor 134 

Fibers, animal 163 

feathers 163 

furs 163 

ink, removing from 169 

silk 163 

wool 163 

vegetable 163 

cotton 163 

linen 163 

stains, removal ot 168 

Fig bars 533 

candy 533 

creams 526 

leaves, black silk, for cleaning 171 

gloss, removal of 178 

Figs, green, preserving 55S 

File, scissors, for sharpening 239 

Files, chemically, recutting 336 

Filings, copper, iron, for coppering. . . 389 

tin 394 

Filler, hard- wood, floors, for 41 

wood 380 

Filling, fancy pillows, tor 49 

floors, tor 42 

ingrain, all-wool 42 

rugs, background tor 42 

teeth, temporary, for the 514 

Filter cistern 116i 

water, homemade 117 

Filters, water 116 

Finger, fracture of 65? 

marks, furniture, removal from 287 

nail, splinter under 64S 

nails, manicuring 455 

Fingers, bleeding of 654 

Finish, gloss, woolen goods, restoring 

on 244 

Finishes, dull 34 

Fire box, cleaning 124 

chemicals, extinguishing, with 89 

chimney, set, to 124 

control in time ot 647 

drills 91 

boys, tor 91 

escapes 88, 91 

extinguisher, Graham, Wm, A., in- 
ventor 89 

hand grenades 91 

extinguishers 88 

chemical 89-90 

furnace, care of 127 

laying 125 

grate, kindling, in a 124 

kerosene, extinguishing 91 

lamps 105 

in 105 

range, coal, saving 127 

shaking and cleaning 127 

root, set to 124 

screens, fireprooflng 92 

water supply, for protection against 112 

Fireplace, open, old-fashioned 85 

Fireplaces, heating system, as 82 

open, supplementary heat 86 



698 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Fireproof canvas 93 

cement 345-348 

cloth 92 

fabrics 92 

garments 92 

paint 361 

stone varnish 372 

whitewash 280 

wood 93 

Flreproofing 92 

Fires, carbonic-acid gas for putting 

out 89 

care of 123 

chimney, putting out 88 

combustion, spontaneous, from 148 

escaping from 92 

extinguishing 88 

kerosene for lighting 105 

kindling 123 

without smoke 88 

laying 124 

low, quickening 126 

salt, quickening 126 

preventing 92 

salt, putting out with 88 

sulphur for putting out 88 

Fish, gelatin from 337 

glue 337 

nature of 337 

live, gilding 411 

mosquitoes, to kill 325 

odors, removing, of 135 

oil, deodorizing putrid 377 

purification of 377 

preservation of 590 

Fishhook wounds 648 

Fittings, nickel, prevention of rust . . 298 
steel, cleaning 128 

Fixed oil varnishes 367 

oils 367, 376 

Flames, combustion, in 123 

Flannel, bleaching 184 

brass fittings, tor cleaning 123 

cloth, furniture, for 287 

gilt frames, for wiping 290 

fomentation cloths, for 660 

goods, hanging out 220 

hearth, cleaning the 128 

outing, lamp wicks, for 149 

paint, tor cleaning 277 

steel knives and forks, for 141 

stove holders, for 129 

stoves, for polishing 129 

tins, polishing 138 

underwear, silver, for polishing 143 

Flannels, ironing 230 

moths, protecting from 264 

sudsing 216 

washing 216 

Flatiron, alcohol, denatured 226 

asbestos ; ; , 226 

electric 226 

patented 226 

small, laundry, for 201 

toy 226 

velvet, for 172 

Flatirons clean, keeping 226 

cleaning 226 

denatured alcohol, heated with Ill 

gas, heating, with 132 

tempering 386 

Flavorings, candy, for B42 

shelf for 76 

Flaxseed lemonade, invalids, for 671 

poultices 660 

Flea, house, the 314 

exterminating 314 

Fleas, dogs, on 315 

domestic animals, on 315 

extermination of 314 

Flesh color paint ,.... 364 



PAGE 

Flesh worms, nature of 439 

Flexible glue 341 

varnish 368 

birdlime, in 368 

Flies, banishing 321 

destroying 321 

disease caused by 321 

meat, preserving, from 589 

mosquito netting for 321 

painting, avoiding In 364 

preventives against 322 

residuum oil for 321 

screens for 321 

Floor coverings 39 

background, as 36 

cleaning %63 

dining room, for 73 

kinds of 39 

solid colored, preferable 34 

use of 41 

hard- wood, gasoline for 266 

ideal 41 

imitation of 40 

kitchen 74 

hard wood for 74 

oil, coloring 274 

oils, stain, tend to 256 

Floors, bare, moths, for avoiding 306 

bedrooms, of 61 

cracks, filling 273 

in 273 

dining room, of 73 

hard-wood 255 

care of 257 

finish for 255 

Imitation of 41 

wax for 255 

kitchen, glue paint for 362 

oil for 256,273 

-stained, care of 275 

polished, carpet beetles, avoiding ... 310 

scrubbing, washing fluids for 205 

smooth 255 

soluble glass for 42 

stained, cleaning 275 

varnish for 275 

stains for 274 

summer care of 268 

unpainted 276 

cleaning 276 

wax, restoration of 2B7 

waxed, polish for 256 

polishing 256 

spots on 256 

steel wool for 256 

waxing 256 

wood, cleaning 273-275 

reflnishing 273 

Florida water 482 

recipe for 482 

Flounces, unfashionable 34 

Flour bags 77 

uses of 77 

cement 339 

gluten in 337 

lace, for dry-cleaning 173 

mud stains, for 173 

papier-machS, for cleaning 296 

paste 338 

making 338 

oilcloth, for laying 272 

plaster cracks, for repairing 281 

preservation of 339 

rugs, for laying 258 

sugar, with 339 

sacks 47 

crazy quilts, for 65 

dish towels, for 136 

dishcloths, as 136 

sash curtains, for 47 

ticks, for ,., 64 



INDEX 



699 



PAGE 

Flour sacks, 'washing 136 

silver, protecting 142 

woolens, for washing 217 

Flower pot, filter, for 117 

water, perfumes, for 476 

Flue (see chimney) 

Flues 87 

Fluid measure, apothecaries' 623 

Fluids, washing 205 

Fluting, toy flatlron tor 226 

Fly, common house 321 

paper, fleas, lor destroying 314 

poisonous, to make 322 

sticky, to make 323 

Folding beds 67 

Folds, bias, cutting 249 

Fomentations, application of 660 

Fondant B17 

boiling B21 

bonbon 523 

cautions for making 521 

chocolate 523 

confectioner's 523 

creaming 522 

dipping 522 

glucose, without 523 

rolling 522 

uncooked 524 

Food chopper, cleaning 137 

Invalids, for 665 

rich, babies, bad for 675 

stuffs, weight of 630 

well-cooked 646 

Foods, breakfast, shelves for ..„ 75 

raw 646 

Foot warmer 105 

lantern 105 

Footbath 445 

Footstools 49 

Force cups, sinks, for stopped-up 146 

Forearm, bleeding of 654 

broken 658 

Forks, carving, care of 141 

steel 141 

care of 141 

Form, bust 240 

Formalin, smut, for preventing 329 

spraying with 829 

Fosterine, cast iron, for welding 386 

Foxglove, poisoning from 650 

Fractures, treatment of 668 

Frames, gilt, mending 291 

renovating 290 

old gilt, renovating 291 

picture, cleaning 289 

quilting, homemade 66 

wood, cleaning 291 

Frangipani soap 460 

Franklin, Benjamin, Franklin stove, 

inventor of 85 

Freckles, nature of 439 

removal of J62 

Freezing, clothes, of 220 

preventing 220 

colored articles faded by 220 

colors injured by 210 

gas meter 99 

service pipes 99 

Ink, prevention of 432 

pumps, of 113 

prevention of 263 

water pipes, of 113 

point of 118 

French berries, ink, for yellow 430 

chalk, absorbent, as an 159 

benzine stains, for 161 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

grease, removal of 159 

rouge, for 472 

scouring mixture, in 162 

shoes, for squeaTcing 420 



pAGm 

French chalk, toilet powders, In 471 

cream 517, 624 

glucose, with 525 

kisses . ; 537 

polish 378 

coloring 3'79 

finish o£ 380 

furniture, for 378 

graining 379 

preparatioui of 379 

varnish, leather, tor 423 

leather, for waterproofing 423 

Frescoes, ceilings, on. 38 

glazing tor 281 

painting 281 

Fresh air cure 69 

consumption, for 69 

stains, milk for 157 

Friday, sweeping day 250 

Fright, fainting from 651 

Fringe, mending 242 

Front room 52 

Frost, pipes, prevention of 263 

Frozen meat, keeping 590 

water pipes 114 

thawing > 114 

Fruit candies 517 

canned, market, packing for 548 

canning 553 

creams 526 

diet of 646 

jar, glass, sprinkling, for 222 

rubber rings, old, use for 660 

jars, homemade 560 

refrigerators, for 122 

sterilizing 653 

testing i. 552 

Jellies 647 

juice, blotters for 76 

lath boxes for 609 

lozenges 634 

measuring 620 

packing 609 

preserving 554 

money in 547 

rules for 559 

rolls 534 

stains 173 

citric acid for 157 

colored goods, on 173 

gloves, on 377 

Javelle water for 160 

linen, on 169 

removal from 169 

oxalic acid for 157 

removal of, with 166 

removal of 70 

sweetmeats 633 

tarts 534 

vinegar 568 

Fruits, candied 532 

cold storage for 118 

Frying pan, sal soda for 137 

Fuel, coal as 81 

coke as 82 

economies 127 

gas as '. 82 

kinds of 81 

Fuller's earth, absorbent, as an 159 

alabaster, tor cleaning 436 

books, for 69 

carpets, for cleaning 270 

china, for cleaning 145 

complexion, for the 464 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

for dry-cleaning 178 

grease, floors, removal from 277 

spots, for 173 

hearth, for cleaning 130 

marble, oil stains, removal from . . 295 
oil stains, for 173 



700 



INDEX 



FAQE 

Fuller's earth, Panama hats, for clean- 
ing 181 

toilet powders, in 471 

sand soaps, in 198 

scouring mixture, in 162 

white paint, for cleaning 277 

windows, for polishing 285 

Fumigation, rats, to kill 318 

Fur cleaning 179-180 

moths feed on 304 

removal of 138 

skins, tanning 416 

Furnace, ashes, removal from 127 

coal for 127 

draught, indirect 83 

Are, banking 127 

care of 127 

laying 125 

shaking down 127, 251 

waste of heat, preventing 85 

Furnaces 82 

cement for mending 348 

beating system, as 82 

underfeed system 83 

Furnishing, necessary 35 

Furnishings, bedrooms, for 61 

harmony in 33 

styles and fashions in 33 

Furniture 34 

antique 35 

imitation of 35 

bedroom 62 

brass, cleaning 291 

trimmed, rooms, for west 36 

bruises, removal from 288 

care of 287 

cleaning 287, 382 

color, restoration of 289 

Craftsman and Mission styles 34 

durable 33-34 

holes in 378 

to fill 378 

leather, care of 418 

mahogany, to color 378 

paste for 382 

packing 301 

painting 360 

paste for 382 

polish 378 

preparation of 381 

polished 287 

polishing 380 

pores of, filling 380 

restoring color of 289 

scratches, removal of 288 

scratching, preventing 257 

selection of 34 

sick room, of 664 

simple 33-34 

soap for 288 

spider-legged 35 

upholstered, cleaning 292 

dusting 251 

varnish, transparent, for 370 

varnished, polishing 380 

washing 287 

waxing 380 

white and gold 35 

enameled, rooms, for west 36 

willow, bleaching 289 

wood, oils for 288 

yellow oak, rooms, for north and 

east 36 

Furs, cold storage for 308 

protecting from moths 118 

fiber, animal 163 

luster, improvement of 180 

moths, protection from 307 

storage of 308 

to clean 179, 309 

Fusibility, metals, of 383 



PAGE 

Fusibility, metals, property of 383 

Fusible meUl, nature of 395-398 

Gall, ink, for red 429 

Gallic acid, cloth, for silvering 413 

ink, in 426-427 

Galls, apple, hides, for tanning 416 

carbonate of iron, test for 115 

ink, faded, restoring 432 

leather, in waterproofing 423 

tannin in 416 

Galvanized iron, aluminum for 397 

Gambia, tannin in 416 

Garbage 145-146 

burner, garbage, for 133 

can, garbage, for 133 

cans, galvanized iron for 146 

disposal of 75, 145-146 

newspaper for 133 

Garden pests 326 

Garlic vinegar 570 

Garments, burning, to put out 89 

flreproofing 92 

insertion, sewing on 248 

men's, dry-cleaning 173 

moth-eaten, mending 242 

packing, preparation for 309 

storage of 309 

unfinished, closet for 235 

women's, dry-cleaning 175 

woolen, grease spots, removal of ... 309 

Gas 95 

acetylene 95, 99 

cost per hour 94-95 

health, effect on 94-95 

arc lamps '. 99 

blowing, preventing, from 98 

broiling with 132 

burners 97 

burning 96 

check for 98 

coal 95 

avoiding 127 

bituminous coal, made from 95 

illumination, for 95 

in 81 

consumed, amount of 96 

consumption of 96. 

frost line, below the 95 

fuel 81-82 

gasoline 95, 100 

cost per hour 94-95 

or incandescent, effect on health 94-95 

Illumination, for 95 

grates, chimney flue, under a 85 

illuminating, annual cost of 94 

incandescent, cost per hour 94-95 

ironing with 132, 

jets, blowing of : 96 

radiators, on 86 

kindling with 12ff 

leaks 99 

logs, chimney flue, under a 85 

mains 95 

meter, freezing of 99 

reading 96 

meters 95 

open fiame, cost per hour 94-95 

health, effect on 94-951 

oven, temperature of 86 

pressure of 95-98 

range air mixers 131 

blackening 131 

burners 131 

care of 131 

cleaning ! . ! . 130 

saucepan for 132 

regulation of 99 

service pipes, freezing of 99 

sewing room, for 238 

stove, gas consumed by 96 



INDEX 



701 



PAGE 

Gas stoves 86 

carbonic-acid gas from 85 

cooking, for 86 

heating, for 86 

system, as 82 

lighting 132 

living rooms, in 85 

troubles 98 

vraste of 132 

water heater, bathroom, for 87 

heaters 87 

kitchen boiler, attached to 87 

Gasoline, ant nest, for destroying 320 

ants, for exterminating 319 

bathroom, for cleaning the 268 

bedbugs, tor exterminating 313 

burning, putting out 91 

carpets, freshening faded 271 

chemical soap, in 162 

copper ware, for 137 

curtains, for cleansing 214 

fleas, tor destroying 314 

gas 95, 100 

illuminatioa (see gas) 

cheapest 100 

production of 100 

gloves, cleaning, with 177 

goatskin rugs, for washing 270 

grease, carpets, removal from 271 

floors, removal from 277 

hard-wood floor, for 266 

men's clothes, tor cleaning 175 

metal bedstead, tor 266 

moths, repellent for 306 

nature of 160 

oil stains, marble, removal from 296 

paint, removal of 278 

stains, for 165 

petroleum, product of 101 

sewing machine, cleaning, with 236 

silk, cleaning, with 170 

white, for cleaning 172 

stains, gypsum for 161 

stove polish, in 129 

stoves 86 

smoke, avoiding 86 

upholstered furniture, tor 292 

use of ..160,170 

velvet, for cleaning 172 

windows, for cleaning 285 

Gauges, mercury for 398 

Gauze, antiseptic, medicine closet, in 662 

Gears, bronze for 391 

Gelatin 337 

glue, photograph, for 341 

pad, tor hectograph 431 

Gems, care of 433 

ether varnish for setting 371 

Geranium leaves, lemon, sachet, for.. 477 

linen, for preserving 232 

oil of, test tor 475 

perfume 479 

German silver, imitation of 396 

nature ot 396 

plating, solutions for 405 

test for 406 

Germs, breeding places for 146 

dust, in 252 

fllth diseases, of 145 

Gilding, amalgam, by 384, 409 

' china, removal from 410 

size for 410 

coloring 410 

glass, removal from 410 

size for 410 

glue for 360 

gold amalgam tor 409 

leaf for 408 

powder for 410 

Grecian 410 

leather ■. 411 



Gilding Uve fish 411 

oil, on wood 410 

paper 412 

picture frames 411 

process of 409 

silver, on 410 

varnish tor 373 

Gilt frames, mending 291 

old, renovation ot 290, 291 

metals, cleaning 294 

ornaments, cleaning 290 

paint, picture frames, for 290 

picture frames, protection of 289 

" Ginger bread," imitation ot carving 34 

candy 534 

lozenges 540 

pastilles 532 

pears, preserving 568 

preserving 568 

sugar, preparation of 542 

tincture of, medicine case, in 648 

Gin, silk, for cleaning 171 

Gingham pocket, patterns for 237 

quilts, pieces tor 65 

Ginghams, washing, careful 209 

Glacfi kid gloves 177 

Glands, sebaceous, skin, in the 438 

Glass, annealing 434 

battles, ink for marking 428 

broken, rat holes, tor filling 318 

spirit varnish, for making 369 

burning, moles, tor 440 

cement for 343-344, 349-350 

cut, packing 301 

cutting 434 

fruit jars, uses for 335 

gliding for 410 

removal from 410 

globes, silvering 414 

graduate, toilet preparations, for . . . 461 

gum-arabic cement tor 340 

isinglass tor 34? 

jars, shelves for 75 

mending 360 

metal, attaching, to 347 

mouse holes, for 316 

paper, furniture, for smoothing 380 

pictures, transferring, to 57 

polishing 29S 

plaster-of-Paris cement tor 347 

prepared, copper, for whitening 390 

sandpaper, tor making 337 

shellac cement tor 343 

silvering 413 

size for gilding on 410 

soluble, fires, prevention of 93 

tor floors 42 

in paints 362 

sand soaps, in 19S 

stained, imitation ot 434 

stoppers 292 

washing 133 

window, restoration of 286 

varnish for 372 

Glassware, care of 139 

cement for 347 

cleaning 140 

dishcloths for 136 

fine, cut glass 140 

peach-tree gum for mending 350 

polishing 141 

washing 139 

wiping 141 

Glauber's salts, fur skins, tor tan- 
ning 416 

hard soap, for 192 

marine soap, tor 450 

poison antidote for 660 

Glazing frescoes 281 

Globes, cleaning 149 

s, silvering 414 



702 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Gloss finish, woolen goods, restora- 
tion of 244 

oil, barrel paint, tor 362 

removal of 176 

removing, from woolen 176 

Glove cleaners 178 

Gloves, benzine for 177 

black, dye for 429 

care of 177 

cleaning 177 

dry-cleaning 178 

gasoline for 177 

glace kid 177 

ink stains, removal of 179 

kid, cleaning 179 

milk for 178 

polishing 179 

renovation of 178 

mending 243 

stains, removal from 178 

suede, ink, black, for 178 

thread for mending 243 

turpentine for 177 

wash-leather, cleaning 178 

coloring ,.. 178 

Glucose, fondant without 523 

French cream with 625 

Glue 337 

bindings, restoration of 71 

black lace, for doing up 213 

brick wash. In 280 

calcimine. In 353 

cracks, lor filling 273 

fish 337 

flexible 341 

floors, for staining 274 

gilding, for 350 

gilt frames, tor mending 291 

liquid 341 

marine 346 

nature of 337 

paint, kitchen floors, for 362 

parchment 350 

photograph 341 

portable 341, 342 

sheet, crape lace, cleaning 176 

shoes, house, for mending 420 

size, fireproof paint, tor 361 

furniture, boles, in, for 378 

Ink, for show-card 430 

knots, for killing 365 

paper hanging, tor 339 

plaster ot Paris, with 435 

wall, tor whitewashed 283 

wood, preparation ot, for polishing 379 

Spalding's liquid 342 

starch, with 225 

use of 338 

washing powders, in 207 

water-color paint, tor 353 

waterproof 341 

whitewash, in 279-280 

Gluepot, workroom, in the 335 

Glues, compound 348 

Gluten 337 

flour. In 337 

Glycerin, blacking, in 424 

bookbindings, restoration of 71 

chemical soap, in 162 

coffee stains, removal ot 168-169 

cold cream, tor 470 

collodion cement, in 350 

complexion, for the 464 

freckles, for 462 

glue, flexible, tor 341 

hands, tor the 453-454 

honey balsam, in 464 

ink, for hectograph 431 

tor rubber-stamp 431 

in copying 428 

natural fats, in all 187 



PAGE 

Glycerin, nature of 464 

oil, fixed animal 376 

poison, antidote tor 650 

scenting 479 

soap, in 187 

making, by-product ot 192 

soluble glass paints, in 362 

stove polish, in 128 

windows, tor 285 

Goatskin rugs, washing 270 

Goatskins, tanning 417 

Gold, alloy of 408-409 

amalgam 409 

gold plating, for 405 

artificial 409 

bronze for 391 

brass color for 401 

bronze 402 

cheap 402 

coin, English 384,642 

chain, cleaning a 433 

United States 641 

color, paint, mixing 364 

coloring 434 

designing in 412 

designs in 412 

Ink, preparation for 430 

jewelry, to color 434 

lace, cleaning 173 

lacquer, metal, tor 407 

tin, tor 407 

leaf, fineness of 408 

fish, live, tor gilding 411 

gold bronze, tor 402 

handling 410 

knots, for killing 365 

metals, tor gilding 409 

nature ot 408 

nature ot 407 

paint, molding, for regildlng 412 

plating, electricity, without 405 

solution 404 

powder, gilding, tor 410 

making 409 

sealing wax 375 

size, molding, in regUding 412 

wood, for gilding on 410 

solder 394-409 

value of 408 

wire, imitation, making 400 

Gongs, Chinese, bronze tor 391 

Good teeth 502 

Goods, light, sponging 246 

white, citric acid tor 157 

cleaning, dry 167 

faded, to bleach 185 

fading, prevention ot 184 

Goose feathers 6 J 

wings, fire box, brushing out 124 

Gooseberries, acid principle of 157 

preserving 55^ 

Gooseberry catsup 685 

vinegair 559 

Gourds, darning ball, as 2441 

Gowns, starching 225 

summer, packing 302 

Grafting wax 344 

Graham, William A., fire extinguish- 
er, inventor ot 89 

Grain, measuring 620 

smut in 329 

Grains, lead in 392 

Granite sugar, coloring 542 

Grape catsup 586 

vinegar 566 

water, invalids, for 668 

Grapes, green, preserving 558 

ripe, chapped lips, tor 474 

Graphite, lubricator, as a 377 

Grass clippings, pillows, for fancy 4S 

cloth, screens, tor 4S 



INDEX 



703 



PAGE 

Grass stains 163, 167 

removal of 167 

tartaric acid tor 157 

toweling, dishclotlis, as 136 

Grate, asbestos blower tor 88 

blower for 88 

fire, kindling, in 124 

open, Franklin stove 85 

Grater, cleaning 138 

Grates, asphaltum varnisli for 372 

blackening 297 

cleaning , 130, 297 

open 86 

heating system, as 82 

Gratings, painting, specification for... 358 

Gravity, specific 641 

metals, properties of 383 

water supply for 112 

Gray bair, prevention of 494 

paint 364 

steel, staining 387 

Grease, absorbents for 159 

axle 378 

blotters for 76 

books, removal from 69 

carpets, removal from 271 

floors, removal from 276 

fur, on 180 

ironware, removal from 137 

kettle for 137 

leather, removal from 418 

machine 167 

sal soda for removing 167 

preservation of 189 

purification of 189 

removal of 159-271 

silk, removal from 170 

spots 167, 173 

alum, for removing 167 

colored goods, on 173 

moths prefer 305 

washing fluid for 205 

stains, gasolene, to clean, with 160 

turpentine, to remove 169 

wall paper, removal from 283 

wounds, removal from 648 

Grebe feathers and skins, cleaning 180 

washing 180 

Grecian gilding 410 

Green arsenoid, spraying with 330 

baize, silver, protecting 142 

beans, storing 607 

candy, coloring 641 

corn, pickled 579 

flgs, preserving 558 

fixing the color 211 

grapes, preserving 558 

hall, for the 36 

ink «0 

iodine, ink, for hectograph 431 

leather, dyeing 417 

light, light, absorbs 36 

rooms, for west 36 

thief of 36 

living room, for 36 

paint, cheap 363 

Paris green in 363 

peas, storing 607 

preserving 608 

sealing wax 375 

varnish, verdigris for making 371 

Greens, fixing 210 

rooms, toning down, for south 36 

Grenades, hand-fire extinguisher 91 

Grill, living rooms, for 61 

room for high 48 

for narrow *| 

Grindstone, workroom in the 335 

Groceries, dry, shelves for 75 

list of ^9 

ordering "^ 



PAOB 

Groceries, storeroom tor 79 

Ground pumice, copper ware, tor 137 

Gudgeons, Babbit metal for 395 

Guitars, cleaner for 289 

Gum amber, black asphalt varnish, in 368 
ammoniac, compound cement, in.... 349 

arable 366 

almond paste, in 469 

preparations, in 466 

blacking, paste, for 424 

brass, for cleaning 30O 

carpets, for faded 271 

cement 340 

in isinglass 342 

curtains, for starching 231 

fabrics, delicate, washing 211 

French polish, in 379 

gold powder, for 409 

green, for coloring bronze 401 

harness, in waterproofing 425 

ink, in 427 

for indelible 429 

metal 430 

show card 430 

laces, in cleaning 213 

in starching 230i 

leather, for black 417 

varnish, in 372 

marble, tor cleaning 294 

men's clothes, for renovating 175 

nature of 366 

paste 339 

gum acacia in 339 

plaster of Parts with 435 

safety matches, for 43S 

silk, for stiffening 229, 245 

starch, instead of 225 

with 224 

woolen goods, renovating 174 

benzoin, Circassian cream, for 473 

French polish, for 379-380 

rouge, for 473 

sachet, for 477 

camphor, silver, protecting 142 

copal, alcohol, cutting, with 381 

French polish, for 379 

furniture, for polishing 381 

hides, for tanning 416 

mastic, leather, in gilding 411 

resin cement, for 343 

mesquite, nature of 366 

peach-tree 350 

sandarac, French polish, for 379 

leather, for waterproofing 423. 

Senegal 36S 

shellac, blackened walls, for 284 

tragacanth, mucilage, for 340 

nature of 367 

rouge, for 472 

varnish for window glass 372 

water-color paint, in 353 

Gums 366 

nature of 366 

stains, solutions for 156 

Gun barrels, bronzing 402 

metal, bronze for 391 

vents, platinum for 399 

Gutta-percha 338 

asphalt varnish, in 368 

cleaning 296 

clotheslines 219 

electrotyplng, in 404 

map varnish, in 372 

nature of 338 

rubber cement, for 346 

Gutters, cellars, for 262 

painting, specifications for 358 

Gypsum, absorbent, as an 159 

cement 347 

gasoline stains, for 161 

glue size, tor 339 



704 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Gypsum, nature of 435 

sealing wax. In 374 

Hair, anatomy of the 438 

brush, cleaning 485 

brushes, care of 484 

care of the 483 

curled, mattresses 62 

pillows 62 

curling 495 

dry 489 

-cleaning 484 

dye, black 494 

brown 494 

red 494 

walnut 494 

yellow 494 

dyes 493 

falling out of 488 

gray, prevention of 494 

harsh 489 

loosening of the 488 

nature of the 483 

oil, coloring 491 

oils, compounding 491 

perfumes for 492 

use of 491 

powders 496 

compounding 496 

shampoo, dry 487 

superfluous 495 

tonics 488 

compounding 490 

washes 487 

compounding 488 

Hairdressing 483 

Hall, green for the 36 

Halls, leather, imitation, for 37 

outer, burlap for 38 

Ham, smoked, storing 596 

Hammock beds, porch, on, sleeping . . 61 

Hamper, bathroom, for the 443 

clothes 154 

soiled clothes, tor 154 

Hams, mutton, pickling 593 

pork, curing 594 

smoking 595 

Hand, bleeding of 654 

fire extinguisher, fires, for putting 

out 91 

fractured 658 

Handkerchief bags 237 

Handkerchiefs, doing up 228 

flatiron for 226 

initials, working, on 248 

old, bandages, for 663 

salt for 208 

scarfs, as bureau 67 

washing 208, 215 

Handles, kettle lids, of 139 

knife, fastening 141 

Hands, alkalies chap 205 

bran for the 454 

burning of 452 

care of 452 

chapped 454 

camphor for 465 

remedies for 455 

clean, to keep 128 

glycerin for the 454 

honey for the 454-455 

linseed oil for 454 

lotion for 261 

moist 452 

powder for the 455 

redness of 462 

softening the 453 

stains, removal from 452 

warm, to keep 219 

Hanging, paper 281 

Hangnails, prevention of 465 



PAGB 

Hard baked sirup 520 

(or anthracite) coal, fuel, as 81 

potash soap, making 193 

soap 192 

boiling 191 

caustic soda, from 195 

Improving 192 

sal soda, with 195 

soft, making 191 

softening 191 

yellow, soft soap, from 194 

wafer, softening 204 

Hardware, receptacles for 335 

varnish for 372 

Hard- wood floors, care of 257 

flnlsh for 255 

floors, over old 41 

imitation of 41-42 

preferable 34 

wax for 255 

Harness, care of 418 

cement for 346 

cleaning 425 

Harvest, commercial ice 118 

domestic ice 119 

Hats, felt, lamp wicks, for 149 

packing 302 

Panama, cleaning 181 

straw, cleaning 180 

sizing 181 

Hay, china, for packing 300 

linens, colored, fixing 211 

mattresses 62 

measurement of 626 

paint odor, for destroying 279 

pillows, for fancy 49 

Head, injured, when 647 

Headaches, ventilation, poor, caused 

by 59 

Health hints 645 

humidity good for 54 

light, artificial, effect of 95 

Healthtulness, denatured alcohol, of . Ill 

Hearth, blackening a 130 

cleaning 128-130 

making a 296 

open, Franklin stove 86 

Heat, combustion, for 123 

irons, to test heat of 227 

prostration from 652 

sleep, required during 58 

stove, economy of 86 

supplementary, fireplaces, open 86 

waste of, preventing 85 

Heaters, gas, to heat water 87 

Heating 81, 111 

coal stoves for 86 

denatured alcohol Ill 

methods of 82 

system, hot- water 83 

and hot-air 85 

steam 83 

vacuum steam system 84 

systems 81-82 

coal stove 82 

fireplaces 82 

furnaces 82 

gas stoves 82 

hot-air 82-84 

hot-water 82-83 

oil stoves 82 

open grates 82 

steam 82-83 

Hectograph ink 431 

pad, making a 431 

Heliotrope, tinctures for 479 

Hellebore, cockroaches, for destroying 312 

poisoning from 650 

worms, berry, for 331 

Hemlock bark, carpets, in dyeing 43 

bedding, in storing 26S 



INDEX 



705 



PAOB 

Hemlock, piUot^s, for fancy 49 

poisoning from 6B0 

tannin In 416 

Hemming table linen 232 

Hemorrhage, treatment of 666 

Hemstitching 24S 

sewing machine, on 248 

Herbs, drying 609 

poisoning from 650 

storing 604 

Hides, glue from 337 

tanning 416 

High polish preferable 34 

room, effect of, improving 48 

Hinged table 134 

Hinges, varnish for 369 

Hints, accident. In time of 647 

clothes 240 

health 645 

house cleaning 265 

ironing 229 

making over 246-247 

washing 208 

Historians, bathing, on 440 

Hoarhound candy 540 

Holders, flreproofing 92 

iron 227 

stove 129 

Holes, furniture, flUlng, in 378 

mouse, stopping 316 

rat, stopping 316 

"Hollands" linens 182 

Home remedies proven 671 

Hone, machine needles, for sharpening 238 

Honey, almond paste, for 469 

artificial, making 645 

chapped lips, for 473 

clarification of 544 

cleansing mixture, in 161 

complexion, tor the 464 

extraction of 544 

gold bronze, for 402 

powder, for 409 

hands, for the 463-454-465 

ink, for metal 430 

lavender water, tor 481 

silks, tor washing 215 

soap 449 

Honeycomb, preservation In 544 

Hoofs, glue from 337 

Hooks and eyes, shoe box for 234 

china closet. In 73 

pantry shelves, screw, on 76 

picture, use of 56 

Hops, pillows, tor fancy 49 

Horns, glue from 337 

Horse-radish, preserving 586 

root, freckles, for 462 

skin, tor the 463 

vinegar 569 

Hose, cotton, old, dusters, as 254 

garden, blankets, tor rinsing 218 

rubber, men's clothes, cleaning — 173 

silk, dusters, as 254 

Hot air bath 445 

heating system, as 82-84 

hot water combined with 85 

misnomer, a 84 

pipes, waste of heat, preventing .. 85 

preventing dryness of 64 

regulating |J 

water heating system 82-83 

hot air, combined with 85 

House cleaning, fall 260 

hints 265 

preparations for 261 

rules tor 261 

spring 260 

turnisblng 33 

importance of 33 

Influence of 33 



PAQB 

House, Ice, construction of an 120 

painting, rules for 364 

Household remedies 326 

weights and measures 628 

Houseleeks, flies, preventives against. 322 

Housewife, old-fashioned 239 

Hungary water, preparation of 481 

Husks, mattresses, for 62 

Hydrocarbons, coal, in 81 

Hydrochloric acid, blacking, liquid, tor 424 

bleaching agent, a powerful 169 

brass, bronzing for 402 

ink, for blue 430 

paste blacking, tor 423 

poisoning from 651 

test for 668 

tin, tor dissolving 393 

Hydrocyanic-acid gas, bedbugs, tor ex- 
terminating 313 

carpet beetles, tor destroying 311 

cockroaches, for destroying 311 

fleas, for destroying 314 

moths, for destroying 307 

white ants, for destroying 321 

Hydrogen gas, how made 411 

• ivory, for gilding ,411 

illuminating gas, in 95 

kerosene, In 103 

peroxide of 510 

sunburn, tor 465 

Hyposulphite of soda, slivering, for .. 413 
Hysteria, convulsions from 661 

Ice US 

antiseptic US 

bags 121 

box, making an 121 

boxes, drainage of 119 

breaking 122 

candles, preventing, from dripping . 109 

chest, making 121 

chocolate. Invalids, for 671 

compress, making 662 

cream, invalid's 669 

domestic harvest 119 

harvesting commercial 118 

house, building 120 

construction of 120 

drainage of 119 

filling 120 

making an 120 

protection of 120 

meats, for preserving 118 

nature of 118 

preservation of 119-122 

rails, stored in pen of 121 

sick room, keeping, in 661 

uses of 118 

vegetables, for preserving 118 

water cooling without 115 

prostration from 652 

Ices, candy, for 542 

Icing, application of 643 

boiled 643 

cake, for 642 

ornamentation of 643 

uncooked 642 

Illuminating oil, testing 101 

Illumination, acetylene gas 99-100 

artificial 94 

systems of 94 

Illusion, lace curtains, tor mending... 46 

Incense 478 

compounding 476 

pastilles, compounding 476 

Inch boards, measuring 618 

subdivisions of the 613 

Indelible ink, making 165-429 

removing 166 

India Ink, making 428 

shellac varnish. In 369 



•706 



INDEX 



PAGE 

India Inli, test for 429 

plokle 575 

rubber, cement, for 345 

cloth, waterproofing 93 

flexible varnisti, in 368 

harness, for waterproofing 425 

leatlier, for waterproofing 423 

marine glue, for 346 

mixtures of 422 

nature of 338 

waterproof varnish, in 368 

Indian pudding, ash pan, cooking, in 127 

Indigestion, sleeplessness, cause of 152 

Indigo, blacking, for 424 

carmine, ink, for blue 430 

French polish, for coloring 379 

harness, for 425 

ink, in 427 

for indelible :.... 429 

for printing 432 

In marking 428 

toilet preparations, for 461 

Indoors, painting woodwork 355 

Industrial alcohol 109 

Infant's bed 67 

hot- weather care of 672 

teeth 503 

Influence, educational, passing of 66 

Ingrain carpet 39 

carpets, wearing qualities of 43 

paper, dado, for 38 

fading of 56 

hanging 282 

living rooms, for 37 

mats, for picture 67 

walls, for 36 

Ingrowing nails : 456 

Initials, working 248 

Injury, first-aid 648 

Ink, absorbents for 169 

black, blacking, tor 424 

kid, for 420 

making 426 

stencil 429 

blue 430 

bronze 430 

care of 432 

chrome-logwood, composition of 165 

making 427 

colored writing 429 

copying, making 428 

removal of 166 

eraser 70 

tartaric acid as 70 

faded, restoring 432 

floors, removal from 277 

freezing, to keep, from 432 

gold 430 

green 430 

hectograph 431 

indelible 165, 429 

linens, removing from 166 

nature of 429 

removing 166 

India 428 

black goods, white spots on 176 

nature of 428 

Invisible 430 

iron-gall, stains, citric acid for 157 

removal of 166 

leather, removal from 418 

linen, removal of, from 168 

lithographic 432 

luminous 431 

marking, linen, removal from 166-168 

making 428 

silver nitrate used in 412 

metal label 431 

mold, prevention of 432 

nature of 426 

nitrate of silver potassium, removal of 166 



PAGB 

Ink, oiliness, removal from 432 

printer's 432 

dryers for 432 

removing 167 

printing 432 

red, making 429 

rubber-stamp 431 

show-card 430 

silver 430 

■ removal from 144 

spots, floors, removal from 277 

oxalic acid, removal of, with 156 

tartaric acid for 157 

testing 165 

stains 70, 173 

bleaching powder for 160 

books, on 70 

carpets, removal from 271 

colored goods, on 167-173 

furniture, removal from 288 

gloves, on 177, 179 

removal from 179 

linen, on 166 

linens, removing, from 166-167 

removing 432 

treatment of , 165 

stylographic 165 

sympathetic 430 

thickening, prevention of 432 

violet 430 

writing 426 

yellow 430 

Inks, chrome-logwood 427 

colored 429 

copying 428 

marking 428 

nutgall 165 

show-card 430 

Inlaid work, brass, cleaning 291 

Insect bites, remedy for 648 

treatment of 655 

pests, books, of 69 

powder, fleas, on dogs, for 316 

Persian 69 

fleas, for destroying 314 

mosquitoes, for repelling 326 

Insects, painting, avoiding, in 354 

soap, for repelling 451 

Insertion, cutting 248 

garments, sewing on 248 

Instruments, cement for 344 

musical, varnish for 374 

steel, rust, preservation from 409 

Interior work, paints for 353 

Intestine cases, sausages, for 596 

Invalid, diet of 665 

Inventory, house cleaning, for 260 

of furniture, library desk. In the .. 69 

Iodine 167 

acid stains, removal of 172 

aluminum corroded by 397 

chloroform dissolved by 159 

linen, removal of 167 

nitric acid stains on linen, removal 

of 167 

poisoning from 650 

silver, removal from 144 

soap 451 

stains, ammonia for 158 

linen, removal from 169 

prevention of 165 

removal of 165 

turpentine, dissolved by 159 

Iodoform, poisoning from 650 

Ipecac, vomiting, for 649 

Iron 388 

bath tub, painting an 442 

beds 61-62 

wooden, substituted for 62 

bronze paint tor 402 

casehardening 335 



INDEX 



707 



PAGE 

I [ron, cast, tempering 386 

color, bronze 402 

compounds of 385 

copper color for 389 

solution for 406 

cyanides of 385 

electricity, plating, without 406 

electroplating silver on 406 

electrotypes, for 389 

fences, varnish for 369 

filings, blue paint, in .-. 363 

fireproof paint, for 361 

ironware cements, for 348 

leaks, for stopping 264 

steel joints, for soldering 386 

-gall ink, carpets, removal from 271 

galvanized, carbage cans, tor 146 

hot, velvet, restoring 245 

kettles, cleaning 137 

leather, fastening, to ; 346 

for black •. 417 

lettering on 409 

mold, oxalic acid, removal of, with. . 166 

removal of 164 

nature of 384 

pig, nature of 385 

pipes, water supply for 112 

polished, keeping 388 

polishing 288, 38&-389 

posts, zinc for setting 389 

regalvanizing 400 

rust 164 

citric acid for 157 

linen, removal from 168 

marble, removal from 294 

nature of 297 

-proof paint tor 388 

protecting from 388 

removing 167 

treatment of 164 

shovels, varnish for 369 

sinks, care of 146 

softening 385 

solder 386, 394 

stains 70 

books, on •••• _70 

sulphate of, black, reviving faded... 176 

blue paint, in 363 

feathers, renovating 180 

fioors, for staining 274 

jewelry, tor polishing 433 

tannate of, ink, in 426 

inks, nutgall, in 165 

removal of 166 

temper, drawing 385 

tempering ■ • - 385 

tincture of, brass, black dipping tor 401 

tinning 393, 406 

welding 386 

work, asphaltum varnish for 372 

wrought 385 

Ironing ^J? 

board, arrangement of ^^ 

covers for 227, 232 

hanging up 227 

day ,,,..,,.......••••••••■■•••••••••■•• ^"^ 

gas, with"." 132 

hints J^J 

machine 226 

utensils, care of 225 

Irons, care of 226 

fiuting, ruffles, for ^2b 

heating 227 

holders for fff 

rust, prevention of jj» 

sewing room, in the 236 

testing heat of 227 

Ironware cements 347 

clean, keeping 137 

dust, removal of ■• 137 

mending 344, 386 



PAGE 

Ironware, rust, removal from 137 

tempered 129 

washing 133 

Ironwork, asphalt varnish, black, for 368 

painting, specifications tor 358 

varnish tor 369 

Isinglass 337 

adheslves 342 

cement, in 349 

cloth, waterproofing 93 

gelatin, composed of 337 

leather furniture, tor 418 

melting 337 

nature of 337, 342 

portable glue, in 342 

rouge, for 473 

size 374 

molding, in regllding 412 

starch, with 225 

testing 338 

Itch, barber's 499 

Ivory black, blacking, liquid for 424 

bronze paint, in 402 

French polish, for coloring 379 

harness, for blacking 425 

leather furniture, tor 418 

jet for 426 

nature of 423 

paint, in 364 

paste blacking, for 423 

patent leather, for 424 

sealing wax, for 375 

shoes, in waterproofing 422 

Chinese cement for 343 

cleaning 292 

etching on 435 

gilding 411 

-handled knives 141 

bleaching 142 

care of 141 

hardening : 434 

mucilage tor 340 

polishing 434 

silvering 414 

softening 434 

veneers, mucilage tor 340 

Japan dryer, floors, for 274 

varnish, bath tub, for painting .... 442 

Japanese cement 339 

making 339 

Japanned ware, cleaning 139 

white marks, removal from ^ . . 139 

Jar, rose 478 

Jardini&re, tahoret, for 63 

Jars, covering tor 660 

fruit, testing 652 

glass fruit, uses for 335 

Jasmine, essence of, sachet, tor 477 

tinctures, for 479 

Javelle water, acid stains, on linen, 

removal of 16T 

kid gloves, for 178-179 

making and use of 160 

tannin stains, removal of 167 

Jaw, fracture of 659 

Jellies, fruit 54T 

Jelly, calf's-foot, gelatin, composed of 337 

cream bonbons 527 

rolls 534 

soap 208 

Jet black varnish, leather, for 434 

cleaning 434 

leather, tor 425 

Jets, cellars, for 262 

Jewelers, Armenian cement tor 342 

cement tor 342 

rouge, jewelry, cleaning 144 

sawdust, glassware, for polishing. . . 140 

Jewelry, brazing 401 

brightening 434 



708 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Jewelry, bronze for 391 

care of 433 

Chinese cement for 343 

cleaning 144, 433 

fineness of 408 . 

gold, alloy of, for 409 

polishing 433 

silver 412 

cleaning 413 

storing 433 

varnish for repairing 371 

Juniper tar soap 451 

Junket, invalids, tor 668 

Kalydor, complexion, for the 464 

Karat, weight of 407 

Kerosene 100 

annual cost of 94 

ant nests, for destroying 320 

bathroom, for cleaning the 268 

bedbugs, for exterminating 313 

burning, putting out 91 

test 102 

can for ; 148 

carpets, for 255 

removal from 271 

when sweeping 269 

clocks, for cleaning 293 

cod-liver oil, removal of 167 

copper ware, for polishing 137 

curtains, for washing 214 

emulsion, insects, for destroying. 328-330 

spraying, for 328 

fire, for extinguishing 91 

fires, for lighting 105 

fiash, 110° 102 

test 102 

files, preventive against 322 

fioors, for scouring 276 

stained, for cleaning 275 

fuel, as 81 

furniture, for cleaning 287 

gas range, for cleaning 131 

gilt picture frames, for cleaning .... 289 

harness, for cleaning 425 

Illumination, for 100 

improvement of 105 

irons, for 227 

kindling, as 126 

lamps 100 

laundry, in the 204 

lice, destruction of, by spraying with 327 

lighter, fire 105 

marble, for cleaning 294 

metal bedstead, for washing 266 

mosquitoes, for destroying 324 

mud stains, removal of 167 

paint, coarse, for cleaning 278 

painted sink, for 146 

(petroleum, see) 

product of 101 

pianos, for 289 

purifying 102 

rugs, brightening colors of 258 

scratches, from furniture, removal of 288 

screws, for loosening 336 

sewing machine, for cleaning 236 

shoes, for 421 

steel fittings, for cleaning 128 

knives and forks, for cleaning 141 

stoves, rust, preventing 297 

table oilcloths, for 268 

teakettle, for avoiding lime in 138 

test of 101 

tins, for scouring 138 

washing fluids, for 206 

for 208 

whetstones, for 378 

white goods, for bleaching 1S6 

zinc, for cleaning 299 

Kettle, grease, for 133 



PAGB 

Kettle, grease, for preserving 189 

lids, handles of 139 

set, soap making, in 187 

Kettles, copper, brazing 400 

cleaning 137 

fur on 138 

greasy, washing fluid for 205 

hot, shelf for 76 

sandpaper for 137 

tempering 386 

Key, skeleton 286 

Keys, fitUng 287 

piano, alcohol for 289 

cleaning 289 

Kid, black, color of, restoring 420 

olive oil for 178 

boots, care of 420 

gloves, black silk, for 171 

cleaning 179 

milk. for 178 

old, ink for 429 

polishing 179 

renovating 178 

shoes, house, for mending 420 

white, cleaning 420 

Kidderminster carpet 39 

Kidney disease, convulsions from 651 

Kindling 123 

fires without smoke 88 

gas as 126 

kerosene as 126 

paper as 125 

pine cones as 126 

wood as 125 

Kindlings 125 

making 126 

Kinks, clotheslines, to avoid, in 220 

Kisses, candy 517-537 

Kitchen 73 

blotters in 76 

boiler, gas-water heaters attached to 87 

cabinet 79 

color for 74 

conveniences for 73 

cupboard in 133 

dresses 247 

floor 74 

floors, covering for 42 

glue paint for 362 

hinged table for 134 

linoleum for 40 

lounge 7T 

homemade 77 

rack, utensils for 75 

range, care of 128 

shelf in 133 

sinks 74 

slate 77 

stool for 134 

table 75 

homemade 75 

walls 74 

wares, care of 137 

Kitchens, paper for, waterproof oil- 
cloth 37 

Knife blades, rust, protecting, from.. 388 

handles, fastening 141 

ivory, bleaching 142 

Knit goods, drying 221 

Knitted shawls, washing 217 

Knives and forks, steel, washing 141 

carving, care of 141 

Ivory-handled 141 

steel 141 

care of 141 

scouring 141 

table 299 

washing 141 

Knot killing 355 

quilting, tying 66 

Knots, killing 



INDEX 



^09 



PAGE 

Knots, painting 354 

Knotting 354 

Koumiss, invalids, for 667-671 

Label, metal, ink for 431 - 

mucilage 340 

Labeling ink, acid-proof 369 

metal, shellac cement for 343 

Labels 78 

casein cement for 345 

Laborers, soap for 195 

Lac 365-366 

paint, cotton, on 42 

resin, nature of 366 

varnish, nature of 365 

varnishes 368-369 

shellac in 368 

Lace 211 

Battenburg 212 

black, ironing 213 

sponging 213 

washing 213 

boiling 212 

box for 235 

crape, cleaning 176 

curtains 211 

airing 213 

bedspreads, for 63 

launder, when to ....'. 213 

mending 46 

doing up 230 

drying 212, 230 

dry-cleaning 173 

edging, laundry, preparation of, for 212 

flatiron for 226 

gold, cleaning 173 

hanging out 220 

ironing 228, 230 

mending 242 

point 212 

rinsing 212 

silver, cleaning 173 

soaking 212 

soap for 198 

jelly for 198, 212 

starching 230 

storing 310 

sudsing 212 

tinting 230 

veil, white, washing 213 

waists, laundry, to prepare, for 211 

wash, preparation for the 212 

washing 211 

white, washing 211 

whitening 185 

wrinkles, removal of, from 230 

Lacquer, gold 407 

metals, for 407 

transparent 407 

Lacquers 370 

denatured alcohol, used in 110 

Lactic acid, uses of 157 

using 157 

Lamp, alcohol, tea table, for 53 

workroom, in the 335 

carbon 104 

carrying, when 103 

chimneys 102 

breaking, prevention of 149 

care of 149 

cleaning 148 

draught of 102 

fit of 102 

object of 102 

polishing 148 

selection of 103 

shape of 102 

hot, don't open 102 

moving -102 

kerosene, cost per hour 94-95 

health, effect of, on 94-95 

lampblack M^ 



PAQE 

Lamp, night, sick room, for the 664 

smoking, avoiding 102 

soot 104 

student, level, keeping 105 

principle of 101 

trimming 102 

wicks, making 149 

towels, for 136 

Lampblack, black paint, in 364 

blackboards, for 361 

chemical soap, in 162 

harness, for 418 

ink. In 426 

for printing 432 

in marking 428 

Indelible, in 165 

India, for 429 

lamps, in 104 

metals, rust, protecting, from 298 

nature of 423 

sealing wax, for 375 

varnish, glossy black, gives 370 

waterproofing and blacking 94 

Lamps, bronze, care of 149 

care of 102, 147, 148, 149 

chemistry of 103 

chimney, wrong 102 

cleaning 148 

explosion of, preventing 103 

filling 102-lOS 

fire, on 105 

fiame, putting out 103 

gas arc 99 

kerosene 100 

lacquer, care of 149 

mending 149 

metal, care of 149 

night, breathing, effect on 104 

oil, principle of 101 

selection of 101 

radiators on 86 

smoking, prevention of 104-149 

student 104 

unclean 102 

wick, poor 102 

Land measure, comparative 617 

rules for 615 

U. S. Government 616 

waste, estimate of 616 

Lantern, foot warmer, as 105 

Lanterns, Chinese 105 

sand in 105 

Lard, adulteration of 600 

bleaching 600 

candles from 107 

cocoanut, marine soap, in 450 

cold cream, for 470 

doors, for creaking 286 

finger nails, for 455 

under the 128 

gas range, for 131 

grass stains, linen, removal from... 167 

harness, for 425 

oil, fly paper, for 323 

lubricator, as a 377 

shoes, for 421 

palls, uses of 78 

rectified, nails, for toughening 456 

rouge, for 472 

rust on irons, prevention of 226 

sealing wax, for soft 376 

shoes, for squeaking 420 

soap, for 188 

soft soap, for 191 

starch with 224 

storing 600 

tar, removal of 164,173 

from silk 171 

tinware, new, protection of 138 

wash boilers, cleaning 138 

Lath boxes, vegetables, for 609 



710 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Lathes, workroom. In the 335 

Lathing, cost of 614 

Laudanum, poisoning from 650 

poisonous fly paper, for 322 

Laundry bag, 'bathroom, for the 443 

bags, making 154 

closet, the 165 

curtains, preparation for 214 

linoleum for 40 

list, library desk, in the 69 

rain water for 116 

rinsiiig 202 

soft water for 203 

sorting 154 

stains, removal from 155 

the 200 

utensils 200 

for 200 

water for 203 

supply ^ 203 

Laurel leaves, toilet water, for 480 

Lavender, bedding, in storing 268 

bookbinder's varnish, in 373 

flies, preventive against 322 

flour paste, in 339 

flowers, sachet, for 477 

toilet water, for 480 

linen, for preserving 232 

mold, preventing 69 

moths, repellent for 306 

mucilage, for preserving 341 

oil of, gold lacquer, for 407 

ink, in marking 428 

perfume, for 476 

water 481 

almond cream, in 467 

preparation of 481 

Lawn, origin of word 182 

Lawns, doing up 224 

gum arable, starching, with 225 

salt tor 208 

soap, should not be rubbed with 208 

starching 225 

washing, careful 208-209 

Lead, acetate of, cloth, waterproofing 93 

ink, for invisible 431 

nature of 392 

paint, dryer for 353 

waterproofing and blacking 94 

adhesives 346 

black, ironware cement, for 348 

color paint 364 

glass globes, in silvering 414 

grains, in 392 

nature of 391 

pipes, protection of 264 

water supply for 112 

sheet, damp walls, for 284 

preparation of 392 

solder for 394 

sugar of, awnings, waterproofing.,.. 94 

canvas tents, waterproofing 94 

cloth, waterproofing 93 

poisoning from 650 

sulphide of, lead pipes, for protect- 
ing 264 

test for 405 

tree 392 

white, awnings, waterproofing 94 

canvas tents, waterproofing 94 

cement, in 348 

testing 392 

Leaders, cellars, for 262 

cement for 346 

tar varnish for 372 

Leaks, cement for filling 347 

chimneys, stopping In 88 

gas 99 

stopping 264 

yellow soap for 199 

Leather, black balls for 426 



PAGE 

Leather, black, grain side, for 417 

varnish for 425 

blacking for 423 

bronze for 403 

care of 417 

cement for 345, 349 

cleaning 156 

coloring 417 

dyeing 417 

furniture, care of 418 

gilding 411 

size, for 411 

glue for 341-342 

grain side black for 417 

grease, removal from 418 

imitations of, walls for 36 

ink, removal from 418 

iron, fastening to 346 

holders 22 

jet for 425 

liming 415 

metal, fastening to 350 

mildew, removal from 418 

nature of 415 

patent, care of 424 

polish for 425 

restoring softness of 41S 

Russian, moths, repellent for 30e 

scraps, draperies, for 48 

screens, for 49 

softness, restoring 418; 

steel, fastening to 346 

stove holders, for 129 

sweating 415 

tanning 415 

varnish for 372 

jet black for 425 

waterproofing 421 

Leaves, black currant, sachet, for .... 477 

table, storing 73 

Legs, bleeding of 654 

Lemon caramels 537 

cream drops 53^ 

essence of, silk, removal of paint 

from 171 

ice, invalids, for 669 

ink stains on linen, removal of 167 

juice, acid principle of 157 

alabaster, for cleaning 436 

colored goods, on 157i 

colors, for fixing 210 

complexion, for the 464 

freckles, for 462 

hands, for moist 452 

ink, removal of 166 

iron rust, for 164 

marble, removal from 295 

ivory knife handles, bleaching 142 

for cleaning 292 

mildew, removal of 164 

nails, for whitening the 456 

poison, antidote for 650 

prints, for cleaning 291 

rouge, for 473 

scouring mixture, in 162 

skin, for the 464 

stains, hands, removal from 45S 

straw hats, for cleaning 18C 

tea and coffee stains, for 164 

water, for making palatable IIE 

match stains, removal of 27S 

oil of, Florida water, for 482 

•perfume, for 47f 

sachet, for 471 

peel, dried, sachet, for iTi 

preserving 55i 

toilet water, for 48( 

salts of, application of 15f 

cream of tartar in 15! 

nature of I5i 

salts of sorrel in 15! 



INDEX 



711 



PAGE 

Lemon sugar, preparation ot 542 

vases, cleaning 140 

wliey, invalids, for 670 

Lemonade, invalids, tor 670 

Irish-moss 669 

Lemons, pickled 679 

Length, measures of 643 

Lettering, bronze, with 403 

Library, the 68 

educational influence of 6S 

magazine covers for 67 

paste, making 339 

pictures for 55 

use of the 68 

Lice, chickens, on 327 

Licorice lozenges 540 

Light and color 36 

artificial, health, effect on ,. 95 

-colored worsteds, cleaning 177 

reflecting into cistern 106 

well 106 

regulating 45 

vest-pocket 105 

Lighting 81, 110 

candles , 109 

denatured alcohol 110 

fires, kerosene for 105 

systems, cost of 94 

Lightning accidents 653 

Lima beans, storing 607 

Limb, wounded , 647 

Lime, arsenite of, London purple, in. 330 

cement, for 340 

chloride of, bleaching agent 181 

cockroaches, for exterminating . . . 311 

ink, linen, removal from 166 

mildew, removal ot 164 

rat holes, for 316 

sheeting, tor bleaching 183 

spraying with 330 

soap, in 451 

damp walls, for drying 284 

dampness, removal of 263 

green paint, in 363 

hard water, softening 115 

ivory, bleaching 142 

for cleaning 292 

paint, for 363 

use ot 360 

refrigerators, for 122 

slacked, floors, for scouring 275 

smelling salts, for 480 

stearin, making 108 

steel, for bluing 387 

sulphur-salt, San Jos6 scale, for ... 327 

test for 115 

unslacked, metals, rust, protecting 

from 298 

wash, San Jos6 scale, against 331 

water, tor clarifying 116 

carbonic-acid gas, test for 69 

earthenware, cleaning 138 

feathers, tor purifying 267 

freckle lotion, in 463 

poison, antidote for 649 

sunburn lotions, in 465 

tan, dyeing 43 

teakettle, avoiding in 138 

white paint, in 362 

whitewash, in 279 

wicks, for candle 107 

wood floors, tor cleaning 275 

Limestone, paint, mixing 364 

Linear measure 612 

scales for 013 

uncommon 61., 

Linen, Aberdeen, curtains, for 45 

acid stains on 168 

bed, clothes hamper for 154 

bleaching 182 

Jactip »oid for 157 



FAGB 

Linen, blood stains on 169 

buying 231 

closet 231 

coffee stains on 169 

cover, cushions, for chair 60 

dampness, preserving from 232 

dress, blue, uses of 247 

brown, uses of 247 

embroidering 248 

fruit stains on 169 

" hollands " 182 

India, curtains, for 45 

ink, indelible for 429 

removal from 168 

Insects, preserving from 232 

iodine stains on 169 

Iron rust, removal from 168 

Ironing 228 

lace, washing 211 

marking 231-232 

ink, removal from 166-168 

mildew, removal from 168 

mold, removal from 168 

muriatic acid for 158 

old emergencies, for 663 

uses of 232 

oxalic acid, application of 156 

packing 309-310 

pillows, covering 50 

raw, bleaching 183 

sheeting, for 6t 

sheets, bedcovers, for 62 

hot nights, for sleep on 153 

stains, removal from 166,168 

stamped, duplication of 232 

sterilized, medicine closet, in 662 

sterilizing 663 

storing 231, 232, 310 

table, hemming 232 

soiled 154 

stains, removal from 168 

tartaric acid tor 158 

tea stains, removal from 169 

vegetable fiber 163 

wall covering, as 38 

wash, preparation for 232 

waterproofing 93 

white, ink stains, removal from 166 

wine stains, removal from 169 

yellow stains, removal from 168 

Linens, solid colored, fixing 211 

sprinkled, not to be 222 

storing 232, 310 

washing, careful 209 

white, pipe clay, for ._^. 208 

Lingerie, laundry, to prepare for 211 

Lining, guilts, for 66 

Linoleum 40 

bathroom, for 67 

cleaning 258 

floors, sweeping 255 

kitchen floor, for 40-74 

laundry 40 

library floors, for 68 

linings for 40 

painting, pantry, for 40 

renewal of 41 

rugs, background for 40 

sitting room, in the 42 

substitute for 42 

varnishing 40 

Linoleums, waxing 259 

Linseed oil, asphalt dissolved by 367 

awnings, waterprooflng 94 

barrel paint, for 362 

boiled, varnish, foundation for 380 

brass, for cleaning 293 

bronze paint, in 402 

brushes, tor cleaning 360 

canvas tents, waterprooflng 94 

cloth, waterprooflng ,.., 93 



712 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Linseed oil, cold drawn, mahogany 

furniture, for 378 

dado, in cloth for 38 

flaxseed, from 352 

floors, for 274 

furniture, bruises, removal of 288 

for 289 

for cleaning 277 

for polishing 381 

gilt frames, for mending 291 

grates, for blackening 297 

hands, for the 454 

ink, for printing 432 

iron, for polishing 389 

ironware cements, for 348 

kinds of , 352 

leather, for waterproofing 422-423 

linoleum, in 40 

musical instruments, tor 289 

oilcloth, for 258 

oil_, fixed vegetable 376 

paints, for 352 

patent leather, for 424 

priming, for 354 

putty, in 356 

raw 352 

blacking, paste, tor 424 

rosin, for dissolving 366 

rubber cement, for 345 

shoes, tor preserving 418 

squeaking, for 420 

stained floors, tor 275 

stone varnish, in 372 

table oilcloth, for polishing 259 

washing powder, in 207 

waterproof varnish, in 368 

waterproofing and blacking 94 

wood filler, as 255 

for gilding on 410 

Lint, medicine closet, in 662 

Lips, chapped 473 

Liquid blacking 424 

glue 341 

Spalding's 342 

measure 620-621 

domestic 630 

dry measure, comparison of, and. . 622 

tables of 622 

pickling, meat, for 591 

rouge 472 

soldering, making 393 

Liquors, vinegar, for 562 

List, shopping 235 

Listerlne, medicine case, in 649 

nails, for the 456 

Litharge cements 347 

fiexible varnish, in 368 

leather, tor waterproofing 423 

nature of 391-392 

putty, in ■ 356 

Lithographic ink 432 

Living rooms 51 

brown for the 36 

green tor the 36 

Llama dresses, washing 216 

Lock, burglar-proof 286 

Lockjaw, germ of 648 

Logwood, black silk, for cleaning 171 

chips, black, reviving faded 176 

floors, tor staining 274 

men's clothes, renovating 175 

renovating, dye for 174 

chrome, ink 427 

extract of, blacking, tor 424 

ink, in copying 428 

feathers, renovating 180 

harness, tor 425 

ink, carpets, removal from 271 

in 165, 426, 427 

leather, blacking for 417 

London purple, arsenite of lime In 330 



PAGB 

London purple, spraying, tor 330 

"Londonderry," steamer 58 

Long measure 612 

Longitude and time 637 

Loofah, spots, for 156 

stains, for 156 

Lotion, hands, for the 261 

Lotions 484 

Lots, small, dimensions of 617 

Lounge, kitchen, homemade 77 

Lozenges 540 

fruit 534 

Lubricants 377 

purification ot 378 

Lubricating oils, petroleum, see. 

Lubricator, drills, for 378 

wood 378 

Lubricators 376 

Lumber measure 618 

Luminous ink 431 

Lump-lac varnish, nature ot 366 

Lunar caustic, surgery, used in 412 

Luxury, air of 37 

Lye, bottles, cleaning with 140 

brass, for cleaning 300 

caustic potash 205 

washing fiuid 205 

soda 205 

making 188 

preparing 194 

soap from 197 

washing fluid 205 

colors, dark, for fixing 211 

cooking utensils, for greasy 137 

discolored silver, cleaning 143 

dishes, for greasy 133 

fabrics, rots 186 

nature ot 187 

potash, ashes, to make from 188 

burners, for 149 

films, tor removing 56 

soap making, in 187 

soda, burners, for 149 

strength, standard 188 

utensils, for greasy 133 

water, burners, for 102 

Macaroons 517, 534 

Mace, linen, tor preserving ', . 232 

Machine, darning by 242 

grease, removal of 167 

sal soda tor removing 167 

needles, sharpening 238 

oil, needles, rusty, tor 238 

sewing, care of 235 

use of 235 

shop men, soap tor 195 

washing 20I 

Machinery, bronze, ot 390 

Machines, dishwashing 134 

Mackintosh, cleaning a 174 

don'ts in cleaning a 174 

white, cleaning a . . . .' 245 

Madeira vine, veranda, tor 80 

Magazine covers, den, for 57 

library, for 57 

Magazines, disposition ot 265 

Magenta, ink, for indelible 429 

Magnesia, absorbent, as an 159 

calcined, lace, for cle&ning 173 

carbonate of, rose water, for 480 

cream, complexion, tor the 464 

furs, for cleaning 309 

gloves, tor dry-cleaning 178 

grease, tor removal ot 170 

poison, antidote tor 649 

powdered, lace, when packing 310 

sealing wax, in 374 

silk, white, tor cleaning 1'72 

sulphate ot, fabrics, flreproofing 92 

teeth, tor the 6O6 



1NDE2C 



Yl3 



PAGE 

Magnesia, toilet powders. In 471 

Magnet, horseshoe, needles, for pick- 
ing up 238 

Mahogany, chairs ot 53 

furniture, coloring 378 

paste for 382 

silk walls, with 38 

varnish for 370 

Imitating 274 

Mail-order plan, possibility ot 34 

Making over 245 

useful hints for 246-247 

Malaria, mosaultoes, from 323 

Malleability, metals, ot 383 

property of 383 

Malt vinegar 664 

Mangle, cold 226 

Mangles 226 

Mangoes, peach . . . . , 682 

pickling 574 

Manicuring 455 

finger nails 455 

nails, the 456 

Manila rope, dishcloths, for 136 

Mantel, Welsbach, changing a . . . 98 

Mantels, iron wire for 47 

marble, cleaning 294 

Manual work, educational value of .. 333 

Manuscripts, faded, restoring 70 

Maple bonbons, cocoanut 527 

caramels 537 

creams 525 

sirup candy 530 

sugar, clarification of 518 

Maps, ethereal varnish for 372 

library, for the 69 

mastic for 366 

water-color paint for 353 

varnish for 372 

Marble, artificial, making 436 

cement for 340-347 

tor joining 346 

cleaning 294 

clippings, unpainted fioors, for clean- 
ing 275 

dust, soap, for scouring 198 

iron rust, removal ot, from 294 

isinglass for 342 

kettles, preventing fur on 138 

oil stains, removal of 295 

polishing 295 

sealing wax 375 

stains, removal from 295 

steps, cleaning 295 

Marihe glue 346 

compounding 349 

lamps, denatured alcohol, heated with 111 

soap 198, 450 

Marjoram, toilet waters, for 480 

Marker, crayon as 240 

Marking Ink, linen, for 232 

making 428 

Inks 428 

Marks, finger, furniture, removal of, 

from 287 

pencil, rubber eraser for 155 

white, furniture, removal of, from.. 287 

Marseilles nougat 538 

soap 198 

Marsh gas, illuminating gas, In 95 

silver, enemy of 142 

test for 59 

Marshihallow bonbons, cocoanut 527 

Marshmallows 517, 538 

Masquere's acid soap 198 

Mastic 366 

compound cement, in 349 

marine glue, in 349 

French polish, in 379 

gum, Armenian cement, tor 342 

varnish 373 



PAGE 

Mastic varnish, nature of 366 

in 372 

oil paints, for 373 

Mat, asbestos ^ 130 

door 80 

making 80 

Matches 126 

care ot 130 

ordinary, making 437 

safety, making 436 

stains, removal of 278 

Mats, dinner, asbestos, protection of. 130 
picture .*. . 57 

Matting, bedrooms, in 42 

brightening 258 

cleaning 258 

fioor, cleaning on 272 

grease spots, removal of, from 272 

house cleaning, when 266 

India, bathroom, for 67 

laying 272 

library floor, for 68 

nights, hot, for sleeping on ..' 153 

parlor, in the 42 

removing stains from 272 

rugs 44 

as 272 

making 44 

use oC 44 

sewing room, for 42 

sitting room, for 42 

stains, removal of, from 272 

straw, purchasing 44 

sweeping 255 

taking up 272 

wrappings of 5(h 

Mattings, fleas, favor 314 

straw, carpet beetles, avoid 310 

Mattress, airing 146-147 

brush, on cleaning day 14T 

couch, for 52 

protector for 64 

sick room, for 66S 

top, cotton blanket for 64 

woolen blanket for 64 

Mattresses 62 

cleaning 266-267 

curled hair for 62 

excelsior for 62 

felted cotton for 62 

husks for 62 

straw for 62 

suitable 62 

Meal, rye, wood cement, in 349 

Mealy bugs, kerosene emulsion for . . . 32& 

Measure, tape 240 

Measures, comparison of 626; 

of value 641 

weights and 611 

Meat chopper, soap making in 187 

cold storage for 118 

cooked, preservation of 598 

curing 690 

diet of 648 

flies, preserving, from 589 

fresh, keeping 5SS 

frozen, keeping 590 

ice, preserving, with 118 

packing 591 

pickling 591 

liquid for 591 

preparation of, for 591 

preservation of 587 

red pickling liquid for 693 

rusty 592 

salting 590, 692 

tainted 592 

sweetening 599 

Mechanical instruments, bronze for . . 391 

Mechanics, soap for 195 

Medals, bronze for 403 



1U 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Medicated soap 450 

Medicine bottles, cleaning 140 

case, contents of 648 

closet, emergency requirements in . . 662 

measuring 661 

stains, silver, removal of, from 144 

Melons, pickled 582 

pickling 574 

Mending 240 

day 234 

fabrics, delicate 242 

garments, moth-eaten 242 

pieces 241 

providing 241 

stockings by hand 244 

table linen 240 

tissue 241-345 

white goods 242 

Men's clothes, mending 242 

pressing 174-175 

renovating 175 

coats, packing 302 

garments, dry-cleaning 173 

woolen clothes, cleaning 175 

Mercury, bichloride of, poisoning from 650 

cockroaches, for destroying 311 

glass globes, in silvering 414 

mirrors, to coat, with 393 

nature of 398 

nitrate of, electroplating, in 400 

silver tree, for making 413 

test for 405 

testing 398 

Merino, washing 216 

Mesquite, gum, nature of 366 

Metal beds, renovating 266 

dipping, brass, kind of 390 

expansion 392 

joints, cement for 349 

label Ink 431 

labeling, cement for 343 

lamps 149 

mucilage for 340 

roofs, painting, specifications for ... 358 
tops, flour cement, for attaching ... 339 

type 392 

white, bronze for 391 

Metals, alloys of 384 

amalgams of 384 

bronzing for 401 

cement for 343-345 

cleaning 293 

coating 399 

conductivity, of 383 

coppering solutions for 400 

ductility of 383 

fusibility of 383 

gilding 409 

gilt, cleaning 294 

hardness of 384 

lacquers for 407 

malleability of 383 

painting, preparation of, for 357 

paste for 293 

plated, testing 405 

properties of 383 

rosin for soldering 366 

rust, preservation from 298 

scouring 156 

silvering 413 

specifle gravity of 382-383 

Meter, gas engine. Is an 95 

Meters, gas 95 

inspectors, tested by 96 

reading 96 

Methods, labor-saving, laundry, in .. 204 

Metric system, unit of 612 

weights and measures of 642 

Mica, isinglass, not 342 

Mice, destruction of 315 

matches, keeping, from 130 



PAGE 

Mice, table linen. In 154 

Mildew 164-167 

absorbents for 159 

alum preservation against 164 

borax removing, from linen 167 

buttermilk for 157 

chlorine for 157 

cotton, removal from 183 

duck cloth, removing from 183 

dust, in 252 

leather, removal from 418 

linen, on 168 

pipeclay for 159 

plants, on 329 

prevention of 164 

removing ■ 164 

salt for 157 

soap for 159 

yellow, preservation against 164 

stains, citric acid, removal of, with 157 

treatment of 164 

walls, on 284 

Milk, acid principle of 157 

almonds, of 466 

complexion, for the 466 

babies, preparation of, for 672 

bottles, cleaning 140 

breast, exhausted, when 672 

cans 135 

washing 135 

casein cement, in 344 

dishes, washing 135 

fresh, matting, for cleaning 272 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

glue, waterproof, for 341 

hot, sleeplessness, preventing 152 

ink, invisible, for 430 

spots, for 173 

kid gloves, for 178 

for cleaning 179 

leather furniture, for cleaning 418 

mother's, babies, proper food for ... 672 

of lime, hides, for tanning 416 

oil paintings, for cleaning 290 

pans, washing 133 

pasteurizing 672 

petroleum products, burning, putting 

out 91 

poison, antidote for 649 

shoes, for 419 

silver, for polishing 143 

skim, crape lace, for cleaning 176 

matting, for 258 

oilcloth, for washing 258 

skimmed, paint, for thinning 360 

red paint, in 363 

skin, for the 463 

sour, ink, removal of 166 

stains, removal of 166 

tarnished silver, for polishing 144 

stains, butter for 168 

starching with 225 

sterilizing 672 

sweet, keeping 673 

table oilcloth, for washing 259 

wash boilers, cleaning 138 

white paint, for cleaning 278 

whitewash, in 279 

Milkweed, pillows, for fancy 49 

Mill, paint 352 

Mineral drugs, toilet preparations. In. 460 
oil, lubricant for heavy pressure ... 377 
petroleum, see. 
Minnow, top, mosquitoes, for destroy- 
ing 325 

Mint, fleas on dogs, for 315 

linen, for preserving 232 

sachet, for 477 

Mirrors, cleaning 286 

mercury tor 398 

to coat with 398 



INDEX 



715 



PAGE 

Mirrors, packing ...: 301 

polishing 286 

repairing 399 

Mission cliairs 63 

furniture, burlap walls, with 38 

oak, rooms, tor northeast 3S 

Miterbox, dado, for 38 

Mitten, polishing, stoves, polishing, for 128 

Mittens, stove holders, for 129 

Mixed pickles 575 

Mixtures, cleansing 161 

moths, to destroy 308 

scouring , 162 

Moir§ metalUque, tin plate, to orna- 
ment, with 393 

wall paper, mats, tor picture B7 

Moist hands 452 

Molasses, blacking, liquid, for 424 

candy 517 

making , 529 

clariflcation of 518 

leather furniture, for 418 

paste blacking, in 423 

taffy 528 

vinegar 663 

Mold, books, prevention, on 68-69 

essential oils, preventing 69 

floors, removal from 276 

ink, prevention from 427 

prevention in 432 

iron, removal of 164 

lavender preventing 69 

linen, removal from 168 

paste, preventing, in 340 

pennyroyal, preventing 69 

preserves, preventing, in 559 

prevention of 72 

vinegar, protecting, from 573 

walls, removal from 284 

Molding, dado, for stairway 39 

gilt, renewing 412 

picture, effect of 56 

wall, for painted 39 

Molds, dust in 252 

electrotyping 404 

plaster of Paris, for 435 

sirup for 520 

Moles, depilatories for 440 

removal of 440 

Monday, wash day 154 

Money, making 468 

toilet preparations, in 458 

preserving fruit, in 547 

saving 458 

toilet preparations, in 468 

United States 641 

Monogram, linen, for 429 

Mops, kitchen floors, for 275 

Moquette carpet '. 39 

domestic 39 

Morganic oxide, wood, flreprooflng ... 93 

Morning dresses 247 

glory, ice houses, for 120 

Morphine, poisoning from 6.50 

Morris chair, bed, as infant's 67 

crib, as 67 

lines of S3 

William Morris, inventor of 34-36 

Morris, William 35 

Mortar, stoves, for lining 348 

toilet preparations, for 461 

workroom, in the 335 

Mosaic gold, brass, kind of 390 

Mosquito, the 323 

anopheles =9 

bites, curing i 326 

preventing "26 

remedy for 655 

Mosquitoes, dangers from 323 

destruction of 324 

with flsh 325 



PAGES 

Mosquitoes, disease, bringing germs of 113 

drainage, to destroy by 325 

household remedies against 325 

kerosene for 324 

lor repelling 326 

life history of 324 

screens for 325 

Mother goose paper, nurseries, tor ... 37 

of pearl, cleaning 291 

polishing 296 

Moth balls, moths, tor 306 

buffalo 310 

clothes, history of 304 

-eaten garments, mending 242 

millers, trapping 308 

patches 440 

treatment for 440 

Moths, avoiding 264 

bedding, protecting from 268 

borax for 308 

camphor for 308 

carpets, protection, from 307 

clothes, protection, against 306 

corrosive sublimate for 308 

destruction of 306-307 

feathers, in ^. 309 

fighting 306. 

furs, protecting from 118, 307 

mixtures for 308 

pepper for 308 

petroleum products tor 808 

preventives against 306 

repellents tor 305-306 

tobacco for 308 

to repel 308 

upholstered furniture, in 292 

wool rags, protecting against 43 

Mourning goods 175 

cleaning 176 

Mouse hole, yellow soap for 199 

holes, stopping 316 

Mouth pastilles, perfuming the breath. 611 

washes 509 

Mucilage 339-340 

botanical 340 

cold cream, in 470 

dextrin 340 

gum arable in 340 

ink, in marking 428 

ivory 340 

label 340 

preservation of 341 

sealing wax, for white 375 

Mud stains, colored goods, on 173 

gasoline, cleaning with 160 

kerosene for removing 167 

removal of 167-173 

Muflans, bran, invalids, for 668 

Mulled wine, invalids, for 671 

Murdock, William, illuminating gas, 

inventor of 95 

Muriate of ammonia, freckles, for ... 463 

of lime, chalk, for prepared' 436 

of tin 394 

Muriatic acid, application of 158 

brass, for cleaning 299 

fur, removal of 138 

furniture, for cleaning 382 

greasy, for cleaning 381 

gold, coloring brass 401 

plating, in 406 

ink, copying, removal of 166 

furniture, removal from ■. 288 

for metal label 431 

restoring faded 432 

indelible, removing from linen .. 166 

removal of, from linen 168 

stains, removal of 432 

floors, removal from 277 

linen, removal from 167 

iron, for coppering 389 



716 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Muriatic acid. Iron rust, tor 164 

Ivory, for etching on 435 

nature and uses of 168 

poisoning from 649 

putty, for removing 279 

rust, for removing 299 

salt in 158 

soldering liquid, in making 393 

stains, removal of 166 

steel, for staining 387 

straw braid, bleaching 184 

sulphuric acid in '... 168 

tinning, for 393 

window glass, for restoring 286 

zinc, for bronzing 401 

Mushroom catsup 583 

Mushrooms, pickling 581 

poisoning from 660 

preserving 684 

Music 63 

cabinet 64 

room, pictures for 55 

sheet, binding 54 

care of 64 

Musical bells, bronze for 391 

education, cost of 53 

instruments, varnish for 374 

cleaner for 289 

varnish for 374 

Musk, essence, lavender water, for . . 481 

perfumes, for 476 

linen, for preserving 232 

moths, for repelling 307 

sachet, for 477 

soap 450 

Muslin, curtains, for 45, 214 

Muslin curtains 45 

dotted, bedspreads, for 63 

laundry bags, for 164 

soap, should not be rubbed with 208 

unbleached, bleaching 184 

Muslins, doing up 224 

washing 208 

care in 209 

Must, cask, removal from 262 

Mustache pomade 497 

raising a 497 

Mustard bath 446 

pickles 675 

plasters, making 663 

vomiting, for inducing 649 

Mutton bams, pickling 693 

tallow, hands, for the 453 

leather, for waterproofing 421 

soap, for 188 

making, for 189 

Myrrh, teeth, for the 506 

Myrtle flowers, toilet waters, for 480 

soap 461 

Nailbrush, finger, splinter under 648 

heads, cement for covering 349 

rusty, drawing a 336 

silver, polishing 143 

splinter under, yellow soap for 199 

Nails 335 

anatomy of the 438 

biting, preventing children from 455 

diseases of the 456 

drawing 336 

driving 336 

finger, disease of the 456 

ingrowing 456 

manicuring the 465-456 

toughening 456 

whitening the 466 

hammering, irons, never use for ... 227 

ingrowing 466 

kinds of 335 

manicuring the 455 

mixed 336 



PAGB 

Nails, polishing the ' 456 

rust, to preserve, from 298 

shoes, in 420 

sizes of 335 

toughening the 456 

under, white spots 457 

whitening the 456 

workroom, in the 336 

yellow soap for 199 

Nap, cloth, to raise on 245 

woolen goods, raising, on 174 

Naphtha, bedbugs, for exterminating. 313 

burning, putting out 91 

flexible varnish, in 368 

French polish, for 379 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

harness, for waterprooflng 425 

moths, for destroying 308 

nature of 160 

petroleum^ see. 

soap, feathers, for cleaning 179 

silk, for cleaning 172 

stove polish, in 129 

upholstered furniture, for cleaning. . 292 

wax stains, for 164 

Naphthaline, moths, for 305 

Napkins, ironing 229 

red or scarlet, fixing color of 211 

soiled 164 

tablecloths, old, from 233 

Narrow room, of, improving effect ... 48 

Nasturtiums 581 

Nautical measure 613 

Neapolitan creams 626 

Neat's-foot oil 377 

goatskins, for tanning 417 

harness, for 418-425 

hides, for tanning 416 

nature of 377 

purifying 377 

shoes, tor 419-421 

Neck, bleeding of 654 

Neckties, satin, cleaning 172 

silk, crazy quilts, pieces for 66 

Needle, crochet, stockings, to mend with 244 

darning, threading a 238 

machine, sharpening a 238 

wound 648 

Needles 238; 

box for 235« 

picking up 238 

receptacle for 235 

rust, prevention of 238 

threading 238 

Negatives, photographic, passepartout, 

for 56 

Neroli, oil of, sachet, for 477 

Nervousness, sleeplessness, cause of. . 151 

Net bedspreads 63 

lace curtains, tor mending 46 

Neuralgia, fomentation cloth for 660 

Neurasthenia, sleeplessness, cause of 161 

New tins, preparation of 138 

Newspaper, cellars, for 262 

china, for packing 300 

cracks, for filling 273 

damp, carpets, when sweeping 269 

dust, for preventing 251 

garbage, for 13a 

garbage can, inside of 146i 

grates, for keeping clean 130 

matting, before laying 272 

when cleaning 258 

shoes, for tight 4ig 

soft, furniture, for polishing 381 

stair carpets, preventing wear of 269 

velvet, for cleaning 17J 

windows, for polishing 283 

Newspapers, boots, for drying 421 

canvas shoes, when cleaning 420 

cleaning with 145 



INDEX 



717 



PAGB 

Newspapers, clothes, when packing .. 309 

moths, tor repelling 306 

oilcloth, under 40 

pantry shelves, tor 76 

quilts, tor 65 

shoes, tor drying 418 

wiping with 145 

uses ot 78 

stair carpets, padding tor 273 

stoves, tor polishing 129 

Nickel, cleaning 129, 294-299 

coin. United States 641 

fittings, rust, prevention of 298 

nature ot 396 

plating, solution tor 406 

steel 397 

nature of 397 

Night air 59 

lamps 104 

preparations for the 160 

Nightmare, nature of 151 

Nights, hot, sleeping on 153 

Nigrosine, ink, stylographic, in 165 

testing for 165 

Nipples, cleaning 674 

Nitrate of lime, water, for clarifying 116 

of mercury, metals, in gilding 409 

ot silver, ink, indelible, in 429 

ivory, for etching on 435 

in silvering 414 

metals, for silvering 413 

stains, ammonia for 158 

removal of 167 

of tin 395 

yellow, for dyeing 395 

Nitric acid, blue paint, in 363 

brass, bronzing, for 402 

tor cleaning 293, 390 

candles, lard, for 108 

feathers, tor bleaching 184 

gilding, glass, removal from 410 

glue, liquid, tor making 341 

waterproof, for 341 

Grecian gilding, tor 410 

ink tor metal label 431 

furniture, removal from 288 

iron, for coppering 389 

rust, marble, removal from 295 

metals, for testing 405 

poisoning from 649 

putty, for removing 279 

rosin dissolved by 366 

silver, tor purifying 413 

stains, linen, removal from 167 

steel, for staining 387 

test tor 568 

Nitrogen, atmosphere, in 68 

Nose, foreign bodies in 655 

Nosebleed, treatment of 654 

Nougats 538 

Nurseries, paper, mother goose, tor .. 37 

Nursing, home 660 

Nut candies 517, 532 

creams 526 

cups 535 

kisses 537 

loaf candy 535 

oils, paints, in 353 

Nutgall inks 165 

stains, removal of 105 

Nutgalls, ink, in 426 

for invisible 431 

leather, for black 417 

Nutmeg, linen, tor preserving 232 

oil ot, lavender water, tor 481 

Nuts, cracking, irons, never use, tor. 227 

storing 604, 610 

Nux vomica, poisoning from 651 

Oak bark, tannin in 416 

furniture, burlap walls, with 38 



PAOB 

Oatmeal, furs, for cleaning 309 

gruel. Invalids, tor 670 

hands, tor softening the 453 

Scotch, skin, for the 463 

soap 449 

Oats, boots, for drying 421, 

green, tor coloring bronze green .... 401 

Ooher, whitewash, for 279-280 

Odor, alcohol stove, none with 110 

onion, removal of 511 

paint, destruction ot 279 

Odors, cooking 131 

drains, in 113 

earthenware, from 13? 

removal of 135, 310 

Oil adhesives 346 

books, removal from 69 

doors, for creaking 286 

flsh, purifying 377 

putrid, deodorizing 377 

floor 42, 256, 273 

coloring 274 

gilding, wood, on 410 

hair, coloring 49S 

illuminating, testing 101 

kerosene IOC 

improvement of 105 

lamps, choosing , 101 

linseed, furniture, for 288 

hands, for 454 

paints, for 35! 

machine, needles, rusty, tor 23E 

neat's-f oot 37^ 

purifying iTi 

ot lavender, gold lacquer, for 401 

of tar, harness, for oiling 42E 

of vitriol, Masquere's acid soap, in.. 19! 
olive, castile soap, in 19! 

men's clothes, for 17E 

tar, removal ot 17S 

paint, kitchen walls, for 7< 

thinning 36( 

with water 36( 

paintings, cleaning 29( 

preservation of 29( 

varnish for 37! 

white, restoring in 291 

paints, varnish for 37! 

poison, antidote tor 64! 

sewing machine 23( 

size, knots, tor killing 36! 

-stained floors, care of 27! 

stains, alcohol, dissolved by 16^ 

colored goods, on 17! 

French chalk tor 17! 

marble, removal from 29! 

removal of 171 

stove, sewing room, for 231 

stoves, carbonic-acid gas from 81 

heating system, as 8! 

living rooms, in 8! 

sweet, laces, for 21! 

rust on irons, prevention ot 221 

tar, removal ot 171 

whetstone 371 

Oilcloth 41 

bag, clothespins, for 21! 

book, receipt, for 7' 

brightening 251 

bureau scarf, under 6' 

carpet beetles, avoiding 311 

cleaning 251 

floors, sweeping 251 

kitchen floor, for 7' 

table, for 75, 13! 

laying 40, 27! 

linings tor 41 

making 36! 

purchasing 41 

shelves, kitchen, for 71 

spots, removal from 25! 



718 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Oilcloth, substitute for 42 

table, cleaning 258 

varnishing 40 

washstand, for 67 

waxing 259 

white, pantry shelves, for 76 

Oiled papers, uses of 77 

sillc, mending, for 345 

Oiliness, ink, removal from 432 

Oils 376 

animal, fixed 276 

preservation of 377 

rancid, to restore 377 

drying, preparation of 376 

essential, mucilage, for preserving. . 341 

testing 475 

ether, dissolved by 164 

fixed 367 

hair, compounding 491 

perfumes for 492 

use of 491 

turpentine, spirits of, dissolved by, 

159, 164 

vegetable, fixed 376 

purifying 376 

soap, in 187 

volatile 474 

nature of 474 

wood furniture, for 288 

Oilstone, workroom, in the 335 

Oilstones, lierosene oil for 378 

straightening 378 

Ointment, skin, relaxed, for the 440 

wrinkles, for 440 

Oleic acid, cloth, waterproofing 93 

Olive color paint, mixing 364 

oil, Circassian cream, in 473 

fixed vegetable oil 376 

furniture, tor polishing 381 

gas range, for 131 

gun barrels, in bronzing 402 

hands, for the 453-154 

Jet, for cleaning 434 

kid boots, for 420 

lace, whitening 185 

laces, for 212 

men's clothes, for renovating 175 

mosquito bites, for curing 326 

oil paintings, for cleaning 290 

patent leather, for 424 

poison, antidote for 649-660 

purifying 378 

(see clocks) 

sealing wax, for soft 375 

soap, camphor, in 450 

steel knives, preventing rust on... 141 

varnished furniture, polishing 380 

wood filler, as 255 

Olives, preserving 584 

Onion diet 646 

juice, scorch, for removing 231 

Onions, cold, pickling 678 

files, preventive against 322 

gilt picture frames, tor 289 

odor of, to remove 511 

pickled 578 

pickles 577 

pickling, selection of 578 

storing 605 

Open grates 85 

Opium, poisoning from 650 

Opticians, cement f oi> 342 

Orange color paint, mixing 364 

drops 532 

flavoring 542 

flowers, toilet waters, for 480 

ice, invalids, for 669 

juice, poison, antidote for 650 

tan shoes, -for 421 

marmalade, candied 533 

oil of, lavender water, for 481 



PAOE 

Orange, oil of, perfumes, for 476 

pastils 631 

peel, toilet waters, for 480 

stick, eyelet embroidery, for 248 

finger nails, tor the 455 

straws 533 

Orchard pests 326 

Order, habits of 68 

Oregon wash, San Jas# scale, for 331 

spraying with 331 

Organ, care of 53 

Oriental rugs, care of 258 

cleaning 270 

preferable 34 

use of 41 

Ornaments, background for 37 

bedroom 268 

gilt, cleaning 290 

paper, large figured, on 37 

relief, bringing out in 37 

silver, cleaning 290 

varnish for 373 

Orris, linen, for preserving 232 

powder, almond paste, for 469 

root, sachet, for 477 

teeth, for the 506 

tincture, lavender water, for 481 

toilet powders. In 471 

violet water, for 480 

Outdoor bathing 444 

Outing fiannel, dish towels, for 136 

silverware, for 143 

Oven, care of the 131 

gas-range, care of , 131 

overheated 129 

Ovens, stoves, tor alcohol 110 

Overalls, brush for 203 

stove holders, for 130 

Overfeeding babies 673 

Overshoes, box for 421 

care of 421 

mending 345 

rubber, leather, destroy strength of 418 
Oxalic acid, alabaster, tor cleaning... 296 

application of 156 

bleaching with 157-184 

bluing, in making 222 

books, for cleaning 70 

for ink stains on 70 

for Iron stains on 70 

brass, for cleaning 293-299 

inlaid work, for cleaning 291 

color restored by 246 

copper ware, tor 137 

gloves, for ink stains on 179 

hands, stains, tor removal of, from 453 

Ink, for blue 430 

furniture, for removal of, from. 288 
stains, floors, for removal of, 

from 277 

for 173 

removal of 166 

iron rust, marble, removal of, from 294 

for removal of 164-167 

leather, ink, removal of, from 418 

lime, test for 115 

marble stains, tor removal of 295 

matting, stains, tor removal of, 

from 272 

petroleum stain on oak, for re- 
moving 257 

piano keys, for 289 

poisoning from 649 

shoes, for 419 

silk, tor bleaching 172 

silver seals, for cleaning 14S 

solution, dilute, of 156 

saturated, of 156 

stains, removal of 156 

stone work, for cleaning 293 

straw, for bleaching 181 



INDEX 



719 



PAGE 

Oxalic acid, tea and coffee Etains, for 163 

use of 156, 453 

wine stains, linen, removal of, 

from 169 

Oxgall, black lace, for washing 213 

for reviving faded 176 

silk, for cleaning 171 

carpets, for cleaning 270 

for freshening faded 271 

color, for fixing 210 

colored silks, in washing 215 

woolens, in waslilng 216 

colors, for brightening 175 

comforters, in washing 218 

freckles, for 463 

ink, oiliness, removal of, from 432 

stains, for removing 432 

men's woolen clothes, for cleaning. . 175 

patent leather, for 424 

soap, in 198 

sunburn lotion, in 465 

woolen goods, for 176 

shawls, for washing \... 217 

Oxide of copper, stone varnish, In 372 

of iron, red, iron, for welding 386 

safety matches, for 436 

sealing wax, for red 375 

zinc, for bronzing 401 

of lead, drying oils, for 376 

gilding size, for 411 

red, red sealing wax, for 374 

of tin 394 

of zinc, white paint, in 362 

Oxygen, atmosphere, In 58 

bleaching agent 181 

breathing, necessary in 58 

combustion, in 123 

life, essential to 104 

lungs, in our 104 

oil, In burning of 104 

paintings, white, restoration of 291 

Oyster broth for invalids 668 

catsup 585 

shells, cement, in 347 

clinkers, removal of 128 

kettles, preventing fur on 138 

white of egg, with 344 

OVsters, creamed, invalids, tor ..-. — 666 

broiled, invalids, for 666 

scalloped, invalids, for 667 

Packages, trade, weights of 627 

Packing 300 

canned fruit 548 

garments, to prepare, for 309 

miscellaneous objects 303 

removal, for , 300 

traveling, for 302 

Pad, table 73 

Pages, book, mending torn 71 

Pails, tin cans, from » 78 

lard, uses of 78 

mop 275 

wood floors, for 275 

Paint 164 

acid-proof 362 

application of 355 

bathtub, for 442 

benzine, dissolved by 164 

bronze, iron, for 402 

brush, stoves, for polishing 129 

brushes, cleaning 360 

burner, metals, preparation for paint- 
ing 357 

paint, for removing 278 

canvas, for 364 

care of J™ 

chloroform, dissolved by 164 

cleaning ^*^?ZI 

coarse f ;° 

painted sink 1*6 



PAGE 

Paint, cleaning white 277 

clothespins, for 219 

colored, to mix 362 

dryer for 353, 360 

enamel, linen closet shelves, tor ... 231 

fireproof 361 

fresh, keeping 360 

floors, for 42 

fur, on 180 

ingredients of 353 

kinds of 360 

lead, oil paintings, for 290 

linoleum, for 40 

linseed oil for 352 

mill 361 

naphtha soap, for 172 

odor of, to destroy 279 

oil, kitchen walls, for 74 

water, thinning with 360 

oilcloth, on 40 

pigments for 362 

quantity to use 353 

ready-made 353 

receptacle for 335 

removal of 278, 285 

rust-proof, iron, for 388 

steel, for 388 

shades of 364 

..silk, removal of, from 171 

stains, gasoline, cleaning, with 160 

removal of 165 

stove pipes, for 297 

sulphurous ether, dissolved by 164 

thinners for 353 

tints of 364 

turpentine, dissolved by 164 

removal of 159 

use of 353 

useful 353 

walls, for 36 

water-color 353 

windows, removal of, from 285 

workroom, in the 335 

zinc, with 361 

Painting, asphalt used in 367 

before 355 

brick, specifications for 357 

houses, rules for 354 

inside, old work 356-357 

woodwork 3, 359 

new work outside, specifications for 35fi 
old work inside, specifications for .. 357 

outside, specifications for 356 

outside 3551 

old work 356 

plaster 359 

rough walls 28S 

sashes 355 

specifications for 355 

stipple wail 359 

stucco specifications for 35T 

whitewashed wall 283 

window sills 355 

woodwork, preparation before 349 

zinc, white, with 358 

Paintings, mastic for 366 

oil, cleaning 290 

preservation of 290 

varnish for 372-37S 

whites In, restoration of 291 

Paints, care of 380 

dryers for 353 

kinds of 353 

Unseed oil for 352 

ready-made 353 

Palladium, gold alloyed with 408 

Palm of hand, bleeding of 654 

oil, axle grease, in 378 

honey soap, in 449 

oil, fixed vegetable 376 

tinning, for 393 



720 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Palm oil, toilet preparations, for 461 

Panama hats, cleaning 181 

Panic, keeping cool 647 

Fans, frying, newspapers, wiping, witli 145 

Pantry, conveniences for 73 

linoleum for 40 

shelves 76 

tableware for 133 

Paper bags, lamp chimneys, for polish- 
ing 148 

stoves, polishing, for 128 

uses of 77 

bronzing 403 

building, floors, on 42 

pantry shelves, for 76 

varnish paint on 42 

dark-colored, for linen 232 

gilding 412 

glue for 342 

■ flexible, for 341 

hanger's paste 281,339 

hanging 281 

size for 281 

imitation leather, dining room, for.. 37 

halls, for 37 

kindling, as 125 

measure 635 

paint for 362 

parchment glue for 350 

pillows, for fancy 49 

rough wall, for a 282 

silvering ^ 414 

stock sizes of 635 

tarred roofing, carpet beetles, avoid- 
ing 311 

tissue 77 

walls, for 36 

washable, kitchen walls, for 74 

pantry shelves, for 76 

waterproof, bathroom, in 67 

oilcloth, kitchen, for 37 

wrapping 77 

bedding, for storing 268 

curtains, for stretching 214 

Papering, cost of 615 

Papers, bedrooms, for 37 

figured 37 

oiled 77 

old, burning 128 

Papiermach€, cleaning 296 

Paraffin, frescoes, for 281 

irons, for 227 

metals, rust, for protecting, from . . 298 

moths, repellent for 306 

oil, furniture, for cleaning 287 

(petroleum, see) 
putty, windows, removal of, from .. 285 

stains, for removing 208 

varnish, in 372 

wax, floors, for 256 

wooden bedsteads, for 266 

zinc, for cleaning 299 

Paragrene, spraying with 330 

Parchment, gilding size, for 411 

glue 350 

gold, designing in 412 

portable glue, in 342 

varnish 374 

Paregoric, poisoning from 650 

Paris green, green paint, in 363 

poisoning from 651 

potato bugs, for 330 

principle, active 329 

spraying with 329 

Parisian nougats 538 

Parlor furniture, linen walls, with ... 38 
(living rooms, see) 

Parsley, drying 608 

Parsnips, keeping 605 

Passepartout 66 

fission flower, veranda, for 80 



PAGE 

Paste, almond 468 

complexion, for the 465 

blacking, nature of 423 

complexion 468 

compounding of 461 

dentists' nerve 614 

drops, raspberry 632 

flour 338 

making 338 

preservation of 339 

gum-arabic 339 

mahogany furniture, for 382 

metals, for 293 

paperhanger's 281, 339 

making 339 

rice 339 

rouge 472 

Pasteboards, shoes, for nails in 420 

Pastes 338 

compounding of 461 

denatured alcohol used in 110 

tooth 509 

Pasteurizing milk 672 

Pastille incense 476 

Pastilles 478, 517, 531 

compounding 476 

mouth and breath, for perfuming the 511 

Pastries, diet of 646 

Patent leather, care of 424 

Pattern, absence of 37 

linen, for 232 

making over 246 

Patterns, carpet, matching 44 

delicate, carpets, in 43 

dress 237 

holder for 237 

large, carpets, in 43 

small, carpets, in 43 

stamping homemade 247 

wall-paper 37 

Pea coal, banking fires, for 82 

economy, for 127 

special grate for 82 

Peach mangoes 582 

•preserves 55( 

tree gum 35( 

Peaches, Paris green for 

pickled 58( 

ripe, preserving 55( 

Peanut nougat 533 

Pearl, candy making, in 51i 

color, mixing 36< 

powder, use of 39i 

white, nature of 39( 

Peariash, almond creams, in 461 

flres, for putting out 91 

furniture, in paste for 3gi 

green paint, in 361 

plaster of Paris in, for hardening . . 43( 

silvering, for 41; 

waxe4 fioors, for polishing 251 

Pearline washing powder 20' 

Pears, ginger, preserving, in 55j 

molasses, preserved in 55j 

pickled 681 

Peas, dry, storing jo' 

green, preserving 601 

storing 60' 

shelled, storing 60' 

Peat (or turf), fuel, as 8] 

Pebbles, filters, for 11; 

Peel, candied 53; 

Pencil erasers, cleaning 7: 

marks, laundry, removal of, from .. 151 

sharpener 71 

Pendulum 641 

Pennsylvania fireplace, Franklin sto're! 

or 81 

Pennyroyal, mold, for prevention of . . 6! 

mosquitoes, for repelling 321 

Pens, new .,....,..,..,.,,, 7: 



INDEX 



721 



rjLGE 

Pepper, black, black colors, fixing 211 

catsup 585 

cayenne, garbage cans, for 146 

fly paper, for 323 

moths, for 308 

shelf for 76 

Peppermint, carpets, moths, for pro- 
tecting from 307 

creams 525 

lozenges 540 

mouse holes, for 316 

pastilles 631 

tincture of, medicine case, in 648 

Peppers, pickled 681 

Spanish 576 

Pepsin, blood stains, for removal of .. 169 

Percale, pillows, for covering 50 

Perfume, geranium 479 

rose 477 

sealing wax 376 

Perfumed soaps 448 

toilet water 480 

Perfumes 460-474 

hair oils, for 492 

individual 475 

nature of 474 

odor of 475 

toilet preparations, tor 460 

Periodicals 265 

disposition of 265 

educators, as 41 

Permanent teeth 504 

care of 504 

Peroxide of hydrogen 510 

linen, for blood stains on 169 

nails, for the 456 

tan, for 465 

of manganese, safety matches, for.. 436 

Persian insect powder 69 

Perspiration, odor of, yellow soap re- 
moves 199 

Peruvian bark, teeth, for the 606 

Pests, farm 326 

Petroleum, crude, insects, for destroy- 
ing 330 

distillation of 160 

fuel, as 81 

oil, crude, oilcloth, for 258 

products of 101 

fleas, for destroying 314 

moths, for 308 

Pewter 395 

nature of 396-398 

solder for 394 

Phosphoric acid, ivory, for softening.. 434 

Phosphorus, combustion, in 123 

ink, for luminous 431 

light, for vest-pocket 106 

matches, in making 123 

paints 353 

paste, vermin, for 310 

poisoning from 650 

rats, for 315 

for repelling 317 

safety matches, for 436 

turpentine, dissolved by 159 

Photograph glue 341 

Photographs, ethereal amber varnish 

for 372 

family 54-55 

Photography, silver nitrate used in... 412 

Piano, care of 53,289 

front room, for 52 

keys, cleaning 289 

mucilage for 340 

player, invention of 53 

wires, preventing rust on 299 

Pianos, cleaning 289 

Piazza, mosquitoes, screens, for 325 

Piccalilli 576 

Pickle cask, sweetening a 26^ 



PAGE 

Pickle, spiced 573 

Pickles 570 

copper, testing, for 390 

green, making 574 

mixed 576 

mustard 576 

storeroom for 79 

storing 571 

vinegar, testing, tor 572 

Pickling 570 

meat, preparation of, tor 591 

utensils for 572 

Pick-me-up, invalids, for 671 

Picture frames, cleaning 289 

colored copal varnish for 371 

gilding 411 

gilt, protection of 289 

hooks, use of 56 

molding, ceiling, close to 37 

dado, for 38 

effect of 66 

lowering 37 

object of 56 

pantry shelves, for 76 

wire, use of 66 

ironing board, for 227 

Pictures 72 

backgrounds for 37-38 

good and bad taste in 54 

hanging 5& 

mats for 67 

packing 301 

papers, large figured, on 37 

plaster, transferring to 67 

relief, bringing out, in 37 

selection of 56-72 

transferring 57 

water-color paint for 353 

Pieces, large, hanging out 220 

mending 241 

sorting 66 

special, washing 209 

Pig iron, nature of 385 

Pigment, stains, for 274 

Pigments, oil, vehicle for 369 

for paints 352 

Pillow case, curtains, for 214 

cases, laundry bags, as 154 

making 64 

storing 231 

ticks 60 

Pillows, couch 52 

covers for 50 

curled hair for 62 

fancy, filling tor 49 

feather 63 

cleaning 267 

filling 64 

feathers for 63 

making 50 

sick room, for 663 

sofa, covering 60 

making 60 

Pimples 440 

nature of 440 

Pine bark, tannin, in 416 

cones, kindling, as 126 

pillows, for fancy 49 

Pineapple bonbons 527 

Pineapples, preserving 569 

Pine-tree tar cough candy 640 

Pink, candy, coloring 642 

Pinks, fixing 211 

Pins 239 

care of 239 

Pipe, iron, cement tor mending 348 

Pipe-clay, alabaster, stains, for re- 
moval of, from 436 

awnings, fireproofing 93 

books, for 69 

canvas shoes, for cleaning 420 



722 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Pipe-clay cleansing mixture 161 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

for ink stains on 179 

grease, wall paper, for removal of, 

from 283 

leather, grease, for removal of, from 418 

linens, for white 208 

marble, for cleaning 294 

mildew, for 159 

linen, for removal of, from 168 

oil stains, for 173 

scouring mixture, in 162 

skirt, for dry-cleaning 167 

worsteds, light colored, for cleaning 177 

Pipes, asbestos for 113 

copper, cement for mending 350 

frost, prevention of, in 263 

frozen water 114 

bursting of 118 

lead for 391 

protection of 264 

painting, specifications for 358 

thawing 263 

waste water, removal of, from 112 

water 113 

cement for 347 

Pistachio, milk of, almond paste, for. . 469 

Pitch, fish, in gilding 411 

leather, for waterproofing 422 

rubber cement, for 345 

steel, for toughening 3S8 

white, lime paint, for 361 

Plank, footstools, for 49 

Plant lice, kerosene emulsion for 328 

Plants, dry, varnish for 373 

Plaster, adhesive 647 

medicine case, in 649 

casts, bronze for 402 

electrotyping, for 404 

cement for 347 

of Paris, alabaster, imitating 436 

casting 435 

cements 347 

cockroaches, for exterminating 311 

cracks, for filling 273 

plaster, for repairing, in 281 

electrotyping, in 404 

gilding size, for 411 

gum-arabic cement, in 340 

hardening 436 

knife handles, for fastening 141 

lamps, for mending 149 

molds for 435 

nature of 435 

pictures, transferring, to 57 

sealing wax, for 375 

setting, prevention from 435 

steel joints, for soldering 386 

use of 435 

varnish, foundation for 380 

white of egg cement, in 344 

wood filler, as 255 

medicine closet, in 662 

painting, inside 359 

with zinc 359 

pictures, transferring 57 

poison, antidote for 649 

repairing 281 

rosin, use of, in 366 

Plastering, cost of 615 

Plate rack, effect, for improving 48 

rail, dining room, for 73 

scraper, sheet rubber, of 133 

Plated metals, testing 405 

Plates, door, cleaning 145 

Plating, brass 405 

German silver 405 

solutions for : 405 

gold, solution for 404 

nickel, solution for 406 

Silver, solution lor 404 



PAGB 

Platinum, gold alloyed with 408 

nature of 399 

solder 394 

soldering 399 

Plots, acre, dimensions of 617 

Plumbers, cement for 344 

Plumbing, exposed 134 

Plume, candy-making 519 

Plush, faded, reviving 172 

Pocket, shoe, overshoes, for 421 

Pockets, silverware 142-143 

Point lace, laundry, preparation of, 

for the 212 

Poison, antidotes for 649 

bedbug 313 

cautions in using 156 

ivy, poisoning from 655 

labels for 155 

rat 315 

Poisoning, fainting from 651 

Poisonous, fly-paper, to make 322 

Polish, application of 129 

French 378 

furniture 378 

preparation of 381 

leather, for 425 

waxed floor 256 

Polishing, furniture 380 

iron 228 

Pomade, mustache 497 

Pongee, washing 215 

Popcorn balls, making 539 

cakes 639 

candy 539 

Poppy oil, French polish, for finishing 380 

leather, in waterproofing 423 

paints, in 353 

Porch, mosquitoes, screen, for 325 

sleeping 61, 645 

Porches, sleeping, sanitariums, in 59 

Pores, skin, in the 441 

Pork hams, curing 594 

smoking 595 

scraps, soap making, for 189 

Portable glue 341-342 

Portidres ^. 48 

(draperies, see) 

Posset, invalids, for 670 

Possibilities, denatured alcohol, of 111 

Postage stamps, dextrin for 337 

mucilage for 340i 

Potash, aluminum corroded by 397 

bichromate of, safety matches, for.. 436 

harness, for blacking 425 

blackheads, for 439 

carbonate, cold cream, for 470 

caustic, rat holes, for stopping 316. 

soap, for 188 

in ise 

cautions in use of 205 

chemical soap, in 16^ 

chromate of, ink, in copying 428 

crude, washing fiuid, in 206 

ferrocyanide of, faded manuscripts, 

restoration of, by 70 

hard water, for softening 204 

iron kettles, for 137 

ivory knife handles, for bleaching.. 14? 

laundry, in the 20^ 

lime paint, for 3611 

lye, ashes, making, from 188 

caustic, washing fluid 205 

gas range, for cleaning 13^ 

glass, for polishing 296 

mold, removal, from linen 168 

oven racks, for 13^ 

plaster of Paris, for hardening!!!! 43( 

splinters, for removing 45( 

tallow, for clarifying lo; 

making X8i 

oven doors, cleaning 13] 



INDEX 



723 



PAGE 

Potash, poisoning from 650 

permanganate of, grease, purifying. 189 

prussiate of, blue paint, in 363 

Bordeaux mixture, lor testing .;.. 328 

putty, for removing 279 

soaps, liard 193 

soft soap, for 189 

wood, flreprooflng 93 

Potassium, carbonate of, inlc, for red. .430 

cbromate, inlc, in logwood 427 

cyanide of, books, for ink stains on 70 

marking ink, removal of, from linen 168 

ink, nitrate of silver, removal of ... 166 

sulphide, insects, tor destroying 329 

spraying, for 329 

Potato bug, arsenite of lead for 331 

Paris green for 330 

juice, silk, cleaning with 170 

oil paintings, for cleaning 290 

raw, bric-a-brac, for cleaning 292 

steel knives and forks, for 141 

velvet, cleaning 170 

sink, for cleaning 146 

starch, calico, for 210 

Potatoes, bottles, cleaning 140 

grease, leather, removal from 418 

raw, colored goods, cleaning 211 

scab in \ 329 

silver, discolored, for cleaning 143 

sprouting, keeping from 606 

storing 60S 

Potpourri 479 

nature of 479 

Pot scraper, dishwashing, for 134 

Pots, coffee, cleaning 138 

odor, prevention of 139 

greasy, washing fluid for 205 

iron, cement for 348 

newspapers, wiping with 145 

tea, odor, removal from 139 

Potted beef 599 

Poultice bags, making 663 

Poultices, making 660 

medicine closet, in 662 

Poultry houses, rats in 317 

Powder, bleaching, uses of 159 

bronze 402 

burnishing 294 

metals, for 294 

curry 586 

gold, making 409 

hands, for the 455 

rouge 472 

Powders, compounding of 461 

hair 496 

compounding 496 

sachet 476 

toilet 471 

bases of 469 

tooth 507 

compounding 507 

washing 207 

Power, motor, alcohol as Ill 

Pralines 517 

Prepared chalk, making 436 

Preserves, canned, shelves for 263 

storeroom for 79 

' storing 548 

Preserving 547 

day 552 

fruit, rules for 558 

materials for 551 

methods of ..., 552 

process of 551 

Press, men's clothes 175 

Pressed beef 600 

Priming 354 

coat 365 

Prince Rupert's metal, brass, kind of 390 
Print goods, soap, should not be 

rubbed with 208 



PAGE 

Printer's ink 432 

dryers for 432 

removal of 167 

Printers, soap for 195 

Printing, bronze, with 403 

ink 432 

Prints, cleaning 70 

varnish for 373 

washing, careful 209 

Products, petroleum 101 

Proof spirits, see alcohol. 

Proportions, table of, cooks' 634 

Protectors, sleeve 136 

Prune jelly, invalids, for 669 

Prussian blue, harness, for 425 

ink, for blue 430 

for printing 432 

patent leather, for 424 

waterproofing and blacking 94 

Prussic acid, almond preparations, in 466 

poisoning from 650 

Psyche's kisses 537 

PufC iron, tucks, for 226 

Puffs, factory-made 65 

Pulled taffy 528 

Pulleys, lubricating 378 

Pumice powder, paint, for removing.. 360 

powdered, sand soap, in 19S 

stone, alabaster, for cleaning 436i 

polishing 299 

blackboards, in paint, for 361 

bookbindings, for 71 

burners, for polishing 149 

flatting with 365 

hardwood floors, for 255 

ironing board, for 226 

ivory knife handles, bleaching 14? 

for polishing 4341 

machine needles, for sharpening. . 238 

molding, in regilding 412 

mother-of-pearl, for polishing 296 

oilstones, for straightening 378 

old gilt frames, renovating 291 

rust, for removing 299 

scouring soap, for 198 

with 141 

stains, nails, removal from 456 

stucco work, for polishing 295 

varnished furniture, polishing .... 3801 

Pumicing floors 42 

Pumpkins, drying 608 

keeping 605' 

Pumps, freezing, prevention of ...113, 263, 

felt, keeping on 420 

water supply for 112 

Purple, beef gall for brightening 208 

color, paint, mixing 364 

leather, dyeing 417 

varnish, making 371 

Putrefaction 565 

Putrid fish oil, deodorizing 37T 

Putty, composition of 358 

cracks, for flliing 273 

powder, alabaster, for polishing .... 298 

furniture, before polishing 380 

mother-of-peart, for polishing .... 296 

nails, stains, removal from 456 

removal of 279 

tin pans, for mending 394 

windows, removal from 285 

Quartz, wood filler, as 289 

Queen's metal, nature of 395 

Quicklime, Bordeaux mixture, in 327 

casein cement, in 344 

closets, in damp 76 

coppersmith's cement, in 350 

hard water, for softening 204 

marble steps, for cleaning 295 

paint, for removing 278 

steel knives and forks, for 141 



724 



Index 



PAGE 

Quicklime, washing fluids. In 205-207 

Quills, preparation for writing 180 

writing, for 180 

Quilting frame, curtains, tor stretch- 
ing 214 

frames, homemade 66 

without 65-66 

knot, tying 66 

Quilts 64 

cheap 65 

crazy, making 65 

eiderdown 267 

hanging out 220 

lining 65 

prbtectlon of 66 

tying 66 

Quince seeds, cold cream, for 470 

hands, for the 454 

preparation of 459 

Rabbit skins, glue, for making 350 

Rack, dining room, for 73 

kitchen, utensils for 75 

tin 76 

Radiator, drum, stovepipe on the 86 

Radiators, gas jets, on 86 

lamps, on 86 

painting, specification for 358 

Radishes, diet, in 646 

Rag carpet 43 

cleaning 271 

making 43 

mending 269 

warp, coloring 43 

rugs, making 44 

use of 44 

Railings, iron, painting, specifications 

for 358 

Rain barrels, screens for 325 

comforters, for 218 

-water barrel 204 

drinking, for 114 

laundry, for 116, 203 

Raincoats, mending tissue for 345 

Raisin candy 533 

Raisins, hands, chapped, for 456 

Rancid animal oils, restoration of 377 

Range, asbestos, protection of 130 

coal for 127 

flre, banking 127 

lighting on one side 128 

saving of coal 127 

shaking and cleaning 127 

gas, care of 131 

cleaning 130 

kitchen, care of 128 

shelves 76 

two-oven, gas consumed by 96 

Rape-seed oil, Castile, in 198 

Raspberry pastilles 632 

vinegar 669 

Rat holes, filling 318 

stopping 316 

Ratafias 517, 635 

Ratite, directions for use of 319 

rats, for 318 

Rat-proof construction 318 

Rats, broom, protecting from 252 

destruction of 315 

dogs for 317 

ferrets for 317 

fumigation for 318 

matches, keeping from 130 

poisoning 315 

poultry houses, in 317 

ratite for 318 

trapping 316 

Rattan furniture, cleaning 289 

Raw linen, bleaching 182 

Razor, ripping, for 249 

strop 498 



PAGE] 

Razor strops, preparations for 498 

Razors, safety 497 

stropping 498 

Reading aloud 72 

Ready-made paints 353 

Receipt hook, homemade 77 

oilcloth for 77 

Recipes, soft soap, for 190 

spraying 327 

toilet 458 

Red, best, sealing wax, making 374 

bottle wax 560 

bronze 402 

candy, coloring 541 

den, for 36 

fixing 211 

hair dye 494 

hands 452. 

ink 429 

leather, alum for 417 

man's room, for a 36 

paint 363 

pickling liquid, meat, for 593 

rust stains, muriatic acid for 158 

Sanders, rouge, for 472 

sanderswood, French polish, for col- 
oring 379 

sealing wax, making best 374 

spiders, kerosene emulsion for 328 

stains, colored goods, from 167 

varnish, making 371 

warm shades of, rooms, for northeast 36 

wine stains 167 

ammonia for 158. 

sulphur, removal of 167 

Redness, hands, of the 452! 

Reds, fixing 211 

Refrigeration 81, 118 

Refrigerator, care of the 122 

cleaning 122 

disinfecting 122 

drainage of 119 

Refurnishing 3S 

RegUding 412 

Register, dust and gases from 84 

screen for 251 

Registers, dusted 84- 

sweeping, closed while 84 

ventilating grate 86 

wall, set in g^ 

Regulating hot air 84 

Regulus of antimony 39g 

Remedial agents 459 

Remedies, household 325 

toothache sig 

Remnants, box for 235 

Renovate tape measure 240 

woolen goods 174 

Renovating 244. 

black dye for 174 

Resin, benzine, dissolved by 164 

cement 343 

chloroform, dissolved by 159, 164 

kindling, as 127 

paste, library, in 3391 

sandarac varnish, in 371 

soap, tor increasing 194 

sulphurous ether, dissolved by 164 

turpentine, dissolved by 159,164 

Resins 333, 365 

nature of 365 

stains, solutions for 15a 

Respiration, artificial 66S 

Rhodium, oil of, sachet, lor 477 

test tor t 475 

Rhubarb, drying 608 

root, curing gog 

wood, sachet, tor 477 

Ribbons, cleaning isg 

doing up ;;;;' 229 

■ flatiron for 22(i 



INDEX 



725 



PAOB 

Ribbons, ironing 228 

lace for 198 

soap jelly for 198 

washing 211 

Ribs, fracture of 668 

Rice, dress goods, washing, with .... 217 

flour 338 

dextrin, in 337 

whitewash, in 280 

laces, in starching 230 

milk. Invalids, for 671 

paste 339 

making 339 

spice mill, cleaning 137 

water, starch, instead ot 225 

whitewash, in 279-280 

woolens, for washing 217 

Rings, blotting-pad 660 

curtain 48 

old rubber, use for 660 

Rinsing 203 

clothes 203 

laundry 202 

tablecloths 208 

water, starch in 208 

Ripping 248 

River water, drinking, for 114 

Rivets, cement for mending 360 

Roaches, trapping 312 

Road dust, stonework, imitation ot . . 362 

Rochelle salts, acid principle of 167 

Rock candy 531 

almond preparations, tor 466 

freckles, for , 463 

label mucilage, tor 340 

oil (see petroleum) 

salt, freckles, for 463 

lamps, preventing smoking 149 

Rodent bites, poisoning from 665 

Rods, sash curtains, for 46 

Roller towels 136 

Rolling table 76 

Rolls, fruit 634 

Roofing, asphalt used in 367 

lead for 391 

Roofs, cement for mending 347 

tin, rust of, preventing 298 

Room, cooling quickly 147 

dining 73 

effect of, improving 48 

front 52 

sewing 234 

Rooms, carpeting, cost ot 615 

clean, hoiy to 265 

dark colors decrease size of 37 

darkened, bacteria in 263 

darkening 147 

flowers and foliage for 37 

heightening, ceiling, borders on edge 

of 38 

landscape, for broadening .< 37 

large figures decrease size of 37 

living 51 

size of, decreasing 43 

sleeping 58 

solid colors for enlarging 37 

treatment of 36 

vertical stripes heighten 37 

Root, rhubarb, curing 1 608 

Roots, gathering 609 

Rope, clothesline of 219 

Rose, a. la, soap 450 

attar ot 477 

preparation of 477 

rose petals, from 477 

geranium, oil, lavender water, for . . 481 

Jar 478 

leaves, pillows, for fancy 49 

red, rouge, for 473 

sachet, for 477 

toilet powder, for ..,,.... 472 



PAGB 

Rose leaves, toilet waters, for 480 

oil of, sachet, tor 477 

pastils 632 

perfume 477 

petals, attar of roses from 477 

pink, mahogany furniture, for color- 
ing 378 

rooms, for west 36 

water 480 

cold cream, for 470 

lavender water, for 481 

sunburn lotions, for 465 

Rosemary, linen, for preserving 232 

oil, perfumes, for 476 

toilet water, for 481 

toilet water, for 480 

Roses, oil ot, extracting 478 

lavender water, for 481 

perfumes, for 476 

Rosewood, linen, for preserving 232 

Rosin 366 

barrel paint, for 362 

cement 343-344 

electrotyping. In 404 

fiy paper, for 323 

furniture, for polishing 381 

gilt frames, for mending 291 

harness, tor 425 

ink, for printing 432 

in 426 

leather, tor waterproofing 422 

paper-hanger's paste, in 339 

piaster-of-Paris cement, in 347 

mold tor 435 

resin cement, in 343 

saponifying 197 

sealing wax, for red 375 

in 374 

soap 196 

making 197 

soda, from 197 

soft, cold process 197 

soft soap, for 191 

solder, in 394 

varnish, in 372 

nature of 366 

wax, in grafting 344 

Rotten stone, scouring with 141 

wood, preparing, for polishing 379 

Rouge, liquid 472 

paste 472 

powder 472 

Routine, day's 123 

Rubber boots, drying 421 

cement 345 

rubbers, for mending 421 

chloroform, dissolved by 159 

dress shield, gasoline, spoiled by ... 160 

shields, garments, removal from .. 175 

eraser, pencil marks, tor 165 

hose, furs, for beating 307 

men's garments, for 173 

India, mixtures for 422 

rings, old, use for 560 

shellac cement for 343 

sliver, discolors 144 

tarnishes 433 

stamp ink 431 

turpentine, dissolved by 159 

Rubbers, mending 421 

Rubbing clothes 202-203 

Ruflles, fluting iron for 226 

Rugs, background for, filling as 42 

care of 257 

carpet, denim 42 

cleaning 2'70 

colors, briehtening 258 

denim 42 

domestic, recommended 42 

drawn, making 44 

dusting 251 



726 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Rugs, filling, from 42 

floor coverings, earliest 41 

goatskin, washing 270 

laying 257 

linoleum, with 40 

matting, use o£ 44 

moths, for avoiding 306 

Oriental 42 

care of 258 

cleaning 270 

recommended 42 

patching 273 

preferable 34 

rag. making 44 

use of 44 

sheepskin, cleaning 273 

Smyrna, repairing 273 

stocking legs for 44 

storing in summer 268 

use of 41 

Rule, six-inch 240 

Rum and milk, invalids, for 671 

aromatic vinegar, in 471 

bay 500 

Rushlights 109 

Russian bath 445 

Rust, grates, preventing, on 297 

iron 164 

citric acid, for 157 

linen, on 168 

marble, removal from 294 

protection from 388 

removal of 167 

irons, prevention of 226 

ironware, removal from 137 

linen, removal from 168 

metals, preservation from 298 

nails, to preserve from 298 

piano wires, prevention of 299 

prevention of 297-298 

-proof paint, iron, tor 388 

steel, for 388 

removal of 141, 299 

small articles, removal from 299 

stains 173 

colored goods, on 173 

steel knives, prevention of 141 

protection from 388 

stovepipes, protect from 297 

stoves, prevention of 297 

tinware, prevention of 138, 298 

tools, protected from 334 

varnish, prevention of 372 

Rusting, needles, prevent from 238 

nickel fittings, keep from 298 

Rusty meat 692 

Sachet powder, bedding, tor storing .. 268 

powders 476 

Sacks, fiour 47 

Safety matches, making 436 

razors 497 

Saffron, gold lacquer, for 407 

kid gloves, for '. ... 178 

laces, for tinting 230 

Sage, oil of, lavender water, for 481 

Sal ammoniac, brass, in bronzing 401 

for cleaning 300 

tarnishing, preventing 293 

burnt steel, for restoring 388 

castings, for soldering 386 

copper, in tinning 399 

electrotypes, for 389 

fires, for putting out 91 

freckles, for 462 

fur, removal of 138' 

Grecian gilding, for 410 

Ink, for metal label 431 

iron, for casehardening 385 

shellac varnish, in 369 

soldering liquid, in making 393 



PAGE 

Sal ammoniac, steel, for tempering ... 387 

washing fluid, in 206 

soda, bleaching with 183 

burners, for 102,149 

drainpipes, tor draining 263 

drip trays, washing 131 

earthenware, cleaning 138 

enameled ware, for 137 

floors, for scouring 276 

frying pan, tor 137 

fur skins, tor tanning 416 

gas range, cleaning 131 

globes, tor cleaning 149 

hard soap with 195 

hard-wood floors, tor refinishing.. 255 

laundry, in the 204 

linoleum, renewing 41 

machine grease, removal of 167 

oven doors, cleaning 131 

racks, for 131 

paint, oil, thinning 360 

petroleum stain on oak, removing 257 

refrigerators, for 122 

rust, for removing 299 

sliver, discolored, for 143 

sink spout, cleaning 145 

sinks, for cleaning 75 

soap, for increasing 194 

soda lye, making from 188 

soot, for removing 148 

steel, tor tempering 387 

stoves, tor cleaning 296 

tins, for new 138 

tinware, for 138 

washing fluid, in 205-207 

fluids with 206 

powders, in 207 

wax, removal of 257 

volatile, carbonate of ammonia 158 

smelling salts 158 

Salads, diet, in 646 

Salberg wash, vermin destroyer 310 

Salsify, preserving 605 

Salt bags, dishcloths, as 136 

calicoes, tor 210 

cambrics, for 208 

candles, sputtering, preventing 10ft 

carpets, freshening faded 271 

when sweeping 269 

china, for cleaning 145 

clinkers, removal of 12& 

coffeepots, for 139 

color, for flxing 210 

colored goods, on 157 

silks, in washing 215 

woolens, in washing 216 

colors, brightening 175 

for setting 208 

comforters, for flxing colors of 218 

common, green, for coloring bronze 401 

properties of 187 

copper ware, for 137, 139 

dark colors, for fixing 210 

dry, carpets, for 255 

silver, discolored, for cleaning ... 143 

fat, for graining 189 

fireproof paint, for 361 

fires, for putting out 88, 91 

quickening 126 

flannel, for bleaching 184 

freezing, prevention of 220 

gilding, for coloring 410 

glassware, cleaning fine 140 

handkerchiefs, for 208 

hard soap, in 192 

hearth, for making a 296 

ink, for invisible 431 

stains, removal ot 166 

iron rust, removal of 164, 167 

kerosene oil, improvement of 105 

lawns, for 208 



INDEX 



727 



FAQB) 

Salt, marble, tor cleaning 294 

matting, for 258 

cleaning 272 

metals, in gilding 409 

mildew, removal of 157, 164 

from linen 168 

mosquito bites, for curing 326 

mud stains, for 173 

muriatic acid, in 158 

oilcloth, brigbtenlng 259 

pipes, for thawing 263 

prints, for cleaning ■. 291 

rock, freckles, for 463 

rugs, brightening colors of 258 

for cleaning 267 

sachet, for 477 

shelves for 75-76 

silk, tor bleaching 157, 172 

silver, for purifying 413 

soap making, in 187 

soot, for removing 148 

spirits of, books, for ink stains on.. 70 

starch with 224 

steel, for tempering 387 

stone walks, for cleaning 295 

stove, burning on 128 

tea and coffee stains, for 164 

wash, San Jose scale, against 331 

-water bath 445 

hands, for moist 453 

soap 450 

whitewash, in 279-280 

wicker furniture, for cleaning 289 

woolen shawls, for washing 217 

zinc, tor cleaning 299 

Saltpeter, bonfires, for 106 

chemical soap, in 162 

cleansing mixture 161 

coarse paint, tor cleaning 278 

copper, for whitening 390 

fur skins, for tanning 416 

gilding, for coloring 410 

gold plating, in 405 

grease spots, removal of 167 

hides, tor tanning 416 

iron, for casehardening 385 

steel, for tempering 387 

tallow, tor clarifying 107 

washing fluid, in 206 

water, for clarifying 116 

wicks, for candle 107 

Salts, properties of 187 

smelling 479 

tainting, for 651 

of copper, bronze, for dark shades of 402 

of lemon 156 

application of 156 

cream of tartar in 158 

grass stains, for 163 

ink, books, removal from 70 

linen, removal from 168 

iron rust, for 164 

mold, removal from linen 168 

nature of 158 

salts of sorrel in 158 

tea and coffee stains, for 164 

turpentine, mixing with 159 

wine stains, removal of 169 

of sorrel 156 

of tartar, cloth, for silvering 414 

regilding, for 412 

washing fluids, in 207 

Sand, boots, tor drying 421 

dry, scouring soap, for 198 

Alters, tor 117 

flne, lime paint, tor 361 

tins, scouring 138 

grease, floors, removal from 277 

hands, tor softening the 453 

iron, for welding 386 

lanterns, in Chinese 105 



PAGE 

Sand, marble, tor polishing 295 

oilcloth, under 40 

plaster cracks, repairing 281 

of Paris, mold for 436 

rat holes, for 318 

rust, prevention of 141 

shoes, for drying 418 

soap 198, 450 

burners, tor polishing 149 

enameled ware, for 137 

scale, steel, removal from 387 

spirit varnish, for making 369 

steel, tor rust-proofing 388 

stone work, tor imitating 362 

tinning, when 393 

whitewash, in 280 

wood floors, for cleaning 275 

woolen cloth, for dry-cleaning 177 

Sandalwood soap 460 

test for 476 

toilet powder, for 472 

Sandarao 366 

lacquer, tor 407 

in 370 

varnish 371-373 

for hard shellac 370 

hardness, for imparting 369 

nature of 36S 

Sandpaper, fruit stains, removal of . . . 70 

furniture, tor smoothing 380 

Ironing board, on 226 

ivory, tor polishing 434 

kettles, for 137 

making 337 

matches, for 130 

pencil sharpener, for 72 

rough wall, tor 282 

rust, for removing 299 

stove, removing what adheres to . . . 128 
wood, preparation of, for polishing. . 379 

Sandwiches, egg, invalids, tor 667 

raw-beef 668 

San JosS scale, emulsion for 329 

lime sulphur salt for 327 

wash against 331 

spraying for 329 

Santal wood, sachet, for 47T 

Saplings, white oak, boilers, for 

cleaning 264 

Saponification, nature of 187 

Sash curtains 46 

windows, for broad 47 

Sashes, window, lubrication of 283 

painting 355 

rattling, prevention of 286 

supporting 28S 

Sassafras, fleas, on dogs, for 316 

flies, preventive against 322 

linen, for preserving 232 

Sateen, black, ironing 228 

Satin, cleaning 172 

farmer's, ironing 22S 

gilding 411 

washing 216 

Satins, gilding 411 

Saucepan, gas range, for 132 

Sauerkraut 606 

Sausage, cooked, preserving 699 

diet, in 646 

making 696 

meat, grinding 597 

improvement of 697 

mixed 593 

Sausages, intestine cases tor 596 

preparation of 697 

seasoning for 696 

Sawdust, boxwood, jewelry, for stor- 
ing 433 

glue size, with 378 

Ice box, -for 121 

houses, tor 120 



728 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Sawdust, kindling, as 127 

oilcloth, under 40 

shoe trees, for 419 

Saws, workroom, in the 336 

Scale, steel, removal from 387 

Scales, druggist's, toilet preparations, 

for 461 

Scalp, bleeding of 655 

Scarfs, bureau 67 

Scarlet cloth, cleaning 177 

fixing 211 

muriate of tin for 394 

napkins, fixing color of 211 

Scars 440 

removal of 440 

Scissors 239 

buttonhole 239 

cuticle 456 

cutting 239 

embroidery 239 

kinds of 239 

long-bladed 239 

picking up 238 

sharpening 239 

silencing noisy 239 

waists, for cutting 239 

wicks, trimming 148 

Scorch, preventing 231 

removal of 231 

Scouring mixtures 162 

soap 197 

Scrapbooks 71 

paste for 339 

Scrap bags, sewing room, for 237 

Scratches, furniture, removal of 288 

treatment of 655 

Screen, fire, draughts, prevention of. . 61 

light, sick room, in 664 

range fires, banking 127 

register, for 251 

smoke, preventing, with 88 

Screens '. 48 

burlap for 49 

grass cloth for 49 

leather for 49 

mending 322 

mosquito 325 

Screw hooks, ironing board, for 227 

Screws 336 

driving 336 

loosening 336 

Scrim, face cloth, for a 447 

curtains, for 45 

dishcloth, as 136 

glass, wiping 141 

Scrofula, iodine soap for 451 

Scrubbing floors, washing fluid for . . 205 

washing powders for 207 

Sea bath 444 

salt, bath, for the 445 

water stains, ammonia for 158 

stains, silk, on 172 

Sealing wax 374 

black 375 

blue 375 

cement, for 344 

cheap 374 

china, for 343 

coloring 374-375 

electrotyping. In 404 

gold 375 

green 376 

marble 375 

perfuming 376 

polishing 375 

red, best, to make 374 

shellac in 366 

soft 375 

varnish from 372 

white 375 

yellow 375 



PAGE 

Seasonings, shelf for 76 

Seed lac 366 

lacquer, for 407 

varnish, nature of 366 

measuring 620 

potatoes, scab, prevention of, on 329 

Set kettle, soap making, in 187 

Sewage, drains or furrows, distributed 

by 113 

gas, test for 59 

pipe, water supply for 112 

Sewing bags 237 

day 234 

machine, care of 235 

chain stitch 248 

crazy quilt, stitching 66 

hemstitching on 248 

kerosene, cleaning with 236 

linen, for marking 232 

oiling 236 

rag carpet, for mending 269 

stockings, darning on 244 

troubles 236 

use and care of 235 

room, the 234 

bureau in 235 

conveniences 236 

skylight in 234 

table, handy 236 

kitchen, for 134 

sewing room, in 236 

Shades 45-97 

gas, light, loss of, from 97 

paint, of 364 

rooms, for darkening 147 

sick room, for the 664 

window 47 

blowing of, preventing 47 

hanging 47 

renewing 47 

substitute for 47 

Shallot, vinegar 570 

Shampoo, hair, dry 487 

mixtures, application of 487 

Shampoos, compounding 487 

Shams, iron wire for 47 

Sharpener, pencil 72 

Shaving 497 

cream, compounding 499 

creams 499 

Lewis's toilet water for 499 

Shavings, boxwood, gilt ornaments, 

for storing 290 

Shawls, knitted, washing 127, 217 

woolen, washing 217 

Sheathing, ship, copper for 389 

Sheepskin rugs, cleaning 273 

stoves, for polishing 129 

Sheepskins, tanning 417 

Sheet, curtains, for stretching 214 

lead 392 

preparation of 392 

music, care of 54 

rubber, plate scraper of 133 

Sheeting, brown, bleaching 183 

cotton for 64 

linen for 64 

unbleached, for 64 

ticks, for pillow 50 

unbleached, bedroom curtains, for. . 46 

Sheets 64 

cotton, storing 231 

hanging out 220 

linen, bleached 63 

making 64 

old. Ironing boards, for 227 

renewal of 64 

sick room, for 663 

Shelf, kitchen, for 133 

Shellac 366 

alcohol, cutting with 381-382 



INDEX 



729 



PAGE 

Shellac, blackboards. In paint for 362 

blacking, for 424 

cement, china, tor 343 

elass, tor 343 

metal, tor labeling on 343 

rubber, tor 343 

coloring 370 

electrotyping. In 404 

French polish, tor 378 

tor finishing 380 

gold lacquer, tor 407 

ink, in marking 428 

lac varnish, in 368 

paint, dryer tor 360 

resin cement, in 343 

rubber cement, tor 345 

sandarac varnish, in 371 

sealing wax, tor red 375 

size, paper hanging, tor 281 

varnish 369-373 

knots, for killing 365-365 

making 369 

molding, in regllding 412 

nature of 366 

shoes, for waterproofing 422 

stained floors, for 275 

whitewashed wall, tor 283 

wood filler, as 255 

Shells, gilding 411 

oyster, tea kettle, in the 115 

silvering 414 

Shelves, closet with 234 

library 68 

pantry 76 

covering 76 

range 76 

sewing-room closet, in 234 

swinging, cellar, tor 263 

Shields, rubber dress, garments, re- 
moval from 175 

Shingling, cost of 614 

Ships, sheathing for 390 

nature of 395 

Shirt bosoms, ribbed iron for 226 

starching 225 

waists, dry-cleaning 167 

Shirts, ironing 228-229 

woolen, drying 221 

Shoe box, hooks and eyes, for 234 

boxes, tape, for 234 

whalebones, for 235 

cleaner 419 

pocket, overshoes, for 421 

polish, denatured alcohol, use of, tor 110 

strings 420 

care of 420 

Shoemakers, cement for 346 

Shoes, care of 418-419 

cleaner 419 

cleaning 419 

creaking, stopping 419 

damp, drying 418 

drying 418 

house, mending 420 

nails in 420 

oiling 421 

patches on 346 

preservation of 418 

tan, polishing 420 

tight 419 

Shopping list 235 

library desk, in the 69 

preparation of 231 

Shot, bottles, cleaning 140 

lead for 391 

Shoulder blade, fracture of 658 

Shovel, kitchen sink, for 134 

Show-card inks 430 

Shower bath, homemade 443 

Sick room, conveniences tor 662 

the 663 



FAQB 

Sick room, ventilation of 662 

Sieve, cleaning 138 

Silk, acid stains, removal from 172 

animal fiber 163 

black, cleaning 171 

black stocking, tor darning 244 

bleaching 157-184 

china, washing 215 

cleaning 170 

preparation for 169 

cleansing mixtures tor 171 

cutting 249 

delicacy of 163 

dresses, mending 242 

embroidery 248 

fine, soap, for 198 

gasoline, cleaning with 160-170 

grease, removing from 170 

moths teed on 304 

oiled, mending, tor 345 

oxalic acid, application of 156 

packing 309 

paint, removing from 171 

potato, cleaning, with 170 

quilts, pieces, for 65 

renovating 246 

sea-water stains, removal from 172 

shivering 413 

stockings, washing 215 

storing 310 

tar, removal of 171 

tartaric acid for 158 

trimmings, stiffening for 245 

violet, acid stains, removal from.,.. 172 

wall covering, as 38 

waste, uses for 242 

wax, removal of, from 171 

white, bleaching 172 

cleaning 172 

washing 215 

wrinkles, removal of, from 229 

yellowed, bleaching 16T 

Silkatine, darning, tor 244. 

Silkoline curtains for bedroom 46 

Silks 158 

colored, ironing 229 

stains, removal of, from 172 

starching 2231 

washing 215 

doing up 229 

gilding 411 

ironing 215, 228-229 

laundering 214 

sewing, box for 234 

soap jelly for 198 

storing 230 

Silver bronze 397 

pure 402; 

chain, cleaning 433 

cleaning 413 

cleansers 144 

cloth 413 

coin, English 642 

United States 641 

I compounds of 412i 

counterfeit, TJ. S. mint test tor 413 

discolored, cleaning 143 

dishcloths tor 136 

egg stains, removal from 144 

fish, books, in 69 

gilding on 410 

glass globes 414 

gold plating 405 

Imitation, nature of 396 

ink 430 

iron, electroplating on 406 

jewelry 412 

lace, cleaning 173 

leaf, bronze, for silver 402 

fineness of 412 

iron, tor plating 406 



730 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Silver leaf, knots, for killing 365 

shells, for silvering 414 

nature of 412 

nitrate of, ink. Indelible, in 165 

tor invisible 431 

ornaments, cleaning 290 

packing 142 

plating, 'solution for 404 

polishers, tablecloths, old, from 233 

polishing 143 

purifying 413 

seals, cleaning 145 

shells ; 414 

solder 394, 413 

stains, removal of, from 143 

sterling 412 

storing 142 

tarnished, boiling 144 

polishing 144 

test for 405 

tree 413 

washing 133-143 

Silvering 413 

amalgam for 384 

metals 413 

Silverware, care of 142 

pockets 142-143 

yellow soap for 199 

Simplicity, wisdom of 35 

Sink, dishwashing, for 133 

drain 113 

homemade 146 

odors of 135 

spout, disinfecting 145 

stopped up 145 

Sinks, bacteria in 253 

care of 145 

cleaning 145 

dry 146 

iron, care of 146 

kitchen 74 

house, not put against wall of 113 

water supply for 112 

lead for lining 391 

painted, cleaning 146 

Sirup, almond paste, in 469 

candied sweetmeats, for 520 

candles 530 

canning, for 553 

crystals, for 520 

molds, for 520 

preserving, for 553 

testing 518 

Size, gliding on china, for 410 

glass, for 410 

isinglass 374 

paper hanging, tor 281 

Sizes of coal 81 

small, coal, to use 82 

Skates, rust, protecting from 298 

Skeleton key 286 

Skimmed milk, skin, for the 463 

Skin, anatomy of 438 

diseases of the 439 

iodine soap for 451 

tar soap for 451 i 

hardening the 438 

milk for the 463 

pores of the 441 

relaxed, ointment for 440 

stains, removal, from 451 

the, color of 438 

white, soap for making 451 

Skins, fur, tanning 416 

Skirt bindings 243 

board, sewing room. In 236 

cotton dress, cleaning 168 

divided, house cleaning, for 261 

dry-cleaning white 167 

lengthening a 245 

plaited, packing , 302 



PAGE 

Skirts, cleaning 175 

cotton dress, cleaning 168 

lengthening 245 

mending 243 

starching 225 

Skylight, fire escape, as 91 

Slacked lime, woody taste, removal of 136 

Slate color, fixing 210 

kitchen 77 

Sleep, dreamless' 151 

fresh air 645 

hot nights, on 153 

Inducing 152 

nature of 58, 150 

objects 58 

preparation for 160 

ventilation 645 

Sleeping porch 61 

porches, sanitariums, in 59 

powders, effects, evil, of 152 

rooms 58 

pictures for 55 

Sleeplessness, causes of 151 

prevention of 153 

Sleeve board, sewing room, in 236 

protectors 136 

old stockings as 136 

Sleeves, making over 245 

mending .- 243 

puffy, puff iron for 226 

Sling, arm, injured 647 

Slip, invalids, for 669 

Slippery-elm bark, animal oils, for 

preserving 377 

tea, invalids, for 671 

Small economies 77 

Smalts, sealing wax, for blue 375 

Smelling salts 479 

carbonate of ammonia, a 158 

Smoke, alcohol stove, none with 110 

breathing of, preventing 92, 104 

chimneys, preventing, in 87 

consumption of 88 

fires, kindling, without 88 

lamp 104 

preventing in chimneys 87 

prevention of 88 

stains, removal of 278 

Smoked ham, storing 595 

Smoking pork hams 595 

Smoky chimney, curing a 87 

Smyrna rug, repairing 273 

Snake bite, treatment of 655 

Snap, candy making, in 519 

Snow water 115 

drinking, for 115 

Snuff, ants, for exterminating 319 

crickets, for exterminating 313 

Soaking garments 202 

laundry 202 

Soap 186 

k la rose 450 

almond 449 

cold cream, for 470 

arsenic 451 

bark 197 

men's clothes, for cleaning 175 

Oriental rugs, for 25S 

bayberry 451 

beef-gall 198 

blankets, for washing 218 

borax 449 

camphor 460 

carbolic-acid 451 

Castile 198 

teeth, for the 507 

caustic soda lye, from 197 

chemical 162 

chlorine, with 451 

cinnamon 450 

citron ,,. 450 



INDEX 



731 



PAOB 

Soap, corn meal 449 

drawers, for lubricating 264 

English bar 196 

frangipani 450 

furniture 288 

gloves, wash leather, for 178 

hard, caustic soap, from 195 

improving 192 

ingredients for 192 

nature of 187 

sal soda with 195 

softening 191 

white, bedspreads, in washing .... 218 

canvas shoes, for cleaning 420 

furniture, for polishing 381 

soap jelly, for 208 

washing powder, in 207 

yellow, lubricator, as wood 378 

honey 449 

importance of 186 

increasing 194 

iodine 451 

ironware, tor 137 

jelly 208 

calcimine, in 280 

gutta-percha, for cleaning 296 

laces, for 212 

making 198 

mattresses, for cleaning 267 

silk, for washing 171, 215 

woolen goods, for 217 

juniper tar 451 

kid, white, for 420 

leaks, for stopping 264 

mackintosh, white, cleaning 245 

making 186 

domestic art of 186 

kettle for 133 

materials for 187 

utensils for 187 

marine 198, 450 

Marseilles 198 

Masguere's acid 19S 

materials for 188 

medicated 450 

mildew, for 159 

musk 450 

naphtha, feathers, for cleaning ..... 179 

oatmeal 449 

odds and ends 198 

packing 193 

potash, hard 193 

preservation of 193 

properties of 186 

rosin, making 196-197 

soda, from 197 

rugs, for cleaning 270 

salt-water 450 

sand 198, 450 

sandalwood 450 

scouring 197 

scraps 198 

shaker, dishwashing, for 134, 199 

soft 191 

boiling process 190-191 

brushes, for cleaning 360 

cold process 189 

leather, for waterproofing 422 

nature of 187 

recipes for 190 

rosin, cold process 19" 

toilet, for 449 

washing fluids, in 207 

yellow hard soap, from 194 

stains, for 155 

starch with 224 

stove polish, in 128 

sulphur ■*B1 

test V 186, 452 

testing 10? 

tonquin 450 



PAGE 

Soap, transparent 451 

uses of 199 

water, for testing 204 

whale-oil 19T 

San Jos# scale, for 330 

white, clotheslines, for washing — 219 

feathers, for cleaning 179 

furs, for cleaning 180 

white goods, for bleaching 185 

Windsor 449 

wood floors, for cleaning 275 

yellow, Britannia ware, cleaning .... 145 

common 196 

grates, for cleaning 297 

bard, soft soap, from 194 

ink, for printing 432 

mildew, preservation against 164 

oilcloth, for washing 258 

rosin, use of, in 366 

scouring mixture, in 162 

window sashes, for lubricating ... 286 

Soapiue, washing powder 207 

Soaps 448 

castor-oil ..1 198 

hard potash 193 

palm-oil 198 

perfumed 448 

soda 194 

alkaline 195 

soft soda, alkaline 196 

special 197 

toilet 448 

vegetable oil 198 

Soapstones, beds, warming 150 

Soapsuds, broom, rinsing in 251 

brushes, for cleaning 360 

cleansing 204 

embroideries, for washing 211 

hot, fleas, for destroying 314 

linoleum, renewal of 41 

poisoning, antidote for 649 

silk, for bleaching 184 

Soda, arsenlte of, Bordeaux mixture, 

for 330 

baking, bric-a-brac, for cleaning ... 292 

burners, for 149 

china, cleaning 145 

coarse paint, for cleaning 278 

ink, for 429 

in marking 428 

insect bites, for 655 

moth patches, for 440 

poison, antidote for 649 

bicarbonate of, medicine case, in ... 649 
bisulphate of, flannel, for bleaching 184 

calclmated, floors, for scouring 276 

carbonic-acid gas, from 89 

caustic, hard soap from 195 

soap, for 186-188 

chemical soap, in 162 

cooking, feathers, for purifying 262 

crystals, ink, for indelible 429 

cut glass, cleaning 140 

enameled ware, for 137 

flies, for recuttlng 336 

flres, for putting out 91 

hard water, softening 115, 204 

hearth, cleaning the 128 

hyposulphite of, acids, neutralizing 156 

iodine stains, removal of 165 

linen, for bleaching 182 

sheeting, for bleaching 18S 

ink, leather, removal from 418 

lye, cautions in use of 265 

hard water, for softening 204 

iron kettles, for 137 

sal soda, to make from 188 

tallow, for clarifying lOT 

lyes, laundry, in the 204 

nickel, for cleaning 129 

poisoning from 650 



732 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Soda, rosin soap trom 197 

scouring with 141 

alkaline 195-196 

stiver, stained, for 143 

soaps 194 

starch with 225 

stove, greasy, washing 128 

tungstate of, fires, prevention of 92 

garments, flreproofing 92 

washing, windows, for cleaning 285 

water, for clarifying 116 

Soft coal, stove polish, in 128 

rosin soap, cold process 197 

sealing wax 375 

soap 189-191 

boiling process 191 

cold process 190 

recipes for 190 

toilet, for 449 

yellow hard soap from 194 

zinc, for cleaning 299 

water, laundry, for 203 

Solder, aluminum 397 

coarse 393 

common, tin, for 393 

fine 393 

gold 409 

hard 394 

iron, workroom, in the 335 

making 394 

platinum 399 

silver 413 

soft 393 

tinware, tor mending 393 

using 394 

zinc 396 

Soldering liquid, making 393 

Solid colors, carpets, in 43 

fixing, dark 210 

light 210 

living rooms, for 37 

Solton, cast iron, for welding 386 

Soluble glass, bathroom walls, for 67 

fabric, flreproofing 93 

floors, for 42 

kitchen walls, for 74 

paints 362 

preservation of 351 

sand soaps, in 198 

white cement, for 351 

Solvents, spots and stains, for 155 

Soot, breathing 104 

carpets, removal of, from 272 

chimneys, cleaning, from 88 

preventing, in 87 

denatured alcohol, none from 110 

enameled ware, removal of, from . . . 137 

Illuminating gas, in 95 

iron kettles, loosening, from 137 

ironware, preventing, from burning 

on 137 

lamps, in 104 

removal of 148 

salt, removal of, with 148 

wounds, removal of, from 648 

Soothing sirups, poisoning from 650 

Sorrel, salts of 156 

Sorting pieces 65 

comforters, for 65 

SoufiSe, candy-making, in 519 

Soup, tomatoes, preserving, for 586 

Spalding's liquid glue 342 

Spanish peppers 576 

Spatula, toilet preparations, for 461 

Special soaps 197 

Specific gravity 641 

Spelter, nature of 395 

Sperm oil, nature of 377 

Spermaceti, almond lotions, in 466 

paste, in 469 

chapped lips, for 473 



PAGE 

Spermaceti, cold cream, tor 470 

hands, tor the 453 

for chapped 455 

mosquito bites, tor curing 326 

nature of 377 

starch, with 224 

test lor 475 

Spice mill, cleaning 137 

Spiced pickle 573 

Spices, cans, in baking-powder 78 

linen, for preserving 232 

shelves lor 75 

Spider stings, remedy tor 655 

Spinach leaves, toilet preparations 

tor 461 

Spirit varnish 369 

Spirits, hot, application of 661 

of hartshorn, see ammonia 158 

Splint, bones, for broken 658 

Splinter wound 648 

Splinters, nails, under the 456, 648 

Splints, arm fracture, for 658 

medicine case, In 649 

sprains, for 653 

Sponge bath, cold 444 

iron, filters, in 118 

lamp chimneys, for cleaning 148 

sour, cleaning a 448 

spots, for 156 

stains, for 156 

toilet 447 

Spoon, baking, rack lor 76 

Spoons, cooking, rack for 75 

measurement by 630 

Spores, dust, in 252 

Spots, grease 167-173 

ink, tartaric acid for 157 

kinds of 163 

removal of 174 

solvents tor 155 

treatment ot 155 

utensils tor 156 

white 176 

black goods, on 176 

Sprains, linseed oil lor 454 

treating 653 

Sprayers, compressed-air, insect pests, 

for 327 

Spraying, Bordeaux mixture for 327 

outfit, pests, for farm 326 

recipes for 327 

stock solution 328 

Spring house cleaning 260 

water 114 

drinking, for 114 

Springs, bed 62 

overfiow, measuring the 112 

steel, tempering 387 

water supply for 112 

Sprinkling clothes 222 

. object of 222 

utensils lor 222 

Sprouting, potatoes, keeping, Irom ... 606 

Squab, broiled, invalids, lor 667 

Square measure 614 

Squares, cocoanut 635 

Squashes, keeping 605 

"Squeegee," pictures, translerring 57 

Stain, floors, for 42 

Stained floors, cleaning 275 

varnish for 275 

glass, imitation ot 434 

Stains, acid 167 

linen, on 168 

removal of 156-158 

alkali 172 

animal fibers, removal of, from 169 

berry, treatment of 164 

brown earthenware, removal of, trom 139 

cod liver oil 167 

coffee 163 



INDEX 



PAQB 

Stains, colored silks, removal of, from 172 

dry, soaking for 165 

eradication of 165 

floor 274 

fresh, absorbents for 156 

milk for 167 

fruit 173 

oxalic acid for 157 

removal of 70 

gloves, removal of, from 178 

gasoline, gypsum for 161 

grass 163-167 

bands, to remove, from 462 

ink 70, 173 

books, on 70 

colored goods, on 167 

furniture, to remove, from 288 

linen, on 166 

removal of 432 

treatment of 165 

Iodine 166 

iron 70 

kinds of 163 

laundry, removal of, from 155 

linen, removal of, from 156 

match, removal of 278 

matting, removal of, from 272 

mud 167-173 

nitrate of silver 167 

nitric acid 167 

nutgall 165 

oil 173 

paint 165 

pigment for 274 

red rust, muriatic acid, removal of 158 

wine 167 

removal of 164-166 

rust 173 

silver, removal of, from 143 

smoke, removing 273 

soap for 165 

solvents for 165 

stubborn, buttermilk for 167 

bands, removal of, from 453 

removal of 453 

tannin 167 

tea 163 

treatment of 165 

utensils for 166 

vaseline, removal of 164 

vegetable, oxalic acid for 167 

wax 164-173 

alcohol for 164 

white linen or cotton, on 166 

wine 1'3 

yellow, linen, on 168 

Stair carpets 273 

padding for 273 

preventing wear of 269 

coverings, Venetian carpet for 40 

Stairs, sweeping the 260 

Stairways 39 

dado, protected by 39 

paper for 39 

Stamp, rubber, ink 431 

Stamped linen, duplication of 232 

outfit, linen, for 232 

patterns, homemade 247 

Standard time 639 

Standards, origin of 611-623 

Stand, umbrella 60 

Starch, absorbent, as an 169 

additions to 224 

application of 225 

blood stains, removal of 169 

bluing in 222 

borax, with 224 

brass, for cleaning 293 

inlaid work, for cleaning 291 

chemical soap, in 162 

colored clothes 226 



PAGE 

Starch, cooked 223 

dextrin, in 337 

garments, fireproo&ng 92 

grain, from 223 

gum arable, with 224 

ink stains, carpets, removal from... 271 

lace curtains, for mending 46 

lard, with 224 

making 223 

marble, oil stains, removal of, from 295 
mattresses, stains, removal of, from 267 

mildew, removal of 164 

mucilage, in 340 

potatoes, from 223 

powder, hands, for the 455 

powders. In toilet 471 

preparation of '. 223 

recipes, special, tor 224 

salt, with 224 

soap, with 224-225 

soda, with 226 

stearin, with 224 

sugar, with 224 

tea stains, removal of 168 

uncooked 224 

wash balls, for 460 

wax, with 223 

windows, for cleaning 286 

woolens, for washing 217 

Starching clothes 223 

white dress goods 226 

Steam, carpet beetles, tor destroying 311 

heating system 82-83 

hot, moths, for destroying 307 

radiators, vacuum valve on 84 

velvet, for restoring 245 

Steaming, windows, preventing 285 

Stearic acid 108 

cold cream, for 470 

fats, in animal 108 

Stearin 108 

fats, in animal 108 

harness, for 425 

sealing wax, for white 375 

starch with 324 

waxed floors, for polishing 256 

Steel, aluminum for 397 

annealation of 387 

blue, staining 387 

taking off from 387 

bluing 38T 

burnt, restoring 388 

casehardening 385 

cement for 343 

forks, rust, prevention of, on 141 

gray, staining 387 

ink for 431 

instruments, lettering on 409 

rust, preservation of, from 409 

joints, soldering 386 

knives, rust, prevention of, on 141 

scouring 141 

washing 141 

leather, fastening, to 346 

melting 387 

nature of 384-385 

nickel 397 

nature of 39T 

painting, specifications for 368 

polished 388 

keeping 388 

rust-proof paint for 388 

rust, to protect, from 388 

scale, to remove, from 387 

softening 385 

solder 394 

soldering 386 

springs, tempering 387 

staining 387 

table knives 299 

rust, preventing, from 299 



734 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Steel, temper of, drawing 385 

tempering 385-387 

tougbening 388 

wool, waxed floors, tor 256 

work, cement for 348 

painting, specifications for 358 

Stencil, border, as 38 

decorative border for 46 

inlt, black 429 

making 429 

linen, for 429 

Stepladder, slipping, preventing, from 266 

Steps, marble, cleaning 295 

Sterilization of dust 253 

Sterilizing fruit jars 663 

milk 672 

Sterling money 642 

silver 412 

Stick-lac 366 

varnisb, nature of 366 

Stills, perfumes, for making 479 

Stimulants, sleeplessness, cause of ... 162 

Stipple wall painting 359 

Stitch, crochet, darning with 244 

Stock solution, spraying, for 326 

Stockings, cotton, crazy quilt, pieces for 66 

lamp wicks, for 149 

crochet needle, mending with 244 

fancy-colored thread for i 244 

mending 243 

by hand 244 

old, disposition of 264 

quilts, old, for 65 

rugs, for 44 

sewing machine, darning, on 244 

Bilk, crazy quilts, pieces for 66 

washing 216 

sleeve protectors, as 136 

stove holders, for 129 

woolen, crazy quilts, pieces tor .... 66 

darning 244 

Stone, cement for 347 

color, fixing 210 

rotten, blackboards, in paint, for... 361 

varnish, for finishing 365 

varnish 372 

walks, cleaning 295 

Stonework, cleaning 292 

cost of 619 

imitating 362 

measuring 619 

Stool bath 445 

kitchen, for 134 

Stopper, glass 292 

loosening 292 

Storax, honey water, in 464 

rubber cement, tor 345 

sealing wax, in 374 

for perfuming 376 

tincture of, almond creams, in 467 

Store silks 230 

storeroom 73-79 

cellar as , 79 

conveniences for 73 

Storing table leaves 73 

Stove, asbestos, protection of 130 

blacking 128 

yellow soap, with 199 

cook, clean, keeping 128 

Franklin 86 

heat, economy of 86 

holders 129 

pipe, drum radiator on the 86 

pipes, asbestos, protection of 130 

soda, washing, with 128 

Stov,es 110 

asphaltum varnish for 372 

care of 128 

castiron, tempering 386 

cement tor lining 348 

cleaning 128, 296 



PAGE 

Stoves, closed 85 

gas 86 

lighting 132 

gasoline 86 

kitchen, cleaning 296 

new, care of 129 

polishing 128-129 

rust, prevention of 297 

protecting from 297-298 

Strainer, rack tor 76 

Straw, bleaching 184 

javelle water tor 160 

braid, bleaching 184 

cleaning 179 

color, paint, mixing 364 

goods, bleaching 184 

hats, cleaning 180 

sizing 181 

matting 44 

mattresses 62 

pillows, tor fancy 49 

Strawberry bonbons, cocoanut 627 

caramels 537 

Stretcher, curtain 214 

Strop, razor 498 

order, keeping, in 498 

Strops, razor, preparations tor 498 

Strychnine, poisoning from 651 

rats, for 315 

Stubborn stains, buttermilk tor 157 

Stucco, painting, specifications for ... 357 

work, polishing 295 

Student lamps 104 

alcohol 110 

Stunning, treatment of 652 

Style, antique 35 

Stylographic ink 165 

carpets, removal of, from 271 

Suede, black, ink, black, for 178 

Suet, almond paste, in 469 

Circassian cream, in 473 

cold cream, tor 470 

food chopper for 137 

gas range, for 131 

leather, for waterproofing 422 

sealing wax, tor red 375 

Sugar, almond preparations, in 466 

articles, for cracked ; 138 

bags, dishcloths, as 136 

blacking, liquid, for 424 

boiling 518 

candy 517-530 

candying 518 

clarification of 518 

cube, rose water, for 480 

fiavoring 642 

flour paste, with 339 

freckles, for 462 

ink, in 427 

laces, in starching 230 

leather, tor blacking 417 

loaf, leather, in waterproofing 423 

of lead, fires, for putting out 91 

flexible varnish, in 368 

nature of 392 

solid colors, for fixing 210 

paste blacking, for 424 

portable glue, in 342 

silks, in washing 215 

starch with 224 

stove polish, in 129 

tea stains, for removal of 168 

vinegar 665 

water, ink, for invisible 430 

whitewash, in 279 

Sugared almonds 63Bi 

Sulphate of alumina, water, for clari- 
fying lia 

aluminum, label mucilage, in 340 

copper, electroplating, in 440 

iron, gilding, for 410 



INDEX 



735 



PAGE 

Sulphate of iron, water, for clarifying 116 

potash, books, for iron stains on 70 

potassium, plaster of Paris, with 435 

soda, hard, soap, for 192 

zinc, blackheads, tor 439 

leather, for tanning 415 

Sulphur, ants, for exterminating 319 

bonfires, for 106 

books, for grease or oil on 70 

carpet beetles, for destroying 311 

cellars, for disinfecting 263 

cockroaches, for exterminating 311 

combustion, in 123 

fires, for putting out 88 

flowers of, woolen goods, for bleaching 183 

silk, for bleaching 172 

akin, for the 463 

hands, stains, removal of, from 453 

iron, for softening 335 

jewelry, tarnishes 433 

matches, tor making 437 

mildew, plants, for removal of, from 329 

moths, for destroying 307 

picture frames, for gilt 290 

red wine, for removal of 167 

rosin cement, in 344 

rust, for removing 299 

silver, for discolored 144 

soap .' 450—451 

spraying, for 329 

straw bats, for cleaning 180 

turpentine, dissolved by 159 

wash, San Jos6 scale, tor 331 

waterproof varnish, in : 368 

woolen goods, for bleaching 183 

Sulphureted hydrogen, test for 59 

silver, enemy of 142 

Sulphuric acid, alabaster, stains, for 

removal of, from 436 

animal matter, test for 115 

attar of rose, test for 475 

blacking, liquid, for 424 

bleaching, for 182 

carbonic-acid gas, from 89 

eleotrotyping, in 403 

feathers, for bleaching 184 

flies, in recutting 337 

gray, steel, for staining 387 

hands, stains, for removal of, from 453 

Ink, in 426-427 

tor invisible 431 

furniture, removal of, from 288 

stains, for removing 433 

ivory, for etching on 435 

kerosene oil, for purifying 102 

leaks, for stopping 264 

leather, for black 417 

medicine stains, for removal of . . . 144 

mucilage, tor preserving 341 

muriatic acid, in 158 

musty bottles, sweetening 141 

nails, for whitening the 456 

paste blacking, for 423 

poisoning from 649 

putty, for removal of 279 

shoes, in waterproofing 422 

silver, discolored, for cleaning 143 

stearin, making 108 

stone varnish, in 372 

straw braid, tor bleaching 184 

test for 567 

tinning, for 393 

use of 453 

vegetable matter, test for 115 

vegetable oils, for purifying 376 

water, for clarifying 116 

wax, for removing 257 

wood, for flreprooflng 93 

ether, chemical soap, in 162 

kid gloves, for cleaning 179 

turpentine, for mixing with 169 



PAGB 

Sulphurous acid, bleaching, tor 183 

gas, bedbugs, for exterminating... 313 

fleas, for destroying 314 

fruit stains, for removal of 70 

ether, paint dissolved by 164 

Sumac, tannin in 416 

Summer complaint, children, of 672 

homes, effects of 41 

Sun admitted freely 61 

burns from 656 

windows, keeping out of 285 

Sunburn, lotions for 465 

Sunfish, mosquitoes, for destroying... 325 

Sunlight, dust, sterilization of 253 

germs, kills 252 

sick room, in 663 

Sunstroke, shock from 652 

treating 647 

Superficial measure 614 

Superfiuous hair 495 

Surface, measures of 643 

Surgery, silver nitrate used in 412 

Surveyor's measure 615 

Swab, dishwashing, for 133-134 

Swan's-down, cleaning 180 

washing 180 

Sweat glands, skin, in the 438 

Sweep carpets, to 269 

how to 250 

Sweeper, carpet 2B0 

care of 252 

Sweeping 251 

broom, with a 250 

day 250 

Friday as 250 

gas range, cover 131 

registers closed while 84 

stairs 250 

tea leaves for 133 

utensils tor 250 

Sweet almond lozenges 540 

breads, broiled, invalids, for 667 

clover, flies, preventive against 322 

cucumbers 574 

marjoram, linen, for preserving 232 

melons} pickling 574 

oil, blacking, liquid, for 424 

brass furniture, for cleaning 291 

Britannia ware, cleaning 145 

bronzes, tor cleaning 291 

fly paper, for 323 

freckle lotion, in 463 

furniture, for cleaning 287 

grates, for cleaning 297 

leather, for black 417 

paste blacking, for 423 

patent leather, for 424 

shoes, for squeaking 420 

in waterproofing 422 

silver seals, for cleaning 145 

soap, for soft 449 

steel fittings, for cleaning 128 

for keeping polished 388 

knives, for preventing rust on . . 141 

stoppers, removal of 292 

woodwork, for polishing 278 

pickles : 574 

potatoes, storing 606 

Swiss, dotted, curtains, for 45 

valances 63 

Sympathetic ink 430 

System, habits of 68 

hot-air 84 

ideal 84 

Systems, heating 81-82 

illumination, use of 94 

lighting, cost of 94 

Table, adjustable, sick room, for the 662 

asbestos, protection of 130i 

candles for 109 



736 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Table, center 53 

covers, woolen, washing 217 

dishwashing, tor 133 

dressing 67 

folding, dishwashing, for 133 

hinged, kitchen, tor the 134 

kitchen 75 

homemade 75 

library, for 68 

knives, steel, rust, for preventing, 

on 299 

leaves, storing 73 

library, for 68 

linen, hemming 232 

mending 240-241 

stains, removal of 168 

wear, preventing 229 

oilcloths, cleaning 258 

pad 73 

rolling 76 

sewing, handy 236 

small, sick room, tor 664 

tea 53 

work 236 

Tablecloth, asbestos, protection of 130 

economics 233 

Tablecloths, folding 229 

hanging out 220 

ironing 229 

new, buying, when 233 

old stains on 169 

rinsing 208-229 

Tables, preparations, tor toilet 462 

Taboret 53 

Tacks, bottles, for cleaning 140 

Taffeta, linen, curtains, for 45 

Tatty 517 

candy pulls, tor 527 

molasses 528 

pull, a 628 

Tainted meat, sweetening 590 

Talc, gold colored, sealing wax, for... 375 
Talcum powder, kid gloves, polishing 179 

powders. In toilet 471 

Tallow, absorbent, as an 159 

axle grease, for 378 

candles from 107 

clarification of 107 

floors, wax, for polishing 256 

ink, gloves, removal from 179 

linen, removing from 167 

removal of 166 

iron, tor drawing temper ot 385 

kid boots, for 420 

kindling, as 127 

lubricator, as a 377 

mutton, candles, for 107 

plaster of Paris, mold tor 435 

sealing wax, for red 375 

stearin, making 108 

steel, for rust-prooflng 388 

tar varnish, in 372 

varnish. In 372 

wax, in grafting 344 

Tan bark, ice houses, for 120 

lotions for 465 

rooms, toning down for south 36 

shoes, darkening 421 

polishing 420 

Tanks, cast-iron, cement for 348 

cement for 347 

kerosene, tor mosquitoes 325 

measurements ot 623 

Tannate of iron, Ink, in 426 

Tannic acid, banana peel. In 420 

hands, for moist 452 

Ink, in 426-427 

Tannin, leather cement, in 360 

nature of 416 

oil, paste blacking, tor 424 

stains 167 



PAOB 

Tannin stains, javelle water, removal 

of 167 

Tanning, art of 415 

extracts 415 

leather, materials for 415 

Tape hangers, towels, for 136 

measure, convenient 240 

renovating 240 

shoe boxes for 234 

stove holders, for 130 

Tapestry brussels carpet 39 

carpets, wearing qualities 43 

Tapioca, invalids, for 668 

Tar, casks, for 262 

colored goods, on 173 

kindling, as 127 

leaks, for stopping 264 

paint. In 353 

paper, bedding, for storing 309 

moths, for repelling 306 

pitch, dampness, for preventing 284 

rectified, nails, for toughening 456 

removal of 164 

silk, removal from 171 

soap 451 

soft, rat holes, for 316 

stains 173 

steel, for toughening 388 

varnish 372 

Tarnished silver, boiling 144 

polishing 144 

Tartar, cream ot 156 

acid principle of 167 

emetic, nature of 398 

poisoning from 650 

tartaric acid used as 167 

oil, sunburn lotions, in 465 

of, almond creams, in 467 

silvering, for 413 

teeth, on the 504 

Tartaric acid, alkali stains, removal of 172 

application of 158 

books, for cleaning 70 

grass stains, for 157,163 

linen, removal from 167 

Ink eraser, as 70 

stains, carpets, removal from 271 

colored goods, removal from... 167 

nature of 157 

poisoning from 649 

solution, saturated, of 157-158 

stains, removal of 156 

tannin stains, removal of 167 

uses of 157 

Taste, decorating, good and bad, in... 34 

pictures, good and bad, in 54 

Tea, black silk, tor cleaning 171 

cold, carpets, freshening faded 271 

furniture, for cleaning 287, 382 

white paint, for cleaning 278 

fiy paper, for 323 

green, black lace, for sponging 213 

laces, for tinting 230 

leaves, carpets, when sweeping .... 269 

dust, tor preventing 251 

grate, for keeping clean 130 

pillows, for fancy 49 

sweeping, for 133 

mirrors, for cleaning 286 

sleeplessness, cause of 152 

stains 163 

linen, on 163,169 

removal of 168 

table 63 

Teakettle 138 

crust inside the 115 

lime, avoiding iss 

oyster shell in the 115 

Teapots, musty odor, prevention ot... 139 
Teasel brush, cloth, for raising nap on 245 
Teeth 602 



INDEX 



737 



PAGB 

Teeth, amalgam, dentists', tor filling 614 

artificial 513 

bad 502 

care of 504 

children, of 603 

examination of 647 

filling, temporary, tor the 514 

good 502 

Infant's 503 

permanent 504 

care of 504 

structure of the 503 

tartar on the 504 

whiten, to 607 

Telephone systems, effects of 41 

Temper, Iron, to draw from 385 

steel, to draw from 385 

withdrawing 3S5 

Temperature, bath, of 443 

measuring 641 

sleep. In 150 

Temple, bleeding of 655 

Tents, waterproof, to 94 

Terra cotta, rooms, for west 36 

Test, soap, tor 186 

Tetanus, germ of' 648 

Textile fabrics, silvering 413 

Thermometers, mercury for 398 

Thermostat 83 

Thigh, bleeding of 654 

Thinners, paints, for 353 

Thistle, cloth, for raising nap on 245 

Thread, box for 234 

breaking of, in sewing machine 236 

candy making. In 519 

care of 238 

darning 244 

gloves, for mending 243 

waste, bags for 237 

Threading needles 238 

"Three-ply" carpet 39 

Throat, examination of 647 

■ foreign bodies in 655 

Thyme, linen, for preserving 232 

oil of, lavender water, for 481 

sachet, for 477 

Ticking, dish towels, for 136 

stove holders, for 130 

Ticks, pillow 50 

protecting 64 

Tile, bathroom, for 67 

sink drain, for 113 

Tiles, wells, lining 114 

Time, measurement of 637-638 

-table, cooks' complete 631 

Tin box, matches, for 130 

cans 78 

shelves tor 75 

use of 78 

■ compounds of 393 

crystallizing 395 

filings 394 

foil, damp walls, for 284 

mirrors, tor 398 

solder, In 394 

glass globes, in silvering 414 

gold lacquer for 407 

grains, in 394 

mouse holes, for 316 

mucilage for 340 

muriate of 394 

nature of 393 

nitrate of, yellow, for dyeing 395 

oxide of 394 

pans, mending 394 

solder, mending without 394 

plate 393 

ink for 431 

moir6 ipetalUque, ornamenting by 393 

nature of 393 

ornamenting 393 



PAGE 

Tin plate, tinware, for mending 393 

rfliCk • • • V6 

sink lined"wlth"!'.!!!!!!!!!!!!!iiiii.. 146 

solution, nature of 393 

of, scarlet cloth, for cleaning 177 

test tor 405 

tree, making a 395 

Tincture of iron, brass, for black dip- 
ping 401 

Tinctures, preparation of 479 

Tins, greasy, sal soda tor 138 

new, preparing 138 

scouring 138 

Tint, bathroom, walls of 67 

Tints, light, absorb 36i 

paints, of 364 

Tinware 138 

cement for 347 

cleansing 138 

mending : 393 

new, protection of 138 

rust, preventing from ; 138, 298 

washing 133, 138 

Tissue, mending 241 

paper 77 

furniture, for polishing 381 

glassware, polishing 141 

lamp chimneys, tor polishing 148 

mirrors, tor cleaning 286 

quilts, for 65 

silver, protecting 142 

uses of 77 

rubber mending, carpets, for patch- 
ing 273 

Toadstools, poisoning from 650 

Toast, creamed, invalids, for 666 

water, invalids, for 670 

Toaster, rack for 76 

Tobacco, mosquito bites, for curing. . 326 

moths, for 305, 308 

poisoning from 650 

Toilet powders 471 

preparations 458 

bases of 459 

commercial 482 

homemade 446 

mineral drugs in 460 

recipes for the 458 

soap, soft, for the 449 

test for 452 

soaps 448 

sponge 447 

the 438, 446 

vinegar 471 

water, Lewis's, shaving, for ..; 499 

waters, perfumed 480-481 

Tolu, tincture of, freckles, for 463 

sunburn lotions, tor 465 

Tomato catsup 582 

ink, removal from linen 168 

Tomatoes, canning 583 

pickling 577 

soup, preserving, tor 586 

storing 605 

Tongues, pickling 593 

Tonics, hair 488-489 

Tonquln soap 460i 

Tools, arrangement of 334 

care of 334 

chest of, workroom, for the 334 

packing 302 

rust, protected from 334 

varnish for 369 

transparent, tor 370 

Toothache 511 

fomentation cloth for 6e<t 

remedies 612 

treatment of 612 

Toothbrush, care of 505 

sliver, for polishing 143 

Tooth pastes 609 



738 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Tooth powder 607 

powders, to compound 607 

Toothpicks 605 

Torn book pages, mending 71 

Toweling, crash 233 

Towels, dish, to make 136 

hanging 136 

line for 134 

raw linen , 233 

roller 136 

Toxins, disease, cause of 253 

Toys, colored copal Tarnish for 371 

Tracing paper, book pages, for torn . . 71 

Trade packages, weights of 627 

Train oil, nails, rust, for preserving, 

from 298 

nature of 377 

Transparent soap 451 

denatured alcohol, use of, for 110 

Trapping rats ; 316 

Traps, baiting 317 

cockroach, using 312 

Traveling, packing for 302 

Tray cloths, tablecloths, old, from ... 233 

dishwashing, for 133 

Tree, lead 392 

Trees, shoe, homemade 419 

Trellis, ice houses, for 120 

Trench, drainage, for 113 

Trimmings 245 

silk, stiffening for 245 

Tripe, pickled 698 

Trolley systems, effects of 41 

Troubles, gas 98 

sewing machine 236 

Trousers, boys', mending 242 

Troy weight 625 

Tub, bath, iron, painting an 442 

Tuberose, tinctures, for 479 

Tucks, pufl iron for 226 

toy flatiron for 226 

Tuesday, wash day, as 154 

Tumbler, common, measurement by.. 630 
Turkey wings, Are box, brushing out. 124 

Turkish towel, laces, for ironing 230 

Turmeric acid, lacquers, in 370 

Turn cap, chimney, on the 88 

Turnips, preserving 605 

Turpentine, alcohol, mixing, with 159 

application of 159 

asphalt dissolved by 367 

asphaltum varnish, in 372 

awnings, for waterproofing 94 

bedbugs, for avoiding 313 

bedroom ware, cleaning 147 

bed ticking, for 267 

bleaching by 133 

brushes, for cleaning 360 

canvas tents, for waterproofing 94 

carpets, for freshening faded 271 

copal varnish with 370-371 

curtains, for washing 214 

flatting with 365 

floors, for 274 

fur, for grease on 180 

furniture, bruises, removal of, from 288 

for cleaning 287 

for polishing 381 

in paste for 382 

in waxing 380 

gilt frames for mending 291 

glass cement, in 349 

gloves, for cleaning 177 

grates, for blackening 297 

grease, floors, for removal of, from 277 
leather, for removal of, from .."... 418 

matting, for removal of, from 272 

for removal of 69, 170 

harness, for 425 

iron, for softening 386 

Ivory, for cleaning 292 



PAGE 

Turpentine, ivory knife handles, for 

bleaching 142 

Japan, priming, tor 355 

kid gloves, for cleaning 179 

kindling, as 127 

laundry, in the 204 

leather, for waterproofing 422 

matches, for making 436 

mixing 159 

musical Instruments, tor 289 

nature of 474 

oil of 159 

gilding, for cleaning 411 

paint, thinner for 363 

resin dissolved by 159 

test for 475 

oil-stained floors, for 275 

paint, tor cleaning 277 

paint dissolved by 164 

stains, for 165,278 

paste blacking, for 424 

patent leather, for 424 

pianos, for 289 

printer's ink, for removal of 167 

rosin, for dissolving 366 

rubber cement, for 345 

soap, in 198 

scouring mixture, in 162 

silk, paint, for removal of, from 171 

silver, for cleaning 145 

spirits of, cleansing mixture, in 161 

oils, dissolved by 164 

steel, polished, for keeping 388 

for rust-prooflng 388 

stove polish, in 128 

tar, colored goods, for removal of , from 173 

uses of 159 

varnish with ; 371 

gold lacquer, for 407 

Venetian, sealing wax, for red 375 

washing fluids, with 206-207 

wax, for removing 257 

waxed floors, spots, for removal of, 

from 266 

wicks, for candle 107 

woodwork, for polishing 278 

wounds, for cleansing 648 

zinc, for cleaning 299 

Twine, common, uses of 77 

Twist candy 53^ 

Type metal 392 

nature of 393 

Typhoid, flies, from 321 

germs of 14s 

kitchen sinks, due to 74 

Umber, burnt, black walnut, for imi- 
tating 274 

flexible varnish, in 368 

waterproofing and blacking, in 94 

raw, green, for coloring bronze 401 

stonework, imitation of 362 

Umbrella stand ., 50 

Umbrellas, mending tissue for 345 

United States Government, land meas- 
ure 616 

money 641 

Underfeed furnaces 83 

Underwear, embroidery edging for ... 248 

knitted, drying 221 

Unpaint^d floors, care of 276 

Upholstered furniture, cleaning 292 

leather, replaced by 34 

moths in 3081 

unfashionable 34 

wood articles, replaced by 34 

Utensils, cooking, cleaning 137 

dishwashing, for .r '. 13J 

ironing, care of !.!!..!.! 225 

kitchen rack, for 75 

laundry ...!!.!!! 201 



INDEX 



739 



PAGE 

Utensils, rack, kitchen, tor 76 

small, laundry, for 201 

washing, for 201 

soap making, for ; . . . . 187 

spots, for 156 

sprinkling, for 222 

stains, for 1B6 

sweeping, for 2B0 

various 137 

washing, for 200 

workroom, for 335 

in the 335 

Utilities, other Ill 

Vacation trips, toy flatiron for 26 

Vacuum cleaners, dust, for preventing 254 

steam system, heating system 84 

valve, steam radiators, on 84 

Valance, Swiss 63 

Valances 63 

making 63 

unfashionable 34, 63 

Vanilla cream, French 525 

beans, sachet, for 477 

sugar, preparation of 542 

Varicose veins, treatment of 654 

Varnish, amber 367 

anime 368 

asphaltum 372 

balloon 368 

black asphalt, ironwork, for 368 

leather, for 425 

balsam 373 

bookbinder's 373 

hrushes, for cleaning 360 

cement 344 

for 348 

cleaning 277 

copal 367 

colored 371 

turpentine, with 371 

cotton, on 42 

drawings, for , 373 

electrotyping, in ' 404 

ethereal amber, chloroform for 372 

finishing 365 

Are extinguisher, for 90 

flexible 368 

floors; stained, for 275 

foundation for ^ 380 

French, leather, for 423 

hard-oil, bedbugs, for exterminating 313 

ingredients of 36, 365 

Instruments, musical, for 374 

kinds of 367 

leather, for 372 

linen closet shelves, for 231 

map 372 

mastic 373 

musical instruments, for 374 

oil paintings, for 372 

cement, wood, in 349 

paint, linoleum, renewal of 41 

paintings, oil, for 372 

parchment 374 

pictures, transferring 57 

prints, for 373 

receptacle for 335 

rust, to prevent 372 

sealing wax, from 372 

shellac 373 

stained floors, for 275 

stone 372 

turpentine, with 371 

waterproof 368 

white, ink, for show-card 430 

picture frames, for 290 

window glass, for 372 

zinc Hi 

Varnished furniture, polishing 380 

Varnishes 367 



PAOQ 

Varnishes, copal 370 

denatured alcohol 110 

ether 371 

flxed-oil 367 

preparation of 367 

lac 368 

miscellaneous 372. 

sandarac 371 

shellac 369 

special 372 

spirit 369 

volatile oil 371 

Varnishing 365 

Vaseline, irons, rust, prevention of... 226 

leather, mildew, removal from 418 

medicine case, in . ., 649 

metals, rust, protecting from 298 

stains, removal of 164 

turpentine, removal of 159 

Vases, cleaning 140,292 

Vegetable cellar 262, 604 

flbers, bleaching 181 

cellulose in 181 

stains, to remove from ,. 168 

matter, test for 115 

oils, flxed 376 

purifying 376 

pits 604 

poisons 650 

Vegetables, cold storage for 118 

diet of 646 

lath boxes for 609 

pickling 570 

preservation of 587 

preserving by means of ice 118 

stains, oxalic acid for 157 

storing 604 

Vehicles 460 

toilet preparations 460 

Veil, complexion, for preserving the. . 447 
white lace, washing 213 

Velvet Brussels carpet 39 

carpet 39 

cleaning 170, 172 

creased, restoring 245 

faded, reviving 172 

gasoline, cleaning with 160 

Velveteen, cushions, for chair 50 

ivory, for polishing 434 

silver, for polishing 143 

stoves, for polishing 129 

Venetian carpet 40 

red, mahogany furniture, paste for.. 382 

red paint, for 363 

turpentine, brittleness, for prevent- 
ing 369 

sandarac varnish, in 371 

Ventilate cellars, to 262 

bedrooms, to 60 

chimneys 8T 

when to 59 

Ventilating grate, combustion, prod- 
ucts of, escape 86 

registers 86 

Ventilation, bedrooms, of 58 

cellars, of 262 

dust, for preventing 254 

fireplaces, open 86 

Franklin stove for 85 

hot air, unnecessary with 84 

InsufBcient, effects of 69 

necessity of 645 

sick room, of 662 

steam heat, necessary with 83 

Ventilator, chimney as 87, 263 

Verandas 80 

Verdigris, gilding, for coloring 410 

gold bronze, for 402 

green paint, in 363 

ink, in green 430 

for metal label 431 



740 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Verdigris, metals, removal from 293 

paint, dryer £or 363 

poison, as 139 

sealing wax, for green 375 

waterproofing and blaclcing 94 

Vermilion, red paint, in 363 

Vermin, alum wash for 310 

avoiding 42, 264 

benzine wash for 310 

phosphorus paste for 310 

salberg wash for 310 

whitewash for 310 

Vest-pocket light 105 

Vinegar, alkali stains, removal of 172 

aromatic 471, 568 

toilet, for the 471 

black, reviving faded 176 

silk, for cleaning 171 

blackened walls, for 284 

blacking, liquid, for 424 

brass, in bronzing 401 

casein cement, in 344 

cask, sweetening a 262 

chandelier, for cleaning a 292 

cider, cheap 565 

filter for 117 

making quickly 565 

clarification of 566, 573 

colored woolens, in washing 216 

colors, for brightening 211 

for fixing -. 210 

copperware, for 137 

decolorizing 567 

fermenting 563 

furniture, for cleaning 382 

polishing 381 

gilding, in 410 

glass, cleaning cut 140 

gloves, wash-leather, for coloring . . 178 

glue, liquid, for making 341 

grease, leather, removal from 418 

bands, for moist 452 

ink, in 427 

oiliness, removal from 432 

for red 429 

stains, floors, removal from 277 

lamps, preventing smoking 149 

leather, in waterproofing 423 

liquors for 662 

making, methods of 561 

malt 664 

manufacturing for sale 564 

molasses, cheap 563 

money In 563 

mucilage. In 340 

nails, for whitening the 456 

pickles, for 572 

picture frames, for 290 

plaster of Paris, with 436 

poison, antidote for 649 

preserving ."..t 566 

purity of 567 

scorch, for removing 231 

stove polish, in 128 

strength of 567 

tins, scouring 138 

toilet 471 

wash for 562 

water for 662 

weak, strengthening 568, 673 

white wine 566 

prints, cleaning 70 

washing fluids, for 206-207 

wicks, cleaning 150 

windows, paint, removal from 285 

zinc, for cleaning 299 

Violet color paint, mixing 364 

Ink 430 

silk, acid stains, on 172 

tinctures, for 479 

varnish, making 371 



PAGE 

Violet water 480 

Violins, cleaner for 289 

rosin for bows of 366 

Vise, glue, for 338 

iron, workroom, for the 334 

wood, workroom, for the 334 

Vitriol, blue, cloth, flreprooflng 92 

fires, prevention of 92 

iron, for polishing 389 

San Jos6 scale, against 331 

chrome green, in making 363 

gold, for coloring 434 

green, ink, black, in 426 

iron, compound of 335 

oil of, see sulphuric acid. 

steel, for taking oft blue from 387 

white, awnings, waterproofing 94 

canvas tents, waterproofing 94 

shoes, for 419 

Volatile oils 376,474 

nature of 474 

-oil varnishes 371 

Voltaic batteries, mercury for 398 

Vomiting, poisoned, when 649 

Wagon bodies, capacity of 620 

Waists, cleaning 175 

cutting, scissors for 239 

flannel, washing 216 

mending 243 

white, starching 225 

Wall, background, as 36 

calcimined, upper part of 37 

coverings 36 

bedrooms, for 61 

cloth as 38 

dining room, for 73 

fading of 66 

materials used for 36 

painting, stipple 359 

paper, choosing 37 

cleaning 283 

color of 37 

design, small and simple 37 

discarded 34 

grease, to remove, from 283 

hanging 282 

cost of 614 

living rooms, for 37 

mending 283 

removing 281 

soaked, cracks, plaster, for filling. 281 

solid-colored 34 

"butted" 37 

expensive 37 

hanging, care in 37 

smooth wall for 37 

trimming 37 

taste in 37 

test for 38 

two-toned 37 

papers, tight and warm, for keeping 

rooms 36 

wood-pulp 36 

surfaces, measurement of 614 

whitewashed, painting 283 

upper part of 37 

Walls, blackened, renovating 284 

blue wash for 280 

brick, measuring 619 

calcimine for 36 

calcimined, cleaning 284 

care of 284 

cleaning 277 

cloth for 36 

coloring 38 

damp, calcimine, preparing, for 284 

drying 284 

drying 284 

dusting 283 

enamel painting on 369 



INDEX 



741 



PAGE 

[Walls, kitchen 74 

mold, to remove 2S4 

paint for 36,353 

painting 38 

paper lor 36 

rough, painting 283 

papering 282 

stone, measuring ' 619 

■wash, blue, for 280 

washes for 36 

water colors for 36 

Walnut bonbons 527 

catsup 584 

-color paint, mixing S64 

creams, English 526 

hair dye 494 

Walnuts, pickled 579 

Walton, William, linoleum, inventor 

of 40 

Wardrobe 67 

homemade 67 

Wardrobes, cleaning 264 

Ware, bedroom 147 

cleaning 147 

Britannia, cleaning 145 

copper 139 

polishing 137 

enameled 137 

Japanned, cleaning '. 139 

wooden 139 

Wares, copper 389 

kitchen, care of 137 

Warming pan, old-fashioned 150 

Warp, rag-carpet, to color 43 

Wash bags, laundry, for 154 

balls 450 

toilet soap, for 450 

blue, ceilings, for 280 

walls, for 2S0 

boilers, cleaning 138 

bricks, for 280 

day 200 

Monday 164 

Tuesday, on 154 

plan for 202 

preparations for 154 

-leather gloves, cleaning 178 

coloring 178 

linens, to prepare, for 232 

vinegar, for 562 

Washable paper, kitchen walls, for... 74 

Washboard 134 

dishcloths for 134 

laundry, for ,. 201 

toy laundry, for 201 

Washes, hair, compounding 488 

mouth B09 

walls, tor 36 

Washing dishes, soap shaker in 199 

fluids 204-205 

boiling, in 203 

laundry, in 204 

sal soda, with 206 

soaking with 203 

with turpentine 206 

kerosene for 208 

machine 200 

laundry, for 201 

objects of 201 

powders 207 

boiling, in 203 

soaking with 202 

tin cans "» 

utensils for 200 

Washstand, oilcloth for 67 

substitute for 67 

Wasps, sting of 665 

Waste, hot air, to prevent, of 85 

land, estimate. of 616 

pipes, cesspool 146 

silk, uses of 242 



PAQB 

Waste water, disposal of 112 

kitchen sink, from the 113 

Watch cases, Armenian cement for... 342 
Water, boiled, palatable, to make 

more 115 

boiling 115 

ant nests, tor destroying 320 

point of 132 

bottles, cleaning 140< 

cement, chimneys, tor 87 

clarification of 115 

closets, water supply for 112; 

-color paints 35£ 

vehicle for 369 

colors, balsam varnish for 373 

ceilings, for 38 

kitchen walls, for 74 

shellac for dissolving 369 

wall paper, for 369 

for renovating 284 

cool, keeping, without ice 115 

distilled 460i 

drinking 114 

earthenware, keeping cool 115. 

filter, homemade 117 

filters lie 

freezing point of • 11& 

furniture, for cleaning 287 

glass, acid-proof paint, for 362 

fioors, for 42 

hard, softening 115, 204 

heater, gas 87 

hot,, application of 653 

ice, without, to keep cool 115 

javelle, making 160i 

uses of 160 

lard, adulteration of, with 600 

laundry, tor the 20S 

lavender 481 

lemon juice, tor making palatable... 115 

measurement by 630 

oil paint, to thin with 369 

pipes 113 

freezing, preventing 113 

frozen 114, 

thawing 114 

purification of 115 

rain 114 

rivers, from 114i 

rose 480 

sea, silk, to remove from 172 

sick room, heating, in 661 

snow 115 

softening 115 

spring 114 

supply 111-112 

bathrooms, for 112 

creeks, for Ill 

fire, protection against 112 

gravity, for 112 

kitchen sinks, for 112 

laundry 20S 

pumps, for 112 

springs, for 112 

tanks, for 112 

water closets, for 112 

windmill 113 

testing 115, 204 

toilet, perfumed 480 

use of 441 

vinegar, tor 562 

violet : 480 

waste, disposal ot 112 

well 114 

Watermelon preserves 557 

Waterproof awnings 94 

black 94 

canvas tents 94 

cement 348 

cloth 93 

glue 341 



742 



INDEX 



PAOB 

|Waterproo{ oilcloth paper, bathroom, for 37 

shellac 366 

varnish 369 

varnish 368 

Waterproofing 92-94 

leather 421 

shoes, India rubber for 422 

Wa^ absorbents for 159 

adulterated, testing 546 

bayberry soap, in 451 

bottle 344, 646 

candles, imitation of 109 

rolling 108 

cement 344 

chloroform, dissolved by 159 

electrotyplng, In 404 

floors, to 256,273 

removal from 257 

restoring 257 

gilding, for coloring 410 

grafting 344 

hard-wood floors, for 255 

Iron, protecting from rust 388 

leather furniture, for 418 

oil-stained floors, for 276 

paper, irons, for 227 

red bottle B60 

shoe strings, for 420 

silk, to remove from 171 

stains 164, 173 

alcohol for 164,173 

naphtha for 164 

starch with 223 

stearin candles, in 108 

steel, rust, protecting from 388 

turpentine, for removing 257 

varnish, oil painting, tor 372 

white, alcohol, cutting, with 381 

almond paste, in 469 

preparations, in 466 

chapped lips, for 473 

hands, for chapped 455 

harness, for 425 

sealing wax, for 375 

yellow, cement, for 344 

Waxed floors, polish for 256 

spots on 256 

steel wool for 256 

Weather, bad, washing in 220 

Weight, measures of : 623 

systems of 624 

Weights and measures 611 

household 628 

metric system of 642 

Well, dark, light in 106 

water 114 

drinking, for 114 

Wells 114 

Welsbach, alcohol lamps, on 110 

arc lamps 99 

burner 100 

advantages of 100 

economy of 98 

mantle, changing 98 

of, tarnished silver, for polishing 144 

rusty or dirty 98 

smoke, none from 98 

lamp, mantle, to change on 98 

Whale oil, nature of 377 

soap 197 

spraying, for 330 

Whalebone, rugs, for laying 258 

Wheat bran, black goods, for washing 246 

soap, from 449 

flour 338 

Wheelbarrow, clothes, for 220 

basket, for 219 

Wheels, bronze for 391 

Whetstone, workroom, in the 335 

Whetstones, oil for 378 

Whisk broom, house cleaning, when.. 266 



PAGE 

Whisky, medicine case. In 648 

silks, in washing 215 

White arsenic 330 

canvas shoes, cleaning 420 

dress goods, starching 225 

goods, bleaching faded 185 

bluing for 222 

box for 235 

citric acid, for 157 

dry-cleaning 167 

fading, preventing 184 

hanging out 220 

mending 242 

tartaric acid for 158 

](ld, ammonia for 420 

lace, washing 211 

lead 355 

steel, for - 388 

testing 392 

light, absorbs 36 

metal, nature of 396 

oak paint 364 

-of -egg cement 344 

oil paintings, restoration of 291 

paint 362 

cleaning 277 

rooms, for west 36 

sealing wax 375 

silk, washing 215 

soap, hard, washing fluid, for 206 

woolen shawls, for washing 217 

spots, black goods, on 176 

under the nails 457 

sugar, mucilage, for 340 

walnuts, pickling 579 

wax, cold cream, for 470 

furniture, for ; 380 

Whitewash, carpets, removal from ... 272 

cellars, for 262-263 

coloring '. 279 

floors, removal from 276 

outdoor use, for 280 

pink, Spanish brown for 279 

preparing 279 

poultry houses, spraying, in 327 

removal of 164 

removing, from carpets 272 

vermin, for 310 

Whitewashed wall, painting 283 

Whitewashing 279 

Whiting, alabaster, cleaning 296 

brass furniture, for cleaning 291 

for polishing 300 

dry, varnish, foundation for 380 

ivory, for polishing 434 

jewelry, for polishing 433 

lime paint, for 36I 

marble, for cleaning 294 

for polishing 295 

mirrors, for cleaning 285 

nickel, for cleaning 129, 294 

oven doors, for cleaning 131 

poison, antidote for : 649 

putty, in 356 

silver, for cleaning 143-145 

for polishing 143 

Spanish, calcimine, in 280 

stonework, for imitating 362 

stucco work, for ■ polishing 295 

tins, scouring 138 

tinware, for 138 

white paint, for 362 

for cleaning 277 

whitewash. In 279-280 

Wick, adjusting the 104 

candle, preparation of 107 

charred, explode, favorable to 103 

denatured alcohol, from, never burns 110 

no trimming required 110 

lamp, poor 102 

oil lamp, arrangement of 102 



INDEX 



743 



PAQB 

Wick, turning the 102 

Wicker, chairs of 63 

furniture, cleaning 289 

Wicks, candle 107 

cleaning ISO 

lamp 149 

making 149 

trimming 14S 

Willow, chairs of 63 

furniture, bleaching 2S9 

Wilton carpet 39 

Wind shield, chimney, on the 88 

Windmill, water supply for 112 

Window casings, lubricator for 378 

corners 285 

curtains 45 

materials for 45 

glass, passe partout, for 56 

restoring 286 

varnish for 372 

sashes, lubricating 286 

painting 355 

rattling of, to prevent 286 

supporting 286 

seat, library, for 68 

shades 47 

blowing, preventing 47 

cotton, white, for 47 

hanging _. 47 

renewing '. 47 

substitute tor 47 

sills, painting 355 

Windows, broad, curtains tor 47 

cleaning 284 

corners of, cleaning 285 

polishing 285 

steaming, to prevent 285 

sun, to keep out 285 

yellow soap for 199 

Windsor soap 449 

Wine cask, sweetening a 262 

decanters, cleaning 140 

glass, burnt matches, holder 130 

stains 173 

colored goods, on 173 

linen, removal from 169 

Wing dusters 255 

Wintergreen, chemical soap, in 162 

creams .525 

kisses 537 

Wiping dishes, avoiding 135 

Wire drainer, kitchen sink, for 134 

iron, mantels, for 47 

sash curtains, for 47 

shams, for 47 

lock, for burglar-proof 286 

netting, rat holes, for 318 

picture, use of 66 

Wires, piano, protecting 289 

rust, to prevent, on 299 

Witch-hazel, bruises, for 653 

medicine case, in 648 

Women's garments, dry-cleaning 175 

Wood ashes, hearth, for making a ... 2S6 

bare, advantage of 42 

black varnish for 369 

bleaching, iavelle water for 160 

carved, washing 287 

carving, polishing 382 

cement 349 

for 347 

Chinese cement for 343 

chunks of, kindling 124 

ether varnish for 372 

filler 380 

coloring 380 

fireprooflng 93 

(hard or soft), fuel, as 81 

floors, cleaning 273-275 

reflnishing 273 

frames, cleaning 291 



PAGE 

Wood, French polish, preparing, for.. 379 

furniture, oils for 288 

glue for 342 

hard, kitchen floor 74 

kindling 124-125 

lubricator 378 

marine glue for joining 346 

measure 618 

mucilage tor 3401 

oil gilding on 410 

pipes, water supply tor 112 

spirit, rosin, for dissolving , .. 366 

staining : 369 

■waterprooflng 369 

Woodbine, veranda, for 80 

Wooden bedsteads, brass beds, replaced 

by 34 

iron beds, replaced by 34 

Woodenware 139i 

washing 139 

Woodwork, asbestos, protection of . . . 130 

background, as 36 

enamel painting on 359 

finishing 61 

fireprooflng 361 

moisture for 277 

painting 359 

indoors 35G 

inside 359 

polishing 278 

varnish, transparent, tor 370 

Wool, animal flber 163 

bed covers, for 6? 

blankets 63 

bleaching 183 

fibers of 216 

gasoline, cleaning with 16(1 

shrinking of 163, 216 

steel, waxed floors, for 256 

treatment of 163 

waterproofing 93 

Woolen blanket, mattress top, for .... 64 

cloth, dry-cleaning 177 

pipes, for 263 

clothes, cleaning men's 175 

dress goods, colored, washing 216 

dresses, cleaning lib 

fancy work, washing 217 

goods, beeswax among 3101 

bleaching 183 

Buffalo moths feed on 310 

cautions for 216 

cleaning 176 

darning on 241 

delicate, hanging out 220 

gloss finish, to restore 244 

ironing 230 

nap, raising the 174 

renovating 174 

scouring 176 

soap jelly for 217 

sulphur, to bleach 183 

washing 217 

hose, bleaching 184 

rags, protecting 43 

shawls, washing 217 

shirts, drying 221 

stockings, darning 244 

table covers, washing 127, 217 

underwear, silver, for polishing .... 143 

Woolens 158 

ammonia for 216 

citric acid for 157 

ironing 229-230 

moths in 304 

oxalic acid, application of 166 

quilts, pieces for 65 

silvering 413 

storing 308 

sprinkled, not to be 222 

sudsing 216 



744 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Woolens, tartaric acid lor 158 

washing 216 

Work case, useful, a 239 

room, equipment of 331 

family 332 

order In 332 

utensils for 335 

table 236 

sewing room. In the 236 

Workbasket, sewing room. In 236 

Working Initials » 248 

Worms, berry, hellebore for 331 

current, hellebore for 331 

kerosene emulsion for 329 

turnip, hellebore, for 331 

Wormwood, ants, for exterminating... 319 

Worsteds, light-colored, to clean 177 

Wound, antiseptic wash for 647 

punctured 643 

Wounds, dressing 647 

jagged 648 

poisoned 655 

Wrappers, discarded. Ironing boards, 

for 227 

Wrapping paper 77 

curtains, for stretching 214 

uses of 77 

Wringer, the 201 

laundry, for 201 

Wrinkles, lace, to remove from 230 

ointment for 440 

silk, to remove from 229 

Wrist, bleeding of 654 

fracture of 6SS 

sprains of 653 

Writing desks 68 

quills, for /.... 180 

to prepare for 180 

Wrought Iron 385 

nature of 385 

Yard measure 240 

Yarn, bleaching 184 

Yeast, blacking, liquid, for 424 

Yeasts, dust, in 252 

Yellow, beef gall for brightening 208 

candy, coloring 541 

dyeing 395 

fever, mosquitoes, from 323 

gloves, wash-leather, coloring 178 

greenish or lemon cast of, avoid 36 

hair dye 494 

Ink 430 

leather, dyeing 417 

light, absorbs 36 



PAGE 

Yellow ochre, floors, for staining 274 

paint 362 

ochre in 362 

sealing wax 375 

making 375 

soap, common 196 

use of 199 

hard, gas leaks, for 99 

washing fluid, for 206 

hearth, for blackening 130 

nails, for drawing 336 

scouring mixture, in 162 

soap jelly, for 208 

stains, linen, removal from 168 

tinge, alkali causes 222 

varnish, oxide of lead for 371 

warm tone of, dining room, for dark 36 
tones of, rooms, for north and east 36 

wax, furniture, for 380 

Yellowed cotton, color, restoring 183 

Zinc 388 

alloys of 396 

baking dishes, scraper for 139 

bronzing 401 

chimneys, cleaning with 8S 

cleaning 299 

dust, gray cement, for 351 

kitchen sink, tor 134, 

table, for 75, 134 

melting 384 

for brass 390 

nature of 395 

oil, for purifying 378 

ointment, poison Ivy, for 655 

oxide, nature of 390 

scars, for 443 

paint, with 361 

poisoning from 650 

sheet, ink for 431 

soldering liquid. In malting 39\ 

sink lined with 146 

solder 396 

for 394 

steel, for soldering 386 

sulphate of, waterproofing and black- 
ing m 

wood, fireprooflng 9! 

test for 40E 

tinware, for mending 391 

varnish 37i 

white, painting with 35i 

specifications for painting with ... 35i 

work, regalvanlzlng 40( 

Zincking 40( 



MRS. CURTIS'S 
COOK BOOK 




PUBLISHED BY 

THE SUCCESS 
COMPANY 



NEW YORK 




COPYRIGHT, igog 
The Success Company 



PREFACE 

This book is designed for the use of the home cook, who is inter- 
ested in the best way to do her work, and who strives to set an attrac- 
tive table as well as to practice economy. Although this compilation 
contains a number of recipes for what are termed " fancy dishes," the 
greater part of its teaching deals with the plain food, which is served 
three times a day on the table of an everyday American family. It 
teaches every detail about how to make good bread, how to cook 
vegetables, fish, meat, eggs, cereals, and other wholesome foods in the 
most tempting way possible. It also teaches how to utilize all sorts 
of left-overs — daintily and economically. I believe that every woman 
should know how to cook, whether she is compelled to use that 
knowledge or not. The knowing how is not unlike being able to 
swim: you may spend nearly all your life updn dry land, then sud- 
denly comes a crucial moment when swimming means life or death. 
In the career of nearly every housekeeper there comes at some time a 
crucial moment, when the knowledge of cookery means life or death, 
for a steady course of unwholesome, badly cooked food is certainly 
death. Cookery may seem to the novice at first distasteful and hard 
work, but when one begins to master the principles it is an art that 
grows in interest. To-day instead of looking upon domestic tasks as 
menial labor, the woman of sense and dignity sees in a thorough and 
scientific mastery of such labor a step toward the higher education. 

Isabel Gordon Curtis. 



INTRODUCTION 

When the query was recently put to Isabel Gordon Curtis, " Where 
and how did you learn to cook?" she went back to the days of her 
childhood, which were spent in Scotland. 

" If I was eager for one thing," she confesses, " it was. to get into 
the kitchen on baking days. Baking day in a Scottish kitchen is 
very different from that in America. No yeast-raised bread is made, 
no cakes, cookies, pies, or doughnuts. Twice a week a Scotch 
housewife piles a tray full of crisp oatcakes. They are baked on a 
griddle, then dried on a little hanging shelf in front of a red peat fire. 
There is a batch of puffy scones,^ also griddle-baked, but no sweet 
stuff. The stoves are long ranges built into the wall ; they never fire 
up enough to bake anything that needs more heat than a milk pud- 
ding. Then Scotch women do not know the secret of bread-making, 
for 'loaf-bread,' as it is called, comes from the bakeshops. For me 
there was no fascination of watching bread rise or the mysterious 
process of kneading. Only I loved to roll out my own little oatcakes 
and scones and bake the tiny batch on the edge of the griddle — ^that 
was if the cook was good-natured enough to let me hang around. 
When I read American stories, which told of baking days in a farm- 
house kitchen, and luscious things coming from a brick oven, I longed 
to be in the thick of it, not so much to eat as to cook. 

" I tried* to make American bread — just once. Some Canadian 
cousins visited us and I listened eagerly to their description of baking 
pie, bread, and cake. The housewife of the party was a fine cook, 
and while she described the processes of bread-making I took it all in. 
My mother left with them for a few days of sight-seeing, and in her 
absence I determined to make bread. I took two ^shillings from my 
bank and at the bakeshop bought ten pounds of flour and a cup of 
yeast, ' barm ' as it is called in Scotland. I rose very early next 
morning, and mixed the dough, kneading it till my arms ached; then 
I laid it into round pans. If the rising process had been described I 
missed it. The pans were popped straight into an oven as hot as I 



INTRODUCTION 3 

could make it. The loaves baked and baked and baked, while I 
stood right by the stove keeping it at a roaring heat. They never 
rose as I supposed bread ought to do and my hopes fell. Hours later 
I took the loaves from the oven; they were heavy and dark, with a 
crust you could not have broken with an axe. They looked like 
curling stones more than anything I can think of. The perplexing 
question was where to put them, for I wanted nobody to know of 
my failure. If I had buried them in the garden they might be dug 
up. Our wash house in the yard had a queer little attic which nobody 
entered, because the only entrance it had was a hole opening from 
the wide chimney. I climbed on the rough cobble stones of the wall 
and rolled my loaves into the dimmest recess of the attic. Years 
after, when I had utterly forgotten them, the wash house was de- 
molished by a windstorm and among the debris were found my 
loaves. They were a curiosity to the neighbors, for I never told my 
secret. One old man declared they were meteorites, and his theory 
was looked upon as a possibility. 

"In these days there were no cooking schools in Scotland, though 
in school we studied a text-book on domestic economy, only of what 
use was a text-book without practise? My mother sent me into a 
caterer's kitchen where many girls were taught something of cookery. 
There I learned how to make shortbread, the famous hot mutton pies 
of Scotland, gingerbread, pound cake, sponge cake, and Bath buns. 
We did not make bread; that was a bakery product. I had lessons, 
though, on how to turn out a magnificently upholstered christening or 
wedding cake, which shows what an impracticable course it was. 

" A few years later we sailed for America. From a friendship made 
in this new country, I lookback on the beginning of an ideal and also 
the beginning of a definite ambition. My ideal was one of the most 
gracious, accomplished, and capable women I have ever known. As 
I came to know her well, I realized that a woman may occupy the 
highest social position with charming dignity and lose none of that 
dignity by being a thoroughly capable housewife. She could cook, 
sew, or even do the work in her own kitchen, when necessity de- 
manded it, with a perfection that is seldom found in hired help. 
From this woman I had my first lessons in housewifery; she taught 
me not only how to do work of all sorts as well as it can be done, but 
that it was work every woman ought to know how to do and she 



4 INTRODUCTION 

should be proud of that knowledge. Twenty years later, when a 
dedication was required for the first book I wrote on housekeeping, 
I gave it to the woman who at just the crucial point in my life in- 
stilled a belief that there is no higher accomplishment than to know 
how to live well, yet economically, making a home healthful, attract- 
ive, and happy. 

" Years after, when I drifted into newspaper work and edited the 
woman's department of a farm paper as well as that of a city weekly, 
I found the knowledge I had gained of housewifery no small value. 
Later I married, and that knowledge was put to practical use. I 
began then to make domestic economy a regular study, for each day 
there came a new problem that demanded something more than 
the information in cook books. Experience and experiment prove 
valuable teachers. 

"Ten years ago, I was called to the editorial staff of Good House- 
keeping. That required even more extended study; a course in a 
cooking school and constant reading. No wider experience can be 
gained than in answering the questions that come from housekeepers 
to a home magazine. In learning how to solve problems for other 
people, you absorb a multiplicity of knowledge that cannot be 
achieved in one home. The cookery of America is cosmopolitan, its 
housewifery is conducted after the customs of many nations, and the 
woman who answers questions on a magazine cannot help but learn 
much that is not found in books. Following Good Housekeeping 
came similar work on Collier's Weekly, the Delineator, then on Success 
Magazine. One thing I am learning from it is, that as wide as our 
continent is interest in the betterment of homes, in the moral influence 
of wholesome, well-cooked food, in simpler living, and in household 
economy. It means a steady development of the American woman 
toward the highest ideals of housewifery." 

The Publishers. 



CONTENTS 



I— BEVERAGES 

PAGB 

Coffee — ^Tea — Chocolate — Lemonades — Fruit Punches . . 9- 



II.— BREADS 

Directions for Bread Making — Breads of a Large Variety — 

Small Breads Made from Yeast . . . . 16 

III.— BAKING-POWDER BREADS 

Biscuits — Muffins — Gems — Waffles — Griddle Cakes — Pan- 
cakes — Scones — Sour-milk Breads — A Talk About Baking 
Powder 27 

IV.— STALE BREAD 
Toasts — Brewis — Griddlecakes — Croquettes 40 

v.— SANDWICHES 

How to Make Sandwiches — Sandwiches of Meat — ^Fish — Cheese 

— ^NuT AND Vegetables .44 

VI.— CEREALS AND FLOUR PASTES 
Breakfast Cereals— Rice— Macaroni — Spaghetti . . . 49 

VII.— CEREAL LEFT-OVERS 

Rice Dishes and Breads— Macaroni— How to Utilize Cold 



Dishes 



VIII— EGGS 



55 



Poached — In Sauces — Fried — Soft Boiled — Souffles- Hard 

Boiled — Omelets 60 

5 



6 CONTENTS 

IX.— SOUPS 

PAGE 

Directions for Soup Making — Stocks — Broths — Vegetable 
Soups — Meat Soups — Fish Soups — BomLLONS — Cream Soups 
— Chowders ... 66 

X.— FISH 

How TO Choose Fish — General Directions for Cooking — 

Methods for Cooking Different Fish — Fish Dressings 81 

XI.— FISH LEFT-OVERS 

How to Use Remains of Cold Fish — Soups — Croquettes — Salads 

— How TO Cook Salt Fish . . 89 

XII.— SHELLFISH 

Clams — Oysters — Lobsters — Crabs — Scallops — Shrimps . . 95 

XIII— MEATS 

How to Market — Different Cuts — Best Methods for Cooking 
— ^Economy in Buying Large Cuts — Broiling — Braising — 
Roasting — Steaks — ^Tongue— Tripe — Kidneys — Heart 100 

XIV.— LEFT-OVERS OF BEEF 

Best and Most Economical Ways for Cooking Remains of Beef — 

Hashes — Stews — Deviled Dishes — Sandwiches . Ill 

XV.— LAMB AND MUTTON 

Roasts — Stews — Chops — Boiled — Kidneys — Liver . . . .115 

XVI.— LAMB LEFT-OVERS 
Lamb Left-overs ... .... 119 

XVII.— VEAL 

Roasts — Stews — Cutlets — Heart — Liver — Sweetbreads — 

Kidneys . . .... . . 120 

XVIII.— VEAL LEFT-OVERS 

Veal Left-overs 125 

XIX— PORK 

Roasts^Chops — Ham Sausage 127 



CONTENTS 7 

XX.— PORK AND HAM LEFT-OVERS 

PAGE 

Pork and Ham Left-overs 131 

XXI.— POULTRY 

How TO Choose Poultry— Dressing and Trussing — Braising — 
Roasting — Casseroles — Pie — Turkey — Duck — Poultry 
Dressing . . 133 

XXII —LEFT-OVER CHICKEN AND TURKEY 

Dainty Dishes made from Cold Fowl. . ... 137 

XXIII.— MEAT OR FISH SAUCES 
Meat or Fish Sauces ... . 139 

XXIV— VEGETABLES 

Classified Vegetables — ^The Value of Vegetables in Our Diet 
— Marketing— The Best Methods for Cooking— Lentils — 
RooTS^BuLBS — Fruit Vegetables — Greens .... 142 

XXV.— LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES 

Soups-t-Hashes — Soups — Souffles — Curries — Scallops . . . 156 

XXVI— POTATOES 

Boiled — Baked — ^Fried — Sweet Potatoes ... . 160 

XXVII— LEFT-OVER POTATOES 

To Reheat Potatoes — Fried — Creamed — Hashed — Curried — 

Sweet Potatoes — Croquettes 163 

XXVIIL— SALADS 

How to Make a Salad — Oil Mayonnaise— Boiled Dressings — 
French Dressings — Flavored Dressings — Salads of Vege- 
tables — Meat— Fish— Poultry— Potato— Fruit . .166 

XXIX.— PUDDINGS 

Puddings Made of Stale Bread and Cake — Apple Puddings — 

Puddings Made from Gelatin — Fruit — ^Tapioca . 176 



8 CONTENTS 

XXX.— PUDDING SAUCES 

PAGE 

Hot and Cold Sauces . 188 

XXXI.— FROZEN DESSERTS 

Directions for Freezing — Water Ices — Sherbets — Fhappes — • 
PmsTCHES — Frozen Fruits — Ice Creams — Mousses — Par- 
FAiTB and Fruit Puddings — Sauces for Ice Cream — Glaces . 191 

XXXII.— PUFF PASTE 

How TO Make Puff Paste — Puff Paste Dainties — Plain Pastry 

FOR Pies — Pies of Every Variety — Mincemeat . 207 

XXXIII— COOKIES, CAKES AND DOUGHNUTS 

Small Cakes of Every Sort — Cakes Made from Sour Milk 214 

XXXIV.— HOW TO MAKE AND BAKE CAKE 

How TO Make 4nd Bake Cake — A Kitchen Table of Recipes — 
Butter Cakes — Sponge Cakes — Fruit Cakes^Spice Cakes — 
Nut Cakes — Cakes Raised by Yeast . . . .221 

XXXV.— CAKE FILLINGS AND ICINGS 

Cake Fillings and Icings 234 

XXXVI.— FIRELESS COOKERY 

The Advantages of a Fireless Cooker — How to Use It — En- 
dorsement BY Mrs. S. T. Rorer — Time Table for Cooking 
Various Foods — ^Recipes for Cooking Various Dishes 237 

XXXVII.— FAVORITE DISHES IN FAMOUS HOMES 

Recipes from Mrs. Taft, Mrs. Sherman, the Wives of United 

States Senators and the Governors from Various States 244 

XXXVni— SOME KITCHEN KINKS 

Kitchen Kinks 252 

INDEX 259 



CHAPTER I 



BEVERAGES 



When we speak of beverages, it 
includes such daily drinks as tea, 
coffee, and cocoa, also the delicious 
fruit punches, which are easy to 
make and, in hot weather, as cooling 
to the blood as they are palatable. 
In preparing all hot beverages, fresh- 
ly boiled water is a necessity, for 
after water has boiled five minutes it 




loses a sort of sparkle that makes all 
the difference between a poor cup of 
tea and one that is stimulating and 
fragrant. As to coffee, there are va- 
rious methods of making it, but in 
boiled coffee, which is the common, 
everyday way of making it, we have 
probably the quickest and most 
economical method. To have coffee 
at its best, the water and coffee 
should be carefully measured, care- 
fully watched and timed in the cook- 
ing, and the coffeepot kept scrupu- 
lously clean. Don't buy poor, cheap 
tea and coffee; it is simply impossi- 



ble to make them fit to drink; better 
a small quantity of decent quality. 

The majority of fruit punches, as 
a rule, have one base — a sirup of 
equal quantities of water and sug- 
ar. This is a much better way to 
prepare such drinks than by melting 
sugar, which can only be half dis- 
solved in cold water. After the 
sirup for such a beverage is pre- 
pared, its flavoring is limited only 
by the variety of fruit on hand. The 
ever-handy lemon gives it necessary 
tartness, and to add to the delicious- 
ness anything may be added, even a 
left-over of sirup from canned fruit 
or a cup of cold tea. 

French Coffee. 

1 cupful finely ground coffee, 
6 cupfuls boiling water. 

There are a number of pots on the 
market for making French coffee; 
any of them are suitable, provided 
they contain a fine strainer, which 
holds the coffee and prevents the 
grounds from getting into the infu- 
sion. To make coffee in this fashion, 
put the coffee into the strainer, 
which is generally set into the mouth 
of the pot; place the pot on the stove 
and slowly pour the water over the 
grounds, allowing it to filter through. 
If you wish to have the coffee 
stronger, pour out the infusion and 
pour it a second time over the 
grounds, but do not allow it to cool. 

Boiled Coffee. 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls ground 

coffee, 
1 quart freshly boiling water, 
i white of egg. 



10 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Mix the white of egg with 3 table- 
spoonfuls cold water, beating with a 
fork; add the coffee and stir tUl wet. 
Scald coffeepot, put in prepared cof- 
fee, pour in boiling water, cover the 
spout, and boil five minutes. Pour 
in quickly j cupful cold water; 
stand three minutes to settle. Strain 
into a hot pot or have strainer on 
table. 

Tea. 

Water for tea should be used when 
it has just reached the boiling point. 
Teas are of differing strengths, but a 
safe rule is 1 teaspoonful dry tea to 
J pint boiling water. Scald the pot, 
put in dry tea, and cover one min- 
ute. Add boiling water and cover 
closely. Let stand three to six min- 
utes and strain off into another hot 
pot. A wadded cozy keeps the tea 
hot for a long time. 

Cocoa. 

In a tablespoonful of boiling wa- 
ter dissolve a small teaspoonful of 
Runkel's cocoa powder, then add a, 
cupful of boiling milk, and boil to- 
gether for five minutes, stirring con- 
tinually. When served, sweeten to 
taste. This is for one cup; for 
larger quantities, follow the same 
proportions. Use only earthen or 
porcelain vessels, as tin spoils the 
flavor of cocoa. 

Afternoon Chocolate. 

1 quart milk, 

3 squares Runkel's chocolate, 
3 tablespoonfuls boiling water, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Put the chocolate in a double boil- 
er. When it melts, add the sugar 
and stir thoroughly till both are 
dissolved. Add the boiling water 
and beat it smooth, then pour over 
it the scalded milk. With an egg 
beater, whip the beverage till it 
foams, keeping it over the fire. Serve 
from a chocolate pot, sweetening to 
taste and putting into each cupful a 
tablespoonful of whipped cream. If 
you desire the chocolate delicately 
thickened, add J tablespoonful corn- 



starch dissolved in cold milk during 
the cooking process. 

Fiazza Punch. 

Juice 2 lemons. 
Juice 1 orange, 

1 cupful sugar, 

2 cupfuls grape juice, 
2 cupfuls water. 

Mix together the juice of the 
lemons and orange, add sugar, grape 
juice, and water. Place a small 
cake of ice in the bottom of a punch 
bowl or in a tall glass pitcher and 
pour in the liquid. 

Lime Punch. 

i cupful lime juice, 
2J cupfuls sugar sirup, 

2 cupfuls pineapple juice, 
f cupful orange. 

Mix together the lime juice and 
sirup; then add the pineapple juice 
and orange. When ready to serve, 
put in glasses half filled with 
crushed ice and add a few Mara- 
schino cherries. 

Pineapple Punch. 

1 cupful grated pineapple, 

3 cupfuls water, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

i cupful fresh-made tea. 
Juice 3 oranges. 
Juice 3 lemons, 

1 cupful grape juice, 
2i quarts water. 

Put the pineapple and 2 cupfuls 
water to boil for fifteen minutes. 
Strain through cheese cloth, pressing 
out all the juice. Add 1 pint of 
water to the sugar, which has been 
boiled ten minutes, then add the tea, 
juice of the oranges and lemons, 
grape juice, and the balance of the 
water. Put in a punch bowl with a 
large lump of ice. Serve perfectly 
chilled in sherbet glasses. 

Pruit Punch. 

Juice 6 lemons, 

2 cupfuls water, 
1 poimd sugar. 
Chopped rind 1 lemon, 



BEVERAGES 



11 



3 bananas, 

1 grated pineapple, 

i bottle Maraschino cherries and 
their liquor, 

2 quarts ApolUnaris. 

Put the water, sugar, and rind of 
lemon on to boil; boil five minutes, 
strain, and while hot slice into it 
the bananas, pineapple, cherries and 
their liquor. When ready to serve, 
put in the center of punch bowl a 
square block of ice; pour over it the 
ApolUnaris; add to the fruit the 
juice of the lemons and put It all 
into the bowl. 

Mulled Cider. 

1 quart cider, 

1 teaspoonful whole allspice, 

i teaspoonful cassia buds, 

3 eggs. 

Put the cider with the spices in it 
in a saucepan and boil three minutes. 
Pour it carefully over the eggs, which 
habe been beaten thoroughly, and 
serve hot. 

Raspberry and Currant Fanch. 

A pleasant drink is made of rasp- 
berries and currants — a pint of the 
former to a quart of the latter. 
Bruise the fruit in a preserving ket- 
tle with a potato masher and pour 
over it 3 quarts cold water. Put the 
kettle over a moderate fire, where it 
will heat gradually. After it begins 
to boil, remove the kettle from the 
fire; pour the contents into a jelly 
bag and let it drain through the bag 
into a large bowl. When it is clear 
and cool, ice and sweeten it and 
serve in little glasses. 

Tea Punch. 

1 quart boiling water, 

4 tablespoonfuls tea, 

1 cupful granulated sugar. 
Juice 4 lemons, . 
i pint ApolUnaris. 

Pour the boiling water over the 
tea; cover and leave for five minutes; 
strain off and cool. Half fill the 
punch bowl with cracked ice, add 



the sugar and strained juice of the 
lemons. Pour the tea over these, and, 
as it goes to table, add the Apol- 
Unaris. Strew a handful of mint 
sprays on the surface and serve at 
once. 

Cocoa Nibs or " Shells." 

Wet 2 ounces cocoa shells with a 
little cold water and stir into them 
a quart of boiling water. Boil stead- 
ily for an hour and a half; strain, 
stir in a quart of fresh milk, bring 
almost to the scalding point, and 
serve. Sweeten in the cups. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

Mash the berries and, when re- 
duced to a pulp, add enough vine- 
gar to cover them. Set close by the 
stove for twelve hours, stirring of- 
ten. Strain and press; add as many 
raspberries (mashed) to the vinegar 
as before; cover and leave in the 
hot sun for six hours. Now strain, 
and measure the juice; add half as 
much water as you have juice, and 
stir into this S pounds granulated sug- 
ar for every 3 pints of Uquid. Bring 
slowly to a boil, let it boil up once, 
and strain. Bottle, cork, and seal. — 
Makion Harland. 

Ginger Beer. 

6 ounces bruised ginger, 

6 quarts water, 

S pounds loaf sugar, 

1 gill lemon juice, 

1 pound honey, 

17 quarts cold water, 

1 egg, 

2 teaspoonfuls essence lemon. 

Boil the ginger and water for half 
an hour; then add the sugar, lemon 
juice, honey, the balance of the wa- 
ter, and strain through a cloth. 
When cold, put in the egg and es- 
sence of lemon. After standing 
three or four days it may be bottled. 

Qinger Fop. 

2 gallons lukewarm water, 
2 pounds white sugar, 
2 lemons. 



12 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



1 tablespoonful cream of tartar, 

1 cupful yeast, 

2 ounces white ginger root, 
bruised and boiled. 

Pour this mixture into a stone jar 
and stand in a warm place for twen- 
ty-four hours; then bottle. The next 
day it will be ready to " pop." — 
Marion Haklaxd. 

Cream Soda. 

1 pound loaf sugar, 

3 cupfuls rich cream, 
1 quart water, 

1 tablespoonful Mcllhenny's Mex- 
ican vanilla, 

i ounce tartaric acid. 

Mix the ingredients and bring 
slowly to a boil; then put in jars. 
Use a tablespoonful of this and a 
third of a teaspoonful of soda to a 
glass of iced water. 

Portable Lemonade. 

Rasp the rind of a large and not 
too-ripe lemon on J pound loaf sug- 
ar, reduce it to powder, and mix 
with the strained juice of the fruit. 
Stir well together, and when thor- 
oughly mixed, press tightly into a 
small jar, cork, and tie over with 
waxed paper. When required for 
use, dissolve a tablespoonful of the 
paste in a glass of water with a 
lump of ice. This paste will keep 
good for months. If too sweet, a 
slight amount of citric acid will give 
it the necessary sharpness. 

Egg^ Lemonade. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

3 cupfuls water. 
Grated rind 1 lemon. 
Juice 3 lemons, 

1 egg, 

1 bottle effervescent water. 
Boil together the sugar and water 
for ten minutes; add the grated rind 
and juice of the lemons. Allow this 
to cool, and at time of serving add 
the egg, beaten until very light and 
creamy, and the effervescent water, 
poured from some height in order 



that the mixture may foam, 
with cracked ice in glasses. 



Serve 



Chocolate Cream Nectar. 

4 tablespoonfuls hot coffee, 

2 squares Runkel's chocolate, 
li cupfuls sugar, 

3 cupfuls water, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can vanilla. 
Whipped cream. 

Melt the chocolate in the hot cof- 
fee; add the sugar and water; boil 
clear and strain. There should be 
1 quart of the liquid. When cold, 
add the vanlUa, then pour it into 
glasses in which you have placed 1 
tablespoonful whipped cream and a 
little shaved ice. Stir before drink- 
ing. This is good hot, if a portion 
of milk is added to the chocolate 
sirup, and the whipped cream placed 
on top. 

Iced Coffee with Orange Plavor. 

1 quart strong coffee, 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

Boil the ingredients ten minutes. 
Allow this to cool and add to each 
cup or glass 1 tablespoonful orange 
sirup and the same amount of cream 
partially whipped. The orange sirup 
may be obtained at a drug store or 
made by allowing cut oranges to 
stand in sugar and straining off the 
juice. 

Black-Currant Cup. 

To 1 quart weak green tea add J 
pint black-currant juice; sweeten to 
taste and chill thoroughly before 
serving. 

Ching Chlng. 

Fill a glass two thirds full of 
shaved ice; add 3 or 4 lumps of sug- 
ar, the juice of a large orange, and 
a few drops of essence of cloves or 
peppermint. 

Fruit Cup. 

Juice J lemon, 

1 teaspoonful lime juice. 



BEVERAGES 



1 teaspoonful pineapple juice, 

4 ounces sugar, 

3 ounces shaved ice. 

Fill up the glass with rich milk, 
shake until foamy, and drink at 
once. 



Pineapple Lemonade. 
1 pineapple. 
Juice 4 lemons, 
1 pound sugar, 
1 pint water. 

Pare, eye, and grate the pineapple; 
add the .strained juice of the lemons 
arid a sirup made by boiling together 
for four minutes the sugar and 
water. When cold, add 1 quart 
water; strain and ice. 

rruit Beverage. 
12 lemons, 
3J pounds sugar, 
1 quart ripe raspberries, 
1 pineapple. 

Peel the lemons very thin; squeeze 
the juice over the peel and let stand 
two hours; then add 1 pound sugar; 
mash the raspberries with i pound 
sugar, strain the lemon juice and 
mash the raspberries through a 
coarse sieve, then the pineapple, and 
mix all together, adding 3 quarts 
cold water. Stir until the sugar is 
dissolved; strain, and serve with a 
little of the fruit in each glass. 

Picnic Lemonade. 

1 quart water, 

2 figs. 

Peel and juice of 2 lemons, 
1 tablespoonful honey. 

Put the water into a stewpan to 
boil; add the figs cut in two; let the 
water and figs boil a quarter of an 
hour; add the lemon peel cut in thin 
slices; boil ten minutes longer; pour 
into a jug; cover closely with paper 
until cold; pass through a sieve and 
add the honey and lemon juice. Sug- 
ar can be used in place of honey. 



Russian Tea. 

4 teaspoon fuls tea, 
1 quart boiling water, 
1 teaspoonful sugar, 
i slice lemon, 
1 Maraschino cherry. 

Pour the boiling water over the 
tea, and allow it to stand for five 
minutes. Into each cup put the 
lemon, cherry, and sugar, and pour 
the tea over them. 

Raspberry Shrub. 

For every cupful raspberry juice 
take i cupful white-wine vinegar and 
3 cupfuls sugar. Put the fruit juice, 
sugar, and vinegar over the fire, stir 
until the sugar dissolves and boil to 
a thick sirup; strain and bottle. All 
fruit juices are used in the same 
manner. When served, allow J cup- 
ful sirup to i cupful ice water. 

Elderblossom Wine. 

1 quart elderberry blossoms, 

9 pounds sugar, « 

1 yeast cake, 

3 gallons water, 

3 pounds raisins, 

i cupful lemon juice. 

The blossoms should be picked 
carefully from the stems and the 
quart measure packed full. Put the 
sugar and water together over the 
fire, stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
then let it boil without stirring. Boil 
five minutes, skim, and add the blos- 
soms. As soon as the blossoms are 
stirred in, take from the fire and 
cool. When lukewarm, add the dis- 
solved yeast and lemon juice. Put in 
an earthen jar for six days, stirring 
thoroughly three times daily. The 
blossoms must be stirred from the 
bottom of tlie jar each time. On the 
seventh day strain through a cloth 
and add the raisins, seeded. Put in 
glass preserve jars and cover tightly. 
Do not bottle until January. 

Hint Fizzle. 

Cut the rind of 1 lemon thin, then 
into small strips. Squeeze juice of J 
lemon in each glass; add 1 teaspoon- 



14 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



ful sugar; stir until dissolved; fill 
half up with shaved ice; pour in half 
ginger pop and half grape juice; 
place 3 sprigs of mint and 3 pieces 
of peel in each glass and serve with 
straws. 

Red-Currant Punch. 

Boil for five minutes 1 cupful sugar 
and 3 quarts water. Remove from 
the fire, and, while the sirup is still 
hot, dissolve in it 1 pint red-currant 
jelly. Add 3 lemons and 3 oranges, 
sliced thin. Set on ice until chilled 
and serve in glasses partly filled with 
crushed ice. 

Tutti-Frutti Punch. 
2 quarts water, 

1 pound sugar. 
Grated rind 2 lemons, 
Grated rind 4 oranges, 

Juice from the lemons and 

oranges, 
24 Malaga grapes, 

2 slices tangerine oranges, 
4 slices pineapple, 

1 banana, 

1 pint Maraschino cherries. 

The special characteristic of the 
above recipe is found in the Mara- 
schino cherries, which give a pecul- 
iar zest to the punch. Boil five min- 
utes 1 quart of the water and sugar; 
add the grated rinds of the lemons 
and oranges and continue boiling for 
ten minutes ^longer. Strain the sirup 
through cheese cloth and add 1 quart 
cold water. Extract the juice from 
the lemons and oranges, strain, and 
mix with the grapes, cut in half and 
seeded, oranges, pineapple, sliced 
banana, and the Maraschino cherries 
with their liquor, the cherries being 
halved. Serve from a punch bowl in 
which a cube of ice has been placed. 

Sparkling Iiemonade. 
36 lemons, 

3 pounds granulated sugar, 
6 oranges, 

1 pineapple, 

1 box strawberries, 

4 quarts carbonic water. 



Squeeze the juice from the lemons 
and remove the pips. Put it into 
the punch bowl with the sugar and 
stir until dissolved. Slice the oranges, 
shred the pineapple, hull and 
wash the berries; then add them all 
to the lemon juice. Put a large 
cube of ice in the punch bowl. Just 
before serving, add the carbonic wa- 
ter, which has previously been 
chilled. 

Cider Eggnog. 

To each quart of cider allow 4 eggs. 
Beat the yolks until they assume the 
consistency of cream. Beat the whites 
to a stiif froth. Stir together the 
cider and beaten yolks and sweeten 
to taste. Stir in half the beaten 
whites and season slightly with 
grated nutmeg. Stand on ice until 
cold. Serve in punch glasses with a 
teaspoonful of the meringue on top 
of each glass. 

Mint Ale. 

Juice B lemons, 
IJ cupfuls sugar, 
i dozen stalks and leaves of 
bruised mint, 

3 bottles ginger ale. 
Mix the lemons and sugar to- 
gether; when melted, place in a 
punch bowl with the bruised mint, 
and when the bowl has been half 
filled with cracked ice, add the gin- 
ger ale. 

Chocolate Sirup. 

To use in emergency for making 
cool drinks. 

3 ounces Runkel's chocolate, 
3 cupfuls boiling water, 
3 pounds sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls Mcllhenny's 
Mexican vanilla. 

Put the chocolate in a double boil- 
er and let it melt gradually, stirring 
occasionally. Add the sugar and 
water. When thoroughly dissolved, 
strain and add the vanilla. Bottle 
and keep in a cool place until want- 
ed. A tablespoonful added to a 



BEVERAGES 



U 



glass of iced water or charged water 
makes a delicious cool drink in a mo- 
ment or two. Or pour a few spoon- 
fuls of it in a cocktail glass over 
shaved ice and cover with sweetened 
whipped cream for an afternoon-tea 
delicacy. With boiling water and 
whipped cream it makes a cupful of 
hot chocolate without a moment's 
delay. 

Old Colonial Mint Cup. 

1 bunch fresh mint, 

6 oranges, 

S lemons, 

i ounce pulverized gum arable, 

4 cupful cold water, 

1 cupful sugar. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

Steep mint in sufficient hot water 
to extract the flavor, adding the 
juice of the oranges and lemons. 
Dissolve over hot water the gum 
arabic, soaked in cold water for 
twenty minutes, add the sugar and 
cook until it spins a thread; pour 
this boiling hot upon the stiffly beat- 
en whites of eggs, beating until cold 
and smooth. Stir in the strained 
mint flavoring and fruit juice. Di- 



lute to the required strength with 
carbonated water and serve in tum- 
blers containing finely cracked ice, 
garnishing each portion with lemon 
peel and sprigs of mint. 

lemonade. 

S cupfuls sugar, 

1 quart water, 

§ cupful lemon juice. 

Boil the sugar and water fifteen 
minutes, then add the fruit juice. 
Cool and, if too strong, add a piece 
of ice to dilute it. 



Ginger Punch. 

3 cupfuls sugar, 

2 quarts water, 

1 pound Canton ginger, 

1 cupful orange juice, 

1 cupful lemon juice. 

Pour the water over the sugar and 
add the ginger, which has been cut 
coarsely in a meat chopper. Boil for 
twenty minutes, add the fruit juice, 
and strain. Allow it to cool, then 
pour over a piece of ice in a punch 
bowl. 



CHAPTER II 



BREAD 



First in every household is de- 
manded good bread. Not hit-and- 
miss bread — fair at one baking, poor 
at another — but a sweet, wholesome, 
nutty-flavored loaf, beautiful chest- 
nut brown all over, and so perfectly 
baked as to be palatable when ten 
days old. 

The very best flour is the cheapest; 
it makes the finest bread, it contains 
the largest amount of nutrition, and 
it produces twice the quantity of 
wholesome bread that cheap flour 
does. In nearly every pantry you 
find two brands of flour; usually we 
call them bread flour and pastry 
flour. It is possible to make fair 
pastry and good cake from bread 
flour, but it is hard to make good 
bread from pastry flour. You can 
apply three tests to flour to discover 
whether it will make good bread; 
first, it should be of a creamy color; 
second, it will cake slightly when 
gathered up into the hand, falling 
apart in a gritty sort of way when 
the fingers are released; third, its 
wetting capacity is very different 
from poor flour, one quart of first- 
class bread flour absorbing about 
one and a half cupfuls of water. Be- 
fore purchasing a barrel, or even a 
half-barrel, of flour, buy a bagful, try 
one sort after another, use the same 
yeast, and the same care with the 
mixing, raising, and baking. Pres- 
ently you will discover with what 
flour you have the best success; then 
stick to that brand. As for yeast; 
none is better than compressed 
yeast, which can be found fresh 
every day even in the smallest vil- 
lage. If it has been kept too long, 
it will begin to show dark streaks. 



have a strong odor, and it will not 
break clean. Let us stop for a min- 
ute to study the properties of yeast 
and its action when mixed with flour 
and liquid, then it will be much 
easier to understand what is happen- 
ing during the process of bread mak- 
ing. If you could look at a drop of 
yeast under a microscope, you would 
see a mass of tiny, rounded cells. 
You can imagine how tiny they are 
when I tell you there are fifty billion 
cells in a two-cent yeast cake. 

Each cell is a minute sac filled 
with watery matter, and while you 
watch, you may see new cells bud- 
ding out of the old ones. Yeast is 
the same fungus which finds its way 
into cans of fruit that have not been 
hermetically sealed, and into maple 
sirup or any sweet liquid which is 
not properly protected from the air. 
Then, given a warm temperature 
and sugar for the creation of oxygen, 
it begins to work, as every housewife 
knows to her sorrow. The same 
working process is what we invite 
when we set bread with yeast. It will 
not begin its work until it has been 
given sugar, heat, and moisture. It 
thrives best at 78° ; you can make 
it work more quickly by raising the 
temperature, but when it reaches 
130° it is blighted, just as a plant 
dies in an overheated room. Now 
you know what happens when you 
set your bread near a hot stove or 
register — the " yeast has been killed." 
It is almost impossible, however, to 
kill yeast with cold. I have thawed 
it very gradually more than once and 
made excellent bread from it. You 
know how slowly bread rises after 
it has been chilled by a cold night. 



16 



BREAD 



17 



Still it will rise, for the growth of the 
yeast was simply brought to a stand- 
still. 

In chemistry a name which means 
sugar fungus has been given to yeast. 
It needs, you remember, air as well 
as moisture to make it grow, and 
when sugar is at hand, it will supply 
itself with some of the oxygen con- 
tained in it. Oxygen is what is 
required to raise every dough or 
batter; so frequently bread recipes 
call for a tablespoonful of sugar. 
Sugar is not a necessity, however, be- 
cause yeast changes the starch in 
flour into sugar. It is needed only 
when the yeast is none too lively and 
requires a bit of help. Immediately 
when yeast goes into batter, which is 
the first step in bread making, a 
chemical change, which we call fer- 
mentation, begins to take place. We 
help the yeast to begin work by hard 
beating of the batter, then by knead- 
ing the dough, for both of these proc- 
esses tend not only to mix the in- 
gredients thoroughly, but also to 
inclose air ; the longer the beating and 
kneading the more air is inclosed, and 
the spongier becomes your bread. 

The first step in bread making, as 
in cookery, is to get together every- 
thing necessary in utensils and ma- 
terials. The utensils we need -are a 
bread pan with a close-fitting, ven- 
tilated cover, a measuring cup, a 
wire spoon for beating the batter, a 
slitted wooden spoon to stir with, 
and a molding cloth. The molding 
cloth is a square yard of heavy duck 
or sail cloth; it is much superior to 
the smooth surface of a wooden 
molding board, because considerable 
flour can be sifted into the rough 
surface of the fabric. It holds the 
flour and there is no sticking of soft 
dough. As the flour works into the 
dough, sift in more, rubbing it into 
the cloth with your hand. When you 
have finished work, shake it, fold the 
cloth, and lay it away until needed 
again. It can be used a number of 
times before being washed; when it 
has to go to the laundry, soak it for 
an hour in cold water, and rinse sev- 



eral times before putting in the 
suds; hot water would turn the flour 
into dough; then it would be no easy 
task to get it clean. 

Sift into a pan four or five quarts 
of flour, and set it either over the 
register or in a moderate oven to 
warm, unless you are working in 
midsummer. Cold flour will always 
retard the raising of bread. Scald 
one pint of milk and pour it into the 
bread pan over two teaspoonfuls of 
salt. Add a pint of cold water, then 
one yeast cake dissolved in half a 
cupful of lukewarm water. To this 
liquid add seven or eight cupfuls of 
warm flour, and beat the batter thor- 
oughly with a wire spoon. Do not 
stop beating until the batter is a 
mass of bubbles. Then take the slit- 
ted spoon and begin adding more 
flour till you have a soft dough. 
When it becomes too stiff to stir, 
dust plenty of flour into the molding 
cloth, rubbing it into the fabric till 
it will hold no more. Gather the 
dough into a ball and drop it on the 
cloth. Now begin to knead, folding 
the edge of the dough farthest from 
you toward the center, pressing it 
away with the palms, gently yet 
quickly. The process of kneading has 
more to do with good bread than 
almost anything else. In a cooking 
school I have seen pieces of the same 
dough, raised in the same tempera- 
ture, baked in the same oven, yield 
two entirely different qualities of 
bread. One loaf was molded by an 
energetic, strong-muscled girl whose 
kneading was so strenuous that all the 
life had been banged out of it. The 
other loaf was kneaded by a girl 
whose every movement was grace; 
she used her hands deftly, lightly, 
and briskly. Her bread was as fine 
as bread could be made, a spongy, 
delicious, well-shaped loaf. So re- 
member that it is not brute force 
that tells in kneading; it is steady, 
light, springy, dexterous movements, 
which distribute the yeast plant 
evenly through the dough and inclose 
all the air it is possible to get. As 
you work you can see how the air is 



18 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



doing its duty, for the dough be- 
comes full of little bubbles and blis- 
ters. When it is smooth as satin, 
elastic, does not stick, and is so 
spongy that it rises quickly after 
denting it with your finger, it is 
ready to set to rise. Wash the bread 
pan and grease it well, even inside 
the lid; this makes the dough slip 
out clean after the next raising. Put 
on the cover and set the pan in a 
warm place. When it has doubled in 
bulk, drop it again on the floured 
molding cloth, and shape into loaves. 

As soon as the dough has doubled 
in bulk, turn it out on a slightly 
floured molding cloth and knead into 
loaves. This second kneading is a 
slight one, only enough to prepare it 
for the pans and get rid of any large 
air bubbles which, if left in, would 
mean holes in the bread. Have the 
pans greased, using a butter brush 
which penetrates to every corner. 
Always make smaU loaves; generally 
the right size can be guessed at by 
having each pan half full of dough. 
I like bread baked in the French or 
round bread pans. The crust of it is 
exceedingly good, the loaf cuts into 
neat slices, not a bit of the bread be- 
ing wasted, and it bakes to a nicety 
without any danger of burning. In 
rectangular pans the dough in the 
corner does not have room to fully 
expand. When large brick-shaped 
loaves are made, it is almost impossi- 
ble to bake them to the heart unless 
the crust gets very thick and hard. If 
heat does not penetrate to the center 
of a loaf, yeast may remain alive, and 
when it ferments in the stomach 
there is good cause for serious in- 
digestion. 

After the bread is in the pans we 
have to find a place for it to rise. 
In the summer I set it in the win- 
dow, which, of course, is closed, for 
a draught on rising bread hurts it. 
During the winter the bread goes on 
a shelf close to the kitchen chimney, 
behind the stove. The shelf is cov- 
ered with white oilcloth and just 
wide enough for four pans. When 
set to rise, the loaves are covered 



with cloths made from old table 
linen. These pre kept laundered and 
never used except on baking days. 
A question I am often asked is: 
" How do you know when bread is 
raised enough to be put in the 
oven ? " This is one of the most im- 
portant points about bread making. 
I might tell you to let it rise for an 
hour, only time depends so nruch 
upon temperature. I might suggest 
that it be allowed to become doubled 
in bulk, but even that is not a sure 
test. The only one I ever use is to 
keep " hefting " it, as a New Eng- 
land cook would say. The loaf will 
keep on for an hour or so being of 
quite good weight, then' all of a sud- 
den it feels light. Pop it in a hot 
oven. Strange as it may seem, a row 
of pans filled with bread at the same 
time, which have stood in the same 
temperature, will seldom "heft" 
light at the same minute. I have 
seen half an hour of difference be- 
tween the time three or four pans 
were ready to go in the oven. 

Nearly every cookbook gives a dif- 
ferent test for the proper heat of the 
oven. It ought to register 360°, but 
as few cooks usie a thermometer, you 
may go by this test: Sprinkle a tea- 
spoonful of flour on the oven bot- 
tom, and if it browns in five minutes 
the oven is just right for the bread. 
If it grows chestnut brown in that 
time, cool the oven or your bread will 
crust too quickly. When the loaves 
are in, watch them; if you see one 
throwing up an awkward ridge or 
hump anywhere, you may know that 
corner of the oven is too hot and the 
bread is rising faster than it ought 
to do. Do not let one loaf touch 
another; the dough will run together 
if they do. Then when they are 
pulled apart, there is not only an 
unsightly loaf, but a heavy streak in 
the bread. If the oven is just right, 
it will begin to brown in fifteen min- 
utes; it will not rise farther. Then 
cool the oven slightly; if you are us- 
ing a gas stove, turn out one of the 
burners, and let the baking go on 
moderately till the bread has been in 



BREAD 



19i 



for an hour. Tabe out the well- 
browned loaves, turn them Imme- 
diately out of the pans, brush over 
the crust with a buttered brush, and 
set them to cool on a wire stand. If 
loaves are set flat, the bottom will 
become moist; if they are wrapped 
in a cloth,, there is a soft, steamy 
crust. In summer if the steam is not 
allowed to evaporate from bread, 
there is danger of it molding, so it 
must never be put away until per- 
fectly cool. The best place to store 
it is in a small, shelved closet of ja- 
panned ware, with a door that closes 
tight. This is a better and handier 
receptacle than the wooden tub or 
stone jar used in some households. 
Never keep bread in a cellar; it is a 
horribly unwholesome custom. 



Little Notes About Bread Making 

Some cooks prefer to set a sponge 
when making bread, allowing it to 
rise in the shape of a well-beaten 
batter before adding flour enough to 
do the kneading. " Sponging " makes 
a fine-grained bread, but it lengthens 
the time required for making, as two 
risings are needed after the sponge 
is light. 

Bread may be made from water 
alone instead of " half and half," as 
milk and water bread is called. 
Water bread is tougher and sweeter 
and keeps better than that made 
from all milk. 

A good test of whether bread has 
been kneaded enough is to leave it 
on the board or molding cloth for a 
few minutes. When you take it up 
again, if it does not stick it is ready 
to put in the bread pan. 

If you want to make bread in a 
hurry, simply double the amount of 
yeast, that is, if you are using com- 
pressed yeast. It gives no yeasty 
flavor, although brewers' and home- 
made yeast do leave a slight taste 
when more than the prescribed quan- 
tity is used. Should the oven be too 
hot, set a pan of cold water in it for 
a, iew minutes. 



Don't use potatoes or potato water 
in bread. The liquid in which pota- 
toes have been boiled contains a poi- 
sonous alkaloid and it tends to dark- 
en the bread as well as giving it a 




Cake on a Wire Cooler. 

peculiar flavor. Years ago, before 
milling had been brought to perfec- 
tion, there might have been reason 
for adding mashed potatoes to 
bread; now, with our fine flour, there 
is no necessity for it. 

The best way to care for a bread 
box is to wash it in hot water, then 
close it, and dry it on the cool end 
of a stove. This ought to be done 
between each baking to keep it fresh 
and sweet. 

Milk bread browns more quickly 
than water bread; so do not imag- 
ine because your loaf is a nice 
chestnut brown that it is baked. 
Give it time enough, which is from 
fifty to sixty minutes for brick loaves 
four inches thick. 

If you are detained from getting 
bread into the pans when it has risen 
sufficiently, take a knife and cut 
down the dough till you are ready to 
attend to it. This allows the gas to 
escape and there is no danger of 
souring if you cannot return to it for 
half an hour. 

It is best to have your fire in such 
condition that it will need no replen- 
ishing while bread baking is in prog- 
ress. 

Yeast may be kept perfectly fresh 
for at least a week or ten days by 
immersing the cake in cold water. 
The particles of yeast settle at the 
bottom and water acts as a seal 
from the air. Cover the glass in 
which yeast is dissolved and keep it 



20 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



in a cellar or refrigerator. Occa- 
sionally pour off the water that cov- 
ers it and add fresh water. 

If you do not own a covered bread 
pan, raise the dough in a large, clean 
bowl or basin, only keep it welt cov- 
ered with a towel. A paper tightly 
tied down is better still, for it pre- 
vents air from entering. 

When a. recipe calls for one com- 
pressed yeast cake and nothing can 
be obtained but liquid yeast, use one 
cupful of it instead. 

If you don't have a wire stand for 
cooling bread, simply turn up a cou- 
ple of bread tins and stand the 
loaves against their edges. The idea 
is to let the steam escape, so that 
your bread will neither be heavy nor 
moist. 

If you want to hurry bread slight- 
ly, add one tablespoonful of sugar to 
four quarts of flour. The yeast plant 
begins to grow quicker when there is 
sugar to feed on. When there is no 
sugar, the yeast has to change some 
of the starch to sugar, and, of 
course, this takes time. 
> Pricking the top of a loaf with a 
fork before it is put in the oven 
tends to make it rise and bake 
evenly. 

Do not try setting bread over 
night either in midsummer or mid- 
winter. In cold weather bread is 
likely to be chilled, in summer it may 
sour. There is plenty of time to 
raise and bake bread in the daytime, 
when one can watch it and give the 
careful consideration it requires 
above any other cooking. 

If you live in a region where the 
water is very hard, boil it, and let 
it grow lukewarm before mixing 
with flour, for soft water is better 
than hard in the bread -making 
process. ' 

Flour is almost as sensitive to 
odors as is milk; therefore it should 
be kept in a perfectly clean, whole- 
some, dry place. Always raise the 
barrel off the floor, either on two 
strips of wood or on one of the handy 
little contrivances which will swing it 
out and in to a cupboard. Never 



use flour for anything without sift- 
ing it first — ^it may be perfectly free 
from any foreign substance and It 
may not. 

Water Bread. 

4 cupfuls boiling water, 
4 tablespoonfuls lard, 
1 tablespoonful sugar, 
IJ teaspoonfuls salt, 
1 yeast cake dissolved in J cupful 
lukewarm water, 

3 quarts sifted flour. 

Put the lard, sugar, and salt in a 
bread raiser; pour on boiling water; 
when lukewarm, add dissolved yeast 
cake and 5 cupfuls flour; then stir 
until thoroughly mixed. Add re- 
maining flour, mix, and knead. Re- 
turn to bowl; let rise over night. 
In the morning cut down, knead, 
shape into loaves or biscuits, place in 
greased pans, having pans nearly 
half full. Cover, let raise again, and 
bake. 

Entire-Wheat Bread. 

4 cupfuls scalded milk, 
i cupful brown sugar, 
IJ teaspoonfuls salt, 

1 yeast cake, 

9 cupfuls entire-wheat flour. 

Put sugar and salt in a bread 
raiser and pour the hot milk over 
them; when cool, add the flour and 
yeast cakfe, beat hard with a wooden 
spoon for five minutes, cover the pan 
and set in a warm place till the bat- 
ter doubles its bulk. . Beat it down, 
turn into greased bread pans, having 
each half full. Let the batter rise 
nearly to the top, then bake. 

Caraway Bread (German recipe). 

Follow the recipe for entire-wheat 
bread, substituting rye flour for en- 
tire-wheat flour and adding 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar. Make the bread 
as directed at the first kneading, 
working in a tablespoonful of cara- 
way seeds. Shape into loaves, raise, 
and bake. 



BREAD 



21 



Graham Bread. 

1 quart Graham flour, 
1 quart white flour, 
1 yeast cake, 
IJ teaspoonfuls salt, 
J cupful brown sugar, 

1 quart milk. 

Scald the milk and pour it over the 
sugar and salt; when lukewarm, stir 
in the flour and the yeast, which has 
been dissolved in warm water. Beat 
hard and let it rise in the pan till 
spongy. This is u, dough which is 
not stiff enough to knead; it simply 
requires a thorough stirring and beat- 
ing. Put it into greased pans, raise, 
and oake in an oven which is hot at 
first, but cool during the later part 
of the baking process. This dough 
may be used to drop into greased 
gem pans and bake as mufSns. 

Kye Bread. 

2 quarts rye flour, 

1 quart wheat flour, 

1 yeast cake, 

3 pints warm water, 

2 teaspoonfuls salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Sift the flour with the sugar and 
salt, stir in the warm water and dis- 
solved yeast. When thorouglily 
mixed, begin to work it with your 
hands; it will be sticky, but the 
dough must be kept very soft. When 
thoroughly beaten, pour it into well- 
buttered pans and set it in a warm 
place. Let it rise to twice its bulk 
and bake an hour in an oven which is 
a little slower than for white bread. 
Rub the crust over with butter to 
soften it as soon as it is taken from 
the oven. 

Cornmeal Bread. 
2 cupfuls flour, 
f cupful cornmeal, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

3 cupfuls water, 

1 teaspoon ful salt, 
1 yeast cake. 
Put the milk and water in a dou- 
ble boiler, and let it get scalding 



hot; then stir in ,the cornmeal and 
allow it to cook slowly for half an 
hour. Pour it into a bread raiser- 
and when lukewarm add the salt and 
yeast. Gradually beat in the flour. 
Put on a cover and set in a warm 
place to raise. When it doubles its 
bulk, add more flour if necessary and 
work with a wooden spoon until it 
can be handled. Turn out on a 
floured baking board and knead thor- 
oughly. Mold into loaves, put into 
greased bread pans, and set it to 
rise in a warm place. When light 
bake in a moderate oven for three 
quarters of an hour. 



Sguash Bread (German recipe). 

2 cupfuls squash, 
i cupful sugar, 

3 cupfuls scalded milk, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 yeast cake, 

Flour enough to knead. 

Press the stewed squash through a 
potato ricer, stir it with the sugar, 
salt, and butter into the hot milk; 
when cool, pour in the dissolved 
yeast and as much flour as will make 
a dough that can be handled. Turn 
out on a baking board and knead for 
fifteen minutes. Return to the bread 
raiser and let it double its bulk. 
Knead again, shape into loaves, 
raise, and bake. 



Oatmeal Bread. 

i cupful rolled oats, 

IJ cupfuls flour, 

2 cupfuls boiling water, 

1 yeast cake, 

J tablespoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

i cupful molasses. 

Put the oatmeal into a bread 
raiser, pour the boiling water over 
and let stand until lukewarm; then 
add salt, butter, dissolved yeast 
cake, and molasses; stir in the flour, 
beat thoroughly, and set it to raise 
in buttered bread pans. When it has 
almost doubled its bulk, bake. 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Nut Bread. 

1 cupful entire-wheat flour, 
1 cupful white flour, 
i cake yeast, 

1 cupful milk, 

2 tablespoon fuls brown sugar, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

J pound shelled hickory nuts. 

Set a sponge of the wheat flour, 
white flour, yeast, and milk; when 
light, add sugar, salt, hickory nuts, 
and enough entire-wheat flour to 
make as stiff as can be stirred with 
spoon. Put in the pan, raise, and 
bake one hour. 

Kye au4 Indian Bread. 

2 cupfuls yellow cornmeal, 
i cupful yeast, 

i cupful molasses, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 
J teaspoonful soda, 

3 cupfuls rye meal. 

Put the cornmeal into a mixing 
bowl and scald with boiling water; 
after ten minutes mix to a soft bat- 
ter with cold water. When luke- 
warm, add the yeast, molasses, salt, 
soda, and 2 cupfuls rye meal. Beat 
thoroughly, cover with a pan, and set 
in a warm place to rise over night. 
When the surface cracks open, stir it 
down, then grease and flour a pan, 
turn in the dough, smooth over the 
top, and sprinkle evenly with flour 
to prevent crust from forming. Let 
it rise again until cracks appear, 
then bake it in a moderate oven from 
two to three hours, covering with a 
tin lid after the first hour. 

rruit Bread. 

3 cupfuls sweet nulk, 

2 cakes yeast, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

4 tablespoonfuls lard, 

i tablespoonfuls sugar, 
IJ cupfuls fruit, cut fine. 
Flour. 

Scald milk and cool to lukewarm; 
strain in the yeast dissolved in one 
quarter cupful lukewarm water. 
Sift salt with three cupfuls of flour, 
beat vigorously into liquid, and let 



sponge rise. Cream the lard, butter, 
and sugar; dredge the fruit with 
flour and add to the sponge. Add 
su£Bcient flour to make a soft dough. 
Knead thoroughly and set to rise. 
When light, divide, form into loaves, 
put in bread pans, and when ready, 
bake in slightly cooler oven than is 
required for plain bread. For the 
fruit in this bread, use either raisins, 
currants, citron, dates, figs, or pru- 
nelles. 

Bread Made with Dry Yeast. 
2 quarts flour, 
2J cupfuls warm water, 
2 tablespoonfuls lard, 
1 yeast cake, 
1 tablespoonful sugar, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Sift the flour in the bread pan; 
break up the yeast cake and put in a 
quart bowl; then add a gill of water, 
and mash with a spoon until the 
yeast and water are well mixed. Beat 
in 1 gill of flour. Cover the bowl and 
set in a warm place for two hours. 
At the end of that time the batter 
should be a perfect sponge. . Add to 
the sponge a pint of warm water, 
half the lard, also salt and sugar. 
Stir this mixture into the flour and 
mix with a spoon. Sprinkle the board 
with flour, turn out the dough, knead 
twenty minutes, using as little flour 
as possible. At the end of this time 
the ball of dough should be soft, 
smooth, and elastic. Place the dough 
in the bowl and rub the second 
spoonful of butter or lard over it. 
Cover with a towel, then a tin cover. 
Set the bowl in a warm place and 
let it raise over night. In the morn- 
ing the dough will have increased to 
three times its original volume and 
be a perfect sponge. Knead it in the 
bowl for five minutes — do not use 
flour — ^then shape into three small 
loaves. Put these in deep pans, and 
with a sharp knife cut lengthwise 
through the center of each loaf. Put 
the pans in a warm place and cover 
with a towel. Let the loaves rise to 
twice their size, then bake fifty min- 
utes. 



BREAD 



est 



Sweet-Potato Bread. 
1 cake yeast, 
J cupful lukewarm water, 
1 cupful scalded milk, 
1 tablespoonful salt, 
i cupful sugar, 

1 cupful sweet mashed potatoes, 
3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Dissolve the yeast in the lukewarm 
water, add the milk, salt, sugar, and 
potatoes (roasted, scraped from the 
skins, and worked to a cream with 
the melted butter), then allow to 
cool. Beat all together until light, 
then stir in with a wooden spoon 
enough flour to make a soft dough. 
Throw a cloth over the bread bowl 
and set in a warm place until well 
raised. Make into small loaves; let 
them rise for an hour and bake in a 
brisk oven; 

Salt-Rising Bread. 

2 cupfuls hot water, 
1^ teaspoon fuls salt, 

1 pint lukewarm milk. 
Flour. 

Dissolve J teaspoonful salt in hot 
water, and beat in gradually enough 
flour to make a very soft dough. 
Beat for ten minutes, cover, and set 
in a warm place for eight hours. Stir 
the salt into the milk and add enough 
flour to make a stiff batter before 
working it into the raised dough; 
mix thoroughly, cover, and set again 
in a warm place to rise until very 
light. Knead in enough flour to 
make the batter of the consistency of 
ordinary bread dough. Make into 
loaves and set them to rise; when 
light, bake. 

SHALL BBEADS MADE FBOU YEAST 

Stockholm Bread (Swedish recipe). 
64 cupfuls flour, 
1 yeast cake, 
3^ cupfuls scalded milk, 
J cupful melted butter, 
1 egg, 

§ cupful sugar, 
J teaspoonful salt, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 



Scald 1 cupful milk; when luke- 
warm, dissolve the yeast cake in it. 
Beat in 1 cupful llour and let the 
sponge rise till light; add the rest 
of the milk with 4 cupfuls flour, beat 
again and allow it to rise. Then add 
the butter, sugar, cinnamon, salt, and 
the egg beaten to a froth, also the 
remainder of the flour. Mix and 
knead on a floured baking board. 
Cover and raise. Roll the dough into 
coils about an inch and a half thick 
and twelve inches long. Braid them, 
pinch the ends together, set in a 
greased pan to rise, and bake in a 
moderate oven. Cool slightly, then 
brush with powdered sugar mois- 
tened with boUing water and slightly 
flavored with cinnamon. 

Eederal Bread. 
1 quart milk, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 yeast cake, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
3 eggs. 

Scald the milk and add to it the 
butter and salt; when cool, pour in 
the dissolved yeast cake and beat in 
enough flour to make a dough that is 
softer than for bread. Pour into a 
shallow pan and raise over night; 
bake in the morning. When taken 
from the oven, split it shortcake fash- 
Ion, butter generously, and serve hot. 
This is an excellent hot bread to 
make for breakfast, because, unless 
the weather is unusually warm, the 
cook will And it just in proper con- 
dition to bake when breakfast is re- 
quired. 

Rice Bread. 

i pound boiled rice, 
2 quarts flour, 
i yeast cake, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

3 teaspoonfuls sugar. 

Mash the rice while hot and rub it 
into the flour with the tips of the 
fingers. Add the salt and sugar, 
warm milk, and dissolved yeast. 
Make it into c dough just soft 



24 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



enough to handle, knead well, and 
bake in a shallow pan. Let it double 
its bulk, and bake in a hot oven. 

Parker House Kolls. 
7 cupfuls flour, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 tablespoonful sugar, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 pint milk, 

1 yeast cake. 

Put 4 cupfuls flour into a mixing 
bowl with the salt, sugar, and but- 
ter; pour on the milk, scalding hot, 
and beat thoroughly ; allow it to cool, 
then add the dissolved yeast and let 
the sponge raise till frothy; put in 
the rest of the flour, mix thoroughly, 
and knead. Raise again, then turn 
out on a baking board and shape into 
Parker House rolls. The way to 
make these rolls is to cut off a small 
ball of dough and roll it flat and 
thin. Brush over the top with melt- 
ed butter, cut across the middle, but 
not quite through the dough, with 
the back of a silver knife. Fold over 
and lay nearly double then press down 
to make the dough adhere; allow 
them to rise. Bake fifteen minutes 
in a hot oven, and brush with melted 
butter. 

Swiss Bolls. 

S cupfuls milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
i cupful butter, 

1 cake yeast, 
IJ quarts flour, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Scald the milk and melt the sugar 
and butter; when lukewarm, add the 
dissolved yeast. Stir in the flour and 
set in a warm place to raise. Turn 
out on a floured bread board, roll till 
an inch thick, brush the top over 
.with melted butter, and roll up the 
sheet of dough like a. rolled jelly 
cake. Press it lightly into shape and 
cut from the end slices about an inch 
thick; put the slices, cut side up, into 
a greased pan and let rise until they 
have doubled in height. Bake in a 



hot oven twenty minutes, and brush 
over with melted butter. 

Hot Cross Buns. 
1 pint milk, 
i cupful butter, 
J cupful sugar, 
3 eggs, 

i teaspoonful salt, 
1 yeast cake. 
Flour. 

Scald the milk and pour it over the 
butter and salt; when lukewarm, add 
the dissolved yeast and eggs well 
beaten, then siirt in flour enough to 
make a thin batter, and beat with a 
wire whisk ten minutes; when full 
of bubbles, add flour enough to 
make a dough; knead it hard and 
raise. When it has doubled its bulk, 
turn it out, knead it and cut into 
buns. Place them in a greased pan 
to rise, brush them over when ready 
to go into the oven with a sirup made 
of 1 tablespoonful cream and 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls sugar boiled together 
for a minute. Dust with cinnamon 
and just before putting in the oven 
cut two gashes in the top with a 
sharp knife. By adding raisins or 
currants to this recipe you can have 
very nice fruit buns. If you wish to 
transform them into prune kringles, 
chop 6 or 8 meaty prunes, which have 
been cooked and sweetened, add to 
the dough, let rise, and, instead of 
baking them bun shape, cut into 
sticks. 

Yorkshire Sally Lunn (English rec- 
ipe). 

3 quarts flour, 

1 yeast cake, 

2 eggs, 

1 cupful butter, 

1 tablespoonful sugar, 
J teaspoonful salt, 

2 cupfuls milk. 

Warm the flour, add the milk luke- 
warm, the melted butter, beaten eggs, 
sugar and salt, then the dissolved 
yeast cake. Beat thoroughly. This 
makes a very soft dough, but it must 
be kneaded; therefore, add a little 



BREAD 



25 



more flour, as it is difficult to handle. 
Cut into small balls; drop each one 
into a greased muffin pan, raise, 
brush over with white of egg, and 
bake till delicately brown. When tak- 
en from the oven, brush with a sirup 
made from milk and sugar. Serve 
hot. 

Apple Cake (Dutch recipe). 
1 cupful milk, 
i cupful sugar, 
i cupful butter, 
i teaspoonful salt, 

1 yeast cake, 

2 eggs. 
Flour, 

5 apples, 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

i teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Scald the milk, pour it over the 
butter, sugar, and salt; when luke- 
warm, add the eggs, dissolved yeast 
cake, and enough flour to make a 
soft dough. Beat it thoroughly and 
set in a warm place to raise. Beat 
again and let it rise a second time. 
Then pour into a shallow greased 
pan, spread the dough out thin with 
a palette knife, and brush over the 
top with melted butter. Pare the ap- 
ples, core, and cut into eighths. Lay 
them thickly on top of the dough in 
straight rows. Dust sugar and cinna- 
mon over them, cover with a towel, 
set in a warm place, and let the 
dough raise again. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven half an hour, cut into 
squares and serve hot, with whipped, 
sweetened cream. 

Entire-Buckwheat Cakes. 

3 cupfuls warm milk, 
I cake yeast, 

J teaspoonful salt, 
Buckwheat flour, 
1 teaspoonful soda, 
i cupful boiling water, 
1 tablespoonful molasses. 

The general idea is that you have 
to mix buckwheat with white flour 
to make good cakes, but they are ex- 
cellent made with buckwheat alone. 



Pour the milk into a mixing bowl, 
add the dissolved yeast, and stir in 
as much buckwheat flour as will 
make a medium batter, then add the 
salt and molasses, and leave the bat- 
ter to stand over night. In the morn- 
ing, when ready to bake, dissolve the 
soda in boiling water, stir it in, beat 
for a few minutes, then make your 
cakes. Turn them just once. 

Luncheon Rolls. 

2 cupfuls sifted flour, 

i cupful milk, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar, 
1 cake yeast. 

Dissolve the yeast in lukewarm 
milk, add sugar and salt, then add 
the butter, melted. Stir milk into 
flour gradually. Give the dough a. 
hard kneading, adding sufficient flour 
to make it soft. Cut and form into 
rolls, place in buttered biscuit pans, 
set in a warm place to rise, and 
bake in a brisk oven. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

1 cake yeast, 

2 cupfuls lukewarm milk, 

1 tablespoonful wheat flour, 

1 tablespoonful molasses, 

J teaspoonful salt, 

1 quart buckwheat flour. 

Dissolve the yeast in the milk. 
Rub together the flour, molasses, and 
salt; add to this the ifjilk containing 
the yeast, and rub until perfectly 
smooth, then stir in two cupfuls 
lukewarm milk or water. To this add 
sufficient buckwheat flour to make 
thin batter, which should be rubbed 
perfectly smooth. Set the batter in a, 
moderately warm place to rise over 
night. In the morning thin, if nec- 
essary, and fry on welj-greased grid- 
dle. 

Baised Batter Cakes, 

1 cake yeast, 

3 cupfuls milk, 

2 cupfuls flour. 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



4 tablespoonfuls melted lard, 
4 tablespoonfuls sirup. 
Dash salt. 

Dissolve the yeast in lukewarm 
milk. Put into mixing bowl the flour 
melted with lard, then add sirup, 
salt, and milk. Add the yeast, and 
mix until a smooth batter is pro- 
duced. Set in a moderately warm 
place, cover with a cloth, and let it 
raise over night. In the morning 
beat well, and fry on well-greased 
griddle. 

English Bath Buns. 
4 cupfuls flour, 
i cupful butter, 
4 eggs, 

6 tablespoonfuls granulated sug- 
ar, 
i cupful milk, 

1 cake yeast. 

Put flour in bowl, make well in 
center, break eggs in whole, then add 
butter, milk, and, last, the yeast, 
which has been previously dissolved 
in a little warm water. Mix thor- 
oughly and raise. If it is put in a 
moderately warm place, it will be 
light in an hour. Turn it out on a 
well-floured board, and with the tips 
of the fingers lightly work in S ta- 
blespoonfuls sugar and add the flav- 
oring. Drop by tablespoonfuls on a 
buttered baking pan, raise for ten 
minutes, and bake twenty minutes in 
a hot oven. Sultanas or chopped al- 
monds may be added. 

Lancashire Tea Cakes. 
6 cupfuls flour, 
i cupful butter, 

2 cupfuls milk, 
1 yeast cake, 

1 cupful currants, 

2 ounces candied lemon, 
2 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
A little grated nutmeg. 

Put the sugar and the currants 
with the flour; melt the butter in the 
milk; when cool, mix with the beaten 



eggs and yeast. Add the dry in- 
gredients, beating well, and set to 
raise. When light, put in cake pans 
to double its bulk. Bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven. These are de- 
licious when fresh, and equally good 
split and toasted the second day. 

Swedish Kolls. 

1 yeast cake, 

2 cupfuls milk, scalded, 
i cupful butter, 

i cupful sugar, 

1 scant teaspoonful salt. 

Whites of 3 eggs, 

7 or 8 cupfuls flour. 

Melt the butter, dissolve the sugar 
and salt in the hot milk; when luke- 
warm, add the yeast and beaten 
whites. Mix in flour to make a 
drop batter. In the morning add the 
remainder of the flour and knead 
twenty minutes. Raise till light; then 
knead again slightly and roll half an 
inch thick. Have the edges as 
straight as possible. Spread all over 
with a thin layer of soft butter, a 
sprinkling of sugar, cinnamon, grated 
lemon rind,, and currants. Roll like 
a jelly roll, cut off slices an inch 
wide, lay them with the cut side down 
on greased pans, and when raised 
bake in a hot oven fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Glaze with sugar dissolved 
in milk. 

Currant Squares. 
1 cupful cream, 
J cupful melted butter, 

3 eggs, 

1 cupful sugar, 
i cake yeast, 

2 tablespoonfuls water, 

4 cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful powdered mace, 
1 teaspoonful powdered cinna- 
mon, 
1 cupful currants. 

Heat the cream in a double boiler, 
then stir in the butter, well-beaten 
eggs, and sugar. Add the yeast dis- 
solved in a. little water, the flour 
sifted with the spices, then the cur- 



BREAD 



27 



rants dredged with flour. Beat hard 
for fifteen minutes. Pour into a shal- 
low baking pan and raise until it is 
almost doubled in bulk. Bake in a 
quick oven; when done, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and cinnamon. Let 
the cake cool slightly, then cut into 
squares with a sharp knife. 

Raised Wheat MufSins. 
2 cupfuls flour, 
1 cupful milk, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
i tablespoonful sugar, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
1 egg, 
i yeast cake. 

Pour the flour, salt, and sugar in a 
bowl; boll the milk and add the but- 
ter to it. Let the mixture stand till 
lukewarm, add the milk, butter, and 
yeast to the flour, and beat well. 
Cover the bowl and set in a cool 
place over night. In the morning 
the batter will be a light sponge. 
Beat the egg and add to this sponge. 
Half fill buttered muffin pans with 
the batter; cover, and let the muf- 
fins raise in a warm place. Bake for 
half an hour in a moderately quick 



2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
7 eggs, 

1 cupful butter. 
Warm water. 

Sift the flour; into 1 cupful of it 
pour the dissolved yeast with just 
enough warm water to make a bat- 
ter. Set it to raise. When it has 
doubled its bulk, put in the salt, 
sugar, melted butter, and 4 eggs. 
Beat five minutes, add another egg, 
beat again, and so on until 'all/ have 
been used; keep beating until the 
paste leaves the side of the bowl, 
then set in a warm place for four 
hours. Turn it out on a floured 
board, roll in a long piece half an 
inch thick, spread with softened but- 
ter, and fold one end over the center, 
then the other end over that, until 
you have three layers. Cut off pieces 
about an inch wide, lay them on the 
board to raise, and cover with a 
towel. When puffy, take each strip 
between the fingers and thumbs, twist 
in different directions, coil pyramid 
shape, letting one point come on top. 
Set to raise on a greased pan, bake 
twenty minutes, and brush over with 
powdered sugar, moisten with water, 
and flavor with cinnamon. 



Raised Wheat Waffles. 

3 cupfuls flour, 
li cupfuls milk, 
i yeast cake, 

1 tablespoonful sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
J teaspoonful salt, 

1 egg. 

BoU the milk and, after adding the 
butter to it, cool the mixture. Put 
the flour, sugar, and salt in a bowl, 
add the milk and yeast, and beat 
well. Raise the batter over night. In 
the morning add the well-beaten egg. 
Have the waffle irons hot and 
greased. Cook the cakes quickly. 

Broiche (French recipe). 

4 cupfuls flour, 
4 yeast cake, 

1 teaspoonful salt. 



Erenznach Horns (German recipe). 
4 cupfuls flour, 

1 yeast cake, 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

2 eggs, 

J cupful water, 

1 cupful milk, 

i teaspoonful salt. 

Set a sponge with 3 cupfuls flour 
with the yeast cake and milk. When 
it rises, make into a dough with the 
rest of the flour, adding the butter, 
sugar, eggs, and salt. Let it rise 
again. Roll it out into pieces six 
inches square and quite thin. Cut 
each square into four triangles, brush 
with melted butter, dust lightly with 
flour, roll up from the wide side, let- 
ting the point of the triangle come 
on top and bend around in the form 
of a horseshoe. Put them to rise in 



28 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



a greased pan when ready to bake, 
brush over with milk, and bake in a 
hot oven. 

Eaised Doughnuts. 

2 cupfuls bread dough, 
1 cupful sugar, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
J teaspoonful nutmeg, 

2 eggs. 
Flour. 

When the dough for a baking of 
bread rises the last time in the pan 
and is kneaded out on the board, cut 
off a piece large enough to fill a pint 
measure, put in a bowl, add all the 
ingredients called for in the recipe 
and work them into the spongy 
mass, sifting in flour as needed to 
make it of a consistency that can be 
rolled. When thoroughly blended, 
turn it out on the board, sift with 
flour, and roll about three quarters 
of an inch thick. Cut into fingers or 
rings with a doughnut cutter and 
spread them out on the board to 
rise. When puffy, fry in boiling 
fat, turning so they will be browned 
all over. Drain from the kettle and 
toss immediately in powdered sugar. 
A favorite breakfast in New Eng- 
land is the bread dough, taken with- 



out any addition of sugar, eggs, or 
spices, cut into strips, raised, and 
fried like doughnuts, then eaten hot 
with maple sirup. 

German Coffee Cake. 
1 egg, 

1 cupful milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
J yeast cake, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

§ teaspoonful cinnamon, 

i cupful raisins, 

i cupful shaved citron. 

Flour. 

Scald the milk, pour it over the 
butter, sugar, and salt. When luke- 
warm, add the dissolved yeast and 
enough flour to make a soft dough; 
beat the mixture hard; let it rise 
over night. In the morning add the 
beaten egg and the fruit, also a lit- 
tle more flour if necessary, and knead 
for a few minutes. Shape the dough 
into a ring, put in a greased pie 
plate, and set to rise. Before put- 
ting into the oven, brush the top 
with melted butter, and sprinkle with 
cinnamon and sugar. Bake half an 
hour. 



CHAPTER III 



BAKING-POWDER BREADS 



Baklng-Powder Biscuits. 
2 cupfuls flour, 
2 tablespoonfuls lard, 

1 cupful milk, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonf uls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Sift the salt, baking powder, and 
flour together, rub in the lard, add 
the milk, and beat to a soft dough. 
Turn out on a floured baking board, 
roll out about an inch thick, and cut 
into biscuits. Lay in a baking pan, 
brush the tops with milk, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Drop Biscuits. 

3 cupfuls flour, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
J teaspoonful salt, 
IJ cupfuls milk. 

Sift the baking powder, salt, and 
flour together, rub in the butter with 
the tips of the fingers, then add the 
milk, and beat to a soft dough. 
Grease a baking pan, lift a level ta- 
blespoonful of the dough and drop 
it into the pan, having each biscuit 
an inch apart, and bake in a hot 
oven. This is an excellent recipe to 
use when one is in a. hurry and there 
is not time to make a biscuit which 
has to be rolled out and cut. 

Flannel Cakes. 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

2 cupfuls milk, 
2 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 



Warm the butter in the milk, pour 
over the well-beaten yolks of the 
eggs, add sufliclent flour to make it 
pour, then the salt and baking pow- 
der. Beat the whole thoroughly, fold 
in the whipped whites of the eggs, 
and bake on a hot griddle. 

Batter Bread. 
2 eggs, 

1 cupful cornmeal, 
1 cupful milk, 

1 tablespoonful butter, melted, 
J cupful white flour, 
4 teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 
powder. 

Melt the butter over hot water; 
separate the eggs; beat the yolks 
slightly; add the milk, butter, corn- 
meal, flour, and salt. Beat thor- 
oughly, add the baking powder, beat 
again, and fold in, carefully, the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake in greased shallow bak- 
ing pan in a moderate oven thirty- 
five minutes. Cut into squares, and 
serve warm. 

Shortcake. 

2 cupfuls flour, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 cupful milk. 

Sift together all the dry ingre- 
dients, rub in the butter with the 
tips of the fingers, then wet with the 
milk to a soft dough. Drop it on a. 
floured baking board and, handling 
it just as little as possible, roll and 



so 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



pat into two round cakes, which will 
fill a. deep pie plate. Drop in one 
cake of the dough, brush with melted 
butter, and lay the other one on top 
of it. Bake until crisp, brown, and 
puffy. Split and between the cake 
and on top spread any fruit which is 
in season. Strawberries, of course, 
make a most delicious shortcake. Be- 
sides this, peaches can be used, red 
raspberries, cherries, fresh apricots, 
oranges, or a blend of oranges and 
bananas, while a shortcake filled 
with stewed prunes or well-seasoned 
apple sauce is not to be despised. 
Chipped pineapple mixed with ba- 
nanas and oranges makes a delicious 
filling. In every case, have it juicy by 
leaving the fruit covered with sugar 
to stand for an hour in a cool place 
before it is served. 

Graham Biscuits. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 cupfuls Graham flour, 
1 cupful white flour, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful sugar, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
S cupfuls milk. 

Mix thoroughly, and chop into the 
mixture 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Add 
the milk, and if the mixture is then 
too stiff to handle, add enough water 
to make it a soft dough. Turn upon 
a floured board, roll out and cut into 
biscuits, handling as little and as 
lightly as possible. Bake in a steady 



Waffles. 
2 eggs, 

1 cupful milk, 
IJ cupfuls flour, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
i teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs light; 
add alternately, and beating in well, 
the milk and flour. When these in- 
gredients are mixed, add the butter. 



baking powder, salt, and whipped 
whites of the eggs. 

Sally lunn. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 cupfuls sweet mUk, 

3 eggs, 

6 cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Warm the butter in the milk; pour 
over the eggs, beaten light; then stir 
in a little at a time, and beating con- 
tinuously, the flour, with which has 
been sifted the baking powder, salt, 
and sugar. Turn into a greased cake 
mold, and bake in a steady oven. 

Egg Biscuits. 

3 cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful lard, 

1 cupful sweet milk, 

IJ teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Sift the flour, add the salt, sugar, 
eggs (beaten well), lard, milk, and 
baking powder. Work to a smooth 
dough, roll half an inch thick, cut in 
large biscuits, rub over with sweet 
milk, lay on buttered tins, and bake 
brown in a quick oven. 

Corn Cakes. 

2 cupfuls cornmeal, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 

3 eggs, 

1 cupful sweet milk, 
1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 
powder. 

Put the meal in a bowl, mix with 
salt, and pour over it enough boiling 
water to moisten the mass; cover for 
five minutes or an hour, as conven- 
ient. Beat the eggs separately, add a 
cup of sweet milk to the yolks, and 
pour over the scalded meal; mix well, 
add the baking powder and the beat- 
en whites of the eggs. Grease a grid- 
dle with bacon drippings, and fry. 



BAKING-POWDER BREADS 



31 



Vieuna Biscuits. 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

i teaspoonful salt, 

4 cupfuls flour, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 tablespoonful lard, 
1^ cupfuls milk. 

Sift the baking powder and salt 
with the flour; mix thoroughly with 
the butter and lard; wet with the 
milk; turn out on a floured bread 
board, and knead smooth; roll into a 
sheet half an inch thick, and cut with 
a biscuit cutter. Bake at once in a 
quick oven. 

Ground-Bice Muffins. 

4 cupfuls ground rice, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
Dash salt, 

3 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful Calumet baking 
powder. 

Cream together the butter and sug- 
ar. Pour on enough boiling water to 
moisten the rice, stirring all the time. 
Cool and add the yolks of the eggs, 
well beaten, creamed butter and sug- 
ar; then enough sweet milk to form 
a batter, beating thoroughly; add 
the baking powder and salt, and, last, 
fold in the whites of the eggs, well 
beaten. Bake in gem pans in a quick 
oven. 

Twin-Uountain Kuffins. 
i cupful butter, 
J cupful sugar, 

1 egg, 

f cupful milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar 
and egg, well beaten; sift baking 
powder with flour, and add to the 
first mixture, alternating with milk. 
Bake in buttered gem pans twenty- 
flve minutes. 



Kye Oems. 

1§ cupfuls rye flour, 

IJ cupfuls white flour, 

4 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder. 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
3 eggs, 

i cupful molasses, 
IJ cupfuls milk, 
3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Sift the dry ingredients, add mo- 
lasses, milk, eggs, well beaten, and 




o Oval Muflin Pans ; 6, Oblong Muffin Pans ; 
c, Bound Popover Pans. 



butter. Bake in hot oven in buttered 
gem pan twenty-flve minutes. 

ITut Biscuits. 

3 cupfuls flour, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 cupful chopped nuts, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar, ' 
I cupful milk. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and 
baking powder; rub in the butter, 
add the nuts — English walnuts, hick- 
ory nuts, or almonds — and sugar; 
mix to a soft dough with milk. Mold 
with the hands into small balls, place 
well apart on greased pans, brush 
each with milk, put a pinch of 



32 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



chopped nuts on top, and bake in a 
hot oven. 

Corn Mnfilns. 

3 cupfuls cormneal, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

1 tablespoonful sugar, 

1 teaspoonfiU salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

1 tablespoonful butter or lard, 

2 eggs, 

2 cupfuls milk. 

Sift together commeal, flour, sug- 
ar, salt, and powder; rub in the 
shortening, add eggs, beaten, and 
milk; mix into batter of consistency 
of cup cake; fill muffin pans, well 
greased, two thirds full. Bake in a 
hot oven. 

Berry Muffins. 

2 cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
J cupful sugar, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
1 egg, 

1 cupful milk, 
1 cupful berries. 

Mix as for plain muffins; add ber- 
ries last, dusting them with a little 
flour. Bake in muffin pans in a hot 
oven. 

Graham Muffins. 

1 quart Graham flour, 

1 tablespoonful brown sugar, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

1 egg, 

2 cupfuls milk. 

Sift together Graham flour, sugar, 
salt, and powder; add beaten egg and 
milk; mix into batter. Bake in a hot 
oven fifteen minutes in greased muf- 
fin pans. 

Slappers. 

2 cupfuls Indian commeal, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



3 eggs, 

1 cupful milk, 

1 cupful wheat flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Mix together meal, salt, and but- 
ter; pour on slowly sufficient boiling 
water to thoroughly moisten the 
meal. Cover; let stand over night. 
Add the eggs, well beaten, milk, flour 
— ^the first half-cupful of flour being 
mixed with the baking powder — ^to 
make a very thick drop batter. Drop 
by spoonfuls on a hot greased grid- 
dle, cook slowly till brown, turn and 
brown on other side. 

No-Egg Wheat Cakes. 

3 cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
i teaspoonful salt, 

2 cupfuls milk. 

Sift dry ingredients; add milk to 
make a soft batter, and beat hard. 
Bake immediately on hot griddle. 
Serve with butter and maple sirup. 

J^am Griddle Cakes. 

3 cupfuls flour, 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
i teaspoonful salt, 

IJ teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 eggs, 
2 cupfuls milk. 

Rub butter and sugar to a cream; 
add yolks of eggs, one at a time. 
Sift flour, salt, and powder together; 
add to butter with milk and whites 
of eggs whipped to' dry froth ; mix to 
a batter. Bake in small cakes; as 
fast as browned, lay each cake on a 
plate and spread raspberry jam over 
it, then bake more, lay on other al- 
ready done; repeat this until you 
have used jam tsvice, then bake an- 
other batch. 

Blueberry Griddlecakes. 

1 cupful blueberries, 

2 cupfuls flour, 



BAKING-POWDER BREADS 



33 



1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful brown sugar, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

2 eggs, 

2 cupfuls milk. 

Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and 
baking powder; add beaten eggs, 
milk, and berries. Mix into a batter. 
Have griddle hot enough to form a 
crust as soon as the batter touches 
it. In order to confine the juice of 
berries, turn quickly to form a crust 
on the other side. 

Griddled SCuffins. 
1 cupful flour, 
1 teaspoonful butter, 

1 egg, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

i cupful milk. 

Mix the flour, butter, baking pow- 
der, and egg with the milk. Place 
small muffin rings on a hot griddle, 
put a little fat into each ring, fill 
them half full with the batter, and 
bake over a moderate fire till light 
brown. Turn with a pancake turner, 
and bake the same on the other side. 

Trench Pancakes. 

3 eggs, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
A pinch of salt, 
2 cupfuls flour. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs light; 
pour over them the milk; add gradu- 
ally the baking powder, salt, and 
flour; fold in lightly the whipped 
whites of the eggs. Bake by large 
spoonfuls on a hot griddle. Spread 
each cake as soon as baked with jam, 
and shape into a roll. 

Bannocks (Irish recipe). 

4 cupfuls flour, 
i cupful butter, 
IJ cupfuls milk. 



i teaspoonful salt, 
3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Mix the ingredients to a soft 
dough; roll an inch thick, shape into 
cakes, six inches across, with a large 
cooky cutter, and bake on a hot 
griddle. Before taking from the fire, 
be sure they are baked to the heart. 
Split in two, butter, and serve hot. 

One-Egg Griddlecakes. 
3 cupfuls flour, 
3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 egg, 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 

2 cupfuls milk. 

Sift the dry ingredients, separate 
the egg, and add to flour the milk 
and beaten yolk. Beat thoroughly, 
add the melted butter and white of 
egg, beaten to a stiff froth. Bake at 
once. 

"Whole-Wheat Griddlecakes. 
IJ cupfuls white flour, 
I cupful whole-wheat flour, 
J teaspoonful salt, 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

4 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder. 
If cupfuls milk, 
^ 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Sift the flour, baking powder, 

salt, and sugar; stir into a batter 

with the milk, the beaten egg and 
butter. Bake »t once. 

Indian Griddlecakes. 

1 cupful Indian meal, 

1 cupful flour, 

2 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful butter, 
J teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Milk. 

Put Indian meal into a mixing 
bowl and pour over it enough scald- 



34 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



ing milk to make a thick mush. 
When it cools, add the flour and 
enough cold milk to make a thick 
batter, add the eggs, well beaten, the 
butter, melted, the salt, and baking 
powder. Beat till full of bubbles, 
then bake on a hot griddle. 

Hominy Gems. 

3 cupfuls cold hominy, 

3 eggs, 

3 cupfuls milk, 

1 cupful cornmeal, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful sugar, 

S teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Put the cornmeal in a mixing bowl, 
pour over it the scalded milk, beat 
thoroughly, and when cool add the 
hominy. Stir in the eggs, whip to a 
froth, add salt, sugar, baking pow- 
der, and butter, beat hard, pour into 
greased gem pans, and bake in a hot 
oven. This recipe when thinned with 
more milk makes delicious griddle- 
cakes. 

Graham Griddlecakes. 

IJ cupfuls Graham flour, 
J cupful white flour, 
S teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

3 cupfuls milk, 
1 egg, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Sift the dry ingredients, then beat 
into a batter with egg, milk, and but- 
ter; bake on a griddle. 

Egg Biscuits. 

4 cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
J cupful butter, 
3 eggs, 

1} cupfuls milk, 
3 teaspoonfuls sugar, 
i teaspoonful salt. 

Sift the dry ingredients, rub in the 
butter, and make into a, dough with 



the beaten egg and milk. Turn out 
on a baking board, roll into a sheet 
and mold into biscuits, as directed for 
Parker House rolls. Bake fifteen 
minutes in a quick oven. 

Pitcaithley Scones (Scotch recipe). 

4 cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1} cupfuls milk, 
J teaspoonful salt. 

Sift together the dry ingredients, 
rub in the butter, and mix to a soft 
dough with the milk. Turn out on a 
floured baking board and roll into 
rounds. Dust the griddle thinly with 
flour, slip on the round of dough, 
and cut into quarters. Bake slowly 
and do not turn until the top is be- 
■ ginning to show bubbles. Scones 
ought to be turned only once. Serve 
hot. 

Maryland Biscuits. 
1 quart flour, 

1 cupful milk and water mixed, 
1 tablespoonful shortening, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Rub the shortening into the flour and 
add the salt; mix the milk and water, 
and add them slowly to the flour, 
stirring all the while, until you have 
a hard, almost dry, dough. Put the 
dough out on a floured board and 
knead continuously for fifteen min- 
utes, until it is soft and elastic. Then 
beat it, constantly folding, for twen- 
ty minutes longer. Roll out, cut in 
biscuits; prick the tops with a fork, 
stand in a pan so that they will not 
touch each other, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for thirty minutes. The 
sides of these biscuits should be 
white but cooked, the tops and bot- 
toms brown. — Mrs. S. T. Roreb. 

Popovers. 

1 cupful sifted flour, 
J teaspoonful salt, 
1 cupful milk, 
1 egg. 



BAKING-POWDER BREADS 



35 



Sift together the flour and salt, 
then gradually beat in the milk and 
egg. Beat two minutes with a Dover 
beater and bake about half an hour 
in gem pans, buttered, in a fast oven. 

Oat Cakes (Scotch recipe). 

2 cupfuls Canadian oatmeal, 
1 teaspoonful lard, 
J teaspoonful salt. 
Water. 

Put oatmeal in a mixing bowl; rub 
in the salt and shortening, add 
enough water to make a stiff dough, 
dust the bread board with oatmeal 
and roll out thin; cut the cake into a 
round big enough to fit a griddle and 
slip it carefully on to the hot iron. 
Before it begins to bake, cut the 
round into quarters. Bake until crisp 
and delicately brown, and if they do 
not seem quite hard enough, set the 
cakes in the oven until thoroughly 
dried out. 



BREADS HADE FBOM SOUB MILE 

Milk or cream used for baking is 
best when it sours quickly and does 
not separate, but remains thick and 
smooth. The usual measurement to 
use in every recipe where lightness 
is desired is 1 level teaspoonful soda 
to 2 cupfuls sour milk or 1 cup- 
ful molasses. Sometimes the milk is 
sour, but not loppered; then use it 
in gingerbread or brown bread, where 
there is molasses enough to complete 
the acidity, or let it stand for a few 
hours in a warm place to lopper. 
The more acid the milk is, the more 
soda it will require. Never use milk 
which has turned bitter or moldy. If 
you are lucky enough to possess sour 
cream, cut down in each recipe 2 
tablespoonfuls butter to 1 cupful 
sour milk, else the mixture :will be 
too rich. 

Woodlawn Brown Bread. 

2 cupfuls sour milk, 
1 egg, 

3 cupfuls Gra^iam flour, 



1 teaspoonful soda, 
i cupful molasses, 
i teaspoonful salt. 

If the Graham flour is very coarse, 
sift it and throw away the bran. Add 
the salt, pour in the molasses, milk, 
beaten egg, and the soda dissolved in 
a little water. If you desire bread 
that is not very dark or sweet, use 3 
tablespoonfuls molasses and 1 tea- 
spoonfid sugar. Steam for two and a 
half-hours in pound baking-powder 
can. Give it three hours if steamed 
in a quart pail. 

Sunday-Korning Loaf. 

2 cupfuls Graham flour, 
1 cupful wheat flour, 

1 cupful Indian meal, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 cupful molasses, 

IJ teaspoonfuls soda, 

J cupful cold water, 

1 tablespoonful melted lard, 

1 cupful sour milk, 

1} cupfuls sweet milk. 

Sift the dry materials together, add 
the molasses, lard, soda melted in 
water, and milk. Beat thoroughly; 
pour into a buttered mold, and steam 
for three hours. This makes two me- 
dium-sized loaves. In New England 
these are called Sunday-Morning 
loaves, because they are generally 
made Saturday night and put in the 
oven for half an hour next morning 
to serve with the traditional baked 
beans. They keep for one or two 
weeks and may be heated for use at 
any time. 

Steamed Graham Loaf. 

3 cupfuls of Graham flour, 
1 cupful wheat flour, 

1 teaspoonful soda, 
I teaspoonful salt, 
1 cupful molasses, 
2i cupfuls sour milk. 

Sift dry ingredients, add molasses 
and milk, beat well and turn into a 
buttered mold. Steam three and a 
half hours. This mixture, cooked in 



36 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



pound baking-powder cans, will 
make four loaves, which can be re- 
heated when required. Place the can 
on a frame in a kettle containing 
boiling water. 

Whole-Wheat Muffins. 

1 cupful whole-wheat meal, 

1 cupful flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
i teaspoonful salt, 

f teaspoonful soda, 

IJ cupfuls sour milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 

1 egg. 

Sift the dry ingredients together, 
mix with the beaten egg, milk, and 
butter. Bake in hot gem pans. 

Spider Corn Cake. 

j cupful cornmeal, 

i cupful flour, 

1 tablespoonful sugar, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful soda, 

1 egg, 

J cupful sour milk, 

i cupful sweet milk. 

Sift the dry ingredients together 
and mix them with the well-beaten 
egg and milk. Beat thoroughly. 
Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter in an 
iron spider and pour the mixture into 
it. Pour J cupful sweet milk over 
the top of the batter and set it very 
carefully into a hot oven. Bake for 
twenty minutes. 

Bice or Hominy Oriddlecakes or 
Uuffins. 

1 cupful sour milk, 

1 cupful cold rice or fine hominy, 

J teaspoonful salt, 

I teaspoonful soda, 

1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful melted butter. 

Flour to make a batter. 

Heat the rice or hominy over hot 
water and moisten gradually with the 
milk till free from lumps. Add salt 
and soda, stir in the beaten egg yolk, 
then the melted butter, then flour to 



make a soft batter, lastly the white 
of egg beaten stiff. This is for grid- 
dlecakes. For muffins, use Hour 
enough to make a stiff batter. 

Corn Bread. 

2 cupfuls sour milk, 

3 eggs, 

2 cupfuls Indian meal (white), 
1 teaspoonful soda, 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Beat the eggs separately, sift the 
soda twice through the meal, and add 
the salt. Beat the ingredients well 
together, adding the whites last of 
all. Bake in a moderate oven in muf- 
fin rings, with a large spoonful of 
the batter to each, until golden 
brown. 

Batter Cakes. 

IJ teaspoonfuls soda, 

3 cupfuls sour milk, 

3 eggs, 

3J cupfuls flour. 

Beat thoroughly the soda with the 
sour milk. Beat the yolks of three 
eggs and add to the milk, then stir 
in the flour and a. little salt, making 
the batter of the consistency of cake. 
Then beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
fold in, and bake. 

Biscuits. 

1 quart flour, 

4 tablespoonfuls lard, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Sift the flour, add the lard, salt, 
sodaj and enough sour milk to make 
soft dough; roU thin, cut into bis- 
cuits, and bake in a very quick oven. 

Entire-Wheat Gems. 

2 cupfuls sour milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar, 
1 saltspoonful salt, 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Stir them all together, add suffi- 
cient flour to make a batter that will 
drop without spreading. Bake in 
gem pans. 



BAKING-POWDER BREADS 



37 



Spoon Biscuit. 

4 cupfuls sour milk, 

2 teaspoonfuls soda, 
1 saltspoonful salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

To the sour milk add the soda, salt, 
butter, and sifted flour to form a, 
batter that will drop from a spoon. 
Drop into a hot greased pan, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Sour-Milk Graham Bread. 

1 egg, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 

1 teaspoonful soda, 

2 cupfuls sour milk, 

IJ cupfuls Graham flour, 
IJ cupfuls white flour. 

Beat the egg with the sugar, put in 
the melted butter ;> dissolve the soda 
in 2 spoonfuls hot water, and add the 
sour mUk. Stir up with the flour 
and bake slowly one hour. 

Griddlecakes. 

1 pint sour milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

i teaspoonful salt, 
1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Mix thoroughly the flour, salt; and 
beaten eggs; add more flour if need- 
ed to make a good batter. Last of 
all add 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in 1 tablespoonful hot water. Bake at 
once on a hot griddle. 

Sour-Milk Doughnuts. 

2 cupfuls flour, 

I teaspoonful salt, 

1 scant teaspoonful soda, 

1 scant teaspoonful cream of 

tartar. 
Grating of nutmeg, 
J tablespoonful butter, 

1 egg. 

i cupful sugar, 

4 cupful sour milk. 

Sift together the dry ingredients, 
rub the butter into the flour with the 
finger tips, add the sugar, well-beat- 



en egg, and milk; beat thoroughly 
and toss the dough on a floured 
board. It ought to be a soft dough 
and it is not easy to handle. Use a 
knife in turning it over if you have 
any difficulty. Knead lightly and 
roll into a sheet. Cut the doughnuts 
with a ring cutter and fry in boiling 
fat, putting only about four in the 
kettle at once. If more are fried at 
a time, the fat wUl cool and the 
doughnuts become greasy. 



A WORD ABOUT BAKING POWDER 

Evert housekeeper should under- 
stand the nature of baking powder. 
This is important for two reasons: 
first, to insure palatable food, and, 
second, to avoii danger to health. A 
perfect baking powder is one that 
will produce the most leavening gas 
in the oven and the least residue in 
the stomach. It should be understood 
that baking powder is not a food of 
itself; its sole object is to make food 
light and sweet. Since this is true, 
the more it escapes into the air, after 
doing its leavening work in the 
oven, the better. The less residue 
left to be actually eaten, the bet- 
ter. Baking powders are usu- 
ally made from either cream of tar- 
tar or phosphate. Analysis has shown 
that the former leaves about seventy 
per cent of its own weight in Rochelle 
salts as a residue, and that phosphate 
leaves about thirty-five per cent of its 
own weight in phosphatic salts. Ro- 
chelle salts are the basic element of 
a Seidlitz powder. We have it upon 
no less an authority than the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture at Wash- 
ington, D. C, that " A loaf of bread 
made from a, quart of flour leavened 
with cream of tartar baking powder 
contains forty-five grains more of 
Rochelle salts than is contained in one 
Seidlitz powder." (See Bulletin No. 
13.) 

Dr. A. Warner Shepard, formerly 
Health Officer in Brooklyn, said: "I 
have not the slightest doubt that the 
mental and physical health of thou- 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



sands is pennanently injured by the 
excessive use of Rochelle salts in im- 
pure beer, bread, and other forms of 
food and drink. It is certainly a 
factor in the alarming increase of 
Bright's disease of the kidneys and 
similar complaints. It irritates the 
kidneys, bowels, and stomach, and 
may therefore produce most unfor- 
tunate results." 

Dr. Moreau Morris, of the New 
York Board of Health, says: " It may 
be that I am a little prejudiced, but 
I think I express the consensus of the 
medical profession when I say that 
Rochelle salts should never be used 
by a person except by a physician's 
advice. Its continued use induces 
a very unhealthy condition of the 
stomach, and especially of the bowels, 
and finally produces constipation of 
an aggravated type." 

Unfortunately, a great deal of mis- 
information has been disseminated by 
interested manufacturers, and it is 
said upon good authority that $500,- 
000 are now being spent every year 
to advertise the " pure " qualities of 
cream of tartar. 

As a matter of fact, much of the 
cream of tartar used in the manu- 
facture of baking powder is made 
from the dregs of wine vats, and the 
residue left after the chemical action 
in the processes of baking takes 
place is unhealthful. Phosphate not 
only leaves less residue after baking 
than cream of tartar (about one half 
as much), but phosphatic salts are 
comparatively harmless. 

Baking powder may be pure in the 
can and unwholesome in the bread. A 
reaction takes place in the process of 
baking, so that the substance left in 
the bread is entirely different from 
the material that entered the can, be- 
cause of chemical processes in the 
baking. The statement that a powder 
contains this or that substance may 
be misleading, for the reason that the 
consumer wants to know what goes 
into his stomach, and not what goes 
into the can. 

Brands of baking powder put up 
with the private firm name of a local 



merchant are usually found to be of 
inferior quality at least. The local 
dealer's name is generally injured by 
this custom, since his own reputation, 
not that of the manufacturer, goes 
behind the powder, and the merchant 
is usually not competent to judge the 
quality of the product. 

Then there are the prize-package 
baking powders. If sold at ten cents 
a pound, or if " twenty-five cents pays 
for twenty-five ounces," they wiU be 
found to be inferior, as the ingre- 
dients would cost as much (or more) 
at wholesale, even when bought in 
very large quantities. 

There are, in other words, two ex- 
tremes that should be avoided by the 
careful housewife: on the one hand, 
the so-called Trust-made goods, sold 
at double prices in order to pay the 
Trust dividends of some $10,000,000 
a year on a sale of something like 
10,000,000 pounds a year; and, on 
the other hand, the cheap prize- 
package powders just mentioned. 
The fact is that baking-powder 
ingredients of first quality may 
be purchased in the open market 
by anyone at, say, nineteen cents 
a pound, to make as good a. baking 
pgwder as anybody manufactures (if 
one only knew liow to mix them), 
and,- of course, a large manufacturer 
ought to be able to buy them cheaper. 
A first-class powder may be sold at 
a fair profit for about twenty-five 
cents a pound. It has been estimated 
that it costs one company something 
like thirty cents a pound to pay divi- 
dends ^ on many millions of watered 
stock and to sustain its business pol- 
icy before beginning to manufacture 
its powder. Obviously, the public 
must pay these huge biUs, and this 
fact would of itself account for the 
fifty-cents-a-pound price. 

A careful survey of the various 
brands before the public has led us 
to believe that the Calumet is a good 
example of an excellent baking pow- 
der from which this terrific tax upon 
the consumer has been shorn without 
the least sacrifice of quality. This 
brand, we learn, has been on the mar- 



BAKING-POWDER BREADS 39 

ket for years, with a standing offer of and because of our belief that it would 

$1,000 reward to anyone who can find have been claimed, if possible, and as it 

in the ingredients any substance which is sold at so fair a price, this powder 

would be injurious to health. That has been especially recommended in 

this reward has never been claimed, the recipes in Mrs. Curtis's Cookbook. 



CHAPTER IV 



STALE BREAD 



A CAREFin, housewife plans to keep 
in stock the smallest amount possible 
of stale bread, and of that stock not 
a morsel is consigned to the garbage 
pail. There is economy in adopting 
the English fashion of bread cut- 
ting, placing the loaf on a wooden 
trencher with a keen knife, and cut- 
ting at the table each slice as it is 
required. 

Look carefully to the stale-bread 
remains of each day. Keep a wire 
basket, set in a tin pan in the pantry, 
to receive all scraps left on plates, 
toast crusts, or morsels from the 
bread jar. Never put them in a cov- 
ered pail or jar; they will mold. 
Save all soft inside parts of a loaf to 
be used as soon as possible for crou- 
tons or croustades, slices or cubes for 
toast and toast points, and soft 
scraps for meat and fish dressings, 
puddings, omelets, scalloped dishes, 
griddlecakes, souffles, croquettes, and 
the numerous dishes for which stale 
bread may be utilized. 

For stuffing for poultry, fish, 
spareribs, veal, or game it is often 
possible to use dry " heels " and 
crusts by soaking and adding to them 
a portion of dry crumbs. The scraps 
which can be used in no other way 
may be saved for crumbing. When 
the basket becomes full, put the 
bread in a pan and set in a moderate 
oven with the door open. Never al- 
low these crusts to grow more than 
a golden brown. The browner 
crumbs are, which are used as a 
covering for croquettes, etc., the less 
frying they will stand. Before a 
croquette rolled in very brown 
crumbs is heated to the heart, it will 
appear almost burned. When the 



scraps of bread are thoroughly dry, 
roll them on a board or put through 
the meat chopper, using the finest 
knife. 

If there are children in the family 
who like " rusk," the old-fashioned 
New England name for browned 
crumbs sprinkled into cold milk, re- 
serve the coarser- crumbs for this 
purpose. Sift through a fine sieve, 
and the crumbs, no larger than corn- 
meal, may be put away to be used 
for crumbing purposes. Save the 
rusk in the same way, keeping it al- 
ways uncovered. If the air is not 
allowed free circulation into the can, 
the crumbs will spoU. When rusk is 
used, heat it slightly in the oven. Af- 
ter croquettes have been crumbed, 
scrape together aU the fine crumbs 
left on the board and sift, returning 
what is dry to the can. 

Bread crumbs are always prefer- 
able to cracker crumbs in covering 
anything which has been dipped in 
egg. Cracker crumbs do not brown 
well. In the recipes following, 
stale bread and crumbs are spoken 
of in a distinctive fashion. Dried 
bread crumbs are those which are 
rolled and sifted, suitable for crumb- 
ing, but not for use in puddings or 
scallops, for they would absorb too 
much moisture. Stale crumbs are 
made from odds and ends of stale 
bread, rubbed on a grater or crum- 
bled fine. They must be used at 
Once or they will mold. 

Stale bread that is broken and un- 
sightly can be used for brewis, bread 
puddings, or in scallops. Toast or 
steam aU that can possibly be used 
in such a way. Remove crusts before 
toastingi It makes a dish more 



40 



STALE BREAD 



41 



sightly, and the crusts can be dried 
for crumbs or worlsed into a dress- 
ing. Slices of bread too ragged to be 
toasted may be trimmed into dia- 
monds, fingers, oblongs, rounds, or 
triangles for canapes. Cut smaller 
pieces in dice, narrow strips, or 
squares for croutons. Fry forty sec- 
onds in hot fat, or butter lightly and 
brown in the oven. They are an 
attractive accompaniment for thick 
soups. 

Toast that will cut into Vandykes 
or long points can be utilized for 
surrounding dishes of spinach, Brus- 
sels sprouts, asparagus, or green 
vegetables served in a mold. Dishes 
au gratin will use any of the dry 
bread crumbs. Instead of dotting 
the crusts with morsels of butter, 
melt the butter in an omelet pan, 3 
tablespoonfuls butter to i cupful 
crumbs, and toss lightly with a fork 
till every morsel is buttered. Brewis, 
steamed bread, and toasts of a large 
variety are some of the changes to 
ring in the daily menu, and they can 
be made so appetizing that a family 
has no suspicion it is aiding to keep 
the bread jar in good condition. 



the side of the steamer or they will 
become water-soaked. Fit the steam- 
er tightly into the mouth of a kettle 
of boiling water. The bread will be 
ready in a few minutes. In taking 
it out, turn the lid over instantly to 
prevent water dripping on the bread. 
Butter each slice and arrange on a 
hot plate with a napkin over them. 
Stale biscuit or rolls may be steamed 
in the same fashion, or sprinkled 
with cold water and set for a few 
minutes into a hot oven. 



Toasted Sandwiches. 

Often after a picnic or entertain- 
ment a housewife has a number of 
bread-and-butter sandwiches left, too 
stale to serve. They may form the 
basis of a bread pudding or they 
make an attractive dish for break- 
fast, luncheon, or supper in the shape 
of toasted sandwiches. Do not take 
them apart, lay them between the 
wires of a toaster, and hold over a 
clear, red fire. The butter will melt 
and the inside be left soft, warm, 
and buttered, with the outside a crisp, 
golden brown. 



Browu-Bread Brewis. 

3 cupfuls stale brown bread, 
1 cupful stale- white bread, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
2i cupfuls milk. 

For this dish use the smallest odds 
and ends of the bread, crumbling the 
larger portions into inch pieces. Put 
the butter in a spider. Allow it to 
melt, but not brown, and put in the 
bread. Pour the milk over it and 
simmer, stirring occasionally to keep 
the bread from sticking to the pan. 
Season with a dash of salt and white 
pepper. Serve hot. 

Steamed Bread. 

Into the middle of a large steamer 
with a close-fitting lid set a cup or 
bowl inverted and around it arrange 
slices of stale bread you wish to 
steam. Do not allow them to touch 



Toast. 

Trim the crust from stale slices 
you wish to toast and move it care- 
fully over a clear, red fire for two 
minutes. Then turn it over and let 
all the moisture be drawn out of the 
bread. Butter and serve immediately. 
Toast may be utilized, especially for 
breakfast, in all sorts of ways. Plain 
toast is a favorite in most households; 
then there are milk toast, cream toast, 
dropped eggs on toast, water toast, 
and the excellent dish of bread 
soaked in egg and milk which has all 
sorts of names, French, Spanish, Grer- 
man, and Scotch toast, but more 
properly egged toast. At the lunch- 
eon and dinner table toast appears 
in all forms — under chicken and with 
such vegetables as asparagus and 
spinach; under minced meats, fri- 
cassees, and creamed mixtures, or in 
the delicate canape. 



43 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Spider Browned Toast. 

Take several slices of stale bread 
cut rather thick, cut off the crust 
and butter them on both sides. Lay 
them in a dry, hot spider over a 
rather slow iire and cover with a 
tight lid. When one side has browned 
delicately, turn and brown the other. 
They will be crisp outside, yet soft 
inside. 

Sandwiches in Cream Sauce. 

Sandwiches left over are not usu- 
ally inviting, but they may be made 
so by this method. Toast them deli- 
cately in the oven, and to every four 
sandwiches made from chicken, veal, 
or tongue makes a white sauce with 1 
tablespoonful flour, J teaspoonful salt, 
a dash of pepper, and I cupful milk 
cooked until thick. Then add the 
yolk of 1 egg, well beaten. Pour this 
over the sandwiches and serve at 



White-Bread Brewis. 

Heat a pint of milk in a double 
boiler. Stir into it enough bits of 
stale wheat bread to absorb all the 
milk. Season with a little butter and 
salt. It should not be pasty or slop- 
py, but should be a light, dry por- 
ridge. It is a favorite with children, 
especially if served on a small, pretty 
saucer and dotted with bits of bright 
jelly. Serve hot. 

Bread-Crumb Buckwheat Cakes. 
I cupful stale bread crumbs, 
3 cupfuls milk, 
I teaspoonful salt, 
i cake yeast, 

J cupfuls buckwheat flour, 
1 tablespoonful molasses, 
J teaspoonful soda. 

Scald the milk and soak the crumbs 
for half an hour. Add the salt, yeast, 
and buckwheat flour, and let it 
stand over night. In the morning 
stir in the molasses and soda melted 
in a spoonful of warm water. Beat 
briskly for a few minutes and bake 
on a hot, greased griddle. 



Brown-Bread Cream Toast with 
Cheese. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoopful flour, 
1 cupful milk, 
I cupful grated cheese, 

1 cupful cheese. 

Make a white sauce from the milk, 
butter, and flour; when it boils, add 
the grated cheese and weU-beaten 
egg. Cook slowly until mixed, then 
add a cupful of cheese, cut into small 
cubes. Season with salt and cayenne, 
and pour over slices of toasted brown 
bread. 

Fried Bread. 

3 slices stale bread, 

1 egg, 

6 tablespoonfuls milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls oil (olive). 

Cut the bread into fingers three 
inches wide and the length of the 
slice. Beat the egg slightly, add the 
milk. Dip the bread in the mixture. 
Put the oil in a spider and allow it to 
grow hot. Drop the bread in and 
saut6 tUl brown. Drain on soft pa- 
per. Arrange log-cabin fashion, and 
serve with a sweet liquid sauce or 
maple sirup. 

XCilk Toast. 

6 slices stale bread, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Dry the bread thoroughly in the 
oven, then toast over a clear fire to a 
golden brown. Heat the milk in the 
double boiler, add the butter, and 
when scalding hot, the cornstarch 
moistened in cold milk. It ought to 
be like a milk sauce. Lay the toast 
on a hot platter and baste each slice 
with the sauce. Serve very hot. 

Brown-Bread Saute. 

Cut the crusts off around slices of 
Boston brown bread with a large 



STALE BREAD 



43 



cooky cutter. Fry bacon in a spider 
and put it on a hot platter when 
crisp. Then lay the bread in the 
bacon fat, and saut^ on both sides. 
Serve a crisp curled slice of bacon on 
each brown round. 

Tomato Toast. 

14 cupfuls strained tomato, 

i cupful scalded milk, 

i teaspoonful soda, 

3 tablespoon fuls butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

6 slices toast. 

Make a tomato sauce from the but- 
ter, flour, and tomato, add the soda 
and salt, then the milk. Dip the 
toast in the sauce. Serve hot. 

Bread Grlddlecakes. * 

IJ cupfuls scalded milk, 
IJ cupfuls stale bread crumbs, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 eggs, 

i cupful flour, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
3J teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Pour the hot milk and the melted 
butter over the crumbs and soak un- 
til they are soft. Add the well-beat- 
en eggs, flour, salt, and baking pow- 
der. Cook on a griddle like cakes. 

Bread Roulettes. 

1 cupful stale bread crumbs, 
J cupful milk, 
1 egg. 
Dash salt. 

Soak the bread crumbs in the milk. 
Mix with the egg and seasonings. 
Form into tiny balls, flour, egg, 
crumb, and fry in hot fat. 



Bread Sauce. 

4 cupful stale bread crumbs, 
14 cupfuls scalded milk, 

1 tablespoonfjil butter. 
Pepper and salt, 

4 cupful browned crumbs. 

Pour the hot milk over the stale 
crumbs and cook in a double boiler 
for twenty minutes. Add the butter, 
pepper, and salt. Put 1 tablespooii- 
f ul butter in an omelet pan and in it 
brown 4 cupful dry crumbs. Pour 
the sauce about game, timbales, or 
anything you wish to serve with it, 
and on top sprinkle browned hot 
crumbs. 

Bread Croquettes. 

2 cupfuls stale bread crumbs, 

1 cupful hot milk. 
Grated rind 1 lemon, 
4 cupful currants, 

4 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Yolks 2 eggs. 

Boil the bread crumbs for two 
minutes in the hot milk. Add the 
lemon, currants, cinnamon, and re- 
move from the fire. Beat in the 
yolks of the eggs. Cool, form into 
croquettes, crumb, and fry in hot 
fat. 

Beignets of Buns. 

2 stale buns, 
1 egg, 

4 gill milk, 

IJ tablespoonfuls flour. 

Dash salt. 

Soak the buns five minutes in the 
milk. Mix the yolk of the egg with 
milk, add the flour, salt, and beaten 
white. Dip the buns into batter, fry 
in half lard and half butter, light 
brown on both sides. Dust with sug- 
ar, and serve with jelly or preserved 
fruit. 



CHAPTER V 



SANDWICHES 



The old-fashioned sandwich — two 
thick wedges of bread, erratically 
buttered, hard of crust, exuding mus- 
tard, and with frills of ham or corned 
beef about the edge — ^has been rele- 
gated to the past by the arrival of 
the meat chopper. The sandwiches of 
the past were of a, half-dozen va- 
rieties; the iilling of a modern sand- 
wich is limited only by what you 
have on hand. Fish, flesh, fowl, vege- 
tables, eggs, nuts, olives, fruit, 
cheese, and pickles may be utilized 
alone, or combined, (ind the result, 
when prepared by a skillful cook, is 
a dainty and delicious morsel. 

If many sandwiches are required, 
as for a reception or picnic, bake the 
bread specially for them; there is less 
waste and the work is much easier. 
Keep on hand plenty of baking-pow- 
der cans, pound and half-pound sizes, 
also a few oblong tins which have 
held one pound of cocoa. Nothing 
can excel these as molds for baking 
bread for picnic sandwiches; it is 
tender, almost crustless, it needs no 
trimming to make two slices accord 
in size, and it bakes or steams much 
more quickly than in larger tins. 
Make the bread twenty-four hours 
before it is required and try to have 
it fine grained. Fill the cans half 
full of dough and set to raise. When 
almost at the top of the tins, put to 
bake with the lids off. Fill three 
quarters full of brown-bread mix- 
ture; it does not raise so much as 
bread which has yeast in it. Slip the 
small loaves out of the tins as soon 
as taken from the oven or steamer 
and set on a. wire stand to cool; then 
wrap in towels and put away in the 
bread box until required. 



The next consideration is butter. 
Put a pound of butter (if you have 
many sandwiches to make) in a mix- 
ing bowl and vrith a slitted wooden 
spoon beat it to a fine, light cream, 
exactly as for cake making. The but- 
ter is much easier to spread, it is 
more economical, then it is ready to 
divide into portions and blend with 
anything to make what is called a 
.flavored butter, the most delicious of 
all fillings. 

Before preparing sandwiches, if 
they are to be used at a luncheon or 
entertainment where other dishes ac- 
company them, be careful that the 
flavoring is different from the salad 
with which they are served. It is 
really in better taste to offer nothing 
with a salad or cold meat except 
plain bread and butter; still, fash- 
ion seems to demand a. flavored nib- 
ble as a salad accompaniment. Fish, 
lobster, or shrimp salads are most 
appetizing with sandwiches of Boston 
brown bread holding a tender lettuce 
leaf or a sprig of watercress dipped 
in mayonnaise. Serve sandwiches of 
mild cheese, flavored by mustard or 
tarragon, with green salads. White- 
bread sandwiches holding tender 
young nasturtium leaves between the 
buttered folds go well with salads 
of meat or fish. Garnish a plateful 
of this variety with a few nastur- 
tium leaves and blossoms. Finely 
cut peppergrass, chives, endive or 
celery are all fitting accompani- 
ments to sandwiches which are of- 
fered with a meat or chicken sal- 
ad. Cucumbers and tomatoes thinly 
sliced and spread with mayonnaise 
make a delicious bite between but- 
tered bread. Cut with a small cooky 



44 



SANDWICHES 



45 



cutter rounds of bread slightly larger 
than a slice of tomato or cucumber, 
and put the vegetable between them. 
These, as well as herb sandwiches, 
must not be made until immediately 
before serving. 

Cheese, which is generally the first 
course in a sandwich menu, may be 
spread between folds of white, Gra- 
ham, or entire-wheat bread, or deli- 
cate crackers. Roquefort, fromage 
de Brie, or any of the stronger 
cheeses should be flavored with fine- 
ly chopped olives or parsley and 
creamed butter. Combine with a 
milder cheese chopped olives, wal- 
nut meats, anchovy essence, and a 
dash of mustard, Mcllhenny's Ta- 
basco Sauce, and salt. Grate hard 
cheese and mash soft cheese with a 
spoon, afterwards rub to a paste 
with mayonnaise or butter and flav- 
oring. The delicious little cream or 
Neufchatel cheeses may be blended 
with chopped walnuts, given a bit of 
seasoning by Parmesan cheese, also 
a hint of lemon juice and paprika. 

Under the head of ^avory sand- 
wiches is a long list of possibilities. 
They include meat, fish, egg, as well 
as fillings obtained from chopped 
olives and pickles, or some strong 
seasoning, curry, caviare, or anchovy. 
For all sorts of meat, use a chopper, 
grinding with the finest knife. It 
provides a paste which, blended with 
mayonnaise, is as easy to spread on 
bread as butter. Scores of recipes 
might be offered to direct this blend- 
ing process, but the clever cook, with 
her own palate as criterion, can eas- 
ily adapt a few suggestions to the 
materials on hand. Chicken com- 
bines well with celery, chopped nuts, 
and olives. The most delicate chick- 
en sandwich is seasoned with celery 
salt and moistened with thick whipped 
cream instead of mayonnaise. Ham 
paste is blended with mayonnaise, 
mustard, chopped olives, and gher- 
kins. Veal paste may be seasoned 
like chicken — ^indeed one can scarcely 
tell the difference between the two fill- 
ings. Roast beef, corn beef, lamb, and 
poultry paste make good sandwiches. 



If you have not enough of one meat, 
add to it another which harmonizes in 
flavor; for instance, veal goes well 
with any sort of poultry, while tongue 
and ham make a good mixture. 
If remains of roast beef, lamb, or 
corn beef are small, chop and blend 
each separately; nothing seems to as- 
similate well with red-blooded meats. 
Use mustard, a few drops of. onion 
extract, and chopped pickles as flav- 
oring. They are better moistened 
with creamed butter than with may- 
onnaise. Put lobster, shrimp, or crab 
meat through the chopper. Cold fish 
or canned salmon is better delicately 




o, French Coffeepot; b. Filter Coffeepot; 
c. Everyday Pot for Boiled Coffee. 



picked to flakes with a fork. Sar- 
dines, anchovies, and salt fish make 
tasty picnic sandwiches. Pound to a 
paste, and give a touch of acidity by 
lemon juice or chopped pickle. Eggs 
should be hard-boiled; allow to be- 
come thoroughly cold, then put 
through a chopper, mix with mayon- 
naise or butter, and season well. 

When one comes to sweet sand- 
wiches, the variety is almost unlim- 
ited. Figs, dates, prunes, raisins, 
nuts, preserved ginger, and candied 
peel may be chopped, sweetened, 
moistened with whipped cream, lem- 
on, orange, or pineapple juice and 
spread between folds of white bread. 
When preparing them for an enter- 
tainment cut heart, diamond, or club 
shaped, and on top of each lay some- 
thing which suggests the filling — an 
English walnut meat, a shred of 



46 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



green citron peel, or half a Maras- 
chino cherry, dipped in icing to 
make them stick. When you wish to 
roll sandwiches, use fresh bread, 
spread very lightly with the filling, 
and pin into shape with a toothpick. 
It is easy to keep sandwiches fresh 
some hours before they are required. 
Wring a napkin as dry as possible 
from hot water — a good plan is to 
put it through the wringer — ^wrap 
the sandwiches in it, then cover in a 
stone jar or something which will 
exclude air. 

Lamb Sandwiches. 

Mince cold roast lamb, season with 
salt, pepper, and a dash of Mcll- 
henny's Tabasco Sauce. Add minced 
olives and a chopped pimento, then 
make into a paste with mayonnaise 
dressing. Spread between slices of 
white bread. 

Sweetbread Sandwiches. 

Cut cold boiled sweetbreads in a 
meat chopper, moisten with whipped 
cream, season with, salt, cayenne, and 
lemon juice. Spread between thin 
slices of buttered bread. 

Hot-Ham Sandwiches. 

Butter thin slices of bread. Broil 
thin slices of ham, put between slices 
of white bread, and eat hot. Bacon 
may be served in the same fashion. 

Chicken and Celery Sandwiches. 
1 cupful cold chicken, 
1 cupful celery, 
4 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise. 

Put chicken through the finest 
knife of a, meat chopper, add celery 
cut fine and mayonnaise. Butter 
white bread and spread with the 
ehicken mixture. 

Tongue Sandwiches. 

Make a dressing of one part mus- 
tard and six parts butter, add saltv 
pepper, and a dash of Mcllhenny's 
Tabasco Sauce. Butter the bread 
with this mixture and lay between 
thin slices of cold tongue. 



Oak-Hill Sandwiches. 
J cupful butter, 
1 cupful finely chopped cold 

boiled ham, 
1 cupful cold chicken. 
Dash of salt and paprika. 

Cream butter, add ham and chick- 
en, then salt and paprika. Spread 
the mixture between thin slices of 
white bread. 

Kare-Beef Sandwiches. 

Chop rare cold roast beef fine. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper, a dash of 
horse-radish, and a few drops of Mc- 
llhenny's Tabasco Sauce, Make into 
sandwiches with thinly sliced Graham 
bread. 

Club Sandwich. 

Toast a slice of bread and butter 
it. On one half put, first, a thin 
slice of bacon which has been broiled 
till dry and tender, next a slice of the 
white meat of either turkey or 
chicken. Over one half of this place 
a circle cut from a ripe tomato and 
over the other half a tender leaf of 
lettuce. Cover with a generous layer 
of mayonnaise, and complete this de- 
licious " wholemeal " sandwich with 
the remaining piece of toast. — A. W. 

lobster Sandwiches. 

Blend with the chopped lobster 
meat a dash of Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce, lemon juice, salt, pepper, and 
oil. Spread the mixture between 
slices of thinly buttered bread. 

Crab Sandwich. 

1 hard-boiled egg, 

!• tablespoonful softened butter, 

i can deviled crab, 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 

Moisten the sifted yolk of egg 
with butter, add chopped crab, and 
lemon juice mixed to a paste. Spread 
it between thin slices of buttered 
bread, put two together, press with a 
bread knife, and cut into fingers, tri- 
angles, or small squares. 



SANDWICHES 



47 



Salmon Sandwiches. 

1 can salmon. 

Yolks 6 hard-boiled eggs. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce, 

3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 

2 tablespoonfuls parsley, 

i cupful boiled salad dressing, 
i teaspoonful salt. 

Drain the oil from salmon, remove 
the skin and bones, and mash fish 
fine. Add eggs, press through pota- 
to ricer, then salt, lemon juice, 
chopped parsley. Tabasco, and salad 
dressing. Spread between folds of 
white or entire-wheat bread. 

Mock-Crab Sandwiches. 
J cupful grated cheese, 

4 tablespoonfuls creamed butter, 
J teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful paprika, 
i teaspoonful mustard, 
1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 

1 teaspoonful vinegar, 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped olives. 

To cheese add butter, salt, paprika, 
mustard, paste, vinegar, and chopped 
olives. Spread between rounds of 
white bread. — Stella A. Dowifiifo. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

i cupful grated cheese, 
i cupful Roquefort cheese, 
4 cupful cream, 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce. 

To the. grated cheese add Roque- 
fort cheese rubbed to a paste; add 
sauce and cream. Beat till smooth 
and spread between slices of Graham 
bread. 

Walnut-and-Cheese Sandwiches, 
J cupful walnut meats, 
i cupful Neufchatel cheese. 
Dash pepper and salt. 

Chop walnuts fine and mix with 
cheese; add pepper and salt. Spread 
between slices of white bread. If 
desired, this sandwich may be further 



improved by putting between the 
folds a crisp lettuce leaf. 

Anchovy-Cheese Sandwich. 
1 cottage cheese, 
1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 

1 teaspoonful paprika, 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped par- 
sley. 

To the cheese add anchovy essence, 
paprika, and parsley. Spread be- 
tween slices of entire-wheat bread, 

Boston Sandwiches. 

Slice Boston brown bread thin, 
butter lightly, and spread with 
Neufchatel or cottage cheese. Dip 
crisp lettuce leaves in French dress- 
ing, then lay on the brown bread. 
Press another slice of buttered brown 
bread on top, 

Cheese-and-Olive Sandwiches. 

Work a cream cheese until smooth 
and creamy; add half the quantity of 
olives finely chopped; moisten with 
mayonnaise dressing. The mixture 
may be slightly moistened with cream 
and seasoned with salt and cayenne. 
Spread between crackers. 

Walnut Sandwiches. 

Blanch and chop English walnuts. 
To each tablespoonful of nuts allow 
i tablespoonful cream cheese. Beat 
together and spread between thin 
slices of Graham bread. 

Peanut Sandwiches. 

Skin freshly roasted peanuts and 
reduce them to a powder in a meat 
chopper. Add salt, and mix the 
crushed nuts with fresh cream cheese. 
Spread the paste between slices of 
unbuttered Graham bread, 

Water-Cress Sandwiches. 

Chop cress coarsely and season 
with salt, pepper, and a few drops 
of vinegar. Blend with cottage 
cheese and spread between slices of 
white bread. 



48 



MRS. CURTIS'S , COOKBOOK 



Tomato Sandwiches. 

Slice Graham or whole-wheat 
bread thin, pare off the crust, butter 
on one side, spread with minced ripe 
tomatoes, drain off superfluous juice, 
and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and 
sugar. Serve at once. The tomatoes 
should be ice cold and minced quick- 
ly. — Mahiou Habland. 

Onion Sandwiches. 

Cut bread very thin, removing the 
crust. Spread between each slice 
Bermuda or Spanish onions, chopped 
fine and mixed with a mayonnaise 
dressing. 



Cucumber Sandwiches. 

Chop 2 cucumbers fine, drain off 
the liquor, add a little onion juice, a 
dash of red pepper, and mix with a 
well-seasoned mayonnaise. Spread 
between white bread. 



Pimento Sandwiches. 

Cut bread thin, spread sparingly 
with thick mayonnaise dressing. Place 
on it a, slice of scarlet pimento, then 
more salad dressing, and cover with 
the upper piece of bread. Serve 
with a leaf of lettuce. Trim neatly 
either round, long, or square, cutting 
through lettuce and all. 



CHAPTER VI 



CEREALS AND FLOUR PASTE 



Ceheals include the grain foods 
from cultivated grasses, containing 
every variety from oatmeal to maca- 
roni, which is a paste made of wheat 
flour rich in gluten. Among them 
are most valuable foods — rice, for in- 
stance, which is the staff of life for 
certain nations. In what we call 
breakfast cereals we have a number 
of foods that are unusually rich in 
nitrogenous matter and mineral sub- 
stances, therefore making an excellent 
morning meal with no further addi- 
tion than milk or cream, for all ce- 
reals are lacking in fat. Unless 
cereals can be subjected to the long, 
slow cooking which is necessary, 
they had better not be eaten, for 
nothing is so indigestible as half-raw 
oatmeal. Twenty years ago, when 
most of our oatmeal was the old- 
fashioned steel-cut oats, it needed in- 
terminable cooking — ^ten hours was 
none too long for it; to-day most of 
the cereals put up in packages, so 
the directions say, can be cooked in 
half an hour. That is not possible; 
few of them, except the fine-grained 
wheat foods, are fit to eat till they 
have had at least one hour's cooking 
in a double boiler. If they can have 
longer, they are so much the better. 
Always add the proper amount of 
salt to a cereal — 1 teaspoonful to a 
quart of water — and let it dissolve 
before the grains are put in, so it 
will flavor the whole mass. The best 
way to cook any rough-grained ce- 
real is to drop it slowly into water 
which is boiling briskly in the upper 
part of a double boiler. After cook- 
ing for a few minutes on the stove, 
set it over the water and allow the 
grains to swell slowly so the food is 



stiff enough to be chewed. Cornmeal 
demands a long time for cooking — 
at least six hours — and it swells so it 
should have six times the same meas- 
urement of water. Granular cereals, 
farina, for instance, should be mixed 
with a little cold water and stirred 
smooth before being added to the nec- 
essary amount of boiling water; this 
prevents it from becoming lumpy. 
Never stir any cereal after it has 
been put to cook, until just before it 
is turned out. This treatment makes 
oatmeal pasty and sticky. Store ce- 
reals in glass cans with tight-fitting 
lids instead of the pasteboard boxes 
in which they are sold. It keeps them 
fresher and safe from the invasion of 
moths or mice. 

Cereal with Fruit. 

i cupful wheat germ, 
i cupful cold water, 
3 cupfuls boiling water, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
i pound datete, stoped and cut in 
pieces. 

Mix cereal, salt, and cold water; 
add to boiling water in a saucepan. 
Boil five minutes, steam in double 
boiler thirty minutes; stir in dates, 
and serve with cream. Serve for 
breakfast or as a simple dessert. — 
Fannie M. Faemee. 



Hasty Pudding. 

1 cupful cornmeal, 
3" tablespoonfuls flour, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 cupful milk, 
3 cupfuls boiling water. 



49 



50 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Mix the meal, flour, and salt with 
the milk; when smooth, stir in the 
boiling water. Cook in a double 
boiler one hour or more; or over di- 
rect heat one half hour. Serve with 
cream and sugar, or turn into tins to 
cool if wanted for saut^ing. Cut into 
slices, dip in flour, and saut£ in drip- 
pings or butter. 

Hominy Hush. 

i cupful fine hominy, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

3 cupfuls boiling water. 

Put all together in a double boiler, 
and cook three hours. Add more 
water if mush seems stiff; all prep- 
arations of corn absorb a great deal 
of water in cooking, and hominy usu- 
ally needs a little more than four 
times its bulk. 

Oatmeal Porridge. 

1 cupful granulated oatmeal, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 scant quart boiling water. 

Put the oatmeal and salt in a dou- 
ble boiler, pour on the boiling water, 
and cook three or four hours. Re- 
move the cover just before serving 
and stir with a fork to let the steam 
escape. If the water in the boiler be 
strongly salted, the oatmeal will cook 
more quickly. 

Boiled Oats. 

1 cupful rolled oats, 

2§ cupfuls boiling water,,', 

J teaspoonful salt. ' 

Mix ingredients, and cook in dou- 
ble boiler one hour. 

Steamed Bice. 
1 cupful rice, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
3 cupfuls boiliog water. 

Pick over the rice and wash in 
three or four waters. Put it' with 
the salt and boiling water in upper 
part of double boiler. Cook over 
boiling water. Do not stir while 



cooking, 
tender. 



Steam until the grains are 



Boiled Bice. 

J cupful rice, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

4 cupfuls boiling water. 

Wash rice thoroughly and gradu- 
ally add to boiling water, care being 
taken that the water does not stop 
boiling. Cover and cook twenty min- 
utes, or until grains are soft. Turn 
int» a strainer and drain, put in oven 
a few moments to dry, with oven door 
open. 

Turkish Filaf. 

i cupful rice, 

f cupful tomatoes, stewed and 
strained, 

1 cupful brown stock, lightly sea- 
soned, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Add tomato to stock, and heat to 
boiling point; add rice, and steam till 
soft; stir in butter with a fork, and 
keep uncovered that steam may es- 
cape. Serve in place of a vegetable, 
or as a border for curried or fricas- 
seed meat. — Fannie M. Fabmeb. 

Bice Timbales. 
1 cupful rice, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
1 egg, 
1 teaspoonful butter. 

Place the rice in a double boiler 
over the fire, cover ■with cold water, 
boil five minutes, then drain it on a 
sieve, rinse off with cold water, re- 
turn to saucepan again, cover with i 
pint water, add the salt and boil 
till tender; add the egg and butter to 
the mixture, fill the rice in small tim- 
bale forms, set them in a pan of 
water so the water reaches halfway 
up the forms, place the pan in a hot 
oven, and bake ten minutes. Unmold 
and set the timbales in a circle. 

Bice a la Creole (Southern recipe). 
1 onion, 
1 slice cooked ham, 



CEREALS AND FLOUR PASTE 



51 



1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 cupful cooked rice, 
1 can tomatoes, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
Dash of Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce. 

Chop the onion and ham fine; put 
in a saucepan with the butter; add 
the Tice and tomatoes, salt, and pap- 
rika. Mix and heat thoroughly. Then 
put in a baking dish, cover with 
bread crumbs, and put in the oven 
for fifteen minutes. The tomatoes 
should be stewed until thick before 
mixing. 

Manana Land (Mexican recipe). 
1 tablespoonful olive oil, 
1 sliced onion, 
8 green peppers, 
1 cupful uncooked rice, 
i can tomatoes. 

Fry in the olive oil the onion and 
green peppers, chopped fine; to this 
add the imcooked rice, and stir con- 
stantly until the rice is nicely 
browned; then put in the tomatoes, 
fill up the skillet with rich soup 
stock, and cook slowly, without stir- 
ring for an hour. — ^Mat E. Soitth- 

WORTH. 

Sice Milanaise 7ashlon. 
1 cupful rice, 
S tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 onion, 
1 quart stock, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
S tablespoonfuls butter, 
J cupful grated cheese. 

Cook the rice in a quart of cold 
water, stir until tim.'beiling point is 
reached, and let boil--tfiree or four 
minutes, then drain and rinse in cold 
water and turn on a cloth to dry for 
a few minutes. Put the butter into 
a stewpan; cook in it until softened 
and slightly yellowed, a slice of onion 
chopped fine; then add the rice and 
stock and salt; cook until the rice is 
tender and the liquid absorbed; add 
the butter and grated cheese. Lift 
the rice with two forks to mix the 



butter and cheese evenly. Vary the 
dish occasionally by adding a cup of 
strained tomato with the broth and 
two tablespoonfuls chopped green 
pepper with onion. 

Spaghetti a la Italien (Neapolitan 
recipe). 

i cupful dried mushrooms, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 onion, 
1 clove garlic, 

1 pound chuck steak, 

2 slices bacon, 

1 cupful tomatoes. 

Salt, 

Paprika, 

Pepper, 

1 package spaghetti. 

Soak the mushrooms in a cup of 
tepid water for fifteen minutes; put 
the butter into a frying pan; when 
melted, add the onion and garlic, cut 
fine. Let this cook to a straw color, 
then add the meat and bacon, cut 
into finger lengths. Let this cook 
about five minutes, add the tomatoes 
and simmer slowly for about fifteen 
minutes. Then add the mushrooms, 
together with the water in which 
they have been soaked. Season very 
lightly with salt, pepper, and pap- 
rika. Let this simmer slowly for 
an hour ^nd a half. During this 
time cook the spaghetti in about 2 
quarts boiling water to which 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls salt have been added. 
Cook twenty minutes, then pour in a 
colander and blanch with . warm 
water. When the sauce has cooked 
sufficiently, take a large platter, 
spread half of the spaghetti upon it, 
and pour over it some of the sauce. 
Now sprinkle upon this grated cjieese. 
Add the remainder of the spaghetti, 
finish with sauce and cheese, and 
serve. 

Macaroni ^toiliana (Italian recipe). 
1 onion, 
1 carrot, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 

3 pounds beef, 

1 quart tomatoes. 



52 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Bay leaf, 

3 cloves, 

1 pound macaroni, 

1 pound grated Swiss cheese. 

Slice very thin the onion and car- 
rot; put in a pot with the butter and 
let it fry, then put in the beef that 
has been cut in thick slices. Stir un- 
til it has browned nicely, add the to- 
matoes, bay leaf, cloves, salt, and 
peppers to taste. Stew slowly for two 
hours or more, till the sauce gets 
thick. Strain through a sieve until 
the sauce is free from the meat. 
Take the macaroni and boil for 
twenty minutes, salt to taste. Drain 
off the water, and put it in a large, 
deep dish; pour over it the sauce and 
put in grated cheese. Mix all thor- 
oughly, and serve hot. 

Macaroni Ravioli (Italian recipe), 
i package macaroni, 
i Parmesan cheese, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

13 chicken livers (parboil), 

2 stalks celery, 

1 onion, 

i carrot, 

§ turnip. 

Pepper and salt. 

Mince the livers and vegetables 
fine, and put them in a saucepan to 
cook in a little butter. Blanch the 
macaroni; add pepper and salt and 
let it drain. Lay some macaroni in 
a baking dish, then a layer of the 
liver and vegetables, then the cheese, 
and so on till the dish is full enough. 
End with a layer of cheese. Set the 
dish in the oven and let it cook for 
a few minutes. Brown on top and 
serve very hot. 

UacaTOui a la ITapolitalue (Italian 
recipe). 

1 pound macaroni, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 onion, 

4 tablespoonfuls gra,ted Parme- 
san cheese, 

Pepper and salt, 
1 cupful cream. 



Put the macaroni into boiling 
water, add butter, salt, and onion 
stuck with cloves. Boil for three 
quarters of an hour; then drain the 
macaroni and put into a saucepan 
with cheese, nutmeg, salt, and cream. 
Let stew gently a few minutes, and 
serve very hot. 

Macaroni with Tomatoes. 

Break half a pound of macaroni 
into inch lengths and boil in salted 
water until tender. Drain, and put 
a layer of the macaroni in the bot- 
tom of a greased pudding dish, 
sprinkle with pepper, salt, onion 
juice, and grated cheese. Cover all 
with a layer of stewed and strained 
tomatoes that have been previously 
seasoned to taste. On these goes an- 
other layer of macaroni, and so on till 
the dish is full. The topmost layer 
must be of tomatoes sprinkled witli 
crumbs and good-sized bits of but- 
ter. Set in hot oven, covered, for 
twenty minutes, then bake, uncov- 
ered, until the crumbs are brown. — 
Marioit Harland. 

Spaghetti with Cheese. 
i pound spaghetti, 
i cupful Swiss cheese, 
3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
Dash Mcllhenny's T a b a s co 
Sauce. 

Break the spaghetti into bits and 
boil in salted water. Grate the 
cheese and turn into a saucepan 
with the butter. Stir well, add the 
hot spaghetti; just long enough to 
melt the cheese; add tabasco, and 
serve very hot. 

Spaghetti with Chicken. 

J package spaghetti, 

3 cupfuls chicken stock, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 cupful cold chicken, 

1 egg- 
Boil the spaghetti until tender; 
drain, drop in cold water, and drain 
again. Cut into half-inch pieces. 



CEREALS AND FLOUR PASTE 



53 



Thicken the stock with flour and but- 
ter. Stir in the chicken chopped fine 
and macaroni. Beat in the egg, 
whipped, remove from the fire, sea- 
son to taste, turn into a buttered 
dish, sprinkle crumbs over the top, 
and bake half an hour. 



cooked down, add the stock. Boil 
the macaroni until tender, then 
plunge in cold water to blanch. 
Place on a large platter, strain the 
hot sauce over it, and cover the top 
with grated cheese. — May E. South- 

WOBTH. 



Spaghetti Piquante. 
i pound spaghetti, 
1 teaspoonful butter, 
1 teaspoonful flour, 

3 cupfuls beef stock, 

4 tablespoonfuls tomato catsup, 
6 drops Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce, 

1 teaspoonful kitchen bouquet, 
Pinch salt. 

Dash paprika. 

Break spaghetti into small bits. 
Boil until tender, in salted water. 
Drain and keep hot while you make 
the following sauce: Cook together 
the butter and flour; when blended 
pour the stock and stir until smooth, 
then add the catsup, tabasco, kitch- 
en bouquet, salt, and paprika. Turn 
the spaghetti into this sauce, stir 
and pour the mixture into a dish. 
Sprinkle buttered crumbs and grated 
cheese over the top, and bake till 
brown. 

Entrades (Mexican recipe). 
i cupful olive oil, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 green onions, 
1 spray parsley, 
1 stalk celery, 

1 leek, 

J garlic, 

1 green pepper, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful Spanish sausage, 

J cupful stock, 

I package macaroni, 

Edam cheese. 

Make a sauce of olive oil and but- 
ter heated together; in this fry the 
onion, parsley, celery, leek, garlic, 
pepper, all chopped fine. Season with 
salt and the sausage. After it is well 



Baked Uacaroni. 

i pound macaroni, 

1 quart stoclc, 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Break the macaroni into inch 
lengths. Boil till tender in stock. 
Drain, put the macaroni In a dish; 
pour over it J cupful stock in which 
it was cooked, add the butter, in 
small pieces, here and there through 
it. Sift over it fine bread crumbs 
and grated cheese. Dot with bits of 
butter and brown. 



Oatmeal. 

i teaspoonful salt, 
1 cupful oatmeal, 
4 cupfuls water. 

Put the boiling water in a granite 
pan, salt it, then scatter in the oat- 
meal. Allow it to cook six minutes, 
stirring steadily. Into the fireless 
cooker saucepan set the oatmeal dish, 
cover with a plate, and pour in boil- 
ing water to surround it till it al- 
most reaches the top of dish. Cover, 
set on the stove and let the water 
boil five minutes, then place in the 
fireless cooker and leave there for 
five hours, or if required for break- 
fast, till morning. If it is not quite 
hot enough, set the cooker saucepan 
on the stove and let the water in the 
other vessel boil for a few minutes; 
then serve. 



Quaker Oats. 

2J cupfuls boiling water, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 cupful Quaker oats. 

Cook in exactly the same way as 
oatmeal. 



54 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Cream of Wheat. 
2J cupfuls water, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
i cupful cream of wheat. 

Prepare after the same fashion as 
oatmeal, and give four hours in the 
fireless cooker. 

Cracked Wheat. 

4 cupfuls cold water, 
1 cupful cracked wheat, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Pour the cold water over the 
wheat and let it stand six hours. Put 
it in a granite pan as used for 
oatmeal and set it on an asbestos mat 
over the fire, allowing it to cook and 
swell for two hours, stirring occa- 
sionally. Cover closely, set into the 
fireless-cooker saucepan, pour boil- 
ing water aroimd it, let it boil up. 



then put into the cooker and allow 
it to stand over night. 

Indian Heal. 

3i cupfuls water, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 cupful cornmeal. 

Bring the water to a boil, stir the 
meal slowly into it, being careful 
that it does not lump. Boil half an 
hour, stirring frequently, set into the 
saucepan of cooker with water 
around it and leave it over night. 

Tine Hominy. 

4 cupfuls water, 
1 cupful hominy, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Treat this cereal in the same fash- 
ion as others, leaving in the cooker 
over night. 



CHAPTER VII 



CEREAL LEFT-OVERS 



The appetizing dishes which may 
be evolved from a small left-over of 
any cereal are many. Even a few 
spoonfuls of well-cooked cereal can 
be utilized in gems or griddlecakes, 
or can be fried in butter and eaten 
hot with maple sirup. Set it away 
carefully, covering tightly. An ex- 
cellent plan is to keep three baking- 
powder tins — a quarter, half, and 
pound size for this purpose. The va- 
riety in size will fit the amount of 
the left-over. Brush the can inside 
with butter, pack in the cereal while 
hot, and cover. When needed, slip it 
out of the can, cut in half-inch slices, 
and roll in flour to dry. Dip in egg 
and crumbs and fry in smoking hot 
fat. Eat with maple sirup. Cream 
of wheat, mush, hominy, wheatena, 
Quaker oats, flaked rice, farina. Pet- 
ti John, Ralston's food, wheatlet — in- 
deed, any of the large variety of 
cooked breakfast foods can be made 
palatable in this way. If the left- 
over only amounts to a cupful, com- 
bine it with flour as given in oatmeal 
muffins and you will have a most sat- 
isfactory hot breakfast bread. Served 
with bacon these second-day prep- 
arations of cereals form a very nice 
relish. The uses of cold rice cannot 
be enumerated. There are so many 
methods of transforming it into at- 
tractive dishes that many housewives 
while preparing hot rice for the ta- 
ble, cook a double portion and re- 
serve it for various uses. A cupful 
of rice is a pleasant addition to 
many hot breakfast breads. It 
may be made into delicious pud- 
dings, fritters, pancakes; mixed 
with a cupful of cold tomato or 
even left-over tomato soup, well 

56 



seasoned, sprinkled with cheese and 
buttered bread crumbs and baked 
till brown, when it appears as a pal- 
atable entree. It can be utilized for 
croquettes, drop cakes, for a, thick- 
ening to soup and stews; it may be 
curried, worked into left-over meat 
dishes, and even changed into ice 
cream. Macaroni and spaghetti left- 
overs make good richomfis. With 
the addition of a few spoonfuls of 
milk and water, cold macaroni cooked 
in white sauce or spaghetti, which 
made its first appearance in tomato 
sauce, may be reheated in the double 
boiler, a spoonful of each put in a 
ramequin dish, then covered with 
grated cheese and baked. 

Rice with Cheese Crust. 
3 cupfuls boiled rice, 

1 cupful milk, 

2 eggs. 
Pepper, 
Salt, 

1 cupful grated cheese, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Put the rice in a double boiler and 
cook it in the milk till smooth and 
soft. If there are any lumps in the 
rice, beat with a wire whisk. Add 
the weU-beaten eggs and the salt and 
pepper. Pour into a shallow baking 
pan, sprinkle the cheese lightly over 
the top, dot with morsels of butter, 
and bake till the top is delicately 
brown. This makes a nice entree. 

Eice with Cheese. 

3 cupfuls cold rice, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Dash cayenne and salt, 



56 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



1 cupful grated cheese, 
1 cupful milk, 

J cupful buttered cracker 
crumbs. 

Reheat the rice in a double boiler. 
Butter a. pudding dish and cover the 
bottom of it with rice; dot with 
scraps of butter; sprinkle with grated 
cheese, cayenne, and salt, and repeat 
until the rice and the cheese are used 
up. Add the milk, cover with buttered 
cracker crumbs, and bake twenty 
minutes. 

Kice Griddlecakes. 
i cupful cold rice, 
3 cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

J teaspoonful salt, 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
IJ cupfuls milk, 

1 egg, 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Sift together the dry ingredients; 
work in the rice with the tips of the 
fingers. Add the well-beaten egg, 
milk, and butter; beat well; cook on 
a griddle. 

Kice with Sate Sauce. 

Take cold rice, put it in a double 
boiler with a little milk, and let 
steam till the milk is absorjjed. 
Sweeten to taste and add a dash of 
nutmeg. Press the rice into buttered 
cups. Turn out and serve hot, indi- 
vidually, with a lemon sauce in which 
cut dates have been stewed for a few 
minutes. This makes a nice dessert. 

Rice Waffles. 

li cupfuls flour, 

1 cupful cold rice, 
1| cupfuls milk, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 

1 egg. 

Sift the flour, sugar, baking pow- 
der, and salt. Work the rice with the 



tips of the fingers. Add the yolk of 
the egg, well beaten, milk, butter, 
and, last of all, the white of egg, 
beaten stiff. Cook on hot waffle irons. 

Sice Gems. 

1 egg. 

1 cupful milk, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 

1 cupful cold rice, 

1 cupful flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

J teaspoonful salt. 
Beat the eggs till light, add the 
milk and butter. Beat the rice with 
this until smooth, then sift in the 
salt, flour, and baking powder. Bake 
twenty minutes in hot gem pans. 

Rice Bread. 

2 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 

1 cupful cold rice, 

1 cupful cornmeal, 

J cupful flour, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 

powder, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
li cupfuls milk. 

To the yolks of the eggs, beaten 
well, add the milk and but;ter, rice, 
corn, and flour. Whip thoroughly, 
add the salt and baking powder, and 
last the whites of the eggs beaten to 
.a stiff froth. Pour into shallow 
pans; allow the batter to spread only 
an inch thick. Bake in a moderate 
oven for half an hour. Cut into 
squares when baked, and serve hot. 

Bice and CoTnmeal Uuffins, 
i cupful white cornmeaj, 
i cupful flour, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

1 cupful cold rice, 
IJ cupfuls milk, 

2 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Sift the dry ingredients together, 
rub the rice in lightly with the tips 



CEREAL LEFT-OVERS 



67 



of the fingers till every grain is 
separated. Beat the yolks of eggs 
till thick, mix with the milk, pour 
over the dry ingredients, and beat 
well. Add the melted butter, and 
last the whites of the eggs beaten to 
a dry froth. Bake in hot oven. 

Cream Rice Pudding. 

2 tablespoonfuls cold boiled rice, 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Yolk 1 egg, 

3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
3 cupfuls milk, 

J teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can vanilla. 

Put the milk with the cold rice in 
a double boiler, add the sugar and 
salt. When it boils, add the corn- 
starch wet in a few tablespoonfuls 
cold milk. Just before it is ready to 
take from the fire, add the egg and 
flavoring. Eat cold with whipped 



nice Croq-aettes. 

li cupfuls cold rice, 
J teaspoonful salt. 
Yolks 3 eggs, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Put the rice in a double boiler with 
a little milk and let it cook until the 
rice has absorbed the milk. Remove 
from the fire, add the beaten egg 
yolks and butter, and spread on a 
plate. Shape into balls, roll in 
crumbs, then dent with the finger 
till the croquette is like a small nest. 
Dip in egg, then in crumbs again, 
fry in deep fat, and drain. Serve 
hot with a cube of jelly in each nest. 

Oatmeal Muffins. 

i cupful scalded milk, 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
J yeast cake dissolved in 
i cupful warm water, 
1 cupful cold oatmeal, 
2J cupfuls flour. 

Scald the milk and add it to the 
sugar and salt; as soon as it grows 



lukewarm, add the yeast. Work the 
flour into the oatmeal with the tips 
of the fingers and add to the milk. 
Beat thoroughly, cover, and allow it 
to raise over night. In the morning 
pour into greased iron gem pans and 
Set in u warm place to raise. Bake 
half an hour. 

Farina Muffins. 

1 cupful cold farina, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

3 eggs, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
I cupfuls milk. 

Sift the dry ingredients together 
and work in the farina. Add the 
butter, milk, and yolks of the eggs; 
at the last minute the beaten whites 
of the eggs. Pour into greased gem 
pans. Bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. 

Fried Mush and Bacon. 

Cook slices of bacon in the spider. 
Lift them out and lay on a hot plat- 
ter. Cut cold mush in neat slices, 
dip in flour, egg, and crumbs. Fry 
in hot fat till brown and crisp on 
both sides. Drain on soft paper and 
serve with the bacon. This makes 
a delicious breakfast dish. 

Pried Mush. 

If there is any cornmeal mush left 
from breakfast, do not scrape it in 
cold spoonfuls into a bowl; reheat 
and allow it to become smooth, then 
pour into a square cake tin; calcu- 
late the amount of mush to the size 
of the tin, so it will make a cake two 
inches in depth. Cover when it cools 
and set in the refrigerator. When it 
is needed for breakfast or supper, 
cut into squares about four inches 
in size and roll them in flour until 
dry. Drop into smoking hot fat and 
fry brown. Drain, and serve hot 
with maple sirup. 



58 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Kaised Hominy Unffins. 
I cupful cold hominy, 
4 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 cupful scalded milk, 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
i teaspoonful salt, 

§ yeast cake dissolved in 
i cupful lukewarm water. 

Warm the hominy in a double 
boiler and break it into grains in a 
mixing bowl. Add the butter, milk, 
sugar, and salt. When it is luke- 
warm, stir in the yeast and enough 
flour to make a thick batter. Let it 
stand over night. In the morning 
fiU gem pans two thirds full, set to 
raise in a warm place, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Hominy in Cream Sanee. 

3 cupfuls cream sauce, 

2 cupfuls cold hominy. 

Make a cream sauce and into it 
stir the hominy. Reheat in a. double 
boiler and serve very hot instead of 
potato. 

Hominy Oriddlecakes. 

4 cupful cold hominy, 
2 eggs, 

2 cupfuls sour milk, 
li teaspoonfuls soda, 
2 cupfuls flour, 
i teaspoonful salt. 

Warm the hominy and mix with it 
the well-beaten eggs. Sift in the flour 
and salt, alternating with J cupful 
milk till the mixture is ready to 
beat; at last stir in the soda dissolved 
in a tablespoonful warm water. Bake 
on a hot greased griddle. Bat with 
maple sirup. 

macaroni and Celery. 

1 cupful boiled macaroni, 

1 cupful celery, 

1 cupful white sauce, 

J cupful buttered bread crumbs. 

Salt and pepper, 

i cupful grated cheese. 

Cut the celery into inch pieces and 
boil for ten minutes in salted water. 



Drain and lay in a dish with the- 
macaroni stirred lightly through it. 
Over it pour the white sauce; season 
with salt and pepper. Sprinkle over 
the top buttered crumbs and grated 
cheese. Bake till the top is deli- 
cate brown. 

Savory Macaroni. 

2 cupfuls cold macaroni, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Pepper, 

Salt, 

Paprika. 

Melt the butter in an omelet pan. 
Put in the macaroni, dust with pep- 
per, salt, and paprika. Let it brown 
slightly, tossing it with a fork while 
it cooks. Serve very hot as a side 
dish; sprinkle with grated cheese. 

Creamed Kacaroni on Toast. 
IJ tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 
1 cupful milk or cream. 
Salt and pepper, 
1 cupful cold macaroni, 
J cupful grated cheese, 
6 slices toast. 

Make a white sauce from the but- 
ter, flour, and milk. Chop coarsely 
the macaroni, add to it the white 
sauce, and allow it to' cook for ten 
minutes. Pour over the buttered 
toast, and dust liberally with grated 
cheese. Set on the top shelf of the 
oven for a few minutes, and serve 
very hot. 

macaroni and Chicken. 

1} cupfuls cold chicken, 

li cupfuls macaroni, 

li cupfuls cold tomato sauce, 

J cupful buttered crumbs. 

Butter a baking dish, put in a 
layer of macaroni, then a layer of 
cold chicken cut in small strips, then 
a few spoonfuls of tomato sauce. 
Repeat in the same order till the dish 
is full, making the top layer maca- 
roni. Cover with crvunbs and bake 



CEREAL LEFT-OVERS 



59 



till the top is brown and crusty. No 
seasoning is given in this recipe, be- 
cause usually tomato sauce is well 
■flavored. 

Uacaroni Croquettes. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

4 tablespoonfuls flour, 
1 cupful milk. 

Yolk 1 egg, 

■2 cupfuls chopped macaroni. 



S tablespoonfuls cheese. 
Pepper and salt. 

If the macaroni is the remainder of 
a dish of tomato and macaroni or a 
well-seasoned cheese dish, it will be 
the more tasty. Make a thick sauce 
from the flour, butter, and milk, beat 
in the egg and cheese. Mix thor- 
oughly, spread to cool, flour, egg, 
crumb, and fry. Serve very hot with 
tomato sauce. 



CHAPTER VIII 



EGGS 



When We consider that nine eggs 
are equal in nutritive value to a 
pound of meat, we realize they are 
not only capable of forming a most 
important item in everyday diet, but 
also an economical food during the 
season when eggs are cheap. Even 
when eggs are expensive, it is econ- 
omy to use only th- best grade. Eggs 




a, Soup Pot; b, Colander; c. Meat Cleaver; 

d. Meat Board with Handle to Hang By; 

e. Meat Saw. 



that cost fifty cents a dozen are 
cheaper than eggs at twenty-five 
cents where half of the dozen may 
be stale or worse. There are a num- 
ber of household tests of the fresh- 
ness of eggs. The most reliable is to 
candle them. Hold the egg in the 
hand with tlie fingers wrapped about 
it and look through it against a 
bright light; in a perfectly fresh egg, 
you can see the yolk like a golden 
ball and the white about it clear as 
water. Or you may drop an egg 
into a basin of water; if perfectly 
fresh, it will sink and rest on its 
side. If it rolls around standing on 
its end, it is comparatively fresh; if 



it floats, you had better discard it 
unopened. When an egg is per- 
fectly fresh it has a porous, dull 
surface; if shiny, it is pretty sure 
to be at least stale. There are three 
ways in which eggs are generally 
used for breakfast or luncheon 
dishes; in a soft-boiled condition 
as in a poached egg, hard boiled as 
in a salad, or with the yolk and 
white separated and beaten to a 
froth as in an omelet. Eggs are 
most digestible in the soft-boiled 
stage, but to many difficult of 
digestion when hard boiled. They 
are deficient in fat; therefore we 
find them served with bacon, with en 
oil mayonnaise in salad, or with 
bread and butter. Indeed, their 
highly concentrated, nutritive prop- 
erties demand alvy^ys an accompani- 
ment of some starchy food, such as 
potatoes or biead. 

Poached Eggs. 

A deep spider is the best utensil in 
which to poach eggs. Fill it nearly 
full of boiling water which has been 
slightly salted. Add a few table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, which will pre- 
serve the color of the white of the 
egg, break in a saucer, and drop into 
boiling water, cooking slowly, until 
the whites are like jelly. 

Poached Eggs Ball-Shaped. 

Have a shallow saucepan half full 
of water; add salt and a few table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. When the 
water is boiling, stir with a wooden 
spoon until you start a sort of whirl- 
pool, then into the center of it drop 
an egg from a cup. The egg will 
cook in a rounded form. . When the 



60 



EGGS 



6] 



white is set and before the yolk is 
cooked, lift it from the water and set 
it on a slice of toast. 

Sggs Poached in Ililk. 

Instead of using water to poach 
eggs, drop them into boiling milk; 
as soon as the egg is set, lay it on a 
slice of toast Thicken the milk with 
a little cornstarch, add butter, salt, 
pepper, and a dash of celery salt; 
pour it over the eggs and around the 
toast. 

Frizzled Beef with Poached Eggs. 

i pound finely chipped beef, 
1 cupful milk, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

Put the butter to melt in a sauce- 
pan, add the flour and stir it to a 
paste, then put in the milk, scalding 
hot, and beat with a wire whisk un- 
til creamy. Add the beef and stir 
for a few minutes. Turn into a deep 
platter and cover the top with 
poached eggs. 

Eggs in Bamec[Tiins. 

Butter small ramequins and drop 
a raw egg into each one, being care- 
ful that it remains whole. Set the 
ramequins in a pan of boiling water 
and put it in a hot oven until the 
eggs are set. Put a dab of butter on 
each one and a dust of pepper and 
salt before taking from the oven. 



Eggs Baked in Green Peppers. 

Cut off the stems of green peppers, 
scoop out Uie seeds and ribs, and par- 
boil until tender. Break an egg intoi 
each one. Set them in a baking pan 
with 4 cupful boiling water poured 
around. In fifteen minutes the eggs 
should be firm. Set each one on a 
slice of buttered toast and, if you 
wish, pour white sauce or tomato 
sauce about them. 

Eggs in Tomato Sauce (Spanish rec- 
ipe). 

Cover the bottom of an earthen 
baking dish with well-seasoned to- 
mato purie. Arrange on it poached 
eggs, leaving spaces to show the red 
color. Lay between the eggs small 
sausages, already cooked. Place a 
bit of butter on each egg and set the 
dish in the oven to heat. 

Eggs with Bread Sauce. 

1 cupful bread crumbs, 

IJ cupfuls milk, 

J teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful onion juice, 

6 eggs. 

Put the bread crumbs in a sauce- 
pan, then add the milk, salt, a. dash 
of cayenne, and the onion juice. 
Simmer slowly till thick and smooth, 
beating several times with a spoon. 
Pour the sauce into a. broad, shallow 
dish and break the eggs carefully 
over it. Place in a hot oven until 
they are set. 



Eggs Baked in Tomatoes. 

Pick out several well-shaped toma- 
toes, cut off the stem ends, and with 
a spoon lift out enough of the pulp 
so that each shell will hold an egg. 
Drop it in carefully, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, put a dab of butter 
on top of each; place the tomatoes in 
a baking dish and pour the water 
around them. Cook until the eggs 
are set and the tomatoes soft. Lift 
each one on a slice of buttered toast, 
and serve. 



Eggs on B.ice. 

Butter a baking dish, fill it half 
full with well-seasoned boiled rice; 
make as many depressions in the rice 
as there are people to be served; 
break an egg into each one, sprinkle 
with salt and strew with bits of but- 
ter. Bake until the eggs are set. 

Eggs and Mushrooms. 
J cupful milk, 
1 pound mushrooms. 



62 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



1 tablespoonf ul butter, 
6 poached eggs. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce. 

Peel and wash the mushrooms; 
place them in a saucepan and cook 
gently, with the butter, milk, a pinch 
of . salt and tabasco. Cook ten min- 
utes, thicken with flour, let come to a 
boil, then pour on a hot platter. Have 
your poached eggs ready; serve on 
top of the sauce, the mushrooms being 
in the middle. 

Cheesed Eggs. 

Place in a serving dish a table- 
spoonful butter and several slices rich 
cheese. When it is melted, break 
whole eggs into it; put the dish into 
the oven or before the fire. When 
the white sets, sprinkle grated cheese 
and pepper on them. Brown on top, 
and serve. 

Eggs a la Bonne Pemme (French 

recipe). 

Cut an onion in dice; fry with a 
tablespoonf ul butter; add a table- 
^oonful vinegar; then butter a dish 
lightly, spread the onions over it, 
break in the eggs, and put the dish 
in the oven. When the eggs are 
done, strew over them fried bread 
crumbs, and serve hot. 

Eggs in Nests. 

Separate as many eggs as are need- 
ed for this dish and beat the whites 
to a stiff froth. Drop irregularly 
on a flat buttered baking dish, dust 
with pepper and salt here and 
there, in the middle of the white, 
slide in carefully the raw yolks. Put 
a tiny bit of butter on each yolk. 
Place the dish in a hot oven for eight 
minutes. Serve immediately. If de- 
sired, the froth may be piled into 
individual dishes with the yolk in 
the center of each and baked as de- 
scribed. 

Boiled Eggs. 

If the eggs have been set in a re- 
frigerator, drop them in warm water 



for a few minutes before boiling, as 
the sudden change of temperature is 
liable to crack the shells. Put them 
into a saucepan where the water is 
boiling, and if you wish them soft, 
cook gently for three and a half 
minutes. 

Poached Eggs vritb Greens. 

For this dish use outer leaves of 
lettuce; wash them thoroughly and 
boU until tender in salted water. 
Drain, chop fine, and season with 
salt, pepper, and butter. Toast a 
few slices of bread, butter them, cov- 
er with the chopped greens, and on 
top of each drop a poached egg. 

Tried Eggs. 

Fry thin slices of bacon to a crisp, 
lift them out and lay on a hot plat- 
ter. Break into the pan as many 
eggs as you need; let them cook until 
the white is set, and baste with hot 
fat till a film forms over the yolk. 
If you like them turned, run a knife 
under each and reverse quickly. Cut 
off the ragged edges and serve on a 
platter with the crisp bacon. 

Tried Eggs with Brown Sance. 

Fry eggs in butter in a spider, lift 
them and keep hot over boiling wat- 
er. If there is not enough gravy in 
the pan, put in a little more butter, 
1 tablespoonful vinegar, a dash of 
onion juice, salt, pepper, and a few 
drops of Mcllhenny's Tabasco. 
Thicken slightly with flour, beat till 
creamy, and strain the brown gravy 
over eggs. 

Baked Souffle of Eggs. 
6 eggs, 

1 cupful milk, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Pepper and salt. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler, 
add to it the ydlks of eggs, beaten 
till thick, also the butter and season- 
ings. When the mixture begins to 
thicken like a custard, stir in the 
whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff 



EGGS 



6J 



froth. Pour into a deep buttered 
baking dish and bake in a moderate 
oven till puffy and brown. Serve 
immediately. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

4 eggs, 

i teaspoonful salt. 

Dash pepper, 

3 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Whip the eggs just enough to 
break them up; they do not need to 
be light or frothy. Put the butter 
into an omelet pan, and when it is 
brown pour in the egg. Scrape the 
cooked eggs from the bottom of the 
pan, tipping it so the uncooked egg 
will run down on the hot iron. Dou- 
ble it over before it begins to get 
brown, and serve very hot. 

Deviled Eggs. 

5 hard-boiled eggs, 

i cupful white sauce. 
Salt and pepper. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce, 

3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 

Chop the eggs coarsely, sprinkle 
the cheese through them, and toss 
the mixture together with a fork. 
Add the seasonings, then stir in the 
sauce. Put in a saucepan, simmer 
gently for a few minutes, and serve 
on slices of buttered toast. 

Eggs Farci (French recipe). 

6 hard-boiled eggs, 

i teaspoonful onion juice. 
Pepper and salt, 

4 tablespoonfuls stale bread 
criunbs, 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped par- 
sley, 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce. 

Shell the eggs, cut them in halves 
lengthwise, remove the yolks and 
mash them. Add the bread crumbs, 
soften with a little milk, the season- 
ings, and parsley. Mash the yolk 
and bread mixture together till pas- 
ty, fill it into the whites of the eggs. 



and with what is left make a small 
mound in a baking dish; set the 
stuffed eggs on top, pour a white 
sauce over them, and set in the oven 
till piping hot. 

Curry of Eggs. 

6 hard-boiled eggs, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 tablespoonful curry powder, 

i teaspoonful onion juice. 

Pepper and salt, 

1 cupful veal or chicken stock. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, 
blend with the flour, put in the stock 
and seasoning, and beat the sauce till 
creamy. Lay on eggs cut in slices, 
cook to the boiling point, and serve 
hot on buttered toast. 

Eggs Lucaniau (Italian recipe). 
5 eggs, 

1 cupful macaroni, 
i cupful grated cheese, 
Ij cupfuls white sauce. 

Boil the eggs hard, cutting in 
eighths, lengthwise, then add the 
macaroni, cheese, and sauce; season 
with salt, paprika, onion juice, and 
anchovy essence. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish, cover with but- 
tered crumbs, and set in the oven 
long enough to brown the crumbs. 

Eggs a la Cuba (Spanish recipe). 
4 tablespoonfuls sausage meat, 

1 teaspoonful minced onion, 
8 eggs. 

Cook the sausage meat and 
minced onion for five minutes over a 
hot fire. Beat the eggs until light 
and add to the meat and onion; sea- 
son with salt and pepper; stir un- 
til the eggs become thick. Serve on 
slices of hot, buttered toast. 

Egg Croquettes. 
6 eggs, 
J can mushrooms, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

2 tablespoonfids flour. 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Boil the eggs hard; chop the whites 
and add the mushrooms (which should 
be drained from liquor). Mash the 
yolks of the eggs through a press. 
Scald the mills; rub together until 
smooth the flour and butter; add to 
the milk and stir until it thickens; 
add the yolk of one raw egg, the 
whites and yolks of the boiled eggs, 
mushrooms, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Stir quickly, take from the 
fire, and put away to cool. When 
thoroughly cold, form into cro- 
quettes; dip in egg and bread crumbs 
and fry in smoking hot fat. Garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

Omelet Rudolph (German recipe). 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 raw onion, 
1 tablespoonful salt pork, 

1 tablespoonful roast beef, 

2 mushrooms, 

1 tablespoonful tomato sauce, 
1 tablespoonful grated bread 

crumbs, 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce. 

Into a saucepan put the butter 
and raw onion chopped very fine; 
add the salt pork, which has been 
slightly cooked, the beef, mushrooms, 
a pinch of salt, chopped parsley and 
tabasco, then stir in the tomato 
sauce and bread crumbs. Make a 
plain omelet; when cooked, spread 
with the above mixture and turn 
over carefully. 

Plain Omelet. 
4 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls hot water, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Pepper and salt. 

Separate the whites from the yolks, 
beat the yolks with an egg beater 
till thick, and whip the whites on a 
platter with a wire whisk until you 
have a stiff froth. Add the season- 
ings and hot water. Last of all 
blend in the beaten whites. Heat 
an omelet pan and grease with but- 
ter, pour in the egg mixture, tip till 
the eggs set evenly, then set it where 



it will cook slowly, turning the pan 
around that it may brown all over. 
When puffed and delicately browned 
on the bottom, take it from the fire 
and set on the top grate of the oven 
for a few minutes to cook to the 
heart. Press it with your finger; if 
none of the egg mixture clings, it is 
cooked. Score lightly down the cen- 
ter, and turn out on a hot platter. 

Omelet Chassi (French recipe). 

Make an omelet as described above. 
Before folding, spread a cupful of 
creamed chicken over the top, then 
double and turn over on a platter. 
Put on the top some thick, well-sea- 
soned tomato sauce. 

Bread Omelet. 
6 eggs, 
3 tablespoonfuls stale bread 

crumbs, 
1 cupful milk. 
Pepper and salt, 
IJ tablespoonfuls butter. 

Scald the milk, pour over the 
crumbs and allow it to soak, beat the 
whites and yolks separately until 
very light. Stir the crumb mixture 
into the yolks, add the seasoning, 
then cut in with a palette knife the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour 
into a deep buttered baking dish and 
bake in a hot oven till browned on 
top. 

Oyster Omelet. 
12 oysters, 
3 tablespoonfuls cream, 
3 tablespoonfuls strained oyster 

liquor. 
Pepper and salt, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

For this dish, prepare the oyster 
filling before beginning to cook the 
omelet. Strain the oysters and cut 
them with a scissors into small pieces. 
Make a white sauce from the butter, 
flour, oyster liquor, cream, and sea- 
sonings. When hot and creamy, put 
in the chopped oysters and cook a 
few minutes. Set the sauce over 



EGGS 



65 



boiling water to keep hot while mak- 
ing the omelet. When ready, pour 
over the oyster mixture, fold, and 
serve immediately. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Over an omelet, when ready to 
fold, sprinkle grated cheese with a 
little seasoning. Slip out on a. hot 
platter and sprinkle again with 
cheese. Set in a hot oven for a few 
minutes before serving. 

Ham Omelet. 

Over the top of an omelet, before 
the egg begins to set, sprinkle J tea- 
cupful minced ham; let it cook for 
a minute or two longer, then set in 
the oven as directed, and serve hot. 

Bismarck Omelet (German recipe). 
i pound bacon, 
8 eggs. 

Fry the bacon cut in dice; beat the 
eggs with pepper and salt; add to 
the bacon, and fry all together. Stir 
until it gets thick, and turn out on a 
dish. 



Parsley Omelet (Scotch recipe). 
4 cupful cream, 
6 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful minced parsley. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with a 
little cayenne and salt; add a small 
piece of shallot and parsley shredded 
fine; mix; whip the whites of the 
eggs and stir into the omelet, melt 
the butter in a frying pan, and pour 
in the eggs. Cook five minutes; 
serve very hot. 

Eggs Fricasseed. 

Put a piece of butter in a stewpan 
with some finely minced parsley and 
minced onion, 1 teacupful stock and 
1 tablespoonful flour. Boil eggs 
hard, cut in slices, and put them in 
with a little salt and pepper. Beat 
up the yolk of an egg in J cupful 
cream; add this with the juice of 
half a lemon. Mix well, make very 
hot, and serve with sippets of toast- 
ed or fried bread. 



CHAPTER IX 



SOUPS 



Soup making is as much of an art 
as turning out fine cake or pastry, 
still the American housewife devotes 
twice as much study to the making 
of sweet dishes as to soup. The 
French woman makes a trifle of 
something sweet serve as dessert, 
while her soups are famous the 
world over. It is economy to be 
able to provide a soup which will of- 
ten take the place of the pUce de re- 
sistance in a dinner, for a fine bisque 
or smooth, creamy soup is a. meal in 
itself. Then there are the stimulat- 
ing thin soups which make a proper 
beginning to a dinner. Soup, is dir 
vided into several classes — soups with 
stock and soups without — and the va- 
riations which can be wrought by a 
clever housewife on these are num- 
berless. With a pot of stock on 
hand and the assistance of vegetables 
for stockless soups, even in a frugal 
home there may be a soup for every- 
day in the year. Besides, we have 
excellent soups made from fish, and 
satisfying chowders with the addi- 
tion of potatoes which makes the 
dish a full meal. 

In recipes for making stock, the 
list of ingredients for seasoning seem 
endless. Still, a good cook keeps on 
hand everything that tends to fine 
flavoring. Spices such as mace, bay 
leaves, peppers, etc., are very cheap, 
so are the winter vegetables that 
most recipes call for and they may be 
kept constantly on hand. In a large 
famUy where there is a. roast or 
meat dish once, perhaps twice, a day, 
little fresh meat is required for the 
stock pot if all bones and scraps are 
saved and utilized. Every morsel of 
a stew, roast with its gravy, chop 
and steak bones, carcasses of chick- 



en or game, and the trimmings from 
meat, which a housewife pays for 
and should insist on having, are all 
grist for the soup pot. The meats to 
avoid using are bits of raw lamb or 
mutton with fat on them, which gives 
a disagreeable flavor, also smoked or 
corned meat. Scraps of bacon, cold 
ham, or even calf s liver may be add- 
ed; they give a touch of good flavor- 
ing. Several utensils are a necessity 
for soup making. First there is a 
sharp meat knife, a hard-wood board, 
a strong purie strainer, a soup pot 
with a tight lid, and a strainer with 
a slide, which allows it to be placed 
across the tureen. 

A soup pot need not do a con- 
tinuous performance on the back of 
a stove from Monday to Saturday. 
It is too handy for aU sorts of fag- 
ends to be thrown in without being 
critically looked over; besides, the 
stock which is constantly at the boU, 
or very near it, does not extract the 
nourishment from meat and bones 
that cold water does. If you woidd 
have fine-flavored, good-colored soup, 
save all the scraps and keep in a 
scrupulously clean jar in the refrig- 
erator. Make soup twice a week; 
three times if the weather is too hot 
for meat remains to keep, or if they 
accumulate very fast. Never add a 
morsel of anything that has the 
slightest taint; it wiU spoil the whole 
potful. Break bones thoroughly. If 
you would extract all the flavor from 
bits of meat, put them through a, 
chopper. With a skewer pick mar- 
row from the bones. Lay the bones 
at the bottom of the pot. 

If there are any left-overs in the 
refrigerator of such vegetables as 
onions, celery, tomatoes, carrots. 



66 



SOUPS 



67 



parsnips, or peas, chop fine and add, 
but do not put in too much of one 
thing; it gives too strong a flavor 
to the soup. If there are'no left-over 
vegetables on hand, chop J cupful 
each of carrot, turnip, and celery, 
and add for flavoring, with J tea- 
spoonful peppercorns, 1 bay leaf, 
sprig of parsley, 6 cloves, and 1 
chopped onion. Do not add salt till 
the stock is half cooked. 

Cover the bones with cold water 
and set far back on the stove where 
it will come to the boil slowly. Let 
it simmer five or six hours, strain 
through a fine sieve, and cool as 
quickly as possible. Do not remove 
the cake of fat from the top of the 
soup until you are ready to use it, 
then run a thin knife around the 
edge to loosen it. Cut into quarters 
and lift each piece carefully. If 
there are any grains of fat left on 
the top of the jellied stock, dampen 
a bit of cheese cloth and carefully 
wipe over the top. Floating globules 
of grease will ruin the finest-flavored 
soup. 

For an everyday family soup in 
which nourishment is the first con- 
sideration, it does not require clear- 
ing. In the sediment there is con- 
siderable nutriment. If it is to be 
cleared, set the strained, skimmed 
soup over the fire, mix with the 
white and crushed shell of one egg, 
a. dash of celery seed, the chopped 
rind and juice of half a lemon, and 
pepper and salt if required. Mix 
thoroughly, heat, and boil ten min- 
utes. Just before taking from the 
fire, pour in i cupful cold water. 
Pour through the finest strainer, and 
heat again to the boiling point be- 
fore using. 

Mutton Broth. 

4 pounds neck mutton, 

3 quarts water, 

1 onion, 

3 stalks celery, 

1 small carrot. 

Bay leaf. 

Few peppercorns. 



Wash the mutton thoroughly, cut it 
up and place it in the vessel of fire- 
less cooker with water, allow it to 
boil, then skim and boil slowly fif- 
teen minutes. Add the flavoring and 
vegetables. Cook ten minutes long- 
er without raising the lid, set it into 
the cooker five hours. 

Kock-Turtle Soup. 

1 calf's liver, 

1 calf's heart. 

Small knuckle veal, 

3 quarts water, 

1 onion. 

Salt and pepper, 

J teaspoonful ground cloves, 

3 tablespoonfuls brown flour. 

Yolks 4 hard-boiled eggs. 
Put the liver, heart, and veal into 
the saucepan of the cooker, cover 
with water and boil fifteen minutes. 
Put into the cooker for six hours. 
When soup is lifted out, strain it, 
chop the meat fine, add the chopped 
onion, seasonings, thicken with brown 
flour, and cook for a few minutes. 
After pouring into the tureen, add 
the yolks of the eggs cut in pieces, 
also some fine cubes of lemon. An 
excellent way to make this soup, as 
well as many others, is to leave it in 
the cooker over night, then strain, 
skim off any fat that may rise; allow 
it to cool, and prepare when needed 
for the table. 

Bean Soup. 

1 quart white beans, 

3 pints boiling water, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 slice salt pork. 
Wash the beans and soak over 
night; in the morning put them in 
the fireless vessel, add the pork and 
salt, boil ten minutes, then set into 
the cooker for five hours. Strain, 
thicken, and serve. 

Creole Soup. 

1 quart brown soup stock, 
1 pint tomatoes, 

3 tablespoonfuls chopped green 
peppers. 



68 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



3 tablespoonfuls chopped onion, 
i cupful butter, 
J cupful flour. 
Salt, 
Pepper, 
Cayenne, 

3 tablespoonfuls grated horse- 
radish, 

1 teaspoonful vinegar, 

i cupful macaroni rings. 

Cook pepper and onion in butter 
five minutes. Add flour, stock, and 
tomatoes, and simmer fifteen min- 
utes. Strain, rub through sieve, and 
season highly with salt, pepper, and 
cayenne. Just before serving, add 
horse-radish, vinegar, and macaroni 
previously cooked and cut in rings. 
— Fannie Mehbitt Fabmeb. 

Veal Soup. 

2 pounds veal, 

2 quarts cold water, 

1 cupful chopped ham, 

I onion, 

1 tablespoonful parsley. 

Pepper and salt, 

1 pint cream, 

3 slices carrot. 

Cook veal in water slowly for two 
or three hours. Take out the veal 
and add to the boiling stock ham, 
onion, parsley, and carrot. Let this 
simmer slowly for an hour, strain, 
then add the cream, season with salt 
and pepper, and serve with croutons. 

Consomme. 

3 pounds lean beef, 
1 carrot, 

1 turnip, 

1 parsnip, 

1 onion, 

1 red pepper, 

1 tablespoonful whole cloves, 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 

4 stalks celery, 
3 quarts water. 

Cover the meat with water, and 
simmer four hours. Add the other 
ingredients, and cook one hour long- 
er. Strain and stand over night. 
Next day skim off the grease, add the 



white and shell of one egg to clear it, 
boil up, strain again, and serve with 
imperial sticks. 



awn Stock. 


10 pounds shin beef, 
3 slices bacon. 


4 onions. 


3 carrots. 


1 turnip, 
1 bunch celery, 
1 sprig parsley, 
1 sprig thyme, 
13 cloves. 


2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls salt, 
1 teaspoonful pepper, 
7 quarts cold water. 



Cut in rather small pieces all the 
meat from a shin of beef; break the 
bone in pieces, and put into a large 
pot with bacon, onions, carrots, tur- 
nip, celery, parsley, thyme, salt, 
cloves, pepper, butter, and a cupful 
cold water. Set it over a brisk fire, 
stirring frequently to prevent burn- 
ing. Cook until the juice from the 
meat and vegetables begins to thick- 
en. Then add cold water, set it back 
on the fire, where it will simmer 
slowly for six hours, skimming very 
often. Strain carefully through a 
fine sieve, not bruising the vegeta- 
bles. Next morning skim off the fat. 
You can make a variety of soups 
from this stock by adding to it maca- 
roni, Italian paste, or finely cut 
vegetables. 

Tomato Soup. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls onion, 
1 bay leaf, 

10 peppers, 

1 tablespoonful chopped ham, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 
1 can tomatoes, 
3 cupfuls stock, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce. 

Place a saucepan, with butter and 
fine-chopped onion, over the fire; 



SOXJPS 



69 



cook five minutes; add bay leaf, pep- 
pers, ham, and flour; stir and cook 
two minutes; add the tomatoes; stir 
and cook five minutes; add salt, 
stock, and tabasco; cook ten minutes, 
then press the soup through a sieve 
and serve with toasted bread cut into 
dice. 

Soup h la Heine (French recipe). 
1 fowl. 
Small knuckle veal, 

4 quarts cold water, 
1 tablespoonful salt, 
3 leeks, 

3 onions, 

3 sprigs parsley, 

5 blades mace, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 pint cream. 

Yolks 4 eggs. 

Place in a soup kettle the fowl, cut 
up knuckle of veal, and cold water; 
as soon as it boils, add salt, leeks, 
onions, parsley, and mace; cover and 
boil slowly; when the chicken is done, 
take it out, remove the meat, chop 
the bones, return them with the sldn 
to the soup kettle and boil half an 
hour longer. Strain through a sieve, 
remove the fat, return 9i quarts soup 
to the kettle and place it over the 
fire; melt butter in a saucepan, add 
flour, stir until the flour has absorbed 
all the butter; pour in slowly 1 pint 
stock, and stir until smooth; then 
add it to the soup; boil fifteen min- 
utes; mix the yolks of 4 eggs with 1 
pint cream; season to taste with 
salt; draw the soup kettle to side of 
stove; add a little of the soup to the 
cream and yolks; mix well; then 
pour it into the soup; place the fine- 
cut chicken meat from the breast in 
tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. 

Vegetable Uutton Soup. 
1 turnip, 
1 carrot, 
1 onion, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
J cupful chopped celery, 
IJ quarts mutton broth. 



One hour before serving, cut the 
vegetables into slices, put in saucepan 
with butter and celery. Stir over the 
fire six minutes, then add the mutton 
broth, cover and cook till done, sea- 
son to taste and serve. 

Potato Cream Soup. 

I tablespoonful butter, 

1 onion, 

3 stalks celery, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 meat bone, 

3 quarts cold water, 

3 large potatoes, 

i cupful milk, 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Place a saucepan with butter, on- 
ion, and celery over the fire; cook 
and stir five minutes, add salt, small 
meat bone, and water. Cover and 
cook slowly one hour, then strain the 
broth into another saucepan. Boil 
potatoes, drain and mash them fine, 
add with butter and milk, to the 
broth, cook a few minutes, season to 
taste, garnish with chopped parsley 
and serve. 

Soup Begue (Southern recipe). 

3 pounds fowl, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 quarts cold water, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 cupful green lima beans (par- 
boiled), 
1 cupful sweet corn, 
1 cupful diced celery, 
i cupful stewed tomatoes. 
Pepper, 
1 cupful cream. 

Choose a young fowl, with yellow 
legs; after disjointing it and divid- 
ing the large pieces, brown it care- 
fully in butter, then place in the soup 
kettle with water and salt, and sim- 
mer until tender. Remove the chick- 
en, carefully skim the grease from the 
broth, and add to it lima beans, 
sweet corn, celery and tomato, with 
salt and pepper to taste. Simmer 
until the vegetables are perfectly 
cooked, then the choice chicken meat 



70 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



may be cut in small pieces and added 
to the soup, and, lastly, the cream. 

Soup a la Uenestia (French recipe). 
2i pints mutton broth, 
1 carrot, 
1 onion, 
1 stalk celery, 

1 cupful fine-cut cabbage^ 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful rice. 
Dash pepper. 

Cut fine the carrot, onion, celery, and 
cabbage; place a saucepan with but- 
ter over the fire, add the vegetables, 
and cook ten minutes, then add the 
rice, mutton broth, salt, and pepper; 
boil slowly, well covered for one hour ; 
serve with grated cheese. 

Du Barry Soup (French recipe). 
1 cupful rice, 
S quarts chicken stock, 
1 cupful cold cauliflower, 
Pepper and salt, 

5 cupfuls cream. 

Boil rice in the stock, add cauli- 
flower pressed through a potato 
ricer. Season with white pepper and 
salt, add cream and bring again to 
the boil. Serve in bouillon cups; gar- 
nish with small flowerets of cauli- 
flower. 

Oztail Soup a la Tabasco. 

1 oxtail, 

2 onions, 

1 tablespoonful parsley. 
Garlic, 

1 tablespoonful Mcllhenny's 
Tabasco Sauce, 

6 cloves, 

6 allspice berries, 

2 hard-boiled eggs, 
1 lemon. 

Cut the oxtail into small pieces, 
chop the other ingredients, and rub 
into a tablespoonful lard and a ta- 
blespoonful sifted flour. Mix thor- 
oughly and brown without burning. 
Add cloves, allspice, and salt to taste. 
Pry ten minutes, stirring often. Add 
hot water enough to make the soup. 



Cook from three to four hours. Put 
into a tureen the eggs and lemon 
sliced in small pieces. Pour the soup 
into this through a strainer, and 
serve. 

Fish Chowaer. 
4 pounds fish, 
J pound pork, 

2 onions, 

1 quart potato cubes parboiled, 
IJ quarts water, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls Mcllhenny's 
Tabasco Sauce, 

1 cupful tomatoes. 

Skin the fish and cut the flesh from 
the bones. Put the bones on to cook 
in the water and boil ten minutes. 
Fry the pork, then add the onions, 
cut into slices. Cover and cook five 
minutes; add the flour, cook ten min- 
utes longer. To this add the water 
in which the fish bones were cooked 
and boil for five minutes; then strain 
all on the potatoes and fish. Add 
salt and tabasco and let it simmer 
fifteen minutes. Add tomatoes, let 
it boil up once, and serve. 

White Soup Stock. 

3 pounds knuckle veal, 
1 pound lean beef, 

3 quarts boiling water, 

1 onion, 

6 slices carrot, 

1 large stalk celery, 

i teaspoonful peppercorns, 
i bayleaf, 

2 sprigs thjTne, 
2 cloves. 

Wipe veal, remove from bone, and 
cut in small pieces; cut beef in 
pieces, put bone and meat in soup 
kettle, cover vrith cold water, and 
bring quickly to boiling point; drain, 
throw away the water. Wash thor- 
oughly bones and meat in cold water; 
return to kettle, add vegetables, sea- 
sonings, and 3 quarts boiling water. 
Boil three or four hours; the stock 
should be reduced one half. — Fannie 
M. Faemeh. 



SOUPS 



71 



Puree de lentilles (French recipe). 
Take 6 heads celery, 3 onions, 2 
turnips, and 4 carrots; put them into 
a stewpan with 1 pound lentils, a 
slice of ham, 4 tablespoonfuls butter; 
set it upon a stove to stew slowly 
for an hour, then add 2 quarts stock; 
let it stew for two hours; strain the 
soup into a dish, rub vegetables 
through a sieve; put again in the 
stewpan with salt and pepper; let it 
simmer for quarter of an hour long- 
er, and serve. 

Chicken Soup. 

Carcass roast chicken, 

2 quarts cold water, 
1 pound lean veal, 

3 tablespoonfuls chopped bacon, 
1 bay leaf, 

1 slice onion, 

1 stalk celery, 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
li teaspoonfuls salt, 

} teaspoonful pepper, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Yolks 2 eggs, 

1 cupful cream. 

Slice the best meat from fowl, leav- 
ing only wings and carcass, with 
skin removed- from meat as well. 
Break bones, put them into the soup 
kettle with cold water and the un- 
cooked neck and feet, scalded and 
cleaned. Cut veal in dice, dust with 
flour and pepper, and brown in fine- 
ly chopped bacon; add 1 cupful hot 
water, simmer for a few minutes, 
cool, and pour into the soup kettle. 
Cook slowly for one hour, then add 
bay leaf, onion, and celery; cook half 
an hour longer, strain, and cool. 
Mix together in a saucepan corn- 
starch, salt, pepper, flour, and but- 
ter. Add gradually 1 pint hot stock 
and cook until thickened, then add 
IJ cupfuls hot stock, mix well and add 
yolks of eggs beaten and diluted with 
cream. Do not boil after egg is add- 
ed, but keep hot until egg has thick- 
ened. Serve in bouillon cups, with 
or without a spoonful of whipped 
<;ream on top of each., 



Kullagatawny Soup. 

3 quarts chicken stock, 

4 onions, 
1 carrot, 
3 turnips, 

6 stalks celery, 

1 tablespoonful curry powder. 

Chop the vegetables, add to the 
stock, and put them in a saucepan 
over a hot fire until it begins to boil, 
then set aside to simmer for twenty 
minutes. Add curry powder and 
flour. Mix well, boil three minutes, 
and strain. In serving, add some 
pieces of the white meat of the 
chicken chopped. 

Soup a. la Flamaude (French recipe). 
Take 3 quarts veal stock, put in 1 
cupful cooked spinach and 1 cupful 
sorrel, and let it boil till tender; sea- 
son with salt and while it is boiling, 
but about two minutes before serving 
stir into it a pint of cream previously 
mixed with the yolks of 3 eggs. 

Barley Broth (Scotch recipe). 

1 neck mutton, 
3 carrots, 

3 turnips, 

2 onions, 

1 celery head, 

4 tablespoonfuls barley, 

2 quarts water. 

Soak the mutton in water an hour; 
cut off the scrag, and put it into a. 
stewpot with 2 quarts water; as 
soon as it boils, skim it well; let it 
simmer for an hour and a half, then 
take the best end of the mutton, di- 
vide in cutlets, trim off some of the 
fat, and add as many to the soup as 
you wish; skim the moment the fresh 
meat boils up, and every quarter of 
an hour after; then add the carrots, 
onions, turnips, celery, cut, but not 
too small; and barley previously 
washed in cold water. The broth 
should stew for three hours before 
serving; some chopped parsley may 
be added, and season to taste. 



72 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Hutton Broth (Irish recipe). 
2i pounds mutton, 

1 quart water, 
3 turnips, 

3 carrots, 

2 leeks or onions, 

3 mutton chops, 
1 head lettuce, 

3 spoonfuls barley. 

Boil the mutton with a little bar- 
ley, slowly, for three or four hours; 
strain it off and remove the fat; add 
turnips, carrots, and leelcs, cut fine; 
put them, with mutton chops, into 
the broth, and boil till tender; when 
nearly done, add some lettuce, pre- 
viously blanched and drained; boil 
for ten minutes, season with salt, and 
serve. The vegetables should be 
quite thick in the broth, but cut very 
small. 

Sheep's-Head Broth (Scotch recipe). 
Take a cupful of barley, sheep's 
head and trotters, and, if the broth 
should be wanted stronger, a neck 
of mutton; put them into a pot with 
3 quarts cold water; as soon as it 
comes to the boil, skim it well. Chop 
2 carrots and 2 turnips small, a sprig 
of parsley and 2 onions; before you 
add the roots, skim it again. Boil 
slowly till the head is tender; take 
the pot off the fire and stand it near, 
covered closely, for a quarter of an 
hour before serving. The head and 
trotters should be served separately 
with whole carrots and turnips. 

To Prepare the Head and Trotters. 

They should be well singed, which 
is best done at the blacksmith's. 
Split the head down the middle of the 
skull; take out the brains, lay the 
head and trotters to soak in water 
all night, scrape and wash well be- 
fore using. Sheep's head is excellent 
eaten cold. 

Cock-a-Ieekie (Scotch recipe). 
1 fowl, 

4 pounds beef, 
13 leeks, 



Dash pepper, 

1 tablespoonful salt, 

5 quarts water. 

Truss a fowl as for boiling, put it 
into a stewpan with a piece of lean 
beef, leeks cut in pieces an inch long, 
rejecting the coarser green part, a 
little pepper and salt, and water. 
Cover the stewpan closely and allow 
its contents to stew slowly four 
hours; then place the fowl in a tu- 
reen; remove the beef, pour the soup 
and leeks over it, and serve. 

Friar's Chicken (French recipe). 

1 knuckle veal, 

2 turnips, 

2 carrots, 

3 onions, 

4 sprigs sweet herbs, 

1 quart cream, 

6 yolks eggs, 

2 chickens. 

Boil veal, carrots, turnips, onions, 
and a few sweet herbs to a good stock 
and strain it. Have ready the chick- 
ens, boiled tender and cut in pieces, 
cream and yolks of eggs beaten to- 
gether; add these to the broth, heat 
them up together, and send it to 
table. A little minced parsley may 
be added just before serving. 

Babbit Soup (English recipe). 
1 rabbit, 
1 carrot, 
1 head celery, 

3 onions, 

1 ounce peppercorns, 

1 bunch herbs, 

1 tablespoonful ground rice. 

When the rabbit is skinned, take 
care to save all the blood. Cut in 
pieces and put into a dish with the 
water required for soup. Let it stand 
an hour; then add the blood of the 
rabbit, strain it through a. sieve into 
a soup pot, and put all on the fire; 
stir constantly till it boils, to pre- 
vent its curdling, and skim it a little; 
put in carrot, celery, onions, pepper- 
corns tied up in a bit of muslin, herbs. 



SOUPS 



73 



salt, and chopped onion. Boil for 
ttiree Iiours; take it off an hour be- 
fore dinner; strain through a sieve; 
take out the onions, carrot, pepper, 
etc., and put in some of the best 
pieces of the rabbit; return it to tlie 
saucepan, and let it boil. Stir the 
ground rice dissolved in water into 
the soup; continue stirring till re- 
moved from the fire. 

Tomato Bouillon with Oysters. 

1 can tomatoes, 

IJ quarts brown stock, 

1 chopped onion, 

i bay leaf, 

6 cloves, 

1 teaspoonful peppercorns, 

1 pint parboiled oysters. 

Pepper and salt. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce. 

* 
Boil together the stock, toma- 
toes, bay leaf, cloves, tabasco and 
peppercorns. Cook twenty minutes. 
Strain, cool and clear, then strain 
into cups over parboiled oysters. 
When cooked, clear it as if you 
were making a plain, clear soup. 
Beat the white of 1 egg lightly, just 
enough to separate it, and add to it 
the eggshell broken up. When the 
stock has cooled, add this and set it 
where it will come slowly to the boil, 
stirring constantly. The egg will at- 
tract all particles of tomatoes and 
everything solid. Let it boil two 
minutes, then strain through two 
thicknesses of cheese cloth. It wiU 
be perfectly clear, but with the red- 
tomato coloring. If it were left to 
cool, it would become a solid jelly.— 
Stella A. Dowimrc. 

Okra Gumbo (Southern recipe). 
1 chicken, 

1 onion, 

i pod red pepper without the 

seeds, • 

3 pints okra, or about SO pods, 

2 slices ham, 
1 bay leaf, 

1 sprig thyme or parsley. 



1 tablespoonful each lard and 

butter. 
Salt and cayenne to taste. 

Clean and cut up the chicken. Cut 
the ham into small squares or dice, 
and chop the onion, parsley, and 
thyme. Skin the tomatoes and chop 
fine, saving the juice. Wash and 
stem the okras and slice into thin 
layers of half an inch each. Put the 
lard and butter into the soup kettle; 
when hot, add the chicken and ham. 
Cover closely and let it simmer ten 
minutes. Then add the chopped 
onions, parsley, thyme, and tomatoes, 
stirring frequently to prevent scorch- 
ing. Add the okras, and when well 
browned, the juice of the tomatoes. 
The okra is very delicate and is lia- 
ble to scorch if not stirred frequent- 
ly. When well fried and browned, 
add about 3 quarts boiling water 
and set on the back of the stove to 
simmer for an hour longer. Serve 
hot with boiied rice. 

Beef Oumbo (Southern recipe). 

Another recipe for gumbo, which 
is similar to the preceding one, the 
manipulation being practically the 
same, calls for the following ingre- 
dients: 

1 quart tomatoes sliced, 

3 pounds beef cut in small 
pieces, 

S quarts okras sliced, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 

i pound corned ham or pork, 

cut up. 
Small piece red pepper without 

seeds. 
Spray parsley. 

Cream-of-Celery Soup. 
1 head celery, 

1 slice onion, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Clean outside stalks and white 
leaves of celery. Cut into smalt 
pieces and cook until tender in 3 
cupfuls water. Scald onion in milk 



74 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



in double boiler. Rub the celery, 
when soft, through a sieve. Blend 
together cornstarch with butter, cook 
for a few minutes, lifting from fire, 
beating and cooking in turn. Season 
with salt and white pepper to taste, 
gradually add the strained, scalded 
milk, cook thoroughly, then add the 
strained celery stock, and reheat. 
Serve with croutons, bread sticks, or 
toasted wafers. 

Cream-of-Corn Soup. 

1 can corn, 

2 cupfuls boiling water, 
I teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful celery salt, 
J teaspoonful onion juice, 
2J tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
3 cupfuls milk, 

1 cupful whipped cream. 

Rub corn through sieve into a 
saucepan, add water, salt, celery salt, 
and white pepper to taste. Blend 
together in a saucepan cornstarch, 
with butter, gradually add the milk, 
and cook together five minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Just before serv- 
ing add beaten cream. Serve with 
crisp wafers. 

Leek Soup. 

3 quarts boiling water, 

2 cupfuls leeks cut fine, 

4 cupfuls potatoes cut in dice, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 teaspoonf uls salt, 

i teaspoonful pepper, 

4 slices stale bread cut in small 
pieces, 

4 tablespoonfuls minced onion. 

Wash the leeks and cut off the 
roots. Cut the white part in thin 
slices. Pare the potatoes and cut in 
dice, put them in a bowl of cold 
water. Put the butter, leeks, and 
onion in the soup pot and on the fire. 
Cook slowly twenty minutes, stirring 
frequently, then add the hot water, 
potatoes, and seasoning, and cook at 
least half an hour longer. Serve 
very hot. If it is Qonyenieut and 



liked, cook with the leeks and butter 
the white stalks of 4 or 5 cibols, 
or 1 shallot may be cut fine and 
cooked with the leeks. — ^Maeia Pab- 



Hotchpotch (Scotch recipe). 

3 pounds lean beef, 
3i quarts stock, 

1 cupful beans (green), 

2 carrots, 

3 onions, 

2 stalks celery, 

2 turnips, 

1 small cauliflower, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce. 

Mince the beef in chopper, and 
place in a stewpan with stock and 
beans. When these come to a boil, 
add chopped carrots, onions, celery, 
turnips, and cauliflower; cover, and 
boil gently for three hours. Melt 
butter and mix with it the flour; let 
it brown, dilute with a little broth, 
and add to the stew. Season with 
salt, pepper, and tabasco. 

Cream-of-Onion Soup. 

3 large onions, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful white pepper, 

2 cupfuls boiling water, 
1 quart milk, 

1 cupful mashed potatoes, 
1 cupful croutons. 

Slice the onions and fry until 
lightly brown in butter, then add 
cornstarch, flour, salt, and pepper. 
Stir until slightly browned, but do 
not allow to burn. Pour in gradu- 
ally boiling water, and cook untU 
smooth. Keep hot. Scald milk, pour 
it gradually on mashed potatoes. 
Combine the mixtures. Simmer and 
stir for a few minutes, add croutons, 
cover, and let stand a moment be- 
fore serving. 



SOUPS 



75 



Soup KTorniandie (French recipe). 

1 onion, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 cans tomatoes, 

1 quart cold water, 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 
12 cloves, 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce, 
Salt and pepper. 

Fry the onion in butter (do not let 
brown), add tomatoes and water. 
Boil twenty minutes. Strain through 
a colander, set back on stove, and 
add cornstarch dissolved in water, 
cloves, salt, and sugar. Let boil five 
minutes, then season with tabasco. 
Serve with croutons. 

Dried-Bean Soup. 

2 cupfuls dried beans, 
4 quarts water, 

1 large onion minced fine, 
4 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 

1 tablespoonful minced celery or 
a few dried celery leaves, 

J teaspoonful peppers, 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

Wash the beans and soak them 
over night in cold water. In the 
morning pour off the water and put 
them in the soup pot with 3 quarts 
cold water. Place on the fire, 
and when the water comes to the 
boiling point, pour it off. Add 4 
quarts boiling water to the beans and 
place the soup pot where the con- 
tents will simmer for four hours. 
Add the celery the last hour of cook- 
ing. Cook the onion and drippings 
slowly in a stewpan for half an hour. 
Drain the water from the beans (save 
this water) and put them in the stew- 
pan with the onions and drippings. 
Then add the flour and cook half an 
hour, stirring often. At the end of 
this time mash fine and gradually 
add the water in which the beans 
were boiled until the soup is like 
thick cream. Then rub through a 
sieve and return to the fire; add the 



salt and pepper, and cook twenty 
minutes or more. Any kind of beans 
may be used for this soup; Lima 
beans give the most delicate soup, 
but the large or small white beans 
are very satisfactory and are less ex- 
pensive than Limas. In cold weather 
the quantities of beans and flavor- 
ings may be doubled, but only 6 
quarts water are used. The result- 
ing thick soup can be kept in a cold 
place and a portion boiled up as re- 
quired and thinned with meat stock 
or milk. — Mabia Parloa. 

Bouillabaise (English recipe). 

Take 3 pounds cod, cut in pieces 
from 2 ounces to 1 pound each. Slice 
2 good-sized onions and place them 
in a stewpan large enough to contain 
all the fish at the bottom. Add 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls olive oil; fry the onions 
light brown; put in the fish with as 
much warm water as will cover it 
well, a teaspoonful salt, dash pepper, 
half bay leaf, peeled lemon cut in 
dice, 2 tomatoes cut in slices, a few 
peppercorns, and i clove garlic. Boil 
till the liquor is reduced to one third. 
Then add a tablespoonful chopped 
parsley, let it boil one minute longer, 
and pour into a tureen over crou- 
tons. This is also good made from 
any white fleshed fish; the garlic may 
be omitted, if preferred. 

Oxtail Soup. 

I small oxtail, 

6 cupfuls brown stock, 

J cupful carrot cut in fancy 
shapes, 

i cupful turnip cut in fancy 
shapes, 

i cupful onion cut in small 
pieces, 

i cupful celery cut in small 
pieces, 

i teaspoonful salt, \ 

Few grains cayenne, 

1 teaspoonful Worcester- 
shire Sauce, 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Cut oxtail in small pieces, wash, 
drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 



76 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



dredge with flour, and fry in butter 
ten minutes. Add to brown stock, 
and simmer one hour. Then add 
vegetables, which have been parboiled 
twenty minutes; simmer until vegeta- 
bles are soft; add cayenne, Worcester- 
shire sauce, and lemon juice. — Fan- 
xiE M. Fabmeb. 

Asparagrns Cream Soup. 
1 bunch asparagus, 
3 cupfuls milk, 

1 cupful veal stock, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Salt and pepper. 

Cook the asparagus in boiling, 
salted water for thirty minutes. 
Take from water, cut off tips, and 
put into soup tureen. Press pulp 
from stalks through sieve. Scald 
milk, add stock. Mix flour with but- 
ter in a saucepan over the fire, add- 
ing gradually portion of scalded 
milk to make very smooth. When 
thoroughly done, add remainder of 
milk and asparagus pulp. Season 
with salt and pepper. Stir till boil- 
ing, then strain into the tureen. 

Soup Uaigre (French recipe), 
6 cucumbers, 

4 heads lettuce, 

2 onions, blanched, 
1 cupftil spinach. 
Sprig mint, 

1 pint green peas. 

Small piece ham, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Put ham and vegetables into 2 
quarts water and boil four hours, 
then pass all through a sieve. When 
cooked to a purie, strain, put in 1 
pint parboiled green peas, and a few 
slices of cucumber. 



Puree of Celeriac. 

1 quart celeriac cut in dice. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

J cupful stock or cream. 



Cook the celeriac thirty minutes in 
boiling water, rinse in cold water, 
then press through a purie sieve. 
Put the butter in a saucepan on the 
flre. When hot, add the flour and 
stir until smooth and frothy, then 
add the strained celeriac, and cook 
five minutes, stirring frequently. 
Add the salt and stock, or cream, 
and cook five minutes longer. — ^Mabia 
Pabloa. 



Split-Fea Soup. 

1 cupful split peas, 

IJ quarts stock, 

I teaspoonful salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls minced onion, 

3 tablespoonfuls chopped celery, 

1 carrot. 

Place a saucepan with split peas 
and stock over the flre; when it boils, 
add salt,, onion, celery, and carrot; 
cover, and boil slowly until done; 
press the soup through the sieve; if 
too thick, add a little more water, 
season to taste with salt and pepper, 
and serve with small squares of fried 
bread. 



Green-Pea Soup. 

1 quart shelled peas, 
3 pints water, 
1 quart milk, 

1 onion, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 

3 level teaspoonfuls salt, 
J teaspoonful pepper. 

Put the peas in a stewpan with the 
boiling water and onion, and cook 
until tender, which will be about half 
an hour. Pour off the water, saving 
for use later. Mash the peas fine, 
then add the water in which they 
were boiled, and rub through a purie 
sieve. Return to the saucepan, add 
flour and butter, beaten together, 
and the salt and pepper. Now grad- 
ually add the milk, which must be 
boiling hot. Beat well and cook ten 
minutes, stirring frequently. — Mabia. 
Pabloa. 



SOUPS 



77 



Winter Okra Soup (a New Orleans 
recipe). 
1 can okra, 

1 can tomatoes, 

2 onions, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 dozen oysters, 

3 tablespoonfuls rice, 

1 red pepper pod without the 
seeds. 

Chop the onions and fry them in 
the butter. Wash the rice well, stew 
the onions, tomatoes, and pepper 
together in about 3 quarts water and 
1 pint oyster water for about three 
hours, stirring frequently. Ten min- 
utes before serving, add the okra 
and let it come to a boil. Then drop 
in the oysters, boil up once, and 
serve. 

Oyster Bisque. 

1 quart oysters, 

1 quart milk, 

i cupful bread crumbs, 

i bay leaf, 

1 sprig parsley, 

1 slice onion, 

I quart thin cream, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

4 yolks eggs. 

Parboil oysters in their own liq- 
uor until the edges curl. Drain 
and separate the hard part from the 
soft, chop the hard parts fine. Put 
the chopped oysters into a double 
boiler with milk, bread crumbs, bay 
leaf, parsley, and onion, and let cook 
half an hour. Rub through a pur^e 
strainer and return to fire with 
cream. Cream together butter and 
flour, and add gradually some of the 
hot soup. Add the soft parts of the 
oysters, season with pepper and salt, 
and pour into the tureen over the 
well-beaten yolks of eggs. Serve with 
crisp crackers, browned. 

lobster Sisque. 

2 pounds lobster, 
2 cupfuls cold water, 
4 cupfuls milk, 
i cupful butter, 



i cupful flour, 

li teaspoonfuls salt. 

Few grains cayenne. 

Remove meat from lobster shell. 
Add cold water to body bones and 
tough end of claws, cut in pieces; 
bring slowly to boiling point, and 
cook twenty minutes. Drain, reserve 
liquor, and thicken with butter and 
flour cooked together. Scald milk 
with tail meat of lobster, finely 
chopped; strain and add to liq- 
uor. Season with salt and cayenne; 
- then add tender claw meat, cut in 
dice, and body meat. When coral is 
found in lobster, wash, wipe, force 
through fine strainer, put in a mor- 
tar with butter, work until well 
blended, then add flour, and stir into 
soup. If a richer soup is desired, 
white stock may be used in place of 
water. — Fannie MEnairr Fabmer. 

Corn Chowder. 

1 can corn, 

1 quart potato cubes (par- 
boiled), 

1 tablespoonful chopped fat 
pork, 

1 sliced onion, 

1 quart scalded milk, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Salt and pepper. 

Put the corn through a meat chop- 
per, fry the onion and the pork a 
light brown, strain the fat into a stew- 
pan, add the corn, potato cubes, the 
milk, seasoning, and butter, thicken 
with a little flour, and pour over split 
crackers. 

Lobster Chowder. 
1 pound lobster, 
1 quart milk, 
3 crackers, 
i cupful butter, 
1 teaspoon ful salt, 
i teaspoonful white pepper, 
i teaspoonful cayenne pepper. 

Boil 1 quart milk. Roll 3 crack- 
ers fine; mix with them i cupful but- 
ter, and the green fat of the lobster. 



78 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Season with 1 scant teaspoonful 
salt, i teaspoonful white pepper, and 
i teaspoonful cayenne pepper. Pour 
the boiling milk gradually over the 
paste. Put it back in the double boil- 
er ; add the lobster meat cut into dice ; 
let it boil up once, and serve. — Mahy 
J. Lincoln. 

Sorrel Soup (French recipe). 
3 pints boiling water, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
J cupful shredded sorrel, 
3 tablespoonfuls milk, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Yolk 2 eggs, 
J cupful bread cut in dice and 

dried in the oven or fried in 

butter. 

Tear the tender green parts from 
the midribs of the cultivated sorrel; 
wash in cold water and shred very 
fine. Put half the butter in a stew- 
pan and add the shredded sorrel. 
Place on the fire and cook five min- 
utes, stirring frequently. Now add 
the boiling water and salt, and boil 
ten minutes. Beat the yolks of eggs 
well, add the milk, pour into the soup 
tureen, and add the remaining half 
of the butter cut into bits. Gradu- 
ally pour the boiling hot soup in the 
tureen, stirring all the while to com- 
bine the hot mixture with the egg 
yolk. Add the bread dice, and serve. 
— Maria Pahloa. 

Black-Beau Soup. 

1 pint black beans, 
3 quarts cold water, 

1 small onion, 

2 stalks celery or J teaspoonful 
celery salt, 

i tablespoonful salt, 
i teaspoonful pepper, 
i teaspoonful mustard. 
Few grains cayenne, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
IJ tablespoonfuls flour, 
2 hard-boiled eggs, 

1 lemon. 

Soak beans over night; in the 
morning, drain and add cold water. 



Slice onion, and cook five minutes 
with half the butter, adding to the 
beans, with celery stalks broken in 
pieces. Simmer three or four hours, 
or until beans are soft; add more 
water as it boils away. Rub through 
a sieve, reheat to the boiling point, 
and add salt, pepper, mustard, and 
cayenne well mixed. Bind with re- 
maining butter and flour cooked to- 
gether. Cut eggs in thin slices, also 
lemon, removing seeds. Put in tu- 
reen, and strain the soup over them. 
— Fannie Meeeitt Faemeh, 

Chicken Chowder. 

Take the remains of a stewed 
chicken, cut the meat off the bones 
and with a scissors clip it into small 
pieces; put the bones in a kettle with 
cold water, adding any left-over 
chicken gravy, and let them stew till 
all the good is out of the meat. 
Strain, add 1 quart milk to each 
quart chicken stock, a tablespoonful 
minced onion, fried with a table- 
spoonful salt pork, 2 cupfuls par- 
boiled potato cubes, 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter, the cut-up chicken, and flour 
enough to thicken slightly; salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Clam Soup. 

i peck clams in shells, 

Salt to taste, 

1 teaspoonful pepper, 

J teaspoonful cayenne pepper, 

1 tablespoonful chopped onion, 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 cupfuls milk or cream. 

Prepare the clams by boiling in 
the shells, and cutting as directed for 
clam chowder, keeping the soft part 
separate from the hard. Pour off 1 
quart clam liquor after it settles, be- 
ing careful not to take any of the 
sediment; put it on to boil, and re- 
move the scum. Add 1 pint hot wa- 
ter, and season to taste with salt, pep- 
per, cayenne, onion, and parsley. 
Put in the hard part of the clams. 
Simmer fifteen minutes, strain, and 



SOUPS 



79 



boil again, and when boiling thicken 
with flour cooked in the butter. Add 
the hot milk or cream and the soft 
part of the clams; serve at once. 

Another method of preparing clam 
soup, if needed quickly, is to heat 
the clam broth to a boiling point, 
add the clams cut fine, season, and 
pour into the tureen over 2 eggs 
beaten up with boiling milk, — ^Mart 
J. Lincoln. 

Onion Chowder. 

3 quarts boiling water, 

2 cupfuls minced onion, 

1 quart potatoes cut in dice, 

3 teaspoonfuls salt, 

i teaspoonful pepper, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful fine herbs. 

Cook the onion and butter to- 
gether for half an hour, but slowly, 
so the onion will not brown. At the 
end of this time, add the boiling wa- 
ter, potatoes, salt, and pepper, and 
cook one hour longer, then add the 
fine herbs, and serve. — Mabia Pae- 



Sportsman's Broth (English recipe). 
Take grouse, partridge, or any other 
game you have; cut in small joints, 
put them into a pot with water and 
plenty of vegetables whole. Let it 
stew slowly four or five hours; then 
take the best pieces you have saved 
out, season them and toss in a little 
flour; brown over a quick fire, and 
add to the strained stock with 12 
small onions, 2 heads celery, sliced, 
and half a cabbage shredded fine, 
to stew slowly till tender. Half an 
hour before serving, add 6 potatoes 
cut in slices. 

Clam Chowder. 

i peck clams in shells, 

1 quart potatoes sliced thin, 

A 2-inch cube fat salt pork, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful white pepper, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 quart milk, 

6 butter crackers. 



Wash clams with a small brush, 
and put in a kettle with i cupful 
water. When the clams at the top 
have opened, take them out with a 
skimmer, and when cool enough to 
handle, take the clams from the 
shells; remove the thin skin; cut off 
all the black end (cut the "leather 
straps" into small pieces), leaving 
the soft part whole. Let the clam liq- 
uor set, and pour it off carefully. 
Use half water and half clam liquor. 
Fry the pork and onion; add the po- 
tatoes, which have been soaked and 
scalded, and boiling water to cover. 
When the potatoes are soft, add the 
clam liquor, seasoning, and clams; 
when warmed through, add the hot 
mUk, and turn into the tureen over 
broken crackers. — Mart J. Lincoln. 

Old-fashioned Bean Soup (New 
England recipe). 

2 cupfuls white beans, 

3 pints cold water, 

4 ounces lean salt pork, 
i cupful chopped celery, 
i carrot, 

1 onion. 

Soak beans for several hours in 
cold water; then drain and put them 
with the pork over the fire; wash and 
scald in boiling water; add to the 
beans as soon as they boil celery, 
carrot, and onion; cover and cook till 
the beans are tender; then strain the 
soup, season to taste with salt, and 
serve with small pieces of toasted 
bread. This soup may be served 
without being strained — some people 
prefer to have the beans whole in the 
soup. A little beef extract and J cup- 
ful cream is always an improvement, 
but the soup is very nice without 
them. 

Herb Soup. 

1 cupful finely shredded spin- 
ach, 
i cupful shredded sorrel, 
i blanched and sliced leek. 
White heart leaves head lettuce, 
4 potatoes, 
3 teaspoonfuls salt. 



80 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful chervil, 
3 quarts boiling water, 
i pint croutons. 

Have the sorrel, spinach, and let- 
tuce fresh, tender, and free from 
tough midribs. Wash and shred. 
Cut the washed leek into thin slices. 
Put in the stewpan with the butter 
and cook fifteen minutes, being care- 
ful not to brown. Now add the po- 
tatoes, salt, and boiling water. When 
the soup begins to boil, draw the 
stewpan back where the contents will 
cook gently for one hour. At the 



end of this time, crush the potatoes 
with a fork, add the chervil, and 
simmer five minutes longer. Turn 
into the soup tureen, add the crou- 
tons, and serve. If preferred, the 
soup maj be rubbed through a 
purie sieve, returned to the fire, and 
when boiling hot be poured on the 
yolks of 2 eggs which have been 
beaten with 3 tablespoonfuls milk. 
This soup may be varied indefinitely. 
Any number of green vegetables can 
be employed in making it, care be- 
ing taken to use only a small quan- 
tity of those of pronotmced flavor. — 
Maria Paiiix)a. 



CHAPTER X 



FISH 



I CAN think 6f no better lesson on 
how to choose fish than this: if it is 
possible in your neighborhood, or 
while vacationing, go to see a fish 
boat empty its gleaming cargo on the 
wharf. Learn to know the earmarks 
— not only those left by St. Peter on 
a haddock, but the signs of perfect 
freshness on all fish. Do not be 
afraid of touching them; fresh smelts 
have the fragrance of violets, and 
every fish has a wholesome smell. 
Turn them over, examine them close- 
ly. " An eye like a dead fish " refers 
to a fish which has lain for weeks in 
cold storage, not to one just from 
the water. It will have eyes as full 
and almost as clear as any live crea- 
ture. Notice the gills; they will be 
beautifully red, the fins will be stiff, 
the scales shining, and the flesh so 
firm that it springs back after the 
finger has been pressed into it. One 
cannot expect, especially if your 
home is some distance from the ocean 
or the great lakes, to find in the mar- 
ket fish as superlatively fresh as 
when lifted straight from the net. 
Still, to be fit for human food, they 
should not have lost much of their 
beauty. The signs to avoid are limp 
fins, dull eyes, pale, liver-colored 
gills, fiesh in which you leave a dent 
by an Impression of the finger, 
streaks of gray or yellow in the skin 
and flesh, and the slightest symp- 
tom of a disagreeable odor. If you 
have to make the choice between salt 
cod and a fish of this description, 
choose salt cod; it is infinitely more 
healthful; it does not contain a pos- 
sibility of ptomaine poisoning. 

When purchasing halibut or sword- 
fish, where the head and fins have 



been removed, the test is pearly 
white or shining gray skin, firm 
flesh, and a good odor. It is an ex- 
cellent rule never to buy fish which 
is out of season. If you want blue- 
fish in February or shad in Novem- 
ber, you can probably obtain it — a 
fish dealer will produce almost any- 




Garnishing a Planked Fish with Mashed 
Potato Squeezed Through Pastry Bag. 

thing from his refrigerator at any 
time of the year — but you may rest 
assured it has seen a repose of 
months in cold storage. If not really 
dangerous to eat, it will be flabby, it 
will go to pieces before it is cooked, 
and be lacking in flavor. It is an ex- 
cellent plan to post oneself thorough- 
ly on the fish which is in season all 
the year round and purchase accord- 
ing to the month. A dealer will as- 
sure one that fish which has been 
packed in ice ten days is in as ex- 
cellent condition as when fresh 
caught. I should say seven or eight 
days is the limit. After that time it 
will begin to lose its beautiful moth- 
er-of-pearl sheen. 

Although the old theory that fish 
is brain food has been exploded, the 



81 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



brain worker will iind what he most 
requires in a bountiful diet of fish. 
It is digestible food, which is not 
overstimulating or overnutritive. Both 
the poet and preacher will do bet- 
ter work on a dinner of broUed 
bluefish than on rare roast beef. Sal- 
mon, mackerel, and eels, which are 
exceedingly oily, are an exception to 
the digestible rule. They should be 
severely let alone by people of weak 
stomachs, while white fish may be 
classed as the most digestible of all 
fish. 

The shimmering array on the mar- 
ket stall is alluring and confusing, and 
the fish dealer is apt to be persuasive. 
It is no economy to be inveigled into 
buying a 5-poimd bluefish when 2 
pounds of halibut would have fed 
your family. Fish left over can be 
utilized nicely in many ways, but it 
is better not to have any; in simi- 
mer, cold fish has not remarkable 
keeping qualities. Decide when you 
order a fish how you will cook it. 
The fish dealer can prepare it for 
planking or broiling better than you 
can. The cheapest fish is not al- 
ways the most economiCEd. Five 
pounds of cod contains' about 3 
pounds of waste in the shape of skin, 
head, tail, and bone, while 3 pounds 
of halibut is solid fish with scarcely 
an ounce of waste. 

The cooking of fish depends large- 
ly on taste, for various methods ap- 
ply frequently and most appetizingly 
to the same fish. Take halibut, for 
instance. It may be baked, broiled, 
fried or boiled, and be quite as de- 
licious in one way as another. This 
rule is also true of cod, haddock, and 
nearly every kind of white-fleshed 
fish. What a cook or a fish dealer 
calls oily fish — this class contains 
bluefish, mackerel, herring, salmon, 
eels, and shad — are best suited for 
broiling, baking, or planking. They 
contain so much oil distributed 
through the flesh that it requires a 
dry, intense heat to make them pal- 
atable. Salmon is an exception to 
this rule, being at its best when 
boiled. An old saying declares. 



" Small fish should swim twice — once 
in water, once in oil." It is a good 
proverb for the cook to remember, 
because it applies well to every tiny 
fish; smelts, brook trout, perch, 
whitebait, catfish, simfish, bullheads, 
and everything in small finny things. 
Sometimes these small fish are 
sauted, but they are not so good nor 
so wholesome as when they " swim in 
oil." 

The fish which plank to perfection 
are shad, whitefish, mackerel, blue- 
fish, red snapper, and pompano. 
There are a number of real advan- 
tages to this method of cooking; it 
is so easy, it may be done in the hot 
oven of any coal or gas stove, the 
wood imparts a flavor to the fish, 
which can be obtained in no other 
way. Then there is no difScult task 
of sliding it from a broiler or bake 
pan to the platter, because it is the 
proper thing to ' send the plank 
straight to the table laid on a folded 
towel. If you have to prepare a fish 
for planking, remember it must be 
cut down the back instead of the 
stomach, the thin portion of the flesh 
being folded on the middle of the 
plank. 

Improvise a fish kettle if you 
haven't one. Line a wire basket 
with a napkin, allowing the linen to 
fall over the edges, put in the fish, 
coiling it slightly if it is large, and 
drop the basket in a. kettle of boiling 
water. This is an easier method for 
lifting it out whole than if set right 
in the kettle. 

An oily fish, such as mackerel or 
bluefish, needs no enrichment of fat 
before broiling; a white-fleshed fish 
does. If it is cut in steaks, dip it 
in oil or melted butter and a good 
seasoning of pepper and salt, then 
put between the wires of the broiler. 
Lay the thickest end in the center 
of the broiler over the hottest part 
of the fire, skin side up. Let it get 
perfectly crisp and brown on the 
flesh side before turning. Broil the 
skin side carefully; it is apt to burn. 
Set it in a hot oven for five minutes 
to thoroughly finish cooking. 



FISH 



83 



Fish of all sorts reqviires the ac- 
companiipent of a starch food to 
make a well-balanced meal; it may 
be bread, rice, potatoes, or macaroni. 

An iron fish sheet, with rings at 
each end for handles, may be made 
by any tinsmith for twenty-five cents. 
Grease it well before setting the fish 
to cook and lay under it strips of 
salt pork, then set in a baking pan. 
You will find it easy to slip a baked 
fish from this sheet on a platter. 

When baking halibut, pour milk 
over and around it before setting in 
the oven. It keeps the fish moist, im- 
proves the flavor, and makes it 
brown more thoroughly. 

In spite of careful watching, a fish 
will occasionally break in the boil- 
ing. Do not try to patch it together 
into an unsightly heap of skin, 
bones, and meat. Flake it quickly 
and lay in good-sized portions on a 
large platter. Garnish with roses of 
mashed potatoes squeezed from a pas- 
try bag, and over the fish pour a 
sauce. This transforms an almost 



hopeless failure into a most attract- 
ive dish. 

The same general rules for vari- 
ous methods of cooking fish apply to 
all kinds; they may be boiled, fried, 
sauted, planked, broiled, or baked. 
Of course, after cooking by any proc- 
ess, a dish may be varied by one of 
the sauces which are to be found in 
a following chapter. 

For highly flavored fish, such as 
shad or salmon, use the simplest 
sauce; drawn butter or egg sauce is 
much more appetizing than a rich 
herb-seasoned, stock sauce, which is 
apt to destroy the fine flavor of fish. 
There are certain fresh-water fish, as 
weU as several white-fleshed varie- 
ties, cod, halibut, and haddock, for 
instance, that are ilnproved by a cer- 
tain amount of seasoning, only it 
must be done very carefully and with 
an educated palate as criterion. 

The following methods for cooking 
fish can be applied to anything that 
swims, though the table appended 
will serve as a guide: 



Methods fob Cooking Fish 



Bass May be baked, boiled, or broiled. 

Bluefish May be planked, baked, or broiled. 

Butterfish May be fried or sauted. 

Cod .May be boiled, broiled, or baked. 

Eels May be fried or broiled. 

Flounder May be baked, fried, or sauted. 

Haddock May be baked, broiled, planked, or boiled. 

Halibut. .'. May be baked, boiled, fried, broiled, or planked. 

Herring May be baked or broiled. 

Kingfish May be broiled. 

Blackfisb May be baked or broiled. 

Mackerel May be baked, broiled, or planked. 

Perch May be fried or broiled. 

Pickerel May be baked. 

Pompano May be broiled. 

Red Snapper May be fried or boiled. 

Salmon May be boiled, broiled, or baked. 

Shad May be broiled, baked, or planked. 

Sheepshead May be boiled or baked. 

Smelts May be sauted, baked, or fried. 

Trout May be baked, broiled, or sauted. 

Muskellunge May be baked. 

Turbot May be boiled. 

Whitefish May be planked, baked, or broiled. 

Sturgeon May be roasted, broiled, baked after being parboiled. 

Carp May be boiled or baked. 

Scrod May be broiled. 

Swordfish May be baked, broiled, or boiled. 

Mullet May be baked. 

Pike May be boiled. 

Whitebait May be fried. 

Porgies May be planked, broiled, or baked. 

Catfish May be fried. 

Alewives May be baked. 



84 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



How to Flank Fish. 

Heat and oil an oak plank made 
for the purpose; spread upon this, 
skin side down, a fish, dressed and 
cleaned and split down the under 
side; brush over with butter or oil, 
and set in the dripping pan in the 
lower gas oven, at first near the 
burners; after cooking a few min- 
utes, remove to the floor of the oven 
to finish cooking. Cook about twen- 
ty-five minut«s, basting often. Set 
the plank upon a platter. Spread 
over the fish 3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
creamed and mixed with salt, pepper, 
and a tablespoonful lemon juice. Gar- 
nish the edge of the plank with 
mashed potatoes, slices of lemon and 
parsley. 

How to Saute Tish. 

Fish may be fried in oil, salt pork 
fat, lard, or clarified drippings. 
Whatever fat is used, it should be 
deep enough to cover the fish and hot 
enough to brown a piece of bread in 
thirty seconds. The pork fat is ob- 
tained by trying out thin slices of 
fat salt pork, being careful not to let 
it burn. Pork gives the fish a flavor 
not to be obtained by any other oil or 
fat. When pork fat is used, salt 
should be added sparingly. Fried 
fish should be seasoned while cooking. 
After wiping dry, fish should be 
rolled in Indian meal, flour, or sifted 
crumbs before frying. If the fish has 
been on ice, or is very cold, do not 
put it in the fat fast enough to cool 
it perceptibly. Watch carefully while 
cooldng; don't break or mutilate in 
turning; cook brown, drain on a 
sieve, colander, or paper, and serve 
hot on a napkin. Unless fish are 
very small, they should be notched 
on each side before rolling in meal 
previous to frying. 

How to Broil Fish. 

Broiling is probably the simplest as 
well as the best method of cooking 
many kinds of fish, the flavor and 
juices being better preserved. Salt 
pork is the best thing to use. The 
double broiler is the best utensil. 



though they may be cooked on a grid- 
dle or a spider. Heat and butter well 
before laying in the fish, the flesh 
side first; when that is perfectly 
browned, turn and finish cooking. 
Serve on a hot platter, spread with 
butter or cream or both, and season 
to taste. A fish may be broiled in a 
dripping pan, and if the oven is hot 
it will cook nicely. Baste once or 
twice with butter or cream while 
cooking. 

How to Boil Fish. 

Boiling is the most insipid way of 
cooking fish, yet there are certain va- 
rieties that are better cooked this way 
if accompanied by a rich sauce. Fish, 
if boiled in a common kettle, should 
first be wrapped in cheese cloth, to 
preserve its shape. The head is the 
best part of a boiled fish, and the 
nearer the head the better the por- 
tions. Boiled fish should be served 
on a napkin and the sauce in a tu- 
reen. A fish of 6 pounds should boil 
or steam in thirty or thirty-five min- 
utes. The water should always be 
salted. A boiled fish may be stuffed 
if desired. 

How to Bake Fish. 

A baked fish presents a more at- 
tractive appearance when served in 
an upright position on the platter; it 
also cooks better. To keep it up- 
right, press it down enough to flatten 
the under side, then, if necessary, 
brace with skewers or potatoes placed 
against it until it is well under way 
for cooking, then it will keep its posi- 
tion until cooked and dished. Some- 
times it is advisable to bend the fish 
half-moon shape and cook it that 
way, or if the fish is long and slender, 
the tail may be tied to the mouth, 
either of which methods will keep 
the fish in upright position. 

How to Fry Fish. 

Small fish may. be broiled, but in 
nearly every case they are better 
sauted or fried. There are tiny fish, 
smelts for instance, which cannot be 
treated in any otlier way. Lard may 



FISH 



85 



be used as a frying material; a mix- 
ture of suet and lard is better, but 
best of all, if it can be afforded, is a 
clear frying oil, which leaves no 
greasy taste. To prepare a iish for 
frying, such as perch, brook trout, 
catfish, smelts, or tiny mackerel, 
wash in cold water, clean thoroughly, 
and wipe dry inside and out. Small 
fish must be gently handled; they are 
tender and the flesh bruises easily. 
Roll them in flour, then in beaten 
egg, to which a tablespoonful water 
has been added, and roll again in 
finely sifted bread crumbs. Have the 
oil boiling hot, put 4 fish at a time 
into the frying basket, and cook five 
or seven minutes. Do not allow them 
to get dark brown. Drop on absorb- 
ent paper and drain off as much of 
the fat as possible. Lay on a folded 
napkin on a hot platter, garnish with 
parsley and points of lemon. When 
smelts are very tiny, run a skewer 
through the heads of three or four of 
them and fry in bunches. Fish which 
is sliced, then cut in fillets, can be 
cooked in the same fashion. The 
easiest way to prepare it is to roll 
each fillet and fasten with a tooth- 
pick. 

Baked Bed Snapper. 

1 S-pound red snapper, 

1 beaten egg, 

i cupful powdered crackers, 

1 cupful oysters, 

1 teaspoonful onion juice, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful paprika, 

1 tablespoonful minced parsley. 

Draw, clean, and wipe the fish; rub 
inside and out with salad oil and lem- 
on. Make a stuffing of egg, cracker, 
oysters (drained and chopped), onion 
juice, butter, salt, paprika, and par- 
sley; moisten with cream and oyster 
liquor. Fill the fish and sew it up. 
Put a layer of minced fat pork on the 
covered roaster, lay a few slices of to- 
mato and onion on the pork, then the 
fish on this. Dredge with salt and 
flour, and put on more minced pork. 



Place in a hot oven, add a cupful 
boiling water, and cover. Baste fre- 
quently. Bake one hour. Serve with 
Sauce Hollandaise. 

Baked Fresh Cod with Cheese Sauce. 
Lay a slice of cod in salt and 
water for half an hour; wipe dry and 
rub with melted butter and lemon 
juice. In the bottom of the baking 
pan, under the grating and not 
touching the fish, have a cupful veal 
stock. Pepper and salt the fish, cover 
and bake ten minutes to the pound. 
Take up on a hot platter and sift fine 
crumbs over it.- Put dots of butter 
on these. Set in the oven to brown 
while you strain the gravy from the 
pan, thicken with browned flour, add 
the juice of J lemon, 4 tablespoonfuls 
grated Parmesan cheese, and a little 
onion juice. Boil one minute, pour a 
few spoonfuls carefully over the 
crumb crust of the fish, the rest into 
a boat. — Makion Habland. 

Baked Blueflsh. 

This recipe will answer for all sorts 
of fish. Have the fish opened at the 
gills, and the intestines drawn out 
through the opening. Make a stuffing 
of i pint bread crumbs, a tablespoon- 
ful melted butter, a teaspoonful salt, 
and a dash pepper. Mix the ingre- 
dients, fill the fish, and sew the head 
down firmly. If you use pork, cut 
the fish into gashes two inches apart 
and all the way across on one side 
down to the bone; fill the gashes with 
larding pork, dust the fish thickly 
with bread crumbs, baste it with a 
little melted butter, put J cupful wa- 
ter in the pan, and bake in a quick 
oven about an hour, basting fre- 
quently. Dish the fish carefully, gar- 
nish with parsley and lemon, and 
serve with brown or tomato sauce. — 
Mes. Roreb. 

Blueflsh Baked with Tomato Sauce. 
Prepare a fish of about 4 pounds, 
put in a buttered pan, cover with to- 
mato pulp, sprinkle liberally with 
bread crumbs, and dot with bits of 
butter. Place in oven forty minutes. 



86 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



until the flesh begins to separate 
from the back bone. 

Cod Steaks a la Cardinal (French 

recipe). 

Cut 3 pounds fresh cod into slices 
an inch thick; sprinkle with salt, pep- 
per, and lemon juice, fasten each 
slice with a toothpick to give it a 
neat shape. Brush the flsh with 
warmed butter, lay it on the bottom 
of a large saucepan, pour over it a 
cupful white stock, and cover closely, 
first with buttered paper, then with 
the pan lid. Simmer gently for 
twenty to twenty-five minutes, take 
skewers and arrange the fish neatly ■ 
on a hot dish; pour over it tomato 
sauce, flavored with essence of an- 
chovy; garnish round the edge with 
sprigs of fresh parsley and slices of 
lemon. 

Fillets of Flounder a la Normandy. 
Prepare the fillets and lay in a but- 
tered baking pan, season with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, mois- 
ten with brown stock, adding a tea- 
spoonful lemon juice; lay the fillets 
on serving dish, and pour over them 
Normandy sauce, garnish with slices 
of lemon. 

Baked Haddock. 

Stuff with a dressing, baste the fish 
with butter, put a cupful water into 
the pan, and bake in a moderate oven 
one hour, basting often; just before 
taking up, sprinkle a tablespoon ful 
cracker crumbs over the fish and let 
it remain in the oven long enough to 
brown delicately. Put the fish on a 
warm platter, add water and thicken- 
ing to the gravy, serve in a gravy tu- 
reen, garnish with parsley and sliced 
lemon. 

Fish Timbales. 

i pound halibut or other white 

flsh. 
Whites 5 eggs, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 cupful soft bread crumbs, 
J cupful milk, 
6 tablespoonfuls cream, 
1 saltspoonful white pepper. 



Put the uncooked fish through the 
meat chopper. Boil together, until 
you have a smooth paste, the milk 
and bread crumbs. When cold, add 
it gradually to the fish and press 
through a sieve; add the cream, salt, 
and pepper, and fold in carefully the 
well - beaten whites of the eggs. 
Grease small timbale molds with but- 
ter, and line the bottoms with paper; 
garnish with chopped truflle, mush- 
rooms, or green peas, or they may be 
used plain. Fill in the mixture; 
stand in a baking pan half filled with 
boiling water; cover the top with 
greased paper, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven twenty minutes. Serve with 
lobster, shrimp, or oyster crab sauce. 
— ^Mbs. Robeb. 

Baked Halibut. 

Take a square piece of flsh, weigh- 
ing 5 pounds, wash, wipe dry, and 
place in the dripping pan with a few 
thin slices of salt pork on top. Bake 
one hour; baste with melted butter 
and water. Stir into the gravy 1 ta- 
blespoonful Worcestershire Sauce, 
juice of 1 lemon, seasoning io taste, 
and thicken. Serve the gravy sepa- 
rately; garnish with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs. 

Baked Smelts. 

Dip in beaten egg, roU in cracker 
crumbs, season with salt, pepper, and 
a little nutmeg, lay on a sheet of but- 
tered paper in a buttered baking 
pan, put a piece of butter on each 
fish and bake delicately brown; serve 
on a hot dish, garnished with slices of 
lemon and parsley. 

Baked Salmon Trout with Cream. 

Wipe dry and lay in a pan with 
enough water to keep from scorching. 
Bake slowly an hour, basting with 
butter and water. Into a cupful 
cream stir 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls 
boiling water, add 2 tablespoonfuls 
melted butter and a little chopped 
parsley; add it to the gravy from the 
dripping pan in which fish was 
baked; lay the trout on n hot platter 
and let the gravy boU up once, then 



FISH 



87 



pour over the flsh; garnish with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Baked Shad. 

Stuff with a dressing; rub the fish 
with flour, lay in a pan with a few 
thin slices of pork on top. Bake a 
medium-sized fish forty minutes; 
add a little hot water, butter, pepper, 
and salt to the gravy; boil up and 
serve in gravy tureen. Garnish the 
fish with sprigs of parsley. A table- 
spoonful anchovy sauce is a decided 
improvement in making the gravy. 

Brochet of Smelts (French recipe). 

Spread melted butter in bottom of 
shallow baking dish, dredge with 
raspings of bread, season with salt, 
pepper, chopped parsley, and shal- 
lots; put in fish and pour over it a 
teaspoonful anchovy sauce; cover 
with melted butter and bread rasp- 
ings, and bake fifteen minutes. Serve 
hot; arrange the fish on a napkin, 
heads to heads, in center of dish, or 
lay them all one way in rows, each 
overlapping the next. Garnish with 
quartered lemon and fried parsley. 

Broiled Turbot (English recipe). 

Soak the fish in salted water to 
take off slime; do not cut off fins; 
make an incision down the middle of 
the back to prevent skin on the other 
side from cracking; rub it with lem- 
on and lay in a kettle of cold water; 
let it boil slowly; when done, drain, 
and lay on hot napkin; rub a little 
lobster coral through a sieve, sprinkle 
it over fish, garnish with sprigs of 
parsley and sliced lemon. Serve with 
lobster or shrimp sauce, or plain 
drawn butter. 

Baked Whitefish (Point Shirley 

style). 

Split the fish and lay open with the 
meat side up. Season with salt and 
pepper, and place in a baking pan on 
a bed of chopped salt pork. Bake in 
a quick oven, brushing it over with 
beaten egg and milk while cooking. 
Just before sending to the table, cover 
with crisp brown crumbs, made by 



frying grated bread crumbs in but- 
ter. Serve with oyster sauce. 

Crimped I'ish. 

Cut uncooked fish into long strips, 
roll them around the finger, and fas- 
ten each roll with a wooden toothpick. 
Put into boiling salted water with 2 
tablespoonfuls vinegar, and boU fif- 
teen minutes. Drain, arrange on a 
platter, and serve hot with oyster or 
lobster sauce poured into cavities. 

Codfish Soused in Oyster Sauce. 

Boil 3 slices fish; drain and dress 
upon a dish; blanch 3 dozen oysters 
by putting them into a stewpan with 
their juice; move them around occa- 
sionally, but do not let them boU. As 
soon as they become firm, place a 
sieve over a basin, pour in the oys- 
ters, beard and throw them into their 
liquor. Put them into a stewpan. 
When boiling, add 3 cloves, J blade 
mace, 6 peppercorns and 2 ounces 
butter, to which you have added a ta- 
blespoonful flour. Stir, season with 
salt, cayenne pepper, and essence of 
anchovies. Add a gill of cream, and 
pour the sauce over it. 

To Roast Sturgeon. 

Take the tail part, skin and bone 
it; fill the part where the bone comes 
from with stuffing, as for a fillet of 
veal; put buttered paper around it, 
and tie up like a fillet of veal. Roast, 
and serve with melted butter. 

Elouuders Souchet (French recipe). 

Take 4 or 6 flounders, trim and 
cut in halves; put i pint water in a 
saut6 pan with a little scraped horse- 
radish, pepper, salt, and sprigs of 
parsley; place over the fire, boil a 
minute, then add the flounders, stew 
ten minutes; take them out and place 
in a dish, reduce the liquor they 
were stewed in, pour over and serve. 

Hampton Court Perch (English rec- 
ipe). 

Clean the fish, dry well, and make 
an incision upon each side with a 
knife. Put 3 tablespoonfuls butter 



88 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



in a sautt pan over a slow fire, lay in 
the iish, season with salt, and saut6 
gently. When done, serve with the 
following sauce: Put 6 spoonfuls 
melted butter in a stewpan with a lit- 
tle salt and the juice of a lemon; 
when boiling, stir in the yolk of an 
egg mixed with a, tablespoonful 
cream. Add small pieces of lemon 
rind and shredded parsley to the 
sauce, pour it over the fish, and serve. 

Baked Shad Boe. 

Skin two large roes, sprinkle with 
salt, and stand half an hour. In the 
bottom of a baking pan put a layer 
of fine bread crumbs mixed with a 
chopped onion, chopped parsley, 6 
chopped mushrooms, melted butter, 
and a little lemon juice. Lay the roes 
on the crumbs, sprinkle with more 
crumbs seasoned and dressed like 
those in the pan. Over all pour a 
cupful white stock. Bake half an 
hour, drain off the liquid, sprinkle the 
roes with bread crumbs moistened 
with melted butter, put back in the 
oven for fifteen minutes to finish 



cooking and brown. Thicken the liq- 
uid that was poured off with flour 
blended with melted butter, and pour 
over the roes. 

Broiled Brook Trout. 

Wash and clean the fish, split and 
remove the backbone. Put a thin strip 
of bacon in each fish where the back- 
bone was, fold the fish together, 
brush with melted butter, and broil 
over a clear fire. Garnish with fried 
parsley, 

Pish Dressing. 

Either of the following recipes 
may be used to prepare a stufSng for 
any fish: 3 cupfuls bread or cracker 
crumbs, 1 cupful mashed potatoes, 1 
well-beaten egg, 2 tablespoonfuls but- 
ter, teaspoonful sage and savory, or a 
little thyme, and 1 dozen chopped 
clams or oysters; moisten with milk, 
salt, and pepper to taste. 

For a plainer dressing, use 1 pint 
bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls melt- 
ed butter, 1 raw egg, pepper, salt, 
and 1 tablespoonful celery seed. 



-^'i '' nS^i. ibi,S~~i^-n-- -^ 




CHAPTER XI 



FISH LEFT-OVERS 



Fob fish richaufis it is absolutely 
necessary to have a thorough knowl- 
edge of sauces. Stews and fricassees 
are foods that have been cooked in a 
sauce, and they are excellent methods 
for reheating fish. When fish left- 
overs come from the table, pick them 
over carefully before they cool and 
become gelatinized. Reject every 
bone, layers of fat or dark meat, and 
flake the eatable portions neatly. Put 
in a bowl, cover closely, and set in 
the refrigerator till required. Gener- 
ally a fish richaufi with a sauce calls 
for a small amount of fish stock. To 
obtain this, put the bones and poor 
pieces of fish — not the skin or fat — 
into a small saucepan, cover with 
cold water, allow to simmer slowly for 
a few minutes, then strain and cool. 
Never add salt to any fish without 
tasting, as it is very easy to over- 
season it. Croquettes are an excel- 
lent method for using up scraps of 
iish, especially salmon or any white- 
fleshed fish. When heated in a sauce, 
it can be served in ramequins or large 
scallop shells which are sold by the 
dozen in crockery stores. With a 
crust of brown crumbs, these individ- 
ual dishes are very attractiye. De- 
licious curries, soups, and deviled 
dishes may be prepared from cold 
fish. It can be combined with mashed 
potatoes and crumbs in a pie; it 
makes a tempting louffli or excellent 
timbales, and may be used with cold 
potatoes for a relishing hash. Save 
even a few spoonfuls of any sauce ac- 
companying fish. Half a cupful egg, 
tomato, shrimp, oyster, or plain white 
sauce adds much to the flavor of fresh 
sauce used for reheating a dish. If 
the amount of fish is scant, add 2 or 
3 hard-boiled eggs, using them as a 



garnish or cutting the white in rings 
and squeezing the yolk through a po- 
tato ricer and sifting it over the top 
of the dish. Sometimes there are 
small left-overs of cooked oysters or 
clams. If the oysters are in a milk 
stew, strain off the liquor and save it. 
It may be enriched by a spoonful of 
butter or J cupful cream. Season 
well and heat in the double boiler, 
then add the oysters, but only just 
long enough to heat them. More than 
a minute will overcook them. Oysters 
or clams which have been cooked in 
any way may be deviled, curried, or 
used in rissoles or chops. Chop 
coarsely a cupful cold scalloped 
oysters with a well-beaten egg and 
shape into croquettes. Flour, egg, 
crumb, and fry. Lobster meat can 
be utilized in almost any receipt that 
calls for that excellent shellfish, or 
converted into delicate lobster soup. 
The smallest amount of fish or shell- 
fish can be utilized for a sauce to ac- 
company baked fish, lobster, oyster, 
and shrimp being most suitable. 

Fish Bisque. 

2 cupfuls cold fish, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 teaspoonful parsley, 

1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 

Sauce, 
1 quart white or chicken stock, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

2 cupfuls hot milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls cracker crumbs, 
I teaspoonful salt. 
Dash cayenne. 

Mince the fish, add to it the but- 
ter, chopped parsley, Worcestershire 
Sauce, and stock. Bind with the but- 



89 



90 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



ter and flour cooked together. Add 
the milk, cracker crumbs and season- 
ings. 

Salmon Loaf. 

2 cupfuls salmon, 

1 cupful stale bread crumbs, 

1 teaspoonful onion juice, 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 

3 eggs. 

Flake the salmon fine, mix with the 
bread crumbs and seasonings, and 
moisten with the well-beaten eggs. 
Pack into a buttered mold and steam 
for two hours. Serve hot. Any left- 
over of this dish may be broken into 
small pieces, then served with mayon- 
naise; it makes a. palatable salad. 

Halibut Boudins. 

J cupful cold mashed potato, 

1 cupful cold halibut, 

i cupful soft bread crumbs, 
•'!" i teaspoonful pepper, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 egg, 

J teaspoonful onion juice. 

Mash the halibut, mix well with the 
other ingredients, and press through 
a potato ricer. Moisten with the 
beaten egg. Butter Dario molds and 
dust them with fine bread crumbs. 
Fill each mold with the fish mixture, 
set them in a pan of hot water, and 
bake twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve on a hot platter, pour a 
white sauce over them, and garnish 
with slices of hard-boiled egg. 

Kedgeree. 

1 cupful cold rice, 

1 cupful cold flaked fish, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 egg, 

Salt and pepper. 

Into a double boiler put the rice 
and fish and let them grow quite hot, 
stirring lightly so the fish may not 
break and the mixture grow pasty. 
When hot, add the butter, the egg 
unbeaten, salt, and pepper. Stir till 
well blended, and serve. 



Halibnt Bameqnins. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 
J cupful cream, 

i cupful fish stock, 

3 cupfuls cold flaked halibut. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Make a white sauce from the but- 
ter, flour, cream, and fish stock. Pep- 
per and salt to taste. Add the flaked 
fish and egg beaten thick. Pour into 
ramequins and cover the top with 
buttered crumbs. On top lay a ring 
of hard-boUed white of egg, and in- 
side each a sprig of water cress. 

Fish Friandises. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
1 cupful scalded milk, 

1 egg, 

2 cupfuls cold fish, 

li cupftils buttered crumbs. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, 
and milk. When it thickens, add the 
well-beaten egg. Take the remains of 
cold baked or boiled white-fleshed fish 
and separate it into flakes. Put a 
thin layer of butter crumbs into the 
bottom of a baking dish, cover with 
the flaked fish, sprinkle with salt, 
paprika, and nutmeg. Pour in a 
layer of sauce, then fish. Alternate 
in this fashion till the dish is filled, 
and cover with buttered crumbs. 
Bake for twenty minutes. 

CuTiied Salmon. 
i onion, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 teaspoonful curry powder, 
1 cupful hot water, 
i tablespoonful flour, 
i tablespoonful tomato catsup. 
Salt and pepper to taste, 
1 cupful cold salmon. 

Pry the onion brown in the butter, 
sift in the curry and flour, pour the 
water in slowly, and stir till smooth. 
Add the seasoning, and last the sal- 
mon. Serve hot with toast. 



FISH LEFT-OVERS 



91 



Salmon CrocLuettes. 

3 cupfuls cold salmon, 

1 cupful cream, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 egg, 

Pepper and salt. 

Chop the salmon well, and make 
a, white sauce from the butter, flour, 
and cream. Cook and beat till smooth 
and creamy, then add the salmon and 
seasonings. Just before taking from 
the fire, add 1 well-beaten egg, and 
spread on a buttered plate. When 
quite cool, roll into small croquettes 
with flattened ends, flour, egg, crumb, 
and fry in deep boiling lard. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

1 cupful chopped lobster, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful mustard. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce, 
J cupful cream sauce. 

Stir the lobster and seasonings into 
the hot cream sauce and spread on «. 
plate to cool. Shape into tiny pyra- 
mids. Into the small end of each 
croquette stick a few inches of maca- 
roni or a. lobster claw. Fry in deep 
fat. Garnish with parsley or water 
cress. 

Fish Pnff Balls. 

1 cupful cold flaked fish, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

I cupful flour, 

1 cupful boiling milk, 

3 eggs. 

Pepper and salt. 

Make a white sauce with the milk, 
flour, and butter. Season with pep- 
per and salt. When it has thickened, 
stir in the fish, then the well-beaten 
eggs. Fry a tablespoonful at a 
time in smoking hot fat, fritter 
fashion. 



i teaspoonful white pepper, 
i cupful olive oil, 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Flake the blueflsh neatly and mar- 
inate for an hour with a French 
dressing made from the oil, vinegar, 
and seasonings. Arrange on a nest 
of lettuce, and serve with mayon- 
naise garnished with chopped olives. 

Clam Salad. 

2 cupfuls cold clams, 

1 cupful shredded lettuce. 

Use for this salad cold steamed 
clams or left-overs from a Rhode 
Island bake. Take off the black 
heads and remove the skins. Serve in 
a nest of shredded lettuce. Marinate 
for ten minutes with French dress- 
ing, then serve. 

Halibut Salad. 

2 cupfuls cold halibut, 

1 cupful shredded lettuce, 
J cupful cold boiled potatoes. 

Flake halibut into small pieces. 
Shred the lettuce with scissors. Cut 
the potato into half-inch cubes. Mix 
fish and potato lightly. Lay in a 
nest of lettuce, and pour over it 
French dressing. 

Salmon Salad Kolds. 

1 cupful cold salmon, 

J tablespoonful lemon juice, 

i teaspoonful parsley, 

3 drops Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce, 

1 tablespoonful gelatin. 

Mix the salmon, lemon, parsley, ta- 
basco, and gelatin, dissolved in a lit- 
tle water, with enough salad dressing 
to moisten. , Wet J dozen Dario 
molds. FiU with salmon, level the top 
of each one, place on ice, and turn 
out on lettuce leaves. Serve with a 
mayonnaise. 



Blnefish Salad. 

3 cupfuls cold flaked blueflsh, 

i teaspoonful salt, 



Spiced Fish. 

Cold salmon, halibut, or shad 
makes tasty dishes when flaked and 



92 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



covered with hot spiced vinegar and 
left a day before serving. Cold fried 
fish is excellent served very cold. 
Spanish mackerel is nice in this way. 
Any kind of catsup or salad dress- 
ing may be served with it, but it is 
quite palatable with bread and but- 
ter, and makes a change from cold 
meat. 



HOW TO COOK SALT FISH 

Stuffed Salt Uackerel. 

Freshen 2 fish by soaking six or 
eight hours, wipe, dry, and squeeze 
lemon juice over the flesh side. Lay 
1 fish in the bottom of a baking pan, 
and cover with a thick dressing 
made of bread crumbs well seasoned 
with parsley, pepper, 9alt, butter, and 
bits of thin lemon peel. Lay the 
other fish on this dressing and baste 
with melted butter and hot water. 
Bake imtil brown, remove to a hot 
platter without disturbing the layers, 
and cover the top with bread crumbs 
moistened in melted butter and baked 
brown. Garnish with parsley. 

Baked Salt Uackerel. 

Soak the mackerel in cold water 
over night, placing the split side 
down. Cut off the fins and tail. 
Wash and put in a baking pan with 
the split side up. Mix a teaspoonful 
flour with a little milk and stir into 
J pint milk. Pour this over the 
mackerel, and bake in a moderate 
oven for half an hour. Just before 
the fish is done, add a teaspoonful 
butter. 

Boiled Salt Mackerel. 

Soak the mackerel over night; 
wash and put in a flat saucepan; 
cover with hot water, and cook slow- 
ly twenty minutes. Serve with cream, 
butter, egg, tomato, brown, or par- 
sley sauce. 

Broiled Salt Hackerel. 

Soak over night; wash and wipe. 
Broil over clear coals for twelve min- 
utes. Put the split side over fire 



first. Season with butter, and serve 
hot. 

Broiled Salt Salmon or Halibut. 

If iish is very salt, freshen for an 
hour or two in cold water; if merely 
smoked and slightly salted, wash and 
cut in small pieces about an inch 
thick. Season well with pepper and 
salt, and wrap each slice in tough 
paper well buttered. Twist the ends 
so the fish is inside a paper bag. 
Put in a broiler, and move over a 
clear fire for about eight minutes. 
Take the fish from the paper cases 
and pour egg sauce over it. 

Codfish Fritters. 

Cut the codfish into strips about 
the size of a finger, freshen by soak- 
ing over night in cold water; in the 
morning, dry between towels. Dip 
each piece in fritter batter, and fry 
delicately brown in hot fat. 

Codfish and Potato Omelet. 

Make a potato-and-fish mixture ex- 
actly as if for fishballs, but leave out 
the egg. Try out some salt pork in 
a spider, and in the dripping put the 
fish and potato to cook. When well 
browned, fold in omelet fashion, and 
turn out on a, hot platter. 

Creamed Salt 6odfish. 

Pick salt codfish in pieces (there 
should be i cupful) and soak in luke- 
warm water. Drain, and add 1 cup- 
ful white sauce. Garnish with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs. 

Salt Codfish (Creole style). 
1 pound boneless codfish, 
i cupful rice, 
S tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 can tomatoes, 
1 onion, 

i teaspoonful salt, 
1 saltspoonful pepper. 

Wash and soak the codfish over 
night. When ready to serve, put the 
buttfsr and onion in a saucepan; 
cover and cook on the back part of 



FISH LEFT-OVERS 



the stove until the onion is soft, not 
brown. Drain the codfish, add it and 
the rice, which has been boiled for 
twenty minutes; pour over the toma- 
toes strained; cover the saucepan, 
and cook gently twenty minutes. 
When ready to serve, add salt and 
pepper, push the rice aside and dish 
the fish first; put on top of it the 
rice, and pour over the sauce. — ^Mhs. 

ROREB. 

Salt Fish (Nantucket style). 

Freshen cod for twenty-four hours, 
changing water four or five times. 
Place in a kettle with cold water; as 
soon as it boils, remove to back of 
range and simmer forty-five minutes. 
Serve on a warm dish, with generous 
lumps of butter (melted by heat of 
fish) and boiled potatoes. 

Salt-Codfish Chowder. 
3 cupfuls milk, 

1 cupful shredded codfish, 
IJ cupfTils potato cubes, 
3 ounces salt pork, 

2 tablespoonfuls minced onion, 
1 teaspoonful pepper, 

1 tablespoonful flour. 
Salt, 

3 Boston crackers. 

Wash the fish and cut in two-inch 
lengths. Tear these in pieces, and, 
covering with cold water, soak for 
three or four hours. Slice the pork, 
and cook in the frying pan for ten 
minutes. Add the onion, and cook ten 
minutes. Now add the flour, and stir 
until smooth; afterwards stir in 1 
gill water. Put the potatoes in a 
stewpan and pour the mixture in the 
frying pan over them. Season with 
pepper and J teaspoonful salt. Place 
on the fire, and cook for ten minutes; 
then take out the slices of pork and 
add the fish, milk, and split crack- 
ers. Cook gently for half an hour, 
being careful to let the chowder 
only bubble at one side of the stew- 
pan. At the end of the half hour, 
taste before serving, to be sure to 
have it salt enough. — Miss Pabloa. 



Codfish Balls. 

1 cupful salt codfish, 
3i cupfuls potato cubes, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
Dash pepper, ' 

1 egg. 

Cut the fish in small pieces, put in 
a saucepan with the raw potato, and 
cover with boiling water. Let them 
cook until the potatoes are nearly 
soft. Drain thoroughly and put 
through the meat chopper. Stir in 
the butter, the well-beaten egg, and 
pepper, beat with a fork until light 




WafHe Iron and Waffles cm Plate. 

and fluffy, roll into balls. Dip in 
flour, fry in deep fat, and drain on 
brown paper. 

Souffle Codfish. 

2 cupfuls hot mashed potatoes, 

1 pound salt codfish, 

2 eggs. 
Dash pepper. 

Soak the codfish over night; in the 
morning, pick into thin fine flakes, 
drain, and dry in a towel; add to it 
the beaten potatoes, pepper, and yolks 
of eggs well beaten. Whip the mix- 
ture until light, then blend in the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Pile in a mound on a platter, 
and bake until delicately brown. 

Codfish with Macaroni. 
2 ounces macaroni, 
1 cupful strained potatoes, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 



94 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



J teaspoonful salt, 

J pound salt cod, 

1 tablespoonful onion juices 

1 tablespoonful flonr, 

1 saltspoonful pepper. 

Break macaroni in two-inch lengths, 
put in boiling water, boil rapidly for 
thirty minutes, drain, throw in cold 
water, and blanch fifteen minutes, 
then cut into pieces about half an 
inch long. Wash the codfish, cut it 
into blocks. It Is better to have it 
soaked over night. If you wish to 
use it in a hurry, cover with cold wa- 
ter, bring to boiling point, drain, 
throwing away the water, and cover 
again. Do this three times, and it will 
be sufficiently fresh. Rub the butter 
and flour together, add the tomato, 
stir until boiling, then add the maca- 
roni, fish, onion juice, salt, and pep- 
per. Mix until boiling; stand over 
the teakettle or in hot water for thir- 
ty minutes, and it is ready to serve. 
— Mrs. Roree. 

Toasted Codfish. 

Cut the fish in thin strips and 
freshen it. Dry, put between the 
wires of a broiler, and toast till deli- 
cately brown. Lay on a hot platter, 
and spread well with butter. 

Broiled Haddie (Scotch recipe). 

Select a small haddie, as they are 
more delicate than large ones. Put 
the fish in a dripping pan, skin side 
up, and bring slowly to the boiling 
point; drain, wipe dry, rub over with 
soft butter, salt, and lemon juice. 

Creamed Haddie (Scotch recipe). 

Trim the fins from a thick finnan 
haddie, cover with cold water, and let 



stand on the back of a range an hour, 
simmering slightly at the last. Drain 
carefully and set into a baking dish; 
pour over it a cupful milk; cover and 
set in the oven; cook ten minutes. 
Remove the fish to a serving dish and 
pour over the milk. Garnish with 
slices of lemon and pickles. 

Shredded Haddie. 

Braise 2 cupfuls finnan haddie that 
has been picked fine in a lump of 
butter the size of a walnut. Add 1 
cupful cream into which 1 table- 
spoonful flour has been rubbed 
smooth. Let it come to a boil, and 
when cooled a. little add 1 large ta- 
blespoonful grated cheese, a dash pep- 
per, and, just before serving, the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Serve on 
toast. 

Finnan Haddie a la Selmonico. 

Cut fish in strips (there should be 
1 cupful, put in baking pan, cover 
with cold water, place on back of 
range, and allow water to heat to 
boiling point. Stand on range, keep- 
ing water below boiling point for 
twenty-five minutes, drain, and rinse 
thoroughly. Separate fish Into flakes, 
add i cupful heavy cream and 4 hard- 
boiled eggs thinly sliced. Season with 
cayenne, add 1 tablespoonful butter, 
and sprinkle with finely chopped pars- 
ley. — Fannie M. Faemeb. 

Baked Salt Herring, 

Soak the herrings over night, roll 
in flour and butter, place in a drip- 
ping pan with a very little water over 
them; season with pepper, and after 
putting in the oven, baste frequently. 



CHAPTER XII 



SHELLFISH 



X'ried Clams. 

Select plump clams, dry them on a 
towel, roll in cracker crumbs, dip in 
egg, again in crumbs, and fry in hot 
fat; lay a sheet of paper in a colan- 
der and put the clams on this as fast 
as taken up; serve on a napkin. 

Clam rritters. 

Either whole clams or chopped 
ones may be used. Prepare a fritter 
batter, stir in the clams, using con- 
siderable clam liquor in making the 
batter. If whole clams are used, the 
large ones are best, having one in 
each fritter; when chopped clams are 
used, the fritters may be made any 
size. Drain, and serve on a, napkin. 

Quahog Cocktail (an individual serv- 
ice). 
6 tiny quahogs, 
1 tablespoonful clam liquor. 
Speck cayenne, 
1 teaspoonful groimd celery, 
1 teaspoonful tomato catsup, 
1 teaspoonful vinegar. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce, 
1 teaspoonful Worcester- 
shire Sauce. 

Put the quahogs in a glass with 
clam liquor, add cayenne, celery, to- 
mato catsup, vinegar. Tabasco and 
Worcestershire Sauce. Stir thor- 
oughly with fork. 

Koast Clams. 

Wash the clam shells thoroughly 
and drain in a colander. Spread 
them in a dripping pan and put in a 
hot oven. The shells will begin to 
open in five or eight minutes. Take 
from the oven, and, holding the shell 



over a warm dish, let the clam and 
juice drop out. Season with butter, 
salt, and pepper; serve very hot with 
thin slices of buttered brown bread. 

Clams a la Newburg. 
25 soft-shelled clams, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoon fid flour. 
Yolks 2 eggs, 
1 cupful cream. 

Put butter into a saucepan; stir 
until heated; add the flour, and cook 
until it thickens. Add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs with cream; beat 
well and pour over the clams; stir 
thoroughly until heated and cooked, 
but do not boil. 

Clams (Boston style). 
13 soft clams, 
I pound salt pork. 

Cut pork in pieces size of dice, and 
fry crisp. Add clams, freed from the 
tough part, and saut6 them in the 
pork fat. Serve on Boston brown 
bread. 

Clams in Vienna Kolls. 

Take a large Vienna roll, cut out a 
piece of the crust the size of a half 
dollar, and remove the soft bread 
from the inside. Open as many little- 
neck clams as will fill the roll, re- 
place the small piece of crust, and 
place in the oven for ten minutes. 
Take the juice from the clams, make 
a thickening of flour and the juice, 
mix with it paprika, black pepper, 
Worcestershire Sauce, a dash Mcll- 
henny's Tabasco Sauce, and heat. 
Remove the baked roll from the oven 
and pour sauce over it. 



95 



96 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Escalloped Clams. 
S5 clams, 

1 cupful cracker crumbs, 
J cupful milk, 

J cupful clam liquor, 

2 eggs (well beaten), 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
Salt and pepper. 

Season the clams highly, mix with 
crumbs moistened with milk and 
clam liquor; add eggs and melted 
butter and the clams chopped. Fill 
each shell, sprinlde with bread 
criunbs, and brown. This fills twelve 
shells. 

Santed Oysters. 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls butter into a 
saut6 pan; when it is hot add as 
many drained oysters as will make 2 
cupfuls. Add a little salt and pep- 
per and a tablespoonful lemon juice. 
Shake them in the pan until the giUs 
are curled, then add a tablespoonful 
parsley chopped fine. Serve on slices 
of toasted bread on a hot platter. 

Pried Oysters with Cold Slaw. 

Lay the oysters on a cloth to dry. 
Roll in cracker dust, then in egg di- 
luted with a little milk, season with 
pepper and salt, again cover with 
cracker dust. Lay in a frying bas- 
ket and fry in smoking hot fat long 
enough to give them a light-brown 
color. Oysters toughen if cooked too 
long. Prepare only 4 at a time ; more 
lower the temperature of the fat too 
much, and if they are rolled before 
the moment of frying, they moisten 
the cracker dust. Place them on a 
paper in the oven until they are done. 
Fold a napkin and place it in the 
center of a platter. Pile the oysters 
on the napkin, and make a wreath 
around them of cold slaw. 

Oysters a la Hewburg. 
25 large oysters, 
IJ tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt, 
i cupful mushrooms. 
Yolks 4 eggs, 
I cupful cream. 



Place the oysters in a saucepan 
with the butter, lemon juice, pepper, 
and salt. Cook until the oysters are 
plump, then add the mushrooms cut 
in quarters. Beat the yolks of the 
egg into the cream, turn it into the 
oyster mixture, let it get hot and a 
little thickened, without boiling. Turn 
it into a hot dish, and garnish with 
croutons. — ^Makt Ronaij). 

Oysters a la George Trimble David- 
son. 

Melt butter the size of 3 eggs, 
then pour in a quart oysters and the 
strained liquor, flavor with salt and 
pepper, a teaspoonful paprika, and a 
dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco. Cut up 
celery, put In 2 tablespoonfuls, and 
squeeze in the juice of i lemon. Cook 
four minutes, and serve on hot toast. 
A pint of rich cream added to the 
broth of the oysters makes the dish 
richer. — ^Deschlee Welsh. 

Oyster Rarebit. 

Clean and remove the hard mus- 
cles from a cupful oysters; parboil 
in their own liquor untU the edges 
curl, and remove to a hot bowl. Put 
1 tablespoonful butter, i pound 
cheese (broken in small bits), 1 salt- 
spoonful each salt and mustard, and 
a few grains cayenne into the chafing 
dish; while the cheese is melting, 
beat 2 eggs slightly, and add them 
to the oyster liquor; mix this gradu- 
ally with the melted cheese, add the 
oysters, and pour over hot toast. 

Oysters Encoquille (French recipe). 
Clean large oyster shells, into 
each put a couple of small oysters, 
and sprinkle with bread crumbs 
which have been peppered and salted 
and tossed in melted butter. Set the 
shells closely together in a baking 
pan, put in a hot oven, and bake till 
the crumbs are delicately browned. 
Serve a shell to each person on a 
smaU plate. Garnish with J lemoa 
and a sprig of parsley. 

Figs in Blankets. 

Dust large, plump oysters vrith 
pepper and salt, wrap each inside a 



SHELLFISH 



97 



thin slice of bacoii and skewer to- 
gether with a toothpick. Lay in a 
hot spider, cook till oysters begin to 
curl and the bacon crisps. Take out 
the toothpicks, and serve three or 
four on a slice of toast to each per- 
son. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Drain large oysters from the liq- 
uor, dip each in melted butter, dust 
with pepper and salt, then roll in 
sifted cracker crumbs. Grease the 
wires of an oyster broiler, lay the oys- 
ters in closely, and broil over a clear 
fire until the juice begins to flow. 
Serve on toast. 

Boasted Oysters in the Shell. 

Scrub the oyster shells thoroughly, 
lay them in a large roasting pan with 
the round side down, so they retain 
the juices as they cook. They may 
be roasted in a hot oven, on top of 
the stove, in a steamer, or under a 
blaze of a. gas stove. When the 
shells open, remove the upper shell 
and serve the lower shells, as many 
as will go on a hot plate, each one 
with a hot oyster in its own juice. 
Dust with pepper and salt and 
squeeze a dash of lemon juice over 
each. Serve immediately. If desired, 
they may be slipped from the shells 
upon slices of buttered toast and the 
juice poured over. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
1 pint oysters, 
J cupful melted butter. 
Pepper and salt. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce, 
1 cupful stale bread crumbs, 
i cupful milk. 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish 
with bread crumbs, and lay carefully 
over it the oysters lifted from the liq- 
uor. Cover with another layer of 
crumbs dusted with pepper and salt; 
then more oysters, and make the top 
layer crumbs. Strain the oyster liq- 
uor, add to it the tabasco, melted but- 
ter, and the mUk scalding hot. Pour 



it over the dish. Sprinkle over the 
top a layer of crumbs moistened with 
melted butter. Set it in the oven, 
and bake till the crumbs are brown. 

Creamed Oysters. 

1 cupful cream sauce, 
1 pint oysters. 

Make a cupful cream sauce, season 
with salt, pepper, paprika, and cel- 
ery salt. Pick over the oysters, and 
parboil in their own liquor until they 
begin to curl. Drain and add to the 
sauce. Serve on slices of buttered 
toast, in puff-paste patties, in vol-au- 
vent, or in croustade boxes. 

Oyster Pie. 

Line a deep dish with good puff 
paste, not too rich, roll out the upper 
crust and lay on a plate just the 
size of pie dish, set it on top of the 
dish and put into the 6ven, so the 
crust may be nearly cooked before 
the oysters are put in, for they re- 
quire less cooking than the crust. 
While the crust is baking, strain the 
liquor from the oysters and thicken. 
Add 3 tablespoonfuls butter and the 
same of cracker crumbs, season with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, or mace. Let 
the liquor boil, slip in the oysters, 
boil it up once, stir, remove plate 
with the crust, pour the oysters and 
hot liquor into the pie dish, put the 
top crust on, and return to the oven 
for five minutes. 

Cnrry of Lobster. 

I cupful lobster meat, 

1 cupful meat stock, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce, 
J teaspoonful white pepper, 
1 teaspoonful curry powder, 
1 tablespoonful minced onion, 

3 slices toast. 

Cut the lobster into small pieces 
and season with half the salt and 
pepper. Put the butter and onion on 



98 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



the fire in a frying pan, and cook un- 
til the onion turns straw color; then 
add the flour and curry powder and 
stir until brown. Gradually add the 
stock to this, stirring all the while. 
Season, and cook for three minutes. 
Strain this into a saucepan, and add 
the lobster. Cook for five minutes. 
Cut the slices of toast in strips and 
lay in a warm dish. Pour the lobster 
over these, and serve at once. 

Breaded Lobster. 
1 large lobster, 
1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 
J teaspoonful pepper. 
Dried bread crumbs. 
Fat for frying. 

Split the claws and tail and set 
aside. Take the meat from the large 
joints and body and chop fine. Mix 
with this J teaspoonful salt and 
2 tablespoonfuls tomalley. Shape 
into three small, flat cakes. Season 
the lobster with salt and pepper. Beat 
the egg in a soup plate. Dip the 
pieces of lobster and the little cakes, 
one at a time, into the egg; then roll 
in crumbs, and, after arranging on a 
plate, put in a cool place. Put the 
breaded lobster in the frying basket, 
and cook in fat until crisp and 
brown. Serve with Sauce Tartare. 

Lobster (French style). 

Chop an onion and put it in a 
stewpan with 2 ounces butter; fry 
light brown; mix with it a table- 
spoonful flour; add J pint milk, a 
teaspoonful salt, a little pepper and 
cayenne, nutmeg, and chopped par- 
sley. Boil till rather thick; put in 
lobster meat cut in pieces. Let it 
boil up, add yolk of an egg, and a 
little cream, mix quickly; fill the 
shells, egg and bread-crumb them; 
put in the oven for ten minutes; 
brown, and serve. 

Creamed Lobster. 

1 cupful lobster meat, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 teaspoonful grated onion, 



1 tablespoonful flour, 
1 cupful stock, 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 
J cupful cream. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Cut the lobster meat into inch dice. 
Put the butter in a saucepan with 
the grated onion, let them cook a 
minute, then add the flour. Stir for 
a few minutes, and add, slowly, the 
stock and lemon juice. When this 
thickens, add the lobster meat, turn- 
ing carefully so as not to break it. 
When the meat is heated, remove 
from the fire and mix cream with the 
yolk of an egg beaten in it. Replace 
on the fire for a minute, and serve 
on toast or in timbales. 

Rissoles of Lobster. 

Mince the meat from a boiled lob- 
ster, season with pepper, salt, and a 
little mace. Add 3 tablespoonfuls 
melted butter and some bread 
crimibs; roll into balls, dip in yolk of 
beaten egg, put more crumbs over 
them, and fry brown. 

Lang^osta a la Catalana (Mexican 

recipe). 

Remove lobster meat from the 
shell, lay it in a, bowl so as to save 
all the liquor, and cut in quarters. 
Chop 4 large onions and a bunch of 
parsley, mash 4 cloves of garlic, and 
fry together in J cupful olive oil un- 
til nearly brown. Season with salt 
and cayenne; add the lobster with 
the juice, a cupful washed rice, and a 
tablespoonful of capers. Cook until 
the rice is done. When serving, put 
whole pimentoes on top. — Mat E. 

SOUTHWORTH. 

Lobster a la Newburg. 
3 hard-boiled eggs, 
i pint cream or milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Put butter in saucepan, and 
when melted, add flour gradually, 
then cream or milk. Mash yolks of 
eggs and moisten with 2 tablespoon- 



SHELLFISH 



99 



fuls milk then add to ingredients in 
saucepan. Add salt and cayenne, and 
stir until thick and smooth. Add a 
cupful boiled lobster and the whites 
of the eggs cut in strips. 

Cangrejueloe (Mexican recipe). 
1 teaspoonful butter, 
J pound ham, 
1 onion. 
Dash salt. 
Dash chili powder, 
1 pint picked shrimps, 
J pint washed rice, 
1 bay leaf, thyme, and parsley. 

Put the butter in a saucepan; 
when hot, add the ham, chopped fine, 
onion, salt, and chill powder. When 
these are well browned, add the 
shrimps and stir until hot; then put 
in the washed rice and parsley. Cov- 
er and simmer with sufBcient water 
added to cook the rice until each 
grain stands out alone. 

Scalloped Scallops. 

Cut scallops into small pieces and 
mix with cracker crumbs, beaten 
egg, and a little milk or cream, sea- 
soning to taste. Fill shells, washed 
for the purpose, cover with crumbs, 
put a bit of butter on each, and bake 
delicately brown. 

I^ied Scallops. 

Marinate the scallops in a mixture 
of oil, lemon juice, salt, and pepper. 
Roll in cracker dust, then in egg, 
and again in cracker dust or white 
bread crumbs. Fry in smoking-hot 
fat to a golden color. 

Scallops on the Shell. 

Cut scallops into quarters, if large. 
Place them in the scallop shells. 



Dredge with salt, pepper, and chop- 
ped parsley, cover with chopped 
mushrooms, some bits of butter, a 
teaspoonful lemon juice for each shell, 
and bread crumbs moistened with 
butter. Place in a hot oven for ten 
or fifteen minutes. 

Soft-Shell Crabs. 

To prepare them for cooking, lift 
the shell at both edges and remove 
the gray, spongy substance, which 
can be plainly seen, then puH up the 
little triangular apronlike piece on 
under side of shell, wash and wipe 
the crabs dry, dip in milk, roll in 
flour, and fry in hot fat; or dip in 
beaten egg, roll in crumbs, and either 
fry or broil. 

Partan Pies (a Scotch dish). 

Pick the meat, after boiling from 
hard-shell crabs, clean the shells, mix 
the meat with a little pepper, a bit 
of butter, and bread crumbs; add 
3 spoonfuls vinegar and put into the 
shells again; strew bread crumbs 
over, and set them in the oven. Serve 
when brown on top. 

Crabs a la Creole (Southern recipe). 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 onion, 

1 sweet Spanish pepper minced, 
1 cupful strained tomato pulp, 
i cupful chicken broth, 
i soft crabs. 

Melt the butter, and cook for five 
minutes the onion and pepper; stir 
while frying, then add the tomato 
pulp, cWcken broth, and the crabs 
cleaned and cut in two. Use celery 
salt in the seasoning, and simmer 
seven minutes. 



CHAPTER XIII 



MEATS 



In- regard to meat more than any 
other food, it pays the housewife to 
do her own marketing. A study of 
the cuts laid out on a butcher's stall 
often reveals something good and 
cheap, which would not have been 
thought of if one were giving her or- 
ders to a clerk or over the telephone. 
During the past ten years meat has 
risen so steadily in price that roasts, 
chops, and steaks, on which the aver- 
age housekeeper was wont to rely, 
make a food bill appallingly high. 
But there are other pieces which pro- 
duce very savory dishes by careful 
cooking. 

The good marketer ought, first of 
all, to know at a glance not only the 
various cuts but the appearance of 
good, wholesome meat. When first 
killed, a side of beef is reddish pur- 
ple, but it changes fast to a bright- 
red tint, while the fat is a creamy- 
white color, not in chunks by itself 
but threaded, as it were, through the 
red. It ought to have a fresh, juicy 
appearance that tells it has hung long 
enough to become well ripened and 
fit for human food. 

Before beginning to consider cuts 
of meat, their price, their tenderness 
or toughness, try to imagine the ani- 
mal on its feet wandering about a 
grassy field in search of food. Like 
every other creature, it has a wonder- 
ful network of muscles. Some of 
these muscles work overtime, others 
get little usage. Therefore we find 
the tenderest portions where the body 
has had little exercise — the flesh on 
top of the back, that long strip we 
call the tenderloin lying alongside of 
the spine, the porterhouse, the seven 
prime ribs, as a butcher calls the 



thick sirloin, all cuts which are best 
adapted for broiling or roasting. 
Near the neck are the chuck ribs and 
shoulder, besides the tail and rump; 
then we come down to the round and 
the leg, portions of all creatures that 
abound in muscle. Where sinews are 
abundant and the flesh has a coarse- 
grained appearance, different meth- 
ods of cooking must be resorted to ; if 
it were broiled or roasted, it would 
be almost impossible to chew. It 
should be subjected to slow cooking, 
such as braising, pot roasting, or sim- 
mering just below the boiling point or 
to the moderate heat of a casserole. 
The nearer one approaches the hoof 
of the animal, the better is the meat 
adapted for soup making. The ten- 
dons of the shin are rich in gelatin, 
and when dissolved by long, slow 
cooking, give flavor and consistency 
to a soup. 

Beginning at the hoof of a creature, 
there is a piece which makes excel- 
lent soup. As we go farther up the 
loin, the meat begins to be of better 
flavor and the bone contains finer 
marrow. Then comes the round ; from 
the top of it can be cut a really good 
steak. With a slight amoimt of pound- 
ing and marinating, it can be made, 
almost as tender as a more expensive 
cut. By marinating is meant laying 
it in a mixture of oil and vinegar in 
the coldest corner of the refrigerator. 
Next comes the rump, from which 
stews and roasts are cut. Then the 
sirloin, which contains the best 
steaks and roasts. From this portion 
is cut the tenderloin, a fine strip of 
tender meat that lies inside the bone. 
This bit of the creature does not re- 
ceive the slightest exercise. It is a 



100 



MEATS 



101 



delicate morsel, which sells from 
fifty to eighty cents a pound, accord- 
ing to the demand for it. I have 
bought it in country places as cheap 
as twenty-five cents a pound, while 
in New York it often brings ninety 
cents. Although deliciously tender, 
it does not possess the flavor and 
nourishment of a cheaper piece of 
steak. 

Now we come to the forequarter, 
which begins at the five prime ribs 
for roasting. Close to them ' lie the 
five chuck ribs, excellent cuts for 
stews and small steaks. The neck is 
generally converted into Hamburg 
steak, while the under part of the 
animal, which includes the flank, 
plate, navel, and brisket, are corned. 
Here also is the shoulder clod; no 
cut can excel it in juiciness and flav- 
or when a pot roast or beef k la 
mode is desired. For the housewife 
anxious to have a small income pro- 
vide the best food possible, there are 
any number of pieces that make a 
savory dish, only they must be cooked 
in the way which best fits them. A 
cut from the top of the rotmd mar- 
inated, as I suggested, and broiled 
gives an excellent steak. A cheaper 
piece of round, from farther down the 
leg, may be put through the chopper; 
when broiled, it is good as Hamburg 
steak; baked, it makes a savory 
cannelon. A cut from the rimip may 
be braised and is as appetizing hot as 
cold. A pound or two of rump is the 
base for a nourishing stew, while a, 
braised or boiled tongue affords one 
hot meal and several lunch dishes. 
An ox tail is delicious fricasseed or 
in soup. Pot roasting converts a num- 
ber of cheap cuts into excellent dishes. 
Among these are the juicy, lean cross 
ribs, or a solid piece from the lower 
part of the round or face of the 
rump. Two poimds of flank, which 
costs ten or twelve cents a pound, is 
very good when cooked & la Milan- 
aise. Roll the meat, saut^ it brown, 
season well, and braise slowly for two 
hours with enough water to make a 
good gravy. 

A sheep's liver is as highly es- 



teemed in England as calf's liver is 
here. In American markets it is al- 
most given away. If liver looks 
cloudy, or a heart and kidney have a 
streaky, spotted appearance, you may 
be sure they are diseased and will 
make dangerous food. When cut 
from a well-nourished, healthy ani- 
mal, they are smooth, red, and juicy. 
A calf's heart is a most appetizing 
dish larded, stuffed with a well-sea- 
soned dressing, roasted, and served 
with rich, brown gravy. 

There is a knack in picking out a 
soup bone as well as in knowing how 
to cook it. It ought to be two thirds 
meat, one third bone and fat. If one 
has a large family, the best method 
to follow in winter when making 
soup, is to purchase two pieces of 
shin, one heavy with meat, the other 
bone and gristle. It must be cooked 
very slowly. When tender, take the 
meat, separating it from the bone 
and gristle, which may be left 
to cook untU all the good is out of it. 
The meat makes a good hash or stew 
and is not to be despised for cro- 
quettes. Fifty cents' worth of shin 
(when there is no waste) yields sev- 
eral nourishing meals in the shape of 
stew, hash, galantine, and soup. 

It will pay a housewife who caters 
to a large family to purchase a set 
of butcher's tools. They cost several 
dollars, but within a year she can 
save the price of them by getting 
pieces of meat, during the winter at 
least, big enough to make a number 
of meals. Of course cold-storage 
room is a necessity. For instance in 
the course of two weeks, a quarter of 
mutton can be utilized in a good-sized 
household. The first part to be used 
is the flank, because its keeping quali- 
ties are not so good as other parts of 
the quarter. Cut off the small end 
of the ribs, leaving the loin chops and 
the rib quite short. The loin can 
then be hung in a cold pantry. The 
flank will make several quarts of fine 
mutton stock as well as a stew. In 
this way, one may have at a moder- 
ate cost the chops for which a butcher 
charges fancy prices, besides a num- 



102 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



ber of other cuts, which, although not 
quite as choice, make excellent dishes 
when cooked properly. Beef, pork, and 
veal in large cuts may be purchased 
during the winter and cut by the 
housewife to suit her needs. An ac- 
commodating butcher will generally 
be willing to give his customer a les- 
son on how to divide meat, and with 
sharp tools any woman can accom- 
plish it. 

Koast Beef. 

Use, if possible, a covered roaster 
for cooking any sort of meat. The re- 
sult is much more savory roast and 
less shrinkage. Wipe the meat, set it 
in a dripping pan, skin side down, 
rub with salt and pepper, then dredge 
with flour. Have the oven as hot as 
possible when it is put in, so the out- 
side will sear quickly and prevent the 
escape of the meat juice. As soon as 
the flour in the pan is brown, reduce 
the heat and baste with the fat, 
which has flowed from the roast. 
When the meat is half done, turn it 
on the other side and dredge with 
flour. Should there be the slightest 
appearance of flour in the pan turn- 
ing black, add a little water and baste 
every fifteen minutes until done, al- 
lowing one hour for each five pounds 
if the meat is desired rare. An hour 
and twenty minutes is needed if you 
wish it well done. 



able for one portion. Put them in 
the saut6 pan and sear on all sides, 
then in the casserole. Add a table- 
spoonful flour to the saut6 pan, let it 
brown, add IJ cupfuls water, and stir 
until thickened, season with salt, pep- 
per, and a tablespoonful chopped 
parsley. Add a little Worcestershire 
Sauce and mushroom catsup. The 
sauce will be richer if stock is used 
instead of water. Pour the sauce 
over the meat, cover the casserolt, 
set in the oven, and cook slowly until 
the meat is tender, then cover the top 
with parboiled, sliced potatoes, and 
return to the oven to finish cooking 
the potatoes. Serve in the casserole. 

To Broil a Steak. 

Have the coals glowing hot, with- 
out flame or smoke. Grease a broiler 
with beef fat, place the steak in it, 
and hold it over the fire while count- 
ing ten slowly. Turn the broiler and 
hold the other side down for the same 
length of time. Turn the meat once 
in ten seconds for about one minute, 
or until it is well seared; then hold it 
farther fro a the fire, turning occa- 
sionally until the surface is brown. 
Just before taking it from the fire, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, turn- 
ing each side once more to the heat 
to cook the seasoning. When the 
steak is cooked, lay it on the platter, 
and spread both sides with butter. 



Koast-Beef Gravy. 



Pour out the largest part of the 
fat, set the pan on top of the stove, 
add J cupful flour, and stir it 
through the dripping until well 
browned. Pepper and salt to taste. 
Add gradually from 1 to 2 cupfuls 
boiling water, and beat the gravy (^ 
smooth with a wire spoon; if it is not ^KS' 
rich enough in coloring, brown with 
J teaspoonful kitchen bouquet. 



Braised Beef. 






3 pounds beef, 

2 ounces fat salt pork, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 
3 teaspoonfuls salt, 

i teaspoonful pepper, 

11 pints water, 

2 tablespoonfuls minced onion, 

2 tablespoonfuls minced carrot, 

2 whole cloves, 

1 sprig parsley. 



Casserole of Beefsteak. 

Saut6 3 sliced onions in a table- 
spoonful butter; put them into the 
casserole. Cut a steak, from the up- 
per side of the round, into pieces suit- 



Cut the pork into thin slices and 
fry until brown and crisp. Take out 
the pork, putting the vegetables in 
the fat remaining in the pan, arid 
cook slowly fifteen minutes. Rub 



MEATS 



lOE 



half the pepper and 2 teaspoonfuls 
salt into the piece of meat, and place 
it in a deep graniteware pan. When 
the vegetables are cooked, put them 
with the meat, first pressing from 
them as much fat as possible. Into 
the fat remaining in the pan put the 
flour, and stir until it becomes 
brown. Add the water gradually, 
stirring all the while. Season this 
gravy with the remainder of the salt 
and pepper, and boil for- five min- 
utes; then pour over the meat in the 
pan. Add the cloves and parsley. 
Cover the pan and set in a very 
moderate oven. Cook for five hours, 
basting every half hour with the 
gravy in the pan. The oven must 
never be so hot that the gravy will 
bubble. — Mabia Paeloa. 



Corned Beef and Cabbage. 

Wash and, if very salt, soak ia 
cold water for an hour a piece of 
corned beef weighing 5 or 6 pounds. 
Put in a kettle with cold water t» 
cover, place on stove, heat slowly, 
taking off scum as it rises to the top 
of the water. Cook slowly for three 
or four hours, or till very tender. 
Take out the meat, and in the liquor 
cook a cabbage which has been pre- 
pared according to directions given 
in chapter on vegetables; also some 
potatoes that have been washed and 
pared. If beets are to be used, cook 
them in boiling water in a kettle by 
themselves. When cabbage and po- 
tatoes are tender, take out with skim- 
mer and serve with the meat. Save 
the fat that rises to the top. 



Beef Stew with Buiuplings. 

2 pounds upper part of round 
steak with the bone, 

3 pints boiling water, 
1 turnip, 

1 carrot, 

1 onion, 

J tablespoonful salt, 

J tablespoonful pepper, 

i bay leaf, 

J cupful flour for thickening. 

Cut meat in one-and-a-half inch 
pieces, wipe with a damp cloth, and 
sprinkle with a little salt and flour. 
Put some of the fat in a hot frying 
pan, and when tried out, add meat, 
turning often, till well browned. 
Then put in a kettle with the bones, 
add boiling water, rinsing out frying 
pan with some of it, that none of the 
goodness of the meat be wasted. Let 
meat boil for five minutes; then set 
back on the stove where water will 
just bubbb, and cook slowly for two 
hours. Then add onion, carrot, and 
turnip which have been cut in half- 
inch cubes, and cook for another 
hour. Twelve minutes before the 
stew is done, put dumplings on a per- 
forated tin pie plate, or in a steamer, 
cover closely, and do not lift the 
cover until stew is cooked. 



Pillet of Beef. 

Trim into shape, lard the upper 
side, dredge with salt, pepper, and 
flour. Put several pieces of pork in 
the pan under the meat, bake in a 
hot oven twenty or thirty minutes. 
Serve with mushroom sauce. Or 
brush the fillet with beaten egg, 
sprinkle seasoned and buttered 
crumbs all over it, and bake thirty 
minutes. Or stuff the incisions left 
by the removal of the veins and ten- 
dons with any stuffing or forcemeat. 
Dredge with salt and flour, and bake. 
— Mart J. Lincoln. 

Hamburg Steak. 

Two pounds round beef chopped 
fine; press it into a flat steak, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and a 
little onion juice; flour lightly, and 
broil as beefsteak. Make a brown 
gravy with a little soup stock, thick- 
en with flour, and pour around the 
steak. 

Steak a la Bordelaise (French rec- 
ipe). 

1 sirloin steak, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 cupfuls beef stock, 



104 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



3 tablespoonfiils chopped raw 

ham, 
i bay leaf, 

1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 
Salt and pepper to taste, 
1 tablespoonful tomato catsup, 
i cupful finely chopped mush- 
rooms. 

Brown the butter and flour, stir in 
the stock; when thick and smooth, 
add the ham, bay leaf, and onion. 
Cover and simmer gently for an hour, 
then strain. Add salt, pepper, cat- 
sup, and mushrooms, and kefep hot at 
the side of the fire. Broil a sirloin 
steak, arrange on a hot platter, and 
pour this sauce around it. 

Beefsteak and Onions. 

Broil the steak over the fire, being 
careful to turn it often; after it is 
cooked, place on a hot platter and set 
in the oven with dabs of butter on it. 
Put a little finely chopped suet in a 
frying pan and fry light brown; into 
tiiat place 3 onions sliced fine. ' Cover 
the pan and cook until tender, remove 
the cover and continue cooking until 
the onions are light brown. In serv- 
ing, pour the onions and gravy over 
the steak. 

Beefsteak fie. 

3 pounds lean steak, 

Sweet thyme and parsley chopped 

fine, 
Peppers, 

5 onions, 

1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 

Sauce, 

6 hard-boiled eggs, 
gait. 

Cut the steak in strips four inches 
thick; put it to stew in sufficient 
boiling water so it does not cover the 
meat. After cooking slowly half an 
hour, add the thyme, parsley, pepper, 
and onions, cut in thin slices. When 
seasoning is added, continue stewing 
until the meat is tender. Add corn- 
starch to make the gravy as thick as 
cream, also season with salt and 
sauce. Have ready the hard-boiled 



eggs, and place them in alternate 
layers vrith the meat in a pie dish; 
pour the gravy over all, cover with 
pastry, and bake. 

Beef Omelet. 

i pound raw beef, 

3 crackers, 

i teaspoonful Calimiet baking 

powder, 
2 weU-beaten eggs, 
J teaspoonful herbs. 

Chop the beef fine; roll in the 
cracker dust, with which has been 
mixed the baking powder. Add the 
eggs and mix with salt, pepper, and 
powdered herbs; put a lump of but- 
ter in a baking dish, let it melt, then 
put it in the mixture. Bake half an 
hour. Turn out on a hot platter, 
fold over as you would an omelet, 
and pour a meat sauce around it. 

Steak a la Victor Hngo (French 
recipe). 

1 porterhouse steak, 

4 teaspoonful finely chopped 
shallot, 

1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, 

J cupful butter. 

Yolks 2 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 

1 teaspoonful meat extract, 

i teaspoonful horse-radish. 

Wipe a porterhouse steak, broil, 
and serve with Victor Hugo sauce 
made as follows: Cook shallot in 
vinegar five minutes. Wash J cupful 
butter and divide in thirds. Add 1 
piece butter to mixture with yolks of 
eggs, lemon juice, and meat extract. 
Cook over hot water, stirring con- 
stantly; as soon as the butter is melt- 
ed, add second piece, then a third 
piece. When the mixture thickens, 
add horse-radish. The time for broil- 
ing the steak depends, of course, on 
how you like it; if it is wished rare, 
five minutes over a hot fire or under 
the flame of a gas stove will cook it 
sufficiently. When yon wish the 
steak well done, give it from six to 
eight minutes,— ;Stella A. Downing. 



MEATS 



lOS 



Steak Savory (Hungarian recipe). 
1 pound round steak, 

1 teaspoonful butter, 
J teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful pepper, 

i cupful chopped beef fat, 

2 onions. 

Cut the steak into four parts. 
Place a frying pan over the fire with 
enough suet to grease the pan. When 
very hot, put in the meat and fry over 
a quick fire untU light brown on both 
sides. Remove to a hot dish. Mix 
butter, salt, and pepper. Spread this 
over both sides of the steak and set 
in a warm place. Put chopped beef 
fat in the pan and fry to straw color; 
remove the bits of fat, leaving the liq- 
uid fat in the pan. Add to this the 
onions cut in slices, season with salt, 
cover, and cook five minutes, stirring 
them occasionally. Lay them over 
the steak, and serve. 

London Heat Fie (English recipe). 

1 pound steak, 
i pound kidney, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

6 tablespoonfuls butter, > 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder. 
Pinch salt, 

1 cupful milk. 

Cut the steak and kidney in thin 
slices, and sprinkle over it flour, pep- 
per, and salt. Put in a pie dish with 
a little hot water. Put the flour in a 
basin with the baking powder and 
salt, rub in the butter, and add milk. 
Turn on a floured board, and roll a 
quarter of an inch in thickness. Wet 
the edges of the pie dish, and line it 
with strips of pastry, then cover, 
brush over with egg, make a hole in 
the center, and bake for an hour and 
a half in a moderately hot oven. 

Steak Pudding (English recipe). 

2 cupfuls flour, 

3 ounces suet, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 

powder, 
1 cupful milk. 



Salt and pepper, 
1 pound steak, 
i cupful hot water. 
Seasoning. 

Cut the meat in slices, and dip 
each piece in seasoning. Cover with 
hot water, and let stand while mak- 
ing the pastry. Mix the flour with 
the suet finely chopped, the bak- 
ing powder and salt, and make into 
a stiff paste with milk. Drop on a 
floured board, and roll. Line a 
greased pudding basin with the pas- 
try, reserving a piece for the top. 
Put in the meat and water, wet the 
edges, and cover with the remain- 
der of the pastry. Tie over the top 
a floured pudding cloth. Put into a 
saucepan of boiling water to boil two 
hours. 

Beef Bouilli (French recipe). 
Short ribs beef, 
1 turnip, 
1 carrot, 
1 onion, 

3 stalks celery, 
1 clove garlicj 
Pepper and salt, 

1 tablespoonful vinegar, 

1 teaspoonful mushroom catsup. 

Put the beef on to stew with tur- 
nip, carrot, onion, celery, garlic, salt 
and pepper. Cover with boiling wa- 
ter, and simmer till the meat is ten- 
der as possible. For sauce, add vine- 
gar, mushroom catsup, salt, and 
pepper. Simmer a few minutes. 
Serve the sauce about the meat. 

Beef a la Uode. 

4 pounds beef, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

3 pints boiling water, 
1 bay leaf, 

1 sprig celery, 

1 sprig parsley, 

1 onion, 

3 carrots, 

1 turnip, 

1 tablespoonful salt^ 

Dash pepper. 



106 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Put the butter in a stewpan over a 
hot fire; when it melts, brown the 
meat on both sides. Remove the meat 
temporarily and add flour to butter; 
let it brown and thicken, then add 
water, bay leaf, celery, parsley, and 
onion with clove stuck in it, carrots, 
turnip, salt, and pepper. Replace 
the meat in this liquid and simmer 




li, Mold for Lady's Fingers; b, Mold for Steamed 
Puddings, Brown Bread, or Parf ait; c,Layer- 
Cake Tin; d, Doughnut Cutter. 

six hours. Turn the meat over and 
stir occasionally. Place the meat on 
a platter, strain the gravy over it, 
and garnish with sliced boiled car- 
rots and parsley. 



Beef Goulash (Hungarian recipe). 

3 pounds round steak cut in inch 

cubes, 
3 onions sliced, 
3 potatoes diced, 
J cupful butter, 
i cupful water, 
1 cupful cream, 
1 teaspoonful beef extract, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
J teaspoonful black pepper, 
J teaspoonful paprika. 

Put the butter in a kettle, set it on 
the range, and fry the onions, add 
the meat, cook until brown. Dissolve 
the beef extract in water, and add it 
to the contents of the kettle. Cover 
closely, and cook slowly until the 
meat is tender, then add the season- 
ings, and place the potatoes in the 
kettle on top of the meat. Cover 
and cook until the potatoes are ten- 
der, add the cream, and simmer five 
minutes, 



Flank a la Uilanaise (French rec- 
ipe). 

2 pounds flank, 
1 tablespoonful salt, 
i teaspoonful pepper, 
J cupful chopped onion, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

2 ounces suet, 

1 cupful water, 

2 slices carrot, 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Season flank with salt and pepper. 
Place a saucepan with onion and but- 
ter over the fire, add a small piece of 
bruised garlic, cook five minutes. 
When cold, spread this over the meat, 
roll, tie at each end and in the cen- 
ter with a string. Set a saucepan with 
suet over the fire, fry until the suet 
is fried out; then put in the meat; 
cook and turn till the meat becomes 
a light brown, add water, carrot, and 
onion; cover and cook till done, which 
will take about two hours, adding 
more water if necessary, but only i 
cupful at a time. Shortly before 
serving, lay the meat on a hot dish, 
take off the strings, skim the fat from 
the gravy, mix cornstarch with cold 
water, add it to the gravy, stir, and 
cook two minutes; add sufficient boil- 
ing water to make a creamy sauce, 
cook five minutes, strain, and serve. 

Beef Bagout (French recipe). 

2 pounds lean beef, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful pepper, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

2 onions. 

Cut the beef into one-and-a-half- 
inch pieces, season with salt and pep- 
per. Place a saucepan with butter 
and onions over the fire, cook a few 
minutes, add the meat and seasoning, 
cover, and cook over a slow fire two 
and a half hours, adding a little boil- 
ing water if the gravy gets too brown. 
When the meat is tender, dust with 1 
tablespoonful flour, add cupful boil- 
ing water, and cook slowly ten min- 
utes, 



MEATS 



107 



Hot Collops (Scotch recipe). 

Mince IJ pounds round steak fine 
and 'season highly. An onion can be 
added if liked, chopped very fine. 
Melt a tablespoonf ul butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the mince, and stir fre- 
quently to keep from getting into 
lumps. Dredge flour over it, and 
pour on a little stock. Let sim- 
mer a few minutes, serve very hot on 
slices of toast. 

Boiled Tongue. 

Bend the tip of the tongue around 
and tie it to the root. Put it in cold 
water and place over the fire. When 
it boils, pour off the water, and put 
it on again in cold water. Boil until 
tender. Remove the skin, roots, and 
fat, and serve cold. Tongues may 
also be braised and served cold. — 
Mart J. Lincoln. 

Sweetbreads and Ifacaroni Sauce. 
2 beef sweetbreads, 
13 sticks macaroni, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

1 cupful cream. 
Salt and pepper. 

Parboil the sweetbreads; cut into 
small pieces. Boil the macaroni; 
when tender, cut it in tiny pieces, mak- 
ing little rings. Into a saucepan put 
butter and flour; stir, add the cream; 
when smooth, add the macaroni and 
sweetbreads. Season with salt and 
pepper. Boil up and serve. 

Tripe a la Creole (Southern recipe). 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
12 peppercorns, 

2 cloves, 

1 blade mace, 

1 onion chopped fine, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 

IJ cupfuls strained tomato, 
i pound boiled tripe. 

Put into a saucepan the butter, 
peppercorns, cloves, mace, and onion 
chopped fine. Cook slowly until the 
butter is light brown; add the flour, 
and brown again. Strain, and re- 



turn to the fire. Season to taste; add 
the boiled tripe, cut into inch strips; 
cover, and simmer gently for twenty 
minutes. 

Curried Tripe (Southern recipe). 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 finely chopped onion, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 
1 cupful stewed tomato, 
IJ pounds boiled tripe, 
Curry powder, pepper, and salt, 
1 cupful beef stock. 

Melt the butter in a spider; add the 
onion; cook until colored; add the 
flour and brown it; stir in the beef 
stock and tomatoes. Add the boiled 
tripe, cut into strips, season with salt, 
pepper, and a little curry powder. 
Simmer gently for ten minutes, and 
serve. 

Tripe Xyonnaise (French recipe). 
3 pounds tripe, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Slice onion. 
Salt find pepper. 

Cut the tripe in thin strips. Put 
the butter in a frying pan; when 
hot, add the onion, and fry light 
brown. Turn in the tripe, add a lit- 
tle salt and pepper. Cook gently 
until tender. Thicken the gravy with 
flour. 

Tripe a I'Espagnole (French recipe). 

3 tablespoonfuls oil, 

i cupful finely chopped onion, 

i finely chopped green pepper, 

1 bruised clove garlic, 

i cupful finely chopped mush- 
rooms, 

IJ pounds tripe, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful pepper, 

3 finely cut tomatoes, 

1 teaspoonful flour, 

1 cupful boiling water, 

1 teaspoonful beef extract, 

1 teaspoonful finely chopped 
parsley. 

Place the oil in a saucepan over the 
fire, add the onion, pepper, and gar- 



108 



MRS. CURTIS*S COOKBOOK 



lie; cook five minutes without brown- 
ing. Wash and cut the tripe into 
inch-sized pieces, season with salt and 
pepper; mix the tripe with the sea- 
soning; add it to vegetables in the 
saucepan, cover, and cook ten min- 
utes; add the tomatoes, seasoning and 
mushrooms, cook five minutes; dust 
with flour, add boiling water and beef 
extract, cook a few minutes longer. 
Serve, sprinkled with parsley. 

Stewed Tripe and Tomato Sauce. 
1 pound tripe, 

1 onion cut in slices, 

2 cupfuls tomatoes, 

S tablespoonfuls flour, 
i cupful cold water. 
Salt and pepper. 

Wash the tripe, cover with hot wa- 
ter; add the onion, cover the sauce- 
pan, and cook slowly half an hour. 
In another saucepan put the toma- 
toes, cook ten minutes; strain through 
a sieve and return to the pan. Wet 
the flour with the water; add it to 
the strained tomatoes, stirring aU the 
time. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Place the tripe on a hot platter and 
pour the sauce over. 

Tripe with. Oysters. 

Simmer J pound tripe for three 
quarters of an hour in slightly salt- 
ed water; take out the tripe; add to 
the water in which the tripe was 
cooked a little butter, flour, salt, and 
pepper. Return the tripe and a doz- 
en oysters, simmer until the oysters 
are cooked, and serve. 

Tripe and Onions (English recipe). 
1 pound tripe, 

3 onions, 

1 cupful milk, 

i tablespoonful flour. 

Pepper and salt. 

Parboil the tripe, and cut into 
small pieces. Parboil the onions, and 
cut in rings. Put them both in a 
saucepan with boiling water and a 
little salt. Simmer gently from an 
hour and a half to two hours. Mix 



the flour and milk smoothly; when 
the tripe is tender, pour it in. Let it 
come to the boil, and serve very hot. 

Beef Heart Saute. 

Soak a beef heart in cold water an 
hour, changing the water several 
times to draw out all the blood. 
Cover with boiling water, add 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, and simmer gently two 
hours. Set aside until cold. Cut into 
half-inch slices and take out the tough 
muscle in the center. Dip each slice 
in slightly beaten egg, with which 
has been mixed salt and pepper, J 
teaspoonful onion juice, and 3 tea- 
spoonfuls warm water; roll in dry 
bread crumbs, and stand ten min- 
utes. Fry golden brown in deep fat. 
In a frying pan melt 1 tablespoonful 
butter; when brown, add 1 table- 
spoonful flour, and brown again. Add 
gradually | cupful water in which 
the heart was cooked, J cupful vine- 
gar from piccalilli, and 1 tablespoon- 
ful pickle chopped fine; salt and 
pepper to taste. Simmer two or 
three minutes. 

Stewed Beef's Heart (English rec- 
ipe). 

1 beef heart, 

1 cupful bread crumbs, 

3 slices salt pork minced. 

Salt and pepper, 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 

i teaspoonful sweet marjoram, 

i teaspoonful chopped onion, 

3 teaspoonfuls melted butter, 

1 tablespoonful browned flour, 

J lemon. 

Wash the heart thoroughly and 
soak two hours in cold water slightly 
salted. Stuff with forcemeat made of 
bread crumbs, salt pork, salt, pepper, 
parsley, sweet marjoram, and onion. 
Moisten with melted butter. FiU the 
heart with this, sew up the opening, 
and tie firmly in a piece of cloth. 
Put in a saucepan, nearly cover with 
boiling water, and stew gently for 
three hours. The water should by 
this time be reduced to a pint. Take 
out the heart, remove cloth and, dish. 



MEATS 



lOG 



Set aside a cup of gravy and thicken 
what is left in the saucepan with but- 
ter rubbed smooth in browned flour. 
Salt and pepper to taste. After tak- 
ing from the fire, add the lemon 
juice, and pour over the meat. Carve 
in slices across the top. 

Beef Kidney & la Baden-Baden (Ger- 
man recipe). 

1 beef kidney, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful pepper, 

2 tablespoonfuls finely cut mush- 
rooms. 

Yolks 2 eggs, 

1 cupful sweet cream. 

Split the kidney in half; remove 
the white fat and all stringy parts; 
cut the kidney in four-inch squares. 
Place a saucepan over the fire, add 
the butter, and as soon as hot, put in 
the kidney; season with salt and 
pepper, stir, and cook five minutes; 
add the mushrooms, cook six minutes. 
Mix the yolks of the eggs with the 
cream; add to the kidneys; stir and 
beat till nearly boiling; add a little 
cayenne pepper, and serve. 

Hungarian Kidney. 
1 beef kidney, 
1§ tablespoonfuls butter, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
J teaspoonful white pepper, 
4 tablespoonfuls beef stock, 
1 tablespoonful chopped mush- 
rooms. 
Yolks 2 eggs, 
§ cupful mUk. 

Wash the kidney, and with a sharp 
knife cut oS the outer part of each 
lobe, rejecting the purplish portion 
and tubes. In a saucepan put the but- 
ter, salt, and pepper. When hot, 
add the kidney; shake, and cook for 
five minutes; add the beef stock and 
mushrooms; simmer for ten minutes; 
mix the eggs and milk, add to the 
contents of the saucepan, stir until 
the sauce begins to thicken; then take 
from the fire, and serve in » hot dish. 



Broiled Kidneys (Scotch recipe). 

Cut the kidneys in slices, soak an 
hour in salted water, wipe them dry, 
dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs, 
and broil over a hot fire. 

Frizzled Dried Beef. 

Cover dried beef with hot water to 
take out the salt; throw this water 
away, and put the beef into a sauce- 
pan with a few tablespoonfuls boil- 
ing water; let it simmer; add a little 
butter, put the beef on slices of toast 
and pour a thin tomato sauce over 
them. 

Fricassee of Oxtails. 

Wash and clean 3 small oxtaUs, cut 
them in pieces two inches long, put 
them into stock, and simmer until 
tender. Do this the day before they 
are to be used. Dip them in beaten 
eggs and crumbs, season with salt and 
pepper, and fry light brown. For 
the sauce, thicken the stock the ox- 
tails were cooked in with flour, pour 
over the meat, and serve. 

Savory Oxtail (Mexican recipe). 

2 oxtails, 
8 onions. 

Clove bruised garlic, 
1 tablespoonful salt, 
1 teaspoonful pepper, 
1 carrot, 

3 turnips, 

3 sweet potatoes, 

4 potatoes, 

1 cupful Lima beans, 

5 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Cut oxtails into pieces, scald in 
boiling water and cool in cold water; 
place a saucepan with butter over the 
fire, add onions and garlic; cook 
three minutes; drain the meat and 
season with salt and pepper; stir, and 
cook six minutes ; then cover with boil- 
ing water and cook two hours. Add 
carrot, turnips, sweet potatoes, on- 
ions, and potatoes; cover, and cook 
till nearly done; then add the Lima 
beans described below: Soak 1 cupful 
Lima beans in cold water over night, 
place them over the fire with cold 
water, add a little salt, an^ feoil till 



110 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



tender; melt 1 tablespoonful butter 
in a small saucepan, stir, and cook 
two minutes; add 1 pint broth, cook 
a few minutes; then add to the stew; 
cook a. few minutes, and serve. In 
place of butter, the Spanish people 
use oil. 

Creamed Prankforts (German recipe), 
li tablespoonfuls butter, 
1§ tablespoonfuls flour. 



1 cupful milk. 

Pepper and salt, 

4 Frankfort sausages. 

Hake a cream sauce of butter, 
flour, and milk. Season with salt 
and pepper. Skin Frankfort sau- 
sages, cut into pieces an inch long, 
and bring to a boiling point in the 
sauce. — S1EIJ.A A. Downiitg. 



CHAPTER XIV 



LEFT-OVERS OF BEEF 



A BOAST of meat goes on the table 
in some households day after day in 
the same style, with the carver doing 
his best at each meal to leave it as 
sightly as possible. Its last appear- 
ance is calculated to take away the 
appetite of an entire family. The 
careful housewife, whose aim is 
economy and a healthful, attractive 
table, on the second day studies the 
cold roast with a keen eye. It comes 
from the refrigerator on a clean 
plate, and with it a bowl of brown 
gravy to which has been added every 
drop of the meat juices left in the 
platter on which the roast was served. 
Probably for luncheon she plans cold 
meat, cut in neat slices from the 
choicest bits of the roast, rare slices 
and well done, to appeal to various 
tastes. The meat is not cut until al- 
most ready to put on the table. It is 
nicely arranged on a small platter 
with a garnish of parsley, cress, or 
cubes of aspic. She does not reheat 
the gravy to serve on cold plates. 
Worcestershire, tomato, or some 
cold homemade sauce makes a more 
fitting accompaniment. Then she 
carves the roast and plans for future 
meals. The tough outside pieces are 
laid away to be chopped, the fat to 
be rendered down for drippings, the 
tender bits of meat to be deviled, 
used for pie, ragout, or warmed up in 
the gravy, while the bones and gristle 
go to the soup kettle. Not a morsel 
of the meat is wasted in such a 
kitchen, and the daintily served, ap- 
petizing meals that follow the roast 
at intervals do not hint to the unin- 
itiated of richaufis. 

To make warmed-up meats appetiz- 
ing, there are various commodities 



which ought always to occupy a place 
in the pantry. Have a small jar of 
onion butter, a bottle of caramel, a 
glass can filled with browned flour, a 
jar of finely rolled bread crumbs, 
Worcestershire Sauce, celery salt, 
mace, bay leaves, a bottle of Mcll- 
henny's Tabasco Sauce, cayenne, cur- 
ry, catsup, canned mushrooms, pap- 
rika, kitchen bouquet, and horse- 
radish. The secret of appetizing 
food is good flavoring, and a frequent 
varying of flavor has more to do with 
a tempting table than a large butcher 
bill. 

Meat Minced with Poached Eggrs. 

3 cupfuls cold meat, 

1 cupful gravy or stock. 

Pepper, 

Salt, 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

Chop a pint of meat coarsely, sea- 
son well, heat in a cupful of left-over 
gravy or stock. Do not allow it to 
boil, merely to come to a simmer. 
Serve on diamonds of toast with a 
poached egg on top of each slice. 

Bubble and ScLueak. 

4 cupfuls cold corned beef or 
• beef left from a pot roast, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 cupfuls cold boiled cabbage, 

Salt and pepper. 

Cut the cold meat into small strips 
and saut^ them in a tablespoonful 
butter. Chop the cabbage and 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls butter in an omelet pan. 
Pepper and salt it, then stir over the 
fire till it begins to brown. Arrange 
on a hot platter as a border and into 



111 



112 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



the middle put the hot meat. Serve 
with boiled potatoes. 

Grilled Slices vitli Creole Sauce. 

Cut from roast beef 6 slices of 
rarest meat, broil for five minutes 
over a clear fire, put on a hot plate, 
and serve with a sauce made as fol- 
lows: In a saucepan put 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter, 3 tablespoonfuls 
chopped onion, and I tablespoonful 
chopped green pepper. Fry light 
brown, stirring constantly. Add 3 
tablespoonfuls flour and stir to a 
paste; then put in a pint brown stock, 
2 teaspoonfuls Worcestershire Sauce, 
a teaspoonful dry mustard, and 2 
teaspoonfuls vinegar. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. Cook over a slow fire, 
beating the sauce smooth. Add 
a teaspoonful chopped parsley and J 
can mushrooms cut in halves. Let 
the sauce come to a boil, then pour 
over the grilled meat. 

Deviled Beef. 

Take slices of rare roast beef and 
spread with butter on each side, as if 
you were buttering bread. Over this 
scrape a mustard made by mixing a 
tablespoonful vinegar with 3 table- 
spoonfuls mustard and a dash salt 
and pepper. Lay on a smoking-hot 
iron spider and fry till the slices be- 
gin to curl over. 

Hock Terrapin. 

6 hard-boiled eggs, 
2 cupfuls brown stock, 
4 cupfuls cold beef, 
2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
I cupful cider. 

Put the butter and flour in a sauce- 
pan, and when blended, pour in the 
soup, and beat till smooth. Let it 
come to the boil, then add the meat 
cut in inch pieces, and draw to a 
cooler place on the stove where it can 
simmer half an hour. If you cannot 
watch it, pour it in a double boiler, 
for the success of this dish depends 
on the steeping of the meat at just 
below boiling point. Season with 



salt, pepper, and the cider when the 
dish is ready to take from the fire. 
Boil 6 eggs hard and lay in cold wa- 
ter to make the shells come off easily. 
Pour the mock terrapin on a large 
platter, garnish with eggs sliced, split 
gherkins, and poinds of lemon. 

Boast-Beef Fillan. 

Cook for five minutes 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter and a small onion chopped 
fine. Before it begins to brown, add 
2 cupfuls cold beef cut in fine dice, 
seasoned with J teaspoonful salt and 
J teaspoonful pepper. Sinamer slow- 
ly for ten minutes. While it is cook- 
ing, cover i cupful rice with cold wa- 
ter and set it over the fire to boil. 
When it has cooked for five min- 
utes drain and let cold water run 
through it till every grain sepa- 
rates. Add the rice to the beef, 
pour over it IJ cupfuls canned toma- 
toes. Pour in a cupful boiling wa- 
ter, and cook slowly till the rice is 
perfectly soft. 

Beef Fricassee. 

3 cupfuls cold beef cut in thin 
slices, 

2 cupfuls brown stock, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
i teaspoonful pepper, 

1 teaspoonful onion butter, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Season the meat with salt and pep- 
per. Melt the butter in a spider, add 
the flour, and stir to a brown paste. 
Pour in the stock and beat smooth 
with a wire whisk. Season with pep- 
per, salt, and onion butter, and cook 
ten minutes. Add the cold meat, 
simmer a few minutes, and serve on 
a deep platter with a, border of rice, 
mashed potatoes, or points of toast. 

Beef Kagout with Tomato. 

3 cupfuls cold roast beef, 
li cupfuls tomato pulp, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 teaspoonful onion juice, 

Salt and pepper. 



LEFT-OVERS OF BEEF 



113 



Cut the beef into half-inch cubes, 
cook the tomatoes half an hour, and 
push through a potato ricer. Reheat 
the tomatoes, adding butter and sea- 
sonings, at the last the beef. Let it 
simply heat, not boil, then serve. 

Creamed Corned Beef au Gratin. 
S tablespoonfuls flour, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 cupful milk, 
1 sliced onion, 
1 stalk chopped celery, 
pepper, 

3 cupfuls cold corned beef, 
i eupful buttered cracker 
crumbs. 

Put the celery, cut in inch lengths, 
and the onion in the milk; scald in a 
double boiler. Strain when boiling 
and convert the milk into a white 
sauce with the butter and flour. When 
thick, add the corned beef, cut into 
small neat cubes, and a dash of pep- 
per. Pour into a shallow dish, cover 
with buttered cracker crumbs, and 
brown. Garnish with blanched leaves 
of celery. 

Beef Hask. 

Use for beef hash the tough part 
of the roast thoroughly freed from 
fat and gristle. Chop and mix 1 
cupful meat with 2 cupfuls chopped 
potatoes. In an iron spider put 3 
tablespoonfuls butter and i cupful 
stock, or a spoon of gravy added to 
enough hot water to half fill a cup. 
BoU up, then add the meat and pota- 
toes seasoned with pepper and salt. 
Stir occasionally with a fork. Let 
the water evaporate from the hash, 
leaving it dry but not pasty. 

fatherland Farm Meat Loaf. 

Butter a long, narrow cake tin and 
line with cold mashed potatoes, 
smoothing with a spatula into a layer 
an inch thick. Inside this put a fill- 
ing of roast beef, chopped coarsely, 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and a few 
drops of onion juice, and moistened 
with gravy. Smooth this filling till 
within one inch of the top of the tin, 



and cover with mashed potatoes. 
Bake in a hot oven for half an hour 
and turn out on a long platter. It 
will look like a finely crusted loaf, 
and may be cut in neat slices. This 
makes a delicious luncheon or tea 
dish. — Mks. S. B. Foebes. 

Papas Rellenas (Cuban recipe). 
3 large potatoes, 
1 cupful cold roast beef, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls cooked tomato, 

2 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

3 olives. 

Pepper, salt, cayenne. 

Boil the potatoes, and cut in halves 
lengthwise. Scoop out the inside 
with a spoon, leaving the potato shell 
half an inch thick. Make a " picca- 
dillo" to stuff them with. Chop the 
beef, put it in a spider with the but- 
ter and tomato. Cook till the mix- 
ture begins to look dry, add 1 well- 
beaten egg, a dust cayenne, salt, and 
pepper and 3 olives chopped. Stuff 
the potato halves with this mixture. 
Beat 1 egg light, add 1 teaspoonful 
flour, and in this batter dip the half 
potatoes. Fry in boiling lard as you 
would croquettes. 

The Bemains of a Boiled Dinner. 

Winter squash can be served in a 
pie, sifting and seasoning it as if 
boiled for the purpose. Cold cabbage 
may be put into hot spiced vinegar, 
served cold with vinegar, or heated 
with a little butter and pepper, salt, 
if needed, and just a suspicion of 
vinegar. Cut it fine, and heat thor- 
oughly. Beets make good pickles. 
Turnips, carrots, and parsnips can be 
warmed up. A favorite dish with 
many people is " red-flannel hash," 
plain hash containing a little chopped 
beet. Look over the meat, cutting 
out all the gristle and soft fat. Chop 
it fine with some of the hard fat. 
Mince potatoes which have been 
boiled in pot liquor. Use three times 
as much potatoes as meat. Chop 
with the potatoes a small quantity of 



114 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



the cabbage and some of the beets. 
For 2 quarts potatoes use 4 pint cab- 
bage and 1 large beet. Mix thor- 
oughly with the meat. Pour some 
milk into a frying pan and turn in 
the hash, using enough to moisten 
thoroughly. Add 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter and season with pepper and 
salt if necessary. Be sure it is heated 
through. Serve with brown bread and 
pickles. — H. Annette Poole. 

Tongue Sandwiches. 

1 cupful finely chopped tongue, 
1 teaspoonful made mustard, 
1 tablespoonful soft butter, 
J teaspoonful paprika, 
Yolk 1 hard-boiled egg. 
Juice J lemon. 
Dash nutmeg. 



Chop the tongue fine, and mix thor- 
oughly with the other ingredients. 
Spread between thin slices of bread. 

Beef Bissoles. 

Roll pie crust as thin as possible 
and cut into rounds with a large bis- 
cuit cutter. Mince cold beef or steak, 
season with salt and paprika, and 
moisten with stock or gravy to make 
the meat stick together. Put a spoon- 
ful of this mixture into each round of 
paste, pinching the edges together 
carefully so that not a particle of the 
meat may escape. Brush egg over 
the outside, and fry like doughnuts 
in deep lard. They wiU take eight 
minutes to brown. Drain on thick 
paper, and serve hot in a folded 
napkin. 



CHAPTER XV 



LAMB AND MUTTON 



Mutton Stew (Irish recipe). 
IJ pounds neck mutton, 
2 quarts potatoes, 
4 onions, 

2 cupfuls boiling water. 
Pepper and salt. 

Cut the mutton in pieces, and put 
in saucepan with the onions cut in 
rings, also the hot water and salt. 
Let it boil, then simmer gently for 
two hours. Parboil the potatoes, cut 
them in halves, put in the saucepan 
with the meat, about half an hour be- 
fore it is done. In serving, put the 
potatoes round the dish, with the 
meat and onions in the center, and 
pour the gravy over. 

Roast Lamb. 

Wipe the meat with a damp towel, 
place in a baking pan, dredge with 
pepper, salt, and flour.- Add a cup- 
ful boiling water and a teaspoonful 
salt to the pan. Baste every ten min- 
utes, and bake fifteen minutes to the 
pound in a hot oven. When done set 
the meat on a platter, and serve with 
mint sauce and green peas. 

Boiled leg of Lamb. 

Choose a hind leg, put into a ket- 
tle, and cover with boiling water. Set 
over the fire, let come to a boil, pour 
in a pint cold water and simmer gen- 
tly until done. Take the meat up on 
a hot dish, and serve with caper 
sauce. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb. 

Bone a shoulder of lamb, leave the 
knuckle, and fill the cavity with rich 
bread stuffing; tie neatly in shape 
and wrap in a buttered paper. Lay 
in a deep pan with 4 tablespoonfuls 



butter, a sliced carrot and turnip, an 
onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch 
sweet herbs. Pour on sufficient stock 
to cover the bottom of the pan. Set 
over a slow fire and simmer gently; 
baste every ten minutes. When near- 
ly done, lift from the pan, remove 
the paper ; brush the meat with melted 
glaze and set in the oven to brown. 
Take up the shoulder on a heated 
dish. Strain the gravy, and pour 
around it. Garnish with purie of 
green peas, and serve with maitre 
d'hotel sauce. — Eliza Parker. 

Pressed Lamb. 

Put a shoulder of lamb on to boil, 
with water to cover; when tender, 
season with salt and pepper. Boil 
until tender, when the juice will be 
nearly boiled out. Chop the meat, 
and season. Put it in a bowl with a 
plate on top and press out all the 
juice; set in a cool place to harden. 
Slice thin when serving. Soup can 
be made of the broth. 

Broiled Breast of Lamb. 

Trim a breast of lamb and put it 
in a saucepan, cover with stock, add 
a bunch sweet herbs, a slice onion, a 
piece mace, and 2 or 3 cloves; sim- 
mer gently until tender. Take up, 
dredge with salt and pepper, brush 
over with beaten egg and grated 
cracker, and broil over a clear fire 
until brown on both sides. Take up 
on a heated dish, pour over a little 
melted butter and garnish with as- 
paragus tips. 

Imitation Barbecue of Mutton. 

Remove the skin from a leg of mut- 
ton, sprinkle with salt, and dredge 
with flour. Place in the pan and 



115 



116 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



roast. Allow the meat twenty min- 
utes to the pound. One hour before 
serving, prepare the following mix- 
ture: 

J cupful Worcestershire Sauce, 

J cupful tomato catsup, 

J cupful vinegar, 

J teaspoonful pepper, 

2 teaspoonfuls mustard. 

Stick the meat all over with a 
sharp-pointed knife, pull the cuts 
open and fill with this hot mixture. 
Baste with the liquor which gathers 
in the pan, and pour it ovet the meat 
before sending it to the table. 

Army Stew. 

1 tablespoonfui chopped parsley, 

2 pounds forequarter lamb, 
1 teaspoonful pepper, 

1 tablespoonfui salt, 
4 onions, 

3 turnips, 

2 carrots, 

4 potatoes, 

i cupful milk, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

1 egg, 

2 cupfuls flour. 

Cut lamb in pieces, place in a 
saucepan, cover with boiling water, 
cook two minutes, remove, drain and 
plunge into cold water, drain and re- 
turn the meat to the saucepan. Cover 
again with boiling water, add salt, 
pepper, and onions, boil an hour and 
a half, add turnips, peeled and cut 
into quarters, carrots and potatoes, 
cut into quarters; boil till done. Ten 
minutes before serving, mix flour with 
baking powder, egg and milk, cut 
with teaspoonful small portions from 
the mixture and drop them in the 
stew; cover, and cook five minutes; 
then remove the saucepan to side of 
stove, where it stops boiling, other- 
wise the dumplings wiU become heavy; 
add parsley, and serve. 

Haricot Hutton (English recipe), 
IJ pounds neck mutton, 
1 onion, 
1 carrot. 



1 turnip, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
3 tablespoonfuls flour. 
Pepper and salt to tast^ 

3 cupfuls hot water. 

Divide the meat into small joints, 
and cut the vegetables in small square 
pieces. Put the butter in a saucepan, 
add the meat, and fry brown with the 
onions. Pour off the fat, add the 
vegetables, flour, water, and a. little 
salt. Let it boil; then simmer gently 
from one and a half to two hours. In 
serving, put the meat on a hot dish, 
pile the vegetables on top, and pour 
the gravy round about. 

Breaded Chops. 

4 loin chops, 
1 egg, 

1 cupful bread crumbs, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Dash pepper, 

1 tablespoonfui chopped parsley. 
Cut chops three quarters of an inch 

thick. Dip each in beaten egg and 
lay on a meat board. Mix bread 
crumbs with salt and pepper, minced 
parsley, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Roll the chops in the bread crumbs 
and fry in boiling fat imtil light 
brown. Garnish with slices of lemon 
and sprigs of parsley. 

Curry of Lamb (Southern recipe). 
Breast lamb, 

2 onions, 
1 carrot. 
Bunch parsley, 
1 bay leaf, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls curry powder, 
3 dozen sweet potatoes, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 

3 tablespoonfuls grated cocoa- 
nut, 

3 dashes Mcllhe.nny's Tabasco 
Sauce. 

Cut lamb in inch squares, trim, and 
put on fire with enough water to cov- 
er; add onion, carrot, parsley, and 
bay leaf; cook half an hour. Prepare 



tAMB AND MUTTON 



117 



butter in saucepan with curry pow- 
der, simmer five minutes, add flour, 
moisten witii stock of Iamb strained; 
add pieces of Iamb, also sweet pota- 
toes, cocoanut, salt, and tabasco. 
Cook fifteen minutes, and serve with 
garnishing of boiled rice. Chicken, 
veal, or mutton may be prepared in 
the same way. 

Lamb Chops a la Boulangere (French 
recipe). 
10 or 12 cutlets, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
i cupful cream. 

Salt, pepper, and cayenne, 

1 tablespoonful chopped chervil, 

1 lemon. 

Trim the cutlets, season with salt, 
pepper, and a little cayenne, dip in 
olive oil, then in flour. Broil over a 
slow fire. While they are cooking, 
put cream in a stewpan, and when 
boiling add butter, chervil, the juice 
of i lemon, and a little pepper and 
salt; stir quickly till it forms a 
smooth sauce; pour it over the cut- 
lets when done, and serve quickly. 
Fillets of veal or rabbit are good 
cooked in this way. 

Hutton Chops a. la Cleveland. 

8 mutton chops, 

3 tablespoonfuls sweet oil, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 onion, 

1 pint mushrooms, 

i pint strained tomatoes. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce, 
Salt, 
Chopped parsley. 

Fry the chops in the oil and butter. 
Put them on a hot platter while you 
make the sauce. Chop the onion and 
mushrooms fine; put them in a sauce- 
pan with a little butter and fry until 
brown. Add the tomatoes, and boil 
five minutes; add the tabasco, salt, 
pepper, and parsley. Lay the chops 
in a circle; pour the sauce in the cen- 
ter, and garnish with points of toast. 



Broiled Iamb Chops. 

Have the chops cut thick, dust 
with s&lt and pepper; broil over a 
quick fire; pile neatly on a hot plat- 
ter, and put a small bit of butter on 
each one. 

Stuffed Mutton Chops. 
10 mutton chops, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful chopped onion, 
J cupful chopped mushrooms, 
I teaspoonful salt. 
Pinch pepper, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls stock. 

Trim the chops, which have been 
cut very thick. With a sharp knife 
split each chop in two, without sepa- 




a, Brown-Bread or Pudding Mold ; 6, Waffle 
Iron ; c. Fatly Pans. 

rating the meat from the bone. Put 
the butter in a pan, add the onion, 
and cook five minutes; add to tliis 
the chopped mushrooms, salt, and 
pepper, and cook five minutes longer. 
Add the flour and stock. Cook for a 
few minutes; stuff each chop with 
this mixture after it has cooled; press 
them tightly together, and broil. 

Mutton Cutlets with Mushrooms. 

Take the bones from mutton chops, 
and use the round, lean portions. 
Brush with melted butter and broil. 
Serve them on rounds of toasted 
bread, with mushroom sauce poured 
over. Sauce. — Peel 1 pint mush- 
rooms, cut in pieces, season, and 
cook in cream sauce for ten minutes. 



118 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



lamb Fricassee (German recipe). 

2 breasts lamb, 

3 ounces butter, 

5 tablespoonfuls chopped onion, 
2 teaspoonfuls salt, 

J tablespoonful butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Dip the lamb breasts into boiling 
water, then instantly into cold water; 
cut the meat into two-inch pieces. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan, add 
the onions, and cook five minutes 
without browning; season the meat 
with the salt; add it to the saucepan; 
cook ten minutes, cover with boiling 
water, put on the lid, and cook until 
done. Shortly before serving, melt 
i tablespoonful butter, add the flour, 
stir, and cook a few minutes; add it 
to the fricassee, and boil a few min- 
utes longer. — Gesixe Lemcke. 

Deviled Kidneys (German recipe). 

6 lamb kidneys, 

1 ounce butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped onions, 
i bruised clove garlic, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 cupful stock. 

Yolks 3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 

Cayenne pepper. 

Split the kidneys, remove the white 
part in center and chop fine. Place 
the butter in a saucepan, add the 
onions, and cook three minutes; add 
the kidneys and salt; stir, and cook 
three minutes; then add the stock, 
and cook three minutes longer. Re- 
move from the fire, add the eggs, 
parsley, and a little pepper. Fill this 
mixture into 6 ramequins, sprinkle 
over each J tablespoonful fresh grated 
bread crumbs and a little melted but- 
ter. Place the ramequins in a tin 



pan, set it in a hot oven, and bake 
brown. — Gesine Lemcke. 

Kidneys a la Maitre d'hotel (French 

recipe). 

Split and cut in two, lengthwise, 
lamb's kidneys. Run a skewer 
through to keep them flat. Dip in 
melted butter and fine bread crumbs; 
season with salt and pepper. Broil 
five minutes. Serve vrith mattre 
d'hdtel butter. 

Iamb-Heart Stew (French recipe). 
3 lambs' hearts, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
J peeled lemon, 
i bay leaf. 
Salt, 
Pepper. 

Wash the hearts and slice, cutting 
across the grain of the meat. Dry 
slightly and dust with flour. Put the 
butter in a stewpan and when hot add 
the meat; stir and cook about ten 
minutes. Add enough water to near- 
ly cover the meat, the lemon cut in 
slices, and bay leaf. Cover the ket- 
tle, and cook gently half an hour, 
stirring often and adding more wa- 
ter, if needed; add salt and pepper; 
remove the bay leaf and lemon, 
thicken, and serve. 

Xamb's Xiver Curried. 
1 lamb's liver, 
1 onion. 

Few slices pork, 
i teaspoonful curry powder. 

Cut the lamb's liver in slices, soak 
in salted water for five minutes, take 
from the water, and dry in a cloth. 
Slice the onion and fry with pork. 
Take out the pork and fry the liver. 
Brown well, add the curry powder 
to the sauce, stir smooth, and serve. 



CHAPTER XVI 



LAMB LEFT-OVERS 



Lamb can be used in nearly every 
recipe given for beef. It is especially 
good for croquettes and makes a sav- 
ory stew. Save every drop of gravy 
or liquid from the platter when set- 
ting a roast of lamb away. It re- 
quires aU the enriching it can have 
and always plenty of seasoning. 

Potatoes with Lamb Staffing. 
8 large baked potatoes, 

1 cupful cold chopped lamb, 

4 tablespoonfuls chopped ham, 
i cupful thin white sauce, 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 
White 1 egg, 

Salt and pepper. 

Bake 8 large, perfect potatoes. 
While they are cooking, chop the 
lamb and ham, mix lightly together, 
add the seasonings, and moisten with 
white sauce. When the potatoes are 
soft, cut a thin slice from the end of 
each and scoop out the inside. Put it 
at once through a potato ricer and 
set away to keep warm. Fill the po- 
tato skins almost to the top with the 
meat mixture. Add to a cup of the 
mashed potato the cream and beaten 
white of the egg. Pepper and salt, 
and on the top of each potato put a 
spoonful, leaving it in a small, rocky 
mound. Bake till the top is a deli- 
cate brown. Serve the potatoes piled 
on their ends in a shallow dish, with 
a plentiful garnish of parsley. 

Hound of Iamb with Peas. 

2 cupfuls cold chopped lamb, 
1 small onion, 

1 cupful cold potatoes. 
Pepper and salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls stock, 

I cupful buttered crumbs, 
1 cupful green peas. 



Mix lightly with a fork the chopped 
meat, potato, onion, and seasonings. 
Heap it in a mound in the middle of 
a shallow baking dish. Cover with 
buttered crumbs and bake till brown. 
When ready to serve, pour around it 
a cup of green peas drained and sea- 
soned. 

Lamb-and-Eice Croquettes. 

3 cupfids chopped lamb, 
1 cupful cold rice, 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

Pepper and salt, 

1 cupful white sauce. 

Mix the lamb and rice with the sea- 
sonings and stir into a hot, thick, 
white sauce. Cool. Roll into cone- 
shaped croquettes. Flour, egg, and 
crumb. Fry in deep fat. Garnish 
with parsley. 

Lamb in Savory Stew. 

IJ cupfuls cold lamb, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 

i onion, 

1 cupful gravy or brown stock, 

2 cucumber pickles. 
Pepper, salt, cayenne. 

Into a granite saucepan put the 
butter, onion, and flour, and rub to a 
paste. When it grows light brown, 
add the gravy or stock, salt and pep- 
per, and allow to simmer for two 
minutes. Cut the pickles in small 
pieces, add to the sauce and the lamb 
cut in neat slices. Let it heat through, 
then serve in a deep platter sur- 
rounded by a ring of hot boiled rice 
or mashed potatoes. 



119 



CHAPTER XVII 

VEAL 



Koast Breast of Veal. 

1 cupful stale bread, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls minced onion, 
i teaspoonful ssdt, 

J teaspoonful thyme, 

1 egg, 

Small breast veal (about 3 

pounds), 
J tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Soak stale bread in cold water; 
when soft, put it in a towel, press out 
the water, place butter with minced 
onion over the fire, stir and cook five 
minutes without browning, then add 
the bread, stir five minutes longer, 
season with salt, pepper, thyme, and 
1 egg, and mix. Have the butcher 
prepare the veal for filling, wash and 
wipe the meat dry, season inside and 
out with 1 tablespoonful salt and J 
teaspoonful pepper, then stuff the 
breast, sew it up, lay the meat in 
a roasting pan, with slices of pork 
under it, spread over with butter, 
and lay a few slices of pork on 
top. Place the pan in hot oven, 
roast until the meat becomes light 
brown, basting frequently with its 
own gravy, add 1 cupful boiling wa- 
ter, roast about two hours longei, 
basting frequently until done; add 
more water should the gravy brown 
too much. Ten minutes before serv- 
ing, lay the meat on a platter, re- 
move the fat from the gravy, mix 
cornstarch with J cupful cold water, 
add to it the sauce, stir,and cook three 
minutes, then strain, pour a little of 
the sauce over the meat, and serve the 
remainder in a gravy boat. 

Veal Boasted with Mushrooms. 

Bone a loin of veal. Remove the 
kidneys and fat, and lay them, after 



splitting in two, inside the loin. Sea- 
son inside with pepper and salt, and 
fold over the flap to inclose the kid- 
neys. Roll and tie securely with 
string, making the roast oblong shape. 
Cover the bottom of the roasting pan 
with thin slices of fat pork, a sliced 
onion, and chopped parsley. Lay the 
meat on top, and moisten with a lit- 
tle cream. Have the oven rather slow 
at first, basting the veal frequently 
with a little cream. When nearly 
done, sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, 
moisten with melted butter, and let it 
brown. Take out the veal, untie, 
sprinkle Parmesan cheese over it, set 
in a very hot oven, surround with 
broiled mushrooms, and pour over the 
strained liquid left in the roasting 
pan. 

Veal Savory (French recipe). 
IJ pounds ham, 
3 pounds raw veal, 
6 hard-boiled eggs, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

Cut the veal and ham into small 
pieces. Cut eggs in slices, lay part 
of them in the bottom of a weU-but- 
tered earthenware dish, sprinkle with 
minced parsley, then put in a layer 
of veal and ham, with salt and pep- 
per to season. Proceed with these 
alternate layers until all is used, then 
add just enough water to cover it, 
with butter rolled in flour and divided 
into tiny portions dotted over the top. 
Tie a buttered paper over the dish, 
and bake one hour in a hot oven. Re- 
move the paper, lay a plate over the 
meat with a weight to keep it in 
place, and let it remain another hour 
in a slow oven. When cold, turn out 
and garnish with small lettuce leaves 



120 



VEAL 



m 



filled with cold peas dressed with a 
little mayonnaise. 

Veal Loaf. 

4 pounds raw lean veal, 

i pound ham, 

J pojmd salt pork, 

X cupful stale bread Crumbs, 

i cupful melted butter, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful paprika, 

1 teaspoonful onion juice, 

i teaspoonful allspice, 

i teaspoonful nutmeg, 

J teaspoonful cloves, 

1 lemon, juice and rind, 

2 eggs. 

Chop very fine the veal, ham, and 
salt pork. Mix with meat the bread 
crumbs soaked in milk, butter, sea- 
sonings, and well-beaten eggs. Press 
into a buttered bread pan, cover the 
top with lardoons of salt pork; bake 
one hour. Cut when cold into thin 
slices. 

Curried Veal Cutlets. 

Trim cutlets into uniform shape 
and size; dip in the beaten yolks of 
eggs, and cover with grated bread 
crumbs that have been mixed with 3 
tablespoonfuls curry powder and a ta- 
blespoonful salt. Fry in butter till 
brown. Take out of the spider, and 
in it melt and brown a little butter 
and flour, add a cupful water, and 
pour over the cutlets. 

Veal Hearts (Spanish recipe). 
4 slices bacon, 
1 sliced onion, 
4 veal hearts, 
1 cupful stock, 
i minced pimento, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
J bay leaf. 

Pry bacon to a crisp, remove from 
the spider, and crisp the sliced onion 
in the hot fat. Trim and wash hearts, 
slice them, roll in flour, and fry in 
hot fat. Add to the fat in the pan 
the stock, pimento, salt, and bay leaf. 
Pour the mixture over the hearts, and 
cook two hours. Five minutes before 
serving, add the bacon. 



Brown Stew. 

3 pounds veal, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

1 pint water, 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Dash pepper. 

Slice onion, 

1 teaspoonful kitchen bouquet, 

1 bay leaf. 

Cut the veal into cubes and roll in 
flour. Put 3 tablespoonfuls butter 
into a pan; when hot, add the meat, 
and stir constantly until browned. 
Dust with the flour, mix, add the wa- 
ter; stir, add the salt and pepper, 
onion, kitchen bouquet, and bay leaf. 
Cover, and simmer gently for an 
hour. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Divide the cutlet into pieces about 
four inches square; dip in egg, then 
in crumbs; fry for five minutes. Add 
i cupful boiling water, and let sim- 
mer for an hour. Dish, and serve 
with bits of lemon. 

Kagout of Veal. 

Cut the meat in thin slices, put 2 
tablespoonfuls butter in a pan, dredge 
with flourj and fry light brown. Take 
out the meat and put into the pan a 
cupful cold stock or gravy, season 
with salt and pepper and a table- 
spoonful tomato catsup. Lay a few 
slices of cold ham in the gravy, also 
the veal. Serve very hot. 

Veal Oysters. 

Cut IJ pounds veal cutlets into 
pieces the size of large oysters; sea- 
son with 1 tablespoonful salt, dust 
with flour, dip into beaten egg, roll 
in bread crumbs, and fry light brown 
on both sides. Serve on a hot dish; 
garnish with lemon quarters. 

Veal Birds (English recipe). 

Cut thin slices of veal into pieces 
two and a half by four inches. Chop 
the trimmings of the meat fine with 
one small slice of fat salt pork and 
half as much cracker crumbs as there 



122 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



is meat. Season highly with salt, 
cayenne, and onion juice, moisten 
with beaten egg and a little hot wa- 
ter. Spread each slice of veal with 
this mixture and roll tightly; fasten 
with a toothpick. Dredge with flour, 
pepper, and salt, and fry slowly in 
hot butter. Add J cupful cream, and 
simmer twenty minutes. Remove the 
fastenings, put the birds on toast, 
pour the cream over them, garnish 
with points of lemon, and serve. 

Wiener Schnitzel (German recipe). 
3 poimds veal steak, 
1 egg, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful lard, 
i teaspoonful capers, 
6 anchovies. 
Lemon. 

Cut the veal in slices half an inch 
thick and three inches square; pare 
the corners round; beat lightly to 
flatten; season with salt and dust 
with flour; dip each cutlet in egg, 
cover with fine crumbs, and pat 
smooth with a knife. Fifteen min- 
utes before serving, place a pan with 
the butter and lard over the fire; as 
soon as hot, put in the cutlets, fry 
light brown. Arrange on a warm 
dish; lay in the center of each schnit- 
zel J teaspoonful capers. Soak the 
anchovies in cold water; remove the 
skin and bones; divide in halves, roll 
them up; place 2 of these rolls on 
each schnitzel with J lemon cut in 
two. Garnish with water cress or par- 
sley, and serve. 

Smothered Veal. 

Place in the bottom of a baking 
pan 2 slices salt pork cut fine, a lay- 
er of sliced potatoes, a little chopped 
onion, a layer of finely chopped un- 
cooked veal, pepper, and salt. Con- 
tinue until the dish is full. Spread 
over the top bits of butter. Bake 
forty-five minutes. 

Veal Stew. 

3 pounds breast veal, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 



2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Bunch parsley, 

2 carrots, 

2 cupfuls cooked green peas. 

Cut up the veal and fry light 
brown in a pan with the butter; drain 
off most of the butter; sprinkle the 
flour over the meat; mix well and fry 
a little longer, add 1 pint water and 
let boil; take out the meat, put it in 
another pan, strain the sauce over it. 
Add the parsley chopped fine, car- 
rots cut fine, and peas. Boil up 
again, and serve. 

Veal CoJIops (Scotch recipe). 
IJ pounds veal, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 tablespoonful chopped onion, 

2 cupfuls stock, 

1 can green peas. 
Salt and pepper. 

Trim off skin and fat from the 
veal and put through a meat chopper. 
Melt the butter and brown the onion, 
then add the stock; season to taste 
and simmer five minutes. Fry the 
chopped raw meat in a spider. Stir 
until the butter is absorbed; strain 
over it the stock in the saucepan; 
cover, simmer for twenty minutes, 
stirring occasionally. Place the peas 
in a saucepan with butter, salt, and 
pepper, and heat. When the meat 
has absorbed the liquor, turn if into 
the center of a. hot platter; sprinkle 
with finely chopped parsley and sur- 
round with the peas. 

Calves' Tongue -with Tomato Sauce. 

2 calves' tongues, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 cupful water, 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 

1 bunch parsley, 

1 onion, 

3 cloves. 

Soak the tongues in warm water 
an hour; drain and parboil, cool, pare, 
and scrape off the white skin. Put 
the flour in a saucepan, stir into it 
gradually the water. When it boils, 
add the tongues with vinegar, parsley. 



VEAL 



12a 



onion, and cloves. Cover and cook 
slowly an hour. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 

Stewed Calf's liver. 
1 calf's liver, 
1 turnip, 
1 carrot, 
1 stalk celery, 
1 onion, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful browned flour. 

Wash and cut the liver in slices. 
In a. saucepan put the turnip, carrot, 
celery, and onion (all sliced) ; lay the 
liver on top of the vegetables; 
sprinkle salt and pepper over it, and 
pour on a pint boiling water; cover, 
and let stew until the liver is tender. 
When done, take out the liver and 
put on a hot platter; thicken the 
gravy with butter and flour; strain, 
and pour over the meat. 

Broiled liver. 

Cut calf s liver into half inch slices, 
cover with boiling water, let stand 
five or six minutes, drain, and wipe 
dry. Sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and broil in a. ,greased broiler five 
minutes. Put on a hot platter and 
spread with bits of butter. Serve 
very hot. 

Braised Calf's Liver. 
1 calf's liver, 
1 onion, 
3 ounces bacon, 
3 tablespoonfuls flour, 
1 sliced carrot, 
J bay leaf, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 cupful stock, 
i cupful strained tomatoes. 

In the liver make many small slits 
with a paring knife and insert slices 
of onion and bits of sliced bacon. 
Heat in a spider 3 tablespoonfuls ba- 
con drippings and add flour to the 
fat. Brown the flour in the fat, then 
add the liver, and roll it on all sides 
imtil it is seared in the fat and cov- 
ered with fat and flour. Place the 
liver in the heated casserole, add car- 



rot, bay leaf, salt, stock, and toma- 
toes. Bake two hours and a half. 

Calf's Xiver and Bacon. 

Saut6 calf's liver in bacon fat, and 
when don^ make a gravy from it 
with flour and hot water. Heat a 
pan, and drop in slices of bacon. If 
the pan is very hot, they will curl 
into rolls and brown in a few min- 
utes. Arrange the liver, and garnish 
with parsley. 

Veal Kidney Omelet. 
1 veal kidney, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
J teaspoonful salt. 
Dash pepper, 
4 eggs, 
1 tablespoonful warm water. 

Remove the fat and tubes from a 
kidney and chop fine. Place in a fry- 
ing pan with butter, salt, and pepper, 
and shake over a hot fire until the 
meat is golden brown. Beat the eggs 
without separating; add the warm 
water. Heat the butter in a spider, 
pour in the eggs, and shake over the 
fire tiU the mixture begins to set. 
Draw back — so the omelet may set 
without burning; turn the cooked 
kidney over the center, fold up, and 
serve on a hot platter. 

Veal Kidneys Deviled. 

Split in half 3 veal kidneys and 
take out the fibrous parts. Spread 
both sides with a mayonnaise, season 
highly, roll in bread crumbs, dip in 
melted butter, and broil over a hot 
fire. Serve at once. 

Tried Sweetbreads. 
1 pair sweetbreads, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 
1 cupful milk. 
Salt and pepper. 

Parboil the sweetbreads; when cold, 
dip them in beaten egg and cracker 
crumbs, sprinkle salt over them, and 
fry in hot fat. Stir together the but- 
ter and flour, then set the pan back a 



124 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



little and add gradually the milk; 
stir until smooth. Season with salt 
and pepper, finely chopped celery, and 
cook about two minutes. Strain the 
sauce over the sweetbreads. 

Sweetbread Croquettes. 
3 sweetbreads, 
1 can mushrooms, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
i cupful cream, 
3 yolks eggs. 

Parboil the sweetbreads and cut 
them in small pieces; also cut the 
mushrooms. Put into a saucepan the 
flour and butter, and when made 
smooth, add the cream ; heat, then add 
the sweetbreads and mushrooms. 



Sweetbreads a la NewbiiTg. 
1 cupful cream, 
li cupfuls sweetbreads. 
Yolks 3 eggs, 
i teaspoonful salt. 
Few grains cayenne. 

Heat the cream; add the sweet- 
breads parboiled and cut in cubes. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs; add the 
salt and cayenne, and stir into the 
cream. Stir until thickened slightly; 
serve at once. 

Sweetbread Prltters. 

Parboil sweetbreads, cut in small 
pieces, season with salt, pepper, and 
chopped parsley; dip in fritter bat- 
ter and fry in deep fat. 



CHAPTER XVIII 



VEAL LEFT-OVERS 



Veai. is the flesh of an immature 
creature, and will not keep fresh as 
long as that of an older animal. A 
left-over of beef may be kept a day 
or two before serving again; it is bet- 
ter to see to the condition of veal 
twenty-four hours after cooking, es- 
pecially in hot weather, and serve it 
as soon as convenient. Veal has lit- 
tle flavor, and requires considerable 
seasoning. Brown sauce is the gen- 
eral accompaniment to veal at the 
first cooking. Save every spoonful 
of sauce to use with it when warming 
over. If there is no brown gravy, 
white sauce may take its place. Veal 
makes an excellent ragout, seasoned 
with onion juice and cayenne, minced 
and poured on toast for breakfast; 
in a salad or croquettes, it tastes very 
much like chicken. Add to it a few 
mushrooms or 2 or 3 spoonfuls left- 
over sweetbreads, and you have de- 
licious rissoles. It is excellent com- 
bined with oysters in a scallop. When 
preparing it for a salad, be careful 
to reject all morsels of gristle as 
well as brown or hard meat. One- 
half measure each of cold veal and 
finely chopped white cabbage is de- 
licious with a horse-radish dressing. 
Marinate for two hours, else you will 
find the salad a tasteless one. 

Nut Balls. 

1 cupftil cold chopped veal, 

12 chopped blanched almonds, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

1 egg. 

Pepper, 

Paprika, 

1 cupful tomato sauce. 

Mix the meat, almonds, and season- 
ing, and moisten with the well-beaten 



egg. Roll into balls the size of a 
walnut and set in a baking pan. Pour 
over them the hot tomato sauce. 
Cook in a hot oven for twenty min- 
utes. Serve on a, platter garnished 
with water cress. 



Windermere CTOC[uettes (English 
recipe). 

IJ cupfuls milk, 

IJ tablespoonfuls but*er, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Dash cayenne, 

3 cupfvls cold chopped veal, 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 

i cupful cold rice. 

Yolks 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

Make a white sauce from the milk, 
flour, butter, and seasonings. To 1 
cupful sauce add the chopped meat 
and parsley. Spread on a plate to 
cool. Into the i cupful sauce beat the 
rice and the yolks of the eggs pushed 
through a potato ricer. Spread on a 
plate to cool. Take a tablespoonful 
meat mixture and flatten into a cake. 
Inside this put a teaspoonful rice mix- 
ture rolled in a tiny ball. Wrap the 
meat around it till covered. Roll in 
flour, egg, crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Pile cannon-ball fashion on a 
platter. Garnish with parsley. — Maey 
Kekdall. 

Calf's liver Terrapin with Knsh- 
rooms. 
3 cupfuls cold liver, 

1 cupful stock, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 eggs, 

J teaspoonful salt. 



125 



126 



MRS. CTJRTIS'S COOKBOOK 



J teaspoonful paprika, 

J teaspoonful kitchen bouquet, 

i teaspoonful mustard, 

2 drops Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce, 

1 cupful mushrooms, 

3 truffles. 

Boil the eggs hard. Rub the yolks 
smooth with the butter, salt, paprika, 
kitchen bouquet, mustard, and ta- 
basco. Add the liver cut in small 
pieces and the stock. Cook five min- 



utes, add the mushrooms and truffles, 
and serve garnished with whites of 
eggs cut in rings. 

Veal Omelet. 

If you have a cupful of cold roast 
veal left over, chop it fine, season 
with pepper, salt, and a dash of pap- 
rika; then tuck it between the folds 
of an omelet. Pour over it before 
sending to the table a cup of hot, 
well-seasoned tomato sauce. 



CHAPTER XIX 



PORK 



Koast Pork. 

Select a piece of loin from a young 
pig, 3 pounds in weiglit; score tlie 
rind across one eightii of an inch 
apart, season with J tablespoonful 
salt and J teaspoonful pepper; lay 
the pork in a roasting pan, place it 
in a medium hot oven, roast till light 
brown, basting with its own gravy; 
then add J cupful boiling water; con- 
tinue to roast and baste till nearly 
done, turn the meat over, so the rind 
lies in the gravy, roast ten minutes, 
turn it again, so the rind is on the 
top ; let it remain five minutes longer 
in the oven, transfer to a hot dish, 
free the gravy from fat, mix 1 tea- 
spoonful cornstarch with J gill cold 
water, add it to the gravy, stir two 
minutes, add sufScient boiling water 
to make creamy sauce, strain, and 
serve with the meat. 

Pork Tenderloins with Sweet Pota- 
toes. 

Wipe tenderloins, put in a dripping 
pan and brown quickly in a hot oven; 
then sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and bake forty-five minutes, basting 
every fifteen minutes. 

Pare six potatoes and parboil ten 
minutes, drain, put in pan with meat, 
and cook until soft, basting when 
basting meat. — Fastnie M. Fabmee. 

Pork Chops, Sauce Robert. 

Take 8 rib chops, trim them neat- 
ly; have ready some finely chopped 
onion and parsley; sprinkle each 
chop on both sides with this, also salt 
and pepper, and beat lightly with a 
broad knife, to make all adhere. Dip 
each one into slightly beaten egg, 
then roll into fine bread crumbs; let 
stand five minutes; dip into melted 



butter, and roll again in the crumbs. 
Arrange in a wire broiler and broil 
seven minutes over a clear fire. Chop 
fine 2 large onions, place in a stew- 
pan with 1 tablespoonful butter, and 
cook slowly until well colored; add 1 
tablespoonful flour, stir, and brown 
again, add slowly IJ oupfuls beef stock 
and 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. When 
smooth and thick, simmer until re- 
duced to 1 cupful, add 1 teaspoonful 
mixed mustard, salt, and pepper to 
taste. Pour this around the chops as 
they are dished. 

Bobble Gash (German recipe). 
1 pound lean pork, 
1 pound veal, 
1 tablespoonful lard, 
3 onions, 
5 potatoes, 
1 cupful cream, 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

Cut the pork and veal in small 
pieces. Put the lard in a kettle; 
when hot, add the onions sliced. As 
they commence to brown, drop in 
the meat and stir constantly until 
brown; then cover with water and 
boil three fourths of an hour. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Pare and 
cut in small dice the potatoes; 
when boiled, add them to the meat 
with the cream. Thicken with flour. 

Boston Pork and Beans. 

Pick over and wash a quart of 
dried beans the night before you bake 
them. Put them to soak in cold wa- 
ter. In the morning, pour off the wa- 
ter, put them in a kettle, then cover 
with plenty of cold water, and set 
to boil. Cook till perfectly tender; 
turn off the bean water; put them 



127 



128 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



into a pot; score in lines the rind of 
a piece of pork and bury it, all but 
the surface of the rind, in the middle 
of the beans. Add enough boUing wa- 
ter to the beans to cover. Stir in 3 
tablespoonfuls molasses and a tea- 
spoonful fresh mustard. Cover the 
pot and put in the oven. Bake mod- 
erately, but steadily, five hours. If 
the water wastes away so as to be be- 
low the surface of the beans, supply 
enough just to cover them. Toward 
the end of the time, it may be allowed 
to dry down enough to permit the 
pork to brown. Uncover the pot for 
a little while for this purpose. 

Boast Pig. 

A pig for roasting should not 
weigh over 6 or 7 pounds after being 
cleaned. When it has been prepared 
by the butcher, lay it in cold water 
for fifteen minutes, then wipe dry, 
inside and out. Make a stuffing as 
for a turkey, adding two beaten eggs. 
Stuff the pig to his original size and 
shape. Sew him up, bend his fore 
legs backward, his back legs for- 
ward under him, and skewer into 
shape. Dredge with flour and set, 
with a little salt water, into a 
covered roaster. At the end of twen- 
ty minutes remove the cover again, 
rub the pig with butter, and brown 
for ten minutes. Serve very hot with 
apple sauce. 

Homemade Sausage. 

Take of lean young pork IJ pounds 
tenderloin, the rest any lean cut, 
4 pounds, and fat, 3 pounds; put it 
through a sausage grinder — ^twice, 
perhaps three times, until of the de- 
sired fineness. Use for each pound 
of meat, 1 teaspoonful powdered, 
dried leaf sage, 1 teaspoonful salt, i 
teaspoonfid pepper, and J nutmeg; 
nutmeg may be omitted if preferred. 
A quantity of sausage may be made 
at a time and preserved for regular 
use if one has a cold storeroom in 
which to keep it. It should be packed 
in jars and covered an inch thick with 
melted lard, which will preserve it. 



Sauerkraut with Spareribs. 

Cover the kraut with cold water, 
add a little salt if necessary, and 
place to boil three hours before us- 
ing it. About an hour before it is 
done, put spareribs in and let them 
boa until the meat falls from the 
bones. Remove the spareribs, and 
stir in the kraut a grated raw po- 
tato from which the water has been 
drained. Let it come to a boil after 
this, being careful it does not burn; 
remove from stove, and serve. 

To Boil a Ham. 

Twenty-four hours before a ham is 
to be used, scrub it thoroughly with 
a vegetable brush and cold, weak 
borax water. Put in cold water and 
soak twenty-four hours. If it is to 
be baked, it requires four hours' boil- 
ing. Use a big kettle, as the ham 
must be covered all over with water. 
Let it come to the boil very slowly. 
Remove the scum. When it begins 
to boil, add 12 whole cloves, 1 bay 
leaf, 13 peppercorns, the outside 
stalks of 1 bunch celery, 3 chopped 
onions, 2 cloves garlic, 1 chopped car- 
rot and turnip, 2 blades mace, 13 all- 
spice berries, and 1 quart cider or a 
cupful vinegar. Never allow the 
ham to boU, merely simmer slowly; 
that is one secret of making it per- 
fectly tender. Allow twenty-five min- 
utes or half an hour to the poimd. If 
the ham is to be used cold, you can 
add to its tender juiciness by allow- 
ing it to stand in the pot liquor till 
nearly cold. Then lift it out, peel oflf 
the skin and roll in dried bread 
crumbs with which 3 tablespoonfuls 
brown sugar have been sifted. Set it 
in the oven till the crumbs form a 
crisp brown crust. If the ham is to 
be baked, take it from the water, 
drain thoroughly, then take off the 
skin except around the shank, where 
it may be cut in Vandykes with a 
sharp-pointed knife. Cover with 
crumbs and stick it full of cloves, set 
in a moderate oven, and bake two 
hours. If you prefer the ham glazed, 
allow it to cool as for boiled ham, 
then skin, wipe dry, and brush all 



PORK 



129 



over with beaten egg. Mix 1 cupful 
sifted craclcer crumbs, a dash salt and 
pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 
ter, and cream enough to make 
crumbs into a paste. Spread it even- 
ly over the ham, set in a moderate 
oven, and bake till brown; serve hot 
with brown sauce. When a baked or 
boiled ham goes to the table, wrap 
about the unsightly bone a ruffle of 
white tissue paper, and garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

Ham Steak. 

Put slices of raw ham in a frying 
pan with i cupful water to make 
them tender. When the water has 
boiled out and the ham is light brown 
on both sides, dust with ilour and 
pour on the following dressing, pre- 
viously made: A cupful milk and 
cream mixed, a little butter, a tea- 
spoonful mustard, and a dash Men- 
benny's Tabasco Sauce. As soon as 
it boils, serve. 

Broiled Ham and Eggs. 

Slice the ham thin, take off the 
rind, and soak the slices in hot water. 
Broil carefully and place on a. hot 
platter. Break as many eggs as you 
require into a pan of boiling water; 
when the white is done, dip out care- 
fully and lay the egg on ham. 
Sprinkle pepper and salt over each 
egg and serve. 

Sausage Bolls. 

Make a dough as for baking-pow- 
der biscuit; roll out and cut in large 
rounds with a biscuit cutter; lay 
sausage meat on half of each piece; 
turn the other half over and pinch to- 
gether; bake half an hour. Serve 
with brown sauce poured around it. 

Toad in the Hole (English recipe). 
1 cupful flour, 
1 egg, 

1 cupful milk. 
Salt and pepper, 
1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 

powder, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Sausages. 



Put the flour in a basin with the 
salt and make a well in the center. 
Break the egg and put it in with a 
quarter of the milk. Beat well, then 
add the remainder of the milk by de- 
grees, beating a^ the time. Melt the 
butter in a pudding tin. Parboil the 
sausages, cut them in halves, and put 
them in the tin. Add the baking 
powder to the batter, and pour it 
over the sausages. Bake in a hot 
oven half an hour. 




a. Bread Raiser ; b, Fluted Cake Tin with Tube 
in Center; c. Crown Mold for Jellies. 

Sausage and Apple. 

Prick the skins of the sausages, 
simmer in a frying pan fifteen min- 
utes, drain, and brown in the oven; 
make a sirup of 1 cupful each sugar 
and water, and in it cook pared ap- 
ples, cut lattice fashion, a few at a 
time, to preserve the shape. Serve the 
sausage on the apple. 

Broiled Pigs' Peet. 

Scrape the feet and wash them 
thoroughly, soak in cold water two 
hours, then wash and scrape again. 
Split each in half lengthwise, and 
tie the pieces separately in pieces 
of cheese cloth. Place in a deep 
saucepan, cover with boiling wa- 
ter, add 1 tablespoonful salt, and 
simmer slowly until the feet are 
tender, usually about four hours. 
Take them from the liquor and set 
aside until cold; remove the cloths; 
they are ready then to be broiled in 
the following: 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 

J teaspoonful salt, 



130 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce, 
J tablespoonful finely chopped 
parsley. 
Cream the butter. Work gradu- 
ally into it lemon juice, salt, tabasco, 
and parsley. After* removing the 
cloth from each piece, brush with 
melted butter and dust with salt and 
pepper. Broil over a clear fire for 
six minutes. Transfer to a hot plat- 
ter, and spread with prepared butter. 
The pigs' feet may be prepared the 
day before needed. 

Fried Salt Pork, Cream Gravy. 
i pound salt pork, 
1 cupful cream. 



1 teaspoonful flour. 
Pinch pepper. 

Wash the pork, trim off the rind, 
and with a sharp knife cut in thin 
slices. Spread in a large spider and 
place at the side of the fire until the 
fat is well fried out, then draw gradu- 
ally forward until the slices begin to 
color. Transfer them to a heated 
platter and keep hot. Pour off most 
of the fat, leaving about 2 table- 
spoonfuls in the pan; stir into this 
the cream, and when it comes to the 
boiling point, thicken slightly with 
flour blended with a little cold milk. 
Season with pepper; boil up once, and 
pour over the pork. 



CHAPTER XX 



PORK AND HAM LEFT-OVERS 



CoiJj pork, in the estimation of 
some persons, is better than when it 
is hot. Serve it in neatly cut slices 
for tea or luncheon at the second 
meal, then take stock of the remains 
and look to the future. Roast-pork 
bones make an excellent brown stock, 
almost as rich as that of roast beef. 
Trim the scraps from the bones and 
consign them to the soup kettle. Cut 
with a keen knife all the fat from the 
meat that is not to be served cold. 
This fat rendered down makes an ex- 
cellent dripping to saut^ potatoes. 
Chop, and allow it to melt, strain, and 
set away in the refrigerator. The 
tender white meat of pork makes a 
salad which tastes very much like 
chicken. Sometimes if one has a few 
bits of chicken left over, they may 
be combined with the pork, cut in 
neat cubes, and the fraud can scarce- 
ly be detected. Pork makes excellent 
croquettes or is good sliced and re- 
heated in a cup of its brown gravy. 
It may be minced, enriched by a few 
spoonfuls of gravy, and poured on 
toast for a breakfast dish. Cold ham 
has a multitude of uses. A few scraps 
may be converted into a delicious 
sandwich or gives an excellent flavor 
to a salad omelet or egg dish. Even 
cold sausage has its uses, while a 
slice or two of cold broiled bacon put 
through a meat chopper and added 
to croquette mixtures provides an 
agreeable seasoning. 

Ham Souffle. 

Take 2 cupfuls cold minced ham, 
add the white of 1 egg and beat till 
smooth. Then put in a dash of pap- 
rika, 1 cupful whipped cream, and 2 
whites of eggs beaten stiff. Pour into 



an oiled melon mold, bake, and serve 
with tomato sauce poured around it. 

Ham Griddlecakes. 

* 

1 cupful minced ham, 

2 cupfuls stale bread criunbs, 
2 eggs, 

Pepper, 

1 cupful scalded milk. 

Mix the ham and crumbs with the 
milk and well-beaten eggs. Drop by 
spoonfuls on a. hot buttered griddle. 

Ham Balls. 

Mince remains of lean ham, and 
mix with an equal quantity of mashed 
potatoes. Mold into small, flat cakes, 
roll in flour, and brown in a spider 
with slices of salt pork fried out. 

Ham Toast. 

2 cupfuls cold ham, 
2 eggs, 

i cupful cream, 

i teaspoonful mustard. 

Pepper. 

Chop very fine the cold ham, add 
the weU-beaten eggs, cream, a little 
pepper and mustard. Heat this 
mixture till almost at the boiling 
point, and spread on slices of but- 
tered toast. 

Shredded Ham. 

i tablespoonful butter, 

6 tablespoonfuls currant jelly. 

Dash cayenne, 

1 cupful cold ham. 

Cut the ham into narrow strips. 
Put the butter and currant jelly in a 
saucepan. As soon as they are melted, 



131 



132 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



add the cayenne and ham, and sim- 
mer five minutes. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

2 cupfuls finely chopped ham, 

1 cucumber pickle, 

2 teaspoonfuls made mustard, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
J teaspoonful pepper. 

Put the ham through a meat chop- 
per, using the finest knife. Mix per- 
fectly smooth with the butter and 
seasonings and spread between slices 
of bread from which the crusts have 
been cut 

Eam-and-Potato Fie. 

1 cupful cream sauce, 

2 cupfuls cold potatoes, 

IJ cupfuls cold chopped ham, 
i cupful dried bread crumbs. 

Chop the ham coarsely and cut the 
potatoes Into dice. Butter a vege- 
table dish, put in a layer of cold po- 
tato, then a layer of ham, and pour 
over it i cupful cream sauce. Cover 
with another layer of potato and 
ham. Pour in the remainder of the 
sauce, and cover with buttered 
crumbs. Bake twenty minutes. 



Block Island CrocLuettes. 
1 cupful minced ham, 

1 cupful stale bread crumbs, 

2 cupfuls chopped cold .pota- 
toes, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 egg. 

Mix the ham, crumbs, and potatoes 
with the butter and egg, make intor 
small balls, flour, egg, crumb, and fry 
in hot fat. 

Fork Cutlets. 

2 cupfuls chopped cold pork, 
2 eggs, 

i cupful cracker crumbs, 
1 teaspoonful minced parsley, 
1 teaspoonful minced onion, 
1 tablespoonful cream. 
Pepper and salt 

Beat the eggs thoroughly, mix with 
the cream, stir in the chopped pork, 
cracker crumbs, onion, parsley, and 
seasoning. Form into cutlet-shaped 
croquettes, roll in flour, egg, and 
crumbs. At the small end of the cro- 
quette stick in a few inches of maca- 
roni. Fry in deep fat, and serve with 
tomato sauce. 



CHAPTER XXI 



POULTRY 



Ik selecting a chicken, feel of the 
breastbone; it ought to be smooth and 
soft as cartilage and bend easily. A 
young cliicken has soft feet, a 
smooth skin, and abundance of pin- 
feathers. Long hairs, coarse scales 
on the feet, and an ossified breast- 
bone are pretty sure signs that it is 
an old fowl. By the same marks you 
may choose a tender, young turkey, 
also ducks. To dress and clean poul- 
try, hold the bird over a flame, either 
alcohol, gas, or burning paper, and 
blaze off all the hair and down. Cut 
off the head and pick out the pin- 
feathers with a fine-pointed knife. 
With an old fowl or turkey it is 
worth while to pull the tendons. This 
operation makes the dark meat so 
much more tender. Find the portion 
just behind the leg joint where there 
are a bunch of tendons, with a fine- 
pointed scissors, cut very carefully the 
cartilage skin that covers them, and 
strip it down till you leave exposed 
the bunch of white sinews. If the 
bird is fairly tender, they can be 
pulled by inserting a stout steel 
skewer, lifting each tendon by itself 
and twisting it until it snaps. A tur- 
key will frequently require something 
as strong as a screw-driver. To admit 
the hand, make an incision through 
the skin just below the breastbone and 
remove the gizzard, heart, etc.; be 
very careful not to break the gall 
bladder, as even a drop of its con- 
tents would give a bitter flavor to 
everything it touches. Pull out the 
lungs-i— they lie inside the ribs — also 
the kidneys, crop, and windpipe. 
Draw the neck skin down and cut 
the neck off close to the body, leav- 
ing skin enough to cover the open- 
ing. Cut out the oil bag in the 



tail, then wash the fowl by allow- 
ing cold water to run through it. If 
the chicken is to be cut up, sever 
the skin between the leg and body, 
bend the leg back, and cut through 
the flesh. Separate the second joint 
from the drumstick, take off the 
limbs and cut the breast away from 
the back, starting just below the 
breastbone and letting the knife pass 
between the small ribs on either side 
through to the collar bone. When 
trussing a fowl for roasting or boil- 
ing, draw the legs close to the body 
and iilsert a skewer xmder the middle 
joint, running it straight through un- 
til it comes out opposite. Cross the 
drumsticks, tie them with a long 
string together and fasten to the 
tail. Put the wings close to the body 
and keep them in place by a second 
skewer. Draw the skin of the neck 
under the back and pin down with a 
toothpick. Now turn the bird on its 
breast, take the string attached to 
the tail and tie to the lower skewer, 
cross iti draw through the upper 
skewer, and cut off the ends. 

Braised Chicken. 

Truss a plump chicken, fry in the 
fat of salt pork, place on a trivet in a 
deep pan; into the fat put a carrot 
cut in squares, J onion, i bay leaf, 
and a sprig parsley. Add 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls butter and allow the 
vegetables to fry delicately brown. 
Pour this over the chicken. Add 2 
cupfuls hot chicken broth, cover, and 
set in a moderate oven. Baste fre- 
quently, adding water to the stock, 
if necessary. Lift the chicken to a 
hot platter, skim off the fat, thicken 
the gravy and season, then strain 
over the fowl. 



133 



134 



MRS. ' CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Broiled Chicken. 

Sprinkle a chicken, which has been 
cut up, with salt and pepper, dip 
into melted butter, then place in a 
broiler. Cook twenty minutes over a 
bright fire, turning the broiler so the 
pieces may be equally brown. Put 
on a platter spread with soft butter, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and 
set in the oven for a few minutes be- 
fore serving. 

Grilled Chicken. 

Choose small chickens, split down 
the back, and soak each in olive oil, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, for an 
hour or two. Coat with flour, and 
broil over a clear fire till done. Into 
a, saucepan put 1 cupful water and 
an onion; let cook fifteen minutes, 
take out the onion, and pour the 
sauce over thin slices of toast, on 
which arrange the chickens. Garnish 
vrith fried parsley. 

Chicken with Dumplings (New Eng- 
land recipe). 
3 or 4 pound chicken, 
1 tablespoon ful salt, 
1 teaspoonful pepper, 
3 onions, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
i cupful milk, 

2 cupfuls prepared flour. 

Cut chicken in 10 pieces and place 
in saucepan. Add salt, pepper, and 
onion, cover with boiling water, and 
cook till tender; then mix flour with 
butter, and thicken the gravy. Ten 
minutes before serving, mix pre- 
pared flour with butter and milk, and 
2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth; cut 
with a tablespoon small portions 
frota the dough, drop them into the 
gravy, cover, and boil six minutes; 
remove the saucepan to side of stove, 
where they may stop boiling. In 
serving, arrange the chicken on a 
platter, and lay the dumplings in a 
circle around it. Sprinkle 1 table- 
spoonful chopped parsley over the 
whole, and serve. This dough will 
make 12 dumplings. 



Chicken Baked in Milk. 

Prepare a chicken as though for 
roasting. Mix a dressing — using 
crumbed bread, butter, salt, and pep- 
per. Stuff the chicken with this 
mixture; place it in a baker. In the 
bottom of the pan put 2 quarts rich 
milk; cover, and bake slowly, until 
the chicken is very -tender, turning 
and basting as often as necessary. 
Thicken the gravy in the pan, season- 
ing with salt and pepper. 

Chicken in Casserole. 
2i-pound chicken, 
1 can mushrooms, 
1 carrot, 
1 onion, 
1 stalk celery, 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
i teaspoonful pepper, 
1 teaspoonful beef extract, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

2 cupfuls boiling water. 

Clean and truss the chicken, and 
steam untU tender. Melt the butter 
in a frying pan, add the vegetables 
chopped fine, cook five minutes, then 
add the flour. Dissolve the beef ex- 
tract in boiling water, add the sea- 
sonings, and pour it into the frying 
pan. Cook five minutes. Put the 
chicken in a casserole, dredge with 
flour, dust with salt and pepper, and 
pour the contents of the frying pan 
over it. Place it in the oven, and 
cook until the chicken is thoroughly 
browned. Remove from the oven, 
cover, and serve in the casserole. 

Fanned Chicken. 

Prepare a chicken as for broiling, 
slightly flatten it, cover with bits of 
butter, and place in a moderate oven. 
When nearly done, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and dredge with flour; 
return to the oven and brown, first 
on one side, then on the other. Keep 
hot while yon make the sauce. Pour 
a cupful hot milk into the pan, and 
add 1 tablespoonful grated bread 
crumbs, also a few drops onion juice. 
Stir the sauce vigorously, let it boil 



POULTRY 



135 



one minute, turn over the chicken, 
garnish with parsley, and serve. 

I'ried Chicken (Southern recipe). 

Cut a young chicken into neat 
pieces, drop in cold v^ater, then roll 
in flour seasoned with salt and pep- 
per. Put it in a saucepan with fat 
which has been fried out of salt pork, 
and cook, turning once or twice till 
it is well browned. Skim off as much 
of the fat as possible, add a cupful 
cream or rich milk, thicken with a 
little flour, seasoning if necessary, 
and strain over the chicken. 

Chicken with Almond Sauce (South- 
ern recipe). 
1 young chicken, 
1 tablespoonful lard, 
1 tablespoonfiil flour, 

3 cupfuls cream, 

1 tablespoonful finely chopped 
parsley, 

1 cupful chopped blanched al- 
monds. 

Cut up the chicken as for fricas- 
see; fry golden brown in hot lard. 
Put it on a hot platter and make the 
sauce. Thicken the lard (in which 
the chicken was fried) with the flour; 
when the flour is cooked, add the 
cream, parsley, and almonds. Let it 
boil five minutes, and pour around 
the chicken. 

Chicken with Peanuts (Spanish 

recipe). 

Cut a young chicken into small 
pieces, roll in flour, and fry brown in 
lard or. butter. When the chicken is 
done, pour over it a cupful sweet 
cream and sprinkle liberally with 
roasted peanuts coarsely powdered. 

Creamed Chicken and Sweetbreads. 
4-pound chicken, 

4 sweetbreads, 

1 can mushrooms, 
1 quart cream, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 

5 tablespoonfuls flour, 
4 grated onion. 
Nutmeg, salt, and pepper. 



Boil chicken and sweetbreads; when 
cold, cut them up. In a saucepan 
put cream; in another butter and 
flour. Stir until melted, then pour 
on the hot cream, stirring until it 
thickens; add onion and nutmeg, and 
season highly with pepper and salt. 
Put chicken and other ingredients, 
with sweetbreads and mushrooms, in 
a baking dish, cover with bread 
crumbs and butter, then bake twenty 
minutes. 

Chicken Fie. 

Stew a cut-up chicken in enough 
boiling water to cover, adding pep- 
per and salt. When parboiled, re- 
move to a deep earthen dish and 
cover with a crust. Use a recipe for 
rich baking-powder biscuit. Instead 
of putting a blanket of the dough on 
top of the pie, cut it into rounds, as 
for biscuit. Have the chicken laid 
lightly so the gravy will not touch 
the dough, and cover as closely as 
possible. Bake in a, moderate oven 
until the crust is well risen and 
brown. This is an improvement on 
the old style of all-over crust, partly 
because it allows plenty of escape for 
steam. The biscuit can be easily 
served, and the paste is not made 
heavy by cutting with a knife. 

Roast Turkey. 

Remove the crusts from a stale loaf 
of bread. Break the loaf in the mid- 
dle and grate or rub the bread into 
fine crumbs. Season highly with salt 
and pepper. Add a cup of diced 
celery, cooked tender. With a fork 
mix celery and seasoning through the 
crumbs, then sprinkle with them 3 
or 4 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
With a spoon put the prepared 
crumbs in the place ' from which the 
crop was removed until the breast be- 
comes plump. Put the remaining 
crumbs in the body. Do not pack 
the crumbs closely either in crop or 
body, but allow room for them to 
swell when moistened by the steam 
from the turkey in cooking. Fold 
back the wings. Press the legs close 
to the body, crossing the drumsticks 



136 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



in front of the taU. With small 
skewers and strong cord fasten in 
proper shape. Place the turkey, back 
up, on a rack in the roasting pan. 
When the back is browned, turn the 
turkey over, and when the breast and 
sides are nicely browned, baste with 
a thin gravy every ten or fifteen min- 
utes until the fowl is cooked. An 8- 
pound turkey will cook in two hours. 
Use the water in which the celery 
was cooked to make basting gravy 
for the turkey. — Emma P. Ewing. 

Boast Chicken. 

4-pound chicken. 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 

i cupful boUing water. 

Singe the chicken, wash it quickly 
in cold water, then dry with a towel; 
season inside and out with salt, fill 
the body and crop with bread dress- 
ing, sew it up, and spread butter over 
the breast. Cover the breast with 
thin slices of larding pork; bend the 
wings backward, put skewers through 
the thigh and body, and place it in 
a roasting pan. Set the pan in a 
medium-hot oven and roast until the 
chicken has become a fine brown all 
over, basting frequently with its own 
gravy; then add i cupful boiling 
water; continue the roasting and 
basting tiU the cliicken is done, which 
will take from one to two hours, ac- 
cording to the age of the fowl. If 
the gravy gets too brown, add a lit- 
tle more water. The chicken feet, 
neck, and giblets may be used to 
make rice soup. Shortly before serv- 



ing, lay the chicken on a dish, remove 
the skewers and thread, free the 
gravy from fat, mix the cornstarch 
with cold water, add it to the gravy, 
stir, and cook for a few minutes; 
then add sufficient boiling water to 
make a creamy sauce. Cook three 
minutes, strain, chop the boiled gib- 
lets fine and add to the sauce. 

Biead Dressing. 

i pound stale bread, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

S tablespoonfuls chopped onion, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful pepper, 

1 teaspoonful thym^ 

1 egg. 

Soak bread in cold water, place a, 
saucepan with butter and onions over 
the fire; cook five minutes without 
browning ; inclose the bread in a towel 
and press out all the water, add it 
to the saucepan, stir over the fire five 
minutes, then remove; when cold, add 
salt, pepper, thyme, and egg; mix 
weU and use as stuffing. 

Roast Suck. 

Pick, singe, and wipe outside of 
duck. Salt and pepper the inside 
after carefully drawing and wiping. 
Cut off the wings at the second point 
and truss the duck neatly. Roast in 
a very hot oven from one and a half 
to two hours in a baking pan con- 
taining a little water; baste fre- 
quently. Celery, onions, or apples, 
cored and quartered, are sometimes 
placed inside the duck to improve the 
flavor. 



CHAPTER XXII 



LEFT-OVER CHICKEN AND TURKEY 



Chicken, even at twenty cents a 
pound, is not more extravagant than 
roast beef, when one considers that 
everj morsel of it can be used, even 
to the bleaching of the bones in a 
soup. The carcasses of two good 
chickens or one turkey will make a 
quart or two of excellent stock. This 
means, of course, that every bone, the 
giblets, and every morsel of skin shall 
be saved. A careful housewife gath- 
ers aU these remains into a clean 
bowl and they stand in the refriger- 
ator until ready to be used. Cover 
them with cold water, add the sea- 
sonings suitable for chicken soup, and 
set far back on the stove, where it 
will take at least an hour to begin to 
simmer. In four hours it will be 
ready to strain. Never add salt to a 
soup till after it has cooked. Cool 
the stock as quickly as possible, but 
never by putting it steaming hot into 
the refrigerator. I have seen that 
plan followed in more than one house- 
hold; then I have heard the cook ex- 
claim in wonder over spoiled stock 
and other foods ruined. Still, the 
sooner stock cools, the longer it will 
keep. Do not break the cake of fat 
on top until ready to use; it excludes 
the air and helps keep the soup sweet. 

There is no meat so suitable for 
richaufis as chicken. It makes ex- 
cellent croquettes and timbales. 
Creamedr it loses none of its delicate 
flavor. It is excellent in p8,tis or on 
toast. It is good scalloped, deviled, 
curried, in fritters, or as «o«;^^, while 
on hot simnmer days it appeals to the 
appetite as a salad, in aspic jelly, in 
a mousse, or potted. The meat of 
turkey, game, duck, and goose may 
be treated in many instances as chick- 
en. The flavor of a turkey salad is 

137 



not as delicate as a chicken salad, 
still it is a dish not to be despised. 
The same rule ought to apply to the 
warming over of poultry as to other 
meats. Do not cook it a second time; 
all it requires is reheating. 

Scalloped Turkey. 

Into small ramequin dishes sprinkle 
dried bread crumbs browned in but- 
ter. Over this put a layer, one and 
a half inches deep, of chopped, cold 
turkey moistened by a spoonful 
giblet gravy. Cover with browned 
crumbs, and bake till chestnut brown. 

Chicken-and-Ham Hold. 

3 cupfuls cold chopped chicken, 

1 cupful chopped ham, 

1 cupful cold boiled macaroni, 

3 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 cupful gravy, 

iPepper and salt. 

Mix the chicken, ham, and maca- 
roni, moisten with the eggs, melted 
butter and gravy, season highly. But- 
ter a, mold, pour the mixture in, put 
on cover tightly, and boil two hours. 
Dip the mold into cold water for a 
minute and turn out on a hot dish. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

Chicken Omelet. 

3 tablespoonfuls milk, 

4 eggs. 

Salt and pepper, 
1 cupful chopped cold chicken. 

Beat the eggs till light, add milk 
and seasoning. Just before pouring 
into the pan, add the chicken to the 
egg mixture. Melt the butter in an 



138 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



omelet pan, cook, and fold exactly 
like an omelet. 

Chicken Gallosch (Hungarian 
recipe) . 
3 potatoes (raw), 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
i teaspoonful paprika, 
1 cupful brown stock, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
J clove garlic, 
1 cupful cold chicken. 

Pare 3 small potatoes, cut into 
dice, and fry in melted butter in the 
spider. Toss about in the butter till 
they begin to brown, add the season- 
ing, stock, and chicken. Simmer 
slowly. Serve as soon as the pota- 
toes are soft. 




a. Spoon for Beating Cake; b. Wire Toaster ; 
c, Purie Sieve. 

Chicken and Macaroni (Italian 
recipe). 

1 cupful cold macaroni, 

2 cupfuls cold chicken, 
6 mushrooms, 

i cupful cream, 

J cupful chicken stock, 

i cupful dried bread crumbs. 

Pepper and salt, 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Into a buttered dish put a layer of 
macaroni, then a layer of chicken cut 
in small strips. Sprinkle with pep- 
/per and salt and the mushrooms cut 
in quarters. Cover with a layer of 
macaroni, another of chicken, then 



pour over it the cream and stock. 
Sprinkle buttered bread crumbs over 
the top, and bake brown. If it 
browns too quickly, cover with a 
plate, and pour a little more stock in. 

Chicken Souffle. 

5 tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 tablespoonfids butter, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful pepper, 

2 cupfuls scalded milk, 

2 cupfuls cold chicken, 

i cupful stale bread crumbs, 
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 

3 eggs. 

Make a white sauce from the but- 
ter, flour, salt, pepper, and milk. 
Add the crumbs, and cook until 
thick. Take from the fire and stir 
in the chicken, parsley, and yolks of 
the eggs beaten till thick and lemon- 
colored. Whip the whites until stiff 
and dry and fold in. Pour in a but- 
tered dish and set in a pan of hot 
water to bake in a hot oven thirty- 
five minutes. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

li cupfuls chopped chicken, 

1 cupful chopped ham, 

6 chopped mushrooms, 

4 tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 cupful chicken stock, 
1 tablespoonful cream. 
Pepper and salt. 
Nutmeg, 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Put in a saucepan the flour and 
butter. Mix till the butter absorbs 
the flour, then add stock made from 
boiling up the bones of the chicken, 
and stir till it becomes a thick paste. 
Add cream, pepper and salt enough 
to season, a little nutmeg and lemon 
juice. Stir in the chopped chicken 
and mushrooms. Mix well and turn 
on a plate to cool. When quite cold, 
roll a tablespoonful mixture in 
oblong shape, dip in egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. — ^Mar- 
garet Baiixt. 



CHAPTER XXIII 



MEAT OR FISH SAUCES 



Celery Sauce. 

1 tablespoonful flour, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
3 cupfuls milk, 

1 head celery. 

Cut celery into pieces two inches 
long' and boil in salted water for an 
hour. Mix smoothly flour, butter, and 
milk, stir until boiling; add the celery 
pulp, season with salt and pepper and 
a little mace; let it boU quickly for 
two minutes. Strain. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Bone 4 anchovies and bruise in a 
mortar to a smooth paste; stir them 
in a drawn-butter sauce, simmer five 
minutes, or stir in 2 teaspoonfuls es- 
sence of anchovy. A little cayenne 
is an improvement. 

Cardinal Sauce. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 

3 cupfuls stock, 

J teaspoonful onion juice, 

1 bay leaf. 

Cardinal sauce is, as a rule, made 
from lobsters and colored with coral; 
so, if possible, purchase lobsters con- 
taining coral. Boil the lobster, open 
and remove the coral, and press it 
through a sieve. Put the butter into 
pan and let melt. Add flour without 
browning, then add stock, onion juice, 
and bay leaf. Stir constantly until 
it boils. Take out bay leaf, add salt 
and pepper, the coral, and a little of 
the red part of the lobster chopped 
fine. 

Sauce Soublse. 
3 onions, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour. 



Peel and chop onions, simmer with 
butter for three quarters of an hour, 
but do not let them color very much. 
Add flour, salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of mace, and mix all together; moist- 
en with a cup of fish liquor and the 
same quantity of hot cream or milk. 
Serve in tureen. 

Sauce AUemande. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
4 tablespoonfuls flour, 

3 cupfuls white stock. 
Yolks 3 eggs. 

Melt butter and mix thoroughly 
with flour over a gentle fire; add 
stock and a little salt and pepper; 
stir, boil fifteen minutes, remove from 
fire, skim off grease carefully, add 
eggs mixed in a little water, and stir 
in with egg beater to make sauce 
light. 

Spanish Sauce. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
4 tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 cupfuls white stock, 

2 J tablespoonfuls lean raw hara, 

1 carrot, 

1 onion sliced, 

1 stalk celery, 

2 cloves. 

Melt butter in saucepan, add flour, 
and stir over a gentle fire until nicely 
browned; mix with white stock, ham, 
carrot, sliced onion, celery, cloves, a 
pinch of salt and pepper; stir until 
beginning to boil, then simmer gently 
on back of stove for one hour; skim 
off grease before serving. 

Sauce Fiquante. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 small carrot, 
6 shallots. 



139 



140 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



1 bunch savory herbs. 

Parsley, 

i bay leaf, 

3 slices lean bacon, 

3 cloves, 

6 peppercorns, 

1 blade mace, 

3 allspice berries, 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
1 cupful stock, 

i teaspoonful sugar, 
Cayenne and salt to taste. 

Put the butter into saucepan with 
the carrot and shallots cut into small 
pieces, add the herbs, bay leaf, spices, 
and ham minced fine; let these in- 
gredients simmer slowly until the bot- 
tom is covered with a brown glaze, 
keep stirring and put in remaining 
ingredients, simmer gently fifteen 
minutes, skim off every particle of 
fat. This is an excellent recipe when 
a sharp but not too acid sauce is 
required. 

Cucumber Cream Sauce. 
1 cucumber, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
J teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
i teaspoonful chopped onion, 
1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, 
f cupful cream. 

Chop cucumber, season with salt, 
parsley, onion, and vinegar. Mix 
thoroughly and drain in colander 
half an hour. When ready to serve, 
add cream beaten stiff. 

Sauce Tartare. 

1 cupful mayonnaise, 

2 sweet pickled cucumbers, 

3 olives, 

1 tablespoonful chopped water 

cress, 
1 teaspoonful capers, 
i teaspoonful onion juice. 

Stir into the mayonnaise the cu- 
cumbers, olives, water cress, capers, 
and onion juice. 

Brown Sauce. 

1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour. 



2 cloves, 

1 bay leaf, 

1 teaspoonful chopped onion, 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Heat stock; blend together butter 
and flour, add to hot stock with 
cloves, bay leaf, parsley, and onion. 
Cook for a few minutes. Strain, and 
serve hot with cannelon of beef or 
rolled beef. 

HoUandaise Sauce. 
i cupful butter. 
Yolks 2 eggs, 
J cupful boiling water, 
J teaspoonful salt. 
Dash cayenne, 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 

Cream the butter, add yolks of eggs 
one at a time, beating it thoroughly, 
then add water. Cook in a. double 
boiler till it thickens to the consist- 
ency of a custard. The seasoning, 
which consists of salt, cayenne, and 
lemon juice, is added just before the 
boiler is lifted from the fire. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

IJ cupfuls white stock, 

1 slice onion, 

1 slice carrot. 

Bit bay leaf. 

Sprig parsley, 

6 peppercorns, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 

4 tablespoonfuls flour, 

1 cupful scalded milk. 

Salt and pepper. 

Cook white stock twenty minutes 
with onion, carrot, bay leaf, parsley, 
and peppercorns, then strain. It 
should be cooked down to about 1 
cupful liquor. Melt butter, add 
flour, add the hot sauce to scalded 
milk, and season. 

White Mushroom Sauce. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 slice carrot, 
1 slice onion. 
Bit bay leaf. 
Sprig parsley. 



MEAT OR FISH SAUCES 



141 



6 peppercorns, 

4 tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 cupftils white stock, 
i can mushrooms, 

i teaspoonful lemon juice. 
Salt and pepper. 

Melt butter, add carrot, onion, bay 
leaf, parsley, peppercorns, flour, and, 
slowly, white stock. Cook five min- 
utes, remove seasonings, and add 
mushrooms cut in pieces. Add lemon 
juice, salt, and pepper. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

I cupful shrimps, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

Salt, pepper, paprika, 

1 teaspoonful anchovy paste. 

Pound shrimps, skins and all, in a 
mortar. Boil afterwards for ten 
minutes in a cupful water. Press the 
liquor through a pur4e strainer. Mix 
butter and flour to a paste; pour over 
it the shrimp liquor. Season with 
salt, pepper, and paprika; add an- 
chovy paste. Just before serving, 
add six shrimps cut in inch pieces. 

Drawn-Butter Egg Sauce. 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonftd flour, 

1 cupful fish stock, 

6 slices hard-boiled egg. 
Salt and pepper. 

Cook together until well mixed the 
butter and flour. Add fish stock. 
Simmer five minutes, season with 
salt and pepper, and serve in a tu- 
reen in which have been placed the 
slices of hard-boiled egg. 

Thin White Sauce. 

3 cupfuls milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
Pepper and salt. 

Put the butter in a small saucepan, 
and let it melt over a slow fire. Add 
the flour, and blend to a paste \i;ith a 



wire whisk. Add the seasonings, 
then the scalded milk, and beat till 
the sauce gets creamy. 

Tomato Sauce. 

J can tomatoes, 
1 slice onion, 
i cupful butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 
Pepper and salt. 

Cook the tomatoes with onion for 
ten minutes, squeeze through a po- 
tato ricer, and to the pulp add the 
butter and flour rubbed to a paste, 
also the seasoning, then beat till 
creamy. 

Horse-B.adish Sauce. 

i cupful grated horse-radish, 

4 tablespoonfuls powdered 
cracker, 

i cupful cream, 

1 tablespoonful powdered sugar, 
i teaspoonful mustard, 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful pepper. 

Blend all the ingredients together, 
heat over boiling water, and serve 
with boiled beef. 

Cold Eorse-Kadish Sauce. 

3 tablespoonfuls grated horse- 
radish, 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

i cupful thick cream. 
Mix the horse-radish, vinegar, and 
seasonings, then beat in with a fork 
the cream, which has been whipped 
to a stiff froth. 
Hint Sauce. 

J cupful sugar, 

J cupful vinegar, 

1 cupfid fresh mint. 
Strip the mint free from its tough 
leaves and stalks; chop it slightly, 
wash and put in the vinegar, melt the 
sugar in a tablespoonful boiling wa- 
ter, add it to the sauce, and serve 
cold with roast lamb. 



CHAPTER XXIV 



VEGETABLES 



Potatoes, peas, corn, beans, and 
many of the vegetables which are 
universally used, receive fair treat- 
ment, but in American kitchens there 
is still much to learn on the subject 
of how to make the best of what a 
country cook calls " greens." In the 
spring, one craves this sort of food 
for the well-being of the body and 
because appetite demands it. The 
earth yields with the seasons exactly 
the sort of food we ought to eat, and 
eat liberally, for it is nature's own 
medicine. First, let us divide vege- 
tables into classes. There are such 
cereals as rice, then corn, and le- 
gumes, which include the large fam- 
ily of beans, peas, and lentils. In 
the root class we have beets, carrots, 
parsnips, turnips, and radishes. Green 
vegetables include a variety of things 
herbaceous, from cabbage to dande- 
lions. In bulbs there is the onion 
family and garlic; then what are 
called fruit vegetables, eggplant, pep- 
pers, okra, cucimibers, and squash. 
There is also the fungous class, such 
as mushrooms and truffles. Each 
class has a different food value; they 
require different treatment in cook- 
ery and are suited to accompany dif- 
ferent foods, although our nation 
would be in no way the loser, either 
in health or economy, if it learned, 
like the French people, to make an 
excellently cooked vegetable serve for 
one course. 

Before we consider the cooking of 
vegetables, let us study what their 
properties are and what they do 
for our bodies. Every vegetable 
contains more or less of what is 
called cellulose tissue. This helps 
to keep the stomach and intes- 
tines perfectly healthy. For instance. 



when we eat meat, we put into our 
stomachs a highly concentrated food 
that requires the addition of other 
foods, bulky and less easily digested, 
to make a perfectly balanced meal. 
Strange as it may seem, the value of 
vegetables lies in the fact that they 
are made up largely of a membranous 
substance so bulky and full of refuse 
that the stomach expels it to the in- 
testines almost in an unchanged con- 
dition. Meanwhile, the blood has 
taken to itself such mineral matter 
and salts as are necessary to the hu- 
man system. While digestion is in 
progress, the loose mass of cellulose 
is keeping up the peristaltic action 
that goes on for several hours after 
eating in the healthy stomach. It is 
not necessary that there be nourish- 
ment in everything we eat. We re- 
quire the pure distilled water and 
salts of green vegetables just as much 
as we do the proteid of meat and the 
nitrogen of legumes. 

To get the fullest value from vege- 
tables, they must be fresh. The coun- 
try woman, who can pick green things 
from her garden before the dew has 
dried from them, is lucky indeed. 
The best that can be done by a. city 
housewife is to do her own market- 
ing intelligently and carefully. In 
marketing, beware of root vegetables 
which are overclean about the roots. 
The greengrocer has his method of 
reviving stale goods; roots are soaked 
from a withered condition back to a 
fresh appearance. Cabbage and let- 
tuce are skillfully stripped of their 
outer leaves, and although dirty, 
sandy spinach is less attractive in 
looks than cleaner leaves, it is apt to 
be fresher than that which has been 
revived by washing. Even cucumbers, 



143 



VEGETABLES 



143 



eggplant, and tomatoes can be re- 
vived by an ice-water bath. Within 
thin, membranous walls vegetables in- 
close a semifluid mass that stores up 
minute cells of starch or other ma- 
terial. As soon as the tender growth 
of the young plant is over, these cells 
grow woody and tough. 

You can readily see this process in 
old asparagus, something we hesitate 
to eat; yet in thousands of families 
stale vegetables, which have devel- 
oped the same conditions as if they 
were old, are used for economy's 
sake. It would really, in such a case, 
be better to omit vegetables from a 
menu. One is eating woody fiber, 
which can be torn apart like threads, 
and is almost as easy as thread to di- 
gest. Suppose we see for ourselves 
just what this fibrous mass is like. 
Take two messes of peas, one of them 
green things fresh from the. pod. Cook 
in boiling water. They will be ready 
for the table in ten minutes, but first 
make them into a purie by forcing 
the pulp through a potato ricer. They 
contain little but pulp. Nothing ex- 
cept skins is left in the strainer. The 
value of fresh green peas lies in the 
sugar and mineral salts they contain. 
Now, take old dried peas such as are 
used as a base for soup. They have 
been soaking for twenty-four hours 
in cold water. Afterwards long, slow 
cooking softens them so they can be 
squeezed through the ricer. Then it 
actually takes muscle to get a purie 
from them, and it is small in propor- 
tion to the residue retained by the 
strainer. They are not only the dry, 
husky skins of the peas, but a quan- 
tity of pure waste which no stomach 
can properly digest. Still, this pulp 
made into a soup is a nutritious dish. 
That is why so many people with slow 
digestion can take in soup such vege- 
tables as corn, tomato, beans, lentils, 
and celery, when the vegetable in its 
entirety would cause no end of dis- 
tress. 

Every vegetable is almost lacking 
in fat; the legumes have the largest 
proportion, and they average only 
three per cent. Therefore, fat in 



some form is added to every vege- 
table dish. We beat cream or butter 
into mashed potatoes, bake beans with 
a bit of pork on top of them, and 
pour oil over salads. 

Now to the various methods of 
preparation and cooking of vege- 
tables. Probably root vegetables are 
used most largely in every household. 
Keep two utensils for their thorough 
cleaning, a small stiff brush, and a 
square of rough burlap. The brush 
scrubs earth from every crevice. Bur- 
lap is also a splendid cleaner. Put 
your vegetables into cold water and 
rub them thoroughly with it. It will 
bring the skin off clean from new 
potatoes. Carrots, parsnips, and sal- 
sify require scraping after they have 
had a rubbing with the burlap. Tur- 
nips, kohl-rabi, and celeriac should be 
pared. Beets must be well cleansed, 
but not broken anywhere, not even 
have the tops cut, or they will 
" bleed," thus losing their fine sweet 
flavor. With most of the root vege- 
tables, except potatoes, white and 
sweet, the only method for cooking is 
to boil them by dropping them into 
water at a bubbling boil. Turnips, 
carrots, parsnips, kohl-rabi, and ce- 
leriac will cook in half an hour if 
they are young and fresh; winter 
vegetables require from forty to sixty 
minutes. Young beets take an hour; 
old beets require boiling all day. The 
best way to cook them is to consign 
them to the fireless cooker. You can 
make these root vegetables as palat- 
able as skilled French cooks do by the 
simple process of blanching. 

Blanching means bleaching; it re- 
moves from winter vegetables their 
strong, acrid flavor. Then it improves 
their quality. Let us blanch turnips, 
for instance; then you can apply the 
same process to a variety of vegeta- 
bles. Have a large saucepan with 3 
quarts water at a rapid boil; add 1 
tablespoonfvil salt; drop into it the 
pared turnips and bring the water 
back to the boiling point as quickly 
as possible. Cook rapidly, uncovered, 
for thirty minutes. Drain off the wa- 
ter, put the turnips in a strainer, and 



144 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



cool them under the cold-water faucet; 
then set away in a covered dish until 
you are ready to prepare them for the 
table. Cut them into rather large 
pieces, put in a saucepan with a ta- 
blespoonful butter, a dash pepper, a 
teaspoonful salt, and 4 tablespoonfuls 
meat stock or mUk. Cook over a, hot 
fire until the vegetables have absorbed 
both seasonings and liquid. Serve at 
once. 

Blanching of vegetables means a 
saving of time, because they may be 
cooked in the leisurely hours of the 
morning, then quickly reheated when 
dinner is being prepared. Cabbage, 
cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, string 
beans, peas, onions, celery, kobl-rabi, 
carrots, parsnips, spinach, Swiss 
chard, artichokes, and salsify are 
vegetables which may be blanched be- 
fore the final cooking. 

Before using vegetables which form 
heads, such as lettuce, cabbage, cauli- 
flower, kale and Brussels sprouts, 
cleanse thoroughly by soaking half 
an hour, head down, in cold, salted 
water, with a few tablespoonfuls vine- 
gar in it. This makes insects or 
worms concealed among the curly 
leaves crawl out. Spinach requires 
no end of washing. The best way to 
cleanse it is to keep filling two pans 
with cold water and washing the 
greens till not a grain of sand settles 
in the bottom. Celery also reqviires 
thorough washing, as considerable dirt 
clings to both stalks and roots dur- 
ing the blanching process. 

Different vegetables require differ- 
ent methods of boiling. All of them 
should be dropped into water which 
is vigorously bubbling. For a few 
minutes, the process will be inter- 
rupted, but set it over a hot part of 
the stove, where it will begin to boil 
again rapidly. This must be con- 
tinued for herbaceous vegetables, 
young peas, and beans. Root vege- 
tables and cauliflower require gentler 
treathient. To quote a French cook, 
"Do not let the water grin; keep it 
smiling." 

As soon as vegetables are tender, 
lift them off the fire and drain, never 



allowing anything to stay in hot wa- 
ter a minute after it has been cooked. 
This soaking process is what so often 
makes vegetables indigestible, when, 
if properly treated, they would be 
perfectly wholesome. While cooking 
vegetables of any kind, leave the 
saucepan uncovered; volatile bodies 
liberated by heat pass off in steam. 
Cabbage and onions closely lidded 
are sure to fill the house with an un- 
pleasant odor as soon as they are un- 
covered ; if cooked without a lid, odors 
are scarcely noticeable. When peas 
and beans are so ripe as to be slight- 
ly tough, they may stiU be made ap- 
petizing and digestible if J teaspoon- 
ful soda is added to the water. This 
helps to make them tender as well as 
retain the color, but beware of adding 
too much soda; it wiU give the food 
an exceedingly nasty flavor. When 
possible, a skilled cook boils every 
vegetable in distilled water. The 
country cook who has clean, soft, cis- 
tern water at her command, should 
always use it in boiling vegetables. 
The housewife who is compelled to 
use very hard water to cook vegeta- 
bles should soften it slightly hy add- 
ing a dash of soda. 

Vegetables are invaluable for mak- 
ing cream soups. Take green peas, 
for instance. Boil 1 quart peas and 
1 small onion in 3 pints water. When 
soft, squeeze the pur4e through a po- 
tato ricer; add it to the liquor in 
which the vegetables were boiled. Rub 
together 1 tablespoonful flour with 2 
tablespoonfuls butter. This makes 
sufBcient thicu.ening. Season with 3 
level teaspoonfuls salt and J tea- 
spoonful pepper; then add 1 quart 
scalding-hot milk. Cook ten minutes, 
stirring frequently. Serve with crou- 
tons or wafers. The outside stallis of 
celery, corn, beans, onions, potatoes, 
cauliflower, spinach, leeks, tomatoes, 
or lettuce may often be economically 
converted into cream soups. In this 
way a vegetable left-over is deli- 
cioxisly re-served. 

Boiling potatoes is such an every- 
day task that it seems almost xm- 
necessary to offer a recipe for it, yet 



VEGETABLES 



145 



how. seldom do we find a cook make 
the best of potatoes. If potatoes are 
" new," they should merely have their 
skins rubbed off with the burlap 
scrubber; if old, wash them well, soak 
half an hour in cold water, then pare 
off a ring lengthwise around the po- 
tato. This allows the sldn to be ta- 
ken off easUy after boiling. Put 
them in a saucepan with plenty of 
boiling water, add a tablespoonful 
salt, boil another fifteen minutes, then 
drain off every drop of water, and 
leave them to dry for ten minutes 
covered with a folded towel. A fav- 
orite method for serving many vege- 
tables is In cream sauce. A dish of 
creamed cauliflower wiU illustrate 
how potatoes, carrots, cabbage, peas, 
parsnips, artichokes, salsify, celery, 
onions, Brussels sprouts, and aspara- 
gus may be cooked. Blend 1 table- 
spoonful butter with 1 tablespoonful 
flour; then add gradually 1 pint hot 
milk, and beat till creamy. Add 1 
teaspoonful salt, a dash pepper, and 
a small head blanched cauliflower 
broken into branches. Set it at the 
back of the stove where it may cook 
slowly for ten minutes. 

The best way to cook spinach for 
preserving its refreshing and laxative 
qualities is not to add water, for af- 
ter thorough washing the leaves re- 
tain enough moisture to steam it. Put 
it dry in a saucepan over the fire; in 
ten minutes it will be ready to drain 
and chop. Afterwards return it to 
the pan and season with 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter and a teaspoonful 
salt. Let it simmer ten minutes be- 
fore serving. Old, tough spinach is 
better if blanched before it is sea- 
soned and served. 

Boiled lettuce. 

Wash 4 or 5 heads lettuce, remov- 
ing thick, bitter stalks and retaining 
all the sound leaves. Cook in boiling 
salted water for ten or fifteen min- 
utes, then blanch in cold water. 
Drain, chop lightly, and heat in a 
stewpan with butter and pepper to 
taste, or the chopped lettuce may be 
heated with a pint of white sauce 



seasoned with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg. After simmering for a few 
minutes in the sauce, draw to a cooler 
part of the range and stir in well- 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs. 

Beet Oreens. 

Wash thoroughly, put into a stew- 
pan, and cover with boiling water. 
Add a, teaspoonful salt for every 3 
quarts greens. Boil rapidly for thir- 
ty minutes. Drain off the water, 
chop rather coarsely, season with but- 
ter and salt. 

Asparagus Tips in Cream. 

Cut the tender part of asparagus 
into short pieces. Add boiling water 
enough to cover the vegetable, and 
cook fifteen minutes. Serve in a 
cream dressing. 

Boiled Peas with Butter. 

Put 1 quart shelled peas in a stew- 
pan and add enough boiling water to 
cover them generously. When they 
begin to boil, draw back where the 
water will bubble gently. When ten- 
der, add 1 teaspoonful salt and 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls butter. Cook ten min- 
utes longer. If the peas are not the 
sweet kind, add a teaspooaful sugar. 

Peas with Pork. 
1 quart peas, 
4 ounces pork, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 
J cupful water, 

2 small white onions, 
J teaspoonful pepper. 

Cut pork into small bits. Put but- 
ter into stewpan; when it melts add 
the pork and cook gently until light 
brown, then add the water, peas, 
onion, and pepper. This is a good 
way to cook peas when they are old. 

Peas with Lettuce (French recipe). 
1 quart peas, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 head lettuce (the heart), 

1 small onion, 

1 teaspoonful sugar, 

J cupful water. 



146 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Put the vegetables into a stewpan, 
cover, and cook for five minutes. 
Draw the pan back where the con- 
tents will simmer slowly for half an 
hour, drain, season, and serve hot. 

Sugar Feas in the Fed. 

Gather the pods while the peas are 
very small. String them like beans 
and cut into two or three lengths. 
Cover with boiling water, and boil 
gently twenty-five or thirty minutes. 
Season with salt and butter, and 
serve at once. 

Shelled Beans Stewed. 

1 quart shelled beans, 

i pound salt pork, 

1 onion, 

J teaspoonful pepper, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 quart boiling water. 

Salt to taste. 
Cut the pork in slices and fry ten 
minutes in a, stewpan. Add the 
onion, cut fine, cook twenty minutes. 
Cover the beans with boiling water 
and boil ten minutes. Drain off the 
water. Put the beans and flour in 
the stewpan with the pork and onion, 
and stir over the fire five minutes. 
Add the boiling water and pepper. 
Place the saucepan where its contents 
will simmer for two hours. 

Green Lima Beans. 

Cover 1 quart shelled beans with 
boiling water. Place on the fire 
where they will boil up quickly, then 
draw back where they will simmer 
until done. When tender, pour off 
part of the water. Season with a 
teaspoonful salt and 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter. 

Dried Beans Santed. 

Soak beans over night, and cook 
until tender, but not broken. Drain 
when soft. For 1 quart beans put 3 
tablespoonfuls butter in a stewpan. 
When hot, put in the beans, which 
have been seasoned with a tablespoon- 
ful salt and J teaspoonful pepper. 
Cook for fifteen minutes, frequently 
turning the beans with a fork. Cover, 



and let cook slowly for half an hour. 
If they are liked moist, add a cupful 
meat broth, then cook for half an 
hour. 

Baked Lentils. 

1 quart lentils, 

1 quart water, 

6 ounces mixed salt pork, 

1 clove garlic or 1 small onion, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful pepper. 

Pick over and wash the lentils. 
Soak in cold water over night. In the 
morning pour off the water and put 
them in a stewpan with 2 quarts cold 
water and place on the fire. As soon 
as the water begins to boil, the len- 
tils will rise to the top. Take them 
off with a skimmer and put in a deep 
earthen dish, with the pork and onion 
in the center. Mix the pepper and 
salt with a quart boUing water and 
add. Put the dish in a moderate 
oven, and cook slowly four or five 
hours. The lentils must be kept 
moist, and it may be necessary to add 
a little water from time to time. — 
Mabia Paruoa. 

Stewed Okra. 

Use only the small green pods, not 
more than two and a half inches 
long. Wipe the pods, cut off the 
stems and tips, if the latter be dis- 
colored. Put them into boiling salted 
water and cook gently for twenty 
to thirty minutes. Drain off the wa- 
ter, add 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 ta- 
blespoonful vinegar, and a little pep- 
per and salt. Let them simmer at the 
back of the range until the butter is 
absorbed, then turn out without 
breaking the pods, and serve hot. 

Baked Hubbard Sc[nash. 

Select a thoroughly ripened squash, 
cut in halves and remove the seeds, 
scraping the inside thoroughly. Bake 
one and a half hours in a moderate 
oven, remove the thin brown skin and 
with a spoon scrape the squash out of 
the shell into a hot dish, mashing it 
with butter, salt, and pepper to taste. 



VEGETABLES 



147 



Scalloped Onions. 

Boil 6 or 8 onions till tender, 
changing the water once. Separate 
them with a fork and arrange in lay- 
ers in a buttered earthen dish, al- 
ternating the layers with buttered 
bread crumbs. Season with salt and 
pepper, pour over milk to nearly 
cover, spread with melted butter, and 
brown in a moderate oven. 

Yankee Fried Parsnips. 

Scrape parsnips thoroughly and 
parboil in salted water; cut in slices 
lengthwise, dip each piece in mo- 
lasses, and fry in fat. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Succotash. 

Wash, wipe, and remove a thin 
slice from the stem end of 6 toma- 
toes, scoop out the inside, sprinkle 
with salt, invert, stand half an hour. 
Mix the pulp with 1 cupful succo- 
tash; stuff the tomatoes and arrange 
them in a buttered pan, sprinkle the 
top of each with buttered cracker 
crumbs. Bake in a hot oven twenty 
minutes. Baste with melted butter. 

Peppers with Macaroni (Italian rec- 
ipe). 

Cut the tops from green peppers, 
remove seeds and core, and let stand 
ten minutes in boiling water. Chop 
cooked macaroni into small pieces 
and mix with a thin cream sauce. 
Drain the peppers, fill with macaroni, 
adding to each a generous spoonful 
of grated cheese. Bake in a granite 
dish with very little water until the 
peppers are tender. Serve with to- 
mato sauce made from fresh or canned 
tomatoes pressed through a sieve and 
thickened with melted butter to 
which a tablespoonful flour has been 
added. Salt and a few drops of 
onion juice should be added, but no 
pepper. 

Pried Turnips. 

Peel the turnips, cut in inch cubes, 
boil until tender, drain, and fry in 
butter until golden brown on both 
sides. 



Potatoes Hashed with Green Peppers. 
To hashed brown potatoes add 
chopped bacon in the proportion of 
one slice to each person, and minced 
red or green peppers. 

Stuffed Cucumbers and White Sauce. 
Peel large cucumbers and cut 
lengthwise; scoop out the centers; 
fill with bread-crumb stuffing, plain 
or mixed with chopped meat; put 
side by side in a pan, and bake in a 
hot oven, basting frequently with 
melted butter and hot water. When 
the cucumbers are soft, remove, and 
put a spoonful white sauce over each 
as it is served. 

Corn Custard. 
6 ears corn, 
3 eggs, 

1 cupful milk, 
J teaspoonful salt. 
Dash cayenne. 

Scrape the corn from the ears, beat 
the eggs, add the milk to the corn, 
then add a seasoning of salt and 
cayenne, and mix the eggs in lightly; 
bake in a deep buttered dish in a pan 
of hot water in the oven till a knife 
blade put into the custard comes out 
dry. Serve at once. 

Pepper Kings. 

Cut a large pepper in 4 rings, re- 
moving the seeds; boil fifteen min- 
utes; cut 4 rounds of stale bread and 
brown them in the oven. Butter the 
slices, lay a ring of pepper on each 
and fill the center with well-seasoned, 
cold minced meat. Moisten with wa- 
ter in which the pepper was boiled, 
adding salt and butter to season, and 
set in the oven. 

Chile con Came (a Mexican recipe). 
Soak 1 pint dried Lima beans over 
night; in the morning arrange in the 
bean pot with 1 pound solid lean 
beef, 2 ounces sweet fat or suet, a red 
pepper cut in rings, and \ onion, 
shaved. Cover with water, season 
with salt, J teaspoonful mustard wet 
up with vinegar, a dash Mcllhenny's 
Tabasco Sauce, and bake slowly in a 



148 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



moderate oven for three or four 
hours. 

To Boil Cabliage. 

Cut a head of cabbage in 4 parts. 
Soak half an hour in a pan of cold 
water to which has been added a 
tablespoonful salt; this will draw out 
insects or worms that may be hidden 
in the leaves. After soaking, cut in 
slices. Have a large stewpan half 
fiill of boiling water; put in the cab- 
bage, pushing it under the water with 
a spoon. Add 1 tablespoonful salt, 
and cook twenty-five to forty min- 
utes. Turn into a colander and 
drain; put in a chopping bowl and 
mince. Season with butter, pepper, 
and more salt if required. Allow a 
tablespoonful butter to a pint cooked 
vegetable. 

Cabbage Cooked with Pork. 

For a small head of cabbage use 
i pound salt pork. Boil the pork 
gently for three or four hours. Pre- 
pare the cabbage, and boil rapidly 
till tender. Serve the pork with the 
cabbage. 

Creamed Cabbage. 

2 cupfuls boiled and minced cab- 
bage, 
1 cupful hot milk, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 teaspoonful flour, 
J teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful pepper. 

Put the cabbage, hot milk, salt, and 
pepper in a stewpan. Beat the but- 
ter and flour together until creamy, 
then stir into the contents of the 
stewpan. Simmer ten minutes; serve 
very hot. 

Cabbage and Potato Puree. 

2 cupfuls boiled finely minced 
cabbage, 

6 medium-sized potatoes, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 teaspoonfuls salt, 
i teaspoonful pepper, 
1 cupful hot nulk. 

Peel the potatoes and put them in 
a stewpan with enough boiling water 



to cover. Cook thirty minutes. Pour 
off the water and mash fine. Beat in 
the hot milk, seasoning, and cabbage. 
Cook five minutes longer. 

Boiled Cauliflower. 

Remove the green leaves and the 
greater part of the stalk. Put the 
head in a pan of cold water which 
contains to each quart a teaspoonful 
salt and a teaspoonful vinegar. Let 
it soak an hour or more. Put the 
cauliflower in a large stewpan, stem 
down, and cover with boiling water. 
Add a tablespoonful salt, and cook 
with the cover of the saucepan par- 
tially off, boiling gently all the time. 
A large, compact head requires half 
an hour, small heads from twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. Cauliflower be- 
gins to deteriorate the moment it is 
overcooked. 

Creamed Cauliflower. 

2 cupfuls cooked cauliflower, 

3 cupfuls milk, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 
J teaspoonful pepper, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
J tablespoonful flour, 
3 slices toasted bread. 

Break th^ cauliflower into branches 
and season with half the salt and 
pepper. Put the butter in a sauce- 
pan. When hot, add the flour, and 
stir until smooth, then add the milk, 
stirring all the time. When the sauce 
boils, add salt, pepper, and cauli- 
flower. Cook ten minutes; serve on 
toast. 

Brussels Sprouts Blanched. 

Remove wilted or yellow leaves 
from the sprouts, cut the stocks close 
to the head, and soak in salted cold 
water for an hour or more. Drain 
and put into boiling water. Allow 1 
teaspoonful salt to 2 quarts water. 
Boil rapidly for fifteen minutes. 
When done, turn into a colander and 
pour cold water over them. They are 
ready now to serve with any kind of 
sauce, or can be seasoned with butter, 
salt, and pepper. 



VEGETABLES 



149 



Brussels Sprouts Sauted. 

1 quart Brussels sprouts, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

J teaspoonful salt, 
i teaspoonful pepper. 

Blanch the sprouts and drain well. 
Put them in a saucepan with butter 
and other seasonings. Place over a 
hot fire and shake frequently. Cook 
five minutes; serve hot. 

Kale Boiled with Pork. 

Cook kale the same as cabbage 
with pork. 

Minced Kale (Scotch recipe). 

Remove old or tough leaves. Wash 
the kale thoroughly and drain; then 
put to cook in a kettle of boiling 
water to which has been added 1 
tablespoonful salt to 4 quarts water. 
Boil rapidly tiU tender. Pour off the 
water, and chop the kale fine; put 
back into the kettle, add 1 table- 
spoonful butter and 2 tablespoonfuls 
meat broth for each pint minced 
vegetable. Cook ten minutes, and 
serve at once. The time required for 
cooking kale varies from thirty to 
fifty minutes. 

To Boil Spinach. 

To clean spinach, cut off the roots, 
break the leaves apart and drop in a 
pan of water, rinsing them well. Con- 
tinue washing in clean water until 
there is no sand left in the bottom 
of the pan. Drain and blanch. For 
i peck spinach have 3 quarts boiling 
water and 1 tablespoonful salt. Let 
it cook ten minutes, counting from 
the time it begins to boil. Put the 
spinach in a colander, and pour cold 
water over it. Drain well, and chop. 

Spinach with Cream. 

2 cupfuls boiled spinach, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 
J teaspoonful pepper, 
1 cupful scalded cream. 

Mince the spinach. Put the butter 
in a saucepan on the fire. When hot. 



add the flour and stir until smooth, 
then add the minced spinach and salt 
and pepper. Cook five minutes; then 
add cream, and cook three minutes 
longer. 

Spinach with Egg. 

3 cupfuls boiled spinach, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

4 teaspoonful pepper, 

2 eggs, 

3 teaspoonfuls salt. 

Drain the blanched spinach and 
chop fine, return to the saucepan, and 
add salt, pepper, and butter. Place 
on the fire, and cook ten minutes. 
Heap in a mound on a hot dish, and 
garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut in 
slices. 

Spftiach Cooked without Water. 

Young, tender spinach can be 
cooked without water. When weU 
washed, put in a stewpan over the 
fire; cover, and cook for ten minutes. 
Turn it several times during the 
cooking. Put it in a chopping bowl 
and mince fine. Return to the stew- 
pan and add seasonings, allowing for 
i peck spinach 2 generous table- 
spoonfuls butter and a teaspoonful 
salt. Simmer ten minutes; if very 
tender, five minutes will be sufficient. 

Cucumber Sauted. 

Boil pared and quartered cucum- 
bers for three minutes. Drain the 
pieces, and season with salt and pep- 
per. Roll in flour, and cook in a 
saucepan with butter for twenty min- 
utes. This dish may be varied by 
adding minced parsley and chives 
about five minutes before the cooking 
is finished. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Peel tomatoes and cut in smaU 
pieces. Put into a stewpan on the 
fire. Boil gently twenty minutes or 
half an hour. Season five minutes be- 
fore the cooking is finished. Allow 
for each quart tomato 1 teaspoonful 
salt and sugar and 1 tablespoonful 
butter. 



150 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Scalloped Tomatoes. 

2 cupfuls peeled and cut toma- 
toes, 
2 cupfuls grated bread crumbs, 
1 level teaspoonful salt, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Dash pepper. 

Reserve 3 tablespoonfuls bread 
crumbs, and spread the remainder on 
a pan. Brown in the oven. Mix the 
tomato, browned crumbs, salt, pep- 
per, and half the butter together, and 
put in a shallow baking dish. Spread 
the unbrowned crumbs on top, and 




a. Teller Knife ; b. Cutter for Potato Balls ; 

c, Butler Brush for Greasing Cake Tins; 

d. Pancake Turner ; e. Bent Spoon for Giv- 
ing Medicine, 



dot with the remainder of the butter, 
cut into bits. Bake in a moderately 
hot oven half an hour. 

Stuffed Gieen Peppers (Italian 
recipe). 
6 sweet peppers, 

1 pint soaked stale bread, 

2 teaspoonfuls salt, 

1 tablespoonful fine herbs, 

J teaspoonful sweet basil and 
summer savory, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Cut off the stem end of the pepper 
and remove the interior, being care- 
ful to take out every seed. Fill the 
peppers with the dressing. Place 
them on end in a shallow dish, and 
pour around them a sauce prepared 
as follows: 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

IJ cupfuls meat stock, 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Heat the butter; add the flour. 
Stir until ginpotb and brown, then 



add the meat stock. Season with salt. 
Cook five minutes, pour around the 
stuffed peppers. Put the dish in a 
moderately hot oven and bake the 
peppers one hour, basting with the 
sauce in the dish. Peppers may be 
filled with a well-seasoned dressing 
of chopped meat, with or without the 
addition of bread crumbs or rice. 

Beans in a Casserole (Spanish 
recipe). 

2 cupfuls white or pink beans, 

1 onion, 

Small piece pork or bacon, 

1 cupful canned tomatoes, 

2 shredded chili peppers. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce. 

Soak the beans over night. In the 
morning boil fifteen minutes and 
drain. Fry the onion with the pork 
or bacon. Add these to the beans, 
also the tomato, peppers, salt, and 
sufficient hot water to cover well. 
Boil briskly for ten minutes, then 
put in a casserole, and bake in a slow 
oven four hours. 

Cauliflower Browned. 

Soak cauliflower in cold water for 
a few hours, boil one hour in salted 
water, drain, and sprinkle with a few 
drops of vinegar mixed with salt and 
pepper, and dust with soft bread 
crumbs fried in butter till brown. 

Boiled Turnips. 

Peel and slice the turnips; drop In 
a stewpan with boiling water enough 
to cover. Cook until tender, then 
drain. Mash with a wooden vegeta- 
ble masher. Season with salt, butter, 
and pepper. Serve at once. 

Hashed Turnips. 

Chop drained turnips in large 
pieces. Return to the stevirpan, and 
for IJ pints turnips add a teaspoonful 
salt, i teaspoonful pepper, a table- 
spoonful butter, and 4 tablespoonfuls 
water. Cook over a hot fire until the 
turnips have absorbed the seasonings. 
Serve at once. Or the salt, pepper, 
butter, and a tablespoonful flour may 
be added to the hashed turnips, then 



VEGETABLES 



151 



the stewpan be placed over the hot 
fire and shaken frequently to toss up 
the turnips. When the turnips have 
been cooking five minutes in this 
manner, add J pint meat stock or 
milk, and cook ten minutes. 

Carrots mtli Wliite Sauce. 

Scrape carrots lightly, then cut into 
large dice. Put in a stewpan with 
salted water and boil until tender. 
Young carrots will cook in thirty 
minutes, old ones in forty-five. Drain, 
put back in the stewpan, and for 
every pint add 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, 1 teaspoonful sugar, J teaspoon- 
ful salt, and 1 gill meat stock. Cook 
imtil they have absorbed the season- 
ings and liquid. 

Salsify. 

To prevent salsify from turning 
dark, drop it as soon as pared and 
cut into a mixture of flour and water 
made slightly acid with vinegar. Cook 
thirty minutes, drain, and serve in a 
white sauce. Or mix 1 tablespoonful 
butter, J teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice, and 1 teaspoonful 
minced parsley. Add this to the 
drained salsify, and serve at once. 

Beets with Butter. 

Wash beets, being careful not to 
break the skins. Put in a stewpan, 
cover with boiling water, and boil un- 
til tender. Young beets will cook in 
one hour. When tender, take from 
the boiling water and drop into cold 
water. Rub off the skins. Cut in 
thin slices and season with salt and 
butter. Serve at once. 

Boiled Kohl-Rahi. 

Wash and pare the vegetable, then 
cut in thin slices. Put in salted boil- 
ing water and boil until the vegetable 
is tender. This will take from thirty 
to fifty minutes. Pour off the water, 
and season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Stewed Celery. 

Remove the leaves from the stalks. 
Scrape rusted or dark spots, cut into 



pieces three inches long, and put in 
boiling water. Add 1 teaspoonful 
salt for 2 quarts water. Boil rapidly 
fifteen minutes. Pour off the water, 
rinse with cold water, then drain. 
Finish in the following manner: Put 
the celery in the stewpan with 1 
tablespoonful butter, and 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt for each quart celery. Cover, 
and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. 
Shake the pan frequently while the 
celery is cooking. Serve hot. — Mabia 
Pablo A. 

Boiled Onions in White Sauce. 

Peel the onions and drop in cold 
water. Put in a stewpan with boil- 
ing salted water. Cook rapidly for 
ten minutes. Drain off the water 
and cover the onions with hot milk. 
Simmer half an hour. Beat together 
1 tablespoonful butter and 1 level 
tablespoonful flour. Add 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt and J' teaspoonful white pep- 
per. Gradually beat in J cupful of 
the milk in which the onions are cook- 
ing. When smooth, stir the mixture 
into the onions and milk. Let it cook 
ten minutes longer. 

Stewed Onions. 

Cut the onions in slices and boil in 
salted water ten minutes. Drain, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, i teaspoonful pepper. 
Cover the stewpan, and cook over a 
hot fire five minutes, shaking the pan 
occasionally. Set it back where it 
will cook slowly for forty minutes. 

Stewed Cucumbers. 

Stew pared cucumbers, cut in 
quarters, for fifteen minutes, with a 
little water and a small minced onion. 
Pour off the water; stir in flour, but- 
ter, and salt; heat for two or three 
minutes, then serve. 

Baked Eggplant. 

For baked eggplant make a dress- 
ing as for stuffed peppers, except 
that a little more salt, pepper, and 
butter are used. Cut the eggplant in 
two lengthwise, scrape out the inside, 
and mash fine, then mix with the 



152 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



dressing and return to the shells. 
Place on a pan in the oven. Cook 
forty-five minutes. — ^Maeia Pabloa. 

I^ied Eggplant. 

Cut the vegetable in slices half an 
inch thick and pare. Sprinkle with 
salt and pile them upon one another; 
put a plate with a weight on top. 
Let them rest an hour, then remove 
weight and plate. Add 1 tablespoon- 
ful water, i tablespoonful salt, and 
J teaspoonful pepper to an egg. Beat 
well. Dip the slices of eggplant in 
the egg, then in dried bread crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. 

Broiled Eggplant. 

The eggplant is sliced and drained; 
then spread the slices on a dish, sea- 
son with pepper, baste with salad oil, 
sprinkle with dried bread crumbs, 
and broil. 

Snmmer Squash. 

Wash the squash, cut into small 
pieces, and cook in boiling water or 
steam. The cooked squash is mashed 
fine and seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and butter. 

Boiled Com on the Cob. 

Free the corn from husks and 
"sUk." Drop into boiling water, and 
cook ten minutes. 

Corn Cut from Cob. 

Corn may be cut from the cob and 
heated with butter, pepper, and a lit- 
tle milk. First cook the ears five 
minutes in boiling water to set the 
juice. Then with a sharp knife cut 
through the center of each row of 
grains, and with the back of a knife 
press the grains from the hulls. Put 
it in a saucepan and season with salt, 
pepper, and butter. Add enough hot 
milk to moisten well, and cook ten 
minutes. 

Beans -with Gravy (Mexican recipe). 
Soak 2 cupfuls beans over night; 
in the inoming add a small onion and 
boil gently until soft; take out the 
onion and drain the beans. Put a 



tablespoonful lard in a skiUet, and 
when sizzling hot add the drained 
beans. Mix beans and lard thor- 
oughly until each bean seems to have 
a coating of the fat and begins to 
burst. Add a cupful liquid in which 
the beans were boiled, and gently 
crush a few of the beans with the 
spoon to thicken the gravy. Add the 
remainder of the bean liquor and a 
chopped chili pepper, and simmer un- 
til the beans are dry. 

Cidracayote (Mexican recipe). 

Take young summer squash, wash 
and cut into dice. Put in a stewpan 
a tablespoonful lard, and when hot 
add i teaspopnful finely minced 
onion; stir, then put in the squash, 
salt, and black pepper. Fry for ten 
minutes, stirring often, add tender, 
sweet corn fresh from the cob, J cup- 
ful corn to a pint squash. Cook until 
sufSciently soft to mash. — ^Mat E. 

SODTHWOKTH. 

Ejotes con Vino (Mexican recipe). 

Cook string beans until tender in 
boiling salted water. Fry a little 
chopped onion and green pepper in 
oil till brown; add the beans, with a 
seasoning of salt and pepper. 

Estilo Seco (Mexican recipe). 

Boil a pint pink beans until tender. 
Put in a frying pan a heaping table- 
spoonful lard and butter mixed ; drain 
the beans and put into the boiling 
fat; add a sliced onion, salt, and red 
pepper. Stir and brown slightly. 
Ten minutes before taking from the 
frying pan, add 7 tablespoonfuls 
grated American cheese. Serve with 
thin slices of hot buttered toast and 
sliced cuciunbers with oil and vine- 
gar. — Mat E. Southwobth. 

Suculento (Mexican redpe). 

Fry i poimd chopped salt pork 
with a sliced onion and 6 green pep- 
pers cut small. When brown, add a 
can of corn and 4 small summer 
squashes sliced. Cover with milk, and 
cook slowly two hours, without stir- 
ring. 



VEGETABLES 



153 



Beans a la Bretonne (French recipe). 
Boil J pint tiaricot beans till tender; 
slice 4 large onions, and fry tliem in 
butter till brown. Put the beans and 
onions together in a stewpan, and add 
a little strong stock, pepper and salt, 
and finely minced parsley. Serve hot. 

Beans a la Poulette (French recipe). 
Put young, tender beans in a stew- 
pan with plenty of water, and a 
handful salt, and set them over a 
strong fire. When done, blanch, 
drain, and put in a stewpan with a 
bit of butter, an onion or two cut in 
dice, and previously fried in butter. 
Sprinkle in a tablespoonful flour; let 
them stew a few minutes, but do not 
allow them to brown; add a spoonful 
stock, some minced parsley and green 
onions, with salt and pepper. Let 
them come to a boil, stirring well, 
and thicken with the yolks 2 eggs, 
beaten in a little cream. Just before 
serving, add the juice of a lemon. 

Turnips Glace an Sucre (French 

recipe). 

Clean young, tender turnips, put 
them in a stewpan with a small piece 
of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, a 
little salt, and J pint stock. Simmer 
forty minutes. When nearly done, 
place the stewpan over a brisk fire to 
reduce the sauce to a glaze, rolling 
the turnips about in it, but with great 
care to avoid breaking them; dish, 
and pour the glazed sauce over them. 

Stewed Ked Cabbage. 

Split a red cabbage, cut in thin 
slices, soak in salt and water, then 
put in a saucepan with some stock 
and a little butter blended with flour; 
add pepper and salt, a glass of vine- 
gar, and a bit of bacon. Stew till 
tender, take out the bacon, and serve. 

Shredded B.ed Cabbage (Dutch 

recipe). 

Cut a red cabbage in shreds and 
boil till tender; drain as dry as pos- 
sible; put in a stewpan with a table- 
spoonful pure olive oil, a tablespoon- 
ful butter, 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 



and water, an onion cut small, some 
pepper and salt. Let it simmer till 
all the liquor evaporates. This is 
eaten in Holland hot or cold. 

Chouffleurs au Gratin (French 
recipe). 

1 cauliflower, 

2 tablespoonfuls grated Parme- 
san cheese, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Dash pepper and salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

Yolks 2 eggs. 
Boil the cauliflower, drain, put it 
on the dish in which it is to be served ; 
prepare a sauce of the cheese, butter, 
pepper, and salt, lemon juice, and 
yolks of eggs beaten; beat and mix 
together, pour it over the cauliflower, 
grate Parmesan cheese over the top, 
put in the oven, and bake twenty min- 
utes. Brown the top. 

Artichokes a la Creme (French 

recipe). 

Boil artichokes in salted water; 
when they are done, drain. About 
half an hour is sufficient to cook them 
if they are tender. Toss in butter in 
a stewpan, add some cream and a lit- 
tle chopped parsley. Thicken the 
sauce with the yolk of an egg; season 
with salt and cayenne. 

Leland Tomatoes (English recipe). 

Wipe 4 tomatoes, pare, and cut in 
3 slices. Sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, dredge generously with flour, 
and sautfi in butter, first on one side, 
then on the other. Remove to a hot 
serving dish and pour over them the 
following sauce: Melt 2i tablespoon- 
fuls butter, add 2i teaspoonf uls flour, 
and stir until blended; then pour on, 
while stirring or beating constantly, 
1 cupful milk. Bring to the boiling 
point, season with salt and pepper. 

Tomato Surprise. 
6 tomatoes, 
2 hard-boiled eggs, 
2 tablespoonfuls red pepper, 
2 tablespoonfuls green pepper, 
1 shallot. 



154 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



1 clove garlic, 
4 anchovies. 

Wipe the tomatoes, cut a slice from 
the stem end of each, scoop out the 
inside, invert, and stand thirty min- 
utes. Add the eggs, peppers, shallot, 
garlic and anchovies finely chopped. 
Moisten with mayonnaise dressing. 
Fill the tomato cases with the mixt- 
ure, mask with mayonnaise, and gar- 
nish with anchovies. Serve as a first 
course at dinner. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 

Wipe and cut tomatoes in halves 
crosswise; then cut a thin slice from 
the rounding part of each. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, 
egg, and crumbs again, place in a 
well-buttered broiler, and broil six to 
eight minutes. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Wipe 6 smooth, medium-sized to- 
matoes and remove a thin slice from 
the stem end of each. Take out the 
seeds and pulp and drain off most 
of the liquid. Add to the pulp an 
equal quantity of buttered cracker 
crumbs, and season with salt, pepper, 
and a few drops of onion juice. Re- 
fill the tomatoes with the mixture, 
place in a buttered pan, sprinkle with 
buttered cracker crumbs, and bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Deviled Tpmatoes. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar, 
1 teaspoonful mustard, 

I teaspoonful salt. 
Few grains cayenne. 
Yolk hard-boiled egg, 
1 egg slightly beaten, 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

Wipe, peel, and cut tomatoes in 
slices. Sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, dredge with flour, and saut£ in 
butter. Remove to a hot serving 
dish, and pour over a dressing made 
from the above ingredients. Cook 
over hot water, stirring constantly, 
until the mixture thickens. 



Pried Com. 

Scrape corn carefully from the cob. 
Cut through the center of the kernel, 
so that all the pulp and juices may 
be extracted without the removal of 
the hulls. Sift a little flour over the 
corn, with salt and pepper to taste. 
Place some slices of bacon over the 
fire in frying pan, until all the grease 
has been extracted. Remove the meat 
and put the corn in the pan to fry in 
the bacon fat until it becomes deli- 
cately brown and tender; it must be 
stirred constantly for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. 

Corn Patties Garnished with Husks. 
Green corn, 
3 eggs, 

1 cupful fine cracker crumbs, 
i teaspoonful sugar. 
Pepper and salt. 

This calls for enough green corn 
after it has been grated to make a 
pint. To the corn add 3 eggs and 
the cracker crumbs, season with salt 
and pepper — about J teaspoonful 
pepper and a teaspoonful salt. Add 
the sugar and form the mixture into 
cakes about the size of a large oyster; 
then roll in egg and afterwards in 
cracker crumbs. Wash the corn 
husks and shred the ends with a fork 
for about two inches. Arrange them 
on a platter with the fringe hanging 
over the sides. Cook the patties in 
smoking-hot lard until brown and 
crisp; then heap in a mound in the 
center of the platter and serve at 
once. — Mabia Paeloa. 

Vegetarian Sausages, 

IJ cupfuls Lima beans, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco ■ 
Sauce. 

Soak the beans over night, cook in 
salted water until soft. Drain per- 
fectly dry, then squeeze the pulp 
through a potato ricer. Beat in the 
butter and seasonings. If not moist 



VEGETABLES 



155 



enough, add a beaten egg or as much 
of it as required, make the paste so 
soft it can be rolled into croquettes. 
Shape like small sausages, dip in 
beaten egg and flour, then fry in but- 
ter, rolling the sausages over in the 
pan till brown on all sides. Serve 
with cold slaw. 



Beans a la Bretonne (French recipe). 

J pint haricot beans, 

4 large onions, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 cupful brown stock. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful finely minced pars- 
ley. 

Boll the beans till tfender; slice the 
onions thin, and fry in butter till 
brown. Put the beans and onions in 



a stewpan and add the stock, pepper, 
salt, and parsley. Serve very hot. 

Prenoh Beans k la Foulette (French 

recipe). 

Put young, tender beans in a 
stewpan with plenty of salted water. 
When cooked, blanch, dr^iin, and re- 
turn to stewpan with a bit of butter. 
Sprinkle in a tablespoonful flour; let 
them stew a few minutes, but do not 
allow them to brown; add a table- 
spoonful stock, minced parsley, and 
green onions with salt and pepper. 
Let them come to a boil, stir well, 
thicken with yolks 3 eggs, beaten in a 
little cream. Just before serving, 
add juice of a lemon. 

Curried Onion. 

Fry sliced onions in butter or fat; 
salt and pepper, then add 1 teaspoon- 
fiJ curry, 3 raw eggs, and a few 
drops lemon juice. Serve hot. 



CHAPTER XXV 



LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES 



The possibilities for utilizing cold 
vegetables are greater than for any 
dish that comes to the American ta- 
ble. Almost every vegetable in com- 
mon use, from the ragged outside 
leaves of lettuce to a cupful cold 
string beans, may reappear as a tasty 
Iiot dish or a tempting salad. Left- 
over spinach, corn, lettuce, tomato, 
string beans, peas, squash, cauliflower, 
carrots, onions, or beans may be con- 
verted into savory soups, and nearly 
every vegetable in the marlset when 
cold can reappear as a salad. If the 
left-overs are many and small, the 
result may be a Macedoine salad. 
This is the name given to a salad in 
which cold boiled vegetables are com- 
bined. Each vegetable is kept sepa- 
rate, and generally the dish can be 
arranged in such a charming scheme 
of color that it is a pleasure to the 
eye. Vegetables may be cut in cubes, 
strips, triangles, tiny balls, or in 
fancy shapes, formed by a vegetable 
cutter. During the summer, when 
young beets, turnips, carrots, and 
green vegetables are at their best, 
these salads may be had in perfection. 
If left-overs of vegetables come from 
the table coated with cream sauce or 
mayonnaise, put each by itself in a 
colander. Wash off in cojd water, 
drain thoroughly, chill before using, 
and it will be as good as if freshly 
cooked. Plenty of a crisp green 
vegetable, lettuce, water cress, or 
parsley, is necessary to make a Mace- 
doine salad perfect. 

Spinach in Holds. 

2 cupfuls cold spinach. 
Pepper and salt, 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 



Drain the spinach and chop fine. 
Season and stir in the melted butter. 
Butter Dario molds and pack in the 
mixture. Set on ice until chilled. 
Remove from the molds and arrange 
the spinach on thin slices of cold 
boiled tongue cut in rounds. Garnish 
the base of each with parsley, and 
serve on top a spoonful sauce tar- 
tare. 

Baked-Bean Sandwiches. 
i cupful baked beans, 
1 tablespoonful horse-radish, 
1 teaspoonful celery and parsley 

minced fine, 
i teaspoonful onion juice, 
i teaspoonfxd mustard. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce. 

Press the beans through a potato 
ricer, mix with the seasoning, and 
spread between slices of entire-wheat 
bread. 

Corn Soup. 

1 quart veal stock, 
1 cupful green corn cut from the 
cob and chopped. 

Add the corn to the stock and sim- 
mer slowly for twenty minutes. Add 
pepper and salt to taste, thicken 
slightly, and strain. 

Fea Soup. 

3 cupfuls cold green peas, 

4 cupfuls veal stock, 
1 slice onion, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful pepper, 

2 tablespoonf uls butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Add the peas and onion to the stock 
and simmer till they begin to fall to 



156 



LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES 



157 



pieces. Rub through a sieve, reheat, 
season, and bind with butter and 
flour rubbed together. Peas that are 
too old to serve as a vegetable may 
be used for soup. 

Cream-of-Corn Soup. 
3 cupfuls cold corn, 
2 cupfuls boiling water, 
2 cupfuls milk, 

1 slice onion. 
Sprig parsley, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
Pepper and salt. 

Put the corn through a meat chop- 
per. Add the boiling water and sim- 
mer for twenty-five minutes. Rub 
through a sieve. Scald the milk with 
the onion and parsley. Remove the 
seasonings, and pour the milk over 
the corn pulp. Melt the flour and 
butter together and use for binding. 
Season with pepper and salt. 

Baked-Bean Soup. 

3 cupfuls cold baked beans, 
2 cupfuls water, 

4 cupfuls stock, 

2 slices onion, 

3 stalks celery, 

IJ cupfuls canned tomatoes, 

2 drops Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce, 
Salt and pepper, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Put the beans, celery, onion, to- 
matoes, with the stock and water, 
into a saucepan and simmer half an 
hour. Rub through a sieve, leaving 
nothing in the sieve except the skins 
of the beans and the seeds of the to- 
mato. Add the seasonings, bind with 
the butter and flour melted together.. 

Wilted lettuce. 
1 slice ham, 
i cupful vinegar, 
1 egg, 

i teaspoonful mustard, 
Pepper and salt. 
Outside leaves 2 heads lettuce. 



Fry a slice of ham with some fat 
on. When done, remove the ham, 
leaving the fat gravy in the frying 
pan. Have ready the vinegar, beaten 
egg, mustard and pepper and salt to 
taste. Add the egg to the vinegar 
slowly so it will not curdle. When 
well mixed, pour slowly into the ham 
gravy, stirring well. Let it come to 
a boil. Put the lettuce in with a 
fork, toss and thoroughly mix with 
the hot mixture in the frying pan for 
two minutes. Cover the pan for two 
minutes, then turn out in a deep dish. 

Vegetable Hash. 

From the remains of a boiled din- 
ner there are generally enough left- 
overs to make a vegetable hash. 




o, Meatchopper; b. Wire Spoon for Beating 
Sauces; c. Potato Ricer; d. Glass Measuring 
Cup ; e. Cream Whip. 

Chop coarsely cabbage, turnips, pars- 
nips, potatoes, and J a carrot. Com- 
bine in equal quantities and to each 
pint of the vegetable use a tablespoon- 
ful butter melted in a spider. Pep- 
per and salt to taste and add 2i 
tablespoonfuls brown stock. Cook 
slowly, and let it just come to a boil. 
Serve hot with pickled beets. 

Sauce Eobert. 

2 drops Mcllhenny's Tabasco 

Sauce, 
8 tablespoonfuls oil mayonnaise, 
4 tablespoonfuls French mustard, 
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
2 cold boiled onions. 

Chop the onions fine and mix with 
the other ingredients. This is a deli- 
cious accompaniment to pork tender- 
loin, veal cutlet, lamb chops, or a 
steak. 



158 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Cabbage Jelly (German recipe). 

Drain cold boiled cabbage perfect- 
ly dry, chop fine, add butter, pepper, 
and salt to taste. Press the whole 
closely into a small pudding dish, and 
bake an hour. 

Corn Omelet. 

1 cupful cold com, 

3 eggs, 

i cupful milk, 

i teaspoonful salt. 

Dash pepper, 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Chop the corn slightly. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs till thick, mix with 
the milk, salt and pepper. Add the 
corn and fold in the whites of the 
eggs beaten dry. Melt the butter in 
an omelet pan, pour in the mixture, 
and cook exactly as you would an 
omelet. 

Corn Fritters. 

1 cupful cold chopped corn, 

1 cupful milk, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 

powder. 
Yolks 2 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls flour, 
i teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful pepper. 
Whites 2 eggs. 

Beat the yolks till thick and lemon- 
colored, add the milk and seasoning, 
then the corn, flour, and baking pow- 
der. Last of all, cut in the whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Drop 
from a tablespoon into hot lard, and 
fry a delicate brown. 

Curried Vegetables. 

1 cupful cold potatoes, 

1 cupful cold carrots, 
i cupful cold turnips, 
i cupful cold peas, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 slices onion, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

I tablespoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful curry powder. 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 

Dash celery salt. 



1 cupful milk, 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Cut the potatoes, carrots, and tur- 
nips into tiny cubes; add the peas. 
Pour over them the onion cooked in 
the butter for five minutes. Add 
flour, and seasonings, and pour on 
slowly the scalded milk. Sprinlde 
with finely chopped parsley. 

Spinach Rechauffe (French recipe). 

2 cupfuls cold spinach, 
4 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 
I cupful chicken stock, 

1 teaspoonful powdered sugar. 
Salt and pepper. 

Grated nutmeg. 
Grated lemon rind. 

Chop the spinach fine, reheat in a 
double boiler with the butter, in 
which has been melted the flour and 
chicken stock. Add the seasonings. 

Baked-Bean Barebit. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
i teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful paprika, 

1 cupful cold baked beans, 
i cupful milk, 

2 drops Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce, 

§ cupfuls chopped cheese. 

Press the beans through the potato 
rlcer and sprinkle the pulp with the 
seasonings. Put in an omelet pan with 
the butter, and when hot add the 
milk and cheese. Stir till thoroughly 
blended. Serve on slices of toast laid 
on very hot plates. 

Onion Sonffle. 

i cupful stale bread crumbs, 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 

1 cupful cold boiled onions. 

Yolk 1 egg, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

i teaspoonful salt 

Paprika, 

1 cupful milk. 

Whites 2 eggs. 



LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES 



159 



Chop the onions fine. Make a 
white sauce from the butter, flour, 
seasonings, and milk. When it boils, 
add to it the bread crumbs, parsley, 
chopped onion, and beaten yolk of 
the egg. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth and fold them into 
the onion mixture. Pour into a but- 
tered dish and bake fifteen minutes 
in a moderate oven. Serve with 
cream sauce. 

Scalloped Tomatoes and Onions. 
IJ cupfuls cold boiled onions, 
6 tomatoes. 
Pepper and salt, 
1 cupful buttered crumbs. 

Cut the tomatoes into thin slices 
and chop the onions fine. Butter a 
baking pan. Put in a layer of sliced 
tomatoes, season with pepper and 
salt. Cover with a sprinkling of but- 
tered crumbs, cover with sliced 
onions, then a layer of tomatoes. Make 
the last layer onion slices covered lib- 
erally with crumbs. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven three quarters of an 
hour. 

Uonday's Sonp. 

i can tomatoes, 

6 boiled or baked potatoes, 

i onion, 

1 stalk celery. 

Few celery tops. 

Pepper and salt, 

1 tablespoonful vinegar, 

1 cupful hot milk. 

Pinch soda. 

Boil vegetables together until they 
are soft. Put through a potato ricer, 
add pepper, salt, and soda. Just be- 
fore serving pour in the milk with a 
pinch of soda dissolved in it. Sift 
over the top dry bread crumbs. 

Green-Pea Sonp. 

Take what remains of the peas 
cooked for dinner the day before and 



a little of any kind of soup left, and 
boil together until the peas are soft. 
If you have a heaping cupful peas 
you can make soup enough for four 
or five persons. Put in salt and pep- 
per and onion. The quantity of each 
must depend upon the character of 
the soup which you have put in. Put 
a tablespoonful butter into a frying 
pan, and when it is hot, put a hand- 
ful stale bread cut in dice. Stir un- 
til they are quite brown. Strain the 
soup, rubbing the peas through a 
colander. Sprinkle in a little chopped 
parsley and a few celery tops cut up 
fine. Put the fried bread in the tu- 
reen, and pour in the soup. 

Savory Cauliflower (Dutch recipe). 

Steam cold boiled cauliflower imtil 
it is hot, and pour over it a sauce 
made as follows: Boil 1 cupful thin 
cream, thicken by adding 1 teaspoon- 
ful flour, stirred smooth in a little 
cold cream; let the mixture boll up, 
stirring constantly, add a pinch salt, 
a little pepper, and » small quantity 
nutmeg. 

Cauliflower an Fromage (French 

recipe) . 

Put cold boiled cauliflower in a 
bake dish, and turn over it enough 
drawn butter to moisten; grate 
cheese over the top, cover with sifted 
bread crumbs, put small bits of but- 
ter on top, and bake until light 
brown. 

Asparagus Omelet. 

Put a tablespoonful butter in a 
frying pan; when melted, pour in a 
eggs which have been beaten jUst 
enough to mix the yolks with the 
whites; stir constantly; when the 
mixture thickens, take from the fire, 
season with salt and pepper, and stir 
into it what you have left of cold 
boiled asparagus cut into small bits. 



CHAPTER XXVI 



POTATOES 



Boiled Potatoes. 

In boiling potatoes, choose tubers, 
if possible, which are of the same 
size. When this cannot be done, put 
the larger potatoes at the bottom of 
the saucepan, the small ones on top. 
Wash, pare, and put in cold water to 
prevent them from becoming discol- 
ored. During the winter, when pota- 
toes grow old and soft, soak for two 
hours before cooking. Put in boiling 
salted water and cook until soft. 
Drain and serve in a dish with 
folded napkin over them. 

Baked Fotatoes. 

Select the smoothest and most 
wholesome potatoes for baking. 
Scrub with a, vegetable brush and lay- 
in a baking pan. They will require 
forty minutes in a hot oven. Serve 
immediately or they are apt to be- 
come soggy. 

Hashed Fotatoes. 

Take boiled potatoes and put them 
through a potato ricer, add butter, 
milk, pepper, and salt, and beat with 
a fork until fluffy. Heap lightly in a 
dish and, if you wish, brown them 
over the top. 

Scalloped Fotatoes. 

Cut potatoes in thin slices, put in 
layers in a baking dish sprinkled with 
pepper and salt, dredged with flour, 
and with a little butter here and 
there. Pour hot milk over it, until 
the milk can be seen through the po- 
tatoes, sprinkle with bread crumbs 
and bake in a hot oven for an hour. 

Potatoes Baked on Half Shell. 

Bake 6 or 8 good-sized potatoes; 
as soon as they are soft, cut in halves 



leo 



lengthwise, scoop out the inside, mix 
with butter, cream, pepper, and salt, 
and the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Whip the potato until 
white and fluffy, then put back into 
the skins and rake them with a fork 
until they have a rough appearance 
on top. Return to the oven, and bake 
until brown on top. 

Potato Omelet. 

Prepare mashed potatoes; put them 
in a spider in which a tablespoonful 
butter has been melted, smooth with 
a palette knife, allow them to cook a 
few minutes over a moderate fire; 
when delicately crusted underneath, 
score in the center, fold omelet fash- 
ion, then put on a hot platter. 

Potatoes a la HoUandaise (French 
recipe) . 

IJ cupfuls white stock, 

3 cupfuls potato cubes, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
i teaspoonful salt. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce, 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 

1 tablespoonful shredded parsley. 

Pare the potatoes, cut into small 
cubes, and soak for half an hour in 
cold water. Cook until almost soft in 
the white stock, drain, and add the 
lemon juice, butter, and seasonings. 
Cover the saucepan and set back on 
the stove where it will not cook for 
five minutes. Serve in a vegetable 
dish sprinkled with the parsley. 

Boasted Brown Potatoes. 

Wash and pare potatoes, soak in 
cold water, boil for seven minutes, 
then remove from the kettle and lay 
in the gravy of a roast about half an 



POTATOES 



161 



hour before the meat is to be taken 
from the oven. Baste with fat two 
or three times. Sweet potatoes may 
be cooked in the same way. 

Chamtaey Potatoes (French recipe). 
Wash and pare potatoes, then cut 
into thin flakes on a vegetable slicer, 
soak for half an hour in ice water, 
drain, and dry in a towel. In an iron 
spider fry out a couple slices salt 
pork, cook 2 slices onion delicately 
brown, lift out the onion, then put in 
•*he potatoes, having the spider more 
than half full, season with pepper 
and salt and dot over the top with 
bits of butter. Set the spider back 
on the stove where there is moderate 
heat. Cover tightly until the potatoes 
are softened and brown. Occasion- 
ally, while cooking, turn them over 
to prevent burning. 

Hongroise Potatoes (French recipe). 

1 cupful scalded milk, 
4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
3 cupfuls potato cubes, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
i teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful lemon juice. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce. 

Soak the potato cubes in ice water 
half an hour. Parboil three minutes, 
and drain. Put the butter in a spi- 
der, aind saut^ the potatoes delicately 
brown. Add the seasonings, dust on 
the flour, and pour in the hot milk; 
allow it to cook for a few minutes, 
then turn into a hot dish and sprinkle 
with shredded parsley. 

Potatoes Brabanconne (French rec- 
ipe). 

Into 2 cupfuls mashed potatoes, 
stir a tablespoonful finely chopped 
chives, 1 teaspoonful chopped pars- 
ley, a dash pepper, teaspoonful salt, 
2 teaspoonfuls butter, and a table- 
spoonful cream. Turn out on a plat- 
ter, shape into a mound, dust over it 
grated cheese and stale bread crumbs. 
Cover with bits of butter, and brown 
in the oven. 



POTATOES WHICH ARE PEIED 

Saratoga Chips. 

Pare potatoes, slice into thin shav- 
ings on a vegetable cutter, and allow 
to soak in ice water for an hour. 
Lift from the water, dry in a towel, 
fry in deep fat or oil until they curl 
and are delicately brown. Shake as 
free from fat as possible before lift- 
ing frying basket from the kettle, and 
put to drain on absorbent paper. 
Dust with salt. Be careful that the 
fat is not too hot, as the potatoes 
must cook before they brown, also 
allow the fat to reheat each time be- 
fore frying another portion of pota- 
toes. 

Prench Fried Potatoes. 

Wash and pare potatoes, cut them 
into lengthwise strips, and soak an 
hour in ice water. Drain and dry, 
then fry in hot fat. When taken 
from the kettle, shake them on a 
sheet of brown paper to absorb the 
fat, and dust with salt. Be careful 
not to cook too many potatoes at a 
time, as the fat is apt to become 
chilled and the potatoes grease- 
soaked. 

Pried Potato Balls. 

2 cupfuls hot mashed potatoes, 

J teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful celery salt. 

Dash cayenne, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 
- 1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful shredded parsley. 

Into the hot potatoes beat the but- 
ter and seasonings. Allow it to cool 
for a few minutes, then add the pars- 
ley and egg. Whip with a fork until 
thoroughly blended, roll between 
the hands into small balls, dip in 
flour, fry in hot fat, and drain on 
brown paper. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Prepare mashed potatoes as for 
fried balls, adding a little onion 
juice and a dash Mcllhenny's Ta- 



162 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



basco, make into cork-shaped cro- 
quettes, roll in flour, egg, and finely 
sifted bread crumbs. Fry delicately 
brown in hot fat, then drain and ab- 
sorb on paper. 

Kartoffelklosse , (German recipe). 
3 cupfuls mashed potatoes, 

1 cupful toasted bread crumbs, 

2 eggs. 
Dash pepper, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 

i teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Beat the bread crumbs into the 
mashed potatoes, add the seasoning 
and parsley, moisten with the yolks 
of eggs beaten thick and lemon-col- 
ored. Whip the whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth, then blend with the po- 
tato. Mold into small balls and fry 
until delicately brown dn hot fat. 
Kartoffelklosse has sometimes a tea- 
spoonful baking powder added to the 
mixture and they are boiled like 
dumplings in salted water, when they 
puff up till half as large again; then 
they are served with tomato sauce 
poured about them and a sprinkling 
of crisp, buttered bread crimibs. 



SWEET POTATOES 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

Select potatoes which are of about 
the same size; if wished, they may be 
boiled in skins and peeled before go- 
ing to the table, or pare them, and 
cook twenty minutes in salt water. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash potatoes, wipe, dry, and bake 
quickly in a hot oven. If they cannot 
be served immediately, prick with a 
fork and allow the steam to escape 
to prevent becoming soggy. 



Sweet Potato (Southern style). 

Bake medium-sized potatoes; when 
they are soft, cut in two lengthwise 
and scoop out the inside with a spoon. 
Put it through a potato ricer, have 
butter, salt, pepper, and enough thick 
cream to moisten. Whip with a fork 
until light and fluffy, refill the skins, 
heaping the potato into rough little 
motmds, and bake delicately brown. 

Sweet Potatoes in Cream (Southern 

recipe). 

When baking sweet potatoes, re- 
move a large one from the oven whUe 
still firm. When cool, pare it, and 
chop to the size of peas; season with 
salt and butter and heap lightly in a 
buttered baking dish. Pour over it 
3 or 4 tablespoonfuls cream, spread 
the top with melted butter and dust 
with powdered sugar. 

Sweet-Potato Croquettes. 

Two cupfuls mashed, boiled, 
steamed, or baked potatoes; add the 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs, and season to 
taste. When cold, form into small 
croquettes, roll in egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard to an 
amber color. Serve on a napkin. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes. 

Steam, pare, and cut in slices three 
eighths of an inch thick, lay the slices 
in a double broiler; salt, cover with 
melted butter, and broil over a slow 
fire. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes. 

Boil sweet potatoes until nearly 
cooked, then peel and cut into quar- 
ters lengthwise. Lay on a baking 
platter, sprinkle over them salt, 
brown sugar, and melted butter, add 
a few tablespoonfuls boiling water. 
Set in a hot part of the oven, and 
bake till the potatoes are covered 
with a thin brown glaze. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

LEFT-OVER POTATOES 



Studt all sorts of methods for 
making warmed-up potatoes good 
and so different that they will not 
taste alike twice. One day there may 
be a suspicion of onion about the 
dish, another the rich flavor given by 
a spoonful beef extract, a dash 
chives, parsley, cayenne, or celery, or 
they may appear au gratin with a 
delicate cheese flavor. Mashed potato 
may be warmed again or reappear in 
a dozen different ways. 

There are a few rules to remember 
in the keeping of left-over potatoes. 
Never put them hot into the refrig- 
erator. Do not allow them to stand 
in an uncovered dish. They will ac- 
quire a tough, disagreeable skin, and 
are reduced to nothing by paring. 
Use cold potatoes before they are two 
days old. In hot weather they will 
not keep more than twenty-four 
hours. The sense of smell will speed- 
ily reveal to you if they have soured. 

In hot weather use potatoes as of- 
ten as possible in a salad. In this, 
too, seek variety. There are endless 
recipes for potato salads. Do not 
make a salad of old potatoes, the 
newer they are the more satisfactory 
the salad. In Germany, potatoes for 
a salad are always boiled in their 
skins, and it is a fact that they taste 
better than when pared before cook- 
ing. The neatest method for prepar- 
ing them is to cut the potatoes into 
cubes about half an inch square or in 
tiny balls with a potato scoop. Do 
not cut them too thin or small. They 
break, and nothing looks more unin- 
viting than a mushy potato salad. 

Potatoes absorb a great deal of 
dressing, and they ought to marinate 
at least an hour before being served. 
One of the most acceptable of potato 



salads is a combination of potato and 
pickled beet with Worcestershire 
Sauce and onion juice. Another is 
made with finely sliced onions as a 
flavor, and a sprinkling of chopped 
tarragon, parsley, and chervil. A 
third has celery and chopped cabbage 
with minced pickle and a hard-boUed 
egg. Mushrooms and minced pickle 
are a favorite addition to a potato 
salad, while lettuce or celery enters 
into the make-up of others. There 
are a few things among vegetables 
that wiU combine well with potatoes. 
Cold peas are good, so are tomatoes, 
green peppers, olives, asparagus, red 
cabbage, cauliflower, capers, turnips, 
carrots, cucumbers, or string beans. 
Sometimes a relish is added to the po- 
tato salad by a few slices of salt sal- 
mon, several anchovies, or sardines. 
Sweet potatoes may be put through 
the potato ricer and converted into 
croquettes or a pudding or pie. They 
may be glazed with sugar and butter, 
warmed in cream, or make an excel- 
lent soafflii. Another way is to cut 
them in thick slices, dip in flour, egg, 
and crumbs, and fry in deep fat, or 
slice them into a fritter batter, and 
fry. 

Selmonico Potatoes. 
S cold potatoes, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 
1 cupful milk, 
i teaspoonful salt. 
Dust pepper, 
J cupfiil grated cheese. 

Cut the potatoes into fine dice, 
make a white sauce from the butter, 
flour, milk, and seasonings, and toss 
the potatoes lightly into the sauce. 
Turn into a baking dish, sprinkle with 



163 



164 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



grated cheese, and bake till light 
brown. 

Potato PufEs. 

2 cupf uls finely chopped cold po- 
tatoes, 

2 tablespoonfuls cream, 
1 egg, 

Pepper and salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Mix the potatoes thoroughly with 
the seasonings, flour, egg, and cream. 
Drop by spoonfuls in hot fat in a 
spider. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Cut cold potatoes in neat small 
slices. Scald 1 cupful milk, 1 table- 
spoonful butter, and seasoning of 
salt and pepper. Add the potato. 
Let it boil up, and serve very hot. 

lyonnaise Potatoes. 

1 onion, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
S cold potatoes. 
Pepper and salt. 

Chop the onion, and fry five min- 
utes in the butter. Into this put 5 
potatoes cut into dice, season with 
pepper and salt. Serve when brown 
and crisp. 

Browned Potato. 

Boil a pint or 3 of the tiny po- 
tatoes left in a barrel and let them 
cool. Skin and saut6 in 3 tablespoon- 
fuls clarified butter. Pepper and salt 
while in the spider. When well 
browned, put in a heated vegetable 
dish and sprinkle with chopped pars- 
ley. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

3 cupfuls cold boiled potatoes, 
IJ cupfuls white sauce. 

Cut the potatoes into fine slices, 
and heat in the white sauce. 

Chartreuse Potatoes. 

3 cupfuls cold boiled potatoes. 

Pepper and salt, 

i teaspoonful onion juice, 

J cupful flour, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

i cupful milk, 

1 egg. 



Mix the flour, salt, anfl pepper. Add 
the milk gradually and well-beaten 
egg. Cut the potatoes into quarter- 
inch slices. Sprinkle with salt, pep- 
per, and onion juice. Put together 
in pairs. Dip into the batter. Fry 
in deep fat and drain. 

Potatoes with Hard-Boiled Eggs. 
8 cold boiled potatoes, 
6 hard-boiled eggs. 
Pepper and salt, 

2 cupfuls thin white sauce, 

i cupful buttered cracker 
crumbs. 
Cut the potatoes and eggs into 
quarter-inch slices. Put a layer of 
potatoes in a buttered baking dish. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Cover 
with a layer of eggs cut in slices, 
then a layer of potatoes. Pour over 
it the white sauce. Cover with 
crumbs, and bake until brown. 

Whipped Potato. 

If you have 2 cupfuls cold mashed 
or riced potato, put a tablespoonful 
butter and 4 tablespoonfuls milk or 
cream in the double boiler, then add 
the potato. Leave the lid off. In ten 
minutes it will be hot. Beat with a 
silver fork till light and fluffy. Serve 
as ordinary mashed potato or use it 
as a border for any dish. It tastes 
like newly cooked potato. 

Suchesse Potatoes. 

3 cupfuls cold mashed potatoes, 

1 egg, 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 

Beat the yolk of the egg till very 
thick, add the cream to it, and work 
into the potatoes. Shape in small 
pyramids. Rest each one on the 
broad end in a buttered tin. Beat 
the white of the egg slightly; add to 
it a teaspoonful mUk and brush each 
cone with the mixture. Bake till 
golden brown. Serve on a hot platter 
garnished with parsley. 

Potato Croquettes. 

3 cupfuls cold mashed potatoes, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 

i cupful cream. 
Whites 2 eggs. 



LEFT-OVER POTATOES 



16S 



Salt and pepper. 
Grating nutmeg. 

Warm the potatoes, add the butter, 
. cream, well-beaten eggs, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and a, slight grating of 
nutmeg. Let the mixture cool, then 
shape, roll in egg and cracker 
crumbs, and fry. 

Potato Scones (Scotch recipe). 

Take cold mashed potatoes, moisten 
with cream, and work in sufScient 
flour, with which baking powder is 
mixed, to make a firm dough, adding 
a' pinch salt. Roll out the potato 
paste, sprinkle with dry flour, roll in 
beaten egg, again in flour, cut into 
rounds, and bake on a hot griddle 
for ten minutes ; butter while hot, and 
serve. 

Fotato-and-Tomato Salad. 

1 cupful boiled new potatoes, 
1 cupful fresh tomatoes, 

1 green pepper. 

Cut the potatoes in neat cubes, the 
tomatoes in quartered slices. Arrange 
in layers on a nest of lettuce leaves, 
sprinkle each layer with chopped 
green pepper, salt, and powdered sug- 
ar. Pour over it a French dressing. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes. 
6 cold sweet potatoes, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar. 
Pepper and salt. 

Pare the potatoes and cut in two 
lengthwise, dusting with pepper and 
salt. Melt the butter and sugar to- 
gether; dip the slices of potatoes in 
this. Arrange in a baking pan, and 
bake till they are rich brown. 

Sweet Potatoes (Cuban recipe). 
8 cold sweet potatoes, 
i cupful water, 
1 cupful brown sugar, 
1 teaspoonful butter. 

Pare cold sweet potatoes that have 
been boiled or baked. Put them in a 
sirup made from the water, sugar, 
butter, and a dust of cinnamon. Bake 
until the potatoes are covered with a 
fine, brown glaze. 



Sweet-Potato Salad. 

3 cupfuls cold sweet potatoes, 
1 cupful celery, 
6 olives, 

1 tablespoonful minced parsley. 

Cut the potatoes into small cubes- 
and the celery into inch pieces. Mix 
and finish with French dressing. 
Sprinkle with sliced olives and pars- 
ley. 

Sweet Potatoes au Gratin. 

IJ pints cold sweet potato, 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Pepper and salt, 

i cupful buttered crumbs. 

Cut the potatoes Into tiny cubes 
and arrange in a loose layer in the 
bottom of a buttered, baking dish. 
Sprinkle with pepper, salt, sugar, 
and morsels of butter. Repeat with 
another layer of potato; on top put 
a layer of buttered crumbs. Bake 
till well browned. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes. 
J cupful fat salt pork, 
S cupfuls cold boiled potatoes, 
i teaspoonful pepper, 
J teaspoonful salt. 

Try out the fat salt pork, cut in 
small cubes, remove scraps. Add the 
potatoes, finely chopped, pepper, and 
salt. Mix potatoes thoroughly with 
fat; cook three minutes, stirring con- 
stantly; brown underneath. Fold as 
an omelet, and turn on hot platter. 

Curried Potatoes. 
i cupful butter, 
1 small onion, 
3 cupfuls cold boiled potato 

cubes, 
J cupful white stock, 
J tablespoonful curry powder. 
Juice 1 lemon. 
Salt and pepper. 

Cook the butter with the onion un- 
til yellow; add the potato and cook 
until it has absorbed butter, then add 
the stock, curry powder, lemon juice, 
salt and pepper to taste. — Fannie M. 
Fabmee, 



CHAPTER XXVIII 



SALADS 



It is not so many years ago that 
salads were considered a luxury only 
to be found on the tables of the 
wealthy; to-day a wider knowledge of 
cookery has taught the housewife who 
has to set a table with a small in- 
come that there is no more economi- 
cal, wholesome dish than a well-made 
salad. She is beginning to realize, as 
the French do, that almost anything 
can be put into a salad, and that even 
cheap materials with a mayonnaise 
or a simple French dressing make a 
palatable as well as a cheap and most 
sightly dish. There are four essen- 
tials to a good salad; everything that 
goes into it must be ice cold, the 
green vegetable used must be per- 
fectly clean and crisp, the ingredients 
of a mayonnaise must be properly 
proportioned and thoroughly blended 
and the salad materials should be 
well mixed just before the dish is 
served. If these rules are followed, a 
simple head of lettuce with a plain 
French dressing is a perfect dish. 
No nicer way can be found to serve 
a vegetable salad than to bring the 
materials to the table crisp, fresh, and 
green, and dress it at the time it is 
to be served. For this purpose a 
large salad bowl, accompanied by a 
wooden knife and fork, and a small 
tray containing a cruet of oil and 
vinegar with pepper and salt, are a 
necessity. 

For nearly every salad, lettuce is 
used as a base. If a whole head is 
not required at once, it may be kept 
fresh for several days. As soon as it 
comes from the market, sprinkle it 
and put it away tightly covered in the 
refrigerator. A good receptacle to 
keep for lettuce is a S-povmd lard 



pail with a tight lid. When required, 
clip off with shears the ragged, with- 
ered ends of the outside leaves, for 
often the portion nearest the stem is 
good enough to put into the base of 
the salad, to eke out quantity even if 
it is not to be eaten. Separate the 
rest of the leaves, wash thoroughly, 
and leave them for fifteen minutes to 
crisp in ice-cold water. Look over 
each leaf carefully in search of dirt 
or any of the insects that are to be 
found clinging to green stuff. Dry by 
shaking lightly in a wire basket, see- 
ing that none of the leaves are bruised 
or broken. 

Cold cooked vegetables or any left- 
over that is to be utilized in a salad, 
such as string beans, potatoes, or 
peas, are best if marinated for an 
hour or two before being used in a 
French dressing, leaving them in a 
cold place. If the salad is to be 
Macedoine, make a blend of various 
vegetables, marinate each one by it- 
self, and only put together before 
sending to the table. Meat that is to 
go in a salad is much improved by 
standing for a short time in French 
dressing before using. Fish should 
be flaked or cut in neat cubes. 

There is a strong prejudice among 
many people against oil. This is 
owing largely to the fact that some- 
times one may have tasted a mayon- 
naise made of strong rancid oil. If 
you appreciate a salad, it pays to be- 
come a judge of good oil. Our Cali- 
fornia oils are now of the finest qual- 
ity and are sold at a more moderate 
price than Italian oils. Good oil has 
a fresh, pleasant odor and a pale- 
green tinge. For people who really 
find the taste of oil obnoxious, there 



166 



SALADS 



167 



are various recipes for a boiled dress- 
ing in wliich butter takes the place of 
oil and makes very good salad. A 
cook can make a blend of boiled 
dressing with a tablespoonful oil 
mayonnaise in which it is almost im- 
possible to detect any taste of oil. 
An excellent way is to make a pint of 
each dressing (if a salad comes to 
the table once each day, as it should) 
and keep them in the refrigerator 
tightly corked. Sometimes a few ta- 
blespoonfuls cream, whipped stiff, add 
a, certain deliciousness to a mayon- 
naise that nothing else can give. It is 
especially nice where sour apples or 
celery are blended. Do not use " any 
old vinegar " in a salad ; the best - is 
none too fine; a colorless white-wine 
vinegar is required for any sort of 
mayonnaise. 

During the summer, when all sorts 
of fresh green vegetables are abun- 
dant, it is a good plan while cooking 
what is to be used for dinner to dou- 
ble the amount needed and have 
something left for the next day's sal- 
ad. This applies to such vegetables 
as green peas, string beans, cauli- 
flower, turnips, carrots, new pota- 
toes, spinach, asparagus, artichokes, 
beets, okra, or Brussels sprouts. In 
winter there need be no dearth of 
salads, for we have constantly- with 
us cabbage,' celery, and many of the 
boiled vegetables, as well as apples. 

Every salad must be gently han- 
dled. It cannot be stirred as one 
would do when cooking a dish nor 
should it be molded or pattied. To 
break lettuce leaves makes them not 
only unsightly, but renders them 
tough. Pour the dressing over what 
ingredients are to be served in salad 
fashion, and toss with two forks till 
each particle is coated with mayon- 
naise or a French dressing, still not 
made mussy or broken. A variety of 
flavorings is a boon to the housewife 
who has not a great number of ma- 
terials within her reach. Day by 
day even a plain potato or lettuce 
salad may be made a different dish 
by the use of some small addition as 
a flavor, such as chives or tiny pickled 



onions strewn over it, or make a dif- 
ference in the seasoning, a mere hint 
of garlic one day, tarragon vinegar 
the next, or mint which can bemadded 
to a salad or two. The cook can 
make very cheaply for herself a num- 
ber of flavored vinegars which will 
serve for a long time. To obtain any 
flavor, put the herb desired in a bot- 
tle, cover with white-wine vinegar. 




a, Mortar andPesUe; t>, Double Boiler ; c,Whiak 
for Beating Eggs; d. Ice-cream Mold ; e, Po- 
tato Masher; f. Handled Casserole, Individual 
Sine. 



cork, and set tbe bottle in cold water, 
bringing it to a boil. Tarragon, cher- 
vil, nasturtium, cucumber, sweet ba- 
sil, chives, onion, celery, summer sav- 
ory, garlic, or peppers can be used in 
this way. 

Oil Mayonnaise. 
Yolk 1 egg, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 teaspoonful powdered sugar, 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 
1 cupful olive oil, 
1 teaspoonful mustard, 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce. 

Rub a bowl with the cut side of an 
onion, set in a pan of ice water, put 
in the dry ingredients and stir them 
together, then mix to a paste with a 
teaspoonful viijegar. Blend with the 
yolk of egg, stirring till perfectly 
smooth. Now, begin to put in the oil, 
a few drops at a time, beating con- 
stantly with a Dover egg beater. Al- 
ternate the oil with a little vinegar 
and lemon juice, until all ingredients 
have been used. When finished, the 



168 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



mayonnaise ought to be like a tliick 
jelly. 

DBESSING OB SATTCES FOB SALADS 

French Dressing. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar, 
4 tablespoonfuls olive oil, 
J teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 

Put the salt and pepper in the 
salad bowl, or in a small bowl if the 
sauce is to be served separately. Add 
a little oil, stir well, then gradu- 
ally add the remainder of the oil, 
beating constantly. Last of all stir 
in the vinegar, which should be di- 
luted with water if very strong. This 
dressing may be modified to suit dif- 
ferent vegetables. 

Cooked Salad Dressing. 

2 eggs, 

J cupful vinegar, 

1 cupful milk, 

1 tablespoonful oil or butter, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful pepper. 

Put the oil and dry ingredients in 
a bowl and mix well. Add the eggs, 
and beat for five minutes. Now add 
the milk, place the bowl in a pan of 
boiling water, and cook till the sauce 
thickens like thin cream. Stir the 
sauce constantly while cooking, and 
bottle what you do not require for 
immediate use. If butter is substi- 
tuted for oil, add it just before tak- 
ing the dressing from the fire. 

Sour-Cream Dressing. 

1 cupful sour cream, 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 

1 scant tablespoonful sugar, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful pepper, 

1 teaspoonful mixed mustard. 

Beat the cream with an egg beater 
until thick. Mix the other ingre- 
dients and gradually add the cream, 
beating all the while. 



Catsup Cream Dressing. 

1 cupful cream, 

i cupful tomato catsup, 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil, 
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
1 tablespoonful sugar, 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix the dry ingredients, oil, salt, 
and vinegar together, then add the 
catsup and cream, beating it in grad- 
ually. 

Cream Dressing. 

i tablespoonful salt, 

i tablespoonful mustard, 

I tablespoonful sugar, 

1 egg slightly beaten, 

2J tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
j cupful sugar, 
i cupful vinegar. 

Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar 
very slowly. Cook over boiling wa- 
ter, stirring until the mixture thick- 
ens, strain, and cool. Add before us- 
ing it an equal quantity of whipped 
cream. 

Chicken-Salad Dressing. 

J cupful rich chicken broth, 
i cupful vinegar. 
Yolks S eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls mixed mustard, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful pepper. 
Few grains cayenne, 
i cupful thick cream, 
J cupful melted butter. 

Reduce stock in which a fowl has 
been cooked to J cupful. Add vine- 
gar, yolks of eggs slightly beaten, 
mustard, salt, pepper, and cayenne. 
Cook over boiling water, stirring con- 
stantly until mixture thickens. Strain, 
add creara and melted butter, then 
cool. — Fannie M. Farmer. 

Oil Dressing, Boiled. 

IJ teaspoonfuls mustard, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce, 
2 tablespoonfuls oil. 



SALADS 



16S 



J cupful vinegar diluted with 
cold water to make J cupful, 
2 eggs slightly beaten. 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg and 
oil gradually, stirring constantly un- 
til thoroughly blended; then add di- 
luted vinegar. Cook over boiling wa- 
ter until mixture thickens. 



Tomato Ifayonnalse. 
3 solid tomatoes. 
Yolks 2 hard-boiled eggs. 
Yolk 1 raw egg, 
i cupful oil. 

2 drops Mcllhenny's Tabasco 
Sauce, 

3 drops onion juice. 

Peel the tomatoes; cut them in 
halves and press out all the seeds, re- 
taining the solid portion. Chop and 
press through a sieve. Mash the yolks 
of the hard-boiled eggs until very 
fine; add the yolk of the raw egg; 
when thoroughly mixed, add the oil 
a little at a time. When tMck and 
smooth, add the dry pulp of the to- 
mato (which has been draining while 
you are making the dressing). Add 
the tabasco and onion juice. This is 
a delicious dressing for cold beef or 
mutton. 



Sidney Smith's Salad Dressing. 
1 boiled or baked potato. 
Yolk 2 raw eggs, 
J teaspoonful salt. 
Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce, 
6 tablespoonfuls oil, 
3 teaspoonfuls tarragon vinegar, 
1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Press the freshly boiled or baked 
potato through a potato ricer; rub 
it down with a palette knife until 
perfectly smooth; drop in the yolk of 
1 egg; rub thoroughly; then add the 
second yolk and rub again. Add the 
salt and pepper, oil, vinegar, and 
lemon juice. This dressing is im- 
proved by a suspicion of garlic or 
onion, and is excellent with celery or 
tomatoes. 



SAIADS 
Water Cress and Striilg-Bean Salad. 
Arrange water cress on a flat dish; 
in the middle put a small heap of 
cream-cheese balls; around these lay 
in regular piles cooked and seasoned 
string beans; cover with French 
dressing. 

Cucumber-and-Tomato Salad in Cu- 
cumber's. 

Cut lengthwise large cucumbers; 
scoQp out the centers in good-sized 
bits; mix with equal parts of peeled 
tomatoes cut into small bits, and re- 
fill the cucumber shells. Set on let- 
tuce, and cover with French dressing. 

Crab Salad. 

1 dozen crabs, 
1 cupful mayonnaise, 
3 heads lettuce, 
, 1 green pepper. 

Put the crabs in warm water, add 
a tablespoonful salt, stand the kettle 
over a brisk fire, and boil thirty min- 
utes. When cold, pick out the meat 
and put it away until wanted. Wash 
and dry the lettuce carefully. Stand 
on the ice until wanted. When ready 
to serve, mix the crab meat, pepper 
cut into fine strips, and mayonnaise 
lightly together. Garnish the dish 
with lettuce leaves, place the mixture 
in the center, and serve. 

Camp Salad. 

Prepare a mixture of salad vege- 
tables, or the following; lettuce torn 
into bits, dandelion nicely bleached, 
chives, and parsley minced fine, tiny 
cooked string beans or peas, a small 
onion or a bit of leek, and a tomato 
or a bit of celery. Cut 6 or 8 thin 
slices of bacon into bits and let them 
cook in a spider until crisp. Add 1 
tablespoonful tarragon vinegar; pour 
the hot fat with the bacon over the 
salad mixture, and serve at once. 

Celery, Apple, and Nut Salad. 

Clean the celery and lettuce and 
set it to crisp in a wet napkin on the 
ice. When ready to serve, cut the 



1^0 



MRS. CURtlS'S COOKBOOK 



celery in thin, crescent-shaped pieces; 
cut the apples in eighths, remove 
core, skin and slice crosswise in thin 
pieces, then crumble the pecans or 
walnuts. Take equal parts celery 
and apple and i part nuts. Mix with 
mayonnaise to hold together. Ar- 
range the mixture on a platter in a 
mold with lettuce around the edge, 
cover with mayonnaise and garnish 
with thin rings or crescents of red- 
skinned apples and celery tips. 

Ensalada (Mexican recipe). 

Slice 2 Spanish onions in thin rings, 
cut 2 fresh chilis across in rings, re- 
moving the seeds, and slice 3 ripe, 
firm tomatoes. Put these in alter- 
nate layers in a shallow bowl, sprin- 
kle parsley and bread crumbs over 
the top, and cover with a dressing 
made of 3 parts oil to 1 vinegar, 
seasoned with salt. Serve ice cold. — 
May E. Sherwood. 

Summer Salad. 

3 stalks celery, 

3 seeded green peppers, 

3 tomatoes, 

2 tablespoon fuls cream, 

2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise. 

Vinegar, 

Salt and pepper. 

Finely slice the celery and peppers, 
add the tomatoes skinned and cut in 
quarters. Beat the cream until stiff, 
add to the mayonnaise, with vinegar, 
salt, and pepper to taste. Mix with 
the vegetables, and arrange on a bed 
of escarole. 

No-name Salad. 

Make a mayonnaise, a small amount 
of aspic, and a French dressing. 
Flake any cold cooked fish, either of 
one kind or mixed, and lay for an 
hour in a deep plate sprinkled with 
oil and vinegar. Line a plain, flat- 
topped mold with liquid aspic by 
pouring in a small quantity and tip- 
ping the mold in a bed of cracked 
ice till every part is thickly coated; 
then set on ice. Ornament the bot- 
tom (which will be the top) with a 



round of truffles in the center and a 
dozen shrimps radiating from it, dec- 
orate the sides with a ring of shrimps 
alternating with slices of truffle; set 
these with a little more aspic. Add 
to the mayonnaise its own bulk of 
the jelly and put in the mold a layer 
of the mixture, then a layer of fish 
just as you lift it from the marinade; 
strew with capers, add another layer 
of sauce, then fish, till the mold is 
full; garnish with cauliflower and 
water cress seasoned with French 
dressing. — Anne Wahnee. 

Salmon Salad. 

Place on a bed of lettuce the con- 
tents of i can salmon, freed from oil 
and bones, and flaked. Pour over 
the fish boiled salad dressing or 
mayonnaise, then garnish with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs and lemon. 

Garcia Salad (Spanish recipe). 

Cut celery, apples, and fresh to- 
matoes in thin strips about two 
inches long; serve on lettuce leaves 
with French dressing. A slice of 
truffle on the top adds to the appear- 
ance and flavor. — Good Housekeep- 



Savarian Salad. 

Shred very fine 2 heads lettuce, 
chop 3 onions fine, and cut 1 cold 
beet into cubes. Make a layer of the 
lettuce, toss together the beets and 
onion and pile on lettuce. Marinate 
with a French dressing, pour over 
the top an oil mayonnaise, garnish 
with sliced olives. 

Potato-and-Pepper Salad. 

3 large cold potatoes, 

1 green pepper, 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 

2 tablespoonfuls ice water, 

J teaspoonful powdered sugar. 

Dash pepper, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls oil. 

Cut the potatoes into half-inch 
dice. Remove the seeds from the 
pepper and chop fine. Mix the vine- 



SALADS 



171 



gar, water, sugar, salt, and pepper. 
Put a layer of potatoes into the salad 
dish, then a layer of chopped pepper, 
and sprinkle over it a tablespoonful 
oil. Put in another layer of potatoes 
and peppers, add the other table- 
spoonful oil, and pour over all the 
vinegar. Set in the refrigerator for 
fifteen minutes to marinate. — Makia 

WiLLETT HOWABD. 

Chicken Molded with Mayonnaise. 

Stew a 4-pound chicken in 2 quarts 
cold water, add 4 slices carrot, 1 
onion stuck with 8 cloves, 2 stalks 
celery, bit bay leaf, J teaspoonful 
peppercorn, 1 teaspoonful salt. Bring 
quickly to the boil till tender. Re- 
move meat from bones and chop 
(there should be 2J cupfuls. Re- 
duce stock to 1 cupful, cool, soak IJ 
teaspoonfuls granulated gelatin in 2 
teaspoonfuls cold water and dissolve 
in stock which has been reheated; add 
to meat, season with salt, pepper, cel- 
ery salt, and onion juice. Paclr in 
buttered J-pound baking-powder tins 
and dull. Remove from molds, cut 
in rounds, put on lettuce, and gar- 
nish with mayonnaise. — Faunie M. 
Faameb. 

Tomato-and-Pea Salad. 

Scoop out skinned tomatoes, fill 
with cold boiled peas and English 
walnuts marinated with French dress- 
ing or mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Pare cucumbers and cut crosswise 
in quarter-inch slices. Let them stand 
in ice water an hour, then take a 
sharp knife and pare round and 
round the slices very thinly, just as an 
apple would be pared, until there is 
a long, thin-curled strip. Put these 
strips on ice to harden, then put each 
one on a single lettuce leaf and serve 
on smaU plates. Put a spoonful 
mayonnaise on each plate and pass 
prepared horse-radish, vinegar, and 
oil with it. Brown bread cut in long 
narrow strips and spread with soft 
cheese is delicious with this salad. 
Most soft cheeses must be thinned 



with cream to make them spread 
easily. 

Grand Union Cabbage. 

Select a small, heavy cabbage and 
roll back the outside leaves. Cut' out 
the center, leaving the shell entire. 
With a sharp knife slice the heart of 
the cabbage thin and soak in ice wa- 
ter till crisp. Drain and dry between 
towels. Add 2 green peppers cut in 
fine strips and mix with a French 
dressing. Pour over the cabbage and 
peppers, then refill the cabbage bowl. 
— Stella A. DowNiifG. 

English-Walnut-and-Chicken Salad. 

For this salad there will be re- 
quired 24 English walnuts, onion, 
parsley, chicken liquor, celery, cold 
cooked chicken, French dressing, and 
mayonnaise. Take 1 pint chicken and 
1 pint celery cut into dice, and par- 
boil the English walnuts long enough 
to remove the skins. In boiling the 
nuts, add a slice onion, a sprig pars- 
ley, and a Jittle chicken liquor, then 
drain, remove the brown skins, and 
mix them with the celery and chicken. 
Pour over this a cupful French dress- 
ing and put in the refrigerator for 
an hour or more. At serving time 
stir i pint mayonnaise into this. 
Make shells of crisp lettuce leaves, 
put a tablespoonful salad into each 
and a teaspoonful mayonnaise on top, 
and serve. — Ella E. Woodbridge. 

OUa Fodrida Salad (a Spanish 
salad). 
2 small apples, 
2 medium-sized onions, 
6 tomatoes, 
2 cold boiled potatoes, 

1 tablespoonful vinegar, 

2 tablespoonfuls oil. 
Little powdered sugar, 
Salt and pepper, 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce. 

Peel the apples and onions, and 
chop fine. Peel and chop 3 tomatoes, 
mixing the pulp with the apples and 
onions. Rub a few bread crumbs on 



172 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



a clove garlic, and add them to the 
salad, also the potatoes, which have 
been sliced and chopped. Add to the' 
salad the vinegar, oil, sugar, salt, 
pepper, and tabasco. Mix thoroughly 
together, and let stand about an 
hour. Cut the remainder of the to- 
matoes in slices, also the eggs, ar- 
range on top of the salad, then mask 
with mayonnaise. 

Egg Salad. 

Boil the eggs hard, remove the 
shells, cut in halves lengthwise, and 
take out the yolks. Mash the yolks, 
using a silver fork; season with 
minced chowchow; add a little mus- 
tard sauce, a dash Mcllhenny's Ta- 
basco Sauce, melted butter, salt and 
pepper, and, if desired, minced 
olives. Return to the whites of eggs, 
arrange on a bed of lettuce dr cress, 
dress with French dressing or mayon- 
naise. If no olives have been used in 
filling the eggs, a few pimolas scat- 
tered over the salad add to its deco- 
ration. 



1 tablespoonful cream. 

Salt, 

Cayenne, 

1 teaspoonful capers, 

1 pimento cut in strips. 

Mash the cheese, add the olives, 
capers, and pimentoes; moisten with 
cream, season with salt and cayenne, 
form into small balls. Marinate with 
a French dressing. Serve on shredded 
lettuce, and garnish with pimentoes 
cut in strips. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

Stand a firm white cauliflower in 
salt water for half an hour, then cook 
it in boiling water imtil tender but 
not quite done. Drain, cool, cut into 
sprigs and arrange neatly in a salad 
bowl lined with lettuce leaves. Mash 
the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs and 
cut the whites into petals; arrange 
these like daisies over the cauliflower, 
and pour over a plain French dress- 
ing. Serve very cold. — ^Mabt Fostee 

SXISEB. 



Jardiniere Salad. 

Cut into fine strips new turnips, 
carrots, and potatoes, and put them 
with a few green peas into a sauce- 
pan to fry lightly in a little butter. 
Cover with chicken stock and cook 
till quite tender. Drain and put in a 
salad dish. Pour over them French 
dressing. Set aside for an hour; in 
serving, coat with mayonnaise. 

Beet Salad in Cups. 

Boil the largest beets you can find 
with their skins on; peel them as soon 
as the beets are done. Cut a slice off 
the top and scoop out the center to 
form a cup. Chop celery fine, cut 
cuciunbers in dice, and use a portion 
of the chopped beet. Mix and fill the 
beet cups. Put a spoonful mayon- 
naise on top. Place the cups on let- 
tuce leaves, and serve ice cold. 

Neufchatel Salad. 

2 rolls Neufchatel cheese, 
2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped 
olives. 



Salad in Boats. 

Select 6 fresh cucumbers all the 
same size. Pare, cut in halves length- 
wise, scoop out the centers, and lay in 
water till wanted. Dry and fill with 
a mixture of sweetbread and peas, 
dressed with mayonnaise. Set on a 
green lettuce leaf or individual 
plates. — ^Anke Wabnee. 

Spinach Salad on Ton^e. 

Pick over, wash, and cook J peck 
spinach. Drain and chop fine. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and lemon 
juice, and add 1 tablespoonful melted 
butter. Butter small tin molds 
slightly and pack solidly with the 
mixture. Chill, remove from mold, 
and arrange on thin slices of cold 
boiled tongue, cut in circular pieces. 
Garnish base of each with parsley, 
and serve on top of each sauce tar- 
tare. — Stella A. Downino. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

1 cupful mayonnaise, 
1 pair sweetbreads. 



SALADS 



173 



1 cupful celeiy, 

1 head lettuce. 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water 
for twenty minutes, then parboil in 
salted water. Cool and cut in slices, 
mix with 1 cupful celery cut in small 
pieces, cover with French dressing, 
and chill for half an hour. Serve in 
nests made of the inner leaves of let- 
tuce, and garnish with mayonnaise. 

Tomato Telly with Celery Salad. 

2 cups tomatoes, 
1 slice onion, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 
i teaspoonful t)epper, 

3 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- 
atin, 

J cupful cold water. 

Cook the tomatoes with the onion, 
salt, and pepper twenty minutes, then 
strain; add the gelatin, which has 
been soaked in cold water, and stir 
until dissolved; pour into a border 
mold which has been previously 
dipped in cold water. Serve with a 
garnish of white lettuce, and fill the 
center with celery salad. 

Potato Salad (German recipe). 

Cut cold boiled, rather waxy, pota- 
toes into moderately thick slices, put 
in a bowl, and add to every pound a 
tablespoonful vinegar, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls oil, i teaspoonful salt, i tea- 
spoonful pepper, and a little minced 
parsley. Slices of beet root and 
onions are a great improvement to 
the salad. 

Ox-Cheek Salad (German recipe). 

The bones having been removed, the 
ox cheek is rubbed thoroughly with 
salt, and put into a deep dish in salt 
for a week. It Is then boiled in 
plenty of water with vegetables and 
a sprig parsley for five hours. The 
liquor poured from this makes an ex- 
cellent soup. The meat is cut into 
dice and put into a salad bowl, with 
new potatoes also diced, and the same 
quantity of beet root and celeriac 
blanched for five or six minutes in 



salt water. Mix the vegetables, sea- 
son with salad dressing and a spoon- 
ful whole capers. 

Salad of Shad Roe and Cucumbers. 
Cover a pair of shad roes, a sliced 
onion, and a bay leaf with boiling wa- 
ter to which has been added lemon 
juice or vinegar, and cook for twen- 
ty minutes. Drain and dry the roes, 
cover them with a tablespoonful lem- 
on juice, 2 tablespoonfuls oil, and a 
dash pepper and salt. When cold, 
cut into small cubes (if they are not 
too tender). Rub a salad bowl with 
a clove garlic. Cut a thoroughly 
chilled cucumber in dice. Put a bed 
of lettuce into the bowl. Arrange the 
cucumber and lettuce, and over that 
the roe, well drained from the marin- 
ade. Garnish with a few delicate tips 
of lettuce and whole cucumber 
slices. Serve very cold. 

Aed-Apple Salad. 

Select large red apples of uniform 
size, scoop into cups, and put in cold 
water in which there is a little lemon 
juice until time to fill them. Mix the 
chopped apple with celery, grape- 
fruit carpels, and mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and fill the apples. Garnish 
with Maraschino cherries and broken 
walnuts, and lay on leaves of lettuce. 
Serve with wafers spread with cream 
cheese. 

Fotato-Salad Balls. 

Add to left-over mashed potatoes 
3 or 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar, the 
same of oil, and 2 teaspoonfuls grated 
onion. Make into little balls by us- 
ing butter-ball paddles. These may 
be served with croquettes or patties. 
Or they may be placed on a leaf of 
lettuce as a salad course with a 
spoonful mayonnaise. 

Pepper-and-Chicken Salad. 

1 cupful tender green pepper, 

1 cupful chopped celery, 

2 cupfuls chicken, 
2 hard-boiled eggs, 
1 cucumber pickle. 
Salt and pepper. 



1^4 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Chop the peppers fine, add the cel- 
ery and chicken, mix well; add the 
eggs, cucumber pickle, salt, and pep- 
per to taste. Set away to chill. When 
ready to serve, pour over it a rich 
mayonnaise. Garnish with parsley 
and olives. 

Salad Provengal (French recipe). 
1 cold carrot, 
1 cold turnip, 

'1 cupful cold chicken meat, 
13 mushrooms, 
i cupful asparagus tips, 
J cupful Brussels sprouts. 

Cut the carrot, turnip, and chicken 
into inch strips. Mix lightly with a 
fork. Arrange in a nest of lettuce 
leaves on a flat dish. Moisten with 
mayonnaise and mask the top with a 
few spoonfuls. Garnish with cluster 
of mushrooms, asparagus tips, and 
Brussels sprouts. 

Chiffonade Salad (French recipe). 
1 head lettuce, 
i cupful cold beets, 
J cupful cold carrots, 
i cupful cold string beans, 
1 tablespoonful chives. 

Make a nest of lettuce and cut the 
vegetables into neat cubes. Chop 
the chives fine, scatter them on top, 
marinate with a French dressing. 

Beet-and-Cahbage Salad 
i head raw cabbage, 
6 cold beets. 
Pepper and salt. 

Shred the cabbage finely, soak for 
half an hour in iced water, drain 
thoroughly. Mix with the beets cut 
into fine cubes. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, and minced onion. Serve 
with French dressing. 

SIoscow Salad (Russian recipe). 
1 cupful cold red beets, 

1 cupful cold potatoes, 

2 onions, 

1 cupful celery, 
1 head chicory, 
1 teaspoonful capers. 



1 teaspoonful pickled nasturtium 

seeds, 
6 olives. 

Cut the beets and potatoes into 
fine cubes, slice the onions fine, cut 
the celery into inch-length pieces, 
tear the chicory into fine strips, cut 
the olives into thin slices. Toss light- 
ly together, add the capers and nas- 
turtium seeds. Lay in lettuce leaves. 
Serve with French dressing or may- 
onnaise. Garnish with rings of hard- 
boiled eggs and sprinkle over the top 
a tablespoonful yolk of egg put 
through a potato ricer. — Helen Sas- 

MORSKY. 

Aspic Salad (Russian recipe). 
1 cupful green peas, 
i cupful cold carrots, 
1 tablespoonful capers, 

1 cupful aspic jeUy. 

Cut the carrots into tiny cubes. 
Ornament the bottom of a mold 
with the peas, carrot, and capers, and 
fix them with aspic jelly. When 
hard, fill the mold with jelly. Let 
it grow solid, then scoop out a small 
hollow with a hot spoon and fill with 
mayonnaise. 

Eed-Vegetable Salad (Russian rec- 
ipe). 

2 cupfuls cold beets, 

2 cupfuls cold boiled potatoes, 
2 cupfuls raw red cabbage, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

6 tablespoonfuls oil. 

Chop the beets and potatoes fine. 
Pour over them the red vinegar in 
which the beets have been pickled. 
Add the cabbage shredded very fine. 
Sprinkle with salt and oil. Toss to- 
gether, and stand in the refrigerator 
half an hour before serving. Just 
before serving, add i cupful French 
dressing flavored with onion juice. 

Catiliflo-wer-aad-Potato Salad. 

2 cupfuls cold potatoes, 

i cupful cold cauliflower. 

Cut the potato into fine cubes and 
mince the cauliflower coarsely. Toss 



SALADS 



17S 



lightly, and serve with a French 
dressing. Garnish with slices of cu- 
cumber. 

Summer Salad. 
6 tomatoes, 
3 cucumbers, 
1 onion, 

3 green peppers, 
3 apples. 

Slice the tomatoes, cucumbers, and 
apples; chop the onion and peppers 
fine. Blend with a French dressing. 
— May Ibwiit. 

Baked-Bean Salad. 

3 cupfuls cold baked beans, 

3 ripe tomatoes, 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 

6 tablespoonfuls oil, 

J teaspoonful mustard. 

Dash Mcllhenny's Tabasco Sauce, 

i teaspoonful onion juice. 

Make a dressing from the vinegar, 
oil, and seasonings. Heap the beans 
on lettuce, garnish with sliced toma- 
toes and over all pour the dressing. 

Tomato Salad (German recipe). 

Peel medium-sized tomatoes, re- 
move a thin slice from the top of 
each, take out the seeds and some of 
the pulp, sprinkle inside with salt, in- 
vert, and let stand thirty minutes. 
Shred i head small cabbage. Let 
stand two hours in 1 quart cold wa- 
ter to which 3 tablespoonfuls salt 



have been added. Cook slowly for 
-thirty minutes i cupful each cold 
water and vinegar, a bit bay leaf, i 
teaspoonful peppercorns, J teaspoon- 
ful mustard seed, and 6 cloves. 
Strain, and pour over the cabbage 
drained from salt water. Let stand 
for two hours, again drain, and refill 
the tomatoes. 

Tomato-Pineapple Salad. 

Peel medium-sized tomatoes, re- 
move a thin slice from the top of 
each, take out the seeds and some of 
the pulp. Sprinkle inside with salt, 
invert, and let stand thirty minutes. 
Fill the tomatoes with fresh pineap- 
ple cut in small cubes and English 
walnut meats, using § pineapple and 
J nut meats, mixed with mayonnaise. 
Garnish with mayonnaise halves of 
nut meats and slices cut from the tops 
of tomatoes. Serve on a bed of let- 
tuce leaves. 

Shaddock Salad. 

2 green peppers, 
1 head romaine. 

Pulp 1 large grape fruit, 

3 tomatoes. 

Cook the peppers in boiling water; 
cool, and shred. Shred the romaine; 
remove the pulp from the grape 
fruit; peel the tomatoes and cut in 
quarters lengthwise. Arrange in a 
salad bowl, and pour over French 
dressing. 



CHAPTER XXIX 



PUDDINGS MADE FROM STALE BREAD AND CAKE 



The variety of puddings into which 
stale bread enters is endless. It be- 
gins with the old-fashioned, economi- 
cal pandowdy and ends with the 
queen of puddings, rich in jam and 
lovely in merinque. For puddings, 
use only stale bread or crumbs, re- 
jecting crusts. Do not add the oven- 
dried crumbs, or you will have a pud- 
ding as tough as a door mat. Left- 
overs of fruit, fresh berries, peaches, 
plums, gooseberries, apples, prunes, 
apricots, almost anything can enrich 
ji bread puduing. A cupful canned 
or stewed fruit or a few spoonfuls 
jam or marmalade give a morsel of 
delicious flavoring. The good cook 
uses common sense and the material 
she has at hand. If the recipe calls 
for red raspberries and she has noth- 
ing but dried apples, she can season 
them with spices, and the dessert will 
be a success. The base of any bread 
pudding light as a souffli and large 
enough for a family of 4 consists of 
1 cupful stale-bread crumbs, 2 cup- 
fuls milk, and 1 egg. This may be 
enriched by almonds, chocolate, nut 
meats, raisins, currants, and peel or 
fruit of any description. 

Stale cake, especially sponge cake 
or lady's fingers, may be converted 
into delicious puddings. 

Where the pudding is to be steamed 
or baked, cut the cake In fingers or 
break it into crumbs. If the pudding 
is to be soaked with wine, have a cus- 
tard, fruit juice, or cream poured 
over it, after cutting it in slices. Re- 
ject icing; it generally makes a pud- 
ding sweeter than is desirable. A 
good plain pudding is made by put- 
ting slices of stale cake in a steamer 
and, when moist, serving with a 
spoonful strawberry or marmalade 



176 



sauce. It may be covered when cold 
with hot stewed berries and served 
with cream. Stale sponge cake 
serves as a foundation for charlotte 
russe and cabinet pudding, or, if 
steamed, may be covered with straw- 
berries and whipped cream, when it 
makes an excellent imitation of straw- 
berry shortcake. 

Bread-Plum Fndding. 
1 cupful suet, 
1 cupful raisins, 
1 cupful currants, 
J cupful citron and candied 

orange peel, 
1 cupful sugar, 

3 cupfuls stale-bread crumbs, 

4 eggs, 

J cupful milk, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

J teaspoonful each allspice, cloves, 

and nutmeg. 
Grated rind 1 lemon. 

Chop the suet fljie. Seed tlie rai- 
sins. Slice the citron and orange 
peel, mix with the currants, sugar, 
and bread crumbs, moisten with eggs 
well beaten, and milk, then add the 
seasonings. Pour into a buttered 
mold. Steam four hours, and serve 
with hard sauce. 

Orange Pudding. 

IJ cupfuls stale-bread crumbs, 
1 cupful cold water, 
1 cupful sugar, 

1 cupful orange juice. 
Juice J lemon, 

2 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
J teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
i teaspoonful orange extract. 



STALE BREAD AND CAKE PUDDINGS 



177 



Soak the crumbs in water twenty 
minutes, tlien add tlie sugar, orange, 
and lemon juice, the yolks of eggs 
slightly beaten, the butter and salt. 
Beat till thoroughly mixed, pour in a 
buttered dish, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven till the pudding is firm. Al- 
low it to cool slightly and cover with 




a, Saratoga Chip Kettle; 6, Tea Kettle Steamer. 

a meringue made from the whites of 
the eggs, sugar, and orange flavor- 
ing. Brown delicately, and serve hot 
or cold. 

Walnut Pudding. 

Meats from 12 English walnuts, 

1 cupful stale brown-bread 
crumbs, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler, 
and add to it the crumbs and chopped 
walnut meats. Allow the mixture 
to simmer gently five minutes, then 
take from the firC. When cool, stir 
in the yolks of eggs beaten with the 
sugar. Add vanilla and the whites 
of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour 
in a buttered mold, and bake thirty 
minutes. Serve hot with vanilla 
sauce or hard sauce. — Maeoahet 
Bailey. 

lemon-lleringue Pudding. 

2 cupfuls stale-bread crumbs, 
2 cupfuls cold water, 

1 lemon. 



S cupful sugar, 

3 eggs, 

J cupful chopped suet, 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

Soak the crumbs in water thirty 
minutes, then add juice and grated 
rind of the lemon. Beat the yolks of 
eggs till thick and lemon-colored, add 
sugar and suet, and mix thoroughly. 
Add the other ingredients. Bake an 
hour. Beat the whites of eggs to a 
dry froth and make a meringue with 
3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 
Heap lightly on top of the pudding, 
dust with powdered sugar, and brown 
delicately. Serve with a liquid sauce. 

Prune-and-Bread Pudding. 
2 cupfuls prunes, 
8 slices buttered bread, 
2 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
2 cupfuls milk. 
Nutmeg. 

Soak the prunes over night, and in 
the morning remove the stones. Cover 
the bottom of a buttered baking dish 
with a layer of buttered bread cut in 
v/ide fingers. Cover with prunes and 
a dust of nutmeg and sugar. Put in 
another layer of buttered bread, then 
prunes with sugar and nutmeg. Let 
the crust be bread with the buttered 
side up. Beat the eggs well, add the 
milk, and pour over the pudding. 
Bake an hour, covering the pudding 
with a plate for half an hour, then 
leaving it uncovered to crust. Serve 
with hard sauce or lemon sauce. 

Apple-Custard Pudding. 

2 cupfuls pared and quartered 

apples, 
1 cupful stale-bread crumbs, 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
1 tablespoon ful flour, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 egg, 
^ lemon, 
J cupful water. 

Put the apples with waiter in a 
granite saucepan and cook till the 
fruit mashes easily. Remove from the 
fire, add sugar, butter, and the grated 



178 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



rind and juice of a lemon. Mix the 
flour with bread crumbs and stir into 
the mixture. Beat the egg till light, 
and add it last. Turn into a buttered 
dish, and bake in a moderate oven 
three quarters of an hour. Serve hot 
with hard sauce. 

7ig Pudding. 

1 cupful chopped figs, 

J cupful finely chopped suet, 

1 cupful chopped apple, 
i cupful brown sugar, 

i cupful stale-bread crumbs, 
i cupful milk, 

2 eggs, 

I cupful flour. 

To the suet add the sugar, apple, 
and figs. Pour the milk over the 
bread crumbs, and add the yolKs of 
eggs well beaten. Combine the mix- 
tures, add the flour and the whites 
of eggs beaten until stiff. Turn into 
a greased pudding mold and steam 
in a covered steamer four hours. 

Orange-Marmalade Pudding. 

1 cupful stale-bread crumbs, 
1 cupful orange marmalade, 
i cupful chopped suet, 
1 teaspoon ful Calumet baking 
powder, 

1 cupful flour, 
i cupful sugar, 
IJ cupfuls milk. 

Toss the dry ingredients together. 
Add the suet and marmalade, then 
stir in the milk and egg. Beat five 
minutes. Put into a buttered mold, 
cover tightly, and steam two hours. 

Scalloped Apples. 

6 large tart apples, 

3 cupfuls stale-bread crumbs, 

2 tablespoonfuls molasses, 
i cupful hot water. 

Pare the apples and cut in gener- 
ous slices. Into a buttered baking 
dish put a layer of bread crumbs, 
then a layer of sliced apples, and a 
top layer of crumbs. Add the hot 
water to the molasses and pour it 



over the pudding. Bake twenty min- 
utes. 

Bread Pudding with Raspberry 
Sauce. 
2 cupfuls stale-bread crumbs, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

3 eggs. 
Salt. 

Soak the crumbs half an hour in 
milk. Beat the yolks of the eggs till 
thick and lemon-colored and add to 
the soaked crumbs with a pinch salt. 
Cut in the whites of eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, and bake, setting in a pan 
of hot water in a moderate oven, 
forty minutes. Put no sugar in this 
pudding; the sauce supplies all the 
necessary sweetness. 

Raspberry Sauce. 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
IJ tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 cupful red raspberries. 
Juice 1 lemon. 

Cream the sugar and butter to- 
gether. Mash the fruit, and beat in 
with the sugar and butter. Add the 
lemon juice, and beat till very light 
and frothy. 

Apple Dowdy. 

i loaf stale brown bread, 
8 large tart apples, 
J teaspoonful cinnamon, 
J cupful dark-brown sugar, 
J cupful cold water, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Cut the bread in thin slices and 
pare off the crusts. Butter each 
slice. Lay them into a buttered bak- 
ing dish till it is neatly lined. Inside 
put the apples, pared and sliced, sug- 
ar, cinnamon, dust of salt, and pour 
water over all. Cover the top with 
bread, buttered side up. Bake slowly 
an hour. Serve hot with liquid or 
hard sauce. 

Chocolate Souffle. 

1 cupful stale-bread crumbs, 

2 cupfuls scalded milk, 

1 square Runkel's Chocolate, 



STALE BREAD AND CAKE PUDDINGS 



179 



J cupful sugar, 

1 egg. 
Dash salt, 

J teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Pour the milk over the crumhs and 
allow them to swell half an hour. 
Melt the chocolate in a bowl in the 
mouth of a boiling kettle, add to the 
sugar, and scrape it into the soaked 
bread, beating well. Add the salt, 
vanilla, and egg slightly beaten. 
Turn into a buttered dish and bake 
three quarters of an hour. Serve hot. 

Jam Pudding. 
Stale bread, 

2 cupfuls milk, 
i cupful sugar. 
Salt, 

1 egg- 
Cut stale bread in slices, remove 

crusts, spread with butter or cream, 
and quince or plum jeUy; put to- 
gether like sandwiches. Place in a 
baking dish in layers. Pour over a 
custard of milk, egg, sugar, and a 
little salt. Bake, covered, half an 
hour; then uncover, and brown. Serve 
warm or cold, with cream. 

Caramel Pudding. 

2 cupfuls bread crumbs, 
IJ cupfuls milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 eggs, 

1 cupful sugar, 

1 tablespoonful caramel. 

Mix together, and add whites of 
eggs beaten with tablespoonful sugar 
just before pouring into mold. Steam 
three hours in a buttered mold. 
Serve with apple jelly and caramel 
sauce. 

Apricot Pudding. 

1 cupful stale-bread crumbs, 
1 cupful fresh or preserved apri- 
cots cut in dice, 
i cupful sugar, 
i cupful butter, 
i cupful water, 
J cupful apricot sirup. 



Butter a baking dish; cover the 
bottom with layer of crumbs, over it 
place the fruit; cover with crumbs, 
dot with bits of butter, then apri- 
cots, and so on, until the dish is full. 
The upper layer should be of crumbs, 
covered thickly with bits of butter. 
Pour over a portion of the liquid, or 
add it in mixing the pudding; place 
in a pan of water, and bake half an 
hour; take from the water, and finish 
baking fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Serve with cream or apricot sauce. 

Brown-Bread Pudding. 

1 cupful brown-bread crumbs, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

3 eggs, 

3 tablespoonfuls maple sugar. 

Soak the crumbs in i cupful milk 
fifteen minutes; make a custard of 
the remainder of the milk, eggs, and 
sugar; pour it hot over the crumbs; 
beat the whites of 3 eggs, with 1 ta- 
blespoonful sugar and 1 or 2 table- 
spoonfuls thick cream; stir lightly 
into the custard. Bake half an hour 
in a moderate oven; eat with cream. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

2 cupfuls scalded milk, 

3 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 

1 tablespoonful sugar, 

J cupful grated cocoanut, 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

Cut stale bread in slices, spread 
with butter and honey, and cover with 
grated cocoanut. Line a baking dish 
with the sandwiches. Pour over a 
custard made with milk, eggs, corn- 
starch, sugar, grated cocoanut, and 
a little salt. Bake in a moderate 
pven half or three quarters of an 
hour. Cover with a meringue of the 
whites of 3 eggs and powdered sugar. 
Brown delicately. Serve with cream. 

Chocolate Whips. 

3 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
1 tablespoonful Runkel's Choco- 
late grated. 



180 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



1 tablespoonful sugar, 

1 tablespoonful hot water, 

2 cupfuls milk. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and sug- 
ar till light. Dissolve sugar and 
chocolate in hot water; when dis- 
solved, add slowly milk heated to 
boiling; pour this mixture over the 
beaten eggs and sugar, and cook in 
a double boiler, stirring constantly 
until it thickens. When cool, flavor 
with Mcllhenny's Vanilla ahd place 
on ice. When ready to serve, half fill 
small pimch glasses with the custard 
and whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored, over it. 

Sponge Cake a la Chantilly. 
1 stale sponge cake, 

3 cupfuls fresh or canned fruit, 

1 cupful cream, 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
i teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

From the top of a stale sponge 
cake cut a thin slice. Remove the in- 
side, leaving a wall one and a half 
inches thick. Into this put any fresh 
fruit sprinkled with sugar, or canned 
fruit from which the bulk of the juice 
has been drained. Beat the cream 
till thick. Add the sugar and vanil- 
la, and pour over the cake just be- 
fore serving. Save the inside of the 
loaf; it may be utilized in various 
ways. 

Cocoanut Sponge Pudding. 

2 cupfuls scalded milk, 

IJ cupfuls sponge-cake crumbs, 

1 cupful grated cocoanut, 

1 cupful sugar. 

Grating nutmeg, 

1 tablespoonful rose water, 

3 eggs. 

Pour the hot milk over the sponge- 
cake crumbs, sugar, beaten yolks of 
eggs, cocoanut. Allow it to stand half 
an hour. Add the nutmeg, rose wa- 
ter, and whites of eggs beaten to a 
dry froth. Bake three quarters of an 
hour in a buttered mold. Serve with 
wine sauce. — Maugabet Bailey. 



Uarmalade Sponge Cake. 
1 stale sponge cake, 
4 dry lady's fingers, 
1 cupful powdered sugar, 
J cupful butter, 
I cupful orange marmalade. 

Cut a stale sponge cake in two, in 
layer style, and set it in a steamer ten 
minutes. Make a hard sauce by 
creaming the butter gradually, add- 
ing the sugar, and beating it till 
smooth and white. Add the marma- 
lade at the last. Dry the lady's fin- 
gers in a moderate oven till light 
brown, then roll into crumbs with a 
rolling-pin. Spread the hard sauce 
on a layer of the cake, cover with the 
other half of the cake, spread with tlie 
remainder of the sauce, and scatter 
thickly with sifted lady's finger 
crumbs. Serve immediately. Almost 
any kind of jam can be used instead 
of orange marmalade. If it is a very 
rich, sweet preserve, use J cupful less 
sugar. The sauce is also excellent if 
made with J cupful orange juice 
beaten into the hard sauce, 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, and J teaspoon- 
ful orange extract. 

Cream in a Crust. 

Make a sponge cake, and bake in 
a solid loaf, either round or oblong. 
When cool, take out the center, leav- 
ing the crust an inch thick on the 
sides and bottom. Make an icing of 3 
ounces chocolate, a cupful sugar, i 
cupful water, and Mcllhenny's Va- 
nilla to flavor. Melt the chocolate 
and add to it slowly the sugar and 
water boiled to a sirup which will 
spin a thread. Flavor, p.nd brush 
with it at once the entire cake, inside 
and out, until it is well coated. Just 
before serving, fill with rich, sweet 
cream (about a cupful), whipped, 
sweetened, and flavored. 

Pineapple Pudding. 
Slices of stale cake, 
1 pineapple, 
J cupful sugar, 
1 cupful cold water. 



STALE BREAD AND CAKE PUDDINGS 



181 



Line a buttered pudding dish with 
slices of stale cake. Pare and slice 
the pineapple thinly. Cover each 
layer of cake with the fruit, sprink- 
ling it with sugar; cover with cake, 
then pineapple. Make the top layer 
cake, and over all pour the water. 
Cover, and bake slowly two hours. 
Eat hot with hard sauce. 

Cabinet Pudding:. 
3 cupfuls cake, 

1 cupful milk, 

2 eggs. 
Salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

} cupful raisins, nut meats, and 
citron. 

Butter a quart melon mold and 
scatter over it a few currants, raisins, 
nut meats, or tiny bits of citron. Fill 
the mold almost to the top with bro- 
ken bits of cake, and sprinkle a little 
fruit through it if the pieces are of 
plain cake. Beat 2 eggs, stir in 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls sugar, a dash salt, and 
the milk. Pour this custard over the 
cake in the mold, turning in a little 
at a time to allow the cake to absorb 
the liquid, until all the custard is used. 
Put on cover and place the mold in 
a kettle of boiling water, not allowing 
the water to come quite to the top of 
the mold. Place a lid on the kettle 
and let it boil an hour. Serve the 
pudding hot, with wine or fruit sauce. 

Crumb Pudding. 
3 eggs, 

i cupful sugar, 
i cupful soft bread crumbs, 
i cupful farina, 
i cupful broken nut meats, 
i cupful butter, 
J cupful powdered sugar, 
2 tablespoonfuls milk, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Beat the yolks of eggs until light 
and lemon-colored. Gradually add 
sugar, bread crumbs, and farina. Mix 
perfectly, fold in the whites of eggs 
beaten stiff, and nut meats. Pour 
into 2 layer-cake pans which have 



been buttered and floured. Bake half 
an hour in a slow oven. When slight- 
ly cooled, put the layers together 
with a creamy sauce made as follows: 
Cream J cupful butter, add gradually 
i cupful powdered sugar and 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls milk, add drop by drop. 
Flavor with 1 teaspoonful Mcllhenpy's 
Vanilla. Serve hot. — Katherikk A. 
French. 

Peach Crumb Pudding. 

1 pint stale-b-"ad crumbs, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 

2 eggs, 

J cupful sugar. 

On a pint of stale-bread crumbs 
pour boiling water and stir in melted 
butter. After standing till thor- 
oughly soaked, add eggs and sugar. 
On the bottom of a buttered dish put 
a thin layer of this batter, over it a 
layer of sliced peaches, and so on, 
dredging each layer of peaches with 
sugar, till the dish is full, having 
batter at the top. About an hour 
in a moderate oven will be required 
for the baking. Serve with sweet- 
ened cream. 

Suet Cherry Roly-Poly. 
S ounces suet, 
i pound flour, 
J teaspoonful salt. 

Remove the fiber and skin from 
suet, chop fine, add flour and salt, 
mix well. Add sufficient cold water 
to make it stick, and roll out on a 
well-floured board. Cover with pitted 
cherries, dust with sugar, and roll 
quickly; tie in a well-floured cloth, 
leaving room for it to swell. Place 
in a kettle of boiling water and keep 
it boiling steadily two hours, or it 
may be steamed two hours and a half. 
Serve hot with any sweet sauce, or 
sweetened cream. 

Marmalade Pudding. 

i pound bread crumbs, 

i pound brown sugar, 

i pound suet, 

4 eggs, 

1 small jar orange marmalade. 



182 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Mix together, put in a mold with 
tight-fitting cover, and boil three 
hours. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

Line pudding dish with buttered 
slices of bread. Fill with huckle- 
berries, sprinkle over sugar and the 
grated rind and juice of a lemon. 
Place on top of buttered bread. Set 
in a pan of water in a hot oven ; cover 
the pudding with a plate, and bake 
one and a half hours. When the pud- 
ding is done, cover with a meringue 
made of the whites of 2 eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth and 2 tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar. Return to the oven 
to brown lightly, and serve hot. 

Plain Plum Pudding. 
4 cupfuls flour, 

1 pound currants, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
1 pound raisins, 

J pound candied lemon peel 

chopped fine, 
1 pound suet chopped fine, 

1 teaspoonf ul Calumet baking 
powder. 

Nutmeg and cinnamon. 

Sift the flour, baking powder, 
spices, and salt; add other ingre- 
dients. When well mixed, add suffi- 
cient cold water or milk to make a 
batter j ust thick enough to spoon into 
the mold. Leave room for it to rise. 
Cover closely, and boil six hours. 

Fluff Pudding. 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatin, 
2 cupfuls cream, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

3 eggs, 

§ cupful sugar. 

Soak the gelatin in cold water half 
an hour. Scald the milk, and dissolve 
the gelatin in it. Beat the yolks and 
sugar together, stir into the boiling 
milk, and cook two minutes. Take 
from the fire, add the vanilla, and 
turn into a bowl to cool. Stand the 



bowl in a pan of cracked ice, and stir 
constantly until it thickens; then add 
the whipped cream; turn into a mold 
and set away to harden. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Snow Pudding. 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatin, 

1 cupful sugar, 

2 eggs, 

Juice 2 lemons, 
2 cupfuls milk, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
1 cupful boiling water. 

Let the gelatin soak half an hour 
in cold water, pour over it boiling 
water, add sugar, and stir till dis- 
solved; add the lemon juice, and 
strain; set in ice water. When 
cold, whip with an egg beater until 
white as snow; beat the whites of 
eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in. 
Dip a mold in cold water, pour the 
pudding into it, and set in a cold 
place till it hardens. 

Sauce for Pudding. 

Scald the milk; beat the yolks of 
eggs and a J cupful sugar together, 
stir into the boiling milk. Cook two 
minutes, add vanilla, and pour out to 
cool. Dish the pudding with the 
sauce poured about it. 

Bananas and Tapioca. 

J cupful minute tapioca, 
1 pint boiling water, 
§ cupful sugar, 
J teaspoonful salt. 
Juice 2 lemons. 
Whites 2 eggs, 
5 bananas. 
Whipped cream. 

Mix the sugar and tapioca, stir into 
the boiling water and salt; cook, stir- 
ring occasionally, until the tapioca is 
transparent, then add the lemon juice 
and fold in the whites of eggs. When 
the eggs are evenly distributed 
throughout the mixture, fold in the 
pulp of the bananas cut in thin slices. 
Serve with cream, whipped or plain. 



STALE BREAD AND CAKE PUDDINGS 



183 



Orange Tapioca Pluff. 

4 cupful minute tapioca, 
1 cupful sugar, 

1 pint water, 
3 oranges, 

2 eggs. 

Boil tapioca, sugar, and water in 
a double boiler tiU clear, stirring of- 
ten. Add the orange juice about three 
minutes before removing from the 
stove. When cool and beginning to 
"jell," stir into it the well-beaten 
whites of eggs. Serve with a soft 
custard. 

Raspberry Jelly. 

3 tablespoonfuls minute tapioca, 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

3 cupfuls hot water. 

Juice 1 lemon, 

1 cupful raspberry juice. 

Cook tapioca until clear with sugar 
in boiling water, add the lemon juice 
and raspberry juice. When begin- 
ning to "jell," beat smooth with a 
spoon. 

Danish Fndding. 

3 cupfuls hot water, 

J cupful minute tapioca, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

i cupful sugar, 

1 tumbler currant jelly. 

Cook the tapioca and water fifteen 
minutes. Add sugar, salt, and cur- 
rant jelly. Stir until jelly is dis- 
solved. Pour into glass dish and 
keep on ice. Serve very cold with 
sugar and cream. In summer 1 pint 
ripe strawberries used in place of 
jelly makes a pleasing change. 

Grape Blancmange. 

1 cupful grape juice, 
3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 
Whites 3 eggs, 
i cupful sugar. 
Yolks 3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
1 pint milk. 



Put the grape juice and 1 cupful 
water in a double boiler; when boil- 
ing, stir in the cornstarch previously 
dissolved in cold water; cook five 
minutes, stirring till smooth and 
thick; remove from fire, fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites and sugar. Make 
a custard of the yolks of eggs, sugar 
to sweeten, a teaspoonful vanilla and 
milk, and serve with the grape blanc- 
mange. Turn it from the mold into 
a glass dish, and pour the custard 
around it. 

Winter Truit Pudding. 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatin, 
6 oranges, 

1 can pineapple, 

3 bananas. 
Sugar to taste. 

Slice the bananas, cut the pine- 
apple in small pieces, and spoon the 
pulp from the oranges. Drain off 
the juice; in part of this soak the 
gelatin five minutes, stand in hot 
water until dissolved, add to the rest 
of the juice, and pour over the fruit 
arranged in a salad bowl. Set on ice 
until jellied, then sprinkle with grated 
cocoanut. 

Coffee Jelly. 

3 tablespoonfuls gelatin, 
i cupful cold water, 
3 cupfuls coffee, 
f cupful sugar. 

Soak the gelatin in cold v/ater five 
minutes and dissolve in the hot cof- 
fee; add the sugar, stir until dis- 
solved, and turn into a mold. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Cocoanut Cream Tapioca. 

1 quart hot milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls minute tapioca, 

3 tablespoonfuls cocoanut, 

1 cupful sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 
Yolks 3 eggs. 

Boil fifteen minutes in a double 
boiler, stirring frequently, the milk, 
tapioca, cocoanut, and sugar. Add 



184 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



the beaten yolks of eggs and remove 
at once from the stove. Cover with 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
with powdered sugar, and brown in a 
quick oven. 

Indian Tapioca Pudding. 

2 tahlespoonfuls minute tapioca, 
1 quart milk, 

3 tahlespoonfuls cornmeal, 
i cupful molasses, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 
Nutmeg to taste, 

1 egg. 

1 cupful cold milk. 

Cook tapioca in milk ten minutes. 
While boiling, stir in cornmeal wet 
with a little milk, molasses, butter, 
bait, cinnamon, nutmeg, and egg. 
Pour in a dish, add cold milk, and 
bake two hours. 

Coffee Tapioca. 

3 cupfuls coffee infusion, 
J cupful minute tapioca, 
J cupful sugar. 
Salt, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Cook tapioca in coffee fifteen min- 
utes with sugar and salt. Flavor 
with vanilla, and serve cold with 
cream and sugar. 

Apple Tapioca. 
6 tart apples, 
1 cupful sugar. 
Salt, 

i cupful minute tapioca, 
1 quart water. 

Pare and quarter apples. Place in 
dish and pour over sugar and salt. 
Cook tapioca in double boiler in a 
quart water with pinch salt fifteen 
minutes. Pour this over the apples. 
Cover the dish, and bake half an 
hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Bothe Griitze (German recipe). 
i cupful minute tapioca, 
J cupful sugar, 



J teaspoonful salt, 
IJ cupfuls hot water, 
3 cupfuls rhubarb. 

Put tapioca in double boiler with 
sugar, salt, and hot water. Add rhu- 
barb that has been washed and cut in 
small pieces, without peeling. Cook 
till the rhubarb is tender. Mash with 
a fork, and pour, while hot, into a 
cold, wet earthen or granite mold. 
Keep in a cold place a few, hours, 
turn out, and serve with cream. 
This may be molded in individual 
cups. 

Hot Chocolate Pudding. 

3 cupfuls stale-bread crumbs, 

3 cupfuls milk scalded, 
IJ ounces chocolate, 

4 cupful sugar, 
1 egg. 

Dash salt, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can YaniUa. 

Pour the hot milk, in which the 
chocolate has been melted, over the 
bread crumbs, add to it sugar and 
salt. Beat the yolk of egg till thick 
and lemon-colored, stir it in, add the 
vanilla, last of all the white of egg 
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the 
mixture into buttered custard cups, 
set in a pan of boiling water, then in 
a moderate oven bake about half an 
hour. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

Chocolate Tapioca. 

J cupful minute tapioca, 
i cupful sugar, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
3 cupfuls milk, 
1 ounce chocolate, 
i teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Soak the tapioca over night, scald 
the milk in a double boiler, add the 
tapioca, sugar, and melted chocolate. 
Cook half an hour, stirring frequent- 
ly. When taken from the fire, add 
the vanilla, and pour into a mold. 
Serve the pudding ice cold, with 
whipped cream or chilled custard. 



STALE BREAD AND CAKE PUDDINGS 



185 



Baked Chocolate Custard. 
3 cupfuls milk, 

1 ounce chocolate, 

2 eggs, 

i cupful sugar. 
Dash salt, 

J teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

Melt the chocolate in a double boil- 
er. Pour the milk in and let it come 
to the scalding point. Pour over the 
slightly beaten eggs and the sugar 
and salt, strain into a buttered mold 
or custard cups; set them in a pan 
of hot water and bake in a moderate 
oven until a knife can be put into 
the middle of the custard and come 
out clean. Serve ice cold. 

Chocolate Spanish Cream. 

1 tablespoonful granulated gela- 
tin, 

3 cupfuls milk. 
Whites 3 eggs. 
Yolks 3 eggs, 

i cupful sugar. 
Dash salt, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
li squares chocolate. 

Melt the chocolate in a double 
boiler, add the sugar, and pour over 
it the scalded milk; beat till perfectly 
blended, then pour over the beaten 
egg yolks and back into the boiler, 
cooking till it thickens like a cus- 
tard. Remove from the stove, add 
the salt, vanilla, and whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into in- 
dividual molds which have been 
dipped in cold water, and chill. Serve 
with a garnish of whipped cream. 

Chocolate Charlotte. 

1 tablespoonful granulated gela- 
tin, 
i cupful cold water, 
J cupful scalded cream, 
IJ squares chocolate, 
3 tablespoonfuls hot water, 
§ cupful sugar. 
Whip 3 cupfuls cream. 



1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

6 lady's fingers. 

Melt the chocolate in a double 
boiler, add half the sugar, dilute with, 
boiling water, and put in the soaked 
gelatin. Stir till dissolved, add the 
scalded cream, and pour into a bowl; 
set in a pan of ice water and stir till 
it begins to thicken. Fold in the 
whip from the cream. Separate the 
lady's fingers and place them around 
the inside of a mold, crust side out. 
Turn in the chocolate mixture, and 
set it on ice. When very cold, turn 
out on a platter and garnish with 
whipped cream. 

Chocolate Blancmange. 

2 cupfuls scalded milk, 

5 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
J cupful sugar. 

Dash salt, 

J cupful cold milk, 

IJ squares chocolate, 

3 tablespoonfuls hot water, > 
Whites 3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Mix the cornstarch, sugar, and salt 
in the cold milk, pour it into the 
scalded milk in a double boiler. Cook 
ten minutes, stirring constantly till it 
thickens, add the chocolate melted in 
the hot water, beat until smooth, add 
the whites of the eggs beaten stiff 
and vanilla, pour into a mold, and 
chill. Serve with whipped cream. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

6 eggs, 

1 cupful sugar, 

i teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

J pound Runkel's sweet chocolate 
grated, 

1 cupful almonds chopped fine 
without blanching, 

1 cupful sifted bread crumbs, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 
powder. 

Beat until light and thick the yolks 
of eggs, sugar, vanilla, chocolate, al- 



186 



MRS. CUilTIS'S COOKBOOK 



monds, bread crumbs, whites of eggs, 
and baking powder. Butter a pud- 
ding form, turn into it the mixture, 
and bake in a moderate oven thirty 
to forty minutes. Serve with mer- 
ingue sauce. To make meringue 
sauce, boil together J cupful sugar 
and i cupful water until the mixture 
forms a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water, then turn it slowly over 
the whites of 2 eggs. Beat well, and 




a, Covered Baking Dish ; b, Small Covered Cas- 
serole ; c, Shallow Baking Dish ; d. Clay Cas- 
serole ; e. Individual Ramequin. 

flavor with vanilla. Turn out the 
pudding, and pile the sauce around 
its base, completely encircling it, and 
decorate, if desired, with chocolate 
candies. 

Charlotte Busse. 

1 quart thin cream, 

I cupful powdered sugar, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

12 lady's fingers, 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatin. 

Soak the gelatin in cold water half 
an hour. Beat the cream, and drain 
off the whip on a sieve. Line a mold 
with lady's fingers. Pour the cream 
in a basin and set it in a pan of ice 
water. Add to the soaked gelatin 
enough boiling water to dissolve it. 
Add the sugar carefully to the cream, 
then the vanilla, and last strain in the 
gelatin. Commence to stir imme- 
diately; stir from the sides and bot- 
tom of the basin until it begins to 
thicken, then pour into molds, and 
set on ice to harden. 



Poor Uan's Fudding:. 

2 cupfuls milk, 

4 tablespoonfuls rice, 
i cupful brown sugar. 
Dash salt, 

i teaspoonful cinnamon, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Wash the rice, add milk, sugar, 
butter, and seasoning. Bake several 
hours, stirring frequently till it is 
moist and brown. 

Cottage Pudding. 
J cupful butter, 
1 cupful sugar, 

1 egg, 

2 J cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Cream the butter, add sugar grad- 
ually, and the egg well beaten; mix 
and sift flour, baking powder, and 
salt; add alternately with milk to 
first mixture; turn into gem pans, 
bake thirty minutes. Serve with va- 
nilla sauce. 

Steamed Apple Pudding. 

2 cupfuls flour, 

4 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

I cupful milk, 

4 apples cut in eighths. 

Mix and sift the ingredients; rub 
in the butter, add milk gradually, 
toss on a floured board, pat and roll 
out, place apples on middle of dough, 
and sprinkle with sugar mixed with a 
dash of nutmeg and salt. Wrap the 
dough around the apples and lift 
into buttered molds. Cover and 
steam an hour and a, half, and serve 
with vanilla sauce. 

Snowballs. 

"i cupful butter, 

1 cupful sugar, 

i Cupful milk, 

2 J cupfiJs flour, 

3J teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder. 
Whites 3 eggs. 



STALE BREAD AND CAKE PUDDINGS 



187 



Cream the butter, add sugar grad- 
ually, then the milk and flour mixed 
and sifted with baking powder; last 
the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Steam thirty-five minutes in 
buttered cups; serve with strawberry 
hard sauce. 

English Plum Pudding. 
IJ cupfuls flour, 
IJ cupfuls stale-bread crumbs, 
I pound raisins, 
I poimd currants, 
f pound suet, 
li cupfuls sugar, 
1 cupful molasses. 



3 ounces candied orange peel, 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg, 

1 teaspoonful mace, 

6 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add 
the eggs well beaten, and stir ten 
minutes. Turn into a floured pud- 
ding cloth or mold. If the cloth is 
used, tie securely, leaving some space 
to allow the pudding to swell, and 
plunge into a kettle of boiling water. 
Cook five hours. Keep the pudding 
immersed in water during the entire 
cooking. Serve with hard sauce. 



CHAPTER XXX 



PUDDING SAUCES 



{Hot Sauces) 

Chocolate Sance. 
1 cupful water, 
J cupful sugar, 
1 stick cinnamon, 
1 square Runkel's Chocolate, 
J cupful milk, 
IJ tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 
Dash salt, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Cook together the water, sugar, and 
cinnamon, strain, add the chocolate 
Vhich has been dissolved in hot milk, 
thicken with cornstarch, wet in a lit- 
tle water. Add the salt and beat till 
creamy. After taking off the fire, 
add the vanilla and serve hot. This 
is a very nice sauce to use with a. hot 
plain pudding of any kind or with 
vanilla ice cream frozen hard. 

I'oamy Sauce. 

J cupful powdered sugar, 
3 whites eggs, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

1 cupful boiling water. 

Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth, add the powdered sugar, flav- 
oring, and water, stir carefully, and 
serve very hot. 

Orange Sauce. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Yolks 4 eggs, 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
J cupful thick cream, 

J cupful orange juice. 
Grated rind 1 orange. 



Cream the butter and whip the sug- 
ar into it, put in a double boiler, add 
the yolks of eggs well beaten with the 
cream, stir constantly till it is like a 
thick custard, then take from the fire, 
and blend in orange juice and rind. 

Ituit Sauce. 

J cupful sugar, 
1 cupful boiling water, 
1 tablespoonful arrowroot, 
J can any preserved fruit. 

Boil sugar and water together, add 
the fruit, which may be anything 
you happen to have — strawberries, 
peaches, apricots, raspberries (red), 
or quinces will make a nice sauce. 
Cook in the sirup a few minutes, then 
press the pulp through a potato ricer, 
put back on the fire in a saucepan; 
when boiling, thicken with the arrow- 
root dissolved in cold water, beat till 
thick and creamy. This sauce may 
be served hot with any hot pudding, 
or when thoroughly chilled it is nice 
with cold rice or vanilla ice cream. 



Hard Sauce. 

J cupful butter, 

1 cupful powdered sugar. 

Little nutmeg. 

Beat butter well, stir In slowly sug- 
ar, and beat to a cream. Pile on a 
plate, and grate over a little nutmeg. 
Keep cool. 

Strawberry Sauce. 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

IJ cupfuls powdered sugar. 

White 1 egg, 

1 pint mashed strawberries. 



188 



PUDDING SAUCES 



189 



Beat butter to a cream. Add grad- 
ually sugar and the whites of eggs. 
Beat till very light, and just before 
serving add strawberries. 

Soft Custard. '' 

S cupfuls scalded milk, 
Yolks 4 eggs, 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
J teaspoonful salt. 

Cook over hot fire till it will mask 
the spoon, strain, cool, and flavor. 
Some puddings are improved by hav- 
ing the sugar browned as for cara- 
mel sauce. 

maple Sauce. 

i pound maple sugar, 

4 cupful water. 
Whites 3 eggs, 

i cupful thick cream, 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Boil water and sugar till it will 
spin. Whisk boiling hot into the 
beaten whites of eggs, add cream and 
lemon juice. 

Creme d'Amande Sauce (French rec- 
ipe). 
3 cupfuls sweet cream, 

2 ounces sweet almond, 

2 drops extract bitter almond, 
i cupful powdered sugar, 

1 teaspoonful rose water. 

Chop almonds which have been 
blanched and browned in the oven, 
pound them very fine. Add sugar, 
almonds, and rose water to the cream. 
Beat until the sauce is very light. 

Aigre Siouz (French recipe). 

3 cupfuls sour cream. 

Juice and grated rind 1 lemon. 
Sugar to taste. 

Beat hard and long until the sauce 
is very light. 

Currant-Jelly Sauce. 

i cupful currant jelly. 
Whites 3 eggs, 
i cupful powdered sugar, 
i cupful thick cream. 



Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth, add sugar by degrees, and beat 
well. Soften the jelly by heating in 
a bowl set in hot water. When soft 
enough to drop from a spoon, beat it 
into the eggs and sugar. Add the 
cream. Stir in 3 tablespoonfuls jelly 
cut in dice, and serve. 

Lemon Sauce, 

1 cupful sugar, 

J cupful water. 

Rind and juice 3 lemons. 

Yolks 3 eggs. 

Boil the water, sugar, juice, and 
rind of lemons all together ten min- 
utes. Beat the yolks of eggs. Strain 
the sirup, stir the eggs into it, set the 
saucepan in boiling water, and beat 
rapidly until thick and smooth; re- 
move from the water, and beat five 
minutes. 

Orange Sauce. 

1 cupful sugar, 
1 cupful water, 
' i teaspoonful cornstarch, 
I cupful orange juice. 
Juice 1 lemon, 
1 cupful orange pulp. 

Make a sirup of sugar and water, 
and thicken with cornstarch. Take 
from the fire, cool, add orange juice, 
juice of lemon, and orange pulp. 
Serve ice cold. 

Vanilla Sauce, 

1 cupful sugar, 
1 cupful water, 
1 apple. 

Pinch cinnamon, 

J teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
i teaspoonful arrowroot, 
1 cupful whipped cream. 

Mix the sugar and water, and put 
over the fire. Peel and core the ap- 
ple, slice, cut into dice, and put at 
once in the hot sirup. Simmer gen- 
tly until soft. Take out, thicken the 
sirup with arrowroot, cook five min- 
utes, strain, add whipped cream. 



190 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



{Cold Sauces) 

Egg Sauce. 

3 eggs. 

1 cupful sugar, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Separate the eggs and beat the 
yolks till thick and lemon-colored, 
adding the sugar gradually. Whip 
the eggs to a stiff froth, blend with 
the yolks, flavor with the vanilla, and 
serve ice cold. 

Whipped-Cream Sauce. 

1 cupful double cream, 
i cupful powdered sugar. 
White 1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Beat the cream till perfectly stiff, 
adding the sugar gradually. Blend 
in the white of egg beaten to a froth, 
flavor with the vanilla, and serve cold. 

Jelly Sauce. 

Yolks 3 eggs, 

i cupful powdered sugar, 

2 cupfuls hot milk, 

1 tablespoonful gelatin, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Beat the yolks of eggs till very 
thick, adding the sugar gradually, 
pour over it the milk, cook to a 
creamy custard, then add the gela- 
tin dissolved in a little cold water, 
and flavor with vamlla. 



Pistachio Sauce. 
1 cupful sugar, 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 

2 cupfuls boiling water, 
1 teaspoonful pistachio, 

J cupful chopped pistachio nuts. 

Boil the sugar and water together 
five minutes, thicken with cornstarch 
dissolved in cold water, flavor with 
pistachio, and stir in the nuts, and 
chm. If desired, this sauce may be 
served hot with a hot pudding. 

Creamy Sauce. 

1 teaspoonful butter, 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar, 
1 egg, 

J cupful thick cream, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Rub to a cream butter, sugar, and 
egg, add cream and vanilla. If it 
should separate, set it over hot water 
and stir until smooth again. Keep on 
ice till wanted. 

Flaiu Hot Sauce. 

2 cupfuls water, 
1 cupful sugar, 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 
1 teaspoonful butter, 
1 lemon. 

Boil sugar, and water, stir in corn- 
starch, wet with water, butter, 1 
lump of sugar well rubbed on lemon 
rind, or any flavoring preferred. 
Care must be taken to cook corn- 
starch well or it will taste raw. 



CHAPTER XXXI 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



To the country housewife who has 
access to plenty of ice, milk, cream, 
and fruit, raw or preserved, frozen 
desserts are not a luxury; besides, 
they require no more time to make 
than a pie. In hot weather at least 
they are very much to be preferred 
to pastry desserts, both hygienically 
and from a palatable standpoint. 
Cream is by no means a necessity in 
the making of frozen dishes — fruit 
can be frozen, delicious sherbets may 
he made from milk or fruit-flavored 
water, and are as inexpensive as they 
are good. In a home where there are 
children, the little ones will gladly 
come to aid during the freezing proc- 
ess when ice cream is in prospect, as 
every mother knows. 

First, there is the necessity of a 
good freezer. Never economize by 
purchasing a cheap one; the best is 
the truest economy in the end. Alsq 
provide a strong burlap bag and a 
mallet for smashing ice, as well as a 
dipper to measure salt and ice, for 
half the rapidity of the freezing 
process depends on the proper pro- 
portions being used. In winter, 
snow can be utilized instead of ice; if 
the salt does not act rapidly upon it, 
add a cupful cold water. Before 
pouring the stuff to be frozen into 
the can, adjust every part and give 
the crank a few twirls to insure the 
freezer being in first-class order. 
Then fill the can, adjust it again, 
and put in the crushed ice and salt 
in proper quantities. If there is 
only a small quantity to be frozen, 
the salt and ice need come no higher 
than the mixture inside. Never fill 
the can to the top; it will make a 
cream coarse-grained or it will spill 
out. At first, turn the crank stead- 



ily but rather slowly. When frozen 
to a mush, turn more rapidly, add- 
ing more salt and ice if necessary. 
Never draw off the brine till the 
freezing process is accomplished, then 
remove the top and dasher, and pack 
solidly with a spoon, put a cork 
dipped in lard into the hole at the 
top so there will not be the slightest 
danger of brine working in, and re- 
pack the freezer with 4 measures ice 
to one salt. Cover with newspapers 
or a piece of carpet and leave it, if 
possible, for two hours to mellow and 
ripen. If nuts, fruit, or liquors are to 
be added to frozen stuff, do not put 
them in till the mixture is a mush. 
When serving time comes, remove the 
can, wipe it off carefully before open- 
ing to make sure not a drop of brine 
can get inside, take off the lid, run a 
palette knife around the edge of the 
cream, invert the can on a platter, 
and the contents will slip out. If it 
should prove refractory, wring a 
cloth from hot water, wrap it about 
the can, and there will be no further 
trouble. 

Keep your freezer in perfect or- 
der. After using, wash it thoroughly 
and set the pieces in a moderate 
oven or over the stove to get per- 
fectly dry. Occasionally a drop of 
oil is needed to make it work well. 
There is a small hole in the cap cov- 
ering the gear; look into this end an^ 
turn the crank till you discover an- 
other hole in the top gear of the 
frame. Let a few drops of machine 
oil drop into it. 

Frozen dishes may be classified 
thus: 

Water lee. — Sweetened fruit juice, 
diluted with water, requires 3 level 
measures ice to 1 salt. 



191 



192 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Sherbet. — A water ice, to which has 
been added a small quantity of dis- 
solved gelatin or beaten whites of 
eggs. 

Frappe. — ^Water ice frozen to the 
consistency of mush. Frapp6 re- 
quires equal quantities of ice and salt 
to give it a granular consistency. 

Punch. — A water ice, to which has 
been added spirits or spices for 
stronger flavoring. 

Frozen Fruits. — Fruit pulp frozen 
where one or several kinds of fruits 
have been used. ' 

Philadelphia Ice Cream. — A cus- 
tard foundation thin cream, and fla- 
voring. 

Uousse (Parfait or Fruit Pud- 
ding). — Heavy cream, whipped stiff, 
sweetened, flavored, poured in ji mold, 
packed in ice and salt (9 parts ice to 
1 salt), and allowed to stand three 
or four hours. Mousse is also made 
from the whip off thin cream folded 
into a mixture containing a small 
quantity of gelatin. 



WATER ICES 
Cider Ice. 

1 quart cider, 

1 cupful orange juice, 
i cupful lemon juice, 
1} cupfuls sugar. 

Dissolve the sugar in the cider, add 
the fruit juice, mix the ingredients, 
and freeze. 

Orange Ice. 

4 cupfuls water, 

2 cupfuls orange juice, 
2 cupfuls sugar, 

i cupful lemon juice. 
Grated rind 2 oranges. 

Boil sugar and water twenty min- 
utes. Add fruit juices and grated 
rind; cool, strain, and freeze. 

Apple Water Ice. 

6 large tart apples, 
2 cupfuls sugar, 
4 cupfuls water, 
2 lemons. 



Put the apples, sugar, and water 
on to boil, add the grated yellow rind 
of 1 lemon. Cook' until the apples 
are reduced to a pulp, take from the 
fire, drain carefully, without squeez- 
ing, add the juice of the lemons; 
when cold, freeze. 

Currant Water Ice. 

2 cupfuls red-currant juice, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

2 cupfuls boiling water. 

Add the sugar to the boiling wa- 
ter, and stir until dissolved. When 
cold, add the currant juice, and 
freeze. 

Pineapple Water lee. 

2 large yellow pineapples, 

3 cupfuls sugar, 

4 cupfuls water. 
Juice 2 lemons. 

Pare the pineapples, grate them, 
and add the juice of the lemons. BoU 
the sugar and water together five 
minutes. When cold, add the pine- 
apple, strain through a, fine sieve, and 
freeze. 

Raspberry Water Ice. 

1 quart red raspberries, 
4 cupfuls water. 
Juice 2 lemons, 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

Add the sugar and lemon juice to 
the berries, stir, and stand an hour; 
then mash, add the water, strain 
through a cloth, and freeze. 

Strawberry Water Ice. 

1 quart strawberries, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
4 cupfuls water. 
Juice 2 lemons. 

Add the sugar and lemon juice to 
the strawberries, mash them, and 
stand an hour; add the water, strain 
through a cloth, and freeze. , 

Grape Water Ice. 

3 pounds Concord grapes, 

4 cupfuls water, 
2 cupfuls sugar. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



193 



Boil the sugar and water together 
five minutes. Pulp the grapes, add 
the pulps and skins to the sirup; 
stand to cool. When cold, press 
through a fine sieve, being careful 
not to mash the seeds, and freeze. 

Qinger Water Ice. 

6 ounces preserved ginger, 
1 quart lemon water ice. 

Pound 4 ounces ginger to a paste. 
Cut the remaining 3 ounces into very 
thin slices and stir these into the wa- 
ter ice. Repaclc, and stand to ripen. 

lemon Water Ice. 

4 large juicy lemons, 
4 cupfuls water, 
I orange, 
2J cupfuls sugar. 

Put the sugar and water on to 
boil. Chip the yellow rind from 3 
lemons and the orange, add to the 
sirup, boil five minutes, and stand 
to cool. Squeeze the juice from the 
orange and lemons, add to the cold 
sirup, strain through a cloth, and 
freeze. 

Barberry Water Ice. 
4 large juicy lemons, 
4 cupfuls water, 
1 orange, 
2i cupfuls sugar, 
1 cupful barberry juice. 

Add i pint barberry juice, slightly 
sweetened, to the recipe for lemon wa- 
ter ice, before freezing. 

Pomegranate Water Ice. 

1 dozen ripe pomegranates, 

2 cupfuls water, . 
2 cupfuls sugar. 

Cut the pomegranates into halves, 
remove the seeds carefully from the 
inside bitter skin, press in a sieve 
without breaking the seeds. Add the 
sugar to the juice, and stir until dis- 
solved, add the water, strain, and 
freeze. 



Quince Water Ice. 

3 large ripe quinces, 

4 cupfuls water, 
1 cupful sugar. 

Pare the quinces and cut into thin 
slices, add with the sugar to the wa- 
ter, cover the saucepan, cook fifteen 
minutes, strain, and freeze. 

Italian Tutti-Frutti. 

1 pound mixed French candied 

fruits, 
4 cupfuls water, 
3i cupfuls sugar, 

3 lemons, 

4 oranges. 

Chop the fruit fine. Put the sugar 
and water with chipped rinds of 3 
lemons and 1 orange to boil five min- 




u, Round Fluted Mold; b, French Bread Pan; 
c. Melon Mold; d. Pudding Mold; e. Shell 
Mold for Jelly; f, Deep Fluted Mold; g, In- 
dividual Shell Mold for Jelly or Cream ; 
h. Individual Jelly Mold. 

utes. When cold, add the juice of 3 
lemons and oranges, strain, and freeze 
very hard; then stir in the fruit, 
stand thirty minutes, and it is ready 
to serve. 



SHERBETS 

Lemon Sherbet. 
4 lemons, 
3 cupfuls sugar, 
1 quart boiling water. 

Shave off the peel from 3 lemons. 
Put -the parings into a bowl, add the 
boiling water, and let stand ten min- 
utes closely covered. Cut the lemons 



194 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



in halves, remove the seeds, squeeze 
out the juice, and add with the sugar 
to the water. Strain and freeze. 



Lemon Sherbet with Gelatin. 
1 tablespoonful gelatin, 
3J cupfuls cold water, 
6 lemons, 

1 cupful sugar, 

i cupful boiling water. 

Soak the gelatin in i cupful cold 
water twenty minutes. Put the sug- 
ar and remaining cold water into a 
pitcher. Pare the lemons, cut in 
halves, remove the seeds, and press 
out the juice with a. lemon squeezer; 
add it to the sirup. Dissolve the 
soaked gelatin in the boiling water, 
and add to the other mixture. Strain 
and freeze. 

Apple Sherbet. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
Juice 2 lemons, 
1 pound apples, 
1 quart water. 
White 1 egg, 

1 tablespoonful powdered sugar. 

Put the sugar, water, and rind of 
1 lemon, chipped, on to boil. Pare, 
core, and quarter the apples, add 
them to the sirup, and cook until ten- 
der; press through a fine sieve, add 
the juice of lemons, and, when cold, 
freeze the same as ice cream. Beat 
the white of 1 egg until frothy, add a 
tablespoonful powdered sugar, and 
beat until white and stiff. Remove 
the dasher, stir in the meringue, and 
repack. 

Apricot Sherbet. 
1 quart apricots, 
1 lemon, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 cupful water. 

Boil the sugar and water five min- 
utes. Press the apricots through a 
sieve, add to the sirup, and lemon 
juice. When cold, freeze. Peach 
sherbet is made in the same manner. 



Banana Sherbet. 

1 dozen red-skinned bananas, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
2 oranges, 

1 quart water. 

Boil the sugar and water five min- 
utes, and add the juice of the 
oranges; when cold, stir in the ba- 
nanas mashed fine, and freeze. 

Cherry Sherbet. 

1 quart sour cherries, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
1 quart water. 

Boa the sugar and water fifteen 
minutes. Stone the cherries, and add 
to the sirup when cold. Press through 
a sieve, and freeze. 

Ginger Sherbet. 

4 large jvdcy lemons, 
1 quart water, 
IJ pounds sugar. 

Make a lemon sherbet; when fro- 
zen, add a tablespoonful sirup from 
preserved Canton ginger. 

Orange Sherbet. 

1 pint orange juice, 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatin, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
1 quart water. 

Cover the gelatin with a little cold 
water and soak half an hour. Boil 
the sugar and water five minutes, add 
the gelatin, and allow to cool. Add 
the orange juice, and freeze. 

Easpberry-and-Currant Sherbet. 
1 quart raspberries, 
J pint currant juice, 

3 cupfuls sugar, 

1 quart water. 

Boil the sugar and water five min- 
utes. When cold, add the currant 
juice and the raspberries, mashed; 
strain through a cloth, and freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

2 large pineapples or 1 quart can, 
2J cupfuls sugar. 



FROZEN DESSiERTS 



Ids 



Juice 3 lemons, 
1 quart water. 

Grate the pineapple. Boil the sug- 
ar and water five minutes, add the 
pineapple and juice of lemons. Strain 
and freeze. 

Pomona Sherbet. 

1 pint orange juice, 

1 quart new cider, 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

Mix the cider and orange juice, 
stir in the sugar until thoroughly dis- 
solved; strain and freeze. 

Strawherry Sherbet. 

1 quart red strawberries, 

3 cupfuls sugar, 
1 quart water. 
Juice 3 lemons. 

Boil the sugar and water. Add 
the lemon juice to the strawberries 
and mash them. When the sirup is 
cold, pour it over the strawberries, 
strain and freeze. 

f omegranate §herbet. 
3 cupfuls sugar, 
1 teaspooonful gelatin, 
1 quart water, 
i dozen blood oranges, 
1 lemon. 

Prepare a sirup as for lemon sher- 
bet; when cold, add lemon juice^ 
freeze. 

Peach Sherbet. 

3 cupfuls sugar, 

1 teaspoonful gelatin, 

2 oranges, 

1 quart water, 
I peck peaches, 
1 lemon. 

To a sirup prepared as for lemon 
sherbet, add a pint peach pulp, also 
the orange and lemon juice. 

Blackberry Sherbet. 

3 quarts blackberries, 

1 tablespoonful gelatin, 

2 cupfuls granulated sugar, 
2 lemons. 



Crush 2 quarts juicy blackberries 
with a cupful granulated sugar. Let 
stand an hour. Put the fruit and 
sugar through a vegetable press and 
strain the juice. There should be at 
least 1| pints. To this add another 
cupful sugar and a pint water, and 
stir until the sugar is dissolved. Have 
ready a tablespoonful gelatin which 
has been soaked half an hour in cold 
water, then dissolved in a little boil- 
ing water. Put this with the other 
ingredients, add the lemon juice, and 
freeze. 

Milk Sherbet. 

1 teaspoonful gelatin, 
IJ cupfuls sugar, 
1 quart milk. 
Juice 4 lemons. 
Juice 1 orange. 

Soften the gelatin in J cupful milk, 
dissolve over hot water, and strain 
into the rest of the milk; turn the 
milk into the can of the freezer 
packed for freezing; when thoroughly 
chilled, add the fruit juice and sugar 
stirred together; freeze. 

PBAPPfS 

Iced Chocolate. 

4 ounces Runkel's Sweet Choco- 
late, 
Scant i cupful sugar, 
1 cupful water, 
1 quart cream, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Put the chocolate, water, and sug- 
ar in a saucepan to melt; stir until 
perfectly smooth. Put the cream in 
a double boiler, and when hot, add 
gradually to the chocolate mixture, 
and beat until thoroughly mixed; 
when cold, strain, add the vanilla^ 
and freeze. 

Iced Coffee. 

If cupfuls sugar, 

2 cupfuls water, 

2 cupfuls black coffee, 
1 quart cream. 



196 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Boll the sugar and water together 
five minutes, add the coffee, then the 
cream, and when cold, freeze. Serve 
in glasses. 

Iced Xemonade. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
4 cupfuls water. 
Juice 4 large lemons. 

Melt the sugar and water together, 
add the lemon juice, and freeze to the 
consistency of soft snow. Serve in 
lemonade glasses. 

Iced Raspherry Vinegar. 
Sugar, 

1 quart water, 
Raspberry vinegar. 

Mix the sugar, raspberry vinegar, 
and water according to taste, mak- 
ing it a little oversweet; freeze. 

Coffee Frappe. 

8 cupfuls water, 

3 cupfuls sugar, 

1 cupful coffee. 
White 1 egg. 

Put the coffee in a farina boiler, 
pour boiling water over it, stir occa- 
sionally five minutes, then strain 
through fine muslin, add the sugar, 
and stir until dissolved. When cold, 
add the white of egg imbeaten, and 
freeze to the consistency of wet snow. 
Serve in punch glasses. Tea frapp6. 
may be made after the same fashion. 

Orange Crianite. 
6 oranges, 

2 cupfuls orange juice, 
2 cupfuls sugar, 

2 cupfuls water. 

Boil the sugar and water five min- 
utes. Peel the oranges, remove every 
particle of white skin, separate the 
carpels and carefully remove the 
seeds. Drop these into the hot sirup, 
and stand an hour, then drain the 
sirup into another vessel, add the 
orange juice, mix, strain, and freeze. 
When frozen rather stiff, add the 



pieces of oranges, and serve in 
glasses. 

Strawberry Granite. 

2 cupfuls orange juice, 

2 cupfuls strawberry jmce, 
1 quart whole strawberries, 

3 cupfuls sugar, 
3 cupfuls water. 

Boil the sugar and water five min- 
utes. Drop the strawberries into this 
sirup, lift them carefully with a 
skimmer, and place on a platter to 
cool; then add to the sirup the straw- 
berry and orange juice. Strain and 
freeze. When frozen, stir in the 
strawberries, and serve in glasses. 

FROZEN rUTJITS 

Frozen Apricots. 

1 quart can apricots, 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatin, 
2 cupfuls sugar, 

2 cupfuls cream. 
Drain the apricots, cut them in 
pieces, measure the sirup, and add 
sufficient water to nnke IJ pints; 
add the sugar. Cover the gelatin 
with a little cold water and soak half 
an hour. Boil the sugar, sirup, and 
water together five minutes, skim 
carefully, add the gelatin, stir until 
dissolved, add the apricots, and stand 
to cool; then freeze, stirring slowly. 
When frozen, remove the dasher and 
add the cream whipped. Repack, 
cover, and stand two hours. Dried 
apricots, carefully cooked, can be 
used. 

Frozen Bananas. 

1 dozen red-skinned bananas, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
2 cupfuls water. 
Juice 2 oranges, 
2 cupfuls cream. 

Peel the bananas, cut them in 
slices, then mash fine. Boil the wa- 
ter and sugar five minutes, strain, and 
when cool, add the orange juice and 
bananas. Freeze, turning slowly. 
When frozen, remove the dasher and 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



197 



stir in carefully the cream whipped. 
Repack, and put away to ripen. 

Frozen Peaches. 

5 pounds peaches, 
4 cupfuls water, 

6 peach kernels, 
3 cupfuls sugar. 

Pare the peaches and take out the 
stones. Pound the kernels to a paste, 
add them with the sugar to the wa- 
ter, boil five minutes, strain, and cool. 
When cold, add the peaches, mashed, 
and freeze. Repack, and stand to 
ripen. 

I'rozen Cherries. 

3 quarts morello cherries, 

4 cupfuls sugar, 
4 cupfuls water. 

Stone the cherries, mix them with 
the sugar, and stand an hour; add 
the water, stir until the sugar is thor- 
oughly dissolved, put in the freezer, 
and turn rapidly until frozen. 

rrozen Pineapples. 

3 large pineapples, 

4 cupfuls sugar, 

4 cupfuls water. 

Pare the pineapples, cut out the 
eyes, and grate the flesh, rejecting 
the core; add the sugar and water, 
stir until the sugar is dissolved, and 
freeze. 

Frozen Baspbeiries. 
1 quart raspberries, 

5 cupfuls sugar. 
Juice lemons, 
4 cupfuls water. 

Add the sugar and lemon juice to 
the berries, mash, and stand an hour; 
add the water, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, and freeze. 

Frozen Strawberries. 

1 quart strawberries. 
Juice 3 lemons, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
4 cupfuls water. 



Add the sugar and lemon juice to 
the berries, and stand an hour. Mash 
the berries, add the water, stir until 
the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, and 
freeze slowly. 

ICE CKEAM 

Coffee Cream. 

i cupful very strong coffee, 

1 pint milk, 

3 pints cream, 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

Heat the milk and half the cream 
in a double boiler. Put in the coffee 
and sugar, and stir until the latter is 
dissolved. Take from the fire, and 
when cool, put into the freezer with 
the uncooked cream. If you wish 
to have a light, more spongy cream, 
you may whip the uncooked cream, 
and stir this into the contents of the 
freezer when these have begun to 
congeal. Freeze, and when solid, pack 
for an hour before serving. 

Xemon Cream. 
1 pint cream, 
I teaspoonful salt, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 lemon. 

Pare the rind off a lemon, cut in 
halves, remove the seeds, and squeeze 
out the juice. Strain the juice and 
mix it with the same amount of sug- 
ar. Boil until clear, stir through the 
cream, and freeze. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

3 cupfuls milk, 

1§ cupfuls whipped cream, 
J cupful sugar, 
3 eggs, 

1 tablespooonf ul Mcllhenny's 
Mexican Vanilla. 

Beat the eggs with the sugar, scald 
the milk, blend, and pour the mix- 
ture in a double boiler. Cook a few 
minutes to set the eggs, but not so 
the mixture thickens like a custard. 
Remove from the fire, cool, add the 
cream and vanilla. When cold, freeze. 



198 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Pistachio Cream. 
1 quart cream, 
J pound pistachio nuts, 
1 quart milk, 
li cupfuls sugar, 
1 dessertspoonful pistache ex- 
tract. 

Shell the nuts and remove the out- 
side skins; chop fine and rub to a 
paste, adding gradually the extract. 
Add the sugar to the milk, and stir 
in a double boiler until the sugar is 
dissolved and the milk hot. Stand 
until cold. Add a little cream grad- 
ually to the nuts, continue rubbing 
constantly to a smooth paste, then 
add the entire quantity of cream. If 
the nuts are pale, add 2 drops green 
coloring. Add this to the milk, and 
freeze. 

Bisque Ice Cieam. 
Yolks 8 eggs, 
IJ pints cream. 
Juice 1 orange, 
i cupful sugar, 
J saltspoonful salt, 
i pound macaroons. 

Beat the first 3 ingredients with a 
wire whip until the mixture is very 
smooth. Pour it into a saucepan, 
place over a slow fire, and stir con- 
stantly until it is a custard. Do not 
let it boil. Strain into a bowl which 
has been chilled; stir two minutes 
and freeze. Remove dasher, ilavor 
with i teaspoonful grated rind of 
orange or lemon, add the cream 
whipped stiff, and the macaroons 
crushed iuie. Pack in ice and salt. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 
1 quart strawberries, 
1 quart cream, 
3 cupfuls sugar. 

Put half the sugar and half the 
cream in a double boiler over the fire; 
when the sugar dissolves, cool. Mash 
the strawberries, adding half the sug- 
ar, then stand an hour. Press through 
a colander. Add remaining half the 
cream to the sweetened cream and 



freeze moderately stiff, then add the 
berries, and repack. If canned straw- 
berries are used, half the sugar may- 
be omitted. 

Pineapple Cream. 

1 quart cream, 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
Juice 1 lemon, 

1 large pineapple or 1 pint can. 

Scald the cream with half the sug- 
ar, stir until sugar' is dissolved, and 
cool. Grate the pineapple, mix with 
the rest of the sugar, and stir untU 
dissolved. Add the remaining pint 
cream to sweetened cream, and freeze; 
add the lemon juice to the pineapple, 
and stir into the frozen cream; beat 
thoroughly and pack. If canned pine- 
apple is used, add the lemon juice, 
and stir into the cream when cold. 

Ginger Cream. 

6 ounces preserved ginger, 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 
1 pint cream, 

J cupful sugar. 

Pound the sugar to a paste with 
the lemon juice. Mix sugar and 
cream, add to the ginger, press 
through a sieve, and freeze. 

Cocoannt Cream. 
1 quart cream, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 tablespoonful Mcllhenny's 

Mexican Vanilla, 
1 cocoanut grated. 

Scald half the cream with the sug- 
ar. When cool, add the rest of cream, 
vanilla, and cocoanut; freeze. 

Vanilla Cream with Extract. 
1 quart cream, 
1 cupful sugar, 

3 tablespoonfuls Mcllhenny's 
Mexican Vanilla. 

Scald half the cream with sugar. 
When cold, add the remainder of the 
cream, vanilla, and freeze. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



I9d 



tee Cream from Condensed ICilk. 
1 can condensed milk, 
3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
1 tablespoonf ul Mcllhenn y's 
Mexican Vanilla. 

Add sufficient boiling water to 1 
can condensed milk to make it the 
proper consistency. Moisten 3 table- 
spoonfuls cornstarch with a little 
cold milk, add to the mixture, stir and 
cook five minutes, and take from the 
fire; when cold, add vanilla extract to 
flavor; freeze. 

Arrowroot Cream. 
1 pint cream, 

1 quart milk, 

IJ cupfuls sugar, 

2 tablespoonf uls arrowroot, 

1 tablespoonf ul Mcllhenn y's 
Mexican Vanilla. 

Moisten the arrowroot with a little 
milk; put the remainder in a double 
boiler; when hot, add the arrowroot, 
stir and cook ten minutes, add the 
sugar, take from the fire, add the 
cream and vanilla. When cold, freeze. 

Gelatin Cream. 

1 quart cream, 

1 pint milk, 

IJ cupfuls sugar, 
J box gelatin, 

2 tablespoonf uls Mcllhenn y's 
Mexican Vanilla. 

Cover the gelatin with the milk and 
stand in a cool place thirty minutes; 
put it in a double boiler; when hot, 
add the sugar, strain, add the cream 
and vanilla, and freeze. 

Caramel Cream. 
1 quart cream, 
1 cupful sugar, 
6 eggs, 

3 tablespoonfuls caramel, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 
Beat the yolks of eggs and the 
sugar together until light. Whisk 
the whites to a stiff froth, stir them 



into the yolks and sugar. Scald the 
cream, then stir and cook until the 
mixture begins to thicken. Take 
from the fire, and strain; when cold, 
add the vanilla, and freeze. 

Almond Cream. 
Yolks 6 eggs, 

1 quart cream, 

2 ounces Jordan almonds, 
IJ cupfuls sugar. 

Blanch the almonds and chop them 
fine. Put 2 tablespoonfuls granulated 
sugar with the chopped almonds in a 
saucepan, stir over the fire until the 
almonds are red brown, take from the 
fire and when cool, pound them to a 
paste. Put the cream in a double 
boiler. Beat the eggs and sugar to- 
gether until light, add to the hot 
cream, stir until thickened, take from 
the fire, add the pounded almonds, 
and freeze. 

Brown-Bread Ice Cream. 

2 slices brown bread, 

1 cupful sugar, 

2 lady's fingers, 
i pint milk, 

1 pint cream. 

Put the bread in the oven and 
brown, roll, and sift. Dry and roll 
the lady's fingers. Put the cream, 
milk, and sugar in a double boiler, 
and stir until the sugar is dissolved; 
when cold, freeze. When frozen, add 
the sifted crumbs, and repack. 

Kaspberry-Jam Cream. 

1 pound raspberry jam. 
Juice 1 lemon, 
1 pint cream, 
1 gill milk. 

Mix the lemon juice with the rasp- 
berry jam, add gradually the milk 
and cream, strain through a sieve, 
and freeze. 

Burnt-Almond Cream. 
1 quart cream, 
1 cupful sugar, 
4 ounces shelled almonds. 



200 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



1 teaspoonful caramel, 
1 tablespoonf 111 Mcllhenny's 
Mexican Vanilla. 

Blanch and roast the almonds, then 
povind them in a mortar to a. paste. 
Put half the cream and the sugar on 
to boil, stir until the sugar Is dis- 
solved, add the remaining pint of 
cream and the almonds; when cold, 
add the caramel and vanilla; freeze. 

Chocolate Cream. 

S cupfuls scalded milk, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 
1 egg, 

J cupful boiling water, 
IJ cupfuls sugar, 
J teaspoonful salt, 
3 squares Runlcel's Chocolate, 
1 quart thin cream, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can VaniUa. 

Mix 1 cupful sugar with the flour 
and salt. Add the egg slightly beat- 
en, and gradually the milk. Cook 
over hot water twenty minutes, stir- 
ring constantly at first. Put choco- 
late in saucepan, place over hot wa- 
ter, and when melted, add remaining 
sugar and boiling water. Add choco- 
late mixture to hot custard. Cool, 
add cream and flavoring, strain and 
freeze. One third cupful Runkel's 
Prepared Cocoa may be used in place 
of chocolate. 

Apricot Cream. 
1 quart cream, 
li cupfuls sugar, 
1 quart apricots or 1 pint can. 

Put half the cream to heat in a 
double boiler. When hot, add the 
sugar, and stir until dissolved. Take 
from the fire, add the remaining half 
of the cream, and when cold, freeze. 
Mash the apricots and stir them 
quickly into the frozen cream; turn 
the crank rapidly for five minutes; 
pack. 

Banana Cream. 
8 bananas, 
1 quart cream, 
1 cupful cream. 



Peel and mash the bananas. Put 
1 pint cream to scald in a double 
boiler. When hot, add the sugar, stir 
until dissolved, and cool. Beat and 
stir the bananas to a smooth paste, 
add to the cream and sugar; then 
add the remainder of cream, and 
freeze. 

Uandarin Cream. 
1 quart cream, 
1 cupful sugar. 
Juice 13 mandarins. 
Rind S mandarins. 

Put half the cream to scald in a 
double boiler, add the sugar, and stir 
imtil dissolved. When cool, add the 
juice and rind of mandarins and the 
remaining half of cream; freeze. 

Raspberry Cream. 
1 quart cream, 
S cupfuls sugar, 
1 quart raspberries. 
Juice 1 lemon. 

Put half the sugar, and cream to 
boil; when sugar is dissolved, cool; 
add the rest of sugar and lemon juice 
to the berries, stand an hour, then 
strain. Add the remaining half of 
the cream to the sweetened cream, 
and freeze; when frozen, stir in the 
fruit juice, beat tlioroughly, and 
pack. 

Peach Cream. 

1 quart cream, 
J peck peaches, 
IJ cupfuls sugar, 
1 lemon. 

Scald 1 quart thin cream and 1 
cupful sugar; when cold, freeze to a 
mush, then add li cupfuls peach 
pulp, mixed with J cupful sugar, and 
the juice of J lemon; finish freezing. 

Blackberry Ice Cream. 
1 quart milk, 
1 quart blackberries, 
1 lemon,- 

1 pint double cream, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



201 



Stir cornstarch, mixed with the 
sugar, into the milk, which has been 
previously scalded. Cook until the 
mixture thickens. The mixture will 
be as thick as thin cream. Add the 
cream, and when cold, freeze to a 
mush. A tablespoonful lemon ex- 
tract may be added before freezing. 
Crush a basket of ripe, juicy black- 
berries, and press through a purie 
sieve to remove the seeds. Mix the 
pulpy juice, of which there should be 
a pint, with a cupful sugar, and set 
on the ice to chill. Add to the half- 
frozen mixture, and finish freezing. 



PABFAIT, MOUSSE, AND FROZEN 
PUDDING 

Apricot Pudding. 

1 quart cream. 

Yolks 4 eggs, 

IJ cupfuls sugar, 

13 apricots. 
Scald 1 pint cream. Beat together 
the egg yolks, and sugar, stir into hot 
cream, cook one minute, take from 
the fire, and add the remaining pint 
cream. When frozen, stir in the apri- 
cots, which should be pared and cut 
in small pieces. Peach pudding may 
be made in the same manner. 

Queen Pudding. 

Line a melon mold two inches deep 
with vanilla ice cream or strawberry 
water ice. Have ready a pint frozen 
peaches; fill these into the center, 
cover with ice cream, put on the lid, 
bind the edges with a strip of but- 
tered cloth, pack and stand two 
hours. When ready to serve, wipe the 
outside of the mold, with a warm 
towel, and turn the pudding out on a 
large dish. Dust with grated maca- 
roons, and serve inmiediately. 

Chesterfield Cream. 
1| cupfuls sugar, 
Rind 1 lemon, 

1 pint preserved damsons, 
IJ pints cream. 

Yolks 3 eggs, 

2 inch stick cinnamon. 



Scald the cream with the cinnamon 
and the rind of lemon chipped. Beat 
the sugar and yolks together, add to 
the hot cream, cook one minute, 
strain, and when cold, freeze. When 




a. Extension Strainer ; b. Small Wire Strainer. 

frozen, stir in an extra pint cream 
whipped. Stand two hours. Serve 
with preserved damsons around it. 

Macedoine of Fruit. 
3 cupfuls sugar, 
1 quart water, 
3 bananas. 
Juice 2 oranges, 
1 lemon, 

1 small pineapple, 
13 large strawberries, 
1 gill strawberry jelly, 
3 tablespoonfuls gelatin. 

Cover the gelatin with a little cold 
water, and soak half an hour. Boil 
the sugar and water together ten 
minutes, add the gelatin, orange, and 
lemon juice, bananas cut into small 
pieces, pineapple picked into small 
pieces, strawberries cut into halves, 
and jelly cut into blocks. Freeze, 
turning the crank very slowly. 

Frozen Orange Souffle. 
1 quart cream, 

1 pint orange juice. 
Yolks 6 eggs, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
I box gelatin. 

Cover the gelatin with J cupful cold 
water, and soak an hour, then dis- 
solve in 4 cupful boiling water. Mix 
the orange juice and the sugar to- 
gether. Whip the cream. Beat the 
yolks until light, add them to the 
orange juice and sugar; add the gela- 
tin, strain, and freeze. When frozen. 



S02 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



remove dasher, stir in tlie whipped 
cream, and stand two hours to ripen. 

Frozen Strawberry Souffle. 
1 pint strawberry juice, 
IJ cupfuls sugar, 
i box gelatin, 
i cupful cold water. 
Yolks 6 eggs, 
1 quart cream. 

Mix the strawberry juice and sug- 
ar untU they form a sirup. Cover the 
gelatin with cold water, and soak half 
an hour, then add a cupful boiling 
water, and stir until dissolved. Beat 
the yolks of eggs, add them to the 
sirup, also the gelatin, and freeze. 
When frozen, stir in lightly the cream 
whipped to a stiff froth; repack. 

Frozen Pudding. 
1 quart milk, 
20 large raisins. 
Yolks 4 eggs, 

1 cupful sugar, 

2 ounces citron, 

2 ounces almonds, 

1 tablespoonf ul Mcllhenny's 

Mexican "Vanilla. 
1 ounce preserved ginger. 

Put the milk and raisins in a double 
boiler and cook twenty minutes. Beat 
the yolks and sugar together, add to 
the hot milk, cook one minute, and 
strain. When cold, add the citron 
chopped fine, the almonds blanched 
and grated, the vanilla and ginger cut 
into small pieces; freeze. 

Orange Mousse. 
6 oranges, 
1 pint cream, 
IJ cupfuls sugar, 
1 candied orange. 

Squeeze orange juice into a sauce- 
pan with the sugar; add the rind of 
1 orange, cut in pieces and 2 table- 
spoonfuls water. Place over the fire, 
stir with a wooden spoon until melted, 
strain, cool, and freeze. When fro- 
zen, remove dasher and add 1 pint 
cream whipped stiff, also the candied 
orange cut into small pieces. Pack in 



ice and salt for an hour and a half. 
Garnish with small pieces candied 
orange cut in thin strips, alternating 
with angelica cut in the same fashion. 
Finish with a row of sliced oranges 
cut in halves and lapping over each 
other. 

Tutti-rrntti. 

2 cupfuls milk. 

Yolks S eggs, 

2J cupfuls thin cream, 

I cupful sugar, 

J teaspoonful salt, 

1 J tablespoonf uls Mcllhenn y's 

Mexican Vanilla, 
Ij cupfuls fruit cut in small 

pieces. 

Make a custard of first 4 ingre- 
dients, strain, and cool. Add the 
cream and flavoring, then freeze to 
the consistency of mush, add the 
fruit, and continue freezing. Mold, 
pack in salt and ice, and let stand 
two hours. Candied cherries, pine- 
apple, figs, sultana raisins, and citron 
may be used. 

Pineapple Uousse. 

1 teaspoonful gelatin, 

1 pint double cream, 

1 cupful scalded pineapple juice, 

i cupful sugar. 

Juice i lemon. 

Soften the gelatin in 3 tablespoon- 
fuls cold water five minutes and dis- 
solve in the hot pineapple juice; add 
the sugar and let cool, then add the 
lemon juice and the cream; beat the 
mixture with an egg beater until 
thick. Turn into a chilled mold; 
press the cover down over wrapping 
paper, and let stand packed in equal 
measures of ice and salt three or four 
hours. Turn from the mold and sur- 
round with half slices pineapple sug- 
ared or dressed with a cold sugar 
sirup. 

Frozen Custard. 
1 quart milk, 
4 eggs, 
1 cupful sugar, 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



1 tablespoonf 111 Mcllhenny's 
Mexican Vanilla, 

2 tablespoonf uls • cornstarch. 

Scald the milk. Moisten the corn- 
starch with a little cold milk, add it 
to the hot milk, and stir until it be- 
gins to thjjken. Beat the eggs and 
sugar together, add to the hot milk, 
cook one minute, take from the fire, 
add vanilla, when cold, freeze. 

Frozen Coffee Custard. 
4 eggs, 
J pint cream, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 pint milk, 
i pint strong coffee. 

Scald the milk. Beat the eggs and 
sugar together until light; add them 
to the hot milk, cook, and instantly 
take from the fire, add the cream and 
coffee. When cold, freeze. 

Prozen Chocolate Cnstard. 
4 eggs, 
1 pint cream, 
1 pint milk, 

1 cupful sugar, 

2 ounces Runkel's Chocolate, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Put the milk over the fire in a dou- 
ble boUer; add the chocolate grated. 
Beat the eggs and sugar until light, 
add to, the hot milk, cook one minute, 
take from the fire, add the cream 
and a teaspoonful vanilla. When 
cold, freeze. 

Stuffed Uousse. 

1 quart strawberry water ice, 
1 pint cream, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
J cupful powdered sugar. 

Whip the cream to a stiff froth, 
drain, sprinkle over it the sugar and 
vanilla, mix carefully. Pack a 2- 
quart melon mold in salt and ice, line 
with the strawberry water ice, re- 
serving enough to cover bottom of 
the mold. Turn the whipped cream 



into the center, cover the water ice 
over the bottom, put on the lid, bind 
with a strip of buttered muslin, cover 
with salt and ice, and stand three or 
four hours. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

1 pint large chestnuts, 
1 pint cream, 

1 pint water. 
Yolks 6 eggs, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

i pint grated pineapple, 

1 pound mixed French candied 

fruit, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Boil the chestnuts until tender, re- 
move the shells and brown skins, 
press the pulp through a colander. 
Boil the sugar and water together 
five minutes. Beat the yolks of eggs 
until light, add to the boiling sirup, 
take from the fire, and beat until 
thick and cool. When cool, add the 
candied fruit chopped fine, the va- 
nilla, pineapple, and chestnuts. When 
frozen, remove the dasher, and stir in 
the cream, whipped to a. stiff froth. 

Iced Bice Pudding. 
i cupful rice, 
1 pint milk, 

1 quart cream, 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
Yolks 6 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Boil rice in 1 pint cold water; drain, 
cover with the milk, and boil half an 
hour longer. While this is boiling, 
whip the cream. After you have 
whipped all you can, add the remain- 
der and what has drained from the 
other to the rice and milk. Stand the 
whipped cream in a cold place. Press 
the rice through a sieve, and return 
to the double boiler. Beat the yolks 
and sugar together, pour over the 
rice, stir, return again to the fire, and 
cook two minutes, or until it begins 
to thicken. Add the vanilla, stir in 
the whipped cream, remove the dasher, 



204 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



smooth down the pudding, repack, 
and stand two hours. 

Compote of Oranges. 

1 dozen sweet oranges, 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
Juice i lemon, 

1 gill water. 

Put the sugar and water to boil; 
cook five minutes, skim, and add the 
lemon juice. Peel the oranges, cut 
in halves crosswise and cut out the 
cores with a sharp knife; put a few 
pieces at a time in the hot sirup, and 
lay them out singly on a flat dish; 
pour over them the remaining sirup 
and stand on ice to cool. To dish the 
pudding, lift out the can and care- 
fully wipe off the brine. Wipe the 
bottom with a towel dipped in boiling 
water, put a dish over the top of it, 
turn it upside down, and remove the 
can. Heap the oranges on top and 
arrange them around the base of the 
pudding, pour the sirup over them, 
and serve. 

Puree of Apricots. 

1 quart can apricots, 
1 cupful sugar. 
Yolks 6 eggs, 
1 pint cream. 

Mash the apricots, beat the yolks 
of eggs and sugar together until 
light, then add them with the cream 
to the apricots; turn into a double 
boiler, and stir until the eggs begin 
to thicken. Strain, and whip to the 
consistency of sponge-cake batter. 
When cool, turn into a mold and set 
in ice and salt three hours. 

Plombiere. 

i pound Jordan almonds. 
Yolks 7 eggs, 
1 quart cream, 
i cupful sugar. 

Blanch and pound the almonds to 
a paste. Scald the cream in a double 
boiler, add the almonds, egg yolks 
and sugar beaten to a cream, and stir 
over the fire until they begin to 
thick; beat for three minutes. 



Strain and freeze. When frozen, re- 
move the dasher, make a small well 
in the center, fill with apricot jam, 
cover, and stand two hours. 

Montrose Pudding. 
1 quart cream. 
Yolks 6 eggs, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 tablespoonf ul Mcllhenny's 

Mexican VaniUa, 
1 pint strawberry water ice. 

Scald the cream, beat the yolks and 
sugar, stir into the boiling cream, and 
cook until it thickens. Take from the 
fire, add the remaining pint cream 
and the vanilla, stand until cool, and 
freeze. When frozen, pack into a 
round mold, leaving a well in the 
center. Fill with strawberry water 
ice, cover with some of the pudding 
you have taken out. Pack in salt and 
ice, and let stand two hours. Serve 
with the following sauce poured 
around it: 

Vanilla Sauce. 

1 tablespoonful gelatin, 
1 pint cream. 
Yolks 3 eggs, 
i cupful sugar, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Cover the gelatin with a little cold 
water and soak half an hour. ScEild 
the cream. Beat the yolks and sugar 
together, add the boiling cream, stir 
until it thickens, add the gelatin, stir 
until it" dissolves ; take from the fire, 
add the vanilla, and stand in a cold 
place until wanted. 

Prozen Chocolate with Whipped 
Cream. 

3 squares Runkel's Chocolate, 
1 cupful sugar. 
Dash salt, 
1 cupful milk, 
3 cupfuls thin cream, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Melt the chocolate, scald the milk 
with the sugar and salt, and pour it 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



205 



over the chocolate. Add the cream, 
cool, freeze, and serve in glasses with 
a spoonful whipped cream in each. 

Chocolate Sauce to Serve with Va- 
nilla Ice Cream. 
IJ cupfuls water, 
i cupful sugar, 

6 tablespoonfuls Runkel's Choco- 
late, 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 
J cupful cold water. 
Dash salt, 

J tablespoonful Mcllhenny's 
Mexican Vanilla. 

Boil the water and sugar five min- 
utes. Dissolve the cornstarch in cold 
water, add the grated chocolate, 
combine the mixtures, and cook in a 
double boiler till creamy. Flavor 
with vanilla, and serve hot with va- 
nilla cream frozen very hard. 

rrozen Plum Pudding. 

1 quart chocolate ice cream, 
i cupful candied fruit, 

i cupful blanched and chopped 

almonds, 
i cupful raisins, 
J cupful macaroon crumbs 

toasted, 
i cupful shredded figs, 
i cupful chopped walnuts. 

Make the cream as directed in rec- 
ipe for chocolate ice cream; when al- 
most frozen, take off the lid, put in 
the fruit, turn the crank five minutes, 
then pack. This cream is so rich 
that it is at its best when served in 
small portions with a garnish of 
whipped cream. 

Chocolate Housse. 

2 squares Runkel's Chocolate, 
li cupfuls sugar, 

1 cupful cream, 

i tablespoonful granulated gela- 
tin, 

3 tablespoonfuls boiling water, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
1 quart cream. 



Melt the chocolate with J cupful 
sugar and add 1 cupful cream. Scald, 
then put in the gelatin dissolved in 
cold water, the rest of the sugar, va- 
nilla, and a dash of salt. Strain into 
a bowl and set in a pan of ice water. 
Stir occasionally till it thickens, then 
add the whip from the rest of the 
cream. Pour into a mold, rubbing 
inside the lid of the mold with lard to 
form a waterproof coating so no 
brine can enter, pack in ice and salt, 
and let stand four hours. 

Continental Pudding. 

li pints baked Indian-meal pud- 
ding, 
1 pint thick cream, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 tablespoonful caramel, 
i teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Stir the ingredients to a smooth 
paste, whip the cream, beat in the 
sugar, add the spice, mix with the 
pudding, and freeze without beating, 
scraping the frozen mixture from the 
sides of the can, and stirring smooth. 
Serve, when frozen, with cream. 



Angel-Cake Glace. 

1 quart cream. 

Whites 6 eggs, 

li cupfuls sugar, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

f cupful water, 

4 cupful finely sifted angel-cake 
crumbs. 

Cook the cream in a farina boiler, 
add sugar and flavoring, cool, strain, 
and freeze. Reserve i pound sugar 
and whites 4 eggs. Cook the sug- 
ar and water to the same degree re- 
quired for boiling icing, and pour hot 
upon the whites beaten to the stiffest 
possible froth. Stir this icing, with 
the cake crumbs, gently into the fro- 
zen cream. Line the bottom of a 
mold with slices of angel cake; upon 
these place a layer of the cream, 
then cake, so on until the mold is full. 



206 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Cover tightly, and pack in ice three 
hours. 

Fruit-Cake Crlacg. 
1 pint cream. 
Yolks 4 eggs, 
1 cupful sugar, 

J teaspoonful McIIhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
i teaspoonful mixed spices, 

3 ounces browned almond paste, 

4 macaroons, 

3 ounces dried and pounded fruit 
cake. 



1 ounce chocolate, 

1 tablespoonful caramel. 

Make a custard of the cream, yolks, 
and sugar; add vanilla, sugar, spices, 
chocolate, and caramel; freeze, then 
stir in nuts and crumbs, mold in a 
cake pan — any ordinary oblong pan, 
two or two and a half inches deep, 
freeze in salt and ice. Turn out on 
platter, cover half an inch with al- 
mond paste mixed with little boiled 
icing. Serve in slices, with soft cus- 
tard. 



CHAPTER XXXII 



PUFF PASTE 



If you have a marble slab to work 
on when making puff paste, your 
work will be easier. A rolling-pin 
with movable handles makes the 
touch lighter. There can be no heavy- 
handed methods, or you will have a 
solid, indigestible substance. Scald 
an earthen bowl, fill with ice water; 
wash your hands in hot water, then in 
cold. Work 1 pound butter in a bowl 
cold water until it is waxy and nearly 
all the salt is washed out of it. Take 
out the butter, pat and squeeze till 
the water flies. Measure from it 2 
level tablespoonfuls, mold the rest 
into an oblong cake, then set it where 
it will grow hard and cold. Sift 1 
pound flour with J teaspoonful salt 
into the bowl. Rub between the fin- 
gers and thumb the 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter. Mix with ice water, stirring 
constantly till you have a soft dough. 
Turn out on a marble slab, which has 
been dusted with flour. Knead with 
an even, light touch, till it feels elas- 
tic; then cover with a napkin, and 
set away to " ripen " five minutes. 
When the dough is ripened, you may 
begin work on it. Put the paste on 
the slab and, with the lightest possi- 
ble pats from the rolling-pin, shape it 
about half as wide as it is long, keep- 
ing the corners square. At one end 
lay the hardened piece of butter. 
Over this fold the rest of the dough. 
Tuck lightly around the edges, in- 
closing all the air possible. With 
light taps from the rolling-pin break 
up the butter, spreading it and roll- 
ing the paste into a longer strip. Be 
careful to keep the sides and ends of 
the paste even, and to break as few 
air bubbles as possible. When the, 
strip is almost as long as the slab. 



fold it like the letter Z, and begin 
again rolling, folding, and turning 
until the process has been repeated 
six times. If the paste shows the least 
symptom of being soft, or the butter 
of breaking through, set it away to 
chiU before you finish the process. 
Roll always in one direction, from 
you, with a long, sweeping motion. 
By cutting the paste across after the 
work is completed, you may see the 
texture which gives you a crust eight 
times as high after baking as before 
it was set in an oven. You will no- 
tice layer after layer of a waferlike 
thickness of butter and paste with tiny 
bubbles between. Wrap it in parch- 
ment paper and set away in a covered 
dish overnight. It will be all the 
more tender and flaky for twenty-four 
hours of " ripening." During the 
winter a batch of puff paste, wrapped 
and covered, may be kept for several 
weeks in a very cold place. Use it as 
desired, baking pat4s, vol au vents, 
or tarts as required. These will keep 
five or six days after making, being 
reheated before they are iilled. 

The oven for baking puff paste 
should be as hot as for rolls, with the 
greatest heat underneath, so the patS 
can rise to its full height before 
browning. As heat touches the pas- 
try the bubbles expand, lifting the 
thin layers higher and higher. When 
it has reached its height, and is baked 
delicately brown, you have what is 
properly called puff paste. 

NOTES ABOUT PUFF PASTE 

When using a cutter, always dip in 
flour between each cutting; it will 
insure neat edges. 



207 



208 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



If the work has to be done in a 
warm room, chill the paste between 
three pans, the upper one filled with 
broken ice, the second one set into 
another large pan, also filled with ice. 
Puff paste is always in good condi- 
tion if it slips easily on the slab. 

Should you wish to use is for a pie, 
bake it vol-aii-^ent fashion over the 
bottom of a pie-plate first, and fill 
after baking, or use ordinary pie 
paste for the bottom when the filling 
is to be baked. 

Build up the sides with puff paste; 
rich pastry never makes a good un- 
dercrust — ^it soaks. 

When baking small pieces such as 
pats tops or cheese straws, do not 
put them in a pan with the larger 
pieces; they bake in less than half the 
time required by the others. 

If you wish pastry to have a glazed 
appearance, brush over with beaten 
egg before putting it in the oven. 

Utilize trimmings for smaller 
things; never add them to the larger 
pieces of paste. 

Use the sharpest knife for cutting 
pastry; if it is dragged ever so 
slightly in the cutting it will not rise 
well. Also, in making two layers of 
pastry adhere, never press it together 
or you will have a heavy spot. 

Always have puff paste ice cold 
when it is put in the oven. Let the 
heat be greatest at the bottom when 
the paste is put in; it must rise be- 
fore it begins to brown. 



trimmings stars, hearts, crescents, or 
any forms you can produce with a 
paste jagger. Brush the paste on the 
saucer lightly with cold water, and 
stick on the ornaments in any style 
desired. Chill the vol au vent and 
lid for half an hour, then bake in an 
oven which is very hot at first, but 
cooled slightly when the pastry has 
risen and is beginning to brown. 
Watch the baking with great care, as 
the paste will burn or become un- 
shapely if not turned occasionally. A 
vol au vent may be filled with any 
cream mixture or with a cooked, 
chilled fruit and rich sirup. 

Fates. 

Roll out the paste half an inch 
tliick; shape two rovmds with a 
pat4 cutter. From one round cut a 
smaller piece. Use the ring left to 
lay on the other round, brushing with 
water to make it stick. Bake and fill 
with a creamed mixture, using the 
small round as a lid. 

Cieam Horns. 

Cream horns are made on fine-pointed 
tubes which are called ladylock irons. 
Cut the paste into ribbons with a 
knife or jagger and begin to wind at 
the small end, the edges scarcely 
touching. - Bake delicately brown. 
They may be filled with cream and 
chicken or oysters and served as an 
entrde, or with whipped cream as a. 
dessert. » 



PUFP-PASTE DAINTIES 

Vol au Vent. 

Lay a mold upon a round of puff 
paste, ToUed about half an inch thick, 
and cut out a circle as big as you 
think will be required to cover it. 
Set the mold upside down and tuck 
down the paste, handling carefully. 
Do not cover scantily anywhere or it 
will crack. Prick all over with a fork 
and set away in a cold place to chill 
thoroughly. Find a plate or saucer 
which fits the top of the mold and 
cover with puff paste. Cut from the 



Cheese Straws. 

Season some grated cheese with 
paprika and salt, then dust it over a 
piece of puff paste. Fold the paste 
and roll two or three times. Cut out 
in rings with a doughnut cutter or 
in straws with a jagger. The straws 
may be braided or baked singly. 

Flaky Pie Crust. 
3 cupfuls flour, 
i cupful butter, 
i cupful ice water, 
J cupful lard. 



PUFF PASTE 



209 



Sift the flour into a chopping bowl, 
add the butter and lard, and ciiop 
with a knife until no piece of the 
shortening larger than a pecan can be 
seen. Sprinkle the water here and 
there through the flour, and mix with 
a fork into a soft dough. Drop on a 
floured board, dust lightly with flour, 
press down with the rolling-pin, and 
roll back and forth until the paste 
becomes > an oblong sheet not more 
than half an inch in thickness. Slip 
a broad-bladed knife under each end 
of this sheet, and fold over toward the 
center, thus forming three layers of 
the paste. Lift, with the knife, from 
the board, dust with fresh flour; 
lay the paste down again, dust with 
flour, roll, and again fold over as be- 
fore. Repeat the operation, and the 
paste is ready to use. When ice wa- 
ter is added to the flour and short- 
ening, the shortening becomes dis- 
tributed through the flour in small 
balls and is not packed together in a 
mass, and when tBe dough is drawn 
together and lightly pressed with the 
rolling-pin these balls flatten into 
flakes, which, by repeated foldings, 
are piled one upon another, and by 
gently rolling become thinner and 
more delicate. Three rollings and 
foldings are as much as these flakes 
will bear. Rolling and folding a 
great number of times causes them 
to become broken and packed, so that 
the paste will not rise and puff up, 
as it should, in baking. It is well to 
let the paste lie on ice, or in a cold 
place, for an hour before rolling it 
out for pies, as its quality is im- 
proved by so doing; and if the 
weather is warm it may advantage- 
ously be placed on ice ten minutes 
between each rolling out. If a tea- 
spoonful baking powder be sifted 
with the flour, less shortening can be 
used, but the pastry wiU not be as 
crisp and delicate. — Emma P. Ewing. 

Apple Pie. 

Roll pie crust to the thickness de- 
sired. Place upon a pie pan, shaping 
it carefully, and cut round the edges 
with a sharp knife. Cover the bot- 



tom of the crust with a thin layer of 
sugar, dust with flour, then jfiU the 
crust with quarters of pared and 
cored apples. Dust with salt, add 
plenty of sugar — if the apples are 
very tart — roll an upper crust and 
lay over them, trim around the edges, 
press the upper and lower crusts to- 
gether, bake until the apples are soft 
and the top and bottom crusts are 
nicely browned. 

Raspberry Pie. 

To 3 cupfuls raspberries add 1 cup- 
ful ripe currants and 1 cupful gran- 
ulated sugar, with which a table- 
spoonful flour has been mixed; stir 
together. Line a plate with flaky pie 
crust, put in the fruit, cover with a 
tolerably thick sheet of paste, make 
several incisions for the escape of 
steam, and bake till the crusts are 
nicely browned. Serve cool. 

Cherry Pie. 

2 cupfuls sour cherries, 
1 cupful granulated sugar, 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

Pick over and wash the cherriesi 
add sugar and flour, mix together. 
Line a pan with paste, fill with the 
cherries, and cover with a sheet of 
paste, rolled twice as thick as or- 
dinary pie crust. Make incisions near 
the center for the escape of steam, 
and bake till brown. If the cherries 
are sweet, use less sugar. ^ 

Pumpkin Pie. 

2 cupfuls stewed pumpkin, 
1 cupful rich milk, 

i cupful molasses, 
i cupful granulated sugar, 
1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
1 tablespoonful ginger, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 eggs. 

Stir well together, line a deep tin 
pie pan with paste rolled moderately 
thick, sift a little flour evenly over 
the bottom, and fill three quarters full 
with the prepared mixture. Bake un- 
til the pie is brown in the center. In 



210 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOlt 



preparing the pumpkin, use very little 
water. Cover the kettle in which it is 
cooking, and stew until the pumpkin 
is perfectly soft, then remove the cov- 
er and continue the stewing, stirring 
frequently until the moisture evap- 
orates and the pumpkin becomes a 
smooth paste. Rub through a line 



Sweet-Potato Pie. 

2 cupfuls boiled sweet potato, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 

1 cupful sugar, 

Grated rind J lemon, 

1 tablespoonful ginger, 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 
i grated nutmeg, 

2 cupfuls milk. 
Yolks 3 eggs. 

Rub potatoes through a sieve, add 
butter, lemon juice, sugar in which 
have been mixed the grated rind of 
lemon, ginger, cinnamon, salt, and 
grated nutmeg. Stir well together, 
add milk and the beaten yolks of 
6ggs, and last the whites of eggs beat- 
en stiff. Fit the paste to the pan, dust 
with flour, fill, and bake. 

Custard Pie. 

i cupful granulated sugar, 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 

2 cupfuls milk, 

3 eggs, 
Pinch salt. 

Add cornstarch to sugar, mix well, 
stir it into milk, boiling hot, and sim- 
mer five minutes. When cool, add 
eggs, well beaten, and salt. Line a 
deep pie pan with paste, dust with 
flour, and fill three quarters full with 
the mixture. Bake in a moderate 
oven until firm in the center. Grate 
nutmeg over the top, and serve cool. 

Crumb Lemon Pie. 

i cupful lemon juice, 
J cupful sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

3 eggs. 



Grated peel 1 lemon, 

1 cupful stale sponge-cake 
crimibs. 

Strain the lemon juice over the 
crumbs and soak half an hour, cream 
the butter, add half the sugar, then, 
one at a time, the yolks of eggs, then 
the balance of the sugar, with the 
lemon peel, and a pinch salt. With a 
fork mix the crumbs well with the 
lemon juice, and stir them into the 
butter and sugar, beating well, then 
add the whites of eggs beaten stiff. 
Bake, and serve like custard pie. 

lemon Pie. 

2 cupfuls boiling water, 
IJ cupfuls sugar, 

i cupful lemon juice, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 
Grated peel 1 lemon. 
Yolks 3 eggs. 

Mix the sugar and cornstarch well 
together, add them to the boiling wa- 
ter, and cook five minutes. Remove 
from the fire, add butter, lemon juice, 
peel, and lastly the eggs beaten very 
lightly. Line a deep pan with the 
paste, dust with flour, fill three 
fourths full with the mixture, and 
bake in a moderate oven till firm in 
the center. When cool, cover with a 
meringue made from whites of eggs. 

Vanilla Cream Pie. 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 
i cupful sugar, 

2 cupfuls boiling milk, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can VaniUa. 

Mix together cornstarch, sugar, and 
boiling milk. Cook five minutes, then 
add, stirring rapidly while adding, 
well-beaten eggs. Continue cooking 
until the egg is delicately cooked but 
not curdled, remove from the fire and 
stir butter into the mixture. When 
the butter is perfectly mixed with the 
custard, add the vanilla, and pour 
into a freshly baked tart shell. 
Orange cream pie and lemon pie may 



PUFF PASTE 



211 



be made by using orange or lemon 
extract in place of vanilla. — Emma P. 
EwiiTG. 

Lemon-and-Kaisin Pie. 

1 cupful chopped raisins. 

Juice and rind 1 lemon, 

1 cupful sugar, 

1 cupful water, 

1 teaspoonful cornstarch. 

Boil the mixture ten minutes; bake 
between double crusts. 

Green-Currant Pie. 

1 cupful green currants, 

i cupful sugar, 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Yolks 2 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 tablespoonful water. 

Mash currants and sugar, using a 
wooden potatq masher. Beat to a 
cream butter and sugar, then add in 
successive order the yolks of eggs, 
flour, water, and the mashed cur- 
rants. Line a deep pan with pastry, 
fill with the currant mixture, and 
bake. When done, cool slightly and 
cover with a meringue made of the 
whites of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, and vanilla to flavor. Bake in 
a slow oven imtil delicately brown. 

Apple Pie -with. Pineapple Flavor. 
3 tablespoonfuls grated pine- 
apple, 
1 tablespoonful water, 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Bake an apple pie in the usual way, 
but without sweetening. While it is 
baking, take the pineapple, water, 
and sugar, and simmer together till 
the fruit looks clear. When the pie 
is taken from the oven, remove the 
top crust, spread the pineapple over 
the apple, replace the cover, and set 
the pie away to cool. 

German Cherry Pie. 

Make a cherry pie as usual, but 
omit the upper crust. When nearly 
done, beat an egg light and add it to 



a scant i cupful cream and a table- 
spoonful sugar. Pour over the top 
of pie, return to the oven, and bake 
until the custard is set. 
Date Pie. 

1 pound dates, 

3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

2 cupfuls milk, 
1 cupful sugar. 

Soak dates in warm water over- 
night, then stew and sift the same as 
pumpkin. Into the pulp stir beaten 
eggs, cinnamon, milk, and sugar. 
Bake in one crust. 




a. Frying Basket ; b, Meringue Bag with Pastry 
Tubes; c, Vegetable Plane. 

Pig Pie. 

i pound figs, 

1 cupful water. 
Whites of 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 

Make a rich bottom crust. Chop 
figs fine, cook with cupful water. 
Sweeten and flavor with lemon. When 
the figs are smooth, put into the 
crust and bake. Take a meringue of 
whites of 2 eggs, beaten stiff, with 2 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, fla- 
vor with Mcllhenny's Mexican Vanil- 
la, and as soon as the crust is baked, 
spread this over the top; let brown 
a minute or two. 

Gooseberry Pie. 

Cut off the blossoms and stems of 
berries and fill a pie dish lined with 
plain paste, spreading over the top 



212 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



one third as much sugar as berries 
used. Slightly dredge with flour, and 
cover with a thin crust pricked with 
a fork. Bake half an hour. 

Prune Pie. 

J pound prunes, 
i cupful sugar, 

J cupful currant jelly or 1 tea- 
spoonful lemon juice. 

Stew prunes, remove stones, stir in 
sugar, currant jelly, or lemon juice. 
Dust flour over the fruit, and bake 
with an upper crust. 

Strawberry Pie. 

Line a pie plate with thin paste 
and set in the oven till nearly baked. 
Take from the oven and fill with sug- 
ared berries, dredge with flour, cover 
the top crisscross with narrow strips 
of paste, return to the oven, and fin- 
ish baking. 

Torto Frutas (Mexican). 

Line the sides of a baking dish 
with puff paste; cover the bottom 
with sliced pineapple; next a layer 
of sliced oranges, then sliced ba- 
nanas, then a few slices lemon. 
Sift sugar between each layer. Re- 
peat the layers until the dish is full, 
and cover the top layer with chopped 
nuts. Lay over the top narrow 
strips of the pastry, and bake slowly 
an hour. — Mat E. Southwokth. 

Cocoanut Fie. 

2 cupfuls hot milk, 
2 well-beaten eggs, 
J cupful sugar, 
1 cupful grated cocoanut, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Line a plate with paste, pour milk 
over eggs, set the bowl containing the 
mixture in boiling water, stir till 
thick, then take it out and stir in sug- 
ar, cocoanut, and vanilla. Fill the pie 
plate. Sprinkle top of pie with co- 
coanut, and bake till delicately 
brown. 



Orange Pie. 

1 cupful powdered sugar, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
J cupful cold milk. 

Grated rind and juice 1 orange, 

. 1 egg. 
2 oranges. 

Beat sugar and butter together till 
light. Moisten cornstarch with milk, 
cook and stir one minute, pour 
quickly on butter and sugar; add the 
rind and juice of orange; mix well- 
beaten egg; peel oranges, cut into 
slices, and cut each slice into quarters. 
Line plate with paste, and bake in a 
quick oven until done. Stir the 
orange slice j quickly into the custard 
mixture, fill the baked crust with this, 
and place in a quick oven a few min- 
utes to brown. While it is browning, 
beat the whites of 2 eggs until light, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sug- 
ar, and beat until stiff. Spread this 
over the pie; dust thickly with pow- 
dered sugar, and stand again in the 
oven until delicately brown. 

Dried-Apple Pie. 

Soak the apples, put in a brown 
earthen pot, cover with water; cover 
the pot, and bake four or five hours; 
sweeten with sugar or molasses the 
last half hour and mash well with a 
spoon; when the apples are thor- 
oughly cooked, flavor with lemon juice 
and add a little butter. The pie can 
be baked between two crusts, or 
bands of the paste can be placed over 
the top. 

Banana Pie. 

Yolks 2 eggs, 
i cupful sugar, 
2 large bananas. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and sugar 
to a cream. Peel and mash bananas, 
beat into the eggs together with mUk. 
Bake with one crust; when done, 
cover with a meringue made of the 
2 whites and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Serve cold. 



PUFF PASTE 



213 



Hhubarb Pie. 

Wash rhubarb, cut in half-inch 
pieces, put in deep pie plate having 
narrow strip of paste around the 
edge, sprinkle with sugar mixed with 
flour, allowing J cupful sugar and 3 
tablespoonfuls flour to every cupful 
rhubarb. Cover with paste, and bake 
like apple pie. All juicy fruit pies 
should be made in the same way. 

Chocolate Pie. 

2 cupfuls scalding mUk, 

3 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

i cupful Runkel's Chocolate, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
caH Vanilla. 

Majce a custard by pouring milk 
gradually upon eggs that have been 
well beaten and sugar. Return to 
fire, stir in chocolate, remove from 
fire, add vanilla, and pour the mix- 
ture into a pie plate lined with puff 
paste. Bake until set. Make a me- 
ringue of the whites of eggs and a 
tablespoonful powdered sugar, and 
spread on top of the pie. Brown 
delicately. 

Chocolate-Cream Pie. 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 
i cupful sugar, 

2 cupfuls scalding milk, 

3 eggs, 

IJ squares Runkel's Chocolate, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Melt the chocolate in a double 
boiler with the sugar, pour over it the 
scalding milk, add the cornstarch, 
and cook five minutes; then beat in 
the whipped eggs. Cook till the mix- 
ture is custardy, add a dash salt, also 



butter and vanilla, pour into a fresh- 
ly baked pie shell. Serve ice cold. If 
you wish to enrich this delicious pie, 
you may serve it with a meringue or 
a top of whipped cream. 

Kince-Meat. 

3J pounds round of beef, 

2 quarts chopped apples, 
i pint chopped suet, 

li pints raisins, 
1 pint currants, 
J pound citron, 
1 quart sugar, 
i pint molasses, 

3 pints cider, 

3 tablespoonfuls salt, 

4 tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 
1 tablespoonful allspice, 

1 tablespoonful mace, 
1 teaspoonful cloves, 
4 nutmegs grated, 
4 lemons. 

Put the beef in a small stewpan 
and cover with boiling water. Cook 
three hours, having the water only 
bubble at one side of the stewpan. 
Take from the fire and let the meat 
cool in the water, with the cover off 
the pan. When cold, remove fat and 
gristle, and chop the meat rather fine. 
Put it in a large bowl with all the 
other ingredients, except the cider, 
and mix thoroughly. Now, add the 
cider, and let the mixture stand in a 
cold place overnight. In the morn- 
ing turn the mince-meat into a porce- 
lain kettle and heat slowly to the 
boiling point; then simmer gently an 
hour. Put the mixture into stone 
jars and set away in a cold place; or 
it may be put in glass jars and sealed. 
It will keep for years in this way. 
When the pies are being made, 1 
tumbler jelly or marmalade to 3 or 
4 pies will be found a great improve- 
ment. — Maeia Parloa. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 



COOKIES, CAKES, AND DOUGHNUTS 



Uaple Hermits. 

I cupful maple sugar, 
i cupful butter, 
2i cupfuls flour, 

i egg. 

1 tablespoonful milk, 
J teaspoonful cloves, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
i teaspoonful soda, 
i cupful currants. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
gradually beat in the sugar and spices. 
Dissolve the soda in the milk, and 
beat this into the sugar and butter. 
Add the egg well beaten, finally the 
flour and currants. Roll out an inch 
thick, and cut in squares. Bake in a 
quick oven twelve minutes. 



Sugar Cookies. 


2 cupfuls sugar. 


1 cupful butter. 


3 eggs, 


3 cupfuls flour, 


1 teaspoonful Calumet 


powder. 


1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 



baking 



J teaspoonful cloves. 



Cream butter and sugar, beat in the 
whipped eggs and spices, add the flour 
gradually, working it in until the 
dough is stiff enough to roll. Sprinkle 
flour over a pastry board. Make a 
ball of the dough, and lay it on the 
board. Rub the rolling-pin with 
flour and roll out the dough into a 
sheet quarter of an inch thick. Cut 
in round cakes, sift granulated sugar 
over each, and bake quickly. 



314 



Ginger Snaps. 

2 cupfuls molasses, 

1 cupful sugar, 

1 cupful butter, 

5 cupfuls flour, j;v 

1 teaspoonfxil groiihrt ginger, 

1 teaspoonful allspice, 

V- 

Stir molasses, sugar, and butter to- 
gether in a bowl set in hot water till 
very light. Mix in spices and flour, 
and roll in a thin sheet. Cut into 
small cakes, and bake quickly. 

Chocolate Dominoes. 

i cupful pecan meat, 

i cupful English-walnut meat, 

4 cupful figs, 

i cupful dates. 

Grated rind 1 orange, 

1 tablespoonful orange juice, 

1 square Runkel's Chocolate. 

Mix the nuts, dates, and figs, and 
put them through a food chopper. 
Wet with the orange juice, mix in the 
grated rind, and roll in a ball. Lay 
it on the baking board, which has 
been covered with sifted confection- 
er's sugar, and roll half an inch 
thick. Cut into shapes the size of a 
domino, and spread with melted 
chocolate. On top lay little rounds 
cut from blanched almonds to imi- 
tate dominoes. 



Sour-Cream Cookies. — ■ V^^ 
1 cupful sour cream, ^ 
1 teaspoonful soda, 
1 cupful sugar. 
Dash salt. 
Flour, 
i teaspoopful nutmeg. 



K- 



COOKIES, CAKES, AND DOUGHNUTS 



215 



Mix the ingredients with enough 
flour to roll. Roll thin, and bake a 
nice brown. 

Oklahoma Kocks. 

2 cupfuls brown sugar, 
J cupful butter, 

3 eggs. 
Salt, 

1 pound chopped nuts, 

1 pound raisins, 

1 teaspoonful soda in J cupful 

boiling water, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
i teaspoonful cloves. 
Flour to make stiff. 

Mix the ingredients as given, and 
drop in spoonfuls on a greased baking 
pan. 

Egg .Cookies. 

1 cupful sour cream, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Dash salt, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
Flour enough to make soft dough. 

Mix the cream, sugar, and soda 
with flour, a dash salt and a little 
vanilla, then flour enough to roll thin 
easily without sticking. 

Boston Cookies. 

1 cupful butter, 

14 cupfuls sugar, 

3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful soda, 

IJ teaspoonfuls hot water, 

3J cupfuls flour, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

1 cupful chopped walnuts, 

J cupful currants, 

J cupful seeded chopped raisins. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar 
gradually and eggs well beaten. Add 
soda dissolved in water, half the flour 
mixed and sifted with salt and cinna- 
mon, then add nut meats, fruit, and 
remaining, flour. Drop by spoonfuls 
ari inch apart on a buttered sheet, and 



bake in a moderate oven. — Fannie 
M. Farmer. 

Christinas Fruit Cookies. 
J cupful lard, 
i cupful butter, 

1 cupful sugar, 

2 beaten eggs, 
i cupful milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

i teaspoonful soda, 
i cupful currants, 
I cupful raisins, 

3 cupfuls uncooked rolled oats. 

Cream the butter and lard, add the 
sugar, eggs, milk, flour, soda, cur- 
rants, raisins, and rolled oats. Mix 
thoroughly, drop a teaspoonful at a 
time in unbuttered pans, and bake in 
a slow oven. 

Chocolate Hearts. 

3 ounces Runkel's Chocolate, 
1 pound powdered sugar. 
Whites 3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Melt the chocolate by standing over 
hot water; add the sugar, and mix 
thoroughly; work to a stiff paste 
with the unbeaten whites of eggs, 
then add the vanilla. If the paste 
seems too soft, add more sugar. Break 
off in small pieces and roll a quarter 
of an inch thick, sprinkling the board 
and paste with granulated sugar in- 
stead of flour. Cut with a heart- 
shaped cake cutter, and place on 
pans oiled just enough to prevent 
sticking. Bake in a moderate oven. 
When done, they will feel firm to the 
touch, a solid crust having formed 
over the top. They should be very 
light, and will loosen easily from the 
pan after being allowed to stand a 
moment to cool. 

Chocolate Cookies. 
1 cupful butter, 

1 cupful brown sugar, 

2 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
J teaspoonful cloves, 



216 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



1 cupful almonds cut fine, with- 
out blanching, 

1 cupful currants cleaned and 
dried), 

2 ounces Runkel's Chocolate, 
i cupful milk, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder. 
Flour. 

Mix butter, sugar, eggs, cinnamon, 
cloves, almonds, currants, the choco- 
late dissolved in i cupful milk, and 
flour enough to roll; before adding 
the flour, put in baking powder. Mix 
in the order given; roll out about an 
eighth of an inch thick; shape with 
cake cutter, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Make a thick sirup of J cupful 
each granulated sugar and water 
boiled together, and brush the cakes 
with this sirup as soon as they are 
taken from the oven. 

Springerlein (German recipe). 
1 cupful powdered sugar, 
4 eggs. 

Grated rind 1 lemon, 
4 cupfuls flour, 

i teaspoonful Calimiet baking 
powder. 

Beat the eggs thoroughly with the 
sugar, add the rind of lemon, flour, 
and baking powder sifted with the 
flour, and mix quickly into loaf shape 
without much handling. Set in a cool 
place two hours. Flour a baking 
board, roll out dough to quarter of 
an inch thick, dust the mold with 
flour, press the springerlein on it 
tightly but firmly, then turn it over 
and carefully remove the cakes. Cut 
off surplus dough, put in the remain- 
der, and mold more. Use as little 
flour as possible in rolling out. Put 
a cloth on the table, sprinkle it with 
aniseed, lay the cakes on it, and 
stand twelve hours in a cool room. 
Bake in buttered pans. 

One, Two, Three, Four Cookies. 

1 cupful butter, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

3 cupfuls flour. 



4 eggs, 

IJ teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
3 tablespoonfuls caraway seed. 

Cream the butter and add half the 
sugar. Beat the yolks, add the re- 
maining half of the sugar, and beat 
with the butter, then add the beaten 
whites. Mix the soda, cream of tar- 
tar, spice, and salt with the flour, and 
stir into the butter mixture. Take a 
teaspoonful dough, make into a ball 
with floured hands, place the balls in 
a pan, press or flatten into a round 
cake, and bake ten minutes. 

Cream Cakes. 

1 cupful hot water, 
i teaspoonful salt, 
i cupful butter, 
IJ cupfuls flour, 

5 eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
separately. 

Boil the water, salt, and butter. 
When boiling, add the flour, and stir 
well five minutes; when cool, add the 
eggs. This is such a stiff mixture, 
many find it easier to mix with the 
hand, and some prefer to add the 
eggs whole, 1 at a time. When well 
mixed, drop from a tablespoonful on 
a buttered baking pan, some distance 
apart. Bake twenty to thirty min- 
utes, or till brown and well puffed. 
Split when cool, and fill with cream. 

Eclairs. — Bake the cream-csdse mix- 
ture in pieces four inches long and 
one and a half wide. When cool, 
split and fill with cream. Ice with 
chocolate or vanilla frosting. 

Cream for Cream Cakes and Eclairs. 

1 pint boiled milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 

3 eggs 'weU beerten, 
I cupful sugar, 

1 saltspoonful salt or 1 teaspoon- 
ful butter. 

Wet the cornstarch in fold milk, 
and cook in the boiling milk ten min- 



COOKIES, CAKES, AND DOUGHNUTS 



217 



utes. Beat the eggs, and add the 
sugar and the thickened milk. Cook 
in a double boiler five minutes. Add 
the salt or butter, and when cool, fla- 
vor with lemon, vanilla, or almond. 

Chocolate dingers. 
3 eggs, 

1 cupful sugar, 
i cupfid boiling water, 
1 cupful flour. 

(For Icing.) 

3 cupfuls granulated sugar, 
1 cupful water, 
3 ounces Runkel's Chocolate, 
i teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

Beat the yolks of eggs and sugar 
until light, add in succession the 
flour, water, and whites beaten until 
stiff. Bake in moderate oven, in an 
oblong sheet, about half an inch 
thick; cut, when done, into strips 
about three and a half inches wide. 

To make the icing, boil the sugar 
and water until it spins a thread, 
then pour in a thin stream over the 
chocolate, which should be melted by 
standing over hot water; mix well 
and flavor with vanilla. Let the mix- 
ture cool slightly, beat with a wooden 
spoon until it grains, then stand in a 
pan of boiling water and stir con- 
stantly untU it melts. Keep in hot 
water while coating the cakes. Dip 
each cake in the melted mixture, then 
in a saucer containing granulated 
sugar. Place, without touching each 
other, on a clean plate. If the choco- 
late mixture gets too thick, add from 
time to time a few drops hot water, 
keeping it melted during the process. 

Nun's Gems. 

1 cupful sugar, 
1 cupful butter, 
5 eggs, 

J teaspoonful cinnamon, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
Grated rind 1 lemon, 
3 cupfuls flour, 



1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 

powder, 
1 cupful grated cocoanut. 

Cream the butter and sugar, mix 
the beaten yolks of eggs, and add the 
lemon, cinnamon, and vanilla. Sift 
the flour and baking powder, mix 
with the batter, then fold in the co- 
coanut, and the whites of eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Bake half 
an hour in gem pans; when cool, dip 
each cake in white or chocolate frost- 
ing. 

Uacaroons. 

IJ cupfuls almond paste. 
Whites 2 eggs, 

1 cupful powdered sugar. 

Mix the paste and sugar, then stir 
in the whites of eggs, which have been 
beaten stiff. Work with a spoon un- 
til the mixture is thoroughly blended, 
drop small teaspoonful paste into a 
pan which has been lined with but- 
tered paper, put half a peanut in the 
center of each, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven until delicately brown. Lift 
the pan from the oven, take out the 
paper with the macaroons, lay for a 
minute on a damp towel, then with a 
palette knife you can slip each one 
off. 

Cinnamon Strips. 

2 cupfuls brown sugar, 
4 eggs, 

J cupful shredded almonds. 

Grated peel 1 lemon, 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful cloves, 

4 cupfuls flour. 

Cream the sugar and eggs till they 
are a light froth, add the shredded 
almonds, lemon peel, and spices, sift 
in the flour, mix to a stiff batter, roll 
out on a floured baking board, cut 
into long strips, an,d bake until brown. 

Chocolate Strips. 
J cupful butter, 
1 cupful sugar, 
$ eggs, 



218 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



IJ squares Runkel's Chocolate, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
IJ cupfuls flour. 

Cream the butter, sugar, and eggs, 
add the chocolate and vanilla, then the 
flour, beat thoroughly, pour into a, 
shallow pan in a thin layer. Bake 
quickly, brush with white of egg, and 
dust with powdered sugar; while hot, 
cut into narrow strips. 



1 cupful currants, 
1 cupful raisins, 
1 teaspoonful cloves, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
1 nutmeg. 

Soak apples in as little water as 
possible over night; in the morning 
chop fine and boil half an hour in 
molasses. When cold, add butter, sug- 
ar and milk dissolved with soda, eggs, 
flour, fruit, and spices. Bake in a 
slow oven. 



CAKES MADE rBOM SOVB MILE 

Mrs. Moherly's Sour-Cream Cake. 
1 cupful sugar, 
3 eggs, 

1 cupful sour cream, 
i teaspoonful soda, 
3 cupfuls flour, 

IJ teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful lemon extract. 

Beat sugar, egg yolks, and cream 
very light; sift in flour, soda, and bak- 
ing powder. Flavor, add whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth in a, loaf 
cake. 

Cocoa Cake. 

J cupful butter, 

3 cupfuls coffee sugar, 

3 eggs, 

1 cupful sour milk, 

1 scant teaspoonful Calumet beik- 

ing soda, 
3 cupfuls flour, 
J cupful Runkel's Cocoa. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream,, then add the other ingredients. 
Bake in a moderate oven. Cover with 
chocolate icing. 

Dried-Apple Cake. 

3 cupfuls molasses, 

3 cupfuls dried apples, 
1 cupful butter, 

1 cupful sugar, 
1 cupful sour milk, 
1 teaspoonful soda, 

4 eggs, 

4 cupfuls flour. 



Spice Cake. 

1 cupful sugar, 

3 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
J cupful sour milk, 

i cupful strong coffee, 

1 teaspoonful soda, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 

powder, 
3i cupfuls flour, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Cream sugar and butter, and add 
the milk, coffee, soda, baking pow- 
der, flour, spice, cinnamon, and nut- 
meg. Bake in a medium-sized pan, 
and frost with powdered sugar mixed 
with cream. 

Devil's Cake. 

3 cupfuls dark-brown sugar, 

i cupful butter, 

J cupful sour milk, 

i teaspoonful soda, 

3 cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 

powder, 
3 eggs, 

J cupful Runkel's Chocolate, 
ground. 

Beat the butter and sugar until 
smooth. Add the milk, soda dissolved 
in a little warm water, then the flour, 
which has been sifted twice vpith the 
baking powder. Add the eggs well 
beaten. Stir thoroughly and add the 
chocolate. This makes three good- 
sized layers. Filling — 3 cupfuls 
brown sugar, J cupful butter, J cup- 



COOKIES, CAKES, AND DOUGHNUTS 



219 



ful sweet milk. Boil until it will 
thread, and spread between layers. If 
a very large cake is desired, two white 
layers may be added flavored with 
orange. 

Training-Day Ginger Cake. 
i cupful butter, 
1 cupful granulated sugar, 

1 egg. 

1 cupful New Orleans molasses, 

1 cupful sour milk, 

1 teaspoonful soda, 

3 cupfuls pastry flour, 
1 tablespoonful ginger. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the 
sugar and egg well beaten, the mo- 
lasses, then the sour milk, to which 
the soda has been added and both 
stirred until the milk foams and there 
are no lumps remaining. Sift the 
flour and ginger, beat thoroughly, and 
turn into a shallow baking pan. Bake 
in a moderate oven; when it is well 
done, remove from the oven and 
spread with a thick layer of raw mo- 
lasses. Return to the oven for a 
short time till the coating of the mo- 
lasses has set, when the cake may be 
cut into squares. 

Crnml} Gingerbread. 
1 teaspoonful soda, 

4 cupfuls flour, 

1 cupful butter, 

2 cjipfuls sugar, 

1 cupful sour milk, "^ 

3 eggs, 

i grated nutmeg, 

i teaspoonful cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 

Rub the flour and butter together 
until they are reduced to crumbs, as 
flour and lard are worked together 
for pie crust; then add the sugar and 
stir this in till the mixture is once 
more crumbly. Measure out 3 cup- 
fuls crumbs, and set away in a cold 
place until the batter is made. Into 
what remains of the crumbs stir in 
two weU-beaten eggs, and add the 
sour milk and soda. When the soda 
is dissolved and the milk foams, turn 



it into the mixing bowl with the rest. 
Add to the batter the nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, and ginger. Butter a dripping 
pan and measure out 1 cupful crumbs 
that was set aside; spread evenly on 
the bottom of* the pan, pour the bat- 
ter over them as evenly as possible; 
spread the rest of the crumbs on top, 
and bake in a moderately hot oven; 
when done, cut into squares, and 
keep in a closely covered jar. 

Aunt Dinah's Gake. 

J cupfu} butter, 

i cupful sugar, 

4 cupful molasses, 

3 cupfuls flour, 

i cupful sour milk, 

J teaspoonful ginger, 

J teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

i teaspoonful soda, 

J nutmeg grated. 

Juice and rind J lemon, 

1 egg- 
Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, add the spices, lemon, and mo- 
lasses. Dissolve liie soda in 1 table- 
spoonful cold water, and stir into the 
sour milk. Add this and the egg well 
beaten, then the flour, and beat brisk- 
ly. Pour into a weU-buttered pan, 
and bake in a moderate oven fifty 
minutes. This cake will keep moist 
some time. One half cupful stoned 
raisins and J cupful currants may be 
stirred lightly into the batter j ust be- 
fore it is put in the pan, if you wish 
a fruit cake. 

Blackberry-Jam Cake. 
i cupful butter, 
§ cupful sugar, 

1 cupful flour, 

§ cupful stoned raisins, 
g cupful blackberry jam, 

2 tablespoonfuls sour cream or 
milk, 

i teaspoonful soda, 
J nutmeg grated, 

3 eggs. 

Beat the butter to a cream, then 
beat in the sugar. When very light. 



220 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



beat in the jam and nutmeg. Dis- 
solve the soda in 1 tablespoonful cold 
water, and add it to the sour cream. 
Add this and the egg well beaten to 
the other ingredients. Now add the 
flour and beat for half a minute. 
Sprinkle a tablespoonful flour over 
the raisins, and stir them in lightly. 
Pour the batter into a well-buttei'ed 
pan, and bake fifty minutes. This 




a, Dover Egg-beater; b, Grater; c. Omelet Pan. 

makes one small loaf. This cake may 
be put away to be used as a pudding 
when convenient. Steam it an hour, 
and serve with a wine sauce. It is 
almost as good as a, plum pudding. 

Maple-Sugar Gingerbread. 
1 egg, 

1 cupful thick maple sirup, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

i cupful sour milk, 
J cupful butter, 
i teaspoonful ginger, 
i teaspoonful soda, 
i teaspoonful salt. 
Rind and juice J lemon. 

Beat the butter to a. cream, and 
add the sirup and flavoring. Dissolve 
the soda in 1 tablespoonful cold water 
and stir into the sour milk. Add this 



and the egg well beaten to the other 
ingredients, then the flour. Beat well; 
pour into a buttered pan. This quan- 
tity will make one small loaf or a 
thin sheet. If baked in a loaf, leave 
in oven fifty minutes; if in a sheet, 
twenty-five minutes. — Miss Fabloa. 

Holiday Cake. 

1 cupful butter, 

1 cupful sugar, 

1 cupful molasses, 

J teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful mixed spices, 

1 egg, 

1 cupful sour milk, 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Flour, 

1 cupful raisins and currants. 

Small quantity citron. 

Mix together the butter, sugar, mo- 
lasses, salt, spices, and egg; beat well, 
then add the sour milk with the soda 
stirred in, and flour enough to make 
quite thick; add the raisins, currants, 
and citron. This makes two medium 
loaves, and will keep for weeks. 

Uarble Layer Cake. 

J cake Runkel's Chocolate, 
1 teaspoonful baking soda, 
i cupful warm water, 

3 cupfuls maple sugar, 
S eggs, 

4 cupful butter, 

1 cupful sour milk, 
2J cupfuls flour. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, 
dissolve the soda in the warm water; 
beat the butter to a cream. Add the 
eggs beaten without separating, and 
beat in gradually the sugar — ^beat for 
at least ten minutes. Pour the soda 
and water in the sour milk; add this 
with the melted chocolate to the egg 
mixture; now stir jn the flour. Beat 
and bake in three layers. When cold, 
put together with maple or caramel 
filling. 



CHAPTER XXXIV 



CAKE 



If one has mastered the art of 
measuring, mixing, and baking cake, 
there are only four cakes you have 
to know: sponge, butter, fruit, and 
raised cake. 

Every other cake among a hundred 
recipes belongs to one of these classes; 
there is only a slight variation In its 
being richer or plainer, differently fla- 
vored, or differently named. When 
children are taught cake making in 
a cooking school, the teacher tabulates 
for them on a blackboard quantities 
and directions, something after the 
fashion illustrated here: 



One of the most important things 
to learn about cake making is to have 
all the utensils and ingredients on 
hand before you begin work. The 
cake process will not wait, if you have 
to search for things. A half-beaten 
batter will fall flat before you are 
ready to attend to it again. Make up 
the fire so the oven will carry you 
through the baking process for at 
least an hour. Have the flour sifted, 
pans greased and floured, the eggs 
separated, and everything ready to 
work with. Let us think of the uten- 
sUs which to-day an up-to-date cook- 



Name op 
Caeb. 


But- 
ter. 


Sugar, 


Eggs. 


Milk. 


Flour 


Soda or 
Baking 
Powder 


Flavor- 
ing. 


Mo- 
lasses. 


Fruit. 


Loaf or Lay- 




















er Butter 


i cup- 


2 cup- 


4 


1 cup- 


3i cup- 


5 teaspoon- 


1 teaspoon- 






Cake 


ful. 


fuls. 




ful. 


' fuls. 


fuls baking 
powder. 


ful vanilla. 






Sponge Cake 




'IT 


4 




1 cup- 
ful. 




1 table- 
spoonful 




























lemon juice 






Dark Fruit 


i cup- 


i cup- 


2 


} cup- 


2 cup- 


i teaspoon- 


1 teaspoon- 


i cup- 


i cupful 


Cake 


ful. 


ful, 
brown 
sugar. 




ful. 


tuls. 


ful soda. 


ful cinna- 
mon; J tea- 
spoonful 
all-spice; 


ful. 


raisins: 
i cupful 
currants; 


















i cupful 
















i teaspoon- 




citron. 
















ful mace; 




















i teaspoon- 




















ful cloves; 




















J teaspoon- 




















ful lemon 


















extract. 







It seems such an excellent method, 
that I printed for my own kitchen a, 
large card holding our favorite rec- 
ipes, and it has saved maids, as well 
as myself, much time in looking up 
recipes. I left some space at the 
bottom, and occasionally add to it 
new and good ones. 



ing school demands for cake making. 
There is a bowl for beating the bat- 
ter. I prefer the white enamel bowl 
to one made of earthenware, partly 
because it is light enough to handle 
easily, then it is unbreakable, and it 
can be kept beautifully clean. This 
bowl must be deep and narrow enough 



m 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



at the bottom to allow the spoon to 
turn over the ingredients and do its 
work thoroughly. The ideal cake- 
mixing spoon is a wooden one with a 
slitted bowl, just long enough for the 
top of the handle to reach your el- 
bow. The old-fashioned spoon col- 
lects butter and sugar in a lump, 
while a slitted spoon constantly 
drives the creamed mass through it, 
and that, of course, makes it lighter. 
The slitted spoon beats without any 
noise, and leaves no black marks on 
the bowl. Then for the other utensils, 
you need a good flour sifter, cake 
pans which have been used long 
enough to become rather black — for 
new tin will never make a good crust 
— two glass measuring cups, a small 
bowl, a Dover egg beater with which to 
beat the yolks of eggs, a large pliable 
Teller knife, a flat wire egg whipper, 
which is called the Daisy beater, and 
a wire cake cooler, with feet which 
raise it high enough for the air to cir- 
culate around the cake and carry off 
the steam. 

The only way always to have a 
good cake is to stick to the level 
measurements, as is taught to-day in 
all the leading cooking schools. 
Flour, sugar, butter, indeed every in- 
gredient, is leveled off perfectly flat 
with the Teller knife. Grease your 
cake tin with lard or olive oil, using 
a butter brush (butter is not satis- 
factory for this, as it blackens the 
crust), then sprinkle flour inside the 
tin. Jar the pan lightly on the ta- 
ble, tipping it around so the flour will 
adhere to the greased surface. This 
gives a perfectly even surface to the 
bottom of the cake. If you wish to 
line the tin with paper, use parch- 
ment paper, which comes by the roll. 
Lay the tin upon it, top down, mark 
around with a pencil, then cut it an 
inch or two large^ Fringe the paper 
with a scissors down to the pencil 
line, and slip into a greased pan. Pa- 
per is frequently used with a fruit 
cake, because that cake burns more 
readily than any other. By using it 
for other cakes, you can get a nice, 
smooth surface for icing. 



Before we begin the process of 
cake mixing, let us see what makes a 
cake light. Compared with the mak- 
ing of bread, cake raising is a swift 
process. It is brought about partly 
by blending an acid with an alkali. 
Air bubbles are created that make the 
mixture frothy before it is poured 
into the pans; heat begins to expand 
the bubbles and later to set them. 
Eggs thoroughly well beaten add 
further to the lightness of cake, for 
air is entangled liberally when the 
albumen is whipped. 

According to what other ingre- 
dients are used in a cake, we add bak- 
ing powder, soda, and cream of tar- 
tar, or soda alone for the raising 
power. Baking powder is simply a 
scientific mixture of cream of tartar 
and soda with the addition of a little 
flour to preserve it from getting 
lumpy. It must always be used with 
sweet milk. The same combination, 
of course, is made with cream of tar- 
tar and soda, the formula general- 
ly given in older cookbooks. Soda 
alone is used when there is some 
powerful acid in the liquid, such as 
sour milk or molasses. If one has 
nothing but sweet milk on hand and 
no cream of tartar, the soda will 
do its work almost as well by add- 
ing a, small quantity of vinegar or 
lemon juice. 

It is never economy to use poor in- 
gredients in cake. Strong butter and 
eggs that are not absolutely fresh 
cannot have their flavor concealed by 
the most liberal addition of vanilla. 
Also, when you possibly can, use pas- 
try flour. You can easily tell the dif- 
ference between it and the flour with 
which we make bread, by gathering 
up a handful. It will stick togfether 
in a lump within your hand, while 
bread flour falls apart. Bread flour 
may be used in a contingency, but af- 
ter measuring it, take out 2 level ta- 
blespoonfuls from each cupful as your 
batter is liable to be too thick, and 
the cake may crack as soon as it be- 
gins to crust. 

Now for the simplest form of cake 
— a good sponge cake. Separate the 



CAKE 



223 



eggs, drop the yolks into a mixing 
bowl, and the whites upon a large 
platter. If the eggs have been kept 
in a refrigerator or cold pantry, they 
will froth much more quickly. With 
the wooden spoon, beat the yolks 
steadily till they begin to grow thick 
and lemon-colored, adding gradually 
1 cupful sugar. Put in 1 tablespoon- 
ful lemon juice and the grated rind 
of i lemon, then 1 cupful sifted flour 
with J teaspoonful salt in it. This 
amount of salt ought to be added to 
every cake. It overcomes the flat 
taste which it would otherwise have. 
Beat the batter thoroughly, till it is 
bubbly and well mixed. If an assist- 
ant, meantime, has been whipping the 
whites of eggs for you, so much the 
better. A Dover egg beater does not 
begin to achieve the amount of frothy 
white you can get by whipping with 
d Daisy egg beater. Tip the platter 
slightly downward as it begins to 
froth. Swing the arm upward and 
downward; turn over the mass of 
froth, which wiU grow larger every 
second. When the latter is fairly 
heaped and every foam speck has a 
dry appearance, it is ready to add to 
the batter. Scrape it with a Teller 
knife and with this useful utensil, cut 
the froth in, across this way and that, 
lifting it lightly, until it is thorough- 
ly blended and looks like delicate 
foam. If it should be beaten at this 
point, you will simply destroy all the 
bubbles of albi^men you achieved by 
the whipping process. Scrape every 
particle of cake batter with the knife 
cleanly from the bowl into a cake pan, 
preferably a deep one. Let the mix- 
ture rise a little higher on the sides 
than in the middle, then set to bake 
in a slow oven. 

The first process in baking is to get 
a cake thoroughly heated through, 
during which time it ought to rise 
steadily without crusting. When it 
has been half an hour in the oven, the 
rising process should have finished 
and a delicate crust have begun to 
form on top. The last half hour is 
given to its becoming solid, brown, 
and crusty. 



I'udge Cake. 

(An original recipe from the Copper 
Kettle Lunch Room at Smith Col- 
lege.) 

1 cupful sugar, 
i cupful butter, 
3 eggs, 

i cupful milk, 
IJ cupfuls flour, 

3J teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

2 ounces melted chocolate. 

Cream together the butter and sug- 
ar, add the beaten yolks of eggs, then 
the mUk and flour sifted with the 
baking powder. Beat well, add 
chocolate and the whites of eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Bake in a 
shallow pan in a moderate oven. 
When cool, pour over it a fudge 
frosting and mark in squares before 
the frosting has hardened. 

Fudge Frosting. 

3 cupfuls sugar, 
i cupful milk, 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

f cupful Runkel's Chocolate, 
grated, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

1 cupful chopped walnuts. 

Put the sugar, milk, butter, and 
chocolate into a granite saucepan and 
stir occasionally \ till the mixture 
reaches the boiling point. Boil with- 
out stirring eight minutes, then take 
from the fire and beat till creamy. 
At this point add the nuts and va- 
nilla, then pour over the cake. This 
recipe makes a delicious fudge. 

Feather Cake. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 cupful sugar, 
li cupfuls flour, 

3J teaspoonfuls baking powder, 

2 eggs, 

i cupful milk, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Put butter in mixing bowl, work it 
with a spoon till creamy, add sugar 
gradually, and continue creaming. 
Sift flour and baking powder to- 
gether; separate yolks of eggs from 
whites, beat yolks till light-colored 
and thick, then add milk and egg 
mixture to creamed butter and sugar, 
alternately with flour. Add flavoring, 
stir and beat well; lastly add whites 
of eggs beaten stiff. Put in a shal- 
low greased and floured pan, or one 
lined with buttered paper. Bake 
about thirty minutes or till cake 
shrinks from the pan, and does not 
stick when tried with a straw. The 
feather cake may be varied and made 
into a number of different kinds, for 
instance : 

Spice Cake. — Before adding the 
beaten whites, put in i cupful seeded 
raisins that have been washed, dried, 
cut in halves, and rolled in a. little of 
the flour reserved for the purpose. 
Flavor with J teaspoonful ground 
cloves, i teaspoonful cinnamon, and 
a grating nutmeg instead of vanilla. 

Karble Cake. — Color half the 
feather-cake mixture with i table- 
spoonful Runkel's Chocolate melted. 
Mix the white and dark part when 
putting it in the pan, so they will be 
well mingled though distinct. 

Bibbon Cake. — To one third the 
feather-cake mixture add i teaspoon- 
ful mixed spi.ces and J cupful seeded 
raisins cut in pieces. Bake in a shal- 
low pan, and the rerhainder in two 
other shallow pans. When done, put 
the fruit cake between the others 
with a layer of jelly or frosting be- 
tween. 

Layer Cake. — Bake feather-cake 
mixture in round tins and put a 
cream, chocolate, or other filling be- 
tween. 

Nursery Cake. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
I cupful sugar, 
1 egg, 

1 cupful cold water, 

2 cupfuls flour. 



4 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Cream the butter, add half the sug- 
ar, and continue creaming. Beat egg 
till light and add with the water and 
rest of the sugar to the creamed but- 
ter. Add flour mixed with baking 
powder. Flavor, beat well, and bake 
in a shallow pan about half an hour. 



Surprise Cake. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 egg, 

1 cupful milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

4 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Mix carefully, and bake like nur- 
sery cake. 

7Iain Wedding Cake. 

i cupful butter, 

IJ cupfuls sugar. 

Yolks 3 eggs, 

i cupful milk, 

2J cupfuls flour, 

3J teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
J teaspoonful ground cloves, 
i teaspoonful grated nutmeg, 
J teaspoonful powdered mace, 
i cupful seeded raisins washed, 

dried, and cut in pieces, 
I cupful currants washed, ^nd 

dried, 
i pound citron cut in small, thin 

pieces. 
Whites 3 eggs. 

Roll fruit in J cupful flour, and sift 
the rest with baking powder and 
spices. Mix like feather cake, adding 
the floured fruit just before tlie 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
a thick loaf, in a moderate oven. 
Cover with a plain, wliite icing. 



CAKE 



225 



Lemon Sponge Cake. 
Yolks 3 eggs, 
1 cupful sugar, 
I cupful hot water, 
1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 
Grated rind 1 lemon, 
1 cupful flour, 
IJ teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
i teaspoonful salt. 
Whites 2 eggs. 

Beat yolks till light-colored and 
thick, add half the sugar gradually, 
and continue beating; then the hot 
water, the. rest of the sugar, the lemon 
juice and rind. Beat well, add flour, 
mixed with baking powder and salt; 
lastly cut and fold in the stiffly beat- 
en whites of eggs. Put in shallow 
greased and floured pan, and bake 
in a moderately hot oven twenty-five 
minutes. 

Chocolate Cake. 

1 cupful sugar, 
i cupful butter, 

2 eggs, 

i cupful milk, 

IJ cupfuls flour, 

2J teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 
, 2 squares Rimkel's Chocolate, 

J teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

Dash salt. 

Beat the butter and sugar together 
to a cream, add the yolks of eggs 
which have been well beaten, then the 
milk, the flour sifted with the baking 
powder and salt. Beat till light and 
frothy, add the vanilla and melted 
chocolate, last the whites of eggs 
whipped stifl'. Bake in a long narrow 
pan, and when cool, cover with a 
white frosting. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. 

J cupfuls sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 egg. 

i cupful milk, 

IJ cupfuls flour. 



3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Dash salt, 

i teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Cream the butter arid sugar to- 
gether, add the egg beaten to a froth, 
then the milk, flour sifted with bak- 
ing powder, and vanilla. Bake in one 
deep layer cake tin; when the cake is 
cool, split in two shortcake fashion, 
and cover the smooth top of each 
layer with a chocolate frosting. 



Cocoa Sponge. 

i cupful butter, 

1 cupful sugar, 

3 eggs, 

i cupful Runkel's Cocoa, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
i teaspoonftil cloves, 

J cupful milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat 
in the cocoa, the yolks of eggs well 
beaten, cinnamon, cloves, and milk, 
then the flour sifted with the baking 
powder; last add the whites of eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Devil's Tood. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
J cupful butter, 

4 eggs, 

1 cupful milk, 
2J cupfuls flour, 

i teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

2 squares Runkel's Chocolate, 

J teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, add the well-beaten yolks of 
eggs, then alternately mix with milk 
and flour sifted with the baking pow- 
der, stir in the melted chocolate and 
vanilla, then the whites of eggs, whip 
to a dry froth. Bake fifty minutes 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



in a long narrow pan. Cover with a 
boiled white icing. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Cake. 

Use the recipe given either for 
chocolate cafe, devil's food, or cocoa 
sponge, and bake in a shallow pan, 
letting the batter half fiU. It ought 
to rise to the top of the pan. As 
soon as the hot cake is taken from 
the oven, turn it out and cov^r the 
top with marshmallows, which have 
been pulled apart; the soft inside of 
the sweetmeats will run together into 
a sort of frosting. When cool, pour 
over them a frosting made of Run- 
kel's Sweet Chocolate melted over hot 
water. 



Spanish Cake. 

1 cupful sugar, 
J cupful butter, 

2 eggs, 

J cupful milk. 
If cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calimiet baking 
powder. 

Dash salt, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat 
in the yolks of eggs, then the flour, 
with which has been sifted cinnamon, 
salt, and baking powder, alternating 
with it the milk; the whites of eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth may be added 
the last thing. Bake in a large shal- 
low pan and cover the top with cara- 
mel frosting. 

CofFee Cake. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

1 cupful butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls molasses, 
IJ cupfuls cold coffee, 

3i cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

i teaspoonful cloves, 

J teaspoonful nutmeg, 

i teaspoonful allspice, 

S teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
I cupful raisins, 



i cupful currants, 
J cupful citron, 
5 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the molasses and well-beaten yolks of 
eggs, then sift together the flour, 
spices, and baking powder. Beat in 
alternately with the coffee. Dredge 
the fruit with flour, stir it in, then 
the whites of eggs. Pour into deep 
cake tins and bake slowly in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Foiind Cake. 

3 cupfuls butter, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
10 eggs, 

4 cupfuls flour, 

§ teaspoonful mace, 

3 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the yolks of eggs beaten till thick, 
then the milk, flour, and whites of 
eggs. Pour into a square tin and 
bake an hour. 

Angel Cake. 

1 cupful whites of eggs. 
Dash salt, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 teaspoonful almond extract, 
i teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
1 cupful flour, 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

Whip the whites of eggs on a large 
platter until they become a heap of 
dry froth. Then blend the sugar 
with them very carefully so the bub- 
bles will not break. Sift the flour 
and cream of tartar three times and 
add to the egg mixture, stirring as 
little as possible, so as to keep it very 
frothy. Add the flavoring, pour into 
an unbuttered pan with a center tube, 
and bake forty minutes in a moder- 
ate oven. Do not move the cake un- 
til you are ready to take it from the 
oven, as it is very easy to make it fall. 
Invert the pan on a cake cooler and 
brush the cake with the white of egg 
beaten with a few tablespoonfuls 



CAKE 



m 



powdered sugar. Allow this covering 
to harden before you frost it. 

Sunshine Cake. 
Yolks 5 eggs, 
1 cupful sugar, 
Dash salt, 
I cupful flour, 

J teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
Whites 7 eggs, 
1 lump sugar, 
1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 
1 tablespoonful orange juice. 

Beat the yolks of eggs till thick 
and lemon-colored, and add the sug- 
ar and flour, sifted with the cream of 
tartar and salt. Rub the lump of 
sugar over the rind of lemon, then 
dissolve it in the fruit juice; this con- 
stitutes the flavoring which may be 
stirred in and followed by the whites 
of eggs whipped to a dry froth. Bake 
the cake in a deep pan. 

New England Raspberry Cake. 
J cupful butter, 

1 cupful sugar. 
Yolks 2 eggs, 

§ cupful milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 
powder. 

This old-fashioned, delicious cake 
is baked in layers. Mix the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the yolks 
of eggs well beaten and the milk ; then 
stir in the flour, in which has been 
sifted the baking powder. Bake in 
jelly-cake pans. For the filling, 
crush slightly 1 quart raspberries, 
add whites 3 eggs, 1 cupful pow- 
dered sugar, and a few drops lemon 
juice. Whip until thick; spread be- 
tween layers and over the top. To be 
eaten with cream. 

Lady Baltimore Cake. 

1 cupful butter, 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar, 
1 cupful milk, 

Juice 1 lemon. 
Whites 6 eggs. 



4 cupfuls flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a 
cream, and add the milk; when well 
mixed, stir in the juice of the lemon 
and whip very light; stir in alter- 
nately the stiffened whites of eggs and 
flour, sifted with the baking powder. 
Bake in jelly-tins. When cold, put 
together with this filling, and frost 
the top: Boil 3 cupfuls granulated 
sugar with a J cupful water until a 
drop hanging from the tip of a 
spoon threads in the air. Pour while 
hot over the whites 3 eggs whipped 
to a standing froth. Whip until you 
have a thick cream and stir in 
gradually a cupful each minced rai- 
sins and chopped pecans with S figs 
that have been soaked soft in luke- 
warm water, then dried and minced. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

1 cupful sugar, 
i cupful butter, 
f cupful milk, 

3 eggs, 

2J cupfuls flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

1 grated cocoanut. 

Cream the sugar and butter; take 
the milk of the cocoanut and, if not 
enough, add sweet milk to make | 
cupful. Add the beaten yolks, then 
floiir and baking powder sifted, then 
beaten whites, and lastly the grated 
cocoanut, reserving some for the frost- 
ing of the loaf. This is to be baked 
in a deep tin. 

Orange Cake. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
J cupful butter, 

J cupful cold water, 

Yolks 5 eggs, 

2J cupfuls flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Juice and rind 1 orange. 

Whites 3 eggs. 

Bake in layers; use boiled icing 
flavored with orange juice. 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Gingerbread with Chocolate Glaze. 
I cupful butter, 
1 cupful sugar, 
3 cupfuls flour, 
1 cupful dark molasses, 
1 cupful black coffee, 
1 teaspoonful ginger, 
i teaspoonful cloves, 

1 teaspoonfiil bicarbonate of 
soda, 

3 eggs. 

Mix the spices with the molasses. 
Dissolve the soda in a little boiling 
water and add to the coffee. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add the eggs, 
one at a time, and beat each one well. 
Add the molasses, then the coffee and 
flour, a little at a time, alternately. 
Bake in bread tins in a moderate 
oven forty to sixty minutes, or until 
the cake leaves the sides of the pans. 

Gingerbread -with Whipped Cream. 

Use the gingerbread recipe given 
above, substituting a cupful boiling 
water for the coffee and using half 
butter and half lard; or 2 cupfuls 
molasses may be used, and the sugar 
omitted. In the latter case 2 tea- 
spoonfuls soda instead of one should 
be dissolved in a cupful boiling wa- 
ter. Serve the cake very fresh, and 
cover the top just before serving with 
whipped cream. The cake may be 
broken into squares, and the pieces 
fitted together and covered entirely 
with whipped cream. It can then be 
served as a dessert. — Mabt Ronald. 

Quick Cake. 

J cupful soft butter, 
IJ cupfuls brown sugar, 

2 eggs, 

i cupful milk. 
If cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
i teaspoonful cinnamon, 

J teaspoonful grated nutmeg, 
J pound dates stoned and cut in 
pieces. 

Put ingredients in a bowl and beat 
all together for three minutes, using a 
wooden cake spoon. Bake in a but- 
tered and floured cake pan thirty-five 



to forty minutes. If directions are 
followed, this makes a most satisfac- 
tory cake; but if the ingredients are 
added separately, it will not prove a 
success. — Fannie M. Fakmee. 

Black Angel Cake. 

1 cupful Runkel's Chocolate 
grated, 

i cupful milk, 

2 cupfuls brown sugar. 
Yolk 1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
ican Vanilla, 

J cupful butter, 

2 cupfuls flour, 
2 eggs, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Stir together in a saucepan the 
grated chocolate, milk, 1 cupful sug- 
ar, yolk 1 egg, and teaspoonful va- 
nilla; cook slowly and cool. Take 1 
cupful sugar, the butter, flour, milk, 
2 eggs— cream butter and sugar with 
yolks of eggs; add milk, sifted flour, 
whites of eggs beaten stiff, beat to- 
gether, then stir in the custard, lastly 
add the soda, dissolved in warm wa- 
ter. This cake will keep a long time. 
Another way is to bake in layers with 
the following filling: One cupful 
brown sugar, 1 cupful white sugar, 1 
cupful water, 1 tablespoonful vine- 
gar. BoU until like candy, then stir 
in beaten whites 2 eggs and J pound 
marshmallows, boil again and place 
on cake, letting each layer cool before 
adding another. 

Fork Cake. 

1 pound salt pork, 

2 cupfuls boiling water, 

2 cupfuls dark-brown sugar, 

1 cupful molasses, 

1 teaspoonful soda, 

1 pound raisins, 

1 pound chopped dates, 

i pound citron shaved fine, 

4 cupfiils flour, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful cloves, 

1 teaspoonful allspice, 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 



CAKE 



Chop the pork so fine as to look al- 
most like lard, pour on it the boiling 
water, add the sugar, molasses, and 
soda, stir in the raisins, dates, and 
citron. Add the flour with the spices, 
pour the batter in loaf-cake pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Apple Sauce Cake. 

1 cupful butter, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
* eggs, 

3 cupfuls flour, 

1^ teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
1 cupful milk, 
6 apples, 
6 ounces sugar, 
1 teaspoonful butter. 

Rub butter and sugar to a cream, 
add 3 eggs at a time, beating hard. 
Sift flour and baking powder to- 
gether, add with milk, and mix into a 
batter. Bake in jelly-cake tins. Have 
apples peeled and sliced, and put on 
fire with sugar; when tender, rub 
through fine sieve, and add butter. 
When cold, use to spread between 
layers. Cover cake plentifully with 
sugar sifted over top. 

Banana Cake. 

i cupful butter, 

1 cupful sugar, 
i cupful milk, 

2 scant cupfuls flour, 

IJ teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Whites 4 eggs, 

i teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Mix flour and baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar, add milk 
and flour alternately, then vanilla and 
beaten whites. Bake in 3 layer tins 
in hot oven. To boiled icing add i 
cupful finely sliced bananas and use 
as filling. Dust top with powdered 
sugar. 

Geranium Cake. 
i cupful butter, 
1 cupful sugar. 



§ cupful water, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

3 cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 

powder. 
Whites 4 eggs. 

Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar, add alter- 
nately the water and flour, then whites 
of eggs, and whip hard five minutes. 
Line loaf pan with buttered paper, 
and rose-geranium leaves. Bake in 
a moderate oven. The leaves can.be 
pulled off with the paper. 

Lemon Queen Cake. 
3 cupfuls sugar, 
3 cupfuls flour, 

1 cupful butter, 
8 eggs, 

2 lemons, 

i teaspoonful soda, 
J teaspoonful salt. 

Mix salt and soda with flour. Beat 
butter to a light cream, and add 
lemon rind. Beat half the sugar into 
it. Beat yolks of eggs, then whites, 
then both together. Add sugar to the 
eggs and beat well. Put in lemon 
juice last. Bake in small cake tins. 

White Fruit Cake. 
i cupful butter, 
IJ cupfuls sugar, 

3 eggs, 

2J cupfuls flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
J cupful sweet cream, 
IJ pounds raisins, 
1 pound currants, 

4 cupful citron, 

J cupful orange peel, 
i teaspoonful nutmeg. 
Dash salt. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the beaten egg yolks, then alternately 
the cream and flour sifted with bak- 
ing powder. Stir in the fruit, which 
has been dredged with flour, also the 
nutmeg, last of all the whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in deep 
pans lined with parafBn paper. 



230 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Walnut Mocha Cake. 
i cupful butter, 
1 cupful sugar, 
i cupful cold coffee. 
If cupfuls flour, 
2i teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder. 
Whites 3 eggs, 
1 cupful broken walnut meats. 

Cream the butter and sugar, mix 
alternately the cold coffee and flour 
sifted with the baking powder, then 
stir in the walnut meats and whites 
of eggs beaten stiff. Bake in a deep 
pan and cover with White-Mountain 
Frosting, garnished with half walnuts. 

Cider Cake. 

S cupfuls sugar, 
1 cupful butter, 

3 eggs, 

1 cupful cider, 

4 cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful cloves, 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat 
in the yolks of eggs, sift together the 
flour, soda, and spice, and mix al- 
ternately with the cider; last add the 
whites of eggs whipped to a stiff 
froth. 

ITeapolitan Cake. 

2 cupfuls" sugar, 
1 cupful butter, 

3 eggs, 

1 cupful milk, 
3 cupfuls flour, 

IJ teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Make this cake exactly after the di- 
rections given for other cakes, then 
divide the batter into 3 equal parts. 
Color one third brown with a square 
of Runkel's Chocolate melted, another 
part pink with a morsel of pink col- 
oring paste dissolved in i teaspoonful 
Mcllhenny's Vanilla, leave the third 
part uncolored; pour each portion 
into a layer-cake tin and bake in a 
moderate oven. Lay on a platter 
first the white cake, then the choco- 



late, then the pink, putting each one 
together with White-Mountain Frost- 
ing; cover the top thickly with the 
same icing. 

Citron Cake. 

i cupful butter, 
1 cupful sugar, 
3 eggs, 

i cupful milk, 
3 cupfuls flour, 
1 cupful citron, 

IJ teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the beaten egg yolks, then the flour 
sifted with the baking powder, al- 
ternately with the milk. Whip the 
whites of eggs to a dry froth, blend 
into the cake batter, add the finely 
shaved citron, and bake an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Huckleberry Cake. 

i cupful butter, 
1 cupful sugar, 
3 eggs, 

1 cupful milk, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

1 cupful huckleberries. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the beaten eggs, milk and flour sifted 
with the baking powder. Stir in a 
cupful huckleberries dredged with 
flour, and bake in a moderate oven in 
a deep cake pan. This cake may be 
eaten cut in slices or served hot as a 
dessert with vanilla sauce. 

Cocoanut-and-Citron Cake. 
J cupful butter, 
1 cupful sugar, 

3 eggs, 

IJ cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
J cupful milk. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the beaten egg yolks, then the milk 



CAKE 



231 



with the flour and baking powder; 
last of all stir in the whites of eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Bake the 
cake in two layers. Prepare the frost- 
ing after this fashion: Whip i pint 
double cream till stiff, blend with J 
cupful powdered sugar and stir in 
3 cupfuls finely grated cocoanut. 
Spread between the cake, also on top, 
scattering it with shaved citron. 
This cake must be eaten soon after it 
is made, else it becomes sour and 
soggy. 

Gold Cake. 

J cupful butter, 

i cupful sugar. 

Yolks S eggs, 

1 teaspoonful orange extract, 

J cupful flour, 

IJ teaspoon fuls Calumet baking 

powder, 
i cupful milk. 

Cream the butter, add sugar slow- 
ly, and continue beating. Add the 
yolks of eggs beaten until thick and 
lemon-colored, and the orange ex- 
tract. Mix and sift the flour with 
the baking powder, and add alter- 
nately with milk to the first mixture. 
Bake in a buttered and floured tin. 

Hickory Cake. 

1 cupful butter, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

1 cupful cold water. 
Yolks 4 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful ground mace and 
cinnamon mixed, 

2 teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder, 

3 cupfuls flour, 

2 cupfuls hickory-nut kernels. 

Cream the butter with the sugar, 
add the cold water, well beaten yolks 
of eggs, mace, and cinnamon, baking 
powder and flour, stirred in alter- 
nately with the stiffened whites of 
eggs. Add the nuts, thoroughly 
dredged with flour. Stir in quickly, 
and turn into a loaf tin. Bake in a 
steady oven, covering the cake with 
brown paper for the first half hour it 



is in the oven. When cold, turn out, 
and cover with a plain icing. Arrange 
half kernels of hickory nuts at regu- 
lar intervals on top of the icing, 

Ground-Bice Cake. 

Yolks 12 eggs, 
Whites 6 eggs, 
Grated peel 2 lemons, 
2 cupfuls ground rice, 
2 cupfuls flour, 
2 cupfuls sugar. 

Beat the yolks and whites of eggs 
with the lemon, mix in the rice, flour, 
sugar;' beat up with the eggs, using 
a wooden spoon; butter a pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 




a. Ham Boiler; b. Fish Kettle with Removable 
Tray. 

Jelly Boll. 

3 eggs, 

1 cupful sugar, 

J teaspoonful milk, 

1 teaspoonful baking powder, 

J teaspoonful salt, 

1 cupful flour, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Beat eggs until light, add sugar 
gradually, milk, flour mixed and 
sifted with baking powder and salt, 
then butter. Line the bottom of a 
dripping pan with paper; butter pa- 
per and sides of pan. Cover bottom 
of pan with mixture, and spread 
evenly. Bake twelve minutes in a 
moderate oven. Take from oven and 
turn on n, paper sprinkled with pow- 
dered sugar. Quickly remove paper. 



232 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



and cut off a thin strip from sides 
and ends of cake. Spread with jelly 
or jam which has been beaten to con- 
sistency to spread easily, and roll. 
After cake has been rolled, wrap paper 
around cake that it may better keep 
in shape. The work must be done 
quickly, or cake will crack in rolling. 

Homemade Wedding Cake. 
2 cupfuls butter, 

2 cupfuls light-brown sugar, 
12 eggs, 

1 cupful molasses, 

4 cupfuls flour, 

li teaspoonfuls mace, 

4 teaspoonfuls allspice, 

4 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 

1 grated nutmeg, 

i teaspoonful soda, 

3 pounds raisins, 
IJ pounds citron, 

3 pounds sultana raisins, 
1 pound currants, 

J candied lemon peel, 
^ candied orange peel, 

4 squares Runkel's Chocolate, 
1 tablespoonful hot water, 

1 cupful milk. 

Before beginning to make the cake, 
prepare the fruit required, seed the 
raisins and cut them into halves with 
a, scissors. Shave the citron, orange, 
and lemon peel into thin strips. 
Dredge them with flour, and set the 
chocolate to melt over boiling water. 
Sift together the flour, spices, and 
soda, and separate the eggs. Cream 
the butter and sugar very light, 
add the yolks of eggs beaten till stiff 
and lemon-colored, stir in the mo- 
lasses, then the milk. Sift in the 
flour and spices, beat thoroughly, add 
the fruit, melted chocolate, whites 
of eggs whipped to a stiff froth, 
and the soda dissolved in hot water. 
Pour into a large round pan, which 
has been lined with paraffin paper and 
steam four hours. An excellent meth- 
od to thoroughly cook such a large, 
rich cake as this to the heart is to 
steam it for an hour, then set into 
the fireless cooker, and leave it there 
over night. The saucepan which fits 



into the United States Cooker is al- 
most the size to contain this recipe, 
and the cake could be baked right in 
it. When the steaming process is fin- 
ished, the cake needs drying. Take 
off the lid, and leave it imcovered an 
hour or two in an oven which is 
merely warm. Turn out on a cake 
cooler, and when cold, ice with White 
Mountain Frosting. 

Chocolate Snow Cake. 

J cupful butter, 

1 cupful sugar, 

J cupful milk, 

Ig cupfuls flour. 

Si teaspoonfuls Calumet baking 
powder. 

Whites 2 eggs, 

J teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the milk alternately with the flour 
and baking powder sifted together. 
Flavor with vanilla, and cut in the 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake in layer tins. Fill with choco- 
late filling, and cover with chocolate 
frosting. 



CAKES RAISED BY YEAST 

Old-Fashioned B.aised Cake. 
i pound currants, 
6 cupfuls flour, 
2 cupfuls warm milk, 
J yeast cake, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 
J cupful butter, 

2 cupfuls sifted brown sugar, 
4 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful mixed spice, 
1 cupful raisins. 

Mix salt with half the flour; add 
yeast, then gradually warm milk, 
beating to a batter, and set to rise 
over night. In the morning cream 
the butter and sugar, add also spice 
and beaten eggs to the risen batter, 
put in the remainder of the flour, 
gradually mixing thoroughly with the 
hand. Add fruit last. Let it rise 



CAKE 



233 



until perfectly light. Scrape down 
and stir J All pans two thirds full; let 
stand in a warm place. It will not 
rise perceptibly in the pans, but the 
process wUl have begun afresh in 
them and will complete in the baking. 
Bake an hour or more. 

Loaf Cake without Eggs. 

2 cupfuls warm milk, 

3 cupfuls sugar, 
1 cake yeast, 

1 cupful butter, 

1 cupful lard. 

Raisins, 

Spices, 

1 teaspoonful Calumet baking 

powder. 
Flour. 

Dissolve the yeast in a cupful wa- 
ter, add to the milk and 1 cupful sug- 
ar; make a stiff batter and let it rise 
over night; then add the rest of the 
sugar, butter, and lard; also raisins 
and spices and the baking powder. 
Let it rise again before baking. 

Long Ileadow Loaf Cake. 
5 cupfuls sugar, 
li cupfuls butter, 
1 cupful lard, 
i cupfuls warm milk, 
1 yeast cake. 
Whites 4 eggs. 
Flour, 

I teaspoonful nutmeg, 
1 teaspoonful soda, 
li pounds raisins, 
i pound citron. 

Cream the sugar, butter, and lard. 
Mix thoroughly, divide, and to the 
smaller part of this mixture add the 
warm milk, yeast dissolved in the 
milk, and flour enough to make a 
batter which will be hard to stir with 
a spoon. Let it rise over night in a 
warm place. In the morning add the 
rest of the sugar and shortening, the 
whites of eggs, nutmeg, and soda. 



Let it rise again till light — ^it may 
take four hours — ^then add the rai- 
sins and citron. When risen the last 
time, bake slowly an hour. — ^Mes. E, 
Bbewsb. 

English Whigs. 

J cupful butter, 
6 cupfuls flour, 
3 eggs, 
i yeast cake, 

3 cupfuls milk, 

1 cupful sugar, 

i pound currants. 

Rub the butter into the flour, beat 
the eggs with the yeast, the batter, 
and add the milk; beat all until 
smooth, cover the batter and let it 
stand three hours; then stir in the 
sugar and currants. Allow it to 
stand an hour, then pour in small tins, 
fill half full, and stand till risen. A 
quarter of an hour in a quick oven is 
sufficient to bake them. 

Irish Barn Bake. 

2 cupfuls bread dough, 

2 ounces caraway seed, 
1 cupful sugar, 

4 eggs, 

i cupful butter. 

Add as much flour to the dough as 
will make it a fit consistency to mold. 
Shape into loaves, let them rise, and 
bake. 

Yorkshire Cake. 

3 pounds flour, 

IJ pints warm milk, 
6 ounces butter, 
1 yeast cake, 
3 eggs. 

Beat the flour, milk, yeast cake, 
and eggs well together, and let it 
rise; then form the cakes round; 
place them on the baking tins and 
let them rise again before putting 
them in the oven, which must be of a 
moderate heat. The butter may be 
warmed with the milk and added. 



CHAPTER XXXV 



CAKE FILLINGS AND ICINGS 



Whipped-Cream Filling. 

Pour a cupful double cream into 
a bowl and whip with a Dover egg 
beater tiU stiff. Stop as soon as it 
begins to be quite thick or it wiU 
change to butter. Sweeten with 2 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and 
flavor with i teaspoonful Mcllhenny's 
Mexican Vanilla. This may be spread 
between layers of cake, then the top 
ornamented with a little of the cream 
squeezed through a pastry bag. 

Maple-Cream Filling. 

Boil J cupful maple sirup until 
quite thick. Then add to it a tea- 
spoonful granulated gelatin which 
has been dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls 
cold water. Allow it to cool, and as 
soon as it begins to thicken, beat vsdth 
a fork, then add it to a cupful thick 
cream which has been beaten stiff. 

Chocolate-Cream Filling. 
1 cupful sugar, 
J cupful flour. 
Dash salt, 
3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 

i square Runkel's Chocolate, 

2 cupfuls milk. 

Put into a bowl the sugar, flour, 
and salt, blend thoroughly, then mix 
with the eggs well beaten. Scald the 
milk in a double boiler and add to it 
the egg mixture, beating steadily till 
it thickens. As soon as it is taken 
from the fire, stir in the melted choco- 
late and vanilla. Pour between lay- 
ers of a cake when it has cooled. 



Caramel Filling. 

1 tablespoonful butter, 
i cupful sugar, 
i cupful cream, 
J cupful caramel, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

BoU together the butter, sugar, and 
cream until it spins a thread. Then 
add the caramel and vamlla, beat un- 
til cool, and pour between the cake. 

Cream Filling. 

li cupfuls milk, 
1 teaspoonful butter. 
Dash salt, 
3 eggs, 

i cupful sugar, 
3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla. 

Scald the milk with the butter, sug- 
ar, and salt; add the eggs beaten to- 
gether with the cornstarch. As soon 
as the mixture becomes creamy, beat 
it thoroughly, cool, and add the va- 
nilla. To make a coffee filling, use 
this recipe exactly as given, only add- 
ing i cupful very strong black coffee 
and leaving out i cupful hot milk. 

Orange Filling. 

Juice and grated rind 1 orange, 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 

1 teaspoonful orange extract. 

Whites 2 eggs, 

i cupful powdered sugar, 

1 teaspoonful gelatin, 

3 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

Put the gelatin to soak in the cold 
water, then set it Into a bowl of boil- 



234 



CAKE FILLINGS AND ICINGS 



235 



ing water until it dissolves, and add 
to the juice of the fruit. As soon as 
it begins to thicken, beat with a fork 
till fluflfy, and mix with the powdered 
sugar and whites of eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. 

Peach Filling. 

1 cupful whipped cream, 
i cupful powdered sugar, 
1 cupful peach pulp. 

Cut up 2 or 3 very ripe, juicy 
peaches and squeeze them through a 
potato ricer. Add to the pulp the 
sugar and cream beaten to a stiff 
froth. Blend thoroughly and put be- 
tween layer cake. All recipes where 
whipped cream is added to a filling 
ought to be eaten as soon as possible 
after being made. The liquor soaks 
into a cake if it stands any time. 

Ked-B.aspberry Filling. 

i cupful red raspberries. 
White 1 egg, 
i cupful powdered sugar, 
1 cupful thick cream. 

Wliip the cream to a stiff froth, 
also the white of egg. Put the two 
together and with a fork stir the sug- 
ar in, blending it perfectly. At the 
last, just before spreading the cake, 
stir in the raspberries thoroughly 
mashed. Strawberries may be used 
in the same way or the pulp of fresh 
apricots. 

Tntti-Frutti Filling. 

1 cupful whipped cream, 
i cupful powdered sugar, 
1 cupful combination chopped 
walnuts, almonds, dates, rai- 
sins, and shaved citron. 

Whip the cream very stiff, beat in 
the sugar, then add the nuts and 
fruit, blending it thoroughly with a 
fork. 

Plain Icing. 

Pour 3 tablespoonfiils whipped 
cream into a bowl and sift over it 



sufficient confectioner's sugar to make 
an icing thick enough to spread. Fla- 
vor with any extract or fruit juice 
you desire to use. 

Egg Icing. 

White 1 egg, 

1 cupful confectioner's sugar, 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Whip the white of egg until 
frothy, beat in the lemon juice, then 
the sugar, until the icing is of a con- 
sistency that will spread. 

White-Mountain Icing. 

1 cupful granulated sugar, 
1 teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
J cupful water. 
White 1 egg. 

Bring the water to the boil, add 
the sugar, and let the sirup cook 
.without stirring until it will thread 
when lifted on the tip of a spoon. 
Pour it boiling hot over the white of 
egg which has been beaten to a stiff 
froth. Whip the mixture till it is 
soft and creamy, add the flavoring, 
and pour over the cake, spreading it 
smooth with a palette knife dipped in 
cold water. 

Chocolate Frosting. 
i cupful cream, 
IJ squares Runkel's Chocolate, 
1 egg, 

J teaspoonful butter, 
J teaspoonful Mcllhenny's Mexi- 
can Vanilla, 
Confectioner's sugar. 

Put the chocolate in a bowl to melt 
over hot water, scald the cream and 
pour over it, add the beaten yolk of 
egg and butter. Beat with a fork 
and sift in enough confectioner's sug- 
ar to make it of the proper consist- 
ency; last of all put in the vanilla, 
and spread over the cake. This frost- 
ing used on layers of white cake with 
chocolate filling between makes a de- 
licious combination. 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Orange Frosting. 
Rind 1 orange, 

3 tablespoonfuls orange juice, 
1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 
Confectioner's sugar. 

Sift into the orange juice and rind 
enough confectioner's sugar to make 
this frosting spread. 

Coffee Frosting. 

Use the recipe given for White- 
Mountain frosting, only substitute J 
cupful strong coffee for boiling wa- 
ter, and leave out any flavoring. 

Caramel Frosting. 
J cupful cream. 
Dash salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls caramel, 

1 cupful light-brown sugar. 

Boil together the brown sugar and 
cream for five minutes, then add the 
caramel and salt. Beat till cool and 
creamy, and pour while warm over 
the cake. 

Uaple-Sugar Frosting. 

4 tablespoonfuls boUing water, 
i pound jnaple sugar. 

White 1 egg. 

Boil the sugar and water together 
till it spins a thread. Pour over the 



white of egg beaten tiU stiff, and 
whip till thick enough to spread. 

Fondant Icing. 

3 cupfuls sugar, 

i teaspoonful cream of tartar," 
1 cupful boiling water, 
1 tablespoonf ul Mcllhenny's 
Mexican Vanilla. 

Mix the sugar and cream of tartar 
together, pour the water over it, and 
boil till it forms a little soft ball 
when dropped into cold water. Pour 
it out on an oiled platter, beat and 
knead till of the consistency of lard. 
Allow it to cool. When ready to use, 
soften it over boiling water, stirring 
with a fork till it is creamy. Add the 
flavoring, and pour over the cake. By 
first using this icing on a cake, then 
covering when hard and smooth with 
Bunkel's Sweet Chocolate melted, you 
have what is called a chocolate-cream 
icing. 

Decorating Icing. — Whip the 
whites of 3 eggs to a very stiff froth, 
then add slowly powdered sugar un- 
til the mixture is so stiff that every 
point and thread left by the bfeater 
will hold its place. It requires beat- 
ing a long time. It is the same as 
meringue mixture, except that it is 
made hard with sugar instead of by 
drying, and takes about J cupful sug- 
ar to each egg. — Mahy Roxtald. 



CHAPTER XXXVI 

FIRELESS COOKERY 



FOELEBS COOKER 

The United States Fireless Cooker 
attracted my attention and has my 
indorsements for three reasons: 
First, it is cheap, practical, and eas- 
ily manipulated; second, it has no 
fabric or other lining to require extra 
care or to become foul; and last, be- 
cause the inner vessel can be renewed 
at any time at little cost. The whole 
contrivance is so simple, so perfect, 
so easily understood, that it can be 
manipulated by a child. ■ 

The idea of cooking without iire 
should meet with approval from 
every housewife. It seems strange 
at first — ^paradoxical, almost a joke 
— ^but when the fact is demonstrated 
by an easily managed, simple con- 
trivance, the truth is confirmed — we 
can really cook without fire. And 
not one, but many kinds of food. 

Cooks have always known that 
food would keep hot for a long time 
if carefully covered. This fact in- 
duced some one to go just a step 
beyond and make a nonconducting 
cover that would retain the heat at 
a uniform temperature for many 
hours; and this is the principle of 
the fireless cooker. 

Meats retain their flavor, and be- 
come tender more quickly if cooked 
below the boiling point. "Boiled" 
meats, to be perfect, should, after 
the first boiling, be cooked at a tem- 
perature of 180°; to maintain this 
temperature over a fire requires eter- 
nal vigilance, and even then is difS- 
cult to control. With a fireless 
cooker one need not give the meat a 
thought from the time it goes in the 
cooker until time for dinner. 

It is to be especially, recommended 
for vegetables that emit an odor 



while cooking, as cabbage, cauliflower, 
onions, and sauerkraut. Imagine 
surprising your family with a cab- 
bage or sauerkraut dinner! 

It is worth double its cost for ce- 
reals alone. One may have a well- 
cooked cereal without fire or rush in 
the morning. Your breakfasts can be 
put on the table in ten minutes. 

It saves time. One can prepare 
dinner while the breakfast dishes are 
being washed. When ready to leave 
the kitchen, put the cooking vessel 
with its boiling contents in the cpok- 
er and go where you please until din- 
ner time. 

Foods do not become overcooked 
nor water-soaked if the dinner, from 
necessity, is pushed on an extra hour. 
Do not open the cooker; let it alone 
until you are ready to serve its con- 
tents. Nothing can be overdone 
when cooked in the United States 
Fireless Cooker. 

It retains the nutrition and the 
natural flavors of all foods. There 
is no chance for escape. 

It does away with that most un- 
pleasant pot washing. It saves half 
the usual fuel. 

It saves the housewife hours of 
time and worry. 

It makes tough meat tender and 
palatable, and in this way saves 
many a dollar in a year in the cost 
of meat alone. 

It is indispensable to the stunmer 
camp, house boat, or yacht. The fish- 
erman or the camper may stay out 
an extra hour without keeping any- 
one waiting or spoiling the dinner. 

To insure the best results with the 
United States Fireless Cooker, make 
sure that all foods are boiling hot in 
the cooking vessel when you place it 



337 



238 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



in the cooker. The object of the 
cooker is simpIy^ to maintain the 
heat and continue the cooking. Large 
pieces of meat must be boiled suffi- 
ciently long to be thoroughly heated 
to the center or they will cool the 
water after the cooking vessel has 
been packed in the cooker. The best 
results are obtained when the cook- 
ing vessel is nearly or quite full. 

If things are to be served boiling 
hot, stand the cooking vessel over the 
fire while you are arranging the 
table. 

I am using the United States Fire- 
less CJooker in both my kitchens, and 
would not, for many times its cost, 
give it up. Even with a gas stove, 
I prefer the cooker for long, slow 
cooking. 

It steams fruit cakes to perfection 
— ^no watching, no boiling dry, no re- 
plenishing of water. Four hours in 
the cooker and one hour in the oven 
finishes them. Think of the time, 
worry, and fuel saved between this 
method and a " four hours' baking 
in a very slow oven." 

I also found it most useful in the 
cooking of tripe, which requires 
hours of slow cooking to make it 
tender. Even then one has to watch 
it carefully or it will boil dry and 
scorch. A night in the cooker makes 
it very tender and ready to dress in 
many attractive ways. 

What I have accomplished in sav- 
ing, time, fuel, worry, and money by 
the use of the United States Fireless 
Cooker will, I trust, be sufficient to 
show every housewife an easier and 
better way. 

(Signed) Sasah Tysok Roreb. 

October, 1908. 

FIRELESS COOKEBT 

Until one has become initiated into 
the secret of fireless cookery, it is 
hard to understand how food can be 
prepared by such a method. When 
one has mastered the science of cook- 
ing without fire, the whole process 
becomes very simple. It is requi- 
site that, first of all, the dish which 
is being cooked should be brought to 



the boiling point and allowed to stand 
on the fire long enough for the heat 
to penetrate to the very heart of the 
food. It is then lifted, with the cover 
set on so tightly that no heat can es- 
cape, into the cooker, which is closed 
securely until several hours after- 
wards, when the food is brought to 
the table. During these hours the 
cooking is going on at a temperature 
of about 170°, the point required for 
slow cooking. For certain dishes, 
such as soups, stews, and the boiling 
of a tough piece of meat or fowl, 
there is no better way to render them 
palatable and nourishing. 

Of all the cookers that have been 
put on the market, the wisest choice 
is the United States Fireless Cooker. 
The utensil is a heavy fiber pail con- 
taining two saucepans with tight lids, 
which can be set on top of each other. 
The cover is put on securely, then 
the cooker is left to do its work until 
it is time for the food to be ready. 
When a large piece of meat, such as 
a ham, corn beef, or a heavy fowl 
is to be cooked, it is brought to the 
boil in a large, deep pail which takes 
the place of the two smaller ones. 
In this cooker there are no cushions 
to retain odors or dampness; it can 
be kept perfectly clean by washing 
and airing each time it is used, and 
it is practically indestructible. 

Some of the advantages of fireless 
cookery are these: During hot 
weather there is emancipation from 
an overheated kitchen. Food can be 
brought to the boil over a gas stove, 
the flame turned out, then the prep- 
aration of the meal can go on without 
any further attention. This means a 
saving of at least eighty per cent in 
fuel. 

The perfect preparation of cheap 
cuts of meat, which could not be 
done over a hot stove. 

There is no odor whatever while 
the food is being prepared. This al- 
lows the cooking of cabbage, onions, 
cauliflower, ham, corn beef, sauer- 
kraut, and various other foods, which 
are apt to fill a house with most un- 
pleasant smells. 



FIRELESS COOKERY 



239 



It is almost impossible to overcook 
any food which has been properly 
prepared and then placed in l!he 
cooker; even if the time allotted for 
a certain dish has passed, it will be 
benefited instead of spoiled. 

The washing of heavy, greasy, 
scorched pots and pans is no longer 
a necessity. There can be no burn- 
ing of anything in the cooker. 

The housewife who masters the se- 
crets of flreless cookery can plan her 
meals exactly to the minute. 

Breakfast can be prepared the 
night before, and found in the morn- 
ing deliciously cooked and hot. This 
is especially true of such coarse- 
grained cereals as oatmeal, cornmeal, 
and cracked wheat, which demand 
hours of steaming over a hot stove 
to become fit for human food. Also 
there is a saving in the amount of 
cereal used, as it swells to its largest 
capacity. 

The fireless cooker is a boon for the 
man or woman who requires a hot 
meal during the night; by close cal- 
culation a dish can be put in and be 
ready at any moment required. 

The cooker is as useful for keep- 
ing frozen food chilled as for pre- 
serving heat in a hot dish. Instead 
of taking the labor to repack ice 
cream, put a can containing the fro- 
zen mixture into the cooker, pour 
around it some of the crushed ice 
and salt, fill up the space with cold 
brine, set on the cover, and the cream 
will remain in perfect condition for 
several hours. 

Even when one has a small family 
which cannot use the quantity con- 
tained in one of the saucepans which 
fit into the cooker, equally good re- 
sults may be obtained by preparing 
the dish in a granite pan, bringing 



it to the proper amount of heat, pour- 
ing water about it and allowing the 
water to boil. Set the cover on, put 
the utensil in the cooker, fit in the 
lid, and give the dish the time re- 
quired. 

A FEW ETTLES FOR STTCCES8FUI. COOKING 

In every case have the saucepan 
so full of food or water that it just 
allows the lid to fit in. When vacant 
space is left, heat escapes. 

. Never open the cooker until the re- 
quired time has expired. If you do, 
it will be necessary to reheat the 
dish over the stove. 

When any food seems to be ex- 
traordinarily tough, such as old beets, 
or a sinewy fowl, allow an hour or 
two more than the time directed. 

An excellent method in preparing 
a number of dishes which require a 
long time to cook, is to set them in 
a cooker at night and leave them 
shut up tight until morning. 

Various dishes, such as veal loaf, 
baked beans, and fruit cake, are at 
their best when brought to the bak- 
ing point in the oven, then finished 
in the fireless cooker, being set in- 
side the saucepan with boiling water, 
reaching nearly to the top of the in- 
ner utensil. 

Boston bread can be made to per- 
fection in this way by letting the 
loaf dry in the oven for fifteen min- 
utes after taking from the cooker. 

When yon wish to brown the top 
of anything, as if it had been baked, 
set it- under the flame in a gas oven 
for a few, minutes, watching it closely. 

When you have only one food to 
cook, fill the other saucepan with 
boiling water and set under or over 
the one containing food. It helps to 
keep the heat to point required. 



Kind. 



Coarse hominy 

Farina 

Wheatlet 

Bice... 

Macaroni 

Spaghetti 

Vermioelli 



Quantity. 



1 cupful. 
1 cupful. 
1 cupful. 
1 cupful. 
1 cupful. 
1 cupful. 
1 cupful. 



Water. 



6 cupfuls. 
6 cupfuls. 
3i cupfuls. 
4 cupfuls. 
3 cupfuls. 
3 cupfuls. 
2i cupfuls. 



Time on Stove. 



30 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 

5 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 

5 minutes. 



Time in Cookeb. 



Over night. 
3 hours. 
3 hours. 
3 hours. 
2 hours. 
2 hours. 
2 hours. 



240 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING SOUPS ABOVE 



Soxjp. 



Gonsomm^ 

Browa Stock 

Tomato 

Soup 1.1a Reine 

Potato Cream 

Soup B^gue 

Soup & la Menestra . 

Ox Tail 

White Soup Stock. . 

Beef Bouilli 

Veal 

Sportsman's Brotli. 
Fur^e de Lentilles. . 

Chicken 

Sheep's Head Broth 

Cock-arLeekie 

Friar's Chicken 

Rabbit 

Okra Gumbo 

Beef Gumbo 

Cream of Celery .... 

Cream of Corn 

Leek 

Hotchpotch 

Cream of Onion. . . . 
Soup Normandie. . . . 

Soup Ma^re. .^ 

Pur^e of Celeiiao. . . 

Split Pea 

Green Pea 

Winter Okra 

Com Chowder 

Dried Bean 

Clam Chowder 

Black Bean 

Onion Chowder 

Old-fashioned Bean. 
Herb 



Time on Stove. 


TiMIl IN CooEl 


15 minutes. 


Over night. 


30 minutes. 


Over night. 


10 minutes. 


5 hours. 


30 m nutes. 


Over night. 


10 minutes. 


2} hours. 


20 minutes. 


6 hours. 


10 minutes. 


2 hours. 


20 minutes. 


Over night. 


30 minutes. 


6 hours. 


25 minutes. 


Over night. 


20 minutes. 


5 hours. 


30 minutes. 


7 hours. 


20 minutes. 


6 hours. 


20 minutes. 


5 hours. 


30 minutes. 


Over night. 


30 minutes. 


Over night. 


30 minutes. 


7 hours. 


20 minutes. 


6 hours. 


20 minutes. 


6 hours. 


20 minutes. 


5 hours. 


10 minutes. 


3 hours. 


7 minutes. 


3 hours. 


10 minutes. 


3 hours. 


15 minutes. 


5 hours. 


5 minutes. 


3 hours. 


5 minutes. 


2 hours. 


10 minutes. 


6 hours. 


5 minutes. 


2 hours. 


10 minutes. 


6 hours. 


10 minutes. 


3 hours. 


10 minutes. 


6 hours. 


10 minutes. 


4 hours. 


15 minutes. 


Over night. 


10 minutes. 


2 hours. 


20 minutes. 


Over night. 


10 minutes. 


2 hours. 


25 minutes. 


Over night. 


10 minutes. 


2 hours. 



VEGETABLES. 



Vegetables. 



Time on Stove. 



Time in Cooker 



Beet Greens 

String Beans 

Green Peas 

Lima Beans 

Dried Beans 

Okra 

Squash 

Summer Squash 

Tomatoes 

Cabbage 

Cauliflower 

Green Com 

Onions 

Spring Beets 

Winter Beets 

Turnips 

Asparagus 

Carrots 

Brussels Sprouts 

Spinach 

Kale 

Salsify. 

KohlRabi 

Boston Baked Beans 



10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 

7 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
20 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
15 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
15 minutes. 
15 minutes. 

8 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
10 minutes. 

5 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 

2 hours. 



3 hours. 
3 hours. 

3 hours. 

4 hours. 
Over night. 

2 hours. 
Over night. 

4 hours. 

3 hours. 

5 hours. 
3 hours. 
3 hours. 
3 hours. 

3 hours. 
Over night. 
S hours, 

1} hours. 

4 nours. 
2 hours. 

2 hours. 

3 hours. 
2 hours. 
2} hours. 
Over nl^t. 



FIRELESS COOKERY 



241 



MEAT. 



Meat. 


TiMB ON Stove. 


Time in Gookeb. 


Beef Stew 


1 hour. 

1 hour. 

1 hour. 
30 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
45 minutes. 

1 hour. 
30 minutes. 

1 hour. 
30 minutes. 
15 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
20 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
45 minutes. 
20 minutes. 




BoUed Ham 


Over night. 
Over night. 


Boiled Tongue 


Year Old Fowl 


Brown Frioasse of Veal 








Veal Birds 




Veal Loaf 




New England Boiled Dinner 








Pot Roast 








Beef & la Mode 




Beet Goulash 




Tripe 




Stuffed Steak; : . 




Roast Veal 


6 hours. 











PUDDINGS. 



Pdddinqs. 



Time on Stove. 



Time in Cooker. 



Plum 

Baked Custard 

Cabinet 

Bioe Pudding.. 
Apple Tapioca. 

Fig 

Brown Betty.. 
Steamed Fruit. 

Bread 

Cream Tapioca 



1 hour. 
20 minutes. 
20 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
10 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
20 minutes. 



Over night. 

3 hours. 

4 hours. 
3 hours. 

3 hours. 
6 hours. 

4 hours. 
4 hours. 

2 hours. 

3 hours. 



A FEW RECIPES FOR FIRELESS 
COOKERY 

Beef Stew. 

4 pounds beef, 

3i quarts cold water, 

3 carrots, 
2 onions, 

li quarts sliced potatoes, 

i cupful rice, 

I tablespoonful salt, 

4 chili peppers. 

Choose a slice of beef from the top 
of a round, containing a bit of mar- 
row bone. Put the marrow into the 
spider, and when fried out, add the 
meat, cut into pieces, large enough 
to make a portion; let them cook, 
turning constantly, imtil brown. Put 
part of the meat which has not been 
browned with the bone into the cold 
water in the pan of the cooker, and 
add the brown meat. Rinse out the 



spider to get all the brown gravy 
possible, cover the pail, and let it 
simmer an hour. Cut the carrots 
into slices, also the onions and pota- 
toes, and parboil for five minutes. 
Drain, blanch in cold water, and add 
to the meat. Put the rice over the 
fire in cold water, let it boil five min- 
utes, put it also in the pail, then add 
the salt and peppers, cover closely, 
and cook twenty minutes. Put the 
pail into the cooker, shut down the 
lid, and leave it eight hours. 

Boiled Ham. 

If the ham is very salty soak it over 
night in cold water, put it into the 
pail in the morning, cover with cold 
water, put the lid on tightly, and 
bring to the boiling point. Cook ten 
minutes hard, then simmer for fifteen 
more, set it into the cooker, and leave 
it there over night. 



242 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



Chop Suey. 

1 quart lean pork and chicken, 
1 onion, 

1 pint celery, 

3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 

2 tablespoonfuls molasses, 
IJ teaspoonfuls salt, 

1 tablespoonful China soy, 
i cupful fresh mushrooms. 

Cut the pork and chicken into 
small pieces, put any bones that re- 
main in a cheese-cloth bag, tie it up 
and drop in pail of cooker. Cover 
with cold water and let it come very 
slowly to the boil. Fry out a piece 
of fat, salt pork in a spider, and 
brown the meat. Add it to the water 
in the pail, also the onion, the celery 
cut in inch lengths, bring to the boil- 
ing point, then simmer slowly for 
one hour. Dissolve the cornstarch in 
a little water and stir it in. Add 
the molasses, salt, and soy. Cook 
ten minutes longer, set the pail, 
tightly covered, into the cooker; leave 
it there eight hours. When served, 
lift out the cheese-cloth bag with 
the bones. Serve chop suey with 
boiled rice, Saratoga chips, and toast. 



New England Boiled Dinner. 

Put the corned beef on to cook at 
six in the morning if you want it for 
a six-o'clock dinner. Cover with 
cold water, put on lid securely, and 
sinomer for half an hour. Then set it 
in the cooker. Pare potatoes, cut up 
cabbage in quarters, pare some tur- 
nips and slice them, and let each 
vegetable cook separately for ten 
minutes. Drain and blanch. Lift the 
meat from the cooker, put the vege- 
tables into the pail, cover, and boil 
ten minutes. Return to the cooker 
untU six o'clock. 



Pot Koast. 

i pound salt pork, 
5 pounds round steak, 
3 cupfuls boiling water. 
Salt pepper, and flour. 



Rub the meat on all sides with 
salt, pepper, and flour, fry out salt 
pork in a spider and brown the meat 
in it. Set a trivet into the pail of 
the cooker, pour in 2 cupfxils boiling 
water, which has been used to rinse 
the spider, let it boU five minutes, 
then cook gently on top of the stove 
for one hour. Remove to the fireless 
cooker and allow it ten hours. If 
vegetables are desired, parboil them, 
lay them under the meat in the 
gravy, and strain out before it is 
thickened. 

Steamed Fudding. 

J pound beef suet, 

J cupful flour, 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful mace, 

i teaspoonful salt, 

i teaspoonful cloves, 

J pound Sultana raisins, 

J pound currants, 

i pound citron, 

i cupful sugar, 

IJ cupfuls soft bread ariunbs, 

3 eggs, 

i cupful milk. 

Chop the suet fine, mix with the 
flour and spices, then add the fruit, 
sugar, and bread crimibs. Wet with 
the milk and eggs, stir hard, and 
turn the mixture into a greased 
mold. Set it into the pail of the 
cooker. Surround with boiling wa- 
ter, give it one hour on the stove and 
all night in the cooker. 

Stewed Prunes. 

1 pound prunes, 
J cupful sugar, 
1 cupful water. 

Wash the prunes thoroughly, soak 
for two 'hours, put them into a gran- 
ite dish, adding the sugar and water. 
Cook on top of the stove fifteen min- 
utes, then remove to the pail of the 
cooker, pour boiling water in until it 
nearly reaches the top of the pail of 
prunes, cover tightly. Let the water 
boU five minutes, then set into the 
cooker and leave over night. 



FIRELESS COOKERY 



243 



Cup Custard. 

3 cupfuls milk, 
i cupful sugar. 
Finch salt, 
3 eggs. 

Scald the milk, pour it over the 
sugar and salt, stir in the w^-beaten 
eggs, pour into custard cups, and 



grate a little nutmeg on top of each. 
Set the cups into the pail of the 
cooker, pour boiling water around 
them, and boil for ten minutes. Place 
them in the flreless cooker three 
hours. If you wish to serve custard 
with the top browned, set it under 
the flame of the gas stove for a few 
minutes. Serve icercold. 



CHAPTER XXXVIl 



FAVORITE DISHES IN FAMOUS HOMES 



In addition to the large variety of 
recipes in this book, we present con- 
tributions from the wives of famous 
men in all parts of America. The 
wife of President Taft and Vice- 
President Sherman each commend 
their favorite dish, while from wives 
of U. S. Senators and the Governors 
of various States come excellent rec- 
ipes. The value of such recipes con- 
sists not onlj in an interesting study 
of what are favorite dishes in famous 
homes, but in a most valuable addi- 
tion to the cookery encyclopedia of 
every housewife. Many of the recipes 
are for fine old-fashioned dishes, such 
as toothsome gingerbread, brown 
bread, and an excellent mince-meat. 
Here we find food peculiar to a cer- 
tain part of the coimtry, such as the 
Governor of Florida's fried okra, or a 
toothsome chicken pie, suggested by 
Mrs. Dawson, the wife of the Gov- 
ernor of West Virginia. There are 
various recipes which are unlike any 
found in ordinary cookbook literature ; 
for instance, a delicious angel-food 
pudding, Mrs. Chester Long's favorite 
cake, Hamburg cookies, Frankfort 
pudding, potato cake, and raspberry 
buns. Each recipe is well worth try- 
ing, and, once tried, it wiU become 
a favorite in thousands of homes. 



From Mrs. William H. Taft. 
Sponge Pudding. 
J cupful sugar. 



i cupful floiff, 
i cupful butter, 
1 pint boiled milk, 
5 eggs. 



Mix sugar and flour, wet with a lit- 
tle cold water and stir into the boil- 
ing milk. Cook untU it thickens £md 
is smooth. Add the butter and when 
well mixed stir it into the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Then add the 
whites beaten stiff and bake in a shal- 
low dish or cups, placing them in a 
pan of hot water while in the oven. 
Serve with creamy sauce. 

From Mrs. J. S. Sherman, wife of 
Vice-President 

Saratoga Fnddlng. 

2 cupfuls coarse bread crumbs, 

4 eggs, 

1 quart sweet milk, 

1 cupful sugar. 

Pinch salt, 

J cupful raisins. 

Butter, size of walnut. 

Flavoring, milk or vaniUa. 

After baking, spread with layer cur- 
rant jelly before putting on meringue. 

From Mrs. Reed Smoot, wife of U. S. 
Senator from Utah. 

rive-Egg Orange Cake. 

5 eggs, 

J cupful butter, 
1 cupful sugar, 
i cupful milk, 

3 cupfuls flour, 

IJ teaspoonfuls vanilla, 

IJ teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, 
drop in yolks of eggs, thoroughly 
beaten, add 1 cupful flour, milk, 
then another cupful flour, beating 



244 



FAVORITE DISHES IN FAMOUS HOMES 245 



thorougMy all the time. Add rest of 
flour, with whites of eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Bake in layer tins in mod- 
erate oven. 

Filling for the Cake 

Beat white of 1 egg to a stiff froth, 
and add 1 teacupful pulverized sug- 
ar ; grate the outside of an orange ' 
down to the white, squeeze out juice, 
and add to frosting. 



From Mrs. Joseph W. Bailey, wife of 

U. S. Senator from Texas. 
Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Take fresh, firm tomatoes, and 
cut pulp from them with a sharp 
knife. Mix together chopped cucum- 
ber, onion to taste, cabbage, pepper, 
celery and salt, with some pulp 
of tomato. Place this mixture in 
scooped tomatoes and serve on lettuce 
with a garnish of mayonnaise. 

From Mrs. J. W. Burrows, wife of U. 
S. Senator from Michigan. 

Delicious Fruit Punch. 

Sweeten juice of 8 lemons and 4 
oranges to taste. Just before serving, 
place a square of ice in a punch bowl 
and pour over it sweetened juice, then 
add 3 quarts Apollinaris water or 
White Rock, and garnish with a bunch 
of grapes laid on ice. A giU of rasp- 
berry or blackberry juice left over 
from canned fruit adds a beautiful 
color to the pimch as well as a fine 
flavor. 

From Mrs. B. R. Tillman, wife of 
U. S. Senator from South Carolina. 

Time's Gingerbread. 
1 cupful sugar, 

1 cupful butter, 
4 eggs, 

3 cupfuls molasses, 

4 cupfuls sour milk, 

2 teaspoonfuls soda, 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 

2 teaspoonfuls salt, 

3 teaspoonfuls ground ginger, 

5 cupfuls flour. 



Cream together butter and sugar, 
add eggs well beaten, molasses, then 
sour milk, and, last, flour with which 
has been sifted spices, salt, and soda. 
Bake in moderate oven. 

From Mrs. Robert J. Gamble, wife of 
U. S. Senator from South Dakota. 

Hamburg Cookies. 

I poimd granulated sugar, 

12 eggs, 

3 pounds butter, 

1 ounce carbonate ammonia, 

10c. worth oil of lemon. 

Powder ammonia, dissolve in 1 egg, 
add balance of eggs and sugar, and 
beat for an hour. Add flour, lemon, 
and butter (not melted) ; mix with 
enough flour to make dough as stiff as 
can be rolled. Keep it on ice till ready 
to roll. With a cooky cutter shape 
like lady's iingers. Sprinkle pans 
with flour before putting .in cookies, 
and bake. The butter should have all 
the salt washed out of it twenty-four 
hours before using. This makes a de- 
licious cooky when putting jip boxes 
of cake at the Christmas season. They 
are very delicate and will keep for 
weeks. It looks like an expensive rec- 
ipe, but is not when you consider the 
quantity of cookies it makes. 

From Mrs. John Sharp Williams, wife 
of U. S. Senator from Missis- 
sippi. 

Candy. 

Have two saucepans ; into one put 3 
cupfuls granulated sugar, 1 cupful 
thick sirup, and | cupful water. Into 
the other pan put 1 cupful granu- 
lated sugar and a gill water. Allow 
contents of both pans to cook until 
sirup will spin a thread or make a soft 
ball between the fingers when dropped 
in cold water. When both are ready, 
turn slowly sirup in first pan over 
stiffly beaten whites 3 eggs, and beat 
constantly during process. Into sec- 
ond sirup stir 1 cupful chopped nuts, 
add to other, and pour frothy mass 
into buttered tins to cool. When cold, 
mark in blocks with very sharp knife. 



246 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



From Mrs. Chester I. Long, wife of 
U. S. Senator from Kansas. 

A Farorite Cake. 

4 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls baking powder, 

1 cupful milk, 

1 cupful butter. 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks 
of eggs and milk, then flour sifted 
with baking powder. After heating 
these thoroughly, add stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in three layers 
and put together with following fill- 
ing: 

1 quart double cream, 

1 pound pecans, 

1 pound seeded raisins. 

Whip cream to a froth, sweeten, 
and put between layers. Chop nuts 
and raisins and sprinkle over cream 
between each, also on top. This makes 
a cake which may be served alone as 
a dessert. It is a favorite with all our 
friends. 

From Mrs. P. J. McCxmiber, wife of 
U. S. Senator from North Dakota. 

Chocolate Cookies. 

Beat to a cream J cupful butter 
and 1 tablespoonful lard; gradually 
beat into this 1 cupful sugar. Add 1 
teaspoonf ul cinnamon, 3 ounces choco- 
late (melted over steam), 1 beaten 
egg, and J teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in 3 tablespoonfuls sour milk. Stir in 
2i cupfuls flour. Roll thin and cut 
with cooky cutter. Bake in hot oven. 
When cold, spread chocolate frosting 
on each cooky; on top of each put 
half a walnut meat. 

From Mrs. Nathan Bay Scott, wife 
of U. S. Senator from West Vir- 
ginia. 

Old-rashioned Fonnd Cake. 
1 pound butter, 
1 pound sugar, 
10 eggs, 
1 pound flour. 

Butter and sugar are first creamed, 
then yolks of eggs added, then flour. 



The rule is to beat for an hour, but 
sometimes you get tired before hour 
is up. Last, fold in whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth; bake slowly 
an hour. 

From Governor Albert W. Gilchrist 
of Florida 

Pried Okra. 

Take several pods tender okra, wash 
thoroughly, and cut into thin pieces 
crosswise! beat 2 eggs, season with 
salt and pepper, dip okra first into 
sifted meal, then into egg, again into 
meal, and fry in butter. 

From Mrs. B. B. Brooks, wife of Gov- 
ernor of Wyoming. 

Drop Cakes. 

li cupfuls brown sugar, 

1 cupful butter, 

IJ cupfuls sweet milk, 

3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful each, cinnamon, 

cloves, allspice, and nutmeg, 
1 cupful chopped raisins, 

1 cupful broken English walnuts, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Cream sugar and butter, add well- 
beaten eggs, then milk. Sift spices 
and baking powder with enough flour 
to make a batter that wiU drop from 
a spoon, add mixture, stir in nuts 
and raisins, beat well, then drop by 
teaspoonfuls on a greased pan and 
bake in hot oven. 

From Mrs. Henry B. Quinby, wife of 
Governor of New Hampshire. 

Breakfast Oems. 

3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful sugar, 

1 coffeecupful sweet milk, 

1 cupful warm water, 

4 tablespoonfuls yeast. 

Flour enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter. 

Beat yolks of eggs and sugar, stir 
in milk, water, and yeast. Beat well 
and set in a warm place to rise. When 
light, beat whites of eggs to a stiff 



FAVORITE DISHES IN FAMOlTS HOMES 247 



froth and stir into batter, witii a pinch 
of salt Bake in greased gem pans. 
If wanted for breakfast, mix batter 
night before. 

From Mrs. Edwin Lee Norris, wife of 
Govenor of Montana. 

ilolasses Pudding. 
1 cupful molasses, 
1 cupful butter, 
1 cupful hot water, 
1 teasfpoonful soda, 
3 cupfuls flour, 
1 cupful raisins. 

Cream butter, add molasses, then 
hot water; beat in flour with 
which soda has been sifted, stir in 
raisins, put in a greased mold, and 
steam three hours. 

Scmce for Molasses Puddmg, 

1 cupful butter, 

1 cupftil sugar, 

2 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, then add 
thoroughly beaten eggs. Stir to- 
gether, set over Are in cold water, let 
water come to boil, and serve sauce 
hot. A glass of sherry or brandy may 
be added, though we prefer it without. 

From Mrs. W. M. O. Dawson, wife of 
Governor of West Virginia. 

Chicken Pie. 

Meat of 1 chicken cooked, 

1 can mushrooms, 

IJ pints potato balls parboiled, 

6 hard-boiled eggs, 

1 heaping tablespoonful minced 

parsley, 
1} pints cream dressing. 

Cut chicken meat as for a salad, put 
in bottom of baking dish, cover with 
mushrooms, then with potato balls. 
Season to taste. Sprinkle over it 
minced whites of eggs, then minced 
yolks. Scatter with minced parsley, 
and cover with dressing. On top put 
a cover of small biscuits as large as a 
finger ring. Bake three quarters of 
an hour. 



Prom Mrs. F. M. Warner, wife of 
Governor of Michigan. 

Pinafore Cake. 

1 cupful sugar, 

i cupful butter (scant), 
4 cupful milk (scant), 

2 cupfuls flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Whites 3 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk, 
flour sifted with baking powder, then 
whites of eggs whipped to a stiff 
froth, also 2 tablespoonf uls cold wa- 
ter and J teaspoonful lemon flavoring. 
Put half of this mixture into a layer- 
cake pan; to what is left add 1 tea- 
spoonful strawberry coloring. When 
both cakes are baked, put together 
with following filling: 



Yolks 3 eggs, 
4 cupful sugar, 
1 cupful milk, 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch 
(scant). 

Heat milk in a double boiler, add 
eggs and cornstarch, cook till it 
thickens, add pinch of salt and any 
flavoring desired, and put between 
layers of cake. 

Prom Mrs. A. C. Shallenberger, wife 
of Governor of Nebraska. 

Amber Cream. 
1 quart milk, 
i package gelatin, 
1 cupful sugar. 
Yolks 6 eggs. 
Whites 6 eggs, 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Dissolve gelatin in a little cold wa- 
ter, let milk come to boiling point 
and melt gelatin in it. Add sugar 
and well-beaten yolks of eggs, stir- 
ring constantly till well blended, cook 
in a double boiler till it thickens, then 
turn in whites of eggs whipped to a 
stiff froth. Flavor with vanilla. Pour 
into cups or a fancy mold and set in a 
cold place over night. When ready to 



248 



MRS, CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



serve, turn out on a plate or sauce 
dish. 

From Mrs. John F. Shafroth, wife of 
Governor of Colorado. 

Cucumber Mangoes (Prize recipe). 

Soak in strong brine nine days as 
many large green cucumbers as you 
wish to use. Then lay them forty- 
eight hours in clear water. Cut a slit 
lengthwise in each, scoop out seeds, 
wipe dry and fill with stoned raisins, 
lemon cut in long, thin strips, and 6 
or 8 whole cloves. Sew up slit, pack 
cucumbers in a stone jar and cover 
with a boiling sirup made after fol- 
lowing recipe: Add to 1 quart vine- 
gar 5 pounds sugar, also mace, cin- 
namon, and cloves to taste. Reheat 
sirup and pour boiling hot over cu- 
cumbers for nine successive morn- 
ings. 

From Mrs. J. S. Sanders, wife of 
Governor of Louisiana. 

Strawberry Ambrosia. 

Select large, ripe strawberries. Ar- 
range in a glass bowl with alternate 
layers coarsely chopped pineapple. 
Sprinkle between layers plenty of 
powdered sugar and freshly grated 
cocoanut, then pour over top 1 cup- 
ful orange juice. Set on ice, and serve 
very cold. 



From Mrs. M. R. Patterson, wife of 
Governor of Tennessee. 

English Pudding. 
Yolks 4 eggs, 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 
1 pint milk, 
1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

Stir on fire in a double boiler milk, 
eggs, sugar, and cornstarch till it 
thickens, then add whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Put in a deep 
dish a layer of fruit, then one of 
macaroons, and pour custard on top. 
When cold, cover with a thin layer of 
jelly and 1 pint whipped cream. 



Almond Cream. 

Mash 13 vanilla wafers with a roll- 
ing-pin, and pour over them a wine- 
glass of whisky. When soft, add 1 
quart sweet milk and sweeten to 
taste. Whip 1 quart cream, sweeten 
to taste, flavor with a teaspoonful ex- 
tract of almond, mix with first con- 
coction, and freeze. 



From Mrs. Augustus E. Willson, 
wife of Governor of Kentucky. 

Trankf ort Pudding. 

Make a plain ice cream as follows: 
Put 1 pint new milk in a double boil- 
er; when gradually hot, add to S ta- 
blespoonfuls flour a little milk; stir 
until free from lumps, add to scalded 
milk and boil until a. little thicker 
than custard. Strain into 1 quart 
rich cream; add 2 cupfuls powdered 
sugar, whites 3 eggs (unbeaten), and 
3 teaspoonfuls vanilla. Freeze, line a 
mold with ice cream, and fiU center 
with following mixture; 

The night before you wish to use 
them, take J pound candied cherries 
and cut into small pieces, and i 
pound French chestnuts shelled, 
blanched, boiled until soft, and cut 
into small pieces. Let these stand 
over night in sherry to cover them. 
Mix lightly with 1 quart whipped 
cream and fill the center of mold; 
close it and set in salt and ice four 
hours. Serve with a sauce of whipped 
cream flavored with sherry. 



From Mrs. Bert M. Fernald, wife of 
Governor of Maine. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Melt i cupful butter, and gradually 
add 1} cupfuls sugar. Scrape i 
pound chocolate fine, add 3 teaspoon- 
fuls sugar and 3 tablespoonfuls hot 
water; stir over steam until smooth. 
Add to sugar and butter, then drop 
in yolks 3 eggs, stir, and add whites 
3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Add i 
cupful milk in which } teaspoonful 
soda is dissolved, and lastly IJ cup- 
fuls flour in which is mixed 1 tea- 



FAVORITE DISHES IN FAMOUS HOMES 249 



spoonful cream tartar and a little 
salt. Flavor with yanilla. 

Frosting 
li cupfuls sugar, 
i cupful water. 

Boil until it threads, add to the 
beaten white 1 egg, a few drops 
at a time, and stir constantly; flavor. 



1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful soda, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 
i cupful molasses. 

Mix ingredients, beat thoroughly, 
and pour into paU, with tight-fitting 
lid. Cook in vessel of boiling water 
two and a half hours. Turn out on 
a pan, and brown in oven. 



From Mrs. G. H. Prouty, wife of 
Governor of Vermont.. 

Kaple Farfait. 

1 cupful maple sirup. 
Yolks 6 eggs, 
1 pint cream. 

Heat sirup to boiling point, pour 
slowly onto beaten egg yolks and the 
whip from cream, turn into a mold and 
pack in equal measures of finely 
crushed ice and rock salt. Let stand 
four hours and serve with chopped 
browned almonds. 

From Mrs. Albert B. Cununins, wife 
of U. S. Senator from Iowa. 

Almoad Tart. 
Yolks 9 eggs, 
1 pound sugar, 

1 pound grated almonds, 

2 cupfuls grated lady's fingers, 
1 teaspoonful vanilla, 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
Juice and rind 1 lemon. 
Whites 9 eggs. 

Mix ingredients in order given, and 
bake in two layers in moderate oven. 

Filling for Tart 
1 pound chopped walnuts. 
Whites 2 eggs. 
Lemon juice and sugar to taste. 

From Mrs. Robert L. Taylor, wife of 
U. S. Senator from Tennessee. 

Steamed Corn Bread. 

S cupfuls sweet milk, 
1 cupful butter, 

3 cupfuls cormneal, 
1 cupful flour. 



From Mrs. Robert S. Vessey, wife of 
Governor of South Dakota. 

Brown Bread. 

1 cupful sweet milk, 

2 cupfuls sour milk, 
2 cupfuls cornmeal, 
1 cupful flour, 

i cupful molasses, 
li teaspoonfuls soda> 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Sift dry materials, pour in mo- 
lasses and milk, then beat hard and 
pour in a greased mold. Steam three 
hours and dry in a hot oven a few 
minutes. This mixture is very thin, 
but makes a delicious bread. 

From Mrs. G. W. Dona^hey, wife of 
Governor of Arkansas. 

White loaf Cake. 

1 cupful butter, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

1 cupful sweet milk, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
5 cupfuls flour. 

Whites 13 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, sift baking 
powder with flour, and alternately 
add it with milk to sugar and but- 
ter. Last of all, cut in whites of eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Bake in 
layer-cake pans. 

Filling for Cake 
2 cupfuls sugar. 
Whites 2 eggs, 
J pound marshmallows, 
1 pound English walnuts. 

Cook sugar with | cupful water. 
When it threads, pour over whites 
of eggs not beaten very much and 



250 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



marshmallows. Shell walnuts, break 
slightlj^, add to filling, and put be- 
tween layers of cake. 

From Mrs. John Burke, wife of Gov- 
ernor of North Dakota. 

Angel-Food Pudding. 
3 eggs, 

1 cupful powdered sugar, 
1 tablespoonful flour, 
I teaspoonful baking powder, 
1 cupful broken wsJnut meats, 

1 cupful dates. 

Beat together thoroughly eggs, sug- 
ar, flour, and baking powder, add 
nuts and dates. Pour Into a bilking 
dish, set it in a pan of boiling water 
and bake about half an hour. Let it 
cool, still standing in the water, chill, 
and serve with whipped cream. 

This pudding is a great favorite 
with children. 

From Mrs. Samuel G. Cosgrove, wife 
of Governor of Washington. 

Potato Cake. 

cupful butter, 

2 cupfufs sugar. 
Yolks 4 eggs, 

1 cupful hot mashed potato, 

3 squares chocolate, 
i cupful milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

'~^i teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful each cinnamon and 

nutmeg, 
J teaspoonful ground cloves, 
1 cupful chopped walnut meats, 
Whites 4 eggs. 

Cream together butter and 1 cupful 
sugar, beat to a froth yolks of eggs 
with remainder of sugar, then blend 
both mixtures thoroughly together. 
rA.dd potatoes, chocolate melted over 
hot water, and alternately milk with 
flour, which has been sifted with bak- 
ing powder and spices. Last, add 
whites of eggs whipped to a stiff 
froth and walnut meats. Bake in 
layers or a loaf cake as desired, and 
cover with a chocolate or a white 
frosting. 



From Mrs. W. R. Stubbs, wife of 
Governor of Kansas. 

Pickled Peaches. 

1 gallon peeled peaches, 
3 pounds sugar, 

1 pint pure cider vinegar, 

2 dozen cloves, 

6 sticks cinnamon. 

Boil vinegar, sugar, cinnamon, and 
cloves fifteen minutes, then pour li- 
quor over peaches and let stand over 
night in stone jar covered with a 
plate. Next morning pour off liquor 
and heat to boiling point, then add 
peaches to boiling liquor and let cook 
slowly imtil tender. Seal in glass 
jars. 

From Mrs. Parker Morgan, one of 

the 400. 
Kaspberry Buns. 

1 pound flour, 

i pound lard, 

6 ounces sugar, . 

i teaspoonful salt, 

IJ teaspoonsfuls baking powder, 

1 egg, 

A littie milk. 

Place flour in a bowl and rub lard 
in thoroughly; add salt, sugar, and 
baking powder. Beat egg well and 
add sufficient mUk to make the whole 
into a rather stiff paste. Knead light- 
ly, and roU out about a quarter of 
an inch thick, cut into rounds and 
wet the edges. Place a little jam in 
the center of each and fold over. 
Pinch the edges together and flatten 
slightly, put on a greased baking 
sheet, and bake in a quick oven twen- 
ty minutes. 

"From Mrs. Jesse Knight of Utah. 
Uince-Ueat. , 

i pound butter, 
2J pounds brown sugar, 

3 pounds boiled beef neck, 
IJ povmds suet, 

2i pounds white sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 
2 tablespoonfuls nutmeg. 



FAVORITE DISHES IN FAMOUS HOMES 251 



2 tablespoonf uls mace, 

3 tablespoonfuls allspice, 
3 tablespoonfuls sal^ 
Juice and rind 3 lemons, 
6 pounds raisins, seeded, 
3 pounds currants, 

1 pound citron, 

1 tablespoonful almond extract, 

8 pounds apples, 

1 pint brown sherry, 

1 pint brandy. 

Rub butter and brown sugar to- 
gether; chop beef neck after boiling 
till tender enough to fall from bone; 
grind or chop finely suet. Add spices 
to white sugar, grate rind of lemons, 
being careful not to get any white, 
and mix grated rind Into sugar and 
spices. Seed raisins, wash and dry 
currants, chop citron finely, peel and 
chop apples. Mix all thoroughly to- 
gether, adding sherry, brandy, and al- 



mond extract last. Put in glass jars; 
it will keep indefinitely. 

From Mrs. Thomas P. Gore, wife of 
Senator from Oklahoma. 

Braised Veal. 

Slice veal steak into strips from 
one to one and one half inches thick. 
Season well to taste, and roll up and 
skewer with toothpicks. Fry them in 
hot butter till browned on both sides 
— be sure not to scratch. Place them 
in a roaster and sprinkle with butter, 
add enough water-^ream and water 
is better, but in that case do not use 
butter. Bake from two to four hours 
in a moderate oven. Be careful not 
to' burn. 

This recipe was originated by a 
friend of mine, Mrs. Thomas H. 
Dunn of Oklahoma, and from experi- 
ence I know just how delicious it is. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 



SOME KITCHEN KINKS 



Instead of shelling peas, throw 
them, pods and all, into a kettle of 
boiling water, after washing and dis- 
carding aU spoiled ones. When they 
are done the pods will rise to the sur- 
face, while the peas will stay at the 
bottom of the kettle. Peas cooked in 
this manner have a fine flavor. 

To hasten the baking of potatoes, I 
let them stand a few minutes in hot 
water, after washing them clean. 

If you relish celery in soup and live 
where it cannot be secured the year 
round, dry the celery leaves as you get 
them and put them away in a fruit 
jar. When preparing soup, tie a few 
of the leaves in a cloth, and drop it 
into the kettle. You will find that the 
soup will have even more of the taste 
of celery than when using the stalk. 

In making peanut butter, I mix the 
ground peanuts with cream or millr 
instead of olive oil, if I only desire a 
small quantity. It is delicious, al- 
though it does not keep longer than a 
few days. 

Ham may be kept from getting 
hard and dry on the outside thus: 
take some of the fat part of the ham 
and fry it out. Let it get hard then 
spread on the cut end of the ham; 
half an inch thick is not too much. 
This excludes air. Hang in a cool 
place. When I want to slice ham I 
scrape off this fat, and afterwards 
put it on again as before. 

If your omelets burn because you 
have no " omelet pan," put a table- 
spoonful of common salt in the fry- 
ing skillet. Put it on the stove and 



252 



heat very hot. Empty salt from the 
pan, wipe it with a dry cloth. Cook 
the omelet with a smaU quantity of 
butter, and it will not burn easily. 

Changing the water two or three 
times will keep potatoes from turn- 
ing dark, and if they have been frost- 
bitten this will improve them. 

Before trying to break a cocoanut 
put it in the oven to warm. When 
heated a slight blow will crack it, and 
the shell will come off easily. 

A layer of absorbent cotton in the 
mouth of fruit cans is an excellent 
preventive against mold. If mold 
should form, it will cling to the cot- 
ton and leave the fruit clean. 

A delicious kind of sandwich was 
served with coffee at a recent club 
meeting. It took the fancy of each 
and every one. After tasting, some 
one asked the hostess of what it was 
made. She politely replied, " The rec- 
ipe was sent to me from a friend in 
an Eastern city, with the strict in- 
junction I should not publish it" Im- 
mediately all began guessing. A nod 
from the hostess informed one girl 
she had guessed right. Here is the 
recipe: One cake of Philadelphia 
cream cheese, mixed with canned 
Spanish peppers, chopped fine. One 
large pepper is sufficient for one cake 
of cheese. 

To keep cream sweet heat it to al- 
most boiling point, put it in a glass 
bottle or earthen vessel, cover, and set 
aside to cool. Cream thus treated will 
keep sweet and fresh several days, in 



SOME KITCHEN KINKS 



iSS 



moderate weather, and over the sec- 
ond da,j in warm weather. 

When making fudge, stir in half a 
potmd of marshmallows before jou 
turn it into the tin to cool. They melt 
immediately and make the candy as 
smooth and creamy as can be. 

If you want nicely flavored butter, 
with the buttermUk well worked out, 
try putting in a teaspoonful of clear 
honey to about three pounds of but- 
ter. You can not taste the honey but 
it improves the butter. 

When using grated or sliced pine- 
apple for sauce the juice of half a 
lemon with sugar and water added 
gives a delicious flavor. 

To give frosting a nice flavor add 
a bit of butter, the size of a hickory 
nut. It will also prevent the frosting 
from becoming hard too soon. 

To prevent staining your fingers, 
while paring potatoes keep the pota- 
toes in cold water. 

Gruels are more tempting to the 
sick if whipped to a froth with an 
egg-beater before serving in a pretty 
cup. 

When baking cookies, use a large 
round pancake griddle to bake them 
on. First heat it on top of the range, 
and have it well greased. 

If a kitchen window is kept open 
two inches at the top while frying 
foods, boiling cabbage or other odor- 
ous vegetables, the unpleasant odor 
will go out of the window instead of 
spreading through the house. 

After boUing salt ham or tongue re- 
move it from the fire and plunge at 
once in cold water. This instantly 
loosens the skin, which then puUs off 
without any trouble. Treat beets the 
same way. 

Try baking bread in a meat roaster 
with a top. This keeps the bread from 



browning on the upper side before it 
is done through — thus browning it 
evenly all over. 

Prune pies are improved by adding 
one teaspoonful of vinegar to each 
pie. Prunes are rather flat tasting so 
the vinegar cuts the sweetness. 




Back to Set Under Hot Kettles. 

On making cake when fresh milk, 
buttermilk, molasses, and sour milk, 
are lacking, use a cup of apple sauce 
into which has been stirred a tea- 
spoonful of baking soda. Besides be- 
ing an excellent substitute, the sauce 
makes a delicious spice cake, and 
without eggs, too. 

When spreading butter on sand- 
wiches or toast, do not try to soften 
the butter, but heat a silver knife by 
placing it in boiling water. The diffi- 
culty is overcome at once. 

When a recipe calls for sugar and 
flour, instead of moistening the flour 
with water or milk, stir flour and sug- 
ar together in the dry state. Then no 
lumps wiU be seen. 

If one cannot afford much cream 
when making ice cream, a small quan- 
tity will go farther and be richer if 
wMpped or scalded. In summer, milk 
sherbet, made with lemons and gela- 
tin, is inexpensive, very delicious, and 
a refreshing substitute for cream. 

Much can be done at night in prep- 
aration for breakfast. For instance, 
if baked potatoes are to be included 
in the meim, wash them ; and sift flour 
or meal for muffins. 

When we bake apples in the usual 
way, after coring and putting in sug- 
ar and water, the juice runs into the 



254 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



dish and^is burned or wasted, as it 
naturally will not stay in the hole. Af- 
ter coring, cut the apple in two, and 
make the center of the trench in the 
apple deeper ; fill it with sugar, laying 
the cut half of each one upwards. 

To economize stove space when 
making rice soup I place a cup con- 
taining the rice in the soup kettle. It 
serves the purpose of a double boiler. 
It also prevents scorching or the soup 
boiling over, the latter generally being 
caused by the addition of rice. 

To keep cheese moist, wrap it in a 
soft cloth wrung out of vinegar, and 
keep in an earthen jar, with the cover 
slightly raised. 

To clean lettuce is often a nuisance, 
because of tiny green insects or their 
eggs in it. Turn on • the cold water 
faucet slightly, put your thumb 
against it so the stream squirts with 
force, and hold each leaf, with the 
broad end in the hand, under the water 
for a few seconds. Rinse, and it is 
ready for the table. 

In the cooking departments of wom- 
en's magazines, I find one class of 
housekeepers completely ignored, per- 
haps unwittingly. It comprises the 
millions who inhabit lofty plateaus 
and mountains. Perhaps lowland 
women do not know that we who 
come to these high altitudes (Tellur- 
ide, Colorado), have to learn aU over 
again how to cook. I have seen hun- 
dreds of recipes in cookbooks and 
magazines that would fail altogether 
here. For instance — I have boiled po- 
tatoes in Ohio (near the sea level) in 
twenty-five minutes. In Denver, at an 
altitude of five thousand feet, it takes 
thirty-five minutes. In Leadville, Col- 
orado, at ten thousand feet, forty-five 
minutes. This is because of water 
boiling at a lower temperature in 
high altitudes. Where I now live, at 
an altitude of nine thousand feet, I 
boil potatoes nearly an hour in water 
merely at the boiling point, and find 
they are not tender, so the water must 



be much hotter than at the boiling 
point to cook them. Other vegetables 
must be cooked longer. It is impossi- 
ble to cook until tender some of the 
garden peas that are on sale here in 
the summer, and we have to depend 
almost wholly on factory canned peas. 

A woman must learn over again to 
bake cake if she has just come from 
a low altitude. No Eastern cookbook 
can be depended upon. The ladies of 
this town have published a cookbook 
of their own reliable recipes. It is 
eagerly bought by newcomers from 
low sdtitudes. In baking cake, you 
must use more flour and less short- 
ening. 

Nothing else sweetens vessels in 
which milk has been kept so well as a 
solution of baking soda and hot wa- 
ter, in the proportion of a level tea- 
spoonful to a quart of warm water. 
Let the solution stand in the vessels 
long enough to get cold. Pudding 
dishes or pots and pans which have 
been burned are easily cleaned this 
way. 

If the refrigerator is stored away 
and the cellar is warm from the heat- 
ing plant there, an excellent way to 
keep lettuce crisp and tender, is to 
wrap each head separately in a piece 
of old linen, wet in cold water. Mois- 
ten the linen every day, and you can 
keep lettuce for two weeks. The in- 
ner leaves will be yellow and crisp, 
and there will be no wasting of outer 
leaves. 

Sometimes it is impossible to obtain 
sour milk for a favorite dish. A 
mountain mine cook told me his meth- 
od of obtaining sour milk was to di- 
lute condensed milk, which is invaria- 
bly used at the mines, until it was 
like ordinary skimmed milk. • Then he 
added a little sugar, and kept it in a 
warm place until it soured, even dab- 
bered. 

When using lemons in a way that 
does not call for the rind, I pare off 
the yellow portion carefully, put it 



SOME KITCHEN KINKS 



S55 



through the meat chopper with the 
finest plate, and spread it out to dry. 
Then I put into a corded bottle, and 
it frequently saves grating peel when 
one is in a hurry, or makes a pleasant 
flavoring when a fresh lemon is not at 
hand. 

Wash and slice ten stalks of rhu- 
barb, cut and core three medium- 
sized apples, then stew apples and 
rhubarb together. Hang up in a jelly 
bag. For every pint of juice take a 
pint of sugar; boU till it jellies and 
pour into tumblers. 

If you cut cheese in long strips and 
put in a glass jar, screwing the 
lid on tight, it will keep fresh till 
the last bit is used. It can be kept 
in the ice box in this way without 
harming other food. 

When I use oranges or lemons, if 
the rind is fresh and wholesome, I 
pare it thin, so as to get none of the 
bitter white inner skin, and put it 
in a glass jar of granulated sugar. 
When the sugar has absorbed enough 
oil of the fruit skin to make it moist, 
it is ready to use for flavoring cakes, 
puddings, etc. The bits of rind give 
a delicious flavor to pudding sauces. 

If you wish to prevent citron, 
raisins, or currants from sinking to 
the bottom of your cake, have them 
well warmed in the oven before add- 
ing them to the batter. 

When spinach and dandelion are 
expensive, try cooking celery leaves 
exactly as you would other greens, 
boiling them in salted water, then 
chopping slightly and seasoning with 
butter, pepper, and salt. By saving 
the leaves from three or four bunches 
and keeping them bouquet fashion, 
with their stalks in water, you may 
soon accumulate enough leaves for a 
small, savory dish of celery greens. 

Here are some uses for salt: To 
beat eggs quickly add a pinch of salt. 
This also applies when whipping 



cream. Place salt in the oven under 
the baking tins, in order to prevent 
the scorching of their contents. Put 
salt in the water when you wish to 
cool a dish quickly. Use salt to re- 
move ink stains from carpet, when 
the ink is fresh. Salt sprinkled on the 
pantry shelves will drive away ants. 

Before cooking mushrooms I al- 
ways distinguish them from poison- 
ous fungi by sprinkling salt on the 
spongy part, or gills. If they turn 
yellow, they are poisonous; if black, 
they are wholesome. 

Boil oyster plant, parsnips, and 
such vegetables, with thin skins on; 
then peel when cold. The flavor is 
preserved and your hands are not 
stained. 

For boiling meats I always use a 
lard can in preference to a kettle. 
For a smaller piece of meat, or a 
chicken, there is nothing better than 
a tin bucket with a tight-fitting cover. 
It confines the steam and not only 
cooks more quickly, but the meat is 
juicier and more tender. 

When poaching eggs add a little 
vinegar tb the water, besides salt. 
This sets the eggs and keeps them 
in good shape. 

A pinch of soda, put in green 
vegetables while they are boiling, acts 
like magic. It makes string-beans 
deliciously tender; it keeps the fine 
color of spring peas, while a more 
generous pinch performs a miracle for 
cabbage, causing it to cook in about 
half the usual time, and keeping it as 
fresh and green as when it came from 
the garden. 

In making mayonnaise, I find that 
using vinegar which has been poured 
over pickles, beets, or cucumberg. In- 
stead of fresh vinegar, adds a pleas- 
ant flavor to salads. 

If pastry is considered unwhole- 
some, those who are fond of pump- 



256 



MRS. CURTIS'S COOKBOOK 



kin or squash pies will find a good 
substitute by baking them as cus- 
tards. I uie the same recipe as for 
it filling for a pie, only add a little 
more milk, then bake it in custard 
cups set in a pan of water. The re- 
sult is a creamy, delicious dessert. 

When steaming a pudding, place 
the steamer over the saucepan in 
which you are boiling potatoes. One 
gas burner will cook both pudding 
and potatoes. 

When beating eggs separately beat 
the white first, then "steal" a little 
bit of it to start the yolks. The re- 
sult is .the yolks will not stick to the 
beater, as is generally the case, and 
they will get light twice as quickly. 

To insure success with salt-rising 
bread in cold weather, keep the night 
yeast in a box of hay. A small wooden 
box with a close-fitting lid is best for 
this purpose. Put hay into the bot- 
tom of the box and around the sides. 
In the middle of this set your yeast, 
then cover with hay. This will keep 
the yeast from a chill. Good bread 
will be the result. 

When serving afternoon tea, try 
using slices of orange instead of the 
inevitable lemon. The flavor is very 
delicious, especially when combined 
with green tea. Fresh sliced cucum- 
bers also give an agreeable flavor to 
hot tea if a dash of rum be added to 
the beverage. 

Set a glass of jelly in a pan of 
boiling water for two minutes or 
more. Let the water reach to the 
top of the glass. Then plimge into 
cold water. Take it out of that im- 
mediately and turn bottom up on a. 
cut-glass nappy or saucer. It will be 
prettily molded. 

To grind coffee and soak it some 
hours before boiling is a decided 
economy, but it nmst not be soaked 
in the pot. The acid in the coffee 
acting on the metal pot turns the 



coffee dark and gives it an unpleas- 
ant -flavor. Yon can easily test this 
at breakfast time by putting a drop 
of coffee on the steel carver. Soak 
the coffee in a closed earthen vessel. 

I save all paraffin paper from 
cracker boxes and cut it up to fit cake 
tins. After a pan is greased I put a 
sheet of paper in the bottom, and it 
keeps the cake from sticking to the 
pan. It is better to let the paper 
stay on cake after it is baked, until it 
is cold, unless frosting is to be used. 

Corn-meal mush will brown very 
quickly when fried, if a little sugar 
is put in the water while boiling. 

When mixing mustard, add a few 
drops of oil or sweet oU. This will 
prevent the unsightly black surface 
of the interior of your mustard jar. 
The paste will retain its original 
bright yellow color as long as a par- 
ticle remains. 

New popcorn, or popcorn that is 
damp, should not be dried out before 
popping, as is usually done. If you 
have recently gathered your corn, or 
if it has been left in a damp room, 
and you wish to use it right away,, 
shell a few ears and put it in a bowl 
of water for ten minutes. It will pop 
readily, and the flakes will be crisp 
and nice. 

When picking a fowl, particularly 
if there are many pin feathers, the 
work can be simplified by plunging it 
into hot water for a few seconds, 
then wrapping in a piece of burlap 
and allowing it to stand for three or 
four minutes. When picking, imcover 
only a portion at a time, so that the 
rest will remain warm and damp, and 
the feathers, great and small, can be 
stripped off in an amazingly short 
time. 

Use lemon ped, after the juice has 
been partly squeezed out, to rub 
stains from silverware; also to re- 
move fruit stains from your fingers. 



SOME KITCHEN KINKS 



257 



If you do not want liquor in your 
mince meat, use one pint of clear, 
strong coffee to each gallon of mince 
meat. 

Warm jelly glasses before "putting 
in the jelly, as it helps it to thicken, 
or set them in the sun. 



As a relish and a garnish to serve 
with a light meat course, such as 
chicken croquettes or timbales, noth- 
ing is more refreshing than small in- 
dividual molds of very tart lemon 
jelly, in which are molded a few nut 
meats. The jelly can be tinted to 
carry out any color scheme. 



INDEX 



Aigie diouz, 189. 
Almond cream, 199, 248. 

tart, 249. 
Amber cream, 247. 
Anchovy and cheese sandwiches, 47. 
Angel cake, 226. 
glace, 205. 

food pudding, 250. 
Apple and sausage, 129. 

cake, 25. 

celery and nut salad, 169. 

custard pudding, 177. 

dowdy, 178. 

pie, 209. 
with pineapple flavor, 211. 

pudding, steamed, 186. 

sauce cake, 229. 

sherbet, 194. 

tapioca, 184. 

water ice, 192. 
Apricot cream, 200. 

pudding, 179, 201. 

puree, 204. 

sherbet, 194. 
Arrowroot cream, 199. 
Artichokes a la creme, 153. 
Asparagus cream soup, 76. 

tips in cream, 145. 
Aspic salad, 174. 
Aunt Dinah's cake, 219. 

Bacon and calf s liver, 123. 

and mush, fried, 57. 
Baked-bean rarebit, 158. 
salad, 175. 
sandwiches, 156. 
soup, 157. 
chocolate custard, 185. 
salt herring, 94. 
Baking powder, a word about, 37. 
Baking-powder breads, 29. 
bannocks, 33. 



Baking-powder batter bread, 29. 

cakes, 36. 
biscuits, 29, 36. 

drop, 29. 

egg, 30, 34. 

Graham, 30. 

Maryland, 34. 

Mrs. Vessey's brown, 249. 

nut, 31. 

spoon, 39. 

Vienna, 31. * . 

cakes, flannel, 29. 

corn, 30. 

no-egg, wheat, 32. 
com, 36. 
gems, entire-wheat, 36. 

hominy, 34. 

rye, 31. 
Graham loaf, steamed, 35. 
griddlecakes, 39. 

blueberry, 32. 

Graham, 34. 

Indian, 33. 

jam, 32. 

one-egg, 33. 

whole wheat, 33. 
muffins, berry, 32. 

com, 32. 

Graham, 32. 

griddled, 33. 

ground-rice, 31. 

twin-mountain, 31. 

whole-wheat, 36. 
oat cakes, 35. 
pancakes, French, 33. 
popovers, 34. 
rice or hominy griddlecakes or muf 

fins, 36. 
Sally Lunn, 30. 
scones, Pitcaithley, 34. 
shortcake, 29. 
«lappers, 32. 



259 



260 



INDEX 



Baking-powder sour-milk doughnuts, Sp. 

spider corn-cake, 36. 

Sunday-morning loaf, 35. 

waffles, 30. 

Woodlawn brown, 35. 
Banana cake, 229. 

cream, 200. 

pie, 212. 

sherbet, 194. 
Bananas and tapioca, 182, 
Bannocks, 33. 
Barberry water ice, 193. 
Barley broth, 71. 
Batter bread, 29. 

cakes, 36. 
Bavarian salad, 170. 
Bean soup, old-fashioned, 79. 
Beans 4 la Bretonne, 153, 155. 

a la Poulette, 153, 155. 

dried, sauted, 146. 

in a casserole, 150. 

with gravy, 152i 
Beef, 100. 

a la mode, 105. 

bouilli, 105. 

braised, 102. 

coUops, hot, 107. 

corned, and cabbage, 103. 

deviled, 112. 

fillet of, 103. 

flank a la Milanaise, 106. 

frankforts, creamed, 110. 

fricassee, 112. 

frizzled dried, 109. 
with poached eggs, 61. 

goulash, 106. 

gumbo, 73. 

hash, 113. 

heart saute, 108. 

kidney a la Baden-Baden, 109. 

kidney, Hungarian, 109. 

kidneys, broiled, 109. 

meat pie, London, 105. 

New England boiled dinner, 242. 

omelet, 104. 

oxtail, savory, 109. 

oxtails, fricassee, 109. 

ragout, 106. 

with tomato, 112. 

rissoles, 114. 



Beef, roast, 102. 
roast, gravy, 102. 
steak a la Bordelaise, 103. 

a la Victor Hugo, 104. 

and onions, 104. 

casserole of, 102. 

Hamburg, 103. 

pie, 104. 

pudding, 105. 

savory, 105. 

to broil a, 102. 
stew, 241. 

with dumplings, 103. 
stewed heart, 108. 

sweetbreads and macaroni sauce, 107. 
tongue, boiled, 107. 
tripe a la Creole, 107. 

a la I'Espagnole, 107. 

and onions, 108. 

curried, 107. 

Lyonnaise, 107. 

stewed, and tomato sauce, 108. 

with oysters, 108. 
Beer, ginger, 11. 
Beet and cabbage salad, 174. 
greens, 145. 
salad in cups, 172. 
Beets with butter, 151. 
Beignets of buns, 43. 
Beverages, 9. 
beer, ginger, 11. 
black-currant cup, 12. 
Ching-Ching, 12. 
chocolate-cream nectar, 12. 

afternoon, 10. 

sirup, 14. 
cider, mulled, 11. 
cocoa, 10. 

nibs or shells, 11. 
coflEee, boiled, 9. 

French, 9. 

iced, with orange flavor, 12. 
cream soda, 12. 
eggnog, cider, 14. 
fruit beverage, 13. 

cup, 12. 
ginger pop, 11. 
lemonade, 15, 

egg, 12. 

picnic, 13. 



INDEX 



261 



Beverages, lemonade, pineapple, 13. 
portable, 12. 
sparkling, 14. 
mint ale, 14. 

cup, old Colonial, 15. 
fizzle, 13. 
punch, delicious fruit, 245. 
fruit, 10. 
ginger, 15. 
lime, 10. 
piazza, 10. 
pineapple, 10. 
raspberry and currant, 11. 
red-currant, 14. 
tea, 11. 
tutti-frutti, 14. 
Taspberry shrub, 13. 

vinegar, 11. 
tea, 10. 

Russian, 13. 
wine, elder-blossom, 13. 
Biscuit spoon, 39. 
Biscuits, 36. 

baking-powder, 29. 
drop, 29. 
egg, 30, 34. 
Graham, 30. 
Maryland, 34. 
nut, 31. 
Vienna, 31. 
Bisque ice cream, 198. 
lobster, 77. 
oyster, 77. 
Black angel cake, 228. 
bean soup, 78. 
currant cup, 12. 
Blackberry ice cream, 200. 
jam cake, 219. 
sherbet, 195. 
Blancmange, chocolate, 185. 

grape, 183. 
Bluefish, baked, 85. 

with tomato sauce, 85. 
salad, 91. 
Bobble gash, 127. 
Boston cookies, 215. 
pork and beans, 127. 
sandwiches, 47. 
Bouillabaise, 75. 
Bouillon, tomato, with oysters, 73. 



Braised beef, 102. 
Bread, 16. 

brown, brewis, 41. 

caraway, 20. 

corn, 36. 

commeal, 21. 

croquettes, 43. 

crumb, buckwheat cakes, 42. 

dressing, 136. 

entire-wheat, 20. 

Federal, 23. 

fruit, 22. 

Graham, 21. 

griddlecakes, 43. 

Ereuznach horns, 27. 

made with dry yeast, 22. 

Mrs. Vessey's brown, 249. 

nut, 22. 

oatmeal, 21. 

omelet, 64. 

plum pudding, 176. 

pudding with raspberry sauce, 178. 

rice, 23, 56. ' 

roulettes, 43. 

lye, 21. 
and Indian, 22. 

salt rising, 23. 

sauce, 43. 

squash, 21. 

steamed, 41. 
corn, 249. 

Stockholm, 23. 

sweet potato, 23. 

water, 20. 
Breads made, from sour milk, 35. 
Breakfast gems, 246. 
Brewis, brown bread, 41. 

white bread, 42. 
Broiche, 27. 
Broth, barley, 71. 

mutton, 67, 72. 

sheep's-head, 72. 

sportsman's, 79. 
Brown bread brewis, 41. 

cream toast with cheese, 42. 
ice cream, 199. 
pudding, 179. 
sauted, 42. 
Brussels sprouts, blanched, 148. 
sauted, 149. 



262 



INDEX 



Buckwheat cakes, 95. 
bread crumb, 42. 
Buns, English Bath, 26. 

hot cross, 24. 

raspberry, 260. 
Burnt-ahnond cream, 199. 



Cabbage and beet salad, 174. 
and potato puree, 148. 
boiled, 148. 

cooked with pork, 148. 
creamed, 148. 
Grand Union, 171. 
jeUy, 158. 
Cabinet pudding, 181. 
Cake, 221, 222. 
almond tart, 249. 
angel, 226. 
apple, 25. 

sauce, 229. 
banana, 229. 
black angel, 228. 
chocolate, 225. 

layer, 225. 

marshmallow, 226. 

snow, 232. 
cider, 230. 
citron, 230. 
cocoanut, 227. 

and citron, 230. 
cocoa sponge, 225. 
coffee, 226. 
devil's food, 225. 
favorite, 246. 
feather, 223. 
five-egg orange, 244. 
fudge, 223. 

frosting, 223. 
geranium, 229. 
gingerbread with chocolate glac£, 228. 

with whipped cream, 228. 
gold, 231. 
ground-rice, 231. 
hickory, 231. 
homemade wedding, 232. 
huckleberry, 230. 
jelly rolls, 231. 
Lady Baltimore, 227. 
layer, 224. 



Cake, lemon sponge, 22S. 

queen, 229. 
marble, 224. 

Mrs. Fernald's chocolate, 248. 
Neapolitan, 230. 
New England raspberry, 227. 
nursery, 224. 

old-fashioned pound, 246. 
orange, 227. 
pinafore, 247. 
plain wedding, 224. 
pork, 228. 
pound, 226. 
quick, 228. 

raised, old-fashioned, 282. 
ribbon, 224. 
Spanish, 226. 
spice, 224. 
sunshine, 227. 
surprise, 224. 
walnut mocha, 230. 
white fruit, 229. 

loaf, 249. 
Cake fillings and icings, 234. 
caramel filling, 234. 

frosting, 236. 
chocolate-cream filling, 234. 

frosting, 235. 
coffee frosting, 236. 
decorating icing, 236. 
egg icings, 235. 
fondant icing, 236. 
maple-cream filling, 234. 

sugar frosting, 236. 
orange filling, 234. 

frosting, 236. 
peach filling, 235. 
plain icings, 235. 
red-raspberry filling, 236. 
tutti-frutti filling, 236. 
whipped-cream filling, 234. 
White-Mountain icings, 235. 
Cakes, buckwheat, 26. 

entire, 25. 
drop, 246. 
flannel, 29. 
Lancashire tea, 26. 
Mrs. Cosgrove's potato, 260. 
no-egg wheat, 32. 
raised batter. 25. 



INDEX 



S«3 



Cakes made from sour milk, 218. 

Aunt Dinah's, 219. 

blackberry jam, 219. 

cocoa, 218. 

crumb gingerbread, 219. 

devil's, 218. 

dried-apple, 218. 

holiday, 220. 

maple-sugar gingerbread, 220. 

marble layer, 220. 

sour-cream, Mrs. Moberly's, 218. 

spice, 218. 

training-day ginger, 219. 
Cakes raised by yeast, 232. 

English whigs, 233. 

Irish barn bake, 233. 

loaf cake without eggs, 233. 

Long Meadow loaf, 233. 

old-fashioned raised, 232. 

Yorkshire, 233. 
Calf s Uver and bacon, 123. 

terrapin with mushrooms, 125. 

tongue with tomato sauce, 122. 
Camp salad, 169. 
Candy, 245. 
Cangrejueloe, 99. 
Caramel cream, 199. 

filling, 234. 

frosting, 236. 

pudding, 179. 
Carrots with white sauce, 151. 
Casserole, chicken, 134. 

of beefsteak, 102. 
Catsup cream dressing, 168. 
Cauliflower and potato salad, 174. 

au fromage, 159. 

boiled, 148. 

browned, 150. 

salad, 172. 

savory, 159. 
Celery and chicken sandwiches, 46. 

and macaroni, 58. 

apple and nut salad, 169. 

cream, 73. 

stewed, 151. 
Cereal, cracked-wheat, 54. 

cream-of-wheat, 54. 

entrades, 53. 

hominy in cream sauce, 58. 
fine, 54. 



Cereal, hominy mush, 50. 
Indian-meal, 54. 
leftovers, 55. 
macaroni k la Napolitaine, 52. 

and celery, 58. 

and chicken, 58. 

baked, 53. 

creamed on toast, 58. 

ravioh, 52. 

savory, 58. 

Siciliana, 51. 

with tomatoes, 52. 
Manana land, 51. 
oatmeal, 53. 

porridge, 50. 
oats, Quaker, 53. 

rolled, 50. 
rice k la Creole, 60. 

boiled^ 50. 

Milanaise fashion, 51. 

steamed, 50. 

timbales, 50. 

with cheese, 55. 
spaghetti a la Italien, 51. 

pignaute, 53. 

with cheese, 52. 

with chicken, 52. 
Turkish pilaf, 50. 
with fruit, 49. 
Cereals and flour pastes, 49. 
Charlotte, chocolate, 185. 

russe, 186. 
Cheese and anchovy sandwiches, 47. 
and olive sandwiches, 47. 
and walnut sandwiches, 47. 
omelet, 65. 
sandwiches, 47. 
straw, 208. 
Cherry pie, 209. 

sherbet, 194. 
Chesterfield cream, 201. 
Chicken and celery sandwichei, 46. 
and English walnut salad, 171. 
and ham mold, 137. 
and macaroni, 58, 138. 
and pepper salad, 173. 
baked with milk, 134. 
braised, 133. 
broiled, 134. 
chowder, 78. 



264 



INDEX 



Chicken, -creamed and sweetbreads, 135. 

croquettes, 138. 

friar's, 72. 

fried, 135. 

gallosch, 138. 

grilled, 134. 

in casserole, 134. 

molded with mayonnaise^ 171. 

omelet, 137. 

panned, 134. 

pie, 135. 
Mrs. Dawson's, 247. 

roasted, 136. 

salad dressing, 168. 

soufiSe, 138. 

soup, 71. 

with almond sauce, 135. 

with dumplings, 134. 

with peanuts, 135. 

with spaghetti, 52. 
Chifionade salad, 174. 
Chilecon came, 147. 
Ching Ching, 12. 
Chocolat mousse, 205. 
Chocolate, afternoon, 10. 

blancmange, 185. 

cake, 225. 
Mrs. Femald's, 248. 

charlotte, 185. 

cookies, 215, 246. 

cream, 200. 
filling, 234. 
nectar, 12. 
pie, 213. 

custard, frozen, 203. 

dominoes, 214. 

fingers. 217. 

frosting, 235. 

frozen, with whipped cream, 204. 

hearts, 215. 

layer cake, 225. 

marshmallow cake, 226. 

pie, 213. 

pudding, 185. 

sauce, 188. 
to serve with vanilla ice cream, 205. 

sirup, 14. 

snow cake, 232. 

soufQe, 178. 

Spanish cream, 185. 



Chocolate strips, 217. 

tapioca, 184. 

whips, 179. 
Chops, breaded, 116. 

lamb, broiled, 117. 

mutton, stufied, 117. 
Chop suey, 242. 
Chou£9eurs, au gratin, 158. 
Chowder, chicken, 78. 

clam, 79. 

com, 77. 

fish, 70. 

lobster, 77. 

onion, 79. 

salt-codfish, 93. 
Christmas fruit cookies, 215. 
Cider cake, 230. 

eggnog, 14. 

ice, 192. 

mulled, 11. 
Cidracayote, 152. 
Cinnamon strips, 217. 
Citron cake, 230. 
Clam chowder, 79. 

fritters, 95. 

salad, 91. 

soup, 78. 
Clams, 95. 

a Ja Newburg, 96. 

escalloped, 96. 

fried, 95. 

in Vienna rolls, 95. 

roast, 95. 
Cock-a-Leekie, 72. 
Cocktail quahog, 95. 
Cocoa, 10. 

cak^ 218. 

nibs or shell, 11. 

sponge, 225. 
Cocoanut and citron cake, 230. 

cake, 227. 

cream, 198. 
tapioca, 183. 

pie, 212. 

pudding, 179. 

sponge pudding, 180. 
Cod, fresh baked, with cheese sauce, 85. 

steaks a la cardinal, 86. 
Codfish and potato omelet, 92. 

balls, 93. 



INDEX 



265 



CodSsh, creamed, salt, 92. 

fritters. 92. 

salt, 92. 

sou£Se, 93. 

soused in oyster sauce, 87. 

toaster, 94. 

with macaroni, 93. 
Coffee, boiled, 9. 

cake, 226. 
German, 28. 

cream, 197. 

custard, frozen, 203. 

frappe, 196. 

French, 9. 

frosting, 236. 

iced, with orange flavor, 12. 

jelly, 183. 

tapioca, 184. 
Cold Sauces. 

creamy, 190. 

pistachio, 190. 

plain hot, 190. 

whipped cream, 190. 
Cold slaw, fried with oysters, 96. 
Collops, hot, 107. 
Compote of orange, 204. 
Consomme, 68. 
Continental pudding, 205. 
Cooked salad dressing, 168. 
Cookies, cakes and doughnuts, 214. 

Boston, 215. 

Christmas frnit, 215. 

chocolate, 215, 246. 
dominoes, 214. 
fingers, 217. 
hearts, 215. 
strips, 217. 

cinnamon strips, 217. 

cream for cream cakes and eclairs, 
216. 

eclairs, 216. 

egg cookies, 215. 

ginger snaps, 214. 

Hamburg, 245. 

icing for chocolate fingers, 217. 

macaroons, 217. 

maple hermit, 214. 

nun's gem, 217. 

Oklahoma rocks, 215. 

one, two, three, four, 216. 



Cookies, sour-cream, 214. 

springerlen, 216. 

sugar, 214. 
Cold sauce puddings, 190. 

creamy sauce, 190. 

egg sauce for pudding, 190. 

jelly sauce, 190. 

pistachio cream, 190. 

plain hot sauce, 190. 

whipped-cream sauce, 190. 
Corn bread, 36. 

boiled on the cob, 152. 

cakes, 30. 

chowder, 77. 

cream, soup, 74. 

custard, 147. 

cut from cob, 152. 

fried, 154. 

fritters, 158. 

omelet, 158. 

patties, garnished with husks, 154. 

soup, 156. 

steamed, 249. 
Corned beef and cabbage, 103. 
creamed, au gratin, 113. 
Cornmeal and rice muffins, 56. 

bread, 21. 
Cottage pudding, 186. 
Crab salad, 169. 

sandwiches, 46. 
Crabs a la Creole, 99. 

soft-shell, 99. 
Cracked wheat, 54. 
Cream cakes, 216. 

cake filling and icing, 234. 

cocoanut tapioca, 183. 

dressing, 168. 

fiUing, 234. 

for cream cakes and eclairs, 216. 

horns, 208. 

in a crust, 180. 

of com soup, 157. 

of onion soup, 74. 

of wheat, 54. 

sauce, whipped, 190. 

soda, 12. 

toast with cheese, brown bread, 42 
Creamy sauce, 190. 
Creme d' Amanda sauce, 189. 
Croquettes, Block Island, 132, 



INDEX 



Croquettes, bread, 43. 

egg, 63. 

Iamb and rice, 119. 

lobster, 91. 

macaroni, 59. 

rice, 57. 

sahnon, 91. 

sweet-potato, 162. 

Windermere, 125. 
Crumb gingerbread, 219. 

lemon pie, 210. 

pudding, 181. 
Cucumber mangoes, 248. 

and tomato salad in cucumbers, 169. 

salad, 171. 

sandwiches, 48. 

sauted, 149. 
Cucumbers and shad-roe salad, 173 

stewed, 151. 

stuffed and white sauce, 147. 
Currant and raspberry punch, 11. 
sherbet, 194. 

jelly sauce, 189. 

rquares, 26. 

water ice, 192. 
Curried lamb's liver, 118. 
Curry of eggs, 63. 

of lobsters, 97. 
Custard cup, 243. 

frozen chocolate, 203. 
coffee, 203. 

pie, 210. 

Danish pudding, 183. 
Date pie, 211. 
Decorating icing, 236. 
Devil's cake, 218. 

food, 225. 
Doughnuts, raised, 28. 

sour-milk, 39. 
Dressing or Sauces for Salads. 

catsup cream dressing, 168. 

chicken-salad dressing, 168. 

cooked-salad dressing, 168. 

cream dressing, 168. 

French dressing, 168. 

oil dressing, boiled, 168. 

sour-cream dressing, 168. 
Dried-apple cake, 218. 
pie, 212. 



Dried-bean soup, 76. 
Duck, roasted, 136. 

£clau-s, 216. 
Egg cookies, 215. 
icings, 235. 
salad, 172. 

sauce for pudding, 190. 
Eggnog, cider, 14. 
Eggplant, baked, 151. 
broiled, 152. 
fried, 152. 
Eggs a la Bonne Femme, 62. 
a la Cuba, 63. 
and mushrooms, 61. 
baked in green peppers, 61. 
souffle, 62. 

in tomatoes, 61. 
boiled, 62. 
cheesed, 62. 
croquettes, 63. 
curry of, 63. 
deviled, 63. 
farci, 63. 
fricasseed, 65. 
fried, 62. 

with brown sauce, 62. 
in nests, 62. 
in ramequins, 61. 
in tomato sauce, 61. 
Lucanian, 63. 
omelet, Bismarck, 65. 

bread, 64. 

cheese, 65. 

Chassi, 64. 

ham, 65. 

oyster, 64. 

parsley, 65. 

plain, 64. 

Rudolph, 64. 
on rice, 61. 
poached, 60. 

ball-shaped, 60. 

in milk, 61. 

with greens, 62. 

with minced meat. 111. 
Rudolph omelet, 64. 
scrambled, 63. 
with bread sauce, 61. 
Ejotescon vino, 162. 



INDEX 



267 



Elder-blossom wine, 13. 
English pudding, 248. 

walnut and chicken salad, 171. 

Whigs, 233. 
Ensalada, 170. 
Entire-wheat bread, 20. 
Entrades, 53. 
Estilo seco, 152. 

Farina muffins, 57. 
Fatherland farm beef loaf, 113. 
Pig pie, 211. 

pudding, 178. 
Fillet of beef, 103. 
Pireless cookery, 237, 238, 23ft 
Fish, 81. 
blue, baked, 85. 

baked with tomato sauce, 85. 
bisque, 89. 
chowder, 70. 
clams, 95. 
cod, baked fresh, with cheese sauce, 85. 

and potato omelet, 92. 

balls, 93. 

creamed salt, 92. 

fritters, 92. 

salt, 92. 

souffle, 93. 

soused in oyster sauce, 87. 

steaks a la Cardinal, 86. 

toasted, 94. 

with macaroni, 93. 
crimped, 87. 
dressing, 88. 
flounder fillets h la Normandy, 86. 

souchet, 87. 
friadises, 90. 
haddie, broiled, 94. 

creamed, 94. 

Finnan, a la Delmonico, 94. 

shredded, 94. 
haddock, baked, 86. 
halibut, baked, 86. 
herring, baked salt, 94. 
how to bake, 84. 
how to broil, 84. 
how to fry; 84. 
how to plank, 84. 
how to saute, 84. 
mackerel, baked salt, 92. 



Fish, mackerel, boiled salt, 92. 
broiled salt, 92. 
stufied salt, 92. 
methods for cooking, 83. 
perch, Hampton Qjurt, 87. 
puS balls, 91. 
red snapper, baked, 85. 
salmon, broiled, salt halibut, 92. 
curried, 90. 
loaf, 90. 

trout, baked, with cream, 86. 
salt, 93. 
cod chowder, 93. 
how to cook, 92. 
shad, baked, 87. 
roe, baked, 88. 
smelts, baked, 86. 

brochet, 87. 
spiced, 91. 

sturgeon, to roast^ 87. 
timbales, 86. 
trout, broiled brook, 88. 
turbot, broiled, 87. 
white, baked, 87. 
Flaky pie crust, 208. 
Flank k la Milanaise, 106. 
Flounder fillets h la Normandy, 86. 
Flounders, souchet, 87. 
Fluflf pudding, 182. 
Foamy sauce, 188. 
Fondant icing, 236. 
Frankforts, creamed, 110. 
Frappe, 192. 
French dressing, 168. 
Fried bread, 42. 

scallops, 99. 
Fritters, clam, 95. 

codfish, 92. 
Frozen apricots, 196. 
bananas, 196. 
cherries, 197. 
chocolate custard, 203. 

with whipped cream, 204. 
coffee custard, 203. 
custard, 202. 
frappe, 192. 
fruit cake glace, 206. 
fruits, 192. 
gelatin cream, 199. 
ginger cream, 198, 



268 



INDEX 



Frozen ginger sherbet, 194. 
water ice barberry, 193. 
grape water ice, 193. 
iced chocolate, 195. 

coffee, 195. 
ice cream from condensed milk, 199. 
iced lemonade, 196. 

raspberry vinegar, 196. 

rice pudding, 203. 
Italian tutti-frutti, 193. 
lemon cream, 197. 

sherbet, 193. 

sherbet with gelatin, 194. 

water ice, 193. 
macedoine of fruit, 201. 
mandarin cream, 200. - 
milk sherbet, 196. 
Montrose pudding, 204. 
mousse (parfait or fruit pudding), 192. 
Nesselrode pudding, 203. 
orange granite, 196. , 

ice, 192. 

mousse, 202. 

sherbet, 194. 

souffle 201. 
parfait, Mrs. Prouty's maple, 249. 
peach cream, 200. 

sherbet, 195. 
peaches, 197. 

Philadelphia ice cream, 192. 
pineapple cream, 198. 

mousse, 202. 

sherbet, 194. 

water ice, 192. 
pineapples, 197. 
pistachio cream, 198. 
plombiere, 204. 
plum pudding, 205. 
pomegranate sherbet, 196. 

water ice, 193. 
Pomona sherbet, 196. 
pudding, 202. 
punch, 192. 
puree of apricots, 204. 
queen pudding, 201. 
quince water ice, 193. 
raspberries, 197. 
raspberry cream, 200. 

and currant sherbet, 194. 

jam cream, 199, 



Frozen, raspberry, water ice, 192. 
sherbet, 192. 
strawberries, 197. 
strawberry granite, 196. 

ice cream, 198. 

sherbet, 195. 

souffle, 202. 

water ice, 192. 
stuffed mousse, 203. 
tutti-frutti, 202. 
vanilla cream with extracl^ 198. 

ice cream, 197. 

sauce, 204. 
water ice, 191. 
Frozen desserts, 191. 
almond cream, 199. 
angel cake glace, 205. 
apple sherbet, 194. 
; water ice, 192. 
apricot cream, 200. 
. pudding, 201. 

sherbet, 194. 
arrowroot cream, 199. 
banana cream, 200. 

sherbet, 194. 
barberry water ice, 193. 
bisque ice cream, 198. 
blackberry ice cream, 200. 

sherbet, 195. 
brown-bread ice cream, 199. 
burnt-almond cream, 199. 
caramel cream, 199. 
cherry sherbet, 194. 
Chesterfield cream, 201. 
chocolate cream, 200. 

mousse, 205. 

sauce f» serve with vanilja ice cream. 
205. 
cider ice, 192. 
cocoanut cream, 198. 
coffee cream, 197. 

frappe, 196. 
compote of orange, 204. 
continental pudding, 205. 
currant water ice, 192. 
Fruit beverage, 13. 
bread, 22. 
cake glace, 206. 
cup, 12. 
pudding or parfait mousse, 192. 



INDEX 



Fruit punch, 10. 

sauce, 188. 
Fudge cake, 223. 

frostiiig, 223. 



Garcia salad, 170. 
Gelatin cream, 199. 
Gems, entire-wheat, 36. 

hominy, 34. 

rice, 56. 

rye, 31. 
Geranium cake, 329. 
German cherry pie, 211. 
Gingerbread, Tillie's, 245. 

with chocolate glaze, 228. 

with whipped cream, 228. 
Ginger beer, 11. 

cream, 198. 

pop. 11. 

punch, 15. 

sherbet, 194. 

snaps, 214. 

water ice, 193. 
Gold cake, 231. 
Gooseberry pie, 211. 
Graham biscuits, 30. 

bread, 21. 
made from sour milk, 39. 

griddlecakes, 34. 

loaf, steamed, 35. 
Grand Union cabbage, 171. 
Grape blancmange, 183. 

water ice, 192. 
Gravy, roast beef, 102. 
Green-currant pie, 211. 

pea soup, 76, 159. 

peppers, hashed with potatoes, 147. 
stuffed, 150. 
Griddlecakes, 39. 

blueberry, 32. 

bread, 43. 

Graham, 34. 

ham, 131. 

hominy, 58. 

Indian, 33. 

jam, 32. 

one-egg, 33. 

rice, 56. 

whole-wheat, 33. 



Grilled slices of beef with Creole sauce, 

112. 
Ground-rice cake, 231. 
Gumbo, beef, 73. 
okra, 73. 

Haddie, broiled, 94. 
creamed, 94. 

Finnan a la Dehnonico, M. 
shredded, 94. 
Haddock, baked, 86. 
Halibut, baked, 86. 
boudins, 90. 
ramequins, 90. 
salad, 91. 

salt, or salmon, broiled, 92. 
Ham-and-chicken mold, 137. 
and-potato pie, 132. 
balls, 131. 
boiled, 241. 

and eggs, 129. 
griddlecakes, 131. 
omelet, 65. 
sandwiches, 132. 
shredded, 131. 
souffle, 131. 
steak, 129. 
toast, 181. 
to boil, 128. 
Hard sauce, 188. 
Hash, vegetable, 157. 
Hasty pudding, 49. 
Herb soup, 79. 
Herring, baked salt, 94. 
Hickory cake, 231. 
Holiday cake, 220. 
Homemade wedding cake, 23S. 
Hominy, fine, 54. 
gems, 34. 
griddlecakes, 58. 

or rice, or muffins, 36. 
in cream sauce, 58. 
mush, 50. 
Hot chocolate pudding, 184. 
Hot pudding sauces, 188. 
aigree diouz, 189. 
chocolate sauce, 188. 
creme d'amande sauce, 189. 
currant-jelly sauce, 189. 
foamy sauce, 188. 



270 



INDEX 



Hot fruit sauce, 188. 

hard sauce, 188. 

lemon sauce, 189. 

maple sauce, 189. 

orange sauce, 188, 189. 

soft custard, 189. 

strawberry sauce, 188. 

yanilla sauce, 189. 
Hotchpotch, 74. 
Huckleberry cake, 230. 

pudding, 182. 



Ice cream from condensed milk, 199. 
Iced chocolate, 195. 

coffee, 195. 

lemonade, 196. ' 
' raspberry vinegar, 196. 

rice pudding, 203. 
Icing for chocolate fingers, 217. 
Indian meal, 54. 

tapioca pudding, 184. 
Irish barn bake, 233. 
Italian tutti-frutti, 193. 



Jam pudding, 179. 
Jardiniere salad, 172. 
Jelly rolls, 231. 
sauce, 190. 

Eale boiled with pork, 149. 

minced, 149. 
Kartoffelklosse, 162. 
Kedgeree, 90. 
Kidney a la Baden-Baden, 109. 

Hungarian, 109. 

omelet, 123. 
Kidneys, broiled, 109. 

deviled, 118. 

a la Maitre d'Hotel, 118. 
Kitchen kinks, some, 232. 
Kohl-rabi, boiled, 151. 
Kreuznach horns, 27. 



Lady Baltimore cake, 227. 
Lamb and mutton, 115. 

boiled leg of, 115. 

broiled breast of, 115. 



Lamb chops, a la Boulangdre, 117. 
breaded, 116. 
broiled, 117. 
curry of, 116. 
fricassee, 118. 
in savory stew, 119. 
kidneys a la Maitre d'Hotel, 118. 
liver, curried, 118. 
mound, with peas, 119. 
mutton chops a la Cleveland, 117. 

haricot, 116. 

imitation barbecue, 115. 

stew, 115. 
pressed, 115. 
rice croquettes, 119. 
roast, 115. 
sandwiches, 46. 
stew, army, 116. 

heart, 118. 
stuffed shoulder, 115. 
Lamb's liver, curried, 118. 
Langasta a la Catalana, 98. 
Layer cake, 224. 
Leek soup, 74. 

Left-overs, baked bean, rarebit, 168. 
beef, deviled, 112. 

fricassee, 112. 

hash, 113. 

ragout, with tomato, 112. 
beignets of buns, 43. 
bread croquettes, 43. 

crumb buckwheat cakes, 42. 

griddlecakes, 43. 

rice, 56. 

roulettes, 43. 

sauce, 43. 
brown-bread brewis, 41. 

cream toast with cheese, 42. 
saute, 42. 
bubble and squeak. 111. 
cabbage jelly, 158. 
cauliflower au fromage, 159. 

savory, 159. 
chicken croquettes, 138. 

and ham mold, 137. 

and macaroni, 138. 

gallosch, 138. 

omelet, 137. 

souffle, 138. 
com beef, creamed au gratin, 113. 



INDEX 



271 



Left-overs, corn omelet, 158. 

fritters, 158. 
croquettes, Block Island, 132. 

lamb and rice, 119. 

lobster, 91. 

rice, 57. 

salmon, 91. 
Fatherland Farm beef loaf, 113. 
fish friandises, 90. 

pufi balls, 91. 

spiced, 91. 
fried bread, 42. 
gems, rice, 56. 
griddlecakes, hominy, 58. 

rice, 56. 
grilled sUces of beef, with Creole 

sauce, 112. 
halibut boudins, 90. 

ramequins, 90. 
ham-and-potato pie, 132. 

balls, 131. 

griddlecakes, 131. 

sandwiches, 132. 

shredded, 131. 

souffle, 131. 

toast, 131. 
heads and trotters, to prepare, 72. 
hominy muffins, raised, 58. 
kedgeree, 90. 
lamb, mound with peas, 119. 

in savory stew, 119. 
lettuce, wilted, 157. 
macaroni croquettes, 59. 
meat, minced with poached eggs. 111. 
mock terrapin, 112. 
muffins, farina, 57. 

hominy, raised, 58. 

oatmeal, 57. 

rice and commeal, 56. 
mush and bacon, fried, 57. 

fried, 57. 
nut balls, 125. 
omelet, asparagus, 159. 
onion souffle,,158. 
papas rellenas, 113. 
pork cutlets, 132. 
potato-and-tomato salad, 165. 

browned, 164. 

cold croquettes, 161. 

croquettes, 164. 



Left-overs, potato pufis, 164. 

scones, 165. 

whipped, 164. 
potatoes. Chartreuse, 164. 

creamed, 164. 

curried, 165. 

Delmonico, 163. 

duchesse, 164. 

glazed sweet, 165. 

hashed brown, 165. 

Hongroise, 161. 

Lyonnaise, 164. 

stewed, 164. 

sweet, 165. 

with hard-boiled eggs, 164. 

with lamb stuffing, 119. 
pudding, cream rice, 57. 
remains of boiled dinner, 113. 
rice, with date sauce, 56. 

with cheese crust, 55. 
roast beef, Pillau, 112. 
Robert sauce, 157. 
salad, halibut, 91. 
salad, sweet potato, 165. 
salmon salad molds, 91. 
sandwiches, baked bean, 156. 

in cream sauce, 42. 

left-over tongue, 114. 
soup, baked bean, 157. 

com, 156. 

cream of corn, 157. 

green pea, 159. 

Monday, 159. 

pea, 156. 
spinach in molds, 156. 

rechauffe, 158. 
steamed bread, 41. 
sweet potato au gratin, 165. 
croquettes, 162. 

potatoes, baked, 162. 
glazed, 162. 
in cream, 162. 
toast, 41. 

milk, 42. 

tomato, 43. 
toasted sandwiches, 41. 
tomatoes, scalloped, and onions, 159. 
turkey, scalloped, 137. 
vegetable hash, 157. 
vegetables, ciuried, 158. 



272 



INDEX 



Left-overs, waffles, rice, 56. 

white-bread brewis, 42. 
Lemonade, 15. 

egg, 12. 

picnic, 13. 

pineapple, 13. 

portable, 12. 

sparkling, 14. 
Lemon cream, 197. 

and-raisin pie, '211. 

meringue pudding, 177^ 

pie, 210. 

queen cake, 229. 

sauce, 189. 

sherbet, I'DS. 

with gelatita, 194. 

sponge cake, 225. 

water ice, 193. 
Lentils, baked, 146. 
Lettuce, boiled, 145. 

wated, 157. 

with peas, 145. 
Lima beans, green, 146. 
Lime punch, 10. 

Little notes about bread making, 19. 
Liver, braised caJf s, 123. 

broiled, 123, 

calf s, and bacon, 123. 

lamb's, curried, 118. 

stewed calf s, 123. 
Loaf cake without eggs, 233. 
Lobster bisque 77. 

breaded, 98. 

chowder, 77. 

croquettes, 91. 

ciury of, 97. 

French style, 98. 

sandwiches, 46. 
Lobsters a la Newburg, 98. 

creamed, 98. 

rissoles of, 98. 
Long Meadow loaf cake, 233. 



Macaroni k la Napolitana, 52. 
and chicken, 68, 138. 
and celery, 58. 
baked, 53. 

creamed, on toast, 58. 
croquettes, 59. 



Macaroni peppers, 147. 

ravioli, 52. 

savory, 58. 

Siciliana, 51. 

with codfish, 93. 

with tomatoes, 52. 
Macaroons, 217. 
Maced«>ine of fruit, 201. 
Mackerel, baked salt, 92. 

boiled salt, 92. 

broiled salt, 92. 

stuffed salt, 92. 
Manana Land, 51. 
Mandarin cream, 200. 
Mangoes, cucumber, 248. 
Maple-cream filling, 234. 

hermits, 214. 

parfait, Mrs. Proutey's, 249. 

sauce, 189. 

sugEtr frosting, 236. 
gingerbread, 220. 
Marble cake, 224. 

layer cake, 220. 
Marmalade pudding, 181. 

sponge cake, 180. 
Maryland biscuits, 34. 
Mayonnaise oil, 167. 
Meat, minced, with poached eggs, 111. 

pie, London, 105. 
Milk sherbet, 195. 

toast, 42. 
Mince meat, 213. 

Mrs. Knight's, 250. 
Mint al6, 14. 

fizzle, 13. 
Mock crab sandwiches, 47. 

terrapin, 112. 
Molasses pudding, 247. 
Montrose pudding, 204. 
Moscow salad, 174. 
Mousse (parfait or fruit pudding), 192 
Mu£Sns, beny, 32. 

com, 32. 

farina, 57. 

Graham, ,32. 

griddled, 33. 

ground-rice, 31. 

oatmeal, 57. 

or rice and hominy griddlecakes, 36 

raised wheat, 27. 



INDEX 



S73i 



Muffins, rice ancl cormnea], 66. 

whole-wheat, 36. 

Twin-Mountain, 31. 
Mullagatawny soup, 71. 
Mush and bacon, fried, 57. 

fried, 57. 
Mushrooms and eggs, 61. 

with mutton cutlets, 117. 
Mutton broth, 67. 72. 

chops a la Cleveland, 117. 
stuffed, 117. 

cutlets, with mushrooms, 117. 

haricot, 116. 

imitation barbecue, 115. 

stew, 115. 

vegetable soup, 69. 

Neapolitan cake, 230. 
Nesselrode pudding, 203. 
Neufchatel salad, 172. 
New England boiled dinner, 242. 

raspberry cake, 227. 
No-name salad, 170. 
Nun's gem, 217. 
Nursery cake, 224. 
Nut, apple and celery salad, 169. 

balls, 125. 

bread, 22. 

Oat cakes, 35. 
Oats, Quaker, 63. 

rolled, SO. 
Oatmeal, 53. 

bread, 21. 

muffins, 57. 

porridge, 50. 
Oil dressing, boiled, 168. 

mayonnaise, 167. 
Oklahoma rocks, 215. 
Okra, fried, 246. 

gumbo, 73. 

soup, 77. 

stewed, 146. 
Old Colonial mint cup, 16. 

fashioned raised cake, 232. 
Olla Podrida salad, 171. 
Olive and cheese sandwiches, 47. 
Omelet, chicken, 137. 

kidney, 123. 

veal, 126. 



Omelets, asparagus, liSOl 

beef, 104. 

Bismarck, 65. 

bread, 64. 

cheese, 65. 

codfish and potato, 93. 

corn, 158. 

ham, 65. 

oyster, 64. 

parsley, 65. 

plain, 64. 

potato, 160. 

Rudolph, 64. 
One, two, three, four cookies, 216. 
Onion chowder, 79. 

curried, 155. 

sandwiches, 48. 

souffle, 158. 
Onions, boiled, with white sauce, 
151. 

scalloped, 147. 

stewed, 151. 
Orange cake, 227. 
five-egg, 244. 

compote, 204. 

filling, 234. 

frosting, 236. 

granite, 196. 

ice, 192. 

marmalade pudding, 178. 

mousse, 202. 

pie, 212. 

pudding, 176. 

sauce, 188, 189. 

sherbet, 194. 

tapioca fluff, 183. 
Ox-cheek salad, 173. 
Oxtail fricassee, 109. 

savoiy, 109. 

soup, 75. 
Oyster bisque, 77. 

omelet, 64. 

pie, 97. 

rarebit, 96. 
Oysters a la Greorge Trimble Davidson, 
96. 

k la Newburg, 96. 

broiled, 97. 

creamed, 97. 

eucoquille, 96. 



274 



INDEX 



Oysters, fried, with cold slaw, 96. 
roasted in shell, 97. 
sauted, 96. 
scalloped, 97. 
with tomato bouillon, 73. 

Pancakes, French, 33. 

Papas rellenas, 113. 

Farfait, or fruit-pudding mousse, 192. 

Parsnips, Yankee fried, 147. 

Parton pies, 99. 

Pates, 208. 

Pea and tomato salad, 171. 

soup, 156. 
Peas, boiled with butter, 145. 

in the pod, 146. 

with lettuce, 145. 

with pork, 145. 
Peach cream, 200. 

crumb pudding, 181. 

filling, 235. 

sherbet, 195. 
Peaches, pickled, 250. 
Peanut sandwiches, 47. 
Pepper and chicken salad, 173. 

and potato salad, 170. ■ 

rings, 147. - 1 

Peppers with macaroni, 147. \ 
Perch, Hampton Courts 87. 
Philadelphia ice cream, 192. ' 
Pickled peaches, 250. 
Pie, Mrs. Dawson's, chicken, 247. 
Pig, roast, 128. 
Pig's feet, broiled, 129. 
Pigs in blankets, 96. 
Pimento sandwiches, 48. 
Pinafore cake, 247. 
Pineapple cream, 198.J*' 

mousse, 202. 

pudding, 180. 

punch, 10. 

sherbet, 194. 

tomato salad, 175. 

water ice, 192. 
Pineapples, lemonade. It. 
Pistachio cream, 198. 

sauce, 190. 
Plain hot sauce, 190. 

icings, 235. 

plum pudding, 182. 



Plain wedding cake, 224. 
Plombiere, 204. 
Poached eggs, with greens, 62. 
Pomegranate sherbet, 195. 

water ice, 193. 
Pomona sherbet, 195. 
Poor man's pudding, 186. 
Pop, ginger, 11. 
Fork, boiled, with kale, 149. 

bobble gash, 127. 

Boston pork and beans, 127. 

cake, 228. 

chops, sauce Robert, 127. 

cooked with cabbage, 148. 

cutlets, 132. 

ham, boiled, 241. 
broiled, and eggs, 129. 
steak, 129. 
to boil, 128. 
' pig, roast, 128. 

pig's feet, broiled, 129. 

roast, 127. 

salt, fried, cream gravy, 130. 

sauerkraut, with spareribs, 128. 

sausage and apple, 129. 
homemade, 128. 
rolls, 129. 

tenderloins, with sweet potatoes, 127 

toad in the hole, 129. 

with peas, 145. 
Potato and cabbage pur^e, 148. 

and cauliflower salad, 174. 

and codfish omelet, 92. 

and ham pie, 132. 

and pepper salad, 170. 

and tomato salad, 165. 

browned, 164. 

cake, Mrs. Cosgrove's,' 250. 

cold, croquettes, 161. 

cream soup, 69. 

croquettes, 164. 

fried, balls, 161. 

omelet, 160. 

puffs, 164. 

salad, 173. 
balls, 173. 

scones, 165. 

whipped, 164. 
Potatoes a la HoUandaise:, 180. 

baked, 160. 



INDEX 



275 



Potatoes, baked, on half shell, 160. 
boiled, 160. 
Brabanconne, 161. 
Chambrey, 161. 
Chartreuse, 164. 
creamed, 164. 
curried, 165. 
Duchesse, 164. 
French-fried, 161. 
glazed sweet, 165. 
hashed brown, 165. 

with green peppers, 147. 
Hongroise, 161. 
Lyonnaise, 164. 
mashed, 160. 
roasted brown, 160. 
Saratoga chips, 161. 
scalloped, 160. 
stewed, 164. 
sweet, 165. 

with hard-boiled eggs, 164. 
with Iamb stu£Sng, 119. 
Poultry, bread dressing, 136. 
chicken, baked with milk, 134. 
braised, 133. 
broiled, 134. 

creamed, and sweetbreads, 135. 
fried, 135. 
grilled, 134. 
in casserole, 134. 
panned, 134. 
pie, 135. 
roasted, 136. 
with almond sauce, 135. 
trtth dumplings, 134. 
with peanuts, 135. 
duck, roasted, 136. 
pie, Mrs. Dawson's chicken, 247. 
turkey, roasted, 135. 
Pound cake, 226. 

old-fashioned, 246. 
Proven9al salad, 174. 
Prune and bread pudding, 177. 

pie, 212. 
Prunes, stewed, 242. 
Pudding, cream rice, 67. 
Puddings, almond cream, 248. 
amber cream, S47. 
angel food, 250. 
custard cup, 243. 



Paddings, English, 248. 

Frankfort, 248. 

hasty, 49. 

iced rice, 203. 

molasses, 247. 

Saratoga, 244. 

sponge, 244. 

steamed, 242. 

strawberry ambrosia, 248. 
Puff paste, 207. 

apple pie, 209. 

with pineapple flavor, 211. 

banana pie, 212. 

cheese straws, 208. 

cherry pie, 209. 

chocolate-cream pie, 213. 
pie, 213. 

cocoanut pie, 212. 

cream horns, 208. 

crumb lemon pie, 210. 

custard pie, 210. 

date pie, 211. 

dried-apple pie, 212. 
fig pie, 211. 
flaky pie crust, 208. 
Grerman cherry pie, 211. 
gooseberry pie, 211. 
green-currant pie, 211. 
lemon-aud-raisin pie, 211. 

pie, 210. 
mince-meat, 213. 
orange pie, 212. 
IMltes, 208. 
prune pie, 212. 
pumpkin pie, 209. 
raspberry pie, 209. 
rhubarb pie, 213. 
strawberry pie, 212. 
sweet-potato pie, 210. 
torto frutas, 212. 
vanilla-cream pie, 210. 
vol au vent, 208. 
Pumpkin pie, 209. 
Punch, 192. 
delicious fruit, 245. 
fruit, 10. 
ginger, 15. 
lime, 10. 
piazza, 10. 
pineapple, 10. 



276 



INDEX 



Punch, raspberry and currant, 11. 

red-currant, 14. 

tea, 11. 

tutti frutti, 14. 
Puree, cabbage and potato, 148. 

de lentilles, 71. 

of apricots, 204. 

of celeriac, 76. 

Quahog cocktail, 95. 
Queen pudding, 201. 
Quick cake, 228. 
Quince water ice, 193. 

Rabbit soup, 72. 
Raised wheat muffins, 37. 
Rare-beef sandwiches, 46. 
Rarebit, oyster, 96. 
Raspberry and currant punch, 11. 
sherbet, 194. 

buns, 250. 

cream, 200. 

jam cream, 199. 

jeUy, 183. 

pie, 209. 

sauce, 178. 
and bread pudding, 178. 

shrub, 13. 

vinegar, 11. 

water ice, 192. 
Ravioli macaroni, 52. 
Red-apple salad, 173. 

cabbage, shredded, 153. 
stewed, 153. 

currant punch, 14. 

raspberry filling, 235. 

snapper, baked, 85. 

vegetable salad, 174, 
Rhubarb pie, 213. 
Ribbon cake, 224. 
Rice a la Creole,' 50. 

and cornmeal muffins, 56. 

and lamb croquettes, 119. 

boiled, 50. 

bread, 23. 

croquettes, 57. 

gems, 56. 

griddlecakes, 56. 

Milanese fashion, 51. 

or hominy griddlecakes or muffins, : 



Rice pudding, iced, 203. 

steamed, 50. 

timbales, 50. 

waffles, 56. 

with cheese, 55. 

with cheese crust, 56. 

with date sauce, 56. 

with eggs, 61. 
Rissoles of lobster, 98. 
Roast-beef gravy, 102. 
pillau, 112. 

pot, 242. 
Robert sauce, 157. 
Rolls, luncheon, 25. 

Parker House, 24. 

Swedish, 26. 

Swiss, 24. 
Rothe Crutze, 184. 
Roulettes, bread, 43. 

Salad, bluefish, 91. 
clam, 91. 

dressing, cooked, 168. 
halibut, 91. 
in boats, 172. 
sweet-potato, 165. 
Salads, 166. 

oil mayonnaise, 167. 
Salsify, 151. 
Sally Lunn, 30. 

Yorkshire, 24. 
Salmon, broiled salt, halibut, 92. 
croquettes, 91. 
curried, 90. 
loaf, 90. 
salad, 170. 

molds, 91. 
salt, broiled, 92. 
sandwiches, 47. 
trout, baked, with cream, 86. 
Salt codfish, 92. 
chowder, 93. 
creamed, 92. 
fish, how to cook, 92. 
herring, baked, 94. 
mackerel, baked, 93. 
boiled, 92. 
broiled, 92. 
stuffed, 92. 
pork, fried, cream gravy, 130. 



INDEX 



27: 



Salt rising bread, 23. 
Sandwiches, 44. 

anchovy-and-cheese, 4/7. 

baked-beans, 166, 

Boston, 47. 

cheese, 47. 

cheese-and-olive, 47. 

chicken-and-celety, 46. 

club, 46. 

crab, 46. 

cucumber, 48. 

hot ham, 46. 

in cream sauce, 42. 

lamb, 46. 

lobster, 46. 

mock-crab, 47. 

Oak HiU, 46. 

onion, 48. 

peanut, 47. 

pimento, 48. 

rare bee^ 46, 

salmon, 47. 

sweetbread, 46. 

tomato, 48. 

tongue, 46. 

walnut, 47. 
and cheese, 47. 

water-cress, 47. 
Saratoga chips, 161. 
Sauce, allemande, 139. 

anchovy, 139. 

bechamel, 140. 

brown, 140. 

cardinal, 139. 

celery, 139. 

chocolate, 188. 

cold horse-radish, 141. 

cream, cucumber, 140. 

drawn-butter egg, 141. 

for snow pudding, 183. 

Hollandaise, 140. 

horse-radish, 141. 

mint, 141. 

piquante, 139. 

shrimp, 141. 

soubise, 139. 

Spaoish, 139. 

Tartare, 140. 

thin white, 141. 

tomato, 141. 



Sauce, white mushroom, 140. 
Sauerkraut, with spareribs, 128. 
Sausage and apple, 129. 
homemade, 128. 
rolls, 129. 
Savory stew of lamb, 119. 
Scalloped apples, 178. 
Scallops, fried, 99. 
on the shell, 99. 
scalloped, 99. 
Scones, Fitcaithley, 34. 
Shad, baked, 87. 
roe and cucumber salad, 178. 
baked, 88. 
Shaddock salad, 175. 
Sheep's-head broth, 72. 
Shell fish, cangrejueloe, 99. 
clams a la Newburg, 95. 
escalloped, 96. 
fried, 95. 

in Vienna rolls, 95. 
roast, 95. 
crabs a la Creole, 99. 

soft-shell, 99. 
Mtters, clam, 95. 
Langosta a la Catalana, 98. 
lobster a la Newburg, 98. 
breaded, 98. 
creamed, 98. 
curry of, 97. 
French style, 98. 
oyster pie, 97. 
rarebit, 96. 
rissoles of, 98. 
oysters a la George Trimble David 
son, 96. 
a la Newburg, 96. 
broiled, 97. 
creamed, 97. 
encoquille, 96. 
fried, with cold slaw, 96. 
roasted in shell, 97. 
sauted, 96. 
scalloped, 97. 
partan pies, 99. 
pigs in blankets, 96. 
quahog cocktail, 95. 
salad, bluefish, 91. 

clam, 91. 
sandwiches, crab, 46. 



278 



INDEX 



Shell fish, scallops, fried, 99. 
on the shell, 99. 
scalloped, 99. 
Shelled beans, stewed, 146. 
Sherbet, 192. 
Shortcake, 29. 

Sidney Smith's salad dressing, 169. 
Slappers, 32. 
Small breads, apple cake, S5. 

bread, steamed corn, 249. 

broiche, 27. 

buns, English batter, 26. 
hot-cross, 24. 

cakes, buckwheat, 2d. 
entire-buckwheat, 25. 
Liancashire tea, 26. 
raised-batter, 25. 

currant squares, 26. 

doughnuts, raised, 28. 

gems, breakfast, 246. 

made from yeast, 23. 

raised wheat muffins, 27. 

rolls, luncheon, 26. 
Parker House, 24. 
Swedish, 26. 
Swiss, 24. 

Sally Lunn, Yorkshire, 34. 

toast, spider-browned, 42. 

waffles, raised wheat, 27. 
Smelts, baked, 86. 

brochet, 87. 
Snowballs, 186. 
Snow pudding, 182. 
Soft custard, 189. 

shell crabs, 99. 
Sorrel soup, 78. 
Soups, 66. 

a la Flamande, 71. 

& la Menestra, 70. 

a la Reine, 69. 

asparagus cream, 76. 

baked-bean, 157. 

bean, 67. 

beef gumbo, 73. 

bfeque, 69. 

bisque, lobster, 77. 
oyster, 77. 

black-bean, 78. 

bouillabaise, 75. 

bouillon, tomato, with oysters, 73. 



Soups, broth, barley, 71, 
chicken, 71. 
chowder, chicken, 7S. 

clam, 79. 

corn, 77. 

fish, 70. 

lobster, 77. 

onion, 79. 
clam, 78. 
cock-a-leekie, 72. 
corn, 156. 
cream of celery, 73. 

of com, 74, 157. 

of onion, 74. 
Creole, 67. 
dried-bean, 75. 
Du Barry, 70. 
fish bisque, 89. 
friar's, chicken, 72. 
green-pea, 76, 159. 
gumbo, okra, 73. 
herb, 79. 
leek, 74. 
maigre, 76. 
mock-turtle, 67. 
muUagatawny, 71. 
mutton broth, 67, 72. 
Normandie, 75. 
old-fashioned bean, 79. 
oxtail, 75. 

h, la Tabasco, 70. 
pea, 156. 
potato-cream, 69. 
puree of celeriac, 76. 

de lentilles, 71. 
rabbit, 72. 

sheep's-head broth, 72. 
split-pea, 76. 
sportsman's broth, 79. 
sorrel, 78. 
stock, brown, 68. 
stock, white, 70. 
tomato, 68. 
veal, 68. 

vegetable mutton, 69. 
winter okra, 77. 
Sour-cream cake, Mrs. Moberly's, 218 

cookies, 214. 

dressing, 168. 
milk doughnuts, 39. 



INDEX 



Sour milk, Graham bread, 37. 
Spaghetti a la Italien, 51. 

Fiquante, 53. 

with cheese, 52. 

with chicken, 52. 
Spanish cake, 236. 

chocolate cream, 185. 
Spareribs, with sauerkraut, 128. 
Spice cake, 218, 224. 
Spider corn cake, 36. 
Spinach, boiled, 149. 

cooked without water, 149. 

in molds, 156. 

rechauffe, 158. 

salad on tongue, 172. 

with cream, 149. 

with egg, 149. 
Split-pea soup, 76. 
Sponge cake a la Chantilly, 180. 
Spoon biscuit, 39. 
Springerlein, 216. 
Squash, baked Hubbard, 146. 
Stale bread, 40. 

Stale bread and cake puddings, 176. 
Steak a la Bordelaise, 103 

a la Victor Hugo, 104. 

Hamburg, 103. 

pudding, 105. 

savory, 105. 

to broil a, 102. 
Stew, army, 116. 

brown, 121. 

lamb heart, 118. 

mutton, 115. 
Stock, brown, 68. 

white soup, 70. 
String-bean and water-cress salad, 169. 
Strawberry ambrosia, 248. 

granite, 196. 

ice cream, 198. 

pie, 212. 

sauce, 188. 

sherbet, 195. 

water ice, 192. 
Stufied mousse, 203. 
Sturgeon, to roast, 87. 
Suculento, 162. 
Suet cherry roly-poly, 181. 
Sugar cookies, 214. 
Summer salad, 170, 175. 



Summer squ 
Sunday-morniiij^ 
Sunshine cake, 21; 
Surprise cake, 224. ^x 
Sweetbread croquettes, ~i~ 
fritters, 124. 

salad, 172. ' ^^^^.. 

sandwiches, 46. ■^•- 

Sweetbreads a la Newburg, 124. 
and macaroni sauce, 107. 
fried, 123. 

with creamed chicken, 135. 
Sweet potato, 162. 
au gratin, 165. 
bread, 23. 
croquettes, 162. 
in cream, 162. 
pie, 210. 
potatoes, baked, 162. 
boiled, 162. 
broiled, 162. 
glazed, 162. 
with pork tenderloins, 127. 

Tapioca and bananas, 182. 

cream cocoanut, 183. 

Indian pudding, 184. 
Tea, 10. 

punch, 11. 

Russian, 13. 
Teather cake, 223. 
" Timbales. fish, 86. 
Toad in the hole, 129. ' 
Toasted sandwiches, 41. 
Toast, milk, 42. 

spider browned, 42. 

tomato, 43. 
Tomato and cucumber salad in cucum 
ber, 169. 

and pea salad, 171. 

jelly with celery salad, 17S. 

mayonnaise, 169. 

pineapple salad, 175. 

salad, 175. 
and potatoes, 165. 

sandwiches, 48. 

soup, 68. 

surprise, 153. 

toast, 43. 

with oyster bouillon, 73. 



278 



INDEX 



Shell fish, scallops, fried, 9P 
on the shell, 99. 
scalloped, 99. ,; ' 

Shelled beans, stewe^ 

Sherbet, 192. 

Shortcake, 29, onions, 159. 

Sidney Smiit' 

Slappe; Mrs. Bailey's, 245. 

S°With succotash, 147. 

ongue, boiled, 107. 

sandwiches, 46. 
leftover, 114. 

with spinach salad, 172. 

with tomato sauce, 122. 
Torto frutas, 212. 
Training-day ginger cake, 219. 
Tripe k la Creole, 107. 

a I'Espagnole, 107. 

and onions, 108. 

curried, 107. 

Lyonnaise, 107. 

stewed, and tomato sauce, 108. 

with oysters, 108. 
Trotters and heads, to prepare, 72. 
Trout, broiled brook, 88. 
Turbot, broiled, 87. 
Turkey, roasted, 136. 

scalloped, 137. 
Turkish pilaf, 60. 
THimips, boiled, 160. 

fried, 147. 

glac^ au Sucre, 153. 

hashed, 160. 
Tutti-frutti, 202. 
filling, 235. 
punch, 14. 

Vanilla cream pie, 210. 
with extract, 198. 
ice cream, 197. 
sauce, 189, 204. 
Veal, 120 
birds, 121. 

braised, Mrs. Gore's, 251. 
brown stew, 121. 

calf s liver terrapin, with mushrooms, 
125. 
tongue, with tomato sauce, 122. 
collops, 122. 
croquettes, Windermere, 125. 



Veal cutlets, 121. 
curried, 121. 
hearts, 121. 
kidneys, deviled, 123. 

omelet, 123. 
liver, braised calPs, 123. 
calf s and bacon, 123. 
stewed calf s, 123. 
loaf, 121. 
nut balls, 126. 
omelet, 126. 
oysters, 121. 
roast breast of, 120. 
roasted with mushrooms, 120. 
ragout of, 121. 
savory, 120. 
smothered, 122. 
soup, 68. 
stew, 122. 
sweetbread croquettes, 124. 

fritters, 124. 
sweetbreads a la Newburg, 124. 

fried, 123. 
Wiener Schnitzel, 122. 
Vegetable hash, 157. 

mutton soup, 69. 
Vegetables, 142. 
Vegetarian sausages, 164. 
Vol au vent, 208. 

Waffles, 30. 

raised wheat, 27. 

rice, 56. 
Walnut and cheese sandwiches, 47. 

mocha cake, 230. 

pudding, 177. 

sandwiches, 47. 
Water-cress and string-beau salad, 169. 
sandwiches, 47. 

ice, 191. 
Whipped-cream filling, 234. 
White-bread brewis, 42. 

fish, baked, 87. 

fruit cake, 229. 

loaf cake, 249. 

Mountain icing, 235. 
Whole-wheat muffins, 36. 
Wiener Schnitzel, 122. 
Woddlawn brown bread, 36. 

Yorkshire cake, 233. 



