



1909 






enan 

California 



I 



F. H. WILSON, PRESIDENT 

E. SELIGMAN, VICE PRESIDENT 
W. J. DECHMAN, CASHIER 

CLARENCE WILSON, ASST. CASHIER 



The First National 
Bank 

Dinuba, California 



This Bank transacts a General Business 



Careful and prompt attention given to all 
business. All facilities consistent with sound 
banking cheerfully extended with the assur- 
ance of satisfactory service and agreeable 
relationship. 



Ladies' Aid 
Cook Book 



Compiled by 

Ladies of the Presbyterian 
Church, Dinuba, Col. 



1909 



INDEX 

Soups 5 

Vegetables - - . 9 

Entrees - - 15 

Fish . 21 

Meats - . 25 

Bread - .33 

Salads - - - 38 

Pickles - .42 

Preserves - - 50 

Pies - - .54 

Cookies - - 60 

Cakes - - 65 

Puddings ^ 79 

Candy . 86 

Household Hints 92 

Miscellaneous - 96 



M~H~H~H-H"I-H-H-I -1-I-M I I M -M- H-H-J-H-H-H-H-H 




r/ 



We'll Gladly 
Introduce You 

To the methods of this store and 
the excellence of its 

GROCERIES 

For we know that once you are introduc- 
ed you will hereafter be no stranger here. 
For you will at once associate this store with 
Good Goods whenever your mind travels in 
that direction. 

When you use this Boofc, use Us 

THE KARNAK 

Burum ? Burum 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Soups 



OYSTER SOUP. 

Put 1 quart of milk on stove; drain juice off 1 can of 
oysters in it. When hot add salt, pepper and butter size of 
an egg, and 4 rolled crackers. Add oysters last. When 
cooked for five minutes serve. Two dozen fresh oysters 
can be used instead of a can of oysters if preferred. 

MRS. W. SIBLEY. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Chop a large onion and cook in a pint of boiling water. 
Drain the liquor from a can of tomatoes. Press the to- 
matoes through a colander, then add them and the liquor 
to the onion, together with 1 quart of soup stock, and 
salt and pepper for seasoning. Cook fifteen minutes. Serve 
crackers or toasted bread cut in squares. 

MRS. CHAS. SIBLEY. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Take a good sized soup bone with plenty of meat on it. 
Wash and put into a soup kettle, add cold water, about one- 
third more than the quantity desired, and season with salt 
and celery root to taste. Cook slowly for two hours and 
then strain. Add a small piece of cabbage, 1 large potato, 
1 onion, a small piece of turnip, all chopped fine, 1 table- 
spoonful of rice and 1 cup of tomatoes. Put into kettle 
and cook until vegetables are tender. 

MRS. CHAS. SIBLEY. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

One-half Ib. nice tender beef or veal, boil slowly until 
tender. Slice 2 large onions, 2 potatoes, % head cabbage 
(or any vegetables you like), add to boiling broth with 
butter size of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoons of nice sweet lard, 
salt and pepper to taste; boil one hour. If you like beef 
left in soup cut in small pieces before boiling, if not, take 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



out, put in baking pan, butter, pepper, and keep in hot oven 
for five minutes, then you have meat and soup, too. 

MRS. BETTIE LANDERS. 

TOMATO SOUP 

One quart of milk, let come to boil, add % teaspoon soda, 
1 pint cooked tomatoes, 1 small onion cut in small pieces, 
browned in butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Six boiled and mashed potatoes, 1 quart of milk, % Ib. 
butter, season with pepper and salt. While mashing add 
the butter and pour in gradually the boiling milk. Stir 
well and strain through a sieve. Hoat once more. Beat 
up an egg, put in the soup tureen and pour over It the 
soup when ready to serve. E." K. 

HOME MADE NOODLES. 

Wet with the yolks of 4 eggs as much flour as will make 
a firm paste. Roll thin as possible and cut into bands an 
inch in width. Dust them with flour and place four of them 
one upon the other. Cut in finest strips. Separate and 
spread upon board to dry a few minutes before using. 
Drop slowly into any kind of soup and boil five minutes. 

CREAM CELERY r SOUP. 

Boil a small cup of rice in 3 quarts of milk until it will 
pass through a sieve. Grate white part of 2 heads celery 
(3 if small) and add this to rice milk after being strained. 
Put to it a quart of fine white stock. Let boil until celery is 
tender. Season with salt and pepper, dash of cayenne. Sub- 
stitute cream for milk if obtainable. MRS. J. SMITH. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Vegetables 



ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape the stems of asparagus lightly, then throw into 
cold water and wash; tie in bunches of equal size, put into 
boiling water and boil twenty minutes. While cooking 
toast slices of bread after removing crust. When asparagus 
is tender, lift out, lay on toast. Serve with white sauce or 
melted butter. White sauce: Mix two tablespoons sifted 
flour with % teacup warm butter. Place over fire sauce pan 
with a pint of sweet milk, salt spoon of salt, dash of pepper. 
When milk boils add flour and butter. Stir briskly until 
it thickens like cream. MRS. WM. MACKERSIE. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Pare sweet potatoes, cut in halves lengthwise, rub over 
with salt and lay in pan, sprinkle with sugar and dot thickly 
with bits of butter. Bake until tender. 

MRS. V. E. SLOANE, Orosi. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Take 2 cups cold mashed potatoes and stir into it 1 table- 
spoon melted butter, beating to a cream before adding any- 
thing else, then add 2 eggs beaten very light, 1 cup cream, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Beat all well and pour in 
dish. Bake in quick oven until a nice brown. If properly 
mixed will be light and puffy. 

MRS. V. E. SLOANE, Orosi. 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES. 

Take nice clear potatoes, peel them and boil until tender, 
then mash. Season with salt, pepper and butter, also 
cream, but not as much as for Irish potatoes. 

MRS. V. E. SLOANE, Orosi. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

For 1 quart potatoes cut very small allow a large cup- 
ful of milk. Use cream if you have it. Make a cream 



10 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

dressing of the milk, 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 table- 
spoonful of butter. Cook on the stove until it thickens 
(dressing.) Put a layer of potatoes in a baking dish, season 
with salt and pepper and pour on a little of the cream 
dressing. Continue until all is used. Cover the top with 
rolled cracker crumbs and bits of butter. Bake twenty 
minutes. MRS. ELAM. 

PARSNIP CHIPS. 

Scrape young, tender parsnips, slice very thin; let stand 
in cold salt water for one-half hour, dry and fry in hot fat 
until crisp. 

EGG PLANT. 

Wash and peel, cut into slices one-half inch thick; lay 
in salted water twenty minutes. Dry each slice on cloth. 
Then dip in egg and brown bread crumbs and fry over a 
quick fire for fifteen minutes, or until well done and nicely 
browned. MRS. ROY DEMAREE. 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil cauliflower in salted water until tender; drain, 
break in small pieces, put layer of bread crumbs in dish, 
then layer of cauliflower with bits of butter scattered over, 
enough milk to cover. To each pint of milk add 1 tea- 
spoon corn starch. Bake until brown. 

RICE FOOD (OR PELAFE). 

Take 2 tablespoonfuls butter, melt it in a pan, and take 
2 cups rice and wash it in two waters, fry it in the butter 
till it gets a little brown; keep up stirring (be careful not 
to burn), and take two good sized tomatoes, or 1 table- 
spoonful catsup and 1 teaspoonful salt. Mix them well, 
add 4 cups broth (or hot water could be used, too); let it 
cook about ten minutes, till it gets dry. If the rice is not 
cooked enough, add more broth, or water. 

MRS. L. G. YALE. 

FRIED CORN. 

Husk and silk several ears of corn, cut about half the 
kernel from the cob and scrape off the rest. Heat a large 
lump of butter in the frying pan, put in corn, season, cover 
tightly, cook slowly and stir often. Do not brown. 

MRS. FRANK STARK. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



SPANISH CORN. 

Two tablespoons olive oil, 2 chili copini, 1 clove garlic. 
When smoking hot add 1 can corn. Cook on back of stove 
for twenty minutes. MRS. FRANK STARK. 

SPANISH BEANS. 

Pink beans 2 cups, pickle pork 1 lb., 1 large onion, 1 can 
tomatoes, 3 red peppers, garlic 3 parts. 

MRS. HATTIE ROSS. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Take 1 cup each of white beans and brown, put on in 
cold water with pinch of soda and boil until tender. Then 
add 1 pint tomatoes, couple of slices of bacon, 1 large 
onion and water if necessary. Pepper, salt and sugar to 
taste. Put in oven and bake for two hours. 

MRS. WM. PUTNAM. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Take 2 cups of beans, wash, then pour boiling water over 
them and partly cook. Then drain off water, add more boll- 
ing water and salt to taste. When cooked tender drain off 
the water and add M> cup of cream and butter the size of a 
walnut. MRS. AGNES FITZSIMMONS, Orosi. 

BEAN CROQUETTES. 

One cup navy beans, 1 tablespoonful olive oil, 1 teaspoon 
salt, bread crumbs, 1 egg beaten. Cover beans with water, 
soak over night, drain and cook until tender. Drain, press 
through colander, add salt and olive oil, mix thoroughly 
and roll into croquettes. Dip into beaten eggs. Roll in 
bread crumbs and bake in moderate oven. Serve with 
tomato sauce. MRS. E. C. SCRUGGS. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Chop cabbage, put into sauce pan, cover about half with 
water and boil until tender. When about done remove 
cover and let water boil out pretty well. Stir in one cup of 
cream, salt and pepper to taste. When it boils add 1 
tablespoon of flour stirred into a little milk. Let boil 
slowly five minutes or until thickened. 

MRS. R. DEMAREE, Orosi. 



12 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



ESCALOPPED SQUASH. 

Pare and cut the squash into small pieces and boil until 
tender, but not soft enough to mash. Butter a baking dish 
and cover the bottom with a layer of squash over which 
sprinkle a little salt, sugar and a few bits of butter. Keep 
on until the dish is full. Sprinkle with grated nutmeg, 
pour in % of a cup of milk and bake in a moderate oven. 

LAURA M. JONES. 

FRIED STRING BEANS. 

String and wash 2 quarts beans, put into deep frying pan 
2 spoons butter or lard, 1 teaspoon salt and cover closely 
and cook one hour, stirring frequently to prevent burning. 
When almost done put a cup of water on them and let cook 
Tor fifteen minutes. 

MACARONI TOMATOES SPANISH. 

One pint tomatoes, 3 small onions, 1 quart cooked maca- 
roni. Fry onions to a light yellow. CoQk tomatoes and 
macaroni separately. Add all together and stew slowly 
for three-fourths of an hour. Add sugar, salt and pepper 
to taste. MRS. JAMES COOK. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Take the tomatoes from one can, rejecting most of the 
juice. Put them in small pan, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Over top add butter and 1 tablespoon sugar. Cover 
with bread crumbs browned in butter. Bake half hour. 

OAK HILL POTATOES. 

Four large cold potatoes, 6 hard boiled eggs sliced, 
1 clove garlic or onion, 2 cups cream dressing. Same as 
scalloped potatoes. MRS. FRANK STARK. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Scrape the substance of twelve ears of green uncooked 
corn (better scraped than grated), add yolk and whites 
beaten separately of 4 eggs, a teaspoon of sugar, same of 
flour mixed in a tablespoon of butter, a little salt and pepper, 
1 pint of milk. Bake about one-half or three-quarters of 
an hour. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 13 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and scrape, split lengthwise, steam or boil until 
tender. Drain and place in baking dish with lumps of butter 
over them, pepper and salt, then sprinkle thickly with 
sugar and bake until browned nicely. 



14 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Entrees 



OYSTER OMELET. 

Clean 1 cup of oysters and cook until plump; drain and 
reserve liquor. Melt 2 tablespoons butter, add 2 table- 
spoons flour, % teaspoon salt, and a few grains pepper, 
then pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, the oyster 
liquor and enough milk to make one cup of liquid. Separ- 
ate the yolks from the whites of 3 eggs. Beat the yolk 
until thick and lemon-colored; add % teaspoon salt, few 
grains pepper, and 3 tablespoons hot water. Beat the 
whites of 3 eggs until stiff and dry, cutting and folding 
them into first mixture until they have taken up mixture. 
Heat omelet pan, and butter sides and bottom of pan with 
1 tablespoon butter. Turn in mixture, spread evenly, place 
on range where it will cook slowly, occasionally turning 
the pan that omelet may brown evenly. When well "puffed" 
and delicately browned underneath, place pan on center 
grate of oven to finish cooking the top. Spread oysters on 
one-half of omelet, fold, turn on a hot platter, pour around 
sauce and garnish with parsley. 

M ACAKONI AND CHEESE. 

Break a quarter Ib. of macaroni into a kettle of boiling 
slightly salted water, boil till tender; drain and blanch in 
cold water. Make a gravy with 1 heaping tablespoonful of 
flour moistened with cold water or milk stirred into a cup 
of boiling milk. Add a lump of butter the size of a walnut 
and season with salt and pepper to taste. Put in a baking 
dish alternate layers of macaroni, grated cheese and the 
sravy till all has been used. Then sift over with bread 
crumbs and brown in oven. Serve in baking dish. If 
more is required double the recipe. 

MRS. H. H. BURUM. 



16 



FRITTER BATTER. 

One cupful flour sifted twice with a rounded teaspoonfut 
of baking powder and a half teaspoonful of salt, 1 table- 
spoonful of butter or olive oil, 1 cupful milk, 1 teaspoonful 
sugar, 2 eggs. Beat the yolks and sugar together, add 
butter or oil; beat hard for one minute, put in the milk, 
then the flour, alternating with the stiffened whites. Do not 
mix until you are ready to cook the fritters. If you are 
making plain fritters drop large spoonfuls of the batter 
into the hot fat, a few at a time, and when they are a 
golden brown take out with a skimmer and dry in a hot 
colander. MRS. ELAM. 

HAM OMELET. 

Take 2 medium sized slices of ham cut into small pieces 
and fry brown. Beat 4 eggs and 4 tablespoonfuls of cream 
or milk until very light; add to the ham. Slip a knife under 
the omelet in the bottom of the pan to keep from scorching, 
season, fold together and turn on to a hot dish. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Hard boil half a dozen eggs; when cold cut in two and 
remove the yolks. Mince the yolks fine and add chopped 
olives, cold minced veal or chicken, salad dressing and salt 
and pepper. Fill the cavity in the egg with the mixture. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup grated cheese, 1 % cups flour, 1 % tablespoons 
butter; rub butter into the flour, then add % teaspoon salt 
and the cheese. Mix with water as for pie crust. Roll 
thin, cut into straws and bake in hot oven. They are nice 
served with salad. If made the day before using, toast in 
the oven a few minutes. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Have your gem pans hot and well buttered. Break each 
egg into a separate pan and set in a hot oven for four or 
five minutes. Place on buttered toast. Heat 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in a pan and stir into it 1 large tablespoonful 
of flour. When smooth pour in very slowly 1 cup of milk, 
season, let boil up and pour over the eggs and toast. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



EGGS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Make a sauce. Put into a pan 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
and melt. Stir into this 1 % tablespoonfuls of flour, stir all 
time, then pour in about 1 pint of milk; stir until it 
thickens, salt and pepper to taste. Boil eggs hard, shell 
and cut into halves, arrange on platter and pour sauce over. 
Nice for supper. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE. 

Put into a baking dish a layer of bread or cracker 
crumbs, bits of butter, pepper and salt, then a layer of 
grated cheese. Then alternate crumbs and cheese until the 
dish is full. Heap crumbs on top, pour over a cup of 
cream. Bake a light brown. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Put the sour milk on the back of the stove until the 
curd has separated from the whey. Pour in a cheese cloth 
and let drain until quite dry. Put in a bowl with pepper, 
salt, a little butter and cream and stir to a smooth paste. 

CHICKEN SANDWICH. 

One cup chopped chicken, 1 cup chopped walnuts; mix 
with mayonnaise dressing, spread on lettuce leaf and put 
between thinly sliced buttered bread. 

One can veal loaf, 2 or 3 hard boiled eggs chopped fine. 
Put in mixing bowl and mash together. Add 1 cup 
mayonnaise dressing, spread on lettuce leaf and put between 
thinly sliced buttered bread. 

One cup cold boiled tongue and 1 dozen olives chopped 
fine and mix together with mayonnaise dressing. Spread on 
lettuce leaf and put between thinly sliced buttered bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICH. 

Take 2 hard boiled eggs. Separate the yolks from the 
whites. Mash yolks smooth. Chop the whites very fine. 
Add butter size of a small egg or 2 tablespoons of thick 
sweet cream, 3 heaping tablespoons grated cheese and beat 
well. Add salt to taste and mustard if desired. Put on 
lettuce leaf between thinly sliced buttered bread. 

MRS. SUSIE SIBLEY. 



18 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

HAM AND EGG SANDWICHES. 

Take bits of ham, chop fine 1 large cupful. Put in a sauce 
pan butter size of an egg. When hot add meat seasoned 
with pepper and mustard. When it is thoroughly heated 
through, not too hot, beat 3 eggs and stir in. When cool 
spread between sliced bread buttered. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES. 

First shell and grind peanuts moderately fine. Then cut 
your bread in slices about a quarter of an inch thick and 
dip one side of each slice in melted butter, sprinkling 
generously while the butter is still soft with the peanuts. 
The nuts may be salted if wished, and the sandwiches 
served with or without crust and cut into any desired 
shape. MRS. S. ERNEST BURUM. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Mix equal parts of grated Swiss cheese, and chopped 
walnut meats. Season with salt and cayenne pepper. 
Spread between thin slices of bread slightly buttered. 

MRS. H. -T. SEIFRIED. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Chop the whites and mash the yolk of 4 hard boiled 
eggs. To these add about 1 V6 cups grated cheese, moisten 
with salad dressing and a little lemon juice, spread on 
bread. MRS. W. C. HOUSER. 

SALMON SANDWICHES. 

Mortar the yolks of 4 hard boiled eggs, add % the con- 
tents of a can of best salmon, drained. Now add 2 table- 
spoons of home made tomato catsup. Spread mixture on 
bread. MRS. H. THOMPSON. 

SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Equal parts of cold boiled tongue and breast of chicken, 
chopped very fine, and pounded to a paste; season with 
salt, celery salt, cayenne and moisten with mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing. Put on baking powder biscuit or rolls. 

MRS. C. W. SEIFRIED. 

GRAHAM SANDWICHES. 

Chop or run through food chopper any kind of cold 
cooked meat. Season with salt, pepper, a little cayenne pep- 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 19 

per and mixed mustard, a trifle of vinegar or mayonnaise 
dressing. Mix to a smooth paste and serve between thin 
slices of buttered graham bread. MRS. W. SIBLEY. 

CELERY SANDWICHES. 

Equal parts finely minced celery and cheese. Moisten 
with mayonnaise dressing or whipped cream. Spread on 
buttered slice of bread. MRS. W. SIBLEY. 



20 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



21 



Fish 



"I whipped away the weeds and foam, 
I fetched my sea-born treasures home." 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE FOB FISH. 

One teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon 
mustard, % teacup vinegar, 1 tablespoon oil or vinegar. 
Mix all slowly together. (Cold). 

TABTARE SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Boil 1 teaspoon finely chopped onion in % cup vinegar 
two or three minutes, add % tablespoon butter, yolks of 
4 eggs beaten and added gradually. When it thickens take 
from stove and add 1 teaspoon salt, pinch cayenne and % 
tablespoon chopped cucumber pickle. 

HOT CANNED SALMON. 

Set can of salmon in dish of boiling water. When hot 
pour off oil and place in hot dish, pouring over it equal 
parts butter and vinegar boiled together. Add fresh cut 
parsley to dish. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE (FISH). 

One-half cup butter, dessertspoonful flour rubbed well 
together. Put into a saucepan with 1 cup water. Cover and 
set in a vessel of boiling water. Season with suet and 
pepper. Do not let boil. When thoroughly mixed take off. 

EVA BURUM. 

SCALLOPED FISH. 

Pick any cold flsh into small bits removing all the bones. 
Take 1 pint of milk, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a 
piece of parsley minced fine, a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
mustard. Stir into 2 tablespoonfuls flour. Grease a baking 
dish with butter, put first a layer of the minced fish, then 
a layer of the dressing, until the dish is full. Spread a 



22 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

layer of cracker crumbs on top and bake until nicely 
browned. 

ITALIAN PISH CHOWDER. 

Put 2 tablespoons olive oil into frying pan, add 1 small 
onion, 1 cup of tomatoes, % glass of vinegar; add about 
2 Ibs. rock cod and let boil twenty-five minutes, being care- 
ful not to burn. Salt and pepper to taste. 

MRS. HATTIE ROSS. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

Any cold fish boiled, baked or fried, from which all fat, 
bones and skin have been removed, chopped fine; % as 
much mashed potatoes rubbed to a cream with a little 
butter. Mix thoroughly, make into balls, dip in beaten egg, 
roll in cracker crumbs and fry brown. 

MRS. C. C. THREEKELD. 

BAKED SALMON. 

Place in baking pan and sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
bits of butter and flour; pour over it sweet milk until nearly 
covered and bake three-quarters of an hour. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

One cup salt fish, 1 teaspoonful butter, % saltspoon 
pepper, 1 pint potato, 1 egg well beaten. Wash the fish, 
pick in half inch pieces and free from bones; pare the po- 
tatoes and cut in quarters; put potatoes and fish in stew 
pan and cover with boiling water. Boil twenty minutes 
or until potatoes are soft. Drain off all the water, mash 
and beat fish and potato very light; add butter and pepper 
and when slightly cool add egg and more salt if necessary. 
Shape and fry one minute in smoking hot lard. Fry a few 
at a time; more will cool the lard. Lard should be hot 
enough to brown a piece of bread while you count forty. 
Drain on a piece of brown paper. MRS. ELAM. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain and dry on towel, season with salt and pepper. 
Roll oysters in bread crumbs, then in beaten egg, again in 
crumbs. Let^ stand an hour, then place a layer in the frying 
basket and plunge in boiling fat. Cook 1% minutes. 
Drain on soft brown paper. 

MRS. LEROY G. SMITH. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 23 

BAKED SALMON (CANNED). 

One can salmon chopped, y 2 cup milk, y 2 cup fine 
soft bread crumbs, 2 eggs beaten, 1 tablespoon melted but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Sauce: Three tablespoons melted 
butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 cup milk, salt and pepper. Cut 
two or three hard boiled eggs in slices. Add just before 
serving. 

To Scale Fish 

Fish may be scaled much easier by first dipping them into 
boiling water for a minute. 



24 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



25 



Meats 



WHAT GOES WITH WHAT. 

Following is a table of things considered the proper 
caper: 

With roast beef serve horseradish. 
With roast mutton serve currant jelly. 
With boiled mutton serve caper sauce. 
With roast pork serve apple sauce. 
With boiled chicken serve egg sauce. 
With roast lamb serve mint sauce. 
With roast turkey serve cranberries. 
With roast duck serve currant jelly. 
With mackerel serve gooseberries. 
With roast goose serve apple sauce. 

BAKED RICE HASH. 

One cup cooked beef, 1 cup cooked rice, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, 
2 tablespoons butter, salt and pepper. Chop the meat, put 
the milk on the stove and when hot add the other ingredi- 
ents except the egg. Stir for 1 minute and remove from 
fire; add the egg well beaten, turn the hash into a dish and 
bake 20 minutes till very brown. Add gravy if you have 
it. MRS. J. H. McCRACKEN. 

MEAT LOAF. 

Two Ibs. round steak, 1 Ib. lean pork, 1 onion. Grind al! 
together in a grinder. Add 2 eggs, salt, pepper, sage and 
nutmeg to taste, then add 6 slices of soaked bread, mix wen 
and form into a loaf. Sprinkle with cracker crumbs and 
bake 1 hour in quick oven. 

MRS. FRANK HAMMON. 

DIPPED STEAK. 

Take a good steak and drop it into boiling water, then 
dip it in flour; put in water again and flour the second 



26 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

time, then drop into boiling fat. Cook to a golden brown. 

MRS. V. E. SLOAN, Orosi. 

ROLLED STEAK. 

Take 1 steak, over which sprinkle salt and pepper, then 
spread thickly with bread crumbs and onion and a little 
butter. Roll tight and tie. Bake for half an hour, or till 
tender. MRS. JAMES COOK. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Four pounds of beef. Wash the meat and cut off any 
part that is not sweet and clean. Be careful to get out all 
fragments of bones. Cut the meat in small pieces and 
just cover with boiling water. Skim carefully as it boils 
and then simmer until the meat falls to pieces and the 
liquor is reduced to one-half a pint. Remove the meat; 
season the liquor highly with salt, pepper and sage and 
thyme, add it to the meat and mix with a fork until the 
meat is all broken. Put in a pan, then put a plate and 
weight so as to press it. When cold, cut in slices. 

MRS. D. M. EDWARDS. 

CURRIED STEAK (OR CHICKEN). 

Take 1 round steak and cut into small squares; roll in 
flour and brown in butter or lard. Take 1 large onion and 
fry to a golden brown in a separate pan; then add the two 
together, pouring over this enough water to make a nice 
gravy. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Ten minutes 
before serving add 1 heaping tablespoon curry powder, 
and sugar to taste. Serve with rice boiled dry. 

MRS. WM. PUTNAM. 

MINCED STEAK. 

Take 1 round steak and run through mincer, brown 
thoroughly and sprinkle over this 1 tablespoon flour and 
enough water to keep stewing. Add 1 small onion and 
salt and pepper to taste. Stew slowly for an hour and 
serve with mashed potatoes. 

MRS. ROY DEMAREE. 

SMOTHERED STEAK. 

Take 25-cent round steak, cut in two pieces; prepare a 
dressing of stale bread crumbs seasoned with salt, butter 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 27 

or suet the size of an egg, two medium sized onions, three 
or four green peppers. Put the onions and peppers through 
the meat chopper. Moisten with water as for chicken dress- 
ing. Place one piece of meat in roaster or dripping pan, 
then a layer of dressing, then another of meat; cover with 
dressing. Put one teacup of hot water in bottom of roaster, 
cover, put in oven and bake 1 hour or until done and 
nicely browned. MRS. R. DEMAREE, Orosi. 

ROAST TURKEY WITH SAGE DRESSING. 

Dress the turkey carefully and rub inside and out with 
salt and pepper. Stuff with a dressing prepared as follows: 
Take a loaf of stale bread and one-third as much corn 
bread crumbs, soften by pouring over warm (not boiling) 
liquor where the giblets have been boiled, sprinkle with 
two teaspoons powdered sage, one-fourth teaspoon black 
pepper, and salt to taste; add tablespoon of butter and 
mix well together. Giblets may be cut in bits and added 
to dressing. Sew up opening and place in roast pan, add 
half pint water and roast till tender. A turkey weigh- 
ing ten pounds requires three hours. When tender remove 
cover and baste with butter and dredge with a little 
flour this gives a frothy appearance. When done re- 
move from pan and make gravy by adding more water 
and thickening. MRS. S. D. COCHRAN. 

OYSTER DRESSING FOR TURKEY. 

Take loaf of stale bread, cut off crust, break in pieces, 
sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, drain off 
liquor from quart of oysters, bring to boil and 
skim, pour over bread warm (not boiling) add 
one-half cup melted butter. Mix all together, 
adding lastly the oysters being careful not to break. 

(SELECTED.) 

IRISH STEW. 

Take 6 medium sized potatoes and slice thin. Add to this 
1 Ib lean mutton cut into strips, 1 large onion, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Cook for 1 hour and a half. 

MRS. W. MACKERSIE, Orosi. 

MEAT CROQUETS. 

To this amount of 2 cups of meat chopped, 1 tablespoon 



28 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

butter, 2 tablespoons of flour, 1 cupful of milk or cream, 
1 egg, 1 teaspoon of onion juice, 1 teaspoon of salt, % of 
pepper, a dash of cayenne and nutmeg, mix together, roll in 
molds; stand for some time before frying. 

MRS. FRANK STANLEY. 

BEEF PIE WITH POTATO CRUST. 

Cut cold meat and onions in a pan, add salt, pepper and 
let cook until onions are tender. Then add a little thick- 
ening. When done put in a dish, cover with warm 
mashed potatoes and set in oven a few minutes. 

MRS. C. W. SEIFRIED. 

HAMBURG LOAF. 

Two pounds hamburg steak, 1 large onion chopped fine, 
1 cup cracker crumbs. Mix all together, adding salt, pep- 
per and a pinch of thyme; make into a round loaf, put into 
a baking pan, dredge top with flour, lay two slices of bacon 
on top and bake forty-five minutes. Gravy: Make same 
as brown gravy and add half a pint of strained tomato 
juice and a little Chili powder. When loaf is done put it 
on a platter and pour gravy over it, and serve. 

MRS. GEORGE D. SMITH. 

NEW YORK CUT. 

Get a steak about 2% inches thick trom the prime rib. 
It is really the New York cut. Salt and pepper either side 
and sprinkle liberally with ginger. Put in baking pan and 
lay on top of steak two slices of lemon and two of onion. 
Put two tablespoons Worcestershire and four tablespoons, 
strained tomato juice over steak and bake twenty minutes 
in hot oven, adding enough water or broth to prevent burn- 
ing. Thicken gravy and chopped or whole mushrooms may 
be added to it. Great! Try it. 

MRS. GUY COUGHRAN. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Take a steak (round steak if possible) about two inches 
thick, season with salt, pepper and sage, cut dry light 

Home-made Candies and 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 29 

bread in dices and heap on one half; turn the other half 
over on it, place in bake pan, half cover with water and 
bake in a hot oven. LAURA M. JONES. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Chop 3 Ibs. of leg veal, 6 rohed crackers, butter size 
of an egg, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, mix together, make in solid 
loaf. Take the white of eggs and some of the crackers, 
moisten with water, spread smoothly on top of loaf. Bake 
in pan, set in another pan one hour. Good cold. 

MRS. Y. F. WILLIAMS. 

VEAL STEAK WITH OYSTER SAUCE. , 

Broil a steak in the usual way, then take the liquor 
from a can of oysters; mix together five ounces of butter, 
a tablespoonful of flour, stir into the liquor; as soon as it 
boils, put in the oysters. Let it come to a good boil, then 
pour over the steak, and serve it hot. 

MRS. D. M. EDWARDS. 

VEAL CUTLETS OR STEAK. 

First remove all hard edge and gristle, slit the edges and 
dip in egg, then bread or cracker crumbs; lay in hot fat, 
brown quickly, turn, then cover and set on top of 
stove and turn again later. Cook till thoroughly done. 
Season well before turning. They may be very nice dipped 
in corn meal and treated the same way. 

MRS. SETH SMITH. 

FRIED CHICKEN AND RICE. 

Cut up a chicken and parboil with salt enough to season. 
When a little tender fry in butter. Serve with boiled rice 
on platter. Make a gravy by thickening water in which 
chicken was parboiled, season and pour over chicken and 
rice. Serve. MRS. W. SIBLEY 

VEAL OYSTERS. 

Cut veal from the leg or tenderloin, into pieces the size 
of an oyster, season with pepper, salt and a little mace; dip 
in egg, then into cracker crumbs and fry. They both look 
and taste like oysters. To be eaten with tomato sauce. 

MRS. WASGATT. 

Hot Chocolate at Brower's 



30 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

BEEP A LA BRAISE. 

Two pounds beef, boil tender then add small piece of suet 
or beef fat, two or three slices of onion, slice a carrot fine 
with celery and parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Steam 
in the juice until almost dry; when done pour the gravy 
over the meat on a platter and garnish with the carrot and 
parsley. MRS. FRANK HAMMON. 

CHICKEN IN A BLANKET. 

Dress chicken as for roasting. Parboil till tender, then 
fill with dressing made of 1 finely cut onion, 1 egg beaten, 1 
cup of bread crumbs, butter size of walnut. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Make a rich biscuit dough, roll ^arge 
enough to cover chicken and wrap it up well. Lay in deep 
pan and cover with another. Baste with the liquor boiled 
in and bake half hour; lift cover and brown. 

MRS. SETH SMITH. 

POT ROAST WITH BROWN GRAVY. 

Put table spoon of lard in kettle. When hot put in meat 
and brown on all sides. Be careful not to burn. Add one 
pint of water and keep adding just enough water to steam 
nicely until tender. Then cook down low for gravy. 

MRS. AGNES FITZSIMMONS, Orosi. 

DOVE PIE. 

Clean one dozen doves and halve them; put into about 
two quarts of water and when it boils skim off the scum; 
next add salt, pepper, one bunch of minced parsley, oae 
onion chopped fine and three whole cloves; put in half 
pound of salt pork cut in small pieces and let all boil till 
tender. Thicken with browned flour and put in butter size 
of an egg; remove from fire and let cool. Lay some of 
the birds in a pan lined with rich crust, then some sliced 
potatoes, till the pan is filled. Put the crust around the 
sides and on top and bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. A. G. McCRACKEN. 

FRICASEED CHICKEN. 

Cut up chicken as for boiling. When tender put in dish to 
keep hot with one teacup of its broth. To the remainder, 
which should be a pint, add 1 egg well beaten, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. Salt and pepper 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 31 

and boil until it thickens. Add also half tablespoon flour. 
Pour over chicken and garnish with hard boiled eggs and 
parsley. Another way is to add can of mushrooms to gravy. 

MRS. A. G. McCRACKEN. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

For a dish holding one quart oysters first put in layer 
fine, light bread crumbs, little pieces of butter, salt and 
pepper, and alternate layers oysters and crumbs until dish 
is filled. Have crumbs on top. Pour over all cup of milk. 
Bake one hour. 

MRS. A. G. McCRACKEN. 



32 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Bread 



POPOVERS. 

i teacup sweet milk, 1 teacup flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
butter, 1 teaspoon salt. Beat eggs thoroughly and bak,: in 
deep gem pans in fifteen minutes. 

SNAILS. 

One pt. yeast, Va scant cup of lard, % scant cup of 
sugar, prepare same as for bread and let rise. Knead 
and roll quite thin, spread with butter, sprinkle with 
cinnamon and raisins, roll the same as for jelly roll, slice 
and put in buttered pans to rise. MRS. W. F. DAY. 

ROLLS. 

One pint milk scalded, \'z cupful yeast, 1 cupful warm 
water, 3 cupfuls flour, 2 even tablecpoonfuls melted butter, 
1 teaspoonful salt, add flour sufficient to knead. Pour hot 
milk gradually into 3 cupfuls flour, beat smooth, then add 
yeast, warm water. Let it rise until light. Stir in melted 
butter, sugar, salt and flour enough to make a stiff dough. 
Let it rise again until light. Bake in a quick oven. Rub 
with butter when taken from oven. 

MRS. J. A. HOSKINS. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Two cupfuls graham flour, 1 cupful wheat, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, 1 tablespoonful baking powder, 1 egg beaten 
well with a pinch of salt, 1 cupful milk or ^cream. Mix 
well then add % cupful milk. MRS. ELMER SIBLEY. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One full cup graham flour, % cupful white flour, fill the 
cup up with graham flour. V 2 cupful corn meal, fill up 
with graham flour, V 2 teaspoonful soda, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 cupful sour cream (sour milk can be used 
instead, but add a small piece of butter). Steam three and 
a half hours. MRS. W. H. ELAM. 



34 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

To each loaf take 1 teacupful of sponge made from white 
flour, 1 pint warm water, y 2 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoon- 
ful molasses or sugar, add enough graham flour to make 
batter stiff enough to drop off spoon. Put into greased 
pans, let rise. When very light bake in a hot oven until 
very brown. MRS. W. SIBLEY. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Three and one-half cupfuls flour, 3 heaping teaspoonfuls. 
best baking powder, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls sugar, 1 heap- 
ing teaspoonful salt, 2 % cupfuls sweet milk. 

MRS. CHARLES. 

BISCUITS. 

One quart sifted flour, 1 tablespoonful lard, % teaspoon- 
ful salt, 1 cupful sour milk, 1 heaping teaspoonful best bak- 
ing powder. Put a little soda into the milk to sweeten it. 
Mix all together and beat well, making a soft dough. 
Sprinkle flour over bread board. Spread dough upon it 
and pat out with hands to desired thickness; cut out biscuit, 
dip in hot lard and bake. MRS. CHARLES. 

LIGHT BREAD. 

Make a sponge at night as follows: 1 Magic yeast cake 
dissolved in a cupful of luke warm water, 1 tablespoonful 
salt, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 3 potatoes cooked and mashed 
smooth, 2 pints water. Mix together and mix enough flour 
for a stiff batter. Leave until morning, then mix down 
stiff, let raise and then work again and put into pans to 
raise again. Bake one hour. 

MRS. WM. F. PATTERSON. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two cupfuls corn meal, 1 tablespoonful salt, 2 cupfuls 
sour milk or cream, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in milk, 
1 tablespoonful melted butter, 2 eggs, % cupful white 
flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder. Stir well and 
pour into a hot buttered pan. Bake one-half hour in hot 
oven. MRS. ROBERT DUNN. 

STEAM CORNBREAD. 

Two cupfuls sour milk, 2 cupfuls corn meal, 2 cupfuls 
graham flour, 2 tablespoonfuls molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda, 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 35 



1 teaspoonful salt. Steam two and one-half hours and 
brown in oven ten minutes. Fine. MRS. E. E. FIX. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS. 

One quart graham flour, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, % tea- 
spoonful salt, V 2 teaspoonful baking powder, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter, % pint rich milk. Knead, roll thin and bake 
in rather hot oven for ten minutes. 

MRS. O. C. WILLIAMS. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Use same recipe as for bread sponge, but add ^ cup but- 
ter, 1 egg beaten separately, MJ cupful sugar. When 
ready to roll into loaves, roll into rectangular sheets V% 
inch thick, spread with butter. Sprinkle over this 1 table- 
spoonful sugar and 1 teaspoonful cinnamon and 1 cupful 
raisins. Roll c,s jelly cake and cut into pieces one-half 
inch thick. Place in a pan and let rise until they double 
ill (Mr bulk. Bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. W. E. HAWKINS. 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT. 

One pint sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 tablespoonful 
lard, 1 teaspoonful (heaping) salt. Bake in a hot oven. 
Flour to make a stiff dough. MRS. O. C. WILLIAMS. 

LONDON BREAD. 

Three Irish potatoes, boiled and mashed; add enough 
water to make one quart; 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar. When cool add 1 cake dry yeast. When 
yeast is dissolved beat well. Stand in a warm place over 
night. In the morning take 2 quarts water, 1 sifter flour, 
3 tablespoonfuls shortening, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. Add 
yeast and add enough flour to make a stiff dough. Set it 
aside to rise. When light make into loaves. When light 
again put into the oven, baking slowly for one and one-half 
hours. MRS. H. THOMPSON. 

SEA FOAM. 

Boil two cups of soft sugar with a cup of water until it 
forms a rope ball in cold water. Beat the white of an 
egg to a stiff froth. Pour the syrup into the egg, beating 
the mixture constantly. Continue the beating until it be- 



36 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

comes firm enough to stand alone, then drop from the 
spoon on oiled paper. Flavoring should be added when the 
syrup is taken from the fire. Three-fourths cup of crushed 
nuts may be beaten in when the mixture begins to thicken. 

MARY J. FIX. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 37 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Salads 



"To make a perfect salad there should be a miser for oil, 
a spendthrift for vinegar, a wiseman for salt and a madcap 
to stir it up." 

To have your salads crisp and fresh, soak your vegetables 
in cold water for an hour. 

Meats and fish may be cut up and kept in a cool place 
but do not mix the dressing with salad until you are ready 
to serve. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Two cups diced potatoes, 1 cup diced celery, % teaspoon- 
ful onion juice, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, % cup salad 
dressing. Use lettuce leaves to line salad dish. 

MRS. M. D. PIERCE. 

COLD SLAW WITH CREAM DRESSING. 

Shredd the cabbage fine, season with salt and pepper and 
pour over the following dressing: Four tablespoonfuls of 
whipped cream, either sweet or sour, 4 tablespoons of sugar, 
8 tablespoons of vinegar, 1 tablespoon mustard. Or use a 
French dressing. K. H. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take equal parts of raw cabbage, celery and chicken 
(or any kind of meat), chop fine, and add mayonnaise dress- 
ing, salt and pepper to taste. MRS. F. M. COOK, Orosi. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Cold boiled string beans mixed with a little onion and 
calery, and either a French or cream salad dressing. 

A FRIEND. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 39 

EGG SALAD. 

Boil eggs hard. Cut the whites into thin slices. Ar- 
range a bed of cresses on a dish. Make nests of the whites, 
and put one whole yolk in the center of each nest, or rub 
the yolks through a fine strainer over the whites, put French 
dressing over the whole. Serve with cheese straws. 

MRS. W. C. HAUSER. 

CARROT SALAD. 

Four carrots (boiled until tender) 1 small onion, one- 
fourth as much celery as carrots; chopped fine and season 
with salt and pepper; mix with mayonnaise dressing, slice 
hard boiled eggs on top. MRS. FRANK HAMMON. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Two apples cut into small pieces, 2 bananas sliced, 2 
oranges, % cup- nuts chopped fine. Serve on lettuce leaves. 
Pour salad dressing on top when nearly ready to serve. 

MRS. OSTERHOUT. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Cut up nice crisp lettuce, then put in salad dish a good lay- 
er of lettuce, with a good sprinkle of finely chopped celery; 
then add a layer of English walnuts. Add next enough of 
cream salad dressing to cover. Then add another layer of 
lettuce nuts and celery till dish is full, with more of the 
cream dressing. This same salad is nice to use in scooped 
out tomato shells, and makes it very pretty with the red 
and yellow shells, upon the crisp lettuce leaf. J. A. M. 

STUFFED BEET SALAD. 

Boil the beets whole until tender; select those of uniform 
size; cut a slice off the bottom so that they will stand 
upright; scoop the inside out carefully, taking pains not 
only to avoid breaking the shell but to keep the insids as 
nearly whole as possible. Peel the shells and let them get 
perfectly cold. Cut center into cubes; a small amount of 
parboiled pototoes and celery. Mix well with mayonnaise 
or French dressing, fill the shells, laying a slice of boiled 
egg on top of each and serve on a bed of lettuce leaves. 

MRS. E. C. SCRUGGS. 



40 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

POTATO SALAD. 

One quart potatoes boiled with skins on, 1 small, white 
onion, 2 teaspoons of olive oil, pepper and salt to taste, a 
little parsley, Vz cup of weak vinegar. After potatoes are 
cold cut up into small pieces, chop the onion and parsley 
fine and mix all together. MRS. P. L. WHITE. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT EGGS. 

One tablespoon of flour, 1 of butter, 1 teaspoon of salt, 
1 teaspoon of sugar, 14 teaspoon of mustard. Mix well to- 
gether. Add 1 cup of cream. Put on fire, keep constantly 
stirring until thick, take off fire and add % cup vinegar. 

MRS. G. W. OSTERHOUT. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Four tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 table- 
spoons flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup sweet milk, % cup 
vinegar, 3 eggs, 1 large teaspoon mustard, a little cayenne 
pepper. Mix flour, sugar, salt, pepper and mustard dry. 
Then add a little of the milk to mix paste; when smooth, 
add the rest of the milk, boil in a double boiler, stirring 
constantly, till it is as thick as custard. Then add the eggs 
and cook a minute. After removing it from the stove, add 
the vinegar. This will keep for weeks if put in self sealing 
jar. When ready to serve, add whipped cream and a little 
lemon juice. MRS. J. A. MOORE. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 41 



42 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Pickles 



MUSTARD PICKLES. 

One quart each of small whole cucumbers, large cucum- 
bers sliced, green tomatoes sliced, 1 large cauliflower divided 
into small pieces, and 6 green peppers cut fine. Make 
brine of 1 gallon of water and 1 pint salt, cover vegetables 
and let stand twenty^four hours. Heat scalding hot in the 
brine and drain thoroughly. Mix 1 cup flour, 6 tablespoons 
of ground mustard and 1 tablespoon of tumeric with 
enough cold vinegar to make smooth paste. Then add 
1 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon celery seed and sufficient vine- 
gar to make 2 quarts in all. Boil this mixture until it 
thickens, stirring all the time. Add vegetables and cook 
until well heated through. MRS. JAS. SIBLEY. 

SOUR CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Make a strong brine and steep cucumbers over night. 
Add to this brine a piece of alum size of your finger to 
harden pickles, then drain thoroughly. Pack tightly in 
jars and pour over them boiled cider vinegar and seal. 

MRS. KENNEDY, Orosi. 

RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

Skin 1 gal. tomatoes, to which add 2 good-sized onions, 
3 peppers (hot), 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 y 2 allspice, 1% 
cinnamon, 1 cloves, y 2 cup sugar, salt to taste, 1 cup 
vinegar. Boil three hours or until thick. 

MRS. R. DEMAREE, Orosi. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE (SWEET). 
One-half peck green tomatos, 1 large cabbage, 10 cts. 
worth dry onions. Chop fine and drain over night. Spice to 
taste with cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, mustard, pepper and 
salt, 2 cups of sugar. Mix well and cook two hours in 
equal amounts of vinegar and water. 

MRS. MARSHALL. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 43 

MKLOX MANUOKS. 

Select firm, sound, green cantaloupes; with sharp knife 
remove one slice, take out seed, soak over night in salt 
water; then fill chopped cabbage and green tomatoes, seas- 
oned with salt, mustard seed and red pepper chopped. 
Replace slice and tie. Boil enough vinegar to cover, adding 
a cupful of brown sugar and pour over mangoes. Repeat 
boiling three mornings. (SELECTED.) 

SI 'ICED GRAPES. 

Seven Ibs. grapes (after being stemmed; Concord grapes 
are good for this), 4 Ibs. sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 1% table- 
spoons ground cloves, 1 % tablespoons ground cinnamon. 
Put a few grapes into an earthen dish and press with a 
masher .enough to loosen skins. Pick out skins and put into 
another dish. Put pulp into a kettle and boil till soft. 
Strain through a colander. Put vinegar over to boil. 
When boiling add pulp, skins, spice and sugar. Boil till 
skins are tender. 

PICKLED OLIVES. 

To each hundred pounds of olives use two 1-lb cans of 
Babbitt's lye and cover well with water. Twice a day 
draw off at bottom and pour back at top. At the end of 
four days draw off the water and put on fresh, using half 
as much lye. Leave this about three days, or till bitter is 
out. Remove lye and cover with water to which 51bs. salt 
has been added. Change this water at least once a day 
till lye is all out, then put on strong brine and leave. 

MRS. ABNER FRASER. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twenty-five ripe tomatoes, 3 onions, 2 green peppers, 
2 red peppers. Pass through food grinder. Add 2 1 / 2 cups 
vinegar, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon each of cloves and 
cinnamon. Salt to taste. Boil one hour. 

MRS. G. W. OSTERHOUT. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

One-half peck peaches (ripe). Peel and stick 6 cloves in 
each peach. Make a syrup of 2 Ibs. brown sugar, 1 ounce 
stick cinnamon, Ipinch allspice. Boil syrup twenty minutes. 
Put in half of peaches and boil until soft. 

MRS. ELAM. 



44 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

PICKLED FIGS. 

Allow y 2 Ib. of brown sugar to each pound of figs, and 1 
quart of good cider vinegar to each 10 Ibs. of figs; stick a 
clove in each fig. Let the vinegar and sugar come to a 
boil, then throw in a handful each of cinnamon bark and 
allspice; then add the figs and boil until clear about an 
hour and thirty minutes. The figs should be picked while 
still in the milk state. MRS. J. P. SHARP, Fresno. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES (SOUR). 

Pick small cucumbers, put into 2-gallon jar; add 1 cup- 
ful salt and fill with water. Let stand 24 hours. Drain 
and drop 2 quarts and 4 red peppers at a time into boiling 
vinegar; when again at boiling point fill jar, pour vinegar 
over and seal. MRS. W. A. PRESTIDGE. 

(Original.) 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck green tomatoes sliced, 6 large onions sliced, 1 
teacup of salt over both; mix thoroughly and let remain 
over night. In the morning drain off liquor and throw 
away; then add 4 green peppers chopped, a teacup of grated 
horseradish, 5 cts. white mustard seed, 1 teacup sugar and 
2 qts. vinegar. Let boil, stirring gently occasionally till the 
tomatoes are tender; then if you like add a little cinnamon 
and cloves. MRS. WYLLIE. 

CHOWCHOW. 

Two gallons of green tomatoes, % gal. of onions, *4 
pint of green and red peppers mixed, 2 large heads of cab- 
bage, 4 tablespoonf uls of white -mustard seed, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls of celery seed, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of allspice, 1 small box of yellow mustard, 1 
Ib. of brown sugar, 1 ounce of tumeric. Slice the tomatoes 
and let them stand over night in a brine not too strong, 
then squeeze out. Chop cabbage, onions and tomatoes, sep- 
arately. Mix with spices thoroughly, then put in a porcelain 
kettle, and cover with vinegar and boil slowly two hours. 
I think it best to wash the tomatoes before using them as 
you might get more salt then you intended. 

MRS. D. M. EDWARDS. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 45 

COLD CHILI. 

Take any amount of tomatoes, one-third as much cabbage, 
peppers, onions and salt and pepper to taste. Chop very 
line and pour over this vinegar to taste. 

MRS. SWEENEY, Orosi. 

WHOLE RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

Use thoroughly ripe small, round tomatoes. Do not 
prick them. Let them lie in strong brine three or four 
days, then put down in layers in jars, mixing with small 
onions and pieces of horseradish. Then pour on vinegar 
(cold), spiced if preferred. Cover carefully and set in 
cellar for a month before using. 

MRS. DEMAREE, Orosi. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

One dozen large ripe tomatoes, 4 large onions (silver 
skin), 3 green peppers, 2 teaspoonfuls whole allspice, 1 
teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 1 cupful vine- 
gar, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Add 1 tablespoonful of celery 
seeds and 1 tablespoonful of salt, if desired. Chop tomatoes, 
onions and peppers very fine, tie spices in bag and boil all 
together for at least an hour. Bottle and seal. 

MRS. GEO. HEDGEPETH. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes, 6 large onions sliced; sprinkle 
with one cup salt and stand over night. Drain and cook 
in 1 quart of vinegar and 2 quarts of water. Boil 15 min- 
utes, then drain and put in jars. Boil 2 qts. vinegar, 2 Ibs. 
brown sugar, 2 tablespoons each of allspice, cinnamon, 
ginger, cloves, mustard, teaspoon cayenne. Pour over 
pickles. MRS. H. F. SEIFRIED. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLES. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, 1 cup of salt, let stand 
over night and drain. Take 1 quart of water, I pint of 
vinegar, boil five minutes and drain again. One and one- 
half quarts vinegar, 2 Ibs. brown sugar, % ounce mustard 
seed, 2 teaspoons each cloves, cinnamon, allspice, 1 tea- 
spoon mustard. Put all in kettle and boil fifteen minutes. 



46 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Skin small white onions, lay in salt water over night. 
Boil enough vinegar to cover them with mace and whole 
peppercorns, half ounce each to half peck of onions. When 
vinegar and spices boil put in onions for five minutes. 
When cold put in wide-mouthed bottles and cork closely. 

SUSIE F. WEST. 

HEIDEN SALAD. 

One gal. chopped green tomatoes, MJ gal. chopped cab- 
bage, y 2 gal. chopped cauliflower, % gal. button onions 
or onions sliced, 1 pint green peppers. Mix 
with 1 cup salt and let stand twenty-four 
hours. Then add mustard seed, 2 table- 

spoons ginger, 2 tablespoons ground cloves, 2 tablespoons 
ground cinnamon, chopped celery, 1 y 2 Ibs. brown sugar, 2 
quarts vinegar. Boil slowly till tender, and can. 

MRS. ARTHUR DECHMAN. 

PICKLED GRAPES. 

For 6 Ibs. of fruit use 3 of sugar, a pint of vinegar and an 
ounce each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Tie spices in 
bag and boil with vinegar and sugar about 10 minutes. If 
preferred use stick cinnamon and whole cloves. Have 
grapes broken in small bunches and in jar. Pour over 
boiling vinegar. Let stand until next day, then heat vinegar 
again and pour over fruit. Repeat this three times and 
then tie cloth or cover over jar and let stand until ready 
for use. MRS. WYLLIE. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 47 



48 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 49 



50 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Preserves 



PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

To every pound of fruit weigh a pound of sugar, put 
them with the sugar over the fire in a porcelain kettle, 
bring to a boil slowly about twenty minutes. Take them 
out carefully with a skimmer and fill your hot jars nearly 
full. Boil the juice a few minutes longer and fill" up the 
jars. Seal them hot. Keep in a cool, dry place. 

MRS. E. M. PERDEW. 
PRESERVED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Take a peck of green tomatoes, slice 6 lemons without 
removing the skins but taking out the seeds. Put to this 
quantity 6 Ibs. of sugar and boil till transparent and the 
syrup thick. Ginger root may be added if liked. 

MRS. E. M. PERDEW. 
APRICOT MARMALADE. 

Cook apricots thoroughly done with as little water as 
possible. Then put through a colander. To every pound of 
pulp use % Ib. of sugar. Cook until thick and after you 
remove from the stove put 2 small cans grated pineapple 
to every gallon. Do not cook after the pineapple is in, as 
that will destroy the flavor. . You will have to watch the 
marmalade very carefully while cooking as it burns very 
quickly. Some use pound for pound. Too much sugar 
destroys the flavor of the apricots. 

MRS. D. M. EDWARDS. 
QUINCE HONEY. 

Pare your quinces and slice small enough to put through 
your meat chopper and after they are ground fine to every 



For fine Ice Cream and 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 51 

cup of pulp put 2 cups of cane sugar. Cook until you think 
it thick enough. I think you will like this. 

MRS. E. M. PERDEW. 

MARMALADE. 

One quart ripe tomatoes measured after the fruit has 
been peeled, 2 Ibs. sugar, 2 oranges, 1 lemon. Remove 
pulp from oranges and lemon with spoon. Boil rind until 
tender and cut them in narrow strips with a pair of 
scissors. Put all ingredients on to boil, stirring constantly 
for two hours or until marmalade is thick and strips of 
rind are transparent. Seal. Made of yellow tomatoes the 
marmalade is beautiful in color. MRS. ELAM. 



52 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 53 



54 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Pies 



CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Beat together y 2 cup of sugar, 1 cup of milk, butter size 
of an egg. Add IV 2 tablespoons of grated chocolate, the 
yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, 1 % tablespoons corn starch dis- 
solved in a little cold milk, % teaspoon of vanilla. Stir 
the mixture over fire until thick and smooth. Make a rich 
crust as large as pie plate and bake. Fill the baked crust 
with custard and place on top a gill of rich cream which 
has been whipped to a froth. MRS. W. J. HADEN. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Heat 1 cup of milk with 2 tablespoons of grated chocolate, 
cream yolks of 3 eggs, % of a cup of sugar. Add to milk, 
flavor with vanilla. Bake in lower crusts and put whites of 
the eggs on top. MARY PIERCE. 

LOVER PIE. 

Make custard of 1 pt. milk, 1 cup sugar, lump of butter 
size of an egg, 3 large tablespoons flour, yolk of 6 eggs; 
season with vanilla. Use double boiler. Make frosting of 
whites and brown slightly in the oven. Enough for two 
pies. MRS. N. W. MILLER, Orosi. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Half cup stewed and sifted squash (not watery but dry 
and mealy), 1 cup boiling milk, % cup sugar, y 2 teaspoon 
salt, saltspoon cinnamon and 1 egg beaten slightly. Mix in 
the order given. Line a plate with paste, put on a rim or 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 55 

scallop the edge of paste and fill with squash. Pumpkin 
pies are made in the same way. 

MRS. ARTHUR DECHMAN. 

RAISIN PIE. 

Wash thoroughly 1 package of Thompson seedless raisins, 
cover with water and boil until tender. Add 2 cups sugar 
and thicken with 3 tablespoons of flour mixed smooth in a 
little water. Stir until the flour is cooked. Bake between 
two crusts. Put small pieces of butter between and a little 
nutmeg if liked, on the pie before putting on the top crust. 
This is sufficient for three pies. MRS. JAS. SIBLEY. 

RAISIN PIE. 

One cup seeded raisins, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 cup sour cream. Yolks of 3 eggs well beaten. Bake 
with one crust. Add well beaten whites flavored with a little 
lemon and vanilla and brown nicely. 

MRS. JAS. SIBLEY. 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon grated rind and juice, 2 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 
1 cup of boiling water, 1 tablespoon of corn starch, a large 
lump of butter. MRS. FRANK DONLEY. 

COCO AN UT PIE. 

One cup cocoanut, 1 cup of sugar, 2 eggs, a large lump 
of butter, nearly 1 pint of milk, 2 teaspoons of flavoring, 
stir the butter and sugar to a cream, stir this with the 
beaten eggs; cook the cocoanut in the milk and let cool, 
then mix all together. MRS. FRANK DONLEY, Dinuba. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Line deep pie tin with paste made as follows: 1 cupful 
of flour, % cupful of lard, a little salt, butter the size of a 
walnut and very cold water. Filling: One cupful of 
strained pumpkin, 1 cupful of rich milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
cream, 1 egg well beaten, a pinch of salt-, ^ cup of sugar to 
which has been added % teaspoonful of cinnamon and J /4 
teaspoonful of ginger. MRS. E. C. DENEEN. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat 3 eggs slightly, add 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 saltspoon 
salt, 1 saltspoon of nutmeg, pour on 2 % cups scalded 



56 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

milk, strain into a deep plate lined with paste. Bake 
slowly and the moment a knife blade comes out clean it is 
done. If desired reserve the white of one egg. When pie 
is cooled a little cover with a meringue made of the egg 
well beaten and % cup sugar. 

MRS. ARTHUR DECHMAN. 

CARAMEL PIE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, % cup butter, cream to- 
gether; % cup milk, 5 eggs, 1 cup damson plum preserves 
(or any tart preserves) 1 teaspoonful vanilla. This makes 
two pies baked in single crust (in moderate oven). 

MRS. SCRUGGS. 

MOCK MINCE MEAT. 

Six soda crackers rolled fine, 2 cups cold water, 2 cups 
molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup cider or vinegar, 1 cup 
melted butter, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 
teaspoonful cinnamon, allspice, cloves, black pepper and 
salt, 8 or 9 apples chopped fine. MRS. F. H. WILSON. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Two Ibs. beef, 2 Ibs. suet, 4 Ibs. raisins, 4 Ibs. apples, 1 
Ib. citron, 2 Ibs. sugar, 2 whole nutmegs, V z oz. cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful salt, % Ib. lemon peel, % oz. mace and cloves, 

2 qts. of wine. MRS. FRANK DONLEY. 

CREAM PIE. 

One cup pf sweet milk, 1 cup (large) of sugar, yolks of 3 
eggs, butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonful of flour; 
boil until it thickens, stirring constantly. Then fill the shell 
(which has been baked previously) with the mixture and 
ice with whites of eggs. 

MRS. A. B. WASGATT. 

PIE CRUST. 

Three cups flour, 1 cup sweet lard, teaspoon salt; rub 
flour, salt and lard together, use ice water to make dough. 
This makes two pies. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 57 



58 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 59 



60 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Cookies 



COOKIES. 

Two eggs, 2 cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful sour cream, 1 cupful 
butter, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful nutmeg. Flour 
sufficient to roll out. MRS. T. F. WILLIAMS. 

POTATO DOUGHNUTS. 

One and one-half cupfuls sugar, 5 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, 1 cupful mashed potatoes, 1 cupful of sweet milk, 
1 egg, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, a pinch of salt. 
Flavor to taste. Mix soft, roll, cut out and fry in hot lard. 

MRS. F. S. CLIFTON. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

One-half cupful of sugar, 1 cupful of butter, % cupful 
sweet milk, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoonful grated nutmeg, 3 tablespoonfuls English currants 
or chopped raisins. Mix soft and roll out using first 
enough flour to stiff, sufficiently cut out with a large cutter, 
wet the tops with milk and sprinkle with sugar. Bake in 
buttered tins in a quick oven. MRS. E. C. W. SCRUGGS. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

Cream 1 cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 4 eggs beaten 
well. Add % teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little water. 
Add 3 cupfuls flour, 1 cupful chocolate. 

MISS ELSA RUSCHHAUPT. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful sugar, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, a pinch 
of salt, 1 cupful sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 2 eggs, nut- 
meg to taste. Don't mix hard. Have the lard hot. 

MRS. LEETTA COBURN. 

Home-made Candies and 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 61 

FRUIT DROPS. 

Cream 2 cupfuls sugar and % cupful butter, % cupful 
lard, % cupful sweet milk. Three eggs beaten separately, 
3 cupfuls flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, % teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful nutmeg, 
1 cupful chopped raisins, 1 cupful nuts. Drop with a tea- 
spoon into a well greased pan. 

MRS. EDNA DONLEY. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

One cupful of brown sugar, 1 cupful of molasses, % cupful 
butter, % cupful lard, % tablespoonful ginger, 2 eggs, 
6 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls soda dissolved in 
water. Just enough flour to handle dough easily. 

MRS. D. DONOVAN. 

ROCKS. 

One and one-half cupfuls brown sugar, 1 cupful butter 
or lard, 2 l / 2 cupfuls flour, 3 well beaten eggs, 1 tablespoonful 
soda dissolved in boiling water, 1 cupful walnuts, 1 cupful 
chopped raisins. Drop in small spoonfuls or bake in gem 
pans. MRS. F. S. CLIFTON. 

NUT CRISPS. 

One cupful sugar, % cupful butter, 1 egg beaten separate- 
ly, 2 cupfuls rolled oats, 1 cupful nuts, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla. Drop from spoon or pan. 

MISS ELSA RUSCHHAUPT. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Three cupfuls sugar, 2 cupfuls butter, 1 small cupful sour 
milk, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful soda, flavor to taste. Flour to 
make a soft dough, roll very thin and bake in a quick oven. 
If desired brush cookies over with the yolks of egg, beaten 
tablespoonfuls milk, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 cup- 
ful chopped nuts. Flour sufficient to make as soft as 
with a little milk, then sprinkle sugar, cinnamon and 
chopped nuts on top. MRS. W. C. HAUSER. 

Hot Chocolate at Brower's 



62 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

HOT COOKIES. 

Two cupfuls sugar, 2 eggs, % cupful melted butter, 6 
possible to handle. Bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. M. D. PIERCE. 

ROLLED OAT MACAROONS. 

Two and one-half cupfuls rolled oats, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, 3 teaspoonfuls butter, 1 cupful sugar, 3 
eggs beaten separately, */ teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful 
vanilla. Cream butter and sugar, add the well beaten yolks, 
then the rolled oats, salt, baking powder and vanilla. Add 
the whites beaten stiff. Drop on buttered pans not larger 
than 50-cent piece. MRS. GEO. DUNN. 

EDENKOBERS. 

Two eggs, 1 cupful sugar, ^4 pound almonds pounded 
to a paste, *4 pound chopped citron, *4 pound candied 
lemon peel, 2 tablespoonfuls drained honey, 2 cupfuls flour, 
^/z teaspoonful baking powder. Mix to a paste, roll out and 
cut into small cakes. Bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. J. F. WILLIAMS. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One-half cupful sugar, 1 cupful molasses, % cupful 
shortening, lard or butter, 1 cupful boiling water, 1 even 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in water, 2 cupfuls flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful each ginger and cinnamon, 1 egg well beaten, 1 
cupful raisins seeded and floured. Bake in a slow oven. 

MRS. E. E. FIX. 

HERMIT COOKIES. 

1 cupful white sugar, 1 cupful brown sugar, 1 small 
teacupful butter, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls sour milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful nut- 
meg, pinch of salt. Flour to make soft batter. Roll and bake 
in a quick oven. MRS. E. P. CONRAD. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 63 



64 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK ($5 



Cakes 



DINUBA RAISIN CAKE. 

Four eggs, 1 cup butter, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup sour 
milk, 4 cups flour sifted three or four times, 4 cups raisins, 
1 nutmeg, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, % tablespoon cloves, 
1 desertspoonful of soda add dry sprinkling in last. 

MRS. W. P. DAY. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

One cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 4 well beaten eggs, 
3 cupfuls well sifted flour, 2 teaspoonfuls chocolate, % 
cupful cream or milk. Flavor light part vanilla. Stir 
chocolate in one-half mixture. Put alternately in deep 
pan. Bake in moderate oven. MRS. ELAM. 

BURNT LEATHER CAKE. 

Nine tablespoons of milk, 1 cup of white sugar, 1 % 
cups of flour, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons butter. Put all together 
and beat for twenty minutes. Put % cup brown sugar in 
granite pan and heat until it smokes well. Take off the 
stove and put in % cup of warm water and stir until it 
cools. Can do this before mixing the cake. Use 3 
tablespoons of liquid in frosting. The sugar for frosting 
must be cooked a little harder than for common frosting 
as the 2 tablespoonfuls of liquid thin it too much if you do 
not cook it more than usual. MONTICELLO FIX. 

NUT CUP CAKES. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, creamed 
together; two cups flour, one cup milk, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, 3 whites of eggs, added 
last, 3-4 cups chopped nut meats, flovoring. 

MRS. B. W. KENNING. 



66 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Twenty eggs, 2 Ibs. butter, 2 Ibs. powdered sugar, 2 Ibs. 
flour, 1 Ib. citron, 1 Ib. ground figs, 2 Ibs. raisins, 2 Ibs. 
currants, 1 teacup of brandy and 4 teaspoons of baking 
powder. Spices to taste. Fruits floured and put in last. 

MRS. O. C. WILLIAMS. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, creamed, 2 cups of flour, 
y 2 cup of sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 2 
eggs, flavor with lemon. Chocolate filling: Two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of Walter Baker's chocolate, scant cup of 
milk, y 2 cup of sugar, lump of butter. Boil until right 
consistency. Flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. KIRKPATRICK. 

DRIED APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 

Soak 3 cups of dried apples over night in enough cold 
water to swell them. Chop them in the morning and put 
on the fire with 3 cups of molasses. Stew until almost 
soft, add a cup of nice raisins and stew a few minutes 
longer. When cold add 3 cups of flour, 1 cup of butter, 3 
eggs and a teaspoonful of soda, % nutmeg, 1 teaspoon of 
cinnamon. Bake in a steady oven. This will make two 
good-sized cakes. MRS. B. C. W. SCRUGGS. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, 1 cup melted butter 
and lard, 3 eggs beaten separately, 1 cup sour milk, 2 tea- 
spoons of soda, 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon, 
y 2 teaspoon of cloves, 1 cup of chopped raisins, 1 cup of 
nuts, a little salt. Flavor with vanilla. Bake as loaf or 
in layers. MRS. C. S. DE LANO. 

MRS. CLIFTON'S PRIZE RAISIN CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, y 2 cup of shortening 
(-cant), 2 eggs, 1 cup of buttermilk, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup 
of chopped and seeded raisins, 1 teaspoonful each of soda, 
cinnamon and cloves. Filling: One cup of sugar, 14 cup 
of water, boil until it hairs and then add the beaten white 

For fine Ice Cream and 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 67 

of 1 egg. Stir until it commences to thicken and then add 
1 cup of chopped raisins and flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. WYLLIE. 

SILVER CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, iy 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 
3 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder, the 
whites of 6 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

MRS. F. L. WHITE. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, 
1 full teaspoonful of good baking powder, 1 teaspoonful 
lemon extract, whites of 10 eggs. Cream sugar and butter 
together. Add milk by beating in a spoonful at a time. 
Sift flour and baking powder together six times and beat 
into cake one spoonful at a time. Add lemon extract last. 
Whip eggs to stiff froth. Add about two spoonfuls at a 
time to mixture. Then beat until smooth and creamy. 
Pour into pan and bake slowly till done. This can be used 
either for loaf cake, or layer cake. Delicious. 

MRS. B. FRANKLIN. 

WINE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 cups flour, 1 cup port 
wine, 2 cups chopped raisins, 1 whole egg and whites of 
4, 1 teaspoonful of soda, % teaspoon salt. Bake in three 
large layers or four small ones. Put together with white 
boiled icing. MRS. B. M. HOLLAND. 

MBS. B. DUNN'S DEVIL FOOD CAKE. 

Two cups of brown sugar, y 2 cup sour milk, y 2 cup 
boiling water, % cup butter, % cup chocolate, 2 cups 
flour, 1 level teaspoonful soda, 2 eggs. This will make 
three layers. Filling: Two cups brown sugar, y 2 cup 
sweet cream, y 2 cup butter. Cook until waxy. One pound 
nuts if desired. MRS. R. F. DUNN. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup 
of mashed potatoes, 1 cup of chopped walnuts, 1 cup of 

Candies see Mrs. Carlson 



68 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

ground chocolate, % teacup of sweet milk, 4 eggs, tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon and nutmeg, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls 
baking powder sifted with flour, pinch of salt. 

MRS. A. TIMMONS. 

HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

Yolks of 3 eggs and 1 cup of sugar creamed, 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla, % teaspoonful of salt, y 2 cup of boiling water, 
1 cup of flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Add 
stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. Bake in slow oven. 

MRS. GEO. DUNN. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

Two cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 2 level teaspoons soda, 1 
level teaspoon baking powder, 1 level teaspoon cinnamon, 
Vz teaspoon cloves, % teaspoon nutmeg, 2 tablespoons 
corn starch, 3 tablespoons chocolate. Sift all together until 
well mixed. Stir into this 1 cup nuts and 1 cup raisins. 
Mix *4 cup butter with 1% cups apple sauce. Into this 
add the dry ingredients. Stir until well mixed and bake 
one hour. MRS. J. R. CLOTFELTER. 

JAM CAKE. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, 3 eggs, % cup sweet milk, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 2 cups flour, 
1 cup jam. JESSIE MARTIN. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 
(Fit for the Angels.) 

Two cups sugar, % cup butter, 2 eggs, % cup bakers' 
chocolate dissolved in one-half cup boiling water, a little 
salt, 1 teaspoon soda, y 2 cup sour milk and 3 cups flour. 
Bake in layers. Filling: One-half cup of cream or rich 
milk, % cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix 
these together with 2 tablespoons chocolate and cook until 
it becomes waxy; then cool and spread quickly on layers. 

MRS. A. B. WASGATT. 

ANGEL'S FOOD CAKE. 

Whites of 11 eggs beaten stiff, 1% cups of granulated 
sugar, sift three times, 1 cup of flour, sift five times, 1 
teaspoon of cream tartar, sift five times with flour. Add 
the sugar slowly to the eggs, then the flour and cream of 
tartar and any kind of flavoring. Turn quickly into an 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK QQ 

ungreased tin and bake forty-five minutes. When done 
take out and turn upside down and leave until it falls out 
of pan. MRS. JOHN L. RHODES. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Two eggs, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 cup coffee, 1 Ib. chopped raisins, 1 cup chopped 
nuts, 3 spoons baking powder, 3 spoons cinnamon cloves, 
4 cups flour. MRS. FRANK STARK. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 
teaspoon soda, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup cold coffee, spices to 
taste, cloves, allspice arid cinnamon, enough flour to make 
quite thick and bake into loaf. MRS. E. P. CONitAD. 

FRUIT CAKE BY MEASURE. 

Two scant teacups butter, 3 cups dark brown sugar, 6 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 1 Ib. raisins 
seaded, 1 Ib. currants, washed and dried, ^ Ib. citrou cut 
in thin strips, also ^ cup cooking molasses and ^2 cup 
sour milk. Stir butter and sugar to a cream, add Mi- 
grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoon brown cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, 1 teaspoon mace. Add molasses and sour milk. 
Stir well. Add beaten *eg yjollos, wine glass grape juice. 
Stir again. Add 4 cups sifted flour, the beaten whites of 
eggs. Dissolve a level teaspoon soda and stir in. Mix 
fruits together and stir into it 2 heaping tablespoons 
liour, then stir into cake. Butter baking pan, lined with 
letter paper well buttered and bake in modern oven 2 % 
hours, perhaps a little longer. 

MRS WM. MACKERSIE. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, 1 of butter, 3 cups of flour, the 
v/hites of 6 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 cup of 
sweet milk. Cream the butter and sugar together. Sift 
the baking powder and flour three times, add to the butter 
and sugar, beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the milk 
and last fold in the whites of the eggs. 

MRS. J. W. FRASER. 



70 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Sift together 1 cup of flour, % cup of corn starch, I tea- 
spoonful of baking powder; add 1 cup of sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful extract of rose, then add the whites of 8 eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Mix thoroughly and bake in a 
well buttered cake tin in a quick oven thirty minutes. 

MRS. J. P. WILLIAMS. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Yolks of 8 eggs, 1 cup sugar, % cup butter, % cup milk, 
1% cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Flavor with 
lemon. MRS. J. P. WILLIAMS. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, 5 eggs beaten very light, 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons 
of baking powder, \' z cup of water, the juice and grated 
rind of 2 oranges. Bake in layers or loaf. Orange filling 
for cake: Juice and grated rind of 2 oranges, % teacup of 
sugar, enough water to dissolve 1 % teaspoons of gelatine. 
Let all boil ten minutes and spread between layers. 

JESSIE M. MARTIN. 

WORLD'S FAIR t'AKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, % cup of butter, % cup 
of milk, 1 % cups of flour, 3 eggs beaten separately, 1 large 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Prepare the following and 
add to cake: Six tablespoons of chocolate and 8 level 
tablespoons of sugar dissolved in 2 tablespoons of scalded 
milk. Bake in large flat pan. Frosting: Two cups of 
sugar, butter size of an egg, % cup of milk. Boil fifteen 
minutes and pour into bowl and stir rapidly until it thick- 
ens. Add 1 tablespoon of vanilla. Spread on cake. 

MRS. GORDON C. GIFFEN. 

FRUIT OR WEDDING CAKE. 

Ten eggs, 1 Ib. sugar, 1 Ib. flour, 1 Ib. butter, 3 Ibs. 
raisins, 1 Ib. currants, % Ib. citron, % Ib- orange, 25 cents 
walnuts, 1 nutmeg, all kinds of spice, % teaspoon soda, 
1 gill molasses, 1 glass currant jelly, 1 cup prunes stoned, 
cooked and without juice. Dissolve soda in water and add 
just before fruit. Bake four hours, having oven merely 
warm to begin, gradually increase heat for two hours, then 
moderate oven until baked. MRS. WYLLIE. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 71 

CARAMEL PILLING. 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup white sugar, butter the 
size of an egg, % cup milk, % teaspoonful of salt. Boil 
seven or eight minutes. When you remove from the stove 
add vanilla and stir until the consistency of cream. 

MRS. B. M. HOLLAND. 

BOILED FROSTING. 

One cup of sugar, 5 tablespoons of cream or milk (if milk 
is used put a little butter in), stir all the time until it 
threads. Set in a dish of cold water until thick. 

MRS. DONLEY. 

ICING FOR CAKE. 

One-fourth cup sugar, 4 tablespoons water. Boil four 
minutes; take from fire, stir in powdered sugar. 

MRS. G. W. OSTERHOUT. 

COFFEE ICING. 

One cup powdered sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 table- 
spoon chocolate. Cream together, then add 2 tablespoons 
boiling coffee or boiling water and flavor. 

MRS. G. W. OSTERHOUT. 

EGG FROSTING. 

One teacup sugar, 4 tablespoons cold water. Boil till it 
strings. Pour slowly into beaten white of egg. 

MILK FROSTING. 

One cup sugar, 6 tablespoons milk, a little butter or 
cream. Boil till it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

Melt 1 square unsweetened chocolate, add 1 cup sugar 
and 1 cup milk. When comes to boil thicken with either 
flour or corn starch; remove from stove, add 1 cup chopped 
nuts and spread on cake. 

MISS ELSA RUSCHHAUPT. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One cup of milk, 1 cup of sugar, % cup of chocolate, 
butter size of an egg. Boil until thick and creamy, add 
small teaspoon of vanilla and beat until thick enough to 
spread on cake. MRS. G. W. 'WYLLIE. 



72 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



CREAM FILLING. 

One cup cream whipped to a solid froth, % cup sugar, 
1 teaspoon flavoring. Mix lightly together and use at once. 

MRS. WYLLIE. 

ORANGE FILLING. 

Juice of large ripe orange, beat with pow'd sugar till it 
will spread. Stir until it is smooth and creamy and add 
teaspoon of the yolk of an egg. 

MRS. C. W. SEIFRIED. 

OPERA CARAMEL FROSTING. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, % cup thin cream, 
% teaspoon butter. Cook until a ball is formed when 
the mixture is tried in cold water. Beat until ready to 
spread. MRS. H. F. SEIFRIED. 

FUDGE FILLING. 

One square unsweetened chocolate, 1 % cups sugar, y 2 
scant cup milk, a piece of butter size of walnut. Let come 
to boil, then beat while boiling four minutes. When cooler 
add vanilla. 

MOCA FILLING. 

Six tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar, 6 tablespoonfuls un- 
sweetened cocoa, butter size of an egg, 4 tablespoonfuls 
hot coffee. Beat until smooth. Flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. J. H. McCRACKEN. 

LOVELY CAKE. 

One-half cup sour cream, 1 cup sugar, % cup milk, 3 
eggs, 2 cups flour, % teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, pinch of salt and flavor. Bake in layers. Filling: 
One-half cup thick cream whipped until very thick; add % 
cup sugar and 2 tablespoons of ground chocolate and flavor. 
Spread on layers when cold. GEORGIE PIERCE. 

CRACKER CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of finely rolled crackers, 1 cup 
finely chopped walnuts, 2 % sticks of chocolate, l / 2 cup of 
milk, 1 rounding cup of sugar, y 2 cup of butter, 1 heaping 
teaspoon of baking powder, 1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 tea- 
spoon nutmeg, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon lemon, 7 
eggs. MRS. H. H. BURUM. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 73 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

Whites from 11 to 14 eggs, 1 cup flour, 1% cups sugar, 
1 teaspoon cream of tartar, pinch of salt in flour. Sift flour 
and sugar, each separately, six times. Beat eggs until they 
begin to froth well, then add cream of tartar and beat 
until very light. Slowly add sugar, giving it time to dis- 
solve as it is stirred; then slowly add flour. Bake in un- 
greased pan, with paper cap for covering. Do not open 
oven door for fifteen minutes after placing cake in it. 
Bake forty minutes. Turn upside down after baked, allow- 
ing it to gently fall from pan. MRS. LANDIS. 



74 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 75 



76 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 77 



78 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 79 



Puddings 



FIG PUDDING. 

One Ib. dried figs chopped fine, 1 cupful suet chopped fine, 
2 cupfuls bread crumbs moistened with milk, 1 cupful 
brown sugar, % cupful white sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, 
1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder, 2 cupfuls flour, % 
nutmeg, teaspoonful cinnamon, pinch salt. Mix well, tie in 
damp floured cloth and boil three and one-half hours. 
Serve with any desired sauce. 

MRS. J. P. SHARP, Fresno. 

NORWEGIAN PRUNE PUDDING. 

Wash 1 Ib. prunes, boil until stones can be removed. 
Stones may be cracked and meats added to prunes with 1 
scant pint water and 2 cupfuls sugar. This should make 
a quart mixture. Let come to a boil. Add 1 scant cupful 
corn starch mixed with a little cold water; stir until it 
thickens and cook a little. Add juice % lemon, mold and 
serve with whipped cream or sauce. Sauce: Whites of 3 
eggs beaten stiff; add % cupful sugar; add beaten yolks 
eggs; flavor. MRS. A. DECHMAN. 

PLAIN RICE PUDDING. 

Soak % cupful raw rice in 1 pint warm milk for two 
hours. Keep milk warm by setting vessel in warm water. 
.Put a pinch of salt into milk with pinch of soda. After 
the milk has been absorbed add a quart of milk. Turn 
into a pudding dish, add 4 tablespocnfuls sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful melted butter, and 1 teaspoonful vanilla or nut- 
meg or cinnamon. Set in a pan of hot water in a slow oven 
for two hours. Add more hot milk if the rice grows dry. 

MRS. W. H. ELAM. 



80 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

DATE PUDDING. 

One cupful suet, 2 cupfuls bread crumbs, 2 
cupfuls dates, 1 cupful sugar 3 eggs, I tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, nutmeg, % teaspoonful cloves, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking piowd/er. Mix well with 
water and steam three hours. MRS. F. DONLEY. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

One cupful grated carrots, 1 cupful grated potatoes, 1 
cupful sugar, y 2 cupful butter, 1 cupful flour, 1 cupful 
raisins, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in warm water, a 
pinch of salt, spices to suit. Cook in double boiler for 
three hours. MRS. E. E. FIX. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Dissolve a box of Knox's gelatine in a quart of milk a 
few minutes, put on fire in double boiler; beat the yolks 
of 3 or 4 eggs with 1 cupful sugar to a cream, stir into 
the milk when nearly boiling. Let it come to a boiling, 
take off the fire, add a pinch of salt and the beaten whites 
of the eggs. Flavor with lemon extract, mold in pudding 
mold or cups, serve with cream. Make evening before 
using. If a pinch of coloring is desired dissolve the little 
tablet that comes in gelatine. 

MRS. W. C. HAUSER. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Five slices bread soaked in cold water. Wring dry in 
napkin. One-fourth teaspoonful each cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice, 1 heaping tablespoonful chocolate, 1 cupful brown 
sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cupful chopped raisins, % teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, vanilla to taste. Steam one and one- 
half hours and serve with hard sauce. 

MRS. J. P. SHARP, Fresno. 

GRAHAM BUDDING. 

Two eggs, 1 scant cupful milk (sour), 1 heaping cupful 
graham flour, 1 cupful chopped raisins, % cupful molasses, 
1 teaspoonful each soda, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, salt. 
Steam three hours. Sauce: One cupful sugar, 1 beaten 
egg, V-2 cupful butter stirred to a cream with sugar, grated 
rind and juice of 1 lemon. Beat thoroughly with sugar and 
butter. Add 5 tablespoonfuls of hot water one at a time. 
Keep hot but do not boil. MRS. F. S. CLIFTON. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK gl 



SNOWBALLS. 

One-half cupful sugar, % cupful butter, % cupful milk, 
whites of 4 eggs, 1 cupful flour, % cupful corn starch, 
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Pour in butter cups and 
steam three-fourths of an hour. Serve with following 
sauce: One cupful sugar, % cupful butter creamed; add 
a box strawberries hulled and mashed. 

MRS. J. R. CLOTFELTER. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

One can grated pineapple, 1 cupful sugar, cooked to- 
gether. Soak % box Knox's gelatine in cold water enough 
to dissolve. Stir hot pineapple into gelatine. When this 
begins to set, add 1 pint cream whipped stiff. Put into a 
mold and set from three to four hours. 

MRS. MAXWELL HAMILTON. 

WABFOBD PUDDING. 

Three-fourth cupful sugar, 1 egg, butter size of walnut, 
or egg, 3 tablespoonfuls buttermilk, a pinch of salt, % cup- 
ful jelly or preserves, 1 cupful flour, % of a level teaspoon- 
ful soda, little cinnamon. Put in pan and bake. Don't 
grease pan. Serve with sauce. Especially good for using 
up left over jam or jellies. MRS. FITZSIMMONS. 

PEACH PUDDING. 

Two tablespoonfuls melted butter, % cupful sugar, 1 egg, 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg, % teaspoonful soda, % cupful sour 
milk. Beat in % cupful flour, add 2 cupfuls sliced 
peaches. Steam one hour. MRS. M. D. PIERCE. 

ORANGE SPONGE. 

Juice of 6 oranges and 1 lemon, 2 cupfuls sugar. Dis- 
solve l /2 box gelatine in % cupful cold water, then add Vz 
cupful hot water, and a little coloring that comes in pack- 
age of gelatine. Add juice and sugar. Beat the whites 
of 3 eggs to a stiff froth. Stir in when mixture is about 
cold and beat until whole is stiff and frothy. Then pour 
into molds or the halves of orange skins and sorve with 
whipped cream. MRS. WARREN FRASER. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One cup bread crumbs, 1 pint milk, % cup sugar, % 
cupful Baker's chocolate, yolks 2 eggs. Mix all together. 



82 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

Put on range until it thickens. Put into oven for a few 
minutes. Beat whites of eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 
and spread on top. Let it slightly brown in oven. 

MRS. M. D. PIERCE. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup finely chopped suet, 2 cups of fine bread crumbs, 
1% cups sugar, 2 cups seeded raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 cup 
chopped blanched almonds, % cup citron sliced thin, 1 
orange and lemon peel, 1 teaspoon each salt, cloves and 
grated nutmeg, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 4 well beaten eggs. 
Dissolve a level teaspoon soda in tablespoon of warm water. 
Flour the fruit thoroughly from a pint of flour. Mix the 
remainder as follows: In a large bowl put the well beaten 
eggs, sugar, spices and salt and a teaspoonful of milk; stir 
in the fruit, chopped nuts, bread crumbs and suet until all 
are used, putting in the dissolved soda last, adding enough 
flour to make the fruit stick together, which will take all 
of the pint of flour. Tie up in a cloth and boil four hours. 
Serve with lemon or any kind of well flavored 
sauce. MRS. F. H. WILSON. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

To % cup soaked tapioca add 1% pints water and boil 
until clear. Add 1 cup sugar, flavor and pour over 6 apples 
cut in eighths. Bake one hour. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 83 



84 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK g5 



86 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Candy 



COCOANUT CREAMS. 

Take 3 cups white sugar, 1 cup milk; boil ten minutes. 
Add 1 cup cocoanut with teaspoon of corn starch dry. Boil 
five minutes, then pour into a dish and stir until creamy. 
Cut into inch squares. MRS. B. R. YOUNGER. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

One package Knox gelatine, dissolved in 10 tablespoons 
cold water, 8^2 cups sugar dissolved in 14 tablespoons hot 
water, 1 teaspoonful salt. Prepare gelatine, also sugar and 
water, stir gelatine into the sugar and water, beat fifteen 
minutes, pour into square pan. Let stand over night, then 
cut in squares and roll in powdered sugar. 

FUDGE. 

Two cupfuls brown sugar, 2 cupfuls white sugar, 4 table- 
spoonfuls chocolate, 1 cupful rich milk or cream. Add 1 
teaspoonful butter (butter added after boiling commences) 
cook until it makes a soft ball in cold water. Take from 
fire, add 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Stir until it begins to 
thicken. Spread on plates. Nuts may be added if wished. 

RACHEL ELAM. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Three cupfuls brown sugar, 1 cupful New Orleans mo- 
lasses, 1 cupful hot water, % teaspoonful cream tartar, 
butter size of walnut added after boiling commences. Stir 
constantly. Boil until it hardens in cold water. Flavor 
with peppermint. When cool pull until light. Cut into 
half inch pieces with scissors. FLORENCE FOSTER. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two cups molasses, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 table- 
spoon vinegar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon soda. Boil 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 87 

molasses, vinegar and sugar until it will harden in water. 
Add butter and soda, pour on buttered tins and pull. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cup chocolate, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, % cup 
milk. Boil slowly until it will harden in water. When 
nearly done add piece of butter size walnut. Do not stir. 
Pour on buttered plate to cool and mark in squares. 

PINOCHE. 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup white sugar, 1 cup sweet 
milk. Boil all together slowly on stove and add a very 
small pinch of soda to prevent milk from curdling. Flavor 
with vanilla. When boiled it will hair. Remove from fire 
and stir. Then spread on tins. Nuts of any kind may be 
added. 

BUTTERSCOTCH. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 4 tablespoons Orleans mo- 
lasses, % tablespoon butter, 4 tablespoons water, *4 tea- 
spoon vanilla. Boil until it hardens when dropped into 
water. Pour on buttered tins. 

PANOCHE. 

Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, butter size of 
walnut. Boil until it makes soft ball in cold water. Re- 
move from fire, add chopped nuts. When cool cut in 
squares. MRS. WARD. 

SEA FOAM. 

Two cups brown sugar, % cup boiling water. Boil until it 
forms soft ball in cold water, then pour over beaten white 
of an egg. Stir until stiff enough to drop from spoon on 
greased paper. Nuts may be added if desired. 

MRS. F. S. CLIFTON. 

FONDANT. 

Two cups sugar, % cup water, 2 tablespoons glucose. 
Boil until it will form ball in cold water. Do not stir 
while boiling. Remove from fire and when quite cool stir 
until it is white and then knead. The more it is worked 
the finer the cream. A great variety of candies can be 
made by using this fondant with different flavors, nuts, 
chocolate, etc. MRS. WARD. 



gg LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 

TURKISH PASTE. 

One cup nuts, 1 cup dates, 1 cup figs, 1 cup raisins. 
Grind fine and mix in powdered sugar. Roll thin and cut 
in squares. MRS. WARD. 

MUNICH CREAM. 

One cup cream, 3 cups sugar; stir until it boils; add % 
teaspoon cream tartar. Boil twenty minutes. Remove 
from fire and stir until it whitens. Flavor to suit. 

MRS. WARD. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Beat whites of 4 eggs stiff, add 5 tablespoons cold water, 
flavor; add confectioner's sugar until stiff enough to knead. 
Let stand until it hardens. This is the foundation for a 
great many candies by using different flavors and nuts, etc. 

MRS. WARD. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



90 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 91 



92 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Household Hints 



TO REMOVE AXLE GREASE. 

.Spread butter evenly on the spot. Let remain there until 
thoroughly soft and greasy, then wash out in soft, soapy 
water and the stain will come out and no marks left. This 
will be found valuable, especially for children's clothes. 

TO DRIVE AWAY ANTS. 

In one-fourth of a cupful of water put one teaspoonful 
each of sugar and tartar emetic. Place in the haunts of 
the ants. Also good for getting rid of roaches. 

POUR ROWS OF BUTTONS. 

Instead of using 2 rows of buttons on my little girl's 
waists, as is usually done, I sew on 4 rows and so make 
last year's petticoats and this year's dresses fit together 
without showing a line between the hem and the bottom 
of the skirt. Also this year's petticoats and last year's 
dresses fit together without the skirts hanging below. 

FRUIT STAIN REMOVER. 

Before the goods are wet moisten the spot with camphor 
and the stain will come out when washed. This is especial- 
ly good for table cloths. 

Lemon juice and salt is very good for removing fruit 
stains in clothing. After rubbing into the spot put out in 
the sun. When dry, wash well. 

TO REMOVE STAINS FROM ENAMELED WARE, SINKS, 

ETC. 

Sprinkle chloride of lime liberally over sink, moisten with 
cold water, let stand and after a few hours wash off and 
find perfectly white sink. 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 93 

TO IMPROVE YOUR STARCH. 

Make starch in the usual way then add teaspoon each 
of turpentine and powdered borax. 

TO KEEP RICE FROM STICKING 

When cooking rice, if the seasoning of butter is added, 
when the rice is put on to cook, it can be covered and left 
until done, providing enough water was put on at first, and 
it will not run over. 

TO FRESHEN REFRIGERATORS AND MILK ROOM 

Charcoal is recommended as an absorber of gases in 
the milk room. It should be freshly powdered and kept 
there continually, especially in hot weather when unwhole- 
some odors are most liable to infect the milk. 

TO WHITEN CLOTHES 

A teaspoonful of powdered borax put in the last water 
in which clothes are rinsed will whiten them surprisingly. 

A tablespoonful of turpentine boiled with your white 
clothes will greatly aid the whitening process. 

TO BANISH MUSTY ODORS AND ABSORB MOISTURE 

Keep unslacked lime in damp cellars to absorb moisture 
as well as to banish musty odors. 

To freshen your closets when cleaning sprinkle chloride 
of lime on shelves and floor, close tightly for several 
hours. Sweep up and the result is delightful. 



94 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 95 



96 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Miscellaneous 



VELVET ICE CREAM. 

To make 1 gallon: Two quarts of cream, 1 quart of milk, 
2 1 / 2 cups sugar, 1 package of Knox gelatine. Pour cream in 
the freezer. Dissolve sugar in heated milk and pour in 
gelatine previously soaked in four tablespoons cold water; 
stir to melt it. Let cool and lastly add flavoring extract. 
Put all together the very last moment when all is ready 
to freeze. % salt, % fine chopped ice. Pack two hours to 
ripen. (This is especially fine.) 

MRS. F. S. CLIFTON. 

APRICOT ICE. 

One quart apricot pulp, juice of 3 lemons, pinch of salt, 
2 cups sugar, cold water to fill gallon freezer within two 
inches of top. MRS. SETH SMITH. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 

Use small can grated pineapple, juice of 2 lemons, 1% 
cups sugar, pinch of salt. Add water to nearly fill half 
gallon freezer. Mix the ingredients and let stand several 
hours before freezing. This allows sugar to melt. Same 
proportions for strawberry; crush and put through sieve. 

MRS. LE ROY G. SMITH. 

GRAPE JUICE OR SWEET WINE. 

Select thoroughly ripe grapes (I prefer concord or zin- 
fandel), wash and pick from stems, crush and cover with 
cold water as for jelly. Bring to the boiling point, strain 
through jelly bag and return juice to stove, adding l / 2 cup 
sugar to each gallon (you may leave out sugar) heat again 



LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 97 

to the boiling point and bottle or seal in boiling hot jars 
or bottles. Jf you use corks be sure to boil them. 

MRS. LE ROY G. SMITH. 

ROSE PETAL CONSERVE. 

Mix 2 cxips of white sugar with 2 cups of water, place 
on stove and when it comes to a boil stir in 1 quart of 
rose petals. Let boil until it becomes a thick syrup. Re- 
move and let cool, then spread on bread and serve as 
sandwiches with coffee. Any kind of rose petals may be 
used but do not mix them. MRS. D. C. AMSDEN. 

NUT PABFAIT. 

One pint whipped cream, whites of 3 or 4 eggs, a /& cup 
sugar, y cup water, 1 cup English walnuts, 1 tablespoon 
vanilla. Nuts to be slightly crisped in the oven, cooled and 
rolled with rolling pin instead of . chopping them. Beat 
twice to stiff froth. Boil sugar and water same as for 
frosting and pour slowly on the beaten whites and beat un- 
til cool, add nuts, vanilla and whipped cream. Pack in 1 Ib. 
baking powder cans in ice and rock salt and let stand 3 % 
hours or more, if packed in one large can or freezer. 

MRS. F. J. WALKER. 

CREAM PUFFS 

One-half cup butter melted in cup hot water, put in a 
small pan to boil; while boiling stir in 1 cup flour; take off 
and let cool; when cold stir in 3 eggs, one after the other, 
without beating. Drop on buttered tins and bake in a hot 
oven twenty or thirty minutes. Filling: One-half cup 
whipped cream, white of 1 egg beaten to a stiff froth, 
1 tablespoon sugar, % teaspoon vanila. Mix well and 
fill puffs when cold. MRS. R. D. DEWHIRST. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch almonds by boiling them for twenty minutes 
in 1^4 cups water in which is dissolved % cup salt. Re- 
move skins and dry in towel by moving them around. Then 
fry in hot olive oil and butter (equal parts) till a pretty 
brown. Remove from hot fat and place on brown paper, 
changing paper occasionally, and sprinkle with fine salt. 

MRS. J. A. MOORE. 



98 LADIES' AID COOK BOOK 



Dinubas 
Cash Store 



W. J. Henderson, Prop. 



The Place 
Where You 
Get Your 
Money's Worth 



Dinuba* Cal 




Will not recommend these 
Receipts unless you 

Use Rochdale 

Baking Powder 

We carry a full line of 

Groceries 




We have a 
complete 
\line of all 
Kinds and Styles. Gents' 1 Furn- 
ishings. Suits made 
to order. 

Dinuba 
Company 

S. J. McCORKLE 

Manager 




.,;..H"i"i"i"i"H' M 1 1 n i I.I..I..I..I..I..H..M..M 1 1 M-M"i"i"i"M"H"i' 



Something New 
Every Day 

The latest designs and best quality of 
Goods at the Lowest Prices is our aim. 
Dry Goods, Clothing, Hats, Boots and 
Shoes, Fancy Goods, Groceries and 
Hardware 

L. & E. Seligman 

Department Store Dinuba, Cal. 



The Dinuba Hotel 



Newly furnished. Large veranda. 
Lately repainted and papered. All 
outside airy rooms. Rates reason- 
able by day, week or month. 

t C. P. Iverson, Prop. Dinuba, Cal. 



>DOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 



Clean Clothes 



Are as essential to good health 
as goon cooking, and of vastly 
more importance to good looks. 
We are prepared to do all kinds 
of laundry work in the very best 
manner, and our work is the 
kind that pleases. Family wash- 
ing rough dro, 45c a dozed. All 
white labor employed. Call or 
phone our agent phone 283 
and the wagon will call. 

Visalia Steam Laundry 

E. C. W. Scruggs, Agent, Dinuba 

>OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCXX)COOOOO 

"Rochdale Brand" 

IS THE 

Quality Sign 

If you want something good, call for 
Rochdale Spices, Extracts, Baking Powder. 
For sale at all Rochdale Stores. 

Rochdale Wholesale Co., 

San Francisco, Cal. 



United States 'National Bank 
of Dinuba 

General Banking Business 
Capital $25,000.00 Dinuba, California 



Aha District Lumber Co. 

Dinuba, California 

LUMBER 

All Kinds of 

Building Material, 

Orchard and Vineyard 
Supplies 

J. R. CLOTFELTER, Dist. Mgr. 



BLACKSMITH 
and WAGON SHOP 

Joseph A Jeers, Proprietor 

Horse-shoeing, all kinds of implements and 
vehicles repaired, buggies and wagons sold. 



For Furniture, Carpets, 
Linoleum and Mattings 

See ERNEST SWEET 




Useful Gifts 

Are doubly appreciated. We 
would be pleased to show you 
our superb line of high grade 

Silverware 

for the toilet table at tempting 
prices. Combs and Brushes, 
Puff Boxes, Pin Trays, Hat 
Brushes, Hand Mirrors, etc. 
The collection is remarkably 
extensive and attractive. 

W. C. Hauser 

Dinuba, California 



WANTED 

5000 Men, Women and 
Children to know that 

A. L. DICKEY 

Now has and always has a large and 
complete line of HORSE GOODS to 
se?J, and is always pleased to have 

YOU 

To call and inspect them 



******************** * * * * * ***************** 

I 
j 

Dinuba Meat Market 

A. Iverson, Prop. 

Dimiba, California 



* 



i 

$ Buyer of 

* 

Beef Stock, Hides and Pelts 

f Wholesaler and Retailer of Meats on 
Foot or on the Block 



' * * * * * * * 'I' * ** 




Don't be downcast on the 
subject of 

CLOTHING 
SHOES, HATS 

Furnishing Goods 

We have offers that 
will spruce you up and 
make you smile with sat- 
isfaction. 

Here is the place 

Wasgatt's 
Toggery 

Dinuba - California 



can Recommend 

The receipts in this book if you 
use the right kind of Cooking 
Utensils and a 

Good Stove 

THE BRIDGE & BREACH 
COOK STOVE is a good one 
and our stock of Cooking Uten- 
sils is complete. Call up 'Mean 
261 when you need something 
for your kitchen 

Dmuba Hardware Store 

W. F. DAY 



^**>fr********** * * * * -I' 'I' ***** ** 
f 











That's our business. If you need any 
pieces in your dining room, parlor, bed- 
room or library, let me give you prices 
G. M. DOPKINS Dinuba 



* >$. > 



* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ********* 



** * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * M************** 



Want to Save Money? 

Do your trading at 

"The Model Store" ! 



4 . 

You will always get firstclass goods at t 
the lowest prices. We give cash checks, re- 
deemable in chinaware, portraits and rugs. 

We carry Dry Goods, Ladies' and Gents' 
Furnishing Goods, big line of Shoes, Hats 
and Underwear. 

GRANT OLIVER, Proprietor 



********** * * * * * * * 



^ ***** *********** 



DR. E. F. CONNER 
DENTIST 

Central Block Building Phone 34 



A. N. LOPER, M. D. 

PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON 



Residence, Alia Ave., North, Phone 1473 
Office. Central Block, Phone 1471 



J. A. MOORE, M. D. 



Phone 1481 Dinuba, California 



Our Reputation for Fair and Square Dealing has ex- 
tended over a period of 20 years. Established 1889 

The Fresno Nursery 

F. H. Wilson, Prop. 
FRESNO and DINUBA, California 

We have for sale this season a complete stock of 

Deciduous Fruit Trees and Grape Vines 

All Leading Commercial varieties. Our stock is 
grown on New Virgin Soil, true to name and first- 
class. "Once a customer always a customer," is 
pur motto. Write us for prices on your wants. 
Catalogue free. Address our Main Office when 
writing, to THE FRESNO NURSERY, 

P. O. Box 615 Fresno, California 






Plumbing of all Kinds 



By Experienced Plumbers 

At Reasonable Rates 

* 
*& 

Houses connected with water, houses plumbed 

and oil burners installed. Call us up by phone 
and get our prices. 

Muncy & Thorp 






U. C. '03 Main 571 > 

DR. R. E. MORTON 
DENTIST 



Hours Morton Building 

9 to 12 a. m., 1 to 5 p. m. Dinuba, California ** 

****^^ 



Phone Main 1521 

1 1 



Dr. Wm. Whittington 

Diseases of the Lungs a Specialty 



Rooms 3 and 4 

CENTRAL BLOCK BLDG., DINUBA, CALIFORNIA \ \ 

*'*^*^**^ 



GEO. S. REY, D. V. S. 
VERTINARY SURGEON 

PHONE MAIN 271 DINUBA, CAL. 

^M>*MM^4"H^4^^4>'t' * * * ** * * * * * * * 'I' ******* 



The Pure Food Law 



Makes it Prohibitory to 
sell any but 

Strictly Pure Extracts 

Unless labeled 

COMPOUND 

We make all our own Flavoring Extracts 
and guarantee them absolutely free from all 
artificial coloring and chemical flavoring. 
One teaspoonful will go as far as three of the 

Ordinary Kind 

We handle all the Spices in bulk and we 
guarantee them the best or money refunded. 

Allspice, Cloves, White and Black Mus- 
tard Seed, Tumeric, Cinnamon, Bay 
Leaves, Thyme, Sage, Celery 
Seed, Anise Seed, Caraway 

Seed, Mace, Ginger, 
White, Black and Red Pepper 

J. H. McCRACKEN, Ph. G. 

Phone Main 600 






i 










