
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



BOSTO}<l 

Medical Library 
8 The Fenway 



M 



ized by Google 



y\nj 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



MRS. RORER'S 
VEGETABLE COOKERY 

AND 

MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



Vegetables with meat value 

Vegetables to take the place of meat 

How to cook three meals a day without 
meat 

The best ways of blending eggs» milk and 
vegetables 



By SARAH TYSON RORER 

Author of Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book, Philadelphia Cook 

Book, Canning and Preserving, Bread and Bread Making 

and other valuable works on cookery 

PHILADELPHIA 

ARNOLD AND COMPANY 

420 SANSOM STREET 



Digitized by 



Google 



Copyright 1909 by Saiah Tysow Rom 
All Rights Rcgerred 



Printea At the Sign of the hry Leaf 
an Sansom Street Philadelphia 
by Geofse H Buchanan ConuMny 



Digitized by 



Google 




PREFACE 

tHE spirit as well as the letter of this hook is 
[universally needed. Over-eating of meat has 
^had its day, and has left us as a reminder 
much sickness and sorrow. 

Most "vegetarian" cook-books that have come 
under my notice contain many unhygienic, indigest- 
ible, tasteless and unattractive dishes. 

I cannot believe that a dish is wholesome or 
to be specially recommended simply because it 
is made entirely from vegetable materials. For 
instance, a pie made from vegetable fats rubbed 
with flour is no more acceptable to the stomach 
than one made from sweet butter and flour. Heated 
fats are never to be looked upon with favor. 

It is not my purpose in this book to promul- 
gate any cult, nor have I written it to show the 
wisdom of a strictly vegetable diet. My aim is to 
present clearly, concisely and simply, in a logical 
fashion, the best meat substitutes and their artistic 
and hygienic accompaniments. 

Sarah Tyson Rorer 



51[51 tEZZZZ=^SiP[ E 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Prefacb 3 

Introduction 7 

appbtizers 9 

Soups 14 

A Division of our Common Vegetablbs . . 38 

In the Place of Meat .... 39 

Eggs 63 

Sauces 81 

A Group of Starchy Vegetables . . . S6 

The Green or Succulent Group . . 99 

Artichokes ...... 99 

Asparagus 102 

Beans 106 

Beets 107 

Cabbage to8 

Savoy 114 

Cauliflower 115 

CoUards 116 

Brussels Sprouts 116 

Kale 117 

Kohl-Rabi 118 

Carrots ...... 118 

Celery 120 

Com 121 

Cucumbers 127 

Eggplant 127 

Horseradish 129 

5 



Digitized by 



Google 



PAOI 

Okra 129 

Onions 131 

Green Peas 134 

Peppers 136 

Radish 138 

Salsify . . ' 139 

Spinach 140 

Stachys 141 

Tomatoes 142 

Turnips 146 

Mushrooms ...... 147 

Salads 154 

Salad Dressings 169 

Plants Used as Flavorings . . . . 172 

Garnishes for Salads, etc. . . . 173 

Breads 175 

Quick Breads . . . . . 181 

Sandwiches 189 

Canning and Preserving . . . . 196 

To Can Fruits 196 

Jelly Making 199 

Preserving 201 

Marmalades or Jams .... 203 

Fruit Juices ...... 204 

Conserved Fruits 205 

To Can Vegetables 209 

Desserts 213 

Pudding Sauces 231 

Fruits 233 

Nut Milks and Nut Creams . . . 245 

A Few Dainty Odd Dishes . . . 246 

Daily Menus 249 — 315 

Index 317 



Digitized by 



Google 



FOREWORD 

Vegetables are divided into four groups. The 
first group is the muscle-making, or nitrogenous. 
These have meat value and take the place of meat. 
Old peas, beans, lentils and nuts are the chief in 
this group. Mushrooms contain nitrogen but in no 
way take the place of meat. 

Such manufactured foods as macaroni, spaghetti 
and the cereals also contain nitrogen mixed with a 
goodly quantity of starch, for which reason they are 
placed in the carbohydrate group. 

In this book eggs, milk and cheese are added to 
the nitrogenous group to give variety to the meat 
substitute dishes. 

The second group— the carbohydrate — are heat- 
and energy-producers, hence must be used in larger 
quantites than the muscle-building foods — ^meat sub- 
stitutes. In this second group we have rice, sweet 
and white potatoes, white bread, chestnuts, macaroni 
and spaghetti and the cereals. 

In the third or fatty group we have only certain 
nuts and olives. 

The last group, by far the largest of the four, con- 
tains the green, succulent vegetables, largely water, 
some mineral matter, and a great deal of flavoring 
material. They are important as cleansers. They 
keep up the peristaltic action of the intestines. These 
foods are also called waste or bulk foods and are to 
my mind just as necessary to the balanced ration as 
the first three groups. 

Olive oil and nut fats take the place of cream and 
butter and may be substituted in all the following 
recipes for butter without change of quantity. 



Digitized by 



Google 



All vegetables not containing starch — ^lettuce, 
chicory, cabbage and celery — may be eaten raw. 
Beets, carrots and turnips do not contain starch. 
Eaten raw they are dense and indigestible unless 
thoroughly masticated or grated. 

All vegetables should be put over the fire to cook 
in rapidly boiling water, and in uncovered vessels. 

Top-ground, succulent or green vegetables should 
be cooked in salted boiling water. 

Underground vegetables, the roots and stems of 
plants, should be cooked in boiling unsalted water. 
Salt should be added after they have been drained. 

Old peas, beans and lentils should be washed and 
soaked over night. In the morning drain, cover with 
fresh boiling water, boil half an hour, drain, and 
throw this water out. They are now ready to cook 
according to any of the various recipes. This first 
treatment makes them more delicate and wholesome. 

The vegetables containing volatile flavorings — 
onion, cabbage, cauliflower and Brussels sprouts — 
should be boiled in salted water in an uncovered vessel 
or they will emit a very unpleasant odor. 

Vegetables containing starch — rice, potatoes, chest- 
nuts — ^must be boiled imtil tender but not a moment 
longer or they will become heavy and soggy. 

Many nitrogenous vegetables contain vegetable 
casein and cannot be easily cooked in hard or lime- 
stone water. 

If vegetables are wilted, soak them in clear, cold 
water before cooking. Under no circumstances add 
salt to the water as it draws out the juices, hardens 
the fibre and destroys the flavor. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MRS. RORER'S VEGETAB LE COO KERY 
AND MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



APPETIZERS 

The word "cocktair* is applied in our bills of fare 
to appetizers. It really no longer means a mixture 
of liquors. We have oyster cocktails, clam cock- 
tails and fruit cocktails in great variety. These 
cocktails, or appetizers, take the place at a vegetable 
dinner of oysters and clams. Any mixture of fruit 
may be used, served in punch glasses, or in the skins 
of such fruits as oranges and grape fruit. You may 
serve with them either small spoons, ordinary 
oyster forks, or a fruit fork. 

A good combination is banana, pineapple and 
lemon. Half a pineapple may be mixed with three 
lar^e ripe bananas, peeled and cut into blocks, 
seasoned with the juice of a lemon, and a table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. These may be 
served either in glasses or in half of the banana 
shells. In the Spring, place the banana shell on 
a fern frond just a little larger than the shell, 
stand it on a dainty dish and send it to the table. 
Canned fruits may be used, provided they are 
nicely blended. They must not, however, be sweet, 
or they will destroy rather than create an iippetite. 

9 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 MRS. RORER'S vegetable COOKERY 

Chopped peaches and oranges make a very nice 
combination and may be served in the orange shells. 
Canned apricots and candied or canned cherries 
with orange juice, served in orange shells, are 
exceedingly dainty. 

STRAWBERRY COCKTAIL 

Slice large strawberries into punch glasses, allow- 
ing about four to each person. Remember, this is 
an appetizer, not dessert. Put a teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar in the centre and squeeze into each 
glass the juice of half a lemon. Stand these in a 
cold .place. At serving time, add a tablespoonful of 
shaved ice. Stand each glass on a little doily on a 
dainty plate. 

ORANGE COCKTAIL 

Cut the oranges into halves ; with a spoon scoop out 
the pulp, rejecting the seeds. Stand the pulp aside 
to get very cold. Clean out the shells and throw 
them into ice water. At serving time, put the pulp 
into the orange shells, add a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered sugar to each and a little shaved ice. Serve 
these on doilies on small dishes. The pulp of one 
grape fruit may be added to the pulp of four 
oranges. 

GRAPE FRUIT COCKTAIL 

Cut the grape fruit into halves. Scoop out the pulp, 
being very careful not to get any of the inner or 
white skin. Clean the shells and throw them into 



Digitized by 



Google 



APPETIZERS 11 

cold water, putting the pulp aside to get very cold. 
At serving time, take the shells from the water and 
dry them. Put into the bottom of each a table- 
spoonful of shaved ice. Fill them half full with the 
pulp. Put a tablespoonful of sugar in the centre, 
and arrange them for serving. Oranges may be 
mixed with grape fruit if desired. 

LEMON COCKTAIL 

Select six large lemons, cut them into halves cross- 
wise, and, with a tablespoon, used as a sort of 
scoop, take out all the juice. Then carefully clean 
out the shells; throw them into cold water. To 
each three lemons allow a pint of ripe red cher- 
ries. Stone the cherries, dust them lightly with 
sugar and stand them aside. Select six large red 
roses. Cut a little end from each lemon rind, fill 
them with the cherries, put over each a teaspoon- 
ful of the lemon juice and stand them in the 
centre of the red roses. Mash the roses a little so 
that you can place them flat on a small plate. Garnish 
with a few green leaves. 

RASPBERRY CUP 

Mash one pint of ripe currants; strain carefully 
through cheesecloth. Pour the juice over one pint of 
large raspberries. Stand them aside to cool. At 
serving time, fill lemonade cups half full of rasp- 
berries and juice; put in the centre of each a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar and send to the table. 



Digitized by 



Google 



12 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

CANTALOUPE COCKTAIL 

Plain cantaloupes are frequently served at the 
beginning of dinner. They may be cut into halves, 
crosswise, the seeds removed, and each half dished 
on a dainty mat on a breakfast plate ; or the centre 
of the cantaloupe may be filled with either sliced 
orange or a small quantity of grated pineapple. 

WATERMELON COCKTAIL 

Select a very ripe watermelon ; take out the central 
portion and cut it into cubes of one inch. Make a 
shell of less than half of the watermelon rind, put 
the cubes back into the shell, dust them very 
lightly with powdered sugar, squeeze over the juice 
of four oranges and send to the table. This will 
be served in small glass dishes with oyster or fruit 
forks. 

PEPPER COCKTAIL 

Select medium-sized green peppers ; cut off the stem 
end and remove the seeds. Throw the peppers into 
cold water until crisp. Peel two good-sized toma- 
toes, cut them into halves and remove the seeds. 
Cut the flesh of the tomatoes into small pieces, add 
to it a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a tea- 
spoonful of soy, the juice of half a lemon, and, if 
you have it, a saltspoonful of celery seed. At serv- 
ing time, stand the peppers in small saucers of 
cracked ice, pressing them down into the ice. Fill 
each half full with the tomato mixture, put on the 
lid, and send them to the table. Serve with these 
either a fruit or an oyster fork. 



Digitized by 



Google 



APPETIZERS 13 

TOMATO COCKTAIL 

Select small, smooth, round tomatoes, one for each 
person. Do not peel the tomatoes, but cut off the 
stem end and scoop out the seeds, taking out a 
portion of the flesh without breaking the skin. 
Chop it fine. Add to it one grated cucumber, one 
pimiento chopped fine, a small onion, grated, 
a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of celery seed. 
Stand this aside until very cold. At serving time, 
dish the tomatoes in small saucers of finely cracked 
ice. Fill them half full of the mixture and send to 
the table. Serve with this either an ordinary or a 
five o'clock teaspoon. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 

The water in which all vegetables are boiled may be 
saved for the making of either thick or cream soups. 
It may also be used as the basis for stock, and when 
I speak of stock in this bopk I mean a vegetable 
stock — ^something that can be kept on hand to be 
used for purees or cream soups. An ordinary 
colander will answer for the draining of vegetables, 
but a puree-sieve should be used for thick vege- 
table or cream soups. It is quite difficult to 
make a perfectly clear, brilliant vegetable bouillon, 
but if the following recipes are observed in detail, 
the results will be very satisfactory. 

Vegetable soups are more nutritious than meat 
soups. We shall divide these soups into three 
classes: Clear soups, which should be used at the 
beginning of a dinner or a heavy lunch ; milk, or the 
so-called cream soups, to be used for luncheons or 
suppers where they are counted as part of the 
nutrition of the meal; thick purees, which may be 
used for dinner or lunch, and which contain suffi- 
cient nitrogen to take the place of meat. 

STOCK 

Scrape and chop fine one carrot ; peel and chop one 
onion; wash and chop the outer portion and the 
green leaves of one head of celery and peel and chop 

II 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 15 

two good-sized turnips. Put in your kettle a table- 
spoonful of sugar. Let the sugar bum and then add 
four tablespoonfuls of olive or peanut oil and all the 
vegetables; shake over the fire for at least half an 
hour until the vegetables are slightly browned. 
Then add two quarts of cold water, a half pint of 
canned tomatoes, or two whole tomatoes cut into 
pieces, one apple cored but not pared, a teaspoonful 
of salt and either a chopped green pepper or a dash 
of cayenne. Cover and simmer gently for one hour. 
Strain and stand aside to cool. This may be served 
as clear soup or it may be used half-and-half with 
milk for a cream soup, or it may be used for a 
puree in the place of milk, or for macaroni, rice or 
vermicelli soup, or reheated and used the same as 
consomme. 

JULIENNE SOUP 

Cut into shreds a young carrot ; throw it into boil- 
ing water and boil until tender. Add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of nicely cooked green peas and a 
few shreds of lettuce. Heat a quart of stock; add 
the vegetables ; season and serve. 

TOMATO BOUILLON 

Peel four good-sized tomatoes ; cut them into halves 
and press out the seeds. Chop the tomatoes and 
add them to a quart of stock. Boil twenty minutes ; 
drain carefully through a fine sieve; season with 
salt and pepper. Serve in bouillon cups with a 
tablespoonful of whipped cream on top. 



Digitized by 



Google 



16 MRS. RORER*S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

MOCK CLAM BOUILLON 

Scrape a dozen roots of salsify; put them at once in 
cold water to prevent discoloration. Cut into slices 
and put them in one quart of stock ; add a teaspoonf ul 
of salt, a dash of cayenne and a saltspoonful of 
celery seed. Boil until tender; strain; reheat and 
serve in bouillon cups with a tablespoonful of 
whipped cream on top. The salsify or oyster-plant 
may be used for vegetable oysters, or may be served 
as a vegetable. 

CONSOMME WITH ALMOND BALLS 

24 almonds Whites of two eggs 

yi pint stale bread-crumbs 2 quarts stock 

I teaspoonful salt 

Blanch and put the almonds through a meat 

grinder. Add them to the bread-crumbs; add the 

salt and the whites of the eggs unbeaten. Work 

this mixture until it is moist, and then roll into tiny 

balls. Brown them in hot oil; lift them with a 

skimmer and drain them on brown paper. Put them 

at once into the soup-tureen and pour over the stock 

that has been heated and seasoned. 

CONSOMME WITH GERMAN FARINA BLOCKS 

1 egg 4 tablespoonfuls farina 

2 teaspoonfuls olive oil i quart stock 

Yz teaspoonful salt 

Beat the egg without separating until light; then 
stir in the farina and the salt. Put the olive oil in 
a shallow frying-pan. When hot, pour in the farina 
mixture. Push it on the back part of the stove 
where it will brown slowly. Then turn it as you 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 17 

would a pancake and brown it slowly on the other 
side. Cut the cake into cubes of a half inch, put 
them in the soup-tureen and pour over the stock 
heated and seasoned. 

CONSOMME k la ROYAL 

I egg 5^ teaspoonful onion juice 

I quart stock i saltspoonful salt 

yi saltspoonful pepper 

Beat the egg until the white and yolk are well 

mixed; add the onion juice, salt, pepper and two 

tablespoonfuls of milk. Turn the mixture into a 

small custard cup, stand it in a pan of hot water 

and cook in the oven until the custard is set. Turn 

it out carefully and cut it into dice. Put these dice 

into the soup-tureen and pour over the hot stock. 

IRISH SOUP 

I can green peas i saltspoonful celery seed, or 

Whites of two eggs i tablespoonful green tops of 

I quart stock celery chopped fine 

H saltspoonful salt i saltspoonful pepper 

Drain the peas carefully; wash them and drain 
again. Press them through a sieve sufficiently fine 
to reject the skin; add the salt, pepper and celery. 
Beat the whites of the two eggs very lightly, add 
them to the peas, and turn them into a square tin 
basin or pan. Stand the pan in another of boiling 
water and cook in the oven for at least twenty min- 
utes, until the mixture is set. Let it stand in the 
pan until cool, then turn it out carefully on a board 
and cut it into blocks or fancy shapes. Bring the 
stock to boiling-point, drop the blocks in and serve at 
once. 

2 



Digitized by 



Google 



18 MRS. RORER's vegetable CCX)KERY 

SAGO SOUP 

This recipe will also answer for tapioca soup. Wash 
carefully two tablespoonfuls of sago or tapioca. 
Add to a quart of stock, bring to boiling-point and 
cook until transparent. Season and serve. 

BARLEY SOUP 

2 tablespoonfuls pearl barley i quart stock 

Wash the barley in cold water; cover it with boil- 
ing water; boil rapidly for five minutes and drain. 
Cover it again with fresh boiling water and let it 
cook slowly for at least two hours; drain. This 
water may be saved to use as barley water or it 
may be put aside to use in to-morrow's stock. At 
serving time, heat a quart of stock, add the barley, 
let it boil five minutes, and serve. 

INDIAN SOUP 

I tablespoonful peanut or i quart stock 

other butter i onion 

I large sour apple Juice of half a lemon 

I teaspoonful (or sprig) of i teaspoonful curry powder 

thyme i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls rice 

Put the butter in the kettle; add the onion, sliced; 
cook slowly without browning; then add the apple, 
cored and sliced, but not pared; add all the season- 
ings; stir for a moment and add the stock. Cover, 
bring to boiling-point and simmer gently ten min- 
utes. Wash the rice; throw it into boiling water 
, and boil until tender. Drain it, put it in the soup- 
tureen and strain over the hot soup. Many persons 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 19 

serve with this soup a large dish of boiled rice and 
put a helping of rice in the centre of each soup-plate 
before ladling in the soup. 



PORTUGUESE SOUP 

I quart stock i large onion or 3 leeks 

8 nice prunes i teaspoonful salt 

I teaspoonful paprika 

Wash the prunes and soak them in cold water over 

night. One hour before serving time, cut the onion 

or the leeks into slices; put them in the stock and 

cook on the back part of the stove. At serving 

time, add the prunes, salt and paprika. Turn at 

once into the tureen. Have at the side of the 

tureen bits of toast at least two inches square. 

These must be toasted carefully in the oven until 

crisp to the centre. Put a square in the centre of 

each plate, ladle over the soup, allowing two prunes 

to each person. This quantity will serve four. 

PUREE OF TOMATO 

1 can tomatoes i small onion 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i saltspoonful ground mace 
2 tablespoonfuls flour i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Put all the ingredients, except the butter and flour, 
into a saucepan. Bring to boiling-point; add the 
butter and flour, rubbed together. Stir and boil for 
five minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, pressing 
through as much of the pulp as possible. Reheat 
and serve with croutons. If fresh tomatoes are 
used, select eight good-sized tomatoes; cut them 
into pieces. It is not necessary to peel them. Cook 
twenty minutes before adding the thickening. 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

PEA AND TOMATO SOUP 

I can peas or i pint green i onion 

peas Yi pint chopped celery 

1 quart stewed tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

either canned or fresh i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i saltspoonful pepper 

Peel and chop the onion ; put it with the tomatoes, 
peas and all the seasoning into a saucepan. Bring 
to boiling-point and boil fifteen minutes. Add the 
butter and the flour, rubbed together. Cook ten 
minutes longer, and press through a sieve. Serve 
with croutons. 

CELERY AND TOMATO SOUP 

I quart tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

I pint chopped celery 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

I pint water i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Put the water, the celery and the tomatoes into a 
saucepan; stew thirty minutes and press through a 
sieve. Add the butter and flour, rubbed together. 
Reheat, season and strain into the tureen. Serve 
either with croutons or with puff-balls. 

PUREE OF DRIED BEANS 
Wash and soak one pint of soup beans over night. 
In the morning, cover them with fresh boiling water, 
boil five minutes; drain and. throw the water away. 
Cover with two quarts of boiling water and cook 
until the beans are tender. Press through a 
colander. Return the soup to the kettle and add 
a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and a table- 
spoonful of either ordinary dairy butter or nut 
butter. Serve with croiitons. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 21 

PUREE OF DRIED PEAS 

Make the same as puree of dried beans. 

PUREE OF LENTILS 
Make precisely the same as puree of dried beans. 
Lentils cook more quickly than beans. If either of 
these purees settle, they are too thin; add a little 
thickening of flour, reheat and serve. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 

1 pint black turtle beans i lemon 

2 quarts stock i teaspoonful salt 

2 hard-boiled eggs i saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the beans and soak them over night. In the 
morning drain, cover with boiling water and boil 
thirty minutes; drain, throwing the water away. 
Add the stock and cook slowly for two hours. 
Press the whole through a colander and then 
through a sieve. Rinse the kettle and return the 
soup to it; add salt and pepper. Slice the eggs 
and the lemon; put them into the tureen, pour over 
the boiling thick soup and serve. 

MEXICAN BEAN SOUP 

Make precisely the same as black bean soup, using 

red kidney beans. Add, after the soup is strained 

and ready to serve, a Spanish sweet pepper, cut into 

strips. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

I carrot 4 tablespoonfuls rice 

54 pint peas H pint fresh beans 

I tomato H teaspoonful salt 

I turnip I saltspoonful pepper 

2 quarts water 

Scrape the carrot, peel the turnip, and cut them into 
dice. Put them in a kettle with the water and beans; 



Digitized by 



Google 



^2 MRS. RORER S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

these may be young lima beans, or just the ordinary 
kidney beans. Cook slowly thirty minutes. Add 
the tomato, peeled and cut into bits, the peas, salt 
and pepper. Cover and cook thirty minutes longer. 
While these are cooking, boil the rice, drain it, and 
throw it into the soup. The soup is now ready to 
serve. Corn and white potatoes may also be added. 

MOCK MEAT SOUP 

I carrot 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil, or 

I turnip 2 tablespoonfuls peanut oil 



3 or 4 stalks celery i onion 

, tablespoonfuls rice i teaspoonful salt 

i pint canned or cooked i saltspoonful pepper 

peas 2 quarts water 



A 



Scrape the carrot, peel the turnip and cut into dice. 
Wash and cut the celery into small pieces. Put the 
oil in the bottom of the soup-kettle ; when very hot, 
throw in the carrot, turnip and onion, sliced, and the 
celery. Shake until brown. Add two quarts of water ; 
cook slowly thirty minutes ; add the peas, the rice, well 
washed, the salt and pepper. Cook fifteen minutes 
longer and serve. 

PUREE OF VEGETABLES 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil 2 tablespoonfuls rice 
I onion 2 quarts cold water 

I teaspoonful thyme 2 tablespoonfuls corn- 

I carrot starch 

I turnip Yz pint tomato 

3 stalks celery i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Put the oil into a frying-pan ; add the onion, sliced ; 
cook until well browned; then turn into a soup- 
kettle, with the carrot and turnip chopped, and all 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 23 

the other ingredients, except the cornstarch. Add 
the water; cover and simmer gently one hour. 
Press through a colander and then through a sieve. 
Return to the kettle; add the cornstarch moistened 
in a little cold milk; bring to a boil, and serve with 
croutons. 

PEAS PORRIDGE 

1 pint split peas l head celery 

6 leeks, or 2 good-sized i pint mashed potatoes 

onions 2 quarts water 

2 slices bread i teaspoon ful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i saltspoonful pepper 

Wash and soak the peas over night. Next morn- 
ing, put them in a kettle with the water. Cut the 
onions or leeks into slices; chop the green portion 
of the celery; put them in a frying-pan with the 
butter that has been heated; stir until they are a 
golden brown. Put them into the soup-kettle with 
the peas; add the bread, salt and pepper. Cook 
slowly one and a half hours. Press through a puree 
sieve, returning the soup to the kettle; add the 
mashed potatoes and bring to boiling-point. Strain 
through a fine sieve and serve at once with croutons. 
This should be a thick puree; if not, add a table- 
spoonful of butter and one of flour, rubbed together, 
just before bringing it to the last boil. Peas porridge 
should be almost as thick as breakfast oatmeal or 
mush. It is highly nutritious; in fact, it has more 
than meat value. Served at the beginning of a 
dinner, one would only need a salad and dessert to 
make the meal complete. 



Digitized by 



Google 



24 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

GROSSMUTTER SOUP 

2 young carrots i bay leaf 

I potato I teaspoonful kitchen bou- 

I quart boiling water quet or browning 

1 onion 2 slices bread 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I egg I saltspoonful pepper 

Scrape and slice the carrots ; peel and slice the potato. 
Put the butter in a shallow pan; when hot add the 
vegetables ; shake until they are well browned ; then put 
them into the soup-kettle with the water ; add the bay 
leaf, the salt and pepper; simmer thirty minutes; 
press through a sieve ; return, to the kettle ; add the 
kitchen bouquet. Cut the bread into dice ; beat the 
egg without separating; add the bread, and stir 
until each piece of bread is covered with the egg. 
Lift the bread from the egg, drop it into the soup, 
bring to boiling-point, and serve. 



SOUPS WITH MILK 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP 

I bundle asparagus i quart milk 

1 pint water i slice onion 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i l^y leaf 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Cut the tips from the asparagus and throw them 
into cold water; put them aside to use either for 
asparagus in ambush or for asparagus salad in toma- 
toes. Cut the remaining portion of the bundle into 
small pieces; wash them in cold water; put them 
in a kettle; add the pint of water and stew gently 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 26 

for half an hour. Press them through a colander, 
taking as much of the flesh as possible. Put the 
milk into a double boiler; add the bay leaf and 
the butter and flour, rubbed together; cook until it 
is slightly thickened; add the salt, the pepper, and 
the asparagus pulp; stir until hot, and serve. If 
overcooked, the soup will curdle. Many people 
like the asparagus tips boiled in salted water, drained 
and added to the soup just at serving time. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

6 ears (or i can) corn 2 tablespoon fuls flour 

1 slice onion i quart milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Score each row of grains through the centre and with 
a dull knife press out the pulp. Put the milk in a 
double boiler; when hot, add the corn, onion and 
the butter and flour, rubbed together; stir until the 
milk begins to thicken ; cover and cook fifteen minutes. 
Add the salt and pepper, remove the onion, and serve 
with croutons. 

CREAM OF GREEN PEA SOUP 

I pint shelled green peas 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

I quart milk 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

I pint water i teaspoonful salt 

I slice onion i saltspoonful pepper 

Put the pods of the peas in the water and boil gently 
for fifteen minutes; strain, saving the water. To 
this add the peas and onion; cook fifteen minutes 
and press through a colander; add the milk to the 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

pulp; put the whole in a double boiler; add the 
butter and flour, rubbed together. Stir and cook 
until the soup is creamy (about ten minutes). Add 
the salt and pepper and press through a fine sieve. 
Reheat and serve with croutons. 



CREAM OF CANNED PEA SOUP 

I can peas 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

I quart milk 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

I slice onion i teaspoonful salt 

I bay leaf i saltspoonful pepper 

Put the milk in a double boiler. Press the peas 
through a sieve and add them to the milk. Add the 
onion and bay leaf, the salt and pepper; when hot, 
add the butter and flour, rubbed together. Simmer 
until smooth (for ten minutes), and strain into the 
soup-tureen. 

SOUP CRECY 

Save the water in which you have boiled cabbage, 
cauliflower, or brussels sprouts; put it aside to use 
for soup Crecy. To each quart allow two medium- 
sized carrots, one grated onion, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a half pint of 
milk, a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of 
pepper. Scrape and grate the carrots; cook for 
thirty minutes in the cabbage water; then add the 
onion, the salt and pepper, and the butter and flour, 
rubbed together. When this is perfectly smooth 
and boiling hot, add the milk and serve with good- 
sized squares of dry toast. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 27 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP 

4 medium-sized potatoes i tablespoonful flour 

I sliced onion i tablespoonful butter 

The green portion of a i quart milk 

head of celery or a salt- i bay leaf 

spoonful of mashed eel- i teaspoonful salt 

ery seed i saltspoonful pepper 

Pare the potatoes and drop into boiling water ; boil 
rapidly five minutes; drain, throw the water away. 
Return the potatoes to the kettle ; cover with a pint 
of water, add the onion, the bay leaf, celery and 
pepper. Cover the kettle and cook until the pota- 
toes are tender. Press the whole through a 
colander. Put the milk in a double boiler ; add the 
butter and flour, rubbed together. Add the potato 
and salt; cook until simmering hot and not a mo- 
ment longer; strain the whole through a fine sieve. 
This soup may be kept warm in a double boiler for 
about ten minutes; it cannot be reheated after it is 
once cold. 

PALESTINE SOUP 

I pound Jerusalem arti- i quart milk 

chokes (about lo good- i slice onion 

sized artichokes) i bay leaf 

I blade mace i teaspoonful salt 

I tablespoonful butter i saltspoonful pepper 

Slice the artichokes; drop at once into cold water; 
drain, put in a soup-kettle, cover with boiling water 
and cook until tender (about thirty minutes) ; drain 
again; press through a colander. Put the milk in 
a double boiler; add the artichoke pulp, the onion, 
bay leaf, mace and pepper ; cover and cook for ten 
minutes. Add the butter and salt and serve at once. 



Digitized by 



Google 



28 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

The flour has been purposely left out of this soup, 
which will make it admissible in cases of diabetes. For 
people perfectly well, a thickening may be added, and 
the soup may be served with croutons. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

I quart milk yi teaspoonful baking soda 
I pint strained tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

I bay leaf 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

I blade mace i teaspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful sugar i saltspoonful pepper 

Put the tomatoes in a saucepan; add bay leaf, salt, 
pepper and mace ; simmer gently ten minutes. Put 
the milk in a double boiler ; add the butter and flour, 
rubbed together; stir constantly until smooth and 
creamy. Strain the tomatoes into the tureen ; add the 
sugar and soda and pour in quickly the hot thick- 
ened milk. Serve immediately. This soup cannot 
be kept long and cannot be reheated. 

EMERALD SOUP 

2 quarts spinach 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
I quart milk 2 tablespoonfuls flour 
I tablespoonful grated onion i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Cut the leaves from the spinach; wash thoroughly 
through several cold waters, each time lifting them 
up with the hand and throwing them in another pan 
of cold water. Put a good-sized kettle on the fire ; 
when hot, throw in the spinach; cover and push it 
at once over a slow fire. Let it stand for fifteen min- 
utes until the spinach is thoroughly wilted. Drain, 
saving the water that has exuded from the spinach. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 29 

Chop the spinach very fine, then press it through a 
sieve. Put the milk in a double boiler ; add the butter 
and flour, rubbed together ; stir until you have a per- 
fectly smooth creamy mixture; then add the spinach 
pulp and water, salt, pepper and onion. When very 
hot, serve. Lettuce or endive may be substituted for 
spinach, using two large heads. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

2 heads celery i slice onion 

1 pint water i quart milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i bay leaf 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Remove the outside stalks or the green portion of 
the celery, saving the tender portion for eating raw. 
Wash and chop the green stalks; put them in the 
kettle; add the water; cook slowly thirty minutes and 
press through a colander. Put the milk in a double 
boiler; add the butter and flour, rubbed together; 
add the onion and bay leaf; stir constantly until 
creamy. Add the celery pulp, salt and pepper; 
cover, and let the water in the under boiler boil for 
ten minutes. Strain into the tureen and serve at once. 

FARMERS' SOUP 

2 quarts unshelled peas Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 quart milk I slice onion 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I tablespoonful flour i saltspoonful pepper 

Shell the peas ; put the pods, with a quart of water, 
into a saucepan; boil twenty minutes; strain, sav- 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

ing the water. Put the peas in this water and cook 
until tender (about thirty minutes). Press through 
a sieve ; add the milk and onion, and bring to boil- 
ing-point. Rub the butter and flour together ; add 
a little of the soup to the butter and flour until you 
have a smooth paste, then scrape it into the hot 
milk; cook until smooth and creamy; add the salt 
and pepper. Beat the yolks of the eggs; add a 
little of the hot soup and beat again; remove 
soup from the fire, take out the onion, and add the 
yolks quickly to the hot soup. Turn at once into 
the tureen. This soup is usually served with boiled 
rice. Put a tablespoonful of boiled rice in each 
soup-plate before ladling over the soup. It has meat 
value, and, with bread and butter, forms an exceed- 
ingly nice lunch. 

CARDINAL SOUP 

4 red beets 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

I tablespoonful cornstarch i quart milk 
I slice onion i pinf water 

I bay leaf i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Scrape the beets and grate them into the water; 
cover and cook slowly twenty minutes. Put the 
milk in a double boiler ; add the onion and bay leaf. 
Moisten the cornstarch in a little cold milk; add it 
to the milk in the double boiler; cook at least ten 
minutes. Then add the beet pulp, salt and pepper ; 
remove the onion and the bay leaf; add the butter. 
As soon as the butter is melted, strain the soup into 
the tureen. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 31 

MOCK OYSTER SOUP 

I bunch (i2 roots) salsify i bay leaf 
I pint milk i tablespoonfu! butter 

I quart water i tablespoonful flour 

I slice onion i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Scrape the salsify ; throw it at once into cold water 

to prevent discoloration ; cut it into slices about half 

an inch thick; throw these into a kettle, with the 

water, onion and bay leaf ; cook slowly half an hour. 

Put the milk in a double boiler ; add the butter and 

flour, rubbed together; stir until the milk is thick 

and smooth. Then add it to the salsify and water 

in the saucepan ; add the seasonings, and serve with 

oyster crackers. 

SOUP SOUBISE 

I large Spanish onion, 3 i pint water 

Bermuda, or 3 white or 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
brown-skinned onions 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

I quart milk i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Peel the onions; cut them into slices and put in a 

saucepan with the salt and water; cook half an hour, 

until tender, and press through a sieve; add the milk, 

then the butter and flour, rubbed together, taking up 

a little of the soup and mixing it until smooth; add 

the pepper. Press the whole through a sieve, reheat 

and serve. 

CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP 

% pound mushrooms {Ag- 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

aricus campestris) i quart milk 

I tablespoonful cornstarch i teaspoonful salt 
I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the mushrooms but do not peel them; cut 

into thin slices, using all the good portion of the 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

stem; put them, with the butter and salt, into a 

saucepan; cover closely and cook slowly twenty 

minutes. Add the milk and pepper. Moisten the 

cornstarch with a little cold milk; stir it into the 

hot mixture and cook slowly until the soup is the 

consistency of thick cream. Serve at once, ladling 

it over squares of toast, or pass with it whole wheat 

bread. 

CREAM OF CHEESE SOUP 

% pound soft American Yolks of 2 eggs 

cheese i tablespoonful butter 

I teaspoon ful onion juice i tablespoonful flour 

I quart milk ^ teaspoonful salt 

A dash of cayenne 

Put the milk in a double boiler; add the cheese, 
grated, the salt, cayenne and onion juice. Rub the 
butter and flour together ; add it to the cheese mix- 
ture ; stir and cook until you have a smooth, rather 
thick soup. Beat the yolks of the eggs; add to 
them two or three tablespoonfuls of the soup and 
pour into the tureen. Put also into the tureen 
about two dozen inch cubes of toasted bread. Pour 
over the soup, and send to the table. This soup is 
highly nutritious, having more than meat value. It 
is an exceedingly nice luncheon dish for children, 
and with white bread and butter forms an excellent 
meal. 

SOUP a la RORER 

I pound shelled chestnuts i tablespoonful flour 

I head celery ^ pint cream 

I small onion i pint milk 

I bay leaf i teaspoonful paprika 

Blanch the chestnuts and remove the brown skin. 

Cover them with a quart of boiling water ; add the 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 33 

onion, the celery chopped fine, and the bay leaf; 
cover and cook gently thirty minutes. Press the 
whole of this through a colander. You can get all 
the chestnut pulp and a large portion of the celery 
through the colander. Return to the kettle; add 
the flour, moistened in the cold milk. Bring this slowly 
to boiling-point; add the paprika and cream; reheat, 
but do not boil ; strain through a sieve, and serve with 
nicely toasted croutons. 

CREAM OF PEANUT SOUP 

Yi pint peanut butter i saltspoonful celery seed 

I quart milk or a little chopped 

I teaspoonful onion juice green celery 

I tablespoonful cornstarch i bay leaf 

I saltspoonful pepper ^ teaspoonful salt 

Put the milk, celery seed, peanut butter, onion and 

pepper in a double boiler; stir and cook until hot. 

Moisten the cornstarch in a little cold milk and add 

it to the hot milk; stir until smooth and thick; 

strain through a fine sieve. Add the salt and serve 

at once with croutons. This soup has, of course, meat 

value. 

CREAM OF OATMEAL SOUP 

I pint cold oatmeal i bay leaf 

I tablespoonful butter Yolk of i t%^ 

I tablespoonful chopped i quart milk 

onion i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Put the butter and the onion in a soup kettle. Push 

the kettle to one side of the fire and let the onion cook 

without browning, until soft ; then add the oatmeal, 

milk, bay leaf, salt and pepper; stir carefully until 

the ingredients reach the boiling-point. Strain 

through a fine sieve, reheat, and pour while hot into 

s 



Digitized by 



Google 



34 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

the tureen over the beaten yolk of the egg. Corn- 
meal mush or any cold cooked breakfast cereal may 
be substituted for the oatmeal. 

SOUP k la MOUSQUETAIRE 

I pint green peas, or 6 tablespoonfuls thick 

1 can peas ^ cream 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil Yolks of 2 eggs 
I handful sorrel i teaspoonful salt 

I quart water i saltspoonful pepper 

Put the peas, the water and the sorrel in a soup- 
kettle; cover and simmer gently one hour; press 
through a sieve ; reheat, then add the salt, pepper and 
cream. Beat the eggs ; add a little of the soup. Take 
the kettle from the fire and turn the eggs into the 
soup; stir, and serve with large squares of toasted 
bread. 

CHOWDERS 

These thick soups are nice for luncheon or supper, 
or for a dinner where light vegetables follow. They 
have meat value. Pass ship-biscuit or unleavened 
bread, and olives, celery or radishes when serving 
chowder. 

CORN CHOWDER 

1 quart grated com 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
4 good-sized potatoes i pint milk 

2 medium-sized onions 6 water-crackers, or 
2 tablespoonfuls butter 3 ship-biscuits 

}/2 pint boiling water Yolks of 3 eggs 

I teaspoonful salt 

Pare and cut the potatoes into dice ; chop the onion ; 

put a layer of potato in the kettle, then a sprinkling 

of onion, then a layer of corn, then potato, and so 

continue until all are in. Add the water; cover the 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 35 

kettle and place over a slow fire where the contents 
will simmer twenty minutes. Rub butter and flour 
together; add milk and salt; stir until boiling. 
When hot, take from the fire and add the tgg yolks 
beaten with two tablespoonfuls of milk. Turn all 
into the tureen ; crush the crackers and sprinkle over 
the top. Serve at once. 

MOCK CLAM CHOWDER 

I bundle salsify (12 roots) Yolks of 2 eggs 

I pint milk H cupful lentils 

I onion i teaspoonful celery salt 

4 medium potatoes 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

I quart boiling water 

Wash and soak the lentils over night; drain and 

scald. Scrape the salsify and put it at once in cold 

water to prevent discoloration; pare and cut the 

potato into dice; chop the onion; slice the salsify 

crosswise ; put it in the kettle with the onion, lentils 

and water; cover and cook for half an hour. Add 

the potatoes and cook twenty minutes longer. Beat 

the egg yolks with two tablespoonfuls of milk; add 

the remaining milk to the chowder ; when hot add the 

butter and celery salt; take from the fire and add the 

yolks. In stirring be careful not to break the lentils 

or potatoes. 

POTATO CHOWDER 

6 medium-sized potatoes i tablespoonful chopped 
I large onion parsley 

J^ pint chopped celery 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

I pint water i tablespoonful flour 

I teaspoonful salt i quart milk 

Pare and cut the potatoes into dice ; chop the onion ; 

put the butter in a shallow frying-pan; when hot 



Digitized by 



Google 



36 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

add the onion; shake until it is slightly browned. 
Put a layer of potatoes in the bottom of the kettle, 
then a layer of celery, a little parsley, salt and onion, 
and so continue until all the materials are used. 
Add the water ; cover the kettle and simmer twenty 
minutes. Do not stir. Add the milk, and when hot 
add the flour,, moistened with a little cold milk, and 
the salt. Stir carefully until it reaches the boiling- 
point, and serve at once. 

To give this dish meat value add the yolks of 
two eggs or a quarter of a pound of grated cheese 
just before taking from the fire. 

TOMATO CHOWDER 

6 large ripe tomatoes, or i large onion 

I can tomatoes 4 hard-boiled eggs 

I pint, or I can corn 4 slices whole wheat bread 

Yi pint chopped celery 3 tablespoon fuls flour 

3 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful black pepper 

Peel the tomatoes ; cut them in halves and press out 
the seeds; cut each half into quarters; put these 
with the corn, celery and onion, chopped, in the 
kettle; cover and simmer half an hour; cut the 
bread into dice and toast in the oven until crisp. 
Rub the butter and flour together; add a little of 
the hot chowder; stir and add this to the ingredi- 
ents in the kettle; stir until smooth and boiling. 
Add salt and pepper. Slice the eggs and put them 
in the tureen; pour in the chowder and put the 
toast over the top. Serve at once. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 37 

BRUNSWICK STEW 

^ pint green lima beans 2 good-sized onions 

5^ pint peas 4 tablespoonfuls rice 

6 ears corn 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

4 whole tomatoes i teaspoon ful salt 

6 pods okra i saltspoonful pepper 

Put half the butter in a saucepan; add the onion, 
chopped ; shake until the onion is soft, not brown. 
Peel the tomatoes, cut them into halves, squeeze 
out the seeds, then cut each half into quarters ; add 
to the' butter and onion. Boil the beans and peas ; 
add to the tomato and onion. Cut the okra into 
slices, add it to the tomato; cover, cook on the back 
part of the stove for thirty minutes. Then add the 
beans and peas that have been boiled and drained 
and the rice, washed. Score and press out the corn, 
add it, and if the stew is now thick, add a half pint 
of milk. Cover and cook until the corn is done 
(about twenty minutes), being very careful not to 
scorch. Add the remaining butter, salt and pepper. 
This is also very nice made with cocoanut milk or 
with vegetable stock. 



Digitized by 



Google 



A DIVISION OF OUR COMMON 
VEGETABLES 

Vegetables that do not contain an appreciable amoant of 
Starch or Sugar 

Lettuce Cress 

Chicory Celery, young and tender 

String beans, veiy young Turnips 

Carrots Radishes 

Globe artichokes Jerusalem artichokes, young 

Brussel sprouts Cabbage 

Cauliflower Kale 

Collards Kohl-rabi 

Dandelions Sour dock 

Eggplant Onions 

Leeks Peppers 

Rutabaga Spinach 

Savoy cabbage Summer squash 

Asparagus Turnips 

Poke shoots 

Vegetables containing Starch 

Potatoes Rice 

Sweet potatoes Yams 

Winter squash Chestnuts 

Hominy grits Samp 

All the cereals Bread 

Sago Arrowroot 
Macaroni and spaghetti 

Leguminous seeds-— dried beans, peas, lentils, peanuts 

The Sugar Group 
New peas Sweet potatoes 

New com Beets 

Tomatoes and very young carrots are said to contain 
a small quantity of sugar 

Nitrogenous Vegetables and Meat Substitutes 

The cereals Dried beans 

Dried peas Lentils 

Peanuts Chick peas 

Pecans, English walnuts, hickorynuts, piflons 
eggs and milk 

The Fatty Group 

Olives and all the nuts, except chestnuts, are rich in 

fatty matter 

88 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 

RISOTTO 

J4 pint rice J4 pint solid tomatoes, or 
% pound grated cheese 2 whole tomatoes 

I Spanish swee pepper i tablespoonful butter 

I small onion i teaspoonful salt 

Wash the rice, throw it into boiling water and boil 
rapidly for fifteen minutes. While this is boiling, 
put the butter, the chopped onion, and the pepper 
cut into strips, into a saucepan. Shake over the fire 
for just a moment until thoroughly heated; add the 
tomatoes. If you use fresh tomatoes, peel them, cut 
into halves, squeeze out the seeds, and cut the flesh 
into small pieces. Drain the rice. Put a layer of 
rice in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a sprink- 
ling of cheese, a layer of the sauce, another layer of 
rice, then the remainder of the sauce, then the last 
layer of rice. Cover this thickly with cheese. 
Cover the baking-dish, stand in a hot oven for 
twenty minutes, until the cheese is thoroughly 
melted. Serve in the dish in which it is baked. 
With a salad and a fruit dessert this makes a complete 
meal. 

ESCALLOPED RICE 

}/2 pint rice 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

y2 pound cheese 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

5^ pint milk H teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the rice through several cold waters, boil it 
in plenty of water for twenty minutes and drain. 
Rub together the butter and flour, add the milk, 
stir until boiling, then add the salt and pepper. 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

Grate or chop the cheese, stir it into the sauce. Put 
a layer of rice in the bottom of a baking-dish, then 
a layer of sauce, then another layer of rice, and so 
continue until you have used all ingredients. Dust 
the top thickly with bread-crumbs and bake in a 
quick oven twenty minutes. Serve in the dish in 
which it is baked. 

FARMERS' RICE 

}4 pint rice H pint milk 

6 hard-boiled eggs 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the rice, boil and drain it. Put the eggs in a 
kettle of cold water over the fire; bring slowly to 
a boil, and keep just below the boiling-point for 
twenty minutes ; drop them into cold water ; remove 
the shells and cut into slices, crossways. Rub the 
butter and flour together ; add the milk ; when boil- 
ing add the salt and pepper. Put a layer of rice in 
the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of the 
slices of hard-boiled eggs; cover with a layer of 
sauce. A little chopped parsley or finely chopped 
celery is a pleasant addition. Continue these layers 
until all the ingredients are used, having the last 
layer of sauce. Dust with bread-crumbs and bake 
twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

BAKED RICE 

}i pint rice H pint milk 

yi pound cheese H teaspoonful salt 

A dash of cayenne 

Wash the rice, boil it rapidly twenty minutes and 

drain. Chop the cheese. Put a layer of rice in the 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 41 

bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of cheese with 
a dusting of salt and cayenne; then another layer of 
rice and cheese until you have the ingredients used. 
Pour in the milk, cover the pan, and bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes. 

RICE k la ITALIENNE 

Follow the recipe for baked rice, using a pint of 
strained tomatoes in place of the half pint of milk. 

RICE k I'ANGLAISE 

J4 pint rice i pint strained tomatoes 

H pint pecan meats i teaspoon ful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the rice, boil and drain. Chop the nut meats 
rather fine ; do not grind them. Add salt and pepper 
to the tomatoes. Put a layer of rice in the bottom 
of a baking-dish, a layer of the nuts, then a layer 
of the rice, then nuts, and so continue until you 
have the dish full, having the last layer of rice. Pour 
over the tomatoes and bake in a moderate oven 
thirty minutes. 

PEANUT BUTTER 

Roast the peanuts to a nice brown, or buy them 
already roasted. Remove the shells and the skin 
or bran. Be careful that the nuts are in good con- 
dition and have a fine flavor or they will grow 
rancid quickly. Put a few at a time in the mill, 
tighten the screw and grind rapidly. Add, from 
time to time, a little salt, if you like. Pack the 
butter in tumblers and stand at once in a cool place. 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

To Make Peanut Meal— Put raw peanuts, after 
they have been shelled and the skins taken off, 
through the meat-grinder or through a nut-mill, 
loosely geared. 

All nut butters and nut meals are made after 
these two recipes. 

PECAN SAUSAGES 

I pint pecan meats i cup cooked farina or 

I egg cream of wheat 

H teaspoonful salt A dash pepper 

I tablespoonful sage 

Put the nuts through a meat-chopper, add the 
farina, all the seasoning, and at the last the egg, 
beaten. Make into round cakes, place these on 
paper in the bottom of a baking-dish. Bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. Serve on a hot plate with 
either white or tomato sauce. 

This recipe will answer for all kinds of nut 
sausages. 

PINE NUT STEAKS 

J^ pint stale bread-crumbs, 2 eggs 

sifted I teaspoonful sage 

J4 pint pine nuts i saltspoonful celery seed 

I saltspoonful salt 

Put the nuts through the meat-grinder, mix them 
with the bread-crumbs, then add the seasoning and 
the eggs, beaten. Make into small cakes and bake 
on oiled paper, twenty minutes. Serve with brown 
sauce made from vegetable stock, or with white 
or tomato sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 43 

NUT CANNELON 

H pint pecans or English i teaspoonful salt 

walnuts I saltspoonful pepper 

54 pint hominy grits 4 tablespoonfuls bread- 

I pint milk crumbs 

I hard-boiled egg 

Cover the hominy with the milk and soak twenty 
minutes ; cook in a double boiler for one hour. Take 
from the fire, add the chopped nuts, egg, bread- 
crumbs and all the seasoning. This mixture should 
be sufficiently dry to form nicely into a roll six 
inches long and about four inches in diameter. Roll 
in oiled paper and bake in a moderate oven half an 
hour, basting once or twice with a little butter. 
Serve with English drawn butter or white sauce. 

BANANA CANNELON 

6 ripe bananas J^ pint water 

54 pint peanuts or English 4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 
walnuts I teaspoonful salt 

Put the nuts through the meat-grinder; mash the 

bananas ; add the nuts, the water in which you have 

moistened the cornstarch, and the seasoning. Pour 

this mixture into pound baking-powder cans ; stand 

in boiling water ; boil continuously for three hours. 

When done, let them stand for about ten minutes, 

turn them out and serve with white sauce or English 

drawn butter. 

MOCK VEAL ROAST 

J^ pint shelled roasted pea- J^ pint toasted bread- 
nuts crumbs 
H pint lentils i teaspoonful salt 
I saltspoonful pepper 

Soak the lentils over night, drain, bring them to a 

boil ; throw the water away ; cover with fresh water 



Digitized by 



Google 



44 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

and boil until tender; drain again; press them 
through a colander. Add nuts, chopped or ground, the 
bread-crumbs and the seasoning, with sufficient milk 
to make it the consistency of mush. Pour into a 
baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 
Beans or peas may be substituted for lentils. 



MOCK MEAT HASH 

Chop left-over mock roast and mix it with an equal 
quantity of cold boiled potatoes, also chopped. Bake 
in a greased pie-dish and serve hot. 



MOCK TENDERLOIN STEAK 

The better way to do is to make a quantity of this, 
put it into cans and cook it, then cut it off and 
broil or heat when needed. The following ingre- 
dients will be sufficient for several meals: 

I quart nut meats (English i quart bread-crumbs 

walnuts, peanuts, pine i pint water 

nuts and almonds in i tablespoonful salt 

equal quantities) 2 saltspoonfuls pepper 

Put the nuts through the meat-chopper, mix 
them with the crumbs, add the seasoning and the 
water, pack into tin cans, and steam or boil three 
hours. Stand in a cold place with the lids off, until 
perfectly cold, then cover and keep them in the 
refrigerator. When ready to use, turn them out, 
cut in slices, and heat in the oven or broil quickly, 
Serve plain or with tomato sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 45 

MOCK TURKEY 

I pint bread-crumbs 3 raw eggs 

I pint mixed nuts i tablespoonful grated onion 

I pint boiled rice i tablespoonful salt 

6 hard-boiled eggs i saltspoonful pepper 

Put the bread-crumbs in a saucepan with a pint of 
water; cook for a few minutes; add the hard- 
boiled eggs, chopped; take saucepan from the fire 
and add the nuts (a mixture of peanuts and pine 
nuts is best), and the rice. When this is well mixed, 
add the raw eggs, slightly beaten. Form this into 
the shape of a turkey, reserving a portion for the 
legs and the wings. Take a tablespoonful of the 
mixture in your hand and press it into the shape of 
a leg; put a piece of dry macaroni into it for the 
bone and fasten it to the turkey. Do the other side 
the same. Form the remaining portion into small 
pieces looking like wings tucked under ; press them 
to the side of the turkey. Brush the turkey with 
butter and bake for one hour. Serve with cranberry 
sauce. 

MOCK GOOSE 

Make precisely the same as mock turkey, using 
black walnuts in the place of the other nuts. Serve 
with gooseberry jam. 

MOCK DUCK 

Make same as mock goose, adding to the mixture a 
half pint of finely chopped celery. Serve with 
apple sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



46 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

MOCK FISH 

I pint cooked hominy grits i teaspoonful grated onion 

y^ pint mixed nuts i teaspoonful chopped pars- 

1 tablespoonful butter ley 

2 hard-boiled eggs i teaspoonful salt 

I raw ^%% I saltspoonful pepper 

Put the nuts through a meat-grinder and add to the 
grits. Add seasoning and the hard-boiled ^%% yolks, 
chopped. Oil a piece of paper the shape of a fish; 
form the "fish" on it; brush it with the beaten yolk 
of the raw ^%%\ dust it with a little celery salt. 
Take the whites of two hard-boiled eggs and form 
the gills and the mouth; use two good-sized fil- 
berts for the eyes; if you are without filberts, use 
peanuts. Cut blanched almonds into quarters length- 
wise and arrange them on the back in imitation of 
fins. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 
When done, put in a piece of quilled paper for a 
tail. Garnish with parsley and lemon and send to 
the table. In lifting the fish from the pan to the 
platter, use a slice ; of course do not remove it from 
the paper. Serve with sauce HoUandaise. 

PLANKED MOCK FISH 

Make the fish according to the preceding recipe, 
putting it on a paper cut the shape of a fish on a 
plank. Border the plank nicely with well beaten 
mashed potatoes. Brush the whole with melted 
butter and brown quickly in the oven. Garnish the 
board between the fish and the potato border with 
either small stuffed tomatoes or small boiled cucum- 
bers. Pass tomato, white or sauce HoIIandaise. 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 47 

MOCK HAM 

I quart kidney beans ^ pint almonds 
^ pint English walnuts i can pimientos 

J^ pint black walnuts i tablespoonful salt 

H pint pecans i saltspoonful black pepper 

Soak the beans over night; next morning drain, 
cover with fresh boiling water, boil twenty minutes ; 
drain, throw the water away, cover again with fresh 
water, and boil until tender; press through a 
colander. Chop the nuts and pimientos. Add them, 
with all the other ingredients, to the beans. Form 
into a small ham and place on a greased paper; 
brush with melted butter; bake in a moderate oven 
one hour. When done, take out the ham, brush it 
again with butter, dust it thickly with bread- 
crumbs and brown. Serve this cold, cut into thin 
slices, 

NUT CHEESE 

Mix sufficient nuts of various kinds to make one 
quart. 

1 pint bread-crumbs i teaspoonful salt 

2 raw eggs i saltspoonful pepper 

Chop the nuts, mix them with the bread-crumbs, 
add the eggs, beaten, and the seasoning. Put this 
mixture into small baking-powder cans and steam 
for two hours. When cold, stand in the refrigerator 
until wanted. Serve cold cut into thin slices. 

This is very nice for sandwiches, or may be 
served with tomato salad for supper or luncheon. 



Digitized by 



Google 



48 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

NUT CROQUETTES 

J4 pint pecans or English i teaspoonful onion juice 

walnuts I tablespoonful chopped 

I pint mashed potato parsley 

Yolks of 2 eggs I saltspoonful pepper 

I teaspoonful salt % nutmeg, grated 

Chop the nuts, add them to the potato with the 
yolks of the eggs and all the seasoning. Form into 
cylinders. Beat the whites of the eggs with two 
tablespoonf uls of water until well mixed, not light ; 
roll the croquettes in this, then in bread-crumbs and 
fry in hot fat. Serve with nicely seasoned peas. 

VEGETABLE MEAT PIE 

^ pint small lima beans 2 hard-boiled eggs 

y2 cup peanuts i tablespoonful chopped 
y2 cup almonds, or parsley 

% cup pine nuts i teaspoonful salt 

J^ pint white sauce i tablespoonful chopped 
6 potatoes onion 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Soak the beans over night. Next morning cover 
them with boiling water and boil rapidly half an 
hour; drain; slip the beans from their skins, cover 
with fresh water and cook until tender. When they 
are done, split them into halves without breaking the 
halves. Scald and blanch the almonds and shell the 
peanuts. Boil the potatoes. When they are done, 
take out three potatoes and cut them into blocks; 
mash the remaining three, add four tablespoonfuls of 
hot milk, a little salt and pepper, and a half cup of 
sifted flour. Put a layer of beans in the bottom of a 
baking-dish, then a sprinkling of the nuts, mixed, 
a little chopped hard-boiled egg, a dusting of the 
seasoning, then the potato blocks, then another layer 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 49 

of beans, and so continue until you have the ingre- 
dients all used. Take the mashed potato in your 
hand and pat it or roll it out on a board the size of 
the baking-dish. Pour in the baking-dish the white 
sauce, put the potato crust on top, brush with milk, 
and bake half an hour in a moderately quick oven. 

VEGETABLE CHICKEN PIE 

I pint mixed pecans and 2 tablespoonfuls flour 
filberts I pint water or milk 

}^ pint pine nuts 10 small onions 

4 good-sized potatoes H can corn 

1 can mushrooms i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i saltspoonful pepper 

Chop the filberts or pecans, but keep the pine nuts 
whole; mix them, add the mushrooms, the onions, 
boiled and perfectly whole. Rub the butter and flour 
together; add water or milk. Pare the potatoes, cut 
them into dice, boil them ten minutes ; drain ; add 
them and all the ingredients to the sauce. Turn the 
mixture into a baking-dish; cover it with potato 
crust and bake in a moderately quick oven half an 
hour. 

CHISULA 
Grind a quart of roasted shelled peanuts either in 
a nut-grinder or put them through a meat-chopper ; 
add a dusting of salt; split small bananas down one 
side; open the skin and take out the banana with- 
out breaking the skin. The bananas may be sliced 
and put aside to serve as dessert, or they may bq 
baked and served hot. Pack the ground peanuts 
into the banana skins, pressing tightly with the 
hand. Open the skin and take out down the centre 
two or three teaspoonfuls ; close the skin and stand 
4 



Digitized by 



by Google 



50 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

these in a baking-pan and bake in a quick oven twenty 
minutes. While they are baking, make a plain tomato 
sauce, seasoning it nicely with a little onion, and cook 
slowly until quite thick. When the bananas are done, 
open the shells and put in each about two tablespoon- 
f uls of tomato sauce ; dish on a platter and send to the 
table. Serve with this a dish of carefully boiled rice, 
plain, or with curry sauce. 

JAMBOLAYA 

54 pint kidney beans 3 chili peppers 

Yi pint grated cocoanut 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

J4 pint pecan meats i pint tomatoes 

^2, pound rice 5^ teaspoonful curry powder 

I teaspoonful salt 

Wash and boil the beans as directed in preceding 

recipes. Put the butter in a saucepan, add the 

chili peppers and pecan meats, chopped, curry powder, 

salt, tomatoes and cocoanut; stir until it reaches the 

boiling-point, then add the beans. Let this simmer 

over hot water for twenty minutes while you boil 

the rice. Serve the rice at the ends of a large 

platter, the jambolaya in the centre. 

POTATO ROLL 

Boil sufficient potatoes to make one quart of mashed 
potatoes. Add to them a half pint of chopped pecan 
meats, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of 
pepper, a half pint of finely chopped celery, or a 
saltspoonful of celery seed. Mix together and form 
in a roll six inches long. Lay this on a piece of 
oiled paper, baste with melted butter, and bake in 
a quick oven until brown (twenty minutes). Serve 
with white sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 51 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS 

3 good- sized cucumbers i tablespoon ful butter 

H cup bread-crumbs i tablespoonful chopped 

Yz cup chopped nuts onion 

I t^% I teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Pare the cucumbers, cut into halves and scoop out 
the seeds. Chop the nuts and add them to the 
bread-crumbs; add the onion, ^^'g^ the seasoning, 
and the butter, melted. Fill each half of the cucum- 
ber; put the two pieces together, tying them with 
twine. Brown them over a hot fire in about two 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, or some other fat. Turn 
them until brown, then add a little water to the pan 
and bake until the cucumbers are tender, basting 
two or three times. If the water in the pan evapo- 
rates, add more. When done, dish on a hot platter, 
remove the strings. Serve plain, or with brown or 
tomato sauce. 

TURKISH CABBAGE 

I soft head cabbai^e 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

H pint chopped nuts Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 onion 3 lemons 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Savoy cabbage may be used in place of ordinary cab- 
bage. Drop the whole head of cabbage into boiling 
water; cover, and stand it on the back part of the 
stove until the cabbage is wilted; drain; carefully 
remove the leaves and cut out the mid-ribs. Put the 
nuts in a bowl, add the onion, chopped very fine, the 
salt and pepper. Put a cabbage leaf on the table 
board; put a tablespoonful of the mixture in the 



Digitized by 



Google 



52 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

centre; fold in the sides of the leaf and roll it 
up. Fasten it with a wooden toothpick or twine. 
Lay it down in a saucepan. Make another roll, 
and so continue until you have the desired quan- 
tity, placing the rolls close together in the saucepan. 
Squeeze the juice of the lemons over the top. 
Add sufficient boiling water to cover the rolls. 
Stand the saucepan over a moderate fire; cook 
slowly for twenty minutes. Drain carefully, hold- 
ing the rolls down with a limber knife, pressing 
them lightly until all the water is drained off. Save 
the water. Rub the butter and flour together; add 
the water, which should not measure over one pint ; 
stir this over the fire until boiling, and let it boil 
five minutes. In the meantime, remove the strings 
or toothpicks from the rolls and dish them neatly 
on a platter. Take the sauce from the fire, add the 
yolks of the eggs, slightly beaten ; cook a moment, 
and strain it over the rolls. Garnish the ends of the 
dish with carefully boiled rice and send at once to 
the table. 

STUFFED CABBAGE 

I loose head cabbage i tablespoon ful chopped 
H pint boiled rice parsley 

Yi pint chopped nuts i teaspoonful salt 

3 hard-boiled eggs i saltspoonful pepper 

Select a very soft and loose head of ordinary cab- 
bage or a head of Savoyw Soak the head in cold 
water for an hour ; then put it in a kettle of boiling 
water ; let it stand on the back part of the stove for 
fifteen minutes. Drain, and open the head care- 
fully to the very centre, without breaking the 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 63 

leaves. Mix the nuts with the boiled rice ; add the 
parsley, salt and pepper, and the eggs, hard-boiled 
and chopped. Put a teaspoonful of this in the 
centre of the head and fold over the leaves; on 
these leaves put a thin layer of the mixture, and 
fold over the next set of leaves, and so continue 
until you have a thin layer of the filling between 
each set of leaves. Tie the head carefully in a piece 
of cheesecloth, put it into a kettle of boiling salted 
water, boil uncovered for one hour ; drain ; dish on 
a round dish and pour over it either a well-made 
sauce Hollandaise or a white sauce. 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER 

I head cauliflower i pint stale bread-crumbs 

I tablespoonful butter ^ pint milk 

Yolks of 4 eggs J4 nutmeg, grated 

I tablespoonful grated onion i pint grated cheese 
I tablespoonful flour ^ teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Boil the cauliflower and break it apart carefully 
into flowerets. Put a layer of these in the bottom 
of a baking-dish, then a layer of crumbs, a dusting 
of salt, pepper, nutmeg and onion; then another 
layer of cauliflower, crumbs, half the cheese, and 
another sprinkling of seasoning; on this, another 
layer of cauliflower, seasoning, breadcrumbs and 
cheese. Rub the butter and flour together; add 
the milk and stir until boiling. Add the yolks of 
the eggs, and pour it over the ingredients in the 
baking-dish. Dust the top with crumbs and bake 
in a quick oven ten or fifteen minutes. Be very 
careful not to overcook or it will curdle. 



Digitized by 



Google 



54 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

STUFFED ONIONS 

2 large Spanish onions, or 5^ pint chopped almonds 
6 good-sized Bermuda and pecans, mixed 

onions, or 6 ordinary i teaspoonful salt 

white-skinned onions i saltspoonful pepper 

H pint boiled rice i raw egg 

Put the onions, without peeling, into a saucepan of 

boiling water; add half the salt and boil for half an 

hour. Drain and dry. Remove the outside skin, and, 

with the handle of a teaspoon, take out the centre, 

saving it for the sauce. Mix the nuts, rice, seasoning 

and egg; fill this into the onions; stand them in a 

baking-pan, brush with melted butter and bake in a 

moderate oven for half an hour. Chop very fine the 

portion that you have taken from the centre, press it 

through a sieve ; add this pulp to a half pint of hot 

white sauce and pour it into a sauceboat. Serve the 

onions on a platter; pass the sauce. Bread-crumbs 

may be substituted for rice and a tablespoonful of 

parsley added. 

BAKED BEANS 

1 quart white soup beans H pint finely chopped nuts, 

2 tablespoonfuls molasses pecans, English or 
I tablespoonful salt black walnuts 

^2 pint boiling water 

Wash the beans and soak them over night. Next 
morning, drain, cover with fresh water, bring slowly 
to the boiling-point, and simmer until the skins 
will crack. The better way to test is to take out a 
bean and blow on it; if sufficiently done the skin 
will quickly crack. Drain the beans, and throw this 
water away. Put the beans in a bean-pot, alter- 
nating the layers with the chopped nuts; add the 
molasses and the salt to the boiling water; pour 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 55 

this over the beans, cover the pot and bake in a 
slow oven six hours; remove the cover for the last 
hour of the baking. As the water evaporates, add 
a little fresh water from time to time. 

BAKED BEANS WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Follow the preceding recipe, substituting a pint of 
strained tomatoes for the water. 

BEAN LOAF WITH RICE 

I pint beans 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Yi pint rice 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Yi pint milk i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Soak the beans over night; next morning, wash, 
cover with fresh boiling water, boil for thirty min- 
utes, drain and throw the water away ; cover again 
with fresh water and simmer about an hour until 
tender. While the beans are cooking, wash and 
boil the rice ; it must be dry, not sticky. When the 
beans are done, press them through a colander. 
Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, 
stir until boiling; add this and the salt and pepper 
to the bean pulp, stir until soft, then add the rice. 
Turn this into a baking-dish and bake in a quick 
oven forty minutes, until brown. This, with a salad, 
makes an excellent meal. 

BEAN CROQUETTES 

I pint white beans i tablespoonful chopped 
Yi cup cream parsley 

Yolks of 2 eggs I teaspoonful onion juice 

I tablespoonful butter i teaspoonful salt 

I tablespoonful flour i saltspoonful pepper 

Soak the beans over night, drain, cover them with 



Digitized by 



Google 



66 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

fresh water, boil an hour, drain, throw the water 
away, cover with fresh water and boil until tender; 
drain and press the beans through a colander. Rub 
the butter and flour together, add the cream, stir 
until almost boiling, then add the yolks of the eggs. 
Stir again for a minute over the fire, add the bean 
pulp and all the seasoning; mix and turn out to 
cool. When cool, form into cylinders, dip in egg, 
roll in bread-crumbs and fry in hot fat. Serve plain 
or with tomato sauce. 

BEAN STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

I quart beans i large onion 

}4 cup milk I carrot 

1 pint flour H cup chopped cdery 

2 teaspoonfuls baking- i teaspoonful salt 

powder i saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the beans and soak over night. Next morn- 
ing, drain, cover with fresh cold water, bring to 
boiling-point ; drain ; throw the water away. Cover 
now with two quarts of fresh boiling water. Add 
the onion and carrot chopped, the celery and 
pepper; stew until the beans are tender, add the 
salt. Sift the flour and baking-powder into a bowl ; 
add the milk. Drop these dumplings, by spoonfuls, 
over the beans, cover the kettle; boil ten minutes 
without lifting the lid. Dish the dumplings around 
the edge of a deep platter, pour in the stew and 
serve. 

FLAGEOLETS 

I pint flageolets i teaspoonful salt 

Yi cup cream i saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the flageolets and soak over night. Next 
morning, cover them with fresh boiling water, bring 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 67 

slowly to boiling-point, drain and throw the water 
away; cover with fresh boiling water and simmer 
gently about one hour until tender; drain, add the 
cream, salt and pepper. Shake them a minute over 
the fire and serve in a border of rice. 

RED BEANS, SPANISH STYLE 

I pint kidney beans 3 pimientos 

I pint tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls oil or but- 

I good-sized onion ter 

I teaspoonful salt 

Wash and soak the beans over night. Next morn- 
ing, cover with fresh boiling water, bring slowly to 
boiling-point ; simmer for thirty minutesj drain, and 
throw the water away; cover with fresh boiling 
water and simmer gently until tender — about one 
hour. Chop the onion and pimientos; put the oil or 
butter in a saucepan, add the onion and pimientos; 
shake over the fire until the onion is soft, add the 
tomato and salt. Drain the beans, add them to the 
sauce, simmer gently thirty minutes. Serve in a 
border of carefully boiled rice. 

MOCK CHILI CON-CARNE 

I pint kidney beans or i pint tomato 

Mexican frijoles 6 tablespoonfuls olive or 

I small red pepper (hot) peanut oil 

4 sweet peppers i onion 

I teaspoonful salt 

Wash the beans and soak them over night. Next 

morning, cover them with fresh water, bring to a 

boil; drain; throw the water away; cover again 

with fresh boiling water and cook until the beans 

are tender. A half hour before the beans are done 

put the oil in a saucepan, add the peppers and onion, 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 MRS. RORER S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

chopped, and the tomatoes, strained; cook thirty 
minutes ; add the salt and the beans. Let them sim- 
mer gently until the sauce is thick — about fifteen 
to twenty minutes — and serve with rice. 

CURRY OF KIDNEY BEANS 

1 pint beans i teaspoonful curry 

2 tablespoonfuls butter or i onion 

oil I pint strained tomatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i teaspoonful salt 

Wash and soak the beans over night. Next morn- 
ing, drain, cover with fresh boiling water; boil 
thirty minutes; drain; add fresh water and boil 
until tender. Put the butter or oil in a sauce- 
pan; add the onion, chopped; shake over the fire 
until the onion is soft; add the curry powder; mix 
and add the flour; add the tomatoes, strained, salt, 
and, when boiling, add the beans. Cook slowly 
fifteen minutes and dish in a border of rice. Serve 
with this fried bananas and chutney. 

STEWED DRIED LIMA BEANS 

Soak the beans over night and in the morning cover 
with fresh water ; bring to a boil ; drain ; cover with 
fresh boiling water and cook until tender. You 
may now slip them out of the skins or press them 
through a colander. Dried lima beans may be 
dressed the same as fresh lima beans. 

LIMA BEAN ROAST 

I pint small dried lima H pint stale bread-crumbs 

beans or i quart young i teaspoonful onion juice 

fresh lima beans i teaspoonful salt 

Yz pint peanuts i saltspoonful pepper 

Cook the beans as directed in preceding recipes. 

Put the peanuts through a meat-grinder; mix with 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 69 

the bean pulp and add the bread-crumbs and sea- 
soning. Put this into a square mould that has been 
slightly oiled. When you have it well formed, 
loosen it, turn it out into a baking-pan. Brush 
with beaten egg and bake in a moderate oven until 
a nice brown — ^about half an hour. 

MOCK OYSTERS 

4 parsnips or 6 salsify 2 eggs 

H pint nuts 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

y2 pint boiled rice i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Chop the nuts and mix with the rice; add all the 
seasoning. Boil the salsify or parsnips until tender ; 
press through a colander and add to the other 
ingredients; add the flour, mix, and add the eggs, 
beaten. If this is too thick to drop from a spoon, 
add just a little milk or nut cream. Drop by table- 
spoonfuls into a little hot fat ; when brown on one 
side, turn and brown on the other. Serve hot with 
chili sauce. 

BAKED MACARONI 

ji pound macaroni 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

J4 pound cheese J^ pint milk 

2 tablespoonfuls oil or i teaspoonful salt 

butter I saltspoonful pepper 

Break the macaroni into lengths of two inches. 
Drop into a kettle of boiling salted water and boil 
rapidly thirty minutes; drain, throw into cold 
water. Grate the cheese; rub the butter and flour 
together, add the milk, stir until boiling, then add 
the salt and pepper. Drain the macaroni; put a 
layer in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of 



Digitized by 



Google 



60 MRS. rorbr's vbobtablb cookery 

cheese, another layer of macaroni, then cheese, until 
the dish is filled. Pour over the white sauce, dust 
thickly with bread-crumbs and bake twenty min- 
utes in a moderately quick oven. 

SPAGHETTI k r ITALIENNE 

^ pound spaghetti i good-sized onion 

}i pound cheese i teaspoonful salt 

1 pint strained tomatoes yi teaspoonful paprika 

I tablespoonful butter or oil 

Grasp the spaghetti in your hand, put the ends into 
a kettle of boiling water and press slowly until you 
have the entire length under water. Do not break 
spaghetti. Toss this with a fork until the water 
boils rapidly, then boil for half an hour ; drain and 
throw into cold water. Put the butter or oil into a 
saucepan, add the onion, chopped, and salt; shake 
until the onion is tender and add the tomatoes and 
paprika. When this has reached the boiling-point, 
drain and add the spaghetti. When hot, add the 
cheese chopped or grated. Stir until the cheese is 
melted, and serve at once. 

SPAGHETTI CROQUETTES 

^ pound spaghetti 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

^2 pint milk i teaspoonful salt 

Yolks of 2 eggs I saltspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i tablespoonful chopped 
I teaspoonful onion juice parsley 

Boil the spaghetti as directed in the preceding 
recipe; throw it into cold water to blanch; when 
cold, drain and chop it rather fine. Rub the butter 
and flour together ; add the milk and stir until boil- 
ing; add the yolks of the eggs, the spaghetti, and 
all the seasoning. Turn out to cool. When very 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN THE PLACE OF MEAT 61 

cold form into pyramids or cylinders. Beat an egg 
without separating, add a tablespoonful of water; 
dip the croquettes in this, roll them in bread- 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Drain on brown paper ; 
serve with a cream cheese sauce. 

SPAGHETTI TIMBALES 

^ pound spaghetti 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

6 eggs ^ pint milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoon ful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Boil the spaghetti without breaking for twenty min- 
utes; throw it into cold water; when cold, drain. 
Brush custard cups with butter, dust thickly with 
dried bread-crumbs, then line carefully with the 
spaghetti, starting in the centre of the bottom and 
coiling it around to the very top. Break into each 
cup one or two eggs; dust with salt and pepper. 
Stand these in a pan of boiling water, and bake in 
the oven until the eggs are set. Turn out carefully 
on a heated platter. Rub the butter and flour 
together and add the milk; stir until boiling; add 
the salt and pepper; pour this around the timbales, 
and send at once to the table, 

SPAGHETTI I la MILANAISE 

% pound spaghetti 3 whole tomatoes, or 

54 pound cheese i pint solid canned tomatoes 

2 pimientos 2 tablespoonfuls oil or but- 

I large onion ter 

^ can mushrooms i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Boil the spaghetti without breaking for a half hour ; 
lay it in cold water for another half hour, then 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

drain. Put the butter in a saucepan, add the onion 
and the pimientos chopped; shake over the fire until 
the onion is soft, add the tomatoes. If you use fresh 
tomatoes, they must be peeled and cut into pieces 
and cooked until tender. Add the mushrooms cut 
into slices. Cover the pan and simmer gently 
twenty minutes; then add the spaghetti; when hot 
turn out on a heated platter and cover with the 
grated cheese. If you use Parmesan in the place of 
ordinary American cheese, pass it in a separate 
dish. 

SPAGHETTI k la CARUSO 

% pound spaghetti i good-sized onion 

^2 pound fresh mushrooms 3 cloves 
2 tablespoonfuls butter i garlic 

I pint strained tomatoes i teaspoonful salt 

I salt spoonful pepper 

Boil the spaghetti as directed, by holding in boiling 
water and pressing down slowly ; cover the kettle, 
and boil rapidly for a half hour. Throw into cold 
water. Keep changing the water until it is per- 
fectly cold, and blanch fifteen minutes. Put the 
butter in a saucepan ; add the mushrooms, cut into 
slices, and the salt. Cover the pan for twenty min- 
utes until the mushrooms are tender. While these 
are cooking, put the tomatoes, the onion and the 
garlic into a saucepan and boil until reduced one- 
half; then strain the tomatoes into the mushrooms. 
Drain the spaghetti, add it and the salt and pepper 
to the mixture. When smoking hot, serve. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 

HOW TO POACH EGGS 

Have ready a moderately shallow pan, half filled 
with boiling water ; add a teaspoonful of salt. Take 
the eggs near the pan, break one in a saucer, slide 
it quickly into the boiling water, and so continue 
until you have the desired quantity. Have the 
water sufficiently deep to cover the eggs. If it is 
boiling hard, it will throw the white over the yolk, 
giving it a round appearance, and this is the better 
form for made dishes. Lift each egg with a skim- 
mer, and drop it into a bowl of warm water until 
ready to use. 

If the eggs are to be served on toast, have the 
water nearly boiling, but not actually boiling; it 
must be quiet. Add the salt, break in the eggs; 
lift carefully, trimming the edges and slip them on 
the toast. 

SHIRRED EGGS 
Grease the bottom of individual shirring dishes, or 
a granite or stoneware platter; drop in the eggs, 
dust with salt and pepper, put here and there a few 
bits of butter; cook in the oven until they are set. 

TO HARD-BOIL EGGS 

Put the eggs into warm water, bring them to boil- 
ing-point, and keep them just below 212** Fahr. for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Chill quickly and 
remove the shells or the yolks will turn very dark. 

68 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

TO STEAM EGGS 

Put four eggs into two quarts of boiling water. 
Cover the kettle and let stand for five minutes away 
from the fire. The whites will be soft and creamy, 
the yolks nicely cooked. If you need a greater 
quantity of eggs, let them stand for five minutes on 
the back of the stove; they must not be boiled. 

EGGS AU MIROIR 

Cover the bottom of a stoneware or silver platter 
with a few fresh bread-crumbs. Break in as many 
eggs as necessary for the numbef of persons to 
be served, allowing one or two as you please. Dot 
with bits of butter, using about a tablespoonful to 
each six eggs. Stand the platter over hot water in 
the oven, until the eggs are set. Dust with salt and 
pepper and send to the table. 

EGGS MEXICANA 

1 onion Vi. pint tomatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I green pepper i saltspoonful pepper 

I red pepper 6 or 8 eggs 

Put the butter in a saucepan, add the onion and 
peppers, chopped ; shake until the onion is soft, not 
brown; add the tomatoes, salt and pepper. Shirr 
the eggs as directed in a preceding recipe, either in 
individual dishes, two on a dish, or on a platter. 
When the eggs are ready to serve, put the sauce, 
by spoonfuls, around the edge of the dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 65 

EGGS k la MARTIN 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i salt spoonful pepper 

^2 pint milk 4 tablespoonfuls grated 
6 eggs cheese 

Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, 
stir until boiling, then add the salt and pepper. 
Put half of this sauce in the bottom of a granite or 
stoneware platter, break into it the six eggs, cover 
with the remaining half of the sauce, and sprinkle 
over the cheese ; bake in a moderate oven until the 
eggs are set — ^about ten minutes. 

EGG COQUELICOT 

1 can pimientos H pint milk 

6 or 8 eggs i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i saltspoonful pepper 
2 tablespoonfuls flour 8 rounds of toast 

Trim the tops of the pimientos to make them 
even. Put these inside of custard or timbale cups. 
Break in each one egg, dust it lightly with salt 
and pepper, stand the cups in a baking-pan of 
boiling water and cook in the oven until the 
eggs are set. Allow one round of toast for each 
cup. While they are cooking, rub the butter and 
flour together; add the milk and stir until boiling, 
then add the salt and pepper; pour this into the 
bottom of a heated platter, loosen the pimientos from 
the edge of the cups, put a round of toast over the 
cup and turn out the contents. Stand the toast, on 
which you have turned the egg, in the cream sauce ; 
dust, if you like, with a little chopped parsley and 
send to the table. 

5 



Digitized by 



Google 



6S MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

EGGS k la SUZANNE 

Bake as many potatoes as you have persons to 
serve and allow one egg for each potato. When the 
potatoes are done, cut a slice from the side of each, 
scoop out a portion of the potato, leaving a wall 
half an inch thick. Put the scooped out portion 
through a potato press, add sufficient hot milk 
to make it as soft as mashed potatoes; beat until 
light, add a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper 
and turn the mixture into the pastry bag. Break 
one egg into each potato, dust it lightly with salt 
and pepper, and press the potato from the pastry 
bag, through a star tube, around the edge of the 
baked potato, forming a border, leaving the yolk of 
the egg slightly exposed. Stand these in a baking 
pan and bake until the eggs are set. Serve plain, 
or put a tablespoonful of white sauce in the centre 
of each and garnish with a sprinkling of chopped 
parsley. 

EGGS, HUNGARIAN STYLE 

1 cup rice ^2 pint vegetable stock or 

2 tablespoonfuls butter water 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i teaspoonful paprika 

6 eggs J^ teaspoonful salt 

Wash the rice, boil until tender, drain and dry. 
Arrange this in the form of a mound in the centre 
of a platter. Poach the eggs; lift them carefully 
and place them over the rice. Rub the butter and 
flour together ; add the stock, or water, and paprika ; 
stir until boiling; add the salt; pour this over the 
eggs and rice and send at once to the table. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 67 

EGGS VIRGINIA 

6 ears corn V2 teaspoonful salt 

Vi cupful milk I saltspoonful pepper 

Yz cupful flour 2 eggs 

Grate the corn, add to it the flour, mix; add the 
milk and the yolks of the eggs; fold in the well- 
beaten whites and add the salt and pepper. Drop 
by spoonfuls in a little fat in a saute pan. When 
brown on one side, turn and brown on the other. 
They should be about the size of the top of a large 
coffee cup. Drain, and arrange them on a platter. 
Put on top of each one or two poached eggs. Cover 
with white sauce and garnish the edge of the dish 
with nicely seasoned green peas. This dish gives a 
complete lunch. 

EGGS CREOLE 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i green pepper 

I good-sized onion i teaspoonful salt 

4 peeled fresh tomatoes 6 eggs 

I cup rice 

Wash and boil the rice. Put the butter in a sauce- 
pan, add the onion and pepper, chopped ; shake until 
they are soft, not brown. Cut the tomatoes into 
halves and press out the seeds; then cut them in 
pieces; add them to the pepper and onion, cook 
fifteen minutes, and add the salt. . Put the eggs into 
warm water, bring to boiling-point, and keep them 
at boiling-point for fifteen minutes. Remove the 
shells. Cut the eggs into slices and put them into 
a serving-dish, pour over the sauce; heap the rice 
at the ends or at the sides^ and send to the table. 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

CURRIED EGGS 

3 good-sized onions i saltspoonful ground 

2 tablespoonfuls butter ginger 

I tablespoonful flour % teaspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful curry powder ]/i pint water 

6 hard-boiled eggs 

Put the butter in a saucepan, add the onions, cut 
into very thin slices; stand the saucepan over hot 
water and cook for twenty minutes ; add the curry 
powder, ginger, salt and flour; mix and add the 
water; stir until boiling. Cut the eggs into thin 
slices; arrange them over a dish of carefully boiled 
rice on a hot platter; pour over the sauce and send 
to the table. This dish is made more attractive by a 
garnish of sweet peppers cut into strips. I should 
also serve with it a tomato salad, and baked or 
fried bananas. 

EGGS BEAUREGARD 

S hard-boiled eggs ^^ pint milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i saltspoonful pepper 

5 slices toast 

Remove the shells from the eggs, separate the 
whites and the yolks ; put the yolks through a sieve 
and the whites through a vegetable press, or chop 
them very fine. Rub the butter and flour together, 
add the milk, stir until boiling. Add the salt and 
pepper and the whites of the eggs. Arrange the 
toast on a heated platter, pour over the sauce, dust 
the top with the yolks, stand the platter at the oven 
door a moment, and 3erve. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BGGS 69 

EGGS JEFFERSON 

6 smooth round tomatoes ^ pint milk 
6 eggs 6 slices bread 

3 tablespoon fuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoon fuls flour i saltspoonful pepper 

Cut slices from the blossom ends of the tomatoes, 
scoop out the seeds and stand the tomatoes in a 
baking-pan in the oven until they are hot and soft — 
about fifteen minutes. Take from the fire and dust 
each with salt and pepper, break in each, one egg and 
put back in the oven until the eggs are set. While 
these are cooking, make the toast and arrange it 
on a platter. Rub two tablespoonfuls of the butter 
and the flour together, add the milk and stir until 
boiling; add the salt and pepper. When the toma- 
toes are done, divide the remaining butter into six 
bits ; pitt a bit on the top of each tomato and stand 
them on the toast. Pour around the cream sauce 
and dust with chopped parsley. 

EGGS au GRATIN 

6 hard-boiled eggs 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

4 tablespoonfuls grated H pint milk 

cheese J^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter A dash of red peppef* 

Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk and 
stir until boiling; add the salt. Remove the shells 
and cut the eggs into slices, crosswise. Put them 
in a shallow baking-dish and pour over the white 
sauce; sprinkle over the cheese, then a dusting of 
red pepper, and brown in a quick oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

EGGS i la TRIPE 

1 large Spanish onion % nutmeg, grated 
8 hard-boiled eges ^2 teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoon fuls thick cream 
2 tablespoonfuls flour Juice of i lemon 

I saltspoonful black pepper 

Cut the onion into very thin slices; separate the 
slices into rings ; cover with boiling water and boil 
rapidly ten minutes; then drain and throw away 
the water. Cover again with about a quart of fresh 
boiling water; boil until tender and transparent; 
drain, this time saving the water. Remove the 
shells from the eggs, cut into slices lengthwise; 
lay in the serving-dish with the onions. Rub the 
butter and flour together; add the nutmeg, the 
pepper and a half pint of the water in which the 
onions were boiled ; stir until boiling, add the lemon 
juice and the cream. When thoroughly hot, pour 
it over the eggs, garnish with triangular pieces of 
toast, and serve at once. 

EGGS i la SUISSE 
Cover the bottom of a baking-dish with melted 
butter, break into it fresh eggs, cover the top with 
very thin slices of Swiss cheese, dust with salt and 
pepper. To each half dozen eggs, pour over a 
half cup of cream or milk, and bake in the oven 
until the eggs are set and the cheese melted. 

EGGS a la DAUPHIN 

8 hard-boiled eggs 2 tablespoonfuls Parmesan 

4 tablespoonfuls butter J^ cup cream 

1/2 teaspoonful salt }4 cup sifted bread-crumbs 

% nutmeg, grated 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

I raw egg 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

^^ pint milk 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 71 

Remove the shells from six hard-boiled eggs; cut 
into halves, lengthwise ; take out the yolks and press 
them through a sieve. Add the first butter, melted, 
the salt, nutmeg and Parmesan. Add the cream 
to the bread-crumbs; mix until smooth, add them 
to the yolk mixture, and the raw egg, well beaten. 
Put a layer of this in the bottom of a shallow 
baking-dish, fill the whites and arrange them in 
tiers or pyramids. Remove the shells from the 
two extra eggs; put one egg on top as a crown. 
Take the yolk from the other and rub it through a 
sieve; chop the white very fine. Pour the remain- 
ing quantity of the yolk mixture around the bottom 
of the dish. Cover with the chopped white and 
bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. Take from 
the oven, cover with white sauce, garnish with 
triangular pieces of toast and the sifted yolk. 

POACHED EGGS ON FRIED TOMATOES 

Cut solid tomatoes into slices a quarter of an inch 
thick ; dust them with salt and pepper ; dip in beaten 
egg, then in bread-crumbs; fry in a little hot fat, 
browning on one side, then turning and browning 
on the other. While these are frying, poach one 
€gg for each slice. Dish the tomatoes on a platter, 
trim the eggs, place each on a tomato, dust with 
salt and pepper, and send to the table. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

6 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

4 tablespoonfuls water l^ teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Beat the eggs slightly with a fork, add the water 

and seasoning. Put the butter in a shallow pan; 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

when melted, add the eggs; stir with a spatula or 
fork, scraping them constantly from the bottom of 
the pan. Turn out at once on a heated platter; 
garnish with toast, and serve. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH LETTUCE 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 6 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls minced i head lettuce 

onion ^ teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash a good-sized head of lettuce and place it in 
boiling water; let it stand for about ten minutes; 
drain. Roll each leaf up and shred it as you would 
noodles; shake out the shreds. Put the butter and 
the onion in a frying-pan; shake until the onion is 
cooked. Beat the eggs without separating until 
they are well mixed, not light ; add the salt, pepper 
and the lettuce. Turn the ingredients in with the 
butter and onion and stir with a fork until nicely 
cooked. Turn quickly to a heated dish. Garnish 
with triangular pieces of toast. 

EGGS i la VALENCIENNE 

1 cupful rice 6 eggs 

^ pint strained tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls grated 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Parmesan 

2 tablespoonfuls flour % nutmeg, grated 

H can mushrooms i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash and boil the rice. Rub the butter and flour 
together, add the tomato and stir until boiling. Add 
the mushrooms, chopped very fine, salt, pepper and 
nutmeg. Stand this over hot water while you cook 
the eggs. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a 



Digitized by 



Google 



£GGS 73 

platter, either silver, granite or stoneware; when 
hot, break in the eggs and stand in the oven until 
the eggs are set. Then heap the rice around the 
dish as a border, pour over the sauce, dust with 
cheese, and send at once to the table. 

EGGS k la FINNOIS 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 6 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i tablespoonful chopped 

2 green peppers chives 

1/2 pint tomatoes 

Rub the butter and flour together; add the toma- 
toes and the pepper, chopped very fine. Stand this 
over hot water for fifteen minutes. While this is 
standing, carefully poach the eggs. Toast six 
rounds of bread ; put one egg on each slice of toast ; 
pour around the sauce ; dust thickly with the chives 
and send at once to the table, 

EGGS I la GRETNA. 

2 heads or roots celery 6 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls butter ^ pint milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i teaspoonful salt 

I salt spoonful pepper 

Cut the celery into one-inch lengths; wash thor- 
oughly ; cover with boiling water and boil gently for 
thirty minutes until the celery is tender. Drain, 
saving the water in which it was cooked to use as 
vegetable stock, or as sauce for another dish. Rub 
the butter and flour together; add the milk; when 
boiling, add the celery, salt and pepper. Stand this 
over hot water while you poach the eggs. Toast 



Digitized by 



Google 



74 MRS. RORER S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

six squares of bread ; butter them and put on each 
an egg. Turn the celery in the middle of the dish ; 
stand the eggs around. Serve very hot. Or the 
eggs may be dished on carefully boiled rice and the 
celery put around the edge of the dish. 

EGGS k la BONNE FEUCME 

2 good-sized onions 6 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i saltspoonful pepper 

a pint milk % nutmeg, grated 

Separate the whites and the yolks of the eggs. 
Slice the onions; put them, with the butter, in a 
frying-pan and shake until the onions are soft. 
Then add the flour, mix, and add the milk, salt, 
pepper and nutmeg. Stand this where it will keep 
very hot while you beat the eggs. Beat the yolks 
until creamy, and the whites until very stiff. Mix 
the yolks with the cream sauce, then fold in the 
whites. Turn the mixture into a baking-dish and 
bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. Serve at 
once. 

EGGS k la PAYSANNE 

yi cup cream ^ teaspoonful salt 

6 eggs I saltspoonful pepper 

Pour the cream in the bottom of a baking-dish; 
break in the eggs, dust them with the salt and 
pepper. Stand the baking-dish in a pan of water 
and cook until the eggs are set. Be careful not to 
make them too hard. Serve in the same dish in which 
they are cooked. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 75 

EGGS en PANADE 

6 slices bread 4 tablespoonfuls sweet 

1 tablespoonful chopped cream 

parsley 4 tablespoonfuls oil 

2 eggs H teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Trim the crusts from the bread. Break the eggs 

in a bowl, beat them until well mixed, add the 

cream, salt and pepper. Put the oil in a shallow 

pan. Dip the bread into the beaten egg, saute 

quickly in the oil. When brown on one side, turn 

and brown the other. Send at once to the table. 

This may be served at lunch in the place of meat, 

or it may be served with a jelly sauce as dessert at 

dinner. 

EGGS a I'AURORE 

6 hard-boiled eggs i saltspoonful ground all- 
2 tablespoonfuls butter spice 

Yolks of 3 raw eggs i teaspoonful salt 

yi pint white sauce i saltspoonful pepper 

Drop the eggs in warm water and bring to a boil > 
boil slowly fifteen minutes. Cool, remove the 
shells, separate the yolks and whites ; put the yolks 
through a sieve, chop the whites very fine. Melt 
the butter and add it to the yolks; add the salt, 
pepper, allspice and the raw yolks, beaten. Rub 
until perfectly smooth. Add the chopped whites 
to the white sauce ; stand it over hot water for ten 
minutes. Cover the bottom of a platter with 
squares of toast. Pour over the white sauce and 
cover it with the yolk mixture, smoothing it in the 
form of a pyramid. Cut squares of bread into tri- 
angles, dip in milk and put them around the dish. 
Bake in a hot oven five or six minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

EGGS i la POLONAISE 

9 eggs I tablespoonful chopped 

2 tablespoonfuls butter parsley 

I teaspoonful salt i saltspoonful pepper 

Hard-boil six of the eggs. When done, remove the 
shells, separate the whites from the yolks, cutting 
them in two lengthwise. Take out the yolks with- 
out breaking the whites. Put the yolks through a 
sieve into a bowl. Add the raw yolks of the remain- 
ing eggs; add the parsley, salt and pepper. Beat 
the whites of the raw eggs until very stiff, then add 
them to the yolks. Take a portion of this mixture 
and put it over the bottom of a small baking-dish; 
then fill the whites so that they are perfectly even. 
Put the whites together again as though they were 
whole eggs. Arrange them in the centre of the dish. 
If you have any yolk mixture left over, put it 
around the whites as a sort of extra border. Pour 
over a little clarified butter, dust with bread- 
crumbs, brown quickly in the oven, and serve in the 
dish in which it is cooked. 

EGGS k la HYDE 

6 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

^2 can mushrooms J^ pint water or cocoanut 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped milk 

parsley 5^ cup sweet cream 

1 small onion or shallot i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i saltspoonful pepper 

Hard-boil the eggs. Put the butter in a saucepan; 
add the onion or shallot, chopped ; shake until it is 
soft, then add the mushrooms, chopped; then the 
flour and the water or cocoanut milk. When boil- 
ing, add the salt and pepper. Take from the fire 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 77 

and add the parsley. Cut the eggs into halves, 
remove the yolks, keeping the whites whole. Press 
the yolks through a sieve, add the cream, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a dash of cayenne. Mix thor- 
oughly, and fill into the twelve halves of egg 
whites. Arrange these neatly on a stoneware or 
granite platter; pour over the sauce, put in the 
oven for about five minutes, and send to the table. 

OMELETS 

If you can make a plain omelet, any vegetable 
material or seasoning, according to the various 
recipes, are easily added. Do not attempt more 
than a six-egg omelet. If your family requires 
eight or ten eggs, make two omelets, turn them on 
a large platter, and garnish as directed. Use for 
the omelet a shallow, perfectly smooth frying-pan. 
If possible, keep this pan for omelets only. 

PLAIN OMELET 

Break six eggs into a bowl ; give them twelve good 
vigorous beats; add six tablespoonfuls of warm 
water and a saltspoonful of pepper. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan; when hot, 
pour in the eggs. Shake, turning the bottom over 
the top, if possible. In other words, keep the soft 
part going down underneath that which is cooked. 
Dust over a half teaspoonful of salt. With a limber 
knife, lift the edge, let the soft portion run under- 
neath. When the omelet is set, fold over the half 
next to the handle, loosen the omelet thoroughly 
from the pan and turn it out on a heated dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



78 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

OMELET WITH PEAS 

Make a plain omelet; turn it out on a good-sized 
platter ; surround it with nicely cooked and seasoned 
green peas. 

OMELET WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS 
Cut asparagus tips two inches in length; throw 
them into boiling salted water; boil for three-quar- 
ters of an hour and drain. Make a white sauce. 
Make a six-egg plain omelet; turn out on a heated 
dish. Garnish the ends of the platter with the 
asparagus tips, pour over them the white sauce, and 
send to the table. 

OMELET WITH FRESH TOMATOES 

4 good-sized tomatoes 6 tablespoonfuls water 

6 eggs Yi teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i saltspoonful pepper 

Peel the tomatoes, cut them into halves, press out 

the seeds, then cut into pieces. Put these, with 

half the butter, in a stewpan, cover and stew gently 

fifteen minutes ; season with salt and pepper. Make 

a plain omelet with the six eggs and water and the 

remaining butter. Turn the omelet out on a heated 

platter, garnish the ends with the fresh cooked 

tomatoes, and send at once to the table. 

^ -SPANISH OMELET 
I green pepper 6 mushrooms 

I red pepper 6 eggs 

1 onion 6 tablespoonfuls water 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i tablespoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Put half the butter in a saucepan, add the onion 
chopped very fine, mushrooms and the red and green 
pepper ; cover, cook slowly for twenty minutes. Make 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 79 

a plain omelet from the rest of the ingredients; turn 
this out on a heated dish, fill the ends of the dish or 
platter with the Spanish sauce, and send it to the 
table. This omelet can be made very handsome by 
saving a quarter of the green and red pepper, cut- 
ting it into fancy shapes to use as a garnish for the 
top of the omelet. 

QUAKER OMELET 

Yz pint soft fine bread- 4 eggs 

crumbs J^ teaspoonful salt 

Vz pint milk i saltspoonful pepper 

Beat the eggs until well mixed, without separating. 
Put the bread into the milk, let it stand a few mo- 
ments, then add the eggs and beat with an ^^'g 
beater until the bread is thoroughly blended; add 
the salt and pepper. Turn into two greased pie- 
plates, bake in a quick oven until set and jelly-like. 
Serve in the dishes in which it is baked. 

CHEESE OMELET 

6 eggs ^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese i saltspoonful pepper 

Beat the eggs without separating until well mixed ; 

add the cheese, salt and pepper. Finish the same as 

a plain omelet. Turn this out on a heated dish and 

send at once to the table. 

A MEXICAN OMELET 

6 eggs 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

3 roots salsify 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

I red pepper J^ pint milk 

I green pepper J4 nutmeg, grated 

Yi teaspoonful salt 2 whole tomatoes 

Put two tablespoonfuls of the butter in a saucepan ; 

add the peppers chopped very fine. Shake until the 

peppers are soft. Peel the tomatoes ; cut them into 



Digitized by 



Google 



so MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

halves, squeeze out the seeds, cut the flesh into 
small bits. Cook with the peppers for just a 
moment and add the salt. The salsify should be 
boiled until tender; when cold cut into thin slices. 
Rub the remaining quantity of butter and flour 
together, add the milk; when boiling, add the 
salsify. Add a half teaspoonful of salt and a salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Stand this over hot water 
while you make the omelet. Break the eggs with- 
out separating, beat them two minutes, by time. 
Make into a plain omelet according to directions, 
but before folding one half over the other, put in 
two tablespoonfuls of the tomato mixture, fold the 
omelet over, and turn it out on a platter. Pour 
around the white sauce and salsify. Garnish the 
ends of the dish with the remaining quantity of 
Mexican sauce. Send to the table. 

OMELET WITH FINE HERBS 
6 eggs ^ tablespoonful chopped 

1 tablespoonful chopped chives 

parsley J4 cupful, or 
^ tablespoonful chopped 6 tablespoonfuls sweet 

tarragon cream 

2 tablespoonfuls butter ^ teaspoonful salt 

A dash of pepper 

Break the eggs in a bowl; add the cream, and all 
the ingredients, except the butter; put the butter 
in your omelet or saute-pan ; when melted and hot, 
pour in the eggs. Shake to keep the mixture loose 
from the bottom of the pan. With a limber knife, 
lift the edge, allowing the soft portion to run under- 
neath. So continue, until the omelet is set, con- 
stantly shaking the pan to keep it loose. Fold one 
half over the other and turn out on to a heated dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SAUCES 

All the ordinary sauces are very easily made, if one 
will adhere strictly to the measurements and direc- 
tions for putting them together. I will repeat that 
all measurements here are level, and it requires two 
level tablespoonfuls of flour to properly thicken each 
half pint of liquid. Sauces should not be boiled any 
length of time, or the butter will separate, making 
a greasy sauce. When directions tell you to bring 
them just to boiling-point, it means to take them 
from the fire the moment they boil. Disobedience 
to rules, or carelessness, always produces bad results. 
A small gravy strainer should be kept near the 
stove, or in the table drawer, to be used only for 
straining sauces. It is wise to train your cook, or 
make it a rule for yourself, to always strain a sauce. 
It is sure then to be smooth. 

WHITE OR CREAM SAUCE 

2 tablespoonfuls butter H pint milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour J/^ teaspoonful salt 

Yi saltspoonful pepper 

Rub the butter and flour together; add the milk, 
cold. Stand the saucepan over the fire and stir con- 
tinually until it reaches the boiling-point ; take from 
the fire, and add the salt and pepper. Strain. 

Cheese sauce is made according to this rule, 
adding at last six tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 
e 81 



Digitized by 



Google 



82 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

TOMATO SAUCE 

2 tablespoon fuls butter i teaspoonful grated onion 

2 tablespoonfuls flour ^ teaspoonful salt 

H pint strained tomatoes J^ saltspoonful pepper . 

Rub the butter and flour together; add the toma- 
toes; stir until boiling; take from the fire and add 
the seasonings. The onion may be omitted if not 
liked. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SAUCE 

Make precisely the same as plain tomato sauce, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of cream after the sauce 
has been taken from the fire. 

SAUCE BECHAMEL 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful onion juice 

1 tablespoonful flour i bay leaf 
Yolks of 2 eggs y2 teaspoonful salt 

H pint milk ^ saltspoonful pepper 

Rub the butter and flour together; add the milk; 
stir until boiling. Add the salt, pepper, onion juice, 
bay leaf, and at the last the yolks of the eggs, well 
beaten. Reheat carefully, but do not boil or it will 
curdle. Strain. 

PLAIN DRAWN BUTTER 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i tablespoonful vinegar 
2 tablespoonfuls flour or lemon juice 

54 pint boiling water ^ teaspoonful salt 

Yi saltspoonful pepper 

Rub the butter and flour together; add the boiling 
water ; stir until boiling ; then take from the fire and 
add the seasonings. This is a nice sauce to serve 
with boiled cucumbers, asparagus or summer 
squash. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SAUCES 83 

ENGLISH DRAWN BUTTER 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Juice of half a lemon 

2 tablespoonfuls flour J4 teaspoqpful salt 

54 pint boiling water 54 saltspoonful pepper 

Rub the butter and flour together; add the boiling 

water and bring to boiling-point ; take from the fire, 

add the lemon juice, an extra spoonful of butter 

and the seasoning. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE* No. i 

4 tablespoonfuls butter i bay leaf 

2 tablespoonfuls flour x saltspoonful celery seed 

54 pint boiling water Yolks of 2 eggs 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar ^2 teaspoonful salt 

I slice onion ' 54 saltspoonful pepper 

Put the vinegar, the onion, celery seed, bay leaf 

and pepper into a small saucepan. Let it boil until 

reduced one-half; strain and stand it away to cool. 

Rub two tablespoonfuls of the butter and the flour 

together; add the boiling water and stir over the 

fire until it thoroughly boils. Take from the fire; 

add the yolks of the eggs, beaten; reheat, being 

careful not to curdle. Take again from the fire and 

add the remaining quantity of butter cut up into 

bits. Stir this carefully to prevent the butter from 

becoming oily; add the vinegar and strain at once 

into a sauceboat. This is usually served warm, 

not hot. 

SAUCE H0LLANDAI8E, No. a 

Yolks of 4 eggs i tablespoonful tarragon 

5^ pound clarified butter vinegar 

54 teaspoonful salt A dash of cayenne 

Put the butter in a double boiler; when thoroughly 

heated, skim, and pour off the very clear portion. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs in a saucepan ; stand this 



Digitized by 



Google 



84 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

in a pan of hot water ; add the butter, a tablespoon- 
ful at a time, beating all the while. When the 
sauce is thick,* like mayonnaise dressing, add the 
salt, cayenne and vinegar. Strain at once through 
a fine sieve into the sauceboat. This sauce cannot 
be reheated, and is served warm, not hot. 

BROWN SAUCE 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i tablespoonful kitchen 

2 tablespoonfuls flour bouquet 

y2 pint stock ^ teaspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful onion juice J4 saltspoonful pepper 

Rub the butter and flour together; add the stock and 
stir until boiling. Add all the other ingredients; 
strain, and it is ready to use. 

CANNED MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Add one can of mushrooms to a half pint of water 
or stock; cook them slowly twenty minutes. Rub 
together two tablespoonfuls of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour; add the mushrooms and water, 
a half teaspoonful of salt and a half saltspoonful of 
pepper. Bring this to boiling-point, and serve. If 
the water has evaporated on the mushrooms, and 
the sauce is too thick, add a little stock or water 
enough to make up the half pint. Color with 
kitchen bouquet. 

FRESH MUSHROOM SAUCE 

54 pound fresh mushrooms i tablespoonful flour 
J4 pint milk H teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Yz saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the mushrooms and remove the stems, but 
do not peel them; cut into thin slices; put them 
with the butter into a saucepan; cover closely and 



Digitized by 



Google 



SAUCES 85 

cook twenty minutes, then add the milk, the salt and 
pepper. Moisten the flour with a little cold milk; 
add it to the mushrooms; bring to boiling-point, 
and it is ready to serve. This is an exceedingly 
nice sauce to serve with omelet, with boiled egg- 
plant, or with any of the various nut dishes. 

SPANISH PEPPER SAUCE 

4 green peppers 54 teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 54 cupful water 

Wash, take out the seeds and cut the peppers into 

rings or strips. Put the butter in a saucepan; 

when hot put in the peppers, cover and cook over a 

slow fire ten minutes. Add the salt and water, 

cover and cook twenty minutes more. Serve on 

mock tenderloin steak, or other mock meat. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

I good-sized horseradish i onion 

J4 pint soft bread-crumbs i tablespoon ful butter 

I pint milk ^ teaspoonful salt 

Scrape and throw the horseradish into cold water 

for half an hour, then grate it. Put the milk in a 

double boiler; add the bread-crumbs, the onion 

griated, and the horseradish. Cook fifteen minutes, 

stirring occasionally, then add the salt and butter. 

This may be served with bean or pea croquettes, 

or with peia pudding. 

SAUCE VINAIGRETTE 

Chop two olives, one gherkin, and one small onion ; 
add them to a half cupful of tarragon vinegar. Boil 
a moment, take from the fire, add one tablespoonful 
of capers or chopped pickled nasturtiums, one of 
chopped parsley and one teaspoonful of vinegar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



A GROUP OF STARCHY VEGETABLES 

Rice Italian pastes, as 

Potatoes macaroni and spaghetti 

Chestnuts Tapioca 

Hominy Sago 

Hominy grits Cassava 

Sweet potatoes Arrowroot 

Yams Cornstarch 

In this group I have purposely placed such manu- 
factured articles as tapioca, arrowroot and sago, 
because they must be reckoned as carbohydrates 
in bills of fare. 

Starchy vegetables belong to the carbohydrates 
— heat, energy and fat producers. Cooking is abso- 
hitely necessary to make them easy of digestion. 
Mastication not only breaks them apart, but the 
ptyalin (an ensym), under the influence of the 
saliva, an alkaline secretion, begins the conversion 
of the starches into sugar. The digestion is fin- 
ished in the small intestine. 

All starches in their final digestion are converted 
into sugars. 

RICE 

(Orysa saliva, Linn.) 

Rice belongs to the great order of grasses. The 
seeds of many are called cereals. Rice is both a 
cereal and a vegetable in cooking parlance. It is 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCHY VEGETABLES 87 

very rich in starch, contains a small amount of 
proteid, a trace of fat and some mineral matter. 
Many of the East Indian varieties contain a con- 
siderable amount of nitrogenous material, which 
makes it possible for the poor of that country to 
subsist on a diet composed chiefly of rice. In many 
countries rice is used just as it is husked, without 
polishing. In America, all the rice is highly 
polished. In this way the rice loses a large amount 
of nitrogen but very little starch. 

Rice is the most easily digested of all starchy 
foods. It contains four times as much nourishment 
as an equal weight of potatoes. It is readily 
absorbed and leaves little or no waste in the intes- 
tines. It is the most desirable starchy food, both 
from a nutritive and money standpoint. When 
served with. milk, eggs or nitrogenous nuts, it forms 
a well-balanced meal. 

COMPOSITION OF DRY RICE (Church) 

Water 14.6 

Albuminoids, etc 7.5 

Starch, etc 76.0 

Fat as 

Cellulose 0.9 

Mineral matter 0.5 

COMPOSITION OF BOILED RICE (Hutchinson) 

Water * 52.7 

Proteid 5.0 

Fat 0.1 

Carbohydrates 41.9 

Mineral matter 0.3 

> TO BOIL RICE 

Wash the rice through several cold waters. Let 
it soak in the last water fifteen or twenty minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

Have ready a large kettle partly filled with rapidly 
boiling water. Sprinkle in the rice slowly, so as 
not to stop the boiling. Boil rapidly, in an uncov- 
ered vessel, twenty minutes. If the rice seems hard 
at the end of twenty minutes, boil it ten minutes 
longer. It must be dry and mealy like a potato, 
not wet. Drain it in a colander; pour over it 
quickly a quart of cold water; stand the colander 
on a plate and with a fork toss the rice from the 
centre to the sides ; stand it on the back of the stove 
or at the oven door where the heat will pass through 
and dry the rice. Turn it at once into a shallow 
dish or platter, tossing it out with a fork, being 
very careful not to break the grains. 

If this recipe is carefully followed each grain 
will have swollen four times its natural size and no 
two grains will be sticking together. It should be 
as white as snow. 

Plain boiled rice is served as a starchy accom- 
paniment to baked beans, peas pudding, stewed 
lentils, nut rolls, and as a foundation for many egg 
dishes. It is served with sugar and milk or cream 
as a dessert or breakfast cereal. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

\^ pint rice i tablespoonful chopped 

I quart milk parsley 

Yolks of 4 eggs i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the rice, put it in a double boiler with the 
milk; boil until the milk has been absorbed by the 
rice; add the yolks of the eggs, beaten, and the 
parsley, salt and pepper; mix and turn out to cool. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCHY VEGETABLES 89 

When cool, beat an egg without separating; add 
a tablespoonful of water. Form the croquettes into 
pyramids or cylinders, dip them in the beaten egg, 
roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot oil (360** 
Fahr.) until brown. If eggs are expensive and 
scarce, the white of one egg may be beaten with a 
tablespoonful of water and used for dipping, instead 
of an extra egg. 

These croquettes have meat value. They may 
be served plain or with cream or tomato sauce. 



POTATOES 

(Solcmum tuberosum, Linn.) 

Potatoes, when carefully cooked, constitute a whole- 
some, easily digested, starchy food. They cannot 
be depended upon in any way as a complete food, 
but act as a diluent to such nitrogenous foods as 
nuts, peas, beans and lentils. The food value and 
digestibility depends upon the method of cooking. 
Baked or boiled, carefully, they are more easily 
digested than white bread or hominy. When fried 
or mashed and patted down with melted butter they 
are less digestible. In frying, the outside crust is 
hardened in the hot fat, which hinders the diges- 
tion secretion of the mouth from acting upon the 
starch grains. 

Potatoes belong to the carbohydrates, or heat, 
fat and energy producing foods. They are digested 
in the mouth and small intestine. Unless well mas- 
ticated the small intestine must do the work alone, 



Digitized by 



Google 



90 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

The flavor of the potato is due to a mineral 
matter. The starchy or nutritious part of the potato 
lies near the skin; hence the necessity of a thin 
paring. 

Full-grown potatoes are best. Very young and 
very old potatoes are sometimes not worth the 
cooking. The potato is a swollen underground 
stem, the storehouse for the nourishment of the 
young plant ; hence, in the spring when the potato 
sprouts it does so at the expense of the starch ; the 
skin becomes loose ; the flesh of the potato shrinks, 
and a large part of the nourishment is lost. Old 
potatoes should be carefully peeled and soaked in 
cold water at least thirty minutes before cooking. 

PLAIN BOILED POTATOES 

Peel the potatoes, taking off a very thin peeling. 
Throw them into cold water for half an hour, then 
drop into a kettle of boiling, unsalted water; boil 
until you can pierce them to the centre with a fork. 
Drain perfectly dry ; stand them in a kettle over the 
fire; sprinkle lightly with salt and shake until they 
are white and dry. Turn at once into a heated 
dish ; send to the table uncovered. 

POTATOES BOILED IN THEIR JACKETS 

Scrub the potatoes thoroughly ; rinse them ; soak in 
cold water for half an hour. Then boil precisely 
the same as directed in preceding recipe. Potatoes 
in jackets may have a peeling taken off the entire 
round of the potato, lengthwise. In this way a por- 
tion of the salts are lost. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCHY VEGETABLES 91 

MASHED POTATOES 

After the potatoes are boiled and dry, put them 
through a vegetable press into a hot bowl or 
anotiier saucepan. To each quart of mashed pota- 
toes (these need not be measured, you can tell by 
the eye) add a half cup of scalding milk. Beat 
over the fire until they are light and white. Heap 
at once into a heated dish. Do not pack them down, 
and do not cover the dish. 



POTATO CROQUETTES 

I pint mashed potatoes x teaspoonful onion juice 

Yolks of 2 eggs I teaspoonful salt 

I tablespoonful chopped i saltspoonful pepper 

parsley % nutmeg, grated 

Add all the ingredients to the mashed potatoes; 
mix; form into cylinders; dip into beaten tggy roll 
in bread-crumbs ; fry in hot fat. The fat for potato 
croquettes must be at least 360® Fahr. or the potato 
will swell and crack the covering. Instead of being 
dry they will be greasy. 



BOULETTES POTATOES 

I pint mashed potatoes Yolks of 2 eggs 

I teaspoonful summer i teaspoonful onion juice 

savory or thyme % nutmeg, grated 

I teaspoonful salt A dash of red pepper 

Add all the ingredients to the mashed potatoes; 
form into small balls a little larger than an Eng- 
lish walnut; dip them in egg, and roll in bread- 
crumbs ; fry in hot fat. These are very nice to use 
as a garnish for mock fish; also a nice accompani- 
ment to baked beans. 



Digitized by 



Google 



92 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

POTATO PUFF 

I pint mashed potatoes ^ cup hot milk 

Whites of 2 eggs i saltspoonful pepper 

If the potatoes are cold, put into a saucepan with 
the milk and pepper and stir until they are hot; 
then fold in the whites of the eggs, well beaten. 
Turn this into a baking-dish and bake until a golden 
brown, about fifteen minutes. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of even size, scrub and soak them 
in cold water for half an hour ; put into a moderately 
hot oven and bake until they are soft to the very 
centre. Do not pierce them with a fork, but after 
they have been baking half an hour take one in 
your hand in a towel, press it carefully without 
breaking the skin; if it feels soft to the centre, it 
is done. Take each potato carefully in your hand 
in a towel and work it inside the skin until it is 
thoroughly mashed. Dish on a napkin and send 
at once to the table. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Bake the potatoes according to the preceding recipe. 
Cut a slice from the side of each potato ; scoop out 
the cooked potato; put it through a vegetable 
press; add a little milk, salt and pepper, and beat 
until light and white. Put this mixture into the 
skin, stand in a baking-pan and bake until a nice 
brown, 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCHY VEGETABLES 93 

POTATOES en SURPRISE 

I pint or I can green peas Y^ cup milk 

8 good-sized potatoes i teaspoonful salt 

I tablespoonful butter i saltspoonful pepper 

If the peas are fresh, cook them until tender; add 
the butter and half the salt and pepper. Bake the 
potatoes; cut a slice from one end; scoop out the 
shell carefully, leaving a wall about a half inch 
thick. Mash the potato; add the milk and the 
remainder of the seasoning; beat until light. Put 
a portion of this into the shell, leaving a well in 
the centre. Into this well put the peas. Cover over 
with sufficient mashed potato to fill the skin. Put 
on the cap or slice that you cut from the end; 
fasten it with a wooden toothpick or skewer; put 
in a baking-pan and bake fifteen minutes, until 
thoroughly heated. Serve on a folded napkin. 

STEAMED POTATOES 

Peel the potatoes and soak in cold water for thirty 
minutes ; put them in a steamer over boiling water, 
keep the water boiling continuously until you can 
pierce the potatoes to the very centre — thirty-five 
minutes. Serve in an uncovered dish. 

POTATOES O'BRIEN 

4 potatoes 54 teaspoonful salt 

y2 green sweet pepper 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Remove the seeds from the pepper and chop the 
flesh very very fine. Chop and add the potatoes 
and the salt. Put the butter in a shallow frying- 
pan; when hot, put in the potatoes. As soon as 



Digitized by 



Google 



94 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

they begin to brown, stir them up, and so con- 
tinue until the potatoes are nicely browned; then 
press to one side of the pan, cook a moment, turn 
out on a heated dish, and send to the table. 

SWELLED POTATOES 

Peel four good-sized potatoes; cut into very thin 
slices lengthwise. Cut off the ends, giving them a 
square appearance. Throw into cold water for half 
an hour, then drain and dry on a towel. Put. a 
portion into the frying-basket ; put them down into 
the fat at a temperature of 240** Fahr. Shake them 
until they are half cooked, not brown ; drain them ; 
throw them in a pan that has been lined with paper. 
Continue the frying. When you are ready to serve 
the potatoes, put a few back into the frying-basket 
and plunge them down into the very hot fat — about 
350° to 360° Fahr. They will at once swell. Drain 
them in a colander, dust with salt, and continue 
until you have the desired quantity. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Cut raw potatoes into eighths lengthwise and proceed 
the same as for swelled potatoes. 

POTATOES PROVENCAL 

4 tablespoonfuls olive oil i tablespoonful chopped 

I onion parsley 

I clove garlic Y^ teaspoonful salt 

6 medium-sized potatoes i saltspoonful pepper 

Pare the potatoes; cut into halves, into quarters 
and eighths, lengthwise. Chop the onion; put it, 
with the oil, in a baking-dish ; stand it on top of the 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCHY VEGETABLES 95 

fire until very hot. Throw in the potatoes; add 
the salt and pepper; shake and stir until the pota- 
toes are covered with the oil. Chop the garlic very- 
fine and sprinkle it over the top. Cover the baking- 
dish and bake in the oven until the potatoes are 
tender. Dust with the chopped parsley and send to 
the table. These may be cooked over a slow fire 
instead of being placed in the oven. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

4 cold boiled potatoes i tablespoonful chopped 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley 

onion Yi teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter H saltspoonful pepper 

Cut the potatoes into dice. Put the butter in a 
shallow frying-pan ; add the onion. Shake until the 
onion is slightly brown, and add the potatoes. 
Shake over a quick fire until the potatoes are 
slightly browned. Turn at once into a heated dish ; 
dust with the parsley, salt and pepper. If there is 
any butter left in the pan, be careful to keep it 
there ; do not pour it over the potatoes. 

GERMAN FRIED POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices a half inch thick, 
lengthwise, and each slice into squares of an inch ; 
or, if you like, you may stamp them out with the 
round top of a pastry tube or an ordinary small, 
round cutter. Put them into the frying-basket, 
plunge into hot fat — temperature about 360** Fahr. 
When they are nicely browned, drain, dust with 
salt and pepper. Serve on a heated dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



96 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

GRILLED POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled white or sweet potatoes into slices, 
lengthwise; trim them neatly; brush with melted 
butter ; dust with salt and pepper ; broil over a clear 
fire until nicely browned on one side; turn the 
broiler and brown them on the other side. Serve 
on a small heated platten 

SWEET POTATO 

{Ipomaa Batatas ^ Lamarck) 

The sweet potato is very different in every way from 
our common white potato. It is not so nutritious, nor 
easily digested. It contains less starch and more sugar, 
gum, dextrin and pectose. It requires more care in 
cooking. If the skin is cut or broken before boiling, 
it absorbs water, and becomes moist, solid and indi- 
gestible. All varieties of sweet potatoes may be cooked 
after the same rules. Those grown in the far South 
contain a little more sugar and less starch than those 
grown in the North; for this reason they are best 
panned in the oven. They are good baked, but pasty 
and heavy when boiled. 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES 

Scrub the sweets, being careful not to break the skin. 
Soak them for twenty minutes in cold water. Drop 
them in a kettle of boiling water, and boil slowly until 
you can pierce them to the centre. They must not be 
very soft. Drain them, put them in a baking-pan and 
then in a hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes to dry. 
Peel quickly and serve in a hot uncovered dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCHY VEGETABLES 97 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES 

Cut hot boiled, peeled, sweet potatoes into halves. Put 
them in a baking-pan, flat side down. Baste them with 
melted butter, dust thickly with sugar, and brown 
quickly in a hot oven. 

PANNED IN THE OVEN 

Cut underdone boiled, peeled sweet potatoes in slices 
crosswise. Put a layer of these, half inch slices, in a 
baking-dish ; sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
then another layer of potatoes, and then sugar. Add 
a half cupful of boiling water, cover the dish and bake 
in a hot oven half an hour, or until soft and trans- 
parent. Serve in the baking-dish. 

SWEET POTATO PUFF 

Scoop the centres from six good-sized baked potatoes. 
Mash or put them through a vegetable press, add a 
tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of salt; beat 
over hot water until they are light. Fill the skins or 
shells. and bake fifteen in a hot oven. For luncheon, 
chopped nuts or hard-boiled eggs may be added and 
the mixture baked in a dish. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 
Proceed as in "puff." When the mixture is light, form 
into cylinders, dip in egg, roll in bread-crumbs and 
fry in hot, deep fat. 

GRILLED SWEET POTATOES 
Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes into slices a quarter of 
an inch thick. Brush each slice on both sides with 

7 



Digitized by 



Google 



98 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

butter ; place them in a wire broiler, and broil them 
over a clear fire, or under the oven jets in a gas stove ; 
when brown on one side turn and brown the other. 
Dish on a hot platter; dust with salt and pepper, and 
serve at once. 

FRENCH FRIED SWEETS 

Pare and cut raw sweet potatoes into slices of a 
quarter of an inch, lengthwise. Have two pans of deep 
fat, or fry them in a pan of cool fat first, then heat 
it and refry them. Put a few at a time in the frying 
basket, put them down into the cool fat (240° Fahr.) 
and cook them until the edges begin to brown; turn 
them out on a soft paper until you have them all fried. 
When ready to serve, heat the fat to 300"* Fahr. and 
refry a few at a time. If correctly done they will be 
dry and light, puffed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE GREEN OR SUCCULENT GROUP 
OF VEGETABLES 

GLOBE OR FRENCH ARTICHOKES 

(Cynara scolymus, Linn.) 

To Boil Artichokes. — I shall give general direc- 
tions for the boiling of artichokes, which will 
answer for the first preparation for all the artichoke 
recipes. One artichoke should be allowed to each 
person. The large French artichokes should be 
soaked in water over night before boiling. The 
smaller ones, which come from New Orleans, should 
be soaked for several hours, and even then they 
are not nearly so good as the imported French 
artichokes. 

After they have been soaked, put them into boil- 
ing water; boil rapidly for five minutes; drain. 
Square the tops, that is, take a sharp knife and cut 
the tops perfectly square, two inches from the base ; 
then slightly trim the bottoms. Tie a string around 
each artichoke to keep it in shape, throw into a 
kettle of boiling salted water and boil rapidly for a 
few minutes, then slowly for one hour until the 
leaves are tender. Please understand that the water 
must be boiling, but not rapidly. A tablespoonful 
of powdered charcoal put into the water gives them 
a brilliant green color. When the leaves are tender, 
lift each artichoke carefully with the skimmer, 
turning it upside down to drain. 

99 



Digitized by 



Google 



100 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

To serve these plain boiled, arrange them on a 
napkin on a heated platter. Serve one to each indi- 
vidual. Pass with them sauce Hollandaise. If 
served from a side table, put two tablespoonfuls of 
sauce Hollandaise on the same plate. 

To eat, strip off the outside leaves one at a time ; 
hold them with the finger and thumb by the top of 
the leaf; dip the bottom into the sauce, and, with 
the teeth, strip off the soft portion. Put the leaves 
on the side of the plate. When all the leaves have 
been taken off, remove the fuzzy portion of the 
"choke." Eat the bottom with a fork, dipping 
each piece into the sauce before putting it in the 
mouth. 

ARTICHOKES WITH SAUCE VINAIGRETTE 

Boil the artichokes as directed. When done, open 
each artichoke carefully and, with a spoon, remove 
the fuzzy centre. Put into each two tablespoonfuls 
of sauce vinaigrette. Dish them immediately on 
individual dishes, and send at once to the table. 

ARTICHOKES k la DUXELLB 

3 artichokes ^ can mushrooms 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoonfuls chopped 

I small onion or 2 shallots parsley 

I clove garlic 

Boil the artichokes, open them, and remove the 
fuzzy part. Put the butter in a saute-pan, add the 
onion, chopped; shake until the onion is soft, not 
brown; add the garlic, mashed, the mushrooms, 
chopped. When this is very hot, add a half cup of 
nut milk with a little salt and pepper. Stand the 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 101 

artichokes in a baking-dish, fill them with the mix- 
ture and stand in the oven until thoroughly hot. 
Send at once to the table. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

(Helianthus tuberosus, Linn.) 

These are the tubers of Italian sunflowers which 
grow wild in almost all parts of the United States 
and Canada. They are entirely different from the 
true artichoke. The name is no doubt a corruption 
of the Italian word meaning artichoke. They do 
not contain starch and only a trace of sugar, but 
are fairly rich in carbohydrates of the gum series. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, BOILED, WITH 
CREAM SAUCE 

Scrape the artichokes and throw at once into cold 
water to prevent discoloration. When ready to 
cook, cut into slices a half inch thick; put into a 
saucepan, cover with boiling water and boil twenty 
minutes, or until the artichokes are done, but not 
soft. Drain, turn them at once into a heated dish, 
and cover with white sauce. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES WITH BROWN SAUCE 

1 dozen artichokes J4 pint water or vegetable 

2 tablespoonfuls butter stock 

2 tablespoonfuls flour ^ I teaspoonful browning, 

I teaspoonful onion juice or kitchen bouquet 

I saltspoonful pepper I teaspoonful salt 

Pare the artichokes; boil as directed in preceding 
recipe. Put the butter in a saucepan ; add the flour; 



Digitized by 



Google 



102 MRS. rorbr's vegetable cookery 

mix; add the stock or water; stir until boiling; add 
the salt, onion juice and pepper; then the browning. 
Add the artichokes and stand over hot water for 
ten minutes and send to the table. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES k la VINAIGRETTE 

6 artichokes i chopped gherkin 

2 hard-boiled eggs 2 chopped olives 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar i tablespoonful capers 

2 tablespoonfuls oil % teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Peel and boil the artichokes for fifteen minutes; 
drain and throw at once into cold water ; when cold, 
drain again. Arrange neatly on a cold platter ; gar- 
nish with lettuce leaves. Remove the shells from 
the eggs and chop very fine. Add to them all the other 
ingredients ; mix ; pour the sauce over the artichokes 
and send at once to the table. 

ASPARAGUS 

(Asparagus oMcinalis, Linn.) 

Asparagus belongs to the lily family. We know 
very little about its food value. Served plain 
boiled, with English drawn butter, it may be con- 
sidered simply as a succulent vegetable. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS 

Wash and pare each shoot of asparagus, cutting off 
the tough end, or butt. When you have finished, 
throw the asparagus into cold water for thirty min- 
utes. Tie in small bundles and put them straight into 
a kettle of boiling salted water allowing a teaspoon- 
ful of salt to each quart of water. Boil for thirty 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 103 

minutes. While the asparagus is boiling, toast four 
slices of bread, trimming the crusts. Rub together 
two tablespoonfuls of butter and two tablespoon- 
f uls of flour ; add a half pint of the water in which 
the asparagus was boiled ; stir until the sauce boils ; 
add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt and a half 
saltspoonful of pepper; add the juice of half a lemon 
and strain the sauce into a heated sauceboat. Lift 
and drain the asparagus and arrange it crosswise 
on the toast on a platter, having the heads all one 
way. Send at once to the table. Asparagus may be 
boiled and served with sauce Hollandaise or 
English drawn butter. 

ASPARAGUS TIPS 

1 bundle asparagus i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i saltspoonful pepper 

Cut the tips in two-inch lengths, reserving the butts 
for cream of asparagus soup. Wash the tips and 
cut into small pieces not much larger than a mar- 
rowfat pea. Make at least four pieces from each 
two-inch length. Throw these into boiling salted 
water; boil a half hour; drain perfectly dry; turn 
at once into a heated dish; pour over the butter, 
melted and mixed with the salt and pepper. These 
are nice to serve with mock turkey, or make a nice 
accompaniment to bean croquettes. 

STEWED ASPARAGUS 

Wash, peel and cut into one-inch lengths a bundle 
of asparagus ; do not use, of course, the butt ends. 



Digitized by 



Google 



104 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

Soak these in cold water for a half hour ; drain and 
throw into a kettle of boiling salted water; boil 
slowly thirty minutes; drain again in a colander. 
Return them to the kettle; dust with a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and a 
tablespoonful of flour. Shake carefully and add a 
half pint of cream, or a half pint of milk and one 
tablespoonful of butter ; bring to boiling-point ; pour 
into a large vegetable dish, and send at once to the 
table. This dish may be garnished over the top 
with little squares of toasted bread, or, if served in 
a shallow, round dish, garnish the entire edge of 
the dish with triangular pieces of toast 

ASPARAGUS IN A BREAD-BOAT 

I bundle asparagus i stale loaf Vienna bread 

I pint milk Yolks of 6 eggs 

I tablespoonful butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the asparagus; soak it in cold water for a 
half hour; cut it into lengths of a half inch, using 
the very tender portions only, saving the butts for 
soup. Throw the tender parts into salted boiling 
water; boil thirty minutes, and drain. Shave the 
crust off the loaf of bread and cut the loaf either 
perfectly square or in the shape of a boat, hollow- 
ing out the centre sufficiently large to hold the 
asparagus. Brush the entire loaf with melted butter 
and stand it in a quick oven to brown. Put the 
milk in a double boiler. Beat the yolks of the egg^ 
until creamy; add carefully the hot milk, returning 
the mixture to the double boiler ; stir over the fire 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 105 

just a moment until it is sufficiently thick to coat 
a knife-blade. Dip a silver knife-blade into it; if 
the custard sticks to the blade, take it from the fire. 
Add the butter, cut into pieces; salt and pepper. 
Put the asparagus into the bread-boat, pour over the 
sauce. Stand the boat on a folded napkin on a 
platter and send at once to the table. 

BREADED ASPARAGUS 

1 bundle asparagus ^ pint bread-crumbs 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 4 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i teaspoonful salt 

I pint milk i saltspoonful pepper 

Peel and cut the asparagus into one-inch lengths; 
throw them into cold water for a half hour; then 
into boiling salted water and boil for thirty min- 
utes. Rub the butter and flour together; add the 
milk; stir until boiling; add the salt and pepper. 
Hard-boil the eggs; chop fine, and add them to the 
sauce. Put a layer of asparagus into the bottom of 
a baking-dish, then a layer of sauce, then a sprink- 
ling of bread-crumbs, and so continue until the 
ingredients are used, having the last layer of 
crumbs. Bake in a quick oven until a golden brown 
— about twenty minutes. 

This dish takes the place of meat and may be 
served at either dinner, luncheon or supper. An 
easy way is to boil two bundles of asparagus, 
having one served plain with sauce Hollandaise one 
day, and the other breaded for dinner or supper 
the next day. 



Digitized by 



Google 



106 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BEANS 

STKWED GREEN LIMA BEANS 
Throw the beans into boiling unsalted water; boil 
half an hour; drain and empty on a platter. Slip 
each bean out of its hull, the same as you would 
slip an almond from its skin. Put them back into 
a double boiler with sufficient water, milk or cocoa- 
nut milk to cover. Simmer gently twenty minutes. 
Season with salt, pepper and butter and serve. 

BAKED LIMA BEANS 

Wash fresh lima beans ; boil until tender ; slip out 
of the skin as directed in preceding recipe; cover 
with fresh water, boil until tender and press them 
through a colander. Add an equal quantity of 
mashed potatoes ; beat until light ; add a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a half cup of hot milk, salt and pepper. 
Turn this into a baking-dish and brown in the oven. 

STRING BEANS 

String the beans and then cut them crosswise into 
very short lengths, or cut them in three pieces 
lengthwise. Drop into cold water for half an hour ; 
drain and throw into boiling salted water; boil 
forty minutes. Drain again. Add a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a dash of pepper, and a tablespoonful 
of butter. Serve in a heated dish, uncovered. 

STRING BEANS WITH CREAM 

Boil precisely the same as in preceding recipe. Add 
to them, when done, a half cup of cream with the 
salt and pepper. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 107 

BEETS 

{Be/a vulgaris^ linn.) 

Beets contain sugar but no starch, and being the 
roots of plants are quite dense and woody. They 
are very indigestible uncooked. When cooked and 
served simply, they form an appetizing and a good 
waste food. 

TO BOIL BEETS 

Wash young, tender beets thoroughly; remove the 
tops. Immerse in cold water for half an hour; 
then put them into boiling unsalted water. Cook 
until you can easily pierce to the centre with a 
fork — about one hour. Drain quickly, cover with 
cold water. Drain again. Slip oflf the skins and 
slice the beets into the saucepan. Add a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar, a table- 
spoonful of butter and a dash of pepper. Shake 
over the fire until smoking hot. Serve in an 
uncovered dish. 

STEWED BEETS 

Boil the beets according to the preceding recipe. 
When done, skin and cut the beets into dice. Put 
them back into the saucepan with a pint of water. 
Let them stew fifteen minutes. Add one level 
tablespoonful of cornstarch moistened in a little 
cold water. Let this boil a moment; add a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and one 
tablespoonful of butter. Serve in a heated dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



108 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BEETS i la RORER 
Select uniform good-sized new beets. Wash and 
boil until about half done. Slip off the skins. Cut 
a slice from the root end, just enough to make them 
stand. Cut a thick slice from the leaf end, and with 
a vegetable scoop dig out the centre of the beet, 
leaving a wall a half inch thick. Stand them in a 
baking pan, with a little water, in the oven. Have 
ready for each six beets a pint of nicely seasoned 
and carefully cooked green peas, or you may use 
one can of peas. When ready to serve, dish the 
beets on a platter, fill with the peas, garnish the 
dish with sprigs of parsley and send to the table. 

PICKLED BEETS 

Plain boiled beets may be cut into slices, put into a 
jar, covered with vinegar, and used as a garnish. 
These are exceedingly nice for potato, cabbage, 
or string bean salad. They are, however, rather 
indigestible when eaten alone. Old beets may be 
used for pickling. 

CABBAGE 

Under this heading we shall consider all the varie- 
ties of the single species Brassica oleracea, Linn., 
cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts and kale. All 
these plants contain a volatile material, rich in 
hydrogen and sulphur, which is driven off by care- 
less cooking and also by overcooking. The odor 
is unpleasant and very penetrating, yet it can be 
entirely avoided by careful cooking. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GRfiEN VEGEtABLES 109 

Cabbage is a waste food, principally digested in 
the small intestine, and more easily digested raw 
than when overboiled. If carefully cooked in salted 
water it is, however, quite readily digested. 

A hard winter cabbage makes an excellent salad 
when served with French dressing. 

BOILED CABBAGE 

Trim off the outer leaves, cut the cabbage into 
halves, and, if the head is hard and dense, cut it into 
quarters. Soak in cold water for one hour; then 
shake the cabbage and put it into a kettle of boiling 
salted water, being careful to have sufficient water 
to cover the cabbage. Boil in an uncovered vessel 
for three-quarters of an hour until tender and 
white; drain; dish the pieces neatly in a shallow 
dish and pour over either English drawn butter or 
white sauce. 

LADIES' CABBAGE 

Cut a small, hard head of cabbage into ha;lves; 
remove the core and the harder portions, chop the 
remaining part of the head quite fine. Throw 
this into a kettle of boiling salted water, boil 
uncovered for thirty minutes; drain in a col- 
ander. Put the cabbage back in the saucepan, add 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, a tablespoonful of 
flour ; dust the flour over the cabbage ; stir carefully 
with a wooden spoon, and add a half pint of milk, 
a half teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of 
pepper. Stand this on the back part of the stove 
to simmer for ten minutes ; send to the table. 



Digitized by 



Google 



110 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE 
Prepare the cabbage according to the preceding 
recipe. Turn it into a baking-dish, cover the top 
with fine bread-crumbs, and bake in a quick oven 
twenty minutes. 

CABBAGE, RUSSIAN STYLE 

Select a hard head of cabbage and cut it into halves. 
Shave it down as you would for cold slaw. Put 
the shreds into very cold water to soak for one or 
two hours; drain; put into a kettle of boiling 
salted water and boil, uncovered, fifteen minutes; 
drain in a colander. Return the cabbage to the 
kettle, add a half pint of good cream, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Push 
the kettle to the back part of the stove to simmer 
gently for ten minutes. Serve in a shallow dish; 
garnish with triangular pieces of toast. 

CHARLESTON CABBAGE 

1 small hard head cabbage 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar i teaspoonful salt 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar i saltspoonful pepper 

H pint thick cream i egg 

Cut the cabbage into eighths; soak in cold water 

for one hour; then put it into an uncovered kettle 

of boiling salted water; boil rapidly for twenty 

minutes. While this is boiling, beat the egg until 

light ; add to it the cream. Put the oil and vinegar 

into a saucepan, mix, and add the sugar, salt and 

pepper ; stir constantly over the fire until it reaches 

the boiling-point. Then stir it quickly into the egg 

and cream. Lay the cabbage carefully in this sauce ; 

put it over the fire until very hot, and serve. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 111 

GERMAN SOUR CABBAGE 

2 quarts chopped cabbage Y^ cup vinegar • 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Soak the cabbage in cold water for an hour ; drain ; 
place it in an uncovered kettle of boiling salted 
water ; cook twenty minutes ; drain and return it to 
the kettle. Add the vinegar; bring the cabbage to 
boiling-point and cook five minutes. Add the 
butter, salt and pepper. 

COLD SLAW 

I small hard bead cabbage i tablespoonful butter 

54 cup milk i tablespoonful cornstarch 

Yolks of 2 eggs I bay leaf 

I tablespoonful chopped i saltspoonful celery seed 

onion H teaspoonful salt 
4 tablespoonfuls vinegar i saltspoonful pepper 

Divide the head of cabbage into halves and shred 
it very fine. Cover with cold water and soak for at 
least an hour ; in warm weather it is better to put a 
piece of ice in the water. While the cabbage is 
soaking, heat the milk in a double boiler. Moisten 
the cornstarch with a little cold milk ; add it to the 
hot milk and cook until it thickens. Add the yolks 
of the eggs, beaten; cook a moment longer; take 
from the fire and add the salt and pepper. Add the 
chopped onion, the celery seed (or you can use a 
little chopped celery), and the bay leaf to the 
vinegar. Boil rapidly until reduced one-half. 
When cool, strain this into the sauce. Add the 
butter, cut into bits, and stand aside to cool. When 
ready to serve, drain the cabbage by wringing it 
in a towel. Then mix it with the dressing; turn it 



Digitized by 



Google 



112 MRS. rorer's vegbtablb cookery 

into a round dish, garnish with capers, if you have 
them, or chopped olives. This will take the place 
at dinner of a green vegetable and a salad. 

SOUR CREAM SLAW 

1 head cabbage ^ cup thick sour cream 
a tablespoonfuls vinegar ^ teaspoonful salt 

2 eggs I saltspoonful pepper 

Cut and soak the cabbage as directed in preceding 
recipe; drain and dry it. Put the vinegar into a 
saucepan and bring it to the boiling-point; add the 
eggs, beaten without separating, until light, and the 
sour cream. Stir the mixture over the fire until it 
thickens. Take from the fire, add the salt and 
pepper. Put the cabbage into the sauce, mix, and 
turn it into a shallow vegetable dish. This may be 
served warm or cold. 

CABBAGE i U FLAMANDE 

I head red or purple cab- i good-sized onion 

bage I saltspoonful ground doves 

I tablespoonful butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Cut the cabbage into halves, and soak it in cold 

water an hour. Then shave it as you would for 

cold slaw. Throw it into boiling salted water and 

cook in an uncovered vessel for twenty minutes; 

drain ; put the cabbage in a chopping bowl and chop 

rather fine. Return it to the saucepan; add the 

butter, the onion, grated, the cloves, salt and 

pepper. Cover the saucepan and stand it on the 

back part of the stove where it will keep very hot, 

not boiling, for three-quarters of an hour. Add a 

tablespoonful of vinegar and send to the table. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREBN VEGETABLES 113 

CABBAGE HONGROISE 

I red or purple cabbage 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

4 tablespoonfuls olive oil i onion 
I green pepper i teaspoonful salt 

I tablespoonful paprika 

Soak the cabbage in cold water, having cut the 
head into halves. Place the flat side on a table and 
cut the cabbage down into slices of a half inch. 
Put the oil in a saucepan ; when hot, put in the cab- 
bage. Cook slightly, then turn and cook it on the 
other side. Add the pepper and onion, chopped 
fine, the salt, vinegar and paprika. Cover the pan 
and draw it to the back part of the stove where it 
will simmer for an hour. 

RED CABBAGE, DUTCH FASHION 

I good-sized cabbage 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 large onion, chopped Yi cup cream or milk 

2 large tart apples i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Trim the cabbage ; cut in into halves and soak it in 
cold water for an hour; drain and shred it fine. 
Turn it into a kettle of boiling salted water; boil 
rapidly uncovered for five minutes and drain. Put 
the butter and onion in a saucepan; shake a few 
moments, add the cabbage and the apples, peeled, 
cored and sliced; add the salt and pepper. Stand 
the saucepan on the back of the stove for thirty 
minutes, tossing the cabbage three or four times. 
Add the cream or milk and turn into a heated 
vegetable dish. 

TO MAKE SAUERKRAUT 

Select large, hard, white heads of cabbage; shred 
them on a slaw-cutter. Line the bottom and sides 

8 



Digitized by 



Google 



114 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

of a clean cask or a barrel with the outside leaves 
of the cabbage. Put in the bottom a layer of 
shredded cabbage, three inches thick, sprinkle over 
four ounces of good salt, and with a heavy wooden 
pestle mash it down. Put in a second layer of 
cabbage, then salt, and so continue until the cask 
is full. Cover the top with the outside leaves of 
the cabbage. On top of this put a round board, 
about two inches smaller than the top of the cask, 
and on this, a heavy weight. A good clean stone is 
best. Allow this to stand in a warm place to fer- 
ment. When fermentation begins, the cabbage will 
sink, and you will have considerable liquid on the 
surface. Take any scum from the surface ; cover the 
cask and keep it in a cool, dry cellar. Sauerkraut 
will be ready for use in about two weeks. Each 
time you remove the board to get a portion of the 
sauerkraut, be careful to replace it. 

TO COOK SAUERKRAUT 

Wash the sauerkraut in several cold waters ; throw 
it into a kettle of boiling water ; add a sliced apple. 
Cook, uncovered, about one hour; drain; dish on 
a platter, garnish with small bean croquettes alter- 
nated with hard-boiled yolks of eggs. 

SAVOY 

(Borecole, Linn.) 

This is a variety of common cabbage with a loose 
head composed of very curly or wrinkled leaves. It 
is considered more delicate than ordinary cabbage. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 115 

After the head is scalded and opened it looks very 
much like a huge rose; the leaves never become 
white or bleached. Savoy is best stuffed or pre- 
pared as Turkish cabbage. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Cauliflower and broccoli are the flowerets of the 
plant. Cauliflower is always white ; broccoli is both 
white and purple, but in this country the name is 
generally applied to a loose, irregular head of 
cauliflower. The same rules in cooking apply to 
both. 

TO BOIL CAULIFLOWER 
Trim the outside leaves; soak in cold water for 
about an hour ; drain and tie it in a piece of cheese- 
cloth; drop it, stem down, into a large kettle of 
boiling salted water ; boil uncovered for thirty min- 
utes. Be careful not to overcook cauliflower, or 
it will become watersoaked and lose both its flavor 
and color. When tender, lift it carefully, drain 
thoroughly, and turn it out into a round dish. Pour 
over it sauce Hollandaise, English drawn butter or 
white sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER au GRATIN 

Boil the cauliflower according to the preceding 
recipe. When done and drained, break it very care- 
fully into the little flowerets. Arrange them neatly 
in a baking-dish, pour over a half pint of white 
sauce, dust thickly with grated cheese, and brown 
in a quick oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



116 MRS. RORER'S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

CAULIFLOWEI^ HUNGARIAN FASHION 

1 cauliflower 4 tablespoonfuls dry 

2 tablespoonfuls butter bread-crumbs 
i tablespoon ful finely }^ teaspoon ful salt 

chopped onion i saltspoonful pepper 

Boil the cauliflower as directed in first recipe ; drain, 
and place in a round, shallow vegetable dish. Put 
the butter in a shallow frying-pan; add the onion 
and dry bread-crumbs; cook quickly, shaking all 
the while; add the salt and pepper. Spread this 
over the top of the cauliflower, and send at once 
to the table. 

COLLARDS 

Collards are cabbage in which. the fleshy leaves are 
not formed into a head but are long like cos lettuce. 
This variety is grown principally in the southern 
part of the United States where they do not have 
sufficient cold weather to head or harden cabbage. 
Collards are usually boiled in salted water and served 
according to any of the rules for cooking kale, spinach 
or chopped cabbage. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

These are perhaps the most delicate of all the 
cabbage species. To be quite perfect they should 
not be larger than an English walnut. They are 
sold in the market by the quart, and are seasonable 
in the fall and early winter. 

TO BOIL BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

Trim neatly and soak in cold water for an hour; 
throw into boiling salted water and cook in an 
uncovered vessel for thirty minutes. Drain in a 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 117 

colander. If they lose their color and turn a sort 
of yellowish green and become soft they have been 
cooked too long. They should be a bright green 
and very delicate. Turn them into a heated dish 
and pour over either plain melted butter, white 
sauce, or sauce Hollandaise. 

KALE 

There are two varieties of kale, the green and the 
blue. Both varieties are sold, in many markets, 
under the name of "sprouts." Kale is the least 
nutritious of all the cabbage species. It forms, 
however, very good spring greens. 

TO BOIL KALE 

Wash carefully a half peck of kale; cut the leaves 
from the roots and wash again ; soak in cold water 
for an hour, then lift and shake them, and throw 
them into a kettle of boiling salted water. Cook 
three-quarters of an hour in an uncovered vessel, 
.stirring three or four times. Drain in a colander, 
and, when dry, chop fine. Return to the kettle ; add 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, a teaspoonful of salt 
and a saltspoonful of pepper. When the mixture is 
hot, heap it into a vegetable dish. Garnish the 
edges of the dish with triangular pieces of toast and 
the centre with hard-boiled eggs. 

KALE AS GREENS 

Wash the kale through several cold waters ; cut off 
roots and stems leaving just the leaves. Select a 
large kettle and put in the bottom a pint of boiling 
water. Shake the water from the kale, throw it 



Digitized by 



Google 



118 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

into this hot kettle, sprinkle over a teaspoonful of 
salt, cover the kettle and stand it on the back of the 
stove for fifteen minutes. Then remove the lid 
and boil rapidly fifteen minutes longer. Throw this 
into a colander. When the greens are thoroughly 
drained they are ready to serve. 

KOHL-RABI 

Kohl-rabi, also called turnip cabbage, stores its 
nourishment just above the ground in a turnip-like 
swelling of the stem, from which long narrow leaves 
spring. It is free from starch and may, therefore, 
be sliced and eaten raw in the place of radishes. 
It is slightly more nutritious than the common 
white turnip. 

TO BOIL KOHL-RABI 
Remove the leaves and cut a thick paring from the 
outside of a dozen kohl-rabi. Cut the flesh into 
slices of half an inch, throw into boiling salted 
water, and boil in an uncovered vessel for thirty 
minutes; drain; turn into a heated vegetable dish 
and pour over either sauce Hollandaise, white sauce, 
or butter glaze. 

CARROTS 

Carrots, when young, are delicate and sweet ; when 
old they are hard and rather strong in flavor. Full 
grown, they contain some sugar and a trace of 
starch. The young, succulent roots, however, con- 
tain but little more than water and mineral matter. 
They have a trace of iron and are said to be 
anti-scorbutic. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 119 

STEWED CARROTS 

If your carrots are young, scrape them and throw 
them into cold water ; if full grown, scrape and cut 
them into squares. When ready to cook, throw 
them into a kettle of boiling water; cook just below 
the boiling-point in an uncovered vessel for three- 
quarters of an hour ; drain ; turn them into a heated 
dish and pour over either brown sauce, white sauce, 
or sauce Hollandaise. 

GLACED CARROTS 

1 dozen young carrots i tablespoonful butter 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar ^ teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Scrape the carrots. Boil them in unsalted water 
until tender — about three-quarters of an hour ; drain 
perfectly dry. Put the butter, sugar, salt and 
pepper into a saucepan; shake over the fire until 
melted; add the carrots; shake the carrots until 
they are thoroughly covered with the glaze. Turn 
them at once into a heated dish. 

CARROT JAM 

4 pounds young carrots 2 oranges 
2 pounds sugar i ounce green ginger root, or 

I lemon i tablespoonful ground ginger 

2 bay leaves 

Wash and scrape the carrots; soak them in cold 

water half an hour. Throw them into a kettle of 

boiling salted water and cook until tender; drain; 

when dry, mash the carrots through a colander. 

Put the sugar, with a pint of water, into a granite 

or porcelain kettle ; bring to boiling-point and skim. 

Then add the carrot pulp, the grated yellow rind 



Digitized by 



Google 



120 MRS. rorer's veobtablb cookery 

of the lemon and oranges, the bay leaves, the 
ginger root scraped and sliced, and then the strained 
juice of the lemon and oranges. Simmer gently 
until it is the consistency of orange marmalade. 
Put away in jelly tumblers. 

CELERY 

HOW TO SERVE RAW 

Trim off the roots nicely. Take off the outside 
stalks, trimming the root even with the remaining 
portion; split the head into quarters from the root 
toward the ends. Throw these into cold water for 
half an hour; shake dry and serve in a flat celery- 
dish with cracked ice. 

TO FRINGE CELERY 

Select the tender white portions of the celery and 
cut them into lengths of two inches. Slit each piece 
dov/n about half an inch on both ends; then cross 
it. Throw the pieces into ice water. If these are 
properly cut, they will curl until the strips meet in 
the centre. Fringed celery is nice for garnishing 
mock chicken, cabbage or celery salad. 

STEWED CELERY 

2 whole heads celery Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoonfc.ls butter ^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls flour A dash of pepper 

Divide the stalks, using only the outside green por- 
tions; in other words, save the very heart to eat 
raw or as a salad. If your family is sufficiently 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 121 

large to use a greater quantity for stewing, take a 
greater number of heads, always saving the centres. 
After the celery is washed, cut it into lengths of 
one inch. For this recipe you should have one quart 
of cut celery. Put this into a saucepan and cover 
with boiling water; add a teaspoonful of salt; boil 
rapidly for thirty-five minutes, or until tender; 
drain, saving the water. Rub the butter and flour 
together; add a half pint of the celery water and stir 
until boiling; add the salt and pepper; shake over 
the fire ; add the yolks of the eggs, beaten, then the 
celery, and turn at once into a heated dish. 

CELERY au JUS 

Follow the preceding recipe exactly, omitting the 
eggs. This makes a nice accompaniment to mock 
chicken or turkey, or to serve with any of the nut 
dishes. 

CORN 

GREEN CORN BOILED IN THE HUSK 

Remove the outside husks of good corn. Loosen 
the inside husks and remove the silk, then roll the 
husks back into place, and with a sharp knife cut 
off the ends and also the butt of the com. Throw 
these into a large kettle of boiling water; boil 
rapidly for five minutes. Serve on a folded napkin 
in the husks. 

PLAIN BOILED CORN 

To be perfectly good, corn should be cooked the 
same day that it is picked. Remove the husk and 



Digitized by 



Google 



122 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

the silk; throw the corn into boiling water; boil 
five minutes. Long boiling destroys the flavor and 
the sweetness of the corn. 

STEWED CORN 

Boil the corn two minutes. Then score down each 
row of grains; press out every particle of pulp of 
the corn, leaving the little covering of the grain 
on the cob. Put this into a double boiler, season it 
with a palatable amount of butter, salt and pepper, 
reheat and serve. 

CORN k la RORER 

1 doz. fresh ears corn i tablespoonful butter 
yi cup cream or milk i teaspoon ful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Husk and remove the silk from the corn. Draw the 
corn slitter down the cob, slitting each row of 
grains. With a dull knife press out all the pulp. 
Put this in a double boiler, add the cream or milk, 
the butter, salt and pepper; stir and cook over 
boiling water for thirty minutes. 

CORN FRITTERS 

6 ears corn i teaspoonful baking- 

% pint milk powder 

y2 pint flour J4 teaspoonful salt 

2 eggs I saltspoonful pepper 

Grate or press out the corn; add the yolks of the 
eggs, salt, pepper, milk and then the flour, sifted 
with the baking-powder. Beat thoroughly; fold in 
the well-beaten whites; fry in deep fat by table- 
spoonfuls. These should be round, not flat. Serve 
hot. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 123 

CORN PUDDING 

12 cars com H pint flour 

4 eggs I teaspoonful salt 

y^ pint milk i saltspoonful pepper 

Score and press out the corn ; add the yolks of the 
eggs and flour, then the milk, salt and pepper, and 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs ; turn at once into 
a shallow greased baking-pan. Bake in a moder- 
ately quick oven half an hour. This makes a very 
nice luncheon or supper dish. It has considerable 
meat value. Canned corn may be used. 

CORN OYSTERS 

6 ears com 6 tablespoonfuls flour 

4 eggs I teaspoonful salt 

J^ saltspoonful pepper 

Separate the eggs. Score and press out the corn; 

add the flour and the yolks of the eggs, the salt 

and pepper, and then fold in the well-beaten whites. 

Fry by tablespoonfuls in a small quantity of hot 

fat in a shallow pan; drain on brown paper, and' 

serve. 

SUCCOTASH 

Boil for three minutes a dozen ears of corn. Cut 

the corn from the cob, taking a very small piece 

from the top of each grain, then press out the pulp. 

Mix this with an equal quantity of nicely cooked 

lima beans; add butter, salt and pepper; reheat 

and serve. 

ESCALLOPED CORN 

6 ears boiled com i tablespoonful butter 

^ pint bread-crumbs i teaspoonful salt 

^ pint milk i saltspoonful pepper 

This is a very good way to reheat left over corn. 

Cut the corn from the ear ; put a layer in the bottom 



Digitized by 



Google 



124 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

of a baking-dish, then a layer of bread-crumbs and 
a dusting of salt and pepper ; then another kyer of 
corn, and so continue until the dish is filled. Pour 
over the milk, put the butter in pieces over the 
top, dust again with bread-crumbs, and bake in a 
quick oven twenty minutes. 

STEWED CORN IN TOMATOES 

6 good-sized tomatoes i tablespoonful butter 

3 ears boiled corn J^ teaspoonful salt 

y2 cup milk I saltspoonful pepper 

Cut off the stem end of the tomatoes and scoop 
out the seeds and the core. Dust the tomatoes 
lightly with salt and pepper and stand in a baking- 
pan in the oven. Cut the corn from the cob; put 
it in a saucepan; add the milk, butter, salt and 
pepper and stand it on the back of the stove. When 
the tomatoes are nearly done, take them from the 
oven; fill them with the hot corn and return them 
to the oven for about five or ten minutes. Lift 
each to a small serving-plate. 

CORN LOUISIANA 

I dozen ears corn 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

6 large tomatoes, or i teaspoonful salt 

I pint solid canned tomato i saltspoonful pepper 

Score down the centre of each row of grains and 
press the corn from the cob. Peel the tomatoes; 
cut them into halves and squeeze out the seeds; 
cut each half into quarters and put in a saucepan 
with the butter, salt and pepper. When boiling hot, 
add the corn; cover the saucepan, and cook over a 
hot fire for fifteen minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 125 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES 

I pint grated corn 2 eggs 

H cup milk Yz cup flour 

H teaspoonful salt 

Put the corn into a bowl ; add the yolks of the eggs, 
well beaten, the milk, salt and flour. When well 
mixed fold in the well-beaten whites of the eggs 
and bake by spoonfuls on a hot griddle. If you 
cannot handle these without tearing, add just a 
little more flour. The smallest quantity of flour, 
however, is best. 

CORN BREAKFAST GEMS 

I pint grated com 3 cups flour 

I pint milk 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 

3 eggs powder 

y2 teaspoonful salt 

Put the corn in a bowl ; add the yolks of the eggs, 

beaten, and the milk and salt; beat well; stir in 

the baking-powder and flour sifted together; then 

fold in the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Bake 

in greased gem-pans in a moderately quick oven 

thirty minutes. 

DRIED CORN, No. i 

Score the corn down the centre of each row of 
grains and press out the pulp. Put this pulp in a 
thin layer over the bottom of a baking-pan. Stand 
it in a cool oven, with the door open, or you can 
dry it in the sun. If the oven is just right, three 
hours will dry it. Stir it as soon as it begins to 
dry. Great care must be taken or the mixture will 
sour before it dries. When this is dry, it will be in 
chunks, like tapioca. 



Digitized by 



Google 



126 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

DRIED CORN, No. a 

Husk perfectly fresh corn and remove the silk; 
throw the ears into a kettle of boiling water; boil 
two minutes; cut off the tops of the grains and 
press out the pulp ; dry either in the sun or in the 
oven. First cooking removes the danger of souring. 

TO COOK DRIED CORN 

Measure out the desired quantity of corn; cover it 
with cold milk and stand it in a cold place over 
night. Cook in a double boiler at least one hour. 
Season with butter, salt and pepper. 

TO SALT CORN 

Corn may be kept for winter use by putting into a 
cask a layer of corn and then a layer of salt. Have 
a perfectly clean wooden cask. Cut the corn from 
the cob ; put in a layer of corn, one inch thick, then 
a layer of good salt a half inch thick. From time 
to time add corn and salt until the cask is nearly 
full. Then cover with grapevine or cabbage leaves. 
On top of this, place a small round board, and on 
this a weight; a good-sized perfectly clean stone 
will answer. 

TO COOK SALTED CORN 

Take out the desired quantity of corn, being sure 
to replace the board and the stone ; wash it well in 
cold water ; soak it over night in fresh clean water ; 
drain ; put it over the fire in boiling water and let 
it boil slowly for half an hour. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 127 

CUCUMBERS 

CUCUMBERS WITH CREAM SAUCE 

Pare good-sized cucumbers; cut into halves; scoop 
out the seeds; cut each half into three, crosswise; 
soak in cold water for an hour or two. When ready 
to cook, throw into boiling salted water ; boil until 
transparent and tender, about thirty minutes ; drain. 
Carefully put them at once into a heated dish; 
pour over a half pint of white sauce. 

CUCUMBERS WITH SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Boil as directed in preceding recipe. When 
thoroughly drained, dish and cover with sauce 
Hollandaise. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS 

Cut good-sized cucumbers into slices a half inch 
thick, crosswise; dust with salt, dip in beaten egg, 
roll in bread-crumbs, and saute in a small quantity 
of hot fat, browning on one side, then turning and 
browning on the other. These are nice for lunch- 
eon. They may be served with stewed tomatoes 
or lima beans. 

EGGPLANT 

(Sohnum melongena, Linn., variety esculentum) 

Eggplant belongs to the Svlanacece, the same family 
to which the potato, tomato, tobacco and peppers 
belong. The "eggs" contain very little nourish- 
ment, but when well dressed form an agreeable 
waste or bulk food* 



Digitized by 



Google 



128 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BOILED EGGPLANT 

Throw the eggplant into a kettle of unsalted boil- 
ing water ; boil rapidly for thirty minutes ; take out 
and peel; cut into halves; put each half in a piece 
of cheesecloth; drop into a kettle of fresh boiling 
salted water; cook for thirty minutes until tender. 
Lift carefully, turn on to a heated dish, pour over 
sauce Hollandaise, and send at once to the table. 

BAKED EGGPLANT 

I eggplant i tablespoonful butter 

y2 cup bread-crumbs i teaspoon ful salt 

I hard-boiled egg A dash of pepper 

Boil the eggplant in unsalted water for twenty min- 
utes; take out, cut into halves and scoop out the 
centre, leaving a wall a half inch thick. Chop the 
portion that you have scooped out, mix it with the 
bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, butter, melted, and the 
^^%, chopped fine. Dust the eggplant itself with 
salt and pepper and put in the stuffing. Brush the 
top with melted butter and bake in a quick oven 
thirty minutes. Serve on a folded napkin. 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

Peel a good-sized eggplant; cut it into slices of a 
quarter inch. Dust with salt and pepper; dip in 
beaten ^%'g ; roll in bread-crumbs and saute in very 
hot fat. When they are brown oil one side, turn 
and brown on the other. Dry on brown paper. 
Eggplant may be fried in deep fat, providing the 
slices are cut thin, then into halves, and well 
covered with egg and bread-crumbs. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 129 

HORSERADISH 

(Nasturtium Armcracia, Fries) 

Horseradish is, as a rule, used as a seasoning to 
sauces, or to various cold mock meat dishes. The 
edible portion consists of a long tap root containing 
aromatic principles, and is as pungent cts black mustard. 
It is sometimes stewed and served with cream sauce. 
It has no food value. 

OKRA 

(Hibiscus esculentum, Linn.) 

The young pods, the edible portion of this plant, are 
rich in mucilage. In the South they form one of the 
most important ingredients of gumbo soup. They 
are also used to thicken rich stews. The Creoles 
use them in the genuine Creole sauce. In many 
places in the North okra is called gumbo from its 
connection with the gumbo soup of the South. 

STEWED OKRA 

I quart young tender okra i teaspoonful butter 
I pint water i teaspoonful salt 

I tablespoon ful vinegar i saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the okra and cut into slices crosswise. Put 
into a porcelain or granite kettle; iron discolors 
okra. Add the water and the salt; cover the kettle 
and cook slowly for thirty minutes, or until the okra 
is perfectly tender; add the butter, vinegar and 
pepper, and serve. This is a very nice accompani- 
ment to mock chicken, in fact, to any of the nut 
dishes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



130 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

OKRA WITH RICE 

I quart tender okra V2 pint rice 
4 large tomatoes, or i pint water 

I pint canned tomatoes i large onion 

I large green pepper i teaspoonful salt 

Wash and cut the okra into slices; peel the tomatoes 
and cut into halves ; press out the seeds ; cut the flesh 
into squares. Put tomatoes with the okra into a 
granite kettle; add the water, salt, pepper and onion, 
cut into very thin slices ; cover the kettle, and simmer 
on the back part of the stove forty-five minutes. 
While this is cooking, wash and boil the rice. Have 
it very dry. When ready to serve, arrange the rice in 
a pyramid on a platter; pour around the okra. This 
is a nice accompaniment to any of the nut or bean 
dishes, and may also be served with eggs. 

OKRA WITH TOMATOES 

I pint tender okra i tablespoonful butter or 

I pint canned tomato oil 

I small onion i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash and slice the okra. Put it, with the tomatoes, 
into a granite kettle; bring to boiling-point; add the 
salt, pepper, onion, and simmer gently an hour. 
Stir in carefully the butter, and serve at once. 

FRICASSEE OF OKRA WITH CORN 

To the above recipe add the pulp from a dozen ears 
of corn. This combination scorches very easily. Cook 
it either in a double boiler or over a very slow fire. 
A chopped red or green pepper may also be added. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 131 

OKRA SUCCOTASH 

I quart tender okra 3 large tomatoes 

y2 pint young lima beans i tablespoonful butter 

^ pint grated corn i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Peel the tomatoes; cut into halves and press out the 
seeds; cut into squares and put them into a granite 
saucepan. Wash and slice the okra; add it and the 
salt and pepper to the tomatoes; cover and simmer 
gently for fifteen minutes. Add the young lima beans ; 
cover and simmer twenty minutes longer. Add the 
corn; cook about fifteen or twenty minutes longer; 
then add the butter and it is ready to serve. If canned 
vegetables are used in place of fresh allow a pint of 
okra, a half pint of lima beans, a half can of com, a 
half pint of tomatoes. 

ONIONS 

{Allium cepa, Linn.) 
To this family also belong leeks, garlic, chives and 
shallots. There are many varieties of onions, all more 
or less alike. The odor and the flavor are due to a 
volatile material, rich in sulphur, which is dissipated 
and thrown- off by careless cooking. Onions, like 
other green vegetables, must be cooked in boiling 
salted water. Like cabbage and other vegetables con- 
taining sulphur, they must be cooked in an uncovered 
vessel. Onions are wholesome, and when well cooked 
are rather easy of digestion and are stimulating to the 
intestines. 

To keep onions for winter use, place them in a 
light dry place, where there is not the slightest danger 



Digitized by 



Google 



132 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

of freezing. They must, however, be kept cold, but 
freezing causes immediate decay. 

BOILED ONIONS 

Peel the onions, and after you think they are well 
peeled, remove another outside covering. Throw them 
into cold water for half an hour and then into a kettle 
of boiling salted water; boil in an uncovered vessel 
three-quarters of an hour, or until the onions are per- 
fectly tender. Drain in a colander; return to the 
saucepan and put back over the fire to dry. Turn 
into an uncovered vegetable dish and pour over white 
sauce. If the onions are not thoroughly dry, the 
water will exude and dilute the sauce. Onions are 
usually served as an accompaniment to mock turkey 
or chicken, or any of the various nut dishes. 

BOILED SPANISH ONIONS 

Peel one good-sized Spanish onion; cut it into slices 
a half inch thick ; soak in cold water a half hour and 
cook according to the preceding recipe. The water in 
which onions are boiled may be saved for onion soup, 
sauce Soubise or vegetable stock. 

SPANISH ONIONS WITH BROWN SAUCE 

1 large or i tablespoonful flour 

2 medium- sized Spanish i teaspoon ful kitchen 

onions bouquet 

I tablespoonful butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Peel the onions and cut into slices k half inch thick. 
Throw them into cold water for half an hour; then 
put into a kettle of boiling salted water and cook 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 133 

uncovered for three-quarters of an hour; drain, sav- 
ing the water. Rub the butter and flour together; 
add a half pint of the water in which the onions have 
been boiled, stir until boiling; add the kitchen bou- 
quet, the salt and pepper. Dish the onions, pour over 
the brown sauce, and serve. 

ONION GLACE 

6 medium-sized onions H pint vegetable stock 

4 tablespoonfuls olive oil i teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful flour i saltspoonful pepper 

% nutmeg grated 

Peel the onions and cut them in thin slices. Put the 
oil in a shallow frying-pan ; when hot, add the onions. 
Shake until slightly brown. Take out with a skim- 
mer, and put into a saucepan. Add the flour to the 
oil, the stock, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Stir until boil- 
ing and strain over the onions. Cover and simmer on 
the back part of the stove three-quarters of an hour. 
If it is in celery season, add also a half cup of chopped 
celery. These are nice to serve with beans or nut 
steaks. 

ONIONS au SUPREME 

6 medium-sized onions, or 4 tablespoonfuls cream 

2 Spanish onions Yolks of two eggs 
2 tablespoonfuls butter ^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i saltspoonful pepper 

Peel the onions carefully and cut them into slices a 
half inch thick; throw into a kettle of boiling salted 
water and cook without covering for thirty minutes; 
drain, saving the water. Rub together the butter and 
flour ; add a half pint of the water in which the onions 
were boiled; stir until boiling and then add the salt 
and pepper. Take from the fire and add the yolks 



Digitized by 



Google 



134 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

of the eggs beaten with the cream. Stir over the fire 
just a moment. Be careful or it will curdle. Dish 
the onions and pour over the sauce. Garnish the dish 
with triangular pieces of toast and send at once to the 
table. 

GREEN PEAS 

Green peas are rich in water; they contain a little 
mineral matter and some sugar. In the daily bill of 
fare they are counted as succulent vegetables. They 
are palatable and easy of digestion. For invalids and 
children they should be pressed through a colander 
to remove the hulls; they may then be reheated and 
served the same as spinach. They are principally 
digested in the small intestine. 

TO BOIL GREEN PEAS 

The sweetness and flavor of green peas depend entirely 
upon careful cooking. Shell the peas and throw them 
into cold water for twenty minutes; drain; put into 
a kettle of boiling salted water. It is not necessary 
that you have more water than will cover the peas. 
Boil in an uncovered vessel for twenty minutes, or 
until the peas are tender. Be sure that they boil con- 
tinuously. If they are one moment below the boiling- 
point they will lose their color and become watery. 
When done, drain ; return to the kettle, add a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar to each pint of peas, a half teaspoonful 
of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, four tablespoonfuls 
of cream, or a tablespoonful of butter, and two table- 
spoonfuls of milk. Shake, rather than stir, until the 
peas are smoking hot. Serve at once in uncovered dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 135 

GREEN PEAS WITH CREAM SAUCE 

Boil the peas according to the preceding recipe. After 
they have been drained, turn into a vegetable dish and 
pour over a half pint of cream or white sauce. 

PEAS IN TURNIP CUPS 

Select young turnips ; pare them carefully ; cut off the 
stem end and scoop out the flesh of the turnip, leaving 
a wall a half inch thick. Soak these cups in cold water 
for a half hour and then throw them into boiling 
unsalted water ; cook in an uncovered vessel until they 
are white and tender. Lift each with a skimmer and 
drain it carefully. Arrange on a platter and fill with 
nicely seasoned boiled peas. 

PEAS, ENGLISH FASHION 

Cook the peas as directed in the first recipe, adding a 
sprig of mint to the peas when they are first put over 
the fire. 

SUGAR PEAS 

Top and tail the peas, but do not shell them. Soak 
in cold water an hour ; drain ; cover with boiling water, 
adding a teaspoonful of salt to each quart. Boil in an 
uncovered saucepan thirty minutes. Drain, saving the 
water for soup or stock. Add to each quart of peas 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, a half cup of milk, a 
half teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Shake until very hot, and serve. 



Digitized by 



Google 



136 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

TO DRY YOUNG GREEN PEAS 

Shell the peas; throw into a kettle of boiling water; 
boil rapidly two minutes ; drain ; spread in a thin layer 
in tin-pans. Stand in a warm oven ; shake frequently 
until thoroughly dry. Put these into cheesecloth bags 
that have been lined with waxed paper and keep in a 
dry place. Soak one hour before cooking, 

PEPPERS 

This name is given to several varieties of the genus 
capsicum, the commonest of which is capsicum annum 
(Linn.). Paprika is made from a brilliant red variety, 
dried and ground. The coloring matter is very solu- 
ble, which makes the paprika valuable for the coloring 
of soups, sauces and salads. The large sweet varieties, 
stuffed or stewed, make an agreeable succulent or green 
vegetable. The chili or hot varieties are used by the 
Mexicans for seasoning such dishes as chili con-came 
and tamales. In some parts of the United States pep- 
pers are stuffed with cabbage, pickled in vinegar, and 
called mangoes. 

Tabasco oil, made by putting small, very hot red 
peppers in olive oil, is an exceedingly pleasant season- 
ing for cream sauces or salad dressings. One ounce 
in a quart of oil will be quite sufficient. Be careful 
not to use too great a quantity, as the oil is very 
pungent. 

Sweet peppers, both red and yellow, are dried or 
canned for winter use. They can be purchased at any 
first-class grocery store under the name of pimientos, 
or Spanish sweet peppers. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 137 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

6 large sweet peppers i tablespoon ful butter 

I pint boiled rice i medium-sized onion 

I teaspoonful salt 

Cut the tops from the peppers and remove the seeds. 
Add to the rice the onion, chopped, and salt. Wash 
the peppers, stuff them with the boiled rice, put 
on the tops and stand them in a baking-pan. Cover 
the bottom of the baking-pan with a little water; 
add to it the tablespoonful of butter. Bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes, basting two or three times. 
These may be served plain or you may lift the lids and 
put into each a tablespoonful of tomato sauce. These 
take the place of both a succulent and starchy vegetable 
at dinner. 

SWEET PEPPERS, CREOLE FASHION 

6 sweet peppers J/2 pint rice 

6 tomatoes, or half can 6 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

tomatoes i onion 

I teaspoonful salt 

Cut the peppers into halves and remove the seeds ; cut 
the stem close to the flesh of the pepper. Wash the 
rice; throw it into boiling water; boil rapidly for fif- 
teen minutes, drain and dry. Scald, peel and chop the 
tomatoes, or select the hard portion from one can of 
tomatoes ; add them to the rice ; add the salt and the 
onion grated. Mix and stuff this into the peppers. 
Put the oil in a shallow frying-pan; when hot, stand 
in the peppers. Fry until they are slightly brown; 
then stand the pan in the oven, add a half cup of water 
and bake slowly three-quarters of an hour, basting two 
or three times. Baste the outside of the peppers rather 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

than the stuffing. These take the place of a starchy 
and succulent vegetable at dinner. They are also 
exceedingly nice for supper or luncheon in summer. 

STEWED PEPPERS 
Cut green or red peppers into halves ; remove the stems 
and seeds ; cut each half into four or five pieces length- 
wise. Put two tablespoonf uls of butter in a saucepan ; 
when hot, add the pepper. Shake over a quick fire for 
five or ten minutes. Then add enough boiling water 
to cover the peppers; add a half teaspoonful of salt 
and cook gently for fifteen minutes. Serve as an 
accompaniment to nut steaks or nut sausages, or use 
as a garnish to plain boiled rice. 

RADISH 

{Raphanus sativus, Linn.) 

Radishes contain neither sugar nor starch, and are 
eaten raw as appetizers. At dinner they are passed 
with the soup. They may be served, however, for 
breakfast and luncheon, passed at the early part of the 
meal. Being dense, they are rather difficult of diges- 
tion. They should be perfectly fresh and crisp. It is 
best to soak them in cold water at least one hour before 
using. If not thoroughly masticated, they will fre- 
quently produce acute indigestion. 

The large black Spanish and the Japanese radishes 
are good only in the winter. If put in a box and cov- 
ered with sand they will keep in a cool cellar until 
Spring. They may be served either raw, or boiled the 
same as turnips and served with cream sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 139 

TO SERVE RADISHES RAW 

The small red button radishes are most sightly. Trim 
the tops, leaving one small green sprig. Wash them 
thoroughly in cold water; then, with a shiarp knife, 
cut the red skin down, without taking it off, into four 
or five petals. Throw the radishes into ice water until 
wanted. If cut properly, the radishes will look like 
little tulips. To serve, put them in an oblong dish or 
round cut glass dish and cover them with finely shaved 
ice. It is wise to eat the skin as it aids in the digestion 
of the radish. 



SALSIFY 

(Tragopogon porrifolius, Linn.) 

STEWED SALSIFY 

1 dozen roots salsify 54 pint milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoon ful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i saltspoonful pepper 

Scrape the salsify. Throw the roots at once into cold 
water to prevent discoloration. Cut them into halves 
and soak in cold water for one hour. When ready to 
cook, drop into boiling unsalted water; boil in an 
uncovered vessel for half an hour, until they are per- 
fectly tender; drain in a colander. Cover the bottom 
of a meat platter with squares of toasted bread. 
Arrange the salsify crosswise on the toast, butts one 
way ; rub the butter and flour together ; add the milk ; 
stir until boiling; add the salt and pepper and strain 
it over the salsify. 



Digitized by 



Google 



140 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BAKED SALSIFY 

Follow the directions in preceding recipe except cut 
the salsify into slices crosswise. Put them into a 
baking-dish. Pour over the white sauce, dust the top 
with grated cheese and brown quickly in the oven. 

SPINACH 

(Spinacia oleracea. Miller) 
This name includes a number of varieties of the same 
plant. In this book we are only concerned with the 
variety in common use. 

SPINACH BOILED AS GREENS 

Have a large pan of water; take a root of spinach in 
each hand ; plunge up and down in the water and throw 
into another pan. Wash it again through a second 
water. Then pick up each root and cut off the leaves, 
allowing them to float in a pan of clear water. Do not 
drain off the water by holding the spinach back with 
the hand ; the sand will be retained in the pan and the 
spinach will be uneatable. After the spinach has been 
thoroughly washed, throw it into a kettle of boiling 
salted water ; boil twenty minutes. Drain in a colander ; 
dish and send to the table. 

CREAMED SPINACH 

H peck spinach 2 hard-boiled eggs 

2 slices bread 2 tablespoonfuls cream 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Wash the spinach as directed in the preceding recipe ; 

shake it from the last water until quite dry. Throw 

it into a hot kettle ; add quickly a half pint of boiling 

water and sprinkle over the salt. Cover the kettle. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 141 

push it to the back part of the stove for ten minutes ; 
then pull it over a hotter portion of the fire where it 
will cook slowly twenty minutes ; drain carefully, press- 
ing out the water. Put the spinach in a chopping 
bowl and chop it very fine. Return it to the saucepan, 
add the cream, butter, salt and pepper and stir over 
the fire until smoking hot. Cut the eggs into halves 
and then into quarters. Cut the bread into small tri- 
angles and toast them. Pack the spinach quickly into 
a bowl, simply to shape it. Turn it into a round dish, 
putting around the edge the triangles of toast, arrange 
the whites of the eggs in imitation of a daisy at the 
top, pressing the yolk side down into the spinach, and 
send to the table. 

SPINACH FOR GARNISHING (Puree of Spinach) 
Wash and cook the spinach according to the preceding 
recipe. When it is hot, put it into a pastry-bag with 
a star-tube and press it in a rope-like finish around the 
dish that is to be garnished. Nut sausages, macaroni 
croquettes and stuffed tomatoes may all be garnished 
with puree of spinach. Left-over spinach may be used 
for cream of spinach soup or may be moulded in after- 
dinner coffee-cups and served cold with French 
dressing as a salad. 

STACHYS 

(Stachys tuberose) 
The small tubers of this plant resemble in taste and 
texture the Jerusalem artichoke, and they may be 
cooked according to the same rules. Their corkscrew 
appearance makes them an attractive vegetable to serve 
as a salad or as a garnish for other vegetable dishes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

TOMATOES 

(Lycopersicum esculcntum, Miller) 
Tomatoes, when fully ripe, contain about ninety to 
ninety-two per cent, of water. In the remaining por- 
tion there is a little pectose and mineral matter, not 
enough, however, to give them food value. Whether 
or not they are wholesome I do not know, but of one 
thing I am quite certain, they are detrimental to per- 
sons who have oxaluria or uric acid diathesis. 

Tomatoes are attractive in appearance, palatable 
and capable of great variation in cooking, hence their 
popularity. There is no doubt that many succulent 
vegetables, especially the tomato, are more easily 
digested raw. Tomatoes, if served with just a little 
olive oil, cocoanut cream or mayonnaise dressing, are 
far more attractive than when combined with vinegar, 
sugar or cream. If served persistently with salt, 
pepper and vinegar, they will produce ulcerations in 
the mouth and intestinal disturbances. 

TO SERVE TOMATOTES RAW 

Select small solid peach tomatoes; put them into a 
colander or wire basket ; plunge into boiling water and 
quickly remove the skins. Hace the tomatoes at once 
on ice to cool. At serving time, fill small bowls nearly 
full of cracked ice and sink the tomato down into the 
ice, blossom end up. Pass with them a bowl of pow- 
dered sugar. 

LUNCHEON TOMATOES 

Select uniform size small peach tomatoes. Put them 
into a wire basket ; plunge into boiling water ; lift out 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 143 

quickly ; remove the skins. Stand them on the ice until 
cold. Arrange on small dishes in little nests of crisp 
lettuce leaves and cover the tomato thickly with mayon- 
naise; put a little cracked ice around the lettuce and 
send to the table. 

TOMATOES ON THE HALF SHELL 

Cut large solid tomatoes into halves ; stand in a baking- 
pan, skin side down. Dust lightly with salt and 
pepper ; put a bit of butter in the centre of each tomato 
and cook in a moderate oven half an hour, or until the 
tomatoes are soft but whole. Have ready toasted 
slices of bread; put half a tomato on each. Mix a 
tablespoonful of flour with four tablespoonfuls of 
cream ; add sufficient milk to make a half pint. Pour 
this into the pan in which the tomatoes were cooked; 
stir constantly until it boils ; add a half teaspoonful of 
salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Strain this around 
the tomatoes and send at once to the table. This makes 
a nice luncheon or supper dish. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut solid tomatoes into slices a half inch thick; dust 
with salt and pepper, and roll them in bread-crumbs. 
Put them on a broiler ; broil quickly over a clear fire, 
first on one side and then on the other. Transfer them 
carefully to a hot dish and send to the table. These 
are nice for breakfast. 

CUP BAKED TOMATOES 

Put small peeled tomatoes into custard cups. Stand 
the cups in a baking-pan and then in a quick oven and 
bake for thirty minutes. Take from the oven; with 



Digitized by 



Google 



144 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

two forks open the tomatoes carefully in the centre, 
as you would a baked potato; put in a half saltspoonful 
of salt, a dash of pepper and a half teaspoonful of 
butter. Send at once to the table. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES 

6 large tomatoes, or 4 tablespoonfuls chopped 
Vi can tomatoes onion 

6 slices bread i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls batter i saltspoonful pepper 

Mix the salt and pepper together. Cut the butter into 
bits the size of a hazelnut ; cut the bread into half -inch 
cubes ; peel the tomatoes ; cut into halves and each half 
into quarters. Put a layer of bread in the bottom of 
a baking-dish, then a layer of tomatoes, a little onion, 
salt and pepper and a few bits of butter ; then another 
layer of bread, and so continue until all materials are 
used, having the last layer of bread; put over three 
or four bits of butter and bake in a quick oven thirty 
minutes. Serve in the dish in which they are baked. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

6 good-sized solid i chopped onion 

tomatoes i tablespoonful butter 

Yt. pint boiled rice ^ teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Cut a slice from the stem end of the tomatoes and 
scoop out the seeds. Mix the rice, onion, salt and 
pepper, and add the butter, melted. Fill the tomatoes 
with the rice and put on the lid or slice that you have 
taken from the end. Stand them in a baking-pan and 
bake in a quick oven thirty minutes. These take the 
place of both a starchy and succulent vegetable at 
either luncheon or dinner. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GRBEN VEGETABLES 145 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CORN 

6 large tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls cream 

4 ears com Yz teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter i . saltspoonf ul pepper 

Husk the corn and throw it into boiling water; boil 
three minutes. Cut a slice from the stem ends of the 
tomatoes and scoop out the seeds. Score the corn 
down the centre of each row of grains and with a dull 
knife press out the pulp. Add the salt, pepper, cream 
and butter, melted. Fill the tomatoes, put on the lids, 
stand them in a baking-pan and bake in a quick oven 
thirty minutes. These are nice with mock turkey or 
with any of the various egg dishes. They do not, 
however, contain any starchy material, 

FRIED TOMATOES 

Select six solid tomatoes; cut into slices a half inch 
thick; beat an egg without separating; add a table- 
spoonful of water. Dust the tomatoes with salt and 
pepper; dip in the t,%%^ roll them thoroughly in bread- 
crumbs and fry in a small quantity of very hot oil in 
a shallow frying-pan. They must be browned on one 
side, then turned and browned on the other. Lift with 
a skimmer; drain and dish on a heated platter. 

CEYLON CURRY OF TOMATOES 

Peel six medium-sized solid tomatoes ; cut into halves 
and press out the seeds. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
butter into a saucepan and add two chopped onions; 
stand this on the back part of the stove where the 
onion will cook without browning. Add a teaspoonful 
of curry powder, a teaspoonful of turmeric, a half pint 
10 



Digitized by 



Google 



146 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

of water, or better, cocoanut milk. Stir until boiling ; 
put in the tomatoes, cover the saucepan and cook 
slowly for twenty minutes. While these are cooking, 
boil a half pound of rice ; turn it into a colander and 
stand it at the oven door to dry. Heap this in the 
centre of a platter; put around the tomatoes, which 
should be whole and soft; strain over the sauce and 
send at once to the table. Serve with this an egg dish 
and baked or fried bananas. 

TOMATOES. FRENCH FASHION 

Peel small solid or peach tomatoes ; to each half dozen 
allow a half pint of cream or white sauce. Put a table- 
spoonful of this sauce in the bottom of a ramekin-dish 
or custard-cup ; stand in each a tomato and cover over 
the remaining sauce. Stand these dishes in a shallow 
baking-pan and bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes. 

GROUND-CHERRY, OR POD TOMATO 

These are known in some parts of the United States 
as Cape gooseberries and strawberry tomatoes. Some 
are red and others yellow when they are ripe. Thfey 
are usually dried or preserved the same as strawberries. 



TURNIPS 

We have in common use two varieties, the rutabaga, 
yellow or Swedish turnip (Brassica campestris, Linn.), 
and the white turnip (Brassica rapa, Linn.). In 
chemical composition the turnip is very much like the 
cabbage, except that it contains more water and less 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 147 

nutritious matter. It does not contain either sugar or 
starch. The carbohydrates present are in the form of 
inulin and pectose, which make them an agreeable and 
harmless vegetable for diabetic patients. Turnip tops, 
or sprouts of old turnips, may be used in salads or 
boiled as greens. 

TURNIPS WITH CREAM SAUCE 

6 white turnips or three 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

rutabagas J4 pint milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter ^ teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Pare the turnips ; cut into cubes of a half inch ; throw 
into cold water for half an hour; put into a saucepan 
of unsalted boiling water and cook in the vessel, uncov- 
ered, for about thirty minutes, or until they are white 
and transparent ; drain in a colander. Rub the butter 
and flour together and add the milk, salt and pepper ; 
stir until boiling. Put the turnips into a heated vege- 
table dish; pour over the sauce and send at once to 
the table. 

MUSHROOMS 

Mushrooms and truffles belong to the group of fungi — 
plants without chlorophyl — green coloring matter. 
They are usually placed among the nitrogenous foods 
simply because they do not contain starch or sugar. 
Some varieties contain ninety per cent, of water; of 
the remaining ten per cent, a portion is vegetable 
fibre — nitrogenous material. The nitrogen they con- 
tain, however, is not valuable for tissue building. 



Digitized by 



Google 



148 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

They are food adjuncts rather than true foods. Many 
varieties are dense and difficult of digestion, and for 
this reason we have not placed them among the foods 
that take the place of meat. 

The subject of selection is too large for the avail- 
able space in a vegetable cookery book, so I shall 
give a few recipes for cooking, drying and canning 
the more common varieties. I should like to emphat- 
ically state that there is no royal road to distin- 
guishing the poisonous from the edible varieties of 
mushrooms, or what the common folks call mush- 
rooms and toadstools. If you do not know the char- 
acteristics of the edible mushrooms it is best to avoid 
all varieties. If you are sure of but one variety, stick 
to that. The common tests of salt and a silver spoon, 
or the peeling of the cap, are all fallacies. 

All mushrooms are best cooked without peeling 
with the exception of the puff ball, which should be 
pared. 

In washing mushrooms, take one in each hand, 
gills down. Plunge them into a basin of water, rub- 
bing the caps with your thumbs. Shake dry and drop 
into a colander. 

Agaricus campestris, the common edible mush- 
room, is the only one that can be successfully canned. 
I have canned other varieties but they lose their flavor. 
Lepiota procera, or the "parasol" or "Scotch bonnet" 
mushroom, is most easily dried ; in fact, drying seems 
to intensify its flavor. 

The following recipes will answer for Agaricus 
campestris, Lepiota procera, Coprinus tnicaceus. Cop- 
rintis comatus, and atramentaritis. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 149 

STEWED MUSHROOMS 
Wash one pound of mushrooms ; cut into slices. Put 
them in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
a teaspoonful of salt and a half pint of milk. Cover 
the kettle and stew slowly half an hour. Moisten 
two tablespoonfuls of flour in a little cold milk ; when 
perfectly smooth, add it to the mushrooms. Bring 
to boiling-point, add a saltspoonful of black pepper 
and serve. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS 

Stew the mushrooms according to the preceding 
recipe. When ready to serve, pour them on squares 
of carefully toasted bread. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS 

Cut the stems close to the gills. Wash the mush- 
rooms and put them on a wire broiler over the fire, 
gill sides down ; if you broil in a gas stove, gill sides 
up. Broil five minutes; turn. Put a piece of butter 
the size of a pea in the centre of each mushroom and 
dust lightly with salt and pepper. Broil skin side 
down for five minutes. Have ready squares of neatly 
toasted buttered bread. Put the mushrooms on the 
toast, skin side up, and send them at once to the table. 
Allow five mushrooms to each square of bread, one 
capping the centre. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS 

Wash one pint of mushrooms after cutting the stems 
close to the caps. If the stems are solid, they may be 
saved for the flavoring of sauces. Crowd them, skin 



Digitized by 



Google 



150 MRS. rorbr's vegetablb cookery 

side down, in a baking-pan ; dust lightly with salt and 
pepper; pour over a tablespoonful of melted butter 
and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. Toast 
squares of bread ; butter and arrange on a hot platter ; 
put five mushrooms on each square of bread, skin side 
up. Baste with sauce from the pan and send at once 
to the table. 

UNDER A MUSHROOM BELL 

Cut rounds from slices of bread with an ordinary bis- 
cuit cutter; toast and butter them, and put one slice 
in the bottom of a mushroom dish. Stem, wash and 
drain the mushrooms. Put four mushrooms, skin side 
up, on each piece of bread ; dust with salt and pepper ; 
pour over six tablespoonf uls of cream ; cover with the 
"bells," stand the dishes in a baking-pan and then 
in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Send to the table 
without lifting the "bells." Have the waitress lift 
the "bells'* after the guests are seated that they may 
get the full aroma of the mushrooms. 

MUSHROOMS IN A CHAFING-DISH 

Stem, wash, and cut into slices one pound of mush- 
rooms. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in the 
chafing-dish; when it is hot, put in the mushrooms; 
sprinkle with a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful 
of pepper; add a half cup of milk. Cover the dish, 
cook slowly for five minutes, stirring twice; moisten 
a tablespoonful of flour in a little cold milk; add this 
to the mushrooms. When they have reached the 
boiling-point they are ready to serve. To give variety. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 151 

add, at one time, the beaten yolks of two eggs and a 
half cup of cream in the place of the flour and the 
milk. If the eggs are added, serve them as soon as 
they boil, or the mixture will curdle. 

"OYSTER** MUSHROOMS 

(Pleurotus ostreatus, Linn.) 

These mushrooms have a distinctive fishy flavor. 
Hence the name. Wash and shake the mushrooms, 
cut into strips crosswise, rejecting the woody stem. 
To each pound allow two tablespoonfuls of butter, a 
teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Put the butter in a saucepan; when melted, add 
the mushrooms, salt and pepper; cover closely and 
stew for twenty minutes. Moisten two tablespoonfuls 
of flour in a little cold milk; then add a pint of 
milk. Turn this into the mushrooms and bring to 
boiling-point. Add a grating of nutmeg, and serve 
the same as you would an oyster stew, passing oyster 
crackers. If the oyster mushrooms are young, they 
may be trimmed the shape of an oyster, washed, dried, 
and dusted with salt and pepper* Then dip in beaten 
egg, roll in bread-crumbs and fry in hot fat. Serve 
with tomato catsup. 

MORCHBLLA (Morels, or Cup Fungi) 

Morchella esculenta is one of the best known varieties 
of mushrooms in many of the New England States. 
They may be stewed, panned or baked the same as 
other varieties. In France the stems are removed, 
the mushrooms stuffed with highly seasoned bread- 



Digitized by 



Google 



152 MRS. RORER S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

crumbs and baked precisely as you would bake a 
tomato. Serve them with either cream or tomato 
sauce. 

PUFF BfALLS 

(Lycoperdon giganteutn) 
Pare the puff balls and cut into slices. Be sure that 
the flesh is perfectly white. Dust the slices with salt 
and pepper, dip in beaten egg and drop at once in a 
small quantity of very hot olive oil. When browned 
on one side, turn and brown them on the other. Drain 
on brown paper and send at once to the table. If you 
only find one good-sized puff ball, and you have a 
number of old Agaricus campestris, stew them 
together ; it improves the flavor of both. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP 

Wash and slice two quarts of mushrooms. Put a 
layer of mushrooms in the bottom of a stone jar; 
sprinkle with a teaspoonful of salt. Then put in 
another layer of mushrooms, another teaspoonful of 
salt, and so continue until the jar is filled. Cover and 
stand aside all night. Next day drain the liquor from 
the mushrooms and chop fine. Measure the liquor; 
turn it at once into a granite or porcelain kettle, and 
to each pint allow a saltspoonful of black pepper, a 
blade of mace, two whole cloves, a teaspoonful of 
celery seed, a saltspoonful of ground ginger and two 
bay leaves. Boil rapidly five minutes and strain. Add 
the mushrooms; boil again five minutes. Take from 
the fire; add one gill of port wine. Bottle, cork and 
seal. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GREEN VEGETABLES 153 

TO DRY MUSHROOMS 

Select perfectly clean mushrooms that will not require 
washing ; remove the stems ; string the mushrooms on 
a long cord, using a darning or trussing needle. Hang 
in the sun and wind. As soon as the sun goes down, 
bring in and hang near the kitchen fire where they 
will have sufficient heat to thoroughly finish the dry- 
ing. Put these in a cheesecloth bag lined with waxed 
paper; keep in a perfectly dry place. When wanted 
for use, soak them in water or milk for two hours 
and cook them without draining. 

TO CAN MUSHROOMS 

Stem, wash and peel the mushrooms. Pack them in 
glass jars with glass tops; adjust the rubbers, put 
the lids on loosely, and stand the jars in a wash- 
boiler, the bottom of which has been protected with 
a rack. Surround them half way up with cold water. 
Cover the boiler; bring to boiling-point and boil con- 
tinuously for one and a half hours. Lift three jars 
from the boiler ; take the lids off and drop them in a 
kettle of boiling water. Fill two jars from a third. 
Lift the lids with a skimmer, touching them only on 
the edge; put them back on the jars and fasten. 
Stand the jars back in the boiler. When you have 
filled the last jar, cover the boiler, bring the water 
again to boiling-point and boil rapidly for twenty min- 
utes. Lift the jars when they are cool, examining 
them to see that the tops are firmly fastened. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 

SALAD PLANTS 

Green succulent vegetables not containing starch are 
attractive, palatable and wholesome served raw with 
French or Ceylon dressing. One of the best of these 
is chicory, (Cichorium Intybus, Linn.). 

Corn salad, or lambs* lettuce (Valerianella oliforiaj 
Poll.), an early spring plant fits in nicely between 
the head or winter lettuce and the delicate summer 
lettuce. 

Imported endive is the most sightly, delicate and 
palatable of all the salad plants. So far as I know 
thi3 is not grown in the United States. The entire 
supply comes from Belgium and is sold only by the 
pound. We have endive (Cichorium Endivia, Linn.), 
but nothing like the imported variety. One is white, 
tender and sweet ; the other coarse and bitter. 

Garden cress or pepper grass (Lepidium satizmm), 
is better as flavoring than to eat alone. 

Lettuce (Lacttu:a sativa, Linn.) grows every- 
where in all varieties. It is always nice, cooling and 
attractive. The ideal dinner salad is crisp lettuce 
with French dressing. Any cooked green vegetable 
may be served cold as a salad. In fact, this is one of 
the best ways of utilizing the left-overs. 

Asparagus, string beans and cauliflower are best 
with French dressing. Peas and young lima beans 
are nice with mayonnaise or cream dressing. 

154 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 155 

Serve salad after the main or substantial course 
at dinner; pass wafers and cheese. Salads are whole- 
some, and should be served every day. They are 
digested largely . in the small intestine. The oil is 
heat and energy food; the lemon juice or the small 
amount of vinegar aids in the digestion of other foods. 

SALADS 

APPLE SALAD 

Cut tart apples into dice; mix with mayonnaise or 
French dressing; serve on lettuce leaves. 

IN APPLE CUPS 
Cut a slice from the stem end of perfect red-skinned 
apples; scoop out the flesh and cut it into dice. Mix 
with it white mayonnaise ; fill it into the skins ; stand 
these on a mat, or fern, or lettuce leaf, and serve. 

ALLIGATOR PEAR SALAD 

Select pears that are a little soft to the touch, and in 
which the seeds rattle when shaken ; put them in the 
ice chest until very cold ; then cut into halves and sink 
each half into a small plate of cracked ice. Pass a 
boat of very cold well made French dressing; put 
a tablespoonful of this dressing into each half, and 
eat the pear with a spoon, scooping it out as you 
would a cantaloupe. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

I bunch asparagus The rule for French dressing 

Boil the asparagus. Lift each piece carefully and 
drain. Stand it aside until very cold; then arrange 



Digitized by 



Google 



156 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

it neatly on a platter with the heads all one way. Pass 
with it French dressing. 

BANANA SALAD 

With a sharp knife cut the lid, as it were, from the 
banana lengthwise, but do not cut it off. Cut it 
almost to the stem, and then carefully take the fruit 
from the skin. Cut it into thin slices and put it 
back into the deep under shell. Arrange this neatly 
on a breakfast-plate and garnish with crisp lettuce. 
Put a half teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of 
paprika, and four tablespoonfuls of oil into a bowl; 
mix well and add the juice of a lemon; baste the 
bananas well with this, putting a few drops on the 
lettuce leaves. Put over the lids, leaving them half 
open. If you have nasturtiums, garnish one end with 
one or two flowers and send to the table. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

This may be made from left-over string beans. If 
you cook beans specially for salad, string and boil 
without cutting, and let them get very cold. Dish 
neatly on a platter or in a salad bowl, and pour over 
French or Italian dressing. 

STUFFED BEET SALAD 

Select uniform beets, allowing one to each person. 
Wash and cook in boiling unsalted water until you 
can pierce to the centre with a fork ; drain ; cut a slice 
from the stem end, slip the beet out of the skin and 
stand aside until cold. When cold, cut a slice from 
the root end, just enough to make the beet stand. Cut 
a slice from the top and scoop out the centre, leaving 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 15? 

a wall a half inch thick. Chop the portion that you 
have scooped out; mix with it green peas or a little 
finely chopped celery; mix with mayonnaise dressing 
and put it in the beet cups. Stand the cups in little 
nests of lettuce leaves and serve. 

BOBOTEE SALAD 

% pound Jordan almonds 4 tablespoonfuls cold 
I tcaspoonful curry boiled rice 

powder 6 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

I pimiento 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

1 head chicory i tablespoonful chopped 

2 good-sized bananas Spanish onion 
^ teaspoonful paprika ^ teaspoon ful salt 

Blanch and chop the almonds ; shred the pimiento ; mix 
it with the almonds; add the onion, curry, salt and 
paprika. Peel the bananas and cut into thin slices; 
add the rice, and toss with the other ingredients. Line 
the salad bowl with the chicory ; put in the salad. Mix 
the oil and vinegar thoroughly, and, if you have it, 
add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce or soy. 
Pour it over the salad; mix and send at once to the 
table. 

CHERRY SALAD 

Select large ox heart or black eagle cherries; stone 
carefully without breaking the cherries; put these on 
crisp lettuce leaves on individual dishes; pour over 
French dressing and serve. 

SPRING SALAD 

Make a cherry salad according to the preceding recipe ; 
fill it into cups made from halves of orange skins and 
serve them on crisp lettuce leaves. 



Digitized by 



Google 



158 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

CHINESE SALAD t 

I cup rice 2 tablespoonfuls lemon 
^ can mushrooms juice 

6 tablespoonfuls oil % pound almonds 

I tablespoonful soy i teaspoonful salt 

Wash and. boil the rice ; dry and cool it. It must be 
sufficiently dry when cold to be taken up in the hands 
without stickiness. Put the rice into a bowl ; sprinkle 
over the salt. Blanch the almonds, dry, chop and 
sprinkle them over the rice. Make a French dressing; 
beat it until quite thick and then add the soy. Slice 
the mushrooms ; put them over the nuts and then pour 
over the French dressing. Toss and serve on lettuce 
leaves. It is wise to mix the rice in one bowl and 
have the lettuce dry in another. In dishing, put the 
lettuce on the serving-plates and ladle in the salad. 

PLAIN CUCUMBER SALAD 

Select fresh crisp full-g^own cucumbers. Pare and 
soak in cold water for half an hour, then slice very 
fine. Throw into ice water for one or two hours; 
drain; put them in a towel; twist slightly to dry. 
Place them in a salad-bowl that has been lined with 
lettuce leaves and serve with French dressing. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Cut a hard head of cabbage into halves; shave with 
a slaw-cutter, or with a knife, as fine as possible. As 
fast as it is shredded, throw into a bowl of ice water ; 
soak two hours, changing the water once. At serving 
time drain the cabbage, lay on a towel and twist the 
towel, wringing it dry. Put it in a salad-bowl, pour 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 159 

over French dressing, mix thoroughly, and serve. In 
winter the cabbage may be mixed with a little chopped 
celery, or use in the dressing celery seed or celery salt. 

CABBAGE SALAD IN A CABBAGE-CUP 

Select a medium-sized hard head of cabbage. Cut a 
thick slice from the top ; remove centre of head, leav- 
ing a wall of three or four leaves. Trim the stem 
end so that the "cup" will stand. Chop fine the cab- 
bage removed from the centre; throw it into cold 
water. When ready to serve, drain, spread on a clean 
towel and wring until the cabbage is dry ; mix with it 
a well-made Farmer's dressing, Sidney Smith's dress- 
ing, or plain mayonnaise. Decorate the cabbage-cup 
on the outside with whole cloves, sticking them in 
up to the heads. This may be done in rows or dia- 
monds, or in Walls of Troy. Fill the mixture into the 
cabbage-cup; stand on a round plate and serve. 

CANTALOUPE SALAD 

If cantaloupes are not sufficiently tasty to be eaten as 
fruit they may be used the same as alligator pears, 
made very cold and served with French dressing. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

Wash and soak a loose head of cauliflower; drain it; 
tie in cheesecloth and drop in a kettle of boiling salted 
water. Boil uncovered thirty minutes; when done, 
lift the cover ; drain the cauliflower in a colander and 
then with a sharp knife cut it apart into flowerets and 
stand aside until very cold. At serving time arrange 



Digitized by 



Google 



160 MKS. RORER's vegetable CXX)KERY 

these neatly in a salad-bowl, with or without lettuce; 
dust it thickly with chopped parsley ; pour over French 
dressing, and serve. 

CELERY SALAD 

Wash, cut and soak the desired amount of crisp celery. 
At serving time, drain and dry. Put into a salad- 
bowl, pour over French dressing, and mix thoroughly. 
Celery may also be served with mayonnaise dressing 
at supper or luncheon. 

CHICORY SALAD 

Chicory, endive, Romaine, corn salad, cress, cscarole 
and dandelions are simply washed, soaked in cold 
water until crisp, drained, dried and served with 
French dressing. 

CARROT SALAD 

Scrape, cut into slices and then into fancy shapes, four 
large carrots. Soak in cold water for half an hour, 
and then cook in boiling unsalted water until tender. 
Drain and dry. Line the salad bowl with crisp lettuce 
leaves, and arrange on top the carrots. Use French or 
Italian dressing. 

MOCK CHICKEN SALAD 

Cut cold left-over mock turkey or chicken into cubes ; 
mix with this half the quantity of crisp celery cut 
into dice of the same size; season with salt and 
pepper; put over the juice of half a lemon; mix care- 
fully with mayonnaise dressing, and serve on a bed 
of lettuce leaves. Garnish the dish with olives, hard- 
boiled eggs cut into quarters, and capers. Sprinkle 
with toasted pine nuts, if you have them. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 161 

CHIFFONADK SALAD 

This salad is made of various. vegetables. Mix a few 
leaves of lettuce, tender leaves of dandelion and 
chicory; cut crisp celery into inch lengths, then shred 
it; cut cold boiled beets into slices lengthwise and 
shred them ; a few shreds of boiled cauliflower ; mix, 
and put in a salad bowl that is nicely lined with lettuce. 
Sprinkle over the top a tablespoonful of finely chopped 
parsley, a tablespoonful of finely chopped chives. 
Pour over French dressing, mix and serve. 

COMBINATION SALAD 

This salad is made from a combination of almost all 
the vegetables at hand — ^lettuce; a slice or two of 
cucumber; young spring onions, cut very fine; crisp 
celery, shredded ; pickled or boiled beets, cut into fancy 
shapes ; a few pieces of carrots if you have them, and 
a slice of tomato. Mix and serve with French dress- 
ing. The best way .to make combination salad is to 
buy a can of macedoine and then mix with it such 
vegetables as you happen to have on hand, seasoning 
it with either chives or Spanish onions. 

EGG SALAD 

6 hard-boiled eggs i tablespoonful chopped 

I head lettuce chives 

H cup mayonnaise dressing 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

I tablespoonful chopped ^^ teaspoonful paprika 

parsley 5^ teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Remove shells from eggs and cut into halves cross- 
wise. Take out the yolks and take a chipping from 
the bottom of each white to make it stand. Mash the 
yolks through a sieve ; add the salt, pepper, chives and 
parsley. Then add gradually the vinegar. Make this 
u 



Digitized by 



Google 



162 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

mixture into balls and put them into the whites of the 
eggs. Garnish a round dish with lettuce leaves; 
stand the eggs in the centre; add the paprika to the 
mayonnaise, mix; put a teaspoonful on the top of 
each yolk and send at once to the table. The appear- 
ance of the salad may be varied by slitting the whites 
of the eggs down in the form of a daisy, putting the 
balls in the centre. Then pass the mayonnaise in a 
boat. 

EGG AND BEET SALAD 
Chop fine a good-sized pickled or boiled beet. Poach 
six eggs until rather hard; trim neatly and stand 
aside until very cold. When ready to serve put 
each egg in a nest of crisp lettuce leaves; cover it 
over with the chopped beet; put right in the centre a 
teaspoonful of stiff mayonnaise, and serve. These are 
nice in the summer with sandwiches, for supper. 

MOCK PISH SALAD 

Cut cold left-over mock fish into dice. Heap on let- 
tuce leaves; put over mayonnaise or cream dressing, 
and serve at once. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

Peel large solid grape fruit, remove all the white skin, 
and, with a sharp knife, cut around each carpel, taking 
it out clean. Arrange these carpels on lettuce leaves. 
Rub the bottom of the bowl with a clove of garlic; 
put in six tablespoonfuls of olive oil, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half a teaspoonful of paprika; mix thor- 
oughly and add a bit of ice; add any juice that may 
have come from the grape fruit while you were cutting 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 163 

It and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Mix thor- 
oughly; pour the dressing over the fruit, and serve. 
Sour oranges may be used in the same way. 

HONOLULU SALAD 

Mash a half pint of cottage cheese or one roll of 
Neufchatel, adding two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter. Roll this mixture into balls the size of an Eng- 
lish walnut. Cover a shallow plate with crisp lettuce 
leaves. Heap in the centre the cheese-balls ; cover with 
two tart apples, pared and cut into very thin slices, a 
tablespoonful of pearl onions and one of chopped 
parsley. Pour over a French dressing and serve. 

INDIAN SALAD 

Select rather thick, smooth cucumbers, allowing a half 
cucumber to each person. Peel and chill in cold water 
for an hour; then cut into halves, and, with a table- 
spoon, scoop out the seeds. With a sharp knife cut 
out a portion of the flesh, leaving a wall one-eighth 
of an inch thick. Chop the cucumber that you have 
taken out; add to it half the quantity of chopped 
onion; sprinkle with a saltspoonful of celery seed, or 
add to it four tablespoonfuls of finely chopped celery. 
Drain the cucumbers and dry with a soft cloth. Dish 
each half on a breakfast-plate and garnish with lettuce 
leaves or celery tops. Fill them with the mixture. Press 
the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs through a sieve. 
Baste the salad carefully with French dressing ; dust the 
top thickly with the yolk of the egg and down through 
the centre put a strip of finely chopped chives or pars- 
ley. Send to the table. This makes an exceedingly nice 
spring salad for a green-and-white luncheon or dinner. 



Digitized by 



Google 



164 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

JAPANESE SALAD 

Wash and boil one cupful of rice. When dry and 
perfectly cold turn it into the centre of a shallow 
platter or bowl. Garnish the edge of the dish with 
crisp lettuce leaves ; here and there among the leaves 
put a hard-boiled tgg cut into quarters ; put a heavy 
rope of finely chopped pickled or boiled beets around 
the edge of the rice ; inside of this put a row of sliced 
stuffed olives. Pour over French dressing, mix and 
serve. 

LADIES' LUNCHEON SALAD 

2 pimientos i head lettuce, or Romatne 

^ pound grated cheese 2 cupfuls carefully boiled 

24 olives rice 

6 tablespoonfuls thick ^ teaspoonfu! paprika 
cream 

Wash the lettuce and throw it into cold water until 
very crisp; then shake and dry. Put the cheese in a 
bowl ; add the cream, a saltspoonful of salt and a dash 
of red pepper ; when smooth, form into balls half the 
size of an English walnut. Cut the pimientos into 
shreds; stone the olives by paring them around and 
around, as you would an apple. Make the French 
dressing, and have it very cold. At serving time, 
put the lettuce in a bowl; cover over the cold boiled 
rice; heap in the centre of this the cheese balls and 
garnish the rice neatly with the shredded pimientos; 
add the paprika to the French dressing and beat thor- 
oughly; baste it over the salad, and serve at once. 
Onions or garlic may be added, or a cupful of finely 
chopped celery. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 165 

MACEDOINE SALAD 

Mixed vegetables, well cooked, either canned or fresh, 
are called macedoine. If canned, drain, wash and 
arrange them neatly on lettuce leaves; pour over 
French dressing and serve. Macedoine may also be 
served in beet-cups, or in carefully cooked turnip-cups, 
or in the red skins of apples. 

NUT SALAD 

Make a plain grape fruit salad. When you have it 
ready to serve, cover the top thickly with finely 
chopped almonds and pecans, mixed. Pour over 
French or Italian dressing, mix, and serve. 

OLIVE SALAD 

2 hard-boiled eggs i boiled beet 

I head lettuce 24 olives 

I small cucumber pickle i teaspoonful onion juice, 

I boiled potato 

Stone and chop the olives; cut the beet and the 
potato into dice; chop the pickle. At serving time 
line the salad-bowl with lettuce leaves; put in the 
beet and potato, the pickle and olives, then a dusting 
of salt and pepper, and the hard-boiled eggs cut into 
slices. Pour over French dressing, mix carefully, and 
serve. 

GREEN PEA SALAD 

Mix one pint of green peas with either mayonnaise or 
cream dressing. Heap them on lettuce leaves and 
send at once to the table. This salad is pretty served 
in scooped out tomatoes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



166 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

POTATO SALAD, No. z 

Boil four good-sized potatoes. While these are boil- 
ing cut a good-sized onion into very thin slices; put 
it in a bowl with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoon- 
ful of pepper and six tablespoonf uls of olive oil ; mix 
until the salt is dissolved ; then add two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. When the potatoes are done, slice them 
while hot into this mixture, toss carefully without 
breaking the potato, and stand aside to cool. When 
cold, turn out on a small platter and garnish with 
parsley and finely chopped pickled beets. 

POTATO SALAD, No. a 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice; mix with Farmer's 
or Sidney Smith's salad dressing. Serve on a platter 
garnished with lettuce leaves. 

TOMATO SALAD 
Put small, smooth, round tomatoes into a wire basket 
and plunge them in hot water ; drain, remove the skins, 
and stand at once in a very cold place or on the ice. 
When ready to serve remove the hard part from the 
stem end, turn each tomato upside down on a lettuce 
leaf, put a spoonful of mayonnaise on the top of the 
tomato, and serve at ohce. 

TOMATOES en SURPRISE 

I onion i cupful grated cheese 

I small green pepper i head lettuce 

I small cucumber H pint mayonnaise dressing 

6 solid tomatoes i teaspoonful paprika 

I saltspoonful salt 

Wash and remove the seeds from the pepper and chop 

it fine ; peel the cucumber and throw it into cold water ; 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 167 

scald and peel the tomatoes; when very cold, cut a 
slice from the stem end, remove the seeds and the 
hard core. Wash and dry the lettuce. Chop the 
cucumber; add it to the pepper; add the onion, 
chopped, half the paprika and the salt. Fill the mix- 
ture into the tomatoes. -Turn them upside down on 
the lettuce leaves. Mix two tablespoonfuls of mayon- 
naise and the paprika with the cheese; form into tiny 
balls ; stand one or two balls with each tomato on the 
lettuce leaves; put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise on 
top of each tomato and use at once. 

CEYLON TOMATO SALAD 

Peel the tomatoes, cut into halves and press out the 
seeds ; cut the flesh into dice and stand aside until very 
cold. When ready to serve, put a tablespoonful of 
the tomato into a crisp lettuce leaf, put on top a table- 
spoonful of Ceylon salad dressing, and send to the 
table. 

Crisp cucumbers may be chopped and served with 
Ceylon dressing as an accompaniment to mock fish. 

SPANISH SALAD 

I can pimientos % pint mayonnaise dressing 

I can macedoine 2 tablespoonfuls pow- 

Juice of one lemon dered gelatin 

Cover the gelatin with four tablespoonfuls of cold 

water; let it stand ten minutes, then add a cupful of 

boiling water. Stir until the gelatin is dissolved, and 

add the juice of the lemon. Remove the pimientos 

from the can, rinse carefully in cold water, and cut 

off the tops to make them even. Open one pimiento 

at a time, and put it in an after dinner coffee-cup or 



Digitized by 



Google 



168 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

a small round mould, allowing one to each person. 
Drain the macedoine and fill the cups. Add to the 
jelly a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of red 
pepper. Fill the cups with the jelly and stand aside to 
harden. At serving time, turn out on lettuce leaves 
and pass with them maycmnaise. The stuffing may be 
changed to give variety or to make a more substantial 
salad. You may use nuts, cheese, or other vegetables. 
A stuffing of apple and celery is very agreeable. 

A NICE SUPPER SALAD 

I head crisp lettuce 24 olives 

^ pint pecans and pine 2 good-sized tart apples 

nuts, mixed 2 heads celery 

yi pound almonds H teaspoonful paprika 

H teaspoonful salt 

Blanch the almonds ; dry and mix with the other nuts ; 
chop rather fine. Cut the celery into inch lengths and 
shred it; mix it with the nuts. Pare, core and slice 
the apples; add them to the mixture. Sprinkle over 
the paprika and then the salt, and, if you like, a table- 
spoonful of onion juice. Pour over six tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil. Toss until each piece of the salad is cov- 
ered with the oil, then put over the juice of a lemon. 
Mix again, and serve a tablespoonful in the centre of 
a crisp lettuce leaf. 

WALDORF SALAD 

The original Waldorf salad is made by mixing thin 
slices of tart apples with white mayonnaise dressing. 
It is always served without lettuce leaves. There are 
many imitations, however. Some are composed of 
chopped celery and apple served on lettuce leaves; 
others are a mixture of apple and lettuce with chopped 
English walnuts. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Put four tablespoonfuls of olive oil in a cold bowl ; if 
possible, put in a small piece of ice. Add a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and stir 
until the salt is dissolved, add a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar or lemon juice. Beat for at least three minutes 
until the dressing is as thick as good cream. Use 
at once. Dress dinner salads at the table if possible. 
They must be served as soon as dressed or the vege- 
tables wilt and become tough. 

ITALIAN DRESSING 

Rub sides and bottom of a bowl with a clove garlic, 
then put in a half teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of 
pepper and six tablespoonfuls of olive oil; add a 
piece of ice, if possible ; stir until the salt is dissolved, 
then add a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. 
Beat until thick; use at once. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Put the uncooked yolks of two or three eggs in a 
clean cold soup-dish; add a half saltspoonful of salt 
and a dash of cayenne. With a fork or spatula work 
all these well together and add, a teaspoonful at a 
time, a half pint of olive oil. . Stir constantly and 
rapidly while adding the oil. Be careful to thor- 
oughly incorporate each teaspoonful of oil before add- 
ing the next. Stir in at last one tablespoonful of 

ie9 



Digitized by 



Google 



170 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

vinegar or lemon juice. In warm weather, chill the 
eggs and the oil before mixing and stand the plate 
on ice. This dressing will keep several days if closely 
covered. 

Too miich vinegar or lemon juice thins the dress- 
ing. If a slightly sour salad is wanted, season the 
salad materials, not the dressing. 

Whipped cream may be added to mayonnaise when 
it is ready to be used. The cream must be well 
whipped and drained or it will thin the mayonnaise. 

WHITE MAYONNAISE 

Make a mayonnaise dressing, selecting light- 
colored eggs, and use lemon juice instead of vinegar. 
When the dressing is finished, add a drop of green 
coloring and a half pint of cream whipped to a stiff 
froth. This is used for Waldorf, yellow tomato and 
pineapple salad. 

FARMER'S DRESSING 

Yn pint milk 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

I tablespoonful cornstarch J^ teaspoonful salt 
Yolks of four eggs i saltspoonful pepper 

Juice of I lemon or 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

Put the milk in a double boiler; when hot add the 
cornstarch moistened in a little cold milk. Stir until 
smooth and thick; take from the fire; add the ^%% 
yolks, beaten, and stir again over hot water until the 
eggs are cooked and the dressing is thick. Take from 
the fire and add the butter, salt and pepper; when 
these are well mixed, add slowly the vinegar and stand 
away to cool. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALAD DRESSINGS 171 

CREAM DRESSING 

3 hard-boiled yolks of eggs i raw egg yolk 
H cup thick sweet cream Juice of half a lemon, or 

6 tablespoonfuls clarified 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

butter Yi teaspoonful salt 

I saltspoonful pepper 

Press the hard-boiled yolks through a sieve ; rub them 
with a spatula or spoon to a paste; add the raw yolk 
and then add slowly the cream and butter; mix the 
same as mayonnaise. When smooth and thick add 
the lemon juice or vinegar, salt and pepper. This 
dressing is used for crisp celery Or cabbage. 



SIDNEY SMITH'S SALAD DRESSING 

Press two hot and mealy boiled or baked potatoes 
through a sieve ; add a half teaspoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of onion juice and the raw yolks of two 
eggs. Rub these to a smooth paste. Add four table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil, or clarified butter, and two of 
vinegar. Press again through the sieve and put away 
to cool. Use on shaved cabbage or potato salad served 
at luncheon or supper. 

CEYLON DRESSING 

Grate one cocoanut and cover it with one quart of 
boiling water; stir well and wrap it in a piece of 
cheesecloth; wring it dry. Throw the grated cocoa- 
nut away. Put the "milk" in a pan in a cold place. 
When cold take off the "cream," add to it a very little 
salt and the juice of half a lemon. Use at once. This 
is very nice on grape fruit, oranges, pineapple, apple 
and celery, chopped tomatoes or cucumbers. 



Digitized by 



Google 



172 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

A GROUP OF PLANTS USED AS 
FLAVORINGS 

With the exception of garlic, chives and shallots, all 
these plants, if collected before flowering, may be 
dried and put away for winter use. 

Parsley, chervil, tarragon, capers, the fruit of the 
nasturtium (called mock capers), bay leaves (Laurus 
nobilis, Linn.), marjoram, summer savory, dill, fennel 
(of which the seeds only are used), sage, garlic 
(Allium sativum), shallots (Allium ascalonicum, 
Linn.), and chives (Allium schoenoprasum, Linn.) 
are seasonings. Most of these may be purchased in 
any market. With the exception of bay leaf, all may 
be grown in a kitchen garden. Five cents' worth of 
bay leaves from the druggist or grocer will last a year. 
They are used in stews, soups and sauces. 

Young mustard leaves (Brassica alba), sweet and 
bland, are nice alone or mixed with lettuce for salad. 

Water cress (Nasturtium officinale, R. Brown), 
when young, is quite sweet and pleasant. The old 
plants are too pungent to be eaten alone. Mix with 
chicory or young dandelions; they make an excellent 
dinner salad. 

Sorrel (Rumex acetosa, Linn.) is used in the 
Spring as flavoring to lettuce or com salad. 

HOW TO DRY HERBS 

During the summer, when herbs are in their highest 
state of perfection, full of juice, just before the flower- 
ing, they should be gathered for drying. The gather- 
ing should be done on a perfectly dry day, about two 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLAVORINGS AND GARNISHES 173 

days after a rain, early in the morning or after sun- 
down. Take the leaves from the stems and spread 
them out on boards covered with brown paper. Stand 
the boards in a warm oven, and dry quickly to pre- 
serve the flavor. When dry, put them into glass jars, 
screw down the tops and stand them at once in the 
kitchen closet. The bottles must be perfectly dry and 
the herbs cold when they are put in, or they will 
sweat and spoil. Mark the jars plainly on the outside 
to avoid confusion. 

GARNISHES FOR SALADS AND COLD EGG AND 
MOCK MEAT DISHES 

Aspic — ^A savory jelly used to garnish salads and 
other cold dishes. 

Fringed Celery — Very attractive on mock chicken 
salad and nut meats in aspic. 

Carrots — Blend nicely with green salads, as lettuce 
and chicory; boil and cut them into fancy shapes. 

Nasturtiums — Flowers are pretty on nut and apple 
salads; banana salad in banana skins looks well in a 
bed of nasturtium flowers. 

Hard-boiled egg — Used on cabbage, mock chicken 
and German potato salad. 

Parsley — Generally used for mock meat or tgg 
dishes ; chopped in creamed dishes or stews. 

Chervil (Myrrhis odorata, Linn.) is a pungent 
aromatic plant just a little like anise; is agreeable with 
lettuce or tgg dishes. 

Tarragon (Artemisia dracunculus) is used for 
salads. A handful in a quart of vinegar will last a 
year. The leaves may also be dried and powdered for 



Digitized by 



Google 



174 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

sauces and stews. Tarragon vinegar can be purchased 
of any grocer. 

Capers — ^Used to garnish mock chicken salad. 

Pimientos — Cut into strips are pretty on lettuce, 
chicory, or mock chicken salads. Chopped and 
sprinkled over boiled rice for curry or in stews they 
not only garnish but flavor as well. 

FLAVORINGS FOR SWEET DISHES 
Angelica (Archangelica officinalis, Linn.) is a 
plant somewhat like rhubarb in size and appearance. 
It is conserved and used in small quantities to flavor 
puddings ; cut into fancy shapes it is used as a sweet- 
meat and to decorate cakes and cold puddings. 

VANILLA SUGAR 

Split two good oily vanilla beans into halves length- 
wise on a white platter or a sheet of white paper. 
The seeds contain the greater portion of the aroma 
and flavor. Being small and black they cannot be 
seen on a dark surface. With a silver knife scrape 
them out and mix them at once with a half pound of 
loaf sugar. Beat this in a mortar until the sugar is 
well broken and dark. Bottle and cork tightly. 

The bean shells may be broken into bits, put into 
a bottle with half alcohol and half water, to use at 
once. This will keep for a month but not longer. 

VANILLA EXTRACT 

Cut four good vanilla beans into halves, then into bits, 
being careful not to lose the seeds. Put them in a 
quart fruit- jar with a glass top; add a pint of good 
alcohol. Adjust the rubber and fasten the top securely. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREADS 

For convenience I have added a small department for 
breads. For a greater variety of recipes and the rea- 
sons why, I refer you to my book on Bread-making. 

YEASTS (saccharomyces) 
Yeasts are living plants belonging to the large group 
of fungi, so called, because they do not contain 
chlorophyl, the green coloring matter of plants. One 
variety (known as Saccharomyces cerevisiae) is best 
adapted to bread-making. It is quite impossible, how- 
ever, for anyone to put out for household purposes 
a perfectly pure growth of yeast; because the air is 
filled with wild yeast plants which are continually 
dropping into the sponge and on the pans and utensils 
which are used for bread-making. The moist com- 
pressed yeasts rolled in tin-foil are perhaps the best 
of the commercial varieties. The dry yeasts, especially 
the cakes, are not active because so many of the plants 
die in the drying. For this reason they are slow and 
rather unsatisfactory. The compressed yeast is also 
known as German yeast, and, being compressed, con- 
tains many more yeast plants than can be obtained 
in the same volume of dry or liquid yeasts. 

The term "sponge" is used in bread-making to 
denote a batter that can be beaten and dropped from 
a spoon. "Dough" is a batter sufficiently thick to be 
kneaded with the hands. With compressed yeast the 
best bread is made by making a dough at once, while 
with the dry yeast a sponge gives better results. 

175 



Digitized by 



Google 



176 MRS. rorer's vegbtable cookery 

HOME-MADE YEAST 

To make good home-made yeast, grate four medium- 
sized potatoes into a quart of boiling water. Bring 
to boiling-point, and when cool, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and half a 
cake of compressed yeast or one dry yeast-cake that 
has been soaked in warm water for half an hour, or 
you may use a half cupful of left-over home-made 
yeast. Stand this in a jar in a warm place and beat 
it down each time it comes to the top of the jar until 
it ceases to bubble. Screw down the lid of the jar and 
stand it in a cold place. For four loaves of bread, 
use one cupful. Save a cupful of this yeast to use as 
a starter for yeast again. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

On account of the different conditions of flour it is 
impossible to give an accurate quantity. You must 
use your judgment to a certain extent, keeping the 
amount of yeast and liquid uniform. For instance, 
the quantity following will make four box loaves of 
bread. If you wish to make eight, double the yeast, 
the liquid, the salt and the flour. 

Scald one pint of milk ; add one pint of water and 
a half teaspocttiful of salt; and when the mixture is 
lukewarm add one cake of compressed yeast moistened 
in two tablespoonfuls of warm water. Add sufficient 
flour to make a batter and beat thoroughly for ten 
minutes. Cover and stand in a warm place for two 
and a half hours. Then add sufficient flour to make a 
soft dough. Knead this dough quickly until it loses 
its stickiness. Divide it into three or four loaves; 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREADS 177 

put each loaf in a square pan; cover and stand for 
an hour in the same warm place, about 75** Fahr., 
until it has doubled in bulk; brush the top quickly 
with warm water and put it in a hot oven. When 
brown, reduce the heat and bake three-quarters of an 
hour. Turn each loaf from the pan ; stand on a board 
covered with a cloth, but do not cover the loaves. It is 
better to tip the bread, so that the air may circulate 
around the entire loaf. This makes a nice crisp crust. 

WITH DRY YEAST 

Put two cakes of dry yeast in a half cupful of warm 
water; let soak half an hour; then add six or eight 
tablespoonfuls of whole wheat flour; beat and stand 
aside for two hours. This should be kept at a tem- 
perature of about 80** Fahr. At bedtime scald a pint of 
milk; when lukewarm add a pint of lukewarm water 
and the "starting" sponge, which by this time should be 
very light. Add a half teaspoonful of salt and a table- 
spoonful of sugar. Sugar is objectionable in bread, 
but with dry yeast sometimes seems necessary to 
encourage the growth of the plant. Now proceed as 
in the first recipe, making a sponge which should be 
covered and kept at about 65° or 70° Fahr. over night. 
Early in the morning add flour, knead, divide into 
loaves, and finish precisely the same ^s in preceding 
recipe. 

WHITE BREAD 
Scald a pint of milk. Add to it a pint of water, a 
half teaspoonful of salt, and, when lukewarm, one 
cake of compressed yeast moistened in two tablespoon- 
fuls of warm water. Add sufficient flour to make a 
12 



Digitized by 



Google 



178 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

batter and beat thoroughly ; then continue adding flour 
until you have a stiff dough. Turn this dough out on 
a board and knead continuously until it loses its sticki- 
ness and becomes soft and elastic. Brush a bowl with 
melted butter, put in the dough and brush the top of 
the dough with melted butter. Cover and stand in 
about 75® Fahr. for three hours. Then divide it into 
three or four loaves. Put each loaf into a greased 
box-pan, brush the top with melted butter, cover and 
stand about one hour in the same warm place until it 
has doubled its bulk. Put the loaves into a quick oven 
until brown; then reduce the heat and bake three- 
quarters of an hour. Turn out on a board or tilt them 
against the pans so that the air may circulate around 
them. Do not add sugar nor shortening to bread. It 
spoils its digestibility and prevents it from keeping. 
Dry bread that crumbles the second day after 
baking contains too much flour ; probably added while 
kneading. 

WITH DRY YEAST 
Manipulate precisely the same as for whole wheat 
bread with dry yeast. 

GLUTEN BREAD 

Scald a pint of milk, and when lukewarm add one 
cake of compressed yeast moistened in a half cupful 
of lukewarm water. Add a half teaspoonful of salt 
and two cupfuls of gluten flour. Beat thoroughly 
and stand in a warm place until very very light — for 
two and a half to three hours. Then add the well- 
beaten whites of two eggs arid sufficient flour to make 
a dough that can be manipulated with a spoon; it 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREADS 179 

must be too thick to beat and not sufficiently thick 
to knead. Pour this into greased square pans, filling 
them half full ; cover and stand in a warm place until 
very light. You can tell this by lifting the pan. When 
the dough seems to have lost its weight and the pan is 
light, put it into a moderately quick oven and bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Gluten bread, to be per- 
fect, must be rather coarse grained, perfectly light 
and well baked. It will always be more or less sticky 
on account of the gluten. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

To make one Graham loaf, put a pint of whole wheat 
sponge, after it is light, into a bowl. Add a table- 
spoonful of New Orleans molasses and sufficient 
Graham flour to make a stiff batter, one that can be 
manipulated with a spoon, but not kneaded. Turn 
this into a square greased pan, cover and stand in a 
warm place. When it has doubled its bulk and is 
light, brush the top with water and bake in a moderate 
oven three-quarters of an hour. 

CORN LOAF 

Scald one pint of milk; when hot, add a half cupful 
of cornmeal. Stir until it reaches the boiling-point; 
take from the fire and add another pint of milk. 
When lukewarm, add a half teaspoonful of salt and 
one compressed yeast cake moistened in a half cupful 
of warm water. Add sufficient white flour to make 
a dough. Knead lightly. Grease the bowl with 
melted butter and put in the dough. Brush the top of 
the dough with melted butter, cover and stand in a 



Digitized by 



Google 



180 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

warm place — ^about 75*" Fahr. — for three hours. Then 
divide it into three loaves and put into greased square 
pans. Brush the top of each loaf with a little melted 
butter and cover. When they have doubled their 
bulk, bake them in a moderately quick oven three- 
quarters of an hour. If bread is suflSciently light when 
it goes in the oven, it must be crusted quickly, or it 
will crack at the side. 

RYE BREAD 

Make rye bread precisely the same as whole wheat 
bread, using rye flour instead of whole wheat. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

This recipe will answer for Parker House rolls, tea 
rolls, tea biscuits — in fact, any small light roll. It 
may also be made into Vienna rolls. The manipula- 
tion and baking of all these are practically the same. 
Scald a pint of niilk; add to it, while hot, four 
tablespoonfuls of butter, a half teaspoonful of salt and 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When lukewarm, add 
one compressed yeast cake moistened in a half cupful 
of lukewarm water, or you may add two dry yeast 
cakes that have been made into a "starting" sponge. 
Add three cupfuls of flour, beating all the while. 
Then add sufiicient flour to make a dough. Turn this 
out on a board and knead continuously fifteen or 
twenty minutes until the dough is soft, elastic, and free 
from stickiness. Put it back in the bowl; cover and 
stand in a temperature of about 80® Fahr. for two and 
a half to three hours, until very light. Then turn the 
dough carefully on a board, roll it out, cut into rounds, 
and press a knife handle down in the centre of 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREADS 181 

each round. Brush one half of each round with a 
little melted butter, and fold over the other half, 
pressing it down. Stand these in a pan where they will 
not touch each other, cover, and stand in a warm 
place until very light — about one hour. Brush the tops 
lightly with milk and bake in a very quick oven 
fifteen minutes. 

This dough may be made into small round biscuits 
a little larger than an English walnut, each biscuit 
put into a greased gem pan and baked as tea rolls. 

QUICK BREADS 

UNLEAVENED WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

Mix a half pint of milk with a half pint of water. 
Rub into one quart of flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
table butter or nut butter; add gradually the milk 
and water. You must have a hard, almost dry, dough. 
Knead this dough for fifteen minutes, then pound it 
with a hatchet or ordinary beefsteak pounder, folding 
it over, enveloping the air. Cut the dough into 
quarters ; roll each piece just as thin as possible. Cut 
into rounds or squares, lay them in a lightly greased 
pan, and bake in a moderate oven until crisp and 
slightly brown. One flour may be substituted for 
another. The only thing to be remembered is that 
the dough must be very hard and must be well 
manipulated. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

Put two rounded teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and 
a half teaspoonful of salt into a quart of flour. Sift 
once or twice. Rub in quickly two tablespoonfuls of 



Digitized by 



Google 



182 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

shortening, either table butter, cocoanut butter, or nut 
butter, or, if you have cream, omit the shortening and 
moisten the flour with the cream. After adding the 
shortening, add a cup and a half of milk. The dough 
must be moist but not wet. Add the milk gradually, 
because if you have too much milk and you add it all 
at one time you cannot add more flour to the dough, 
or the biscuits will be hard and tough. Turn the bis- 
cuits out on a floured board and roll them quickly 
into a sheet a half inch thick ; cut with a small round 
cutter. Brush the tops of the biscuits with milk and 
bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. This recipe will 
answer for rye, Graham, whole wheat and white flour. 

TEA GEMS 

1 pint milk i teaspoonful salt 

4 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 

2 cupful s cornmeal powder 

I cupful white flour i tablespoonful butter 

Separate the eggs; beat the yolks and add the milk, 
salt and butter, melted. Add the cornmeal, baking- 
powder and flour sifted together. Beat rapidly for 
about two minutes. Then fold in the well beaten 
whites of the eggs and bake in greased gem pans in 
a quick oven for a half hour. 

WHOLE WHEAT GEMS 

2 eggs I tablespoonful nut or 

^ pint milk dairy butter 

2 teaspoonfuls baking- i^ cupfuls whole wheat 

powder flour 

^ teaspoonful salt 

Separate the eggs; beat the yolks and add the milk, 

salt and butter, melted. Then beat in the flour. 

When smooth, put the baking-powder in the centre, 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREADS 183 

fold over the batter, and beat quickly. Add the well 
beaten whites of the eggs and bake at once in twelve 
greased gem pans for thirty minutes in a quick oven. 

DATE GEMS 

2 eggs 1 5^ cups flour 

% pound dates 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 

I cup milk powder 

Separate the eggs. Beat the yolks ; add the milk, the 
flour, and beat until smooth; add the baking-powder 
and the dates, chopped. Mix thoroughly and fold in 
the well beaten whites. Bake in twelve greased gem 
pans, in a quick oven, thirty minutes. Serve hot. 
Chopped raisins may be substituted for dates. 

FRUIT GEMS 

Add a cupful of chopped raisins, figs or currants to 
the above recipe, and bake in eighteen gem pans. 

MUSH BREAD 

I pint milk ^ pint granulated, yellow or 

4 eggs white. Southern corn- 

H teaspoonful salt meal 

Put the milk in a double boiler; when hot, stir in the 
cornmeal. Cook until it will drop from a spoon. Take 
from the fire, add the salt and the yolks of the eggs. 
Mix thoroughly, and fold in gradually the well beaten 
whites of the eggs. Turn this into a baking-dish, bake 
in a moderately quick oven for forty minutes. Serve 
in the dish in which it is baked. This bread should 
be served from the pan with a spoon. It is known in 
the South as "spoon bread." 



Digitized by 



Google 



184 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

POP OVERS 

I cupful milk 3 eggs 

I cupful flour I saltspoonful salt 

Beat the eggs without separating until light; add the 
milk. Pour this gradually into the flour, to which the 
salt has been added, beating all the while. Strain 
through a sieve. Grease the cups, which should be 
iron gem-pans or china cups, put them in the oven, 
and, when very hot, take them out and fill them 
quickly half full of this thin batter. Put them back 
in the oven and bake three-quarters of an hour. They 
should be at least four times their original size. If 
they fall, they are not thoroughly done. If the oven 
is too hot, they will not swell ; if the oven is too cold, 
they will be simply a custard. You must learn to 
regulate the oven with an indicator or a thermometer. 
With a chemical thermometer the oven should register 
360® Fahr. ; with an oven indicator the hand will be at 
seven at the start, and gradually increase until it 
reaches eight. 

SCOTCH OAT-CAKE 

54 pound Scotch or Irish 5^ teaspoonful salt 

oatmeal % teaspoonful bicarbonate 

I tablespoonful butter soda 

Put the meal in a bowl. Put the butter and the soda 
in a cup; fill the cup half full of boiling water, and 
when the soda is dissolved and the butter melted, pour 
them quickly into the meal. Add the salt. Take the 
mixture on a board and knead it until it holds 
together. Dust the board with dry meal, roll out the 
oat-cakes into a thin sheet and cut with a sharp knife 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREADS 185 

into cakes two inches square. Lift them on a cake 

turner, put them in a greased pan and bake in a 

moderate oven until thoroughly baked and slightly 

browned. 

Whole wheat nut wafers may be made in the same 

manner. 

GRAHAM WAFERS 

J4 cup butter or nut butter i teaspoonful bicarbonate 
I cup sugar soda 

1 egg 2 tablespoonfuls milk 

Graham flour 

Beat the butter to a cream; add the egg, and beat 
again until light. Gradually beat in the sugar. Dis- 
solve the soda in two tablespoonfuls of water, and 
add it to the sugar mixture. Add the milk, and work 
in sufficient Graham flour — ^about three cupfuls — to 
make a very stiff dough. Knead until the mixture will 
hold together. Roll into a very thin sheet and cut 
into two-inch squares. Lift carefully with a cake 
turner, put into slightly greased pans and bake in a 
moderate oven until thoroughly crisp and lightly 
browned — about eight minutes. 

OATMEAL WAFERS 

Substitute rolled oats for Graham flour, and manipu- 
late precisely the same as for Graham wafers. 

SPONGE CAKE 

10 good-sized eggs Grated rind and juice one 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar lemon 

2 cupfuls flour 

Separate the eggs ; beat the yolks with an egg-beater 
until thick and creamy. Add gradually the sugar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



186 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

beating all the while. Sift the flour twice. Add the 
grated yellow rind and the juice of the lemon to the 
sugar and eggs. Then fold in the well beaten whites, 
dust in lightly the flour, and turn at once into a 
Turk's-head or angel's food pan, and bake in a moder- 
ately quick oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

A LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

J4 cupful butter 2^ cupful s flour 

I cupful water 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 

Ij4 cupfuls sugar powder • 

Whites of five eggs 

Cream the butter; add gradually the sugar. Add the 
water, the flour and the baking-powder, sifted. Beat 
continuously for five minutes. Fold in the well beaten 
whites. Add a teaspoonful of bitter almond flavoring, 
and bake in three layers. 

Filling — ^Whip a pint of cream to a stiff froth. 
Add a half cupful of powdered sugar, a teaspoonful 
of vanilla, half a cupful of shredded citron and half a 
cupful of seeded layer raisins cut into halves. When 
the cake is cold, put between the layers a thick layer of 
this filling. Dust the top with powdered sugar. If 
cream is not at hand, boiled icing may be used in its 
place. 

OLD-TIME WHIGS 

1 cupful sugar i compressed yeast cake 
}4 cupful butter i pint milk 

2 eggs I teaspoonful cinnamon 

Scald the milk, add the butter, and when lukewarm 
add the yeast moistened in, a half cup of warm water. 
Add the sugar and a pint and a half of flour. Beat 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREADS 187 

well ; cover in a warm place for three hours ; add the 
eggs, well beaten, and the cinnamon. Cover for 
another hour and bake in gem-pans in a quick oven. 

MOLASSES GINGER CAKE 

I cupful New Orleans i cupful boiling water 

molasses 3 cupfuls flour 

I tablespoonful ginger i level teaspoonful bicar- 
3 tablespoonfuls butter bonate soda 

Dissolve the soda in a little cold water. Add the 
butter to the boiling water; when melted add the 
soda and the molasses. Beat and add ginger and 
flour. Bake in a shallow pan in a moderate oven half 
an hour. 

SOUR MILK GINGER COOKIES 

1 quart New Orleans i pint sour milk 

molasses 2 quarts flour 

% pound butter i level tablespoonful bicar- 

2 tablespoonfuls ginger bonate soda 

Put the molasses, butter and ginger in a saucepan; 
heat gently; add the milk, then the soda dissolved in 
a quarter cup of cold water. Take from the fire, 
and when lukewarm work in the flour. Roll out, 
using enough flour to prevent sticking. Cut and bake 
ten minutes in a quick oven. 

NUT MERINGUES 

6 whites of eggs i pound almonds 

I pound powdered sugar 

Blanch, dry and chop the almonds ; beat the eggs to a 
very stiff froth; sift in the sugar, mix carefully, and 
then add gently the almonds. Drop by spoonfuls on 
oiled paper, and bake in a moderate oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



188 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

DATE TARTS 

^ pound dates i loaf sandwich bread 

I tumbler quince or cur- ^ pound almonds and 

rant jelly pecans, mixed 

Trim the crusts from the loaf of bread; cut it into 
slices and cut each slice into rounds or stars. Cut a 
small round from the centre of half these slices, using 
a biscuit-cutter not more than an inch and a half in 
diameter. Stone the dates, put them through a meat 
chopper, adding the almonds, blanched, and the 
pecans. Add enough orange juice or water to make 
this into a paste. Spread the solid rounds or stars 
with this date mixture. Butter the other slices, put 
the butter side next to the fruit mixture and press 
them together. Put a teaspoonful of jelly in the small 
hole, and serve plain or with nut cream. These are 
nice for children's parties or luncheons. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SANDWICHES 

The square loaf cuts to the best advantage for 
squares, fingers or triangles. The whole crust may 
be removed at first or each sandwich may be trimmed. 
For fancy shapes or rounds, cut slices lengthwise the 
loaf and spread after they are shaped. Cream 
the butter before using it. Hard butter does not 
spread easily and is apt to tear the bread. For 
ordinary sandwiches it is best to butter the slice on 
the loaf, then cut it off as thin as possible. 

Sandwiches will keep for hours perfectly fresh if 
wrapped in a damp napkin or towel and placed in a 
tin box in a cold place. 

Sweet and highly seasoned sandwiches must not 
be kept in the same box. 

BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER 

Remove the first slice or crust from the bottom of 
the loaf. Spread the bottom of the loaf with soft 
butter and with a sharp, thin knife cut off a slice. 
Cut this slice into halves and put the buttered sides 
together. 

BROWN BREAD AND NUTS 
Put chopped pecans or peanut butter between slices of 
brown bread, instead of plain butter. 

FARMER'S SANDWICHES 

Rub to a smooth paste a half pint of cottage cheese, 
adding gradually four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
or olive oil, or thick cream ; add salt and black pepper. 

189 



Digitized by 



Google 



190 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

Spread the loaf with butter, after you have removed 
the crust slice; cut off a thin slice, spread it thickly 
with the cheese mixture, lay over it, if you have them, 
watercress leaves; cut the slices into halves and press 
the cheese sides together. 

CLUB SANDWICHES 

Toast slices of white bread and butter while hot. Put 
on one slice a thin layer of pecan sausage, then a 
lettuce leaf, a teaspoonful of mayonnaise, and then 
another slice of buttered toast. Press the sandwich 
together, trim off the crust and cut into halves from 
one comer to opposite, making triangles. Serve warm. 

COLONIAL ROLLS 

Cut fresh light bread while still warm into very thin 
slices ; butter with soft butter, roll each slice, and tie 
with narrow ribbon. 

DATE SANDWICHES 

Put one pound of stoned dates through a meat 
chopper, add the juice of one orange and rub to a 
paste. Spread this mixture between slices of buttered 
bread; cut into squares, or rounds, or fingers. These 
are nice to serve with cocoa or chocolate for an 
evening or as dessert. 

BOBOTEE SANDWICHES 

Put through a meat chopper two Spanish sweet pep- 
pers, a half pint of blanched almonds, one small onion, 
and one sour apple. Season this mixture with a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder, a half teaspoonful of salt 
and the juice of one lemon. Mix again and put 



Digitized by 



Google 



SANDWICHES 191 

between thin slices of buttered whole wheat or Graham 
bread. Trim off the crust and cut into triangles. 

DATE AND FIG SANDWICHES 

Put a half pound of dates, an equal quantity of 
washed figs, and a quarter pound of blanched almonds 
through a meat chopper; add the juice of an orange 
or a little warm water and pack the mixture into a 
half-pound baking-powder box. Dip 'the box in hot 
water, turn out the mixture and cut it into thin slices. 
Cut thin slices of buttered bread, put a slice of the 
date mixture between two slices of bread and press 
together. These take the place of cookies for chil- 
dren and are much better and more wholesome. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Hard boil six eggs. Put through a vegetable press, or 
chop very fine. Put a leaf of lettuce on a thin slice of 
buttered bread, over this a teaspoonful of mayonnaise, 
then a layer of the chopped egg. Dust with salt and 
pepper and lay on another slice of buttered bread. 
Press together and trim off the crust. Cut into 
fingers or triangles. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES 

All kinds of mixed dried fruits may be soaked in water 
for an hour or two, then chopped or ground and used 
for sandwich filling. Season with lemon, orange, or 
a little grape juice. Raisins, currants, dried cherries, 
prunes, and prunelles may be used singly or blended. 
In blending use a sweet and a sour fruit, as cherries 
and prunes, raisins and prunes, or prunelles and 
prunes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



192 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

Fresh fruits may be sliced and put between slices 
of buttered bread, or between slices of sponge cake, 
or between lady fingers. Raspberries are very nice. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Put a half pound of American cheese through a meat 
chopper ; add to it one tablespoonf ul of tomato catsup, 
a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoonful 
of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter or 
olive oil. Mix well and put between slices of buttered 
bread. 

SWISS CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Put very thin slices of Swiss cheese between buttered 
slices of rye bread. German mustard may be added 
if desired. The sandwiches are more wholesome 
without it. 

CHEESE AND EGG SANDWICHES 

Put a quarter potmd of cheese through a meat 
chopper; add to it four tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter or olive oil, three hard-boiled egg yolks mashed, 
a teaspoonful of Worcestershire, a saltspoonful of salt, 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Mix well and use 
between thin slices of Graham or rye bread. 

HONOLULU SANDWICHES 

Put one sour pared apple, one red Spanish pepper, 
one green sweet pepper, and one Neufchatel cheese 
through a meat chopper. Add a half teaspoonful of 
salt; mix and spread between thin slices of buttered 
white or brown bread. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SANDWICHES 193 

JAM SANDWICHES 

Spread thin slices of bread with jam ; put on each an 
unbuttered slice, trim off the crust and cut into 
triangles. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Wash and dry fresh crisp lettuce; put a leaf with a 
teaspoonful of mayonnaise between two slices of thin 
buttered bread. 

LETTUCE AND WALNUT SANDWICHES 

Cover each leaf of lettuce with finely chopped walnuts 
mixed with a little mayonnaise, and put between thin 
slices of buttered bread. 

MINT SANDWICHES 

Chop the leaves from a dozen stalks of fresh mint, 
add a little French dressing; spread a thin layer over 
buttered bread, fold the slice or roll it. Serve with 
green pea salad at an afternoon or evening tea or 
luncheon. 

NUT SANDWICHES 

Chop any nuts you may have at hand. Moisten with 
cream, mayonnaise, or cocoanut cream; add a little 
salt, and put between thin slices of buttered bread. 
Trim off the crust and cut into fancy shapes. 

ROLLED NUT SANDWICHES 

Cut fresh bread in thin slices with a sharp knife, or 
steam slices of bread one day old. This may be done 
in a sieve or colander over a kettle of hot water. 

18 



Digitized by 



Google 



194 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

Butter quickly, spread with nut paste as in preceding 
recipe, roll at once and tie with baby or very narrow 
ribbon. Trim off the crust before rolling. 

PEANtJT SANDWICHES 
Spread peanut butter between thin slices of white or 
whole wheat bread, or water-thin or other crackers. 

TOMATO SANDWICHES 

Peel and slice solid small round tomatoes ; take out the 
seeds; cut slices of bread and put on each slice a 
slice of tomato; fill the spaces from which the seeds 
were taken with mayonnaise; put over another but- 
tered slice and press lightly. These are sightly and 
palatable. The tomato may be seasoned with onion 
or chives and the bread cut into rounds. 

VEGETABLE SANDWICH ROLLS 

Qiop two cold boiled potatoes and mix with an equal 
quantity of well cooked or canned peas; do not mash 
the peas ; add, if you have them, one or two boiled or 
pickled beets, chopped, and suflScient cream salad 
dressing to moisten the vegetables. Cut a slice from 
the top of butter rolls and scoop out the crumb. Be 
careful not to break the crust. The roll should be just 
a crust shell. Fill the roll nearly full with the vege- 
table mixture; on top of this put a tablespoonful of 
shredded lettuce or finely chopped celery, or some small 
crisp leaves of chicory ; replace the top and serve. 

WINDSOR SANDWICHES 

Butter and cut thin slices of bread; cut thin slices of 
pecan sausage; have ready some dry crisp lettuce 



Digitized by 



Google 



SANDWICHES IdS 

leaves and a half pint of mayonnaise. Put a slice of 
nut sausage on a slice of buttered bread; lay on a 
lettuce leaf, then a teaspoonful of mayonnaise, then 
another slice of buttered bread, butter side up ; on this 
put another leaf of lettuce, a teaspoonful of mayon- 
naise and another slice of bread. Press together, trim 
off the crust, and cut each sandwich into three strips. 
These are usually tied with baby ribbon. 

A FEW SANDWICHES 
EXTRAORDINARY 

CLOVER SANDWICHES 

Pick a good-sized basket of fresh sweet clover. Be 
sure that it is free from sand. Put a thick layer in a 
large stone crock. Lay over this a pound of sweet 
butter wrapped in cheesecloth. Spread over more 
clover. Trim the crust from a loaf of bread, put it 
in the crock and cover it with a liberal quantity of 
clover; cover the crock and stand it in a cold place 
over night. When wanted for use make the same as 
bread-and-butter sandwiches. These are usually cut 
into three strips — what are called "finger" sandwiches. 
Violet and rose sandwiches are made the same, 
except a few petals of the flowers are spread over the 
butter. 

NASTURTIUM SANDWICHES 

Mash one Neufchatel cheese, adding salt, pepper and 
almond milk. Put a layer of this paste, covered with 
nasturtium flowers, between two thin slices of but- 
tered bread. Trim off the crust and cut each into 
four triangles ; each triangle should contain one flower. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 



All fruits may be canned with or without sugar, as the 
occasion demands. The fruits must be sterile, and this 
is most easily accomplished in the household by heat. 
Preservatives of all kinds are more or less dangerous 
and are never to be recommended. It is a slovenly 
housekeeper who uses "preserving powders," and runs 
the risk of making her family ill, rather than to take 
time and pains with the fruit. 

One recipe will answer for all kinds of fruit. 

TO CAN SMALL FRUITS WITHOUT SUGAR 

First select perfectly ripe, fresh fruits, free from decay 
and mould. Look them over and if sandy put them in 
a sieve or colander. Plunge them into a pan of cold 
water. Lift them out and plunge in the second time, 
draining carefully. Pack the fruit in perfectly clean 
glass jars, adjust the rubbers and lay on the lids, but 
do not screw down or fasten tightly. Stand the 
jars in a wash-boiler, the bottom of which has been 
protected by a rack. Surround the jars half way up 
with cold water. Cover the boiler, bring water to 
boiling-point and boil five minutes. If the rack has 
a centre handle, lift all the jars carefully, fill two jars 
from a third jar and screw down the tops. Put the 
jars back in the boiler and boil ten minutes. If the 

196 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 197 

rack IS simply of wooden home-made construction, lift 
three jars at a time. When you take off the lids do 
not put them on the table unless you turn them upside 
down. The table and the air contain spores of both 
moulds and yeasts which, if they fall on the lid or 
come in contact with it, will cause the contents of the 
jar to ferment. 

TO CAN SMALL FRUITS WITH SUGAR 

Wash and drain the berries as directed in preceding 
recipe. Allow a half pound of sugar to each pound 
of fruit. Put a layer of sugar and fruit in the jars, 
and then proceed precisely as in preceding recipe. 
Greater care must be taken, as the yeast plants grow in 
saccharine solutions, and fruits with a little sugar are 
more difficult to keep than either preserves or those 
canned without sugar. 

TO CAN LARGE FRUITS WITHOUT SUGAR 

This recipe will answer for peaches and plums : 

Put the fruit in a wire basket or colander and 
plunge it down into boiling water. Peel off the skins ; 
remove the stones from the peaches and pack the halves 
at once into the jars. Fill the jars with cold water, 
adjust the rubbers, and lay on the tops. Put them in 
the boiler on the rack and surround them with cold 
water. Cover the boiler, bring to a boil and boil for 
ten minutes. Lift one jar at a time and screw down 
the top without removing it. Put jars back into the 
boiler and boil fifteen minutes longer. 



Digitized by 



Google 



198 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

TO CAN PEACHES AND PLUMS WITH SUGAR 

Weigh the peaches and plums after they are peeled 
and stoned. Allow a half pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit. Put the sugar in the preserving kettle 
and add a very little water — about a half cupful to a 
pound. Lay in the peaches a few at a time. When 
hot, arrange them in the jars. The syrup will become 
more liquid as you go on cooking the fruit. When 
you have filled the last jar, bring the syrup to a boil, 
and fill the jars to overflowing. Adjust the rubbers, 
taking them from boiling water ; adjust the lids, taking 
them from boiling water and screw them down. Stand 
the jars in a wash-boiler, surround them partly with 
boiling water, cover the boiler and boil twenty minutes. 

TO CAN PEARS 

Pare and cut the fruit into halves; remove the cores 
and throw the halves at once into cold water to pre- 
vent discoloration. When you have eleven good-sized 
pears ready put them into a porcelain-lined kettle, 
cover with boiling water and cook slowly for ten min- 
utes. While these are cooking, make a syrup from a 
pound of sugar and a quart of water ; boil and skim. 
Lift each piece of pear with a skimmer, arrange 
them neatly in the jars, fill the jars with the syrup, 
adjust the rubbers and screw down the tops. Stand 
the jars in a wash-boiler, on the rack ; surround them 
partly with boiling water. Cover the boiler and boil 
ten minutes after the water begins to boil. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 199 

JELLY-MAKING 

Jelly-making is divided into two classes. In the first 
class, fruits containing pectose, a jelly-making mate- 
rial, we have guavas, crab-apples, quinces, Japanese 
quinces, lady blush apples, pippins, black currants and 
wild grapes (fox and chicken grapes). These are all 
easily made into jelly. In the other class, a large 
group containing very little pectose, some pectin and 
a fair quantity of acid, we have the dark and white ripe 
grapes, raspberries, strawberries, currants and cran- 
berries. Some of these fruits contain pectose, but they 
also contain a fair quantity of fruit sugar and acid. 
To make jelly easily from acid fruits they must be 
selected just a little under-ripe and should be perfectly 
fresh from the vines, the juice boiled without the 
sugar, and the sugar added at the last. The heat and 
the acid of the fruit will frequently split the sugar into 
lezmlose and dextrose, which prevent the jelly from 
forming. They make a syrup, not a jelly, and con- 
tinued boiling does not improve it. 

If jelly fails to form at first, it cannot be reheated. 
If sugar crystals form in the cold jelly, too much sugar 
has been used. 

If dust falls in jelly^ while it is cooling and paraffine 
is put on top, the jelly will sour and spoil. 

Cool under glass or in a clean room. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY 

Wash the apples, cut them into quarters, remove the 
cores, but do not pare them. Weigh and put them 
into a porcelain-lined kettle, allowing to each pound 
one pint of cold water. Cover the kettle, boil twenty 



Digitized by 



Google 



200 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

minutes; stir. Drain over night. Next morning 
measure the liquid and put it over the fire in a por- 
celain-lined kettle. Boil twenty minutes. Add a half 
pound of sugar to each pint of juice; boil ten min- 
utes longer and begin to try the jelly. Put a teaspoon- 
ful in a saucer, and stand it in the cold. If it solidi- 
fies at once, remove the jelly from the fire, and pour 
it into the glass tumblers. Keep on trying it until it 
solidifies quickly. You may also try it by dropping 
it from a spoon. If, while hot, it drops in "chunks" 
and does not pour, it will be a solid jelly. When the 
jelly is cold, put a teaspoonful of formaldehyde into 
a pint of water. Take a perfectly clean piece of 
linen, dip it into the water mixture and wipe off the 
inside of the tumblers and the surface of the jelly. 
Fasten the tumblers with rounds of tissue paper. 
When all are fastened, dip a soft brush into the formal- 
dehyde water and brush the tops of the papers. These 
will dry, shrink, and tighten. Be careful not to get 
too much formaldehyde on the jelly. It is not a dan- 
gerous poison, but all you want is to make sure that 
the top is clean and free from mould. Keep the jelly 
in a perfectly clean, dry closet, not necessarily dark. 
Damp, dark closets are conducive to mould. 

Apple, quince, black currant, and Japanese quince 
jelly are all made after the same recipe. 

RED CURRANT JELLY 

Heat and mash the currants. Drain over night, allow 
a pint of sugar to each pint of juice. Boil the juice 
twenty minutes; add sugar, and finish the same as 
crab-apple jelly. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 201 

PRESERVING 

This word is used when we put up fruit pound for 
pound — that is, use a pound of sugar to each pound 
of fruit. In these days we rarely ever make pre- 
serves. They are not wholesome. We have out- 
grown our digestions for foods of this kind. One 
recipe will answer for all kinds of fruit. 

TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES 

Select large red strawberries, free from sand. Stem 
them carefully, weigh, and allow to each pound of 
berries a pound of sugar. Heat large stoneware plat- 
ters. Sprinkle over a layer of sugar and a layer of 
strawberries; then another layer of sugar, and per- 
haps a second layer of strawberries, keeping the 
weights pound for pound. Cover the platters with 
glass and stand them in the hot sun, bringing them 
in as soon as the sun goes down. If the strawberries 
are not clear and transparent the next morning, stand 
the platters in the oven. When the strawberries are 
tender and clear, lift them one at a time with a fork, 
place them in small tumblers or half pint jars. Bring 
the syrup to a boil, skim, and fill the jars or tumblers 
at once. Fasten with paper the same as jelly, or if 
in jars screw down the lids. 

Very ripe peaches and yellow gages are nice when 
preserved according to this rule. 

. FRUIT BUTTERS 
Fruit butters are usually made from very ripe fruit, in 
the proportion of a half pound of sugar to each pound 
of fruit. 



Digitized by 



Google 



202 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

Put the fruit into a porcelain kettle; stir it con- 
stantly until it reaches the boiling-point. Add the 
sugar, cook twenty minutes and pour into jars. If 
you are canning peaches it is wise to save the parings 
and use them for peach butter. When you put them 
into the kettle, add suflScient water to prevent 
scorching. 

APPLE BUTTER 
This should be made from new cider, fresh from the 
press, and not yet fermented. Fill a porcelain-lined 
kettle with cider and boil until reduced to half. Then 
boil another kettleful in the same way, and so con- 
tinue until you have a sufficient quantity. To every 
four gallons of boiled cider allow a half bushel of 
nice juicy apples, pared, cored and quartered. The 
cider should be boiled the day before you make the 
apple butter. Fill a very large kettle with the boiled 
cider, and add as many apples as can be kept moist. 
Stir frequently, and when the apples are soft, beat 
with a wooden stick until they are reduced to a pulp. 
Cook and stir continuously until the consistency is 
that of soft marmalade, and the color is a very dark 
brown. Have boiled cider at hand in case it becomes 
too thick, and more apples if too thin. Twenty min- 
utes before you take it from the fire, add ground cin- 
namon and nutmeg to taste. It requires no sugar. 
When cold, put into stone jars and cover closely. 

TOMATO BUTTER 

Scald twenty pounds of ripe tomatoes and remove the 
skins; put them in a porcelain-lined kettle with eight 
pounds of apples pared, cored and quartered. Stand 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 203 

over a moderate fire to cook slowly for one hour, stir- 
ring occasionally to prevent sticking, then add eight 
pounds of sugar, the juice of four lemons, and one 
tablespoonful of powdered ginger. Cook and stir con- 
tinually until reduced to the consistency of marmalade. 
Put in tumblers or jars. When cold, tie up as 
directed. 

MARMALADES OR JAMS 

Marmalade is a sort of cross between a butter and 
a jelly; marmalade and jam are one and the same. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Take equal weights of sour oranges and sugar. Grate 
the yellow rind from one-fourth of the oranges. Cut 
the fruit into halves, and scoop out the pulp with a 
spoon ; reject all the seeds and the white skin. When 
you have, finished scooping out the oranges, put the 
pulp in a fine sieve to drain. Add the juice to the 
sugar, bring to boiling-point and skim. Boil rapidly 
fifteen minutes, and then add the grated rinds and the 
pulp. Boil fifteen minutes longer and put at once 
into tumblers. 

BARBERRY JAM 
Pick three pounds of barberries from the stems, wash 
them and put them into a double boiler with three 
pounds of sugar. Boil continuously for a half hour 
and stand them aside over night. In the morning 
strain them into a porcelain-lined kettle and simmer 
gently for twenty-five minutes; then put them into 
tumblers; when cold, fasten them the same as jelly. 



Digitized by 



Google 



204 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BLACKBERRY JAM 

Blackberry jam is more easily made than blackberry 
jelly and is equally good. Put the blackberries into a 
porcelain-lined kettle, adding just a little water — ^not 
more than a half pint to four pounds of berries. 
Cover the kettle, bring slowly to boiling-point, stir- 
ring occasionally. Press through a sieve. Measure 
the liquid, and return it to the kettle. Allow a half 
pound of sugar to each pint of liquid, adding the 
sugar when the liquid reaches the boiling-point. Boil 
rapidly twenty minutes, stirring frequently to prevent 
scorching. Pour into jars or tumblers, and seal the 
same as jelly. 

This recipe will answer for red currants and grape 
jam. 

FRUIT JUICES 

GRAPE JUICE 

Pick the grapes from the stems and put them into a 
porcelain-lined kettle, adding just enough water to 
prevent scorching. Cover the kettle, boil and stir until 
the grapes are thoroughly cooked. Turn them into a 
bag and drain over night. Next morning, select the 
bottles and the corks; put them into cold water and 
bring to boiling-point. Boil the juice, skim it, and fill 
it at once into the bottles. Cork the bottles and put 
them into a kettle of hot water ; boil them a half hour. 
Lift the bottles and dip the corks at once into sealing 
wax. 

This recipe will answer for all fruit juices. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 205 

CONSERVED FRUITS 

All fruits are conserved after the same rule. Pre- 
serve them pound for pound; cook until they are 
transparent and turn them out on a sieve t6 drain. 
Save the syrup for sweetening other dishes. When 
the fruit is dry, roll in granulated sugar and put it 
away. 

CANDIED OR CONSERVED CHERRIES 

Select large ripe Morella cherries. Stone them care- 
fully, saving all the juice that exudes during the 
stoning. Weigh the cherries, and to each pound allow 
a pound of sugar. Put a layer of cherries in the 
bottom of a bowl, then a sprinkling of sugar, then more 
cherries and more sugar, continuing until all are used. 
Cover the bowl and stand it aside for three hours. 
Boil the juice that has exuded from the cherries and 
skim it. Turn the contents of the bowl into a kettle 
with the juice and simmer gently until the cherries 
are transparent. Drain them on a sieve, spread them 
out on platters, and stand them in the oven or in the 
sun until they are dried on the outside. Roll them 
in granulated sugar, and put them away in wooden 
or tin boxes. 

Most of the conserved and candied cherries sold 
in the market are bleached, then dyed. As this method 
is no longer considered hygienic, I give this simple 
recipe that can be used without danger in every house- 
hold. If there is no sieve at hand, lift the fruit with 
a skimmer and hold it over the kettle until it is 
thoroughly drained, then dry. 



Digitized by 



Google 



206 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

ORANGE AND LEMON PEEL 

Take six large Florida oranges and the same number 
of lemons. Take off the peel in quarters, throwing it 
at once into a strong salt water. Cover and stand 
aside for twenty hours. Then drain, put it into a 
kettle of clear boiling water and cook slowly one hour. 
Drain and weigh. To each pound allow a pound of 
sugar. Put the sugar with a half pint of water to 
each pound in a preserving kettle. Bring to boiling- 
point and skim. Put in the lemon or orange rinds 
and stand them aside for twenty-four hours. If you 
have a fireless cooker, put them at once into the fire- 
less cooker. In the morning you will find them trans- 
parent and perfectly soft. Lift the peel with the skim- 
mer, put it on platters, cover with glass and stand in 
the sun until it is crusted or dried on the outside. 
Now boil the syrup rapidly for fifteen minutes. Add 
the peel that you have partly dried, and stand it aside 
again over night. Lift it the next morning, put it out 
again to dry, dust it thickly with granulated sugar and 
put it away in tin boxes. The left-over syrup may be 
bottled, corked and sealed to use during the winter 
for flavoring puddings, apple sauce, or baked pears. 

MOCK FIGS 

Select SIX pounds of fig tomatoes, either the red or 
the yellow. Allow three pounds of granulated sugar. 
Put the tomatoes into a sieve, plunge them into boiling 
water for just a moment, remove the skins. Put a 
layer of the tomatoes in the bottom of a porcelain- 
lined kettle, strew thickly with sugar and stand them 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 207 

over a moderate fire. Remember that there must be 
but one layer of tomatoes and their proportion of 
sugar. Bring slowly to scalding point, and let them 
stand on the back of the stove until the sugar has 
thoroughly penetrated the tomatoes. Lift them one at 
a time with a broad fork or iron spoon. Place them 
on a hot stoneware or granite dish, cover with glass 
and dry in the sun, or dry in a moderate oven, 
sprinkling with granulated sugar two or three times 
while drying. When perfectly dry, pack them in glass 
jars with layers of granulated sugar. 

Caution — Care must be taken that tomatoes, if 
dried in the sun, do not become moist with either dew 
or rain. Put them out late in the morning, and take 
them in before the sun goes down. If they are dried 
in the oven, the oven must be at a drying, not baking 
heat. 

PRAWUNGS 

Remove the peel from six oranges, and with a pair 
of scissors cut it into straws. Put a pound of sugar 
with a half pint of water into a kettle and bring to a 
boil. Boil until it drops slowly from a spoon and spins 
a thread. While this is boiling, cover the orange peel 
with boiling water and boil rapidly ; drain and put it 
at once in the syrup. Brin^ to a boil and boil about 
one minute, and then stir with a spoon until the sugar 
granulates and hangs about the peel. Turn it into a 
sieve, shake out the loose sugar, and put it away in 
boxes. This is used as a sweetmeat or as a flavoring 
to fruit cake and mince pies. 



Digitized by 



Google 



208 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

PEAR CHIPS 

This recipe will also answer for quince and pumpkin 
chips. Pare the fruit and cut it into chips; to each 
pound allow a pound of sugar. Put the sugar, and a 
half pint of water to each pound, in the kettle; boil 
and skim. Add the fruit and cook slowly until clear. 
Lift with a skimmer and dry the same as conserved 
fruit. If you have been doing one fruit and the flavor 
is harmonious, the syrup may be used next day for 
another. You can continue using the syrup until it 
grows too thick. Green ginger may be added to pears 
in the proportion of an ounce of ginger to each pound 
of pears. Or cook the pear chips in a quince syrup. 
Add ginger or orange to pumpkin chips. 

FRUIT HONEY 

The fruits best adapted for honey-making are pears, 
quinces and pineapples. 

PEAR HONEY 

Select eight large and rather hard pears. Boil three 
pounds of sugar with a pint of water for just a 
moment, and skim. Grate the pears and put them 
quickly into the syrup to prevent discoloration. Boil 
ten minutes and put away in tumblers the same as 
jelly. Quince and pineapple honey are made after 
the same recipe, grating both the quinces and the 
pineapple. 

TOMATO HONEY 
Take equal quantities of grated pineapple and small 
yellow tomatoes, peeled. Allow a pound of sugar to 
each pint of material. Mix the sugar with the fruit 
and cook without water until transparent. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 209 

TO CAN VEGETABLES 

Before giving recipes for the canning of vegetables, I 
should like to impress upon my readers the importance 
of understanding surgical cleanliness. All vegetables 
are easily canned and kept at home, providing every- 
thing is sterile, which means dead. Foods that fer- 
ment have in them some form of either plant or animal 
life. The danger of spoiling is greater if sugar is 
used, or in vegetables containing sugar, as yeasts 
grow in saccharine solutions. One yeast plant in a 
can of corn will spoil the contents of the entire can. 
This is also true of peas and beets. Acid vegetables, 
as tomatoes, are easily kept, providing sugar is not 
added. Many housekeepers, ignorant of the chemical 
constituents of foods, add sugar to sour materials to 
sweeten them. It does not change the acid one par- 
ticle. Sugar enters the stomach as sugar and the acid 
as acid. To neutralize or change the acid one must 
add an alkaline material. A teaspoonful of bicarbonate 
soda to a quart of tomatoes will sweeten them by 
neutralizing the acid. 

To have perfect success in canning vegetables, one 
must follow accurately the directions given. 

For convenience, have a wire rack, with a centre 
handle made to fit a good-sized wash-boiler. 

TO CAN ASPARAGUS 

Select perfectly fresh asparagus ; wash it well ; peel the 
butts and cut off the hard portion. Cover with boil- 
ing salted water, boil fifteen minutes and cool. 

14 



Digitized by 



Google 



210 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

Arrange the asparagus in wide-mouthed jars, butts 
down. Fill the jars with cold water, adjust the rub- 
bers, and put the tops on loosely. Stand these in a 
boiler, the bottom of which is protected by a rack. 
Surround the jars partly with cold water, cover the 
boiler, and boil continuously one hour. Lift one jar 
at a time, screw down the lid, cover the boiler and boil 
for another hour. You cannot lift the lids from any 
of the jars and lay them on the table, and then put them 
back on the jar, and have the contents keep. The lid 
must be screwed down without taking them from the 
jar. The lids should be solid, either glass or other 
material without lining. 

TO CAN STRING BEANS 

String and wash the beans. They may be canned 
whole or cut. Cover with boiling water, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and boil rapidly twenty minutes. 
Drain and pack into the jars. Fill the jars with cold 
water, adjust the rubbers, put the tops on loosely, and 
proceed exactly the same as you would for asparagus, 
cooking it first one hour, and then thirty minutes after 
the lids are screwed down or fastened. 

TO CAN BEETS 
Select very young, tender beets. Put into boiling 
water and boil for twenty minutes; cool and slip off 
the skins. Pack the beets into jars. Fill the jars with 
cold water, adjust the rubbers, put the tops on loosely, 
and finish precisely the same as for asparagus, cooking 
the same length of time. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 211 

TO CAN CORN 

This, with the exception of peas, is the most difficult 
of all vegetables to keep. Com must be perfectly 
fresh from the field. Remove the husks, cut the tips 
from the grains, or score them down the centre, and 
press out the pulp. Pack this pulp at once into per- 
fectly clean glass jars, filling the jars within one inch 
of the top; adjust the rubbers and lay on the tops. 
Stand the jars in a boiler as directed in preceding 
recipes, and surround them with cold water. Cover 
the boiler, and after the water begins to boil, boil for 
three hours. Lift one jar at a time and fasten the 
top; do not lift the lid. Then add sufficient boiling 
water to entirely cover the jars and boil for one hour. 
Let them cool in the boiler, taking it, of course, away 
from the fire. 

I have used this recipe for years, and have never 
had a single jar to spoil. 

TO CAN PEAS 

Select perfectly fresh green peas; shell and pack at 
once into clean jars. Fill the jars with cold water; 
adjust the rubbers, lay on the tops, and finish pre- 
cisely the same as with com, cooking the same length 
of time. The last boiling must be done with the jars 
covered with boiling water. You can succeed with 
both these vegetables if you follow the rules, . 

TO CAN STEWED TOMATOES 

Scald solid and perfectly sound tomatoes and remove 
the skins. Cut the tomatoes into halves and press each 



Digitized by 



Google 



212 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

half to remove the seeds. Cut the halves into quar- 
ters, and lay in a porcelain-lined kettle; bring to boil- 
ing-point, add salt and pepper to make them palatable, 
and boil thirty minutes. Have ready the jars, rubbers 
and lids. The rubbers should be in a dish of very hot 
water, the lids in a pan of boiling water, and the jars 
should be washed and scalded. Take an ordinary 
dinner or pie plate, put in the centre a piece of folded 
cheese-cloth or an ordinary napkin, and stand on it a 
jar. Take it to the fire; fill it to overflowing with 
tomatoes ; stand the plate on the table or at the side of 
the stove; adjust the rubber and screw on the lid, 
taking it directly from the boiling water. Do not put 
the lid on the table, nor touch it on the inside. Stand 
the jars aside until cool. Wipe them and place in a 
clean dry closet. 

TO CAN TOMATOES WHOLE 

I have canned many jars of whole tomatoes that have 
been sufficiently solid to use for salad. This condi- 
tion, of course, will depend upon the care in selecting 
the tomatoes. They should be small, round and per- 
fectly solid. Put the tomatoes in a wire basket and 
then into boiling water for a moment; lift out and 
remove the skins. Pack the tomatoes neatly in wide- 
mouthed jars. When you have all the tomatoes in, 
fill the jars with cold water, adjust the rubbers, and 
lay on the lids. Stand the jars in a wash-boiler on a 
rack ; surround them partly with cold water ; cover the 
boiler ; bring quickly to a boil, and boil three minutes ; 
lift and fasten. 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 

Under this heading I shall give a few simple recipes 
for fruit puddings, which may be comfortably eaten 
after a light luncheon or dinner, and one or two heavier 
puddings for special occasions like Christmas and 
Thanksgiving. Do not use too many sweets. 

BNGUSH APPLE TART 
Fill a baking-dish with tart apples that have been 
pared, cored and sliced; sprinkle over three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar to each quart of apples; rub six 
tablespoonfuls of peanut butter into a quart of flour; 
add a half teaspoonful of salt and enough ice water to 
moisten. This will require but a few tablespoonfuls. 
Roll out the dough, cut it the shape of the dish, make 
a hole in the centre, and fasten it firmly to the sides 
of the dish. Bake in a moderate oven forty minutes. 
Left-over pastry may be rolled very thin and cut into 
wafers and baked. 

Peach tart is made the same way. 

APPLE BISCUIT PUDDING 
Pare, core and quarter six good-sized tart apples. Put 
them in a baking-dish, sprinkle over one-fourth of a 
cup of sugar and add a half cup of water. Put a pint 
of flour into a bowl; add a tablespoonful of dairy or 
nut butter, a half teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoon- 
ful of baking-powder. Work well together and then 



Digitized by 



Google 



214 MRS. rorer's vegstablb cookery 

moisten gradually with two-thirds of a cup of milk. 
Roll the dough out quickly, cut it the shape of the 
baking-dish» make a hole in the centre and place it 
neatly on the apples. The crust should be about a 
quarter of an inch thick. Brush the top with a little 
milk and bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. 
Serve hot, with milk, or cream, or plain. Other fruits 
may be used in the place of apples. Left-over dough 
may be made into small biscuits and used for another 
meal. 

THANKSGIVING PIE 

It is our fashion at Thanksgiving to have pies of two 
or three varieties; yet I am still of the opinion that 
all pies are more or less irritating to the intestinal 
tract. If you wish a pumpkin custard for Thanksgiv- 
ing, cut the pumpkin into blocks, steam it until tender, 
press it through a colander, and, while hot, add to 
each pint of pulp a tablespoonful of butter. When 
cool, beat three eggs without separating, add a cup of 
sugar, and beat again; when light, add this to the 
pumpkin. Add a half teaspoonful of cinnamon, a half 
teaspoonful of ginger, and a half pint of milk. Line 
a baking-dish with nut crust according to the recipe 
given for English apple tart. Pour in the custard and 
bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

MOCK MINCE PIE 

I cupful seeded raisins, H cup washed currants 

chopped fine ^ cup sugar 

I egg J4 cup shredded citron 
Yz cup molasses i tablespoonful vinegar 

J4 cup cider or grape juice Juice and rind one 

4 Uneeda biscuits lemon 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 215 

Roll the crackers, put them in a bowl, and add all the 
fruit. Beat the egg until light, add the molasses, 
grape juice or cider, sugar and lemon. Mix, and, if 
you like, add a half teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

PIE CRUST 

2 tablespoonfuls nut butter ^ teaspoonful salt 
I pint flour K cup ice water 

Rub the nut butter into the flour, add the salt, and 
gradually the ice water ; the crust must not be too wet. 
Roll this out as you would other pastry. Line a pie- 
tin ; put in the mock mince-meat, cover with an upper 
crust; bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

PLUM PUDDING 

^ pound shelled Brazil i cupful almonds 

nuts I cupful pifions (if you 
J^ pound dry sifted bread- have them) 

crumbs i pound seeded raisins 

y^ pound brown sugar i pound currants 

y^ pound flour J4 pound orange and lemon 
4 eggs peel, shredded 

}4 pint grape juice J4 pound shredded citron 

I nutmeg, grated i teaspoonful salt 

Mix all the fruits; add the flour and stir until each 

piece is floured. Blanch and chop the almonds; put 

the Brazil nuts through the meat grinder; add the 

bread-crumbs, mixing with the hand, and then add 

the chopped almonds and the piiions that have been 

washed and toasted. Beat the eggs without separating 

until very light; add to them the grape juice. Add 

this to the dry mixture, and work with the hand until 

all the bread-crumbs are mo!st, not wet. Now add the 

fruit and the nutmeg. Mix this again with the hands 

until thoroughly blended. Pack into greased moulds 



Digitized by 



Google 



216 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

or tin kettles, leaving at least an inch at the top for 
swelling. Cover the kettles and stand them in a boiler 
on a rack. Add sufficient hot water to about half 
cover. Cover the boiler and boil continuously for 
eight hours, replenishing with boiling water as that in 
the boiler evaporates. Take them from the fire and 
lift the lids until the puddings cool. Then replace 
the lids and hang the puddings in a cold place. These 
may be made in the fall and will last all winter. At 
serving time, stand the kettle in a small quantity of 
hot water and boil for thirty minutes or an hour, 

POOR MAN'S TARTLETS 

12 crackers 4 tablespoonfuls powdered 

Whites two eggs sugar 

I tumblerful jelly 

Put a teaspoonful of jelly on the top of each cracker; 
beat the whites of the eggs until they are light; add 
the powdered sugar and beat thoroughly for ten min- 
utes. Put this meringue all over the jelly, dust it 
thickly with powdered sugar and brown in a slow oven. 

MARGUERITES 

24 long unsalted wafers 54 cup pecan meats 

6 tablespoonfuls powdered ^ cup almonds 

sugar Whites three eggs 

Blanch the almonds and dry them. Mix them with 
the pecans and chop very fine. They cannot be 
ground, or the mixture will be too oily. Beat the 
whites of the eggs until light ; add the powdered sugar 
and beat for ten minutes. Take out four tablespoon- 
fuls of this mixture, put it in a bowl and add the nuts. 
Spread this over the top of each cracker or wafer. 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 317 

having it at least a quarter of an inch thick. Spread 
over the remaining whites as you would ice a cake, 
dust the tops thickly with powdered sugar, and brown 
in a moderate oven. These may be made from any 
nuts at hand — ^black walnuts, hickorynuts, pinons, 
English walnuts, or, if you like, peanut butter. 

MAPLE CUP CUSTARD 

% pound maple sugar 3 tablespoonfuls powdered 

2 tablespoonfuls flour sugar 

3 eggs Vz pint milk 

Grate the maple sugar, add it gradually to the yolks 
of the eggs and beat until light. Moisten the flour 
with a little of the milk, then add it to the milk and 
strain it into the eggs and sugar. Pour the mixture 
into custard cups, stand them in a pan of water and 
bake in the oven until the custard is set. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add the pow- 
dered sugar. Beat until dry and glossy. Heap a 
tablespoonful on the top of each cup, dust thickly with 
powdered sugar and return to the oven a few minutes 
to brown. 

MIRILTONS 

I pint milk H cupful almonds 

I ounce grated chocolate i tablespoonful sugar 

6 macaroons Yolks three eggs 

Blanch and dry the almonds and chop them fine; 

grate the macaroons and sift them; put the milk in 

a double boiler; add the chocolate and sugar. Beat 

the yolks of the eggs, add a little of the milk to them, 

and then return them to the double boiler and cook 

about one minute. Take from the fire and add the 

macaroons and the nuts. Turn this mixture into small 

custard cups, stand them in a pan of water and bake 



Digitized by 



Google 



218 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

in a moderate oven about twenty minutes until set. 
Serve in the cups in which they are baked. This same 
mixture may be baked in patty pans lined with nut 
crust. 

BATTER PUDDING 

I pint milk 3 e^s 

3 cups flour I pint fruit 

I tablespoonful melted 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 

butter powder 

H teaspoonful salt 

Beat the whites and yolks together until light ; add the 
milk, butter, flour and salt. Beat until smooth and 
then stir in the baking-powder. If the fruit is stoned 
cherries, drain them dry before adding to the batter. 
Apples, peaches, blackberries, raspberries, huckleber- 
ries, or such dry fruits as chopped dates, raisins, and 
currants may be used. Add the fruit, stirring it into 
the batter. Turn the pudding into a greased pudding- 
mould or round tin-kettle ; cover it and stand on a rack 
in a pot of boiling water. The water must not cover 
the mould, nor must it come near the top. Use just 
enough to create a large volume of steam. Cover the 
kettle, and boil continuously for three hours. If the 
water evaporates, replenish with boiling water. Serve 
this pudding hot, with hard sauce or fairy butter or 
plain liquid pudding sauce. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING 

6 tart apples i54 cups flour 

^ pint thick sour cream Yz teaspoonful bicarbonate 

H teaspoonful salt soda 

Pare and core the apples, and put them in a baking- 
dish. Dissolve the soda in a tablespoonful of water 
and add it to the cream; add the salt, beat together a 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 319 

moment, and stir in the flour. Pour this, now a stiff 
batter, over the apples. Bake in a moderate oven 
forty-five minutes. Serve hot with sugar and butter. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

I quart boiling milk 1^4 cupfuls yellow Indian 

I quart cold milk meal 

I teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls ground 

^ pint molasses ginger 

Add the cornmeal to the boiling milk in a double boiler 
and stir until it slightly thickens; then add the mo- 
lasses, the salt and the ginger. Cook until the con- 
sistency of mush. Empty into a baking-dish and pour 
over the quart of cold milk. Bake in a moderate oven 
about four hours. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

GRANDMOTHER'S APPLE PUDDING 

4 large apples i teaspoonful cinnamon 

2 cupfuls stale dry bread- J^ nutmeg, grated 
crumbs 5 €ggs 

Pare and chop the apples, mixing quickly with the 

bread-crumbs. Separate the eggs and beat the yolks; 

add to the crumbs, then add the cinnamon and the 

nutmeg; mix carefully and stir in the well beaten 

whites of the eggs. Pour into a greased mould and 

boil three hours. Raisins, dates or figs may be 

substituted for the apples. 

DUTCH APPLE PUDDING 

3 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

ij4 cupfuls milk 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 

3 cupfuls flour powder 

Separate the eggs, beat the yolks and add the milk; 
add the melted butter and flour. Beat with an egg- 
beater for about two minutes, add the baking-powder 



Digitized by 



Google 



320 MRS. rorbr's vegetable cookery 

and beat two minutes longer. Fold in the well beaten 
whites. Turn into a shallow greased baking-pan and 
place over the top, pressing them down into the batter, 
sufficient quarters of apples to cover the pudding. 
Dust thickly with granulated sugar, using at least a 
half pound, and bake in a quick oven half an hour. 
Serve hot with orange or hard sauce or milk. Peaches, 
huckleberries, blackberries and raspberries may be 
stibstituted for the apples. 

APPLS DUMPLINGS 

I quart flour lyi cupfuls milk 

4 tablespoonfuls dairy or 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 

nut butter powder 

j4 teaspoonful salt 

Select tart apples, small in size and perfectly round. 
Pare and core them. Mix the baking-powder and salt 
with the flour and sift together ; rub in the shortening. 
Add the milk gradually. The dough must be suffi- 
ciently stiff to easily roll. Roll out, cut into large 
squares or rounds. Stand an apple in the centre of 
each, fill the core with sugar, add a little cinnamon, 
fold up the corners, stand the apples in a baking-pan 
and bake in a moderate oven about forty-five minutes, 
or until the apple is tender. If you cut the dough into 
rounds, roll it in the hand until the apple is thor- 
oughly covered and stand it upside down in the pan. 
If you fold over the corners, stand the dumplings in 
the pan with the folded corners on top. 

RICE DUMPLINGS 

Wash one cupful of rice several times in cold water; 
drain and throw it into boiling water; boil rapidly 
fifteen minutes, then drain. Have ready the apples, 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 221 

pared and cored, or the peaches, pared, and square 
dumpling-cloths. Spread the rice in the centre of 
each cloth, having it at least a half inch thick and suffi- 
ciently large to thoroughly cover the fruit. Put the 
fruit in the centre, picking up the edges of the cloth 
and drawing them up so that the fruit is entirely cov- 
ered with rice and tie tightly. Put the dumplings into 
a large kettle of boiling water and boil for thirty min- 
utes. When done, cut the string with the scissors and 
carefully remove the cloth. Serve hot with a pitcher 
of milk or with sugar and milk. Canned apricots and 
canned peaches may be used. 

NUT ROLY-POLY 

I pint flour 2 tablespoonfuls nut butter 

j4 teaspoonful salt % pint mixed nuts 

54 pint raisins 

Chop the nuts and raisins. Add the nut butter to the 

flour and rub thoroughly; add the salt and just enough 

v/ater to make a paste. Roll this out into a very thin 

sheet. Cover it first with a layer of sugar, then the 

nuts and raisins. Roll, lay on a greased paper, brush 

the roll with milk and bake for half an hour. Serve 

hot with jelly sauce. 

WATER JELLY 

I pint boiling water 4 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls com- i teaspoonful vanilla, or 
starch grated yellow rind and 

yi cup sugar juice one orange 

Moisten the cornstarch with a little cold water; add 

the boiling water and sugar. Cook until clear and 

rather thick. Pour, while hot, into the well beaten 

whites of the eggs. Add the vanilla and turn it at 



Digitized by 



Google 



222 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

once into a mould. Beat the yolks of the eggs with 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar ; add a pint of milk ; stir 
this in a double boiler until the custard is slightly 
thick or coats a knife-blade. Dip a clean knife into 
the hot custard; if it sticks to the blade, take it 
quickly from the fire or it will curdle. Add a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and stand aside to cool. When 
ready to serve, turn the pudding into a round dish, 
and pour the custard at the base. This custard is also 
nice served with fruit syrups or juices. 

GELATIN PUDDING 

It is scarcely worth while to give recipes for gelatin 
pudding. Use vegetable gelatin precisely the same as 
animal gelatin. I do not know that either of these 
gelatins is to be recommended. The vegetable gelatin is 
much more delicate. It has not the unpleasant odor 
so common in animal geletin. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

I quart flour 4 teaspoonfuls baking- 

1 teaspoonful salt powder 

2 ounces dairy or nut butter i quart strawberries 

Stem the berries; sweeten and mash them slightly 
with a spoon; stand them aside while you bake the 
shortcake. Add the salt and baking-powder to the 
flour and sift them. Rub in the butter, add sufficient 
milk (about a cup and a half) to make a dough. Mix 
quickly and roll out an inch and a half in thickness. 
Put it at once into a square or oblong greased baking- 
pan, brush with milk and bake in a quick oven twenty 
minutes. When done, take it from the oven, cut the 
crust with a knife and pull open the cake. Spread it 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 223 

thickly with butter, dust with sugar and put in the 
berries, reserving a few for the top. Put on the crust, 
cover the top with the remaining berries, dust with 
powdered sugar and send to the table. Serve plain 
or with cream. 

Peaches and raspberries may be substituted for 
strawberries. Slice the peaches or chop them rather 
fine. Canned peaches make specially good shortcake. 

FRUIT CANNELON 

3 tablespoonfuls nut or 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

dairy butter powder 

I pint flour % teaspoon ful salt 

I egg Yz cup milk 

Add the salt and the baking-powder to the flour and 
sift it, rub in the butter. Beat the t^gg without sepa- 
rating and add the milk; add this gradually to the 
flour. There may be a little too much, so do not add 
it all at one time. The dough must be sufiiciently stiff 
to roll easily. Roll it out in a sheet a quarter inch 
thick and cut into strips ten inches long and one inch 
wide. Wind them round cannelon moulds ; stand them 
in a pan; brush the top with a little of the tgg and 
milk ; dust with granulated sugar, and bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes. Remove the moulds and put 
them back in the oven 'for five or ten minutes to dry. 
Have ready any fruit in season, peaches, chopped and 
sweetened, strawberries, stemmed and sweetened, 
raspberries or apricots. Fill the cannelon with the 
sweetened fruit. Lay them on a platter, and send to 
the table. They are usually served with a pitcher of 
milk or cream, and eaten the same as strawberry 
shortcake. 



Digitized by 



Google 



224 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

54 cup granulated tapioca Yz cup sugar 
1^4 pints or 3 cups water Fruit 

Soak the tapioca in the water for thirty minutes and 
then cook it carefully in a double boiler until trans- 
parent; add the sugar; stir, and pour this over the 
apples that have been pared, cored, quartered and put 
in a baking-dish. Cover the dish and bake in a quick 
oven thirty minutes. Lift the lid just a moment until 
the tapioca crusts. Serve warm or cold with milk. 
Peaches may be substituted for apples. 

ORANGE TAPIOCA 

3 oranges 3 cups or ij4 pints water 

H cup granulated tapioca i cup sugar 

Soak the tapioca in the water for thirty minutes ; add 
the grated yellow rind of one orange. Cook until the 
tapioca is transparent; add the sugar; take from the 
fire and add the juice of two oranges and the pulp of 
one. Turn this into a glass dish and serve cold, with 
powdered sugar. 

Strawberries may be substituted for oranges. They 
will be added to the mixture while hot, and allowed 
to stand until cold. 

Sago may be substituted io)r tapioca. 

APPLE DOWDY 

Butter a baking-dish and line the bottom and sides with 
buttered slices of bread. Fill the dish with pared, 
cored and sliced apples ; grate over a little nutmeg or 
cinnamon. Mix a half cup of water with a half cup 
of molasses, and pour over the apples. Then sprinkle 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 225 

over a half cup of brown sugar and cover the top with 
buttered bread, butter-side up. Cover the top of the 
baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 
When done, loosen the edge with a knife and turn it 
out into a large dish. Serve hot with sugar and cream. 

APPLE SLUMP 

I tablespoonful dairy or 3 cups flour 

nut butter 4 teaspoonfuls baking- 

Yi pint milk powder 

6 large tart apples 

Pare, core and quarter the apples. Put them in a 
saucepan with a pint of water. Add the baking- 
powder to the flour, sift, and rub in the butter, then 
gradually add the milk. This must be as thick as 
biscuit dough. Roll it out, cut it into biscuits, stand 
them over the top of the hot apples, cover the sauce- 
pan, and simmer for fifteen minutes. When done, lift 
the dumplings to the edge of a dish and turn the apples 
into the centre. Serve with milk. 

BROWN BETTY 

6 large tart apples ^ cup molasses 

I quart stale bread, cut into Vt, cup brown sugar 
blocks Yi cup water 

Pare, core and slice the apples. Put a layer of bread 
in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of apples, 
and so continue until the ingredients are used, having 
the last layer bread. Mix the water and the molasses, 
pour over the apples and bread, sprinkle over the 
sugar, and bake in a moderate oven one hour. Serve 
hot. 
u 



Digitized by 



Google 



226 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

OLD-FASHIONED RICE PUDDING 

4 tablespoon fuls rice 54 cup raisins 

2 quarts milk ^ nutmeg, grated 

Add the rice, without washing, to the milk. Add the 
raisins and nutmeg. Stand the pan in a moderate 
oven and bake slowly about two hours until the rice 
comes to the top of the milk, stirring down the crusts 
as fast as they form, for the first hour and a half. 
This should be creamy, not stiff, served cold. 

DRIED FRUIT JELLY 

54 pound dates l quart water 

4 figs Juice three oranges and 

% pound candied cherries one lemon 

K box vegetable gelatin i cupful sugar 

Cover the gelatin with the water and let it soak for 
an hour. Then add the sugar, and bring to boiling- 
point. Chop the fruit very fine, put it into a mould 
that has been moistened with cold water. Add the 
orange and lemon juice to the gelatin, strain, and 
pour it over the fruit. Stand aside until it hardens. 
This may be served plain or with whipped cream. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

6 tablespoonfuls sugar i quart cream 

I pint milk i^ cups sugar 

I teaspoonful vanilla 

Put the six tablespoonfuls of sugar into an iron sauce- 
pan and stir until it melts and browns. Then add four 
tablespoonfuls of water; stir until the caramel is 
melted; add it to the milk in the double boiler, and 
then add the cup and a half of sugar. Stir until the 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 227 

milk IS hot and the sugar melted. When cold, turn 
this into the ice cream freezer and pack with salt and 
ice. Turn the crank once or twice to make sure that 
it is ice-cold. Open and add the cream. Turn slowly 
until it begins to freeze, then rapidly for a few min- 
utes. Remove the dasher, put on the lid, fasten the 
hole with a cork, draw off the water, and repack with 
salt and ice, using less salt. Cover and stand aside 
two hours to ripen. When first packing the freezer, 
use one-third as much salt as ice; have the ice very 
fine and the salt coarse. 

All kinds of ice cream may be made after this 
recipe, changing the flavoring. 

If all cream is preferred, scald one-half the cream, 
add the sugar, and when very cold add the remaining 
cream and freeze. 

Do not stir too rapidly at first, or the cream will 
be buttery. 

BISQUE ICE CREAM 

I quart cream 54 cup mixed chopped nuts 

1 pint milk i teaspoonful caramel 

54 cup stale bread-crumbs Grated yellow rind one 

2 cupfuls sugar lemon 

I teaspoonful vanilla 

Put the milk in a double boiler, add the sugar and 
lemon rind and stir until hot. When cool, add the 
cream, the caramel and vanilla. Turn the mixture into 
a freezer, pack, and when very cold, stir slowly until 
it begins to freeze, then rapidly a few minutes until 
quite stiff. Open the freezer, remove the dasher, add 
the nuts and bread-crumbs. Repack for one hour. 



Digitized by 



Google 



2^d MUS. RORER^S V£G£TAfiLE COOKERY 

FROZEN CUSTARD 

4 eggs I cup sugar 

I quart milk 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

Add the sugar to the eggs and beat until very light. 
Put the milk in a double boiler, add the eggs and 
sugar and cook until the custard coats a knife-blade. 
Take from the fire, add the vanilla, and when cold, add 
a pint of cream. Put the mixture in a freezer and 
pack well; stir slowly until it begins to freeze, then 
rapidly for a few minutes. Repack and stand for 
an hour. 

SHERBETS 

Sherbets, sorbets and water ices are all made from the 
same recipe. The manipulations produce diflferent 
results. Water ices are stirred only occasionally; 
sherbets and sorbets are stirred rapidly after they 
begin to freeze, and for sorbets add the white of 
an egg well beaten after removing the dasher. All 
these are usually served in punch cups. Water ice 
may be served the same as ice cream. 

For dinners, mint and ginger sherbets are the most 
desirable; lemon and orange are best for afternoon 
teas. 

ORANGE SHERBET 

Juice 12 oranges 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable 

I quart boiling water gelatin 

I pound sugar 

Add the gelatin to the water and soak it half an hour. 
Bring it to boiling-point, add the sugar, boil five min- 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 229 

utes, add the grated yellow rind of an orange, and 
stand aside to cool. When cold, add the orange juice 
and strain. Turn the mixture into a freezer, pack, 
turn slowly until it begins to freeze, and then turn 
rapidly for a few minutes until the mixture is stiff. 
This may be used at once or repacked until wanted. 

For Mint Sherbet, chop the leaves from a dozen 
stalks of mint, mash them with the sugar, and boil 
them in the water. Add the juice of two lemons. 
Finish according to the preceding recipe, leaving the 
mint leaves in or straining them out. 

For Ginger Sherbet, chop a quarter pound of 
candied or preserved ginger very fine and add it to 
the water before boiling. Add the juice of two lemons. 

For Raspberry, Currant, Grape and Straw- 
berry Sherbets, mash the fruit and add the juice in 
the proportion of a pint of juice to each quart of water. 

FROZEN BANANAS 

I dozen very ripe bananas i pint water 

Juice two oranges 54 pound sugar 

I pint cream 

Peel the bananas and press them through a colander. 
Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes; 
when cool, add the orange juice and the banana pulp. 
Put this into the freezer, pack and stir slowly until 
frozen; then remove the dasher and stir in carefully 
the cream whipped to a stiff froth. This may be 
served at once or repacked. 

This recipe will answer for peaches or apricots. 



Digitized by 



Google 



230 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES 

I quart strawberries i pound sugar 

Juice two lemons i quart water 

Add the sugar and the lemon juice to the stemmed 
berries ; let them stand one hour ; then mash through 
a colander, add the water, and stir until the sugar is 
dissolved. Pour the mixture into the freezer, and turn 
slowly until frozen. This may be served at once or 
repacked. 

To serve frozen fruits, heap them in tall parfait 
glasses and garnish the tops with whipped cream, 
chopped almonds, or grated macaroons. 

This recipe will answer for raspberries, currants 
or pineapple, using the pineapple grated, and meas- 
ured after it is grated. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PUDDING SAUCES 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

I cup granulated sugar i cup water 

Put the sugar in an iron or aluminum saucepan and 
stir with a wooden spoon over a quick fire until the 
sugar melts and turns straw color. Add quickly the 
water, boil two minutes, and turn out to cool. This 
should be about the consistency of cream, and may be 
used over any boiled or baked pudding. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

I tablespoonful flour i egg 

54 cup sugar Juice and rind of one 

I cup water orange 

Mix the sugar and the flour thoroughly and add the 
water, boiling. Cook three minutes, add the juice and 
grated rind of the orange, and pour while hot into the 
egg that has. been thoroughly beaten without sepa- 
rating. Serve at once. 

Lemon, vanilla, or a mixture of vanilla and nut- 
meg may be used in place of the orange. 

JELLY SAUCE 

I cup boiling water i tumbler jelly 

I tablespoonful cornstarch 

Moisten the cornstarch with a little cold water, then 

add the boiling water and the jelly. Boil five minutes, 

strain and serve. 

HARD SAUCE 

I cup powdered sugar J4 cup butter 

% nutmeg, grated 

Beat the butter to a cream and add the sugar gradu- 
ally. Beat until light and white. Heap this into a 

281 



Digitized by 



Google 



232 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

small fancy dish, dust the top with grated nutmeg* 
and stand aside to harden. 

FAIRY BUTTER 

Make a hard sauce, and when very light add the 
unbeaten white of one egg. Beat with an egg-beater 
until the mixture will stand alone. Heap it into a 
fancy dish, and stand it on the ice to harden. 

SAUCE SABAYON 

Yolks four eggs ]^ cup sugar 

I pint milk i teaspoonful vanilla 

Put the milk in a double boiler. Beat together the 
egg yolks and the sugar and when light add a little of 
the hot milk. Pour back into the double boiler and 
cook until it coats a knife-blade, being careful not to 
curdle. Take from the fire, add the vanilla, and stand 
aside to cool. If this should happen to curdle through 
mistake or neglect, beat it rapidly with an egg beater 
or pour it rapidly from one vessel to another. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

This is also called Puree of Fruit and is served with 

boiled or baked puddings or dumplings. 

6 large mellow peaches i tablespoonful cornstarch 

yi cup sugar Ij4 cups boiling water 

Pare and press the peaches through a sieve; moisten 

the cornstarch in a little cold water; acid the boiling 

water and the sugar. Cook five minutes, take from 

the fire, and add the peaches. Stand aside to cool. 

This is usually served warm, not hot. 

Apricots, stewed apples, or grated pears may be 

' substituted for the peaches. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS 

HOW TO COOK AND HOW TO SERVE THEM 

During the summer months substitute fruits for heavy 
desserts like puddings and custards. To have them 
wholesome and easy of digestion, serve plain, ripe and 
uncooked. 

Small fruits — strawberries, raspberries, blackber- 
ries and currants — should be moderately chilled. This 
is also true of oranges and grape fruit. Overchilling 
makes them unpalatable. 

The subacid or sweet fruits — ^mulberries, huckle- 
berries, guavas, bananas, cantaloupes and watermelons 
— should be served quite cold. Peaches, medium. 

The small, delicate fruits — ^strawberries and rasp- 
berries — ^must be handled as lightly as possible. If 
the strawberries are at all sandy, put them, before 
stemming, into a wire basket or colander, and dip them 
up and down in a pan of cold water. Drain, stem, 
and serve at once. 

In almost every community one may get appro- 
priate greens with which to decorate or garnish the 
fruit dish. Ferns and mountain laurel make dainty 
garnishes for peaches or mixed fruits. 

For breakfast, or the first course at luncheon, 
strawberries are served with the stems. Arrange them 
around a tablespoonful of powdered sugar on a pretty 
plate. To eat, simply take a strawberry by the stem 
end, dip it in the sugar and bite it off. 



Digitized by 



Google 



234 MRS. RORER S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

All fruits contain a sufficient amount of sugar, that 
is, according to Nature's way of doing things. If 
they are too sour to eat without sugar, let them alone. 
Sugar has no influence whatever on acid; it enters 
the stomach as sugar, and the acid as acid. Ripe 
unsweetened fruits are very healthful. With sugar 
they are very liable to ferment and produce intestinal 
indigestion. Fruits are principally digested in the 
small intestines. 

Fruit juices are blood purifiers, provided they are 
eaten raw without sugar. Cooking kills the natural 
ferments. This is especially true of pineapple; eaten 
raw, it digests albuminoids ; when cooked it in no way 
aids digestion — in fact it is then indigestable and 
useless. It has no food value, 

THE APPLE 

The apple, perhaps, is the chief among fruits. To 
eat raw, it should be perfectly ripe, either tart or 
sweet according to taste. Many persons cannot digest 
a raw apple because they do not masticate it thor- 
oughly. No one can bolt food any length of time 
without suffering the consequences. 

BAKED APPLES 

Wash the apples thoroughly, remove the cores, and 
cut the skin of the apple around just above what might 
be called the equator. Do not cut it deep. The skin 
cut in this way will prevent the apple from bursting. 
Stand in an earthen or granite pah ; fill the core spaces 
with sugar, cover the bottom of the pan with water, and 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS 235 

bake in a quick oven about thirty minutes, basting 
once or twice. Serve warm. Cold baked apples are 
heavy and sodden, and should never be eaten by people 
with weak digestions. 

PANNED BAKED APPLES 

Apples baked in this way are very nice to serve with 
mock duck or mock goose. Wash and core the apples 
but do not pare them; cut them into eighths. Put a 
layer in the bottom of a baking-dish, cover with a 
little sugar, then another layer of apples, then sugar, 
and so continue until you have the desired quantity. 
Cover the bottom of the dish with water; cover the 
dish and bake in a quick oven about fifteen minutes, 
until the apples are soft. They must be tender, but 
quite whole. Serve warm in the pan in which they 
are baked. 

APPLE SAUCE 

Wash and core the apples, but do not pare them. Cut 
them into quarters ; put them into a porcelain-lined or 
granite kettle ; add sufficient water to prevent scorch- 
ing. Cover the kettle, bring quickly to boiling-point, 
press through a colander, and add to each pint four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

APPLE SOUFFLE 

Make apple sauce according to preceding recipe. 
After you have pressed it through the colander, 
sweeten, reheat and fold in the whites of two eggs, 
well beaten, to each pint of apple sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



236 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

PEACHES, TURKISH FASHION 

These dishes are known on the Continent as compotes. 
They may be made frcMn any fruit, cooked just a 
little — ^long enough to be soft — ^and served either on 
toast or on portions of boiled rice. 

Plunge the peaches into boiling water for a mo- 
ment and peel off the skins. Then with a fork or a 
stoner, push out the stone, keeping the peach whole. 
Stand these in a baking-dish; fill the vacant spaces 
with unseeded raisins; dust the peaches with sugar; 
cover the bottom of the baking-dish with water, and 
stand in the oven for about twenty minutes, or until 
the peaches are soft but perfectly whole. Have ready 
a half pound of boiled rice; turn it into a flat dish; 
stand the peaches on top and send at once to the table. 
Serve with plain cream, peach puree, or with nutmeg. 

Cocoanut milk, thickened with a little cornstarch 
and sweetened, makes an exceedingly nice sauce for 
compotes. 

BANANAS 

To serve raw, bananas should be very ripe, almost to 
the point of decay. Unripe bananas are difficult of 
digestion, and should never be given to children unless 
they are cooked. 

BAKED BANANAS 

Remove the skin from one side of the banana, then 
loosen the fruit and take it out. Do not strip the skin 
from one end to the other or the fibre will remain 
on the banana and make it bitter. Place the bananas 
in a porcelain or stoneware dish, dust thickly with 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS 237 

granulated sugar, cover the bottom of the dish with 
water, and bake in a quick oven thirty minutes, basting 
once or twice. 

FRIED BANANAS 

Peel the bananas and cut them into halves, length- 
wise. Have ready heated in a shallow pan about half 
a cup of olive oil. Drop the bananas into the hot oil ; 
when brown on one side turn and brown the other, 
lift at once into a heated dish and send to the table. 
These are very nice to serve with mock steak. They 
are also a nice accompaniment to curries. 

BANANA SOUFFLE 

Peel and mash through a colander six bananas. Add 
to the pulp six tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, and fold in gradually 
the well beaten whites of four eggs. Turn at once 
into a baking-dish, and bake in a quick oven about ten 
minutes. 

STEWED BANANAS 

H cup shelled almonds Grated rind and juice of one 

6 bananas lemon 

Yz cup sugar 

Peel the bananas and cut into slices one inch thick. 
Put into a saucepan, add the sugar and the grated rind 
and juice of the lemon, with just enough water to 
prevent scorching. Cover the saucepan, bring to 
boiling-point, and add the almonds that have been 
blanched and chopped. Turn into a heated dish and 
serve warm. These may also be flavored with 
tamarinds or orange. 



Digitized by 



Google 



238 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BANANA CAKE PUDDING 

% cup butter Juice and grated rind of 

J^ cup sugar one orange 

I egg I saltspoonful mace 

5 ripe bananas 2 tablespoonfuls cream 

2 Uneeda biscuits 

Beat the butter to a cream and add the sugar; beat 
again and add the tgg, unbeaten; continue beating 
until the mixture is light. Add sufficient flour to make 
a stiff dough — ^about one and a half cups. Roll into 
a thin sheet and line a square shallow baking-pan. 
Peel the bananas and chop them very fine. Put them 
in the crust and sprinkle them with two or three table- 
spoonfuls of extra sugar. Put over the rind and juice 
of the orange and two tablespoonfuls of extra butter 
cut into bits. Add the mace, the cream, and the 
crackers, grated. Bake in a moderate oven half an 
hour. Cut into squares and serve warm with milk. 

CANTALOUPES 

Cantaloupes should be thoroughly washed and chilled 

before cutting. Serve a half to each person, carefully 

removing the seeds without bruising the flesh of the 

cantaloupe. 

LILLIAN RUSSELL 

This is made by filling half of a cantaloupe with a 

good-sized portion of vanilla ice cream. Decorate the 

ice cream with whipped cream and send at once to 

the table. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

I quart cranberries i pint sugar 

^2 pint water 

Wash the cranberries; put them in a saucepan with 

the water; cover and bring to boiling-point; boil 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS 239 

rapidly fifteen minutes. Press through a colander; 
bring again to boiling-point; add the sugar and boil 
five minutes. Turn into a mould and stand at once 
in a cold place. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Follow the preceding recipe, using one pint of water 
instead of a half pint. Do not boil after adding the 
sugar. 

BAKED CRANBERRIES 

Wash the cranberries. Allow one quart of cranberries 
to each pound of sugar. Put the cranberries and 
sugar in layers in a baking-dish. Cover and bake in 
a moderate oven one hour, or until the cranberries are 
perfectly transparent. 

STUFFED DATES 

Select ripe soft dates. Remove the stones by cutting 
a slit at the side; do not tear the date. Put into the 
space from which you have taken the stone half an 
English walnut, or an almond or a pecan meat, or, if 
you like, a mixture of chopped nuts. Put the dates 
together, roll them in granulated sugar, and they are 
ready to serve. 

TO SERVE FRESH FIGS 
Fresh figs should be served in a flat dish of cracked ice. 

STUFFED FIGS 

Select dried pulled figs — figs that have been dried 
without being pressed together. Split them open on 



Digitized by 



Google 



240 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

one side, and with a spoon remove the entire inside. 
Put this pulp in a bowl and add an equal quantity of 
chopped almonds, pecans or pinons. Roll the mixture 
into balls, put the balls back into the figs, and arrange 
them neatly on a pretty mat on a glass dish. These, 
of course, are used as sweetmeats. 

STEWED PIGS 

Put one pound of pulled figs into a bowl ; cover with 
cold water; add two bay leaves and soak over night. 
Next morning, turn the figs and the water into a 
saucepan, bring slowly to boiling-point, and lift them 
with a skimmer. Boil down the syrup, pour it over 
the figs, and stand them aside. Serve cold, either 
plain or with cream. 

GRAPE FRUIT 

Grape fruit should be washed as soon as it comes 
from the market, and put into a moderately cold place. 
At serving time cut them into halves crosswise and 
with a sharp knife remove the core and seeds. Then 
cut around each carpel, separating it from the white 
bitter skin, but do not displace the carpels. Stand each 
half on a little doily on a small plate and send to the 
table. Sugar may be added, if desired, but they are 
more wholesome without it. If they are to be served 
as the first course at either lunch or dinner, they 
should be served plain. 

As dessert, the core space may be filled with pow- 
dered sugar, garnished with chopped candied cherries, 
candied violets or rose leaves. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS 241 

GOOSEBERRY SAUCE 

Select large ripe gooseberries. Wash them and put 
them in a kettle, allowing one cup of sugar to each 
two cups of gooseberries. Add just enough water to 
prevent scorching, cover, bring to boiling-point, and 
boil until the gooseberries pop. Press them through 
a colander and they are ready to use. Serve with 
mock duck or goose. 



ORANGES 

One of the nicest ways to serve oranges is to remove 
the yellow rind and then carefully take off every 
particle of the white skin. The rind may be saved for 
conserving. With a sharp knife, cut down one side xA 
each carpel, cut around and up on the other side, 
taking out the carpel without one particle of white 
skin. Serve cold in a pretty glass dish. 

PINEAPPLES 

Pineapples should be perfectly ripe, but free from 
decay. They should be used uncooked. Peel off the 
outside skin; tl\en with a pair of pineapple nippers 
take out the "eyes." Hold the pineapple in your hand, 
crown down, and with a silver fork stick into the 
flesh at the bottom of the pineapple, pulling out a 
piece. Continue until you have all the pineapple 
picked, leaving the core untouched. Serve cold. 

Another nice way is to cut around each little 
flower, using a small sharp knife, keeping the pine- 
apple whole. Stand it on a napkin in a glass dish, 
and serve by picking out the portions and placing them 
on a plate with a little powdered sugar. 

16 



Digitized by 



Google 



242 MRS. rorer's vegetable cxkdkbry 

Pineapple is a digester, and is recommended for 
many forms of stomach indigestion. Cooked, how- 
ever, It has no medicinal value. 

STEWED RHUBARB 

Wash the rhubarb and cut into lengths of one inch; 
do not peel it. To each quart of these pieces allow a 
half pint of water and a half pint of sugar. Put all 
the ingredients in a saucepan and bring to boiling- 
point. The rhubarb, if it is tender and young, should 
be perfectly soft as soon as it is thoroughly heated. 
Take it from the fire and stand it away to cool. 

Remember that rhubarb contains oxalic acid and 
cannot be used in very large quantities. 

WATERMELON 
There are very many ways of serving watermelon. As 
it is one of the subacid fruits it should be made very 
cold before serving. The old-fashioned way of cut- 
ting it into slices or into quarters was cumbersome 
and rather inelegant. One of the daintier ways is to 
cut thick slices from both ends of the watermelon, 
stand it on a round dish and send it to the table. 
Serve by scooping out large pieces with a tablespoon. 
Perhaps the prettiest way of all is to peel ofiE all 
the skin and the white portion. Make the watermelon 
into a solid pink ball ; stand this on a platter, garnish 
the dish with rose-leaves and send it to the table. Or 
fill the platter with finely cracked ice, press the melon 
down in the ice, then garnish over the ice with roses 
on long stems. To serve, cut into slices, then into 
quarters. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS 243 

Another pretty way is to cut the watermelon into 
slices and each slice into quarters; trim off the rind 
and the white portion; stand these pieces, points up, 
in a shallow cut-glass dish, using enough cracked ice 
to keep them cold and in position. 



TO DRY FRUITS 

Apricots, peaches, pears and plums may all be dried 
after the same recipe. 

Remove the stones, cut the fruit into slices, or dry 
them in halves. Spread them in a single layer on a 
hardwood board or in a pan, and put them on the 
floor of a moderate oven. Dry quickly to prevent dis- 
coloration. When dry, put into perfectly clean bags 
and hang them in a dry closet,' or keep them in 
glass jars. 

TO COOK DRIED FRUITS 

Home-made dried fruits do not require washing; 
those you buy, however, must be thoroughly washed 
through several cold waters. Cover with fresh cold 
water and soak over night. Next morning bring to 
boiling-point and simmer gently fifteen minutes. Lift 
the fruit with a skimmer, boil down the liquid ^and 
pour it over the fruit. Do not add sugar. 

PRUNES 
Prunes may be cooked according to the preceding 
recipe, or they may be washed and soaked over night 
and used without cooking. 



Digitized by 



Google 



244 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

Wash and soak a half pound of prunes over night. 
Next morning press them through a colander. Add 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar and then fold in the well 
beaten whites of four eggs. Turn this into a baking- 
dish and bake in a quick oven ten minutes. Serve at 
once. 

PRUNE JELLY 

Wash and soak a pound of prunes over night. Next 
morning, press them through a colander. Add the 
juice of two lemons and one cup of powdered sugar. 
Cover a half box of vegetable gelatin with a pint of 
water and soak thirty minutes. Add one pint of boil- 
ing water and the prunes. Bring to boiling-point, 
and strain at once into a mould. Serve cold with 
dairy or nut cream. 



Digitized by 



Google 



NUT MILKS AND NUT CREAMS 

COCOANUT MILK 

Grate three large cocoanuts and put them into a pan 
with three quarts of boiling water. With a wooden 
paddle work the cocoanut until it is sufficiently cold 
to turn into a cloth and wring. Throw the fibre into 
another pan, put over another quart of boiling water. 
Stand the first milk aside in a cold place. Work the 
cocoanut again, and put this milk, after pressing the 
cocoanut dry, into a separate pan. Throw the fibre 
away. After standing one or two hours there will be 
a thick cream on the surface. This is the cocoanut 
cream, ready for use, and may be served with a little 
of the cocoanut milk as a sauce for many puddings. 
The milk may be used as a foundation for cornstarch 
puddings or custard, or may be thickened for pudding 
sauce. The top is cocoanut cream; underneath is 
cocoanut milk. 

ALMOND MILK 

Almond milk is made by adding a pint of cold water 

to each half pint of ground almonds. Stir thoroughly 

and it is ready for use. The nuts are not strained out. 

This recipe will answer for all kinds of nut milk. 



Digitized by 



Google 



A FEW DAINTY ODD DISHES 

WHITE EGONOO 

For six persons, squeeze the juice from six oranges, 
strain it, and put it into six lemonade glasses. Beat 
the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, heap this on 
top of the orange juice in the six glasses, dust with 
powdered sugar, and send at once to the table. Fruit 
eggnogs with wafers make exceedingly nice luncheons. 

YELLOW EGGNOO 

Allow one egg and the juice of one orange to each 
person. Separate the egg; beat the yolk until creamy 
and the white until stiff. Then mix the two together 
carefully. Add the strained juice of an orange and 
heap it into a lemonade glass. Dust the top with 
powdered sugar and serve with wafers. 

NUT EGGNOO 

Blanch and grind a quarter of a pound of almonds. 
Add the juice of six oranges and stir thoroughly. 
Pour this into six lemonade glasses and dust with 
powdered sugar. This is exceedingly palatable and 
nutritious and is very nice for invalids. 

PINOCHE 

2 cups brown sugar H teaspoonful cream of 

I cup cream tartar 

I cup pecan meats 

Mix the cream, sugar and cream of tartar. Stir over 
the fire until the sugar is melted, then boil slowly until 

216 



Digitized by 



Google 



ODD DISHES 247 

the mixture forms a soft ball when dropped into ice 
water. Take from the fire and add the nuts. Let it 
stand for about ten minutes to cool. Beat until it 
begins to thicken and pour at once into small greased 
patty-pans or into a shallow pan. When cool, cut 
into squares. 

CHOCOLATE SURPRISE 

Put one pound of granulated sugar, a half pint of 
water and a saltspoonful of cream of tartar in a sauce- 
pan. Stir until the sugar is melted ; then with a damp 
cloth wipe down the sides of the pan, boil without stir- 
ring until it forms a soft ball when dropped into cold 
water. Take from the fire and let it stand until cool. 
Then beat rapidly until you have a soft creamy white 
mixture. Add to this two ounces of melted chocolate 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Stand the pan in 
another of boiling water and stir continually until 
this fondant melts. If necessary, add a teaspoonful or 
two of water. Have ready near at hand small oyster 
crackers. Drop in one oyster cracker at a time, lift 
it quickly on a fork, drain it, and turn it on to a 
greased paper. 

These are exceedingly nice, and are sufficiently 
harmless to give to children. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 

These menus are simply suggestions for the 
best methods of blending meatless meals. If 
they should call for ingredients not obtainable 
in your locality, substitute some like dish or 
material and follow the general routine of the 
menu. For instance, if cauliflower is named 
for a dinner, and you cannot get it, and you 
can get cabbage or turnips, use them instead. 
Use French dressing as much as possible for 
dinner salads. Keep on hand a box of Graham 
or oatmeal wafers to serve with sweets, and 
unleavened bread or nut wafers to serve with 
salads. Scotch oat bread is nice to serve with 
fruit for breakfast where you do not serve a 
cereal, or nice with cup or soft custards for 
luncheon or supper. 

The luncheon menus may be used for supper 
where dinner is served at mid day. 



M9 



Digitized by 



Google 



SPRING BILLS OF FARE 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Wheatlet Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Eggs i la Martin Muffins 

Stewed Prunes 

DINNER 

Cream of Asparagus Soup Crodtons 

Escalloped Rice Whole Wheat Bread 

Lettuce Salad Wafers 

Apple Tart 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Chopped Dates in hot Oatmeal Cream 

Rolls Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Stewed Macaroni Com Gems 

Tea 

DINNER 

Emerald Soup Crodtons 

Eggs Coquelicot Rice 

Asparagus Salad 

Whipped Cream Ginger Wafers 

260 



Digitized by 



Google 



MBNUS 251 

BREAKFAST 

Grape Fruit 

Com Meal Mush, cooked over night in fireless cooker 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Eggs k la Gretna Brown Bread 

Fruit 

DINNER 

Mock Chili Con-Came Rice 

Cabbage Salad 
Sliced Oranges 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Bananas Cream 

Whole Wheat Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Eggs Suzanne Celery Salad 

Fruit 

DINNER 

Consomm6 Whole Wheat Bread 

Spaghetti k la Italienne Baked Onions 

Rhubarb Pie 



Digitized by 



Google 



258 MRS. rorer's vbobtablb cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cereal Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Potato Chowder Brown Bread 

Celery 

DINNER 

Grape Fruit Cocktail 

Bean Roast Potato Puff 

Cold Slaw 

Marguerites 

<lr ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Oatmeal Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Scrambled Eggs with Lettuce 

Corn Gems 

Stewed Dried Peaches 

DINNER 

Julienne Soup 

Vegetable Meat Pie Celery 

Sliced Oranges Sponge Cake 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 253 

BREAKFAST 

Steamed Figs Cream 

Whole Wheat Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

White Eggnog Wafers 

Date Sandwiches Cocoa 

DINNER 

Orange Cocktail 

Potato Roll Asparagus on Toast 

Eggs en Panade Jelly or Orange Sauce 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Shirred Eggs Rice Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Mayonnaise of Celery Brown Bread and Butter 

Cocoa Wafers 

DINNER 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Mock Veal Roast Stewed Turnips 

Asparagus Salad 

Cheese Coffee Crackers 



Digitized by 



Google 



254 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 



Sliced Bananas in hot Cereal 






Cream 


Toast 




Coffee 




LUNCHEON 






Mock Clam Bouillon 






Wafers 


Plain Omelet 


Whole Wheat Bread 



DINNER 

Pur6e of Dried Peas Crotitons 

Baked Potatoes Stewed Celery 

Prune Jelly Sponge Cake 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 
Beauregard Eggs Toast ' 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Mock Veal Roast Grape Fruit Salad 

Milk Biscuits 

DINNER 

Consomm^ with Almond Balls 

Mock Tenderloin Steak Stewed Carrots 

Apple Tart Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 



255 



Oatmeal 



Cream 



Steamed Eggs 

Coffee 



Toast 



LUNCHEON 



Apple Salad 



Pop Overs 



DINNER 

Oatmeal Soup Crotitons 

Planked Fish Sauce HoUandaise 

Lettuce Salad 

Orange Jelly Whipped Cream 

Coffee 



Omelet 



Mock Fish Salad 



Mock Oysters 



♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Coffee 
LUNCHEON 

Sliced Oranges 

DINNER 

Grossmutter Soup 

Prune Souffle 
Coffee 



Hot Corn Bread 



Gluten Bread 



Cold Slaw 



Digitized by 



Google 



MRS. RORER's vegetable 


COOKERY 


BREAKFAST 




Fniit 
Cream of Wheat 

Quaker Omelet 

Coffee 


Cream 
Toast 


LUNCHEON 




« of Tomato with Celery 
Apple Biscuit Pudding 


Croutons 
Milk 


DINNER 

Spaghetti Timbales Cheese Sauce 

Unleavened Bread 

Carrot Salad Wafers 

Poor Man's Tartlets Coffee 



♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Scrambled Eggs Whole Wheat Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Stewed Asparagus Mush Bread 

DINNER 

Baked Beans with Tomato Sauce 

White Bread and Butter 

Sour Cream Skw 

Orange Sherbet 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 



257 



Boiled Rice 
Toast 



Cream 



Coflfec 



LUNCHEON 

Baked Potatoes Eggs Mexicana 

Stewed Rhubarb 

DINNER 

White Eggnog Wafers 

Turkish Cabbage Sauce Bechamel 

Potato Puff 

Mock Mince Pie 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 



BREAKFAST 

Fruit 
Soft Boiled Egg 

Coifee 



Toast 



LUNCHEON 
Cannelon of Canned Peas 

DINNER 

Tomato Bouillon 
Eggs k la Tripe 

Orange Tapioca 

X7 



Milk and Cream 



Wafers 
Mush Bread 



Digitized by 



Google 



258 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Rolled Wheat Cream 

Eggs Coffee Toast 

LUNCHEON 

Rice Croquettes Mayonnaise of Celery 

Rolls 

DINNER 

Mock Steak Cream Horseradish Sauce 

Fried Bananas 

Lettuce and Orange Salad Wafers 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Pineapple 

Omelet Rye or Graham Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Com Pudding (canned com) Thin Bread 

Tea Wafers 

DINNER 

Pineapple and Orange Cocktails 

Eggs au Mirroir Gluten Bread 

Baked Potatoes 

Date Tarts 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 



259 



BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Com Meal Mush, cooked in fireless cooker over night 

Cream 

Toast Eggs 

Coffee 



LUNCHEON 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 



Croutons 



DINNER 
Sago Soup 
Bean Croquettes 

Mashed Potatoes 
Asparagus Salad 
Water Jelly 

♦ ♦ ♦ 



Tomato Sauce 

Wafers 
Sabayon Sauce 



BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Eggs a la Martin Baking Powder Biscuit 

Coffee 



LUNCHEON 
Purde of Lentils 

Fruit 



Toast 



DINNER 
Irish Soup 
Eggs Virginia Celery 

Cold Rice Pudding 



Whole Wheat Gems 
Sponge Cake 



Digitized by 



Google 



260 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Oatmeal Cieam 

Eggs Scrambled Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Steamed Figs Cream 

Whole Wheat Bread and Butter 

DINNER 

Barley Soup 

Vegetable Chicken Pie Celery Salad 

Maple Cup Custards 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Toasted Corn Flakes Fruit Juice 

Eggs Muffins 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Rissotto Brown Bread 

Chocolate with Whipped Cream 

DINNER 

Vegetable Soup 

Nut Cannelon Cream Sauce 

Baked or Stuffed Potatoes 

Asparagus Salad 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



MBNUS S61 

BREAKFAST 

Chopped steamed Figs in hot Cream of Wheat Cream 

Broiled Nut Cannelon Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Stewed Prunes with Orange Juice 
Brown Bread Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Peanut Soup Crofttons 

Celery Salad White Bread and Butter 

Compote of Rice and Canned Peaches Wafers 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Boiled Rice Cream 

Eggs Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Warm Ginger Bread Whipped Cream 

DINNER 

Lemon Cocktail 

Red B€ans, Spanish style Rice 

Cabbage Salad Wafers 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



MRS. RORER'S vegetable COOKERY 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

nain Omelet Corn Gems 

Coffee 



LUNCHEON 
Farmers' Rice Celery Salad 

DINNER 

Soup Soubise Toast 

Curried Eggs Rice 

Baked Bananas 

Lettuce Salad Wafeis 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cereal Cream 

Shirred Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Brown Bread 

Rice with Prunes 

DINNER 

Indian Soup Rice 

Mock Goose Apple Sauce 

Stewed Celery 

Lettuce Salad Wafers 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 263 

BREAKFAST 

Eggs Suzanne Whole Wheat Bread 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Mock Goose Lettuce Salad 

White Bread and Butter 

DINNER 

Peas Porridge Crotitons 

Lettuce Salad Brown Bread 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 



BREAKFAST 




Fruit 




Cereal 


Cream 


Boiled Eggs 


Toast 


Coffee 




LUNCHEON 




Mock Clam Chowder 


Crackers 


DINNER 




Soup Cricy 


Croutons 



Pecan Sausage Tomato Sauce 

Cold Slaw 

Sliced Hawaiian Pineapple (canned) 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUMMER MENUS 

BREAKFAST 
Strawberries 
Whole Wheat Gems 



Coffee 



LUNCHEON 

Broiled Tomatoes Com Gems 

Iced Cocoa Whipped Cream 



DINNER 




Strawberry Cocktail 




Stuffed Cucumbers 


Brown Sauce 


Rice 


Peas 


Mayonnaise of Tomatoes 


Wafers 


Coffee 




♦ ♦ ♦ 




BREAKFAST 




Berries 




Canned Tomatoes 


Com Gems 


Coffee 




LUNCHEON 




Strawberry Shortcake 


Cream 


DINNER 




Cream of Pea Soup 


Crofttons 


Eggs Jefferson 


Cream Sauce 


Potato Croquettes 


String Beans 


Lettuce Salad 


Wafers 


Vanilla Ice Cream 





2C4 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 265 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Poached Eggs on Fried Tomatoes 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Corn Chowder Whole Wheat Bread 

DINNER 

Tomato Bouillon 

Baked Eggplant Peas 

New Cabbage Salad 

Strawberries 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Salad of Tomatoes Stuffed with Peas Mayonnaise 

Brown Bread Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Brunswick Stew Com Mush Bread 

String Bean Salad 

Fruit 



Digitized by 



Google 



266 


MRS. RORER'S vegetable 


COOKERY 






BREAKFAST 






Berries 

Oatmeal Cream 

Toast Coffee 






LUNCHEON 




Eggs 


i la Creole 


Fruit 
DINNER 


Graham Bread 


Raspberry Cup 

Lima Bean Roast Plain Baked Tomatoes 

Cherry Salad Wafers 



♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Cold Molded Cream of Wheat with Berries Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Stewed Corn Brown Bread 

Marguerites 

DINNER 

Cantaloupe 

Stuffed Peppers (nuts) Stewed Cucumbers 

Cherry Pudding 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 267 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 
Omelet Fresh Com Griddle Cakes 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Nut Sandwiches Raspberries 

DINNER 

Cream of Com Soup 

Eggplant, Fried Ceylon Tomato Salad 

Baked Potatoes or Boiled Rice 

Strawberry Tapioca Cream 

^ ^ ^ 





BREAKFAST 




Baked Bananas 
Shirred Eggs 

Coffee 


Toast 




LUNCHEON 




Lentil Soup 


DINNER 


Crodtons 


Nut Croquettes 
Frozen Strawberries 


Consomm6 

Peas 

Coffee 


Tomato Sauce 

•Wafers 



Digitized by 



Google 



268 MRS. RORER S VEQSTABLE COOKERY 

BRBAKFAST 

Fruit 

Rolled Wheat Cream 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Mayonnaise of Tomatoes Nut Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Purte of Tomato and Peas 

Mock Goose Gooseberry Sauce 

String Beans 

Chocolate Surprise 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 
Beauregard Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

DINNER 

Cold Sliced Mock Goose 
Tomatoes Sliced with French Dressing 

DINNER 

Cream of Green Peas 

Bean Loaf with Rice Stewed Com 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 269 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Wheatlet Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Bean Loaf Sliced Cold Slaw 

Rolls or White Bread and Butter 

DINNER 

Cardinal Soup 

Omelet with Green Peas 

Boiled Rice 

String Bean Salad Wafers 

Strawberry Cannelon 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Huckleberries 

Broiled Tomatoes Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Dutch Huckleberry Pudding and Milk 

DINNER 

Farmers' Soup 

Stuffed Tomatoes (nuts and rice) Com on Cob 

Blackberry Flummery . Cream 



Digitized by 



Google 



270 MRS. rorer's vegetable 


COOKERY 




BREAKFAST 




Oatmeal 

Eggs 


Raspberries 

Coffee 
LUNCHEON 


Cream 
Toast 


Cup Baked Tomatoes 


Fruit 


Gluten Gems 



DINNER 

Clear Soup (stock) 

Mock Duck Currant Jelly 

Peas 

Tomato Salad French Dressing Wafers 

Coffee 

BREAKFAST 

Molded Oatmeal, garnished with Berries Cream 

Broiled Tomatoes Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Rice, boiled with Raisins Cream 

DINNER 

Mock Meat Soup 

Mock Duck Salad White Bread and Butter 

Lady Baltimore Cake Berries 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 371 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cereal Cream 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Colonial Rolls Iced Cocoa, Cream 

DINNER 

Cream of Potato Soup 

Stuffed Cucumbers Brown Sauce 

Corn a la Rorer 

New Cabbage Salad 

Nut Meringues Coffee 

^ 4^ ^ 

BREAKFAST 

Eggs Jefferson Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Bobotee Salad Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Mock Clam Bouillon or Consomm^ 

Corn Fritters Stewed Okra and Tomatoes 

Chinese Salad 

Blackberries Wafers 



Digitized by 



Google 



272 MRS. rorbr's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Omelet Muffins 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Cheese Fondue Toast 

DINNER 

Portuguese Soup 

Mock Fish Sauce Hollandaise 

Potato Boulettes Cucumber Salad 

Whipped Cream Graham Wafers 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Whole Wheat, cooked all night in tireless cooker 

Cream 

Rice Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese Sandwiches String Bean Salad 

DINNER 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Warmed over Mock Fish Succotash 

Lettuce Salad Wafers 

Berries 



Digitized by 



Google 



M£NUS 

BREAKFAST 

Plums 



Beauregard Eggs 



Coffee 



LUNCHEON 
Nut Roly Poly 



Com Pudding 



Beet Salad 



DINNER 

Grossmutter Soup 

String Beans 
Coffee 

<► <► 4^ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 



Boiled Dry Rice 
Eggs 



Coffee 
LUNCHEON 



Blackberry Shortcake 



273 
Toast 

Cream 

Creamed Potatoes 
Wafers 



Cream 



Toast 



Cream 



DINNER 

Macaroni k la Italienne 

Fried Eggplant Ceylon Tomato Salad 

Berries Cream 

Old Time Whigs 



Digitized by 



Google 



274 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cereal Cream 

Rolls Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Tomatoes on the half shell Gems 

DINNER 

CoDsomm^ with Farina Blocks 

Jambolaya Rice 

Beets 

New Cabbage Salad 

Coffee Ice Cream 

4. ^ 4. 

BREAKFAST 

Hot stewed Blackberries Com Flakes 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Huckleberries Oatmeal Brown Bread 

DINNER 

Cream of Com Soup 

Bean Stew with Dumplings Peas 

Cabbage Hongroise 

Sugared Currants Sponge Cake 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 275 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Eggs Virginia Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato Salad Nut Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Soup of left over Bean Stew 

Eggs k la Hyde German Fried Potatoes 

String Beans 

Dutch Blackberry Pudding Hard Sauce 

Coffee 

V V V 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cereal Cream 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Corn Oysters Sliced Tomatoes 

Thin Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Large Omelet Com Louisiana 

Lettuce Salad 

Watermelon 



Digitized by 



Google 



276 MRS. ror£r's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 



Cantaloupe 
Soft Eggs 

Coffee 


Rolls 


LUNCHEON 




Cheese Sandwiches 


Cress Salad 



DINNER 

Tomato Soup Crodtons 

Baked Eggplant Brown Sauce 

Fricassee of Corn 

Peach Rice Dumplings Fruit Sauce 

♦ <► ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Shirred Eggs Gluten Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Rice Pudding Nut Wafers 

DINNER 

Cream of Green Pea Soup 

Mock Turkey Currant Jelly 

Peas Com on the Cob 

Lettuce Salad Waifers 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



Toast Blocks 



MENUS 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupe 

Coffee 



277 



Cream 



LUNCHEON 

Potato Salad, Sidney Smith's Dressing Brown Bread 

DINNER 

Cold sliced Mock Turkey, broiled Tomato Sauce 

Com k la Rorer 

String Bean Salad Wafers 

Fruit 



Eggs 



♦ <► ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Coffee 



Toast 



LUNCHEON 

Sliced Nut Cheese Lettuce Salad 

Sandwiches 

DINNER 

New Lima Bean Roast Brown Sauce 

Beets k la Rorer 

Mayonnaise of Tomato Wafers 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



278 MRS. rorer's vegbtable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupes 

Molded Cream of Wheat Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHSON 

Nut Cheese Sandwiches Tomato Salad 

DINNER 

Curry of New Kidney Beans Rice 

Fried Bananas Ceylon Cucumber Salad 

Watermelon 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Plums 

Eggs k la Martin Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Com Oysters Cold Slaw 

DINNER 

Cream of Lima Bean Soup 

Potato Croquettes Stewed Com in Tomatoes 

Lettuce Salad Wafers 

Lemon Jelly Cream 

Molasses Cookies 



Digitized by 



Google 



AUTUMN MENUS 

BREAKFAST 

Mixed Whole Fruits 

Panned Baked Tomatoes Com Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Cheese Omelet White Bread 

DINNER 

Por^ of Fresh Lima Beans Crodtons 

Stuffed Squash Brown Sauce 

String Bean Salad 

Iced Watermelon 

▼ ▼ *v* 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupe 

Rolled Wheat Cream 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cream of Tomato Soup Whole Wheat Bread 

DINNER 

Mock Meat Soup 

Flanked Mock Fish Sauce Hollandaise 

Lettuce Salad 

Honolulu Sandwiches Coffee 

279 



Digitized by 



Google 



280 MRS. rorbr's vegetable cookery 

BRfiAKFAST 

Fruit 

Beanr^iard Elggs Toast 

Coffee 



LUNCHEON 
Bobotee Sandwiches 



Cocoa 



DINNER 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Warmed over Mock Fish Tomato Sauce 

Cauliflower Baked Potatoes 

Sliced Peaches Graham Wafers 

♦ ♦ ♦ 



BREAKFAST 




Fruit 




Oatmeal 


Cream 


Broiled Tomatoes 


Toast 


Coffee 




LUNCHEON 




Peach Shortcake 


Cream 


DINNER 




Consommd 




Potato Roll 


Cream Sauce 


String Beans 




Cabbage Salad 


Wafers 


Coffee 





Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 281 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Bananas in hot Cereal Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Cheese Sandwiches Lettuce or Cress Salad 

DINNER 

Cream of Mushroom Soup 

Chisula Beets k la Rorer 

Cauliflower Salad Wafers 

Coffee 

<► ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupe 

Shirred Eggs Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Potato Chowder Ship Biscuit, or unleavened Bread 

DINNER 

Soup Cr^y (Cauliflower Water) 

Baked Rice String Beans 

Brown Bread 

Mayonnaise of Cabbage 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



MRS. RORBR'S VECETABLE COOKERY 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Peaches 
Rice Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Eggs Creole Rice 

DINNER 

Consomm^ 

Eggs k la Dauphin Potato Puff 

Stewed Celery 

Peach Rice Dumplings Purde of Peaches 

♦ ♦ ♦ 



BREAKFAST 






Grapes 
Com Flakes 

Toast 


Coffee 


Cream 


LUNCHEON 






Pur^ of Lentils 


Croutons 


DINllER 






Palestine Soup 







Mock Oysters Cold Slaw 

Oatmeal Brown Bread 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad 

Fruit 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 283 

BREAKFAST 

Grapes 

Boiled Rice Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Baked Potato Unleavened Bread 

Fruit 

DINNER 

Brunswick Stew Rice 

Cabbage Salad 

Batter Pudding with Purde of Peaches 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Grapes 

Cream of Wheat Cream 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese melted in Crackers Celery 

DINNER 

Pur^ of Black Beans CroCltons 

Baked Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes 

Waldorf Salad Wafers 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



284 MRS. rorbr's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Fruits 

Whole Wheat, cooked over night in fireless cooker 

Cream 

Rolls Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Macaroni, stewed with Cream Sauce 
Whole Wheat Bread 

DINNER 

Cream of Lima Bean Soup CroCltons 

Celery Olives 

Spanish Omelet Rice 

Lettuce Salad 

Grapes 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Oatmeal Cream 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Nut Sandwiches Potato Salad, Farmers' Dressing 

DINNER 

Bean Stew with Dumplings 

Cauliflower, Hungarian Fashion 

Lettuce Salad 

Whipped Cream Graham Wafers 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 



285 



Wheatlet 



Cream 



Toa3t 



Coffee 



Eggs 



LUNCHEOR 

Cream of Tomato Soup 



Toast 



DINNER 

Spaghetti k la Caruso Baked Potato 

Celery and Lettuce Salad 

Sliced Peaches Graham Wafers 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cream of Wheat Cream 

Unleavened Bread Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Tomatoes on the Half Shell Cream Sauce 

Toast 

DINNER 

Mock Clam Soup 

Curry of Green Kidney Beans Rice 

Baked Bananas 

Cabbage Salad Wafers 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



286 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Plain Omelet Whole Wheat Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Indian Soup (left over Curry) Rice 

DINNER 

Mock Meat Soup 

Eggs A la Rorer (canned Artichokes) Rice Croquettes 

String Bean Salad 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cereal Cream 

Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Turkish Cabbage Rolls Corn Bread 

DINNER 

Cream of Celery Soup Cro(itons 

Nut Croquettes Tomato Sauce 

Beets k la Rorer 

Lettuce Salad Wafers 

Pop Overs Jelly Sauce 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 287 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Bananas in hot Oatmeal Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Fruit Gems Cocoa, whipped Cream 



DINNER 




Oatmeal Soup 


Croutons 


Celery 


Olives 


Egg Timbales 


Cream Sauce 


Rice 




Peach Cannelons 


Cream 



♦ ♦ ♦ 



BREAKFAST 



Com Flakes Grape Juice 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Oatmeal Bread Milk 

DINNER 

Soup Soubise Croutons 

Stuffed Peppers Stewed Cabbage 

English Green Apple Tart 



Digitized by 



Google 



288 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Grapes 

Scrambled Eggs Com Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Lettuce and Walnut Sandwiches Cocoa 

DINNER 

Consomme 

Vegetable Chicken Pie .Cauliflower 

Lemon Sherbet Wafers 

# ♦ ♦ 



BREAKFAST 




Baked Seckle Pears 
Whole Gems 


Cream 
Coffee 


LUNCHEON 




Windsor Sandwiches 


Grapes 


DINNER 




Sago Soup 

Mexican Omelet Baked Potatoes 

Stuffed Beet Salad 

Fruit 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 289 

BREAKFAST 

Grapes 

Cream of Wheat Cream 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Nut Sandwiches Mayonnaise of Apple 

DINNER 

Barley Soup 

Pecan Sausage Tomato Sauce 

Potato Puff 

New Carrot Salad Wafers 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Plain Omelet Breakfast Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Apple Biscuit Pudding Milk 

DINNER 

Tapioca Soup 

Macaroni i la Milanaise Rice 

New Turnips Cream Sauce 

Frozen Banan^ 

2f 



Digitized by 



Google 



290 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Spaghetti Croquettes Tomato Sauce 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Fruit Sandwich Celery 

DINNER 

Cream of Turnip Soup 

Mock Duck New Apple Sauce 

Chiffonade Salad 

Apple Souffl6 Graham Wafers 

* ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Oatmeal Cream 

Egp Brown Bread 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Cheese Sandwiches Apple 

DINNER 

Pur^e of Green Lima Beans Croutons 

Broiled Slices of Mock Duck Panned Baked Apples 

Celery with French Dressing 

Orange Tapioca 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 291 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Peaches in Cream of Wheat Cream 

Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Olive Salad Bread and Butter 

DINNER 

Mock .Clam Bouillon 

Omelet with Tomatoes Grilled Sweet Potatoes 

Cabbage Salad in Cabbage Cup 

Poor Man's Tartlets 

4» 4» ♦ 



BREAKFAST 




Fruit 




Oatmeal 


Cream 


Unleavened Bread 


Coffee 



LUNCHEON 
Cream of Potato Soup Graham Bread 

DINNER 

Pur^e of Dried Beans Crofttons 

Celery and Apple Salad Thin Bread and Butter 

Apple Souffle 



Digitized by 



Google 



2\)2 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Grapes 

Eggi Mush Bread 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Rice Pudding Brown Bread Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Grossmutter Soup 

Spaghetti k la Italienne Baked Potatoes 

Onions in Cream Sauce 

Lettuce, French Dressing Wafers 

Nut Blocks 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cereal Cream 

Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Peanut Sandwiches Apples or Grapes 

DINNER 

Cream of Beet Soup (Cardinal) 

Mock Chicken Salad White Bread Sandwiches 

Banana Cake Pudding 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 293 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Beauregard Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Fruit Gems Cocoa 

DINNER 

Vegetable Soup 

Eggs i la Valenciennes Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Stewed Celery 

Fruit Salad Wafers 



♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 
Eggs Whole Wheat Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Baked Potatoes Nut Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Consomm6 

Vegetable Meat Pie String Beans 

Celery 

Orange Sherbet Wafers 



Digitized by 



Google 



WINTER MENUS 

BRSAKFAST 

Baked Apples 
Oatmeal Cream 

Eggs Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cream of Potato and Celery Soup 

Whole Wheat Bread 

DINNER 

Parte of Mexican Beans Croutons 

Baked Potatoes Browned Parsnips 

Spinach Salad 

Prune Souffle 

♦ 4^ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Bananas in hot Rolled Wheat Cream 

Graham Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Rice Croquettes Cream Sauce 

DINNER 

Cream of Salsify Soup (Mock Oyster) 

Pecan Sausage Brown Sauce 

Grilled Sweet Potatoes Sour German Cabbage 

Apple Tapioca 

294 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 295 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Corn Meal Mush Milk 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Fried Mush Coddled Apples 

DINNER 

Soup Cr6cy 
Broiled Pecan Sausage Sauce HoUandaise 

Rice 
Mayonnaise of Apple and Celery Wafers 

♦ 4» ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Eggs Breakfast Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Stewed Prunes Mush Bread 

DINNER 

Pur6e of Lentils Croutons 

Mock Oysters Cold Slaw 

Apple Tart 



Digitized by 



Google 



296 MRS. rorbr's vegetable 


COOKERY 


BREAKFAST 




Fruit 
Cream of Wheat 
Eggs 

Coffee 


Cream 
Toast 


LUNCHEON 




Cheese Sandwiches 


Tart Apples 



DINNER 

Vegetable Soup 

Spaghetti k la Milanaise Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Waldorf Salad Nut Sandwiches 

Cocoa Whipped Cream 

4» ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Date Gems Scrambled Eggs 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Soup Soubise Brown Bread 

DINNER 

Tomato Soup (thin portion of canned Tomatoes) 

Mock Turkey Cranberry Sauce 

Stewed Celery 

Combination Salad Wafers 

Lemon Jelly Graham Wafers 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 297 

BREAKFAST * 

Baked Apples 

Oatmeal Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Mock Turkey Salad White Bread Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Consomme 

Broiled Slices of Mock Turkey Tomato Sauce 

Cabbage Hongroise 

Steamed Apples Cream 

Sponge Cake 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Hominy Grits Cream 

Brown Bread Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Mayonnaise of Celery Nut Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Cream of Celery Soup Crodtons 

Poached Eggs on Squares of fried Hominy 

Cream Sauce 

Grilled Sweet Potatoes Spinach 

Lady Baltimore Cake 



Digitized by 



Google 



298 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

' BREAKFAST 

Steamed Figs Cream 

Whole Wheat Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Potato Chowder Unleavened Bread 

DINNER 

Brunswick Stew (canned Vegetables) Rice 

Tomato Jelly with Celery 

Prune Souffle 

♦ ♦ ♦ 



BREAKFAST 




Baked Apples 




Boiled Rice 


Cream 


Toast Coffee 




LUNCHEON 




Date and Nut Sandwiches 


Cocoa 


DINNER 




Grossmutter Soup 




\ Coquelicot 


Cream Sauce 


Sweet Potato Croquettes 




Lettuce Salad 


Wafers 



Stewed Prunes Sponge Cake 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 299 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Gluten Mush Cream 

Unleavened Bread Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Stewed Macaroni Whole Wheat Bread and Butter 

DINNER 

Dried Peas Porridge Crofttons 

Sweet Potato Croquettes Stewed Yellow Turnips 

Waldorf Salad Tin3r Sandwiches 

Chocolate, Whipped Cream 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Apples Whole Wheat Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Nut Sandwiches Celery 

Orange 

DINNER 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Stewed Dried Lima Beans Tomato Sauce 

Baked Potatoes 

Cabbage Salad in Cabbage Cup 

Pop Overs Orange Sauce 



Digitized by 



Google 



300 MRS. rorbr's vegetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Chopped Dates in hot Cream of Wheat Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Steamed Figs Cream Gems 

DINNER 

Cardinal Soup 

Nut Cannelon Cream Sauce 

Stewed Sour Cabbage 

Apple Tart 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Oatmeal Cream 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Sliced Nut Cannelon Mayonnaise of Apple 

DINNER 

Cream of Turnip Soup 
Bean Croquettes Tomato Sauce 

Rice 

Grape Fruit Salad Nut Sandwiches 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 301 

BREAKFAST 

Baked Apples 

Rolled Wheat Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Cream of Potato Soup Unleavened Bread 

DINNER 

Mock Oyster Soup 

Pecan Steaks Cranberry Jelly 

Rice 

Lettuce Salad Wafers 

Coffee 



♦ ♦ ♦ 



BREAKFAST 




Fruit 




Com Meal Mush 


Milk 


Unleavened Bread 


Coffee 


LUNCHEON 




Vegetable Sandwiches 


Coc< 



DINNER 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Spanish Omelet Baked Potatoes 

Orange Salad Wafers 



Digitized by 



Google 



MRS. RORERS VEGETABLE COOKERY 

BREAKFAST 

Baked Apples Cream 

Gems CofTee 

LUNCHEON 
Cheese Sandwiches Apples 



DINNER 

Consomme 

Mock Fish Hollandaise Sauce 

Potato Boulettes 

Chicory or Endive or Cabbage Salad 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Cereal Cream 

Toast Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Canned Peach Dumplings Milk 

DINNER 

Oatmeal Soup 

Broiled Slices of Mock Fish Apple Sauce 

Celery 

Orange Tapioca 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 303 

BREAKFAST 

Steamed Raisins Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Egg Sandwiches Celery 

DINNER 

Peanut Soup Com Loaf 

Lettuce and Apple French Dressing 

Prune Jelly 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

'Apple Sauce Fried Mush 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Stewed Prunes Toasted Com Loaf 

DINNER 

Pur6e of Tomato (canned) 

Banana Cannelon Currant Jelly 

Onions in Cream Sauce 

Poor Man's Tartlets 



Digitized by 



Google 



304 MRS. rorer's vbgetable cookery 

BREAKFAST 

Onuig€8 

Eggs Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Banana Cannelon Sandwiches Cocoa 

DINNER 

Indian Soup 

Curry of Red Beans Rice 

Baked Bananas 

Tomato Jelly on Lettuce Farmers* Dressing 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Date Gems Shirred Eggs 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Apple Biscuit Pudding Milk 

DINNER 

Consomm6 k la Royal 

Eggs Coquelicot Cream Sauce 

Baked Sweet or White Potato Peas (canned) 

Cabbage Salad Wafers 

Banana Cake Pudding 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 305 

BREAKFAST 

Baked Apples Cream 

Gems CofTee 

LUNCHEON 

Stewed Prunes Brown Bread 

DINNER 

Consomm6 Crofitons 

Rice a la Anglaise Spinach 

Mock Mince Pie 

Coffee 



♦ ♦ ♦ 



BREAKFAST 

Chopped Dates in hot Cream of Wheat Cream 

Toast Coffee 



LUNCHEON 
Peanut Sandwiches Sliced Oranges 

DINNER 

Mock Clam Bouillon Whipped Cream 

Boiled Mock Tenderloin Steak Ladies' Cabbage 

Lettuce Salad Wafers 

Chocolate Surprise 

20 



Digitized by 



Google 



306 MRS. RORER^S VEGETABLE COOKERY 

BREAKFAST 

Baked Apples Cream 

Eggs Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 
Cup Custards White Bread and Butter 

DINNER 

Cream of Salsify Soup Crackers 

Omelet with Peas (canned) Potato Croquettes 

Spanish Salad 

Brown Betty 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Com Meal Mush Milk 

Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Rice Pudding Nut Sandwiches 

DINNER 

Pur^e of Black Beans 

Baked Macaroni Potato Puff 

Cabbage Salad Wafers 

Water Jelly Sabayon Sauce 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 307 

BREAKFAST 

Steamed Figs Cream 

Gems Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Boiled Hominy with Raisins Cream 

DINNER 

Potato Chowder 

Mock Chicken Salad Brown Bread 

Batter Pudding with Pur6e of Peaches 

♦ 4» ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Plain Omelet Gems 

Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Boiled Rice with Stewed Prunes 
Rolls 

DINNER 

Grossmutter Soup 

Bean Roast Tomato Sauce 

Cabbage Salad 

English Apple Tart 



Digitized by 



Google 



308 MRS. rorer's vegbtablb cookbry 

BREAKFAST 
Sliced Bananas in hot Hominy 



Milk 



Gems 



Ck>ffee 



LUNCHEON 
Baked Apples 

Ginger Bread 



Cream 



Celery 
Nut Croquettes 



DINNER 

Sago Soup 



Olives 

Tomato Sauce 



Red Dutch Cabbage 
Apple Souffle 



Oatmeal 



♦ ♦ ♦ 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 



Toast 



Coffee 



Milk 



Olive Salad 



LUNCHEON 

White Bread Sandwiches 



Mock Ham 



DINNER 

Consomme 

German Sour Cabbage 
Orange Tapioca 



Cider Sauce 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 309 



A FEW SPRING COMPANY SUPPERS 

Orange Cocktails in Orange Cups 

Eggs a TAurore Baking Powder Biscuit 

Asparagus Salad Wafers 

Ice Cream Sponge Cake 



♦ ♦ ♦ 

Tomato Bouillon Whipped Cream 

Sliced Nut Cheese Mayonnaise of Celery 

Parker House Rolls 

Orange Jelly Sponge Cake 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

Mock Clam Bouillon Whipped Cream 

Omelet with fresh Asparagus Tea Gems 

Waldorf Salad Small Cheese Sandwiches 

Marguerites Coffee 



SUMMER SUPPERS 

Strawberry Cocktail 

Macaroni Croquettes Cheese Sauce 

Pop Overs Unleavened Whole Wheat Bread 

Mayonnaise of Tomatoes Small Nut Sandwiches 

Bisque Ice Cream 



Digitized by 



Google 



310 MRS. rorer's vegetable cookery 

Lemon CocktaO 

Thin slices of Nut Cheese Lettuce Salad 

Brown Bread and Butter 

Strawberries Sponge Cake 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

Tomato Bouillon Wafers 

Com Oysters Whole Wheat Gems 

New Cabbage Salad 

Frozen Custard Nut Meringues 



AXn^UMN SUPPERS 

Pepper Cocktails 

Omelet with Peas Graham Bread 

Salad of Tomatoes and Lettuce Wafers 

Sliced Peaches Sponge Cake 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

Mock Oyster Soup in Cups Wafers 

Spaghetti Timbals Cream Sauce 

Peas Rolls 

Mixed Fruits and Nuts 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

Pur6e of Tomato, Whipped Cream . Wafers 

Mock Chicken Salad Whole Wheat Bread 

Peach Cannelon Cream 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 311 

SMALL EVENING AFFAIRS 

Nut and Fruit Sandwiches Chocolate, Whipped Cream 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

Mock Chicken Salad White Bread Sandwiches 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

Thin Slices Mock Ham Grape Fruit Salad 

White Bread Sandwiches 

4» ♦ ♦ 

Nut Sandwiches Apple Salad 

Coffee 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

Banana Salad Peanut Sandwiches 

♦ ♦ 4» 

Bobotee Sandwiches Chocolate 

♦ ♦ ♦ 

Orange Jelly Marguerites 



Digitized by 



Google 



312 MRS. rorer's vegbtabls cookery 



SPRING COMPANY LUNCHEON 

Mock Clam BotdUon Whipped Cream 

Eggs Coquelicot Cream Sauce 

Boiled Rice 

Grape Fruit Salad Tiny Sandwiches 

Bisque Ice Cream Marquerites 

AUTUMN LUNCHEON 

Cream of Tomato Soup in Cups Croutons 

Nut Croquettes Sauce Hollandaise 

Tomato Salad Wafers 

Orange Sherbet Wafers 

A SPRING LUNCHEON 

Yellow and Red 

Orange Cocktails 

Eggs Coquelicot Cream Sauce 

Boiled Rice 

Cherry Salad Wafers 

Bisque Ice Cream Marguerites 

SUMMER LUNCHEON 

Pink 

Strawberry Cocktail 
Nut Croquettes Tomato Sauce 

Peas 

Asparagus Salad Wafers 

Vanilla Ice Cres^n Nut Wafers 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 313 

AUTUMN LUNCHEON 

With Antomn Leaves 

Cantaloupe Cocktail 

Macaroni Timbdes Cream Sauce 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Peas Salad in Tomatoes Wafers 

Watermelon, served whole without Rind 

A WINTER LUNCHEON 

Ferns in Center of Table 

Mock Oyster Soup Crackers 

Mock Chicken Salad Parker House Rolls 

Orange Jelly Marguerites 

Coffee 

A SPRING COMPANY DINNER 

Grape Fruit 

Spanish Omelet Molded Spinach 

New Potatoes 

Asparagus Salad Wafers 

Strawberry Sherbet 

SUMMER DINNER 

Cantaloupes 

Stuffed Peppers Tomato Sauce 

Corn k la Rorer 

Mayonnaise of Tomatoes Wafers 

Frozen Raspberries Wafers 



Digitized by 



Google 



314 MRS. RORER'S vegetable COOKERY 

AUTUMN DINNER 



Cream of Tomato 


Soup 


Crodtons 


Eggs Jefferson 




Cream Sauce 


Rice 




Peas 


String Bean Salad oi 


\ Lettuce 


Wafers 


Frozen Peaches 


Coffee 


Sponge Cake 



WINTER DINNER 

Consomm^ 4 la Royal 

Mock Duck Apple Sauce 

Turnip Cups with Carrots 

Waldorf Salad Wafers 

Orange Jelly Marguerites 



A THANKSGIVING DINNER 

Mock Oyster Soup Crackers 

Celery Olives 

Mock Turkey Sauce Soubisc 

Cranberry Jelly 

Canned Peas Sweet Potatoes 

Thanksgiving Pie Mock Mince Pie 

Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 



315 



A CHRISTMAS DINNER 

Grape Fruit or Consomme 



Celery 


Olives 


Mock Goose 


Apple Sauce 


Baked Onions 


Rice 


Apple Salad, French Dressing 


Wafers 


Plum Pudding 


Orange Sauce 


Coffee 




Candies Fruits 


Nuts 



EVENING AFFAIRS, AS CHURCH 
SUPPERS, ETC. 

Cold Sliced Mock Ham Nut Cheese 

Cranberry Jelly 

Mock Chicken Salad 

Brown Bread Sandwiches 

Windsor Sandwiches Plain Bread and Butter 

Olives Salted Nuts 

Orange Jelly Orange Sherbet 

Sponge Cake Marguerites 

Coffee Cocoa 



AUTUMN FESTIVAL SUPPER 



Nut Sandwiches 
Rolls 
Tomato Salad 
Sliced Peaches 
Watermelons 



Brown Bread Sandwiches 
Wafers 
Apple Salad 
Cream Sponge Cake 

Grapes Cantaloupes 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



Almond Milk, 245 

Alligator Pear SaUd, 165 
Appetiwn^ 9 

Cantaloupe Cocktail, 12 
Grape Fruit Cocktail, 10 
Lemon Cocktail, 11 
Orange Cocktail, 10 
Pepper Cocktail, 12 
Raspberry Cup, 11 
Strawberry Cocktail, 10 
Tomato Cocktail, 18 
Apple, The, 234 

Biscuit Pudding, 218 
Butter, 202 
Dowdy, 224 
Dumplmgs, 220 
Pudding, Dutch, 219 
Pudding, Grandmother's, 219 
Salad, 165 
Sauce, 235 
Slump,, 225 
Souffl6, 286 
Tart, English, 818 
Tapioca, 224 
Apples, Baked, 284 

Panned Baked. 285 
Artichokes k la Duxelle, 100 
Jerusalem, 101 
Jenisalem k la Vinai- 
grette, 102 
Jerusalem, with Brown 

Sauce, 101 
Jerusalem, with Cream 

Sauce, 101 
With Sauce Vinai- 
grette, 100 
Asparagus, 102 

Boiled, 102 

Breaded, 105 

in a Bread-Boat, 104 

Salad, 165 

Stewed, 108 

Tips, 108 

To Can, M9 



Baked Apples, 234 

Panned, 885 
Beans, 64 
Beans with Tonato Sauce, 

66 
Cauliflower, 58 



817 



Baked Cranberries, 839 
Lima Beans, 105 
Macaroni, 59 
Mushrooms, 149 
Potatoes, 02 
Salsify, 140 
Baking Powder Biscuit, 181 
Batter Pudding, 218 
Banana Cannelon, 48 

Cake Pudding, 238 
Salad, 166 
Souffle, 237 
Bananas, 236 

Baked, 286 
Fried, 237 
Frozen, 229 
Stewed, 237 
Bean Croquettes, 66 
Lima Roast, 58 
Loaf with Rice, 65 
Stew with Dumplings, 66 
Beans, Baked. 64 

Baked, with Tomato 

Sauce. 66 
Kidney, Curry of, 58 
Lima, Baked, 106 
Lima, Stewed Dried, 68 
Lima, Stewed Green, 106 
Red, Spanish Style, 67 
String, 106 

Strinff, with Cream, 106 
Beauregard Eggs, 68 
Beets, 107 

Pickled, 108 
Stewed. 107 
To Boil, 107 
To Can, 210 
Bird's Nest Pudding, 218 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 181 
Bisque Ice Cream, 227 
Black Bean Soup, 21 
Bobotee Salad, 157 

Sandwiches, 190 
Boiled Sweet Potatoes, 96 
Bouillon, Mock Clam, 16 

Tomato, 16 
Boulettes PoUtoes, 91 
Breads, 176 

Baking Powder Biscuit, 181 

Com Loaf, 179 

Date Gems, 183 

Date Tarts, 188 

Fruit Gems, 188 

Gluten, 178 

Grakam, 179 



Digitized by 



Google 



318 



MRS. RORfiR S VEGETABLE COOKERY 



Breads, Gnham Wafers, 186 

Lady Baltimore Cake, 186 
Molanes Ginger Cake, 187 
Mush Bread, 188 
Nut Meringues, 187 
Oatmeal Wafers, 186 
Old-Time Whigs, 186 
Parker House Rolls, 180 
Pop Overs, 184 
Quick, 181 
Rye, 180 

Scotch Oat Cake, 184 
Sour Milk Ginger Cookies, 

187 
Sponse Cake, 186 
Tea Gems, 182 
White, 177 

White, with Dry Yeast, 178 
Whole Wheat. 176 
Whole Wheat Gems, 188 
Whole Wheat, Unleavened, 

181 
With Dry Yeast, 177 
Yeasts, 176 
Home-made Yeast, 170 

Breaded Asparagus, 106 

Broiled Tomatoes. 143 

Brown Betty, 226 

Bread and Butter Sand- 
wiches. 189 
Bread and Nut Sand- 
wiches. 189 
Sauce, 84 

Browned Sweet Potatoes, 97 

Brunswick Stew, 87 

Brussels Sprouts, 116 

Butter, Peanut, 41 

Butters. Fruit, 201 



Canning tnd Preservlnr. 106 

To Can Large Fruits Without 

Sugar, 197 
To Can Small Fruits Without 

Sugar, 196 
To Can Small Fruits With 

Sugar, 197 
To Can Peaches With Sugar, 

198 
To Can Pears, 198 
To Can Plums With Sugar, 198 
To Can Vegetables, 209 

Asparagus, 209 

Beets. 210 

Com, 211 

Peas, 211 

Stewed Tomatoes, 211 

String Beans. felO 

Tomatoes Whole, 212 
Conserved Fruits, 805 



Canning and Preserving 

Cherries, Candied or Con- 
served, 206 
Fruit Honey, 208 
Lemon Peel, 206 
Mock Figs, 206 
Orange Peel, 206 
Pear Chips, 208 
Pear Honey, 208 
Prawlings, 207 
Tomato Honey, 208 
Fruit Batters, 201 

Apple, 202 
Tomato, 208 
Fmit Juices, 204 

Grape Juice, 204 
Jelly Making, 199 

Crab- Apple Jelly, 199 
Red Currant Jelly, 200 
Marmalades or Jams, 203 
Barberry Jam, 208 
Blackberry Jam. 204 
Orange Marmalade, 208 
Preserving, 201 
Peaches, 201 
Strawberries, 201 
Yellow Gages, 201 
Cabbage, 108 

k la Flamande, 118 

Boiled, 109 

Charleston, 110 

Cold Slaw, 111 

German Sour, 111 

HonjB^roise, 113 

Ladies', 109 

Red, Dutch Fashion, 118 

Russian Style, 110 

Salad, 168 

Salad in a Cabbage-Cap, 

169 
Sauerkraut, 118 
Scalloped, 110 
Sour Cream Slaw, 112 
Stuffed, 62 
Turkish, 61 
Cake, Lady Baltimore, 186 
Molasses Ginger, 187 
Sponge, 186 
Cannelon, Banana. 43 
Fruit, 223 
Nut, 48 
CanUloupes, 288 

Cocktail, 12 
Salad, 169 
Caramel Ice Cream, 226 
Caramel Sauce, 281 
Cardinal Soup, 80 
Carrot Jam. 119 

Salad, 160 
Carrots. 118 

Glac^d. 119 
Stewed, 119 
Catsup, Mushroom, 168 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



319 



Cauliflower, 115 

au Gratin, 115 
Baked, 63 

Hungarian Fashion, 116 
Salad, 159 
Celery, 120 

and Tomato Soup, 20 
au Jus, 121 

How to Serve Raw, 120 
Salad, 160 
Stewed, 120 
To Fringe, 120 
Ceylon Curry of Tomatoes, 145 
Dressing, 171 
Tomato Salad, 167 
Cheese and Egg Sandwiches, 192 
Nut, 47 
Omelet, 79 
Sandwiches, 192 
Soup, Cream of, 32 
Cherry Salad, 157 
Chicory Salad, 160 
Chicken Pie, Vegetable, 49 
Chiffonade Salad, 161 
Chili Con-Carne, Mock, 67 
Chinese Salad, 168 
Chips, Pear, 208 
Chisula, 49 

Chocolate Surprise, 247 
Chowder, Com, 34 

Mock Cam, 36 
Potato, 36 
Tomato, 86 
Chowders, 34 
Clover Sandwiches, 195 
Club Sandwiches, 190 
Cocktail, Cantaloupe, 12 
Grape Fruit, 10 
Lemon, 11 
Orange, 10 
Pepper, 12 
Strawberry, 10 
Tomato, 13 ' 
Cocoanut Milk, 245 
Cold Slaw. Ill 
Collards, 116 
Combination Salad, 161 
Conserved Fruits, 205 
Consomm6 a la Royal, 17 

With Almond Balls, 16 
With German Farina 
Blocks, 16 
Com, 121 

k la Rorer, 122 

Breakfast Gems, 125 

Dried, No. 1, 125 

Dried, No. 2, 126 

Escalloped, 123 

Fritters, 122 

Green, Boiled in the Husk, 

121 
Griddle Cakes, 186 
Loaf, 179 



Cora, Louisiana, 124 
Oysters, 128 
Plain Boiled, 121 
Pudding, 123 
Stewed, 122 

Stewed in Tomatoes, 124 
To Can, 211 
To Cook Dried, 126 
To Salt, 126 
Crab-Apple Jelly, 199 
Cranberry Jelly, 288 
Sauce, 239 
Cranberries, Baked, 239 
Cream of Tomato Sauce, 82 
Cream Dressing, 171 
Creamed Mushrooms, 149 

Spinach, 140 
Croquettes, Bean, 55 
Nut, 48 
Potato, 91 
Rice, 88 
Spaghetti, 60 
Sweet Potato, '9T 
Cucumber Salad, Plain, 158 
Cucumbers, 127 

Fried, 127 
Stuffed, 61 

With Cream Sauce, 127 
With Sauce Holland- 
aise 127 
Cup Baked Tomatoes, 143 
Custard, Maple, 217 
Fungi, 161 
Raspberry, 11 
Curried Eggs. 68 
Curry of Kidney Beans, 58 
Custard, Frozen, 228 



Dainty Odd Dishes, 246 

Date Gems, 183 

and Fig Sandwiches, 191 
Sandwiches, 190 
Tarts, 188 
Dates, Stuffed, 239 
Desserts, 218 

Apple Biscuit Pudding, 213 
Apple Dowdy, 224 
Apple Dumpling, 220 
Apple Slump, 225 
Apple Tapioca. 224 
Apple Tart, English, 213 
Baked Indian Pudding, 219 
Batter Pudding, 218 
Bird's Nest Pudding, 218 
Bisque Ice Cream, 227 
Brown Betty, 226 
Caramel Ice Cream, 226 
Dried Fruit Jelly, 226 
Frozen Bananas, 229 
Custard, 228 
Strawbmic8» 280 



Digitized by 



Google 



320 



MRS. RORERS VEGETABLE COOKERY 



Desserts 


Eggs, Hungarian Style, 66 


Fruit CanneloB, 228 


TeflFerson, 69 
Mexicana, 64 


Gelatin Pndding, 222 
Maple Cup GoitMd. 217 


Omelets, 77 


Marguerites, 216 
Miriltons, 217 


Mexican, 79 


Plain, 77 


Mock Mince Pie, 214 


Quaker, 79 
Spanish, 78 
With Asparagus 


Orange Sberlict, 228 
Tapioca, 224 


Pic Crust, 216 


Tips, 78 
With Fine Herbs, 80 


Poor Man's Tartlets, 216 


'^""•*aSSa.tg'i?."AVle. 


With Fresh Toma- 


toes, 78 


219 


With Peas, 78 


Plum, 216 


Poached on Fried Toma- 


Rice, Old-fashioned, 


toes, 71 


226 


Scrambled, 71 


Rice Dumplings, 220 


Scrambled With Lettuce, 7% 


Roly-Poly, Nut, 221 


Shirred, 68 


Sherbets, 228 


To Hard-boil, 68 


Strawberry Shortcake, 222 


To Steam, 64 


Thanksgiving Pie, 214 
Water Jelly, 221 


Virginia, 67 
Eggnog, Nnt, 246 


Division of Our Common Vege> 


White. 246 


tables, 38 


Yellow, «46 


Dowdy, Apple, 224 
Dried Com, No. 1. 126 


Eggplant, 127 ^ 


Baked, 128 


No. 2, 126 


Boiled, 128 


Dried Fnrits, To Cook, 248 


Fried, 128 


Fruit Jelly, 226 


EscaUoped Com, 128 


Duck, Mock, 46 


Rice, 89 


DumpUngs, Aj^e,^«0 


Tomatoes 144 




Palfy Butter, 289 


Egf SaUul, 161 


Farmer's Dfessiog, 170 


and Beet Salad, 162 


Sandwiches, 169 


Sandwiches, 191 


Figs, Fresh, To Serve, 289 


Eggs, 68 


Mock, 206 


i rAurorc, 75 


Stewed, 240 


i la Bonne Femme, 74 


Stuffed, 289 


k la Dauphin, 70 


Fish, Mock, 46 


k la Finnois, 78 


Mock, Phinked, 46 


& la Gretna, 73 


Flageolets, 56 


& la Hyde, 76 


Flavorings for Sweet Dishes, 174 


i la Martin. 65 


Vanilla Extract, 174 


a la Paysanne, 74 
& la P<^onai8e, 76 


Sugar, 174 
French Artichofccs, 99 


a la Suisse, 70 


Dressing, 169 


a la Suzanne, 66 


Fried Potatoes. 94 


i ia Tripe, 70 

i la Vakncieaae, 78 


Fried Sweet PoUtoes, 98 


Fried Bananas, 287 


au Gratin, 69 


Cueumhers, 127 


au Miixnr, 64 


Potatoes, German, 96 


Beauregard, 68 


Tomatoes, 146 


Cheese Omelet, 79 


Frozen Bananas, 229 


Coqnelicot, 65 


Custard, 228 


Creole, 67 


Stcawberries, 280 


Curried, M 


Fruit Cannelon. 228 


en Ptaade, tS 


Gems, 188 


HMTto Itech, 68 


Juices, 204 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



321 



Fruit Sandwiches, 191 

Sauce, 282 
Fruits, 233 

Apple, The, 284 
Apples, Baked, 284 

Panned Baked, 235 
Apple Sauce, 285 
Souffle, 235 
Bananas, 236 

Baked, 236 
Fried, 237 
Stewed, 237 
Banana Cake Pudding, 238 

Souffle, 237 
Cantaloupes, 238 
Conserved, 205 
Cranberry Jelly, 238 
Sauce, 289 
Cranberries, Baked, 239 
Dates, Stuffed, 239 
Figs, Fresh, to Serve, 239 

Stewed, 240 
Gooseberry Sauce, 241 
Grape Fruit, 240 
How to Cook and Serve, 233 
Lillian Russell, 238 
Oranges, 241 

Peaches, Turkish Fashion, 286 
Pineapples, 241 
Prunes, 243 
Prune Jelly, 244 

Souffle, 244 
Rhubarb, Stewed, 243 
To Cook Dried, 248 
To Dry, 248 
Watermelon, 249 



Garnishes, 173 

Gelatin Pudding, 222 
Gems, Corn Breakfast, 126 
Date, 183 
Fruit, 188 
Tea, 182 

Whole Wheat, 182 
German Fried Potatoes, 95 
Ginger Cake, Molasses, 187 

Cookies, Sour Milk, 187 
Globe or French Artichokes, 99 
Gluten Bread, 178 
Goose, Mock, 45 
Gooseberry Sauce, 241 
Graham Bread, 179 

Wafers, 185 
Grape Fruit, 240 

Cocktail, 10 
Salad, 162 
Green or Succulent Group of Vege- 
tables, 99 
Artichokes A la Duxelle, 100 
Globe or French, 99 



Green or Succulent Group of Vege- 
tables 
Artichokes, Jerusalem, 101 

Jerusalem, a la Vinai- 
grette, 102 
Jerusalem, with Brown 

Sauce, 101 
Jerusalem, with Cream 

Sauce, 101 
With Sauce Vinai- 
grette, 100 
Asparagus, 102 

Boiled, 102 

Breaded, 105 

In a Bread-Boat, 

104 
Stewed, 108 
Tips, 103 
Beans, 106 

Lima, Baked, 106 
Lima, Green, Stewed, 

106 
String, 106 

With Cream, 
106 
Beets, 107 

a la Rorer, 108 
Pickled, 108 
Stewed, 107 
Brussels Sprouts, 116 
Cabbage, 108 

a la Flamande, 112 
Boiled, 109 
Charleston, 110 
. German Sour, 111 
Hon^oise, 118 
Ladies', 109 
Red, Dutch Fashion, 

113 
Russian Style, 110 
Scalloped, 110 
Sauerkraut, To Cook. 

114 
Sauerkraut, To Make, 

113 
Sour Cream Slaw, 112 
Cauliflower, 115 

au Gratin, 115 
Hun^rian Fash- 
^ ^ ion, 116 

Carrot Jam, 119 
Carrots, 118" 

Glaced, 119 
Stewed, 119 
Celery, 120 

au Jus, 121 

How to Serve Raw, 120 
Stewed, 120 
To Fringe, 120 
Collards, 116 
Corn, 121 

& la Rarer, 128^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



322 



MRS. RORER's vegetable COOKERY 



Green or Succulent Group of Vege- 
tables 
Corn, Breakfast Gems, 125 
Plain Boiled, 121 
Dried, No. 1, 126 
No. 2, 126 
To Cook, 126 
Escalloped, 128 
Fritters, 122 
Griddle Cakes, 126 
Green, Boiled in the 

Husk, 121 
Louisiana, 124 
Oysters, 123 
Pudding, 128 
Stewed, 122 

Stewed in Tomatoes, 124 
To Salt, 126 
Salted, to Cook, 126 
Cucumbers, 127 

Fried, 127 

With Cream Sauce, 

127 
With Sauce Hol- 
lan<laiae, 127 
Eggplant, 127 

Baked, 128 
Boiled, 128 
Fried, 428 
Ground-Cherry, 146 
Horseradish, 129 
Kale, 117 

as Greens, 117 
Kohl-Rabi, 118 
Morels, 161 
Morchella, 161 
Mushrooms, 147 

Baked, 149 
Broiled, 149 
Bell, 160 
Catsup, 162 
Creamed, 149 
In a Chafing 
Dish, 160 
Oyster, 161 
Stewed, 149 
To Can, 168 
To Dry, 168 
Okra, 129 

Fricassee of, with Corn, 

180 
Stewed, 129 
Succotash, 181 
With Rice, 180 
With Tomatoes, 180 
Onions, 181 ^ 

au Supreme, 188 
Boiled, 132 
Glac6. 138 
Spanish, Boiled, 132 
Spanish, with Brown 
Sauce, 182 



Green or Succulent Group of Vege- 
tables . 
Peas, Green, 134 

English Fashion, 186 
To Boil, 134 
With Cream Sauce, 186 
Young Green, To Dry, 

136 
In Turnip Cups, 186 
Sugar, 136 
Peppers, 136 ^ 

Stewed, 138 
Stuffed, 187 
Sweet, Creole Fash- 
ion, 187 
Puff Balls. 162 
Radish, 138 

To Serve Raw, 189 
Salsify, 139 

Baked, 140 
Stewed, 189 
Savoy, 114 
Spinach, 140 

Boiled as Greens, 140 
Creamed, 140 
For Garnishing, 141 
Pur6c of, 141 
Stachys, 141 
Succotash, 123 
Tomatoes, 142 

Broiled, 148 
Ceylon Curry of, 145 
Cup Baked, 143 
Escalloped, 144 
French Fashion, 146 
Fried. 146 
Luncheon, 142 
On the Half Shell, 

148 
Pod, 146 
Stuffed, 144 
Stuffed with Corn, 

146 
To Serve Raw, 142 
Turnips, 146 

With Cream Sauce, 
147 
Green Pea Salad, 166 
Green Peas, 134 

To Boil, 134 
With Cream Sauce, 
136 
Grilled Potatoes, 96 
Grilled Sweet Potatoes, 97 
Grossmutter Soup, 24 
Ground-Cherry, 146 



Ham, Mock, 47 
Hard Sauce, 231 
Hash, Mock Meat, 44 
Herbs, How to Dry, 178 



Digitized by 



Google 



tNOBX 



323 



Home-made Yeast, 176 
Honey, Fruit, 208 
* Pear, 208 
Tomato, 208 
Honolulu Salad, 168 

Sandwiches, 192 
Horseradish, 129 

Sauce, 86 



Ice CfMun, Bisque, 227 

Caramel, 226 
Indian Pudding, Baked, 219 
Salad, 168 
Soup, 18 
In the Place of Meat, 89 
Banana Cannelon, 43 
Bean Croquettes, 56 

Lima, Roast, 68 
Loaf with Rice, 55 
Stew with Dumplings, 56 
Beans, Baked, 64 

With Tomato 
^ Sauce, 65 

Curry of Kidney, 68 
Lima, Stewed, Dried, 68 
Red, Spanish Style, 67 
Cabbage, Stuffed, 62 
Turkish, 61 
Cauliflower, Baked, 63 
Chisula, 49 

Cucumbers, Stuffed, 61 
Fl&geolets, 66 
Jambola}ra, 60 
Macaroni, Baked, 69 
Mock Chili Con-Came, 67 
Duck, 46 
Fish, 46 

Planked, 46 
Goose, 46 
Ham, 47 
Meat Hash, 44 
Oysters, 69 
Tenderloin Steak, 44 
Turkey, 46 
Veal Roast, 43 
Nut Cannelon, 43 
Cheese, 47 
Croquettes, 48 
Onions, Stuffed, 54 
Peanut Butter, 41 
Pecan Sausages, 42 
Pine Nut Steaks, 42 
Potato Roll, 60 
Rice ii TAnglaise, 41 
& riUlienne, 41 
Baked, 40 
Escalloped, 89 
Farmers', 40 
Risotto, 89 



In the Place of Meat 

Spaghetti a la Caruso, 62 
a ritalienne. 60 
a la Milanaise, 61 
Croquettes, 60 
_ Timbales, 61 
Vegetable Chicken Pie, 49 
_ _ ^ Meat Pie, 48 

Irish Soup, 17 
Italian Dressinc:, 169 



Jambolayt, 60 

Jam, Barberry, 203 
Blackberry, 204 
Sandwiches, 193 



apanese Salad, 164 
elly-Making, 199 
elly. Cranberry, 238 



Vinai- 



„ 238 

Dried Fruit, 226 
Prune, 244 
Red Currant, 200 
Sauce, 231 
Water, 221 
Jerusalem Artich<Acs, 101 
Jerusalem Artichokes k la 

grette, 102 
JeruMlem Artichokes with Brown 

Sauce, 101 
Jerusalem Artichokes With Cream 

Sauce, 101 
Juhcnnc Soup, 16 



Kale, 117 

As Greens, 117 
To Boil, 117 
K(A1-Rabi, 118 

To Boil, 118 



Lady Baltimore Cake, 186 

Ladies' Luncheon Salad, 164 

Lemon Cocktail, 11 

Lettuce Sandwiches, 193 

and Walnut Sandwiches, 
193 

Lima Beans, Baked, 106 
Roast, 68 
Stewed Dried, 68 
Stewed Green, 106 

Lyonnaise PoUtoes, 95 



Macaroni, Baked, 59 
Macedoinc Salad, 166 
Maple Cup Custard, 217 
Marguerites, 816 



Digitized by 



Google 



324 



MRS. RORER'S vegetable COOKERY 



Marmalade, Orange, 208 
Marmalades or Jams, 208 
Mashed PoUtoes, 01 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 169 

White. 170 
Meat Pie, Vegetable, 48 
Menus, 249-815 

Autumn, 279-208 

Dinner, 814 
Festival Supper, 315 
Luncheon, 812, 813 
Suppers, 810 
Christmas Dmner, 815 
Evening Affairs, 815 
Few Spring Company Suppers, 

309 
Small Evening Affairs, 811 
Spring Bills of Fare, 250-263 
Company Dinner, 818 
Company Luncheon, 812 
Luncheon, 818 
Summer, 264-278 

Dinner, 813 
Luncheon, 812 
Suppers, 309 
Thanksgiving Dinner, 814 
Winter, 294-308 

Dinner, 814 
Luncheon, 818 
Meringues. Nut, 187 
Mexican Bean Soup, 81 

Omelet, 79 
Mint Sandwiches, 198 
Miriltons, 217 
Mock Chicken Salad, 160 
Clam Bouillon, 16 
Duck, 45 
Figs, 206 
Fish, 46 

Fish, Planked, 48 
Fish Salad, 168 
Goose, 45 
Ham, 47 
Meat Hash, 44 
Meat Soup, 28 
Mince Pie, 214 
Oysters, 59 
Oyster Soup, 81 
Tenderloin Steak, 44 
Turkey, 46 
Veal Roast, 48 
Molasses Ginger Cake, 187 
Morchella, 151 
Morels, 161 
Mush Bread, 188 
Mushroom Bell, Under a, 160 
Sauce, Canned, 84 
Sauce, Fresh, 84 
Catsup, 152 
Soup, Cream of, 81 
Mu8hro<Mii8» 147 

Baked, 149 
Creamed, 149 



Mushrooms in a Chafing Dish« 150 
"Oyster," 161 
Stewed, 149 
To Can, 158 
To Dry, 158 



NflJtartium Sandwiciies, 195 

Nut Cannelon, 48 
Cheese, 47 
Croquettes, 48 
Menngues, 187 
Milks and Nut Creams, 845 
Roly-PoIy, 221 
Salad, 165 
Sandwiches, 198 



Oat Cake, Scotch, 184 
Oatmeal Soup. Cream of, 88 

Wafers, 185 
Odd Dishes, 246, 247 

Chocolate Surprise, 247 
Eggnog, White, 246 
Yellow, 246 
Pinoche, 246 
Okra, 129 

Fricassee of, with Corn, 180 
Stewed, 129 
Succotash, 181 
With Rice, 180 
With Tomatoes, 180 
Old-Time Whigs, 186 
Olive Salad, 165 
Omelets, 77 
Omelet, A Mexican, 79 
Cheese, 79 
Plain, 77 
Quaker, 79 
Spanish, 78 

With Asparagus Tips, 78 
With Fine Herbs, 80 
With Fresh Tomatoes, 78 
With Peas, 78 
Onions, 131 

au Supreme, 188 
Boiled, 182 
Glac6, 133 
Spanish, Boiled, 138 
Spanish, with Brown 

Sauce, 188 
Stuffed. 54 
Orange Cocktail, 10 

Marmalade, 208 
Sauce, 281 
Sherbet, 228 
Tapioco, 224 
Oranges, 241 

"Oyster" Mushrooms, 161 
Oysters, Com. 128 
Mock, 69 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



325 



Palestine Soup, 27 

Parker House Rolls, 180 
Pea and Tomato Soup, 20 
Peas, English Fashion, 135 
Green, to Boil, 134 
Green, with Cream Sauce, 135 
in Turnip Cups, 185 
Porridge, 23 
Sugar, 135 

Young Green, To Dry, 186 
To Can, 211 
Peaches, To Can with Sugar, 198 

Turkish Fashion, 286 
Peanut Butter, 41 

Sandwiches, 194 
Soup, Cream of, 83 
Pecan Sausages, 42 
Pear Chips, 208 
Honey, 208 
Pears, To Can, 198 
Pepper Cocktoil, 12 
Peppers, 186 

Stewed, 138 

Sweet, Creole Fashion, 137 
Stuffed, 187 
Pie Crust, 215 

Mock Mince, 214 
Thanksgiving, 214 
Vegetable Chicken, 49 
Vegetable Meat, 48 
Pineapples, 241 
Pine ^fut Steaks, 42 
Pinoche, 246 
Planked Mock Fish, 46 
Plants Used as Flavorings, 172 
Plums, To Can with Sugar, 198 
Poached Eggs on Fried Tomatoes, 

71 
Pod Tomato, 146 
Portuguese Soup, 19 
Pop Overs, 184 
Potato Chowder, 35 
Croquettes, 91 
Puff, 92 
Roll, 50 

Salad, No. 1, 166 
No. 2, 166 
Sweet, 96 
Potatoes, 89 

Baked, 92 

Boiled in Their Jackets, 

90 
Boiled, Plain, 90 
BouletteSj 91 
en Surprise, 93 
French Fried, 94 
German Fried, 95 
Gnlled, 96 
Lvonnaise, 95 
Mashed, 91 
O'Brien, 98 
Provencal, 94 



^Potatoes, Steamed, 9S 
Stuffed. 93 
Swelled, 94 
Prawlings, 207 
Preserving, 201 
Prune Jelly, 244 

Souffle. 244 
Prunes, 248 

Pudding, Apple Biscuit, 218 
Apple, Dutch, 219 
Banana Cake, 288 
Batter, 218 
Bird's Nest, 218 
Gelatin, 222 
Indian, Baked, 219 
Plum, 215 

Rice, Old-fashioned, 226 
Pudding Sauces, 231 

Caramel, 231 
Fairy Butter, 232 
Fruit, 282 
Hard, 281 
Jelly, 281 
Orange, 231 
Sabayon, 282 
Puff Balls, 152 
Puff, Sweet Potato, 97 
Puree of Dried Beans, 20 
Dried Peas, 21 
Spinach, 141 
Tomato, 19 
VegeUbles, 28 



Quick Breads, 181 

Quaker Omelet, 79 



Radish, 138 

Radishes, To Serve Raw, 189 

Raspberry Cup, 11 

Red Beans, Spanish Style, 57 

Red Cabbage, Dutch Fashion, 118 

Rhubarb, Stewed, 242 

Rice, 86 

a I'Anglaise, 41 

Baked, 40 

Composition of Boiled, 87 

Composition of Dry, 87 

Croquettes, 88 

Dumplings, 220 

Escafloped, 39 

Farmers', 40 

Pudding, Old-fashioned, 226 

To Boil, 87 
Roll, Potato, 50 
Rolls, Colonial, 190 

Parker House, 180 
Rolled Nut Sandwiches, 198 
Roly-Poly, Nut, 221 
Rye Bread, 180 



Digitized by 



Google 



MRS. RORKR'S vegetable COOKERY 



326 

SsfO 8o«p, 18 

Salad, Allintor Pear, 165 

Aspaiagus, 166 

Banana, 166 

Bobotee, 167 

Cabbace, 168 

Cabbage in a Cabbage-Cup, 

160 
Cantaloupe, 169 
Carrot, 160 
Cauliflower, 169 
Celery. 160 
Cherry, 167 
Chicory, 160 
Chiffonade, 161 
Chinese, 168 
Combination, 161 
Cucumber, Plain, 168 
Egg, 161 

Egg and Beet, 102 
Grape Fruit, 162 
Green Pea, 165 
Honolulu, 163 
Indian, 168 
In Apple Cups, 166 

Ladies' Luncheon, 164 
Maoedoine, 166 
Mock Chicken, 160 
Mock Fish, 162 
Nice Supper, 168 
Nut, 166 
OUve, 166 
Potato, No. 1, 166 
No. 2, 166 
Spanish, 167 
Spring, 167 
String Bean, 166 
StuflFed Beet, 166 
Tomato, 166 
Tomato, Ceylon, 167 
Waldorf. 168 
SaUd Dressings, 169 

Ceylon, 171 
Cream, 171 
Farmer's, 170 
French, 169 
Italian, 169 
Mayonnaise, 169 

White, 170 
Sidney Smith's, 171 
Salad Plants, 164 
Salads, 154 
Salsify, 139 

Baked, 140 
Stewed, 139 
Sandwiches, 189 

Bobotte, 190 
Brown Bread and 

Butter, 189 

Brown Bread and 

Nuts, 189 



Sandwiches, Cheese, 198 

Cheese and Egg, 198 
Clover, 196 
Club, 190 

Colonial Rolls, 190 
Date, 190 
Date and Fig, 191 
Egg, 191 

Extraordinary, 195 
Farmer's, 189 
Fruit, 191 
Honolulu, 192 
Jam, 193 
Lettuce, 198 
Lettuce and Walnut, 193 
Mint, 193 
Nasturtium, 195 
Nut, 193 
Nut, RoUed, 198 
Peanut, 194 
Swiss Cheese, 192 
Tomato, 194 
Windsor, 194 
Vegetable Rolls, 194 
Sauces, 81 

Apple, 286 

Bechamel, 82 

Brown, 84 

Cranberry, 239 

Cream, 81 

Drawn Butter. English, 88 

Plain, 82 
Gooseberry, 241 
Hollandaise, No. 1, 83 
No. 2, 88 
Horseradish, 85 
Mushroom, Canned, 84 
Mushroom, Fresh, 84 
Spanish Pepper, 86 
Tomato, 82 

Cream of, 88 
Vinaigrette, 85 
White, 81 
Sauces, Pudding, 231 _ 

Fairy Butter, 2SS 
Fruit, 282 
Hard, 231 
Jelly, 231 
Orange, 281 
Sabayon, 282 
Sausages, Pecan, 42 
Savoy, 114 

Scalloped Cabbage, 110 
Scotch Oat Cake, 184 
Scrambled Eggs, 71 

With Lettuce^ 78 
Sherbets, 228 
Shirred Eggs, 63 
Shortcake, Strawberry. 222 
Sidney Smith's Dressing, 171 
Slump. Apple, 226 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



327 



Souffle, Apple, S85 
Banana, 287 
Prune, 244 
Soups, 14 

Barley, 18 
Bean, Black, 21 

Mexican, 21 
Brunswick Stew, 87 
Celery and Tomato, 20 
Chowders, 84 

Com, 84 
Mock Clam, 86 
Potato, 86 
Tomato, 86 
Con8omm6 k la Royal, 17 

With Almond Balls, 16 
With German Farina 
Blocks, 16 
Grossmutter, 24 
Irish, 17 
Indian, 18 

iulienne, 15 
lock Clam Bouillon, 16 
Meat, 22 
Pea and Tomato, 20 
Peas Porridge, 23 
Portuguese, 19 
Pur^e of Dried Beans, 20 
Peas, 21 
Lentils, 21 
Tomato, 19 
Vegetables, 22 
Sago, 18 
Stock, 14 

Tomato Bouillon, 16 
Vegetable, 21 
Soups, with Milk, 24 

i la Mousquetaire, 84 
i la Rorer, 82 
Cardinal, 30 
Cr6cy, 26 

Cream of Asparagus, 24 
Celery, 29 
Cheese, 82 
Com, 25 
Mushroom, 31 
Oatmeal, 88 
Pea, Canned, 26 
Pea, Green, 25 
Peanut, 83 
Potato, 27 
Tomato, 28 
Emerald. 28 
Farmers', 29 
Mock Oyster, 81 
Palestine, 27 
Soubise, 81 
Sour Milk Ginger Cookies, 187 
Spaghetti k la Camso, 62 
4 ritalienne, 60 
k la Milanaise, 61 
Croquettes, 60 
Timbales, 61 



Spanish Omelet, 78.^ ^ ^^^ 

Onions, Boiled, 182 ^ 
Onions, with Brown Sauce, 

182 
Pepper Sauce, 86 
SaUd, 167 
Spinach, 140 ^ ^ 

Boiled as Greens, 140 
Creamed, 140 
For Garnishing, 141 
Pur6e of, 141 
Sponge Cake. 185 
Spring Salad, 157 
Sta<!hys, 141 

Starchy Vegetables, Group of, 86 
Potatoes, 89 

Baked. 92 
Boiled in Their 

Jackets, 90 
Boiled, Plun, 90 
Boulettes, 91 
en Surprise, 98 
French Fried, 94 
German Fried, 96 
Grilled, 96 
Lyonnaise, 95 
Mashed, 91 
O'Brien, 93 
Pr6vencal, 94 
Steamed, 98 
Stuffed. 92 
Swelled, 94 
Croquettes, 91 
Puff, 92 

R>c«» 86 « ., ^ «« 

Composition of Boiled, 87 
Composition of Dry, 87 
Croquettes, 88 
To Boil, 87 
Sweet Potato, 96 ^ , 

Boiled, 96 
Browned, 97 
Croquettes, 97 
French Fned, 98 
Grilled. 97 
Panned in the 

Oven, 97 
Puff, 97 
Steaks, Pine Nut, 42 
Stew, Bean, with Dumplings, 66 

Bmnswick, 87 
Stewed Asparagus, 108 
Bananas, 287 
Com in Tomatoes, 184 
Dried Lima Beans, 68 
Figs, 240 
Mushrooms, 149 
Rhubarb, 242 
Tomatoes, To Can, 211 
Stock for Soup, 14 
Strawberry Cocktail. 10 

Shortcake, 222 



Digitized by 



Google 



328 



MRS. RORER's vegetable COOKERY 



Stxawberricfl, Frozen, 280 

To Prwenrc, 201 
String Bean Salad. 156 

Beans, To Can, 210 
Stuffed Beet Salad, 166 
Cabbage, 62 
Cuctunbers, 61 
Dates, 289 
Figs, 289 
Onions, 64 
Potatoes, 92 
Succotash, 123 

Okra, 181 
Supper Salad, A Nice, 168 
Surprise, Chocolate, 247 
Sweet Potato, 96 

Boiled, 96 
Browned, 97 
Croquettes, 97 
French Fried, 98 
Grilled. 97 
Pannea in the 

Oven, 97 
Puff, 97 
Swelled Potatoes, 94 
Swisa Cheese Sandwiches, 192 



TaploCAi Apple* 224 

Orange, 224 
Tarts, Date, 188 
Tartlets, Poor Man's, 216 
Tea Gems, 182 
Tenderloin Steak, Mock, 44 
Thanksgiving Pie, 214 
Timbales, Spaghetti, 61 
Ta Can Vegetables, 209 
To Dry Fruits, 243 
Tomato Butter, 202 
Bouillon, 16 
Cocktail, 13 
Chowder, 86 
Honey, 208 
Salad, 166 
Sandwiches, 194 
Sauce, 82 
Tomatoes, 142 

Broiled, 143 
Ceylon Curry of, 146 
Cup Baked, 143 
en Surprise, 166 
Escalloped, 144 
French Fashion, 146 
Fried, 146 



Tomatoes, Luncheon, 142 

On the Half Shell, 143 
Stuffed, 144 

Stuffed, with Corn, 145 
Whole, TjO Can, 212 
To Serve Raw, 142 

Turnips, 146 

With Cream Sauce, 147 

Turkey, Mock, 46 

Turkish Cabbage, 61 



Under a Mnshroom Bell, 150 

Unleavened Whole Wheat Bread, 
181 



Vanille Extract, 174 

Sugar, 174 
Veal Roast, Mock, 43 
Vegetable Chicken Pie, 49 
Meat Pie, 48 
Sandwich Rolls, 194 
Soup, 21 
Vegetables, To Can, 209 



Wafers, Graham» 185 

Oatmeal, 186 

Waldorf Salad, 168 

Watermelon, 242 

Water Telly, 221 

White Bread, 177 

With Dry Yeast, 178 

White or Cream Sauce, 81 

Whole Wheat Bread. 176 
Gems, 182 
Unleavened Bread, 
181 

Windsor Sandwiches, 194 



Yeast, Home-made, 176 

Yeasts, 175 

Yellow Eggnog, 246 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOME OTHER BOOKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

Arnold and Company 



Mrs. R.orer's 
NCW Cook Book 

This book marks the highest point of development in 
Domestic Science, and represents the results of hard work 
of the best years of Mrs. Rorer's life. 

It is not a mere recipe book, but tells of those things 
one needs to know concerning cooking, living, health and 
best way of housekeeping. At the same time, each 
department has an abundance of new and good recipes, 
given in Mrs. Rorer's clear and lucid style, so that no one 
can possibly make mistakes. 

A nuignificent department on vegetables will make the 
book welcome to the growing cult of vegetarians. The 
scientific division of the vegetables into groups, giving 
their constituents, will prove of great value to invalids 
afflicted with diabetes, kidney disease, etc. 

In all, this book is the most valuable contribution to 
Domestic Science that has yet been published, placing it 
&r above the level of the ordinary cook book. 

No household can afford to be without it, if good 
living and correct living are to be desired. 

Large i2mo., 735 pages, profusely illustrated; bound 
in washable cloth, price II2.00 ; postage 20 cents 



Digitized by 



Google 



Mrs. Rorer^s 
Philadelphia Cook Book 

A Manual of Home Economies. By Mrs. S. T. 
RoRER, author of Canning and Preserving, Hot 
Weather Dishes, etc. 

This is the standard book of Mrs. Rorer's that has been 
before the public for a number of years. It has no con- 
nection with Mis. Rorer's New Cook Book. Each book 
is independent of the other, and the possession of one 
forms no reason for doing without the other. 

The Philadelphia Cook Book is full of good things, 
and, like all of Mis. Rorer's works, is eminently practical. 
It is a standard of excellence, in that it is full of the 
brightest things in cookery; the recipes are absolutely 
reliable, and the general instructions to housekeepers of 
the most helpful and necessary character. 

Nearly all cook books assume some knowledge and 
experience on the part of those who use them, but Mrs. 
Rorer makes her explanations so clear, and gives such 
definite directions, as to quantities, that the beginner has 
no difficulty in successfully accomplishing all the book calls 
for. Then there are frequent hints as to the proper use of 
left-overs, how to market, and, in many ways, information 
is given that is alike useful to the experienced cook as to 
the tyro in matters culinary. 

The book is full of choice recipes, every one of which 
has been successfully tested by Mrs. Rorer, in class room 
and home, and found to come out right. This alone is of 
incalculable benefit and ought to commend the book to 
the favorable consideration of every housekeeper. 

I2mo, nearly 600 pages, with portrait of author; 
water-proof and grease-proof covers, ^1.75 



Digitized by 



Google 



Mrs. Rorer^s 
My Best 250 Recipes 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. Rorer's 
New Cook Book, Canning and Preserving, etc. 

It would be strange indeed if, out of the multitude of 
recipes Mrs. Rorer has invented and used during her long 
career as a teacher, writer and lecturer, she did not 
have some that appealed to her more strongly than others. 
She has gathered these together, classifying them under 
their different heads. There are best 20 Soups ; Best 20 
Fish Recipes; Best 20 Meats; Best 20 Salads; Best 20 
Desserts; Best 20 Sauces, Vegetables, Fruit Preserves, 
Luncheon Dishes, Ices, Summer Recipes, Left Overs, 
Game and Poultry, Breads and Biscuits, etc. 
i2mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 

Mrs. Rorer's 
Many Ways for Cooking Eggs 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. Rorer's 
New Cook Book, Bread and Bread-Making, etc. 
Did you ever reflect what an important part eggs play 
in our domestic economy? When from any reason 
other things fail, the perplexed housewife knows she can 
do something to tide over her difficulties by the use of 
eggs. But how many know the great possibilities that 
lie in an egg — the very many ways of cooking and 
preparing them for the table? To many, boiled, fried, 
poached and scrambled form the limit of their knowledge. 
But get this book and you'll be surprised at the feast 
in store for you. You'll also And recipes for delectable 
Egg Sauces. 

i6mo, cloth, 35 cents net ; by mail, 38 cents 



Digitized by 



Google 



Mrs. Rorer^s 
Every Day Menu Book 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. Rorer's New 

Cook Book, Canning and Preserving, etc. 
In the coarse of her teaching and editorial work, there 
have come to Mrs. Rorer frequent requests for a book that 
will provide a daily bill of ^e, one that will be at once 
rational, its directions easy of accomplishment, and give 
an excellent variety. Hence this Menu Book. 

It contains a menu for every meal in the year, system- 
atically arranged by months and days ; menus for special 
occasions, such as holidays, weddings, luncheons, teas, 
etc.; illustrations of decorated tables for various social 
events, with appropriate menus ; menus arranged for the 
seasons both as to food and decorations ; a department of 
menus without meats. A fine volume that ought to com- 
mend itself to every housekeeper. 

i2mo, 300 pages, handsomely illustrated; bound 
in cloth, 1^1.50 net; postage 12 cents 

Mrs. Rorer^s 
Cakes y Icings and Fillings 

Every one is interested in the cake problem. There is 
possibly no item in the home bill of fare on which a 
woman prides herself as the ability to make a good cake. 
But how to add variety to the goodness ? Here's the book 
to help. Contains a large number of enticing and valua- 
ble recipes for cakes of all sorts and conditions. Some 
need filling, some need icing — well, here you have all the 
necessary information. Best of all, there is no fear as to 
results. Follow the directions and your cake is bound 
to come out right. 

I2mo, cloth, SO cents net; by mail, 55 cents 



Digitized by 



Google 



Canning and Preserving 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. Rorer's Cook 

Book, Hot Weather Dishes, etc. 

The only book on the subject worth the name. In it Mrs. 
Rorer discusses at length the canning and preserving of fruits 
and vegetables, with the kindred subjects of marmalades, 
butters, fruit jellies and syrups, drying and pickling. The 
recipes are clearly and simply given. 

i2mo, with index; cloth covers, 50 cents 



Hot Weather Dishes 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. Rorer's Cook 

Book, Canning and Preserving, etc. 

Its name tells the whole story. It is the only book of the kind 
published. Hot weather seems to suspend the inventive faculty 
of even the best housekeepers, and at a season when the appe- 
tite needs every help and encouragement, this book will be 
found of the greatest use. It is full of choice recipes for tempting 
and dainty dishes, with suggestions for presenting the substan- 
tials in palatable forms. 

l2mo, with index ; cloth covers, 50 cents 



Home Candy Making 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. Rorer's Cook 
Book, Canning and Preserving, etc. 

A veritable book of sweets, full of choice recipes, with complete 
instructions for makingr the many delicacies that delight both 
young and old. It is the result of careful practice in teaching 
beginners how to make attractive and wholesome varieties of 
home-made candies. The excellence of the recipes consists 
in their simplicity and faithfulness to details. This charming 
little volume presents a pleasant path to success. 

I2mo, with index; cloth covers, 50 cents 



Digitized by 



Google 



New Salads 

For Dinners, Luncheons, Suppers and Receptions 
With a group of Odd Salads and some Ceylon 
Salads. By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. 
Rorer's Cook Book, Canning and Preserving, etc. 

Here are gathered together a choice lot of original recipes 
for the proper making and serving of this important dish. 
Not enough attention is paid to this matter by the average 
housekeeper, and hence much pleasure and benefit is lost. 
Mrs. Rorer in her introduction says : 

"A salad made from a succulent green vegetable and 
French dressing, should be seen on the dinner table in every 
well-regulated household three hundred and sixty five times 
a year. These green vegetables contain the salts necessary 
to the well being of our blood; the oil is an easily- digested 
form of fatty matter ; the lemon juice gives us sufficient acid ; 
therefore simple salads are exceedingly wholesome. We do 
not refer here to the highly-seasoned mixtures of meats and 
vegetables with a heavy mayonnaise dressing. These are 
rather objectionable. However, if one omits the mustard, 
seasoning the materials lightly and sensibly, and serves such 
salads for a lunch or for an evening collation, they are much 
more wholesome than the average fried dish, upon which 
many depend for their fatty food. 

" During the summer, the dinner salad may be composed 
of any well-cooked green vegetable, served with a French 
dressing ; string beans, cauliflower, a mixture of peas, tumipsi 
carrots and new beets, boiled radishes, cucumbers, tomatoes^ 
uncooked cabbage, and daintily cooked spinach. In the 
winter, serve celery^ lettuce, endive, chickory, escarole and 
chervU." 

Long l6mo, with Index; bound in salad-^reeit 
doth, 50 cents 



Digitized by 



Google 



Bread and Bread^Making 

How to make many varieties easily and with the 
best results. By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of 
Mrs. Rorer's Cook Book^ Canning and Pre- 
serving, etc. 

Bread forms such an important part of the daily fare, 
that it would seem to be a work of supererogation to do more 
than simply present this book to the notice of the housewives of 
the country. A few words, however, as to its purpose, may 
not be out of place. The object of the work is two-fold. 
First, to give in a concise and easily-managed form a set of 
recipes used in every household every day. Secondly, to 
point out the reasons why failures so often occur, even with 
perfect recipes, and how to guard against them. 

The book contains a chapter on wheat and how to 
properly select flour; then follows directions for mixing, 
kneading, moulding and baking, with a chapter on yeast. 
The recipes cover the ground of bread-making completely. 
In the list we find white wheat bread, whole-wheat bread, 
French and Graham bread, 19th Century, Golden Loaf, 
Swedish, etc. Then there are the Small Breads, such as 
Vienna Rolls, Pocket Book Rolls, Crumpets, Muffins, German 
Horns, Nuns' Puffs, etc. A chapter on Second Cooking of 
Bread gives us Zwieback, Toasts, Pulled Bread, etc., followed 
by Quick Breads, Steamed Breads and Sweet Breads. 

Every recipe in the book, with well-selected materials, 
has been tried by the author, and many times by her pupils, 
with perfect results. 

Long i6mo, with index ; illustrated with cuts in the 

beautiful three-color process : a companion to 

New Salads and Made Over Dishes; 

bound in cloth, 50 cents. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Dainties 

A book for all occasions. By Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 
i6mo, cloth, 35 cents net; by mail, 38 cents. 

Possibly no part of the daily bill of fare so taxes the 
ingenuity of the housewife as the dessert, that final touch to 
the meal that lingers in the palate like a benediction. We 
tire of constant repetitions of familiar things. We want variety. 
Why not have it when there are so many ways and means of 
gratifying our tastes. Mrs. Rorer has given here a number of 
choice things covering quite a range of possibilities. Among 
the contents we might mention Appetizers, Vegetable Cocktails, 
Fruit Cocktails, Punches, Small Cakes, Simple Candies, Dain- 
ties to take the place of Cakes, Desserts, Frozen Puddings, Ice 
Cream, Sauces, etc. The book is certainly helpful, and can 
well be regarded as a mainstay in everyday affairs. 

Made-Over Dishes 

How to transform the left overs into palatable and 
wholesome dishes. With many new and valuable 
recipes. By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. 
Rorer *s Cook Book, New Salads, etc. Long 
l6mo, index ; cloth, 50 cents. 

We quote from the author's introduction : 

" Economical marketing does not mean the purchase of 
inferior articles at a cheap price, but of a small quantity of the 
best materials found in the market ; these materials to be wisely 
and economically used. Small quantity and no waste, just 
enough and not a piece too much, is a good rule to remember. 
In roasts and steaks, however, there will be, in spite of careful 
buying, bits left over, that if economically used, may be con- 
verted into palatable, sightly and wholesome dishes for the 
next day*s lunch or supper. 

••Never purchase the so-called tender meat for stews, 
Hamburg steaks or soups ; nor should you purchase a round 
or shoulder steak for broiling, nor an old chicken for roasting. 
Select a fowl for a fricassee, a chicken for roasting, and a so- 
called spring chicken for broiling. Each has its own individ- 
ual price and place." 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



I HC 3S1V Y 



ttJM14. 




' 



3 2044 045 168 614 




Digitized by 



Google 



Mrs. Rarer ft ¥*9«(Abt« cookmry t90fl 
Countwav Library AKIJ3060 

;i 

3 2044 045 168 614 




