



to 



Household Soienoe 
Department 
Univ. of Toronto 




u ^ 



% o 

; f- 

r. X 
IS 



i a: 



u^^ap:^ 



J7 110151^0 g^ AUG 19 1965 | 

^^ . . OF T^^--' 



y. 



Journal/ Home Economics 

Vol. I. FEBRUARY, 1909 No. i 

ANNOUNCEMENT 

The American Home Economics Association and the Journal of 

Home Economics. 

The American Home Economics Association was formally 
organized at a meeting called for that purpose at Washington, 
D. C, December 31-January 2, 1908-9. Some one hundred and 
forty-three persons registered as present at one or another session 
of the conference, and when the delegates met for the informal 
convention dinner on New Year's night, the list of original mem- 
bers stood at exactly seven hundred. The membership on 
February i, was 830. 

The Association has for its purpose, according to the constitu- 
tion, "the improvement of living conditions in the home, the 
institutional household and the community"; and welcomes to 
its membership "all who are actively interested in home problems 
including: "all professionally concerned with this field, as 
teachers of Domestic Science and Art, Home and Institutional 
Economics, and allied educational fields, students, investigators, 
housekeepers, institution managers, social and municipal workers, 
interested housewives and homemakers ; professional workers in 
allied fields, as educators, physicians, hygienists, sanitary experts, 
architects, and others; clubs, associations, societies and institu- 
tions interested in the work of this Association." 

The specific means with which the Association proposes to 
attain these ends are stated in the constitution which is printed 
elsewhere in this issue. Most prominent, perhaps, among the 
agencies for advancement Avhich were mentioned both in the 
preliminary discussions and correspondence and in the sessions at 
Washington, was a professional journal to be owned by the 
Association and published imder its direction. The constitution 
which was adopted contained a clause directing the Executive 
Committee to publish such a journal. This first number of the 



2 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Journal of Home Economics, therefore, appears. For the 
present it will be published as a bi-monthly in the months of 
February, April, June, October and December, though it is the 
earnest hope and expectation that it may increase both in size and 
worth, and in frequency of issue, as time goes by. 

Certain purposes of such a journal are evident. It should, of 
course, contain reports of proceedings of the conventions of the 
Association, and as far as practicable, reports of local societies 
affiliated with the American Association. It will be agreed prob- 
ably that as a professional journal it should, first of all, print 
original articles both on the theoretical side of the household arts 
and sciences and in the applied fields, whether of education, or of 
practical work in the home, the institution and the community. 
Such articles must be written in large part by our own member- 
ship, although the cooperation of expert persons in other fields 
may be expected, and should embody the results of scientific 
study or of practical experience and represent the best which any 
one of us has to offer to fellow workers. A related division of 
such a journal is that of abstracts to present the gist of articles 
appearing elsewhere, for a professional journal should, as far as 
practicable, be a "review of reviews" of other publications, when, 
as occasionally, they enter its own limited field. Signed reviews 
and briefer statements of books naturally form another section. 
News items, whether referring to persons, institutions or other 
subjects, may well be grouped together. Editorial statements 
by those responsible for the Journal, and enquiries and expression 
of opinion from Association members may appear occasionally. 
To such a structure, life will come only as thought and energy are 
devoted to it by many persons. As the plans for the Journal are 
carried further, a Board of Contributing Editors representing the 
various fields of home economics will doubtless be needed who 
may stand sponsor each for the varied interests involved. 

The American Home Economics Association is not a new 
movement; it represents the further development of an activity, 
which as the Lake Placid Conference on Home Economics has 
for ten years furnished leadership in bringing science and art into 
the service of the home. The new Association will welcome into 
its membership all who are in sympathy with this purpose. 



LAKE PLACID CONFERENCE ON HOME ECONOMICS. 

1899—1908. 

Ten years ago a small group of eleven persons met by invita- 
tion at the Lake Placid Club in the Adirondacks for a conference 
on "home science or household economics." There were present: 
Mrs. Ellen Richards (chairman), Miss Anna Barrows (secretary), 
Miss Maria Daniell, Mr. and Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Miss Emily 
Huntington, Mrs. W. V. Kellen, Miss Louisa A. Nicholass, Mrs. 
AHce Peloubet Norton, Miss Maria Parloa and Mrs. William G. 
Shailer. This was the first Lake Placid Conference on Home 
Economics, September 19-25, 1899, and as the Lake Placid 
organization is now to be merged in the new American Home 
Economics Association, for whose organization, indeed, the Lake 
Placid Conference provided, it is fitting that some historical 
statement should be here made. It is impressive to read to-day 
the list of topics set in advance for discussion at the first Lake 
Placid Conference. They were as follows : 

1. A classification of household economics as a working basis. 

2. Additions to the bibliographies already printed, with annotations. 

3. Provision for the higher education of some selected young women 
who shall be fitted by the best training for a higher leadership. 

4. A compilation of the results of experience in teaching domestic 
economy in schools of this kind in this country and in Europe. 

5. The preparation of a series of papers or brochures in domestic 
science, which the government may publish and distribute as it now does 
the bulletins on food and nutrition through the department of agriculture. 

6. The founding of state schools or chairs of household econoniics in 
our state universities. 

7 . The training of teachers of domestic science. 

8. What name best interprets this work ? 

9. Industrial science as a part of the high school curriculum. 

10. Some method of cooperation between experiment stations and 
schools of domestic science. 

1 1 . Domestic science in farmers' institutes. 

12. How can domestic science help the woman who does her own work? 

1 3 . Simplified methods of housekeeping. 

14. The discussion of technical details in the conduct of the home which 
may lead to some agreement on definite and approved methods. 

15. Standards of living as affected by sanitary science." 

These topics indicate the high aim which the Lake Placid 
Conference set from its very beginning. A glance through its 



4 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

first annual report confirms the feeling that the leaders of this 
movement were wise and far-sighted in no ordinary sense. 
Some quotations from this report may make this more plain. 
One speaker said: "Those who can make the home all it should 
be will get nearer the foundations of life than even the teachers, 
ministers and educators. People have money enough but do not 
know how to spend it. Life to most people is the supreme con- 
cern, and through sanitation and improved methods of living it is 
possible to lengthen life materially and make the home a better 
and happier place." 

How we came to have the name "Home Economics" is indi- 
cated by this: "A general name, simple yet comprehensive 
enough to cover sanitation, cookery and kindred household arts, 
and instruction in the art or science of living from the kinder- 
garten to the college, was not an easy thing to find. After a full 
discussion there was agreement on the name 'Home Economics' 
as the title preferable for the whole general subject, and it was 
determined to consider it as a distinct section of the general sub- 
ject of economics, so that it should find a logical place in the 
college and university course and not be confused with the mere 
'Household Arts' often taught under larger names. The latter, 
however important practically for the general public, could 
never expect to be recognized as a part of the university curri- 
culum. While home economics was taken as a general term, it 
may be wise to use other phrases for its sub-divisions ; domestic 
economy might be appropriate for lessons for the younger pupils ; 
domestic science might be apphed in high schools where foods and 
house sanitation can be studied by scientific methods, while 
household or home economics would be suitable for college 
courses." 

The question of the preparation of young women for higher 
leadership was discussed and "the necessity for trained women 
as leaders of public sentiment was emphasized by several. It 
was recommended that the trend of the college curriculum away 
from the home should be brought to the attention of the colleges; 
that they should be shown the important relation of home 
economics to the individual home, and that there might be made 
a new profession commanding adequate compensation." 

The household itself, for whose betterment the conference met, 
was not forgotten, and Miss Parloa presented a paper on "How 



1909] Lake Placid Conference on Home Economics 5 

Can Domestic Science Help the Woman Who Does Her Own 
Work?" Other subjects which came in for discussion were: 
bibHographies of home economics; domestic science at farmers' 
institutes; the kitchen garden as the means of training small 
children; social betterment through domestic training in the 
tenements ; the work of the United States Department of Agri- 
culture and the encouragement of household arts and home 
economics by state legislation. One of the evening lectures at 
the conference was on "Standards of Living," by Mrs. Richards, 
who presented the view so well known now in her book of the same 
title. This was the first of those annual addresses by its chair- 
man which helped to give the conference broad views of the field 
in which its useful activities were gradually developed. Perhaps 
the aim of the conference and the aim of the new association can- 
not be better stated than in a phrase which appears in the first 
report: "It is to become a kind of clearing-house for all the 
schools and teachers of home economics." One could only wish 
to include in the definition the professional worker in the home 
and institutional household, and all, whether students, scientists, 
or practical persons, who are interested in the improvement of 
living conditions. 

The form in which the first conference took its rise, a meeting 
arranged on personal invitation, was perpetuated as the most 
useful basis of organization for the stage of progress which home 
economics had then reached. As the first report puts it: "As 
the purpose of the conference is to work through existing agencies 
rather than to form an elaborate organization of its own, no 
time was wasted in preparing a constitution and by-laws." The 
officers of the first conference were continued for the next year 
and, save for a single year, the conference has laid the burden of 
its chairmanship upon one person, Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, the 
president-elect of the new association. Whatever the conference 
has accomplished through the ten years may be fairly ascribed to 
the leadership of this chairman and to Mr. and Mrs. Melvil Dewey, 
the hosts who entertained the conference year after year at Lake 
Placid. About them from the first was gathered and held a 
membership which included those prominent in various fields of 
home economics, and which in 1908, numbered two-hundred and 
two persons. 



6 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

It is not possible to state all that the Lake Placid Conference 
accomplished in its ten years' existence. Some things are evi- 
dent, however. It has been the chief rallying-point for students, 
teachers and professional workers interested in home economics, 
and has furnished an ideal opportunity for the exchange of ideas, 
the reviewing of progress, and the formation of plans for further 
advance. It has in its annual reports of proceedings equipped a 
treasure-house with statements of facts and theory upon which 
workers in the field will draw for an indefinite time to come. 
These are the two most direct results. Some of the more indirect 
results are equally obvious, as: the promotion of a literature of 
home economics; the organization of courses of study; the 
criticism of courses for the preparation of teachers ; the bringing 
together of teachers in the "Teaching Section" of the Lake 
Placid Conference; the improvement of housekeeping both in 
the home and in the institutional household; the international 
exchange of ideas ; the encouragement of research by the govern- 
ment and in the universities, and the promotion of an education, 
both lower and higher, which recognizes the home and would 
make wholesome living the common lot. 

These, and numberless other tasks, the Lake Placid Conference 
has taken up and carried forward, and one may hope that they 
will in time receive their just and complete statement. Every 
worker in home economics will wish to possess himself of such 
volumes as are available of the proceedings of these ten Lake 
Placid Conferences, and it is to be hoped that at some not distant 
day, a suitable index of the ten volumes and a balanced sum- 
mary of the results which the Conferences accomplished, may be 
made. 

At its beginning the new Association may well pause to pay 
some due measure of praise to the guiding minds which have met 
in the Lake Placid Conference, and may rejoice that all these are 
lending their personal approval and hearty support in this new 
alliance. 



THE WASHINGTON CONVENTION. 

On December 31st, 1908, the Teaching Section of the Lake 
Placid Conference on Home Economics met in the McKinley 
Manual Training High School at Washington, D. C, for the 
program which had been announced on Domestic Art in second- 
ary schools; the Section concluded its sessions with a brief 
report from the "Committee on Organization of an American 
Home Economics Association" and then adjourned, sine die, to 
reconvene immediately as a convention for the organization of 
the American Home Economics Association. On Thursday 
afternoon, December 31st, the outline of the constitution of the 
new Association was adopted and general officers were elected, 
Friday, January ist, was given over to round-table conferences 
and committee meetings, and Friday evening, New Year's night, 
the delegates met at an informal convention dinner. Saturday 
morning the now officially constituted American Home Econom- 
ics Association held public sessions at the George Washington 
University, and Saturday afternoon the delegates held a business 
session which completed the constitution, elected the remaining 
officers, and completed the work of the conference. Such in the 
briefest outline, was the conference at Washington. 

For several years the members of the Lake Placid Conference 
on Home Economics had looked forward to the organization of a 
national or international association which might bring large 
numbers of interested persons into cooperation to advance 
educational and other measures for home betterment. The 
formation of the Teaching Section of the Lake Placid Conference 
in December, 1906, at Pratt Institute, and its meeting the follow- 
ing year at Chicago University, were expressions of this desire. 
Finally, at the Lake Placid Confeience of 1908, held by invitation 
at Chautauqua, it was agreed that the time had come for the 
larger association; the name "American Home Economics 
Association" was tentatively adopted, and a committee on 
organization was appointed to draw up a constitution and work- 
ing plans which were to be reported at the meeting of the Teach- 
ing Section of the conference at Washington, D. C, during the 
Christmas holidays. Dr. C. F. Langworthy of the U. S. Depart- 



8 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

ment of Agriculture, was made chairman of the committee and 
other members were appointed as follows: 

Isabel Bevier, Professor of Household Science, University of 
Illinois. 

Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid Club. Essex Co., N. Y. 
Alice P. Norton, Assistant Professor of Domestic Administra- 
tion, University of Chicago. 

Adelaide Nutting, Professor of Domestic Administration, 
Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Ellen H. Richards, Msasachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Chairman of Lake Placid Conference. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, Secretary, Departments of Domestic 
Economy, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Maurice LeBosquet, Director, American School of Home 
Economics, Chicago. 

This committee undertook by correspondence, supplemented 
where possible by personal consultation, to draw up during the 
fall the frame -work of a constitution and by-laws for the Associa- 
tion. Two meetings were held by members of the committee who 
could attend and the views of other members as well as nearly 
fifty other persons were gathered by mail. The results reached 
were reported at the Washington meeting and after revision by 
the convention, became the basis of the organization formed. 

Owing to the manner in which the new organization came 
about, through a committee of the Lake Placid Conference, 
instructed to report at the Teaching Section of that conference at 
Washington, there resulted the peculiar situation that two 
distinct organizations were represented in the meetings: the 
Teaching Section of the Lake Placid Conference. Thursday 
morning, December 31st, which as a committee of the Lake 
Placid Conference, was dismissed by the Chairman of the Lake 
Placid Conference at the close of the session ; and the organizing 
body, the American Home Economics Association, which met 
Thursday afternoon for organization and became, in fact, the 
organization in convention for the remaining sessions. 

One may speak here, also, of other features of the convention 
outside the regular sessions, which added much to the pleasure 
of the delegates. At the close of the Thursday afternoon 
session, a number of delegates visited the Ne'ighborhood House 
in Washington and inspected an exhibit of industrial work which 



1909] Tlie Washington Convention 9 

was on display there. Thursday evening, an audience composed 
of the delegates and a large number of Washington people 
gathered to hear a lecture on Household Art by Professor Arthur 
Wesley Dow, of Teachers College, Columbia University, which 
was given in the auditorium of the McKinley Manual Training 
High School. Following this lecture, the delegates were enter- 
tained with a delightful reception at the McKinley School, 
arranged by the domestic science and domestic art teachers of 
Washington. 

On Friday, many attended the public reception of the 
President, at the White House. Friday afternoon there was 
opportunity for visits about the city to schools and institutions, 
and for general sight-seeing. Friday night an informal dinner 
had been arranged for delegates at the Hotel Gordon ; sixty-four 
sat down together in groups of four, at small tables, each presided 
over by a host or hostess who had been chosen from those 
prominent in the home economics movement. Mrs. Richards 
was unable to be present as she was detained at the meetings 
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 
Baltimore. She and Mrs. Abel sent their greetings, however, in 
the following telegram which was enthusiastically received: 
"Happy New Year to the new Society; may it celebrate its 
fiftieth birthday with the establishment of the new species of 
housewife." During the course of the dinner it had been 
arranged that the hostesses should move about, from table to 
table, thus giving all the delegates an opportunity to become 
acquainted with them personally. Doctor LangTN'orthy had 
been asked to preside as toast-master and there were a number 
of informal speeches — by Miss Arnold, Miss Talbot, Miss Kinne, 
Dr. True, Miss Parloa, Miss Mulligan, Miss Stoner, Miss Berry 
and others. The secretary was able to announce at the dinner 
that the membership of the Association, at that time, stood at 
precisely seven hundred. One of the most pleasant features 
was the tribute which Miss Berry paid in a closing address to 
those who have led in the home economics movement. 

A feature which many found helpful was the exhibit of work 
in household arts which had been prepared and placed on display 
at the McKinley Manual Training High School, under the 
direction of Miss Jacobs of the Washington schools. 



MEETING OF THE TEACHING SECTION OF LAKE 
PLACID CONFERENCE. 

The third annual meeting of the Teaching Section of the Lake 
Placid Conference was called to order at lo.oo a. m., December 
31st, 1908, at the McKinley Manual Training High School, 
Washington, D. C, Mrs. Ellen H. Richards of Boston, Chairman 
of the Lake Placid Conference, in the chair. 

Mr. Benjamin R. Andrews of New York, was nominated and 
elected as secretary of the meeting. 

On motion, the secretary was directed to convey the greetings 
of the conference to the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secre- 
tary of the Interior, and to extend an invitation to them to be 
present at the Saturday morning meeting. 

Mrs. Richards. It is just eleven years ago this month that 
there was wrought out the first program of a conference on home 
problems. The meeting did not take place until the summer, 
but it is just eleven years ago this January that the first con- 
ference was planned. The program was designed to consider 
the work from the theoretical and research standpoint as well as 
from the practical view of good housekeeping. We are extremely 
glad to find that the seed has grown. I often think that it takes 
20 years for an idea to sprout, and I am sure we feel that the little 
seed has grown very greatly in the eleven years. That we can 
have such a gathering as this and meet for the purpose of trans- 
ferring ideas from one to another, is a very great pleasure to us 
all. In order to have the meeting a success the local committee 
has made several very definite arrangements for you. Dr. 
Langworthy of Washington, will make the announcements. 

Dr. C. F. Langworthy. The first meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association will be held in this room this after- 
noon. At the close of the session this afternoon a party of 
delegates will visit the Neighborhood House where an exhibition 
is in progress. An inspection of Centre Market which is a very 
interesting type of city market, will be made at 8:15 Saturday 
morning. We will also be very glad to welcome the delegates 
to the Office of Experiment Stations in the Department of Agri- 



10 



1909] Meeting of the Teaching Section 11 

culture, where the Respiration Calorimeter is in process of con- 
struction. Dr. Winthrop Talbot has started in the neighborhood 
of Washington an outdoor school for boys and he will be very- 
glad, indeed, to see any of the delegates who care to come in the 
afternoon of New Year's day. 

Mrs. Richards. At the first meeting of the conference a most 
elaborate scheme, the first of its kind, was prepared as a basis for 
discussion of the teaching of the various branches of domestic art 
and science, and a committee appointed which has continued 
throughout the years since. MissKinne.of Teachers College, was 
chairman of that committee, and has been constantly at work 
on that schem.e with the aid of very many of you who have been 
interested in it. The problem was so broad that the feeling grew 
that a summer m^eeting devoted to a great variety of subjects was 
not sufficient to thresh out the details, therefore three years ago 
we made the experiment of a Teaching Section devoted to this 
work, and Miss Kinne was asked to take charge of the Teaching 
Section, which position she has held through this, the third year. 
We are very glad now to consider ourselves as a Conference of 
the Teaching Section, and Miss Kinne will take the chair. 

Miss Kinne. It certainly is a notable distinction for the 
Teaching Section that it should meet in Washington, our national 
center. It is a happy coincidence too that just at this time there 
is before Congress a bill known as the Davis bill which has to do 
with appropriations for developing home economics in the 
secondary and normal schools of this country. It is, I suppose, 
more than a coincidence that last summer at the general con- 
ference, the Lake Placid Conference as a whole expressed its 
interest in, and its approval of, this measure. It is also a great 
pleasure that we are to receive our welcome to Washington from 
a government official who is greatly interested in this bill and who 
will tell us something of its possible workings — Ass't Secretary 
Willet M. Hays, of the Department of Agriculture. 

Secretary Hays. I feel that I can welcome you on the part of 
the administration of this great Government because the Presi- 
dent is most particularly and most intensely interested in voca- 
tional education along all lines. I assure you that I can welcome 
you most heartily .in the name of Secretary Wilson who has been 
the chiefest of the advocates of vocational training and of 
research to put vocational training on a good basis. I assure you 



12 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

that I can welcome you on the part of the people of the public 
school system, and particularly of that splendid school for women 
and boys and girls in this building which has come to be in a way 
typical of what all of our cities are to do. The American people 
are going to welcome most earnestly the organization you are so 
splendidly inaugurating. You can not even now, as I believe, 
dream of what is to come to the women of America, and the 
homes of America, and the boys and girls of America, and to the 
fathers of America, through this organization to build up the 
vocation of home making. 

I wish I had time to talk along these general lines, but time is 
short and it is more practical to talk about the Davis bill. 

The Davis bill would provide in addition to the agricultural 
colleges now in the United States, three or four hundred agricul- 
tural high schools, one practically in each rural Congressional 
district. It would provide for each city a school of mechanic arts 
and home economics such as this school is growing into. It 
would provide that the teachers of our nearly one hundred and 
fifty State normal schools be trained, or at least a large part of 
them, to teach something of agriculture, mechanic arts and home 
economics. It w'ould provide in addition to this a great extension 
of our State experiment stations, one added experiment station 
to each of these branch agricultural schools, or smaller agricul- 
tural colleges. Here is a provisional map of Minnesota under the 
Davis bill. It provides ten agricultural high school districts in 
the State, and it show's the proportional amount of money that 
would go to the cities in the different sections of the State for 
mechanic arts and home economics in schools like this McKinley 
Manual Training School. This bill provides that over the terri- 
tory of the United States ten cents per capita be given to each 
State. That first for cities above 2,000 population, this may be 
used for schools something after the type of this McKinley High 
School ; not providing simply mechanic arts and home economics 
for the technicians, but including provision for the boys and girls 
who now drop out of the primary grades and go unprepared into 
some vocation, — home making or some city industry. Then for 
the country population, including villages up to 2,000, it provides 
an agricultural high school practically for every ten counties and 
gives to them ten cents per capita on the rural population. It 
then gives one cent per capita to the State for its normal schools 



1909] Meeting of the Teaching Section 13 

to be divided among the several State normal schools. Then it 
gives one cent per capita for branch experiment stations associa- 
ted with these agricultural high schools. 

The higher secondary schools and the normal schools are the 
great sources of teachers for the lower schools. Often pupils go 
from the secondary schools to the normal schools for a short time, 
but we need so far as the country is concerned a system of county 
schools, county agricultural schools, that vrill reach the country 
population as the secondary schools in the cities reach all city 
people. We have already a great many consolidated rural 
schools; we must have more despite their cost. So far as agri- 
culture is concerned and so far as home economics is concerned in 
the rural communities, 75 per cent of the problem lies in the 
consolidated rural school, and the schools for which provision 
would be made in the Davis bill would provide teachers for both 
agriculture and home economics. The greatest functions of 
these institutions will be to provide teachers for these consolidated 
rural schools, and if we have twenty in each county, in two-thirds 
of our counties we shall have something like thirty thousand 
consolidated schools each to have a department of home 
economics. These consolidated schools teach the high school 
subjects of the first and second high school years. Thirty 
thousand teachers of home economics and thirty thousand 
teachers of mechanic arts in the rural schools of this country will 
make America over. 

Here is a plan for a consolidated rural school with its four or 
five room school building with a laboratory to be used 
alternately by the teacher of agriculture and the teacher of 
mechanic arts, and with 1 50 pupils, 130 of whom are in the grades 
and 20 of whom are in a two-year high school course preparing to 
go to the agricultural high school or the normal school. This 
would take care of four or five million of the farm boys and girls 
of America and if one or two hundred thousand then went on to 
the high schools we would have coming back not only those who 
can teach in these schools, but a group of people with additional 
standards of education who would be the leading farmers and the 
leading farm home-makers, who would carry this consolidated 
rural school to its completion; would see to it that money was 
raised and the teachers supported. 



14 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Here carry the idea out a little further. In addition to the ten 
acre school farm, establish at the center, in addition to the school, 
a church, and a creamery, and possibly a cooperative bakery and 
a cooperative abbattoir to relieve the labor of the women some- 
what on the farm and to make it less necessary to have the farm 
family, that greatest institution, that best rural institution that 
we have, drift towards landlordism and peasantry. Thus we 
will help give the people of the country that education which will 
enable them to so bind together the rearing of a family, the home 
life and the business of farming that they will own the land and be 
their own masters. 

I was going to close, but I trust you will bear with me for a 
picture, a picture of the consolidated rural school with 65 acres for 
field crops, 5 acres for campus, farm buildings, and for the princi- 
pal to reside on with his family for a long tenure of office. Then 
let the school be open seven or eight or nine months according to 
the community; let the older pupils, however, go to school only 
six months as has been proven wise in the agricultural high 
schools in Minnesota and Nebraska. During this six months give 
them considerable technical agriculture, mechanic arts, and 
liberally, agriculture and home economics, and during the alter- 
nating six months let the teacher spend four days of the week 
visiting among the farmers helping to make the work on the 
home place more attractive through education. That is the most 
wonderful kind of pedagogics. Bring into the school scheme the 
influence of the parents, and thus greatly increase the efficiency 
of the parents in their part of educating the boys. Then let the 
teacher of home economics the other two days use this same horse 
and buggy and visit the girls and mothers. Then once a week 
let the wagons that haul the children to school, bring these older 
pupils to school. Let them have somewhat of a gala day with 
their literary exercise, with their reports of their home work. 
Let them at this time take care of the horticulture and work this 
little farm. Have a county superintendent grown up from 
among these teachers, and an assistant county superintendent. 
Let your superintendent then plan so that this principal will not 
do the farm work himself but will require these boys with the help 
of the girls to do this work under instruction which will ensure 
that they are learning to do the manual arts' well. Games and 
sports too might be carried on and be a cooperative influence; 



1909] Meeting of the Teaching Section 15 

and all these agencies would teach farm boys how to become 
leaders in the church, in social and political matters. It would 
teach them how to cooperate, to see how the projects of labor 
and capital are worked out for all the people. 

Miss Kinne. I am most happy to express for this Conference to 
Mr. Hays and to our government, our most sincere appreciation of 
the heartiness of our welcome here. It seems to me to place us 
where we feel that we belong as part of the great National govern- 
ment. This is truly a National movement. It is not only a National 
but a world movement. We have a Japanese representative in 
this conference, a domestic science teacher from almost half 
around the globe ; and this morning a registered letter came from 
the Philippines giving an account of the domestic science work 
over there. During a single week recently, a cablegram arrived 
from the Sandwich Islands asking for a teacher of domestic science, 
and a professor from the University of Rome reached New York 
city to inquire how we are teaching home economics in our 
secondary schools and colleges. We get word like this from all 
over the world . It is only two years ago that a teacher from Zulu- 
land wanted to take information to the Zulus. Here at the center 
of our ow^n civilization I think we can really read the meaning of 
this whole movement. The progress into new conditions of life 
has come about at such a rapid pace that heretofore the necessary 
readjustment has not been completely made and we are all 
suffering ethically and physically. This home economics move- 
ment is part of the effort to consciously adjust ourselves to 
changed conditions of every sort and kind. 

It is an inspiration to hear of the possibilities of thirty thousand 
teachers. Mr. Hays referred to twenty-three years ago ; I won- 
der how many teachers here were here twenty-three years ago. 
Twenty-nve years ago where did this work exist? There was a 
beginning of it in two of our agricultural colleges — Iowa and 
Kansas. In the east we find in New York and Boston a move- 
ment really endowed by philanthropic men and women outside of 
the school circle, — Mrs. Heminway in Boston and others in New 
York City making an effort to bring into the schools something in 
the form of practical education. We find a few single women, 
women alone, acting as pioneers, going out, giving lessons and 
talking home matters. We all remember the early work of Miss 
Maria Parloa, whom we have the good fortune to have with us 



1 6 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

today. She can tell us more about our early history than any one 
here, and I know she appreciates how much this meeting means, 
how much this work has developed in twenty-five years until 
today we can feel that we now are a matter of government 
interest. 

Our discussion this morning is confined to the secondary field. 
It is not that the Teaching Section of the Lake Placid Conference 
does not consider the elementary field of as great consequence as 
the secondary, but it certainly is true that at present there is a 
most extraordinary development in the secondary field. There 
is not only an increase in the work, but of the quality and kind of 
work. Certain States are introducing the work into the second- 
ary rather than into the elementary schools. This is true of Illinois. 
The University of Illinois has been most helpful to the whole 
State in helping to form a syllabus which is practically adopted 
by the secondary schools of Illinois. We find single schools grow- 
ing here and there, as for instance, the Technical High School in 
Cleveland, the Springfield, Massachusetts, High School, the 
School of Practical Arts of Boston, the Washington Irving High 
School in New York. A most interesting movement in New York 
has been initiated by the schools themselves, and not invited by 
the teachers of home economics. There is a committee appointed 
to revise the secondary school syllabus for New York City, and 
some one has been especially detailed to investigate the whole 
question of teaching of household science with a view to making 
it a course that could be adapted to the secondary schools of New 
York. In California, too, the work is developing in the secondary 
school. 

I have been asked, why is the discussion limited to domestic 
art? I believe that we all realize the more or less artificial dis- 
tinction we have made between domestic science and domestic 
art. The domestic science subjects seem to center around food, 
or the study of the topics of food, nutrition, hygiene and sanita- 
tion. The question of textiles, clothing and household decoration 
and furnishing, have generally been included in domestic art. 
Since that question has been asked, it does raise the inquiry, is it 
not time in our secondary schools to develop a unity between 
these subjects? That does not mean that any one teacher could 
teach them all. It means that we must get greater unity, we 
must give to all our pupils something of the same thought. 



1909] Meeting of the Teaching Section 17 

Therefore, I think it is very fitting this morning to devote our- 
selves to the textile side of the household arts. Mrs. Woolman of 
New York, Professor of Domestic Art in Teachers College, will 
take charge of the program. 

Mrs. Woolman. Domestic art is the younger child and perhaps 
should be heard occasionally at leSSt. Domestic science began 
earlier, and while there was sewing in the schools, at the same 
time, the whole subject of domestic art had not been really 
developed. As the subjects of the household arts came to be 
taught in higher institutions, specialization separated off the 
textile interests from the food interests, and so we had domestic art. 
This separation, however, has only to do with the more advanced 
education, and not really with the high school. The girl does not 
recognize that domestic art is different from domestic science. 
Both are concerned with the management of the home. 

Within the last few years I have been abroad several times; 
eight months in England, six months on the Continent, six 
months in France, and six months later in Germany, looking into 
the work of women. These countries have well waked up to 
these subjects and to the tremendous importance of training the 
women to a scientific understanding of the home. Therefore, it 
is well that we are gathered together in session to see what can be 
done to press forward. 

I am very sorry this morning to have to announce that Miss 
Anna Hedges, Superintendent of the Hebrew Technical School 
for Girls, New York, will not be able to be with us and give her 
paper on Domestic Art in Secondary Schools. Miss Anna M. 
Cooley, of Teachers College, is here and will discuss "The 
Organization of the Subject Matter of Domestic Art." 

Miss Cooley then gave an address, illustrated by charts, which 
is printed elsewhere in the Journal. 

After Miss Cooley 's paper, Mrs. Woolman requested Miss 
Crooks, who has made a special study of the textile field in rela- 
tion to education, to discuss this subject. 

Miss Crooks. Textile study seems to me to bear a fundamental 
relation to domestic art. I shall speak only of instruction in the 
economic values of textiles. The great work that has been done 
by the pure food laws in this country has called attention to the 
lack of any market standards in textiles. We pay money for 
goods and know not what we get. You ask for wool, and the 



i8 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

price is one dollar, and there is no guarantee that there is even 
one-quarter wool in the goods. You are perfectly hopeless and 
helpless. The merchant is responsible, you presume, but if you 
subject that material to test, you may find it all wool, and you 
may find it as I have often found it, one-quarter wool, and yet 
you pay the price for puie wool. In my investigations I have 
found a great necessity for textile standards, and I have also 
found that the chemical work necessary in tests is of great value 
and interest to the^students. All students are interested in doing 
something that gives results and students who hav"^ had academic 
chemistry will go on and take up the investigations in textile 
materials. But besides this there is the field of textile tests for 
the householder, which can be reached by students who have had 
little chemical preparation and which will make the textile work 
of great interest. In these investigations I have found that the 
testing of ordinary cotton materials, the testing of lace, the 
shrinkage of lace, the testing of woolen by burning and by vari- 
ous chemicals, are all simple things which can be brought into 
the regular high school work and which will give a thought-con- 
tent to the hand work with textiles. It not only gives thought on 
the chemical side, but it gives it on the economic side by teaching 
the girls the value of money and teaching them how to spend it. 
With the teaching of textiles, will also go the consideration of 
values in house furnishings, for instance, the value of different 
carpets, and the adulteration of the tapestry Brussels carpet. In 
this effort to standardize materials we have already found that 
there is quite an interest among manufacturers who say that they 
wish to sell good materials because the people are getting tired of 
the materials that wear out so quickly. 

Laboratory work in textiles seems a logical division of domestic 
art for consideration in the college curriculum. We hope in the 
course of time that the colleges throughout the land will equip 
laboratories for domestic economy as well as for natural science. 
In order to secure that, we must show for our work that it has a 
value in thought-content as well as in practical results, and it 
seems to me that this laboratory work which can be carried on in 
textiles is going to be a bridge that will help us. It will also bring 
about the union between domestic art and science which we hope 
for. How far this can be done remains to be seen. Certainly it 
adds another burden to the already burdened domestic art 



1909] Meeting of the Teaching Section 19 

teacher, but I feel that anything to be really practical, must have 
some solid foundation. You cannot simply teach sewing and 
expect to have that recognized for college entrance or as a college 
subject; you must be able to claim for your work that it has a 
valuable thought-content, as well as a practical result and that 
each is essential to the other. 

Mrs. "Woolman then called upon the following persons who 
continued the discussion of domestic art: 

Mr. Manny, teacher of Art in the McKinley Manual Training 
High School of "Washington, D. C, spoke on the training of good 
taste, and its application to textiles. 

Miss Jenny Snow, of the University of Chicago, spoke on 
household art instruction in the University High School. 

Miss Mitchell of the University of Chicago, urged the need of 
broadly trained teachers in all divisions of the household arts. 

Miss Speller of the Technical High School, Springfield, Mass., 
explained the results attained in the household arts course of 
study in this school, especially in improvement in taste, in 
personal neatness, and in practical skill. 

Miss Flint of Ohio State University described the two courses, 
in textiles and in design applied to house furnishings, given in the 
Domestic Art department in that University, both of which are 
correlated with instruction in fine art. 

Miss Hill of Howaid University spoke of the changing condi- 
tions of home life and the need of supplementing home experience 
by school instruction in the household arts. 

Miss Snow, of Pratt Institute, urged that Domestic Science and 
Domestic Art are fundamentally one subject and must be so 
regarded. 

At the conclusion of the program on domestic art various 
announcements were made and the Teaching Section adjourned 
to meet for a brief session in the afternoon. 

Concluding Session of Teaching Section: 

Mrs. Richards, in calling the afternoon session to order at 2 :30 
P. M., announced that an invitation had been extended to the 
Association to join in the Imperial National Exhibition in Lon- 
don. She explained that the preliminar>' organization of 
the new Association had been carried out by a Committee 
acting under the authority of the Lake Placid Conference; 
that the Committee was ready to report and that its report. 



2 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

while fornially presented to the Teaching Section, should go to 
the organizing convention of the new Association. The report 
of the Committee on Organization of the American Home 
Economics Association w^as called for. 

Dr. Langworthy, as Chairman of the Committee, read from the 
Proceedings of the Lake Placid Conference of July, 1908, the 
sections bearing upon this subject and upon the appointment of 
the Committee of Organization, as follows: 

"The Committee on Organization brought in the following report which 
was adopted : 

"The Committee on Organization beg to report the following resolutions: 

"1. Believing that a broader organization of those interested in home 
economics is desirable, the Conimittee recommends that steps be 
taken for national organization which shall take into consideration the 
Lake Placid Conference and any similar bodies, with the idea that the 
organization may profit by their experience, counsel and guidance. 

"2. It is recommended that home economics groups be started in 
different states to work for the cause in order that the organization may 
grow rapidly. 

"3. It is recommended that each member pay annual dues to the 
organization and that the organization publish a journal, the question of 
the amount of such dues, the cost of the journal and related matters, 
being settled later. 

"4. The organization particularly desires the help of teachers and it is 
recommended that an effort be made to enroll as many teachers as pos- 
sible who are interested in the various subjects which are included in home 
economics. 

"5. A name which is national in character is needed for the organiza- 
tion and such a name as 'The American Home Economics Association' or 
'National Home Economics Association' is recommended. 

"Women's clubs have grown to be a very important factor in American 
life and as very many such clubs devote, at least part of their time, to the 
study of home problems, their co-operation in the proposed organization 
is important. It is therefore recommended that special efforts be made 
to interest the women's clubs in the organization through groups formed 
for that purpose. 

"It is recommended that a committee be appointed to report at the 
meeting of the Teaching Section of the Lake Placid Conference in Washing- 
ton in December, 1908, on ways and means for carrying on the new 
organization. The Committee believes that, for success, it is essential 
that the movement progress slowly and surely, but they also believe that 
it should progress rapidly enough so that all who are interested may, as 
soon as possible, enjoy the results which such definite organization should 
bring." 

Dr. Langworthy reported further that the Committee on 
Organization appointed by the Summer Conference had held two 



1909] Meeting of the Teaching Section 21 

meetings in New York of such of its members as could con- 
veniently come together, and that the views of the other members 
and of many additional persons had been obtained by corres- 
pondence, and that upon this consensus of opinion, a constitution 
for the proposed society had been drafted which the Committee 
was ready to submit; further, that the Committee had obtained 
the nam.es of over 600 persons who wished to join the new Associa- 
tion as charter members. 

The report of the Committee on Organization was accepted for 
the Lake Placid Conference, and on motion, the Committee was 
dismissed with a vote of thanks for its work. 

The Chairman recommended that some provision be made for 
publishing the report of the Teaching Section and, on resolution, 
it was voted that the report of the addresses and proceedings of 
the Teaching Section be turned over to the new Association that 
the record might be preserved, and it was further voted, that 
the Teaching Section be discharged as a Committee of the Lake 
Placid Conference, with an expression of appreciation for the 
work accomplished and of the hope that its plans for the advance- 
ment of home economics education may be carried on by the new 
Association. 

The Chairman declared the Teaching Section discharged as a 
Committee, and, on motion, the Lake Placid Conference was 
adjourned suie die. 

A Club at Cranford, New Jersey, has presented the following subjects at 
their meetings this year: "How to Hve within one's income," "Sanita- 
tion in the home," "Personal and household hygiene," "A Dutch market," 
and "Systematic Housekeeping." 

Home Economics The Home Economics Association of Greater New York 
in New York City was organized at a preliminary meeting, November 21, 
1908, at Greenwich House Settlement. The gathering 
was addressed by Dr. Ira S. Wile on "The Domestic Science Teacher in the 
Anti-Tuberculosis Campaign." Formal organization was affected at a 
second meeting held at the American Museum of Xatural History in con- 
nection with the Tuberculosis Exhibition, December 12. This meeting 
was addressed by Dr. Thomas D. Wood on "Diet in Tuberculosis." A 
third meeting, was held at Columbia University, February 5, when Dean 
Russell of Teachers College spoke on "Practical Training in Home Eco- 
nomics." The next meeting will be March 5, at Pratt Institute. All 
home economics teachers and workers near New York are invited to join 
this local Association. The fees are fifty cents a year. 



ORGANIZATION AND FIRST MEETING OF AMERICAN 
HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

A meeting for the organization of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association was held at 2.45 p.m., December 31, 1908, in 
the McKinley Manual Training High School, Washington, D. C. 

On motion of Mrs. Mary E. Williams of New York City, Dr. 
C. F. Langworthy was nominated and duly elected chairman of 
the meeting for organization, and Benjamin R. Andrews was, by 
similar action, chosen secretary. 

Dr. Langworthy. The first step which the meeting should 
take, is the adoption of the constitution because without a con- 
stitution we cannot have a formal existence. You have been 
informed how the constitution, of which the secretary has a draft 
in hand, has been prepared. I will direct the secretary to read 
the constitution as a whole and then we will consider the wishes 
of the meeting as to its adoption. 

The draft of the constitution was read; then on motion, it 
was voted to consider the constitution and take action upon it, 
section by section. 

The sections of the constitution determining the name, object, 
membership, general officers, meetings and journal of the 
organization having been adopted, it was voted to lay the remain- 
ing sections on the table until Saturday's meeting. The chair- 
man declared the election of officers the next order of business. 

Miss Josephine Berry of DeKalb, Illinois. It is recognized by 
us all that there is but one choice for our first president. I move 
that Mrs. Ellen H. Richards be declared the unanimous choice ot 
the Association for president. The motion was seconded, unan- 
imously carried , and Mrs. Richards was declared the president- 
elect. Mrs. Richards took the chair for the remainder of the 
meeting. 

On motion, the president was directed to appoint a committee 
on nominations and the president appointed as members: Miss 
Anna Barrows, Miss Bertha Terrill and Miss Ellen Huntington. 

While the committee withdrew, Mrs. Richards presented a 
paper by Thomas C. Cooper of the Minnesota Agricultural Ex- 
periment Station, on "Cost of Living in Rural Minnesota." 

22 



1909] Organization of Home Economics Association 23 

On motion, the secretary was directed to express to Mr. 
Cooper, the thanks of the Association. 

The committee on nominations reported the following names 
for general officers: First Vice-President, Miss Isabel Bevier of 
the University of Illinois; Second Vice-Piesident, Dr. C. F. 
Langworthy, Washington, D. C; Third Vice-President, Miss 
Mary (Trie Watson of Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Ontario; 
Secretary-Treasurer, Benjamin R. Andrews of Teachers College, 
Columbia University. 

On motion, the secretary was instructed to read a ballot bear- 
ing these nominations and they were declared duly elected. 

The committee on nominations was instructed to report the 
nominations for the remaining offices at the Saturday afternoon 
session. 

On motion, the president was directed to appoint a committee 
on by-laws to report at the Saturday afternoon session. The 
president appointed Miss Nutting, Miss Marlatt and Miss Talbot 
as the committee. 

On motion, the president was directed to appoint a committee 
on legislation. The president appointed Miss Mary Snow, Mr. 
LeBosquet and Miss Talbot. 

The president made the following announcements : 

Thursday evening, December 31, an illustrated lecture on Household 
Arts will be given in the McKinley Manual Training High School, by 
Professor Arthur W. Dow of Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Following the lecture, the domestic science and domestic art teachers of 
Washington will receive the delegates. 

Friday morning. Round Tables on Domestic Art, Domestic Science and 
Household Management will be held at the Hotel Gordon. 

Friday evening, at 6.30, an informal dinner of delegates will be held at 
the Hotel Gordon. 

The session adjourned until Saturday morning. 

Morning session, Saturday, Jamiary 2, igog. 

The Convention was called to order at the George Washington 
University by the President, Mrs. Richards, who spoke as follows: 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 

The papers on the Darwin celebration in Baltimore yesterday, 
gave many illustrations tending to a hopeful outlook for 
further progress in the living conditions of the human being. 
One illustration was that of a fertile field when it by some need had 
been flooded with water and for years had presented a dreary 



2 4 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

waste so far as vegetation was concerned, which drained of the 
water immediately showed signs of life in the dormant seeds 
which sprang into full life, and the once disused swamp became 
again a flowering garden, showing the persistence of inherited and 
individual characteristics. 

At present we feel that our homes are covered with a flood of 
commercial ideas. When these are drained off we have full hope 
that the best kind of home will emerge. Again, the eyeless 
fishes found in caves have degenerated because they have stayed 
under these conditions of darkness. Their neighbors who made 
their way out in time have developed normally. The lesson is 
that we should get out of the degrading conditions before we are 
trapped by the changes, mechanical and social which are coming 
upon us. 

Every company of agitators in convention assembled claims to 
have the most important topics to present, but this group 
gathered today under the auspices, we might almost say of the 
Father of His Country, in sight of that shaft of hght and hope which 
must mean to all of us faith in the future, this group really is 
deahng with the life of the nation. 

For we can not have a free country without homes of nuture 
for citizens, we cannot have homes without ideals and very few of 
us can maintain ideals on bread and water with bare boards and 
worn out clothes. 

Physical comforts may smother ideals, if excessive, but the 
law of progress demands at least enough physical well being to 
allow of freedom from galling tryanny of daily want. , 

In this country we have wealth and opportunity, but our 
ideals seem to be sadly mixed, or wanting altogether. "Home is 
where I hangs my hat" says the boy, "Home is where my dishes 
is" says the girl of the tenement district. Nomads we have be- 
come with barbarian habits rather than with American ideals./ 

Nine-tenths of the money spent is said to go into the so-called 
homes of the land — with what result? The family home in 
which every inmate has a share is fast disappearing, selfishness 
rules from prince to pauper. The inventor who can induce a 
quarter of the housewives to buy his potato parer makes a huge 
fortune and one-seventh of the potato goes to the pigs. This is 
the way the cost of living rises. 



1909] Organization of Home Economics Association 25 

Something new every month, some change keeps men, woman 
and child in a watchful, restless condition. So long as the family- 
home afforded a refuge for ten or twelve hours in the day this 
effect was not noticeable, but today there is no longer peace or 
rest in the family shelter (roof they have none, only another 
family over them) . 

Home economics demands a study of ways and means to main- 
tain a training school for good citizens at a cost within the reach 
of all. It is not so much money as ideas and ideals we need. 
Can a young man marry on $1000 a year with a reasonable hope 
of success in his venture? It depends on the ideals they both 
have and what a home means to them and on their sense of values. 

This sense of what is worth while in living is to be insensibly 
cultivated in school for the great majority who have not the 
right kind of homes and it is in these lines of what is worth striv- 
ing for that we need just such an authoritative association as we 
are forming. AVe are stemming a tide. I hope we are not sweep- 
ing back the ocean with a broom — an ocean of fashion, of com- 
mercial exploitation, of mercantile temptation. We need to band 
together and reinforce each other. Like the newsboys we need 
something to shout in the streets to attract attention and if we 
say it was done in Wyoming it will attract attention in New York 
and Boston quicker than if we said we had done it there, while 
Iowa and Nebraska are listening for suggestions from Philadelphia 
and Washington. Such is human nature. 

The subject has so many phases, embraces so many arts and 
sciences that it is discouraging to the beginner in the work and 
especially so to the school man who is waylaid with a demand 
for thousands of dollars for what he firmly believes should be still 
taught at home. We need to come together and agree upon an 
orderly progression of subjects which react upon the character 
of the child as well as give him facility with his hands or impetus 
towards habits of right living. 

A great step in humaniculture is made when people from dif- 
ferent sections agree on the fundamental child and his needs. 
This gives something to work fiom into special lines. 

It is evident that the beginning must be made early and that 
each step must follow a well placed previous one in order that 
time be not wasted and lessons contradicted. I verily believe 
that a chief reason why our education is so confessedly ineffective 



26 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

is because the mind is distracted by so many attempts to direct 
its attention now to this, now to that. 

Home economics aims to focus all on daily living, doing one's 
duty at the time and not looking over one's shoulder for a gift. 
To revive the pleasure of doing well what is done, and perhaps, 
more than all to give a belief in the nobleness of this body of ours 
without which the soul cannot express itself and so show that 
money and time are well spent only when they minister to a 
fuller development of both. 

Mrs. Richards. We have the great pleasure of listening to words 
of wisdom from Dr. Elmer E. Brown, Commissioner of Education 
of thd United States. 

Commissioner Brown. Madam President, Ladies and Gentle- 
men: The Secretary of the Interior, Secretary Garfield, who is 
very warmly interested in our educational work, has been desirous 
of accepting the invitation of the Association to come and say a 
few words before you this morning. He has recently telephoned 
to me, however, that his work is crowding him so much this 
morning that it is extremely doubtful whether he will be able to 
come in. He will do so later in the session if it is possible for 
him to do so. I know the very warm interest that Secretary 
Garfield feels in our educational work generally, and am sure that 
if he could find it possible to come to this meeting he would do so. 

I think we are pretty generally agreed that our educational 
work has been too much concentrated upon that which is bookish. 
If we divide our educational field in the rough we would say that 
our education has to deal with the body, and the intellect, and 
the things moral, things of value. Roughly speaking, we find it 
convenient to divide it off in that way. There can be very little 
doubt, I think, that the most of our schools traditionally have 
concentrated their work upon the second of these three terms. 
They have devoted themselves to that which is intelligent, that 
which is bookish, and since it is easiest to continue that which is 
once begun, have gone on doing work of that same kind instead 
of seeing clearly the essential relationships of that intelligent work 
with the soundness of the body on the one side and the soundness 
of the moral life on the other side. There is no one thing that is 
more characteristic of the newer educational methods in this 
country than the attempt to get the school to reach out to those 
territories that are outlying territories, viewed from that purely 



1909] Organization of Home Economics Association 27 

intellectual point of view. It is a significant fact that our more 
recent educational movements are taking much more adequate 
account of the body on the one hand, and of the supreme concern 
of human life, or moral life, upon the other hand. I feel an 
especial interest in the work that you are doing here for the reason 
that it seems an effective way of reaching out from that traditional 
center of our educational work, or our scholastic work, and mak- 
ing really effective connections with the interests of our physical 
life on the one hand, and the interests of our moral life upon the 
other hand, and so I look upon such a meeting as this as closely 
related to such a meeting as the great Tuberculosis Congress that 
mcit here in Washington some time ago. A very large part of the 
propaganda that is now undertaken not only for the prevention of 
tuberculosis, but in a much larger way for the prevention of 
diseases, and the positive building up of health in our American 
citizenship, a very large part of that propaganda can be most 
effectn-ely worked out through the Home Economics Associa- 
tion. You are doing something in a very positive way to make 
the home life better ; are preparing for some of the most effective 
of the possible efforts for the improvement of the health of our 
people. I do not think that that side of your work is to be 
ignored. I do not think that in reaching out for the things that 
are larger and better and more significant, you should forget the 
fact that the simple work in good cookery and in home hygiene, 
that constitutes no small part of your interests, is of tremendous 
consequence for our American home. For we want not only to 
have a citizenship in this country that is free from disease, but 
we want to have a citizenship that is positively strong and 
vigorous and prepared for the severer tests that the twentieth cen- 
tury is going to put upon our bodies. And so the work that you 
are doing here upon that side seems to me of great significance 
for our education, and all significant for our National life. 

I cannot help thinking that the really great significance of your 
work, after all, is moral. Your meeting here really finds its 
warmth of interest in the fact that such work as you are planning 
for is the work of making more attractive and wholesome homes 
— is a work that is going to uplift the moral life of our people. 
You cannot stop short of that highest consideration, and you do 
not wish to stop short of it. It is very clear, I think, that some 
of the gravest dangers that threaten the moral life of this people. 



28 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

not only of our individual citizens, but the moral life of our 
body politic, are dangers that have to do with the readjustment 
of the home to modern conditions. Whatever you shall do for 
the making of a better home life is going to be an effective 
agency of correcting this dangerous tendency in our American 
life. You are going to make it possible to make more com- 
fortable homes, to make more attractive homes. All that is 
significant. But you are going to do vastly more than that. 
You are going to make the home life interv sting. You are going 
to make the very question and problem of making a good home 
life a thing in which the people in the home will be interested. I 
have never seen people who were thoroughly interested in seeing 
how good homes they could make, follow it to such an extent that 
they had to seek the divorce court. To get heartily interested 
in the making of the home life! That of itself is a moral safe- 
guard, and in furthering that kind of interest you are doing the 
work for which our whole country should thank you. /• 

I should be very soriy to believe that such work as this 
meant an abandonment of the intellectual fundamentals of edu- 
cation which had their beginning in scholastic endeavor, — a 
going out from the intellectual center of our school life to the 
physical side and the moral side, and forgetting that from which 
we started. 

As I understand your work, it is nothing of that sort, but the 
very significance of your work, to begin with, consists in this, 
that you are putting ideas, and organized ideas, into this work 
of making good homes; that is, you are proceeding organically. 
I wonder if, in your excursions into the psychology of your sub- 
ject, you have even yet wrought out the full significance of this 
fact, that people are interested in doing the things that they can 
do well, and the things upon which they really exercise their 
minds, the things that have in them ideas and skill that the 
persons concerned are able to exercise. These things become 
exceedingly interesting. I have known young people who 
would night after night make fudge with the greatest of interest, 
because fudge was the one thing that they knew how to cook. 
But I have known other people who made a good many other 
things with the keenest sort of delight because they knew that 
they could make them well. / The mere fact ofhaving confidence 
in one's ability to do the things well is a significant fact. Now, 



iqoq] Organization of Home Economics Association 29 

when you couple with that skill in doing things, enough ideas so 
that one feels that one is really taking part in the intellectual life 
of his time while he is doing ordinary and simple duties, you 
have one of the strongest pedagogical combinations. To put 
ideas and the real possession of skill into the making of 
a better home life, that is an ideal that you ha\'e before you in a 
way that is of great significance, and I am sure that all who are 
interested in the educational work of this country wish you well 
— wish you the largest measure of success in your undertaking. / 

Mrs. Richards. We all appreciate what the Department of 
Agriculture has done and the help that they have given us in 
their bulletins and in their scientific investigations. There is no 
other department of the government that has begun to meet the 
needs of teachers of Home Economics as the Department of Agri- 
culture has, and I am sure the people here will be very glad to 
hear a few words from Dr. True who has been our most constant 
and earnest friend. 

Dr. True. Madam President, Ladies and Gentlemen: I am 
sorry that I am somewhat lonesome here, as a representative of 
the Department of Agriculture, this morning to hear the kind 
words which Mrs. Richards has spoken concerning our work. I 
had hoped that Mr. Pinchot, our forester, would be here to keep 
me company and to speak to you, because I know that he has 
very great interest in the work that you are doing, and I am sure 
he w^ould have an important and interesting message for you. He 
would have been here today had not President Roosevelt called 
him away to perform another duty which seemed to be urgent. 

Honored as I have been with an invitation to speak at the first 
annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association, I 
have come, I trust, with some appreciation of the importance of 
the enterprise in which you are engaged. 

It has been my fortune to go up and down this country for a 
number of years, and thus to see something of the development 
of this movement. And so, when I come to speak to you this 
morning it is easy for me to see back of this assembly here the 
seven hundred teachers and other people who have agreed to join 
your organization, the great group of universities, colleges and 
schools in which the subjects that you are interested in are 
taught, the thousands of children and young people who are 
receiving instruction along these lines, and the great mass of 



30 llic Jonrnul of Home Economics [Feb. 

intelligent people throughout the country who are desiring more 
and more accurate and helpful information which will enable 
them to make better homes. 

This is indeed a great movement, and one that is growing 
rapidly, and yet it has lacked those elements of coherence and 
coordination which I think are very necessary to its best develop- 
ment. It has been thus far largely a local and concentrated 
movement in which people here and there in the different com- 
munities have engaged. And, therefore, it is a matter of great 
importance that you have come together here at this time to 
form this National organization, so that this great movement 
may have a rallying point, a forum for the discussion of great 
problems involved in it, a means of bringing all the widely scat- 
tered groups of workers together in sympathy and in mutual 
helpfulness. It is true that you have already had the influence 
of the Lake Placid Conference, and I have known something of 
the usefulness of its work. But I have felt that it could never 
take the place that can easily be taken by this organization, be- 
cause this great mov^ement spreading out through all our country 
needed a public association broadly supported to carry on the 
great work of a central organization. And it seems to me that 
you have chosen for the formation of this organization an un- 
usually auspicious time, for we have come, in this country, to one 
of the great critical periods in our history. I doubt whether any 
of us appreciate as fully as we ought the nature and significance 
of these passing days. 

There has been reference this morning to the great celebration 
yesterday at Baltimore of the Centenary of Darwin's birth. If 
you had come to this city a hundred years ago you would have 
found here an undeveloped capital of an undeveloped country, 
a weak nation, drifting apparently into what might be a fatal 
conflict with the mother country. If you had come here fifty 
years ago you would have come to the half-de\eloped capital of a 
half-developed country, a nation rent with internal strife and 
drifting apparently into dismemberment and ruin. Since then 
we have had a period of unexampled development and prosperity. 
The nation has grown rich and strong and united. It has not 
only developed its own resources with astonishing rapidity, and 
filled its territory with great niultitudes of people, but it has 
stretched out and brought within the protection of our flag vast 



1909] Organization of Home Economics Association 31 

regions in the frozen north and in the warm tropics. It has 
brought under our influence great multitudes of alien peoples of 
numerous nationalities and races. 

We have seemed to be at the high-tide of prosperity and 
influence, but right in the midst of this there has been struck by 
our wise men a note of alarm. At this very time when you are 
met here to form this organization our people, led by their 
greatest men and women, have become suddenly serious and 
thoughtful, and even fearful of the future. We have piled up 
wealth almost without measure, but now the question has arisen 
wheth5r this is simply that this great wealth shall come into the 
hands of a few people and be used for the corruption and the ruin 
of our National life. We have brought together under the best 
influences in many ways great masses of people, but now the 
question has arisen whether we can maintain among these people 
a good home life. We have used our national resources and 
developed them with great skill, but now the question has arisen 
whether we are so rapidly using them up that they will all be 
gone within a few years. 

What is done among us in the next few years will, therefore, be 
of the very greatest importance as determining whether we shall 
go on as a nation to greater success or enter upon a period of 
decline and fall. 

Among the questions that are engaging our thought and at- 
tention today, certainly none is more important than that which 
centers about the problems of our homes. Can we maintain 
them as the pure source and happy environment of a vigorous 
childhood ; can we keep them as the satisfactory supporters and 
encouragers of manhood and womanhood ; can we hold them as 
the sure solace and refuge of old age ? Shall the American home 
go on to greater perfection or shall it weaken and lose its hold upon 
our people? Shall we become simply a vast mass of unrelated 
individuals? It is this problem that your Association and the 
people whom you represent have especially taken as your work. 
Not that you are the only organization engaged in this work, for 
there are many others which are doing noble and useful work. 
But as you represent very largely the educational element work- 
ing for the solution of the problems of the home, there is every 
reason why your organization should take a leading position in 
the effort to help our homes. For, under the care of the colleges 



32 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

and schools of our country are to come the young people who 
are to be leaders in whatever movements or whatever organiza- 
tions there may be to deal with these great problems. And so I 
think that it is very important that you should have met here at 
this time to form this organization, to plan its work, and to con- 
sider what may be done to broaden the interest of our people in 
this movement for the maintenance and betterment of the home. 

If I might be permitted, I would like very briefly to suggest 
some of the lines of work which, it seems to me, it would be well 
for you to engage in as an organization. I presume to do this 
because I have been for a number of years in quite close touch 
with this movement, though I have occupied, in a way, the 
position of an interested observer rather than of a professional 
worker in the cause. 

It seems to me that there are three great lines of endeavor in 
which such an organization as this may properly engage : First, 
you may do much to promote the increase of knowledge of the 
subjects with which you deal; second, you may do a great deal 
to help and improve the system of education along these lines; 
and in the third place, you may do a great work towards securing 
the more satisfactory diffusion of information on these subjects 
among the masses of our people. 

In this movement, as in all similar movements, the fundamen- 
tal requirement is exact and satisfactory knowledge of the sub- 
jects involved in the movement. Research, then, should be 
prosecuted in a vigorous and comprehensive manner, in order 
that we may know the truth, and that that may be the basis of 
all our endeavors. Thus far there has been very little of ac- 
curate, strong and comprehensive research along these lines, and 
the agencies for such work are extremely inadequate. Most of 
the work that has been done has been done incidentally in con- 
nection with other enterprises, and the interest of the workers 
has been largely a divided interest. We need, therefore, to 
have public and private funds which may be devoted earnestly 
and exclusively to definite researches in the field of home eco- 
nomics, and I certainly hope that this organization will under- 
take to help in securing such funds and the establishment of 
adequate research agencies along these lines. 

Then the system of education in home economics is only in its 
formative stage. The lines and methods of work have only 



1909] Organization of Home Economics Association ^li 

been roughly blocked out as yet. There needs to be much 
study and much effort to perfect this system, to give it high 
pedagogical value, to put it in a position to find its proper place 
in our general educational system. Such an organization as this 
can perform a very great service by undertaking and promoting 
definite studies for the perfection of instruction in home eco- 
nomics both in the colleges, in the high schools, and in the 
elementary schools. 

Finally, we are coming in all lines of educational effort to see 
that it is not enough that we should have a satisfactory system of 
education for the people who go to school, but that we must 
reach out beyond the schools and by various methods, which are 
sometimes embraced under the general head of university exten- 
sion work, reach the masses of people so that they may have 
some intelligent conception of what is involved in such matters 
as these you are interested in, and shall have brought to them 
some definite and satisfactory information which may help them 
in their daily lives. This in itself is a great enterprise, and it is 
one, which in this country, we have only begun in a very 
fragmentary and feeble way. It is true, we have a large number 
of organizations of various sorts — women's clubs, farmers' 
institutes, social settlements — but, after all, they have thus far 
only reached a very few people compared with the mass that need 
to be reached, and the information that has been brought in this 
way has been very inadequate and in many respects unsatis- 
factory. One thing that we have learned in the Department of 
Agriculture and in our agricultural colleges and experiment sta- 
tions in recent years is, that we can not do what we ought to help 
the mass of our rural people by simply sending publications to 
them. However useful these may be, however well prepared 
and illuminating they may be, they, after all, will not make an 
adequate impression upon the average man and woman. To 
make the work that we are engaged in really effective, we must 
carry it out to the people through the Hving teacher, and that 
teacher must be provided with the means of actually demonstrat- 
ing to the people the things that he desires to teach. And so we 
are having the organization of various kinds of demonstration 
work. 

I have spoken of these three great lines of work because I think 
that through them your Association may find satisfactory and 



34 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

stimulating means of building up a strong organization, and of 
doing a great and vital work for the benefit of all our people. 
You ought to be greatly encouraged by the interest that has been 
shown in this meeting and in the responses that you have had 
to your invitation to unite with you in forming this organization. 
It certainly gives those of us who are looking on and who are 
interested in this work very much pleasure and encouragement 
that you have started so well. We feel sure that it means that 
there is going to be so much interest and activity in this work 
that you are surely and rapidly to become a strong and useful 
organization. 

Following Dr. True's address, the president called on Hon. 
Charles R. Davis, the author of the "Davis Bill" for extending 
federal aid to secondary education in agriculture, mechanics arts 
and home economics. Mr. Davis explained the origin of the bill 
and its general provision and urged the members of the Associa- 
tion to organize local support for it. 

The president next called upon Mr. John Hamilton, Supervisor 
of Farmers Institutes in the U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
who spoke especially of the needs of the country home. He said 
in part: 

John Hamilton. Before you can go to work effectively for 
rural betterment you must secure some kind of an organization in 
each community. You must get a few women together in these 
communities, and tell them what you are proposing to do for them. 
That has been done in some countries. In Ontario they have 
over four hundred women's clubs in the Province with a mem- 
bership of more than 12,000. They meet every month and talk 
over the things in which they are interested, — their children, 
their home life, and all that. These clubs are doing wonderful 
things for the women of that Province. 

Then you must have something to teach them. You cannot 
go before these women with generalities. Glittering generalities 
are often inspiring and all that, but these women need to know 
first of all how to do some things so as to lighten their labor, im- 
prove their methods and beautify their homes. 

If you can simply go and tell country people how to put a 
bathroom into every house in the United States you will have 
justified your organization over and over again. They want to 
know how better to care for their children. They want to 



1909] Organization of Home Economics Association 35 

know how to live themselves, hov.' their intellectual and spiritual 
life may be best improved. 

The help you are going to give them must be sympathetic and 
must fit their conditions; you must have information that is 
definite, appropriate and really helpful. If it is not all of these 
the meeting may be very pleasant and all that, but it is a waste 
of time so far as affording real aid to the rural housewife is con- 
cerned. This means you must first of all make a very careful 
study of country conditions. We do not seem to know what the 
actual conditions in the rural districts are and consequently we 
have a great Commission going all over this country trying to 
find out. 

We are trying some of us to reach the country people, — the 
country homes. We find that literature does not do it. It 
takes a living teacher. How are we to get to the man we want 
to help with a living teacher and to the woman who is busy in her 
home who cannot go away to school? How can information that 
has been accumulating during all of these years be put into such 
shape as to be teachable, and be taken and explained to the busy 
country woman so that she can use it, even to the point of 
giving a practical demonstration in her home ? 

We have started to do that in the Department of Agriculture 
through what we call for lack of a better term, a Movable School, 
not a fixed school, but a school on wheels that comes into a 
community, and takes a dozen or fifteen women experienced in 
household affairs and puts them in a class with a thoroughly 
competent teacher in charge. One course of study has already 
been prepared that will take about a month to complete, in which 
the scholars will be taught a single subject, simply how to prepare 
cereal foods. We ought to have another course on teaching how 
to prepare meats; another in household architecture, decoration, 
sanitation and that sort of thing. These schools are intended to 
come and stay in a community for two or perhaps three weeks, 
organize a class of the brightest and best women in the com- 
munity, and teach them how to do one thing and do it so well, 
that when the school leaves they will be able not only to follow 
for themselves the suggestions that have been made, but teach 
their less progressive sisters as well. 

The points therefore that I have tried to present are: first, 
an organization of women in every community; next, something 



36 Titc Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

appropriate and helpful to teach; and then, a school in which to 
teach it with an expert and sympathetic teacher in control. 
With such an organization in active operation in every State the 
problem of the betterment of country homes in the United States 
will be practically solved and the actual uplift of rural life in 
America will have begun. 

The president next called on Mrs. Mary H. Abel of Baltimore. 

Mrs. Abel. Those whom I have known in the Lake Placid 
Conference know how we have all worked toward the ends we 
see in sight this morning. Although that which does not reach 
an immediate and practical end is sometimes a failure there is, 
nevertheless, far reaching educational work which always has to 
be planned, and ten years ago when the Lake Placid Conference 
started, that fact was recognized. Though the immediate effect 
was not so great, nevertheless in the years during which the 
Lake Placid Conference was meeting, the forces were growing 
which are now at the basis of this great organization. 

In attempting to aid in practical things we must remember 
the city woman as well as the country woman, for in many 
respects, her way has great difficulties. I feel that there are 
three things necessary in every large community: First, a 
laundry operated by experts where no injurious and destructive 
chemicals will be used; second, a cook shop, or a public kitchen, 
in w^hich the basis of the meal can be bought ready cooked ; third, 
an employment bureau in the hands of ladies and run for the 
benefit of the community and not to keep servants going from 
one place to another, but an employment office in which work 
can be gotten by the day and hour. 

The president then called on Mrs. Olaf N. Guldlin of Fort 
Wayne, Indiana, Chairman of the Home Economics Depart- 
ment of the Federation of Women's Clubs, who spoke regarding 
the advancement of home economics among the 800,000 women 
in the women's clubs of the United States. 

By motion, it was voted that a committee be appointed by the 
chair to visit the Secretary of Agriculture and convey the respects 
of the Association. The chair appointed Miss Emma S. Jacobs 
of Washington, chairman of the committee. 

By motion, the president was directed to appoint a committee 
on resolutions of acknowledgment. Miss Maria Parloa was 
appointed chairman of the committee. 



1909] Organization of Home Economics Association 37 

On motion, adjournment was taken until the afternoon. 
Afternoon Session, Saturday, January 2, igog. 

The convention was called to order at 2.30 by the president, 
Mrs. Richards, who called for the report of the committee on 
constitution and by-laws. 

Miss Marlatt, for the committee, presented the completed con- 
stitution and by-laws which were then read, section by section, 
and, after amendment in certain cases, were finally adopted by 
unanimous vote in the form entered herein at the end of these 
minutes. 

The president called upon Professor Monroe of the Department 
of Chemistry, and Professor Veditz of the Department of Eco- 
nomics, of George Washington University who brought to the 
Association the greetings of the University, and spoke of the 
close relations between their departments of study and the 
subject matter of home economics. 

The president called for the report of the committee on 
nominations for members of the council and for members of the 
permanent committee on nominations. 

Miss Anna Barrows, as chairman of the committee, presented 
the report of the committee which, by motion was adopted and 
the secretary was directed by unanimous vote to cast a ballot 
for the persons nominated. The following were declared duly 
elected : 

For Councilors at Large. 

For one year; Miss Josephine Berry, Illinois; Miss Helen Kinne, 
New York; Miss Mamie Gearing, Texas; Miss Catharine A. Mulligan, 
Florida; Mr. G. A. Putnam, Ontario. 

For two years; Mr. W. H. Elson, Ohio; Mrs. Olaf X. Guldlin, Indiana; 
Miss Emma S. Jacobs, Washington, D. C; Miss Minna Stoner, Wyoming; 
Mrs. Mar>' Schenck Woolman, New York. 

For three years; Miss Rosa Bouton, Nebraska; Miss Caroline L. 
Hunt, Wisconsin; Dr. Simon Patten, Pennsylvania; Miss Emma Smedley, 
Pennsylvania; Mrs .Mary E. Williams, New York. 

For four years; Miss Edna Day, Missouri; Dr. George M. Kober. 
Washington, D. C; Miss Abby L. Marlatt, Rhode Island; Dr. Lafayette 
B. Mendel, Connecticut; Miss Mary S. Snow, New York. 

For five years: Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Maryland; Miss Sarah Louise 
Arnold, Massachusetts; Mr. GifTord Pinchot, Washington, D. C; Mrs. 
Alice P. Norton, Illinois; Miss Ellen C. Sabin, Wisconsin. 



^8 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Members of the Permanent Committee on Nominations. 

Miss Ruth Warden of Ohio, for one year. 

Mr. Maurice LeBosquet of lUinois, for two years. 

Miss Anna Laird, of Ontario, Canada, for three years. 

Dr. Henry C. Sherman of New York, for four years. 

Miss Marian Talbot of Illinois, for five years. 

It was, on motion, voted that the executive committee be in- 
structed to draw up and send to President Roosevelt, a letter 
expressing the appreciation of this Association, of all that he has 
said and done looking toward the improvement of the American 
home. 

The president called for the report of the committee appointed 
to call upon Secretary Wilson. 

Miss Jacobs. The committee presented the following ver- 
bal message to Secretary Wilson: 

"The American Home Economics Association thanks 3'ou for your 
words of greeting and encouragement received this morning and regrets 
that official duties prevented 3'our giving them in person. 

The Association with its 700 charter members further thanks you for 
all you have done to help educate the home maker, and especially for the 
publication of Farmers' Bulletins and Bulletins reporting nutrition 
investigations, and other matters pertaimng to home life. 

The Association stands ready to cooperate with you in all wise 
measures having for their object Home Betterment." 

The Secretary seemed very much pleased to receive the com- 
mittee. He talked along the lines of the provisions of the Davis 
bill and the work that is to be done by this Association. He 
spoke about the work in the west, in the different sections of the 
south, but his main thought seemed to be that there are not 
teachers, and that we would have first to educate teachers 
before home economics could be introduced in a widespread way 
as, for example, proposed by the "Davis Bill." 

The president called for the report of the Committee on Legis- 
lation. Miss Snow, as chairman, presented the report of the 
committee which, after amendment, was adopted unanimously 
as follows : 

"Resolved: that this Committee heartily commends the 
general provisions of House of Representatives Bill, 18402, 
known as the "Davis Bill." for its attempt at equalization and 
extension of educational opportunities in agriculture, mechanics 
arts and home economics throughout the land, and urges that the 
active influence of the American Home Economics Association 
be directed toward the enactment of some measure looking to 
the carrying out of such provisions. 



1909] Organization of Home Economics Association 39 

"Resolved: that the experimentation and research work in 
nutrition by the Department of Agriculture receive the en- 
couragement and endorsement of this Association, and that 
liberal provision be urged for the publication of bulletins report- 
ing such work." 

The president called for the report of the committee on resolu- 
tions of acknowledgment. Miss Maria Parloa, chairman, pre- 
sented the following report which was unanimously adopted : 

The American Home Economics Association, in closing its first conven- 
tion at Washington, D. C, December 31-January 2, 1908-9, extends its 
cordial appreciation to all who have contributed to making the meeting a 
success; especially to all who have taken an active part in the arrange- 
ments and proceedings of the conferences, namely, 

1. The local committee. Dr. Langworthy and Miss Jacobs for their 
most satisfactory and agreeable arrangements for the comfort and pleasure 
of the visitors. 

2. The Superintendent of Schools, Principal Myers and Miss Jacobs, 
for the opening of the McKinley Manual Training High School, for making 
arrangements and for attending to details of the meetings of the American 
Home Economics Association 

3. Mrs. Xeely of the Neighborhood House for courtesy of hospitality 

4. Professor Dow for his attractive illustrated lecture on the House- 
hold Arts 

5. The teachers of Domestic Science and Art of the Washington 
Public Schools for the delightful reception enjoyed by all present Thurs- 
day evening, December 31st 

6. The National School of Domestic Science and Arts for the courtesy 
of opening the School for inspection 

7. The authorities of George Washington University for hospitality in 
opening the building for meetings of the American Home Economics 
Association on January 2d. 

8. Mr. B. T. Galloway, Bureau of Plant Industry, for the effective 
decoration at the McKinley High School and George Washington Uni- 
versity during the meetings of the Association 

9. Mrs. Henderson, through the Housekeepers Alliance, for her 
interest and delightful reception on the afternoon of January 2d 

10. The various speakers, namely, Ass't Secretary Hays, Commissioner 
of Education Dr. Elmer E. Brown, Dr. True Director of Experiment Sta- 
tions, Representative Davis, Mr. Hamilton Sup't. of Farmers Institutes,. 
Professor Monroe and Professor Veditz, also to Mr. Gifford Pinchot for his 
message of regret at necessary absence on government duty 

11. Miss Daish of the Office of Experiment Stations of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, for contributing a stenographic report of the sessions 
of the Association 

12. Mr. McKee of Hotel Gordon, where the Association made its head- 
quarters, for his personal interest in the comfort of guests. 

By motion, at 4.30 p. m., January 2, the first convention of the 
American Home Economics Association adjourned sine die. 



CONSTITUTION OF AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

ARTICLE I 
Name 
The name of this organization shall be the American Home Economics 
Association. 

ARTICLE II 
Object 

1. The object of this Association shall be to improve the conditions of 
living in the home, the institutional household and the community. 

2. Specifically this Association shall aim to advance its purpose: 
By the study of problems connected with the household; 

By securing recognition of subjects related to the home in the curricula 
of existing schools and colleges; 

By securing the establishment and standardization of professional 
courses and schools for the training of teachers, and of home, institutional, 
social and municipal workers; 

By encouraging and aiding investigations and research in universities, 
and by the State and Federal governments; 

By publications professional and popular, and by meetings local and 
national, that knowledge may be increased, and especially that public 
opinion may be informed and advancement made secure by legislative 
enactment. 

ARTICLE III 
Membership 

I. All who are actively interested in home problems are eligible to 
membership in the Association, including: 

All professionally concerned with this field as teachers of Domestic 
Science and Art, Home and Institutional Economics and allied educational 
fields, students, investigators, housekeepers, institution managers, social 
and municipal workers; interested housewives and homemakers; pro- 
fessional workers in allied fields, as educators, physicians, hygienists, 
sanitary experts, architects, and others; clubs, associations, societies and 
institutions interested in the work of this Association. 

ARTICLE IV 
Officers 

1. The officers shall consist of a president, three vice-presidents, a 
secretary-treasurer, an executive committee and a council. 

2. The president, three vice-presidents, and secretary-treasurer shall be 
elected at the annual meeting and shall serve one year. 

3. The council shall consist of three classes of members: (i) The five 
elected officers, as above specified; (2) twenty-five councilors-at-large, 
chosen at the annual meeting for rotating tenns of five years, so arranged 
that five councilors shall be chosen each year after the first; (3) repre- 
sentative councilors, chosen for a term of one year, one from each local 
society, which includes in its membership at least ten paid members of the 
American Home Economics Association. Any local society ha\-ing over 

40 



1909] Constitution and By-Laws 41 

100 paid members in the American Home Economics Association shall be 
entitled to one councilor for each 100 such members or fraction thereof. 

4. The executive committee shall consist of the elected officers and five 
councilors-at-large. 

ARTICLE V 
Meetings 
I . There shall be an annual meeting of the Association at such time and 
place as the executive committee shall determine. 

ARTICLE VI 
Journal 
I. The Association shall issue a professional journal which shall be the 
property of the Association, and shall be sent to members as a privilege of 
membership. 

ARTICLE VII 
Incorporation 
I. The Association shall become incorporated. 

ARTICLE VIII 
Amendments 
I. This constitution may be amended by a vote of two-thirds of the 
members present at any meeting, provided that notice of the proposed 
amendment be given in due form, at the preceding annual meeting. 

BY-LAWS. 

ARTICLE I 
Election of Officers 

A nominating committee consisting of five members shall be elected by 
the Association for rotating terms of five years, so arranged that one mem- 
ber shall be elected each year, after the first. 

This committee shall prepare printed ballots subject to suggestion from 
members. 

Election shall be by majority voting. 

ARTICLE II 
Duties of Officers 

Section i . The president and vice-presidents shall have the duties usually 
pertaining to such offices. 

Sec. II. (i) The secretary-treasurer shall as treasurer give bonds for all 
funds intrusted, and shall submit annual reports of receipts and expendi- 
tures, with vouchers. Money shall be paid only on the order of the chair- 
man of the finance committee. 

(2) The secretary-treasurer shall as secretary, preserve the records of 
the Association; shall maintain at the office a library of books and 
pamphlets and other material relating to the field of the Association; shall 
endeavor to increase the membership of the Association, and shall develop 
its relations with affiliated societies. 

Sec. III. (i) The council shall meet one day before the annual meeting 
and continue in session as necessary thereafter. 



4 2 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

(2) It shall have supervision of the business of the Association and' 
shall pass upon matters submitted to it by the executive committee. 

(3) It shall elect from its members the five members who with the 
president, vice-presidents and secretary-treasurer, form the executive 
committee. 

(4) It may fill for the year any vacancies which may occur in its mem- 
bership. 

Sec. IV. (i) The executive committee shall manage the business of the 
Association in the intervals between meetings. It shall appoint standing 
committees and fill such vacancies in office, with the exception of president, 
as may occur between annual meetings. 

(2) It shall constitute the board who will hold the property of the 
Association, including the Journal, and be responsible for its publication. 

(3) It shall arrange the time and place of the annual meeting. 

(4) A meeting of this committee may be called at any time by the presi- 
dent of the Association. Five members shall constitute a quorum. 

ARTICLE III 
Membership 
Anyone who is elected by the executive committee becomes a member 
upon payment of dues. 

Members shall consist of four kinds: 

(i) Annual — dependent on payment of dues, two dollars ($2.00) at 
annual meeting. Failure to pay dues within one month thereafter will 
cancel membership and subscription for Association publications. 

(2) Life membership — dependent on payment of fifty dollars ($50.00). 

(3) Patrons — those who contribute one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). 

(4) Honorary membership shall consist of those whom the Association 
wishes to honor for exceptional service in any lines of work for which the 
Association stands. 

The last three shall be exempt from annual dues. 

ARTICLE IV 

Committees 

The standing committees shall perform any work in their subject that 

may be assigned to them by the council or the executive committee. 

They shall report at the annual meeting or from time to time, as seems 

advisable. 

ARTICLE V 
Amendments 
These by-laws may be amended by a vote of two-thirds of the members 
present at any meeting, provided that notice of the proposed amendment 
be given in due form at least one month in advance. 

ARTICLE VI 
Business shall be conducted according to Roberts' Rules of Order. 

(Signed) Benjamin R. -Andrews, 
Secretary, American Home Economics Association. 



I 



THE FACTORS AND COST OF BOARD ON MINNESOTA 

FARMS.i 

Thomas P. Cooper, 

Minnesota Agricultural Experiment Station. 

In 1902, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture W. M. Hays, then 
Agriculturist at the Minnesota Experiment Station, inaugurated 
a system of obtaining statistically the cost of producing farm 
products from the private farm. 

At first the plan was to ascertain merely the labor expended on 
the farm for all purposes. This was to be classified and a rate of 
wages per hour established which would enable the data to be 
presented in money value. It was soon found that a theoretical 
wage was unsatisfactory and that in order to obtain the actual 
cost to the farmer of performing his various field operations, all 
the factors of cost weie necessary. 

The cost of labor on the farm is composed of the money wage 
paid and the cost of board, as in practically all cases the laborer 
is boarded on the farm, in addition to the wages received. Hence 
it was necessary to extend the scope of the investigation to include 
the farm home. Each item entering into or affecting the cost of 
board was charged against a household account, either at its 
actual cost, if purchased, or at the market or arbitrarily fixed 
prices, if produced on the farm. The labor of the women in pre- 
paring the food and caring for the house was charged at the pre- 
vailing rates for labor of that class on farms in the immediate 
vicinity. This rate varied from $2.50 to S5.00 per week, depend- 
ing upon the locality and season of the year. 

Method of Work: The so-called statistical routes were 
established in three localities in Minnesota, and typified our three 
principal forms of agriculture. One was located in South- 
eastern Minnesota near Northfield; one in Southwestern Minne- 
sota, near Marshall, and another in Northwestern Minnesota 
near Halstad. From eight to ten farms were included on each 
route. 



'This paper was read at the Washington Convention of the American 
Home Economics Association, and is here printed, by courtesy of Assistant 
Secretary' of Agriculture, Willet M. Hays. 

43 



44 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb, 

Each household on the route was furnished monthly with a card 
ruled for each day in the month, with headings for the various 
items of farm produce generally obtained from the farm. A 
space was reserved on the right hand side for such miscellaneous 
items as should be reported. The classification was as follows: 
eggs, cream, milk, beef, pork, poultry and butter. The quanti- 
ties used were reported under the various heads in the units in 
ordinary use. At the expiration of the month the cards were 
collected by a route statistician, footed and forwarded to the 
central office, where the items were converted into money values 
and placed on the farm account. 

It will be noticed that no attempt has been made to obtain the 
quantity of vegetables and garden truck that are generally used 
in the house. At one time an effort was made to secure such 
data, but the women on the farms, with whom the work was 
necessarily carried on , refused to aid in the work or to report the 
quantities of smaller truck, as lettuce, radishes, peas, beans, and 
other vegetables, consumed by the family. The objection raised 
was that it required too much time and attention upon the part 
of the busy housewife to attend to these matters. A method 
was then devised by which a proper charge might be made to the 
house for such products used. It was assumed that the value of 
a farmer's garden to him was an equivalent of the rental value of 
the land, cost of the man or horse labor used in caring for it, and 
such items of cash as might be expended. This entire charge 
was then made against the household account at the end of the 
year, for garden produce used. 

After carefully estimating the quantities of such produce grown 
in the farmer's garden at its farm price, which is much less than 
the town price, it seems fair to conclude that on the average this 
method of charging the cost of farm produce slightly exceeds the 
real value of the produce used. The average farmer's garden in 
Minnesota is very meager, often poorly cared for, and it seems 
certain that the dietary of the average farmer suffers from a lack 
of sufficient vegetable food. 

In compiling the statistical data the roots, such as beets, tur- 
nips, carrots, etc., are charged in bulk to the house at the time 
they are dug, while the potatoes are either charged in bulk or 
from month to month, depending upon circumstances and con- 
ditions. Meats killed upon the farm are charged at the hoof, or 



igog] Factors and Cost of Board on Minnesota Farms 45 

dressed meat price. Thus the cost of meat used upon the farm 
would be much less than that purchased from the shop or in 
town. At the present time, the value of a dressed hog on the farm 
does not exceed yKc- per pound, but if the meat were par- 
chased at local markets the cost would be from loc. to 15c. per 
pound. Milk, cream, butter and eggs are charged at the market 
prices that can be obtained for them. At the present time whole 
milk is valued at 12c. per gallon on our Northfield route, this 
being the price received by the farmer when it is shipped. In 
establishing the cost of board the constant effort has been to 
charge all produce used at the prices received or paid for them by 
the farmer. The cost of board is thus established for the house- 
hold as a whole, but it is necessary to obtain it upon the basis of 
an adult male laborer in order that it may be used in establishing 
the wage received. 

The total days board per month for men, women, and children 
is kept track of and at the end of the month the part of an adult 
male that each woman or child represents is determined arbitrarily 
and the total days board converted to its equivalent number of 
days for a man. Upon this basis the cost of board is determined. 
Heretofore, the conversion of family board into board for one man 
has not been determined upon a basis as exact as could be desired 
but hereafter this will be determined according to the relative 
food requirements published by the U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture^ of persons of different ages as compared with a man in 
ftill vigor at moderate work. The average man will be assigned 
the unit of 100, the woman 80, and so on for the various ages or 
kinds of labor. 

The Factors of Cost: To enable us to more easily locate the 
cause of excessive costs and to demonstrate where savings could 
be instituted the cost of household board has been classified rather 
broadly under five subdivisions, namely: (i) farm produce, 
(2) groceries and fuel, (3) man and horse labor, (4) woman labor, 
and (5) furnishings. 

"Farm produce" represents the cost of all food stuffs used from 
the farm, the dairy products, garden products, poultry products, 
meats, vegetables, etc. Under the heading "groceries and fuel" 
are charged all supplies for the house purchased for cash or for 



'U. S. Department of Agriculture, Yearbook, 1907, p. 365. 



46 TJie Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

its equivalent in trade, all forms of groceries, meats, butter, and 
fuel, either illuminating oil, oil for heating or cooking, or fuel 
used in stoves, ranges and heaters. "Man and horse labor" con- 
sists of the labor perfoimed at, or for the home, by men and horses, 
such as the removal of storm windows or banking from the house, 
special trips to town for supplies, etc. "Woman labor" repre- 
sents the value of the woman's services in caring for the house, 
the preparation of food and such other duties as are generally 
required of the farm housewife in keeping house. The item 
"furnishings" represents the cost of repairs and depreciation of the 
various utensils and furnishings used in boarding the farm family. 

The Table I, opposite, is presented for the three routes for the 
year 1907 to illustrate the difference in cost of board in the same 
vicinity and to show the relative percentage that each sub- 
division bears to the total cost of board. 

The column headed "number boarded" represents the equiva- 
lent number of men boarded per month on each farm, determined 
as before stated by converting the board of women and children 
or non-productives into terms of man-days-boarded. 

Data similar to that presented has been collected and compiled 
each year on the routes from independent farmers for the past 
four years. The information thus secured has been collected 
for a sufficient period of time so that when compiled we may 
rely upon it to represent accurately average conditions which 
prevail on our farms. 

The cost of board on the individual farms is found to vary 
from $9 to $18 or $20 per man per month and the relative 
cheapness seems to depend much upon the number boarded, for 
as shown in table I, the expenditures for food comprise only from 
55% to 64% of the cost of board, the remaining cost being a 
factor which does not vary with the number boarded, and that 
can reach the minimum per boarder when the number of boarders 
occupies the full labor efficiency of the housewife. 

The cost of farm board per man as determined on all farms for 
the years 1905. 1906 and 1907 was Si 2.07 per month or 40.2 cents 
per man per day. The following table, from a joint bulletin, 
now in press, of the Bureau of Statistics of the Department of 
Agriculture and the Minnesota Experiment Station, indicates the 
relative cost of board for the years 1905, 1906 and 1907 and the 
average cost per route. 



I go 9] Factors and Cost of Board on Minnesota Farms 



47 





























































wswz 






















< 30JS 




<Nr^'^'<»'\0(N(NO'l" 


\0 


.N 


r»>ir, Os 


1^ 


fs 


to Ov » tN (Jv 10 
-" vd Tf 10 to ID 








-^ Tf' fO (N ultW PO ■♦ (N 


10 


10 


M * — ■* — vO 


vd 
to 


10 


ri "O !>.' to' vd ■* 





td<:o« 












*^ 


to 




> ««r 






















< M_ Q- 
























c 
t^ t:; -^ 




















CO 


tJiorOult^r^OO — 




(N 






lO 


vO to Ov t^ ^ 




2 





S5S 


OOvOr^ulr^xCfNO 






r~ * — 0> "O 10 




00 


rjio M'j'dr^ 




g 


a^ ° 


fe t>.' r^' 06 (N d — C 




lO 


d -■ d — ■ d iW (N 




^' 


d (N — vd (N — ' 




^ 




£ 


a, — 


















CO 




















2 
05 






















a> 


lOulO'tiOOO-" 





■* 


0\ \C i/i <0 10 OMO 


■>t 


to 


VO t/^ »0 






_3 


a>f^-'oot^io-cio 


»o 


f^ 


•* <N to I^ (N 


» 


« 


10 ■^ — vc — Ov 


10 



*. 


P 


"rt 


m' 5v d t^' (si ■* un' -^' 


(-** 


0\ 


to Ov' — ■ OJ -^^ lO to 


vd 


to 


(N C\ r»" to' — ' 


fe 


> 


<N •^(N rO (N •* 






<0 -H 


S 


<« 


0- T«.-- 


Ov 
«» 


to 


eJ 


§13 


w'0» — t^ff>'*Orri>£C> 










in 


<N to vC — to 









t 0« 


o-«c-ooinio3\-"io>0 




3 


to T! to Tj< -. M 




\q 


t^ Ov Ov 10 (N 




0\ 


pa 


R "^ S 


!-; h-.' -^ 00 vri (si ■>»■ Tf — IT) 




«w 


— ' 10 vd d o< vd (N 




00 


— d d d Cvi ro 




d 


< 


a^ 



"^'trjroror^r'JfOTj. 




fo 


to to (N fN (N (N to 




tN 


(N ^J- to to to to 




to 


J 


a. 




















2 






















<: 




000>/)000-0 


vO 


"i" 


ID 10 





^^ 


000000 










&; 


OOOr^OuiOOiO 


r^ 


t^ 


OC OXr^ 


vO 


■rj 


c 








.1^ 


•*(Nadt-'(Nddodoo 


d 





■* ■* vd ^^ •* 00 d 


^ 


■* 


d (N to «' a>' «' 


d 





c« 


^-.OiO-"vOOOiO 


vO 





i/l to c — 







— — «o r^ 





vd 


^ 


> 


— r^tN — rO — CNCN — 


00 


CN 


-< «N (N — tN tN (N 


>/5 


fN 


<N to — (N — (N 


to 






<« 




«» 


^ 




«« 


«^ 




<N| 








«i» 






«» 






«» 


«» 


u 


C 

.215 
■p t; *i 


uOO>^(N<NrOOO^'»' 




■* 






<N 


to Ov <N to « tN 




* 


CO 


a 


i) vd •*' ■* ■*' — ' "I r^' ^ 




(N 


» C <N r- C 00 







1/5 -; — 10 q 




(N 


05 




"«• 


"i (vi to 10 ■>!• to' •*' 




•*^ 


r-.' (N (N (N '»■ t^' 




00 


og 


So 


o. 












-" ~ 








a, 










































2 


CTvO'*(N«>Ot^ — — 


ro 





to vO ul Ov to Ov 


>0 


(N 


« fN •* ^ to r^ 




f*5 — ^O^^^Or^^OOO 





"t 


C\ fN OM^ W On -• 


00 




00 00 (N to tN O; 


> 


d vd (N W ■* (N 5; fN (N 


2 


•* 


■*' M u^' vd rj d — ' 


d 


d 


■>*■' vd — ' ^' lo to' 


vd 

to 


r-' 

m 


s 


(NPOCN — — PO—fOfS 




<N 


CN — tolN* toto 




to 


t-» — t^ -« (SI ■«• 




«» 


CM 


««» 


«^ 


(N 


«» 










«» 






«» 




«« 




J 


c 




















u 


•Srt 


*Jr^'*rif^OOr^fl"io 




00 






•* 


r^iof^ to vo 




00 


i=> 


SSS 


O^Wri'^0;00*a;ro 







(N vO 1/) t^ — •* ■* 




vO 


10 <o "^ -> to I^ 




ro 


PH 


u a> 0^ — 00 c fN M d a> 




^ 


vd r-' C7^ >d X «■ to 




d 


Ov ■*' 00' d Ov to 




■♦" 


08 


p 


« — -.(N(N'*'<f(N'*(N 




to 


CN fN to (N tN <N to 




to 


PJ <N to P^ to 




(N 


CO 










































c2 




— r-0'fJ'<N<N — 





<N 


•♦ r- to ■* i/~, Ov 


^^ 


r^ 


•♦ WOv(N(N'* 


Oi 


OV 


U 



_3 


Tj'OtNCX'', 00X00 


rO 


00 


r^ to C r^ 10 (N 


to 


■* 


— •♦ "^ o> 


to 


» 





ONod-j-c'iNcdCT^ — 


uS 


(N 


00' (N a >W >o •*' Ov 


C 


6^ 


lo «' vd <N — d 


"O 


d 





"5 


iC-*- — (NSM^OOO 


10 


t^ 


r^« 0^ to 10 « — 





(N 


OvM vO vO — 


M 


r>. 


> 


-" — — r';(N — CN — 


vO 




— — to — (N (N (N 


vO 


(N 


-. — (N — (N 







O4 


<» 




a* 


«* 




«» 


<o 




«» 









o» 






«» 






«» 




u 


1^ 


^JOvf^f^fNff-O". no 




o> 






■<f 


(S — tor^ « Ov 









12 1 


or^r^wrMiou-. xOjO 




t^ 


« r^ 10 00 to oo_ 




00 


00 vOtN'^tN 




90 


& 


t- 00 vd -• f^ (N (N uS 00 




fo 


(N d iW r-' vd t~." 




■* 


•^dt^d-^-* 




«^ 


Q 



«- " 
O4 






«N 


to to to -:»■ to to tN 




to 


■*tOtNtototS 




to 


OS 






















a. 






1 




















•^•^OOr^r^f^CfN 


r- 


(S 


r^ ^ "*• ^ >/l ^ 


« 


r>» 


10 00 ■* ■<f o> 10 


ifl 


r^ 


s 


V 


roa>"ta>>03^r^0'0 


U1 





lO Ov >/5 vO « ■* 





00 


r- q Tf to — 


00 


0> 


OS 

<: 


3 


r^' X d (N vc d ri wS •* 


d 


i/i 


_; 10 00 rO — (N (N 


vd 


d 


10 d to to to' rvi 


r-' 


(N 


"5 
> 


lOCTT^O — r^'^C'O 


rM 


fO 


00 — to -t o« 


fN 


vO 


— to vO r~ 10 


to 


(N 




(N 




— CS to <N to to — 


00 


fN 


^(N — <N -■ — 


to 


r< 


b 


«» 




«» 


«» 




•» 


«» 




V* 






«» 






•» 






M 






« — t 

j2&.cn 


2 ■ 
tn . 

•— 


aJ 


. d 






"3 

2 


u • 

^E 
■>fe 


13 ! .' ! i 
^SSoJfcV 


..J ai 




V E 


•0 • 

= =•< 


d 




3 




■3 
1 






■zxx 


KJ 


SK^ 


2 


U 




< 


ss 




< 


Xfe 


cr 


K 




< 



48 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[Feb. 



TABLE II. — Cost of Farm Board per Man per Month and per Man 
PER Day in Different Locations in Minnesota. 



Locality and period. 



Cost in 
1905. 


Cost in 
1906. 


Cost in 
1907. 


$11.18 
.37 


$13.37 
.45 


$14.32 
.48 


11.89 
.40 


11.92 
.40 


12.77 
.43 


10.74 
.36 


11.38 
.38 


11.42 
.38 


9.75 
.33 


9.90 
.33 


9.39 
.31 




16.00 
.53 


15.00 
.50 



Average 
cost. 



Northfield (Rice Co.) — nine far- 
mers' families 

Month 

Day 

Marshall (Lyon Co.) — seven far- 
mers' families 

Month 

Day 

Halstad (Norman Co.) — six far- 
mers' families 

Month 

Day 

Norman Co. — an 1820 acre farm 

Month 

Day 

Stevens Co. — a 640 acre farm 

Month 

Day 

Average for all farms 

Month . 

Day 



$12.96 
.43 



12.19 
.41 



11.18 
.37 



9.68 
.33 



15.50 
.52 



12.07 
.40 



It is interesting to note the difference in the cost of board 
obtained on the different routes. The average cost per man for 
three years at Northfield was $12.96 per month, at Marshall 
$12.19 P'sr month and $11.18 at Halstad. The chief cause for 
the higher cost at Northfield lies in the higher standard of living 
which prevails in that section over that at Halstad. One is an 
old, well-settled and properous community within fifty miles 
of the cities, the other is a newer community not to exceed twenty 
five years old, distant from the centers of population and peopled 
by foreign immigrants or the first generation therefrom. 

By reference to table I, the reasons for the higher cost at North- 
field over that at Halstad may be discovered by comparison. 
Based upon the average number of men boarded the value of farm 
produce consumed annually per man was $35.45 at Halstad and 
$3 8. 63 at Northfield, a difference of $3.18 per adult male. A 
greater difference is observed in the cash expenditures for 
groceries and fuel, for the annual cost per man was $27.16 at 



1909] Factors attd Cost of Board on Minnesota Farms 



49 



Halstad against $49.23 at Northfield, a difference of $22.07. 
The higher cost is due to the purchase at Northfield of many 
foodstuffs for cash that are produced on the farm at Halstad, also 
to the purchase of a greater quantity of foodstuffs. The homes 
at Northfield are better heated than are those of Halstad so that 
the expenditures for fuel are greater. Another fact that also 
enters in, is that at Halstad a considerable quantity of wood is 
used which is obtained from small lots on the Red River, at a 
nominal price and labor of cutting. However, the added ex- 
penditure for fuel at Northfield merely goes to indicate the 
difference in the standard of living. 

In the cost of woman labor there is a difference of $24.36 per 
annum per man in favor of Halstad, which is due almost entirely 
to the greater number boarded per farm at Halstad than at 
Northfield. An average of 6.29 men were boarded on each farm 
at Halstad while 3.51 men were boarded at Northfield. Thus if 
labor were the same price per week on each route, the cost per 
man for this item would be almost twice as high at Northfield as 
at Halstad. To further illustrate the cause for the difference in 
cost of board and to illustrate the average quantity of farm 
produce other than vegetables used on the various farms, table 
III is presented. 

TABLE III. 



.AVERAGE ANNUAL 


CONSUMPTION OF FARM PRODUCE 
TAIN MINNESOTA FARMS. 


PER MAN ON 


CER- 


Location of 
farms. 


Whole 
milk 


Sldm 

milk 


Butter 


Cream 


Eggs 


Pork 


Poultrj' 


Beef 


Mut- 
ton 


Northfield . . . 

Marshall 

Halstad 


Lbs. 
333.2 
241. 
48.2 


Lbs. 

298.9 
718.1 


Lbs. 
19.1 
68.5 
52.2 


Lbs. 
16.3 
90.1 
84.7 


Doz. 
61.8 
46. 
26.3 


Lbs. 
94.4 
77.5 
60.1 


Lbs. 

22.6 

24.9 

6.8 


Lbs. 

28.4 
118.2 


Lbs. 

4.1 
2.2 



In table III the quantities of product obtained from the farm 
are shown under the various headings. Where no amounts are 
given as under the heading butter and beef at Northfield it does 
not indicate that such food was not used on the table but that if 
used it was purchased from the local creamery or from merchants. 

The average annual consumption per man was calculated from 
the average number of persons boarded per month on the various 
farms averaged for the route. The values given in the table afford a 
good illustration of the quantity of food used, of the farm products 
used per man and show the great difference in the dietary of the 



50 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb 

farmers in the southeastern part of the state and those in the 
northwestern. At Marshall a larger amount of butter was made 
and consumed on the farm than at Northfield and a considerably- 
larger amount of cream, meats, etc., were used, while the quantity 
of eggs and pork used was smaller. At Halstad as at Marshall 
there was a tendency to make a greater use of products produced 
at home. The saving shown in the amount of butter and eggs 
used per man is possibly due to the fact that they have a ready 
cash sale, but is more likely due to the use of certain substitutes 
which are cheaper or more easily secured. 

No skim milk (that is, milk from which the greater part of 
butterfat has been separated but which still contains about one- 
tenth per cent fat) was used on the Northfield route, but a large 
quantity was used on the Halstad route and but very little whole 
milk. The quantity of cream used on the Marshall route is large 
compared with Northfield, 90 pounds against 16 pounds, but the 
quantity of whole milk consumed was less. In 1907 only two 
farms on the Halstad route used whole milk. However, the loss 
of fat in the whole milk was made good by the use of cream and 
the skim milk. The cream commonly used on these farms con- 
tains from 20 per cent to 30 per cent butter fat. 

It is of interest to note the great dependence placed upon dairy 
products on the Marshall and Halstad farms. There, the milk, 
cream and butter used assume a prominent place in the family 
diet. As no milk or cream is purchased the quantities of milk 
used indicate in a way the dependence of the farm family on the 
different routes upon these products. At Northfield 349 lbs. of 
milk and cream is consumed per man per year, while at Marshall 
and Halstad the amounts are 630 lbs. and 851 lbs. respectively. 
The farm at Halstad, then, provides almost 2^ times more milk 
and cream per man per year than the farm at Northfield. 

The farms at Halstad furnish annually 187 lbs. of meat per 
man per year, those at Marshall 134 lbs. and at Northfield 117 lbs. 
the housewife at Northfield being more dependent upon the 
butcher than are those of Marshall and Halstad. The smaller 
quantity of meat from the farm used at Northfield is probably 
due in part to the fact that the average number of persons 
boarded is insufficient to consume fresh meat during the warm 
months and in part to a distaste for the preserved products. 
The value of the farm produce used at Halstad and Marshall is 



1909] Factors and Cost of Board on Minnesota Farms 5 1 

about one third of the total cost of board which illustrates the 
old saying that the farmer obtains one half his living from the 
farm. If labor and furnishings are not considered, the farm as 
determined by cost, furnishes 44% of the living at Northfield, 
53% a-t Marshall and 56% at Halstad. If food values are taken 
into consideration a much higher proportion would be furnished 
from the farm. A large proportion of the expenditures for 
groceries are for items having a slight food value best used for con- 
dimental purposes and for furnishing pleasant changes. 

If a people are known by their dietary we may look upon the 
farmer of Minnesota as being an exceptionally wellfed individual 
and consequently having a high labor efficiency. This view is 
undoubtedly correct for while the average number of hours of 
labor by the farmer is not excessive, yet a visitor is usually im- 
pressed with the amount of work accomplished. The average 
number of hours of work per day per man at Northfield was 8.56, 
at Marshall 8.29, and at Halstad 7.43, as determined from three- 
year averages based upon the total work performed in the year. 
It remains for the experts in food nutrition to show how well the 
farmer is fed. 

It is to be regretted that statistics have not been obtained to 
fully cover the quantities and kinds of food consumed by the 
farm family, in order that the nutritive value of the food might 
be shown. It is purposed, however, during the coming year to 
endeavor to obtain the entire food consumption from at least a 
few farm families in Minnesota. At the same time an effort will 
be made to obtain similar data from an equal number of families 
in Minnesota cities for purposes of comparison. The women 
students of the Domestic Science department of the Minnesota 
College of Agriculture are in position to obtain accurate informa- 
tion and it is believed that they will supply such figures. Thus 
we hope to have data which will be of extreme value in formulat- 
ing dietary standards and in offering us opportunity to study 
carefully the foods of the people. 

There is room for much work along this line and methods 
should be so developed and standardized that the results may be 
comparable. If several of the experiment stations would pursue 
such an investigation for a sufficient length of time and with a 
large number of farm families, the data could be compiled and 
issued as a cooperative bulletin. 



SELECTION OF DOMESTIC ART SUBJECT MATTER FOR 
SECONDARY SCHOOLS' 

Anna M. Cooley. 

Instructor in Domestic Art, Teachers College, 
Columbia University. 

By "secondary," one generally means the four years course of 
study connecting the elementary school and the college, or higher 
schools, but in the broader sense, the term secondary may in- 
clude all kinds of educational schools of one, two or three years, 
or even evening classes beyond the elementary school, such as 
the continuation classes of Germany. In this discussion I shall 
bear in mind both meanings, the broader as well as the general 
use of the term secondary. In the course of study presented at 
the end, the more accepted meaning of the term secondary edu- 
cation is assumed. In selecting subject matter we may take as 
our standard that it must prove most satisfactory and profitable 
to the girl, and may understand by the term satisfactory, that 
the interest of the girl must be kept constantly in mind, and by 
profitable, that the selection must be of that most helpful to the 
particular group. 

With this agreement as to the term secondary and this under- 
standing of the satisfactory and profitable character of subject 
matter, we may discuss the selection of subject matter under 
two heads : 

1. The factors or conditions governing the selection of subject 
matter. 

2. The mass of domestic art subjects suitable for secondary 
schools, from which selection must be made. 

Chart I. The Factors Governing Selection of Subject Matter 



The Girl 

Locality and Environment 

Cost 

Aim of Secondary Education in Particular School 

Social Aspects 

Ideals of Director 

Industries of Locality. 



'This paper was delivered before the meeting of' the Teaching Section 
of the Lake Placid Conference, Washington, D. C, Dec. 31, 1908. 

52 



1909] Dontestic Art Subject Matter for Secondary Schools 53 

The first factor governing selection is the girl, herself, 
and if the teacher is really human, she cannot help but feel the 
appeal of the girl, with the unfolding of this nature which is so 
very human. We are to guard her physically and watch her 
psychologically. There will be much of interest and much that 
the domestic art teacher can do in her close association, to protect 
her and help her. 

The environment and locality affect selection. Locality, 
may serve to designate the place where the school is located 
as, for instance, a private school in a suburb or one in a 
large city ; and environment, so much more than definite locality, 
all the influences which go to make up the atmosphere surround- 
ing the particular locality. The private school in the suburbs 
might be a boarding school for girls and the course of study 
selected would be very different from the course presented in a 
city private school, where the students were only day pupils. 
The influences of the home life or of the other social institutions, 
go to make up the environment, so that it means something 
more than just definite locality. These conditions naturally 
affect the selection of the problems which the domestic art 
teacher may wish to present. 

The general aim of secondary schools and of the particular 
type of school, will also affect selection. If the school prepare 
for college entrance, the course will because of time limitations be 
quite different from one which aims to train the girls for home 
life. There may also be trade courses, and the aim of such 
schools would again differ from those of the college entrance 
courses. Evening or day continuation classes for dressmakers 
or others would mean again an entirely different course of study, 
and this aim will certainly control the teacher's plans. The 
manual training high school would demand a course of study 
which might be quite different from a technical or practical arts 
high school. If sewing were presented in the elementary school, 
the work of the secondary would differ from one in which the 
children have not had such a preparation before entering. 

The cost of the work and the time allowed for it would again 
influence selection. If the board of education insists on supplying 
all the materials used, the teacher may be handicapped by a 
certain sum unless she be very ingenious and versatile. Four 
hours a week would naturallv cost more than two because of the 



54 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

extra materials which would be used. The girls in some schools 
are permitted to furnish their own materials. This is both wise 
and satisfactory and enables the teacher to plan a course of study 
quite different from one where the authorities insist on furnishing 
all the materials used. In the schools of trade type, the expense 
of the work is very great because it is necessary to use good 
materials of many varieties in order that the pupils may have 
the necessary experience in handling those things which would 
be used later in trade. In this type of school, provision must be 
made for the sale of the articles, and the cost of this work, as well 
as the demands of trade, will naturally influence the selection of 
the things to be made. 

The teacher of domestic art should keep in mind the social 
aspects of the home and the school in selecting the problems for 
her course of study. She should take into consideration the 
needs of the neighborhood, as they may be presented in the 
hospital, neighborhood house, or nursery, in the home and school, 
and where it is possible develop a sort of social consciousness 
within the girl so that she will be interested in working for the 
needs of others. These social topics, if kept in mind, will in- 
crease the interest and naturally affect the planning of any course 
of study. 

The ideals of the principal of the school, of the superintendent 
of schools, the president of the board of education, or other 
supervisory officer, naturally affect the plans of the domestic art 
teacher. Their ideals for the work may be quite different from 
her aims. A woman of much tact and versatility and of the best 
training is needed to cope with affairs. The proper selection of 
subject matter will often hinge on the way in which she handles 
the situation, especially if the ideals of these persons are not in 
accord with her own. 

If the secondary school is for trade courses, selection of subject 
matter would naturally be regulated by the industries of the 
locality open to women, the wages paid and the influences sur- 
rounding the trades. All of the above factors are bound to 
influence the teacher of domestic art and to affect the selection 
of the problems which she may wish to present in her particular 
locality in order to meet conditions. 

With these factors in mind we may turn to the subjects 
generally included as belonging to the domestic art field. I have 



1909] Domestic Art Subject Matter for Secondary Schools 55 

grouped these about the two human needs of shelter and clothing. 
On the point of shelter our subject matter naturally overlaps 
that of domestic science, but I have included those things which 
fall under the head of shelter on the artistic side. 

Chart 2. Domestic Art Subjects from which Selection is to be Made 



Clothing 
Hand Sewing 
Machine Sewing 
Millinery 
Embroidery 
Textile Work 
Selection and care of Clothing. 



Shelter 

1. Keeping Accounts 

Clothing, etc. in Relation to Income 

2. Designing for Household Furnishings and Decoration 

3. Making of Artistic and Healthful Furnishings 

4. Repairing of Household Linen, Clothing, etc. 

5. Laundering and Cleansing of Clothing and Household Materials. 

From this chart it may be possible for you to get an idea of the 
subjects as they are grouped under the heads of clothing and 
shelter. By hand-sewing I mean the making of articles which 
would be of particular value and interest to the girl — not the 
sewing on scraps which one finds in so many schools. Machine 
sewing involves the making of under garments and dresses or 
other problems, by machine, in accord with the demands of the 
school or the home needs of the girl. This naturally includes 
the economical cutting and use of materials and planning of ap- 
propriate gowns, the use of patterns and the regulation of the cost 
of clothing. Millinery may be made of much interest to the 
girl if the class is well conducted with economy of time. The 
making of spring, summer and winter hats may be included in 
the course. Embroidery as applied to J !gh school work should 
mean definite application of the stitches taught to articles of 
interest, such as lingerie hats, under garments, problems for 
house decoration, such as pillows, table-runners and other- 
articles. The textile work may be given as supplementary 
to all of the above subjects and may include the study of the 
evolution of textiles, the dyeing and properties of materials, the 
collection of samples of the leading textiles with their widths^ 



56 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

prices, names, use, and other data. Basketry may also be studied 
as a textile subject and is of interest as an additional subject for 
variation in the course of study. It is of value up to a certain 
point, but after the technique has been learned, it is not wise for 
the girl to spend much time in needless repetition when there are 
so many other things of greater usefulness when completed. 

The care of clothing should be taught in connection with all 
the above subjects or in a particular way by itself; the repairing 
and re-making of garments is well worthy of consideration in a 
well planned course of study for the secondary school. "A stitch 
in time saves nine," and the girl who knows how to repair and 
care for her clothes has a household art of true economic value. 

The keeping of accounts educates the girl to become as a wo- 
man a provident consumer. Especially is this true in relation to 
clothing for it enables the girl to see the relation of the ex- 
penditure for clothes to the rest of the expenses which are 
generally included under the cost of living. 

Under the subject of shelter I have also included the designing 
and making of artistic and healthful furnishings. These may be 
designed in the art class and made in either the sewing or em- 
broidery classes. Special rooms in the school building or at 
home may be planned and the girls enabled to work out the 
furnishings for them. If it is not possible to actually furnish a 
room at the school, the girls may make charts which will illustrate 
the way in which furnishing may be done should the opportunity 
come to them. These charts may give the colorings for walls, 
wood-work, draperies, rugs, pillows and other articles of furnish- 
ing, and may be illustrated by means of pictures cut from maga- 
zines or old furniture catalogs. Exhibits of furnishings are also 
helpful and may often be obtained as a loan from some furniture 
or department store and may prove of great value to the whole 
school. 

The repairing of household linen is naturally a domestic art 
subject. Such repairing may be done in the hand-sewing class 
and discussed while considering the care of clothing and house- 
hold materials. Laundering and cleansing of clothing and 
materials should be given in connection with the work of the 
school and may best be presented perhaps in special laundering 
courses, or as a special subject for consideration by domestic art 
teachers if no laundering work is offered in the school. 



J 



1909] Domestic Art Subject Matter for Secondary Schools 57 

With this mass of subject matter before us and an under- 
standing of the factors involved in selection, how shall we know 
which to choose /• It is impossible to present all, especially if the 
subjects of cookery, home nursing and home management are to 
be included in the curriculum^ of household arts. We are com- 
pelled to face the situation that the selection must hinge on the 
good judgment of the teacher. I feel that there are two kinds of 
domestic art teachers in the secondary schools, those who teach 
sewing technically and those who give the subject a rich thought- 
content. In order to treat the subject in the best way, the 
teacher must use her versatility and ingenuity and see that 
the subjects are developed with interest and the possible 
relationships made to the other subjects of the school. 

The textile field has much thought material to offer — the cost 
of textile materials, economy in buying, choice in selection of 
appropriate and artistic clothing as well as home furnishings. 
The relation of domestic art to the other subjects of the high 
school — art, history, geography, literature, economics, physics 
and others, should be kept constantly in mind. Domestic art 
teachers should feel that the art work is the basis for aU their 
plans and if they are not directly responsible for this part of the 
work they should try to interest the art teachers and have the 
connection made as vital as possible. The relation of domestic 
art to such social work as that of the Consumers' League, the 
Municipal League and other societies, should be kept in mind, and 
through them the interest of the girl enlisted in philanthropic 
work. If the domestic art course is well planned, the teacher 
will aim to develop foresight, responsibility, initiative and 
creativity, as she presents her subjects. Visits to factories, 
museums and shops, will help to give the pupils a new point of 
view and to make the work more truly interesting and vital. 
Plans for making things of value in the home and school, help to 
increase the girl's interest. There may be co-operation with 
school festivities, the making of Christmas gifts and things for 
others. All of these interests help to make the work more truly 
valuable. 

The following course of study which is planned to meet the 
definite conditions given, may be suggestive to those who are 
engaged in planning their school courses. It has been arranged 
as part of the household arts course for a secondary school, and 



58 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

the time allowed is two hundred and forty hours which may be 
covered in two or three years. In planning this course, the 
domestic science part of the work was kept in mind and the 
same amount of time allowed for it, although the two courses 
would naturally overlap under the problems considered as shelter 
and household management. Although time does not permit its 
discussion I trust that it may prove of some value to those of you 
who may be engaged in planning courses of study. 

COURSE IN DOMESTIC ART 

[Part of Household Arts Course for Secondary School] 

I. Factors governing the selection of this subject matter for a possible 
condition. 

1. Previous training — Hand sewing given in 6th and 7th grades 

of elementary school. 

2. Secondary course to count towards college entrance. 

3. Location of school — (assumed) Suburb of Philadelphia. 

4. Girls — From homesof best middle class — ^Some go to college — 

others to be prepared for home duties. 

5. Time, 240 hrs. To be distributed as seems best in working 

out program of all studies, possibly three hours per week 
for two years. 

6. Cost. Pupils supply nearly all materials. 

II. Course of Study. 
A. Clothing. 

I. Problems. 

a. Underwear (3 pieces) 

b. Shirt waist gown or simple lingerie gown (one 

piece or waist and skirt) 

c. Making of lined gown — 

1. Skirt — drop skirt 

2. Waist. 

d. Millinery. 

1 . Fall or Winter Hat 

2. Summer Hat — straw or lingerie. 

e. Embroidery. 

1. Table cover or pillow top 

2. Lingerie Hat or underwear (above men- 
tioned). 

Basketry. 

1 . Work basket (rattan) 

2. Bowl shaped (design). 

3. Flat tray (design) 



1 909] Domestic A rt Subject Matter for Secondary Schools 5 9 

2. Processes involved in working out above problems. 

a. Hand sewing (review) 

b. Machine sewing 

c. Drafting with use of patterns 

d. Fitting and hanging of garment 

e. Designing for decoration and draft of patterns 

f . Computation of costs. 

3- Thought content to be developed while presenting 
above problems. 

a. Textile study- 
Source of materials, properties, manufacture, 

design and workmanship of textiles. 

b. Use and adaptation of bought patterns and rela- 

tion to drafting 

c. Hygiene in relation to wearing apparel 

Sweatshop labor 

d. Study of relative values of hand and machine 

work 

e. Suitability of apparel in relation to use and in- 

come. 
Line and color to be adapted to wearer. Eco- 
nomics of the purchase of materials, prices, 
widths, quahty, etc., in relation to use, and 
planning of the wardrobe. How to reduce 
cost with good effect. 

f. Training for accuracy, neatness, foresight and 

responsibility 
Development of social consciousness. 

4- Allied Subjects. 

a. Art in specific design, color, adaptation of line to 

space — relation to human form; 
History of costume as expression of social 
development ; appropriateness of clothing and 
beauty. 

b. Physics (care of machines) 

c. Commercial Geography 

d. Industrial History 

e. Economics (simple form) 

f . Physiology (hygiene of clothing) 

g. Chemistry (dyeing of materials). 

5. Related interests. To be developed while teaching 
above problems. 

a. Visits to shops, factories, museums and hbraries 

b. Use of books and current magazines as of value in 

above study 



6o The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

c. Work of organizations, as Municipal League, 

Consumers League, Board of Health, Trades 
Unions (Relationof employerand employees) 

d. Sweatshop problems, duties, and customs (im- 

ported gowns, etc.) 
B. Shelter and Household Management. 

1. Problems. 

a. Making of charts showing relation of clothing to 

income: also charts of color schemes for 
rooms and furnishings 

b. Making of furnishings 

1 . Scarf for table or pillow 

2. Curtains 

3 . Weaving of cover. 

c. Keeping of accounts — informal talks on house 

management in relation to furnishings and 
clothing. 

d. Laundering of materials (cleansing, dyeing) . 

2. Processes involved in working out the above problems. 

a. Stenciling 

b. Block printing 

c. Hand loom weaving 

Co-operative work 

d. Exhibits in school of rooms furnished 

e. Trial of method of keeping personal accounts 

f. Cleansing and dyeing of old materials. 

3 . Thought Content to be developed while presenting above 

problems. 

a. Artistic and beautiful furnishings of home; 

spirit of home making; ethical and social 
side; kind of home in relation to income. 

b. Management in relation to repairs of clothing, 

linen, rugs, etc. Care of clothing and house 
furnishing. Laundering of materials. 

c. Keeping accounts. Clothing and furnishings, 

their relation to income. 

d. Economy of time in relation to making and use 

of home things. 

e. Business management. Simple business rules 

and law for women. 

4. Allied Subjects. 

a. Art. 

Study of design materials, color in relation to 
rooms 

b. Household sanitation — 

In relation to furnishings - 

c. Chemistry — 



1 9° 9] Domestic Art Subject Matter for Secotidary Schools 6i 

Color; cleansing of wood and materials; dye- 
ing; laundering 
d. Economics (very simple) 

Law of supply and demand 
Mone}^ — fall of price. 

5. Related Interests. 

(Same as above subject (i) Clothing.) 

University of At the University of Nebraska there was dedicated on 

Nebraska January 20th, a college building to be used for practi- 

cal instruction in Home Economics. The building is 
located on the University Farm about two miles from the Campus. The 
structure is three stories high and has dormitory space for some sixty or 
eighty students, a good textile room, two protein kitchens and a protein 
dining room accommodating one hundred and fifty persons. The school 
girls of High School grade live in the building and carry on their work 
there. The women students of the University have their cooking, sewing 
and protein work in the new building. 



Conference in The Pacific Conference on Home Economics held a 

California meeting Monday afternoon, December 21st, 1908, at 

Los Angeles, California. 

Dr. Sherwin Gibbons read an interesting paper on dietetics in which he 
depicted the unsightly and unsanitary' conditions existing in the Russian 
quarters. He enjoined all domestic science workers to try to raise the 
standard of living among the poorer classes. After the paper, a round- 
table was held and the ways and means for handling these problems were 
discussed. 

The next feature was a very interesting and thoughtful talk on "Our 
Play-ground Work in Los Angeles," by Miss Best. She spoke of the three 
spheres of life, the physical, mental and moral, and how the play-ground 
work touched each. She gave a brief history of the work since its origin 
in Boston in 1886; Chicago now leads in the work and it has so grown that 
it has become recognized as an essential in all large cities. In New York 
the Board of Education has charge, but in most cities it is under the direc- 
tion of the City Council. 

The results of playground work are three-fold: First, it corrects 
physical defects; second, it brings about a co-ordination of the mental 
and physical; third, it raises moral standards, and prepares the child for 
good citizenship. 

Following this. Miss Flagg spoke briefly of our Home Economics organi- 
zation and its objects. 

The time and place for the next meeting was left to the Executive Com- 
mittee. All interested in the work were invited to join the Conference, 
after which the meeting was adjourned. — Mae McKinley, Secretary. 



THE TRAINING OF DIETITIANS FOR HOSPITALS.^ 

Florence R. Corbett, 

Department of Public Charities, New York City. 

Important as is the question of what the institution demands 
of the trained head of the Dietary Department, (previously con- 
sidered), at the present time it is of even greater importance that 
we inquire how this demand is to be met and the need supplied. 

So far the institutions have turned to the domestic science 
schools for aid and have employed the graduates from these 
schools as heads of the Dietary Departments. But although for 
a considerable period of years the managers of institutions have 
sought the domestic science school graduates for such positions, 
it is only recently that a very serious effort has been made on the 
part of the domestic science schools to inquire deeply into the 
actual needs of the institution and to attempt to extend their 
teaching seriously along this line.^ 

There has been the prevalent opinion that the requirements in 
the trained head of the Dietary Department of the institution 
were less than those for a teacher of domestic science, and con- 
sequently the tendency has been to offer short courses to prepare 
women for institutional work and to impress the normal student 
with the idea that institutional work was rather undesirable and 
comparatively ignoble. Examining the standards in the courses 
of study for women preparing for institutional work and for 
women preparing for teachers of domestic science, as set forth in 
the catalogue of one school which stands at the head in this line of 
work, we find that the applicant for the course in institutional 
training is not required to take an entrance examination and the 
nature of the preparation required in the applicant is such as 
could be provided in a grammar school education. On the other 
hand the applicant for training as a teacher must have com- 
pleted a four year course in high school and a definite amount of 
work in science, mathematics and have had experience in practical 
work in domestic science ; applicants so prepared must also pass 



'This IS an abstract from a paper presented, by invitation, by Miss 
Corbett before the American Society of Superintendents of Training 
^Schools for Nurses, at Cincinnati, in April, 1908. 

62 



1909] The Training of Dietitians for Hospitals 63 

an entrance examination in English literature, general history, 
current events and must submit note books which record the 
mental operations that accompany individual laboratory work in 
science, or letters from their instructors in science and mathe- 
matics or from the principal of the school attended and an official 
copy of their school record in these subjects. In contrasting the 
courses of study provided for the two lines of preparation men- 
tioned, we find that psychology, history of education, science of 
education, practice-teaching, construction, design, the physics of 
heat, are given the pupil preparing to be a teacher and are 
omitted from the course for the women preparing for institutional 
work, and it is presumable that the following subjects which are 
taught in both courses are given more thoroughly and at greater 
length in the course for teachers: cookery, chemistry, dietetics, 
bacteriology and physiology. Other subjects which are given 
place in both courses are physical training, hygiene, sanitation, 
laundry work, household economics, marketing and accounts. 
One cannot but conclude that the fact that the school of domestic 
science gives institutional work a less extensive and less intensive 
course of preparation than it gives teaching (as evidenced in giving 
it a one year course instead of a two year course) must have its 
effect upon the attitude which the student preparing for institu- 
tional work will bring to the institution. She is not impressed 
with the extent and the depth of the problems which she will 
have to face, any more than she is prepared to meet them. I do 
not say that such a one could not become a successful head of a 
Dietary Department of a large institution, for if she has native 
ability and has a foundation education in advance of the require- 
ments of the one year course, she may with experience in institu- 
tional work develop all the qualities required. But in this case 
credit should be given to the individual rather than to the one 
year course of training. Again one cannot but contrast the 
probable development of the individual in the one year course and 
in the two year course, assuming that their preparations for the 
work were equal at the time of entrance on the courses of study. 
At the end of one year the student in the one year course must 
feel that special knowledge is very easily gained and will have 
acquired an unjustifiable confidence in her own ability which 
may result in great discouragement at the end of a year or two of 
institutional work when she finds that her estimate of herself and 



64 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

her ability has not stood the test of the practical work. On the 
other hand at the end of the two year course the pupil is more apt 
to feel that special knowledge is not easily gained, that there is 
always more to learn, that the institution may possibly teach her 
something which she has not learned in school, and that she can- 
not go to any situation in life with a note-book containing 
absolute formulae for meeting all conditions that may arise. 
The two year graduate will find in the institution more points of 
relation between her own department and other departments 
than will the one year graduate, and by reason of her more 
mature mentality she will turn these relations to account not only 
for the good of her own department but for the good of the entire 
institution. Not to dwell upon this particular phase of the mat- 
ter too long, although I consider it most important, I would sim- 
ply call to your attention the fact that in many respects the hos- 
pital or similar institution is somewhat of a settlement, a little 
social body having a world of its own, and that the individual 
who takes up her residence there in a position of authority exer- 
cises an influence which she can have no means of estimating 
correctly previous to institutional experience, and which when 
once in the institution she will appreciate only so far as the 
breadth of her education and development of herself mentally 
will permit. She is useful to the institution and through the 
institution to a considerable portion of humanity, just to the 
extent to which she is prepared for this work ; a grammar school 
graduate will have a limited field of usefulness in the institution ; 
a high school graduate will have a less limited field of usefulness, 
and the college graduate may have a practically unlimited field 
of usefulness. 

It should be brought to the attention of educators in charge of 
this work of preparing women for institutional positions, that the 
opportunity for teaching in institutional work is considerable, 
for as a rule the dietitian is required to teach classes of nurses 
(where a limited course in invalid cookery may meet the require- 
ments but at the same time falls far short of all that might be 
given by a better prepared woman in the same line of work) . 
She is also in a position to play a considerable part in moulding 
the opinions and forming the standards in regard to food and its 
service, of thousands of people who come to the institution in the 
course of a year. Even the hospital which has but loo beds will 



1909] The Training of Dietitians for Hospitals 65 

receive in its wards during the course of the year many times that 
number of people, who will remain for a greater or less length of 
time, the majority of them to return to their own homes later. 
/ If the quality of the food by reason of its correct preparation 
and careful service were such as to impress these people favorably 
and cause them to observe and inquire into the methods and the 
cost of its preparation, who can estimate the influence that would 
be brought into the homes to which these people would go after 
their hospital residence? And who can say that the extent and 
the value of such influence would be one whit less than that of the 
teacher of domestic science in the school room? Why should 
hospitals not be looked upon as a certain sort of social settle- 
ment, in which influences of this sort must be estimated and pro- 
vided for? How many of us can speak with conviction of 
hospitals where the preparation and service of the food would 
furnish a proper standard in these matters for the people in the 
institution who must partake of the food, and which would have 
the effect of raising the standards in the homes of these people 
when they leave the hospital? I am afraid that hospitals in 
general are not considered to establish standards in these matters 
and that hospital conditions prevalent at this time do not 
encourage the idea, j'-et what better opportunity could possibly 
present itself ? / 

The extent to which this plan could be developed, of making 
the hospital food service the pattern for the community, must 
always be limited absolutely by the qualifications of the trained 
head of the Dietary Department. The education, personality, 
technical skill, experience and mental attitude toward the work, 
which will be found in the person mentioned, will measure the 
possibilities of the dietary work of the hospital. There is no 
subject taught to the domestic science student who is preparing 
as a teacher, which will not serve also as valuable preparation for 
the woman who is to take up institutional work. This fact is 
given recognition in the catalogue of the domestic science school 
above referred to, when it announces that the course for teachers 
will also prepare graduates "to be Dietitians, Supervising 
Institutional Housekeepers and Caterers." But no stress is laid 
on the necessity for the breadth of training for the more responsi- 
ble positions and for this the hospital managements may be partly 
to blame in not having fully appreciated the opportunities. 



66 Tlie Journal of Home /Economics [Feb. 

In my first institutional experience in the Department of 
Public Charities, there developed the need for assistants. Of 
course I desired domestic science graduates. Two problems 
then arose and were handled as follows: 

First, any assistant to be valuable to the head of the Depart- 
ment must be capable of relieving the head absolutely of the 
detail work in some definite section of the Dietary Department. 
But no domestic science graduate cares to remain all day for an 
indefinite number of days supervising the work of one dining room 
or one kitchen. She wishes more variety, a greater range of 
opportunity. At the same time in a large institution with the 
Dietary Department in process of organization, some one must 
be in close touch with all branches of the Dietary Department 
at all hours of the day; and an assistant on the move from one 
point to another was not of such value to the institution as one 
stationary at each point. The dilemma here consisted of a 
trained individual unwilling to remain stationary in one branch 
of the department, and a management that could not pay enough 
to make her willing to endure the monotony of such a limited 
field. 

The second problem was that of the partial unpreparedness 
of the graduate in her lack of knowledge of institutional methods 
and etiquette. She would have to be taught if she was to be 
given responsibility. Why should we pay her a salary for the 
privilege of teaching her? The solution of the two problems 
was the evolution of the "pupil dietitian" whose relation to the 
institution is analogous to that of the interne physician. She is 
there to learn how she may apply her knowledge most effectively, 
and to learn those things which the schools do not teach, and 
those which the schools cannot teach. The management allows 
$io per month for three months while she continues in this rela- 
tion to the institution, an apprentice dietitian, and gives her a 
certificate of the work she has done. After three months of such 
experience, the pupil is able to decide if she wishes to follow 
institutional work, and the management can estimate the pupil's 
ability and adaptability to institutional work. From these 
candidates, with experience in hospitals, appointments are made 
to permanent positions, in preference to inexperienced can- 
didates. This plan has been followed for five years, and ex- 
perience points to but one modification of the scheme — that of 
lengthening the term from three months to at least six months, 
possibly to a year. 



THE NEED OF TRAINED DIETITIANS IN INSTITUTIONS 
FOR THE TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS. 

Herbert Maxon King, M.D., Physician in Chief, Loomis Sanitorium, 
Liberty, Sullivan Countj', Xew York. 

In the institutional care of the tuberculous invalid the most 
difficult problem which presents itself, whether from the point of 
view of therapeutic efficiency or from that of economy, is the one 
of diet. Underfeeding on the one hand and indiscriminate stuffing 
on the other are alike fatal to success in treatment, while a badly 
constructed dietary is usually mischievous and always costly. To 
maintain the highest degree of efficiency in an institution of this 
character, the dietary must, of necessity, be under the supervision 
and control of some one competent and skilled in practical 
dietetics. The ordinary cooks and caterers usually available are 
no more competent to manage the cuisine of a Sanatorium than 
would be the practical but untrained nurse to officiate at a major 
surgical operation. With accumulating experiences it is becom- 
ing more and more evident that an educated and specially trained 
dietitian must be included in the professional staff of a tuber- 
culosis sanatorium. 

Nevertheless, in this country at least, the dietary in most such 
institutions is still left largely in the hands of ordinary cooks and 
even less skilled caterers under the somewhat vague and indirect 
guidance, to be sure, of the physician in charge whose other duties 
render a painstaking and scientific direction of the cuisine well 
nigh impossible. The available funds of the institution com- 
bined with the taste and capacity of the patient practically 
determine his diet. It is not because institutional physicians 
have failed to recognize the need of a more systematic and scien- 
tific plan that such a condition exists, but because of the extreme 
difficulty of finding suitably trained educated dietitians to under- 
take the work. This special and, from the present view point, all 
important field has apparently been neglected — at least it does 
not seem to have been developed — notwithstanding the far 
reaching and most attractive possibilities which it offers. It is a 
comparatively simple matter to secure the services of capable 

67 



68 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

medical assistants and splendidly trained nurses, but quite 
another story to find trained dietitians for sanatorium work. 

As an illustration of what can be accomplished by the intro- 
duction of scientific dietetics in the sanatorium, a recent ex- 
perience in one of the divisions of the Loomis Sanitorium is in- 
teresting and certainly instructive. The Annex is the semi- 
charitable division of this institution, with a capacity of forty 
patients, equally divided as to sex. Only ambulant and presum- 
ably curable cases are admitted and the patients are almost 
exclusively from the working classes. Under my direction the 
administration of this branch of the Sanatorium is in the hands 
of a Medical Assistant and a Superintendent. Under the old 
regime the arrangement of the menus was left largely to a rather 
superior cook, subject to the approval of my Medical Assistant. 
The catering was done by the Superintendent. The three meals 
daily were supplemented in such cases as failed to show weight 
gains by extra diets of milk and eggs, taken between meals. At 
intervals rough estimates of the chemical constituency of the 
food were made. The average consumption per patient per diem 
was approximately: 

Protein 156 grammes 

Fats 215 grammes 

Carbohydrates 323 grammes 

Calories 3960 

This dietary is by no means ideal. The excess of protein and 
fats is at once conspicuous. The bulk of these constituents was 
made up as might be expected from milk, eggs and meat, chiefly 
from the first two. Patients were not restricted as to the choice 
or amount of the fare provided and as a result individual excesses 
in certain constituents were common. The cost of this dietary in 
1905 was approximately 35 cents per patient per diem, but during 
the two years following the increasing price of all food stuffs 
brought the cost up to from 38 cents in the summer to 42 cents in 
winter. From the point of view of therapeutic efficiency, more- 
over, this dietary was faulty, for while weight gains were satis- 
factory, digestive disturbances were common, as might be ex- 
pected, from a diet so constructed. 

Under the new regime the catering and arrangement of the 
menus are entirely in the hands of a trained dietitian (at present 
Miss Charlotte Strickland, a graduate of the Boston School of 



1909] The Need of Trained Dietitians 69 

Domestic Science). The combustion value in calories and the 
chemical constituency as to proteins, fats and carbohydrates are 
from time to time according to varying needs prescribed by my 
assistants or myself. In the dining room there are three distinct 
"messes" — the newcomers and "small eaters" at the Doctor's 
table, the "normals" at a table by themselves and the "working 
corps" composed of convalescents on hard manual labor at the 
nurse's table. 

The exact consumption of each food constituent is measured 
for each table and for each meal and at the close of each day is 
carefully tabulated. Individual excesses and deficiencies are 
guarded against. The food is weighed and m.easured before it 
goes to the patient and the residue is again weighed upon its 
return to the pantry ; the diet is constantly under perfect control. 

The chief cost of a dietary is its protein constituent. As a 
rule the ease with which a protein can be prepared for the table 
is, roughly speaking, a measure of its cost. This is particularly 
true of such commodities as meat. A tender porter-house steak, 
for instance, needs httle time or skill in preparation for the table, 
while a scrag end of beef requires most careful cooking by one who 
understands the art to make it equally attractive, yet a penny- 
worth of the protein of the latter is several times that of the 
former in nutritive value, and when properly prepared and 
garnished is almost equally attractive. 

When eggs are more than twenty-five cents the dozen (and 
fresh eggs are often from thirty-five to forty-five cents) they are a 
very extravagant form of protein, though their preparation for 
food is practically nil. 

It is the recognition of such points which gives the trained 
dietitian every advantage economically over the ignorant cook 
or uneducated caterer. 

Diuing the month of December just past almost all food stuffs 
reached higher prices, I think, than ever before in our experience, 
yet under the new regime at our Annex the cost of the dietary 
(raw material) was only twenty-eight cents per person per day, 
and in nutritive value averaged as follows : 

Table I Table II Table III 

Proteins 129 grammes 132 grammes 139 grammes 

Fats 112 " 116 " 120 

Carbohydrates 389 " 400 " 431 

Calories 3165 3260 3453 



fo The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

This diet is fairly representative of that which we have em- 
ployed during the colder months of the year. Compare it with 
the diet of the old regime and the superiority of its construction is 
at once apparent. With this dietary at this season digestive dis- 
turbances are practically unknown, while weight gains are most 
satisfactory. 

In view of our experience it seems to me no further argument 
is needed to show that the trained dietitian should become an 
integral factor in the staff of the sanatorium. 

This field of dietetics seems to be especially within the sphere 
of woman ; to offer to the capable a broader scope than any one 
may have hitherto realized, and as the demand certainly exists 
we may reasonably expect the supply to be forthcoming. 



The meetings of the American Economics Association, the Ameri- 
can Sociological Society, the American Association for Labor Legislation 
and the American Statistical Association, were held at Atlantic City- 
December 28th-30th, and the programs included several sessions related 
to home economics. Especially was this true of the Sociological Society 
which devoted its entire program to the topic "The Family in Modern 
Society." Among the papers presented, which will doubtless be published 
later in the proceedings of the Society, were the following : 

"How do Home Conditions React on the Family?" — Mrs. C. P. S. Gil- 
man, New York City; "The Effect on Woman of Economic Dependence," 
Charles Zueblin; "The Relation of the Family to Social Change," William 
G. Sumner, Yale University; "Social Diseases and the Family," Dr. 
Prince A. Morrow, New York City; "Are Modern Industry and City Life 
Unfavorable to the Family?," Edward T. Devine, Columbia University, 
and Charles R. Henderson, University of Chicago; "The Family in a 
Typical Mill Town," Miss Margaret Byington; "Influence of Income on 
Standards of Life," R. C. Chapin, Beloit College; "Rural Life and the 
Family," Kenyon L. Butterfield, President of the Massachusetts Agri- 
cultural College; "What is the Effect of the Higher Education of Women 
upon the Family and the Race?," David Collin Wells, Dartmouth College; 
"How does the Access of Women to Industrial Occupations React L^pon 
the Family?" Ulysses G. Weatherly, Indiana University; "The Self- 
Supporting Woman and the Family," Mrs. Lydia K. Commander, New 
York City; "The Statistics of Marriage and Divorce." Joseph Adna Hill, 
United States Census Bureau; "Has the Freer Granting of Divorce 
Proved an Evil?" George Elliot Howard, University of Nebraska: "How 
Far Should the Members of the Family be Individualized?," James E. 
Hagerty, University of Ohio; and "How Far Should Family Property be 
Conserved and Encouraged?," George K. Holmes, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture. 



THE ECONOMIC VALUE OF THE VISITING DIETITIAN. 

Winifred Stuart Gibbs, 
New York City. 

Is it not worth the city's while to teach economic housekeeping, 
so that the families which make up the municipal fabric may con- 
tribute clean, healthy citizens to the country's upbuilding? 
In New York City a philanthropic organization is trying to 
answer this question. It is sending a visiting dietitian into the 
tenement homes, and asks her to face conditions squarely in each 
home, to formulate a course of instruction that shall be prevent- 
tive of further bad conditions if possible, and remedial of present 
ones if necessary. 

Some of the problems which confront the worker are: rous- 
ing the house-mother from the apathy into which her narrow life 
has plunged her; convincing her that to know where she stands, 
in terms of actual money sums at her command, is the first step 
towards bettering her family's condition ; planning the instruc- 
tion so that she can follow the path which leads to the largest 
share of health and consequent efficiency; overcoming dietetic 
prejudices and giving her a knowledge of proper feeding to 
replace the broken down prejudices. 

In the report of a recently formed committee, one of whose 
purpose was to make studies in standards of living, a certain group 
of families is frankly excluded from consideration; that is the 
group whose income is so low that a proper standard cannot 
possibly be maintained, the group whose members must depend 
partially on outside help. This group, and the one next above it, 
the division on the ragged edge of independence, constitute the 
field of the visiting dietitian. What may she accomplish ? 

To begin with group one, where charitable aid is customarily 
necessary, the busy district visitor supplies the family with food 
but she cannot, in the stress of her work, wait to see if the best 
possible use is made of it. Here the visiting dietitian steps in, 
helps the mother to plan her meals, so that the week's supplies 
are made to yield the maximum of strengthening food, teaches 
her how to cook each article and gives her a general idea of its use 
in the body. Rightly used, this knowledge may mean an actual 
saving in the amount the visitor finds it necessary to grant the 

71 



72 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

family for food. Many individuals in this group, however, are 
so far fallen from the normal physical condition that the ordinary 
methods will not suffice. Hence, in picked cases, the association 
is allowing the dietitian to furnish an adequate diet, giving in- 
struction in its preparation. These experiments which have 
been begun recently, promise successful results. In each case 
the main stay of the family is being pushed on to a condition of 
fitness for work. 

In the next group the task is one of support, to prevent the 
family from falling to the group below, and, at the same time, 
one of construction so that it may be carried over the ragged edge 
of independence and firmly established in self-maintenance. 
Even superficial thought will readily show how this may work 
out from properly directed instruction. To consider first the 
supporting process. It is the work of the dietitian to ascertain 
whether the health of the family is normal, and if it is not to give 
such instruction in feeding as to make it so. She cuts off the tea 
and coffee from the children and reduces nervous symptoms 
directly traceable to their use. If there is a nursing mother, she 
is instructed in the diet calculated to provide the baby with 
plenty of milk. The diet of the young children and of the school 
children is prescribed. If there is a case of illness in the family, 
a special dietary is planned after a physician has diagnosed the 
case. All this is with a view to keeping the family from falling 
below its present standard. 

The dietitian's next care is to instruct the housekeeper so that 
she will go on to a higher standard. She instructs her in prices of 
food stuffs, in marketing, in care of food, in its function and in its 
preparation, and she plans with the home keeper a dietary which 
can actually be purchased and one which she knows to be suited 
to the family's needs. Any protests to the effect that the plans 
are beyond the family purse are met in the following manner: 
the instructor buys and cooks the various articles that make up 
the dietary, she uses the utensils at hand and the family partakes 
of the results of this very practical "dietary study" and at this 
point the woman is usually convinced, and, let us hope, adopts 
the new ideas. 

If the gain in health and increased working-power which may 
logically be expected do actually follow, might not increasing the 
number of dietitians put this work definitely among those forces 
which make for civic and national betterment ? 



EDITORIALS. 

The Dietitian's We publish in this issue three articles bearing 
Opportunity on the work of the professional dietitian. 

Each of these articles, in one way or another, 
emphasizes the opportunity for useful service which is open to the 
professional dietitian. In the call for teachers of domestic science 
and other branches of home economics, we must not lose sight of 
the fact that there is an urgent call for trained directors of the 
commissary departments in hospitals, college dormitories and other 
institutions, for visiting experts who can go into needy quarters 
of our cities and instruct individual families; and in general for 
the person who can furnish a balanced and practical judgment 
based upon specialized knowledge of food and nutrition in its 
application to the fam.ily and institutional dietary. If we mis- 
take not, the professional dietitian has one of the most useful and 
promising fields open to workers in home economics, and stu- 
dents who are considering the choice of a speciaHzed line of work 
may well take into account the opportunities for service in this 
particular field. 



, ^ . Teachers and other professional workers in 

Local Organiza- , j .. r i i 

tions home economics are urged to form local 

organizations affiliated with the American 
Home Economics Association. The essential requirement is a 
group whose aims coincide with those of the American Associa- 
tion. All members of local societies are urged to join the Ameri- 
can Association ; membership in the American Association is by 
individuals and not by societies, and persons so joining receive 
the Journal of Home Economics as a privilege of membership. 
Any local home economics association which includes ten per- 
sons with paid up membership in the American Association, is 
entitled to elect a member to the council of the American Home 
Economics Association. The local societies which are already 
seeking affiliation include the Association of Domestic Science 
Teachers of New York City, the Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York, the Pacific Coast Conference on Home 
Economics, and organizations which are being planned in Boston, 
Cleveland, Buffalo, and Lewis Institute. 

73 



y^ The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

The suggestion was made at the Washington 
Denver Meeting, meeting that the American Home Economics 
Association should hold a meeting in connec- 
tion with the National Education Association at Denver in July, 
endeavoring to bring together the workers of the far west, and 
also of the east who could attend, in a program deahng largely 
with educational questions. This meeting would not be part of 
the National Education Association program, but would occur 
during the week of the National Association meeting, and through 
the courtesy of that organization. The arrangement of the 
Denver meetings wdll doubtless soon be taken up by the execu- 
tive committee of the Association, and suggestions will be 
cordially welcomed by the officers of the Association. 

The responsibihty of the consumer for the 
Control of Market, grade of goods offered in the market is sug- 
gested in this query: "Are the schools of 
domestic science and the women's clubs always going to accept 
meekly the articles that manufacturers choose to place before 
them in the shops? By co-operation it should be possible in a 
few years to drive out of the stores ornate cook-stoves, tin and 
glass utensils with rough edges that cut the hands while using and 
washing, saucepans made for left-handed persons, and pitchers 
that cannot be washed inside, and many other appliances that 
hinder the routine tasks of the household or make their per- 
formance unpleasant." 

The convention at Washington took action 
The Davis Bill. approving the general provisions of the "Davis 
Bill" which proposes Federal aidfor vocational 
education. Since the Convention adjourned the bill has been 
further revised, and it is believed improved. While action on the 
bill can scarcely be expected in the remaining days of Congress, 
the members of the Association will do well to inform themselves 
regai-ding its provisions and take such active steps as they can 
in its support. 

The Journal has been requested to print articles on school 
lunch rooms, and also reports of w^hat various women's clubs 
have done this year in home economics. 

Copies of the photograph, which appears as a frontispiece, 
may be secured at seventy-five cents. 



ILLUSTRATIVE MATERIAL FOR DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 

Successful teaching in domestic science depends to a consider- 
able degree upon the use of suitable illustrative material. Especi- 
ally is this true in the teaching of foods, and nowhere more than in 
the discussion of marketing. A partial list of suggestions is 
made herewith, in the hope that other suggestions may be 
contributed. 

There are at present quite a number of meat charts and illustra- 
tions of cuts of meat available for the domestic science teacher. 
Several of these have been published by different schools of 
domestic science and can be purchased from them. The individ- 
ual teacher can often make her own charts on brown paper or on 
cloth, coloring them as desired with water colors. Some of the 
government bulletins contain well-drawn illustrations of cuts of 
meat which could be reproduced in this way. A drawing instru- 
ment called the pantagraph, which reproduces a drawing on a 
larger scale, might well be included in the equipment of domestic 
science teachers; it would be found useful for the enlarged re- 
production of illustrations. Another way to utilize the illustra- 
tions found in the government bulletins, is to make blue-print 
reproductions of them which can be distributed to the individual 
members of the classes. Some of the following bulletins will be 
found especially useful with regard to illustrations for copying: 
Farmers' Bulletin. No. 34, Meats — Composition and Cooking; 
Farmers' Bulletin, No. 183, Meat on Farm — Butchering and Cut- 
ting; Bulletin No. 28, revised. Chemical Composition of American 
Food Materials. 

Among the larger charts which are available for domestic 
science instruction, mention should first be made of those pro- 
duced by the Pratt Institute of Brooklyn, New York, illustrating 
beef, veal, mutton and pork, and which cost ten dollars. The 
Domestic Science Department of Teachers College, Columbia 
University has also issued certain plates which are reproduced 
and which can be obtained either on paper or cloth. They 
represent the hind-quarter of beef, and the whole animal. The 
prices for these prints which are 2x3 ft. in size are as follows: 

Blue-print, on paper, $.75; blue-print, on cloth, $1.00; black- 
print, on paper, $1.25; black-print, on cloth, $1.50; for mount- 
ing and painting, $.75 extra, 

75 



^6 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Teachers College also issues a small blue-print giving five 
pictures of various cuts of meat for twenty-five cents, also a set 
of six black-and-white photographs of cuts of beef "New York 
cuts," each 4x9 inches, at seventy-five cents for the set. Two 
charts giving small cuts of beef and mutton, made in Brussels, 
Belgium, can be obtained from Whitcomb and Barrows, Hunt- 
ington Chambers, Boston, Mass., at $1.00 each. 

Under the head of illustrative material for domestic science one 
should mention photographs and lantern-slides, illustrating foods 
and their manufacture and production, public markets and other 
related topics. Various firms furnish such slides and photographs. 
A set of twenty-one slides on the Respiration Calorimeter, 
reproduced from a Carnegie Institution publication, can be 
secured from the Educational Museum of Teachers College for 
$8.40. 

Readers who have found other illustrative material of use are 
asked to send information regarding it to the Journal. 



Housekeepers of The Housekeepers' Alliance of Washington, D. C, is 
Washington investigating the subject of domestic service this win- 

ter. According to a statement recently adopted by 
the Club, present unsatisfactory conditions in household service are due in 
part to the following causes: 1, Inadequate training and lack of proper 
relations between employer and employee ; 2, Lack of a reference system; 
3, Lack of proper recognition of long terms of service; 4, Unsanitary 
lodgings with attendant harmful influence upon health, morals and effi- 
ciency for those who must lodge away from the home of the employer. 

As remedies, the Alliance suggests better knowledge of conditions of 
work among employers, a training-school for employees, the adoption of a 
"reference system" whereby all members of the Alliance shall keep a 
definite record of their employees, an Honor Roll for efficient employees 
who have been in service for long terms, and efforts to improve housing 
conditions of the working class. The Alliance has also gone on record as 
recommending the wearing of washable garments rather than woolen, in 
the performance of household work. 

The Club has had a number of meetings on this general topic, a t>'pical 
meeting being the recent one addressed by Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, of 
Baltimore, on the "German Reference System for Household Employees." 

The Alliance has taken up the work of a committee of women who had 
already equipped a kitchen for the training of domestics and 
plans to open a sanitary laundry immediately. Under the leadership of 
Miss Emma S.Jacobs, Director of Domestic Science in the Public Schools, 
a class has been formed which meets bi-monthly for the study of House- 
hold Economics. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE IN NEW YORK CITY SCHOOLS. 

The Journal is glad to print the following communication 
from the Director of Domestic Science in the New York City 
Schools. Similar statements from other cities would be of 
interest. 

To the Editor Journal of Home Economics. 

I received so many inquiries regarding the extension of Domes- 
tic Science in the public schools of New York City during our 
visit to Washington for the purpose of organizing the American 
Home Economics Association that I felt that I could best fulfil, 
through the Journal, my promises to send such information to 
those who inquired. 

In 1888, when Domestic Science was introduced experiment- 
ally into the schools of New York City, it was taught in only one 
borough — Manhattan, and only in nine elementary schools. 
During the eight years from 1888 to 1896, only two schools were 
added, making a total in 1896, when the Director was appointed, 
of II schools. Today, twelve years after the appointment of the 
Director, the subject is taught in all the boroughs and in 174 
elementary schools as follows: Manhattan, 64; Bronx, 20; 
Brooklyn, 46; Queens, 32; Richmond, 12. In addition to this 
extension in elementary schools the work has been further ex- 
tended to the following high schools: Washington Irving High 
School, 12th St., Manhattan and its three annexes — 13th St., 
82d St., and Grand St.; the Manual Training High School, 
Brooklyn; Eastern District High School, Brooklyn; Bryant 
High School, Brooklyn ; Training School, Brooklyn. In addition, 
it is most gratifying to be able to report that the Committee on 
High Schools of the Board of Education has this year granted 
the application of the director for the further extension of 
Domestic Science into all high schools. Besides the day schools 
we have in New York 3 5 evening elementary and 5 evening high 
schools, and 27 vacation schools. 

This remarkable growth of domestic science in the New York 
public schools is due, of course, to its increase in popularity with 
the Board of Education and with the public, but to gain this 
popularity has always required patient, persistent effort on the 

77 



78 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

part of the Director, and ability, devotion, self-sacrifice and 
enthusiasm on the part of the teacher, crowned by absolute unity 
between them. It has won approval on its merit as a moral 
factor in education. Even to the officials in immediate charge of 
the courses of study, an appeal upon a scientific basis seldom 
succeeds. One man was heard to say, "Well, if you have not 
teachers who can teach a class to make and bake bread in eighty 
minutes you had better get a new set." That it finds favor upon 
a moral basis is shown in many ways. So eminent an authority 
as Sir Lauder Brunton of London, England, in his lectures to the 
London physicians, said, in a quotation often used by the Direc- 
tor in appealing for an extension of Domestic Science : 

"Some may think that, in speaking of cookery as a moral agent I am 
greatly exaggerating its power, and they may regard it as idle folly if I go 
still further and say that cookery is not only a powerful moral agent in 
regard to individuals, but may be of great services in regenerating a nation. 
Yet, in saying this, I believe I am speaking quite within bounds, and I 
believe that schools of cookery for the wives of working men in this coun- 
try will do more to abolish drinking habits than any number of tee-total 
associations. I do not at all mean to say that the vigorous efforts of tee- 
total societies — Good Templars, Blue Ribbon Army and others — have 
been altogether a failure, but I do not think that their plan will ever be 
crowned with complete success, and I believe there is a better way of 
obtaining their object." 

The replies called forth by a little pamphlet entitled "The Mis- 
sion of the Ideal Woman," issued by the Director, demonstrates 
the public attitude towards Domestic Science. This pamphlet 
gives one of the Director's favorite definitions of Domestic Science 
— Motherhood. One Commissioner of the Board of Education 
writes : 

"Domestic Economy has been to me a subject of great interest in con- 
nection with the education of our girls. My own convictions are so strong 
that I would put it as the culminating course in every woman's education. 
The effect of this branch of education would be the greatest force in over- 
coming idleness, thriftlessness and vice, that we could introduce into our 
curriculum." 

Still another member of the Board of Education writes; 

"Could all mothers be like Rollo's (The Ideal Woman) we should need 
no truant schools, no defective classes, and no part-time classes. It is 
much more difficult, however, to make old mothers over than to form new 
mothers in the right way from our younger generation, and that work 
must be slowly and patiently accomplished through your department 
mostly." 



1909] Domestic Science in New York City Schools 79 

Some Domestic Science teachers become discouraged because 
school officials do not seem to appreciate the value of the scientific 
side of the %vork in our schools. But to me, that seems immaterial 
so long as they place the teaching in the hands of experts, and 
permit them to impart a knowledge of the theory as well as the 
practice of housekeeping. For instance what does it matter 
whether the Board with the power to adopt courses of study 
thinks that bread can be made and baked in twenty minutes so 
long as it permits us to give the following lessons which appear in 
our New York course of study : 

"Bread. Study of Yeast; effects of mixing, kneading, rising. Relation 
of Yeast Bread to Quick Bread. Comparative Study of Flours; digesti- 
bility and food value of yeast breads and quick breads; baking powder; 
generation of gas by acids and carbonate alkalies; resulting salts; adul- 
teration. 

Here, as in every branch of the course — cooking, housekeeping, 
laundry and nursing lessons, we have ample opportunity for the 
teaching of bacteriolog}', physiology, chemistry and physics, and 
their resultant effects on economy and health to the household, 
and we know that the next generation of housekeepers will have 
a better appreciation of the science of home-making; that we are 
qualifying the future mothers for this intelligent appreciation, 
and that school boards are in duty bound to so equip their stu- 
dents for the work in life. I will conclude with an excerpt from 
a report to the Board of Superintendents dated November 9th, 
1908: 

"The Domestic Science course in the elementary schools is the training 
course for the mothers of the future. Every Xew Yorker knows that 
Training Schools are provided by the Board of Education where high 
school graduates who wish to become school teachers, receive two years 
special training for that profession. But very few of our citizens, even 
the parents of public school children, know that a special training for 
teachers in the larger and much more important school, the home, is given 
to the classes of the last two years of the elementary schools. A large 
majority of these pupils who are prepared for teaching in the greater 
school, never go to the high school nor the training school and more is the 
pity. Most of them become teachers in the great school of the home — 
trainers in their turn of the next generation of children who will fill our 
schools. Not alone are they trainers, as are other teachers, but the veiy 
authors of the beings whom we receive into our schools, and who are but 
the reproductions of the home teachers we have graduated. For these 
home teachers trained in our elementary schools are the first to marry. 



8o Tlie Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

They enter into the duties of their profession much earHer and in much 
greater numbers than those other teachers whose work is confined to the 
class room, and their duties and responsibiUties are far greater in the mak- 
ing of good citizens. They become the first teachers of the nation — the 
mothers. 

"All the other teachers are but assistants to the head teacher, the 
mother. She has the exclusive care of the child's education for the first 
five years of its life before it reaches the school teacher — years in which the 
whole health, physical, mental and moral, is in large measure made or 
unmade for the future. After the fifth year she still holds the controling 
influence over the child's hfe. Surely she should be well equipped for 
such important work." 

Jan. 29, 1907. Mary E. Williams, 

Director of Domestic Science, New York Public Schools, and of Summer 

Course of New York University. 



A Bakers' A "Bakers' Institute" was held at the University of 

Institute Wisconsin in October under the direction of the Uni- 

versity Extension Division which brought together a 
great many professional bakers from all over the state. A very practical 
program was arranged including papers and discussions on the following 
topics : 

Bakers' Raw Materials from the Standpoint of National and State Pure 
Food Laws; Wheat, and the Inner Structure of the Grain as Related to 
Flour and Bread; Varieties of Wheat as Related to Flour Making; Milk 
and Cream — Composition, Care, Testing; Flour, Composition, Varieties, 
Methods of Testing; Fermentation in Bread Making — Yeasts, Malt 
Extracts; The Mutual Interests of Baker and Housekeeper; Sanitary 
Delivery of Bakers' Products; Food Value of Bread; Baking Tests, 
Practical Demonstrations; and Bake Shop Hygiene and Sanitation. 

The speakers included representatives of the United States food labora- 
tories, University of Wisconsin, United States Department of Agriculture 
and the City Health Departments. The Institute was a great success. 
Director Louis E. Reber said: "The bakers were very much pleased with 
what they got from it and the interest which they manifested during the 
entire eight sessions was really remarkable. They are clamoring for 
another institute. We expect to continue this kind of work with them." 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Note — Any of the following books can be ordered through the 
Journal of Home Economics, 525 W. 120 St., New York City, at the 
publishers price. 

Lake Placid Conference on Home Economics. Proceedings of the Tenth 
Annual Conference, by special invitation held at Chautauqua, N. Y., 6-10 
Jul/ 1908. pp. 218. Lake Placid Club. Essex Co., New York. Price 
$.50. 

The Report of the Proceedings of the Tenth Annual Meeting of the Lalre 
Placid Conference on Home Economics is a valuable contribution to the 
literature on the subject. The outline of that session held at Chautauqua, 
N. Y., July 6-10, 1908, includes a wide range of topics discussed as has 
been customary at these conferences. A comprehensive survey of tlie 
work in home economics, as carried on at present in all the provinces of 
Canada, was given by representatives from the different schools and 
colleges. An outline and discussion of secondary school courses and 
courses which might be offered as college preparatorj'^ work was presented 
in the report of the Teaching Section meetings. Progress toward recog- 
nition of the work in this subject, as of a nature for which college entrance 
credit may be given, was reported. Miss Day of the University of Mis- 
souri gave an outline of a "general survey course" in home economics 
which ought to inspire any student to desire a fuller course after taking it. 

The report of progress in food and nutrition by Dr. Langworthy is 
most valuable. It outlines all the experimental work of the year, gives a 
list of government bulletins issued during the year and refers to the books 
and articles published elsewhere which the student of nutrition should 
know. 

The study of textiles as presented by Miss Crooks should certainly 
have, as was suggested in the discussion following its presentation, wide 
publication and discussion in women's clubs "as an aid toward labeling 
or standardizing textiles similar to the pure food laws." 

To many, Mrs. Richards' address upon the history and aims of the Lake 
Placid Conference through the ten years since its organization will have 
peculiar value and interest. As the leading inspiration of the Conference 
from the first, Mrs. Richards in her resume presents the steps of progress 
until the Lake Placid Conference was merged into the new American 
Home Economics Association. Those interested in the growth of the 
movement could find no better statement of it. 

These are but a part of the valuable articles included in the volume. — 
Bertha Terrill. 

Human Foods. Harry Snyder, B.S., pp. 325, illustrated. MacMillan 
Co. 

Mr. Snyder is Professor of Agricultural Chemistry in the University of 
Wisconsin, and prepared this book as a textbook for his own students. It 
takes up the principles of human nutrition; the common foodstuffs; 
some of the physical, chemical and bacteriological changes which affect the 

81 



82 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

digestibility and nutritive value of foods; dietary studies; comparative 
cost and value of foods; experiments and laboratory practice. The 
chapter on food asaffected by household sanitation and storage is excellent. 
It gives a concise presentation of the subject from the home point of view 
which is concerned with keeping people well, rather than with the cure of 
disease. The arrangement is admirable, and the book will meet the de- 
mand for a textbook of moderate size and price. — Mary Urie Watson. 

How the World is Fed. Frank George Carpenter, pp. 362, illustrated. 
New York: American Book Company. Price $.60. 

This is a standard supplementary reader in which the author takes the 
children on personally conducted tours to the great food centers of the 
world. Its purpose as indicated in the preface is to give "a knowledge of 
the production and preparation of foods and to show how civilization and 
commerce grew from man's need of foods and the exchange of foods be- 
tween the different nations of the earth." It is an admirable book which 
would be very useful in connection with elementary and secondary school 
classes in cookery. — Edna L. Skinner. 

Applied Physiology. Robert Hutchison, M.D., F.RC.P. pp. 289. 
Edward Arnold. London. Price $2. 

Robert Hutchinson's "Food and Dietetics" is familiar to most Home 
Economics teachers. They will do well to add this volume to their 
libraries for the sake of three chapters, namely the chapters on the ap- 
plied physiology of metabolism, on digestion, and on excretion. These 
will prove of value to dietetic students in particular. — Marj' Urie Watson. 

Seven Centuries of Lace. Mrs. John Hungerford Pollen, 120 full-page 
illustrations, MacMillan & Co., New York: William Heineman, London. 
1908. Price $7.50. 

As Alan C. Cole says in his preface, the illustrations in this book make 
it a "valuable encyclopaedia of the designs and textures to be seen in 
laces and cognate fabrics." The description of the plates together with 
the very full glossary would mean much to a student of lace. Mrs. Pollen 
has studied the development of lace and traces the stitches used from the 
Coptic embroideries of the third to fifth century up to the middle of the 
last century; and presents illustrations of work during the last seven 
centuries. She divides laces into two classifications, needle and bobbin, 
and each plate is described with reference to the method used, the design, 
and the approximate date. The book is an excellent one for reference. 
— Elizabeth Sage. 

Die Unterscheidung von Baumwolle and Leinen (How to Distinguish 
between Cotton and Linen) by Prof. Dr. Alois Herzog, Head of the De- 
partment for the Investigation of Flax, in the Prussian Higher Technical 
School for Textiles at Sarau, Nieder Lausitz. Second Edition, Pamphlet 
35 pages, 25 illustrations, price 1.50 marks ($.40). Published by the 
Verlag fur Textile-Industrie. Berlin, Germany. 

This small pamphlet of 35 pages, is a condensed, practical statement of 
the best means of testing materials made by the union of cotton and 
linen, and cottons finished to appear like silk either by the finishing pro- 
cesses or by mercerizing. These tests are taken from different authors 
and experts to whom credit is given. The book is, in a great measure, 



1909] Books and Literature 83 

intended for those who are not technically trained, but who need such 
knowledge in the carrying on of their business. The tests are divided into 
two main classes, those which can be made without a microscope, and 
those that require one. Most of the tests are accompanied by two un- 
usually clear photographic illustrations, showing in magnified form the 
details of each result. These illustrations make the pamphlet of great 
value. There are also two colored plates. 

Among the physical tests are : the tearing of cotton and linen fabrics, 
the untwisting of the linen and cotton threads, oil tests, tests by light. 
The results of these tests are carefully discussed. The sulphuric acid 
methods are stated and especially, the chemical tests by dyeing. In the 
union fabrics, the cotton and linen fibres are distinguished by the different 
manner in which they take the dye. In the microscopic tests, after dis- 
cussion of the nature of the difference between the two fibres, micro- 
chemistry is largely used in the experiments. There is no book in English 
on this subject, exclusively. This gives the work an added value. 
— Nellie Crooks. 

The Methods of Textile Chemistry, being the syllabus of a lecture course 
adapted for use in textile laboratories, by Frederic Dannerth, Ph.D., 
Consulting Industrial Chemist (formerly of the Department of Chemistry 
and Dyeing, Philadelphia Textile School). Publishers, John Wiley & 
Sons. New York, pp.146. Price $2.00. 

This little book, a syllabus of the author's lecture course in Textile 
Chemistry, is the only small book of the kind published in English. It 
can be used by the student with or without some standard manual of 
chemical analysis. While written for advanced students of textile 
chemistry, it is so clear and definite that much of it can be used by the 
ordinary textile or chemistry student. It is divided into four parts; 
Part I. Qualitative Analysis; part 2. Quantitative Analysis; part 3. 
Materials, processes and products; part 4. Glossary of all textile terms 
used. 

Part 2 is the most valuable section of the book to the ordinary student, 
as it states the methods for analyzing mixed and adulterated fabrics. It 
gives methods for detecting chemically the adulteration of wool, and 
numerous methods for the analysis of cotton and silk, silk and wool, and 
waterproof fabrics. Tensile strength of yam, and the tests to determine 
the fastness of dyed fabrics, are also given. A ver\' full glossary com- 
pletes the volume. — Nellie Crooks. 

Home Problems from a New Standpoint. Caroline L. Hunt, pp. 145. 
Boston: Whitcomb and Barrows. Price $1.00. 

What the home may be as a factor in the development of the individual 
is effectively set forth in these pages. The topics treated are More Life 
for the different individuals of the family — the woman, the man, the 
household employee — through the elimination of the unessential and the 
development of special talents; More Physical Vigor for All; More Joy in 
Mere Living; More Beauty for All — with an admirable definition of 
simplicity as a means of adjustment of life, and not an end; More Pleasure 
for the Producer and More Conscience for the Consumer — the two aims 



84 TJtc Jounial of Home Economics [Feb. 

■working together for brotherhood; and New Work for the Home — its 
relation to, and responsibiUty for, the outside world. The author has 
faith in the permanence of the home, whatever changes its outward form 
may undergo. "Home is the expression of afTection," and the need of the 
home will never be less. Elimination, concentration, co-operation should 
not frighten us with visions of disrupted homes, but be recognized as 
opportunities for the simplification of the machinery and the development 
of the larger life. The book is permeated with a sane optimism, and 
should prove suggestive even to those who have read widely on this latter- 
daj' subject. — Gertrude Dibble. 

Charities and the Commons. A weekly journal of philanthropy and 
social advance, Edward T. Devine, editor, Xew York and Chicago, price 
ten cents a cop^^ $2 .00 a year. 

This magazine is the chief organ of a new movement which might be 
termed "social architecture." It presents each week all the important 
movements throughout the country tending toward the betterment of the 
common welfare. Charities was established some ten years ago as an 
organ of charity work in New York City, but under its present manage- 
ment it has become a national journal of social economy; and one may 
express the hope that some time the name of the journal may be changed 
to better express the field it covers. There is no other magazine published 
which comes so closely into touch with the whole field of home economics 
as Charities and the Commons. One of its inost interesting projects at 
present is the publication of the Pittsburg Survey which appears in three 
large magazine issues of January, February, and March. This is the 
official report of what is perhaps the most complete and accurate repre- 
sentation of living conditions in a community yet made. Another recent 
article in Charities of typical interest is Economic Dietetics by Ira S. Wile, 
M.D., in the Januar\' gth number. Dr. Wile, in this brief article urges 
that instruction in dietetics would cause : 

(i) A reduction in the weekly cost of food; (2) A reduction in the waste of 
food; (3) A reduction in the indigestibility of foods. 

As a result there would be : 

(i) fewer improperly nourished, anaemic children; fewer tuberculous 
children; (2) fewer dyspeptic, neurotic adults; (3) Healthier homes; 
(4) More eflficient workers; (5) A higher standard of living. 

Articles on the standard of living in country and city, social work, book 
reviews, all manner of information of direct utility in home economics in- 
struction, abound in this magazine. An instructor might well as one 
feature of a course in home economics, acquaint students with its con- 
tents. A single subscription would have great value for reference. — B. R. 
Andrews. 

Lost Homes and New Flats, by Mrs. Annie Groser Hurd, Fortnightly 
Re\new, November, 1908. 

This is a discriminating article on the present tendency to weaken the 
spiritual values in family life under urban conditions. "We are now-a- 
days always just coming or going, and a flat is specially constructed to get 
away from." * * * "Although it may be possible to make homes without 
kitchens, or babies, or flowers, or memories, or cupboards," many city 



1909] Books and Literature 85 

people are failing to do so, and the spirit of indictment drawn by Mrs. 
Hurd is just. 

The December Bulletin of the Kansas State Board of Health, contains 
articles on "The Score-card in Sanitary Inspection Under the Kansas 
Food and Drugs law" by S. J. Crumbine, M.D., Chief Food and Drug In- 
spector, and "The Score-card in City Milk Inspection," by J. C. Kendall, 
State Dairy Commissioner. 

Teachers of home economics will do well to inquire regarding the publi- 
cations of their state board of health. 

Daily Consular and Trade Reports, the Bureau of Manufactures, De- 
partment of Commerce and Labor, Washington, D. C. 

These reports often contain information pertinent to the field of home 
economics; for example, the issue of Friday, Xovember 18, 1908, has an 
eight page article on Wages and Living Conditions of the Mill Operatives, 
Dundee Jute Industry, besides useful briefer items as that on "Living Rates 
in Calcutta." 

Salary Loan Business in New York City, by Clarence W.Wassam, Ph.D., 
with extracts from an Unpubb'shed Report by Frank Julian Wamer,Ph.D., 
New York. Charities Publication Committee, 1908. In paper, 75 cents. 

This book reports an inductive study of one sub-topic of personal and 
family finance — the securing of loans on salaries. "That borrowing is 
often a necessity to those who have no means beyond their salaries and 
have no friendly source to which they can apply is plain. That such per- 
sons cannot afford to borrow on the onerous terms now offered by those 
who supply this need is equally plain. The loan problem for those who 
can borrow on the pledge of personal property has been partially solved in 
New York by the Organization of the Provident Loan Society (1894), and 
elsewhere by societies on like lines. This problem has evidently not been 
solved for those who have salaries and who have no personal property to 
pledge." 

In one case reported, a man borrowed $150.00 from loan companies in 
nineteen months, and paid for it $665.00, with $150.00 still due. Fear of 
exposure to employer keeps the victim in the toils. The author recom- 
mends as remedies: complete publicity; co-operation by employers to 
prevent extortion; complete confidence between man and wife regarding 
family finance (suggesting, by the way, the ethical element which home 
economics workers must emphasize increasingly) ; legislation regarding 
rates and conditions of loans; regulation regarding deceptive advertising. 
Finally, a protective law proposed for New York State is given. This 
study, which was made under the Russell Sage Foundation, admirably 
illustrates the way in which the various elements in individual and family 
finance, as indeed of all factors in social welfare, must be attacked singly 
and data compiled upon which remedial action may be based. — B. R. A. 

Cyclopedia of American Agriculture, edited by L. H. Bailey, Cornell 
University; The Macmillan Company; price in four imperial octavo 
volumes, the set, cloth, S20.00; half morocco, $32.00. 

The fourth volume has as its general theme, "the farm and the 
community." It should be of help to home economics teachers who deal 
especially with problems of rural life. 



THE ELECTED OFFICERS. 

An association newly formed brings many persons who are 
strangers to one another into its membership. While it would 
go beyond available space to give a biographical statement 
regarding each member, it has seemed a matter of real interest 
to print in the Journal brief academic statements regarding the 
general officers and councilors-at-large who have been chosen to 
direct the business of the Association. These statements follow: 

ABEL, MRS. MARY HINMAN, Charles Street ext., Baltimore, Md. 
A.B., Elmira College, Elmira, N. Y. Member of Board of Charities, 
Baltimore, and other institutions for public welfare; Founder with Mrs. 
Richards of the New England Kitchen; Chairman of Home Economics, 
Federated Clubs of Maryland. Author of: Lomb Prize Essay for Health- 
ful and Economic Cooking; and Rumford leaflets; books and pamphlets 
on Nutrition and Home Economics. 

ANDREWS, BENJAMIN R., Teachers College, Columbia University, 
525 West r20th Street, New York City. A.B. Cornell University, 1901, 
A.M., 1903; Teacher in Elementary School, 1896-97; Supervisor Educa- 
tional Museum of Teachers College, Columbia University, 1903-1906; 
Teaching Fellow, Teachers College, 1904-05; Director of Neighborhood 
Work, Speyer School of Teachers College, 1906-07; Secretary Depart- 
ments of Domestic Economy, Teachers College, 1907-. Author of papers 
in American Journal of Psychology and in Teachers College Record. 

ARNOLD, SARAH LOUISE, 9 Crescent Avenue, Newton Centre. Mass. 
Bridgewater, Mass. State Normal School; Tufts College, A.M. (honorary). 
General teaching all grades; Principal Training School for Teachers, 
Saratoga, two years; Supervisor of Schools, Minneapolis, seven years; 
Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Boston, seven years; Member Na- 
tional Council of Education N. E. A. Now Dean, Simmons College, 
Boston, Mass. Author of: Stepping Stones to Literature (series); The 
Master Tongue (series, with Prof. Kittridge of Harvard University); 
Reading, How to Teach It; various addresses as, "Reconcilement of Cross 
Purposes in the Education of Women," before N. E. A., 1908. 

BERRY, JOSEPHINE, T., 208 College Avenue, DeKalb, Illinois. 
A.B., Kansas State University, '93; B.S. Columbia University, 1904. 
Librarian, Kansas State Agricultural College; Sup't of Public Schools, 
Waterville, Kansas; Instructor in Department of Household Administra- 
tion University of Chicago; now, Director of Domestic Science, Northern 
Illinois State Normal School, DeKalb. Author of various public addresses 
not published. 

86 



1909] The Elected Officers 87 

BEVIER, ISABEL, University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. Ph.B. Wooster, 
1885; Ph.M. 1888; Summer School, Harvard, 1888; special student. Pro- 
fessor Atwater's Laboratory, 1894; Mass. Inst, of Technology, 1898 
Principal High School, Shelby, O. 1885-1887; Mt. Vernon, O. 1887-1888 
Prof. Natural Science, Pennsylvania College for Women, 1888-1897 
Chemistry, Lake Erie Coll., Painesville, O. 1898-1899; Professor of House- 
hold Science and Head of Department, University of Illinois, 1900-. 
Ass't nutrition investigations, U. S. Dept. Agri., 1894-1899; member 
Jury of Awards, Columbian Expos., 1893; fellow American Association 
for the Advancement of Science, member Chem. Soc, Public Health Ass'n. 
Author of Chemistry of Food; Science of Nutrition; Temp-^rature in the 
Cooking of Meats; The House; Selection and Preparation of Food; 
Laboratory Manual on Food and Nutrition; (with Miss Usher) The 
History of the Home Econofnics Movement. 

BOUTOX, ROSA, Home Economics Hall, University Farm, Lincoln, 
Nebraska. B.Sc, A.M., Nebraska State University. Adjunct Professor 
of Chemistry, University of Nebraska; now. Professor of Home Eco- 
nomics in the University of Nebraska. Author of: newspaper articles; 
Home Study Series A^o. i, Convenient Kitchens, and No. 2, Food a 
Factor in the Home; Cereals and How to Cook Them. 

DAY, EDNA D., 906 Conley Ave., Columbia, Mo. B.S (in biology) 
University of Mich., 1896; M.S. (in botany, embryology and hygiene) 
University of Michigan, 1897; Student under Prof. Bevier, University of 
Illinois, 1903-04; Ph.D. (household administration, physiological botany 
and sociology). University of Chicago, 1906. Teacher of science, Kent 
Place School for Girls, Summit, N. J. and in N. Tonawanda, N. Y.; 
Teacher of biology, chemistry and home economics, three years. Lake 
Erie College, Painesville, Ohio; Teacher of botany, physiology and 
bacteriology in Domestic Science Department at Chautauqua, N. Y. five 
summers; Instructorin home economics. School of Education, University of 
Chicago, summer 1905. Now Ass't Professor in charge of Department of 
Home Economics, University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo. Author of: 
Bulletin No. 212, Office of Experiment Stations, The Digestibility of 
Starch as Affected by Cooking; A pamphlet on A Model Kitchen; A General 
Survey Course in Home Economics in Proceedingsof Lake Placid Conference 
on Home Economics, 1908. 

ELSON, WILLIAM H., Superintendent of Schools, Cleveland, Ohio. 
A.B. Indiana University. Superintendent of Schools, Grand Rapids, 
Michigan; Superintendent of Schools, Superior, Wisconsin; now. Super- 
intendent of Schools, Cleveland, Ohio. Author of numerous articles in 
magazines. Proceedings of N. E. A. etc. 

GEARING, MAMIE E., No. 5, The Savoy, Houston, Texas. Special 
work, Mrs. Janet Hill, Boston, Mass. Domestic Science course, Mrs. J. D. 
Gibson, former Director Domestic Science, Dayton, Ohio, schools. Sum- 
mer work. Teachers College and Columbia University, 1906-07-08. 
Teacher Domestic Science, Houston Schools; Supervisor, Domestic 
Science, High School, Houston. Now, Director Domestic Science Public 
Schools, Houston, Texas. 



88 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

GULDLIX. MRS. OLAF X., 2306 Fairfield Ave.. Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Graduate of the Fort Wayne High School, also of Buchtel College, Akron, 
Ohio. Now, Chairman of the Home Economics Department General 
Federation Woman's Clubs; President Woman's League, Fort Wayne, 
Ind. 

HUNT, CAROLINE L., 119 Main Street, Madison, Wis. A.B., North- 
western University, Evanston, Ills. Teacher Domestic Science, Lewis 
Institute; Professor of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin. 
Now, Editor Home Department La FoUette's Weekly Magazine. Author 
of: Home Problems from a New Standpoint; and various papers in 
Proceedings of Lake Placid Conference, and in magazines. 

JACOBS, EMMA SUTER, 3509 11th Street, N. W., W^ashington, D. C. 
Washington Normal School; trained in Domestic Science under Mrs. 
A. L. Woodbury. Teacher of Cooking from 1887-1891, Director of Cook- 
ing 1891-1903, Director of Domestic Science from 1903- in the Public 
Schools, Washington, D. C. 

KINNE, HELEN, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York 
City. Diploma, Teachers College. President New York City Home 
Economics Association. Now, Professor of Domestic Science, Teachers 
College, Columbia University. Author of various papers in Teachers 
College Record, Proceedings of Lake Placid Conference and other publica- 
tions. 

KOBER, GEORGE MARTIN, 1819 Q Street, Washington, D. C. 
M.D., LL.D., Georgetown University. Physician and Surgeon. Fellow 
A.A.A.S., Wash. Acad, of Sciences; Member of Association of American 
Physicians; Member of President's Homes Commission. Now, Prof, of 
Hygiene and Dean School of Medicine, Georgetown University, Washing- 
ton, D. C. Author of: Milk in Relation to Public Health; House Sanita- 
tion; Industrial Hygiene; Social Betterment and forty-five monographs on 
sanitary and such subjects. 

LANGWORTHY, CHARLES FORD, U. S. Dep't of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. Graduate Middlebury, Vt. College, 1887, A.M., 1900; 
student in chemistry, 1889-1893; Ph.D., Emperor WiUiam University, 
Strassburg, 1893. Instuctor Chemistr>^ Wesleyan University, Conn., 
1893-1895; member American Society, American Forestry Association, 
Society Colonial Wars, etc. ; Associate Editor, Experiment Station Record, 
1895-. Author of: Digest of Metabolic Experiments (with W. O. 
Atwater); Occurrence of Aluminium (with Peter T. Austen) ; Writer of 
and contributor to bulletins Dep't of Agriculture; Contributor to New 
International Encyclopedia, 1902-03; Encyclopedia Americana and to 
chemical and other journals. 

MARLATT. ABBY L., Technical High School, Providence, R. I. 
Master of Science; Special graduate student in psychology at Clark 
L^niversity and in bacteriology at Brown University; Lecturer before 
clubs and in university extension work; Chair Home Economics in Utah 
College, at Logan, Utah; Now, Director of Household Economic Depart- 
ment, Technical High School, Providence, R. I. Author of: Articles on 
Educational Value of Home Economics in magazines. Proceedings of 
Lake Placid Conference, and N. E. A. 



1909] The Elected Officers 89 

MENDEL, LAFAYETTE BENEDICT. 18 Trumbull St., New 
Haven, Conn., A.B., Yale, 91, Ph.D., 93; Breslau, 95-96; Freiburg, 
96. Ass't. physiological chemistry-, Sheffield Scientific School, Yale 
University, 92-94; instructor, 94—97; assistant professor, 97—03, professor 
and member Governing Board, 03; Soc. Nat; Physiol. Soc; Soc. Exp. 
Biol, and Med; Conn. Acad. Now, Professor Physiological Chemistry, 
Yale University. Author of; Chemistry of Digestive Processes; Nu- 
clein Metabolism; Lytnph Formation; etc.; Uric Acid Formation and 
Nticlein Metabolism, Physiological Action of Nucleic Acid and Proteid 
Derivatives; Functions of the Spleen; Chemistry of Growth; Physi- 
ology of Excretion, etc. 

MULLIGAN, CATHARINE ARCHER, State College for Women, Talla- 
hassee, Florida. A.B., Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C, 1895; stu- 
dent Oread Institute, Worcester, Mass. 1901-1902; teacher domestic 
science, Georgia Normal and Industrial College, Milledgeville, S. C, 1902- 
1904, Winthrop Normal and Industrial College, Rock Hill, S. C. 1904-1908. 
Summer School of the South, Knoxville, Tenn., 1908; Head of Depart- 
ment of Home Economics, State College for Women, Tallahassee, Florida, 
1908. Author of Plain Cooker y,{B\x\\eixn No. 1, issued 1907 by Winthrop 
College, Rock Hill, S. C.) 

NORTON, MRS. ALICE PELOUBET, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
111. A.B., Smith College, 1882, A.M., 1897; Student Mass. Institute 
Technology-, 1896-7; Graduate Boston Normal School of Household Arts, 
1896; Teacher Domestic Science, Brookline Mass. High School, and 
Supervisor of Grammar School work, 1896-1900; Teacher Chicago Insti- 
tute, 1900-01; Lecturer at Harvard School of Sociology, 1894; Lecturer 
at Lasell Seminary, Aubumdale, Mass. on house sanitation, 1893-9; 
Lecturer at Y. W. C. A. School of Domestic Science, Boston, 1895-1900; 
Lecturer at Boston Cooking School, 1898-1900; Director Chautauqua 
School of Domestic Science, 1900-1904; Now, Assistant Professor of 
Household Administration, University of Chicago, 190 1-. Author of: 
Food and Dietetics; Articles, in Elementary School Teacher, Smith College 
Monthly, etc. 

PATTEN, SIMON N., Ph.D., LL.D., Logan Hall, Philadelphia, Penn. 
Professor of Political Economy, University of Pennsylvania. Author of: 
Development of English Thought; The Xew Basis of Civilization. 

PINCHOT, GIFFORD, 1615 Rhode Island Avenue, Washington, D. C. 
A.B., Yale, 1889; Nancy, '90. Consulting Forester, '92-98; in charge of 
forestry, Biltmore Estate, '92-94; Member National Forest Commission, 
National Academy, '95-96; confidential forest agent to Sec'y. of the 
Interior, '97; Member Committee on Organization of Government Scien- 
tifi.c Work and of Commission on Public Lands, '03; on Government 
Dep't Methods, '05; Member Country- Life Commission, 1908; Hon. A.M., 
Yale, '01; Princeton, '04. F.A.A.; Forestry Association; Society of 
Foresters; Society Prom. Agr. Sci.; Min. Eng. ; Civil Eng.; Nat. Geog. 
Soc; Am. Geog. Soc; Econ. Assn.; Wash. Academy-; Forester, U. S. 
Department Agriculture, 1898-. 

PUTNAM, GEORGE A., Parliament Buildings, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. B.Sci. Agr., Ontario Agricultural College, Guelph, Ontario. 



go The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Secretary of AgricuUural College, Guelph, Ontario. Now Superintendent 
of Farmers' and Women's Institutes for Province of Ontario. Author of: 
Compilation of Annual Reports of the Department, and occasional 
articles therein. 

RICHARDS, ELLEN H., Mass. Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass. 
A.B., Vassar, 1870; A.M., 1873; S.B., Massachusetts Institute of Techno- 
logy, 1873; instructor. Woman's Laboratory, 1876-84; instructor in 
sanitary chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1884-; 
chemist in charge, Massachusetts State Water Supply Investigations, 1887- 
98; Chairman Lake Placid Conference on Home Economics; author of 
Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning, 1882; Hone Sanitation (with Talbot) 
1887; Food Materials and their Adulterations, Cost of Living, Cost of Food, 
Cost of Shelter; Air, Water, and Food; The Art of Right Living; Sanitation 
in Daily Life; First Lessons in Food and Diet; Cost of Cleanness. 

SABIN, ELLEN, C. Milwaukee-Downer College, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Student University of Wisconsin, 1865-68; A.M. (honorary) University of 
Wisconsin, 1895; Principal grammar school, Madison, Wis., 1869-73; 
Teacher and Principal grammar school, Portland, Oregon, 1873-1885; in 
Europe 1885-6; Supt. city schools, Portland, Oregon, 1887-90; Pres. 
Downer College, Fox Lake, Wis., 1891-1895. President Milwaukee- 
Downer College 1895- Juror of Educational Exhibit, World's Colum- 
bian Exposition, 1893; Member National Council Education, 1886-1899; 
Member N. E. A., Wis. State Federation of Woman's Clubs; Chairman 
Committee on Education of Federation of Women's Clubs for Los Angeles 
Meeting. 

SMEDLEY, EMMA, 6 East Front Street, Media, Penn. Diploma, 
Normal Domestic Science Course, Drexel Institute, Phila., Penn.; In- 
structor in Dietetics, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md. Now, 
Instructor Household Economics, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, Penn. 
Author of : Institution Recipes. 

SNOW, MARY S., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. Ph.M., University 
of Maine (honorary). Principal of City Training School for Teachers, 
Superintendent of Schools, Bangor, Maine. Now, Supervisor of Practice 
Teaching and Instructor in Normal Methods, Department of Domestic 
Science, Pratt Institute. 

STO.XER, MINNA A., University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyoming. 
B.Sc, South Dakota State College; Normal diploma, Boston Normal 
School of Household Arts, now the Mary Heminway Department of 
Household Arts, Framingham, Mass. State Normal; Research work at 
University of Tennessee, 1897, at Wesleyan University, 1902, at University 
of Minnesota, 1907. Investigations in Domestic Art. Instructor of 
Domestic Art, University of Tennessee, 1896-1898; Dean of Women and 
Professor of Domestic Science, Kansas State Agricultural College, 1898- 
1901; Prof, of Domestic Science and Head of Department, Ohio State 
University, 1901-1907. Now, Dean of Women and Professor of Domestic 
Science, State University of Wyoming, 1907- Author of articles in 

magazines on Sanitation, and in various college and other publications; 



1909] The Elected Q-f^icers 91 

Departmental Bulletins, University of Wyoming; and study outline for 
State Federation of Women's Clubs. 

WATSON, MARY URIE, Macdonald Institute, Ontario Agricultural 
College, Guelph, Ontario, Canada. Graduate of Philadelphia Cooking 
School, Philadelphia, Penn.; Graduate of Teachers College, Columbia 
University, New York City. Public school domestic science teacher in 
Hamilton, Ontario, and St. Louis, Missouri. Principal Ontario Normal 
School of Domestic Science and Art, Hamilton, Ontario; Now, Director of 
Home Economics Department, Macdonald Institute, Ontario Agricultural 
College, Guelph, Ontario. 

WILLIAMS, MRS. MARY E., 123 West 183d St., University Heights, 
New York City. Graduate of St. Mary's Academy, N. Y.; Extension 
course for training of teachers. Normal College, N. Y. City; Special 
English course with William L. Evans, LL.D. (of University of Edinburg, 
Scotland), St. David's Hall, Scarsdale, N. Y.; three year complete course 
in literature with Thomas Gafifney TaafJe, M.A., Ph.D., lecturer and pro- 
fessor of English, College of the City of New York; two summer courses 
and one extension winter course in biology and two summers in chemistry 
at the New York University; course in physiology under Dr. Strong of 
the Infants Hospital; private course with privilege of normal class work 
one year at Teachers College; Diploma from Philadelphia Cooking School; 
course in microscopy under Prof. Jonathan Hyatt, Pres. Microscopical 
Society and Principal of P. S. G., Bronx, New York; course in interior 
decoration under Miss Sarah Cannon, Instructor in Manual Training, 
Public Schools of N. Y. Previous positions: teacher of domestic science 
in the public schools of New York City; Principal of School of Telegraphy, 
Cooper Institute, N. Y. City. Now, Director of Domestic Science of the 
Public Schools of New York City, and Director of Domestic Science, New 
York University, Summer School, New York. Author of: "Textbook 
on the Theory and Practice of Cookery," Macmillan Co., N. Y.; Pam- 
phlets on "The Making of the Home Maker," "The Mission of the Ideal 
Woman," "Domestic Science as an Educational Factor," "Damestic 
Science as a Moral Agent," and various newspaper articles. Delivered 
course of lectures at mothers' meetings on domestic science in public 
schools, mothers' clubs and temperance societies in New York and vicinity; 
on home economics, Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences and Drexel 
Institute, Philadelphia; visited professionally the schools in London, 
Paris, Berlin, Dresden. 

WOOLMAN, MARY SCHENCK, 21 West 101st Street, New York City. 
B.S., Columbia University; University of Pennsylvania, two years in at- 
tendance. Many investigations of conditions of women and their educa- 
tion in Europe and Great Britain. Now, Professor Domestic Art, 
Teachers College, Columbia University; Director of the Manhatten 
Trade School. Author of: Sewing Course [fourth edition], monographs 
and numerous articles in magazines, and periodicals." 



NEWS FROM INSTITUTIONS. 

University of Although the Department of Household Administra- 

Chicago tion of the University of Chicago was organized only a 

few years ago and has recently raised its requirements 
for admission, during the last Autumn Quarter there were more registra- 
tions in its senior college courses than in sixteen other departments of the 
University, while there were seven departments that had fewer graduate 
registrations. 

During the past year more students received advanced degrees in the de- 
partment of Household Administration of the University of Chicago than 
in fourteen other departments of the Graduate school. The candidates 
and their thesis subjects were Miss Jenny H. Snow of the University of 
Chicago. "An Experimental Study of the Effects of Different Tempera- 
tures and DitTerent Amounts of Sugar on Fruit Juices;" Miss Bertha 
Mary Terrill of Hartford, Conn., "A Study of Household Expenditures"; 
and Miss Anna Roberta Van Meter of the University of Illinois, "The Func- 
tions of the Trade Mark." 

University of Through the generosity of the Legislature of the State 

Illinois of Illinois, the Department of Household Science of the 

University of Illinois has been able to open a research 
laboratory in connection with this department. The object of this labora- 
tory is to investigate the scientific reasons for domestic processes that are 
matters of common use among housewives. In connection with this 
laboratory the services of a trained chemist. Miss Goldthwaite, Ph.D., have 
been secured. During the present year the chemistry of jelly-making 
has been under investigation, and H is hoped soon to publish some articles 
upon this subject — one, an article dealing with the subject from a scientific 
standpoint, the other a more or less popular one. Later it is proposed to 
continue the work in bread and yeast to which the department has already 
given much attention. 

At the High School Conference held in November 1907,at the University 
of Illinois a desire was expressed to have a syllabus of domestic science for 
the high schools of the state for the sake of unifying the work, and a high 
school assistant who should be ready to give suggestions concerning 
equipment and courses of study. At the next meeting of the High School 
Conference held in November 1908, the committee appointed the previous 
year reported that the syllabus had been made and distributed and much 
interest manifested in it. Miss Pincomb, the high school assistant, re- 
ported that in one third of the counties of the state domestic science was 
taught to the extent that a special teacher is hired and that 43 of the 534 
high schools in Illinois are teaching domestic science. 

The Experimental House of the University of Illinois was opened to the 
public with an exhibit January 20, 1909. The house is to serve a two-fold 
purpose, viz., as a laboratory for undergraduates in the subjects of house 
planning, equipment and care; second, it is to afford for advanced stu- 

92 



1909] News from Institutions 93 

dents an opportunity for experiment and demonstration in the large field 
of house construction and equipment, on sanitary, artistic and economic 
lines. At this exhibit two kitchens and three bedrooms fitted at different 
expense were shown, as well as two dining and two living rooms for the 
same expense, but in different taste; also many household appliances. 
This first exhibit was made largely for the benefit of the School for House- 
keepers, which was held at the University, January 18-30, 1909. The 
daily program of the School was as follows : 

8.00 to 10.00, Kitchen— Foods. 
10.00 to 12.30 Kitchen— Foods. 

1.30 to 2.30 The House (Lecture and Recitation), Miss Bevier, Miss 
Usher. 

2.30 to 3.30, Clothing (Lecture and Recitation), Miss Gibbs. 

3.30 to 4.30, Lecture in Morrow Hall. 

7.30 Lecture in Morrow Hall. 
Some of the topics which were considered were : Bread, yeasts, baking 
powders, food values, meat, uses of left overs, cooking of vegetables, prob- 
lems in jelly making, and household appliances. In addition there were 
special lectures as follows: Two lectures on "The Home Care of the 
Sick," by Dr. Jennie M. Hughes, Champaign, 111.; "Home Management," 
Mrs. H. A. McKeene, President Illinois Ass'n Domestic Science, Spring- 
field, 111. ; "The Daughter's Place in the Home," Miss Harriet H. Rinaker, 
Champaign, 111.; "Jelly Making," Miss Goldthwaite; "The Obligations of 
the Home," Mrs. I. S. Raymond, Sidney, 111.; "Reports from the Field," 
Mrs. Jennie C. Barlow, Champaign, 111.; and "Some Essentials of Home- 
Making," Mrs. Joseph Carter, Champaign, 111. 

Teachers College The Trustees of Teachers College have reorganized 
Coliunbia Uni- the departments of Domestic Administration, 
versity Domestic Art, and Domestic Science as a School of 

Household Arts to be inaugurated in the academic year 1909-10 with 
the occupancy of the new building for these departments which is now 
approaching completion. The School of Household Arts will represent 
a continuation of the professsonal courses for the preparation of teachers 
which have long been carried on at Teachers College, with extensions 
both in the fundamental science courses and in the applied subjects. 
The announcement of courses which is soon to come from the press 
includes some seventy subjects comprised under ten divisions of 
instruction. 

Miss Jane Fales has gone abroad for Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, to study textiles and dressmaking. She will direct the labora- 
tory courses in these subjects at Teachers College on her return next fall. 

University of The Department of Household Science at the Uni- 

Toronto versity of Toronto, is to give a short general course at 

the request of the faculty of education, and it is ex- 
pected that one hundred students under that faculty will attend. Con- 
sideration is also being given at Toronto as to the general course leading to 
the arts degree. The work of the first and second years in arts is pre- 
scribed, with the exception of one subject in each. One part of the work 
of the third and fourth year is largely elective. Household science is an 



94 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

elective in these years and ranks on a par with all other sciences, so that 
students in the arts may specialize in household science in the latter part 
of their course. For some time Household Science has ranked as one of 
the fourteen honor subjects at the University of Toronto, and students 
have been able to take a degree in this department. 

The cornerstone of the new building for the department of household 
science was laid a few weeks since. 



Mrs. Ellen H. Richards during January visited several western institu- 
tions including the University of Chicago, Milwaukee-Downer College, 
Rockford College, and the University of Michigan. She was present at 
the dedication of the new Home Economics Building at the University of 
Nebraska and, delivered an address on "Household Labor in the 20th 
Century." She also addressed the University at Convocation on "The 
Art of Right Living which Results in the Increase of Man Power." While 
at Lincoln, she spoke to the State Home Economics Association on "The 
Woman Who Spends." Mrs. Richards reports that "Nebraska is wide 
awake and ready and anxious to do the best things, and that there is full 
sympathy with all efforts to better living conditions." 



Miss Edith Greer, Director of Domestic Science in Pratt Institute, 
Brooklyn, is spending a few weeks in Italy. Later she will make visits to 
schools in Central Europe. 



Miss Louise Waugh, Instructor in Home Economics at the Pennsylvania 
State College, gave instruction daily during "Farmers' Week," Decem- 
ber 30th to January 6th, at the State College. 



A novel and commendable use of the training in home economics is 
being made by two of the graduates from the course at Milwaukee-Downer 
College. They are running a cafeteria for the day students, thus acquiring 
experience in buying, providing for and pleasing their patrons, in addition 
to practice in the preparation of food. 



The Department of Domestic Economy, at the University of Wyoming, 
has been re-named the Department of Home Economics, and it has been 
organized as part of the Department of Liberal Arts of the University. 



LIST OF ORIGINAL MEMBERS OF AMERICAN HOME 
ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

LIFE MEMBERS. 

Mr. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, N. Y. 
Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, X. Y. 
Miss Grace H. Dodge, 262 Madison Avenue, Xew York City. 

REGULAR MEMBERS. 

Abbott, L. R., 117 Barclay St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Abel, Mrs. John J., P. O. Station L, Baltimore, Md. 
Acheson, Miss Rebecca P., Hill Institute, Florence, Mass. 
Adams, Amanda McCormick, Central High School, Detroit, Mich. 
Adams, Ella C, 216 Douglas Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Adams, Helen, 11 1 Hart St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Adams, Henrietta, 613 S. 5th, St. Springfield, 111. 
Allen, Annie E., 263 Harvard Street, Cambridge A. Mass. 
Allen, Bessie May, Ontario Ladies College, Whitby, Ontario. 
Allen, Charles R.. Xew Bedford, Mass. 

AUingham, Miss Grace, State Normal School, Peru, Nebraska. 
Anderson, (Miss) Annie O., 1229 Downing St., Denver, Colo. 
Andrews, Benjamin R., 609 W. 135th St., Xew York City. 
Aray, Mrs. Leonora E., Alcorn A. & M. College, Alcorn, Miss. 
Armstrong, Lillian M., Drexel Institute, Phila., Pa. 
Arnold, Miss Man,' S., McKinley School, Spokane, Wash. 
Arnold, Sarah Louise, Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 
Atwater, (Miss) Helen W., Office of Experiment Station, Dep't. of Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. C. 
Augur, Miss Edna, 549 West 123d St., X. Y. City. 
Austin, Mrs. Idah R., Sage College, Ithaca, X'. Y. 
Axtell, Sarah B., 152 Chadwick Ave., X'ewark, X. J. 

Bacon, Miss Margaret J., 53 Rawley St., Rochester, X. Y. 

Bacon, Mrs. Man.' A. C, Kennett Square, Pa. 

Baederston, Miss L. Ray, 511 West i22d St., X. Y. City. 

Baer, Miss Edith, Drexel Inst. , Phila., Pa. 

Baldt, Miss Laura I., 501 West 123d St., Xew York City. 

Baldwin, Bertha, Teachers College, X'ew York City. 

Baldwin, Mr. W. A., Hyannis, Mass. 

Barber, Miss Carrie B., Xorthfield Seminary, E. Xorthfield, Mass. 

Barclay, Miss Josephine, Champaign, 111., P. O. Box 228. 

Barclay, Sophie C. (Mrs. DeLancev H.), 14 East Franklin St., Baltimore, 

Md. ' 
Barnard, Charles, Darien, Conn. 
Bamicle, Grace V., 6 Willow Place, Brooklyn, X.Y. 
Bamett, Miss Xellie M., 2206 WiUiams St., BeUingham, Wash. 

9S 



96 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Bamum, Mrs. Nathaniel C, Pittsford, Monroe County, New York. 

Barrows, Anna, Teachers College, New York City. 

Barrows, Mary, Huntington Chambers, Boston, Mass. 

Bartholow, Miss S. C, 1236 Howard St., Washington, D. C. 

Bartlett, Ellen M., 1233 St. Charles St., Alameda, Cal. 

Bartlett, Katherine R., 17 Orange St., St. John, New Brunswick, Canada. 

Beach, Miss Rebecca D., 78 Wall St., New Haven, Conn. 

Beard, Mrs. Bella, Knoxville, 111. 

Becker, Bertha M., 254 West 98th St., New York City. 

Becker, Miss Antonetta, Manhattan, Kansas. 

Beecher, Hadassah C, Whittier Hall, Columbia University, New York 

City till Feb. i, 1909. Albert Lea College for Women, Albert Lea, 

Minn. 
Bell, Miss Martha T., 20 E. Oak St., Denton, Texas. 
Benedict, Cornelia Golay (Mrs. Francis G.), 1905 Bellevue Street, Boston, 

Mass. 
Benedict, Miss May D., Mechanics Institute, Rochester, N. Y. 
Benson, Miss C. C, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 
Benton, Miss Eliza, 510 West 124th St., New York City. 
Bergtold, Cora L., 11 15 Ferry Ave., Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
Berry, Josephine T., 208 College Ave., DeKalb, 111. 
Berwin, Harriet, Whittier Hall, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Bevier, Isabel, Urbana, 111. 

West, Miss Clara Linforth, Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa. 
Birdseye, Miriam, 50 Morningside Ave. West, New York City. 
Bissell, Frances, Brooks Hall, Barnard College, New York City. 
Blackman, Edith, 128 West Franklin St., Baltimore, Md. 
Blackman, Miss E. M., 6054 Monroe Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Blair, Mrs. Margaret J., 14 16 Raymond Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
Boggs, Lucinda Pearl, 811 West Illinois St., Urbana, III. 
Bolton, Mary F., 3217 Diamond St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Bosworth, Miss Elizabeth T., 35 Spring St., Newport, R. I. 
Boulden, Harriet M., 76 Byron St., Huntington, Ind. 
Bousquet, S. Marie, Pella, Iowa. 
Bouton, Rosa, University Farm, Lincoln, Neb. 
Boyer, Harriet A., 1831 Peters Ave., New Orleans. La. 
Bradford, Mrs. Sarah Polk, Woodstock, Nashville, Tenn. 
Bray, Miss Evelyn, London, Ont., Canada. 

Breckinridge, S. P., Green Hall, University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 
Brockett, Miss Myrn, 225 Ewing St., Chicago, 111. 
Broenniman, Mrs. Eleanor R., Franklin, Mass., until July number to 

Riverside Hotel, Reno, Nevada. 
Brooks, Anna, 20 West 17th St., New York City. 

Brown, Miss Helen, Whittier Hall, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Brown, Miss Kate Louise, 901 West State St., Jacksonville, lUinois. 
Brown, Florence M., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Buchholz, Laura M., 6818 St. Lawrence Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Buckingham, Eliza, 93 T3der St., Boston, Mass. 



1909] List of Members 97 

Buckly, Miss Margaret, The Rushton, South Bend, Ind. 

Burbank, Annie F., Northfield Seminary, E. Northfield, Mass. 

Burita, Anna M., 114 Crighton Ave., Elgin, 111. 

Burkhart, Stella, 4819 East 6th St., Kansas City, Mo. 

Burr, Edith E., 2028 Second Ave., Spokane, Wash. 

Burton, Alice, 900 Clark St., Charles City, la. 

Byington, Mrs. W. W., Albany, N. Y. 

Caldwell, Mrs. Wm. H. (Frances C), 5 Churchlea Place, Rochester, N. Y. 

Campbell, Mrs. Ellen A. P., Lady Jane Gray School, Binghamton, N. Y. 

Campbell, Miss Mabel, 344 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Campbell, Isla M., Sterling School, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Canfield, James H., Columbia University, New York City. 

Canfield, Miss Mary L., So. nth St., Xewark, N. J. 

Carey, Arthur A., Free Reading Room, Waltham, Mass. 

Caring, Elsie G., 801 Armistead Ave., Hampton, Va. 

Carpenter, Winifred M., 1347 Howard St., Washington, D. C. 

Carroll, Beatrice, 52 West Bethel St., Hagerstown, Md. 

Casey, Miss Josephine G., 3001 De Groff Way, Kansas City, Mo. 

Cate, Mrs. Margaret W., 217 S. St., N. W. Washington, D. C. 

Chambers, Mary Davoren, Rockford College, Rockford, 111. 

Champion, Clara W., Clinton, X. Y. 

Chandler, Mabel Weston, 35 Eighth St., Xew Bedford, Mass. 

Chapin, Mrs. Louise P., Mechanics Institute, Rochester, N. Y. 

Chapman, Mrs. E. W., Ravenna, Ohio, care of J. H. Williard. 

Charlton, Edith G., State Agricultural College, Ames, Iowa. 

Chase, Miss Annette F., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, X. Y. 

Chernosky, Miss Julia, College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Chislett, Lucile, 6525 Greenwood Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Chown, Miss Alice A., 79 L. Alfred St., Kingston, Ont. 

Christian, M. Katherine, 1230 Amsterdam Avenue, Xew York City. 

Church, Sara B., 6106 Greenwood Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Churchman, Sarah, 4418 Osage Ave., West Philadelphia, Pa. 

Clark, Miss Matie Pearl, 923 Apgar St., Oakland, Cal. 

Clayton, Mrs. Trueman H., Alloway, Xew Jersey. 

Coad, Miss Kate M., Mich. State Agr. College, Lansing, Mich. 

Coffin, Margaret, State Xormal School, Stevens Point, Wis. 

Cohen, Amelia, 2210 Aqueduct Ave. E., Xew York City, Bronx. 

Colbum, Mrs Bemham S., 215 Burns Ave., Detroit, Mich. 

Coleman, Laura L., 505 Washington Ave., Janesville, Wis. 

Colquhoun, A. H. U., Department of Education, Ontario, Canada. 

Coiwell, Rachel Hartshorn, Lake Erie College, Painesville, Ohio. 

Conant, Gertrude E., Milwaukee-Downer College, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Condit, Elizabeth C, Cantonvsille, Maryland. 

Condy, Elizabeth, 1150 Xorth Capitol St., Washington, D. C. 

Conger, Miss Magaret L\^nch, 196 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, X. Y. 

Conley, Emma, Wausau, Wis. 

Connor, Miss Henrietta, 39 State St., Chicago, 111. 



gS Tlie Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Cooper. Lenna F., The Battle Creek Sanitarium, Battle Creek. Mich. 

Converse, Mary, 2072 E. 79th St.. Cleveland, Ohio. 

Cook, F. L., Spearfish, S. Dakota. 

Cook. Miss Lilian I., 902 Bergen Ave.. Jersey City, N. J. 

Cooley, Anna M., Teachers College, New York City. 

Corcoran, Anna T.. 781 Cedar St., St. Paul. Minn. 

Corey. Mrs. J. W., 981 Main St., Spencer, Iowa. 

Cottell, Louisa, 2473 Lowell Ave.. Chicago. 111. 

Coupland, Sara D.. 121 Park Place. Oak Park, 111. 

Cowan, Elizabeth L., Royal Victoria Hospital, Montreal, Canada. 

Coyne, May, Teachers College, New York City. 

Crabb, Miss Mary, College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Crane.' Mrs. W. Murray, 191 5 Mass. Ave., Washington, D. C. 

Crooks, Miss Nellie, 416 West ii8th St., New York City. 

Crosby, Mrs. Wm. Howard, 1042 Main Street, Racine, Wis. 

Cross, Miss E. W., 1804 Wyoming Ave., Washington, D. C. 

Crowder, Jennie M., 6143 Gambleton PL, St. Louis, Mo. 

Croyle, Mrs. A. H., 823 N. 15th St., Fort Smith, Ark. 

Crozier. Miss Susan L., L. F. O. A., Lynchburg, Va. 

Crummett, Miss Grace M., National Park Seminary, Forest Glen, Md. 

Crump, Edna H., 35 Church St., Paterson, N. J. 

Gushing, Walter Howard, So. Framingham, Mass. 

Dabney, Mrs. Ellen P., 4222 Burke Ave., Seattle, Wash. 

Daggett, Florence J., 1017 Sylvanie Street, St. Joseph, Indiana. 

Dana, John Cotton, The Free PubUc Library, Newark, N. J. 

Daniell, Miss Maria, 19 School St., Quincy, Mass. 

Daniels, Amy Louise, Technical High School, Springfield, Mass. 

Darrow, Elizabeth S., 116 East Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 

Davidson, Flora H., The Baldwin School, Bryn Mawr, Pa. 

Davidson, Miss Margaret, Technical High School, Toronto, Ont. 

Davis, Sara E., 4052 Girard Ave., Philadelphia, Penn. 

Day, Edna D., 906 Conley Ave., Columbia, Mo. 

Day', Helen M., Bradley Polytechnic Institute, Peoria, 111. 

Deacon, Gertrude Newbold, 309 Garden St., Mount Holly, New Jersey. 

Dean, Miss NelHe, 46 West 17th St., New York City. 

de Cerkex, Miss Florence E., 33 Saybrook Place, Newark, N. J. 

de Forest, Miss Constance, 262 Gates Avenue, Brooklyn. N. Y. 

Denton. Minna C, Lewis Institute, Chicago, 111. 

DeVinne, Miss Augusta C, 188 Hart St., Brooklyn, N.^ Y. 

Dewey, Mrs. Melvil, Lake Placid Club, Essex Co., N. Y. 

Dibble. Mrs. Gertrude, 219 West 80th St., New York City. 

Dickey. Miss Alta V., The Pierpont, Northampton, Mass. 

Dickinson, Mrs. Robert L. (Sarah T.), 168 CHnton St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Dike, Miss Alice N., Simmons College, The Fenway, Boston, Mass. 

Dillard, Mrs. Mary Evans, 510 Clay St.. Lynchburg, Va. 

Dillon, Margaret Gay. Momingside College, Sioux City, Iowa. 

Douglass, A. B.. 6 Garland St., Boston, Mass. 



1909] List of Members 99 

Dow, Arthur W., Teachers College, Columbia University, New York. 

Dow, Miss Ula M., Kansas State Agricultural College, Manhattan, Kansas. 

Dunbar, Marjory, Teachers College, New York City. 

Dunham, Edna B., 1024 Middle Ave., Elyria, Ohio. 

Dunlap, Mrs. Henry M., Savoy, 111. 

Dunlap, Mabel, 14 Worcester St., Boston, Mass,, care of St. Bethany Union 

Dunn, Mrs. John Kendall, 398 Hillside Ave., Jamaica, L. I., N. Y. 

Duntz, Lura L., 55 Plymouth Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 

Dutcher, Miss Elizabeth, 39 Pierrepont St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Eadie, E. M., University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 

Eaton, Dora, Oxley Hall, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. 

Ebbets, Miss Charlotte P., 657 Park Ave., New York City. 

Edson, Mrs. Mary D., 509 W. Washington Bvd., Fort Wayne, Ind. 

Edwards, M. Josephine, F. F. Thompson Hospital, Canandaigua, N. Y. 

Eisenmann, Adele L., 55 S. Hamilton St., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 

Elder, L. May, Sweet Briar College, Sweet Briar, Va. 

EUicott, Mrs. Wm. M., 106 Ridgewood Road, Roland Park, Baltimore, Md. 

Elliott, S. Maria, 118 Charles St., Boston, Mass. 

Elson, William H., Supt. of Schools, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Elsworth, Louise Armstrong (Mrs. Edward), 303 Mill St., Poughkeepsie, 

N. Y. 
Emmons, Mrs. Minnie, Battle Creek Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Mich. 
Ericsson, H. Wilhelmina, 128 So. Elliot Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Ellis, Charlotte, 258a Emerson Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Erwin, May, 300 S. Greenwich St., Austin, Minn. 
Evans, Miss Mary, Painesville, Ohio 
Evans, Miss Margaret M., 337 East Main St., Kent, O. 
Evanston School of Domestic Science, Haven School, Evanston, 111. 
Evoy, Euphemia E., 6324 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Ewing, Nina A., Normal School, Toronto, Canada. 

Fairchild, Miss Jessie E., 162 Sullivan St., New York City. 

Farmer, Fannie Merritt, 30 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 

Famsworth, Mildred L., 43 Livingston St., New Haven, Conn. 

Farrell, Mar}^ Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Fenwick, Miss Ina H., St. Andrews' School, 22330 Cherry St., Richmond, 

Va. 
Ferguson, Mrs. Henry, Rectory St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H. 
Fetter, Prof. R. A., Ithaca, N. Y. 
Feuling, Mrs. Alice Dynes, Ames, Iowa. 
Field, Bertha L., 423 N. Front St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Filson, Kathryn H., 1347 Howard St., Washington, D. C. 
Fisher, Grace, Pasadena, California. 

Fisher, Mrs. Irving, 460 Prospect St., New Haven, Conn. 
Fisher, Miss Katharine A., Technical and Collegiate Institute, Berlin, 

Canada. 
Fitch, Lucy W., 2032 E. 115th St., Cleveland, Ohio. 



loo The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Flagg, E. P., 109 N. Main Ave, Los Angeles, Cal. 

Fleming, Mrs. Geo. B., Kittanning, Pa. 

Fletcher, Grace, 102 Gainsborough St., Boston, Mass. 

Flint, Anna K., 316 West 9th Ave., Columbus, Ohio. 

Foley, Anna U., 61 Murdock St., Brighton, Mass. 

Folger, Miss H., Milledgeville, Pa. 

Fonda, Ethel, Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Ontario. 

Foran, Margaret A., 674 Massachusetts Ave., Boston, Mass. 

Forehand, A. Josephine, 40 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass. 

Fowler, Emma J., 239 West 21st St., New York City. 

Fowler, Nathaniel C, Jr., 814 Pemberton Building, Boston, Mass. 

Francis, Emma, Wheeler Apartments, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Franklin, Miss Veta, Alabama Girls Industrial School, Montevallo, Ala. 

Frayser, Mary E., Teachers College, New York City. 

French, Lucile Grace, State Normal School, Framingham, Mass. 

Frich, Lilla Pauline, care of Sup't. of Schools, Minneapohs, Minn. 

Fuller, M. Alice, 504 West 1 12th St., New York City. 

Fulton, Miss Lucy, 29 So. Broadway, Yonkers, N. Y. 

Gait, Miss Carrie, 619 West Capitol Ave., Springfield, Illinois. 

Gamble, Mrs. D. B., 521 Glen wood Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio. 

daylord, Marian, 6441 Harvard Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Gearing, Miss Mamie E., No. 5 The Savoy, Houston, Texas. 

Geer, Elene E., 54 West ii6th St., New York City. 

Geisel, Carolyn E., Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Mich. 

Gessner, Miss Mabel L., 150 Bradley St., New Haven, Conn. 

Gibbs, Charlotte M., University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

Gibbons, Miss Louisa J., 1 24 Trenton St., Melrose, Mass. 

Gibbs, Winifred S., 105 East 22d St., New York City. 

Gies, Wm. J., 437 West 59th St., New York City. 

Gilbert, Elsie, 21 Chestnut St., Boston, Mass. 

Gilchrist, Maude, Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing, Mich. 

Gillet, Lucy H., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Goodrich, lola B., St. Christopher's Home. Dobbs Ferry, N. Y. 

Goodyear, Amelia, 94 Oxford St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Gorton, Harriette, The Sallye- suburban Place, Bronx, New York City. 

Graves, Clara N., Y. W. C. A., Detroit, Mich. 

Graves, Mrs. Louisa, 5760 Cote Brilliante Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 

Graham. Helen, Ruston. Louisiana. 

Gray, Miss Cora E., 30 Green Hall, University of Chicago, 111. 

Green, Mrs. Anna H., 6031 Calumet Avenue, Chicago, 111. 

Greene, M. Louise, 14 University Place. New Haven, Conn. 

Greer, Carlotta C, Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Gregory, (Mrs. J. W.), The Concord, Washington, D. C. 

Grimball, Mrs. H. E., Spartanburg, South Carolina. 

Grindley, Prof. H. S., University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

Gross, Mrs. Anna Rew, iioo Ridge Ave., Evanston, -111. 

Guldlin, Mrs. O. N., Fort Wayne, Ind. 



1909] List of Members 10 1 

Gunn, Alice M., State Xormal, Superior, Wis. 

Hagar, Miss Grace E., 1761 West 25th St., Los Angeles, Cal. 

Haggart, Miss Margaret H., Agricultural College, New Mexico. 

Hale, Mrs. William B., 19 Prince S., Rochester, N. Y. 

Hall Edith, DeKalb, 111. 419 College Ave., 

Hall, Mrs. Caroline A. M., Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, Penn. 

Halsey, Mrs, The Dixie, 1337 L. St., Washington, D. C. 

Hamilton, Mrs. Warren, Kirksville, Mo. 

Hamman, Anna B., 4 Avondale Park, Rochester, N. Y. 

Hammel, William C. A., 1027 Spring Garden St., Greensboro, N. C, P. O. 

box 147. 
Hammond, Flora E., 6018 Drexel Road, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Haner, Mrs. Jennie L. K., University of Idaho. Moscow, Idaho. 
Hanna, Miss Agnes K., 156 West 83rd St., New York City. 
Hanson, Elma M., Milwaukee-Downer College, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Harkins, Lilla A., Bozeman, Mont. 

Harris, Margaret C, 862 N. California Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Hartzell, Ada M. C, 16 Frankhn St., Providence, R. I. 
Hassebrock, Mamie M., 100 LaSalle Ave., Peoria, 111. 
Hatch, Miss Beulah Clark, Cor. Lincoln and Highland Ave., WoUaston, 

Mass. 
Hatch, Miss Fannie C, E. Northfield, Mass. 
Hatch, Helen Edith, Lock Box 113, Williamstown, Mass. 
Hattersley, Mrs. Nelly, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Havens, Margaret Remington, 177 Homer St., Newton Centre, Mass. 
Haydon, Miss Helen, 5629 Lexington Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Hayes, Anna G., 135 East 15th St., New York City. 
Heath, Mrs. Julian, 6 West 91st St., New York City. 
Hedges, Miss Anna, The Pierpont, Northampton, Mass. 
Hedges, Anna C, Hebrew Technical School for Girls, 2d Ave. & 15th St. 

Home address, 185 Emerson Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Henderson, Miss Evelyn Mabel, Carson and Newman College, Jefferson 

City, Tenn. 
Henderson, Caroline E., S. 627 Washington St., Spokane, Wash. 
Henderson, Nan, Teachers College, New York City. 
Hickman, Miss Ruth F., 4604 Washington Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
Hill, Florence A., Howard Uni^-ersity, Washington, D. C. 
Hill, Janet M. (Mrs. Benj. M.), 372 Boylston St., Boston, Mass. 
Hill, Sarah C, The Bayard, New Brunswick, N. J. 
Hillman, Miss Alice, Home address, 6146 Monroe Ave., Chicago, III. 

Present address, Jacksonville, Alabama. 
Hinchman, Miss Elizabeth, McLean Hospital, Waverly, Mass. 
Hingles, Mrs. Mae M., Saginaw, Mich. 
Hitchcock, Gertrude M., Salem Hospital, Salem, Mass. 
Hoagland, Mr. H. C, 35 Burnet St., Newark, N. J. 
Hollister, Aimee Caroline, Box 157, Fergus Falls, Minn. 
Holloway, Mrs. Eleanor, 2505 Cottage Grove Ave., Des Moines, la. 



I02 



T}te Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 



Holzer, Penelope L., 3229 North 17th St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Hoover, Jessie M., Brookings, S. D. 

Home, Elsie R., Asacog House, 52 Sands St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Hotchkin, Mrs. Alice M., 24 Calumet St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Howard, Miss Emma Pease, St. Mary's School, Knoxville, Illinois. 

Howard, Mrs. Jay Cooke, 4632 London Road, Duluth, Minn. 

Howard, Margaret W., 84 Fairmont Ave., Newton, Mass. 

Howard, Maria W., Simmons College, The Fenway, Boston, Mass. 

Howe, Frederic W., Framingham, Mass. 

Howell, Lottie E., Sanford Hall, Flushing, L. 1. 

Howland, Ester M., 7405 Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Hunsicker, Agnes S., Lehighton, Pa. 

Hunt, Agnes, College of Hawaii, Honolulu, H. L 

Hunt, Caroline L., Maple Bluff Farm, Madison, Wis. 

Huntington, Miss Ellen A., 26 Charter Oak Place, Hartford, Conn. 

Hurlbalt, Miss Ethel, Royal Victoria College for Women, Montreal, Can. 

Hutchins, Anna P., Teachers College, New York City. 

Hutchinson, Alice Janet, 265 East 54th St., Chicago, 111. 

Hyde, Miss Carrie, Brenan College, Gainesville, Ga. 

Hyde, Mrs. Blanche E., Whittier Hall, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York 

City. 
Hyde, LilUan S., 334 Linclon Ave., Palo Alto, Cal. 
Hyams, Isabel F., 26 Wales St., Dorchester, Mass. 

Ikelheimer, Miss Minnie, 117 East 56th St., New York City 
Ingersoll, Katherine Isabel, Lewis Institute, Chicago, 111. 
Inowye, Mrs. Hide, Whittier Hall, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Permanent address. The Japanese Women's University, Tokyo, Japan. 
Irvine, Mrs. Helen Brooks, 12 14 Druid Hill, Baltimore. 
Jackson, Anna Morris, 540 West 12 2d St., New York City. 
Jackson, Grove A., Treasurer Hillsdale College, Hillsdale, Mich. 
Jacobs, Miss E. S., 607 O. St., N. W., Washington, D. C. 
Jameson, Harriet C, 119th St. & Broadway, New York City. 
Jenney, Miss Bertha, 2904 Vernon Place, Cincinnati, O. 
Jennings, Miss Leah, 395 DuPage Street, Elgin, Illinois. 
Jessup, Harriet F., 423 West 118th St., New York City. 
Jewell, Isabella E., Teachers College, New York City. 
Joffa, Prof. M. E., Cal. State Board of Health, University of California, 

Berkeley, Cal. 
Johnck, Miss Marie, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Johnson, Miss Alice A., 115 So. 22d St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Johnson, Alice S., 25 Whalley Ave., New Haven. Conn. 
Johnson, Elizabeth Frances, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Johnson, Miss Florence Kendrick, 241 East 19th St., Office address 105 

East 17th St., New York City. 
Johnson, Helen Louise, R. I. College, Kingston, R. I. 
Johnson, Julia D., 944 Elberon Ave., Price Hill, Cincinnati, O. 
Johnston, Bertha M., K.S.A.C. Manhattan. Kansas 



1909I List of Members 103 

Jones, Anne, 1701 Pittston Ave., Scranton, Pa. 
Jones, Mary M., 254 Tremont St., X. Tonawanda, X. Y. 

Keck, Katherine L., Haskell Institute, Lawrence, Kansas. 
Kehew, Mrs. Mary Morton, 29-a Chestnut St., Boston, Mass. 
Kellogg, Mrs. J. H., 202 Manchester St., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Kennedy, Mrs. Caroline S., 818 Park Ave., Wheaton, Illinois. 
Kerr, Josephine EUrod, X. Market St., Urbana, Illinois. 
King, Dr. Herbert M., Loomis Sanitorium, X. Y. 
King, Mrs. S. Xoble, Bloomington, 111. 
Kingsbury, Louise, 138 West State St., Trenton, X. J. 
Kinne, Helen, Teachers College, New York City. 
Kinsey, Laura M., 6638 Vermont Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
Kinsey, Mrs. O. P., 252 Greenwich St., Valparaiso, Indiana. 
Kober, Dr. George M., 181 9 Q Street, X. W., Washington, D. C. 
Kraeger, Bertha E., 701 S. Capitol St., Pekin, 111. 
Kuichling, Mrs. Emil, 68 Ir\'ing Place, X'ew York City. 

LaFollette, Mrs. Robert M., Maple Bluff Farm, Madison, Wis., or 1864 

Wyoming Ave., Washington, D. C. 
Laird, Annie L., 145 Jarvis St., Toronto, Canada. 
Landes, Miss Sarah W., Box 509 Stillmater, Okla. 
Lange, Elizabeth C, 716 State St., Madison, Wis. 
Langworthy, C. F., Dep't. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 
Lanman, Faith R., 1447 Fair Ave., Columbus, Ohio. 
Larkins, Mrs. G. W., 37 Madison Ave., New York City. 
Lamed, (Mrs. S. B.) Linda Hull, 309 West Genesee St., Syracuse, N. Y. 
Lathrop, Mrs. Geo. C, 71 Belmont St., Fall River, Mass. 
Laws, Annie, 2927 Reading Road, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
LeBarm, Miss Margharetta M., 1147 Montana Street, El Paso, Texas. 
LeBosquet, Maurice, 606 West 69th St., Chicago, 111. 
Lee, Miss F. M., Teachers College, X'ew York Cit}-. 
Leete, Miss Bertina A., 213 E. Clay St., Richmond, Va. 
Lendrum, Ethel, Watseka, 111. 

Leonard, Leila G., 5417 Ridgewood Court, Chicago, 111. 
Lester, Miss Mary Louise, 314 Sargeant Street, Hartford, Conn. 
Lewis, Mrs. Adele B., 26 Lexington St., E. Boston, Mass. 
Library University of Washington, Seattle, Washington. 
Lillard, J. B., Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Cal. 
Lincoln, Mrs. Mary J., 204 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 
Lister, Helen T., Princeton, 111. 

Little, Miss Alice, 540 Main St., Haverhill, Mass. ' 

Little, Miss Mabel CoUette, Lakeside Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio. 
Livermore, Mrs. Arthur L., 144 Park Ave., Yonkers, X. Y. 
Logan, Amy L., Teachers College, Xew York City. 
Long, Alma A., 2361 Harper Ave., East X'orwood, O. 
Loomis, Alice M., Kingston, R. I. 
Loomis, Mrs. Miriam X., Lasell Seminary, Aubumdale, Mass. 



I ©4 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Loring, Miss Margaret, 19 Crescent Ave., Newton Center, Mass. 

Lovejoy, Miss Sara C, State College, Penn. 

Lowenthal, Miss Ethel R., 4127 Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Lublin, Mrs. Janet, 113 West io6th St., Xew York City. 

Lucas, Essa B., \. Y. City Home, Blackwell's Island, Xew York City. 

Lyford, Carrie Alberta, Illinois State Normal University, Normal, III. 

Lyon, Carrie H., 417 West 120th St., New York City. 

MacDermaid, Miss Mary, 40 Berkely St., Boston, Mass. 

MacDonald, Miss Pearl, Mich. State Agr. College, Lansing, Mich. 

Macke, Marcella, 40 Emmet Street, Dayton, Ohio. 

MacVannel, Miss Elizabeth, 14 London Road, Guelph, Ontario, Canada. 

Maddocks, Mildred, Springfield, Mass. 

Madeira, Miss Lucy, 1236 19th St., Washington, D. C. 

Magee, Miss N. M., Teachers College, New York City. 

Manchester, Mrs. Melinda I., Teachers College, New York City. 

Manning, Miss Ada, College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Marlatt, Abby L., Technical High School, Providence, R. I. 

Marlatt, Mrs. C. L., 1740 Mass. Ave., Washington, D. C. 

Marshall, Miss Elsie, 70 S. i6th St., Richmond, Ind. 

Marshall, Grace, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 

Mason, Edith L., Lancaster, Mass. 

Massee, Edith, 24 X. loth St., Hamilton, Ohio. 

Mather, Mrs. Lee Dandridge, 1099 Iowa Street, Dubuque, Iowa. 

Mathews, May, 413 W. 46th St., New York City. 

Maynard, Miss Bemice S., 810 Elm St., Moscow, Idaho. 

McBride, Elizabeth C, 805 N. Twenty-fourth St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

McCandliss, Emily D., 3334 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Penn. 

McCastline, Dr. Wm. H., Teachers College, New York City. 

McCauley, Mrs. R. N., Soldiers' Orphans Home, Normal, 111. 

McCoUin, Katherine, Llanerck, Delaware Co., Penn. 

McCormick, Mary G., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 

McCuUough, Miss E. Grace, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass 

McDaniel, Annie M., 128 C St., S. E., Washington, D. C. 

MacDermaid, Miss Mary, 40 Berkley St., Boston, Mass. 

McGiffert, Miss Sarah, Muskegon, Michigan. 

McGowin, Miss Margaret O., 501 West 123rd Street, New York City. 

Mclntyre, Miss Edith A., 46 West 17th St., New York City. 

McKay, Miss Catherine J., 207 Hargrave St., Winnipeg, Man., Canada. 

McKeand, Jane W., 2429 Channing Way, Berkeley, Cal. 

McKenna, Miss Mollie F.,City Hospital, Blackwell's Island, N. Y. City. 

McKeown, Matilda J., 762 West End Ave., New York City. 

Melendy, Emma L., 1000 East Vernon Ave., Los Angeles, Cal. 

Mendel, Dr. Lafayette B., 18 Trumbull St., Xew Haven, Conn. 

Merrison, Ruth, Ames, Iowa. 

Merrow, Miss Abbie S., Berea College. Berea, Ky. 

Miller, Mrs. Walter McXab, 809 College Ave., Columbia, Mo. 

Messenger, Mr. W. R., 9 Pine St., Xew York City. 

Michael, Miss Hattie B., 44 Maiden Lane, Kingston, N. Y. 



1909] List of Members 105 

Miller, Bertha M., 98 N. Walnut St., Franklin, Ind. 

Miller, Bessie E., 2433 7th St., N. W., Washington, D. C. 

Mitchell, Harriet P., 4056 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mitchell, Miss, School of Education, University of Chicago, Chicago, III. 

Mitchell, Margaret J., 416 West 11 8th St., New York City. 

Monroe, Mrs. Mary, Lincoln School, Spokane, Wash. 

Montague, Ruth, State Sanatorium, Wallum Lake, R. L 

Moore, Jessie, 234 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass. 

Moore, Mrs. Katherine D., Ellis Memorial, 12 Carver St., Boston, Mass. 

Moore, Mary Eleanor, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Moore, Mrs. Philip X., 3125 Lafayette Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 

Morris, Mrs. Delia J., ion Court St., Pueblo, Colo. 

Morris, Xan, Teachers College, Xew York City. 

Morse, Charles H., 15 Ashburton Place, Boston, Mass. 

Motie, Miss O., 6308 Boone Avenue, Spokane, Wash. 

Mowbray, Myrtle, Ruston, La. 

Morse, Miss Lydia Dodge, Halcyon Hall, Millbrook, X. Y. 

Mudge, Miss Hope Rawson, Whittier School, Winter St., Haverhill, Mass. 

Mull, Mrs. Beth Warner, Kansas State X^ormal College, Emporia, Kansas. 

Mulligan, Miss Catharine Archer, State College for Women, Tallahassee, 

Fla. 
Murchie, Miss Maud, Teachers College, Columbia University, X. Y. City. 
Murphy, Mrs. Claudia Q., 91 Madison Avenue South, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Myers, Miss Daisy, Box 2365, Spokane, Wash. 

X'ation, O'Della, State Manual Training School, Pittsburg, Kansas. 

Needham, Prof. J. G., Ithaca, X. Y. 

Nef?, Miss Isabel H., 2519 Auburn Ave., Cincinnati, O. 

Nelson, Miss Alice M., 813 13th St., X. W., Washington, D. C. 

Nesbitt, Miss Anthos J., Jewish Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Xesbitt, Eleanor H., Millet Mansion, Austin, Texas. 

Neville, Mrs. Arthur C, 905 Monroe Ave., Green Bay, Wis. 

Xicholass, Louisa Augusta, State Xormal School, Framingham, Mass. 

Xicholson, Miss Mary X^., Lincoln School, Spokane, Wash. 

Xoble, Helen G., 432 Hoboken Ave., Jersey City, X. J. 

Nollen, Emeline Bartlett (Mrs. John Scholte XoUen), Lake Forest, 111. 

Northrup, Miss I. A., 54 Pitt St., St. John, New Brunswick, D. of C. 

Xorton, Mrs. Alice Peloubet, University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 

Noyes, Miss Martha B., Hartley House, 413 West 46th St., Xew York City. 

Noyes, Edith, 43 Canton St., Boston, Mass. 

Nutting, Adelaide, Teachers College, Xew York City. 

O'Brien, Miss Emily Young, Brookline, Mass. 

O'Brien, Mrs. Robert Lincoln, 272 Walnut St., Brookline, Mass. 

Odell, Mrs. Jay Bernard, 35 S. Kensington Ave., LaGrange, III. 

Palmer, Elizabeth D., 133 1 Fairmont St., Washington, D. C. 

Palmer, Jane, South Central High School, Spokane, Wash. 

Parks, Miss Isabel M., St. Mary's School, 32 South Main St., Concord, N. H. 



io6 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Parker, Mrs. Charles E., 1467 Irving St., Washington, D. C. 

Parloa, Maria, Bethel, Conn. 

Parmelee, Susan, Polytechnic High School, Los Angeles, Cal. 

Parsons, Maude E., 220 South Madison St., Rockford, 111. 

Parsons, Elizabeth, 1862 East 90th St., Cleveland, O. 

Patten, Mr. F. C, Rosenberg Library, Galveston, Te.xas. 

Patten, Dr. Simon, N., University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Penn. 

Patterson, Juliet C, 8 Montrose St., Roxbury, Mass. 

Patterson, Olive Fair, Medical Building, Toronto University, Toronto, Can. 

Patton, Frances, 2021 Poplar St., Philadelphia, Penn. 

Peacock, Mar>' H., Richmond, Indiana. 

Peal, Amelia, 556 Mt. Prospect Ave., Newark, N. J. 

Pearson, R. A., Albany, N. Y. 

Pearson, Miss Susan C, 321 Huron Street, Chicago, 111. 

Penniman, Annie B., Normal School, Framingham, Mass. 

Peppard, Mrs. Lillian, Mich. Agr. College, Lansing, Mich. 

Pequignot, Mary Boland, 26 Floyd St., Winthrop Highlands, Mass. 

Pelt, Mrs. Clara G., 622 Walnut St., East Bloomington, 111. 

Pcttengill, Miss Florence D., Hachburn Hall, Normal School, Duluth, 

Minn. 
Pettit, Mary, Oskaloosa, Iowa. 
Phelps, Lena, 315 Connor Ave., Joplin, Mo. 
Philbrick, Annette E., 1023 H. St., Lincoln, Neb. 
Pickering, Miss Lena M., 954 East ssth St., Los Angeles, Cal. 
Pierce, Lucy H., 194 Daboll St., Providence, R. I. 
Pierson, Clementine M., 2149 Grand St., W. H., Cincinnati, O. 
Pike, Miss Sophronia Bulfinch, Western College for Women, Oxford, Ohio. 
Pinchott, Gifford, 1615 Rhode Island Ave., Washington, D. C. 
Pincomb, Helen M., 712 Oregon St., Urbana, 111. 
Piper, Miss Ethel R., Spelman Seminary, Atlanta, Ga. 
Pine, Emma E., 215 Ogden St., San Antonio, Texas. 
Pitner, Ina K., 1106 Davis St., Evanston, 111. 
Pohlmann, Christine, Miller School P. O., Virginia. Home address, 978 

Beaulieu St., Detroit, Mich. 
Pomeroy, Lavinia, Wolfe Hall, Denver, Colo. 
Pope, Lena M., 449 Fifth St., Manister, Mich. 
Powell, Miss Elsie, 324 West 58th St., New York City. 
Pray, Miss Florence A., 423 W. Lowell St., Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Preble, Grace R., 80 W^ashington Place, New York City. 
Prentiss, Bertha C, 2429 Channing Way, Berkeley, Cal. 
Proudfit, Fairfax T., 238 Madison Ave., Memphis, Tenn. 
Purcell, Euphemia, 104 John St., Utica, N. Y. 
Putnam, George A., Parliament Buildings, Toronto, Ont. 
Putnam, Dr. Helen C, Rhode Island Ave., Pro\ndence, R. 1. 

Raitt, Effie I.. Willard Hall, Evanston, 111. 

Rausch, Miss Man,' F., State Agricultural College, Ft. Collins, Colorado. 
Raven, Paulina E., Northern Normal and Industrial School,* Aberdeen, 
South Dakota. 



1909] List of Members 107 

Raymond, Mrs. I S., Sidney, 111. 

Reat, Miss Ruth, Charleston, Illinois. 

Rees, Mrs. Mabel L., 33 Winthrop St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Rees, Eleanor L., 102 Harris St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Reynolds, Miss Cora. College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Rhodes, Mrs. Clara G., Galesburg, 111. 

Rich, Jessie P., 21 Beecher Hall, Chicago, 111. 

Richards, Mrs. Ellen H., Mass. Institute of Technolog}^ Boston, Mass. 

Richardson, Elza B., 308 W. Washington, Greensboro, N. C. 

Richeson, Virginia C, 240 Walnut St., Freeport, 111. 

Rider, Grace Godfrey, Mrs., Grand View on the Hudson, N. Y. 

Ridlon, Hester, 234 Marlboro' St., Boston, Mass. 

Rinehart, Elizabeth, 220 15th Ave. X., Seattle, Wash. 

Riordan, Rev. M. J., Pikesville, Baltimore Co., Maryland. 

Ripley, Mrs. EUor C, 1247 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass. 

Ritter, Florence E., 420 West 121st St., New York City. 

Ritter, E. Adele, I. O. O. F. Home, Lincoln, 111. 

(After June first, Mattoon, 111.) 
Roach, Ethel Frances L., Windsor, Nova Scotia. 
Robertson, Dr. James W., Macdonald College, Quebec, Canada. 
Robinson, Miss Eva R., Cobb Hall, University of Chicago, 111. 
Robson, Miss Harriette Irving, 17 North Grand Boulevard West, Detroit, 

Mich. 
Roe, Ada, 50 Amherst St., East Orange, N. J. 
Rogers, Juliet O., 1230 Amsterdam Avenue, New York City. 
Rolston, Mrs. Clifford J., 270 New St., Macon, Ga. 
Root, Miss Kathr\-n H., 39 Broad St., Stamford, Conn. 
Rose, Flora, 811 E. State St., Ithaca, N. Y. 

Rosenberg Library, Galveston, Texas. Mr. F. C. Patten, Librarian. 
Rossman, Miss Rena, Miller School, Virginia. 
Rugg, Miss Ellen Marshall, 1813 Newton St., Washington, D. C. 
Ruggles, Anne Reed, St. Mar\''s School, Knox^^lle, 111. 
Rulon, Phoebe D., 7 Hart St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Rushmore, Ellen R., Manual Training High School, 7th Ave. & 4th^St., 

Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Russell, Jas. E., 500 West 121st St., New York City. 
Russell, Martha M., 447 West 59th St., New York City. 

Sabin, Ellen C, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Sachs, Julius, Teachers College, New York City. 

Safford, A. F., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Sage, Miss Elizabeth, 2337 Broadway, New York City. 

Sale, Miss S. Frances, Teachers College, New York City. 

Sanders, Gertrude E., 1531 Colorado St., Denver, Colo. 

Sands, Mrs. Nina DeLong, Pentwater, Mich. 

Cjargent, Mrs. Winthrop, 207 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass. 

oasnett. Miss Martha R., 117 Boston St., E. Savannah, Ga. 

cchenck. Miss Ella, 417 West iiSth St., New York City. 

jjChifTer, Josephine, 1728 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis, Ind. 



ic8 The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Scott, Miriam E., 1221 De la Vina St., Santa Barbara, Cal. 

Scott, Rhea C, Ashland, Va. 

Secrest, May, San Luis Obispo, Cal. 

See, Helene M., 2324 Cottage Grove Ave., Des Moines, la. 

Seymour, Lurene, Menomonie, Wisconsin. 

Shailer, Mrs. William G., 252 West 76th St., Xew York City. 

Shand, Miss Sarah, Drawer 320, Hamilton, Ontario. 

Shannon, Agnes X., 73 Dogulas Ave., Freeport, 111. 

Sharp, Katharine L., Lake Placid Club, Essex Co., N. Y. 

Shaw, Clara H., Womans College, Baltimore, Md. 

Shaw, Mrs. Julia W., 2024 13th St. X. W., Washington, D. C. 

Sherman, Miss Alice M., Newport, Vt. 

Sherman, Cora A. B., Mrs. H. C. Sherman, 529 West 124th St., New York 

City. 
Sherman, Henry C, Columbia University, Xew York City. 
Shoe, Miss V. Ethrelda, 232 X. 5th St., Philadelphia, Penn. 
Sidwell, Mrs. 804 Twenty-first St., Washington, D. C. 
Signor, Katharine A., 327 High St., Marquette, Mich. 
Sill, Ruth P., 70 Adams St., Rochester, X. Y. 
Simon, Cornelia E., Miller School, Virginia. 

Sisson, Prof. E. O., University of Washington, Seattle, Washington. 
Skinner, Honora T., The Young Women's Christian Ass'n., 120 Fifth St., 

Pittsburg, Pa. 
Slaght, Mrs. Elizabeth, 221 Mt. Vernon St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Slawson, Grace Marie, McLean Hospital, Waverly, Mass. 
Smedley, Emma, 6 East Front St., Media, Pa. 
Smith, Frances Gordon, (Mrs. Burton Smith), 575 W. Peachtree St., 

Atlanta, Ga. 
Smith, Gertrude Morris, 223 Lj-on St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Smith, Mrs. Geo. Otis, 2137 Bancroft Place, Washington, D. C. 
Smith, Miss Lilie C, High School, Brookline, Mass. 
Smith, Miss M. Pauline, 87 Poplar St., Boston, Mass. 
Snively, Alice F., 3143 Calumet Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Snively, Letitia R., 3250 S. Park Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Snow, Mary, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Snow, Jenny H., School of Education, University of Chicago, Chicago, lU. 
Sosnett, Miss Martha R., 117 Bolton Street East, Savannah, Ga. 
Souder, M. Attie, 15 19 Portland Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 
Southard, Lydia, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., X'ew York City. 
Speer, Miss Editha Lou, Berea, Kentucky. 
Speller, Muriel I., Technical High School, Springfield, Mass. 
Spooner, Miss Ella J., Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 
Spray, Mabel R., 3870 Lake Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Spring, H. M., Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Stancill, Miss S. K., Protestant Hospital, Xorfolk, Va. 
Stanley, Miss Emily W., Crocker Hall, Framingham, Mass. 
Stanley, Louise, 604 S. X'inth St., Columbia, Mo. 
Stannard, Mrs. Margaret, 19 Chestnut St., Boston, Mass. 



1909] List of Members 109 

Staples, Clara G., Petersham, Mass. 

Steiger, Miss Katherine French, Municipal Building, Rochester, N. Y. 
Stephens, Merle M., Monterallo, Alabama. 
Stevens, Mrs. F. L., West Raleigh, North Carolina. 
Stewart, Frances E., 512 N. Normal Parkway, Chicago, 111. 
Stewart, Gwendolyn, 914/1! California St., Urbana, 111. 
Stimson, Lucile H., 159 West 86th St., New York City. 
Stocking, Miss Mary B., 86 Charles St., Boston, Mass. 
Stocking, Prof. W. A., Ithaca, N. Y. 

Stone, Mabel, Manual Training High School, 7th Ave. and 4th St., Brook- 
lyn, N. Y. 
Stoner, Miss Minnie A., Wyoming State University, Laramie, Wyoming. 
Streibert, Ethel K., 2072 E. 79th St., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Strong, Eunice E., Teachers Hall, So. Manchester, Conn. 
Stryker, Adelaide B., 9 Lake Street, White Plains, N. Y. 
Studley, Flora C, 19 Yale St., Springfield, Mass. 
Stump, Gertrude, 1276 Vattin St., St. Louis, Mo. 

Sumner, Caroline L., Fort Edward Collegiate Institute, Fort Edward, N.Y. 
Sunderland, Belle, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Sutherland, Isabel, 124 Lexington Ave., New York City. 
Sutton, Del T., 157 Alexandrine Ave, West Detroit, Mich. 
Swanson, Miss Grace M., McLean Hospital, Waverly, Mass. 
Swartz, Mary Davies, 74 Lake Place, New Haven, Conn. 
Swenson, Sadie, College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 
Swett, Alma B., 354 N. Main St., Brewer, Maine. 
Swift, Florence Roberta, Y. M. C. A., Akron, Ohio. 

Talbot, Marian, University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 

Tamblyn, M. Beatrice, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 

Taylor, Miss Ellen, 414 Hamilton Ave., Norfolk, Va. 

Telford, Emma Paddock, Mrs., 1462 Bedford Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Terrill, Bertha M., 1544 Broad St., Hartford, Conn. 

Thomas, Alberta T., Storrs, Conn. 

Thompson, Miss, 25 Whallej' Ave., New Haven, Conn. 

Thompson, Miss E. B., 25 Whalley Ave., New Haven, Conn. 

Thompson, Annie, Y. W. C. A., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Thompson, Miss Christina M., 34 K E. 12th St., New York City. 

Thomdike, E. L., Teachers CoUege, Columbia University. 

Tingle, Miss Lilian E., 185 East 15th St., Portland, Oregon. 

Tobey, Mrs. Evelyn S., 195 Claremont Ave., New York City. 

Tough, Mary, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Toll, Florence M., 12 Randolph St., Passaic, N. J. 

Townsend, Mary Louise, Cedar Falls, Iowa. 

Treat, Miss Nola, Y. W^ C. A., Elgin, IlHnois. 

Trowbridge, Eleanor Elizabeth, Peace Dale, Rhode Island. 

Trowbridge, M. C, Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Truman, Edna, Geneseo, Illinois. 

Turner, Isabel Spencer, 209 Dyckman St., New York City. 



no The Journal of Home Economics [Feb. 

Tuttle, Gertrude, Manual Training High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Tuttle, Mary Louise, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tenn. 
Tweedy, Hilda M. (Mrs. R. L.), 11706 Kelton Ave., N. E. Cleveland, O. 
Twiss, Miss Fannie A., Gait, Canada. 

Uniberger, May E., Box ^3, Parsons, Kansas. 
Usher, Susannah, University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

Vail, Mary B., College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Van Arsdale, May B., 457 West 123d St., \ew York City. 

Van Baalen, Martha, 1009 Indiana Ave., LaPorte, Ind. 

Van Blarcom, Leah G., 308 West Euclid Ave., Pittsburg, Kansas. 

Vanderbilt, Sadie B., 216 West 103d St., New York City. 

Van Duyne, Miss Florence, 246 Summer Ave., Newark, N. J. 

Van Duzer, Miss Adelaide Laura, 1824 East 79th St., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Van Nostrand, Nora A., Box 123, Gilmanton, N. H. 

Van Rensselear, Martha, 811 E. State St., Ithaca, N. Y. 

Van Zile, Mrs. Mary P., Manhattan, Kansas. 

Veditz, Dr. C. W. A., George Washington University, Washington, D. C. 

Vial, Grace Medora, Rockford College, Rockford, 111. 

Vincent, Harriet L., 133 E. Circle Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Vivian, Prof. Alfred, 375 West 8th Ave., Columbus, O. 

von Bliicher, Marie M., College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Wade, Mrs. Mary L., 6 Prospect St., Atlantic, Mass. 

Waite, Charlotte A., 616 W. Walnut St., Kalamazoo, Mich. 

Waite, Mr. Geo. S., 616 W. Walnut St., Kalamazoo, Mich. 

Walker, Mrs. A. E., Hinsdale, 111. 

Walker, Helen Adelaide, Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn. 

Walker, Lula V., 2023 W. North Ave., Baltimore, Md. 

Ward, Mabel, Columbus, Miss. 

Ward, May, 138 E. 14th North St., Provo, Utah. 

Wardall, Ruth A., Ohio State University, Hayes Hall, Columbia, Ohio. 

Warren, Elsie, 209 Ashley Ave., Charleston, S. C. 

Waston, Mrs. Carrie Syphax, 2124 F St.. N. W. Washington, D. C. 

Watson, Miss Marj' Urie, Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Ont.. Canada. 

Waugh, Miss Louise, Penn. State College, State College. Penn. 

Webster, Mrs. Grace H., 5405 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Webster, Mrs. Sara, Hospital for the Insane, Penetanguishene, Ontario, 

Canada. 
Weeks, Mrs. John R., 28 Lathrop Ave., Binghamton. N. Y. 
Weer, L. E., 711 E. 22nd St.. Baltimore, Md. 
Wehlan, Bertha, 322 Mulberry St., Scranton, Penn. 
^^■eigley, Mildred, 627 Western Avenue, Joliet, 111. 
Welch, Miss Mary E., Oak Bluffs, Mass. 
Weld, Miss Emma S., 3647 Rhodes Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Weld, Mrs. Lena Rowley, 1354 Monroe St., Washington, D. C. 
Wellman, Mabel T., 5854 Rosalie Court, Chicago. 111. 



1909] List of Members in 

Wells, Florence E., 1023 Madison St., Saginaw, W. S., Mich. 

Wheeler, Ruth, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, X. Y. 

Whitaker, Mrs. Alice E., 1404 Harvard St., X. W. Washington, D. C. 

Whitcomb, Harriet, Littauer Hospital, Glovers\^lle, X. Y. 

Whitcomb, Frank H., Huntington Chambers, Boston, Mass. 

White, Edna X., Hayes Hall, O. S. U., Columbus, Ohio. 

White, Elizabeth S., 524 Garfield Ave., Chicago, 111. 

White, Hettie, Beaver, Utah. 

White, Dr. J. G., White Sanitorium, Freeport, 111. 

White, Miss Marian, McKinley Manual Training School, Washingjton, D. C. 

Whittemore, Miss Margaret, Rock Hill, South Carolina. 

Whitney, J., 237 East 104th St., Xew York City. 

Whittemore, Henry, Framingham, Mass. 

Whitin, E. Stagg, Hartley Hall, Columbia University, Xew York City. 

Whitmore, Mrs. W. G., Valley, Xebraska. 

Wilbor, Ma^\^ Pittsford, X. Y. 

Wile, Dr. Ira S., 2493 Broadway, Xew York City. 

Willard, Florence, 16 Mead Ave., Passaic, X. J. 

Williams, Mrs. Ada B., 3709 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Williams, Florence Marion, 392 West Avenue, Rochester, X. Y. 

WilUams, Margaret, 1447 Pacific St., Brooklyn, X. Y. 

Williams, Mrs. Mary E., 123 West 183rd St., University Heights, X.Y. City 

Williams, Clara G., Spokane Public Schools, 4th Ave. and Stevens St., 

Spokane, Wash. 
Williams, Margaret M., Flat River, Missouri. 

Willis, Miss Clara, Kansas State Agricultural College, Manhattan, Kansas. 
Wilson, Miss Marcie, College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 
Wilson, Melissa, 651 Hinman Ave., Evanston, 111. 
Winans, Katherine, 4425 Marmion Way, Los Angeles, Cal. 
Winchell, Cora M., 176 Elm Ave., Mount Vernon, X. Y. 
Winchell, Miss Florence, 176 Elm Ave., Mt. Vernon, X. Y. 
Winslow, Miss Corisande, 3709 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Wood, Miss Angeline, Menomonie, Wis. 

Wood, Dr. Thomas D., Columbia University, Xew York City. 
V/oolman, Mrs. Mary Schenck, Teachers College, Columbia University, 

New York City. 
Wright, Mrs. William S., care of Miss Maria Parloa, Bethel, Conn. 
Wyman, Mary Louise, 505 West 122nd St., Xew York Citj-. 
Wyckoff, Edith Lucille, 63rd St. and Central Park West, Xew York City. 

Yale, Louise Pomeroy, 3848 Charlotte St., Kansas City, Mo. 
Yenawine, Ora G., 606 X. 7th St., Kansas City, Kansas 

Zurhorst, Miss Mary Arline, 1754 & 1756 M. St. X. W., Washington, D. C. 



College Advertisements 



THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 

offers graduate and undergraduate courses in Household Administration, 
including among others, Food Supplies and Dietaries, The Application of 
Heat to Food Material, Chemistry of Foods, Sanitation, The Evolution of 
the House, The State in Relation to the Household, and The Organization 
of the Retail Market. Opportunity is offered for advanced and research 
work. 

Two year and four-year courses for teachers, leading respectively to 
certificate and degree, include work in the various sciences, with their 
applications to the household, in textiles, in art and household decoration, 
in economics and sociology, and in the theory and practice of teaching. 

Some of the courses in the Department are also offered by correspon- 
dence. 

The Summer Quarter of 1900 opens June 21st. 

For further information apply to, THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO. 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE 

offers a four-year course in Home Economics leading to the degree of the 
college. The Home Economics department has the cooperation of other 
departments in the University, offering subjects which have a direct 
bearing upon the study. Tuition is free, as the department is in the State 
College of Agriculture. A winter course in Home Economics is offered in 
connection with winter courses in Agriculture. 

Registrar, Cornell University, Ith.^ca, New York. 

DREXEL INSTITUTE 

PHILADELPHIA 

DEPARTMENT OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Offers Normal Course in Domestic Science and courses in Household 
Science and Economics. 

DEPARTMENT OF DOMESTIC ARTS 

Offers Normal Course in Domestic Arts and courses in Basketry and 
Weaving, Sewing, Dressmaking, and Millinery, and the History of Costume 

JAMES MacALISTER, LL.D., President 
For circulars apply to the Registrar. 



THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 

DEPARTMENT OF HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE 
Offers four years course in the Colleges of Agriculture or Liberal Arts . 

COURSE FOR TEACHERS 

Special facilities for graduate students in studying the problems of the 
home, on the scientific and economic side, in a house used as a laboratory. 



I 




J^, 



iLijisnr 



THE 

JournaL/Home Economics 

Vol. I. APRIL, 1909 No. 2 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE TEACHERS IN THE CAMPAIGN 
AGAINST TUBERCULOSIS.^ 

Ira S. Wile, M.S., M.D. 
New York City. 

What may the domestic science teacher do to further the 
campaign against tuberculosis? What may the pubHc school 
teacher and the settlement teacher do in this connection? Can 
certain lessons be definitely planned for the discussion of this 
subject, and what facts would be safe to teach children ? 

This, in a vague way, represents the subject of our discussion. 
If there is a health problem, domestic science teachers should 
know its solution ; the real difficulty is in teaching this solution 
to others. The problem is that we are dealing in algebraic 
manner with unknown quantities in our variety of children. 

Health is as important as education. While there is con- 
siderable agitation about teaching children some vocation to 
enable them to earn money, there is little agitation about making 
them able to earn it. When the position of health in education is 
recognized fully, domestic science will be correlated with the 
work of the visiting nurse, the medical inspector, and the gymnas- 
tic director, into a department of school hygiene which at present 
seems a necessity. Domestic science involves the improvement 
of the home through the medium of the school. The settlement 
teacher reaches the home also but through the mother directly. 
It must not be forgotten that the mother is the manager of the 
home. The home is an index of the mother, and as teachers 
frrm child character with their ordinary A B C, so domestic 
science teachers determine, in part, the character of the home. 
What is done during the school years to protect health and to 
jt regarding health? In one system of schools, for the 



'Read before Home Economics Association of Greater New York, November 21, 1908. 

117 



ii8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

first three years there is some informal talk on physiology and 
hygiene, and in the sixth year social hygiene is taught; but in 
these years health has not really been regarded as an object of 
education, although the need of health instruction, and especi- 
ally as regards tuberculosis, cannot be gainsaid. 

According to Prof. Ganghofner, in a series of eighteen hundred 
autopsies on children dying of diseases other than tuberculosis, 
he found in the children between the ages of four and six years, 
26.9 % infected with tuberculosis; between the ages of four and 
six years, 26.8% infected with tuberculosis, and these represent 
percentages of tuberculosis infection where children did not 
develop a real tuberculous condition. Comet has determined 
the mortality of tuberculosis under fifteen years to be 8.8% for 
males, and 10.4% for females. In Paris, Grancher found 15% of 
tuberculosis among 1426 children whom he examined. Sachs 
has well stated: "The increase in the frequency of tuberculosis, 
with the advance of age from childhood to adult Ufe, makes it 
evident that eradication of tuberculosis from human life can 
never be accompUshed unless the child first of all is protected 
from infection." Schlossman more positively has stated "A 
successful campaign against tuberculosis can be waged only if we 
prevent infection during childhood, for it is during this period of 
life in a great majority of cases that infection takes place, al- 
though the disease itself may not become manifest until later in 
Hfe." A large percentage of the cases of tuberculosis in children 
is due to direct exposure to infection. Tuberculous parents, 
tuberculous relatives, tuberculous attendants, must be blamed 
for a large percentage of the infection of children with tuberculo- 
sis. It is a dire calamity that the invalid of the household is 
frequently the one to whom are entrusted the children, espec- 
ially when the healthy adults are obliged to leave the home for 
employment ; and it is to such sources of infection, rather than to 
the milk supplies, that we must attend in order to lessen the 
morbidity from tuberculosis. We must not lose sight of the fact 
that morbidity, is more important in considering social diseases 
than mortality because fully five persons are sick to one who dies. 
If Dr. Knopf be correct in calling a tuberculous predisposition 
"physiologic poverty," the problem of the prevention of tuber- 
culosis in the public school system must be begun directly in the 
home. A child should not be forced to go to School, nor should 



1909] Science Teachers in Campaign Against Tuberculosis 119 

the domestic science teacher do aught to urge children of tuber- 
culous parentage to remain in school, until they have reached the 
age of eight or nine years ; and if such pleasant things as the 
"waldschule" exist, a special appeal should be made to the 
parents to permit the child to attend such an open air school in 
order to strengthen it and overcome its predisposition to tuber- 
culosis. In investigating the relations of the industries of 
Worcester to tuberculosis, Getchell found that of each ten thou- 
sand cases of tuberculosis, 225 cases occurred among housewives 
and 66 cases among children and students. He states "If it 
shows anything, it emphasizes the belief that the disease im- 
plants itself in the home ; that it develops most rapidly in those 
who lead a sedentary life ; that it occurs more often in the un- 
skilled workman who earns small wages and consequently cannot 
house and feed himself adequately." 

In regard to the question of food, we have heard much discus- 
sion regarding breakfastless school in the City of New York. 
We know that Hunter has claimed that here are 60,000 to 
70,000 school children in New York City, "who often arrive at 
school hungry, unfitted to do well the work required." I agree 
that, if education is compulsory, the school system should also 
require that children be compelled to be in proper condition to do 
their school work. But it is not a question of breakfast. We are 
well acquainted with the capricious appetites of children, with 
their tendency to get up late and bolt their food, or go to school 
without any, and we know that this is no more a characteristic 
of the children of poverty than of those who dwell in comfortable 
circumstances. We know that poor feeding, the giving of coffee 
and tea, poor ventilation, poor hygiene, no matter what the condi- 
tions may be, are large factors in regulating the important ques- 
tion of feeding children, and I largely feel that the answer to the 
problem is that it is one of misdirected feeding through ignorance, 
rather than under feeding through lack of means. When one 
pauses to consider that a standard diet for tuberculosis, worked 
out by Bards well and Chapman, sufficient for the treatment of 
the average tuberculosis individual can be secured at a minimum 
cost of eight pence a day, we can appreciate that our attention to 
the economic problem of dietetics with relation to tuberculosis, 
has been exceedingly lacking. 



I20 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

With domestic science really teaching management of the 
home, the object of its work is to teach, instead of the three 
R's, the three H's— Health, Happiness, Home. The subject of 
physiology and hygiene contains much really belonging to 
domestic science, and in so far as the hygiene of the home is the 
collective effort resulting from individual hygiene, hygiene as it 
should be taught in the lower classes is distinctively a part of the 
work of domestic science. 

The course of hygiene at present existing in our New York 
public schools is interesting. In the class lA, there are talks on 
cleanliness and correct habits and the effects of alcohol and 
narcotics ; in 2 A, on dietetics, care of the teeth, effects of alcohol 
and narcotics. Not until grade 4 A, is the need of pure air, 
ventilation, rest, sleep, care of the eyes, and care of the hair 
taught, but the effects of alcohol and narcotics is deemed neces- 
sary as the very first instruction in hygiene. It is apparently 
more important to teach our children that their parents are 
likely to be drunkards with hardened livers, because they have 
taken their daily glass of beer than to teach our children the need 
of having the windows open at night or to keep their hair well 
combed and nails well trimmed. It is far more important, ap- 
parently, that the children should learn the baneful effects of 
cigars and cigarettes at a tender age, than that they should 
know the necessity of play, correct posture and proper clothing. 
Tooth-brush classes instituted in lA would be of far greater 
physical good to the children than informal talks on alcohol and 
narcotics. Unfortunately, I may say in passing, I am informed 
that the teaching of hygiene in the first few years of our public 
schools, is so splendidly neglected that its value is greatly lessened. 
There is no doubt that the time to teach domestic science is 
when the law gives the children to the schools for education. 
Physical education should be compulsory. The idea of social 
health should be inculcated from the very beginning of the 
curriculum. Domestic science should be begun among the 
yotmgest of children where the death rate is the highest. People 
frequently advocate leaving the teaching of hygiene and its 
relation to home environment, entirely to the parents. But 
what does the average mother know of domestic science — these 
willing mothers who have been educated in the same school 
when even less attention was paid to hygiene ? ' How much^does 



1909] Science Teachers in Campaign Against Tuberculosis 121 

the foreign population, daily coming to our shores from rural 
districts in Europe, know of the hygiene relating to life in a large 
city? 

I believe that the domestic science teachers should busy them- 
selves to secure legislation that will at least make a beginning in 
the proper care of our children, at the very time that they enter 
the public schools. I believe that when each child is taken to 
school for the first time, the mother or father or guardian, should 
be given a card on the style of our present tuberculosis catechism, 
requesting co-operation in the elfforts of a Department of School 
Hygiene to keep the child well during the period of school life, 
and suggesting in such a catechism the ground work in hygiene 
essential to the maintenance of a high standard of physical health. 
I believe that all cases of tuberculosis in households should be re- 
ported to the public school authorities, and those homes from 
which children go to the public schools should be investigated, 
and special attention given to the establishment of a correct mode 
of life on the part of the tuberculous individual, so as to prevent 
the infection of the children of the household. Do not mistake 
my intention — I do not wish to make tuberculosis the bete noir of 
child life. Make the maintenance of health the goal and that will 
involve sufficient of an attack upon tuberculosis. Do not aim to 
develop tuberculo-phobes or microbe-phobes or worriers. "The 
bacteria will catch you if you don't watch out, "is a poor pedagogic 
method. Teach a child that there is sickness but do not instil a 
fear of it. Make health a paramount issue and base the rules of 
life on the necessity of keeping well. The child in the earliest 
grade can be taught the value of personal hygiene and social 
hygiene and the results to be obtained from each. 

The problem of tuberculosis is divided into that of the preven- 
tion and the cure, and the domestic science teacher must give 
attention to both. Under the head of general prevention, she 
must give her attention to those things which will develop bodily 
vigor and lessen likelihood of infection. She must be able to 
counsel as regards breast-feeding, use of alcohol, the correction of 
physical deformities and proper diets at various ages. She 
must be able to authoritatively advise regarding cleaning and 
disinfection of homes previously occupied by tuberculous indi- 
viduals. Sunshine, ventilation, creeping children, pacifiers and 
tasting of food by mothers, are all subjects within her province. 



122 Tlie Journal of Home Economics [April 

The milk supply, the water supply, sewage disposal, the con- 
tagiosity of coughs and colds and the segregation of tuberculous 
parents, are subjects of especial importance to her. It is not a 
question of teaching how to cook, but how to live. Nutrition 
depends first upon proper mastication, therefore dental supervi- 
sion is within her province. 

Thus far there has been estabhshed no ratio between the cost of 
food and the death rate from tuberculosis, but there is un- 
doubtedly a ratio between the quality of the food and its 
quantity, and the death rate from tuberculosis. What the 
domestic science teacher aims to teach is the securing of the 
maximum nourishment at the lowest cost and with the greatest 
ease in preparation. You must necessarily be strongly anti- 
delicatessen. That domestic science course which first teaches 
about crullers, teas and candies, fails ignominiously at the very 
onset of its work, and I regret to say, that there are many such 
courses in the schools. What we should aim to do, is to teach 
our children how to live. Part of this, undoubtedly, comes from 
developing better cooks, still more however from developing 
economical cooks from whose savings will result better clothing 
and better housing. When our children leave the public schools 
to go to the stores and factories and homes, they should under- 
stand the necessity and the mode of securing all good foods, well 
prepared, at the cheapest price and with the utmost nourishment. 
Children should be taught that it is not a question of quantity 
of food but quality of food. The breakfastless children whom 
Hunter deplores, are no worse off than the cup-of -coffee children 

than the bolted food children. The use of individual cups and 

eating utensils, the covering of foods when not in use, the danger 
of contamination by dust, the contagion that may be spread by 
flies and other insects, are questions of the greatest moment for 
the physical comfort of the home ; and the ventilation of homes 
is a subject of no mean importance. The value of sunlight as a 
preserver of health in the home, could not be more fittingly ex- 
pressed than by Dr. Derby of the Massachusetts Board of Health : 
"Let in the sunlight and never mind the carpets; better they 
should fade than the health of the family." 

The domestic science teacher in the settlements presents a dif- 
ferent problem, because her problem is largely to secure a few con- 
verts to the dicta of domestic science and then encourage the 



1909] Science Teachers in Campaign Against Tuberculosis 123 

converts to teach the many by example. For instance, there may 
be classes for children, for adults, for pregnant women and for 
mothers. The work is intensive, classes are small, there is a 
close personal relation, and there are no restrictions on the field 
of work. In school work, however, there are large classes, pre- 
scribed courses and a dire lack of personal attention. The 
classes for mothers, the classes for little mothers, the classes 
for children, all afford wonderful opportunities for raising the 
standard of living and improving the health and the homes of our 
children. Direct instruction, such as is given by model flats is 
of inestimable value. The Association of Practical Housekeep- 
ing Centers of New York City, declares that their particular ob- 
jects are "for benevolent and educational purposes, to instruct 
by practical illustration and otherwise, people of the tenements in 
domestic science and in the art of home making." 

I wish briefly to refer to a few institutions whose work along 
the lines of domestic science is of immense social importance. 
The St. Pancras Society in England, maintains a sewing class for 
pregnant women and gives instruction in the art of constructing 
cheap meals. They maintain a school for nursing mothers, 
and provide dinners for nursing mothers, at the same time 
teaching food values and baby culture. Health lectures and 
cooking lessons are given to the mothers with special reference 
to caring for the children. The English Bread and Food Reform 
League is an educational, purely non-commercial, non-political 
association, organized to direct attention to the great importance 
of the food question, and to promote through nutrition, the 
health of the people. "Without advocating any special system 
of diet, we may urge teaching the economic and nutritive value 
of such neglected staple foods as oatmeal, barley, wheatmeal, 
rice, maize, beets, beans and lentils, nuts, fresh and dried fruits, 
green and root vegetables, as their more general use would pro- 
mote the health of all classes of society." The Ontario Women's 
Institutes were established in 1897 for the dissemination of 
knowledge relating to domestic economy, the economic and 
hygenic values of food, clothing and fuel, a more scientific 
training of children with a view to raising the general standard 
of the health and morals of the people; in short, the discussion 
of all subjects which tend to the betterment of home conditions. 
The Health Education League of Boston is endeavoring to spread 



124 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

the knowledge of the laws of health among the people through the 
circulation of sound, popular health Hterature. The Irish Wo- 
men's Health Association, under the Countess Aberdeen, seeks to 
provide nourishing food, teach cleanliness and ventilation, bath- 
ing, the buying and preparation of food, the maintenance of pure 
foods through a system of food instruction, and so forth. A most 
practical method of combating tuberculosis through domestic 
science, has been adopted by the Association for Improving the 
Condition of the Poor, of New York City, which has added to its 
staff a visiting teacher of foods and cooking. This dietitian is to 
teach mothers how to secure adequate nourishment for large 
families from small stipends. Families who were being provided 
with inadequate nourishment at Si.oo to $1.25 per day, are being 
taught how^ to live, and to live w^ell, on 70c to 75c per day; and 
the standard of health of such families will be raised. 

Instruction in hygiene, instruction in home improvement, 
protection of children from their unhygienic elders, is coming 
more and more to occupy a prominent position among the sub- 
jects of social discussion. No class of people can be more 
efficient in considering the large problem of tuberculosis than the 
domestic science teachers in this country. To mould public 
opinion, however, so as to overcome the various fetishes we daily 
worship, an efficient organization is necessary. The individual 
opinion of the domestic science teacher may be scorned, held in 
contempt, derided, but the united opinion of an intelligent 
organization pursuing a scientific policy for the social betterment 
of the community, will have an awakening effect upon a some- 
what lethargic public conscience. 



Columbia University has been giving a series of lectures twice a week 
during February, March and April on Sanitary Science and Public Health. 
The project looks to the ultimate organization of a School of Sanitary 
Science. Typical lectures in the present series were as follows: March 3, 
Public Health Problems of the Municipality, by Thomas DarHngton, M.D., 
President and Commissioner New York City Health Department ; March 
10, Public Health Problems of the State, by Eugene H. Porter, A.M., M.D., 
Commissioner of Health of the State of New York; April 12, Diseases of 
Animals Transmissible to Man. The Relation of Insects to Disease, by 
Theobold Smith, M.D., LL.D., Fabyan Professor of Comparative Path- 
ology, Harvard University; April 26, Visiting Nursing and its Influence 
on the Prevention of Disease, by Richard Clarke Cabot, M.D., Instructor 
in Clinical Medicine, Harvard University. 



TYPHOID FEVER— INFECTION AxND PREVENTION. 

Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel. 

Baltimore, Maryland. 

The weekly death record of any town or city will show that 
typhoid fever as a cause, is always present, and at times the 
number of its victims rival those of the grim leaders of the 
column, pneumonia and tuberculosis. 

In the United States, 35,000 people die every year from 
typhoid fever, a frightful record for a preventable disease; for so 
wholly preventable has it proved to be, that it ought to become, 
as some physicians have said, as rare a disease as small pox. 
Time was when typhoid fever was thought to be carried in the 
air, to "emanate" in various obscure and untraceable ways, and 
there was talk of "sporadic" cases, but it is now well known to 
be carried by a living organism called the typhoid bacillus which 
is taken into the body through the mouth. These germs are 
voided in great numbers in the excreta of the patient, not only 
during the attack, but for a varying length of time after apparent 
recovery. They remain active for a long time, even as long as 
six months in a soil containing nitrates, and by finding their 
way into food and drink they set up the disease in other indivi- 
duals. Only in this way or by infected hands or utensils coming 
in contact with the mouth, is the disease communicated. The 
typhoid germ is very widely distributed and the number of 
cases would be greater than it is, were it not that many indivi- 
cuals seem not to be susceptible to it. The old and the very 
young are almost exempt, the tendency to it being greatest 
among those who are between fifteen and thirty years of age. 
To quote Dr. Osier, "The fairest of our sons and daughters * * * 
are offered to our Minotaur; this to our shame, we do with full 
knowledge and with an easy complacency that only years of 
sinning can give." 

Water as a Carrier of Typhoid. 

In 322 American cities in 1905, the number of deaths from 
typhoid fever averaged 34 per 100,000 inhabitants. At the same 
time, the average taken from 10 European cities, was 11 per 
100,000; the comparison being of value, simply because the 

125 



126 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

great European cities obtain their water from filtration plants or 
from pure mountain streams, lakes or rivers, while the water 
supply of our own cities is in most cases subject to the pollution of 
densely populated suburban districts. There have been sudden 
dramatic outbursts of the disease, affecting as high as lo % of the 
population and due to an accidental pollution of a water supply 
generally considered good; such was the epidemic that oc- 
curred at Ithaca, New York, some years ago. Most of the water- 
borne typhoid, however, is due to the constant contamination of 
the water supply by leaking sew^er pipes and cess-pools. Unless 
the water of a town is known to be above suspicion, there is no 
positive safety in drinking what has not been boiled. 

Milk as a Source of Infection. 

Water is a mere passive carrier of germs, but a medium in 
which the typhoid bacillus can grow and multiply is an active 
agent of great danger. Milk is such a medium and it is respon- 
sible undoubtedly for more cases of this disease than is any other 
food. 

Let us suppose that an employee on a dairy farm has been on a 
journey and has drunk typhoid infected water. In due time he 
is taken ill; if very ill a doctor is called, who, if he makes a cor- 
rect diagnosis, notifies the health board immediately and the 
milk of the dairy is retired from circulation, (to use a library 
phrase) until the farm can show a clean bill of health. But sup- 
pose on the other hand that the man has but a slight rise in 
temperature, that he is indisposed rather than really ill, and 
quite able to attend to his work. These light cases, sometimes 
called "walking typhoid" are probably most dangerous of all. 
From lack of cleanly habits and especially from neglect of the 
scrupulous washing of hands before milking or touching any 
milk utensils, this person may directly plant typhoid germs in 
milk pail, strainers and pan. In this good culture ground, they 
multiply enormously and within a few weeks, a number of cases 
of the disease have developed along the milk route served by this 
dairy. More frequently, perhaps, the milk is infected by one 
who has not the disease but who is nursing a typhoid patient. 
In a number of cases on record, the patient has been cared for in 
the very room in which the milk was strained and bottled__for 
market. 



1908 Typhoid Fever — Infection and Prevention 127 

Or, the infection may have been indirect. The dejecta of a 
patient having been thrown out on the ground, the contained 
germs reach the water supply and the cans and bottles washed in 
this infected water may thus start the disease. Were doctors 
and trained nurses running this dairy farm, they would be able 
by the use of the stringent antiseptic methods in which they have 
been trained, to avoid infecting the milk, even though patients 
were being nursed in the same building. But considering the 
fact that the average individual wholly lacks such exact training, 
health boards are wise in forbidding the delivery of milk to the 
general public from a farm on which a case of infectious disease 
exists. 

Unless the source of milk is known and a competent veterinar- 
ian has declared the herd to be without disease, there is no safety 
in the use of raw milk 

The Typhoid "Carrier." 

Among the causes of typhoid fever only recently brought to 
light, must be reckoned "the typhoid carrier," the person who 
continues to harbor the germ long after apparent recovery and 
who is a menance to the health of any household, especially if in 
charge of the preparation of food. More and more of these 
cases are being discovered. Dr. Howard tells of four cases 
reported in an English town in a few months. In one of our own 
cities an institution containing nearly a hundred members, 
suffered for a year from outbreaks of the disease and the cause 
remained a mystery until a "carrier was found in the kitchen. 

May not this new and startling proof of the necessity of guard- 
ing the food supply, help to public recognition of the fact that 
the preparation of food is, in a new sense, to be classed among the 
"dangerous occupations," so that a cook may yet be required to 
carry a certificate stating that she suffers from no commimicable 
disease? 

The Typhoid Fly. 

This is the new name proposed for the musca domestica, or 
common house fly, by Dr. L. O. Howard, Chief of the Bureau of 
Entomology in Washington. He urges the adoption of this 
name "in order to call direct attention to the danger of allowing 
it to continue to breed unchecked." Every cleanly housekeeper 



128 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

hates a fly, and her instinctive dislike for unbidden guests of foul 
origin and habits, seems to be more than justified by the results 
of scientific enquiry. The fly has been made to walk across the 
sterile gelatine plate and has left tracks that reveal to the micro- 
scope what it fetches and carries. It was ten years ago at the 
time of the Cuban War that we began our real acquaintance with 
the fly and all its works. In the summer of 1898, the United 
States troops, en route to Cuba, were stationed at various camps 
in the South Atlantic States, and every camp in less than eight 
weeks was attacked with typhoid fever. The number of cases 
rapidly increased until about 20% of the soldiers had developed 
the disease, and of the total deaths in the army during the war, 
typhoid fever furnished 86%. It was found that the hygiene of 
the camps had been shamefully neglected, that offensive un- 
covered sinks, or pits, were in close proximity to the tents and, 
to quote from the official report, "Flies swarmed over infected 
fecal matter in the pits and then visited and fed upon the food 
prepared for the soldiers in the mess tents. In some instances 
where lime had been recently sprinkled over the contents of the 
pits, flies with their feet whitened wtih lime were seen walking 
over the food." To quote further: "Flies were undoubtedly 
the most active agents in the spread of typhoid fever." 

The epidemic of typhoid fever in Chicago in 1902, again fixed 
guilt upon the fly. Flies caught in undrained closets, on fences 
and in the room of a patient, were found by the bacteriologist to 
carry the bacillus on their feet. 

Flies undoubtedly carry infection to milk. An observer de- 
scribes flies as settling in a black mass on the cream separators. 
Now, if in this case, they had been feeding on the dejecta of a 
typhoid patient, they could have infected enough milk to start 
one of these outbreaks of the disease that have become famous in 
medical literature. Not only do flies carry infection on their 
feet, but there have frequently been found in the speck living 
organisms capable of setting up disease. 

The evidence against the fly is rapidly growing. Dr. Howard, 
whose researches have done much to throw light on the relation 
of this insect to the spread of disease, holds that the fly, at 
least under city conditions, must assume third rank as a typhoid 
"carrier" ; that is, next to water and milk. 



1909] Typhoid Fever — Infection and Prevention 129 

Dr. Daniel D. Jackson of the New York City Water Board, in 
his report of December, 1907, to the Committee of the Merchants' 
Association on Pollution, showed the relation of deaths from 
intestinal diseases, to the activity and prevalence of the common 
house fly ; the plotted curve rising above normal at the same time 
at which flies become prevalent, culminated at the same high 
point and fell off with slight lag at the time of the gradual falling 
off of the prevalence of the insect. Last year similar studies 
were made in the city of Washington which seem to show that 
flies are responsible for the great increase of typhoid in the late 
summer. The expensive filtration plant installed in that city 
some years ago was expected to decrease the number of typhoid 
cases by 75%, but it has failed to do so during the summer 
months. 

The campaign against the fly is already well organized. Its 
breeding places must be the first place of attack. It breeds pref- 
erably in horse manure, the vast majority of flies that are found 
in city and country, coming from this source. It also breeds in 
human excrement and in fermenting vegetable and animal 
material. 

To quote Dr. Howard: "With the careful collection of gar- 
bage in cans and their frequent removal, with the proper regula- 
tion of abattoirs, * * * and of stables in which horses are kept, 
the typhoid fly will become a rare insect." We are told, however, 
that it is too much to hope that in the near future the country 
districts will be relieved from the curse of flies, but much can be 
accomplished on any individual farm by placing the manure 
daily in a specially constructed water tight and screened pit or 
other receptacle, and keeping it well screened until it is placed 
on the land. This has been found to be cheaper and more 
effective as a m.ethod than the treatment with lime, petroleum 
or any other agent. Meanwhile, careful screening of doors and 
windows, supplemented with use of fly paper, will keep flies 
from food. A fly that falls into the milk will surely leave behind 
some of the six million or more bacteria of different varieties 
with which the tiny body is loaded. 

Raw Vegetables and Fruit. 

Typhoid fever is also carried by vegetables that are raised in 
regions where night soil is used for fertilizing. If these vege- 



130 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

tables are eaten raw, the greatest care must be used in their 
repeated cleansing in water that has been well boiled. Raw fruit 
has been known to carry infection, doubtless through filthy 
handling. All fruit should be well washed, dates and figs scalded 
and the peelings of fruit should not be eaten. 

Another source is found in the eating of raw oysters that have 
been "fattened" or swollen in fresh or brackish water, in most 
cases the sewage-infected outlet of streams. The traffic in fat- 
tened oysters should be forbidden by law, thus removing all 
danger in eating this delicious bivalve, for oysters in their natural 
beds are wholesome and free from contamination in the vast 
majority of cases. 

Considering what is now known of the methods by which ty- 
phoid fever is conveyed, what is the duty of housekeepers, 
teachers and individuals? Says one health officer: "Boil the 
water, steam the milk, keep out the flies." But we have also 
our duty to those who, from poverty or ignorance, will not take 
these precautions. 

If the water supply is to be above suspicion and milk inspection 
thorough, sufficient funds must be furnished to the city engineer 
and to the health department, and then it must be honestly 
spent. Into this side of the question we cannot enter. When 
the average citizen knows what he wants in this line, he will get it. 

On this account, and for immediate personal reasons, the 
general public must have more practical instruction concerning 
infectious diseases and their prevention. This is to be brought 
about by the press, by lectures, by placards and health tracts 
and by instruction to small groups, as is already given by the 
members of such organizations as the Instructive Visiting Nurses 
Association. The two points of greatest importance are, the 
proper disposal of human excreta in supposed health as well as 
in sickness, and the acquiring of better personal habits as to 
cleanliness. 

Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread, and 
your labor for that which satisfieth not? — Isaiah, iv. 2. 

Preserve and treat food as you would your body, remembering 
that in time food will be your body. — B. W. Richardson. 

"The palate is the janitor, and unless he is conciliated, the 
most nutritious food will find no welcome." 




Caleb Ticknor, M. D., 1S05 1840 
Author of The Philosophy of Living, i8j6. 
From an ivorv miniature owned by Miss Grace Warnc 
Salisbury, Conn. 



CALEB TICKNOR. AN EARLY AMERICAN WRITER ON 
NUTRITION. 1805-1840. 

C. F. Langworthy. 

U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Caleb Ticknor was born in 1805, in Salisbury, Connecticut, and 
died in 1840 in New York City. He was one of the early Ameri- 
can writers who interested himself in the subject of human 
nutrition. Doctor Ticknor was graduated from the Medical 
Department of the University of Pennsylvania in 1829 and sub- 
mitted as his thesis for the doctor's degree an article on "The 
Influence of Diet, Dress and Amusement upon Health." This 
material was later expanded into a book dealing with the same 
general subject. Doctor Ticknor's discussions are very interest- 
ing and are characterized by keen insight and good judgment. 
Many of his general statements are applicable to present day 
conditions. 

The title page of Ticknor's thesis was as follows : "An Inaugural 
Essay on the Influence of Diet, Dress and Amusements Upon 
Health ; For the Degree of Doctor of Medicine in the University 
of Pennsylvania by Caleb Ticknor, Salisbury, Connecticut, 
January, 1829." The thesis is endorsed: "Passed, March 5. 
1829," and "ad cund of Westown School of N. York." The fol- 
lowing quotations are taken from the thesis, the first from the 
preface : 

"The medical faculty are entrusted with the lives and health of 
their fellow creatures, and are responsible for the faithful dis- 
charge of duties devolving upon them as guardians of the public 
health. 

"The object of the profession is to cure and prevent disease; 
and since this is the case, the attainment of so laudauble an end 
ought in no wise to be defeated, by neglecting to censure the 
follies of gay and thoughtless youth, as well as to correct the 
errors of those of a more mature age. The influence of physicians 
in society is more or less extensive, and should be exerted to the 
utmost in the promotion of health and happiness, by reforming 
error, reproving folly, and discountenancing vice and immorality. 
"We shall proceed, without further prefatory remarks, to con- 
sider, in a cursory manner, the influence of diet, dress and 
amusements, upon the health of the present generation. 

i;5i 



132 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

After this introduction the section on diet follows and practi- 
cally all of this is quoted. 

"No one cause of disease produces effects more injurious or 
extensive than unwholesome or improper diet. An article of 
food, if used without discretion may be productive of disease; 
whilst, taken properly, it may add strength and vigor to the 
constitution ; or it may produce unpleasant or injurious effects 
in one person, whilst in another it may prove altogether innoc- 
uous, or rather wholesome and nourishing. These effects of diet, 
so discrepant in different individuals, or in the same individual 
at different times, depend, in part, on idiosyncrasy, in part on 
the state of the system, but most of all, on the distorted and un- 
natural character of whatever is served up in the shape of food. 

"The intention of the Creator was, evidently, that man should 
derive his means of subsistence from the animal as well as vegetable 
kingdom; this we infer from the structure of the human frame, 
besides having direct proof of it in revelation. The m^ore simple 
are the articles of nourishment, the more do they contribute to 
health, comfort, and longevity. In support of this proposition 
we have but to look back at the antediluvians, and contemplate 
the instances of extreme old age there to be met with. Society 
was then in a simple state; and refinement, with the Hydra- 
headed monster Luxury, had not yet made its appearance. When 
the wickedness of man became great upon the earth, human life 
was shortened \ 'Pres au deluge se rangent le decroissement de 
la vie humaine; le changement dans le vivre, et une nouvelle 
nourriture substituee aux fruits de la terre.' The mode of living 
among the aborigines of our country goes, also, to show the 
salutary tendency of simplicity in diet — their meat being the 
flesh of animals killed in the chase, or fish taken from lakes and 
rivers, whilst their sole drink is the only beverage provided for 
man by the hand of Nature. Where do we find a people that can 
equal these children of the wilderness in enduring hunger and 
thirst, cold and heat, or excessive fatigue in any undertaking.? 
But mark the change in their physical as well as moral nature, on 
the introduction of the habits of the white man, unless Christian- 
ity, at the same time, diffuse its benign influence among them. 

"To draw proofs from those a little more nearly related to our- 
selves, we find none better suited to our purpose than the Pil- 

•Bossuet — L'histoire universelle. 



1909] Caleb Ticknor, an Early Writer 011 Nutrition 133 

grims, the ancient settlers of Nev\^ England. Correct, and even 
rigid, in their habits of morality, and compelled to subsist on the 
most homely fare, and accustomed to vigorous exercise, they en- 
joyed that health and energy, both of body and mind, which 
their degenerate offspring, at this day, little dream of. Were we 
to seek for evidence still stronger, we have but to bring the sub- 
ject directly home, and contrast the two classes found among 
ourselves; to wit, the rich and the poor. The rich use that 
diet which may be chosen by a capricious appetite, or which 
fancy may dictate, while the poor use that which may be de- 
manded by nature or which circumstances allow. The counte- 
nance of a person will, at a mere glance, indicate to which class he 
belongs, as well as point out the degree of health and constitu- 
tional vigor that he enjoys. The indigent but temperate laborer 
has the glow of health upon his cheek, while the wealthy and 
luxurious has, generally speaking, an artificial freshness of 
countenance, or a complexion faded and sallow. It does not 
follow as a necessary consequence ,that, because a man is rich he 
must be a glutton or wine-bibber — but 'man is the creature of 
circumstances,' and those who have it in their power to often yield 
themselves up to the indulgence of every wayward appetite and 
passion. 

"The diet of the two sexes is different, and so are the diseases 
to which each sex is obnoxious. Many among the male sex are 
accustomed to taking in no very small quantity, solid food of 
different dishes highly spiced, and agreeably flavored, that the 
pleasures of the taste may be prolonged after the demands of 
hunger are satisfied. The overloaded stomach now requires aid 
in digesting its contents; and brandy or wine, or both, are taken, 
as being the best solvents of this heterogeneous compound — or 
rather, as being stimulants most appropriate to the case. Such 
delicate and complicated organs as are concerned in the process 
of digestion cannot long endure the preter-natural task imposed 
on them, and the constant goading and stimulating to which 
they are subject. As a consequence of this mode of living, en- 
gorgement of some vital organ, or a low degree of inflammation of 
some one viscus, is, sooner or later, sure to ensue — hence, a host 
of diseases, v.^ell known in this civilized and enlightened age 
under the names of gout, dyspepsia, dropsy, etc. 



134 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

"The diet of females unlike that of the other sex, consists in a 
great measure of pastry, sweetmeats, and other articles of this 
class, than which nothing taken into the stomach is more indi- 
gestible or less nutritive ; and this is more especially true if the 
constitution be feeble and delicate. The sedentary life of most 
females predisposed them to numerous complaints peculiar 
to the sex ; and the diet of which they make use tends to excite 
some of these complaints into action, while it increases the sus- 
ceptibility of the system to others. Their drinks too are relaxing 
and debilitating, and as unwholesome as their food; hot tea and 
coffee being their principal beverages. Thus, instead of a 
rosy cheek and laughing lip, among the sisterhood, we find a 
countenance sorrowful and wearing the paleness of the lily. 

"Every country and every clime have been ransacked for some- 
thing that may please the dainty palates of our modern epicure- 
ans. The daily and most common meals of the great 
majority of people of this day, are composed of the products of 
different quarters of the globe. Nearly every article of our diet 
is artificial, both of food and drink. The ingenuity of man has 
been tortured to discover some new product, or some new 
combination, that might gratify a fastidious appetite. Our 
most delicious fruits, and even our most valuable and nutritious 
grains, have been made to yield an intoxicating liquor — a 
poison that has destroyed countless thousands, and a curse 
nearly as grievous and almost as much to be dreaded by our 
happy country, as were, in ancient times, the plagues to be feared 
by Egypt." 

Sections on dress and amusements follow the section on diet 
but as they are of less interest to students of nutrition they have 
not been copied. The original manuscript of Ticknor's thesis is 
bound up in the University of Pennsylvania collections in Thesis, 
Vol. 49. So far as can be learned, the thesis, or, as it might more 
properly be called, essay, for it reports no original work, was never 
published. It was, however, expanded into Ticknor's book on 
"The Philosophy of Living," published by Harper and Brothers 
in 1836, but which, as the author states, was mostly written in the 
early part of 1834. Some quotations from the volume follow, 
the first being from the general introduction. 

"On investigation it is found that the great amount of dis- 
content, unhappiness, disease, and misery, is owing to an im- 



1909] Caleb Ticknor, an Early Writer on Xnirition 135 

proper or unwise use of the good things of this world. A bounti- 
ful Providence has bestowed upon his creatures multitudes of 
blessings and luxuries to gratify both taste and sense, and as 
long as they are enjoyed in the spirit of true philosophy, they will 
contribute to our health, comfort, and happiness. But here lies 
the error — men do not rightly consider to what extent indulgence 
may be carried, consistently with their well being or that of those 
upon whom their example may have an influence. . . Our fellow- 
men are not altogether in blame, neither are they altogether ex- 
cusable, for not acting more in obedience to reason and the 
requirements of nature. They are not well enough acquainted 
with the law^s of their organization and the wants of the system 
to act, in all cases, in conformity, thereto; yet, with the exercise 
of what knowledge they have, and the right use of reason, many 
of the miseries under which they now groan might be averted. 
To aid them in acquiring the necessary information, as well as to 
assist in its application, is the object of the following pages. 

"If it is true that it is good for 'a man to eat and drink, and en- 
joy the good of his labour,' two inferences may be drawn from the 
proposition which are equally true: first, that enjoyment is in- 
compatible with excess of indulgence; and, second, that absti- 
nence from the good creatures given us is throwing away, and 
voluntarily placing beyond our reach, the means of a rational 
and innocent enjoyment. 

"Indulgence in eating is known by all medical men to be a 
fruitful source of disease ; and not only members of the medical 
profession, but others have speculated to great extent on the 
question as to what is the most proper food for man. By some, 
animal food has been condemned, and a vegetable diet recom- 
mended as the only kind fit for rational man; and even at this 
day there are those who advocate a return to the simple and 
wholesome fare of the patriarchs. Were we placed in circum- 
stances parallel to those under which the patriarchs lived, there 
would be more reason in urging us to adopt their mode of life. . . 
Much credit is due to those benevolent individuals and associa- 
tions whose object is the reformation and improvement of our 
species; but it may be feared lest, by aiming at too much, at 
almost perfection, they may ultimately fail of even moderate 
success. Now, if we cannot accomplish all the good that is 
desirable, and if we are likely to fail of any by attempting too 
much, it is wisdom to let our efforts be more lim.ited. . . 



136 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

"The subject of diet has of late been much hackneyed; books 
have been written on digestion and indigestion, and the pubhc 
have been drilled and lectured, till no doubt they are sufficiently 
wearied. Every article of food or drink has in its turn been 
alternately praised and condemned, so that if, on the one hand, 
we were to eat as we are advised, we should be surfeited, and on 
the other, were w^e to abstain from those articles condemned and 
prohibited by some one, we should die of sheer hunger. Let us 
therefore consider the influence which diet has upon the health 
and happiness of man ; and if we divest ourseh'es of prejudice in 
favour of either vegetable or animal food, or the bran bread and 
cold water system, we shall be the more likely to arrive at a 
legitimate conclusion. . . 

Under the heading "Aliment or Food"Ticknor gives the defi- 
nition of food which is essentially similar to the definition in 
most of the text-books now in use except that no reference is 
made to the energy value of food. This is of course what would 
be expected as the theories of body energetics had not been 
formulated in 1834. Ticknor also fails to give the real value to 
ash constituents. 

"By aliment, or food, is meant those substances which when 
taken into the stomach nourish the body, sustain it in its growth 
and development, and repair its losses. Anything, therefore, 
incapable of doing this is not an aliment. Organic substances 
alone constitute aliments, and it is, consequently, derived ex- 
clusively from vegetables and animals. Substances most com- 
monly employed as food do not consist entirely of aliment, but 
combined with the nutritious principles are others of a harmless or 
deleterious character, over which the digestive organs have little 
or no influence. Aliment is not the same for all animals. Some 
can subsist alone on vegetables, and are therefore called herbivor- 
ous; others again can live only on animal food, and are called 
carnivorous; while some again, among which is man, can be 
supported, on either, and are styled omnivorous. 

"The preparation of food influences, its qualities and the 
actions it excites in the economy. The art of cookery, though 
tmattended to by physicians, is almost as much a branch of medi- 
cine as pharmacy, and nearly as important in the management of 
diseases. The object of cookery should be to render food di- 
gestible, to diminish the labour of the stomach, to present the 



April] Caleb Ticknor, an Early Writer on Nutrition 137 

nutritive principles as much divested as possible of extraneous 
matter, to destroy its injurious properties, and to adapt it, in the 
preparation of dishes, to the powers of the digestive organs, the 
individual temperament, the predisposition to disease, or disease 
actually existing. The prolongation of life and enjoyment of 
health are more immediately dependent on good cookery than on 
medicine. Health cannot be long maintained where there is a 
bad kitchen. The per\'ersion of cookery converts the art to a 
flattery of the palate, instead of an assistant of the stomach, and 
by leading to an excessive repletion generates gout, rheumatism, 
and disposes to apoplexy and other affections. . . 

"The food that is proper to nourish a child, cannot sustain a 
man at hard labour. Every farmer knows that his horses will 
live, thrive, and even grow fat on grass alone; but he knows very 
well, too, that with much work or driving, they would soon wear 
out and die, were it not for the grain that he is obliged to feed 
them. Animal life is much the same, whether it be in man or in 
a horse; and the same principles that are applicable to the one, 
are equally applicable to the other. . ." 

In the section "Vegetable Versus Animal Diet" Ticknor dis- 
cusses among other things the question of coarse bread in com- 
parison with ordinary flour, a topic which was of special interest 
at the time owing to the theories advocated by Graham. 

"The advocates of both vegetable and animal diet believe, or 
affect to belicA^e, their arguments conclusive, because they are 
drawn from their own individual experience; rice and hominy, 
or brown bread, suit one man, and therefore, rice and hominy, 
or brown bread, must be the only proper food for everybody. 
Or another finds that beef steak and ship biscuit agree the best 
with him, and therefore everybody should eat nothing but beef 
steak and ship biscuit. This kind of reasoning is equally false 
and puerile, and should make no impression on a philosophic 
mind; for by such logic we can prove that every article of food 
is both good and bad. 

"When two cases are in all points exactly parallel, then what 
may be proper for one will be also proper for the other ; but such 
cases are seldom to be met with : individuals differ in so many 
respects that the old proverb is strictly true, 'What is food for one 
is poison to another.' Unfortunately for the advocates of an 
exclusive diet, they have all, or nearly all, been confirmed 



J ^g The Journal of Home Economics [April 

dyspeptics or hypochondriacs; and it is not often that what is 
suitable for a sick man will be proper for one in health. The 
writer does not, therefore, address himself particularly to in- 
valids ; he comes as a friend to those who are enjoying health, and 
wish still to enjoy it, and with it some at least, of the blessings 
which a generous Benefactor has bestowed upon them. 

"It is said that in a 'multitude of counsellors there is safety;' 
but it often happens that in the contrariety of their counsel an 
ordinary mind is so bewildered and confused that it is almost im- 
possible to come to any conclusion. . . 

"Retrenchment and self-mortification seem to be the order of 
the day in relation to food and drink; there being no virtue, on 
the principle of radicalism,which does not consist in going counter 
to the appetites and instincts of nature. 'Let us be temperate 
in our meats and drinks,' says one, 'and use the world as not 
abusing it.' 'No,' says another; 'but let us rather eat no meat 
while the world stands, and as to drink, let that be cold water.' " 
Such sentiments have been put forth on the subject of diet, and 
such ultra measures urged, that the very injury is caused which is 
attempted to be averted— to wit, ill health and consequent 
unhappiness. . . 

"Comaro is the standard nowadays— the mirror by which 
every man's nature is to be reflected— the great exemplar which 
every man is to imitate. Lewis Comaro was a Venetian noble- 
man, who, by dissipation and debauchery at an early age, ruined 
his h'ealth'and broke down his constitution; but by the advice of 
his physicians, he reduced his diet to twelve ounces of solid food, 
and about a pint of wine per day. This change had a most happy 
effect upon the debauchee, as it has at the present day, and will 
ever have on all who undermine their health and the strength 
of their system by the same course of vice and dissipation. 
Comaro lived to be almost a hundred years old, and the conclu- 
sion is, by those who use the scales and weights, that everybody 
should live as Comaro hved after he reformed— and so, indeed, 
they should, if they had previously lived as he did, with the same 
unhappy effect upon their health. This mode of reasoning is 
but taking the exception for the rule itself; and by it we may 
prove anything, and make of a single isolated fact a general prin- 
ciple, universal in its application. Red Jacket, the famous chief 
of the Seneca Indians, lived chiefly, as the other natives of the 



1909] Caleb Ticknor, an Early Writer on Nutrition 139 

forest do, on game, and exposed to all the vicissitudes and in- 
clemencies of our variable climate. He attained almost as great 
an age as Comaro did, and yet, during the last fifty years of his 
life, he was almost daily intoxicated. Does this prove that we 
must imitate Red Jacket, in order to live to a good old age? 
By such reasoning, I again say, we can prove anything, however 
absurd. . . 

"There is a lack of philosophy and reason in attempting to 
prove, by a few rare examples, that either vegetable or animal 
food is to be used to the entire exclusion of the other. . , 

"For the edification of those who believe bran bread to be a 
modem invention, I can barely state, that for the space of three 
hundred years, the ancient Romans ate bread made of none other 
than unbolted flour. We find this same bread recommended for 
invalids by Tyron, a writer in the reign of William and Mary; 
and since his day, it has been universally recommended by all 
medical writers and practitioners, for a certain class of patients, 
even down to the time of our own Mr. Graham. . . 

"The hull, or bran, of wheat, contains little or no nutriment, 
and all the good it ever does, is by its mechanical irritation, in 
costive habits, to keep up a regular action of the alimentary canal — 
while, in cases of an opposite nature, it is positively injurious ; and 
he who would recommend it to patients, suffering from an already 
excited state of the digestive organs, would show himself fit to 
become the inmate of a madhouse. If any man, in the possession 
of his health and senses, prefers bread made of unbolted flour to 
any other, he runs no risk of being injured by indulging in such 
luxury — to the invalid I have only to say, . . . consult your 
physician." 

Columbia University, in co-operation with Cooper Union, has been con- 
ducting in the Great Hall of Cooper Union, New York a series of lectures, 
the "Hewitt Lectures, The Chemistry of Digestion," by William J. Gies, 
M.S., Ph.D., Professor of Biological Chemistry in Columbia University. 
The subjects were: Food; Biological and chemical qualities; Digestion 
from general standpoints; Digestion in the mouth; Digestion in the 
stomach; Digestion in the intestines; The utilization, by the body, of the 
products of digestion; Bacteria and their influence on digestion, in health 
and disease; and Digestion and nutrition as modified by special influences, 
and in disease. The lectures were appropriately illustrated with stere- 
opticon views and zeotrope figures and there were numerous chemical and 
digestive demonstrations. 



BRILLAT-SAVARIN'S "PHYSIOLOGY OF TASTE." 

Clyde Furst. 

New York City i 

"The Physiology of Taste, ^" by Anthelme Brillat-Savarin, 
Paris, 1825, is one of the classics of home economics. 

Brillat-Savarin lived from the first half of the eighteenth 
century through the first quarter of the nineteenth, first as 
mayor of his native town in France; then, during the revolution 
an exile in Switzerland and in America; and, finally, during the 
last third of his life, a judge in Paris of the highest national court. 
The fame of his professional wisdom and justice was great, but 
that of his personal benevolence and geniality far greater. The 
choicest flavor and charm of many years of social life he preserved 
in the book he apparently intended to leave, at his death, as a 
legacy of good cheer to his friends. The record of his love of 
good living was to serve him, a bachelor, as a posterity. 

His fears that so genial a production might seem inconsistent 
with his judicial dignity were overcome by arguments which are 
given in a prefatory dialogue, and the volume was published 
anonymously in 1825, a year before his death. Even in so short 
a time the book was crowned with extraordinary popularity. 
In addition to the Prefatory Dialogue and a series of Funda- 
mental Truths, the little volume includes a Preface, thirty 
"Meditations" or chapters, and, in conclusion, a dozen narrative 
and descriptive "Varieties" bearing upon the subject. The 
whole amounts to less than three hundred small pages. 

The earlier chapters, on the senses, the sense of taste, appetite, 
and thirst, are largely physiological or psychological, but even 
here the author carries out with charm his intention of touching 
but lightly subjects likely to be dull; he always practices the 
preaching of the mad poet Blake, "To particularize is the great 
distinction of merit," and everywhere he introduces "original 
anecdotes, witticisms, and similar side-dishes." Although 
Savarin separates the functions of taste into direct, complete, 
and reflective, he finds himself unable to classify its results 



'Published by arrangement with the AVa- York Evening Post. 

»The title page of the third edition reads: Physiologic du GoOt. ou. Meditations do 
Gastronomic Transcendents, par un Professeur. membre dc pluseurs sodit^s savemtes. A. 
Sautelct Cc Cie, ^diteurs, Paris. 1829. 

140 




Brillat-Savarin 
Author of Pliysiologie du Goiit. 



1909] Brillat-Savarin's '' Physiology of Taste" 141 

further than to suggest some such gradation as: positive, beef; 
comparative, veal; superlative, pheasant. For its greatest satis- 
faction one should eat slovvdy and in minute portions — Fletcher- 
ism in a sentence. Anything else would be unworthy of our 
perfected organism, "the structure of the tongue of all animals 
being analagous to the reach of their intelligence." Under 
"Thirst" there is a similar, but even more daringly imaginative 
observation: "The desire for fermented liquors and curiosity 
about a future state are the two distinctive attributes of man as 
the masterpiece of nature." 

Perhaps the most valuable, certainly the most pleasing, of the 
chapters are those on "Gastronomy," "The Love of Good Living," 
"People Fond of Good Living," "Gastronomic Tests," and on 
"The Pleasures of the Table." 

Gastronomy is defined as "the scientific knowledge of all that 
relates to man as an eater;" being founded upon natural history, 
physics, chemistry, economics, and cookery, as well as on the 
sciences already mentioned; and affecting physically, mentally, 
and morally, every individual, of every class of society, every 
moment of his life. Some knowledge of it is therefore indis- 
pensable to all, and the more as one ascends the social scale, it 
being well known that the most momentous decisions of personal 
and of national life are made at table. 

"The Love of Good Living" is shown to be not merely a 
physical, but an intellectual and a moral quality as well, "almost 
deserving to rank as a virtue;" opposing excess, developing 
discrimination, promoting physical health, and aiding moral 
resignation to the laws of nature. In addition, it is an easily and 
constantly available source of natural and innocent pleasure in a 
world of pain. 

People fond of good living, especially physicians, men of 
letters, churchmxcn, and people of sense and culture in general — 
others being incapable of the necessary appreciation and judg- 
ment — always live longer than ordinary men. Napoleon's 
worst defeats were due to his injudicious diet. Such persons 
may usually be known by their mere appearance, but for cases of 
doubt Brillat-Savarin suggests a series of "Gastronomic Tests," 
or dishes of such indisputable excellence that those who do not 
instantly respond may immediately be declared unworthy. 
Thus: For a small income, filet of veal, larded with bacon, or 



142 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

sauerkraut bristling with sausage; for a moderate income, filet 
of beef with gravy, or boiled turbot; for a generous income, 
truffled turkey, or stuffed pike with cream of prawns. It is im- 
portant in these tests that generous portions be provided, for 
quantity as well as quality has its effects. 

The conclusion of the meditation "On the Pleasures of the 
Table" must be quoted entire, so worthy is it of a place in "The 
Golden Book of HospitaHty:" "Let the number of guests be 
small, that the conversation may be constantly general; of 
various occupations, but analogous tastes; the men of wit with- 
out pretension, the women pleasant,but not coquettish. Let the 
dishes be few, but choice, and the wines of the first quality; the 
order from the more substantial to the lighter, the simpler to the 
finer flavors. Let the meal proceed without hurry or bustle; the 
coffee be hot, the liqueurs chosen with care. Let the room to 
which the guests retire be large enough for cards, for those who 
cannot do without them, while leaving ample scope for conversa- 
tion; the guests animated with the hope of still further pleasure. 
Then let the tea be not too strong,the toast artistically buttered, 
the punch skillfully made. Finally, let nobody leave before 
eleven, and everybody be in bed by twelve." 

After reaching such an elevation, Brillat-Savarin wisely follows 
the dramatic principle of reUef, by introducing anecdotes of the 
halts of a hunting party, and chapters on digestion, rest, sleep, 
and dreams. His observations and illustrations are always 
interesting and picturesque, frequently very suggestive, and 
sometimes strikingly modem — as when he says, "Digestion, of all 
the bodily functions, has most influence on the morale of the 
individual;" when he recommends for sleeping, an airy room, no 
bed curtains, and light but warm coverings; or when he dis- 
cusses foods that produce sleep, and those that induce pleasant 
dreams. 

The theme of the meditation "On Corpulence" — "The great 
majority of us eat and drink too much" — is of such general and 
permanent applicability that it is rediscovered every decade and 
announced with trumpets. The chapter "On the Prevention or 
Cure of Corpulence" outhnes the diet by means of which for 
thirty years the author kept that tendency in himself "to the 
limit of the imposing" — a statement that his portrait well bears 
out. After a counter meditation on leanness, some felicitations 



1909] Brillat-Savarin's " Physiology of Taste" 



143 



over the decline of fasting, and an excursus on "Exhaustion and 
Death" — "Death itself being not unaccompanied by pleasure 
when it is natural" — the author is again ready for a higher flight. 

This occurs in the longest chapters of the book, in the form of 
"A Philosophical History of Cookery, Ancient, Mediasval and 
Modem, with an appendix, "On Parisian Dining-Houses." 
Here, indeed, is richness; the advantages and disadvantages of 
eating raw meat, the primitive feasting in the "Iliad," the advent 
of boiling in the Old Testament, how Cadmus brought the alpha- 
bet and good cooking to Greece, the elaborate and sometimes 
strange taste of the Romans — as for dormice and assafoetida — 
and a survey of the ancient literature of the subject, from the 
fragmentary poem on gastronomy by Archestratus, to the con- 
vivial poetry of Horace and Tibullus. The whole story is told, 
although briefly, excepting only the peculiar taste of the Greeks 
for mingling sea-water and turpentine with their wines. 

The mediaeval and modem development of the art is sketched, 
although of necessity more rapidly, from the rescue of cookery 
from barbarism by Charlemagne; through the introduction of 
spices form the East, garlic from Palestine, parsley from Italy, 
coffee from Turkey, and the potato from America ; to the ages of 
pastry and of sugar, and the final culmination of the art in 
political gastronomy. Every line of this section contains such 
good things as "coffee should be crushed, not ground," and "It 
was Talleyrand who first brought from Italy the custom of tak- 
ing Parmesan cheese with soup." But to select would be to 
quote the whole. 

Restaurants seem to have been invented in Paris in 1770. 
There is a fascinating picture of the best of the author's time, 
with three hundred dishes and a hundred wines; a height of 
eloquence over the cosmopolitan sources of a good dinner;, and 
yet higher soaring over the Parisian missionaries of the doctrine 
throughout the civilized world. 

Nor does inspiration wane in the chapter on "Gastronomic 
Principles Put into Practice — ""the treasures of nature were not 
created to be trodden under foot ... a good dinner is but a 
little dearer than a bad one ... a man may show himself a dis- 
tinguished connoisseur without going beyond the limits of his 
actual needs." 



144 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

The last chapter, "Gastronomic Mythology," is pure creation — 
of Gasterea, the tenth muse, her nature, habit, aspect, and wor- 
ship ; and then — for, like Donne, "when he is done, he is not done, 
for there is more" — comes a "Transition": "in writing I had a 
double object ... to lay down the fundamental theory of 
gastronomy, so that she would take her place among the sciences 
in that rank to which she has an incontestible right. The second, 
to define with precision what must be understood by the love of 
good living, so that for all time that social quality may be kept 
apart from gluttony and intemperance, with which many have 
absurdly confounded it." 

Finally follow a generous dozen of short "Varieties" — anecdotes 
like "The Cure's Omelette"; personal experiences of "The 
Gastronome Abroad," some in America; original recipes and 
original verse; and an "Historical Elegy," in pity for the 
gastronomic ignorance of the past, and in prophetic vision of the 
full gastronomic glories of the year nineteen hundred. 

Strangely enough it was fifty years before Savarin's work was 
well enough known outside of France to be translated ; and even 
today, in spite of its delightful qualities, not one in a hundred, 
even among reading men know it. And yet although one would 
hesitate, perhaps, to call it "adorable," as Balzac did, it is cer- 
tainly one of those rarely spontaneous and charming outpourings 
of personality that belong apart, with White's "Selboume" and 
Walton's "Angler." 

The New York State Normal College, at Albany, N. Y., is planning a 
Domestic Science Laborator}^ in connection with the High School Depart- 
ment of the Institution. 



The Mount Morris Baptist Church, New York City, has arranged a series 
of Sunday morning lectures for an adult Bible Class numbering two or 
three hundred members, on the general topic "Applied Christianity." 
This is a move in the right direction. Among the topics set are several 
which fall within the field of home economics: The Tenement House 
Problem (illustrated with lantern slides). Miss Emily W. Dinwiddie; 
The Problem of Play and Amusement in New York City, James P. Lichten- 
berger, Ph.D.; The Moral Environment of the Young, Rabbi Samuel 
Schulman, D.D., and The Basis of the New Social Order, George William 
Knox, LL.D. 





Cookery and Lalndkv Labokatckies, Eui.nbi. kgh Schlmjl vf Cookekv and Dumbstic 

Economy. 



THE EDINBURGH SCHOOL OF COOKERY AND IX)MESTIC 

ECONOMY. 

Hester Ridlon. 

Simmons College, Boston. 

The Edinburgh School of Cookery and Domestic Economy, as 
reflected in its annual report and catalog, has much of suggestion 
for American workers in home economics. This institution is 
the outgrowth of a school established in 1875. ^^ is conducted 
imder the patronage of her Royal Highness the Princess Louise, 
Duchess of Argyll and the Right Honorable the Earl of Roseberry, 
K.G., K.T., etc., is its President. There are also fourteen vice- 
presidents, thirteen directors and an honorary secretary and 
honorary treasurer. The School which is located at 3 Atholl 
Crescent, Edinburgh, is under the guidance, as superintendent 
and secretary, of Miss E. de la Cour. She has with her an assist- 
ant secretary and a lady housekeeper. Besides these there are 
three senior teachers and fifteen other teachers. 

The Edinburgh School seems to be doing in its various bran- 
ches, exactly what many of our American schools are aiming 
ultimately to do or are striving to do at the present time, that is, 
reaching all classes and giving all possible training in household 
technique, both of the arts and of the sciences. Courses are 
offered for the training of teachers, for the preparation of those 
intending to enter hospitals, for the training of household 
domestics. There are besides, courses for those who desire only 
one or two subjects without any idea of turning them into a 
future source of revenue, courses for Working Women and Girls, 
courses given in the home, besides special separate lessons in 
definite subjects which are given at the school and may be given 
at the home. Night courses are added to these and a wide 
schedule of both lectures and demonstrations. 

"Students are received for any number of selected lessons or 
courses." Each course contains, on the average, ten lessons, 
though the training for certificate in the special subjects requires 
varyingly longer lengths of time. There are nine cookery courses 
offered. Three of these are demonstration courses on "Artisan 
Cookery," "Plain Cookery," and "Upper Household Cookery," 
varying in cost from 12/6 to 2/6, or from S3 .00 for ten lessons to 

145 



146 The Journal of Home Ecottomics [April 

$.50 for six lessons. Special prices are made to Cooks and to 
Working Women and Girls. The practice courses in cookery- 
include the following subjects as they are named in the catalog: 
(i) "Upper Household Cookery"; (2) "Plain Cookery"; 
(3) "Baking of Breads, Cakes, Scones, etc."; (4) "Sick Room 
Cookery"; (5) "Artisan Cookery" and (6) "Cleaning and Scul- 
lery." In the courses in actual cooking, the students may 
either buy at cost the dishes that have been made, or pay 
a higher fee for the lessons. The course in Upper Household 
Cookery is the most expensive of the six and costs either $10.50 
or $7.50 if the products are bought. The course in Cleaning and 
Scullery is somewhat unique and includes cleaning of the range, 
copper, enamel, ordinary pans, crystal, silver, etc. 

The work in Sewing, which we would designate as Domestic 
Art, includes eight courses: (i) Dressmaking (pattern making, 
fitting and measuring); (2) Blouse making; (3) Patterns for 
underclothing (patterns for shirts and children's frocks); (4) 
Knitting;' (5) Patching and mending ; (6) Advanced sewing, which 
we would call embroidery; (7) Millinery and (8) a course, as re- 
markable as the Cleaning and Scullery, which is called "Home 
Upholstery" and in which such work is taught as one ordinarily 
has done at the local upholsterer's or at the department store. 

The course in Laundry Work is ten lessons in length with a fee 
of $5.25, or one may take a half course of five lessons. The 
pupil is required to bring for the first lesson, six rough dried 
handkerchiefs, and one piece of underwear. 

There are seven lessons in Home Bookkeeping, constituting a 
course which costs $3.12. 

The lecture courses which are given cover the following sub- 
jects: I. Hygiene: (a) of the household, including foods, and 
(b) personal, including school. 

2. Home Sick Nursing, a title that we in America extirpate to 
"home nursing," and would qualify by the term "before the 
doctor comes," or "when the trained nurse cannot be afforded." 

3. Housekeeping. This course numbers ten lessons; and 
treats of the economics, the provisioning, and the division of labor 
of the household, of the cleaning of rooms, of the choice of foods, 
and of minute details of the dining room. 

4. Methods of teaching and the theory of education, for which 
the fee is $5.00. 



1909] Edinburgh Sclwol of Cookery and Domestic Economy 147 

There are five courses in special training for a certificate. 
These are : 

1. A Cook's Certificate, for which the minimum time required 
is two months, the demand being for fifty lessons and a test din- 
ner. 

2. The Upper Household Cookery certificate. The minimum 
time is six weeks, and the work must cover attendance at demon- 
strations and twenty lessons, together with an ice lesson and a 
test dinner. The cook's certificate is a prerequisite. 

3. Laundress' certificate. The work required is fifty lessons 
and demonstrations and a practical examination. The work 
includes training at a steam laundry. 

4. Housewife's diploma. The fee is $100.00. This course 
is intended primarily for young ladies as part of their ordinary 
education. It includes work in sixteen courses specified under 
cookery and sewing, together with lectures on bookkeeping, 
nursing, hygiene, household management, etc. It can and may 
be taken in six months, but must not extend over a period of two 
years if the courses are to count for a diploma. 

5. Special training for Lady Housekeepers. Fee, $85.00. 
It includes work in fifteen courses, much like the above House- 
wife's course, except that laundry work is a requirement. This, 
too, can and may be taken in six months, but must be taken 
within a year, and the student is required to be over twenty 
years of age. There are also prerequisites of what we would call 
grammar and high school education and of moral character. 

For students desiring to enter on professional training for 
nurses a course is given covering two months, the fee for which 
is $15.75. It includes lectures on physiology and hygiene to- 
gether with lectures and lessons on sick room duties, invalid and 
plain cooking, cleaning and scullery. For one desiring the lec- 
tures only in this course the fee is $10.50. 

Training is given to teachers in cookery, laundry, housewifery, 
sewing, dressmaking, and millinery. The candidate for teacher 
of cookery, laundry work or dressmaking must be eighteen 
years of age, and for sewing, seventeen years. "The training 
for cookery, laundry work, housewifery, sewing and dressmaking 
are arranged in accordance with the requirements of the Scotch 
Education Department." Training may be begun September 8 
or March i , yearly. An extra fee of $5.00 is required for examina- 



148 The Journal of Home Economics 

tion on completing training. In Cookery the fee is $175.00. 
The work includes learning by demonstration and practice; 
considerable cookery, physiology, and chemistry, together with 
practice teaching of children and adults, lectures on personal and 
school hygiene, and on the theory and practice of education. 
For Laundry Training the fee is $84.00, and the training is much 
the same as for cookery, except that the practice and theory is 
that of laundry work. The Housewifery Teachers' Training 
costs $63.00. For this is required a recognized diploma of 
cookery and laundry work as a prerequisite. It includes lec- 
tures and practice in household routine and management, mend- 
ing, cleaning, etc., etc., practice teaching and demonstrating. 
For the Training in Sewing the fee is $34.00. The work is that of 
simple sewing together with lectures on the theory and practice 
of education and hygiene, and a fortnight's practice teaching, be- 
sides what the catalog terms "test lessons." For the Training 
in Dressmaking a fee of $42.00 is required, and the prerequisite 
is a preliminary examination in plain needlework. It includes 
training in advanced sewing, dressmaking, tailoring, and dem- 
onstrations and practice teaching, as well as lectures on educa- 
tion and hygiene. In Millinery the fee is $34.00; the work 
demanded is attendance at demonstrations and four courses in 
practical millinery, together with practice teaching and demon- 
strations. There is besides these a course in so-called "High 
Class Cookery," for which the fee is $52.50. It is open only to 
teachers already holding a diploma in cookery, and the minimum 
time is three months. 

That is to say, the training for teachers includes specific 
training in their special subject, together with work in method 
and the history of education, in personal and school hygiene, 
with practice teaching and the giving of demonstrations. The 
training offered is arranged in such a way that the teacher may 
fit herself either for elementary or for secondary education in 
these special arts and sciences. 

The annual report, in addition to information about the 
courses of study, states that "Staff Teachers have given 5,485 
demonstrations and practice lessons, and in addition, have 
heard and criticised 335 Test Demonstrations by"Teachers-in- 
Training. 2,598 pupils were enrolled in the School for instruc- 
tion, varying from one lesson to extended courses, in addition 



iqoq] Edinburgh School of Cookery a^id Domestic Economy 149 

to the number who attended 350 Demonstrations and Lectures 
given by the Staff in other schools and institutions in Edinburgh 
and elsewhere." 

Certainly with so much work accomplished on a budget of 
about $35,000, and with so comfortable a balance as the report 
shows (about $1,000) after all the improvements and the repairs 
which the School undertook in the past year, 1907-1908, the 
Edinburgh School of Cookery and Domestic Economy is to be 
congratulated. 

Domestic The Journal has received from Miss Mary L. Caufield, 

Science in Supervisor of Domestic Science in Newark, New Jersey, 

Newark, N. J. a statement regarding the development of Domestic 

Science in that city which will be of interest. It is as follows: "In the 
spring of 1902, Dr. Poland, Superintendent of Schools in Newark, N. J., 
asked me to plan for the equipment of two experimental kitchens, as he 
wished to try the teaching of cookery in the summer schools before intro- 
ducing it as a part of the regular grade work. Of course, the expenditure 
for equipment had to be reduced to a minimum, until such time as the 
work warranted a greater outlay of money. In each of the two schools 
(Hamburg Place and i8th Avenue) two classes of twenty each were 
registered. The i8th Avenue girls received an hour-and-a-half lesson each 
morning, while the Hamburg Place girls received their lessons in the after- 
noon. This made six hours teaching a day with an hour at noon to change 
schools. The tables in these kitchens consisted of boards supported by 
wooden horses; on these were stood the gas plates which were supplied 
with gas through rubber tubes from above . There were no sinks in either 
kitchen, all water having to be carried some little distance from the 
courts. A scrub pail answered for a refrigerator. The work progressed 
beyond our most sanguine expectations, and at the end of six weeks the 
pupils cooked and served a course dinner to the Board of Education, the 
members of the Board being present at the preparation as well as the serv- 
ing of the dinner. That winter I was requested to take charge of classes in 
the evening schools. The registration required the services of another 
teacher, and an assistant was appointed. The following fall, domestic science 
was made part of the regular grammar school course, and the work in the 
evening schools has grown to require the services of twenty teachers. 
Fourteen schools have well equipped kitchens; one school has three 
kitchens, and two have two kitchens each. The evening school classes in- 
clude women from all walks in life, shop girls, young housekeepers and 
those expecting to be homemakers and classes of nurses from hospitals. 
It is not an unusual thing to find mother and daughter attending the same 
class in the evening school." 



HOME ECONOMICS IN UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA. 

Juniata L. Shepperd. 

St. Anthony Park, St. Paul. 

The University of Minnesota, located at Minneapolis, Minn., 
is composed of several colleges or departments, each of which 
fosters the interests of one or more special lines of work. The 
Agricultural College is the one of these with which the Home 
Economics course is connected. This course includes three 
distinct lines of work, each of which is presided over by a special- 
ist in that line; Domestic Science, Domestic Economics and 
Domestic Art. Three or four courses of different length are 
offered under the general head of home economics: (i) Agri- 
cultural High School Course. (2) Home Economics College 
Course. (3) Teacher's Short, or Normal Course. (4) A General 
University Course, supplemented by one semester's work of 
eight periods each week in home economics, divided equally 
between domestic science and domestic art. The first is the 
shortest and most elementary of the courses ; the second the 
longest and most thorough. 

The Agricultural High School Course. 

The former is designated as the Agricultural High School 
Course. It leads to no degree, prepares for no special professional 
or technical work. Its sole aim and object is to make better 
citizens. It proposes to accomplish this by imparting to as 
large a number as possible such knowledge as will be of greatest 
use in home life. This technical knowledge is combined with 
such general training as will render the graduates ready to meet 
the obligations of adults in their associations in family, society 
and public life. The chief idea of the founders of this school in 
inaugurating such a course was to provide a place with such en- 
vironment, entrance requirements, educational facilities and 
class of students, as would render it most popular with the 
young people from the rural districts. They hoped, in this way, 
to provide a high school which would advance the interests of all 
rural communities, and give to country people advantages equal 
to those which city life and schools afford. That they made no mis- 
take, the school attests, and it is well attended and now shows 

150 



1909] Home Ecoytomics in University of Minnesota 



151 



good results in both rural and urban homes. This course, on 
account of its special adaptation to rural conditions, is in session 
during the autumn and winter only of each year, and extends 
through three school years. It is now open to students who have 
finished eighth grade work in either city or rural schools. No 
one specializes; all who enter pursue the prescribed course. 
The details of this course are given below. 



Agricultural High School Course of Study. 

[Figures in brackets indicate the number of periods per week in which the subject is 
pursued. All work in subjects marked thus* extends through double time in the daily 
program.] 

FIRST (C) YEAR 



FIRST TERM 



Agrictiltural botany [5] 

♦Drawing [2] 

Music [2] 

Farm Mathematics [5] 



*Cooking [2] 

Physical training [2] 

♦Sewing [3] 

Social culture [i] 

Field agriculture [3] 



SECOND TERM 



Agricultural botanv [5] 

English [5] 

Music or literary society work [2] 

Comparative physiology [5] 

Study of breeds [5] 



♦Laundering [2] 

Drawing (farm houses) [2] 

Physical training [2] 

♦Farm Accounts [2] 



SECOND (B) YEAR 



FIRST TERM 

English [2] 
Agricultural physics [5] 
Dairy chemistry [2] 
♦Dairy ( Daiiy lectures 

husbandry- [2 }4] < Dairy practice 
( Dair>' breeds 
Fruit growing [3] 
Music [2] 

SECOND TERM 

English [2] 
Agricultural chemistry' [5] 

Dair>' stock 

lectures 
Dair>' practice 
Domestic Bac- 
i^ teriology 
Music [2] 
Agricultural physics [5] 
Vegetable gardening [j] 



♦Dairy 
husbandry [2 ^] 



♦Farm accounts [2] 

♦Cooking [2] 
Household art [i] 
Physical training [2] 
♦Sewing [2] 



♦Cooking [3] 

Home management [i] 

Physical training [2] 

♦Sewing [2] 



152 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[April 



THIRD (A) YEAR 

FIRST TERM 

Agricultural chemistry [7] 

Forestry [3] 

Entomology and zoology [3] 

Poultry [3] 

Algebra [5] Optional 

SECOND TERM 

Civics or geometry [4] 
Plant propagation [3] 
Entomology and zoology [3] 
Algebra [5] Optional 



* Cooking [2] 
* Sewing [2] 
Music [2] 



Meats [i] 

Home economy [i] 

*Cooking [3] 

Domestic chemistry [3] 

*Sewing [3] 

Domestic Hygiene [i| 



College Course in Home Economics. 

The course numbered two above, is a four-year university 
course directed along home economic Hnes. This course leads 
to the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Home Economics. It 
is open to graduates of approved high and normal schools, and of 
course, to university graduates who wish to secure technical 
knowledge and better understand the application of the various 
sciences to the affairs of the household. Details of this course 
are given below. 

College Course. 
FRESHMAN YEAR 

For graduates of approved High Schools or others of equal standing 

FIRST ; 

Rhetoric i, three hours 
Agriculture 1 1 , three hours 
Agriculture i , three hours 
Agricultural Chemistry i , five hours 



Horticulture i , two hours 
Entomology i, half semester, three 
hours 

SECOND 

Agricultural Chemistry 3, six hours 
Horticulture 3, half semester, three 

hours 
Animal Husbandry 4, half semester 

three hours 
Domestic Science i , four hours 
Domestic Art \, four hours 
Drawing 2 , half semester, four hours 
Rhetoric i , three hours 
Mathematics 3, half semester, three 

hours 



SEMESTER 

Domestic Science i , four hours 
Domestic Art i, four hours 
Drawing i , four hours 
Domestic Economics i, three hours 
Physical Training, two hours 



SEMESTER 

Horticulture 3, half semester, four 

hours 
Dairy Husbandry i, half semester, 

four hours 
Domestic Economics 3, three hours 
Anitnal Husbandry 5, half semester, 

one hour 
Physical Training, two hours 



1909] Home Economics in University of Minnesota 153 

SOPHOMORE YEAR 

FIRST SEMESTER 

Botany i (B), six hours Rhetoric 3, three hours 

Zoology I , six hours Domestic Art 2, four hours 

German or French 3 , three hours Domestic Science 2 , four hours 
Agricultural Chemistry 5, six hours 

SECOND SEMESTER 

Botany (B) i, six hours Rhetoric 3, three hours 

Zoology I , six hours Domestic Art 2 , four hours 

German or French 3 , three hours Domestic Science 3 , one hour 

Agricultural Chemistry 5, six hours Domestic Bacteriology ^, one houi 

JUNIOR YEAR 

FIRST SEMESTER 

Domestic Economics 2, three hours Agricultural Chemistry 6, six hours 

Domestic Art a,, four hours Agricultural Chemistry 7 , three hours 

Domestic Science 5 , four hours Psychology 1 , three hours 
Education i , three hours 

SECOND SEMESTER 

Domestic Science 5, four hours Farm Structures 6, three hours 

Domestic Art 4, four hours Drawing 3 , four hours 

Education 2 , three hours Domestic Art t,, three hours 
Agricultural Chemistry 9, six hours 

SENIOR YEAR 

FIRST SEMESTER 

Domestic Art 5, three hours Farm Structures 7, three hours 

Domestic Science 6, six hours English, elective, three hours 

Psychology 2 , three hours Elective, three hours 

SECOND SEMESTER 

Domestic Science 6, six hours Horticulture, elective, three hours 

Domestic Art 6, six hours Elective, three hours 

Agricultural Chemistry 13, three Elective, three hours 
hours 

This course is intended primarily for training teachers, yet it 
endeavors to prepare all young women who come under its in- 
fluence, for "home making." What the domestic science part of 
this course attempts to teach, and how this work is carried for- 
ward, may be briefly stated as follows: The first aim of this 
four-year course is to give proper emphasis to pure air and water 
and good food as the rational basis of health. Students spend 
much time during the first year, in such hbrary reading and class 



1^4 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

room work, as will enable them to understand the modem ideas 
in regard to composition and quality of food materials and their 
comparative food and money value. Practice is given in such 
methods of cooking as tend to render foods most palatable and 
digestible with the least possible waste. Laboratory practice, 
lectures, and class room discussions on similar topics, extend 
through almost the entire year. During the latter part of the 
second semester, however, a portion of the time is given to 
laundering and sanitation. These subjects afford an excellent 
opportunity for showing the application of chemistry, physics 
and other sciences, to household work. In the laundry, the ap- 
plication of the principles of chemistry appear in the preparation 
of water, the composition and use of soaps and other detergents, 
bleaches, bluings, starches and other agents. The application of 
science to matters of common experience give a new meaning to 
cleaning the wringer, precautions for preser\4ng colors and safe- 
guarding fabrics, washing with gasoline and other operations. 
Sanitation and ventilation offer a field for the applications of 
physics and again give an entirely new aspect to many otherwise 
vexing problems. The work of the last three years is car- 
ried on in a similar way, in the belief that students will, by 
means of constant lectures, text book work, library readings, 
laboratory practice, written essays and class room discussions, 
gain useful knowledge. During the senior year, practice 
teaching is required. 

Students are expected by these means, to gain a comprehen- 
sive idea of food materials, their varying energy value and the 
food and energy requirements of the body; the changes in 
nutritive value due to cooking and other topics necessary to the 
intelligent management of a family dietar>'. By studying the 
different types of food materials, including their preparation and 
use, the students come to know standards of quality, to under- 
stand market conditions and detect adulteration, and to command 
approved methods of storing and preparing foods; in short, to be 
competent to care for the food of a family. 



The scientific aspect of food must be united in the bonds of 
holy matrimony with a practical knowledge of the cook's art, 
before a man can discourse learnedly of food. — Fothergill. 




Domestic Science Laboratory, University of Minnesota. 
(See page 150.) 




New DoR.MnoKv Bi 11 iunw, Mi^a Tsida's Kni.li>h i..-.i 
(See page 155.) 



., .E, loo;\v.. 



A JAPANESE DEPARTMENT OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 

Miss Ume Tsuda's English Institute in Tokyo,is one of the three 
private institutions for the higher education of women in Japan 
whose graduates receive government Hcenses to teach in sec- 
ondary schools without further examination. The Japanese 
Government is making special efforts to strengthen and stand- 
ardize its school system, which has expanded so rapidly that the 
quality of its teaching force and equipment could not keep pace 
with the number of pupils. In this new rigor of educational re- 
quirement, the recognition of the standing of Miss Tsuda's col- 
legiate institution has great weight. It is the belief of Miss 
Tsuda that an understanding of western ideals and western 
thought would best help the Japanese girls adequately to fill 
their new place in the life of their country. Great stress is laid 
on the study of English literature and language as the key to this 
situation. Closely akin to the study of English in the under- 
standing of western thought, is the study of science, and the 
institute is developing scientific courses as rapidly as laboratory 
equipment and teaching force can be provided. At present, the 
science courses are in special relation to the Domestic Science. 
Department, which has been strengthened by the addition of Miss 
Yoshi Kawashima to the faculty. Miss Kawashima has studied 
for two years at Simmons College, and had previously had train- 
ing in domestic science along Japanese lines. It is hoped that a 
special comparative study of dietaries can be made in connection 
with the two courses in Japanese and in English Domestic Science 
Miss Tsuda herself was educated in America, living here for ten 
years, from the age of seven to seventeen. Later she returned to 
this country and studied for three years at Bryn Mawr, specializ- 
ing in science. The college education of women is just beginning 
in Japan and the high standards which Miss Tsuda's Institute 
sets will have great influence in other institutions taking up the 
work. The accompanying illustration shows the new dormitory 
opened last September for some of the resident students of Miss 
Tsuda's school, and which provides equipment for instruction in 
domestic science. 

"There are three companions with whom you should keep on 
good terms — ^your wife, your stomach and your conscience." 

155 



EXTENSION WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS. 

Martha Van Rensselaer. 

Cornell University. 

The Home Economics movement began not with extension 
work but with academic study in colleges and technical schools. 
As the importance of the movement has been recognized the 
necessity of preparing lectures and demonstrations for the 
general reader and listener has been responded to by many 
colleges. Probably the west has done more of this than the 
east. Extension work has made rapid progress during the 
last few years. The New York State College of Agriculture at 
Cornell University perhaps took the initial step in its Reading 
Course for Farmers' Wives. Other colleges in the meantime have 
organized short courses for women, traveling schools, and have 
to some extent sent out printed matter. It is possible in this 
outline to report only a part of the work that is being done in 
different colleges. 

The University of Illinois has worked out extension plans in 
three distinct lines. At a meeting of the High School Conference 
of the University of Illinois in November, 1907, a domestic science 
section was organized and a committee was appointed to prepare 
a syllabus on domestic science for use in the high schools of 
Illinois. The syllabus which has been prepared suggests an 
orderly development of the subject to meet different conditions. 
The University has this year sent one woman to thirty institutes 
of the state. Other members of the teaching force in the depart- 
ment of household science have spoken at other institutes when- 
ever it could be arranged. Thus the department has had repre- 
sentation at no less than sixty institutes during the past year. 
The fourth annual session of the School for Housekeepers was 
held this year with a registration of loi, the most successful in its 
history. Thirty-one counties were represented. This school con- 
tinues for two weeks. The course of instruction is planned to 
meet the needs of those students who speciaHze in other lines of 
work but desire a knowledge of household science, and, secondly, 
for those students who make a specialty of household science. 
An experimental house at the University is a source of much 
interest. It is open daily from 10 to 12 and from 1:30 to 4:30 

156 



i909[ Extension Work in Home Economics 157 

and shows to visitors the principles of household decoration and 
equipment from an experimental standpoint. Unlike laboratory- 
work, it gives students a real experience in the kitchen and other 
living rooms in a house. 

The University of Wisconsin in its College of Agriculture 
offered February'' 9-13, 1909, a woman's course in home making. 
Lectures and demonstrations on food and cooking were given by 
Miss Clift and Miss Safer of the Wisconsin Farmers' Institute 
staff. Problems of home making were discussed by Mrs. Nellie 
Kedzie Jones of Kalamazoo, Mich. The farm home in its sani- 
tary relations was treated by Miss Day of the Stout Manual 
Training School, Menomonee, Wis. A talk was given on the 
selection of pictures by Mrs. Hutchinson of Madison. Miss 
Abby Marlatt of the Manual Training High School, Providence, 
R. I., gave lectures upon home and school training. Miss Fye 
of Kalamazoo lectured upon practical home nursing and Mrs, 
Blair of the University of Minnesota upon textiles. 

The Ontario Women's Institute Convention was held at 
Guelph, Ontario, in connection with the provincial winter fair. 
There was a large representation from the institutes of the 
province, making a daily audience of from 500 to 600 women. 
Assistance was had from the professors of the college on subjects 
which are of significance in women's household work. There is a 
very close connection between Macdonald Institute located at 
Guelph and the institute work in the province. The women in 
this way receive valuable aid in their study of household subjects. 
The State College of Agriculture at Athens, Georgia, held a 
Conference of Farmers' Wives, January 19-23. The program 
shows valuable assistance from the State College of Agriculture 
and from other schools. Educational subjects were introduced 
to show the correlation between home and school life. There 
were exhibited at this meeting the work of the common schools, 
also labor saving devices and household conveniences and two 
traveling school libraries. 

A Housekeepers' Conference was held in January at the 
University of Missouri in connection with various agricultural 
meetings. Miss Edna Day, Professor of Home Economics in the 
University, has succeeded in interesting the women of the state 
in the study of domestic problems in connection with her depart- 
ment. The program consisted of lectures, discussions and 



158 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

demonstrations upon various household subjects. Miss Van 
Rensselaer of the New York State College of Agriculture gave 
two addresses, one on what the state may do for farmers' wives, 
the other upon household improvements. A unique feature of 
the instruction for the week was the model kitchen. This 
kitchen can be placed wherever desired either at the University 
or it can be used for extension work in the state. The size of the 
room and the places for doors and windows are indicated. A full 
kitchen equipment placed with reference to convenience in do- 
ing the work gives opportunity for study and criticism. 

At the State Agricultural College, Fort Collins, Colorado, 
Miss Mary F. Rausch, head of the domestic science department, 
reports in extension lines that they have held nine short courses 
in various parts of the state, one of which was held at the College 
with a daily attendance of 205 women who rarely missed a ses- 
sion. At these meetings farmers' wives, club women, teachers 
and many young housekeepers are in attendance. In some 
places arrangements are made for the attendance of teachers and 
the pupils in the high schools. Under these conditions the pupils 
are excused for the entire week from regular school work; the 
teachers are in attendance, call the roll, correct the note books, 
grade the work and at the end of the week an examination is 
given to the girls on the week's work. In one western mining 
town women walked in every morning and walked home at night. 
They lived from two to three miles outside the town and the 
ground was covered with snow. At these meetings one dollar is 
charged for the week's work. In order to secure a short course a 
town agrees to pay $100, which means that they may secure 100 
women who will pay one dollar each for instruction. This amount 
is sufficient to pay for groceries, for a helper in the demonstration 
work, for traveling expenses, and the hotel bills of the instructors. 
The hall is furnished by the local authorities and the utensils 
are loaned for the purpose. These short courses have an average 
attendance for the entire week of 200. In several of the towns 
the club women have become interested in the enterprise with a 
view to introducing domestic science in the schools of Colorado. 
At the Maryland Agricultural College under Mr. William L. 
Amoss, director of farmers' institutes, a unique work is being 
done. When the institute work first began in Maryland there 
were few farmers' organizations and not many women were 



1909] Extension Work in Home Economics 159 

associated with the work. Short courses are organized wherever 
convenient in the state and instructors are sent to conduct the 
work in domestic science. The institute car developed from the 
idea of the specia] train and steam-boat, and the desire to intro- 
duce short course work into the rural districts. They bought a 
second-hand, superintendent's private car containing kitchen, 
hot-water heating device and lockers for stores. To this was 
added four upper berths similar to those foimd in a Pullman car. 
A section is used for the dining room. The remainder of the car 
is fitted with chairs, blackboard, case for charts and a stereopti- 
con, for which they make their own acetylene gas. The windows 
are darkened during the day by heavy curtains. This car has 
been run for two seasons very successfully. Two lectures on 
Horticulture are given in the car and two lectures on Domestic 
Science by Miss Anna Barrows, morning and afternoon. Two 
men go out each morning to towns within driving distance to 
conduct the old style institute. Some days they inspect farms, 
orchards, buildings and stock and advise with the owners of the 
farm. They are now organizing com.mittees among the men 
and among the women who will prepare programs and aid in the 
work of the department. 

In Kansas the extension work has been carried on in connec- 
tion with the farmers' institutes. The faculty of the home 
economics department at the Kansas State Agricultural College 
visited during the last year sixteen farmers' institutes, appearing 
twice on the program at each place. The work consists of 
demonstrations, lectures and judging bread and fruit exhibits. 
This work extended over six weeks and emphasis has been laid 
upon bread making, with a bulletin upon the subject and a score 
card with explanations as to its use. At the state farmers' 
institute held at the College during the Christmas holidays there 
was a domestic science department with an enrollment of sixty 
representing almost every section of the state. 

At Ames, Iowa, under the Extension Department of the State 
Agricultural College a large work has been done to develop a 
greater interest in home making. Lectures and demonstrations 
have been given at the farmers' institutes, meetings of women's 
clubs, state and county fairs, teachers' institutes, schools and 
colleges. There have been ten short courses covering one week 
each in ten different localities of the state. Miss Edith G. 



i6o The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Charlton, in charge of the domestic science, gave during seven 
months of the past year 226 lectures and 90 demonstrations, 
explaining the principles of cookery and the effect of heat on 
different food materials. Other lectures and demonstrations 
have been given in sewing. The annual short course was held at 
the State College in December and other short courses have been 
held in ten different counties with an average attendance of about 
125. At all of these meetings there was in addition to the 
regular class membership a daily attendance of from 25 to 75. 

At the New York State College of Agriculture, Cornell 
University, the extension work consists first, of the Reading 
Course for Farmers' Wives; second, the organization of rural 
clubs for study of domestic and cultural subjects; third, the 
short course of three months at the college; fourth, the organiza- 
tion of the Home Makers' Conference, officered by women of the 
state and meeting during Farmers' Week at the college. The 
present membership of the Farmers' Wives' Reading Course is 
11,800. Bulletins are issued during this year upon Sanitation 
accompanied by questions to be answered by members and re- 
turned to the College. A large correspondence in connection 
with this work is held with the members who have the privilege 
of asking for any information concerning the work of women in 
the home and on the farm. The members of the winter course 
in home economics are given twelve lectures each week upon 
domestic science with the privilege of taking work in addition 
in the dairy, poultry, horticultural or general agricultural de- 
partments. The laboratory is open to the students two after- 
noons of the week. During Farmers' Y\'eek in February an 
exhibit of a model kitchen, a laundry equipment, and household 
labor-saving devices was given at the College. There were 
3,000 visitors during the week, many of whom both men and 
women inspected the Home Economics department. Miss Mar- 
garet Mitchell of Drexel Institute gave a course of lectures 
and demonstrations upon the cooking and preparation of cereals. 
A course of lectures upon health was given by specialists in the 
University. Lectures were also given by the faculty of the depart- 
ment upon nutrition, household management and household 
furnishing. 

There will be additional reports in the Journal regarding 
Extension Work. It is desired to have as complete reports from 
the colleges and schools of the country as can be obtained. 



WOMEN'S INSTITUTES IN NORTH CAROLINA. 

The report published in the Bulletin of the North Carolina 
Department of Agriculture, for the women's institutes conducted 
in that State in 1908, is an interesting and encouraging document. 
It is in part as follows : 

"The holding of institutes for the women in the farm homes 
of North Carolina was inaugurated in 1906 and 21 institutes 
were held in 19 counties. During 1907 this work was greatly 
extended, there being held 50 institutes in 38 counties. During 
1908 the number was also largely increased, 68 institutes being 
held in 46 counties. 

"The success of these Women's Institutes has more than 
justified our assumption that an effort to improve rural conditions 
through the co-operation of the women on the farms w^ould be 
as effective as the institutes for men had been. Allowing for the 
general lack of knowledge regarding the purposes or objects of 
these institutes, the interest in them and the appreciation shown 
for the information sought to be imparted have been very 
gratifying, and indicate very plainly that the women on the 
farms of the State are ready to take hold of the work and make it 
a tremendous power for the upbuilding of farm conditions and 
farm life. The best farms are impossible without the best farm 
homes, and a knowledge of modem domestic science is as im- 
portant and useful to the woman who is to develop and m.aintain 
the ideal farm home of the future as is a knowledge of modem 
agricultural science to the man who is to build up a model farm. 

"For the benefit of those not entirely familiar with the scope 
and nature of the work contemplated by these Women's Insti- 
tutes, the following list of subjects is given as a sample of the 
topics discussed : 

The Farm Fruit Garden, the Farm Vegetable Garden, Farm 
Poultry, Farm Butter Making, Beautifying the Home Surround- 
ings, Home Conveniences, Literature for the Farm Home, Home- 
making, Home Nursing, The Nutritive Value of Foods, Cooking 
Meats, Vegetables, etc., Bread Making, Educating the Girls on 
the Farm, and Home Sanitation. 

"The usual practice has been to hold the Women's Institute on 
the same day and at the same place as the institute for men, but 

161 



i62 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

in a separate hall. At least one and usually two separate sessions 
are held, which enable the women to form an organization of their 
own and permit of greater freedom in the discussion of special 
household topics, many of which would neither be instructive nor 
interesting to a mixed or general audience. Two women lectur- 
ers are usually sent out by the State to each meeting, and when a 
joint session is not held with the men, some of the lecturers from 
the men's institute usually assist at the women's meeting in the 
discussion of such subjects as dairying, poultry-raising and 
gardening. The object of these women's meetings, as with those 
for men, has been one of instruction rather than entertainment. 

"The same general plan of organization has been followed with 
the Women's Institutes as with those for men. A county insti- 
tute committee was selected in each county where an institute 
was held, and where there was more than one institute in a 
county a local committee w^as also organized. When these 
county committees become sufficiently interested and active then 
township or neighborhood clubs or institutes, with more frequent 
meetings, are organized. 

"In many places in the State the women are organizing local 
branches of the Women's Branch of the Farmers' Institute. 
Some have bcome firm organizations, strong and self-supporting, 
and others are struggling still for even an existence. Extracts 
from an actual report of work done follow : 

" 'We had an institute meeting in January which was a success, 
I think. We served a luncheon of sandwiches and coflee with 
fruit, given by the grocers. The plates this luncheon was 
served on were given by the merchants ; each person took home 
a plate, cup, saucer, spoon, bottle of Wells & Richardson's 
butter color, a tablet and pencil, woolen scraps from Hargrave & 
Leak skirt factory, and several other little articles. The name 
of the merchant who contributed was on the article which he 
gave. We had a potiltry show in connection with this. Our 
hardware men loaned us chums, stoves and the conveniences 
used in housekeeping ; a system of hot and cold water was shown 
and explained. Pretty prints of "Gilt Edge" butter made by 
the ladies were sold. Different articles were sold or exchanged. 
Poultry was exhibited and quite a number sold. We had a good 
meeting'." 



1909] Women's Institutes in North Carolina 163 

An interesting feature of the report is the statement regarding 
demonstration railway cars, one of which was used for domestic 
science instruction exclusively. 

"The special trains are usually run so as to devote at most a 
few hours at a place, from three to ten stops being made each 
day. In this way much spectacular effect is obtained.but facilities 
and opportunities for teaching are sacrificed. While one whole 
day is all too little if much real instruction is to be given, there is 
unquestionably much to be gained in effective work by the 
facihties which one or two cars offer for carrying materials, ap- 
paratus and implements for demonstrations. 

"During the past institute season itwas determined to use two 
cars, one for domestic science demonstrations and the other for 
agricultural implements, seeds, spraying, and dairy apparatus, 
etc., for demonstrations at the men's meetings. A passenger 
coach from one end of which two seats v/ere rem-oved was fitted 
up as a modem kitchen with labor saving utensils and devices. 
In this kitchen was an oil stove, oven, ice box, kitchen cabinet, 
fireless cooker, sink and necessary utensils. The remaining seats 
of the car were utilized for seating those attending the demon- 
strations, and when the attendance was not too large the Wo- 
man's Institute was held in this car. It is believed that this is 
probably the first domestic science car ever run, but it clearly 
demonstrated its utility in rendering mxOre effective the work of 
the women's institutes by offering facilities for actual demon- 
strations of many of the things taught. These cars were furnished 
and hauled free of charge by the Southern Railway Company, 
through the courtesy of the Land and Industrial Department of 
the company. 

"These cars were used at thirty institutes, separate meetings 
for the men and women being held in the forenoon and for a part 
of the afternoon and joint meetings for the remainder of the after- 
noon and at night. The results obtained were more than satis- 
factory, especially with the domestic science car, and it is felt 
that this use of the car for the purpose of adding better facilities 
for teaching is the proper use of the special institute car or train 
rather than the spectacular effect, which has apparently been the 
chief aim and must result from the short tim.e usually spent at 
each stopping place with the special institute train." 



TRAVELING COOKING SCHOOLS FOR RURAL REGIONS, 

IN GERMANY. 
M. Salm. 

A skillful housewife is the first requisite for the comfort and 
success of every household, but the farm housewife is an especially- 
important factor in the family life since her activities are not 
confined to the house alone but extend to the dairy and other 
farm enterprises. 

The need for the satisfactory training of farm housewives led 
in Germany to the establishment of rural schools of home eco- 
nomics where farmers' daughters can receive an education 
w^hich -will fit them for their work as farmers' wives. Un- 
doubtedly such schools have great importance as is shown by 
the many well trained housewives w^ho have received instruction 
in them. However, it is equally true that they do not meet the 
needs of all the agricultural population. The bulk of the rural 
population in Germany are small farmers. In such homes the 
help of the daughters is needed, and even if this were not the 
case, it is seldom possible to provide the money required for 
tuition and other school expenses. Furthermore, many farmers 
feel that having attended such schools, the daughters would not 
be content to return to the simple conditions of their home 
farms. For this reason many German farmers are not very 
friendly to the regular type of rural schools of home economics. 
Nevertheless, good training is undoubtedly essential for all 
farmers' wives, for those in the humbler homes as well as for those 
on the prosperous farms. As a solution of the difficulty traveling 
schools were considered. Baden was the leader in this move- 
ment. For many years this province has provided for the rural 
regions numerous courses in cookery suited to local conditions and 
in sewing, bookkeeping, etc., which have been very well attended 
and popular. The Dill district of the province of Hesse-Nassau 
has also established traveling schools of cookery which are 
managed by trained teachers. These schools very soon become 
popular in rural regions and the movement is growing rapidly. 

In the autumn of 190 7, the district of Coin, under the auspices 
of the district authorities, established the first traveling school 
of home economics. The teachers employed are well trained, and 

164 



1909] Traveling Cooking Schools in Germany 165 

give instruction in selected villages. Each teacher is required to 
give six courses a year, the courses being of six weeks' duration. 
Where necessary the township or village pays all or part of the 
expense of pupils who could not otherwise afford to attend the 
school. In order that the instruction may be as intensive as 
possible the number of pupils in a group is limited to twenty- 
four. These traveling schools soon become popular and it is 
proposed to establish them in other regions of the Rhine province. 

Bavaria has also begun the establishment of traveling cooking 
schools. The Agricultural Section of the Bavarian Farmers' 
Association in Regensburg of which Dr. Heim is a leading spirit, 
decided in the autumn of 1907, to establish such schools and set 
aside money for the purpose. Two nuns \\'ell trained in the 
theory and practice of the subject were selected for the work and 
the courses cover four or five months in the winter. Since the 
Farmers' Association is responsible for the teachers and for the 
bulk of the other expense the cost of instruction to the pupils is 
very small. The farmers' daughters not only of the locality 
selected but also of the neighboring country attend, and so a 
fairly large region comes under the influence of this educational 
movement. 

From time to time th-s number of these traveling schools has 
been increased so that they are accessible to the majority of the 
country villages in the province. The plan provides that courses 
be given in a stated locality every six or seven years. The 
village selected for such school work usually provides a school 
room free of cost. 

In lower Franconia and in the Palatinate the traveling school 
movement has also begun. The attendance was large at the 
opening of the first school of this sort in Hundsfeld in Lower 
Franconia and met with the approval of both the scholars and the 
parents. 

The cost of establishing and maintaining a traveling school 
of this sort is estimated as follows : 

Initial Expenditure 

2 portable cook stoves at .$20 each S40.00 

2 sets of cooking dishes, etc 18. 00 

2 large folding tables at S7 each 14.00 

Plates, knives, forks and other table furnishings for 25 persons ... 10 00 

Charts and other illustrative material 8.00 

Books, etc., for teachers 5.00 

Sum total $95.00 



i66 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Current Expenses 
Teacher's salary per term $25.00 

Total Expenditure Per Term 

Teacher's salary $25.00 

Estimated wear and tear of material and interest on investment . . 1 1.90 

Sum total $36.90 

The great advantage of the traveling school is that the students 
are able at once to put into practice in their homes whatever 
they have learned in school. Another advantage is that the 
teacher can visit the pupils' homes and see that they really under- 
stand what they have been taught. It is to be hoped that these 
traveling schools of home economics may do much for training 
housewives in rural regions and so contributing to produce 
satisfactory rural homes which are of the utmost importance to 
the State. Translated from Deutsche Landwirtschaftliche Presse 
35 {1908), No. 25. pp. 275, 276. 



Training According to the writer in a recent number of "The II- 

Professional lustra ted London News" professional men cooks have 

Cooks. held better positions than women cooks because as a 

whole they have had superior advantages as regards training. Some of the 
statements made regarding the training of professional cooks are of interest 
in a consideration of the general question of training. 

"What Miss Nightingale did for nursing — the discovery- of the way to 
enlist in its duties educated and cultivated women — is what is needed to 
elevate cooking as women's work. It needs brains, powers of organiza- 
tion, memory, acute senses, to be a first-rate cook. . . In old days, the 
good family servants would take and train their youthful successors; and 
girls, in their earlv years at service, were content to take a small wage in 
consideration of the fact that they were, so to speak, apprenticed to learn 
their work. Now there are no elderly servants long settled in families, as 
a rule, to take an interest in the youthful new-comers into the field, and the 
ignorant little damsels, far from realizing that they have all to learn, 
expect to receive at once t'ne wages of a competent worker. It is not so 
with boys who determine to be cooks: They are properly apprenticed to 
a chef to be taught, and are not paid at all, or very little, till they have 
learned their business. We require someone with t'ne influence of a Miss 
Nightingale to impress on all would-be cooks the lesson about it that she 
so strongly inculcated about nursing — the absolute need of training. 
'There is no such thing as amateur art,' she wrote, 'and there is no such 
thing as amateur nursing. Three-fourths of the whole mischief in wo- 
men's lives arises from their excepting themselves from the rule of train- 
ing considered needful for men.' Would that this could be realized about 
cooker>'." 



A CAMPAIGN FOR HOME MAKING. 

EuPHEMiA Clark. 

New York City. 

Home making for wage-earners' families in congested city 
districts is one of the most difficult problems in modem social 
life. First, the standards and knowledge among women re- 
sponsible for the homes are deficient; second, the conditions of 
home making are extremely hard. 

A large mumber of women marry and set up housekeeping at 
about the age of twenty, after, on the average, five years' work in 
shop or factory. Work for them began as soon as the compul- 
sory term of education was ended, so that, even if the home life 
was exem^plary, opportunity to gain training from it was small. 
Often the standard is already lowered by the struggle against the 
difficult conditions of tenement life. Moreover, the mind has not 
been trained enough to profit by books and by experience. 
Thousands, in addition, have been transplanted in adult life, 
from peasant life in Europe, to city life in an English speaking 
country. They are especially likely to reap the harm and dis- 
comfort of city life and miss its benefits. If some have been for a 
period at domestic service, that advantage is partly nulhfied by 
the difference in their own and their mistress' standard of ex- 
penditure. Few of them are equipped with proper knowledge 
of food, hygiene, children, clothing, sanitation, and other factors 
in the home situation. 

For them, moreover, the conditions of living are the very 
hardest. Wages are small, proportional expenditure for rent is 
great, available tenements have little space or privacy, practically 
no opportunity for quiet. Vvlth congestion of population, 
chances of healthful play are reduced, chances of diseases and 
bad habits are multiplied. The soil, wear and tear of clothing, 
is increased. Food, clothing and furnishings offered for sale are 
pretentious and inferior. 

Could there be a more fruitful field for the professional teachers 
of home making than this? Let no one think the task hopeless; 
there are many proofs to the contrary. 

The first requisite for the campaign is a good leader and 
administrator. She should have a thorough technical training, 

167 



i68 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

an experience of life in the neighborhood where she expects to 
work, a sense of the social problems involved, a pleasing person- 
ality and abundant vitality. 

The second requisite is a large number of responsible helpers 
with technical training. The emphasis is strong here on num- 
bers. Standards of living are, to some extent, a community 
creation. vStyles in housekeeping and child training can be set. 
They would be of powerful influence. But suppose the field of 
endeavor to be a metropolitan school district of approximately 
eighteen thousand children, of which a single block may contain 
fifteen hundred people. It will be conceded that the strongest 
personality reinforced with the best of training will still need help 
to make a marked effect on such a community. 

It is already clear how beginnings could be made for this 
campaign. In the first place, there is a mass of material 
worked out by the trainings chools and available for teaching. 
It has to do with the values, chemistry, manufacture, prepara- 
tion, digestion of food; with physical and mental welfare of 
children, with hygiene and recreation; with choice, planning, 
repairing, remodeling of clothes and furnishings. It is good 
material. It would be made use of in a thousand unconven- 
tional ways — in any way that opportunity seemed to suggest — 
perhaps seldom by formal class methods. Much information of 
food values must be given out in form as dogmatic as the "Don't 
spit" cards of the tuberculosis fighters. Sometimes the teachers 
will find themselves instructed in details of inexpensive manage- 
ment; then they can start a bureau of information among the 
neighbors. Many schemes of co-operation, e.g. in buying sheet- 
ing at wholesale, or owning a machine in common, might be suc- 
cessful under management. Some groups of women would enjoy 
and profit by a child study hour suitably conducted. In every- 
thing the work must be practically adapted to particular circum- 
stances. 

Besides the many opportunities for teaching and managing, 
there would come openings useful for experiment and investiga- 
tion. For instance, a dozen individuals among the neighbors 
have tuberculosis but cannot afford the milk and egg diet. Is 
there any cheaper substitute? What are the best toys that can 
be made at a marketable price? Are ready-made children's 
clothes a good investment? How much loss is incurred by 



1909] A Campaign for Home Making 169 

purchasing food in small quantities ? What are the variations in 
standard of living for a given per capita income? Could blocks 
A and B be remodeled into good Hving quarters and yield 4% on 
the investment? These are suggestions only of the dozens of 
questions which come up to be answered. 

Beyond the teaching and investigation would come the use of 
records and the statement, for the use of other "social workers," 
of first hand facts accumulated. Is there a body interested in 
housing? Pass on to them the facts of convenient and incon- 
venient arrangement, about rise in rents, why neighbors live just 
where they do, etc., etc. Is there a health committee? Let 
them know the attitude of the neighbors on available dispensary 
and hospital service. Is it adequate ? On what medical matters 
is the neighborhood most ignorant ? How do the neighbors fear 
in contact with the police, the courts, the street cleaners, the 
Board of Health, the PubUc Schools? Pass on comment and 
suggestion where it will tell most. Make suggestions from ex- 
perience to people interested in recreation and amusement. It 
has all of it direct bearing on home life. 

For all of this work two things are needed; large personal 
acquaintance in the neighborhood and connection with better- 
ment agencies. Both these factors point to the social settlement 
as the best starting point from which the leader can work. She 
would gain indispensable help through a permanent residence 
there, and residence for some months, before attempting to put 
her helpers to work. One settlement the writer has in mind 
could introduce this leader to several hundred famihes. For 
many of them she could be furnished with history extending over 
several years. Besides this wealth of acquaintance, she could 
have the use of various clubs and classes in the house, of a visiting 
nurse, an able health committee, a committee on education which 
had estabhshed cordial relations with the district schools, an art 
and industrial committee, a group of residents more or less 
intimately connected with the leading welfare committees of the 
city. Her object and theirs would be the same — better neighbor- 
hood life. 

It would be the province of the leader to guide her assis- 
tants, and to pass on to them as much as possible of her 
experience. She would have to demand from them a certain 
amount of technical training. This has been something of 



i^o The Journal of Home Economics [April 

difficulty hitherto. Settlements can rarely afford to pay a large 
force of trained workers for one special purpose. Private en- 
dowment for the large sums required is difficult to secure, espe- 
cially, a permanent annual income. 

The most attractive solution seems to be the co-operation of 
training schools for teachers of home making subjects with the 
settlement, through a plan by which last year students under the 
trained leader, might be put into the field, and gain credit for 
college work. Such last year students, who have had consider- 
able training in home economics, would be sufficiently advanced 
to be of real use, and on the other hand, would themselves profit 
by trying out their learning on the hard problems of tenement 
life. The plan is attractive because it promises to get work well 
done, and at the same time, train an ever increasing number in 
the social application of their work. The economic factors in 
domestic science would come to be more practically dealt with. 
Students who had elected the social work would be especially 
valuable in public schools. The fact that students so trained 
were available would tend to extend the scope of public school 
work, to the extent perhaps, of whole special courses in indus- 
trial schools. Properly administered, the course would create a 
kind of useful scholarship which any university might be proud to 
honor with credits. 

It should be mentioned that the writer has by no means over- 
looked in this proposal, the various useful experiments already 
undertaken. In New York City, for instance, practically all 
settlements have classes in cooking. In one of them these are 
taught by practice pupils from a training school. Kitchen 
gardens flourish in many places. Model flats are kept in dif- 
ferent parts of the city, one of the charity organizations has a 
trained advisor who goes about in the homes of its clientele, 
school lunches are s erved in two public schools. 

These and others, are valuable and suggestive enterprises, but 
so far as the writer knows, none has reached the magnitude of a 
neighborhood campaign. It is believed that this could be done 
only by such a leader as has been described, directing her force 
of trained assistants against the difficulties of her neighborhood, 
and creating there a public understanding of needs and possibili- 
ties of good home making. 



DIET IN THE PHIUPPINES. 

Dr. C. F. Lan'gworthy. 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Though popular statements are often made regarding diet in 
the Orient the total amotmt of information on this subject which 
is based on actual dietary investigations is limited. It is fre- 
quently stated that the Oriental races live almost exclusively 
upon rice and that the total amount of food eaten is small in 
comparison with that of western races. As shown by the work of 
Oshima^ and other investigators and by the writings of many 
who are familiar with the subject, rice fills the same place in 
Oriental dietetics as wheat flour, potatoes and other starchy 
foods do elsewhere. In Japan where domestic animals are few 
in number, fish and other sea foods are important articles of diet, 
while soy bean products, which supply nitrogen in considerable 
quantities, are part of almost every meal. These articles and a 
wide variety of vegetables, fruits and other foods make up a 
comparatively varied diet. 

In China and some other eastern countries domestic animals 
are much more common than in Japan and make up a larger 
proportion of the total food supply. In most of these regions soy 
bean cheese or bean curd and other soy bean products are im- 
portant, as are also sea foods, vegetables and fruits. It is worthy 
of note that milk is almost unknown as a food to the native popu- 
lation of China and Japan and some other eastern countries. 

In considering the results of dietary studies it is also important 
to make comparisons on the basis of tmiform body weight. This 
is particularly important in considering investigations in eastern 
coimtries as records show that not infrequently average weights 
are lower than is the case in the United States. As Oshima points 
out, some of the results of Japanese studies when considered on 
such a basis are in closer accord with American figures than is the 
case when this precaution is not observed. 

Through the courtesy of one of the U. S. Government officials 
in Manila some data have been recently procured regarding the 
food of laboring men in the Philippines. The employer is ex- 
pected to furnish rations in addition to wages, the regular ration 

•U. S. Dept. Agr., Office of Experiment Stations Bui. 159. 

171 



172 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

allowance for a Filipino being 1.25 pounds of raw rice and about 
. 15 pound of raw fish per day. In addition to this some fruit for in- 
stance bananas will also be eaten and perhaps other food, but this 
part of the diet is not supplied by the employer. As a rule the 
native laborers eat two meals a day, the first about eleven o'clock 
in the morning and the second at night. The average weight of 
the Filipino working man is no to 120 pounds, the latter figure 
being considered a fair average. 

It is generally conceded that the Filipino laborers work 
steadily and well. 

On the assumption that .5 pound banana would be eaten in 
addition to the rice and fish mentioned above, the ration would 
supply .154 pound or 70 grams protein, and 2,340 calories per day 
for a man weighing 120 pounds. It is customary to compare 
dietaries on a uniform basis of 150 pounds body weight. On 
this basis the Filipino ration w^ould supply 88 grams protein and 
2,925 calories per day, values which are lower than those called 
for by the suggested American dietary standards for a man at 
moderate work, namely, 100 grams protein and 3,500 calories. 

The reports of the Commissary General of the U. vS. Army 
for the last ten years have contained much information regarding 
Filipino food conditions, rations for native soldiers, and other 
similar topics. The ration allowance^ for native soldiers when 
the Islands were under Spanish rule was rice .95 litre, jerked beef, 
.1 kilogram, vinegar .01 litre, lard .02 kilogram, "Mongos 
(mungo beans) .14 litre, coffee .01 kilogram, sugar .02 kilogram. 
The ration was varied by substituting .35 kilogram of fresh meat 
or . 1 5 kilogram of fresh or dry fish for jerked beef. 

Following the usual method of calculation and using standard 
figures for the composition of the food, this ration would furnish 
81 grams protein and 2,406 calories of energy. If it be assumed 
that the average Filipino soldier weighs 120 pounds, the above 
values would be equivalent to 10 1 grams protein and 3,007 
calories for a man weighing 150 pounds. 

It is a general custom in deciding upon a ration under condi- 
tions similar to those in the Philippines to select foods which in 
kind and quantity conform to the ordinary dietary habits and 
which will supply the necessities rather than the luxuries. 
Assuming that this was true of this ration, the above figures 

'Annual Report Acting Commissary General of Subsistence, igoo, pp. j8, 29. 



1909] Diet in the Philippines 173 

would indicate that the ordinary FiHpino is well nourished and 
that in proportion to his size his diet agrees rather closely with the 
commonly accepted dietary standards. 

The Government official who supplied the data regarding 
Philippine laborers states that well-to-do Filipinos are hearty 
eaters and fond of meat, the quantities consumed at a meal 
being very large and that fat pork is a favorite dish. The 
numerous articles on Philippine dishes and Philippine cookery 
which have appeared since the Islands came into the possession of 
the United States bear out the statements regarding their fond- 
ness for meat and for foods rich in fat. This liking for fat food 
which is observed in the Philippines and which has been noted as 
well in discussions of diet in Cuba, Porto Rico, and other tropical 
and semi-tropical countries is interesting in itself, and also is 
another instance of popular misconceptions regarding diet, for 
the statement is frequently made that fat is not relished in the 
Tropics whereas the reverse seems to be the case. 



St. Lawrence University, Canton, X. Y., has a School of Domestic 
Science in connection with the branch State Agricultural College estab- 
lished there by a recent action of the New York State Legislature. This is 
the first year of the Domestic Science course and there were thirty registra- 
tions of students who wish to teach Domestic Science. The original plan 
of the course was that it should be for home makers and the result in 
registration indicates that different plans will need to be made. 



Home Economics Workers in home economics will be interested in the 
Exhibitions. Women of All Nations Exhibition at Olympia, Septem- 

ber ist to the 28th, 1909. The Domestic Economy 
Section is being arranged and organized by The Epicure. It is to contain 
the following sub-sections : (a) Exhibits of Domestic Economy Schools 
Illustrating Methods of Training in Domestic Subjects; (b) Demonstra- 
tions in Cookery; (c) Demonstrations in Sweet-making with Exhibits; 
(d) Inventions of Women tending to Promote Domestic Economy; (e) 
Literature; (f) Commercial Exhibits: Foods, Beverages, Cooking and 
Laundry- Apparatus, Culinary Utensils and AppUances, etc. Applica- 
tions for space should be made to the editor of The Epicure, 95 Wigmore 
Street, London, W., England. 

Last summer an Exhibition of Home Work of Women was held at 
Frankfort-on-Main. The guide which was published would be of interest 
to persons concerned with the management of such exhibitions (Fxihrer 
durch die Heimarbeit-Ausstellung, Frankfurt a. Main, 1908. Im Auftrag 
des Ausstellungs-Vorstandes bearbeitet von Eamst Schreiner. Kornsand 
& Co., publishers, Frankfurt a. Main). 



FOOD OF MEXICAN LABORERS IN MEXICO AND THE 

UNITED STATES. 
In an article entitled "Mexican Labor in the United States" by 
Victor S. Clark, Ph.D.,^ considerable information is given regard- 
ing home life and standards of living food and diet of Mexican 
laborers. The general opinion expressed is that the Mexicans 
have a better, more generous, and more varied diet in the United 
States than in Mexico. 

The following is quoted as the weekly ration of a family con- 
sisting of a man, wife, and children too young to work, living on a 
plantation in the extreme southern portion of Mexico where 
wages are relatively high and labor is scarce ; Dried beans, 3.3 lb. 
rice 2.2, coffee 1.3, brown sugar 2.2, meat 6.6 lb., lard K bottle. 
After some correspondence on the subject it seems fair to assume 
that a half bottle of lard represents a pound. Assuming that this 
is the case, that the two children in the family were infants or very 
young and that accordingly they may be left out of account in the 
computations, the protein and energy furnished by the ration has 
been calculated in the usual way with the aid of average figures 
for the composition of the foods. The results show that the 
ration would furnish on the per man per day basis 77 grams pro- 
tein and 1,671 calories of energy. 

Such calculations as the above are of necessity lacking in ac- 
curacy, a fact which should always be borne in mind in making 
use of them. The values obtained, however, are of interest and 
without doubt give a fairly good idea of the diet. From general 
information regarding the Mexican diet collected from other 
sources it seems almost certain that chiH peppers, tuna or 
other cactus fruits, and presumably some other similar foods 
were eaten in addition to the articles enumerated. If this was 
the case, the nutritive value of the diet would of course be corres- 
pondingly increased. The body weight of the man and his wife 
was not given and so it is not possible to recalculate the values 
given above to the basis of 1 50 pounds body weight. 

It is noticeable according to Doctor Clark that Mexicans in the 
United States are very fond of meat though they have not been 
accustomed to much of it in their own country. One contractor 



»U. S. Dept. Com. and Labor, Bur. Labor Bui. 78, PP. 466-5»a- 



1909] Food of Mexican Laborers in Mexico 175 

said of his laborers from Old Mexico: "They gorge themselves 
on meat." 

Doctor Clark's report gives much information regarding the 
food habits and diet of Mexican laborers in the United States, 
their general living conditions, and related topics. In this con- 
nection it is of interest to recall dietary studies of Mexican 
laborers reported several years ago from the New Mexico College 
of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts by Professor Arthur Goss.^ 
Professor Goss carried on three dietary studies of Mexican 
families in poor circumstances and one of a family in moderate cir- 
cumstances, all living in Los Cruces, New Mexico, or in the 
neighboring country. In connection with this work he analyzed 
a number of typical food products and gives a considerable 
amount of accurate information regarding methods of preparing 
food, dietary habits, and general food conditions. 

Considering the average resxilts obtained with the four families, 
the diet supplied 94 grams protein and 3,550 calories of energy 
per man per day, at an average cost of 7 cents. The diet of these 
families was very simple, consisting principally of frijoles, or 
native beans, chili peppers, com, wheat flour, and lard, with 
some vegetables, and in every case except one a little meat. 

The following statements are made regarding the preparation 
of the food: 

"In the houses of the poorer class the cooking is done in an 
open fireplace, usually in one comer of the room. 

"The 'tortillas,' or cakes made of flour or ground com, are one 
of the most generally and extensively used foods. When the 
tortillas are made from com, the kernels are first boiled with 
lime, which softens them. The skin is then usually though not 
always removed, and the grain is ground in a crude stone grinding 
apparatus or 'metate,' consisting of a concave slab of stone and a 
smaller convex piece, which is held in the hands and which 
ser\'es as a pestle. The grinding is not rotary, however, as in an 
ordinary mortar, but up and down, toward and from the body. 
The com is usually a small blue kind, rather soft, which seems to 
contain somewhat more than the average amount of fat. After 
the com has been ground into a mush on the metate it is patted 
out in the hands into the tortillas. Com tortillas are never 



»U. S. Dept. Agr., Office of Experiment Stations Bui. 40 — Dietary Studies in New 
Mexico in 1893. U. S. Dept. Agr., Office of Experiment Stations Bui. 54 — Nutrition In- 
vestigations in New Mexico in 1897. 



176 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

rolled, as is the case with those made from flour. If flour is used, 
it is mixed into a dough with water and the cake rolled out from 
it. The flour used is not ground in the metate, but in the 
ordinary flouring mills. It is usually of poor quality, coarse and 
dark colored. After being worked into the proper form, the 
tortilla is baked on a flat piece of iron, supported directly over 
the fire in the open fireplace, the iron being first greased with 
lard. As soon as it is done on one side the tortilla is turned by 
pressing the moistened fingers against the upper side of it, thus 
causing it to adhere to the fingers, whereupon it is deftly turned 
and the opposite side is browned. 

"The frijoles or beans are cooked in small homemade earthen- 
ware pots, and are almost invariably combined with a very 
liberal proportion of chili and also considerable lard. 

"The chili is cooked alone, and also with various other articles 
of food. It is prepared by first removing the stems and seeds of 
the pods, which constitute somewhat more than half of the total 
weight, after which it is sometimes ground in the metate, but is 
usually soaked in water and the inner or edible portion separated 
from the outer skin by squeezing in the hands. Owing to the- 
extremely strong irritating eftect on the hands, this operation 
cannot be performed by an amateur. The Mexican women, how- 
ever, become so accustomed to it that it seems to have no effect 
on them. 

"Among the poor families the meals are served on the floor in 
the middle of the room, the family sitting on the ground around 
the food and eating without knives, forks, or plates. 

"The houses of the poor people are usually supplied with skins 
of sheep and other animals, which serve both as chairs and beds 
for the children. When grinding corn and other articles in the 
metate and doing other kinds of housework, the women usually 
sit on the floor on these skins." — C. F. L. 



The time indeed is at hand when systematic lectures on food 
will be a part of medical education, when the value of feeding in 
disease is admitted to be as important as the administration of 
medicines. — Fothergill. 

Myriads of our fellow-creatures have perished, because those 
around them did not know how to feed them. — Fothergill. 



THE EFFECT OF COOKING ON CELLULOSE. 

Since the illustration from Konig on the "Effect of Cooking on 
Potato," shown in Hutchinson's "Food and Dietetics," page 397, 
continues to reappear in new text books, it seems time that this 
authority should be challenged in print. 

Some five years ago the writer found on examining a cooked 
potato, both boiled and baked, that no breaking of the cell walls 
had taken place. The middle lamella which holds the cells to- 
gether had dissolved and the cells separated from each other. 
Every year since we have had classes try the experiment but 
have never yet found the cell walls to break. If, however, 
saliva is added to these unbroken cells, the starch filling them is 
very quickly digested, as shown by the fact that they no longer 
give the blue color with iodine, proving that the breaking of the 
cell wall is not at all essential for ease of digestion. While no 
broken potato cell walls have been found in the writer's ex- 
perience, according to the results of Professor Gilmore of Cornell 
in results published in Farmers' Bulletin No. 244, (1906), 
the following statement is made : 

"In cooking, mealiness is the most important consideration in 
estimating quality. In general, mealiness follows upon the 
presence of sufficient starch in the cell to rupture its walls when 
boiled in water. The grains of potato starch expand and coalesce 
when boiled in water, and if the walls are sufficiently full of these 
bodies the boiling will cause the cellular structure to be broken 
down, and a degree of mealiness is the result. When the requisite 
amount of starch is not present in the cell its walls are not broken 
down in cooking; hence the tuber retains its form or is soggy." 

It would seem, then, that under some circumstances Konig is 
right, but by no means always. The potatoes examined have not 
seemed to lack particularly in mealiness. — Edna D. Day. 



It is irritating, nay more, a deeply saddening problem for a 
wise dyspeptic to ponder, the superabundance in this little 
world of ours of things cookable, and the extreme rarity of cooks. 
— Maarten Maartens. 



177 



WOMEN'S CLUBS AND THE INTRODUCTION OF 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE INTO SCHOOLS 

Maurice LeBosquet 

American School of Home Economics, Chicago 

It is always interesting to trace the beginning of things, and 
oftentimes in investigating the beginnings of domestic science 
in the pubUc schools, it is found that the local women's club has 
been instrumental in introducing the subject. Once started the 
work usually grows by reason of its very apparent value. 

The following letter from Miss Emma A. Winslow, the teacher, 
tells how domestic science was introduced into the high school of 
Rutland, Vermont. The method and results are typical. 

"A year ago the Women's Club offered to give the equipment 
for a cooking school kitchen and furnish the room for one year if 
the Board of Education would furnish a teacher and pay the 
running expenses. Although little enthusiasm was shown by 
the school officials, they decided finally to accept the offer. 

"Two small adjoining rooms in the building where the rooms 
of the Women's Club were located, were rented and furnished to 
accommodate a class of twelve girls. The course was offered as 
an elective to members of the first year class in the high school 
and about fifty girls availed themselves of the opportunity. 
Two of the four classes have met on Saturday, the others meeting 
on school days. 

"There has been increasing interest and enthusiasm throughout 
the year. At their June meeting, the School Board voted 
practically unanimously to continue domestic science as a part 
of the regular program and to fit up a room in the high school 
building for a kitchen. All but two of the ninth grade girls have 
signified their intention of taking cooking next year, and forty 
of this year's class wish to take up the second year's work. 
Much interest in the work has been shown throughout the state. 

"The total cost to the Women's Club for starting the work has 
been about $i 50.00, most of which has been raised by lectures and 
entertainments. The room rent has been the largest item. The 
total cost of the equipment was $85.70. It is simple, but pro- 
vides as much for each girl as is absolutely needed and as much as 
each would have in her own home. 

178 



1909] Women's Clubs and Introdticiion of Domestic Scien-ce 179 

"As the kitchen was only an experiment, we did not want to 
burden ourselves with too much expense. We found two long 
counters which had formerly been used in a music store and 
secured them for seven dollars. One contained four long shallow 
drawers and the other two. Each drawer was fitted up to 
accommodate two pupils and a class of twelve thus provided for. 
We had some difficulty in placing the counters in the room 
(9x12 ft.), and finally placed them against two walls. The gas 
connections were simplified in this way, but it m.ade it somewhat 
hard to keep watch of the girls when at work. 

"We also found at the second-hand store a large cupboard with 
glass doors which we bought for fiv-e dollars and used to hold the 
serving dishes and the extra cooking utensils. Then we bought 
for three dollars and a half a chest of drawers which the girls used 
to hold their aprons. This constituted our furniture, together 
with a dining table loaned to us and a small table (also loaned) 
which I used for a supply table. 

"We painted the counters white and covered the tops with 
'Sanitas' which I have found very satisfactory as it does not 
crack or peal. The cupboards were also painted white, and with 
dainty muslin curtains at the windows, we had a very attractive 
kitchen. 

"Six gas hot-plates were placed on the counters and one large 
gas range provided. The Gas Company gave us free gas during 
the year. The sink was placed in the room by the owner and so 
made us no expense. 

"The counters, supply cupboard and small table filled one 
room. The other one contained the sink, large stove and large 
table and chairs in which the girls sat while I was outlining the 
lesson. 

"I had more individual equipment than I should have had if 
the drawers in the desk had not been so roomy. Each girl had 
a white bowl, two measuring cups, a case knife, fork, two table- 
spoons and two teaspoons. Each drawer also contained a rolling- 
pin, wooden spoon, egg beater and utensil plate to be used in 
common by the two girls. The double boilers, sauce pans, 
baking tins, etc., I kept in the cupboard and also all the serving 
dishes. The total cost of the dishes was about twenty-five 
dollars. In detail the cost of the equipment was as follows : 



i8o 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[April 



COST OF EQUIPMENT, KITCHEN LABORATORY, HIGH SCHOOL, 
CUbl ui ii-yuix- r'utlaND, VERMONT. 

Furnished by Rutland Women's Club. 

1 Counter with four drawers (work table for 8 girls) $4.00 

1 Counter with two drawers (work table for 4 girls) ^o" 

1 Cupboard, glass doors above, (for supphes) o-^" 

1 Desk, with four drawers, (for aprons) ^ "" 

Carpenter's work repairing counters, etc -^ ' ^ 



Painter's bill, painting furniture white "■"" 

oy^ yds. "Sanitas" to cover counters (^tc i-^o 

8 yd. dotted muslin for sash curtains 



1.20 



1 Gas Range S17.50; 4 Hot Plates, S5.00; Piping, $8.00 30.50 



2.94 



Crash for towels and dish cloths 94 «fi 

Set of cooking utensils for 12 ^^ °° 



Total cost 



$85.70 



Details of Cooking Utensils for Class of Twelve. 



Individual (kept in desks) 

2 doz. tablespoons @ 40c 

2 " teaspoons @ 25c 

1 " knives and forks @ 75c . 
6 wooden cake spoons @ .08 . , . 

2 do7,. measuring cups (3, .05 . . . 

6 biscuit cutters @ .05 

6 salt dishes @ .03 

6 small strainers @ .05 

6 small platters @ .05 

6 large platters (utensil plates) 

@.10 

12 white bowls (ai .05 

3 rolling pins ^.15 

3 Dover egg beaters @ .10 

Utensils (kept in cupboard) 
Upper shelf. 

12 plates @ .10 

6 oatmeal dishes (g; .10 

12 cups and saucers @ .10 

6 tumblers @ .10 

1 large pitcher @ .10 

6 pop over cups @ .05 

3 large yellow bowls @ .15 . . . . 
1 lemon squeezer (^ .10 

1 large strainer @ .10 

4 paring knives @ .10 

2 flat egg beaters @ .05 

1 potato masher @ .10 

1 ricer @ .10 

1 apple corer 

1 can opener 

1 butter cup and brush 

1 nutmeg grater 



Bottom of upper cupboard 

6 small agate sauce pans @ . 1 6 . 

6 larger @ .20. 

6 small double boilers @ .55 . . 

1 large " " 

2 flour dredges @ .10 



$.80 
.50 

1.50 
.48 

1.20 
.30 
.18 
30 
.30 

.60 
.60 
.45 
.30 



1.20 
.60 

1.20 
.60 
.10 
.30 
.45 
.10 
.10 
.40 
.10 
.10 
.10 
.10 
.10 
.10 
.05 



.96 

1.20 

3.30 

.85 

.20 



Upper shelf in lower part of cupboard 

2 flour cans® .10 

1 sugar can ; " j- ' " 

6 agate wash basins (for disn 

pans) @ .\0 • 

6 agate pans (for rinsing pans) 
@ .10 

Lower cupboard 

1 dripping pan 

1 meat rack 

3 layer cake tins © .06 

2 square " " @ .10 

3 bread tins (© .10 

3 pie " @ .06 

2 sheets cup cake tins @ .15 ... 

1 large frying pan 

3 small " ■' @ 05^ 

2 large agate saucepans @ .40 . 

1 " " kettle 

1 steamer 

1 colander 

1 1-qt. baking dish 

1 large jelly mould 

1 cookie sheet 

1 chopping bowl 

1 " knife 

1 broiler 

2 pan cake turners @ .05 



Miscellaneous 

2 "Magic" covers @ .50. 

1 teakettle 

1 scale 

1 sink strainer 

1 garbage can 



Less 20% discount . 



.20 
.10 



.60 
.60 



.25 
.20 
.18 
.20 
.30 
.18 
.30 
.15 
.15 
.80 
.35 
.40 
.15 
.30 
.35 
.25 
.15 
.15 
.10 
.10 



1.00 

1.50 

1.25 

.25 

.85 



$31 08 
6.22 



$24.86 



■ "Just this plan for a cooking school kitchen would probably 
not be adaptable under all circumstances, but it has met our 
needs well this year and paved the way for an ideal kitchen next 
year." 



1909] Women's Clubs ayid Introduction of Domestic Science 181 

Without doubt much of the success of this cooking course was 
due to the teacher, who is a graduate of Simmons College. A 
resourceful teacher can accomplish a great deal with any kind of 
equipment, but this is not saying that better work cannot be done 
in a first-class cooking laboratory. Surely the teaching of 
domestic science calls for as good an equipment as is needed for 
teaching chemistry satisfactorily. 

Although domestic science has been widely introduced in the 
public schools during the last few years it seems sometimes that 
its progress is unnecessarily retarded by the lack of a compelling 
force to voice the need. There are no commercial interests to 
profit by the extension of home economics education — only the 
homes of America. The home makers of America are a tremen- 
dous force, however, and often this force can be exerted most 
effectively through the Women's Clubs. Much has been done in 
extending home economics by the Women's Clubs — much more 
remains to be accomplished. 



The success attending a course of lectures on sanitary 

o , , r -r-, , , science and public health now being given at Cornell 
School of Health, ^t • •* j .-u ■ ■ . ? ..1. tt • 

University under the joint auspices of the University 

and the State Department of Health, has led to the framing of a bill, which 
calls for the establishemnt of a State School of Sanitary Science and Public 
Health at Cornell University. In the bill the general purpose of the 
School is stated to be "to aid in acquiring practical knowledge and in 
diffusing useful information on subjects relating to sanitary science and 
public health among the people of the State of New York, and to promote 
scientific investigation and research respecting the principles and applica- 
tion of sanitary science." 



„, , - The Domestic Arts Association, Cleveland, Ohio, has 

Ulevelfl.nQ 

. . issued a booklet containing its program for 1 908-1 909 

with its list of members and constitution and by-laws. 

Its membership numbers only about twenty-five, according to the list, 

but its program shows a well organized and useful plan of meetings. 

Monthly meetings are provided with topics having to do with the social 

aspects of the home. Topics of its meetings for the year have been as 

follows: Family Life Among Animals, Miss Huntington; Marriage in 

Primitive Life, Miss Isla Campbell; The Family Clan, Miss Mary J. 

Hunter; Contribution of the Home Industries to the Arts and Sciences, 

Mrs. Alice G. Kirk; Family of the Present, Miss Nellie Clendon; and The 

Future of the Home, Mrs. Ada B. Williams. 



EDITORIALS. 

When one speaks of "the literature of home 
The Literature economics," one thinks at once of the wealth 
of Home ^^ ^^^ books which are coming out in this 

Economics. ^^^^ ^^^ should not, however, lose sight of 

the books of the past, especially those which deserve to be termed 
classics because of general currency and long pre-eminence. 
There is another type of older book, too, which unHke the classic 
book passes usually into obscurity, namely, the first scientific 
efforts in any field which with the progress of knowledge are 
usually forgotten. The Journal presents this month articles on 
books of both these types. The Physiology of Taste by Brillat- 
Savarin, will probably keep its place as a classic, along with the 
works of Miss Beecher to use an American illustration, or, to quote 
the most prominent example of all, Xenophen's Oeconomicus. 
The article on Caleb Tichnor, refers to the work of a 
scientific beginner in this field. We may each find courage 
or humility as needed in the fact that men and women have 
for generations worked at the problems of living that con- 
front us; and again all may gain a wider outlook as well 
as a satisfying charm in world books like that of the brilliant 
Frenchman or the philosophic Greek. From time to time, 
the Journal will publish other articles on the old time Hterature 
of home economics which will, it is hoped, be of continued interest 
to its readers. 

The course of study of women's colleges was a 
The CoUege matter of discussion in the first Lake Placid 

Course 

Conference on Home Economics over ten 

years ago, and the colleges were urged to give a place in their 
curricula to subjects concerned with daily Uving and the house- 
hold. Since then real progress has been made in many colleges. 
That the contest for progress is not yet ended, is indicated 
by the following note: "The New York Branch of the Associa- 
tion of Collegiate Alumnae has this year been making a study of 
th« deficiencies of the college curriculum in the lines of hygiene, 
both personal and pubUc; the development of the child; the 
family; and poUtical science and the elements of law in the 
direction of helping toward more intelligent citizenship. The 

182 



Editorials 183 

Branch is studying what is desirable and possible to introduce 
into the college curriculum, with the idea of emphasizing the 
responsibility of the college man and wom.an, to render service 
toward the public good, and to fit the individual to render it 
more intelligently." Persons who are especially interested in 
this problem, or who can make contributions to the investigation, 
will do well to communicate with those in charge of the study. 

_ ,./-,,, There appear elsewhere in this issue, two 

Traveung Schools . ^ ^ i- 11 r 1. 

. references to travelmg schools 01 home 

economics. The Department of Agriculture of 
North Carolina has for two years maintained 
a Domestic Science Car, which is moved about the State and 
is used for demonstration lectures and other instruction 
in domestic science. The article on "Traveling Schools of 
Cookery in Germany" suggests another way in which the 
teachings of home economics are being brought home to 
the people. In agricultural education, the use of the rail- 
road car has come to be quite common. The States of Maine, 
Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland and 
Iowa, and doubtless others, are now using railroad cars for this 
purpose. The widespread adoption of this method in the field 
of home economics seems desirable and workers in home econ- 
omics in the various States, not only those in educational institu- 
tions, but their co-workers in the women's club movement, 
might well take up this question with the State authorities. 

.„ ,. The Executive Committee of the American 

Home Economics Association has now been 
completed by the election, by the Council, of 
five of its members to serve with the elected officers as the Execu- 
tive Board of the Association. The Executive Com^mittee as 
now made up, includes the following persons: Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards, President; Miss Isabel Bevier, ist Vice-President; 
Dr. C. F. Langworthy, 2d Vice-President; Miss Mary Urie 
Watson, 3d Vice-President; Mr. Benjamin R. Andrews, Secre- 
tary-Treasurer ; Members from the Council : Miss Helen Kinne 
(for one year) ; Miss Emma S. Jacobs (for two years) ; Miss 
Caroline L. Hunt (for three years) ; Miss Mary S. Snow (for four 
years) ; Mrs. Alice P. Norton (for five years). 



184 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Plans are making for the meeting of the 
Denver Meeting. American Home Economics Association at the 

Denver Convention of the National Education 
Association, July 5-9. The arrangements have been put in the 
hands of a committee composed of Miss Edna D. Day of Uni- 
versity of Missouri, Miss Rosa Bouton of University of Ne- 
braska, Miss Mary F. Rausch of Colorado Agricultural College, 
Fort Collins, Miss Gertrude Vaile, 1610 Emerson Ave., Denver, 
Colorado, and Miss Minna A. Stoner of University of Wyoming. 
Home Economics teachers of the West should plan to attend the 
Denver meetings. Details of the program will be published in 
the June issue of the Journal of Home Economics. 

The Agricultural Appropriation Bill which 

Nutrition \ ^ ^ ^u ^ t n j 

was enacted at the close of Congress, provides 

' as follows regarding the nutrition investiga- 
tions which have been carried on under the Office of Experiment 
Stations of the United States Department of Agriculture: 

"Nutrition Investigations: To enable the Secretary of Agri- 
culture to investigate the nutritive value of agricultural pro- 
ducts used for human food, with special suggestions of plans 
and methods for the more effective utilization of such products 
for this purpose, with the co-operation of other bureaus of the 
department, and to disseminate useful information on this sub- 
ject, including rent and the employment of labor in the city of 
Washington and elsewhere, and all other necessary expenses, 
ten thousand dollars." 

This provision will be gratifying to all who know of the valu- 
able work which has been carried on by this division of the 
Department of Agriculture in increasing the fund of human 
knowledge regarding human nutrition and in disseminating 
popular information on this subject. 

The Illustrated London News, American edition, 
Men as Cooks. February 6, 1909, contains a reference to the recent 

Food and Cookery Exhibition in London, at which 
cooks from various institutions and from the Army and Navy, took part in 
competitions. The Army Council provides for the exhibtions a silver 
challenge shield for military hospital cooking, which was won this time, 
by the men who cook for the Millbank Hospital. Naval cooks won 946 
out of a possible 1000 marks in their competitive work. The article 
closes with the comment that the serious attitude toward cookery which 
these men take is all quite as it should be. 



« 



THE NATIONAL HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION 

1893-1903. 

Mrs. Linda Hull Larned. 

The famous Women's Congress of the Chicago Exposition of 
1893, awakened the pubhc mind to the fact that matters per- 
taining to the household, had not kept up with the procession of 
progress. Therefore, a day was appointed in which to investi- 
gate this neglected science and the result was the organization 
of an association aimed to benefit the home makers of this 
country and to be National in scope. The organization took as 
its name.The National Household Economic Association, and Mrs. 
John Wilkinson of Chicago, was elected its first president, and 
Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin, honorary president. Mrs. Wilkinson 
proved a most efficient and executive leader, and with the 
assistance of Mrs. Henrotin and many other well known women 
was able to induce the Women's Clubs of the country, to take an 
active interest in all education pertaining to the betterment of 
the home. The Association planned to work especially through 
women's clubs. The objects as declared in its constitution were 
as follows : 

"i. To awaken the pubhc mind to the importance of es- 
tablishing bureaus of information where there can be an exchange 
of wants and needs between employer and employed, in every 
department of home and social life. 

"2. To promote among members of the Association a more 
scientific knowledge of the economic value of various foods and 
fuels, a more intelligent understanding of correct plumbing and 
drainage in our homes, as well as need for pure water and good 
light in a sanitarily built house. 

"3. To secure skilled labor in ever>^ department of our homes 
and to organize schools of household science and service." 

Mrs. Wilkinson was followed as president, by Mrs. Ellen Har- 
bart, of Illinois, and Dr. Mary E. Green, of Michigan, succeeded 
Mrs. Harbart as president. By this time the organization had 
become generally recognized through the efforts of State vice- 
presidents who in turn presented the subject and supplied litera- 
ture to the clubs and educational institutions of their representa- 
tive states. During Dr. Green's presidency. Household Eco- 

185 



1 86 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

nomics was given a place on the program of the conventions of 
the General Federation of Women's Clubs, and also at many of 
the meetings of the State Federations. Dr. Green was called 
upon to speak at these meetings as also were many other workers 
in the field. The subject met with an enthusiastic reception at 
the Denver Biennial of the General Federation, and the women 
throughout the West were ready to enhst in this new, yet very old, 
enterprise. Mrs. Lamed, of New York State, succeeded Dr. 
Green and under her regime the subject found favor at all the 
Biennial conventions during the four years that she was in office, 
and no less than thirty-five States, as well as Canada, were 
represented by vice-presidents. Mrs. Lamed not only presented 
the subject at these National and State meetings, but was in- 
vited by Mr. Peck, our Commissioner to the Paris Exposition, to 
take part in the series of Congresses that were held in the Palais 
de Congress during that summer and was given a prominent 
place on the program of Women's Works and Institutions at this 
Congress. 

The Association held its annual meetings during the ten years 
of its existence, in different states, and at the invitation of local 
organizations, its last meeting was held in Toledo, Ohio, 
October, 1903. As by this time the objects and aims of the 
Association had become thoroughly incorporated in the work of 
the General and State Federations of Women's Clubs, and as the 
Lake Placid Conference was now doing much better work along 
the same lines, it was decided at the Toledo meeting to merge the 
work of the Association into that of the Committee of Household 
Economics of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. The 
following year the first report of a committee on Household Econ- 
omics was made at a General Federation Convention, at the 
meeting in St. Louis in 1904. 

The National Household Economic Association published and 
circulated annual reports containing summaries of work and 
progress in the States, and from time to time, published Outlines 
of Study, and also addresses of importance given at its annual 
conventions. The Association was entertained two or three times 
in Chicago, and once in Atlanta, in Toronto, in Buffalo, in Mil- 
waukee and Toledo. 

There are now many schools of Domestic Science in flourishing 
existence which owe their inspiration to the efforts of the 



1909] The National Household Economic Association 187 

workers in the National Household Economic Association, and 
in many towns and cities it was more or less instrumental in 
introducing manual training and domestic science for girls in the 
public schools. It may well be regarded as one of the most im- 
portant movements which paved the way for the American Home 
Economics Association, 



In an article entitled "The New Pro \'ince Two Thousand 

^ , Years Old," by E. Huntington, in Harper's Maeazine 

Turkestan. & > f & 

for December, 1908, which is descriptive of the author's 

travels in Chinese Turkestan, considerable information is given regarding 

the food habits of the people and the effects of their food on their general 

condition and efficiency. 

For over 2,000 years the Chinese have been the dominant race in this 
region though their political supremacy has been lost at intervals and then 
regained. The mountain regions are inhabited by Khirghiz nomads who 
have large herds of horses, cows, sheep, and goats, and according to the 
author are generous users of meat and milk in their diet. These people are 
strong, vigorous and decidedly superior in these qualities according to his 
statements to the Chantos who are the chief inhabitants of the plains — "a 
weak-willed people, pleasant and easy to deal with, but lacking the 
stronger virtues, and sadly prone to all manner of self-indulgence." The 
Chantos grow large quantities of peaches, nectarines, apples, etc. As 
regards their food habits, the author states that "instead of the milk and 
meat of the mountain nomads, fruit in enormous quantities, with bread, 
rice, and vegetables, formed the diet of the people." 

The Chinese in this region follow their usual food customs. "It is 
ainazing to see how high the civilization of the Chinese appears in contrast 
to that of the natives. At a Chanto meal one sits cross-legged on the mud 
floor, and all the guests eat from a single dish of rice in the middle of a 
cloth. To go, as I several times did, from such a repast to a sumptuous 
Chinese dinner of thirty courses, . . . and to find the meal served on a 
polished wooden table surrounded by chairs and set with individual 
bowls and chop-sticks, makes one realize how far Chinese civilization has 
advanced beyond that of neighboring races. Much more impressive, how- 
ever, is the deference of the Chantos to the Chinese — a deference which is 
obvious even when the people speak with bitterness of their rulers. . . 
Such an attitude on the part of a subject race is only possible when the 
rulers possess a high degree of strength of character." It would appear 
from the author's generalizations that the Chantos who live on fruits, 
cereals, etc., rather than the generous, mixed diet of the Chantos or the 
Khirghiz diet, characterized by an abundance of meat and milk, lack their 
energy and vigor. 

On the basis of data presented it would be obviously unfair to attribute 
such differences solely to differences in diet, but the material presented'is 
of decided interest as a contribution to the subject of the possible influence 
of racial food habits on race condition and achievements. 



IN THE TEACHING FIELD. 

On the morning of New Year's Day, 1909, a 

. Round Table on Domestic Science was held in 

at Washmgton. ^^^ ^^ ^^^ parlors of the Hotel Gordon ; Miss 

Kinne, as former Chairman of the Teaching Section, presided. 

The meeting was well attended and was representative of 
several sections of the country and several lines of work, though 
most members of the Conference present were teachers of do- 
mestic science. The subject under discussion was Domestic 
Science in the High School Curriculum, and more particularly in 
its relation to College Entrance. There were some slight dif- 
ferences of opinion, but on the whole the meeting was agreed in 
regard to the following points: First, that high school teachers 
of domestic science should agree on a course for college entrance, 
which could be put into the college preparatory- high school; 
second, that this course should be intensive, dealing thoroughly 
with some one subject say, foods — only in this way can the work 
be made sufficiently weighty from the college point of view; 
third, that it would be well if possible to have at least one year's 
work, to be taken by the girl who is to enter college and the one 
who will not ; this would make for economy in the school curri- 
culum and in the teaching force. There was some difference of 
opinion here, some of the teachers present thinking that this was 
not possible. 

A very pleasant feature of the meeting resulted from a sug- 
<yestion made by Dean Arnold of Simmons College, that every 
person present should give her name and tell something of her 
work. This developed the fact that the gathering was very 
representative of the domestic science field. Informal discus- 
sion followed among the members of the Committee on College 
Entrance Requirements of the Teaching Section of the Lake Placid 
Conference, although this committee had been formally dis- 
charged. The result of these conferences and later correspon- 
dence will be published in the June number in the form of a 
definite proposition for a course of the kind indicated above. 



igoo] In the Teaching Field 189 

^ rx L- -'^t the Washington meeting of the American 

Open Questions ^, „ * . . . . 

. ^ , . Home Economics Association, it was sug-- 

in Teaching . i ., . . , r , 

-, ^, . gested that teachers or home economics, or 

Method. 1 , ij 1 

household arts, need most at present to dis- 
cuss methods of teaching rather than courses of study. It is with 
this thought in view that this column is opened. 

The Journal should certainly afford opportunity for discus- 
sions through correspondence of many vital matters in regard 
to method, both theoretic and practical. All interested mem- 
bers of the Association are invited to take part in the discussions, 
by letter, and to propose new questions for discussion. A few 
practical questions follow as the opening of this department : 

In cookery, one most important question is perhaps that of 
laboratory management and its relation to cost of maintenance. 
This connection may not be obvious at first, but through the 
attempt to lessen the cost of materials to the school, teachers have 
resorted to group work, where several pupils work together upon 
one dish, or in individual work, to small quantities. If these 
quantities are too small, the training is not practical. This is 
especially true in batter work, for instance. In group work the 
pupils of course miss the opportunity for individual training. 
Either of these methods will reduce the cost per capita per lesson, 
either in the elementary or high school, to two cents. In one 
of our large cities where the small quantity method is used, the 
cost per capita is as stated. The same cost per capita is given by 
the supervisor of another large city system where the group 
method is largely used. If either of these methods alone can 
reduce the cost to two cents per capita, surely some wise combina- 
tion of the two, might have the same result. It is in the batter 
work, as already noted, that individual work gives the pupil op- 
portunity to develop skill ; yet a normal quantity is costly, there- 
fore, here it might be wise to have one or two lessons of the 
individual type, and others of the group type. 

It is necessary, for two reasons, to make expenditures low; 
in the first place, to make it possible for School Boards to intro- 
duce and maintain the work, and in the second place, to teach 
economy in the use of materials to the pupils. 

Work in cookery costs more than in the other branches of 
domestic science work, and perhaps the supplies are more per 
capita than any other work in the school; yet while practising 



loo The Journal of Home Economics f April 

economy, domestic science teachers should contend against an 
appropriation so Umited that the work is actually crippled. 

There are several ways in which this burden of maintenance 
can be lightened to the school. In many of our training schools 
and colleges a laboratory fee is paid by the students. But it is in 
the use of some commercial plan that the best solution of this 
difficult problem may be found. By commercial, is meant some 
plan which involves the selling of the cooked products, either in 
a lunch room or to individuals. It is interesting to note that 
varied forms of this method are already in existence in different 
parts of this country. In addition to the fact that by seUing 
products the appropriation is increased, there are two strong 
arguments in favor of this plan; in the first place, it gives the 
pupil opportunity to w^ork with normal quantities which is cer- 
tainly most desirable, and in the second, it familiarizes her in a 
practical way with the cost of food materials and with the 
market value of her labor. 

At the School of Practical Arts, Boston, Massachusetts, one 
cent per capita per lesson only is allowed by the School Board. 
Miss Annie L. Bennett, the Director of Domestic Science, says 
that this is not a sufficient amount to allow material for practical 
training; therefore. Miss Bennett has devised a school lunch 
scheme by which the dishes prepared in the cookery classes are 
utilized for the luncheon. The pupils gain much in experience 
both in preparation and in a knowledge of the cost of food. In 
this way too, the quantities are sufficiently large to induce the 
dealers to allow a discount. 

At the Hebrew Technical School for Girls, New York City, 
Miss Anna Hedges, Director, a somewhat similar plan is followed. 
In this school the senior girls prepare a daily luncheon for the 
teaching staff, each teacher paying fifteen cents for her luncheon. 
Cooked food is also sold to friends of the school and to pupils. In 
these two ways, the actual outlay to the school is reduced to 
three cents per pupil per month. Here, certainly, are problems 
for discussion. The following definite questions are propounded: 

1. How may individual and group work be wisely combined ? 

2. What other schemes resembling those in the two schools 
mentioned are already in operation and with what success ? 

3. Are there any possible objections to this financial scheme, 
and what? 



1909] 



In the Teaching Field 



191 



The accompanying illustrations were received 
Cooking Tables, too late to appear with the discussion of 

"Adequate Equipment for Domestic Science" 
in the November Preliminary Bulletin. The illustrations are 
therefore given here and the paragraph on cooking tables having 
reference to the illustrations is repeated. 

"Simple tables can be made by a local carpenter at compara- 
tively small expense. If great economy is necessary, the com- 
mon wooden kitchen table can be used, either old or new, or 
stained packing boxes. Wooden horses, with movable boards 











• • 


• . ' 




• 


j- 




• • 






, , 







^ 



—r¥r- 






-a V 



'V70 r\t V/iew 



^ 



7J~ 5. ~ 



4;H 



-^X<r 



u 



-2." 









1' 



T 



2.i3-.4 



'0! 



1 L 

End \/i e^ 



*Minimum space for each pupil. 



192 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

on top, have been tried successfully; such simple arrangements 
are desirable in introducing the work. If tables are to be built 
in, as is common in permanent equipment, various floor plans are 
possible. Two parallel tables (I) are convenient in a rather long 
and narrow room, and secondly, in a room where serving is to be 
done as well as cooking. The cooking in such a place can be done 
at one side of the room, and the serving at the other. A rect- 
angular arrangement (II) is a good one for a large class, since the 
instructor is able to stand in the center and have supervision of all 
the tables. The arrangement of tables in a group (III) often 
economizes space; it makes many more steps for the teacher, 
however, and makes it more difficult for her to keep in touch with 
all the tables. The shape and size of the room and the size of 
the class will usually determine the arrangement of tables, but 
in general the rectangular form is recommended for elementary 
and secondary schools. Twenty pupils to a table are considered 
desirable. A working drawing (IV) of a table unit is presented, 
3 1 inches high, 24 inches wide, and 26 inches deep, with a 6^ inch 
drawer for utensils. Maple tops and ash frames make a good 
combination, or cheaper wood below. Oak may be substituted 
for maple. An estimate in New York for building twenty such 
units in rectangular form was Si 00. Prices will doubtless vary 
elsewhere." 

The following original studies in the fields related to 
niver i y home economics appear in doctors' dissertations for the 

Uisser a ions. degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the American uni- 

versities last year. The list in full is printed in Science, September 18, 
1908. 

Yale University — Stanley Rossiter Benedict: "Experimental studies 
on the Metabolism of Magnesium and Calcium." 

George Washington University — Frank Cummings Cook: "Phos- 
phorus Metabolism Experiments." 

University of Missouri — Charles Brooks: "The Fruit Spot of Apples; 
a Morphological and Physiological Study;" Caroline McGill: "The 
Structure of Smooth Muscle in the Resting and in the Contracted Condi- 
tion." 

Columbia University — Elmer Ellsworth Jones: "A Comparison of 
Mental States in the Horizontal and Vertical Positions of the Body;" 
Matthew Steel: "The Influence of Magnesium Sulphate on Nitrogenous 
Catabolism in Dogs, with Special Reference to the Distribution of Nitro- 
gen among the Constituents of the Urine." 

University of Chicago — Clarence Stone Yoakum: "An Experimental 
Study of Mental Fatigue." 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE MEETING AT CLEVELAND. 



NORTHEASTERN OHIO TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 

The Northeastern Ohio Teachers' Association met at Cleve- 
land, February 12-13, 1909- There were three general sessions, 
and in addition, twenty-five or thirty departmental meetings. 
Among the latter was the departmental meeting on Domestic 
Science and Domestic Art, which was held at Central High School. 
About 30 Domestic Science teachers were present and enjoyed a 
very interesting meeting. The leader was Miss Carlotta C. 
Greer, of Cleveland. The program included the following papers : 
(i) The educational value of domestic science, Miss Rachel H. 
Colwell, Lake Erie College, Painesville. (2) Teaching chemistry 
as applied to domestic science, Miss Mary Converse, Technical 
High School. (3) Bettering of taste in dress and house furnishings 
through domestic art. Miss Lana Bishop, Technical High School. 
(4) The influence of domestic science on society. Miss Esther 
M.Howland, Cleveland. Abstracts of these papers follow: 

THE EDUCATIONAL VALUE OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 
Miss Rachel H. Colwell. 

Lake Erie College. 

From a consideration of the place of Domestic Science in the 
general scheme of education a broader view may be obtained of 
its possible significance, and having established the larger claim, 
the adaptation to special needs will follow the more readily. 

Education is a process of evolution. The child should be the 
unit around whom the education centers, and culture, true 
culture, the attainment. The practical application of these ideals 
means a better knowledge of our subject. We are in a new 
field. We need the scientific attitude of mind and scientific 
methods. Better teaching would result from clearer think- 
ing. A few fundamental principles established in the mind of 
the child by a greater variety of examples, is better than a 
smattering of many. The child should have purpose and under- 
standing, be taught how to do his own thinking. The made dish 
is not an end in itself. Why not have a clear cut working outline 
for the various ways of cooking all vegetables which is applicable 

193 



194 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

to each, with certain modifications which can be shown, instead 
of a special recipe for each? Having estabhshed the common 
methods of cooking the potato for instance, have the common 
methods of cooking the sweet potato any fundamental differences 
which can not be explained by reference to its composition? 
The very explanation helps to fix the differences in food value, 
and so on through the roots, bulbs, stems, leaves, flower and 
seed. Is it not after all a study of relative values of the foods 
which gives to each food its proper place? May the question be 
left, do we see and make use of the full educational value of our 
work? 

BETTERING OF TASTE IN DRESS AND HOUSE FURNISHING 
THROUGH DOMESTIC ART. 

Lana Bishop. 

Technical High School, Cleveland. 

How to influence for good taste in dress and house furnishing 
is a great problem. Each girl whether she is to enter the in- 
dustrial field or become the head of a home, should receive such 
training as will enable her to meet and solve intelligently the 
problems which will come to her from time to time, not only from 
the practical standpoint, but from the economic and artistic side 
as well. 

Good taste in dress is the faculty of being able to select and 
combine such materials, and to so adjust them to the figure, as to 
produce a perfect harmony. 

Common sense should overrule the aspirant to successful 
dressing. Fashion often leads us far astray from the path of 
refined taste, and the prevailing shapes and colors must be 
modified according to the individual style and personality of the 
wearer or the results will be unsatisfactory to herself and to the 
friends whom she wishes to please. We are told that Queen 
Alexandra of England, is the best dressed woman of today, and 
why? She has made a study of what is most becoming to her as 
an individual, and no matter what is fashionable, she chooses 
that which is adaptable to her particular style. Our best 
designers of gowns find most inspiring examples of color and 
designs for costumes, in the world's great picture galleries, where 
priceless portraits painted by old masters are hung. 

Since our comfort and peace of mind depend largely upon our 
surroimdings, the home should be a haven of rest. The old idea 



1909] Domestic Science Aleetivg at Clevelayid 195 

was that a beautiful home must necessarily be expensive and elab- 
orate, but we now agree with the Japanese in his ideas of what is 
good in household art, and have learned to appreciate true 
beauty in simple things. In the study of house decoration, as 
well as in the study of dress, we take into consideration the fitness 
to purpose, simple line, color combinations and appropriate 
materials . Each room in the house should receive careful thought 
making the whole a hannonious color scheme. 

How can we, through Domestic Art teaching, help the girls to 
appreciate this? Begin early with the very young children, 
working out simple problems, regulating the work according to 
the age, and gradually cover all the general principles, opening to 
the girls, step by step, as they grow older, that side of life which 
rightfully belongs to them. Give them the interesting history of 
textiles from the prehistoric ages, from the origin of tools to the 
present system of factories, where thousands of yards of materials 
are made daily; show them how to sew in all ways from the 
coarse stitches on canvas to the finest of French embroidery; 
teach them how to buy by making them familiar with all kinds of 
fabrics ; help them to appreciate good design through their study 
of color, line and form and their application to materials. 

The grace that comes from a mind trained to appreciate real 
beauty in simple things is what all women should secure. A 
woman who has secured this is a success both in the home and in 
society. 

A great deal of attention should be given to the girl who is to 
become one of the great army of industrial workers. According 
to recent reports, there are 6,000,000 women in the United 
States who are gainfully emiployed. We find that in 72 of the 78 
cities having 50,000 inhabitants, more than one-third of the girls 
between 16 and 20 years of age are at work. In 36 of these 
cities more than one-half are earning their living, and in eight the 
rate rises as high as 69% and even 77% of the total number of 
girls. Nearly all occupations are open to them, and many 
industries which require skilled labor depend upon women for 
their finest workmanship. Although among this army of young 
women workers, we find many trained for their various lines, a 
large majority are in the unskilled class and perhaps have begun 
as cash girls or errand girls when only fourteen years of age. If a 
girl is imusually bright, she may rise to a good position, but in 



196 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

many cases the wage continues low in the scale and the results 
are sometimes serious. The mind of the young girl is susceptible 
to all sorts of temptations, her taste is undeveloped and her 
judgment is crude. Her desire to dress as other people do, leads 
her to buy beyond what she can afford, or to select inappropriate 
materials far removed from the artistic lines a person of more 
mature or trained mind would choose. 

Employers are calling for trained workers in dressmaking, 
millinery and power-machine operating trades, and other skilled 
occupations for women, but the number ready to respond is 
small. The apparent need for a place where girls could receive 
such training led to the establishment of the Boston Trade School 
for Girls in 1904. Two years previous the Manhattan Trade 
School in New York was started and it had grown to be very 
strong in its work — a model well worth copying. In the main 
the two schools are much the same, but owing to some differences 
in trade requirements of the tw^o cities, certain lines are em- 
phasized more in one than in the other. 

These schools have proven their worth over and over again. 
It is impossible to estimate its value to the pupil or to the 
employer. At first employment was sought for the girls, now 
they cannot be trained fast enough to meet the demand. As the 
girls go out into the trade, an influence for better physical, moral 
and economic conditions among the industrial workers is gradu- 
ally making itself felt, and life to the girls themselves is much 
happier for their having had a training at the trade school. In 
such trade schools, there will be opportunities to enforce the 
standards of good taste. 

Our work in Domestic Art must be broad, dealing with all 
phases of the subject, influencing for better conditions in all 
places, and teaching the girls how to live in their particular 
environment. 

TEACHING CHEMISTRY IN CONNECTION WITH DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 

Mary Converse. 

Instructor in Applied Chemistry, Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio. 

In technical high schools there is a tendency to emphasize 
practical work, which for domestic science means actual cookery ; 
yet as theory and experiments are a necessary foundation, work 
in science and in chemistry is being added to the curriculum. 



1909] Domestic Science Meeting at Cleveland 197 

"The aim of this course is, primarily, to train the girl to efficiency; 
secondarily, to make a correlation point for other studies, to 
force their application in the common affairs of life and to cause 
the school to function immediately in daily life." Chemistry as 
applied to the teaching of domestic science is still in a primitive 
state, but as time goes on the benefit and necessity of it will 
become more evident. Chemistry as given in the usual high 
school course applies more to the practical work of the boys than 
girls. A certain amount of general chemistry is necessary for 
the girls, particularly that which will be of assistance to them in 
connection with their work in domestic science, and this can be 
given as applied chemistry. 

For instance, when combustion is being studied in the domestic 
science laboratory, experiments can be given in the chemical 
laboratory on the generation of oxygen and nitrogen, showing 
their effect on a lighted candle and proving the necessity of 
oxygen in combustion. Kindling point can also be emphasized 
and this point determined with the use of kerosene or gasolene 
and the thermometer. The Fahrenheit thermometer is better 
than the Centigrade for this purpose as it is commonly found in 
the home. If the Centigrade must be used then the work of 
transfering the Centigrade scale to Fahrenheit can come in con- 
nection with their w^ork in mathematics. 

While carbohydrates are being studied in the domestic science 
laboratory, work along the same line is given in the chemical 
laboratory, for instance, detection of starch in vegetables, effect 
of soaking in water for a time, composition of cereals determined, 
and experiments on sugar. While studying the different foods, 
their preparation for market, cost, digestion, etc., is taken up. 

With fats it is possible to include testing for adulterations and 
determining the best for use in deep fat frying. Proteins are 
taken up with a study of eggs; and of milk with testing for 
composition, quality and adulterations. Determination of fat 
by the Babcock method and action of rennet on milk are given. 
Meat is studied with regard to the effects of heat and cold, hot 
and cold salted water and the extraction of food principles for 
soup making, etc. Gelatine, legumes, food adjuncts, etc., also 
have their place in the work. Tests on flours, breads, baking 
powders and other materials are made for adulterations as well as 
to find their composition. Tests with antiseptics, preser\-atives 



198 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

and the action of alkalies and vegetable acids on metals are 
included. 

This is a very brief statement of the course in applied chemistry 
now being given in the technical high school in Cleveland. 
Not only does the application of applied sciences vivify the work 
of domestic science, but the student gains new appreciation of 
the value of these subjects. 

THE INFLUENCE OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE ON SOCIETY. 

Esther M. Rowland. 

Domestic science as a social factor may, I think, be considered 
to be effective in three ways : First in the development of general 
social efficiency; second, in the contribution to the social life of 
the school; and third in its direct effect upon the home. The 
special value of domestic science, and we should include in this 
the study of food, clothing and shelter, depends upon the fact 
that it deals with the environment and touches the whole round 
of human life. 

Recent examinations of school children in various cities of 
England and America has revealed a state of physical ill being 
most deplorable. Nutrition, the first point of inquiry, is indic- 
ative of all other functions of the body. Many a child is 
punished for laziness and irritability, who really ought merely to 
be nourished into energy and good temper. These results show 
that food, which is absolutely essential to life, is also an im- 
portant factor in right living. 

The socializing movement is well under way but there is a 
lack of correlation between the school and the needs of indus- 
trial and social condition in some towns. There is, for example, 
too little education for the factory girls who are in sore need of it 
both for their own good and for the good of the community. 

Housekeeping in the widest sense, the provision of domestic 
comfort within the home, is the largest single industry known. 
Yet it is an accepted fact that being bom a woman is not being 
born a housekeeper, and she needs the wisest training we can 
give to fit her for the most responsible position she can ever hold, 
that of wife and mother. 

In conclusion I would like to tell about the home science work 
that has been so successfully carried on among the working men's 
wives in Waterbury, Connecticut, by one of the instructors of 



I 



1909] Domestic Science Meeting at Cleveland 199 

the Waterbury Institute of Craft and Industry. Each class is 
limited to twelve members and is composed of the women in the 
neighborhood. These classes are held in their own home kit- 
chens and they are allowed to bring their infants and small 
children and thus are able to care for them during the class 
session. A two-hour lesson is held once a week and a charge of 
five cents is made and out of this the supplies are purchased for 
the lessons. The object of these lessons is to teach these mar- 
ried women how to make their homes more attractive and home- 
like and the proper way of living. The course includes: The 
care of the home, the care and feeding of children, home nursing 
and how to buy and prepare food by simple, healthful and 
economic methods. In most of the classes the members have 
been most enthusiastic and they have appreciated what they 
have learned. One husband is reported to have said "It's a 
pleasure to come home now, knowing we will have a good hot 
meal." 

These women have also been benefited by the social side of 
these lessons. More than one has said, "This is the only time I 
go from home during the week." One woman said, "I can't 
tell you what this class has done for me. Besides all I have 
learned about cooking, I've made the acquaintance of these wo- 
men in the church and through them have joined the Ladies' 
Aid Society and have taken a class in Sunday school. In- 
directly, it has brightened my whole life." 

We are able to see some of the results of such teaching, but I 
am sure we cannot know all of it, for each woman is the home- 
maker of a family. 

The American Anti- Accident Association, with headquarters at Sharps- 
ville, Pennsylvania, is an organization which is carrying on educational 
work aimed at the prevention of accidents. The Association has adopted 
a poHcy which calls for educational measures looking to the develop- 
ment of an informed public opinion. This policy includes twenty-four 
fundamental features, among them the following: "Advocation of con- 
sistent hygienic or sanitary science in our nation's educational, commercial 
and industrial, institutions," "Adoption of a sane and safe Fourth of July 
throughout the country'," "Vigorous efforts to help reduce the present ap- 
palling number of fires in our forests, dwellings, commercial and industrial 
communities," "Advocacy of an economical State or National insurance 
system that will tender an assured and immediate compensation to injured 
employees and others hurt by accidents, and which will also be helpful in 
preventing accidents." 



CONSTITUTION OF HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
OF GREATER NEW YORK. 

The Constitution of the Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York is printed for the suggestions it may give to 
other local societies which may be formed. 

In view of the fact that a large number of workers in Home Economics, 
in New York are without organization, we, the undersigned, hereby asso- 
ciate ourselves as follows : 

I 
Naub. 

1. The Home Economics Association of Greater New York, (in 
affiliation with the American Home Economics Association). 

II 

Purpose. 

1 . To bring about closer co-operation among teachers and workers in 
Domestic Science, Domestic Art and allied fields, in order that more 
effective work may be done in improving the conditions and raising the 
standards of living. 

2. Specifically the Association aims: (a) To hold conferences of its 
members and others interested, (b) To develop and strengthen the work 
of the schools in all matters affecting health and efficiency in the family 
and individual, (c) To demonstrate the vital interdependence of private 
and municipal housekeeping, (d) To educate public opinion by circulat- 
ing literature, by meetings, by publications in the public press and else- 
where and to make advancement secure by municipal and legislative re- 
gulations. 

Ill 

Membership. 
I. All interested persons who pay the annual fee. 

IV 
Officers. 

1 . The Officers shall consist of a President , Vice-Presidents, a Secretary- 
Treasurer and an Executive Comm.ittee. 

2. The executive committee shall be composed of the President, First 
Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer and four additional members elected 
at the annual meeting. 

3. All officers shall be elected for one year at the annual meeting, and 
shall have the duties usually pertaining to such officers. 



1909] Constitution of Home Economics Association 201 

V 
Amendment. 
This constitution may be amended at any meeting by a two-thirds vote, 
notice of the proposed change having been given ten (10) days in advance 
or by announcement of the fact at any regular meeting. 

BY-LAWS. 
ARTICLE I. 
Membership. 
There shall be three classes of membership : 

1. Active, open to all interested who are approved by the Executive 
Committee and who pay the fees. 

2. Associate membership, open to those who desire to affiliate with the 
work of the Association without taking an active part in it, and who pay 
the fees. This membership will be open to individuals and to clubs, 
societies, institutions, public officials and others. 

3. Life membership may be secured by the payment of $25.00, approved 
by the Executive Committee. 

Membership shall cease only upon written notice to the Secretary. 

ARTICLE II. 

Meetings. 
The Annual Meeting shall be held on the second Saturday in January 
and shall be followed by the Annual Luncheon. The roll of membership 
shall be called at the Annual Meeting. Other meetings shall be held as 
the Executive Committee may appoint, or they may be called over the 
names of any fifteen members. 

ARTICLE III. 
Fee. 
The Annual Fee shall be fifty cents ($.50) for active and associate mem- 
bers, but an extra assessment may be levied on active members, by vote 
of any meeting, to meet delegates expenses or other extraordinary ex- 
penditures, provided due notice is given in the call for the meeting and 
provided that the total amount of dues and assessments shall not exceed 
one dollar ($1.00) per year. The Fee shall be payable in advance at the 
Annual Meeting. 

ARTICLE IV. 

Standing Committees. 
The Standing Committees shall comprise the following : 

1. Membership committee which shall endeavor to increase the mem- 
bership. 

2. Program Committee which shall plan the year's work including 
lectures and addresses and discussions on theses which concern the field of 
work of the Association. 



20 2 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

3. Publicity and Literature Committee which shall furnish information 
to the public press and shall distribute literature. 

Each of the Executive Committee shall be assigned to the Chairman- 
ship of a suitable Standing Committee, by the President, and additional 
chairmen, as necessary, shall be appointed by the President. The Chair- 
men of the Committees shall then select the members of their committees. 

Additional committees shall be elected or appointed, from time to 
time, as the Association shall direct. 

ARTICLE V. 
Election of Officers. 

There shall be a Committee on Nominations of five members, elected at 
the Annual Meeting, to serve for a term of one year. This Committee 
shall receive suggestions of nominations up to two weeks before the 
Annual Meeting. It shall then prepare a list of not less than three 
nominations for each office, which shall be submitted by mail, to all mem- 
bers, one week in advance of the Annual Meeting. Election shall be by a 
majority of active members voting at the Annual Meeting. The voting 
shall be by ballot. 

After the first meeting, the four members of the Executive Committee 
shall by their own vote, determine which one shall serve four years; which 
one three years; which one, two years; which one, one year. After the 
first year, one member of the Executive Committee shall be elected each 
year, for a term of four years. 

ARTICLE VI. 

Relation of this Association to the American Home Economics 

Association. 
This Association shall co-operate with the American Home Economics 
Association in such ways as shall be defined by vote of the former. In 
accordance with the present Constitution of the American Home Econo- 
mics Association, the Association of Greater New York will each year, at 
the Annual Meeting, elect for a term of one year, one or more Representa- 
tive Councilors (according to the representation granted by the American 
Home Economics Association) who will represent this Association on the 
Council of the American Home Economics Association. The Secretary 
shall issue a statement of authority to act as such a Representative. It 
shall be the duty of the Representative Councilor to furnish the Journal 
of Home Economics with programs of the meetings of the Association 
and copies of all papers delivered which seem suitable for publication, to 
attend meetings of the American Council, and in other ways aid as medium 
of communication between the two Associations. 

ARTICLE VII. 
Quorum. 
A Quorum shall consist of twenty-one active members. 



1909] Constitution of Home Economics Association 203 

ARTICLE VIII. 
Amendment. 
The By-laws may be amended at any meeting regularly called by 
two-thirds vote of those present and voting, provided due notice is given 
in the call. 



. The philosopher of the New York Evening Sun writes 

. . this about home economics in the issue of January 4th, 

under the editorial caption, "The Domestic Arts in 
Missouri:" 

"They had a meeting of the Missouri State Teachers' Association at 
Kansas City a few days ago, and upon the peace of their intellectual de- 
liberations descended a terrible cave-man with a knotty club, in the form 
of Mr. Louis Theilman, a Superintendent of Schools in St. Francois 
county, shouting for less I'amin' and better cooks, in the untutored phrase 
of his constituents in the pleasant town of Bonne Terre. 

" 'Once there was a proverb which said the way to reach a man's heart 
was through his stomach. That opinion appears to have changed 
Nowadays the proper way to reach a man's heart is supposed to be through 
a knowledge of the dead languages and 'Plutarch's Lives.' In many 
families it's regarded as a sign of inferiority for the girl of the home to 
know how to do things about the house — wash dishes, sew and cook. 

" 'The domestic arts are being shunned as degrading. It's all due to the 
fact that there is not enough public education along these lines. 

" 'If the practice of law had to be taught at home instead of at expensive 
colleges it would rank lower than cooking does right now.' 

" 'The real question is too deep and wide to take up here — whether the 
domestic arts have been really and forever displaced from the fireside, and 
should henceforward be taught in schools during the stated hours of study, 
or whether the masters of these arts should still have their chairs under the 
roof of the family home. Miles of paper, barrels of ink, a hundred sana- 
toriums full of cases of nervous prostration, a thousand dislocated jaw- 
bones — such are part of the inevitable price we must pay for settling this 
mighty question, if, indeed, it ever shall be settled. But Mr. Theilman 
voiced the average cave-man's sentiments — the average cave-man who is 
a merchant or a mechanic or a professional man or a "railroader" or a 
manufacturer or a clerk — which include a longing for a habit of mutual 
friendliness and common interest in the family circle, a preference for a 
little good meat with the salt of peace, over a table overspread from de- 
signs in a fashion paper and laden with good food spoiled in the cooking, a 
blind yearning toward a simplified and better balanced life. And so 
brutish are the instincts of the cave-man that he will even forego talking 
eternally about such an ideal state if only he can sometimes, even fitfully 
and with generous regard for the nobler intellectual arts, actually get his 
home comfort once in a while in whatever way his wife will give it to him." 



BOOKS AND UTERATURE. 

The Home Economics Movement, Isabel Bevier and Susannah Usher. 
Whitcomb and Barrows, publishers, Boston, 1906. Pp. 67. Price, $.75. 

"If history be regarded just as the record of the past, it is hard to see 
any grounds for claiming that it should play any large role in the curricu- 
lum of elementary education," says Dr. John Dewey in The Progressive 
Journal of Education. Although he is speaking of the teaching of children 
and "The Home Economics Movement" is written for those of larger 
growth, he indicates quite exactly that which gives to the book its special 
value. He says further: "The past is the past and the dead may safely 
be left to bur>' its dead. There are too many urgent demands in the 
present, too many calls over the threshold of the future, to permit the 
child to become completely immersed in what is forever gone by. * * ♦ 
Whatever history- may be for the scientific historian, for the educator it 
must be an indirect sociology' — a study of society which lays bare its pro- 
cess of becoming and its modes of organization." "The Home Economics 
Movement" is not "a mere record of the past" though it gives the history 
of the establishment of many institutions and courses which have played 
their part on the educational stage and have disappeared; it is instead, 
"indirect sociology," the story of how women of needs and problems very 
like our own, have been working out their educational salvation. It "lays 
bare the process of becoming" in the Home Economics Movement in such 
a way as to be helpful to those who are listening to the "calls over the 
threshold of the future." In the introduction there is an interesting 
account of woman's education in this count^>^ The chapters which follow 
relate to "Home Economics in Agricultural Colleges and State Universi- 
ties," "Cooking Schools" and "Home Economics in the Public Schools." — 
Caroline L. Hunt. 

One Woman's Work for Farm Women. Jennie Buell. Pp.78. Whit- 
comb & Barrows, Boston. Price 50 cents. 

This is the story of the part taken by one woman in rural social movements. 
Mrs. Mary A. Mayo was known as "Mother Mayo" by hundreds of men 
and women in Michigan at a time when rural life offered many vicissi- 
tudes. She was educated in the public schools of Michigan and at the 
time of the great struggle for existence after the Civil War she began her 
married life in a little log house where the young people had everything to 
earn for themselves. She took part in the out-of-door life, and when it 
was necessary gave a "lift" at the barn, in the field, with the poultry or in 
the garden. In addition to her own household cares she became an ad- 
visor and helper among her neighbors. In all the difficulties of pioneer 
life Mr. and Mrs. Mayo laid aside each year something for travel and 
culture. The old school books were brought out and studied and with the 
first organization of the grange in that section Mr. and Mrs. Mayo became 
active leaders. Young people were gathered together, in the neighbor- 
hood for a reading club. Later with the beginning of the Chautauqua 

204 



1909] Books and Literature 205 

literary and scientific circle she began v/ith her husband and neighbors the 
courses as laid out by the Chautauqua Institution. Everywhere she tried 
to arouse her neighbors froin social, mental and moral inactivity. As her 
family cares lightened she came to the direct assistance of the supervisor 
of farmers' institutes, Mr. Kenyon L. Butterfield. Mrs. Mayo was em- 
ployed to give addresses before institutes and from 1896 to 1900 she pre- 
sided at the women's section of the state institute. Her long continued 
work in the grange both with the women and children had prepared the 
field and had given a skill in reaching her audiences which made her of 
unusual value in extension work. The story of Mrs. Mayo's life is an in- 
spiration to evenyone who would rouse the finer sensibilities of those bom 
and bred in country hom.es. Her life and work offer an illuminating his- 
tory of the re-making of the farm home life and of quickened mental 
development. — Martha Van Rensselaer. 

Diets in Tuberculosis, Principles and Economics, by Noel D. Bards- 
well, M.D. and John E. Chapman, M.R.C.S. Oxford University Press, 
New York City. 1908. Pp. 183. Price $2.50, postpaid. 

This is a report of work extending over seven years of investigation, 
chiefly in England. In this book the authors show that the knowledge of 
the diet to be used in tubercvdosis, has kept pace in the last few years with 
the changed m.ethods of the treatment of the disease. 

The authors state clearly the principles upon which a dietary for the 
person afflicted with tuberculosis should be constructed. They recom- 
mend that the physiological diet (viz., the diet which contains the exact 
amiount of carbon and nitrogen necessary to balance the amounts of these 
substances excreted for the individual in normal health and at rest) should 
first be ascertained, and that this should form the basis of the diet for the 
treatment. The amount of protein should then be increased 30% and the 
total value should be increased 30%. This represents a standard diet for 
the average consumptive man of 150 g. protein, 150 g. fat, 250 g. carbo- 
hydrates and about 3,000 calories. General directions for the arrange- 
ment of the dietary* follow, and the nutritive and economic value of each 
food material receives consideration. 

An interesting portion of the book is the discussion of the advantages 
and disadvantages of a meat free diet, which is concluded with a summary 
of the results of using each in sanatoriums. They recomm.end the use of 
the mixed diet with the use of a mioderate amount of meat. "In the case 
of individuals with normal appetite and digestion, the meat of an ordinary 
mixed diet can be altogether replaced by pulses, but such an entirely meat 
free diet is, on several grounds, not entirely satisfactory, and should not be 
used unless very strict economy is essential." 

The cost of the dietaries is taken up and definite suggestions in regard 
to a dietary for the poor are given, as well as recommendations for the 
dietary of the well-to-do. This should be a boon to settlement workers who 
have complained that the prescription of "milk and eggs" has usually been 
given with almost disregard to the fact that the patient cannot afford so 
expensive a diet. A table at the end of the book shows the composition of 



2o6 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

four diets of different costs suitable for the treatment of the consumptive. 
The nutritive value of these closely accords with the standard recom- 
mended, ranging in total caloric value from 3400 to 3700, and the protein 
about 150 g. The table in part is as follows: 
No. g. protein for one cent. Total caloric value. Cost per day (about). 

6.6 3722 23 

7-7 3545 -2° 

8.6 3452 -18 

9-7 3375 -15 

Fully as valuable as their recommendations for the diet in tuberculosis 
is their discussion of economic dietaries. It is interesting to note that 
their investigations led to the observations in the economic dietaries. 
Such a knowledge of the economic value of foods is of advantage to the 
person in health as well as the person afflicted with tuberculosis. The 
careful manner in which this has been considered can best be stated by 
quoting the conclusion of the chapter discussing the economics of diets. 
"We are of the opinion that in a diet of the working classes, the amount 
spent upon animal food should not exceed 70% of the total expenditure. 
Our dietetic work at the Munsley Cottage Sanatorium showed us that to 
construct a really cheap and efficient dietary, it is necessary to make a 
reasonable use of vegetables as a source of protein." 

The work detailed in the book has a wide application. It will be found 
of use to the patient as well as to the physician and to the householder as 
well as to the dietitian. — Ellen A. Huntington. 

A Manual of Personal Hygiene: Proper Living upon a Physiological 
Basis. By American Authors, edited by Walter M. Pyle, A.M., M.D., 
Member of the American Ophthalmological Society; Fellow of the Ameri- 
can Academy of Medicine, etc. Third edition revised and enlarged. 
Philadelphia and London. W. B. Saunders Company, 1907, 430 p. $1.50. 

The first edition of Pyle's Personal Hygiene appeared in 1901, and since 
that date this book has been one of the particularly useful authorities 
upon this subject. This third edition contains some revision of the 
former text, additional chapters on home gj^mnastics and domestic 
science; an appendix describing the simpler methods of Hydrotherapy, 
Thermotherapy and Mechanotherapy; and a section giving first aid treat- 
ment of emergencies. This compendium, written by various authors, 
contains much useful information, but, as is apt to be the case with 
material grouped from different sources, the work lacks the unity, and 
continuity which are very desirable in the treatment of such a subject as 
hygiene. 

The editor of the work, perhaps naturally, gives the most elaborate 
treatment to the hygiene of vision. This chapter, as well as some other 
chapters in the book, reflects the tendency of the specialist to magnify the 
importance of his own subject and to present his ^^ews in a way more 
technical and involved than is desirable for even a well educated lay 
reader. With the emphasis which is given to the hygiene of vision it is 
surprising and apparently quite inconsistent that the "paper used in the 



1909] Books and Literature 207 

book should be a calendered paper, difficult to look at, particularly by 
artificial light. 

Some of the chapters contain more anatomy and physiology than seems 
to be necessary for the real hygienic advice which is given. Some of the 
students of this subject of hygiene are rapidly becoming convinced that 
the effective presentation of hygienic instruction is not so much dependent 
upon the teaching or understanding of human anatomy and physiology as 
was formerly considered essential. The book in places becomes too 
technical and certain interesting aspects of hygiene are given scant, if any, 
attention. In the discussion of healthful exercises too much emphasis 
seems to be given to formal gymnastic movements and inadequate direc- 
tion and advice is furnished regarding the various forms of games and out- 
door activities which are suitable to individuals of different age and 
conditions of life. 

After all has been said with reference to apparent defects, one may 
heartily commend the book as one containing many sound precepts and 
helpful suggestions for the hygienic Ufe of the individual. — Thomas D. 
Wood. 

Tuberculosis and Its Prevention, issued by the Massachusetts Board of 
Education, Boston. 

This is a pamphlet of twenty-three pages giving practical suggestions to 
teachers regarding instruction as to tuberculosis and its prevention, and 
covers in outline form, the following topics: What tuberculosis is; 
history of tuberculosis; what tuberculosis does; how tuberculosis is 
spread; tuberculosis is preventable; how cured; early signs and symp- 
toms of consumption; the campaign against consumption in Massa- 
chusetts; reference to standard works on the subject. 

Medical Inspection, issued by the Massachusetts Board of Education, 
Boston. 

This is another pamphlet giving suggestions to teachers and others in 
education positions regarding medical inspection which, in some thirty 
pages, gives the sort of information a teacher should have regarding 
diseases and their symptoms; care of the teeth; ner\'ous troubles and 
some statements regarding school hygiene and proper school furniture. 
Wider circulation of booklets of this sort would have great usefulness. 
Departments of Education in other States and in the larger cities might 
well reprint these Massachusetts pamphlets. Women's clubs and local 
home economics associations may find it desirable to issue such pamphlets 
for local circulation. They should also consider the pamphlet publica- 
tions of the Public Health League of Boston. 

Bacteria in Relation to Country Life. Lipman. Macmillan, New York, 
1908. 486 pages. Price $1.50. 

This latest addition to the Rural Science Series, edited by Professor 
L. H. Bailey, is a very readable account of bacteria in their relation to 
everyday life and in particular to life and business in agricultural regions. 



2o8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Part I is a general biological account of the structure and physiology of 
bacteria, giving the facts necessary to understanding the life and influence 
of these organisms. Part II deals with the bacteria of air and water, 
especially emphasizing the relation of water supply to health and giving 
much information concerning contamination, purification and examina- 
tion of water. The next Part devotes three chapters to bacteria and 
sewage, and is especially interesting in its discussion of sewage-disposal. 
Parts IV and V discuss the bacteria in relation to soil fertility and the use 
of manures. Part VI and VII are concerned with bacteria in relation to 
milk, its products and other foods. Aside from the remarks in the 
general discussions, diseases with which most people associate bacteria, 
are left unmentioned. A startling exception on page 461 is the prominent 
head line reading "Diseases of Swine," but the chapter simply deals with 
fermented liquors. 

The book is not as well adapted to beginners as are certain other books, 
notably those by Conn. A reader familiar with some of the earlier volumes 
of the Rural Science Series v/ill miss the concrete application which has 
made many of the volumes attractive and practical. Principles and 
theories of bacterial life and action are well presented, but the concrete 
application to everyday country life needs further development. One 
illustration will make the reviewer's meaning clear: The chapters on 
sewage disposal are valuable for the sanitarian in charge of city sewage 
plants, but few people without access to other books would catch from 
the thirty pages on bacteria in sewage the important idea that bacterial 
purification is easil)'- within the reach of the farmer. However, while the 
chapters on sewage are essentially most interesting to the city sanitarian, 
those on soil are much more practical as viewed from the country stand- 
point. 

Many parts of the book will be useful for reference in connection with 
domestic science; but as a text-book it is not the best adapted to such 
courses, for the reason that there is too little direct appHcation to the 
practical problems of home economics, and also because in many practical 
problems of home economics the yeasts and molds must be considered 
along with the bacteria, in fact are frequently more important. The 
book seems best adapted to colleges of agriculture and to readers who are 
already somewhat familiar with the principles of bacteriology and general 
chemistry. — Maurice A. Bigelow, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Vitality, Fasting and Nutrition, by Hereward Carrington. Introduction 
by A. Rabagliati. Rebman Co., New York. Pp. 648. Price $5. 

This volume, together with Dr. Rabagliati's Air, Food and Exercise, 
raises important questions for the student of dietetics. It is very good 
for the seeker after truth to find other paths than those well trodden. It 
keeps alive the scientific spirit which holds a balance of serenity' in the 
midst of opposing theories. 

Fasting, as a curative and also a preventive measure, was strongly 
advocated by Dr. E. H. Dewey, and Dr. Robert Walter joined him in 
refusing to believe that food was the source of human energy. The 



1 909] Books and Literature 



209 



author says: "Now the stand I shall take is that food has but one func- 
tion in the human economy, the replacement of tissue, and that it supplies 
no heat and no energy whatever; that vital force is in no wise inter- related, 
or transmutable, into any other forces whatever." His belief is that the 
body is like an electric motor, charged from without through the brain and 
nervous system, and in six hundred pages he gives examples to confirm 
his opinion. — E. H. R. 

Food and Nutrition Laboratory Manual. Department of Household 
Science, Univ. of Illinois. By Isabel Bevier, Ph.M., and Susannah 
Usher. S.B. pp. 75. Revised Edition, 1908. Whitcomb & Barrows, 
Boston. Price 100. 

This book contains an excellent collection of well-tried experiments 
on food of interest to the students of Home Economics. The aim, as 
stated in the introduction has been well carried out : "In the preparation 
of this laboratory guide the intention has not been to devise new and 
original experiments, but rather to select from the large body of experi- 
ments now offered in physiological chemistry those which in themselves, 
or in their appHcations, have a more or less direct bearing upon the princi- 
ples governing the selection and preparation of food," The order — pro- 
teins, fats, carbohydrates, milk, meat, wheat, flour, bread, and digestion — 
may not appeal to all as best, but in using the book it is quite possible to 
modify the order. The use of the book as a text presupposes a knowledge 
of organic and analytical chemistry as well as a general knowledge of 
foods, but many experiments can be taken from the book and used by 
students with less training. It is especially valuable, perhaps, for ready 
reference. — Edna D. Day. 

Art and Economy in Home Decoration, by Mabel Tuke Priestman. 
pp.222. John Lane Company, New York. Price $1.50; Postpaid, $1.65. 

This is a useful handbook and will appeal equally to those about to 
furnish a house, and to that larger class who are desirous of securing the 
best and most artistic efrect with present possessions in the way of furni- 
ture. Miss Priestman has had considerable experience as an interior 
decorator and her book contains much helpful advice on "Color Schemes," 
"Treatment of Walls," and the "Choice and Arrangement of Furniture"; 
also on "What to Avoid" in the selection of rugs, portieres, bric-a-brac, 
and all the things that together go to the making of the "House Beauti- 
ful." The chapters on "Floor Staining," "Stencilling and Block Print- 
ing," and on "Homemade Rugs," are full of practical hints, and many 
readers will appreciate the chapter on "A Craftsman's Needlework." 
The book contains some good illustrations, together with suggestions on 
"How to Furnish a Cottage by the Sea, or a Suburban Home," and an 
interesting description of a house furnished and decorated by the united 
efforts of a talented family of craftsmen and women. — N. H. 

¥~ k Sewing Course. By Mary Schenck Woolman, B.S., Professor of 
Domestic Art in Teachers College, Columbia University, and Director of 
the Manhattan Trade School for Girls; 136 pages octavo, illustrated, 
price $1.50 net; interleaved, $3.50 net. PubHshed by Frederick A. 
Femald, 217 West Utica Street, Buffalo, N. Y. 



2IO The Journal of Home Economics [April 

The fourth edition of this book, which has long had a field or great use- 
fulness, was issued in the fall of 1908. It is primariyl of interest to 
teachers and to be used by them in training-schools where time does not 
permit the making of many applications of stitches. The writer makes 
it plain that, under no circumstances, should the subject be presented 
to children in this manner. The new edition contains many additional 
features, especially in relation to the teaching of the subject, and this 
makes it of great value to the teacher of sewing who aims to have her 
work broader than the old-time method of individual attention to the 
little child spending hours trying to produce fine stitches on uninteresting 
scraps of cloth or samplers. — Anna M. Cooley. 

The Structure of the Wool Fiber and Its Relation to the Use of Wool for 
Technical Purposes, by F. H. Bowman, D.Sc, Member of the Society of 
Chemical Industry, etc., published by the Macmillan Company, New York. 
Price $2.50. 

This exhaustive study of the wool fiber is an excellent book of reference 
for the textile teacher. Like the author's work on cotton, it deals only 
with the raw material. The most interesting chapters are : The Mechani- 
cal Structure and Composition of Wool; Action of Reagents on Wool; 
Methods of Analysis and Detection of Various Fibers. The illustrations, 
many of them colored, are very clear. The book is the most complete 
work published in England on the subject. — Nellie Crooks. 

"The Heritage of Dress" by W. M. Webb. Being notes on the History 
and Evolution of Clothes with Eleven Plates and 169 Figures in the 
Text. Published by E. Grant Richards, London, 1907. 

The Origin of Dress, Development of the Modern Coat, Buttons as 
Chronicles, Collars and Bands, are a few of the interesting headings which 
are treated in the various chapters. It is a most comprehensive work 
and is more than a book of reference for quaint customs and traditions. — 
Aletta V .W. Schenck. 

The Domestic Art Review. Teachers College, Columbia University, 

New York City. 

This is a quarterly magazine published by students in the Domestic 
Art Department of Teachers College. The first number, which appeared in 
November, 1908, contains an article on Domestic Art in the Elementary 
School by Anna M. Cooley, B.S., Instructor in Teachers College, Columbia 
University, which after discussing the theory of teaching Domestic Art in 
the elementary school, presents an outline of such work through the eight 
grades. 

The Laundry. Sanitation Series. The Cornell Reading Course for 
Farmers' Wives, Flora Rose. pp. 80. New York State College of 
Agriculture, Ithaca, N. Y. 1909. 

This pamphlet prepared for free distribution presents a discussion of 
Fabrics, and Methods, and descriptions of Laundry Machinery' in a clear, 
comprehensive inanner. The book contains illustrations of cotton and 
linen fibres, types of laundry irons, and shows two pictures, one of the 



1909] Books and Literature 211 

rural soap-maker, and the other, the modern laundry equipment. The 
latter picture shows hand machinery of a simple, mechanical type, easily 
understood by the housewife. The arrangement of material is well 
planned, starting with explanations of the fabrics, the reason for certain 
methods of washing and the good and bad results from different chemicals 
in connection with the washing of these fabrics. Then follows a more 
detailed account of soaps, water, starch, bluing, as well as several solvents 
and reagents. The chapter on stains does not give any new knowledge, 
except, perhaps, to people who have made no study of laundry methods. 
The classification of the stains has been made according to solvents instead 
of according to the stains which would prove a more useful arrangement 
were one in a hurry, or looking, perhaps with hands wet from the wash 
tub. Few^ housekeepers know enough of solvents to find the remedy for 
the stain by looking for the solvent of such a stain. 

Taken as a whole, the pamphlet is an easy, simple explanation of 
methods, apparatus and agents, and will be of great assistance to any 
housewife. — L. Ray Balderston. 

Reports of the President's Homes Commission, Message from the Pres- 
ident of the United States transmitting reports, etc. * * * 60th Con- 
gress, 2d Session, Senate Document No. 644, Washington, D.C., 1909. 
Pp.381. 

This Report is the result of a Commission appointed by President 
Roosevelt, of which Gen. George M. Sternberg was Chairman, to consider 
the improvement of living conditions in the District of Columbia. It com- 
prises (besides the general report and recommendations of the Commis- 
sion) the findings of two of its committees; the committee on Improve- 
ment of Existing Houses and Elimination of Alley Houses, of which Wil- 
liam H. Baldwin was Chairman; and the Committee on Social Better- 
ment, of which Dr. George M. Kober was Chairman. The work of these 
two committees, and especially the second, has brought together a wealth 
of reliable data, which ought to be spread broadcast through the country. 
The report of Dr. Kober's Committee on Social Betterment (pp. 27-38) 
makes up the bulk of the report and is comprised in three parts: Indus- 
trial Hygiene (pp. 29-107) Social Betterment (pp. 109-322) and the 
Appendices. 

In the section on Industrial Hygiene, there is a thorough consideration 
of the relation of daily occupation to health. Successive chapters treat 
of the occupations which incur special risk, including those in which the 
workers are exposed to irritating dust, infective matter in dust, poisonous 
dust, irritating or poisonous gases, organic gases, exposure to extremes of 
heat, constrained attitudes, over-exercise and exposure to machinery. 
Other chapters treat of the employment of women and children, special 
measures for the prevention of tuberculosis, measures for the protection 
of wage earners, including the responsibility of the Government, the 
employer, the general public and the employee himself. The division of 
the Report devoted to Social Betterment, includes the following chapters: 
Chap. I. — How to keep well and capacitated for work; Chap. II. — Ali- 



212 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

mentation and foods; Chap. III. — The causes and prevention of infectious 
diseases; Chap. IV. — Infantile mortality; Chap. V. — The prevention of 
permanent disabilities in children; Chap. VI. — The health of the city of 
Washington; Chap. VII. — Sexual hygiene and prophylaxis; Chap. VIII. 
— The tobacco habit; Chap. IX. — The alcohol question; Chap. X. — The 
drug habit; Chap. XI. — Sociological study of 1,251 families; Chap. XII. — 
The business relations of wage-earners; Chap. XIII. — The scale of wages 
and the cost of living; Chap. XVI. — Supression of usury; Chap. XV. — 
How to benefit the poor in the slums. 

This Report has been called by some one "For the topics it covers, the 
best textbook in the field for home economics teaching." Certainly it 
gives in compact form, what one would search many books for, besides 
presenting much new material. Teachers of hoine economics, and other 
persons thoughtful for home betterment, should write to their United 
States Senators for this Report. — B. R. A. 

Report of the Country Life Commission, U. S. Senate Document No. 

705, 60th Congress, Second Session, 65 pp. 

Pres. Roosevelt's special message to Congress and this Report have been 
amply reviewed in the newspapers and magazines. Under the heading 
Need of a Redirected Education the following is significant: "The subject 
of paramount importance in our correspondence and in the hearings is 
education. In every part of the United States there seems to be one 
mind, on the part of those capable of judging, on the necessity of redirect- 
ing the rural schools. There is no such unanimity on any other subject. 
It is remarkable with what similarity of phrase the subject has been dis- 
cussed in all parts of the country before the commission. Everywhere 
there is a demand that education have relation to living, that the schools 
should express the daily life, and that in the rural districts they should edu- 
cate by means of agriculture and country life subjects. It is recognized that 
all difficulties resolve themselves in the end into a question of education." 
* ♦ * "The real needs of the people are not alone the arts by which 
they make a living, but the whole range of their customary activities. As 
the home is the center of our civilization, so the home subjects should be 
the center of every school." 

Under the heading Woman's Work on the Farm; "There is the most 
imperative need that domestic, household, and health questions be 
taught in all schools. The home may well be made the center of rural 
school teaching." Well said! The whole report will repay careful read- 
ing. It may be obtained of your Senator if the supply is not exhausted. — 
M. LeBosquet. 



MEMBERS OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

SUPPLEMENTARY LIST. 

The following list of names contains the names of about one hundred 
persons whose names should have appeared as original members in 
the February Journal. A package of cards containing their names was 
lost in the mail and this accounts for the omission. The list also 
includes persons who have joined the Association since the February 
number of the Journal appeared. It seems right to consider all of 
these persons as original members of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

TEACHERS OF COOKING IN NEW YORK CITY. 

High Schools. 
Crane, Emma H., 478 William St., E. Orange, N. J. 
Dean, Nellie, 221 West 141 St., New York City. 
Dowd, Mary T., 22 Pierrepont St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Ikelheimer, Minnie, 117 East 56th St., New York City. 
Mclntyre, Edith D., 100 Momingside Ave., New York City. 
Perkins, Fannie D., 372 DeGraw St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Rushmore, Ellen R., 196 Jeralemon St., Brooklyn, 
Stone, Mabel, 147 West iii St., New York City. 
Willard, Florence, 17 Meade Ave., Passaic, N. J. 

Elementary Schools in Manhattan. 
Austin, Ida McL., i West 87 St., New York City. 
Bedell, Eva G., 125 Wadsworth Ave., New York City. 
Clare, Teresa A., 5 West i22d St., New York City. 
Chrisman, M. Bertha, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Cohen, Sophie, 156 West 130 St., New York City. 
Daley, Agnes, 430 Lafayette St., New York City. 
Dean, Sarah E., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Dike, Margaret L., 19 East 41 St., New York City. 
Dillon, Bridie M., 99 East 81 St., New York City. 
Duff, Mary E.. 434 William St., East Orange, N. J. 
Cutler, Mrs. Anna R., 172 Remsen St., Brooklyn. 
Hyams, Sarah, 628 West 147 St., New York City. 
Kalbfleisch, Eleanor, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Landm, Louise, 365 Park Ave., Paterson, N. J. 
Lin\nlle, Alice, 125 Wadsworth Ave., New York City. 
Lillie, Dorothy S., 131 East 45th St., New York City. 
Low, Clara L., 461 West 147 St., New York City. 
Marriotte, Louise C, 34 West 12 St., New York City. 
Martin, Mildred G., 49 New York Ave., Brooklyn. 
Millspaugh, Dorothy, 247 West 45 St., New York City. 
MacNachtan, Ethel, 414 West 118 St., New York City. 
Mayer, Hattie, 55 East 118 St., New York City. 
Oakey, Grace H, 12 East 83 d St., New York City. 
Ober, Alice M., 335 West 57th St., New York City. 

213 



2 14 The Journal of Ho)ne Economics [April 

Perham, Bertha, 524 West 123d St., New York City. 
Pond, Harriet, 136 Irving Place., Jersey City. 
Riley, Anna M., 316 West 116 St., New York City. 
Roe, Ada, 50 Amherst St., East Orange, N. J. 
Roe, Winifred, 606 Lexington Ave., New York City. 
Saruya, Dona, 171 East 81 St., New York City. 
Sinsheimer, Eleanor, 76 West 86th St., New York City. 
Smith, Maud E., 195 Claremont Ave., New York City. 
Smith, Cerelle, 4 Toledo Ave., Elmhurst, L. I. 
Taylor, Bessie, 430 Lafayette St., New York City. 
Thompson, Elizabeth, 151 West 99 St., New York City. 
Thompson, Marion, 224 St. James PL, Brooklyn. 
Toll, Florence M., 12 Randolph St., Passaic, N. J. 
Utley, Helen A., 42 Westervelt Ave., New Brighton, S. L 

Hunter, Marjorie, 408 West 24th St., New York City. 

Haas, Ella, 12 Prospect Drive, Yonkers, N. Y. 

McCormack, Mary G., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 

Moseley, May, 437 Hancock St., Brooklyn. 

Vail, Mabel H., 99 Mercer St., Jersey City. 

Wetmore, Amoret S., 741 loth Ave.. New York City. 

Wilson, Mary, 755 East 168 St., New York City. 

Woolson, Sarah, 51 West 106 St., New York City. 

Westfall, Martha, 601 West 148 St., New York City. 

Wight, Millie M., 501 West 121 St., New York City. 

Zaponne, Jesuina, 35 West 124 St., New York City. 

Bronx. 

Bates, Elizabeth C, 661 East 170 St., New York City. 

Brockman, May E., 427 East 135 St., New York City. 

Child, Jessie D., ror East 176 St., New York City. 

Christian, Catherine M., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 

Gorton, Harriett, Suburban PI. and Boston Rd., New York City. 

Holt, Margaret L., Woodycrest Ave., and 162 St., New York City. 

Knox, Ruth, Harris Harbor, Mich. 

Maeder, Emily L., 304 East 120 St., New York City. 

Nevins, Nanette, 1436 Crotona Pk., E., New York City. 

Ricketson, Ermina, 599 East 164 St., New York City. 

Russell, EUzabeth, 423 West 1 18 St., New York City. 

Schauffler, Clara E., 2862 Marion Ave., Bedford Pk., New York City. 

Wyman, Mary L., 505 W. 122 St., New York City. 

Chamberlain, Nina L., 500 West 144 St., New York City. 

Brooklyn. 
Adams, Josephine, 4th & Ovington Aves., Brooklyn. 
Bates, Sarah L., 4 Toledo Ave., Elmhurst, L. L 
Bymhold, Margaret, 198 Greene Ave., Brooklyn. 
Carothere, Jean Mrs., 1154 49th St., Brooklyn. 
Cook, Lillian, Orange, N. J. 



1909] Supplementary List 215 

Campbell, Mabel, 344 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Clem, Isabelle G., 153 Lefferts Pi., Brooklyn. 

Crombie, Estelle C, 127 Prospect Place, Brooklyn. 

DeGore, Henrietta, 271 Clinton Ave., Newark, N. J. 

Dorman, Jessie (226 V.Buren St.), 11 1 Park PI., Brooklyn. 

Drummond, Grace, 104 So. lo St., Newark, N. J. 

Ellis, Charlotte, 366 Greene Ave., Brooklyn. 

Ericson, Wilhelmina H., 128 So. Elliott PL, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Gamgee, Edith, 497 8th St., Brooklyn. 

Gregg, Mary, 306 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn. 

Hess, Emma C, 258A Emerson PL, Brooklyn. 

Hoeg, Mrs. Gertrude S., 106 Hancock St., Brooklyn. 

Huggins, Isabelle S., 607 Carleton Ave., Brooklyn. 

Jameson, Jennie D., 195 Washington St., Brooklyn. 

Kelly, Anastasia, 99 Mercer St., Jersey City, N. J. 

Latham, Florence, 97 Clark St., Brooklyn. 

Perry, Mabel, 268 Ryerson St., Brooklyn. 

Perry, K. Willa, 268 Ryerson St., Brooklyn. 

Rogers, Clara E., 33 Winthrop St., Brooklyn. 

Rees, Mrs. Mabel L., 57 Clifton PL, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Rose, Mabel L, 429 Sterling PL, Brooklyn. 

Skelton, Christine P., 296 6th Ave., Brooklyn. 

Stanton, Josephine, 378 Greene Ave., Brooklyn. 

Tainter, Grace, 556 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn. 

Widmer, Marion M., 316 State St., Brooklyn. 

Welling, Mary M., 478 Washington Ave., Brooklyn. 

deForest, Constance, 262 Gates Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Queens. 
Beck, Marie L., 32 Hanover Ave., Elmhurst, L. I. 
Becker, Irene, 131 St. James PL, Brooklyn. 
Clark, Anna, 501 Lockwood St., Astoria, L. I. 
Simmons, Mar>- P., 46 Park Ave.,Yonkers. 
Story, Helen M., 1447 Pacific St., Yonkers. 
Strong, Sarah P., 239 Amity St., Flushing, L. I. 
VanHom, Flora H., 229 Van Buren St., Brooklyn. 
Wetherill, Edith K., 289 Hillside Ave., Jamaica, L. I. 
Williams, Margaret, 1447 Pacific St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Richmond. 
Downing, Jessie, loi Crescent Ave., New Brighton, S. I. 
James, Florence G., 42 Westervelt Ave., New Brighton, S. I. 
Nichols, Mary H., loi Crescent Ave., New Brighton, S. I. 
Murray, Florence P., 97 Clark St., New Brighton, N. Y. 
Cohen, Amelia, 2210 Aqueduct Ave., E., New York City. 

Feinberg, Isabelle, 116 West 71 St., New York City. 
Huckel, Eugenia, 231 Ryerson St. , Brooklyn. 



2 1 6 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Latham, Florence, 215 Main St., Oneida, N. Y. 
Smith, Florence, Factoryville, Pa. 



OTHER ADDITIONAL MEMBERS. 

Atwood, Miss AHce P., Whittier Hall, Teachers College, New York City. 

Aylward, Emma B., 277 Ashland Boulevard, Chicago, 111. 

Balch, Emily G., Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 

Barlow, Mrs. Jennie C, 305 E. John St., Champaign, 111. 

Bates, Victoria W., The Mount Royal, Baltimore, Md. 

Bennis, Miss Bessie, State College, Penn. 

Blenkhom, Cora, Canning, Kings Co., Nova Scotia. 

Bower, Sarah E., North Adams, Mass. 

Briscoe, Mrs. Charles H., Thompson ville. Conn. 

Brooks, Mrs. J. H., St. Johnsburg, Vt. 

Campbell, Matilda G., 1909 Parkwood Ave., Toledo, Ohio. 

Carpenter, Mrs. George O., 12 Portland Place, St. Louis, Mo. 

Carpenter, Miss Mary L., 125 Church St., Saratoga Springs, N. Y. 

Case, Miss Bertha, 510 Ravine Ave., Peoria, 111. 

Coleman, Mary E., Rush ville, Ind. 

Corbett, Miss Florence R., Dept. PubHc Charities, Foot East 26th St., 

New York City. 
Cooper, Blanche, 127 E. 3d North, Logan, Utah. 
Craig, Agnes Houston, College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Dean, Sarah E., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 

Downing, Bessie, Richmond Building, Staten Island, N. Y. 

Dunning, Christine D., Pittsford, Monroe County, N. Y. 

Elliott, Clara E., Hamilton, Ontario, Normal School, Canada. 

Ellis, Miss Sarah, 30 Koum Machi, Mita, Shiba, Tokyo, Japan. 

Elmer, Alice, 6209 Franklin Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Fletcher, Mr. Horace, 325 East 31st St., New York City. 

Fuller, Miss Grace, Mich. State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Mich. 

Gingles, Mrs. M. M., Saginaw High School, Saginaw, Mich. 

Goodrich, Miss Henrietta I., (To May ist). 2 Acorn St., Boston ,';^Mass. 
(May I St to Nov. ist). Georgetown, Mass., R. F. D. No. 2. 

Harris, Agnes Ellen, Douglas, Georgia. 

Hartman, E. Grace, 340 Pine St., Providence, R. I. 

Hogan, Miss Grace E., 1761 West 25th St., Los Angeles, Calif . 

Homer, Josephine W., 22 N. Franklin St., Titusville, Pa. 

Hoodless, Mrs. Adelaide, East Court, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 

Hunneman, Frances H., Mt. Pleasant Ave., Roxbury, Mass. 

Institute, Lewis, Mission St., Chicago, 111. 

Jackson, Miss Rowena, 22 Essex St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Keeney, Mrs. Willard F., 285 Lafayette St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 

Kilboume, Alice M., Bradford Academy, Bradford, Mass. 

Kirk , Alice G . , Cleveland , Ohio . 

Kysor, Mabel, 4636 Center Avenue, Pittsburg, Penn. 



I9091 Supplementary List 217 

Land, Mrs. Frank, 314 N. 12th St., Richmond, Ind. 

Leighton, S. A. S. ,East Boston Station, Boston, Mass. 

Library, Newark Free, Edward T. Ward, Treas. 

Lies, Eugene T., City and County Buildings, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Mackenzie, Agnes H., Central High School, Detroit, Mich., Warren and 

Cass Ave. 
Macmillan, Nealina, Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Ontario, Canada. 
McKay, Catharine J., La Claire Hall, Garry St. Winnipeg, Man. 
Metcalf, Miss Martha L., 2022 No. Senate Avenue, Indianapolis. Ind. 
Michel, Miss Jennie, 159 West St., Dubuque, Iowa. 
Milner, Sarah, Anna Jaques Hospital, Newburyport, Mass. 
Miller, Miss Kate E., Industrial Institute & College, Columbus, Miss. 
Minot, James J. M. D., 138 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass. 
Mortimer, Miss Mabel, Macdonald College, P. O., Quebec, Canada. 
Moore, Mrs. Gales P., High St., Bristol, Conn. 
Moore, Isabel, 1801 California St., San Francisco, Calif. 
Murray, Miss Charlotte, Shaw University, Raleigh, N. C. 
Nichols, Mary, The Richmond Building, New Brighton, Staten Island, 

New York. 

Records, Mrs. W. P., Lawton, Oklahoma. 

Renn, Miss Eliza Luella, 417 West 120th St., or Teachers College, Box 892. 

Sanda, Miss Lucinda T., 98 Sherman Ave., Medford, Mass. 

Schussler, Amy, 94 Lawrence St., New York City. 

Sharkland Leah, Protestant Episcopal Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa., Front 

St. and Lehigh Ave. 
Shute, Mrs. H. Josephine, P. O. Box, 566, Hayward, Cal. 
Snook. Esther L., Teachers College, New York City. 
Starbuck, Rolena, 303 West Adams St., Muncie, Ind. 
Stewart, Lena Belle, 2613 Olive St., Kansas City, Mo. 
Stickland, Miss Eunice, Mechanics Institute, Rochester, N. Y. 
Stoner, Miss Abbie, 434 N. 33d St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
University of Wyoming, Dep't of Home Economics, Laramie, Wy. 
Van Meter, Miss Anna R., University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 
Warner, Margaret S. (Mrs. J. B.) 216 Beacon St., Boston, Mass. 
Welch, Mrs. M. D., Carmel-by-the Sea, CaUf. 
Wilkins, E. H., Middletown, Conn. 

Williams, Miss Rebecca, 12 18 Laurel Ave,, Knoxville, Tenn. 
Wilson, Miss Wealtha, 425 West ri8th St., New York City. 
Wilson, Lillian M., The Jacob Tome Institute, Port Deposit, Maryland. 



TH E 

Journah/Home Economics 

Vol. I. JUNE, 1909 No. 3 

WOMAN'S PUBLIC WORK FOR THE HOME AN ETHICAL 
SUBSTITUTE FOR COOPERATIVE HOUSEKEEPING. 

Caroline Hunt. 

If the history of household industrialism had been written we 
should find in its later chapters a record of repeated experiments 
in cooperation. These experiments have never been successful; 
one after another they have gone down to disaster. The term 
"Cooperative Housekeeping" is in fact so associated with the 
idea of failure that it has been abandoned even by those who are 
still in sympathy with the movement and who still hope for the 
final realization of its ideals. In the meantime, the immediate 
and practical purpose of these experiments and the only purpose 
which the public in general has understood and appreciated, that 
of lessening the amount of work necessary for housekeeping, has 
been accomplished by other means. These means may be 
described as the delegation of household activities to specialists as 
distinguished from the "pooling" of household tasks which was 
the dream of the advocates of cooperative housekeeping. 

In looking back over a residence of 3 5 years in a small western 
city, it is clearly seen that during that time the housekeepers 
have passed many of their industries over to municipal boards 
and to private business corporations and firms. To the former, 
they have given the work of drawing water and of disposing of 
sewage, garbage and other forms of household waste. To the 
latter they have entrusted the tasks of heating and lighting their 
houses and supplying them with fuel for cooking. Public 
laundries have been established and the variety of cooked foods 
and ready-made clothes on the market has greatly increased. 
Other progressive towns have m.oved in the same direction and 
the work necessary for housekeeping has in all parts of the 
country been greatly reduced. 



219 



2 20 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

It would, however, be unfair to the more intelligent and public- 
spirited advocates of cooperative housekeeping to say that the 
benefits which have come by this process of delegation of house- 
hold labor to specialists are a substitute for those which they 
hoped to secure by the "pooling" process. This is true whether 
we consider the immediate practical reforms which they sought or 
the more indirect moral and spiritual benefits which they antici- 
pated. Economy of energy was with them merely a stepping 
stone by means of which they hoped to reach better methods and 
higher standards in housework. Nor was the equitable distribu- 
tion of benefits, which is the fundamental principle of all forms 
of cooperation, an end in itself. In the effort to secure such 
distribution they hoped to develop in themselves some of the 
best and most desirable of human qualities; adaptability, 
tolerance, generosity and helpfulness. They hoped that their 
cooperative enterprises would be a school in which they could 
learn and develop the gentle art of mutual aid. They saw that 
cooperation was successful in the home and productive of 
valuable traits of character. It was, however, operative within 
very narrow limits and they hoped that cooperative housekeeping 
would extend the area without destroying the spirit which per- 
vaded it. They hoped that it would create an environment 
wider than the individual home within which a premium would 
be placed, as it is in family life, upon those characteristics which 
draw men together and enable them to work harmoniously for 
the common good, upon trustfulness, unselfishness and for- 
bearance. 

Enlargement of a cooperative area, however, brings with it a 
multiplication of the problems involved, and it is evident that at 
present human beings are unable to overcome the difficulties 
attendant upon the voluntary association of family groups for 
housekeeping purposes. They lack both the goodness and the 
wisdom. This it seems clear we must admit, even those of us 
who are sure that after we have become sufficiently good and 
sufficiently wise we shall not wish to experiment in cooperation. 
We must admit that we are not good enough unless we wish to 
undervalue unselfishness, the spirit of self-sacrifice and mutual 
helpfulness and the Vv'illingness to compromise and make mutual 
concessions in the interests of the greatest good of the greatest 
number, for cooperative housekeeping wouH certainly put a 



1909] \Vo7nan's Public Work for the Home 221 

larger strain upon these virtues than our present methods of 
living. 

That we are not wise enough to enter extensively upon tech- 
nical cooperative enterprises is shown by the fact that we are 
prone to confuse equitable with equable distribution of benefits 
and to adopt the latter which though easy is thoroughly unfair 
except, it should be added, where little children are concerned. 
We all, it may be conceded, have come to believe that all children 
should be given equally good starts in life, equally pure air, equal 
access to the sunlight, equally nourishing and pure food, and 
equally thorough education and training. But after people are 
grown and have developed different degrees of industry, ability 
and talent, their rewards must, in some measure, be apportioned 
to their contributions to the common life. The more a person 
puts into a cooperative enterprise, the more of thought or of 
labor, the more he should in fairness get out of it and it is doubtful 
if we are yet wise enough to measure either what he contributes 
or what he should receive in return. 

We need goodness, knowledge and judgment before we can 
make cooperation successful. But added goodness, knowledge 
and judgment will come only with experience. We can grow 
good enough and wise enough to cooperate only by putting our- 
selves at every opportunity into positions which will develop 
within us the talents and the virtues which make successful 
cooperation and united action possible. We can learn to work 
together only by working together; to cooperate only by co- 
operating. 

In view of the world's need for developing among all people 
the power of association, certain features and conditions of 
women's work for the home assume peculiar significance. When 
they gave up household industries and began to buy the com- 
modities which were used by the families, women moved from the 
very limited but purely cooperative environment of the home 
into an enormously wide environment in which competition 
rather than cooperation is the controlling motive and in which 
those qualities which drive people apart rather than those which 
draw them together are developed. This is true except so far as 
they have delegated their duties to the government. All 
municipal enterprises, water and sewage systems, hospitals, play 
grounds, boards of public works, boards of health, public schools, 



22 2 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

in fact all public institutions which help the home to keep clean, 
to ward off disease and to perform its important function of 
education, are in a sense cooperative. The housekeeper who 
sees that the work which these institutions are doing is really her 
own work, which she has merely delegated to them, finds a field 
for cooperation with other housekeepers who have delegated their 
labors to the same institutions. When the women of the town 
work together to secure for all homes, those of the poor, the 
ignorant and the unenlightened as well as those of the rich, the 
uneducated and the wise, the benefits of pure milk, for example, 
or clean markets, they create for themselves an environment 
which is similar to the old-fashioned home. There work and 
cooperation are the watchwords ; there the welfare of the home 
is the end in view; there adaptability, tolerance and considera- 
tion are demanded; there unselfishness and the spirit of self- 
sacrifice are developed. 

But the majority of household industries are delegated not to 
public institutions, but to private corporations and business 
firms. The lighting and heating of houses, the supply of hot 
water from central plants, pneumatic cleaning, laim.dry work, the 
spinning and weaving of cloth and the making of garments, the 
curing of meat, the making of butter, are now the tasks of the 
business world. In this world the spirit of mutual aid does not 
prevail. On the other hand all the profit which comes from 
production on a large scale becomes a bone of contention between 
producer and consumer. In the business world there are number- 
less opportunities to be kind, thoughtful, generous and helpful, 
but these are the incidents of business, not business itself. In 
business itself one man's interests are set against another's. It is 
into this kind of a world that most of our household industries 
have been carried. 

Women, therefore, have moved into an environment in which 
they must seek opportunities for cooperative action, instead of 
finding them as a matter of course, as they formerly did, when 
their lives were passed almost exclusively in their own homes. 
Opportunities for united action may be found at present in the 
development and maintenance of municipal institutions, hospi- 
tals, play grounds, reading rooms, — it v.-ould be well if one could 
add central heating plants, central pneumatic cleaners, bakeries, 
laundries and dairies. They are found also in the need for im- 



1909] Woman's Public Work for the Home 223 

provement in the quality of work done by municipalities. We 
need to unite to secure more efficient inspection of dairies, mar- 
kets and bakeries, better smoke laws, better care of the streets, 
speedier and more satisfactory disposal of household waste, 
better protection of the home against infectious diseases, better 
building laws. 

Such work is being effectively done in many places through 
departments of the women's clubs and through civic leagues, 
hospital, playground and public-school art associations, and 
child-labor committees. One city is said to have gone so far as to 
establish a Children's Bureau to promote the interests of children 
in its locality just as the National Children's Bureau is expected 
to promote the interests of all the children of the county. 

Still further opportunities for cooperation are to be found in 
the establishment of employment agencies and women's ex- 
changes and particularly in the effort to secure for all who work 
for the home, in public or in private, proper conditions of work 
and fair remuneration. "The Consiimer's League," "The Wo- 
man's Trade Union League" and "The League for the Protection 
of Immigrant Women" have these ends in view. It is only by 
activities like those represented by the associations mentioned, 
that spiritual benefits of our present system may be had 
comparable with those which intelligent advocates of cooperative 
housekeeping sought. Only through work of this kind can we 
add improvement in methods and standards to economy of 
energy, as they hoped to do ; only thus can we secure the develop- 
ment of character which they anticipated. 

The relation between the material and spiritual benefits of 
united action for the improvement of home conditions is shown 
by the characters of various kinds of women who illustrate the 
different attitudes which it is possible to assume toward public 
work for the home. In one class, we have women whose only 
thought is to get out of v.^ork, women who have taken advantage 
of all kinds of modem labor saving schemes and devices, who 
have given up all household industries as fast as opportunities 
presented themselves and who have made no effort to meet the 
responsibilities which are coming to the home under its changed 
economic and industrial conditions. These women are at 
present among our most interesting and unpromising citizens. 



224 



The Journal of Home Economics [June 



In the next class arc the women who see that their personal 
safety and comfort call upon them to unite with other house- 
keepers to combat the evils which arise from present methods of 
production. These women may from purely selfish motives 
take part in campaigns for better milk and purer food, and in 
spite of the selfishness of their aims, they get breadth of wisdom 
and experience in public work which make them interesting and 
valuable members of society if not public spirited citizens. 

Finally there are the women who are uniting with others in 
public work for the home, not for the benefit and protection of 
themselves and their families alone, but for the benefit and pro- 
tection of all. These women are finding a field for disinterested 
service larger than the private house but including it. This 
broad field of labor rather than the modem home alone is the 
logical successor to the home of the past with its multiple pro- 
ductive activities and those who work in it and not those who 
confine their interests within the four walls of home are the logical 
successors to the house-mothers of old. In this field are per- 
formed not only the end processes in the production of household 
commodities as in the home of today but as in the home of yester- 
day all those processes by means of which these commodities are 
made from raw materials. Here are met all those who labor for 
the home whether within its own narrow borders or in factories, 
offices and public institutions. Here the housewife learns to 
know those to whom she is indebted for the goods she consumes 
in her home; here she is able to work with and for these public 
household servants. 

If the usefulness of various classes of citizens is indicated by 
the demands which are made upon them for assistance and 
advice, the women who are accepting the responsibilities of this 
broad field of labor and who are seizing its opportunities are 
growing rapidly in power and in capacity for service. They 
seem to have created for themselves an environment which calls 
for and develops the best qualities of mind and heart. Perhaps 
this environment is ethically at least a substitute for cooperative 
housekeeping. 

Prayer and provender delays no man's journey. — Old Proverb 

The fate of nations depends on how they are fed. 

Plain food is quite enough for me. — Oliver Wendell Holmes. 



HOME PROBLEMS FROM ONE WOMAN'S POINT OF VIEW 

A writer in the Atlantic Monthly, under the title, From An 
Average Woman , gives expression to some views regarding home 
problems which she believes are those of many average women, 
— that is women of experience and training, but with a pref- 
erence for home life rather than for public life though possessed 
of sympathy with movements pertaining to the public welfare. 
The article is written from the point of view of one who secured a 
well-rounded education by obtaining domestic matters at home 
and academic education at a modem high-school and one of the 
New England colleges for women. 

"I have no quarrel with my Alma Mater, as has one of my 
contemporaries with hers, because she did not teach me 'that if 
one is able to afford two vegetables with one's joint, they had 
better not be rice and potatoes.' I learned that in my mother's 
home before I went to college, together with other domestic 
accomplishments, including the making of bread and the darning 
of stockings." 

Her college work in the classics she appreciates for more than 
its mere discipline : 

"All along the way I received little flashes of inspiration and 
illumination which enrich and sweeten life for me even to-day." 

College laboratory work particularly that in biology and 
botany is appreciated for the light it has given on physiological 
problems, and "knowledge of myself which has resulted in a 
sounder body and a saner mind. Quite aside from this, college 
increased my earning power, my sense of responsibility, my joy 
in literature and in life." 

For five years after graduation the writer states that she was a 
business woman and very happy in her work, but also that she 
has been far more happy in her five years of married life, and 
more independent than when in business. 

"I have a housekeeping allowance and one for my personal 
needs, as regular as my salary used to be; I have the control of 
my time, my work is not so monotonous, and my workshop is what 



^Atlantic Monthly, 103 (1909), No. 4, pp. 574-576. 

225 



226 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

I choose to make it. I do not feel like a 'paid housekeeper,' nor 
'an unpaid domestic' 

"Now for my hypothesis: I believe that housework is an 
interesting and worthy craft, and that the majority of women, 
those who are not fitted for a career, enjoy it, or would if it were 
considered fashionable. I believe that housekeeping is a stimulat- 
ing profession. I beHeve that home-making is an art. I beheve 
that motherhood is a divine mission. All these are platitudes; 
is there any woman, out of print, who really has a different opinion ? 

"I believe that marriage is a life-partnership, to be entered 
upon only where there is mutual liking as well as love. . . 

"It seems to me only reasonable that a young woman should 
not marry unless she is both able and willing to keep house ; even 
as she studies typewriting and shorthand before taking a position 
as stenographer. There are schools of domestic science reason- 
able in price, if one cannot learn at home. 

"I believe — and here I may be considered a rank heretic, even 
by other average women — that housewives do not have a mo- 
nopoly of the drudgery of life. My personal definition of drudgery 
is compulsory work that one does not know how to do well. . 

"Nor is the varied routine of the work of a house more monoton- 
ous than heating one iron bar after another, hour after hour, 
day after day, for instance; or adding up one column of figures 
after another. To my mind, who have tried both, the reading 
and editing of manuscripts grows monotonous and wearing 
sooner than the doing of all my 'own work' without a maid. . . 

"In the conduct of my household I have dealings with the 
Chinaman, the Italian, the Greek, the African, the sons and 
daughters of Ireland and Germany. All the problems of race 
and creed are at my back door, and I am willing to follow where 
they lead; but if I do, and if I continue to make old age less a 
barren waste for the aged in my home, and start the young in the 
right way to independence and happiness, and share my home 
with all the relatives and friends who have a claim upon my 
hospitality, am I neglecting the 'real work of the world'? I ask 
in all humility, for myself and for all the average women I 
represent, who rejoice with me that there are women of larger 
leisure and greater ability to espouse the cause of the working girl, 
and the child who should not work, and to secure better condi- 
tions in town and state. ' ' 



U. S. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS AS SOURCES 

OF INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS OF 

HOME ECONOMICS. 

C. F. Langworthy, 

U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

It is safe to say that very few persons realize the extent and 
variety of the publications which are issued by the different 
branches of the United States General Government, or have any 
adequate idea of the large amount of valuable data upon a wide 
range of topics included in these publications. 

From time to time special lists of U. S. Government documents 
have appeared, and at the present time full lists and indexes of 
current publications are issued. It is to be regretted, however, 
that there are no entirely adequate indexes of the earlier publica- 
tions of Government documents as a whole. 

In 1885 Poore's Descriptive Catalogue of the Government 
Publications of the United States, September 5, 1774, to March 4, 
1 88 1, was published. The volume contains titles of publications 
arranged chronologically and an author and subject index. 
Though this work is of very great interest and value the material 
included is to som.e extent selected and the classification naturally 
makes no special effort to include Home Economics topics as the 
subject has been developed very largely since this work was 
undertaken. 

The Comprehensive Index to the Publications of the United 
States Government, 188 1- 1893, by Ames, which was published in 
1905, is essentially a continuation of Poore's Index, though the 
method of arranging the material alphabetically makes it much 
m.ore useful. 

In 1902 the Superintendent of Documents published Tables of 
and Annotated Index to the Congressional Series of United States 
Public Documents, which is a valuable and useful check list of 
Government documents. To a certain extent the material 
included is selected. This publication was followed by the 
Document Catalogue referred to later. 

The fact that the Government documents are so numerous and 
so varied in their subject-matter makes it difficult for librarians or 

227 



22 8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

individuals to classify and arrange the publications in such a way 
that the contents are easily made known and accessible, and 
doubtless this is one reason why they are not more generally con- 
sulted as works of reference. Another reason which has been 
suggested for a lack of appreciation of Government documents 
is the fact that for many years they were very generally distrib- 
uted free of cost and it seems to be a failing of human nature to 
consider that anything which is given away cannot have very 
much value. Within recent years there has been a decided 
change of policy and a great variety of publications are now sold. 

With a few exceptions U. S. Government documents of all 
kinds are published at the Government Printing Office in Wash- 
ington. The list of documents includes a wide variety, ranging 
from the Congressional Record which appears daily and records 
in detail all business carried on by both Houses of Congress, to 
special bulletins, annual reports, periodicals, and many other 
kinds of publications. These documents are prepared by the 
different departments of the General Government, by Congress, 
by special commissions, and in other ways, and when ready for 
publication are submitted in due form to the Public Printer who 
is the head of the Government Printing Office and may be 
termed the Government Publisher. 

With the exception of certain series of popular bulletins and 
other publications of general interest the Government publica- 
tions are intended for sale. The price asked is merely sufficient 
to cover the cost of publication. In this respect the United 
States follows a plan adopted by a number of other nations. 
Thus, the so-called "Bluebooks" and other public documents of 
Great Britain are with few exceptions sold and not distributed 
gratis. There is this difference, however, that in Great Britain 
the sale of Government publications is in the hands of private 
firms designated for the purpose, whereas in the United States a 
public official, the Superintendent of Documents, supervises the 
storage and sale of public documents. 

The United States Government is unusually generous in that 
the price of documents is so low that they are really within the 
reach of almost any person who may need them. It is also the 
policy to send publications free of cost in special cases to actual 
workers in many fields of inquiry. 



1909] U. S. Government Publications 229 

Another important way of bringing publications into the hands 
of the public free of cost is the legislative enactments which pro- 
vide for depositing Government documents in public libraries 
throughout the country. 

Under proper restrictions Government documents are for- 
warded by mail without payment of postage, the use of this 
franking privilege being provided for by act of Congress ; viola- 
tions of its proper use being punishable by fine. 

In connection with the question of the sale of documents and 
method of purchase, the following quotations from information 
circulated by the Superintendent of Documents are of interest : 

"The Superintendent of Docum.ents is authorized to sell at 
cost any public documicnt in his charge, the distribution of 
which is not otherwise provided for. Only one copy can be sold 
to the same person, excepting Members of Congress, or to 
libraries or schools. 

"Documents can not be supplied free to individuals [by the 
Superintendent of Documents], nor can they be forwarded in 
advance of payment. 

"The accumulation of publications in . . . [the office of the 
Superintendent of Documents] amounts to several millions of 
which about 700,000 are assorted, forming the sales stock, and 
covering nearly every important department, bureau, and 
series. Many rare books are included, but under the law all 
must be sold 'at cost,' regardless of their age or scarcity. Of 
many of the most valuable works only one or two copies 
remain. 

"In ordering [from the Superintendent of Documents], it 
should be borne in mind that most of the books have been in 
stock some time, and are apt to be shop- worn. In filling orders, 
however, the best copy available is sent. 

"This Office possesses the most complete collection of U. S. 
Government publications in the world, and employs several 
document experts in reference work. Information regarding 
public documents will gladly be supplied. 

"As the sales office for Government publications, we are 
anxious to inform the people how and where to secure documents 
they may desire. 

"Lists. . . on various subjects, will be issued from time to 
time for free distribution. No general price list of public docu- 



230 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

ments is at present available, but lists on special subjects will be 
furnished on application. 

"Remittances should be made to the Superintendent of Docu- 
ments, Washington, D. C, by postal money order, express order, 
or New York draft. Currency may be sent at owner's risk. 
Canadian postal notes will be accepted only when the name of 
the issuing office is plainly stamped on the face of the note. If 
postage stamps are pasted on, the note will be returned. 

"Postage stamps, foreign money, uncertified checks, defaced 
or slick coin will positively not be accepted. 

"No charge is made for postage on documents forwarded to 
points in the United States, Guam, Hawaii, Philippine Islands, 
Porto Rico, or to Canada, Cuba, or Mexico. To other coimtries 
the regular rate of postage is charged, and remittances must 
cover such postage." 

The Superintendent of Documents issues a Monthly Catalogue 
which gives a complete list of U. S. Government publications of 
each month, including those of the President, both Houses of 
Congress, the Executive Departments, Library of Congress, 
Smithsonian Institution, and Bureau of American Republics. 
Each number has a preface entitled "Notes of General Interest," 
in which comment is made on the most notable publications listed 
therein. 

The Monthly Catalogue is sent to each Senator, Representative, 
Delegate, and Officer in Congress, to designated depositories and 
State and Territorial libraries, to substantially all Government 
authors, and to as many school, college, and public libraries as 
the limited edition w^ ill supply. 

"Subscription price to individuals, $1.10 a year. Back 
numbers can not be supplied. 

"Beginning with the fiscal year 1909, there will be a cumulative 
index to the Monthly Catalogue for half-yearly periods. That is, 
the August number wdll contain an index to the July and August 
numbers, the September number will index three numbers, and 
so on until December. The June number will contain an index 
for the year." 

For many 3^ears it has been the policy of the General Govern- 
ment to deposit its publications with selected libraries in 
different parts of the country. There are now 615 such libraries 
representing practically all regions of the United States. These 



1909] U. S. Government Publications 231 

libraries are designated by Congressmen, and may be changed, so 
it follows that many libraries have only fractions of sets of the 
Government publications. If the intention of those responsible 
for this method of depositing Government docvmients were carried 
out, it would be possible for a person in any part of the United 
States to consult at some library in his vicinity any Government 
document which he wished to see, but it is too often the case that 
on receipt at a library" Government documents are stored in some 
lumber room or disposed of in some similar way. Perhaps this is 
natural, for their very quantity is an embarrassment unless a 
library is unusually well equipped with a staff of cataloguers and 
other workers, and it is true of these documents, as perhaps of no 
other group of publications, that full classification and indexing 
are needed if the material contained in the volumes or pamphlets 
is to be accessible. For instance, the "sheep set" of docimients, 
so designated from the fact that it was for many years bound in 
sheep skin, contains the documents and reports of the Senate and 
House, the annual reports and yearbooks of different departments 
and Geological Survey bulletins, and much other matter From 
these statements it is apparent that no casual examination of the 
volumes w-ould give an idea of the extent and character of the 
material which they contain. It is a great help to workers to 
know that the docimient index which is published for each session 
of every Congress contains a full index of the material included in 
the corresponding volumes of the sheep set. Furthermore, the 
Superintendent of Documents now publishes a "Document 
Catalogue" which appears as a document of the House of Repre- 
sentatives. On the title page of the last volume, which appeared 
in 1908 as Document No. 483, Fifty-eighth Congress, Third Ses- 
sion, House of Representatives, the title is as follows: "Cata- 
logue of PubHc Docimients of the Fifty-eighth Congress and of 
Other Departments of the Government of the United States for 
the Period from July i, 1903, to June 30, 1905." The scope of 
the volume is indicated by the introductory paragraphs of the 
preface which are as follows : 

"This, the seventh number of the Document Catalogue 
(Comprehensive Index) , includes all documents and reports sub- 
mitted to Congress, March 5, 1903, to March 4, 1905, without 
regard to the time when they were printed, and, in addition 
thereto, all publications of the Executive Departments, bureaus. 



232 Tlie Journal of Home Economics [June 

and offices of the Government issued during the two fiscal years 
July I, 1903, to June 30, 1905. 

It would be too much to expect that any ordinary reader 
would realize that under the name "Documents and Reports of 
Congress," which is the official title of the sheep set, would be 
found such a wide variety of articles as is the case, many of them 
of permanent value, others of current interest to general readers, 
and many of great value for the specialists in a large variety of 
lines. It is with a view to rendering such papers accessible that 
the Superintendent of Documents is issuing the various sorts of 
information already referred to. 

THE WHITE HOUSE. 

The documents which emanate from the White House are in 
the nature of things chiefly concerned with matters directly 
connected with the President and his official activities. It is not 
unusual, however, to find that such papers contain data of 
interest from the standpoint of the subject of Home Economics. 
For instance, the messages of the President to Congress often 
include matter of value regarding questions afTecting the home 
life of every family. 

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND THE POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT. 

The Department of Justice and the Post-Office Department issue 
many documents but they are in the main concerned with the 
specific work of these Departments and with topics of interest 
to students of history, law, and other such subjects, rather than 
to students of Home Economics. The Department of Justice 
has, however, in recent years devoted much time to questions 
concerned with the national pure food law and its application. 
The opinions and decisions of the Attorney-General on such 
topics are matters which interest the consumer of food products 
as well as the manufacturer and distributor. 

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 

The other branches of the General Government are those whose 
work is more likely to be of interest to students of Home Eco- 
nomics, and in the nature of things the Department of Agri- 
culture is perhaps first in the list as it is concerned with the pro- 
duction, protection, and distribution of food products, both 



1909] U. S. Government Publications 233 

animal and vegetable, with fibers, with timber, and in general, 
with the raw materials and many commercial products which 
pertain to the home and its problems. Furthermore, the De- 
partment of Agriculture has important educational functions 
and is the center of the experiment station movement, a move- 
ment of the greatest importance in accumulating data and in 
bringing the results of scientific investigation and experiment 
directly to the person who needs them. 

The main Divisions of the Department of Agriculture are the 
Office of the Secretary, the Weather Bureau, the Bureau of Plant 
Industry, the Bureau of Animal Industry, the Office of Experiment 
Stations, the Forest Service, the Bureau of Entomology, the 
Bureau of Chemistry, the Bureau of Soils, the Bureau of Biological 
Survey, the Office of Public Roads, the Bureau of Statistics, 
and the Division of Publications. 

The Library of the Department should also be mentioned as it 
is of the greatest importance to the experimental and other work 
of the various bureaus. All of the bureaus and other main 
subdivisions of the Department of Agriculture issue publications 
which are of interest to students of Home Economics. 

A list of titles which the Superintendent of Documents has pub- 
lished of Department of Agriculture publications now obtainable 
by purchase, arranged by bureaus, is well worth reading and 
doubtless it would surprise even those who are tolerably familiar 
with the scientific work carried on under Government auspices 
to see how many papers of interest on chemistry, forestry, plant 
production, the inspection of food materials, the nutrition of 
man, the feeding of animals, food legislation, statistics of agri- 
cultural products of all sorts, and papers on insects, birds, mam- 
mals, and other topics are being issued by this Department. 

Much m.ore extensive is the list of publications of the Depart- 
ment of A-griculture (1862-1902) with an analytical index which 
was published by the Superintendent of Documents, which is a 
book of 623 pages. Entries are arranged by bureaus and also 
alphabetically by title and author. Library classification num- 
bers are given and the volume as a whole serves as a check list of 
Department of Agriculture publications for the period included. 

It is perhaps true that as sources of information on historical, 
statistical and descriptive lines Government documents would 
prove equally useful for students of Domestic Science and Do- 



234 ^^^ Jour)ial of Home Economics [June 

mestic Art, the two main branches of the general subject of Home 
Economics, but whether or not this is literally the case, it is 
certainly true that the amount of data available on both subjects 
is very large. In the case of specific information it seems certain 
that more is available on the subject of food and other Domestic 
Science subjects than is the case with those which pertain to 
Domestic Art, and this is due in large measure to the fact that 
the chemistry of food and related subjects has been for so many 
years one of the principal lines of activity of the Bureau of 
Chemistry, and to the studies of human nutrition have been 
systematically undertaken for many years by the Office of 
Experiment Stations. 

In the Office of Experiment Stations bulletins which have been 
published in connection with the nutrition investigations are 
naturally first in interest to students of nutrition. These include 
the technical reports of investigations as well as popular sum- 
maries based on the work. There are about 60 technical bulle- 
tins and 50 popular publications, most of which are still available. 
The technical bulletins may be purchased through the Superin- 
tendent of Documents as the small edition provided for distribu- 
tion by the Department of Agriculture has in many cases been 
exhausted. The popular summaries of nutrition subjects have 
appeared in what are termed Farmers' Bulletins, and also as 
reprints, separates and circulars, and in so far as they are avail- 
able are distributed gratuitously. As is the case with other 
series of publications of the Office of Experiment Stations, lists of 
nutrition bulletins are published for free distribution, which give 
short summaries of their contents, the price and method of dis- 
tribution, as well as bibliographical data. The Superintendent of 
Documents has also published a list of Government documents 
dealing with food which includes the titles of the Office of Experi- 
ment Stations nutrition publications and others. The bulletins 
of the Agricultural Education Division of the Office and of the 
Farmers' Institute Division are of interest from the standpoint of 
pedagogics and general educational subjects, while the bulletins 
of the Divisions of Irrigation and Drainage supply data on a 
variety of topics concerned with the conservation of water and its 
use for agricultural purposes in both arid and humid regions. 

The Office of Experiment Stations nutrition publications 
represent the results of the experimentation. and collection of 



1909] U. S. Government Publications 235 

general data carried on under the nutrition investigations first 
authorized by Congress in 1894. At its inception this work was 
assigned to the Office of Experiment Stations under the direction 
of Professor W. O. Atwater and for a time naturally centered at 
Middletown, Conn., where Professor Atwater was head of the 
Chemical Department of Wesleyan University. For ten years or 
more, cooperation with agricultural experiment stations, agri- 
cultural colleges, philanthropic organizations and other institu- 
tions was an important feature of the work and notably increased 
the total output. The investigations are now centered in Wash- 
ington where adequate quarters have been provided in the new 
Department of Agriculture Building and the respiration calori- 
meter which was in Middletown, Conn., has been rebuilt with a 
number of important improvements. 

The nutrition investigations have included studies of experi- 
mental methods, the development and operation of the bomb 
calorimeter, the development and operation of the respiration 
calorimeter, studies of the composition and relative nutritive 
value of different foods, dietary studies with individuals and 
groups living under a variety of circumstances, digestion experi- 
ments with different food materials and food combinations, 
studies of factors which affect digestion, experiments on the 
metabolism of nitrogen, and on the balance of income and outgo 
of matter and energy; studies of the changes and losses due to 
different cooking processes, particularly with reference to meat 
and some vegetables, special studies of the nutritive value and 
digestibility of bread of different kinds and of other cereal foods, 
special studies of the digestibility and nutritive value of cheese 
and of fruits and nuts, studies of food supplies of different 
localities, the effects of mxuscular work of different kinds and 
varying intensity on metabolism, the effects of mental work on 
metabolism, studies of iron and other ash constituents of food, 
and the place of ash constituents in the diet and studies of institu- 
tion dietetics and household problems. 

The technical nutrition bulletins report the results of these 
investigations. Titles selected as typical of these publications 
follow: The Composition of American Food Materials; Dietary 
Studies at the University of Tennessee; Description of the 
Respiration Calorimeter and Experiments on the Conservation of 
Energy in the Human Body ; Report on the Digestibility and 



236 7^he Journal of Home Economics [June 

Nutritive Value of Meat; Iron in Food and Its Functions in 
Nutrition ; Studies of the Effects of Different Methods of Cooking 
Starch; and The Influence of Muscular and Mental Work on 
Metabolism. 

i The general summaries which have been based on the investi- 
gations and the data collected in connection with them have been 
published very largely in the Farmers' Bulletins though some- 
times in circulars and sometimes as reprints from the annual 
reports of the Office of Experiment Stations, the Yearbooks of 
the Department of Agriculture, and similar sources. These 
popular publications discuss such subjects as meat, milk, fish, 
eggs, fruit, vegetables, sugar, cereal foods, nuts, the general 
theories and problems of nutrition, conveniences for the home 
and similar topics. 

It is perhaps not too much to say that the nutrition investiga- 
tions of the Office of Experiment Stations, both in the extent and 
variety of the problems studied and in the results which have 
been obtained, represent the largest organized enterprise in this 
or in any other country for the specific purpose of studying such 
questions. The data here presented show that the bulletins and 
other published material issued as a result of this enterprise are 
numerous and include a wide variety of topics. Owing to the 
scarcity of general text and reference books on nutrition subjects, 
the nutrition pubHcations of the Office of Experiment Stations 
have been widely used in schools, colleges, medical schools, etc., 
to take their place. Furthermore, even a casual examination of 
journals and books which are published on these subjects will 
show that they have been freely quoted by writers on nutrition 
topics in the United States and other countries. 

A publication of the Office of Experiment Stations which 
should be consulted regularly by all teachers of Home Economics 
is the Experiment Station Record, a monthly abstract journal 
which summarizes the publications of the agricultural experi- 
ment stations, and in addition, reviews the scientific literature 
published in all countries Vv'hich would be of interest to the investi- 
gators in the agricultural colleges and experiment stations. The 
abstracts are classified under the following divisions: Agri- 
cultural Chemistry, Foods — Human Nutrition, Animal Produc- 
tion, Dairy Farming — Dairying — Agrotechny, Meteorology — 
Water, Soils — Fertilizers, Agricultural Botany, Field Crops, 



1909J U. S. Govermnent Production 237 

Horticulture, Forestry, Diseases of Plants, Economic Zoology — • 
Entomology, Veterinary Medicine, Rural Engineering, Rural 
Economics, Agricultural Education, and some miscellaneous 
topics. In addition to the abstracts, the Experiment Station 
Record contains editorial discussions of scientific, educational, 
and other tooics, and personal and other notes of interest to 
experiment station workers. Owing to a limited edition the 
Experiment Station Record is sent free to few individuals other 
than college and station workers, unless there is some special rea- 
son for it. It is distributed quite generally to libraries where it may 
of course be consulted by students. However, as is the case with 
most Government documents, the Experiment Station Record 
may be purchased for a sum designed simply to cover the cost of 
publication, in this case at present $1.50 a year. The first 
number of the Record appeared in September, 1889, and it is 
now closing (1909) its 20th volume. Each volume includes 
detailed indexes and a general index has been published of 
volumes i to 12. A set of the Experiment Station Record con- 
stitutes in itself a very valuable reference library. 

It has been the policy of the Office of Experimient Stations to 
issue lists of the publications of its different divisions and to keep 
these lists up to date. Thus, a list of the nutrition publications 
of the Office has appeared at frequent intervals, as have also lists 
of the publications of the Division of Irrigation and Drainage, of 
Farmers' Institutes, and of Agricultural Education. 

The Farmers' Bulletins, a series of publications intended for 
free distribution, which originated in the Office of Experiment 
Stations, and has become a general series of the Department of 
Agriculture, are of great importance and value since they are 
designed to summarize in non-technical' form the results of in- 
vestigations on all topics concerned with the general subject of 
agriculture. Of these bulletins over 350 have appeared to date. 
The Fanners' Bulletins which deal with food and nutrition have 
already been mentioned. Others of special interest to students 
of Home Economics are those dealing with insect pests, with 
weeds, with the cultivation of vegetables and flowers, and other 
gardening topics, the use of alcohol for fuel, flax and other fibers, 
forest planting and farm managem^ent, and so on. 

Included in the series of Farmers' Bulletins is the sub-series 
entitled "Experiment Station Work," each number of which 



238 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

contains 10 or 12 summaries of recently published articles 
chiefly those of the agricultural experiment stations. Food and 
nutrition topics, house construction and home betterment, the 
cultivation of farm and garden crops, water supply for farms and 
homes, and many other similar questions are included among the 
topics discussed. 

Lists and indexes of the Farmers' Bulletins have been pubhshed 
and these as well as the bulletins themselves may be secured on 
request from the Division of Pubhcations of the Department of 
Agriculture or from Members of Congress. 

The publications of the agricultural experiment stations are 
in a sense Government documents, as the institutions which issue 
them were established in each State and Territory by the General 
Government and receive funds from the General Government for 
their support. They are not Government documents, however, 
in the same sense as the publications already referred to, since 
they are published and sent out locally, though under franking 
privilege, while the Government documents, as the term is 
ordinarily used, almost without exception bear the imprint of 
the Government Printing Office in Washington. With respect 
to experiment station publications, there are a few exceptions in 
the method of publication. Thus, the publications of the Alaska, 
Porto Rico, and Hawaii Agricultural Experiment Stations are 
under the law issued as regular Government documents from the 
Office of Experiment Stations. 

It is almost needless to say that the pubhcations of the 
agricultural experiment stations contain an enormous amount of 
data on food and nutrition, food inspection, physiolog>^ hygiene, 
dairying, the production, inspection and marketing of farm crops, 
fruits, poultry and meat products, and on many other topics per- 
tainingtosanitation, construction of buildings,maintaining forests, 
and the destruction of insect and animal pests. Of special interest 
are the numerous publications of the Connecticut (Storrs) 
Experiment Station which contain papers by Professor W. O. 
Atwatcr and his associates on human nutrition, and which are 
valuable not only for their subject-matter but also for their 
relation to the development of this subject in the United States. 
The Office of Experiment Stations issues a monthly list of titles 
of experiment station publications and in the Experiment Sta- 
tion Record, as already stated, reviews all the publications as 



1909] U. S. Government Publications 239 

issued. A general list of experiment station publications and of 
Office of Experiment Station documents, complete to date, was 
included in a bulletin of the Office of Experiment Stations 
entitled The Agricultural Experiment Stations of the United 
States which was published in 1900, and was also issued as a 
separate. The experiment station publications are distributed 
on request by the station directors, preference being given to 
residents of the State in which a particular station is located, and 
with the exception of the Alaska, Hawaii, and Porto Rico publica- 
tions are not distributed by the General Government. 

Index cards prepared by the Department of Agriculture 
Library and issued by the Library of Congress give titles and 
other bibliographical data of publications, as they are acquired, 
while the index cards issued by the Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions give brief notes concerning practically all the work pub- 
lished by the agricultural experiment stations. Both the Library 
cards and the Office of Experiment Station cards (which are 
sold for a low price) are classified and the cards for each class may 
be purchased separately. The Library of Congress Bulletin of 
Card Distribution Section gives full data regarding the Library 
cards. Those of the Office of Experiment Stations are fully 
described in a circular of the Office. In the case of the Office of 
Experiment Stations set, students of nutrition often order those 
cards which have to do with food and nutrition of man, agri- 
cultural chemistry, dairying, and animal production, and oc- 
casionally horticulture and field crops. 

For many years the Bureau of Chemistry has been studying 
problems concerned with the composition of food materials, with 
the production of sugar and other food products, with the 
elaboration and perfection of methods pertaining to the ex- 
amination and analysis of foods and other agricultural materials 
and with other important problems. 

The Association of Official Agricultural Chemists has since its 
organization been particularly concerned with devising, testing, 
and comparing methods for the analysis of foods and other agri- 
cultural materials. The proceedings of the organization have 
appeared as publications of the Bureau of Chemistry and it is not 
too much to say that this Bureau has been a factor second to 
none in these investigations of standard analytical methods. 
The Home Economics student who takes up chemical work in 



240 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

any of the lines relating to his subject is dependent in large 
measure upon the work of the Bureau of Chemistry for his 
laboratory methods and other information, and will find the 
material which he seeks in many other bulletins of the Bureau as 
well as those which contain the proceedings of the Association of 
Official Agricultural Chemists. The passage of the National 
Pure Food Law has added very largely to the work of the Bureau 
of Chemistry, both from the standpoint of investigation and 
inspection. Of the recent investigations of the Bureau may be 
mentioned the studies of the effects of the various commercial 
preservatives on general metabolism and health, and the studies 
of the effects of cold storage on meat, poultry, and other food 
products. As illustrations of the wide scope of the work of this 
Bureau, the following titles of publications of interest to students 
of Home Economics may be noted: Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa 
Preparations ; Extent and Character of Food and Drug Adultera- 
tion ; Compilations of Food and Drug Laws ; Chemical Analysis 
and Composition of American Honeys; Studies of Apples and 
numerous other studies of the chemical changes which accompany 
the ripening and storage of fruits ; Meat Extracts and Similar 
Preparations; Some Forms of Food Adulteration and Simple 
Methods for Their Detection; and Official and Provisional 
Methods of the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists. 

The work of the Bureau of Animal Industry is very varied, 
including investigation and experiments in biological chemistry, 
dairying, animal feeding and other subjects, as well as a large 
amount of inspection work concerned with meat and meat prod- 
ucts designed for domestic and foreign trade. There is perhaps 
no division of this Bureau which does not at some time publish 
work of interest to the student of Home Economics. As indica- 
tions of the activities of the Bureau, the following publications 
may be cited: Dairy Schools: Information Concerning the 
Angora Goat [and Mohair Wool]; Investigations on the Manu- 
facture and Curing of Cheese; The Available Energy of Red 
Clover Hay [Experiments with the Respiration Calorimeter]; 
The Federal Meat Inspection Service and Varieties of Cheese. 

In general, it may be said that the Bureau of Plant Industry is 
concerned with the study of problems pertaining to the produc- 
tion and protection of plant crops and to the economic manage- 
ment of farm problems, particularly as related, to the production 



1909] U. S. Govermnent Publications 241 

of plant products, and with other problems which have to do 
fundamentally with plant life m its relation to agriculture. The 
list of publications which interest students of Home Economics 
is a long one, including as it does botanical studies of a great 
variety of plants, studies of cotton, flax, and other fiber plants, of 
the cultivation of farm and garden crops and the combating of 
plant diseases and other questions. An idea of the work of this 
Bureau as it interests the Home Economics movement may be 
gained from the following titles: The Commercial Status of 
Durum Wheat; Wild Rice — Its Uses and Propagation; The 
Avocado — A Salad Fruit from the Tropics ; Tuna [Cactus Fruit] 
as Food for Man ; The Mulberry and Other Silk Worm Food 
Plants; and The Cold Storage of Small Fruits. Like most of the 
other bureaus, the Bureau of Plant Industry has prepared lists of 
its publications. 

The Bureau of Soils is engaged in soil surveys of the United 
States and in physical and chemical investigations of the nature 
of soils with special reference to agricultural problems. When- 
ever questions of the nature and character of agricultural soils 
arise, the student should consult the records of the work of this 
Bureau. 

The Forest Service has developed very greatly in the extent and 
importance of its work in the last 10 or 12 years. This Bureau, in 
addition to its important work in connection with the national 
forests, is engaged in studying problems connected with the growth 
and protection of forest trees, with the preservation and utilization 
of wood, the maintenance of forests, and other questions. "\\ hen- 
ever a topic arises which concerns the general question of the 
management of trees, the production of lumber, the relative value 
of different sorts of timber for house construction, or other pur- 
poses, the bulletins and other publications of the Forest Service 
should be consulted. 

The publications of the Weather Bureau are in the main 
technical and of interest chiefly to meteorologists and those 
interested in other questions of physical geography. It not in- 
frequently happens, however, that some special question is con- 
sidered which pertains to subjects included in Home Economics. 
For instance, a paper w^as published some years ago on the 
influence of high altitude, that is, diminished atmospheric pres- 
sure, upon cooking processes. 



242 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The Bureau of Statistics, as its name implies, is chiefly concerned 
with collecting and digesting statistical data relating to agri- 
culture and agricultural products, and from its publications 
much which is of value to the Home Economics student may be 
secured. The Crop Reporter, a periodical publication of this 
Division, gives current information of a statistical nature. From 
time to time, the Bureau publishes bulletins on special topics 
which the student of Home Economics will find useful, as for 
instance. Meat Supply and Surplus with Consideration of Con- 
sumption and Export, which is an exhaustive summary of data 
regarding meat consumption, the meat trade and similar topics. 

The Bureau of Entomology as a part of its work has studied 
insect pests and methods of destroying them. The work which 
has to do with flies and other household insects is of particular in- 
terest to students of home problems but there is a great amount 
of other work to which attention should also be directed; for 
instance, the studies of insects injurious to farm and garden 
crops. 

The Bureau of Biological Survey is investigating problems 
which pertain to the distribution of animal life in the United 
States and the life history of birds and mammals in order that 
useful species may be protected and those which are harmful 
destroyed or kept within bonds. 

The Division of Publications exercises editorial functions and 
supervises the publication and distribution of the bulletins and 
other documents of the Department of Agriculture. The 
Yearbook of the Department, to which all the bureaus and other 
divisions contribute, is edited and published by the Division of 
Publications. The Yearbook is published for general distribu- 
tion and is designed to give in popular form summaries of agri- 
cultural topics and reports of progress along agricultural 
lines. It may be obtained through members of Congress. 
An Index for the Yearbook has been issued recently. Numerous 
indexes of Department pubHcations have been issued by the 
Division of Publications which should be consulted by the stu- 
dent of Home Economics; for instance, the Index of Farmers' 
Bulletins Nos. i to 250, which was published as Bulletin 8 of the 
Division of PubHcations. Mention should also be made of 
Division of Pubhcation Circular 2 which contains a list of publica- 
tions for free distribution. Other important indexes are the 



1909] ^- S. Government Publications 243 

Index to Literature Relating to Animal Industry in the Publica- 
tions of the Department of Agriculture, 1837-1898, leaflets giving 
lists of Farmers' Bulletins and other pubHcations. The di- 
vision of Publications also issues a Monthly List of Publications 
giving titles of current bulletins, circulars, etc., issued by the 
Department. This Hst is sent free to all who request it and 
should be in the hands of every student of Home Economics as it 
affords a ready means of keeping track of the Department of 
Agriculture publications. 

STATE, WAR. AND XAVY DEPARTMENTS. 

For many years the State Department published the Consular 
and Trade Reports but as noted elsewhere, this is now done by the 
Department of Commerce and Labor, the change having been 
made in 1903. The material which appears in these reports, 
however, is collected and put in shape for publication by the 
Bureau of Trade Relations of the State Department. As com- 
pared with the other executive branches of the Government, the 
State Department has issued few publications and the bulk of 
them, as would be expected, deal with treaties and other ques- 
tions of national and international policy. 

The War Department has published many bulletins and 
reports dealing with army rations, equipment of troops and 
similar topics, and has also studied matters of more special interest 
to Home Economics students. For instance, the tests of 
specially constructed fireless cookers suited to army use described 
in the reports of the Commissary-General,the accounts of the work 
of the schools for army cooks, discussions of diet in tropical re- 
gions, and other similar material may be mentioned. The 
Manual of the Subsistence Department United States Army, 
recently published by the Office of the Commissary-General, is an 
example of another kind of publication dealing with food prob- 
lems. This takes up subsistence stores, ration issue, kitchen cars 
for army use, and related questions. 

The Library of the Surgeon-General's Office of the War De- 
partment contains one of the most complete collections of medi- 
cal literature in the United States, and indeed in the world. On 
its shelves may be found the bulk of the medical journals and 
reference works of all countries, as well as special publications 
deaUng with sanitation, hygiene, nutrition and related ques- 



244 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

tions. The Index Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon- 
General's Office is one of the most valuable of reference works 
and may be consulted in most large libraries. This Catalogue 
comprising to date some 29 volumes, contains both subjects and 
author entries not only of books and pamphlets, but also of 
many articles in periodicals, publications of learned societies, etc. 
The student who has in hand a subject for special study or 
investigation will always do well to consult these volumes with a 
good chance of finding something which pertains to the question 
in which he is interested. 

The statements which have been made regarding the work of 
the War Department in its relation to food and nutrition may 
also be applied to the Navy Department. The proper feeding of 
the naval forces and the provisioning of ships are very important 
problems and the numerous publications dealing with rations 
for the Navy and related matters are of interest not only in 
themselves, but also as a contribution to the general question of 
food requirements and dietary standards. Cookbooks suited to 
the special needs of army and navy cooks have been issued by 
both the War and the Navy Department. A recent mess book, 
designed for cooks in the Navy, gives a large number of recipes in 
quantities suitable for 100 men. Not infrequently the publica- 
tions of the Navy Department contain useful information on 
some special food topic. As an instance may be cited an account 
published in Memoranda for the Information of Officers of the 
Pay Corps, Commanding Officers of Ships and Commandants of 
Stations, 1908, No. 85, of tests of evaporated eggs, milk and 
vegetables. Investigations in hygiene carried on by both the 
War Department and the Na\y Department are of general 
interest as are the investigations which concern materials used 
for clothing and for other purposes. 

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR. 

The Department of the Interior includes a number of bureaus 
or other sub-divisions which issue publications of interest to 
Home Economics students. 

The Patent Office, one of its important divisions, prepares 
printed specifications of patents which it has granted but these 
though sold under certain conditions, are not designed for 
general distribution. It is often possible, however, to consult 



1909] U. S. Government Publications 245 

such publications and they frequently afford reliable information 
regarding some manufactured product or the machinery used in 
its manufacture which would be difficult to obtain except from 
this source or from The Official Gazette which is issued monthly 
by the Patent Office and contains condensed descriptions of all 
patents issued, trade-marks licensed, etc. 

For many years what is now the Department of Agriculture 
v:as a part of the Department of the Interior, and the earlier 
work of the Department of Agriculture appears in Patent 
Office Reports. 

The Geological Survey and the Reclamation Ser\'ice, which are 
important subdivisions of the Department of the Interior, have 
published a very large number of important bulletins and re- 
ports dealing with mineral resources of the United States, 
engineering problems, and other topics included in these fields of 
activity. Of special interest to students of Home Economics 
are the publications which deal with coal, fuel tests, minerals and 
metals, water supplies, marble, granite, and other building 
materials and similar questions. 

The Bureau of Education of the Department of the Interior 
was established to collect and distribute information regarding 
educational questions in the United States and its publications 
are of great value to educators and students. In many of them 
statistics and other information can be obtained regarding the 
Home Economics movement in the United States and other data 
which it would not be possible to obtain elsewhere. The Daily 
Meals of School Children by Caroline L. Hunt which appeared 
in Bureau of Education Bulletin 1909, No. 3 may be mentioned. 

The Office of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior 
supervises affairs connected with the American Indians, and a 
document issued by this Oiffce which is of special interest in this 
discussion is Teaching the Rudiments of Cooking in the Class 
Room: Primary Methods and Outlines for the Use of Teachers 
in Indian Schools, which appeared in 1906. 

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND LABOR. 

The publications of the Census Office, which is one of the 
principal sub-divisions of the Department of Commerce and 
Labor, contain a very great amount of data often difficult to 
obtain elsewhere regarding processes of manufacture, the 



246 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

character of the manufactured products, the growth and distribu- 
tion of industries, and on similar topics, in addition to strictly 
statistical matter. As illustrations of valuable special papers 
issued by the Census Office may be mentioned articles, which 
appeared in a volume^ published in 1908, on textiles, cotton 
manufactured products, wool manufacturers, silk manufactured 
products, buttons, oil cloth and linoleum, butter, cheese, and 
condensed milk, flour and grist mill products, canning and 
preserving, rice cleaning and polishing, slaughtering and meat 
packing, cotton-seed products, lumber and timber products, 
and so on. Some of these articles, for instance that on canning 
and preserving, include an historical and descriptive section 
which is of decided interest, or a section on the description and 
use of the products as in the case of the article on cotton-seed. 
Not all volumes of these Census Office reports would prove of 
equal interest to students of Home Economics but whenever a 
question arises connected w'ith foods, textiles, or other commercial 
products on which information is desired, it is well worth while to 
look in the Census publications for it is more than likely that 
they will supply information which it would be difficult to find 
elsewhere. 

The Bureau of Statistics of Labor of the Department of Com- 
merce and Labor has studied a great variety of problems relating 
to food supply, the cost of living, the distribution and expendi- 
ture of incomes, and other related topics, and the publications of 
this Bureau should always be consulted by a student or investiga- 
tor who is interested in such problems. 

The Bureau of Statistics of Labor was established a number of 
years before the Department of Commerce and Labor of which it 
is now a part. Cooperating with this Bureau, Professor Atwater 
(1888-1892) carried on dietary studies of factory operatives and 
other families in different localities and the nutrition investiga- 
tions of the Department of Agriculture, may in a way, be looked 
upon as an outgrowth of this work and that which was under- 
taken for the Smithsonian Institution (see p. 249) and Fish 
Commission. 

The Fish Commission is now a part of the Department of 
Commerce and Labor. Many of its publications are of particular 



a Special Reports of the Census Office — Manufactures, pt. 3. Selected Industries, 1905 



1909] U. S. Government Pnhlications 247 

interest. It may be noted that Professor Atwater's studies of 
the composition of food fishes and marine invertebrates, were 
undertaken in part under the auspices of the Fish Commission. 
Numerous pubhcations of this Commission contain statistical 
and other data regarding food fishes and fishing industries. 
From time to time other subjects are included. As an illustra- 
tion may be mentioned a report on marine algae and their pos- 
sible value as food products, for making glue, and for other pur- 
poses. 

The Daily and Monthly Consular and Trade Reports formerly 
issued by the State Department but now by the Bureau of 
Manufactures of the Department of Commerce and Labor, con- 
tain much matter of interest in connection with the lines of work 
now under consideration. These publications are made up of 
short summaries, usually on current topics submitted by U. vS. 
Consuls and Consular Agents. To cite a few articles at random, 
mention may be made of Food in Asiatic Turkey, Japanese 
Labor — Comparative Efficiency, and of Water Aspirators for 
Homes — Simple Devices for Cleaning. 

The Bureau of Standards, which is also a part of the Depart- 
ment of Commerce and Labor, carries on important research 
work in chemistry and physics in addition to its standardization 
of scientific instruments and other work which naturally pertains 
to a bureau of this character. The reports of the scientific 
investigations referred to appear in the Bulletin of the Bureau of 
Standards which is issued as a periodical, and in other Bureau 
publications. , 

THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT. 

The greater part of the work of the Treasury Department is 
concerned with the financial questions of the United States, the 
customs service, the auditing of accounts of the different de- 
partments, and related matters. The attention of students of 
Home Economics is especially directed to the work of the Super- 
vising Architect's Office, the work of the Office of the Commis- 
sioner of Internal Revenue, and the work of the Bureau of 
Public Health and Marine Hospital Service. In connection with 
the Internal Revenue work, much has been published regarding 
the legal status of foods and beverages. Such publications as the 
Gaugers' Manual include tabular matter of interest to analysts. 



248 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The following titles may serve to illustrate the importance of 
publications issued by the Public Health and Marine Hospital 
Service of the United States and the Hygienic Laboratory which 
is a part of this Bureau: Milk in Its Relations to Public Health; 
The Thermal Death Point of Pathogenic Micro-organisms in 
Milk; Disinfection Against Mosquitoes; and Pellagra, A Precis, 
which discusses this disease attributed to eating spoiled Indian 
com. 

CONGRESSIONAL DOCUMENTS. 

The Library of Congress has one of the most important collec- 
tions of books, periodicals, and documents in the world. Those 
who have the opportunity can freely consult its great collections 
in the public reading room. As a part of its work the Library of 
Congress publishes entry cards of all material which it receives 
which give title, author, and other bibliographical data. These 
cards are classified and sold in sections. By the purchase of 
sections which deal with food and nutrition, textile fabrics, and 
other Home Economics topics, it is possible to secure much 
valuable information regarding sources of information. Cata- 
logue cards prepared by the Bureau of Education, Geological 
Sur\'ey, and Department of Agriculture are also published and 
are for sale by the Library of Congress. They cover publications 
of the Geological Survey and articles and reports of the Bureau 
of Education, as well as other publications received at these 
libraries. The subject headings on these Library of Congress 
cards are of use in determining the character of the publications 
more definitely than by title alone. 

The publications of the National Academy of Science appear as 
Senate Documents and some of them are valuable to students of 
Home Economics. Mention may be made of the paper on 
bacteriological examination of the soil, and on that dealing with 
respiration calorimeter experiments by Atwater and Benedict. 

Special reports of committees, commissions, and other bodies 
are often issued as Government documents, the source of publi- 
cation varying with the nature of the inquiry and other circum- 
stances. Thus, the report on the occurrence and spread of typhoid 
fever during the Spanish War, which contains a great deal of 
value in relation to home hygiene, the dangers from flies and dust 
in relation to disease, and similar topics were published as a 



1909] U. S. Government Publications 249 

report by the War Department. The recent reports of the 
President's Home Commission appeared as a Senate Document of 
the 60th Congress. 2d Session. This contains data on industrial 
hygiene and social betterment. Special subjects included in the 
latter section are alimentation and foods, good food at reasonable 
cost, food and home betterment, sociological studies of 1,251 
subjects, the business relation of wage earners to the scale of 
wages and cost of living, as well as other articles which might 
be mentioned. 

The Report of the Country Life Commission which appeared 
also as a Senate Document, is a publication of special interest as it 
summarizes the results of the work of this Commission regarding 
life in rural regions and the improvement of conditions where 
this is needed. 

It is difficult even for those who have unusual facilities for 
knowing about such matters to keep track of Government docu- 
ments of this class since oftentimes the title does not give informa- 
tion as to the contents of the publication. In so far as possible, 
articles which have to do with food or other Home Economics 
topics which appear in such publications, are usually included 
among those noted in the Experiment Station Record. 

INDEPEN'DEXT AXD MI SCELL.WEOUS INSTITUTIOXS AND 
COMMISSIONS. 

In addition to the Government Divisions which have been 
mentioned, there are a number of commissions, etc., which are 
classed in the Congressional Directory as "Independent and 
Miscellaneous." Of these the Government Printing Office and 
one of its main divisions, the Office of the Superintendent of 
Documents, have already been mentioned. The Smithsonian 
Institution, the Commission of the Philippine Islands, the Inter- 
national Bureau of American Republics, and the Civil Service 
Commission should also be noted in this discussion of Govern- 
ment documents and their use. 

The Smithsonian Institution with its subdivisions, notably the 
National Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology, is 
interested in so many lines of work that a great variety of topics 
have been included in its publications. Many of these articles 
are of great value and importance. Of Smithsonian Institution 
publications of special interest to students of Home Economics 



250 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

may be mentioned : The Select Bibliographies of Chemistry ; Oils, 
Mediums and Varnishes Used in the Painting of Pictures; 
Order of Development of the Primal Shaping Arts; The Atmo- 
sphere in Relation to Human Life and Health; and many 
papers on insects, birds, mammals, etc. 

The following will serve as examples of National Museum 
publications which are of interest in connection with Home 
Economics: Prehistoric Art; Preparation of Microscopical 
Mounts of Vegetable Textile Fibers; Primitive Travel and 
Transportation; Wokas, a Primitive Food of the Klamath 
Indians; and numerous papers on collecting and preserving 
specimens of various sorts. 

From the publications of the Bureau of Ethnology the follow- 
ing titles have been selected: A Study of Textile Art in Its 
Relation to the Development of Form and Ornament; Pre- 
historic Textile Art of the Eastern United States; Origin and 
Development of Form and Ornament in Ceramic Art and The 
Wild Rice Gatherers of the Upper Lakes, A Study in American 
Primitive Economics. 

The Smithsonian Institution, the National Museum and the 
Bureau of American Ethnology all issue lists of their publications. 

It is of interest to note in this connection that Professor 
Atwater's earlier studies of nutrition, undertaken before the 
establishment of the nutrition enterprise in the Office of Experi- 
ment Stations, were carried on in part for the National Museum. 
A notable piece of work was that which had to do with the com- 
position of food materials, particularly food fishes. He also 
arranged illustrative material for the Museum relating to human- 
food and assisted in the classification of material pertaining to 
this subject. 

The Civil Service Commission has charge of the examinations 
and other similar matters pertaining to appointments under the 
Government Classified Service. As many students of Home 
Economics and related lines of work have such positions in 
mind, the publications of the Civil Service Commission are 
naturally of use to them. 

The International Bureau of American Republics publishes a 
monthly bulletin which contains articles on plant products, 
industrial development, municipal organization, geographical, 
statistical, and many other articles concerning the republics of 



1909] U. S. Government Publications 251 

North, South and Central America. An index to the monthly- 
bulletin is issued regularly. 

In the above enumeration and discussion of Government 
documents of use to students of Home Economics no attempt 
has been made to include everything which could be mentioned. 
The purpose has rather been to present enough data to demon- 
strate the fact that this class of publications has contributed 
much that is fundamental to the question of Home Economics 
from the standpoint of scientific data, historical and other general 
matter and pedagogical methods. Many works of reference 
and many scientific journals which are concerned with Home 
Economics are not infrequently difficult of access to the student 
in institutions of learning as university librarians in the past have 
not generally appreciated their importance and so have not 
endeavored specially to collect them. From this standpoint 
the Government documents have an added value since they are 
accessible in most university libraries and copies can often be 
obtained for school and class room use in addition to those in the 
Library. 

In this discussion nothing has been said about the publications 
of the several States which are also Government documents in 
the sense that they are issued under State auspices. The reports 
of boards of health and State dairy and food commissions, State 
departments of agriculture, statistics and education, of charitable 
reformatory and penal institutions, and so on, which have 
been printed and distributed under State auspices afford a large 
amount of information which is of interest to students of Home 
Economics. This class of literature is indeed so extensive and 
varied that it deserves discussion by itself, and the same mav be 
said of the publications of municipalities which include among 
other documents, reports of city boards of health, superintendents 
of public institutions, supervision work connected with the 
manufacture of food and other products, and documents dealing 
with a variety of other fields of activity. 

Librarians of university libraries, particularly those connected 
with agricultural colleges and experiment stations, and of 
public libraries are every year recognizing more fully the im- 
portance of Government documents and the vast amount of 
information which they supply on scientific, statistical, historical 
and other topics, as well as on the activities of the various 



2^2 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

branches into which the Government is divided. Students in 
Home Economics Departments who make use of their reference 
catalogues will find it well worth while to learn something of the 
general classifications of Government documents and the charac- 
ter of the pubHcations issued by the different departments, 
bureaus, etc. It is suggested that it would be well worth while 
for a group of students, preferably from the most advanced 
classes in the Home Economics Department, to take up as a part 
of their regular work the study of this question. Such work is 
greatly faciUtated by the use of the Monthly Catalogue of the 
Superintendent of Documents, the Monthly List of Experiment 
Station Publications, the Monthly List of Department Publica- 
tions, the Experiment Station Record and Experiment Station 
Work. By enlisting the cooperation of the librarian of their 
institution it should be possible to make an arrangement by 
which all Government documents received by the library may be 
examined. The students engaged in this work could prepare for 
class room use, lists of references to articles which in their judg- 
ment are of interest in connection with the Home Economics 
work. Such a plan is valuable not only for the information it 
will supply, but also for the training it will afford in the handling 
of Hterary material. It has been said that a university education 
is a success if it accomplishes two things, namely, if it teaches a 
student to read and to think. Any plan therefore,is to be advocated 
which will help students to use their libraries as mines from which 
information can be obtained in quantities proportional to the 
work involved, and not simply as places in which books suggested 
by an instructor may be consulted. 



FREE OR INEXPENSIVE PAMPHLET LITERATURE. 

M. BiRDSEYE. 

The following is a list of literature, in leaflet or pamphlet form, 
recently collected and exhibited by the Press and Literature 
Committee of the Greater New York Home Economics Associa- 
tion, as likely to be of value to teachers of Home Economics in 
schools and settlements, and to others interested in the subject. 
U. S. Government poiblications are not included in this special 
list, nor is reference made to experiment station publications, 
though many bulletins from both sources are distributed free of 
cost. 

Teachers will do well to secure at least a sample of each of the 
publications noted, for not only do they contain many sugges- 
tions which may be incorporated to advantage in an up-to-date 
course, but they serve to open one's eyes in a most instructive 
way to the number and variety of channels — public, private, 
philanthropic, and even commercial — through which informa- 
tion regarding the economics of the home and of the municipality 
is being literally poured upon the public. 

Unless price is explicitly stated, this hterature may be had 
free of charge by applying to the publisher. The list is as 
follows : 

List of Free or Inexpensive Publications. 

"Sanitary Code of the Board of Health," New York City, 1908. 

"Various PubUcations on Subject of Tuberculosis." Board of Health, 
New York City. 

"Food and Drug Adulteration — Their Medical and Legal Significance," 
by Dr. Darlington, New York Health Commissioner, 1908. 

"Methods of Dealing with the Milk Supply of New York City," by Dr. 
Darlington. 

"Duty of the Municipality and State in the Prevention of Tubercu- 
losis," by Dr. Darlington, New York City Board of Health, 1906. 

"Bureau of Municipal Research Leaflets," New York City. Various 
topics of interest to citizens and tax-payers. 

"Health Hints Leaflets," published by People's University Extension 
Society, 105 E. 17th St., New York City (English, Jewish, Italian). 

"Large Meals for Little Money," by Florence Kendrick Johnson, pub- 
lished by People's University Extension Society, 105 E. 1 7th St., New York 
City. (Six cents for settlement classes covers postage) . 



253 



2 54 T'/i^ Journal of Home Economics [June 

"Help to Self Help." Report of one year's work of People's University 
Extension Society, New York City, 1908. 

"Approved Methods for Home-Laundering," by Mary Beals Vail. 
Published by Proctor and Gamble Co., Cincinnati, Ohio. 

"From Cellar to Garret." A text book on Household Science. (Contri- 
butions from various Domestic Science Teachers). Published by Carbona 
Products Co., Newark, N. J. 10 cents. 

"Individual Recipes in Use at Drexel Institute." Published by John 
C. Winston Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 25 cents. 

"Cornell Reading Courses for Farmers' Wives." Bulletins published 
by N. Y. State College of Agriculture, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Consumers' League Literature. Published by Consumers' League, 105 
E. 22d St., New York. 

Sanitary "Maxims," in folder or calendar form (English, Italian and 
Jewish) . 

"White List of Retail Stores" (pocket folder). 

"Suggestions to Canners." 

"Circular letter to grocers, etc." 

"Score card for Provision Shops." 

"The Sweatshop, where tuberculosis breeds." 

Consumers' League "Catechism." 

Annual Reports. 

"Historical Sketch of Pioneer Consumers' League. Five cents. 

"The Tenants' Manual." Published by Greenwich House, New York 
City. 

Boston Health Education League Booklets. Published by Health- 
Education League, 113 Devonshire Street, Boston. Price 2-5 cents each; 
reduced rates by the hundred. 

"Hints for Health in Hot Weather." 

"Milk," by Charles Harrington, M.D. 

"Colds and their prevention." 

"Meat and Drink." By Ellen H. Richards. 

"Healthful Homes." 

"The Successful Woman." By William R. Woodbur\', M.D. 

"The Boy and the Cigarette." By H. Sterling Pomeroy, A.M., M.D. 

"The Plague of Mosquitoes and Flies." 

"Tonics and Stimulants." By Ellen H. Richards. 

"The Care of Little Children." By R. W. Hastings, A. M., M.D. 

"Emergencies." By Marshall H. Bailey, M.D. 

"Microbes Good and Bad." By Anne F. Rogers. 

"The Care of Babies." By Gaetano Praino, M.D. 

"The Efficient Worker." By Ellen H. Richards. 

"Sexual Hygiene." By An Experienced Physician. 



i 



AN AMERICAN CONTRIBUTION TO THE HISTORY OF 
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION*. 

Reviewed by Ellen A. Huntington, 

Professor Elect University of Utah. 

Professor Mendel's recent article which forms the basis of 
this review was excited through the reading of an American 
monograph, written in 1803, for a doctor's thesis at the 
University of Pennsylvania Medical College by John R. Young 
of Maryland and entitled An Experimental Inquiry into the 
Principles of Nutrition and the Digestive Processes. 

Professor Mendel commends Dr. Young's work because "in 
examining the knowledge of digestion then current, he applies 
the test of experimental evidence obtained at first hand, — a sort 
of critique less in vogue in his day than in ours." 

Professor Mendel then proceeds to review the history of the 
physiology of digestion which he divides into three periods. 
The first of these covers the earlier days of science until the 
publication of Hallers' Elementia Physiologiae (1757) when the 
triumph of "Animal Spirits" and various conceptions of "vital 
principles" persisted. Into the second period he put Reaumur 
(1752), Stevens (1777) and Spallanzani (1783) who were putting 
into practice the method of observation, rather than "obscure 
ideas" as the basis of their theories of digestion. 

The point of view of the men of this period is expressed in the 
remarks of William Hunter : 

"Some physiologists will have it, that the stomach is a mill, 
others, that it is a fermenting vat, others, again that it is a stew 
pan; but, in my view of the matter, it is neither a mill, a 
fermenting vat, nor a stew pan; but a stomach, gentlemen, a 
stomach." 

And the third epoch Professor Mendel believes to coincide 
with the use of modem chemistry and begins with the discovery 
of hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice in 1824, which was soon 
followed by Beaumont's work on the man with a gastric fistula. 



*Lafayette B. Mendel. Popular Science Monthly, Feb., 1909, Vol. 74, 
p. 174. 

255 



256 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Professor Mendel continues : 

"Let us bear in mind, then, that although the presence of a 
solvent fluid in the stomach had begun to be admitted in 1803, its 
nature and the mode of its operation were not understood until 
Beaumont's classic experiments (1833) on 'the man with a lid on 
his stomach' as — St. Martin was derisively called. Reaumur 
(1752) experimented on a lizard, administering to it hollow 
metallic capsules perforated like a sieve and containing foods 
within. The possibility of mechanical crushing or trituration 
was thereby excluded; but w^hen the tubes were regurgitated it 
was found that digestion (solution) of the food materials had 
nevertheless taken place. Some chemical action must have 
been exerted ; and by placing sponges in metallic tubes, Reaumur 
was able to express therefrom specimens of gastric juice fluid. 
He appreciated that it possessed properties antagonistic to 
putrefaction, and fragmentary as his observations may appear, 
he introduced a new method into physiological research." 

Dr. Young opened his dissertation with a review of the Nu- 
trentia. He criticizes the views of Dr. Cullen who referred "the 
principal of nutrentia to vegetables; and that they derive this 
property from their acid, sugar and oil." 

Turning to Dr. Young's observations on the processes in the 
stomach it appears that he assumes he can draw "plausible if 
not conclusive, inferences concerning our own digestion." He 
says: 

"It would be unnecessary to recite particular experiments to 
prove the solvent property of the gastric fluid, this being ad- 
mitted on all hands. . . The effects of solution are most 
remarkable in such animals as swallow their food without 
mastication. . . [Some experiments on frogs and snakes fol- 
lowed]. The gastric fluid of man and that of frogs and snakes 
agree perfectly in their action on flesh, as the experiments of 
Spallanzani prove that the first of these powerfully dissolves 
meat out of the body. . . Thus far the digestion of man and 
these animals perfectly agree, in solution being the first step 
towards the conversion of food into chyle; but they differ in 
some particulars, and probably by attending to these they may 
be of use to us. 

"First, they are cold blooded animals. Heat is a powerful 
agent in all solutions, and the experiments of Spallanzani prove it 



1909] -■^'' Atnerican Contribution to the History 257 

greatly assists the action of the gastric Hquor out of the stomach. 
Secondly, they do not masticate their food. 

"These two inconveniences are obviated by these animals 
never drinking when their digestion is going on, so that their 
fluid acts in its undiluted state; whereas in man, it is always 
diluted, as he seldom eats without drinking. 

"Thus when our stomachs are weak or we are troubled with 
dyspeptic symptoms, like them we ought to avoid much diluting 
our gastric juice ; so that although it were secreted not perfectly 
healthy, yet having the advantage of acting in its uncombined 
state, solution and digestion may go on, when it otherwise 
would not, with the common quantity of drink. Indeed our 
stomachs in this respect act a kind part to us ; for when we make 
one first dish in broth it seldom relishes much solid aliment after 
it; hence soups are the first dish at the table of the temperate 
and the last at that of the epicure." 

Again, Dr. Young turns his attention to the question of 
fermentation and putrefaction and of the latter he writes: 
"Chemists divide fermentation into three kinds, the vinous, 
acetous and putrefactive; the product of the first is vinous 
spirit, or alcohol; of the second, acetous acid or vinegar; of the 
third, ammoniae or volative alkali. [Experiments follow] 
We conclude the vinous fermentation has nothing to do with the 
digestive process." 

Dr. Young's attempt to identify the acid present in the gastric 
juice is most interesting. 

"Though great accuracy and many varied experiments are 
required to ascertain certainly the presence of an unknown acid, 
yet we are disposed to believe any person who had witnessed the 
great similarity in the comparative precipitations just mentioned 
would have pronounced the same explanation was to be applied 
to both, or that the acid in the filtered fluid was the phosphoric." 

One sentence of Dr. Yoimg's in conclusion, explains his ideas 
of the digestive function. 

"Aliment is dissolved by the gastric menstruum; it then 
passes into the duodenum and meets with bile and pancreatic 
liquor; after being imited with these, a heterogenous mass is 
formed called chyme, and from this the lacteals secrete chyle." 

Professor Mendel concludes his article with an interesting 
remark which Dr. Beaumont made when he noted that the vague 



258 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

ideas of preceding times were in marked contrast with such 
experimental inquiries as Dr. Young's. 

"It is unfortunate for the interests of physiological science 
that it generally falls to the lot of men of vivid imaginations and 
great powers of mind to become restive under the restraints of a 
tedious and routine mode of thinking, and to strike out into bold 
and original hypotheses to elucidate the operations of nature, or 
to account for the phenomena that are constantly submitting to 
their inspection. The process of developing truth, by patient 
and preserving investigation, experiment and research, is 
incompatible with unrestrained genius. The drudgery of 
science is left to humbler and more unpretending laborers. 
The flight of genius is, however, frequently erratic." 



. The Home Economics Department of Macdonald 
Institute, Guelph, Ontario, lost two members of the 
' P * staff at the end of the winter term. Miss Fonda, 

Assistant Instructor in Sewing, has resigned, and Miss Givin, chief Instruc- 
tor in Domestic Science, is obUged to give up teaching on account of ill 
health. Miss Givin has been on the staff since Macdonald Institute 
opened, and much of the success of the teacher graduates of the Institute 
has been due to her careful instruction, so that her loss is felt greatly. 
Miss Jean Roddick, of Coburg, Ontario, will succeed Miss Givin, and Mrs. 
Doughty, a graduate of Pratt Institute, will succeed Miss Fonda. 

The plan inaugurated last September of giving the House-practice work 
a special headquarters in a room by itself, and placing the house practice 
and housekeeping practice in charge of a supervisor, has proved most 
satisfactory. The individual attention rendered possible, and the careful 
inspection, has greatly improved the training. 

Macdonald Institute is a residence school, so registration is limited by 
the boarding accommodation. The list for the current term has been full 
since January, and there are not many left in the list for next September. 
This shows that the demand for home economics training is very 
great in Canada as well as in the United States. 



CARNEGIE NUTRITION LABORATORY. 

A photograph of the nutrition research laboratory of the 
Carnegie Institution of Washington appears as the frontispiece of 
this number of the Journal. This building was completed 
early in 1908 and very extensive and important experimental 
work in problems dealing with human nutrition is now being 
conducted under the direction of Doctor Francis Gano Benedict, 
who was formerly associated with the late Professor Atwater in 
his researches at Middletown, Conn. 

The laboratory is located in Boston, Mass., adjoining the 
magnificent buildings of the Harvard Medical School, and is in 
close proximity to several hospitals, thereby affording unusual 
opportunity for observations on pathological metabolism as well 
as that of normal subjects. 

As may be seen from the illustration, the laboratory building 
is a plain, brick structure of three stories and basement. It is of 
fireproof construction throughout and is particularly well lighted. 
Each laboratory room is equipped with hot and cold water, 
steam, electricity, gas and compressed air. 

The most interesting feature is the calorimeter laboratory which 
is located on the first floor. This is ingeniously constructed to 
permit of very close temperature and moisture control. A num- 
ber of respiration calorimeters for experimentation with man are 
in operation in this room. There is also a special suite of rooms 
on the third floor for use in metabolism experiments with ani- 
mals. Ample provision is made for chemical and bacteriolog- 
ical laboratories, a kitchen, offices, a machine shop, photographic 
room, etc. and a large amount of accessory apparatus has been 
installed. It is believed that the opportunities for researches of 
fundamental importance and value are in many ways unequalled 
either in this country or abroad, and should be productive of 
results of unusual importance. 

A feature of the Carnegie Nutrition Laboratory work will be 
the study of nutrition problems in relation to pathological 
conditions. It is not too much to expect that results of the 
utmost value with reference to food problems in disease, will 
accumulate rapidly, for the laboratory possesses equipment for 
studying such problems which has never before been available for 

259 



2 6o The Journal of Home Economics [June 

the purpose. In the work which he has pubhshed as a part of 
the nutrition investigations of the Office of Experiment Stations 
of the Department of Agriculture and that which he has carried 
on under the auspices of the Carnegie Institution, Doctor Benedict 
has established a standard of excellence seldom surpassed in 
scientific research. 



The Friendly Visitor Conference of the Bureau of 
. ^, . Associated Charities of Newark, N. J., is working on 

the plan of establishing small model homes in neighbor- 
hoods of Newark where they seem most needed as object lessons in proper 
home-keeping. These homes will be furnished in the simplest and least 
expensive manner, but will be made sanitary, practical and attractive. 
The aim is to make educational and social centres where home-keeping in 
all its branches may be taught and standards of living raised through the 
creation of an atmosphere of interest in helpful and useful pursuits. 

Special attention will be given to home economics with the end of 
achieving adequate nourishment of the family and provision for other 
things necessary to a wholesome manner of living on a modest regular 
income. 

A committee is now working on a system of dietaries which will be 
scientifically formed to combine in right proportions the necessary food 
elements. Cooking lessons will be given by trained teachers. The homes 
ought also to offer opportunities for the teaching of social hygiene. 
Mothers will be instructed in matters of child-raising and aroused, where 
possible, to a sense of their moral duties. The main feature of the work 
will be that consideration of the family as a whole will be its basis. 

Cooking classes and social meetings have already been held at the 
Neighborhood House on Market street, where the attendance and interest 
have been very encouraging. The Conference hopes to start four homes 
this spring, each consisting of a model kitchen, bed room and living room. 
The estimated cost of each home is $30 for furnishing and $20 a month 
for maintenance. The results which may be obtained through this kind 
of social work may be studied in New York where four homes have been 
in existence for seven years and have transformed individual and family 
lives under the eyes of those supporting and working in them. 



EFFECT OF SUGAR .\ND TEMPERATURE ON 
FRUIT JUICES*. 

Jenny Helen Snow. 

The object of the following experiments is two-fold : 

(a) To disclose what part sugar has in jelly making. 

Very little is known by the average housekeeper of the pectic 
bodies w-hich cause the jellying of fruit. To her, sugar is the 
essential factor. 

(b) To determine whether it is possible to find a temperature 
or a density at which fruit juices jelly. 

The usual laboratory method of determining this point often 
proves more or less unsatisfactory, especially in the hands of 
inexperienced w'orkers. The attempt to find a more certain test 
led to the following experiments. A number of determinations 
were made of the boiling point and of the density at the boiling 
point of fruit juice yielding a jelly of different degrees of firmness. 

These experiments were made with the juice of three different 
fruits: apples, plums and currants, and the effect of varying 
amounts of sugar was studied in each case. 

In each case a sample of boiling juice was removed at 104°, 
105°, 106° and 107° C, respectively, and the density determined 
and the quality of the product after cooling noted. The Beaume 
hydrometer was used for measuring the density. 

The table on the following page is a summary of the results 
obtained. 

Experiments Nos. i, 7 and 11 were of the same consistency 
and texture. The temperature varied from io4°C to 106°, 
while the density remained constant at 30. 

Experiments Nos. 13 and 18 were of the same consistency and 
texture. The temperature varied from io5°C to 107, while the 
density remained constant at 30. 

Experiments Nos. 17 and 21 were of the same consistency and 
texture. The temperature varied from io6°C to 107°, while the 
density remained constant at 28. 



*A dissertation submitted in 1907 to the faculties of the Graduate 
Schools of Arts, Literature and Science, University of Chicago, in 
candidacy for the degree of Master of Science. Department of House- 
hold Administration. 

261 



262 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



Table 


I — Relation 


OF Amount of Sugar 


Used to Temperature 




AND Density of Jelly. 




No. of 
Test. 


Fruit used. 


Amt. of Juice. 


Amt. of Sugar 
used. 


Temperature. 


Density of Jelly 
at boiling point. 










Degrees. 


Degrees. 


I . . . 


Apples 


I cup 


I cup 


104 


30 


2 . . . 


" 


I 


I 


105 


31 


3 • • • 


" 


*i " 


I 


106 


32 


4 . . . 


" 


I 


I 


107 


33 


5 • • • 


" 


T ' * 


i " 


io4i 


29 


6 . . . 


* * 


T * ' 


i " 


105 


29s 


7 • •■ 


** 


J * ' 


i " 

4 


105 


30 


8 . . . 


" 


tl " 


i " 


107 


30-5 


9 . . . 


* * 


T ' ' 


h " 


104 


28 


10 . . . 


* * 


J * ' 


i " 


105 


29 


II . . . 


* ' 


T * ' 


^ " 


106 


30 


12 . . . 


" 


tl " 


i ': 


107 


31 


13 . . . 


Plums 


T *' 


I " 


105 


30 


14 • • ■ 


. 


I " 


I 


106 


32 


1=; . . . 


" 


I 


I " 


107 


34 


16 . . . 


" 


X *' 


4 


105 


26 


17 . . . 


" 


I " 


i " 


106 


28 


18 ... 


" 


J ' ' 


i " 


107 


30 


19 . . . 


" 


T ' ' 


'^ " 


105 


24 


20. . . 


" 


X " 


i " 


106 


26 


21 ... 


" 


J " 


h " 


107 


28 


22 . . . 


Currants 


J " 


I 


105 


26 


23 . . . 


" 


J * * 


I 


106 


28 


24 . . . 


* ' 










25 . . . 


** 


J * * 


i " 


104 




26 . . 


* 


I " 


i " 


loS 




27 . . . 


" 


J ' * 


i " 


106 




28 . . . 


" 


X " 


h " 


104 


24 


29 . . . 


" 


X " 


* " 


105 


25 


30 ... 






1 •' 


106 


26 



*Svrupy consistency, did not hold form. 
tToo stiff. 

Experiments Nos. 22 and 30 were of the same consistency and 
texture. The temperature varied from io5°C to 106° while the 
density remained constant at 26. 

From the above results it seems to be indicated that the density 
at which a good product may be obtained varies with different 
fruits, but seems to be nearly uniform for each fruit and not 
affected by the amount of sugar used. 

This density was obtained at a lower temperature and in less 
time with the larger amount of sugar. The smaller the amount 
of sugar used, the longer the period of boiling required and the 
darker the color of the product. 

In each case the smaller the amount of sugar, the more pro- 
nounced the fruit flavor of the jelly. 



1909] 



Effect of Sugar and Temperature on Juices 



263 



The larger amount of sugar used lessened the cost per glass, 
as shown by the following table : 

Table II — Cost of Jellies Made with Varying Amounts of Sugar. 



Proportion of sugar to 


Cost per % pt. glass. 


juice. 


Currants. 


Grapes. 


Apples. 


Plums. 


1:1 


cts. 
II 

13 
22 


cts. 

5 
6 

7 


cts. 
6 
7 
9 


cts. 
10 


2 :4 


I I 


1 :2 


12 



The currant jelly was made in July, the grape in October, the 
plum in May and the apple in June. The prices paid for the 
fruits were: currants, i8c a quart box; grapes, i8c a X peek 
basket; plums, 15c a quart box; and apples, 90c a peck. 

It was found that the currants, grapes and plums would 
jelly without adding sugar, but the product was neither clear 
nor palatable and the cost in the case of the currants was over a 
dollar a glass. 

The jelly containing the smaller proportion of sugar seemed to 
keep as well as that containing the larger proportion. 

The bulletin, Sugar as Food*, by Mary Hinman Abel, contains 
the following statement : 

"Cooks have often observed that more sugar is necessary in 
sweetening acid fruits if it is heated with them from the first 
than if it be added when the cooking is completed. This is 
because some of the cane sugar, acted on by the heat and acid, 
has been changed to those other bodies which are less sweet." 

Knight^, says, "ordinary cane sugar is 'inverted,' that is 
resolved into equal parts of dextrose and levulose, a mixture of 
glucoses, by boiling with any mineral acid, and since glucose is 
only about three-fifths as sweet as cane sugar the result is an 
apparent loss of sweetness." 

I'he above statements led to a discussion of the subject. It 
was found opinions differed. The question was referred to the 
Office of Experiment Stations of the U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture, but it was reported that additional data were needed. 
Accordingly, experimental work was undertaken to see if the 



''U. S. Dept. Agr. Farmer's Bui. 93. 
* Food and its Functions, p. 40. 



264 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

question could be answered. The following points seemed to be 
involved : 

First, what percentage of cane sugar is inverted by each of the 
different methods used ? 

Second, is the invert sugar more or less sweet than cane sugar? 

Third, is the difference sufficient to be of any practical account? 

I. In these experiments Greening apples were chosen as the 
fruit, first, because they were most easily obtained on account 
of the season of the year, and second, because they are a mildly 
acid fruit. The first series of experiments consisted of the 
analysis of five different samples of apples. Determinations 
were made of (i) acidity, (2) of the amount of reducing sugar, 
(a) in the natural fruit juice, (b) in the juice of apples cooked 
without sugar, but with cane sugar added immediately at the 
close of the boiling process, (c) in the juice of the apples cooked 
with cane sugar. 

The sugar determinations were made partly by the volumetric 
and partly by the gravimetric process, using the official methods*. 

The samples taken were a mixture of the pulp from four dif- 
ferent apples, in order to assure vmiformity. In (a) the pulp 
was mortared, diluted, filtered and after being made up to a 
known quantity, tested for invert sugar and acidity. In (b) and 
(c) the pulp, after being cooked, was treated the same as in (a). 

These results are tabulated on the next page. 

To secure data as to the comparative sweetness of cane and 
invert sugar, equal amounts, by weight, of chemically pure cane 
sugar, dextrose and levulose were dissolved in equal amounts of 
water, and the solutions carefully tasted by four different people. 
Equal amounts of the dextrose and levulose solution were then 
mixed and the sweetness compared ■vv'ith an equal measure of the 
first solutions. The result was as follows, taking cane sugar as 
the standard : 

Dextrose, much less sweet than cane sugar. 

Levulose, sweeter than cane sugar. 

Mixture of equal parts of le\'ulose and dextrose, less sweet than 
cane sugar. 

The third experiment consisted in cooking larger amounts of 
apples with the sugar added respectively before and after boiling. 



"U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. Chem. 65. 



1909] 



Effect of Sugar and Temperature on Juices 



26q 



Table III — Acidity axd Reducing Sugars in Cooked Apples. 







Acidity (in 




For 100 


3ms. apples. 






tenns of 
N/lo sul- 
phuric 








Process. 


Wt. used. 


Reducing 




Reducing 






add.) 


sugar. 


Acidity. 


sugar. 


Series I 


Grms. 




Grms. 




Grms. 


(a) Fresh fruit. Xo su- 












gar added 


2517 


21.234 


2-527 


84.36 


10.036 


(b) Fruit boiled with wa- 












ter, ssmin. 2.5 gr. 












cane sugar added 












after boiling 


25-4 


21-331 


3-4246 


83.96 


13-44 


(c) Fruit boiled with wa- 













ter and 2.5 gr. cane 












sugar for 55 min.. . 


25-4 


19.84 


3-419 


78.11 


13-45 


Series II 












(a) Fresh fruit no sugar 












added 


25- 


16.36 


1-57 


65.44 


6.28 


(b) Fruit boiled with wa- 












ter, 45 min. 5 gr- 












cane sugar added 












after boiling 


25- 


16.05 


2.0978 


64.2 


8.3912 


(c) Fruit boiled with wa- 












ter, and 5 gr. sugar 












for 45 min 


25- 


16. 


3-757 


64. 


15.028 


Series III 












(a) Fresh fruit. No su- 












gar added 


25- 


23.09 


1. 631 


92.36 


6.524 


(b) Fruit boiled 45 min. 








■' *-' 




12.5 gr. sugar ad- 












ded after boiling . 


25- 


22.523 


2.952 




11.808 


(c) Fruit boiled with wa- 












ter and 12.5 gr. 












sugar 


25- 


21-959 


7.07 




28.28 


Series IV 












(a) Fresh fruit no sugar 












added 


25- 


22.5 


2-365 


90 


9.46 


(b) Fruit boiled with wa- 












ter 80 min. 12.5 gr. 












sugar added after 












boiling 


25 


23.12 


3-453 


92.48 


13.812 


(c) Fruit boiled with wa- 












ter and 12.5 gr. su- 












gar for 80 min . . . 


25 


23.72 


8.064 


94.88 


32-256 


Series Va 












(a) Fresh fruit juice .... 


10 




849 






(b) Fruit juice diluted 












and boiled 30 min. 












6 gr. sugar added 












after boiling 


10 




■958 






(c) Fruit juice diluted 












boiled with 6 gr. 












sugar 30 min .... 


10 




2-195 







ain this experiment the juice of the fruit was expressed and used instead of the whole 
fruit. The sugar was determined gra\-imetrically. 



2 66 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Equal amounts of fruit were used, and the same weight of sugar 
added to each, in No. i at the beginning, in No. 2, at the end of 
the cooking process. Out of six different people tasting, four 
considered No. 2 sweeter, and two considered No. i sweeter, but 
all agreed that the difference was so slight as to be determined 
with difficulty. 

A repetition of the experiments with plums gave a similar 
result. 

The results above seem to indicate: 

First, that the cane sugar added to apples before cooking and 
boiled with them, is largely inverted, experiment No. i alone 
failing to give this result. 

Second, when the cane sugar is added at the close of the cook- 
ing process, it is only slightly inverted. 

Third, invert sugar is less sweet than cane sugar. 
Fourth, the difference in sweetness between stewed apples 
when the sugar has been added before and after cooking respec- 
tively is so slight as to be of httle practical consequence. 

Fifth, the experiments with one exception show that the 
acidity is less in apples cooked m water either with or without 
sugar than in uncooked fruit. 

These investigations form a part of work undertaken at the 
School of Education of the University of Chicago in cooperation 
with the Nutrition Investigations of the Office of Experiment 
Stations of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. A brief note 
on the results obtained appeared in the Report of the Office of 
Experiment Stations for 1907". The present report represents 
the results of a preliminary investigation. Additional work 
which is now in progress may modify the conclusions to some 
extent. 



«U. S. Dept. Agr., Office of Experiment Stations Annual Report 1907, 
p. 29. 

[Note. — After this paper was in type the author's attention was di- 
rected to the interesting account of investigations of similar problems 
by N. E. Goldthwaite, of the .Department of Household Science of the 
University of lUinois. which appeared in the June number of the Journal 
of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, i (1909), p. 333-] 



AN ABUSE IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF FOOD STUFFS. 

By Miriam Birdseye, 

New York City. 

Each year the approach of summer initiates an abuse in the 
distribution of food stuffs with which the pubhc is too famihar 
to be concerned. The Pure Food Law, after years of struggle on 
the part of an ever-increasing body of behevers, has become a 
force that must be reckoned with by all manufacturers and 
dealers in food stuffs and we are complacently resting on our 
laurels. We do not realize that another reform of almost equal 
magnitude is calling for our best efforts. 

With the first warm days, the green grocer begins to move his 
less perishable fruits and vegetables out upon the sidewalk, where 
according to his ability, he arranges a display designed to attract 
the custom of the casual purchaser, as well as to convince his 
regular patrons that his selection is not inferior to that of his 
competitors. Marketmen prepare this display at a considerable 
sacrifice of time and money, for not only is their stock likely to be 
damaged in the early spring by some sudden change of weather, 
but in summer it slowly and surely deteriorates under the com- 
bined action of the sun and the sultry breezes. 

From the point of view of the purchaser, certain, at least, of 
the fruits and vegetables so exposed for sale are absolutely 
contaminated. Berries and grapes, lettuce, watercress, etc., are 
eaten raw, without being sterilized by the action of heat, and it 
is impossible to wash them so thoroughly that we can be sure 
they are absolutely free from a dilute solution of the street-dirt 
they have gathered. The skins of many fruits and the pods of 
string and lima beans are minutely downy or hairy, and these 
tiny hairs catch invisible particles of dust and hold them in spite 
of the most careful washing. String beans, to be sure are never 
eaten raw, but one does not relish the thought of partaking of an 
imnecessary quantity of dirt, even though it be sterilized. On 
some sidewalk fruit stands one sees cracked and shelled nuts 
ready for sale, the crevices and intricate convolutions affording 
the best possible hiding places for dust. In the majority of 
shops, too, dried fruits like dates and figs, though kept inside on 

267 



2 68 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

the counters, are habitually left uncovered and may gather the 
dust of weeks, before some purchaser appears. 

If a resident of New York or of any other large city will con- 
sider the amount of dust which gathers on her polished table 
tops in twenty-four hours ; if she will remember how many times 
she must wash her hands during the day to keep them even 
moderately presentable ; if she will think of the city streets, with 
their unspeakable slime on wet days, and their layer of dirt in 
dry weather agitated by the wind, the street cleaner and the 
brooms of housemaid and marketman, whose virtuous clouds of 
dust she dodges every morning on her way to school or business ; 
if she recalls the ugly spots on the pavement left by the free and- 
easy citizen who disregards the imperious "Don't Spit" of the 
Health Department; if she will pause to mediate upon the flies, 
swarming to bestow their attentions impartially upon decaying 
refuse in the garbage-pail and the grocer's fresh fruit, so tempt- 
ingly laid out next door; if, I say, to these observations she will 
add a little reading on the subject of germs and germ-carried 
diseases, she will certainly take the next opportunity to plead 
with her dealer to keep his wares under cover. And he will 
reply, respectfully but firmly, as my grocer repUed to me when I 
described to him the feelings with which I viewed his berries 
exposed upon a Third Avenue sidewalk: 

"I know that what you say is all true, and I wouldn't like my- 
self, to eat berries that have been out in the dust all day, — and 
besides, we lose a lot of stock by drying up. I'd be glad enough 
to keep them inside, but what can I do? If customers don't see 
things right under their noses, they think they haven't any 
selection at all, and competition is too keen here on Third 
Avenue to risk losing trade." 

And so, when I passed his shop later in the day, though the 
gas mains w^ere being repaired, and for the space of a dozen 
yards around his comer the dirt was piled up five feet high; 
though a young hurricane was blowing and clouds of Third 
Avenue dust were fiUing the air, I saw his sidewalk display in its 
accustomed place headed by some dozen boxes of discouraged 
looking strawberries, whose forlorn and wilted condition testified 
that they had stood their ground courageously since early morning. 
The Health Department of New York City officially recognizes 
the danger of the contamination of certain food stuffs by exposure 



1909] An Abuse in the Distribution of Food Stuffs 269 

to the city air. Section 46 of the Sanitary Code reads as 
follows : 

"No breadstuffs.cake, pastry, dried or preserved fruits, candies 
or confectionery shall be kept, sold or offered for sale outside of a 
building in the City of New York, or in any street or public place, 
unless they be kept properly covered so that they shall be pro- 
tected from dust and dirt." 

In accordance with this regulation the "ambulant vendors" of 
such wares have been obliged to supply their carts with glass 
covers, — which they carefully fold back during rush hours, in 
order not to obstruct the view of their stock-in-trade. Evi- 
dently the demand is good, and the policeman on the beat in- 
different, as for every candy push-cart properly covered, one may 
count twenty-five or more wide open to the winds of heaven and 
to the seeds of contagion which those winds bear upon their wings. 
Some of these vendors seem to recognize that a layer of dust upon 
their wares is likely to discourage the more fastidious of their 
customers, and so they keep a time-honored feather duster — one 
I saw in use was made of turkey feathers and must have been at 
least ten years old — tucked away behind the wheels to freshen 
up their stock. In the lower and more crowded districts of the 
city one may see the law still more openly violated, and rolls and 
chocolates being sold from open carts and stands with no pre- 
tense whatever of protection from the dust. Every now and 
then, of course, orders are issued from headquarters for a raid 
and the strong arm of the law sweeps a few hundred push-cart 
men into the courts, but for the most part they are left to use 
their folding covers as they please, and the crowds of working 
women and children, streaming along the sidewalks morning and 
night, purchase and swallow down these dust-laden delicacies 
together with their dangerous freight. If the system of policing 
which nature has set up within the body for the arrest and 
detention of invaders were not far more effective than any we 
have as yet been able to develop in our cities, doubtless there 
would be more sickness than there is now as a result of eating 
food contaminated by city dust. 

Another dangerous custom, at present apparently permitted 
by law, is the sale from open carts and stands of melons and pine- 
apples by the slice. In some parts of the city it is no unusual 
sight to see a cart supplied with a goodly stock of these slices, 



270 The Journal of Howe Economics [June 

which the thrifty dealer has prepared beforehand to tempt the 
appetite of the office-boy or the school-child during his brief 
luncheon-period. Fancy can scarcely outdistance fact in pictur- 
ing the condition of these moist and succulent dainties after they 
have been exposed for half an hour on a dusty, windy thorough- 
fare. 

Granting, as every thoughtful and well informed person must, 
that such conditions in the distribution of food are a menace to 
the health, and thus to the welfare of the community, how may 
we most effectively secure their abolition ? 

At first sight, nothing seems easier. Here is a pure food 
campaign in which we do not need the services of the expert 
chemist or microscopist to determine for us the exact nature of 
the harmful adulterant. With that adulterant we are all too well 
acquainted, we know its possible harmful effects upon the system, 
and we can see with our own eyes the manner of its incorporation 
into the food stuff. We do not need extensive legislation — a few 
terse sentences of a city ordinance, rigidly enforced, would solve 
the problem completely. The difficulty lies, not in making the 
law, but in enforcing it. What we need behind such an ordi- 
nance to make it effective is public opinion — the opinion of the 
housekeeper with money for the day's marketing in her pocket, 
who is, in the last analysis, the employee of the green-grocer; 
the opinion of the child on his way to school or to work, who is, 
at the bottom, the one really responsible for the push-cart man's 
violation of the Sanitary Code. To form public opinion is a 
long, tedious process, often a discouraging one, but continued 
planting of a good seed, together ^\ith watchful watering and 
pruning, cannot but result at last in a satisfactory crop. In a day 
when the child-student of cooking confidently shouts out" germs" 
in answer to every question whose drift she does not quite 
catch, who can say that the ground is not well broken, and that 
the teacher and the woman's club need do much more than make 
the application and persistently drive it home? 

Beginnings have already been made by both these agencies. 
In the "discussion-paper" appended to the bulletin on Bacteri- 
ology of the Household, issued in February 1909 by the New York 
State College of Agriculture, and intended to be circulated 
throughout its admirable system of Reading Clubs for Farmers' 
Wives, we find the following as the first question: 



1909] An Abuse in the Distribution of Food Stuffs 271 

"The exposure to dust in open store windows and in wagons of 
fruit and vegetables to be used on the table is dangerous because 
the products collect on their surfaces germs which may be com- 
municated to the consumer. Would it not encourage care on the 
part of the seller if housewives combined to object to purchase 
such provisions ? Discuss . ' ' 

This is a pertinent suggestion. The concerted demand of the 
consumer, backed by his capital, small in the case of the indi- 
vidual but tremendous in the aggregate, has absolute power to 
dictate selling conditions — nay, even the conditions of manu- 
facture. 

The Food Committee of the Consumers' League of New York 
City has gone into the campaign against unclean methods of 
retailing foodstuffs with vigor and initiative, and has published 
literature which will materially assist the teacher in bringing the 
question of food-contamination forcibly before her class. In 
three languages — English, Italian, and Yiddish — it publishes in 
folder and in calendar form its Sanitary Maxims. The calendar 
is headed by a picture in colors, and is suitable for hanging on the 
wall of kitchen or living-room. The Maxims set forth in terse 
sentences and with the authority which print carries with it, 
especially in the eyes of children, just what one should expect of 
one's provision dealer in the matter of keeping his goods off the 
street, properly covered, protected from flies, in clean utensils, 
handled by clerks in cleanly costume and with clean hands and 
nails, together with succinct directions for selecting fresh meats, 
fish, fowl and milk. This literature is sent free of charge in any 
reasonable quantity to those who can make good use of it, and 
the folders make a most practical addition to a child's cooking 
note-book. Besides the Maxims, the Committee publishes also a 
Circular Letter to Grocers, which quotes the provisions of the 
Sanitary Code relative to the improper exposure of foodstuffs, 
explains the danger caused by dirt and flies, defines a model 
market, and asks for co-operation in setting "a high standard 
of Sanitation and Cleanliness in the handling and sale of food." 
This publication may be had also by applying to the Food 
Committee at the offices of the City League, 105 E. 2 2d Street, 
New York. Several local associations of retail grocers, notably 
in the better parts of the city, have endorsed the Letter and 
adopted its recommendations wherever these required a change 



272 The Journal of Home Economics [Jur.e 

in store administration. A tremendous amount, however, still 
remains to be accomplished by individual effort. Members of 
the Committee, armed with the literature as described above, 
take a section — a certain number of blocks along some avenue 
near their homes — and sally forth to visit the provision stores, 
explain the object of the committee, and induce the cleanest and 
most progressive dealer to set the fashion of a raised standard, 
assuring him that his efforts will be rewarded by increased 
custom. This method of personal investigation has proved 
remarkably successful, and were it to be supplemented, as it 
could more easily be in almost any other city than in New York, 
by concerted action among the housewives in that section, re- 
sults would be surprisingly quick to follow. 

A plan which has worked well in a school of my acquaintance 
is to get the girls in the cooking classes thoroughly interested, 
furnish them with literature, and set them, with the aid of their 
mothers, to investigating the conditions of food-distribution in 
their own neighborhoods. Quite apart from the results ac- 
complished in the improvement of the provision-shops, the new 
interest with which the children observe neighborhood conditions 
is striking, and cannot but help to make them better members of 
the community, as well as more thoughtful spenders. If, in addi- 
tion, some sort of an organization be formed — a school chapter, 
for example, of the City Consumers' League, a tremendous vogue 
will be given to the movement, and meetings may be planned at 
which good speakers shall talk to the members and their friends 
on pure foods, home sanitation, civic hygiene, and other Home 
Economics themes. The children will look up the regulations of 
the local health board and report violations, the secretary send- 
ing a complaint to the proper authorities in the name of the 
School Chapter. In high schools, where the students are suffi- 
ciently mature, interest may be guided towards the other objects 
of the Consumers' League — improving the condition of women 
and children employed in retail stores, child-labor legislation, 
factory and tenement house inspection, and the movement to 
abolish the sweat shop with its attendant evils of the distribution 
of infection and the depression of the standard of wages. Surely, 
Home Economics broadly conceived involves a recognition of the 
fact that the woman to whom is intrusted the spending of the 
family income can and does profotmdly influence economic and 



iqoq] An Abuse in the Distribution of Food Stuffs 273 

industrial conditions for good or evil. Children in the high school 
are not too young to leam this lesson; and to my mind, among 
the many lessons which the science of the home has to teach, 
there is none greater than this — stamped upon young minds at 
their most impressionable period — of social responsibility and of 
social service. 

We seem to have wandered far afield from our dusty fruits and 
our uncovered candies. Not so. The experiment in Home 
Economics outlined above has been successfully tried, and the 
young citizens who go out from that school go not only with 
information on the subject of "germs" to keep them from 
patronizing the push-cart, but with the sense of social responsi- 
bility which will help form that sound public opinion needed be- 
hind every law, whether it aim to promote physical or moral 
well-being, before it can accomplish fully the good for which it 
was intended. 

The Cost of Cleanness, Mrs. Ellen H. Richards. John Wiley & Sons 
New York City. $1.00. 

Mrs. Richards' last book, The Cost of Cleanness, has called out many 
favorable press notices. The following sentences are taken from a column 
article in the New York Times Saturday Review of Books, Januar^^ 9th, 
under the title. The Cost and Economy of Banishing Dirt. "In this 
volume Mrs. Richards works out the cost of being clean in person, house, 
food, and city, and compares it with the demonstrated cost of ignoring 
dirt in any or all of those particulars. 

"The author makes a rough estimate that in the United States there are 
wasted each year $500,000,000 in unnecessary sickness due to unclean 
ways, besides the loss in earning capacity due to lessened efficiency where 
there has been no actual illness. This loss in efficiency due to unclean 
air, unclean food, and low ideals of personal and municipal cleanliness, she 
insists upon as one of the most important factors of the question. Mrs. 
Richard's book is concise and condensed to the point of bluntness. Each 
sentence is a bullet for compactness and energy of propulsion." 



FLIES AND TYPHOID FEVER —MEASURES FOR DOING 
AWAY WITH THESE PESTS. 

In a bulletin of the Department of Agriculture which has just 
been published, entitled Economic Loss to the People of the 
United States Through Insects that Carry Disease", Dr. L. O. 
Howard, Chief of the Bureau of Entomology, has summed up 
and discusses some of his own valuable researches together with 
the work of other investigators. Mosquitoes and their relation 
to yellow fever and malaria, the "typhoid fly commonly known 
as the house fly," and endemic diseases as affecting the progress 
of nations, are the questions which Dr. Howard considers. The 
United States he believes, "is just awakening to a knowledge of 
the disastrous results following a lack of appreciation of the 
danger arising from the unchecked development of mosquitoes 
and the typhoid fly, and it is hoped that this bulletin will not only 
emphasize this danger, but will also lend support to movements, 
both local and widespread, toward the destruction (often so easy) 
of these carriers of disease." 

The bulletin is of great value as well as interest. In view of 
the importance of spreading information regarding the great 
household pest, — the fly — it seems desirable to quote extensively 
from Dr. Howard's most useful treatise: 

"The typhoid or house fly is a general and common carrier of 
pathogenic bacteria. It may carry typhoid fever, Asiatic 
cholera, dysentery, cholera morbus, and other intestinal diseases; 
it may carry the bacilli of tuberculosis and certain eye diseases ; 
it is everywhere present, and it is disposed of with comparative 
ease. It is the duty of every individual to guard so far as pos- 
sible against the occurrence of flies upon his premises. It is the 
duty of every community, through its board of health, to spend 
money in the warfare against this enemy of mankind. This 
duty is as pronounced as though the community were attacked 
by bands of ravenous wolves. 

"As a matter of fact, large sums of money are spent annually in 
the protection of property in the United States. Large sums of 
money are spent also in health matters ; but the expenditure for 
protection from flies is very small and is misdirected." 

-^U. S. Dept. Agr. Bur. Ent. Bull. 78. 

274 



1909] Flies and Typhoid Fever 275 

"The danger of the typhoid or house fly in the carriage of dis- 
ease has thus been abundantly demonstrated. Further than 
this, it is an intolerable nuisance. With mosquitoes it necessi- 
tates an annual outlay for window and door screens in the United 
States of not less than ten millions of dollars. As a carrier of 
disease it causes a loss of many millions of dollars annually. 

"As an agency in the spread of other intestinal diseases, this 
sum must be greatly increased, and yet it is allowed to breed 
unrestricted all over the United States; it is allowed to enter 
freely the houses of the great majority of our people ; it is allowed 
to spread bacteria freely over our food supplies in the markets and 
in the kitchen and dining rooms of private houses, and, to use the 
phraseology of Dr. Theobald Smith, when we go into public 
restaurants in midsummer we are compelled to fight for our food 
with the myriads of house flies which we find there alert, per- 
sistent and invincible. 

"Even if the typhoid or house fly were a creature difficult to de- 
stroy, the general failure on the part of communities to make 
any efforts whatever to reduce its numbers could properly be 
termed criminal neglect; but since, as will be shown, it is com- 
paratively an easy matter to do away with the plague of flies, this 
neglect becomes an evidence of ignorance or of a carelessness in 
regard to disease-producing filth which to the informed mind 
constitutes a serious blot on civilized methods of life. 

"li we allow the accumulation of filth we will have house flies, 
and if we do not allow it to accumulate we will have no house 
flies. With the careful collection of garbage in cans and the re- 
moval of the contents at more frequent intervals than 10 days, 
and with the proper regulation of abattoirs, and more parti- 
cularly with the proper regulation of stables in which horses are 
kept, the typhoid fly will become a rare species. It will not be 
necessary to treat horse manure with chlorid of lime or with 
kerosene or with a solution of Paris green or arsenate of lead, if 
stable men are required to place the manure daily in a properly 
covered receptacle and if it is carried away once a week." 

The orders of the health department of the District of Columbia 
if carried out would be very effective in any community 
for doing away with or greatly diminishing these dangerous 
insects. These orders Dr. Howard has briefly condensed as 
follows : 



276 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

"All stalls in which animals are kept shall have the surface of 
the ground covered with a water-tight floor. Every person oc- 
cupying a building where domestic animals are kept shall main- 
tain, in connection therewith, a bin or pit for the reception of 
manure, and pending the removal from the premises of the 
manure from the animal or animals shall place such manure in 
said bin or pit. This bin shall be so constructed as to exclude 
rain water, and shall in all other respects be water-tight, except 
as it may be connected with the public sewer. It shall be pro- 
vided with a suitable cover and constructed so as to prevent the 
ingress and egress of flies. No person owning a stable shall keep 
any manure or permit any manure to be kept in or upon any 
portion of the premises other than the bin or pit described, nor 
shall he allow any such bin or pit to be overfilled or needlessly 
uncovered. Horse manure may be kept tightly rammed into 
well-covered barrels for the purpose of removal in such barrels. 
Every person keeping manure in any of the more densely popu- 
lated parts of the District shall cause all such manure to be re- 
moved from the premises at least twice every week between 
June I and October 31, and at least once every week between 
November i and May 3 1 of the following year. No person shall 
remove or transport any manure over any public highway in any 
of the more densely populated parts of the District except in a 
tight vehicle, which, if not inclosed, must be effectually covered 
with canvas, so as to prevent the manure from being dropped. 
No person shall deposit manure removed from the bins or pits 
within any of the more densely populated parts of the District 
without a permit from the health officer. Any person violating 
any of these provisions shall, upon conviction thereof,be pimished 
by a fine of not more than $40 for each offense. 

"In addition to this excellent ordinance, others have been 
issued from the health department of the District of Columbia 
which provide against the contamination of exposed food by flies 
and by dust. The ordinances are excellently worded so as to 
cover all possible cases. They provide for the registration of all 
stores, markets, cafes, lunch rooms, or of any other place where 
food or beverage is manufactured or prepared for sale, stored for 
sale, offered for sale, or sold, in order to facilitate inspection and 
still more recent ordinances provide for the registration of stables. 
An excellent campaign was begun during the summer of 1908 



I 



1909] Flies and Typhoid Fever 277 

against insanitary lunch rooms and restaurants. A number of 
cases were prosecuted, but conviction was found to be difficult." 

For one reason or another, Dr. Howard states, the chief one 
being the lack of a sufficient force of inspectors under the control 
of the health officers, the ordinance in regard to stables has not 
been carried out in the District of Columbia with that perfection 
which the situation demands. In the summer of 1896, the 
health officer of the District, designated a region in Washington 
which was to be watched by men connected with the Bureau of 
Entomology. Twenty-four stables were located in this region 
and were visited weekly by two assistants chosen for the purpose. 
"The result was that on the whole the manure was well looked 
after and the number of flies in the region in question was very 
considerably reduced during the time of inspection." 

As regards the cost of such sanitary work in cities and towns 
the following figures for the District of Columbia inspection are of 
interest. 

"Were simple inspection of stables all that is needed, a force of 
four inspectors, specially detailed for this work, could cover the 
District of Columbia, examining every stable, after they were 
once located and mapped, once a week. The average salary of an 
inspector is $1,147, so that the total expense for the first year 
would be something like $4,500. But the inspectors' service is 
complicated by the matter of prosecution. Much of the time of 
inspectors would be taken in the prosecution of the owners of 
neglected premises. Moreover, the health officer has found 
during the summer of 1908, in his prosecution of the owners or 
managers of insanitary restaurants, that his inspectors were 
practically sworn out of court by the multiplicity of opposing 
evidence. This means that it will be necessary in such cases to 
send two inspectors together in all cases, so that the testimony of 
one may be supported by the testimony of the other. This, per- 
haps, would double the number of necessary inspectors, making 
the expense of the service something over $9,000. It is reason- 
ably safe to state, however, that with such an expense for compe- 
tent service, or perhaps with a slightly added expense, the 
typhoid fly could be largely eliminated as an element in the 
transfer of disease in the District of Columbia, and the difficulty 
which the authorities have had in locating the cause of a very 
considerable proportion of the cases of typhoid in the District 



278 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

for the past two or three years indicates plainly to the mind of 
the writer that the typhoid fly is a much more important element 
than has been supposed. It is a comforting although compara- 
tively insignificant fact and a matter of common observation that 
in certain sections of the city the typhoid fly has been much less 
numerous during the past summer than in previous years. The 
writer is inclined to attribute this to the gradual disappearance 
of horse stables in such sections, brought about by the rapidly 
increasing use of motor vehicles." 

In the campaign against flies the Department of Agriculture 
has been active for the past ten years or more. 

In 1900 the Bureau of Entomology published a Farmers' 
Bulletin" entitled, How Insects Affect Health in Rural Districts, 
and up to the present time 192,000 copies of this bulletin have 
been distributed among the people. 

"Moreover, a number of years ago a circular* was published 
on the subject of the house fly, calling attention to its dangers 
and giving instructions such as are covered in a general way in 
this article, and some 18,000 copies of this circular have also been 
distributed. This is an indication that the General Govern- 
ment is by no means blind to the people's needs in such matters 
as we have under consideration, but further work should be done." 

That the English Government is awaking to the same need is 
shown by the fact that, in the parliamentary vote of the present 
year in aid of scientific investigations concerning disease, one of 
the projects supported by the General Government was an 
investigation on flies as carriers of disease. 

In view of all the facts it seems as if every thinking person 
must agree with Dr. Howard's conclusion that: "As for the 
typhoid fly, that a creature born in indescribable filth and 
absolutely swarming with disease germs should practically be 
invited to multiply unchecked, even in great centers of popula- 
tion, is surely nothing less than criminal." 

The following quotation from a recent bulletin of the Buffalo 
Board of Health is of interest in connection with the above 
discussion. 



"\J. S. Dept. Agriculture, Farmers' Bull. No. 155. 

*U. S. Dept. Agriculture, Bureau of Entomology, Circ. No. 35. This was 
issued in 189 1, and afterwards reissued in revised form as Circular No. 71 



1909] Flies and Typhoid Fever 279 

"Flies thrive on filth. Make it impossible for the fly to exist, 
by keeping everything in and about your premises clean. The 
larvae of the house fly live only in stable manure, excrement and 
garbage. If you remove the opportunity for propagation the 
fly must eventually become extinct. 

"Remove every particle of filth, dirt, accumulations of all de- 
cayed or useless material in and about your premises. 

"Do not allow any refuse matter to accumulate. 

"Bum all table refuse. 

"Keep cuspidors clean. 

"Place your garbage in a can with a tight cover. Every time 
the can is emptied, sprinkle it with oil, lime or other disinfectant. 

"Screen your doors and windows. 

"Keep all stable manure in a covered receptacle, and clean it 
out frequently. 

"Flies breed in manure, excrement, garbage and dirt. If you 
deprive the insect of breeding places there will soon be no flies. 

"Screen or cover all food, whether it is on your table or other 
places in your home, or whether it is exposed for sale in a store or 
market. 

"Bum pyrethrum powder in the house. It will kill most of the 
flies and stun the others, so that they may be swept up and 
burned." 

Town and City. The Gulick Hygiene Series, Frances G. Jewett, pp. 270, 
illustrated. Boston: Ginn & Co. Price $.60. 

A reader for school children which presents the subject of municipal 
sanitation briefly but so vividly that much of it will be remembered. 
The chapters on Garbage, Preventable Disease, Discovery of Disease Germs, 
and Safeguards against Epidemics, are capital. Lecturers to popular 
audiences will find its style most suggestive, and its matter very quotable. 
— Mary Urie Watson. 



THE FACTORS OF COST OF BOARD ON MINNESOTA 

FARM HOMES. 

Those who have read the paper on The Factors of Cost of 
Board on Minnesota Farm Homes by Thomas P. Cooper in the 
first number of this Journal will be interested to see the bulletin 
just published by the United States Department of Agriculture of 
which he is joint author with Edward C. Parker, entitled, The 
Cost of Producing Minnesota Farm Products, 1902-1907'^. Such 
studies as are here reported are fundamental to the adequate dis- 
cussion of economic questions relating to rural life and welfare, 
and also supply data of value in the discussion of similar 
problems in town and city homes where little or nothing is pro- 
duced but where practically everything is purchased. 

The bulk of the report is taken up with the discussion of data 
regarding the cost of producing different farm crops, the cost of 
farm labor, statistics regarding cost of production and care of 
live stock, and similar matters. Those portions of the summary 
which have to do with the average wages on farms, cost of farm 
board, and the length of a farmers' working day are quoted 
below. It is to be regretted that the authors were not able to col- 
lect data for the discussion of the relative amount of labor 
performed by the farmer's wife, the length of woman's working 
day on the farm and similar questions. 

"For the years 1904-1907, the average monthly wages paid 
farm laborers during the eight 'crop-season' months, April i to 
November 30, were approximately as follows: Northfield 
(1905-1907), $26.16; Marshall, $26.64; Halstad, $25.56; and 
the large farm in northwestern Minnesota, $26.77. During the 
months of December, January, February and March the average 
monthly wage at Northfield was $15.80; Marshall, $14.20; 
Halstad, $1 1.69 ; and the large farm in northwestern Minnesota, 
$14-36. 

"The cost of farm board per month for one laborer, averaged 
for the three years 1905-1907, amounted to $14.36 at Northfield, 
$12.73 at Marshall, $11.58 at Halstad, and $10.02 on the large 
grain farm in northwestern Minnesota. The average cost per 



"U. S. Dept. Agr. Bur. Statistics, Bull. 73. 
280 



1909] The Factors of Cost of Board 281 

day was 47.9 cents at Northfield, 42.4 cents at Marshall, 38. 
cents at Halstad, and 33.4 cents for the large farm in northwestern 
Minnesota; the average cost of board per month on all farms was 
$12. 65 and per day 42 cents. 

"The average cash value per hour of farm labor on all farms, 
for the three years 190 5- 190 7, is 11.2 cents for December, 
January, February and March, and 12.7 cents for the 'crop- 
season' months, April to November, inclusive. While wages are 
lower in the winter months, the number of hours worked by the 
laborers is much less than in the summer — thus there is little dif- 
ference between summer and winter in the cost per hour for farm 
labor. This cost is based upon the wages paid to men plus the 
cost for board. 

"The average length of the working day for men on the farms 
at Northfield, southeastern Minnesota, is 8.94 hours, with 3.64 
hours for Sunday work. At Marshall, in southwestern Minne- 
sota, 8.66 hours for the week days and 3.05 hours for Sundays; 
and at Halstad, in northwestern Minnesota, 8.10 hours for the 
week days and 2.76 hours for Sundays." 

. An important meeting was held early in May in London 
Higher Education ^^ Qrosvenor House for the furtherance of the higher 

. education of women in home science and economics in 
• °^^ conomics ^.Q^nection with the courses recently established at the 
1 ng an . Women's Department of King's College, London. Sir 

Arthur Riicker, F.R.S., presided, and there was a large and influential 
attendance, including the Princess Louise and the Duke of Argyll, the 
Duchess of Hamilton, Mrs. Birrell, Mr. Chapman, (Chairman of the Surrey 
Education Committee), Miss Faithfull, (Cheltenham), Mrs. Homan 
(Association of Domestic Science Teachers) , the Principal of University of 
London, the Principal of King's College, and Dr. Bovey, (Imperial College 
of Technology.) Brief addresses were made by the Earl of Lytton, the 
Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttleton, Mr. H. J. Mackinder, the Bishop of Kensing- 
ton, and Miss Alice Ravenhill. Miss Ravenhill expressed the opinion that 
the seed for the new enterprise had been sown by the schools for the train- 
ing of domestic science teachers and aided by the experience gained by 
these teachers in the elementary schools of the country. It was announced 
that donations for carrying on the work had been made amounting to 
$5,000 and that the Surrey County Council had pledged itself to maintain 
four scholarships. 



BETTERING OF TASTE IN DRESS AND HOUSE 
FURNISHING THROUGH DOMESTIC ART. 

Lana Bishop. 

Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio. 

How to influence for good taste in dress and house furnishing 
is a great problem. Domestic art is a wide field and we ask our- 
selves frequently: Are we, with all our care in trying to base 
our training on correct principles, selecting those things which 
are most vital for making the girls as they grow to young woman- 
hood, efficient thinkers and workers as homemakers and good 
citizens? 

Each girl, whether she is to enter the industrial field or become 
the head of a home, should receive such training as will enable 
her to meet and solve intelligently the problems which will come 
to her from time to time, not only from the practical standpoint, 
but from the economic and artistic side as well. 

Good taste in dress is the faculty of being able to select and 
combine such materials, and to so adjust them to the figure, as 
to produce a perfect harmony. 

Common sense should overrule the aspirant to successful 
dressing. Fashion often leads us far astray from the path of 
refined taste, and the prevailing shapes and colors must be 
modified according to the individual style and personality of the 
wearer or the results will be unsatisfactory to herself and to the 
friends whom she wishes to please. We are told that Queen 
Alexandra of England, is the best dressed woman of today, and 
why ? She has made a study of what is most becoming to her as 
an individual, and no matter what is fashionable, she chooses 
that which is adaptable to her particular style. 

Our best designers of gowns find most inspiring examples of 
color and designs for costumes, in the world's great picture galle- 
ries, where priceless portraits painted by old masters are hung. 

Since our comfort and piece of mind depend largely upon our 
surroundings, the home should be a haven or rest. The old idea was 
that a beautiful home must necessarily be expensive and elab- 
orate, but we now agree with the Japanese in his ideas of what is 
good in household art, and have learned to appreciate true 
beauty in simple things. 

282 



1909] Bettering of Taste in Dress 283 

In the study of house decorations, as well as in the study of 
dress, we take into consideration the fitness to purpose, simple 
line, color combinations and appropriate materials. Each room 
in the house should receive careful thought, making the whole a 
harmonious color scheme. 

Quoting from an article recently written: "In the matter of 
furnishing we ought to bear in mind that upon utility must all 
idea of decoration and ornament finally rest, and that an over- 
dressed house, is, were that possible, in worse taste than an over- 
dressed woman." 

How can we, through domestic art, help the girls to appreciate 
all this? Begin early — with the very young children, working 
out simple problems, regulating the work according to the age, 
and gradually cover all the general principles, opening to the 
girls, step by step as they grow older, that side of life which 
rightfully belongs to them. Give them the history of textiles 
from the prehistoric ages, the time of the origin of tools to the 
present system of factories, where thousands of yards of ma- 
terials are made daily; show them how to sew from the coarse 
stitches on canvas to the finest of French embroidery; teach 
them how to buy by making them familiar with all kinds of 
fabrics ; help them to appreciate good design through their study 
of color, line and form and their application to materials. 

The grace that comes from a mind trained to appreciate real 
beauty in simple things is what all women should secure. A 
woman who has secured this is a success both in the home and in 
society. 

A great deal of attention should be given to the girl who is to 
become one of the great army of industrial workers. According 
to recent reports, there are 6,000,000 women in the United States 
who are gainfully employed. We find that in 72 of the 78 cities 
having 50,000 inhabitants, more than one-third of the girls be- 
tween 16 and 20 years of age are at work. In 36 of these cities 
more than one-half are earning their living, and in 8 the rate 
rises as high as 69% and even 77% of the total number of girls. 
Nearly all occupations are open to them, and many industries 
which require skilled labor depend upon women for their finest 
workmanship. Although among this army of young women 
workers we find many trained for their various lines, a large 
majority are in the imskilled class and perhaps have begun as 



284 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

cash girls or errand girls when only fourteen years of age. If a 
girl is unusually bright, she may rise to a good position, but in 
many cases the wage continues low in the scale and the results 
are sometimes serious. The young mind is susceptible to all 
sorts of temptations, her taste is undeveloped and her judgment 
is crude. Her desire to dress as other people do, leads her to buy 
beyond what she can afford, or to select inappropriate materials 
far removed from the artistic lines a person of more mature or 
trained mind would choose. 

Employers are calling for trained workers in dressmaking, 
millinery and power-machine operating trades, and other skilled 
occupations for women, but the number ready to respond is 
small. 

The apparent need for a place where girls could receive such 
training led to the establishment of the Boston Trade School for 
Girls in 1904. Two years previous the Manhattan Trade School 
in New York was started and it had grown to be very strong in its 
work — a model well worth copying. In the main the two schools 
are much the same, but owing to some differences in trade re- 
quirements of the two cities, certain lines are emphasized more in 
one than in the other. 

The funds were raised by private subscription, a residence was 
rented and equipped, and the school opened with 14 girls which 
number increased to 50 before the end of the first year. As funds 
would permit, more space in the w^ay of an adjoining residence 
has been added, and now this busy workshop accommodates 170 
girls while more wait an opportunity to enter. 

The school has proven its worth over and over again. It is 
impossible to estimate its value to the pupil or to the employer. 
At first employment was sought for the girls, now they cannot be 
trained fast enough to meet the demand. As the girls go out into 
the trade, an influence for better physical, moral and economic 
conditions among the industrial workers is gradually making 
itself felt, and life to the girls themselves is much happier for 
their having had a training at the trade school. 

Our work in Domestic Art must be broad, dealing with all 
phases of the subject, influencing for better conditions in all places 
and teaching the girls how to live in their particular environment. 



I 



TEXTILE STUDY IN ROCHESTER ELEMENTARY 
SCHOOLS. 

Katharine French Steiger, 

Supervisor of Domestic Art, Public Schools, Rochester, N. Y. 

The subject of Domestic Art in the school has become a many- 
sided one. In conjunction with domestic science, household 
management and the trade school it is assuming a place of vital 
importance and gradually extending its influence into the college 
and the secondary school. The reason for this grow-th is obvious. 
The object of education is to fit the boy to be a man and the girl 
to be a woman in the fullest and truest sense. The business of 
domestic management is and always has been largely in the 
hands of woman. Women are the great consumers of the world. 
They are the ones who buy the output of the enormous cotton, 
woolen and silk factories, who select the clothing for the family, 
who supply the table with linen, china and glass, and who equip 
the home with rugs, hangings and furniture. 

It would be interesting to study the effect on certain economic 
problems could the schools turn out large numbers of educated 
buyers. By educated buyers is meant those trained to dis- 
criminate intelligently between the true and the make-believe, 
in other words to know real values. There was a time when in a 
well-ordered home, a girl could learn processes of food prepara- 
tion and garment-making in companionship with her mother. 
When the industries were in the home, women spun and wove 
their own materials. They then knew the properties and uses of 
the textile fibers of which they made thread and cloth. By a 
natural process they were taught to judge goods, and our care- 
ful grandmothers when they bought materials could tell easily of 
what they were made. Today the mothers buy largely ready- 
made garments or the machine-made textile product. Under 
such economic conditions it becomes vitally important that the 
girl should early have her interest aroused in manufactures for 
domestic purposes, in other words she should be trained to a 
habit of mind which will work that way. She will then naturally 
learn to appreciate a host of phenomena to which she would 
otherwise have been oblivious. Much of the technical training 

28q 



2 86 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

may be forgotten just as she parts with her algebra or her French. 
But she cannot rid herself of certain opened brain-tracks, a quick- 
ening of mind when confronted with domestic concerns which 
will have their strong influence in making an efficient home- 
maker or wage-earner. The value to the community of this en- 
richment of the girls' experience would lie in a solution of some 
economic problems brought home to all in the increased cost of 
living and in helping woman to find her true place in the social 
system. This place should no longer be uncertain. The chang- 
ing industrial conditions have made it most difficult for young 
women to get at home even the most meager training necessary 
for the easy making of her own wearing apparel or for the acquisi- 
tion of the power of self-maintenance. These difficulties are 
slowly being recognized. The hand and brain of woman must be 
prepared somewhere for her part in the world's work whether in 
relation to the family, the shop, or the community. The prob- 
lems of wise purchase, of adjusting standards of living to the 
weekly income and of personal responsibility in the family and 
the business life, are far more difficult to bring to the pupils in 
tangible form than the teaching of needlework. How'ever, they 
are here and the faithful teacher will meet them as willingly and 
as conscientiously as she gives the technical drill to impart a 
knowledge of stitches. 

To teach Domestic Art primarily to meet a personal need re- 
gardless of economic and esthetic considerations seems like rear- 
ing a structure architecturally without a safe foundation. To be 
of worth the lesson-content should stimulate thought, training, 
judgment and taste as well as hands. The esthetic side cannot be 
ignored. One must train taste; it can not be bought. On the 
other hand the textile aspect seems to furnish a basic foundation 
for the whole superstructure. Eliminate this and the resultant 
product is like a house built upon shifting sand, rather than upon 
a composite rock of historic, economic, hygienic, esthetic and 
ethical values. A child's training should help her to find herself 
in the complex organization in which she is bom. Instead of 
being accepted as a matter of course, her clothing will be of 
vital interest when she has had a motor acquaintance with the 
processes of carding, spinning and weaving in simple form. A 
knowledge of these processes w'ill also give a broad human 
sympathy for the toiler as well as open the way to an 



I 



j«ltun*c a. aniol in. v na-'"'^ **^'^ *' 

Cam Ji* nod. aA«af 3-t<J cx^ tKl aam^ 
emd J>o J ana adaf^d to "->-i i-.-iurtK 

tM. q-iiaJi*^ iiLmi/n Jac-irtw -tm Sit 

.JLl»t>M. 

r)\l Qit^ o£ SiJ^LBt ^ tM. aim'jui of 
titft AmATT onriOl/ruVttctltnAC. 




Jlni4ij> -lid jiiJCHu Si^ '.2.' 



nJfSO 







TlotanolCi&p 



Pupils' Chari' Iliustkatixo Linfx. 




^i.KU /^.SO ^cC 



■i-t, U* 4 iO i/oC 



Pupils' Chart Illustrating Silk.' 



1909] Textile Study in Rochester 287 

intelligent understanding of many social and ethical issues of 
the day. 

In considering any school subject one must be fair and not 
lose sight of the difficulties which confront the grade teacher on 
every side. The over-large class, the time Hmit, the difficulty 
of obtaining materials and the lack of technical training on the 
part of her to whose judgment much of the development work 
must be entrusted,— all these are factors not to be overlooked. 
Notwithstanding these seeming discouragements, one must agree 
with State Superintendent Draper of New York when he says — 
"We must try very hard to have the child able to do some 
definite thing intelligently, no matter at what age we lose him." 
Even though the course be limited to two or more years of the 
elementary school, simple textile study can hardly be neglected 
if we desire a training that is lasting and results that are sure. 

In the schools of Rochester, New York the domestic art work 
consists of 

(a) A course in weaving for the four primary grades — girls 
and boy^. 

(b) A course in plain and in decorative needlework for the 
grammar grades — girls. 

The textile study of the primary grades is concerned with raw 
materials and simple processes including thread making and the 
constmction of a loom. 

The textile work of the grammar grades is more practical in 
character, with the emphasis placed on present day needs. 
Each girl purchases her own materials for the class exercise, after 
a careful discussion of samples and prices. She also makes a 
special chart study along one line using small pieces of left-over 
materials and merchants' samples for this exercise. Such charts 
are shown in the accompanying illustration. In the Rochester 
school system are three Colonial hand-looms, three Barbour 
Linen looms and several spinning wheels. The pupils of the 
sixth grade have an opportunity to use one of the looms 
for a short time. This work is optional. The modem machine 
is known only through magazine illustration, language work and 
so on. 

A few necessary notes are prepared in connection with the 
chart-study. Much of this side of the work being taught as 
language work. 



2 88 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

In all grades, talks are given on textile raw materials and 
fabrics, their relation to racial development from primitive man 
with his simple forms of weaving, to the factories whose intricate 
machinery symbolizes the comphcated life of to-day. 

Outline of the Textile Course. 

First Grade — Talks on the sheep and wool; simple story of raw 
material; washing and dyeing; meaning of warp and weft. 

Second Grade — Talks on cotton; simple story of raw material; mean- 
ing of warp, woof and selvedge. 

Third Grade — Talks on flax and hemp; carding and spinning. Mak- 
ing of primitive spindle and whorl, showing the evolution of the spinning 
wheel. Making of woolen yam. 

Fourth Grade — Simple talks on silk; worm, cocoon, raw material, 
manufactured articles. Making of crude loom with heddle and shed 
stick. 

Fifth Grade B — Brief study of cotton and flax. Chart showing raw 
materials and products. Comparison of cotton and Unen materials. 
Review of steps in weaving learned in the lower grades. 

Fifth Grade A — Talks on children's clothing. Chart showing textile 
materials suitable for different seasons and climates. Shapes of garments 
to avoid restriction; danger and discomfort of over- tight bands. 

Sixth Grade B — Brief study of wool and silk. Chart comparison of 
cotton and wool, of linen and silks, of mercerized cotton and silk, of wool 
and silk. Directions for cleansing hair- ribbons. 

Sixth Grade A — Chart study of one or more European manufactures 
(correlated with geography). Tartans, tapestries, laces, linens, silks 
(Select one) . Chart study of fast and fugitive colors. Effects of sunlight 
and alkali soaps on colored fabrics. 

Seventh Grade B — Chart study of materials suitable for a school dress; 
for use in a sick room. In selection of fabrics consider durability, suita- 
bility and cost. Removal of ink, iron rust and grease spots. 

Seventh Grade A — Make a chart study of a girl's dress, with simple 
trimmings; estimate cost. Discuss prehistoric methods of weaving, 
home processes in the Colonial period; the interdependence of home- 
processes and present-day industries. 

Eighth Grade B — Make a chart showing the relative changes pro- 
duced by shrinkage; effectsof soap and water on cottons; on woolens; on 
artificial silks. 

Eighth Grade A — By means of a chart show the use of clean.sing fluids 
other than water — naphtha, benzine, ammonia, milk, turpentine. Danger 
of gasoline, etc. Dry cleaning. Adulterations, shoddy, flocks, paper, 
cellulose. 



EX)ITORIALS. 

A A • -^s announced in the April number of the 

T,. . Journal, it seems worth while to call atten- 

Fioneer in . . , r , 

«■.... tion to the work of the early mvestigators and 

Investigations. ^'^iters on nutrition and other Home Eco- 
nomics topics, and particularly to the work of 
Americans. As yet the earliest American investigations on nu- 
trition of which record has been found are those of John R. 
Young, which are reviewed in this number. Doctor Young, of 
Hagerstown, Md., was graduated from the Medical Department 
of the University of Pennsylvania in 1803, and submitted as a 
thesis a report and discussion of investigations on the principles 
of nutrition and the digestive processes. For some time attempts 
to obtain additional information regarding Doctor Young and 
his work were unsuccessful, but as a result of correspondence with 
the Faculty of Physic of the University of Maryland it has been 
learned that Doctor Young died in Washington County, Md., on 
June 8, 1803, almost immediately after his graduation. It is 
hoped that it may be possible to secure more data regarding 
Doctor Young as his work is not only valuable in itself but has a 
special interest in connection with the history of scientific re- 
search in the United States. Unless some other institution can 
show priority, to the University of Pennsylvania belongs the 
honor of having instituted in this country the experimental 
study of nutrition problems, and Doctor Young of Maryland is 
the pioneer investigator. 

In this number of the Journal two articles 
Cleanliness in appear which have to do with the cleanliness 
Markets, Hotels of food outside the home. An examination 
and Restaurants, of the publications of State and municipal 

boards of health, of scientific and professional 
journals, and of the daily press shows that the subject of clean 
food is rapidly coming to the fore. Men and women are recogniz- 
ing that cleanliness in markets, in bakeries, on dining cars, and in 
hotels and restaurants is not a privilege but a right. Oftentimes 
the filthy practices to which we object are due to ignorance of 
what is fitting and decent. The waiter who wipes his forehead 

289 



2 go The Journal of Home Economics [June 

and a dish on the same service towel perhaps does not realize 
that what he does is objectionable, nor does the market man who 
exposes food to flies and dust, nor the baker w^ho makes cake with 
unwashed hands. Both small and large offences of this sort will 
disappear when a sufficient number of us unite our protests in an 
effective way and insist on right standards of cleanliness in all that 
concerns the production, distribution and sale of food. To cite 
an instance of the progress being made in such line, this year 
legislation has been enacted in the State of Indiana which covers 
the question in an effective and intelligent manner. 

^T , Although the equipment and occupancy of the 
Nutrition Work ^ • , \ ^ ^ d ^ ^ 

p . new Carnegie laboratory at Boston for nutn- 

^ . . f tion research, referred to elsewhere, is of 

Institution of ^ ■> ^ ^u ^- • +• 

_,- , . , comparatively recent date, the participation 

Washington. . . ^ . .^ ' . . ^- ^- ■ T •^• 

of the institution in investigations in nutrition 

is of much longer standing, this line of research being one of the 
first which it fostered. The Carnegie Institution of Washington 
early recognized the value of the metabolism experiments which 
were being carried on as a part of the nutrition investigations of 
the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and one of the earliest proj- 
ects to be undertaken (Grant No. 5) was begun in 1903 when an 
allotment of $5,000 was made to Professor W. O. Atwater for 
additional experiments in nutrition . This and a subsequent grant 
were expended largely in co-operation with the Office of Experi- 
ment Stations in the improvement of the respiration calorimeter 
at Middletown, Conn., by the addition of apparatus permitting of 
the direct measurement of the oxygen consumed by the subject. 
Following the completion and testing of the apparatus, the 
inauguration of what is believed to be the most elaborate series of 
experiments on metabolism during inanition ever undertaken 
was authorized by the Carnegie Institution and conducted under 
its auspices with the respiration calorimeter at Middletown, 
Conn., by Doctor Francis G. Benedict, who succeeded to the 
direction of the nutrition investigations at Middletown after 
illness had compelled Professor Atwater to gi\-e up all work. 

Such importance and promise attached to this project that the 
permanent recognition of nutrition research as a major depart- 
ment of the work of the institution was decided upon in 1907 and 
organized on the present permanent basis. After careful canvass 



1909] Editorials 



291 



of the situation, Boston was selected as the locaHty most favorable 
for the site of the Nutrition Laboratory, all things considered. 
About the same time as the removal of this Carnegie Institution 
nutrition work from Middletown to Boston, the Department of 
Agriculture nutrition investigations were centralized in Wash- 
ington and the respiration calorimeter removed to the new build- 
ing of the Department of Agriculture, this work being under the 
direction of C. F. Langworthy. With these changes the researches 
on human nutrition organized by Professor Atwater and covering 
20 years or more were brought to a close at Wesleyan 
University. 

The Carnegie Institution has also made numerous grants for 
projects in nutrition other than that referred to above and several 
lines of research are in progress. Among other projects may be 
mentioned the grant in 1903 to the late Professor Arthur Gamgee 
for the preparation of a report on the physiology of nutrition, the 
extensive researches on the hydrolysis of the vegetable and other 
food proteids still being conducted by Doctor T. B. Osborne of the 
Connecticut State rVgricultural Experiment Station at New 
Haven, the work carried on by Professor Russell H. Chittenden 
and his associates at the Yale Sheffield Scientific School relative 
to the minimal proteid requirements of man and other animals 
and the influence of hydrazin upon intermediary metabolism, and 
the studies of the physiology of growth, especially as regards its 
chemical processes, by Professor Lafayette B. Mendel, at the 
Sheffield Scientific School. Regarding the work of Professors 
Benedict, Osborne, Chittenden, and Mendel, an excerpt from the 
report of the President of the Carnegie Institution for 1906 is of 
interest as showing the institution's attitude toward nutrition 
research : 

"All three of these lines of research are of great practical and 
theoretical importance, whether considered independently or 
collectively. They are closely related, however, and when con- 
sidered as parts of a whole they give promise not only of exten- 
sive additions to our knowledge of the physics and chemistry of 
normal nutrition, but also of extensive additions to our know- 
ledge of the conditions of and the remedies for abnormal nutri- 
tion. All three lines of work appear to me, therefore, well worthy 
of continuous support for such periods of time as may be essential 
to secure the anticipated results." 



THE DENVER MEEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME 
ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION JULY 7-9. 1909. 

The American Home Economics Association will hold a meet- 
ing in connection with the National Education Association at 
Denver, Colo. The headquarters of the Association will be at the 
Hotel Metropole. 

The program as arranged provides for separate sessions on 
Wednesday and Thursday mornings and Wednesday evening, 
July 7 and 8. The relation of some of the National Education 
Association sessions is shown below. 

American Home Economics Association Program. 
Wednesday morning, July y. 

Round Table Conference. The High School, Opportunities 

and Duties. 

(Those who can, will be interested to attend the meeting of the National 
Education Association Department of Science Instruction Session on the 
High School, on Tuesday afternoon, July 6). 

Wednesday evening. 

A general meeting with addresses. 

It is hoped to secure as speakers : 

President Lorenzo D. Harvey, President National Education 
Association; Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, President of American Home Economics Association ; 
Dr. A. C. True, Director, Office of Experiment Stations, Department 
of Agriculture ; Mr. S. Robert Hoover, West High School, Cleveland, 
Ohio, President Department of Business Education, National 
Education Association; Doctor Thomas D. Wood, Teachers 
College, New York; President George E. McLean, President 
University of Iowa ; James F. Chamberlain, State Normal School, 
Los Angeles; Mrs. Olaf N. Guldlin, Chairman Home Economics 
Department, Federation of Women's Clubs; Miss Emma S.Jacobs, 
Director of Domestic Science, Public Schools, Washington, D. C, 
and others. 

These addresses will be followed by a social hour for acquaint- 
ance. 

292 



1909] The Denver Meeting 293 

Thursday morning, July 8. 

Round Table Conference. Teachers' Problems in Domestic 
Art and Science. 

Some of the meetings of the National Education Association on 
Thursday afternoon, Friday morning, and Friday evening are of 
special interest in relation to the program of the American Home 
Economics Association as shown by the following, selected from 
the National Education Association program. 

Thursday afternoon. 

Department of Elementary Education, National Education 

Association. 

Application of the Household Arts and Sciences to the Elemen- 
tary School — Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Boston, Mass. 

Discussion. 

Friday morning, July g. 
Department of Manual Training, National Education Association. 

Influence of Industrial Arts and Sciences upon Rural and City 
Home Life — Cree T. Work, President of College of Industrial 
Arts, Denton, Tex. 

Discussion from standpoints of: 

(a) Domestic Science — Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Instructor in 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass. 

(6) Domestic Arts — Miss Helen Schurz, Teacher of Sewing, 
High School, Topeka, Kans. 

(c) Economic Interests — Albert Salisbury, President of State 
Normal School, Whitewater, Wis. 

General discussion led by Miss Harriet A. Boyer, Head of 
Domestic Science Department, Isadore Newman Training School, 
New Orleans, La. 

Friday afternoon. 

Department of Normal Schools, National Education Association. 
Joint Meeting with the Department of Technical Education. 

1. The Training of Teachers for Industrial and Technical 
Schools — (Speaker to be supplied) . 

General discussion. 

2. Round Table Topics. 



294 The Journal of Home Economics (June 

(a) Who Should Determine Standards and Courses for the 
Training of Teachers and How Should Such Standards be Deter- 
mined? — A. O. Thomas, President of State Normal School, 
Kearney, Nebr. 

(6) Should the Normal Schools Teach Subject-Matter or 
Should Their Work Be Wholly Professional? — Francis J. Cheney, 
President of State Normal and Training School, Cortland, N. Y. 

(c) The Davis Bill in Its Relation to Normal Schools — Report 
of Special Committee on Agricultural and Industrial Education — 
Homer H. Seerley, President State Normal School, Cedar Falls, 
Iowa, Chairman. 

Members of the American Home Economics Association who 
go to Denver will be interested to consult the full program of the 
National Education Association meetings of which copies may be 
secured from the Secretary, Irwin Shepard, Winona, Minn. 

Among the features of special interest from the standpoint of Home. 
Economics are the addresses on AppUcation of the Household Arts and 
Sciences to the Elementary Schc 1, Mrs. Ellen H. Richards; How may 
the Rural Schools be More Closely Related to the Life and Needs of the 
People, by D. J. Crosby, Specialist in Agricultural Education in the Office 
of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, 
D. C; Agricultural Education for the Rural Districts, by S. A. Knapp of 
the Farmers' Cooperative Demonstration Work, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C; The Present Status of Agricultural Edu- 
cation in the Public Schools, by E. C. Bishop, Nebraska State Superin- 
tendent of Public Instruction; A High School Course in Drawing and Ap- 
plied Arts, by W. H. Elson, Superintendent of Instruction, Cleveland, 
Ohio; and the report of the committee on University Entrance Examina- 
tions in Art, by A. B. Clark, Leland Stanford Jr. University. For pro- 
grams address Irwin Shepard, Secretary, Winona, Minn. 



AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION SECOND 
ANNUAL MEETING. 

The Second Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association will be held in Boston, Mass., at the time of the winter 
meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science. December 31, 1909 and January i, 19 10, are the dates 
chosen. 

The council will meet on Thursday, December 30, as required 
by the constitution. 

Associate membership (S3.00J in the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science entitles one to the special railroad 
rates which will be secured and to participation in the many 
events planned for the week. No separate rates will be made for 
the Home Economics Association. 

The sessions will be of three kinds : 

1. A business session with opportunity for an adjourned 
meeting, for the election of officers to consider the future policy 
of the Association. Letters in regard to this may be sent to the 
Secretary by those who cannot be present. The fullest expression 
of opinion is desirable as the Association must be thoroughly 
democratic in character. The "trial" policy of the year should 
make this possible. 

2 . One or two sessions with short addresses for inspiration and 
encouragement from the leading men and women who will be in 
Boston during the week. 

3. A social session for better acquaintance. 

The annual dinner of the Association will be held on Friday 
evening. 

A strong Xew England section is being organized and will 
serve as a local committee. 



295 



MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

At the meeting of the Executive Committe of the American 
Home Economics Association in New York City on Saturday, 
April 24th, a certificate of incorporation was drawn up and 
formal action taken to incorporate the Association, pursuant to 
the membership corporation law of the State of New York. 
The certificate was later approved by Justice Dowling, of the 
New York Supreme Court, and officially recorded in the office of 
the Secretary of the State of New York, on May 12th. The 
formal incorporators were the members of the Executive Com- 
mittee present at the meeting, Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Miss 
Helen Kinne, Mrs. Ahce P. Norton, Miss Mary S. Snow, Mr. 
B. R. Andrews, and Dr. C. F. Langworthy, and these persons, 
with Miss Isabel Bevier, Miss Caroline L. Hunt, Miss Emma 
Jacobs, and Miss Mary U. Watson, who together form the 
Executive Committee of the Association, are by the articles of 
incorporation made the "directors" of the corporation until its 
first legal meeting. To meet the requirements of law, the 
Association will at that meeting re-adopt its by-laws and re-affirm 
its choice of directors. 

At the meeting on April 24th the Executive Committee voted 
to hold the next meeting of the Association in Boston, December 
31 and January i. The Council of the Association will, accord- 
ing to the constitution, meet on the day preceding, viz, 
December 30, 1909. 

The Committee voted to ask Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, of 
Baltimore, to become Editor of the Journal of Home 
Economics, with the cooperation of the Executive Committee 
of the Association, beginning with the September issue Mrs. Abel 
has since accepted this position. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, 

Secretary. 



296 



SCHOOL OF HOUSEHOLD ARTS. 

Teachers College, New York. 

The Trustees of Teachers College, Columbia University, 
recently approved the establishment of a School of Household 
Arts, which is to continue and amplify the instruction for many 
3^ears carried on by the Departments of Domestic Science and 
Art at Teachers College. It proposes to be a school of collegiate 
rank, devoted to the household arts and sciences and intended 
to train not only teachers of these subjects, for public and col- 
legiate education, but also professional workers who will find 
service as managers of large domestic and institutional house- 
holds, and in their special constituent fields, as hospital manage- 
ment, dietetics, interior decoration, laundry management, etc. 

The hew building of the School of Household Arts, will be 
fully completed and equipped at the opening of the next academic 
year, in vSeptember. Joining the main building of the College 
it extends i6o feet along 121st Street, with a depth of 60 feet, 
thus affording over an acre of floor space. There are five floors, 
abasement, and a tower of two additional stories. The basement 
will contain two laboratories for laundering, and lockers and 
dressing rooms. The ground floor will be devoted to offices, 
lecture rooms and the departmental libraries and museums. 
The second floor will contain three large and several small cook- 
ing laboratories ; the third will provide equal accommodations 
for work in garment making, dressmaking, millinery and allied 
lines. On the fourth floor there will be six laboratories for food 
chemistry and the physiology of nutrition. The fifth will be 
devoted to instruction in designing house construction and 
decoration, textiles and costumes, and to a model experimental 
apartment of seven rooms and a laboratory for nutrition research. 

The School of Household Arts will offer, for teachers, degree 
and diploma courses in the teaching of domestic art, domestic 
science, and hospital economy ; in preparation for technical call- 
ings, it will offer certificate courses in household administration, 
dietetics, and house decoration; opportunity is offered for 
specialization in other professional lines as costume design, 
institutional laundries, social work, etc., and over a score of 
"special classes" offer practical training in various lines. 

297 



NEWS FROM INSTITUTIONS. 

The Florida State College for Women at Tallahassee, 
Florida State ^^^ established in 1905. At the same time the Uni- 

Lollege. versity of Florida was founded for men. While both 

colleges maintain the same standard for entrance and for graduation, yet 
the authorities recognize the right of women to have their special needs 
considered, and they have placed home economics on an exact equality 
with mathematics, history and the classics. Domestic science and domes- 
tic art are electives in the Freshman and Sophomore years in the course 
leading to the B. S. degree in the College of Liberal Arts, and in the School 
for Teachers sewing is required in the second year and cookery in the third. 
The Science Department offers courses in household and economic botany 
and in domestic science chemistry which follow the two years work in the 
Home Economics Department. 

Within the next year it is hoped to have a new building with all modem 
equipment. Just now the Department occupies three rooms: a large 
laboratory kitchen, a dining room and a sewing room. 

Seventy young women are enrolled in the Department out of a total 
enrollment of two hundred in the College. 

Miss Catherine A. Mulligan, the Professor of Home Economics is 
again to have charge of the work in Domestic Science at the Summer 
School of the South, at Knoxville, Tenn., June 22-July 30. 

Miss Edith Greer, Director of the Department of 

Domestic Science, Pratt Institute, will remain abroad 
Institute. ..-I c 4^ u 

until beptember. 

The Dietitian Courses at Pratt Institute are exceptionally popular. 
The field for the trained dietitian is broadening so rapidly that supply and 
demand are completely unbalanced. The women of maturity who are 
willing to take a year of disciplinary training have an assured and very 
interesting outlook. 

Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, has this winter been conducting a course of 
lectures on nutrition in which many prominent scientists have appeared. 
Among the lecturers have been Dean Russell of the College of Agriculture 
of the University of Wisconsin, and Professor Chittenden of Yale Uni- 
versity. 

The Home Economics Club of Teachers College, held 
Teachers College, a meeting on Wednesday, March 10, 1909. The pur- 
pose of the meeting as outlined by the president. Miss 
Elizabeth Johnson, was to clear up many questions that had arisen as to 
how to organize a Home Economics Club, what such a club could do, and 
how the club could be made valuable to its members and the community. 
Miss Kinne, the first speaker, urged that informal organization was 
often the best way to start a professional society. As a concrete instance, 
the origin of the New York Home Economics Association was cited, which 

298 



i 



1909] Neil's From Institutions 299 

grew out of informal meetings called to discuss the warfare against tuber- 
culosis. The opportunity to address mothers' clubs was emphasized as a 
valuable means of reaching the homes, also the inspiration to be gained 
from such meetings and from the open discussions which follow. The 
need of a practical, rather than a theoretical basis for the subject presented 
to such clubs, was pointed out as of vital importance. Adaptation to the 
surroundings and the audience was mentioned as a ver\' desirable attribute 
in such addresses. 

Miss Lydia Southard, the next speaker, took as her theme the thought 
from Emerson: "He who gives us better homes, better books, better 
tools, a fairer outlook and a better hope, him will we crown with laurels." 
An atmosphere of contentment and repose was cited as a great need of the 
home in addition to the improvement in cooking, sanitation and house 
furnishing, which is the usual object in home economics teaching. Miss 
Southard suggested the possibility of a wide field for the Home Economics 
Club in furnishing information with regard to rentals, marketing and other 
shopping facilities to strangers coming to live in the city, and to present 
residents who may desire such information. As to better books, the point 
was made that not only were technical and popular books relating to the 
home desirable, but also books that will "stimulate thought in new chan- 
nels, books to broaden and truly educate." Investigation and reports 
upon the value of labor-saving devices which tempt the housewife might 
be carried on by committees in the Home Economics Club. By putting 
the community into touch with the best thought of the times by means of 
stimulating speakers as well as worthy books, would do much toward 
bringing to all "the fairer outlook and the wider hope." 

The question of keeping in touch with legislation of interest to the home 
and the home economics m^ovement, was the subject of Mr. Benjamin R. 
Andrews' address. He spoke from the standpoint of the secondary 
school organization, as well as the adult club. He outlined the possibility 
of studying the local regulations which have to do with the household, 
building regulations, garbage disposal, etc. He also urged the advisability 
of keeping in touch with nev.- legislative projects, information about which 
may be obtained from members of the State Legislature and of Congress. 
From the standpoint of the adult club, Mr. Andrews suggested that a 
definite stand should be taken for or against the proposed bills, and that 
the local members of the Legislature should be informed of the attitude of 
the Club. 

Mrs. Lulie Wiles Robbins told of the problems connected with the 
neighborhood work at Speyer School. She suggested the possibility of 
experimental work with afternoon and evening classes at Speyer School. 
She emphasized the fact that regularity and persistent endeavor were 
essentials in maintaining such work. 

The value of a Home Economics Club to the members and to the com- 
mvmity was discussed by Cora M. Winchell. Enthusiasm and active 
work were defined as essentials for success, upon which, to a great extent, 
depends the actual value to be derived by the members. The inspiration 
to be gained from contact with others who are working on similar problems 



300 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

and from "Round Table" discussions, were mentioned as a source of bene- 
fit ; and the possibility of a room devoted to reference books and illustra- 
tive material was suggested. Technical, educational and general lectures 
by representative men and women; social meetings with brief addresses 
and open discussions, and exhibits, some technical and some of interest 
to the general public, were mentioned as sources of value to both the mem- 
bers of the club and to the community. As a means of broadening the 
interests of the home, co-operation with the Municipal League, Con- 
sumers League, social settlements, the health department and other 
similar organizations, was recommended. Social interests were urged as 
an essential addition to the manysidedness of the successful Home 
Economist. 

On March 17, 1909, the Departments of Domestic Art, Hospital 
Economics and Domestic Science were entertained by the Home Econo- 
mics Club. Symbolic favors signified the department to which each guest 
belonged. Dean Russell addressed the Club and outlined very clearly the 
policy of the College for the coming year. Economy would be emphasized, 
he said, in every department in both equipment and supplies. This was 
urged because of the fact that the ideals established by elaborate equip- 
ment and unlimited supplies, cannot be realized by the students in their 
work after they leave the school. A study of family expenditures as 
related to income was defined as one of the most vital problems to be met 
and solved. Dean Russell said that he had heard of objections to the idea 
that the American public should be taught how to save. He stated that 
he believed that living expenses could be very materially reduced through 
a careful and systematic education in how to spend rather than how to 
save, and toward such an education, with all it involves of technical infor- 
mation and sound judgment, would Teachers College lend its efforts during 
the coming year. 

The survey course on home economics described in the 
niversi y ^^^^ Lake Placid report is being given this year very 

much as outlined, and to twice as many students as 
last year. 

A graduate student working on salt-rising bread has proved that the 
action is due to living organisms and not due to an unorganized enzym as 
has been suggested. Whether it is a yeast or a bacterium has not yet 
been determined. 

Miss Louise Stanley, Instructor in Home Economics, and Mrs. C. W. 
Greene, a graduate student, are doing some interesting work on the cook- 
ing of meat in connection with the large investigation carried on by the 
Department of Agriculture on beef production. The full history, the 
chemical composition, and the histological structure of the meat used in 
the investigation are known, so that they have a better basis for their work 
than any previous investigators of this question. 

Thinking the recreation side of the home to be of great importance, we 
expect to include in our four-years curriculum in Home Economics a 
course on the Theory of Play and one on the Practice of Play under Dr. C. 
W. Hetherington, Head of the Department of Physical Education. 



1909] News From Institutions 301 

The fourth annual session of the School for House- 

niversi y keepers was by far the most successful in the history 

°°'^' of the school both in regard to numbers and interest. 

The registration was loi. Thirty-one counties were represented. The 
Experimental House was a source of much interest not only to the mem- 
bers of the school, but also to the citizens of the Twin Cities. During the 
month in which it was open there were as many as 8 1 visitors in one day. 
The lectures on "Home Care of the Sick" by Dr. Jennie M. Hughes were 
much appreciated. The most general interest, however, was manifested in 
the study of foods. This work was under the direction of Miss Helena 
M. Pincomb, assisted by Miss Nelle Miller, '05. 

For the past month Miss Helen Scott Hay, Superintendent of the Illinois 
Training School for Nurses, Chicago, has been giving lectures to the 
general public and instruction to the class in dietetics. A feature of this 
instruction which has been much appreciated has been the use of one of 
the bedrooms of the Experimental House fitted as a room should and can 
be for an invalid in the ordinary home. The class has had the advantage 
of caring for a patient in the bed and instruction in changing of bed 
clothes, lifting the patient and giving baths. Much interest has been 
manifested in these lectures on the part of both the public and students. 
Miss Hay has shown rare discrimination in the points selected and the 
lectures apparently meet a universal need. The following is a general 
outline of the lectures and lessons: Introductory, disease, its cause and 
prevention, conditions in the home and environment, qualifications of 
caretaker, sick room and equipment, beds and bed-making, care of 
patient in bed, baths, nursing in fevers, care of the convalescent and aged, 
medicine, applications, appliances, enemata, observation of symptoms, 
records, first lessons in surgery and care in contagious diseases, emergencies 
and tuberculosis. 

The annual meeting of the State Farmers Institute was held at Rock- 
ford, Illinois. The Department of Household Science of the Institute 
held separate sessions for three days at which matters of general interest 
were discussed. The Household Science department of the University of 
Illinois was represented by Miss Bevier by two addresses, one on Lessons 
in Bread Judging, and another on Art in the Home. 

The Department has been gratified to receive from a former graduate 
Miss Agnes Hunt, '08, now of the College of Hawaii in Honolulu, a collec- 
tion of different varieties of tapa, baskets and fans, showing the different 
processes of manufacture as well as different materials used in the Islands. 

The Department of Domestic Science of New York 
. . University was organized in the summer of 1908 with 

ersi y. very bright prospects for the future. 

An equipment for twelve students had been provided, but as the en- 
rollment on the first day was much larger, it was necessary immediately to 
supplement it. This caused some delay, but the time was more than 
made up later, and it proved such a successful summer under the able 
instruction of Miss Katherine Christian, that many who took the work, 



30 2 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

have expressed the intention of entering the advanced course, to be 
offered this year. Everything will be in readiness for the opening of the 
1Q09 session of the summer school on July ist. Miss Christian will be 
assisted in giving the work by Miss Elizabeth Crisman, Teachers' College. 
The laboratories where the work is conducted are in the Havem.eyer 
Chemical Building, which from its high elevation overlooks the Harlem 
and the Hudson Rivers and commands a view of the Palisades and the 
Catskills in the distance. So with its elevation, low temperature and 
favorable breezes. University Heights is an ideal place for summer work. 

A course of lectures on the general subject of nutrition 
The Woman s 

has been given by the college in conjunction with a 

^° committee of the Alumnae Association, as follows : 

Baltimore. ^^^^ 8, Food Principles, April 9, Digestion, Dr. Wm. 

J. Gies, Professor of Physiological Chemistry, College of Physicians and 

Surgeons, New York City; April 13, The Functions and Selection of Food, 

Dr. Henry C. Sherman, Professor of the Chemistry of Nutrition, of the 

School of Chemistry and Teachers' College, New York City; April 15, 

Assimination of Food, April 16, Utilization of Food, Dr. Wm. H. Howell, 

Johns Hopkins University; April 20, The Respiration Calorimeter, Dr. 

H. P. Armsby, of the Pennsylvania State College and Institute of Animal 

Nutrition; April 22, Possibilities of Danger from Inadequate Preparation 

of Food, Dr. C. W. Stiles, Chief of Division of Zoology, United States 

Public Health and Marine Hospital Service. 

j^,.,,. , On Arbor Day President J. M. Thomas and the Faculty 

^ of the college. Governor Prouty, the students and 

° ' townspeople of Middlebury, Vt., assembled, and the 

college took possession of a tract of land presented by Hon. Joseph Battell 
for a campus for the woman's college. The property consists of about 
thirty acres and adjoins the men's campus. A fund has been com- 
pleted for the erection of a woman's building and other improvements. 
The summer courses at the college this year are to include Home Economics, 
and special stress will be laid on the educational, as well as the vocational, 
value of the subject. Home Economics will be an important feature in 
the work of the woman's college. 

The local Alumnae Club is endeavoring to raise 
University of $1,000 to be used in providing equipment for a course 

Vermont. in Household Economics contemplated by the Uni- 

versity. As a meansto this end, a series of four lectures 
on home economics is in progress. 



n 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

Women's '^^^ Ontario Department of Agriculture has issued a 

Institutes in handbook and also a report of the women's institutes 

Ontario °^ ^^^ Province of Ontario for 1908. The superin- 

tendent of institutes, Mr. George A. Putnam, has 
organized the woman's work on a very interesting basis. There have been 
established in the province women's institutes which have regular times 
for meeting with a program bearing upon home subjects. The total mem- 
bership in these institutesis 12, 000 and in the year ending June, 1908, there 
have been held 3868 meetings with an aggregate attendance of 93,780. 
The hand-book shows the object of the organization, the constitution 
usually adopted in each institute, and a general report of the work done, 
besides suggested topics for study. Once a year a round-up meeting is 
held at the College of Agriculture, Guelph, with a program extending 
over three or four days in which definite teaching is done in Domestic 
Science. These addresses are printed in the report of the women's insti- 
tutes and serve as a partial basis of work for the institutes held during the 
year. The report thus makes a valuable contribution to the literature on 
Domestic Science. 

^, , The Home Economics Committee of the General 

plotne for 

. „, . Federation of Women's Clubs has instituted a campaign 

Women's Clubs, r., .• ^ , ■ ■ ^ ^ ■ 

for the extension of home economics interests in wo- 
men's organizations in this country. A plan of campaign has been drawn 
up and submitted to the State Committees on Home Economics. It 
outlines the aims set for the Home Economics work of women's clubs as 
follows : 

"ist. To have Domestic science taught in your Public Schools. 

"2d. To have Home Economic books put in your City Libraries. 

"3d. To try to have your Clubs have at least one program each 
year on this subject. 

"4th. To have one session of your State Convention devoted to this 
subject. 

"5th, If a session is not possible, you can at least arrange Round 
Table Talks when you take up various interesting phases of the work, in 
order to show the Clubs what a thoroughly comprehensive and interest- 
ing subject you represent, and how much valuable information can be 
given out at such a discussiori. 

"6th. To arrange with your State Agricultural Colleges and Uni- 
versities to secure from them, people prepared in this line of work to 
talk before your Conventions and Clubs and if possible to send out from 
them, instructors who can give short courses in places where you may 
arrange. 

"7th. To send in a record of your State speakers, work done; also 
the members of your State Committee that a record may be kept 
of whatever is done and passed on to others, who need this help." 

303 



304 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

In connection with Home Economics work in Indiana Mrs. O. N. Guldlin 
Chairman of the Home Economics Department of the General Federation 
of Women's Clubs writes: 

"In carrying on our work the Women's Clubs are greatly indeVjted to the 
American Home Economics Association. We need your trained experts 
and also the splendid material that you have taken years to accumulate. 
As a rule it is not hard to obtain workers, if we can show that we are doing 
things of real value for the home and society. 

"The different State reports bring valuable records which I hope to send 
you. The indication of these reports is the broadening influences of the 
chib movement; we must realize that our clubs are not for a few favored 
members, but that we are to be the mouth piece and carry the results of 
great movements and transforming influences into our social and do- 
mestic life. Often we can be the means of focusing the attention of other 
organizations, churches, institutions, etc., upon one great object, so that 
we can make possible, valuable opportunities for our common growth. 

"It is this cooperation of all for one common purpose, that can complete 
our municipal and state life. 

"In Indiana, we have done a few things that show the result of this 
mutual cooperation. Professor Barnard of the State Food and Drug 
Commission says that although the laws of Indiana are now very stringent 
in their line, the board hopes to accomplish its work almost entirely by the 
educational processes. With lantern slides a speaker from the Commission 
shows the condition of the groceries, bakeries, restaurants, drug stores and 
dairies before and after they are cleaned. Through the agency of the 
women, especially those of the Federated Clubs they have been able to 
make Terre Haute a model city in this respect. The women arranged for a 
meeting in which the subject was presented. A committee of them, went 
with a member of the Commission and had white labels printed that were 
posted in each shop window after the transformation had taken place. 
Professor Barnard hopes to introduce the 'Terre Haute plan' all over the 
State. 

"The members of the Richmond Domestic Science Club helped to 
furnish a kitchen in the Finley School. They also paid for the teacher's 
services. The letters from the children to the club express the apprecia- 
tion of the parents and children for this work, and the plan has worked so 
successfully that the School Board is expecting to put a Home Economics 
Department into the new High School that they have just started. 

"This club also recently had a very successful course of lectures upon 
this subject by Mrs. Burton Smith of Atlanta, Ga. 

"At Ft. Wayne, the Home Economics department of the Woman's 
League, thanks to the kindness of our School Board, is able to conduct an 
evening class each year in the High School Domestic Science Department. 

"Purdue University has recently added to its curriculum a home 
economics department, and Professor Henrietta Cahnn of Purdue is a 
great help in the work in Indiana. She had in addition to the regular 
college work, a short course for housekeepers. She also gives talks before 
our Clubs and is a member of our State Federation Committee. Miss 



i 



1909] News from the Field 305 

Josephine Berry, one of her associates at Purdue goes over the State to 
talk before farmers' institutes, and Mrs. Virginia Meredith is always ready 
to help on the work with her vigorous talks and we feel we can thank her 
for much of the interest in this subject that exists in Indiana." 

Under the heading, Teach Domestic Art, Centers for 
'iiiovL?,e'^nierY, the Milwaukee Free Press of January 23, 
^" 1909, reports an address by Principal Thomas W. Boyce 

of the First District School, in which he said : 

"Housewifery centers are a special branch of education in the English 
schools that impressed me as much as anything I saw in Europe. This 
system is seen at its best in Liverpool, where a three-stoiy house has been 
rented by the school board and is occupied by five teachers, who sleep there 
making the building a real home. 

"To these teachers eighty girls come every day for tuition in housewifery 
arts. They are divided into squads of sixteen. One squad is assigned to 
cook meals for one week for teachers and scholars. Another is assigned to 
the laundry work, and this is a science in itself. It does not consist in 
merely running the clothes through the tubs and dr>ang them. Another 
squad cares for the house, sweeping, cleaning and dusting. And dusting 
and sweeping, if it is well done, becomes an art. Another set makes 
clothing for the others. Besides the actual work going on with trained in- 
spectors over the students, each girl is obliged to attend a series of lectures 
on the care of children. 

"At the end of the week each squad is given different work to do. These 
girls when they finish the course are qualified scientifically to care for a 
house, and their minds have been trained in the process of learning this, 
for educators of today feel that as much mental training is derived from 
learning properly to hem a napkin or dust a parlor as in learning a page 
of Latin." 

. The following list of institutions offering courses in 
. -R • • home economics has been furnished, by request, to the 

in Great Bntain. j^^.j^^. ^^ of Home Economics by Miss Alice RavenhiU 
of London, England: 

Bath — School of Cooker}' and Domestic Science. 

Birmingham — Training School for Teachers of Cookery and Laundry- 
Work. 

Bristol — Municipal Training School of Domestic Science. 

Cardiff, South Wales and Monmouth Training School of Cooken.^ and the 
Domestic Arts. 

Gloucester — Gloucestershire School of Domestic Science. 

Leeds — Yorkshire Training School of Cookery. 

Leicester — Municipal Training College for Domestic Subjects. 

Liverpool Training School of Cooken,'. 

London, Battersea — The Poh-technic, Battersea Park Road, S. W. 

London, Holloway — The Northern Polytechnic, Holloway Road, X. 

London, Lambeth — The National Society's Training School of Cookery. 



3o6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

London, Westminster — The National Training School of Cookery, 72-8, 
Buckingham Palace Road, S. W. 

Manchester — School of Domestic Science 

Newcastle-on-Tyne — Northern Counties Training School of Cookery. 

Norwich — Norfolk and Norwich School of Cookery. 

Preston — Harris Institute. 

Sheffield — School of Cookery and Domestic Science. 

Trowbridge — Wiltshire School of Cookery. 

Cheltenham — Ladies College, (Principal Miss Faithful!). 

London — King's College, Women's Department, 13 Kensington Square, 
W. (Principal, Miss Oakeley). 

London, Acton— Haberdasher's Aske's Girls' School, S. W. (Principal 
MissGilliland). 

London, Clapman High School, The Lodge, 63 South Side, S. W. 
(Principal Mrs. Woodhouse). 

London, Blackheath — ^Blackheath High School for Girls Wemyys Road, 
S. W. (Principal Miss Gadesden) 

Leeds — Girls' High School, Headingley Hill, (Principal Miss Lowe). 

Ireland, Dublin — National Training School of Cookery, Kildare Street. 

Scotland, Edinburgh — School of Cookery and Domestic Economy, Ltd., 
K, AthoU Crescent. 

Ireland, Dublin — Alexandra College, (Principal Miss White). 

On call of Dr. Joseph S. NefT, director of the Philadelphia 

.,,. , ^ Department of Public Health and Charieties, a con- 

Alhance for . i. u 4. .^u . cc a -i 

^ , lerence was held at the mayors ortice April 23, rooo, 

Lessenmg Infant ^ . , . r,,-, •, , , • r j 

° to organize a movement m Philadelphia 01 an educa- 

^' tional character with a view to reducing the large infant 

mortality in that city. The conference was opened by Mayor Reybum 
who was elected Honorary Chairman. After the consideration of the pur- 
pose for which the meeting was called, the conference organized into an 
association of which the title is The Philadelphia Alliance for the Care of 
Babies. It is under the auspices of the Department of Public Health and 
Charieties, Board of Education, Congress of Mothers, Home and School 
League, and allied associations. Dr. NeflE was elected chairman of the 
organization and Howard Cooper Johnson, treasurer. 

A committee of six consisting of the three officers and three members 
was appointed with power to act to devise methods for carrying on the 
work of the organization. After discussion of some business matters the 
meeting was addressed by Mayor Reybum; Dr. Neff; Mrs. Frederic 
SchofT, President of the National Congress of Mothers; R. E. Miles, 
President of the Children's Conference in New York; Dr. C. F. Lang- 
worthy, in charge of Nutrition Investigations, Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C; B. H. Rawl, Chief of Dairy Division, 
Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C; Dr. Theodore Dreiser, 
Editor of the D^/m^n/or, New York; and Miss Edith Howe, of New York. 

In general the speakers discussed the need for work which will lessen 
infant mortality in Philadelphia; the success of such movements in other 



I 



1909] News fro^n the Field 307 

cities; plans for securing a pure milk supply; house and market sanitation 
with reference to the health of the mothers and other members of the 
family and related topics. The conference was attended by about 75 men 
and women prominent in Philadelphia scientific, philanthropic, and other 
activities for the public good. 

Immediately after the meeting the conference began its work in ac- 
cordance with plans outlined at the time of organization. Four fixed sub- 
committees have been appointed on the procurement of halls; ward 
organization, and audiences; on the procurement of lecturers; and on 
the care of babies. The title of the last named committee does not clearly 
indicate its work, but it will be the duty of members to care for young 
babies while their mothers are attending various lectures and conventions 
given by the Alliance. The use of public school buildings for le-tures was 
tendered the Alliance by Dr. Martin G. Brumbaugh, Superintendent of 
Schools in behalf of the Board of Education and this will enable the 
Alliance to reach a certain number of women. The sub-committee 
having this matter in charge is now endeavoring to secure the use of halls 
belonging to diflferent business men's associations in various sections of 
Philadelphia where an entirely different group of women can be reached. 
The sub-committee appointed to secure lecturers will ask for volunteers 
from Philadelphia physicians and nurses and will also have the services of 
the physicians in the employ of the city doing school inspection on con- 
tagious diseases and charity work, — one hundred in all. The committee 
on ward organization and audiences of which Mrs. Frederic SchofT is 
chairman has appointed on her committee a woman from almost every 
ward in the city to act as chairman of sub-committees of women in their 
own ward whose duty it will be to aid in procuring audiences and to visit 
young mothers in their districts. To aid in locating young mothers Dr. 
Neff has had from thirty to forty thousand cards prepared in the Phila- 
delphia Division of Vital Statistics giving the names and addresses of all 
those who have given birth to babies within the last year and a half. 

As an important part of the work of the Alliance, Dr. Neff has already 
arranged for the young babies in the municipal institutions to have fresh 
air during the summer. A floating hospital in the river will be used and a 
location in Fairmont Park has been selected to which the babies will be 
taken daily during the hot term. Dr. Neff proposes to extend this move- 
ment to cover the entire city and will procure the use of parks and river 
boats where babies can be taken care of. 

A circular has been prepared giving the lectures and general outline of 
the ground to be covered by the work of the Alliance. This is in addition 
to the original circular on babies issued by the Philadelphia Department of 
Health which is used for general distribution in the slum districts. 

Western Drawing '^"^^^ ^°^^ ™^^ ^^ ^^- ^ouis, May 4-7. Departmental 
and Normal round-tables were held in art instruction, manual 

Traininp- training, and in household arts. Miss Clara Isabel 

Association Mitchell of the University of Chicago, and Miss Helen 

Day, of the Bradley Polytechnic Institute acted as 
chairmen of the section of household arts, and papers were given as follows : 



3o8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The Relation of Domestic Art to Other Subjects in the Curriculum, Miss 
Grace Fuller, Supervisor Domestic Science and Art, State Normal School, 
Ypsilanti, Mich.; Preparation Necessary to the Training of a Teacher in 
Domestic Art, Miss Charlotte M. Gibbs, Instructor in Textiles and Cloth- 
ing, University of Illinois; Co-operation of Grade Teachers with Teachers 
of Domestic Art, Fine Arts and Manual Training, Miss Maude R. Flickner, 
Central High School; and Domestic Science in the High School, Dr. Edna 
D. Day, Home Economics, University of Missouri, Miss Jessie Long, 
Supervisor Domestic Science, Saginaw, Mich., Miss Laura M. Kinsey, 
McKinley High School, St. Louis, and Miss Louise Stanley, University of 
Missouri. 

At a general session addresses were given on The Claim for Domestic 
Courses in General Education, Miss Ellen C. Sabin, President Milwaukee- 
Downer College, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; The Socio-Economic Value of 
Domestic Art in the Education of Future Homemakers, Dr. Edna D. Day; 
and Our Opportunity in Shaping Public Taste, W. M. Davidson, Superin- 
tendent of Instruction, Omaha, Nebraska. 

The Missouri Association of Applied Arts and Sciences held meetings 
May 3-6. The annual address was delivered by President A. Ross Hill 
of the University of Missouri who took for his subject The Place of the 
Applied Arts and Sciences in Secondary Education. 

. The Department of Superintendence of the National 

Education Association met in Chicago, 111., February 
tion Association. t>, • 1 j j >.r, 

23—25, 1909. Ihe program included among other 

topics, a series of papers on industrial education. A feature of the Conven- 
vention was the joint session with American School Hygiene Association, 
at which papers were presented on (i) The Necessity for Departments of 
Hygiene Within Boards of Education, by William H. Maxwell, Superin- 
tendent of Schools, New York City. (2) Hygiene of the Public Play- 
ground, by George E. Johnson, Superintendent of Playground Associa- 
tion, Pittsburg, Pa. (3) The Evil Influences of School Conditions upon the 
Health of School Children, by Woods Hutchinson, M.D. and (4) A Plea 
for the Systematic Annual and Universal Examination of School Children's 
Eyes, Noses and Throats, by Frank Allport, Professor of Clinical Opthal- 
mology and Otology, Northwestern Medical School. The School Hygiene 
Association also held separate sessions during the Convention. 

A tendency which has shown itself to some degree for 
c -L. ] ^^^ ^^s^ ^^^ years is now developing with marked 

rapidity. This is the extension of work in the secondary 
schools with a decided vocational aim. The term vocational is used in 
this connection as including not only training for home-making, but also 
for some work which will make the high school graduate at least partially 
self-supporting. (Some five years ago a superintendent of schools in a 
New England city expressed a desire to have high school work in both 
domestic science and domestic art take such shape that the girl would 
have, if not a trade, at least the beginning of a trade, or something which 



1 9^9] News from the Field 309 

would help her to earn her own living.) This is one development of a 
general movement in the field of education, which shows itself most 
markedly in the trade school. So far, the trade schools in this country- 
have given work mainly along domestic art lines. The instruction the 
girls have had in the domestic science field has been intended simply to 
give them some knowledge of housekeeping. But now in domestic science 
as well as in domestic art this other vocational tendency is apparent. The 
most highly developed work not strictly along trade lines is in the Practical 
Arts High School, Dorchester, Mass., where Miss Annie L. Bennett, 
director of the domestic science and art, has organized work in domestic 
science that gives the pupils training for catering. 

Mrs. Blanche E. Hyde, director of household arts in the new Technical 
High School, Newton, Mass., also intends to develop vocational work in 
both domestic science and art as soon as is practicable. 

Miss Ellen L. Rushmore, of the Manual Training High School, Brooklyn, 
N. Y., has kindly furnished the following information, which she wishes to 
have considered as tentative, rather than final: 

"The course in the Manual Arts for girls is as follows (i period consisting 
of 45 minutes). 

Second year of High School Course, 

2 lessons of 2 periods each in plain sewing. 

Third Year of High School Course, 

2 lessons of 2 periods each in domestic science, 

3 periods millinery. 

Fourth Year of High School Course, 

2 lessons of 2 periods each in dressmaking, 

3 periods of advanced domestic science. 

"The object of the course in domestic science is to prepare students to 
be competent homemakers. With this end in view, the course is planned 
to cover work in preparation and serving of meals, the care of a bedroom, 
simple laundry work and general cleaning, with a little home-nursing. 

"The course in the fourth year has been added only recently, and the 
new work has not been competently organized yet. Great interest is 
shown, however, in developing those phases of the subject which have a 
vocational tendency. But it is too soon to make any definite statement 
regarding the work. At the end of another year we expect to see some of 
our hopes realized, and shall be in a position to say something more posi- 
tive." 

Mr. Charles R. Allen in planning courses for the new High School at 
New Bedford, Mass., intends to have work that is decidedly vocational, 
using the word in both senses. 

Will all superintendents or teachers who have already completed plans 
for work of this nature kindly send reports to Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass. ? This aspect of the 
work will probably be discussed at the Denver meeting of the American 
Association of Home Economics. 



- lo The Journal of Home Economics [June 

A letter has come from California asking how courses 
Elementary ^^ cookery may be adapted to meet the needs of the 

Schools. various children of foreign birth or parentage in the 

public schools. Reports on this point giving practical experiences will be 
most helpful. In the Xew York City schools, both public and private, 
ereat attention has been paid on the part of the teacher to the study of 
Hebrew rules for kosher cookery. In the public school in a neighborhood 
where the children are all Hebrews, a kitchen has been furnished with 
equipment adapted to kosher cookery. 

A report on this subject will be published in the fall if teachers will 
kindly send in the results of their experience. Letters should be addressed 
to Miss Helen Kinne, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York. 

Twenty-five Connecticut teachers have agreed to hold 
Connecticut ^ meeting at New Haven with the State Teachers 

Teacners Association to organize a State society of teachers of 

01 Home Home Economics. A committee is at work on plans 

Economics. ^^^ furthering this object. 

In a recent communication to Education, Miss Marjory 
Domestic Stephenson, Staff Teacher in Science in the Gloucester- 

tconomy ^ shire School of Domestic Science, discusses the status of 

Teachers' Salaries j^^^^ Economics teachers in England. She points out 
in England. ^^^^ ..^^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^ teach the art of Home Making 

to the children in our elementary schools is one of the highest aims that a 
woman can place before herself, and that on the successful performance 
of this great work depends the solution of many of our gravest economic 
problems; from this it follows that it is of the first importance that well- 
educated, capable, and energetic women should be induced to enter this 
branch of the teaching profession." 

Yet, although the minimum time of training for diplomas in cookery, 
laundry and housewifery for work in elementary schools is two years, at a 
cost of about $900, the initial salary offered in the elementary' schools is 
seldom over $400, and this rises by annual increases of $25 to only about 
S600. In many cases the start is below this and there is no assurance of an 
annual rise. 

Miss Stephenson declares that, "Not until a teacher's salary exceeds 
S500 has she any margin for holidays or amusements; until then these can 
only be obtained through the charity of relatives and friends. And, in 
my opinion, no teacher recei\'ing less than $600 can reasonably be expected 
to make any provision for her old age." 

As a result, it is a common complaint that as soon as a domestic economy 
teacher has gained experience in elementary school teaching, she imme- 
diately seeks other and more remunerative work in secondary schools or 
elsewhere. Miss Stephenson, therefore, concludes that "if the status of 
the domestic economy teachers is to be raised to its proper level, salaries 
must go up." 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

The Standard of Living Among Workingmen's Families in New York 
City.. Robert Coit Chapin, Ph.D. Xew York Charities Publication 
Committee, 1909, pp. 372. Cloth $2.00. 

This comprehensive study was undertaken by a committee appointed 
at the Seventh New York State Conference of Charities and Corrections, 
held at Rochester, in November, 1906. The obiect was to ascertain the 
essentials and cost of a normal standard of living in the cities and towns of 
the state. The work was completed under a grant from the Russell Sage 
Foundation, the author, who is Horace White professor of economics and 
finances in Beloit College, serving as secretary of the committee. Very 
complete schedules of inquiry as to details of income and expenditure were 
distributed in Greater New York and 642 were returned, of which 391 were 
accepted as normal and accurate. Of these 318 represented incomes be- 
tween S600 and $1,000. The leading nationalities were Americans, Rus- 
sians and Italians, and about half were engaged in manufactures and 
mechanical trades. 

From the large amount of verv' suggestive data set forth in detail, it is 
concluded that an income under $800 is not enough to permit the main- 
tenance of a normal standard, while $900 or over probably does permit it, 
at least so far as the physical man is concerned. 

The failure to maintain a normal standard may be due to causes quite 
outside of the capacity of the individual bread-winner or of the economic 
forces that determine the rate of wages, two of these outside considerations 
being the presence of too large families and the inability to make a wise 
use of the money earned. Regarding the latter point, the author points 
out that to bring expenditures down to the exact requirements of an ideal 
economy, "is not within the ability of the ordinary'- wage-earner's wife. 
She cannot spend hours in bargain-hunting, in experimenting with new 
food combinations, in making and mending garments. She has not, and 
cannot be expected to have, the training and ability to do all these things, 
even if she had the time. She has to take the methods of housekeeping 
that are traditional in her en\'ironment and apply them as skillfully and 
intelligently as her native and acquired powers of mind and body permit. 
What the exceptional woman might do cannot be made the measure of 
what the average woman may be expected to do, and if the morals and 
efficiency of the population are to be kept up, provision must be made for 
what the woman of average capacity must have to keep her family up to 
the prevailing standard. Only when education in a better economy is 
widely diffused, will it be possible to maintain the existing standards of 
physique and character on a lower absolute income." 

In general, however, "the results of our investigation indicate that, while 
the personal factor does operate in the case of every family, both as re- 
gards the habits of the father and the managing ability of the mother, the 
limits within which it may affect the actual sum. total of material comforts 

3" 



The Journal of Home Economics U^^^ 

It .ake up the Uv.ng of ^^^yj:^^^^^^':^^^ 

social forces ^-^l^^J'^ZXerl,: oTL^^ received by the father and 
family receives-that is, m ^^e rate o g ^ ^^^^^^ _^ ^^^ ^^.^^^ 

others who are at work on the o her side tj ^^^ J^^ ^^^^^ ^^ 
ZTt::"^^^^^!^^^^^^ ^s set primanly. therefore, by 

the wages paid and the prices charged^ appendixes reports 

In addition to the mam study there ^^^^'^^^ ^ J^^^,^ ^,e further 

of the committee ^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^tl^^^^^^^^ work, and brief re- 

discussed, a copy of the ^^^}>^'f^^^^ ^^^ ^i„e other cities and towns 
ports of similar studies made -^f^^/^^^^^^^^, ,, ,^, Xew York and 
outside of Greater New York Ihe chiei m ^^^ ^^^ 

Buffalo returns was as regards '^^ ^^^l^^^^^"^^^^^^^^ the difficulty 

author of the Buffalo report John R. f"™:^'^;,^^ orisons. An article 

F. P. UnderhiU. With ««"«""== '"''".^r" (Jj'by well nourished and 
••comparison between the amounts spent for food^y ^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^ 

pootly nounshed tam.hes -*-7;,'^^i;",Slt derived is insufficent. 

rdThrmo^':h:r" "ef day .s expended the lann.y Is well 

nourished." ■ ■ • ,. ., , „^oi r.r^r,r-1ii=;inn mav be drawn that for 

AS to the ^^«^lf-^^:J:,^SZ^:Z;^l^on,.. m the city 

:; rror.::pTmtn^ .^toV wth a- 3^^^^^^^ 

;e;nd^n^^ota"r:^T^:SetX^^^^ a.hty to^.e at a lo. 

•^^xhe'itudy also "^^^--:::^::!^^:::!^:^,:::^:tx=i 

';ar.S:;"aphr:S rX> ^-i- ot wot.m.men.s hud.ets and 
the standards of living.— H. L. Kmght. 

worth of a number of common food matenals is sno y 

and the selected foods are briefly discussed. 

vl^=%-T^m«°?.'Sep^-e-"" 

-:^t:-^^:^'c::^Tz a=od-' .e 



igoQ] Books and Literature 313 

machinery of the body; the reserve material of the body; the composition 
of the entire body; the animal body as a machine; the demand for repair 
material; feed as a source of repair material; measurement of energy-; 
feed requirements; the computation of rations; and general considerations. 
As an interesting discussion of nutrition of the animal body, from the 
theoretical as well as from the practical standpoint the bulletin can be 
recommended to students of nutrition problems. 

The Egg Trade of the United States, M. M. Hastings, U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industn.", Circular 140, pp. 34. 

In this discussion of eggs from the standard of the dealer as well as the 
consumer such questions are considered as quality in eggs; grade of eggs; 
detrimental changes in eggs and consequent losses; the consumers' 
position; methods of marketing eggs; and storage and preservation of 
eggs. 

The Fireless Cooker, How to Make it, How to Use it and What to Cook. 
Caroline B. Lovewell, Frances D. Whittemore and Hannah W. Lyon; 
Home Publishing Company, Topeka, Kans., 1908, pp. 211, fig. 9. 

Fireless cookers of home construction are described, and cooking with 
such devices is discussed on the basis of experience. The writer's ex- 
periments were perhaps rather more ambitious than is usual, and a number 
of plans for this method of cookery are described which it is stated have 
proved of much service in diminishing household labor. The way in which 
an old refrigerator was converted into a fireless cooker with an oven 
heated by hot soapstone or fire bricks, is described in one chapter. Other 
chapters discuss the insulated oven, the insulated cold box, and an 
insulated pail for keeping food hot or cold as is desired. In addition the 
volume contains a large number of receipts especially arranged for use 
with fireless cookers. 

Bacteriology of the Household. 

This is a pamphlet in the Cornell Reading Course for Farmers' Wives, 
being the first of a new series devoted to the subject of sanitation. 
It is well written, and gives a very satisfactory account of the bacteria, 
molds, and yeasts, which play a part in many of the practical operations in 
homes. There is also an important section on disease germs. The pam- 
phlet is the kind of literature which deserves great popularity, and every 
one interested in sanitary science should commend the publication of such 
valuable information in a series of bulletins which goes directly to the 
people who must put the information into practical use. — M. A. Bigelow. 

A Small House Plan. 

In Breeders' Gazette, Vol. 55, Xo. 14, page 846, a farmer's wife sub- 
mits the plan of a small house designed particularly to insure the saving of 
steps in housework. Critical comments of the plans are made by J. E. 
Wing of the editorial staff who is especially interested in such matters. 



314 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The Fight Against Consumption, St. Johns, Newfoundland. Robinson 
and Company. 

This is a pamphlet of ninety pages reporting a unique Teachers 
Institute which brought together all the public school teachers of New- 
foundland for a week's meeting in August, 1908, to be instructed as to 
the ways and means of co-operating in the campaign against tuberculosis. 
The Institute was conducted under the auspices of the Newfoundland 
Association for the Prevention of Consumption. Public opinion had been 
aroused in Newfoundland by the great increase of mortality from con- 
sumption which in five years has grown fully fifty per cent in every section 
of the Colony, with few exceptions. In two sections the mortality had 
actually doubled in this period. The ravages of the disease were especially 
terrible in the small fishing hamlets scattered up and down the coast. 
The only way to reach them seemed to be through the teachers to be found 
in such settlements. They were, accordingly, brought together for a 
week's instruction regarding preventive measures in tuberculosis hygiene. 
A program of meetings lasting from Monday evening to Friday after- 
noon was arranged, including papers and discussions, results of which are 
now brought together in this pamphlet. Recent reports from New- 
foundland indicate that the Institute is bearing fruit. The suggestion of 
an Institute for teachers on this subject, is one that might well be followed 
generally in city, county, and other organizations of teachers. 

The Hotel Monthly, published by John Willy, 325 Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, $ 1 .00 a year. 

This is a professional monthly in the sense that it is intended to circulate 
among hotel proprietors and stewards, and at the same time, to serve as a 
magazine of reference for travelers. Teachers of institutional cookery and 
institutional management will find in this journal articles of real value. 
For example, the February issue contains, on page 34, an article on 
Checking the Orders Against the Issues, which is the explanation of a 
system of store-room issues and baker's report sheets. Another very 
interesting article, on page 46, is a description of the Kitchen of the 
Baltimore, Kansas City, a kitchen which supplies a dining-room aggregat- 
ing a thousand chairs. The article includes a plan of kitchen with a 
descriptive key. Another article is on the Housekeepers Daily Report 
Sheet and the Dining Room Record Cards in a Pittsburgh hotel. Dis- 
cussions of the hotel and local option, rules for the bell-boy and other 
persons on the staff, and articles of professional interest, make up the 
reading matter of this number. The advertising pages are no less sug- 
gestive, with their entries of house furnishing establishments, and books 
which are useful in the management of hotels and clubs. 

Sewing Machine Times, New York, $1.00 per annum, bi-monthly. 

This is a trade Journal published for persons engaged in the manufac- 
ture and sale of sewing machines. Persons who are interested in the 
instruction of dressmaking and allied lines, will find in its advertisements 
and occasional notes, topics of direct bearing upon their instruction. 



1909] Books ayid Literature 315 

Recent copies have had historical articles on the development of the 
sewing machine and advertisements of specialties of technical interest. 

Bulletin of the Domestic Reform League, January, 1909. Published 
by the Domestic Service Bureau of the Woman's Educational and In- 
dustrial Union, Boston. Reorganized 1897 as the Domestic Reform 
League. 

This Bulletin gives some information regarding wages of women in 
domestic service. A table shows the weekly wages in various occupa- 
tions to be as follows: Average in domestic service, $5.08; textile 
operatives, $7.15; saleswomen, $6.21; and teachers, $13.29. Adding in 
the allowance for room and board, the total wage of the servant becomes 
$9.08, the textile operatives $7.15, saleswomen $6.21 and teachers $13.29 
weekly. The Domestic Reform League has published a series of 
Bulletins for free distribution, some of which are still available, and 
libraries of home economics should secure them. 

The Bulletin of the North Carolina Department of Agriculture, Raleigh, 
X. C, October igoS. 

This Bulletin includes an article on Domestic Science Railway Cars, 
(referred to in the April issue), and three lectures delivered at wo- 
men's institutes: "Why We Should Attend the Institute"; "The Pre- 
vention of Disease in the Home"; "A Talk on Fooc's." There are also 
addresses delivered at the Women's Meeting of State Farmers' Conven- 
tion, including the following: "The Country Woman's Spending Money" 
and "The Mother as a Source of Inspiration to the Child." Teachers of 
home economics will do well to inquire regarding publications of their 
State Department of Agriculture. 

Monthly Bulletin in New York State Department of Health, Albany, X. Y. 
The February number of this Bulletin contains an article on the "Investi- 
gation of Shellfish Beds and Shellfish" which discusses shellfish as related 
to typhoid, the pollution of waters and methods of investigation. About 
one-half of the Bulletin is devoted to vital statistics, but there are notes of 
value on tuberculosis, diphtheria, the disposal of sewage and other topics. 

The State Versus the Home, Should there be a Central Government 
Department for Children? by Mrs. M. K. Inglis. Fortnightly Review, 
October, 1909. 

This is an article emphasizing home life for children as contrasted with 
institutional life and urging the need of a Central Government Bureau 
which will be responsible for the protection of children. The first part of 
the article is devoted to "the problems" and includes a section which at- 
tempts, in brief form, to state the standards of Xormal Home Life, 
Abnormal Home Life, Unsatisfactory Home Life, and Evil Home Life. 
For example. Unsatisfactory Home Life is classified as affected by: 
The Sweated Home- Worker, Travelling Showman, Itinerant Musician, 
Bargee Tinker or Gipsy, Hawker, Casual Laborer, Unemployable, or 
Tramp and Vagrant. 



31 6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Cornell Reading Course for Farmers' Wives, New York State College of 
Agriculture, Ithaca, N. Y. 

For several years the New York State College of Agriculture has issued 
bulletins and conducted this course with Miss Martha Van Rensselaer as 
Supervisor. A new series on sanitation began with the issue of November 
1908. 

No. I. Saving Strength by Mrs. Emily M. Bishop and Miss Van Rens- 
selaer, gives many simple and sensible directions for relieving fatigue and 
adjusting household appliances to save human energy. The illustrations 
are even more forcible than the text. This contains sixteen pages. 

No. 2. Insect Pests of House and Garden by Professor M. V. Slinger- 
land, deals with those pests which eat clothing and furniture, get into 
food, annoy man, carry disease, and destroy house and garden plants. 
The cuts show the life history of each insect throughout all the stages of 
development. A bibliography of literature on household insects is given. 
This contains forty pages. 

No. 3. The Laundry by Miss Flora Rose, deals with the many phases 
of this subject very fully. 

A discussion paper accompanies each bulletin with several questions for 
the reader to answer and return to the College of Agriculture. — Anna 
Barrows. 

House Painting, A. H. Sabin, M.S. John Wiley and Sons, New York, 
1908. Pp. 121. Price, $1.00. 

This volume fills a long felt want; its clearness and simplicity will 
appeal to the reader, and being written by a master, its contents will 
carry conviction. We have long wished for a manual which would make 
clear the basal principle of the art of house painting and decoration in a 
simple and attractive style. Without entering into an exhaustive analysis 
of the book, it can be said that the subjects of painting in oil and water 
color, varnishing, paperhanging, glazing and the preliminary treatment of 
old and new surfaces, is thoroughly discussed. Dr. Sabin seems to sug- 
gest that his book is for the amateur only; we think that many master 
painters might also read it with profit, and to the householder, old and new, 
this little volume will be a great boon. — H. T. Vulte. 

Metropolitan Magazine, New York, is publishing a series of articles 
on The Prevention of Tuberculosis which began in the April number. 

The Application of Scientific Methods to Housekeeping, by Mabel 
Atkinson, Albany Review, September, 1908, pp. 647-657, reprinted in 
Littel's Living Age, October 24, 1908, pp. 227-233. 

Co-operative Housekeeping and similar questions are discussed. 

The Hartley House Cook Book and Household Economist, by Ella A, 
Pierce, Lentilhon' and Company, publishers, New York City, 1901. 
172 pages, price 60 cents net. 

Owing to the comprehensive yet simple method of treatment of the 
subject of household economics. The Hartley House Cook Book is alike 
valuable to the thrifty housewife and the teacher of domestic science. 



1909] Books and Literature 317 

The receipts are simple, yet in many cases unusual, ensuring helpfulness 
in securing variety to the diet. The household suggestions are invaluable. 
In short, quoting from the author, "It is recommended to those who 
wish to live well at a moderate cost." — Mary L. Caufield. 

Borderland Studies, Miscellaneous Addresses and Essays Pertaining to 
Medicine and the Medical Profession and Their Relations to General 
Science and Thought, Vol. II. George M. Gould, M.D., Philadelphia. 
P. Blakiston's Son & Company, 1908. 

The first of these essays in Volume II is entitled "The History of the 
House; The Struggle for Light and Air," and is a contribution in popular 
form to the literature of Home Economics. It makes plain the relation 
between housing and health which has held true in the history of disease 
and is now recognized to be one of the most important factors in the 
campaign of preventive medicine. The modem detached house which in 
most respects is in reasonable accord with the needs of health, is shown to 
be the result of a long evolution, the steps of which are made plain by 
nearly fifty illustrations. Now, for the city dweller, the process is set 
back by crowded conditions which have put fresh air and sunlight at a 
premium. 

"Physicians agree that tuberculosis and pneumonia, if not other 
diseases, are house diseases." "The history of civilization as related to 
the house may be summed up as consisting of four epochs : i . That of 
securing protection and warmth by means of the single-roomed, window- 
less hall; 2. That of the creation of the chimney; 3. That of the mak- 
ing of glass windows; 4. That of securing ventilation; and this is the 
stage in which we are now living and shall live for centuries to come." 

The bringing together in brief form of interesting material regarding 
the house, and pointing to the further development required is indeed a 
useful service. The illustrations and the suggestive lines of thought 
given by the brilliant author make the essay one of unique value. 

Among the other essays in the volume are: A System of Personal 
Biological Examinations, and The Seven Deadly Sins of Civilization. 
The latter are given as: Tobacco, Tea and Coffee, Alcohol, Sugar, 
Venereal Diseases, The Modern House (because of house-caused disease) 
and Eye Strain." While opinion may differ as to the makeup of the list, 
workers in home economics can not fail to be impressed by the fact that 
Dr. Gould's list falls almost entirely within the field of household con- 
cern and control. — B. R. A. 

Civics and Health. William H. Allen, Secretary of Bureau of Munic- 
ipal Research. Xew York: Ginn & Co. $1.50. 

This work forms an important contribution to the literature of the 
present era, which deals with various aspects of the health problem. The 
author treats health in its relation to the individual, the family, the school 
and the community in general. The approach is from the social point of 
view and much emphasis is given to the idea that "health is a civic duty." 
The headings of the five divisions express briefly the dominant ideas of this 
book. They are as follows: 



3i8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Health rights; reading the index to health rights; cooperation in 
meeting health obligations; official machinery for enforcing health rights; 
and alliance of hygiene, patriotism and religion. 

Dr. Allen treats the subject in an unconventional, vigorous and stimulat- 
ing fashion. The presentation is often dramatic and even spectacular. 
Illuminating cuts, charts, tables and outlines add to the graphic quality. 
The material is strictly modern and some of the statements and conclusions 
will be criticized as drawn from insufficient or doubtful premises. The 
treatment of some topics is necessarily fragmentary and the transition at 
times abrupt. It may be admitted that the author indulges in apparent 
exaggerations in some places and that some of his epigrams need qualifica- 
tion and explanation in the interest of conservative exposition. However, 
it is evident that this book is not intended to be conservative and the 
opinions seem to the reviewer almost without exception essentially sound 
and convincing. While the book will benefit all classes of readers, it may 
be read with particular profit by parents, physicians, nurses, teachers, 
ministers and social workers. 

It is impossible to give any accurate impression of this book without 
direct examination and the unbiased critic may bespeak for it a wide 
circulation and an efifectively useful career. It is a pity that such a book 
could not be advertised as skillfully as the patent medicines. — Thomas D. 
Wood, Columbia University. 

Equipment for the Teaching of Domestic Science, Helen Kinne. Teachers 
College Record, May, 1909. 

This pamphlet is intended primarily for normal students who are study- 
ing domestic science methods. It should, however, be useful to any 
superintendent or teacher who is intending to equip a domestic science 
room or department. It treats of equipment for cookery, table setting 
and service, cleaning, laundering and home nursing. It is illustrated by 
drawings and photographs. It also contains a description of the New 
School of Household Arts, Teachers College. It may be secured by ad- 
dressing the Teachers College Museum, price thirty cents. 



TH E 

Journal e/ Home Economics 

Vol. I. OCTOBER, 1909 No. 4 



REPORT OF THE DENVER MEETING OF AMERICAN 
HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

The Denver meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association was held July 7-8, 1909. It was in close connection 
with the sessions of the National Education Association, in rooms 
arranged for it by the general secretary of that Association who 
also made the formal announcement, thus giving a standing 
and stamp of approval. Headquarters were provided by Mrs. 
Richards at the Hotel Metropole where over forty teachers 
from ten States registered and met each other socially and were 
able to compare notes as to their work. 

The social features were not so prominent as they would have 
been had there not been enough and to spare in the N. E. A. 
program. On Wednesday, for insta-^ce, there were scheduled 
four receptions. Mrs. Richards was one of the chief speakers at 
the luncheon given by the Mothers' Congress on Tuesday and also 
at the luncheon given by the School Dames Club on Wednesday. 

The first session was opened in Unity Church at 10 o'clock 
with nearly one hundred in attendance, many ladies of Denver, 
including Mrs. Sarah Piatt Decker, being present. Many men 
prominent in educational affairs expressed regrets that their 
own section work prevented their attendance. 

No attempt had been made to present set papers, but rather 
to bring out different phases of the work by means of short 
statements. 

For sins of omission and commission in the following report, 
made under difficult circumstances, the president and acting 
secretary beg the tolerance of the members, and hope that any 
who may be misrepresented will send a correct account of their 
work. 

Wednesday Morxing, July 7. 

The Home Economics Conference was called to order at Unity 
Church by Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, President. An address of 

319 



320 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

welcome was given by Mrs. Stuart Douglas Walling of Denver, 
followed by words of greeting from Miss Henry, Supervisor of 
Domestic Science in the Denver Schools, who also announced an 
exhibit of manual training, domestic science and art in the East 
Denver High School building. 

Mrs. Richards in her opening address spoke as follows: 

"Educators have looked askance at Domestic Science work 
because it was not scientific, and housewives because it was not 
very domestic. Many lines have developed since the work 
opened, but the germ of growth was in it from, the first. All 
education is in a plastic condition, especially must this be true 
of so new a branch as ours. There has been no regular road to 
follow. Experiment stations for the work are being organized 
ever)rwhere. The work originally begun by private initiative, — a 
woman here, a man there who became interested — has now been 
taken up as a part of public education. The first organization was 
for the benefit of the poorer classes, the factory girls being notor- 
iously poor cooks, but the young ladies of Boston were also 
taught in classes. Then, it appeared in the graded schools, 
from kindergarten up. 

"Now comes the crucial point, the high school, the school that 
prepares for life, — we leave the college out for the present. The 
point of attack is the high school regular course, the object being 
to obtain points of credit in high schools, and to perfect methods 
of carrying out the work. I hope you will study the report on 
this subject and help the committee. To carry out any such 
movement requires a means of communication, so the Journal 
OF Home Economics was started last winter, with five issues per 
year. It is expected that it will eventually be made a monthly. 
It is hoped that every one will send items of interest in regard to 
the work. 

"In all rural and agricultural education, the girl is acknowl- 
edged to be as important as the boy. Congressman Davis, in 
the provisions of his bill, assumed that the girl needs as much as 
the boy. In many cities girls are not encouraged to go out and 
learn a trade, but in the country the boy holds the plow and the 
girl makes the butter and takes care of the house. Here, surely, 
is our opportunity. Teachers of all Home Economics subjects 
have the greatest chance in the world. They can shape the new 
education to bring all science to the people. Much science is 



1909] Report of the Denver Meeting 321 

brought to the machine shop, to the service of agriculture, but 
not much to the home. It must now be applied to making 
home life more profitable, more comfortable. I want you to 
feel proud of yourselves that you are in this work so early. 

"In response to requests, we ask discussion upon three topics: 
(i) the giving of credits for this work; (2) length of lessons; 
(3) individual vs. group work." 

Miss Adams, Supervisor of Domestic Science at Springfield, 
111., reported that girls who take Domestic Science in the high 
school receive credit in the State University. 

Miss Emma A. Chandler from Oklahoma Agricultural College 
reported a live interest and active cooperation. 

Miss Henry, Denver Manual Training High School, described 
her work, but stated that no credit was obtained. 

Miss X. S. Knowles, of the extension staff of the Iowa State 
College, reported that both long and short courses were taken. 
There was also extension work through women's clubs, mothers' 
clubs, farmers' institutes, and teachers' institutes. Teachers' 
work, especially in physiology, is made more vital by work in 
Domestic Science. 

Miss Morrison of Pueblo, Colo., reported sewing in the fifth and 
sixth grades, and cooking in the seventh and eighth grades, but no 
high school work at present. The time given is one period per day. 

Miss Berry, DeKalb, 111., considered one and one-half periods 
enough, and that more than two hours at one time are wasteful 
of effort. She uses thirty minutes for the presentation of new 
work. It is better for children to have the discussion first. 

Miss Howell, Kansas City, Kans., thought one hour not 
enough, and Miss Tingle, Portland, Ore., deemed two-hour periods 
ideal for children. 

Miss Alice Treganza, Bloomington, 111., reported that work 
was not yet thoroughly organized in the high school of Blooming- 
ton, but that a thorough course in Domestic Science is given in 
the grades. The work is individual, and counts for one and 
one-half hours, or one credit in the high school. 

Miss Mary B. Vail, Denton, Texas, described her school and 
said that this is the only school of its kind in Texas. It consists 
of preparatory work with two years of college work. Miss 
Secrest of San Luis Obispo, California, reported progressive con- 
ditions. Domestic Science in the high school, and Domestic Arts in 
the graded schools were reported by Miss Ward, of Provo,Utah. 



•^2 2 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Professor Rosa Bouton, University of Nebraska, expressed 
her belief in beginning with college work, and working down. 
The subject appears in the four-years college course, the first 
and fourth years taking up Domestic Arts, and the second and 
third years, Domestic Science. The School of Agriculture is 
now working out a high school course, this being only the second 
year since girls were admitted to this school. Credits are given 
for this work. The high school prepares for the university, and 
there are four or five high schools in the State where Domestic 
Science has been established. 

Miss Kerr of Denver stated that at Wolfe Hall Domestic Science 
has one-half credit, and physics another one-half credit. 

The following phases were then considered: 

In what year in the high school is Domestic Science generally 
given? How can it be done when no chemistry or biology is 
given as a prerequisite ? If chemistry follows Domestic Science 
shall the cooking teacher give elementary principles? 

Miss Morgan, Davenport, Iowa, considered that cooking in the 
first year has a tendency to keep children in the high school. The 
consensus of opinion seemed to be that the order of work taken 
and the kind of course given in the high school seem to be 
seriously complicated with the problem of keeping girls in 
school by giving them something attractive. With many 
superintendents and high school masters this is acknowledged. 
Chemistry as usually taught does not attract hence it is not 
given, as it should be, in the earlier years as a prerequisite for 
Domestic Science. Thes ubject matter and method of Domestic 
Science in the high school must .therefore, be studied together with 
the new order of studies and the new contents which it is con- 
ceded must be worked out in the near future if the high school 
is to serve the countr>\ The Domestic Science teacher cannot 
be considered a special teacher, but will become an integral 
part of the whole system. The school superintendent and the 
high school master can no longer shirk their responsibility. 

It was pointed out that one unit of credit means 400 hours of 
lecture and laboratory work, or two periods five times a week. 
Since food work is science, Domestic Science should be inspected 
as other work is, and should be put in an accredited position, as 
has already been done by the Universit}^ of Illinois and the 
University of Chicago. To teach Domestic Art as a credit 



1909] Report of the Denver Meeting 32.3 

subject theory must be illustrated by practice, like chemistry 
and physics. (See June, 1909, number of the Educational 
Review) . 

Mrs. Richards here called attention to the fact that reference 
had been made to the term Domestic Arts, and stated that 
Domestic Art teachers had been too frequently left out of con- 
sideration. Decorative art is said to be more developed than 
Domestic Art, but we shall come to consider right spending of 
more and more importance and hence Domestic Art will develop. 

Miss Minnie A. Stoner, of Wyoming, said that the State Uni- 
versity is the only place of higher education in that State. 
Home Economics work as taught in it aims to meet three pur- 
poses: (i) General culture; (2) training of teachers; (3) a 
University School of Home Economics. In the normal depart- 
ment, covering the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth grades the 
work in Home Economics has yet to be organized on a scientific 
basis. No high school in the state is now giving work, but 
many are planning to do so. It is hoped to help them outline 
their course of study. Cooperative work with farmers' institutes 
is handicapped by distances and lack of railroad facilities. 

In response to a question as to whether the fifth grade is the 
best place to start Domestic Science, Miss Gleason, Supervisor of 
Davenport, Iowa, public school work, expressed a preference for 
the seventh and eighth grades. Below this, hand work includes 
some sewing, but the real sewing begins in the seventh grade. 
There is one period in the forenoon, and one and one-quarter in 
the afternoon. During the coming year it is expected to have 
some work in the high school, although this is not definitely 
planned as yet. Domestic Science has been in the schools some 
fourteen years, and has proved very successful. It begins by 
work on doll clothes. The eighth grade work is for the girls 
themselves, — all hand work. Here the length of lessons is one 
and one-half hours, which for girls in grades is sufficient. Class 
work is not sufficient as pupils must have individual instruction. 
It is still a question whether material shall be furnished by the 
girls or purchased by the teacher and sold to pupils. No credit 
is allowed, because there is no high school work. 

Miss Sabin, President Milwaukee-Downer College, Wisconsin, 
(one of the first women's colleges to take up this work), thought 
Domestic Science to be cultural in its scope. The new high schools 



<«24 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

in the northern part of the State are invariably making provision 
for Domestic Science. It is also taught in one county training 
school. Technical schools are taking it up. There is an en- 
dowed chair of Home Economics in Milwaukee-Downer where 
over 50 young people are preparing to be teachers of this subject. 
Teachers of science look with great respect on the application of 
science to this subject, women's clubs are enthusiastic, and its 
purpose is so rational that it has appealed to many men. 

Mrs. Decker declared that it is all right to teach girls science, 
but wanted to give the woman on the ranch and farm something 
and "don't m.ake it too scientific. Housekeeping, a good old- 
fashioned name, means keeping hearts as well as houses. I 
wish we could keep this term.. We must send students from 
college prepared to adapt themselves to circumstances. I 
plead for the training of rich girls so that they may carry their 
knowledge to the poorer girls who cannot afford to get this 
training." 

Miss Rich, president of the Normal school of Santa Barbara, 
Calif., announced that Governor Gillett is to accept land from 
that city for a State Normal school in Manual Training and 
Hom.e Economics. Here the girls will be trained, the wife and 
mother trained, the children trained, — this will give a new life. 
In the university, home -training should be sensible and practical 
although technical. In public school work the outlook is en- 
couraging. The younger habits will be trained in prevention ; in 
the use of new things, and will not need to have old ways ex- 
plained. 

Miss Tingle of Portland, Ore., spoke of the market crusade 
going on there. The Portland climate is neither hot nor cold, 
and as it is easy to live, the people are easy-going, and the market 
people more easy-going. The Domestic Science teacher in the 
Y. W. C. A. was asked to do something to improve conditions. 
"Through the State Health Oflfice, all back doors, etc., were 
opened. We went to the newspapers; we asked the Woman's 
Club to go on a tour of inspection. All this was brought about 
in three days. On the fourth day a meeting of householders 
was called. The Health Department gave official sanction to 
the movement. Market men were notified that they must clean 
up. A clean list and a dirty list were to be made, and they 
must comply with certain regulations in order to be on the clean 



1909] Report of the Denver Meeting 325 

list. I worked two months, and the city once aroused, decide-d 
that it was a good thing to have inspection made. A woman 
now has the office, and has power of arrest. Conditions are 
by no means perfect yet, but a very different attitude of house- 
keepers and pubHc exists." 

Wednesday Evening, July 7. 

The evening session was called to order by the president in 
Unity Church. An address of welcome was made by Miss Mary 
Rausch of Colorado Agricultural College. Miss Rausch explained 
how conditions differed in Colorado from those in other states, — 
the groups of workers being isolated and made a plea for the 
practical side. She believed in the scientific side as well, but 
insisted that fundamentally we must help women now to make 
their homes better. 

President Harvey of the N. E. A. declared that no subject in 
the educational field is m_ore important than fitting girls for 
their work in life. Home Economics training is being introduced 
into public and into private schools. Probably private schools 
may show more readily what can be done, but then the public 
schools can take it up. Many people all over the country still 
believe that this work should not be given in the public schools, 
but at home. However, as farmers are now educated in agri- 
culture we must persist arid educate women in the fundamental 
principles of their vocation as well. 

Dr. Thomas D. Wood of Teachers College, New York, spoke 
on Higher Ideals of Family Life to be developed through this 
work. In this he pointed out the need of considering the welfare 
of succeeding generations as well as the more immediate necessi- 
ties of the present. Instruction concerning life and health, 
responsibility for the home and parenthood and some of the 
obligations to the future presented, therefore, in his opinion, the 
greatest possibilities. 

Mrs. Guldlin described the work done in Fort Wayne, 
Indiana, where rich and poor work together, without social 
distinctions. Domestic Science has gone into schools because 
there were a few earnest women in the community who have 
worked for it. Industrial education must have a place in school 
even if something must be crowded out to make room for this 
very essential work. 



226 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Miss Emma S. Jacobs, Director of Domestic Science, Public 
Schools, Washington, D. C, spoke of work in rural schools. In 
attending farmers' institutes it was found that in many homes the 
children do not even go to school. There are only little one-room 
houses, not much room, not much money. She said : "We send a 
teacher once a week to show how to wash dishes; how to clean, 
cook, and above all, how to select food. The work has been placed 
in many schools in Maryland, colored as well as white." 

"Another good phase of the work bears upon the question of 
what to do with defective children. We started them in a home, 
in practical work in housekeeping. We believe more and more 
in practical work." 

An address by Mr. Robert S. Hoover of the West High School, 
Cleveland, Ohio, President of the Department of Business 
Education, N. E. A., completed the session. 

Thursday Morning, July 8. 

The session was held in the Central Christian Church. Mrs. 
Richards, in opening the discussion said: "Yesterday morning 
Mrs. Decker made her plea for the three meals a day, clean 
clothes, and clean dishes, and that women be taught how to do 
these things. We learn that women are neglecting this, going 
into bachelor apartments. The wise Home Economics teacher 
is trying to show how to make family life more simple, more 
desirable." 

Settlement work was then discussed, Miss Treganza describing 
conditions in Bloomington, Ills. ; Miss White in Columbus, Ohio; 
Miss Gleason in Chicago; Miss Stoner gave an account of work 
in connection with Teacher's Institutes in Wyoming; Miss 
Williams of Denver told of five years' settlement work in the 
Y. W. C. A.; and Mrs. Guldin spoke of settlement work in 
various places. Miss Howell told of mission work in Topeka 
and Kansas City, among colored people. 

Mrs. Richards spoke of some of the later work as carried on 
with small groups of eight or ten. The work is most efficient 
with small groups; it takes more time, money and strength, but 
something substantial is accomplished. 

Diet kitchens and classes for young society women, were 
described by Miss Kerr, of Wolf Hall. Miss Neft" spoke most 
effectively of work in the school for dependent children in 



1909] Report of the Denver Meeting 327 

Denver. Miss Stoner told of the work in the Haskell Home. 
Here a group of ten children is in charge of one teacher, who 
gives them an idea of home life. Miss Bartlett of San Francisco 
described the Smith Homes in Oakland. These are cottages 
giving girls home life. There are ten girls in each house with a 
house mother. Mrs. Van Wagenen of Denver told of a home for 
girls in Denver where the special bent of the child is made the 
most of. 

Mrs. Richards closed the discussion, saying, that the whole 
note of this work is to give power and the sense of power to do 
something really well. At present so few do work well, and this 
is the cause of unrest. Opportunities for children somewhat 
out of the normal are needed to develop this. What is needed is 
not merely to teach doing things, but to give the feeling of con- 
quering, which develops power. 

A few moments remained which were given to the discussion of 
equipment for teaching Domestic Art. Miss Bouton stated that at 
the University of Nebraska there were five sewing machines for 40 
girls. Miss Howell said that at the Kansas City high school, with 
18 in the class, there were six machines and eight tables. For 
grades where the work was not at one center group work was 
arranged, three buildings to a group. Mrs. Richards remarked 
that this showed good work on meager equipment, but was hard 
on the teacher. 

In the discussion on correlation with other subjects Miss 
Bartlett reported a connection with civics, Miss Himrod that Miss 
Sturgis of Rochester, N. Y., has correlated art and Domestic 
Art, and Miss Vail that papers by Domestic Science girls were pas- 
sed on by English teachers. It is evident that further coopera- 
tion would be beneficial. 

Summary. 
In summarizing the results of the meeting, we notice: first, 
that Domestic Science is now a recognized feature in the elemen- 
tary school curriculum; second, that in the new impetus to the 
introduction of industrial and manual arts, the girls are claiming 
and securing their share of attention. There is now full oppor- 
tunity for concerted work, and for all the good ideas that have 
been worked out anywhere. The Journal will be glad to offer 
itself as a medium for this welding process. 



328 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

In the high school there is found a distinct tendency toward al- 
lowing >^ to I unit credit for "Food Work" with a scientific 
basis. But the work in many high schools is yet of an industrial 
character, or of elementary grade, and does not receive credit. 
No instance of credit for Domestic Art is reported. 

It was most gratifying to learn of the excellent work done in 
many private schools from the settlement up to the technical 
college. The work of Pres. Cree T. Work of Denton, Texas, is 
referred to on the next page of this issue. That of Miss Rich, 
President of the Santa Barbara Normal School, also deserves 
special notice and it is hoped that it can be described in a subse- 
quent number. 

In the present upheaval of the educational system, the college 
has come in for its share of ciritcism and reconstruction, and it is 
evident that when the work that has survived is determined a 
full recognition will be given to Home Economics and euthenics. 

On the whole, every teacher felt an increase of vigor and 
courage with which to attack her problems, of whatever nature 
they may be. 

Consideration of the various methods of organization for 
mutual helpfulness and the desirability of affiliation with the 
National Society was general among those present throughout 
the sessions. Most of those in attendance also joined in the 
sections of the N. E. A. where the subject of Home Economics 
received much attention. In the proposed consolidation of 
N. E. A. departments. Domestic Science is named as a branch of 
the new department of industrial education, so that it perhaps 
will not be necessary to have another meeting separate from the 
association at the time of its session. 



THE INFLUENCE OF INDUSTRIAL ARTS AND SCIENCES 
UPON RURAL AND CITY HOME LIFE.^ 

President Work maintains that courses of art and science 
introduced into schools in the past and intended primarily for so- 
called cultural influence have in the course of development and in 
the order of a new point of view become industrial in their 
significance and bearing. This change has affected not so much 
the terminology of the curriculum as the content of the several 
subjects, more stress being laid on the teaching of particular 
applications and illustrations as presented in the daily life of the 
children; practically every formal subject of the present school 
curriculum may be held to pay tribute to this, the most vital of 
all studies, the upbuilding and preser\^ation of the home. 

The industrial arts and sciences should be taught in the public 
schools in order to develop in our children social efficiency, which 
includes vocational efficiency, demands manual skill, a good 
store of sense— by which we mean information and the ability 
to comprehend and heed the demands of environment. 

While women have a right to enter independent wage earning 
occupations outside the home we must consider the danger of 
making too broad the pathway leading from the home and of 
obscuring the chief practical department of woman's endeavor. 
The problem is a complex one and the solution of the difficulty 
would seem to lie in providing such courses of instruction as 
will give a combined preparation for independent wage earning 
for homxe building and home keeping in the broadest sense. 
"Our cities are filled with miserable women, heartsick men and 
blighted homes due to the lack of instruction for girls in the 
grammar grades and high schools in the fundamentals of Hom.e 
Economics. They must be instructed in the art of making $50 
or $60 a month properly support a comfortable home." 

One effect of the more general introduction of industrial arts 
and sciences vitalized with more of the issues of life will be to 
largely increase the attendance. We shall have more than one 
per cent of our population enrolled in the high schools and more 
than five per cent of those entering the elementary schools will 

aAn abstract of the paper given at the Denver meeting of thp \r F i r> -^ ^ r 
Manual Training, by Cree T.Work, President ColleTe Hndustnai^Afts:^De?tr,'T^x^. °' 



33© The Journal of Home Economics [October 

complete the high school course. When we cease to emphasize 
the instruction that arouses false hopes and ambitions, we shall 
develop a type of mind more sensible, practical and human. 

The term "culture" is an ever-changing name for the ideal 
results of the process we call education, and there are many for 
whom the door of culture is through intelligent industry and 
thought fully directed handwork. "Inspiration may come 
through a glimpse of the activities of life in well organized 
operation, and growth and development often result from the full 
daylight view of humanity in action." 

The industrial arts presented in simple concrete form in 
correlation with other matters of the curriculum give oppor- 
tunity for directing the energy of children which under the 
present system is often wasted or worse. It may be indeed 
better now for the child to leave school and find in the world 
about him the training we have failed to provide in school. 

President Work drew his illustrations from the Texas College 
of Industrial Arts where an attempt has been made to base the 
course of instruction on the practical life interests of women. 
"The physiology and hygiene is taught by a woman physician 
who also gives instruction in home nursing and care of the sick ; 
the work in chemistry and physics draws on the home for its 
problems, drawing finds its application in home decoration, 
designing in millinery and dressmaking and in the planning of 
houses and furniture; the cooking is closely related to portions 
of the dairy work, to botany, to zoology, to chemistry, to physi- 
cal culture and to physiology and hygiene. The mathematics, 
manual training, bookkeeping and domestic economy are 
constantly aiding one another and furnishing rich material for 
the work in political economy and civics. Except for the 
change from one laboratory to another and the printed titles on 
the text books, the student would frequently lose sight of the 
fact that the work which to her is a continuous problem of life 
interests is in many schools regarded as so many distinct and 
unrelated subjects." 

"The training of our girls in all these practical lines does not 
mean that hey are to be slaves to manual labor or that they are 
primarily to substitute their skill for that of commerical workers. 
It means that they will have such a practical and comprehensive 
view of skill and art and science and industry as to make intelli- 



1909] Report of the Denver Meeting 331 

gent use of commercial products and to take an effective interest 
in the supervision and control of the industrial arts and sciences 
as they apply to the home." 

For the training of our boys and girls in these lines we need 
properly trained teachers, plans for instruction, especially 
adapted to local environment and suitable equipment for 
the work. 

In preparing teachers the normal school has a great oppor- 
tunity. Many normal schools offer as yet no courses in Do- 
mestic Science and Domestic Arts in some cases because of 
inadequate equipment, in others because the importance of 
these branches and the length of time necessary' for their study 
have not been realized. 

The indifference or antagonism of colleges and universities is 
another hindrance to the rapid introduction of industrial arts and 
sciences into our secondary and high schools, since they assume 
that the chief function of the lower schools is to prepare for the 
college. 

In the exigencies and legitimate demands of pubHc education 
we are justified in introducing into our schools such courses as 
meet the needs of the vastly larger proportions that are never to 
enter the doors of the college. 



STUDLEY HORTICULTURAL COLLEGE. 

This college was founded at Reading in 1898 by the Countess 
of Warwick, as a college for the instruction of women in the 
lighter branches of agriculture and removed in 1903 to Studley 
Castle, Warwickshire. The course of study includes a con- 
siderable amount of Home Economics work especially as it 
relates to rural life. The park in which the College is situated 
is 340 acres in extent, and includes gardens and glass houses. 
The founder is responsible for the maintenance of the College, 
and Lady Warwick is assisted in its management by a 
committee of ladies and gentlemen. Instruction is given in 
horticulture, dairy work, poultry keeping, bee keeping, fruit 
canning and preserving, marketing, manual processes, and busi- 
ness methods, and students are prepared for the National 
Diploma in Dairying, the Certificates and Diplomas of the 
British Dairy Farmers' Association, the College Certificate and 
Diploma in Dairying, and the examinations of the Royal Horti- 
cultural Society. The Certificate Courses are usually for one 
year, and the Diploma Courses for two years, with three years in 
the case of horticulture and bee keeping combined. The session 
is of forty weeks' duration, and consists of three terms of about 
thirteen weeks each, beginning in September, January and 
May. 

The fees for tuition, board and residence range from $400 to 
$600 per annum, according to the course pursued. The number 
of regular students is between 30 and 40. Nature-study courses 
of two weeks for men and women are also offered in the summer 
for which the fees are about $25. 

Instruction in horticulture and related subjects is also offered 
to women at the Horticultural College, at Swanley, Kent. The 
full course lasts 2 years, and nature-study courses of 2 weeks 
are held each August, principally for teachers. 

The Munster Institute, Cork, offers courses exclusively for 
women in the practice of dairy work ; instruction in the feeding 
and management of cows, calves, and pigs; poultry keeping; and 
domestic work, embracing plain cookery, needlework, and 
laundry work. 



332 



THE FUNCTIONS OF THE TRADE-MARK. 

Anna Roberta Van Meter. 

This is an abridgment of a paper submitted to the Faculty of 
the Graduate School of Arts and Literature, University of 
IlHnois, as a dissertation in candidacy for the degree of Master 
of Science, Department of Household Administration, 1908. 
The complete thesis contains a summary of data as to the origin 
and development of the trade-mark and as to trade-mark 
legislation and its interpretation in the past. Those portions of 
the article which discuss some of the features which characterize 
the use of the trade-mark in the modern business world, and the 
purpose which it now serves in connection with modern methods 
of distributing goods are here presented. 

The present trade-mark a result of changed industrial 
conditions. — The trade-mark as it is now known is but slightly 
related to the various marks and symbols used in the early ages 
in connection with property, and even a century ago it was 
receiving but scant courtesy at the hands of the law. When 
now in the space of a few decades it has become the subject of 
almost world-wide legislation and the object of consideration in 
innumerable decisions a question naturally arises as to the 
circumstances that have brought all this to pass. 

It is unnecessary to do more than to call attention to the 
industrial and commercial evolution which has taken place in the 
last century and a half. One invention after another has come 
into use, multiplying the power of industry a thousand fold. 
Transportation and communication are now worked out in ways 
little short of miraculous. All this has resulted in a general 
contempt for the small and the slow. The tendency apparently 
inherent in man to seek to enlarge his personality by any means 
at his disposal can now work itself out by colossal agencies. If, 
as has been alleged^ men have never lost interest in the pursuit 
of game or in their traps and snares, they find in this machine- 
transformed system of industry opportunity for the exercise of all 
their accumulated powers of cunning and strategy. The free 
use of these has resulted in the peculiar forms of over-grown 
business personality which we know as monopoly. 

•Thomas, Sex and Society, p. 145. 



334 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The trade-mark an agent of monopoly. — Comparing the time 
previous to the introduction of machinery with the present a 
modern writer says': "A further feature of that precapitalistic 
business situation is that business, whether handicraft or trade, 
was customarily managed with a view to earning a livelihood 
rather than with a view to profits on investment." Monopolies, 
however, do not stop even with profits on investments, for the 
essence of a monopoly is the putting forward of all sorts of 
capital-extraordinary in a claim for profits. This assumes the 
modern immaterial form known as "good will" under which head 
is grouped not only such things as established customary busi- 
ness relations and reputation for upright dealing, but formal 
monopoly privileges such as franchises, patent rights, copy- 
rights, brands, and trade-marks as well. "The items included," 
he says, "have this much in common that they are immaterial 
wealth, intangible assets; which, it may be parenthetically re- 
marked, signifies among other things that these assets are not 
serviceable to the community but only to their owners, — they 
are wealth to the individuals concerned but they make no part of 
the wealth of nations." 

Of all the forms in which "good will" emerges to make this 
sort of demand upon the public the trade-mark ranks highest, 
probably, in its showing of "intangible assets." The system of 
protection of trade-mark, says in effect "You may use this mark 
in connection with your goods, and, no matter whether these are 
of peculiar merit or not, you will be protected in the benefits of 
whatever hold you may be able to get upon the public, and this 
whether the protection means benefit to the consumer or not. It 
has indeed been pointed out^, "how willingly the Legislature has 
lent itself, by the comprehensive provisions of the Merchandise 
Mark Acts, to the legal protection of the security enjoyed by 
'proprietary articles' against competition either in price or 
quality. A chemist may make Condy's Fluid (the well known 
disinfecting solution of permanganate of potash) exactly in the 
same way as Condy, cheaper than Condy, and better than Condy, 
but he must not sell, under the only name by which customers 
will ask for it, any but the article supplied — it may be under an 
iron-clad contract — by Condy himself." 



'Veblen, Theory of Business Enterprise. 
^Webb, Industrial Democracy, p. 685. note. 



1909] The Functions of the Trade-Mark 335 

This yearning of the law toward the one who may be termed 
the first comer is but an expression through legislation and judicial 
decision of the general obsession in the direction of the predatory 
and the masterful in business enterprise. Under such a system 
of sympathetic protection the entrepreneur proceeds to extend 
the territory of his influence by means of the addition of various 
intangible assets to his capital. To accomplish this he has 
recourse to two agencies, the one being the primitive marking of 
his wares with a device or symbol, the other the very modern 
practice of advertising. The one is of little use to him without 
the other. Together, however, they are the agents of a form of 
monopoly all the more effective because its hold upon the con- 
sumer is a psychic one to which he unconsciously yields himself. 
"The aim of the wise advertiser," says a psychologist of advertis- 
ing^ , ' ' should be the making of his name or brand to be the habitual , 
recent, and vivid associate with his class of goods." Conversely 
then, the ideal state of mind of the consumer from the point of 
view of the advertiser should be one where he says unconsciously, 
"I know nothing in the matter of supplying my wants beyond 
the fact that the goods I am to buy and pay for are marked with 
a certain symbol which I cannot fail to recognize." An incident 
is related which serves to illustrate such a state of mind on the 
part of the average customer. Certain purchasers had been led 
by the successful methods of advertising used by a certain firm 
of hatters to associate the question of hats with this particular 
firm. When later their attention was directed to a certain style 
of hat advertised by another firm they proceeded to the former 
place and there bought hats which they believed to be the ones 
they had just seen advertised. 

With this end attained by a first comer in a certain field what 
courses are open to another dealer who would attempt to take a 
hand in supplying the same kind of goods? Manifestly but two. 
He may by clever imitation of the first dealer's trade-mark lead 
the hypnotized customer in the direction of his own goods or he 
may by persistent advertising succeed in breaking into his former 
region of attention. In regard to the first alternative the law 
now of course steps in to interfere, while if he adopts the sec- 
ond he gains little in bringing about the deflection in the con- 
sumer's attention from the goods of the first comer unless he at 



»Scott, Theory of Advertising, p. 46. 



336 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

the same time succeeds in directing it in the same hypnotic man- 
ner towards his own. If he fails at this point he has left the 
consumer in a state of mind bordering on intelligence and dis- 
crimination as to the direction of his purchases. 

Attitvide of the courts. — Review of decisions. — If the second 
comer infringes upon the trade-mark of the first, the care of the 
court is directed toward securing the owner of the infringed 
mark in the costs of the advertising which he has put forth in 
giving to his mark a value worth infringing. At the same time, 
a favorable decision here remands the consumer to the servitude 
of the monopoly. 

The reasonable expectation upon the part of the public might 
well be that the courts would in all cases of doubt as to monopoly 
right in the first comer so decide as to give the consumer whatever 
benefit might accrue through freer competition. Attention is 
called in this connection to a few decisions which by the fact of 
their recency are all the more interesting as illustrations of what 
appears to be a growing tendency on the part of the courts to 
disregard the consumer as a factor which might have weight in 
influencing their rulings. More than this the three cases selected 
form a strikingly progressive series. 

In the English case of Reddaway v. Hanham\ the plaintiffs 
were manufacturers of belting for driving machinery. They 
used in its manufacture yarn made from a mixtiire of various 
kinds of hair and wool of animals. This they imported from 
Asia. Although it was not known that the mixed material 
contained camel's hair the belting made from it was stamped 
with the words "Camel's Hair Belting." The defendant, a 
former employee of the plaintiff, having gone into business for 
himself, began the manufacture of a similar belting using similar 
material but stamping his product "Arabian Belting." Later, 
he stamped some of his belting "Camel's Hair Belting" in the 
hope of securing an order for the particular kind of belting which 
had come to be known to the trade as "Camel's Hair Belting." 
He had, however, taken the precaution of assuring himself that 
the hair mixture used by him did in truth contain a considerable 
percentage of camel's hair. The court enjoined him from using 
the words "Camel's Hair Belting" in connection with his goods on 
the ground that the plaintiffs by long association of the name 



•Reddaway v. Hanham, 1896 Appellate Cases, 199. 



1909] The Functions of the Trade-Mark 337 

with their goods had given to the common descriptive words a 
secondary meaning as designating goods of their manufacture 
alone. The fact of intent to defraud upon the part of the 
defendant was it seems also of importance as aflFecting the 
decision. 

But what is, after all, the point at issue? Simply that the 
plaintiffs, having incurred certain bills for advertising their 
goods, seek a monopoly of the market in order that they may be 
enabled to collect the amount of these bills from the public. We 
have but to eliminate the question of the expense of the plaintiff's 
advertising in order to see that beyond that he has no claim. 

But it may be argued and indeed the plaintiff claimed that 
the defendant's belting was of inferior quality, and that the 
public was deceived thereby. That may have been true in that 
instance. But in an American case^ in which the plaintiffs sought 
to restrain the defendants from advertising as an aluminum wash- 
board one made of an inferior metal, the judge ruled 'Tt is doubt- 
less morally wrong and improper to impose upon the public by the 
sale of spurious goods, but this does not give rise to a private right 
of action unless the property rights of the plaintiff are thereby 
invaded." In other words that the advertiser is not the custodian 
of the community's interests. 

If instead of the case as it came before the court let it be 
assumed that not only the plaintiff and the defendant but the 
consumer as well appeared as parties to the suit. Manifestly a 
decision issuing from the merits of the case gives to the plaintiff 
the right to manufacture belting from camel's hair and call the 
same camel's hair belting. It further extends the same right to 
the defendant and to any others who may elect to take up a like 
business. It extends to the consumer the right to the benefits 
accruing from competition and also the right to assurance, pos- 
sibly through government inspection, that belting intended for 
use in connection with dangerous machinery is of a certain grade, 
no matter by whom manufactured. 

A second case", may be stated briefly as folloAvs: The com- 
plainant manufactured, sold, and advertised a preparation of 
rennet under the name "Junket Tablets," used in making a 
food delicacy called Junket. The word Junket, while recognized 



lAmerican Washboard Co. v. Saginaw Manf. Co., Fed. Reporter, v. 103, p. 285. 
"Hansen v. Siegel Cooper, Fed. Reporter, v. 106, p. 691. 



338 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

in the English language as the name of the food, had never been 
previously used as applied to rennet or any preparation thereof, 
and, through its use by him in the name of his preparation, had 
acquired a secondary meaning as identifying his goods. The 
decision was that he was entitled to an injunction against the use 
by the defendant, a later dealer, of the name "Junket Capsules" 
for a similar preparation put up in capsules, but that the latter 
had the right to designate his preparation as for use in making 
Junket, provided the word was given no greater prominence than 
the rest of the designation. 

In delivering the opinion of the court it was said: "The 
dictionaries cited by defendant (Century, Standard) show that 
the word Junket was recognized in the English language meaning 
a sweetmeat, or cream cheese, or a delicacy made of curds 
flavored and served with cream; also a drink made of cream, 
rennet, spice, and spirits. In view of the fact that rennet is used 
in the preparation of Junkets, the use of the phrase Junket 
Tablets, as applied to rennet preparations, may be to a certain 
extent regarded as descriptive ; but evidently the advertisements 
and demonstrations of complainant have given to the word 
'Junket' a secondary meaning associated with the goods of 
complainant. The case seems entirely within the rules laid 
down in recent authorities, [among others Reddaway v. Han- 
ham]. There is no contention that the complainant's mode of 
putting up has been copied or simulated. Indeed, inspection 
of the packages shows that in that respect there has been perfectly 
fair trading. Injunction will issue, therefore, only against the 
marking, advertising, selling and offering for sale of the goods as 
Anker's Junket Tablets or Anker's Compressed Junket Tablets, or 
any similar designation. 

"The injunction, however, will contain the following clause: 
This injunction shall not be construed to prevent the defendant 
from marking, advertising, selling, and offering for sale under 
the designation Anker's Capsules for making Junket, or under 
any similar designation, provided there be nothing in the location, 
type, coloring, etc., of the word Junket to give it any greater 
prominence than the rest of the designation." 

From the writer's standpoint this case is more interesting than 
that of Reddaway v. Hanham for the reason that here the court 
goes a step farther in the direction of giving protection to the 



1909] The Functions of tlie Trade-Mark 339 

first comer. "The phrase Junket Tablets," said the judge, "as 
applied to rennet preparations may be to a certain extent descrip- 
tive ; but evidently the advertisements and demonstrations of com- 
plainant have given to the word Junkets a secondary meaning 
associated with the goods of complainant." 

But notice farther. "There is," he says, "no contention that 
the complainant's mode of putting up has been copied or simu- 
lated. . . in that respect there has been perfectly fair trading." 

The case of the plaintiff in this suit is further weakened by the 
reasonable presumption that, since Junket is a dish known to the 
housekeepers of several generations, at least .infusions or other prep- 
arations of rennet were sometimes spoken of as Junket material. 
Indeed, a more evolutionary view of the case may be postulated 
by imagining a child sent to a neighbor's to obtain rennet for 
making junket. On the way the name rennet slips his memory. 
Many agreeable experiences, however, have served to impress on 
his mind the name Junket. He therefore, extricates himself 
from his dilemma (albeit shamefacedly) by making request for 
some "junket stuff." Left to himself, the demand of the con- 
sumer is likewise the simple one for "junket stuff." The plaintiff 
had, however, spent money in an attempt to change this natural 
demand into an artificial one directed towards his own goods, and 
it must be conceded that it is upon the fact of this situation 
fundamentally that the decision of the court rests. 

The case of Cash v. Cash^ may be stated in a few words. In 
1895 the firm of J. and J. Cash of Coventry, manufacturers of 
frillings known as Cash's frillings, was converted into a limited 
company. Joseph Cash, one of the members of the old firm, was 
made one of the directors of the company but under bond not to 
resign or to enter into business for himself under five years. In 
1898 he obtained permission to resign his directorship. He 
then formed a company known as Joseph Cash Ltd. and began 
the manufacture of frillings and other trimmings. As the result 
of a suit brought against him by the earlier company his business 
was enjoined, the court holding that it was impossible for him 
to manufacture frillings, etc., without the same being known as 
"Cash's frillings." 

This case may be regarded as a striking illustration of the acute 
stage of this peculiar yearning of the law toward the "first 

'Cash V. Cash, 84 L. T. N. S. 349. 



340 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

comer." The evidence showed that the defendant was released 
from his contract with the plaintiff by mutual consent. There 
was no contention that he was using similar marks or labels in 
connection with his goods. Further, the reasonable presump- 
tion is that he had previously helped in building up whatever 
good will the business already possessed in association with the 
name Cash, and that his goods were of equal grade with those of 
the original company. Granting, now, that the public demanded 
"Cash's frillings" in preference to any other, upon what grounds 
did the court base its decision granting monopoly rights to the 
first company and in what way was the public served thereby? 

In Reddaway v. Hanham, the second comer was enjoined 
from using descriptive words in marking his goods, upon evi- 
dence of intent to defraud; in the Junket Tablets case the 
second comer was enjoined from using a descriptive word in 
designating his goods, the evidence showing no premeditation of 
unfair trade; in Cash v. Cash the second comer was enjoined 
from manufacturing goods under his own name upon the presump- 
tion that the use of the latter would create direct competition 
with the goods of the first comer. 

InterdepeJidence of the trade-mark and advertising. — Many 
writers have pointed out the interdependence of the trade-mark 
and the modern advertising system. In one instance^ reference 
is made to the "good-will" of the first comer as depending upon 
industry, merit, and vast sums spent in advertising. Notice may 
be directed to the interesting cycle indicated by the statement 
that the modern colossal growth of advertising is absolutely 
dependent on the power of the law to protect the trade-mark^ 
Another writer^ says "It is not a simple matter for a new product 
to gain that confidence and popularity [possessed by one well 
known]. Enormous outlays for newspaper and other forms of 
advertising must be made, if a new preparation is to be brought 
before the American public, and popularity can be kept up only 
by keeping up the advertising." 

Cost of advertising. — "The cost of this advertising often forms 
a heavy burden upon the price of the product." Further it may 
be said that "if some prepared breakfast cereal is retailed at fifteen 
cents a box, the largest part of the price undoubtedly represents 

iTwo Centuries' Growth of American Law, p, 442. 

albid, p. 437- 

sRubinow, J. Pol. Econ., v. 13, pp. 576 et seq. 



1909] The Functions of the Trade-Mark 341 

cost of advertising." This statement cannot be considered 
extravagant if it is remembered that advertising space in the 
popular magazines is considered cheap at $540.00 per page^ 
which represents, as a matter of course, a sum equal to the retail 
price of thirty-six hundred packages of cereal at the price 
mentioned. In the case of those retailing at ten cents per 
package five thousand four hundred packages would be required 
to pay for one full page advertisement in a single issue of one 
periodical. Or. let it be assumed that one such advertisement 
leads to the sale of ten thousand eight hundred packages at ten 
cents per package. One half the amount realized will then serve 
to pay the cost of the advertisement, while the remainder must 
be made to provide for the raw material used, cost of manufacture, 
profits on investment, expenses of wrappings and transportation, 
together with the wholesale and retail profits involved in getting 
the entire output to the consumer. 

Again, when we find three breakfast foods, extensively and 
persistently advertised, each claiming to be a special kind of corn 
preparation and all retailing at the same price per package of given 
weight, the utter wastefulness of the modern system of advertising 
is perhaps more clearly shown. In this case there may be 
little or no choice as between the merits of the three preparations, 
and yet the consumer is importuned from every bill-board to 
choose one above the others. But no matter which one she may 
select she pays for it reflecting, if she cares to do so, that the 
price asked includes not only cost of production plus profits, but 
also inevitably a definite proportion to the sum which the firm has 
seen fit to play in the game of advertising. The object of such 
a struggle as this is of course in the interest of the brand or trade- 
mark which it is hoped will give to the user a peculiar advantage 
over competitors, and although the three brands may be at 
present in practical equilibrium of influence each one in the hope 
of finally gaining some advantage is willing to hold to the original 
course so long as the consumer pays the bill without question. 

Attention is called to a means of advertising as obvious as the 
bill-board system, only to suggest the expense of such items as 
leases, construction and repairs, to say nothing of salaries and 
travelling expenses of solicitors connected with it. 

In contrast with this is the rather subtle method of calling 
attention by means of demonstrations of their merits. Of special 

•Harper's Magazine Advertiser, April, 1908, Testimonial L. E. Waterman Co. 



342 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

interest in connection with the Junket Tablets case is the fact 
that for many years during which this preparation has been on 
the market the manufacturers have maintained a demonstrator 
in the grocery department of a large department store in Chi- 
cago. Nor is she alone in this work. A visit to the store shows 
demonstrations of one kind of goods or another on every hand, 
inquiry bringing out the information that the number carried on 
from day to day ranges from twenty to thirty. The salaries paid 
these women by the manufacturers they represent are about 
double the wages received by the regular clerks in the store. 
The competition here is in most cases as keen as that in other 
forms of advertising, demonstrations of rival brands of lard sub- 
stitutes, cocoa, and what not, being carried on side by side. In 
the opinion of one demonstrator the scheme is very much over- 
worked and will soon have to be abandoned in favor of some 
more effective method. Incidentally, of course, all this gives 
employment to a number of people, but any discussion of an 
adjustment of benefits which it may be possible to make between an 
artificial employment and the artificial demand upon which the em- 
ployment is based is entirely beyond the scope of the present paper. 

Attitude of the consumer. — It now remains to inquire why the 
consumer makes so little effectual protest against all this en- 
croachment upon his interests. A partial explanation is found 
in his lack of adjustment to what may be termed a remote source 
of supply. As has been said, "When most men bought their 
wares at the maker's door, there was little need for a mark of 
identification on the goods." Now, however, the consumer is 
appalled by the impersonality connected with the supplying of 
his wants. Confused and bewildered by the magnitude and 
variety of the offering, he is glad to seize upon any sign or symbol 
which may have come to have a friendly or reassuring associa- 
tion. The trade-mark and the dictatorial advertisement appear 
to him as guides in the wilderness. 

Further the whole subject of consumption is found receiving 
little attention at the hands of economists themselves. It is 
small wonder then that the individual consumer submits unthink- 
ingly to many forms of dictation as to the direction and cost of his 
purchases. 

In the home, the headquarters, so to speak, of ultimate con- 
sumption, it may be observed that where one housekeeper makes 



1909] The Functions of the Trade-Mark 343 

a definite study of her needs and of the means for supplying them 
thousands of others look no further in the matter than the ques- 
tion of brand or price. Take as illustration a commodity in such 
general use as baking powder. The demand is made not for a 
certain grade or quality except in so far as these may be associa- 
ted with a certain known brand. In the course of her experience 
she finds a cream of tartar baking powder satisfactory, but, in- 
stead of knowing it as such and as costing to make (including 
profits all along the line) some twenty-eight cents a pound she 
knows it only under some special trade name at fifty cents a 
pound. Contrast this attitude with that maintained by one who 
may be termed an intelligent purchaser of the same class of goods. 
The following extract is from a letter received from the president 
of a well-known firm of bakers. "At one time in the early ages,' 
he writes, "we did buy an extensiv^ely advertised brand, but on 
investigation found that we were paying for advertisements in 
addition to the actual value of the baking powder^" Again the 
prevalent predisposition of mind toward admiration and approval 
of business enterprise leads the consumer to contribute uncon- 
cernedly or even boastingly toward his own undoing. 

An excellent illustration of this may be found in a book^ in 
which the author in discussing the theory of advertising, sets 
forth clearly the forces, not to say tricks, which must be brought 
into play by the advertiser if his goods are to obtain a psychic 
hold upon the public. Schemes for making the small appear large 
and the short appear long are explained without apology. And 
although the writer is himself a consumer pure and simple he 
declares in conclusion that he shall feel the book has accomplished 
its mission if it shall assist business men to any extent in acquir- 
ing this necessary knowledge, or if it shall throw light upon the true 
principles of a most important part of modem business. 

Whether the consumer in influenced in his choice by either 
bewilderment, ignorance, or deliberate misapprehension of his 
own position, to just that extent has he yielded up his bargaining 
power. 

Summary. — To summarize it has been seen that in the modem 
system of distribution the trade-mark is intended to give a cur- 



1 While the firm in question cannot be regarded as consumers of baking powder, 
their position in the matter of its selection is no more advanced than one which could be 
taken with profit by any consumer in supplying his personal wants. 

aScott, loc. cit. pp. 163 and 233. 



344 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [October 

rency and acceptability value to the goods with which it is 
associated greater than that inhering in the goods themselves; 
that this value consists in the psychic hold which the goods may 
have attained on the public through the medium of advertising, 
and also that the cost of this advertising is added inevitably to 
the price of the goods. Further, in connection with many situa- 
tions, the advertising is no longer a legitimate instrument for 
giving information but is rather the wager in a desperate and 
costly game played in the hope of holding the field. At the same 
time the public through the medium of the courts or through its 
own ignorance, carelessness, or mistaken endorsement of the 
present militant system of business has contributed to increase 
the insignificance now attaching to its own role as consumer. 

The situation, however, is not unique among many that have 
arisen in connection with aggressive enterprises. Many agencies 
in themselves of valid service to society have been so selfishly 
promoted as to become little short of oppressive. New methods 
of transportation and communication came as a boon bringing 
much in the way of convenience and satisfaction in social inter- 
course. But while the public has been absorbed in self-congratu- 
lation the machinery of these things has been precipitated upon 
it bodily. It is possible to travel fast and far, but the street be- 
fore the door cannot be crossed in comfort or safety. Messages 
flash through vast space, but in the din of it all the voice of 
conversation is swallowed up. 

There is no plea here for a return to the crude simplicity of 
other days when goods were "bought at the maker's door." 
Nevertheless the evidence is offered as showing that individual 
initiative, however essential it may be to social progress, is in no 
wise to be trusted to restrain itself at the point where it be- 
gins to transcend the interests of those whom it is supposed to 
serve. 



AN ESSAY ON DIGESTION: 1825. 

Lafayette B. Mexdel. 
The modern theories of the functions of the digestive glands 
and their secretions form a part of the science of nutrition so 
significant and so intimately concerned in it that we rarely appre- 
ciate the intellectual struggle once caused by the advocacy of 
these views. The pioneer work of Dr. Beaumont in his studies 
of digestion has left an indelible impression on the history of 
physiology, especially in America. In a paper published eariier 
m this Journal^ reference was made to some trends of physio- 
logical opinion in this country at the opening of the nineteenth 
century and previous to the classic researches on Alexis St Martin 
"the man with the lid on his stomach." The work of Reaumur 
and Spallanzani which established the chemical, solvent action of 
the gastric juice upon the basis of experimental observation had 
begun to attract attention in the teaching of the oldest medical 
schools m America. Hunter's observations on the post-mortem 
"erosions of the stomach" were likewise drawn into consideration. 
The status of the physiology of digestion at the period to 
which reference is here made may best be outlined by a few 
quotations from a popular book of that time, edited by a well 
known Philadelphia teacher.^ The relative part which the 
stomach plays in the alimentary changes is pointed out very cleariy . 
"The stomach has ever been considered as the principal organ 
of digestion, yet its function in that process is but secondary and 
preparatory: it is not in the stomach, that the principal and 
most essential phenomenon of digestion takes place, I mean the 
separation of the nutritive from the excrementitious part of the 

After an entertaining critique of the older hypotheses broached 
to explain the mechanism of digestion, viz. concoction, fermenta- 
tion, putrefaction, and maceration of the food taken into the 
cavity of the stomach, the author outlines what we may interpret 
as the newer ideas then current. 

"The gastric juice not only pervades and dissolves the food 
received into the stomach, but it unites and ultimately combines 
with It, completely alters its nature and changes its composition. 

aj. Home Econ i, (1909) p. 255. 
^g6R.cherand s Elements of Physiology, with notes by N. Chapman, M.D., Philadelphia. 



34S 



246 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The gastric juice acts, in a manner peculiar to itself, on the food 
exposed to its action, and far from inducing a beginning of putre- 
faction, suspends on the contrary and corrects putrescency. 
However powerful the efficacy of the gastric juice to dissolve the 
alimentary substances, it does not direct against the coats of the 
stomach its active solvent faculty. These parietes endowed with 
life, powerfully resist solution. . . But when the stomach and 
other organs have lost their vitality, its parietes yield to the 
solvent power of the juices which it may contain, they become 
softened, and even in part destroyed, if we may believe Hun- 
ter. . . It is now pretty generally admitted, that digestion in 
the stomach consists in the solution of the food in the gastric 
juice. This powerful solvent penetrates, in every direction, the 
alimentary mass, removes from one another, or divides its mole- 
cules, combines with it, alters its inward composition, and im- 
parts to it qualities very different from those which it possessed 
before the mixture. . . It is highly probable that its chemical 
composition varies at different times; that it is acid, alkaline, or 
saponaceous, according to the nature of the food. Although the 
gastric juice be the most powerful agent of digestion, its solvent 
power requires to be aided by several secondary causes, 
one might therefore say, that the process of digestion is at once 
chemical, mechanical, and vital; in that case, the authors of the 
theories just broached, have been wrong in ascribing to one 
cause, such as heat, fermentation, putrefaction, trituration, 
maceration, and the action of the gastric juice, a process which is 
the result of a concurrence of these causes united." 

Another contemporaneous picture is drawn by Philip in his 
Treatise on Indigestion. '^ 

"It has been ascertained by the experiments of Spallanzani and 
others, that the stomach secretes a fluid capable, even out of the 
body, of converting the food into such a mass as that into which 
it is changed in the stomach, immediately before it is sent into the 
duodenum. This fact leaves no room to doubt, that it is by the 
agency of the above fluid that the food undergoes the change 
which is effected on it in the stomach ; and it appears from the 
observations of Mr. Hunter, that such is the power of this fluid, 
that it corrodes the stomach itself when deprived of the vital 
principle by which it is enabled to resist its action. When to 
these facts we add, that by means of the muscular power of the 
stomach, the food, when duly prepared by the action of the gastric 
fluid, is propelled into the duodenum, we state the sum of our 
knowledge on this subject." 

On the basis of his observations the author then adds this 
interesting summary quite in harmony with present-day concep- 
tions of the location of the digestive activities in the stomach. 



aT)ie quotation is from the Philadelphia edition of 1823. 



I 



1909] An Essay on Digestion: 182- 



347 



"From all that has been said it appears that the process which 
the food undergoes in the stomach is that of being formed into a 
mass, in appearance nearly homogeneous; that this process takes 
place only on or near the surface of the stomach, and that, in 
proportion as the food there situated undergoes the necessary 
change, it is by the muscular power of the stomach moved on- 
wards towards the pylorus. . . till the whole contents of the 
stomach have undergone this process, the digested contents being 
regularly discharged into the duodenum." 

It must be frankly admitted — and this deserves due emphasis 
even to-day — that the progress made was an outcome of the 
introduction of the experimental method. Conclusions were 
at length based on observation rather than argument and analogy. 
As an illustration of the sophistries with which the progressive 
science of physiology was obliged to contend in its earlier days in 
this country, and of the energy with which the opponents of 
the newer doctrines met the issues, I wish to review a long- 
forgotten monograph: A Physiological Essay on Digestion, 
published in 1825 by Nathan R. Smith, M.D., then professor of 
Anatomy and Physiology in the University of Vermont. Dr. 
Smith was the son of an eminent teacher and well-known medical 
writer of the day— Dr. Nathan Smith of Yale— under whom he 
studied medicine, receiving the degree of M.D. in 1823. At 
about the period of publication of the essay on digestion he spent 
some time in attending lectures at the University of Pennsylvania. 
Whether the teachings which he may have heard there had an 
influence on the paper before us is not apparent. The immediate 
purpose of the essay is to deny the validity of the then current 
teaching regarding the solvent powers of the gastric juice and 
the theories of digestion based upon it. Beaumont, it will be 
remembered, had not yet published his Physiology of Digestion 
which definitely silenced such views as Smith promulgated in this 
paper dedicated "to those whose talents and candour elevate 
them above the local and personal partialities and prejudices, 
which characterize too many of our profession." Contributing 
no essential, new observations, the author contented himself 
largely with an attack on "the present mode of reasoning on 
these subjects." The point of view, quite foreign to our present 
day notions, was summarized in these words: 

"When we confine our inquiries to any particular science, with 
the laws of which we are unacquainted, and reason from an effect 



348 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

to a cause, which in its operations we know to be controlled by 
those laws, there need be no fallacy. But, if we enter another 
field of science, the laws of which we have not investigated, and 
reason from an effect to a cause, we shall almost certainly fall into 
an error, for we unconsciously attribute the effect to a cause with 
the operations of which we are familiar. Thus, if we combine 
two inorganic substances, and after a time, observe that a remark- 
able change has taken place in their properties, we at once, and 
with propriety, attribute it to the influence of chemical affinities ; 
for we know that such substances are exclusively under the 
control of physical properties. But if we convey certain sub- 
stances into the stomach of an animal, a polypus for instance, 
and upon removing them after a considerable time, discover that 
they have become very much changed, having received new 
chemical and sensible properties, it is altogether unwarrantable 
to infer that these changes are wholly the effect of chemical 
influence ; for as the stomach of this and every other animal is 
imbued with certain vital properties, and as we are not yet fully 
acquainted with their laws or uniform habits of action, we cannot 
say how much, in this instance, is to be attributed to their 
influence. 

"That similar effects, then, in any particular science are 
referrible to the same cause, is generally true; but that similar 
effects in two distinct sciences, the cause being kno\\Ti in one, are 
referrible to the same cause, is, in principle, false." 

The scientist of modem times would find less consolation in 
fixing the limits of knowledge as did Dr. Smith. 

"How much more happily then are we circumstanced," he 
writes, "than were the earlier physiologists, who for the want of 
these simple truths, exhausted the efforts of many great m.inds 
upon subjects which the author of nature has rendered incompre- 
hensible. For centuries the efforts of the human mind have been 
lost ; occasionally indeed a transcendent genius has intuitively 
fallen upon an important truth, but without being conscious of 
the mental process that led to it, and, of course, without being 
able to establish any uniform principles of reasoning, which 
should confirm his own discoveries and lead on to others; hence 
the world has been but little benefitted by those flashes of truth, 
which found and left it in the darkness." 

Experiments on animals must be accepted with the greatest 
reserve, in Dr. Smith's opinion; arguments drawn from analogy 
"are often exceedingly useful." 

Dr. Smith realized, indeed, that the "chemical theory of 
digestion" was winning the confidence of the medical world; 
"so con "^ dent are men of science in its imperishable nature that all 
our systems of physiology and pathology are founded upon it as 



1909] An Essay on Digestion: 1825 



349 



their comer stone." He was prepared to meet a formidable 
opponent. Here are his own words: 

"The earhest writers on this subject, were of opinion, that the 
change effected on the aHment in the stomach was Httle else 
than the result of putrefaction. Unsophisticated in the logic 
of the natural philosophers and chemists, they supposed the food 
to undergo the same change which warmth and moisture effect 
upon It out of the body. But when the physical sciences had 
made some progress, and men of learning were habituated to 
reason almost exclusively on physical principles, the mechanism of 
the system was alone talked of, and the stomach wrought 
mechanically upon its contents. As chemistry began to assume 
the character of a science, it also, was very prolific in physiologi- 
cal explanations, and digestion was wholly chemical. 

"It were ridiculous in us, as it has appeared in many writers, on 
this subject, to inflict, Hke Falstaff, a new stab on these dead 
theories, for the sake of making the victory, in part, our own. 
As shown in our introduction, they are obviously inconsistent 
with principles of medical logic, now well established. We enter 
the field armed with our .sling and stone, (common sense and 
truth) against a far more formidable adversary, in the prime of 
life, mailed in all the sophistry of the age, and backed by universal 
approbation." 

Let us examine the objections formulated by Dr. Smith. 

"It appears," he writes, "that Chesselden, Reaumur, and 
Spallanzani were led to anticipate the existence of a powerful 
solvent m the stomach, from comparing the changes which the 
food undergoes in that organ, with results obtained in their 
laboratories. 

"This was evidently predicting the means by which Nature 
should accomplish her ends, in one department of science, by 
observing what she has done in another, in which the properties 
of matter, and the laws by which they are exerted, are entirely 
different. 

"It is only in the character of humble enquirers, who submit 
themselves to the guidance of such facts as they may discover, 
that men have extended the boundaries of knowledge. 

"Were it impossible that the changes effected on the aliment in 
the stomach should be accomplished in any other way than by 
a mechanical or chemical process, their conclusion would be just, 
for there could be no fallacy in reasoning from an effect to a 
cause, the operations of which we are acquainted with. But, 
knowing the distinction which exists between the physical and 
physiological sciences, it is not only possible, but even probable, 
that this change is wrought by a cause, the operations of which 
we are but Httle acquainted with. It is incumbent on those, 
therefore, who maintain the above position, not merely to show 



350 The Journal of Home Economics rOctober 

the effect, but to demonstrate unequivocally that the gastric 
fluid possesses such properties as are capable of producing the 
effects attributed to it, or to show that they can be accomplished 
in no other way." 

The author very properly calls attention to the uncertainty of 
the evidence regarding the assumed acid properties of the gastric 
juice — a feature which it will be remembered was not definitely 
established until late. He lays emphasis on the reports of 
Montegre tending to show that outside of the stomach the gastric 
juice ' 'is as inert as water. ' ' At the present time it seems probable 
that this investigator was dealing with swallowed saliva in his 
much quoted experiments. With regard to the classic observa- 
tions of Hunter that erosions of the coats of the stomach may 
take place after death, Dr. Smith rejects the idea that "this 
(gastric) fluid acts thus upon the dead stomach, with an energy 
equal to that of the most powerful acids." 

"Who, therefore, will undertake to say, that the above men- 
tioned erosions of the stomach are effected by a fluid, secreted by 
that organ, and possessing remarkable chemical properties, be- 
cause it is impossible that they can be accomplished in any other 
way? We know, very well, the extreme vascularity of the 
stomach and that its capillary vessels, and particularly its 
absorbents, act with unparallelled energy. We know also, that 
different portions of the stomach derive their vitality from dif- 
ferent portions of the nervous system. Is it not possible, there- 
fore, to conceive that one part of the stomach, having lost its 
vitality, may be acted upon by another which retains it ? It is 
by no means incumbent upon me to make out even the proba- 
bility of this supposition, the bare possibility of it is obviously 
sufficient for my purpose." 

How Smith accounts for the disappearance of food from hol- 
low balls introduced into the stomach — the widely quoted 
experiments of Spallanzani — will be referred to presently. 

Here is the essence of the theory of digestion which he proposes : 

"My proposition is, that the first step of digestion is effected by 
capillary veins, originating in the villi of the stomach with absorb- 
ing extremities, and terminating in the great branches of the vena 
portae. The arguments in favor of it are drawn from the results 
of certain experiments, from the nature of the change effected 
on the aliment, from the analogy of plants with animals and from 
the anatomy and pathology of the digestive organs." 

We are thus better prepared to understand another of his 
objections to the chemical functions of the stomach. He 
argues : 



1909] An Essay on Digestion: 1825 351 

"If this opinion be correct, digestion is the only instance in the 
animal economy in which an important change is wrought upon a 
large volume of matter in any of the large reservoirs. All the 
changes, which are effected upon the aUment after its mingling 
with the blood, are wrought in the capillary vessels of the lungs 
and the nutrient vessels of each tissue to which it is appropriated. 
In fine, all the changes w^hich are wrought upon the blood, either 
for more perfect anim.alization, secretion, exhalation, or any other 
purpose are wrought in the capillary tissues, where the circulating 
fluids, becoming exceedingly attenuated, are subjected to the 
peculiar action of the vessels which convey them. No changes 
are wrought upon the blood in the heart or in any of the great 
blood vessels. 

"Glandular structures appear to be little else than congeries of 
minute vessels, for the purpose of increasing the surface with 
which the contained fluids are in contact and thus subjecting 
them more fully to their peculiar action. 

"Is it not surprising, therefore, that so great a change can be 
effected upon a large mass in the stomach, when, to accomplish 
changes much less important, it is necessary that the matter 
acted upon should be made to pass through vessels indefinitely 
multipHed? It will presently be seen that, by the hypothesis 
which I offer, this difficulty is not incurred, since, by that, the 
more important part of digestion itself is effected in the capillary 
vessels." 

The subsequent fate of the gastric chyme has even until very 
recent years been the subject of uncertainty. By earlier writers 
it was assumed to be converted into the chyle of the lacteals in 
some vague way and there to be endowed with distinct "animal 
properties." Smith recognized the weakness in the current 
statements and adapted it to meet his newly promulgated views. 
Some physiologists maintained that by the action of the bile, etc. 
in the duodenum the chyle was prepared for the lacteals. 

"I will hazard the assertion," writes Smith, "that there was 
never a particle of what was ascertained to be chyle, obtained from 
any other source than that of the lacteals or thoracic duct. The 
existence of chyle in the intestines has been presumed from the 
belief that the lacteals have no power to effect a change on their 
contents, and that consequently they were taken up precisely as 
they are found in them. If this be the case, the conclusion is 
palpably false, for who can say that the lacteals have no peculiar 
actions by which their contents are wrought upon? ... I 
think it may be with safety asserted, that no animal properties 
can be demonstrated in any substance which has not been sub- 
jected to the action of capillary vessels." 



352 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Sufficient details of this unique explanation may be con- 
sidered here in order to elucidate the author's conception of the 
digestion process. 

"On the supposition that the villi of the stomach act upon the 
aliment as suggested above, electing from it such principles as are 
subservient to nutrition, the appearances of the chyme are pre- 
cisely what we should expect. The sensible properties of chyme 
suggested to some of the older anatomists the idea that the ali- 
ment, was, in the stomach, attacked by a myriad of small worms 
which reduced it to the uniform pulpy mass of this substance.*^ 

' 'That this may be effected by a myriad of absorbing mouths, the 
changes which take place in the aliment render not improbable. 
An extremely minute mechanical division would of course be 
effected upon it, and perhaps many substances would be de- 
composed, some of their proximate principles being taken up. 
A change in the sensible and chemical properties equivalent to 
what we actually discover would of course take place. We should 
also expect that the chyme be variable in its appearance as the 
food employed varies. 

"The manner in which different portions of aliment are succes- 
sively changed is also much more satisfactorily explained by our 
hypothesis, for that only can be acted upon which is in contact with 
the surface of the stomach. This, as stated by W. PhiHp, by the 
peculiar action of the muscular coat of the stomach, is made to 
give place to another layer and the digested portion is conveyed 
to the pyloric extremity. The appropriate motions of the 
stomach are constantly evolving the central parts of the mass 
and bringing them in contact with the surface." 

Attention was drawn to the analogous action of the "radicles" 
of the stomach and those of plants in the soil. Each draw 
nourishment into an organism. 

"By the pre\'ailing theory of digestion, however, an action, by 
no means analogous to that of the radicles of plants, is attributed 
to the villi of the stomach, for these last are supposed merely to 
exhale a fluid which acts chemically upon the contents of the 
organ. Thus too, the digestion of an animal must be less under 
the control of vital or organic properties than that of the humblest 
plant; for in the latter, nothing appears to be left to the agency 
of physical properties, but all to be accomplished by the vital or 
organic powers." 

Smith attempts to anticipate criticisms of the views which he 
presents: 



a Perhaps they were as near the truth as those who consider the process to be performed 
a chemical agent, for neither the existence of these wonderful worms, nor of the not less 
wonderful fluid can be proved, and if we reason from the effect alone, we should with 
more propriety ascribe it to the former." 



1 



1909] An Essay on Digestion: 182 j 353 

"It might, perhaps, be thought that if the veins of the stomach, 
in addition to their transmitting the blood which they receive 
from the arteries, do also absorb and convey so great a volume of 
aliment, they should be found in greaternumbers, in proportion to 
the arteries, than in other organs. 

' 'In reply, it is only necessary to call to mind that the arteries of 
the stomach during digestion are exhaling as great a volume of 
fluid as is absorbed by the veins. Here we may notice, too, in 
the supposition, an interesting correspondence of action which 
supports the doctrine of venous absorption. 

''That the arteries of many organs copiously exhale, no one 
doubts. That the veins absorb is not so demonstrable; but 
when we take into consideration the relation between the arteries 
and veins, that the arteries convey the blood from the center of the 
system, and that the veins return it, absorption is certainly the 
function which, in the veins, corresponds to exhalation of the 
arteries." 

From one who warns against the "perplexing sophistries" of 
his colleagues, the following feeble attempt at a real explanation 
of a physiological phenomenon will appear surprising to say the 
least. 

"How it is that these phenomena are accomplished, we cannot 
say. Perhaps they may be taken up in a state of extreme com- 
minution, and perhaps they may be resolved, by the powers of 
life, into their ultimate, or in some instances, their proximate 
principles. 

'"That our food, solid and fluid, should be taken up by the veins 
of the stomach with sufhcient rapidity to be subservient to diges- 
tion, is certainly not absurd. Vascular and nervous as the stomach 
is, we are to presume that its vital energies, in this respect, are 
far superior to those of any other tissues in the system. The sur- 
face, too, which it presents to the food, when we consider its folds 
and papillae, must be very great. 

"The villi of the intestines are known to perform absorption with 
great energy, and that of a substance which does not appear to be 
altogether fluid. The villi of the stomach are certainly more 
numerous than those of the intestines and, a priori, we might 
fairly presume, from their anatomical structure, that they per- 
formed the same function with greater energy." 

Smith's Essay on Digestion was written in an early period of 
the author's career. He lived to win distinction in a different 
field — that of applied surgery. The document just reviewed has 
little interest in a purely biographical way ; this product of the 
author's younger years is presented merely to throw a sidelight on 
the history of physiological studies in America prior to Beau- 
mont's remarkable contributions. 



IN DEFENCE OF SAMPLERS. 

Mrs. Jennie L. K. Haner, 

University of Idaho. 

It is not my intention to create a discussion, through the 
columns of this magazine upon the question of "samplers or no 
samplers" for Domestic Art courses, but rather to submit, by way 
of comparison with the experience of others, my opinion, which 
is the outcome of careful consideration and twelve years of 
practical application in Domestic Art classes. 

I am in sympathy with the idea that something practical and 
useftd would be a wiser outcome of the time spent, if it only 
could be so. I would favor a plan by which a new pupil in 
music would be put right on to parts of a finished composition so 
that when he had all these once gone through with, he would 
have something with which to regale his friends instead of finger 
and primary exercises, if this plan were feasible. Instead of the 
first little scrap and sample exercises in the cooking class, how 
much better if the things cooked could be in sufficiently 
large quantities to make them practical and useful in a club or 
boarding-house where others as well as the cooks themselves 
could test their values! But this cannot be. 

It is quite true that one loves to do the things one knows how to 
do, thus the first pre-requisite is to learn how to do them. An 
article or garment, like the rendering of a musical composi- 
tion, or the preparing of a dinner for guests, is first an ideal in the 
mind of the girl, and to have that ideal crushed by failing 
in her endeavor to execute it before she had learned per- 
haps the first rudiments of this valuable "know how" is 
hazardous and too apt to deaden the interest and en- 
thusiasm which are the secrets of her later success. To see, 
as quickly as possible, the finished piece according to the ideal or 
pattern, is the aim uppermost in her American mind, and to be 
hindered by the "know how" with its perhaps repeated heart- 
breaking attempts is almost more than she can bear. She 
would truly rather throw her piece of work into the fire than sub- 
mit it for criticism, and with it too often the main feature of 
her effort, the desired mark for her grade. 

Far more generally I have foimd the following to be the truth. A 
girl who has had no systematic instruction hardly hopes to see a 

354 



1909] In Defence of Samplers 355 

practical piece grow out from her inexperienced manipulations 
with needle and thread, and thimble and scissors. But if she has 
but the simple ' 'learning how' ' in her mind she will apply herself to 
little useless scrap with all the determination, persistence and 
perseverance, painstaking accuracy, and patience which it is in 
her nature to summon, and generally, all these go to make up an 
interest which results in encouragement, pride, knowledge, 
conscious power, and a good degree of satisfaction besides the 
portfolio of items for future reference in case she should forget. 
Then too, the estimate put upon this little encyclopedia with 
all these evidences of true educational drill and development 
in judgment, neatness, orderly arrangement, carefulness, exact- 
ness, ability to see and execute, showing forth from her finished 
product, will warrant the mark which will help greatly to build 
up a higher and stronger ideal, and a greater determination 
through this conscious power which, later applied to advanced 
work, results in practical value of some degree of true worth. 

In Home Economics, as in all subjects in a school and college 
curriculum we must aim first at its importance as a 
school subject, its educational value; its power to unroll or un- 
fold from within the nature of the girl the inherent powers which 
she may bring with her, then, with these developed, trust her to 
put them to their utilitarian applications to the betterment of 
herself, her home, her community and her nation. 



FOOD HABITS AND CUSTOMS OF CENTRAL AFRICAN 

NATIVES. 

H. L. Knight. 
Since early times the Mountains of the Moon in the heart of 
Equatorial Africa have been one of the great mysteries of 
Geography. Ptolmey's description of the mountain range was 
after a time regarded as a fable and it is only within recent years 
that geographers have become convinced of the actual existence 
of snowcapped mountains in this region. Stanley saw the white 
topped peaks in the distance but was never able to explore the 
region much as he wished to do so. A number of travelers have 
penetrated portions of the range but the mystery was not solved 
until the remarkable exploration of the region by the Duke of the 
Abruzzi. 

He has given the name "Ruwenzori," a native word meaning 
mountains of the moon, to this mountain chain. The recently 
published volume, "descriptive of the expedition, is a delightful 
account of exploration and adventure in one of the strangest 
regions of the world. The expedition landed at Mombasa, and 
after a journey by rail some 600 miles across British East Africa, 
a region which only a few years ago was an almost impassible 
wilderness, took steamer at Kisumu, or Port Florence, on Lake 
Victoria for Entebbe. Roughly speaking, the steamer route 
follows the Equator about 200 miles, keeping to the south of the 
islands in the upper end of the lake, much of the time being out of 
sight of land. 

"The sleeping sickness has turned into vast graveyards the 
greater number of the beautiful and fertile islands of the archi- 
pelago. After depopulating whole districts of the Congo, it ap- 
peared in Uganda between 1900 and 1902 and has spread further 
and further, following the main routes of communication, 
invading step by step the territories of the Baganda, Basoga and 
Kavirondo, and making gigantic inroads even to the point of 
40,000 victims in one year. The sleeping sickness is especially 
fatal to men in the prime of life, and hence whole villages and 
islands may be found tenanted by women and children who alone 
have survived." 



aRuwenzori. An Account of the Expedition of H. R. H. The Duke of the Abruzzi, by 
Filippi de Filippi, London, 1909. 



1909] Food Habits and Customs of Central African Natives 357 

At Entebbe began the journey through tropical forests to the 
Mountains of the Moon. As a result of the expedition the extent 
of the range, the direction of the valleys, the streams flowing 
from them, the height of the principal peaks, and other im- 
portant features are known, and a great deal of valuable informa- 
tion has been accumulated regarding plants and animals of the 
region and other important topics. 

The range lies just north of the Equator, between Lakes 
Albert Edward and Albert, which are fed from its melting 
snows and are important sources of the Nile. The plant life of 
this mountain range is very varied, ranging from the tropical 
vegetation of the low slopes and valleys to the few Alpine plants 
found just below the line of perpetual snow. Many of the trees 
and plants are unfamiliar. 

"The whole valley on every side as far as you could see was one 
mass of luxuriant vegetation of indescribable strangeness. The 
ground was carpeted with a deep layer of lycopodium and 
springy moss, and thickly dotted with big clumps of the papery 
flowers, pink, yellow, and silver white of the helichrysum or 
everlasting, above which rose the tall columnar stalks of the 
lobelia, like funeral torches, beside huge branching groups of the 
monster senecio." 

Without doubt each person reads with special pleasure in such a 
book as this the passages which contribute to the subject in which 
he himself is most interested, and those who are studying nutri- 
tion problems will find many statements regarding the camp 
equipment, the ways in which the food problems of the expedition 
were solved, and much information regarding agriculture, food 
supply, and customs of the native tribes with whom the expedi- 
tion came in contact. 

While the stores of the expedition were being carried on board 
the steamer at Port Florence there was time for a visit to the 
native market of Kisumu. "Here the natives assemble in great 
numbers from the neighboring villages, mere groups of huts 
surrounded by a hedge. . . The crowds of men and women 
come across the level country, carrying on their heads baskets 
woven with great art out of grasses. 

"The market is held in the open air or under sheds erected on 
purpose. It consists mainly of small traffic in dried fish, sweet 
potatoes, grain and bananas. The buyers stand in groups around 



358 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

the sellers, who crouch or sit on the ground beside the baskets of 
every conceivable shape which contain their wares. Men and 
women smoke the short straight pipes of the country. Others 
circulate hither and thither with that buoyant and elastic tread, 
like the gait of a wild animal, which comes from the habit of 
moving without the impediment of clothes." 

The camp outfit was carried by native porters from Entebbe to 
the mountain range where the work of exploration began. "The 
whole camp outfit, including tents, beds, sleeping bags, stools, 
tables, baths, cooking utensils, the hermetically sealed cases 
containing clothing; the photographic materials, and the 
materials for the zoological, botanical and mineralogical collec- 
tions; the arms and ammunition, formed 114 loads weighing 
about 47 lbs. each, all numbered and so marked as to be im- 
mediately recognizable. 

"The commissariat formed 80 additional loads of the same 
weight, each one of which contained rations for 12 persons during 
one day. The supplies had been laid in on a calculation of a 
sojourn of 40 days above the snow-limit, and of a period of the 
same length below, to allow for the journey from Entebbe to the 
mountains and back. The rations were in tin boxes, soldered, and 
enclosed in thin wooden boards. The only difference between the 
high-mountain rations and those for the lower regions was that 
the latter were without tinned meat, because it would be easy to 
find fresh meat supplies throughout the inhabitated regions. 

"According to calculation 194 porters were needed to carry 
the entire equipment. In addition to these there were the 
caravan leaders, the personal servants, or 'boys,' with their own 
porters, the natives who were needed to take care of the horses 
and mules, and who were to drive the oxen, goats and sheep 
which were provided for the sustenance of the caravan, and other 
natives, with sundry minor attributions. The total mounted up 
to above 300 persons." 

In the journey through the tropical forests the route follows a 
native path or road. "The contrast with the open tracts enhances 
the charm of the forests. After crossing a slope scorched by the 
sun, the traveller enters into the profound shade heavy with the 
perfumes of acacia, mimosa, jasmine, and honeysuckle. 

"The district is fairly populous, but the inhabitants are so 
hidden away among their banana groves and impenetrable grasses 



1909] Food Habits and Customs of Central African Natives 359 

that it is possible to pass quite close to villages without noticing 
them. They consist of clusters of huts usually situated half-way 
up a hill, surrounded by tufts of bananas, little cultivated fields 
and a few forest trees. The huts are of the usual conical type. 
The circular roof thatched with grass straw is artfully constructed 
to reach down to the ground on every side except over the 
entrance, where it is cut short and projects into a low narrow 
porch. The interior is encumbered by the numerous pillars and 
posts which support this heavy roof. Some of the huts are sur- 
rounded by an enclosure, or even by several enclosures, so that 
three or four courts must be crossed to reach the house. 

"The land around the huts is cultivated for a short distance 
only. As is usual in tropical countries, the indolence of the 
population limits the production of the soil to the amount which 
is strictly necessary to sustain life. There is no trace of co- 
operation. Each family owns its hut and its field, which it 
cultivates for its own exclusive use. Agricultural labor is per- 
formed entirely by women. They cultivate plantain, egg-fruit, 
potatoes, sweet potatoes, beans, maize, dura, cotton, sesame and 
sugar-cane. A delicious fruit, always cool and refreshing, is the 
pawpaw. 

"The banana, or plantain, is the staple of diet. There are 
several varieties. Besides the sweet banana, which is eaten ripe 
and raw, there is a plantain which is gathered unripe and eaten 
cooked. From the flesh of another variety a sort of bread is 
made. The juice is pressed out and forms a refreshing, cool 
drink called Mbisi. This becomes alcoholic and intoxicating if 
allowed to ferment, and is then called Mwenge. Finally the 
leaves and stalks are used for various purposes. The origin of 
the cultivated banana is uncertain. Botanically it is quite 
diflferent from the wild native banana, and it is doubtful whether 
it could have been derived from it." 

On this journey the camp sites were selected in advance. 

"The encampments were always situated at a certain distance 
from the villages, in places selected beforehand and prepared for 
the purpose. There was usually a hut where meals were pro- 
vided for the Europeans, and one or two sheds to shelter the 
equipment from the weather. Around the sheds stood the 
European tents. . . The tents were surrounded by a zeriba or 
enclosure of plaited cane which served less as a defence than as a 



t6o The Journal of Home Economics [October 

means of dividing the European camp from that of the native 
porters. 

"The native porters would arrive at their destination at a run, 
singing and shouting, throw down their loads hastily on the spot 
fixed for the purpose, and immediately set to work to build huts 
for their own shelter. The huts would spring up all around with 
the most marvellous rapidity. The method of construction is 
most ingenious. A number of slight rods or flexible canes are 
stuck into the earth in a circle. Their upper ends are bent so as 
to meet in the middle and interwoven so as to form a dome. Up- 
on this are placed bundles of grass disposed in such a manner as to 
leave a narrow opening for the entrance. Thus in less than a 
quarter of an hour a vast grassy plain is transformed into a con- 
siderable village. While the work proceeds, there arrive from the 
neighboring villages long files of women and old men carrying on 
their heads parcels of fruit and sweet potatoes wrapped in 
plantain leaves. Swarms of naked children accompany them. 
The tiny ones are carried on their mothers' backs in a fold of 
their garment. In this way the caravan lives entirely on food 
supplied by the population of the regions crossed." 

"The most remarkable and changeful spectacle was presented 
by the swarming native camp, with its deafening racket and 
perpetual excitement, dominated by the incessant rolling of 
drums and the inharmonious strains of uncouth musical instru- 
ments, the loud cackling of poultry, the bleating of flocks and 
lowing of cattle." 

"As evening closes in, the camp is lit up by hundreds of fires, 
around which the porters sit until far on in the night, roasting the 
sweet potatoes, or boiling the plantains which, with the addition 
occasionally of a little dried fish, form their sole diet. 

"After a march of five or six hours over heavy ground, carrying 
substantial loads on their heads, this frugal meal was amply 
sufficient to their simple needs. Banana wine is a rare luxury, 
while water is scarce and filthy, with a disgusting smell and taste 
even when boiled." |- " 

At almost every camp some native chief would pay a visit to 
the Duke, "surrounded by retainers bearing the umbrella and 
stool, the insignia of power, and followed by a train of ministers 
and a bodyguard armed with lances and staves. 



1909] Food Habits and Customs of Central African Natives 361 

"The rear was usually brought up by a crowd of natives driving 
goats and sheep, or even calves and bulls, and bearing baskets 
full of fowls, eggs and bananas, to be presented as gifts to the 
strangers." 

"The Duke, or some member of the expedition chosen to 
represent him, would next return the chieftain's visit and present 
a gift, usually quite moderate in proportion to the value received. 
The dwellings of the chiefs are circular huts, with walls of plaited 
reeds and the usual native roof. The interior is divided by 
curtains into various rooms. The walls are adorned with illustra- 
tions from European periodicals. The floors are covered with 
mats and skins. There is usually a fair supply of chairs and 
cushions. The whole is clean and orderly. The hut is sur- 
rounded by several zeribas. In the courts between the zeribas 
are huts for women, slaves, soldiers, etc." 

In this part of the journey more or less game was obtainable. 

"Now and again a shooting party would set forth. Guinea- 
fowls and doves abound in the plantations around the camps. 
The region is rich in elephants, zebras, antelopes, lions and 
leopards. This sort of game, however, requires special beating, 
and is not compatible with the rapid marches of a caravan bent 
upon a totally different aim. It was only very seldom and at a 
great distance that an occasional antelope was seen fleeing from 
the approach of the party." 

When the mountain climbing and other severe work of the 
expedition began it was necessary to replace the Baganda porters 
with natives who were better able to endure the hardships. 

"The Baganda are a people of the plains, and evidently in- 
capable of enduring the fatigue of mountain marches. It had 
now become obviously necessary to replace them by Bakonjo, 
who are acclimatized to this valley and accustomed to climb its 
slopes in the chase after marmots and hyraz." 

The Bakonjos are "tall men of robust habit, with somewhat 
prominent jaw. Their hair is either shaven or disposed in strange 
fashion, and they frequently wear a small beard. Their skin is 
tanned by the sun, the rain, and the cold, and is hard and rough 
as leather. They wear a piece of cloth hanging from their 
loins, bracelets of metal or cord around their arms and legs, and 
a fur pouch suspended from the neck for pipe and tobacco. 
Some wear a leopard skin over their shoulders, or a cloak made of 



362 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

rabbit pelts (hyrax) stitched together. . . They carry long 
staves on their march and use them with great skill in the difficult 
places." 

"The moment a halt was called during a march, in less than no 
time the natives would have kindled a fire and be enjoying a fine 
blaze and smoking their pipes, and it was not always easy to 
induce them to start again promptly. They were once found on 
the road, shivering in the rain and stark naked, having taken off 
their vests and blankets so as to enjoy to the full the heat of the 
glowing coals. They ate eagerly whatever food was supplied to 
them, but they did not like the novelty. They made wry faces 
before making up their minds to swallow tea, and far preferred 
their mess of dura flour, which to us seems nauseating, to the 
white wheat flour, even when prepared with butter. 

"In spite of these trying conditions of life, the Bakonjo showed 
admirable patience and docility. It was very rare, indeed, for 
even a single porter to refuse to go on with his load, although they 
nearly always got their feet swollen and hurt by the stones." 

One of the principal camps was made of necessity in a valley 
where the ground was covered with boulders and dense vegetation 
and the almost constant rain and cold added to the general 
discomfort. 

"Poor Igini, the cook, had the hardest life of all. He was the 
only one whose activity was confined within the ring of deep 
mud which turned the camp into a close prison. Squatting be- 
tween four boulders, hedged about by the cases of rations, the 
kitchen implements, the fire, and the tent, he had far less chance 
of exercise than during the polar winter which he had spent in 
Teplitz Bay, [during the Duke's expedition to Mt. St. Elias, in 
Alaska], where he was forced to go half a mile to fetch the meat 
of some bear hung up by the ship, or had to work to disinter the 
cases of rations, or help to run after the dogs." 

After the work of the expedition was accomplished the return 
journey was made over practically the same route as that fol- 
lowed to the Mountains of the Moon. No one can read the 
admirable account of this expedition, written at the Duke's 
request by Filippo de Filippi, without realizing that the Duke of 
the Abruzzi has not only planned and successfully carried out a 
remarkable journey of exploration but has made a very sub- 
stantial and important contribution to geography and to many 
other fields of knowledge. 



THE DAILY MEAL^ OF SCHOOL CHILDREN.'^ 

A Digest by Miss E. W. Cross. 

In this bulletin the author emphasizes the necessity for the 
adequate nourishment of school children and suggests plans for 
accomplishing this which may be used as a basis for discussion. 

"It is costly to educate a child," she points out, "and the cost 
may become waste if educational advantages are offered to those 
who are dull because of improper feeding, or who are underfed 
and ill-nourished." The energy for bodily growth, for pla> and 
for clearness of the brain to study is produced from food and the 
problem is not only to ascertain the right amount but also to 
preserve "the relative proportion of the various so-called food 
principles." 

School authorities have experimented with serving lunch in 
the school to the many underfed children, administering not only 
to the bodily needs, but developing the cultural side as well. 
The child is only a part of a larger problem since for every under- 
fed school child there is probably one at least too young to be in 
school and many suffering adults. "The question of feeding 
school children in general may, however, properly be regarded as 
an educational one, if it can be shown that the ordinary educa- 
tion of the schools can be made of greater value to the pupils if 
food is served by the school authorities, or if it can be shown 
that there are certain facts about food and certain habits of eat- 
ing which should be given as part of public education, and 
which can be given to young children best by the laboratory 
method, i. e., by actually serving food in the school." 

The educators in public schools are not able, as a rule, to 
carry out ideals because of lack of funds and we find our best 
models in the practice schools connected with well-endovv^ed col- 
leges and in many private schools. Reports are given from 
schools "which are striving to be models." The Speyer School, 
New York City, supplies every child from the kindergarten to the 
third grade with a cup of milk and a graham cracker at half past 
ten. The child pays for the food if he is able, but if unable he is 
fed with the others. In the Hebrew Technical School for Girls 
in New York City every girl is given a cup of milk or cocoa in the 



oBy Caroline L. Hunt, U. S. Bur. of Education Bulletin, 1909, No. 3. 



364 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

middle of the morning. At noon soup is sold by the school for 
one cent a bowl. It is reported from both schools that there is a 
marked improvement in physical condition and orderly ways. 
Perfect sanitary conditions and careful attention to physical 
training have aided in this development. 

Those in charge of backv\'ard children have always adopted the 
plan of feeding the children in the school. Miss Farrell, now in 
charge of the ungraded schools of New York city, reports an 
interesting experiment made by her when she was a teacher. 
"Of the class of twelve boys who sat down to the first school 
lunch only one had sat at table with his family. If the habit of 
sitting down to a table decently and in order is as valuable as we 
are inclined to consider it, it would seem as if every child ought 
to have a chance to taste of its advantages and to decide for 
himself whether it is a custom he wishes to continue in later life 
or not." 

Suflficient money must be put into the experiment of the 
school lunch to make it educational, otherwise "the entire work 
would seem to fall more properly to charitable organizations or 
poor relief boards." "It was the recognition of the dangers lurk- 
ing in the food sold to school children and also the realization of 
the vast educational opportunities that were being thrown away, 
that led Mrs. Ellen H. Richards in 1894 to bring her very valuable 
work of serving simple luncheons to the students of the high 
schools of Boston." 

In establishing school lunches the school authorities cooperate 
with organizations for improving social conditions, as in the 
Lake View High School of Chicago, the associated club being the 
Ravens wood Woman's Club. The school lunch seems specially 
adapted to the rural schools. Mrs. Richards'* has made many 
valuable suggestions for such an undertaking. 

The dishes prepared by pupils in Domestic Science are utilized 
for lunch in the Trade School for Girls, Boston; the Normal 
School, Honolulu; Hebrew Technical School for Girls, New York 
City; and the High School of Practical Arts, Boston. Serving 
the lunch in the school affords an opportunity to make it a 
means of education in house-furnishing and gives an opportunity 
to impress lessons of hygiene. It is desirable to have the con- 



aGood Luncheons for Rural Schools without a Kitchen, by Ellen H. Richards Boston, 



Whitcomb & Barrows, 1908 



1909] The Daily Meals of School Children 365 

struction of the room, its decoration, and its furnishing of such a 
character that they may serve as models. The lunch room at 
Lewis Institute, Chicago which occupies a Hght, airy room on the 
fifth floor, has served as a model for many high-school lunch 
rooms. By example it has probably influenced the location of 
other school lunch rooms, "for the practice of putting lunch 
rooms into unattractive basements, so common elsewhere, has 
never gained a foothold in that city." While they have the 
check system those who serve food do not handle money. The 
democratic policy prevails, — teachers, students and employees 
eating in the same room and generally waiting on themselves. 

In the Ethical Culture School, New York City a hot lunch is 
served every day. The students are divided into two groups, ail 
of each group sitting down at one time. The Friends' School, 
Washington, D. C, arranges for students to pay for lunches by 
the year, or they are allowed to buy single lunches or certain 
articles of food. Rochester, (N. Y.) high schools cooperate 
closely with the board of health. Milk from tuberculin-tested 
cows only is sold and other foods are most carefully watched. 

The most common method of serving in high schools is from a 
counter. The trays should be on the counter near the door and 
sandwiches next on the counter. It is convenient to have 
glasses, silver and napkins placed at some distance from the end 
of the counter. 

The bills of fare in high schools where ideals prevail do not 
differ greatly in content or price. In the Lake View High School, 
Chicago, the equipment is paid for by the board of education, and 
running expenses are met by the sales of food. They are able to 
sell the following for five cents each : Soup, meat pie, vegetables, 
salads (except potato), light desserts (including ice cream), tea 
and coffee. In the Ethical Culture School, New York City, the 
lunches are ordered a week ahead of the time of serving, therefore 
there is but little risk of having food left over. The service is 
better and the prices are correspondingly higher. In the Horace 
Mann School where 600 pupils are served daily, the cost of equip- 
ment (including chairs, tables, counter and the table furnishings) 
was about $2,500. 

"Those who have charge of the selection of food for children at 
home or in the school should have some knowledge of the proper 
proportions of the different kinds of food needed to maintain a 



366 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

child of school age in proper physical and mental condition." It 
is explained that dietaries are usually expressed in terms of pro- 
tein, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter and fuel value. The 
fuel value is given in terms of the calorie, and the gram is taken 
as a unit of weight. The statement of Dr. C. F. Langworthy*^ that 
the average adult in the United States is daily supplied with 
about 100 gms. of protein, 150 gms. of fats, and 350 gms. of 
carbohydrates, with a total fuel value of 3 , 2 40 calories is quoted 
together with his estimate that children of from 2 to 5 years of 
age eat about four-tenths of this amount, those between 6 and 9 
eat five-tenths of it, and those between 10 and 12 years of age 
take from six-tenths to nine-tenths. On this basis, a child from 
6 to 9 years of age would require 50 gms. protein, 75 gms. of fat, 
and 175 gms. of carbohydrates. This would represent a day's 
menu such as the following: 

Breakfast: Orange of medium size, cooked oatmeal, yi cup; 
milk and cream mixed, }4 cup; toast, i slice; butter, >^ cubic 
inch ; milk to drink, i glass. 

Dinfier: Whitefish, 3 oz. as purchased or i^ oz. edible por- 
tion; potato, I small; celery cooked in milk, ^ cup; bread, i 
slice; butter for bread and potato, i cubic inch; rice pudding, 
Kcup. 

Supper: Egg; toast, i slice; butter, X cubic inch; milk i 
glass; prunes 3, cooked with J^ level tablespoon of sugar; 
cookies. 

The weight and composition of the various articles of food in 
this bill of fare are given in the table on the following page: 

Mrs. Richards^ gives a list of foods which might constitute the 
daily diet of a child from 6 to 9 years. These foods supply 56 gms. 
of protein, 47 of fat, and 207 of carbohydrates. If the fuel is taken 
from the starch and sugar and less from fat we would have the 
same figures. Fats for the child's diet should be secured "from 
milk and eggs and from the butter and cream used at the table." 
If "made dishes" are used not only is too much fat introduced 
into the diet but it is in a most indigestible form. 

An unlimited amount of properly cooked cereal and bread is 
allowed "except when it takes sugar to make them acceptable 



aFood and Diet in the United States by C. F. Langworthy. Reprint from the Year- 
book of U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, 1907, pp. 361-78. 

fcFirst Lessons in Food and Diet, by Ellen H. Richards. Boston, Whitcomb & Barrows, 
1904. 



1909] 



The Daily Meals of School Children 



367 



Weight and composition of the foods given in the foregoing 

hill of fare. 





Weight. 


Components. 




Articles of food. 


Protein. 


Fats. 


Carbohy- 
drates. 


Mineral 
maiter. 


Fuel 
value. 


Milk 


Ounces. 

18K 

iK 

3^ 

2 

4 

2 

iK 
2 

4 
iK 


Grams. 

17 

I 

9 
9 

7 
5 
2 

I 

I 

I 

Trace 


Grams. 

20 

7 

2 

Trace 

5 
5 
I 
2 
Trace 

Trace 


Grams. 
25 

I 

52 

24 

10 
II 
II 

21 
2 

7 
10 


Grams. 


Calories. 
376 


Cream 


3 " 

I 


•/ 
.2 
6 

I 
5 
9 
3 
I 
6 
7 
5 


Fish 


71 

61 

266 


Bread 


Eggs 


Rice Pudding 


79 
165 
58 
68 
48 


Rolled oats 


Cookies 


Potatoes 


Prunes 


Celery 


90 


Sugar 


29 

43 

282 


Oranges 


Trace 
Trace 


Trace 
30 




4 


Butter 




• ^ 


Total 


44 


53 


72 


174 


9-7 


1,647 



. . . Limit sugar to small amounts in desserts or in the form 
of candy. Fruits, preferably cooked, and vegetables should 
form a part of the daily diet." 

The child up to the age of nine gets the protein "he needs from 
4 glasses of milk, one egg, and the bread and cereal he takes. 
There seems little reason to add meat to his dietary." 

A comparison is made between cost of food and wages and the 
deduction "may indicate why so large a percentage in our schools 
appear undernourished." 

What is stated to be probably the most thorough and valuable 
investigation of under-feeding that has been made in this country 
is that which was carried on in Chicago during the summer and 
early autumn of 1908 by W. L. Bodine, Superintendent of 
Compulsory Education, and Dr. D. P. MacMillan of the Depart- 
ment of Child Study and Pedagogic Investigation. "It was 
estimated that in addition to the 5,000 really necessitous children, 
there were at least 10,000 so poorly nourished as to be unable to do 
their school work well." In Chicago the use of any part of the 
school funds for the purpose of feeding indigent children, how- 
ever, has been declared illegal. A similar situation in England 
was met in December, igo6, by an Act of Parliament permitting 
local school authorities to use funds for this purpose. 



368 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

"It seems to be universally conceded that Paris has the best 
system of feeding the school children that has been worked out 
by any municipality." Since canteens are attached to the public 
schools situated in all districts "they maybe said to be retained as 
an educational policy rather than as a relief measure." This 
makes them of "more interest to educators than the examples 
. . . of schools where food is furnished chiefly to the 
needy." Certain cities of Germany, Austria, Denmark, Holland, 
Norway and Sweden, Spain, Switzerland and Italy furnish free 
meals to school children. The expense is either met by charitable 
organizations or the municipality and, in some instances, by both. 

From this examination of conditions and suggested remedies it 
seems obvious that there are two problems before us, alike in 
many respects but differing in others. One of these, the problem 
of the underfed child, is a problem chiefly of poverty; the other, 
that of the feeding of school children, is a problem chiefly of 
education. 



MALNUTRITION IN SCHOOL CHILDREN IN 
NEW YORK CITY.'' 

In a paper read at the Sixtieth Annual Session of the American 
Medical Association at Atlantic City, June 1909, Dr. E. Mather 
Sill of New York City reports the results of an extended study of 
malnutrition and its treatment carried on in the congested lower 
East Side of New York. The work was undertaken with a view 
to ascertaining as far as possible the etiological factors, which to 
a large extent are the cause of undernutrition of city children, 
especially of the school age which he considers to be very prev- 
alent. 

"The subjects were all taken from the laboring and tenement- 
house classes and the parents were mostly foreigners. Each 
little patient, after having a careful physical examination, was 
weighed, a full history obtained from the mother through a trained 
nurse who spoke her language, and anything such as tuberculosis, 
syphilis or other diseases that would have a bearing on the condi- 
tion of the child carefully noted. Then the following questions 
were asked the mother: 'What does the child get for breakfast, 
for dinner, for supper? How many rooms have you? How 
many in the family, including boarders? Do you keep your 
windows open at night to allow the circulation of fresh air, and air 
the house in the day-time? When does the child go to bed? 
Does the child eat between meals — candy, etc. ? How often does 
the child get a tub bath ? Is the child in a grade with children of 
its own age at school' ?" 

The answers to these questions were tabulated and the examina- 
tion in Dr. Sill's clinic of the 210 malnutrition cases showed that 83 
per cent of these children depended practically on bread with tea 
or coffee for their diet. Only 10 reported an egg for breakfast. 
A fairly large proportion (116) reported meat-soup and potatoes 
for dinner, and 136 reported meat-soup for supper, but as pre- 
viously stated, bread was the principal food of the majority when 
all three meals are considered. 

Spargo, as Dr. Sill points out, records that of 12,800 schools 
children in New York, 2,950, or more than 23 percent, attended 
the public school breakfastless or provided with miserably poor 



ajoumal American Medical Association, 52. {1909). June 19, pp. 1981-1985. 



370 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

breakfasts. Dr. H. M. Lechstrecker, according to Dr. Sill, 
examined 10,707 children in industrial schools of New York. 
"Of these, 998 had coffee or coffee and bread only for breakfast; 
439 or 4.10 per cent no breakfast; 998 or 9.32 per cent were 
anemic, owing to lack of nourishment. Only 1,955 or i7-32 per 
cent, started the day with an adequate meal." 

These figures, it is evident, indicate the same condition of 
affairs which was found in Dr. Sill's studies. 

In the 210 families examined in Dr. Sill's investigation the 
average number of rooms per family was three, and the average 
size of the family six, which is estimated to provide an average 
allowance of 600 cubic feet of air space per person. 

"Sixty-two per cent kept their windows closed. Fifty per 
cent of the children ate between meals — candy, etc.; 12 per 
cent were in a grade at school with younger children. Of these 
children, 2 1 per cent went to bed at 8 o'clock, 40 per cent went to 
bed at 9, 24 per cent went to bed at 10, and 12 per cent went to 
bed at II. These children were all under ten years of age and 
should have been in bed at 7 o'clock." 

Bathing was infrequent, for the baths ranged from once a year 
with four per cent to a weekly bath with only 18.5 per cent. 

"We found that all these malnutrition patients were decidedly 
under weight for their age compared with the weight of normal 
children, the discrepancy varying from 4 to 16 pounds. Many 
children were found to be of the same weight as normal children 
who were from one to three years younger and in extreme cases 
there was even a difference of four years, and the cases were not 
picked but all malnutrition cases just as they came. 

"The ages of these children were from three to ten years but 
the great majority (175) were from six to ten years (or the school 
age). One thousand other children in the primary schools, in the 
Jewish quarter on the East Side were examined by me. Of 
these 40 per cent were found to be poorly nourished, under 
weight and more or less anemic. These were, therefore, mal- 
nutrition cases. These children were from six to twelve years of 
age. Eighty-six per cent had dental caries, 90 per cent had 
adenoids, 40 per cent had hypertrophied tonsils, 6.5 per cent had 
defective hearing, 10 per cent had defective vision, 4.5 per cent 
had tuberculous lymph nodes of the neck, i per cent had pul- 
monary disease, 0.4 per cent had cardiac disease, 0.8 per cent had 
chorea. . . ." 



1909] Malnutrition in School Children in New York City 371 

Seventy-five per cent of the 210 patients examined showed 
enlarged cervical glands. While only 100 of the chldren were 
tested for tuberculosis a positive reaction was found with 55 per 
cent. 

"Practically all these children had defects and complications 
other than the malnutrition, the variety and percentage of which 
was very much the same as those found in the children examined 
in the schools. 

"It was observed that many of these children were in such a 
condition that they had no desire for good nourishing food and, 
indeed, could not retain it, because their stomachs had become so 
accustomed to the tea and bread or coffee and bread diet. The 
mother would say when told what food the child required, 'But, 
doctor, she will not take it.' Von Noorden accounts for this 
condition by stating that the activity of the digestive organs 
during starvation is lowered and the secretion of saliva, gastric 
juice, bile, and intestinal secretions diminish. In many of these 
cases the stomach had to be gradually educated to a stronger diet 
and the children were treated just as one would treat convales- 
cents from disease." 

Many who have studied such problems were not able to test the 
value of improved diet and other hygienic measures in the 
treatment of malnutrition cases as was Dr. Sill, and his report is 
therefore of special interest. 

"In the treatment of this condition the first duty should be to 
instruct the mothers in the schools and clinics, either by word of 
mouth or printed directions, as to what foods are best for the 
growing child, which are the most nutritious and healthful for 
the money, the best way to cook different foods, what articles of 
diet to avoid, and the necessity of plenty of fresh air and sun- 
light, and cleanliness. Warm clothing is a necessity. 

"These children should be given a highly nutritious diet, that 
is, foods that contain a large amount of proteid material." 

Such proteid foods were selected as beef, eggs, chicken, fish, 
ham, bacon, dried beef, milk, flour, oatmeal, dried beans and peas. 
With respect to the food which he found most valuable in these 
cases Dr. Sill states that he placed the children on a diet "consist- 
ing of milk (a quart a day), cocoa, eggs, red meat (once a day), 
fowl, fish, bread and butter, and cereals, such as oatmeal (of 
which 94 per cent of the nitrogenous matter is proteid), farina, 



372 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

hominy, corn-meal, rice, pure olive-oil, and cream should also be 
given if possible, with vegetables, such as spinach, stewed 
tomatoes, stewed com, cauliflower, baked and creamed potatoes, 
purees of beans or peas, and baked beans, and fresh fruit, such as 
oranges, pears, apples, raw and baked, and in the form of apple 
sauce, and stewed prunes. The children were ordered to stop 
school, be out in the open air as much as possible, open the win- 
dows at night and air the room thoroughly by day, go to bed at 7 
or 8 o'clock and take a rest in bed for an hour or two after the 
mid-day meal. Bathing was encouraged for the purpose of 
cleanliness, and a salt-water bath followed by a vigorous rub 
for its stimulating and invigorating effect." 

"It is surprising how rapidly these children improved and 
gained weight with no other medication than a simple iron 
tonic. Some gained as much as a pound and a half a week. 

"A mixed diet, both in animals and in man, is usually taken 
better and the nutrients are more completely digested and 
assimilated than when only one food is used. Variety in foods of 
the same nutritive value stimulates the appetite and prevents 
the patient from tiring of any special food." 

"Vegetables should be given in abundance since the vegetable 
proteid carries with it a large amount of potassium salts, which 
are the predominating salts in muscles, neutralize acid products 
and forestall rheumatism. Wheat flour and wheat bread have a 
high nutritive value." 

The figures cited by Dr. Sill and by other investigators leave 
little doubt that undernutrition of school children is widespread, 
and that it is a serious condition whose causes should be sought 
and for which remedies should be provided. 

"Poverty," Dr. Sill concludes, "is an important factor in the 
causation of this chronic starvation or ill-nourished condition, 
but ignorance on the part of parents plays even a more important 
part — ignorance as to food-values, ignorance as to cooking, 
ignorance as to how to live, ignorance as to cleanliness, fresh air 
and sunlight. Although very few mothers had a proper idea of 
what foods were nourishing, or how to cook foods properly to 
make them nourishing, all were willing and glad to be instructed, 
and it seems to me that just here lies in a measure the partial 
solution of this problem. Since the mother who loves her child 
is by far the best instrument the state can employ to see that that 



1909] Malnutrition in School Children in New York City 373 

child is properly nourished, led and cared for, and in providing 
for its real education, the mothers are better than teachers, school 
managers, medical inspectors or attendance officers. It is 
economy to educate and improve the mothers and in that way 
guide the natural love to be an effective help in bringing up 
children to be healthy and useful citizens. 

"Visitation of the homes of underfed children and instruction 
of mothers would wonderfully reduce the number of these under- 
fed children. The employment of the mother is responsible for 
many neglected children; given a father out of work or sick, and 
the mother must take in sewing or go out to work, with too often 
the result of underfeeding of not only the children, but herself as 
well. 

"Is it fair to suppose that a hungry <:hild, wasted and weakened 
with the attendant conditions of lassitude, irritability, nervous- 
ness and anemia, the result of prolonged underfeeding and bad 
housing, can study in school for five hours with scarcely any 
intermission ? 

"Although great advancement in the science of education has 
been made in the past twenty-five years, the physical condition 
and development of the child has been grossly neglected. When 
the child has a poorly developed and weakened body, little can be 
expected from it in the way of mental development or advance- 
ment. The duty of the nation is, first of all, to care for the 
proper feeding and housing of its children and so to insure their 
proper growth, development and health. 

"No doubt the so-called stupidity or backwardness of many 
children in the public schools is simply the result of neglect and 
underfeeding. 

"Von Noorden, from experiments on man and animals has 
deduced the following law: 'The expenditure of energy during 
starvation diminishes in the same proportions as the weight of the 
body, apart from extreme degrees of emaciation or adiposity and 
with moderate bodily exercise by day and normal hours of sleep 
by night.' The operation of this law of Von Noorden, then, 
would account for the lassitude, nervousness and loss of energy 
seen in these children. 

"The growing child, requiring a highly nutritious diet, re- 
quires also a great deal of fresh air to oxygenate the food properly. 
This requisite is impossible, as we shall presently see, with the 



374 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

housing conditions as they are. The conditions of overcrowding in 
New York, (and in fact in all our great American cities) has be- 
come a most menacing one. . . 

"When actual figures show that six people on an average are 
crowded together in three small rooms, two of which are often 
inside rooms, the sum total of the air space in these rooms 
averaging about 3,600 cubic feet, (which is only half the air 
space that six people should have) is it any wonder that so many 
are in such pitiful condition of health and the contagious diseases 
and tuberculosis are so prevalent in this quarter?" 

As regards remedies Dr. Sill believes that the present condition 
of affairs in the congested districts of large cities in this country 
could be entirely changed and controlled by suitable laws. 

"This can never be accomplished by private charity but must 
be dealt with and provided for by the state and national legis- 
lature ; since laws governing these things are necessary for the 
public safety, health, and welfare." 

"A child is a valuable national asset and its welfare and 
healthy development is of great importance to the state, which 
should be legally under obligation to look after it. Children 
who are starved, through neghgence, ignorance, or poverty on the 
part of the parents should be fed as every child has a right to be 
fed ; there ought to be no such thing as a starving child in our 
land, especially in the public schools, where children are under 
the daily observations of their teachers. It should be the public 
duty to see that such children are provided with nourishing food. 
"In England, Scotland and France, nourishing meals are given 
many of the schools at a slight cost, and are paid for by tickets 
previously purchased by the parents. Many meals are given 
free. This has been done in a few schools in this country with 
success. No distinction is made between those who pay for these 
meals and those who are unable to do so. 

"Let us remember that the future as well as the present is our 
concern in considering this great problem. Shall we civilized 
people allow our poor to be fed and housed worse than our 
domestic animals? If these horrible conditions are allowed to 
continue and rob the masses of their vitality, what can we expect 
the next generation to be? There can be but one answer, one 
outcome. Look to London's Stepney for the answer." 



ANOTHER VIEW OF THE SUNSHINE LAUNDRY. 

Hester Ridlox. 
Simmons College, Boston. 

"Trifles make perfection" — is a saying nowhere better 
shown than in the work of cleaning — especially that process 
called "laundering." It is by the high ideals upheld and the 
scientific standard of the work, that the Sunsnine Laundry 
has held the attention of the laity and of the world of Home 
Economics. 

We are always prone to feel either that women are not taking 
their full share in the world's work or that they are rash in 
undertaking a "so-new" field. Yet statistics show an increase of 
nearly threefold in the last fifteen to twenty years in the number 
of different occupations in which women are engaged. And here 
we must realize that the Sunshine Laundry stands as a pioneer. 
Started ten years ago by the Misses Mary A. and Grace G. White, 
it has prospered under their guidance and proprietorship, and 
shows today on its books forty per cent of the names written 
there in the first week of its business. 

The Sunshine Laundry is situated just outside of Boston, Mass., 
in Brookline Village on the edge of the Parkway. It is a two- 
story frame building with a great many windows and skylights, 
painted a creamy yellow, and seems to radiate sunshine and 
cleanliness. As one enters, on the immediate left are the offices, 
glassed off from the rest of the floor. An atmosphere of quiet 
activity, orderliness, and immaculate cleanliness is evident every- 
where. On the second floor this is even more marked, for the 
many women workers are an unusually cheerful and pleasant 
group, as they naturally would be in a place so well lighted and 
ventilated. 

In following the stages through which articles pass in the proc- 
ess of laundering we will begin in the far northwest comer of the 
second floor; the whole floor being partitioned into three 
general rooms or divisions. All incoming goods are received 
from a lift, and are "marked in." Except in the case of the 
shirts, collars and cuffs, all these articles are marked, not on the 
piece itself, but on a bit of tape, which is then sewed to the 
article. Next, an expert woman examines each piece and 
decides whether it needs mending, the removal of stains or 



375 



376 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

other special care, — and thus directs its further course in the 
wash room. A competent seamstress is constantly employed by 
the laundry to mend those pieces that will be definitely saved by a 
few stitches — such as large rents, buttons, etc., — or those things 
which the customer asks to have mended and pays for. 

As a rule each load brought in by a driver makes a "lot," and 
each lot is kept separate from other lots in a general way through- 
out the whole laundering process. The lot, being marked, goes 
to the wash room. Here all colored things that need special care, 
and all fine and elaborate articles are washed by hand. The 
other plainer things are done in the steam washers. It is, there- 
fore, possible to wash successfully a large percentage of the things 
by steam and probably with less wear than if they were done by 
hand. Other reasons why machines are used in washing are 
because a better color can be obtained, and because hand washing 
increases the cost to the consumer. Next the clothes must be 
wrung, and this is done in machines of a centrifugal nature, run 
by steam. Inasmuch as wet tissue paper was not torn when 
tried in one of these running at high speed, little need be said 
about the safety and advisability of steam v/ringers for the 
clothes, — and by this means that degree of dampness is retained 
which is best for the perfect ironing of that article. 

Some things are then sent directly to be ironed, while the rest 
pass on to the third critical process, — the starching. Special 
care is taken to have the specific article starched as it should be, 
or, in some cases, as the customer has definitely requested. 
Special care is taken of the collars, which are hung over a bar, 
and not by the buttonholes, and in drying them and all starched 
things quickly, as an aid in securing fine results. 

From this room we pass into the third, or ironing room, which 
takes up about two-thirds of the floor, with east, north, and 
south exposures. Here one remarks the unusual fact that every- 
thing is ironed by hand, except the collars and cuffs. Polishing, 
or small irons are used on the starched or detailed work, like 
embroideries, and large irons on the rest of the garment. Collars 
are dampened between moist cloths, then they and the shirts are 
pressed for a definite length of time in hydraulic presses, to 
ensure an even dampness. The collars are ironed by passing fiat 
between heated rollers heavily padded, the crease dampened, and 
the collar turned and finished by hand. Handkerchiefs have 



iqoq] Another View of the Sunshine Laundry 377 

special care. No marks are put on them. In order to keep those 
of each person or family together, they are enclosed in cotton 
bags and then thoroughly washed by steam. In ironing, the 
handkerchiefs, those in each bag are also kept together, and when 
finished they are marked by labeled strips of paper encircling 
each pile. When finished, all these things pass by elevator or by 
hand to the main floor, where they are sorted and packed for 
shipment. 

Unusual results are obtained by the laundry in the production 
of the flat work. The care in dampening and pressing, and the 
ironing with the large irons gives a beautiful luster, making the 
table linen, especially, look like new. 

There seems to be no sense of stress or press. The work goes 
on and on in a cheery, sunny, bright, capable manner, and one 
may well comment on the freshness of the air in all parts of the 
building. It is probable that no laundry of its size any^vhere 
approaches it in doing so much of its work by hand, — machinery 
being used only when necessary. The Misses White began with 
the ideal of hand work and have adhered to that principle 
unswervingly. This undoubtedly accounts for their success, 
as shown by the fact that the first week the laundry was in 
existence it had seven workers and received forty-two bundles; 
while at this writing, in April, 1909, there are 125 workers (the 
present usual force) and 1800 bundles, meaning in this case that 
over 30,000 pieces are taken care of within the week. 

The proprietors are both graduates of Smith College and it is 
easy to see how much such women, — workers with brains and 
culture, which means appreciation of high standards and ideals, 
— are needed in this field alone. 

No Vv^onder the customers of the Sunshine Laundry are found 
in all the New England states, the Middle West, and far South, as 
well as in its own neighborhood. The prices charged for launder- 
ing compare most favorably with those on any lists from laundries 
the country over which claim to do work of like excellence. The 
proprietors, with unlimited courtesy, are glad to show their 
plant to anyone, and their superintendents execute their desires 
in this regard in a most happy manner. 



MISS MARIA PARLOA. 

Miss Maria Parloa, widely known as a teacher and writer on the 
art of cookery, Home Economics, Domestic Science and kindred 
subjects, died August 21, 1909 at her home in Bethel, Conn., 
where she had lived for about five years, following a long resi- 
dence in New York City. Funeral services were held at her 
home at Bethel, Conn., August 24, and at the Chapel at Forest 
Hills Cemetery, Boston, August 25. Reverend Thomas C. 
Campbell, rector of St. John's Church, Jamaica Plain, officiated 
at the latter service, and many of the old friends who had known 
Miss Parloa intimately during her long residence in Boston were 
present. The body was cremated and the ashes deposited in a 
lot at Forest Hills. 

Miss Parloa had been in poor health for some months and on 
the Wednesday before her death underwent an operation from 
which she failed to rally. Until quite recently she had expected 
to be able to go with a party of friends to Europe, for a year or 
two of travel. 

With the exception of the books on cookery Miss Parloa 
bequeathed her library to the borough of Bethel, Conn., with 
fimds in trust, the income to be used for library maintenance. 
The borough of Bethel was also bequeathed a sum for the estab- 
lishment of an athletic field for the use of the young people of the 
place, while a generous bequest was also made to the Maine 
Central Institute of Pittsfield, Me. Her books on cookery 
Miss Parloa bequeathed to the Boston Public Library. 

Miss Parloa, who was of English descent, was bom in Septem- 
ber, 1843, in Massachusetts. Her parents died in her youth, 
and in her early girlhood she went to Maine and entered the 
Central Institute at Pittsfield, from which she was graduated 
with credit. After her graduation she went to Florida and 
taught school in Mandarin several seasons. There she was also 
interested in Sunday school work and, to help the Sunday 
school to secure a much -needed organ, she gave at New London, 
Connecticut, the next summer she came North, her first lecture 
on the art of cookery. This proved so successfvil in showing 
results to be achieved in any home by knowledge rightly 
applied that she continued her study of the^subject and^made it 
her life work. 

378 



1909] Miss Maria Parloa 379 

She had always been interested in household matters and had 
improved every opportunity to perfect herself in such things, 
and from statements made in her published works it is evident 
that she early acquired a thorough knowledge of methods of 
cooker)'- and of other household matters. Her first profes- 
sional work as a lecturer began in Boston in the siimmer of 1877, 
when her practical demonstrations attracted widespread atten- 
tion and created genuine interest to an extent which caused 
Miss Parloa to open in the autumn a school of cooker}- in Tremont 
Street, at the comer of Mason Street, where private classes learned 
under her instruction by careful observation and actual practice 
how to cook in healthful, economical and yet tempting ways. 

Miss Parloa was for several years a special instructor at Lasell 
Seminar}'- at Aubumdale, gave courses in sick-room cooker}- to 
Han.-ard medical students, lectured before classes at the Boston 
Cooking School and gave many courses in various places in New 
England as well as at the Chautauqua Assembly. Sbe went 
abroad in the late seventies and made researches as to English 
and French methods of cooking. After her return and following 
lecture tours in Western cities, she removed, in 1882, to Xew 
York City, where, in East Seventeenth Street, near Stuy^esant 
Square, she opened a model school of cooking, conducted upon 
the same plan as her Boston school. This school she conducted 
for several years, relinquishing it upon going abroad for a long 
stay. 

After her return from this visit to Europe Miss Parloa devoted 
her time, as she had in part previously, to writing. She contrib- 
uted to various leading magazines, to the nutrition bulletins of 
the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and wrote a number of 
books, including Camp Cooker}-, First Principles of Household 
Management and Cooker}-. Xew Cook Book and Marketing 
Guide, The Kitchen Companion. The Young Housekeeper. House- 
hold Economics, etc. Her first book, The Appledore Cook Book, 
was published in 1872. 

All of her books have bad a widespread circulation, and are 
notable not only for the information they provide and the good 
judgment shown in the collection and arrangement of material 
but also for the clear, simple, and direct style which characterizes 
all her writings and never leaves the reader in doubt. For 
many years Miss Parloa has been connected with Tlie Ladies' 



380 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Home Journal as one of its editors, conducting a department 
devoted to the subject which she had made her life study. 

Miss Parloa was an original member of the Lake Placid Con- 
ference of Home Economics, organized in September, 1899, and a 
valued contributor to its programs and committee work. She 
was also an original member of the American Association of 
Home Economics and was present at the organization meeting 
in Washington, D. C, January, 1909. 

Miss Parloa was one of the first in the United States to see 
clearly that household duties were something more than tasks, 
that they had an important relation to life in general, and could 
be approached by the same methods as other subjects worthy of 
study. Writing in 1877, she says "The preparation of food should 
be made more a matter of conscience with the housekeeper and 
cook than it is at present. In planning the preparation of a 
dish, the question should not be, Is it convenient, and will it 
please ? but Will it be healthful, mentally, morally, and physically? 
for the food we eats affects all three natures. 

"Then food, to do its highest and best work, must be of the 
best quality, prepared carefully (but always to retain its simplest 
form), partaken of regularly in a cheerful room and in cheerful 
company." 

That conditions have greatly changed since this was written 
and that housekeepers are now very generally studying their 
problems seriously is in no sm.all degree due to Miss Parloa and 
her work. 

The Home Economics movement has grown to great proportions 
since Miss Parloa first began her lectures and to its development 
she has been a very important contributor. She was a cheerful 
observer, a woman of unusual experience in her work, a helpful 
teacher, and had the faculty in an unusual degree of inspiring in 
others a love for her chosen subject. 

A writer in The Boston Transcript of August 25, 1909. says: 
"It would have touched deeply Miss Parloa's friends in Boston if 
they could have seen yesterday afternoon the tribute of love 
paid to her at her home in Bethel, Conn. Although she had 
been a resident there for less than seven years, in that brief 
period she had won a firm and lasting hold on the affections of 
the whole community, and the expression of grief was as sincere 
as it was general. It was not confined to the older people; 



1 909] Miss Maria Parloa 381 

the young folks knew they had lost a rare friend and were eager 
to show in some way their sense of that loss. Each person 
present appeared to regard Miss Parloa as a little nearer, a little 
dearer, than she had been to anyone else. From all sides there 
came words of appreciation and praise for what she had done to 
improve Bethel, for it is chiefly through her efforts to arouse a 
feehng of civic pride that the old town has taken on a new and 
vastly better appearance, so that even the school children regard 
her as their benefactor. What is still to be done for them in her 
name they do not yet know; but she has remembered them in a 
characteristic manner. 

"It was a simple service that was conducted at her pleasant 
home. It drew together so many mourners that the house and 
spacious porches were filled. Masses of flowers hid the coffin. 
but there was no floral tribute more beautiful than that of the 
club to which she belonged, each member of which brought a 
single rose to lay reverently near the friend whose death had 
robbed them of one of their greatest sources of inspiration, 
enthusiasm and strength." 

Tributes to the Life arid Work of Miss Parloa. 

With a view to indicate more fully the importance and value of 
Miss Parioa's work as a pioneer in the field of Home Economics, 
it has been deemed of interest to supplement the foregoing brief 
account by the following letters of appreciation from some of her 
late associates: 

To the general public Miss Parloa was the one who knew not 
only how to prepare toothsome viands but who was able to give 
clearly stated directions to others. As a lecturer and author 
she was widely recognized. 

It is only the members of that inner circle of the workers for 
better sanitary living in all directions who have felt the inspira- 
tion of her broader sympathies and her clear insight into the 
needs of the community. 

Although not a scientificially trained woman herself (there 
were no opportunities for that in the fifties and sixties) no one 
saw more need in that direction and no one had more faith in 
what science might do for the housewife and for the community. 



382 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

It was for Miss Parloa's class and at her request that I and my 
associates of the Woman's Laboratory worked up the chemistry 
of cooking and cleaning first as lessons in her class room with 
kitchen utensils. 

It was her suggestion which led to our work for its introduction 
into the public school. She probably was an inspiration to 
others for it was a cardinal principal of belief with her that the 
public school was the place to spread good ideas. 

Miss Parloa was a student all her life and never let slip an 
opportunity of learning the newest and best. At the first sum- 
mer School of Food and Nutrition at Middletown, Conn., the 
younger teachers were often put to shame by her eagerness. 

Miss Parloa was a charter member of the Lake Placid Conference 
and her counsels did much to shape the work of that company 
and when a larger group met at Washington in December, 1908, 
to form the American Home Economics Association it was most 
gratifying to have Miss Parloa with us as a charter member. In 
the picture taken at the McKinley School on that day (see No. i 
of the Journal, frontispiece) she will be found as the center of 
the group. Her work was to the last an inspiration to others. 
The Association is proud to have had her approval. 

Ellen H. Richards 

My acquaintance w4th Miss Parloa was less intimate than 
with some of the other pioneers in home economics, but because 
of that my impressions of her may be even more distinct. 

Before ever I saw her she sent a long and cordial letter to the 
girl, uncertain as to choice of a life work, who appealed to her 
wider experience. One thing she said the first time I saw her 
(while a student at the Boston Cooking School and she hap- 
pened to call there) has influenced me many times, — that there 
was nothing with which a teacher of Domestic Science was not 
expected to be familiar since all arts and sciences touched the 
problems of food and shelter. Again, she said something which 
often occurs to me, — ^that many persons are so careless of detail, 
even in the scraping of dishes that they get but half an egg where 
a whole one is called for, not only losing material but changing 
proportions of recipes. 

She never ceased to study all phases of her chosen work, and 
certainly she was a vivid illustration of Ruskin's definition of a 



^909] Miss Maria Parloa 



383 



good cook. "To be a good cook" he says, "means the knowledge 
of all fruits, herbs, balms, and spices, and of all that is healing and 
sweet in fields and groves, savory in meats; it means carefulness, 
inventiveness, watchfulness, willingness, and readiness of ap- 
phance ; it means the economy of great grandmothers, and the 
science of modem chemists; it means much tasting and no 
wasting; it means English thoroughness, French art, and 
Arabian hospitality." 

Miss Parloa was all this and more,— she was a teacher of un- 
usual success, a writer with a large public, and an investigator at a 
time when most persons were content to know how to do things, 
and were not concerned with the why of household problems! 
Best of all, she was a valued friend to all who came to know her 
well. 

The record of her Hfe should inspire all the young students of 
the household arts with the need of "carefulness, inventiveness, 
watchfulness, willingness" as well as "the science of modem 
chemists." Anxa Barrows. 

The passing of Miss Maria Parloa marks an epoch in one of the 
most important activities which count for better living and 
higher standards in man's development. 

Just thirty years ago she was a pioneer teacher in the first 
incorporated cooking school in the United States, organized in 
Boston C1879) under the auspices of the Women's Educational 
Association, the same liberal minded workers who made possible 
the Harvard examinations for women. Large hearted, broad 
minded, full of warm sympathy for all that is best worth living 
for, her infiuence can hardly be overestimated. 

As a member of the first Lake Placid Conference on Home 
Economics and an almost constant attendant, her sound judg- 
ment and broad grasp of problems there discussed carried great 
weight. Her personality was very winning and her influence 
stood for all that was best in our American home hfe. Recogniz- 
ing as she did years ago that the nation which will lead the world 
will be a nation of homes, her work stands as representative of 
the tmest form of patriotism, that which builds for character 
and counts for love of country and of home. It is such work as 
hers which helps to make permanent and prosperous homes, 
the strength of any country. Annie Dewey. 



384 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

My acquaintance with Miss Parloa began with the summer 
school for Home Economics held at Middletown, Conn., in 
1902. Her enthusiasm, genial spirit and devotion to the 
work attracted me greatly. 

The reply she made to Professor Atwater at one of the lectures 
when he asked her to explain a certain point: — "I do not think I 
can make it clear. Professor Atwater because I do not understand 
it very well myself," — seems to me to indicate one great secret of 
her success. In her books and lectures she did not attempt to tell 
what she did not know from actual experience. One of the 
pleasantest memories I have of her is of the night I spent at her 
Bethel home. 

She was so enthusiastic over her garden and her home. She 
said she felt she must work with the vegetables before she wrote 
the Government Farmers' Bulletin on the cooking of vegetables. 
There were so many little points about which she wished to 
satisfy herself. She was so modest about her own attainments 
that we found it difficult to secure the data we wished for publica- 
tion. 

We shall greatly miss from the workers one who brought to us 
so much of good cheer, inspiration and accurate knowledge. 

Isabel Bevier. 

For a number of years it has been my good fortune to know 
Miss Parloa and count her a friend. She wrote two Farmers' 
Bulletins for the Office of Experiment Stations, — Canned 
Fruits, Preserves and Jellies; Household Methods of Prepara- 
tion, and Preparation of Vegetables for the Table, which 
have had a very large circulation, and are still in great 
demand. Very frequently in connection with the Office of 
Experiment Stations' nutrition work questions arose in which 
Miss Parloa 's advice was needed, and from the fund of her 
knovvdedge and experience she freely gave. This cooperation with 
the Office of Experiment Stations gave us an unusual oppor- 
tunity to become familiar with Miss Parloa's accurate knowledge, 
careful attention to details of work, and her scientific attitude of 
mind. She was never satisfied to make a statement unless it 
could be substantiated by her own knowledge, or the results of 
some one's experiment or research. Her observations on the 
effects of methods of cookery upon the wholesomeness of food 



1909] Miss Maria Parloa 385 

were extended, and in this and in other ways she contributed 
much which is of value to the science of food and nutrition. 

C. F. Langworthy. 

Maria Parloa, who died a few weeks ago, was in many ways a 
most remarkable woman. She has left to the world a rich legacy 
in her works on household economics. She was a pioneer in the 
work and her books are the foundation upon which most of the 
good books on cookery that we have today are based. She was 
second to none in her line of work and her interest never flagged. 
She kept abreast of the times in everything pertaining to her 
subject. Her thorough understanding of the art of seasoning 
made her cooking stand at the head in this country. She was 
generous to a fault, always ready to help the struggling friend to 
a better position, and we shall never know how much she has 
done for those who needed the help she could give. Those of us 
who knew and loved her will sadly miss her sweet spirit from our 
midst. Maria Daniell. 



EDITORIALS. 

, The meeting of the National Education 

„ . , ^ , Association held in Denver, Col., July 5-0, 

National Educa- , . , r i,- i. > j j 3 y^ 

. . . a bnef summary of which appears on page 390, 

tion Association. , , ■ j. ,. . ^^ j -^u 

was one of deep interest to all concerned with 

the newer phases of education. 

Compared with any former program this one shows an extra- 
ordinary number of papers that deal with the application of 
education to actual living conditions. We find here an ample 
response to the popular appeal so long disregarded that the 
schools shall train boys and girls primarily for good citizenship, 
to be healthy, moral and useful members of societ '. 

"How May the Schools be More Closely Related to the Life 
and Needs of the People" was the subject of one paper, but 
variously worded this was the subject of many others. 

The meeting of this association at Denver showed how wel- 
come to those engaged in pioneer work is an opportunity of com- 
paring experiences and of learning the trend of thought in each 
other's localities. 

The formation of local clubs is urged on the workers as an 
excellent means of gaining courage as well as of disseminating 
information. 

Much space is given in the present number 
^^ of the Journal, to reports of the Denver meet- 

ing of the Home Economics Association and 
still other papers and reports will appear in subsequent num- 
bers. The membership of the Association as printed in the 
first or February number of the Journal was 746. It is now 
about 850. 

It is time to scrutinize this list in order to determine to what 
classes of people the Association appeals and to discover whether 
the Journal is meeting their needs. 

First. By far the larger proportion, at least four fifths, of 
the membership, is composed of those who are directly interested 
in the teaching of Home Economics and Manual Training. They 
were largely instrumental in forming the Association and to 
them the Journal furnishes in each issue valuable articles bear- 
ing on their work. A strong point has been the study of nutri- 

386 



Editorials 387 

tion, a subject that appeals strongly to the teacher. The two 
departments, News from Institutions and News from the Field, 
bring information from others engaged in the work. 

Second. Of next importance on our list of subscribers are 
those whose interests center in what is now denominated Social 
Service. Such persons seek information on whatever conduces 
to the well-being of the inmates of institutions, and on "extension 
work," which aims to instruct young and old in the ways 
of right living, whether in settlements or farmers' institutes or 
through city lecture courses or by means of the printed page. 
Matrons of institutions, dietitians, settlement workers, students 
of vital statistics, hygienists, librarians have already found in 
our pages valuable information, and will continue to do so. In 
the current number may be noted Dr. Sill's study on malnutrition 
in school children, while in former numbers will be found articles 
on institution dietaries and management, on clean food and 
on other allied subjects. 

Third. The housekeeper and club woman makes up the 
third class of those belonging to the Association. Most of 
these would also be classed among those who watch with keen 
interest the outside conditions that affect other homes than their 
own and they would find much in the articles that are especially 
directed to the worker in Social Service. But the Journal 
aims also to meet more directly her need of help as a 
worker and an administrator within her own four walls. The 
relation of work as done in the house to the development 
of outside industries is a pressing subject for discussion, the 
saving of labor, the ethical questions that underlie the expen- 
diture of the family income, the relation of home to school, art in 
its relation to dress and house decoration, are all questions of 
vital interest, which will receive full attention in the pages of the 
Journal. 

We hope to increase the number of intelligent house- 
wives on our list of subscribers. Such an increase in our mem- 
bership would call for a larger proportion of articles that appeal 
especially to them. 

The editors cordially invite subscribers and readers to 
send articles that are in line with the purpose of the Journal, 
also items of interest regarding institutions and courses of study. 



2 88 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

They also welcome criticisms and suggestions. Only by such 
co-operation can the Journal be made a success, for as yet 
articles cannot be paid for. 

Keep your files of the Journal. It aims to bring into its 
pages a report of what is vital in the great movement that is to 
put at the service of the home the results of modem progress and 
enquiry. History is made along these lines and its original 
records will be valuable for reference. Keep your files. 

The Journal is the property of the Association, its 
organ for information and exchange of opinion; it has no 
advertising agent busy with ingenious schemes for bringing it to 
the attention of an increasing number of people. Its circulation 
can grow only through the efforts of members. The editors hold 
a limited number of copies for free distribution and they will be 
sent on application as samples to those who are likely to become 
subscribers. 



AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION SECOND 
ANNUAL MEETING. 

Attention is again directed to the second annual meeting 
of the Association, to be held at Boston, Friday, December 31, 
1909 and Saturday, January i, 1910. The Hotel Westminister, 
Trinity Place, has been selected as the headquarters for December 
3 1 , and it is expected that either a luncheon or dinner will be 
held there upon that date. 

The meetings have been arranged to take place at the time of 
the winter meeting of the American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science, which annually draws together a large assemblage 
of the scientific workers of this country. Associate membership 
in this association, costing $3.00, enables the holder to secure the 
special railway rates provided, and participation in the many 
events planned for the meetings. No separate railway rates 
can be secured for the Home Economics Association. 

The sessions of the Home Economics Association will include a 
business session, at which will occur the annual election of officers 
and the discussion of future policies. Letters in regard to these 
may be sent to the Secretary by those who cannot be present. 
The fullest expression of opinion is desired. At other sessions 
papers will be presented and there will be short addresses by 
some of the prominent men and women who will be in attendance 
at Boston during the week, as well as a social session for better 
acquaintance. As at the annual meeting last winter arrange- 
ments are being made for round table conferences. 

A New England Branch of the Association was organized at a 
meeting held at Simmons College, October 9. The officers 
chosen, viz.: Miss S. L. Arnold of Simmons College, chairman, 
Herbert S. Weaver, vice-chairman, and Miss Isabel F. Hyams, 
secretary- treasurer, with Prof. W. D. Hurd, Miss Alice Wilcox, 
Miss Bertha M. Terrill, and Robert L. O'Brien, additional 
members of the executive committee, will constitute a committee 
of arrangements for the Association meeting. 

The December issue of the Journ.\l will contain additional 
details of the meeting. Requests for information may also be 
sent to Miss H. L Goodrich, 264 Boylston St.; Miss Hester 
Ridlon, Simmons College; or the President of the Association, 
Mrs. E. H. Richards, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

389 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The forty-seventh convention was held July 3 to 9. 
Denver Meeting The attention accorded to industrial education was 
of National remarkable. As noted editorially in Experiment Station 

Education Record: "Nearly one-half of all the papers, addresses, 

Association. and reports presented at the convention dealt in some 

direct way with one or more phases of industrial educa- 
tion. So decidedly did this subject dominate all others in the papers and 
discussions of the general sessions and the different department meetings 
that it shows clearly the almost universal demand for the reorganization 
of public school curricula along lines giving greater emphasis to local 
industrial and domestic affairs — agriculture, manual arts, and Home 
Economics. It might also be said that the desirability of introducing such 
work as rapidly as possible into the regular work of the public schools was 
taken for granted, and that the problems troubling those who attended the 
Denver convention related to methods, administration and the training of 
teachers." 

A large share of this interest in industrial training was accorded to those 
phases dealing more closely with Home Economics. The importance of 
Domestic Science teaching found decided recognition in the presidential 
address by L. D. Harvey, and in the address before the general convention 
by President J. W. Robertson of Macdonald College, entitled Education for 
the Improvement of Rural Conditions. 

Mrs. E. H. Richards read a paper before the department of elementary 
education on The Application of the Household Arts and Sciences to the 
Work of the Elementary School, and in the department of Manual Training 
discussed the influence of Domestic Science on rural and city home life. 
At the latter meeting the influence of Domestic Arts on rural and city home 
life was discussed by Miss Helen Schurz of Kansas. 

A movement which has been under way for a number of years for the 
reorganization of the departments of the National Education Association 
culminated at Denver in the adoption of the report of a special committee 
on reorganization, which reduced the number of departments from twenty- 
one to ten. In doing this three departments (physical education, Indian 
education, and the library) were eliminated entirel5^ The national council 
and the departments of higher education, music education, and special 
education remain as before, while the department of women's organiza- 
tions becomes the department of school patrons. 

The remaining thirteen departments will be combined as follows: 
The department of superintendence and that of school administration into 
a new department of superintendence; the department of child study and 
that of normal schools into a department of professional prepartion of 
teachers; the departments of elementary education and kindergarten 
education into a department of elementary education; the departments of 
secondary education, business education, and science instruction into a 
department of secondary education; and the departments of manual train- 

390 



'9°9] News from the Field 3^^ 

ing. rural and agricultural education, and technical instruction into a 
department of industrial education. This last department is a so to 
include Domestic Science mstruction 

J.^Verf7 °f 'r f}}'^^'-'^-' association elected for the ensuing 
year ^^ere. President, J. Y. Joynerof North CaroHna; treasurer Arthur 
Uiamberlam of CaUfomia; member of board of Trustees, J. M. Greenwood 

I H 4^;'^^';!;^!'.°^ '^''"'^'^" committee, J. H. Phillips of Alabama. 
i.a. Shepard holds the position of secretarj^ for life 

In connection with the Denver meeting of the National Education 
Association and American Home Economics Association the Wester^ 
Society of Techmcal Chemists and Metallurgists gave a reception an^ 
banquet^ at the Brown Palace Hotel, on July f, to tleir wives and others 
Dr. and Mrs. Robert H.Richards being the guests of honor. Mrs Richards 
Slnsh^rr''.^',.^'^^''?^ '° housekeeping and advised the men to 
establish a household appliance testing station, where the mechanical 
problems may be worked out and then to pledge their wives to give the 
machines a fair trial. ^ 

Ti,« w .• , ^^^ thirty-sixth conference of this association was held 

The National at Buffalo, June 9-16, and was well attended The 

rh^rr""" ^ ""T^ interesting and helpful program was presented. 

Chanties and From the standpoint of Home Economics the more 

conventions. immediate interest centered around the sections of 

andtheChlH • qT^'^' T^ Neighborhoods, Health and Sanitation, 
and the Children s Section. In the first of these the opening paper was the 
Integnty of the Family, by Joseph Lee of Boston, who protested Igainst 
ttn nf r' f T^^ betterment which would tend toward the disintegra- 
tion of the family. School feeding seems radical, but in reality is not 
radical enough. The home must be so far rehabilitated that the child can 
be property cared for within its shelter, and the community, instead of 
taking away the functions of the family, must rather educate the home- 
makers to the pomt of the efficient fulfillment of their function 

Miss Mary Richmond of Philadelphia enumerated five important points 
of contact between social work and public school education as follows- 
Irregular attendance of school children; premature employment- 
improper feeding and underfeeding; unwise start in first going to work' 
and construction and development of special ability, to which particula^ 
attention should be given. 

Dean L^ H. Bailey of Cornell University, with the topic Rural Communi- 
ties, found the greatest disabihty of country- neighborhoods to be their lack 
of social economic organization. Improvement was to be expected how- 
ever, through an awakened consciousness of the country itself rather than 
hrough city-directed philanthropies. Ameliorating conditions should be 
the increase of population, the extension of the means of communication 
the inevitable cooperation and organization of farmers for business pur' 
poses and the extension of education and recreation. The church the 
school, the library- and the press must be made more effective \ similar 
point of view was taken by John C. Campbell, who described conditions 



392 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

among the white people of the Southern mountains. He advocated 
better and more centralized and specialized schools, wherein the boys 
could be taught concerning the mountain resources and their exploitation, 
and the girls could receive instruction in cooking, nursing, and other home 
arts. He considered that Southern spirit and experience could be more 
fully used in solving the problems and suggested that the institutions 
founded under Northern auspices should be turned over as rapidly as pos- 
sible to local auspices. 

In the Section of Health and Sanitation, Roy Smith Wallace discussed 
The Responsibilities and Opportunities of a Health Officer. In this he 
considered the shortcomings of sanitary regulation as chiefly due to the 
lack of special training of officials for work in public hygiene, and largely 
remediable by more extended education, especially in the public schools. 
Dr. Luther H. Gulick spoke on private and municipal administration, 
and Dr. G. W. Goler gave a stereopticon lecture on Milk for Babes. At 
a subsequent session institution dietetics was discussed. Dr. C. F. 
Langworthy of the United States Department of Agriculture presented 
an account of dietary studies conducted as a part of the Nutrition 
Investigations of the Office of Experiment Stations in Philadelphia, 
Baltimore and Washington. Dr. Herbert Mason King described the 
progress in scientific feeding of tuberculosis patients at Loomis Sanatorium. 

Among the speakers in the Children's Section was Miss Martha Berry of 
Georgia, who discussed Rural Education among Southern Highlanders, 
with special reference to the work of her school at Rome, Ga. Not only 
have new thrift and ambition come to characterize the boys of the school, 
but it has been also very effective as an object lesson to the entire com- 
munity. George Sehon of Kentucky instanced the extension of effort for 
education among the mountaineers of Kentucky and the great ambition 
of the younger generation to get effective schooling. 

Officers were elected for the ensuing year, the most important being the 
following : 

President, Jane Addams, Chicago; first vice-president, F. H. Nibecker, 
Glen Mills, Pa.; second vice-president, Ansley Wilcox, Buffalo, N. Y.; 
third vice-president, Judge William H. DeLacy, Washington, D. C; 
general secretary, Alexander Johnson, Fort Wayne, Ind.; and treasurer, 
Edward Boyle, Chicago, 111. Miss Mary E. Richmond of Philadelphia is 
chairman of the Committee on Families and Neighborhoods; Thomas J. 
Riley of that on The School and the Community; and Dr. Charles P. 
Emerson, Clifton Springs, N. Y. of that on Health and Sanitation. 



NEWS FROM INSTITUTIONS. 

. A course of 30 lectures was given at the summer school 

. during July by Mrs. Ellen H. Richards. Lectures deal- 

ing with The Relation between Costs and Efficiency, 
alternated with those having for a general subject Euthenics, — Better 
living, the Effect of Environment. 

Under the former title were discussed the following topics : Economics 
of living, — ideals of spending; differences between twentieth and nine- 
teenth centuries in conditions; standards — psychic income; cost of 
shelter — body needs, psychic needs; the increased cost of sanitary science; 
the capitalist's opportunity; estimates of three grades of income; cost of 
food in relation to efficiency; cost of clean food in production and transpor- 
tation and storage; cost of cleanness, municipal cleanness, markets, etc.; 
the clean house and family habits, — costs; prevention cheaper than 
reformation; cost in human life of neglect and ignorance; educating the 
masses by example, — museums, public lectures, traveling exhibits, etc.; 
and State interest in the efficiency of its citizens. 

The course on euthenics embodied the following lectures: Oppor- 
tunities for the improvement in education, ideals, sanitation, therefore in 
health; individual effort — each strives for his ideal, learning the reasons 
and understanding the philosophy; community efforts — best ideals of 
individuals become ideals of community to be striven for; personal habits 
and ideals cultivated for future effect on family and community — clean 
homes; public habits, public buildings, public schools; effect of public 
sanitation on private habits and conditions, especially on aliens; children 
of today adults of tomorrow, hence value of training; teaching the children 
is the chief occupation of the family — reflex influence of this teaching on 
the family is good; effect on the community — community has duty to 
family, again reflex; public works — methods of government are educa- 
tional; agents of education — students of social conditions and scientific 
research, educational institutions bringing to the mass of the people an 
awakening; applied science, i. e.. Home Economics for girls, sanitary 
engineering courses; not until those agencies are complete is united effort 
effective — for instance, water supply, garbage, flies, mosquitoes; com- 
munity enterprise means more perfect control of environment, hence its 
spread throughout the country — central heating as well as lighting plants, 
employment bureaus, laundries, kitchens; it is the duty of the higher edu- 
cation to lead the way, — satisfaction with life is the best defense against 
disease; great opportunity for the teacher of Home Economics; and the 
power and the responsibility of the homemaker. 

The lectures were very well attended, some one hundred hearers being 
registered and twenty-five for university credit. 

It was proved beyond all question that interest in both private and 
municipal housekeeping is fully awakened and at last intelligent women 
and thoughtful men are grasping the fact that science may be applied to 
the affairs of daily living and that it is in this direction that progress is 

393 



294 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

to be made in the betterment of social conditions. The marvelous 
regeneration of San Francisco in so many respects must make the other 
cities about the bay more active in the civic housekeeping lines. 

The State Board of Health had most opportunely fitted up a car to 
illustrate sanitary defects and remedies and to educate the people by 
statistics, charts and models in the facts so well known to sanitary experts. 
An illustration of the exhibit forms the frontispiece of this issue of the 
Journal. 

This car was used as a practical demonstration during one week of the 
lectures and was most helpful. Other states would do well to imitate this 
example. Mrs. Richards also suggested in one of her lectures that city 
boards of health might use some window space along a crowned street for 
varied exhibits, photographs, etc. of conditions demanding remedy. 

The work thus auspiciously opened, is to be systematically continued. 
Acting upon the suggestion of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, the 
authorities of the university are planning the co-ordination of a number 
of courses now in the curriculum for the organization of a department of 
Domestic Science. 

Three instructors are interested in the courses, viz. Professor Meyer E. 
Jaffa, head of the State Pure Food Laboratory, Miss Jessica Peixotto, 
assistant professor of sociology, and C. G. Hyde, associate professor of 
sanitary engineering. A formal announcement of the new department 
was made with the opening of the university. It is not planned to add 
any courses to those of last term, but to correlate and expand those already 
established in such a way to to make possible a comprehensive investiga- 
tion of the conduct of the home. 

Professor Peixotto's participance in the department will include the 
courses which she has previously given in the department of economic. 
Poverty will be studied, not only in the phases of its relief, but also of its 
prevention. The problems involved in the care of children by the State, 
when such care is necessary, will be approached, with deductive conclus- 
sions for parental care. 

The Household as an Economic Agent is the title of another course, 
which will have to do with the relation of the home and its management 
to economic life. 

Water supply, sewage disposal and the like in their sanitary aspects will 
be taught the students in courses by Professor Hyde. Three courses will 
be offered in sewage disposal; in one, students will receive training in 
watchfulness over plumbing. Another course will treat of the quality of 
water from the esthetic, commerical and sanitary points of view, how to 
get pure water and how to keep it pure, and the necessity for both. 

Of special importance will be Professor Hyde's course in "applied 
sanitary science." In this he will consider the interpretation of vital 
statistics, the significance of dust, dirt and filth, the problem of ventilation 
and warming, of baths and laundries, of house and street cleaning, of 
water, milk and other food supplies, of garbage and refuse collection and 
allied topics. 

Co-ordinate with these will be courses in the source and preparation of 
foods, given by Professor Jaffa in the department of nutrition. One of his 



1909] News From Institutions xq< 

courses wiU have to do especially with the composition and purposes and 
preparation of human food, and with food adulteration and food preserva- 
tives. Laboratory courses in food analysis will be given at the agricul- 
tural building. 

The university has also announced that for the first time credit will 
be given on entrance requirements of from i>^ to 6 units for Domestic 
Science. Six units are now aUowed for elementary French, German or 
Spanish. The credit for Domestic Science must be accompanied by credit 
for chemistry, except that decorating and furnishing will be accepted for a 
maximum of 1% units provided the candidate has credit also for free hand 
drawing. 



The State College "^''' Domestic Economy building which has been 

of Washington. completed and is now occupied by the department is a 
commodious three-story brick building. On the first 
floor are fuel rooms, the cloak rooms, the laundries, a cooking laboratory 
and a large lecture room. On the second floor are the office; the reception 
room, which will also be used as an exhibit room, where part of the student 
work will be kept; the dining room; a small and large cooking laboratory 
a large lecture room; and two class rooms. On the third floor are the sew- 
ing rooms, the rest room for the students of the department, the model 
bed-room, and the bath. The building is well Hghted, and is an ideal place 
tor the work for which it was designed. It is believed to be the only colle-e 
building west of the Rocky Mountains devoted wholly to the work of 
Domestic Economy. 

The course in Domestic Science offered is as follows: 
Kitchen Management.— The care of utensils, glass, china, and silver; 
care of the fire; cooking of cereals, vegetables, milk, eggs, cheese, soups' 
breads, beverages, etc. Six hours of laboratory work per week. 

General Cookery.— Cooking of meats, salads, desserts, cakes, frozen 
mixtures , and fruits. Care of dining room and table ser^-ice. Six hours 
of laboratory' work per week. 

Advanced Cooker>^— The preser^-ation of fruits and vegetables food 
rations, dietaries, invalid cookery, and bills of fare. Six hours of laboratory 
work per week. 

Food Economy.— Lectures on foods; marketing; the study of dietaries. 

Laundry Work.— Lectures and practical work in washing, starching 

ironing, and polishing; caring for fine lace; cleaning and pressing of cloth' 

removal of ink and other stains. Two hours of laboratory work per week! 

_ Home Xursing.— One lecture per week on care of the sick; first aid 

simple household tests and remedies for disease; care of infants. 

Domestic Science ^^^ Southern Educational Review, for December- 
Teaching in January, 1908-09, contains an article by Elizabeth G. 
Georgia. ^°^^' describing a phase of domestic science which is 
being tested in Augusta, Ga. The school is located in a 
cottage, typical of the home of the average mill laborer, and is situated 
directly m front of the large public school from which its pupils come for 



396 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

their work. "The general plan of the work is for the grades to come in 
small sections numbering from 6 to 10 to this 'School Home' during the 
morning hours, for instruction in cookery, housecleaning and all matters 
of value in good home-making, sewing, handicrafts, and gardening. In 
the afternoons, following a regular schedule, groups of four or five children 
'keep house' in the School Home. Each group comes every two weeks. 
The house belongs to them for the time being, and theirs is the responsi- 
bility to have it clean and in order to cook a luncheon for invited guests, to 
sew, to garden, in fact, to occupy themselves as good housekeepers. 
Through this practice they gain a degree of independence and grow in habits 
of order and cleanliness." The teacher is near enough to be called on for 
advice if necessary, but she does not interfere with the freedom of the chil- 
dren, her commendation or criticism coming afterwards. The children are 
now raising a fund with which to build a model cottage by selling various 
things that they cook and handicraft articles. The cottage and its equip- 
ment are to be planned by the children. 



The Journal of Education [Boston], of June 3, 1909, 
The Relation of contains an article on The Relation of the Teacher of 
the Teacher of Domestic Science to the Community, by Miss Anna Bar- 
Domestic Science rows, of Teachers' College, Columbia University, from 
to the Community which we quote as follows: "The general educational 
value of Domestic Science is well established with those 
who have investigated it, and its practical bearing on personal hygiene, 
temperance, and thrift are unquestioned." 

"Other things being equal, the best special teacher will be the one who 
has had some experience in general teaching and thus knows the capacity 
of average children and the limitations of the schoolroom." 

"The Domestic Science teacher who has been a general teacher and is a 
practical housekeeper may accomplish much in any public school in cor- 
relating the work of other teachers with her own and helping them to 
make their instruction more helpful to the homes." 

"The teacher who boards is likely to adapt her program to the school- 
room rather than to markets or social conditions." 

"The school of Domestic Science or the public school kitchen should be as 
much an experiment station for the housekeepers of the community as is 
consistent with its regular routine. Through the indirect influence of the 
teacher, who is looking for opportunities, much has been accomplished 
already, and more may be in purifying markets and foods, and improving 
the sanitary condition of public buildings." "There is no way in which a 
teacher today may better serve the individual, the family, and the com- 
munity than by inculcating thrift and the dignity of hand labor, and this is 
what Domestic Science stands for." 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

What Ought To Be Done To Make the Schools Useful to Our Daughters. 

Katharine Eggleston. Woman's Home Companion, 36, No. 9, (Sept., 
1909), p. 20. 

"The present courses offered in Domestic Science are underestimated 
and limited by the attitude of the public and of the pupils themselves. 
I'he consistent adaptation of every phase of education to the needs of girls 
will have a tendency to make the girls see the real dignity and value of 
whatever makes them efficient in woman's sphere. Time and patience will 
bring to us a laboratory equipment which will serve for the actual working 
of Domestic Science. There are promising beginnings already made; and 
they will grow very fast if we wake up to see that a definitely womanly 
training is the great need of our time." 

Domestic Science in the Schools and Colleges. Helen Sayr Gray. No. 
Am. Rev. 190, (Aug., 1909), pp. 200-11. 

This is a popular article in which the apathetic attitude of many educa- 
tors and the general public toward the introduction of Domestic Science 
courses into the colleges and schools is deplored and a vigorous plea made 
for greater attention to the need for such courses. 

Health Studies, Applied Physiology and Hygiene. By Ernest B. 
Hoag, Lecturer in Hygiene at the University of California and elsewhere, 
with a prefatory note by David Starr Jordan, President Leland Stanford, 
Jr., University. Boston, D. C. Heath, 1909. 

"To help the young people in our schools who will be men and women be- 
fore long is the purpose of this book." Men and women who "ought to 
know better than to do unwholesome things must be taught to do better." 
The style is clear and concise, suggestive rather than explanatory and for 
the most part up-to-date. A few old statements have crept in like 
"sewer gas is poisonous"; "carbon dioxide the poisonous gas exhaled from 
the lungs." An appendix with review questions and reading references 
adds to the value. 

A Field Kitchen of the German Army. Faller (Umschau, 13, No. 26, 

PP- 552, 553, fig- i)- 

A portable range is described. 

England's Field Kitchen. lUust. London News, Am. Ed. 43 (1908), No. 
1121, p. 643. 

Similar to the above. 

Patent Foods and Patent Medicines, R. Hutchison. (Two lectures 
London, 1906, pp. 47. 

This publication, contains data regarding the composition of a number 
of infant foods, invalid foods, and patent medicines. So often the question 
arises, where can data be found on patent foods that mention is made of 
the publication though it has been in print for some time. 

The Fuels of the Household. By Marian White, Boston. Whitcomb & 
Barrows. Cloth, pp. 97. 

397 



398 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Since information on this subject has not always been readily avail- 
able for housekeepers, it has not had the attention that it deserves. Now 
that we are beginning to consider the conservation of our national re- 
sources, such a book is especially timely. Miss White discusses the origin, 
composition and uses of the various fuels, thereby affording a history of the 
development in cooking and lighting, with special reference to the eco- 
nomics of the household. It has been designed especially for young house- 
keepers and those who are to become such. 

Practical Testing of Gas and Gas Meters. By C. H. Stone, B.S., M.S., 
Chief Inspector of Gas, Public Service Commission, Second District, New 
York. New York, John Wiley & Sons; London, Chapman & Hall, Ltd., 
1909; 8vo., pp. x + 337, figs. 51. Cloth. 

The work consists of four parts dealing respectively with photometry, 
chemical tests, calorimetry, specific gravity and pressure, and testing of 
meters. It is stated that so far as the writer knows, no book, written by an 
American and dealing purely with American methods of gas manufacture 
and testing.and thoroughly up-to-date, is available today, and the volume 
has been prepared to meet these requirements. 

"The writer's chief aim has been to explain clearly, simply and fully such 
tests as would be of practical service to the gas manager, chemist or 
photometrist, and to make such comments and suggestions as might guide 
him in his choice of apparatus or process and assist him to secure accurate 
and useful results therewith." 

A Crystalline Bleaching Powder. K. J. P. Orton and W. J. Jones. 
Jour. Chem. Soc. [London] 95 (1909), I, pp. 751-757. 
A study of the chemical nature of bleaching powder. 

The Textile Fibers. — Their Physical, Microscopical and Chemical 
Properties. By J. Merritt Matthews, Ph.D., formerly head of Chemical 
and Dyeing Department, Philadelphia Textile School. New York, John 
Wiley & Sons; London, Chapman & Hall, Ltd.; 2d ed. rev. and enl. 
8vo., pp. viii -I- 480. Figs. 127. Cloth. 

This second edition of what may be considered the standard work on 
textile fibers in the English language, has been carefully revised, though 
the arrangement and general plan of the first edition have been retained. 
Much valuable matter has been added. The scope of the volume may be 
judged from the following table of contents: 

Contents: Classification of the Textile Fibres; Wool and Hair Fibres; 
The Chemical Nature and Properties of Wool and Hair Fibres; Shoddy and 
Wool Substitutes; Minor Hair Fibres; Silk: Its Origin and Cultivation; 
Chemical Nature and Properties of Silk; The Vegetable Fibres; Cotton; 
The Physical Structure and Properties of Cotton; Chemical Properties of 
Cotton; Cellulose; Mercerized Cotton; Seed-hairs other than Cotton; 
Artificial Silks, Lustra-cellulose; Linen; Jute, Ramie, Hemp, and Minor 
Vegetable Fibres; Qualitative Analysis of the Textile Fibres; Quantita- 
tive Analysis of the Textile Fibres; Appendix I, Microscopic Analysis of 
Fabrics; Appendix II, Machine for Determining Strength of Fibres; 
Appendix III, Commercial Varieties of American Cotton; Appendix IV. 
Bibliography of the Textile Fibres. 




CQ ^ 



O 0) 

o o 

u f. 

Wo 
(J <u 

^^ 



TH E 

Journal^/ Home Economics 

Vol. I. DFXEMBER, 1909 No. 5 

A STUDY OF HOUSEHOLD EXPENDITURES.'^ 

Bertha M. Terrill. 

Many problems confront the housekeeper of today which have 
risen from inventions unknown a generation ago. This is 
especially true of food supplies and methods of food preparation. 

The following study is an attempt to throw some light upon : ( i ) 
The comparative cost of coal, gas and oil as fuels in food prepara- 
tion; and (2) some factors regarding the purchase of foods. 

The study has been necessarily limited and its chief value w411 
lie in suggesting directions in which discriminating selections 
should be made, based upon more substantial grounds than 
fancy, the words of the dealer or the oft-times erroneous super- 
ficial judgments of value. It has not been possible to include a 
discussion of many points closely related to those considered in 
the studies made, such as the time and labor involved; the pos- 
sible use of a coal range for other than cooking purposes, as 
heating hot water and warming the kitchen or other rooms; and 
the possible avoidance of the dirt and discomfort of a coal range, 
all of which questions and others should be weighed in connection 
with those discussed in the studies given. 

(i) Cost of fuels. 

In testing the cost of the application of heat to foods a study 
was made of: (a) Coal and gas ranges, an Aladdin oven and a 
fireless cooker; (b) the relative cost of cheap cuts of meat and 
higher priced cuts when gas is used in their preparation; and 
(c) the difference in cost of gas vv'hen used carelessl}^ and when 
carefully regulated. 

Tests with coal and gas ranges and an Aladdin oven. — What 
might be regarded as t3'pical processes were selected, the tempera- 

aThis is a condensation of a dissertation submitted to the Faculty of the Graduate 
School of Arts and Literature in candidacy for the degree of Master of Arts. Department 
of Household Administration, University of Chicago, 1908. 

399 



400 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



ture and length of time of cooking in each case being such as are 
considered most desirable. These were kept uniform as far as 
possible. 

The tabulated results with the coal stove were as follows : 





Results With 


A Co 


AL Stove. 




Kind of Food. 


Amount. 


Temp. 


Time. 


Fuel Used. 


Cost. 


Beef, roast 

Beef, corned . . . 
Stew 


2 lbs., 7 oz. 

3 lbs., 8 oz. 

2 lbs., beef, round 
Vegetables 

3 loaves 

3 K qts. (dry) 
I cup (dry) 
I loaf 


Deg. C. 
195 

165 

175 
165 

100 
195 


Hours. 
125 

5 

4 

I 

8.5 

16 

I 


Coke, 3 lbs., 6 oz.; 
coal, 1 1 lbs., 10 oz. 
Coke, 5 lbs.; 
coal, 17 lbs., 4 oz. 
Coke, 4 lbs., 13 oz.; 
coal, 6 lbs., 5 oz. 
Coke, 3 lbs., 6 oz.; 
coal, 20 lbs. 1 1 oz. 
Coke, 6 lbs., i oz. ; 
coal, 20 lbs. 1 1 oz. 
Coke, 3 lbs., 6 oz.; 
coal, 8 lbs., 12 oz. 
Coke, 3 lbs. ; 
coal, 5 lbs. 


Cts. 
5.60 

9-13 
4.06 


Bread 


4.2^ 


Beans, baked(i) 
Beans, baked(2) 
Cake 


10. 
4-44 
2.94 







The following results were secured with the gas range : 



Results With a Gas Range. 



Kind of Food. 



Amount. 



Temp. 



Time. 



-Amount 
of Gas 
Used. 



Cost. 



Beef, roast . 
Beef, corned 
Stew 



Bread . . . 
Beans (i) 
Beans (2) 
Cake . . . . 
Soup . . . . 



Beef, roast . 
Lima beans 



2 lbs., 6 oz. 

3 lbs., 40Z. 

2 lbs., beef, round 
Vegetables 

3 loaves 
3i-<qts. (dry) 
I cup (dry) 

1 loaf 

2 qts. water, 3 lbs 

1 oz. bone 

4 lbs. 

2 cups, dry 



Deg. C. 
195 



180 
165 
115 
195 



Hours. 
125 

5 
4 



16 



Cu Ft. 

4542 
25.26 

20.5 
191.25 
123.87 

25 

12.41 

4542 



Cts. 

2.8 

3.86 
2.14 

1-74 

17-25 

10.53 

2.12 

105 

3.86 

0.3S 



The results given on the opposite page were obtained with the 
Aladdin oven : 



1909] 



.4 Study of Household Expenditures 
Results With the Aladdin Ovex. 



401 



Kind of Food. 


Amount, 


Temp. 


Time. 


Amount of 
Kerosene 

Used. 


Cost. 


Beef, roast 

Beef, corned 

Stew 


2 lbs., I oz. 
4 lbs., 8 oz. 

2 lbs. beef, round, 
Vegetables 

3 loaves 

3 Kqts. (dry) 

1 cup, dry 

2 qts. water, 3 lbs 

4 oz. bone 


Deg. C. 
100 

135 

145 

155 
135 
100 

100 


Hours. 
4 5 

5 

4 

1-75 
8.5 
16 

6 


10 OZ. 

2 lbs., 5 oz. 

1 lb., 5 oz. 

10 oz. 

2 lbs., 7 oz. 
I lb., 7 oz. 

14 oz. 


Cts. 

115 

4.26 

2.42 


Bread 

Beans, baked (i) .... 
Beans, baked (2) .... 

Soup 


115 

4.5 

2.65 

1.66 



In these experiments the fires were lighted and used exclusively 
for preparing the one dish at a time. The amount of fuel con- 
sumed was carefully measured, the coal by weight, the gas by 
meter and the oil as a fraction of a gallon (i quart oil = 26 ounces) . 
The cost of fuel is based on local Chicago prices, viz. coal S7.75 
per ton (2,000 lbs.); coke $6.75 per ton (2,000 lbs.); gas $0.85 
per 1 ,000 cu. ft. ; and kerosene So. 1 2 per gallon". 
•>-' It is not surprising to find that the cost of starting and main- 
taining the necessary fire in the coal range exceeds in each case 
the cost by any other method of preparation. This is due to the 
impossibility of confining and controlling the heat. When the 
correct temperature was secured for each single process there 
was ample space and heat in excess to do miuch more at the same 
time. This emphasizes the economy of the coal range when 
many processes may be carried on at once, as well as the waste- 
fulness of maintaining the fire for a single or simple preparation. 

This is further illustrated by a second study in which a dinner 
was prepared by each of the first three methods. The menu con- 
sisted of stock soup with tapioca ; roast beef; browned potatoes; 
spinach; cranberry jelly; and bread pudding with meringue. 
The results are summarized in the following table: 

Comparative Cost of Cookin'g a Dinner. 



Kind of Stove Used. 



Coal Range . 
Gas range . . . 

Aladdin oven 



Fuel Consumed. 



Coke 2 lbs., 12 oz. 
Coal 13 lbs., 4 oz. 
Gas , 27 ft. 

as( soup ^J 12.41 It 
Kerosene . ,. i lb., 3 oz. ) ,, 

-rr /for cookmex / — 2 lUb., 1 OZ 

Kerosene, ( soup J140Z. ) 



1=39,41 ft. 



Cost. 



din comparing these results with those obtained by Miss Rinaker (p. 409) the great 
difference in the prices paid for coal should be noted. See also page 454- 



402 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



Here the expense is more nearly uniform. It will be noted 
that the cost of preparing the soup stock is not included as an 
extra expense with the coal range since there was ample heat 
and space to have prepared that with the same fire. It is 
legitimately added as an extra item to the cost of preparation in 
the other two cases, since it requires an extra burner in the case of 
the gas and the oven of the Aladdin oven was so filled with the 
other dishes to be prepared that there was no room for it at the 
same time. 

With the original pans designed for the oven the space is more 
perfectly utilized than with the other household dishes, so that 
with those it might be possible to eliminate this additional cost. 

Relative cost of fuel with low priced and higher priced meats. — 
One frequently hears the statement that if one is using gas as a 
fuel it is not economical to buy cheap cuts of meat which require 
long cooking, since the cost of fuel to prepare more than counter- 
balances the difference in price between such meats and those 
higher in price. The following table shows this to be erroneous, 
if the amount of fuel is intelHgently regulated. The large 
amount of gas consumed in the short process, because of the more 
intense heat required, is nearly equal to that consumed in the 
longer process, provided the supply of gas is limited to the small 
amount necessary and desirable for the proper preparation of the 
cheaper cuts. 

Comparative Cost of Cooking Differext Meats. 



Kinds of Meat. 



Amount. 



Cost i Ti™^ 
Cooked. 



Porter house steak (serve 5 people) . . 
Rib roa.st (4th rib) (serve 8 people) . 

Stew (Beef, round) 

Beef, corned (rolled brisket) (serve 

12 people) 

Pot roast (shoulder) (.serve 1 2 people) 



2 lbs. 8 oz. 
2 lbs., 6 oz 
2 lbs. 

■\ lbs. 4 oz. 
4 lbs. 



Cts. 

75 
5Q 
28 

52 
52 



Hours. 
0.2 



Gas 
Con- 
sumed. 



Cost 

of 
Gas. 



Cu. Ft. Cts. 

13. iS 1. 12 

U I 2.8 

25.26 J 2.14 



45-42 
45-42 



3-83 
3-83 



The difference in cost of these meats and the number which 
each would serve should be considered together with the cost of 
fuel. 

Tests With Careful and Careless Regulation of Burners. — The 
amount of gas consumed by a careful regulation of the supply as 



1909] A Study of Household Expenditures 



403 



compared with a careless use can be easily estimated from the 
following study. In this it was found that to consume one 
cubic foot of gas. there was required with 2 oven burners wide 
open. I min.; i oven burner wide open, 2 min.; and i oven 
burner about one-half open, 3 min. On the top of the stove, one 
cubic foot of gas was consumed by the double jet wide open in 
2 min.; by the inner jet wide open in 4^ min.; by the burner 
at simmering height in 29 min.; and by the burner at just 
boiling height in 15 to 19 min. From this it is seen that the con- 
sumption necessary, for instance, to prepare meats like stew, pot 
roast, corned beef and to cook vegetables should not exceed i 
foot in 15 to 19 minutes, while the frequent habit of turning the 
gas on fully for such cooking requires i foot in 4 to 5 minutes. 

The desirable height of burners to give the amount necessary 
to maintain correct temperatures for the different processes of 
cooking is difficult to describe, but it is well worth the use of a ther- 
mometer to determine. Much less is required than is usually used, 
though this would result in a better product and smaller expense. 

A very satisfactory means of economizing in the use of gas, 
especially with a small family, is by making use of a small oven 
set on the top of the stove. The economy in the space to be 
heated and in radiation of heat makes a marked difference in the 
amount of gas consumed. With an asbestos mat fitted into the 
low^er part most foods can be very satisfactorily prepared in this 
way. Tests were made with a small sized oven, over one 
burner. This required i foot of gas in 16 minutes to maintain 
a temperature of 165° and i foot in 15 minutes for 195° in con- 
trast to the consumption in the larger oven of i foot in 3 minutes 
40 seconds for 165°, and i foot in 3 minutes for 195°, showing a 
consumption of five times as much gas by the larger oven. 

Tests With a Fireless Cooker. — The results obtained with a 
fireless cooker are summarized in the following table. In making 
use of a fireless cooker the only expense for fuel is, of course, that 
necessary to start the process of cooking before a food is put 
into the cooker. It is desirable to vary this somewhat according 
to the nature of the food to be cooked, that the heat may better 
penetrate. 

The foods cooked by this method were uniformly well cooked, 
quite equal to those cooked by the other methods, and in some 
cases, as the beets and ham, still better. 



404 



The Journal of Home Economics 
Results With the Fireless Cooker. 



[December 



Kind of Food. 


Amount. 


Time on Gas Range. 


Fuel Consumed. | Cost. 

i 


Rolled oats 

Rice, boiled 

Bet'ts 


2 cupsa (dry) 
2 cupsa (drv^ 
6 

2 

Slbs. 
2 lbs. 


Minutes. 

5 

5 

15 

lO 

30 
15 


Cu. Ft. Cis. 
0.2 0.017 
0.2 0.017 

1 ' 0.085 
0.67 i 0.056 

2 i 0.17 

I : 0.085 


Lima beans 

Ham 


Stew (Lamb) 



oBefore adding water. 

The cost is, of course, decidedly low. At the same time it is 
worthy of consideration that only a limited number 01 dishes 
can be prepared in this way, since only those can be satisfactorily 
prepared which allow of liquid either to cover, as in boiling, or to 
surround, as in steaming. Since the economy of fuel is trifling in 
a single case one should be assured that the opportunities for its 
use would be considerable, to warrant the purchase of a cooker at 
a cost of $10 to $15. If, however, one makes use of a home- 
constructed cooker, as may easily be done, the expense is merely 
for close granite-ware receptacles for the food and for the neces- 
sary material. A very satisfactory cooker may be made wnth an 
old trunk filled with hay pillows. 



2 . Purchase of Food-Supplies 

In connection with the purchase of food supplies the present 
study has concerned itself with a consideration of: (a) The 
quantity of any supply desirable to purchase at one time; (b) 
buying in bulk or in packages; and (c) the value of different 
styles of package goods. 

Quantity of Food-Supply at a Single Purchase. — The problem of 
the quantity of any supply which one may advantageously 
purchase at one time resolves itself into the questions of the 
money profit, and the extent to which it is possible to store or 
use a considerable supply. In seeking an answer to the first 
of these one finds interesting diversity of conditions, although in 
general, it is quite evident that at the present time less is saved 
by increasing the quantity purchased than formerly. Fewer 
merchants offer such inducements as "ten cents each, three for a 
quarter." Competition has reduced the margin of profits for 



1909] A Study of Household Expenditures 405 

the retail dealer so that he has less range of price. He has 
adapted himself to the demand for small orders and frequent 
deliveries. There is a slight gain, usually, in such package goods 
as one can get by the dozen or even a fraction of a dozen. A 
more marked gain is possible when the amount purchased can be 
made large enough to strike out entirely the retail dealer with his 
profits and purchase of a wholesale dealer, when possible, or at 
practically wholesale prices. The individual housekeeper with 
average family can avail herself of this method at best in the 
case of only a limited number of supplies. 

The present limitations in storage facilities are too well-known 
to the majority of housekeepers to need setting forth. All 
additional space means, to apartment dwellers, increased m.onthy 
rent, and suitable temperature for the storage of many supplies 
is impossible. This renders some advantageous purchases out of 
the question. Potatoes at 1.6 cents per pound by the bushel in 
contrast to 2 cents per pound in small quantity so deteriorate un- 
der unfavorable conditions as more than to offset the gain in 
buying the larger quantity. This holds true of other fresh 
vegetables and fruits. 

It may, however, be questioned, we believe, whether we do not 
adjust ourselves too complacentl}^ to this condition and so over- 
look possible advantages which careful attention may discover 
as real and possible. There are considerable differences in 
some instances, a knowledge of which would mxaterially aid in 
reducing expenses. The different sizes of olive oil cans, for 
instance, occupy practically the same space, while the reduction 
in cost for the larger amount is worth considering. Thus a i 
quart can costs So. 6 5 and a 2 quart can only Si. 15. The decrease 
is not always proportionate to size. For instance, in three 
sizes of peanut butter, costing 10, 20 and 30 cents, the weight of 
the contents were for the lo-cent jar, 96.7 gms. ; for the 20-cent 
jar 197.5 gms., and for the 30-cent jar 404.4 gms. so that while the 
prices were in the ratio of i :2 .'3 the ratios of the weights of the 
contents were 1:2.04:4.18. This showed practically no ad- 
vantage in the medium sized over the smaller amount, but a gain 
of twenty-five per cent in the largest sized jar. Of course this 
presupposes sufficient need of any product to warrant its pur- 
chase in large amount and such control of its use as to prevent 
wastefulness. 



4o6 The Journal of Home Econofnics [December 

Bulk vs. Package Purchases.— When we compare the purchase 
of food suppHes in bulk or in package we recognize at once the fact 
that packages are a more convenient and more sanitary form. 
Still, we do not always realize the price we pay for the difference. 
By making use of the package form the producer has found an 
ingenious and successful opportunity to cover the enormous 
expense arising from competition and advertising. The burden 
of this expense is eventually borne by the consumer, through scant 
measure, inferior quality or higher price. There is no doubt, 
for example, that the largest part of the 1 5 cents paid for a package 
of prepared cereal is the cost of advertising. This increase in 
cost represents no increase in nutriti^•e value. Some labor and 
skill are involved, and some cost in fuel to prepare might be 
legitimately added, perhaps, to the cost of the uncooked forms, 
but this would be but a slight increase (see table on gas consump- 
tion) . The increase is largely for advertising a process or mani- 
pulation, to answer the demand for novelty products, plain rice 
and corn meal mush having fallen under the ban as too 
"common," or troublesome. 

It is easy to see the rate of increase in comparing the cost of the 
few cereals now available in bulk with some of the package 
products. Thus, rice in bulk, costs 8 to 10 cents per pound and 
the puffed rice 10 cents per package of 163.3 gms., which is at 
the rate of 27 cents per pound. Corn meal costs 2K cents per 
pound, but corn flakes sell for 10 cents per package of 3 15.3 gms., 
or 14.3 cents per pound, so that only careful discrimination can 
discover true value. A further comparison of prices is found in 
the following illustrations : 

A can containing 132.5 gms. of dried beef and costing 1 5 cents, 
or at the rate of 5 1 cents per pound was inferior in quality to that 
selling in the same market at the time for 35 cents per pound. 
Sliced bacon was selling in glass jars containing 268.3 g^^s. at 
28 cents per jar, or at the rate of 47 cents per pound. In bulk 
the same day, a product superior in quality could be obtained for 
25 cents per pound, and a pasteboard package of bacon was also 
on sale equal in iveight and quality to that purchased in bulk. 

The following table shows the comparative cost of different 
commercial brands of gelatine and sheet gelatine. In this case 
the strength and quality varied somewhat in favor of the higher 
priced, although not commensurately. 



1909] .4 Study of Household Expenditures 407 

Comparative Cost of Proprietary axd Sheet Gelati.ves. 



Kind of Gelatine. ^p!'1^' °*" tP°f °^ I Weight of Cost per 

Package. Package. Gelatine. ] Pound. 



c— 

K— 

K— e ; ; ■ ■ 

p. R 

Sheet Gelatine I 453.5 




Gms. 


Cts. 


44-2 


126 


33-5 


195 


42.2 


129 


54-3 


107 




87 



Filled dates in a glass jar selling at 25 cents consisted of 38 
dates, weighing 239.2 gms., 7.8 gms. of walnut meats, 7.4 gms. of 
pecan meats, and 8.9 gms. of alm.ond meats. In bulk, 38 dates, 
weighing 236.4 gms. cost (12 cents per pound) 7.8 cents; 7.8 
gms. walnut meats at 60 c per pound cost i cent; 7.4 gms. pecan 
meats at 60c per pound cost 0.9 cents and 8.9 gms. almond meats 
at 60c per pound cost i.i cents, making the total cost 10.8 cents. 
With corned beef hash. 187.2 gms. cost 20 cents or at the rate of 
48 cents per pound. This expense would be in most homes a 
case of paying for "left-overs," since few thrifty housekeepers 
would buy fresh materials for this particular product. Provided 
one should, the comparative cost, as nearly as we could judge of 
the proportions in its composition, would be about 9.3 cents for 
§ lb. corned beef at 14 cents per pound, and 0.6 cents for ^ lb. 
potatoes at 2 cents per pound, a total per pound of 9.9 cents. 

In some cases advantage seems to be taken through the style 
of package. Perhaps the most striking example is found in the 
different forms in which olive oil is offered. In no case in the 
samples examined did the bottles of oil contain the amount ex- 
pected, while all the cans of oil tested contained uniformly full 
measure. What would be thought of as a half-pint bottle 
contained a scant three fourths cup oil, or 143. i gms.; a "pint" 
bottle contained one andone half cups oil, or 3 15 gms.; a "quart" 
bottle a scant two and two thirds cup, or 550 gms. and another 
"quart" bottle three and one half cups, or 73 5 gms. On the other 
hand two quart cans contained 806.1 gms. and 840 gms..' respec- 
tively. 

From these illustrations we see how impossible it is for any 
general rules to prevail, by observance of which the most suc- 
cessful purchasing may be accomplished. The infinite variety 



4o8 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

of forms on the market makes a classified study of their merits 
impossible. Such a list could never be complete while the mush- 
room growth of the present time brings new forms almost daily. 
It is hoped, however, that the studies thus outlined may sug- 
gest the direction in which attention may profitably be turned 
by the housekeeper who aspires to secure the best results from 
her expenditures in the direction of food supply and its prepara- 
tion. 

There is a further very important factor which has not been 
included in this study which is, nevertheless, closely connected 
with many of the points discussed. This is the question of the 
time and labor involved. An increasing number of house- 
keepers have, either through necessity or choice, demands upon 
their time and strength which makes this an important considera- 
tion. To what extent may one be justified in a larger expendi- 
ture which results in a liberating of thought and energy for other 
things]* This should be determined for each individual by a 
consideration of the possible usefulness of the tim.e liberated to- 
gether with a knowledge of the degree of difference in expense 
and in the quality of what may be purchased ready-prepared 
compared with the home product. It is to be regretted that 
little accurate investigation has yet been made in this direction. 
The study made by Miss Bigelow'" under the direction of The 
Boston Branch of The Association of Collegiate Alumnae is a 
valuable contribution and suggestive of much more which might 
profitably be studied. 



aMass. Bur. Statistics of Labor. Bui. 19 (1901). p 67. 



FUELS AND THEIR UTILIZATION IN THE PROCE.SSES 

OF COOKING.^ 

Harriet Beckwith Ri.vaker. 

Fuels used to produce heat for cooking purposes can be com- 
pared first under the heads of kindling temperature, rate of com- 
bustion, efficiency, ease of manipulation, disposal of by-products 
of combustion, and cost. If the kindhng temperature be too 
low the element of danger from explosion is great, incurring 
great fire risk and menacing personal safety. If the kindling 
point is high a considerable time may be required to reach a 
suitable temperature for cooking. The rate of combustion must 
be considered, together with the possibility of controlling the 
process in order that the heat given ofif may be utilized to good 
advantage. A study of the heating efficiency is m.ade to deter- 
mine whether this is an economical proportion to the amount of 
fuel consumied and the labor required for the operation. The 
question of manipulation must be taken up. The saving of time 
as well as of labor is of importance to the housekeeper.. A fuel 
may possess a good kindling temperature, high heating efficiency, 
and an easily controlled rate of combustion, and yet be so 
inconvenient of manipulation, or yield such troublesome bv-prod- 
ucts of combustion that it ranks low in desirability. 

Further, the cost of the fuel used must be considered, not only 
as regards the price paid for the fuel itself, but the cost of the 
equipment necessary to handle it properly, as well as the whole 
cost in proportion to the efficiency obtained. While the cost 
price of a given fuel may vary in different locations, due to 
natural distribution of fuels, the same general conditions as to 
cost of equipment are likely to be fairly comparable. 

Discussion of Fuels in General. — The fuels which are generally 
considered available for cooking processes are anthracite and 
bituminous coal ; hard and soft wood ; coal oil or kerosene and 
gasoline; natural and artificial gas; and electricity. A discus- 
sion of these with regard to the points mentioned as essential to a 
good fuel for cooking purposes will serve to point out their 
relative desirability. 



aThis is a condensation of a portion of a thesis submitted in partial fulfillinent of the 
requirements for the Degree of Master of .\rts in Household Science in The Graduate 
School of the University ot Illinois, 1909. 

409 



4IO 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



The comparison of various grades of coal as given in the follow- 
ing table" is interesting. 



Comparative Composition- of Various G 


rades of Co 


AL. 


Kind of Coal. 


Cokeor 
Fixed Carbon. 


Volatile 
Gases. 


Moisture. 


Ash. 


Bituminous . 


Per cent. 
40-75 
70-80 
80-go 
85-93 


Per cent. 

20-50 

10-20 

5-10 

3- 6 


Per cent. 
3-10 
I- 5 
I- 3 
I- 1 


Per cent. 
2-10 


Semi-bituminous 

Semi-anthracite 

Anthracite 


4-10 

3- 5 
3- 5 







Thus anthracite coal, with its extremely high kindling tempera- 
ture, as indicated by the high percentage of carbon and small 
amount of volatile gases, may be considered an undesirable fuel 
in this connection, for although the heating efficiency is high and 
a very small amount of ash is formed, the difficulty of burning 
this coal in any but a specially constructed fire box, and its slow 
rate of combustion, as well as its scarcity and relatively high 
price, make its use disadvantageous. 

Bituminous, or "soft" coal on the other hand is widely used as 
a kitchen fuel. The supply is widely distributed and its cost 
comparatively low. Having a much lower ignition point than 
that of anthracite or "hard" coal, its heat is much more readily 
available. There is however, a high percentage of waste pro- 
ducts — cinders, smoke and soot — so that it is considered by 
housekeepers a "dirty" fuel. Owing to its rapid rate of 
combustion more coal must frequently be added to the fire, while 
but a small amount of the heat given of! can be utilized for cook- 
ing purposes, the remainder escaping up the chimney or heating 
the air of the room. AV. R. Cooper states before the British 
Institute of Electrical Engineers that "Cooking in the ordinary 
kitchen range might almost be said to be a by-product of wasted 
heat" — an apt setting forth of the situation. 

Wood, with from 20 to 30 percent fixed carbon, 55 to 65 per- 
cent volatile gases, 15 to 20 percent moisture and i to 3 percent 
ash, has been extensively used as kitchen fuel. It has a good 
kindling point, but the rate of combustion is rapid and not easily 
controlled, and while this fuel is a good source of quick heat, it 



aThe Elements of Physical Science, by F. D. Barber. 



1909] Fuels: Utilization in Cooking 411 

requires constant replenishing. The percentage of ash and smoke 
produced is lo\v. However, owing to the comparatively limited 
supply and the questionable economy of using as fuel a product 
having so many other important uses, the use of wood as fuel is 
decreasing. 

Both kerosene and gasoline are used quite commonly as fuels, 
there being little heat wasted, the rate of combustion easily con- 
trolled and but small amounts of waste products formed. How- 
ever, especially in the case of gasoline, with its extremely low 
flashing point, there is great danger of explosion unless the 
operator has a good understanding of the principles involved in 
its use, and the apparatus for its combustion is carefully con- 
structed. There are on the market good so-called "self- 
generating" stoves, as well as good kerosene stoves, the cost of 
manipulation being low in both cases. 

Natural gas, underlying certain regions and supplied at a very 
low cost, combines some of the most desirable characteristics of 
a fuel. With a low kindling point, high heating efficiency, 
rate of combustion entirely under control, clean and convenient, 
it is quite ideal. However, gas wells are found in but limited 
regions, and outside of these districts natural gas cannot be 
supplied at any price. It may be added that natural gas, being 
usually devoid of characteristic odor, if escaping may cause 
danger from asph^'xiation or explosion. 

Artificial gas is more generally used, having all the advantages 
of natural gas. save that of cost, and being available in all parts 
of the country where coal is used. Since one ton of good gas coal 
produces, roughly speaking. 10.000 cubic feet of gas with 1400 
pounds of coke, 120 pounds of coal tar and considerable ammonia 
as salable by-products it would seem that artificial gas could 
be put on the market at a price which would com.pare favorably 
with that of coal. 

Electricity, which has only recently been made use of in cook- 
ing processes, presents some unusual advantages to the house- 
keeper. Being available from the moment the switch is turned 
there is the minimum amount of labor required to secure the 
heating efficiency. There is also little trouble in its manipulation, 
no appreciable loss of heat in the room, and no by-products of 
heat generation. The high cost of power and of the cooking 
utensils appears to be the greatest factors in preventing its more 



412 T}te Journal of Home Economics [December 

general adoption. Mr. Cooper in the address previously referred 
to says, "It seems strange that the coal so wastefuUy used in the 
kitchen range cannot be converted into electricity in the power 
station and be transmitted to an electrical stove in the kitchen 
with a saving of cost of the house-holder." 

Experimental Studies of Fuels. — The fuels selected for study were 
bituminous coal, artificial gas, and electricity. The basis of 
comparison was the cooking of typical meals for a day, viz. 
breakfast, luncheon and dinner, for a family of four persons. 
These meals were prepared with each of the fuels considered. 
The menus used were as follows : 

Breakfast. — Fruit; pearls of wheat; cream; broiled bacon; 
baking powder biscuit; coffee. 

Luncheon. — Meat croquettes; peas (canned); Parkerhouse 
rolls; baked apples; sponge cake; cocoa. 

Dinner. — Tomato soup; wafers; roast beef; brown potatoes; 
scalloped corn ; fresh bread; lettuce salad with cooked dressing; 
fruit short cake ; coffee. 

Tests with Coal. — The coal used is known to the trade as 
"Pocahontas," being a West Virginia bituininous coal and having 
the following composition as supplied by S. W. Parr, Professor of 
Applied Chemistry in the University of Illinois: Ash, 5.26 percent; 
moisture, o. 56 percent ; volatile matter, 1 6. 50 percent ; fixed carbon, 
77.68 percent; sulphur, 0.52 percent; and calories per kilo, 8.288. 

All coal and kindling used were v/eighed. The meals were 
served at 8:00 a. m., 12:30 p. m. and 6:00 p. m. The stove drafts 
were closed when cooking was not in progress. 

The range used was of medium price and in excellent condi- 
tion. Diiificulty was experienced in keeping uniform tempera- 
tures for baking. The oven thermometer provided with the 
range was found to be inaccurate, so a chemical thermometer in 
a metal case was placed in the oven. Heat was, however, lost in 
opening the oven door to read this thermomxeter. 

While using the range the room temperature was greatly raised, 
a thermometer in an adjoining room without range fire register- 
ing i7°C in the m.orning when this kitchen showed 2^%°C In 
the afternoon, during bread baking, the temperatures of the two 
rooms were 22° and 35° respectively. On days when the range 
was not in use no greater difference than one degree was observed 
in the temperatures of the two rooms. 



1909] Fuels: Utilization in Cooking 413 

It should be noted that while the fire was maintained for 
cooking purposes for eleven hours, during the first three hours 
of use 12^ pounds or 37.3 percent of the total fuel consumed, 
was used, although by far the largest amount of cooking was done 
after this time. From this it would appear that the amount of 
fuel used in building the fire was out of proportion to the amount 
used later. 

In further substantiation of this point another test was made, 
using the same menu as before. One hour was required to heat the 
oven to baking temperature, and while this appears excessive, 
repeated experiments gave similar results, unless a large amount 
of oil and wood was used as kindling. 

While there was much heat wasted by diffusion and radiation 
into the room, and by draft into the chimney, there was con- 
siderable stove space which might have been utilized had there 
been more food to be prepared. Moreover, with the coal range 
there is the utilization of heat otherwise wanted in heating the 
water supply of the house. 

The quality of the food prepared was uniformly good, but the 
process may be characterized as hard, since constant watching 
was necessary in order to control, even roughly, the temiperature, 
while the rise in room temperature made the work unpleasant. 

The cost of the range and utensils necessary for cooking the 
articles specified was estimated as approximately $48.74. 

Tests with Gas. — These tests were with coal gas. which was 
measured by means of a standard meter. A range, ha\-ing three 
medium burners, one large burner and on'- simmering burner, also 
a large oven with broiler underneath, was used. 

The time required to consume one cubic foot of gas by the 
various burners turned on at full capacity at ordinary pressure 
was as follows : Large burner, 2^ min. ; medium burner, 3 >2 min. ; 
sirhmering burner. 16 min.; one oven burner. 3 min.. and both 
oven burners, i^ rnin. 

Fifteen minutes were required using both oven burners at full 
capacity to raise the temperature of the oven from 25° to 2 2 5°C, 
consuming thereby 10 cu. ft. of gas. By means of a chemical 
thermometer suspended through the top of the oven, temperature 
readings could be taken without opening the door. Owing to 
loose construction and imperfect insulation, there was a consider- 
able radiation of heat, causing a rise of 4°C in the temperature 



414 The Journal of Home Econojnics [December 

of the room near the range. . Since the range was hooded there 
was no evidence of the presence of combustion products. 

The total amount of gas consumed during the day, 147.32 cu. 
ft., may seem an excessive amount, but it should be remembered 
that the meals prepared do not represent an average daily 
consumption of gas, since an unusual amount of baking was 
done. Furthermore, it should be stated that 124.92 cu. ft. or 
84.7 percent of the total amount of gas consumed was used in 
heating the oven. It would appear then of great importance 
that ovens be so constructed that a higher percentage of the 
heat generated might be conserved, and, in consequence, the 
amount required to maintain the high temperature be reduced to 
the minimum. 

The use of gas as fuel was satisfactory from the standpoint of 
ease of manipulation, control of the rate of combustion, and 
quality of the food. "While considerable heat was lost by 
diffusion the rise in room temperature was not sufficient to be 
oppressive, although the fact that the range was hooded may be 
in part responsible for this condition. 

The estimated cost of equipment and utensils was $33.99. 

Tests with Electricity. — The apparatus used for this experiment 
was made up of the following pieces : 

(a) An oven having the heating element inbedded in the plates 
of the top and bottom of the oven. The oven was well insulated 
there being little heat radiated from it. For convenience a door 
with double glass pane was substituted for the metal door pro- 
vided, and a small incandescent lamp was put inside the oven, 
making it possible to observe the baking processes without 
opening the door. A chemical thermometer inserted through 
the top of the oven made it possible to note the temperature of 
the oven without opening the door. 

(b) A stove, or hot plate, consisting of a cast iron disk, 6 inches 
in diameter, having the heating element embedded in a non- 
conducting compound, directly under the plate. 

(c) A stove, siinilar in construction to the one just described, 
equipped with a double boiler, having an earthenware inner 
kettle. The double boiler locked to the stove, securing the close 
contact. The switch was so arranged that the amount of current 
used could be regulated three degrees: low, medium and high 
being available. 



1909] Fuels Utilization in Cooking 415 

(d) A coffee percolator, having the heating element inside 
the base. 

(e) A broiler of fluted cast iron. This has three heats, as in (c). 

(f) A combination water heater, steamer and double boiler, 
having the heating element inside the base, as in the percolator. 
This has three heats. 

Considerable time was reqmred and energy expended in heat- 
ing the apparatus before cooking processes began, especially in 
the case of the oven, which required from 30 to 35 minutes to 
reach a temperature of 2 2 5°C. Here as in the experiment with 
gas, a high percentage of the total energy required (in this case 
78.9%) was used in oven cooking. All the apparatus seemed to 
hold the heat well, it being possible to turn off the current from 
five to ten minutes be fore the cooking was completed. 

Much has been said in articles written with a view toward 
popularizing the adoption of electricity for cooking, concerning 
"the excellence of engineering design" and "great ingenuity" 
displayed in the construction of electrical cooking utensils. 
Although the utensils used in these experiments were selected as 
the best types obtainable they were uniformly hea\y and hard to 
handle, one piece, the broiler, weighing 12.5 pounds. The lower 
part of the double boiler was evidently constructed with no 
regard to the fact that it would some day require washing, and 
its earthenware inner kettle, while attractive in appearance, 
was suitable for cooking only at a very low temperature, since its 
contents could not be raised above 80° C. even by prolonged 
heating. The seams of the water heater were not water tight, 
outside, and in washing, water gained entrance to the heat coils, 
causing some trouble. Closeness of contact seems absolutely 
necessary in order to secure any great amount of efficiency, so 
stoves with specially constructed kettles which lock upon them 
seemed most satisfactory. 

The results obtained from cooking by means of electricity were 
uniformly good, the temperature being remarkably even, and 
easily maintained. Since there is no flame, smoke, soot or ashes, 
there is a great saving in labor, no vitiation of the atmosphere 
and no appreciable rise in room temperature. The voltage 
used is low, no volts being usually employed, so there is little 
dange from shock. 

The cost of installation and utensils is estimated as Si 15.27. 



41 6 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



It is here apparent that the cost of utensils necessary for 
electrical cooking is extremely high, being almost prohibitive to 
families of moderate means. An added cost is probable in 
installing wiring of sufficient strength to carry safely the current 
required for a cooking circuit. 

Discussion of results. — A comparison of the results as shown in 
the data may now be made. 

In regard to the time of cooking the following results are noted: 



Comparative Time Required for Cooking with Coal Gas, and 

Electricity. 



Article. 



Coal. 



Gas. 



Electricity. 



Breakfast — 

Cereal 

Bacon 

Biscuits and apples 

Coffee 

Total 

Lunch — 

Sponge cake 

Croquettes 

Peas 

Cocoa 

Rolls 

Total 

Dinner — 

Bread 

Roast 

CofTee 

Dressing 

Soup 

Total 

Total 



Min. 
70 

7 
71 

7 

a 



55 
30 
15 
40 

14 
a 



45 
100 

7 
8 

30 



Min. 

65 

7 

35 

13 

120 



52 

15 
2.25 



30 
107-35 



67 
87 

13 
8 

30 

205 

430 



Min. 

81. 5 

9 

70 

15 

175-5 



65-75 
34 
1 1 

41-5 
49 
201.25 



70 
144-25 

15 
20 

44-5 
29375 
670.5 



In attempting to draw general conclusions from these data, a 
number of factors must be borne in mind. The time of cooking 
as tabulated is estimated from the time the first heat is generated 
until its use is discontinued except that in the case of the coal 
range, in which a fire was maintained throughout the day, only the 
breakfast data could be so computed, and the figures recorded for 
the later operations represent the time during which the article to 
be cooked was in or on the stove. Therefore, the coal data, as 
regards specific time of cooking, are not comparable with those 



oNot computed. See explanation below. 



1909] 



Ftiels: Utilization in Cooking 



417 



of either gas or electricity. It should also be noted that the 
total time recorded above is made up, in the gas and electricity 
data, by the addition of the time required to cook each separate 
article, even though several things were in process of cooking 
at the same time. 

Similar tables might be compiled pointing out in detail the 
comparative amounts of fuel used, and the cost of each operation. 
Instead it has been thought better to combine the results in 
tabulated form as follows : 



Comparative Economy ix 


Cooking with Coal 


, Gas and Electricity. 




COAL. 


GAS. 


ELECTRICITY. 




Time. 


Amount i 
of Fuel., Cost. 

1 


Time. 


Amount _, 
of Fuel. Cost. 


j 

T,._^ Amount of 
Time. F^ei 


Cost. 


Breakfast 
Lunch . . . 
Dinner. . . 
Total . . . 


Min. 
a 
a 
a 

663 


Lbs 
12.125 
6.625 

13-75 
32.50 


Cts. 

3-03 
1.65 

3-44 

8-13 


Min. 

120 

107-35 
205 

432.35 


C«. Ft. 1 Cts. 

32.3 ! 4-03 

43-43 5-42 

71.59 8.94 

147-32 18.39 


Min. 

175-5 
201.25 

293-75 
670.5 


Watt-hours. 
2295.6 
2683.45 

5028.475 
10007.6 


Cts. 
11.48 
13-42 
25-14 
50.00 



aFor the reasons explained above no estimate is attempted of the time required for the 
separate meals The total figure represents the entire time intervening from the lighting 
of the fire m the mommg till the completion of the cooking. "B"i-ing 

From this table it is concluded that electricity requires 
slightly more time than coal for the same operation, and both 
require approximately one and one half times as long as was 
needed with gas. 

As regards available efficiency for cooking, 32.5 pounds of coal 
equals 147-32 cu. ft. of gas and 10,007.6 watt hours of electricity. 
Considered from the standpoint of cost, gas at $1.25 per 1000 
cu. ft. is 2.26 times as expensive as coal at $5.00 a ton. 
Electricity at 5 cts. per watt hour is 6.16 times as expensive as 
coal, and 2.72 times as expensive as gas. At these same 
prices, therefore, $1.00 invested in coal would provide for the 
same amount of cooking as S2.26 invested in gas, or as S6.16 
invested in electrical current.^ 



;„^l° f".^^P*^2? a comparison of the results reported in this paper with those recorded 
in that of Miss Terrill immediately preceding, the diflFerence in local conditions as to price 
etc., should be carefully considered. See also p. 399. i-" P"t.e, 



CAKE MIXING. 

Mabel T. Wellman. 

A special class at the University of Chicago began some work on 
cake which started three of us to further experimentation for 
a quarter of the year, and finally left me to a quarter's work 
by myself. Our method was to use exact weighed amounts of 
ingredients. We used the standard three cups of fiour recipe, 
usually making one-fourth amounts, but occasionally repeating 
with the full amount as a check on results. The cakes were 
all baked in gas ovens with thermometers inserted so that we 
controlled temperatures exactly. 

A number of interesting results were obtained. First, we 
found that none of our utensils were standard or even uniform 
as measures. The average weight of whites and yolks of eggs we 
found as 30 and 20 gms. respectively, values which are of course 
well within the range on which the average data usually quoted 
are based. We also found that a cup of flour once-sifted might 
vary considerably in weight with the same person in repeated 
fillings, and easily 25 gms. when different people filled it. Of 
course, sifted and unsifted flour varied greatly, but there was not 
much lessening of the weight after the second sifting. The 
difference we found here suggested possible explanations of 
varying results with the same recipe in the hands of even fairly 
careful individuals. 

As a result of much weighing we adopted the following table 
of weight which was used during the second and third quarters' 
work: 

KITCHEN MEASURES EXPRESSED IN GRAMS. 

Measure Gms. Measure Gms. 

cup of water 237 i cup of flour (Swansdown) . . . roo 

" milk 244 I egg white 30 

sugar 210 I egg yolk 20 

" butter 227 I teaspoon baking powder 3 

flour (pastry) 100 i " cream of tartar .... 3.5 

The oven temperature adopted as a standard was i95°C 

Much that we did requires further experimentation before con- 
clusive results can be obtained, especially on the question of 
varying proportions. In some of the problems of mixing, how- 
ever, we felt reasonably sure of results. We found that while 
the cake was not so good if the butter and sugar were not thor- 

418 



^909] Cake Mixing 41 g 

oughly creamed, that in every case except in making pownd cake, 
the butter could be melted and beaten in before adding the white 
of egg. We would mix a cake, for example, in the following order : 
Take i K cups of sugar beaten into the yolks of four eggs ; 3 cups 
of flour with 3 teaspoonsful of baking powder added alternately 
with X cup of milk; K cup of melted butter beaten in thoroughly ; 
and the beaten whites of 4 eggs. Sometimes we dissolved part 
of the sugar in the milk. If only yolks were used, we kept the 
same order, adding the butter last. 

Cakes mixed in this way and baked beside cakes of the same 
proportions mixed in the conventional manner could not be told 
apart in appearance or taste after baking, although the batter 
differed in appearance before baking. 

Some further work made us believe that the whole question is 
one of getting the ingredients thoroughly mixed. The difficulty 
of putting everything in together before stirring seems to lie in 
this. One can see particles of egg in the baked result. Pound 
cake contains so little liquid — practically none except the egg — 
that possibly this accounts for the failure to succeed with melted 
butter. 

Some further work done at the university does not accord with 
Miss Watson's work as recently reported.'' Repeated experi- 
ments showed that melted butter could be used in mixing baking 
powder biscuits if due care was used to beat it in thoroughly; 
and such biscuit compared favorably both in texture and tender- 
ness. 

It is somewhat difficult to measure exactly the time saved by 
using melted butter in cake instead of creaming the butter with 
the sugar, for the time necessary for that process varies with the 
season, and with the amounts used; but it was found, on the 
average, to save half of the time consumed in mixing. 

aAnn. Rpt. Ontario Agl. Col. and Expt. Farm. 33, (1907), p. 244- abs in U S 
Dept. Agr. Farmers' Bui. 360, p. 32. ' ' ' 



THE CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

An English authority has recently stated that plum pudding is 
not the deadly combination it is commonly thought to be, but 
that it is a concentrated food containing both protein, fat and 
carbohydrates in abundance and so more fitted to serve as a 
meal than to be crowded in at the end of a hearty dinner. In 
other words, it is harmful because wrongly used rather than be- 
cause of any inherent qualities. Commenting on this, G. K. 
Chesterton, says in a recent issue of the Illustrated London News: 

"The doctors have now discovered that Christmas pudding is 
an exquisitely hygienic and harmless food. That is typical of all 
the developments of scientific thought in our day. Many proph- 
ets and righteous men, many thinkers and idealists, have 
wasted their lives in running after scientific truth. Never run 
after scientific truth. Stand where you are, and in a few years 
scientific truth will run after you. Continue to eat pork, and 
sooner or later the doctors will say that pork is the only food that 
is perfectly digestible. Continue to drink port, and sooner or 
later a man will arise in medical circles who will prove that port 
is the only certain safeguard against gout. The specialist may 
have told you to take your children to the seaside, but if you 
are only long enough in packing he will very likely have dis- 
covered that sea air is poison before you start. The best authori- 
ties may have told you (if your chest is weak) to make your bed 
in your back garden for a year. Thev may be telling you to grow 
tulips in your bedroom the next year. In fact, I did definitely 
see in a medical article the other day that the fresh-air cure ought 
to be given up, as fresh air was not so good a thing as had been 
supposed. The truth of the matter is, I suppose, that what a 
medical theorist has to do is almost exactly the same as what a 
social or historical theorist has to do ; he has to strike an average 
between an enormous number ol effects produced by one thing, 
all of them different effects, some of them contradictory effects. 
It is as difficult (I expect) to say whether the effect of sherry is 
good or bad as to say whether the effect of Napoleon was good or 
bad. Among these ordinary human things there is no such thing 
as the simple poison and the simple antidote. Napoleon was not 
a poison; he was a dangerous stimulant. WelHngton was not an 
antidote; he was a very dangerous substitute." 

420 



WILLIAM STITH. AN EARLY AMERICAN STUDENT OF 

NUTRITION. 

Among earlier American articles on nutrition the inaugural 
dissertation on digestion by William Stith of Virginia, who was 
graduated from the Medical Department of the University of 
Pennsylvania in 1821, deserves mention. Stith discusses diges- 
tion, the digestive apparatus, hunger and thirst, mastication and 
salivary solution, deglutition, digestion in the stomach, digestion 
in the duodeniim, and the action of the small intestines. 

His paper may be assumed to represent fairly the opinions 
which were generally held at the time he wrote. So far as can 
be learned his dissertation was never published. Through the 
courtesy of the University of Pennsylvania it has been possible 
to examine the original manuscript and make transcriptions. 
As yet it has not been possible to obtain additional biographical 
data regarding Dr. Stith. 

The title page reads as follows : 

"An Inaugural Dissertation on Digestion, Wm. Stith, 

Virginia. 
Admitted March i6th, 182 1." 

The introductory sections of the dissertation and quotations 
from the section on digestion in the stomach follow. 

OF digestion. 

By the term digestion we are to understand that function of 
assimilation, by which the various changes are produced, which 
extraneous substances undergo, when subjected to the action of 
the digestive apparatus; producing a compound eminently sub- 
servient to the growth and nourishment of the body. Owing 
to the changes of composition and decomposition that are 
continually going on in all living bodies, a disunion of their 
elements, an alteration and decomposition of the whole mass, 
constituting the body, would necessarily ensue, if not prevented 
through the medium of assimilation, which, consisting of the 
changes that the food undergoes when taken into the digestive 

421 



42 2 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

system, or digestion and chylification, of the changes that are 
wrought on the nutritive fluid, during its circulation through the 
body, or in other words, languification and secretion, and also of 
the lodgement and removal of its particles in almost every part 
of the body, constituting what are called nutrition and absorp- 
tion, serves the purpose of reproduction. This internal motion 
takes place to such a degree that the animal machine is entirely 
renewed in the course of several years. Experiments have been 
made by physiologists tending to ascertain the exact period, at 
which this renewal happens. Some have supposed that it hap- 
pens at the expiration of seven years; some in three years, and 
others have even gone so far as to assert that it takes place in the 
short space of fifty days; but these calculations are liable to great 
uncertainties and almost insuperable objections, occasioned by 
the different degrees of health, sickness, age, temperament, etc. 
Owing to this entire renovation, the human body has been very 
ingeniously compared to the famous ship, Argo, which, after her 
long and perilous voyage, contained not a particle of her original 
"materials." 

OF DIGESTION IN THE STOMACH. 

"The aliment, after having received the impression of mastica- 
tion and the saliva, is accumulated in the stomach; there to be 
influenced by changes still more important than those hitherto 
noticed ; but what these changes are, is yet undecided. 

"Before I proceed to speak of the processes, which are now 
generally supposed to effect digestion in the stomach, it may not 
be improper to mention the various theories, that have been 
advanced on the subject . * * * 

"Concoction is the first theory that was advanced to explain the 
phenomena of digestion. It is the theory of the ancients; but 
they did not mean by the term, to signify that heat is the 
sole cause of digestion; but that it is the principal agent; as 
the word itself imports. Certain it is that heat is essentially 
necessary to the due performance of digestion. This is shown 
by the experiments of Spallanzani, which prove, that the 
gastric juice, one of the principal agents of digestion, has no 
more effect than common water in dissolving alimentary sub- 
stances, when the temperature is below twenty -one degrees of 
Fahrenheit's thermometer; but on the contrary, that its activity 



1909] William Stith, Student of Nutrition 423 

is considerably increased, when the temperature is raised to 
thirty two degrees above the freezing point. Mr. John Hunter 
thinks that heat is not the immediate, but the remote cause of 
digestion; producing in the animal an increased activity of all 
its functions. Dr. Jenner speaks to the same purpose. * * * 

The next theory is Fermentation, which was invented by the 
chemists, who prosecuted it with such zeal, that at one time it 
was generally adopted ; but in the present reformed state of our 
science it has fallen into disrepute. The principal argument, on 
which it rests, is, that only those substances afford nourish- 
ment, which are capable of undergoing the process of fermen- 
tation. * * * It would seem that digestion and fermentation 
are directly opposed to each other, the one having for its object 
the nourishment and preservation of the body, whereas the 
other tends continually to its destruction. 

"The next theory that attracts our attention is Trituration. 
This is the invention of the mechanical philosophers, who, reason- 
ing from false analogy, compared the changes which the food 
undergoes in the gizzard of the fowl to those wrought by the 
stomach ; but the comparison is extermely improper, since the one 
viz., the gizzard is really the organ of mastication, and the other 
that of digestion. Drs. Stevens and Spallanzani performed 
experiments tending to prove that digestion is effected indepen- 
dently of trituration. To effect this purpose the one caused to 
be swallowed, and the other himself swallowed, small tubes 
containing digestible articles, when on examination, after they 
were expelled from the stomach, they were found to have under- 
gone digestion. Moreover, it is sufficiently known, that certain 
substances, as the seeds of various vegetables, etc., frequently 
pass through the digestive system without being triturated or 
•even materially altered. 

"Maceration is another theory that was proposed to explain the 
phenomena of digestion. It was the opinion of the illustrious 
Haller that the aliment in the stomach undergoes a slow degree 
of maceration, and that this is effected partly by the gastric 
juice, and partly by other secondary causes. The four-fold 
stomach of certain animals at first view appears to add great 
plausibility to this hypothesis, but by further examination we 
shall be led to believe that this structure is intended merely to 
detain the food for the purpose of producing some changes, 



42 4 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

similar to maceration, preparatory to the real digestive process. 

* * * Maceration is inadequate to the product of digestion, 
since it only softens and dissolves the alimentary mass without 
effecting any new compounds. 

' 'All these hypotheses being abandoned as insufficient to account 
for the phenomena of digestion, it was necessary that some other 
should be proposed; accordingly we find that the attention of 
physiologists was directed more particularly to the investigation 
of the gastric juice. This fluid, so curious and interesting in its 
properties, is secreted by the exhalent arteries ramifying on the 
internal surface of the stomach. 

"Its nature has been a matter of much dispute among physiolo- 
gists. Some have supposed it to be acid, and some alkaline; 
while others have believed it to be exclusively acid in some, and 
alkaline in other animals; but we are led by the experiments of 
Spallanzani, J. Hunter, and Dumas, to infer that it is neither 
exclusively acid nor alkaline in different animals, but nearly the 
same in all, though, from the resiilt of some of their experiments, 
they seem to think that it may be altered according to the 
nature and quality of the food on which the animal may feed. 
Thus they found that when vegetables were used it was 
decidedly acid, and on the contrary, when animal flesh was used, 
it exhibited alkaline properties. 

"It is powerfully antiseptic ; so much so that if substances in a 
state of putrefaction be taken into the stomach, that process will 
sometimes be entirely suspended; though Mr. Hunter denies that 
it possesses any such property; but says, that substances, when 
subjected to its action, are made to go through another process; 
thereby preventing their spontaneous changes from taking 
place. 

"The most important and interesting property of the gastric 
juice is its powerfully solvent quality. It is so powerful, that 
even the hardest substances can scarcely resist its action. It is 
truly astonishing to see its effects in some animals. In the dog, 
for instance, it dissolves, without difficulty, the hardest bones on 
which this animal sometimes feeds. Howsoever powerful the 
solvent quality of the gastric juice may be, it does not act on the 
stomach whilst vitality remains; but as soon as that departs, so 
soon does the stomach, then like other dead matter, yield to its 
influence. 



1909] William Stith, Student of Nutrition 425 

"The gastric juice in its effects has been compared to galvanism, 
and the parieties of the stomach to a galvanic battery; but all 
these experiments, and the opinions deduced from them must be 
greatly deficient, since they are performed independently of 
vitality, which, by its powerful influence produces effects that 
could not otherwise be produced. If it should be asked, why is 
digestion promoted by the application of galvanism to the 
stomach? it might be answered, that it does not produce this 
effect, from an identity of operation to the gastric fluid; but 
simply, like other stimulants, by increasing the activity of the 
stomach. 

"The present and most popular theory of digestion in the 
stomach ascribes it principally to a solution of the aliments 
by the gastric juice; by which the materials of the aliment are 
decomposed, and new compounds are formed, possessing properties 
totally different from the original. The changes w^hich are pro- 
duced by the gastric juice are probably purely chemical ; though 
the stomach cannot be considered as a vessel in which digestion 
is performed solely by chemical means; if so the product of 
digestion could be artificially obtained; but, on the contrary, it 
must be considered as a highly complicated function, dependent 
on several other auxiliary causes, such as animal heat, an 
internal motion of the aliment, somewhat resembling fermenta- 
tion, but being probably very different, the gradual contraction 
of the muscular fibres of the stomach, etc. The digestive process 
may , therefore , be said to consist of vital, chemical, and mechanical 
causes. Dr. Fordyce denies that any chemical effect is pro- 
duced on the aliment by the gastric juice; but thinks that the 
alimentary substances, which have in themselves all the elements 
of chyle, are, by the action of the stomach and other organs of 
digestion, decomposed and recombined in the form of a new 
substance. Whatever the action of the gastric juice may be, 
in producing digestion, certain it is that it has a tendency to 
coagulate alimentary substances. Accordingly we find that the 
first change, which the food generally undergoes in the stomach, 
is coagulation. 

"This takes place so uniformly that it would seem as if it were 
necessarily preparatory to digestion; nevertheless this process 
does not universally take place; water and alcohol, for instance, 
do not coagulate ; but previously to the passage of the food out 



426 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

of the stomach, this coagulation is dissolved to form that soft 
pultacious mass denominated chyme. The whole mass of food is 
not digested at the same time, but only that part which is in 
contact with the stomach. This part after having been con- 
verted into chyme, is, by the motion of the stomach, forced 
through the pylorus, when another stratum of the aliment comes 
in contact with the parietes of the stomach to be effected in like 
manner. Thus digestion proceeds from the circumference to 
the centre. The aliment remains in the stomach a longer or 
shorter time, according as it is more or less digestible; not a 
particle of it being suffered to escape unless thoroughly digested. 
"This office of preventing the passage of indigestible matter 
from the stomach is performed by the pylorus, which by its 
tender and elective sensibility yields only to the impression of the 
homogeneous chyme, to which by habit it has become perfectly 
accustomed; unless some indigestible substance be swallowed, 
which, by repeatedly coming in contact with the pylorus ac- 
customs it to its impression, and thus a passage is afforded. 
While digestion is going on in the stomach, if it be perfect, both 
of its orifices are accurately shut. There is also at this time an 
increased activity of the stomach, caused by the metastasis of 
the vital power, deserting partially the other parts of the body to 
concentrate itself in that which is the seat of the digestive process. 
In this manner we may be able to explain the cause of the deaths 
which so frequently happen in" convalescents, who indulge them- 
selves in eating articles of a nature too indigestible to yield to the 
feeble powers of their system^s; by which so considerable a por- 
tion of vitality, deserting the other parts of the body to pass to 
the stomach, leaves them in such a debilitated condition that it 
is beyond their power to react, and death follows as a necessary 
consequence. In this manner we may also explain why digestion 
is better performed in a state of rest than in a state of activity. 
If exercise be taken, that power which would otherwise be 
concentrated in the stomach for the purpose of increasing the 
activity of digestion, will be allotted to other organs for the dis- 
charge of their respective functions, and consequently digestion 
will not be so perfectly performed as it would, had not this 
power been thus distributed. On the same principle we may 
also account for the drowsiness which is generally felt a short 
time after meals. In the commencement of digestion a slight 
chill is generally perceived; the pulse becomes quicker and 



1909] William Stith, Student of Nutrition 427 

harder ; the stomach begins to act ; its fibres at first irregularly, 
but after a short time regularly. Those which are circular com- 
mence their contractions at the cardia and proceed to the pylorus; 
whilst those which are longitudinal act so as to approximate its 
two extremities; by which means the angle formed at the 
pylorus is somewhat overcome, thereby facilitating the passage 
of the food into the duodentun. It has been ascertained that 
digestion is better performed during sleep, when we lie on our 
right than on our left side. The cause of this has been attributed 
to the weight of the liver, pressing on the stomach when the 
left side is down. 

"But this mechanical theory is a very unsatisfactory one. 
Might it not be much better explained by attributing it to an 
easier passage of the food through the pylorus when we lie on the 
right side ? As the stomach empties itself the chill goes off and 
is succeeded by a degree of warmth, which increases the perspira- 
tion ; an effect then is produced somewhat similar to a paroxysm 
of fever. Digestion is considerably influenced by nervous action. 
If the eighth pair of nerves be tied or cut, digestion will be either 
imperfectly performed, or entirely suspended. Majendie of 
Paris thinks that the tying or cutting of the eighth pair of nerves 
does not influence digestion by acting immediately on the 
stomach but by suspending the function of the lungs. To 
evince this, he cut the eighth pair of nerves below the branch 
which supplies the lungs; when the result was that digestion was 
not materially interrupted ; but on the contrary, when the same 
nerve was divided above the branch which goes to the lungs, that 
digestion was entirely suspended. Passions of the mind, narcotic 
substances, or anything lessening the excitability of the stomach 
produce an effect somewhat similar." 

In the remainder of his paper Dr. Stith discusses digestion in 
the duodenum and other phases of digestion. The quotations 
given are sufficient to show how he treats his subject. 

That the University of Pennsylvania medical department paid 
considerable attention to nutrition in the earlier part of the 
nineteenth century is evident from an examination of the 
published list of titles of dissertations. The work of Stith, and 
of Caleb Tichnor and John R. Young which has been quoted at 
length in the earher numbers of this Journal, shows that this 
work was of high grade and real value. 



THE PROGRESS OF SANITATION WITH SPECIAL 

REFERENCE TO THE INFLUENCE OF PURE 

WATER AND AIR UPON THE HEALTH 

OF COMMUNITIES. 

By Geo. M. Kober, M.D., LL.D. 

Professor of Hygiene, School of Medicine, Georgetown University. 

Professor Finkelnburg of Bonn estimated some years ago 
that the average length of human Hfe in the sixteenth century 
was only between eighteen and twenty years. At the close of 
the eighteenth century it was a little over thirty years, while 
today it varies in different countries from less than twenty-five to 
more than fifty years. Longevity goes hand in hand with im- 
proved sanitation; the span of life since 1880 has been lengthened 
in civilized coimtries fully six years. 

No two factors have contributed so much to the general 
results as the improvement of the air we breathe and the water we 
drink. We have ample evidence that with the introduction of 
public water supplies and sewers the general mortality in numer- 
ous cities during the past fifty years has been reduced fully one- 
half, the good effects being especially shown by a marked de- 
crease in the number of deaths from typhoid fever, diarrheal 
diseases and consumption. The vital statistics of Great Britain 
furnish the proof and our experience with German and American 
cities confirms this conclusion. 

The death rate in the city of Berlin has been reduced from 32.9 
per 1000 in 1875 to 16.4 in 1904; in Munich from 41.6 in 1871 to 
18 in 1906, and in Washington from 28.08 in 1875 "to 19-25 in 1907. 

The death rate in the city of New York in 1804 was 28 per 
1,000; from 1850 to 1854 it was 38 per 1,000; while in 1906 in 
spite of the density of population it was 18.9 per 1,000, practi- 
cally a reduction of 50 per cent, which according to Walter F. 
Wilcox'^ of Cornell University, means a saving of something like 
46,000 lives each year in that city alone. 

The mortality in the registration area in the Uinted States 
has been reduced since 1890 from 19.6 to 16.2 per 1,000 in 1905. 
which means a saving of over 290,000 lives a year. 

oMontnly Bulletin N. Y. State Dept. of Health, March, 1908. 
428 



1909] The Progress of Sanitation 429 

It has long since been known that rivers are always purer near 
their source; the amount of impurities increases as we descend 
the stream, since the water courses are the natural drainage 
channels of the country and the wastes of human life and occupa- 
tions find their way into the streams. It is also well known that 
our large American rivers are the sewers and at the same time the 
source of water supply for nearly all the cities located on their 
banks. These cities show, moreover, a marked prevalence of 
typhoid fever, thus confirming what has been observed over and 
over again, that this disease, as also cholera, dysentery and 
diarrhoeal diseases can be carried from one town or city to 
another by means of inland waterways. The question is one of 
extreme interest even to the residents along the Great Lakes; we 
know that large cities like Buffalo, Erie, Cleveland, Detroit, and 
Milwaukee discharge their sewage into the Lakes, and we also 
know how Chicago and Cleveland suffered from typhoid fever 
visitations by contaminating their own water supplies. It is 
also a well-known fact that many of the river cities were obliged 
to resort to purification of their water supplies in order to arrest 
the ever increasing typhoid fever wave. 

Influence of Water Supplies upon Typhoid Fever Death Rates. — 
For the purpose of determining the influence of public water 
supplies on the typhoid fever death-rates in general, Mr. M. O. 
Leighton, Chief of the Water Resources Branch of the U. S. 
Geological Survey, very courteously complied with my request 
for a hst of the orincipal American cities with a population of 
over 30,000 classified according to their water supply. Dr. 
Cressy L. Wilbur, Chief Statistician of Vital Statistics, Bureau of 
the Census, with equal promptness and accuracy has computed 
the mean rate (not the average annual rate, which, however, 
differs only slightly for the five years 1902 to 1906), and has 
arranged them in a chart, a summary of which is as follows: 

Mean' Typhoid Fever Death Rate From 1902 to 1906. 

Ratio per 

100,000 of 

population. 

4 Cities using ground water from large wells 18. i 

18 Cities using impounded and conserved rivers or streams 18.5 

8 Cities using water from small protected lakes 19.3 

7 Cities using water from the Great Lakes 32.8 

5 Cities using both surface and underground water 45.7 

19 Cities using polluted river water 61. i 



43 o The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The Hygienic Value of Pure Water: Annual Cost of Typhoid 
Fever in the United States. — According to the Census of 1900 there 
were 35,379 deaths from typhoid fever during the census year 
throughout the United States; and based on an estimated 
mortality of 10 per cent it is within reason to assume a yearly 
prevalence of 353,790 cases of this disease. If we calculate the 
average cost for care, treatment and loss of work to be $300 and 
the average value of a human life at $5,000 we have a total loss in 
the United States of $283,032,000 from one of the so-called 
preventable diseases. Mr. George C. Whipple*^ presents some 
striking evidence to indicate that a loss of $10,000 for e\ery 
death from typhoid fever is a conservative estimate, in which 
case the decrease in the "vital assets" during the census year of 
1900, would amount to $353,790,000. Reduce the prevalence of 
the disease one half (which has been accomplished in parts of 
Europe and our own country) , and the question of the hygienic 
value of pure water will be answered. 

The Effect of Improved Water Supply on Typhoid Fever Death 
Rates. — The writer at the White House Conference presented 
charts prepared by Dr. Wilbur showing the general movement of 
typhoid fever in fourteen countries and cities since 1881, indicat- 
ing that the death rate from this disease has fallen from an 
average of 42.3 to 18. i per 100,000, a reduction of 54.3 per cent. 

He also presented a chart showing the effect of change in 
water supply in seven American cities viz., Lawrence, Lowell, 
Newark, Jersey City, Paterson, Albany and Binghamton. 
From this study we learn that the combined average annual 
death rate from typhoid fever in cities with a contaminated 
supply was 69.4 and that after the substitution of a pure supply 
it fell to 19.8 per 100,000; a reduction of 70.5 per cent. 

The Bulletin for the month of April, 1908, of the New Ydrk 
State Department of Health contains an interesting article show- 
ing that the death rate from typhoid fever in ten cities of that 
State has been reduced 53.4 per cent by improved water supplies. 

It may be urged that improved methods of medical treatment 
are responsible for a considerable reduction in the death rates 
from typhoid fever, but when we see such a striking change 
immediately after the installation of filtration plants as in the 



oThe Value of Pure Water, New York, 1905, p. 5. 



1909] Tlie Progress of Sanitation 431 

case of Albany, Lawrence, and also more recently in Cincinnati 
and Philadelphia, we are forced to the conclusion that water 
purification pla^-s the most important role by diminishing 
primarily the number of cases. It should be stated, however, 
that the effects are still more marked when combined with a 
good system of sewerage. The history of every sewered town 
shows a lessening of the typhoid death rate and that the typhoid 
rate is always higher in sections of the same city supplied with 
makeshifts. The writer in 1895 pointed out that typhoid fever 
prevailed in Washington in the rate of i to 8 1 of houses supplied 
with privies, and only i in 149 of those connected with sewers, 
and offered as the only reasonable explanation, that the sewers 
carry away the filth and germs that otherwise would contaminate 
the soil and ground water. Even if there were no wells these 
makeshifts are still a source of danger in so far as they favor the 
transmission of the infection by means of flies", nor can the 
possibility be ignored that the germs in leaky and overflowing 
boxes may reach the upper layer of the soil and with pulverized 
dust gain access to the system. 

The writer believes that about 80 per cent of the cases of 
typhoid fever are water and milk-borne and that about 20 per 
cent may be spread through the agency of flies, personal contact, 
the consumption of raw oysters and shell fish raised in sewage 
polluted waters, or the eating of strawberries, radishes, celery, 
lettuce and other vegetables and fruits which have been con- 
taminated with infected night soil. 

Otiier Waier-Borue Diseases. — What has been said of typhoid 
fever is equally true of other water-borne diseases like cholera, 
dysentery, cholera morbus, diarrhoeal diseases and the trans- 
mission of the eggs of intestinal and other parasites, because the 
germs of eggs of these diseases are present in the intestinal tract 
and presumably also in sewage contaminated water. Mr. Allen 
Hazen,'' one of the most distinguished experts on water purifica- 
tion in America, has conclusively shown that as the result of 
filtration plants in five cities supplied previously with an impure 
water, there was not only a reduction of 81 per cent in the deaths 
from typhoid fever, but also a marked reduction in the general 



oThe agency of flies in the transmission of typhoid fever germs was first pointed out by 
the writer in the Report of the Health Officer of the District of Columbia in 1895. 
i)See paper read at the International Engineers' Congress at St. Louis in 1904. 



432 The Journal of Home Econoyyiics [December 

death rate. His computations clearly indicate that where one 
death from typhoid fever has been avoided by the use of a better 
water, a certain number of deaths, probably two or three from 
other causes, have been avoided. The truth of Hazen's theorem 
has recently been confirmed by Prof. Sedgwick. It is a difficult 
matter to explain how water is connected with the deaths other 
than those from water-borne diseases, yet when we consider that 
water enters into the composition of the human body to the 
extent of 60 per cent we are in a position to appreciate the sani- 
tary acumen of Aristotle when he wrote in his Politica: "The 
greatest influence on health is exerted by those things which we 
most freely and frequently require for our existence, and this is 
especially true of water and air." 

The importance of the subject is generally appreciated and the 
North American Conservation Conference on February 23, 1909, 
in the declaration of principles, adopted the following in reference 
to public health. 

"Believing that the conservation movement tends strongly to 
develop national efficiency in the highest possible degree in our 
respective countries, we recognize that to accomplish such an 
object with success, the maintenance and improvement of public 
health is a first essential. 

"In all steps for the utilization of natural resources considera- 
tions of public health should always be kept in vieM'. 

"Facts which cannot be questioned demonstrate that im- 
mediate action is necessary to prevent further pollution, mainly 
by sewage, of the lakes, rivers and streams throughout North 
America. Such pollution, aside from the enormous loss in 
fertilizing elements entailed thereby, is an immediate and 
continuous danger to public health, to the health of animals, and 
when caused by certain chemical agents, to agriculture. There- 
fore, we recommend that preventive legislation be enacted." 

Having studied the effects of pure water supplies upon mor- 
tality rates let us next consider the influence of pure air, removal 
of dampness and of general sanitation upon tuberculosis. 

The Influence of Sewers in the Prevalence of Tuberculosis. — The 
records of the Health Office of the City of Washington show 
that during the past thirty years 14.5 per cent of all the deaths 
occurring in the District of Columbia have been caused by 
pulmonary tuberculosis. The death rate, however, has gradually 



1909] The Progress of Sanitation 433 

and constantly fallen from 440 per 100,000 in 1880 to 210 in 1907. 
The death rate from this disease in New York City has fallen in 
like manner from 355.6 to 271, in the United States at large from 
326.2 in 1880 to 183.6 in 1907, in England and Wales from 348.7 
in 1850 to 172.2 in 1906, and in Massachusetts during the same 
period from 469.2 to 218.3. These reductions began long before 
the combat of the disease was a subject for popular education. 
The question naturally arises, if these reductions have resulted 
independent of any attempt to control the source of infections, 
what are the chief factors concerned in bringing about this 
gratifying result' In considering the question, I know of no 
sanitary reforms which could have exerted a greater influence 
upon our general well-being than the introduction of sewers, im- 
proved water supplies and the erection of sanitary homes. 
The marked reduction in the prevalence of consumption after the 
introduction of sewers observed in England over forty years ago, 
and also in the cities of Washington and New York and the 
country at large, may to a great extent be attributed to the 
prevention of air pollution and dampness. It is noteworthy 
that while the reduction in Washington coincident with the intro- 
duction of sewers amounts to 37.3 per cent the reduction in 
Baltimore, an unsewered city, is only 24. per cent. It has been 
estimated by Erismann that a cess-pool with 18 cm. contents is 
capable of polluting the atmosphere in the course of twenty-four 
hours with 18.79 cm. of impure gas, composed of carbonic acid, 
ammonia, sulphuretted and carburetted hydrogen and volatile 
fatty acids. In view of this fact it requires no great stretch of 
the imagination to calculate the amount of air pollution which 
resulted from the 30,000 cesspools and other makeshifts prior to 
the introduction of the sewerage system in the city of Washing- 
ton. The influence of impure air upon our physical well- 
being and the powers of resistance cannot be under-rated. As a 
matter of fact, individuals who contract tuberculosis in cities 
often arrest the disease by removal to the country, showing that 
an abundance of pure air is a very important factor in the treat- 
ment of the disease, simply because it promotes oxygenation of the 
blood, stimulates the appetite and nutrition and thereby in- 
creases the general resisting power of the system. There can 
be no doubt as to the curative virtues of pure air, and hence we 
ought not to under-rate its preventive properties. 



434 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [December 

The importance of a dry, healthful building site was appre- 
ciated by Hippocrates, since he as well as Vitruvius, the father of 
architecture, referred in their writings to elevation as a desirable 
factor. One of the most striking illustrations of damp habitation 
as a predisposing cause to consumption has been recorded by 
Nowak, in the case of a prison in the vicinity of Vienna, contain- 
ing on an average 200 inmates. Every convict is examined before 
his transport, and if found affected with incipient tuberculosis he 
is sent elsewhere. In spite of this precaution the deaths number 
about 50 per annum and the majority die from consumption. 
The prisoners are better fed in this institution than elsewhere, 
but the building rests on a wet soil, the walls reeking with 
moisture, and the rooms smell musty. 

The relation of dampness to consumption may be explained 
as follows: Dampness of soil, unless special precautions have 
been taken, extends by capillary attraction to the walls and 
renders the entire house damp. Damp air abstracts an undue 
amount of animal heat, lowers the power of resistance of the 
inmates and predisposes to catarrhal affections, and these in 
turn render the mucous membranes vulnerable to the invasion 
of the tubercle bacilli. There is also reason for believing that 
the tubercle bacilli retain their vitality for a greater length of 
time in such an atmosphere on account of its humidity and 
excess of organic matter. 

At all events it has long been known that tuberculosis is far 
more prevalent in damp, dark and insanitary houses. The 
children are anaemic and as puny as plants raised vcithout the 
stimulating eiTects of sunlight. The death rate is often double 
and treble that of other localities. While there are doubtless 
other factors which determine the frightful mortality, none are 
more potent than dampness, deficient sunlight and poor ventila- 
tion. The tubercle bacillus clinging to floors and walls in care- 
lessly expectorated sputum or droplets would be destroyed by a 
few hours exposure to sunlight, but finds in damp and dark 
basements, back-to-back houses, and yards and alley tenements 
suitable environments for its vitality and growth, and the other 
insanitary factors alluded to, together with the more intimate 
contact, materially increase the chances of infection. 

If it should appear from the foregoing that the writer believes 
in the ubiquity of the tubercle bacillus and that the question of 



1909] The Progress of Sanitation 435 

environment should receive first and foremost consideration, he 
desires to be understood that he is convinced from the splendid 
labors of Professor Carl Fluegge that the tubercle bacillus is not 
ubiquitous and hence the task of stamping out the primary 
sources of infection is by no means a hopeless one. 

He believes, however, that, until this is accomplished, in 
this disease as in other infectious diseases due attention should 
be given to all the causes likely to influence their spread, so that 
in our efforts to combat tuberculosis they may receive proper 
consideration. 

We can scarcely do better tnan to conclude our review with 
the following quotation from the report of the Conservation 
Commission. 

"Since the greatest of our national assets is the health and 
vigor of the American people, our efficiency must depend on 
national vitality even more than on the resources of the minerals, 
lands, forests and waters. The average length of human life in 
different countries varies from less than 25 to more than 50 years. 
This span of life is increasing wherever sanitary science and 
preventive medicine are applied. It may be greatly extended 
Our annual mortality from tuberculosis is about 150,000. Stop- 
ping three-fourths of the loss of life from this cause and from 
typhoid and other prevalent diseases would increase our average 
length of life fifteen years. There are constantly about 3 ,000,000 
persons seriously ill in the United States, of whom 500,000 are 
consumptives. More than half this illness is preventable. If we 
count the value of each life lost at only $1,700, and reckon the 
average earning lost by illness at S700 a year for grown men, we 
find that the economic gain from mitigation of preventable dis- 
ease in the United States would exceed 81,500,000,000 a year. 
This gain, or the lengthening and strengthening of life which it 
measures, can be had through medical investigation and practice, 
school and factory hygiene, restriction of labor by women and 
children, the education of the people in both public and private 
hygiene, and through improving the efficiency of our health 
service, municipal, state and national." 



PAPERS AND DISCUSSION AT THE DENVER MEETINGS. 



APPLIC-VTIOX OF THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS AND SCIENCES 
TO THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. a 

Unquestionably the school has drawn the interest of the child 
from the home, and consequently his sense of responsibility and 
relationship, developed through the daily cooperation in the 
family life, is lost. 

How may this same agency, the school, be enabled to restore 
the importance of home and home duties ? 

One of the suggestions offered is that the school shall build a 
small dwelling house in the hall, or basement, or yard. A house of 
three rooms, 7x7 each, — kitchen, bed-room, dining and living 
room combined, is sufficiently large for the use of children eight 
to twelve years old. It may be built by the manual training 
class, in sections of one room each, or secured from one of the 
firms making portable houses at a cost of $200 to $300. 

Equally important is the care of the home and its furnishings. 
The simply furnished house means less physical exertion but not 
necessarily less beauty. 

Proper clothing and its care is essential to a child's healthy 
conditions. Habits of cleanliness, neatness and order must be 
developed in the early years. 

It would not be quite practical in this little house to enter into 
the personal activities of bathing and dressing, so a very large 
doll approximating the size of the child may be used. 

The food problem so fundamental to the welfare of the race 
must be presented to the child so that he will learn to desire the 
right kind of food and to have it clean. 

"Right Living" goes further and demands, also, the right 
manner of serving and eating the food. 

The home table should be the school of good manners and of 
good food habits. 

If all the foregoing principles have been touched upon through 
the life in this little house, if the child has been led to see the joy 
of living through these home activities, she will feel that the real 
home is hers in which "to do" and will be ready to share its 
responsibilities. 



oA synopsis of an address by Ellen H. Richards, delivered before the departmenCof 
Elementary Education, National Education Association, Denver, Colorado, 1909. 



1909] Papers and Discussion at the Denver Meetings 437 

A DISCUSSION OF MRS. RICHARDS' ADDRESS. 

In discussing the foregoing address Miss Ednah A. Rich. 
Principal of the State Normal School of Manual Arts and Home 
Economics, Santa Barbara, Calif., spoke as follows: 

Mrs. Richard's paper is so comprehensive that one hesitates to 
take away, by discussion, the impression made by the charming 
word pictures she has given us. 

All that the paper has suggested lies within the range of 
possibility, and those who are now in training are being prepared 
to present their so called regular school subjects in relation one 
to another. Not being "special" teachers, in the common ac- 
ceptance of that term, you may be appalled at the suggestion 
that you must take onto yourself additional responsibilities 
with your already crowded curriculum, but in reality Mrs. 
Richards is not giving you more w^ork, she is making the way 
clear for better work. 

Accepting Mrs. Richard's statement that "unquestionably the 
school has drawn the interest of the child from the home, with 
the consequent loss of his sense of the responsibility and relation- 
ship developed through the daily co-operation in the family life," 
can we not, as teachers, try to shift some of the blame for the 
present conditions to other causes? In cities, the modem 
apartment, the convenient cottage, with their labor-saving 
appliances, the crowded tenement with its small rooms, have 
been planned with no thought of children's activities. In 
towns, where there are few class distinctions, life is normal and 
the home and the school are one; in rural districts, where the 
possibilities are greater, life often goes on in a routine, with 
standards based on traditions, not growth. 

Bakeries, markets with fresh products from every section of 
the country, the increased production of prepared foods — 
biscuits, cereals, soups, meats and fruits — all tend to eliminate 
housework. Ready-made clothing and every "notion" one 
desires for the house are displayed in the department store to 
tempt the housewife. Laundries take away another so-called 
burden, and again the child's development is left out of the 
home plan. Yet the home must continue to be the greatest 
factor in the community. 

Parents almost w-ithout exception have a conviction that 
children should have an education. They sometimes have 



438 The Journal of Home Eccniomics [December 

no clear idea of the plan, but Mrs. Richards is right when she 
says that the result must be "efficiency," and to that quality 
I would add "service." 

Admitting that the school has the power to revive the interest, 
I am not quite willing to admit that the interest of parents and 
children in the importance of home duties is really lost. Mrs. 
Richards has given you a key. 

Children care very little for the finished product, it is the 
process that interests them — the construction. Their reading, 
geography, mathematics, drawing, manual training, sewing, 
cooking, can all be so thoroughly a part of the plan that the 
school and home are one. Neighborhood houses, playgrounds, 
visiting nurses, various associations for the uplift of the un- 
fortunate, take from you the burden of obligation to any but 
normal children, and surely you can do your part even though 
you have not had the special training which tends to broaden 
your sympathies. 

The upper grammar grades and secondary schools are provided 
for, but it is your privilege to deal with children at the formative 
period, and here the play sense is your guide and aid. Bringing 
children into contact with the real things in life must not dull the 
edge of the play spirit, because drudgery is the result, and that 
factor must be eliminated if we would have true happiness. 

Take the story of the house — consider grades below the sixth. 
Suppose you ha\-e no manual training in your schools in those 
grades. Find an unused corner in your schoolroom, hall or 
recitation room. You will need the janitor's saw, square and 
hammer, and maybe his co-operation. With boxes from the 
grocery or dry goods store, the remnant counter for inexpensive 
materials, quiet in tone, you have your furniture. Burlap 
screens are as good as walls and may be adapted to many uses. 
The house may be used by several classes if the teachers will 
work out their plans together. 

Mrs. Richards has told you what to do and how to do it, and 
it is for you to adapt your plan to the ideal she has presented to 
you. If you are in earnest you will find help on every side, 
school gardens will contribute and mothers' clubs will give you 
the wherewithal to purchase necessities. Shall all the children 
be given this work? Yes, but in varying degree. The child 
from the good home, through his willingness and ability as an 



1909J Papers aiid Discussion at tlie Denver Meetings 439 

example to others, is helped by the school which serves to 
strengthen the home lessons, while the result of the help for the 
untrained child is obvious. 

It is work for a purpose, and self -activity counts for the best 
development of the child. 

You may not be able to carry out any of these suggestions 
immediately, but the thought that you are in a sense, from the 
very nature of your calling, responsible for the child's growth 
along right lines, will help strengthen your own understanding 
of the whole value of right living. 

BUSINESS EDUCATION" FOR GIRLS.a] .r. —^ 

The business education a girl needs depends upon the business 
and the girl. V\'e will not enter any controversy as to comparison 
of ability. When the girl enters the field we mere males will 
climb the fence and give her the whole pasture. Many of the 
girls are so much brighter than their brothers that the latter get 
lost in the woods. We are ready to concede all this and any- 
thing else the girls demand, for some of us have learned by 
experience the futility of argument with those to whom the rules 
of logic are of infinitely less importance than those of Butterick or 
May Manton. 

Having cleared the decks let us see whether we can get back to 
first principles. The state and the nation are built on the home, 
and can be no better than the materials which that furnishes. 
Good homes make good citizens. Deterioration and ultimate 
disintegration must result from the inferior citizenship produced 
in bad homes. 

There is only one person in the world who can make a good 
home. That is a good woman who becomes the wife and mother. 
She may be capable of becoming a good lawyer, physician, minis- 
ter, stenographer, bookkeeper, teacher, or business manager, 
but men can do all these things very satisfactorily and success- 
fully. This one thing she alone can do, and to this one thing 
all her instincts tend. If, then, we are to have good citizens, good 
laws, good government and a future worthy of our past, our 
girls must have the kind of education, first of all, which will 
prepare them to be good wives and mothers. 

aAn address by S. R. Hoover, Vice-principal of the High School of Commerce, 
Cleveland, O., before the American Home Economics Association, Denver, Col July 7 
1909. 



440 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The great probability being that the girl's business will be 
attempting to make a home, let us place first on the list of her 
studies Domestic Science. Teach her hoAv to cook — not blanc 
mange and fruit cake — but the essential foods. Since she must 
"feed the brute" to retain his affection , she will find it much more 
permanently bound by good bread and well roasted beef than by 
angel food and floating islands. 

Teach her to make, not point lace and embroidered pillows, 
but aprons, dresses, and children's garments. Add the funda- 
mentals of health and hygiene, especially for young children. 
The great mortality of the human race is in the slaughter of the 
innocents, a large part of which is due directly to the ignorance of 
mothers. A sufhcient knowledge of accounts to make her ac- 
curate and to develop system and economy will add in large 
measure to her office of helpmate — perhaps enough to insure the 
ownership bye and bye of a patch of ground and a cottage. 
These things may be much more attractive and the home may be- 
come the most pleasant place in the world, as it should be, by the 
addition of Domestic Art to Domestic Science. These things the 
girl should know, whatever course of study she takes, and what- 
ever school she enters. 

If there remain more time, literature and other humanities 
will add to her efhciency in her circle and to her pleasure in her 
associations. To the dyspeptic croaker, whether in trousers or 
petticoats, who will shake in malarial impotence of rage over this 
picture of slavery to the kitchen a sentence is due. It may be 
that some unusual exigency in domestic affairs or some abnormal 
weakness toward the fascination of commercial activity will drive 
the girl to the ofhce, the shop, or the factory. But he who fosters 
the inclination of the girls toward these pursuits to the disfavor 
of home making and home keeping is stifling the call of nature 
to her dearest children, in robbing them of the crowns which 
would make them queens and giving in return only cheap tinsel, 
for when they marry, as the great majority will, the whole bot- 
tom of health, happiness, and morals will fall out of the home if 
they have not been prepared for their responsibilities as wives 
and mothers. 



i9oy] Papers and Discussions at the Denver Meetings 441 

INFLUENCE OF INDUSTRIAL ARTS AND SCIENCE UPON 
RURAL AND CITY HOME LIFE. a 

The new order of things has come, but women, so far. have not 
been given the means with which to utilize it. 

To whom shall we turn for experience and knowledge ' To the 
men in the Industrial world. 

The management of American industries, the methods of the 
American business world stand at the very front, brought there 
by using the lessons of experience to form a definite science of 
business methods. 

The home cannot be maintained without labor — how much 
labor depends upon the perfection of the machinery. Given this 
machinery, woman's greater flexibility of thought and adapta- 
bility of manipulation will be utilized. She must feel the sense 
of power over things. 

The girl needs as much manual training as the boy; the means 
may be different, but the goal is the same, "to train workmen to do 
better work." For the well-being of her family, she should be 
taught to know the machinery of the home and how to care for it, 
as well as the boy who is to be trained as an engineer or for some 
industrial enterprise is taught to know his plant. 

There must be another workshop added to your group. "What 
shall it be — a station for the application of the industrial arts and 
sciences to the home ':' In the study of electricity, I wish we had 
a room in one of our educational institutions as well equipped 
with household appliances as is the salesroom of a modem 
electric light company. 

Again, we are turning to the outside industries for the develop- 
ment of manual training and we must utilize this same tendency 
if we mean to cultivate woman's efficiency in her traditional de- 
partment that she may continue to control it. 

The time is ripe for the movement. 

The family, the house, its furnishings, its management, its 
daily care, its needs in mechanical appliances, its ethical stand- 
ards, and the share of the income it needs to carry it on suc- 
cessfully under twentieth century conditions, must be determined 
and we must fully realize the bearing of mechanical and economic 
changes upon the material surroundings of the home life. This 
preparation cannot be too closely interwoven with all school work. 

ah synopsis of an address by Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, before the Department of Manual 
Training, National Education Association, Denver, Colo., 1909. 



COST OF LIVING OF THE WORKING CLASSES IN EUROPE.'' 

There are reported in the publication under consideration 
the results of an extended study undertaken by the Board of 
Trade of Great Britain of the working class rents, housing, retail 
prices and standard rates of wages prevailing in a number of 
occupations in the principal industrial towns the monographs 
dealing respectively with conditions in the United Kingdom, 
Germany and France. 

In the report dealing with the United Kingdom, detailed re- 
ports from 94 towns and summaries of the data are given, to- 
gether with information in appendixes regarding the percentage 
of the population in each town living in different kinds of tene- 
ments and in overcrowded tenements, the weekly time rates and 
wages of skilled men in different trades, and similar topics. 

Out of a total of 1,944 families, 261 reported a weekly income 
under $6.25; 596 of over $10; and 416 of $7.50 to S8. 75. The 
proportion of income spent on food diminished as the income in- 
creased, two-thirds of the total expenditure being for food where 
the incomes were less than $7.50, and about 75 per cent in the case 
of incomes of $10 and over a week. 

"The amount spent on bread and flour together does not 
show much variation in the different ranges of income, except in 
the cases of incomes above Sio where the family income is aug- 
mented to a greater extent than in the other groups by the earn- 
ings of children and in which the children included are older. 

"In the case of incomes below $6.25 the expenditure on bread 
and flour forms about 2 1 per cent of the total spent on food ; for 
incomes between $8.75 and $10 the proportion is 15 per cent. 
The quantity of bread and flour purchased varies from 28^^ to 
37>^ lbs. per week, the average being 32 lbs. 

"The average expenditure on meat and fish of all kinds is seen 
from the table to be $1.5 9^2 per week. . . 

"If we turn to other articles of consumption we find that fresh 
milk accounts for 16 cts. a week in the families with incomes be- 
low $6.25, but the expenditure on fresh milk rises rapidly with 
the income. The average expenditure for all families is 31^ 
cents. 



aA. W. Fox, London: Govt. Cost of Living of the Working Classes [in the United 
Kingdom,] 1908, pp. LIII-I-616, maps 2; Cost of Living in German Towns, 1908. pp. 
LXI-|-ss8, map i ; Cost of Living in French Towns, 1909, pp. LIV-430. 



J 909] Cost of Living in Europe 443 

"Oatmeal is consumed largely by the Scotch working classes, 
but hardl> at all in England, whilst on the other hand foreign and 
colonial meat, a common article of food in England, is much less 
used in most parts of Scotland. 

"Rice, tapioca, and oatmeal account for an expenditure of 
from 9 cts. to 14 cts. a week, a considerable portion of this 
amount being accounted for b}^ the expenditure on oatmeal in 
Scotland, which amounts on an average to 16% cts. per week." 

Some statistics are also given for other food groups. 

Housing conditions and other similar topics are discussed at 
length. 

"As a basis of comparison the levels of rent, prices, and rates of 
wages in the Middle Zone of London were taken as standards, 
and index numbers have been calculated for each of these items in 
every town, so as to afford an indication of the relative levels of 
the towns, in relation both to London and to each other. For 
Scotland and Ireland supplementary standards were obtained by 
the adoption of Edinburgh and Dublin respectively as bases, so 
that for the towns of each of those two countries a two-fold 
comparison has been made — one with Edinburgh or Dublin, and 
one with London." 

Attention is especially directed to the "remarkably high level 
of rents which prevails in London as compared with the rest of 
the country. In Scotland the rents in the capital are only 
slightly higher than those in the other towns; but in Ireland, 
Dublin shows a markedly higher level than the rest of the 
country. If we exclude London, the variation of rents in Eng- 
land and Wales is not very great, and prices are on the whole 
singularly uniform, with the result that for equal accommodation 
and equal provision of food and fuel the necessary expenditure 
would not dififer very much from one town to another. 

"Another fact is that the tenements of 4 or 5 rooms (i. e., self- 
contained two-storied dwellings, possessing 4 or 5 rooms and a 
separate scullery) are by far the most predominant types of 
housing accommodation in England and Wales, and may be taken 
as the typical dwellings of the English working class. Finally, 
it may be noted that the comparison made in the present investi- 
gations between the relative levels of wages, rents and the retail 
prices of commodities in different industrial centers does not 
disclose a sufficientlv close connection between the local varia- 



444 ^^ Journal of Home Economics [December 

tions of wages and cost of living to justify any general conclusion 
beyond the well-established fact that both factors are higher in 
London than in other parts of the United Kingdom. Further 
light, however, may be thrown on this question when the inquiry 
now in progress as to the earnings of the working classes is 
completed." 

The report dealing with German conditions includes investiga- 
tions made in t,t, of the industrial towns of the German Empire. 
It contains an introduction by H. L. Smith, a summary by the 
author, detailed reports and appendixes with data regarding 
wages and hours of labor, weekly rents, housing and lodging 
house regulations, regulations regarding the inspection and sale of 
food, and similar topics. 

As regards the total expenditures for foods of different kinds, 
the budgets show that the total weekly expenditure on meats of 
all kinds, including bacon, fish, etc., was from 97 cts. in the lowest 
income class, to $2.24 in the case of family incomes above $10 per 
week. The average weekly income was from under $5 to over 
$10, ranging in the greatest number of families from $6.25 to 

$8.75- 

"Between the United Kingdom and Germany the differences 
in some respects are very marked. The prevalent type of 
working-class housing in England and Wales, and to a lesser de- 
gree in Ireland, is a self-contained two-storied dwelling, pos- 
sessing generally 4 or 5 rooms and a separate scullery ; in Ger- 
many the predominant type is a flat of 2 or 3 rooms with appur- 
tenances, in a large tenement house. The German housing system 
thus approximates more closely to the Scottish type — blocks of 
fiats of 2, 3, or 4 stories — than to the English. English, but not 
Scotch, rents of working-class dwellings usually include local 
taxation, which is based on the rentable value of the dwelling; 
in Germany local taxation is levied on an entirely different basis, 
and is not included in rent. In regard to food the British work- 
man's meat consists mainly of beef and mutton, whilst pork 
(even including bacon) is relatively small in amount ; the German 
workman on the other hand, eats chiefly pork (including sausage) 
and beef, and only a very little mutton. The pure wheat bread 
eaten by the working-classes of the United Kingdom is replaced 
in Germ.any either by pure rye bread, or more commonly by 
some mixture of rye and wheat. 



1909] Cost of Living in Europe 445 

"It may be pointed out that there is little if any difference be- 
tween the general levels of rent in Germany and England, 
though rents in England include a considerable clement of local 
taxation, whilst rents in Germany do not; and that rents in 
Berlin exceed those of all the other German towns investigated 
(except Stuttgart) to practically the same extent as rents in 
London exceed those which prevail in other towns of the United 
Kingdom. 

"Further the range of town prices levels in Germany, as in the 
United Kingdom, is not very great, though somewhat wider in 
the case of the German towns, with the result that the difference, 
between the cost of living (so far as it relates to expenditure on 
rent, food, and fuel) in one or another of the German towns 
investigated are not very much larger than those which exist be- 
tween the to\\ ns of the United Kingdom. The general level of 
prices is, however, distinctly higher in Germany than in the 
United Kingdom, and in this connection an important instance of 
the effects of differences in national habits may be noticed. The 
English workman going to Germany and maintaining his ac- 
customed standard of living would find his expenditure on food 
and fuel substantially increased ; but in spite of the generally 
higher level of prices in Germany the German workman coming 
to England, and maintaining his own standard, would not find 
his expenditure reduced in a corresponding proportion. This is 
due mainly to the fact that the German workman takes much 
more than the English workman of certain food commodities, 
chiefly potatoes and milk, which are cheaper in German than in 
English towns. 

"Finally, whilst nominal rents are as high in Germany as in 
England — and in fact higher, since they do not include local 
taxation, ■\\'hich the Gern^an workman must pay separately — and 
whilst the general le\-el of food prices in the German to\\-ns is 
also higher than in England, wages in those trades for which a 
comparison has been made are substantially lower, even when 
longer hours are worked." 

Similar data are reported for the principal industrial towns of 
France in the third volume. Here also there are detailed reports 
for the different towns, and summaries of data on m.unicipal regu- 
lations and legal enactments regarding food and lodging, speci- 
men factory rules, and similar subjects. 



446 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

"The main subjects of investigation were the principal types 
of housing for the industrial population, the customary standards 
of accommodation and the rents commonly paid by working-class 
tenants; the kinds of food usually consumed by working-class 
families and the prices most generally paid ; and wages and hours 
of labor in the principal occupations in each town. In order to 
arrive at some estimate of the standard of living prevalent 
amongthe French industrial classes, over 5, 600 budgets showing the 
expenditure on food by working-class families in a normal week, 
and representative of numerous occupations and of all grades of 
■working-class incomes, were obtained from the various towns 
and are analyzed in the present volume. 

"In regard to food, the meat dietary of the French working- 
class family shows a much greater variety than that of either the 
English or German family of the same class; horseflesh appears 
to be more largely consumed (chiefly for reasons of taste) in 
France than in Germany, whilst poultry is much more con- 
spicuous in the food bill of the French than of the English 
family. The French workman like the English, eats pure 
wheaten bread; the bread made of rye, or of rye mixed in 
various proportions with wheat, so popular in Germany, are little 
known in France. Vegetables play a much more important part 
in the dietary of the French than of the English working-classes ; 
when allowance is made for the smaller size of families, the 
consumption of milk is only shghtly higher, whilst that of sugar is 
on the other hand, decidedly less." 

The Care of ^^ ^^^ P^yi"g higher prices for the staples of life nowa- 

Food in the days — milk, butter, meats, due in part to the extra cost 

Dq—j- of producing the same in a sanitary manner. The rise 

of the standard of producing food has forced the pro- 
ducer to increase the price of food ; and is it not the part of the consumer 
to make this extra cost worth while ? Should not the consumer as well as 
the producer take pains to keep milk, cream, meats and other foods clean, 
pure, free from bacteria, and fit for eating ? Instead of the common prac- 
tice of leaving milk on the kitchen table some time after delivery exposed 
to heat and dust, it should be promptly and carefully put away under cover 
and in a cool place." F. W. Shumway, Hygiene and the Housewife, Dietet. 
andHyg. Gaz., 25 (1909), No. 4, p. 241. 



A NEW METHOD OF HOUSEKEEPING- THE PICK 
APARTMENT HOUSE OF COPENHAGEN/^ 

An attempt to reform the state of affairs whereby the mother 
IS expected to be, as Charlotte Perkins Oilman says, an embryo 
combmation of cook, nurse, laundress, chambermaid, waitress 
governess, and housekeeper— Jack of all trades and master of 
none— has been made by Otto Pick, who established an apartment 
house of a novel type in Copenhagen in 1904. The apartments 
—twenty-five m number and containing from three to five 
rooms each— are rented unfurnished, so that each family can 
furnish its home in accordance with its own tastes and require- 
ments. Each apartment has a kitchenette svith a gas stove and 
a bathroom, suppHed with hot water day and night. Electric 
light and central steam heating are included in the equipment 
and each apartment is connected by telephone with the general 
kitchen, and also with the public telephone system Meals are 
prepared in the general kitchen and sent up to each apartment 
by means of an electric dumb-waiter. 

Privacy is as complete as in an apartment house of the usual 
type. The only commercial feature is the centralization and 
specialization of every task of housekeeping— cleaning, ventila- 
tion, hghtmg. heating and. preparation of food— so that the 
tenants are entirely reheved of the burdens of marketing, making 
fires, cooking, serving, dishwashing, etc. 

Luncheon is served in the apartments from ten to twelve, and 
neatly packed luncheons are provided for school children and 
others who desire them. Dinner is served in the afternoon 
according to Copenhagen custom, and tea until ten in the evening' 
The menu is so extensive and varied that monotony can be 
easily avoided.and the general kitchen has a list of the preferences 
and particulariy of the aversions, of every family, in which it is 
gravely set down that one family is never to be served with mush- 
rooms, a second with cabbage, a third with rice pudding, etc. 
Individual, as well as family preferences are respected. 

Dishes, plates, cups, etc., of the so-called "unbreakable" ware 
are furnished by the management, but each family may provide 
itsj)wn tableware and have it washed in the general kitchen, 

174! p'siT ''' " ^'•""'^'^^'°" ''-"^ ^■"«^-^-« by Scientific American Sup., 67 (,909;. No. 



447 



448 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

without, however, any guarantee against breakage. Laundry- 
work, extra service and meals for occasional guests are furnished 
at low rates. 

Cheapness, indeed, is the guiding principle, and cheapness 
combined with excellence is attainable only with the aid of 
centralized housekeeping. The kitchens and other service rooms 
in the basement are equipped with the most approved apparatus, 
and the food and other supplies are abundant and of the best 
quality. 

The annual charges for rent, heat, light, baths, food, and 
service, including pneumatic "sweeping," window cleaning, and 
even shoe polishing, range from $420 for two adults occupying 
a three-room apartment, to $930 for four adults occupying a 
five-room apartment. 

Small additional charges are made for children and servants. 

This first centralized apartment house has proved so successful 
that others are projected. Fick also purposes to erect a house 
with large general playrooms for school children and for small 
children. Nurses will also be provided so that mothers who have 
occupations away from home will be able to leave their little ones 
in safe keeping. 

Among the advantages claimed for the Fick system is that it 
settles the servant question to the advantage of both employer 
and employed. Much of the work of the centralized household 
is performed by machines and the rest is skilled labor with definite 
hours of work. When housekeeping is thus raised to the rank 
of a specialized industry it will attract workers of a more intel- 
ligent class who now very justifiably refuse to work sixteen or 
eighteen hours a day. 

Again under the present system a house is attainable by an 
unmarried man or woman, yet the cost and burden of house- 
keeping act as preventives of marriage. The system is very 
elastic and allows of apartments of two rooms, or even one room, 
and of general dining rooms, reading rooms, etc. 

Finally, the lifting of the burden of housework makes possible 
a reform in child culture. 




Sot 



2 & 

s< 
2„ 



oS 



o . 



&Z 



HOME ECONOMICS AT THE ALASKA-YUKON PACIHC 
EXPOSITION. 

Although there was no central exhibit of Home Economics 
work at the Alaska-Yukon Pacific Exposition, various phases 
received considerable attention. The following article presents 
a brief description of the illustrative material shown by the 
Office of Experiment Stations of the United States Department 
of Agriculture in connection with its Nutrition Investigations, 
and comments by Mrs. E. H. Richards on the work shown by 
educational institutions in Domestic Science and Domestic Art. 

Nutrition Exhibit of the Office of Experiment Stations. — The 
work of the Oflfice of Experiment Stations and other Bureaus of 
the Department of Agriculture was represented by exhibits in the 
Government Building. The accompanying illustration shows 
the exhibit illustrating the in\'estigations in human nutrition 
which was installed in one of the large pavilion cases. A promi- 
nent feature of this exhibit was a model of the respiration 
calorimeter as it was installed at Middletown, Conn., built to a 
scale one-fourth the actual size of the apparatus. The model 
was so arranged as to show the construction and operation of the 
calorimeter, while the numerous labels explained the purpose of 
the different parts and the way in which the apparatus is em- 
ployed for studying the use which the body makes of food by 
determining the balance of income and outgo of matter and 
energy. 

The composition of the human body was illustrated by a 
series of jars containing the quantities of water, protein, fat, and 
carbohydrates in the body of a man weighing 154 pounds. The 
same method was used for showing concretely the comparative 
composition of bread, meat, milk, eggs, potatoes, and apples. 
In addition, the fuel value of these foods was shown by means of 
bottles containing definite quantities of coal. 

Studies of the relative losses sustained when meat of different 
sorts is cooked in a variety of ways have been an important 
feature of the Nutrition Investigations of the Office of Experiment 
Stations. This work was illustrated by wax models of raw beef 
and the same cut when boiled, broiled, and roasted. The relative 
amount of material removed by each method of cookery was 

449 



450 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

shown by a series of bottles containing the proper proportions 
of water, protein, and fat. 

A portrait of Professor At water, who instituted the Nutrition 
Investigations, was also shown in this case, together with thirteen 
framed charts which depicted by means of colored diagrams the 
composition of the more important food materials. These charts 
were drawn and colored particularly for this exhibit and have 
not been published for distribution. 

The exhibit also directed attention to the bulletins and other 
publications which have been issued in connection with the 
Nutrition Investigations. 

Work in Domestic Science and Domestic Art. — The progress in 
territory covered and number of schools giving work under this 
head could be well studied in the exhibits. 

Although it was not practicable to send the Mary Lowell 
Stone Home Economics exhibit, the ideas for which it stood were 
to a degree carried out in the exhibits of the work of the Oregon 
Agricultural College, where house plans and schemes for house 
decoration were shown. The exhibit of Domestic Art in the way 
of clothing showed restraint in design and good quality in 
material. The secondary courses in this school take girls from 
the eighth grade. They include plain cooking, simple dietetics, 
laundry methods, observational work on the home and its 
surroundings, plain sewing, dresses and millinery. 

The degree courses take girls of sixteen years old who have had 
two years of high school work, and embrace advanced and special 
cookery, marketing, etc., bacteriology and normal methods, 
basketry and weaving, advanced sewing and millinery. 

The institution is thus doing about what the technical high 
schools of the large centers are now aiming to accomplish and 
what more and more of the most up-to-date high schools are 
going to do in the near future. 

The State College of Washington, located at Pullman, had a 
full exhibit. The object of the Department of Domestic Econ- 
omy, of which Miss Lucy Gertrude Mac Kay is acting head, with 
Miss Frances McKay, instructor in Domestic Art, and Miss 
Leila Wall Hunt, instructor in Domestic Economy, is two-fold: 
To train young women in what pertains to the management and 
care of the home and to prepare teachers in these subjects. 
Instruction is given in the fundamental principles and the 



1909] Home Economics at the Exposition 451 

practice of Domestic Economy, including the study of foods and 
cookery, the study of textile fabrics and the making of clothing, 
and of the arts and sciences that have a direct bearing upon these 
matters. An illustration of the new Domestic Economy 
Building of this college constitutes the frontispiece of this 
number of the Journal. 

All through the buildings exhibits of sewing, embroidery, 
basketry, etc., were to be found and some of the public schools 
showed good hand work, but there was little evidence of a sound 
science basis back of it all, and almost no example of good selec- 
tion as to material and form of making up in the sewing. It 
was mostly after the prevailing "style." 

There was one ingenious illustration of how limited space and 
resources can be economically used rather than to omit the instruc- 
tion altogether. This Mr. Johnson showed in the King County 
Building, the room of the Denny School used in common by the 
boys for manual training and the girls for cooking. The same 
bench serves for both classes at different hours. The benches 
are varnished and smooth. The girls have the top drawer 
opening on the back of the desk, the boys the bottom drawer for 
tools. The vise holder comes up on the right side, the gas pipe 
and stop cock to which a rubber hose may be attached, on the 
left. The girls have a cooking board which they place on the top 
and when they are through it is cleaned and set away as are 
drawing boards. 

There are some twenty cooking centers in Seattle and three or 
more high schools which give work alternating with sewing and 
designing. All material is furnished by the city. Sewing in the 
seventh grade consists in making caps and aprons for later use. 



EDITORIALS. 

We wish to call to the special attention of our 
The readers the full program on another page of the 

December Second Annual Meeting of the American Home 

Meeting. Economics Association to be held in Boston 

on December 31 and January i, next, in con- 
nection with the meetmg of the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science. The opportunity to hear the speakers 
mentioned will not form the only inducement for attendance; 
perhaps of still greater value will be the informal meetings between 
those having mutual interests. The sessions will be especially 
valuable to teachers. 

In the February number of this Journal 
Address will be printed a revised list of the names 

List of and addresses of the members of the Associa- 

Members tion. Any changes of address must be 

sent to the secretary, Mr. Benjamin R. 
Andrews, 525 W. 120th St., New York City, before December 
20th. 

A member of the school board in a country 
The Housewife town was wont to say to all proposals for a 
and this trial of new methods, "It's against my ex- 

Journal, perience, you can't beat a man out of his 

experience." Delivered impressively by a 
man of portly habit that was a "poser," but the nimbler wits of 
youth prompted the reflection that although his experience 
might have touched the educational systems of the five continents 
yet its whole value lay in the conclusions he was able to draw 
from it. Now this interpretation of our experience depends on 
two things: First, on our innate ability, whether it is poor, 
average or first class ; and second on whether our observations in 
any given field have been haphazard or have been directed along 
the lines of what is called by the scientist "the expeiment." 
That is, a problem is clearly recognized and stated, facts bearing 
upon it are gathered, tested for their truth and recorded in order; 
conclusions are then carefully drawn and used as a basis for 
further enquiry. Exactly these processes, used perhaps un- 
consciously, are applied by an acute and orderly mind to the 
conduct of life and the result is what we call a person of sound 

452 



1 909] Editorials 



453 



judgment. But in a definite occupation or business the mental 
process must be aided by the written record, the well-thought 
out plan, the ordered arrangement of materials. The country- 
tanner of two generations ago put his full trust in his inherited 
methods of managing his one vat and he chalked his accounts on 
the door; his son opened a set of books and began to look into 
the methods of rival tanners. His successor of today has at 
his command experts at the head of every department and a 
well appointed laboratory where the results of modem science 
are applied to the improvement and cheapening of his products. 
Now the experience of the middle-aged housekeeper has 
seldom been governed by the limitations of "the experiment." 
Such knowledge as she has is in reality a by-product of a vast 
number of unrecorded and half obser^^ed events. For the more 
exact and vastly more economical gathering of knowledge, by 
methods known to the laboratory, the housewife lacks the train- 
ing, and the outfit, especially the instruments of precision. 
Above all, she presides not over a laboratory, products of which 
are considered of no value except for teaching purposes, but over 
a factory the output of which — good food, clean and attractive 
rooms, suitable clothing and all the rest, — must not fail. By 
any methods known to her, usually those she has inherited, she 
must bring some semblance of these results to pass, and that daily. 
"Can you partially cook your jelly one day and finish it the 
next"? asked a young housekeeper of an older one, "it would 
sometimes be so convenient." 

"I did not dare try it" was the reply, "I never had time to use 
any but the way I knew." 

"Does it pay to sift your ashes?" was the next question. 
"Well, I've thought I'd weigh the cinders and compare with the 
coal. But I've no large scales and then there's the time. I 
hardly think it would pay to hire it done, and yet I'm not sure." 
These and a hundred other practical questions that arise 
daily in any household are not to be answered by the editor of 
the "Woman's Page." Any one of them may be enough to 
engage the attention of a laboratory worker for months before 
the authorative answer can be given. No doubt there were 
people fifty years ago to say, "Why an agricultural experiment 
station? Every farm should be one." But it was found that 
the farmer with his planting, his mowing, and his reaping, his 



454 The Journal of Hoine Economics [December 

stock feeding and his fence -nending, had little time to experi- 
ment on silos and cross fertilization, even had he possessed the 
necessary training and facilities. 

In the same way all that relates to home hygiene and house- 
hold methods afEords a wealth of material that needs careful 
study by trained people having proper equipment in order that 
existing knowledge in the fields of chemical, physical, and 
biological science may be applied to these special problems. 
Much work is available to those who know the results of studies 
in the technical institutes of Europe. The like is being done to 
some extent in our 40 agricultural colleges, the U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture and in such special institutions as the 
Lewis and Armour Institutes, Teachers College and the Pratt 
and Drexel Institutes. Original work, even, is being done by the 
graduating classes in Home Economics, in state and other institu- 
tions, and it is the aim of this Journal to publish these theses 
so far as may be. It has already furnished articles of this kind 
and in our present number we publish three important studies 
of practical subjects. 

We have also in hand studies, similar to those mentioned, on a 
comparison of various cooking utensils and another on the 
adulteration of silk fiber. 

Every intelligent housekeeper should recognize that work of 
this order, although accumulated but slowly, rests on firm 
foundations, and that the results help to provide definite answers 
to the questions which interest her. 

Incidentally it may be mentioned that the need of scientific 
studies made under known conditions is well illustrated by two of 
these very studies. Both represent serious and painstaking effort 
to obtain information on the same general problems; yet at first 
glance the results obtained diflfer in some respects. More careful 
examination of the data, however, reveals as the cause of the 
apparent differences local variations, such as the price of fuel. 
Since in each case these have been recorded, their influence may 
be judged, and erroneous conclusions thereby be avoided. 



AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 
Provisional Program of Second Annual Meeting, Boston. 

Thursday, December jo, igog. 

Meeting of Executive Committee. 9:30 a. m., Hotel West- 
minster. 

Meeting of Council, 2:30 p. m., Mass. Inst. Tech. 
Informal dinner of Council, Thursday evening. 

Friday, December ji, igog. 

General meeting of Association, 9:30 a. m., Simmons College. 

Topic : The Sciences in Relation to Home Economics Courses. 

Among these are: Architecture, Biology, Chemistry, Eco- 
nomics, Physics (Heat, Light), Physiology and Psychology. 

Subscription luncheon, 1:00 p. m., Hotel Westminster. 

Roll call. Reports from the field. 

Section meetings: 3:00 p. m., Simmons College. Adjourned 
meetings in the evening. 

Hospital diecetics. High School Courses, Grade work (methods 
of teaching). Settlement work (methods of teaching). Open-air 
schools. Utilization of Cooked Foods in Lunches, Trade and 
Vocational Teaching, are among the topics to be discussed. 

Saturday January i, igio. 

General Session, 10:00 a. m., Simmons College. ' 

Topics: (i) The Outlook: President's Address; (2) Plans 
of the Executive Committee, by the Secretary; (3) Plans for the 
Journal, by the new editors. 

Election of Officers and Reports of Committees. 

Meeting of the New Council, 2:30 p. m. 

Excursions to places of interest. 

Note — This program may be modified to permit of attendance 
on meetings of interest at the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science and its affiliated societies. 

Hotel headquarters : The Westminster, Trinity Place, Boston. 

Other hotels near are the Copley Square, the Lenox, and the 
Nottingham. The Local Committee will have a register of other 
boarding places. No special railroad 'rates will be provided, 
but reduced rates may be secured by membership in the 
American Association for the Advancement of Science. Associa- 
tion mem.bership fee $3.00. 

Members desiring further information, final program, etc., 
should apply to its Secretary Miss Isabel F. Hyams, 26 Wales 
Street, Dorchester, Mass., or to Mrs. E. H. Richards. 

455 



NEWS FROM INSTITUTIONS. 

Miss Mary F. Rausch, head of the Department of 
Colorado State Domestic Science, writes that a school of agriculture 
Agricultural ^^^ opened on October 5. "This includes both agri- 

College, culture and Domestic Science courses and fits the 

students for home and farm life. There is an enrollment of 155 students, 
of whom >2 are young women. In order to enter this course, students 
must have passed the 8th grade work, and we have many students this 
year who have had one, two or three years of high school work. The 
work is given for three years, from October to April of each year. 

"In our regular college v/ork we have 24 girls. The majority of the girls 
are preparing for teachers, and are taking the four 3'ear course which leads 
to a degree of Bachelor of Science. 

"With the assistance of Miss Allison, instructor in Home Economics in 
this department, I am now working on a bulletin on high altitude cookery. 

"The college is in co-operation with other colleges in working with the 
Beef Producers' Association of the United States. We are trying to 
educate the women in the use of the cheaper cuts of meat, their selection, 
cooking and serving. 

"There are 86 young women enrolled in the college, and 76 are taking 
Home Economics work. The Home Economic Club was organized last 
week with an enrollment of 24. The School of Agriculture Domestic 
Science Club was also organized with an enrollment of 52. 

"The college is working in co-operation with the women's clubs of the 
state, and we are trying to introduce Domestic Science into the public 
schools. This year several of the public schools have started the work. 

"The annual meeting of the Colorado State Federation of Women's 
Clubs was held in Leadville, Colorado in September. We have asked each 
club in the State to devote at least one afternoon during the year to some 
phase of Home Economics work. 

"We have one woman 40 years of age and one over 50, who are taking 
the work in our department." 

, . The Household Science Department announces that 

. ^ through the co-operation of Professor Kinley of the 

Department of Economics and Dean of the Graduate 
School, and Dean Greene, of the College of Literature and Arts, a course in 
household administration will be offered during the coming year. The 
aim of the course is to provide an opportunity for a serious study of the 
problems of home and family life with the emphasis on economics. 

TT • -x ^ A Department of Home Economics has been established 

University of , ^ , . . t>. , r ^i. 

y under very auspicious conditions. Ihe alumnae 01 the 

university are raising $1,000 for equipment, $700 of 

which has been applied to furnishing laboratory and lecture rooms in 

Morrill Hall. 

456 



1909] News from Institutions 457 

Miss Bertha M. Tirrell, formerly of the Hartford School of Religious 
Pedagogy has been chosen to carry on the work. Courses were given 
during the Summer Session, July 1 2-August 7, and four elective courses are 
offered for seniors the present year, which have been generously elected. 
Courses for juniors and seniors and a special course of 2 years have been 
planned with chemistry, bacteriology and advanced physiology as pre- 
requisites which a large number of undergraduate students are preparing 
to take. An extensive course of lectures has been offered in response to 
a request of the teachers of the city and thirty-five have responded. 

The work has been introduced into the university with the enthusiastic 
support of faculty and alumnae and there is promise of a large department 
in the near future. Miss Tirrell's influence is also to be felt outside the 
university walls. She has a class of 24 high school seniors twice a week 
studying shelter, to be followed by courses on clothing and food, and she is 
to speak before the State Horticultural Society and the State Dairyman's 
Association . 

Over 100 have enrolled in the department of Home 
Economics of the College of Agriculture, of whom 54 
University o ^^^ .^ ^^^ long, or four- year course, and about 45 iri 

Wisconsin. ^.^^ general survey and art and design courses which 

are open to election by students in the College of Let- 
ters and Science, and designed for those who desire a general knowledge 
of the subject of Home Economxics. 

The general survey course is given by Prof. Abby L. Marlatt, in charge 
of the department, assisted by Miss Alice Loomis. The course in art 
and design, given by Miss Leona Hope, takes up the study of the funda- 
mental principles of design as applied to problems in household decora- 
tion. Manv of the students enrolled in this course have had previous 
training in Home Economics. 

To quote from a letter from Miss Marlatt : "While there are thirty-two 
electives to be chosen from any of the courses offered by the colleges in 
the University and the intention is to give each student an opportunity 
to choose that which may best develop her peculiar talents yet the choice 
of elections which are advised are chemistry, biology, economics, soci- 
ology, psychology, and education. The special and graduate students 
are doing this, as they all desire to enter the teaching profession. 

"We have one fellowship worker, whose thesis work is to be done in 
bacteriology and home economics. 

"We are in the Agricultural College building now, but hope to be 
located in a few months in our new laboratories in Lathrop Hall." 

. A special train, "The Ranchman's Special," was 

University of ^^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^ university, October 17 over the State. 

Wyoming. ^^ which the Home Economics work was represented 

by Professor Minna X. Stoner, of the Department of Domestic Science. 

The train contained a full exhibit of illustrative material pertaining to 
Domestic Science work, and this attracted a great deal of attention, 
much of it from ranchmen, business and professional men. The economic 



458 The Journal of Home Economics f December 

value of the fireless cooker and the advantage of ventilation in cooking 
in certain utensils were points especially emphasized. Over 1,500 copies 
of State and U. S. Department of Agriculture bulletins on foods and 
related topics were distributed on the trip. 

The laboratory of Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel of the Shef- 
Yale' University, field Scientific School is very popular with teachers of 

Home Economics. There are with him at present : Miss 
Isabel Bevier of the University of Illinois; Miss Louise Stanley, of the 
University of Missouri; Miss Amy L. Daniels, of the Springfield (Mass.) 
Technical High School; Miss Alice F. Blood, of Simmons College and 
Miss Jessamine Chapman of Sweet Briar College, Va. 

i> ur '^^® Domestic Science and Household Arts work in the 
^*^ public schools of this city has been reorganized as a 

special department under the direction of a supervisor. 
It is expected that this will necessitate no radical changes but will 
tend to greater unification of the work. Miss Mary E. Snow, formerly of 
Pratt Institute, has been appointed supervisor and has entered upon her 
duties. 

The Principal of the WilUam Penn High School, Dr. 

. Herrick, has obtained the consent of the Board of Edu- 

cation to establish a well-equipped lunch room. The 

^ ' ' William Penn High School was opened this fall in a 

beautiful new building which accommodates 1,700 pupils. The lunch 

room is situated on the ground floor, on the south side of the building and 

will seat 400 persons. There is also a dining room for the faculty. Miss 

Emma Smedley has been selected to superintend these luncheons and 

expects to begin work at once. 

c 1, I '^^^ Episcopal Church has established a protectory 
f °^C^w"" ° """"^ for children at Verbank. Dutchess Co., N. Y.. 

^^ * '"^"* where in addition to the usual studies, agriculture 

and Home Economics are taught. The children assist in the laundry 
work and the baking for the farm under the direction of Miss Elene E, 
Geer who has charge of instruction of this character. The Right Reverend 

David H. Greer is the president of Hope Farm. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

_ . The formation of a New England Section of the Ameri- 

_ can Home Economics Association was first formally 

_ ^ . considered at a meeting in Boston, May 25. This was 

. called by Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, president of the 

American Home Economics Association, who with Miss 

Sarah Louise Arnold and Miss Abby L. Marlatt of the council, and about 

15 other members of that association, formed the nucleus of vhe gathering. 

Over 70 persons were in attendance, and remarks were made by a large 

number in favor of an organization. A resolution was adopted under 

Tvhich Mrs. Richards became the chairman of a committee to consider the 

details of organization, and report at a meeting in October. 

This adjourned meeting was called to order October 9, by Mrs. Richards 
at Simmons College, Boston, with about 125 in attendance. Greetings 
from President Lefavour of Simmons College were read in his absence, and 
Miss Arnold extended a welcome on his behalf to Simmons College with its 
700 students of whom more than 300 are directly interested in household 
economics. In her remarks Miss Arnold also expressed the deep apprecia- 
tion and gratitude of all to Mrs. Richards for her faithful and unfailing 
attention to the cause of Home Economics and for the work which she has 
accomplished. 

A discussion followed in which Dr. Bracket of the School for Social 
Workers, gave as the reasons for his deep interest in Home Econoniics its 
relation to practical eugenics, and to the higher side of human progress. 

Professor W. D. Hurd, formerly of the University of Maine and recently 
appointed director of short courses at the Massachusetts Agricultural 
College, spoke with special reference to farm conditions. He attributed 
the decaying condition of the average Xew England farm to the attitude of 
the father and mother against farm life. He felt that the safety of the 
nation lay in educating the people on the farms to a real understanding 
and interest in their work. 

Mr. Hollis Godfrey explained in some detail the way in which the 
sciences had been introduced into the Boston Girls' High School of Prac- 
tical Arts. Miss Helen Thompson spoke of what was being done at the 
Rhode Island State College for young women, describing the work as "a 
strong course in the physical sciences with the major line of Home Eco- 
nomics in foods, that is, the study of the question of foods as to the 
constituents, chemical composition, cooking processes, etc., in this way 
more closely relating the work to the manual training schools, and carry- 
ing it into dietetics, normal nutrition, and sociological problems that 
affect the home. " 

Miss Bertha M. Terrill, from the University of Vermont, said that 
though the work was only just started there, the enrollment was over 70 
students and that a large increase was expected. At the op)ening of the 
college year additional courses in chemistry, biology and physiology, a 
course for high school seniors, and a lecture course for teachers had been 
offered to which a great many had responded. 



460 Th^ Journal of Home Economics [December 

Mr. Weaver of the Boston Trade School for Girls, and Master of the 
Girls' High School of Practical Arts, then spoke, saying that from his 
point of view, too many of the shortcomings of our life were thrown back 
on the public schools to be remedied. He sincerely hoped that the 
organization would be not only for teachers but also for people of various 
occupations and professions, in order that they might be united to throw 
light upon the subjecs of Household Economics. 

Mr. Hartman of the Civic League spoke very interestingly of City Health 
and the various civic and individual problems as he saw them as related 
to Home Economics. 

A constitution was adopted as a tentative working basis until the next 
annual meeting in May. The officers chosen were annovinced in the 
October number of the Journal. 

. The Association has planned monthly meetings for 1909 

. . and 1910, the first meeting being held October 30th. 

^ „ The main purpose of this Association is to bring to- 

Gr6&,t6r New 

gether workers in various fields that are closely allied 

with Home Economics. Some definite topic of 

practical import in New York City is selected for discussion, that for the 

first meeting being School Luncheons in New York City. A practical 

experiment in this line is under way, directed by Miss Mabel Kittredge. 

In view of the importance of the subject it is hoped to enlist the support 

of all school principals and teachers and the general public. 

Among the working committees of this Association, that on Publicity 

aims to collect for the members literature of value . At the June meeting, 

for instance, when Dr. Darlington lectured on the work of the Board of 

Health, all the health pamphlets issued by the City were displayed, as 

well as other pamphlets for free distribution, among them those published 

by the U. S. Department of Agriculture. The Committee on Nutrition is 

to investigate dietetic conditions in New York Cit3\ and collect the data 

already in existence. 

^ . ^ Manv queries are received from teachers and others 

Literature on . • , . . , . , . , .^, , ^ 

-, ^, . , mterested in introducmg this work, with regard to a 

Methods of , , , ^ , * x ^ j tm. • 

_ ,. „ book on methods and courses of study. 1 here is very 

Teaching Home , . , ,,.,,., , r , . ■ /, 1 .. ^ 

_. 7 little published in book form, but m the last nve years 

Economics. ■ , j- , ■ ^ ■, j- j- _r- 

material of value is to be found in reports or associa- 
tions and in magazines. The following list gives some of these reports. 
Will those who know of other reports, send the titles, etc., to the Secretary 
of the American Home Economics Association, 525 West 12th Street, 
New York? 

(i) Proceedings Lake Placid Conference on Home Economics, 1908. 
Price $0.50. B. R. Andrews, Secretary A. H. E. A., 525 W. 120th St., N. Y 

(2) Syllabus of Domestic Science for High Schools of Illinois. $0.10. 
Department of Household Science, University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

(3) Course of Instruction, Technical High School, June, 1907. Tech- 
nical High School, Springfield, Mass. 



1909] News from the Field 461 

(4) Board of Education, District of Columbia, 1 908-1909. Outline 
Course of Study in Domestic Science Department. N. T. Elliott Print- 
ing Company, Washington, D. C. 

(5) Fourth Yearbook of the National Society for the Scientific Study 
of Education, Part II. "The Present Status and Future Development of 
Domestic Science Courses in the High School," by Mrs. Richards. The 
University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 111. 

(6) Report of Eastern Manual Training Association, 1904-1905. 
$0.25 to $0.50. Thellwell R. Coggeshall, 1505 Centennial Avenue, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

(7) Manual Training Magazine, April, 1909. $0.35. "Some Phases 
of Household Arts in the Secondary Schools," by Helen Kinne. The 
Manual Arts Press, Peoria, 111. 



Cost of Feeding '^^^ ^^^^ °^ feeding the prisoners in the county jail and 
City Prisoners. ^^°^^ ^" ^^^ '^^^^ prison iii the city and county of San 
Francisco during the nine months ended April i, is 
reported by the Sheriff and Chief of Police respectively to have been as 
follows: In the county jail the average number of prisoners was 360. 
The average cost of feeding and clothing each was 23 cents per day. The 
cost of feeding does not include the board of jailers and guards, the care of 
the van and commissary's horses, etc., which totals about $1 1 ,000 annually 
and which items are charged to the appropriation for maintenance of 
prisoners. The breakfasts furnished consisted on week days of mush and 
syrup, one-half loaf of bread and one and one half pints of coffee. Dinner 
and supper consisted, on Mondays and Wednesdays, of pork and beans, 
I yi pints of bean soup, J loaf of bread and one pint of coffee ; on Tuesdays, 
Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, of lyi pints of vegetable soup, 8 
ounces of meat, potatoes, j 2 loaf of bread and one pint of coffee; and on 
Friday, of 8 ounces of fresh fish or codfish, one-half loaf of bread and 
one pint of coffee. Felony prisoners and those not working are allowed 
but two meals, while those who work are given three. 

In the city prison the average number of prisoners per month was 3,400. 
The average cost of feeding each prisoner three meals per day was 1 4 % 
cents. Their breakfast consisted of i^ pints of coffee. J loaf of bread, 
rolled oats mush and syrup. Dinner was 1 »< pints of vegetable soup, 
8 ounces of meat, potatoes and \ loaf of bread. Supper was 1 K pints of 
tea and J loaf of bread. The Municipal Journal and Engineer, 26 (1 909), 
No. 17, p. 718. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Parcimony in Nutrition, J. Crichton-Browne. Funk and Wagnalls Co, 
London and New York, 1909, pp. vi,-)-iii. 

In this volume the author gives reasons for his belief in a generous rather 
than a low proteid diet, drawing his evidence from personal experience, 
from considerations of public health, from the study of the animal func- 
tions, the effects of undernutrition of school children and of the poor, and 
from the general experience of mankind. 

"The poor have much to learn in the way of economy of food, but it is 
economy in the selection and preparation of food, and not in the lopping 
off of proteid. The urgent question for us today is not how we may . 
teach them to thrive on an attenuated fare, but 'whence shall we buy bread 
that these may eat?' We should aim not at parsimony in nutrition, but 
try to 'scatter plenty o'er a smiling land'." 

Food Values — Practical Methods in Diet Calculations. Bui. Amer. 
School Home Econ. Ser. i, 1909, No. 13, pi. i.figs. 13. 

Professor Irving Fisher's graphic method of calculating dietaries is 
explained. The tables given in his article are reprinted, as the edition 
of the original publication" is exhausted. The bulletin gives data for 
the nutritive \'alue of a large variety of foods both on a uniform basis 
of portions supplying 100 calories of energy, and on the basis of composi- 
tion and energy value per ounce. The latter data are compiled from 
publications of Dr. J. H. Kellogg. 

State Supervision of Restaurants. Amer. Food Jour., 4 (1909), No. 5, 
pp. 16, 17. 

The necessity for such supervision is pointed out and some legislative 
enactments bearing on the subject are referred to. 

Plastering the Outside of Old Dwellings, J. E. Wing, Breeder's Gaz., 55 
(1909), No. 19, pp. 1 1 16, 1 1 17. 

On the basis of experience the author gives directions for covering the 
outside of old wooden buildings with plaster. It is found that such 
treatment is reasonably inexpensive and that they will remain in good 
condition for a long time. 

Country School Houses, J. E. Wing. Breeder's Gaz., 55 (1909), No. 19, 
p. H17. 

Suggestions are given for impro\ements in the construction, ventila- 
tion, etc., of rural school hovises. 

Concrete Construction About the Home and on the Farm (Pamphlet by 
Atlas Portland Cement Co., pp. 127; rev. in Pure products, 6 (1909), No. 5, 
P-279)- 



a J. Am. Med. Assn., 48 (1907). No. 16, pp. 1316-1325. 
462 



»909] Books and Literature 



463 



Method for Measuring the Capillary Absorption of Materials used in 
Construction, M. Pasquale. Ann. Ig. Sper., n. ser.. 19 (1909). \oip^ 

Marble, stone and other materials used in house construction, etc., are 
included in the author's investigation. 

Textile Chemistry and ^Dyeing. L. A. Olney, Chicago. Amer School 
of UDrrespondence. 1909, pp. 11 + 343. ^ -T-uicr. ocnooi 

A manual of instruction in the art of bleaching and dyeing. 
The subjects of the sections are as follows: Chemical Study of the 
Fibres; Scouring the Textile Fibres; Bleaching of Wool; Bleaching of 
Cotton; Classification of Dyes; Application of Acid Dyes; Representa- 
tive Acid Dyes; Testing the Fastness of Colors; Application of Basic Dyes 
to Wool and Silk; Basic Dyes on Cotton; Representative Basic Dyes- 
AppUcation of Substantive Dyes to Cotton; Substantive Dyes on Wool and 
Silk; Representative Substantive Dyes on Cotton; Application of Mordant 
Dyes to Wool; Developed Dyes on Cotton and Silk; Sulphur Dyes on 
Cotton; Use of Logwood in Dyeing; The Minor Natural Dyes- The 
Mmeral Dyestufis; The Vat Dyes; The Testing of Dyestuffs; Chemical 
Reactions of Dyestuffs; MisceUaneous Tests in Dyeing; Testing the 
Fastness of Colors; and Analysis of Textile Fabrics. An appendix 
presents Useful Data for Dyers and Textile Chemists. 

Laboratory Manual of Dyeing and Textile Chemistry. Bv T Merritt 

HalV'lTH'' ^^•'' « -^'^ ^°^^' J°^" '^^^>' ^ Sons; London L^apmaT& 
Hall, Ltd., 1909, 8vo., pp. xu + 363. i"-^o.u. «. 

"This volume is designed with the purpose of meeting the demand for 
a text-book on the subject of textile dyeing and chemistry. The 

subject treated is a technical one.and an endeavor has been made to present 
It m a technical manner; that is to say, definite facts have been presented 
in a definite form. For this purpose, the experimental method has been 
adopted, further elucidation being given in additional notes as succinctly 
expressed as possible. The insertion of quiz questions has also been ear- 
ned out in order to stir up the thought of the student after he has per- 
formed the manual experiment." 

"This book is intended as an elementary manual for the students who 
are pnmarily to be found in the various textile schools and in institutions 
where the many branches of technical chemistry are taught. It is hoped 
that it will be of some value to both the student and the teacher. It is 
primarily a laboratory manual or guide, and is intended to direct and 
supplement the lectures of the teacher, and should be used in conjunction 
with the more general treatises on the subject." 

"The subject matter is divided in such a manner as to provide a course of 
instruction for one complete college year, each section corresponding to a 
weekly apportionment of study." 

p. '^^1^^^°^ °* ^^"°^' ^- ■"• ^'^^^^' ^^»^- N^'> 99 (1909), No. 2576. 
An interesting theoretical discussion of dyeing textile fibers. 



TX Journal of home economics 
1 

J7 
v.l 

Fooo 

Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



