TX 715 
.H2414 
Copy 1 



MAZDAZNAN 

ENCYCLOPEDIA 
21 DIETETICS 

AND 

HOME COOK BOOK 

COOKED AWD UNCOOKED FOODS 
WHATTO EAT andHOWTO EAT IT 



DR O. E. HANISH 



f LIBRARY OF CONGRE& 




LISMED BY 



n4557H75 30CIATES OF GOD 

^ \GO, ILL. 

1909 




Class _1XtJ-5_ 
Goppghtlj" 

COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



MAZDAZNAN 

ENCYCLOPEDIA 
E DIETETICS 



AND 



HOME COOK BOOK 

COOKED AND UNCOOKED FOODS 
WHAT TO EATand HOW TO EAT IT 



'Pick out what's best, 
Nature will do the rest.'' 



ffittb Bbition 



PUBLISHED BY 

MAZDAZNAN ASSOCIATES OF GOD 

CHICAGO, ILL. 



1909 



<%^ 



Copyright 1909 

by 

O. Z. HANISH 

Chicago, 111. 



©CLA251853 



PREFACE. 



Since the reprint of the third edition of the Mazdaznan 
Encyclopedia of Dietetics and Home Cook Book the 
plates have been destroyed by fire, we cared not to 
have the book reset unless we could add some matter that 
would cover the ground more completely. Engaged in so 
many diverse pursuits it was impossible for us to yield 
even to the enormous demands for a cook book. We have 
added much valuable information in this modest volume, 
and if given consideration in a truly reflective thought 
the good counsel herein given cannot fail to produce 
good results. We consider this work the only one 
of its kind making domestic science with its culinary 
department a scientific study, destined to revolutionize our 
methods of living, leading eventually to the solution of 
economic problems individuahstic and social. 

The Mazdaznan Home Cook Book is in accordance to 
the teachings of the philosophy and science of healing and 
health thru scientific care of the body and control of mind. 
If eat we must, may we select only what is most [con- 
ducive to growth, development, unfoldment and maturity. 
Bestowing the Blessings of Peace and 
Prosperity unto Perfection in all things. 
We are most humbly, 

Chicago, 1909. OTOMAN, 

Prince of Adusht. - 



MAZDAZNAN 

Encyclopedia of Dietetics 

AND 

Home Cook Book. 



GRAINS 

AND THEIR VALUE. 

AS long as man is made up of innumerable intelli- 
gences and collective elementaries to perform the 
work for which he is intended by Nature, and as 
long as self preservation will continue to be the first law 
in Nature, just that long he has to continue to draw upon 
the two factors in life to perpetuate his state, and these 
two factors or provinces are breath, which sustains his 
intellect, and nutrition^ which perpetuates his physical pro- 
pensities. 

Breath imparts the knowledge of things and upholds 
instinct in the grosser, and intuition, blended with reason in 
the more cultured, leading one's senses to make such selec- 
tions from the immense storehouse of bountiful nature as 
to sustain the organic functions in their healthful state. 

While fruits are of excellent tonic and vegetables are 
largely eliminators, neither of them contain enough nutri- 
tious value to sustain energy and vitality, altho man may 
live on them to a goodly old age. The *'staif of life'' owing 
to the concentrated nature of compounds basic in their 

5 



make up, will continue to be held by the grains, of which 
there are numerous varieties to select from and which are 
of inestimable value in their time and season as well as 
climatic conditions. There are times when one should 
have barley and at another time oats or rye, again we 
should alternate with corn and rice, buckwheat and wheat 
and so forth. Still the zvheat will continue to remain the 
main product in any clime filling the bill of fare sustain- 
ing perfect health. 

The wheat, as well as all other grains, is an improve- 
ment due to the ingenuity of man prompted by inspira- 
tion. But altho most grains are homogeneous to this 
planet in a wilder state, the wheat is a cross of grains per- 
fected by the world-renowned agriculturist and horticul- 
turist, Zarathushtra, who lived many thousands of years 
before Plato, according to Greek chronology. 

Upon thoro examination and analysis, it is found that 
the wheat contains all the essential ingredients correspond- 
ing to the elements of the human anatomy. The arrange- 
ment of its various qualities is of such a nature that, be- 
ginning at the glume as its life center and following layer 
upon layer to its outer coating, every element conducive 
to health is embodied, performing or assisting the organs 
of the body to perform the diverse functions as com- 
manded by Nature. In the glume we find the soluble 
phosphates in quantities sufficient to quicken the ganglionic 
system; next to it, in the inner halves, something likened 
to the ovaries, and which constitutes the greater portion 
of the kernel, are the starches and albumin, imparting heat 
and energy; inclosing these ovaries are the nitrogenous 
substances so necessary for the sustenance of the muscular 
tissues ; encircling it all like unto a protecting layer of the 
skin are seed coats containing potassium, sodium, calcium, 
and sucn salts that assist to convert starch into sugar and 
consequently quicken digestion and promote assimilation ; 
the layer next to this contains such fixed phosphates, sul- 
phur, silicon, chlorine and other minerals which sustain 
the bones, teeth, sinews, etc. ; the outer skin has Iron, 
magnesium and such minerals that are absolutely neces- 
sary to promote peristaltic action, assuring proper flushing 
of the system, giving zest and vigor to the allmentaries, a 

6 



condition absolutely necessary to sustain harmonic opera- 
tions thruout the more deHcate system, assuring mental 
brightness and sustaining man in his premise that wiU 
keep him in tune with the Infinite. 

Altho thru manifold processes, predigestive and of elec- 
trification, all other grains may be improved to take the 
place of wheat, the latter will continue to hold its own, 
owing to the fact that no process can be devised to im- 
prove upon what Nature has so fully determined in the 
crystallizing of organized elements. Even as no waters 
can be distilled to a point to equal fruits, so no preparing, 
however scientific, can turn other grains to a point as 
highly developed as wheat. Wheat for this reason has 
become the ideal food of man for thousands of years and 
has ever been the ambrosia, the manna of heaven, unto 
the health of the nations. 

The discovery of wheat has been made quite early in 
the history of man and the fact became generally known 
that it was indeed the most balanced and most nutritious 
of all grain foods, supplying in natural proportion all the 
properties so essential to the building and development of 
perfect health in the human body. 

Once the full value of wheat and its treatment in pre- 
paring dishes is realized, man will be able to simplify his 
methods of living to the extent of realizing the words of 
our Greater Teacher that "man lives not for food alone, 
but the very word which proceedeth from the mouth of 
God.'* Yea, man will know that there are greater enjoy- 
ments, more healthful to the body, and by far more 
ecstatic experiences conducive to the unfoldment of treas- 
ures latent in the mind, than those induced by eating and 
drinking, and then again to his senses shall be recalled the 
wonderful words of the Master, saying: 'The Kingdom 
of God does not consist of mere eating and drinking." 

With the application of a little ingenuity one can soon 
learn to prepare innumerable grain dishes which will com- 
pletely fill the bill ; and alternately used in regular order, 
and in addition with them partake of such vegetables and 
fruits that are in season, man has the assurance of reach- 
ing the goal he strives after — perfect health, prolonged 
happiness, a. harmonious home. 

7 



BREAD MAKING. 

The most important problem which confronts the health- 
seeker is that of bread-making. Unless acquainted with 
the chemistry of cookery, erroneous ideas and actions 
often lead to the production of an article fit only for a 
Catling gun. An old aphorism has it that "bread is the 
staff of life," but bread as it is made to-day by the major- 
ity of housewives could fittingly be dubbed the ''staff of 
death." With reference to the aphorism, we might sug- 
gest its analysis. ''Staff of life" would literally mean 
"supporting life," and in this sense it would be advisable 
to know the kinds of bread which are and are not life- 
supporting, that discrimination may the more easily be 
made. 

The bread used by the majority of American and 
European people is made from white wheat flour, or fine 
flour, and contains 75 per cent starch. As there is no 
nutriment in starch, this kind of bread leads to partial 
starvation. Many physical and mental derangements may 
be traced to its excessive use. Budding manhood and 
>vomanhood subjected to the strain of school-room work, 
often reaps as its reward the blighting touch of brain 
fever instead of a meritorious education when nerve force 
is depleted by partaking unwisely of carbonaceous foods. 
Children should not be given white bread, especially when 
spread with butter. It acts as a slow poison to their sys- 
tems and lays the foundation for untimely ill health. 

All superfine flours, such as High Patent, Fancy Patent, 
and numerous others now on the market, are sadly de- 
ficient in food values, which have been lost in the milling 
process, and it is neither profitable nor safe to use them 
to any extent in bread-making (biscuits and hot cakes are 
included in the category). 

There is a white flour called "low-grade," procured gen- 

8 



erally only at a flouring mill, which contains good food 
value. It is a creamy yellow in color, and if properly 
used will make nutritious bread. The cost is less than 
one-half that of the ''high patent," and it is far superior 
as a food, tho, of course, somewhat inferior to the whole- 
wheat or graham flour. 

Most graham flour on the market is merely a blending 
of patent flour and coarse bran. 

Whole-wheat flour is not truly whole wheat, but is 
merely called so because of the demand for whole-wheat 
flour. The whole of the wheat ground never makes fully 
pure white flour, but is rather yellowish and when baked 
into bread is of a dark color. 

The whole wheat ground in a Mazdaznan Mill will give 
better satisfaction in the making of bread than any flour 
ground in a regular mill, unless that mill uses the old- 
fashioned stones for grinding purposes. But even then 
the flour should be used while it is fresh and not be 
exposed to air and moisture. 

For daily use unfermented bread only should be used 
for food, as yeast bread increases the fermentative action, 
destroying the life-giving properties of the food and forc- 
ing alcoholic productions upon the organism which proves 
detrimental to the heart, consequently the nervous system. 

After a little practice it will become just as easy to 
make the unfermented as it is to make yeast bread. 

The secret of making unfermented bread, and making 
it light and sweet, is to have fresh flour, using it while 
warm. Metal burrs affect the grain in grinding to a great 
degree, especially when the metal becomes heated during 
the milling process, consequently only as much grain as 
needed is to be ground. 

It is an established fact that corn which has been ground 
in an old-fashioned mill will rise when baked even with- 
out baking powder, and, in fact, be lighter and more pal- 
atable than corn ground in roller mills. Roller-ground 
corn necessitates the use of baking powder, and when 
used for such purpose never comes up to the old-fash- 
ioned corn bread. What is true of corn and wheat is also 
true of every other grain and cereal. 

It has been demonstrated by chemical analysis and in- 

9 



numerable experiments that wheat contains all the ele- 
ments necessary to sustain life indefinitely. By the use of 
whole-wheat and graham flour the "staff of life" will ever 
be at hand to stay the presence of the "grim destroyer." 
Many new brands of such flour are now on the market, 
all possessing points of merit. Equal proportions of bolted 
flour and middling, or shorts, will make a fine bread. 

Next to wheat, as food grains, come rye and barley. 
Barley, tho rich in nitrogenous matter, is deficient in true 
gluten, and must therefore be mixed with either wheat or 
rye to make good bread. Rye contains more saccharine 
than does either wheat or barley, and its nitrogenous mat- 
ter is closely allied to casein, making it an admirable food. 

Oats as a food can be considered as such only during 
cold weather, or in the northern clime, but even then it 
must be combined with enough vegetables or fruits to 
eliminate its heating properties. Combined with other 
grains, it serves a good purpose in its own season. Oat- 
meal porridge, unless cooked in a double boiler for from 
five to seven hours, is practically indigestible and exceed- 
ingly harmful to children. 

Buckwheat should be used sparingly on account of its 
heating properties. It will overheat the blood and cause 
skin eruptions unless combined with the free use of large 
quantities of fruit. 

Rice, when unpolished, serves as an excellent article of 
food, and combined with fruits and vegetables is equal 
in nourishing properties to that of v/heat, providing it is 
not swamp-raised. Polished rice, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, 
etc., are from 75 to 90 per cent starch and may be used 
sparingly when combined with foods of greater value. 

Maize, or Indian corn (yellow variety), is rich in car- 
bon in the form of oil, and very valuable as food in colcf 
climates for generating bodily heat. Little, if any, should 
be eaten in summer. Corn meal readily spoils because of 
the ease with which the fatty matter undergoes oxidation. 
White, or southern, corn contains less oil and may be used 
as food at all times of the year, tho with less benefit than 
wheat or rye. 

The use of yeast in bread-making is not advisable un- 
less baking is thoro. The process of fermentation, when 

10 



not checked by sufficient heat during baking, continues 
after the bread has been taken into the stomach, and when 
that organ is in a weakened condition great distress is a 
result. Statements have been erroneously made that the 
yeast plant is destroyed during baking, but if investigation 
is made it will be found that the crust is practically the 
only portion of a loaf of bread which is entirely free from 
ferment. All this may be demonstrated by soaking a 
piece of white yeast bread in a cup of warm water for 
four hours and noting the changes which take place. 

White yeast bread should not be eaten unless it has 
been toasted to a golden brown in a moderate oven, but 
not on top of the stove. The browning process changes 
the starch to dextrin, which is nutritious and easily di- 
gested, and also effectively destroys the ferment. 

Scientific investigation has shown that the excessive use 
of white yeast bread is one of the prime causes of inebri- 
ety. As there is a considerable amount of alcohol in this 
kind of bread, its use creates a morbid craving for ardent 
liquors. This accounts for the reason why many persons 
are wedded to white yeast bread like a bibber to the morn- 
ing glass. Should those sanctimonious, motherly souls, 
working so diligently in the ranks of the Temperance So- 
cieties, turn their attention toward the exclusion of meat, 
yeast bread and starch foods from the family table, intem- 
perance would be a thing of the past. 

Our confinement to white bolted flour foods and bake- 
wares has driven man to the excessive use of fleshmeats. 
Our forefathers used very little or no flesh because they 
had wholesome bread, which constituted the *'staf¥ of 
life;" they used vegetables in season and made good use 
of fruit juices, fermented and unfermented. Give us good 
bread and whole-grained foods, eaten in moderate quanti- 
ties, and the flesh pots of Egypt will be left behind even 
as Israel left a state of bondage. 

Hot bread, rolls and biscuits for supper are synonymous 
with "midnight visions," delightful sensations in the epi- 
gastrium, and timely visits from the family doctor. A 
word to the wise is sufficient. 

The "sour-dough" method of bread-making should be 
decried. It is indelicate, and savors of degeneration. The 

11 



same may be said of "soured-batter" hot cakes. Cooking 
changes conditions to a certain extent, but does not rem- 
edy the evil. The human stomach is not a fitting recep- 
tacle for such ferment, it having passed beyond that stage 
eons ago. 

Baking powders, as a rule, are not blessed with purity, 
and most of their effervescing properties are due to the 
presence of alum and ammonia, both highly injurious to 
the system. Pure baking powder is composed of tartaric 
acid and bicarbonate of soda, and the mixture of these 
two chemicals forms rochelle salts. The habitual use of 
bread made with this agent, tho it might be termed medi- 
cated, is very unhealthful, producing dyspepsia, and vari- 
ous stomach ailments. 

''Sour-milk-and-soda" may be classed with the objec- 
tionable methods of bread-making. It is almost impossible 
to judge the correct quantity of each article to use, and 
an excess of either will result in a disordered stomach. 

Flour should be kept dry, and the least dampness will 
affect it. Bread made with milk will be whiter and better 
than that made with water. The milk should be boiled, 
not heated, and not allowed to get below lukewarm tem- 
perature. Milk bread needs little or no shortening, and 
less flour is required than when water is used. An earthen 
vessel should be used in preference to wood or tin, as it 
can be kept cleaner and will preserve the temperature of 
the ''sponge" better. 

Salt rising bread is highly recommended, but it requires 
some practice to make good wholesome bread. 

Potato bread may be used with safety, providing pota- 
toes are of a mealy kind and equal quantities of milk and 
hot water are used, adding one tablespoonful of sugar to 
every one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, making it all into 
thin batter, allowing it to stand in a warm place for an 
hour before turning it into a sponge cake batter. To four 
medium-sized potatoes one tablespoonful sugar.^ 

We used to make a very fine bread by mixing seconds 
with middling or shorts, and with a vegetable or a fruit 
in season had greater endurance and a happier time than 
all the daintily and scientifically prepared foods could sug- 
gest. 

12 



BREAD. 

PROMOTIVE BREAD. 

Grind up* three-quarters of a pound of seeded raisins, 
one-quarter of a pound of figs, with three tablespoonfuls 
of flaxseed; add two pounds of coarse flour and mix and 
bake in same manner as unfermented bread. Use fresh 
when quick relief is desired, otherwise stale bread is ad- 
vised. Slice it into one-half-inch slices and expose to the 
sun before putting into bread box. For constipation trou- 
bles, very good. Do not use this bread during periods or 
their consequence. 

UNFERMENTED WHOLE- WHEAT BREAD. 

Grind wheat grain in a Mazdaznan Grain Mill. Grind 
it medium coarse. Grind as much as you expect to use, 
as fresh-ground flour will rise more readily and retain its 
natural aroma and sweetness. Take a quart of lukewarm 
water, one tablespoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar 
and two tablespoonfuls cooking or olive oil. Stir the flour 
into the liquid until it forms a light paste. Stir rapidly 
and thoroly. Cover the dish with a cloth and set in a 
moderately cool place for from three to six hours in 
accordance to the season. The partly coarse wheat will 
swell and become aerated, consequently making the dough 
light. When ready for working the dough, add a little 
finer-ground flour and knead it with your hands for about 
half an hour, until it becomes gummy and rolls up like 
a ball, but it should not be stiff. Put into well-oiled 
pans which are covered or sealed. Fill pans not more 
than two-thirds. Place the pans at once in a moderately 
heated oven. Let the bread bake for three hours before 
moving it. It should bake for at least four hours. It is 
well to have a little tin can filled with water at one comer 
of the oven, which will improve the baking of the bread 
by virtue of moistened heat (steam). If you want a soft 

13 



crust, roll bread in a wet cloth for one to two minutes as 
soon as it comes out of the oven, or brush it with a brush 
dipped in water and then rub off with the beaten white 
of an tgg. When cold wrap the bread in wax or oiled 
paper, seal and put away or put bread into an earthenware 
crock, set in a dry place, keeping crock covered with 
paper. This bread thoroly baked will improve with 
age. It digests easily and promotes action more readily 
than any other food. 

SWEET BREAD. 

Grind two-thirds of a pound of seeded raisins in your 
vegetable grinder. Take a quart of lukewarm water, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two or more spoonfuls of almond or 
olive oil (or any vegetable oil), stir it all together in the 
water, and until the raisins seem to be all dissolved. 
Then stir into it home-ground wheat (partly coarse) until 
all forms quite a firm consistency. Cover the dish with 
a cloth and allow it to stand over night. Then knead the 
same as you would when making the plain unfermented 
Oriental bread. Bake in a slow oven for two to two and 
one-half hours in covered pans. The above dough may 
be used for fritters by adding a well-beaten egg to the 
consistency and frying it in plenty of hot olive or vege- 
table oil. 

ORIENTAL FRUIT BREAD. 

To one quart of lukewarm water add a pinch of salt 
and a small teacupful of olive oil. Wash and seed a 
pound of dates, put all or nearly all of them in the water. 
Grind your wheat very coarse on a Mazdaznan Mill and 
add enough of it to the above to make it like chicken feed. 
Do not have it too moist. Prepare it at night before 
going to bed. In the morning put in the rest of the dates 
and about half a pound of the seeded raisins. Work it 
into the consistency of gum. Do it with your hands. Use 
covered pans. Put a little of the dough into the pan and 
sprinkle with raisins. On top of this put in more dough 
and again raisins and so on until all of it is in the pan. 
Cover the pan and set in an oven of slow fire. Place a 
big pan on bottom of the oven, fill with water, putting the 

14 



grate on it, and on this place your bread pan. Keep the 
lower pan always filled with water. You may bake this 
bread for six hours. It will be perfectly soft and exceed- 
ingly palatable. To steam it you may put it in pails and 
hang them in the boiler, but be careful that no water gets 
into your bread pails, and boil for six hours. Sometimes 
it is well to add a little water and work the flaxseed in. 
Always grind your own flaxseed, and if you want the 
bread to be sweet, without any aftertaste, use the whole 
flaxseed. This bread will answer many demands by those 
of organic complications as well as others. Sliced and 
toasted, this bread will make rich blood. 

BREAKFAST BREAD. 

Wheat soaked for several hours, then steamed for two 
or more hours, then mashed to a pulp and when cool 
mixed with enough flour to roll out into layers and baked 
in a quick oven, will prove an Ideal food. 

BREAD STICKS. 

Take two cupfuls of milk, one well-beaten egg, one 
small teaspoonful of salt, three cupfuls of whole-wheat 
flour, freshly ground on the Mazdaznan Mill, one tea- 
spoonful of oil, or sterilized butter. Beat the mixture out 
in the open air, if possible, for three-quarters of an hour, 
or until it cleaves from the pan, and put immediately 
into hot breadstick irons and bake for thirty minutes in 
a hot oven. The above mixture is suflicient to fill the 
irons No. 22 E. These sticks are particularly suitable for 
dyspeptic and constipated persons. 

ORIENTAL CORN BREAD. 

Bring one pint of water, salted to taste, to a boil. Stir 
enough meal into it slowly to make a thick mush. Take it 
off the fire and beat it hard with a spoon. After it has 
become somewhat cool, beat into it two or three yolks of 
eggs, adding a little oil or clarified butter to it. Beat the 
whites of eggs thoroly and now stir them into the consist- 
ency perfectly. Oil the pan, put the batter into same and 
bake for half an hour in hot oven. 

15 



FRUIT BREAD. 

Grind one-half pound each of raisins, of figs, of coarsely 
ground wheat, one-fourth pound of skinned raw peanuts, 
two drams of gum arabic dissolved in enough rain or 
distilled water or fruit juices to moisten these ingredients 
and roll them out into a stiff consistency. It is best to 
cream the raisins, the figs and the nuts with the flour 
separately so as to be able to spray with water the 
consistency while rolling out. Make into strips, one by 
six inches, and bake in the hot sun on oiled papers until 
crisp and dry. Put up in oiled papers will keep. One 
stick after dinner will prove a good dessert, as it will 
assist digestion and promotion. 



PROMOTION FOOD. 

To every quart of coarsely ground flour or half-and- 
half bolted flour and middling, take one-half a pint of 
finely ground raw peanuts, add two heaping teaspoonfuls 
of sugar and a small teaspoonful of salt. Knead into a 
light consistency and bake in the form of sticks or flat 
cakes in a fairly hot oven. In summer may be baked 
in the sun. Sunbaked bread acts on liver more mildly 
and cures constipation after six weeks' use. 



NEILY BREAD. 

To three cups of freshly ground wheat add one-half cup 
of milk or cream and just enough cold water to make a 
thick batter. It is well to stir the dough much and 
quickly. Get muflin pans real hot and well oiled. Fill 
to the top with the thick batter. Set in top of very hot 
oven, for ten minutes, then lower the heat and allow to 
bake thirty minutes longer. Kept in dry place will keep 
indefinitely. By wetting them with ice water and re- 
turning to oven for a few minutes they will always taste 
as if fresh. This kind of bread is liked by children and 
they thrive on it exceptionally. 

16 



CORN BATTER BREAD. 

Put one-half a pint of buttermilk in a pan and stir into 
it two teacupfuls of white cornmeal. Dissolve one-half 
teaspoonful of soda in one-half cupful of milk and stir 
this into the above gradually. Now add two well-beaten 
eggs, one teaspoonful of oil and enough salt to taste. 
Bake slowly until brown. 

SALT-RAISED BREAD. 

Pour upon a teacupful of milk sufficient boiling water 
to bring it to blood temperature, about 90 degrees F., — 
higher temperature will result in failure — add one-fourth 
teaspoonful each of salt and sugar; stir in one large table- 
spoonful cornmeal, or graham flour, and two teaspoonfuls 
wheat flour; mix all together to consistency of pancake 
batter and set to rise by placing bowl containing the bat- 
ter in warm water; should water gather on top, dust in 
a little flour and stir. If set in the early morning it will 
rise at noon. Mix as other bread, put in earthenware 
pans if possible, and let stand until light, when it is 
ready for the oven. If used with plenty of fruit it will 
not be harmful. Be sure not to use drinks of any kind 
when using salt-raised or yeast bread. 

TABLE BREAD. 

To two quarts flour add one teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful sugar, two tablespoonfuls clarified butter, or pure 
olive oil or nut meal. Mix one-half cake hop or com- 
pressed yeast with one pint lukewarm water, previously 
boiled, pour into middle of flour while stirring with 
wooden spoon until proper consistency for dough is at- 
tained, using more flour or water as may be needed. 
Knead the mass for half an hour or more. If properly 
stirred and kneaded it will rise to double its size in four 
hours. Knead again with a little flour, shape into loaves 
and place into well-oiled warm pans. When sufficiently 
raised, place in heated oven, adding heat after fifteen 
minutes' baking. Bake one hour. When done take out of 
pans and brush with water or milk. 

17 



POTATO BREAD. 

Take five boiled potatoes, put thru a colander, add two 
and one-half quarts lukewarm water, one cake yeast foam 
thoroly dissolved in one-half cupful lukewarm water, 
sufficient flour to make the thickness of sponge cake. 
Beat ten minutes and put into warm place to rise over 
night. In the morning add one tablespoonful salt, two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, ''low-grade flour" enough to make 
stiif dough. Put on breadboard, with flour to prevent 
sticking, then knead with knuckles and fists for half an 
hour. Put in warm place to rise; do not cover. When 
light, shape into loaves without kneading. When loaves 
are in pan, run a fork thru them several times. When 
sufficiently raised, bake in hot oven for forty-five minutes, 
then change position of pans and bake fifteen minutes 
longer. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

To one quart ''sponge" add two parts graham flour, a 
little Indian meal, salt. Wet up, mix, add half a teacup- 
ful of molasses to a loaf. Have the dough very soft. 
Knead well and set to rise. It takes longer to rise and 
longer to bake than white bread. Bake in a steady oven 
for about two hours. 

WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD. 

Make "sponge" from one-half cupful lukewarm water, 
one cupful white flour and one-half cake yeast dissolved 
in one-fourth cupful lukewarm v/ater; cover and set in a 
warm place, about 90 degrees F., until light and foamy. 
Add one-half cupful scalded milk cooled to lukewarm, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, sufficient whole-wheat flour to 
make a stiff dough. Knead thoroly, mold into a loaf, 
put in a warm buttered pan, cover closely and set in a 
warm place until it rises to double its size, then put in a 
hot oven. After fifteen minutes lower the temperature 
and continue baking for one hour. 

Rye and graham flour made the same way, but require 
longer baking. 

18 



ANISE ZWIEBACK. 

Beat the white of five eggs, add yolks beaten with one- 
half pound of sugar; stir in same direction for twenty 
minutes until a perfect cream. Add one teaspoonful of 
anise seeds and one-half pound of flour. Stir together 
until smooth. Bake in long, narrow tins with rounded 
bottoms in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When 
partly cooled, cut with sharp knife into slices of three- 
quarters of an inch each, and brown in oven. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Take one pint each of whole-wheat flour and southern 
white cornmeal, one teaspoonful baking powder, one teas- 
poonful of salt; mix thoroly and add one-half pint sweet 
buttermilk or sweet milk, one-half pint sweet almond milk, 
one cupful pure maple syrup, or sorghum, one cupful seed- 
less raisins. Beat well together and put into buttered 
double-boiler and steam four hours, then brown in hot 
oven. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Take one pint of white ''sponge" and add one and one- 
half quarts of fresh graham flour, one tablespoonful sugar, 
one tablespoonful salt, and sufBcient lukewarm water to 
form a stiff batter. Knead it thoroly for about half an 
hour. Set to rise at an even temperature ; when light, 
knead into loaves, using sufficient white flour ; let rise to 
about double the size and bake one hour in hot oven. 
Have your pans well oiled or buttered. Do not mix bat- 
ter over night. 

RYE BREAD. 

Make ''sponge" of one quart warm water, one cake 
compressed yeast (or one teacupful wet yeast), thicken 
by adding sufficient rye flour to make a batter; put in a 
warm place to rise over night; in the morning scald one 
pint cornmeal and when cool add to "sponge." Stir in 
sufficient rye flour to make a dough thick enough to 
knead; knead very little, put in deep pans, let rise again, 
then put into oven and bake one and one-half hours. 

19 



GEMS AND PANCAKES. 

In making good gems and pancakes it is necessary to 
use a cold vessel, and all the ingredients to be used should 
be as cold as possible. The batter should be made in a 
cool place or out of doors in the shade. 

Everything in the line of unfermented breadstuffs must 
be cold, except the oven or the oil baked in. 

In bread-making the rule is to have everything warm, 
even the water. But if you want good gems or pancakes, 
use ice water, iced eggs, and iced fruits. 

Pancakes may be eaten by the most sensitive stomachs, 
and invalids, provided the batter is made in a manner 
given, and particularly v/ell aired, which requires quick 
beating in the cold air. 

We make pancakes in the midst of winter before a 
cold open draft and without the use of any powders or 
sodas ; they rise and swell by far more than if cream of 
tartar were used. 

We do not recommend any of the prepared baking 
powders or sodas in foods, but do consider them, as well 
as many other mineral compounds, as remedial agents in 
cases of emergency, and where used judiciously. 

In the summer it is well to ice everything and, instead 
of using eggs, would recommend albumen products. 

In kidney, bladder and stomach troubles we would 
advise to leave eggs and albumen out entirely for a 
time, and where water is to be used to make batter, al- 
ways dissolve four drams of gum arable to the pint of 
water. 

Eat foods so prepared that they act as a medicine at 
the same time. 

20 



CORN MUFFINS. 

Two cupfuls white cornmeal, one teaspoonful baking 
powder, two eggs well beaten, one and one-half pints 
sweet milk; stir well together and bake in hot buttered 
pans for thirty minutes. 

WHOLE-WHEAT MUFFINS. 

Three cupfuls whole-wheat flour, two teaspoonfuls pure 
baking powder, mix by sifting thoroly. Put one beaten 
egg in one and one-half pints milk, add one tablespoonful 
melted butter, then stir into the dry mixture. Bake in gem 
pans in hot oven for twenty-five minutes. 

GRAHAM AND RYE GEMS. 

To one or two cupfuls of graham or rye meal add two 
teaspoonfuls of pure baking pov/der, one cupful sweet milk, 
two tablespoonfuls melted butter; stir quickly and bake in 
gem pans twenty-five minutes. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Cream together one-half cup of butter and one cup of 
sugar; add one cup of milk, two beaten eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon (or one-quarter of a nutmeg, finely 
grated, for a change), and one pint of flour that has been 
sifted with a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Add 
enough flour to make a soft dough. Roll into a sheet 
nearly an inch thick and cut into shapes with a cutter. 
Fry to a golden brown in a kettle of boiling oil. In 
taking them out be careful not to pierce with a fork ; 
drain on soft brown paper. 

HEALTH MUFFINS. 

To two cupfuls of whole-wheat flour add one-half tea- 
spoonful of fine salt, stir well and add two yolks of eggs 
well beaten, one and one-half cupfuls of sweet milk. 
After stirring for a while add the whites of two eggs, 
beaten to a froth, and gently fold them in. Bake in quick 
oven for twenty-five minutes. 

21 



BEATEN BISCUITS. 

Into one quart of flour rub three tablespoonfuls of 
butter or vegetable oil, one tablespoonful of sugar and 
one teaspoonful of salt ; add enough milk or water to 
make a stiff dough. Lay it on a floured breadboard and 
beat until it blisters and cracks loudly. Roll out, cut and 
prick with fork and bake in rather quick oven. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Beat thoroly one egg and add to it ice-cold sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful of butter or vegetable oil, one 
heaping teaspoonful of sugar, one small teaspoonful of 
salt, two scant teaspoonfuls of egg baking powder, 
sprinkle flour enough to make a thick batter, or as 
heavy cream. 

QUICK BISCUITS. 

To one quart of fresh flour (if not fresh, expose to 
sunlight or dry in a moderate oven) add two teaspoonfuls 
of ice-cold vegetable oil or butter, one tablespoonful of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of salt; stir well and add 
slowly one and one-third cupfuls of milk. Mix quickly, 
roll out to thickness of one-half of an inch. Cut, and 
bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

POPOVERS. 

To one and one-third cups of flour add one teaspoonful 
of salt and one-half teaspoonful of baking powder; sift 
it all well and add two well-beaten eggs, one teaspoonful 
of melted butter or oil, two cupfuls of sweet milk. Pour 
this mixture over flour and strain into hot and well-oiled 
gem pans. Bake in very hot oven for fifteen minutes. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two cups of white cornmeal, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of oil 
or butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. (If you 
cream the butter or oil with the flour thoroly, then add 

22 



sugar and salt, the baking powder will not be necessary.) 
Now add quickly two well-beaten eggs and two cupfuls 
of milk. Bake at once in quick oven for thirty minutes. 

CORN PONE. 

Take one quart yellow cornmeal, one-half pint white 
wheat flour, one teaspoonful each of salt and baking 
powder, one tablespoonful clarified butter or olive oil, 
one egg] add sufficient sweet milk to make a soft dough. 
Put in oiled bread pan and spread over top one-half cup 
thick cream. Bake to a dark brown in hot oven. 

PRAIRIE GEMS. 

Take three cups of well-sifted flour. Be sure to use 
an earthenware or china bowl which you warm before 
sifting flour into it. Take one teaspoonful of salt and 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stir it all well. Take three 
cold eggs and beat them well. Add to the above and 
keep on beating for ten minutes; put into well-oiled, pans 
and bake quickly in hot oven. 

GERMAN POTATO PANCAKES. 

Grate six large raw potatoes and one onion fine; add 
three well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls of flour to bind the mixture; salt to taste. 
Mix as you would griddle cakes and fry in hot olive 
oil until brown and crisp. Serve with apple, cranberry or 
rhubarb sauce. 

ALL-DAY PANCAKES. 

Take one cupful sifted flour; add one-quarter teaspoon- 
ful salt and one tablespoonful sugar. Stir it all well. 
Add one well-beaten egg and thin down batter with 
lukewarm milk. Beat the batter well and let it stand 
for half an hour. The pan should contain about one- 
half inch full of oil. Pour spoonful after spoonful of the 
batter into the pan at various places, for the smaller 

23 



the cakes the nicer they will be. Turn them as soon 
as the underside begins to turn a brown color. Let no 
draft strike them while baking. Let them bake nice and 
crisp and you will be able to use them even when cold. 

GERMAN PANCAKES. 

One pint milk, four eggs, one heaping tablespoonful 
flour, one saltspoonful salt. Beat eggs together well, 
adding flour and salt, then milk. Beat all together until 
perfectly smooth. Bake in small shallow skillet, using 
three tablespoonfuls of the mixture for each cake. Pile 
up on plate and when all are baked sprinkle top with 
powdered sugar. Cut in sections, as pie is served. These 
should be very light and delicate. 

FRUIT PANCAKES. 

Very palatable pancakes can be made by taking one 
cupful of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one-quarter 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash or two of cinnamon. Stir 
well and add two thoroly beaten eggs ; lastly, one jcup- 
ful of ice-cold milk. Take two apples, peel them and 
slice very fine. Stir into the batter. Bring about one- 
half of an inch of oil in frying pan to high heating point 
and drop in the batter by the tablespoonfuls. Fry to a 
golden brown. See to it that the batter remains cold; set 
it by the open window, door or into the icebox. 

Instead of apples, bananas, peaches, pears, plums, per- 
simmons or currants may be used, each and every one 
developing specific medicinal properties in accordance to 
preparation. 

If desired, left-over cooked vegetables may be used, 
like onions, parsnips, salsify, carrots and pumpkins, to 
a good advantage. 

Remember, never use water to make the batter with 
where fruits or vegetables are to be used in the combina- 
tion. 

24 



BEVERAGES. 

The habit of tea and coffee drinking has fastened itself 
upon the American people to such an extent that freedom 
therefrom can be attained only by persistent effort and 
added mental force. The present fast age requires a 
careful husbanding of nervous energy to achieve success, 
and stimulating beverages offer nothing but a stumbling 
block to higher aims and aspirations. The evil effects of 
tea and coffee are too well known to be dwelt upon at 
length ; suffice it to say that habitual drinkers will find 
a decided reHef from their stomach and nervous troubles 
if cereal coffees and other beverages are used as substi- 
tutes. Statistics show that America is the heaviest 
coffee-drinking nation. 

With a little study and experiments most delicious and 
appetizing drinks may be prepared that will prove of 
benefit to the suffering and aid the mentally inclined in 
his search of knowledge by virtue of a more active mind. 

CHINESE OR JAPANESE TEA. 

All teas, whether Japanese, Chinese or Russian, so 
called, have more or less merit for medicinal purposes, 
but are absolutely injurious when combined with foods 
or meals. The only proper way of preparing teas is to 
pour a small quantity of hot water upon the tea leaves 
and allow them to develop, the time varying, in accord- 
ance to the kind and age of the tea, from three to fifteen 
minutes. As soon as the leaves are developed, pour all the 
boiling water desired into the pot and repour into another 
pot, throwing away the dregs. If you put a piece of 
licorice-root or sandelwood into the teapot while tea is 
developing you will run no risk as to the thein which is 
the poisonous principle contained in all teas. 

Teas are ^o be used in cases of fevers, colds and lung 

25 



troubles only, and then in moderate quantities and mild. 
Used without sugar and cream the tea will prove of great 
value, particularly on cold winter nights, and also in the 
summer, as a tonic whenever feeling intestinal contrac- 
tions due to eating unripe fruits and vegetables. A good 
and healthful way to use tea is to grind it fine and pre- 
pare it a la drip thru a cheesecloth as you would prepare 
coffee. Otherwise do not use teas, lest they will go back 
on you in cases of emergency. 

ARABIAN COFFEE, 

Or berry coffee, so called, is not a drink or food. It is 
for medicinal purposes and for that reason is only an 
occasional drink. If rightly prepared it may be used 
more frequently during the cold winter months, particularly 
on holidays. The fact is that for commercial reasons 
coffee is not allowed to ripen. It is picked green and 
develops poisons which prove injurious to the liver as 
well as kidneys. Ripe and well-seasoned coffee, stored 
for two or more years, then roasted as occasions demand, 
may be used with less injurious results, if any. But even 
then coffee is not to be used as a drink with meals, but 
merely as a light stimulant, consequently as a vesper or 
evening drink on social occasions. 

PROPER USE OF COFFEE. 

Roast your own coffee. Get as old a coffee as you can 
for that reason, or store it yourself. When roasting do 
not roast it too dark. When done rub the coffee beans 
with the white of eggs and immediately after with clarified 
butter. Keep in dry place. Grind the coffee only for 
immediate use. Grind it fine, but not floury. Always 
make what is known as drip coffee. For that reason 
keep a well-cleaned flannel cloth or a double layer of 
cheesecloth. Put the coffee into cloth and tie it over the 
pot. Pour about a cupful of hot water over it, and let 
it stand for one minute and then pour all of the boiling 
water over it as desired. One heaping teaspoonful of 
fresh-ground coffee is all that is needed for an ordinary- 
sized cup. Do not use sugar with your coffee. 

26 



When cream is used be sure you pour the cream into 
your cup first and then the coffee. It will act mildly on 
the liver and intestines. All coffee should be sipped hot. 

In cases of stomach troubles and troubles of the intes- 
tines, cramps and spasms, drink hot black coffee with a 
little rum. 

In insomnia, sleeplessness, nervousness, take one table- 
spoonful of cold black coffee every fifteen minutes until 
rested. 

SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 

Our abnormal methods of living necessitate the use of 
spirituous liquors as a medicine, but as habitual drinks 
they are an abomination and are to be decried. There 
are organic troubles where red- champagne, champagne 
cider, grape brandy, Jamaica rum. Anise whisky and 
malt beer will prove of inestimable value in cases where 
spirituous drinks have never been used. In a normal 
body these liquors will act Hke magic and prove excellent 
means to desirable ends. If used in cases of emergency 
only we shall have no need of raising the abstinence 
question. In stomach, liver and consequent heart troubles, 
chills and fevers, use salt brandy as a means of relief, 
abstaining from food until the trouble has subsided. 

SALT BRANDY. 

To prepare salt brandy add to a pint of old brandy one 
teaspoonful of well-sterilized and finely powdered table 
salt. Shake well. Keep bottle in a cool, dark place. Use 
one to three teaspoonfuls, according to severity of the 
case and age. When body does not perspire within half 
an hour drink elder-blossom tea freely, two to three cups 
as hot as can be borne, repeating the dose. Where the 
elder-flower tea does not bring on perspiration use four 
leaves of jaborandi to one cupful of boiling water, allow 
to steep three minutes. Drink it hot and repeat dose after 
half an hour. It will prove unfailing. An unfailing 
remedy in all troubles, acute and otherwise. 

27 



OIL DRINK. 

When fatigued and somewhat irregular take one tea- 
spoonful of olive oil, beat it and cut it with the juice of 
half a lemon. As soon as it begins to froth beat one cup- 
ful of boiling water over it and sip it slowly. Use two 
or more times a week. Excellent after a fast during cold 
weather. 

SWEET TASTE IN MOUTH. 

Gather wild rose blossoms in season and dry them. Put 
them in an earthenware or close jar. After meals wash 
the teeth and rinse the mouth well and use a few of the 
leaves, which should be chewed thoroughly and slowly, 
swallowing the liquid only. This process will give a sweet 
breath, while a mild tea made from the blossoms will give 
a clear tint and a beautiful skin, when drank one-half 
hour after meals. 

NEAR COFFEE. 

Roast to a golden brown one cup of barley, two cups 
of whole wheat, one-half cupful of peas, one-half cupful 
of acorns, adding one ounce of chicory root. If made 
like drip coffee but poured over twice, will be in flavor 
superior to the better blend. 

COFFEE COMPOUND. 

A compound of coffee very delicate in flavor and con- 
sidered a health drink after a rich meal, is made of blend- 
ing one pound of common Santos coffee, one-quarter 
pound of chicory, one-half pound of cocoa shells. All 
finely ground and kept in tight tin. Use the same quan- 
tity as of best coffee and drip but once. 

CEREAL DRINKS. 

In preparing cereal coffees, herb teas, or cocoa, it will 
be found that just the least speck of salt and an egg shell 
added to the articles upon which boihng water is to be 
poured will improve the drink considerably and aid diges- 
tion admirably. 

28 



MORNING DRINK. 

Take one dozen each of dates and Italian chestnuts. 
Grind or chop them fine. Pour a quart of sweet evening 
milk over them. Stir a little. Set aside for an hour or 
more. If to remain over night grind the dates and chest- 
nuts coarse. When to be used strain through a cloth or 
fine wire sieve. You may boil the consistency after an 
hour's soaking, bringing it to a boiling point slowly. 
When boiling a pinch of salt will be required. For in- 
fants or invalids add it to the wheat, oat and barley 
gruels, which will prove an excellent food, acting lightly 
upon the bowels. 

WHEAT COFFEE. 

Roast two pounds of whole-wheat grain until brown. 
As soon as taken out of the roaster, stir into it the whites 
of two eggs, well beaten and salted a trifle. Stir well 
and thoroly and until the grain is perfectly glazed. Keep 
in a tin or jar. Do not expose to light. Grind enough for 
immediate use. Three tablespoonfuls will be enough to 
one quart of water. Grind fine. Do not boil, but drip it 
the same as Wisdom Coffee. If prepared in earthenware 
or porcelain pots it will develop a finer aroma than Ara- 
bian coffee. 

WISDOM COFFEE. 

Two cupfuls whole barley, three cupfuls wheat, one- 
half cupful rye. Roast until brown. Use of this blend 
three tablespoonfuls to a quart of water. Prepare as fol- 
lows : Over your pot put a flannel cloth or two layers of 
cheesecloth ; into this place your finely-ground cereal, and 
pour one cupful of boiling water over it. Let it stand for 
one minute, then pour the rest of the boihng water on it. 
Cover tight as quickly as possible. Set over small fire for 
a minute, but do not allow it to boil up. As soon as all 
the water has passed the grounds, take off the cloth, 
throw away the dregs and serve the hot coffee at once, 
pouring it over fresh cream, and do not pour the cream 
into the coffee. 

29 



HOME COFFEE. 

Mix six cupfuls cracked wheat and one cupful New 
Orleans, maple or sorghum molasses; put in slow oven 
until well browned, stirring occasionally to prevent burn- 
ing. Put six tablespoonfuls in two quarts water and boil 
over slow fire for ten minutes. Serve with cream. 

HEALTH COFFEE. 

Take a quantity of whole barley (not pearl barley) and 
soak twenty-four hours in as much water as the barley 
will absorb. Keep in a warm place. Dry the barley by 
slow heating and brown in a slow oven, stirring occa- 
sionally. Prepare and serve same as Wisdom Coffee. 

COCOA. 

To one pint boiling water add three tablespoonfuls 
cocoa mixed with three tablespoonfuls granulated sugar; 
boil slowly for ten minutes and add one quart boiling 
milk, white of one egg and a little dash of vanilla extract, 
with a speck of salt. Mix thoroly and serve hot. 

COCOA FROM COCOA SHELLS. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of washed cocoa-shells in cof- 
fee-pot and pour over them one quart hot water; add egg 
shell and the white of one egg and boil ten to fifteen min- 
utes. Flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla extract and 
serve with cream and sugar to taste. 

VEGETABLE COFFEE. 

Cut into very small pieces one cupful of carrots, one- 
half cupful of parsnips, one-quarter cup of sweet corn, 
and roast to a golden brown. Grind only when needed. 

CEREAL COFFEE BLEND. 

One pound of roasted corn to three pounds of roasted 
wheat is found an excellent drink in cold weather. Grind 
fine and drip twice. 

30 



BANANA COFFEE 

Is made by first drying bananas, then roasting them 
Hghtly. An excellent drink with cream and wholesome 
if used moderately. Used largely to flavor cocoa shell tea 
with. 

COCOA SHELLS 

Are better than cocoa or chocolate, when a daily hot 
drink is necessary. Heating in winter. CooHng when 
used cold in summer. It is best to grind the shells. To 
cook them for five minutes; to strain thru cloth and to 
serve with or without cream. If without cream, vanilla 
and sugar may be used. Best drink for invalids. 

BARLEY COFFEE. 

Put a quantity of whole barley (two-row barley, some- 
times called coffee barley) into a large pan, and brown in 
a slow oven, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. Use 
the same way as Health Coffee. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Put in graniteware saucepan four ounces shaved choco- 
late, three tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, and three 
tablespoonfuls hot water; stir over hot fire until smooth. 
Have heated to boiling point in double-boiler one quart 
milk, into which pour the melted chocolate, beating the 
while with whisk or fork. Flavor with one teaspoonful 
vanilla extract and serve with whipped cream. 

HERB TEAS. 

Made by infusing dried or green stalks, leaves or bark 
in boiling water; let stand until cold and sweeten to 
taste. If desired hot, steep for three minutes, then serve. 
Use cream, sugar or lemon juice. 

TEA DRINKS 

are most beneficial at night, and shortly before retiring to 
bed. Linden blossoms and elder blossoms used occasion- 
ally, with either lemon juice or a little cream, will prove 
a wholesome 4nnk. 

31 



SLIPPERY-ELM BARK TEA. 

Over a handful of broken bark pour one quart boiling 
water; cover and let stand until cold. Add lemon juice if 
desired and sweeten to taste. 

BRAN TEA. 

Slightly brown a quantity of bran in slow oven. Use 
four tablespoonfuls to one quart water. Boil ten minutes. 
Serve same as tea, with or without cream and sugar. By 
adding white of egg, flavor will be greatly improved. 

BRAN DRINK. 

Put one-half pint bran in earthenware vessel, over 
which pour two quarts cold water; stir well and set in the 
sun for two to three hours. Strain thru hnen cloth and 
set in cool place, when it will be ready for use. Fruit 
juices may be added, but as a nervine it is better plain. 
Used with wild cherry cordial or grape jelly it will prove 
refreshing: to invalids. 



'to 



TOAST WATER. 

Toast two slices wheat bread in moderate oven until 
well browned. Break in small pieces and put in granite- 
ware coffee-pot, pour over two quarts boiling water and 
simmer five minutes. Serve with cream and sugar to 
taste. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Boil two ounces of pearl barley in one-half pint water 
forty-five minutes, then add two quarts boiling water and a 
few chopped figs and seeded raisins. Boil thirty minutes, 
and strain ; add a little lemon juice and sweeten to taste. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Over four tablespoonfuls whole flaxseed pour one quart 
boiling water, add juice of two lemons; let steep three 
hours, keeping closely covered. Sweeten to taste with 
rock candy. Excellent for colds. 

32 



BRAN LEMONADE. 

As a summer drink nothing will be found more re- 
freshing than bran lemonade. It is made as follows: To 
one-half pint bran add one quart water, and let stand for 
one-half hour in a cool place. Pour off water and add the 
juice of four lemons; sweeten to taste with powdered 
sugar. The phosphates of the bran, which have been ab- 
sorbed by the water, quickly revive the fagged-out brain 
and nerves and relieve that "tired feeling;" besides the 
acid of the lemon is very cooling to the blood in hot 
weather. 

ONION GRUEL. 

To one sliced onion and one tablespoonful of bran or 
rolled wheat, a dash of salt, add one pint of milk. Allow 
it to come to a boiling point and continue to simmer for 
fifteen minutes. Eat as hot as can be borne, and shortly 
before retiring to bed. 

RICE WATER. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of rice; wash it well, and put 
in jug, adding one good stick of cinnamon and one quart 
of hot boiling water. Cover well. As soon as cold, it 
will be ready to serve. May be used with lemon or any 
other juice to good advantage. If desired, the rice may 
be boiled slowly for an hour and then strained. 

CURRANT DRINK. 

Dissolve one teaspoonful of currant jelly in a glass of 
cold water, properly filtered. Add chipped ice, the slice of 
an orange and half of a slice of pineapple. This makes a 
healthful summer drink. 

N. B. Other jellies or jams may be used in the same 
way. In winter hot water may be used instead of the cold 
and instead of fresh fruits a few drops of fine liquor may be 
added. 

ORANGEADE. 

To the juice of one orange mix two teaspoonfuls pow- 
dered sugar, then add one beaten egg and three-fourths 
cupful water. Very refreshing and nourishing. 

33 



HOT LEMONADE. 

Bake two lemons in the oven until soft. Squeeze out the 
contents into a porcelain or graniteware vessel. Add two 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and one pint boiling water. 
Stir well and drink when sufficiently cooled. Should be 
taken only just before retiring. Very valuable in cases of 
colds and pulmonary disorders. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Take a quantity of blackberries, extract the juice either 
by pressing thru sieve or by heating on the fire. To each 
quart of juice add one-half pound of sugar. Boil ten to 
fifteen minutes, then bottle in the usual manner. The 
flavor will be improved by the addition of a little cinnamon. 
Will keep indefinitely. When serving, dilute with water to 
taste. Very delicious. 

APPLE DRINK. 

Cut two pounds of apples, keeping the skins, pits, cores, 
seeds, etc., into halves or quarters and boil in three pints 
of water until apples become absolutely tasteless. Strain the 
liquid and use either warm or cold. Prune, raisin and fig 
drinks are prepared in the same way. Combined with regu- 
lar food will aid bowel action. 

APPLE WATER. 

Pour two quarts of boiling water over six apples, finely 
cut, peeHngs, cores, seeds included; one ounce of lump 
sugar, one-half of a lemon rind, fine sliced. Use earthen- 
ware jug. Cover it well. When cold strain into another 
jug, when it will be ready for use. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

To six quarts stemmed and washed grapes add two 
quarts water. Bring slowly to a boil, then strain thru a 
flannel bag. Return juice to the fire, bring again to a 
boil, bottle and seal at once. Upon opening for use, 
sweeten to taste with granulated sugar and serve in wine 
glasses. 

34 



CAKES. 

In the making and use of cakes and pastry it is well to 
have a certain knowledge of chemistry and digestion. The 
principal ingredients of cakes are white flour (starch), 
sugar and oil; all three being carbon, differing only in 
form. When separate, and properly prepared, they are not 
difficult to digest ; but when combined, without due knowl- 
edge, into one mass, they form a mixture revolting to a 
sensitive stomach. The fact that sugar is digested prin- 
cipally in the mouth and throat, starch in the stomach, and 
animal oils emulsified in the duodenum, is sufficient evi- 
dence that harmful results follow the taking into the stom- 
ach of these three forms of carbon incorporated into one 
consistent mass. Scientific investigation has proved that 
only vegetable oils, such as olive, cottonseed, and cocoa- 
nut, can, in limited quantities, be digested in the stomach ; 
Avhile animal fats cannot be digested, so must pass to the 
duodenum, there to be emulsified by the action of the 
bile and pancreatic juices before they can be assimilated. 
Again, when the starch cells have been surrounded with 
animal fats, the action of the gastric juices is impaired and 
digestion is prevented; fermentation and acidulation fol- 
low. From this it can readily be seen that animal fats 
have no place whatever in cookery, and that they should be 
entirely superseded by vegetable oils. Cakes, when made 
with vegetable oils and eaten only in small quantities as a 
dessert, are not harmful to well-being. Do not bake cakes 
in tin pans. The oxide of tin, formed by the heat during 
baking, permeates the cake and poisons the system when 
eaten. Use pans made from graniteware, earthenware or 
aluminum. Be sure the flour is perfectly dry. Have eggs 
cold before whipping. Bake large cakes in a moderate 
oven. Lay a sheet of clean, white paper on top of ;cake 
when first placed in the oven to prevent a sudden forma- 

35 



tion of a top crust which would interfere with its rising. 
Remove the paper when the cake has become thoroly 
heated and well raised, otherwise it will not brown. A pan 
of water set in the oven alongside of the cake is often ad- 
vantageous in preventing burning. To insure fine cakes 
beat the oil with a fork after heating. 

ALMOND COOKIES. 

Into three cupfuls flour put one tablespoonful cinnamon 
cream, one cupful blanched and finely-chopped almonds, 
adding one and a half cupfuls sugar, three quarters of a 
cup melted butter and, lastly, the yolks of six eggs. Beat 
thoroly. Drop small spoonfuls on a well-oiled pan and 
bake to a light brown. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Cream one-half cupful oil with one and a half cupfuls 
sugar. Cream until very light. Add one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla, one teaspoonful lemon, one cupful warm 
water, and sprinkle gradually three cupfuls of well-sifted 
flour. Beat for five minutes, then add the whites of six 
well-beaten and frothed eggs. Bake for forty-five minutes 
in well-oiled pan. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Into six well-beaten eggs put three tablespoonfuls cold 
water, grated rind of one lemon and one pint sugar, lastly 
stir in one pint flour. Work it all quickly and bake without 
delay. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

Beat half a cupful butter to a cream, and gradually beat 
into it one cupful sugar. When this is light, beat in half a 
cupful sweet milk, one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat the whites 
of six eggs to a stiff froth. Mix half a teaspoonful baking 
powder with two scant cupfuls flour. Stir the flour and 
whites of eggs, alternately, into the mixture. Have three 
deep baking plates well oiled, and spread two-thirds of the 

36 



batter in two of them. Into the remaining batter stir one 
ounce of melted chocolate, and spread this batter in the 
third plate. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes. Put a layer of white cake on a large 
plate, and spread with white glace. Put the dark cake on 
this, and also spread with white glace. On this put the 
third cake. Spread with chocolate glace. 

SAND HEARTS. 

Cream into one-half pound of butter one pound of sugar 
and one pound of flour with yolks of three eggs. Roll very 
thin. Take another yolk and beat up with sweet milk and 
a little nutmeg. Wet the tops of cakes with it before bak- 
ing. 

OATMEAL FLAKES. 

Beat very light two eggs. Add four tablespoonfuls cold 
water, two cupfuls raw oatmeal and one cupful sugar, 
creamed in one and a half pounds butter, one teaspoonful 
soda. Enough flour to roll thin. Bake quickly. 

CHOCOLATE GLACE. 

Put into a granite or earthenware saucepan one-half pint 
sugar and one-fourth cupful water, boil gently until bub- 
bles begin to come from the bottom, say five minutes. Take 
from the fire instantly. Do not stir or shake the sugar 
while cooking. Pour the hot syrup in a thin stream into 
the whites of two eggs that have been beaten to a stiflf 
froth, beating the mixture all the time. Continue to beat 
until the glace is thick. Flavor with one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Use two-thirds of this as a white icing and to the 
remaining third add one ounce of melted chocolate. To 
melt the chocolate, shave it fine and put it in a cup, which is 
then to be placed in a pan of boiling water. 

CHOCOLATE-MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

Sift one and one-half cupfuls flour with one heaping tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Cream four ounces cocoanut 
butter with one-half pound pulverized sugar; add yolks of 
three well-beaten eggs. Beat whites of three eggs to stiff 

37 



froth. Mix all with flour, adding slowly one gill sweet 
milk. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful vanilla and bake 
in two jelly-cake pans. 

SORGHUM CAKE. 

Two cups flour, one cup sweet milk, one-half cup cocoa- 
nut butter or vegetable oil, one heaping teaspoonful soda, 
one cup sorghum, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon or ginger, 
mix thoroly, put in oiled pan and bake to a dark brown in 
hot oven. 

NUT COOKIE. 

Cream one cupful of butter with one pound light brown 
sugar, add two well-beaten eggs, one cupful sweet milk, 
one cupful chopped hickory nuts (or any other nut) and 
flour enough to stiffen. Roll out, cut and bake in very hot 
oven. If instead of butter, oil is preferred, take only two- 
thirds the quantity to that of butter. 

MAZDAZNAN CAKE. 

Cook one cupful of sugar and four tablespoonfuls of 
water until it threads. Add it to the beaten whites of three 
eggs, stirring until cool. Add the yolks of the eggs and 
one cup of flour. Beat quickly, flavor with vanilla or 
grated citrus rinds. Bake in quick oven and serve with 
Dutch frosting. 

DUTCH FROSTING. 

To two well beaten eggs, add one cupful of granulated 
sugar and two grated apples of good size, a few drops of 
lemon flavor. Keep heating until snow-white. To be served 
with plain layer cake. 

CAKE NUTS. 

To three tablespoonfuls of ground, raw peanuts, add 
one-half cupful finely crushed bread crumbs, two eggs, one 
half cupful milk. Season and flavor to taste. Drop with 
spoon into hot oil and brown. Other nuts may be substi- 
tuted for peanuts. 

38 



ANGEL CAKE. 

To one cupful of sifted flour, add one teaspoonful cream 
of tartar and sift four times. Now add one and one-half 
cup of sifted granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla 
and fold in the whites of eleven eggs. Bake in an un- 
greased pan for forty minutes. When done, invert pan on 
two cups and let stand until cake is cold. 

N. B. By adding the sugar to the white of eggs, then the 
flour with the cream of tartar and lastly the vanilla, will 
give the cake a different flavor. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs, add gradually one and one- 
half cups of sugar, the grated rind of one lemon. Beat, in 
separate bowl, the white of eight eggs to a stiff froth. 
Now mix, in a third bowl, alternately the whites with the 
sugared yolks, adding gently three gills of flour. Stir very 
gently and just enough to mix well. Lastly add the juice 
of one lemon. Make into two loaves and bake for twenty 
minutes in moderate oven. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Dissolve one-third teaspoonful of soda in a little hot 
water and put into one cupful of honey (or molasses), add 
two well-beaten eggs, one-quarter cup of warm oil or melted 
butter. Stir in two and two-thirds cups of warm, sifted 
flour and one heaping teaspoonful of egg baking powder. 
Add two teaspoonfuls of powdered ginger, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt and lastly one cup of boiling water. Bake in 
slow oven. 

N. B. The flavor may be improved by allowing a pod 
of vanilla to boil in the water ; the pod to be removed when 
adding boiling water. One tablespoonful of chopped al- 
monds added with the flour will give it all a decided taste. 
It is well to ornament the top with a few whole blanched al- 
monds and tliin sliced candied citrus. 

39 



MARSHMALLOW FILLING. 

Boil four ounces chocolate and one-half cup sugar in 
one-fourth cup water until it will form a thread between 
the fingers. Take one-half pound marshmallow candy, dis- 
solve in one tablespoonful boiling water and add to choco- 
late. When cool, spread one-half of the filling over each 
layer ; put them together and on the top one sprinkle finely- 
chopped nuts. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Sift three teaspoonfuls baking powder into one pound 
flour. Cream one pound cocoanut butter with one pound 
powdered sugar, to which mix well the beaten yolks of 
twelve eggs, then add one-half the flour, one tablespoonful 
each cinnamon, ginger, cloves and mace, one cup maple 
syrup or sorghum. Add alternately the beaten whites and 
balance of flour; mix well. Chop well two pounds each 
seeded layer raisins, currants, citron, almonds, and one- 
half pound each dates and figs. Add one-half glassful 
grape juice and mix the whole. Put in two large pans and 
bake two hours or more in moderate oven. This cake will 
keep in a cool place for three months. 

RAY'S SHORT CAKE. 

Sift together two cupfuls whole-wheat flour and two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, add one-third cupful clarified 
butter and one cupful sweet milk. Roll in two layers, each 
one-half inch thick, and bake well. 

STRAWBERRY FILLING. 

Mash one quart strawberries in an earthenware dish and 
add powdered sugar to sweeten ; set dish in hot oven until 
berries are well heated ; remove and spread between and on 
top of the layers. Serve with cream. 

CRANBERRY FILLING. 

Pick and wash carefully one quart cranberries. Cook five 
minutes in granite or earthen vessel, using sufiicient water 
to cover, then pour off water, and add same quantity boil- 
ing water and after cooking two or three hours, mash 

40 



thru colander. Add sufficient sugar to sweeten, then set 
on back of range and simmer for twenty minutes. Spread 
between and on top of layers and serve with cream. 

NUT-FRUIT FILLING. 

Pick and wash carefully one quart cranberries. Cook 
five minutes in graniteware vessel, with sufficient water to 
cover, pour off water and add same quantity boiling water, 
cook two hours and mash thru colander. Add sufficient 
sugar to sweeten, set on back of range and boil twenty 
minutes. When cold, add one pint finely-chopped or 
ground almonds or walnuts, spread between and on top of 
layers and serve with cream. 

GINGER CAKE. 

To five beaten eggs mix well one cupful granulated 
sugar; add one-fourth teaspoonful each ground cloves and 
cinnamon, one tablespoonful ground ginger, one-fourth 
pound shredded candied lemon and orange peel, and two 
cupfuls fiour into which has been well sifted one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder. When well mixed, add one-half pound 
Jordan almonds, previously blanched, slightly browned and 
shredded. Put in large pan and bake one-half hour in 
moderate oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Cream one-half cupful cocoanut or clarified butter with 
one cupful powdered sugar and one egg, add one and one- 
half cupfuls sweet milk and one-fourth teaspoonful ground 
cinnamon. Sift together one and one-half pints flour and 
one-half teaspoonful baking powder; mix all to a soft 
dough ; roll out to one-half inch thickness on well-fioured 
board, cut out with biscuit cutter and boil to dark-brown 
color in hot cocoanut butter, olive or cooking oil. Serve 
with powdered sugar. 

NUT-FRUIT SHORT CAKE. 

Sift together one teaspoonful baking powder and one 
cupful flour, add one cupful sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
melted, clarified or cocoanut butter, two well-beaten eggs 

41 



and three tablespoonfuls sweet milk. Have all as cold as 
possible, mix quickly with wooden spoon, put in two jelly- 
cake pans and bake in quick oven. 

TEA CAKE. 

Cream one-half cupful cocoanut butter with one and one- 
half cupfuls powdered or granulated sugar, then add one- 
half cupful milk. Beat two eggs until very light. Sift 
together one teaspoonful baking powder with two cupfuls 
flour. Add to the creamed butter the flour and eggs alter- 
nately, then follow with one teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful cloves, one tablespoonful lemon juice, and one- 
half pound seeded raisins chopped and floured. Bake in 
moderate oven until nicely browned. 

FRUIT CAKE, PAR EXCELLENCE. 

Take five pounds seeded layer raisins, two pounds seed- 
less raisins or cleaned currants, one pound figs, one pound 
citron, one-half pound candied orange peel, one-half pound 
candied cherries, two ounces candied ginger, one teaspoon- 
ful ground cinnamon ; chop well and mix thoroly, or, better 
still, grind all together with a vegetable chopper. Cream 
one pound cocoanut butter with one pound flour. Separ- 
ate sixteen eggs; beat whites to a stiff froth; beat yolks 
with one pound pulverized sugar until light, then add alter- 
nately a spoonful each of beaten whites and the creamed 
butter and flour ; beat and mix well. Add the fruit and one 
pint grape juice, one pint of red, sparkling non-alcoholic 
wine ; mix thoroly and put in large oiled pan and bake two 
hours in moderate oven. The longer this cake is kept the 
better it will get. Keep well wrapped in a close box. 
Almond meats may be used as a substitute for the candied 
cherries. (Sometimes one pint of grape brandy with grape 
juice combined improves the cake with age.) 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Cream one cupful of shredded cocoanut in two cupfuls 
of flour, three-quarters cupful of sugar, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon; add one-half cupful of butter; lastly, 
the yolk of four eggs. Drop small spoonfuls on a well- 
oiled pan and bake to a light brown. 

42 



CANDIES. 

Pure home-made candies, eaten in moderate quantities 
only after a meal, are not injurious to the system. Chil- 
dren are often benefited by occasionally eating a small 
amount of wholesome sweets after a meal, but not before, 
as digestion is thereby impaired. Do not use cheap can- 
dies sold at the stores ; they contain glucose and poisonous 
coloring matter. Avoid the use of syrups which contain 
glucose. Few brands are free from it, and it is better to 
make all syrup from sugar at home. Maple syrup, when 
pure, is the most healthful. Glucose is made by subjecting 
cornstarch to the action of sulphuric acid and heat, and 
it has been demonstrated that the use of this product will 
cause Bright's disease and other kidney disorders. Sor- 
ghum should be used only for cooking, and in moderate 
quantities. The same may be said of New Orleans molas- 
ses. Thoroly wash the teeth after eating. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS NO. 1. 

Beat whites of two eggs to stiff froth, and into this beat 
gradually two teacupfuls powdered sugar. Flavor with 
one-half teaspoonful vanilla and work to stiff dough, add- 
ing a little more sugar if necessary. Shape Into small cones 
and lay on oiled plates or paper. Let stand one hour or 
more. Put five ounces shaved chocolate into a bowl, set in 
saucepan containing boiling water and put on the fire. 
When chocolate is melted, remove pan to table and drop 
creams one at a tim.e in chocolate, remove with fork and 
lay on oiled plates or paper. They will harden in about 
one-half hour. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS NO. 2. 

Prepare a fondant by putting into a graniteware sauce- 
pan two cupfuls granulated sugar and one cupful water. 
Stir until sugar is nearly dissolved ; place on fire and heat 
slowly, but do not stir or jar saucepan. Watch carefully 
and note when it begins to boil. After boiling ten minutes, 
drop a small quantity into cold water; if it hardens suf- 

43 



ficiently to form a soft ball when rolled between thumb and 
finger, it has been boiled sufficiently. Take saucepan from 
fire immediately and set in a cool, dry place. When syrup 
has cooled so that finger can be held in it comfortably, pour 
it into a bowl and stir with wooden spoon until thick and 
white. When a little dry and hard, take out spoon and 
work with hand until soft and smooth. Flavor with a few 
drops of vanilla, and, after shaping, cover with chocolate 
as in recipe No. i. 

COCOANUT CANDY. 

Dissolve one pound powdered sugar in four tablespoon- 
fuls of water, put in graniteware saucepan and set on fire ; 
when it begins to boil, stir in one pound shredded cocoa- 
nut. Continue boiling until flaky and pour in oiled plates 
or pans. Cut in squares when sufficiently cooled. 

CANDIED FRUITS. 

Take one pound cut-loaf sugar; dip each lump into a 
bowl of water and put in preserving kettle. Boil down and 
skim until perfectly clear and in a candying state. Have 
ready fruit to be candied, such as cherries, grapes, currants, 
oranges divided into sections, sliced pineapples, peaches, 
plums, etc., wipe but do not wet. Dip fruit in prepared 
sugar while hot ; let remain a few minutes ; remove and put 
on oiled plates or paper to harden. If carefully done, will 
keep indefinitely. 

NUT CANDY. 

Put one pound light-brown New Orleans sugar in gran- 
iteware saucepan and add four tablespoonfuls water; stir 
until dissolved, then put on fire and boil. Have ready one 
pound nut meats and when first sign of graining is noticed, 
stir in nuts ; take from fire and pour in oiled plates or pans. 
When cold cut in bars. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Put two pounds brown sugar in graniteware saucepan, 
add one-half cake chocolate finely shaved, one-half pint 
sweet cream, one heaping teaspoonful cocoanut butter; 
vanilla flavoring to taste. Boil until quite thick, pour into 
buttered dishes to cool. When sufficiently cooled, cut into 
sections. 44 



CEREAL FOODS. 

In the preparation of cereals for food there is a great 
advantage in roasting before boihng. Roasting or brown- 
ing changes the starch into dextrin, which is easily as- 
similated, while boiling only forms it into a slimy mass, 
which is difficult to digest. The saving of time is an 
important item, especially when preparing breakfast, and 
grain preparations first baked require only five to fifteen 
minutes' cooking, while in a raw state they must be 
boiled from one to seven hours to make them edible. 

Rolled wheat may be sufficiently cooked in one hour, 
while cornmeal and oatmeal require five to seven hours' 
careful boiling. 

All wheat preparations, such as farina, wheatlet, fari- 
nose, etc., should be placed into hot oven for three to 
five minutes and then sprinkled dry into a saucepan of 
boiling water. Stir until they reach the boiling point and 
begin to thicken, then push back where they will boil 
slowly for ten to thirty minutes. Do not cook them in 
a double boiler, because the heat generated is not suffi- 
cient to separate the starch cells without prolonged cook- 
ing. The average temperature in a double boiler rarely 
exceeds i8o degrees F., which is only adapted to the 
proper boiling of eggs, other foods requiring not less than 
212 degrees. 

If possible, prepare your own cereals, as the aroma 
of freshly ground and prepared grains is the essence of 
the life of the grain. 

All grains or grain preparations, as rice, sago, tapioca, 
hominy, etc., should be boiled over a quick fire. 

Pulses, like beans, peas, lentils, etc., are counted among 
the vegetables, and require treating whether in a ripe or 
green state. When rolled or flaked are to be used_the 
same as sago or rice and are best when combined with the 
latter. 

45 



Grains as well as pulses may be used with milk or fruit 
juices and prove nourishing when combined with nut 
creams freshly prepared. 

Oils used with grains and pulses should be added with 
the water so as to allow thoro mixing, thus making it 
more digestible. In ordinary cases oil will not be readily 
digested unless cooked. 

The old-fashioned oatmeal, rolled and flaked oats, bar- 
ley and wheat are in many respects more commendable 
than the predigested foods or toasted preparations. Rolled 
wheat and oats put in the oven to dry, but not toasted, 
will prove a more palatable dish than any of the scientifi- 
cally prepared dishes and better than steamed cereals. 

People advanced in years should have their grains and 
cereals malted or soaked in water for three to more 
hours, in accordance to season and climate, and boiled 
for two to five hours, using with the dish a fair quantity 
of white syrup and sweet cream. Particularly good in 
generative troubles. Fresh-ground wheat with cream will 
prove a better dish to correct peristaltic movements than 
any pills or potions known. 

When eating grains prepared or unprepared a quan- 
tity of fruit or fruit juices should be combined. 

Avoid sugar on cereals, especially when milk or cream 
is used, as their mixture causes rapid fermentation and 
produces dyspepsia. 

If you require sweets, use sweet fruits. 

BABY FOOD. 

Wheat will make an excellent baby food where mother's 
milk is deficient or scant, and remember that however 
good the prepared, bottled foods may be, nothing can 
come up to a freshly prepared article, free from the sug- 
gestions of factory hands. Take one-half cup of wheat, 
soak it in one-half cup of water and as soon as all the 
water is absorbed boil slowly or steam in one quart of 
water and when well done, mash thru a colander and 
return to fire, the gruel as well as the remainder in colan- 
der. Add one saltspoonful of salt, and one pint of thoroly 
sweetened milk, about three tablespoonfuls of sugar to the 
quart of milk and let it slowly come to a simmering 

46 



point. Now pass thru a sieve and a cheesecloth. May 
be administered in a nursing bottle. Will also prove 
an excellent food for invalids. If patient or babe is found 
very poorly in health, add to the above, at the time the 
milk is being added, the flour of ten finely grated 
blanched almonds. The almonds are blanched by pouring 
boiling water on them, and after a few minutes the 
skin will come off by simply pressing them thru the fingers. 
Dry them immediately and after a few minutes pass them 
thru a nut grater, not a grinder. 

STEAMED WHEAT. 

Take a cupful of whole wheat and soak for several 
hours or over night, if in winter. During summer soak 
for four hours only. Soak only in as much water as the 
wheat will absorb. Put it into a fine wire sieve and place 
the sieve over a kettle of boiling water, covering the pot 
so the steam will pass through the sieve containing wheat. 
One minute of steaming is all that will be necessary to 
give the wheat a most delicious flavor and taste. Eat with 
oil or cream, or with ground nuts. 

PLAIN DISH. 

Wheat soaked over night and boiled from four to seven 
hours over a slow fire until popped open, eaten with cream 
or oil, proves to be one of the most nourishing dishes. 
A bowlful of this wheat will prove more satisfactory than 
all the scientifically prepared dishes on the market ten 
times in quantity, besides you know you are eating pure 
food. 

PLAIN WHEAT DISH. 

To one cupful of wheat coarsely ground and soaked 
over night or for a few hours, use one egg well beaten and 
one-half cup of cream added to it, whi-^h you pour over 
the wheat. Use neither salt nor sugar. You can get your 
grocer to grind the wheat for you if you have no grinder 
of your own. For a change you can soak a few raisins 
with the wheat, which gives it a decided flavor and sweet 
taste. A few blanched almonds, ground and mixed in 

47 



with toasted wheat flakes or soaked wheat, will furnish 
a nice dish. Instead of the cream and where something 
warm is preferred, hot cereal drink may be poured over 
the wheat. 

ORIENTAL WHEAT DISH. 

Pick the wheat clean and wash twice. Expose it to the 
sun for several hours. Then soak it for six hours or 
less. Boil it in the water it was soaked in, adding more 
water when needed, for four hours until perfectly soft 
and open. Put it in an earthenware dish and pour oyer 
it quite a quantity of oil that has been used for frying 
fritters, etc. Salt it to taste and set in the oven for fif- 
teen minutes, leaving the dish uncovered. When served 
will have a flavor decidedly pleasant to those who had a 
taste for meat. 

POPCORN. 

Pop as usual and grind moderately fine. Use one tea- 
spoonful ground peanuts or almonds to every three table- 
spoonfuls ground popcorn. Serve without milk. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

Brown a quantity of cracked wheat in a moderate oven ; 
sprinkle into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for 
thirty minutes. Cream or cocoanut butter may be added. 

GRAINOL. 

Rebake slices of stale whole-wheat bread in a moderate 
oven, break with a rolling-pin or grind on mill to any de- 
sired fineness. Four tablespoonfuls will suffice for one 
meal. If white bread is used, double the amount for each 
dish. Serve with cream, but without sugar. 

SWEET CORN. 

First-quality sweet corn, parched and ground moderately 
fine and soaked in cream or milk, makes a very whole- 
some dish. If boiled five minutes before serving, the 
flavor will be greatly improved. 

48 



GRAINOENA. 

One-half pound of pearl barley boiled together with 
one-quarter pound coarsely ground wheat and one-quarter 
pound of oatmeal, one-quarter pound of flaked or coarsely 
ground peas, four ounces coarsely ground rye, cooked to- 
gether in one vessel over a slow fire, stirring frequently 
to keep from scorching. When fairly well done, usually 
in forty-five minutes, allow to get cool. Cut into slices 
one-half inch thick and bake in slow oven until thoroly 
dry. Keep in tins and oiled paper. When to be served, 
grind coarsely, rebake for five minutes and serve with cream. 

TAROETTA. 

To each beaten banana add two cupfuls of mashed po- 
tatoes and work into a solid consistency with as much 
eiround rolled oats as necessary. Roll out into strips one- 
half inch thick and bake to dry in a slow oven for an 
hour. When cold, grind fine. Keep in air-tight pans. 
Use two tablespoonfuls of the powder in one pint of 
milk, fresh milk or buttermilk before meals to tone np 
stomach. 

WHEAT GRUEL. 

Take one cupful of wheat, grind into coarse flour and 
sprinkle into three pints of boiling water. Stir fre- 
quently ; add two tablespoonfuls of butter and salt to 
taste. Served with sweet cream is a better dish and more 
wholesome than any predigested, dextrinized breakfast 
food. 

WHOLE-WHEAT MESS. 

Soak one cupful of whole wheat for six to eight hours 
in just enough water to cover the amount. Put into a 
fine sieve that can be hung over a kettle of steaming 
water, so the sieve does not touch the water. Allow to 
steam for five minutes. Butter thoroly, salt and serve 
with fruit juices or sauces or cream. 



49 



CREAM TOAST. 

Make a cream by adding to one quart boiling milk one 
tablespoonful white flour blended with sufficient cold milk 
to form a smooth paste; boil until smooth and creamy, 
stirring constantly. Add a little salt and one teaspoonful 
cocoanut butter. Toast a number of slices of white 
bread to a golden brown in a moderate oven, pour over 
each piece separately sufficient boiling water to soften, 
drain and lay on plates and cover with the cream. Very 
delicious and a splendid dish for convalescents. 

SHREDDED WHEAT. 

Brown the biscuits in slow oven, break with rolling- 
pin or grind in mill. Serve with milk or cream. The 
addition of almond or walnut butter will greatly improve 
the flavor. Obese persons should eat such preparations 
without cream or nuts. 

FARMERS' RICE. 

To one cupful of whole-wheat flour add pinch of salt, 
one teaspoonful of sugar and sufficient cold milk to form 
dry rivelings ; add milk slowly and work with spoon by 
rubbing to prevent formation of large lumps. One beaten 
egg may be used instead of milk. Put two quarts milk 
in graniteware pan, set on fire and when boiling point 
is reached, stir rivelings in slowly. Boil slowly fifteen 
minutes, watching carefully to prevent burning. Very 
nutritious and greatly appreciated by all having unper- 
verted appetites. 

GRAINUTTA. 

Cut into thin slices stale whole-wheat and rye bread; 
remove the crust, using inside of bread only. Allow it to 
dry out thoroly, then put into moderate oven and al- 
low both sides to become a dark-yellow color. When 
cold, grind or roll to medium fineness. Sack or put in 
jars and keep in dry place. Before serving, place into 
moderate oven for a few minutes. Serve with nut food 
or cream. Use two-thirds of wheat to one-third rye 
bread. The outside crust can be preserved for making 
symposia. 

50 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES. 

Great danger attends the frequent use of stimulating 
condiments, and the digestive organs may be so habituated 
to their presence that plain food seems insipid. Such con- 
ditions cause a perversion of the appetite, and a long train 
of evils follow. Spicy condiments afford no nutrition and 
are not essential to the process of digestion in a healthy 
state of the system. Tho they may in some cases assist 
the action of a debilitated stomach for a time, yet their 
continual use never fails to produce a weakness of that 
organ, the effect being the same as that of alcohol or other 
stimulants — present relief at the expense of the future suf- 
fering. 

Black and white peppers and nutmegs are active poisons 
and produce dangerous results, even in small quantities. 
Use as a medicine only and in season. 

Horseradish and mustard are first cousins, and are not 
harmful if used occasionally. Should be used with milk or 
in dressings. 

Cloves, allspice, mace and cinnamon should be used 
sparingly. 

Red pepper, ginger and salt have medicinal properties 
and their use in moderate proportions is very beneficial. 

Vinegar should not be used, as the acetic acid which it 
contains is highly injurious to the delicate lining of the 
stomach. Only on rare occasions vinegar made from sour 
red wine or sound apples, and boiled before using, may 
prove beneficial. As a disinfectant vinegar is of great 
value. Bathe body with vinegar and water in equal pro- 
portions in cases of fever. In food use lime or lemon juice. 

The use of savory herbs, such as thyme, parsley, sage, 
sweet marjoram, mint, garlic, leek, shives, yarrow, and 
caraway, celery, and dill seeds in soups, salads, sauces, etc., 
are very' beneficial and act as a very mild stimulant. 

The following spices, if used sparingly, will prove bene- 
ficial, and when combined with fruits : Cinnamon, mace, 
saffron, nutmeg, cloves, allspice, citron, lemon, orange, 
vanilla and other fruit flavoring extracts. Savories should 
be avoided as much as possible. 

51 



CROQUETTES. 

CHEESE. 

To two cupfuls grated cream cheese add one-half cupful 
peanutta (recipe will be found under head of "Nuts"), one 
level teaspoonful salt, dash ;cayenne pepper, whites of two 
eggs. Mix thoroly; roll into small balls, dip into beaten 
yolks of eggs, then roll into cracker-dust, then again into 
beaten yolks, then again into cracker-dust, then fry to a 
golden brown in a deep pan of hot oil. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 

CHESTNUT. 

Put three cupfuls milk in saucepan, set on fire and when 
it begins to boil add the soft portion of one-half loaf of 
bread, mixing well ; then add thirty roasted chestnuts well 
pounded, two well-beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls ground 
walnuts, two tablespoonfuls finely-chopped parsley, one 
tablespoonful salt, dash cayenne pepper. Mix thoroly, boil 
three minutes, then take from fire and set to cool for one 
hour. Form into shapes, roll into beaten eggs and cracker 
dust and fry in hot oil. Serve with tomato sauce or cat- 
sup. 

PEANUT. 

Mix well together three cupfuls ground raw or slightly- 
roasted peanuts, one cupful cereal of any kind, two level 
teaspoonfuls salt, three tablespoonfuls chopped parsley, two 
tablespoonfuls onion juice, good dash cayenne pepper. 
Cream two tablespoonfuls clarified butter or oil with three 
tablespoonfuls flour, mix with one pint boiling milk until 
smooth and thick. Add this to the foregoing preparation 
of nuts, etc., and set away to cool ; then form into desired 
shape, roll in bread crumbs or cracker-dust and beaten egg, 
and fry in hot oil to a golden brown. Serve with dressing 
or catsup. 

52 



DAIRY FOODS, 

As milk, cream, butter and cheese, should be used in com- 
bination with other foods only and are adapted with the 
use of grains, pulses, fruit, vegetables and nuts. 

MILK AND CREAM 

Should be kept in earthenware vessels or glass jars, whether 
for use while sweet or for the purpose of thicken- 
ing, creaming, skimming or cheesing. Soured milk used 
with tomato or lemon juice and sun-dried bread proves 
a refreshing meal. Whenever sweetening the cream with 
honey or other saccharine substances salt your milk and 
add a pinch of borax or saleratus to avoid action. 

CHEESE. 

Use it sparingly, remembering that it should be com- 
bined with other dishes. Cheese melted, cooked and baked 
is more easily digested than in its raw state. 

SCHMIERKASE. 

This is made from clabbered milk. After taking the 
cream from the top of a pan of thick, sour milk, stand the 
pan on the back part of the range and pour over it about 
three quarts of boiling v^^ater; then turn the whole into a 
bag to drain. Hang it in a cool place over night. When 
ready to use, mix and beat it until light. Add salt and 
sufficient sweet cream to make it the proper consistency. 
A little caraway seed may be mixed with the cheese if one 
'likes them. Finely-chopped green onion tops, mustard 
leaves, green parsley, fresh green tansy leaves, yarrow and 
shives, are often used for flavoring. Advisable in certain 
peculiar cases of private troubles. Roll the cheese out into 
balls. Serve with lettuce leaves garnished with watercress. 
Fine with vegetable salads and crackers, also as sand- 
wiches. 

BUTTER. 
Must be sweet and fresh to be of value. When out of 
season, it should be clarified by cooking it over slow fire 
and skimming the foam. As soon as clear, put up in earth- 
enware vessels. To be used in cooking, baking and fry- 
ing. For soups of exceptional value and easier digested 
than in the fresh state. Used to great advantage in colds. 

53 



DRESSINGS. 



The success of making dressings depends upon the clean- 
liness of the utensils used. First of all you want to have 
your bowl cold. If needs be kept on ice. The eggs as well 
as the oil must be cold. If need be drop a piece of ice into 
the oil to cool it. Always stir in one direction and stir or 
beat well. 

Should you ever have trouble with your dressing curd- 
Hng on you then begin again with the yolk of eggs in 
another dish, and after thoro beating and stirring add by 
teaspoonfuls the curdled mayonnaise and finish by adding 
more oil. 

Mayonnaise dressings should not be kept for more than 
a week, even though stored away in a cool place. 

You may add whipped cream, nut creams, powdered 
coriander seeds, onion juice, chopped olives, capers, pimen- 
toes, etc., to your dressing; all depending upon the kind of 
dish you intend to use it for. 

Never mix dressing with salad until ready for serving. 

PLAIN MAYONNAISE. 

To one-half cupful lemon or lime juice, add one tea- 
spoonful dry mustard, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, 
one-half teaspoonful sugar, dash of cayenne pepper, and 
pinch of salt ; beat well and add slowly one-fourth pint rich, 
sweet cream. Cook in double boiler until it thickens. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Into a bowl put one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful mustard and a dash of cayenne pepper ; add grad- 
ually six tablespoonfuls olive or salad oil, rubbing constant- 
ly; then add very slowly, while stirring, one tablespoonful 

54 



lemon or lime juice. The advantage of this dressing is 
that any kind of flavoring may be added, such as Worcester- 
shire or tobasco sauce, catsup, onion juice, garHc, etc. 

MAYONNAISE. 

Put yolks of two eggs into a cold bowl, stir with wooden 
or plated fork until light ; add one-fourth teaspoonful salt, 
then drop by drop, salad or olive oil. Time will be saved ' 
and danger of curdling avoided if oil and eggs are cold. 
After eight tablespoonfuls of oil have been added, begin to 
add alternately, one or two drops at a time, lemon or lime 
juice and oil, allowing two tablespoonfuls juice to each 
pint of oil. By adding lemon juice and oil alternately, a 
jelly-like or oily condition is prevented and the dressing 
will be nice and smooth. Stir in one direction only. More 
or less oil may be added, according to quantity of dressing 
desired. Do not add seasoning to dressing; it is better to 
season the salad. 

NICE DRESSING. 

Take the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, rub thru a sieve, 
mix in a bowl with the yolk of one raw egg ; add a pinch 
of salt, a dash of cayenne pepper and one tablespoonful 
mustard. While stirring one way with a wooden spoon, 
add slowly and alternately eight tablespoonfuls olive or 
salad oil and two tablespoonfuls lemon or lime juice, lastly 
add two tablespoonfuls finely-chopped olives, parsley and 
celery leaves. Excellent to serve with cold asparagus. 

SIMPLICITY DRESSING. 

Into a cold bowl beat three tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, one tablespoonful 
each of onion juice and finely-chopped parsley, a dash of 
cayenne pepper and salt. This quantity will serve with half 
a dozen eggs and suffice serving salads for three individual 
dishes. 

Instead of olive oil lightly melted butter may^ be used 
to good advantage, but in that case the onion has to be 
pmitted. 

55 



SAUCES. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Mix one tablespoonful white sugar with one cupful 
lemon juice and add finely-chopped mint. Parsley may be 
substituted for mint. Serve with green peas and other 
vegetables. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

To one cupful of milk add a dash of cayenne pepper and 
celery salt. Allow it to come to the boiling point. Now 
take one tablespoonful each of flour and oil. Cream it well 
and add to the milk as soon as the latter begins to simmer. 
Stir in well and until smooth. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Cook in double boiler for thirty minutes two cupfuls milk, 
one-half cupful toasted bread crumbs, and one small onion. 
Remove onion and add a little salt and cayenne pepper, 
then one tablespoonful olive oil, or one tablespoonful cocoa- 
nut butter creamed with one teaspoonful peanut butter. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Take a pint of tomato liquor to the scalding point ; add 
the juice of one onion, one or two bruised leaves of bay, a 
pinch of salt and sugar. Boil all together for five minutes, 
then strain and add a pinch of saleratus. Mix one table- 
spoonful of whole-wheat flour with one tablespoonful of 
olive oil and when well blended stir it into the tomato juice, 
and boil until thickened into the consistency of cream. May 
be thinned with milk or cream to suit taste. 

ITALUN DRESSING. 

One-half teaspoonful each of salt ^nd mustard, three 
dashes of cayenne pepper or five dashes paprica, creamed 

56 



with six tablespoonfuls of olive oil and three cloves of 
macerated garlic ; stir and add slowly two tablespoonfuls of 
sour red wine, one tablespoonful lemon juice. 

SWEET TOMATO SAUCE. 

Boil for one hour four tomatoes, with sufficient water to 
cover, together with one small onion, one tablespoonful 
sugar, one tablespoonful lemon juice, a pinch of mustard, 
ginger, and cinnamon, two sprigs each of parsley and pep- 
permint ; then strain. Brown one tablespoonful flour in 
two tablespoonfuls cocoanut butter or olive oil, and add to 
above juice. Boil until slightly thickened. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Fry to a golden brown one finely-chopped onion in two 
tablespoonfuls cocoanut butter, then add one tablespoonful 
flour; after flour has browned stir in gradually one cupful 
sweet milk and one-half cupful clear tomato juice. Cook 
until it thickens, then flavor with one teaspoonful peanut 
butter creamed with a little milk. 

SWEET SAUCE. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls cornstarch with one cupful 
sugar, add one cupful cold water. Put in saucepan, set on 
fire and cook until it is clear and thick, then add one table- 
spoonful cocoanut butter, or olive oil, and flavor to suit 
taste. As this sauce is a combination of three forms of 
carbon, its frequent use is not advised. Do not substitute 
creamery butter, or other animal fats, for the vegetable oils 
given. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Brown in oven one tablespoonful flour and mix to 
smooth paste with a little cold milk, add to one pint boiling 
milk or cream and cook for ten minutes ; add one cupful 
strained stewed tomatoes and mix thoroly. 

BROWNED SAUCE. 

To two tablespoonfuls of flour use equal quantity of olive 
oil. Put into a pan over slow fire to brown. Stir frequently 

57 



to avoid burning. As soon as brown pour gradually 
three cups of hot water into it, stirring it well. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of mixed nuts finely ground ; pine nuts pref- 
erable. As soon as perfectly smooth add one teaspoonful 
of mushroom catsup, a pinch of curry powder, celery salt 
and a bruised bay leaf. Allow it all to boil up slowly, when 
it will be ready for use either in soups to improve flavor or 
taste; for serving with symposia, fritters, spaghetti dishes, 
eggs and salads. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Make a sauce same as Browned Sauce. Add a can of 
finely cut mushrooms, including the liquor. Simmer for 
five minutes after adding the mushrooms. 

MUSHROOM GRAVY. 

Take one large onion, cut fine and cook in saucepan con- 
taining two tablespoonfuls of butter; when turning golden 
yellow, add the peels of fresh mushrooms to the amount 
of one cupful of cream. Fry one tablespoonful of finely 
cut parsley and add to the above ; then thicken with flour 
and salt to taste. Serve with mashed potatoes. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

To one pint of milk in saucepan add one onion, blade of 
mace, salt and cayenne pepper to suit taste. Stew gently. 
As soon as onion is cooked take it out and add enough stale 
bread crumbs to thicken. Stir but little and do not allow 
it to come to a boil. 

NUN'S BUTTER. 

- Beat one-quarter cup of butter to a cream, add gradually 
one cup of powdered sugar and beat until very light ; add 
the whites of two eggs, one at a time, and beat again until 
frothy. This is to be flavored with a tablespoonful of 
sherry wine, but if wine is not used take a teaspoonful of 
extract of almond, and add gradually to the mixture and 
beat once more. Heap it on a small dish, sprinkle lightly 
with grated nutmeg, and stand away on the ice to harden. 

58 



EGGS. 



Although eggs can be had all the year round, neverthe- 
less they have their season. When eggs are cheap and 
plentiful they are most wholesome and that is the time they 
are in season. 

Nearly everyone, changing from carnivorousness to 
vegetarianism, starts in on eggs as their principal diet, not 
knowing just what to select. It is well to remember that 
persons troubled by a torpid liver or kidney disease must 
use caution and care in eating eggs unless latter are being 
combined with mushrooms, spinach, peas and asparagus. 

Probably no article of diet receives more abuse at the 
hands of the cook than eggs. They answer admirably as 
food when properly prepared, but as usually served are 
valueless, and the human stomach would thankfully avoid 
their introduction were it possible. Chemical analysis of 
the egg shows that the white is almost pure albumen ; and 
that the yolk is composed of albumen, fats and phosphates. 
The yellow color of the yolk is due to a peculiar oil, made 
up chiefly of sulphur and phosphorus, which forms nearly 
two-thirds by weight of the perfectly dry yolk. If eggs 
are to be served in a wholesome state, it is necessary to 
prepare them intelligently, with a thoro knowledge of the 
effect of heat upon their component parts. In cooking 
eggs it must be remembered that albumen is completely 
coagulated below a temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit, 
and any greater heat will make this substance tough, horny 
and indigestible. Eggs, being a concentrated food, should 
be eaten sparingly. In cases of kidney troubles, gout and 
rheumatism, they will not be harmful provided they have 
been hard-boiled or poached according to instructions fol- 
lowing. Eggs, hard-boiled or poached at a temperature of 
212 degrees Fahrenheit, or fried, are deleterious to persons 

59 



suffering from these disorders, because the albumen, hav- 
ing been rendered tough and indigestible, ferments easily in 
the stomach and forms acids that are poisonous to the sys- 
tem. Eggs should not be eaten when fried, but raw or in 
custards, boiled or poached, according to following meth- 
ods: 

SOFT BOILING. 

Allow one pint of water to each egg. If you wish to boil 
six eggs, take six pints of water, put in a kettle or pan and 
bring to boiling point ; set on back portion of stove, putting 
in the eggs, allowing them to remain in the water for three 
to eight minutes. Promotes bowel action when eaten with 
fruit. 

HARD BOILING. 

Put in cold water, bring to 170 degrees Fahrenheit 
(about steaming point), set on back of stove for forty-five 
minutes. In this way the albumen will be reduced to a 
jelly-like substance, easily digested, and the yolks will be 
dry and mealy. A double boiler may be used to advantage, 
the temperature being more easily controlled, but the water 
in outer vessel must be continuously kept near the boiling 
point, as the contents of inner boiler will be heated to a less 
degree. 

SCRAMBLED. 

Eggs and omelets should be cooked at low temperature in 
double boiler, but not fried. 

POACHING. 

Put eggs in water of a temperature of 132 to 160 de- 
grees. Have enough water to cover, and as soon as film has 
formed over yolk and white is set and jelly-like, remove 
from water and serve at once. The use of egg-poachers is 
advised. Always keep water below boiling point. Remove 
the life germ from eggs broken for poaching or cooking 
purposes, as it is heating to the system. 

60 



CUSTARDS. 

It is preferable to cook custards in a double boiler rather 
than baking in an oven. If put in a china or earthenware 
bowl, set in a steam cooker and boil until done, the flavor 
will be found admirable. Do not flavor custards with nut- 
meg; this spice is objectionable because its poisonous prop- 
erties often produce cholera morbus. 

LENTEN CHOPS. 

Boil six eggs fifteen minutes, remove the shells, rub 
yolks thru a sieve and chop whites, not making them too 
fine. Put one cup of milk in pan over fire and when boiling 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of whole-wheat flour dissolved in 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; season with salt and a dash 
of cayenne pepper and stir until thick and smooth ; take 
from the fire and when almost cool stir in the prepared 
yolks and whites and a very little onion juice. When cold 
enough to handle form in shape of chops, roll them in 
beaten egg, then in cracker-dust or cornmeal and fry to a 
delicate brown in olive oil. Take a piece of macaroni about 
three or four inches long and stick into the small or pointed 
end of each chop and arrange in the center of a platter. 
Now take tomato or browned sauce and add to the same 
a can of French peas or extra small sifted peas and pour 
around the chops, but not on them. Mushrooms and tomato 
sauce make a very fine garnish when served with green 
parsley and lettuce leaves. 

COLUMBUS EGGS. 

Take the shells from six hard-boiled eggs and cut each egg 
in two around the Center, cutting off a little from the small 
end so that it can stand upright, as did the famous egg 
which Columbus handled ; pulverize half the yolks and mix 
with some finely chopped nuts, moistening with mayonnaise 
dressing; fill the empty whites, taking care not to break 
them; press the two parts together and stand on a platter 
so that they will have the appearance of eggs that have not 
been bisected. Now take the remaining half of the yolks, 
pulverize or mash them thru a sieve; take half a cup of 

61 



mayonnaise dressing and mix with it six olives chopped 
fine and pour this over the eggs ; then take the pulverized 
yolks and sprinkle over the top. Garnish the edges with 
watercress or sprigs of parsley. 

SWISS EGGS. 

Cover the bottom of an open baking dish with a little 
olive oil and on this scatter grated cheese ; drop the eggs 
upon the cheese without breaking the yolks and season with 
a very little salt. Pour over the eggs a little cream and 
then sprinkle over with grated cheese and set in moderate 
oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

POACHED EGGS ON TOAST. 

Toast slices of whole-wheat or rye bread to a golden 
brown in a moderate oven; while yet hot, dip them into 
boiling water for a few seconds ; remove quickly and lay on 
large platter. On each side lay one poached tgg; garnish 
with parsley or cress and serve hot. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, which have been dropped 
into cold water immediately after boiling; peel and cut in 
halves, taking care not to break whites. Take out yolks and 
rub them with one tablespoonful olive oil to a smooth 
paste ; add two tablespoonfuls chopped mushrooms and 
parsley flavored with lemon juice. Heat and mix well ; then 
stuff whites, garnish with lettuce or watercress and serve. 

BELGRAD EGGS. 

Take of¥ the shells from six hard-boiled eggs, chop the 
whites fine and rub the yolks thru a sieve. Do not mix them. 
Now put on a cup of milk to boil, rub a tablespoonful of 
cornstarch with a tablespoonful of olive oil and add to the 
boiling milk; then add the chopped whites, a little salt and 
a dash of cayenne pepper. Have ready a half dozen squares 
of toasted salt-rising bread on a platter, pour the mixture 
over the toast in a thin layer, then a layer of the prepared 
yolks, then the remainder of the whites and lastly the rest 

62 



of the yolks. Serve on lettuce leaves, garnished with pars- 
ley. Mushrooms, with lemon or asparagus and tomatoes, 
combine well with this dish. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Break six eggs into a bowl; add one pint hot milk and 
stir quickly. Add small spoonful cocoanut butter and a 
little salt; cook twenty minutes in double boiler. 

POACHED EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

To one can mushrooms placed in saucepan add one-half 
teaspoonful salt, a dash of cayenne pepper and a few drops 
lemon juice. Boil ten minutes, take out mushrooms and 
thicken sauce with a little flour. Pour sauce on platter, lay 
ten poached eggs around the outside, put mushrooms in 
center ; serve hot with toast. Garnish with parsley and 
watercress. 

APPLE OMELET. 

Pare and core four large apples. Boil until tender and 
rub thru sieve; beat smooth while hot and add one table- 
spoonful cocoanut butter, three tablespoonfuls sugar and 
one-half teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Whip separately 
the whites and yolks of four eggs ; add yolks first to the 
beaten apple, mixing well, then the whites. Pour all into a 
pudding dish and bake to a delicate brown in a moderate 
oven. The addition or pinon or pine nut-butter improves 
flavor. 

EGG PLANT OMELET. 

Pare one egg plant and cut in slices ; soak one hour in 
strong salt water. Take from salt water and put in sauce- 
pan, adding fresh water, and boil until tender. 

NEW OMELET. 

One cupful of fine bread crumbs ; pour over it two-thirds 
of a cupful of sweet milk; when thoroly moistened, stir 
until smooth. Add the yolks of two eggs, beating them into 
the bread and milk one at a time ; add the whites beaten to 

63 



a stiff froth; bake in a buttered dish in a moderate oven, 
until well set. The top may be sprinkled with grated cheese, 
or, for a sweet omelet, a sprinkling of maple sugar is rec- 
ommended. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Mix to a smooth paste three tablespoonfuls flour v/ith 
one-half pint milk. Beat together four eggs and one-fourth 
pound of grated old cheese. Add this to flour and milk, 
beating briskly for several minutes. May be cooked in 
individual dishes set in pan of boiling water, or in double 
boiler; boil thirty minutes. Serve with catsup or tomato 
sauce. 

VEGETABLE OMELET. 

Chop finely together one onion, two heads crisp lettuce, 
or parsley, and one green pepper, adding a little salt. Mix 
with four well-beaten eggs and three tablespoonfuls cream. 
Cook thirty minutes in double boiler or steam cocker. 
Serve in original dish. 

SPANISH OMELET. 

Chop finely one onion, one green pepper, a few strips of 
red pepper, one tablespoonful each of mushrooms and 
French peas, one-half tablespoonful of parsley. Mix into 
four well beaten eggs. Keep it all very cold. Now add 
three tablespoonfuls of cream. Pour into dish which will 
set in a large pan of boiling water. Put into hot oven and 
boil and bake for fifteen minutes. 

TOMATO SCRAMBLE. 

Bring two tablespoonfuls of butter to melting point, 
drop into it a finely chopped onion and when about tender 
add small bits of two fresh tomatoes (canned may be 
used) and one teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Al- 
low to simmer for three minutes and then add four well- 
beaten eggs and two tablespoonfuls of rich cream. Stir 
slowly for three minutes and serve on lettuce, garnished 
with endive and radishes. 

64 



FRITTERS AND PATTIES. 

BREAD FRITTERS. 

Take stale bread, toast it in slices after it has first been 
dipped into cold water. Make a batter of one cupful of 
flour, one yolk and the white of an Qgg, each well beaten, 
a pinch of cinnamon, salt and sugar, and one-half cupful 
of milk. Dip toast into cold water again and then into the 
batter and drop into hot oil. They will be done in one 
minute. 

VEGETABLE FRITTERS. 

Grind coarse one cupful each of carrots and parsnips 
and one-half cupful salsify. Boil them for thirty minutes 
in separate vessels. Pour off water and allow to cool. Now 
mix them together with one and one-half cupfuls flour and 
one cupful milk. Salt to taste. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
oil. Stir into it the yolks and whites of two well-beaten 
eggs. Fry in hot oil. 

AERATED CORN FRITTERS. 

Take a can of corn or two cupfuls of fresh corn and 
mix into it one-half cupful cream. Beat separately the 
yolks and whites of two eggs. Stir in one cupful of flour 
or more, if necessary. Salt to taste and stir in three tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar with a tablespoon of oil. Stir the batter 
thoroly in the open air or before the door or an open 
window. If the batter is not thin enough, add a little milk. 
Batter is to be medium thick. Have some oil hot and 
enough in the pan so the batter will be covered when 
dropped into the frying pan. Drop in a spoonful of the 
batter. Turn, the fritters at their browned sides with a 

65 



knife. They will rise double their size and be perfectly 
aerated. Very wholesome and toothsome and especially 
adapted to those who do not like to take oil clear. They 
may use the fritters from time to time. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

To two cupfuls finely chopped green corn, add the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs, one-half cupful ground toast, 
one cupful milk, one level teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 
nut butter, and the well-beaten whites of three eggs. Mix 
thoroly; drop from spoon into hot oil and fry to a golden 
brown. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

To two cupfuls cold, well-boiled rice, add two cupfuls 
cracker-dust, two teaspoonfuls sugar, two teaspoonfuls olive 
oil, or three teaspoonfuls cocoanut butter, one level tea- 
spoonful salt, a dash of ground cinnamon, two well-beaten 
eggs, one cupful scalded milk, bhape into balls and roll 
into well-beaten egg, then into cracker-dust and fry to a 
nice brown in hot oil, or cocoanut butter. Serve with pea- 
nut or almond butter. 

TOMATO FRITTERS. 

To one can tomatoes add four cloves, two bay leaves, one 
tablespoonful finely chopped parsley, pinch of cayenne pep- 
per, two tablespoonfuls scraped onion, one-half cupful 
toasted bread crumbs ; put in saucepan and cook on fire for 
ten miutes. Take off fire and rub thru sieve all that is 
possible. Return to fire and add three tablespoonfuls 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt, three tablespoonfuls cocoanut 
butter or two tablespoonfuls olive oil ; when boiling begins 
add two tablespoonfuls flour mixed to a smooth paste with 
a little cold water ; boil two minutes, then pour into shallow 
dish to set. When cold and firm, turn out, cut into slices 
of various shapes, roll in beaten egg, then cracker-dust and 
fry to a golden brown in hot oil. Garnish with parsley and 
serve with catsup. 

66 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

To one cupful whole-wheat flour add yolks of two eggs, 
one-half pint milk, one tablespoonful olive oil ; beat until 
smooth. Grate slowly three peeled apples into the batter; 
then add the beaten whites of the eggs. Drop with table- 
spoon into hot oil. Serve as desired. 

Instead of apples, seeded prunes, peaches or other fruits 
may be used. Put grape juice and powdered sugar over 
the fruit, let stand for one hour, turn once, then dip in bat- 
ter as used for apple fritters and fry in oil. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS. 

Take one dozen oyster plants ; throw each piece, as soon 
as washed and scraped, into water to prevent discoloration. 
Cut into slices and boil in saucepan over fire until tender. 
Drain and mash thru colander; add one tablespoonful flour, 
one level teaspconful salt, two well-beaten eggs; mix and 
drop with spoon into hot oil. When browned, serve with 
sauce to taste. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Cut into halves crosswise six peeled bananas, put in dish 
and sprinkle over one-half cupful powdered sugar, then 
pour on the juice of two large navel oranges ; set in cool 
place one hour, turning occasionally. Roll alternately sev- 
eral times in beaten egg and cracker-dust and fry in hot oil. 
Serve with sauce to taste. Other fruit may be used in place 
of banana for variety. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Scrape or pare (according to age) four parsnips, cut in 
small pieces and boil until soft. When done drain off water 
and mash fine ; add one egg well beaten, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one-quarter teaspoonful salt and a dash of cayenne 
pepper. Mix well and form into cakes ; fry in olive oil until 
brown. With these fritters serve (if you eat them) pota- 
toes au Gratin — made as follows : Six or seven cold boiled 
potatoes, four heaping tablespoonfuls grated cheese, one 
cup cream, one cup milk, yolks of three eggs, two table- 

67 



spoonfuls olive oil, one tablespoonful flour ; salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste. Put the cream and milk over the fire in a 
saucepan and add the flour mixed in the oil, when beginning 
to boil ; stir until smooth, then take from the fire. Now add 
the yolks well beaten, the cheese, salt and a dash of cayenne 
pepper and mix. Put a layer of this sauce in the bottom of 
a baking dish, then a layer of potatoes cut up in small 
bits, then more sauce and more potatoes until the dish is 
filled, or rather, until all the sauce and potatoes have been 
put in ; sprinkle an extra tablespoonful or two over the top 
and place in a hot oven for ten minutes to brown. Serve 
in the dish in which it was baked. This makes a delicious 
dinner with the addition of cream of bean soup. 

JOLLY BOYS FRITTERS. 

Mix one pint of rye meal, one cup whole-wheat flour, 
one-half cup cornmeal, two large teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
one teaspoonful ground cinnamon and one-half teaspoonful 
of salt; then add four eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, and enough cold water to make a very thick 
batter; beat well and set aside for an hour or more. Drop 
by the spoonful into a kettle of hot oil. Brown on both 
sides, take out with a skimmer and serve very hot. The 
batter should be almost as thick as soft dough. Nun's but- 
ter should accompany these fritters. 

BREAD FRITTERS. 

Soak one-half loaf bread in milk ; mash fine and add one 
tablespoonful flour, two well-beaten eggs, one-half cupful 
currants or seedless raisins, one grated rind of lemon. Mix 
well and drop from spoon in hot oil. Fry to golden brown ; 
serve garnished with lettuce or cress. 

CORN OYSTER FRITTERS. 

One can of corn, three eggs, beaten separately, one-fourth 
cupful of milk, a little salt. Enough flour to make a light 
batter. Use things in routine as given. Drop into hot oil 
with a spoon and bake until brown. 

68 



FRENCH FRITTERS. 

One cup flour, one-half cup cold water, two eggs, one 
tablespoonful of olive oil, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Put 
the flour into a bowl ; beat the yolks of the eggs, add the 
cold water and stir this gradually into the flour; if neces- 
sary, add more water and give a good, vigorous beating. 
Now add the salt and oil, and stir in the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, and put away for at least two hours, 
but not longer than ten hours, according to season. Put a 
kettle of oil on to heat, and when hot (360 degrees) dip up 
a spoonful of the batter and quickly slide into the kettle of 
oil ; when brown on one side, turn and brown the other. 
When done, take out with a skimmer; don't use a fork, as 
piercing allows the steam to escape and makes the fritters 
heavy. Fruit fritters are made by dipping the fruit into 
this batter and then frying or boiling in oil. 

LIMA BEAN PATTIES. 

Press cold, left-over beans thru a fine sieve. To each 
half-pint add the yolk of one Qgg, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley and half a teaspoonful of onion juice, if 
desired. Form into little cakes or balls, dip into the white 
of the egg that has been slightly beaten with a tablespoon- 
ful of water. Roll in breadcrumbs and fry in deep, hot 
cottonseed oil. 



PLAIN POTATO FRITTERS. 

Grate three large potatoes, add three tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one well-beaten egg, stir rapidly and add one heap- 
ing tablespoonful of sugar, one small teaspoonful of salt, 
and continue to stir in the shade or cold. Have a 
deep pan filled with cottonseed or cooking oil about two 
inches deep, and as soon as hot drop by tablespoonfuls 
into the oil. Should be well done and crisp in three 
minutes. May be served with fruit. 

In case potatoes prove too watery it is best to pour off 
water of the freshly grated raw potatoes and use only half 
the quantity of flour, which makes the cakes more palatable. 

69 



FRUITS 



THEIR VIRTUE AND USE. 

As water was not intended for man, but for beast and 
for the creations of the earth, Nature has most wisely ar- 
ranged its processes in the vegetable kingdom to distill 
the mineral waters thru the growth of higher organized 
vegetables and fruits to assist man in his labors in beauti- 
fying the earth thru the reclaiming of her deserts and to re- 
lieve him of redeeming the waters so as to make them whole- 
some and nutritious. 

Of all the products in the vegetable kingdom fruits are 
Nature's highest achievement in the efifort of creating dis- 
tilled water, and as a water of life not only to tone up the 
action of the organs, but also to assist assimilation as well 
as elimination. Fruits are Nature's panacea for human ills. 
They contain all the medicinal properties needed to keep 
man in a state of health, and judiciously compounded or 
used with discretion as well as guided by proper selection 
in time and season corresponding to man's temperament, 
basic principles and natural inclinations, prove the safest 
and surest means unto prevention of disease, assuring per- 
fect health of body and promoting unfoldment of mental 
propensities as well as psychic talents, assisted by spiritual 
endowments, revealing to man what in all his academic 
studies and lifelong bitter experiences he failed to discover 
or to learn. 

The judicious use of fruits in accordance to climatic 
conditions will "cool the fevered brow and stay the tottering 
footsteps to the grave." As there is such a great variety 
of fruits it is scarcely possible to speak separately of every 
one in a publication with limited space, but mention will 
be made of the most important ones and those commonly 
known or those indigenous to the United States and her 
diverse possessions. Then, too, every person differs from 
every other person as to temperament, and consequently 
as to tastes, ai>d no iron-clad rule can be given which 

70 



v/ould govern all cases. Every person must learn thru 
hunger and self-imposed fasts, thru right thinking and 
simple living how to determine the proper selection of fruits 
most congenial and effective to their particular nature. The 
principal proportion of each fruit mentioned will be given 
and deductions must be drawn accordingly. 

All fruits, whether for eating or cooking purposes, 
must, of course, be sound, and eaten slowly. They should 
be scraped, grated, thinly sliced or eaten in very small bites 
at a time, so as to mix with saliva to make the fruit for 
what it is intended, an eliminator, an assimilator, a tonic, 
a medicine. Most fruits are best in their suncooked state, 
when cool and highly flavored. They should be eaten 
fresh and in season. 

When a certain fruit, otherwise to one's liking, seems 
too tart, do not use sugar, but mix with another, a sweet 
fruit. In that case the tart fruit will become palatable and 
will not lose its virtue. 

Small fruits such as strawberries, raspberries, black- 
berries, blueberries, gooseberries and currants, are excellent 
eliminators, providing they are ripe and sweet. If tart, 
they should be soaked in orange or grape juice or in sweet 
cream. Never use sugar with fresh fruits of any kind. 

Apples and pears may be grated, thinned with orange 
or grapefruit juice, and served with whipped cream. 

Peaches, bananas, apricots, figs, nectarines, plums and 
pomegranates should be sliced and the sweet combined 
with the tart so as to make a sub-acid dish which will prove 
of inestimable value to those suffering from indigestion and 
liver complaint. 

Bananas should be mashed when to be eaten alone 
and served with grape juice and whipped cream, or baked 
with rice or used as fritters. 

Dates do not reach us in their ripe state, but in the 
cured, and are eliminators only when combined with figs, 
while with additional nut 'cream they will be an excellent 
and nutritious food to those caring for a heavy dish. 

Cherries should be eaten by themselves and two different 
varieties should be indulged in, the sweet and the hearty 
ones, black and red, and black and v/hite. They are ''food 
for the Gods" and much might be said of their valuable 

71 



properties. Eat cherries daily while they last and make a 
meal on them. Consumptives, catarrhals and those suffer- 
ing from hay fever will find in the cherry a remedy. 

Grapes, Hke cherries, should be eaten by themselves, but 
it is well to combine two or three varieties. The white 
alone prove of value to rheumatic and dropsical people. 
Catarrhal and bronchial people should not use any grapes. 
The fresh juice of grapes, particularly of the black or blue, 
will be of medicinal value to all those suffering from over- 
accumulation of salts and acids, if used in small quantities 
at a time, several times a day, and to the amount of one 
pint a day, for the period of six weeks. 

Grapefruit is best during winter and early spring. 

Lemons are of inestimable value all the year around 
and may be used advantageously to redeem saccharine 
fruits and fruits altho very aciduous yet of high flavor. 
P>uits that would prove otherwise too tart will be increased 
in medicinal value when prepared with lemon juice. The 
limes may be used in the same way, altho less advan- 
tageously. 

Fresh fruits when cooked lose a great deal of their 
medicinal value when cooked with fresh water. A little 
distilled water may be used or well-filtered rain water just 
to give the fruit thru steaming time to eventually cook in 
its own juice. A little sweet butter may be added to raise 
the heat and thus retain the flavor. Sugar should not be 
used, but syrup, honey or molasses may be added just a few 
minutes before the dish is to be taken from the fire. 

Flavors may be used in their original natural state, like 
tonka beans or vanilla pods, cinnamon bark and cloves. They 
should be added about fifteen minutes before the dish is to 
be taken off the fire and then be removed, as allowing these 
sticks to remain in the dish will rob the fruit of its delicate 
flavors and depreciate its medicinal value. 

Orange, citrus and lemon peels may be used in the same 
way as the flavors and to a great advantage. 

Disease germs of a mineral nature may be readily 
eliminated from the system thru a judicious selection of 
fruits. To effect a cure it will be necessary for the north- 
erner to use the fruits of the extreme South or the tropics, 
while the equatorian should confine himself to northern 

72 



products. In this case it will not be necessary for either of 
them to leave their place of business, as change and recrea- 
tion does not imply change of scenery, but change of 
methods. 

If fruits disagree with you *t is because of your aciduous 
condition, in which case your stomach no longer separates 
your food, but leaves the operations to the aciduous side 
of the digestive apparatus, leaving the salts or minerals un- 
digested, forcing crystallization upon the acids themselves, 
consequently weakening the functional operations of the 
stomach and its relative organs. A little fast and until 
absolutely hungry, in which case an old crust of bread and 
a sound apple will taste better than the much lauded Christ- 
mas dinner, assures a means unto a cure. Such fasts re- 
peated once a week or even oftener will teach one that in 
reality we deny ourselves nothing of the joys and pleasures 
of life except — disease. 

FRUITS, FRESH, DRIED AND CANNED. 

Uncooked fresh fruits should not be flavored; fruits 
without a decided flavor characteristic to their kind are not 
wholesome and contain no remedial value, but may be re- 
deemed and used to a great advantage if combined with 
wholesome fruits and when steamed. 

A very wholesome dish for invalids is fruits cooked in 
their own juice with a little butter and steamed in a double 
boiler. 

Baked, also fried fruits, may be used to a great advan- 
tage, especially by invalids. 

Dried fruits can be redeemed to their natural flavor and 
sweetness by first washing them thoroly but very quickly 
in lukewarm water, allowed to stand in cold water for 
four or more hours and then allowed to simmer slowly 
in the water absorbed. 

Tha use of sugar should be in the form of white syrup, 
honey or molasses, but the less of it used the better. To 
increase the natural sweetness of the fruit it is best to use a 
stick of cinnamon bark, vanilla beans and the rind of lemon. 

When fruit is found to be too sweet after steaming, re- 
deem it by using the juice of a slowly baked lemon. 

Dried fruits, simply boiled and sugared without an op- 

73 



portunity to develop their original natural fullness and 
then sugar-coated, may be termed a boarding-house dish 
and are unfit for food, as such a dish lacks the medicinal 
value for which it was intended by Nature. 

For the ordinarily healthy the fruits of the local market 
or clime suffice to perform the natural function, and only 
at change of season should one in good health indulge in a 
radical change, subsisting on foreign fruits for three to ten 
days, and until he hankers after the usual regime. But when 
under the weather he should at once resort to foreign fruits 
and a change of menu. 

Dried fruits, altho of another clime, do not possess the 
same amount of medicinal value and the effect is not at all 
the same as in fresh fruits. 

Canned fruits are more suitable for garnishing and 
should be served on toast, biscuits or flaked grains. They 
serve as an excellent repast and may be used to flavor grain 
and nut dishes. The food value itself will be credited to 
the dish served with. 

To redeem the canned fruits to their medicinal value in 
a measure they are to be served in thoroly aged liquors, 
and should be eaten with sun-cooked or electrically pre- 
pared cereals, with abundant rich, whipped cream. 

In the absence of cream canned fruits should be flavored 
with vanilla or cinnamon. 

In the absence of liquors spice them with a dash of mace, 
saffron and cloves, using cream. 

Peaches and pears are not to be indulged in by cancerous 
or scrofulous people, except when out of season, which 
means eat these fruits three to six months ahead of your 
local season, or go to the land lying in the opposite direc- 
tion from the equator. 

Apples and oranges are not to be eaten by dyspeptics 
except out of season, which means to say eat apples during 
spring and oranges in early autumn. 

Make it a point to consume the diverse fruits of the local 
market as they come in order, but avoid mixing vegetables 
with fruits at the same meal unless the object is to induce 
action, but even then one is to remember that but one vege- 
table goes with a fruit dinner, or but one fruit with a vege- 
table dinner. 

74 



GRAPEFRUIT. 

Particularly adapted in cases of blood poisoning and an 
unfailing remedy in summer complaint, skin eruptions and 
blood diseases in general. Should be eaten freely. 

APPLES. 

In the past, have ofttimes been underestimated as to their 
royal qualities, and it is only in late years that their true 
values have been universally recognized. The apple may 
be justly considered the queen of fruits, though, of course, 
this has no bearing on Eve's weakness in the garden re- 
corded by the ancient allegory. The nutritive value of the 
apple is about 14 per cent, and consists chiefly of carbo- 
hydrates and vegetable acids. It also contains a generous 
amount of phosphorus, which makes it particularly valuable 
to brain workers and persons with nervous tendencies ; also 
to children and to the aged. The apples have an additional 
advantage over other fruits In that they can easily be kept 
on hand at all seasons of the year in a fresh condition with- 
out canning. Only the soft and juicy varieties, when ripe, 
should be eaten raw ; those hard and partially unripe should 
be boiled, particularly the variety known as the Ben Davis. 
Apples are rich in iron and are valuable in cases of anaemia. 

APRICOTS 

Are the result of a cross between a peach and a plum, and 
offer little of value for food. As a rule they are woody and 
often cause distress to those who eat them. 

BANANAS 

Are a nutritious food when ripened in their native haunts, 
but those sold in northern and remote markets are to be 
used cautiously. Partial decomposition has taken place 
during the ripening process, and fermentation begins almost 
as soon as the fruit has been taken into the stomach. Bana- 
nas for shipment have been picked when green, and often 
stored before ripening In damp cellars, the odors of which 
the fruit readily absorbs. The banana contains about 14 
per cent nutriment, consisting chiefly of carbohydrates, 

75 



which, when the fruit is green, is principally in the form of 
starch; but in the ripening process on the stalk this starch 
is changed to grape sugar and soluble starch, which form 
a valuable food suited to warm climates. The brown va- 
riety is sweeter than the yellow and of finer grain. Com- 
bined with other fruits and nuts may prove serviceable. 

BLACKBERRIES 

Furnish a valuable combination of acids, phosphates, 
iron and other minerals in an organized state ; but, as the 
seeds and pulp are injurious to various bodily organs, 
only the juice should be used. Boil the berries, strain thru 
flannel bag and bottle the juice in an unfermented state; 
or convert into jelly. Makes a very refreshing drink, 
valuable when the blood has become impoverished and is 
lacking in iron. 

CHERRIES 

Are "food for the gods" and much might be said of their 
valuable properties. Suflice it to say that they should be 
eaten whenever desired. It is well to have a quantity 
canned that they may be on hand at all seasons of the 
year. The unfermented juice makes a valuable table 
wine. It may be made from jelly dissolved in the neces- 
sary quantity of water to suit the taste. 

CRANBERRIES 

Make an excellent sauce, valuable to serve with nut 
preparations, but should be put thru sieve or colander be- 
fore eating. The rinds are indigestible. 

DATES, 

In dried state, contain 62 per cent of carbohydrates, are very 
nutritious and should be eaten sparingly. Only first-class 
qualities should be used. 

CURRANTS 

Which are imported in the dried state are seedless, and 
therefore better than home-grown varieties, which are 
nearly all rind and seeds. Only the juice of the latter 

76 



should be used, either in the form of jelly or bottled in an 
unfermented state. Dried currants should be thoroly 
washed before boiling. Boil in two waters, pouring off 
the first after five minutes' use. 

FIGS, 

In dried state, contain 70 per cent carbohydrates ; they are 
valuable as food but should be eaten sparingly. Select for 
use only those of first quality, as the cheaper grades con- 
tain vast multitudes of animalculse which, when taken in- 
to the stomach, produce violent headaches. The white, 
sugary deposit, which may easily be seen by the naked 
eye, contains the animalculse; they are visible only with 
the aid of a microscope. Raisins, prunes, dates, currants, 
etc., having these white deposits, should be carefully 
scrutinized for the same reason. 

GOOSEBERRIES 

Have no other use than to be made into jelly and jam. 
The seeds and rinds in all cases should be discarded. 

LEMONS 

Are the most valuable of all citrus fruits, and their medicinal 
properties are widely known. To get the full values, they 
should be baked in a moderate oven until soft, care being 
taken that they do not burn or burst. The action of heat 
during baking forms organized salicylic acid, which is a 
valuable diaphoretic. In cases of colds and pulmonary 
disorders, it acts very effectively. Only organized salicylic 
acid, such as made from citrus fruits, especially the lemon, 
or pure oil of wintergreen, should ever be used as a dia- 
phoretic; the commercial acid, which is unorganized and 
made from carbolic acid (a coal tar product), is a deadly 
poison and should in no case be taken into the stomach. 
Lem.on juice should take the place of vinegar at all times. 

NECTARINES 

Are the result of a cross between a plum and a peach. 
They have little to commend them more than to give addi- 
tional variety. 

77 



ORANGES 

Furnish a delicious juice which is refreshing and very 
appetizing. May be taken to advantage in the morning 
just before breakfast. The pulp and rind should be dis- 
carded. Avoid the use of the rinds of oranges, which 
contain an oil which produces a biting and stinging sensa- 
tion to the lips; the juice is poisonous to the system. The 
navel is the best variety. 



PEACHES 



Perfectly ripe and of good quality, are wholesome in mod- 
erate quantities; if eaten green, form a subject for another 
"Tale of Woe." The fuzzy skin should be removed from 
a peach before eating; if taken into the stomach, it often 
causes convulsions and great distress. Peach kernels con- 
tain hydrocyanic acid (a deadly poison) in a very weak 
solution, and if eaten in quantities, produce deleterious ef- 
fects. The kernel of the plum, cherry, apricot, nectarine 
and bitter almonds also contain poisonous properties and 
should not be eaten. 

GRAPES 

Were of the earth when it was young and drank its 
glories from the gates of Paradise. No fruit has more ex- 
cellent food values than the grape. From time immemo- 
rial it has graced the tables of the rich and poor alike, and 
furnished them with wine unequaled by the nectar of the 
gods. Bread and wine are still the chief articles of diet 
of many who live in the Orient. The salts and acids 
which this fruit contains enrich the blood and do much to 
keep it in a state of purity. The seeds and rind are indi- 
gestible and should not be eaten. A glass of wine taken 
at each meal instead of coffee or tea would ''open wide 
the portals of the mind and let the light of reason in." 
In speaking of wine, the unfermented grape juice is 
meant ; that which has been impregnated with ferment is 
not a food, though, in some cases, it may be used as a 
medicine. From the infinite variety of grapes, choice may 
be made to suit any taste. Avoid the variety known as 
the "Catawba ;" they are poisonous to many persons. 

78 



PEARS, 

In most cases, have a woody fiber, which is indigestible. 
Those varieties which are juicy and tender, and which are 
not grainy, may be eaten occasionally to advantage. The 
chief values are in the juices, which contain organized 
mineral salts, such as iron and sodium, also phosphorus, 
etc. 

PLUMS 

Contain an acid which is injurious to the digestive organs 
of many persons, and should not be eaten when deleteri- 
ous effects are noticed. Prunes are a very nutritious fruit 
and should be eaten whenever desired. They afford the 
highest nerve and brain food, supply heat and waste, but 
are not muscle feeding. In all instances when dried 
prunes are used, pour off the first water after cooking ten 
minutes; add fresh boiling water to cover and boil six to 
eight hours. This makes them tender and very delicious. 
In all cases the first water should be removed, as it car- 
ries away the sulphur and alkali used during the process 
of drying and preparing for the market. 

POMEGRANATES 

Though indigenous to the Orient, are successfully grown 
in the warmer portions of the United States. They are 
very delicious, though they contain no known medicinal 
properties. 

RASPBERRIES, 

Like blackberries, should be used only for making wines 
and jellies. The seeds and pulp aifect the digestive organs 
in such a way as to cause great distress. They should 
not, in any case, be given to invalids or convalescents. 
The juice is very refreshing and may be freely used. 

STRAWBERRIES 

Are very beneficial, and make their appearance in the 
spring and early summer in time to be of great value as 
a blood purifier. They should be freely eaten, but well 

79 



masticated to reduce the seeds which might, in some in- 
stances, cause distress to the stomach. Strawberries are 
rich in iron. 

PINEAPPLES 

Are from "the garden of the gods." They furnish a food 
of great value to those who Hve in tropical climes. The 
juice is very soothing to the digestive organs, and numer- 
ous cases of chronic dyspepsia have been completely cured 
by their use. When canned pineapples are used, select 
those which have been preserved in glass jars in prefer- 
ence to the ones in tin cans, as the acid forms a poisonous 
oxide in the latter case. 

BANANA CREAM. 

Mash four bananas and whip one cup of sweet cream. 
Mix both and whip thoroly until light. Serve with 
shredded wheat biscuits or with cereals heated in a moder- 
ate oven for five minutes. A dash of nutmeg or a few 
drops of vanilla may add to the taste. 

DAINTY DESSERT. 

Whipped cream with any fresh fruit :crushed and beaten 
or folded into cream. May be served in a well baked pie 
crust, half peel of oranges or in biscuit. 

PERSIMMONS. 

The Japanese persimmon is the better, altho the south- 
ern may be used to good advantage if combined with 
other fruits. In cases of dyspepsia and general debility 
the persimmon, if thoroly ripened, soft and frostbitten, 
will prove an excellent remedial agent, and combined with 
sweet mangoes and pomegranates, abstaining from vege- 
tables and other fruits for five weeks, aids nature to ac- 
complish a perfect cure, assuring perfect assimilation. 

80 



JELLIES. 



As an article of food, jellies may be eaten occasionally. 
In many cases they cause a disturbed condition of the 
stomach, and persons with obese or diabetic tendencies 
should carefully avoid their use; also candies, syrups and 
sugar. 

Jellies may be used to advantage in making refreshing 
wines by dissolving in sufficient cold water to dilute to taste. 
Serve in glasses after a meal. 

The secret in making good jellies lies in the selection of 
the fruit and the attention and care given to it when boiling, 
considering the scrupulous cleanliness of the vessels used 
above all other things. 

Select the fruit desired, boil in porcelain or graniteware 
kettle, adding a little water if necessary, until soft; strain 
and mash thru a suitable cloth, flannel preferred, and 
allow one pound of granulated sugar to each pint of juice. 
Boil again for five minutes, then add the sugar and boil 
until it jellies or draws into threads as you spoon it. 

All jellies should be preserved in glassware, never metal, 
and should be kept in a cool, dark place, free from damp- 
ness. Light is very destructive to their keeping qualities. 

The use of jellies by picnic and camping out parties for 
making appetizing drinks must be tried to be appreciated. 
On these occasions a tempting lunch will be given addi- 
tional relish by an accompanying fruit juice of coveted 
flavor. 

Plum jelly should not be used, as the fruit acid too often 
causes acidulation of the stomach, with following pain and ^ ^^ 
distress. 



81 



MEAT. 

That meat is not food for man needs not to be forcibly 
presented to the cultured and intellectual mind. This fact 
is as readily recognized by those having refined sensibilities, 
as the simple law that purity cannot emanate from degrada- 
tion. Flesh eating is a remnant of man's bygone barbarism 
which should be long forgotten. At the dawn of the twen- 
tieth century the orient light of wisdom more forcefully 
heralds forth the admonition that man must cease to defile 
God's temple. The so-called religionists, who "pray in high 
places" and strive so earnestly to show their fellow-men the 
righteous road which leads to peace and everlasting life, 
forget that they should first seek purity in themselves before 
they guide the erring ones along the narrow way. Purity 
of mind can only follow purity of body, and lofty senti- 
ments and ideas cannot emanate from pork chops, sausages 
or chicken fricassee. 

The eating of meat, in many instances, has been the cause 
of great distress in social and family circles ; and it has 
been known to change affairs of state and plunge whole 
nations into ruin. , 

It is well known to students of history that the dinner 
eaten by Napoleon the Great just before the battle of Leip- 
sic proved so indigestible that the monarch's brain became 
iconfused, and, as a result, the battle was lost. 

The eel stews of Mohammed II kept the whole empire 
in a state of nervous excitement, and one of the meat pies 
which King Philip failed to digest caused the revolt of the 
Netherlands. 

The immutable law of evolution has designed that life 
must pass from the mineral kingdom to that of the vegeta- 
ble, and from the vegetable kingdom to that of the animal. 
Man's transgression of this law by the eating of flesh has 

82 



brought the human race to a state of degeneracy which time 
and righteous Hving alone can change. 'Thou shalt not 
kill'* is a divine commandment, given to man at the dawn 
of his creation to guide him in a life of righteousness and 
purity. Moses embodied this same commandment in the 
law which he formulated to govern the children of Israel. 
The penalty for its disobedience has always been the 
same — death. "Thou shalt not kill" is not confined to man 
alone, but governs the entire animal kingdom. The killing 
of an ox is a transgression of the law the same as the killing 
of a man ; the penalty remains the same. Kill not at all, 
and eat not that which has been killed. 

The eating of flesh will not build up cellular tissue in 
man ; this can only be done by a vegetable diet. Flesh foods 
load the blood with impurities and cause rapid disintegra- 
tion, making of man a walking graveyard and a human 
garbage barrel. If man did not eat potatoes, white yeast 
bread, and meat, nor use narcotic beverages, such as spirit- 
uous liquors, tea, and coffee, 90 per cent of the evils exist- 
ing today would be removed. 

It is not within the province of this modest volume to 
argue on matters appertaining to the proper diet of man. 
We do not propose to take the religious, neither the 
humanitarian, standpoint ; taking for granted that man is 
the offspring of an Infinite Intelligence we choose to call 
God, the better self must have had scientific reasons for 
barring flesh meats from the table of man when com- 
manding, according to Genesis, i, 29-30: "And God said, 
Behold, I have given you every herb yielding seed which 
is upon all the face of the earth, and every tree in which 
is the fruit of a tree-yielding seed ; to you it shall be for 
food ; and to every beast of the earth and to every fowl 
of the air, and to everything that creepeth upon the earth, 
wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for 
food." 



83 



NUTS. 

The proper food for man is an intelligent combination 
of fruits, grains, nuts and vegetables. An infinite variety 
may be secured, suited to all conditions and occasions. 

Nuts, because of their oily nature, should be used in com- 
bination with fruit, the acids of the latter aiding greatly in 
digestion. They may be used to great advantage with vege- 
tables and grains. 

Popcorn eaten with black walnuts or hickory nuts forms 
new flavors which are delicious and appetizing. 

Nut preparations are very wholesome, but should be used 
in small quantities, as they are a condensed food. 

Every family should have a mill with which to grind 
cereals, nuts, vegetables, etc., and many delicacies may be 
easily and cheaply made at home. Those who are beginning 
to see that meat-eating is not conducive to healthful condi- 
tions of mind and body, will find nut preparations a valu- 
able aid in making a radical change to vegetarianism. The 
following recipes will aid in suggesting various other nut 
dishes. 

HOW TO MAKE PEANUT BUTTER. 

Take eight pounds of roasted peanuts, put them thru 
the mill, opened wide, to break up the shells and rub off the 
red skins, it will separate the kernels into halves ; then with 
a hand bellows or wind mill blow away the shells. Add to 
the kernels all the salt that will adhere to them, and then 
pass them thru the mill, grinding to a fine, smooth, soft, 
oily, tough, delicious yellow butter that will spread on 
crackers, bread, etc. You have now five pounds of nut 
butter that contains more nutriment than ten pounds of 
cow butter which would cost you two dollars and fifty cents. 
Roasted peanuts turn to butter, raw ones make meal when 
ground thru our mill. 

S4 



PINON OR PINE NUT BUTTER. 

Roast and grind pine nuts and prepare same as other 
nut butters. Very fine for flavoring soups, etc. 

FILBERTS. 

Blanch same as almonds. Place in moderate oven for a 
few minutes until dry and crisp. Grind to fine meal on mill. 
Use same as others. 

BRAZIL NUT BUTTER. 

After shelling, blanch and roast for a few minutes in 
moderate oven. Grind to very fine meal. Used in small 
quantities, gives a delicious flavor to cereal preparations. 
Better when freshly prepared. 

WALNUT BUTTER. 

Use the paper-shell English walnut. After shelling, 
blanch same as almonds. Put in oven until slightly 
browned, then grind to fine meal on mill. Pack in air-tight 
glass jars and set in cool place. May be used with any fruit 
or grain dish. 

HICKORY NUTS. 

After being shelled, set the kernels into moderate oven 
for a few minutes, then grind on mill. Put in air-tight 
glass jars and set away in cool place. A little nut oil may 
be added on top, if desired. Very fine for flavoring soups, 
symposia and other dishes. 

CHESTNUTS. 

The large Italian or Apennine chestnuts are best. Boil 
them, when fresh, for twenty minutes, then bake in hot oven 
for ten minutes, or until mealy ; puncture shells with knife 
or fork to prevent bursting. Peel and grind into flour. Put 
into jars and set in dry place; will keep indefinitely. May 
be used in soups, symposia, bread, grains. 

85 



ALMOND BUTTER. 

Use the paper-shell sweet almonds. After shelling, 
blanch and set them in oven until thoroly dry and hard, then 
grind to fine meal on a mill. If desired, they may be 
roasted, after blanching, in a moderate oven until a golden 
brown before grinding. Pack in air-tight glass jars. Very 
delicious for spreading on bread and for flavoring cereal 
dishes. 

BUTTERNUT AND BLACK WALNUT BUTTERS. 

All preparations from these nuts are better in a fresh 
state, as they do not keep long without becoming rancid. 
Grind after shelling; used for flavoring same as other nut 
butters. May be slightly browned in oven before grinding, 
if desired. When eating black walnuts and butternuts, they 
should be accompanied by a generous quantity of popcorn. 
This prevents the rich oils from lying too heavily on the 
stomach and possibly causing distress. 

PEANUTTA. 

Put a quantity of shelled peanuts into a slow oven for 
twenty minutes. Do not allow them to get brown. Take 
them out; when cold the brown skins may be easily rubbed 
off. Grind to a fine, smooth paste on a mill. Put three 
cupfuls of these ground peanuts into a saucepan ; add five 
cupfuls water and boil over slow fire, stirring frequently, 
for twenty minutes. Pour into porcelain dish and set in 
cool place. Very fine in soups, in cereals, symposia, or as 
butter to spread on bread. 

COCOANUT. 

Very valuable as a curative in digestive troubles. Should 
be combined with bananas, mangoes, persimmons and 
other tropical fruits. Will make an excellent butter and 
creams. 

NUT CREAMS. 

See article on Creams in Raw Food Department. 

86 



OILS. 

Animal oils should not be used because they pollute the 
blood and are indigestible. For this reason all foods mixed 
with them partake of the same conditions. The feeding of 
children with potatoes fried in animal oils is little short of 
crime, because the results are equal to those of poison. The 
same is true of meat, white yeast bread and narcotic bever- 
ages. Another objection to the use of animal oil for frying 
is its liability to become overheated. Burnt fat contains 
acrolein, an irritating and highly poisonous liquid devel- 
oped during burning. Vegetable oils will withstand a much 
higher- temperature before burning. Their use in this book 
is always intended, and there are many varieties on the 
market which are prepared especially for culinary purposes. 
They are much cheaper in the end than animal oils and far 
more wholesome. 

OLIVE OIL. 

For table use, salads and for use by invahds, olive oil 
only is recommended. The California oil is as cheap in 
price as the imported finer grades, and holds its own in 
competition. For invalids the olive oil should first be boiled 
or cut with boiling water. 

SALAD OIL. 

Most oil sold as salad oil is simply refined cottonseed oil, 
and for cooking purposes is equal to olive oil, even better, as 
it contains more heat and consequently serves for frying 
better than olive oil. 

COTTONSEED OIL. 

Because of its cheapness and wholesomeness this oil is 
quite in demand and most satisfactory for soups and baking 

87 



purposes. For making pies it should first be heated and 
beaten with an egg-beater or fork until foaming. Pastry 
will be light and very delicious, both in taste and flavor. 

SUNFLOWER SEED OIL. 

In European countries, also in some parts of the Orient, 
sunflower seed oil is used for cooking and baking, with sat- 
isfactory results. The flavor is unsurpassed and the nutri- 
tious value greater than olive oil. In countries where made 
it is as cheap as cottonseed oil, and is thus commonly used. 
For invalids suffering from pulmonary troubles, and throat 
and nasal affections, sunflower oil as daily food proves to be 
an indispensable agent. 

IMPROVED SOUP OIL. 

To give soups a decided flavor and the taste of soup 
stock, save all the oil which you have used for frying pur- 
poses, putting it in a separate can. That oil having been 
boiled and taken on flavors from the things fried or cooked 
in it will gradually change its flavor and prove excellent in 
the preparation of soups and salads. In liver complaints 
use oil sparingly and only when acid or sub-acid fruits are 
being used with the meal. 

OILS IN GENERAL. 

The question of purity of oil is not so much a scientific as 
a commercial one, although for medicinal purposes the oil 
must be just as prescribed. Thus in consumption and rheu- 
matism the patient must use none but the purest olive oil, 
while in troubles of liver and stomach, olive and cottonseed 
oil in equal proportion will prove more satisfactory. In 
some cases the olive oil should be used raw, while in others 
the oil should be boiled in water, and the water allowed to 
evaporate before the oil will prove of medicinal value. A 
little experimenting will soon teach the person as to the 
method to be employed in individual cases. 

When breaking away from meat diet a larger quantity 
of oil will at first be required. Be sure to mix oil with well 
prepared dishes only. After a time the system will require 
but little oil, as we shall crave nuts in their season. 

88 



PEANUT OIL. 

A peanut product. As a nut in preparations, particularly 
entrees of value due to the large amount of earth salts, but 
as an oil has to be used with discretion. The oil is some- 
what heavy and in stomach, liver, duodenum and kidney 
troubles must be discarded from our culinary department. 
Can be used to a great advantage among the physically 
strong. 

CORN OIL. 

Should be used during the cold season only and even then 
cautiously. For frying it may be used to advantage, but it 
cannot take the place of the usual cooking oils. 

SESAME OIL. 

May be used the same as cottonseed oil. Keeps well thru- 
out all the seasons of the year. Best for cooking purposes, 
but not for salads. 

COCOANUT OIL. 

Perhaps one of the sweetest oils of any. Excellent for 
dressings and for cooking purposes in general. It can be 
emulsified and a very palatable butter made from it, which 
is indispensable in cases of stomach, throat and catarrhal 
troubles. As skin food there is nothing better. Proves 
fattening when combined with vegetables and grains and 
works the opposite when used with fruits. An ideal nut 
food when used judiciously and with a raw-food diet 
largely. Like any other oil, it will lose its beneficial vir- 
tues if used continuously. Must be alternated with other 
oils in season. 



89 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 

Pickles should be eaten very sparingly, and, if possible, 
not at all when prepared with vinegar, as this condiment is 
deleterious to a healthful condition of the stomach. Cucum- 
ber pickles are quite harmful because they are difficult to 
digest when preserved in vinegar. 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Boil beets until soft. Peel and slice them, then pour on 
lemon juice while they are hot and set away to cool. 

PERSLAN PICKLE. 

Take one quart small green tomatoes, one quart small 
onions, one quart string beans, one cauliflower, one cupful 
nasturtium seed, two quarts pure cider vinegar, two pounds 
sugar, two small turmeric, two ounces mustard seed, one 
cupful olive oil, two ounces ground mustard. Parboil the 
onions, beans and cauliflower separately, put the nasturtium 
seed and green tomatoes in brine for twenty-four hours, 
heat vinegar, mix turmeric and mustard in a little cold vine- 
gar, add to hot vinegar, stirring with wooden spoon until 
thick, then add oil, sugar and mustard seed. Cook four 
minutes and pour over prepared vegetables. Pack in earth- 
enware or glass jars. 

INDIAN CHUTNEY. 

Pare, core and chop in small square pieces half a pound 
of sour apples, add one-half pound each of tomatoes, brown 
sugar, stoned raisins, one-fourth pound each onions and 
garlic, add two ounces each cayenne pepper and ground 
ginger, and one quart lemon juice. Mix all well together 
and put in closely covered jar. 

90 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

Scald, peel and core a peck of sound, ripe tomatoes. Mash 
as if for stewing. Season with one tablespoonful ground 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful cayenne pepper, one table- 
spoonful each of cloves, allspice and mace, and three large 
onions cut very fine ; salt to taste. Put all in porcelain-lined 
kettle to boil ; when tomatoes are thoroly cooked, rub them 
thru a sieve to get out the seeds, spice, etc. After straining 
return to kettle and boil until thick like cream. Set aside 
and when cold put into clean bottles, filling each to within 
one-half inch of the cork, then pouring in on top of each a 
teaspoonful of salad oil. The bottles should be kept in a 
cool, dry place, resting on their sides. 

PICCALILLI. 

Cut one peck of green tomatoes and six onions in thin 
slices, pack in layers in earthenware jar alternately with 
one teacupful of salt. Let stand over night ; in the morning 
pour ofif liquid that has formed, add four green peppers 
and chop all fine. Put the whole in a porcelain-lined kettle 
with one pint of pure cider vinegar (or lemon juice) and a 
tablespoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and white mustard* 
seed. Cook until soft and sweeten to taste. Pack in earth- 
enware or glass jars and set away in cool, dry place. 

CUCUMBER RELISH. 

Cut six ripe, yellow cucumbers lengthwise to about the 
thickness of half an inch and add six large, thin-sliced 
onions ; pack in layers in a porcelain-lined kettle alternately 
with one cupful of salt; let it stand over night; in the 
morning pour off the liquid. Now add one-half pint of 
pure apple cider and one-half pint of cider vinegar. Cook 
for fifteen minutes. Pack layer upon layer in an earthen- 
ware jar; sprinkle mustard seeds quite freely over each 
layer, and lastly pour the juice on. The vinegar may be 
sweetened with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and three bay 
leaves may be used in cooking, but should be removed be- 
fore mess is. put in jar, 

91 



PIES. 

There can be no objection to the eating of pies if they 
are well baked and their crusts do not contain animal oils. 
Doughy pies of ghostly hue, flavored with the extract of 
swine adipose tissue, can scarcely be expected to answer as 
an after-dinner relish for every hungry mortal. 

In the making of pie crust, use only vegetable oils, such 
as olive, cottonseed or cocoanut. To insure a fine, palatable 
crust, beat the oil before using until it will froth. Such 
oil will make a much finer crust and work more readily 
with flour than animal fats or butter, and it will require less 
oil. 

Clarified butter may be used, but it is considered objec- 
tionable on account of its indigestibility. Persons subject 
to liver and stomach disorders should not use it, nor any 
other animal oil, for that matter. Admixtures of animal 
fats and starch, such as pies, pastry, etc., should not be 
given to children. 

Always bake pies until both upper and lower crusts are 
a golden brown, otherwise they are indigestible and lie 
heavily on the stomach. The human stomach has developed 
beyond the digesting of raw starch, and attention to this 
fact will alleviate much suffering. 

Students and others in the schoolroom will sooner or 
later pay the penalty for the continued eating of noonday 
lunches composed of white bread and half-baked pie im- 
pregnated with animal fats. 

PIE CRUST. 

Sift together one quart of flour with one teaspoonful salt ; 
add two-thirds cupful well-beaten cocoanut, olive or cotton- 
seed oil, working it in thoroly ; then pour in gradually one 
cupful cold water. Knead into firm dough with least possi- 

92 



ble handling ; roll out on floured board to thin sheet and lay 
on graniteware pie plates. Before putting in the pie mix- 
ture, wet the crust dough when in the plates with beaten 
white of an egg to prevent juices soaking thru and making 
crust soggy. Bake pies in moderate oven, being careful to 
brown the lower as well as the upper crust. Enough for 
four pies. 

APPLE PIE. 

To make an apple pie that is a charm, it is necessary to 
use finely flavored and tart apples. Pare and core them, put 
them with a little water into a graniteware saucepan over 
the fire and boil until soft. Add sugar to taste and beat to 
smooth cream. Put generous quantity into each crust-lined 
plate, add a dash of ground cinnamon, put on upper crust 
and bake in brisk oven to golden brown. 

CRACKER PIE. 

Beat together the yolk of one tgg, one tablespoonful but- 
ter and two tablespoonfuls sugar. Add the dust of four 
finely rolled soda crackers and one cupful of milk. Boil it 
all until thick. Use white of egg for frothing. Bake in 
open crust. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Make custard of three well-beaten eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls white sugar and one pint sweet milk, using flavor to 
ta^te. Put in crust-lined plates and bake in slow oven. 
When done, take out and spread over with the beaten 
whites of eggs and sugar, return to oven and bake until 
slightly browned. Set aside to cool, then serve. 

DATE PIE. 

Soak one pound of dates over night, stew until they can 
be mashed thru a sieve. Mix with one quart of milk, three 
eggs, and a little salt. Bake with under crust only in mod- 
erate oven. This amount of filling will make three pies. 
Figs may be used in place of dates for variety, but they 
will need to be finely chopped. 
' 93 



FRUIT PIE. 

Select fruit desired, such as grapes, peaches, plums, pears, 
etc., stew them well done ; put between two crusts and bake 
to golden brown. Flavor with ground cinnamon or use ex- 
tract to suit taste. 

LEMON PIE. 

Soak one-half cupful cracker-dust for one hour in one 
cupful milk. Cream together one-half cupful powdered 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls cocoanut butter or olive oil, whip 
in the beaten white of one and yolks of three eggs, reserv- 
ing the remaining whites for a meringue. Add the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons, then the soaked cracker- 
dust. Pour all in crust-lined plate and bake in moderate 
oven to golden brown. Make a meringue of the whites 
beaten with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. When 
pie is done, spread over the meringue, return to oven long 
enough to harden. Serve cold. 

STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Put crust in plate, bake in oven until nicely browned. 
Take out and fill with fresh, ripe strawberries; sprinkle 
with finely powdered sugar, then spread over the entire pie 
the well-beaten whites of eggs and sugar. Put again in 
oven and bake until slightly browned. Use no top crust. 

MINCE PIE. 

Make a mock mince meat as follows: Take one pound 
of washed and dried currants, one pound seeded raisins, 
one pound finely cut citron, one pound sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, the juice and a little grated rind of two 
oranges, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, one 
quart grape juice, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful mace, one pint finely-chopped apples and one 
pint ground roasted peanuts ; mix well. This amount is 
sufficient for six good-sized pies. Put between two crusts 
and bake until nicely browned. 

94 



ORANGE PIE. 

Beat together the yolks of four eggs and eight table- 
spoonfuls sugar; add the juice and grated rind of two 
oranges and two-thirds cupful milk. Bake for thirty min- 
utes in an under crust. For meringue, beat whites of the 
four eggs with four tablespoonfuls powdered sugar to firm 
paste, spread over top of pie when done, then return to oven 
and bake until delicately browned. Serve cold. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Stew the pumpkin until soft, then press thru sieve. To 
one quart of pumpkin allow two quarts of milk and six eggs. 
Beat the eggs well and stir into the milk, adding gradually 
the sifted pumpkin. Add one teaspoonful cocoanut butter 
or olive oil, a little salt, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 
and sweeten to taste. Pour into crust-lined plates and bake 
in quick oven. When done, take out and spread over each 
pie a generous amount of well-beaten thick, sweet cream 
and powdered sugar ; return to oven until a delicate brown 
film has formed, then take out and set away to cool. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Pour boiling water over two teacupfuls chopped rhubarb, 
drain off the water after five minutes ; add one teacupful 
sugar, yolk of one egg, one teaspoonful cocoanut butter or 
olive oil, one tablespoonful flour, and three tablespoonfuls 
water. Put between two crusts and bake to light brown in a 
moderate oven. 

CHEESE PIE. 

Line a pie plate with plain pastry and fill with a custard 
made as follows : Rub two cakes of Neufchatel cheese 
thru a sieve, add two well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of 
flour and a little grated nutmeg ; stir, fill the crust and bake. 

- SORGHUM PIE. 

To four lightly-beaten eggs add one cupful sorghum mo- 
lasses, one-half cupful sugar, two teaspoonfuls cornstarch, 
a pinch of nutmeg. Set into a pan of hot water to thicken. 

95 



ORANGEADE PIE. 

Put one-quarter pound butter on the stove to melt slowly 
so the salt will settle to the bottom. Then pour off the 
butter and add one-half pound white sugar. Cream them 
together. Add the juice and finely grated rind of three 
oranges. Add six well-beaten eggs and two square 
crackers finely pulverized to give consistency. This will 
make filling for two pies. 

BUTTERMILK FILLING. 

One cupful buttermilk, one cupful sugar, the yolks of 
three well-beaten eggs, three tablespoonfuls starch. Flavor 
with lemon. 

PLAIN CTOTARD. 

One cupful water to one cupful sugar, one tablespoonful 
flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful oil. Beat it all thoroly 
and flavor. Bake in a quick oven. 

JELLY PIE. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs and add one cupful sugar 
creamed with one-half cupful butter. Mix thoroly and add 
the frothed whites of eggs. Now add one cupful tart jelly 
and two teaspoonfuls orange juice. Bake about three-quar- 
ters of an hour in open crust. 

FIG PIE. 

Soak one pound of cured figs, finely chopped, in one 
pint of sweet cream for two hours. Mash well and add 
another pint of cream, two tablespoonfuls of grated al- 
monds, three well-beaten eggs, and a good pinch of salt. 
Bake with undercrust only in moderate oven. Will prove 
an excellent laxative if used with bran bread and light 
cocoa-shell tea, sweetened with fresh cream. Grated co- 
coanut may be used instead of almonds for a change. 

96 



PUDDINGS AND CUSTARDS. 

It is, indeed, a trite but old saying that ''the proof of the 
pudding is in the eating." Too often the testimony is 
dearly bought, especially when the burden of proof rests on 
the digestive organs Hke unto a nightmare. Pure and fresh 
ingredients other than animal, placed in the hands of an in- 
telligent cook, may be resolved into "a midsummer-night's 
dream," with all the paraphernalia to match. The omis- 
sion of animal fats and corn or other starch, sago, tapioca 
and arrowroot, from puddings will be a decided move to- 
ward robbing them of their greater evils. 

APPLE COBBLER. 

Line a deep graniteware dish with pie-crust dough; fill 
dish with sliced tart apples, and sufficient sugar to sweeten 
to taste. Sprinkle over the top a small quantity of ground 
cinnamon and cloves. Use sufficient flour, into which has 
been sifted one-half teaspoonful baking powder, to make 
about the consistency of soft ginger-bread. Have bag in 
which it is to be boiled scrupulously clean and before using 
dip it in hot water and sprinkle with flour. Boil for three 
or four hours, suspending pudding in pot. Water should 
be boiling when pudding is put in, and must be continued 
for the entire cooking period. Serve with sauce to taste. 

Sliced peaches or other fruits may be substituted for ap- 
ples to give variety. 

CHESTNUT PUDDING. 

Boil chestnut meal with fruit sauce for ten minutes, then 
set away to cool. Serve garnished with sliced oranges in 
sauce dishes. 

97 



ORANGE CUSTARD. 

Beat well together yolks of six eggs and one-half cupful 
powdered sugar. Add two cupfuls orange juice and grated 
rind of one orange. Put into individual dishes and cook in 
steamer until solidified, then set away to cool. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cupful seedless raisins, one-half cupful finely- 
chopped citron peel, one-half cupful finely-chopped or 
ground almonds, three well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful 
cocoanut butter or olive oil, four cupfuls cracker-dust ; mix 
all together and add sufficient milk to make stiff paste. Put 
in pan and cook in steamer for two hours. Serve while hot 
with suitable sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One cupful milk, one cupful maple molasses, one pint 
well-chopped seeded raisins, one tablespoonful cocoanut 
butter, one teaspoonful each of finely-ground pine nuts, cin- 
namon and shredded lemon peel. Put on upper crust, cut- 
ting in slits to allow steam to escape, and set in moderate 
oven and bake to a golden brown. Serve with cream sauce 
to suit. 

APRICOT PUDDING. 

To two cupfuls flour add one level teaspoonful salt, finely 
powdered, three tablespoonfuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, four eggs beaten separately, and one cup of 
sweet milk. Beat the batter for several minutes until it 
aerates. Into well-oiled cups put a layer of batter, then 
a layer of sliced apricots, covered with a layer of batter. 
Steam for twenty minutes and serve with the following 
sauce : 

SAUCE. 

One cup sugar in one-half cup water, boiled for five 
minutes. Add juice of cooked or canned preserves, one 
rounded teaspoonful butter ; let it all come to a boil and add 
one tablespoonful cornstarch dissolved in cold water, with 
a pinch of salt. Let it come to a boil again and add the 
juice of half a lemon or more to suit taste, and serve. 

98 



PRUNE PUDDING. 

Soak one pound of prunes in hot water for twenty-five 
minutes, then boil them over a slow fire about three to four 
hours until their natural sweetness is restored, adding a 
stick of cinnamon. Wash them thru a sieve as soon as 
stones are removed. Add the whites of six well-beaten 
eggs. Bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Pour 
over it the juice of two sweet oranges and serve with 
whipped cream, flavored with vanilla. Served in the rind 
of oranges adds to the appearance. 

SULTANA PLUM PUDDING. 

Take a cupful each of raisins, dried apples, peaches, and 
one-half dozen each of figs, dates, and three fresh bananas. 
Boil this in a separate vessel for thirty minutes and add to 
prunes which have been boiling for two hours, of which 
you take two cupfuls, adding a stick of cinnamon. The 
prunes have to be pitted before mixed in with the rest. In 
a third vessel you boil two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a 
quart of water until clear. Now you mix it all together, 
adding three tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped or ground 
nuts to it, also a rind of lemon peel and citron. Allow the 
mixture to boil for one hour or more over a slow fire. Wet 
a mold and pour in if wanted cold ; just turn it out as you 
would a jelly. Serve upon a layer of flaked rice or tapioca 
soaked m orange or pineapple juice. Just before serving 
pour over each individual dish a little grape brandy and 
light a match to it. Serve with whipped cream flavored 
with lemon. 

AMBER PUDDING. 

^ Take one and a half pounds of apples. Cut up into small 
pieces, peelings and cores included. Put them into a stew 
pan, with a piece of lemon rind and a little juice, two 
ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, and stew until soft 
and mushy. Strain first thru colander and then a fine sieve. 
Stir in the yolks of three eggs. Line a pie dish with pie 
crust and pour the above consisten'cv upon it. Place into 
moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Whip the whites into a 
stiff froth, add some sugar and lemon flavoring. Pour over 

99 



the top. Sprinkle with castor sugar, return to oven to 
brown and decorate with candied fruits. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One-half pound sugar, one-half pound grated cocoanut, 
two tablespoonfuls cocoanut butter, one cupful cracker- 
dust, two eggs, one quart milk. Add milk to cracker-dust, 
then eggs, well beaten. Mix all together, flavor with vanilla 
and bake in graniteware dish. Serve with sauce to suit. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

To one quart milk add one cupful cracker-dust, three 
well-beaten eggs, one cupful sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla, 
two squares chocolate, melted. Mix well and put into gran- 
iteware dish and bake till nicely browned. Serve with or 
without sauce. 

NEW ENGLAND BREAD PUDDING. 

Into a three-quart pudding dish break five fresh eggs, 
beat until light; add one-fourth teaspoonful salt, two cup- 
fuls granulated sugar, two cupfuls well-browned bread 
crumbs, two quarts fresh milk, one tablespoonful cocoanut 
butter or olive oil, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon. Bake in 
moderate oven about forty-five minutes, or until no longer 
milky, testing frequently with a knife. Do not bake pud- 
ding too long, as too much baking will spoil it. When done, 
spread over top a thick layer of currant or other jelly and 
over that a meringue made by beating whites of two eggs 
with pulverized sugar ; replace in oven until delicately 
browned, then remove immediately. In all bread puddings, 
care should be taken to have crumbs well-browned, as the 
soft portion of bread becomes doughy when soaked in milk 
or other liquid and will have a raw taste. 

PLAIN APPLE CUSTARD. 

To each cupful of apple sauce, add two well-beaten eggs 
and one-half cupful fresh milk. Fill crust-lined plates, 
sprinkle on a little ground cinnamon, or add vanilla flavor- 
oring, cut strips and lay crosswise, then bake in oven. 

100 



COCOANUT CUSTARD. 

This variation is made by adding grated cocoanut to the 
custard before baking. Treat sauce as custard pie. If 
shredded cocoanut is used, it should be boiled in milk until 
soft. 

QUEEN CUSTARD. 

Mix with one quart fresh milk the well-beaten yolks of 
four eggs, two tablespoonfuls almond meal, one-half cup- 
ful sugar, one cupful finely-ground cracker-dust, a little 
grated orange or lemon peel, pinch of salt. Put in granite- 
ware dish and set in steam cooker for one hour. Beat 
whites of the four eggs with powdered sugar; spread over 
top of pudding when done, then set in oven until meringue 
is crisp. Take out and set aside ; serve when cold. 

NUT PUDDING. 

To one quart milk add two cupfuls cracker-dust, three 
well-beaten eggs, one cupful sugar, one-half cupful orange 
juice, three tablespoonfuls almond or peanut meal, pinch of 
salt. Mix all well together, put in graniteware pan and 
bake in moderate oven until nicely browned ; or may be put 
in steam cooker for one hour. Serve with sauce to taste. 

DRIED APPLE CUSTARD. 

Cook one pint of dried apples until tender and easily 
mashed thru sieve. Add one tablespoonful of clarified but- 
ter while fruit is warm. Add three well-beaten eggs, one 
pint of rich cream and the juice of one lemon and the grated 
rind of half a lemon. Line pie dish with pie crust. Pour 
the consistency over it and bake for twenty minutes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Take one dozen oranges and four lemons. Cut into 
halves. Soak in four quarts of water for twenty-four hours, 
then boil until transparent. When done take the fruit and 
cut into very fine shreds with a sharp knife. Return to the 
liquid. To every pint of the fruit add one pound of sugar. 
Bring it all to a boil again. Then boil quickly for twenty 

101 



minutes and then bottle. Remember that the fruit is simply 
to be covered with water, so that you will have to use judg- 
ment, as the quantity of water will depend upon the size of 
fruit and the amount of juice the fruit contains. Prepa- 
rations of this nature to be used upon special occasions only 
and not as food. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Boil two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a quart of water 
until clear; add while boiling a stick of cinnamon. Flavor 
with vanilla, and turn it out as you would a jelly. 

UNCOOKED PUDDING. 

One cupful each of rice flakes and toasted corn flakes, 
pour over it a mixture of one cupful beaten bananas and 
one-half cupful of grated apple; sprinkle with one-quarter 
teaspoonful of Saigon cinnamon. Serve in cups filled with 
whipped cream, garnished with candied or Maraschino 
cherries. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

In the juice of two oranges (the four halves of oranges 
save) soak two finely sliced bananas and two peaches for 
an hour, keeping the dish packed in ice. Whip sweet 
cream to a stiff consistency ; flavor with ten drops of vanilla 
and a dash of nutmeg. Keep on ice. Now cornstarch 
the insides of the four orange peels ; put in a little whipped 
cream, now a little fruit and whipped cream, and so on 
until the top is covered with whipped cream. 



102 



SALADS. 

Salads made without vinegar or strong spices are appe- 
tizing and quite wholesome. They should be eaten only in 
moderate quantities, and with nutritious nut and grain 
foods form a valuable adjunct to a well-balanced meal. A 
little study of their nature and qualities will enhance their 
value. In making salads do not mix fruits with vegetables. 
Nuts may be used with either fruits or vegetables. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Select smooth and large tomatoes, scald them, skin quickly 
and drop into cold water to chill. Slice them and put in 
layers alternately with the following: Chop finely a small 
quantity of onion, parsley, and cress, and mix with mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve on platter and garnish with lettuce 
leaves or cress. 

NUT-CELERY SALAD. 

Put one cupful shelled walnuts in saucepan, add two 
slices of onion and one-half teaspoonful salt; cover with 
boiling water and boil thirty minutes, then throw into cold 
water to blanch; dry on towel and rub off the thin skins. 
Mix nuts with two cupfuls sliced celery and add French 
dressing to suit the taste. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Cut into one-fourth-inch cubes one cold cooked beet, one 
cold cooked carrot, one cold cooked potato, and a few cold 
green string beans ; mix with mayonnaise dressing, and 
garnish with crisp leaves of one head lettuce. 

103 



SPINACH SALAD. 

Cut fine three cups of spinach and two onions, half a 
cupful of parsley. Mix all together. Add a pinch of 
thyme, olive oil to suit taste and lemon juice or Decimayon- 
naise. Serve with mushrooms and red rice. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

One cupful each of cabbage, celery, cauliflower, aspara- 
gus and tomatoes, two large onions, all finely chopped. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a pinch of celery seeds. 
Serve upon lettuce leaves with salad dressing. 

PLAIN POTATO SALAD. 

Cut six cold boiled potatoes into small cubes, add two fine- 
ly-cut raw onions well creamed in oil, one tablespoonful 
minced parsley, and sufficient French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing to suit. Put in large platter and garnish with two hard- 
boiled eggs cut into thin slices and the crisp leaves of one 
head lettuce. 

PLAIN EGG SALAD. 

Boil six eggs fifteen minutes. When eggs are done re- 
move the shells and cut in slices lengthwise. Arrange them 
on a platter so that one slice overlaps the other. While the 
eggs are still hot pour over Simplicity dressing and stand 
away in a cold place for one or two hours. Garnish with 
watercress or small leaves of head lettuce. 

EGG SALAD. 

Remove the shells from five or six hard-boiled eggs ; cut 
lengthwise. Take out the yolks, being careful not to break 
the whites ; mash the yolks to a paste, moistened with 
mayonnaise dressing ; then return to the whites, filling them 
to their utmost. Have ready a platter filled with little nests 
made of lettuce leaves, and place one of these halves in 
each nest. 

BEET SALAD. 

Slice and cut into dice enough cold beets to make a pint ; 
heap them in the center of a platter and surround with 
leaves of head lettuce. Make a Sauce Tartare as follows: 

104 



Chop four olives (pitted), one tablespoonful capers, one 
gherkin, very fine, and mix with one cup of mayonnaise 
dressing. Pour this over the beets and garnish with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs. 

MACEDONIAN SALAD. 

One boiled beet, one small onion, one root of celery, one 
boiled carrot, one-half cup boiled asparagus tops, two table- 
spoonfuls of cooked green peas, one dozen boiled string 
beans, one cup of mayonnaise dressing. Cut the beet, car- 
rot, beans and celery into small pieces ; chop the onion very 
fine ; mix all the vegetables carefully together, then add the 
mayonnaise and serve immediately. If the vegetables are 
properly prepared, this makes a delicious salad. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Boil a head of cauliflower; throw into cold water until 
wanted, then tear apart, dry on a soft towel, put in salad 
bowl, pour over a cupful of mayonnaise dressing; garnish 
with lettuce leaves and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve 
immediately. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Take good-sized apples and pare them carefully ; scoop 
out a good deal of the inside to make a cup. Then take 
what is scooped out of the apples, chop fine and mix with 
chopped nuts and rich mayonnaise dressing; refill the ap- 
ples and put them in a platter of lettuce leaves. 

ROYAL POTATO SALAD. 

Select potatoes of small size. Scrub them well in cold 
water. Put them in earthenware or graniteware pot. Cover 
with enough cold water to keep potatoes in water. Drop 
into the pot a small bunch of dried or green dill or caraway 
seed tied in a cheesecloth sack. Let the potatoes boil 
quickly. Keep pot well covered, gradually turning down 
fire as the water evaporates. As soon as potatoes are done 
pour off the water and return pot to stove, but uncovered, 
until all moisture steams away, taking care not to put over 
hot fire as potatoes must not be scorched. Let potatoes get 

105 



cold. To every three potatoes use one onion the size of one 
of the potatoes. Cut onions fine, and pour enough hot oHve 
oil over to cover them. Now peel the potatoes and cut into 
thin layers. Mix it all well. Use some green parsley, cut 
fine. Sprinkle with a little celery seed. Salt to taste. Cut 
fine a dill pickle to every fifth potato. Mix again. Now 
heat oil in one and vinegar in another vessel, using one 
tablespoonful of oil to every four potatoes and one tea- 
spoonful of boiled grape vinegar to every four potatoes. 
Pour the hot vinegar on salad first and then the oil. Flavor 
with lemon juice or serve with sliced lemon and grated raw 
beets. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Even quantities of sliced apples, sliced bananas, sliced 
pineapple and sliced oranges. The fruit, of course, is all 
peeled before slicing. Sprinkle with coarse-ground pine 
nuts and almonds. Serve with oilless mayonnaise dressing 
garnished with candied cherries. Do not use canned fruits 
for fruit salads. 

NASTURTIUM SALAD. 

Slice two hard-boiled eggs over a dish of shredded lettuce 
and dot with nasturtium flowers. Serve with French 
dressing. 

NUT-FRUIT SALAD. 

Put one pound blanched English walnuts in bowl ; peel 
and core four tart apples, then cut them in very small 
cubes. Mix with nuts, then add sufficient pine nut dressing 
to suit taste. May be served in individual dishes, or on 
large platter. Garnish with sliced navel orange if desired. 
The flavor will be greatly improved by the addition of fine- 
ly-chopped citron peel. 

SPINACH SALAD. 

Wash and pick over one peck spinach ; cook with one- 
half cupful water until tender. Drain and chop very fine ; 
then add the chopped whites of two hard-boiled eggs and 
sufficient French dressing to suit. Put on large platter and 
garnish with the crisp leaves of one head lettuce, also 
one hard-boiled egg cut into thin slices. 

106 



SANDWICHES. 



There is no end to the variety of sandwiches which are 
particularly suited for picnics, parties and traveling. A 
little attention and interest will soon develop an endless 
variety of compounds. 

FRUIT SANDWICH. 

Chop finely one-fourth pound each candied cherries, 
seeded raisins, and dates ; add one-fourth pound cocoanut 
two tablespoons grape juice, and juice of one-half orange: 
mix well. Spread almond butter on slices of bread, follow 
with fruit, then lay together. 

CHEESE SANDWICH. 

Blend yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with one tablespoon- 
ful cocoanut butter, olive oil or peanutta ; add three table- 
spoonfuls grated cream cheese and a pinch of salt. Spread 
on slices of bread, having first laid on lettuce, parsley, or 
watercress leaves. Neufchatel may be used in place of 
cream cheese if desired; pinon butter instead of peanutta. 

FIG SANDWICH. 

Put into double boiler one-half pound well-washed figs, 
one tablespoonful sugar, one-half lemon, and one cupful 
water. Cook until tender; strain figs and chop very fine, 
then add to juice. Take twelve slices bread ; dip quickly 
one side of each into cold water, place wet sides of two 
slices together and toast in moderate oven until outsides are 
a golden brown. Separate the slices and put between each 
one a thick layer of fig filling. Press together and lay away 
to get cold. 

RAISIN-NUT SANDWICH. 

Chop finely one-half pound each seeded layer raisins and 
English walnuts. Moisten with two tablespoonfuls grape 
juice, then spread on slices of bread and lay together. 

107 



OLIVE SANDWICH. 

Toast slices of bread as for ginger sandwiches. Spread 
on thin layer of peanutta, then Neufchatel cheese, and 
sprinkle with minced olives ; olives stuffed with pimentoes 
may be used if desired. 

GINGER SANDWICH. 

Take eight slices of bread; dip quickly one side of each 
in cold water, lay wet sides together and toast to a golden 
brown in a moderate oven. Separate slices and put be- 
tween them a filling composed of four lettuce leaves and 
one-half ounce of candied ginger cut into small slices, then 
place together. 

SAVORY SANDWICH. 

Mash finely with a wooden spoon one-half pound peeled 
tomatoes, rub into them the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs ; 
add pinch of sugar, dash of cayenne pepper, and chopped 
whites of two hard-boiled eggs. Put one tablespoonful of 
olive oil or cocoanut butter into a heated stewpan, pour in 
the mixture and when hot add one teaspoonful flour which 
has been worked to a cream with a little cold water, boil 
until thickened, then set away to cool. Put between slices 
of brown bread which have been spread with nut butter. 

DIVERS SANDWICH. 

Apple sauce with layer of whipped cream, or asparagus, 
spread between slices of bread, make very nice sandwiches. 
Also, sliced tomatoes laid between slices of bread which 
have been spread with French mustard and cream cheese, 
garnished with sorrel leaves or cress. Salsify, eggplant, or 
green tomato fritters garnished with horseradish and put 
between slices of bread make nice sandwiches. 

PEANUT SANDWICH. 

To one cupful peanut butter add one-half cupful salad 
dressing; mix thoroly and spread between slices of bread. 

108 



SOUPS. 

The first course of all dinners should be soup. They have 
an appetizing and refreshing effect upon the stomach, which 
is fittingly prepared for the work of digesting the more 
solid foods that are to follow. 

Soups should not be eaten while hot, as they soften the 
stomach and lay a foundation for neuralgic conditions of 
that organ. They should be allowed to cool to a moderate 
temperature. 

Neither beverages nor food should be taken into the 
stomach while hot. This organ is more sensitive to heat 
and cold than the mouth, and protests against abuse will be 
entered for presentation at some future time. 

Vegetable oils, such as cottonseed, olive, or cocoanut, 
added to soups will give finer flavors than animal oils ; and 
finely chopped or ground nuts greatly surpass ox tails and 
shin bones for making soup stocks. 

Catsup is one of the best condiments for use in flavoring 
soups, but black pepper and an excess of salt should be 
strictly avoided. 

An endless variety of soups will suggest itself as we learn 
to use our own judgment in preparing soups which are 
an art in themselves. The reason most people do not care 
for soups is because they never tasted the fine oil soups 
which give stay and stamina. 

SOUP FOR INVALIDS. 

Just after a siege of sickness, when abstinence from 
food proves the only successful means of conquering the 
disease, giving the body an opportunity to recuperate, soups 
will prove most beneficial. It should be remembered that 
it is not well to eat bread or crackers with any kind of soup 
unless the soup is merely a plain combination of oil and 

109 



water, in which case the bread should be cut into small 
squares, toasted, and the boiling water and oil poured 
over it. 

Invalids should use the broth of soups only for several 
days and later on use the stock. 

THE BROTH 

Of the soups as given in routine may be used after the 
fast has been broken, adhering to each broth for a day or 
two before resorting to another. 

BOUILLON SOUCI. 

Take one teaspoonful of oil to each cupful of water. Let 
it come to a boil and thereafter simmer for ten minutes. 
Salt it to taste after boiling. Take a clove of garlic and 
rub the warmed bowl or plate with it. Rub the garlic well 
into center of dish. Now cut some green parsley into dish. 
Pour the boiling or hot broth into plate and sip it as warm 
as you can take it, masticating the parsley well. 

PARSLEY SOUP. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of oil to three pints of water 
and boil it with a bunch of parsley. Let it all boil slowly 
for thirty or more minutes. In the meantime take one 
tablespoonful of oil and one-half tablespoonful white flour 
and put them into frying pan over a hot fire, allowing the 
mixture to brown, stirring it to keep it from burning. 

As soon as browned to a golden color, add hot water 
gradu'ally, stirring it continually until thinned to a liquid. 
Pour it into the broth, let it boil together for a minute and 
then serve. 

CONSOMME VEGETAL. 

Take two carrots of medium size, one turnip, one stalk 
leek, two onions, two spoonfuls rice and one spoonful bar- 
ley, four tablespoonfuls oil and two quarts water. Boil for 
forty-five minutes and then add water to suit, allowing it 
to simmer. Salt to taste. It will then be ready for use. 
Break an egg into your bowl, remove the germ and pour 
the hot broth of your soup over the egg. As soon as you 

110 



see the white of the egg cooked, stir up the yolk and let it 
mix with the broth. If you care to you can sprinkle a little 
green parsley over the broth. 

CREAM OF BEANS. 

Boil until soft and mushy one-half package of American 
hulled beans. Mash thru a sieve and add a quart of milk, 
one well-beaten egg, two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, dash 
of salt and cayenne pepper. Return to the fire and let it 
all come to a boil. If a firm soup is desired retain one 
tablespoonful of the olive oil and cream it with one heaping 
dessertspoonful of flour by browning it in a saucepan and 
smoothing it with part of the soup, then pouring it all to- 
gether, allowing it all to boil up together. 

CRACKED BARLEY SOUP. 

Boil two tablespoonfuls cracked barley in two quarts 
water for three hours. Stir in slowly one pint milk, one 
well-beaten egg and one teaspoonful salt. 

RICE SOUP. 

Boil one tablespoonful cleaned rice in one quart watei 
for one hour; add the juice of two boiled tomatoes, one 
tablespoonful each of olive oil and peanutta ; one teaspoon- 
ful salt. Boil a few minutes, then flavor with two table- 
spoonfuls tomato catsup. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Chop finely one onion, four green beans, one small ox- 
heart carrot, one-half green pepper, one stick celery, or 
pinch of celery seed, one tomato, sprig parsley, small 
parsnip, sprig cauliflower, one tablespoonful oil; boil one 
hour in two quarts water. Add one teaspoonful salt and 
one cupful milk. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Take five stalks celery, with leaves, cut fine and boil for 
ten minutes in one quart water; pour off water and add 
two quarts fresh water, one clove garlic, one tablespoonful 
olive oil, one tablespoonful nut butter; boil two hours, then 

111 



add three cupfuls milk and one cupful milk thickened with 
a little flour ; boil again for a few minutes, then serve. 

RICE-MACARONI SOUP. 

Boil one tablespoonful rice, one onion, one cupful broken 
macaroni, and one tablespoonful oil in two quarts water 
for forty-five minutes. Add one teaspoonful salt and two 
tablespoonfuls finely-chopped green parsley and allow to 
boil a few minutes longer. Add two tablespoonfuls catsup 
or pinon butter for flavoring, if desired. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Boil one quart finely chopped asparagus in one quart 
water for ten minutes ; pour off water, put on two quarts 
fresh water and boil twenty minutes ; strain out asparagus, 
and mash thru colander, then return again to water from 
which it was taken. Cream one tablespoonful flour with 
one tablespoonful oil, stir into one pint heated milk and 
boil a few minutes ; salt to taste and pour into asparagus. 
Let all come to a boil and pour over toasted bread cut into 
dice, or oyster crackers, and garnish with parsley. 

GRAIN- VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Put one tablespoonful each of rice, chopped green corn, 
and cracked barley into soup pot ; pour on one quart water 
and boil one hour. Chop fine two sticks celery, one onion, 
turnip, carrot and sweet potato ; add to soup, together with 
one quart water. Boil for two hours over slow fire, then 
add one quart boiling water. Take one cupful flour, one- 
half teaspoonful baking powder ; mix well and rub with one 
tablespoonful nut butter or oil and one well-beaten egg. 
Roll into small balls, drop into soup and boil for thirty 
minutes. About five minutes before taking off fire add two 
teaspoonfuls each of parsley, peanut butter, peanutta and 
one teaspoonful each of thyme and salt. 

PEA SOUP. 

Put one quart green peas and one onion into a soup 
pot; pour on sufficient water to cover and boil forty-five 

112 



minutes. Mash thru colander and add one pint water. 
Cook one tablespoonful flour in two tablespoonfuls oil until 
a very light brown. Add one cupful each of milk and 
cream and one teaspoonful salt. Pour all into soup, boil a 
few minutes and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Boil four or five tomatoes for one hour in sufficient water 
to cover; strain thru colander, put juice again on the 
fire and add one-half cupful milk which has been thick- 
ened by the addition of a little flour. Boil until slightly 
thickened, adding one quart of milk slowly after boiling. 
Serve with dry toast. May be flavored with a little parsley, 
onion or celery. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak over night one teacupful beans in sufficient water 
to cover. Pour off the water, then add one quart fresh 
water and boil for one-half hour. Pour off this water and 
again add two quarts boiling water and boil for six hours. 
Mash thru colander, then add one-half pint well-cooked 
tomatoes, a sprig of parsley and one tablespoonful oil ; cook 
one-half hour longer. Add one pint milk and serve. 

BARLEYBON. 

Put one-half cupful pearl barley in two quarts water ; add 
two sticks celery and one tablespoonful olive oil ; boil three 
hours over slow fire. Then add one whole onion, one cup- 
ful strained tomato juice, and one tablespoonful nut butter. 
Continue boiling for forty-five minutes. Brown in a frying 
pan one tablespoonful flour mixed with one tablespoonful 
oil ; add two cupfuls water, one teaspoonful salt. Pour this 
into soup and boil for a few minutes. Remove onion 
and celery before serving. A good dish all the year around. 

VEGETABLE STEW. 

One bunch each of carrots, beets and onions, two quarts 
of new potatoes, five tomatoes, one cup of oil, one-half tea- 

113 



spoonful each of salt and celery seeds, a dash of red pepper 
covered with one quart of water and boiled slowly for one 
hour. 

SWEET POTATO SOUP. 

Boil six small or four medium-sized sweet potatoes ; when 
done, peel and mash thru a sieve. Dissolve two table- 
spoonfuls of finely-ground pine nuts in one quart of hot 
water; add one small onion grated, one teaspoonful salt, 
one teaspoonful celery seed and boil for ten minutes, 
while the sweet potatoes are being peeled and prepared. 
Strain the soup and mix in the sweet potatoes ; now return 
to the fire and add two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a dash of 
cayenne pepper, and let boil a few minutes. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Take a can of tomatoes and add a bruised bay leaf, a 
blade of mace, a sprig of parsley, and let them stew for fif- 
teen minutes. Put a quart of milk on to boil in a double 
boiler, and when boiling add two tablespoonfuls of flour 
mixed with two tablespoonfuls olive oil, and stir constantly 
until it thickens. Now press the tomatoes thru a sieve and 
if ready to use the soup, add a teaspoonful of sugar and one- 
fourth teaspoonful baking soda to the tomatoes, and then 
the boiling milk; stir and serve immediately. It must not 
go on the fire after mixing the milk with the tomatoes, or 
it will separate. If you are not ready, let them stand on the 
fire separately and mix them when wanted. 

CREAM OF CHEESE SOUP. 

Put into a quart of milk, a slice of onion, a slice of carrot, 
a blade of mace and boil in a double boiler. Rub two table- 
spoonfuls of flour into four tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; re- 
move the vegetables and mace from the milk after it be- 
gins to boil and add the flour and oil and stir until it thick- 
ens. Now add three heaping tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese and stir three minutes ; add the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, salt and cayenne pepper to taste and 
serve at once. This soup cannot be heated over. 

114 



ENTREES, 

OR 

SYMPOSU FULL DINNER DISHES. 

An effort has been made in this department to give suit- 
able dishes designed to take the place of meats. In many 
instances when the housewife has resolved to adopt a new 
regime, one which leads to a betterment of mental and 
physical conditions, and one which excludes all animal 
foods whatsoever from the daily menu, she is at a loss to 
know just what to select when supplying the family table. 
The task need no longer be difficult, for in the preparation 
of these dishes others of similar nature will suggest them- 
selves, and the various items may be procured accordingly. 
To obtain the best results, there is only one special rule to 
be observed, — do not use fruits with vegetables. 

Vegetables should be combined with grains and nuts; 
fruits with grains and nuts ; but not vegetables with fruits. 

Onions and garlic may be combined with apples (sour 
apples) without detracting from the beneficial qualities of 
either. 

Do not use raw flour in making symposia ; brown it in a 
moderate oven, and stir occasionally to prevent burning. 

When using bread, it should always be cut in slices and 
toasted to a golden brown in a moderate oven. It is neces- 
sary to procure a mill, or small grinder, with which to grind 
the toasted bread, crackers, shredded-wheat biscuits, nuts, 
grains, etc., for use in these recipes. These mills are sold 
by our societies for $4, and are indispensable to all well- 
regulated kitchens. It is well when purchasing nuts to 
select those which have been shelled ; they are cheaper in 
the end. They have been put thru special machines which 

115 



take out the kernels in a comparatively unbroken condition ; 
besides there is a great saving of time. The nuts should be 
fresh, otherwise they will be rancid and unfit to eat. 

Use graniteware, porcelain, or aluminum dishes for bak- 
ing purposes. Tin is easily oxidized and often poisons the 
food. 

To facilitate a variation in symposia, we give the follow- 
ing formulae, the use of which will satisfy the most fastidi- 
ous taste. Select for use only strictly fresh articles. 

Green fruits and vegetables which have become wilted 
after being picked, have lost their life-giving properties and 
are so much dead matter. They should be eaten as soon as 
possible after being picked, observing particularly that all 
are free from blemishes, and that there are no evidences of 
decay. As soon as disintegration sets in, the entire fruit 
or vegetable, as the case may be, has become permeated 
with effete matter that produces like conditions in every- 
thing with which it comes in contact. 

FORMULA NO. 1 

(Combining Fruit, Nuts, and Cereals.) 

One cupful cereals ; choice may be made of cracker-dust, 
finely-ground toasted bread crumbs or browned flour. 
Three cupfuls finely-chopped fruit ; choice may be made of 
any fruit separate, or they may be mixed. One cupful 
nuts ; nut butters may be used, or finely-chopped or ground 
kernels of any nuts desired. Two well-beaten eggs. One 
cupful liquid; milk, water, or fruit juices may be chosen. 
One teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful spices or extracts, to 
taste. Bake for forty-five minutes. 

FORMULA NO. 2 

(Combining Vegetables, Nuts, and Cereals.) 

One cupful cereals. Three cupfuls finely-chopped and 
boiled vegetables ; selection should be judiciously made, 
avoiding as much as possible the use of cabbage and po- 
tatoes. (See list of vegetables, following this department, 
for those which are most desirable.) One cupful nuts. 

116 



One tablespoonful savory herbs. Two well-beaten eggs. 
On® (in some cases two) cupfuls liquid. One teaspoonful 
salt. A little spice, except black pepper, to suit taste; 
bay leaves, celery seeds, and green parsley will give a de- 
cided taste. Catsup will give additional flavor. Bake 
one hour. 

CHESTNUT. 

One pound of boiled Italian chestnuts, one pound whole- 
wheat bread :crumbs, toasted and ground fine ; one pint 
boiled celery stalks, one pound fresh or one-half can to- 
matoes, one cupful each of green parsley and celery leaves, 
chopped fine; two good-sized raw onions, chopped; just 
a little marjoram and thyme finely ground, enough to give 
it all a distant flavor; finely chopped fresh red pepper, 
about one tablespoonful ; two tablespoonfuls olive oil, heap- 
ing teaspoonful salt^ two or more eggs. Stir and mix 
it well. If consistency should be stiff add lukewarm 
water or eggs. Make into a loaf and set in a medium 
heated oven for an hour or until done. Occasionally 
moisten the top with a spoonful or more of hot water. 
Serve with nut tomato sauce made from one pound or half 
a can of tomatoes, three bay leaves, one blade of mace, 
pinch cayenne pepper, one tablespoonful ground raw pea- 
nuts, one small onion and one cupful water. Boil it for 
fifteen minutes over a quick fire, adding hot water fre- 
quently as needed. Thicken with browned whole-wheat 
flour. 

TAHARANI. 

One tablespoonful each of blanched almonds, pine nuts, 
pecans and walnuts ; one cupful finely-ground dried bread 
or crumbs, one finely-chopped onion, a pinch of powdered 
sage, a pinch of finely-ground celery seeds, one tablespoon- 
ful of finely-chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, two 
eggs and one cup of cream. Mix ingredients in routine as 
given and keep stirring and beating. Consistency to be 
medium, not stiff. Put in oiled earthenware dish. Bake 
for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with cream pea 
sauce and fresh peppermint leaves. 

117 



NATURALIA. 

One cupful malted barley, one cupful ground raw pea- 
nuts, two tablespoonfuls flour, one tablespoonful oil, one 
well-beaten egg, salt to taste ; enough water to make it a 
light consistency. Bake for three-quarters of an hour in 
well-oiled gem pans. Apples may be added to the con- 
sistency, but no raisins. Eaten every other day will pro- 
mote natural action. 

PRUNATUNA. 

One cupful fresh shelled peanuts, boiled in a quart of 
water for fifteen minutes, one cupful raw prunes, one each 
of dates and figs, one cupful malted J^arley, two tablespoon- 
fuls oatmeal, a good pinch of cinnamon, one tablespoonful 
oil. Stir quickly. If thick, add a little water. Bake in 
well-oiled pan. Do not use any drink with this dish. Par- 
ticularly valuable for dyspeptics. 

URANA. 

Boil in separate vessels, over a quick fire, one cupful 
each of rice and barley in a quart of water containing two 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil. When well done and water 
boiled down about two-thirds, let it cool a little, adding 
two medium-sized onions, finely chopped, a dash of thyme 
and a pinch or two of salt. Add two eggs, one cupful 
bread crumbs and two tablespoonfuls flour. Make little 
loaves, rolled in crumbs. Set into well-oiled pan and bake 
for half an hour. 

SPAMUTTA. 

Grate four cupfuls raw carrots, two cupfuls parsnips, 
one cupful each of turnips and potatoes. Add one and a 
half cupfuls browned flour, one cupful coarsely-ground 
raw peanuts. Flavor with one cupful green parsley and 
celery leaves, finely chopped, one-half teaspoonful crushed 
celery seeds, one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls oil, 
the yolks and whites of two separately beaten eggs. Put 
in granite pan, well oiled. Bake for three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve with mint sauce or plain mint and green peas. 

118 



DE NOEX. 

Take two tablespoonfuls peanuts, two tablespoonfuls wal- 
nuts, one tablespoonful Brazil nuts, one tablespoonful 
pecans; chop all fine and add one cupful finely-ground 
toasted bread crumbs, one cupful sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful nut butter creamed in a little milk, two well- 
beaten eggs, a pinch of chopped sage and thyme. Mix 
thoroly, put into oiled dish and bake twenty minutes in 
moderate oven. Serve garnished with green parsley. 

DE CAROTTE. 

Boil for one hour one cupful carrots, one-half cupful 
parsnips, and two cupfuls celery, all finely chopped. Take 
three tablespoonfuls browned flour and boil in one and 
one-half cupfuls hot water until thick. Mix with the 
boiled vegetables, then add one cupful finely-ground onions, 
two cupfuls flaked cereals, or cracker-dust, two well- 
beaten eggs, one tablespoonful salt. Mix thoroly, then put 
into well-oiled dish and bake in moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

DE POIS EN COSSE. 

Mash fine one cupful boiled green peas (if canned see 
that they have been boiled until soft), add one-half cupful 
strained stewed tomatoes, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls nut 
butter rubbed smooth in a little hot water, one cupful finely- 
ground crackers (shredded wheat or browned bread crumbs 
may be used), one-half cupful onion juice, one-half tea- 
spoonful each marjoram, thyme and salt; mix well and put 
into oiled dish and bake twenty minutes. Serve with 
chopped parsley. 

DE VEGETAL. 

Take equal quantities each of sweet potatoes, squash, 
tom^atoes and parsnips to make two cupfuls ; boil for forty- 
five minutes and mash all fine. Brown one cupful flour in 
moderate oven, stirring occasionally to prevent burning, 
then mix with one cupful water or milk. Add to the vege- 
tables, mix, well and roll up in a lump. Make a dressing as 

119 



follows : Chop one onion fine and cook slowly in pan v/ith 
two tablespoonfuls oil, or cocoanut butter; add one tea- 
spoonful each of finely-chopped thyme and marjoram, two 
tablespoonfuls lemon juice, one-half cupful toasted bread 
crumbs, one teaspoonful salt, and one cupful water or milk. 
Spread out the "meat," inclose the dressing, roll up and 
oil all over; put into oiled dish and bake thirty minutes in 
moderate oven. Make a gravy with a little browned flour, 
water and a teaspoonful nut butter. 

A LA SULTANA. 

Boil one cupful brov/ned flour in two cupfuls water until 
thick and creamy, stirring constantly to prevent burning. 
Add one cupful each of finely-chopped apples and pears, 
two tablespoonfuls ground walnuts, one cupful cracker- 
dust, three tablespoonfuls of oil, one-half teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, two well-beaten eggs, one teaspoonful salt, and 
dash of cayenne pepper. Mix thoroly, put into well- 
oiled dish and bake in slow oven for thirty minutes. 

A LA SIMPLE. 

Cut one-fourth of a loaf of rye bread into slices ; toast 
in a moderate oven to a golden brown, after which soak in 
water until soft; press out the water, then add two cup- 
fuls ground raw peanuts, two cupfuls chopped onions, one 
cupful chopped celery, two tablespoonfuls parsley, one 
teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls oil, dash of cayenne 
pepper. Mix thoroly and put into a well-oiled granite- 
ware dish. Press down well, then take from the center 
sufficient to make an opening large enough to hold the fol- 
lowing filling: One-half cupful peanut butter, one-half 
cupful Neufchatel cheese, and one-half cupful milk. Fill 
opening, then lay on top the removed portion. Put in mod- 
erate oven and bake one-half hour. Serve with catsup. 

A LA FAMILLE. 

Put two tablespoonfuls browned flour into one and one- 
half cupfuls milk and boil until a smooth paste, stirring 
constantly. Add two cupfuls each peanutta, finely-chopped 

120 



apples, and finely-ground toasted bread crumbs, three table- 
spoonfuls oil, two well-beaten eggs, two teaspoonfuls salt, 
and a dash of cayenne pepper. Mix thoroly, and put 
into oiled dish and bake thirty minutes in moderate oven. 
Serve with sauce. 

PEAS ROAST. 

Take a pound of dried green split peas and boil until 
mushy. Place a medium-sized whole onion (peeled) in 
the pot with the peas and boil with them for flavoring. If 
water boils away before peas are done, add some more. 
Use no salt, as salt hardens the water and takes longer to 
cook the peas. When done remove the onion and mash 
peas thru a sieve ; now add salt to taste, two eggs beaten 
light; stir well and put into oiled pan (small deep bread tin 
is best) and bake fifteen to twenty minutes. When done 
turn out the loaf on a platter and turn over it tomato or 
mushroom sauce. Garnish with parsley or mint. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

One-half pound macaroni, one cupful of milk, three 
tablespoonfuls grated cheese, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
whole-wheat flour, two tablespoonfuls olive oil, salt and 
cayenne pepper to taste. First break the macaroni into bits 
of about one inch long and boil rapidly for twenty minutes 
in slightly salted water. When done, put in colander to 
drain. Put the milk on to boil and stir into it the flour 
mixed smooth with the olive oil and stir continually until 
it thickens ; then add a dash or two of cayenne pepper, the 
cheese and macaroni, and lastly the two beaten eggs. Cook 
one minute longer and turn into an oiled baking dish to 
brown in the oven. Serve in same dish. 

MACARONI-CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

The above recipe may be used for croquettes. Instead of 
turning into baking dish when done, turn into a square pan 
and set away to cool. When cold cut in slices ; dip first in 
egg, then in cracker-dust, and fry in oil until brown. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

121 



SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATOES. 

One-half pound spaghetti, one can tomatoes, two table- 
spoonfuls olive oil, two cloves of garlic, two tablespoonfuls 
of whole-wheat flour and salt to taste. Take spaghetti in 
long sticks and put ends into boiling salted v/ater. As they 
soften, bend and coil in the water without breaking. Boil 
rapidly for twenty minutes. When done, put into a col- 
ander to drain and set the colander in a pan of cold water 
for ten minutes. This bleaches the spaghetti and makes it 
white. Open Can of tomatoes ; put on to boil with the 
garlic cut into small bits. Dissolve the flour in the oil and 
add to the tomatoes when boiling and stir until thickened. 
Now oil a covered earthenware baking dish, put spaghetti 
with tomatoes thoroly mixed thru it into the dish and 
bake in oven for fifteen minutes. This can be made in the 
morning and put away until evening, or twenty minutes 
before serving the dinner ; then set it in oven to bake fifteen 
to twenty minutes. Serve with bananas fried in olive oil 
after first being dipped in egg and cornmeal, or thin slices 
of Oriental bread spread with nut butter and Swiss cheese 
laid over the nut butter. 

SPAGHETTI ITALIENNE. 

Bring a high kettle of water containing two gallons to 
the boiling point and without breaking set in on ends one 
pound of solid gluten spaghetti of the fine kind and allow 
to boil quickly for fifteen minutes, gradually pushing the 
upper ends under water as the lower descends into the pot 
by virtue of softness. Now add one tablespoonful of salt 
and one clove of garlic, allowing to boil for five minutes 
longer; run thru colander and serve on large platter, 
sprinkling it all with a thin layer of Roman cheese and 
pouring a sauce over it all quite thickly, made as follows: 

SPAGHETTI WITH BROWNED SAUCE. 

See recipe for Browned Sauce and prepare. As soon as 
sauce is smooth add the spaghetti as prepared in the pre- 
ceding recipe and simmer until thoroughly hot. Serve on 

122 



large platter and cover top with grated Parmesan cheese. 
Baked sweet potatoes go nicely with this dish. 

SPAGHETTI SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of tomato paste or half a can of 
Campbell's thick soup or two large fresh tomatoes, and one 
to two good-sized finely chopped onions cooked down to a 
thick paste, well strained. Bring to a boil; add two 
cloves of garlic, two pepper corns, two cloves, three 
bay leaves. While simmering take two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, add one tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley and 
fry quickly ; when done, add to the above, strain thru sieve 
and pour upon platter with spaghetti. This sauce should 
be made while spaghetti is cooking, so as to serve it all hot. 

SPANISH SPAGHETTI. 

Put three peppers in oven until slightly brown. Cover 
tightly for five minutes after removing from oven. Now 
remove seeds and skins, chop fine; add one pint each of 
tomatoes and water, one tablespoonful of oil, one-half cup 
of minced onions, one-fourth pound of spaghetti. Boil for 
twenty to thirty minutes. Add finely scissored parsley 
when serving. Garnish with shredded lettuce and water- 
cress. 

STUFFED MANGOES OR BELL PEPPERS. 

Two cups of finely-ground toasted bread, one cup of to- 
matoes, one small finely chopped onion, one cup of olives, 
salt to taste, one tablespoonful of oil. Remove seeds from 
mangoes by cutting ofif the stem ends. Then stuff with 
above filling, put into pan to bake for thirty minutes. Add 
water to bottom of pan to keep from burning. For a 
change, add two eggs or grated cheese, string beans, peas, 
boiled rice, barley or any vegetable one may have left over 
from the previous meal. Should be served on shredded 
lettuce with finely scissored parsley, scorched in butter, 
poured over it. Mashed potatoes or turnips, squash and 
toast go well with them. 

123 



PEANUT FRUIT. 

Boil in two cupfuls milk two cupfuls ground raw pea- 
nuts; add one cupful finely-chopped celery, one-half cup- 
ful seeded raisins or figs, one teaspoonful sweet marjoram, 
two teaspoonfuls oil, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoon- 
ful bread crumbs, two well-beaten eggs ; mix well. Shape 
into small balls and dip into following batter: Two table- 
spoonfuls flour, one egg, pinch of salt, mix well with one 
cupful milk. Fry in graniteware saucepan to golden brown 
in very hot oil, and serve with or without dressing. Mashed 
potatoes or lyonnaise go best v/ith this dish. 

SPANISH RICE. 

Into one-quarter cup of hot olive or cooking oil stir one 
cup of dry rice; let it turn brown and add one cup of 
finely-cut onions, one to three threaded green peppers with 
seeds removed, two teaspoonfuls of salt. Let fry until 
onions are done. Now add one quart each of tomatoes 
and water, bring to boiling point and serve. 

NOODLES AND CHEESE. 

Take one-quarter pound of Italian egg noodles and boil 
for about fifteen minutes from the time of dropping them 
into the boiling water. If you wish, you can make your 
own noodles by taking three tablespoonfuls of flour and two 
well-beaten eggs ; work into dough. Roll out on a board, 
adding flour gradually until it all rolls into a stiff ball. 
Now cut up into four pieces. Take a rolling-pin and roll 
out into sheets. Allow to dry for an hour. Cut into strips 
about the width of an inch. Put layer upon layer and take 
a sharp knife, cutting the layers into threads. Spread 
them out on paper and when ready for use drop into boil- 
ing water little by little. Requires fifteen or more minutes, 
according to thickness of the noodles. When done, drain 
off the water thru a colander and pour cold water over 
the noodles, which will separate them and give them 
consistency as well as color. Now take one cup of milk and 
put into a double boiler, add two cupfuls of grated rich 
American cheese, dash of cayenne pepper and salt. As 
soon as cheese is melted add the yolks of two well beaten 

124 



eggs. Put noodles into a well-oiled pan or baking dish; 
pour the mixture over them and bake for ten to fifteen 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve in baking dish with 
green peas or asparagus and a little parsley. 

ROYAL MACARONI. 

Break up one-half pound of macaroni into three-inch 
lengths and cook in the usual way. When done oil a deep 
baking dish. Put in a layer of macaroni and sprinkle with 
Herkimer cheese, a layer of seeded tomatoes, a layer of 
macaroni and a layer of French mushrooms, on top of these 
a layer of macaroni and on top of it all a good layer of 
cheese. Over this spread tomato sauce, or if preferred 
cream sauce may be used instead. Put into moderate oven 
for at least half an hour. 

CHEESE RAMEKINS. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of cracker crumbs with one-half 
cup of milk on to boil. Stir until smooth; then add four 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, two tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil and stir over the fire for one minute. Take off, add 
one-fourth teaspoonful dry mustard, cayenne and salt to 
taste, and the yolks of two eggs. Beat the whites of three 
eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in carefully. Pour into 
an oiled baking dish and bake for ten minutes in a quick 
oven. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Toast carefully square slices of salt-rising bread with 
crusts removed. While hot, butter them and arrange on a 
dish or platter and place in the oven to keep warm, while 
you make the rarebit. Put oixC-half cup of milk in double 
boiler and when boiling hot add two cupfuls of rich Amer- 
ican grated cheese, stirring continuously until the cheese is 
melted. Have ready one-half teaspoonful of dry mustard 
mixed with a little salt and two dashes of cayenne. Stir 
this into the milk and cheese and add two well-beaten eggs. 
Pour over the toasted bread and serve at once. If the rare- 
bit is tough and stringy, it is the fault of the cheese not 
being rich enough to melt. 

125 



INDIAN CURRY. 

Slice four onions into a frying pan, add enough oil to fry 
them light brown ; now add two tablespoonfuls of butter 
or more, four tablespoonfuls of curry, a little more oil and 
cook with the onions for ten minutes. Mix with one can of 
kidney beans, one cupful of strained tomatoes, two table- 
spoonfuls of seeded raisins, one tablespoonful of chutney, 
a little water if needed, and allow to boil slowly for two 
hours. Creal some rice quickly for twenty minutes, so 
that kernel drops from kernel. Place by the spoonfuls 
around the platter and pour the curry in the center with 
three-cornered pieces of white bread toast to decorate, and 
serve hot. Mushrooms with mushroom sauce will make a 
nice meal. To be used cautiously and only in cold weather 
and where threatened with mahgnant troubles. Considered 
a festival dish. 

MIDNIGHT DISH. 

Salt-raised bread, shaped a la Vienna ; sun-dry it ; then 
cut into slices about one-quarter of an inch thick. Toast in 
oven on one side only. Have ready finely-ground poppy 
seeds mixed equally with sugar (brown preferable) ; to 
every cup of poppy and sugar add one-half teaspoonful of 
cinnamon. Have ready some nut cream containing pine 
nuts and filberts thinned with orange juice. Now put a 
layer of the toast into an extra deep platter. Pour over it 
some hot sweet cream, then a layer of poppy seeds, again a 
little sweet cream, now the thick nut cream, and over this a 
layer of toast, proceeding as at first, finishing with the nut 
cream. Serve upon individual dishes garnished with bits of 
candied fruits, pouring over it Dutch frosting. Serve 
Arabian coffee later on. A holiday dish only. 

PLAIN DISH. 

One cupful each of cracker-dust, raw onion, chopped 
apple, a dash each of thyme, sage and salt, tablespoonful 
catsup, tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, egg and three 
tablespoonfuls cream. Roll in cracker-dust into six balls 
and fry in hot oil. 

126 



VEGETABLES. 

The chemical analysis of diverse vegetables is too well 
known to all students of the vital question, namely, the 
Problem of Perfect Life, to repeatedly dwell upon it here. 
Furthermore, the analysis of foods from a chemical stand- 
point alone does not suffice where one concerned in the 
use of food has not learned to make hi3 selection suitable 
to his nature. First of all, one must remember that 
vegetables are to the consumer of value only during the 
vegetable season, confined to the local market, and of 
medicinal value out of season to the invalid only. 

Vegetables are not in their entirety foodstuffs; they are 
in accordance to kind and quality of hydrogen, oxygen, 
phosphorus, sulphur, iron, nitrogen and many other in- 
gredients nutritious only when combined with breadstuffs, 
grains or cereals. Vegetables are, owing to their greater 
quantity of liquids or hydrogen and minerals, classed as 
eliminators, and are of inestimable value and necessity in a 
well-balanced meal to furnish flushing and waste matter for 
the more solid grain, nut and dairy foods, besides furnishing 
valuable salts and acids of micdicinal value, stimulating the 
diverse digestive organs. 

Vegetables which ripen above the ground are preferable 
as food for man, as they contain a greater per cent of or- 
ganized salts and acids, as well as nutritious elements, sus- 
taining proper organic action. They should be served with 
trimmings of fresh parsley, mint and sage. 

Vegetables which ripen on the ground are valuable as to 
their toning qualities and thus splendid eliminators ; when 
used with aromatic seeds in small quantities they help to ex- 
pel foreign organisms, bacteria, entozoa, etc. These aro- 
matics are anise, carawav, fenned, dill, celery and zedvar. 

Vegetables that ripen above the ground should be used as 
salads, consequently in their natural state, and when pre- 

127 



pared should be sliced with a sharp knife, cut in a chopper, 
or if of a leafy kind, should be cut with a scissor. When 
to be cooked they should not be allowed to boil in water, 
but in clarified butter, olive or vegetable oils, or half and 
half. The butter or oil should come to a heating point, 
readily extracting the liquid from the gradually added vege- 
tables by virtue of steaming. Keeping the vessel over a 
slow fire, these vegetables will soon boil in their own liquid 
and when nearly done boiling water may be added if 
these vegetables are to be used for a broth or soup. No salt 
or flavors should be added until ready for serving. 

Green vegetables, which are to serve as stock for 
soups, broths, gravies, consommes, bouillons, etc., may be 
cooked in water that is just beginning to boil and that has 
been slightly salted, allowing one tablespoonful of salt to 
-two quarts of water. Water that has been boiled for a long 
time becomes flat and destroys the flavor and appearance of 
the vegetables. Cooked green vegetables will improve thru 
the addition of one bay leaf to the quart of water. 

Green vegetables which are to serve as a dish should be 
boiled as the above, and after ten minutes' boiling the first 
water should be poured off, then the butter or oil desired 
should be added, and a fresh supply which has been heated 
in another vessel may be slowly added to the quantity de- 
sired, at any event only enough to keep the vegetable from 
getting scorched. This process removes the poisonous acids 
which might otherwise prove injurious. 

Vegetables matured on the ground, when to be used as a 
cooked dish, should be cooked in as little water as possible 
and be boiled quickly with a little oil to hasten the boiling 
point, the vessel always kept covered at the start. When 
getting done add rich cream, but do not allow to boil, sim- 
ply to reach the heating point. Green parsley, finely cut, 
and wilted in hot butter for a minute or two, will add to the 
medicinal value of the cooked vegetables matured on the 
ground. 

Vegetables which ripen beneath the surface should be 
used very sparingly and only during cold weather, as they 
contain largely soil substances not congenial to the health 
of man, particularly the higher organized as to functional 
arrangements. But even here we may find good use of them 

128 



when scientifically prepared and compounded with savories 
of diverse kinds and powdered herbs and roots. 

Vegetables reaching maturity below the ground can be 
used in their rav^^ state as quick operating eliminators, but 
can be used in small quantities only, owing to their largely 
poisonous acids. As foodstuffs they develop nutritive value 
largely thru roasting or baking in hot ashes or the oven. 
When to be boiled in their skins, or additionally wrapped 
skins, like corn and palm leaves, they must be boiled quickly 
and in soft water, or water lightly softened with borax, 
saleratus or soda, adding whole aromatic seeds to the 
boiling water in sufficient quantities of one to three 
pinches to the quart of water. If boilei with their peels 
pared off they should be boiled quickly and in just enough 
water to have them done the moment all water has boiled 
away. Then these vegetables should be thoroly mashed 
and prepared with cream or butter and put into an 
earthenware dish to bake in the oven for the purpose of 
dextrinizing, adding a sprinkle of cheese to cover the top 
of a dish one inch in depth, adding another sprinkle to 
each additional depth. 

In boiling odorous vegetables, like onions, garlic, aspara- 
gus, cauliflower, etc., a very small quantity of cayenne pep- 
per and a fev/ sprigs of parsley put in the water will some- 
what neutralize the disagreeable odor and, still more, keep 
the odor from spreading when all such vegetables are 
boiled in milk or buttermilk. 

All vegetables intended for food should be strictly fresh, 
which condition is easily indicated when they break or snap 
crisply. Home-grown vegetables, such as lettuce, peas, 
beans, spmach, carrots, corn, etc., should be gathered in the 
morning when wet with dew. Vegetables are improved 
by being put in cold water before cooking. 

Wilting savories and herbs should not be used until they 
have dried thoroly in the shade. As long as fresh ones are 
procurable do not use dried savories. 

Once vegetables have wilted and cannot be redeemed 
thru the chilling process they should be discarded as food 
for^ man, as wilted vegetables will do more to impair 
peristaltic action than any other one thing. 

129 



The tops of beets, radishes, turnips, etc., should not be 
cast aside, as they make a fine vegetable dish. Cut fine and 
cooked in butter, with additional cream, flavored with pars- 
ley and mustard leaves, a combination of vegetable tops 
will prove an excellent eliminator of particular value to 
those suffering from fibroids, tumors and cancers. 

Speaking of cooking vegetables, a wise man once said 
if you throw away water in which vegetables are boiled, you 
might as well put on green spectacles and eat shavings. 

SPANISH BEANS. 

Soak one quart of red beans over night, rinse, parboil for 
twenty minutes, pour off water, rinse, then add one quart 
of stewed tomatoes which have been well strained, four 
finely-cut onions, two or three green peppers cut lengthwise, 
with seeds removed, one-half of a cup of oil, one quart of 
water, boil until thoroly cooked ; one hour before serv- 
ing add one-half a cup of well washed rice. All to be salted 
well. (The peppers should be removed as soon as they 
are found done.) 

SPANISH SWEET CORN. 

Put green peppers in oven until slightly brown. Take 
from oven, cover tightly for five minutes. Remove skins 
and seeds, cut fine and add chopped green corn and toma- 
toes. Boil for three minutes and serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Put in boiling water with a little salt ; drain off the water 
after boiling five minutes ; pour on fresh boiling hot water 
and boil again for fifteen minutes. Add a little salt and 
olive oil. Serve with toast. The tops of asparagus should 
be a purple color, not green, to insure their being edible. 
This vegetable contains valuable salts and acids, and should 
be freely eaten. Discard woody or tough portion, as it is 
indigestible. 

BEETS. 

Use only the crisp red varieties. The large sugar beets 
are woody, and of little value except for the saccharine 

130 



matter which they contain. Boil whole, without cutting; 
then slice and serve with lemon juice, but not vinegar. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Wash the desired quantity of beans and soak over night 
in sufficient water to cover ; in the morning drain them and 
boil in fresh water for fifteen minutes ; pour off the water, 
put beans into an earthen crock, add one tablespoonful 
molasses, one teaspoonful mustard, one tablespoonful olive 
oil, a little salt, and sufficient water to cover. Put a lid on 
the crock and cook slowly all day in the oven. Add water 
occasionally until one hour before taking from the oven. 
Serve with catsup. 

CABBAGE. 

Do not boil cabbage. Boiled cabbage and sauerkraut are 
practically indigestible and should not be eaten. Make a 
cold slaw by slicing the cabbage fine ; serve with or without 
lemon juice, not vinegar. Thick, sweet cream and lemon 
juice make a very palatable dressing. A small pinch of 
mustard may be added if desired. 

SAUERKRAUT. 

This concoction, particularly the liquid thereof, Is of 
benefit in intestinal troubles when used in moderate quan- 
tities only periodically. It must be used in its raw state; 
never boiled. The brine of sauerkraut is a very powerful 
agent in liver troubles. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Tie up the caulifloer in a coarse tarlatan and boil one to 
two hours in water to which has been added a little salt. 
Drain and lay in deep dish. Heat one cupful milk ; add a 
little flour which has been previously creamed in a little 
cold milk, the beaten white of one egg, and a little salt. 
Boil a few minutes, stirring briskly. Take from the fire, 
add a little lemon juice, then pour over the cauliflower and 
serve. 

131 



CARROTS. 

Select the ox-heart variety. Boil one hour, or until 
tender, then add the desired quantity of milk into which has 
been creamed a little flour. Boil five or ten minutes, then 
serve. It is better to use carrots for soups, as they have no 
special food value. 

CELERY. 

This vegetable is particularly valuable as a blood puri- 
fier. It aids in restoring depleted nerve forces, tones up the 
system, and its use is highly beneficial in cases of nervous 
prostration and kidney disorders. May be used to advan- 
tage in soups. 

CORN TIMBALES. 

Beat five eggs until light; add one-half teaspoonful salt, 
one tablespoonful oil, one cupful cracker-dust, and one pint 
green corn which has been grated from the cob. Pour into 
oiled timbale molds which have been dusted with finely- 
chopped parsley. Set in a baking pan of boiling water, 
cover with a sheet of oiled paper and cook in oven for 
twenty minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. Green corn on 
cob should be boiled for one hour, or, what is better, should 
be steamed in a steam cooker one to two hours. Do not 
serve with butter or animal fats ; it is the cause of acute and 
dangerous stomach disorders. 

GREEN CORN, 

Particularly field corn, raw or boiled for three minutes, is 
an excellent regulator. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Take fresh tomatoes, scoop out the middle, mash up fine 
and put thru colander. Put into bowl to make a stuffing by 
adding chopped nuts, onions, hard-boiled eggs, finely-cut 
parsley, flaked rice, salt and pepper to suit taste and stir 
into a paste. Then fill your tomatoes with the stuffing and 
bake. May be served without baking upon lettuce leaves 
garnished with cress and nasturtiums. 

132 



VEGETABLE DISH. 

As In the mixed dish, you can make use of any canned 
vegetables and combining two or three, heating the cans 
before opening them, you can prepare ever so many nice 
dishes. Asparagus, mushrooms and green beans make an 
ideal combination, especially when served with mint or let- 
tuce leaves sprinkled with green onions or celery. 

MUSHROOM DELICACY. 

Arrange in a buttered casserole alternate layers uncooked 
mushrooms, bits of butter, seasonings of salt and pepper, 
cream and fine buttered crumbs. Let the first layer be the 
buttered crumbs. Pour in a little more cream, cover and 
bake forty-five minutes. Uncover, brown slightly and serve 
from the dish. 

CUCUMBERS 

Are of value for salads, and should be used only when pre- 
pared as such. They contain no nutriment, but are very 
cooling to the blood when served with lemon juice, but not 
vinegar. 

DANDELION. 

Prepare same as spinach. Its blood-purifying properties 
are many. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel onions and put in covered saucepan with cold water 
and boil one hour. When done, add one tablespoonful 
chopped parsley, and a little flour mixed with sweet milk; 
boil five minutes, then serve. Young or old onions may be 
used, as preferred. 

SPINACH. 

Wash desired quantity of spinach, boil for ten minutes; 
pour ofif the water; add fresh boiling water and boil for 
one hour, or until tender. Add a little salt, lemon juice, and 
olive oil to taste. Do not mix butter or other animal oils 
with spinach. It will, in many instances, cause severe de- 

133 



rangements of the stomach, and often cholera morbus. 
Spinach is a valuable blood purifier, and should be eaten 
whenever desired. Indispensible in cancer troubles. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Wash a good-sized egg plant, put in kettle, cover with 
boiling water, to which has been added a little salt, and boil 
twenty minutes. Cut lengthwise into halves and carefully 
take out the insides, leaving wall three-fourths of an inch in 
thickness. Mix the pulp just removed with one-fourth cup- 
ful cracker-dust, one-half cupful chopped or ground al- 
monds, one tablespoonful olive oil, and a little salt. If the 
mixture is too dry, add a little milk. Fill the shells, heap- 
ing them up, sprinkle over a small quantity cracker-dust, put 
in baking dish, set in brisk oven and bake until top Is nicely 
browned, then serve. 

Egg plants may be cut in slices, soaked one hour in 
strong salt water, rolled in beaten Qgg and cracker-dust, 
fried in oil, then served. This vegetable has good food 
value and may be eaten at all times. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

After scraping, cut crosswise in thin slices ; put In suffi- 
cient water to cover and stew until quite tender. Add a lit- 
tle milk, olive oil and salt. May be served with toast if 
desired. 

POTATOES 

Should be sparingly eaten; much better not at all. They 
are not healthful at best. If it is necessary to eat them, 
bake them in an oven until well done. Eat the entire potato ; 
do not discard the peeling, as it is next to this that the 
nutriment lies. The sweet potato is the best variety. 

STRING BEANS. 

String, snap and wash two quarts beans ; boil in plenty 
of water for fifteen minutes ; drain, then pour over again 
two quarts boiling water. Boil one and one-half hours. 

134 



Add a little salt, two tablespoonfuls oil into which has been 
creamed two tablespoonfuls of flour, and one cupful sweet 
cream. 

TOMATOES 

Are valuable for their acids, which are very beneficial to the 
system. They should be stewed until well done, seeds 
strained out, a little oil, salt and milk added ; then boil a few 
minutes before serving. It is well to use them in soups. 

TURNIPS 

If tender, may be used occasionally. They are better in 
soups, as the nutriment contained is very low. 

MIXED DISH. 

Take a can of peas and a can of asparagus. Put them 
in a pot of boiling water and heat for five to ten minutes. 
Open the cans and drain off the liquid from each. Put 
peas and asparagus into a bowl. Oil, pepper and salt to 
taste. Mix thoroly and serve on lettuce with parsley. If 
you boil half a dozen fresh young potatoes with their jack- 
ets on over a quick fire, adding a teaspoonsful of caraway 
or sweet fennel seeds, drain as soon as they are done; 
peel the potatoes and slice fine, mixing them with the peas 
and asparagus ; this addition will improve the dish. Eaten 
with whole-wheat bread it will prove an ideal meal. The 
liquid remaining over from the vegetables will make body 
for soups or can be used with a little additional oil as an 
excellent purgative. 

USE OF POTATO. 

The only proper way to use a potato is to bake it In hot 
ashes, after having been washed and scrubbed thoroly in 
cold v/ater. The soil upon which the fire is made must be 
clay, and the fire, wood. This is the only method in which 
the soil substance of the potato may be redeemed to food 
properties, and skin and pulp have to be eaten alike. An- 
other way to redeem the potato, if boiling it must be boiled 
quickly and with jackets on, the water to contain a good 
dash of caraway or dill seeds. 

135 



POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Select large potatoes and have all the same size, if pos- 
sible. Bake until done. When done, cut each potato in two 
lengthwise and scoop out the inside with a spoon, being 
careful not to break the skins. Add to the potatoes a little 
salt and sufficient cream to make quite soft ; beat until very 
light and smooth and refill the skins with this. Now place 
the potatoes in a pan and return to the oven to brown on 
top. The potatoes will puff up considerably if well beaten 
before refilling the skin. 

BEANS. 

All the numerous varieties of beans belong to the pulses. 
They are more or less rich in phosphates and salts in gen- 
eral, but are not considered highly organized. They are 
the poor man's food and cheaper than potatoes, because 
of the enormous amount of nutrition. Should be used 
sparingly except where one is manually engaged. 

PEAS, 

Like peas and lentils, are classed among the pulses, and 
are not considered good food for the intellectual and 
spiritual minded. Can be used to a great advantage in 
symposias and to give ''body" to entree dishes. 

ENDIVE 

Belongs to the same class as lettuce. There are many 
varieties, as there are many varieties of lettuce, of which 
the head lettuce is the better for general use, while Roman 
lettuce proves of value to the scrofulous. Of endive, the 
solid variety is the better. Should be eaten without salt 
or dressings if to be of medicinal value to the kidneys and 
the bladder. 



136 



HEALTH RULES. 

Eat only when absolutely hungry. 

Do not eat an early breakfast or immediately after arising 
from a night's rest. 

Always work for several hours before partaking of food. 

Instead of drinking any water, a little juicy fruit may be 
taken in the morning. The fruit should be eaten very slowly 
and masticated until tasteless. 

Never eat nuts or any other oily foods unless hungry. 

Too many nuts and too much raw oil will cause eruptions 
of the skin, pimples, sores, blotches, etc., as will also too 
many sweet fruits, particularly the dried kinds. Eating too 
much cream, eggs, cheese and butter will produce the same 
effect. 

When bowels get too loose, avoid fruits and vegetables 
and use nuts and grain preparations only. In case the loose- 
ness of the bowels causes aches and pains, use a little 
browned flour or make brown flour gravies, which are to 
be used with your meals. 

Do not drink with your meals. If eating slowly and mix- 
ing solids with the saliva no drink will be required. 

Never mix vegetables and fruits together at one meal. 
Keep them separate. 

You can have grains, nuts and fruits at one meal and 
grains, nuts and vegetables at another meal. 

Use nuts in very small quantities and use them rather 
regularly, combined with other foods. 

Do not eat when served under rather unpleasant sur- 
roundings and a spirit of depression, nor food prepared by 
persons of a hasty and uncontrollable temperament, as the 
food, however pleasant to the palate, will be a detriment to 
the system. 

Do not eat unless you have earned your meal, unless you 
are assured and certain you are entitled to the same. 

137 



DIETARY RULES. 

When vegetables or too many sweet fruits are used at a 
meal something tart, sub-acid or even acid, like lemon, to- 
mato, rhubarb, etc., should be used. 

Concentrated foods, whether sun-produced or scientific- 
ally prepared, must be counterbalanced with foods contain- 
ing eliminative, consequently waste tendencies, to insure 
regularity in action. 

Remember that in eating quality, not quantity, is to be 
considered. The better the flavor, the finer and more deli- 
cate the taste and looks of the fruits, the less is required. 
The sweeter and more oily the nuts, the easier digestible. 
The more crisp and fresh the vegetables, the more elimina- 
tive and refreshing. The more recently the grain has been 
prepared, the fresher the flour, the drier the cereal, all the 
more nourishing it is, consequently less will be required, 
and the system will not run the risk of becoming clogged. 

Whatever your ailment is, abstain from your usual foods 
entirely and do not take any food until hunger determines 
the kind. In every instance we should, in accordance to 
our trouble or temperament, make our choice from one or 
two of the following fruits or vegetables : Pineapple, ap- 
ple, orange, lemon, grape, asparagus, celery, tomatoes, 
rhubarb, parsley, etc. We use only the juice, and reject the 
pulp. 

For night work or evening study, use a few grapes, 
scraped apple with orange juice, oranges, tomatoes, seeded 
raisins sprinkled with fresh-ground almond meal, or sip 
lemonade without sweetening. 

Children as well as adults must abstain from all solids 
when ailing, and only such fluids as fruit juices and herb 
decoctions administered to and only then when feeling the 
necessity of something substantial. 

138 



INVALIDS. 



THEIR NEED TO CHANGE CLIMATE. 

The idea of change of cUmate for the purpose of attain- 
ing to health both in body and mind has been cherished for 
thousands of years. Thus we find in the annals of Greece 
the renowned physicians advising their charges to retire to 
the islands, where in the presence of water and sky they 
might commune with the gods and confine themselves to the 
ambrosia and nectar administered by priestesses. The 
Egyptians sent their invalids of the North to temples situ- 
ated in the extreme South and oftentimes to the lands be- 
yond the Nile, that on a diet prescribed by the priests they 
might gain favor from the gods unto perfect health. 

Change of climate was the counsel, but back of it all 
stood a more important thought. It was that of freedom 
fromx environment that had grown monotonous due to ex- 
cessive living or lack of proper association. The object 
of change of climate is not merely change of scenery and 
the weight of air thru altitude, nor the dry or wet ozone of 
desert or ocean. The idea of change of climate is that of 
reversing one's selection of food from that of the local mar- 
ket of the North to that of the products of the tropics, and 
vice versa. If you cannot gain health in the North, go to 
the extreme South, but remember that you cannot take your 
broiled meats and potatoes with cream gravy with you. In 
the South you are to live upon the diverse products of that 
clime to Induce a change in the operation of your organic 
functions. If you cannot eat the fruits, vegetation, nuts 
and herbs of the new country you will have to do without 
them until hunger will select what may appeal as the next 
best. Three weeks' time of change In diet will show decided 
improvement, at the same time teaching one the value of 

139 



selection and the proper amount of food necessary. Taking 
to diverse occupations and making a point to select one's food 
will hasten a cure for the body and quicken the mind. Re- 
turning to one's former association the intelligent mind 
never again returns to the ignorance of riotous living, but 
takes good care that food is only partaken of w^hen hungry 
and only as much as is deemed proper. 

The man in the South who is diseased in body and mind 
may not live up to the demands of the seasons and the pro- 
ducts of his clime. If he does not he should make a change 
in his methods. Otherwise he is to go to the far North 
where the winds blow and foodstuffs grow sparingly ; v/here 
the selection of food is poor and necessitates hunger to be 
willing to eat of the ''garden weeds" as they slowly sprout 
under the sweat of the brow of the caretakers. Amidst 
the pines one is to seek berries and sorrels of all kinds, and 
with thankfulness masticate slovv^ly the young corncobs. 
Five weeks will suffice to bring about the desired change. 
To keep warm exercise by chopping, cutting, scaling and 
snaking timber from the mountain sides, and instead of the 
bathtub rub your body with water of clear-flowing streams. 
Over a primitively built campfire roast your corn and bake 
your doughgods, and mind not when the charred wood 
drops into the water kettle and the frying pan, as even the 
ashes of the fire will add to the chemicalization and dextri- 
nization of your food, teaching you a grander lesson than 
that recorded In encyclopaedias of useful knowledge. Re- 
turning South you will revolutionize your household and 
thru increased activity and proper selection of food serve 
the cause of man — right living and right thinking thru good 
thought, good word and good deed. 

Where one has not the good fortune to change climate 
the spirit of the times brings the two extremes in Nature 
and their products to us and places the blessings of heaven 
before our very doors. If living In the North, make It a 
point to llva on tropical fruits and nuts, or vegetables and 
nuts, as the 'case may be, for at least three weeks and there- 
after 'confining oneself little by little to products of the local 
market. At first such diet appears expensive, but not so 
when one realizes that the menu itself Is limited to a rather 
small variety and then that no special preparation of these 

140 



foods is necessary, but that the patient can attend to 
himself. And again, as all of this is temporary only, like 
the taking of medicine, and, after all, cheaper than the latter 
and better, because it is delicious food one partakes of, the 
expense is very nominal, while pleasure and delight increase. 
Some day bottles, paper bags and powder chatules, etuis, 
capsules and boxes will disappear from the apothecary 
shops and the products of the tropics and semi-tropics take 
their place, where man may go and have his prescription 
filled by doctors of truly scientific renown ; where instead of 
being doped in an ancestral way on concoctions that draw 
th^ nerves into a bundle of misery and unhappy grimaces, 
the invalid can sit down and with pleasure in his heart de- 
light in a meal assuring ease of mind and relief to the body. 

The drug shops in the South will not only keep medicinal 
fruits and the products of their own country, but also such 
products of the far North, prepared and put up so that 
pure-food labels would be offensive to the better class know- 
ing that science stands for the absolute truth of things, ad- 
ministering only what is in accordance to the laws of per- 
fect life. Return to Nature then will not mean to live in a 
hovel or to run about with unwashed feet and long, un- 
kempt hair, but to partake in Nature's own laboratory of 
what the guiding hand of Providence has prepared for the 
delight of the children of man, and thus lead the faithful 
ones unto the inheritance of a Paradise most suitable unto 
God and His Associates to dwell therein. 

The moral of it all, in short, is this : If sick in the North 
go South, to live on southern products or procure the pro- 
ducts of the tropics ; if living in the South and diseased, go 
North or procure the northern products, to subsist upon 
them until well, and thereafter confine yourself to the local 
market, eating only when hungry, eating all food with 
thanksgiving in your heart ; masticate slowly and cease mix- 
ing too many varieties at a time, recognizing the fact that 
the truest guide is that of living within the range of the sea- 
son, as every season brings forth its own kind, and that our 
stomach has two compartments demanding that every deter- 
mined dish be partaken of one at a time to insure proper 
separation of acids and salts for furtherance unto perfect 
digestion. 

141 



A change of diet homogeneous to another clime neces- 
sarily suggests the air of distant scenes, and food partaken 
of in the spirit of recollection and concentration of thought 
prompts heartfelt thanksgiving unto the Bountiful Giver. 
Good Thought adds greatly to the mastication, digestion 
and assimilation of the remedial properties of the foods, 
retaining the life substance contained therein and thus 
assisting the weakened energies to resume their work in 
their cellular composition. It is for this reason that 
prayers or blessings were advised at meal time so as to pro- 
mote the power of concentration and thus assist the mind 
to conduct or control the functional operations of the diges- 
tive organs. 

What we say about change of climate should suffice the 
intelligent minded ; still not enough can be said about 
change of diet, which means change in the selection of 
variety as well as change in preparation. The hands that 
prepare the food, the way tlie food is administered and 
the conditions of surrounding all have a great bearing 
and influence upon the negative mind, steeped in disease 
and error. One should experience change of heart, which 
is a requisite toward health. Become hopeful and con- 
fiding, trustful and tenacious, determined to make a change 
even at the sacrifice of acquired habits, notions and appe- 
tites which have done much to undermine our good health. 

Furthermore, we should remember that water is abso- 
lutely valueless in case of disease, except for bathing and 
steam-baths, of which a person should have one a day 
as long as diseased, or bring the body into perspiration 
for at least half an hour daily, if not thru exercise then 
thru the use of herbs, as jaborandi, elder blossoms, cam- 
omile, etc. The healthy man not sufficiently engaged 
manually must have two sweat or vapor baths a week. 



142 



DIET FOR INVALIDS. 

REJUVENATING FOODS 

Are strawberries, blueberries, gooseberries, fresh grapes, 
fresh figs, tart apples, pineapples,^ pears, peaches, oranges, 
persimmons and grapefruit when combined with wheat, 
rolled, cracked or ground ; also with rice and sago, almonds 
and pine nuts. 

FOR GENERAL IMPROVEMENT 

Of health and appearance select fresh milk smoothed with 
lemon or tomato juice, fresh buttermilk, skim milk, clabber, 
white of eggs, cottage cheese or cream cheese. Combine 
with mushrooms and wheat or rice, tart fruits and barley, 
rye or rice and sago. Fresh vegetables with nuts and grains 
of any kind. 

FOR VITALITY AND MENTAL STRENGTH 

Make selections in smaller quantities, combining two or 
three things for one meal, as follows : The white of eggs 
with grains, blanched almonds, apples or pears. Tomatoes, 
asparagus, spinach, combined with grains, particularly rice 
and milk, with or without lemon juice or tomato juice. 
Cauliflower, celery or raw cabbage eaten with grains and 
lemonade or white of eggs beaten with lemon juice. 
Grapes, oranges and pears with rice, sago or wheat and 
pine nuts. 

FOR CURE OF CONSTIPATION 

And to promote bowel action select apples, apricots, pears, 
small berries, tart fruits, plums and all fresh green vege- 
tables — tomatoes, rhubarb and watercress. Combine one or 
more with raw- peanuts or pine nuts. For drink use butter- 

143 



milk or fruit juices, also cream thinned down with three to 
four parts of filtered water. Avoid cooked foods as much 
as possible, particularly cereals, toast and hot milk. Abstain 
from dairy foods in general, acid fruits, blue and red grapes, 
stimulants, cocoa, herbs and vinegar. 

FOR MORAL STRENGTH 

And sweet temper confine yourself to fresh berries, apples, 
grapes, oranges, tomatoes, melons, squashes, green vege- 
tables, rice, sago and wheat, pine nuts, walnuts, chestnuts 
and filberts. Use foods in a cold state rather than prepared. 
Do not eat or drink hot dishes. 

FATTENING FOODS. 

Vegetables with savories and oils when combined with 
eggs, grains, cakes and sweets. Fruits, particularly pre- 
served, jams and jellies, when combined with grains, rice, 
sago, hominy, oils, butter and cream, fruits being spiced. 
Grains, particularly corn and wheat, when combined with 
figs, dates, prunes, peanuts, pine nuts, filberts and additional 
cream. Chew grain frequently until all taste is gone and 
expel the pulp. Eat plenty of fruit and keep bowels open. 
Never worry. Entertain no ideas unless absolutely neces- 
sary. Take cold sponge baths and rub body with oils and 
spices, 

THINNING FOODS. 

Green vegetables with lemon and tomato juice; butter- 
milk, white of eggs with lemon, lemonades without sweet- 
ening, acid fruits with cracked wheat and rolled oats or 
flaked rice, milk with lemon and pineapple juice, cheese and 
lemon juice eaten with wheat preparations, acid fruits for 
breakfast and sweet fruits with lemon or persimmon juices 
at night, rhubarb, spinach, white of egg and rice. Bathe 
much, take alcohol and cornstarch rubs. 

FOODS PROMOTING IMMORAL AND SEX TROUBLES. 

Tea, coffee, cocoa, alcoholic drinks, tobacco, kumyss, 
clabber, oats, manufactured cheese, eggs, pastry, cakes, 
sodas, spices, savories, also potatoes and peanuts if wrongly 

144 



combined. Avoid large gatherings, political and theatrical 
meetings, etc., until able to control. 

TO ELIMINATE SEX TROUBLES 

Confine yourself to a simple diet of two or three things at 
a time from the following: Small fresh berries, apples, 
pears, grapes, oranges, pomegranates, lemons, melons, 
squash, tomatoes, rhubarb, celery, lettuce, watercress, green 
onions, cabbage, fresh corn, pearl and unpolished barley, 
unpolished rice, whole wheat, rolled, cracked or ground, 
dried bread, pine nuts and cocoanuts. Eat sparingly and 
leave the table still hungry. Take many walks in very cold 
weather. 

HEART TROUBLES 

Are the result of a torpid liver. To overcome these troubles 
abstain from an excessive use of fatty, rich, starchy, sweet 
foods, eggs, cream, chocolate, stimulants, and use more 
juicy fruits, but no water. Eat more fruit combined with 
nut creams, sun-dried bread, fresh greens, dandelion, water- 
pepper, mustard leaves, cress, tart apples, lemons, tomatoes, 
rhubarb, rice, macaroni, cottage cheese, buttermilk, clabber. 

NERVOUSNESS 

Is induced by the use of drinks with meals and the use of 
bread and butter with tea or coffee ; cakes with cocoa or 
chocolate; puddings and custards, pies and pastries exces- 
sively spiced and used with ices and lemonades. Avoid all 
this and confine yourself to very slow eating, selecting foods 
as in case of indigestion, confining yourself to two meals 
and abstain from social dinners. 

INDIGESTION AND DYSPEPSIA 

Will be easily overcome by avoiding drinks with meals. Ab- 
stain from the use of soups and cereals unless cooked for 
hours. Use no dairy foods, no oils, and nuts sparingly and 
only when combined with fruits. Select from the follow- 
ing: Apples, oranges, pears, peaches, pomegranates, cran- 
berries, cherries, citron, ginger fruit, green grapes, fresh 

145 



figs, ripe olives, asparagus, cauliflower, horseradish, green 
corn, beans and peas, pumpkin, squash, rhubarb, spinach, 
turnips, gluten preparations as macaroni, spaghetti, sub- 
acid berries, parsnips, almonds and pine nuts in the form of 
creams. Eat raw or prepared. Do not eat anything that 
nauseates you or disagrees with you. 

IN LUNG OR PULMONARY TROUBLES, 

Coughs, colds, catarrhs, bronchial affections, abstain from 
all dairy foods, eggs, stone fruits, including blue grapes. 

KIDNEY TROUBLES. 

Abstain principally from eggs, water, oats, rye, rice, 
pears, plums, walnuts, Brazil nuts, chestnuts, pulses, dried 
fruits. Confine yourself mostly to solid foods in their raw 
state, using freely skimmed milk and cream thinned with 
lemon juice or orange juice, pine nut creams, fresh fruits, 
gruels boiled for four or more hours, green vegetables. 

MENTAL OR INTELLECTUAL FOODS 

For students, masters, virtuosos, artists, geniuses, and all 
those in search of spiritual knowledge. First live so as to 
eliminate all morbid substances from the system, adhere 
to simple diet and by prayer and fasting gain that station 
in life where the selection of food becomes limited yet most 
gratifying in your pursuit after knowledge. Confine your- 
self principally to the use of almonds, raisins, oranges, 
lemons, transparent grapes, raw grains, by masticating 
them thoroly, expelling the pulp as soon as absolutely taste- 
less. Use vegetables only in season, as nature produces 
them according to climatic conditions. Eat apples freely 
Deviate from regular diet only periodically with change of 
seasons. Abstain from dairy foods except when absolutely 
necessary to counteract certain tendencies. Do not eat un- 
less you can do so with pleasure and attention to the food 
and its value to your system. 



146 



RAW FOOD. 



Mazdaznan is too broad, too liberal, to be partial, and 
does not condemn cooked, baked, roasted or prepared foods, 
although it does hold to economy in all departments of life. 
Mazdaznan favors raw foods wherever available and when- 
ever in season and adaptable to the climate. Much will de- 
pend upon the individual's temperament and knowledge of 
selection. Cooking, baking and roasting do not destroy the 
life principle of the vegetation, but they change its soil prop- 
erties, consequently the salts and acids, to such an extent 
that almost twice the quantity of cooked food becomes 
necessary to get the same results that raw food insures. The 
exclusive use of cooked foods is detrimental because of the 
excessive amount of food impossible for the system to as- 
similate. Partly cooked and prepared foods during the 
colder season are commendable. Raw foods can be pre- 
pared more daintily, more elaborately decorative and more 
appetizing than otherwise, and by a little experimenting 
hundreds of dishes can be prepared to meet everybody's de- 
mands, requirements and tastes. 

Mazdaznan favors simplicity, economy and holds that a 
rapidly progressing individual outgrows readily and easily 
all of the complications In food matters, leaning more and 
more to the simple foods as nature furnishes them, select- 
ing as necessity demands and with as little preparation as 
possible. In the following pages we shall give just a few 
recipes which will be suggestive of many combinations suit- 
able to the Individual's demands and needs. ^ A little prac- 
tice will develop a gift for limitless combinations. 



147 



GENERAL FOOD RULES. 

GRAINS. 

Rolled grains, broken, cracked, ground (coarse or fine), 
may be soaked in water or milk and made into cakes or 
loaves, crackers, gruels, etc. 

CEREALS. 

Rolled, cracked and flaked grains, including rice, sago, 
tapioca, pulses as beans, peas, lentils, when combined with 
grains, may be mixed with fruits and nuts or vegetables 
and dairly foods and nuts. In combining with fruits, spices 
may be used, but combining with vegetables savories only 
should be admitted. 

NUTS. 

Combine with any dish. Grapefruit, oranges, pineapples 
and lemons are most desirable fruits for nut creams, allow- 
ing dairy cream. Tom.atoes, rhubarb, sorrel and other tart 
vegetables agree well with nuts and make up fine nut 
creams, allowing dairy creams. Use nuts sparingly, but 
regularly with your meals. 

GREEN VEGETABLES. 

Such as beans, peas, cucumbers, egg plant, spinach, etc., 
after they are sliced or cut fine, should be thoroly salted and 
allowed to remain in salt for one-half hour, and then 
washed quickly in cold water. Any vegetable combines with 
nuts, grains and dairy products. Water should not be used 
with vegetables. 

FRUITS. 

Any fruit will combine with nuts and grain and in some 
instances with dairy foods. Care should be taken in never 
combining water with fruits when living upon raw foods. 

148 



DAIRY FOODS. 

In raw food diet for health purposes dairy foods are per- 
missible, although the frequent use of same cannot be 
recommended. They prove a good "means to an end," par- 
ticularly where we are outgrowing the flesh-eating and 
partly the habitual cooked food dietary. 

Milk, cream, butter and cheese may be used. Also eggs 
can be used to advantage. Nut creams will prove more 
beneficial than dairy creams, altho the latter when combined 
with the former and small quantities of grain or fruit will 
often prove of inestimable value until we have learned more 
by close observation. Dairy foods in a raw food diet 
should not be mixed. Only one kind should be used to 
combme with grains, fruits and nuts, or vegetables, nuts and 
grams. Do not use eggs and milk at the same time, nor 
butter or cheese with eggs when on a raw diet. When us- 
mg dairy products, acid, sub-acid or tart fruits or vegetables 
should be combined with a meal. In the following pages 
we shall give a few combinations that will enable us to make 
proper selection. 

WATER. 

This element is an excellent food, most economical, but 
not always advisable, and is better in its distilled form as 
nature supplies it in the form of vegetables and fruits. A 
better water than this and a more wholesome will not be 
found even though the artificial means may be ever so costly 
and ingeniously constructed. If your system needs fluids 
resort to juicy fruits. In eating scrape the fruit with your 
front teeth. Masticate thoroly, mixing it with saliva. This 
will prove of greater medicinal value and remove more trou- 
bles m one day than all the sciences combined shall be able 
to accomplish in centuries. Never use water with fruits or 
vegetables. 

The Raw Foodist must be particularly careful with 
water, and never use it with his meals except when living 
on bread or cereals. Where fruits or vegetables are used 
with meal, discard v/ater. 



149 



BEVERAGES AND DRINKS. 

HEALTH DRINK. 

Take one dozen each of Italian chestnuts and dates. Grind 
it all fine and pour a pint of sweet milk over it. Set aside 
for an hour. Strain before using. If left over night grind 
the nuts coarse. Used with malted grains and a few raw 
peanuts it will bring about the desired effect. An excellent 
morning drink. 

MORNING DRINK. 

At night before retiring to bed take three figs, two dates, 
two tablespoonfuls of raw peanuts with the brown skin, six 
chestnuts peeled, but with brown skin adhering. Grind or 
chop them all together. Pour over the mixture either water 
or sweet milk. Stir it before setting aside. In the morn- 
ing strain thru flannel cloth and drink any desired quantity. 
It is mildly laxative. 

POPPY DRINK. 

Grind fine two tablespoonfuls of poppy seeds and add to 
one cupful of water or milk. Set aside in porcelain or 
earthenware dish for an hour or more. This makes a nice 
drink before retiring, also a fine drink at any time. The 
poppy seeds must not be fresh, 

FOOD DRINK. 

Take a cupful of sweet milk and beat it quickly, add the 
juice of half a lemon, pouring juice slowly. Fine summer 
drink and is good for invalids. May be used moderately 
in winter. 

EGG DRINK. 

Take the whites of two eggs. Beat until frothy. Gradu- 
ally beat into it one-half cup of cream and lastly the juice 

150 



of half a lemon. Used with a few nuts and a tablcspoonful 
of raw wheat it will prove nourishing. 

HOME BUTTERMILK. 

Make your own buttermilk, a drink most desirable for 
convalescents. It is refreshing and cooling in winter and 
occasionally in summer. Take one pint of milk, stir it con- 
tinuously while dropping little by little the juice of one 
lemon. In beating vigorously, the milk, although curdling, 
will be smooth. You can flavor with any fruit juice. 

COLD TEA OR COFFEE. 

Take unroasted, sun-dried coffee berries, grind them fine 
and to every cupful of water use one tablcspoonful. Set 
aside for half an hour or more. Strain thru cheesecloth or 
flannel. May be used with cream for medicinal purposes 
with good results. 

In preparing Russian or Oriental tea in general proceed 
the same as with coffee. Take two teaspoonfuls of tea to 
one-half cupful of water. Set aside for thirty minutes. Add 
any desired quantity of water, milk or cream, and strain im- 
mediately thereafter. Tea or coffee may be soaked in milk 
if desired. 

COCOANUT DRINKS. 

Take the milk of cocoanut and dilute with an equal quan- 
tity of water or sweet milk and pour over two tablespoon- 
fuls of finely-ground blanched peanuts. Set aside for sev- 
eral hours or over night. In the morning strain it well. 
Drink it freely. Instead of cocoanut milk grate fresh cocoa- 
nut fine and pour enough of lemon juice over it to cover 
well. Set aside for hours. Then mash it all fine and add 
any desired quantity of water, straining it several times. It 
is very wholesome and may be used with milk instead of 
water. 

BARLEY JOY. 

Grind coarse two cupfuls of barley, add one cupful 
oatmeal and two quarts of water or sweet milk. Allow 
to stand for three hours before using. 

151 



BREAD. 

DAILY BREAD. 

Take one cupful of whole wheat and run it thru a grinder 
coarsely. Next grind one-half cupful of raw peanuts and 
one-fourth cupful of pitted dried prunes. Cream peanuts 
and prunes with the flour separately, then mix these to- 
gether and eat dry. Will aid in regular habits and cure ail- 
ments of the bowels if eaten daily for several weeks alter- 
nated with some of the following dishes. Use at one meal 
a day only. 

SUN-BAKED BREAD. 

Take coarse ground flour, moisten it with a little oil and 
more water, use very little or no salt, or salt the oil before 
adding it to the flour. Knead and beat the dough in a shady 
place. While beating add, or better still, spray water over 
the dough gradually. When light in consistency, make into 
thin layers the size of wafers. Heat some iron plates or 
pans in the sun and spread upon them oiled paper and on 
that put the cakes. Set out in the scorching sun and let 
them bake all day. This bread will keep almost indefinitely 
if kept in tins and in a dry place. Should the layers ever 
become soft immediately retake them. Eaten with fruit 
this bread not only acts on the bowels, but is one of the best 
remedial agents to cure constipation. Soft boiled eggs may 
be used in connection with this bread to hasten a cure. Raw 
peanuts ground into the flour will prove good results, while 
"'lungers" ought to add pine nuts. Hard working people 
should use Brazil nuts or chestnuts with this bread. Brain 
workers will fare best by adding almonds and raisins to the 
bread. 

FORCE BREAD. 

Grindl in a mill one-half cupful of vv'hole wheat, one tea- 
spoonful each of pearl barley and rye. Mix with two table- 

152 



spoonfuls of raw peanuts and one tablespoonful of pine or 
Brazil nuts; add one-half cupful of dried apples. Moisten 
with unfermented apple juice. Form into small cakes and 
expose to the hot sun for half an hour. Eat slowly and 
masticate thoroly. Use no drink with this bread. 

PROMOTION BREAD. 

Soak barley in enough water to cover. Let it soak until 
the g-lume begins to rise, which requires from twelve to 
thirty-six hours in accordance to temperature. Pour off 
water, if any present. Set out dish into strong sunlight 
and where the breeze will fan it. Spread out the barley on 
paper so as to dry quickly. Now grind it and add an equal 
quantity of raw peanuts. After thoro mixing add enough 
rice flour to make it roll into little balls which are to be 
dipped into the white of an Qgg beaten with some lemon 
juice, orange or pineapple ; smooth with rice flour and make 
a meal of it with additional fruit, small or seed fruits, which 
should be tart. Eaten two to three times a week, .naking 
a meal of it, will prove beneficial. 

NUT BREAD. 

Grind coarse one-half cupful blanched almonds, one table- 
spoonful walnuts, two tablespoonfuls pine nuts. Add one- 
half cupful flaked oats (or wheat, barley, rice, corn, peas, 
beans, or lentils). Mix it all thoroly and moisten with milk, 
water or fruit juices. Spread in a thin layer. Sprinkle the 
top with St. John's bread flour or chestnut flour and expose 
to the heat of the sunlight for at least one hour. May be 
eaten with grapefruit or tomatoes. 

POPPY BREAD. 

Take one-half cupful of poppy seeds, two figs, one date, 
three pods of St. John's (locust) bread, one cupful chest- 
nuts. Grind them all together. Mix with two tablespoon- 
fuls rice flour. Moisten with any fruit juice, cream or 
white of eggs. Roll out until stiff. Pat in rice flour and 
allow to drv in the sun. 

153 



CHESTNUT BREAD. 

One pound finely-ground chestnuts, two tablespoonfuls 
ground peanuts, one pound flaked rice moistened with milk 
to make into loaves. Set out in the sun for an hour. Cut 
into slices and serve with fruit or vegetables. 

HEALTH BREAD. 

Two cupfuls of flaked wheat, one cupful of whole-wheat 
flour, one-half cupful of finely-ground rice and two cupfuls 
of finely-grated cocoanut. Mix and moisten with water 
into which you have beaten the white of an tgg. Add the 
water slowly, mixing well. Make it a light substance. Roll 
it out with rice flour. If you want to keep the bread for 
any length of time, roll the dough out very thin with a roll- 
ing pin. Cut it into long, narrow strips. Let these strips 
dry. Put away in oiled paper bags. Will keep indefinitly. 
If you wish, you may use the yolks of eggs as well, but use 
little or no water. Eaten with fruit juices or cream this 
bread will prove very palatable. 

BARLEY JOY LOAF. 

Grind coarse two cupfuls of pearl barley and one cupful 
of whole wheat kernel; mix thoroly, adding two cupfuls 
of sweet milk. Knead quickly and roll out into thin layer 
with rolling pin. Set out into the sun to dry. Will prove 
very palatable if baked on soapstone or copper covered 
with thin glass. 

HONEY BREAD. 

One cupful of coarsely ground wheat, ^ cupful each 
of finely chopped figs and prunes, two well beaten bananas, 
and lastly one-half cupful honey. Roll out into layers 
of one-quarter-inch thickness. Slice into finger breadth 
strips and put out into sun to bake. May be put into 
electric oven to dry. Will keep. Fine for constipatives. 



lU 



CEREALS. 

WHEAT DISH. 

Pick over a cupful of wheat grain and pour enough water 
over same to cover it well. Let it stand for four or more 
hours. Add two tablespoonfuls finely-ground raw peanuts 
and one cupful scraped apples. Mix them thoroly and eat 
slowly. Very nutritious and highly palatable. 

ROLLED OATS. 

Soak one-half cupful rolled oats in one cupful any fruit 
juice (except lemon) for fifteen minutes and sprinkle with 
almond meal. 

GRAPE GRAIN. 

The juice of grapes mixed with cracked or rolled wheat 
is the most palatable and easily-digested food. Use fruit 
juices two-thirds to one-third the quantity of grain. 

WHEAT DISH. 

Soak for half an hour one cupful cracked wheat in two 
cupfuls milk. Add a little pineapple to flavor and sprinkle 
blanched almonds or pine nuts over it. Serve with apple 
souffle. 

MUSH. 

Take one cupful of rolled oats and spread in a large 
bowl. Over this put a layer of sliced pineapple, a very thin 
layer of rolled wheat, a layer of one cupful of mixed nuts, 
well chopped or ground, another layer of pineapple. Pour 
over the whole the juice of three oranges. Set aside for an 
hour and serve with milk or cream. 

155 



CAKES. 



CAKE. 

Take one-half cupful of wheat and soak in one cupful of 
water for six hours. Then mash the wheat as fine as pos- 
sible, add to it twelve blanched almonds, chopped, one table- 
spoonful of pine nuts and one tablespoonful of pecans, finely 
ground ; two tablespoonfuls of seeded raisins, cut with scis- 
sors. Mix thoroly and spread on a dish to the thickness of 
half an inch. Cover it with the frothing of one tgg and 
pour the milk of a cocoanut over it. 

SHORT CAKE. 

Soak the rolled wheat of one cupful in enough water to 
cover for about one hour. Instead of water, fruit juices may 
be used for soaking. Put a thin layer on plate and spread 
your fruit upon it. May be eaten with cream. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Take five tablespoonfuls of seeded raisins, two table- 
spoonfuls of cleaned currants, one tablespoonful each of 
figs, citron, dates and ginger fruit ; chop well and mix thor- 
oly. Add three tablespoonfuls of pine nuts, two tablespoon- 
fuls of blanched almonds, chopped very fine, four table- 
spoonfuls of well-grated cocoanut. Cream three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter with two tablespoonfuls of whole-wheat flour. 
Pour over it all one-half cupful of orange juice and two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Knead into it two table- 
spoonfuls of rice flour and work it well, adding the whites 
of four eggs, well beaten. Roll it out on chestnut flour. 
Cut into squares and dry it in the sun. Serve with whipped 
cream or nut cream. 

156 



CREAMS AND DRESSINGS. 

NUT CREAM. 

Three tablespoonfuls of pine nuts, six blanched almonds, 
four walnuts, one Brazil nut. Grind fine. Add enough 
lemon juice to make a cream and let stand for four hours, 
or over night, before using. This cream may be used in 
connection with any fruit or vegetable salad. 

NUTOL CREAM. 

Two Brazil nuts, five filberts, nine pecans ; grind fine ; 
add one teaspoonful of almond oil ; use as much lemon juice 
as needed to make a cream and set aside for four hours or 
more before using. 

PINE NUT. 

One-half cupful of pine nuts, and one Brazil nut, ground 
fine. Add lemon juice or lemon and orange juice to make 
into a cream. Beat thoroly until smooth and set aside. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

One cupful of pine nuts, ten pecans, grind fine ; mix with 
plenty of orange juice and work it smooth. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

Six Brazil nuts, twelve pecans, one-half cupful pine nuts. 
Grind fine. Use as much pineapple juice as necessary to 
make a thick paste and thin down with grape or orange 
juice. 

APPLE CREAM. 

Cut and grind two apples and mash smooth with the juice 
of one lemon. Grind one-half cupful of pine nuts and add to 

157 



the above. Keep beating until creamy. Set aside or use 
immediately, by adding sweet cream with spice flavor to suit 
taste. 

SWEET CREAM. 

Take one tablespoonful pine nuts, one teaspoonful pecans, 
grind fine and smooth out with one cupful of rich cream. 
Set aside for half an hour. If desired, beat into same one 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

POPPY CREAM. 

Take one tablespoonful each of poppy seeds, pecans and 
filberts ; grind fine ; pour over it one cupful of cream. Beat 
it well. Set aside for any desired time before using. Can 
be used with grains, fruits or vegetables. Flavored with 
fresh pineapple or orange juice it will prove very desirable. 

DECIMAYONNAISE. 

One yolk of an egg beaten thoroly in a cold dish. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil cooled with ice. Keep beat- 
ing vigorously and adding one-half teaspoonful of mustard, 
a good pinch of celery salt, a speck of cayenne pepper, and 
lastly two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. It takes ten min- 
utes of quick work to make it smooth. 

OIL DRESSING. 

Take one tablespoonful of oil. Beat it In a cold dish ; add 
to it the yolk of an egg well beaten. Beat together until 
creamed. Then beat into it one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, a pinch of mustard, dash of cayenne pepper and salt. 

AMINA. 

Mash fine two apples and grind up two tablespoonfuls of 
raisins or pecans. Work smooth. Sweeten with a little 
honey and add, just before using, a pinch of fresh ground 
cinnamon. May be thinned down with rich cream if de- 
sired. 

15S 



EGGS. 

We cannot and do not classify eggs among vegetarian 
foods. They are not a product of vegetables nor a bi-prod- 
uct. Eggs are one of the permissible things. They may 
be used without any particular scruples. When used as 
food one should always use good judgment. At any rate 
they should be resorted to only in their season and in cases 
of emergency. 

With nuts and grain, eggs will prove an ideal food, par- 
ticularly the whites. The yolks may be used with milks and 
creams and can be utilized in the preparation of dressings 
for vegetable salads or milk soups. When using eggs fre- 
quently use quantities of green and sub-acid vegetables. 

YOKOHAMA EGGS. 

Take the yolks of two eggs. Beat until foaming. Salt a 
trifle. Now pour, drop by drop, the juice of one lemon. 
Flavor with a pinch of saffron. Eat with rice soaked in 
milk. 

YOULKA EGG. 

Take the yolks of two eggs. Beat for five minutes. Stir 
into it one pint of sweet milk, dash of salt. Keep beating 
for five more minutes. Flavor with pineapple or any other 
juice. Combines with St. John's bread. 

BEULAH EGG. 

Beat into a froth the whites of two eggs. Add slowly the 
juice of half a lemon. Keep beating for a few minutes. 
Combines with nuts, rice and fruits with good results. Do 
not use milk with such a meal. 

SULTANA EGG. 

Froth the whites of two eggs. Beat them into two finely- 
scraped apples. Beat until smooth and white. Add one 
cupful of cocoanut milk and one tablespoonful of finely- 
ground cocoanut. Flavor with vanilla and cinnamon water. 
Eat with flaked rice. 

159 



SALADS. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Take two raw beets, one raw turnip and one raw carrot 
and grate or grind moderately fine. Mix thoroly, adding 
two teaspoonfuls of ground pinon nuts or walnuts. Use 
lemon juice to season. Salt to taste. Serve upon selected 
raw cabbage leaves trimmed with celery. Any of the dress- 
ings may be used if desired. 

ROYAL SALAD. 

Grind or grate raw beets, carrots, onions and turnips, two 
of each, or cut fine ; double the quantity of raw cabbage. 
Mix it all together. Salt to taste. Sprinkle well with celery 
seeds. Season with lemon ; add two tablespoonfuls of oil ; 
mix thoroly. Serve with whites of two eggs thoroly beaten 
with lemon juice, one lemon to the whites of two eggs. 

FRUTA SALAD. 

Cut fine with scissors fifteen seeded raisins, three prunes 
and one fig, and spread over one-half cupful of mashed 
malted barley, rolled oats or wheat. Pour over it one-half 
cupful of nut cream and let it stand for fifteen minutes be- 
fore serving. 

DELICIA SALAD. 

Slice one apple, two bananas and three prunes. Spread 
over one-half cupful of soaked grain of any kind and serve 
with nut cream. 

VEGEFRUIT. 

Slice two tomatoes, one small onion, the tops of green 
onions, one tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a pinch 

160 



of celery seeds, one tablespoonful of finely-ground Brazil 
nuts, one tablespoonful of olive oil. Serve upon lettuce 
leaves with Cream Mayonnaise. 

JARAH. 

One sliced pear, twelve grapes, one orange, one table- 
spoonful each of finely-ground walnuts and pine nuts. Serve 
with flaked rice in an orange peel, using nut cream, if de- 
sired. 

FIG SALAD. 

Six figs, one datQ and two sweet prunes, finely chopped. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of finely-ground St. John's bread 
(locust fruit), and the juice of two persimmons. Served 
with flaked tapioca and rice makes a meal. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Cut fine one head of lettuce, two onions, two tomatoes. 
Chop up one cupful of fresh sweet peas and two tablespoon- 
fuls of peanuts. Serve on lettuce leaves covered with pars- 
ley and Decimayonnaise. 

SALSIFY SALAD. 

Take two roots of salsify (oyster plant), scrape, holding 
same under water; slice thin and salt it thoroly. Let stand 
in salt for half an hour. Shake thoroly for a few minutes ; 
drain off salt water. Throw the slices thru cold water two 
or three times quickly. Take cabbage or lettuce, shred 
very fine and spread upon platter. Over this spread 
bleached celery, finely cut or split, and on top of that put a 
layer of the above prepared salsify. Sprinkle with paprika 
or a little cayenne pepper. And cover with Decimayon- 
naise. 

RAW SALAD. 

Raw spinach and watercress in equal proportions and a 
small bunch of parsley all chopped together and served with 
mayonnaise^ or French dressing on shredded lettuce. 

161 



CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel and cut crosswise into very thin slices four medium- 
sized green cucumbers; lay into large bowl and mix thor- 
oly with one teacupful salt. Cover and let stand one hour, 
then wash quickly in two waters to remove salt. Mix two 
tablespoonfuls lemon juice with one cupful thick, sweet 
cream and pour over the sliced cucumbers. The soaking 
of cucumbers in salt for one hour effectually removes the 
poisonous acids which so frequently cause cholera morbus. 
Serve cucumbers on lettuce leaves garnished with cress and 
parsley. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Wash and break the leaves from two large lettuce heads. 
Lay in a platter and pour over suitable dressing. Garnish 
with sliced tomatoes and finely-chopped onion tops. 

FRENCH FRUIT SALAD. 

Peel and slice thinly two navel oranges ; add same amount 
of sliced pineapple and three tablespoonfuls finely-chopped 
almonds. Serve with mayonnaise dressing, fruit juices or 
whipped cream. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Slice fine two raw potatoes, one small turnip, a carrot, 
two onions, one cucumber. Add one beet, finely grated, 
three tablespoonfuls of oil, a pinch of celery seeds and the 
juice of two lemons. Mix it well and serve on lettuce leaves 
garnished with plenty of parsley. 

ONION SALAD. 

Slice fine two onions, one small bunch of radishes, one 
turnip, and mix well. Add two tablespoonfuls of finely- 
ground peanuts and a little oil with lime juice. Serve on 
large cabbage leaves sprinkled with celery leaves and pinch 
of savory. 

162 



SOUPS. 

GRAIN-TOMATO SOUP. 

Take two fresh tomatoes, mash them thru colander and 
pour the juice gradually into a bowl containing one cupful 
of milk. Pour the whole over a bowl containing crushed 
rice or rolled wheat. 

ONION SOUP. 

Grind fine two onions and press out all the juice. Add 
to it four finely-sliced tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls of finely 
ground pine nuts, and the beaten white of an Qgg. Eat 
with any grain. 

MILK SOUP. 

Soak for an hour one cupful of flaked rice in one pint of 
milk, a pinch of salt. When ready for use add a cupful of 
tomato juice and celery salt. Sliced carrots with walnuts, 
served on lettuce with cress, will make an ideal meal. 

GARLIC SOUP. 

Grate one clove of garlic into one pint of sweet milk, add 
two tablespoonfuls of blanched raw peanuts, finely ground. 
Let it all stand for one-half hour or more. Strain it thru a 
sieve and pour upon flaked corn. Season with a pinch of 
salt and a dash of cayenne pepper or curry. 

Instead of corn any of the flaked cereals or pulses may 
be used. For good results it is best to put a small quantity 
of the flakes in a colander and pour the milk soup over it 
two or three times. Then put flakes into plate and lastly 
the soup over it. This will make the flakes fluffy. 

163 



CEREAL SOUP. 

Take a cupful of any kind of rolled or crushed grain or 
cereal. Pour enough water or sweet milk over it to more 
than cover it. Let it stand for two or more hours. Take 
juice of fruits or a quantity of finely chopped vegetables to 
flavor with. Now thin it down with as much milk as desir- 
able to make it a soup. Before serving add a dash of cay- 
enne pepper, celery salt and salt to suit taste. 

Do not mix fruits with vegetables if you desire good re- 
sults. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Take a cupful of finely chopped and bruised celery, and 
the juice of one onion. Pour one pint of milk over it while 
stirring and let it stand for several hours. Now take a cup- 
ful of rice flakes or flaked peas, put them into colander and 
pour well salted cold water over them three or four times, 
using- the same water again and again. Now put as much 
of the flakes into soup bowl, adding a little parsley and pour 
the soup on it. Season with celery salt or cayenne pepper. 

NUT SOUP. 

One cupful of ground chestnuts, and one-half cupful of 
finely ground raw peanuts. Pour over it a little more than 
to cover with either milk or any desired fruit or vegetable 
juice. Let it stand for an hour or more. Now thin down 
to the consistency of soup with either sweet milk or butter- 
milk. (Buttermilk during summer season preferred.) Have 
the soup bowls rubbed with garlic. Put in the flaked rice, 
or any other cereal you like, as oatmeal flakes, rolled wheat, 
crushed barley. Season with a dash of nutmeg and cayenne 
pepper. 

AN ENDLESS VARIETY OF SOUPS 

may be made by using different kinds of nuts to make stock 
with and the juices of veg^etables, except rhubarb and toma- 
toes, which should be added when served and not allowed to 
stand. 

164 



IMPORTANT HINTS. 

Whenever fruit juices are used in a soup it is well to use 
nutmeg, mace or other spices to give it a mild flavor. 

When using vegetables it is best to rub the soup plate 
with a little garlic. 

The beaten white of egg stirred thoroly into the soup just 
before serving will make it more palatable, and very nour- 
ishing. 

Use up the well beaten yolk of eggs in nut creams, sauces 
or dressings. 

Soak bay leaves in v/ater for several hours and use the 
liquids for flavoring soups. 

Finely chopped parsley also plays an important part in 
soup-making. 

To have good results in preparing raw foods, it is well to 
first decide upon a menu. Then prepare stock for your 
soup. If you desire to serve consomme or bouillon you can 
use the dregs of your soup as a base for your symposia by 
simply adding such nuts and grain flakes as you prefer. 

Always prepare the things required for salad beforehand 
so that ''leavings" may be used in symposia. 

If you have white of eggs for which you have no use beat 
them and add to the soup just before serving. 

If yolk of eggs are left over use them in either symposias 
or nut creams. 

All nut creams, sauces and dressings should be thinned 
down with sweet cream just before serving. 

In raw food dinners the juice of pineapples, lemons and 
oranges may be used for flavoring when vegetables, grains 
and nuts are to be the body of meals. 

When fruits, cereals and nuts are decided upon for a 
meal, the juice of garlic, onion or rhubarb may be used. 
Use no savories with fruits. Confine yourself lo spices and 
other flavors. 

Small fruits like strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, 
currants and gooseberries may be used with either a vege- 
table or fruit meal. 

Remember, that the body, to keep it in good humor, 
needs change in diet, not only in accordance with the sea- 
son, but it calls for even more frequent change. 

165 



SEASONABLE AND ECONOMIC STUDIES. 

In arranging a menu we should bear in mind that we 
must be governed by the products of the seasons and as fur- 
nished by the home market. 

The home products of the season must be the principal 
part for a menu and make up the deficient part out of 
grains or cereals and dairy foods. Thus, if springtime 
furnishes us asparagus, dandelions, lettuce, radishes, Vv^ater- 
cress, green onions, mushrooms and spinach we make up 
our menu accordingly, and use just enough of grains or 
cereals, pulses and nuts as are needed to make a palatable 
meal. 

In winter we use. largely grain and such vegetables and 
fruits as are hardy enough to withstand decay. Nuts are 
used in large quantities with the grains. Anything raised 
in hot-houses should be used for garnishing only and eaten 
only to that extent. 

In summer time no nuts, grains or cereals should be used, 
if possible, as fresh corn and potatoes will take their place. 

In autumn we should make use of all the perishable 
fruits, using grains sparingly and nuts only for a tonic. 

Soup, symposia and salad are the three principal dishes 
and sufficient for an ordinary dinner. 

Vegetable salads, as well as fruit salads, should be made 
of fresh or raw articles. Nuts should be used for dressings 
only. 

Beets, carrots, turnips, etc., should be grated, never 
chopped. 

Apples and pears should be grated, too, and soaked in 
orange, pineapple or other fruit juices, served with whipped 
cream. 

All other fruits and vegetables should be chopped in a 
bowl. 

Lettuce and parsley should be cut fine with scissors. 

Only when fruits or vegetables are intended for soup or 
symposias they should be chopped in a grinder. 

A meal consisting of three principal dishes, to which at- 
tention and care has been given, will give more satisfaction 
than an elaborate spread. 

166 



Two meals is all that a mature person requires, one of 
which is to be the principal meal with attention and good 
selection. 

Lunches should be very plain, as the dinner will then 
be the more appreciated. 

Have a good line of savories, spices and flavors, and 
use them in their proper way. 

Never use tinware in your kitchen ; keep only enameled 
porcelain, aluminum and stoneware. 

Table setting during springtime should be of red decora- 
tions, in summertime the settings should be of bluish tint. 
The autumn table setting should consist largely of yellow 
and golden. The winter season calls for pure white with a 
suggestion of green. 

Use no cut flowers on tables, as they suggest sickness and 
funerals; use potted plants and fruit decorations. 

Pulses and mushrooms are used to build up an impov- 
erished system, but care must be taken not to use them 
as a regular food, but simply as a change of diet for ten 
days at a time, and until the desired result has been at- 
tained. The same is true of a fruit diet or an exclusive 
vegetable diet. 

FURTHER INFORMATION 

you will find in the monthly magazine The Mazdaznan. 
It makeS' it a point to call your attention to the change of 
seasons and gives hints for every ensuing month. Tells 
you how to make your selection of food and how to con- 
duct yourself otherwise in order to obtain the best results. 
The object of the magazine is to act as a reminder for the 
reason that it is not knowledge we lack, but the need of 
being reminded of our requirements. 

The Mazdaznan takes up the dietary questions and calls 
attention to the medicinal value of certain vegetables in 
their respective seasons in order to obtain the magic 
results for which they have been intended by nature for our 
good. Bear in mind that there is a time of feasting and a 
time of fasting. 



167 



MENU. 

BILL OF FARE FOR A SIMPLE LIFE. 
CHRISTMAS WEEK. 

First Day. 

Breakfast — Wine glassful of Vermouth Cordial. 
Lunch — Apple Pudding and Sauce. 

Dinner — Cream Soup, Symposia a la Sultana. Nut 
Salad. Breadsticks. 

Second Day. 

Breakfast — Orange Juice. 

Lunch — Apple Souffle with Shredded Cocoanut. Tap- 
ioca Pudding. 

Dinner — Barley Soup, Symposia, Fruit Salad, Fruit Cake. 
Wisdom Drink. 

Third Day. 

Breakfast — Grated Apples. 
Lunch — Banana Salad with Grated Cocoanut. 
Dinner — Rice Soup, Macaroni a la Royal. Nut Salad. 
Tart Apple Juice. 

Fourth Day. 

Breakfast — Orange Juice. 
Lunch — Apple Souffle and Rice. 

Dinner — Macaroni Soup, Symposia a la Simple. Nut 
Salad. Custard Pie. 

Fifth Day. 

Breakfast — Hot Lemonade. 
Lunch — Corn Fritters and Vegetable Salad. 
Dinner — Vegetable Soup, Symposia a la Famille. Vege- 
table Salad. 

168 



Sixth Day. 

Breakfast — Linden Tea. 
Lunch — Apple Salad and Tapioca. 

Dinner — Rice Soup, Fruit Salad. Macaroni and Cheese. 
Cup of Coffee. 

Seventh Day. 

Breakfast — Oranges. 
Lunch — Rice with Cream Sauce. 

Dinner — Potato Soup, Symposia with Sauce. Potato 
Salad. Bread and Cheese. Rice Pudding. Tea. 

THE CHRISTMAS SEASON 

Generally lasts for two weeks, taking in the New Year's 
week, and is considered as the longest holiday season, where 
feasting seems to know no bounds, and where we may break 
over the rules, providing we keep within reasonable bounds. 
We want the best nuts, fruits and beverages. We want 
nice and dainty dishes. Of everything the very best. Even 
the decorations should play an important part. It is self- 
understood that the home should undergo thoro over- 
hauling. Rapp-trapp is to be removed. The needy should 
be rememibered and given an opportunity to make use of 
what we really do not. If we can make lonely hearts happy 
we should do so by all means at this season, a time of great 
expectation. Then our dishes will taste by far better, and 
partaken of in a spirit of great satisfaction ; the food and 
drink will turn into great blessing and the healing of our 
shortcomings, physical as well as mental. 

Raw foods, as well as baked and cooked foods are now 
seasonable, hot as well as cold, and wherever occasion de- 
mands it stimulants of a mild nature are permissible. 

MENU FOR WINTER SEASON. 

First Day. 
Breakfast — Hot Water or a small cup of Herb Tea. 
Lunch — Cream Tomato Soup and Bread. 
Dinner — Vegetable Soup, Vegetable Salad. Poached Egg 
and Bread. Chestnut Drink. 

169 



Second Day. 

Breakfast — Barley Drink. 

Lunch — Vegetable Salad with Dressing and Bread. 
Dinner — Barley Soup, Symposia, Nut Salad. Apple Pie. 
Cocoa. 

Third Day. 

Breakfast — Vermouth Tea in thimble cups with a slice of 
Lemon. 

Lunch — Cottage Cheese Sandwich and Ripe Olives. 

Dinner — Vegetable Soup, Macaroni and Browned Sauce, 
Beet Salad. Triscuit with Apple Souffle. Roseleaf Tea. 

Fourth Day. 

Breakfast — Hot Water with a pinch of Salt. 
Lunch — Bean Soup and Bread. 

Dinner — Rice Soup, Royal Symposia, Ripe Olives. Po- 
tato Salad. Custard Pie. Catnip Tea, 

Fifth Day. 
Brmkfast — Oranges and one Fig. 
Lunch — Flaked Rice and Cream. 

Dinner — Tapioca Pudding, Fruit Salad with Dressing, 
Slice of Bread, Fruit Cake and Sauce. 

Sixth Day. 
Breakfast — Grated Apple. 
Lunch — Juice of two Oranges. 

Dinner — Apple Souffle, Triscuits. Apple Pudding with 
Sauce. 

Seventh Day. 

Breakfast — Chestnut Drink. 

Lunch — Raisins and Blanched Almonds, Flaked Rice. 
Dinner — Macaroni and Cheese. Nut Salad. Cake. 
Lemonade. 

WINTER SEASON 

Is a time of great activity, mental as well as physical. 
Good, wholesome, substantial food is to be preferred. We 
find in grains, nuts, fruits and vegetables all we need. It 
all depends upon our selection and the proper combina- 

170 



tlons. It is not wise to eat too heavily nor too hastily. 
Take your time. When tired from overwork, we will 
find a bath before our dinner the best tonic. To keep 
our windows in the bedchamber open during sleep will be 
of great benefit to us, and aid digestion as well as tone 
up the nerves. We are to use plenty of bedding, but it 
must be of the lightest texture, while our nightgowns 
should be linen. A good, clean, comfortable bed and a 
well ventilated room is as necessary to the recuperation of 
the organs of the body as clean dishes and proper selected 
foods. 

The moment we notice a negative condition in our mental 
or physical state we will do well to abstain from further 
food at once. 

Colds are quickly arrested thru abstinence from food 
and hot baths. 

Make it a point to prepare all your salads raw, and use 
red beets, turnips, carrots, parsnips and potatoes freely 
when of a hard-working disposition, but confine yourself to 
a great deal of fruit if largely m.entally engaged. 

Never change underwear from light to heavy. Wear 
very light underwear, the same as in summer. You will 
never have any colds, nor ever get rheumatism or con- 
sumption. 

LENTEN SEASON. 

After months of feasting and high living, Lenten season 
reminds us of the time for purification, and it is well to 
fast at intervals, followed by a very light and simple diet. 
Those not abstaining from food entirely will do well to 
live upon fruit juices largely, like grapefruit, oranges with 
lemon juice, or apple souffles made from two grated apples 
and the juice of one orange, flavored with a dash of nut- 
meg. Cream may be used with fruit juices. It is well to 
get daily from two to six grapefruits and if hungry eat a 
little matzos, or health sticks made from whole wheat flour 
or rice flour with a small quantity of finely-ground raw 
peanuts. Pineapples should be used sparingly during 
Lenten season. All the tropical fruits as they come should 
be used alternately as tonics and eliminators. Man should 
live in this way for about forty days and then prepare for 

171 



the Easter season, beginning with Palm Sunday, to eat 
very sparingly, but tone up the stomach with absolute fast 
on Good Friday. Saturday should be a day of preparation 
and either that day or Sunday morning should be used as 
the day of regeneration by going out into the country, 
taking a plunge in a running stream and after being dressed 
partake of a glass of good old wine. Going home with re- 
joicing, following one's own method of religious devotion. 

From time immemorial it was a recognized fact, gained 
thru life-long experience and keen observation, that 
Lenten season, or the time preceding the opening of spring, 
was the best and most effective time for the purification 
of the body and the preparing of the same by the use of 
tender herbs and plants containing healing qualities. The 
thurch in Egypt, Babylonia, Syria, India and other coun- 
tries had a perfect calendar of fasting seasons and fast 
days. Even the early church in Christendom laid a great 
deal of stress upon fasting. Civilization has dethroned it, 
consequently disease and disast'^r. 

A fast means that one should abstain from food entirely 
and only quench his thirst with hot water. 

Invalids should use the juice of grapefruits, or use grape 
juice with boiling hot water. 

Others again fare well on different herb teas, from 
barks, roots, blossoms or leaves. One should use the 
young shoots of springtime, the tender bark of the cherry, 
plum, willow, the roots of sarsaparilla, orris, sassafras, 
dandelion, leaves of the violet, dandelion, yarrow, sorrel, 
watercress ; blossoms of the violet, rose, lilac, cherry. 

Live strictly and abstain from heating foods and drinks 
for forty days, and thy days will be long in the land, par- 
ticularly so if you raise your mind in thanksgiving to the 
terrestrial parenthood, and in honor to father and mother 
devote a few moments in reverential devotion. The bless- 
ings of father will thus give thee possessions of the earth 
and a mother's love aid thee in your enjoyments. Unto 
this end let all things prosper. 



172 



EASTER WEEBT. 
. A TIME FOR REASONABLE FEASTING. 

First Day. 

Breakfast — Dandelion Salad. 

Lunch — Lettuce and Poached Egg. 

Dinner — Rice and Cream. Vegetable Salad. 

Second Day. 

Breakfast — Dandelion and Chives. 

Lunch — Cottage Cheese Sandwich, with Cress Salad. 

Dinner — Scrambled Eggs and Bread, Tapioca Pudding. 

Third Day. 

Breakfast — One raw Carrot. 

Lunch — Egg Sandwich with Lettuce and Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Dinner — Farmer's Rice. Cheese Sandwich, Cress Salad. 
Water Crackers. 

Fourth Day. 

Breakfast — One raw Carrot. 
Lunch — Beet Tops Salad and Gems. 
Dinner — Vegetable Soup. Nut Salad. Bread. Mus- 
tard Leaves or Cress. 

Fifth Day. 
Breakfast — Glass of Hot Water. 
Lunch — Noonday Prayer. 

Dinner — Raw Egg with a dash of Salt and Cayenne 
Pepper and Thanksgiving in your heart. 

Sixth Day. 

Breakfast — Sponge bath before sunrise, or bathing in 
dew. Take a long walk ; meditating. 

Lunch — Raw Rhubarb Salad on Lettuce. 

Dinner — One Egg fried in Butter with Lettuce and 
two Triscuits. 

Seventh Day. 

Breakfast — A walk and cold plunge. Small glass of 
Old Wine. . 

173 



Lunch — Scrambled Eggs with Chives and Matzos. 

Dinner — Vegetable Consomme. Vegetable Salad. Mac- 
aroni and Mushrooms with Tart Sauce. Thimbleful of 
Wine. 

Easter Week is followed by six weeks of hard labor, 
outings, sports and feasting. Use the products of the 
season and make up deficiencies and cravings for other 
foods very sparingly. Eggs should be eaten in large 
quantities. Oils to be used in salad only. Fresh butter, 
particularly sweet butter, to be used upon all occasions. 
For five weeks have mushroom sauces on rice. Get all 
the greens the market offers. If your stomach kicks up 
and won't behave after you have tried to be good, eat 
spinach in large quantities with just a dash of cayenne 
and salt and enough lemon juice to cover the dish. 
Use no grains, cereals, nuts, oils or butter and eggs for 
three days. Simply stuff on spinach and other greens. 
After that take for several mornings a tablespoonful of 
fresh pineapple juice and eat regular courses. 

Remember to confine yourself largely to home-grown 
victuals. 

Make it a Rule to break away from cooked dishes as 
much as possible, and learn to live upon raw foods, 
quickly and easily prepared. This season will prove the 
best to gradually grow into the habit of a simple life. 
Expose the body by degrees to the air and sunshine. 
Learn to live upon the produce of your own climate and 
local market, using foreign-grown fruits and vegetables 
merely as eliminators or when tonic is absolutely neces- 
sary. The simpler we live the better for us. 

Whatever you do, let it be done gradually and follow 
the still, small voice conjointly with judgment and reason. 
Easter season, or the early springtime, is most conducive 
to the eradication of diseases, growing in health and 
strength with the advance of the season. But we must 
be reasonable and watch nature; follow in her footsteps 
and accept from her the tender roots and shoots, the leaves 
and blossoms. 



174 



MENU FOR EARLY SPRINGTIME. 

Strict Observance of the Simple Life at This Particular Season Elhnin- 

ates All Accumulations, Insuring Health and Happiness 

for the Entire Ensuing Year. 

First Day. 

Breakfast — Walk barefoot for five minutes; wash off 
face and hands in morning dew. 

Lunch — Poached Eggs on Toast. Asparagus. Bread 
Sticks. 

Dinner — Macaroni and Mushroom Sauce. Cottage 
Cheese with Chives and Cream. Buttered Toast. Dande- 
lion Salad. 

Second Day. 

Breakfast — Five-minute run on lawn. Thimbleful of 
Violette Tea. 

Lunch — Lenten Chops with Mushroom Sauce. Sliced 
Radishes on Lettuce. Swedish Bread. 

Dinner — Farmer's Rice. Cheese Patties. Hot Biscuit 
with Butter. Cress on Lettuce with Nut Cream. 

Third Day. 

Breakfast — Chase yourself all over the yard and pant 
for breath just for one-half or a minute. 

Lunch — Hard boiled Eggs. Dry Rice Flakes. Mush- 
rooms with Butter gravy. 

Dinner — Deviled Eggs. Bread Sticks. Lettuce Salad 
with Mayonnaise. 

Fourth Day. 

Breakfast — Plunge feet into cold water a dozen times 
and run about the house until dry. 

Ltmch — Fried Eggs. Hot Biscuit. Dandelion Salad 
with Nut Cream. 

Dinner — Rice Soup. Cottage Cheese with Chives. 
Mushrooms and Onion Salad. Fresh Bread. 

Fifth Day. 
Breakfast — Five-minute run with bare feet. 
Lunch — Scrambled Eggs. Matzos Bread. Shredded 
Lettuce with Green Onion Tops and Mayonnaise. 

175 



Dinner — Lenten Chops with Mushroom Sauce. Bread 
Sticks. Dandelion Salad. Rice Pudding. 

Sixth Day. 
Breakfast — Grasshopping and a run thru the house. 
Lunch — Egg Sandwich with Mayonnaise. 
Dinner — Shirred Eggs with Dry Toast. Mushrooms 
with Parsley and Matzos. Vegetable Gelatine with Lemon. 

Seventh Day. 

Breakfast — A run and a bath in dew. 

Lunch — Onion Omelette. Dandelion Salad. 

Dinner — Mushroom Soup. Nut Loaf with Mushroom 
Sauce. Radish Salad. Cottage Cheese with Matzos or 
Triscuit. 

MID-SPRING SEASON. 

First Day. 

Breakfast — Plunge and a walk. 
Lunch — Strawberries with Cream and Rice Flakes. 
Dinner — Asparagus on Toast. Spinach with Egg. 
Glutenbread. Tapioca Pudding. 

Second Day. 

Breakfast — Take a walk. 

Lunch — Macaroni and Cheese. Cress Salad with 
Mayonnaise. 

Dinner — Milk Rivelets or Farmer's Rice. Mushrooms 
with Cream Sauce. Salt Rise Bread. Rice Pudding. 

Third Day. 
Breakfast — Breathing out exercise for five minutes. 
Lunch — Pineapple Juice. Nut Sandwich. 
Dinner — Cottage Cheese Patties with Nut Cream Bread 
Sticks. Dandelion Salad. Tapioca Pudding. 

Fourth Day. 
Breakfast — Empty the lungs to their utmost. 
Lunch — Crackers and Milk. 

Dinner — Asparagus with Cream Gravy. Boiled Rice. 
Lettuce Salad. Custard Pudding. 

17fi 



Fifth Day. 

Breakfast — Grasshopping. Pinch of Powdered Egg 
Shell. 

Limch — Brown Bread with Mushroom Sauce. Lettuce 
Salad. 

Dinner — Rice Patties with Cream Sauce. Spinach and 
Egg. Hot Cakes. Cereal Coffee. 

Sixth Day. 

Breakfast — Dew bath and a pinch of Egg Shell Powder, 

Lunch — Egg Sandwich and Lettuce Salad. 

Dinner — Rice with Indian Curry. Dandelion Salad. 
Coffee. 

Seventh Day. 

Breakfast — Grasshopping and a pinch of Egg Shell 
Powder. 

Lunch — Cottage Cheese Sandwich. Green Onion Salad 
with Nut Cream. 

Dinner — Vegetable Puree. Vegetable Sausage with 
Mushroom Sauce. Asparagus on Toast. Vegetable Gel- 
atine with Lemon Juice. 

Remember that it is well to confine oneself to raw foods 
to a greater extent, using prepared or cooked foods only 
on rainy, damp and cold, chilly days. 

LATE SPRINGTIME. 

First Day. 

Breakfast — Thoro rub over the body. 

Lunch — Strawberry Short Cake and Cream. 

Dinner — Vegetable Consomme. Peas with Potatoes. 
Asparagus with Mint Sauce. Cottage Cheese with Chives. 
Oriental Bread or Bread Sticks. 

Second Day. 
Breakfast — Plunge. Pinch of Brown Sand. 
Lunch — Asparagus on Toast. Sliced Tomatoes on Let- 
tuce. 

Dinner — Vegetable Pot-Pie with Cream Sauce. Cot- 
tage Cheese with Onion Tops. Buttered Toast. Cress 
Salad. Currant Pie. Buttermilk. 

177 



Third Day. 
Breakfast — Full massage and Sunbath. 
Lunch — Triscuit with Cream and Strawberries. 
Dinner — Vegetable Roast with Cream Sauce. Potatoes 
and Cream. Raw Beet Salad. Hot Biscuits. Rhubarb 
Pie. Buttermilk. 

Fourth Day. 

Breakfast — Sunbath. 

Lunch — Bread and Buttermilk. 

Dinner — Carrots and Peas. Potatoes with Cream Gravy. 
Cheese Patties. Boiled Rice with Tomato Sauce. Sliced 
Tomatoes. 

Fifth Day. 

Breakfast — Rolling in grass. Thoro rub. Pinch of 
sand. 

Lunch — Currant Pie. Buttermilk. 

Dinner — Vegetable Roast with Tomato Sauce. Carrots 
with Cream. Potato Salad. Coffee. 

Sixth Day. 

Breakfast — Sunbath. 

Lunch — Strawberries with Cream. Nut Sandwich. 

Dinner — Cream of Pea Soup. Vegetable Fritters with 
Nut Sauce. Baked Potatoes. Carrots with Parsley Sauce. 
Currant Pie. Dish of Icing. 

Seventh Day. 

Breakfast — Grasshopping and pinch of sand. 

Lunch — Fried Eggs. Triscuit. Lettuce Salad. 

Dinner — Potato Cream Soup. Vegetable Roast with 
Tomato Sauce. Tomato Salad with Mint Sauce. Straw- 
berry Short Cake with Whipped Cream. Hot Tea. 

THE LATTER PART OF SPRING 

Gives us an abundance of vegetables and plenty of fruit 
to make our selection from. A little experimenting will 
soon show that it is a pleasure and a great delight to 
find out for oneself the great benefits to be derived from 
the right and careful preparations and combinations. 

178 



Remaining within the limitations of home-growing 
products, using grains and nuts only where absolutely 
necessary in the compounding of palatable dishes, we will 
find it an easy matter to keep well and happy. 

Learn to sleep without gowns and you will not be 
troubled with catarrhs, neuralgia, rheumatism, consump- 
tion and urinary diseases. 

MENU FOR SUMMER SEASON. 

Use Raw Foods Exclusively and Deviate From the Rule Only at Change 
of Weather; When Damp, Chilly or Rainy. 

First Day. 
Breakfast — Cherries. 
Lunck — Strawberry Short Cake. 
Dinner — Cherry Pie. Icing. 

Second Day. 
Breakfast — Hot Lemonade. 

Lunch — Bran Drink and Cottage Cheese Sandwich. 
Dinner — Strawberry Cake with Whipped Cream. 

Third Day. 

Breakfast — Small Berries. 
Limch — Nut Salad and Apples. 

Dinner — Flaked Rice and Cherry Salad with Cake. 
Tea. 

Fourth Day. 

Breakfast — Raspberries. ^ 

Lunch — Apple Souffle and Custard Pie. 

Dinner — Small Berries with Cream. Bread and Tea. 

Fifth Day. 
Breakfast— Hot Water. 
Lunch — Bran Lem.onade. 
Dinner — Rice Flakes. Sweet Corn. Beet Salad. 

Sixth Day. 

Breakfast — Stone Fruits. 
Lunch — Fruit Cake. 

Dinner — Fruit with Bread and Butter. Buttermilk. 

179 



Seventh Day. 
Breakfast — Small Berries. 

Lunch — Cheese Sandwich. Milk with Lemon Juice. 
Dinner — Cream Tomato Sauce. Tomato Salad with 
Mayonnaise. Bread and Butter. Milk or Apple Pudding. 

AUTUMN SEASON. 

First Day. 

Breakfast — A few extra well-drawn breaths. A drink 
or two of Water. 

Lunch — One Apple. One Orange. One Fig. Three 
Almonds. Tablespoonful of Pine Nuts. Crackers. 

Dinner — Fruit Salad. Boiled Egg with Mayonnaise. 
Flaked Rice. 

Second Day. 

Breakfast — A pinch of sand. A few more breaths. 

Lunch — A Pear or Persimmon. Two Dates. Two 
Locusts. Swedish Bread. 

Dinner — Chestnut Soup. Flaked Wheat. Two Apples. 
Six Almonds. Apple Pie. 

Third Day. 

Breakfast — Stretch body and take a few extra breaths 
with a wineglass full of Fruit Juice of any Kind. 

Lunch — One Banana. One Orange. One teaspoonful 
of Pine Nuts. Shredded Wheat. 

Dinner — Banana with Shredded Cocoanut. One Fig. 
Two Dates. Rice with Whipped Cream. Peach Pie. 

Fourth Day. 

Breakfast — Watermelon. 

Lunch — One Carrot and one Beet grated and served 
on Lettuce with Parsley or Onion Top. Oriental Bread. 

Dinner — Flaked Oats with Cottage Cheese. Nut Salad. 
White of Egg with Lemon Juice. Plum Pie. 

Fifth Day. 
Breakfast — Watch the rising of the glorious sun and 
bask in the sunshine. Then take a barefoot walk and a 
glass of hot Lemonade. 

180 



Lunch — Watermelon and Cakes. 

Dinner — Corn Bread with Nut Butter. Beet Salad. 
Turnips with Cream Sauce. Egg Plant Fritters. Tea. 

Sixth Day. 
Breakfast — Muskmelons. 
Lunch — Peach Pie and Cheese Sandwich. 
Dinner — Corn on Cob. Salsify Fritters and Mashed 
Turnips. Watermelon. 

Seventh Day. 

Breakfast — Apples. 

Lunch — Cream Cheese and Crackers. 

Dinner — Apple Souffle. Apple Fritters. Rice and 
Nut Cream. Peach Salad. Bread with Cottage Cheese. 
Plum Pudding with Brandy Sauce. Coffee. 

THE AUTUMN SEASON 

Reminds us of our opportunity in consuming large quan- 
tities of fruits, particularly grapes. In eating grapes for 
medicinal purposes, and that is really the object of our 
eating grapes, we should take our time. Eat slowly, 
masticate them well, but do not swallow the pulp. Grapes 
eaten in large quantities will cure all intestinal troubles, 
dissolve gravel and stone, arrest cancerous and fibroidal 
growths. Used in connection with large quantities of 
fresh milk will cure consumption. Eat every kind of 
fruit and in large quantities, leaving just enough hunger 
to still the same with a crust of bread. 

Do not change weight of underwear with the increase 
of colder weather. Simply eat a trifle hardier foods and 
keep more lively, either with work or in the agitation of 
such amusements that prove an honor to the community. 



181 



DIETARY IN A NUTSHELL. 

HOW TO EAT AND DRINK. 

The sum and substance of all the science of dietetics is 
this : 

When on a fruit diet, you should blend the sweet fruit 
with a smaller percentage of sub-acid or acid fruit. 

When on a vegetable diet, the earth salts which are 
sweet in taste and flavor must be subdued by tL: addition 
of vegetable juices of an acid or sub-acid nature. 

When on a nut diet, the nuts must be thoroly masti- 
cated, and the pulp, absolutely tasteless and gummy, 
should be expelled from the mouth. 

When on a grain diet, the grain must be used raw and 
masticated well, employing the jaws to a great extent, but 
do not swallow more than one-third of the pulp. 

When living on a mixed diet, remember that grain gives 
substance, while the addition of a few nuts occasionally 
or in season adds heat. By using the fruit at one time 
and the vegetables at another, they will furnish the 
eliminative tendencies. 

Live on grains and vegetables for a day or more, then 
alternate with fruits for the same period, more or less, in 
accordance to the condition of the organic action. 

If the system is filled with acids it is best to abstain 
from fruits. If laden with salts and minerals, then it is 
best to abstain from vegetables until the system is ad- 
justed to a greater degree. 

Never cater to artificial v/ants. They are mere sugges- 
tions of abnormal conditions that enslave our higher 
natures and burden our life energies with unnecessary 
trouble. There is no possibility to overcome these unless 
we retrace our steps and return to nature with a humble 
spirit and a contrite heart. 

Learn how little it is necessary to eat and how much 
less you need to drink, as thereby you will learn the 
secret of the science of right living, which is the key that 

182 



unlocks the problem of all questions of life — the question 
of the economy of the Infinite thru individual elfort. 

Appetite is the result of uncontrolled senses and a 
disease of organic intelligence. 

Stop eating for a time and nature will do the rest. 

Hunger alone, following a good day's work, determines 
perfect digestion of that food which is least inviting to a 
pampered palate, but of value to him who knows of its 
filling the bill. 

The greater percentage of liquid water of fruits and 
vegetables is superior to the water of mineralizing tenden- 
cies, for the reason that by virtue of an evolutionary life 
the liquids of vegetation embody the intelligencies of 
superiority, also by experiences in the realm of growth 
which entertain eliminating tendencies the best of waters 
do not possess. 

Nature's process of distilling water can never be 
equaled by scientific innovations, as nature has a chemi- 
cal laboratory at its command that is guided by unseen 
hands and directed by a mind which alone can claim 
mastership. All else is mere imitation, full of error and 
ignorance. If you need liquid pure and undefiled, take 
fruits or vegetables in their natural state and you will 
learn to glorify Him who has created and formed it so 
wisely. 

Whenever overcome by thirst we shall know we do not 
exhale enough and that we inhale too short a current of 
breath to induce oxidizing of the blood, consequently we 
do not eat our food attentively and with discrimination. 
The organism contracts consummative tendencies, creating 
the thirst for liquids, which liquids, when taken, dampen 
the consummation temporarily, but at the same time 
create gases detrimental to organic action. 

By abstaining from condiments, artificial sweets and 
seasonings, eating only grains, fruits, vegetables and nuts 
as nature furnishes them, we never thirst for water or 
hquid of any form, as breath will fill the bill. 

The truest and noblest effort of man is to outgrow the 
animal and recognize the human; to conquer all the tend- 
encies of brute nature. To this end our attention must 

183 



be directed toward the generative action of the nervous 
system at large, whose office is to manifest the operations 
of the mind by inductive and conductive actions into the 
muscular or expressing part of being and carry out the 
desires of our innermost being. To insure such a process 
one must adhere to the simplicity of that life which asks 
by performance of hard labor for ''daily bread," even 
tho it be "crumbs that fall from the rich man's table," 
and is refreshed by wine that flows from the "jug filled 
with water." Living thus and working unselfishly, taking 
interest in all things and using judgment in one's selection 
of labor whenever nature demands change, observing as to 
food ''each kind in its season" as "each season brings forth 
its kind," we shall answer the purpose of life and may 
safely look into the future before us. 

WORK AND OVERWORK. 

There is such a thing as overwork, which means work 
performed in a position limiting the exercise of the body 
and change of mind. 

We never do too much work where we make a change 
in occupation for the performance of some other duty. 

We condemn ourselves if we look upon labor as the end 
of things or the only means sustaining soul and body. 
Under such conditions our labors become a burden and a 
curse. The greatest of blessings come to him who per- 
forms his daily work in the spirit of duty and honor. 

Work is nature's means to exercise the body directed 
by mind to insure satisfaction unto the soul. 

All work of usefulness to the laborer and for the good 
of all is the only means of salvation from th'^' curse of 
ancestral tendencies, and the path that leadeth unto the 
goal of final emancipation. 

It rests the body and mind to frequently change attitude 
in the performance of our labors. 

The digestion and assimilation of foods does not depend 
upon our knowledge of the organs of the body nor upon 
chemical compounds of foods, but the selection of foods 
as nature furnishes them. 

184 



MASTICATION THE KEY TO DIGESTION. 

Thoro mastication of food insures a greater percentage 
in digestion and assimilation. Thus masticate thoroly, 
whether it be solids or liquids. 

In masticating our food well the absorbents of the 
mouth, tongue and palate concenter all of the aromatic or 
spirit substances of foods, thereby aiding and increasing 
the insalivation of foods for digestive action. 

What you miss to absorb by virtue of mastication you 
never get after the food reaches the stomach. Food 
proves a vitalizer and energizer only then when absorbed 
by continued and well-directed exercises of the jaws. 

The sense of taste, harmonized and in common with all 
the senses directed by reason, is the guide unto selection, 
mastication, digestion and assimilation of foods which will 
prove of benefit and wholesomeness to the body, mind, 
soul and spirit in general. 

We must be able to taste the food with our mouth and 
retain such taste until the food, by mastication, becomes 
tasteless. It then may be swallowed and left to the 
stomach to draw from it whatever soil substance it may 
retain for metallization. 

It is not the stomach, liver and kidneys that need our 
consideration, but the mouth, which is the feeding station 
of our organism. Masticate your food to such an extent 
that the fluids furthering digestion will form readily and 
assimilation is insured. 

Thru proper mastication you become thoughtful, and 
as like begets like, you retain the good thought of the 
food. 

FOOD FOR THE MIND. 

If digestion is poor, eat slow but sure. 

Slowly and thoroly masticated food saves one-half of the 
digestive operation and insures tenacity to life. 

The root of all the evil to the stomach is that man 
won't masticate his food with bliss. 

Take time to eat and salivate your food. It saves 
digestion, makes health and turns complexion good. 

185 



In a fair state of health, whole wheat bread and milk 
or whole wheat gruel and milk is the cheapest and most 
nutritive fare, assuring a clear complexion and .a witty 
mind. 

You can't drink water on top of a fruit dinner. If you 
do, then you have to make another experience. 

There are men and women who can eat and drink any- 
thing, and if you were to follow suit it would be like 
an idiot seeing a fire-eater, go home and fill his mouth 
with hot coals and then die. 

Keep away from soda and mineral or charged waters 
in general. Use fruits and use them freely. After a 
good, frugal fruit dinner do not forget to take a morsel 
of bread. 

The cause of defective teeth and a poorly developed 
bone structure is due to the lack of phosphates, nitrates 
and salts which are supplied largely thru food compounded 
from grains. Bolted flour preparations lack all the essen- 
tial ingredients. 

''Not what entereth the body defileth man but what 
becomes of it." That is just it — what becomes of it or 
what we digest of it. If we do not digest it then it not 
only turns into waste, but taxes the digestive organs to 
an extent, defiling the body with disease-breeding germs. 

Of course you want the white grapes, the seedless 
green for your liver and rheumatic troubles, but if 
catarrhal then the blue ones are best, and in most cases no 
grapes at all should be used, particularly if hay feverish 
or asthmatic. 

No matter as to the amount of proteids, nitrogen, fats 
and carbonates your dishes contain, if they lack the re- 
quired salts and minerals which constitute the body of 
the foodstuff, you may eat and eat ad infinitum and still 
suffer from nervous disease that impairs stomach, liver, 
kidneys, intestines, and lastly the general constitution, call- 
ing to the surface all the germs of inherited tendencies 
and of prenatal influence inviting disease upon disease. 

A well-poised mind with a body under perfect control, 
assimilating every morsel of food partaken of with thank- 
fulness of heart, requires daily no more than one-third 

186 



of a pound of wheat, raw or made into gruel, one pound 
of milk or its equivalent of cheese in season, and a, 
banana or other fruits, alternated by an equivalent of 
vegetables in season. According to locality and conditions 
such food would vary between five and ten cents a day. 
He who makes greater demands than these simply has to 
rustle to keep up imaginary appearances, but remember, 
no man can look into your stomach, but they do see what 
you wear on your back. 

If food, as contended by science, gives strength and 
vitality, how is it that in times of prosperity and plenty, 
when mankind fairly gorges upon food, more diseased 
conditions are brought forth, consequently greater dis- 
satisfaction, more troubles, and more weakness and lazi- 
ness are apparent than in times of hardship and when 
food is scarce? 

If it is true that the food we eat builds up our tissues, 
makes our flesh and gives us blood, then if a man sub- 
sists on a pound of pork a day, thus consuming three 
hundred and sixty-five pounds of it in a year, retaining 
the substance of the pork in his system, what is he at 
the end of the year — man or hog? 

If man perpetuates his body, consequently his life, by 
subsisting on the animal kingdom, claiming to gain nour- 
ishment and substance from the same, what does he 
perpetuate and whom does he work, labor, rustle and 
slave for? 

If it be true that fish make brain, hogs build up nerve, 
beef makes muscle, as scientists contend, then it won't be 
necessary for us to advocate education but rather the 
feeding of the faces desirous to reach their hearts' con- 
tent through the stomach. 

If beef builds muscle, why not stuflc on it instead of 
going through physical culture and gymnastics, but if the 
latter give muscle, what is the use in eating the beef? 

If hog's flesh gives nerve, why take nerve tonics and 
nervines to unnerve what the pork has built? Which is 
which ? 

Scientists claim a great deal for oysters and clams. 
They are supposed to build brain cells. It would be well 

187 



for them to fill up on clams and prove their brain cell 
development by getting to work and earning an honest 
living, creating commodities of life, or else keep their 
clams shut. 

On the one hand science tells us of foods building the 
brain, foods for nerves, and foods for muscles ; on the 
other hand they advise exercise for the muscle, nerve and 
brain. If the former does the work of the latter, what do 
we want to exercise for, yet if exercise is to do the work, 
what do we want to eat for? This is a dog-gone of a 
science. 

Never entrust the noblest of life unto another lest sor- 
row and shame be your reward. This body, as a temple 
of the living God, of which we are the entrusted keeper, 
must never expect others to take our place, as thereby we 
prove traitors to our cause and must suffer due penalty 
thru sickness, sin and struggle. 

As soon as we become inclined to use stimulants or 
condiments to relish food it is high time to give our 
digestive organs rest from food. 

The prosperity of professionals is a sign of man's 
degeneracy, a sign of the times foretelling the deterioration 
of the race and a voice of warning unto him who awakens 
to the responsibilities of life with a desire at heart to re- 
trace his steps. 

Suggestions of an evil-directing nature will reflect upon 
our paths, forming pitfalls for our uncertain steps, break- 
ing our bones and shattering our mind. 

Daintiness and prettiness seldom denote intelligence, 
altho intelligence may use either as a means to an end. 

By knowing ourselves and the body which constitutes 
our being we shall appreciate the attributes of nature and 
ever strive to pay tribute unto ourselves by sacrificial 
offerings of the best we can find in life. 

Science means to know, yet knowledge is of no value 
where we cannot put it into practice. To do the right 
thing IS better than to preach It. 

Wise is he indeed who learns thru observation rather 
than by experience. Experiences necessitate experiment- 
ing only too often ending in disastrous results. Nine- 

188 



tenths of our troubles, sickness, sin or sorrow are due to 
experiment and experience. He who has eyes to see let 
him see, while he who has ears to hear let him hear. 
Be attentive; keep eyes and ears wide open and you 
shall know the rest. 

The autumn is a time of adjusting oneself, and it is 
best not to allow any of the old suggestions to go over 
into the winter. Take very hot baths or vapor baths twice 
a week for five weeks, while living largely on fruits or 
vegetables. Stop using tea, coffee or water. 

Sleep in your Adamic gown, but change bed sheets and 
pillow cases frequently, at least twice a week, and note 
the difference in health of body and health of mind that 
open up the avenues of wealth. 

In case your stomach is sour and your breath is bad, 
wash mouth with five drops of oil of eucalyptus and two 
drops of sassafras oil to half a tumblerful of hot water. 
Rinse well, and the last mouthful swallow. Then breathe 
out with lips parted and whisper words with h, like ahu, 
aha, haha, and give your trouble the haha. 

The reason fruits disagree with you is that you do not 
eat them right. In the first place, two kinds of fruits 
are required in your case. Next, you should eat your 
fruits with bread and butter. And again, don't you dare 
to drink anything unless it be a demitasse of hot black 
coffee, made very mild a la drip. 

Vegetables prove too heavy for you because you pre- 
pare them in water instead of cooking them in their own 
juice and additional oils or butter. Some vegetables 
should not be boiled. Because of too much starch they 
should be baked, and thus change them into dextrinous 
foods. 

Keep your feet clean, and keep them in good socks. 
Wear silken cloths next to the skin, then finest linen, then 
let up on it and take to lisle or mercerized stockings alone, 
leaving off all the cloths. Be sure that you rub between 
the toes each morning and at night. This will do more 
for your stomach and set its nature right than all your 
extensive studies in anatomy, in chemistry, and all the other 
twaddle and. blight. 

189 



POINTERS TO INVALIDS. 

There are practically only three classes of invaHds : 
First, those who are poisoned thru overaccumulation of 
acids caused by improper food selection and unscientifically 
compounded dishes. These must abstain from all fruits and 
begin to use vegetables containing largely earth salts — 
potato peels, chopped fine and cooked with butter in a 
double boiler until tender, adding onions cooked in butter 
and cream, will prove an ideal food. 

Second, those who are mineral poisoned or starch poi- 
soned, owing to the use of too many mineral or salt foods 
and starchy dishes, lacking the acids for counteraction. 
Abstain from vegetables and prepared cereals. Use 
bananas mashed in cream, grated apples v/ith cream or 
stewed in butter (but no water) ; also baked bananas or 
apples and barley gruels with butter and cream. 

Thirdly, those who have led a riotous living, by loading 
the system with acidulous foods at one time and mineral 
or salt foods excessively at another time until the stomach 
refuses to separate the foods and classify them intelligently 
for digestion and assimilation. Here a fast of thirty-six 
hours, every three to four days, becomes necessary, using 
a slice of lemon, pineapple, apple, orange or grapefruit to 
quench the thirst, living on small quantities of wheat gruel 
after fasts. Use onions boiled in butter and cream, sea- 
soned with parsley and cayenne, for each m.eal. 

The secret of good health is not only moderation, but 
occasional abstinence. 

In either of the three cases it is always advisable to 
abstain from food until hungry and when hungry to make 
it a point to confine oneself to the class one favors. 

Fleshy people are apt to be salt or starch poisoned. 
Wiry people, acidulous and nervous people are blood- 
poisoned, due to overaccumulation of salts and acids. 

190 



HINTS TO SUFFERERS 

In the following pages we briefly state a few additional 
hints which will suffice the wise to use in connection with 
other advice given at will and cannot fail to assist 
Nature in assuring speedy recovery from all the ailments 
of the body, which are due to nothing less than ignorance 
in the selecting and use of proper food-stuffs and remedial 
agents in connection with food-stuffs so necessary to im- 
prove nutrition. 

Condiments of all kinds, properly and scientifically pre- 
pared, were considered wholesome and brought to a test 
for centuries, and they will still prove to be the most 
natural and effective of remedial agents, and altho we 
do not wish in any way to reflect upon our pharmacopoeal 
achievements, we will all agree that no man can live on 
medicine, but he can on food, and that food rightly com- 
pounded will assure health, and where there is a disease 
germ spreading, thus crowding the finer network of man's 
constitution, medicated foods will assist nature to adjust 
matters. 

Exposures to heat and cold under unfavorable tem- 
peramental conditions do much in undermining good 
health and a happy disposition. 

The arctic dweller has learned to protect his health by 
adding to his food an extra amount of oil (blubber). In 
case of sickness he simply consumes still more oil, bathes 
in oil, smells burnt oil or becomes oil-smoked until 
"cured." 

The man of the hot climate finds it necessary to use 
spices and condiments in his regular meals, and when dis- 
eased requires extra portions of hot spices, powders the 
body in spices, bathes in them, burns them so as to inhale 
the fumes until he becomes ''fumigated." His chills, 
peculiar to disease in a hot climate, are counteracted by 
extra heavy potions. 

With this knowledge of the blend in the two great ex- 
tremes man may, with additional ingenuity and scientific 
application, soon grasp the true value of nature's efforts in 

191 



showering blessings upon us in the great variety of things 
destined for our use, guided by good judgment. 

CURRY POWDER. 

A valuable mixture of condiments successfully used in 
pulmonary, rheumatic and digestive troubles, where suit- 
able food is used. It must be compounded fresh and not 
bought " ready-made, as the commercial curry powder is 
nothing more than a mixture of cayenne and turmeric, 
and many brands contain large quantities of rice flour and 
salt, others cocoanut and dried garlic. The two latter are 
of good remedial value when used with true Curry 
Powder, Compound curry as follows : Four and one-half 
ounces turmeric, four ounces coriander seed, three ounces 
tellicherry black pepper, one and one-half ounces each of 
English mustard and foenugreek seeds, one ounce each 
decorticated seeds of cardamom and cumin, and cassia 
buds, one-half ounce each of Jamaica ginger, Zanzibar 
cloves, Penang mace, Zanzibar cayenne. Grind fine and 
put up in air-tight tins. Use freely in rice and other grain 
and vegetable dishes suitable for invalids. To the intel- 
lectually or mentally based curry will prove the best 
remedial agent v/hen diseased. When well again curry 
must be discarded from our daily menu. 

SPICED CONDIMENTS 

Are in general use, but the commercial spirit is only too 
apt to lose sight of the value and purpose of medicated 
dishes. For this reason we find the old-fashioned way of 
putting up one's own pickled dishes the only safe way, 
and adding our scientific methods in the selection and 
preparation of these relishes we shall never hereafter be 
entirely without a case of selected medicated foods to 
keep the wolf from our door. 

Green chili, cucumber, artichokes, stringbeans, green 
tomatoes, cauliflower, onions, mushrooms and walnuts are 
most suitable for pickling. 

After cleaning a number of the above mentioned well 
selected articles steep them in a strong brine composed of 
salt and filtered or distilled water. It is best to use stone 
or earthenware. Place all the articles desired for pickling 

192 



into a large colander, set into a larger dish and pour over 
it all boiling hot salt brine. Draw off and repeat the 
treatment every five to ten minutes up to a half dozen 
times. Allow the contents to remain in the last poured 
on brine until cool. Draw off the brine. Bottle the 
selection, and cover with pickling sauce to the very top. 

Make pickling sauce of one part of reboiled cider vine- 
gar and one part aged chianti or Nebiolo vinegar (claret 
vinegar will do, too), add to each pint three bay 
leaves, twelve each of allspice, whole black pepper, 
cloves, one teaspoonful mustard seeds, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Bring to boiling point and pour on the selec- 
tion. 

Another good way is to use one-half of the brine to 
one-half of vinegar. All vinegar must be thoroly fer- 
mented and thrice reboiled before finally boiled for mixing. 

The remaining brine should not be discarded but pre- 
pared with spices and rinds of lemon and citron and bot- 
tled. The latter has been used to great advantage in heart 
troubles, malaria and fevers. 

Spiced condiments will be found of great remedial 
value in the spiritually or morally based. Used in small 
quantities with wholesome foods, particularly baked or 
broiled vegetables, free from additional water, will prove 
a surprisingly beneficial effect in disorders that our 
pharmacopoeal potions could not even phase. When well 
let spiced condiments alone. Should be used only when 
negative. But in cases of severe colds do not use pickled 
condiments. 

GHERKINS. 

Commercial gherkins are practically unfit for medicinal 
purposes. The proper way to prepare them is as follows : 
Select finger-thick green pickles ; wash them well ; place 
them in cold salt brine for eight hours. Take them out 
and dry them with a clean towel. Put them layer upon 
layer into glass jars, adding to each layer the desired 
quantities and kinds of spices and herbs, taking care not 
to use many cloves, if any. Now boil well strained vine- 
gar, adding one tablespoonful of sugar to each pint of 
vinegar. (Cider vinegar or grape vinegar only should 
be used. The better way is to mix claret with vinegar, 

193 



half and half, weeks beforehand and let it stand in a jug 
near the fireplace.) The vinegar should reach the boiling 
point over a quick fire and immediately be poured on the 
gherkins, making sure that the liquid covers the contents 
to the very top. Screw the tops on tight and immedi- 
ately wax, placing jars in a dark, dry, cool place. May 
be used after six vv^eeks. Do not use ground mustard in 
your pickling. All seeds must be used whole. 

The physically based can use gherkins to a great ad- 
vantage when under the weather and a little out of sorts. 

DILL PICKLES 

Rightly prepared can be used to great advantage in dis- 
orders of the digestive organs, particularly the liver and 
where there is starch poisoning. But the secret lies in 
the preparation. Select medium-sized green cucumbers. 
Wash each one of them and rub dry. Slip them gently 
into a tub of boiling hot brine and leave them in for two 
to three hours or until cold. (The brine must be heavy 
enough that a raw egg will keep on top the water.) Now 
put up the cucumbers in an earthenware crock or an old 
whisky barrel, layer upon layer, starting with a layer ot 
grape leaves, dill, then cucumbers, and so on, ending up 
on top with a layer of grape leaves and dill. Bring the 
same salt brine to a boil again. When ice cold pour into 
the vessel filled with cucumbers. When filled to the very 
top, place a porcelain or an earthenware lid on inside of 
vessel and a heavy rock so as to keep contents tight 
and to keep the scum which will form from touching the 
pickles. Whenever scum forms it should be skimmed. 
Vessel must be kept in a cool, dry, dark place. Properly 
done, the dill pickles are ready for use in ten days. The 
brine is used effectively in cases of constipation. 

Dill pickles are of advantage to the physically based 
during the cold season. May be used frequently. Where 
used in excess mustard cucumbers must be used to 
counteract organic disorders. 

MUSTARD CUCUMBERS. 

Select yellow, ripe cucumbers of a fair size. Peel them. 
Cut crosswise into four to six strips each. Take out all 

194 



the seeds. Place them in layers and salt them well. 
Leave them stand over night for eight to ten hours. 
Take them out one by one and dry them with a scrup- 
ulously clean towel. When thoroly dried place them in 
earthenware crock in layers. Over each layer sprinkle 
quite freely, but not too much, whole mustard seeds and 
two bay leaves. When done bring to a boil selected fine 
grape vinegar, just enough to cover the contents of crock. 
Add to each pint of vinegar one tablespoonful of sugar, 
four sticks of cinnamon, eight cloves. Remove cinnamon 
and cloves from vinegar before pouring on the contents 
of the crock. A porcelain plate on top of the contents and 
a clean cloth or heavy paper over top will suffice to keep 
the mustard cucumbers wholesome. Can be put up in 
glass jars. A few thin sliced onions, Bermudas and 
Spanish, over each layer of cucumbers will add to the 
relish. 

Mustard relish may be used to an advantage by the 
three bases, depending entirely upon the condition of the 
trouble. 

TEA FOR INVALIDS. 

The intellectually based should use Japanese garden and 
green tea, first picking. 

The spiritually based Chinese or Oolong and Russian 
tea. 

The physically based will find India, Ceylon, Congou 
and Souchong tea the better. 

When out of sorts or under the weather, nervous or 
negative, chew a pinch of tea leaves. When reduced to 
a pulpy consistency expel. In case the pulp tastes weedy, 
mousy and biting, it is because the tea is tainted and not 
as represented. Use only selected teas for medicinal pur- 
poses. Must be used without cream or sugar. Can be 
used with lemon and rum, arac, or Cognac. 

MILK DIET 

Will be found of great aid in restoring organic disorders. 
To gain good results one must abstain from all foods and 
confine himself to one glass of milk every two hours, 

195 



just as we would feed a babe. When you feel you would 
like something else besides milk eat a grated apple, three 
to four grated almonds, or use a few leaves of lettuce or 
endive. In case you think milk disagrees with you, take 
one-half teaspoonful of charcoal first and sweeten your 
milk with a little honey. Five weeks of milk diet will 
suffice to set one right. Where bowels won't move regu- 
larly use two hot water injections and finish up with an 
after injection of two quarts of hot milk. Expel slowly, 
but do not force yourself. Drink the milk thru a strazv, 
not paper straws. If you have no straw, then be sure 
you sip your milk slowly and thoroly masticate it before 
swallowing. 

LEMON DIET. 

Lemon is one of the few acidulous fruits that can be 
used to a great advantage. In heart, liver, bladder and 
kidney troubles particularly effective. Use the juice of 
one lemon, well salted, one-half hour before each meal 
and the clear juice of one lemon after each meal. When 
hungry place a sHce of lemon on tongue and expel as soon 
as turning bitter. When thirsty use lemon juice. Add 
more lemon juice daily until you can take seven to more 
lemons. Take the juice thru a straw. Always wash 
teeth after using lemons. 

Lemons hold their own nearly all the year round and 
can be used to great advantage as nerve-tonic or a purga- 
tive, depenciing on the combinations made. In cold water 
lemon proves cooling ; in hot water promotes perspiration ; 
well salted raises the heart action thru the mild operation 
of the liver. Taken immediately after a cup of drip 
coffee with a quantity of rich cream it acts as a purga- 
tive. In small quantities oil proves nourishing; lemons 
mixed with oil make a skin food, eradicating skin dis- 
ease, all else being equal ; the same applied to the scalp 
removes dandruffs and stops falling out of the hair ; 
beaten into sweet milk, the juice of one lemon to a glassful 
of milk will eliminate acids from the system and cure 
rheumatism, kidney complaints and bile troubles. In fact, 
the lemon can be utilized in so many ways that it may 
safely be called a universal remedy. 

196 



HINTS OF THE SEASONS. 

WINTER. 

DECEMBER. 

As an indisputable principle the observation of the sea- 
sons and the selection of foods as to the products of time 
will continue to hold good forever, and the more strictly 
we observe this simple, natural rule, the less trouble we 
shall have in knowing just what shall I eat and what shall 
I drink, for the joys of life in a kingdom of God do not 
consist of mere eating and drinking. We shall then more 
fully understand that the food and drink themselves are 
not the defilers of the body, but the results thereof. 



With the advent of cooler nights and colder days the 
average m^an resorts to heavier underwear. This is a sad 
mistake and is one of the principal means of creating colds, 
catarrhs, neuralgia, coughs, fevers and stomach troubles. 
Remember that the home, the office, the shop and store 
are warmed, and only when going outdoors you want 
protection, which is furnished by an overcoat, mantle, 
cape, high collar and frequent ^change of stockings.^ Even 
the use of overshoes and rubbers ought to be decried inid 
only resorted to by those whose vocation is that of stand- 
ing in water or wet places for hours. 

When chilled and negative, or under the weather v/ith 
a suggestion of foreign vibrations not in harmony with 
perfect health, take a tablespoon ful of olive oil, two table- 
spoonfuls of old wine, stir well; three pinches of salt and 
one cupful of boiling water stirred in slowly, and sip. 

There are carrots, turnips, beets and parsnips plenty 
and galore to make nice salads from. With anise, celery 
seeds and caraway or dill these salads always fill the bill. 
Green pai;sley and some onions will the dish improve, and 

197 



adding peppers, green or red, the bowels will move. Snch 
salads always the menu precede, so that if not in want of 
food all other dishes may not nurse our greed. That is 
the proper way to start a meal, as then you never wish 
for a great deal. A little soup, a piece of bread, or an 
entree of simple fare will all sufficiency to you declare. 



The ordinary man requires four quarts of liquids a day 
to keep well, which he receives thru his food and the drinks 
that go with his meals. If he craves for liquids besides 
those already consum.ed then it is because his dishes are 
spiced and seasoned too heavily as well as wrongly com- 
pounded, and do not suit his temperament and constitution. 
When craving water use lemon juice in small quantities 
quite frequently and until all taste for water is gone. 
But correct your methods of living, as therein lies the secret 
that points out the road to good health. 



Grated apples with cream can be eaten even by those 
who are acidulous. A dash of nutmeg, cinnamon or mace 
will help to eliminate the acid. 



The most wholesome cereal dish is freshly ground wheat, 
sprinkled in boiling water and allowed to boil slowly, 
while stirring, for ten minutes. A little batter or cream 
will improve the taste. May also be eaten with nuts, 
honey and fruit juices. 



In case of colds or coughs, eat nothing for a day, and 
when hungry take three pieces of loaf sugar, put in oven 
to brown, and nibble while hot. Before retiring take the 
juice of a large raw onion. If not agreeable, slice the 
onion and over each layer spread a little sugar. Let stand 
for half an hour and sip the juice slowly. Next day eat 
a grated apple with fresh cream and a soft-boiled egg. 



Eat fresh apples rather than the diverse dried fruits, 
and pumpkins and squash where fruits disagree. 



As long as grapes will keep, resort to them instead of 
grape juice. 

198 



In colds, influenza, malaria, coughs and chest troubles 
take the juice of one lemon beaten with one tablespoonful 
of grape brandy and two tablespoonsful of sah. Imme- 
diately after take one cupful of light jaborandi tea or 
seven to ten drops of tincture of jaborandi to one cupful 
of hot water and retire to a very clean bed. 

The winter months, whether of the North or the ex- 
treme South, are the most congenial season for attention 
to the body deficient in health. It is well to chill the body, 
but we should resort to dry rubs immediately thereafter 
and heat the surface of the skin by our own efforts. A 
chilling is best done by pouring warm water out of a small 
teapot very slowly over forehead, the right, then the left 
ear, the neck, the right and the left shoulder, the right 
and left breast, the right and left hips, the thighs, the 
right and left calves of leg, the right and left insteps, the 
soles, and lastly, the right and left toes. Immediately 
take cold water, and go thru the same performance. Only 
when using cold water it is well, immediately after the 
tingling sensation begins, to rub the parts affected with 
your own hands, even if a little effort on your part becomes 
necessary. When thru with treatment rub the body dry 
and all the tender places anoint with almond oil. Keep- 
ing this up for several nights or mornings, you will be 
surprised at the good results and the vigor attained. Sick 
spells are banished with the first treatment, while a loath- 
some and lingering disease disappears after a few appli- 
cations. Make it a point to relax as much as possible 
v/hile the tingling sensation is felt thru the nervous sys- 
tem. Let your food be plain and avoid bake ^vare con- 
taining yeast or sodas for a time at least. Light herb 
teas, as jaborandi, camomile, clover blossoms, elder blos- 
soms, linden and rose blossoms, will aid a cure. 

Whether North or South, the poles or the equator, the 
season is favorable to the formation of fermentas, dis- 
solving and absorbing bacteria so numerously^ and^ so 
rapidly increasing in the alimentary canal and the intestmes 
of mammalia creatures. The winter season is favorable 
to the growth and accumulation of bacteria, beginning 

199 



with the latter part of autumn and reaching Its height 
at the opening of spring. In Eastern countries this fact 
has been recognized from time immemorial, and means have 
been adopted, not only to destroy the operations of bac- 
teria, but to prevent their growth. If bacteria are allowed 
to perpetuate their destroying work thruout the alimen- 
taries, much harm and suffering comes to the body and 
its organic operations. Of course, this accumulation 
of bacteria is largely due to im^proper living or the wrong 
selection of food or foods not in season. Where Nature 
is less observed, the accumulation of bacteria becomes very 
rapid, and were it not for the wisdom of Nature to reach 
a limit even here, self-poisoning would wipe humanity 
from the face of the earth by plague and pests year in and 
year out, so that in less than a generation there would 
be no trace of a civilized race. We owe it to limitations 
in the operations of Nature that man still lives in spite of 
all bacteria running into uncountable millions feeding 
upon our bodies and the numerous maggots, entozoa and 
other parasites that endanger our lives, continuously both- 
ering and troubling us. On the other hand, again, we 
find that it is not necessary for us to be imposed upon by 
bacteria or their kindred. Nature has provided for simple 
means to prevent any and every attack of bacterial growths 
which cause disintegrating tendencies to the organic part 
of our purifying operations. Sour milk, clabber, curdled 
milk, and milkines will aid us in ending the disintegrative 
processes and create the desired and necessary fermenta- 
tions which are formative, building, constructive. Per- 
mentas are death to bacteria, thus the bodyguard of in- 
testinal regions. How to prepare milk for fermentas: 
Put into earthenware vessel a quart of fresh milk and 
cover with a paper so as to protect from dust. Keep in 
a dark or partly dark place, but moderatelv warm, that is, 
comfortably warm, in a place clean and tidy, but not 
in an icebox. Let the milk stand for four or more days. 
Pour off the water in a glass and add a tablespoonful of 
grape juice to it gradually, while stirring the whey (water 
of the clabber) ; stir in well and drink it. As to the clabber, 
beat it with a fork and add to every glassful the juice 
of one heated lemon. Beat the juice in gradually. It is 

200 



well to take the clabber at night and the whey in the 
morning. Use it for three days in succession and repeat 
after ten days. Intestinal troubles will be eliminated and 
tendencies to fibroidal growths, cancers, tumors, hemor- 
rhoids, etc., banished. 



Where there are entozoa or maggots in the intestines 
it is well to remove them with mild cathartics, additional 
to preparations of grated carrot, sprinkled with anise seed, 
unfermented bread with Neufchatel cheese or Schmier- 
kase, sprinkled with caraway seed, and drink a cup or two 
of dill tea. 



The use of alcoholics should be rather sparing, and of 
cordials the Vermouth will prove the better. 



The season of feasting allows pickled fruits and vege- 
tables, also roasted nuts, as relishes, but not as food. 



Cranberries will ward off malaria and erysipelas. 

Celery and lettuce are particularly for nervous people 
and those suffering from kidney affections, neuralgia and 
rheumatism. 



Horseradish, fresh grated and brought to a boil in milk, 
thickened with a little flour, will prove an excellent tonic 
to liver and stomach. 



Cold feet; cold hands. That means poor circulation, 
altho the organs of the body are quite well. It means 
irregularity in functions of the alvine and renal calls. The 
systemi does not remove it all, but retains a part. In such 
a case the blood will lack the heat, while organs of the 
complex whole the heat detain. Take sponge baths, in 
a warm room, well heated, while your feet in cold water 
do stand. Remember that ten minutes only in this exer- 
cise you spend. Thus quickly move and lively be. Use 
lighter stockings, lighter underwear. Before you put on 
socks, or when you take them off, pull every toe, rub oft* 
your feet with hands until they burn, and feel quite dry. 

201 



Obey this law each day for weeks to come, and you will 
happy be, enjoying life's great run. 

Clabber, with wholesome bread, particularly corn bread, 
will keep the system comfortable and the bowels open. 

Mild and effective passages may be insured through the 
use of whey. Whey is really the clear water that gathers 
in the clabber. To obtain it we simply need to set a quart 
of milk aside, either in a bottle or jar. Cover the jar with a 
paper lid. It matters not whether the jar stands in the light 
or a dark place, but it should not be near a stove or a 
radiator. After five to eight days' standing, the whey- 
water will be ready for use. One wineglassful of that 
water taken upon an empty stomach will act upon the liver, 
while one hour after a meal a wineglassful of whey-water 
will aid and hasten digestion, acting readily upon the kid- 
neys. It will prove a great factor in colds and break fevers. 
Use whey-water only at intervals, from time to time, or 
whenever absolutely necessary. Whey acts better upon the 
system than the best prepared lemon concoctions. 

Be sure you rub the toes and pinch them every night and 
morning if you catch cold easily. Make it a point to run 
your fingers between the toes until the latter get dry and 
hot. 



Camomile blossoms as tea are now in order and used 
with a little ginger root will prove as a tonic and a relief 
in pulmonary affections. Those troubled with indiges- 
tion should not use ginger. 



A change of garments after a walk in the cold and 
damp air on a wet day will do more in warding oft* dis- 
ease than the taking of medicine, while a hot bath after 
a hard day's work or uncomfortable travel will do more 
in resting a person than the squarest meal, or a good bed. 
After a good but quick bath and the change to cleaner 
garments the simplest of meal will prove most wholesome, 
and a few hours' restful sleep, renew the vital forces and 
recreate one's powers for further activity. 

202 



JANUARY, 

Much bread and potatoes ought not to be eaten, unless 
plenty of fruit or raw vegetables are eaten at the same 
meal. 



Cereals, even cornmeals and oatmeals, are in order, but 
the invalid should remember that he still has to avoid 
grains in quantities. 



Raw peanuts eaten with raw prunes not only act upon 
the bowels, but remove mucus and phlegm. Very desira- 
ble in colds, coughs and catarrhs. 



In case of colds abstain from baths, just rub the body 
and particularly your feet quite often with a rough towel. 
Upon your chest pour eucalyptus oil and place a blotter 
over it. Repeat this treatment daily, twice. Let bill of 
fare be light; green onion tops and onions eat at night. 
If raw ones disagree, place them into an oven and bake 
them, sugared well, to golden brown. Use them quite 
freely and to back of neck and throat and face, hot water 
applications make and almond oil apply. At night for 
comforters do pray, and use an extra underlay. As to your 
breathing, clear the nostrils with hot water spray. Keep 
busy, occupy your mind with labors of the day. As you 
have done your part you need no longer be alarmed, as 
Nature's laws the progress of disease sha'l stay. Remain 
resolved and from calamity you'll surely be absolved. 



Onions will be of inestimable value to those who are 
much exposed to chills. Eat stewed onions, fried onions, 
baked onions and onions with apples. 



Where a cough has advanced to severity, check it at once 
by using one stick of licorice dissolved in one-half pint of 
fine brandy, using two or three tablespoonfuls of it every 
time you cough. One-half pint will sufBce to check the 
trouble. 



Ideas may be inherited, but a disease springing there- 
from has to .develop. 

203 



Between now and the opening of the fasting season 
malted beers are permissible, aiding dyspeptics and con- 
sumptives where used moderately and in connection with 
wholesome bread, raw eggs alternated with cottage cheese. 



Grapefruit juice beaten into sweet cream will cool a 
swollen liver and promote better bowel action. 



A mild and most effective laxative will be found in 
taking a half a cupful of rich cream and fill up the other 
half of the cup with steaming drip Mocha coffee. Half an 
hour later take slowly the juice of a lemon. 

Bananas baked with cooked rice will prove wholesome. 

Sore throats are very common these days, due to the 
exceptionally alternative changes in weather. Be sure to 
keep feet clean and dry. 

The best thing for a cough is three drops of oil of 
eucalyptus in a wineglassful of hot water, taken internally, 
and a piece of soft wrapping paper saturated with the oil 
of eucalyptus placed upon the chest. 



When going out, do not button up your coat to the 
neck. Give your neck freedom ; let the fumes of the body 
be carried off by virtue of your collared chimney. 



Banana well mashed and enough sweet cream beaten 
into it to make it like a soft paste will act upon the bowels 
mildly, at the same time prove quite an ideal diet for a 
season, while oranges with apples will prove cooling and 
very nutritious at this time and for some months to come. 



Although a little unpleasant to the taste, garlic is in 
season and should be used freely once a week. The 
proper way to use garlic as a tonic and remedy is to take 
hot toast and rub the garlic on it like you would spread 
butter. One large clove or two small ones will suffice. 
Toast and garlic eaten with a dish of prunes will prove 
a splendid purgent. At this season of rush and feasting 
garlic will prove a preventive. 

204 



FEBRUARY. 

Grapefruits are in season until the last week of Lent. 
For purification, particularly for severe blood diseases and 
the various phases of poisoning, use two to four grapefruits 
a day for ten days, and subsist largely on ginger bread. 



Grapefruit cures jaundice and all blood diseases. 



The juice of three grapefruits will check a severe cold. 



In case of real hunger make it a point to use oil broths 
with garlic before eating anything solid. 



Pineapples are in season for weak stomachs. Take one 
tablespoonful of the juice on an empty stomach and before 
each meal. Take after meals also for ten days. 



In case of general debility, fever, cold and cough, take 
a pint of sweet cider with the juice of two large lemons, 
and eat grapefruits only when hungry, for three to four 
days. 



Shortness of breath during the cold season is best eradi- 
cated thru the use of cane sugar, thoroly browned, and dis- 
solved while hot in as much lemon juice as it will take, 
then taken in doses of one to two tablespoonfuls. 



For mental gymnastics call to mind all the countries, 
mountains, valleys, cities, towns, hamlets, all the vegetation 
and their classification known to you, all the minerals 
handled by you, all the things of art worthy of your adora- 
tion, and the good people you have met in your life. Keep 
up this exercise daily before retiring and your memory 
will grow stronger, your mind brighter, your mood hap- 
pier. 



Leave out your sugar and use instead of milk good cream 
in your coffee. It won't sour on your stomach, neither 
will you suffer from ill effects. 

205 



SPRING TIME. 

MARCH. 

Whenever using a purgative it should be remembered 
that after a thoro passage we should immediately take 
one-fourth of the same purgative on an empty stomach. 
Take purgatives with the juice of one or more lemons for 
quick effects. For several mornings thereafter take at the 
same corresponding hour one glass of water on an empty 
stomach. Should the water be hard, stir into the same a 
pinch of borax or saleratus. In children sweetened water 
will prove very effective. 

St. John's bread or locust, used in quantities of one ounce 
a day in addition to two ounces of prunes, daily for six 
weeks, will cure an ordinary case of constipation. 

The whites of eggs beaten up, mixed with cream and 
afterward with the juice of lemon, is one of the finest rem- 
edies in any kind of troubles where nourishment and medi- 
icine is to be combined with immediate results for good. 

Sassafras, "nibbled at" or made into a tea by boiling it 
over a slow fire for fifteen minutes, then taken hot two or 
three times a day for ten days, will act purifying upon the 
system. It is necessary that the food consists largely 
of flour soups, rivelet soups, macaroni soups, rice with 
cream, barley with butter, buttermilk soup, wholesome 
bread. Eatables should be prepared fresh and none of 
the left-over things should be used. Rhubarb and dan- 
delion, either as a raw salad or else a vegetable dish, 
will be found very wholesome; of value to scrofulous 
and rheumatic people. 

March is a good fasting season there where the weather 
is not too severe and where the season gradually becomes 
warmer. On damp, wet, rainy days, while fasting, make 
it a point to bathe hot before retiring to bed and drink a 
seasonable herb tea, always inducing peristaltic movements, 
even if you have to resort to the internal bath, in which 
case it is well to use a tablespoonful of warm olive oil as 
an after-injection into the rectum. 

206 



APRIL. 

Should alvine calls be irregular, use syrups made of figs 
and prunes. Such a syrup is best made in white syrup in 
which rain water is used. Prepare as follows: Take two 
cupfuls of rain water, add three tablespoonfuls of confec- 
tioners' or homeopathic cane sugar. Allow to boil slowly, 
stirring continuously and until stringy. Now drop into 
this syrup five figs and ten prunes that have been cut into 
small pieces with scissors. Allow to boil slowly for thirtv 
minutes or more, gradually adding boiling rain water to it 
to keep the two cupfuls. Use freely while warm — from one 
to three tablespoonfuls, and one teaspoonful three times a 
day thereafter. Elderly people may use rectal or colon 
washes daily for ten nights to keep up and regain regu- 
larity, particularly while fasting. Young people should not 
use the syringe. It is better to refrain from eating entirely ; 
to take baths and rubs and a few drops of oil Euphorbia 
to get a thoro cleansing. 



All sorts of roots, such as orris, ginger, sarsaparilla, 
sassafras, etc., will prove best when ground and sprinkled 
over foods. 

Eat blossoms, of whatever kind procurable, if nervously 
inclined, while for trouble of the upper organs use largely 
tender leaves and stems, but confine yourself more to roots 
and rootlets if of an intestinal nature. Shives, young green 
onions and parsley should be used plentifully. 



Let children eat young carrots upon an empty stomach, 
and deprive them not from the use of all such greens as 
appeal to their taste, while the sap of maple trees and the 
bark of wild fruit trees and small berries will aid them 
in their development. Allow them plenty of milk when 
thirsty. Invalids following the same rule will soon re- 
cuperate and be as young as nature itself. In dryer climates 
use less dairy foods, but more fruits. 



Lettuce with green onions and two tablespoonfuls of 
black, mild cofifee once a day with the regular meal will 
prove invaluable to those troubled with insomnia. 

207 



Asparagus in large quantities with mint sauce (no vin- 
egar) will induce light perspiration, aiding circulation and 
clearing the complexion. 



Calamus, young and tender, will cure you of all maladies 
from kidney and the passions gender; just eat a dram of it 
before each meal for a week or two, and demonstrate the 
o-ood thereof — how true. 



t> 



Tropical and semi-tropical fruits are in order and should 
be used as eliminators and tonics. 



Dewdrops licked from grass blades, leaves or stems will 
clear the complexion and make the flesh as firm as of a 
healthy, rosy-cheeked child. 



Add a few drops of lemon juice to a wineglassful of 
rain water and the burning fevers will cease, while the 
spirit shall rise in you, insuring nerve and brain. 



Heal yourself either by proper eating, dieting or fasting 
and not by medication. 



Invalids may use albumen or gum arable dissolved in 
rain water or distilled water, as next best, to tone up the 
stomach. 

Eat daily for twenty-seven days a mouthful of licorice 
after your meals, and instead of water keep a slice of 
lemon on your tongue and your pulmonary troubles will 
pass away, leaving the membranous lining in a better con- 
dition than if you had resorted to the best medical advice 
procurable. 

Eat greens of all kinds that the local market affords ; 
drink fresh sweet milk in the eady morning and avoid 
using anything fried. Muffins, biscuits and other bake- 
ware are in order. Butter may be used again, but should 
be unsalted. 

Make it a point to use all the different fresh greens as 
your principal articles of food and take only enough of 
bread to make you feel that you have had your dessert. 

208 



MAY. 

Strawberries with cream, also mashed and thinned with 
pineapple juice and cream, insure pure tint and rosy cheeks. 



Raw beaten eggs with strawberries will cool the feverish 
brow and improve the action of the kidneys and liver. 



Strawberries with cream are not only delicious but val- 
uable to persons suffering from indigestion. But let sugar 
alone. 

Finely cut onions, mixed with shives and parsley, will 
prove a splendid remedy for nervous prostration. 



Oxheart carrots and sweet peas, eaten with pine nuts, 
cure asthma. 



Fresh carrots eaten raw, with a few caraway and anise 
seeds, will remove wormiS. 



Watercress with mustard leaves and spinach will over- 
come fibroids and cancer. 



Spinach and dandelion used in small proportions daily 
for twenty-one days will correct liver complaints. 



Mushrooms, asparagus and parsley are a fine combina- 
tion for him who claims digestive troubles and whose kid- 
neys are weak. 

Butter is particularly of value during the month of May 
to people suffering from lung, throat and nasal troubles. 
Such butter is to be used in large quantities and unsalted. 
It must be used fresh and either by itself or with flaked 
rice, hard tack or wheat preparations, like triscuit or gran- 
ose biscuit. 



The leaves of sorrel and of wild mustard to the stomach 
better are than all the drugs that man prescribes, and 
eaten daily as a salad our swollen liver ever bribes so 
that at night we rest in Morpheus' arms as innocent and 
sweet as angel faces who the early sunbeams greet. 

209 - 



Should your stomach feel distressed at any time take a 
few chips of ice, swallow them, then eat as much spinach 
as will be necessary for you to make a good square meal 
on and drink the juice of one lemon well salted. Repeat 
this daily for three to five days. Thereafter use the tops 
of red beets as a salad with radishes well peeled. 



Powdered violet or orris root is better than salt and 
spices at this season. It tones the stomach, cools the liver, 
aids the kidneys and insures a healthy skin with a rosy 
complexion. 



Soups are not in order now that so many juicy veg- 
etables adorn the valleys of our paradise. 



Cooking should be discarded now and only such dishes 
used that require no particular preparation except that of 
cutting, slicing, grating and chopping. 



When exhausted and tired take a glass of cream with 
the juice of two lemons. 



When unhappy use a mild cathartic and go to the river- 
bank or the mountains for inspiration. 



Fresh or dry rhubarb is a better chew than tobacco or 
gum. Take a mouthful daily for ten days and note the 
clear complexion, and the mild passages that give you so 
much happiness. 



Take a plunge in a running stream of water, a lively 
pool or lake. Take that plunge before daylight and take 
a good run until the body seems aglow. Rub the skin 
gently, then vigorously. Keep it up for a month and you 
shajl know the blessings God bestows upon the head of him 
who listens to the voice and follows its command. Catarrhs 
of throat or nose, catarrh of stomach and intestines need 
not be where man is willing to entrust himself to water- 
falls and waterwaves. Where in the early morn before 
the sun does rise, the healing waters flow, there is the 
power to cleanse the wise from every malady. 

210 



SUMMER TIME. 

JUNE. 

Blackberries will check diarrhea. 



Turnips eaten daily with white onions will dispel scurvy, 
gravel, and will remove tumors. 

Whenever raw food makes you diarrhetic during the 
warmer season, eat one tablespoonful of browned flour 
after each meal. 

Injections of French almond oil will heal hemorrhoids 
or piles, whether bleeding or blind. 

Sea weeds, the bleached part thereof, are of inestimable 
value to the sufferer from indigestion and dyspepsia. Pull 
the weeds; cut the lower ends fine, and eat with a piece 
of unbuttered bread. 

Do not use cheese and eggs at the same time with your 
meal, but keep them apart. Fried eggs are out of order this 
month, and baked cheese as in rarebit will call out old 
conditions. So beware! 



Stick to the vegetables in season and have^ cherries as 
well as other small fruits in moderate quantities. 



Sheep sorrel and water-pepper eaten every day as a salad 
during June will eradicate fibroids and cancers. 

Take a cold plunge or a sponge bath before retiring and 
be sure you rub off the body thoroly. Go to sleep before 
midnight and arise before sunrise, making it a point to go 
out barefoot even if but for five minutes. 

Should you be troubled with catarrh in winter or hay 
fever in mid-summer, remember that June will eradicate 
it soon if you will simply seek a cozy spot of running water 
or the lake shore. Jump into the water just at sunrise. 
Move about lively for five minutes. Go under water a few 
times. As you come out of the water throw over yourself 

211 



a garment quickly while emptying the lungs thoroly and 
fill your chest thereafter, taking to your heels and running 
as if for your life for about three minutes. Then rub off 
body with your hands ; use no towels. Having done this 
daily for ten days you want to let up on it, taking this open- 
door plunge every other day for a week, and quit before 
the first of July, 

Those suffering from hay fever let them remember that 
now is the time to take cold water sponge baths three 
times a day, to wear very light linen clothing, and to swab 
their nostrils with brandy. At night take a saleratus 
powder. 

Let your food consist of fruits and vegetables of the 
season, and avoid sugar, salts and condiments if you want 
to enjoy the glories of the season. 

Eat the petals of the buttercup flower as you pass the 
field. Eat them freely and miss it not to nibble the 
tender leaves of sheep sorrel wherever it is found. It will 
send thru your veins intelligences conducive to your 
bodily welfare. 

If feeling heavy and costive, use Httle pebbles, two or 
three every other day — pebbles the size of mustard seed. 



Petals of blue flowers and those tinged bluish and white 
possess curative powers during June. Eat them with the 
dew upon them in small quantities daily and you will 
never be given to blood diseases of a serious nature. The 
same is true of small fruits. Gather them before sunrise- 
Feed on them and be happy. 



Do not drink water, which is but a crutch that paralyzes 
all organic action. Use fruits of an acidulous kind; too 
much you cannot take of it, my friend. 

Clothed lightly, comfortably and in texture and color 
corresponding to the season, refraining from nightgowns, 
free from association, resting in the everlasting arms of 
God, all the inventions of man called hygiene and health 
measures will become superfluous. 

212 



JULY. 

Lettuce with fresh unprepared cucumbers and a few 
slices of raw potatoes, is the best food for dyspeptics. 



Tomatoes are best in intestinal troubles and should be 
used without preparation. 



Drink no water. Quench thy thirst by bathing with cold 
water, previous to the m^eal, your upper arms, wrists and 
hands. 



If thirsty after a meal dip thy finger into the running 
water of the stream beside you and lick the finger gently, 
as the breezes touch thy lips. Forget not to lift thine eyes 
beyond the jasper sea, when raising the finger of destiny 
to thine own blessed lips. And your soul will understand 
the sacred rite of thy conduct, while thy spirit will shower 
blessings upon thy head in the form of earthly success. 

Clabber with a dish of nutmeg will prove refreshing and 
aid the alimentary organs, while the skin will remain active. 



Now is your time to eradicate rheumatic and all diseases 
of the kidneys and the bladder by taking long walks in the 
morning and a sun bath before the noon hour. 



Eat green peas, beans, corn, carrots and potatoes. Use 
all the savories of the season. 



Take a handful of plantin leaves ; bruise them ; pour one 
pint of hot water upon them (rain water preferable) ; let 
it stand all day and at night use this with three to four 
quarts of hot water in your colon-flushing. After the 
flushing inject tvv^o tablespoonfuls of pure almond oil. Rec- 
tal troubles as well as complications of the intestines will be 
eliminated thru this treatment. 



New, small potatoes boiled in their skins and eaten with 
clabber will be beneficial even to an invalid. 

213 



Grated raw beets, turnips and carrots, seasoned with 
lemon juice or rhubarb juice, are in order and will prove 
a cooling food. 

Any kind of fruit with bread and a glass of buttermilk 
or lemon milk will make a delicious dish. 



Lemon milk is made by gradually beating the juice of 
one lemon into a bowl of sweet milk. We use the egg 
beater in this case very successfully. 



When your little ones ail or show symptoms of laziness 
it is because they are robbed of opportunities to express 
freedom of thought and action. Go out with them into 
the fields and set unto them an example which they will 
soon follow. That is by far better and serving the Lord 
more intelligently than to confine them to the musty Sun- 
day-school room and sit in a pew, entertaining all kinds of 
ideas but those approaching heaven. 

Walk along the still waters of the pond or the roaring 
flow of torrents and let Nature wash away the accumula- 
tions of waste from your feet. Then let the soft and 
gentle breezes of the air and the ever-searching rays of 
sunlight breathe the perfume of liberty upon your feet. 
While yet contemplating turn to your lunch basket, take 
from it your little crust of bread and spread upon it cot- 
tage cheese, mixed with finely cut chives, onion tops, 
parsley, green tansy, watercress and wild mustard leaves, 
with additional cream. 

People suffering from indigestion, dyspepsia, rheuma- 
tism and constipation should eat no bread or cereals, no 
cheese or potatoes this month. Use plenty of raw foods 
as Nature ofifers them. Cucumbers, but not cucumber 
salads, will prove of great value. 



Raspberries should not be fed to children except as jams. 
Now is your time to get rid of all those bunions and frost 
boils by wearing sandals and at night bathing your feet in 
hot water, then applying raspberry juice to those blem- 
ishes. Like magic these boils will disappear. 

214 



AUGUST. 

Watermelon will drive out epilepsy and yellow fever. 



Well ripened gooseberries will prove an excellent liver 
tonic. Do not mix with other fruit at same meal, and do 
not use buttermilk with them. 



Hot peppers are in order for consumptives, and all those 
suffering from bronchial and membranous troubles. Care 
must be taken that the bowels are kept open. Water should 
not be used unless made into a drink by using a cupful of 
bran to. every quart of water, well stirred, and allowed to 
stand for at least one-half hour. 



Abstain from water. When thirsty and desirous of a 
cooling drink take lemon, grape or orange juice, two table- 
spoonfuls to every glass of water. 



Eat clabber, buttermilk or sweet milk smoothed down 
with lemon juice. Vegetables in small quantities. Fruit fol- 
lowed with browned flour bread, or cookies made of cracker- 
dust or matzos. 

Let the consumptive, the catarrhal, hay fever and bron- 
chial sufferer bury his body in the hot sand for an hour 
with a green umbrella to shade his head, and sponge his 
body thereafter with boiled vinegar. Keep up daily for ten 
days and every other day thereafter until the month is up. 

Rheumatics and consumptives should not let August pass 
without giving the white grape cure a test. With soft 
boiled eggs and whole wheat wafers, gems and bread on 
the side a cure may be accomfJished in three weeks. Eat 
grapes on an empty stomach when hungry, and last thing 
at night. In case you grow tired of grapes after a few 
days, stop eating anything for a day or two. Take a 
pinch of powdered tgg, sea or crab shells three to five times 
a day.^ The second day take a tablespoonful of fresh pine- 
apple juice on an empty stomach, and if a desire for grapes 
doeg not return, continue with shells until hunger becomes 
great enough to eat grapes. Do not swallow skins or seeds. 

215 



AUTUMN TIME. 

SEPTEMBER. 

Is your liver swollen and does the uric acid trouble your 
tissues by day and by night in the form of rheumatism, 
gout, neuralgia? If so, then confine yourself to the use of 
white grapes while the season lasts. Eat them in the early 
morning, eat them when thirsty or hungry until late at 
night, finishing your grape meal with a little honey bread, 
ginger or molasses cakes. Seeds and skins should not be 
eaten. 



For skin troubles, eczema or salt rheum you will find the 
blue grapes of inestimable value, always finishing your meal 
with milk toast. 



Honey is for him this month who suffers from kidney 
and bladder troubles. Have all the honey and bread you 
can eat at a meal. In fact, make a meal of it. After a 
meal, take a tablespoonful of clear lemon juice. 



A selection of two or three different acid fruits in addi- 
tion to grapes will cure liver troubles and costiveness. Use 
apricots, peaches, pears, plums, figs and apples. 



Indigestion, dyspepsia and stomach troubles in general 
will find cure in the use of white grapes upon an empty 
stomach, three times a day. Also use cream freely with 
other fruits. Eat very little bread, and that dipped into 
boiled olive oil, well sprinkled with cayenne pepper. 



Unprepared cucumbers are excellent in weak kidneys. 
The peelings thrown into the bath will prove invigorating, 
while the juice of cucumber will clear the skin and pre- 
serve its beauty if slices of raw potatoes are rubbed over the 
skin. 



Persimmons, pomegranates, figs and oranges are for 
catarrhal people and consumptives. 

216 



Bananas and rice, either raw or baked, make a splendid 
food at this season. 



Fruits slowly masticated are by far better laxatives than 
the best medication. 



Vegetables of a higher order are now in season, but re- 
member that pumpkins, squashes, melons, cucumbers and 
all the different species of gourds call for stimulants, tea 
or black coffee ; that is, where gourds are used exclusively. 



In case of griping or pain, use strong ginger tea made 
from ginger fruit or root, or take one-half teaspoonful of 
mustard seeds. 

If you have to have baked apples with cream, forget 
not to spice them with cinnamon and nutmeg sparingly. 



For lung troubles and asthma use Tokay grapes or 
grapes of a light-red color. Finish up with rice cake 
sweetened with honey. 

Eat fruits, and plenty of them, this month. Particularly 
peaches, plums, apricots and other stone fruits, if costive. 
Always counteract stone fruits with seedy fruits to obtain 
certain good results. 

All people with liver and kidney troubles should eat 
plenty of zvhite grapes twice a day and make a little meal 
on cereals. 

Catarrhal people, whether stomach, throat or nasal 
catarrh, will do best to abstain from grapes, but should 
use persimmons, pomegranates, figs and oranges. 



Rheumatic people should use two to three different 
kinds of grapes with each meal for the whole of autumn 
season. 

The month of watermelons and cucumbers to those 
whose liver is torpid and the duodenum fatty. Finish up 
your watermelon or cucumber meal with a crust of bread 
and a demi-tasse of Mocha coffee. 

217 



OCTOBER. 

Do not change your summer underwear to heavier gar- 
ments. Wear the same weight of underwear and stockings 
all the year round and you will be less exposed to colds, 
catarrhs, pneumonia and even neuralgic troubles. When 
uncomfortable throw an extra cover over your body, either 
in the form of an overcoat or a shawl, but take care not 
to bundle your neck. Neck must be free to allow circula- 
tion of the bodily functions. 



Lemons correct heart trouble, break fevers, dyspepsia 
and indigestion. 



Is your stomach going back on you? Does it cause you 
trouble? Confine yourself for several days to one raw 
white of tgg in the morning, another in the evening and 
in the meanwhile still your hunger with white grapes. Eat 
little at a time but often, or as often as you feel like it. 
After a few days you will feel well again, but do not return 
to your table d'hote but add a dish daily, still making grapes 
your principal food. 



Eat apples and grapes and lots of them, and so as not to 
grow tired and weary of them during the next six weeks, 
take a piece of bread with them, like corn bread, rye bread, 
wheat bread or their equivalents. 



Apples to be good must be just a trifle tart, mealy, yet 
juicy and of a very fine flavor, while grapes must be tasty. 



Pumpkins and squashes are particularly of value when 
cooked in butter and their own juice or baked in an oven. 
Will prove to be excellent a-s waste mover when eaten with 
raw cabbage salad or grated red beets on the side. 



Turnips go well with beans and rye bread, but if they are 
to act on kidneys, use cabbage with them, and peas or 
eggplant instead of cabbage. 

218 



NOVEMBER. 

Think of your grated apples with orange juice, your 
glass of cream with lemon, a bowl of fresh rolled wheat or 
coarsely ground wheat made into gruel, and be happy. 

Raw peanuts with figs will move the bowels, and blanched 
almonds with grapes our nerves will assist, while chestnuts 
with prunes will stop all growls, and pine nuts with apple 
all colds resist. 

Going out in the early morning when cold and damp, 
it is well to take a few drops of Vermouth in grape juice 
or hot water. Keep the mouth closed and remain relaxed 
for about one-half of a mile. 



With the beginning of cold weather cold sponge baths 
in a warm room are advisable, followed by dashes of cold 
water to the principal parts of the body. A mouthful of 
water should be taken during the procedure of spongings. 
The water should be held in the mouth for a while before 
swallowing. It will assist the bath greatly and improve 
skin activity. In the morning and also upon retiring a few 
swallows of cold water should be taken. 



For constipation nothing is better than a diet for sev- 
eral weeks, and even months, if an absolute cure is desired. 
Raw cereals in moderate quantities, soft boiled eggs, 
macerated spinach with oil and lemon, okra with tomatoes, 
raw sliced potatoes with oil and lemon, very small quanti- 
ties of unfermented bread, grated apple with juice of 
orange and cream, baked bananas with cream, will prove 
most effective. For drinks it is best to confine one^s self 
at this particular season to cereal cofifee in small quantities, 
such coffee containing wheat and barley. Or make a hot 
rye and barley drink, preparing as you would a tea. Use 
hop tea, raisin tea, fig and date syrup, raw prunes or prune 
water. Use all drinks cold. Abstain from spices and salt 
for a month. 

Grated raw turnips eaten with Spanish onions daily for 
twenty-eight days will eradicate tumors and remove gravel. 
Use with the turnip, raw spinach and mustard leaves or 
green pepper. 

219 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

Grains and Their Values 5 

Bread Making 8 

Bread 13 

Anise Zwieback 19 

Bread Sticks 15 

Breakfast Bread 15 

Brown Bread 19 

Corn Batter Bread 17 

Fruit Bread 16 

Graham Bread 18 

Keily Bread 16 

Oriental Corn Bread 15 

Oriental Fruit Bread 14 

Potato Bread 18 

Promotion Food 16 

Promotive Bread 13 

Rye Bread 19 

Salt-Raised Bread 17 

Steam Brown Bread 19 

Sweet Bread 14 

Table Bread 17 

Unfermented Whole-Wheat Bread , 13 

Whole- Wheat Bread 18 

Gems and Pancakes 20 

All-Day Pancakes 23 

Beaten Biscuits . 22 

Corn Bread 23 

Corn Muffins 21 

Corn Pone 23 

Doughnuts 21 

Fruit Pancakes 24 

German Pancakes 24 

German Potato Pancakes 23 

Graham or Rye Gems 21 

Griddle Cakes 22 

Health Muffins 21 

Popovers 22 

Prairie Gems 23 

Quick Biscuits 22 

Whole-Wheat Muffins 21 

Beverages 25 

Apple Drink 34 

Apple Water 34 

Arabian Coffee 26 

Banana Coffee 31 

Barley Coffee 31 

220 



Beverages — Barley Water 32 

Blackberry Wine 34 

Bran Drink 32 

Bran Lemonacje 33 

Bran Tea 32 

Cereal Coffee Blend 30 

Cereal Drinks 28 

Chinese or Japanese Tea 25 

Chocolate 31 

Cocoa 30 

Cocoa from Cocoa Shells 30 

Cocoa Shells • 31 

Coffee Compound 28 

Currant Drink 33 

Flaxseed Lemonade 32 

Grape Juice , 31 

Health Coffee [30 

Herb Teas 31 

Home Coffee 30 

Hot Lemonade 34 

Morning Drink 29 

Near Coffee 28 

Oil Drink 28 

Onion Gruel ^^ 

Orangeade 33 

Rice Water 33 

Salt Brandy 27 

Slippery-Elm Bark Tea 32 

Spirituous Liquors 27 

Sweet Taste in Mouth 28 

Tea Drinks 31 

Toast Water 32 

Vegetable Coffee .'30 

Wheat Coffee 29 

Wisdom Coffee 29 

Cakes 35 

Almond Cookies ;^6 

Angel Cake 39 

Cake Nuts 38 

Chocolate Glace ^7 

Chocolate-Marshmallowr Cake ;^y 

Chocolate Layer Cake 36 

Cocoanut Cookies 42 

Cranberry Filling 40 

Cream Cake ;^C 

Doughnuts 41 

Dutch Frosting 38 

Fruit Cake, Par Excellence 42 

Ginger Bread 39 

Ginger Cake 41 

Marshmallow Filling 40 

221 



Cakes — Mazdaznan Cake 3^ 

Nut Cookie 38 

Nut-Fruit Filling 41 

Nut-Fruit Short Cake 41 

Oatmeal Flakes 37 

Ray's Short Cake 40 

Sand Hearts Zl 

Sorghum Cake 38 

Sponge Cake 36 

Strawberry Filling 40 

Sunshine Cake 39 

Tea Cake 42 

Wedding Cake 40 

Candies 43 

Candied Fruits 44 

Cocoanut Candy 44 

Chocolate Caramels 44 

Chocolate Creams No. i 43 

Chocolate Creams No. 2 43 

Nut Candy 44 

Cereal Foods 45 

Baby Food 46 

Cracked Wheat 48 

Cream Toast 50 

Farmers' Rice 50 

Grainol 48 

Grainoena " 49 

Grainutta 50 

Oriental Wheat Dish 48 

Plain Dish 47 

Plain Wheat Dish 47 

Popcorn 48 

Shredded Wheat 50 

Steamed Wheat 47 

Sweet Corn 48 

Taroetta 49 

Wheat Gruel 49 

Whole Wheat Mess 49 

Condiments and Spices 51 

Croquettes 52 

Cheese 52 

Chestnut 52 

Peanut 52 

Dairy Foods 53 

Butter 53 

Cheese 53 

Milk and Cream 53 

Schmierkase 53 

Dressings 54 

French Dressing 54 

Mayonnaise 55 

222 



Dressings — Nice Dressing 55 

Plain Mayonnaise 54 

Simplicity Dressing 55 

Sauces 56 

Bread Sauces 56 and 58 

Brown Sauce 57 

Browned Sauce 57 

Cream Sauce 56 

Italian Dressing 56 

Mint Sauce 56 

Mushroom Gravy 58 

Mushroom Sauce 58 

Nun's Butter 58 

Sweet Sauce 57 

Sweet Tomato Sauce 57 

Tomato Sauces 56 and 57 

Eggs 59 

Apple Omelette 63 

Belgrad Eggs 62 

Cheese Omelette 64 

Columbus Eggs 61 

Custards 61 

Deviled Eggs 62 

Egg Plant Omelet 63 

Hard Boiling 60 

Lenten Chops 61 

New Omelet 63 

Poached Eggs on Toast 62 

Poached Eggs with Mushrooms 63 

Poaching 60 

Scrambled 60 

Scrambled Eggs 63 

Soft Boiling 60 

Spanish Omelet 64 

Swiss Eggs 61 

Tomato Scramble 64 

Vegetable Omelet 64 

Fritters and Patties 65 

Aerated Corn Fritters 65 

Apple Fritters 67 

Banana Fritters 67 

Bread Fritters 65, 68 

Corn Fritters 66 

Corn Oyster Fritters 68 

French Fritters 69 

Jolly Boy's Fritters 68 

Lima Bean Patties 69 

Parsnip Fritters 67 

Plain Potato Fritters 69 

Rice Fritters 66 

Salsify. Fritters 67 

223 



Fritters and Patties — Tomato Fritters 66 

Vegetable Fritters 65 

Fruits, Their Virtue and Use 70 

Apples 75 

Apricots 75 

Bananas 75 

Banana Cream 80 

Blackberries 7^ 

Cherries 7^^ 

Cranberries 76 

Currants 76 

Dainty Dessert 80 

Dates 76 

Figs 77 

Fruits, Fresh, Dried and Canned 7Z 

Gooseberries 77 

Grapes 78 

Grapefruit 75 

Lemons ' 77 

Nectarines 77 

Oranges 78 

Peaches 78 

Pears 79 

Persimmons 80 

Pineapples 80 

Plums 79 

Pomegranates 79 

Raspberries 79 

Strawberries 79 

Jellies 81 

Meat 82 

Nuts • . 84 

Almond Butter 86 

Brazil Nut Butter 85 

Butternut and Black Walnut Butter 86 

Chestnuts 85 

Cocoanut 86 

Filberts 85 

Hickory Nuts 85 

How to Make Peanut; Butter 84 

Nut Creams 86 

Peanutta 86 

Pinon or Pine Nut Butter 85 

Walnut Butter 85 

Oils 87 

Cocoanut Oil 89 

Corn Oil 89 

Cottonseed Oil . . .^ 87 

Improved Soup Oil ; 88 

Oils in General 88 

Olive Oil 87 

224 



Oils— Peanut Oil 89 

Salad Oil _ 87 

Sesame Oil 89 

Sunflower Seed Oil 88 

Pickles and Catsups 90 

Cucumber Relish 91 

Indian Chutney .-90 

Persian Pickle 90 

Piccalilli 91 

Pickled Beets 90 

Tomato Catsup 91 

Pies 92 

Apple Pie 93 

Buttermilk Filling 96 

Cheese Pie 95 

Cracker Pie 93 

Custard Pie 93 

Date Pie 93 

Fig Pie 96 

Fruit Pie 94 

Jelly Pie 96 

Lemon Pie 94 

Mince Pie 94 

Orange Pie 95 

Orangeade Pie 96 

Pie Crust 92 

Plain Custard 96 

Pumpkin Pie 95 

Rhubarb Pie 95 

Sorghum Pie 95 

Strawberry Pie 94 

Puddings and Custards ' * 97 

Amber Pudding 99 

Apple Cobbler 97 

Apricot Pudding 98 

Chestnut Pudding 97 

Chocolate Pudding 100 

Cocoanut Custard loi 

Cocoanut Pudding 100 

Dried Apple Custard loi 

Fruit Pudding 102 

New England Bread Pudding 100 

Nut Pudding loi 

Orange Custard 98 

Orange Marmalade loi 

Plain Apple Custard 100 

Plum Pudding 98 

Prune Puding 99 

Queen Custard loi 

Sauce 98 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 98 

225 



Puddings and Custards — Sultana Plum Pudding 99 

Tapioca Pudding 102 

Uncooked Pudding 102 

Salads 103 

Beet Salad 104 

Cauliflower Salad 105 

Egg Salad 104 

Fruit Salad 106 

Macedonian Salad 105 

Nasturtium Salad 106 

Nut-Celery Salad 103 

Nut-Fruit Salad 106 

Plain Egg Salad 104 

Plain Potato Salad 104 

Royal Potato Salad 105 

Spinach Salad 104, 106 

Tomato Salad 103 

Vegetable Salad 103, 104 

Waldorf Salad 105 

Sandwiches 107 

Cheese Sandwich 107 

Divers Sandwich 108 

Fig Sandwich 107 

Fruit Sandwich 107 

Ginger Sandwich 108 

Olive Sandwich 108 

Peanut Sandwich 108 

Raisin-Nut Sandwich 107 

Savory Sandwich 108 

Soups 109 

Asparagus Soup 112 

Barleybon ■ 113 

Bean Soup 113 

Bouillon Soup i lO 

Broth, The no 

Celery Soup in 

Consomme Vegetal no 

Cracked Barley Soup in 

Cream of Beans in 

Cream of Cheese Soup 114 

Cream of Tomato Soup 114 

Grain-Vegetable Soup 112 

Parsley Soup no 

Pea Soup 112 

Rice Soup Ill 

Rice-Macaroni Soup 112 

Soup for Invalids 109 

Sweet Potato Soup 114 

Tomato Soup 113 

Vegetable Soup in 

Vegetable Stew 113 

226 



Entrees, or Symposia Full Dinner Dishes 115 

A la Famille 120 

A la Simple 120 

A la Sultana 120 

Cheese Ramekins 125 

Chestnut 117 

De Carotte ng 

De Noix iiQ 

De Pois en Cosse ug 

De Vegetal .1 19 

Formula No. i 116 

Formula No. 2 116 

Indian Curry 126 

Macaroni-Cheese Croquettes 121 

Macaroni with Cheese 121 

Midnight Dish .....126 

Naturalia ! .' 1 18 

Noodles and Clieese 124 

Peas Roast 121 

Peanut Fruit 124 

Plain Dish 126 

Prunatuna ! , . . 1 18 

Royal Macaroni 125 

Spaghetti Italienne 122 

Spaghetti Sauce 123 

Spaghetti with Browned Sauce 122 

Spaghetti with Tomatoes 122 

Spamutti ug 

Spanish Rice 124 

Spanish Spaghetti 123 

Stuffed Mangoes or Bell Peppers 123 

Taharani 1 17 

Urana '.*.'.'. 118 

Welsh Rarebit 125 

Vegetables [[ 127 

Asparagus .........! 130 

Baked Beans 131 

Beans 136 

Beets ;i30 

Boiled Onions 133 

Cabbage 131 

Carrots 132 

Cauliflower 131 

Celery ...'.'.".'!.'.'." 132 

Corn Timbales 132 

Cucumbers 133 

Dandelion 133 

Endive 136 

Green Corn 132 

Mixed Dish 135 

Mushrjoom Delicacy 133 

227 



Vegetables— Oyster Plant 134 

Peas 136 

Potatoes 134 

Potato Souffle 131 

Sauerkraut 131 

Spanish Beans 130 

Spanish Sweet Corn 130 

Spinach I33 

String Beans I34 

Stuffed Egg Plant I34 

Stuffed Tomatoes : 132 

Tomatoes I35 

Turnips '-135 

Use of Potato I35 

Vegetable Dish 133 

Health Rules I37 

Dietary Rules 138 

Invalids—Their Need to Change of Climate 139 

Diet for Invalids I43 

Fattening Foods I44 

For Cure of Constipation 143 

For General Improvement 143 

For Moral Strength 144 

For Vitality and Mental Strength 143 

Foods Promoting Immoral and Sex Troubles 144 

Heart Troubles I45 

Indigestion and Dyspepsia I45 

In Lung or Pulmonary Troubles 146 

Kidney Troubles 146 

Mental or Intellectual Foods 146 

Nervousness I45 

Rejuvenating Foods I43 

Thinning Foods • . I44 

To Eliminate Sex Troubles 145 

Raw Food I47 

General Food Rules 148 

Cereals 148 

Dairy Foods , I49 

Fruits 148 

Grains 148 

Green Vegetables 148 

Nuts 148 

Water I49 

Beverages and Drinks 150 

Barley Joy 151 

Cocoanut Drinks 151 

Cold Tea or Coffee 151 

Egg Drink ISO 

Food Drink 150 

Health Drink 150 

228 



Beverages and Drinks — Home Buttermilk 151 

Morning Drink 150 

Poppy Drink 150 

Bread 152 

Barley Joy Loaf 154 

Chestnut Bread 154 

Daily Bread 152 

Force Bread 152 

Health Bread 154 

Honey Bread 154 

Nut Bread 153 

Promotion Bread 153 

Sun-Baked Bread 152 

Cereals 155 

Grape Grain 155 

Mush 155 

Rolled Oats 155 

Wheat Dish (Two Recipes) 155 

Cakes 156 

Fruit Cake 156 

Short Cake 156 

Creams and Dressings 157 

Amina 158 

Apple Cream 157 

Decimayonnaise 158 

Nut Cream 157 

Nutol Cream 157 

Oil Dressing 158 

Orange Cream 157 

Pineapple Cream 157 

Pine Nut 157 

Poppy Cream 158 

Sweet Cream 158 

Eggs 159 

Beulah Egg 159 

Sultana Egg 1 59 

Yokohama Egg 159 

Youlka Egg 159 

Salads 160 

Cucumber Salad 162 

Delicia Salad 160 

Fig Salad 161 

French Fruit Salad 162 

Fruta Salad 160 

Jarah 161 

Lettuce Salad 162 

Onion Salad 162 

Potato Salad 162 

Raw Salad 161 

Royal Salad 160 

Salsify Salad 161 

229 



Salads — Vegefruit l6o 

Vegetable Salad i6o, i6i 

Soups 163 

An Endless Variety of Soups 164 

Celery Soup 164 

Cereal Soup 164 

Garlic Soup 163 

Grain -Tomato Soup 163 

Milk Soup 163 

Nut Soup 164 

Onion Soup 163 

Important Hints 165 

Seasonable and Economic Studies 166 

Further Information 167 

Menu — Bill of Fare for a Simple Life 168 

Christmas Season, The 169 

Christmas Week 168 

Menu for Winter Season 169 

Winter Season 170 

Lenten Season 171 

Easter Week — A Time for Reasonable Fasting 173 

Menu for Early Springtime 175 

Mid-Spring Season 176 

Late Springtime 177 

Latter Part of Spring, The 178 

Menu for Summer Season 179 

Autumn Season 180 

Autumn Season, The 181 

Dietary in a Nutshell 182 

Food for the Mind 185 

How to Eat and Drink 182 

Mastication the Key to Digestion 185 

Pointers to Invalids 190 

Work and Overwork 184 

Hints to Sufferers 191 

Curry Powder 192 

Dill Pickles 194 

Gherkins 193 

Lemon Diet 196 

Milk Diet 195 

Mustard Cucumbers 194 

Spiced Condiments 192 

Tea for Invalids 195 

Hints of the Seasons • 197 

Autumn Time 216 

Spring Time 206 

Summer Time 211 

Winter I97 



230 



MAZDAZNAN 

HEALTH AND BREATH CULTURE 

Consisting of 

TWELVE LESSONS 

As given by Dr. O. Z. Hanish 

of the Mazdaznan movement. For the culture of body and 
mind, assuring absolute health and mind control. Defines the 
psychologic side of man's organism and gives means for the 
development of man's latent twelve senses and his higher attri- 
butes of mind, soul and spirit, making it possible for the student 
to gain Bliss Absolute and Infinite Wisdom to cope v/ith the 
strenuous demands of our time in a spirit of joy and pleasure. 
Write for Table of Contents. $5.00. 

INNER STUDIES 

Suitable for the riper student only. In Twelve Lessons brimful 
of common sense and reason, defining sex relation and solving 
the most perplexing problems of marital embrace. Hints to the 
unhappy and the sufferer from diseases of premature mistakes 
alone worth the price of the book. Each page a revelation, 
each sentence an inspiration. Written for his pupils only by 
Dr. O. Z. Hanish. ;^10.00. To pupils, $5.00. 

PRE-NATAL DUTY 

by Mary Barteau, one of Dr. O. Z. Hanish's pupils. 

Disclosing the influence of mind thru motherhood and shows 
the cause of inherited tendencies for good or worse. 25c. 

IN PREPARATION: 

HINTS OF THE SEASONS .... $5.00 
AVESTA IN SONG (Mazdaznan Hymns) . . 1.00 

For further information as to prices, descriptive matter and 
other literature about the Mazdaznan system, address 

MAZDAZNAN 

3016-3018 Lake Park Avenue, Chicago, 111., U. S. A. 



I BENOLD'S PURE FOOD STORE I 

j* (Incorporated) * 

S And Bakery of the Genuine ^ 

I Unfermented Whole Wheat Bread I 

it 
ill 



S OUR SPECIALTIES: 



I 



I 



BENOLD'S Health Flour, made from selected wheat, freshly ® 



^ ground every day, on our own mill; contains all the nourish- §| 

^ ing ingredients of the entire kernel, per pound 05 \ft 

£ Unfermented Whole Wheat Bread is made from this flour 

* without baking powder or other injurious ingredients; rec- 

Sj ommended by Dr. Hanish and leading physicians against 

^ anemia, dyspepsia and constipation, 2 1-4 pound loaf . . .iS 

J BENOLD'S Nut-Butter is a pure vegetable product and con- ^^ 

S tains twice as much nourishment as cow's butter and four S 

g times as much as meat; it is rich in fat, albumen and nutri- ]* 



mi 



tive salts, therefore indispensable to all vegetarians, per lb. .30 g 

j| Coffee without Caffein, the procedure of preparing caffein- jj 

^ free coffee which has been patented in all civilized coun- ^ 

*b tries in the world. Experiments have proven that caffein- * 

jj free coffee can be used freely by sufferers from heart, nerve g 

^ or stom.ach ailments without experiencing evil; 1 1-2 lb. can .75 ^ 

^ BENOLD'S Acorn Cereal Coffee combines the healthful in- % 

^ gredients of the acorn with the nutritive properties of malted ik 

^ grains in an ideal form and has, therefore, a most beneficial ||| 

^ influence upon all organs, giving real strength and vitality to ^ 

iii the whole system and making a most effective remedy in iti 

^ all cases of nervousness, sleeplessness and general debility. * 

2 It is especially recommended for children, nursing mothers ^ 

>jlf and brain workers; 1 1-4 lb. package 25 * 

yja Hygieia Tea, as a curative, per package 50 S 

^ Dr. Lahmann's Babies' Compound Food, 3-4 lb. can . . . . .60 y^ 

J Vegetarian Specialties, All Mazdaznan Publications, also Books and J 

Of Magazines of Natural Healing, and Receipt Books for Meatless ^ 

'^ Dishes, Father Kneipp's Books, Herbs, Tinctures, Hygienic * 

^ Supplies. Importers, Manufacturers and Dealers in ^ 

t PURE NATURAL FOOD PRODUCTS t 

^ 240 North Ave. Chicago, III. J 

^ Notice— We send four loaves Unfermented Whole Wheat J 

■^ Bread, express prepaid, for $1.25. ^ 

* 1 



N^ 



NOV 29 1909 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 482 892 6 



