I MANN] 

TX 
1 663 

.165 

1909 





Albert^R. Mann pJbrary 

^X^'* Cornell University 




i 



COHNELL UNIVERSITY UBRARY 






3 1924 104 163 005 




The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924104163005 



TOLEDO 
PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



COURSE IN 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



COMPILED BY 

THE TEACHERS OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE IN 

THE GRAMMAR SCHOOLS 



1909 



TOLEDO, OHIO: 

THE B. F. WADE * SONS CO. 

PRINTERS 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



The object of this study is to promote neatness, order, economy 
and accuracy. 

Cooking Is the art o£ preparing food by means of heat for the 
nourishment of the human body. Food is cooked to develop new flavors, 
to make it more palatable and digestible, and to preserve it. 

Heat for cooking is obtained by the combustion of some inflam- 
mable substance, as oil, wood, coal, coke, charcoal, gas, gasoline and 
alcohol, and also from electricity. . 

The ripening of grain and fruit is natural cooking by the heat of 
the sun. v 

EliEMENTS ASD COMPOUNDS. 

Some substarrces are simple, consisting of but one thing, as iron, 
tin, oxygen or carbon. A simple substance is an element. Other sub- 
stances are composed of two or more elements, for example, water, 
carboni-dioxide, salt, etc. A substance composed of two or more ele- 
ments combined is a compound. In a mixture each substance keeps its 
own properties; in a compound these give place to new properties be- 
longing to the compound. 

PHYSIC.4TJ AST) CHEMICAL CHANGES. 

Change in the form of matter without change in its composition 
is called a physical change, as the evaporation or freezing of water, 
the melting of butter or lard. 

A change in the composition of matter is called a chemical change, 
such as the rusting of iron, the burning of wood or the burning of 
sugar. 

TO BUILD A FIRE. 

Open the direct drafts, remove the ashes from the firebox and 
brush the under side bf the lids. Put crumpled paper over the bottoin 
of the box, lay fine soft wood cross-wise, then larger pieces of wood, 
with g, little soft coal on top. When the stove is blackened, start the 
fire from the grate in front. Liquid polish should not be used when the 
stove is hot. 

Wherever oxygen unites with another substance so rapidly that 
light and heat are given off, the result is burning or combustion. 

CLEANLINESS AND CLEANING. 

Dirt is anything unclean. It may be wet or dry. Dry dirt is called 
dust. There are two kinds of dust, visible or lifeless dust, such as the 
dust that collects on furniture, and Invisible or living dust, such as 
germs and molds. Bacteria or germs are tiny plants — many of which 
are useful. Others cause diseases, as consumption, typhoid fever and 
diphtheria. Disinfectants kill disease germs. The simplest are .sun- 
shine, fresh air and boiling water. Antiseptics do not kill germs, but 
prevent their growth. 



nrSHW ASHING. 

Dishwashiii'g is drudgery, only when made so by poor methods. 
Collect all dishes, scraping and rinsing them well and pile all of a 
kind together near the dish-pan. Wipe the table to have a place to put 
clean dishes. Have the dish-pan half full of hot soapy water and the 
drainer near. . Do Hot leave the soap in the water, but replace In soap- 
dish. Wash the dishes in the following order: glass, cups, saucers, sil- 
ver, plates, larger dishes and platters, tins and cooking utensils. 
Rinse all dishes in hot water before wiping. Have plenty of dry towels. 
When all dishes are washed, rinsed and wiped, put in their proper 
places. Empty the dish-water. Do not put the handles of case knives 
or forks In the the water, as this cracks and loosens them. Be careful 
not to wet the cogs of Dover egg beaters. Wash the lower part, and 
wipe the handle with a damp cloth, as the water makes them turn hard.. 
L'se wire dish rings for scraping the iron ware. Use Sapolio for remov- 
ing the burnt food or for discolored enamel ware. Wash tea and coffee 
pots in hot water without soap, cleansing the spouts. Rinse in hot 
water, dry and allow to stand open for a while. Soak dishes that have 
contained starchy foods, milk or eggs in- cold water; those having con- 
tained sugar in hot water. Wipe greasy dishes with soft paper and 
soak in hot water. Polish steel knives and forks with Sapolio or i>ow- 
dered scouring brick, rubbing with a cork. Clean silver with whiting 
and soft cloth; polish with chamois. Scrub moulding boards with the 
grain of the wood, using a scrub brush and Sapolio. Wash dish and 
rinsing pan and wipe dry with a towel. 

CARE OP DISH TOWELS AND CLOTHS. 

Great care should be taken with the towels and cloths used in 
housekeeping, as they may be a fertile source of disease. Have dish 
towels and cloths neatly hemmed and use them only for the purpose 
for. which they were'intended. Have two cloths, one for the dishes and 
one for the sink. Wash the dish towels once a day in hot soapy water 
and the cloths after each meal. Hang in the sun to dry. 

CARE OF SINK. 

When the dish washing is finished, clean every part of the sink 
with hot soapy water, scouring if necessary. Keep the sink at all times 
free from scraps. If it is of iron, wipe dry after washing. Wipe the 
woodwork. Wash the strainer, soap dish and other sink utensils. 
Plush the sink with boiling water every day and once a week with a 
strong solution of washing soda. Keep the faucets bright and clean. 

CARE OF REFRIGERATOR. 

The refrigerator should be kept scrupulously clean. No food 
should be left in it long enough to spoil. Keep the food chamber dry 
Clean the refrigerator thor(iughly once a week, washing with hot soap 
suds or borax. Put the shelves in the sun or near the fire to dry. 
Rinse the waste pipe with a sal soda solution. 



TABLE SERVICE. 

Much of the comfort and cheerfulness of the family depends upon 
proper service at the table. No matter how plain the linen? and table- 
ware, they should be well cared for and arranged in an orderly and 
attractive manner. A few flowers or a small plant will do much to 
brighten the T,abl«. The cloth should be long enough to hang well 
around the table. Under the cloth, place a silence cloth of canton flan- 
nel or felt. Place the tablecloth with the folds straight and parallel 
with the edges. 

Place the knife on the right side with the sharp edge toward the 
plate. 

Place the fork on the left side with the tiwes up. 

Place ]the soup spoon at the right of the knife, bowl up. 

Place the teaspoons at the right of the kn'ives or at the top of the 
plate as space permits. 

Place the glass at the right hand side above the knives. 

Place the butter or the bread and butter plate at the upper left 
hand side. 

Place carving knife and fork at the right of the carver. 

Place extra tablespoons for serving at the right of the server. 

When finger bowls are used put them on dessert plates with a 
doily underneath. 

When the hostess pours the tea or coffee arrange the service neat- 
ly in front of her. 

Arrange the chairs at sufficient distance from the table so they 
need not be drawn' out when people are seated. 

ritjEs for serving. 

Heat the dishes for food that is to be served hot. • ' 

When passing a dish hold it so the thumb will not rest upon the 
upper surface. 

In passing dishes from which a person is to help himself, pass 
always to the left side, holding the tray firmly and low, so that food 
may be taken with the right hand. 

In passing individual dishes such as coffee and soup, set them 
down carefully from the right side. 

When the dishes are being served by a person at the table, the 
waitress should stand at the left, holding the tray low and near the 
table. Take 'on the tray one plate at a time and place in front of the 
person for whom it is intended, setting down from the right side. 

As each course is finished, remove the individual dishes one at a 
time, never piling them on top of each other. Then take away those 
holding food. 

Fill the glasses before every course, without removing them from 
the table. Never fill tliem more than three-fourths full, handling near 
the bottom. 

Before the dessert is served, remove the crumbs from the cloth 
with a brush, crumb knife or napkin. Do not let the table become dis- 
orderly during a meal. 



6 

The waitress should be neatly gowned, and sjiould wear a white 
apron. She should move quietly, not woticing the conversation of those 
seated at the table, and be duick to anticipate their wants. 



FOODS. 



. Protein ' ! 

or ■■ 

Tissue building foods 



Organic. 



Albumen in egg. 
Casein in milk. 
Fibrin in meat. 
Gluten in wheat. 
Legumen la peas and 
beans. 



3. Carbo-Hydrates 

or 
Fat. heat and ener- 
gy producing foods. 

3. Fat 

or 
Heat producing 
food. 



I Starch and ' 



Sugar. 



I Vegetable fat. 
] Animal fat. 

I 



Inorganic. '! 



r Salt. 
I Lime. 
\ Potash. 
Bone forming food. | Sulphur. 
Iron. 



1. Mineral Matter 

or 



2. Water. 



{' 



The solvent. 



DIGESTION OF FOOD. 

All food is changed into liquid form before it can be taken into 
the blood, to build up wornout tissues. Thorough mastication greatly 
aids this. 

The first step in digestion: In the mouth the food is crushed and 
mixed with saliva, which changes some of the starch to sugar. 

Second step: In the stomach the gastric juice dissolves part of 
the proteins. 

Third step: In the intestines, the bile, paocreatlc and intestinal 
juices act upon the food in three ways: 

First — The rest of the starch is changed to sugar. 
. Second — The rest of the protein is digested. 

Third — ^^he fat is divided into small drops and mixed all through 
the food, just as the cream is mixed through milk before it rises to the 
top. 

HINTS ON HOW TO WORK. 

See that the fire is ready for use, or so arranged that it will be 
ready by the time it is needed. 

Collect all materials and utensils that will be needed, including a 
pan on which to lay sticky knives, spoons, egg beaters, etc. 

Take care not to make work for yourself by using more utensils 
than are necessary. 



When milk and eggs are used, save a little of the milk to rinse 
out the bowl in which the eggs are beaten. 

Use an earthen bowl and a wooden or granite spoon for mixing 
cakes, muffins, etc. 

Have all materials ready for use, flour sifted aad measured, eggs 
broken, raisins stoned, pans greased, etc. 

Cover the flour barrel, sugar can, baking powder can, soda, spices 
and vanilla as soon as you have taken from them what is needed. 

Clear up as you work, putting dishes to soak as soon as they are 
emptied and washing them at once it you. have a moment to spare. 
Learn to work neatly, carefully, quietly and quickly. 

PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 

Observe the following rules in the. school kitchen and at home: 

Always wear an apron lar^e enough to cover your dress well. 

Before touching or preparing any food, wash hands thoroughly 
with soap and water; scrub the nails with the nail brusn and clean 
them with a nail file. Keep a damp towel to wipe your fingers when 
they become soiled or sticky. Always wipe them after touching your 
hair or handkerchief, but never on your apron, handkerchief or dish 
towel. 

The best way to taste of what you are cooking is to take a Uttle of 
the food up with the mixing spoon, put it in a teaspoon, and taste from 
the teaspoon. If you should happen to taste from the mixing spoon, 
wash It before putting back in the dish. 

MEX«ODS OF COOKING. 

Boiling is cooking in boiling water. 

Steaming is cooking over boiling water. 

Stewing is cooking In a small quantity of water for a long time at 
a low temperature. 

Broiling is cooking directly over a clear fire. 

Pan>-broiling is cooking in a hissing hot pan without any fat. 

Sauteing is cooking is a small quantity of fat. 

Frying is cooking in deep fat, raised to a temperature of 350- to 
400 degrees F. 

Baking Is cooking In the dry heat of the oven. 

Braising is a form of stewing in a covered pan in the oven. 

Roasting is cooking before an open fire or in a hot oven in Its own 

fat. 

METHOnS OF COMBINING INGREDIENTS. 

Stirring: Hold the bowl flat on the table and the spoon so the 
bottom will scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl — stir round and 
round until you cannot tell one ingredient from the other. 

Beating: Tip the bowl slightly, hold the spoon so the side will 
scrape the bottom and side of the bowl; bring the spoon up through 
the mixture with a long quick stroke to the other side and continue 
until light and full of bubbles. 

Folding: Bring the material from below gently over the ingredi- 
ent added and contirue to cut and fold until thoroughly mixed, but do 
not beat nor stir. 



WETGHTS AND MEASURES. 
(All ingredients in these recipes are measured level.) 

All dry materials should be sifted before measuring. 

A cupful is even full to the top. 

A scant cup is one in which the material is one-fourth inch from 
the top. 

To measure a cupful, put the ingredients in by spoonfuls, round 
slightly and level with a knife, taking care not to shake the cup, as this 
packs the ingredients. 

A level spooBful is ope in which the material is even with the 
edge of the spoon. < One half a spoonful is measured by dividing 
through the middle lengthwise. 

"Butter melted" is butter measured before melting. 

"Melted butter" is butter measured after melting. 

Table of Abbreviations. 

tsp. — teaspoon. hr. — hour, 

tbsp. — tablespoon. qt.^»— quart. 

C. — cup. Pft — pint, 

spk. — speck. lb. — pound. 

Mlrf. — minute. oz. — ounce. 

Table of Measures and Weights. 

3 tsp. — Itbsp. 4 c. flour — 1 lb. 

16 tbsp. — 1 c. 2 c. solid butter — 1 lb. 

8 oz. — 1 c. liquid. 2 c. granulated sugar — 1 lb. 

2 gills — 1 c. 3 c. cornmeal — 1 lb. 

2 c. — 1 pt. 2 2-3 c. powdered sugar — 1 lb. 

2 pts. — 1 qt. 2 2-3 c. brown sugar — 1 lb. 

4 qts. — 1 gal. juice one lemon — 3 tbsp. 

SUPPIiEMENTARY WORK. 

First Year. 

Important recipes to be committed and made in class from 
memory. 

A lesson on setting table and planning a simple breakfast, to be 
followed the next lesson by the breakfast served during the regular 
class period to selected pupils. 

L«ssons on cleaning different utensils given in conjunction with 
regular lessons during the course. 

IjESSON I. 
starch. — Dry Heat. 

When starch is subjected to dry heat, it loses its character as 
starch, becoming dextrine. This is much more easily digested than 
starch. The change is similar to that which takes place in the mouth 
when starchy food is mixed with saliva. 

Croutons. 

Cut stale bread into one-half inch slices,, remove crust, and cut 
bread Into %-inch cubes. Brown in a hot oven and serve with soup. 



9 

Bread Gnimbs, 

Dry broken pieces of bread in a moderate oven till crisp but not 
brown. Crush fine with a rolling pin, or in a meat grinder; if rolled, 
sift them. Keep in closely covered glass jar or can. 

To Butter Crumbs. 

2 tbsp. butter. 1 c. crumbs. Melt butter, add crumbs, awd stir 
lightly with a fork until all crumbs are evenly coated. 

LESSON 2. 
Water. 

Put a pan of cold water over the Are and watch it. Soon little 
bubbles form on the edge and bottom of the pan. This is the air in the 
water which is expanded by the heat. The bubbles break as they reach 
the colder water near the top, and the cold water beln-g heavier, goes 
to the bottom- A slight motion is the result and the water is said to 
be simmering. The temperature is then 180 degrees F. After a while 
all of the water becomes very hot. Larger bubbles form, breaking 
above the surface, causing a bubbling all over the top, and the water 
boils. The temperature is then about 212 degrees. After the water 
has reached the boiling point, it can be made no hotter under ordinary 
circumstances. 

ITses of Water in the Body. 

To quench thii'st. 

To thin blood. 

To aid digestion. 

To regulate the temperature. 

To assist the circulatory system. 

To stimulate the nervous system. 

To carry off waste. 

The primary service of beverages or drinks is quench thirst. 
Thirst being the body's demand for water, water is the best of bever- 
ages, other drinks satisfyiHg thirst simply by means of the water they 
contain. While not nutritious, tea and coffee are useful food adjuncts, 
because tljey prevent tissues from wearing away. Both contain tannin, 
a substance Injurious to the stomach and developed by boiling. They 
are much alike in composition, the difference being in the aromatic oils 
they contain. 

Tea. 

Tea is valued chiefly for its theine, a stimulating property, if not 
taken in excess. It also contains tannin, a bitter substance, which is 
used in making ink and tanning leather. 

Tea consists of the dried leaves of an evergreen shrub, a native of 
China, though it is cultivated- in other countries. Only the young 
leaves and buds are picked for the market, the youngest making the 
finest tea. 

Freshly pifked leaves, rolled and dried quickly by artificial heat, 
keep their natural color and are sold as green tea. Black tea is pro- 



10 

duced from leaves left in heaps upon the ground, to darken aHd de- 
velop a different flavor before being rolled. Both teas come from one 
kind of shTub. 

Coffee. 

Coffee is the seed or "berry" of the cherry-like fruit of a tropical 
evergreen, each fruit containing two berries. When the fruit begins to 
shrivel, it is shaken to the ground and dried until the seeds can easily 
be separated from the pulp. To do this, the seeds are run between 
wooden rollers, after which they are roasted in a revolving cylinder. 
In roasting, great care must be taken to have the degree of heat that 
will develop the best flavor and aroma. 

Buy freshly roasted and unground coffee, and grind it at home 
as needed, as ground coffee may be mixed with cheaper materials. 
Use an? enameled or earthen coffee pot. 

Tea. 

Scant % tsp. tea. 1 c. boiling water. 

Scald tea pot, put in the tea, and pour over it the freshly boiling 
water. Steep for 5 min., but do not boil. 

Coffee. 

2 tbsp. coffee. 2 tbsp. cold water. 

% tsp. egg or '4 crushed egg shell. 1 c. boiling water. 

Scald coffee pot, mix coffee, egg and cold water. Put m the coffee 
pot, and pour over it the freshly boiling water. Boil 3 to 5 mia. and 
let stand 10 min. in a warm place. Pour out % c. and return to coffee 
pot, to clear the spout of grounds. Add a dash of cold water. This 
being heavier than hot water, goes to the bottom, carrying the grounds 
with it. 

A general rule for coffee is to allow 2 tbsp. for each person, and 
2 extra tbsp. for the coffee pot, with 1 c. boiling water for each 2 tbsp. 
of coffee. In making coffee in large quantities, it is not necessary to 
allow the extra coffee. 

Toast Water. 

(Invalid Cookery.) 
Equal measures of stale bread, toasted, and of boiling water. 
Cut bread into thin slices, put into a pan? and dry in a slow oven 
until brown and crisp. Break into small pieces; pour over it the boil- 
ing water and let stand 1 hr. Strain, season with salt, • reheat and 
serve. 

Apple Water. No. I. 
(Invalid Cookery.) 

Bake apple until tender. Put in a bowl, cover with 1 qt boiling 
water. Cover and let stand until cold. Strain, add sugar if desired. 

Apple Water. No. II. 

(Invalid Cookery.) 
Pare apple and slice fine. Cover with 1 c. boiling water. Stand 
until cold. Strain and sweeten to taste. 



11 

liESSON 3. 

Water — Continued. 

Fruits. 

All fruits contain large quantities of water, some organic salts, 
mineral matter, sugar and acid. They have little food value, but on 
account of their medicinal properties, they should be more generally 
used. 

Many fruits are preserved by drying. They should be soaked in 
cold water for several hours, or over night, to supply the water lost 
by evaporation. 

Gelatine. 

Gelatine is a transparent, jelly-like substance obtained from the 
tendons and bones of animals. Most fruits contain a substance similar 
to this, called pectin, which causes the juice to jelly when heated with 
sugar. 

Gelatine is insoluble in cold water, but soluble in boiling water. 
Never cook gelatine, as this develops a disagreeable flavor. 

To Cook Dried Fruits. 

Pick over and wash in several waters. Soak over night or several 
hours in cold water, and simmer in the same water until soft. Sweeten 
to taste and cool. 

Apricot Jelly. 

% lb. dried apricots. Juice of 1 lemon. 

2 c. cold water.'' % box granulated gelatine soaked in 

1 c. sugar. 14 c. cold water. 

Wash apricots, soak in the water several hours. Cook iir the same 
water till soft. Remove apricots and cut in small pieces. To apricot 
juice add boiling water to make 1 pt. Add soaked gelatine, sugar and 
lemon juice. Strain, add apricots and pour into a mold. Stir twice 
while cooling, to prevent apricots from settlirrg. Serve with whipped 
and sweetened cream. 

Baked Apples. 

Wipe apples, and core if desired. Put in a baking dish and fill 
the centers with sugar. If not cored, sprinkle with 1 tbsp. sugar for 
each apple. Cover the bottom of the dish with boiling water and bake 
in a moderate oven from 20 to 30 min. or until soft. A little spice 
may be added. 

Apple Sauce. ' 

6 sour apples. Water. 

Sugar and nutmeg or cinnamon to taste. 

Wash, pare and slice apples. Put in a sauce pan with the water, 
cover and cook until soft. Mash, add sugar and spice and 1 tsp. of 
butter. 

Cranberries. 

2 c. cranberries. 1 c. sugar. 
- , c. cold water. 

Pick oyer and wash cranberries, put into a granite sauce pan. 



12 

Sprinkle the sugar over them, add the water and after they begin to 
boil, cook slowly 10 mln. closely covered without stirring. For jelly, 
strain the fruit before sugar is added. 

IvESSON 4. 
Milk. 

Milk, when pure, forms a perfect food and contains all the neces- 
sary elements to support life. It consists of sugar, water, rat, mineral 
matter, albumen and casein. Care should be taken when milk is 
received that is is placed In clean dishes kept for the purpose. Upon 
exposure to impurities, milk easily absorbs germs, thus making it a 
fertile source of disease. The fat rises to the top, when milk is allowed 
to stand, in the form of cream, and may be separated from the rest of 
the milk. 

When milk stands in a warm place a chaage occurs, by which the 
casein solidifies and the whey or watery part separates from it. The 
change is called souring. The' curd thus obtained may be made into 
cheese. Because milk is thicker than water, it boils at a higher tem- 
perature, sticking to the pan and burning easily. The presence of a 
little sour milk in a pan containing sweet milk will soon cause the 
whole to become sour. Dishes in which milk is kept, should be thor- 
oughly scalded after washing, and dried in the sun if possible. 

Butter is made from the fat of milk. Churning separates the fat. 
It is then washed to free it of the buttermilk, and salted. Butter may 
be made from either sour or sweet cream. 

Absolute cleanliness is necessary to produce wholesome butter. 

Dutch Cheese. 

Heat slowly, thick sour milk on the back of the stove or in a 
pan of hot water. As soon as the curd separates from the whey, strain 
through a cloth, allowing it to drip until rather dry. Put in a bowl 
and stir with a fork, adding salt, pepper and cream to taste. 

Junket. 

1 pt. milk. Yi c. sugar. 

% tsp. vanilla. 

Itbsp. liquid rennet or 1 junket tablet dissolved in 1 tbsp. water. 

Heat milk in a double boiler till lukewarm. Add sugar and stir 
till dissolved. Stir in vanilla and rennet and pour into a dish. Let 
stand In a warm place u'ndisturbed until It thickens, then set in a cool 
place till firm. Sprinkle with cinnamon or nutmeg and serve with 
cream and sugar. 

Chocolate. 

All preparations of cocoa or chocolate and cocoa shells are the 
products of the seeds of the cacao tree. These seeds, called Qocoa 
beans, which are about the size of almonds, lie surrounded by a fibrous 
pulp, in a brownish yellow pod about a foot long, which grows from 
the trunk or large limbs of the tree, ■ instead of the branches. 

The seeds are separated from the pods, allowed to ferment on the 



13 

ground and are then roasted. The thin shell is removed, the kernel 
cracked and broken into small pieces. These cocoa nibs are then 
ground, forming a smooth paste, which is poured into moulds for bitter 
chocolate, or sweetened and moulded for sweet chocolate. For cocoa, 
the fat is extracted under pressure and the remainder powdered. 

Chocolate. 

1 or 2 sq. Baker's chocolate. 1 pt. water. 
3 tbsp. sugar. 1 pt. milk. 

Put chocolate with water into sauce pan. Heat until the chocolate 
melts. Add sugar and boil 10 min. Add milk, bring to a boil and beat 
2 min. with a Dover egg beater. 

LESSON 5. 

Milk — Continu ed. 

Milk Toast. 

Scald milk, add butter and salt to taste. Pour over toast and 

serve at once. 

Rice Pudding. No. I. 

% c. rice. % c. sugar. % tsp. salt. 1 qt. milk. 

Wash rice, mix ingredients, pour into a pudding dish. Bake from 
2 to 3 hours in a very slow oven at first, then let it brown slightly. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Rice Pudding. No. II. 

2 c. cooked rice. % c. sugar. 

% c. falsing. Vanilla or cinnamon. 

1 c. milk. 

Mix all together, put into a pudding dish and bake until brown 
An egg, thoroughly beaten, may be added if desired. 

LESSON 6. 

Milk — Continued. 

Blanc Mange. 

Vi c. cornstarch. 1 pt. milk. 

1,^ c. sugar. Lemon rind or cinnamon- 

% tsp. salt. stick. 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt. Add scalded milk, lemon rind or 
cinnamon stick. Cook 20 min. in a double boiler. Remove rind or 
cinnamon stick and pour into moulds, wet in cold water. Cool and 
serve with cream and sugar or boiled custard. 

Minute Pudding- ' 

4 tbsp. flour. 2 c. milk. % tsp. salt. 

Mix flour and salt with % c. of the milk. Scald remainder of the 
milk and thicken with the flour paste. Cook 20 min. Serve with cream 
and sugar or preserves. 

LESSON 7. 
Albumen — ^Eggs. 
Eggs contain all the necessary food elements for the support of 
life, except starch, but as they are highly concentrated they are usually 



]4 

combined with some other food. They should be kept in a cool, dark 
place and carefully handled. 

The shell is composed of carbonate of lime and magnesia; the 
Tvhite of albumen, mineral matter and water; the yolk of fat, albumen, 
sulphur and phosphorus. 

To tell whether an egg is fresh; first observe the shell. A fresh 
egg has a thick rough shell. Second, hold the end of an egg between 
your eyes and the light; if it is clear it is fresh, if cloudy it is stale. 
Third, drop an egg into cold water; if It sinks it is fresh; if it floats it 
is stale. Fourth, shake the egg, holding it near the ear; if the corr- 
tents rattle it is not fresh. 

When eggs are used to thicken and enrich a mixture they are 
beaten slightly. When they are used to raise a mixture they are beat- 
en very light. 

Albumen when heated becomes a dense white solid. If mixed and 
heated with a liquid it hardens and entangles in its meshes any solids 
or impurities in the liquid, rising to the surface with them as scum or 
sinking to the bottom as sediment. It is thus the white of an egg 
clears coffee, soups and Jellies. 

Strong .acids, corrosive sublimate and creosote, which are 'active 
poisons, will also harden albumen. Therefore, if any of them are taken 
into the stomach, the white of an egg swallowed quickly, will combine 
with" them and protect the stomach. 

Hard Cooked Eggs. 
Cook eggs in water just below the boiling point 20 mln. If to be 
shelled, drop into cold water. 

Soft Cooked Eggs. 
Cook eggs in water just below the boiling point from six to ten 
minutes. Serve at once, as they harden if allowed to stand in the hot 
shell. 

Poached Eggs. 
Toast a slice of bread for each egg. Before toasting, trim neatly, 
or cut with a round cutter. Scrape off any burnt portion. Have a 
very clean shallow pan nearly full of boiling salted water. Remove all 
of the scum and let the water simmer. Break each egg gently into a 
saucer and slip it into the water. If the egg is not entirely covered 
by water,, dip water over it with a spoon and when a film has formed 
on the yolk take up each egg with a skimmer. Drain, trim the eggs 
and place on the buttered toast. Put a piece of butter and a little salt 
and pepper on each egg, 

LESSON 8. 
Eggs — Continued. - 

Eggs and egg mixtures should be cooked at a low temperature.. 
Boiled Custard. 

2 c. milk. i,j, tsp. salt. 

Yolks of three eggs. 14 tsp. vanilla. 

% c. sugar. 

Scald the milk. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt. Pour the 
hot milk gradually on the eggs, stirring constantly. Cook in a double 



15 

boiler till the mixture thickens and a coating is formed on the spoon. 
Take custard from fire before it is done, as the heat of the boiler cooks 
it even while it is being turned out. If it begins to curdle, set the upper 
part of the double boiler immediately into a pan of cold water and 
beat with a Dover egg beater. Strain if necessary, cool and flavor. 
The whites of eggs may bo beaten and sweetened with powdered sugar, 
using 1 tbsp. of sugar for each egg. Put in a pan' on top of hot water, 
and bake till brown in the oven, or cook by dropping from a spoon in 
hot water, on the top of the stove. Serve on the custard. 

Baked Custard. 

1 pt. milk. 6 tbsp. sugar. 

2 or 3 eggs. % tsp. salt. 

Scald the milk. Add the sugar and salt to the beaten eggs, and 
pour the milk slowly over them. Put in a buttered baking dish, grate 
nutmeg over the top. Set the dish in a' pan of hot water, and bake till 
a knife, when inserted, will come out clean. If baked too long, the 
custard will separate and become watery. 

I-ESSON 9. 
Preservation of Meat and Fish. 

Meat may be preserved by keeping in cold storage, by salting, 
smoking, canning and pickling. The nutriment in meat is Impaired 
by most methods of preservation. 

To freshen salt meat or fish, soak In cold water according to its 
saltn'ess or hardness. 

Creamed Dried Beef. 

1/4 lb. dried beef. 4 tbsp. flour. 

2 tbsp. butter. H c. cold water. 

1 pt. milk. Pepper. 

Saute the dried beef in hot butter until it curls up. Pour the milk 
over it. Mix flour and water until 'smooth. Add to the milk and beef 
and cook until it thickens. Serve on toast. If beef is very salty soak 
in cold water and drain before frying. 

Creamed Codfish. 

Vi lb. codfish. 2 tbr^p. butter. 

1 pt. milk. ' ■ Pepper. 

4 tbsp. flour. 

Shred the codfish and remove all the bones. Cover with cold' 
water an-d boil 2 min. Drain and add the milk. Cream the butter 
and flour, add hot milk till thin enough to pour. Stir Into the milk" 
and codfish. Cook until it thickens. To ma,ke it richer add the beaten 
yolks of one or two eggs. Cook one minute and serve. 

LESSON 10. 

Preserved Meal — Continued. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Slice ham % in. thick. Trim off rind and rusty edges. Put in a. 

hot frying pan and cook 10. min. or till brown on both sides. Serve on 

a warm platter. 



16 

Drop eggs, one by one, into the fat In the pan. Dip the fat over 
them, and cook until the yolks are set. Put them on the platter with 
the ham, an-d sprinkle with salt and pepper. If ham is very salty, soak 
1 min. before cooking. 

Pan-Broiled Bacon. 

Slice bacon thin and remove rind. Put in a hot frying pan and 
cook until brown, and turw once. Pour off the fat as it fries. Drain 
well and serve. 

Sausage in Casings. 

Cover with hot water, simmer 5 to 10 min. Drain and cook in 
the pan in its own fat until brown an<d tender. Prick with a fork 
occasionally to allow the fat to escape. 

Sansage Meat. 

Shape into round, flat cakes, and pan-broil in their own fat until 
thoroughly cooked and browned. 

LESSON 11. 
Oysters. 

Raw oysters are easily digested, but the Hutritive value is not in 
proportion to the cost. The natural tint of the oyster is gray; white 
ones may be diseased. The green tinge sometimes seen is due to vege- 
table matter in its food and is not harmful. 

Oyster Soup. 

% pt. oysters. 1 tsp. salt. 

1 pt. milk. Pepper. 

1 tbsp. butter. 

Heat the milk while you are preparing the oysters. Put oysters 
in a strainer and pour over them % c. cold water. Take each oyster 
with Sogers, to make sure that no pieces of shell or Sieaweed adhere. 
Put lictuor on stove; as it boils remove scum, and when clear add with 
the butter to milk. Season, add oysters, and let thorn simmer until 
plump and the edges curl. Serve at once. If the oysters are cooked 
too long they become tough and indigestible. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

1 pt. oysters. ] y„ c crumbs. 

4 tbsp. oyster liquor. • 3 tbsp. melted butter. 

6 tbsp. milk, or enough Salt, 

to moisten". Pepper. 

Stir the melted butter into the crumbs. Put in a baking dish a 
layer of oysters, prepared as for soup, then a layer of crumbs. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and add part of the milk and oyster liquor. Re- 
peat, covering the top with crumbs. Bake 30 minutes in a hot oven. 
Two layers of oysters are sufficient. If more are used, the center layer 
may be underdon'e. 



17 

LESSON 12. 
Cream Soiipsi 

Cream soups and purees are made by adding cooked and strained 
vegetables to a thin -white sauce. 

Soup. 

Soup is one of the most nutritious and economical of foods, and 
its use sltould be more general. Much good food that is thrown away 
might be used in making soup. There are two classes of soup, those 
with and those without stock, ^tock soups have meat as a basis; 
those without stock are made with milk as a foundation*. These, 
called cream soups, are quickly prepared. They must be thickened 
slightly or the vegetables in them will separate. 

General Proportion for Cream Sonps. 

1 cit. milk. 1 to 4 tbsp. flour. 

1 to 2 c. vegetable pulp. 1 tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. butter. Pepper to taste. 

General Directions. 

Cook vegetables in water till soft; press through a strainer. Scald 
the milk, add the pulp and thicken with butter and flour. Season, bring 
to a boil and serve. 

Potato Soup. 

% c. mashed' potato. V2 tsp. celery salt. 

1 pt. milk. 2 tbsp. butter. 

1 slice onion. 1 tbsp. flour. 
% tsp. salt. 1 stalk celery. 
Pepper. 

Cook the onion and celery with the milk In double boiler 15 min. 
and add mashed potato. Rub through a strainer and put on to cook 
again. Thicken with butter and flour, season, let boll 5 min. and 
serve. 

White Sauce. 

2 tbsp. butter. 1 c. milk. 

2 tbsp. flour. % tsp. salt. 

Melt butter, add flour and salt and stir until smooth. Pour In milk 
gradually and cook till It thickens. 

Mock Bisque or Tomato Soup. 

1 can tomatoes. 4 tbsp. flour. 

1 qt. milk. 3 tbsp. butter. 

14 tsp. soda. 1 tsp. salt. 

Pepper. 

Stew tomatoes till soft, strain and add the soda. Heat milk in a 
double boiler. Thicken with butter and flour and cook 10 min. Add 
seasoning and hot tomatoes last, as milk cooked with acid is sure to 
curdle. Serve at once. If the soup should curdle, beat it with a Dover 
egg beater. 



18 



LESSON 13. 



Meat is the name applied to the flesh of all animals used for food. 
The flesh of young animals is more tender but not as nutritious as that 
of older ones. The muscles used most are toughest but contain more 
nourishment, as the blood flows freely through them. In cookiirg meat 
the greatest amount of nutriment should be extracted from it. 

There are three ways of cooking meats in water: First, when all 
the nutriment is to be kept in the meat, as in meat boiled whole or 
pot roasts. Seconrd, when part of the nourishment is to be in the meat 
and part In the water, as in stews. Third, when all the nutriment is 
drawn out into the water, as in soup. 

Stock. 

Stock is the liquid extract of meat and bone. In cookiirg meat 
for soup, all the nutriment should be drawn into the water. Meat is 
largely composed of fibers. Cold water softens the fibers and draws 
out the juices, while hot water hardens the surface. 

To Make Soups. 

Cut the meat in small pieces to expose all the surface possible, affd 
put it into cold water with salt, allowing it to stand or soak one-half 
hour before heating it, to draw out the juices. Heat gradually and 
simmer till the meat is in shreds, the bones clean, and all the nutri- 
meift possible Is extracted. This will take 6 or 7 hours. Cheap cuts 
of meat are used for soup, as the shin or rump bone of beef, or the 
knuckle of veal. The water in which fresh meats are boiled may be 
cooked down, seasoned and used as stock. 

The cover of the kettle should fit closely to keep in the steam. 
When the meat is ih shreds, strain and allow the soup to cool so that 
the fat may come to the surface in* the form of a cake and be removed. 
The stock may then be reheated and served alone, or with the addition 
of other ingredients^ 

About two-thirds of the meat should be lean, the other third 
bone and fat. 

Do not wash meat by putting in water to soak, but wash quickly 
with wet cloth. 

A General Rule for Stock: 

2 lbs. shin of beef. 4 cloves, 

2 tsp. salt. 1 tsp. mixed herbs, 

2 qt. cold water. ' i sprig parsley, 

14 tsp. <;elery seed. % small turnip, 

8 peppercorns, 1 small onion, 

4 allspice, 2 small carrots. 

:, Wipe and cut the meat and bone in small pieces. Put into the 
water with salt, and soak % hour before heating; heat gradually, and 
let simmer 5 hours. Add vegetables cut in dice attd seasoning and 
simmer 1 to 2 hours longer. Strain and cool quickly. When ready for 
use, remove all fat, reheat and season to taste. 



19 



Vegetable Soup. 

1 qt. stock, 1/2 c. celery. 

1 pt. boiling water, 1 tbsp. rice. 

% carrot, y^ c. tomatoes, 

% turnip, Vz c. potatoes, 

14 c. onioif, % c. corn. 

Cut vegetables into uniform pieces. Boil carrot, turnip, rice, 

onion and celery in water 20 minutes. Add other vegetables and cook 

until tender. Add stock, and salt and pepper, to taste. Boil up once 
and serve. 



LESSON 14. 

^ Beef. 

Beef is the most nutritious and generally used of all the animal 
foods. It is divided by splitting the back-bone into two parts each 
called a side of beef. Each side is then divided into a fore and hind 
quarter; Good beef should be bright red irr color, firm, fine grained, 
well marbled with fat and with a thick layer of fat on the outside. The 
fat should be a rich cream color and the suet dry and crumbly. Beef 
should not be eaten as soon as killed, but hang to ripen two or three 
weeks. The best beef is obtained from an animal four or five years old. 
It is in season the year around. 



Beef Chart. 




1. Rump for corning. 

2. Top-rump used for pot roast and stews. 

3. Round used for steaks and dried beef. 

4. Lower end of round used for hamburg steak. 



20 

5. Shin, used for soup. 

6. Tenderloin, used for steaks. 

7. Sirloin, used for steaks. 

8. Top-sirloin, used for steaks. 

9. Porterhouse, used for steaks. 

10. First cut ribs, prime ribs used for roast. 

11. Second cut ribs, prime ribs used for roast. 

12. Third cut ribs, used for roast. 

13. Fourth cut or chuok ribs, used for roasts. 

14. Cross ribs, used for roasts and stews. 

15. Chuck, used for steak. 

16. Flank, used for steak. 

17. Flanks, used for cornin'g and stewing. 
IS. Plate, used for corning and stewing. 
19. Xavel, used for corning and stewing. 

2 0. Shoulder, used for steak and roast. 

21. Neck, used for mince meat. 

22. Brisket, used for cornin'g. 

23. Pore-shin, used for soup. 

Other I'arts of TJeef Used as Food. 

Brain, used for croquettes. 

Tongue, used for boiling (smoked or fresh). 

Heart, to be stuffed and baked. 

Liver to be sauted. 

Tripe, (fourth stomach) to be pickled or sauted fresh. 

Suet, to be used for puddings and mince-meat. 

Tail, to be used for soup. 

Pot Roast. 

Sear the cut sides of the meat in a hot kettle, add 1 c. of hot water, 
season with salt and pepper and keep just below the boiling point. Add 
water only as necessary to keep from burning. Cover closely and cook 
slowly until very tender or from two to three hours. Remove meat and 
make a gravy In the kettle. 

Gravy. 

Pour off all but 4 tbsp. of fat from the kettle. Add 4 tbsp. of flour 
and stir until brown. Add slowly 2 c. boiling water. Cook until 
thick and smooth. Season with salt and pepper. 

Cottage Pie. 

Chop cold meat fine. To every cupful of meat add % c. of gravy 
or stock, season highly with salt and pepper and% tsp. summer savory. 
Put into a baking dish and cover with a crust of mashed potatoes. 
Bake 2 min. or uBtil brown. Serve in the dish in which it is baked. 

Beef Hash. 

2 c. cooked beef, % c. water, 

2 c. boiled potatoes, 2 tbsp. butter or drippings, 

% small onion, minced, Salt and pepper to taste. 



21 



Remove bones, gristle and fat from the meat and chop with the 
potatoes. Put water and onion in the frying-pan, add butter or drip- 
pings. When melted, add hash, season, and let simmer until the water 
is absorbed. Serve hot. 



LESSON 15. 
Veal. 

Veal Is the meat of a calf from six to eight weeks old. It may be 
obtained throughout the year but it is better in the spring. The best veal 
is pale pink or flesh color with clear white fat. White veal or that 
from a ca,lf less than six weeks old is unfit to eat. Veal has but little 
juice, flavor or nutriment and should be thoroughly cooked as it is not 
wholesome when underdone. Veal should be eaten soon after it is 
killed and dressed. It is lacking in fat, therefore some form of fat 
should be used in cooking. 



Veal Chart. 




1. Leg. used for soup and stews. 

2. Cutlets, used for steaks. 

3. Thick end of loin, used for steak and chops. 

4. Loin, used for chops and roasts. 

5. Breast, used for stew and roasts. 

6. Shoulder, used for stews. 

7. Neck, used for stews. 

8. Sweet breads, used for salads and to saute. 

9. Head, used for soup. 

10. Knuckle, used for soups and stews. 

11. Ribs, used for chops and roasts. 



22 

Veal Stew and Dumplings. 

2 lbs. veal, 4 small potatoes, 

2 tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. flour, 

Boilittg water to cover, 2 tbsp. cold vsfater. 

1 onion sliced. Pepper. 

Rinse veal quickly, cut in pieces, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and cover with boiling water. Boll 5 min., add onion and simmer until 
the meat is tender,' about 3 hrs. Par-boil potatoes 5 min. Twenty 
minutes before stew is done, put in the potatoes. When done, thicken 
with the flour mixed with cold water. Season. 



Dumplings. 

1 pt. flour, 4 tsp. baking powder, 

14 tsp. salt, 1 scant, c. milk. 

Mix dry Ingredienfts, stir in the milk gradually to make a soft 
dough. Drop quickly by the spoonful into the boiling stew letting thefn 
rest on the meat and potatoes. Cover closely to keep in the steam, and 
boll just 1 min. without lifting the cover. 



I/ESSON 16. 
Mutton. 

Muttoir comes from sheep about three years old and should hang 
from two to three weeks after killing, to ripen, while lamb may be 
eaten soon after it is killed. Good mutton is fine grained and a pink 
color and the fat is white, hard and flaky. If the skin comes off easily 
the mutton is sure to be good. Mutton ranks next to beef in nutrition 
and the broth is especially good for invalids. 

Lamb is the name given to the meat of lambs. It should he eaten 
sooa after it is killed. It may be obtained as early as February, but is 
scarce until March. When it is killed from 6 weeks to 3 months old. 
It is called spring lamb; when 1 year old, a yearling. The flesh should 
be a lighter red than that of mutton and the bone red. 

No cold meat should be thrown away after a meal, as it may be 
used iir making many palatable and nutritious dishes. It should be kept 
in a cold place. 




1. 

2. 
3. 



Leg, used for roast. 
Lioin, used for steak. 
Ribs, used for chops. 



4. 
5. 
6. 



Shoulder, used for stews. 
Neck, used for stews. 
Breast, used for stews. 



Braised Mutton. 



Wash quickly, put in a baking pan, either whole or cut in small 
pieces. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Put in a hot oven. After 
the flour begins to brown, add just enough water to cover the bottom 
of the pan. Cover tightly. Baste every 15 min. till done. Cook 12 to 
18 min. to the pound. 

Minced Meat on Toast. 

1 c. chopped cooked meat, % c. water or gravy, 

^ tbsp. flour. Salt, 

Vz tbsp. miHced onion. Pepper, 
3 slices toast. 



SpriKkle flour on the meat, stir well, add onion, seasoning and 



water, 
thicken, 



Simmer 10 min. Serve on toast. If gravy is used, do not 

LESSON 17. 
St.arch — ^Potatoes . 

Starch is one of the food principles, and is found in most vegeta- 
ble food. It Is a fine white powder, insoluble in cold water, but partly 
soluble in boiling water. The grains are wrapped up in a cover of in- 
soluble, indigestible cellulose, and unless this is broken by heat, starch 
is indigestible, hence the necessity of thoroughly cooking all starchy 
food. 

When boiling water is poured upon dry starch, lumps form, be- 
cause the starch first touched by the hot water, swells suddenly, form- 
ing a sticky envelope around the rest of the starch, thus leaving the 
center of the lump uncooked. On account of the bursting of its cells 
by heat, starch may be used to thicken gravies and sauces. 



24 

Potatoes are tubers or the thickened, undergroumd stems of a 
plant. They are planted from cuttings, each piece containing two or 
more eyes. Potatoes are three-fourths water, the solid matter being 
starch with a small amount of albumen, mineral matter, an-d cellulose. 

They are indigestible when raw, on account of the starch they con- 
tain. Next to the skin is an acrid julcei drawn Vjut in cooking. New po- 
tatoes, unless perfectly ripe, contain little starch and are unwholesome. 
Late in the fall they are at their best, but in the spring the starch 
changes, as they sprout, making them gummy and soggy. Potatoes 
furnish needed bulk in our food rather than much nutriment; beiirg a 
heat giving and fat forming food, they should be eaten with meat, eggs, 
fish, which supply protein. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

6 potatoes. 1 qt. boilin-g water. 

1 tbsp. salt. 

Wash, scrub and pare potatoes of unfiform size, and put in cold 
water. Drop in boiling salted water and cook till a fork will pierce 
them, about 30 min. Drain off every drop of water and put uncovered 
on back of stove, shaking gently to make them mealy, and allow steam 
to escape. 

Mashed Potatoes. 
Potatoes. % tbsp. butt-er. 

% tsp. salt. Hot milk to moisten. 

Mash the potatoes in the kettle in which they are boiled, using a 
wire masher. For every pt. of potatoes add the salt, butter and milk 
Beat till white and creamy, pile lightly on a warm dish. 

Mashed Potato Cakes. 

Shape cold mashed potatoes into small round cakes. Put on a tin 
pan, brush with milk awd bake till a golden brown, or saute in lard. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Select potatoes of uniform sijse, wash and scrub well. Cut off 
small slice to allow steam to escape while baking. Bake in a hot oven 
from 35 to 5 min. or till soft. 

liKSSON 18. 
Potatoes — Continued. 
Tjyonnaise Potatoes. 

1 pt. of cold boiled potatoes. 1 tbsp. minced onion. 
V2 tsp. salt. % tbsp. chopped parsley. 

Pepper. 2 tbsp. drippin-gs or butter. 

Cut potatoes into small cubes and season with salt and pepper. 
Fry the onion in the drippings till a light brown, and add potatoes. 
Stir with a fork until brown, add parsley and serve. % tbsp. of vinregar 
may be added. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

1 pt. cold boiled potatoes. 1 tl)sp. butter. 

y^ c. milk. V2 tsp. salt. 

Pepper. 1 tsp. chopped parsley. 

Cut potatoes into small cubes. Heat milk and add potatoes and 
seasoning. Simmer slowly until milk is absorbed, add parsley and serve. 



25 



To Chop Parsley. 

Wash parsley, remove leaves from stems and dry on a towel. 
Gather closely between thumb and fingers and cut through. Hold the 
point of the knife on the board and with a circular motion mince the 
parsley fine. 

To Mince Onion. 

Remove covering from the onioK about half way down. Score 
across the top about % in. apart; score again in opposite direction and 
then slice across the onion. 



Corn 
Peas 
iVspara^s 

Potatoes 

Spinach 

Cabbage 

Cauliflower 
Parsnips 

Carrots 

Turnips 

Beets 



Onions 
Beans 
String Beans 

Soft Shelled 
Squash 

Hard Shelled 
Squash 

Celery 



LESSON 19. 

Time Table for Cooking Vegetables. 

Husk, but do not wash. 
Shell and wash quickly. 
Wash, break off tough ends, and tie in 

bunches or break into inch pieces. 
Scrub and pare when necessary. 
Pick over and wash in several waters. 
Trim and soak, top down, in cold water, 

to draw out insects. 
Same as cabbage. 
Scrub until white and trim off fine 

roots. 
Scrub and scrape off the outer sur 

face. 
Scrub, slice, if not to be diced, and 

pare. 
Wash carefully, for if the skin be 

broken, the sugary juices will escape. 

Leave on 1 inch of the stem. 
Peel under water. 
Shell and wash quickly. 
Wash, strip off the ends and strings on 

each side. Cut or break into small* 

pieces. 
Wash, pare and cut as desired. 

Wash, split and cook in the shell. 



10 to 20 min. 
25 to 35 min.' 

20 to 30 min. 
20 to 3 5 min 
20 to 30 min. 

30 to 45 min. 
,30 to 45 min. 

30 to 45 min. 

30 to 60 min. 

30 to 60 min. 

1 hr. or 

till tender. 

30 to 50 min. 

45 to 60 min. 



45 to 60 min. 
45 min. or 
till tender. 
45 min. or 
till tender. 

1 hr. 



Wash and scrape off rusty portions. 
Turnips and Cabbage. 

These two vegetables, though not at all alike in form and manner 
of growth, are much alike in composition and food value. Of the 
two the cabbage is the more nutritious. They both contain a large 
amount of water, and should be carefully cooked and well drained. 

Turnips contain no starch, but instead a gelatinous substance 
called pectin. They are at their best in the fall and winter. Towards 
spring they become tough and fibrous, and are only fit to flavor stews, 
etc. The rutabaga, the French turnip, and the small flat purple top are 
the best. 

Cabbage is the leaf of the plant which grows in clusters tightly 
folded together. The sound, solid heads are the best. A little soda 
should be added while cooking, and the water drained off oi^ce at least, 



26 

as this method removes the sharp mustard taste caused by sulphur 
compounds. Both cabbage and turnips are used more to make a 
variety in our daily food than for their nutritive value. 

White Sauce. 

2 tbsp. butter. 1 c. hot milk. 

2 tbsp. flour. % tsp. salt. 

Pepper. 
Melt butter and flour. Add % of the milk and stir till smooth. 
Add rest of milk and cook until thick. Season. 

Turnips in White Sauce. 

Wash and pare turnips. Cut into small cubes and cook in boiling 
salted water until very tender, about 30 min. Drain well and pour over 
them 1 c. of white sauce for every pt. of turnips. Other vegetables, 
such as carrots, parsnips or celery, may be treated in the same way. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Remove outer leaves and soak in cold water with the head down, 
to draw out insects. Cut into quarters or slice fine, put into a kettle 
of boiling water with % tsp. of soda. Boil 20 min. uncovered. Drain 
and cover again with boiling water. Boil 20 min. loffger or until 
tender, drain and season with salt and pepper. Pour % c. of heated 
vinegar over it, or milk enough to barely cover. 

ScaIlox>ed Cabbage. 

Chop cold boiled cabbage fine. Put a layer in baklrrg dish, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and pour over it a layer of white sauce. Repeat 
until the dish is full, having sauce for the top layer. Cover the top 
with buttered crumbs and bake till brown. 

LESSON 20. 
Salads. 

The food value of green salad is not high but the salts it supplies 
make it vei-y wholesome. Oil or butter used in dressing furnish fat 
in a digestible form. When fish, meat, eggs pr cooked vegetables are 
used with a cooked or mayonnaise dressing, the salad contains a great 
deal of nourishment. 

Salads should be served very cold. 

Cooked Salad Dressing. 

2 whole eggs or 4 yolks. 1 tsp. salt. 

Vs e. vinegar. spk. of cayenne pepper. 

2 tbsp. butter. % tsp. mustard. 

Beat eggs slightly. Add vinegar and cook over hot water till thick. 
Remove from fire add butter and seasoning. When ready to use, if too 
thick, it may be thinned with cream. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Slice or chop cabbage fine. Mix with a cooked dressing. Add 
more salt if needed. 



27 

Potato Salad. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in cubes, sprinkle lightly with salt. If 
liked, add one-half the amount of celery, cut in cubes. Add 1 tbsp. 
minced onion to every pint of potatoes. Moisten with salad dressing. 
Mix lightly and serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with celery leaves. 

Hard boiled eggs cut in slices may be added. 

LESSON 21. 
Cereals. 

Cereals or grains are grasses, the seeds of which are used for 
food. Being composed mostly of starch, they must be cooked in 
several times their bulk in water, that the starch cells may all burst 
and be thoroughly cooked. They are the most important of all vege- 
table foods. 

Of all the graiiTS, oats are the most nutritious. They furnish food 
for muscle and brain, but contain an indigestible fibre. 

Rice is the seed of a grass. Alone it is not a perfect food, being 
mostly starch and lacking fat, and proteid. It is a good substitute for 
potatoes. In good rice the grains are yellowish white and whole, with 
little starch dust on > them. 

Cornmeal is valuable for a winter food, as it contains fat and 
starch, two fuel foods. For the amount of money spent, cornmeal con- 
tains more nourishment than any other, grain. 

To keep fine granulated cereal from lumping, mix with cold water 
before putting in boiliirg water. Rice swells to Z or4 times its bulk 
when cooked. 

Cornmeal Mush. 

1 c. cornmeal. .5 cups boiling water. 

1 c. cold water. % tbsp. salt. 

Mix cornmeal, salt and cold water. Stir into boiling water and 
cook directly over the fire for 5 min. stirring constairtly, then cook 
slowly over water from 1 t6 2 hrs. 

For frying, pour in greased baking powder cans or a bread pan. 
Sliced when cold. 

Kolled Oats. 

2 c. boiling water. % tsp. salt. 
1 c Avena. 

Put boiling water in the top of double boiler, add salt. Stir ia 
Avena and cook % hr. without stirring. 

Steamed Bice. 

3 c. boiling water or milk % tsp. salt. 
1 c. rice. 

Wash rice. Put boiling water and salt in top of double boiler. 
Add rice and steam 1 hr. Do not stir. 

Cream of Wheat. 

% c. cream wheat. I tsp. salt. 

3 c. boiling water. 



28 

Put water and salt ia top of double boiler. Stir the cream of 
wheat slowly into the water. Cook 5 min. directly over the fire, then 
cook in the double boiler for 25 mirr. 

LESSON 22. 
Cheese. 

Cheese Is the curd of milk, drained, salted and pressed. Skimmed 
milk cheese does not contain as much fat as cheese made from full 
milk, and therefore is not as nourishing. Lard or some cheap fat is often 
added to supply the lack of cream. Such cheese is greasy when warm, 
has little flavor and does rrot keep well. Cheese, like eggs, contains 
much nourishment in small bulk. It is a good substitute for meat, and 
in combination- with macaroni, rice or potatoes may be used in its 
place. Cheese is hard to digest and should not be used by persons of 
weak digestion or child^-en. For those engaged in physical labor, it 
is one of the best of foods, 

Macaroni. 

Macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli and other Italian pastes are made 
from hard wheat flour mixed with water and pressed into the different 
shapes. Maraconi is very nutritious, but beiag deficient in fat. Is best 
when combined with cheese or milk. It contains so much gluten, that it 
is about equal to meat in nutrition. Good macaroni is yellowish in 
color and rough Ih texture. It breaks cleanly without splitting, in boil- 
ing water swells to double its bulk and, neither becomes pasty ffor 
loses its shape. Excellent macaroni is now made in the United States, 
and is much cleaner than the Imported. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

1. tsp. salt. 
Cayenne pepper. 



2 c. 


macaroni. 


1 c. 


milk. 


% c. cheese. 



Break macaroni into 3 in. pieces and cook until tender, in boiling 
salted water, about 25 min. Drain. Put iir a baking dish with layers 
of cheese. Barely cover with milk, season, and bake until the milk is 
absorbed and the top is brown, about 25 min. 

Maraconi and Tomato Sauce. 

Cook macaroni till tender in boiliffg salted water about 45 min. 
Drain. Reheat in tomato sauce and serve. 

Tomato Sauce. 



c. tomatoes. 








2 


tbsp. 


butter 


c. water 








2 


tbsp. 


flour. 


tbsp. minced 


onion. 






V2 


tsp. 


salt. 


bay leaf. 








Pepper. 






% 


tsp. 


sugar 









Cook tomatoes, sugar, water, onion and bay leaf 10 min. Straiw. 
Melt butter, stir in flour, and thicken like a white sauce. Season. 

Rice and Cheese. 

1 c. boiled rice. 4 tbsp. cheese. 

1 c. cream, or white sauce. 

Make sauce, add rice, and cheese grated or cut in small pieces. 



29 

Pour into baking dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake about 
20 min. or until brown. ' 

LESSON 23. 

For quick bread see Lesson 20, second year. 
Proportion for sponge and dough. Lesson 19, first year. 

Bread. 

Bread is a form of food made from the flour of wheat or other 
cereals, by the additioir of water or riiilk, salt and yeast, which is a 
ferment 

A substance which can change the composition of other substances 
without changing itself is a ferment. 

A perfect loaf of bread is regular in shape, has a crisp crust. Is 
evenly browned and tender but firm. It tastes sweet and nutty, smells 
friesh, and will keep moist for several days. 

Bread with Sponge. 

1 qt. boiling water. 3 small potatoes. 

2 tbsp. sugar. 1 cake yeast dissolved in 
2 tbsp. lard. 1 c. lukewarm water. 

2 tbsp. salt. Flour. 

Boil and mash potatoes. Add salt, lard and boiling water. When 
lul.ewarm, add yeast, and flour to make a sponge. Let rise over night. 
In the morning add sugar and flour to make a soft dough. Turn on a 
well floured board and knead lightly till smooth and elastic. Put into 
a greased bowl. Grease the top to prevent a hard crust from forming. 
Cover closely. Let rise till it doubles in size. Knead, and shape into 
loaves or rolls. Let loaves rise in the pan % to % hr. and bake 40 to 
60 min. Rolls should rise in the pan from 1 to 1 1^ hrs. and bake in a 
hot oven 20 min. 

Do not put the bread in too warm a place while rising. Do not 
fill the pans more than one-third full. Do not use much flour in second 
kneading. 

There are three reasons for kneading bread the first time: To 
mix the yeast evenly through the dough; io make the gluten elastic, 
and to mix air through t'he dough. Bread is kneaded the second time 
to break up large bubbles of gas and to shape it for baking. 

IjESSON 34. 

Yeast is a mass of very small plants, each an oval cell. It grows 
best at a temperature of from 75 to 80 degrees F. Cold does not kill 
it but retards its growth. At about 130 degrees F. the plant is killed. 

Fermentation. 

Alcoholic fermentation takes place, when yeast is added to sugar 
and starch. The yeast converts the sugar and starch into carbonic acid 
gas and alcohol. Examples: Raising of bread and the making of win« 
from grape juice. If alcoholic, fermentation goes too far, the alcohol is 
turned into acetic acid, and the mixture is sour. This is acetic fermenta- 
tion. Examples: Changing of wine or cider into vinegar. Lactic fermen- 



30 

tation is tlie change that takes place when- milk sours. Tne sugar of 
milk is converted into lactic acid which reacts on the milk and causes 
the casein to curdle. 

Parker House Rolls. 

1 pt. milk. % cake yeast dissolved in 

1 tbsp. butter. Vz c. lukewarm water. 

1 tsp. salt. Flour. 

1 tbsp. sugar. 

Scald milk. Add butter, sugar and salt — when lukewarm, add 
yeast and flour to make a soft dough. Knead until the dough blisters. 
Let rise till it doubles in size. Shape into rolls; let rise 1 to 1% 
hours. Bake in a quick oven- 20 min. Brush with milk or butter. 

To Shape Rolls- 

Roll dough % inch thick: cut with a cooky cutter. Crease in 
the center with the handle of a knife dipped in flour. Brush one-half 
with melted butter. Fold, place in pans about % inch apart. 

Baking of Bread. 

The oven should turn a piece of white paper a medium brown in 
five minutes. The heat should gradually decrease till the end of the 
baking. Bread is done when it will give a hollow sound when tapped 
on the bottom. When the loaf comes from the oven, brush the top 
with milk, butter or water and place it where the air cavt circulate 
freely around it. When cold, put in a clean, sweet, bread box, without 
any wrapping, as the cloth may give it a musty flavor. 

There are four reasons for baking bread. First, to kill the yeast 
plant; second, to make the starch digestible; third, to drive off the 
carbonic acid gas and alcohol; fourth, to form a brown crust. 

LESSON 25. 
Wheat Flour. 

Flours are made by gr«iding the graius of various cereals, wheat, 
rye, barley, oats, maize, millet, rice, etc. Of these, wheat is the most 
important, partly because it can be cultivated in any temperate climate, 
but chiefly because it is the only grain that contains gluten in the right 
proportion to make a light, spongy loaf of bread. 

The wheat grain is a small, oval seed. Which can be easily threshed 
from the stalk on which it grows. The outer layers are known as bran, 
the inner consists of starch and gluten. 

Different kinds of wheat vary as to the amount of gluten they con- 
tain. There are two kinds of wheat used to make flour — spring wheat 
fcontaining the most gluten) from which bread flour is made, and 
winter wheat, from which pastry flour is made. 

Wheat contains all the elefnents necessary for the support of life, 
but not in the right proportion. It is deficient in fat. The gluten of 
wheat is a tough, elastic substance, consisting of vegetable fibres. It 
has a peculiar power of holding the gas that has formed during fer- 



31 

mentation. It is insoluble in water, but will swell to four or five times 
its original bulk. 

Entire or whole wheat flour is made by grinding all parts of the 
kernel of wheat except the bran and germ. Thus none of the nutritive 
parts are lost. Graham flour is finely ground unbolted wheat 
flour. 

Entire Wheat Bread. 

1 pt. milk. 1 tsp. salt. 

1 pt. boiliag water. 1 cake yeast dissolved in . 

2 tbsp. sugar. % c. water. 

Put milk, salt and sugar in a bowl and pour over them the boiling 
water. When lukewarm, add yeast and entire wheat flour to make a 
drop batter. Beat thoroughly, cover and stand in a warm place from 
2 % to 3 hours, or over night. Add flour to make a dough. Knead 
lightly uQtil it loses its stickiness, about 10 minutes. Make at once 
into loaves, put into greased pans, cover and let stand in a warm place 
1 hour, or until light. Bake about 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

TjBSSON 26. 
Griddle Cakes. 

The griddle for baking cakes should be clean and smooth. Never 
allow the fat to collect and burn around the edges of the griddle. 

Grease griddle with lard, pork rind or drippings. If lard or drip- 
pings are used, apply with a cloth, wound around a fork. Wipe griddle 
with a soft paper before washing. Drop cakes from end of spoon to 
make them round. If large bubbles rise at once to top of cakes, the 
griddle is too hot. If the top of the cake stiffens before the underside 
is brown, the griddle is not hot enough. 

Never turn a cake but once. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes. 

1 pt. flour. 1 scant pt. thick sour milk. 

% tsp. salt. 1 egg well beaten. 

1 tsp. soda. 

Mix and sift soda, salt and flour, add sour milk and beaten yolk. 
Fold in' beaten white and bake on a hot greased griddle. 

Comnieal Cakes. 

t c. cornmeal. 1% c. flour. 

2 c. boiling water. 4 -tsp. baking powder. 
1% c milk. 2 tsp. melted butter. 

1 tsp. salt. 1 egg. 

Add meal to boiling water and cook 5 minutes. Pour into a bowl, 
add milk, salt and the flour mixed with the baking powder, then the 
butter and beaten egg. Bake on a hot greased griddle. 

liESSON 27. 
Proportions- of Acids and Alkalies. 

2 level tsp. baking powder for each cup of flour. 
1 leve! tsp. soda to 1 pt. thick- sour milk. 

1 level tsp. soda to 1 c. molasses for a batter. 

.% tsp. soda to 1 c. of molasses for a stiff dough. 

1 tsp. soda and 2 of cream tartar to 1 qt. flour. 

Note. — Deduct Vs tsp. baking powder for each egg used. 



32 

Gingerbread. 

1 c molasses. 1 tsp. ginger. 

Vz c. lard or butter. % tsp. cloves. 

1 tsp. cinnamon. 1 tsp. soda. 

Vz tsp. salt. 2% c. flour. 

1 c. warm water. 2 eggs well beaten. 
% c. sugar. 

Mix in order given' and bake in moderate oven % hour. 

LESSON 28. 
Baking Powder. 

Baking powder is composed of soda, 30 per cen't., cream of tartar, 
60 per cent., and 10 per cent of rice flour. Soda is an alkali, and is 
made from common salt. Cream of tartar is an acid substance, obtained 
from argols found iff the bottom and sides of wine caskb. When an 
acid and an alkali are united in proper proportions and moistened, 
carbonic acid gas is formed. This gas, seeking to escape, lightens the 
dough, hence baking powder mixtures should be baked as soon as 
possible after mixing. 

Cheap baking powders are adulterated with alum, which is in- 
jurious. 

Bakinfi' Powder Biscuit. 

2 c. flour. 2 tbsp. lard. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 1 scant c. milk. 

1 tsp. salt. 

Mix dry ingredients. Cut in lard with knife or mix with fingers. 
Add milk gradually to form a soft dough, mixiHg with a knife. Turn 
on a floured board. Roll to % inch thickness. Cut and bake in hot 
over about 15 minutes. 

LKSSON 29. 
Batters and Donghs. 

NOTES. 

Quick bread mixtures are either batters or doughs. Batter means 
that which can be beaten, and dough means that which is mixed stiff 
enough to be molded. A thin batter is made itt the proportion of 1 c. 
liquid to 1 c. flour. A stiff or drop batter is made in the proportion of 1 
c. liquid to 2 c. flour. A dough is 1 c. liquid to about 3 c. flour. For a 
soft dough a little less flour is used and a stiff dough a little more. A 
sponge is a drop batter to which yeast is added. No bread should be 
eaten steaming hot because in this state the inside part or crumb forms 
in the mouth a pasty mass which is n<ot easily digested. 

Oue-Egg Muffin. . 

2 c. flour. 1 c. milk. 

3 tsp. baking powder. 1 egg. 

% tsp. salt. 2. tbsp. melted butter. 

2 tsp. sugar. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg and melted butter. Bake 
in hot greased muffin pans about 25 minutes. 



33 

Entire Wheat Muffins. 

1% c. entire wheat or graham Vj tsp. salt. 

flour. i c. milk. 

Vi c. flour. 1 egg. 

2 tbsp. sugar. 1 tsp. melted butter or lard. 

2 tsp. baking powder. i '< : : i i i i ,i , 
Mi5c dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg and melted butter. 

Bake in hot greased muffin pans about 2 5 minutes. 

LESSON 30. 

Corn Bread. . 

1 c. corn meal. % c. sugar. 

1 c flour. 1 egg. 

Vj tsp. salt. 1 c. milk. 

3% tsp. bakinig powder. 1 tsp. melted butter or lard. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg and butter. Beat well 
and bake In a shallow greased pan in a quick oven from 20 to 30 min.' 

Corn Muffins. 

% c. corn meal. 1 tbsp. sugar. 

1 c. flour. 1 c. milk. 

3 tsp. baking powder. 1 egg. 

% tsp. salt. 1 tbsp. melted butter. 

Mix dry ingredients, add TSi^lk, beaten egg and butter. Bake in 
hot greased mufiin pans about 29 minutes. 

LESSON 31. 

Cottage Pudding. 

1 egg. 2 heaping c. flour. 

% c. sugar. 3 % tsp. baking powder. 

3 tbsp. melted butter. % tsp. salt. 
1 c. milk. 

Beat egg, add sugar, melted butter and milk, then flour mixed with 
salt and baking powder. Beat aad bake in a shallow greased pan and 
serve with lemon sauce. 

Lemon Snow Balls. 

3 eggs, beaten separately. grated rind and juice % lemon 

1 c. sugar. 1 c. flour. 

3 tbsp. water. 1 tsp. baking powder. 

Beat yolks, add sugar, lemon rind and juice and water, then flour 
mixed with baking powder. Fold in beaten whites and steam irr but- 
tered cup V2 hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Lemon Sauce. 

2 c. hot water. grated rind and juice 1 lemon. 

1 c sugar. 1 tbsp. butter. 

2 tbsp. corn starch. ^ 

Mix sugar and cornstarch and pour over them the boiling water. 
Cook ten minutes, remove from the fire and add the lemon rind, juice 
anfd butter. Stir till butter is melted and serve. 



34 

LESSON 32. 
Cake. 

In general, a cake should contain not more than % to V^ as much 
butter as sugar and about half as much liquid as flour. Butter, or other 
shortening,, and sugar count as liquid, since they melt in the oven. Sour 
milk or molasses do not thin a mixture as much as sweet milk or water 
A cake with fruit should be a little stiffer than? one without. The more 
eggs there are in a cake the less baking powder it needs. Cake con- 
taining molasses burns easily. Bake such cakes, or any thick loaf 
requiring long baking, iir tins lined with greased paper. 

There are two classes of cakes, those with butter or butter cake, 
and those without butter, or sponge cake. 

To Mix Butter Cake. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then beaten yolks and flavor- 
ing. Add alternately the liquid and flour mixed with baking powder. 
Beat well, as cake is made fine grained by beatirrg. Lastly fold in beat- 
en whites. Never stir or beat after the whites are put in. 

To Bake Butter Cakes. 

The oven should be hot enough to turn a piece of white paper 
medium brown in five minutes. The time for baking should be divided 
into quarters. First, begin to rise; second, continue to rise and begin 
to brown; third, brown all over; fourth^ finish baking. The cake is 
done when it shrinks from edge of the pan and when a doubled straw, 
put carefully in the ceffter, comes out clean. 

Filling; the Pans. 

Grease pan, or paper if used, with lard, and dust with flour. Pour 
in the mixture and let it run well into the corners of the pan. Have 
pan about % full. With the back of the spoon make a slight depressioH 
in the center, so the cake will be perfectly flat on top when baked. 

%c. hutter.^Hy^ST^A-M^ 1 c. milk. 

1 c. sugar. ^ 2%c flour. 

1 egg. 3 V2 tsp. baking powder. 

% tsp. vanilla. 

Cream butter, add siigar gradually, beaten egg and flavoring. 
Stir in alternately the milk and flour mixed with baking power. Beat 
well, and bake in^a. greased pan- 30 to 40 min. 

LESSON 33. 
To Mix Cakes. 

In mixing cake the best materials should be used, the measuring 
should be accurate, the ingredients be combined in the proper order 
and the oven heated to the right temperature when cake is ready for 
baking. 



35 

Pastry flour should be used, and powdered or fine granulated 
sugar, as coarse sugar makes a grained and sticky cake. 

Cookies and small cakes need a hotter oven than loaf cake. 

Oni) Cake. 

% c. butter. 1 c. milk. 

1% c. sugar. 3 c. flour. 

4 eggs. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

% tsp. mace. 

Cream 1 butter, add sugar. Then add eggs well beaten, milk, and 
flour mixed with baking powder and mace. Bake in individual tins. 

Beaten Frosting. 

white 1 egg 14 tsp. vanilla or 

2 tsp. cold water. 1/2 tsp. lemon juice. 

% c. confectioner's sugar. 

To unbeaten white add water and then the sugar gradually. Beat 
20 miHutes. Then add flavoring. Use more sugar if necessary. Spread 
with a broad bladed knife. 

LESSON 34. 

Oatmeal Cookies. 

V2 c. butter and lard. 2 c. flour. 

1 c. sugar. % tsp. soda. 

2 eggs, well beaten. ^4 tsp. cinnamon. 
% c. milk. ^ tsp. salt. 

2 c. rolled oats. 1 c. raisins, chopped. 

Mix in order given. Drop by teaspoonful on greased tin and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

liESSON. 35. 

For shortcake, strawberries, oranges, peaches or raspberries may 
be used. Wash strawberries before hulling. 

Strawbetry Short Cake. 

2 c. flour. 2 tbsp. lard. 

3 tsp. baking powder. 2 tbsp. butter. 
V2 tsp. salt. 1 scant c. milk. 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit, roll % iwches thick and bake in 
a quick oven. Split carefully with a thread or hot knife and spread 
with butter. Sweeten strawberries to taste, crush slightly and put 
them between and on top of the cake. 

LESSON 36. 
Spring Vegetables — Asparagus. 

Wash, cut off tough ends, tie in buifches or break in inch pieces. 
Cook in boiling, salted water about 20 minutes or until soft. Drain, 
remove strings, lay on toast, with heads all one way. Pour over it a 
white sauce, or melted butter. 

Stiing Beans. 

Remove strings by cutting a thin strip from each side. Break in 
inch pieces and cook in boiling water until tender; if very young % 
hour; if very old, from 1 to 3 hours. Add salt to water the last 20 
minutes of cooking. Drain; cover with milk, thicken with butter and 
flour in proportion of 2 tbsp. butter and 2 tbsp. flour to 1 pt. milk. 
Season to taste. 



36 

liBSSON 37. 
Freezing. 

When ice and salt are mixed, a double action takes place. The 
salt makes the ice melt and the melting ice dissolves the salt. If 
packed around some other liquid, they draw the heat from it so fast 
that it freezes. This is why a mixture of salt and ice is used to freeze 
ice cream. 

To pack the freezer. Adjust can before starting to pack. Put the 
ice into a strong canvas bag and pound very fine. Use rock salt; fine 
salt will not answer the purpose. Fill space between can and pail with 
alternate layers of ice and salt, using three measures of ice to one of 
salt. 

The ice and salt should come a little above the height at which 
the cream will stattd in the can. Pack ice and salt solidly, turning 
crank a few times to let the mixture settle. Turn the crank slowly and 
steadily for twenty minutes. When freezing is accomplished, remove 
dasher and with a spoon pack the ice cream. Draw off the water, re- 
pack the freezer, using 4 measures of ice to one of salt, and let stand 
from one to three hours to ripen. 

Pflieapple Ice. 

1 pt. pineapple, shredded. white of 1 egg. 

1 qt. boiling water. juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 

2 c. sugar. 

Make a syrup of water and sugar, add pineapple and lemon juice. 

When cool put in can of freezer an'd when partly frozeni add beaten 
white of egg. Continue freezing until stiff. Let stand 1 or 2 hours to 
ripen. 

Ijemon Ice. 

4 c. water. 94 c. lemon juice. 

2 c. sugar. grated rind of 2 lemons. 

Boil sugar and water for 10 minutes. Add lemon juice and rind, 
cool, strain and freeze. 

Other fruits may be used allowing equal quantities of ]uice and 
water. 



SECOND YEAR COURSE 
IN COOKING 



SUPPLEMENTARY WORK 



SECOND YEAR 



Lesson on Bed Making. 

Preparing Room for the Night. 

Care of Room in the Morning. 

To Prepare Bed for the Sicli. 

To Change the Bed with a Patient In 

Correct Size of Bedding. Cost. 

Sanitary Requirements. 



Demonstrate TJse of Fireless Cooker. 



Planning of Menus. 

Service of a Simple Luncheon. 



39 



SUPPLEMENTARY WORK FOR SECOND YEAR. 



liESSON 1. 

Canning is the process of preserviirg fruit from germs which would 
cause it to ferment and decay. 

General Rule for Canning Fruit. 

Allow from % to % lb. of sugar to every pound of 'fruit, and from 
1 % to 2 c. of water to every pound of sugar. Boll the sugar and water 
10 mln'utes, add fruit and cook until tender. Place the sterilized jars 
on a wet cloth, fill with fruit and overflow with syrup, force out all air 
bubbles, adjust sterilized rubbers and covers. 

To Sterilize Jars and Rubbers. 

Fill jars with cold water and place on a trivet in a kettle of cold 
water; also the covers. Bring to the boiling point. Empty and fill 
while hot. Dip rubbers in boiling water before using. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Pour boiling water over tomatoes. Remove the skin and hard, 
green stems, put in a granite kettle and boil twenty minutes, skim- 
raircg often during the cooking. Fill sterilized jars. Dark jars are , 
better for tomatoes than clear ones. 

liESSON 2. 
Sugar. 

The sugar in general use is made from the juice of a tropical plant 
called sugar cane, and from sugar beets. Natural sugar is also found 
in the sap of the maple tree and in honey. 

Sugar is a very necessary article of food, if taken irr small quani- 
ties. It produces heat and energy in the body. Children being more ac- 
tive than grown people, crave more sweets.' If heated to 356 degrees F. 
sugar becomes a colorless liquid called barley sugar. At 42 degrees 
the sugar turns brown and is called caramel. If heated still further Its 
oxygen and hydrogen gradually pass off as steam, leaving only a black 
carbon, one-fourth of the weight of the original sugar. 

Sugar is heated to different degrees for different things. For some 
it is boiled till a drop let fall from a spoon spins itself into a fine 
thread; for some to the soft ball stage, when a little dropped into cold 
water can be rolled into a soft ball between the fingers; for others, till 
it makes a hard ball in cold water. When it becomes brittle upon 
being dropped into cold water, it is the next degree. 

Caramel Syrup. 

1 c. sugar. 1 c. boiling water. 

Melt sugar until browH, stirring constantly to avoid burning, add 
water and simmer 1 minutes. 



40 

I'ectin. 

The juice of fruits that contain considerable pectin, a substance 
similar to gelatin, can be made into jelly. Pectin dissolves in boiling 
water and stiffens upon cooling. It is most abundant in the harder 
parts of fruits, the core and the skin. Apples, quinces, crab apples, 
currants and grapes make the best jellies. 

Jelly must be covered to protect it from mold. ParafRne is con- 
venient for this purpose. 

Rule for JeUy. 

If the fruit is juicy, mash and boil until tender. For those fruits 
that have not enough juice of their own, add water to partly cover. 
Bring to a boil and strain through a jelly bag made of flannel, 
if possible without squeezing it. To this juice add an equal quantity of 
sugar and boil about five minutes, or until it jellies. Tesi It by putting 
a spoonful in a saucer and letting it cool. If it thickens slightly and a 
film forms on top, it is done, if not, boil a few minutes longer. Re- 
move from the fire and pour into sterilized jelly glasses. When cold, 
cover with melted paraffine. 

LESSON 3. 

For notes see lesson 12. First Year. , 
White Sauce. 

1 or 2 tbsp. butter. % tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. flour. pepper. 
1 c. milk. 

Melt butter, and when bubbling add flour and stir till smooth Add 
gradually the hot milk, season and cook until thick and smooth. 

i Cream of Celery Soup. 

3 c. celery. 1 slice of onion. 

1 pt. boiling water. 3 c of white sauce. 

Wash and scrape celery, cut into pieces, add onion and simmer in 
the hot water till soft, about % hour. Add more water as it boils away, 
to make one pint. Rub through a sieve, add to the white sauce, re- 
heat and serve. 

Cream of Pea Soup. 

1 pt. peas. 1 slice of onion. 

1 pt. boiling water. 2 c. white sauce. 

Boil peas and onion in water till soft, about 20 minutes. Rub 
through a sieve, add to the white sauce, reheat and serve. Canned or 
dried peas may be used instead of fresh ones. If dried they should be 
soaked over night, and boiled 3 or 4 hours, using 1 cup split peas and 
2% qts. water. 

UEJSSON 4. 

For notes see lesson 22, First Year. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

i/4 lb. cheese. spk. of cayenne. 

% c. milk. % tsp. salt. 

1 egg. 2 tsp. butter. 

% tsp. mustard. 4 slices toast. 

Melt the cheese over hot water, add milk and eggs, mixed with 
seasoning. Cook over hot water until like boiled custard, stirring con- 
stantly. Add butter, and when melted pour over toast or crackers and 
serve at once. If the cheese is rich the butter may be omitted. 



41 

French Karebit. 

8 slices of bread, buttered. % tsp. mustard. 

^2 lb. cheese. % tsp. salt. 

2 cups milk. spk. cayenne. 
1 or 2 eggs. 

Put bread and cheese in" layer in a buttered bakin^dish and pour 
over it the milk, to which has been added the beaten egg and' season- 
ing. Bake in a slov; oven until brown and the milk is absorbed. 

LESSON 5. 

Invalid Oooking. 

The sick room should be more thoroughly ventilated than any 
room in the house. It should not contain any unnecessary furniture 
and should be kept scrupulously cleair. The diet is divided into three 
classes, liquid, light and convalescent. Liquid diet consists entirely of 
liquid foods, given at intervals of about two hours. It consists chiefly 
of milk and meat broth. Light diet is given in less severe illness, or 
until the recovery of a patient. It consists, in addition to the liquid 
diet, of soft cooked eggs, soups, gelatins, etc. Convalescent diet in- 
cludes all ordinary dishes that are easily digested. The change from 
one to another should be made gradually. 

All diets in severe illness should be prescribed by a physician. 

Serving an Invalid's Tray. 

Take special care in setting the tray. Cover with a spotless tray 
cloth or dinner napkin, folding same, if it is larger than the tray, that 
it may come just to the edge. Avoid a fringed cloth, as It is apt to 
prove annoying. Select the daintiest china, finest glass and choicest 
silver to be had, making changes as oftenf as possible. 

Egg Nog. 

1 egg. nutmeg. 

2 tsp. sugar. pinch of salt. 
Vo c. milk. 

Beat the yolk of egg until light and creamy, add sugar and milk. 
Stir in lightly the beaten white, pour into a glass and sprinkle the top 
with nutmeg. 

Beef Tea. 

% lb. round steak. 1 c. cold water. 

% tsp. salt. z 

Remove fat and chop beef fine. Add water and salt and let 
stand % hour, pressing occasionally to extract the juices. Heat slowly 
and when the liquid is brown, remove from the fire. Pour off the 
broth. Never allow the beef tea to boil. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches. 

Cut juicy lean meat into thin strips. Scrape the meat from the 
fibre, season with salt and pepper and spread between thin slices of 

bread. 



42 

Beet Jnice. 

Cut lean beef from the top of the round into small hits, put into a 
glass jar, put on the cover and set the jar, wrapped in cloth, upon a 
trivet in a kettle of cold water. Heat the water slowly until it steams. 
Let it remain at this temperature four or five hours, then strain, press- 
ing the meat to obtain all the juice. 

Stewed Pigs. 

Wash figs and soak several hours in cold water. Simmer in same 
water until very terrder. Sweeten to taste. 

LESSON 6. 
Omelets. 
Albumen. 

For notes see Liesson 7, First Year. 

General rule for omelet. Allow one egg for each person and one 
tbsp. of milk or water for each egg. 

Plain Omelet- 

3 eggs. spk pepper. 

% tsp. salt. 3 tbsp. milk or hot water. 

Beat eggs till well mixed, add salt, pepper and liquid. Put 1 tsp. 
butter or mice drippings in a smooth frying pan, shake it over the fire 
until melted, then turn in the mixture. Shake occasionally to see that 
the omelet does not stick. Fold and serve at once. 

Beaten Omelet. 

3 sggs beaten separately. % tsp salt. 

3 tbsp. milk. Pepper. 

Beat the yolks till very light. Add milk arrd seasoning, then beat- 
en whites. Heat 1 tsp. butter in a frying pan, pour in the omelet 
and spread evenly. Cook slowly till brown on the bottom. Set in the 
oven to dry on top, fold and serve at once. 

LESSON 7. 

Albu men — Contiuu ed. 

Caramel Custard. 

Vi c. sugar. % tsp. salt. 

2 c. hot milk. % tsp. vanilla. 

2 beaten eggs. 

Melt sugar for caramel, add slowly to scalded milk, cook till sugar, 
melts. Pour slowly over the beaten eggs and fiavor. Pour into but- 
tered cups and bake as baked custard. 

Caramel Sauce. 

% c. sugar. % c. boiling water. 

Melt sugar as for caramel, add water and simmer 10 minutes. 
Pour over custard when cold. 



43 

Prune Souffle. 

% lb. prunes. Whites of 3 eggs. 

1 c. sugar. 

Cook prunes until very tender. Put through a sieve. When cool, 
•add sugar and beaten whites. Bake in a buttered pan set in a pan of 
hot water irr a moderate oven about 20 minutes. For prune whip, use 
whites of two eggs, cut prunes instead of straining, and do not bake. 

IjESSON 8. 

Fish. 

Fish should always be fresh and used in season. When fresh the 
flesh is firm, and will rise at once when pressed with the finger; the 
eyes will be bright. Red blooded fish, such as salmorr, mackerel and 
blue fish, have the oil distributed through the body. White fish, like 
halibut, cod and haddock, ha,ve the oil in the liver, and are more easily 
digested than red-blooded fish. Fish contain four of the food princi- 
ples — proteid, fat, mineral matter and water. A large per cent is 
refuse. Fish may be preserved by canning, salting, pickling or by drying 

To Clean Fish. 

Remove scales by drawing the back of the knife over the flsh, 
beginning at the tail and working toward the head. Wash quickly but 
do not soak. If not to be used at once, sprinkle lightly with salt, wrap 
in a clean cloth and keep in a cool place. 

Baked Fish. 

Clean, wipe and dry fish. Do not remove the head and tail. Rub 
all over with salt, stuff and sew up. Lay the fish in the pan and skewer 
it into the shape of a letter S. Lay strips of salt pork around the pan 
and across the back. Sprinkle the fish with salt and pepper and dredge 
with flour. When the flour begins to brown, baste with the fat in the 
pan. It is done when the flesh separates easily from the bone. Lift 
carefully on a hot platter, draw out skewers and striwgs and serve with 
drawn butter or egg sauce. 

Drawn Butter. 

1 pt. hot water or stock. % tsp. salt. 

3 tbsp. butter. Pepper. 

4 tbsp. flour. 

Melt butter in frying pan, add flour and gradually the hot water. 
Cook until thick and perfectly smooth. Add one or two cold hard 
cooked eggs, chopped fine, if desired. 

Fish Turbot. 

1 pt. milk. 1 egg- 

3 tbsp. butter. Salt and pepper. 

6 tbsp. flour. 

Steam a white fish until tender. Remove bones and skin, and 
flake the fish. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Make a white sauce with 
the milk, butter and flour. Season with salt and pepper, and if desired. 



44 

a little minced onion. Remove from lire and add beaten egg. Put a 
layer of fish in a baking dish, cover with sauce; repeat until the dish 
is full, cover with buttered crumbs and bake until brown. A few 
drops of lemon juice sprinkled over the fish improves the flavor. 

LESSON 9. 
Pish — Continued. 

For Notes see Lesson 9, First Year. 
Codfish Balls. 

1 c. salt codfish. % egg. 

2 c. diced potatoes raw. % tbsp. butter. 

Shred codfish, add potatoes, cover with boiling water, cook until 
potatoes are tender. Drain and mash. Add beaten egg and butter; 
shape in tbsp. and saute or fry in hot fat. Serve hot. They may be 
shaped in flat cakes and rolled in flour. 

Meat Iioaf . 

2 lb. lean beef or veal. 1 or 2 beaterr eggs. 

Vs lb. salt pork. 2 tsp. salt. 

6 butter crackers. % tsp. pepper. 

Chop meat and salt pork, add rolled crackers, beaten eggs, salt and 
pepper. Pack in a small bread pan and bake slowly 2 hrs. Let cool 
in the paa. Slice thin in serving. 

Salmon Loaf. 

1 can salmon. 4 tbsp. melted butter. ^ 

2 eggs. Salt and cayenne pepper. 
V3 c. bread crumbs. 

Mince fish fine, add butter, crumbs, beaten eggs and seasoning 
Pour into buttered pans and bake or steam 1 hour. Serve with sau«e. 

LESSON 10. 

For Notes on Beef, See Lesson 13, First Year. 
Frying. 

Olive oil, lard, beef drippings, cottolene or cocoa butter may be 
used for frying. There should be enough fat to entirely cover the arti- 
cles to be fried. The fat should be hot enough to instantly harden the 
albumen on the outside to keep the fat from soaking into the article 
fried. If the article has not enough albumen In it, dip it in fat-proof 
coating; that is, in cracker crumbs or bread crumbs, then In slightly 
beaten eggs, then in orum'bs agalii. 

Do not put too many articles in the fat at one time, as that causes 
it to biibble over on the stove and also cools it. When they are done, 
drain on brown paper. Strain the fat through cheese cloth or flannel 
after every frying; it may be used several times unless it has 
been used for fish. 

To test the fat, drop In a small piece of bread, potato or dough; 
if it turns brown while you count 60, as the clock ticks, it is hot enough 
to fry any uncooked mixture. It it browns while you count 40, It is hot 
enough to fry cooked mixtures. 



45 

To Clarity Fat. 

Add boiling water to cold fat, stir vigorously and set aside to cool; 
the fat will form a cake on top, which may be easily removed; on the 
bottom of the cake will be found sediment, which may be readily 
scraped off with a knife. 

Boast Beef. 

Wash meat quickly, place in a dripping pan and sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and flour. Place in a hot oven. When the flour begins to 
brown, reduce the heat of the oven slightly and baste with the fat in 
the pan. If the fat begins to burn, add a little boiling water. Baste 
every 10 min., taming the meat during the roasting. Roast 15 min. 
to the lb., if liked rare; 20 min. to the lb., if well done. 

Gravy. 

Pour off all but about 4 tsp. of fat in the pan add an equal quanti- 
ty of flour and stir until brown. Add gradually boiling water to make 
of the right consistency. Cook until smooth. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

Croquettes. 

General Rule:— Two parts chopped cooked meat or fish to one 
part of thick white sauce. Cheese, macaroni, and some kinds of vege- 
tables are also used in making croquettes. 

Meat Croquettes. 

2 c. chopped cold cooked meat. Few g:rains of cayenne. 

V2 tsp. salt. Few drops of onion juice. 

Spk of pepper. 1 c. thick white sauce. 

Mix in order given, shape, roll in fat-proof coating, and fry. 

Thick White Sauce. 

2 tbsp. butter. % tsp. salt. 

4 tbsp. flour. Pepper. 

1 c. milk. 

Make the same as other white sauces. 

IiESSON 11. ' 
Veal. 

For Notes on Veal, see Lesson 15, First Year. 
Breaded Veal. 
Cut veal steak iw pieces suitable for serving, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and roll in fat-proof coating. Saute in hot lard. Chops 
may also be used. 

Baked Breaded Veal. 
Place veal steaks in dripping pan, cover with buttered and sea- 
soned crumbs. Bake In a fairly hot oveB about 30 min., or until tender. 
Add a small amount of water if crumbs brown too quickly. Serve with 

tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce- 

For recipe see Lesson 22, First Year. 



46 

LESSON 13. 

Pork. 

Pork is the name given to the flesh of a pig or hog. It should 
be eaten sooh after it is killed and dressed. Good pork snould be pale 
red in color, firm, ami the fat white and clear. Pork has more fat 
than any other meat. The leaf lard comes from leaf-shaped pieces of 
solid fat which lie just inside the flank. Fresh pork is hard to digest, 
but is made more wholesome by salting and smoking. Pork should be 
thoroughly cooked and eaten only in cold weather, as it is more liable 
to disease than any other meat. 



Pork Chart. 




Cuts of Pork. 

1 — Ham. Frying and boiling. 

2. — Tenderloin. Frying and roasting. 

3. — ^Loin. Chops and roast. 

4. — Ribs,. Chops and roast. 
, 5. — ;Leaf lard (inside). Lard. 

6. — Tail piece. Sausage. 

7. — Clear back fat. Salt pork. 

8. — Flawk. Salt pork and bacon. r 

9. — Shoulder. Boiling. 
' to.— -Jowl. Head cheese. 
" I'l .'^— Hocks. Pickling and boiling. 
12. — Feet. Pickling and boiling. 



Broiling. 

Broiling is cooking directly over a bed of coals, which should be 
free from smoke and flame, or over a gas flame. The surface of the 
meat being exposed to intewse heat, coagulates, and the flow of the 
juices is started, upward, then the meat should be quickly turned and 
the other side seared, so preventing the loss of the juices. Turn again 
and again until browned. On'ly tender, juicy meats should be broiled. 

Pan-Broiling. 

FVir pan-broiling, have the pan very hot before putting in the meat, 
Rub it lightly with a bit of fat from the meat. Let the meat lie on one 
side until seared, then turn it and continue turning occasionally until 
done. If melted fat collects in the pan, pour it off. Season and serve 
like "broiled meat. 

Broiled Steak. 

Grease the broiler with a bit of fat from the meat. Wash meat 
quickly. Place the thickest part of the steak near the middle of the 
broiler. Turn the broiler every ten seconds until seared, then less 
often. When well browned om both sides, put on a warm platter. Season 
with salt, pepper and butter. 

Steak % in. thick should be broiled from 6 to 8 min, 

Pan-Broiled Chops. 

Wipe chops clean and put into a hot frying-pan, without grease. 
Turn as soon as seared. Brown nicely on both sides. Put on a warm 
platter. Season. Beef steak may be cooked in the same way. 

TiKSSON 13. 
Ponltry, 

The flesh of poultry has less red blood and Is drier than the flesh 
of animals. It is not marbled with fat, as that Is found In layers just 
inside the skin and around the Irrtestines. Chicken Is easily digested. 
It is found in market throughout the year. From March till June, the 
Spring chickens are the best. 

Turkeys and ducks are best during the winter months. 

The best chicken's have soft, yellow feet, short thick legs, smooth 
moist skin, plump breast, and the cartilage on- the end of the breast 
bone is soft and pliable. 

Pin feathers always indicate a young bird, and long hair an older 
one. Older fowls have long thin, necks and feet and sharp scales; the 
end of the breast bone is hard, the flesh has a purplish tinge, and there 
is usually a large amount of fat. 

To Prepare a Fowl for Cooking. 

Pick out pin feathers, remove the hair by singeing over a blaze, 
and wipe with a damp cloth. Cut off the head and remove the wlad 
pipe and crop, cutting skin down the back of neck. Cut through the skin 
just below the leg joint without cutting the tendons. ' Place leg at edge 



48 

of board and break the joint; hold th-e fowl firmly in the left hand an-d 
pull off the foot with the tendons. In old birds the tendons must be 
taken out one a a time, using a steel skev^er or fork. Make an incision 
below thp breast bone, with the hand remove the entrails, gizzard, 
heart and liver. The last three are called giblets. Do not break the gall 
bladder, lying on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. Remove 
carefully the lungs and kidneys, lying in the hollow of the back bone. 
Remove the oil-bag, and wash the fowl by letting cold water run 
through it, but do not let it soak in cold water. Clean the giblets 
carefully. 

Roast Chicken. 

Clean and stuff chicken. Sew up the incision. Rub all over with 
soft butter and salt. Tie it ivfto a compact shape, fastening the legs and 
wings close to the l^ody, dredge with flour lay pieces of salt pork over 
it. Place in a hot oven, and when' flour browns, baste with boiling water 
every 10 min. Turn the chicken, that it may brown evenly. When the 
breast meat is tender, the chicken is sufficiently cooked. Roast a 4-lb. 
chicken about 1 % to 2 hours. Use as little water as possible. 

Stuffing. 

1 c. crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

4 tbsp. chopped salt pork. Sage, marjoram or thyme. 

V4. c. boiling water. 

SeasoB crumbs, add water and salt pork and stuff the fowl, press- 
ing in lightly snd sewing incision. 

(Jravy. 

To the fat in the pan, add 1 c. boiling water and 1 c. milk. 
Thicken with 4 tbsp. flour wet in cold water. Cook till thick, or make 
like roast beef gravy. 

Creamed Chicken on Xoast. 

1 % c. cold chicken cut fine. 1 c. white sauce. 

Heat the chicken in the sauce. Serve on toast. 

LESSON 14. 

A'^egetaMes. 

Escalloped Onions. 

Peel and wash onions. Cook in boiling water with % tsp soda 
for 5 mm. Drain, cover with boiling salted water and cook 1 hr or 
until tender. Drain, put a layer in a baking dish, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and cover with white sauce. Repeat until dish is nearly 
full. Cover with buttered crumbs and brown in a hot oven. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Scald tom.toes and remove the skins. Cut in small pieces and put 
in a stew pan. Season with salt, pepper, butter -and a little sugar if 
desired. Stew slowly, about % br. or longer if not very ripe lev 
bread crumbs may be added before removing from fire. "^ *^ ' ^ '*"'' 



49 

ICscalloped Tomatoes. 

Put a layer of stewed tomatoes in the bottom of a baking dish. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper and dot with butter. Repeat until dish is 
nearly full. Sprinkle the top with buttered crumbs and bake in a hot 
oven until brown. Crumbs may be put in between tbe layers if pre- 
ferred. 

LESSON 13. 
Salads. 

For notes on Salads, see Lesson 20, First Year. 

Vegetable or Macedoine Salad. 

Cold cooked peas, carrots, beets, string beans or almost any cold 
vegetable may be combined in this salad. Cut beets and carrots irr one 
fourth inch cubes, string beans and celery in short lengths. 

Mix each vegetable separately with French or boiled dressing, and 
arrange them in sections, forming a circular mound upon a bed of let- 
tuce. Let vegetables of contrasting colors come n'ext each other and 
garnish with radishes, celery tips and small lettuce leaves. 

French Dressing. 

3 tbsp. olive oil. % tsp. salt. 

1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice. Cayemie. 

Stir seasoning into the oil, add vinegar and stir hard until the 
dressing thickens slightly. 

Boiled Dressing. 

1 tsp. salt. Yolks of 2 eggs or 1 whole egg 

% tsp. mustard. ?4 c. milk. 

1 tbsp. sugar. hi c. vinegar. 

Few grains Cayenne. 1 tbsp. butter. 
1 tbsp. flour. 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten eggs and milk. Cook over hot 
water until it thickens, stirrlog constantly. Add vinegar slowly, and 
butter; strain if necessary and cool. If it curdles, beat with Dover egg 
beater until smooth. 



LESSON 16. 

Salad — Continued. 

Salmon Salads. 

1 hard boiled egg. 1 can salmon. 

Drain oil from salmon. Remove skin and bone. Flake fish, beiffg 
very careful not to mash. Add egg, cut into dice and moisten with 
salad dressing. Chopped sour pickle, cucumber cut inlo dice, broken 
nut meats and shredded lettuce may be added. ■ 



50 

^ ear Salad. 

1 lb. cold cooked veal. 1 stalk celery or 1 cucumber. 

Nut meats. 
Dice meat, add celery or cucumbers cut in dice, then nut meats. 
Moisten with dressing and serve on shredded lettuce. 

Salad Dressing. 

4 tbsp. flour. Dash of cayenne pepper. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 2 eggs. 

1 tsp. salt. % c. vinegar. 

1 tsp. mustard. Va c. water. 

3 tbsp. olive oil or l%..tbsp, butter, 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten eggs, vinegar and water. 
Cook over hot water until thick. Add butter, or, if oil is used, add 
very slowly 'when cool. 

LESSON 17. 

Starch. — Potatoes. 

For notes on Potatoes and Starch, see Lesson 17, First Year. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 
Dice raw potatoes iine. Put into a buttered baking dish, season 
with salt, pepper and butter. Cover with milk and bake % hour or 

until soft. 

Potato Puff 

6 potatoes. 2 eggs. 

2 tbsp. butter. Salt and pepper. 
% c" milk. 

Boil and mash potatoes, add butter, milk, seasoning and yolks Df 
eggs. Fold in the beaten whites. Place in a buttered baking dish and 
bake in a hot oven about 10 min. Serve at once. 

LESSON 18. 

Starch. — Tapioca. 

■ Tapioca is almost pure starch obtained from the root of the cas- 
sava plant, a native of South America. It is put orr the market in sev- 
eral forms. Pearl, Minute, Instantaneous ajad Flake. 

Apple Tapioca. 

% c. tapioca. % c. sugar. 

3 c. boiling water, 5 apples. 
% tsp. salt. 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak in cold water over night or several 
hours. Minute tapioca need not be soaked. Pour over it the boiling 
water, and pook in? a double boiler until transparent. Stir often and 
add salt. Pare and slice apples, put into a baking dish, sprinkle over 
them the sugar, and if liked, lemon juice. Pour over them the tapioca 
an-d bake until apples are very soft. Serve hot or cold. A delicious varia- 
tion may be made by using half pears or canned quinces and half 
apples. 



51 
Xapioca Cream. 

% c pearl tapioca. % c. sugar. 

I'pt. milk. % Isp. salt. 

2 eggs.'. % tsp. van'illa. 

Soak tapioca in hot tv^er enough to cover, in the top of the double 
boiler, placed on the back of the stove. When the water Is absorbed, 
add the milk and cook until the tapioca is transparent and soft. Add 
sugar and salt to the beaten yolks. Pour the boiling mixture slowly on 
them, return to the double boiler and cook 2 mini." or till it thickens 
slightly. Remove from the fire, add the flavoring and beatea whites. 
Cool and serve. 

LESSON 19. 
Bflans. 

String beans. There are two varieties, green and yellow (butter 
beans). The green beans are the best flavored and are' in market' 
from .July to October. 

Shell beans are sold in pods or shelled. They are in market during 
July and August. These are Lima beans. Dried beans may be had 
throughout the year. 

Beans are deficient in fat and therefore should be cooked with 
some form Of it. They are easily digested if the hull is broken, hut if 
not the digestive juices canot penetrate them; hence split beans which 
have the hulls removed are more easily digested. 

Steaming- 

A mold or tightly covered tin can may be used for batters, while 
doughs maybe placed in the bottom of a steamer. The mold should be 
thoroughly greased and if it has no cover, a piece of strong brown 
paper, greased; may be tied over the top. Place the molds in a steamer 
over boiling water or on a rack in a kettle of boiling water. Keep the 
water boiling and as it evaporates, replenish with more of the same 
temperature. 

Boston Baked Beans. 

1 pt. beans. 1 tsp. mustard. 

Vi tsp. soda. % Vd. salt pork. 

1 tsp. salt. 1 small onion. 

Vi c. molasses. 

Pick over, wash beans and soak over night in cold water. Drain, 
add soda and cover again with cold water. Boil 20 min., or until the 
outside skin cracks. Boil the' pork 20 min., saving the water in! which 
it was boiled. Put the onion and pork in the bottom of the bean jar. 
Pill with beans and pour over them the molasses, with which the seas- 
oning has been mixed. Cover with the water in which the pork was 
TDOiled, an-d bake slowly for 5 or 6 hrs. Cover while baking and add 
water as needed. Brown sugar may be used instead of molasses. 



52 

Boston Brown Bread. 

] c. rye flour. % tsp. salt. 

1 c. cornmeal. % c. molasses. 

1 c. graham flour. 2 c. thick sour milk. 

2 tsp. soda. 

Mix dry ingredients. Add milk and molasses and beat well. Pour 

into greased molds. Grease covers also stnd never fill molds more than 

% full. Half molasses and half brown sugar may be used. Steain 3 % 

hours. 

LESSON 20. 

For Sponge Bread, see Lesson 23, First Year. 

BREAD. 
Vtenna Bread. 

1 pt. milk. 2 tsp. salt. 

1 pt. boiling water. 1 cake yeast dissolved in 

2 tbsp. sugar. 1 c. lukewarm water. 

2 tbsp. lard or butter, • Flour to make a soft dough 

Put the salt, sugar, lard and milk in a bowl and pour over them 
the boiling water. When lukewarm add yeast and flour enough to 
make a dough. Turn' on a well floured board and knead until smooth 
and elastic. Put into a greased bowl, grease the top to prevent a hard 
crust from forming. Cover closely and do not let drafts of cold air 
strike it. Let rise till it doubles in size, over night In winter, about 3 
hours in summer. Knead lightly to work out bubbles of gas. Shape 
into loaves .or rolls. Let loaves rise in the pan % to % hrs. and bake 
40 to 60 min. or till a rich brown and the loaf emits a hollow sound 
when tapped on the bottom. 

Rolls should rise in the pan from 1 to 1 1^ hrs. and bake in a hot 
oven 2 minutes. 

Oatmeal Bread. 

2 c. oatmeal. % c. sugar. 

3 c. boiling water. 1 cake yeast dissolved in 
1 tbsp. lard. 1 c. lukewarm water 

. 1 tsp. salt. Flour. 

Scald the oatmeal with boiling water, add lard, salt, sugar, and 
when lukewarm, the dissolved yeast cake. Add flour enough to make 
a very stiif dough, so that the spoon will stand upright in it. 

Beat thoroughly as the flour is added. Let rise about 2 hours 
or till light. Put in greased pans and let rise about % hr. The pan should 
be % to % full. Bake 1 hr. in a moderate oven. 

LESSON 21. 
Coffee Cake. 

1 c. scalded milk. % cake yeast dissolved in 

2 tbsp butter or % a boiling water, 
butter aued lard. ^ egg. 

Vt c. sugar. Flour. 

1 tsp. salt. 

Add butter, sugar and salt to milk. When lukewarm, add dis- 
solved yeast cake and egg well beaten. Add flour enough to make a 
stiff batter; cover and let rise over night; knead lightly in the morning. 



53 

spread ia greased dripping pan, cover and let rise again. Before 
baking, brush with beaten egg and cover with following mixture: Melt 
3 tbsp. butter, add % c. sugar. Remove from fire when sugar is par- 
tially melted, add 1 tsp. cinnamon and 3 tbsp. flour. 



LESSON aa. 

Uses of Stale Bread. 

Stale bread, if heated ia a closely covered pan, becomes almost 
like fresh bread, and can be used again on the table. Keep pieces of 
stale bread by themselves In a jar or covered bowl. Slightly stale 
pieces may be used for toasts. Dry 'broken pieces in a warm oven until 
they are crisp but not brown. 'Crush and sift the crumbs and keep 
in a glass jar closely covered. They will keep for several weeks. 
Coarser and browned crumbs may be used for, the tops of escalloped 
dishes. Broken pieces not dried are suitable for bread puddings, stuffi- 
. ing, and fillings for escalloped dishes. Bread, dried slowly in the oven 
until brittle and browir all through, is liked by many people and is 
excellent for children. 

Bread Pudding. 

1 pt. to 3 c. stale bread crumbs. Vz tsp. salt. 

1 qt. milk. 2 tbsp. butter. 

2 eggs. Nutmeg or cinnamon. 
Vi^ c. sugar. 

Soak bread crumbs in milk. Beat eggs, add sugar, salt, butter 
and spice. Stir this mixture into the bread and milk. Put into a bak- 
ing dish and bake 1 hr. in a moderate oven. If desired, add 1 square 
melted chocolate. 

Egg Toast or Fried Bread. 

1 egg. 1 ssp. salt. 

1 c. milk. 10 slices bread. 

Beat eggs slightly, add miHt awd salt. Dip bread quickly into the 
mixture. Saute, browning on both sides. Serve with butter and syrup, 
or with a lemon sauce for dessert. 

Yellow Sauce. 

1 egg. 1 c. powdered sugar. 

1 tbsp. cream. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Beat egg till thick and lemon colored. Xdd cream and sugar 
gradually, continue beating. Flavor and serve. 



liESSON 2.?. 

In makiHg cookies, care should be taken not to make them too 
stiff or they will be dry. Handle as little as possible to avoid making 
them tough. Roll only a part of the dough at a time, cutting the 
cookies as close together as possible. Place in the pans with an inch 



54 

space between each cookie to retain the shape. Cookies require a hot 
oven, and should be removed from the pan while hot to prevewt 
breaking. 

Sour Milk Cookies. 

% c. butter. 1 c. sour milk. 

2 c. sugar. 1 tsp. soda. 

2 eggs. ' A"bout 4 c. flour. 

Mix in order given, mixing, soda with 2,.c. flour, then adding flour 
enough to roll. Turn on a floured b09.rd, roll about ^4 inch thick, cut 
and bake on- floured tins. , 

Sour Milk Ginger Cookies. 

1-^ c. butter. . 2 tsp. ginger and nutmeg, 

i c. sugar. ' Vz c. sour milk. 

1 c. molasses. 2 tsp. cinnamon. 

1 egg. 1 tsp. soda. 

Spk. cloves, allspice; Flour. 

Mix in order given, mixing the soda and spices with 2 c. flour, and 
continue as for sour milk cookies. 



liESSON 24. 

Sour Milk Chocolate Cake. 

V2 c. butter. % c. boiling water. 

2 c brown sugar 1 tsp. soda. 

2 eggs. 1 square chocolate. 
V2 c. sour milk. 2 c. flour. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beaten eggs, sour milk and 
boiling water, with soda and chocolate dissolved in it. Add flour and 
bake in greased tins. 

Sour Milk Spice Cake. 

1 c. sugar. 2 c. flour. 

3 tbsp. lard or butter. % tsp. cinnamon. 
1 c. sour milk. i^ tsp. cloves. 

1 egg. - 14 tsp. ginger. 

1 tsp. soda. % tsp. nutmeg. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and cream again. Add beaten 
egg, sour milk, and flour mixed with soda and spices. Bake in a 
greased pan in« a moderate oven. 



LESSON 25. 
Sour Milk Fried Cakes. 

% c. shortening. 1 tsp. cream tartar. 

2 c. sugar. % tsp. salt. 

3 eggs. Flour. 

1 pt. sour milk. % tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg. 

1 tfip. soda. 

Mix in order given, mixing soda, cream of tartar and salt with 2 
c. flour, then more flour to make a soft dough. Turn on a floured 
board, roll about % inch thick, cut and fry. 



65 

Potato Pried Cakes. 

2 good sized potatoes. 2 eggs. 

2 tbsp. butter. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. sugar.. % tsp. salt. 

^.^ tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg. Flour. 

Boll and mash potatoes, add butter, sugar, eggs and.2 c. flour mixed 
with ^alt and baking powder, then more flour to make a soft dough 
Turn on a floured board, roll % inch thick, cut and fry.; -■>= 

LESSON 26. 
.Com Fritters. 

1 pt. corn. i- tsp. salt. 

% c. flour. gpk. pepper. 

V2 tsp. baking powder. 1 or 2 eggs. 

If fresh corn is used, score down the center of each row, cut oft 
kernels, and with the back of a knife press out the pulp. If canned 
corn is used, chop fine and add 2 tbsp. milk. Add beaten yolks, flour, 
baking powder and seasoning to the corn, fold in beaten whites. ' Saute 
by dropping by tablespoonsful into the hot fat. Brown on both sides. 
Do not pile one on another or the lower ones will be greasy and soggy. 

Apple Fritters. 

1 V2 c. flour. ' ] egg. 

1 tsp. baking powder. 1 tbsp. butter. 

14 tsp. salt. 2 tart apples. 

1 c. milk. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg, and butter, melted. 
Pare, core and slice apples in small pieces and stir into the batter, or 
cut in round slices and dip into the batter, one at a time, and saute 
or fry. 

LESSON 27. 
Apple Dumplings. 

2 c. flour. 2 tbsp. shortening. 
4 tsp. baking powder.- 1 scant c. milk. 

Vs tsp. salt. 3 apples. 

Mix as for baking powder biscuits. Roll 14 in. thick. Put saucer 
on dough, and cut around with a knife. Place on this dough 
sliced apples. Sprinkle with sugar, fold the dough over the apple, 
pinching it down thoroughly. Steam 1 hr. and serve with a sauce or 
cream, or place in a baking dish and pour over them a syrup made with 
1 c. sugar, 2 c. boiling water and 1 tbsp. butter, and bake 45 min., cov- 
ering the first half hour. 

Pudding Sauce. 

2 tbsp. butter. 1 c. brown sugar. 

4 tbsp. flour. 2 tbsp. lemon juice. 

t % c. hot water. 

Melt butter, add flour and then hot water gradually. Cook until 
thick and smooth and add sugar. Stir until sugar is melted, add lemon 
juice and serve hot. 



56 

LESSON 28. 
Dutch Apple Cake. 

2 c. flour/ 4 tbsp. butter and lard mixed.- 

3 tsp. baking powder. 1 c. milk. 
^/J tsp. salt. 1 egg. 

2 apples. 

Mix dry ingredients, cut in the butter, add milk and beaten egg. 
Spread on greased shallow pans. Pare, core and cut apples inr slices, 
laying them in rows on top of the dough, pressing in slightly. Sprinkle 
top with sugar and cinnamon mixed, and bake in a hot oven from 20 to 
3 min. Serve with sauce. 

Peach Cobbler. 

1 c. flour. 6 or 8 peaehes. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 2 tsp. hutter. 
% tsp. salt. % c. milk. 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit. Pare and slice peaches, and 
put in the bottom of a bakin'g dish. Add 1 c. sugar and V2 c. water 
Cover with better and bake 30 min. in 9. moderate oven. Serve with 
cream and sugar. Canned or dried peaches or berries may De used. 



LESSON 29. 

Cookies. 

% c. butter. % tsp. flavoring. 

1 c. sugar. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

1 or 2 oggs. ' Vz tsp. nutmeg. 

% c. milk. 21^ c. flour. 

Cream butter, add sugar, beaten eggs, milk, flavoring and flour 
mixed with baking powder and nutmeg. Turn on a floured board, roll, 
cut and bake on greased tins about 10 min. 



LESSON 30. 

The general thickness of cake batters varies with its kind. The 
batter for loaf cake should drop from the spoon in a thick mass. For 
layer cakes, the batter should drop in ribbons, breaking often. For 
sponge cake; should be thin enough to pour. 

(See notes. Lessons 32 and 33, First Year.) 

Mother's Cake. 

V2 c. butter. 1 c. milk. 

1% c. sugar. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

3 eggs, beaten separately. 3 c. flour. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then beaten yolks and flavor- 
ing. Mix flour and baking powder, and add alterntely with the milk. 
Beat well and fold In beaten whites. Bake 40 to 50 min. in a moderate 
oven, if a loaf; 20 to 25 min. if in layers. 



57 

Boiled Frosting. 

1 c. sugar. • White of 1 egg. 

Vz c. water. ^4 tsp. vanilla. 

Vs tsp. cream of tartar. 

Mix sugar and water and cream of tartar. Heat gradually and 
boil slowly without stirring until syrup will thread, when dropped from 
tip of spoon or tines of a silver fork. Pour gradually on white beaten 
very stiff, awd continue beating until thick enougji to spread, th«n add 
flavoring. If beaten too long, it will not be smooth. If not beaten 
long enough, the frosting will run. 

LESSON 31. 

The oven for baking sponge cake should be hot enough te turn; a 
piece of white paper a light brown in 5 min. 

To Mix Sponge Cake. 

Separate yolks from whites of eggs. Beat yolks till thick and 
lemon colored, using an egg beater; add sugar gradually, and continue 
beating, then add flavoring. Beat whites till stiff and dry, add to the 
first nii.xture. Mix and sift flour with salt and baking powder if used,' 
and cut and fold it in with the whites at the last. If mixture is beatenr 
after the addition of the flour, much of the work already done of en- 
closing the air is lost. 

Berwick Sponge Cake. 

3 eggs, beaten separately. 1 tsp. flavoring. 

1 % c. sugar. 2 tsp. baking powder. 
Vz c. water. 2 c. flour. 

Beat yolks 5 min., add sugar slowly and beat 2 min. Add water 
aad flavoring. Slip the beaten whites into the bowl, and sift the flour, 
mixed with the baking powder, slowly over them. Fold all together. 
Bake in shallow tins or loaf. Split and fill with cream if for Wash- 
ington pie. Sprinkle the top with powdered sugar. 

Cream Filling. 

2 c. hot milk. % tsp. salt. 
6 tbsp. flour. 1 egg. 

% c. sugar. % tsp. vanilla. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Mix sugar, flour and salt thoroughly. 
Add to milk and cook 10 min. When the filling is cooked stir in the 
beaten egg. Cook 2 min., remove from fire. Cool and serve. 

LESSON 32. 
Gold Cake. 

V, c. butter scant. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

iV4 c. sugar. % tsp. nutmeg. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 2 c. flour. 

1^ c. milk. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and cream again. Add beaten 
yolks, milk, and flour mixed with baking powder and nutmeg. Bake in 
greased tins. 



58- 

Sllver Cake. 

% c. butter. 2 c? flour. 

1 c. sugar. Vz tsp. flavoring. 

Vs c. milk. Whites of 4 eggs. 

3 tsp. baking powder. 

Cream butter, add sugsr gradually and cream again. Add flour 

mixed with baking powder, and milk alternately, then flavoring. Beat 

well and fold in beaten whites. Bake in greased tins. 



Chocolate Frosting. 

2 squares chocolate. Yolk 1 egg. 

1 scant c. powdered sugar. % tsp. flavoring. 

3 tbsp. milk. 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Add one-half the sugar artd all of 
the milk. Add remaining sugar, and slightly beaten yolk. Cook until 
It thickens, stirring constantly. Cool slightly, flavor and spread on 
cake. 



liESSON 33. 

Pastry should be harfdled as little, as lightly and as quickly as 
possible. Winter wheat flour should be used. Butter makes a crisp, 
brown crust ; lard a tender, white crust. The shortening and the water 
should be cold and mixed into the flour with a knife, that the heat of 
the hands may not soften the shortening. If convenient, use a marble 
or glass slab for rolling. Never use cheap materials for a pie. Pastry 
should be put into a hot oven and the heat lessened after a short 
time, as it should rise first and then brown. 

Plain Paste. 

1 % c. flour. Vs; c. lard. 

% tsp. salt. Ice water. 

Mix flour an'd salt. Cut in the lard with a knife. Add water 
gradually, using only enough to moisten. Turn on a floured board and 
roll one-half of it for the lower crust, about % of an inch thick. Fit 
loosely on a pan, cutting around the edges with a knife. Brush thp 
edge lightly with cold water to make the two crusts stick together. 
The pie is then ready to fill. After filling, roll out the rest of the 
dough, making incision in the center to allow the steam to escape. Pit 
the upper crust to the lower crust, cut the edges to fit the pan, and 
press them together to prevent the juices from escapirrg. 

Apple Pie. 

Pare, core and slice apples. Fill the lower crust, heaping slightly 
in the center. Sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg or cinnamon. Add a 
little flour, dot with butter, add a little water. Put on the upper crust 
and bake 35 to 40 min. 



59 

LKSSON 34. 

Pftste No. 2. 

114 c. flour. % c. lard. 

^ tsp. salt. Ice water. 

Vi, c. butter. 

Mix flour and salt, cut in lard with a knife. Ad water gradually, 
using only enough to moisten. Turn on a floured board, roll, dot with 
the butter. Sprinkle with flour and fold toward the center. Roll out 
agalK, and roll up as for a jelly roll. Cut from this enougn for a single 
crust standing on end. Press flat with hand and roll out to fit the pan. 
Flour the pan before putting on the crust. The edge of the crust 
should be slightly fulled to prevent shrinking from the edge of the 
pan. Pill with the fllllog desired, using the rest of the pastry for an 
upper crust. 

Lenion Pie. 

1 Vn c. sugar. Yolks 2 eggs. 

6 tbsp. corn starch. Grated rind and juice 1 or 2 

2 c. boiling wat;gr. lemons. 
1 tbsp. butter. > - • •: 

Mix sugar and cornstarch. Add boiling water, stirring constantly. 
Cook 2 mln., add butter, slightly beaten j^olks and lenion. Pour Into 
a pan amd bake until the crust is brown, about' 25 or 30 min. Cool 
slightly and cover with meringue. A double rim may be used if pre- 
ferred, and the crust baked before adding filling. 

Meringue. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 2 tsp. lemon juice or 

4 tbsp. powdered sugar. % tsp. vanilla. 

Beat whites until stiff, add sugar gradually and flavoring. Spread 
on pie and bake slowly until brown'. 

IJ5SSON 35. 
Graham Piidding. 

14 c. butter.. 1% c. graham flour. 

V-, c. milk. Vs tsp. soda. 

V2 c. molasses. 1 tsp. salt. 

J ggg 1 c. raisins chopped. 

Melt butter, add milk, molasses and beaten egg, mixed dry ingre- 
dients and floured raisins. Pour into a buttered mold, cover and 
steam 2 Vz hrs. Serve with sauce. Individual molds require 1 hr. 

Hard Sauce. 

% c. butter. % tsp. lemon extract or 

1 c. powd, or gran, sugar. ' vanilla. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, awd flavoring. Shape and 

serve. 

Suet Pudding. 

2V, 0. flour. % tsp. ginger. 

1 tsp. soda. 1 e- suet, chopped. 

% tsp. salt. 1 c. raisins, chopped. 

1 tsp. cinnamon 1 c. currants. 

Vz tsp. nutmeg. 1 c. milk. 

V2 tsp. cloves. 1 c- molasses. 
Mix in order given, pour into buttered meld, cover and steam 3 
hours. 



60 

Foamy Sauce. 

V4. c. butter. • 1 egg. 

1 c. sugar. % tsp. flavoring. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and beaten egg. Beat while 
heating over hot water, being careful not to let the butter inelt. This 
should be just warmed to the consistency of cream, but not hot. Flavor 
and serve. 

LESSON 36. 

Sandwiches. 

Bread for sandwiches should be at least a day old and cut in thin 
slices. It is not necessary to remove crusts. Use butter creamed until 
very soft. The slices of bread should fit together. Roll each in oiled 
paper for box luncheons. 

Jjettuce Sandwiches. 

Shred lettuce and put a little on the buttered bread. Dot with 
salad dressing, cover with lettuce aod press on the other slice of bread. 
Trim edges of lettuce with scissors and cut in half. 

E]gg Sandwiches. 

Chop cold hard-boiled eggs, moisten with salad dressing and 
spread thinly between slices of buttered bread. One egg makes three 
sandwiches. 

Sardine Sandwiches. 

Drain oil from sardines. Remove skin and bones. Mash, add 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs mashed fine. Season with salt, pepper and a 
few drops of lemon juice. SpTead thinly between slices of buttered 
bread. 

Use one sardine for each sandwich and allow the yolk of one egg 
for four sardines. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in halves. Remove yolks and put whites 
aside in pairs. Mash yolks, a4d pepper and salt to taste. Put in 
enough melted butter and vinegar or salad dressing to moisten. Refill 
the whites, place halves together and wrap in oiled paper. 

Hani Sandwiches. 

Mince cold boiled ham and moisten with salad dressing or melted 
butter and spread between buttered bread; or put cold boiled ham 
sliced very thinly between slices of buttered bread. One tbsp. of 
minced ham makes one sandwich. 

Relish Sandwiches. 

Chop olives, pickles and English walnuts very fine an4 moisten 
with salad dressing. Spread thinly between slices of buttered bread. 
Pimentos may be added. 



61 

Brown Bread Bandwiches. 

Mash neufchatel cheese, add chopped olives and spread thinly be- 
tween slices of buttered brown bread. 

Lemonade. 

2 tbsp. lemon juice or juice '^ lemon. 

Dissolve in this 3 tb&p. sugar (or to taste). Add 1 glass water. 



LESSON 87. 
Freezing. 

For notes on Freezing, see Lesson 37, First Year. 
Ice Cream. 

2 tbsp. flour. 1 pt. milk. 

I.e. sugar. 1 qt. cream. 

Vi tsp. salt^ 1 tbsp. vanilla. 

1 egg. 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add scalded milk gradually. Cook over 
hot water 15 min., stirring constantly at first. Stir in the egg; cook 
same. Cool, add cream and flavoring. Strain and freeze. 

In freezing, the salt melts the ice. In doing so it draws the heat 
from the mixture in the can and freezes it. 



INDEX 



A Page 

Acids and Alkalies 31 

Albumen .' 13 

Asparagus 35 

Apples — Baked 11 

Apple Dumplings SS 

Apple Fritters -. 55 

Apple Sauce 11 

Apple Water 10 

Apricot Jelly 11 

B 

Bacon — Pan Broi'ed 16 

Baking Powder Biscuits 32 

Baking Powder Notes ; .' . 32 

Batters 32 

Beans — Boston Baked 51 

Beans — Notes 51 

Beans — String 35 

Beef Chart 19 

Beef— Cuts of 19 

Beef Juice 42 

Beef— Notes 19 

Beef— Roast 45 

. Beef— Pot Roast 20 

Beef Tea ; 41 

Blanc Mange 13 

Bread— Baking of. 30 

Bread — Boston Brown 52 

Bread — Corn 33 

Bread Crumbs 9 

Bread— Entire Wheat 31 

Bread— Fried. . 53 

Bread— Notes 29 

Bread — Oatmeal 52 

Bread — Pudding S3 

Bread Recipe 29-52 

JBread — Uses of S3 

Broiling — Notes 47 

Butter — Drawn 43 

C 

Cabbage — Boiled 26 

Cabbage — Scalloped 26 

Cabbage — Notes 25 

Cake — Berwick Sponge S7 

Cake— Coffee S2 

Cake — Cup 35 

Cake— Gold , • • • • S7 

Cake — Mother's S7 

Cake— Notes 34-57 

Cake — One Egg 34 

Cake — Silver 58 

Cake— Sour Milk Chocolate 54 

Cake— Sour Milk Spice 54 



11 

Page 

Cake— To Bake Butter Cake 34 

Cake— To Fill Pans 34 

Cake— To Mix Butter Cakes 34 

Cake — To Mix Sponge Cakes 57 

Canning 39 

Canning — General Rules 39 

Canning — To Sterilize Jars and Rubbers 39 

Caramel Syrup 39 

Cereals — Notes 27 

Cereals — Cream of Wheat . . '. 27 

Cereals— Rolled Oats 27 

Cheese — Dutch 12 

Cheese — Notes -. 28 

Chicken — Creamed 48 

Chicken — Roast 48 

Chocolate 12 

Chops — Pan Broiled 47 

Codfish — Creamed IS 

Codfish Balls 44 

Coffee— Notes 10 

Coffee Recipe 10 

Combining Ingredients — Methods of 7 

Cookies — Oatmeal 3S 

Cookies — Plain 56 

Cookies — Notes 53 

Cookies — Sour Milk 54 

Cookies — Sour Milk Ginger 54 

Cooking — Methods of 7 

Corn Bread 33 

Corn Fritters 55 

Corn Meal Mush 27 

Corn Muffins 33 

Cornmeal — Notes 27 

Cranberries .'. ... n 

Cream for Sponge Cake 57 

Cream of Wheat 27 

Croutons g 

Crumbs — To Butter 9 

CottagePie 20 

Cottage Pudding 33 

Custard — Baked [[[ IS 

Custard — Boiled 14 

Custard — Caramel . . , 42 

D 

Drawn Butter 43 

Dried Beef 15 

Dried Fruits — Notes ■■'.....'.'..'........... 11 

Doughs 32 

Dumplings — Apple ...'.'............ 55 

Dumplings 22 

Dutch Apple Cake -.■■.......].....].[[..[..... 56 

E 

Eggs-^Hard Cooked . I4 

Egg Nog. ...'.'..'.'. 41 

Eggs — Poached 14 

Eggs— Soft Cooked ,4 

Eggs— Stuffed '■'■'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.['.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.' 60 



F Page 

Fat— To Clarify 45 

Foods — Classification 6 

Food — Digestion of 6 

Figs — Stewed 42 

Fish — Baked 43 

Fish Notes 43 

Fish Turbot 43 

French Rarebit ... - 41 

Freezing — Notes. . . 36-61 

Fried Cakes — Sour Milk 54 

Fried Cakes — Potato SS 

Fritters — Apple SS 

Fritters — Corn 55 

Frosting — Beaten 57 

Frosting — Boiled S7 

Frosting — Chocolate 58 

Fruit — Canning .' 39 

Fruits — Dried 11 

Frying — Notes 44 

G 

Gelatine — Notes 11 

Gingerbread 32 

Gravy— Beef 20-45 

Gravy— ^Chicken 48 

Griddle Cakes — Corn Meal 31 

Griddle Cakes— Notes 31 

Griddle Cakes — Sour Milk 31 

H 

Ham and Eggs 15 

Hash 20 

Heat— Effects of Dry 8 

I 

Ice Cream 61 

Ice — Lemon 36 

Ice — Pineapple 36 

Invalid Cooking 41 

Invalid Serving. . .'' 41 

J 

Jelly— Notes 40 

Junket - 12 

L 

Lamb — Notes 22 

Lemonade °1 

Lemon Sauce ^^ 

Lemon Snowballs ■ • ■ ^^ 

M 

Macaroni and Cheese ■ • r 28 

Macaroni — Notes ^° 

Macaroni and Tomato Sauce ^° 

Meat Croquettes ^ 

Meat Loaf ^ 



Meat — Notes 

Meat — Preservation of . 



15 



IV 

Page 

Meat — Three Ways of Cooking 18 

Meringue 59 

Milk— Notes 12 

Minute Pudding 13 

Muffins — Corn 33 

Muffins— Entire Wheat .' 33 

Muffins— One Egg 32 

Mush— Corn Meal 27 

Mutton—Braised 23 

Mutton Chart 23 

Mutton— Cuts of 23 

Mutton Minced on Toast 23 

Mutton — Notes 22 

O 

Oats— Notes 27 

Oats— Rolled 27 

Omelette 42 

Omelette — Beaten , 42 

Omelette— Plain. 42 

Onions — Scalloped 48 

Onions — To Mince 25 

Oysters — Notes 16 

Oysters — Scalloped 16 

Oysters — Soup 16 

P 

Parkerhouse Rolls ". 30 

Parsley— To Chop 2S 

Paste-^Plain 58 

Paste— No II 59 

Pastry Notes 58 

Peach Cobbler 56 

Pectin. ... 40 

Pie— Apple ^ 58 

Pie — Lemon 59 

Pork — Notes ' ' ' . 46 

Pork Chart ] 46 

Pork — Cuts of 46 

Potatoes — Notes 23 

Potatoes — Baked. . . . > 24 

Potatoes — Boiled .. . . 24 

Potatoes — Cakes , ' . 24 

Potatoes — Lyonnaise 24 

Potatoes^Mashed 24 

Potatoes — Scalloped SO 

Potato — Salad 27 

Potatoes — Puflf ' ' ' ' 50 

Potatoes — Stewed ....'./......... 24 

Pot Roast 20 

Poultry Notes. .../.......... 47 

Pudding — Cottage. . '. 33 

Pudding — Graham 59 

Pudding — Suet :...'.................[.. .i. 59 

R 

Rice — Notes 27 

Rice and Cheese '. . ' . 28 

Rice Pudding 13 

Rice — Steamed '..'.......'........'. 27 



V 

Page 

Rolls — Parkerhouse 30 

Rolls— To Shape '. [ , .[ 30 

S 

Salad— Notes 26 

Salad Dressing — Boiled 49-50 

Salad Dressing — Cooked 26 

Salad Dressing — French 49 

Salad— Cabbage 26 

Salad — Macedoine 49 

Salad— Potato ." 27 

Salad — Salmon 49 

Salad— Veal , SO 

Salmon Loaf 44 

Sandwiches, Beef, Raw 41 

Sandwiches — Brown Bread 61 

Sandwiches — Egg 60 

Sandwiches — Ham 60 

Sandwiches — Lettuce 60 

Sandwiches — Relish 60 

Sandwiches — Sardine 60 

Sauce^Caramel 42 

Sauce — Foamy 60 

Sauce — E^ard .'.... 59 

Sauce — Lemon 33 

Sauce — Pudding 55 

Sauce — Tomato 28 

Sauce— White 17, 26, 40. 45 

: Sauce — Yellow 53 

Sausage in Casings 16 

Sausage Meat 16 

Service — Table S 

, Serving — Rules for , 5 

Shortcake 35 

Souffle— Prune - 43 

Soups ■ 17, 18 

Soup — Celery , 40 

Soup — Oyster 16 

Soup — Pea 40 

Soup — Potato 17 

Soup — Tomato 17 

Soup — ^Vegetable 18 

Starch — Notes 23 

Steak— Broiled 47 

Steaming 51 

Sterilizing 39 

Stock 18 

Stuffings 48 

-Sugar . 39 

Syrup — Caramel 39 

T 

Tapioca ' ^ 

Tapioca — Apple ^ 

Tapioca — Cream ^^ 

Tea — Notes ■■ • ■ • -^ 

Tea — Recipe jj 

Toast— Milk \^ 

Toast— Water \]i 

Tomatoes — Canned "'^ 



Page 

Tomato Sauce 28 

Tomatoes — Scalloped 49 

Tomato Soup 17 

Tomatoes — Stewed 48 

Turbot— Fish 43 

Turnip — Notes 25 

Turnips in White Sauce 26 

V 

Veal— Notes '. 21 

Veal— Chart 21 

Veal— Cuts of 21 

Veal— Baked 45 

Veal— Breaded 45 

Veal— Stew 22 

Vegetables— Time-Table for Cooking 25 

Vegetable — Soup 18 

Vegetables — Spring ; 35 

w 

Water 9 

Welsh Rarebit , 40 

Weights and Measures 8 

Wheat Notes : . ' 30 

y 

Yeast — Notes 29 

GENERAL NOTES— 

Care of Dish Towels and Cloths 4 

Care of Refrigerator 4 

Care of Sink 4 

Cleanliness and Cleaning .* 3 

Digestion of Food 6 

Dishwashing 4 

Elements and Compounds 3 

Food Chart 6 

Fire— To Build ', 3 

Hints on How to Work 6 

Methods of Combining Ingredients 7 

Methods of Cooking 7 

Personal Cleanliness 7 

Physical and Chemical Changes 3 

Rules for Serving S 

Supplementary Work — First Year 8 

Supplementary Work — Second Year ....'.... 39 

Table Service [ [[[ S 

Weights and Measures g 



