
Class __Jl3ci43__ 

Book i£stu_ 

Coipght]^° 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSfl^ 



■The Fate of Nations depend on how they are fed ! • 

THE UNIVERSAL <ii^ 
COOK BOOK 



A COLLECTION OF 
TRIED AND TESTED HOME RECEIPTS 



COMPILED BY 

Fannie Frank Phillips and Reeva Huson Levy 



ISSUED BY THE 

Bofitnn Btttxm, (EunntXl of i^mislj Wtumn 



BOSTON: 
Daniels Printing Company 

79 FRANKUN ST. 
1909 



^4' 



LIBRARY of CONGRESS 
Two CoD'ies Received 

FtB 17 W9 

Copyi'iK-nt tntry 
CLASS O^ AXC No. 

COPY a. 



Copyright, 1900 
By Fannie Fra-NK Phillips and Reeva Huson I<evy 
(All rights reserved.) 



fkX 






"Domestic events are certainly our affair." — Emerson. 





PRKFACE. 





Our little book does not claim to exhaust the subject of 
cookery; it rests with such noted cooks as Miss Parloa, Mrs. 
Lincoln and Aunt Babette to do that. 

We simply have touched the important lines, but we trust 
we have done well, and will give satisfaction to the members 
of our Council and all our friends. We have endeavored to 
admit nothing to our pages that is not both practical and excellent. 
The ladies whose names are attached to most of the recipes do 
not claim to have originated all of them. They have been gath- 
ered from many sources, and their excellence tested. The un- 
signed recipes are gathered from valuable sources, and also from 
our too modest members. 

We also offer a supplement dealing with Recipes for pre- 
paring Natural Foods, and as the compilers have had practical 
and' beneficial results from their use, they are most highly recom- 
mended. "^^ 

Furthermore, we felt the need of giving them prominence, 
as their use is more and more advocated by many of the most 
advanced thinkers. 

The Compilers. 



TO THR 

S0jst0tt g^^rttntt, Qlouttnl of 3?unal| Wotmn 

THE COMPUTERS TAKE PLEASURE IN PRESENTING 

THIS EDITION OF THEIR WORK, WITH THE 

HOPE THAT IT WILL BE THE MEANS 

OF ENABLING THE COUNCIL TO 

CARRY ON THEIR WORTHY 

PH ILANTHROPIC 

ACTIVITIES 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



MORS D'OEUVRE. 

AN APPETIZER. 

To BE Served Before the Soup. 

One slice nicely rounded toast. Cover with slice of tomato, 
same size as toast. Place half of a hard boiled e.gg, pointed end 
upwards, on tomato; soak some salt sardellen (those in bottles 
do not need to be left in water as long as loose sardellen) and 
place one on either side of tomato. Place all on lettuce leaf, 
and cover with Mayonnaise dressing before serving one to each 
person. — Mrs. Daniel Frank. 



BAKED CLAMS. 

For Five Persons. 



Steam one-half peck of clams in the shell. Then remove 
the black heads, using only the soft part of the clams mixed with 
bread crumbs. Have ready for use five individual baking plates 
of brown earthenware, filled with rock salt. Then put six oyster 
shells (as they are larger than clam shells) on each baking plate. 
Then place three or four of the soft part of the clams and bread 
crumbs mixed, on each shell, and put a butter ball made of butter, 
chives cut in very fine pieces, and pepper and salt to taste on 
top of same. Put in oven and bake ten minutes. — Mrs. Henry 
Ehrlich. 



PEAR AND GINGER COCKTAIL. 

First Course at Dinner or Luncheon. 

Use very ripe, mellow pears, or cooked pears. Cut the pears 
into small pieces. For eight glasses take about four tablespoon- 



6 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

fuls of sliced ginger root; eight tablespoonfuls of syrup from 
the ginger jar, and six or eight tablespoonfuls of sherry wine 
(Solera). Add a very little powdered sugar and mix carefully. 
Make very cold and serve in cocktail glasses. Do not use too 
much sugar. — R. H. L. 



BEET AND EGG. 

Chop equal parts of pickled beets and the whites of hard 
boiled eggs together. Arrange on round pieces of toast with the 
minced yolks of the eggs mixed with a little chopped chives and 
parsley in a cone on the centre. Sprinkle a few capers on. Sea- 
son well.— i^. H. L. 



MUSHROOM COCKTAIL. 

One jar button mushrooms ; one pint sauce. Place a cup with- 
out a handle, or glass in center of a plate and encircle it with 
four or five white lettuce leaves. On each leaf place two pimolas 
or olives, or pickled walnuts. In each glass put six or eight 
button mushrooms ; cover them well with cocktail sauce. 

Cocktail Sauce. 

One cup tomato catsup; one teaspoonful lemon juice; one 
saltspoonful salt ; two drops tabasco sauce. — R. H. L. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



SOUPS. 

Peas porridge hot, 
Peas porridge cold; 
Peas porridge in the pot, 
Nine days old. 

Take required quantity of meat, and fill pot with water; 
should be boiled in a closely-covered kettle, used for no other 
purpose ; boil slowly and steadily to extract all of the meat juices. 
A granite soup kettle is preferable to any other, as it is more 
easily kept clean. Skim the soup as soon as it begins to boil, 
and never add salt until the soup is strained. When strained 
skim off every particle of fat, and save this fat in a little jar; 
it will come in handy for various uses : in making pie crust, and 
for browning flour and croutons, and for other purposes too 
numerous to mention. Root celery, tomatoes, parsley, onions, 
carrots, asparagus and potatoes are the best vegetables to add 
to the soup stock. Celery leaves should never be used for beef 
soup ; they may, however, be used in potato soup, very sparingly 
with chopped parsley leaves. Bouillon should always be thick- 
ened with yolks of eggs, beaten up with a spoonful of cold water. 
Ordinary beef soup or tomato soup may be thickened with flour. 
In order to do this properly, heat a scant spoonful of soup drip- 
pings ; stir in a spoonful of flour briskly, and add a large quantity 
of soup to prevent it becoming lumpy. 



BARLEY SOUP. 



Put on the barley (a very small teacupful) in a porcelain 
kettle, with about a quart of water. Let it boil slowly on the 



8 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

back of the stove. Put on the soup meat in another kettle, add- 
ing whatever vegetables you may happen to have. As the barley 
thickens, keep adding some of the soup stock, strained of course. 
Salt to taste. The soup meat should be put on to boil about two 
hours before you put on the barley. 



BEEF SOUP A LA JULIENNE. 

"Taste of it first."— King John II. 

Cook all the vegetables in a separate kettle. Use a nice 
piece of soup meat, weighing about four pounds, and a large 
soup bone. Cut up two carrots, two turnips, a quarter of a 
head of cabbage, two heads of celery, a few tomatoes and some 
beans ; cut up a handful of peas very fine and a few tablespoonfuls 
of corn. When the vegetables are tender, pour your soup stock 
over them. Season to taste and serve. You can (if desired) 
add some noodles, cut into little squares or diamonds, but do 
not add too many or the soup will be too thick. — Anonymous. 



LOBSTER SOUP. 

One large lobster; remove the meat from the shell, and 
chop very fine ; one quart milk, one quart water ; when milk and 
water are boiling, add the lobster and three rolled crackers, and 
a quarter of a pound of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Boil 
fifteen minutes. 



GREEN PEA SOUP. 

"A genial savour of certain stews." — Byron. 

Boil fresh green pea pods in water twenty minutes ; take 
them out ; put in the peas ; boil until soft ; take nearly all of them 
out, and add rich milk; thicken with flour; season with salt and 
pepper, and add butter to taste. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 9 

BISQUE SOUP. 

"I will eat this broth with a spoon of amber." — Johnson. 

Three pounds of mutton, one quart of milk, two quarts of 
water, one-half cupful of rice, two slices of carrot, one onion, 
one cupful of stewed tomatoes, three teaspoonfuls of salt, one 
teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of flour, and one table- 
spoonful of butter. Cut all the fat from the meat, and put into 
kettle with rice, vegetables and the cold water; heat slowly to 
boiling point, then skim carefully ; then cover tight, and set back 
on the stove where the stock will simmer slowly four hours. Then 
add butter and flour mixed to a smooth paste, and the salt and 
pepper. Heat the milk in the double boiler, and when boiling 
pour onto the other ingredients. Strain the soup immediately 
and serve. 



SOUP D*ETE. 

Summer Soup. 

One cupful of shelled beans, one green onion, chopped fine, 
a little parsley, one bay leaf, two tomatoes (skinned), one carrot 
cut small; boil together until beans are tender; season with pep- 
per, salt, green ginger ; thicken with a little cornstarch ; add small 
piece of butter, and serve with croutons. 

— Mrs. Henriette Goldstein. 



OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Two ox-tails separated at the joints. Put into sauce pan 
and cover with cold water. Add salt, pepper, a few cloves, all- 
spice, and a few bay leaves. Let all come to a boil, and add one 
tablespoonful of barley, one onion, piece of carrot, parsnip, celery 
and tomato. Boil until the meat drops off the bone. Add a 
little table sauce. — Jessie Springer. 



lo THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Three stalks celery, three cupfuls of milk, a slice of onion, 
three tablespoonfuls of butter, three tablespoonfuls of flour; salt 
and pepper to taste, and one cupful of cream. Break celery into 
one inch pieces, and pound in a mortar. Cook in double boiler 
with onion and milk for twenty minutes. — M. W. 



SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Add two quarts of water (and salt to taste) to a good-sized 
piece of soup meat, and let it come to a boil, and then remove 
the scum. Then add one pint of yellow split peas, three stalks 
of celery cut in small pieces, one small carrot, one small onion, 
and half a cupful of lima beans. Boil all slowly four to five 
hours. Half an hour before serving add small pieces of bologna 
sausage, which gives the soup a good flavor. — Mrs. George Moses, 



EGG SOUP. 

Soup meat with plenty of meat bones; juice of one lemon, 
six eggs; sugar to taste. Boil meat and bones with sufficient 
water to make a good soup; then add juice of one lemon and 
sugar to taste, in order to give the soup a sweet and sour taste; 
strain soup. Break each ^gg into soup separately. — Mrs. R. Sick. 



TOMATO SOUP AND RICE. 

One can tomatoes, juice of one lemon; sugar to taste; one- 
half pint sour cream, one-half pound rice, one cup milk, butter 
size of walnut ; add one quart of water. Boil all and strain ; mix 
with sour cream. To one-half pound of rice add one pint water, 
one cup of milk and butter; boil until thick. Pour tomato soup 
over rice and serve. — Mrs. R. Sick. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. ii 

CREAM OF SPAGHETTI SOUP, SAVOY STYLE. 

Melt one-third a cup of butter; in it cook one-third a cup 
of flour until frothy, then add a quart of broth of any kind and 
stir until boiling; add a second quart of broth and let cook 
fifteen minutes. Break one-half a pound of spaghetti into inch 
lengths and cook until tender in boiling salted water; drain, rinse 
in cold water and drain again, then add to the soup. Beat the 
yolks of four eggs ; gradually beat in from two to four ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese (fresh), then half a cupful of cream; 
stir this mixture into the soup, and continue to stir while the 
cheese melts and the Qgg thickens, but do not let it boil. — 

Reeva H. Levy. 



MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

One quart can tomatoes, three pints of milk, one large table- 
spoonful of flour, butter the size of an tgg, pepper and salt to 
taste, and one scant teaspoonful of soda. Stew the tomatoes, 
and boil the milk in a double boiler, reserving one-half cupful 
to mix with the flour. Mix the latter smoothly, stir into the 
boiling milk, and boil ten minutes. Add the soda to the tomatoes, 
and stir this well and rub through a sieve that is fine enough 
to keep back the seeds. Add butter, salt and pepper to the milk, 
and the tomatoes last of all. Serve immediately. 



BALLS, DUMPLINGS, ETC. (For Soups.) 

BREAD CROUTONS. 

Cut up two slices of bread into small dice, drop them into 
very hot fat, and fry a light brown. Pour soup in tureen, drop 
in croutons, and serve immediately. 



12 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

GRATED EGG FOR SOUP. 

Make an extra stiff noodle dough, so stiff that it can scarcely 
be worked. Grate on coarse grater, and spread on board to dry. 
After the soup is strained, put grated tgg in, and boil ten minutes 
before serving. 



FARINA DUMPLINGS. 

Put one large spoonful of fresh butter in the double boiler, 
and stir in one cupful of milk. When it begins to boil, stir in 
enough farina to thicken. Take it off the stove, and when cold 
add the yolks of two eggs, and also the stiffly beaten whites, and 
a little salt and grated nutmeg, and one-half cupful grated almonds 
if desired. Let the mixture cool, and then form into little balls, 
and drop in boiler ten minutes before soup is served, and let 
boil up once or twice. 



NOODLES. 

Take one handful of flour, a little salt; make a hole in the 
center of flour, break in one tgg, and work enough of the flour 
into the ^gg, mixed with an equal quantity of cold water, with 
a silver fork to make a very stiff dough. More flour may be 
needed. Now divide the dough in equal parts, and roll as thin 
as a wafer with the rolling-pin. Lay the rolled dough on clean 
towels to dry, (do not allow it to become too dry) ; then 
fold together in long narrow strips, and cut in very fine strips 
with a noodle cutter or a very sharp knife. Drop in boiling 

soup, ten minutes before serving, and boil. These noodles are 
delicious served with filled fish, cut in pieces about three inches 
long and three-fourths of an inch wide and boiled in water ten 
minutes, then drained, and placed in covered vegetable dish, over 
which the narrow noodles, fried in hot butter until they are a 
golden brown, are thrown as a garnish. — Mrs. Isidor Phillips. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 13 

EGG CUSTARD. 

Break two eggs in a cup, and fill same up with milk; stir 
until mixture is smooth. Put into a small earthenware or china 
bowl, add a pinch of salt, and set in a pan of boiling water on 
the stove, until it becomes thick. Turn out of bowl, cut in small 
pieces, and put in tureen, just before serving. Do not remove 
from stove until custard is set. 



MARROW BALLS. 

Split the marrow bones, and remove the marrow. Place on 
ice until very cold ; then cream until smooth and soft ; stir in one 
Qgg thoroughly, and just enough cracker meal to form them into 
balls by rolling in the palms of your hands. Try one by drop- 
ping it in the soup, being careful not to get it too stiff. Season 
with ginger, celery salt and nutmeg. Drop in the boiling soup 
fifteen minutes before serving. — Mrs. Isidor Phillips. 



GRATED IRISH POTATO. 

Peel, wash and grate one large Irish potato, or two medium- 
sized ones. Put grated potato in a sieve, and let hot water run 
over it until it is perfectly white. Beat the white of one egg to 
a very stiff froth, (before grating the potatoes) and then stir 
it into the potatoes, and add it to the boiling soup twenty minutes 
before serving. Beat the yolk of an egg up well, in the soup 
tureen, and pour the hot soup over it, stirring carefully. 



GEROESTETE FERVELCHEN (EIRGRAUPEN). 

Egg Barley. 

Make same as you would a noodle dough, only make dough 
stiffer, by adding and working in as much flour as possible, and 



14 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

then grate on a coarse grater. Spread on a large platter to dry ; 
boil in salt water or milk, which must boil before you put in the 
^gg barley, and boil until thick. Serve with melted butter poured 
over them. A simpler and much quicker way is to sift a few 
handfuls of flour on a board; break in two or more eggs, and 
work the dough by rubbing it through your hands until it is as 
fine as barley grains. 



MACAROONS. 

Three tablespoonfuls of cracker meal, scalded with three 
tablespoonfuls of hot soup; then add the yolks of three eggs, a 
pinch of salt and sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs. Stir the mixture well, and fry by 
one-half teaspoonfuls in hot fat. Drop in soup just when ready 
to serve same, and heat the soup well before serving. Excellent. 
— Mrs. Isidor Phillips. 



SPINACH BALLS. 

Equal quantity of finely chopped spinach that has been well 
seasoned and very fine dry bread crumbs. Season to taste with 
pepper, salt and cayenne. Add enough white of egg to moisten 
well and stand ingredients aside to stiffen. Shape into balls the 
size of a hickory nut. Poach in hot soup for five minutes and 
serve three or four to each plate of clear soup. These balls are 
especially pretty served in cream of spinach soup. — Anonymous. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 15 



FISH AND OYSTERS 

WHEN TO EAT VARIOUS KINDS OF FISH. 

Fresh salmon is best in May. 
Pickerel is best from September to January. 
Black bass is best from January to April. 
Carp is best from October to April. 
Shad is best from March to May. 
Trout is good all the year round. 
Lobster is best from May to September. 
Oysters are best from September to April. 



OYSTER LOAF. 

"You cannot choose your earthly lot, 
Nor right all seeming wrongs; 
The clam likes not 
The chowder hot, 
But that's where he belongs. 

One solid pint of oysters, one scant pint sweet cream, one 
five-cent loaf milk bread; pepper, salt, butter to taste. A table- 
spoonful of flour made to a paste with milk. Select a perfect 
stale loaf of bread with firm crust on all sides ; cut off the upper 
crust and remove every bit of the soft bread, crumbing it fine. 
Brown these crumbs in plenty of butter and set aside. Handle 
each oyster to remove bits of shell and throw them into cold 
water. Drain this off and heat the oysters thoroughly, but do 
not allow them to boil. Place the cream over the fire; season 



i6 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

well and thicken with the flour paste. Place a layer of the brown 
crumbs in the empty loaf, a layer of oysters next, then a layer 
of cream ; repeat until loaf is filled. Place in the oven for 
twenty minutes and serve hot. The bread shell acts only as a 
pudding dish. — Amelia M. Arnstein. 

YELLOW STEWED FISH. 

"I have other fish to fry!" — Don Quixote. 

Two pounds halibut, one large onion, one medium parsnip, 
two eggs, one and one-half lemons, butter size of walnut, salt and 
pepper to taste. Cut onion and parsnip in slices, cover with water, 
boil until tender; add salt, pepper and butter; fish cut in slices 
about one inch thick, boil ten minutes. Have eggs beaten in 
bowl and a little of liquid, fish is cooked in, stirring constantly ; 
then pour over fish while on stove and shake pot until gravy 
thickens, (do not boil) and remove from stove. 

— Mrs. Leon Van Vlief. 



TOMATO SHRIMPS. 

"A morsel for a monarch." — Shakespeare. 

One can tomatoes, one quart shrimps, one tablespoon mixed 
spices, three-fourths teaspoon salt, half pint stuflfed olives, two 
eggs. Let tomatoes simmer one hour with spices tied in cheese 
cloth bag. Then add shrimps and salt. Cook ten minutes then add 
olives and their liquid. Have ready buttered toast and hard 
boiled eggs; take from fire, pour over toast and cut eggs in 
slices ; garnish, serve hot. — Mrs. Leon Van Vliet. 



GRILLED SARDINES. 

Stir a cream cheese and a little cream together, and flavor 
with cayenne pepper and grated onions. Spread on squares of 
wheat bread, and on top of each slice put two boneless sardines. 
Broil on under side of bread only. — Mrs. S. Gritman. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 17 

SWEET AND SOUR FISH.— NO. i. 

Shad or salmon cooked sweet and sour is delicious. To a 
four-pound shad or two pounds of salmon sliced, take one small 
onion sliced, one-fourth of a cupful of vinegar, two lemons peeled 
and sliced, with seeds removed. Cover fish and the ingredients 
with two and a half cupfuls of water, and boil until done; then 
remove the fish, using water, etc., in which the fish was cooked 
for the following sauce : — 

Fish Sauce. 

Four eggs, beaten well ; one cupful of sugar ; half a cupful 
of water; a pinch of ground cinamon and one tablespoonful of 
almonds, chopped fine. Add the water, etc., in which the fish 
was cooked, boiling hot to the other ingredients, and beat all well. 

Put back into pot and stir until it is thickened enough for 
sauce, and pour over fish. — Matilda Samuels. 



SWEET AND SOUR FISH.— NO. 2. 

Yellow Sauce. 

Use shad, halibut or mackerel. Boil one-half cupful of 
seeded raisins, one-half cupful of vinegar, or two lemons; one- 
fourth teaspoonful of cinnamon; one-fourth teaspoonful of salt; 
one-fourth teaspoonful of cloves, and one cupful of water, and 
one small onion, if desired, together one-half hour. Add the 
fish, either whole, as when shad or mackerel is used, or cut in 
slices, and boil about twenty minutes longer. Beat yolks of two 
eggs until light. Remove the fish from pot, strain the liquor, 
and, add enough to the eggs to make quantity of sauce desired. 
Heat again, and boil slowly until thick, stirring occasionally, so 
it will be very smooth. In serving pour over the fish, and gar- 
nish with about one dozen raisins. — Mrs. Julius Falkenberg. 



i8 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

FILLED FISH BALLS. 

One haddock weighing about four pounds; salt over night. 
Scrape fish from bone and skin and put in chopping tray, add one- 
half a small onion. Chop fish and onion quite fine ; while chop- 
ping add a little cold water, parsley and nutmeg, pepper and salt 
and celery salt to taste. Soak enough bread in cold water to 
make two good handfuls when water is squeezed out. After chop- 
ping the fish add the bread, a little melted butter and two eggs 
beaten well. Form into about fifteen balls. Use a kettle kept 
for fish; place a plate of some kind at the bottom. Put enough 
water in to cover fish and boil from one-half to three-quarters 
of an hour. Then drain ofif the water, leaving a quart of water. 
Take one quart milk, pinch granulated sugar, one heaping table- 
spoon flour and mix smooth. Add it to the water and put the 
fish in, allowing it to boil until it thickens. Delicious served with 
broad noodles, with fine noodles on top which have been browned. 

w^Mrs. J. Roman. 



SALMON RING. 

Fruit of the wave, O, dainty and delicious ! 

Take one pound of lobster meat, one pound of salmon. Boil 
in salted water until tender. Fill a round tin fish border very 
solid. Cut up two hard boiled eggs, also capers, and small pitted 
olives. Then take two tablespoonfuls of gelatin ; dissolve with 
cold water, add some soup stock and two tablespoonfuls of 
bouillon, one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice. Strain" all through a cloth and pour over fish. 
Put on ice. Can be made day before using. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 19 

LOBSTER CUTLET. 

Her soups scientific, 

Her fishes quite prime; 

Her salads superb, 

And her cutlets sublime. — Moore. 

A lobster weighing about three pounds, (or a can of the 
best lobster), three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one-half cup- 
ful of stock, one heaping tablespoonful of flour, a speck of 
cayenne pepper, salt, two eggs and some bread crumbs. Cut the 
meat of the lobster into very small pieces, season with salt and 
pepper. Heat the butter, add the flour when smooth, add stock 
and one well beaten tgg ; boil up once ; add a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice. Butter a platter and pour the mixture upon it, to 
the thickness of about an inch; make perfectly smooth with a 
knife and let cool. Cut into pieces to resemble cutlets. Dip into 
beaten tgg and then into bread crumbs. Be sure every part is 
covered. Put into frying basket and plunge into boiling fat. 
Cook a rich brown. It will take only a few minutes. Drain 
in frying basket. Arrange on a hot dish with a claw of a lobster 
in each cutlet. — Mrs. A. S. Lauferty. 



DEVILLED CRABS.— NO. i. 

One can crab meat, two hard boiled eggs, piece of butter 
half size of an egg, a heaping teaspoonful of flour, three table- 
spoonfuls of cream, diluted with a little milk ; pinch of 
red pepper, some parsley, one-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
half cupful grated bread crumbs. Grate hard boiled eggs, 
bread crumbs, red pepper, and salt together; add to crab 
meat chopped very fine with parsley. Put butter in a pan ; when 
melted (not brown), add the flour; stir until very smooth and 
add cream and milk ; boil and thicken, then add this to the other 



20 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

ingredients and fill ramekins or shells very full ; put melted butter 
over the top of them and bake in oven for fifteen minutes, or 
until lightly browned. — Mrs. B. E. Frank. 



DEVILLED CRABS OR LOBSTER.— NO. 2. 

Melt three tablespoonfuls butter; add one cupful rich milk; 
season with a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, pinch paprika, and 
sugar, grating of nutmeg, one teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, 
one-half teaspoonful dry mustard; one tablespoonful chopped 
parsley ; simmer two minutes ; beat the yolk of one egg with one- 
half cupful of cream ; add to sauce ; then add two cupfuls of crab 
or lobster meat cut in fine pieces. Fill shells, and put buttered 
crumbs on top, and bake in a quick oven until brown. 



FISH A LA ORLEANS. 

Any kind of large fish may be used. Season fish well, and 
boil it until it can be pulled apart in small pieces. Put a layer of 
fish, then beets, olives and capers in a mold, and continue thus 
until the mold is full. Soak a quarter of a box of Cox's gelatine 
in enough cold water to dissolve it ; then pour the hot liquor in 
which the fish has been boiled on it, until the gelatine is all dis- 
solved. Then pour as much liquor into the mold as it will take 
up, over the layers of fish, and beets, olives and capers. When 
cold, take out of mold, and serve on lettuce, with a mayonnaise 
dressing. — Mrs. M. Lowenherg. 



SALMON CROQUETTES. 

To the contents of one can of salmon, chopped fine, add one 
small onion, one egg, pepper and salt to taste, and one-fourth 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 21 

cupful of cracker crumbs, and stir well together. Mould into 
shape, dip into cracker crumbs, and fry in hot butter until brown. 
Serve with green peas. — Mrs. A. G. Daniels. 



SAGE HALIBUT. 

Four pounds of boiled fish (halibut) chopped, with one- 
half pint of cream, one teaspoon ful each of sage, pepper and 
salt, one tgg. Press in melon mold for two hours. When 
ready to serve heat by placing mould in pan of hot water. Pour 
cheese sauce over it and serve hot. 

Cheese Sauce for Fish. 

Melt one to two and a half tablespoonfuls of butter, and one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of cornstarch, one-half cup milk, one- 
half pound American cheese, cut very, very fine ; season with salt, 
mustard and cayenne to taste. When all is melted, add one 
beaten tgg. Pour hot over fish. — Mrs. G. E, Beekman. 



MARINIRTER (PICKLED) HERRING. 

The most economical way of purchasing Holland herring, 
used for the above recipe, is to obtain a keg containing thirty- 
eight or thirty-nine fish, costing about ninety cents, each one of 
which is a milch herring. Take the herring, wash well, remov- 
ing the heads and scales ; open them and take out the milch, and 
lay them both in cold water over night. Change water several 
times. Next day place the herring in a stone crock with alternate 
layers of sliced onions, sliced lemons, minus the seeds, a few 
whole cloves, whole peppers, some capers, and whole mustard 
seed, and quite a few bay leaves. Take the milch and rub it 
vigorously through a hair sieve; stir in a spoonful or more of 



22 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

light brown sugar and sufficient cider vinegar, diluted with cold 
water, to completely cover the herring in the crock. Pour over 
the herring, and place inverted china saucer on top of same, to 
keep them submerged. A cupful of walnut meats, cut in small 
pieces, greatly improves the flavor. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



PLANKED SHAD. 

Use a goodsized shad, leaving it whole. Do not cut off the 
head or tail. Wash well and season to taste with salt and pepper, 
and rub plenty of butter all over it even on the inside of the fish, 
and fill with the following bread stuffing: — Plenty of melted 
butter and a medium-sized onion cut in small pieces, fried in same 
to a golden brown. A couple of slices of white bread soaked for 
a few minutes in cold water, then squeezed dry, and salt, pepper 
and nutmeg (grated) to taste added and then saute in the butter 
and onion for about five minutes, stirring all the time. Allow 
the above ingredients to cool, and then add one whole egg, 
stirring it in well and fill fish and sew edges together. Place on 
a hickory plant and place fish and plank in a large Russian iion 
pan, and bake in a hot oven an hour or more, until the shad is 
tender and well-browned. Baste frequently with butter and serve 
on plank placed on a suitable platter or not, as desired, and gar- 
nish with slices of lemon and parsley. — Fannie F. Phillips. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 23 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 

"Nor do you find fault with the sauce, keen hunger being the best." 

— Massinger. 
HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

To BE SERVED WITH SALMON AND GREEN PEAS. 

Half a teacupful of butter, half a teacupful of boiling 
water, juice of half a lemon, yolks of two eggs, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a little cayenne pepper. Beat the butter to a cream ; 
add the yolks, one by one, then the other ingredients, and stir 
thoroughly. Place the dish in which the above ingredients are 
mixed in a kettle of boiling water. Beat with an egg-beater 
until it begins to thicken; when it is like a soft custard, it is 
done. Pour over the salmon and peas, and serve hot. 



TARTARE SAUCE. 

Break into a bowl the yolks of two eggs, then stir one 
cupful of olive oil, drop by drop, briskly in. When perfectly 
stiff add the juice of half a lemon, one saltspoonful each of 
salt, pepper and dry mustard, and a dash of cayenne. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of capers, one small shallot, one-quarter of 
a small onion, two cucumber pickles, and one tablespoon ful 
parsley, all chopped fine. 



SAUCE FOR COLD SLAW. 

Two or three eggs, beaten well with a little salt; three 
or four tablespoonfuls olive oil, half a cupful malt vinegar, 
and one cupful cold water; put all on to boil, and stir con- 



24 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

stantly; when mixture begins to boil, add a little dry mustard, 
moistened with a little water. Boil until the sauce is thick 
enough and very smooth. When slightly cooled, add to cold 
slaw, which has been previously salted and pressed, and grate 
a small onion over same. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



CREAM SAUCE. 

Two full tablespoonfuls of malt vinegar, one ounce of dry 
mustard; cook until thick. One tablespoonful of olive oil, one 
scant teaspoonful of sugar; salt to taste, and one whole egg 
beaten well added to the vinegar and mustard, and boiled a 
few minutes. Be careful not to let it curdle. Then add one 
pint of cream, beaten stiff. ''Good for anything." — Mrs. J. Phillips. 



TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cook two tablespoonfuls of butter, and two tablespoonfuls 
of flour together; when frothy, add one cupful of strained 
tomatoes gradually, and half a cupful of rich milk; cook until 
thick and smooth, and season to taste with pepper, salt, onion- 
juice and a speck of cayenne. Fine served with filets of halibut. 
—Mrs. I. Phillips. 



HORSE RADISH SAUCE. 

"A most sharp sauce, — And is it not well served?" — Romeo and Juliet. 

Two tablespoonfuls cracker meal, a little water, and enough 
broth to make quantity of gravy desired ; let it boil ; then add 
a little sugar, and fresh grated horse-radish. Do not boil any 
longer, and just before serving beat in yolk of one tgg. — 
Mrs. Ida Cohen. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 25 

MINT SAUCE. 

The mint should be fresh and tender. Strip leaves from 
the stems of one-half dozen stalks, wash well, and chop very 
fine. Allow two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar to three 
tablespoonfuls of chopped mint; mix well and add six table- 
spoonfuls of malt vinegar gradually. While this sauce is very 
good to be used with lamb or mutton when served hot, it may 
also be used for other meats when served cold. 



EGG SAUCE.— NO. i. 

Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and mix with 
an ounce of butter, one tablespoonful of cream or rich milk, 
and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 



EGG SAUCE.— NO. 2. 

Make a pint of good plain white sauce and add to it the 
whites and yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. This is an excellent sauce to serve 
with cauliflower and other vegetables. 



OLIVE SAUCE. 

Mix together one tablespoonful each of melted butter, flour, 
and one-half cupful of good soup stock, stirring all the ingre- 
dients until smooth and thick. Add one dessertspoonful Worces- 
tershire sauce, and one dozen finely-chopped olives; season with 
salt and pepper to taste, and simmer gently for three mmutes. 



WHITE SAUCE. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, then add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and when thoroughly blended, pour on, 



26 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

gradually while stirring constantly, one cupful of milk; then 
beat until smooth and glossy; season with one-quarter of a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. A wire whisk or 
a wooden quirl (German) are the best utensils to use in making 
sauces. 



LEMON SAUCE. 

Cut three slices of lemon into very small dice, and add them 
to drawn butter; let it come just to the boiling point, and pour 
over boiled fowls. 



MONSIEUR GIRARD'S SAUCE, HOTEL BALMOREL. 

Bknrre Noir. 

Two tablespoonfuls butter (browned in a frying-pan) ; 

when it is very hot, add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley 

and one teaspoonful of lemon juice; salt and pepper to taste. 

Boil up once. Serve on fish. Tres excellent ! — Lisette Hamhro. 



WALDORF SAUCE. 

To BE USED WITH FiSH, MeAT BaLLS OR TiMBALS. - , 

"Change is the sauce that sharpens appetite." 

Half a tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of sherry, 
pinch each of salt and pepper, two tablespoonfuls of tomatoes, 
pinch paprika, one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, and cook carefully ten minutes, 



DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter in a saucepan on 
the stove to melt (not brown) ; stir in two tablespoonfuls sifted 
flour until smooth ; then stir in slowly two cupfuls boilmg water, 
and let it simmer on the side of the stove until it thickens. 
Season with salt and pepper ; stir continually, and when it 
thickens, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 27 



MEATS. 

"I smell it; upon my life, it will do well." — King Henry IV. 

THE PROPER WAY TO BROIL STEAK. 

"A thing of custom, — 'tis no other." — Macbeth. 

If a Porterhouse or sirloin, snip the fat (to prevent curl- 
ing), place the steak on a platter and spread it generously with 
olive oil ( Plagniol, on both sides ; allow it to stand about 
half an hour; if using a gas stove place a pie plate beneath 
the iron grill to catch any drippings. Do not put the light 
on full force, but enough to cook quickly. When done put on 
hot platter. Add chopped parsley to the drippings and pour 
over the steak. — R. H. L. 



SPANISH OLLA. 



One pound slice thin round steak, one dozen olives, two 
tomatoes, one onion, one Qgg. Chop the olives, tomatoes and 
onions. Season freely with pepper, salt and allspice and simmer 
for ten minutes. Cool and beat one raw tgg into mixture. 
Place steak on flat board and pound, then use mixture as filling. 
Roll tightly and tie with cord, securing ends with skewers. Dust 
slightly with flour and broil. Remove string and serve hot. 
This makes enough for two. — L. E. de Haas. 



28 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

BRAISED OX-JOINTS. 

One oxtail ; small quantity of fat and one onion ; brown 
and put oxtail in, then add a little water, and cook a couple 
of hours; then set back to simmer. Cook one carrot cut in 
dice, a few small onions, three or four ball potatoes (white), 
a small quantity of canned peas, mushrooms and tomatoes. 
Skim the fat from the meat, add the vegetables and let boil for 
a few minutes and serve on one platter. Add a speck of 
tobasco. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



PHILADELPHIA SCRAPPLE. 

Select a piece of beef as for soup. When boiled tender 
remove the meat and put the liquor into an earthen vessel to 
let the fat rise. Cut the meat from the bones and mince fine ; 
put into kettle with the liquor after the fat is removed ; add salt 
and pepper to taste. When this boils, thicken with Indian meal 
as for hasty pudding, and cook until thick. When done, mould 
in a brick loaf and when hard cut in slices an inch thick and 
brown on griddle greased with butter. This can be kept on 
hand for days. — H. S. 



MINCE MEAT. 

Six pounds of beef, boiled until tender, and then chopped 
fine. Then add two pounds of suet, four pounds of seeded 
raisins, four pounds of currants, one peck of apples, six lemons, 
two pounds of citron, all chopped fine in the meat-chopper, and 
five pounds of brown sugar, one pint of molasses, one table- 
spoonful each of cinnamon, allspice, mace and cloves, and one- 
half cupful of salt. Boil all together with one gallon of brandy 
and one quart of cider until done. — Miss Emma O'Brien. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 29 

MEAT LOAF. 

Chop fine one and one-half pounds beef and small piece of 
suet, add two eggs, one tablespoon ful of grated onion, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one cupful tomatoes, two tablespoon- 
fuls cracker crumbs; salt, pepper and ginger to taste. Mix 
thoroughly, bake in a hot oven one hour, basting often. — 
Mrs. J. Bensemoil. 



LIVER BALLS. 

Chop fine two pounds of calves liver, three slices of bread, 
and one onion ; add two cups flour, two well-beaten eggs. Mix 
thoroughly with a spoon. Season to taste with pepper, salt 
and nutmeg. Drop by tablespoonfuls into salted boiling water 
and allow to boil ten or fifteen minutes. Remove from liquor and 
fry.— 5. A. 

POT ROAST. 

Four or five pounds of beef from bottom of the round. 
Wash well, rub on all sides with salt, pepper, ginger, and garlic 
if liked. Place in a deep kettle a tablespoonful of chicken or 
goose fat, let it get hot, then put the meat into it and allow it 
to brown on all sides. When thoroughly browned add a cupful 
of water, a carrot (cut up), and small quantity of chili sauce. 
Simmer slowly for three hours. Thicken gravy with little flour. 
If beef is salted the night before, it will be more tender. 



SWEET AND SOUR BEEF. 

Two pounds bottom of the round, cut in small pieces. 
Brown two medium-sized onions in two tablespoonfuls of (fat) 
drippings. Add two tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half cupful 
of seeded raisins, one-half cupful of vinegar, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful of ginger, one-quarter teaspoonful of cinnamon, one- 



30 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

eighth teaspoonful of pepper, one-eighth teaspoon ful cloves, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, and one pint water or soup stock. This 
is also good for fresh ox or calf's tongues. 

— Mrs. Julius Falkenberg. 



STEAK A LA CREOLE. 

"What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ?" — Taming of the Shrew. 

Broil a good-sized steak. Ingredients for Creole sauce: — 
one-half can tomatoes, one can mushrooms, one small bottle 
olives (cut in pieces), one cup boiled rice, good-sized piece 
of butter, two eggs beaten well stirred in last; dash of paprika. 
Let all boil ten or fifteen minutes and serve on steak. — 

Mrs. A. Weiscopf. 



HUNGARIAN GOULASH. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls chicken fat , add one large onion 
cut fine, one pound beef, one pound veal , cut in small pieces ; 
fry until brown ; add salt, paprika, pinch of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful caraway seed, add one cup of hot water ; cover closely, 
let simmer until meat is tender. Slice and parboil six potatoes, 
drain and add to meat. Thicken with a little flour. — 

Mrs. J. Bensemoil. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 31 



POULTRY. 

CHICKEN A LA NEWBERG. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour ; when yellow add one cup of rich milk, two cups of chicken 
cut in dice, one-quarter cup of sherry; mash yolks of three 
hard-boiled eggs, and chop the whites, add to chicken, season 
to taste, let simmer five minutes. Can be used to fill pastry 
shells. — Mrs. J. Bensemoil. 



SALMI OF DUCK OR GOOSE. 

Stew the breast and meaty portions of the duck or goose 
with two small onions, add one-half teaspoon ful paprika, one- 
half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful of ginger, 
and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Cook very slowly. When 
tender add juice of one lemon. Serve hot with olives and 
parsley. — Mrs. Julius Falkenherg. 



TRUE AND TRIED DRESSING FOR POULTRY. 

"The cook deserves a hearty cuffing, 
Who serves roast fowls with tasteless stuffing." — Samuel Ward. 

Soaked bread, the quantity according to the amount of 
poultry; a large onion chopped, a sprig of celery, a liberal 
amount of parsley, a pinch of salt, a shake of paprika, a little 
pepper. Melt a tablespoonful of butter and add two eggs. Put 
all on hot spider and get perfectly dry; then stufiF. Result? 
You will never try any other. — Fannie R. Harris. 



32 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

CHICKEN A LA MARYLAND. 

Two broilers or one small chicken. Cut off legs, wings, 
divide breast into four pieces. Put the gizzard, liver, heart 
and neck in a small saucepan, cover with water; add salt to 
taste, one onion, some celery leaves or stalks, plenty of parsley, 
and allow to cook until giblets are soft (about two hours). 
Have a large frying-pan or deep kettle with hot chicken fat 
ready, salt chicken, cover with flour and fry slowly until dark 
brown. Take from the pan and place on a deep platter. Lift 
the giblets from the gravy (should be two cupfuls of liquid), 
strain and put the liquor into the pan in which the chicken was 
fried, stir vigorously to mix little brown crusts from the pan. 
When boiling about three minutes add one-half cupful of rich 
cream and thicken all with potato flour paste. Add some fresh 
parsley and pour over the chicken. — Reeva Huson Levy. 



POT ROAST FOWL. 

Rub the fowl well with salt and pepper and flour. Have 
some hot fat in a deep kettle ; brown the fowl all over. Add 
enough hot water to cover. Slice two onions and one carrot, a 
little allspice; add to fowl. Cover tightly and cook slowly four 
or five hours. Either strain gravy or serve with vegetables. — 
5. A. W. 



EN CASSEROLE. 

"The glory of the kitchen." — Ben Johnson. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE. 

Cut two small chickens apart the same as you would for 
fricassee, and brown the pieces in hot fat or butter, then add 
two small onions and place in casserole-dish. Add one pint 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 33 

soup-stock, thickened with flour; cover tightly, and cook slowly 
for two hours in the oven. When tender, add one can small 
mushrooms, and one can green peas. Season to taste. — 

Mrs. Julius Falkenberg. 

TURKISH PILAU EN CASSEROLE. 

"Right glad, when she 
By lucky search achieves so rare a dish."— Beaumont and Fletcher. 

Four kidney lamb chops, one cup rice, one pound or one-half 
can tomatoes, one-eighth pound pistache nuts (chopped), one- 
quarter pound suet. Line the casserole freely with the suet, 
then put in the lamb chops, seasoned with pepper and salt. Add 
in alternate layers rice (par boiled) and tomatoes slightly 
cooked and seasoned with salt and sugar. Then sprinkle top 
with chopped pistachio nuts and chopped suet. Close the casserole 
and bake in moderate oven one hour. This makes enough for 
four. — L. E. de Haas. 



GERMAN MEAT AND VEGETABLE STEW. 

For Six Persons. 

Take six very large or nine medium-sized potatoes and cut 
in slices, as you would for potato-salad. Butter casserole dish 
well, and cover the bottom of same with a layer of potatoes, and 
add salt to taste. Cut up two pounds of beef (the top of the 
round) in small dice-shaped pieces and season with salt, pepper 
and onion cut fine. Place a layer of this on top of the potatoes. 
Cut quite a little celery-root, carrot, green-leek and parsley in fine 
pieces, and form a layer over meat. Continue adding layers of 
potatoes, beef and green vegetables until the dish is filled, the top 
layer to be of potatoes. Pour one cupful of water or bouillon 
over all the layers and cover closely, and stew slowly about two 
hours. — Miss Elise Gartner. 



34 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

CANNELON OF BEEF. 

For Six Persons. 

A tender piece of beef from the top of the round, about 
three pounds, and cut lengthwise in thin sHces about one-half 
an inch thick; pound on one side with a potato-masher. Cut 
two medium-sized onions in tiny pieces ; add salt and pepper 
to taste. Put a portion of the above in the centre of each slice 
of beef, and also a thin slice of bacon, and roll and tie with 
string. Put one heaping tablespoon ful each of butter and fat 
in a casserole-dish, and heat to a golden brown. Place rolls 
of beef side by side in dish, and also on top of first row if 
necessary. Put dish in a hot oven, and turn beef rolls con- 
stantly from side to side for the first fifteen minutes ; then add 
another medium-sized onion, cut fine ; water to half cover, and 
a little salt. Keep well covered, and stew slowly until tender, 
in a moderately hot oven. When done, stir a heaping tea- 
spoonful of potato-flour to a smooth paste, in a little cold water, 
and stir into gravy. Let cook five minutes longer, and take 
string off before serving in casserole-dish or on platter, gar- 
nished with parsley. — Miss Blise Gartner. 



VEGETABLES A LA JARDINIERE. 

For Six Persons. 

This is best in the spring. Two medium-sized carrots cut 
in dice, one pint of string beans, cut in very small pieces, one- 
half pint of green peas, after shelling, one head of cauliflower, 
if small, cut in small flowers, one-half bunch of asparagus (not 
too small), cut in small pieces, using only the tender portions. 
Boil each vegetable separately, adding butter and salt to taste, 
and water to half cover. Heat three tablespoonfuls of butter. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 35 

and stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour, and fry to a golden 
brown. Pour a little of the water in which each vegetable was 
cooked onto the flour, and stir until smooth, and cook a few 
minutes. Put all the vegetables in a casserole-dish, mixed well 
together, placing the pieces of cauliflower on top, as they break 
easily. Pour sauce over same. Cook all slowly for five min- 
utes. Add chopped parsley to taste after taking vegetables 
from casserole-dish, and mix well with them, and serve with 
butter-dumplings made as follows : — one scant tablespoonful of 
butter, creamed ; one tgg, stirred in thoroughly ; grated nutmeg 
and salt to taste, and enough breadcrumbs added to make a 
soft batter. Form into balls, using one teaspoonful of the batter 
for each ball. Cook gently for ten minutes in salted water. 
Use as a garnish on top of vegetables. — Miss Rli^ Gartner. 



SOUR POTATOES. 

For Six Persons. 



Twelve medium-sized potatoes, boiled in their jackets until 
done ; peel and cut as for potato-salad ; then set them aside and 
make the following sauce: — two heaping tablespoonfuls each of 
butter and fat, heated in a casserole-dish with one medium-sized 
onion, cut in tiny pieces, then add two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of flour, and stir until it is a golden brown ; then add one quart 
of water, and mix well with other ingredients until smooth ; 
then add two bay leaves, thirty allspice berries, sugar and salt 
to taste, and one tablespoonful of vinegar; more if desired. 
Boil well for ten minutes, and then put the potatoes in, and boil 
very slowly for ten minutes longer. Poach as many eggs as 
desired. Shortly before serving, put eggs in casserole-dish on 
top of the potatoes and sauce and cover with sauce. Fine. — 

Miss Blise Gartner. 



36 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



ENTREES. 

Soup, fish, and meat now out of the way. 
Briskly we turn to the toothsome entree. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS. 

Wash and scald mushrooms until perfectly white. Boil 
about ten minutes in just enough water to cover. When soft, 
drain and cut mushrooms in halves, or in smaller pieces if 
desired. Add a little of the liquid to two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of butter, and one small onion chopped fine, and fry to a golden 
brown. Then add the mushrooms, one tablespoonful of flour 
to thicken, one pint of milk, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir 
all the ingredients thoroughly together and heat well. Serve 
hot. — Mrs. A. G. Daniels. 



CREAMED SWEETBREADS AND MUSHROOMS. 

"By the rose-flesh mushrooms, undivulged last evening." — Browning. 

For Six Persons. 

One pair sweetbreads, one cupful of milk, one tablespoonful 
butter, one-half pound mushrooms, one-half pint cream, one 
scant tablespoonful flour, pepper and salt to taste. Parboil 
sweetbreads in salted water with a few drops of lemon juice for 
twenty minutes. Cut mushrooms in half and boil in one cupful 
of milk and one-half pint cream about one-half hour. Cut sweet- 
breads into dice and add to mushrooms. Melt butter in sauce- 
pan, stir in flour, then turn it into the rest of the mixture and 
boil about five minutes. Serve in ramekins or on slices of toast 
nicely garnished. — Mrs. Daniel Frank. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 37 

SWEETBREADS AND TOMATOES. 

Parboil the sweetbreads the day before using. When ready 
to use, butter a tin, and lay sweetbreads in, and cover with sweet 
cream, and put in the oven. Bake a few minutes, remove frorrv 
the oven, and have ready slices of fresh tomatoes (small ones), 
which have been fried in butter, and seasoned with butter and 
salt. In serving cut the sweetbreads into individual portions the 
size of the slices of tomatoes. — A. 



SWEETBREADS IN GERMAN PANCAKES. 

Make small thin German pancakes in which roll small pieces 
of sweetbreads, that have been saute (fried brown) in butter. 
Garnish with watercress. — Mrs. J. Ackerman. 



VOL AU VENT. 

"Boy, tell the cook I hate all knick-knackeries — 
Fricassees, vol-au-vents, puffs, and gim crackeries!" — Moore. 

Minced chicken, veal, or beef highly seasoned. Fill patties 
(home-made or bought) ; bake in a hot oven and serve with 
hot mushroom sauce. 



MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

One can French mushrooms (champignons), heat and 
thicken with a little barley flour (prepared barley), season to 
taste. A suspicion of garlic is acceptable to many. Pour into 
a dish in which you have whipped up an tgg, stir as you pour; 
add the juice of half a lemon. — Henriette Goldstein. 



CHICKEN LIVERS A LA PHILLIPE. 

One and a half dozen chicken livers, season to taste; six 
medium-sized sweet potatoes boiled, peeled and mashed; one 



38 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

cupful boiled rice (slightly salted). Fry the livers in butter. 
Then take pudding dish, make a border around the inside of 
the dish with sweet potatoes, then inside of that a border of 
rice, anl fill in center with chicken livers; on top of which place 
two slices of bacon, which is removed when entree is ready to 
serve. Cover potatoes with white of tgg not beaten; put in 
fairly hot oven. Bake until potatoes are light brown. Do not 
fry the livers too much or they will be too dry. Put little dabs 
of butter on the rice before baking. — Mrs, I. Phillips. 



STUFFED EGGS. 

Put fresh eggs into cold water, bring to boiling point, and 
let simmer twenty minutes ; drop them into cold water and 
strip off the shells ; cut them in halves lengthwise ; remove the 
yolks, mash and add half the quantity of finely-minced sardines, 
skinned and boned. Season to taste with salt, pepper, dry 
mustard and lemon juice. Aloisten with melted butter and 
press the mixture back into the whites. Fit the halves together, 
fasten with wooden toothpicks, dip in beaten ^gg diluted with 
one tablespoonful of water. Roll in fine dry bread crumbs ; 
fry in deep, hot fat; drain on brown paper, remove the picks 
and serve with tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Cook together two tablespoonfuls of butter, two of flour ; 
when frothy, add gradually one cup of strained tomato and one- 
half cup of rich milk ; cook until thick and smooth ; season with 
pepper, salt, onion juice and cayenne pepper. — Mrs. A. I. Jalknt. 



FILLED MUSHROOMS. 

Use stems of mushrooms chopped fine enough, celery to 
taste, chopped; parsley, pepper, salt, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, one teaspoonful of flour mixed with a bit of milk, table- 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 39 

spoonful of butter, and sherry wine to taste. Fill hollow of 
mushrooms with above mixture and bake in oven. Serve hot 
on toast. Only large mushrooms can be used. The sherry may 
be omitted. — Mrs. G. E. Beekman. 



JELLIED EGGS. 

Take ten eggs, remove a very small section from one end of 
tgg, the smaller the better. Break up yolks and whites by insert- 
ing a steel skewer, and allow them to drain from shells. Then 
wash inside of shells very thoroughly and fill with cold water and 
stand upright, in either a wooden stand, which may be purchased 
for the purpose, costing but a few cents, and will hold one dozen 
egg-shells, or in a pasteboard egg-box with divided sections, in 
which eggs are usually delivered. Now make the following jelly 
to fill shells : — Dissolve one boxful of red Plymouth Rock gela- 
tine in sufficient cold water to cover for about an hour. Then 
add one pint boiling hot water, the juice of one orange, sugar, 
cinnamon and allspice to taste. Heat on stove well and strain 
several times through cheese-cloth. Pour the water from the 
^gg shells and fill them with the strained jelly. Must be prepared 
a day or two before using. Whe nabout to serve crack tgg shells 
very gently and remove from jelly and perfectly formed jelly- 
eggs should result from the above process. Serve in individual 
nests of spun sugar, or shredded lettuce-leaves, or in a large nest 
of either. — Fannie F. Phillips. 



BAKED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Fill ramekins three-quarters full of mild cheese, cut in small 
pieces ; break a whole ^gg on the top of each portion ; then 
add grated cheese on the top of each tgg, and bake in a very 
hot oven about six minutes. Baking the eggs too long toughens 
them. — Mrs. Isidor Phillips. 



40 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



THE CHAFING DISH. 

"Now let the wild wind work its will, 
While snow heaps up the window-sill; 
Light all the lights. Then, if you wish. 
Cook dainties in the chafing-dish." 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Use Cape Cod oysters, drain them. Take one-half cupful 
of liquor, place in chafing dish, add one cupful cream, -jne cupful 
milk (for one pint of oysters) ; while this is heating cream a 
tablespoonful of butter with one and one-half tablespoonfuls flour ; 
stir into cream ; when it thickens add oysters, a few at a time ; al- 
low them to cook about two minutes ; pour in a sherry-glassful of 
sherry. Serve in timbal cases or on toast. Sherry may be 
omitted and one tablespoonful of parsley added. Cape oysters 
need very little salt, if any. — Reeva Huson Levy. 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 

Four pounds of lobster cut in small pieces, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one tablespoonful flour, one-half pint cream, and yolks 
of two eggs well beaten. Heat the butter, and add the lobster 
meat. Mix the cream and eggs together and add the flour, 
which has been made into a smooth paste. Stir all thoroughly, 
so as to avoid lumps. Season with the juice of one-half a lemon 
or one small wineglassful of sherry wine, as preferred ; salt 
and pepper to taste and a pinch of bicarbonate of soda. Serve 
very hot on toast or crackers. — Mrs. Julius Falkenberg. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 41 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Melt one teaspoonful of butter in a chafing-dish or double 
boiler, and add one pound of mild cheese cut in squares ; stir 
until smooth, and then add the yolk of one ^ggy one-half tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard, one-half teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Stir all the ingredients well together, and then 
add one-half cupful of ale or beer, and mix thoroughly. Then 
pour while hot on toast, and serve. — Mrs. Felix Kornfeld. 



42 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



EGGS. 

"The vulgar boil, the learned roast an egg. — Pope. 

Eggs beaten with a knife will cause sorrow and strife, 
Eggs beaten with a spoon, will make heavy soon. 
Eggs beaten with a fork are as light as a cork. 

STUFFED EGGS.— NO. i. 

Boil twelve eggs hard, and divide in halves lengthwise ; mash 
the yolks fine, and also the contents of one box of sardines, 
and mix with the yolks. Fill the halves of the eggs with this 
mixture, and put them together to look like whole eggs. Serve 
on lettuce-leaves. — Mrs. Felix Kornfeld. 



TOMATO OMELET. 

Three or four eggs well beaten together with salt and 
pepper to taste ; add a heaping tablespoonful of tomatoes, stewed 
with a Httle fried onions to flavor. If the tomatoes are thickened 
use also one tablespoonful of boiling water to each tgg, mixing 
it in just before placing in the pan. Have the pan hot with 
plenty of butter. Pour in the mixture, taking care not to allow 
the centre to burn. When omelet is brown on the under side, 
place in the oven, to finish the process of cooking. (The boiling 
water makes it light and pufTy.) When a nice light brown, 
fold and serve at once. — Mrs O. S. Judah. 



CHEESE FONDU. 

One cupful scalded milk, one cupful stale bread crumbs, 
one cupful of mild cheese cut in small pieces, one tablespoonful 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 43 

of butter, one-half teaspoonful salt, yolks of three Qgg^, and the 
whites of three eggs. Mix the first five ingredients well together, 
and add the yolks of the eggs well beaten, and last of all fold 
in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in buttered dish 
twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. — A. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Oh, egg within thy oval shell. 
What palate tickling joys do dwell. 

Heat plenty of butter in a hot spider; when it is near the 
boiling point drop in a good sized onion cut into tiny pieces 
for the purpose. Fry in the butter until a golden brown, and 
very tender. Then pour six eggs, well beaten but not separated, 
over the onions. Stir with a silver fork towards the centre. 
Take off the stove when creamy, which takes but a few moments. 
Delicious. — Mrs. Isidor Phillips. 



HARD BOILED EGGS. 

Boil eggs from three-quarters of an hour to an hour, and 
they will then be found to be both creamy and easily digested. 
— Mrs. I. Phillips. 



GENUINE POTATO PANCAKES. 

"A certain knight swore, by his honor, they were good pancakes !" 

— As You Like It. 

Pare and wash about ten large potatoes, grate them and 
then add three eggs, one onion, grated, and salt to taste, and 
one heaping tablespoonful of flour to them, beating all well 
together. Do not pour off the water that appears after grating. 



44 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

but mix thoroughly. Have your fat very hot in the frying-pan. 
Take a spoonful of batter, and drop it into hot fat, turn with 
pancake turner over and over again in the hot fat until they are 
crisp and brown. — Florence Levy. 



STUFFED EGGS.— NO. 2. 

Boil desired number of eggs twenty minutes, and cut in 
halves lengthwise ; remove the yolks, and mash to a paste. Chop 
olives and add to the mashed yolks, and mix with mayonnaise 
dressing. Put the mixture back into the halved whites of the 
eggs. Serve on lettuce-leaves, and add pimolas to top of eggs, 
one to each tgg. — Mrs. Samuel Mitchell. 



GRIDDLED EGGS. 

Heat the griddle almost as much as you would for baking 
cake ; butter it lightly and arrange small muffin rings on it. Drop 
an egg in each ring and turn as soon as lightly browned. They 
resemble fried eggs, but are far more delicate. — Anonymous. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 45 



VEGETABLES. 

"Take the goods the gods provide thee." — Dryden. 
KITCHEN TIME-TABLE. 

BOILED. 

Potatoes 30 minutes 

String beans From 30 to 45 minutes 

Lima beans, (fresh) 20 minutes 

Sweet potatoes 3-4 of an hour 

Green peas 3-4 of an hour 

Green corn 20 minutes 

Asparagus 30 minutes 

Spinach 20 minutes 

Fresh tomatoes 30 minutes 

Canned tomatoes 20 minutes 

New cabbage 30 minutes 

Beets 1 or 1 1-2 hours 

Squash 3-4 of an hour 

Carrots, (cut in dice) 30 minutes 

Cauliflower 20 minutes 

Onions 30 minutes 

Parsnips 45 minutes 

Macaroni 20 minutes 

Rice 30 minutes 

Cucumbers 20 minutes 



46 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

BAKED. 

Potatoes : 45 minutes 

Sweet potatoes, (if large) 1 hour 

Beans 6 hours 

Biscuit 20 minutes 

Turkey 2 to 3 hours 

Roast, (medium rare, 8 pounds) 1 1-2 hours 

Ducks 2 hours 

Fish 3-4 to 1 hour 

Mutton, (8 pounds) 3 hours 

Veal, (8 pounds) 3 hours 

Lamb, (8 pounds) 3 hours 



CREAMED OYSTER PLANT.— (Salsify). 

Scrape two bunches salsify, slicing into pieces one-quarter of 
an inch in thickness, and put immediately into water containing 
some lemon juice, to retain whiteness ; drain and put in boiling 
water, using enough to cover it, and let cook about three-quarters 
of an hour, salting the water during last half hour's boiling. 
Drain and serve with cream or parsley sauce, the latter made 
with the water in which the salsify is cooked, with the addition 
of a little milk or cream. — Mrs. F. J. L. 



MOCK OYSTERS. 

Cook oyster plant as above (or use what has been left over), 
put in a bowl and mash thoroughly; when all smooth add one 
beaten tgg and one-half cup of browned bread crumbs (or 
cracker dust) ; form into pieces size of an oyster, dip in egg, then 
in cracker dust and fry in deep fat until dark brown. Serve 
with triangles of lemon. — Mrs. F. J. L. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 47 

ESCALLOPED BEANS AND CORN. 

One can string beans or one can Lima beans, one can sweet 
corn, one-half cup milk; butter a baking dish and arrange a 
layer of beans ; dot with butter, season to taste, then put on 
this a layer of corn about half an inch deep, season, and so 
proceed until dish is filled. Then pour over all one-half cup 
milk (cream makes it more delicious), and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs ; bake until the crumbs are browned. — Mrs. M. H. 



POTATO APPLES. 

"A morsel for a monarch." — Shakespeare. 

Boil six good-sized potatoes for half an hour or so, then 
mash them. While hot, add to them, butter the size of a walnut, 
and one tgg beaten light, one teaspoonful salt, quarter of a 
teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Form them into balls resembling 
apples. Fry in deep fat, and put a clove in each end. — 

Mrs. Edward Rintals. 



SWEET AND SOUR CARROTS. 

Take four or five carrots ; wash them and scrape oflF the 
skin, and cut them into dice-shaped pieces. Put on to boil, 
and almost cover them with water, to which a teaspoonful of 
salt has been added. When they are soft (it will take about 
thirty minutes), add half a cupful of seeded raisins. Then take 
two teaspoonfuls of flour, and enough vinegar to thin it; mix 
flour and vinegar, a piece of butter the size of a small eggy 
and two teaspoonfuls of granulated sugar in with the carrots. 
Let all simmer for fifteen minutes, and serve. — Mrs. R. Dreyfus. 



48 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

SPAGHETTI A LA ITALIENNE. 

Divide one-half pound of spaghetti into pieces eight inches 
long ; cover with boiling water and add one tablespoonful salt, and 
cook rapidly fifteen minutes. Drain and serve witli meat sauce 
made as follows : 

Meat Sauce. 

To one cupful of meat gravy add one cupful of tomato 
sauce and a small onion cut up fine. Cook about twenty min- 
utes, and strain. Thicken with flour; add one tablespoonful 
catsup or Worcestershire sauce. Serve grated Parmesan cheese. 
Good with pot roast. — Eva van Dam. 



SPINACH. 

German Style. 



Use two pecks of spinach for a family of eight, as it will 
be much smaller when boiled. Cleanse by removing tops and bad 
leaves, and washing many times. Put in hot water, and boil 
half an hour. Drain the water off and chop fine in the meat- 
chopper. Make a dressing by putting a large tablespoonful 
of good fat or butter in a spider, and when it is very hot adding 
a small tablespoonful of flour, and mixing them until they are 
a golden brown. Then put spinach in with a little soup stock 
to thin it, and a little salt, and simmer slowly for half an hour. 
When ready to serve, slice hard-boiled eggs, and place on top 
as a garnish. — Airs. R. Dreyfus. 



CREAMED ASPARAGUS. 

Boil two cupfuls of asparagus tips in salted water for fifteen 
minutes, drain ; while they are cooking put one cup of milk 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 49 

in a double boiler; when boiling pour some of it onto two 
lightly beaten eggs, stirring vigorously meanwhile, then return 
to double boiler and stir until it begins to thicken. Add one 
teaspoonful of butter, season to taste. Add tips to the sauce. 
Take five stale rolls, cut off the tops, remove inside, put in the 
oven until crisp. Fill each with creamed asparagus. 

— Reeva H. Levy. 



CHESTNUT "GEMUSE" (VEGETABLE).— NO. i. 

One pound chestnuts (French chestnuts preferred), one 
pound of prunes, one cupful of granulated sugar, three large 
onions, one-half pound flank (procure a piece of meat with 
plenty of fat), two tablespoonfuls of molasses; salt and sugar 
to taste. Boil prunes about one hour with meat and onions 
and sugar; then remove prune-stones. Peel and blanch chest- 
nuts, and add them to the above, boiling all together for an 
hour additional. Add molasses and sugar, and salt to taste, 
about fifteen minutes before serving. — Mrs. M. /. Bornstein. 



POTATO DUMPLINGS. 

Boil twelve medium-sized potatoes (after paring), and cook 
them the day before the}^ are to be used. Grate or chop very 
fine, and brown one medium-sized onion in two large spoonfuls 
of fat, and add this to the potatoes first of all and then two eggs 
well beaten and add enough flour to make a stiff batter, like 
bread dough. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Roll the 
desired size and boil in salted water for ten minutes. Serve 
at once. — Mrs. Julius Falkcnberg. 



SWEET AND SOUR SAUCE FOR DUMPLINGS. 

Boil one-half cupful of sugar and one pint of water together, 
and add one tablespoonful of butter and the juice of one lemon, 



50 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

one teaspoonful of cornstarch or flour mixed to a paste with 
cold water; then add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, last 
of all ; do not cook them, simply heat on back of stove. Season 
with salt and cinnamon or any desired flavor. 

Mrs. Julius Falkenbcrg. 



CHESTNUT GEMUSE (VEGETABLE).— NO. 2. 

One pound of French chestnuts peeled and soaked in cold 
water for two hours ; scald and scrape oiT all skin ; four or 
five medium-sized potatoes parboiled, one cupful or more of 
prunes (stoned), one-half cupful of seeded raisins. Mix all 
the above ingredients together and add enough water to cover, 
and boil slowly, closely covered, for two hours, with one cupful 
of sugar, juice of one lemon, one tablespoonful of chicken fat 
or butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, and salt to taste added. 
— Mrs. J. P. Morse. 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Delicious Luncheon Dish. 

Take good-sized tomatoes, scrape out centers ; fill each one 
with a raw egg broken into it, and over this grate American 
cheese, and sprinkle cracker crumbs with a little melted butter 
over the top of each. Season to taste. Bake twenty minutes 
and serve hot. — Aimee Goulston Sturm. (Chicago, 111.) 



PARISIEN BRUSSEL SPROUTS. 

Cook in salted water until tender ; drain when cold, roll 
in bread crumbs or cracker dust and fry a light brown in butter. 
Lemon juice sprinkled over them before serving. 

— Lisette Hambro. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 51 

CREAMED MACARONI. 

"Stuck a feather in his hat and called him Macaroni." 

One-half pound macaroni put in boiling salted water, boil 
twenty to thirty minutes ; while it is cooking prepare the follow- 
ing : one pint of milk put on to boil ; when boiled add three 
tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour which has been worKed 
to a paste, salt and pepper, one-quarter pound grated American 
cheese and one-quarter cupful rich cream. Drain macaroni, 
pour the sauce over; serve at once. — Deborah B. Freiman. 



SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

"Mine eyes smell onions, I shall weep anon." — All's Well That Ends Well. 

Peel and slice thin raw potatoes. Butter dish , put in a 
layer of potatoes, season with salt and pepper, add some grated 
onion and fleck with butter; on this place another layer of 
potatoes etc., continuing until dish is full. Before putting in 
oven add one pint of milk. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 
— Deborah B. Freiman. 



DELMONICO POTATOES. 

Fill a baking dish with a layer of creamed potatoes, then 
a light layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of Parmesan cheese, 
grated fresh, and so continue until the dish is filled. Put bits 
of butter here and there on the last layer, which should be of 
cheese. Bake in a moderate oven until a golden brown. Serve 
very hot. — Fannie Frank Phillips. 



COUNCIL BAKED BEANS. 

One pint kidney beans ; soak in cold water over night ; 
drain and put beans in bean-pot. Mix thoroughly one-half 



Established 1875 



Downer & Co* 

Members of Boston Stock Exchange 

28 STATE STREET 
BOSTON, - - MASS. 

Commission Orders 
Transacted in all Mzurkets 



Private Wire to New York Stock Exchange 
Telephones, Main 1090 • 1091 



James W. Bowbn Harry M. Stcnembtz 

Member Boston Stock Exchange 



J.W.Bowen&Co. ' 

STOCK and BOND 
BROKERS 

25 and 26 Exchange Building 



American Telephone 
Securities 



COMPLIMENTS OF 

M. C. Barnard & Co. 

New York and Boston 

Stock Exchange and 

Curb Stocks 

35 CONGRESS STREET 
BOSTON 



Maynard & Potter 

(Incorporated) 

Diamonds, Pearls 

Semi-Precious Stones 

Complete Services in Sterling Silver for 
the Table, Desk, Toilet 

416 BOYLSTON ST. 
BOSTON 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 53 

cupful of molasses, a saltspoonful of dry mustard, two table- 
spoonfuls of brown sugar, and one-half teaspoonful of salt. 
Pour over beans, and add one-half of a medium-sized onion. 
On top of this put one-half a pound of very fatty beef. Bake 
in a slow oven for 6 hours, adding a little water from time to 
time, as needed. Pea-beans may be substituted for the kidney 
beans. — Reeva Huson Levy. 



54 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



SALADS. 

"I warrant there's vinegar and pepper in it !" — Anthony and Cleopatra. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

"How green you are and fresh!" — Shakespeare. 

Boil fowl until tender; let cool in the liquor in which it 
was boiled, remove the skin. Reject whatever of the meat is 
tough or sinewy. Cut the meat into dice about one-quarter 
inch in size, mix with white crisp celery in the proportion of two 
measures of celery to three of chicken. Then add cooked may- 
onnaise dressing as follows: Add the well beaten yolks of four 
eggs to five tablespoonfuls of boiling vinegar; cook until stiff, 
stir while cooking. Remove from fire, add large lump of butter, 
stir until cold and perfectly smooth ; season to taste with salt, 
pepper and mustard. Mix with whipped cream to required 
consistency. Before serving add about one-half pound Malaga 
grapes cut in halves and seeded, and one-half pound English 
Walnuts. — Mrs. A. S. Lauferty. 



ENDIVE SALAD. 

One-half dozen stalks, washed thoroughly (separated), put 
in cheese-cloth bag, lay on ice for an hour. Place a good-sized 
curled lettuce leaf on each plate. Put seven or eight pieces of 
endive lengthwise, cover ends generously with mayonnaise to 
which one tablespoonful of chopped celery has been added 
(celery salt may be used if celery is not available), two small 
radishes cut into roses with a sprig or two of parsley for 
garnishing. — Reeva Huson Levy. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 55 

CUCUMBER BOAT SALAD. 

*'How cucumbers along the surface creep, with crooked bodies." — Dryden. 

Cut cucumber lengthwise without peeling into halves, remove 
the inside without injuring the shell and mix with tomato, 
radishes, green-peppers, etc., cut in small pieces ; put back into 
shell. Serve on lettuce leaf with French dressing. — R. B. 



GERMAN MEAT SALAD. 

Two cups cold beef cut into dice, two cups cold boiled 
potatoes cut into dice, one cup cold boiled carrots cut into dice, 
one cucumber, one cup cold boiled peas, one onion (chopped), 
three hard-boiled eggs (chopped fine). Mix the ingredients 
(except eggs) in the order given in large bowl. Add dressing 
made as follows : One teaspoonful dry mustard, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls sugar, dash of pepper; mix well, 
add two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one-half tablespoon ful water. 
Add slowly two tablespoonfuls olive oil, stirring steadily till 
prefectly mixed. Pour over the mixed vegetables and spread 
chopped Q.gg on top. This makes enough for from four to 
six people. — L. E. de Haas. 



AMERICAN SALAD. 

One cup scraped thinly sliced celery, one cup diced apples, 
one-half cup chopped English walnuts, one-half cup seeded white 
grapes. Mix well with mayonnaise. Serve on large, crisp, 
lettuce-leaves. Enough for four or six persons. — Reeva H. Levy. 



POTATO SALAD. 

Take twelve large potatoes, boil in their jackets from thirty 
to forty-five minutes. Skin while hot, cut in medium-sizied 



56 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

pieces. Two onions cut in very small pieces or grated, salt to 
taste; then add the following: One cupful of olive oil, three- 
quarters of a cupful of malt vinegar, one and one-half cupfuls 
of cold water; boil oil, vinegar and water, five or ten minutes, 
then throw over potatoes. Add a little celery salt and plenty 
of capers and three or four tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs, olives and parsley. 
— Fannie Frank Phillips. 



SALMON SALAD. 

Remove all small bones, mash the salmon with silver fork, 
add two tablespoonfuls each of chopped celery, sweet pickles 
and parsley, and over this, when thoroughly mixed, pour the 
following : 

Mayonnaise. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of 
water, one and one-quarter teaspoonfuls mustard, two tea- 
spoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful butter, one tgg and a little 
salt. Put vinegar, water and sugar on to heat until sugar 
dissolves. Beat ^gg and mustard together thoroughly, pour 
the hot vinegar into the tgg, constantly stirring; replace on fire, 
cook until it thickens, then stir in butter. When cold pour over 
salmon. Serve on lettuce-leaves. — Clara Marx, (Chicago). 



POLISH SALAD. 



Six good-sized boiled beets, chop fine, one tablespoonful 
horseradish (grated). Mix all with French dressing. Serve 
on lettuce-leaf. — S. M. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 57 

SALAD PIQUANT. 

"These crisp and tender leaves aright, 
Will surely serve to whet your appetite." 

One head of lettuce, three stalks of celery, one-half a small 
onion (grated), one tablespoonful chopped parsley, one table- 
spoonful of capers, one slice of pickled beet (cut in shapes 
for garnishing), a few sprigs of parsley (for garnishing), four 
tablespoonfuls vinegar or lemon juice, four tablespoonfuls olive 
oil (Plagniol), one saltspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonfui sugar. 
Have lettuce crisp; shred it into salad bowl that you have pre- 
viously lined with the large lettuce leaves; cut celery into half- 
inch pieces, place on shredded lettuce, then grated onion, parsley, 
beet and capers. Mix oil, vinegar, sugar and salt thoroughly, 
pour over salad. Put on ice one-half hour before serving. 
—R. H. L. 



FISH SALAD. 

Boil a piece of halibut in salt water; when tender drain 
and put on platter. Boil small scooped potatoes, small beets, 
string beans and cauliflower until tender; drain and decorate 
edge of platter in following manner: Potatoes next to fish, a 
few sprigs of parsley next, then beets, then cauliflower, beans 
and outer edge cauliflower. Over all pour a good French 
dressing, allowing it to stand an hour to thoroughly saturate 
the fish. Serve with mayonnaise. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



LOBSTER SALAD. 

Buy live lobsters and drop in salted boiling water and boil 
from twenty minutes to half an hour. Separate the meat from 
the shell and cut in half-inch pieces. Reserving the tomalley. 
Add salt and mix plenty of olive oil with lobster ; put on ice 



58 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

for a few hours. Then add twice as much cold water as malt 
vinegar, a little celery salt and plenty of mayonnaise dressing 
and the tomalley. Garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs, radishes 
and olives and serve on tender lettuce leaves. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



MACKEREL SALAD. 

Wash mackerel and wrap in clean brown buttered paper, put 
in pan in oven and bake until the skin adheres to the paper when 
you remove it. Open fish, place on platter and take out the 
bone. 

Dressing. 

One-quarter cupful cider vinegar, one-half cupful of cold 
water, one-quarter cupful olive oil. Mix well together, season 
with small pieces of onion, celery salt, and a few capers. Garnish 
with sliced lemons and parsley. — Fannie Frank Phillips. 



SOLOMON GUNDY. 

Soak three Holland herring in cold water twenty-four 
hours; wash skin and remove all bones; chop fine with one 
Bermuda onion, two apples, two hard-boiled eggs, season with 
one-half teaspoonful of sugar and a pinch of pepper. Take the 
milch and mash until creamy, adding gradually one-half cup 
vinegar, then mix thoroughly with the herring paste; if too 
sour add a tablespoonful of water. — Mrs. J. Bensemoil. 



COLONIAL SALAD. 

Select one firm, ripe tomato for each guest. Peel and 
remove a thin slice from the flower end; scoop out all the pulp 
and remove seeds. Sprinkle with salt, stand on ice for two 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 59 

hours. Chop the pulp, and to each cupful add one tablespoonful 
chopped nuts and one cup of celery cut in small pieces and one 
tablespoonful of salt pickles. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 
Drain the tomatoes and wipe dry. Fill them with salad mixture 
and top off with salad dressing. Serve very cold on lettuce- 
leaves. — Mrs. S. Gutman. 



EGG SALAD. 

Slice one dozen hard-boiled eggs ; add one small onion, 
chopped fine, three stalks of celery cut into dice, three or four 
lettuce-leaves, chopped fine, pepper and salt to taste, and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Stir well together with one-quarter cupful 
of vinegar to which has been added one-quarter cupful mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve on lettuce-leaves with mayonnaise dressing 
on top. — Mrs. A. G. Daniels. 



BRUSSEL SPROUT SALAD. 

Boil sprouts until tender (about twenty minutes) ; drain, 
set aside to cool. Sprinkle with salt and lemon juice one hour 
before serving. Line salad bowl with crisp lettuce-leaves, put 
in the sprouts and cover with mayonnaise. — Lizzette Hambro. 




C^HENTIUn 

Slicks eYerythiag bnt is not Sticky 

Unaffected by fire, water or chemicals 

For Sale at all Drusrgists' and Hardware Stores 

EXPERT CHINA RESTORING 

CAEMENTIUM SALES CO. 
120 Boylston Street 



W. Bixby & Company 

1 16 & 1 18 Blackstone St. 

and 

153 Hanover St. 
Boston, - - Mass 

IMPORTERS OF 

James Plagniol Extra Superfine 

Olive Oil 

ALSO A FINE LINE OF 

Sherries, Ports, Madeiras 

AND THE WORLD RENOWNED 

"Guillermo Doblache" Natural 
Sherry "Palm Solera" 

Especially adapted as a tonic (or those suf- 
fering from Diabetes and Stomach troubles 



Telephone Connection 

Rhodes Bros. Co. 

IMPORTERS and RECEIVERS 
ON COMMISSION 

GROCERIES and PROVISIONS 

Wholesale and Retail 

438 to 444 Tremont St. 
170 to 174 Mass. Ave. 
256 to 260 Warren St. 

(Roxbury District) 

10-11 Harvard Sq., Brookline 
BOSTON 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 6i 



SALAD DRESSINGS. 

"In dressing salad mind this law — 
With two hard yolks add one that's raw." — Samuel Ward. 

ITALIAN SALAD DRESSING. 

Suitable for Vegetables, Baked Beans, Etc. 
One-half teaspoon dry mustard, one-half teaspoon salt, 
dash pepper, one teaspoon sugar, juice of onion about one-half 
ounce, one raw tgg, one teaspoon red vinegar, one teaspoon 
tomato ketchup, one tablespoonful olive oil. Mix dry ingre- 
dients thoroughly. Work in vinegar, ketchup, and onion juice 
and egg, beating rapidly. Pour in oil until it forms a syrup 
like liquid. — L. E. de Haas. 



HIBERNIAN MAYONNAISE. 

"Olive oil is it! Well! I use Erin's Isle." — Bridget. 

Four tablespoonfuls vinegar, four tablespoonfuls water, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful sugar, one saltspoonful mustard, one salt- 
spoonful salt, one tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls 
spinach (chopped, uncooked). Put vinegar, sugar, salt on to 
heat. Separate eggs ; beat yolks and mustard ; beat whites to stiff 
froth. Pour gradually the hot vinegar into the yolks, stirring 
constantly; return to double boiler, add butter, do not stop 
.stirring until thick. Remove from fire to cool. Mascerate two 
tablespoonfuls chopped spinach (uncooked), press through a 
sieve, add to mayonnaise. Add whites when mixture is cold. 
Should be a delicate green. — Reeva H. Levy. 



62 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

MAYONNAISE. 

One tablespoonful sugar, one tablespoonful mustard, one 
small spoonful salt, one cup best vinegar, one tgg, a bit of 
cayenne. Put mustard, sugar, salt, pepper and vinegar in an 
earthen kettle, set in boiling water. Stir as it heats. When 
well cooked, add the tgg, well beaten, and stir all together. 
When cool set away in glass jar. To prepare for salad, two 
tablespoonfuls of dressing to four of whipped cream. — 

Adah Brown Guild. (Vermont.) 



BUTTER SALAD DRESSING. 

Two eggs, four tablespoonfuls butter, melted, one teaspoonful 
salt, one tablespoonful mustard, one and a half cupfuls thin 
cream, one teaspoonful flour, one-half cupful vinegar, dash cay- 
enne. Add melted butter and vinegar when cream begins to 
scald. Boil as one would a soft ciistard. 



CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cupful grated cheese, one and a half cupfuls flour, one 
and a half tablespoonfuls butter, salt to taste and enough milk 
or cream to make a firm dough. Roll out and cut in small strips 
and bake. — Mrs. Ida Cohen. 

Note: — To be served with salads. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 63 



SANDWICHES. 

"The chief pleasure in eating does not consist in costly seasoning or 
exquisite flavor, but in yourself." — Horace. 

CELERY SANDWICHES. 

One cup finely-chopped celery, six stoned olives, one table- 
spoon English walnuts (shelled and blanched) ; moisten with 
mayonnaise dressing, making a paste. Spread upon slices of 
thin bread and butter. — Mrs. W. Shapiro. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR SANDWICHES. 

Eggs and Parmesan cheese (grated). 

Eggs, cheese and nuts. 

Eggs and watercress. 

Eggs and anchovy. 

Olives, ground, and mayonnaise. 

Chopped peppers with mayonnaise. 

Peanut butter. 

Salmon and French dressing. 

Cream cheese and pimolas. 

Banana with orange juice. 

Caviare and lemon juice. 

Smoked tongue and sardellen. 

Pimolas, walnuts and cheese. 

Sweet potato on toast. 

Chicken, celery, walnuts. 

Sardine paste, eggs, lemon. 



DENNISON'S 
PAPER NAPKINS 

Made under most cleanly of 
conditions, of finely creped, 
pure white paper, with 
graceful designs. Appro- 
priate for every holiday. 
Printed in fast colors. 

No other napkin possesses these 
characteristics. Ask for Dennison's 

DENNISON MFG. CO. 

26 Franklin St., Boston 




56 WINTER STREET 
BOSTON 

S. ARONSON 

flDanufacturlng jfurrter 

43 West Street 

Tdephone. Oxford 882-2 BOStOn 



Foster Brothers 

PICTURES 

AND 

FRAMES 

COLONIAL MIRRORS 

4 PARK SQUARE 

BOSTON 

The Boston Advocate 

Tbe Jewish WeeKiy 
of iNcw Enqiz^nd 

$2.00 per year 

The Brightest and Most Readable 

Jewish Publication for the 

Home Circle 

A weekly budget of real news 

Write for Sample 

173 Surnrper St., Boston 

Railroad and Steamship 

TICKETS 

Agents all Railroads, Coastwise and 

Transatlantic Steamship Line* 
Lowest Rates to Europe 
Tickets and Tours Daily to all Resorts 

Beekman Tourist Co. 

293 Washington St. 

Corner School St BostOQ 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 65 



BREAD AND ROLLS. 

"Bread is the staff of life V'—Swift. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

"Brought out a dusky loaf that smelt of home." — Tennyson. 

One cup rye meal, one cup granulated corn meal, one cup 
graham flour, three-quarters tablespoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
salt, three-quarters cup molasses, two cups sour milk or one and 
three-quarters cups sweet milk or water. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients, add molasses and milk ; stir until well mixed. Turn 
into a well buttered mould and steam three and one-half hours. 
Do not fill mould more than two-thirds full. — M. W. 



BROWN BREAD. 

"Methinks I see the old oak table spread, 
The clean white trencher, and the good brown bread." — Southey. 

One cup corn meal, one cup rye meal, one cup sour milk, one 
cup water, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup white sugar, one 
large teaspoonful soda, one small teaspoonful salt. Steam three 
or four hours. — Adah Brown Guild. 



THOROUGH BREAD. 

"I live with bread like you." — Richard II. 

For Three Loaves. 
One quart entire wheat flour, one-half yeast cake, one flat 
teaspoonful salt, one flat teaspoonful sugar, one flat tablespoonful 
butter, two and a half cups tepid water. Mix thoroughly, set 



66 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

in warm place to raise (about six hours) ; knead ten or fifteen 
minutes, form into three loaves, put in pans; allow it to stand 
from one to one and a half hours. Bake thoroughly in moderate 
oven until top crust is dark brown — three-quarters to one hour. 

Reeva Hiison Levy. 



GINGER BREAD. 

"Yes, by St. Anne! And ginger shall be hot in the mouth too!" 

—Twelfth Night. 

One cup granulated sugar, two tablespoons molasses, four 
tablespoons melted butter, one even teaspoonful salt, one dessert 
spoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful mixed spices. Stir and 
rub well together then add one beaten egg and one cup of 
sour milk. Sift one even teaspoonful of soda and two cups of 
flour into the mixture and beat about two minutes. Put into 
pan about one and one-half inches deep and nine inches square. 
Sprinkle sugar on top and bake forty minutes in moderate oven. 

—M. W. 



OATMEAL BREAD. 

Two cups of raw oatmeal, three cups of boiling water, one- 
half cup of molasses, one-half cup of brown sugar, one piece 
butter size of a walnut, one yeast cake, one teaspoonful of salt. 
Stir the oatmeal while pouring on hot water, put in molasses and 
brown sugar while stirring, and set aside to cool. Dissolve 
yeast cake in lukewarm water and add to the meal when that is 
lukewarm. Add enough flour to thicken the dough the consist- 
ency or white bread. Bake in a very slow oven. 

— Mrs. R. Meshulamy. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 67 

STEAMED CORN BREAD. 

Two cups sweet milk, two cups sour milk, two cups corn 
meal, two cups flour, one cup syrup, one cup sugar, one tea- 
spoonful soda, a little salt. Steam three hours. — Miss Benjamin. 



68 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



TOAST, WAFERS AND MUFFINS. 

AMORITA FRENCH TOAST. 

Take one pint of milk to twelve slices of zwieback. Beat 
two eggs, sugar and cinnamon to taste, a pinch of salt, and one 
heaping tablespoonful of flour together well. Put slices of zwie- 
back on a platter, separately, and then pour batter over them, 
turning them frequently until well soaked, then fry in hot butter 
and fat, more butter preferred, to a golden brown on both sides. 
Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon mixed, on top of each slice, and 
serve hot, with any kind of jam or jelly. May be eaten also with 
blueberry or apple sauce, or plain. If bread is used, grate a 
little lemon peel in the batter. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



ROSETTE WAFERS. 

Two eggs, one teaspoonful sugar, one-fourth of a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one cupful of milk, and one cupful of flour, (a little 
more if necessary). Beat eggs slightly with sugar and salt; then 
add milk and flour, and beat until smooth. This amount will 
make forty wafers, which can only be made with the Rosette 
Irons, and for further information, see booklet, "How to Make 
Dainty Rosette Wafers," which comes with same. 



CORN MUFFINS. 

Mix two cupfuls of Indian meal, one cupful of flour, to 
which has been added two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
three-fourths of a cupful of sugar, one heaping tablespoonful of 
melted butter, one cupful of milk and one egg thoroughly to- 
gether. Bake in mufiin pans. — Mrs. A. G. Daniels. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 69 



PIES. 

"Let good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both!" — Shakespeare. 
RICH PIE CRUST. 
Three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of fat or butter, one-fourth 
teaspoonful of baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one cupful of cold water, and salt to taste. Work all well 
together with a knife, and use more flour if necessary. Place 
in ice chest one-half an hour before rolling out. Roll out very 
thin, and bake a rich brown. — Mrs. N. E. R. 



MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

"Ye waves of ocean, spare the bark; 
Ye tempest of the sky — 
From distant realms she comes to bring 
The sugar for my pie." — Southey. 

Two cups cranberries cut in halves, one cup raisins cut in 
halves, one measuring cup (scant) sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
vanilla extract, one tablespoon ful of flour (to be mixed with 
sugar dry), one-half cup boiling water. Bake between two 
crusts of rich paste. This makes a large, very full pie. Unex- 
celled! — Mrs. Gustave Isaacs. 



LEMON PIE. 

"The flour, the sugar and the fruit, 
Commingled well, how well they suit." — Southey. 

Make a rich puflf paste, roll thin and fit into a deep porcelain 
pie dish; prick the crust before putting into the oven. Bake a 



Mr.H.LGIDEON 
In Lectnre-Recitai 

The Story of Worship Music 

The Modem French Opera 
The Jew as a Character in Music 
Address: H. L. GIDEON 

40 SPRING ST., CAMBRIDGE 

George A. Blanchard 

Pictures, Frames, Water Colors 

Mats and Passepartouts 

180 Tremont St. Boston 

Refers to Mrs. I. Phillips 

Compliments of 

a Jfrienb 



QUINN- FLORIST 

FLOWERS and DECORATIONS 
Furnished for all Occasions 

95 Harvard St. 1338 Beacon St. 

BROOKLINE 

Telephones, Brookline 3000—3001 

Paul G. Coblenzer 

620-622 Shawmut Ave. 
Boston, Mass. 



Miss C. M. Gartner ' 

INSTRUCTION GIVEN 
IN GERMAN 

8 Temple St., Cambridge. Mass. i 

SCHOENflOF BOOK CO. 
Books in Foreign Languages ' 

128a TREMONT STREET 
BOSTON 

Harry L. Buitekan 



STUDIO 
126 MASS. AVE., 



BOSTON 



Just send your name and address for a 
copy of tbe best of Cooking Magazines 



Address 



The Boston 
Cooking School Magazine 



BOSTON. MASS. 



fl. J. OLMSTEAD, D. 0. 

OSTEOPATHIC PHYSICIAN 

BOSTON 
715-716 Colonial Building. 100 Boylston St. 

Telephone, Oxford 93 
Hours 9 to 5 

WINCHESTER 
31 Church Street 

Telephone by Appointment 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 71 

pale yellow and fill with the following filling, which must be pre- 
pared in a double boiler: Yolks of six eggs, beaten very light, 
with one and one-half cups of granulated sugar, the grated rind 
of one and juice of two lemons; place mixture in double boiler, 
stir constantly and slowly, boil until quite thick, then add the 
well beaten whites of the eggs. Mix carefully, fill pie shell and 
replace in the oven and brown to a golden brown color. — 

Mrs. A. S. Lauferty. 



APPLE-LEMON PIE. 

"There's an art in pies : 
In raising crust as well as galleries." — Leigh Hunt. 

Two large apples pared and stewed, then sifted through a 
large hole strainer. One lemon rind and juice, one cup of sugar 
and a pinch of salt, one soda cracker, rolled very fine, four eggs, 
yolks well beaten; all the above mixed together, then add half 
the whites which have been beaten stiflF, keeping other half for 
meringue, after it is baked. Make a nice pie crust, line a deep 
pie plate, perforate with a fork, then bake light brown. Fill with 
the above and bake ; then add the other whites, which have been 
mixed with one-fourth cup of powdered sugar and a little vanilla 
essence. Arrange on pie when cool. — Mrs. E. S. Goulston, Sr. 



STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Bake a rich pie crust and while the crust is baking beat up 
three eggs, the whites to a stiff froth and the yolks with one 
cup of sugar; then mix the two together and beat thoroughly. 
Add three-fourths, or an entire box of strawberries. Place the 
whole in the hot crust and bake a golden brown. 

— Hennie F. Liebman. 



72 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

FROSTED RHUBARB PIE. 

Peel the rhubarb and chop (not too fine) ; allow one and one- 
fourth cupfuls of sugar mixed with two level tablespoonfuls of 
flour to two cupfuls of rhubarb. Add the beaten yolks of two 
tggs and two teaspoonfuls of melted butter. Fill a paste-lined 
pie plate with mixture and bake. Cool and cover with a 
meringue. 

Meringue. 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Brown in a slow oven. 

— Miss Fannie Gutman. 



LEMON PIE. 



To make the cream use the yolks of eight eggs beaten lightly, 
into which put one teaspoonful of cornstarch, dissolved in one- 
half a cupful of water. The juice of two lemons and one-half 
a cupful of water boiled; add this to the above. Put into a 
steamer and add one-half a cupful of sugar (or more to taste) ; 
boil until it thickens to a consistency of a custard; set aside to 
cool. Spread on a sponge leaf. Beat the whites of the eight 
eggs to a stiff froth, slowly adding two tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar. Put it on the custard a la Bunker Hill style and 
place in oven to brown. — "Grandma" Fishel. 



PRUNE PIE. 



Line a pie plate with rich crust; use stewed prunes, remov- 
ing the stones, and place prunes in plate close together. Bake 
in hot oven. When cold cover with whipped cream and sprinkle 
with chopped nuts and bits of cherries, or solid jelly. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK, 73 

NEW LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 

Line a pie plate with paste and bake. Turn on a flat plate 
to cool. Make the filling of the following: One cupful sugar, 
three even tablespoonfuls of flour, one lemon (rind and juice), 
three eggs (yolks), one cupful of cold water ; salt to taste. Whip 
yolks until light, add cold water, then flour, sugar, lemon juice 
and grated rind, and salt, stirring until mixture is perfectly 
smooth. Place in a double boiler, and cook until it thickens. 
Cool and pour into paste shell. Make a meringue as follows : 
Three eggs (whites), seven and one-half tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, one-half teaspoonful of lemon juice or extract. Whip 
the whites until dry. Measure the sugar by the even spoonful 
and gradually add it, whipping constantly until four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar have been used. Do not add more than one-fourth 
of a spoonful of sugar at a time without thoroughly beating it in. 
The remaining three and one-half spoonfuls may be added to- 
gether and quickly folded in. Add the flavoring and turn the 
mixture on top of the pie, heaping it in a mound at the center. 
Bake in a slow oven for eight or ten minutes. 

—{Mrs. 0. S.), Tillie M. Judah. 



74 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



PUDDINGS. 

"It almost makes me wish I vow, 
To have two stomachs like a cow." — Hood, (The Turtles). 

DATE PUDDING. 

"They call for dates and quinces in the pantry." — Romeo and Juliet. 

One cup chopped dates, one cup chopped walnuts, three 
eggs separated, one cup powdered sugar. Beat whites stiff, mix 
sugar and yolks; add dates and nuts also whites of eggs; to 
this add three tablespoonfuls flour and one teaspoonful baking 
powder. Pour in tin and bake for one-half hour. 

— Mrs. A. Weiscopf. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

One pound carrots, one-half pound suet (chopped), six table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one-half pound sugar, three-fourths pound 
currants, one nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of ground cloves. 
Boil the carrots and strain through a colander, mix all together 
and steam three and a half hours. 

Sauce. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, flavor with wine or brandy. 
Beat whites and yolks thoroughly and separately. Put half the 
sugar in the yolks, the other half in the whites, beat lightly. Mix, 
add the flavoring. — Mrs. R. Kaufman, (N. Y. C.) 



CREAM RICE PUDDING. 

Use one-third of a cup of rice, one quart cold milk, three- 
fourths of a cup of sugar, one-half teaspoonful vanilla, generous 
pinch of salt. Pour enough boiling water over the rice to cover 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK, 75 

thoroughly ; put aside to soak in a bowl one hour. When soaked, 
pour off every bit of water, and add one quart cold milk ; stir in 
the sugar, salt and vanilla. Mix well and pour in a pudding 
dish. Drop bits of fresh butter all over the top. Bake in a 
moderate oven about three-quarters to one hour. — Mrs. I: Phillips. 



APPLE CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Slice two quarts of apples fine ; mix with one cup of sugar, 
cinnamon to taste, one-half cup currants. Put this in a buttered 
pudding dish, add one cup of water ; put in oven until soft. Take 
it out and while it cools, prepare a custard of one-eighth pound 
grated chocolate, one cup sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, two 
yolks of eggs, whites beaten to a froth. Pour over the apples 
and bake about fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold 
with whipped cream. — Aimee Goulston Sturm, (Chicago.) 



NUT PUDDING. 



One cupful sweet milk, one cupful chopped suet, one cupful 
seeded raisins, one cupful molasses, one pound walnut meats 
(chopped fine), one-fourth pound figs (chopped fine), one nut- 
meg (grated), one teaspoonful soda, two and one-half cupfuls 
flour, salt to taste. Mix thoroughly and steam three hours. 

Sauce. 

One-half cupful butter beaten until waxy ; one-half cupful pow- 
dered sugar beaten into butter; one-fourth cupful cream, one 
tablespoonful of vanilla. Beat all together in a bowl. Set the 
bowl in hot water. Stir until creamy and smooth. Very nice. 

— Mrs. George Brown, Bradford, Vt. 



76 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

MACAROON PUDDING. 

Yolks of three eggs beaten with one cup of sugar; pinch of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. Put in sauce pan with one 
pint of milk. Then add two teaspoonfuls of gelatine dissolved 
in water. Mix well and stir with silver spoon until mixture 
reaches boiling point. Remove from fire and add beaten whites 
with one wine glassful of brandy and six crushed macaroons. 
Line mold with macaroons, pour in mixture and set aside to 
harden. — Miss Fannie Gutman. 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cupful of 
sugar, four eggs (yolks), rind of one lemon (grated), butter 
size of Qgg. Mix thoroughly, bake until done. Whip the whites 
of the eggs to a stiflf froth, adding slowly one teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar. Remove pudding from oven, spread top with 
favorite jelly (raspberry preferred). Pour whites on top of 
jelly; return to oven and bake light brown. To be eaten cold. 
Nice served with cream. — E. H. M. 



APPLE PUDDING. 

One-fourth cupful butter, two cupfuls flour, one-half cupful 
sugar, two and one-half level teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
egg well beaten, one cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful salt, two 
good-sized apples sliced. Cream the butter and sugar, add beaten 
egg. Sift together flour, salt and baking powder and add alter- 
nately with milk to butter and sugar, adding the apples last. 
Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of water. Boil until it 
strings. When cold add vanilla to taste. Tried and true ? Yes ! 
— Florence Warren Adler. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 77 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

"In fumes of burning chocolate shall glow 
And tremble at the sea that froths below." — Pope. 

Put one pint of milk in a double boiler, let it get warm. 
Take the yolks of three eggs and beat well with one cupful of 
granulated sugar; dissolve two squares and a half of Baker's 
unsweetened chocolate; add sugar, eggs, and chocolate to milk 
and allow it to cook slowly. One cupful of flour made into a 
paste with milk; add to the other ingredients, stirring constantly 
to prevent it getting lumpy. Cook until thick. Add vanilla fla- 
voring. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and add to the chocolate 
(when cool). Bake in oven about one-half hour. Serve with 
whipped cream. — Mrs. George Moses. 



STEAMED PUDDING. 

One cupful flour, one cupful raisins, one cupful rye flour, 
one teaspoonful soda, one cupful milk, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cupful molasses, one-half teaspoonful cassia, one teaspoonful 
allspice, steam three hours. 

Sauce. 

Beat yolks of two eggs and one cupful sugar and add beaten 
whites ; flavor to taste. — Mrs. Ida Cohen. 



STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Three tablespoonfuls butter rubbed with eight tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, yolks four eggs, one cupful grated chocolate, one- 
fourth pound almonds, whites of eggs beaten to a snow. Steam. 

Sauce. 

Yolks of three eggs, one teaspoonful flour, two teaspoon fuls 
sugar, one pint of milk, beaten in a dish on stove until thick; 
one teaspoonful vanilla. — Mrs. Ida Cohen. 



78 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Six baked potatoes, one cupful sugar, six eggs, one glassful 
wine, one tablespoonful fat, cinnamon and salt to taste. Mash 
the baked potatoes, separate the eggs, mix the sugar with the 
yolks, add the cinnamon and wine, work in the fat; mix thor- 
oughly and add to the mashed potatoes, putting in the whites 
(beaten to a stiff froth) last. — Mrs. R. Sick. 



SCRAP PUDDING. 

Use stale bread, pieces of any ginger bread, corn cake, coffee 
cake left from last Kaffe Klatch, cover with milk and let stand 
an hour. Drain ; add to the milk one teaspoonful each of spices, 
one cupful of sugar, one cupful raisins, a piece of dried lemon 
peel, three eggs, a good lump of butter. Mix all together and 
bake from two to three hours in a well buttered dish.- 

Fannie R. Harris. 



OMELETTE PUDDING. 

Four eggs, yolks well beaten, with one scant tablespoonful 
of flour; add one pint of milk and pinch of salt. Put in baker 
and bake thirty minutes. 

Caramel Sauce. 

One cupful brown sugar, one-half cupful granulated sugar, 
one tablespoonful of water. Put on to boil, then add butter the 
size of an egg; just before removing from the fire, add one-half 
cupful of cream. When done beat until cool. 

— Aimee Goulston Sturm. (Chicago.) 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 79 

"CUCKOO PUDDING." 

"Sweetner of life and solder of society." — Blair. 

Butter pan well, peel and core apples enough to fill bottom of 
the pan. Fill apples with sugar, cinnamon, raisins and almonds. 
Put in the oven until half done. While apples are baking fix a 
sponge batter as follows : Four eggs ( yolks ) and one cupful 
sugar beaten well, one cupful flour, one teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat whites to a snow and mix. 
Take apples from oven, pour the batter over, return to the oven 
and bake until golden brown. When cold serve with whipped 
cream. — Mrs. Philip Brown. 



BROWN BETTY WITH AMBROSIA SAUCE. 

"Sure, these are modern, very modern treats, 
For I understand 'em not." — Beaumont and Fletcher. 

Stale bread well buttered, (pieces of toast may also be used). 
Break into fine pieces, put into a well buttered pan ; sprinkle gen- 
erously with sugar and cinnamon. Put on a layer of apples, 
sprinkle these generously with sugar and cinnamon, adding flecks 
of butter and a few raisins. Continue to alternate until pan is 
full. Add two cupfuls of cold water in which the yolks of two 
eggs have been thoroughly beaten. Bake in hot oven until dark 
brown. Serve warm or cold with following sauce : 

Ambrosia Sauce. 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth with one-half a 
cupful of granulated sugar; one medium-sized apple grated into 
the froth. Beat well and flavor with one-half a teaspoonful of 
vanilla or orange and lemon juice. — Reeva Huson Levy. 



Felix Kornfeld 

Importer and Manufacturer of 

Feathers, Flowers and 
Novelties 

65 Sximmer Street 
Boston, Mass. 

Telephone, Oxford 1222 

Telephone Connection 

A. SHUNK 



•♦ Cuetom G;a(lor 



1333 BEACON STREET 
Coolidge Comer BROOKUNE 



Complimfots of 



So Ho L. Cms' 



Established 1858 

Ibiob (3rabe jfurs 

Edward Kakas 
& Sons . . . 

364 BOYLSTON STREET 
BOSTON, MASS. 



Le Basche 

372 BOYLSTON ST. 
BOSTON 



Thayer, McNeil & Hodgkins 

Boote anJ) Sboee 

47 Temple Place and 15 West Qt 
Boston, Mass. 

ANCHOR LAONDRY CO. 

102 FREEPORT ST. 
DORCHESTER. - MASS. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 8i 

COCOANUT RICE TRIFLE. 

"Trifles light as air." — Othello. 

Wash thoroughly three-fourths of a cupful of rice. Cook 
ten minutes in rapidly boiling salted water. Strain and return 
to double boiler; add two cupfuls of milk and a saltspoonful of 
salt and boil until soft, then beat until smooth. Add one cupful 
of shredded cocoanut, which has been soaked for two hours in 
one-half a cupful of milk and one-half a cupful of sugar. Cook 
one-half hour more, then add teaspoonful of vanilla. Serve cold 
with any fruit sauce. Crushed fruit is also very nice. — 

Eva van Dam. 



GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Two cupfuls graham flour, one cupful molasses, one egg, 
one spoonful each, cinnamon, mace, allspice, a shake of nutmeg, 
one-half cupful of melted butter, one cupful of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus (dissolved). Place in a well-greased mold. 
Steam three hours steadily. — Fannie R. Harris. 



COLD CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Dissolve one-half pound grated chocolate in one cup of milk 
and stir in saucepan on stove until smooth and thick. Beat yolks 
of six eggs with one cup of sugar, until stiff froth and add 
chocolate. Dissolve one-third box of gelatine on stove in a little 
cold water. Beat six whites to froth and add to eggs and 
chocolate, then stir into gelatine. Mix all thoroughly and flavor 
with vanilla, put in mold or parfait glasses and set in ice box 
until ready to serve. Decorate with whipped cream. This 
amount is for large family. For smaller use one-half of all in- 
gredients. — Hennie F. Liehman. 



82 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

ENGLISH SUET PUDDING. 

"They brought him a pudding of mighty size 
To cheer his heart, and charm his eyes." — Praed. 

One pound raisins, one pound currants, one-half pound 
citron, one-fourth pound lemon peel, one-fourth pound orange 
peel, one-half a nutmeg grated, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, 
two cupfuls sugar, one pound chopped suet, eight eggs. Flour 
suflfcient to make a stiff batter. Mix thoroughly. Place in 
floured bag, leaving plenty of room for swelling. Boil constantly 
five hours. Place a plate in bottom of kettle to prevent sticking. 
This makes a very large pudding, which can be reduced by 
using one-half the receipt. 

Westminster Sauce for English Suet Pudding. 

One-half pound of butter, two heaping cupfuls of sugar, 
four eggs, four lemons, (juice of). Cream butter and sugar, 
reserving one cupful of sugar dissolved in juice of lemon. Mix 
all thoroughly, adding well beaten eggs and one-half of a grated 
nutmeg. Serve over pudding. — Mrs. Marion Huson. 

Decoration for Pudding. 

Place the pudding on a very large round platter (or silver 
tray). If it is to be used for Christmas, holly is most effective, 
placing a large border about the pudding and a sprig full of 
berries on top. Narcissus lend themselves to a very artistic 
effect for early spring, using Jonquils to make a pronounced 
yellow and white study. In using this combination cut a good 
core from the pudding and put a few of the flowers in center, 
encircling the dish with alternate Narcissus and Jonquils. — 
R. H. L. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 83 

STRAWBERRY MACAROON PUDDING. 

One box strawberries, washed; spread on platter, and re- 
serve a few large ones for decoration; sugar well, and place a 
layer of macaroons over the berries. Then make a custard as 
follows: The yolks of three eggs beaten to a cream with about 
one and one-half cupfuls of sugar. Then add a large glassful 
of white wine, and put the mixture on to heat. Stir a heaping 
teaspoonful cornstarch smooth in a little cold water, and add to 
the egg mixture, and stir constantly until it thickens; then re- 
move from the fire, and when cool, pour over strawberries and 
macaroons. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten 
to taste, and use as a garnish with strawberries, (reserved) on 
top, here and there. Place in ice-chest until ready to serve. — 

Mrs. Louis Hyneman. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One brick loaf of baker's bread grated, ten eggs well beaten 
in one-half pound sugar, one pound suet chopped fine, one cup 
molasses, two pounds stoned raisins, one pound currants, two 
ounces citron, one teaspoonful ground cloves, one teaspoonful 
ground cinnamon, one teaspoonful ground nutmeg, one glass of 
brandy, one glass of wine. Boil in mold six hours. Put cloth 
around mold tightly to prevent water soaking in. Chop suet 
fine and mix with a little flour to prevent sticking. Add a speck 
of soda to counteract molasses. This amount fills two melon 
molds, two-quart size. — Bessie Hurley. 

MussELAiNE Sauce for Plum Pudding. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs until light; add gradually one 
cup powdered sugar and two tablespoon fuls brandy. Cook over 
range five minutes, stirring constantly. Set in pan of ice water 
and beat mixture until cold ; then add one cup heavy cream beaten 
stiff, one teaspoonful vanilla and a few grains salt. — 

Bessie Hurley. 



84 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



CAKES. 

"Retain their sweetness after they have lost their beauty." — Hannah Moore. 

"Peace hath its triumphs greater far 
Than martial echoes wake. 
Where lives the man who leads a host 
Can make a decent cake?" 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

"A pint's a pound the world around!" 

Sixty drops of any thin liquid, one drachm or one teaspoon- 
ful; two teaspoonfuls, one dessert spoonful; four teaspoonfuls, 
one tablespoonful ; eight tablespoonfuls, one ounce; four gills, 
one ounce; two cupfuls, one pint; four cupfuls of flour, one 
pound; two cupfuls of butter, one pound; two cupfuls of gran- 
ulated sugar, one pound; two and one-half cupfuls of powdered 
sugar, one pound ; one dozen eggs should weigh one and one-half 
pounds. 

Table of Proportions. 

One teaspoonful of soda to a cupful of molasses; one tea- 
spoonful of soda to two cupfuls of sour milk ; three teaspoonfuls 
of soda to one quart of flour; one-half cupful of yeast, or one- 
fourth cake compressed yeast, to one pint of liquid ; one teaspoon- 
ful of flavoring to one loaf plain cake; one teaspoonful of salt 
to two quarts of flour; one teaspoonful of salt to one quart of 
soup ; one scant cupful of liquid to two cupfuls of flour for bread, 
mufflns or batters ; one quart of water to each pound of meat and 
bone for soups. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 85 

Time-table for Baking. 

Bread, brick-shaped loaf 50 to 60 minutes 

Biscuits 10 to 20 minutes 

Cake 45 to 60 minutes 

Cookies 10 to 15 minutes 

Ginger bread 20 to 30 minutes 

Graham gems 30 minutes 

Bread, rice, or tapioca pudding 1 hour 

Rolls 10 to 15 minutes 

Time-table for Baking Certain Cakes. 

Sponge cake 3-4 of an hour 

Round cake 1 hour 

Fruit cake 3 or 4 hours, depending upon size 

Cup cakes 1 full hour 

Use two teaspoonfuls of baking powder to one quart of 
flour. For cakes that are large and rich use spring forms. 



SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, Judges 5 : 25 ; 3 and one-half cups of 
flour, 1 Kings 4 : 22 ; three cups sugar, Jeremiah 6 : 20 ; two cups 
raisins, 1 Samuel 30: 12; two cups figs, 1 Samuel 30: 12; one 
cup water, Genesis 24: 17; one cup almonds. Genesis 43: 11; 
six eggs, Isaiah 10: 14; one tablespoonful honey, Exodus 16: 21 ; 
a pinch of salt, Leviticus 16: 13; spices to taste, 1 Kings 10: 10; 
two tablespoonfuls baking powder, 1 Cor. 5 : 56. Follow Solo- 
mon's advice for making good boys and you will have a good 
cake. Proverbs 23 : 14. Proceed by the ordinary rules for cake 
making, putting in nuts last. The raisins should be seeded, the 
figs chopped and the almonds blanched and sliced, all these well 
floured to prevent sinking. Bake in square loaf. 

— Mrs. J. S. Heiderman. 



86 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

"Oh dainty of dainties." — Marlow. 

Four eggs beaten together ; two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful 
of butter beaten to a cream ; one cupful sweet milk, two and one- 
half cupfuls flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, vanilla fla- 
voring to taste. Bake in layers. 

Filling. 
One cup granulated sugar, one cup water, boiled together 
until thick; butter size of an tgg, one-half pound marshmallows 
(melted), one cup chopped nuts, the white of one tgg beaten to 
a stiff froth. Mix all into the syrup, beat thoroughly and spread 
while warm. — Florence Levy. (Chicago, 111.) 



A GOOD AND ECONOMICAL SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of sugar, the grated rind of 
a whole and the juice of half a lemon, eight tablespoonfuls of 
flour, sifted five times, one level teaspoonful of baking powder, 
three and one-half tablespoonfuls of cold water, yolks of eggs 
and sugar to be beaten to a light yellow; add grated rind and 
juice of lemon, then the water, next the sifted flour and baking 
powder and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a 
very moderate oven about forty minutes. A baking tin with tube 
in the middle gives the best results. — Sarah van Noorden. 



PLAIN SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs beaten separately, one and one-half cups gran- 
ulated sugar, one-half cup cold water, two cups flour sifted twice, 
juice and rind of one lemon, one-half teaspoon saleratus and one 
teaspoon cream of tartar, (scant). Bake from twenty to thirty 
minutes. — Fannie R. Harris. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 87 

CREAM ROLL, 

Two eggs, weight of two eggs in powdered sugar and 
weight of two eggs (not quite) in flour. Bake on the reverse 
side of the pan ; take off while hot and roll. Fill with whipped 
cream. — Ida Greenhaum. 



JELLY ROLL. 

Three eggs (separated), one cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
sweet milk ; beat yolks and sugar thoroughly, add beaten whites. 
Mix one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder with one cup of 
flour ; add to the other ingredients. Flavor with lemon and bake 
immediately in moderate oven. While hot remove from pan and 
lay on a cloth wet with cold water. Spread with jelly and roll 
quickly. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. — M. G. W. 



NUT CAKE. 

One-half pound of butter and one pound of sugar beaten to 
a cream ; add six eggs, beat all until very light, and one and one- 
half cupfuls of lukewarm milk. Stir in three to three and one- 
half cupfuls of flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla and one-half pound of grated walnuts. 
Bake in moderate oven for about one hour. — Maizie C. Goulston. 



FUDGE CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup butter creamed with one cup sugar, three 
eggs (beaten separately), one cup milk, one-half cup chopped 
walnuts (coarse), two and one-half cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, four squares bitter chocolate, melted over steam 
with a little milk, vanilla flavor. Bake forty-five minutes. Can 
be baked in loaf or layer. — Fannie R. Harris. 



88 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

One-fourth cup butter, one-half cup milk, one cup sugar, 
one and one-fourth cups flour, one tgg (beaten), one heaping 
teaspoon baking powder, flavoring, pinch of salt. This rule 
makes a small loaf ; or two layers. If a nut cake is wanted add 
one-half cupful of chopped walnuts ; and use a boiled frosting. 
Boil one cup granulated sugar, one-fourth cup boiling water and 
pinch of cream of tartar until it threads when dropped from a 
spoon ; pour over the beaten white of an o^gg, flavor with vanilla 
and beat until thick enough to spread. — M. G. M. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

With Double Frosting. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two squares melted 
chocolate, three whites of eggs (beaten), one-half cup milk, one 
and one-fourth cups flour, one heaping teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, pinch of salt. 

Frosting — (1st Part). 

One tablespoonful melted butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one-half cup milk, a pinch of cream of tartar. Mix thor- 
oughly and boil thirteen minutes ; flavor with vanilla and beat 
until thick enough to spread. 

Frosting — (2nd Part). 

Melt one and one-half squares chocolate, two teaspoonfuls 
sugar with five teaspoonfuls of boiling water, until right con- 
sistency to spread. Put over the white frosting after it has 
cooled. — M. G. M. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 89 

DATE CAKE. 

Cream one cupful of sugar with one-half a cupful of butter ; 
and the beaten yolks of two eggs, two cupfuls of flour sifted with 
three level teaspoonfuls of baking powder, (reserve enough to 
flour the fruit) ; add one-third of a cupful of milk, slowly beating 
all the time, then the stiflly beaten whites of two eggs and last 
one pound of dates stoned and cut in pieces and rolled in the 
flour. Beat well. Bake in a moderate oven three-quarters of 
an hour in a deep pan. — Aunt Sara. 



WALNUT CAKE. 

"The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good." 

— Measure for Measure. 

Do Try It. Very Good. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup milk, two cups 
flour, one-half cup chopped walnut meats, two eggs, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla. Cream the butter 
and sugar together ; you need not separate the eggs, but add to 
butter and sugar, beating until very light. Next add the milk 
and flour alternately, beating all the time. Keep out a Httle flour 
for the baking powder; next add the walnut meats. Bake in 
moderate oven about three-fourths of an hour. 

— Frances van Baalen. 



ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of three eggs, three and one-half cups powdered 
sugar, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
lemon. Beat whites of eggs and sugar until thick and creamy; 
add flour well sifted with powder and flavor last. Bake in three 
greased angel cake tins, in moderate oven. — Mrs. W. Shapiro. 



90 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

Four eggs, two cups granulated sugar, two cups sifted flour, 
two level teaspoons baking powder, one cup very hot water. Beat 
yolks and whites together lightly; add sugar, one cup of flour, 
little at a time, baking powder in other cup, last hot water, little 
by little, and little vanilla. Bake twenty-five minutes. An hour 
and a half before serving, cut top off cake. Take one can shred- 
ded pineapple and pour over, pricking cake with fork to let fruit 
sink into cake thoroughly. Serve with whipped cream over top. 

— Aimee Goulst on Sturm. (Chicago.) 



APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup raisins, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one teaspoon nutmeg, one-half teaspoon cloves, 
one cup apple sauce, one teaspoon of saleratus in little hot water, 
one and three-fourth cups of flour. — Mrs. Milton M. Jacobs. 



PLAIN CAKE. 

One-half cup butter (large cup), press all the water out 
of the butter; two cups sugar sifted, one cup milk, three eggs 
(do not separate eggs), two level teaspoons baking powder, three 
cups flour sifted three times. Flavor with nutmeg, add pinch 
salt. Sprinkle sugar on top before baking. — Mrs. J. Land. 



DATE CAKE. 

Chop seven ounces of dates, grind seven ounces of almonds 
into which mix two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat yolks 
of five eggs light and add seven ounces of granulated sugar ; add 
dates and almonds, then the whites of five eggs beaten stiff. 
Butter pan. No flour used. — Mrs. J. Simons, (Chicago). 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK, 91 

ALMOND TORTE. 

Separate nine eggs, beat yolks with a good-sized cup of 
granulated sugar until very light; grind half pound almonds, 
beat the whites stiff, then add into the beaten eggs and sugar 
alternately a teaspoonful of whites and teaspoonful of almonds, 
stirring constantly. Butter tin and bake in slow oven one hour. 
No flour used. — Mrs. J. Simons, (Chicago). 



CHOCOLATE FRUIT CAKE. 

Six eggs, one cupful of milk, one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful pulverized sugar, one cupful dark brown sugar, two cupfuls 
flour, one-half pound of grated chocolate (unsweetened), one cup- 
ful seeded raisins, one cupful currants, one-eighth pound citron, 
one teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful allspice, one teaspoonful 
cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat sugar and 
butter until light, add yolks of eggs; flour, fruit. After all is 
mixed, add whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 

—Mrs. I. Phillips. 



POUND CAKE. 

One and two-third cups sugar creamed with one cup butter, 
five eggs broken in, one at a time, two cups flour, one-half cordial 
glass brandy, one-half teaspoonful mace, one-half lemon rind 
grated. Put all together, adding flour last; bake forty-five 
minutes. 

Frosting. 

One cup granulated sugar, one-half cup boiling water, boil 
five minutes ; add white of one e.gg beaten, flavor with rose. — 

Fannie R. Harris. 



92 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

One-fourth pound butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one- 
half cup milk, three eggs, one and one-half cups flour, one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Mix butter and sugar, add milk and yolks of three eggs, add 
flavor, then mix in the flour and powder, beaten whites last. Mix 
part of dough with three tablespoonfuls of cocoa and put in pan 
on the white dough. Bake in moderate oven. — Mrs. I. Sick. 



DEVIL CAKE. 

Boil one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, two squares Baker's 
chocolate, set aside to cool. Cream one cup brown sugar, one- 
half cup butter, add two eggs well beaten, one-half cup milk, one 
teaspoonful baking soda dissolved in a little hot water, two cups 
of flour; add the boiled mixture to this. Bake in layers or a 
large flat tin. 

Icing. 

One tablespoonful butter beaten to a cream, add confec- 
tioner's sugar until thick enough to spread, flavor with vanilla, 
chopped nuts added if so desired. 

— Mrs. C. W. Greene. (Chicago.) 



FIG LAYER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one-half cup water, 
two cups flour, one t^gg, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake 
in two layers. 

Filling. 

Eight large figs stewed in a little water until soft enough to 
mash, add one-half cup of sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Icing. 

One-half cup sugar and a little water ; boil until it hairs, then 
turn over the beaten white of one ^gg, add some of the figs and 
beat until cold. Flavor with vanilla. — Miss Fannie Gutman. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK, 93 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 

One pint flour, one-fourth cup butter, one and one-half tea- 
spoons salt, one tgg (well beaten), one-half teaspoon saleratus. 
one scant cup milk, one teaspoon cream of tartar, four apples. 
Sift flour, salt, saleratus and cream of tartar together, then rub 
in butter and tgg and mix with milk. Spread one-half inch 
thick in long pan. Pare apples, slice in small pieces and lay 
in rows on top. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake in 
quick oven one-half hour. A sauce of the yolk of Qgg, milk, 
sugar and vanilla poured over all will add to flavor. 

— Florence Warren Adler. 



NEVER FAIL GINGERBREAD. 

One-half cup sugar (granulated), one-half cup molasses, 
one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, two cups flour, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful ginger, two eggs, added last; 
beat well, bake in quick oven twenty minutes. Can add one-half 
cup seeded raisins to improve it. — Reeva Huson Levy. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Dissolve one tablespoonful of gelatine in half a cup of cold 
milk. Heat another one-half cupful of milk and add two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar and the dissolved gelatine. Allow 
to cool and add the whole to one-half pint of whipped cream. 
Flavor with vanilla and pour into a mold which has been lined 
with lady fingers. Set away in refrigerator to become chilled. 



94 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



COFFEE CAKES. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup granulated sugar or half powdered, one tablespoon- 
ful butter mixed to cream; add two eggs (yolks), one and three- 
fourth cups of flour, one heaping teaspoonful baking powder, 
sifted and added to the above with one cup of milk, little at a 
time; one teaspoonful almond flavoring, the stiffly beaten whites. 
This makes two small loaves. 

Crumbs for Top of Cake. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one-half teaspoonful butter, one teaspoonful milk mixed into 
small crumbs and strewn on cake before placing in oven ; cin- 
namon or chopped nuts are a great addition to the crumbs. — • 

Mrs. E. S. Goulston, Sr. 



BUND KUCHEN. 



Make a sponge of one yeast cake, one cup lukewarm milk, 
two cups of flour, pinch of salt, one teaspoonful sugar. Cover 
and let stand in warm place until light. Cream one cup of butter 
with one and one-fourth cups of sifted powdered sugar ; add five 
eggs, one at a time; with each tgg two tablespoonfuls of flour; 
then add grated rind of one lemon, one tablespoonful of brandy, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Combine the two mixtures thoroughly. 
Butter a bund form, sprinkle thickly with chopped almonds and 
granulated sugar, pour in the mixture and let it rise until very 
light. Bake about one hour. — Mrs. J. Bensemoil. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 95 

QUICK COFFEE CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup milk, pinch salt, one cup sugar, rind and 
juice one-half lemon, one cup butter, one-half teaspoonful baking 
powder, two cups flour. Beat eggs, sugar and butter to a 
cream ; add milk, salt and lemon ; then flour and baking powder. 
Some currants and citron or any fruit well floured can be added. 
Sprinkle chopped nuts, sugar and cinnamon over top before 
baking. — A Member. 



DUTCH KUGEL. 

Apples or pears, three cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one cup of suet, one and one-half cupfuls sugar, 
one-half cupful chopped nuts, one-fourth cupful finely sliced can- 
died citron, one teaspoonful salt, one handful of seeded raisins. 
It is best baked in an iron Scotch bowl. This is to be well lined 
with thick slices of the whole apple or pears. Put into a mix- 
ing bowl, the flour, salt, and sugar, into which rub the suet. 
Now moisten with enough water to make a soft dough, then add 
nuts, raisins and citron. Cover with thickly sliced fruit and bake 
three or four hours in a moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce. 
• — Sarah van Noorden. 



96 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



TORIES. 

SCHWARTZBROD TORTE. 

Ten eggs, separated, two cups of sugar beaten with yolks 
until light; add one-fourth pound of almonds, one-fourth pound 
citron, cut fine, one cup grated chocolate, one-half teaspoonful 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful allspice, one-half teaspoonful 
ground cloves, one tablespoonful brandy. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and add one cupful grated rye bread and mix all 
together and bake in a spring form in a moderate oven for an 
hour. — M. F. 



CHOCOLATE TORTE. 

Like Mother Used to Make. 

Two large cups of sweet chocolate, one cup ground crackers, 
one cup sweet almonds, ground, twenty eggs, separated, well 
beaten. Beat the yolks for half an hour with two cups of sugar ; 
add all kinds of spices, half a teaspoonful of each, one lemon 
and one wineglass of brandy. Bake for one hour in a medium 
hot oven. This makes two large loaves. — Fannie R. Harris. 



ALMOND TORTE. 



Four eggs, beaten separately, one cup powdered sugar, one- 
half cup cracker dust, one-half teaspoonful baking powder, one- 
half cup chopped almonds; add whites last. Bake in two layers 
and spread whipped cream between and on top. — M. G. W. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 97 

CHOCOLATE TORTE. 

Nine eggs, two cupfuls sugar, one-fourth chocolate, one cup- 
ful matzo meal and potato flour mixed, one teaspoonful ground 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful ground cloves. Beat yolks of eggs with 
sugar into a cream. Stir in the matzo meal, potato flour and spices. 
Dissolve the chocolate in a little boiling water and add to the 
other ingredients, then the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake 
in a moderate oven one hour. — Mrs. M. I. Bornstein. 



HAZELNUT TORTE. 

Beat together one and one-half cups granulated sugar with 
eight yolks of eggs; juice and rind of one lemon, one-half pound 
shelled hazelnuts, one-fourth pound blanched almonds, three 
crackers grated (Uneeda Biscuit) ; add beaten whites of eggs 
last. Grate nuts and crackers together. — Mrs. A. Weiscopf. 



KOENIGS TORTE. 



One pound butter, one pound flour, one pound sugar, ten 
^&gs, grated rind of one lemon, two ounces sweet almonds, two 
ounces bitter almonds or two teaspoonfuls of almond extract, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream the butter, add the 
lemon rind and almonds, the yolks; beat the whites to a stifif 
froth, and add alternately until everything is in, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, flour, stiffly beaten eggs. Bake in a moderate oven 
from one to one and a half hours. Do not stop beating the cake 
from the time you begin to put in the flour and sift flour and 
sugar into the other ingredients. — Friederike Salomon. 



93 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE TORTE. 

Very Easy. Very Nice. 
Yolks of four eggs, one-fourth pound Baker's bitter choco- 
late melted in a cup of milk, two cups granulated sugar, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder; add whites last, beaten stiffly with 
pinch salt. Bake in layers, put raspberry jam between. (N. 
B. — Have batter very thin as this ensures a light damp torte. — 

Aimee G. Sturm. (Chicago.) 



SAND TORTE. 



One-half pound cornstarch, one-half pound butter, one-half 
pound sugar, five eggs, one tablespoonful sherry, one teaspoonful 
baking powder, grated rind of half a lemon, two teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla. Cream the butter with the sugar, add the flavoring, the 
yolks, spoonful by spoonful, until all the cornstarch is used, then 
add the wine, lastly the whites of eggs beaten to stiflf froth. 
Bake one hour; moderate oven. — Friederike Salomon. 



WALNUT TORTE. 



Yolks of six eggs and a cup of granulated sugar well beaten, 
one-half cup chopped walnuts, rind and juice of one lemon, one- 
half cup of matzo flour or cracker meal; add beaten whites of 
six eggs. Bake in moderate oven about forty minutes. 

— Mrs. Jacob Nathan. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 99 



ICING FOR CAKE. 

WHITE ICING. 

The whites of two eggs, not beaten; add one tablespoonful 
of cold water, lemon or vanilla to taste, and enough confec- 
tioner's sugar to make a frosting stiff enough to spread on cake 
easily when cool, without running too freely. 



MARBLE ICING. 

Use white frosting as above ; and make a chocolate frosting 
by using one square piece of Baker's bitter chocolate cut in small 
pieces or grated, and add one tablespoonful of confectioner's 
sugar, and melt in small saucepan over boiling water. Then add 
one-half cupful of white frosting, and stir well. Spread cake 
with white frosting, smoothly, and as soon as possible, drop the 
chocolate frosting from a tablespoon into the white frosting, 
irregularly, to represent marble. 



LEMON ICING. 



Juice of a good-sized lemon, one tablespoonful cold water, 
and enough confectioner's sugar to make a stiff frosting that 
can be spread on cake easily, without being too thin. 

— Mrs. I. Phillips. 

GOLDEN ICING. 

Beat yolk of one o^gg with eight tablespoonfuls of confec- 
tioner's sugar. Add one tablespoonful of boiling water, and a 
teaspoon ful of vanilla extract. Spread over cake, and let harden 
before cutting. Pretty icing for a silver cake. 



lOO THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



MARSHMALLOW ICING. 

Whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; flavor and 
sweeten to taste. Grate one large tart apple after peeling, and 
add to the beaten whites and stir for one-half an hour or more, 
until the icing is very thick and white, and again as much as 
it was originally. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMEL FROSTING. 

Put one pint of brown sugar on to boil with one-half cupful 
of milk, one-half pound of sweet chocolate grated, and a small 
lump of butter. Boil until thick, stirring frequently. Flavor 
with vanilla, and spread over cake while warm. 



FIG FROSTING. 

Make a syrup of three cupfuls of granulated sugar and one 
cupful of cold water. Boil until it threads, and pour slowly onto 
the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, and when well mixed add 
six figs chopped in very fine pieces and stir well together and 
spread between two layers and on top of upper layer ot cake. 
Chopped dates or nuts may be substituted for the figs. 

— Mrs. I. Phillips. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. loi 

COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, two bars 
sweet chocolate, one-half teaspoon vanilla, one-half cup chopped 
English walnuts, a generous half cup of flour. Spread on flat 
tin, cut in squares; put half a walnut on top of each square. 
Bake in a moderate oven, about ten minutes. 

Mrs. A. S. Lauferty. 



LEBKUCHEN. 



Five whole eggs, two cups brown sugar, beaten well to- 
gether; three teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
cloves, one teaspoonful of allspice, rind of a lemon and little 
orange peel, one teaspoonful vanilla, one-fourth pound chopped 
almonds, one square of Baker's chocolate (grated). Beat this 
all well, and then add two cups of sifted flour, with two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Spread in buttered pans, having the in- 
gredients about half an inch thick. Bake in a moderate oven 
about fifteen minutes. Before taking out of pan spread icing 
on top and cut in squares. — Mrs. Jacob Nathan. 



ENGLISH COOKIES. 

Three-fourths pound of butter, one cup sugar, two and one- 
half cupfuls flour, one egg, one teaspoonful baking powder. Mix 
together ; roll out thin, cut into shapes with cookie forms ; spread 
chopped almonds on top. Bake until brown. — M. F. 



I02 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK, 

OAT MEAL COOKIES. 

One-half cup melted butter, one cup sugar, two eggs (well 
beaten), two cups oatmeal, rind of one and juice of one-half 
lemon, pinch of salt. — M. H. 



INDIVIDUAL PEACH TARTS. 

Line individual biscuit tins with rich pie crust. Fill with 
peaches and put a dot of butter on each, then bake. Add one 
cup of sugar to juice of peaches; boil until a syrup. Put a 
tablespoonful over each tart when cold. — J. F. 



PEANUT YUM YUMS. 

Whites of two eggs, one cup powdered sugar, one cup 
ground peanuts, one tablespoonful flour, pinch of salt. Drop on 
well-buttered and floured pan from teaspoon, about size of half 
dollar. Bake in moderate oven until light brown. 

—{Mrs. O. S.), Tillie M. Judah. 



PEANUT WAFERS. 

One-half cup flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, one- 
fourth teaspoonful salt, one-half cup chopped peanuts, two table- 
spoonfuls butter, one-fourth cup of sugar, one egg (beaten), 
two tablespoonfuls milk. Mix and sift dry ingredients; stir in 
the chopped peanuts. Cream the butter and sugar; mix thor- 
oughly. Add the well beaten egg and the milk. Drop from the 
tip of a teaspoon on a buttered pan, one inch apart. Put half of 
a peanut on the top of each. Bake in a moderate oven ten min- 
utes or until light brown. — Esther Z. Small. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 103 

FRENCH BUTTER COOKIES. 

All ingredients must be accurately measured. One pound 
flour, one-half pound butter, one-half pound dark brown sugar 
(not the darkest grade), one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoonful ground cloves. Mix all thoroughly in a bowl. 
Do not beat. Roll out not too thin, and cut out either with a 
cutter or the top of a glass. Bake in a moderate oven until a 
rich brown. Sometimes a little more sugar is needed as the 
degree of sweetness varies. — {Mrs. O. S.), Tillie M. Judah. 



CHOCOLATE BROWNIES. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup melted butter, two squares of 
chocolate (grated), one-half cup chopped walnuts, one-half cup 
flour, two eggs beaten lightly. Spread in tins, bake, cut in 
squares while hot. — Charlotte L. Nurenberg. 



ENGLISH BUTTER COOKIES. 

One pound butter, one pound dark brown sugar, three eggs, 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon. Add flour enough to roll. Roll 
thin. — Charlotte L. Nurenberg. 



PRESSBURGER STANGELU, OR ALMOND STICKS. 

Mix rapidly one-fourth pound of butter, one-fourth pound 
of flour, one-fourth pound of sugar, one-fourth pound of ground 
almonds, one-half teaspoon vanilla, yolks of two eggs. Work 
like pie crust, set on ice for couple of hours. Roll out thin and 
cut in strips two inches long, one inch wide. Put on well-but- 
tered pan. Bake in moderate oven. — Aimee Sturm. (Chicago.) 



I04 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

ALMOND COOKIES. 

One-half pound of butter, one-half pound of almonds 
(grated), yolks of four eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, 
juice of one lemon. Add flour enough to roll.— 

Charlotte L. Nurenberg. 

DUTCH BUTTER CAKES. 

One-half pound butter, two eggs, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one tablespoon sherry wine, a teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der for each cup of flour; use enough to roll. Roll thin, cut 
and bake in a hot oven. Rub over with yolk of an egg, before 
baking. — Beckie Rintals. 



WALNUT TAFFY STICKS. 

One cupful brown sugar, one cupful chopped walnuts, two 
eggs beaten together, one-third cupful flour. Spread in a hot 
buttered pan. Bake, and cut into strips while hot. A large 
roasting pan is the best. — R. B. 



ROCKS. 

One cupful butter, one cupful broken walnut meats, one 
and one-half cupfuls brown sugar, one cupful raisins, one-fourth 
cupful molasses, three eggs (beaten), two and one-half cupfuls 
flour, one teaspoonful saleratus, pinch of salt. Drop from spoon, 
and bake in moderate oven. — M. G. M. 



AUNT SUSAN'S GINGER COOKIES. 

One pint molasses, two teaspoonfuls soda, one-half cup but- 
ter, three teaspoonfuls ginger, flour enough to roll out hard. 
Let molasses heat. Put in butter and soda, and let it cool, then 
add ginger and flour. — Aunt Susan's Niece. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 105 

KISSES. 

One pound of dates cut in strips, one-fourth pound of 
almonds cut in strips. Beat the whites of three eggs very stiff, 
with nine tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, one teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Mix in almonds and dates and drop on brown paper. 
Bake in very slow oven till light brown. — Mrs. Milton M. Jacobs. 



DATE MACAROONS. 

One-half pound dates, one-half pound almonds chopped fine. 
Beat whites of four eggs, stir into it two cups granulated sugar, 
teaspoonful vanilla. Butter and flour the pan, drop in teaspoon- 
ful of batter far enough apart to allow spreading. Bake in 
slow oven. — Aimec G. Sturm. (Chicago.) 



TEGLACH. 

A Delicious Dainty. 



Two pounds honey (strained), one pound sugar, six eggs, 
one tablespoonful olive oil, pinch of ginger and pinch of salt. 
Flour enough for a thick batter or dough. Sift pastry flour into 
cake bowl, adding ginger and salt ; break eggs into flour, add oil. 
Mix ingredients by lightly folding and cutting. Knead and form 
into long round strips and cut into inch lengths. Insert raisins 
and the meat of walnuts into bits of the dough, forming into 
small balls between the palms. When the honey and sugar is 
boiling, plunge all the nuts into it and cover. Keep the honey 
briskly boiling about forty minutes. Watch carefully, stir oc- 
casionally to prevent scorching. They should be a dark golden 
brown and crisp. The honey may be kept indefinitely by adding 
a cup of cold water when taken from the fire. 

— Hinda Schwartz Cohen. 



io6 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

WINE COOKIES. 

One-fourth pound sweet almonds, one-fourth pound citron, 
one-fourth pound Baker's chocolate, one teaspoonful cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful allspice, one and three- 
fourth cups sugar, six eggs, two even cups 'of flour, two even 
spoonfuls baking powder. Grind the almonds, citron and choco- 
late in meat grinder; then add the spices. Separate eggs and 
beat well; add sugar, flour and baking powder and then fruit. 
Form by dropping half a teaspoonful of the mixture in a plate 
of sugar; roll into a little ball in the palm of the hand. Bake 
in buttered pans, an inch apart. — Mrs. N. E. Pelonsky. 



PUFF BALLS. 

With Maple Syrup. 



Two eggs (separated), one cupful milk, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, one-half cupful flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. 
Beat yolks and milk, add sugar, flour and baking powder. Beat 
whites to a stiff froth and blend into batter. Have fat hot; put 
in the wire drainer. Drop a teaspoonful of batter at a time (just 
stiff enough to form soft ball). Should be a delicate brown. 
Serve with hot maple syrup. — Mrs. Harry Salt, (Chicago). 



MYSTERIES. 

One cupful of Quaker Oats, not cooked, one cupful of sugar, 
one tgg, one teaspoonful baking powder mixed with oats, one- 
half cupful melted butter, and one tablespoonful vanilla. Beat 
the egg light, and add the other ingredients in the following 
order: — sugar, oats, and baking powder, vanilla and melted but- 
ter. Drop from a teaspoon onto cookie tins, which should be 
buttered, and sprinkled with flour. When they are baked, let 
cool a minute before removing. — Mrs. Louis Hyneman. 




Was Hood's Milk on your 
table this morning? 

Hood's Milk, Cream and Butter are 
supplied fresh every morning in more 
than 100,000 homes, hotels and res- 
taurants of Greater Boston. During 
sixty-three years of continuous ser- 
vice, not a single case of disease has 
been traced to Hood's Milk. 

GENERAL OFFICES AND CHEMICAL AND BACTERIOLOGICAL LABORATORY 
494 Rutherford Avenue, Charlestown, Mass. 

'Phone, Charlestown 600 



DAIRY LABORATORY 
70 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 

'Phone, Back Bay 4430 

FOREST HILLS BRANCH OFFICE 
24 Anson St., Forest Hills, Mass. 

'Phone, Jamaica 1010 



HOODS MODEL CREAMERY 
7 Beacon and 55 Tremont Sts., Boston, Mass. 

•Phone, Haymarket 2580 

NORUMBEGA BRANCH OFHCE 
289 Pleasant St., Watertown, Mass. 

'Phone, Newton North 1340 



Hot CoJ\fee 

FOR 

A// OcccLSions 



ORIENTAL TEA CO. 

(Sign of Big Tea Kettle) 

87 Court St.» Scollay Square 
BOSTON 

ESTABLISHED 1865 

J. A. PURINGTON 

, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 

PROVISIONS 

1356 Beacon St„ Brookline, Uass. 

TELEPHONE CONNECTION 



Sai. A. Beckhard & Go. 

ESTABLISHED 1874 

TWO STORES 

70-72 TREMONT STREET 
PARKER HOUSE, BOSTON 

BECKHARD'S BRANCH 
123 SUMMER ST. BOSTON 



COMPLIMENTS OF 



Mrs* Henry Penn 



io8 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



ICE CREAM AND SHERBETS. 

He bought ice cream for his darling 

And she ate, and ate, and ate, 
Till at last her heart she gave him 

To make room for another plate. 

TORTONI ICE CREAM. 

Boil three- fourths of a cupful of water with the same amount 
of sugar, until it threads. Beat the yolks of three eggs thor- 
oughly, the whites to a stiff froth, then mix together. Pour hot 
syrup on eggs gradually stirring until cool, thick and creamy: 
flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla. Whip one pint of cream 
and add to mixture. Grate one dozen stale macaroons, put half 
the crumbs in mold, turn in the tortoni, then the rest of the 
crumbs. Pack mold in ice and salt and let stand four hours. — 

Sophia L. Strauss. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

One pint sweet cream, one pint milk, pinch of salt, three 
eggs, one-half cup granulated sugar, one-half cup powdered 
sugar, three teaspoonfuls of vanilla flavoring. Scald the milk, 
add the eggs beaten light, without separating, to which one- 
half cupful of granulated sugar has been added. Turn scalded 
milk into eggs very slowly; after ingredients are well mixed 
put into double boiler anl cook until quite thick, stirring con- 
stantly to avoid lumps or curdling. Turn into bowl and set 
away until cold. Then add the vanilla or other flavoring. Whip 
cream until stiff, add one-half cupful of powdered sugar and 
stir into custard, mix well and freeze. Better when custard is 
made day before. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 109 

CLARET SHERBET. 

One quart claret, one pint granulated sugar, whites of three 
eggs, one-half pint water. Dissolve sugar in claret, add water 
and freeze. When partly frozen add whites of eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth.— Mr.y. /. Phillips. 



LEMON SHERBET. 

One quart of milk, juice of two lemons, one and one-half 
cupfuls of sugar beaten well. Freeze at once. — Mrs. Ida Cohen, 

Note: — Nice served from cups made of oranges by cutting 
in halves and removing pulp. 



HAPPY SHERBET. 



Press one pint unseasoned cooked apple pulp through a 
sieve, with one pint of cranberry juice; add the juice of one 
lemon, one teaspoonful vanilla and one pint of sugar. Cook ten 
minutes ; cool and freeze as for ices. Serve in crystal glasses. — ■ 

Mabel D. 



SULTANA ROLL. 

"All that's sweet was made but to be lost when sweetest." — Moore. 

Mix one cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, one table- 
spoonful flour and one tgg; add one pint of milk. Cook twenty 
minutes, cool and add one quart of cream, one teaspoonful of 
almond and one teaspoonful of vanilla extracts. Color light 
green and freeze. When done line melon mold with it. Fill the 
middle with one pint of whipped cream, sweetened with one- 
third cup of powdered sugar and one-fourth cup of cherries 
soaked in brandy and one-fourth cup of Sultana raisins. Pack 
in ice two hours. Serve with claret sauce. — Mrs. G. E. Beekman. 



no THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Add two cupfuls of sugar to one quart of water. Boil 
twenty minutes without stirring. When cool, add the juice of 
two lemons, and one quart of crushed strawberries. Freeze like 
ice cream, and when nearly frozen add the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Freeze again until the mixture is very 
stiff, and allow it to stand in freezer an hour or two to ripen 
before serving. — Mrs. A. G. Daniels. 



CHERRY BISQUE. 

Mix two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour with two cupfuls 
of sugar. Break four whole eggs into the above mixture, and 
stir to a cream with a pinch of salt. Put one pint of milk in a 
double boiler. Mix flour, sugar and eggs with a little milk, and 
add to the milk in the double boiler, and cook until thick, and 
then strain, and cool. Flavor with one cupful of rum; cut up 
some maraschino cherries, and add to it, and a little of the juice 
and one quart of cream, and freeze. — Mrs. G. E. Beekman. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. iii 

FROZEN DESSERTS. 

"In the hedge the frosted berries grow." — Sarah Whitman. 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES. 

Take nice ripe strawberries, put into a bowl and mash ; make 
sweeter than for the table. Let them stand until the juice is 
drawn out, then freeze. Serve with either whipped or ice cream. 

— Mrs. J. S. Heiderman. 



MAPLE CREAM. 



Yolks of three eggs, one-half cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
maple syrup, one-half pint of whipped cream, one tablespoonful 
of gelatine dissolved. Add the dissolved gelatine to the well- 
beaten yolks and sugar. Stir in maple syrup. Add whipped 
cream and whites beaten to stiff froth. Put in mold on ice. 
Serve cold with whipped cream. — Mrs. B. Birnbaum. 



NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

One-half cup milk, one-half cup sugar, yolks of two eggs. 
Cream in a double boiler until it is like a custard but not quite so 
thick. Let it boil briskly but stir constantly. Make this the day 
before so as to have it very cold. Add whites of two eggs beaten 
stiff, one-half cup cream beaten stiff, two ounces macaroons 
(chopped), two ounces candied cherries (chopped). Pack as 
mousse is packed. Freeze four hours.-^ 

Louie J. Kempner, (Buffalo). 



112 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 

One-half pint cream, one-half pint of milk. Beat thorough- 
ly, add beaten whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls Mocha 
extract, small cup of powdered sugar. Freeze four hours. — 

Mr 6. Felix Kornfeld. 



STRAWBERRY PARFAIT. 

One quart of cream (whipped stiff), one-half cupful pow- 
dered sugar, added to three-fourths of a box of strawberries 
mashed through a colander, then mixed well into the whipped 
cream. Pack in ice and salt. Freeze for four or five hours. — 

Mrs. I. Phillips. 



MOUSSE. 
Three eggs, one-half cup sugar, one pint cream (heavy). 
Flavoring vanilla and a few chopped nuts. Mix the yolks and 
sugar as for cake. Add the whites beaten very stiff ; beat cream 
stiff and add to the above mixture. Put in flavoring and nuts. 
This requires no churning. It should be put in a tin pail and 
this be packed into another large pail, with a solid packing of 
ice and rock salt. Let it freeze four hours. — J. T. Kempner. 



MOCHA MOUSSE. 



Beat yolks of three eggs with half a cupful of granulated 
sugar, and one and one-half tablespoonfuls of Mocha essence. 
Then whites of eggs beaten very stiff with pinch of salt, last 
one pint well-beaten cream. Put mixture in ice cream mold, 
then pack in ice and salt; freeze five hours.* Any sweetened 
fruit, Citti be used instead of Mocha. — Sophia L. Strauss. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 113 

ORANGE MOUSSE. 

Juice of five oranges, juice of one lemon, one tablespoonful 
of gelatine dissolved in hot water, one cup granulated sugar; 
mix together and put in mould; pour over it one-half pint rich 
cream beaten stiff with a little granulated sugar and one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Pack in ice and salt for four hours. — R. B. 



114 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



FRUIT DESSERTS. 

LOVE'S DELIGHT. 

One pint whipped cream, one-half pound marshmallows 
(melted), one teacupful walnuts. Beat thoroughly together 
and serve in sherbet glasses with candied cherry on top of 
each. — Clara v Marx, (Chicago). 



HEAVENLY HASH.— NO. i. 

One pound red raspberries (two quarts), one pound red 
currants (one large box), one pound strawberries (two quarts), 
one pound cherries (two quarts), one pound raisins, three oranges 
grated, use pulp also, rind and juice of two lemons. Cook fruit 
15 minutes, then add five pounds of sugar, and boil from half 
to three-quarters of an hour. Pour into a cool receptacle, let 
stand until cold and fill sherbet glasses. — 

Aimee Goulston Sturm, (Chicago). 



HEAVENLY HASH.— NO. 2. 

Cut three or four different kinds of fruit that may be in 
season and candied cherries into small pieces and mix well 
together, and add chopped nuts, sugar and a little sherry wine. 
Chill these ingredients, and serve either in tall glasses with a 
spoonful of whipped cream on top, and a cherry on top of that, 
or in the halves of oranges, after removing the pulp and juice. 

— Mrs. M. Lowenberg. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOKBOOK. 115 

PRUNE WHIP. 

Whites of six eggs, one cupful of sugar, fifteen prunes 
(chopped), one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Beat whites very stiff, 
add sugar gradually; then stir in chopped prunes and vanilla. 
Bake in a buttered dish in a hot oven for fifteen minutes; 
serving directly from the oven to the table with whipped cream. 

— Lottie B. Feibleman. 



COMPOTE DELICEUSE, OR "HELDELIGHT." 

Four pounds rhubarb, one pound raisins, one-quarter pound 
shelled walnuts (cut small), two lemons sliced (leaving peel 
on), rind and juice of one lemon; clean and strip rhubarb, cut 
into very small pieces ; wash and dry thoroughly, then add other 
ingredients and boil for one hour.— 

Aimee Goulston Sturm, (Chicago). 



ii6 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



PRESERVES AND MARMALADES. 

"Swooning in sweetness." — Thomas Read. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE 

Pare and wash pineapple, then put through grinder ; to each 
pineapple add two cups granulated sugar, put in kettle and boil 
until clear. — Mrs. Rosie Rosenberg, Chicago. 



PRESERVED WHOLE CURRANTS. 

Take red, ripe, dry currants from the stem, one pound of 
sugar to one box of currants. Put currants on to cook; as soon 
as they get warm put in the sugar. Have the sugar heated. 
Boil together one-half hour; try and keep the currants whole. 
Put in glass jar cover tight. — S. A. W. 



GRAPE FRUIT MARMALADE. 

One grape fruit, one orange, one lemon, five pounds sugar; 
cut fruit (pulp and skin) into small pieces and measure; soak 
in two and a half times as much cold water as you have fruit, 
for twenty-four hours. Then let this mixture get warmed 
through; soak for another twenty-four hours, then warm again. 
When thoroughly warm add sugar. Let this boil briskly until 
it has boiled down one-third. It should be a golden yellow. 
Put in marmalade glasses; these do not need to be warm. — 

/. T. K emptier. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 117 

PEAR CHIPS.— NO. I. 

Eight pounds green Bartlett pears sliced in eighths, five 
pounds of granulated sugar, six lemons sliced, leaving peel on 
three, one-quarter pound preserved ginger (dry) ; cut in small 
pieces, peel the pears. Let all stand over night. In the morn- 
ing, boil until pears are transparent and rich reddish color — 
from six to eight hours boiling slowly. Delicious. — Mrs. I. Weil. 



PEAR CHIPS.— NO. 2. 

Four pounds of pears chopped fine, four pounds of sugar 

five cents worth ginger root, two lemons (the juice of), pee^ 

cut fine, one tumbler of water. Cook slowly until transparent. 

— Mrs. George Brown, (Bradford, Vt.) 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Nine oranges and four lemons ; peeling and all, except seeds, 
sliced in narrow strips. Add three quarts and one pint of water 
and let it stand over night; let it come to a good boil in the 
morning and then add three and one-half pounds of granulated 
sugar. Boil one hour. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



WATERMELON PRESERVE. 

Cut out red and boil until soft, then squeeze through colan- 
der; take four cups of sugar to eight cups of juice, boil thirty 
minutes. Add the melon rind, sliced, using half quantity of 
sugar and boil all for two hours. Then slice in a lemon and 
put spices in a bag and boil for another hour. Excellent. — 

Florence Levy. 



ii8 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



JELLIES. 

CONCORD GRAPE AND APPLE JELLY. 

One basket Concord grapes, not too ripe. Wash (do not 
stem), put in a preserving kettle and mash grapes and stems 
with potato masher. Put on fire and let simmer till soft, then 
squeeze through cheese cloth. Six or eight tart apples, peel and 
quarter, put on with a little water and boil until tender but not 
mashed; drain off the liquor and add it to the strained grape 
juice. Measure cup of juice to cup of sugar. After it comes to 
a boil skim and let boil twenty minutes. Fill jelly glasses, cover 
with paraffin. The apples may then be used for sauce by mash- 
ing, adding sugar and beaten white of tgg. Flavor with little 
vanilla. — Florence Levy. 



CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash the currants clean. Put them in a preserving kettle 
and mash them. Boil thirty minutes or more, or until they are 
thoroughly cooked. Dip them, a quart at a time, into a cheese 
cloth, straining bag and squeeze out all the juice. Measure this 
and for each pint allow one pound of granulated sugar. Put the 
juice over the fire, let boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, then add 
the sugar and let it boil rapidly five minutes longer. Skim clear, 
put in jelly tumblers, covering with melted paraffin and white 
paper tied over each glass, and marking same. — Mrs. L Phillips. 



CURRANT AND RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Follow directions for making currant jelly, using one-third 
as many raspberries. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK, 119 

ASPIC JELLY. 

For Fancy Dish. 

To be used as a garnish for salads or cold meats. One 
fowl, one shin of beef, one knuckle of veal, four cloves, one bay 
leaf, two onions, one carrot, one stalk of tender celery, one turnip, 
one-half a box of Cox's gelatine and one cupful of sherry wine. 
Put the chicken, beef and veal in a pot, and cover with cold 
water, and boil for five hours. Add the carrot, cloves, turnip 
and bay leaf one hour before removing from the stove. Fry the 
onions and celery cut in small pieces, in butter, and add to the 
other ingredients ; remove from the stove and strain, and then 
add the gelatine and the sherry, then strain again. Let stand 
over night, and then take off all fat ; mix the whites of two eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, with the cold jelly, and heat, and boil up 
once more; then strain through a cloth, and put in fancy jelly 
border. — Mrs. Henry Ehrlich. 



I20 THE, UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



CONFECTIONERY. 

"A wilderness of sweets." — "Paradise Lost." 

PEPPERMINTS. 

"Oh the world hath not a sweeter creature!" — Shakespeare. 

Four drops of essence of peppermint, one cup sugar, one- 
quarter cup water, one pinch of cream of tartar. Boil until it 
strings; add essence; beat it until it begins to thicken. Drop 
on marble slab. — R. H. L. 



MAPLE FUDGE. 



One-half cup walnuts, two cupfuls of brown sugar, one 
cup of milk, one piece of butter size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls 
of maple syrup. Cook until it hardens when dropped in water; 
take from fire, add walnuts and beat until thick. — B. B. 



CRYSTAL NUTS. 



One cup of nut meats (hickory-nuts preferred), one-half 
cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of water. Cook sugar and water 
till it strings; take from fire, add nuts and beat it well. — B. B. 



BUTTER SCOTCH. 

One cupful sugar, one-quarter cupful molasses, one-half 
cupful butter, one tablespoonful vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
boling water. Put in a saucepan and boil until it will become 
brittle in cold water. — Edwin L. Feihelman. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. i2i 

TEXAS PECAN CANDY. 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of milk, one 
teaspoonful butter, vanilla to taste. Put these ingredients on 
to boil, and when same is nearly done remove from the stove. 
Melt a cupful of granulated sugar in a frying-pan, and when 
dissolved add it to the other ingredients, but do not scrape the 
frying-pan, and stir all well and let it boil up once briskly; 
then add one cupful pecan meats, and beat until very thick; pour 
out so as to form round cakes with spoon. Lay on paraffine 
paper until cold. Do not let the mixture get too hard before 
making into nut-cakes. — Miss Nifa Wolff, (Texas). 



BUTTER SCOTCH. 



One cupful of granulated sugar, one cupful of vinegar, di- 
luted with a little water, and butter the size of a walnut. Cook 
all the ingredients together, and boil until a small quantity forms 
a soft ball when dropped into cold water. Then add a leaspoonful 
of vanilla, and pour into buttered pan, and cut into squares. 
This candy must be stirred constantly. — Miss Lilian Lauferty. 



MAPLE CANDY. 



Piece of butter size of a walnut, put in a pan and melt, 
then add two large cups maple sugar, two small cups white 
sugar, one small cup water, a pinch of salt. Boil until a little 
dropped in cold water will form a soft ball; set in a cool place 
ten minutes ; have ready two spoonfuls whipped cream, and a 
cup of nuts broken small, stir quickly into the hot sugar and 
pour into pan to cool ; when partly cool cut in squares. Very 
nice. — Mrs. J. J. Guild. 



122 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

FUDGE. 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar, three-quarters cupful of 
milk, one even tablespoonful of butter, two and a half squares 
of Baker's chocolate; take off fire. After cooking the above 
until it forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water, add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla and beat until creamy. Pour into a well- 
buttered shallow pan ; mark, and when cold cut in squares. — 

Maizie C. Goulston. 



MISS LILIAN LAUFERTY'S FAMOUS CHOCOLATE 

FUDGE. 

Two cupfuls of milk, one cupful of granulated sugar, and 
butter the size of a hickory-nut. Cook the milk and sugar to- 
gether until the mixture comes to a boil; then add one oblong 
piece of Baker's sweet vanilla chocolate, grated or broken into 
small pieces. When the chocolate is melted, add the butter, and 
boil all the ingredients from eighteen to twenty minutes or perhaps 
somewhat longer. Test fudge by dropping a small quantity in 
cold water; if it forms a soft ball it is done. Then pour into a 
large platter, and smooth with a spoon until hard enough to take 
into your hands. Then knead it, like you would bread, until 
creamy. If it is too hard, add sweet cream as needed. Roll 
into sticks, cut into pieces and eat. Walnut-meats may be added 
if desired. 



STUFFED MONKEYS. 

"Linked sweetness long drawn out." — Milton. 
One pound fresh dates, washed and stoned; one-half pound 
dried figs, washed, one-half cupful walnut meats. Run through 
fine grinder which forms a paste ; mix thoroughly, form in small 
balls size of walnut; roll in granulated sugar and stick a tooth- 
pick in each. Serve as candy. — Etta B. van Uhn. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 123 

COCOANUT PINOCHE. 

Three cupfuls light brown sugar, one cupful milk, butter 
size of an egg, one-half pint of walnut meats (cut in fine pieces), 
and cocoanut mixed (or Christians Protoid nuts may be substit- 
uted for walnuts), one teaspoonful vanilla. Boil sugar, milk 
and butter about three-quarters of an hour or until a small 
quantity forms a soft ball when dropped into ice water. Take 
off stove and beat with an egg-beater until very thick and 
creamy. Care must be taken not to get it too thick so that one 
can mix nuts and vanilla into mixture easily. Add nuts and 
cocoanut, using a large spoon. Put in well-buttered pans. Cut 
with a sharp knife into squares when sufficiently hard. Deli- 
cious. Will keep indefinitely if kept in tin boxes. 

—Mrs. I. Phillips. 

FRENCH CREAMED DATES. 

"Sweet as the dew shut in a lily's golden core." — Margaret Preston. 

One scant cupful of confectioner's sugar, one-half cupful 
of water, white of one egg, mixed with water ; add flavoring. 
Boil all together, allow to cool, then work between the hands 
and cut in pieces large enough to fill the date from which you 
have removed the stone. Roll dates in granulated sugar. — 

Lizette Hamhro. 



PINOCHE. 



Four cupfuls dark brown sugar, one-half pint thick cream ; 
let it come to a boil, stirring slowly; then add one-half cupful 
maple syrup. Boil until it forms a soft ball in cold water. 
Remove from fire, add one teaspoonful of vanilla and one cupful 
walnut meats broken into small pieces. Beat until the mixture 
is thick enough to pour on greased plate. Mark and cut when 
cold. 



124 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

CANDIED GRAPE FRUIT PEEL. 

The skins of three grape fruit and the juice and pulp of one, 
three cupfuls of granulated sugar, and one cupful cold water. 
Take grape fruit skins and remove all the pith, leaving a little 
on the skins; scrub them with a small brush and wash thor- 
oughly and cut in small strips, soak in cold water for two hours ; 
drain, add fresh cold water and bring to a boil ; repeat this pro- 
cess three times; the third time boil about five minutes; drain, 
wash thoroughly and stand it aside. Make a syrup of three 
cupfuls of granulated sugar and one cupful of water; when 
sugar is dissolved drop in strips of grape fruit peel and boil 
very slowly until the syrup is all absorbed and peel is transparent. 
Roll each piece separately in granulated sugar and place on 
paraffin paper for a few days, then pack in tin box with paraffin 
paper between. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 125 



PICKLES, RELISHES, ETC 

PICCALILLI. 

One-half peck green tomatoes and three large onions 
chopped fine, one-half cupful of salt, one pint of vinegar, one 
quart of water. Boil twenty minutes, strain and add one pound 
of sugar, one quart of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls mustard-seed. 
Mixed spices tied in a bag; boil five minutes when it is ready 
for bottling. — Lottie B. Feihleman. 



CHOW CHOW. 



Take three heads of cauliflower, one quart string beans, 
two quarts green tomatoes, two quarts silver onions, one hun- 
dred and fifty small gherkins, three red and three green peppers. 
Throw seeds of peppers away. Use seven quarts of vinegar, eleven 
cupfuls brown sugar, three scant tablespoonfuls white mustard- 
seed, two cupfuls flour, three jars German mustard. Mix flour 
and mustard with cold vinegar to a smooth paste and strain. 
Cut cauliflower into small sections, cut string beans into medium 
sized pieces, and the tomatoes are to be sliced, each slice quar- 
tered; peppers cut into tiny pieces. Make brine with sufficient 
water (to cover pickles, beans, etc.), and two cupfuls of salt 
and pour over the gherkins, beans, etc., and allow all to stand 
over night in a large agate bread pan. In the morning measure 
the brine, then let it come to a boil with a small piece of alum 
(the size of a nutmeg). Pour the hot brine over the vegetables; 
throw the brine away when quite cool and for each quart of 



126 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK, 

vinegar used take one scant cupful of brown sugar and put on 
to boil, and after it boils, mix in three and a half cupfuls of 
flour and a scant half pound of dry mustard and boil until it 
thickens ; it must be smooth and pasty. Then take it off 
the stove and mix with three fifteen-cent jars of German mus- 
tard and pour over the pickles, etc. ; allow to stand until perfectly 
cold. Put small piece of horseradish root in each bottle. — 

Mrs. G. E. Beekman. 



MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Take very large cucumbers, peel and quarter them; remove 
all the seeds and green part. Salt them over night, one layer 
of cucumber and one of salt. Next day, dry them with a cloth, 
each piece separately. One gallon vinegar, one-half pound 
sugar, one-quarter pound whole mustard-seeds and a few bay 
leaves. Let them boil up, then add cucumbers a few at a time. 
When glazed take out; put in stone crock or glass jars, cover with 
liquid.— 5*. A. White, 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Twelve cucumber pickles, one quart white wine vinegar, one 
pound brown sugar and cayenne pepper and allspice to taste. 
Pare cucumbers and cut in eight pieces ; salt well over night. 
Next morning wipe each dry, free from salt. Boil vinegar, sugar, 
cayenne and allspice. Pour over pickles in a crock. Allow to 
stand a few days, when they may be eaten. — Mrs. I. Phillips. 



PRUNES IN SHERRY. 

To BE Served with Meats. 
Soak large prunes in sherry over night. Take out the pit 
before serving and put a blanched almond on top. 

-Mrs. S. Gutman. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 127 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Peel and slice, a little salt on each layer over night in stone 
jar ; next morning squeeze them out thoroughly ; place on a 
platter. Boil enough vinegar (to cover) with mustard-seeds, 
whole black peppers and cloves. When vinegar comes to a boil 
throw in cucumbers and let them bubble up once and remove 
immediately, adding a small quantity of sugar. Place in jars, 
putting one small red pepper in each ; seal while hot.- 

Florence Levy. 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Select firm, light green tomatoes, cut into slices without 
peeling, cover with a weak brine (one cup of salt to one gallon 
of water) ; stand over night. Take out of brine, rinse in cold 
water. For two gallons of sliced tomatoes use one quart of 
vinegar, two pounds of sugar and a little ginger root. Cook 
until tender, but not broken. Remove from fire and add one 
ounce cassia buds, one ounce stick cinnamon, one ounce whole 
cloves and half ounce whole mace. Seal in quart jars. A prize 
winner. — Mrs. C. W. Greene, (Forest Glen, 111.) 



PICKLED SILVER ONIONS. 

Peel and throw into cold water, then make a brine of salt 
and water so strong that an tgg will float on top. Let the brine 
come to a boil, throw onions in, in small quantities, let them 
remain in the boiling brine five minutes, then skim and put on 
a platter where you have previously placed a towel to dry them. 
When cool put in a glass jar with red pepper (cut up), white 
whole pepper, and horseradish. Pour cold vinegar over them, 
and seal. — Florence Levy. 



128 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

To four dozen peaches, take three pints of granulated sugar, 
and half gallon white wine vinegar, and cloves and cinnamon to 
taste. Put the spices in a little bag of thin material, and fasten 
to the top edge of the preserve kettle; this gives the fruit the 
spice flavor, but prevents the dark spices from being in the clear 
juice. Boil sugar and vinegar well together and drop the peaches 
in. Do not peel the peaches, but brush off the fuzz with a 
stiff brush. Let them remain in the syrup until you can pierce 
them easily with a silver fork. Put peaches in jars and pour 
hot juice over them, until they overflow. Seal while hot. Use 
White-Heath peaches. — Florence Levy. 



CORN RELISH. 



Ten cups corn cut from cob, ten cups cabbage cut fine, six 
large red peppers cut fine, six large green peppers cut fine. 
Enough vinegar to cover the above, mixed with one-quarter 
pound ground mustard, two tablespoonfuls salt, three cups sugar. 
Let stand on stove and cook slowly until cabbage is done. Can. 
This quantity will fill five quart jars. — Mrs. G. E. Beekman. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 129 



BEVERAGES. 

"With beaded bubbles winking at the brim, 
And purple-stained mouth." — Keats. 

TEA. 

One teaspoonful of tea for two cups of boiling water. Have 
the teapot warm, put in desired quantity of tea with just enough 
water to moisten it, allow to stand two or three minutes ; add 
fresh boiling water, cover with a tea cozy for five minutes, then 
pour off the tea from the leaves into the pot from which you 
intend to serve the tea. This prevents tannic acid predominating, 
which ocurs when tea is allowed to steep over five minutes. — 

F. /. L. 



TEA A LA RUSSE. 

Lay a slice of lemon in the bottom of each cup, sprinkle 
with sugar and pour hot tea over it. No cream or milk is used. 



COFFEE. 

Tastes differ so in regard to the best way to make this 
beverage, that only a few hints are recorded here. Freshly 
roasted coffee, ground when about to be used, is not only the 
most satisfactory, but most economical. 

If milk is used in coffee it should be hot; cream warm. 

A perfectly clean pot is necessary to ensure good coffee. 

Before putting coffee away if it is spread out in a large 
roasting pan, and put in the oven a few moments, after tossing it 
about in a bowl with the white of an tgg, it will be quite clear 
when made. 



I30 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE. 

"Lord Henry has discussed his chocolate." — Byron. 

One square of Baker's unsweetened chocolate to one cup 
of boiling water. Cut up or grate chocolate, put it in the boiling 
water and boil three or four minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream. Each person is to sweeten same to taste. Add marsh- 
mallow as a new wrinkle. — R. H. L. 



BLACKBERRY BRANDY. 

Allow two quarts of blackberries and a pound of cut loaf 
sugar to one gallon of brandy. Put all in a large jug, cork 
and set it in the sun for two weeks at least. You may add whole 
spices, such as cloves and stick cinnamon, if desired.— 

Fannie Frank Phillips. 



MINT JULIP 



Into a tumbler pour one and a half sherry glassfuls of rye 
whiskey, two dashes of Jamaica rum. Crush slightly with the 
fingers, one bunch of fresh mint ; let it stand in the mixture a 
few moments, then remove it. Fill the tumbler with shaved 
ice (it should be like snow), add the whiskey and Jamaica rum; 
keep the outside of the glass perfectly dry, stir with a small 
wooden paddle until the frost begins to form on the outside; 
let it stand until the frost thickens, then pour in half teaspoonful 
of orange curacoa. Lastly, fill tumbler with a small bunch of 
mint, dipped in pulverized sugar, which gives the appearance 
of frost. Requires about ten minutes to make. Sweet peas 
added make a beautiful decoration. Delicious on a warm day. 

—F. J. L. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 131 

PUNCH. 

Enough for Twenty-five Persons. 
Two dozen lemons, one dozen oranges (the juice of eleven, 
one cut in small shapes), two bananas, (sliced thin), half fresh 
pineapple (or one cup of preserved), one quart St. Julien claret, 
one gill Jamaica rum, four quarts of iced water. Strawberries 
may be added if desired. 



LEMONADE. 



Pour boiling water over the lemons used, being extremely 
careful to extract all the seeds. Bottle it and set on ice. Sweeten 
only what is to be used, and cork up the bottle again, and return 
it to the ice-chest. This is both good and economical. 



CLARET CUP. 



Use one bottle of club soda or apolinaris. Put a sufficient 
quantity of cut loaf sugar in a glass pitcher, and a small liquor 
glassful of any liquor you have; curacoa is preferred to any 
other. Add to the above two slices of cucumber-rind, cut length- 
wise, a good-sized piece of ice, three or four slices of pine- 
apple, a slice or two of orange, a few fresh strawberries (when 
in season), or maraschino cherries. Now pour the soda or apol- 
inaris onto the other ingredients, and then the bottle of claret. 
Fill the mouth of the pitcher wih a bunch of fresh mint — too 
decided a mint flavor is given when it is mixed with the other 
ingredients. — Mrs. Hugo Goodman, (Chicago). 



GRAPE JUICE. 

- Ten pounds of grapes, two pounds of granulated sugar. 
Boil grapes until they are soft, then strain. Bring the juice to 
the boiling point, then add the sugar. Bottle hot. — Mrs. N. E. R. 



132 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



PASSOVER DISHES. 

THE SETTING OF THE TABLE FOR THE SEDER 

SERVICE. 

1. Place three matzoth, called mitzvoth, on a large plate, and 
cover each separately with a napkin. On a tray place the follow- 
ing: 

2. An tgg, and 

3. The shankbone of a lamb, both roasted upon the coals or 
open fire. 

4. A dish of Haroseth. This is made of apple, almonds, 
and raisins, chopped fine, and cinnamon and a little wine added. 

5. Bitter herbs (the green top of horseradish, or celery). 
Also some of the horseradish root or lettuce. 

6. A dish of vinegar or salt-water. 

7. Parsley or cress — to be dipped therein. 

It is considered obligatory that four cups of wine be drunk 
during the services, at the places indicated therein. An extra 
cup of wine is usually set upon the table. This is called "the 
cup of Elijah." The table linen, and everything connnected with 
the services must be immaculate. 



POTATO SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, quarter pound potato flour, one cup sugar. Beat 
the yolks with the sugar; beat the whites to a snow. Put the 
flour with the yolks and sugar ; add the whites. Be sure and have 
the oven moderately hot as the success of this cake depends upon 
the oven. — Mrs. L. Moses. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 133 

MATZOS DIPPED IN EGGS AND MILK. 

Beat twelve eggs and one quart of milk very light, and add 
a little salt. Soak twelve matzos in the beaten eggs and milk. 
Heat a quantity of goose oil in a spider. Put in soaked matzos, 
one or two at a time, and fry a golden brown on both sides. 
When brown place on a large platter, and sprinkle with a mix- 
ture of cinnamon and sugar, and a little grated lemon peel. — 

Mrs. I. Phillips. 



CHRIMSEL. 

Soak about three matzos. Take a handful of raisins (seeded) 
and pound as many almonds as you have raisins. Press every 
drop of water out of the matzos. Put them in a bowl, and stir 
them to a cream, and add a pinch of salt, the peel of a lemon, 
yolks of six eggs and one cupful of sugar, the raisins and 
almonds, and a little cinnamon. Heat a little goose oil in a 
spider, using enough of it, as the more oil used, the better the 
chrimsel will be. Add, last of all, the stiffly beaten whites to the 
batter. Then fry a light brown, on both sides, using about one 
tablespoonful of the batter for each chrimsel. Serve hot with 
stewed prunes poured over the chrimsel. 



RAISIN WINE. 



To every pound of large raisins used, allow one quart of 
water; chop the raisins and put in a stone jar. Set in a warm 
place (and cover) for four or five days ; then press through a 
coarse cloth, pressing the raisins thoroughly. Strain again 
through a cloth or bag as you would jelly. Fill wine bottles, 
and put a piece of lemon peel in each bottle. Cork and put in 
a dry, cool place. 



134 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

GINGER STICKS, OR INGVERLACH. 

Boil strained honey and granulated sugar together, in the 
proportion of two cupfuls of honey to one of sugar, and the 
peel of half a lemon added, for ten minutes. Add ground ginger 
to taste, probably a good tablespoon ful, if not more. Add 
enough matzo meal so as to make the mixture so thick that 
it is difficult to stir it, and while hot form between palms of the 
hands into round sticks, of the thickness of the little finger, 
and cut in three-inch lengths. Set aside to cool and serve as 
candy. As the sticks are apt to be sticky, put away on paraffin 
paper. — Mrs. James Cohen. 



MATZOTH DUMPLINGS. 

{See Sauce for Dumplings). 
Soak six matzoths in cold water to cover for one hour ; then 
drain until perfectly dry. Chop very fine and brown one medium 
sized onion in two spoonfuls (large) of chicken fat. Add this 
to the matzoths, and also two eggs beaten until very light, and 
add enough matzoth meal to make a stiff batter. Season with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg (grated), and chopped parsley to taste. 
Form into small balls and boil in sauce or salted water for ten 
minutes. — Mrs. Julius Falkenberg. 



RUSSIAN BEET PRESERVE. 

Take eight medium-sized fresh-boiled beets, and cut them 
into narrow strips, and plunge into strained honey and sugar; 
while it is boiling briskly, using the honey and sugar in the pro- 
portion of two cupfuls of honey to one of sugar, and add ginger 
root or ground ginger, and orange-peel to taste, and the juice 
of half a lemon. Use just enough honey to cover beets and 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK, 135 

watch it carefully while it is boiling, as it scorches easily. Let 
all the ingredients simmer gently for about two hours, or until 
the beets are very rich and transparent. When about to remove 
from the stove, add half a cupful of chopped walnuts. If foment- 
ed beets are used, omit the juice of the lemon, and do not boil 
them. — Mrs. James Cohen. 



NEW YORK PASSOVER CAKE. 

Six eggs, yolks and whites, beaten separately, one cupful 
of granulated sugar, three tablespoonfuls of matzo meal, and 
three tablespoonfuls of potato flour, and grated rind and juice 
of a lemon to taste. Beat yolks and sugar together until very 
light, add flavoring, then the matzo meal and potato flour alter- 
nately, mixing well after each spoonful of meal and flour. Add 
the whites beaten to a stiff froth last of all, folding in gently. 
Grease spring form or other cake pan with either olive oil or 
butter. Moderate oven. — Miss Pauline Phillips. 



136 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 



TABLE DECORATION. 

"And all went merry as a marriage-bell." — Byron, (Childe Harold). 

TABLE DECORATION FOR WEDDING DINNER. 

Four strings of the fine asparagus vine, each about four feet 
in length, to be attached to the under portion of the chandelier 
over the table in the dining-room, with a large white satin bow, 
artistically arranged with a shower of artificial orange-blossoms 
hanging from same. Attach a large wedding-bell to bow, com- 
posed either of white crepe paper, or fresh bride roses, the 
tongue of bell to be composed of orange-blossoms. The table- 
cloth should be of fine damask, the pattern representing cupids 
and orange-blossoms. Use in centre of same a handsome centre- 
piece embroidered in white, the pattern to be orange-blossoms, 
and the edge to be embroidered with heart-shaped scollops. Place 
a rich fruit-cake, baked in a spring form, and frosted white, on 
a cut-glass cake stand with a lace paper under cake, and place 
dish in centre of table under wedding-bell. Place dolls, repre- 
senting bride and groom, upright, side by side in centre of cake, 
appropriately attired, and attach streamers of white baby-ribbon 
to their hands, the other ends to be placed, attached to white 
candy hearts, at the places of the happy couple. Artificial orange- 
blossoms should be suspended here and there from the aspar- 
agus vines, and placed in ribbon bows at the ends of the table. 
White cupids should decorate the edge of the cake. Two cut 
glass flower vases, filled with bride roses, should be placed at 
opposite corners of the table. — Mrs. Isidor Phillips. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 137 



FOOD FOR THE CONVALESCENT. 

"Tis a little thing 
To give a cup of water; yet its draught 
Of cool refreshment, drained by fevered lips, 
May give a shock of pleasure to the frame. 
More exquisite than when nectarean juice 
Renews the life of joy in happiest hours." — Coleridge. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Heat a thick slice of beefsteak just enough to start the 
juice (do not cook it) ; squeeze out all the juice with a lemon 
squeezer; add salt to taste. 



BEEF TEA. 



One pound of lean beef cut in small pieces, put in a jar with- 
out water, cover tight and set in a dish of cold water. Heat 
to boiling-point gradually and simmer three of four hours until the 
meat looks white, and the juice is all drawn out. Season with 
salt to taste. Skim when cold. Serve very hot with thin wafers. 



BAKED MILK. 



Baked milk is a drink often recommended for invalids. Put 
the milk in a stone jar; cover it well, and let it bake very slowly 
several hours, when it should be thick, and of a creamy consist- 
ency. The flavor is unique, and reminds one somewhat of Devon- 
shire cream. It may be served with fruit, or merely alone as a 
custard dessert. 



Lamson & Hubbard 


THE SUNSHINE LAUNDRY 


HAl 1 ERS and FURRIERS 

FOR 


Has made a Study 


MEN AND WOMEN 


of Fine Work on 


90 TO 94 BEDFORD STREET 


Collars 


COR. KINGSTON 




173 WASHINGTON ST. 


8 Flora St., Brookline, Mass. 


BOSTON, MASS. 






Ida S. Cohen 




llneurance 


Meal Neckwear 


573 WASHINGTON ST. 

ROOM 31 


Company 


Telephone, Main 2829 Brookline 98 M 




Boston, = Mass. 


Geo. H. Lloyd & Co. 

©pticiane 




23 WINTER ST.. BOSTON 




G. W. MANSFIKI.D 


Maurice Rosenfeld 


Compliments of 


Inton f rintpr 


The Columbian 


Ball, Book and Political Printing 


Insecticide Co. 


6i HANOVER ST- 




BOSTON, ^ MASS. 


p. J. BONNER, Manager 


Telephone. Haymarket 2561-2 





THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 139 

SEVERAL WAYS OF PREPARING CHICKENS. 

Chicken tea is made by boiling any part of the chicken and 
using the broth, made very weak, and a very little salt. Chicken 
broth is made by boiling a chicken, after the skin and fat have 
been removed ; skim very thoroughly, and season with salt ; strain 
through a sieve or coarse towel to separate the broth from the 
bone and fibre. Thicken with a little flour or sago if desired. 
Chicken panada is made by pounding some of the meat of boiled 
chicken in a mortar with a little broth, and a little salt and nutmeg. 
Then pour in a little broth, and boil all five minutes. Chicken 
jelly is made by taking the strong chicken broth, and adding a 
quarter of a box of gelatine soaked well in cold water until soft, 
to one quart of boiling broth, salted. The juice of a lemon may 
be added if desired. Strain through muslin and cool in mold. 



OATMEAL GRUEL. 



Add half a cupful of steamed oatmeal to one quart of boiling 
water. Boil gently half an hour, stirring frequently. If it boils 
away too much add a little water. Strain, add salt, and return 
to the stove, and add as much milk as desired, heating it, but 
not allowing it to come to a boil. 



FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Steep five tablespoonfuls of whole flaxseed, one quart of 
boiling water, and the juice of three lemons (extract the seeds), 
for three hours in a covered porcelain-lined vessel. Sweeten to 
taste. If the mixture is too thick, add more water, and then 
strain. Add ice. Excellent remedy for coughs. 



I40 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

DRIED FLOUR FOR TEETHING CHILDREN. 

Tie up as much flour as a napkin will hold; set it on to 
boil in plenty of cold milk, and boil at least four hours, slowly, 
but steadily, in an earthen milk bowl. Take it out of the nap- 
kin, as it will now be a solid ball, and scrape off the thick yellow 
rind. Grate one tablespoonful, wet it with a little cold water, 
stir in half a cupful of boiling milk, add a pinch of salt, and boil 
about five minutes. This may be given to an infant when it 
is suffering from a very bad attack of summer complaint. It 
is a positive cure for diarrhoea in children. Keep it in a dry 
place, and it will keep for some time. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 141 



VALUABLE HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

"A well regulated home is a millenium on a small scale." — Talmage. 

FOR CLEANING SILVER. 

One pint of alcohol, one-half ounce of ammonia, four ounces 
of Spanish whiting, half a pint of rain water. Apply with a 
sponge and wipe with a soft cloth. 



TO TAKE OUT STAINS. 

Use salts of lemon for iron rust. Use sour milk for ink 
stains. Use boiling water for berry stains. Use starch powdered 
and rubbed into soft soap and the juice of a lemon for mildew ; 
lay it on both sides with a brush, and put on green grass night 
and day until the stains are removed. 



POLISH FOR FLOORS. 

One pound of beeswax, one quart of benzine; melt the 
beeswax soft and add the benzine, put over the stove (the fire 
closely covered as benzine is inflammable) ; stir till well mixed. 
Clean the floor thoroughly, and rub in the mixture. It shows 
the grain of the wood, and makes a permanent polish, growing 
better by use. It is free of dust and clean and is easy to take 
care of; the floor of the Louvre in Paris has been treated with 
this preparation, and all who have seen it will readily recall it 
smooth and clean appearance. 



COOKING FOR GOOD BUSINESS 



IT has been well said, that "the Fate of Nations depends on how 
they are fed." It also goes without saying, that the success or 
failure of a business or enterprise, is often determined by the charader 
and appearance of its advertising and printed matter. 
^ Good Printing is the motive power behind every big business. 
Poor Printing is waste-basket circulation, and not likely to secure an 
overdose of business. 

^ During the pa^ thirty years, the be^ examples of "The Art 
Preservative" issued by the leading Jewish Societies of Bo^on, invari- 
ably bore the imprint of DANIELS PRINTING CO. 
fl This may not be saying much, but the ^atement will ^and for 
what it is worth. 

^ We have lost many opportunities where an inconsistent price was 
the main desideratum ; but whenever it was a question of "Quality," 
or a carte blanche proposition, the work always came to us unso- 
licited. 

^ As this Manual is not likely to receive much attention from busi- 
ness men, we respedfully ask the ladies of the Council, and others, 
to bring this fact to the notice of their husbands, with the advice that 
we have one of the be^ equipped plants in Boston, for Modem 
Commercial Printing, Catalogues, Booklets, Illustrated Advertising 
Matter of every description, in one or more colors. Embossing, etc. 
^ We would be pleased to come in touch wdth those who can ap- 
preciate the value of first-class service at fair prices. 



DANIELS PRINTING CO. 

79 FRANKLIN STREET, Cor. Arch Street 




THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 143 

HOW TO COOK A HUSBAND. 

A good many husbands are wholly spoiled by inexperienced 
cooks, and so are not tender and good. Some wives keep them 
too constantly in hot water ; others freeze them ; others put them 
in a stew; others roast them, while still others keep them con- 
stantly in a pickle. It cannot be supposed that any husband will 
be good and tender if prepared in any of the above ways, but 
they are truly delicious if properly treated. 

Don't keep him in the kettle by force, as he will stay there 
of his own accord, if proper care is taken; don't be anxious if 
he should sputter and fizz, as this is peculiar to some husbands. 
Add a little sugar in the form of what confectioners call "kisses," 
but on no account add any vinegar or pepper, as this might prove 
detrimental to his temper. A little spice improves him, but it 
must be used with judgment. Do not try him with something 
sharp to see if he is becoming tender. Stir him gently now and 
then, lest he lie too long in the kettle, and thus become flat and 
tasteless. If these directions are followed, he will be found to 
be very digestible, agreeing with you nicely, and he may be kept, 
surrounded by love and affection, as long as you care to have 
him. 



USES FOR SALT< 



Salt thrown on a coal fire when broiling steak, will prevent 
blazing from the dripping fat. 

Salt will put out a fire in the chimney. 

Salt put on ink when freshly spilled on a carpet, or on a 
fresh claret stain on table linen, will help in removing the spots. 

Salt used in sweeping carpets keeps moths away. 



144 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

TO TAKE RUST OUT OF STEEL. 

Cover with sweet oil, well rubbed on and in forty-eight hours 
use unslacked lime finely powdered, and rub till the rust disap- 
pears. 

TO WHITEN CLOTH. 

One-half pound chloride of lime to three pails of soft water. 



TO CLEAN OIL PAINTINGS. 

Wring a piece of soft flannel from warm water and dip in 
very fine pulverized French chalk, and rub the painted surface 
gently; then wash with a clean sponge and warm water, and dry 
with a bit of wash leather. This method will not injure, like 
using soap does. 



TO AVOID LARGE HOLES IN BREAD. 

If the water or milk with which you mix your bread is too 
hot, your bread will be full of holes. 



TO CLEAN CUT GLASS. 

Wash in soap-suds and ammonia water. Rinse in ammonia 
water and drain, then wash in clear alcohol (pour alcohol with 
small spoon over the pieces), or apply with small brush. Dry 
well with tissue paper. 



TO BEAT WHITES OF EGGS QUICKLY. 

To beat the whites of eggs quickly, put in a pinch of salt. 
It cools and freshens them. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 145 

MAKING SOAP. 

Six pounds of rendered grease, one can of Babbit's potash, 
dissolved in one quart of cold water ; let stand until cool ; one- 
half pound of powdered borax, dissolved in one pint of luke- 
warm water, juice of three lemons, or one quart of oatmeal 
(sifted fine). Pour potash slowly on grease and stir until it 
thickens, place a cloth in a large pan and pour mixture onto same, 
and allow it to stand until it commences to harden. Cut in 
squares, and let stand over night. 



SOAP-BARK AND HOW TO USE IT. 

Soap bark is an effective cleaner of woolen skirts and men's 
clothes, as it is a quick eradicator of grease and dirt. Use about 
five-cents' worth of the soap-bark ; pour a quart of boiling water 
over it, steep it gently over the fire for two hours, keeping the 
heat low, that the water will not boil away. Then strain through 
a piece of cheese-cloth, and it is ready to use. Any ripping 
apart of garments that needs to be done should be done before 
the cleansing process takes place. Brush the garments carefully 
first, and then apply the liquid with a woolen cloth, going care- 
fully over every spot, paying especial attention to the most soiled 
spots. After sponging rinse in ammonia water, and before gar- 
ment is thoroughly dried press it between two dark cloths. 



TO MAKE POTATOES WHITE. 

Add a little milk to water in which potatoes are boiled and 
they will, when done, look very white and taste well. After the 
water is poured off give the pot three or four sharp jerks so as 
to toss the potatoes ; helps to make them floury. 



146 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

TO STRENGTHEN CLOTHES-PINS. 

Put new clothes-pins into a pan of cold water, allow them 
to boil five minutes; this toughens them and prolongs their use- 
fulness. 



POWDERED SUGAR. 

If powdered sugar gets lumpy and hard, run it through 
the meat chopper. 



ON WASH DAY. 

It is pleasant to put a few small pieces of orris-root in the 
bottom of the boiler; the delicate odor permeates not only the 
clothing, but does away with the disagreeable odor of soap- 
suds throughout the house. 



TO WASH CHAMOIS GLOVES SUCCESSFULLY. 

Put the gloves on and have a basin of hot water ready. Take 
white soap and wash hands thoroughly; if finger tips and seams 
are very much soiled use a small brush. Throw away first water 
and repeat — using plenty of soap. Rinse in third water, still 
using soap — leave soap in — this makes them soft and pliable. 



TO PREVENT THINGS BOILING OVER. 

Butter the top of saucepans on the inside. 



TO KEEP CAKE FRESH. 

Put a few slices of bread in the cake box. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 147 

MARKS ON POLISHED WOOD. 

Can be removed by rubbing with paraffin. This will remove the 
white marks made by hot dishes, and it may then be polished 
with beeswax and turpentine, or furniture polish. 



TO CLEANSE FLAT SILVERWARE QUICKLY. 

Place knives, forks and spoons in dish pan, pour over suffi- 
cient cold water to cover well. Add to this half a cup of good 
soap powder made into a paste, moistened with ammonia. Let 
this boil five minutes. Rinse thoroughly with hot water, wipe dry 
and polish with chamois or silverette cloth. 



FOR BURNS. 



For Burns. — Apply a mixture of equal parts of lime water 
and linseed oil. 



TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

To Clean Marble. — Two ounces common soda, one ounce 
of powdered pumice stone, one ounce of finely powdered chalk. 
Sift and mix with water. Rub over the marble, and wash oflf 
with soap and water. 



FOR INSECT BITES. 

For Insect Bites. — Apply strongest ammonia water at once. 
Do not scratch as the finger nails poison the flesh. To prevent 
insects from biting, bathe hands and face with lavender oil, not 
the essence. 



148 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

FOR THICKENING. 

Use potato flour in preference to any other. 



FOR A WOUND. 



For a Wound. — Smoke with burning wool or woolen cloth. 
Twenty minutes in the smoke of wool will take pain out of the 
worst case of inflammation from any wound. 



FOR WHOOPING COUGH. 

For Whooping Cough. — Raymond's Pectoral Plaster; use 
according to directions, and apply steadily for a few weeks. 



TO CLEAN PLASTER CASTS. 

To Clean Plaster Casts. — Dip them into thick, cold, liquid 
starch ; when dry the starch is brushed off, and the dirt will come 
off with it. 



HAVE YOU EVER HEARD OF KOSHER SOAP? 

By using fat from "Kosher" meat and following receipt on 
package of Babbits' Potash, one can make excellent soap to be 
used for *'fleischig" dishes and other purposes. 

This has been done with excellent results for many years. — 

Mrs. Jacob Morse. 

Bread and cake mixers, which may be purchased in all stores 
dealing in kitchen furnishings, are highly recommended. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 149 

AMMONIA USES- 

Ammonia and warm water cleanses hair bruslies and combs. 

Ammonia in dish water brightens silver and also keeps flan- 
nels soft. 

Equal parts of ammonia and turpentine will remove paint 
from clothing even if it is hard and dry. Saturate as often as 
necessary; then wash out with soap suds. 

Yellow stains from sewing machine oil on white goods can 
be removed by rubbing the spot with ammonia before washing 
with soap. 



TO REMOVE STAINS* 

Kingsbery's Iron Rust Eradicator, which may be obtained 
at the Jordan Marsh Company's store, will positively remove iron 
rust, coffee, chocolate, tea, fruit, wine, and many kinds of ink 
stains from cotton and linen goods in fifteen seconds without 
the slightest injury to the fabric if the directions on the bottle 
are strictly followed. 



PRESERVATION OF FISH. 

To preserve fish in very hot weather, cover with a little 
vinegar. Often improves the flavor of the fish even in cold 
weather, and makes flesh firm. 



KEROSENE USES* 

Kerosene will remove rust from bolts and bars. 

Kerosene is useful in cleansing many things, as for example 
the following : — enamelled bath tubs, white paint, painted walls or 
windows, when added to lukewarm water. 



I50 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

TO KEEP APPLES IN WINTER. 

To keep apples through the winter, select sound ones only, 
and cover with shelled corn. Does not injure the com. 



INSECT EXTERMINATION. 

Roaches and ants, etc., may be exterminated from houses 
by applying for aid to the Columbian Insecticide Company. 



ABOUT SOME GREAT PHYSICIANS. 

Here are the names of some of the greatest physicians the 
world has ever known, yet taken so little notice of; I will pre- 
sent them to you, so that all may become well acquainted with 
them, and follow their advice freely: 
Dr. Fresh Air: — Always welcome him to your home. 
Dr. Life-food: — Fresh water, fruit and nuts. 
Dr. Cleanliness: — Of thought, word and deed. 
Dr. Work: — Not drudgery, but with joy at being able to do it. 
Dr. Rest : — By lying flat on your back, relaxing all the muscles, 

and taking deep inhalations of air frequently. 
Dr. Exercise: — With cheerfulness, and uplifting thoughts for 

companions. 
Dr. Mind: — Seeing the best of everything in every one. 
Dr. Happiness: — In living by the "Golden Rule." 
Dr. Hope : — With hope, love and charity toward all. 
Dr. Calmness: — For in calmness lie strength and power. 
Dr. Love: — **Love your neighbor as yourself." 
Dr. Courage: — When the "seeming" misfortunes of life beset 

you, rise above them. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 151 

Cleanliness prevents rust, and a clean machine lasts longest. 

Frugality, sobriety and a little wisdom are surely the best 
elixirs for longevity. 

Rise early, retire early, fill your days with honest work and 
usefulness to bring happiness. 

Too much sleep enfeebles, too little makes one irritable, but 
sufficient sleep repairs the waste, as well as renewing health and 
strength. 

THE ENGLISH OF THEM. 

Aspic — A jelly made from stock. 

Blanch — To scald vegetables or nuts to remove the skins. 

Blanquette — A white meat warmed in a white sauce and thick- 
ened with eggs. 

Braise — To cook meat in a covered pan, with heat applied from 
beneath and above. 

Cannelon — Meat highly seasoned and baked in a roll. 

Compote — Fruit stewed in syrup. 

A la Creole — With tomato and hot flavoring. 

Glace — Covered with icing. 

Gla^e — Stock boiled down to a paste. 

Gratins — Served in a rich sauce. 

Macerdoine — A salad of mixed vegetables or a jelly of fruits. 

Marinote — Mix with a French dressing. 

Potage — ^A soup. 

Puree — A thick liquid pressed through a sieve. 

Ragout — A highly seasoned stew. 

Rechauffee — Warmed over. 

Roux — A thickening made of flour and butter. 

Salmi — A stew or hash. 

Saute — To fry brown in a little fat. 

Souffle — A light puflfed-up pudding, or omelet. 



UNCOOKED 
FOODS 

contain all the natural, vital en- 
ergy infused by the life-giving sun 
and air. Cooking is a burning 
process, which devitalizes foods 
and makes them inorganic sub- 
stances, which it is impossible 
for the human body to digest 
and assimilate. They thus be- 
come irritants, over-working and 
weakening the vital organs, caus- 
ing nervous breakdown and con- 
gestion of the blood. 

Christian's Natural Foods retain the full amount of life- 
giving power, are easily digested and deliciously palatable. 
These foods are prepared from the most nutritious of Nature's 
products — the nuts, fruits and cereals — and are as perfect foods 
for man as it is possible to secure. 

They cure digestive troubles and maintain one's normal 
health, strength and weight when used properly. These food 
preparations are on sale in Boston at Oilman's Specialty Food 
Shop, 205 Tremont St., and at the Henry Siegel Co., Washing- 
ton St. Try them. 

Write for literature and samples of these foods and for information in 
regard to my special course of dietetic treatment. 




EUGENE CHRISTIAN, Food Scientist, 

SUITE 24, 
7 EAST 41st STREET. NEW YORK CITY. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 153 



SUPPLEMENT OF 

UNCOOKED FOODS. 



A FEW SELECTED RECEIPTS. 
From 

"UNCOOKED FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM/* 

By Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Christian. 

We may live without poetry, music and art, 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books. 
And civilized man can live without cooks. 

Apologies to Owen Meredith. 

The receipts given here prove that there is a far vv^ider scope 
for variety and display than most people would suppose. They 
are the results of long, careful and tedious experimenting. They 
are offered as a help to those who desire to take up the new 
or natural method of living, and as given here are regarded as 
little more than suggestions. 

We sincerely hope that those who deem it worth their while 
to give any thought to the kind of material out of which they 
build their bodies and brain, will take up this great work and 
carry it on to higher and higher degrees of development. 

- Most important in this connection is thorough mastication, 
which develops in all uncooked or natural foods, a new and de- 
licious taste. 



154 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

One white turnip, a little cabbage, one carrot, few pieces 
of celery, one very small onion, salt, milk. Chop fine or grind 
all vegetables. Barely cover with warm water, and allow them 
to stand three or four hours to soften. Add one and one-half 
pints of rich warm milk, thickened with a little flaked wheat, 
add butter and serve. This will serve five or six people. To 
this can be added stiffly beaten whites of two eggs just before 
serving. Will be an improvement. 



VEGETABLES. 



Vegetables occupy a very important place in the elementary 
food menu. They contain elements that cannot be secured else- 
where. No meal is complete without some greens. 



CHRISTIANAS COMBINATION CEREAL. 

This is a combination of several cereals, especially prepared 
and so proportioned as to level or balance all the nutritive ele- 
ments contained in grain. It may be soaked in either warm 
milk or water half an hour, and eaten with either cream, olive 
oil or honey, is a most dehcious dish. 



CEREALS. 

The popular belief is that cereals cannot be eaten without 
cooking. The common theory that the stomach is unable to 
digest uncooked cereal starch is altogether wrong, as can be 
easily demonstrated by anyone who will thoroughly masticate 
the uncooked cereal. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 155 

COLD SLAW. 

There is nothing more delicious or necessary than shredded 
cabbage, usually called cold slaw. It possesses valuable food 
properties, occupying the same place in human diet that hay 
does in the horse or cow. 



EGGS. 

Eggs form a very important article of food. Their heat 
producing power, and nutritive values are well balanced. An 
t^gg should never be cooked. In its natural state it is easily 
dissolved and readily taken up by all the organs of digestion, but 
the cooked tgg must be brought back to liquid form before it 
can be digested, which puts extra and unnecessary labor upon 
these over-worked organs. 



ORANGE EGG. 



Separate the white and yolk of one tgg, whipping the white 
to a stiff froth, and the yolk until thick and creamy. Add slowly 
to the yolk the juice of one sweet orange, whipping continuously, 
then add the beaten white, whipping all to a creamy froth. Serve 
as an egg-nog. 



SANDWICH. 

Lettuce and Cheese. 

Spread Christian's unfired bread thickly with fresh Phila- 
delphia cream cheese and lay on this a crisp lettuce-leaf that 
has been previously dipped in salad dressing. Place where it 
will keep cool until it is ready to serve. 



156 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

SALADS. 

In living upon natural foods, vegetable salads become abso- 
lutely necessary. The elementary bill of fare cannot be balanced 
without a certain per cent, of chlorophyll, which is only obtain- 
able in green plants. 

All green vegetables are also rich in organic mineral salts, 
which is one of the most necessary articles in vegetable nutrition. 



GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Lettuce and Grape Fruit. 

Remove the seeds, and the center also of grape fruit with 
a sharp knife. Cut the edible portion into small bits, and serve 
on lettuce-leaf with salad dressing. Makes a very dainty dish. 



SALAD DRESSING. 



The objection to nearly all salad dressings is that they con- 
tain either vinegar or chemical acids. These condiments set up 
immediate fermentation when mixed with cereal starch, which 
is contained in bread, and other cereal foods eaten at the same 
time, and hyperpepsia (sour stomach) is the result. 



HYGEIA SALAD DRESSING. 

Two eggs, one cupful whipped cream, one-half lemon, sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls olive oil, salt. To the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten very stiff, add the oil and the juice of the lemon very 
slowly, beating hard all the time, until it has all been added, 
and is quite thick. Then add the whites of the eggs, beaten 
stiff, salt and sugar to taste, and last of all, one cupful of whipped 
cream; whip all together until very stiff, and set on ice until 
ready to serve. When this dressing is to be served for vege- 
tables, omit the sugar. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 157 

FRUIT AND FRUIT DISHES. 

Fruits are the bouquet of all edible things. They are to 
the table what color is to the landscape. Aside from their nu- 
tritive value, they satisfy the vision, and appeal to all who love 
the beautiful, and seem to invite us to bite them, and thus judge 
of their merits. 



FRUIT MEDLEY. 



Cut a hole in the stem end of an orange large enough to 
admit of a teaspoon; after the inside of the orange has been 
taken out, fill the orange with small bits of pineapple, banana, 
orange, apple and raisins. Before serving, add grape or fruit 
juice of any kind poured over it. This will be an improvement. 
Sugar may be added if desired. 



APPLES. 



The acid of apples is among the most healthful of sub- 
stances taken into the human stomach. They are especially valu- 
able for that class who work with the brain. 



NUTS. 

Nuts, as measured by their chemical food values, are the 
natural substitute for meats, not to mention their superiority as 
regards purity and cleanliness. They may constitute a part of 
every elementary meal. 

The preparation of nuts requires no receipts. They com- 
pose, however, a part of many dishes, into which they are put 
in some form, owing to their delicious flavor when mixed with 
other foods and their great nutritive value. 



DUST IS GERM LADEN 

Get after it with a 

"6-B" Dustless Dustcloth 

AND A 

"B-S" Dustless Floor Mop 

For Sale by all Department, Hardware, 

Drug, Dry Goods, Kitchen Furnishing 

and Stationery Stores 

Milton Chemical Co. 

Milton, Mass. 

ALVIN E. BERRY 

PURE MILK and CREAM 

Direct from the Farm 

Ellison Road, Waltham, Mass. 

'Phone, Waltham 454-1 



COMPLIMENTS OF 



Mrs. Oscar J. Saxe 



Established 1873 



E. VAN NOORDEN COMPANY 

Sheet Metal WorK. 

For buildings 

Skylights, Metal Window Sashes and 

Frames, Gutters, Cornices, 

Bay Windows, Etc. 

944-952 Massachusetts Ave., Boston 

Telephone Connecrion Cor. Bumham St. 



We Weave RUGS From 
Your Worn and discard- 
ed Carpets - Circular- 

No Agents 

BELGRADE RUG C^ 

32 HoUiaSt-Bosion 



Wishing you much Success 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 159 

FOR BLANCHING ALMONDS. 

Soak almonds over night, or seven or eight hours, in fresh 
cold water. The skin can be easily removed, and they will have 
become very crisp and edible. The old method of blanching 
almonds has always been to immerse them in boiHng water, 
which cooks and toughens the nut, making it very difficult both 
of mastication and digestion. 



FIG AND NUT CAKE. 

Nuts, Figs, Dates and Cocoanuts. 

Make a layer each of ground figs, grated protoid nuts, dates 
cut in halves, with stones removed, and grated cocoanut. Con- 
tinue forming these layers until the cake is of the desired thick- 
ness, finishing with the cocoanut; garnish with crystallized 
cherries and nut meats. 



GRAPE FRAPPE. 



Jelly powder, three eggs, grape juice, whipped cream. Dis- 
solve one package of lemon jelly powder in one-half pint of hot 
water, and when it is dissolved, add one-half pint of grape juice, 
and mix thoroughly. Stand it aside to cool. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the jelly begins to thicken 
add it gradually to the beaten whites, beating continually. When 
it is stiff enough to hold its shape, put it in a mold and set it 
on ice again. Serve with whipped cream. 



JELLY. 

On account of its purity and simplicity in preparation we 
recommend a jelly powder known as "Bro-man-gel-on." 



i6o THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

CLABBER. 

Clabber is nothing more than milk which has soured and 
turned or thickened until it is of the consistency of baked custard. 
It should then be set on ice or in a cool place, and not sent to 
the table until ready to serve. Some individuals prefer this as 
a relish just as it is, but most people use sugar, cream and grated 
nutmeg. The milk may be put in a glass bowl before it turns. 
As used as an article of diet, however, better results will be 
obtained by using the clabber without sweetening or flavoring. 



ICE CREAM, MAPLE MOUSSE. 

Ice Cream. 

If one gallon is to be made use two quarts of pure cream, 
one quart of unskimmed milk, and one quart crushed fruit of any 
kind; sweeten and flavor to taste. First pack freezer with ice 
and salt, then pour the cream, milk and sugar into a gallon recep- 
tacle, and stir the mixture until the sugar is dissolved. Pour 
this into the freezer, adding the crushed fruit last of all, to 
avoid curdling. To make good pure ice cream, use only rich 
milk and pure cream in about equal proportions. 



MAPLE MOUSSE. 

Double or thick cream, maple syrup. After mixing one pint 
of thick cream with one cupful of maple syrup, beat with a rotary 
egg-beater until the mixture is thick enough, so that you can 
turn the bowl (in which it was beaten) over with safety. Then 
turn it into a chilled mold, filling it to the brim. Cover it with 
a sheet of parafline paper, pressing the cover of the mold into 
place firmly, over the paper. Chill for three or four hours, by 
packing closely in equal measures of crushed ice and salt. 



THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. i6i 

GRAPE FRUIT. 

This fruit possesses great medicinal value, and is gaining 
in popularity yearly. Better results are gained by eating it 
without sugar, as it is undoubtedly one of the best liver tonics 
in the fruit kingdom. 



SORBETS. 



Sorbets are simply sherbets half frozen, and they are gener- 
ally served in suitable glasses after the second course of a dinner. 
They are frozen without beating, and with little stirring, and the 
result is a rough icy substance. Any kind of fruit juice may be 
used for these, or several mixed. 



This is our store, 
We have no more, 
We heartily do give it, — 
Our book is spun, 
Our work is done, 
And so we think to leave it. 
(With apologies to John Secombe, 1708) 

The Compilers. 



ERRATA. 
The address in the advertisement of Mr. H. L. Gideon, 
should read 40 Irving Street, Cambridge. 



i62 THE UNIVERSAL COOK BOOK. 

A MEATLESS DINNER. 

"I have not partaken of a fellow creature for fifteen years." 

— Bernard Shaw. 



MENU. 

From the following menu given some idea can be formed 
as to the order in which an elementary meal should be served. 
The highest object to be attained in the preparation of a single 
meal, or meals, for an entire day or week is a perfectly balanced 
bill of fare; that is, to serve such foods as will furnish to the 
body all the elements of nutrition in the right proportions. 

Breakfast. 

Apples 

Protoid nuts Filberts 

Turkish pulled figs with cream 

Luncheon. 
Pecans OHves 

Vegetable salad with Hygeia dressing. 

Unfired bread Sweet butter 

Evaporated peaches and cream 

Milk 

Sweet butter Unfired bread 

Dinner. 

Oranges Apples 

Pecans Protoid nuts 

Ripe olives Lettuce 

Flaked oats, dates and cream 

Fruit salad Egg-nog 



CONTENTS. 



Beverages 129 

Bread 65 

Cake: 84 

Coffee Cake .... 94 

TORTE 96 

Icing for 99 

Cookies and Smai^i, Cake 101 

Chafing Dish 40 

Confectionery .... 120 

c0nvai.escents .... 137 

Decorations for Tabi,e . 136 
Deserts : 

Frozen Ill 

Fruit 114 

Dressings 61 

Dumpi^ings 11 

Bggs 42 

En Casserole 32 

Kntrees .36 

Fish and Oysters ... 15 

Fruit and Fruit Dishes . 157 

HORS D'Oeuvre .... 5 



Household Hints ... 141 
Husband,— TO cook a . . 143 
Ice Cream and Sherbert 108 

Jellies ng 

Meats 27 

Passover Dishes .... 132 

Physicians 150 

Pies 69 

Pickled Relishes ... 125 

Poultry 31 

Preserves and Marmalades 116 

Puddings 74 

Salads 54 

Sandwiches 63 

Sauces 23 

Soups 7 

Time Table .... 45-46-85 
Toast, Wafers and Muffins 68 
Translation of Terms Used 151 
Uncooked Foods .... 153 
Vegetables 45 



BEWARE OF IMITATIONS 

DRINK ONLY THE PUREST — FINE OLD 

KY. TAYLOR 

A PERFECT BLEND 

Absolute Purity Unquestionable Superiority Highest Quality 

Sold everywhere at $1.00 per fall honest quart bottle 

WRIGHT & TAYLOR, Distillers, Louisville, Ky. 

R. H. HIRSHFIELD, N. E. Agent 

Tel.. Hay. 114 and 115 1 WashingtOll St., BostOll 

©ET THE GENUIME 



M. Rosenfeld 

Importer and Jobber 

Foreign and Domestic 

Cheese and Fancy Groceries 

67 Fulton Street 
Boston, Mass. 

TELEPHONE, BROOKLINE SS3-4 

PERCY FALKENBERG 

ELECTRICIAN 

AND EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL 

84 Coolldge St., Brookllne, Mass. 



H. H. SMITH 

PRACTICAL PLUMBER 
GAS and STEAM FITTER 

262 Harvard Street 

Coolidge Corner, Brookline, Mass. 



F. H. Young Company 

346 CONGRESS ST. 
BOSTON. - MASS. 

Manufacturers and 
Exporters of 

SHOE OR^ESSINGS 







ISSUED BY 



;3natnn gfrttmt 
Gottnrtl of J^PtutsIr Qlnmen 



