
COMPILED BY 



3auijlfti>rs of tl|e tKtttg 



gtujlta Aoetutr (Ehrisliati (Chwrrh 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



tn 





To al! who have so kindly contributed 
to the success of this little book, by their 
patronage, financial aid, and recipes, we 
extend thanks. 



Magnolia (Hook look 



Compiled by 

b,f Saunters of tfje King >. 

of the 

IHagnolta Au^nup CljriBttan 



Ollass 



Cor. 25th St. 
and Magnolia Ave. 




, QIaltfnrnta 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



Table of Weights and Measures 



One pint of liquid 

Two cups granulated sugar 

Two and one-half cups powered sugar - 

Four cups of flour one quart 

Two heaped cups of butter 

One table-spoon butter 

Two table-spoons flour - 

Butter size of an egg 

Four table-spoons 

Two wineglasses 

Four gills 

Two pints 

Four'quarts 



one pound 

one pound 

one pound 

or one pound 

one pound 

one ounce 

one ounce 

two ounces 

one wineglass 

one gill 

one pint 

one quart 

one gallon 



"What shall I have for dinner? 

What shall I have for tea? 
An omelet, a chop or two, 

Or a savory fricasee? 
Dear! How I wish that Nature 

When she made her mighty plan, 
Hadn't given the task to woman 

To care for hungry man." 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



Time Table for Cooking 

BAKING BREAD, CAKES AND PUDDINGS. 



Loaf bread 40 to 60 m. 

Rolls, Biscuit 10 to 20 m. 

Graham gems 20 m. 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 m. 

Sponge-cake 45 to 60 m. 

Plain cake 30 to 40 m. 

Fruit cake 2 to 3 hrs. 

Cookies 10 to 15 m. 

Bread pudding 1 hr. 

Rice and Tapioca 1 hr. 



Indian pudding 2 to 3 hrs. 

Plum pudding 2 to 3 hrs. 

Custards 15 to 20 m. 

Steamed brown-bread.. 3 hrs. 

Steamed puddings I to 3 hrs. 

Pie-crust about 30 m. 

Potatoes 30 to 45 m. 

Baked beans 6 to 8 hrs. 

Braised meat 3 to 4 hrs. 

Scalloped dishes 15 to 20 m. 



BAKING MEATS. 



Beef, sirloin, rare, per 

Ib 8 to 10 m. 

Beef, sirloin, well done 

per Ib 12 to 15 m. 

Beef, rolled rib or 

rump, per Ib 12 to 15 m. 

Beef, long or short 

fillet 20 to 30 m. 

Mutton, rare, per Ib.... 10m. 

Mutton, well done, per 

Ib 15 m. 

Lamb, well done, per Ib. 15 m. 

Veal, well done, per Ib. 20 m. 

Pork, well done, per Ib. . 30 m. 



Turkey, 10 Ibs. wt 3 hrs. 

Chickens, 3 to 4 Ibs. wt.l to 1% hrs. 

Goose, 8 Ibs 2 hrs. 

Tame duck 40 to 60 m. 

Game duck 30 to 40 m. 

Grouse, Pigeons 30 m. 

Small birds 15 to 20 m. 

Venison, per Ib 15 m. 

Fish, 6 to 8 Ibs.; long, 

thin fish 1 hr. 

Fish, 4 to 6 Ibs.; thick 

Halibut 1 hr. 

Fish, small 20 to 30 m. 



BOILING. 



Oatmeal, rolled 30 m. 

coarse, steamed 3 hrs. 

Rice, steamed 45 to 60 m. 

Rice, boiled 15 to 20 m. 

Wheat Granules 20 to 30 m. 

Eggs, soft boiled 3 to 6m. 

Eggs, hard boiled 15 to 20 m. 

Fish, long, whole, per 

Ib 6 to 10 m. 

Fish, cubical, per Ib. 15m. 

Clams, Oysters 3 to 5m. 

Beef, corned and a la 

mode 3 to 5 hrs. 

Veal. Mutton 2 to 3 hrs. 

Tongue 3 to 4 hrs. 

Ham 5 hrs. 



.20 lo 30 in. 



Sweetbreads .... 

Asparagus, Tomatoes, 

Peas 15 to 20 m. 

Macaroni, Potatoes, 
Spinach, Squash, 
Celery, Cauliflower, 
Greens 20 to 30 m. 

Cabbage, Eeets. young. 30 to 45 m. 

Parsnips, Turnips 30 to 45 m. 

Carrots, Onions, Sal- 
sify 30 to 60 m. 

Beans, String and 

Shelled 1 to 2 hrs. 

Puddings, 1 qt., stmd. . 3 hrs. 

Puddings, small 1 hr. 



BROILING. 



Steak, 

Steak, 

inch 

Small, 

s 





one inch thick. . 
one and a half 

thick 

thin fish 5 to 



4 m. 



G m. 
8 m. 



Thick fish 12 to 15 m. 

^hono tiroil?d in paper. 8 to 10 m. 

Chickens 20 m. 

Liver, Tripe, Bacon.... 3 to 8m. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



JINGLES FOR THE COOK. 

"Mind the clock and we shall feel 

Quite refreshed from every meal. 

But if meats are late and hurried 

Every one feels cross and' worried. 

Cooking is an art they say, 

But for some it is but play. 

So we'll sing a merry rhyme 

And get our cooking done on time. 

On bread the staff of life we feed; 

To make it light we have to knead. 

Lobster sauce just fits your salmon; 

And mint sauce goes your roast lamb on; 

Few make it right, how few, alas, 

But, oh! 'tis good egg sauce with bass. 

Your oysters roll in cracker dust, 

And fry till brown this cracker crust. 

But when the stew or soup you make 

Be sure you milk, not water, take. 

Just shut your eyes to put in butter; 

The size might make your conscience flutter. 

Roast turkey few we'd have to tell 

How good it is with cranberry jell. 

Veal cutlets fry till crisp frogs legs, 

If you a luscious dish would make. 

Put honey on your buckwheat cakes. 

When beans are taken from the pot 

Let brown bread follow, piping hot. 

When beef you roast, have one spot rare; 

'Tis easy done if watched with care. 

At ev'ry meal in ev'ry place 

Let kindest smile be on your face. 

The humblest dish we'll find is nice 

If love is freely used for spice." 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



"Give us this day our daily bread." 

Hygienic Bread. 

Mix together the flour of love, made from the whole 
kernel (giving the all-inclusive flavor and quality), the 
leaven of spirit, the salt of common sense, the water of 
life appreciated. Let this rise in the encouraging at- 
mosphere of patience. Knead and mold in the silence. 
Butter with cheerfulness and serve to the entire family. 

Compressed Yeast Bread. 

Use for 2 loaves of bread. 3 quarts of sifted flour, 
nearly a quart of warm water, a level lablespoon of 
salt, and an ounce of compressed yeast. Dissolve the 
yeast in a pint of lukewarm water, then stir into if 
enough flour to make a thick batter. Cover the bowl 
containing the batter, or sponge, and set in a warm 
place to rise. Now stir into this sponge the salt dis- 
solved in a little warm water, add the rest of the flour 
and sufficient warm water to make the dough stiff 
enough to knead; knead it from 5 to 10 minutes, and 
let raise again. When light divide into loaves, knead 



8 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

into shape and put into greased baking tins; cover 
with a doubled thick cloth, set in a warm place again 
and when twice their height put in oven and bake. 
The dough should rise and begin to brown after about 
15 minutes, but only slightly. Bake from 50 to 60 
minutes and have it brown all over when well baked. 

Baking Powder Bread. 

Good for invalids. Three cups whole wheat flour, 1 
cup white flour, 4 rounding teaspoons baking powder, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 l / cups sweet 
milk. Have batter thick enough to spoon, put in 
greased pans, cover and let raise 1/2 hour. Bake 1 or 
more hours in slow oven. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

Two cups corn meal, 1 cup graham flour, I cup white 
flour, 1 cup molasses, 3 cups warm water, 3 level tea- 
spoonfuls soda, 1 level teaspoonful salt. Mixture very 
thin ; pour into 3 1-lb. cans and steam 1 hour. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups graham flour, 2 cups corn meal, y z cup 
molasses, 2 cups sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt. Steam 2y 2 hours. 

Mrs. O. Stewart. 

Brown Bread. 

Three coups of graham flour, 1 cup sour milk. 1 tea- 
spoonful soda. 1 cup sorghum and a little salt. Steam 
3 hours, then bake fifteen minutes. Excellent and eco- 
nomical. Try it. 

Mrs. Fielding. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



Sweetened Brown Bread. 

One egg, l /2 cup sugar, y 2 cup melted shortening, 
11/0 cups sour milk, y 2 teaspoonful salt, 1 level tea- 
spoonful soda, dissolved in hot water, iy 2 cups graham 
flour, % cup white flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful baking 
powder. Bake in loaf in slow oven 1 hour. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Corn Bread. 

One and a half cups corn meal, 2 level teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, y 2 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, % cup white 
flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt, 1 egg, 1 heaping tablespoon 
lard. Beat egg and sugar together, sift meal, flour 
and salt, mix in lard, then add milk and bake. 

Mrs. Burford. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

One cup sour milk, 1 cup molasses, l 1 /^ cups graham 
flour, 1 egg, 1 heaping teaspoon soda dissolved in hot 
water, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup corn meal, 2-3 cup 
white flour, 1 small teaspoon salt. Mix milk, eggs and 
molasses, add salt and soda. Mix flour, corn meal and 
graham together in another dish and add to first mix- 
ture slowly, stirring thoroughly. Steam 2 hours and 
bake y 2 or % hour. Use large cup. 

Mrs. J. I. Countryman. 

Nut Bread. 

Four cups of flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup milk, 1 cup 
sugar, 6 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup of English 
walnut meats, 2 eggs. Chop nut meats into small pieces 
and mix with dry ingredients. Add milk and well beaten 
eggs; put in 2 buttered bread pans and let stand 20 
minutes; then bake as any raised bread. This recipe 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



makes 2 loaves. A part of the dough baked in gem 
pans is very desirable. This recipe will make 1 loaf 
and fill 9 or 10 gem pans. Either white or entire wheat 
flour can be used and found very nourishing. 

Mrs. M. V. Stickney. 

Nut Bread. 

One egg, 1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 2-3 cup nuts ..(be- 
fore chopping), a cupful flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Beat egg very light, add nut meats, sugar, 
flour and baking powder together. Let all stand in a 
greased pan 20 minutes. Then bake in moderate oven 
% to 1 hour. Covering the pan the first fifteen minutes, 
makes the bread shiny. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 

Nut Bread. 

Two cups milk, 1 egg well beaten, 1 cup sugar, 1 
cup chopped English walnuts, 4 cups sifted flour, 4 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Mix well in 
order given, putting baking powder and salt into flour. 
This makes two loaves. Bake % hour. 

Mrs. G. A. Retter. 

Graham Nut Bread. 

Two cups graham flour, 2 cups white flour. 2-3 cup 
molasses, 1% cups sour milk, y teaspoon salt, 1 round- 
ing teaspoon soda, 1 cup walnuts. Bake 45 minutes 
in slow oven. 

Mrs. Morton Tyrrell. 

Nut Loaf. 

Two cups sour milk, y 2 cup sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 
2 small teaspoons melted lard, 4 cups graham flour. 1 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK II 

cup English walnuts, chopped. Bake forty minutes in 
slow oven. This makes one large and one small loaf. 

Mrs. F. H. Jenness. 

Sandwich Bread. 

Three-quarters cup sugar, 2 cups sweet milk, 4 cups 
flour, 1 cup ground, walnuts, 2 eggs, l /2 teaspoon salt, 
4 tablespoons baking powder. Mix well. Raise 20 
minutes. Bake 1 hour. This is good with butter or 
peanut butter. 

Mrs. C. F. W. Palmer. 

Coffee Bread. 

One coffee cup bread yeast, 1 cup sugar, pinch of 
salt, 1 small pint sweet milk heated- a little, %. cup 
butter. Flour for soft dough. Set this at night. In 
the morning put in the pans to raise. Put melted but- 
ter, sugar and cinnamon on each cake. Bake about 20 
minutes. Sprinkle with sugar after baked. Will make 
about four good sized cakes. 

Mrs. Countryman. 

Egg Corn Bread. 

One cup corn meal, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder, sifted 
together, and add 1 cup sour milk and 1 egg. Beat 
thoroughly and bake in a buttered and floured pan. 

Mrs. McKnight. 

Corn Cake. 

Half cup corn meal, 1 cup milk ; scald milk and pour 
on corn meal. When cool add i/2 teaspoon salt, 1 tea- 
spoon sugar, 1 tablespoon melted butter and yolks of 
2 eggs, lastly the whites beaten stiff. Bake 1/2 hour 
in slow oven. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. 



12 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Bran Bread. 

Two cups bran, 1 cup whole wheat, 1% cups sweet 
milk, 1 tablespoon New Orleans molasses, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, % teaspoon soda, % teaspoon salt. 
Bake % of an hour. 

Dr. Mary J. Green. 

Hot Breads 

Parker House Rolls. 

Three pints flour. 1 large tablespoon lard. Rub into 
flour with teaspoon salt. Then scald generous pint of 
milk with a small ^ cup of sugar, 2-3 cake of com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in % cup water. Add to 
milk when it is luke warm. Make a hole in flour and 
pour into it this mixture. Do this early in even in er 
and let stand till bedtime, stir down and let rise till 
morning. Then stir down again and let rise once more ; 
then put on board and roll about half an inch thick. 
Cut with biscuit cutter, spread with melted butter, fold 
over. Let rise till light, then bake. 

N. 

French Rolls. 

Two eggs beaten lightly; mix with them !/2 pint 
water, with 1 yeast cake, 1 desert spoon of sugar, 1 
tablespoon salt, enough flour to make consistency of 
waffles. Make early in the morning, let stand until 
light, when light stir in enough flour to make dough 
and one tablespoon lard. Let rise again, when light 
roll and cut with biscuit cutter, lap over and put 
butter between. Let rise and then bake. 

Mrs. Carrie Smyer. 

Spanish Buns. 

^rearo toother a /4 cup butter, 1 cup C sugar and 
yolks of 3 eggs. Then add % cup cold water, 1 cup 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon allspice, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 cup raisins. 

Cora U. Colt. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 13 

Spanish Bun. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons cloves, 5 teaspoons 
cinnamon, 1 cup milk, % cup butter. Cream butter, 
add sugar and beat till light (sift flour, baking powder 
and spices together), add eggs well beaten, then milk, 
lastly the flour. Icing : AVhites of 3 eggs, beaten very 
light, then add 1% cup granulated sugar, spread on 
cake while hot and return to oven to brown. 

Miss Hanvey. 

Fruit Rolls. 

Sift together 1 pint of flour, 2 slightly rounding tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, ^2 teaspoonful of salt. 
and 2 rounding tablespoonfuls of sugar. Add to these 
2 rounding tablespoonfuls of butter, rub together un- 
til thoroughly mixed. Beat 1 egg. add to it V 2 cup 
of milk, mix with dry materials, knead lightly until a 
smooth dough, no longer. Roll out about 1-3 of an 
inch thick. Spreak butter carefully over the dough. 
Sprinkle sugar and a dusting of cinnamon over this 
and lastly ^ cup of raisins, chopped, a little finely 
chopped citron and % cup chopped walnuts. Roll from 
you into a compact roll, cut into slices half an inch 
thick. Place close together in pan. brush over with 
melted butter and bake in moderate oven 15 minutes. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Cottonseed Flour Biscuit. 

One cup cottonseed flour, 1 cup wheat flour, 1 level 
teaspoon soda. 2 level teaspoons baking powder, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons lard, % cup butter- 
milk. Sift dry ingredients together. Cut in lard 
with a knife. Add milk slowly. Turn out on a floured 
board. Knead slightly. Roll out % inch thick. Cut 
with floured cutter. 

Note If it is not convenient to use sour milk, sweet 
milk may be used by using 4 teaspoons baking powder 
instead of both soda and baking powder. Cottonseed 



14 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

flour is six times as nutritious as wheat flour and is 
good for all gastric troubles. 

Ola Thompson. 

Corn Meal Biscuits. 

One and a quarter cups flour, % cup corn meal. 4 
teaspoons baking powder, l / 2 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, 1/2 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, 3 /4 cup 
milk. Mix like biscuits. 

Mrs. Hege. 

Cream Date Biscuits. 

Two cups flour, 1 cup sweet cream, i/o teaspoonful 
salt (scant'). 1 rounding teaspoonful baking powder. 
Mix well, roll out thin and cut with biscuit cutter: 
now place a seeded date on half the biscuit, then fold 
over the other half and place a date on top : brush over 
the tops with cream and bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Bran Gems. 

Two cups bran, small teaspoon soda, small teaspoon 
baking powder, small teaspoon salt. 1 cup white flour, 
% cup molasses, y cup milk or water. Mix thorough- 
ly and bake in slow oven for 1 hour. 

Mrs. N. O. Anderson. 

Bran Gems. 

Two cups wheat bran, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoonful 
soda, li/2 cups sour milk, *4 CU P shortening. 3 table- 
spoonfuls molasses. 

Ida B. Davison. 

Muffins. 

Two cups sifted flour. 2 slightly rounding teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. i/> teaspoonful of salt. 2 rounding 
tablespoonfuls butter. 2 rounding tablespoonfuls sugar, 
2 eggs, % cup sweet milk. Sift flour, salt, baking 
powder and sugar together, rub butter into them, then 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 15 

add the milk ; add the eggs unbeaten, stir just long 
enough to mix. Bake in gem pans 15 minutes in quick 
oven. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Muffins. 

Two cups flour. 4 teaspoons baking powder, 1/2 tea- 
spoon salt, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 table- 
spoons of melted butter, 1 egg. Sift flour, baking pow- 
der, salt and sugar together. Beat egg, add milk, then 
dry ingredients, adding melted butter last. Bake from 
20 to 25 minutes. 

Muffins. 

One-fourth cup butter, 1/4 cup sugar, 1 egg, pinch 
of salt, % cup milk, 2% cups flour, 3 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Mix in yolk 
of egg, add milk, next sifted flour and baking powder. 
Fold in beaten white. This makes a stiff batter. 

Mrs. S. B. Snydef. 

Muffins. 

Two cups of flour. 1 cup sweet milk. 1 tablespoonf nl 
sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoonful lard. 2 
eg^s, 2 teaspoonfuls- baking powder. 

Mrs. Hanvey. 

Muffins. 

Two cups of flour, 1 cup of sweet milk, 1/4 cup sugar. 
1/2 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 egg. 1 
tablespoon melted butter or cottolene. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. 

Mrs. O. P. Lockhart. 

Muffins. 

One tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 cup of flour, 
1/2 cup of sweet milk. Cream together butter and 
sugar, beat whole egg well and add. Stir in dash of 



16 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

salt, the milk, and then the sifted flour, into which 
the baking powder has been mixed. Beat well, bake 
quickly. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 

..Rice Muffins. 

Two and a quarter cups flour, % cup cooked rice, 
3 teaspoons baking powder, y 2 teaspoon salt, 2 table- 
spoons sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons melted 
butter. Mix flour, salt, baking powder and sngar. 
beat egg well and add y 2 CU P of milk, mixing remainder 
of milk with rice, and add slowly to flour, etc. ; beat 
well and add butter. Bake in gem pans 10 or 12 
minutes. 

Miss Bartlett. 

Buttermilk Waffles. 

One pint flour, */> teaspoon baking powder, 1-3 tea- 
spoon salt. 1 egg well beaten, 1% cups buttermilk into 
which 1/2 teaspoon of soda has been stirred, y 2 table- 
spoon melted butter. Sift the flour, baking powder 
and salt together. Beat the yolk and white of egg 
separately, add the yolk, buttermilk and melted but- 
ter, lastly the white beaten stiff. 

Ida B. Davison. 

Quick Waffles. 

One pint sweet milk, y 2 CU P butter melted, sifted 
flour to make a soft batter; add the beaten yolks of 
three eggs, then the beaten whites, and lastly (just 
before baking), two teaspoons baking powder, beating 
very hard and fast for a few minutes. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 

Wafflles. 

Sift together thoroughly 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder and 1 teaspoon of salt. Add 1 pint of 
milk or enough to make a good batter. Add 1 table- 
spoon melted butter and the yolks of 2 eggs. Add the 
well beaten whites of the 2 eggs last. 

Mrs. White. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 17 



18 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



HOURS 
1 TO 5 



PHONES: F-7371 

WEST 2939 



DR. W. J. JETER 

OSTEOPATHIC PHYSICIAN 



516 O.T. JOHNSON BLDG. 



Los ANGELES 





SANTO 
VACUUM 
CLEANER 


Rented at $2 per 

PAUL L 

Phone 71798 


day Call or phone 

. WILLIAMS 

2632 Raymond Ave. 





The Midway Grocery 



Phone B 3980 
West 2004 



CHAS. MOTTAZ, Prop. 
Dealer in 



TERMS CASH 



Groceries, Fruit, Flour, Feed, Fuel and Vegetables 

Our Coffees and Teas are always the Best 
1273-1275 W. 22nd St. Cor. Willard Ave. 



Bonnie Brae Brand 

Creamery Butter 

Made for 

Benj. Thatcher & Sons 



Butter milK 



PKone S. 02Q8 



THK MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 19 



"All human history attests 

That happiness for man the hungry sinner 

Since Eve ate apples, depends upon his dinner." 

Vegetable Soup. 

Chop coarse and place in 3 quarts of cold water 
the following vegetables : 4 tomatoes, 6 carrots, 1 
small head of cabbage, 4 green peppers, 2 heads of 
celery, 1 small bunch of parsley, 4 medium sized onions, 
% cup of rice and a pinch of thyme, marjoram and 
sage, 1 teaspoon of salt. Let cook slowly for 2 hours, 
then add 4' tablespoons of Japanese sauce, 1 tablespoon 
of butter and l /o pint of cream. Very good. 

Mrs. Frank Tyrrell. 

Tomato Bisque. 

One pint of sweet milk. 1 pint tomatoes strained, but- 
ter, salt and pepper to taste. Heat tomatoes with y 
teaspoon soda, heat milk and butter. Pour boiling to- 
matoes into the hot milk and serve at once. Can be 
thickened with cornstarch if desired. 

Mrs. McKelvey. 

Tomato Bisque. 

Melt 1 tablespoon of butter in saucepan and stir in 
all the flour it will absorb, strain tomatoes through a 
soup strainer, add a pinch of soda and heat. Add 
milk to butter and flour, cook and stir till lumps are 
out. Use y milk and % tomato stock, add milk until 
like a sauce, then add hot stock, season with red pepper 
and salt. 

Mrs. C. W. Cord. 

Tomato Puree. 

Two cups cooked tomato, 2 cups soup stock, 1 teaspoon 



20 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

salt, 2 tablespoons butter, % teaspoon pepper, 1 table- 
spoon flour. Strain soup stock and rub tomatoes 
through seive, let boil and bind with butter and flour, 
season and serve. 

Cream Cauliflower Soup. 

One small head cauliflower, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 
tablespoon flour, 2 cups milk, 1 stalk celery, salt and 
pepper. ( 'ook cauliflower in salted water until tender, 
force through coarse sieve. Melt butter, add flour, 
then milk slowly, add celery finely cut, and salt and 
pepper and cauliflower. Do not let the milk boil. 

Cream Lima Bean Soup. 

One cup dried lima beans, iy 2 pints cold water. 1 
slice onion, 2 slices carrots, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup milk. 
2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons flour, y$ teaspoon 
pepper. Soak beans over night, cook until tender, 
force through sieve. Cook vegetables, which have been 
chopped very fine, in hot butter for 5 minutss, remove 
and add flour, milk and beans, season and serve. 

Amsterdam Soup. 

Clean 1 quart oysters, chop and then parboil, drain 
and to liquor add enough water to make 1 quart liquid. 
Brown 3 tablespoons butter wi+h 3 tablespoons flour, 
then add oyster liquid and simmer i/^ hour. Season 
with salt, paprika and celery salt and just before serv- 
ing add 1 cup cream. 

T. W. C. A. Cooking: School. 

Swiss Soup. 

Two small potatoes, 1 small turnip. 1 pint sr-alded 
milk. !/2 small onion. 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon 
salt. 2 tablespoons flour, % teaspoon pepper. Boil 
potatoes, turnip and onion until soft, rub through sieve. 
add 1 iX-cups boiling water, also scalded milk. Bind 
with butter and flour, season and serve. 

Miss Bartlett. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



Spinach Soup. 

Two quarts spinach. 6 cups cold water, bit of bay 
leaf, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons butter, 3 table- 
spoons flour, 2 cups milk. 1 clove of garlic or 2 table- 
spoons chopped onion, cayenne pepper and celery salt. 
y 2 cup cream. Cook spinach in water 30 minutes. 
Press through a sieve, scald milk with onion and bay 
leaf, add butter and flour cooked together, strain, add 
seasonings and spinach mixture; cook 5 minutes and 
serve. Garnish with beaten cream. 

Mrs. S. B. Snyder. 

Baked Bean Soup. 

Two cups cold baked beans, 2 pints cold water, 2 
slices of onion, 1 cup stewed tomatoes ; let simmer for 
30 minutes, then press through a sieve. Place on stove 
and add 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons flour, salt 
and pepper. 

Miss Vera DeForest. 

Cream of Carrot Soup. 

Cook 2 cups of grated carrot and a small onion sliced 
in a pint of water. Press through a strainer into a 
pint of hot milk, season with salt and pepper, add a 
level tablespoon of flour mixed smooth with a little 
milk, and after this has cooked a tablespoon of butter. 
Serve with croutons. 

Mrs. O. P. Lockhart. 

Egg Balls. 

Boil 4 eggs, put into cold water, mash yolks with yolk 
of 1 raw egg. and 1 teapsoon of flour, pepper, salt and 
parsley; make into balls and boil 2 minutes. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 

Egg Balls. 

Four hard cooked eggs, 1 raw egg, salt and cayenne 
pepper, flour or sifted cracker crumbs. Mash yolks of 
eggs, add seasonings and enough yolk of raw egg to 



22 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

form a paste. Shape into balls the size of a walnut, 
dip into slightly beaten white of egg. roll in flour or 
cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. Drain and serve 
with soup. 

Rice Balls. 

One cup cold cooked rice, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 egg. 
salt, cayenne, nutmeg, 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind, 1 
teaspoon chopped parsley. Press rice through sieve. 
add flour, egg and seasonings. Roll in balls allowing 
a teaspoonful for each ball. Cook in boiling salted 
water until they harden on the outside. Serve hot 
with soup. 

Noodles, Dutch Style. 

Two eggs, 2 tablespoons milk. y 2 teaspoon salt and 
as much flour as the egg and milk will take up. Now 
lay on board and work as much flour in as possible. 
Roll almost as thin as paper, cut as narrow as possible, 
drop into boiling salted water, cook until tender. When 
done pour off water, then cover wi^h 2 slices of bread 
cut into tiny squares browned in plenty of butter. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Browned Crackers. 

Spread crackers with butter, sprinkle with salt and 
cayenne and brown in oven. Serve with soup. 

Cheese Crackers. 

Spread crackers thinly with butter, sprinkle with 
salt and cayenne and cover with grated cheese. Heat 
in oven until cheese is melted. Serve with soups. 

Croutons. 

Cut bread a /4 inch in thickness removing crust, cut 
slices in strips and strips in cubes. Dip in melted but- 
ter and brown in oven or fry in deep fat. 

Mrs. S. B. Snyder. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 23 



"Mingle, mingle, mingle, 

You that mingle may." . 

Fruit Salad Dressings. 

When the fruit salad is served with game, use either 
a mayonnaise or French dressing; the sweet dressing 
is served with the salad served as a last course at a 
luncheon or for a dessert salad at dinner. For the 
breakfast salad any dressing may be used, according to 
what is to be served with the salad. If the salad takes 
the place of fruit and cereals it may be served with 
sweet dressing. If it takes the place of a meat dish, 
mayonnaise may be served with it, and also whipped 
cream, but if eaten with meat serve only with fruit 
juices or French dressing. 

Salad Dressing. 

Butter size of a walnut. 1 teaspoon salt, dash of 
cayenne pepper, 1 small teaspoon mustard, 1 tablespoon 
flour, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar, % cup vinegar. 
Dilute the vinegar if very strong. Cream the butter 
and flour together and then add the other ingredients. 
Cook in double boiler until thick and let cool. When 
ready for use thin to proper consistency with either 
sweet or sour cream. 

Mrs. M. R. Matthews. 

Mayonnaise Cream Dressing. 

Beat up 2 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, add a 
piece of butter the size of half an egg, a little pepper 
and lastly a cup half filled with vinegar and finished 
with water. Mix well and cook until it creams like 
a soft custard. 

Mm. McKnight. 



Salad Dressing. 

One teaspoon each of salt, mustard and cornstarch, 
2 tablespoons of sugar, butter size of an egg, 1 egg, V 2 
cup vinegar, % cup milk. Mix ingredients, in order 
given, smoothly and boil until it thickens. If too 
thick, add cream or milk when serving to make the 
right consistency. 

Mrs. Charles E. Hammond. 

Salad Dressing. 

Two cups vinegar, 1-3 cup olive oil or butter, 2-3 
cup sweet cream or milk, yolks of 6 eggs, 3 tablespoons 
sugar, y^ teaspoon red pepper, 2 tablespoons Colman's 
mustard dry, 1 small teaspoon salt. Mix all ingredients 
but vinegar. Stir to a cream, add vinegar. Cook in 
double boiler until consistency of cream. Makes 1 
quart. Excellent. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. 

Salad Dressing That Will Keep. 

Three eggs, 1 cup vinegar (diluted %), % teaspoon 
mustard, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, sprinkle with paprika 
or cayenne. Beat the eggs, add a spoonful cold water, 
heat the vinegar, mix the mustard and cornstarch, stir 
into the vinegar, till it thickens, add sugar and salt, 
remove from the fire, beat in the eggs and butter and 
pepper, whip to a cream, thin with Carnation milk or 
olive oil when ready to use. 

Mrs. Cornell. 

Salad Dressing. 

Four tablespoonfuls vinegar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonfui 
sugar, y 2 teaspoonfui mustard, 1 teaspoonfui salt, 1/2 
teaspoonfui cornstarch, a pinch of cayenne. Cook in 
a double boiler. When cool beat in 1 pint of cream 
which has been whipped, not too thick. 

Mrs. W. T. Hook. 



Cream Salad Dressing. 

One cup cider vinegar, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons mixed 
mustard, 1 teaspoon salt, 14 teaspoon white pepper. 
Beat the eggs, then add ^negar, salt, pepper and mus- 
tard. Heat in double boiler; take from fire when mix- 
ture thickens, and add 1 tablespoon butter and % 
cup sugar. This bottled, keeps well. 

Mrs. E. G. Shryack. 

Prepared Mustard. 

Three teaspoons of Colman's ground mustard, 2 tea- 
spoons flour, 1/2 teaspoon of sugar and a little salt. 
Mix with water into a smooth thick paste, then thin 
with vinegar. 

Mrs. E. G. Shryack. 

Fruit Salad. 

One cup each of white grapes (seeds removed), 
banana, apples, nuts, pineapple. 

Dressing for Fruit Salad Two whole eggs well 
beaten, add a lump of butter size of walnut, 1 heaping 
tablespoon of sugar, a little salt, juice of 1 lemon. 
Cook in double boiler until thick. Add to this a half 
pint of whipping cream well whipped. Do not mix 
the fruit and dressing till ready to serve. 

Mrs. C. P. Modie. 

Tomato Salad. 

One can tomatoes run through colander, soak 1/2 
box gelatine in 1/2 up of the tomato liquid. Boil rest 
of liquid, add salt, pepper and sugar to taste. Pour 
on soaked gelatine, stir until dissolved, then pour into 
mold, ohill and eerve with dressing. 

Salad Dressing Two yolks, l / 2 cup sugar, !/2 cup 
milk, butter size of walnut, 2 teaspoons mustard, salt 
and pepper, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, ^ cup vinegar. 
Boil vinegar, add butter, then the rest of the ingredi- 
ents that have been mixed together. Cook until 
creamy. 

Cora U. Colt. 



26 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Fruit Salad. 

Take 3 oranges, 3 bananas, 1 pineapple, and 1 quart 
of strawberries. Put a layer of pineapple cut up in 
smal bits, sprinkle with sugar, then layer of bananas, 
then orange and lastly strawberries, taking care to 
sprinkle sugar over each layer. 

Mrs. James M. Davison. 

Carrot Salad. 

Pare and grate 3 medium sized carrots, chop 1 tart 
apple and teacupful of English walnuts, salt, mix well. 
Serve on lettuce leaf with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. James M. Davison. 

Fruit Salad. 

Six oranges, 3 apples; peel and sugar, let stand half 
hour; 1 cup celery, 1 cup English walnuts, chopped. 
Drain syrup off fruit, add celery and nuts, arrange on 
crisp lettuce leaves and serve with French salad dress- 
ing. 

Mrs. Lane. 

White Salad. 

Three grape fruit, y 2 can pineapple, 1 cup blanched 
almonds chopped. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise. 

Mrs. T. L. Lane. 

Pineapple Salad. 

c ut the sliced pineapple of 1 can into cubes, cut 1 
cup of blanched almonds fine, cut celery to fill 1 cup, 
fine, then take 4 tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise cream 
dressing and half pint of whipped cream. Mix all to- 
gether and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. McKnight. 

Cherry Salad. 

Royal Ann cherries with filbert filling served on let- 
tuce leaves with French dressing. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 2? 

Cheese Salad. 

Two cakes Neufchatel cheese, 1 ten cent bottle stuffed 
olives chopped, ^4 pound pecans, chopped. Mix to- 
gether and form into small balls. Place 2 or ^ on a 
lettuce leaf and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 



Mrs. H. H. Bay, 
Crystal Lake, HI. 



Salad. 



Chop 4 hard boiled eggs, 4 sweet pickles, add nuts 

and lettuce cut fine, season and thin with salad dressing. 

Mrs. O. Stewart. 

Salad. 

To equal parts of apples and celery cut fine, add nuts 
and salad dressing. Sprinkle lemon juice over apples 
when fixing to keep them from turning dark. 

Mrs. O. Stewart. 

Flower Salad. 

Peel, wipe and chill 4 small ripe tomatoes. When 
ready to serve, cut in eighths, not severing the sections, 
and open like the petals of a flower on a crisp lettuce 
leaf. Fill the center with chopped apples and celery. 
or with small onions and serve with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 

Tomato Salad. 

Choose ripe tomatoes of uniform size, cut off tops 
and scoop out contents. Cut in small dice and season 
highly cucumbers enough to fill tomatoes, first mix- 
ing with salad dressing, (over \\ith dressing, then 
chopped parsley chopped very fine. Use cream dress- 
ing and arrange on lettuce leaves. 

Marjorie Taylor. 

Dressing for Slaw. 

One egg, % cup vinegar diluted with y 2 cup water, 
^2 teaspoon dry mustard and salt to taste, 1-3 cup 
sugar, teaspoon butter. Beat egg well, adding vinegar. 



28 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

water, mustard, salt, sugar and butter. Cook in double 
boiler till thick. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. 

Banana Salad. 

Cut the banana in half the long way, then across, 
making 4 pieces. Put each on a lettuce leaf and cover 
with chopped celery and nuts and cover lightly with 
salad dressing. 

Mrs. Brace. 

Combination Salad. 

One head lettuce picked to pieces, 1 green sweet 
pepper, 1 medium sized cucumber, and % cup walnut 
meats chopped, pinch of salt. Serve in shell made of 
large tomato or cucumber. Drop a teaspoon of salad 
dressing on top. 

Mrs. Countryman. 

Combination Salad. 

One head lettuce, 1 cucumber, 1 onion, chopped; add 
any green vegetable desired, preferably tomato. Make 
dressing of % teaspoon salt, 14 teaspoon paprika, 1 
teaspoon olive oil and % cup vinegar. Pour over vege- 
tables just before serving. 

Mrs. C. E. Hammond. 

Salad Dressing. 

One-half cup boiling vinegar, yolk of 1 egg. Vii tea- 
spoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon pepper, y 2 teaspoon mustard, 2 
tablespoons of sugar. 1 tablespoon of flour. Dissolve 
mustard in hot vinegar. Stir hot vinegar in other in- 
gredients after all are well beaten together. Cook until 
it thickens. 

Mrs. R. H. Craig. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Take 2 pounds of shrimp, cut up about one-third as 
much lettuce or celery, take the yolks of 4 hard boiled 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 29 



eggs and mash smooth with 2 teaspoonfuls of olive oil 
or 1 teacupful of cream, add 1 teacupful of vinegar, 
1 tablespoonful of sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of fine mustard, 
1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly 
and then toss lightly over the shrimp. Garnish with 
leaves of lettuce, celery, or curled parsley, and the 
whites of the eggs cut in rings. 

Apple Salad. 

Scoop out the center of 8 red apples with a vegetable 
scoop. Mix with equal parts of finely chopped celery 
and boiled dressing. Fill apple shells and serve on 
bed of curled celery. 

Mrs. E. L. Foster. 

Salmon Salad. 

Beat thoroughly together 1 egg, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 
teaspoon ground mustard, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 table- 
spoon melted butter, 1 cup vinegar, a little green pep- 
per; put in dish and set in pan of boiling water, stir 
constantly until the mixture becomes creamy and thick. 
When cold pour over one can of salmon well drained, 
mixed with one head of celery and one-half head cab- 
bage chopped fine. 

Mrs. Carrie Smyser. 

Fruit Salad. 

One and a half cups sugar, */ cup cold water, l 1 /^ 
cups boiling water, y 2 box of Knox's gelatine, 3 ba- 
nanas, 3 oranges, 1 can pineapple. Soak gelatine in 
juice drained from pineapple and the cold water until 
dissolved, dissolve sugar in the boiling water, then pour 
over the gelatine; when a little cool add the fruit, 
a few cherries add to the flavor. Mold in sherbet 
glasses. This can be used for a salad served on a 
lettuce leaf with mayonnaise dressing, or as a desert 
served with whipped cream. Amount will serve 15 
guests. 

Mrs. J. P. McKnight. 



30 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Mock Pineapple Salad. 

Peel three large, rather sweet apples; cut -into thin 
slices and with a small round cutter remove the core. 
Cover the slices of the applies with cold water to keep 
them from discoloring. Peel four medium-sized, tart 
oranges, trim off the white pulp and slice the oranges 
across thegrain the same thickness as the apples. Put 
slices of apple and oranges together; arrange these 
in pyramid form on a glass dish. Reduce some thick 
mayonnaise with the juices that drain from the slices 
of orange and pour over the fruit and serve at once, 
very cold. Let the fruit chill before the mayonnaise 
is added. 

Apple and Grape Fruit Salad. 

Remove the pulp from one large grape fruit in small 
pieces; pare, core and chop two large, rather sweet 
apples fine. Put fruit tokether and mix with French 
dressing. c hill on ice. Serve in lettuce cups and gar- 
nish with white grapes, skinned and seeds removed, 
and chopped nuts. 

Pineapple and Celery Salad. 

Peel a small, ripe pineapple, cut out the eyes and 
shred ; set on ice until thoroughly chilled. Then mixe 
with a cup of finely chopped, crisp white celery, and 
a sweet, red pepper cut into dice. Sprinkle over this 
a little French dressing and let stand a few minutes. 
Then mix with mayonnaise and whipped cream and 
serve with garnish of lettuce leaves and nut meats. 

Strawberry Salad No. 1. 

To those who can not use cream with strawberries, 
the berries served in the form of salad are very accept- 
able. There are various ways of -serving them in this 
form ; one way is to select fine ripe fruit, stem and wash 
carefully if they are gritty; then drain and chill; ar- 
range in small cups made of lettuce leaves, filling par- 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 31 

tially full ; sprinkle lightly with lemon juice and cover 
with cream mayonnaise ; place on top of each salad a 
large unhulled berry. 

Strawberry Salad No. 2. 

Arrange on a glass dish thin slices of orange, select- 
ing the sweet thin-skinned ones, and no not peel them. 
On top of the orange slices pile the fruit, hulled and 
washed and wiped dry. Dust with powdered sugar and 
a little nutmeg. 




MEATS AND PROPER SAUCES. 

Roast Beef Grated hor?e-radish, tomato or cranberry sauce. 
Mutton Caper sauce, a tart jelly. 
Roast Pork Apple sauce. 
Roast Lamb Mint sauce. 
Roast Goose Apple sauce, cranberries. 
Roast Turkey -Cranberry sauce. 
Venison or Wild Duck Currant jelly. 
Boiled Ham Mustard, currant jelly. 
. Boiled Tongue Sliced lemon, horse-radish. 
Fresh Mackerel Gooseberry sauce. 

Garnish for Fowls or Birds. 
Two inch square cranberry jelly on a slice of orange. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 

A Dainty Dish for Luncheon. 

Here is a delicious dish for luncheon or tea : Flake 
fresh or canned salmon fine and mix wi^h it 4 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter ; beat two eggs and mix with 
them) half a cupful of bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and 
a little minced parsley ; mix in the salmon ; place in a 
buttered mold and steam for an hour; when cold send 
to the table on a bed of parsley. This is fine. 

Mrs. S. B. Snyder. 



32 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Salmon Loaf. 

One can salmon minced fine, 1 cup rolled crackers, 
butter size of walnut, salt and pepper to taste, % cup 
milk. Bake in buttered dish ^ hour. 

Mrs. O. Stewart. 

Salmon Loaf. 

One can of salmon from which all particles of skin 
and bone have been removed, 2 eggs beaten light, 2 
tablespoons melted butter, % cup of fine cracker 
crumbs, salt and pepper to taste. Rub to a smooth 
paste, put into a buttered mold and steam 11/2 hours. 
When done turn on to a platter and surround with 
fresh peas which have been boiled in salt water. 

Sauce for Salmon Loaf. 

Over all pour a sauce made as follows : Heat 2 cups 
of milk, into this stir 1 heaping teaspoon of corn starch 
rubbed smooth in a little milk, 1 teaspoon of butter, 
pepper and salt, cook until smooth and creamy. 

Mrs. Webb. 

Baked Fish (delicious). 

Fish weighing three or four pounds. Place in a bak- 
ing pan with a stick across each end to keep head and 
tail out of water, and parboil until nearly done. Then 
take the meat from the bone without breaking the bone 
or head. Pick the meat up, removing all small bones 
and skin. To this add one can of oysters and one can 
of shrimps, and chop, not too fine. Use about % cup 
bread crumbs to hold the mixture together; over this 
sprinkle salt and cayenne pepper. Then take 1 cup but- 
ter, set on fire to melt, add 1 onion and a little parsley 
chopped fine and fry slowly until nearly done, then 
mix with the above ingredients. Deftly mold the mix- 
ture on the bone of the fish, shaping as nearly like the 
original as possible. Sprinkle with cracker crumbs and 
place in oven, baste with melted butter until nicely 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 33 

browned. Garnish with parsley, lettuce leaves and 
sliced lemon. 

Mrs. H. M. Clayton. 

Salmon Loaf. 

One can salmon (pour off juice and oil), 1 cup sweet 
milk, 2 eggs well beaten, juice of 1 lemon, 1 cup bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well, steam 1 
hour. 

Dressing for Salmon Loaf. 

To the juice and oil add 1 cup of milk, salt and pep- 
per, juice of 2 tomatoes, lump of butter, boil and 
Ihicken with flour. Serve on the loaf. 

Baking powder cans are good to steam loaf in. This 
served with mashed potatoes makes a nice dish for 
luncheon. 

Mrs. C. P. Modle. 

Fish Turbot. 

Four pounds whitefish, steam and pick to pieces; 1 
pint milk. 1 scant !/2 cup of flour, 1 teaspoon grated 
onion. 2 or 3 eggs. Cook the milk over water, add 
gradually the flour, stirring constantly; add the well 
beaten eggs, then the onion. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Cook to consistency of very thick cream. Place in the 
shells a layer of fish and alternate with dressing till 
all is used. Cover over with cracker crumbs and bits 
of butter. Bake a rich brown. Garnish with bits of 
parsley and slices of lemon. 

Florence Clayton. 

Salmon Soufle. 



Separate 1 can (l^/o cups) salmon into flakes, season 
highly with salt, paprika and lemon juice. Cook l 1 /^ 
cups soft bread crumbs in y 2 cup milk, add to salmon 
with well beaten yolks of 3 eggs ; fold in stiffly beaten 



34 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

whites of 3 eggs and bake in mold until firm. Serve 
with 

Spanish Sauce. 

Melt 3 tablespoons butter, add 3 tablespoons flour, 1 
cup milk, ! /2 cup cream, 1 teaspoon salt, y$ teaspoon 
pepper, and y> cup pimientoes rubbed through a sieve. 

Y. W. C. A. Cooking School. 

Oyster Cocktails. 

For 60 oysters mix together 2 tablespoonfus each of 
tomato catsup and vinegar, six tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice, 1 teaspoonful each of finely grated horseradish 
and salt, */ teaspoonful of Tobasco sauce. Allow 5 
or 6 oysters for each person. 

Mrs. Gllmer. 

Fried Chicken. 

Salt, then dredge with flour, place in frying pan of 
hot lard and butter and let it brown. Then add a 
little cold water to create a steam and keep lid on. 
Fry slowly until tender. 

Mrs. C. P. Modie. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One pint chicken, ground fine. Put 3 tablespoonfuls 
of butter and 3 tablespoonfuls of flour on the fire to 
melt, stir in 1 cup of cream and 1 cup of stock, boil 
until the 'consistency of thick cream, mix this with 
the chicken, then add 1 small onion grated and a little 
fresh celery chopped. Set in a cool place to harden, 
over night, if possible; mold, dip in beaten egg, then 
roll in bread crumbs and fry a nice brown. This quan- 
tity makes 18 croquettes. 

Mrs. H. M. Clayton. 

Creamed Chicken. 

Four chickens, 4 sweetbreads, 3 cans mushrooms. 
Boil chicken till tender and cut as for salad, removing 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 35 



all skin. Boil and chop the sweetbreads. Mix chicken, 
sweetbreads and mushrooms. Bake in alternate layers 
with bread crumbs, seasoned with pieces of butter and 
cream dressing. 

Mrs. H. M. Clayton. 

Cream Dressing (to above). 

One and a half pints of cream, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, 1 grated onion, 4 tablespoonfuls of butter. Heat 
the cream, rub the flour into melted butter and put in 
the cream. c ook over hot water until it thickens. Re- 
move and stir in the onion. 

Put layer of chicken mixture in a baking pan and 
season with cayenne pepper and salt. Then a layer 
of cream dressing until all is used, over with a layer 
of bread crumbs and bake until a rich brown. This will 
serve 20 people and is delicious. 

Mrs. H. M. Clayton. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Two tablespoons butter, melted, 2 tablespoons flour, 
add 1 cup stock, % cup cream, pepper and salt, boil 2 
minutes. Cook until it thickens, add 2 cups of minced 
chicken and mold, roll in beaten egg and crumbs and 
fry. 

Mrs. Harvey. 

Baked Chops. 

Skin and remove fat from loin chops. Have enough 
bread crumbs that you think will cover chops. Rub 
into the crumbs some finely chopped onion, little sage, 
salt, pepper and teaspoon of butter. Spread over the 
chops and bake for % hour. See that the bottom of 
pan is kept covered with water, which serves as gravy. 

Mrs. Brace. 

Lemon Potpie. 

Slice 1 lemon in 1% pints boiling water, add 1 heap- 
ing cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, boil 10 minutes. 



36 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Dumplings Beat 1 egg, add 1 tablespoon cream, a 
very little salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, flour enough 
to make very stiff batter, stir in 1/2 cup of raisins, flavor 
with vanilla, drop into the boilng syrup by spoonful. 

Mrs. W. W. Gilliland. 

Spanish Stew. 

In the bottom of an iron or porcelain lined kettle 
lay 2 or 3 slices of salt pork and on them 2 or 3 large 
onions, sliced and fried a little brown, then a flank 
steak and on that % can of tomatoes; then add a lot 
of water, I think nearly 2 quarts and a pint, cover 
and let boil 3 hours, then add macaroni or spaghetti ; 
boil half an hour longer and serve good and hot. Sea- 
son to taste. 

Mrs. Hammond. 

Meat Pie. 

Take 3 pounds of veal or pork, cover with water and 
boil until tender; add 2 large potatoes or 1/2 dozen 
very small ones just before the meat is done; add 
plenty of butter, salt and pepper to taste; put your 
meat and part of liquid in the pan and cover with a 
rich biscuit dough; bake till crust is done. 

Mrs. S. B. Snyder. 

Beef Croquettes. 

Cold roast beef, bread crumbs, a little milk. 1 beaten 
egg, powdered crackers, pepper and salt, parsley. Chop 
the beef fine and add to it 1-3 as much bread crumbs 
as meat; moisten with a little milk, season and form 
into balls. Dip these into the beaten eggs, roll in 
cracker and fry in butter. Garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Two cups cold cooked veal, y 2 teaspoonful salt, y 8 
teaspoonful pepper, few grains cayenne, 1 teaspoonful 
onion juice, yolk 1 egg, 1 cup thick white sauce, mix- 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 37 

ing ingredients in order given, cool and shape. Fry in 
deep hot fat. 

Sauce for Croquettes. 

Two and a half tablespoonfuls butter, ^4 CU P corn 
starch or 1-3 cup flour, 1 cup milk. ^ teaspoonful salt, 
few grains pepper. Put butter in sauce pan, stir until 
melted and bubbling, add flour mixed with seasonings 
and stir thoroughly, pour on gradually the milk, add- 
ing 1-3 at a time, stirring until well mixed, then beating 
until smooth and glossy. 

Miss Hanvey, Hollywood, Cal. 

Mexican Meat Balls. 

Thirty-five cent round steak. 15c lean pork, ground 
together, or if not liked so rich all steak may be used. 
8 crackers crumbed. % a good sized onion cut fine. 2 
level teaspoons salt, a little black pepper, red pepper, 
and sage if liked, 1 egg. Mix thoroughly and make 
into balls slightly larger than walnuts, drop into fho 
boiling sauce and cook slowly li/o hours. 

Sauce. 

One quart tomatoes, 1 pint water, 1/2 onion sliced, 
pepper, red pepper, 1 level teaspoon salt, 1 bay leaf. 
This burns easily, so cook if possible in an aluminum 
kettle set on an asbestos plate. Stir quite often and 
fifteen minutes before done dip in spoonfuls over the 
top the following dumpling batter: 

Dumplings. 

One and a half cups flour sifted three times with 1 
heaping teaspoon baking powder and !/4 heaping tea- 
spoon salt, sufficient sweet milk for a very soft dough. 
Keep covered until done. 

Mrs. Wm. Gregory. 

Casserole of Rice and Meat. 
Line a mold, slightly greased, with boiled rice, fill 



38 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

the center with 2 cups finely chopped cooked mutton, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, cayenne, onion juice and 
lemon juice, 1 tablespoon each, 1 egg slightly beaten, 
and enough hot stock or water to moisten, cover meat 
with rice. Cover with buttered paper to keep out 
moisture while steaming, and steam 45 minutes. Serve 
on platter surrounded with tomato sauce. Veal or beef 
may be used instead of mutton and gravy instead of 
water to moisten. 

Miss Hanvey, Hollywood, Cal. 

Veal Loaf. 

Chop 3 pounds of veal and % pound of salt pork, 
add 3 eggs, and 6 crackers crushed. 1 tablespoon salt 
and pepper, butter the size of a walnut. If not moist 
enough add sweet milk. Do not bake too fast and baste 
often with water and butter. 

Mrs. C. W. Cord. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds veal, % cup butter, 2 eggs, 15 small 
Crackers or 7 large sodas rolled fine, cup of milk, salt 
and pepper to taste. Make into a roll, put into the 
pan a pint of water to baste while baking. Bake l 1 /^ 
hours in good hot oven. 

Mrs. A. H. Stover. 

Veal Loaf. 

Chop fine 3 pounds of leg or loin of veal, and % 
pound salt pork, together. Roll 1 dozen crackers, 
put !/2 of them in the veal with 2 eggs, sea- 
son with pepper and a little salt if needed. Mix to- 
gether and make into a solid form, then take the crack- 
ers that are left and spread smoothly over the outside. 
Bake 1 hour and eat cold. 

Mrs. M. E. Bads. 

Nut Loaf, with Crumbs. 
Two cups walnuts. 2 cups bread crumbs ground. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 39 

Melt 2 tablespoons butter in 1 cup rich milk and add 
when cool 1o the nut and crumb mixture. Add 1 tea- 
spoon salt and 1 heaping teaspoon powdered mixed 
herbs, say marjoram, summer savory and thyme, a 
dash of cayenne; then add 1 well beaten egg and work 
with the hands into firm, oval loaf. Bake in moderate 
oven, basting often with butter and water. Serve hot 
with tomato sauce. 

Sauce. 

Cook 1 tablespoon of chopped onion in 1 tablespoon 
of butter, add 1 tablespoon flour and when well blended 
add 1/2 can tomatoes. Salt and pepper to taste. This 
loaf may be used cold served with mayonnaise. 

Miss Alice Claypool 

Creamed Corned Beef au Gratin. 

Two cups beef, 2 slices onion, 1 cup celery, pour over 
white sauce made as follows: Two cups milk, i/4 cup 
flour, paprika, 14 cup butter brown, % cup cracker 
crumbs in 2 tablespoons butter. Sprinkle over top of 
mixture and bake in oven. 

Miss Vera De Forest. 

Cannelon of Beef. 

One pound of uncooked beef chopped fine, yolk of 1 
egg, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon of 
butter, 2 tablespoons of breadcrumbs. 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 teaspoon lemon juice, 3 dashes of black pepper. % 
teaspoon of onion juice. Mix all the ingredients to- 
gether, then form into a roll about 6 inches long, place 
in a baking pan and bake in quick oven about 30 min- 
utes. Baste often with y cup of butter melted in a cup 
of boiling water. Serve with tomatoe sauce poured 
around it. 



40 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Tomato Sauce. 

Cook 1 rounded tablespoon minced onion in 1 table- 
spoon of butter till only slightly colored, add if liked 
the same amount of minced sweet pepper, celery or 
parsley, slir in 1 rounded tablespoon flour and a /4 level 
teaspoon salt, add gradually from 1 to 1% cups hot 
strained tomatoes. 

Mrs. Jeter. 

Peanut Dressing for Domestic Duck. 

Three-quarter cup cracker crumbs, % cup shelled 
peanuts finely chopped, !/> cup rich cream, 2 table- 
spoons butter, few drops onion juice, salt and cayenne 
pepper, mixed in order named. 

Y. W. C. A. Cooking School. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 41 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



T. J. LOCKHART O. P. LOCHART. NOTARY PUBLIC 

RES.TCL. WEST 4359 RES. TEL, WEST SO65 

LOCKHART & SON 

REAL ESTATE, LOANS AND INSURANCE 
SUNSET MAIN 141O 
HOME A 7552 

6O1-6O2 H. W. HELLMAN BLDG. 

4TH a SPRING STS. Los ANGELES, CAL. 

Main 1975 Home A -4786 



DR. CHARLES E. RICE 

iimttHt 

218 Bradbury Bldg., 3rd and Broadway Los Angeles, Cal. 



THE BOY'S CLOTHIERS 



Every wanted Item for Boys Wear is here at 
its best. 



BROADWAY SIXTH 



"THE QUALITY STORE" 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 43 



Potatoes in seven ways, or for dinner each day of the week. 

Sunday Mashed Potatoes 

Monday Baked in their jackets. 

Tuesday Peel and brown with roast. 

Wednesday Escalloped potatoes. 

Thursday Peel, steam and serve whole. 

Friday. Peel, cut in thick slices and fry. 

Saturday Boil in jackets 

Portuguese Rice. 

Wash 1/2 CU P f r i ce through 2 or 3 waters, then soak 
for 1/2 hour in water. Boil in double boiler in 1 quart 
of milk till done, but not soft enough to mash up, stir 
in 2 well beaten eggs, sweeten to taste. Put on a flat 
dish and sprinkle over it powdered cinnamon. Serve 
cold with cream. 

Mrs. M. R. Matthews. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Six good firm tomatoes, 1 cucumber, 2 green onions, 
1 green pepper, few pieces celery, % teaspoon salt, 
few dashes pepper. Skin the tomatoes, take out pulp 
and put in a bowl. To the pulp add the sliced cucum- 
ber, chopped celery, chopped onions, chopped pepper 
and salt. Place two large lettuce leaves on plate and 
a tomato; fill the tomatoes from bowl and cover with 
dressing. 

Mrs. H. E. Brace. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Six good sized solid tomatoes, a /2 pint of cold boiled 
rice, 1 onion chopped fine, small piece green bell pep- 
per, 1 tablespoon melted butter, y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 
teaspoon of sugar. Cut a slice off the top and remove 
seeds with a spoon. Fill the tomatoes even with the 



44 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

top. Stand them in a baking pan and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Mrs. Frank Tyrrell. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Scoop out 4 large or 6 small tomatoes and turn upside 
down to drain. Fill with the following mixture : Three 
shredded wheat biscuits and 4 crackers rolled, 1 table- 
spoon butter and 1-3 cup hot water, 1 onion chopped 
fine, salt, pepper and sage to taste, enough tomato pulp 
to make rather soft mixture. Fill tomato shells and 
bake 15 or 20 minutes. Nuts may be added or not as 
desired. 

Eula Eads Hahn. 

Stuffed Peppers and Tomatoes. 

Green peppers, take off top and remove all the seeds, 
put in salted water and boil 20 minutes. 

Tomatoes, cut out small place in top, put salt in 
and turn upside down for some time. 

Make milk sauce, add 2 tablespoons of chopped veal, 
2 tablespoons of chopped onions, after browning onions 
in butter, and 2 tablespoons of cracker dust. Put in 
the centers and cover tops with buttered cracker 
crumbs. Bake 20 minutes. 

Miss Vera DeForest. 

Stuffed Peppers (Bell Peppers). 

Cut a slice from stem end of each pepper, remove 
seeds and parboil 15 minutes. Fill with equal parts of 
finely chopped chicken, veal or beef and softened bread 
crumbs, seasoned with onion- juice, salt and pepper; 
cover top with crumbs and small piece of butter, and 
place in pan in which there is a little water, and bake 
10 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Miss Hanvey. 

Stuffed Peppers. 
Cut a piece from stem end of peppers to make them 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 45 

of equal height and remove the seeds and partitions; 
cover with scalding water and let stand ten minutes; 
drain and fill with the following mixture and bake 
45 minutes in a moderate oven in a cupful of hot water 
or stock : Stir l /2 cup of veal finely chopped, ^ cup 
fine bread crumbs, ^ teaspoon onion juice, 1 tablespoon 
butter melted, and yolk of 1 egg into ^ cup of white 
sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper. 

Miss Anna Ingram. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Take large, smooth tomatoes, cut a slice off the top 
and remove most of the pulp. Cut tender corn off the 
cob, mix with the tomato pulp and season to taste with 
salt, pepper, and sugar if liked. Fill the tomatoes with 
mixture, sprinkle with bread crumbs on top. place a 
piece of butter on each and bake 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Half can tomatoes, a large slice of onion, 3 table- 
spoons butter, 2 l /2 tablespoons flour. y teaspoon sail. 
% teaspoon pepper. c ook onion with pepper and to- 
matoes, rub through a sieve. Add to butter and flour 
cooked together. 

Miss Hanvey. 

Spiced Beets. 

Half cup sugar. 1 tablespoon corn starch, i/4 cup 
vinegar, li/o cups boiling water. % teaspoon salt, i/4 
teaspoon cinnamon. y teaspoon cloves, 1 piece of but- 
ter. Mix sugar <nnd corn starch together first, add vine- 
gar, spices and butter, and boilng water last and boil 
all; pour hot over beets, cut previously in small cubes. 

Mrs. W. E. White. 

Corn Fritters. 

One can corn, 1 'cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
2 teaspoons salt, ^ teaspoon paprika, 2 eggs. Chop 



46 



corn, add dry ingredients mixed and sifted, then add 
.yolks beaten until thick, and fold in whites beaten 
stiff. Cook in deep fat, drain on brown paper. 

Miss Hanvey. 

Corn Fritters. 

One can corn, 2 eggs, % cup sweet milk, salt to taste. 
Thicken this with rolled cracker crumbs and drop in 
small cakes in hot lard, cooking slowly. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. 

Potato Rolls. 

Sponge : 1 cup mashed potatoes, 1 cup sweet milk, 
1 tablespoon lard, 1 egg, salt, 1 cake compressed yeast. 
Set at bedtime. In the morning stir and work into 
sponge 2 pints unsifted flour, let raise. Make into 16 
rolls, handle lightly as possible, put a little distance 
apart in pan. When light, bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. W. E. White. 

Potatoes With Cheese. 

Boil 4 or 5 good sized potatoes with peeling on. Let 
cool ; peel, slice in baking dish, adding pepper and salt, 
1 large cup sweet milk, butter size of an egg. Let 
boil, thicken with flour. Pour over potatoes, sprinkle 
with grated cheese and bake till brown. 

Mrs. C. F. W. Palmer. 

Ralston Potatoes. 

Slice potatoes thin into pan, add salt and pepper and 
a little butter ; cover with milk and bake in quick oven 
% hour. 

Mrs. Brace. 

String Beans. 

Cut strings from 1 pound of string beans and cut 
in small pieces. Wash thoroughly and add 4 medium 
sized tomatoes, 1 onion and green pepper to suit the 
taste, a slice of bacon, a small piece of butter, salt and 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 47 

pepper. Cover with water and cook slowly for about 

2 hours. A little corn added improves. 

Mrs. W. E. White. 

Spanish Beans. 

Wash thoroughly 1 pint of California pink beans and 
put to cook in cold water. 'After they have cooked 1 
hour, remove from the fire and wash thoroughly again 
in cold water, after which you add a generous supply 
of sliced bacon, 4 or 5 ripe tomatoes, or ^ can of to- 
matoes, 3 or 4 good sized onions, and several good sized 
red peppers and salt to taste. Cook well not less than 

3 hours or until well done. 

Mrs. J. A. Groves. 

Baked Beans. 

Pick over carefully a quart of beans and let soak 
over night; in the morning wash in another water and 
drain ; put on to boil in cold water with y<> teaspoon 
of soda; boil about 30 minutes. (When done the skin 
of a bean will crack if taken out and blown upon.) 
Drain and put in an earthen pot with salt and 2 or 3 
tablespoons of molasses (brown sugar will do). When 
the beans are in the pot, put in the center % or 94 of 
a pound of salt pork with the rind scored in slices, or 
squares and uppermost. Season with pepper and salt 
if needed; cover all with hot water and bake 6 hours 
or longer in a moderate oven, adding more water as 
needed ; they can not be baked too long. Keep covered 
so they will not burn on the top, but remove cover 
an hour or so before serving to brown the top and 
crisp the pork. 

Mrs. John T. Stivers. 

Bean Croquettes. 

C<*ld baked beans, either canned or home made. 
Mash the beans through a coarse sieve, removing all 
the skins. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and 



48 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Worcestershire sauce unless the beans already have 
tomato sauce or catsup added. A little vinegar and 
mixed mustard may be added for a change. If the mix- 
ture is too dry, soften with a little cream or white 
sauce. Form the croquettes, dip into beaten egg, and 
cover with bread crumbs. Fry in deep, hot fat until 
nicely brown. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. John T. Stivers. 

Mexican Beans. 

One cup little red Mexican beans soaked in water 
over night ; parboil with pinch of soda, then put on to 
cook in hot water and cook slowly all day with small 
piece of bacon and salt to taste. Next morning put 2 
heaping tablespoons of butter in frying pan, add finely 
chopped round steak (25c steak), 1 pint of tomatoes, 
1 small onion, piece of bay leaf, salt to taste, and cook 
about 20 minutes, then add to beans. The longer it is 
cooked the belter. Before serving, add 1 tablespoon 
chili powder. 

Mrs. M. Gale. 

Rice Balls. 

Two tablespoons cold boiled riee, 1 tablespoon cooked 
meat chopped fine, 1^4 cups tomatoes, bay leaf, sprig 
of parsley, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, y 2 
teaspoon salt. Spread the rice on a square of cheese 
cloth, place the meat in the center and fold up the 
corners of the cloth and tie. Drop the balls into a 
sauce pan and boil 10 minutes. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and stir until well 
mixed, then add the tomato, salt, bay leaf, and parsley. 
Stir until it thickens. To serve, place the balls on a 
dish and pour sauce around them. 

Cora U. Colt. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 49 



"Cheerful looks make every dish a feast." 

Cheese Straws. 

One cup finely grated stale cheese, 1 cup sifted flour, 
1 tablespoon melted butter, a dash of cayenne pepper, 
% teaspoon salt, and enough milk to mix into a dough. 
Roll out, cut into narrow strips and bake in a mod- 
erate oven until a delicate brown. Serve with salad. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 

c heese Straws. 

One cupful flour, 2 tablespoons lard, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 tablespoon grated cheese, enough water to mois- 
ten. Mix the same as for pie dough. Roll out rather 
thin, cut into strips perhaps 4 or 5 inches long and bake 
in moderate oven. 

Mrs. H. E. Brace. 

Cheese Balls. 

One and a half cups grated cheese, y teaspoonful 
salt. Vj. teaspoonful paprika, whiles of 3 eggs, cracker 
crumbs. Beat whites of eggs stiff, add cheese and sea- 
sonings, then roll in cracker crumbs the shape of little 
balls. Fry in deep fat. 

Miss Vera DeForest. 

Cheese Balls. 

To 1 cup of grated stale chees add 1-3 teaspoon salt, 
a dash of cayenne pepper and a pinch of celery salt. 
Mix this with the whites of 2 stiffly beaten eggs and 
mold into balls the size of walnuts. Drop 2 at a time 
into kettle of boiling "Cottosuet. " With a silver fork 
keep the balls constantly in motion ; if allowed to rest 
on bottom of kettle they will pull apart and stick. A 



5 o THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

moment is sufficient to brown them. Place on wrapping 
paper for an instant and serve piping hot with salad 
and coffee. These are delicious. 

Miss Florence Clayton. 

Cheese Wafers. 

Spread Long Branch salted wafers well with butter 
and plenty of thin slices of cheese. Place in a very 
hot oven until cheese is melted Serve with salad. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 

Cheese Scallops. 

Soak in milk % of a pound of fine white bread 
crumbs, add 2 well beaten eggs, 1 tablespoon butter 
and 4 tablespoons grated cheese. Mix all together well, 
adding salt and pepper. Divide into buttered scallop 
shells, sprinkle over with fine bread crumbs, grated 
cheese and melted butter. Bake a light brown color 
and serve hot. 

Mrs. Claude E. Quivey. 

Chese Souffle. 

Two tablespoons butter. 3 tablespoons flour, y 2 cup 
scalded milk, 1/2 teaspoon salt, dash of cayenne pep- 
per, 14 cup grated cheese, 3 eggs. Melt butter, add 
flour, and when mixed add gradually scalded milk, then 
salt, cayenne and cheese. Remove from fire, add yolks 
of eggs beaten lightly, fold in whites which have'been 
beaten stiff and dry, pour into buttered baking dish 
and bake 20 minutes in slow oven. Serve immediately. 

Miss Hanvey. 

Cheese Fondu. 

One cup bread crumbs, 1 cup sweet milk. 1 cup 
grated cheese, 2 well beaten eggs. Soak bread crumbs 
in milk until soft, add cheese and eggs, season to taste. 
Bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. T. L. Lane. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 51 

Cheese Fondant. 

Two cups milk, 1 cup bread crumbs, y pound grated 
cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs, salt and pepper 
to taste. Put in double boiler the milk, cheese, bread 
crumbs, butter and seasoning. Let come to boiling 
point and add yolks of eggs. When it has thickened 
remove from the stove and fold in whites of eggs which 
have been beaten very stiff. Bake in pudding dish or 
ramakins for half an hour and serve immediately. 

Mary Ballar, 
Crystal Lake, 111. 

Cheese Custard. 

Butter 3 thin slices of white bread, let them soak for 
l /2 hour in a custard made with 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, 
and a dash of cayenne pepper; lay slices in a buttered 
pudding pan. Put layers of thin slices of cheese be- 
tween each, pour on the custard and sprinkle grated 
cheese on the top. Set dish in a pan of hot water and 
bake in a moderate oven. The water must not boil or 
custard will be full of holes and whey. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Jeter. 

Cheese Custard for One Person. 

Two tablespoons bread crumbs, 3 tablespoons milk, 
1 tablespoon cheese, 1 egg, sprinkle of salt. Soak 
crumbs in milk 10 minutes, melt butter in double boiler, 
add cheese chopped fine, and stir until cheese melts, 
add milk and crumbs, then egg, and serve on cracker. 

Paulyne McKInney. 

Italian Macaroni. 

Cook a cupful of macaroni in salted water until 
tender. Drain off the water and put the macaroni into 
a colander. Have ready in a saucepan a large table- 
spoonful of butter, heated. Put into this a sliced onion 
and cook tender. Turn into the saucepan a can of 
tomatoes and one chili pepper (or in quantity accord- 
ing to its "hotness"). Salt and cook fifteen minutes. 



52 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Arrange thq macaroni alternately in layers with the 
tomatoes in a bakedish, finishing, of course, with the 
tomatoes. Cover with grated cheese and bake fifteen 
or twenty minutes. If not moist enough, do not add 
all the macaroni, as it must be juicy. 

Mrs. F. C. Webber. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

One-quarter pound macaroni broken into 1 inch 
lengths and cooked in 3 pints boiling salted water 20 
minutes. Turn into a colander and pour over it cold 
water, drain. Make a sauce of 1 tablespoonful of 
butter rubber into 1% cup hot milk, salt. Put a layer 
of grated cheese in bottom of baking dish, then a layer 
of macaroni and 1 of sauce, then cheese, macaroni and 
sauce, and cover the top with fine bread crumbs and 
bits of butter and a little grated cheese. Bake until 
brown. 

Macaroni Croquettes. 

Break 6 ounces of macaroni in pieces, boil until 
tender, drain in a colander. Rub 1 teaspoon of butter 
and 2 ounces of flour together until smooth, then stir 
into 1 cup of warm cream until it thickens (stir to pre- 
vent burning), add 2 teaspoons of grated cheese, then 
macaroni, salt and pepper to taste and yolks of 2 eggs. 
Cook for a minute, then turn out to cool. Form into 
croquettes, roll in egg, then cracker crumbs, and fry 
in hot lard. 

Mrs. C. W. Cord. 

Macaroni and Eggs. 

Break 2 cupfuls of macaroni, boil until tender in 
salted water and drain. Have 1 tablespoon each of 
butter and lard piping hot in frying pan, turn in cooked 
macaroni and fry a few moments, then beat lightly 4 
eggs and turn over macaroni and cook only a moment 
longer. Take up while eggs are still soft, 

Mrs. C. E. Hammond. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 53 



"Life gives us the key to the larder, 

We choose for our feasts what we will." 

Never Fail Omelet. 

Beat the yolks of 6 eggs very light and stir in 1 
tablespoon of flour and y teaspoon of salt. Add but- 
ter size of a walnut, melted, .then a small teacup of 
sweet milk. Lastly, whip in the stiffly beaten whites. 
Turn into a well buttered baking dish and bake in a 
quick oven until a golden brown. About 15 minutes 
is sufficient to bake well. Serve immediately. 

Miss Florence Clayton. 

French Omelet. 

Three eggs, 3 tablespoons milk, 1 teaspoon flour, pinch 
of salt. Bept the yolks; of egge well, add milk, flour 
and salt, and stir half the well beaten whites with half 
the mixture and turn into a frying pan in which a little 
butter has become smoking hot. As it browns, roll and 
place on a hot platter. Stir in remainder of whites 
and proceed as before. 

Miss Ida B. Davisqn. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Six hard boiled eggs, 1 teaspoonful onion juice, 4 
chopped olives, % teaspoon butter, pinch salt and dash 
of pepper. Boil eggs 20 minutes. Cut in half, remove 
yolks into mixing bowl, add all the other ingredients 
and mix well. Put the white on lettuce leaf and fill 
with the mixture. Cover with salad dressing. 

Mrs. H. E. Brace. 

Baked Eggs. 
Break as many egsrs a A s you wish to serve into an iron 



54 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

frying pan or small individual baking dishes. Pour 
milk (cream is still better) over eggs until yolks only 
are seen, sprinkle with salt, pepper, bits of butter, 
and place in medium hot oven. Let bake until milk 
has simmered a few minutes. Garnish dishes and serve. 

Mrs. Claude E. Quivey. 

Eggs in Scallop Shells. 

Cook fresh eggs about 20 minutes, then peel. Place 
1 egg in a scallop shell over mashed potatoes which 
have been seasoned and whipped to extreme lightness. 
If potato has been put through a piping tube it will 
be much more attractive looking. Garnish shells 
daintily. 

Grace M. Quivey. 

Eggs a la Goldenrod. 

Have prepared 6 slices of buttered toast and 6 hard 
boiled eggs. Make a gravy of 1 pint of milk, season- 
ing to taste and add the chopped whites of the eggs. 
Place the toast on a platter and pour the gravy over, 
crumb the yokes over this in the form of goldenrod. 

Mrs. C. A. Barhydt. 

Eggs Au Gratin. 

Half cup white sauce, 2 eggs, salt and pepper. Drop 
eggs in sauce and poach, then put cheese on top and 
bake in oven. 

Miss Vera DeForest. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 55 



"With weights and measures just and true, 

Oven of even heat, 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves, 

Success will be complete." 

Soft Ginger Bread. 

One and a half cups sifted flour, y 2 cup sour milk, ^ 
cup brown sugar, y 2 CU P molasses, 1-3 cup butter, 1 
egg, % teaspoon soda. Add ginger and spice to taste. 
Bake in shallow pan about 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Gllmer. 

Ginger Bread. 

Half cup white sugar, i/o cup molasses, y 2 cup butter. 
y> cup milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, nut- 
meg, ginger and cloves, 1 small teaspoon soda, flour to 
Ihinken as for ordinary cake. Very nice. 

Mrs. Offenbach. 

Ginger Bread. 

Half cup sugar and 1-3 cup butter creamed. 1 egg, 
y 2 teaspoon soda in y 2 cup hot water, f/2 cup molasses, 
1 teaspoon ginger, 2 cups flour, pinch of salt. 

.Mrs. Countryman. 

Ginger Bread. 

Half cup sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 1 egg, shortening 
the size of an egg, 1 level teaspoon soda dissolved in 
hot water, 1 teaspoon ginger, 2-3 cup cold water. 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, y 2 teaspoon salt. 
Mix in order given. 

Mrs. Jeter. 

Good Soft Girger Bread. 
One cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk, y 2 



56 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

cup butter, 2 eggs, teaspoonful soda, ginger and spices 
to taste. 

Mrs. M. R. Matthews. 

Soft Ginger Cake. 

Mix together 1 cupful of brown sugar and % of a 
cupful of butter and lard mixed. Add 1 egg, well 
beaten, and 1 cupful of molasses, also 1 teaspoon each 
of cinnamon and ginger. Into 1 cupful of boiling water 
stir 2 even teaspoonfuls of powdered soda. Fold in 
3 cupfuls of flour. Bake with a slow fire for % hour. 

Mrs. John T. Stivers. 

Spice Cake. 

One and a half cups sugar, 1/2 cup butter, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2y 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon and cloves, and x /2 teaspoon ginger. One cup 
raisins or currants is an improvement. 

Mrs. L. G. Hoyt. 

Spice Cake. 

One and a half cups sugar, 1 cup sour milk. % cup 
butter, 1 teaspoon soda, spice, 2^ cups, flour, 1 cup 
chopped raisins, or 1 cup chopped walnuts may be 
added. For spice 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Half teaspoon 
each of cloves and ginger is good. 

Mrs. Charles S. McKelvey. 

Molasses or Spice Cake. 

This cake is fine when eggs are high ; try it : !/2 cup 
molasses, !/2 cup brown sugar, y 2 cup butter or lard, % 
cup water, 2 cups flour, 1 egg, % teaspoon soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful each cinnamon, ginger, cloves and nutmeg. 

Molasses Cake. 

One and a half cups molasses, % cup sugar, 3 cups 
flour, 1 level teaspoonful soda, l 1 /^ tablespoonful of but- 
ter, 1 egg, 1 cup boiling water, added the last thing. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 57 



Mix molasses, sugar and butter together, and heat just 
a little. Then add egg, soda and flour. The flour 
should be sifted before measured. 

Marble Cake. 

Three cups granulated sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
milk, 8 whites of eggs beaten stiff, 5 cups flour, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder. For the colored part 1 tea- 
spoon ground cloves. 2 teaspoons cinnamon, ^ tea- 
spoon nutmeg. 

Mrs. Hege. 

Wedding Cake. 

One pound flour, 1 pound sugar, l 1 /^ pound butter, 
l /2 pound citron, 4 pounds currants, 4 pounds raisins, 
9 eggs, 1 tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon, mace, 
nutmeg and 3 gills of coffee. Steam 4 hours, then 
bake until dry or about half an hour. 

Mrs. F. E. Harvey. 

Angel Food. 

Whites of 1 dozen eggs, l 1 /^ cups sifted powdered 
sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Beat the whites very stiff, beat in sugar 
slowly, mix the r'ream of tartar slowly with the flour, 
and sift slowly into the eggs, stirring all the time, add 
the flavoring. Place in a fake pan that has never 
been greased. Bake in a moderate over % of hour. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruff. 

White Loaf. 

Eight whites of eggs, 2 cups powdered sugar or 1V 2 
cups granulated sugar, 1/2 cup butter, % cup milk, 3 
cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Pearl Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, 1 cup butter; stir this to a cream. 
Add 1 cup cornstarch. 1 cup sweet milk; beat in the 
whites of 5 eggs, beat it to a froth, 2 cups flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, mix in the flour. 

Mrs. C. A. Yelsley. 



5 8 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



One Egg Cake. 

One cup sugar, 1/2 cup butter, 1 egg or whites of 2, 
or yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 
21/2 teaspoons baking powder. Flavor to taste. 

Mrs. McKnight. 

Devil's Food Cake. 

Three-fourths cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 
2y 2 cups flour, 1/2 cup cocoa, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking 
nowder, vanilla. 

Mrs. Burford. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two squares Baker's Chocolate, yolk of 1 egg, 1/2 
cup sweet milk. Put together in dish on stove over 
hot water until thick like custard. Add to that 1 cup 
brown sugar, 1/2 cup milk (sweet or sour), butter size 
of egg, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
pinch of salt, l 1 /^ cups flour, flavoring, 1 cup chopped 
nuts. 

Icing 1 square chocolate, 1 cup powdered sugar, 
moisten with milk. 

Miss Hanvey. 

Chocolate Nut Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of bu f ter. 1 cup mashed 
potatoes. 4 eggs beaten separately. 1 cup of milk, cin- 
namon and cloves to taste, 1 cup of English walnuts, 
allspice, 2 tablespoons grated chocolate, "2 cups of flour, 
4 level teaspoons of baking powder, nutmeg. Bake in 
a slow oven about 45 minutes. 

Mrs. Frank Tyrrell. 

Nut Cake. 

Half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, i/ 2 cup 
sweet milk, 2 cups chopped nuts, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 4 eggs beaten separately. 

Mrs. Burson. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 59 



Raisin Cake. 

A good luncheon or tea-cake may be made as fol- 
lows: Mix a teaspoon of baking powder and a pinch 
of salt with 2 cups of flour, rub into this 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. Then add */2 cup of sugar, 1/2 cup of 
raisins and citron mixed, ^ cup of walnuts; then beat 
1 egg with 1/2 cupful of sweet milk and add to dry in- 
gredients. Bake in loaf 1 hour. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Apple Sauce Cake. 

1 cup sugar, butter size of egg, cream together. Add 
1 l /2 cups warm apple sauce (sweetened), 2% cups flour 
(sifted), 1 teaspoon cinnamon, */ teaspoon cloves, 1 
cup chopped raisins, 2 scant teaspoons soda dissolved 
in about 1 tablespoon boiling water and add last. Put 
batter in pan and let stand 10 minutes before baking. 
Bake as loaf cake about 1 hour in moderate oven. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. 

Apple Sauce Cake. 

One and a half cups sugar, 2 level tablespoons but- 
ter, 1 cup raisins chopped (not too fine), 2 cups flour. 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, cloves and salt, 
1 level teaspoonful soda dissolved in y? cup cold water. 
Then stir in 1 cup hot apple sance and whip till frothy, 
put with cake batter and beat till mixed., Bake in 
papered pan in moderate oven for nearly 1 hour. 

Mrs. Caroline Dickinson, 
Portland, Oregon. 

Potato Cake. 

Two-thirds cup of butter, and 2 cups of sugar 
creamed, 4 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 1 
cup mashed potatoes, 1 cup chopped walnuts, ^2 cup of 
milk, i/o cup grated chocolate, 2 cups of flour, 1 tea- 
spoon each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice, 
beaten whites of eggs and stir into cake batter last. 

Mrs. M. Gale. 



60 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Potato Caramel Cake. 

Two-thirds cup of butter. 2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of 
flour, 1 cup mashed potato (hot), % cup of sweet milk, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Stir in walnuts in 
1 cup of grated chocolate. 1 cup chopped walnuts, 4 
eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 teaspoonful of 
vanilla, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and 
spoon ground cloves. 2 teaspoons cinnamon, % tea 
nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar and yolks of the 
eggs, add the milk, the mashed potato (hot), spice and 
chocolate; sift the baking powder into the flour and 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir the 
flour into the batter, and lastly beat in the whites of 
the eggs ; the nuts are added the last thing before put- 
ting into the oven. This makes a large cake, enough for 
a small loaf and a layer cake, or one big loaf cake. 
Good. 

Alice Claypool. 

Sour Milk Cake. 

Half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 cup 
sour milk, 4 eggs, 1 even teaspoon soda. Add spice and 
fruit if wanted. Rind and juice of 1 lemon. Bake in 
loaf. Half of receipt makes a nice loaf. 

Gold Loaf. 

Eight yolks of eggs. 1 cup granulated sugar, i/o cup 
butter, 1/2 cup milk, iy 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder. Cream butter and sugar. Beat yolks to 
stiff froth and stir thoroughly, put in milk then flour, 
stir hard. 

Mrs. Hege. 

Blackberry Cake. 

Scant 1/2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 egg yolks. 3 table- 
spoons sour milk, 11/2 cups flour, i/o teaspoon ground 
cinnamon, 1/1 teaspoon cloves, % teaspoon nutmeg, 1 
teaspoon soda (measured after sifting), % cup black- 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 61 

berry jam, well beaten whites of 2 eggs. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar, then beat in the yolks of the 
eggs ; add the sour milk, the sifted dry ingredients and 
the jam. Beat well and the very last thing fold in the 
whites of the eggs. Bake in a moderate oven in 3 
small, well greased layer cake pans for about ten 
minutes. Put the layers together with cooked icing 
made as follows : Boil 1 cup sugar with 14 cup water 
until it threads; then gradually pour the syrup upon 
the remaining white of the eggs, well beaten ; while 
adding the syrup to the egg beat constantly. Flavor. 
This cake may be baked in a sheet and served as a 
pudding with a sauce. 

Mrs. E. D. Draper. 

Delicious Jelly Roll. 

Three eggs, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon va- 
nilla, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Bake in large shal- 
low pan, spread with jelly, roll. . 

Mrs. F. S. Williams. 

Sponge Cake. 

Seven eggs, l 1 /^ cups granulated sugar, l 1 /^ cups 
flour, % teaspoon cream tartar. Beat yolks thor- 
oughly ; beat whites about half, add % teaspoon cream 
tartar and beat very stiff. Stir yolks, sugar, flour, add 
whites last. Sift sugar and flour 5 times. 

Sponge Cake. 

Beat whites of 4 eggs in cake bowl, beat yolks in 
another bowl. Beat 1 cup granulated sugar with yolks, 
add to beaten whites and beat again. Add another 
small cup sugar, beat well; add to this 2 cups sifted 
flour, level teaspoon baking powder, % cup boiling 
water, good pinch of salt, flavor to taste. Bake in 
medium oven in flat pan. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. 



62 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Sponge Cake. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 2 cups flour, ^ cup 
water, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 4 eggs, juice of 
1 orange. Beat yolks and whites separaiely. Mix 
sugar and beaten yolks together, sift flour and bak- 
ing powder together several times. Add water and 
orange juice to eggs and sugar, then the whites and 
lastly flour, which must be folded in, not beaten. 

Mrs. W. T. Hook. 

White Sponge. 

One cup pulverized sugar, Y> cup butter, l /2 cup milk, 
3 whites of eggs beaten stiff, 1% cups of flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

Cup Cake. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, % cup of butter, 3 
eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 cup eornstarch, 2 cups flour, 2 
teaspoons baking powder. 

Mrs. Hege. 



Cream Cake. 

One and a half cups sugar, y 2 cup butter, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 4 whites 
of eggs, flavoring; makes 3 layers. 

FILLING One cup sweet milk, 1 beaten egg, ^ cup 
sugar, teaspoon butter, 1 tablespoon cornstarch. Stir 
egg, sugar and cornstarch together, turn into boiling 
milk and cook till thick. Flavor when cool. Very good. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. 

Orange Cake. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 4 tablespoons butter, 7 
tablespoons milk, 3 eggs (save iy 2 whites for filling), 
1 teaspoon baking powder, peel of orange to suit taste. 

FILLING One cup sugar boiled until it will string, 
whites of eggs beaten stiff, add to sugar. Grate orange 
peel and add juice of 1 orange. 

Cora U. Colt. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 63 

Raisin Cake. 

One quarter cup butter or lard, 1 cup sugar, % cup 
milk, 2!/2 teaspoons of baking powder, 2 eggs, % tea- 
spoon vanilla, 1% cups of flour. I 1 /! cups of chopped 
raisins. Cream butter, add sugar gradually, add beaten 
eggs and milk, add flour sifted with baking powder, 
vanilla and raisins. Bake in layer tins about 20 to 
30 minutes. 

FILLING Whip 1% cups of heavy cream until 
stiff, add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, 2t ablespoons powdered 
sugar. 314 cups finely chopped raisins. 

Grace Lohman. 

Good Plain Cake. 

Two cups sugar. % cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 3 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. The white of 
1 egg may be saved out for icing. Bake either in lay- 
ers or as a loaf cake. 

CARAMEL ICING Three cups light brown sugar, 
l /2 cup sweet milk, butter the size of a small egg. Boil 
slowly until it will form a ball when dropped into cold 
water. Add 1 tablespoon vanilla when removed from 
the fire and beat until it begins to cream. 

Mrs. M. R. Matthews. 

Sour Cream Layer Cake. 

Two eggs. 1 cup sugar. 1 cup sour cream. 2 cups 
sifted flour. 1 teaspoon soda. 

MOCHA FILLING Two cups powdered sugar, y 2 
cup butter. 1 teaspoon ground cocoa, 1 teaspoon flavor- 
ing i/t cup strong coffee. Cream butter, sugar and 
oocoa together, then add flavoring and coffee enough 
to make thin enough to spread. Do not put filling on 
cake until the cake is perfectly cold, as a warm cake 
would melt the butter in the filling. 

Mrs. Jennie Howell. 

A Practical Three-Layer Cake. 
One cup sugar, 1-3 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sweet 



64 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

milk, 2y 2 cups flour, 2V 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. Mix in order given, adding 
the beaten whites last. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Delicate Cake. 

Half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, % cup sweet milk. 
3 cups flour sifted twice, 3 small teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, whites of 6 eggs, 1 teaspoonful flavoring. Mix 
in the order given. Bake in shallow pans about 20 
minutes. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

McDonald Cake. 

One cup butter, l 1 /^ cups sugar creamed together, 4 
yolks eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, y> cup milk, ^2 C11 P 
Gornstarch, % cup pastry flour, 1 teaspoon cream tar- 
tar, 1/2 teaspoon soda, whites, 4 eggs. Mix in order 
given. Bake in shallow tins in moderate oven. 

Alyce S. Newton. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two ounces chocolate (4 large tablespoons), 2 egg 
yolks, !/2 cup milk; cook in double boiler till thick; 1 
cup sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, i/o teaspoon soda in a 
little warm water and add to l /o cup of sweet milk, l 1 /^ 
cups flour. Add creamed butter and sugar to paste and 
beat well, then soda and milk with flour alternately. 

FROSTING One cupful sugar, i/2 cup water, 1 egg 
white. Boil sugar and water till it threads from fork. 
Pour into well beaten egg. 

Mrs. S. B. Snyder. 

Sour Cream Cake. 

One cup sugar. 2 eggs, 1 cup sour cream, 2 cups 
flour, 11/2 teaspoons baking powder, % teaspoon soda 
dissolved in boiling water, flavor to taste. Mix sugar 
and eggs well, without beating whites separately, then 
add cream and dry materials. Bake in 3 layers. 

Mrs. Jeter. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 65 

Prune Cake. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, yolks of 3 eggs, 3 table- 
spoons sour milk, 1 cup stewed prunes, 1% cups flour, 

1 level teaspoon baking powder, ^ teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon each cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and' vanilla. 
Bake in 3 layers using whites of. eggs for frosting. 

Mrs. B. W. Kelly. 

White Cake. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, not too 
full, 2-3 cup butter, 2 teaspons baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. Add a 
small pinch of cream of tartar to whites of eggs. 

Mrs. J. H. Cord. 

White Cake. 

One and a half cups sugar, i/o cup butter, % cup milk, 
I 1 /? cup flour, !/2 cup cornstarch, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, whites of 6 eggs. Bake in 

2 layers with frosting. 

Mrs. T. L. Lane. 

White Cake. 

One cup sugar, !/2 scant cup butter, y 2 cup milk or 
water, 2 cups flour, whites 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking 
( powder, extract. 

Mrs. Stewart. 

Delicate Cake. 

Half cup butter, 2 cups ugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2% 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, and the whites 
of 4 eggs, flavor to taste. 

ICING Two cups sugar, 8 tablespoons milk, butter 
the size of a walnut. Boil till it forms a soft ball in 
cold water, pour into platter. When cool, beat until 
white and spread on cake. Add flavoring as desired. 

Mrs. McKelvey. 



66 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Economical Layer Cake. 

One cup fine granulated sugar, i/4 cup "Cottosuet," 
2-3 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2 even cups unsifted flour, 
2 rounding teaspoons baking powder, *4 teaspoon salt. 
Stir sugar, "Cottosuet" and salt to a smooth cream, 
break eggs into side of dish and beat until light, grad- 
ually working in the sugar. Sift flour and baking pow- 
der together three times. Ad milk and flour in small 
portions alternating till all is used. Flavor to taste. 
This makes 2 large or 3 small layers. 

Mrs. William Gregory. 

Fig Cake. 

Two cups sugar, 1 small cup butter, 2 cups jam, 6 
eggs, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 4 cups flour, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, nutmeg and cinnamon to 
taste. Half of entire recipe makes 3 layers. 

Mrs. Hege. 

Devil's Food Cake. 

I. Three-quarters cup grated chocolate, % cup sweet 
milk, % cup dark brown sugar. II. Half cup butter, 
1 cup dark brown sugar, y 2 cup sweet milk, 2 cups 
flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Cook part I till thick. Cool and stir slowly into part 
II. Bake in 3 layers or in loaf. Be careful in mixing. 

Mrs. Charles B. Hammond. 

Orange Layer Cake. 

Half cup butter melted, 1 egg, 1 cupful sugar, 2 
cups flour, 2 teaspoon fuls baking powder, 2-3 cup milk. 
Beat egg lightly, add sugar, then butter, mix well. 
Sift flour and baking powder alternately with the milk. 
Flavor with lemon extract. This will make 3 layers. 

FILLING One tablespoon butter, 1 cup XX confec- 
tioner's sugar, yolk 1 egg, juice 1 orange. Work the 
butter until very soft, sift into it the sugar and mix 
will until half is used and add the egg, then work in 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 67 

remainder of sugar and orange juice. Use your own 
judgment as to how much juice is needed to spread. 

ICING Mix pulverized sugar with the white of the 
egg for the top of the cake. 

Mrs. H. B. Brace. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups brown sugar, 2 squares of chocolate melted 
over the teakettle, then stir it in the sugar, % cup of 
butter, 2 eggs (save white of one for frosting), 1 cup 
sweet milk, 1 small teaspoon of soda sifted 4 times 
with 2 even cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of vanilla. 

Miss Vera DeForest. 

Maud 8. Cake. 

Make a custard of S tablespoonfuls of grated choco- 
late, 5 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar and % cup 
of milk, boil until a little thick and let cool. 

CAKE Half cup of butter, 1% cups of brown sugar, 
stir well and add 3 eggs, dropping 1 at a time, beat 
well, take % cup flour with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, then pour in custard, stir well and add to^all 
1% cups of flour and % cup of milk, flavor with va- 
nilla. Bake in 3 layers. 

FILLING One cup of granulated sugar, % cup 
milk. Let boil until it drops from spoon in strings. 
Pour into bowl and add 1 teaspoon of flour. Beat a 
few minutes and let stand until cool and thick enough 
+o spread on cake without running. Or plain boiled 
icing will answer. 

Alice Claypool. 

One, Two, Three, Four Cake. 

One cup of butter, 2 cups sugar. 3 cups flour, 4 eggs. 
1 cup of milk. 2 teaspoons baking powder, i/o teaspoon 
each of vanilla and lemon extract. Good for solid or 
any layer cake. 

Mrs. S. B. Snyder. 



68 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Prune Cake. 

One teacup prunes stewed thoroughly, remove pits 
and run through grinder ; 1 cup sugar and % cup but- 
ter creamed together. Break 2 eggs into this and beat 
until light, add 1 heaping teaspoon nutmeg, cinnamon. 
% teaspoon allspice, cloves, 4 heaping teaspoons coeoa. 
add chopped prunes, 1 teacup sour cream in which is 
dissolved 1 teaspoon soda, 1% cups flour, 2 heaping 
teaspoons baking powder, vanilla. Bake in three lay- 
ers, in moderate oven twelve minutes. Add 1 cupp cur- 
rants or raisins, as desired, making icing of powdered 
sugar and orange juice. 

Mrs. Carrie Stone Freeman. 

Layer Cake. 

One and a half cups flour, 1 cup sugar. 4 'ablespoons 
of melted butter, yolks of 2 eggs, white of 1 egg. milk. 
2 teaspoons of baking powder, flavoring. Sift the flonr, 
sugar and baking powder together 4 or 5 times. Beat 
the eggs, add the melted butter to eggs, put in cup 
and fill cup with milk. Mix wet ingredients into dry 
ingredients and add sufficient milk to make a rather 
thin batter, add flavoring and bake about twenty 
minutes. 

ICING To 1 cup of sugar add four tablespoons of 
water, boil slowly until it hairs, beat into the well 
beaten white of one egg, add a few drops of flavoring 
and beat until cold before putting on cake. 

Miss Mabel Harris. 

Golden Cream Cake. 

Half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 
cups flour, 4 level teaspoons baking powder, whites of 
4 eggs, 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Measure on the level. 
Cream butter and sugar, add milk, sift flour and bak- 
ing powder 3 times, add alternately with the well 
beaten whites of eggs, add vanilla, bake in 3 layers. 

ICING One cup of sweet milk and 1 tablespoon of 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 69 

butter, put in the double boiler; blend 2 level table- 
spoons of cornstarch with 1 cup sugar, add the well 
beaten yolks of the 4 eggs, stir into the boilng milk 
until it thickens ; take from the fire and add the grated 
yellow rind and the juice of 1 lemon. When cold 
spread between the layers. Ice the top and sides with 
plain icing. 

Mrs. John A. Cottle. 

Sunshine Cake. 

White part, 1 layer Whites of 5 eggs, % cup sugar, 
l /2 cup flour sifted twice, small teaspoon cream tartar, 
1 teaspoohful vanilla, a little salt. 

Yellow part, 2 layers Yolks of 5 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 
1 1-3 cups flour, a /2 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful 
cream, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, ^ teaspoonful soda, little 
salt. 

Put together with icing; if bread flour is used, a 
little scant. 

ICING One and a half cups sugar, 5 tablespoons 
milk, a little hot water. Boil until it will wax in 
water, set in a pan of water until cool, then stir until 
white and creamy, when ready to put on cake add a 
little water. 

Mrs. F. E. Harvey. 

Marshmallows on Cake. 

Heat marshmallows in oven. When puffed, arrange 
on top of cake and pour boiled frosting over them. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 



70 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



Los Angeles, Cal. 

Dear Friend :- 

In regard to your question as 
to which is the more important and 
healthful, a GOOD COOK or a GOOD 
AUTOMOBILE, I must say this is rather a 
delicate question to decide. 

We all know that a poor cook 
means ruined stomachs, bad tempers 
and a broken home ; a poor automobile 
racks the nerves, tries the temper 
and the result is often a break down, 
with perhaps permanent injury or 
death. On the other hand, a good cook 
means, good health, pleasant dis- 
positions and a happy home ; a good 
automobile relieves nerve tension, 
invigorates the whole system and is a 
joy forever. 

Now the question arises, where 
can such cooks and such an automobile 
be found? 

In reading this book you find 
the cooks. The automobile, well, 
there is only one that I could recom- 
mend: that one is the Moline. Wm. 
Gregory sells it at 602 N. Main St. 
Los Angeles. You will find this 
machine perfection itself. 

You can't make a mistake in buy- 
ing one. 

Very truly yours 



72 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



REAL ESTATE 
315 DOUGLAS BLDG. LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

Phones West 360 Home 72716 

H. E. SMITH'S GROCERY 

A Store well filled with the 

best the marKet affords.... 

2311 S. VERMONT AVE. LOS ANGELES 



-PHONE WEST 5144 HOME 72858- 



Just remember when you want anything from the drug store in a hurry to 
telephone us. Goods will be selected carefully and delivered "RUSH" 
at no extra cost to you. This service is for you use it. 

WILBUR W. KEIM 

PRESCRIPTION PHARMACIST 

189O W. WASHINGTON ST. LOS ANGELES. CAL. 



F. C. KINGSTON 

758 S. HILL ST. 

LOS ANGELES 
Southern California Sales Agency 

Duntley Pneumatic Cleaners 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 73 



Centennial Cookies. 

One and a half cups sugar. 2-3 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 
teaspoon soda dissolved in 4 tablespoonfuls of sweet 
milk, 1 teacup raisins (seeded and chopped fine), spice 
with ground cinnamon and cloves, 1 heaping teaspoon- 
ful baking powder in flour; flavor with lemon to taste. 
Flour enough to roll easily. 

Mrs. McKnight. 

Scottish Fancies. 

One egg, ^ cup sugar, 2-3 tablespoon melted butter, 
2-3 cup rolled oats. % cup cocoanut, 1-3 teaspoon salt, 
l /4 teaspoon vanilla. Add all together and put in a 
pan, 1 teaspoonful in a place, bake until brown. Take 
out of pan onto flat surface to cool. 

Miss Vera DeForest. 

Nut Cookies. 

Four eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup wal- 
nuts, 2-3 cup butter, flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Honey Cookies. 

One and a half cups butter, 2 cups brown sugar, 2 
cups honey, 4 eggs, spice, nuts, % teaspoon of soda, 
flour to make it stiff. 

Sour Cream Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 2 eggs, nutmeg 
and lemon extract if desired, 1 ; teaspoon soda, flour 
enough to mix. 

Mrs. Hegre. 



74 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Hard Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sour milk, 1 
level teaspoon soda, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon lemon flavoring. 
Cream butter and sugar, add the egg, then sour milk 
and soda with enough flour to make a dough as soft as 
can be handled. Roll very thin and bake in floured 
pan. 

Cookies. 

Three eggs, l 1 /^ cups sugar. 1 cup butter and lard. 
salt, 11/2 teaspoon baking powder, flour enough to make 
soft dough. Melt butter, stir in sugar, then eggs, flour, 
baking powder and essence. 

Cora U. Colt. 

Hermits. 

Three eggs, 1 cup butter, 1% cups sugar, 1 cup 
chopped seeded raisins, very little chopped citron, 1 
teaspoon each of cloves, allspice and cinnamon, flour 
enough to roll. Cut in rounds. 

Cora U. Colt 



Fingers. 

One-quarter pint sugar and three eggs beat until 
very stiff. Mix in quickly, without beating, ^ pint 
flour. Put into funnel of paper, squeeze out into lady 
fingers on paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar. Bake 
in quick oven, dampen back of paper, pull off, put to- 
gether two and two. 

Ginger Wafers. 

One cup brown sugar, 1 cup molasses. 1 cup but- 
ter or lard, % cup made coffee. 2 teaspoonfuls soda, 
1 tablespoonful ginger. Roll very thin. Excellent. 

Rolled Oat Cookies. 

One cup lard, 1 cup brown sugar, 2 eggs, 2 table- 
spoons milk, 1/4 teaspoon soda dissolved in little warm 
water, 1 cup flour, 3 cups rolled oats, 1 teaspoonful 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 75 

each of nutmeg, cinnamon and vanilla, 1 cup of wal- 
nuts sliced with knife. Mix well and let stand 1 hour 
before baking. Drop on ungreased pan with teaspoon. 

Mrs. M. Gale. 

Oatmeal Cookies. 

One cup sugar, % cup butter creamed, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, scant ^ teaspoon 
salt ; (no liquid) ; 2^ cups dry oatmeal, 2 cups flour. 
% teaspoon soda sifted in flour, 1 cup chopped raisins. 
Place a teaspoonful of mixture on unbuttered tins, like 
macaroons; moderate oven. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 

Oatmeal Cookies. 

One tablespoon butter, % cup sugar, 1 cup rolled 
oats, 1 egg. Drop on buttered pan and bake. 

Mrs. O. Stewart. 

Oatmeal Cookies. . 

One and a half cups sugar. 3 packed cups oatmeal. 
2-3 cup shortening, 1 cup sweet milk. 1 level teaspoon 
soda dissolved in milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla, enough flour 
to roll. Roll thin and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. John T. Stivers. 

Soft Hermits. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup ' ' Cottosuet, " 1 egg, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 cup sour milk. 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, 1 teaspoon cloves, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 
pinch salt, 4 cups sifted flour. Mix well and drop from 
teaspoon into buttered pan and make in not too hot 
an oven. 

Mrs. F. 8. Williams 

Kringles. 

One cup butter, 1 cup sweet cream, 1 teaspoon bak- 
ing powder sifted into a quart of flour, mix flour and 
cream, and softened butter; roll very thin and spread 



76 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

butter on top, fold together and roll; repeat 3 or 4 
times, lastly roll about l / inch in thickness, cut into 
strips % inch wide and form into the figure 8, dip in 
sugar, bake brown in quick oven. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Eggless Cookies. 

Three cups sugar, 1 cup shortening creamed together, 
pint sweet milk, % ounce carbamonia dissolved in the 
milk, 1 tablespoon baking powder mixed in 5 of flour. 
Beat well. Flavor to suit taste, knead in enough flour 
to make stiff dough, roll thin and bake in quick oven. 
Will make 3 gallons cookies. Improve with age. 

Mrs. James M. Davison. 

Marguerites. 

One cupful granulated sugar, 1-3 cupful water. Boil 
together until stiff, not brittle, when tried in cold 
water. Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth. Turn 
on the boiling syrup, beating hard until it creams. 
Mix 1 large cup of walnut meats into the cream and 
spread on Saratoga wafers. Especially nice for 
luncheon. 

Mrs. John T. Stivers 

Boston Cookies. 

One cup butter, 1% cups sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
soda, li/2 tablespoon hot water, 3*4 cups flour, ^2 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup nut meats, !/2 
cup currants, 1-3 cup raisons, seeded and chopped. 
Cream butter, add sugar slowly and eggs well beaten, 
and soda dissolved in the hot water. Add % the flour 
mixed and sifted with salt and cinnamon. Then add 
the remaining flour with nuts and fruit. Drop by 
spoonful on a greased pan and bake. 

Cocoanut Cookies. 
Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 1 cup shredded 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 77 

cocoanut, ^ teaspoon soda, 2 tablespoonfuls sour milk, 
flour to roll. 

Mrs. F. E. Harvey. 

Scotch Cake. 

One pound of brown sugar, 1 pound of flour. y 2 
pound of butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Roll 
very thin and bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. Burson 

Chocolate Squares. 

Half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, % cup flour, 1 
cup English walnuts (chopped), 2 squares chocolate 
(add last thing). Spread thin on buttered tins, bake 
about 15 minutes and cut in squares while hot. 

A Friend 

Rocks. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour (sifted), 
3 eggs, 1 Ib. seeded raisins (chopped), 1 Ib. walnuts 
(chopped), 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
!/2 teaspoon baking powder. Mix sugar and butter to- 
gether, break in eggs one at a time, add flour and bak- 
ing powder, cinnamon and flavoring, nuts and raisins. 
Drop on butter tins about size of walnuts and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

cTWrs. D. E. Ferguson 

Doughnuts. 

Three eggs beaten very light, 1% cups fine granu- 
lated sugar. 1 cup sour cream (heavy), 2 cups sour 
milk, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder, 1 even tea- 
spoon soda. 1 even teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon, 
V-i teaspoon cloves, l /o teaspoon nutmeg, flour to roll 
soft. Fry in hot fat. " 

c/Wrs. Sylvia Grossman 

Raised Doughnuts. 

One tepcpp milk, 1% teacups hot water, y 2 - teacup 
lard, 1 teaspoon salt; 2-3 cup soft yeast; thicken with 



78 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK' 

Hour. Let this get very light, then add I cup sugar, 
2 eggs, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, */ teaspoon soda. Mix 
stiff and let s and over night. Roll in morning, and 
when light cut and fry in hot "Silver Leaf Lard." Be- 
fore serving, roll in pulverized sugar. 

Mrs. C. E. Hammond. 

Fine Crullers. 

One cup sour cream, 1 level teaspoon soda, 1% cups 
powdered sugar, 5 eggs, beaten separately, flour enough 
to roll, cut thin and fry in deep fat. 

oTVfrs. Burson 

Crullers. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, butter size of wal- 
nut, 3 eggs, 1 even teaspoon soda, little cinnamon and 
nutmeg, flour as thick as for jumbles. Stir butter and 
sugar together ; when creamed add eggs, then flour and 
sour milk. Roll out, cut in rings and boil in lard until 
nicely browned. While still hot, roll in powdered 
sugar. 

A Friend 

Potato Crullers. 

Half cup mashed potatoes mixed well with same 
amount of sweet milk, pinch of salt, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, flour to roll ; fry in strips in deep fat. 
Serve with maple syrup. 

Mrs. S. B. Snyder. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 79 



''Who'll dare deny the truth. 
There's Poetry in pie?" 

Pastry for One Pie. 

One cup sifted flour, 1 heaping tablespoon "Suet- 
ene," a little salt. Rub the shortening in the flour, use 
cold water enough to form into a dough, then roll out 
the under crust and put on the pie tin. Roll out the 
upper crust and put bits of butter on , it not sparingly 
dust it with flour, fold and roll repeat. If you wish 
it very nice, repeat third time, folding in opposite ways 
each time. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 

Pastry Enough for One Pie. 

One pint flour, 2 tablespoons of ''Silver Leaf Lard." 
3 tablespoons of water, pinch of salt. 

Mrs. T. L. Lane. 

Cream Pie. 

One cup sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon flour, 
1 tablespoon water, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Cook until it thickens; then put into baked 
crust ; use whites of eggs beaten with a little sugar on 
the top. 

Mrs. McKnight. 

Lemon Cream Pie. 

Three eggs. 5 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 tablespoons of 
flour, 1 lemon (grated yellow rind and juice). Blend 
thoroughly the sugar, flour and grated lemon rind. 
Add the well beaten yolks of eggs, beat until very light. 



8o THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Put milk and butter in a double boiler, and when boil- 
ing hot add the well beaten mixtures; stir until it 
thickens; pour into a rich crust that has been previ- 
ously baked; spread the well beaten whites (with 3 
teaspoonfuls of sugar and a little lemon juice) on 
top of the pie and brown lightly in the oven. This is 
delicious. 

Mrs. John A. Cottle 

Lemon Pie. 

One len^on (juice and grated rind), 4 eggs, 1 cup 
sugar. Cook in double boiler, yolks of eggs and 34 
cup sugar. When thick remove from fire and add 
beaten whites of 2 eggs. Use remaining l / cup sugar 
and 2 egg whites for meringue. 

Mrs. S. B. Snyder. 

Lemon Pie. (For 2 Pies.) 

Four eggs (save 1 white for top of pie), 2 cups of 
sugar, 2 tablespoonsfuls flour (large), 2 cups of hot 
water. y 2 glass lemon juice, grated rind of 2 lemons, 
piece of butter twice size of walnut. Bake crust be- 
fore putting in custard. Beat the white of eggs with 
2 1 ablespoonf uls of sugar, and put on top. Bake a 
light brown. 



s. Kinney 



Lemon Pie. 



One cup boiling water. 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, l 1 /^ 
tablespoons cornstarch, 1 lemon, biitter size of a wal- 
nut: put water, sugar and butter on stove, and when 
boiling add cornstarch previously dissolved in a little 
warm water. Next add the yolks of eggs and then the 
grated rind and juice of lemon. Line the pie pan with 
a rich pastry and bake first, then fill with the custard 
and put on the whites of the eggs and brown. 

Cora U. Colt 



THE. MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 81 

Lemon Pie. 

Half cup fine bread crumbs, just enough milk to swell 
them, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 2 of butter, 
juice of 1 lemon, grated rind of two. Beat sugar and 
butter to a cream, add beaten eggs and lemon juice, 
and last, the bread and milk. Partially bake the crust. 
Keep out the whites of the eggs for meringue, if pre- 
ferred. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 

Raisin Pie. 

Cream, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 scant cup of sugar, 
yolks of 2 eggs! cover cup of raisins with water and 
boil until soft; then mix and flavor; use whites with 
sugar for top. 

Mrs. McKnight. 

Southern Pie. 

Chop 1 cup cranberries. 1 cup seeded raisins, and 1 
cup mixed nuts and figs together. Then stir in 1 cup 
granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon of flour, a saltspoon of 
salt, % of a cup of water, and 1 teaspoon of Vanilla. 
Scatter chopped nuts over the top and bake in upper 
and lower crust. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 

Raisin Pie. 

One coffee cup chopped raisins, 1 cup cream, 1 cup 
brown sugar, 1 tablespoon ^ornstarch. 1 egg, flavor 
with vanilla. Cook the raisins in the cream until 
tender. Add other ingredients and bake in double 
crust. 

Mrs. M. R. Matthews. 

< 

Mock Cherry Pie. 

One cupful cranberries cut in halves or chopped, % 
cup seeded raisins chopped fine, 1 tablespoon flour 



82 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

mixed with 1 cup sugar ; pour on y 2 cup boiling water, 
add teaspoon vanilla. Bake in double crust. 

Mrs. F. E. Harvey. 

Banana Pie. 

Mix together !/2 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons flour, 
add 2 cups of sweet milk and yolks of 2 eggs, flavoring. 
Cook in double boiler until thick. Bake an open crust. 
Cut a banana in fine pieces and put thickly over bottom 
of crust. Add the cooked filling and the beaten whites 
of the egges placed on the top. * Bake in a hot oven 
until the whites are brown. 

Mrs. White. 

Caramel Pie (two pies). 

One cup dark brown sugar, 1 cup granulated sugar, 
4 heaping tablespoons flour, yolks of 2 eggs. Mix all 
together and add gradually one quart of water, 1/2 
tablespoon butter and vanilla to taste. Cook until it 
thickens. 

FROSTING Whites of two eggs beaten stiff, add 
2 ^ablespoons brown sugar. Bake with one crust. 

Mrs. C. E. Rice 

Cream Pie. 

One cup sugar, butter size of small walnut, yolks of 
two eggs, pinch of salt, 2 small tablespoons flour, V 2 
teaspoon lemon extract, 2 cups hot water. Cook in 
double boiler. Fill a previously baked crust and cover 
with meringue made with whites of 2 eggs and 2 table- 
spoons sugar, pinch of salt, and !/4 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mrs. Furgeson 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 83 



"Man shall not live by bread alone." 

Marshn: allow Cream Pudding. 

One tablespoonful granulated gelatine dissolved in 1/2 
cup of cold water; put it over the fire and bring to a 
boil, stirring constantly. Take it oft 6 and stir in 1 
cupful of cold water; let it stand while you beat the 
whites of 4 eggs to a standing froth; add to this 1 
cupful of sugar and the gelatine. Beat steadily until 
it begins to thicken. Stir into it 2 teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla, and 1 cupful of chopped English walnuts. 
\Yhen very thick form into molds ami set upon ice. 
Serve with whipped cream and candied cherries. This 
recipe makes enough for ten people. 

Mrs. Jeter. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding. 

Two ounces (4 tablespoons or 1 square) of chocolate, 
3 level teaspoons corn starch mixed with 6 tablespoons 
cold water, 1 pint boiling water, whites of 3 eggs, % 
cup of sugar. Pour boiling water on to cornstarch and 
cook a little. Add chocolate, then sugar, and cook 
until chocolate becomes dissolved in mixture. Pour 
onto beaten whites of eggs and mold in dish. 

SAUCE Mix together 1 tablespoon cornstarch and 
2 tablespoons cold water, then 1 pint scalded milk, add 
1 cup sugar. 2 ounces chocolate and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Miss Vera DeForest. 

Fig Pudding. 

Two pounds figs washed, dried and minced; 3 cups 
fine bread crumbs, 4 eggs, 2-3 cup powdered suet. 2 
cups milk, 2-3 cup white sugar, a pinch of soda dis- 



84 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

solved in hot water and stirred in the milk, a little 
salt. Soak the crumbs in the milk, stir in the eggs, 
well beaten; beat all ingredients three minutes. Put 
in bag and steam 3 hours. Eat hot with brandy sauce. 

Mrs. Gilmer 

Fruit Pudding. 

Beat the whites of 6 eggs very s'iff; add 6 table- 
spoons granulated sugar, 1 cup blanched almonds, l /z 
cup candied cherries, juice of 1 orange. 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Cut the pineapple from 1 can in little cubes 
and add 1 "ablespoon Fnox's granulated gelatine, 
soaked in enough pineapple juice to soak, then add a 
very little hot water, just enough to dissolve gelatine. 
Then add to the rest and put in mold. Serve with 
\\hipped cream with cherries dotted around. 

Mrs. W. H. DeForest 

Prune Whip. 

One-third pound of prunes, ^ cup sugar, whites of 
5 eggs, % tablespoon lemon juice. Cook prunes till 
soft, chop fine, add sugar and cook 5 minutes. Beat 
whites of eggs till very stiff, add prune mixture grad- 
ually when cold. Pile lightly in buttered pudding mold 
;m:l bake 20 minutes in slow oven. 

Miss Hanvey, Hollywood, Cal. 

Pudding. 

One tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, % cup 
1 i 1 !'. 1 r up raisins, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Thicken 
'nth flour and steam. 

Apricot Pudding. 

Butter dish and fill with apricots (either canned or 
fresh) to depth of 2 inches, season with butter, sugar 
and cinnamon. Cover with rich biscuit dough and 
bake till brown. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 85 

Apple Fool. 

Stew 6 large apples and rub through the colander. 
^Yhile hot, stir into them a tablespoonful oi melted 
butter, a cupful, of sugar, and the yolks of 2 eggs, 
well beaten. Whip all together until light. Put in 
fruit dish and spread on the top the beaten whites 
mixed with 3 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Any tart fruit 
is nice made in this manner. 

Mrs. L. G. Hoyt. 

Apple Dumplings (special). 

Mix 1 cup of sugar and 1 tablespoon flour with cold 
water t-o the consistency of cream. Then add 1 pint 
boiling water. Boil and add 1 tablespoon butter and 
flavor. Peal, core and chop six large apples. Make 
rich biscuit dough and roll in sheet. Spread apples on 
dough, sugar and add cinnamon. Eoll and cut into 
slices. Place in pan, cover with half the sauce and 
bake and serve hot with remainder of sauce. 

Mrs. E, G. Taylor 

Rhubard Pudding. 

Chop rhubarb pretty fine, put in a pudding dish and 
sprinkle sugar over it ; make a batter of 1 cupful of 
sour milk, 2 eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, and enough flour to make 
a batter about as thick as for cake. Spread over the 
rhubarb and bake. When done, turn out on the platter 
upside down. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. L. G. Hoyt 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup of suet, 1 cup of raisins. 1 cup of molasses, 
1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, % teaspoon cinna- 
mon, % teaspoon nutmeg, pinch of salt, flour enough 
to make like cake dough. Steam three hours. 

Mrs. Carrie Smyser 



86 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Steamed Suet Pudding. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup finely chopped suet, 1 cup 
milk, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspo'on each 
of cinnamon, cloves and nutmegs, 1 cup stoned raisins, 
currants, nuts and citron if wished. Steam 3 or 4 hours. 

SAUCE Eight tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 
2 tablespoons butter, vanilla. Pour on boiling water. 
and thicken. 

Mrs. E. W. Kelly. 

Brown Pudding. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. % cup cold water, 1 cup molasses 
(light New Orleans), T-/O teaspoon each of spices, cin- 
namon and cloves, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1/2 cup 
hot water. Dissolve soda in hot water. Add molasses, 
then flour and spices alternately with cold water, and 
eggs last. Steam 1 hour. 

SAUCE Whites 2 eggs well beaten, % cup sugar, 
% cup butter. Melt butter and sugar together and 
add whites. Flavor to taste. 

Mrs. S. B. Snyder. 

Apple Pudding. 

Pare and chop 6 tart apples, butter a pudding dish, 
put in a layer of fine bread crumbs, add bits of butter, 
then a layer of apples with sugar and nutmeg; re- 
peat until the dish is full, finishing with bread crumbs. 
Pour over the whole a teacup of hot water, bake half 
an hour and serve with any preferred sauce. 

Mrs. C. W. Cord. 

Steam Pudding. 

One and a half cups raisins, 1 cup beef suet, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 egg, 1 cup syrup. 1 level teaspoon soda, 
1 cup nuts, flour for stiff batter. Steam 2 hours. 

SAUCE Three cups boiling water, 1 tablespoon 
cornstarch, butter size of walnut, 1 cup sugar, salt and 
flavoring. 

Mrs. Stewart. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 87 

Eggless Plum Pudding. 

One heaping cup bread crumbs, 2 cups flour, 1 cup of 
suet chopped fine, 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup of molasses. 
1 cup of sweet milk, 1 teaspoon each of soda, salt, 
cloves and cinnamon. Fill baking powder cans a little 
more than, half full, set in kettle of hot water and 
boil steadily for 2% hours. 

Mrs. C. W. Cord. 
Mrs. J. H. Cord. 

English Steam Pudding. 

One cup half filled with molasses and finished with 
brown sugar, 1 cup half filled with butter and finished 
with chopped suet ; 1 cup raisins. 1 cup sweet milk, 
3 cups flour. 1 teaspoon soda, i. egg, pinch of salt. 
Put this into a well greased pudding pan, and place in 
a steamer; do not remove cover while pudding is 
steaming. Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. McKnight. 

Foam Sauce (for above). 

One and a quarter cups of sugar. 14 cnp butter, yolk 
of 1 egg. Beat well together, then add the white of 
the egg beaten very stiff, flavor to taste, then pour 1 
cup of boiling water over it just before serving.' 

Mrs. J. P. McKnight. 

English Plum Pudding. 

Half pound of stale bread crumbs, 1 cup scalded 
milk, 14 lb. granulated sugar, 4 eggs, y 2 Ib. raisins cut 
in pieces and floured, VA lb. currants. 2 oz. finely cut 
citron, 14 lb. finely chopped figs, % U>- suet chopped 
fine, !/4 cup wine, l /i cup brandy. % grated nutmeg, 
l /2 lb- almonds blanched and chopped fine, 94 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1-3 teaspoon cloves, 1-3 teaspoon mace, 1^ 
teaspoons salt. Soak bread crumbs in milk, let -stand 
until cool, add sugar, beaten yolk of 3 eggs, raisins, 
currants, figs, citron, almonds, chopped suet and cream 



88 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

by using the hand. Combine mixtures, add wine, 
brandy and spices and whites of eggs beaten stiff. 
Turn in buttered mold and steam six hours. Serve 
with brandy sauce, or hard sauce. 

Mrs. Hanvey, Hollywood 

Hard Sauce. 

One-third cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1-3 tea- 
spoon lemon juice or extract, 2-3 teaspoon vanilla. 
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and flavoring. 

Mrs. Hanvey. Hollywood 

Snow Pudding. 

To 1 quart of milk add whites of 3 eggs well beaten, 
2 tablespoons of cornstarch (dissolved in a little wa- 
ter), !/2 cup sugar, pi^ch salt. Put all in double boiler 
and cook until thick. Flavor with vanilla. 

SAUCE To 1 pint of milk add the yolks of 3 eggs, 
Mi cup of sugar. Cook in double boiler and flavor 
with vanilla. Cook until a nice smooth custard. 

Mrs. C. P. Modie. 

Date Pudding. 

Half pound dates washed and chopped, 2 cups 
wheat flakes, 3 eggs, % cup brown sugar, */2 cup 
chopped suet, flour enough to dredge fruit and suet. 

Part II Two tablespoons molasses, ^ teaspoon soda, 
juice of 1 lemon. Mix the two parts and steam 3 hours. 
Hard sauce or whipped cream. 

Mrs. F. E. Harvey. 

Dandy Pudding. 

One quart milk, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, ^ 
cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Put the milk on to 
boil. Moisten the cornstarch with a little cold milk 
and add to the boiling milk. Stir constantly and boil 
5 minutes. Beat the yolks of eggs and sugar together 
until light, then add to boiling milk. Take from the 
fire, add flavoring and pour into a baking dish. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 2 table- 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 89 

spoons powdered sugar and heap on top of the pud- 
ding, set in oven until light brown. Serve ice cold. 

Mrs. John T. Stivers. 

Steamed Pudding. 

One cup of black molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup 
finely chopped suet, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup coarsely 
chopped nuts, % cup citron cut small, % cup currants, 
1 finely grated carrot, 1 level teaspoon each of soda, 
cinnamon and salt, % teaspoon each of nutmeg and 
cloves, heaping teaspoon vanilla, about 3 cups of sifted 
flour. Steam 3 hours and serve with liquid or hard 
sauce. 

Miss Florence Clayton. 

Apple Fritters. 

Make a batter with 1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Cover chopped apples with batter and fry in deep fat. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Make a rich pie paste. Pare and core the apples, 
filling the cavities with sugar, and if preferred a flav- 
oring of cinnamon or nutmeg. Enclose the apples sep- 
arately in the pieces of paste, put into a deep pan and 
pour over the following sauce : 

SAUCE Three cups water, % cup sugar, butter the 
size of an egg. Thicken this with 2 level teaspoons of 
flour. Bake in moderate oven until apples are tender. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 



90 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



"Dainty things for dainty people." 

Fruit Relish. 

Eight oranges, 3 lemons, 4 bananas, 3 grape fruit, 1 
small can grated pineapple. Sweeten to taste. 

Mrs. F. C. Webber 

Breakfast Dish. 

Wash, core and chop nice apples, fill the dishes, 
sprinkle with chopped nuts and sugar, and serve with 
cream. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 

Grape Juice Sponge. 

One pint juice, 2 tablespoons tapioca, cold water, 1 
cup sugar, lemon juice, whites of 2 eggs. Heat grape 
juice, soak tapioca, then add to juice with % teaspoon 
of lemon juice. Cook until tapioca becomes transpar- 
ent. When partly cold add whites of eggs beaten stiff. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 

Miss Vera DePorest. 

Lemon Soufle. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 
cup sugar, whites of 4 eggs. Beat whites and yolks 
separate, add sugar and rind to yolks, then add lemon. 
Cut whites into mixture after having beaten them stiff. 
Put in baking dish and place dish in pan of cold water. 
Do not let water boil. Bake for twenty-five minutes 
and serve in baking dish. Do not let a draught touch it. 

Miss Vera De Forest. 

Banana Snow. 
Take 6 good ripe bananas, not dark. Cut and slice, 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 91 

then mash as fine as possible. Add juice of 1 lemon, 
the white of 1 egg (whipped). Whip bananas, lemon 
juice and egg togeiher. The longer you whip the more 
banana snow you will have. When nearly done add 
2 spoonfuls of sugar and whip until sugar is dissolved. 
When ready to serve add chopped walnuts on top. 

Mrs. Gilmer 

Bavarian Cream. 

One pint cream, 1 cup milk, ^ cup sugar, 1 box gel- 
atine, 1 square chocolate. Soak gelatine in % cup milk. 
Whip cream stiff. Melt chocolate, add 2 tablespoons 
of sugar to it, put in pan with 1 tablespoon of boiling 
water, stir over fire till smooth. Have the remaining 
~y-2 cup milk hot. Stir chocolate into it and add gelatine 
and rest of sugar. Beat the mixture till it begins to 
thicken, add whipped cream, mix and put in cold place. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Gilmer 

Spanish Cream. 

Half box Knox gelatine, 1 quart milk, 4 eggs, 8 table- 
spoons sugar. Soak gelatine in milk. Put over fire 
and stir until dissolved. Add yolks of eggs and 4 table- 
spoons of sugar thoroughly beaten. Stir until it comes 
to boiling point. Remove from stove and have whites 
of eggs well beaten with 4 tablespoons of sugar. Add 
whites, stirring briskly until thoroughly mixed. Flavor 
with vanilla and pour into molds. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Mrs. O. P. Lockhart. 

Strawberry Charlotte. 

Make boiled custard of 1 pint of milk, yolks of 3 
eggs, yo cup sugar, 1 tablespoon of cornstarch, flavor- 
ing to taste. Line a glass dish with lady fingers dipped 
in sweet cream ; lay upon these ripe strawberries sweet- 
ened with powdered sugar ; then layer cake and straw- 



92 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

berries as before. Just before serving pour over whole 
the cold custard. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth 
with 3 tablespoons of powdered sugar and spread over 
top. Decorate with large berries. 

Mrs. J. M. Woodruft. 

Date Forte. 

One cup sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup chopped dates, 1 cup 
walnuts, 2y 2 tablespoons flour. 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der. Flour the nuts and dates. Beat sugar and eggs 
very lightly, add flour, then dates and nuts alternately. 
Bake in moderate oven, serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Shortcake. 

Three scant cups flour, 1 cup sugar, pinch salt, 3 
level teaspoons baking powder, 1-3 cup butter, milk 
to form soft dough. 

Mrs. E. W. Kelly 

Delicious Dessert. 

Pare the peaches carefully, halve them and remove 
stones. Chop fine an equal quantity of almonds and 
English walnuts. Fill the openings from which the 
stones were taken with the chopped nuts. Fasten the 
halves together with tiny skewers or wooden tooth- 
picks, sprinkle 4 or 5 tablespoons sugar over them and 
set in a saucepan with just enough water to keep from 
burning. Steam 10 minutes, then set away to cool. 
Chill thoroughly and serve cold with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. Harvey. 

Spanish Cream. 

Half box Knox's gelatine soaked in 1 cup milk. Put 
another cup milk on the stove and when hot stir in 5 
tablespoons of sugar, the soaked gelatine, and the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs. As soon as it begins to thicken 
take from the fire and stir in the whites beaten to a 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 93 

stiff froth, flavor with vanilla, pour into a mold to 
cool. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Mrs. M. R. Matthews. 

Baked Apples. 

Select large even sized apples, core with thin knife 
so as not to break them, y 2 cup chopped walnuts, y 2 
cup cracker crumbs, y 2 CU P sugar. Soften filling with 
melted butter, fill apples and bake in oven. 

SAUCE One-quarter cup water, l / 2 cup butter, iy 2 
cups brown sugar, y 2 nutmeg grated. Let boil 2 min- 
utes, then beat whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth and 
slowly stir into syrup. Use while hot. 

Mrs. Burson. 

Angel Charlotte Russe. 

One tablespoon Knox's gelatine, 14 cup cold water, 
y cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar, 1 pint heavy cream, 
y 2 dozen or more rolled stale macaroons, 1 dozen or 
more marshmallows cut in small pieces, 2 tablespoons 
or more chopped candied cherries, vanilla, 14 pound 
blanched and chopped almonds. Soak gelatine in cold 
water, dissolve in boiling water and add sugar. When 
mixture is cold add cream beaten stiff, almonds, maca- 
roons, marshmallows and candied cherries. Flavor 
with vanilla. Turn into a mold first dipped in cold 
water and chill. 

A Friend 

Charlotte Russe. 

Whip 1 quart of rich cream to stiff froth and drain 
well on a nice sieve. To 1 scant pint of milk add 6 
eggs beaten very light, make very sweet, flavor high 
with vanilla. Cook over hot water till it is a thick 
custard. Soak 1 ounce Cox's gelatine in a very little 
water, and warm over hot water. When the custard 
is very cold beat in lightly the gelatine and whipped 
cream. Line bottom of mold with buttered paper, sides 



94 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

with sponge cake or lady fingers fastened together 
with white of egg. Fill with the cream, put on ice. 
To turn out, dip the mold for a moment in hot water. 
In draining the whipped cream, all that drips through 
can be rewhipped. Fine. 

Mrs. L. M. Anderson 

Tapioca Cream Custard. 

Soak 4 heaping tablespoons of tapioca in 2 teacups 
water over night. Place over the fire a quart of milk, 
let come to a boil, then stir in the tapioca, a good pinch 
of salt ; stir until it thickens a little, then add a cupful 
of sugar and the beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Stir it 
quickly, pour into a dish and stir gently into the mix- 
ture the whites beaten stiff, the flavoring, and set to 
eooi. 

Fruit Cream. 

Half box gelatine dissolved in milk for 5 minutes, 
2-3 cup sugar, % quart of milk. Heat to boiling point. 
When cool and just velvety (not set), stirr in 1 quart 
of whipped cream. Set on ice. Serve with fruit and 
sugar and cream. Delicious with bananas. 

Caramel Pudding. 

One and a half cups sugar, 1 quart of boiling water, 
3 tablespoons cornstarch, % pound blanched almonds. 
Put the sugar in a saucepan and brown to a rich 
coffee color, pour in the boiling water and thicken with 
the cornstarch. Put the almonds in molds, pour over 
them the caramel and set to cool. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Mrs. Anderson. 

Pineapple Cream. 

Two cups of milk, 3 tablespoons cornstarch, 3 table- 
spoons sugar, speck salt, whites 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 95 

grated pineapple. Cook as for cornstarch pudding. 
Remove from fire and fold in lightly the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff and the grated pineapple. Serve cold 
with cream. 

Escalloped Strawberries. 

One quart of strawberries and 1 pint of cream are. 
required. Whip the cream until dry; place a layer 
of fruit in a deep glass dish, add a sprinkling of sugar 
and cover with whipped cream ; continue this until all 
are used, heaping cream on top. Set in a cool place 
until thoroughly chilled. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 

Cranberry Frappe. 

Boil 1 quart cranberries and 2 cups water for 5 
minutes. Strain through cheese cloth, add 2 cups 
sugar, juice 1 lemon. When cold freeze to a soft mush, 
serve with or after the turkey course. 

Y. W. C. A. Cooking School. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

Three tablespoons white sugar, 4 tablespoons butter, 
1 quart flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder. Make this 
into a soft dough with sweet milk. Roll out and bake 
in jelly cake pans. 

Mrs. E. Rice 



96 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



Ices 



Apricot Ice. 

One can apricots put through fruit press, 1 bowl 
sugar, juice of 3 lemons. Add water to make % gal- 
lon. Add 3 unbeaten whites of eggs last thing. Freeze 
as you would ice cream. 

Bavarian Cream. 

One pint cream, 1 cup milk, l /2 cup sugar, 1 square 
chocolate, % box gelatine in y% cup milk. Whip cream 
stiff. Melt chocolate, add a tablespoon of sugar to it, 
put in pan with 1 tablespoon of boiling water; stir 
over fire till smooth. Have the remaining % cup milk 
hot, stir chocolate into it and add gelatine and rest 
of sugar. Beat the mixture till it begins to thicken, 
add whipped cream, mix and put in cold place. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Mrs. C. C. Wuddard 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

Beat 2 eggs very light and cream them with 2 cups 
of sugar. Scald a pint of milk and turn on by degrees, 
mixing well with the sugar and eggs; stir in this % 
a cup of grated chocolate; return to the fire and heat 
until it thickens, stirring briskly. Take from fire and 
cool. When thoroughly cold freeze. 

Mrs. John T. Stivers. 

Five Threes. 

Three oranges, 3 lemons, 3 bannas, 3 cups of sugar, 
3 pints of water. Put sugar and water together, boil 
for a few minutes. Pour- it over the juice and pulp 
of the lemons and oranges and bananas mashed fine. 
When cold freeze stiff. 

Mrs. J. H. Cord 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 97 

Lemon-Orange Sherbet. 

Juice of 8 oranges, 4 lemons, 2% cups of sugar, 2 
cupse water. When ready to put in freezer add 1 
pint rich cream and freeze. 

Mrs. Hammond. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

Four lemons, 16 tablespoons of sugar, 1 quart of 

rich sweet milk, whites of 4 eggs. Dissolve the sugar 
in the lemon juice thoroughly, add the well beaten 
whites of eggs and beat until a creamy mass is the 
result; then very slowly add the sweet milk, beating 
constantly until all the milk is added. Turn into the 
freezer and freeze the same as ice cream; pack in ice 
one hour or longer. This is delicious. 

Mrs. John A. Cottle 

Walnut Bisque. 

Two cups scalded milk, % teaspoon vanilla, few 
grains salt, yolks 3 eggs, 1-3 cup sugar. Make into 
boiled custard, cool, add 1 cup cream and beat stiff 
with bisque made of caramalizing 2-3 cup sugar and 
2-3 cup walnut meats, cooled and ground in meat 
grinder. Freeze. 

Y. W. C. A. Cooking School 

Mousse. 

Two quarts cream to whip, 1 can pineapple, 1 bottle 
Mareschino cherries, 1 box marshmallows, 1 pound 
English walnuts. Flavor and sweeten to taste. Whip 
cream stiff, add fruit cut in small discs and nuts. Do 
not use juice of pineapple. Pack in freezer as for 
freezing with ice and salt but do not turn freezer. 

Mrs. Wudard 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

Scald one pint of fresh cream in a double boiler, add 
half a pound of granulated sugar and stir constantly 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



until the sugar is dissolved; take from the fire, add 
another pint of milk and when cold add a tablespoon 
of vanilla. Turn the mixture into the freezer and 
freeze. 

Mrs. John Stivers 

Raspberry Ice. 

Boil together 1 quart of water and 1 pound sugar for 
5 minutes. Skim and cool. When cold add 1 juart of 
raspberries and juice of 2 lemons. Put mixture in 
freezer and turn slowly until frozen. 

Mrs. Claude E. Quivey. 

Ice Cream. 

One and a half pints milk, 2 cups granulated sugar, 
scant !/4 cup of flour, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons of gelatine 
(Cox's), 1 quart of good rich cream. Let the milk 
come to a boil; beat the eggs and stir in the flour, then 
add 1 cup of sugar. Add this to the boiling milk and 
cook 20 minutes. Stir constantly (this insures smooth, 
velvety cream). Remove from fire and pour in the 
gelatine dissolved in the usual way. Beat hard for a 
moment, then set aside to cool. When cool beat in the 
second cup of sugar and the cream and flavoring. 
Freeze until partially frozen, then if desired, add a 
large cupful of any mashed fruit. Cover and finish 
freezin. 

Miss Florence Clayton. 

Pineapple Ice. 

Two cans of pineapple. Separate fruit and juice. 
Make a syrup of 3 pounds sugar and 2 pints of water 
and while hot pour over the fruit and let cool. Then 
add 4 pints of cold water, juice of pineapple, and 1 
teaspoon of tartaric acid. When half frozen, beat in 
the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. One-half this quan- 
tity for a gallon freezer, will serve 12 people. 

Florence Clayton. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 99 



Sweet Piccalillj^ . 

One peck green tomatoes, 12 chili peppers, 6 medium 
onions. Chop tomatoes, pour over them 1 cup salt 
and let stand over night ; then drain off, add chopped 
onions and peppers, I 1 /** cups sugar, 1 cup white mus- 
tard seed, 1 teaspoon allspice, cloves, cinnamon and 
nutmeg. Cover with vinegar, not too strong, and boil 
till tender. 

Mrs. M. Gale. 

Ripe Tomato Relish. 

Eighteen tomatoes, 2 onions, 3 or 4 peppers, 2 1 /2 cups 
vinegar, iy 2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon of all kind spices. 
2 teaspoons salt. Cook 1 hour. 

Mrs. F. H. Jenness. 

Chili Sauce. 

Three stalks of celery chopped, 24 large ripe toma- 
toes, 6 green peppers without seeds, 4 large onions, 3 
tablespoons of salt, 8 tablespoons golden brown sugar, 
6 teacups of vinegar. Chop onions and peppers fine, 
peel the tomatoes and cut small, put all into a kettle 
and boil an hour. 

Mrs Hammond. 

Fig Pickles (Sweet). 

Secure white Pacific figs. Do not peel, simply wash. 
One quart vinegar (cider), 4 pounds granulated sugar, 
2 teaspoons cloves, 2 teaspoons cinnamon. Boil above 
together for 15 minutes, then add figs to this syrup and 
boil till you can pick with fork. Can hot with syrup 
in air tight jars. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. . 



too THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Spanish Pickles. 

One large head of cabbage, chopped fine; sprinkle 
with salt, put in straining bag over night. Three 
dozen small white onions, 4 green peppers soaked in 
salt water over night, 1% dozen small cucumbers sliced 
1/2 inch thick, 1 quart green beans, scalded. Spices: 
l /2 ounze tumeric, % ounce celery seed, 14 pound good 
mustard. Place a layer of vegetables then spices alter- 
nately, cover with vinegar in which has been lissolved 
% pound brown sugar. Boil until it begins to thicken. 

Mrs. Gllmer. 

Tomato Soy. 

One box (or % bushel) ripe tomatoes peeled, cut in 
dice ; 1 dozen large onions, 3 dozen red peppers (put 
onions and peppers through meat chopper), 1 gallon 
best vinegar, 3% pounds brown sugar, l 1 /^ teaspoons 
Tabasco .sauce, 15 teaspoons salt, 20 teaspoons ginger, 
20 teaspoons cloves, 20 teaspoons cinnamon (spices all 
ground, rounding spoonfuls). Boil 3% hours, stir al- 
most constantly after it begins to settle. Seal or put 
in self sealing bottles. 

Mrs. Gllmer. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes sliced, 2 large peppers, 1 large 
onion chopped fine, I 1 /*) cups cider vinegar, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 2 tablespoons salt, 1 level teaspoon cloves, 1 
level teaspoon allspice, 1 level teaspoon nutmeg, 1 level 
teaspoon ginger, pinch mustard. Mix cold and boil 
until thick. 

Mrs. Carrie Smyser. 

Mustard Pickles. 

Two quarts sliced cucumbers, 2 quarts sliced cauli- 
flower, 2 quarts sliced onions, 2 large green peppers. 
Soak over night in weak brine, set on stove, let come 
to boil, drain off brine. Add 3 cups vinegar, cook 20 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 101 

minutes, let stand until cold, then add dressing as fol- 
lows: Two pints of vinegar, let come to a boil. Add 
to this 10 tablespoons mustard, l /2 cup flour, 2 cups 
sugar, !/2 ounce tumeric, mix to smooth paste and stir 
into hot vinegar. Cook to consistency of thin starch. 

Mrs. Offenbach 

Mixed Pickles. 

One quart small onions, 1 quart small green tomatoes. 

1 head cabbage, 1 teaspoon celery seed, 2 cups sugar, 

2 quarts cider vinegar, 1 quart small cucumbers, 1 large 
cauliflower, 4 tablespoons mixed spices, 4 tablespoons 
ground mustard, !/2 up flour. Scald each vegetable 
in salt water. Wet mustard, flour and sugar together, 
stir into vinegar while boiling. Mix all together and 
pour over vegetables. 

Mrs. Countryman. 

Chow Chow. 

Two heads of cabbage, 40 cucumbers, 1 quart of little 
white onions, 15 onions, 20 very small cucumbers, 1 
quart of string beans. Cut cabbage, large onions and 
large cucumbers in pieces. Mix with beans, small 
onions and cucumbers. Do not cut the latter. Salt 
down over night. In the morning drain and put to 
soak in equal parts of vinegar and water for a day or 
two. Drain again and mix in 1/2 pound sliced horse- 
radish, i/2 teacup ground pepper. Boil 5 quarts of 
vinegar and 1 pound of brown sugar; pour over while 
hot. Repeat this for three mornings. The third morn- 
ing add % pound ground mustard in almost 1 pint 
of salad oil well mixed. Stir through the pickle. Also 
mix in */ 2 pound mustard seed, 1 ounce celery seed, 1 
ounce tumeric. This can be divided if desired. 

Mrs. Matthews. 

Chow Chow. 

One and a half qts. green tomatoes, 2 onions, 1% qts. 
ripe tomatoes, 3 red peppers. Chop fine and add */2 



102 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

cup salt. Let stand over night, drain and add 1 quart 
vinegar, 1 pint sugar, % teaspoon each of cloves and 
cinnamon, y 2 cup of mustard seed. Cook 1/2 hour. 

Alyce S. Newton. 

Peach Pickles. 

Seven pounds cling stone peaches peeled, 3 pounds 
granulated (cane) sugar, 1 pint strong vinegar, 1 
ounce each of cinnamon, cloves and mace. Boil vine- 
gar and sugar together three consecutive days and 
pour over fruit. The fourth day cook all together 
until peaches are tender. Enclose spices in thin tar- 
latan bags. 

Miss Clayton. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Half bushel tomatoes peeled, % ounce (or 1 rounded 
tablespoon) of whole cloves, 2 dozen small bird peppers, 
4 tablespoons whole mustard, a little pounded ginger 
root, 8 small garlic cloves, 2 ounces allspice, 8 bay 
leaves. 8 inches stick cinnamon, 8 medium sized onions, 
1 cup brown sugar. Boil % hours and strain through 
wire sieve. Return to the fire and boil until thick. 
Then add 1 quart vinegar, boil 15 minutes and add 4 
level tablespoons salt and 2 teaspoons white pepper. 
Bottle and seal while hot. 

Mrs. H. M. Clayton. 

Raw Tomato Catsup. 

One peck ripe tomatoes pared and mashed fine, 2 
roots horseradish grated, 1 teacup brown sugar, 2 
ounces celery seed, 4 ounces brown mustard seed, 1 
ounce grated cloves, 2 ounces ground cinnamon, 1 tea- 
cup onions minced fine, i/2 teacup salt, 4 ounces yellow 
mustard, % ounce each of black and red pepper, 1 
ounce of ground mace, 1 quart of vinegar. Mix well, 
bottle and cork tight. 

Mrs. Burson. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 103 

Chili Sauce. 

One quart ripe tomatoes, scant ^2 cup vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, y 2 teaspoon cloves, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 
onions chopped fine, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y% teaspoon 
pepper, l /o teaspoon mustard. Cook slowly 3 hours. 

Mrs. Gilliland 

Chili Sauce. 

One dozen large ripe tomatoes, 2 large onions, 1 
tablespoon ground cinnamon, 2 teacups vinegar, 3 chili 
peppers, 2 tablespoon salt, l /2 teacup sugar. Chop to- 
matoes and chili peppers, season with other ingredients 
and cook slowly for l 1 /^ hours. 

Mrs. C. H. Griffen 

Chopped Pickle. 

Two gallons small green tomatoes, 1 dozen large 
onions, or l /o gallon little pickling onions, 1 dozen 
green peppers, 2 boxes seedless raisins, 2 pounds brown 
sugar, 1 box mixed spices ? 2 bunches celery, 2 quarts 
cucumbers or dill pickles. 1 pint green natsurtium seed, 
vinegar enough to cover well. Slice the tomatoes thin 
and salt over night, then drain and scald a few at a time 
in 1 pint of vinegar and 1 pint of water, then put in 
a bag and hang up to drain all day or all night. Slice 
the onions (if the large ones are used) and salt a little 
while the tomatoes are draining. Cut up the peppers, 
leaving out the seed pad. Cut the celery into small 
pieces, and slice the cucumbers. Mix all together thor- 
oughly, put into a large pan, pour the vinegar over 
until covered, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, 
or half an hour. "Will keep a long time. This quantity 
makes between 2 and 3 gallons. 

Mrs. H. M. Clayton. 

Chutney. 

Six green tomatoes (8 if small) from which seeds 
are taken, 12 sour apples, 4 large sliced onions, 1 cup 



104 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

seeded raisins. Chop each fine, peeling apples and to- 
matoes. Into a quart of vinegar stir 2 cups sugar, 2 
teaspoons salt and 2 teaspoons dry mustard. Put on 
fire, cook 5 minutes after it begins to boil, then add 
other ingredients and boil over slow fire for an hour. 
Add more sugar if too sharp. Also some currants. 
This makes 4 pints. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, 4 ripe or 3 green chili 
peppers, 2 onions, 2 tablespoons salt, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon. 3 cups vinegar. Peel 
tomatoes and onions, chop separately very fine, add the 
peppers chopped, with the olher ingredients, and boil 
al 1 together 1% hours. Bottle and it will keep a 
long time. This chili sauce is excellent and more 
healthful than catsup. 

Mustard Pickles. 

Cut up small cucumbers, green tomatoes, onions, cel- 
ery (more than of others),, cauliflower, soak in brine 
over night, drain. Put in kettle vinegar enough to 
cover vegetables and sugar to taste; when hot put in 
vegetables and cook tender. Then add y% cup flour, 
3 tablespoons mustard and a pinch of red pepper for 
each 2 quarts of pickles. Cook a short time longer 
and put in crock. 

Mrs. Charles S. McKelvey. 

Tomato Jelly. 

Peel and cut up firm, ripe tomatoes and to each 
pound add the grated peel of a lemon. Boil until to- 
matoes are soft, then mash and strain through a cloth. 
To each pint of juice add the jui'^e of one lemon and a 
pound of heated loaf sugar. Let the sugar melt, put 
where it will boil gently until it jellies when dropped 
on a plate about thirty minutes. Seal like any other 
jelly, and serve with meat or fowl. A spiced jelly 
can be made by adding some bags of whole spic after 
straining the juice, and letting them boil together. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 105 



Orange Marmalade. 

Four large oranges, 2 lemons. Slice or shred all in 
fine pieces, add as much water as fruit and juice. Cook 
l /2 hour or until tender. Add as much sugar as fruit 
and water. Cook fast about % hour. Put in jelly 
glasses. 

Mrs. S. J. Chapman. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Six navel oranges sliced crosswise (do not peel), the 
juice of 2 lemons. To each pound of fruit add 1 quart 
of water and 1 extra quart to the whole. Boil % hour, 
skim well, let cool. To each cup of fruit add 1 cup of 
cane sugar, boil until it jellies. 

Mrs. E. W. Parker 

Orange Marmalade. 

Twelve oranges, 4 lemons of medium size, sliced very 
thin. Cover in a large granite kettle with 7 pints of 
water, let stand over night. The second day cook with- 
out stirring until the rinds are tender, usually about Vo 
or % of an hour. Stand away again over night. The 
third day weigh, deduct the weight of kettle, add IVt 
pounds of best granulated sugar to each pound of 
pulp, cook until the syrup will jelly when cooled, and 
place in jars and glasses while hot. 

cTWrs. Young 

Grape and Nut Marmalade. 

Six pounds of muscat grapes seeded, 3 pounds of 
sugar, y 2 pound nuts, 1 tablespoon vinegar. Weigh, 
wash and seed the grapes. Then weigh again. Heat 
slowly to boiling and let boil 10 to 15 minutes. Add 



io6 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

sugar gradually and boil 45 minutes from the first. 
Ten minutes before finished add nuts and vinegar. 

Mrs. C. H. Griffon 

Lemon Butter. 

One and a half cups sugar, 2 eggs, 2 lemons, 2 table- 
spoons butter. Cook in a double boiler and stir until 
clear and thick like honey. 

Mrs. L G. Hoyt 

Lemon Butter. 

Grated rind and juice of 3 lemons, 3 eggs well beaten, 
2% cups sugar, % cup water, butter size of walnut. 
Let come to a boil stirring all the time. 

Mrs. Burson 

Preserved Muscat Grapes. 

Seven pounds Muscat grapes seeded, 3 cups sugar, 
2 pounds chopped walnuts. Boil grapes until skins are 
tender, then put in chopped nuts and boil 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Gllmer. 

Preserved or Spiced Concord Grapes. 

Separate pulps from skins, boil skins (in just enough 
water to cover) till tender. Cook pulps until soft 
enough to pass through sieve. Put the skins and 
strained pulp together allowing 1/2 pound sugar to each 
pound of fruit. If you want it spiced add 1 tablespoon 
of doves and a tablespoon of cinnamon to each pound 
of fruit, and enough vinegar to dissolve sugar. 

Mrs. Gllmer. 
i 

Dried Figs. 

It is best to use figs that are not dead ripe. Boil 
figs until the green disappears, drain, make a thick 
syrup of 2-3 sugar to 1-3 water and boil figs until 
transparent. Let stand over night. Bring to boil next 
morning, let stand another 24 hours and then drain. 
Put on board and dry in sun, turning' daily. When 
dried thoroughly, dip in sugar and put away. 

A. s. N. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 107 



"If the kettle boiling be, Seven minutes makes the tea." 

General Rules. 

1. Keep tea and coffee in closely covered jars or cans. 

2. Do not use tea pots or coffee pots made of tin. 

3. Scald tea and coffee pots before using. 

4. Use freshly boiled water in making the coffee. 

5. As a rule 1 teaspoon tea to 1 cup water and 2 tea- 

spoons coffee to 1 cup water. 

Tea. 

One teaspoon tea, 1 cup boiling water. Put the tea 
in a scalded tea pot and pour the boiling water over it. 
Steep 5 minutes in a warm place. Strain and serve 
either hot or iced. 

Boiled Coffee. 

One-third cup cold water, 1-3 egg or 1 egg shell, 1-3 
cup ground coffee, 2 cups boiling water. Beat egg 
slightly or crush the shell and add to coffee and x /2 
the cold water. Place in scalded coffee pot, add the 
boiling water and boil 3 minutes. Stir down the 
grounds, pour out a little coffee to clear the spout, add 
the remaining cold water and set the coffee pot on the 
back of the stove for ten minutes. 

Filtered Coffee. 

One cup powdered coffee. 7 cups boiling water. Use 
a coffee pot with an inside strainer. Place the pow- 
dered coffee in the strainer and add the water grad- 
ually. Keep the coffee pot covered while the water is 
filtering. Serve at once without cooking. 



io8 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

German Cocoa. 

Two tablespoons of cocoa, 1 square of Baker's choco- 
late, sugar to taste, 1 cup of cold water. Let boil 10 
minutes over fire slowly, then add 1 quart of milk and 
put in double boiler and steam l l / 2 hours. When it is 
hot in boiler put 1 level teaspoon of cornstarch dis- 
solved in milk. When ready to serve add vanilla to 
taste and serve with whipped cream. Fine. 

Sadie Webber 

Lemon Syrup. 

Squeeze the juice from 1 dozen lemons and strain 
out the seeds. Remove the pulp from the skins, boil 
it five minutes in 2 cupfuls of water. Strain, add the 
juice and measure. Allow l 1 ^ cupfuls of sugar for 
every cupful of the liquid. Put over the fire, stir until 
dissolved, boil 5 minutes, skim and seal hot. Fine 
for drink in traveling added to water. 

Mrs. L. G. Hoyt 

Orange Syrup. 

Grated yellow rind of 1 dozen oranges, 4 ounces of 
citric acid, 7 pounds of granulated sugar, 3 quarts 
boiling water. Grate oranges, put in a crock with 
sugar, acid and boiling water and stir occasionally 
till quite cold and dissolved. Let stand about 24 hours 
and bottle. Do not add juice of oranges. Use 1 or 2 
tablespoons to a glass of water. 

Miss Hanvey. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 109 



"How could a hostess manage or society survive, 

Without the favored sandwich at luncheon, teas at five? 

What daring combinations achieves the housewife bold, 

In efforts to improve upon the many sorts grown old; 

There's Dutch and Tutti Frutti, Sardine and Bostonese, 

There's Harlequin, and Butterfly and Nut and Devilled Cheese. 

There's Ham and Egg, and Salad-Mushroon and \\atercress, 

And endless other kinds, all devilled more or less. 

'Tis not a passing fancy, nor fashion of a day, 

The sandwich is a household friend and is surely here to stay." 

Sardine and Ham Sandwiches. 

Mince sardines fine and mix with % the quantiy of 
cold boiled minced ham and spread over thinly cut 
and slightly buttered bread. 

Mrs. John T. Stivers 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Ten cents worth boiled ham, 5c worth roasted pea- 
nuts. Chop finely and moisten with salad dressing. 
Spread between buttered bread. 

Mrs. R. H. Craig. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Two hard boiled eggs, 14 pound grated cheese, x /2 
teaspoon each salt and pepper and mustard, 1 table 
spoon melted butter or olive oil, and 1 tablespoon vine- 
gar. Mash the yolks of the eggs and mix smooth with 
the melted butter, add salt, pepper, mustard and cheese, 
mixing well, add vinegar and finely chopped whites 
of eggs. Spread between thin slices of white bread. 

cTVIiss Ida B. Davison 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

One teaspoon of butter and 2 of flour, warm on the 
stove until smooth, add % cup sweet milk and 1/2 cup 
of cheese cut in small bits, a little salt and cayenne or 
chili powder. Stir till all is dissolved and cook a little, 



no THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

then cool. Cut bread as for sandwiches and spread 
with cheese mixture quite thickly. Butter the top and 
put in oven to toast. To be eaten while hot. 

Mrs. M. Gale 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

One hard boiled egg, l /o pound grated cheese, ^ 
teaspoon each salt, pepper, mustard, 1 tablespoon each 
of melted butter and vinegar. Crumble yolk of egg 
in bowl, add butter, mix smoothly, add salt, pepper, 
mustard and cheese, mix well and add vinegar. Spread 
on buttered bread. 

Nut Sandwiches. 

Chop English walnuts with an equal amount of either 
celery or -hard boiled eggs. Mix with any preferred 
salad dressing and spread on buttered bread. 

Mrs. R. H. Craie 

Fruit Cheese for Sandwiches. 

One pound raisins, 1 pound figs, 1 pound dates, 1 
pound almonds, 1 pound English walnuts, 1 pound Bra- 
zilian nuts, 1 pound pecans, 1 pound filberts. Grind 
together and mix, put in roll and slice as wanted. Roll 
in waxed paper; will last for a long time. Can be 
served as fruit cake or for sandwiches. 

cTWrs. Carrie Smyser 

Date Sandwiches. 

One cup each finely chopped dates and either pecans 
or English walnuts. Mix well and if not moist enough 
to spread easily, thin a very little with hot water., 
Spread between very thin slices of buttered bread. 

Mrs. J. W. Alabaster 

Eoast Beef Sandwiches. 

Chop rare roast beef very fine, taking care to use 
only the lean portions of the meat. Sprinkle with salt, 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK in 

pepper and a saltspoonful of horseradish. Mix and 
make into sandwiches with thinly sliced graham bread. 

Peanut Sandwiches. 

Shell and skin freshly roasted peanuts and roll them 
to fine crumbs on a pastry board. Add salt to taste 
and mix the powdered nuts with enough fresh cream 
cheese to make a paste that can be easily spread on 
unbuttered bread. Keep in a cold, damp place until 
wanted. 

Ham and Olive Sandwiches. 

Chop lean ham fine and beat into each cupful of the 
minced meat a tablespoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful 
of vinegar, a saltspoonful of French mustard, six olives 
chopped fine and a teaspoonful of minced parsley. 
Work all to a paste and spread on thin slices of white 
bread. 

Bean Sandwiches. 

Press baked beans through a sieve and add 14 their 
amount of ham or other meat which has been cooked 
with them and subsequently put through a meat 
grinder. Moisten with tomato catsup, adding a few 
drops of Worcestershire sauce, spread between wafer- 
thin rounds of Boston brown bread, and cut into small 
triangles. 

Chicken Sandwiches. 

Put equal proportions of the white meat of cold 
chicken and blanched almonds through a meat grinder. 
Add % the quantity of finely chopped celery and form 
into a paste with highly seasoned salad dressing. 
Spread between thin slices of cream bread well but- 
tered, and trimming off all crusts, cut in fancy shapes. 

Tongue Sandwiches. 

Press hard boiled eggs through a sieve, adding a like 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



quantity of cold tongue, minced to a paste. Season 
highly with French mustard and bits of parsley. Spread 
between thin, buttered slices of whole wheat bread, 
and trimming off all crusts, cut into shapes. 

Fruit Sandwiches. 

Chop equal proportions of dates, figs, candied pine- 
apple and English walnuts, very fine. Sprinkle slightly 
with bar sugar, moisten with orange juice, and spread 
between lightly buttered rounds of cream bread, which 
have been cut from thin slices with a small biscut 
cutter. 

Gingerbread Sandwiches. 

Cut day-old gingerbread into slices */4 of an inch 
thick, butter and spread with the following filling: 
Put equal proportions of seeded raisins and English 
walnuts through a meat grinder. To each cupful of 
this mixture add two tablespoonfuls of honey and one 
of orange juice. 

Sweetbread Sandwiches. 

Chop very fine, two parts of cold boiled sweetbreads 
to one of stoned olives. Add half its bulk in shredded 
lettuce, season with salt, pepper, French mustard and 
lemon juice, and spread between wafer-thin, buttered 
slices of gluten bread, cutting into dainty shapes. 

Canapes. 

These are small slices of bread covered with simple 
or compound mixtures of fish, meat, eggs, cheese, etc., 
seasoned highly and served as a first course, to tempt 
the appetite. Cut either white, graham, rye, or brown 
bread in 14 inch slices, and then in oblongs, triangles, 
rings, crescents, or diamond shape; butter and brown 
in the oven. Cover with any of the following combina- 
tions and arrange on individual plates. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 113 

No. 1. Equal portions of mashed sardines and hard 
boiled eggs, season with lemon juice; pile it in center 
of bread with minced whites around it and lay slices 
of pickles across diagonally. 

No. 2. Creamed butter, minced watercress, lemon 
juice, and minced lobster or crab or a layer of caviar, 
or anchovy paste. 

No. 3. Spread with French mustard, grated cheese, 
and a border of chopped green sweet peppers. 

No. 4. Minced ham or tongue made into paste with 
creamed butter and mustard, and garnished with 
minced olives or pickles, or a slice of fresh cucumber. 

Mrs. W. J. Jeter. 



114 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Weaver Dry Goods Co. 

H. R. WEAVER, Prop. 

For Five Years 
The Vermont Ave. Dry Goods Store 

Phone West 2001 

Special attention given to Ladies wants, infants 
and children's. Big Fancy Work Department. 

New Address 24O9 Vermont Ave. 



(Eafrirria 

344 SO. HILL ST. 



Puritan daf>i?na 

613 SO. SPRING ST. 

FURNITURE CARPETS-DRAPERIES 

li 
CASfiT-BROADWAVAT 7IS- CRED/T\ 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 115 



Candy 

"Sweets to the sweet." 

Panoche. 

Two and a half cups brown sugar, % cup of white 
sugar, 1 cup milk or cream, lump butter size of walnut. 
Boil until it forms a soft ball in water. Then take off 
fire and add cup chopped walnuts and a teaspoonful 
vanilla and beat until it creams. Pour out on a but- 
tered platter. 

Mrs. E. W. Kelly 

Panoche. 

Two cups light brown sugar, or half white and half 
brown, 1 cup milk, ^ saltspoon of cream of tartar, 1 
tablespoon of butter, 1 cup sliced nuts, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla. Mix sugar, milk, etc. After cooking a little 
while add the butter. Let boil for 15 minutes or until 
it forms a soft ball. Remove from stove, add nuts and 
flavoring. Beat to a cream, pour into a greased dish 
and cut in squares. 

Mrs. W. E. White. 

Divinity Candy. 

Three cups sugar, ^ cup corn syrup, % cup water, 
butter size of walnut, % teaspoon salt. Boil till a 
little will harden in cold water, but do not stir while 
boiling. Pour very slowly over the stiffly beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. Beat constantly and long, adding 1 teaspoon 
vanilla during the process, and when partly cold and 
beginning to turn white, add 1 pint broken walnut 
meats. Spread on buttered plates and cut. Two per- 
sons are almost necessary to make this successfully, 
as rapid beating is required. 

Mrs. Sylvia Grossman 



Ii6 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Divinity Candy. 

Two cups granulated sugar, % cup corn syrup, a /2 
cup sweet milk, 1 cup chopped nuts. Boil until a soft 
ball is formed when tested in cold water; then beat 
until creamy, add the nuts and pour into buttered pans. 

Divinity Candy. 

Three cups granulated sugar, % cup Karo Corn 
Syrup and 2-3 cup water. Boil until a soft ball is 
formed when tested in cold water. Beat the whites of 
2 eggs to a stiff froth, with */ teaspoon of salt. Pour 
the syrup into the whites gradually, beating all the 
time, then add 1 cup of chopped walnuts. Pour candy 
into buttered pans. 

Maple Fudge. 

One and a half cups light brown sugar, 1 cup maple 
syrup, % cup sweet milk, 1 level teaspoon butter. Boil 
slowly until it forms soft ball when tested, then let it 
stand until cool. Then beat with fork until creamy. 
Pour into buttered pans. 

Mrs. E. G Shryack 

Fudge. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 squares Baker's choc- 
olate, butter size of an egg. Boil until it will form soft 
ball when in cold water. Remove from fire, add vanilla 
and stir until it grains. 

Mrs Hammond. 

Nugget. 

Two cups white sugar, % cup warm water, % cup 
corn syrup, small piece of butter. Boil until it gets 
hard in water. Beat into the stiffly beaten whites of 
2 eggs. Add nuts. Pour into greased pan. Success 
depends on the thorough beating. 

Mrs. W. E. White. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 117 

Marshmallows. 

Two tablespoons gelatine, cover with 8 tablespoons 
water, 2 cups sugar, 8 tablespoons water, pinch of salt, 
% teaspoon vanilla. Boil sugar and water until it 
forms soft ball in cold water. Pour over soaked gela- 
tine, add salt and flavoring and beat until stiff from 
20 to 30 minutes. Pour in floured pan, let stand until 
it is firm, then cut in squares and roll well in sifted 
flour. 

Mrs. F. S. Williams. 

Butter Taffy. 

One cup of sugar, ^ cup of cold water, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of molasses, 1% tablespoonfuls of vinegar, butter 
size of an egg. Boil 20 minutes. 

Vinegar Candy. 

Two cups of white sugar, % cup water, y 2 cup of 
vinegar. Boil until it becomes hard in cold water. 
Cut in squares or pull until white. 

French Creams. 

Break into a bowl the white of 1 or more eggs as the 
quantity you wish to make will require. Add to it an 
equal quantity of cold water, then stir in XXX pow- 
dered, or confectioner's sugar until you have it stiff 
enough to mold into shape with the fingers. Flavor to 
taste. Set aside to dry. This is the foundation for all 
French cream candies. 

Mrs. Harvey. 

Candy Peppermint Drops. 

Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of water, 2 tablespoons 
gluecose. Boil, then whip till creamy, then melt again 
in double boiler. Drop from a teaspoon on a greased 
paper. 

Mrs. A. H. Stover. 



ii8 THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 

Fudge. 

Two cups of sugar, % to 1 cup milk, 1 to l 1 /^ squares 
unsweetened chocolate or 4 tablespons of cocoa, 2 
tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Heat milk and 
sugar and when sugar is dissolved add the chocolate. 
1 Boil until it reaches the soft ball stage, stirring un- 
til chocolate is melted. 2 Remove from fire, add the 
butter and vanilla and beat till creamy and thickened. 
Pour quickly into a greased tin. AVhen firm cut in 
squares. 

Mary Anderson 

Panoche. 

Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 cup chopped 
nuts, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 1 Boil 
sugar and milk slowly to the soft ball stage, then re- 
move from fire and add the rest of the ingredients. 
2. Beat until creamy and thickened, pour quickly into 
a greased pan, and when firm cut into squares. 

Josephine Anderson 

Nut Brittle. 

One cup sugar, % to 1 cup nuts shelled and broken 
in pieces. 1 Put sugar in sauce pan to heat and when 
it begins to melt on the bottom of the saucepan stir it 
until it becomes a thin, light brown syrup with no 
lumps. (Keep the sugar stirred down from the sides 
of the pan.) 2. Add the nuts immediately and pour 
quickly on a buttered plate or platter and mark in 
squares as soon as the knife does not stick to the candy. 
(A tin plate need not be buttered.) When cold, break 
in pieces. 

Faye Harvey 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 119 



Baking Powder. 

One pound pure cream of tartar, y 2 pound soda and 
mix with an even pint of flour. Sift four or five times. 
Keep in covered cans in a dry place. Use three tea- 
spoonfuls to a quart of flour. Mrs. Charles S. McKelvey. 

How to Wash Blankets. 

To each pair of blankets l /o bar soap. (Do this the 
day before washing blankets.) Two bucketfuls of 
warm water, two large tablespoonfuls of pulverized 
borax and two of liquid ammonia. Place the blankets 
in a tub to soak for one hour. Do not rub or wring. 
Lift into another tub in which you have two buckets 
of warm water, two large tablespoonfuls of borax and 
two of ammonia and let soak one-half hour. Do not 
rub nor wring. Hang on line to dry. Select a clear, 
warm day. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 

Cream for the Hands. 

Three ounces glycerine, 3 ounces alcohol, 1 drachm 
frangacanth, 3 ounces rosewater, 14 ounces soft water. 
Cream Marquis. 

Refined white wax y ounce, Spermaceti 2 ounces, 
oil of sweet almonds 2^/2 ounces, rosewater 2 ounces. 
Heat the first 3 ingredients until wax is melted. Do 
not let them boil. Remove from fire and add rosewater, 
stirring briskly until foamy and white. Perfume if 
you wish. 

Mrs. C. A. Gaud 

Vinegar. 

Five gallons rain water. 5 pounds very dark brown 
sugar, 1 cake compressed yeast. Mix these well. Toast 
5 or 6 slices of bread (one inch thick) a very dark 
brown, and place on top of earthen jar that contains 
these ingredients, tie cheese cloth tightly over the jar. 
Let stand six weeks in the sun. Then strain. 

Mrs. Gilmer. 



THE MAGNOLIA COOK BOOK 



Table of Contents 



Page 

Bread 7 

Hot Bread 12 

Soups 1 9 

Salads and Dressings 23 

Meats and Fish 31 

Vegetables ; 43 

Cheese 49 

Eggs 53 

Cakes 55 

Cookies and Doughnuts 73 

Pies 79 

Puddings and Sauces 83 

Desserts 90 

Ices 96 

Pickles and Catsup 99 

Marmalades 105 

Beverages 1 07 

Sandwiches 109 

Candy 115 

Miscellaneous ... .... 119 



