n f\ 




presented to 

Xibran? 

of tbc 

\Hniveraft of Toronto 

bB 

School of Social 




\. -''.-A/ 



A MANUAL 



OP 



BY 

SENECA EGBERT, A.M., M.D., 
i/i 

PROFESSOR OF HYGIENE AND DEAN OF THE MEDICO-CHIRURGICAL COLLEGE 

OF PHILADELPHIA; MEMBER OF THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL 

SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA ; MEMBER OF THE 

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, 

ETC., ETC. 



FIFTH EDITION, ENLARGED AND THOROUGHLY REVISED. 



ILLUSTRATED WITH 97 ENGRAVINGS. 






LEA & FEBIGER, 
PHILADELPHIA AND NEW YORK. 




Entered according to Act of Congress, In the year 1910, by 

LEA & FEBIGER, 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress. All rights reserved. 



WESTCOTT * THOMSON. 



TO THE 



MEMORY OF MY FATHER, 



TO WHOM I OWE SO MUCH ; TO WHOM I COULD REPAY SO LITTLE, 



THIS VOLUME 



IS MOST AFFECTIONATELY 



DEDICATED. 



PREFACE TO THE FIFTH EDITION. 



ANOTHEE careful revision of this work, rendered possi- 
ble by the demand for a new edition, has involved certain 
changes in statement, some rewriting, and the addition of 
a few pages of entirely new matter, the purpose being to 
bring the contents strictly up to date and to make the 
book, even more than heretofore, a trustworthy manual 
of the essentials of the science. 

To thoughtful observers it is evident that the country 
is awakening to the enormous importance of sanitation 
and public health measures as factors in the common 
welfare and betterment of the people ; and it therefore 
behooves those who attempt to teach this subject to take 
special care that what they say shall be trustworthy and 
authoritative. As stated in a former Preface, " the sci- 
ence of hygiene has become so extensive that many vol- 
umes might be devoted to the discussion of its principles 
and the details of their application." It has been the 
author's endeavor to cover the essentials without exceed- 
ing the limits of a convenient size. 

As will be noted, the author has made frequent use of 
the recent and remarkable " Report on Human Vitality ; 



6 PREFACE TO THE FIFTH EDITION. 

Its Waste and Conservation," by Professor Irving Fisher ; 
and must acknowledge indebtedness to it not only for the 
abstraction of a comparatively small portion of its abun- 
dant store of authoritative information, but also and espe- 
cially for the inspiration and enthusiasm which its reading 
must create in any one. He is also under obligations to 
Dr. Cressy L. Wilbur, Chief Statistician for Vital Statis- 
tics of the U. S. Census Bureau, for the use of the latest 
available data. The comparative study of such infor- 
mation is of the utmost importance to students of this 
great science of public health and preventive medicine. 

The kindly reception accorded to the former editions 
warrants the hope that this one may have an equally 
happy welcome. 

S. E. 

PHILADELPHIA, 1910. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

PAGE 

INTRODUCTION 17 

CHAPTER II. 
BACTERIOLOGY 36 

CHAPTER III. 

THE ATMOSPHERE AIR 72 

CHAPTER IV. 
VENTILATION AND HEATING , 105 

CHAPTER V. 
WATER 151 

CHAPTER VI. 
FOOD 224 

CHAPTER VII. 

STIMULANTS AND BEVERAGES 274 

CHAPTER VIII. 
PERSONAL HYGIENE 283 

CHAPTER IX. 
SCHOOL HYGIENE 314 

CHAPTER X. 
DISINFECTION 335 

7 



$ CONTEND. 

CHAPTER XL 

PAGE 
QUAKANTINE 368 

CHAPTER XII. 
THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE 388 

CHAPTER XIII. 
MILITARY HYGIENE 431 

CHAPTER XIV. 

VITAL STATISTICS 452 

CHAPTER XV. 
THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD 468 



A MANUAL OF HYGIENE AND SANITATION, 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTION. 

HYGIENE may be defined as the art and science that 
considers the preservation, promotion, and improvement 
of health and the prevention of disease. It treats of 
the laws of health in the broadest sense, and under the 
general term may be included a number of subdivisions. 
Thus, while Personal and Domestic Hygiene are respec- 
tively more closely related to the affairs of the individual 
and the household, Sanitary Science also finds larger fields 
and broader application in the domain of State Medicine 
and the Hygiene of Municipalities. 

A little thought will show that under the general head 
we may consider: 1. The preservation and promotion of 
health. 2. Practical disinfection and the means of avoid- 
ing preventable diseases. 3. Adaptation of diet and other 
factors to the prevention and cure of perversions of nutri- 
tion. Under one or another of these themes will fall the 
discussion of the air we breathe, the water we drink, the 
food we eat, the soils and surroundings of our dwellings 
and communities ; and at the same time the study of the 
means of recognizing, avoiding, correcting, or removing 
all impurities affecting any of these. In addition, there 
2 17 



18 INTRODUCTION. 

must be the study of climate and meteorology; of clothing 
and shelter ; of the care of the sick, not only for their own 
sake, but that they may not endanger the well ; the 
dangers of the abuse of stimulants, narcotics, etc. ; the 
desirability of chaste and temperate living, exercise, 
rest, etc. 

Parkes says that, " taking the word ' hygiene ' in its 
largest sense, it signifies rules for the perfect culture of 
mind and body. It is impossible to dissociate the two. 
The body is affected by every mental or moral action ; 
the mind is profoundly influenced by bodily conditions. 
[So is the moral conduct of individuals or communities.] 
For a perfect system of hygiene we must train the body, 
the intellect, and the moral faculties in a perfect and bal- 
anced order." Again, he says : " Looking only to the 
part of hygiene which concerns the physician, a perfect 
system of rules of health would be best arranged in an 
orderly series of this kind. The rules would commence 
with the regulation of the mother's health while bearing 
her child, so that the growth of the new being would be 
as perfect as possible. Then, after birth, the rules (dif- 
ferent for each sex at certain times) would embrace three 
epochs : of growth (including infancy and youth) ; of 
maturity, when for many years the body remains appar- 
ently stationary ; of decay, when, without actual disease, 
though doubtless in consequence of some chemical changes, 
molecular feebleness commences in some part or other, 
forerunning general decay and death. In these several 
epochs of his life the human being would have to be con- 
sidered : First, in relation to the natural conditions which 
surround him, and which are essential for life, such as the 
air he breathes, the water he drinks, etc. ; in fact, in rela- 
tion to nature at large. Second, in his social and corporate 



SCOPE OF THE SCIENCE. 19 

relations, as a member of a community with certain cus- 
toms, trades, etc. ; subjected to social and political influ- 
ences, sexual relations, etc. Third, in his capacity as an 
independent being, having within himself sources of 
action, in thoughts, feelings, desires, personal habits, all 
of which affect health, and which require self-regulation 
and control. Even now, incomplete as hygiene is, such 
a work would, if followed, almost change the face of the 
world." 

The student will readily see that the scope of the 
science is so vast that in a limited work like the present 
one it would be impossible to go over the entire ground 
completely and thoroughly. The most that may be 
attempted will be to discuss its fundamental laws as we 
now understand them, especially those that are most 
closely connected with the conscientious physician's duties 
and practice, and to show the reasons for and the advan- 
tages resulting from the pursuit of hygienic measures and 
sanitary methods based on those laws and our experi- 
ence. Hygiene is, however, a science in the study of 
which common-sense must be freely used ; and if the 
student will only bring this to his aid and add to it 
sincere attention, he will speedily find that there is little 
that is difficult, beyond his grasp, or less than really fas- 
cinating. 

It has always been, as it always will be, an art to pre- 
serve health and to ward off disease. Hippocrates was 
among the first to define principles of public health or 
sanitation. He summed up the knowledge of his day 
concerning hygiene under six headings, viz. : Air, Ali- 
ment, Exercise and Rest, Sleep and Wakefulness, Reple- 
tion and Evacuation, and the Passions and Affections of 
the Mind ; and he even pointed out that there must be 



20 INTRODUCTION. 

an exact balance between food and exercise, and that 
" disease would result from excess in either direction." ' 

The excellence of the Mosaic code is acknowledged by 
all sanitary authorities, and the effects of its observance 
are seen to this day in the comparative longevity of the 
Hebrew race. The Greeks cultivated to the extreme both 
the physical and mental faculties, and had for their motto, 
A sound mind in a sound body. The Romans, in their 
aqueducts for conveying water to the city and in the 
Cloaca Maxima, have left examples of sanitary engineer- 
ing which are, in certain respects, not yet surpassed. 
All of which serves to show that the ancients appre- 
ciated the importance of maintaining and improving 
health, and the influence of material conditions and 
environment upon sanitation. 

The development of hygiene as a science, however, has 
been within comparatively recent years. Perhaps the 
first great impulse among English-speaking peoples, espe- 
cially in matters pertaining to sanitation or " State Medi- 
cine," can be traced to the labors of Dr. William Farr, 
and to the establishment, through his efforts, of the 
British Registrar-General's Office in 1838. 2 Since then 
the task of determining the principles and laws of health 
has been carried on with unflagging zeal by workers both 
here and abroad, and within the last score of years or 

1 Treatise on Airs, Waters, and Places. (About 400 B. C.) 
* Note should be made, however, of the writings of Johannes Petrns 
Frank, in the first quarter of the nineteenth century and even earlier, 
and of Parent DuChatelet, between 1820 and 1836. Of the work of the 
former, it has been said that "It was the first orderly presentation of 
that which had hitherto been known upon these subjects, and was the 
first systematic effort to rescue from chaos such useful information as 
might be of service in the organization of a department of sanitary 
supervisors, or, as the author preferred to call them, medical police." 
A. C. Abbott, University Medical Magazine, July, 1900. 



VALUE OF SANITATION. 21 

less the knowledge gained in the new study of the bac- 
teria, especially that regarding the causation and nature 
of infectious diseases, has furnished us with a wealth of 
facts with and by which we may make the foundations of 
our science more secure and lasting. 

It would be wrong, nevertheless, to give the impression 
that hygiene is as yet an exact science. While it is 
rapidly attracting popular notice and attention, and has 
attained within comparatively recent years a dignity that 
it did not hitherto have in this new world, it is on a 
somewhat firmer basis in the older. The brightest minds 
of the day are busy with many of its problems, and 
facts and laws are being made clear that more firmly fix 
or may altogether change some of our beliefs and our 
practice. Especially is such new knowledge to be sought 
for in the study of the prevention of disease, the domain 
of bacteriology, the parasitic diseases, and the chemistry 
of the animal alkaloids and kindred compounds. 

Perhaps a few statistics will help one to realize that the 
study is not in vain, and that the promise of the future is 
even more brilliant than the results and achievements of 
the past. Three centuries ago the death-rate of London 
was more than 80 per 1000; now it is about 15 per 
1000. It is computed that in the eighteenth century 
the one preceding the introduction of vaccination fifty 
millions of people died in Europe of smallpox alone ; 
now it is practically almost an extinct disease where vac- 
cination is compulsory, as in Germany. In 1872 Sir 
John Simon estimated " that the deaths which occur in 
England are fully a third more numerous than they 
would be if our existing knowledge of the chief causes 
of disease were reasonably well applied throughout the 
country, and that of deaths which in this sense may be 



22 INTRODUCTION. 

called preventable the average yearly number in Eng- 
land and Wales is about 120,000." In confirmation 
of the accuracy of this statement, official reports show 
that the annual death-rate of England and Wales, which 
averaged 22.6 per 1000 for the decade from 1862 to 1871 
inclusive, fell to 18.9 for 1881, this giving a saving of 
92,000 lives annually; while for 1889, even with the cor- 
rection for the lowered birth-rate, it was only 1 7.9, indi- 
cating a yearly saving of at least 125,000 lives, and 
completely substantiating the above estimate of Simon. 1 
Moreover, the death-rate from the seven principal zymotic 
(infectious) diseases had dropped from an average of 4.11 
for the period from 1861 to 1870 to 2.40 for 1881-1885, 
and that from typhoid fever from 39 per 100,000 in 
1869 to 8.9 in 1905. This for England and Wales. 
In Munich from 1866 to 1881 the average yearly hospital 
admissions of typhoid fever cases were 594, and the aver- 
age deaths from this disease were 208, giving rates, re- 
spectively, of 332 and 115 per 100,000 of population. 
From 1881 to 1888, following the introduction of im- 
proved systems of sewerage and a better water-supply, the 
average hospital admissions (typhoid) were 104 and the 
average deaths were 40, or respective rates of 42 and 16 
per 100,000, and in 1908 the death-rate fell to the ex- 
tremely low figure of 3 per 100,000 of population. 

In this country a like improvement is to be noted, 
though it is only within the last few decades that much 
attention has been given to sanitary affairs. The death- 
rate of most of our cities is being progressively lowered, 
though the populations are constantly increased by large 
numbers of ignorant and uncleanly immigrants. Im- 

1 Time continues to lower the general death-rate for these countries, 
the average for the nine years, 1901-1908, inclusive, bei*\g less than 1.~>.7, 
ami that for 1905 alone, 14.7 per 1000 of population. 




RECENT VITAL STATISTICS. 23 

proved sanitary laws are being enacted and enforced, 
streets better paved and cared for, houses more wisely 
constructed and ventilated, more attention given to iso- 
lating the sick and protecting the well, and the people 
in general are awakening to the importance of improving 
as well as maintaining the public health. New York 
City has reduced her death-rate per thousand within the 
last two decades (1890 to 1908) from 25.4 to 16.82; 
Chicago, from 19.1 to 14.03; Philadelphia, from 20.76 
to 17.39 ; Boston, from 23.4 to 19.08, etc. 1 

Notwithstanding the increase in population, there were 
actually 5952 fewer deaths in New York City (Manhattan 
Borough) in 1908 than in 1891 ; in Cincinnati 185 less; 
and in Albany 545 less in the later than in the earlier 
year, with similar encouraging reports from many other 
cities, whose authorities attribute the good results as being 
due to advance in medical and surgical knowledge along the 
lines of preventive medicine, improved sanitary surround- 
ings, improved water-supplies, cleaner streets, inspection 
of milk- and food-supplies, isolation and modern treatment 
of infectious diseases, additional public parks, etc. 2 

Other evidences of the benefits resulting from the appli- 
cation of the principles of modern hygiene are the marked 
reduction in the sick- and death-rates due to infectious 
diseases, and the gradual increase in the average expecta- 
tion of life in those countries or places where systematic 
prophylactic and sanitary work is being done. Thus, in 
the so-called " registration-area " of the United States the 

1 The importance of such statistics is not fully appreciated unless the 
reader remembers that in a city of, say, a million inhabitants a reduc- 
tion of the death-rate one point means the saving of one thousand lives 
annually. 

" Twelfth Census of the United States, 1900, vol. iii, Vital Statistics, 
Part I, and The Census Bulletin (104) on Mortality Statistics for 1908. 



24 INTRODUCTION. 

death-rate for diphtheria has dropped from 70.1 per 100,- 
000 of population in 1890 to 22.3 in 1908 ; that of mala- 
rial fever, from 22.1 to 2.5 ; of typhoid fever, from 46.3 to 
25.3 ; and of tuberculosis, from 245.4 to 173.9 ; while the 
general death-rate of the same area has fallen in the same 
period of time from 19.6 to 15.36 per 1000 of population. 

This reduction, if applicable to the whole country, with 
an estimated population of 85,000,000, would represent a 
saving of 360,000 lives annually. Likewise, the average 
duration of life, according to high authority, is rapidly 
increasing e. g., the rate of increase in Europe " during 
the latter half of the nineteenth century was about seven- 
teen years per century, and in Germany, where medical 
and sanitary science has reached the highest development, 
about twenty -seven years per century." The only com- 
parative statistics available in this country are for Massa- 
chusetts, where life is lengthening at the rate of about 
fourteen years per century. 1 Who then shall say that 
the study and practice of hygiene and sanitation of pre- 
ventive medicine is of no practical value ? 

It will be well to note at this point the marked reflex 
influence that the adoption of an accurate or improved 
method for the registration of vital statistics has upon the 
sanitary status of any part of the population. Wherever 
a city or a State has adopted such a method there has 
almost immediately followed an improvement in its mor- 
bidity- and mortality-rates, for which reason the conditions 
obtaining in the component parts of the total "registration- 
area " of the United States are undoubtedly better than in 
similar or comparable portions of the remainder of the 
country. The registration -area is considered to be the 

Report on National Vitality, Its Waste and Conservation : Irving 
Fisher, 1909. 



CONTINUOUS PROPHYLAXIS NECESSARY. 25 

combined areas or localities where, m census years, " the 
deaths obtained from registration sources constituted 90 
or more per cent, of the total (registration plus additions 
from enumerators), and the additions from the census 
enumerators' returns did not exceed 20 per cent, of the 
number reported by them " ; and, in other than census 
years, where a similar accuracy of official registration of 
vital statistics obtains. 

Nevertheless, there is still much to be done. Tuber- 
culosis, which is said to cause from one-seventh to one- 
fourth of all the deaths in the civilized world, is practi- 
cally a preventable disease, and we now not only know its 
cause, but also have efficient means for cure in a large 
proportion of cases, as well as for its general prevention. 
So with a number of the other infectious diseases. Almost 
every day marks an increase in our knowledge of their 
etiology and the securing of immunity from them ; and 
not only must physicians make use of this knowledge 
as they acquire it, and employ their utmost endeavors to 
secure the enactment and enforcement of sanitary laws and 
regulations, but they must also realize that a large part of 
their work lies in the enlightenment and education of the 
people in all matters pertaining to the public health. 1 

The plague that was the bane of Europe centuries ago, 
and that has been a scourge to Asia since, still threatens us, 

1 It is encouraging to find that, although 12 per cent, of the whole 
number of deaths recorded in Philadelphia in 1900 were caused by con- 
sumption, a progressive and marked lowering of the death-rate from 
this disease in that city is taking place, and that, notwithstanding an 
increase in population of over 48.3 per cent., the fatalities from this dis- 
ease are not much greater in number than they were sixteen or seven- 
teen years ago. For example, the deaths from pulmonary tuberculosis 
in 1885 numbered 2821, and in 1886 were 2834, rates respectively of 2.97 
and 2.92 per 1000 living ; while in 1904 there were only 3117 deaths, or a 
rate of 2.22 per 1000 living. 



2fi INTRODUCTION. 

occasionally, at our western gates, and is rife in some of 
our newly acquired colonial possessions. The infectivity 
of pneumonia is not appreciated by the laity nor by many 
physicians. In Chicago, in the first five months of 1903, 
there were more than twice as many deaths from this dis- 
ease than from consumption, and more than 133 per cent, 
more than from all other communicable, contagious, or 
infectious diseases. We must not forget that this disease, 
which can be so pestilent, is " more or less limited to cen- 
tres, corresponding in the main to the most densely popu- 
lated areas, with their allied conditions of squalor and 
poverty," 1 and that it is our duty, and for our own safety, 
to improve the sanitary conditions and environments of 
such areas and centres. With our present knowledge of 
the value of vaccination, there have been far too many 
epidemics of smallpox in the past few years. 2 Careless- 
ness in the application of protective measures has cost 
many lives and much money. There can be no safe ces- 
sation in prophylactic efforts. So, also, each and every 
one of the communicable maladies must be continually 
investigated and studied, and all positive information 
gained concerning them must in turn be imparted to the 
people who need protection against them. 

Order of Study. In the preparation for a study like 
the one on which we are about to enter there is some ques- 
tion as to just what may be the most advantageous order 
and arrangement of the subjects to be treated. For in- 
stance, it would be interesting to discuss our science in its 
relation, in turn, to the individual, the household, and the 
people in general that is, personal, domestic, and public 

1 Anders, Journal of American Medical Association, May 9, 1903. 

* The deaths from small-pox in the registration-area of the United States 
for the years 1900 to 1904, inclusive, numbered 5898, this representing 
an average annual death-rate of 3.7 per 100,000 of population. 



DUTY OF PHYSICIANS. 27 

hygiene ; and to show wherein the treatment of these sub- 
divisions is similar and wherein they differ. Such a three- 
fold consideration would be not only logical, but extremely 
instructive as well. 

However, since the bacteria and other micro-organisms 
have been shown to have so important a part in many of 
the processes intimately connected with health and disease, 
it will doubtless be advisable to devote the next chapter 
to a brief review of the science of parasitology. This 
done, it seems to the writer that we shall, as beginners, 
obtain a more comprehensive and thorough view of our 
subject if we pursue a method somewhat as follows : 
First, to discuss air, water, and food three things essen- 
tial to life in the varying conditions and circumstances 
under which they may affect the physical welfare, either 
for good or bad, of the individual or of the community. 
Then to take up, in such order as may seem best, the 
other themes, such as climatology, habitations, disinfection 
and quarantine, disposal of sewage, clothing, exercise, 
school hygiene, etc., whose consideration, on account of 
their influence in the preservaton of health and prevention 
of disease, is only a degree less important than the fore- 
going. In this way, while the whole ground may not be 
covered, the importance of the various subdivisions may 
be estimated in their relationship to one another, and we 
shall be the better prepared to pursue the study as oppor- 
tunity may offer. 

It is doubtless in place just here to review briefly the 
reasons why it is the special duty of the physician to be 
able to recognize and correct insanitary conditions where- 
ever they may be found, and why he should make par- 
ticular and constant study of the science in all its branches 
and developments. 



28 INTRODUCTION. 

Every true physician soon finds that the respect and 
affection of his patients and associates are worth far more 
than mere mercenary gain, and that his highest aim should 
be to prevent disease rather than simply to cure it ; and, 
though this may seem to militate against his personal in- 
terests, he is unworthy the name of physician if his object 
and purpose be solely or primarily to make money. How- 
ever, the observer quickly learns that in a community 
kept in good health and sanitary condition there will 
always be more or less need of a doctor's services in 
spite of every effort to prevent sickness, and that such a 
community will pay more promptly and more liberally 
for such services than one in which sanitary precau- 
tions are neglected. Health means ability to work and 
to earn good wages ; and a healthy community means 
more business, more money, and more comforts. More- 
over, as a rule, good wages insure prompt and willing 
payment of the doctor's bills as well as of others. We 
may note here the close relations existing between sanitary 
science and social and political economy a relationship 
which is very intimate, as we shall see from time to time 
in our work, for as the physical condition of a people is 
bettered, it becomes more possible and more certain that 
they will likewise improve both mentally and morally. 

Again, though the science of hygiene and sanitation is 
comparatively a new one, public attention is being strongly 
directed toward it, not only because it vitally interests 
every one, but because new discoveries and new appli- 
cations of the laws pertaining to it are being constantly 
made, which are, in turn, swiftly given to the world by 
both the scientific and the popular press. This creates a 
demand for first-class teachers, which demand is bound 
to increase in the near future and promises materially 



DUTY OF PHYSICIANS. 29 

to exceed the supply. In fact, within a very few years 
not only the medical but also the academic and scientific 
colleges of the country will doubtless be compelled bv 
public opinion to establish in their faculties well-equipped 
and liberally endowed chairs of hygiene and sanitary 
science, and it will be from the ranks of the educated 
physicians of the country that these teachers must natu- 
rally come. It will not be long before the people in gen- 
eral realize that it is fully as important that the college 
student or graduate be instructed how to do his part in 
taking care of the health of himself, his future family, 
and the community in which he is to reside, as that he 
shall be well taught in the abstract principles of theology 
or the classics of dead languages. 

So, also, considerably more time and attention than are 
now accorded to it should be given to hygiene in the work 
of the various normal schools for teachers. The graduates 
of these schools will have much of the physical as well as 
the mental welfare of thousands of young and growing 
children in their keeping, and it is unquestionably their 
duty to prevent or obviate the ills of school-life as far 
as lies in their power, and to give instruction in and to 
inculcate habits of living which will continually tend to 
preserve and improve the physical health of those under 
their care. 

There is also need for trained sanitarians in the service 
of the various States and the large municipalities, and 
there is now an actual demand for such men with no 
corresponding supply in view. 

Lastly, the time has come when a physician must neces- 
sarily have a knowledge of hygiene, preventive medicine, 
and sanitary science. Many States require as thorough 
examinations in this as in any other branch of medicine 



30 INTRODUCTION. 

before granting the right to practise within their boun- 
daries. So do the army, navy, and marine-hospital ser- 
vices of the government. Moreover, the people generally, 
as has been intimated, are awakening to an interest in 
sanitary matters and the prevention of disease, and ex- 
pect their physicians to be well versed on all pertaining 
subjects ; if they find one lacking in knowledge or interest 
in this respect, they are apt to think, rightly or wrongly, 
that he will also be deficient in the other branches of 
medicine. 

Happily these causes all combine to place preventive 
on the same high plane with curative medicine, and the 
time is fast passing in which the chair of hygiene fails 
to have a primary place in any thorough medical school. 
May the day soon come when it shall have at least equal 
importance in the curriculum of all academic and normal 
colleges and schools ! 

It is evident that the successful physician and practical 
student of hygiene must have a thorough knowledge of 
three things : 1 . Health and its laws ; how to obtain and 
preserve it. This, of course, implies a knowledge of the 
human body and its functions, viz., of anatomy, physi- 
ology, and physiological chemistry. 2. He must study 
disease and its causes and nature. He must also under- 
stand the distinction between diseases due to causes exter- 
nal and those due to causes internal to the body ; and that 
while some of these causes may be prevented or modified, 
others, with our present knowledge, may not be so readily 
overcome. 3. He must be conversant with and know how 
to use the therapeutic agents, both preventive and cura- 
tive, that he has at his disposal, including not only drugs, 
but also all substances and forces that he can make effica- 
cious to his purpose. The workman must know his tools 
to be able to use them intelligently. 



DEFINITION OF HEALTH AND DISEASE. 31 

Health is " that condition of the body and its organs 
necessary to the proper performance of their normal 
functions " ; and disease may be defined as " a condition 
of the body marked by inharmonious action of one or 
more of the various tissues or organs, owing to abnormal 
condition or structural change." It is, accordingly, well 
to consider briefly the nature and causes of disease, that 
we may the better understand the influence upon its pre- 
vention or production of all those varying factors, phases, 
and conditions of our environment which we hope to 
study in our work. 

Disease is a pathologic or abnormal physiologic state, 
not a spiritual thing ; a condition, not a theory. Conse- 
quently it is to be fought and, if possible, conquered with 
matter, force, and physical means, though not necessarily 
with violence. In fact, when once we understand the min- 
uteness and delicate structure of the ultimate cells and tis- 
sues affected, we realize that oftentimes the gentlest applica- 
tion of the forces and means employed may be the most help- 
ful and efficient. But when one has seen the ravages caused 
by it, as revealed in the pathological laboratory and at 
autopsies, not to speak of its manifestations in the living 
as seen in the sick-room and in hospitals, I am sure that he 
cannot logically, even for a moment, give credence to those 
who proclaim that it can be dissipated by the mere action^ 
of mind or of faith ; nor to those others who declare that 
by subdividing and diluting and subdividing again infini- 
tesimally a single grain of substance, whether primarily 
powerful or inert, you endow it with a miraculous power 
to remove the " ills that flesh is heir to." Virchow gave 
a priceless boon to modern medicine in his theory of 
cellular pathology and in showing its superiority to the 
old humoral theories and a priori reasoning. He wrote 



32 INFR 01) UCTION. 

" whatever outside of a cell acts upon it (abnormally) 
works a mechanical or chemical change within it, which 
change is disorder or disease." The sooner we realize 
that the laws of physics and chemistry govern cell life 
and action and, consequently, the functions and organs of 
the body, the more accurate will be the treatment and 
the more certain the prevention of disease. 

For convenience' sake, diseases may be divided into two 
main classes, somewhat different in their origin, nature, 
and character, although the line between the two is not 
always clearly marked. Diseases of the first class arise 
within the body, and may be called autogendic. They 
are usually due to some alteration or disturbance of nu- 
trition and assimilation, such as irregular absorption of 
products of digestion, or of function, such as that of elimi- 
nation, to either of which, as well as to other similar 
causes, various auto-intoxications may be due. The sec- 
ond class comprises those which are due to causes from 
without, favored, it may be, by either internal or external 
predisposing conditions, but each malady of necessity 
depending upon the reception or inoculation of the spe- 
cial cause, which cause has the power of reproduction and 
development, of vitality and virulence. Such diseases 
are called contagious, infectious, specific, inoculable, or 
zymotic. 1 

1 In this connection the following quotation from Sedgwick is inter- 
esting: " Diseases may be regarded as due either to defects in the con- 
stitution or construction of the vital mechanism, or else to external 
unfavorable influences acting upon it. From the point of view of origin 
or causation, all diseases may be divided into two classes, viz. : I. Consti- 
tutional, or II. Environmental. This classification, while open to many 
objections, is of the highest value to the physiologist and the sanitarian, 
for it brings the former face to face with intrinsic, structural, or organic 
defects in the mechanism, while the attention of the latter is concen- 
trated upon those abnormal external influences which act unfavorably 
upon the organism, and which he must seek, and may be able to re- 
move." Principles of Sanitary Science and Public Health, 1902, p. 10. 



CLASSES OF DISEASE. 33 

A third class or a subdivision might also be indicated, 
which would include those disturbances which are almost 
purely psychical and whose symptoms are largely notional 
and the result of perverted imagination or coordination. 
But it is a question whether the primary cause of almost 
all such disorders is not an altered and abnormal nutri- 
tion or functioning of the general nervous economy of 
the body, and the symptoms simply reflex manifestations 
of irritative disturbances of distant organs. 

In the first class, with our present knowledge, we 
may place such maladies as gout, diabetes, neurasthenia, 
etc. ; while into the second will obviously fall all that are 
now known to be due to living " germs " or organisms, 
such as cholera, typhoid fever, malaria, etc. However, 
we must not overlook the impulses often given to the 
causation of certain members of the second class by faulty 
conditions of nutrition or assimilation, as is especially 
exemplified in many cases of tuberculosis. The char- 
acter of the soil may influence the growth and product 
of a plant almost as much as the species itself, and so the 
difference in constitution and tissue of individuals may 
materially determine the variation in symptoms and viru- 
lence so often manifested by an infectious malady. 

Prophylaxis is " the use of hygienic or other precau- 
tions conducive to the prevention of disease " ; or it may 
be defined as " a series of methods or procedures whereby 
disease is restricted and prevented by suppressing or re- 
moving its predisposing condition's, and destroying or 
modifying the exciting causes." Its first function of sup- 
pressing or removing ^predisposing conditions is accom- 
plished by sanitation; the second, that of destroying or 
modifying exciting causes, is carried out by disinfection. 
The term "predisposing conditions" should be used in- 



34 INTRODUCTION. 

stead of " predisposing causes/' because these conditions, 
cannot in themselves originate a disease, though they may 
make the system more susceptible to the exciting causes 
of a disease* For example^ the predisposing factors of 
tuberculosis -"privation^ depression, and excess" are 
conditions, and though they often prepare the tissues for 
the development of the malady, it can only occur after 
infection by the exciting cause, viz., the specific tubercle 
bacillus. 

As we have, as yet, little definite knowledge of the 
exact nature of the exciting causes of autogenetic diseases, 
they being developed and elaborated within the body, 
and as disinfection, or the destruction and modification 
of exciting causes, is an important feature of prophylaxis, 
we at present naturally look for more immediate and 
satisfactory results in the application of prophylaxis to 
the second class of diseases ; but this does not prevent or 
restrict the employment of certain prophylactic measures 
in regard to the first class, such as the selection of proper 
diet, clothing, climate, etc., and the removal or counter- 
acting of all influences favoring malnutrition or imperfect 
and improper functional activity. We may, therefore, 
say that sanitation is the defensive, disinfection the ag- 
gressive part of prophylaxis. 

To suppress and remove predisposing conditions and to 
prepare the body to resist and repel the action of exciting 
causes, we must not only strengthen its powers of resist- 
ance, but also make all external media as favorable to 
health and as hostile to the exciting causes as possible. 
The defensive powers of the body must lie in the indi- 
vidual cells and tissues of the body, including the vital 
fluids, and it is but natural to suppose that this repellent 
action to noxious substances is panbrmed best when the 



PROPHYLAXIS. 35 

cells and tissues are in most perfect health and most 
vigorous condition. This is not only good logic, but all 
experience and scientific research go to show that it has a 
firm foundation in fact. 

We shall soon learn that purity of the external media 
and environment of the body is essential to its welfare 
and that of its component tissues, and that conditions of 
impurity in these media predispose to disease. We shall 
also learn that a proper and sufficient supply of whole- 
some food is essential to health, and that certain other, 
factors, as sex, age, clothing, climate, etc., may act for 
good or ill in the determination of the balance between 
health and disease. In other words, if we strengthen the 
resistant powers of the system to the fullest extent and re- 
move all predisposing conditions, in all probability the 
exciting causes will be inoperative in most cases, and there 
will be no incurrence of disease. This is the essence of 
sanitation : to secure perfect health, to increase the inher- 
ent power to resist noxious and harmful influences, and 
to make all the surroundings and environments of the 
body safe and free from depressant factors. This applies 
equally to both classes of disease ; for with healthy cells 
and proper food there will not be faulty nutrition and 
assimilation or improper functioning and the consequent 
production of the exciting causes of autogenetic disease ; 
and with a vigorous resistance and wholesome environment 
there is little opportunity for the germs of infectious mala- 
dies to obtain a foothold within the system long enough to 
reproduce themselves and cause their characteristic dis- 
orders. The best means, therefore, of preventing disease 
is to learn and apply the best methods of attaining and 
retaining a healthy and vigorous state of the system, viz., 
to determine and observe the laws of hygiene. 



CHAPTEE IT. 

BACTERIOLOGY. 

THE increase in the knowledge concerning the lowest 
forms of life, and the discovery within recent years that 
these often have a causative action in the excitation of 
many maladies, have greatly facilitated the study of 
the prevention of disease. In fact, it is largely to this 
advance in knowledge and to the confirmation of the germ 
theory that much of the success of modern hygiene and 
sanitation is due. In addition many species of bacteria 
and other micro-organisms are of extreme importance be- 
cause their function is that of scavengers, continually 
working to remove and convert the useless and harmful, 
wastes of the world into matters of high value as food 
for organic life ; while still other kinds are being found 
to have great value in many strictly commercial processes. 
A review of the chief facts concerning them will there- 
fore be in place at this time. 

The unicellular vegetal micro-organisms divide them- 
selves into two general classes with respect to their man- 
ner of reproduction, viz., those that multiply by budding 
the blastomycdes and those that increase by simple 
division or fission the schizomycetes. In the first class 
we have the hyphomycetes or mould-fungi, and the sac- 
charomycetes or yeasts, examples of these being familiar 
to every one. However, it is with the fission-fungi, or 
bacteria as they are now more generally known, that we 
are most concerned as sanitarians, since they practically 
include almost all those vegetal micro-organisms that are 

36 



CHARACTERISTICS OF BACTERIA. 37 

more or less closely connected with the production of 
disease as well as with the removal of offensive matter. 
Comparatively few of the yeasts and moulds are patho- 
genic, and then only indirectly or in a minor degree. 

Bacteriology, then, is the science of those unicellular 
vegetal micro-organisms that multiply by direct division 
(fission), or, as occasionally happens, by the development 
of spores. Its study consists in the examination by means 
of the microscope of the form and method of growth of 
these minute plants, in their artificial cultivation on or in 
suitable media, and in the determination of the effects of 
the inoculation of pure cultures upon animals. To these 
may be added another field of research that gives promise 
of much development in the near future, viz., the study 
of the chemistry of the bacterial products and of the reac- 
tions produced by their presence in culture-media and in 
living tissues. 

Although more than two centuries have elapsed since 
the discovery of the bacteria by Leeuwenhoek (about 
1680), and though Plenciz advanced as early as 1762 
what is practically the germ theory of to-day, most of our 
knowledge concerning the physiology, methods of cultiva- 
tion, and differentiation of the bacteria has been acquired 
within little more than a quarter of a century. It is true 
that some earlier advance had been made in sterilization, 
and that Cohn, by establishing the fact of spore-formation, 
demolished the last arguments in favor of spontaneous 
generation, and confirmed the science of bacteriology ; but 
until within the last three decades we had but little knowl- 
edge as to the means of separating and isolating the differ- 
ent species and making pure cultures, or of preparing 
culture-media, staining, etc. 

As has been intimated, the bacteria are unicellular 



38 BACTERIOLOGY. 

organisms, usually multiplying by a process of cell-elonga- 
tion and fission. Being without chlorophyll, they cannot 
absorb and decompose carbon dioxide and ammonia, as do 
the higher plants ; but require for their growth and nutri- 
tion organic matter usually soluble albumin in the pres- 
ence of moisture. 1 Hence they must be either saprophytes 
or parasites. As the combination of albuminous organic 

FIG. 1. 




Micrococci (gonococci) in pus-cells. X 1000. 

matter and water is extremely common, so the distribu- 
tion of the bacteria over the earth is widespread and prac- 
tically universal. 

Some of the bacteria may, under adverse conditions, 
such as lack of nutriment or of moisture, too alkaline or 
too acid a medium, extremes of temperature, etc., or on the 
other hand, as a result of the attainment of a stage of 

1 It will be understood that these statements and many of those to 
follow are more or less general, and that certain species of the bacteria 
may present notable exceptions. 



CHARACTERISTICS OF BACTERIA. 39 

maximum development, produce spores which are much 
more strongly resistant to deleterious influences than the 
bacteria themselves. In this way the spore-forming 
species may often survive the action of disinfectants or 
other agencies that are sufficient to destroy other bacteria. 
Upon the resumption or recurrence of favorable conditions 
the spores develop into cells similar in form and nature 
to their parent cells. It is to be remembered that spores 

Fio. 2. 



K&[ - r v v .,.*-. 

M 

. *-. -1 







' 



Tubercle bacilli in sputum. X 1000. 

do not reproduce spores, and that " a single cell produces 
but one spore." l 

Under the microscope the spores are seen as highly 
refractive spherical bodies that stain with difficulty, and 
evidently have a very resistant envelope, probably of cellu- 
lose. The interior of bacteria and spores is protoplasm. 
So far as is positively known at this time, only certain of 
the bacilli form spores, while a few of the spirilla and 
1 Abbott, Principles of Bacteriology, 1st ed., p. 3J. 



40 BACTERIOLOGY. 

one or two species of micrococci probably have the same 
faculty. 

Again, under certain peculiar conditions some organisms 
may develop another morphologic change, the so-called 
involution-forms. These are doubtless pathologically 
distorted cells, with probably diminished resisting powers, 
but which will revert to the normal type under favorable 
conditions, providing the unfavorable environment does 
not kill them. 

Lastly, at times certain individuals of a species seem to 
have departed from the typical form, but these departures 
are only different phases in the normal development. Thus 
a young bacillus may be shorter than the adult and look 
much like a coccus, or a coccus about to undergo division 
may be oval in shape and considerably larger than the 
quiescent members of its species. But one form of 
bacteria never permanently takes that of another micro- 
cocci are always micrococci, bacilli always bacilli, etc. 

A thoroughly scientific classification of the bacteria is 
scarcely possible as yet, owing to our incomplete knowl- 
edge of their character, method of growth, physiology, 
etc. However, there are a number of ways in which we 
may subdivide them, none of them exactly scientific, per- 
haps, but still sufficiently accurate and convenient for 
our purpose. If we consider the bacteria as to form, we 
have : (a) micrococci, spherical in shape ; (6) bacilli, which 
have one diameter longer than another ; and (c) spirilla, 
spirals or segment of spirals. 1 We shall have more to say 
hereafter of the characteristics of each of these subdivisions. 

'Accurately speaking, some of the so-called higher bacteria have 
more elaborate development and distinction as to form, but as our pres- 
ent discussion has almost entirely to do with the phenomena of the lower 
and simpler bacteria, the former may henceforth be omitted from the 
discussion. 



CLASSIFICATION OF BACTERIA. 41 

Accordingly as they live best with or without air or oxy- 
gen they are aerobic or anaerobic. Again, they may be 
named according to their product e. g., some produce 
colors, chromogenic ; others pus, pyogenic, etc. Lastly, 
they exist and grow either as saprophytes upon dead, or 
as parasites upon living organic matter. We also say 
that an organism is optional, or facultative when it is at 
one time a saprophyte and at another a parasite, or at 
one time aerobic and again anaerobic ; and that it is 
obligate when it has not this property of changing its 
nature according to surrounding conditions. 

Some of the micrococci are named according to the 
manner in which they grow. If in pairs, they are called 
dipl o cocci ; in fours, tetracocci ; in threads, streptococci, 
etc. Groups or masses of micrococci or bacilli held to- 
gether by a gelatinous substance are called zooglea. As 
compared with other bacteria, with one or two exceptions, 
we know but little about the spirilla. The germ of 
cholera the comma bacillus (?) belongs to this class, 
and the cause of relapsing fever is also probably a spirillum. 

Most of the bacteria thrive best in culture-media that 
are neutral or only slightly alkaline, though a few species 
seem to do better in slightly acid surroundings. So, also, 
they do best at temperatures ranging between 20 and 
40 C. (68 and 104 F.), though they may grow at any 
temperature between 5 and 43 C. (41 and 109.4 F.). 
Any marked deviation in the culture-media from the 
neutral point or continued exposure to extremes of tem- 
perature may either check the growth of the organisms 
altogether, and eventually destroy them, or may cause 
spore-formation, or the production of involution-forms, 
or a change in the composition and the character of the 
chemical products which the bacteria normally produce. 



42 



BACTERIOLOGY. 



This also holds good with respect to any other condition or 
substance that may be deleterious to the bacteria in their 
normal state ; wherefore we shall see that such factors are 
important as having a decided influence in altering the viru- 
lence of pathogenic bacteria and in suggesting methods for 
bringing about a condition of immunity to their attacks. 

As it is rare to find isolated individual species anywhere 
except in pure cultures artificially prepared, it is evident 




Spirillum of Asiatic cholera. X 1000. 

that we must devise some way of separating the different 
kinds of organisms one from another. This is best 
accomplished by the method suggested by Koch, viz., to 
introduce the mixed kinds into some melted culture- 
medium, like nutrient gelatin, which solidifies on cooling, 
but whose melting-point is not sufficiently high to destroy 
the vitality of the germs. If the fluid be well shaken, 
the various species will be distributed through it, and, upon 
cooling, each individual or group (zooglea) of individuals 



SEPARATION OF SPECIES. 



43 



of the same kind will be fixed in its place and become the 
starting-point of a colony of that special kind. Moreover, 
if the gelatin before cooling be poured upon sterilized 

FIG. 4. 




Bacilli of hog cholera, showing flagclla. X 1000. 

glass plates or into flat (Petri) dishes (Fig. 5), the subse- 
quent work of counting, examining, and making cultures 
from the colonies thus secured will be greatly facilitated, 

FIG. 5. 




Petri double dish (now generally used instead of plates). 

while by transplanting and repeating the process one or 
more times, absolutely pure cultures of each species ii) 
the original mixture may be obtained. 



44 BACTERIOLOGY. 

Special care must be taken in this, as in all other bacte- 
riological methods or operations, to prevent contamination 
of cultures, media, or apparatus by other organisms which 
are almost omnipresent, and which would prevent accurate 
results or deductions were they not rigidly excluded or 
destroyed. Obviously, we may not use chemical disinfect- 
ants or antiseptics as a means of destroying the interfering 
microbes, for such procedure would kill or inhibit the 
growth of the bacteria we desire to cultivate ; but we must 
sterilize by heat all the articles used, together with their 
contents. This, if properly done, does not affect the 
nutrient properties of the culture-media, while it does 
remove the danger of contamination already present. 

In sterilizing we may use either dry or moist heat, the 
latter being far more preferable in most cases, since to 
be effectual it does not require so high a temperature nor 
so long a time as does the former. Moist heat, especially 
in the form of steam, is more penetrating than dry heat ; 
beside, dry heat must be of so high a temperature that 
it may render useless for culture purposes such substances 
as nutrient gelatin. Glassware and the like, however, 
may be quickly and advantageously sterilized by dry heat. 
On the other hand, certain substances, like blood-serum, 
are spoiled for culture purposes even by moist heat con- 
tinued sufficiently long to kill the spores possibly present, 
as the latter require a higher temperature or more pro- 
longed heating to sterilize them than the bacteria without 
spores. Resort is therefore had to fractional sterilization in 
such cases, exposing the materials for only a short time to 
a temperature just sufficient to destroy the bacteria, repeat- 
ing the process after an interval, say twenty-four hours, 
which is presumably sufficient to allow the spores to 
develop into bacteria; and again a third time, after a like 



STERILIZATION. 



45 



interval, to insure absolute sterilization. Previous to 
sterilizing the culture-media and apparatus we aim to pre- 
vent the subsequent access of contaminating germs to the 
interior of tubes and vessels by using plugs or stoppers of 
cotton-wool, covering these, when necessary, with rubber 
caps or paraffin wax to prevent the evaporation of fluids, 
or of moisture from the gelatin, etc. 

FIG. 6. 





Steam sterilizer, pattern of Koch. 

As a basis for a number of culture-media we may use 
beef-broth or bouillon, which is a fluid especially favor- 
able to bacterial growth in that it contains an abundance 
of albumin in solution. When a solid medium is desired, 
either gelatin or agar-agar (a gelatin-like substance ob- 
tained from Japan) may be added to bouillon, giving 
nutrient gelatin and nutrient agar-agar. Of these, the 



46 BACTE&10L06T. 

gelatin has a melting-point below the temperature of the 
human body, while that of agar is above ; consequently we 
employ the latter when it is desired to cultivate germs that 
grow best at the body temperature, although the develop- 
ment of most bacteria is usually more rapid and charac- 
teristic upon gelatin. Blood-serum, sterilized and solidi- 
fied, is also used for the cultivation of certain organisms, 

FIG. 7. 




Arnold steam sterilizer. 



such as the diphtheria bacillus; and there are certain 
others which can best be identified by their difference in 
growth upon boiled potato, milk, etc. 

The differentiation of the various species of bacteria is 
to be made by noting their appearance and form under 
the microscope, whether they are motile or not, how they 
take different stains, etc. ; by observing their methods of 
growth in or upon different culture-media, and the color 
and appearance of the colonies ; by noting whether they 



OF SPECIES. 4? 

are aerobic or anaerobic, or facultative, and at what tem- 
peratures they thrive best, etc. ; and finally by studying 
their action and the effect of their products upon living 
animals. In this way we may determine the characteris- 
tics of each individual or species, and will eventually have 
the data for a strictly scientific classification of the bac- 
teria in general. For example, the organisms causing 
suppuration are usually micrococci, occurring in clusters 
(staphylococci) or in chains (streptococci) ; the cause of 
typhoid fever is a bacillus, and the cholera germ belongs 
to the spirilla. The tubercle bacillus stains with marked 




Ruled square for counting colonies. 

difficulty, but when stained is not readily decolorized by a 
weak solution of nitric acid, as are almost all other bacilli. 
Some bacteria liquefy nutrient gelatin, others do not, and 
almost none liquefy agar-agar. This liquefaction is not a 
melting, but rather a kind of peptonization, since the 
gelatin will not solidify after this occurs, as it does after 
being subjected to moderate warming. Again, some bac- 
teria produce one particular color or chemical substance in 
the presence of oxygen, and another in its absence ; some 
produce color only in the light, others only in the dark, 
etc. finally, different pathogenic microbes cause differ- 
ent maladies when inoculated in animals or human beings, 



48 B A CTERIOLOG Y. 

and the same germ may produce different results in ani- 
mals of different species or families. 1 

The subdivision of the bacteria into saprophytes and 
parasites has already been noted. Therefore, it must be 
remembered that not all of these microscopic plants are 
disease-producers; much the larger proportion, in fact, 

FIG. 9. 




Pocket-case containing sterilized culture-tubes, platinum needle, and 
alcohol lamp, used for obtaining cultures for diagnosis, etc. 

being benefactors rather than otherwise to the human 
race. 

The function of many of the saprophytic organisms 
is to change dead organic matter into simpler chemical 

1 See Kenwood's Hygienic Laboratory, pp. 466-470; also McFarlaud's 
Pathogenic Bacteria, pp. 46-57. 



FUNCTIONS OF SAPROPHYTES. 49 

compounds and ultimately into end-products such as carbon 
dioxide, ammonia, and water, these latter substances being 
once more utilized in the nutrition of the higher forms 
of vegetable life, which are in turn necessary to the exist- 
ence of the animal life upon the globe. One should also 
understand that some of the saprophytes in the soil seem 
to possess a constructive or synthetic power, elaborating 
more complex plant-foods from the simple compounds men- 
tioned. Indeed, it is only when the student of hygiene 
fairly realizes the wide scope of the functions of these mi- 
nute but almost omnipresent scavengers that he will com- 
prehend the important part they play in the purification 
of our environment. In the air they possibly help the 
oxygen to destroy the harmful effluvia and exhalations of 
men and animals and the floating debris of organic sub- 
stances ; in the soil, the common receptacle of the wastes 
and refuse of vital activity, they quickly and continually 
convert these noxious additions into foods of the highest 
value to growing plants ; in running streams and quiet 
pools they are of the greatest importance in the removal 
of the dangerous impurities washed from the surface of 
the land or recklessly discharged from humait habitations, 
factories, and the like. And not only do the saprophytes 
help mankind in this way, but members of the class are 
beneficent in many others. For example, they enable 
those plants, the leguminosse, which yield us the largest 
supply of vegetable proteids, to derive much of their 
nitrogen almost directly from the atmosphere ; they have 
much to do with the flavor and value of dairy products> 
and uses in which they may be employed in the domestic 
and commercial affairs of life are being newly announced 
from day to day. Thus we find the bacteria of this class, 
which comprises by far the greater number of known 
4 



50 BACTERIOLOGY. 

species, to be our benefactors and indispensable servants 
both in preventing the accumulation of noxious and harm- 
ful substances upon the earth and in helping to produce 
the food which we eat and many things that we need and 
use in our daily life. 

The parasitic bacteria, on the other hand, have their 
habitat in or upon highly organized living matter, and 
exist at its expense. They also produce in their growth 
poisonous substances, called toxins and toxalbumins, that 
are either locally or generally harmful to the organism 
that is their host. It is needless to say that it is in this 
class that we find the disease germs, or pathogens as some 
would call them. It should not be forgotten, however, that 
the saprophytes, in bringing about the decomposition of 
complex organic bodies, may also produce ptoma/ins, which 
may or may not be toxic to animal life. Of these latter, 
we may instance as good examples the cadaveric poison of 
the dissecting-room or the dangerous tyrotoxicon, a by no 
means uncommon product in the decomposition of milk or 
ice-cream. But though ptomai'ns may be more or less char- 
acteristic of the respective bacteria that produce them, each 
varies in its composition and properties according to the 
substance upon or in which it is produced, while the toxins 
are specific derivatives or " active principles " of their 
respective micro-organisms. In other words, different 
kinds of saprophytes may produce the same ptomai'n 
from a given organic substance, but each toxin is the 
product of its own particular species of bacteria and 
is independent of the latter's place of growth or environ- 
ment. 

Considering for the present the pathogenic bacteria 
alone, we are naturally brought to the discussion of the 
germ theory, which is, that the exciting cause of each 



AND PTOMAINS. 51 

contagious or infectious disease is some specific parasitic- 
organism, and that these diseases are each communicated 
only by the transference to and development of its par- 
ticular parasite or germ within or upon the tissues of the 
infected individual. Consequently such diseases are trans- 
mitted from one person to another, or in some cases from 
animals to men or vice versa, by means of these micro- 
organisms, and the transferrence is by air, water, food, or 
other fomites, or by direct contact. It is evident that if 
acquired knowledge establishes the truth of this theory, 
the prevention of infectious diseases is greatly simpli- 
fied and becomes merely a matter of combining effective 
sanitation, of which we have spoken, with the destruction 
of the specific exciting causes i. e., disinfection. Nor is 
it essential that we any longer make a distinction between 
the terms contagious, infectious, zymotic, and specific, that 
formerly obtained, since they may practically be used 
synonymously. The first of these terms used to be ap- 
plied to those diseases which were believed to be trans- 
mitted most frequently by direct contact, and infectious 
to those of which the transmission was usually by fomites. 
But we know that germs of the former class may be trans- 
mitted by air, water, food, etc., and those of the latter by 
personal contact, though the reverse is what usually hap- 
pens in the respective cases. Occasionally disease occurs 
also by inoculation, the exciting organisms being intro- 
duced into the body either accidentally or intentionally 
through some wound in the protecting skin or mucous 
membrane. The term zymotic was formerly applied to 
those diseases occurring in epidemics, and which were 
supposed to be due to fermentative processes ; if used at 
all, it should be given to any disease due to a living 
germ. The term specific should only be given to those 



52 BA CTERIOLOG Y. 

maladies which have a specific origin i. e., which have 
been proved to be due to a single organism. 

In this connection we may define an epidemic as " an 
outbreak of a communicable or infectious disease affecting 
a dozen or more individuals in quick succession before the 
recovery of the first case, whether arising from a single 
focus or several foci in a neighborhood." 1 An endemic 
disease is one occurring more or less constantly in a cer- 
tain locality. When an epidemic extends over a very 
large territory, it is said to be pandemic. 

That all communicable diseases are due to vegetal germs 
or kindred animal organisms is more than probable, and 
while there are some for which this has not been fully 
proved, it is scarcely possible that any of these may arise 
from insanitary conditions without the presence of a living 
causative organism. 

The reasons for believing in the germ theory are based 
on empirical and logical facts as well as theoretical hypoth- 
eses. Ignoring at present the scientific research work 
already done, it is evident that the substance that causes 
a disease the contagium must, when introduced into a 
susceptible person or animal, increase in quantity to an 
enormous extent. Note, for instance, the large quantity 
of actively virulent matter thrown off from a case of 
smallpox or scarlet fever, and yet how very little is 
required to initiate an attack of the disease. No lifeless 
chemical substance has the power of being increased to 
such an extent by simply finding lodgment in a suitable 
medium. The poison or contagium, whatever it may be, 
evidently must have life and the power of reproduction. 

Moreover, these causes of disease, when freed from the 
body, may be carried long distances, and may still retain 

1 Committee of American Public Health Association, 1898. 



KOCH'S POSTULATES. 53 

for years their power for harm, only waiting a suitable field 
in which to multiply and cause the same malady as before. 
Such causes must therefore be capable of entering a state 
in which vitality is latent, and in which the reproductive 
functions are for a time inactive. But it is known that 
the spores of many bacteria, and sometimes the bacteria 
themselves, may be carried afar, kept for long periods of 
time, and even exposed to wide extremes of temperature, 
without being killed or losing their power of reproduction 
and rapid multiplication. Again, we know that substances 
that are poisonous to or that prevent the development of 
these bacteria and kindred low forms of life, do, when 
properly used, prevent or remove the danger of contagion 
and infection. 

There is also in the development and progress of 
infectious disease a direct analogy to the phenomena of 
fermentation, whose causative organisms are of the same 
order as these which we are considering ; the same rapid 
multiplication of cells in suitable media at proper tem- 
peratures a period of incubation and then changes in the 
infected body or host, which, after going on to a certain 
extent, check the further development and multiplication 
of the organism. What it is in the medium that checks 
the growth of the germ we may not be able to determine 
a priori, but we may assume it to be something hostile to 
the contagium, as alcohol above a certain percentage in 
the fermenting medium is deterrent to the further growth 
of the yeast-cell. 

Lastly, if the proof of Koch's postulates is essential to 
the acceptance of a given micro-organism as the cause of 
a given disease, we must believe, on the other hand, that 
a certain germ is a cause, if not the only one, of a certain 



54 B A CTEBIOL OOY. 

malady if these postulates be proved with respect to the 
germ and the malady. 

To determine whether an organism is or is not patho- 
genic it is necessary to experiment on living animals. To 
do this we must use pure cultures of the organism and 
carry out all our processes, including inoculations and 
autopsies, under strictly antiseptic precautions. For ex- 
ample, we may examine microscopically the blood and 
various tissues of a diseased animal ; if bacteria be present 
in any of these, we make cultures from them, and if more 
than one kind of bacteria be present, the various kinds 
must be isolated and pure cultures made from each kind. 
When a pure culture is at last obtained, it may be studied 
both microscopically and as to its characteristics in various 
media and at different temperatures. Finally, healthy 
animals known to be susceptible to the disease in question 
are inoculated from the pure culture and, after the period 
of incubation, carefully watched for symptoms of the dis- 
ease. Should these manifest themselves, the animal is 
killed and its blood and tissues carefully examined for 
the inoculated organisms. A similar study is to be made 
of each species isolated from the first animal. 

The postulates of Koch, which are necessary to prove 
that a germ is the cause of a given disease, are : 1. The 
micro-organism must be found in the blood, lymph, or 
tissues of a person or animal sick or dead of the disease. 
2. The micro-organism must be isolated from the blood, 
lymph, or tissues, and cultivated in suitable media out- 
side of the animal body. These cultivations must be 
carried on through several generations until a pure cult- 
ure of the germ is obtained. 3. A pure culture thus 
obtained must, when introduced into a healthy and sus- 
ceptible animal, produce the disease in question. 4. In 



KOCH'S POSTULATES. 55 

the inoculated animal the same organism must again be 
found. 

In the case of many diseases peculiar to human beings 
alone the third condition must remain undetermined and 
our chain of proof be broken, because we should not en- 
danger human health or life by experimental inoculations. 
But in diseases common to men and animals the experi- 
ments necessary can be completely carried out, and where 
a germ can be proved to be the cause, according to these 
postulates, of the malady in animals, we can also fairly 
conclude that it is the cause of the same disease in human 
beings. The specific germs of a number of maladies com- 
mon to man and beast have thus been determined, together 
with those of a large number of affections peculiar to ani- 
mals alone. 

Granting that a certain organism be pathogenic, infec- 
tion by it will depend not only upon the susceptibility of 
the animal or person concerned, but also upon the method 
of entrance into the body, the number of microbes intro- 
duced and present, and especially upon their degree of 
virulence. Thus, the tubercle bacilli produce effects of 
different character and gravity in different tissues, and it 
needs no argument to show that while the normal resistance 
of the body may be all-sufficient to overcome a few vicious 
germs taken in with the air, food, or drink, it may be en- 
tirely inadequate to resist and may quickly succumb to 
large numbers of the same enemy, especially if the viru- 
lence of the latter be enhanced, as we now know it may 
be, by various factors that thus assume great sanitary 
importance. Not the least of these are temperature and 
nutrient conditions, and change in potency due to growth 
and development in certain animal or human bodies. 

After infection or the reception of the contagium by a 



56 BACTERIOLOGY. 

susceptible animal or person there is a period of incuba- 
tion before the manifestation of the characteristic symp- 
toms of the disease. This period is variable according 
to the disease or kind of germ, and during it the micro- 
organisms rapidly increase in numbers and in their conse- 
quent power for evil. 

After the pathological process is well under way we 
shall probably find one of two conditions existing, viz., 
that " in which the blood is the chief field of activity of 
the organisms," * and the vessels of the victim are swarm- 
ing with the microbes in other words, a true septicaemia ; 
or else one in which " the poisonous results are not neces- 
sarily accompanied by the growth of organisms in the 
tissues," these latter, in all likelihood, not extending 
beyond the lymphatic glands nearest to the point of inocu- 
lation i. c., a toxaemia. A good example of the former 
condition is furnished by a case of anthrax or of pyaemia, 
and of the latter by diphtheria. However, we shall find 
in either condition that if we isolate the peculiar product 
or toxin of the specific germ, either from artificial growths 
upon or in culture-media, or from the blood or tissues of 
an animal sick or dead of the disease, and inoculate this 
into a susceptible animal, the general symptoms and 
results produced are practically the same as in an ordinary 
case of the disease. This goes to prove that the products 
of pathogenic organisms are toxic in character and harm- 
ful to the tissues, either locally or generally ; that each 
of these toxic products gives rise in susceptible animals to 
characteristic symptoms which, taken together, indicate 
a specific disease, and that infection must be accordingly 
a biochemic and toxicologic process. Another point to 
note just here is that these toxins are apparently harmful 
1 Abbott, Joe. cit. 



IMMUNITY. 57 

to the microbes themselves whenever they exceed a cer- 
tain amount, as is shown by the fact that most of the 
infectious diseases are self-limiting, and by the cessation 
of growth and even the death of the germs in the various 
culture-media after a certain length of time. It is but 
fair to state, however, that there are other possible expla- 
nations of this latter phenomenon, viz., an increase in the 
resistance of the infected body to the action of the germs 
and toxins, or, as in the case of culture-media, the marked 
change in reaction caused by the microbial products. 

Nothing that has been said in the foregoing pages 
should cause the reader to infer thai all infectious diseases 
are caused solely by bacteria. Although the maladies due 
to the latter have thus far attracted the earlier and greater 
attention and study, a number of transmissible affections 
are now known to be due to animal Organisms, and it 
is probable that still others will be added to the list. But 
whether a disease be due to bacteria, protozoa, or microbes 
of a higher classification, the general principles stated 
above will serve to give an understanding of their nature 
and mode of causation. 

Immunity. Having thus obtained some knowledge of 
the exciting causes of infectious diseases and of how they 
act, one of the most important considerations is in relation 
to the prevention of the incurrence of these diseases by the 
well, and to the antagonizing or checking of the further 
action of the cause in those already infected. It is well to 
disinfect and to destroy disease germs whenever and wher- 
ever it is possible to do so, and at the same time to prevent 
in any manner their transferrence from unknown or inac- 
cessible sources to susceptible persons, but it is still better 
so to strengthen and fortify the human body that the mi- 
crobes, even though received into it, will be unable to do 
it harm. Naturally our first desire woulcl be to secure a 



58 BACTERIOLOGY. 

permanent insusceptibility, if this might be had without too 
great risk or discomfort ; but since this is rarely possible 
Avith our present knowledge, we must endeavor, especially 
when the danger of infection is imminent, to secure the 
greatest possible immunity even though that may be only 
temporary or incomplete. Occasionally we find indi- 
viduals that possess extreme natural immunity to certain 
maladies ; observation shows that most well persons have 
fair protection in the case of ordinary exposure to infec- 
tious matter; and further investigation teaches that this 
protection is materially affected by such factors as one's 
state of health, occupation, age, or diet, or by injuries, 
drugs, fatigue, exposure to heat or cold, etc. But our 
desire is to know how to provide a positive immunity 
against each infection and for all persons. That we have 
the means of producing such protection in the case of one 
disease, at least, is well shown by the history of vaccina- 
tion ; and the work of many investigators in recent years 
indicates that the promise of similar results in regard to 
many other maladies is by no means vain. Certain it is 
that many human beings and animals have been rendered 
apparently immune to other fatal diseases, and the indica- 
tions point to the probability that the human race will 
shortly have the same protection against most of the trans- 
missible maladies that it now has against smallpox. 

"At present the chief successes of immuno-therapy 
have to do with the bacterial diseases, but experiments 
show that the same principles prevail among the proto- 
zoan infections, and there is little doubt that as our 
knowledge of these maladies becomes amplified the bene- 
fits of immunological research will be found to be avail- 
able in them. It is now universally admitted that mi- 
crobes are pathogenic or disease producing by virtue of 
certain poisonous metabolic products. 



IMMUNITY. 59 

" These toxic products, embracing what have been vari- 
ously described by different authors as toxins, toxalbumins, 
and bacterioproteins, are all of proteid nature. Their physi- 
ological effects vary greatly among themselves, but they all 
have in common, and together with practically all hetero- 
logous proteid substances, the property of stimulating cer- 
tain antagonistic physiologico-chemical reactions on the 
part of higher organisms, and hence are included in a 
group of miscellaneous character, to which the name 
antigen has in recent years been applied. By antigen, 
therefore, is meant any substance capable of stimulating 
an antagonistic reaction when introduced into the body 
of one of the higher organisms. The nature of the re- 
action is, in itself, unimportant, so long as its tendency is 
antagonistic to the antigen." l 

Just here it may be well to consider several theories that 
have been advanced in the attempt to explain the phenom- 
ena of immunity. Of these, two have been practically dis- 
proved, viz., the exhaustion theory of Pasteur, which was 
that the pathogenic germs in their process of growth 
in the body removed some material from the latter neces- 
sary to their existence ; and the diametrically opposite 
retention theory of Chauveau, which was that the germs 
produced some substance which gave immunity as long as 
it was retained in the tissues. On the other hand, there 
are strong adherents to both the phagocytosis theory of 
Metchnikoff and the humoral theory of Biichner. 

The phagocytosis theory is, "that immunity against 
infection is essentially a matter between the invading 
bacteria on the one hand and the leucocytes of the tissues 
on the other; that during the first attack of the disease the 
white blood-corpuscles gain a tolerance to the poisons of 

1 McFarland in Modern Clinical Medicine, Wilson & Saliuger, 1910, 
pp. 909, 910. 



60 BACTERIOLOGY. 

the bacteria, and so are able to resist the next incursions 
of the enemy and actually to attack and destroy the latter." 
Biichner has apparently shown that the blood-plasma, 
especially that of immune animals, is bactericidal to many 
virulent germs, and he attributes this effect to the pres- 
ence in the fluid of certain proteid substances akin to 
globulin. These he terms alexins, from a Greek word 
meaning to protect. Further, he believes that they act 
chemically in causing death of the disease germs, and 
that the increased amount of alexins in the blood of those 
who have acquired immunity is brought about by a stimu- 
lation or "reactive change" in certain cells due to the 
presence of the bacteria or their products. Moreover, this 
humoral theory serves to account for the natural immu- 
nity possessed by some individuals and animals, their body- 
juices presumably containing, through some cause or other, 
an extra quantity of the protective proteids. 

But an essential factor in securing immunity is the 
power of the body to resist or endure the poisons produced 
by the disease germs, something fully as important as its 
ability to destroy the infecting organisms. Consequently 
there is another theory that of the antitoxins which, 
in view of recent developments and the fact that it 
is capable of immediate practical application, is one of 
the most important thus far proposed. It is well known 
that the human system has the power of tolerating 
or accommodating itself to the action of almost any 
toxic substance provided the latter be administered at 
first in sufficiently minute doses and then gradually 
increased until it can in time withstand quantities that 
would quickly prove fatal to one unaccustomed to the 
poison. Ehrlich has further shown that with the toxic 
alkaloids of certain higher plants, after a certain degree 



ANTITOXIN THEORY. 61 

of tolerance is attained the administration of the drug may 
be much more rapidly increased, and that while up to this 
point no apparent change occurs in the body-fluids, now, 
when the tolerance becomes so much increased, a new 
substance is produced in the blood which is capable of 
neutralizing the poison in not only the person or animal 
under experimentation, but also in others into whom it 
may be introduced. Further investigations have shown 
that this same production of antidotal or antagonizing 
substances may be brought about by the slow adminis- 
tration of the toxins of pathogenic bacteria something 
not hard to understand when we remember that the 
bacterial toxins are just as much the products of plant-life 
as are the alkaloids that Ehrlich used, and very much 
like the latter in composition. "Antitoxin is thus chiefly 
known to us as a specific disease-resisting constituent of 
the serum of immunized animals." 

On the other hand, the antitoxins, as these substances 
antidotal to the toxins are called, have been found to be 
albuminoid in character and similar in composition to the 
nucleins. In fact, attempts have been made to employ 
the latter in place of or in conjunction with the anti- 
toxins, with results that have not been altogether without 
success. 

Much credit must be given to the labors of Behring, 
Roux, Kitasato, Haffkine, and others for the development 
of practical methods of using the antitoxins, methods 
which are now recognized as eminently proper and even 
superior to any others in the treatment of some of the 
most virulent diseases. The great reduction in the mor- 
tality from one disease alone diphtheria already attained 
through the application of this treatment almost exceeds 
expectation and belief, and the promise seems now to be 



62 BACtERIOLOGY. 

that the results with respect to cholera and other deadly 
maladies will be equally brilliant and add further glory to 
this new science of bacteriology. 

More recently Wright has shown that the blood contains 
certain substances which can so affect disease-producing 
bacteria that the leucocytes will more readily destroy 
them by phagocytosis. These substances, which he calls 
opsonins, vary not only in quantity in different persons, 
but apparently also in quality, there being probably a 
specific opsonin for each kind of pathogenic organism. 
Moreover, it has been found that in many cases the 
amount or influence of a given opsonin can be increased 
in the blood by appropriate inoculation of sterilized bac- 
teria of its particular kind ; and, secondly, that by deter- 
mining a patient's opsonic index for a particular disease 
we can approximately estimate his power of resistance or 
degree of immunity to that disease. The opsonic index 
of an individual is the ratio between the phagocytic power 
of a certain number of leucocytes as indicated by the 
number of bacteria taken up in a given time when acted 
upon by a unit of his serum and the power of the same 
number of the same kind of leucocytes when acted upon 
by a unit of serum from a normal and healthy person. 

To some it may seem that either the humoral or the 
antitoxin theory is identical with the discarded retention 
theory of Chauveau ; but it should be noted that accord- 
ing to the latter the invading microbes themselves produce 
the antidote or antagonizing substance, while Buchner's 
theory attributes this production to the integral cells of the 
body, which furnish the alexins normally in minute quan- 
tities to the blood, and asserts that the latter are germicidal 
to the bacteria themselves ; and, on the other hand, the 
antitoxins, though produced like the alexins by body-cells, 



EHRLTCH'S LATERAL CHAIN THEORY. 63 

probably act chemically in neutralizing the bacterial poi- 
sons, and are dependent upon the prior presence in the 
body of the toxins, being a result of its acquired tolerance 
to the latter. With alexins or antitoxins it is evident 
that the immunity will last only so long as these sub- 
stances remain unchanged in the blood. 

However, there is no reason why the phagocytosis, hu- 
moral, antitoxin, and opsonin theories should not mutually 
support rather than tend to discredit one another. There 
seems to be good evidence of the phenomena upon which 
each of them is based, and even with our present incom- 
plete knowledge of the blood and its component parts, it 
is not difficult to conceive that while the alexins, and later 
the antitoxins and opsonins protect the leucocytes by weak- 
ening the vitality of the microbes and neutralizing their 
products, the leucocytes thus guarded and in full vigor 
attack and make way with the bacteria, which have lost 
their power for evil. In other words, if the production 
of the toxins of an infectious malady is not too rapid, 
all four of these agents may combine to overcome the 
enemy, and not only to limit the disease, but also to give 
subsequent immunity for a more or less prolonged period. 

Much consideration has lately been given to the so- 
called lateral chain theory of immunity suggested by 
Ehrlich in 1897, since it serves better than anything else 
to aid in the solution of many of the problems of this 
abstruse subject. It is primarily dependent upon the 
well-known fact that many poisons, including the bacterial 
and similar toxins, have a specific attraction toward and 
action upon certain cells of the body. Ehrlich assumes 
an extremely complicated cell protoplasm with many 
affinities for combination with external substances. These 
affinities may be hypothetically and graphically repre- 



64 BACTERIOLOGY. 

sented as slight protoplasmic protrusions on the contour 
of the cell-wall, and these affinities thus materialized he 
terms "lateral chains" or receptors. Now according 
to their particular and respective affinities the receptors 
attract to themselves the various molecular food particles 
that the cell needs, it being possible, however, for one 
receptor to have an affinity for several kinds of molecules. 
Such molecules capable of attraction and attachment to 
the receptors are termed "haptophores." Accordingly, 
haptophores of a poisonous nature that have either entered 
or been created in the body may become attached to cer- 
tain receptors of a given cell, and if of sufficient number 
and virulence may altogether check the nutrition of and 
destroy the cell ; but if not sufficient in number and 
toxicity, the harmful haptophores only stimulate the cell 
protoplasm to the formation of many new receptors of 
that particular kind in order that its nutrition may be main- 
tained ; and it is conceivable that through continued or re- 
peated irritation the cell may create many more receptors 
than it needs, which may subsequently be separated from it 
and thrown off into the surrounding fluids and spaces of 
the body as particular bits of a definite chemical sub- 
stance with its own specific affinities and properties. 
Eventually, then, there may be prepared enough specific 
and extra receptors, either attached to or dissociated from 
the cells, to attract and unite with all the toxic haptophores 
present, so that the cells are no longer unduly irritated, but 
perform their functions in a normal manner. So, also, 
cells primarily lacking the appropriate receptors are im- 
mune against the molecules of a given poison. 

Ehrlich's theory goes further, and, taking into consid- 
eration the know r n production in the animal body under 
stimulation by particular foreign and harmful cells, such 
as bacteria, of specific substances capable of dissolving and 



IMM UNO- THERAPY, 65 

destroying the invading cells, assumes the production of 
ambooeptors that will bring into contact and union the sol- 
vent or tysin and the particular cells which it is to destroy. 

Thus we can appreciate the identity of the receptors 
and antitoxins, and that the lysins just mentioned corre- 
spond to the alexins of Buchner. 

" Acquired immunity depends upon the regeneration of 
receptors to compensate for those thrown out of service by 
union with useless haptophores. The increasing immunity 
characterizing immunization depends upon the regenera- 
tion of an unlimited number of receptors, so that the cell 
can provide for the ever-increasing number of haptophores 
brought to it and still have enough receptors remaining 
to carry on its own nutrition." l 

McFarland has prepared the following scheme to show 
the present state of knowledge regarding immune-therapy, 
its purposes and possibilities. 2 

IMMUNO-THERAPY. 
I. Prophylaxis. 

1. IMMUNITY INDUCED BEFORE EXPOSURE TO INFECTION. 
A. Active Immunity. 

a. By inducing a mild attack ) , T ^ , , T . . 

of the disease by the use of IN CULA- f \ariola, yellow 
a carefully selected virus. 

b. By the employment of a 
much-modified virus. 



1 VACCINA- 


) 


< TION 


> Variola. 


( (Jenner). 


i 


VACCINATION 
(Microbination) 
(Pasteur). 


( Chicken cholera, 
] anthrax, quarter 
I evil, cholera, 
[ plague, typhoid. 



B. Passive Immunity. 
1. By injection of antitoxic j ANTITOX- f Diphtheria, teta- 

serum. J INATION. ( nus. 

2. IMMUNITY INDUCED AFTKR EXPOSURE TO INFECTION AND DURING 
THE INCUBATION PERIOD OF THE DISEASE. 
1. By the employment of 1 
comminuted tissue con- ,, 
taining the essential \ Rabies. 



cause of the disease in 



TION. 



an attenuated form. J 
i Medicine, June, 1903, p. 450. 
1 Modern Clinical Medicine, Wilson and Salinger, 1910, p. 918. 

D 



66 



II. Treatment. 
i. BY PBODUCIN& ACTITE IMMUNITY. 

A. By Aiding the Bacteria-destroying Mechanism. 



( Ache, furuncle", 
&, By employing killed or 1 carbuncle, chronic 

modified cultures to excite MICROBINA- suppuration, 
phagocytosis through in- f TION. \ ro * ic gonoiv 

crease of opsonins, etc. 



culosis. 
B. By Aiding the toxin-enduring Powers. 

b. By stimulating antibody ] ^ . , 

formation during the course > TWIW [ Tuberculosis, lepra. 

of a prolonged infection. J 

. BY PRODUCING PASSIVE IMMUNITY. 

A. By injecting antitoxic serums I . f Diphtheria teta- 

to neutralize toxins produced I ANTITOXI - J nus snake-bite, 
in the course of the infections. J NATION. 1 hay-fever, plague, 



B. By injecting antimicrobic se- 
rum to aid in the destruction 



tuberculosis, lepra. 
f Cerebro-spinal fe- 
ver, gonorrhosa, 
plague, dysen- 
tery, pneumonia, 



of the microbes through the !- \," ATTOV > erysipelas, scarlet 
action of the specific ambocep- fever, puerperal 

tors. J fever, typhoid, an- 

thrax, tuberculo- 
l sis. 

Method of Preparing Diphtheria Antitoxin. 
Within a comparatively short space of time the antitoxins 
have been discovered, tried, and practically adopted by 
the medical profession of the civilized world as a safe and 
efficient means for the prevention or the alleviation and 
cure of several of our most dreaded diseases. A short 
account of the usual method of preparing the antitoxin of 
diphtheria will, therefore, probably not be uninteresting. 

In the first place, it is necessary that the toxin of the 
disease should be produced, which is commonly done 
by growing the specific organism in peptone-bouillon. 
When this has attained a powerful and definite virulence, 
as determined by its effect on small animals of known 
weight, the organisms are destroyed by some germicide, 
such as trikresol, or more commonly are removed by 
careful filtration from the bouillon which holds the 



DIPHTHERIA ANTITOXIN. 



67 



toxin in solution. A small quantity, say 0.1 c.c. of the 
filtered bouillon is then injected into a large animal, 
such as the horse, which should be in good health, 
and preferably should have been tested previously by 



FIG. 10. 




Filter for removing bacteria from fluid culture-media. 

inoculations of tuberculin and mallein to eliminate the 
possibility of the presence of tuberculosis or glanders. 
The animal manifests for a few days the disturbances 
peculiar to the disease in question but usually in a minor 
degree, since the dose was purposely quite small in pro- 

FIQ. 11. 




Roux aseptic hypodermic syringe for administering antitoxin. 

portion to its weight ; as soon as recovery is evident 
another inoculation of an increased dose is made, and so 
on until experiment shows that the animal can withstand 



68 A CTERIOL OGY. 

practically an unlimited quantity of the toxic bouillon, and 
certainly an amount which would have been quickly fatal 
before the first inoculation. This is evidence that the anti- 
toxin has been produced and that it exists in approxi- 
mately sufficient degree in the blood-serum, but positive 
confirmation is secured by introducing a little of the 
horse's blood into a guinea-pig or other small animal that 
has received a fatal dose of the toxin bouillon. If it sur- 
vives, a quantity of blood is then drawn with the strictest 
antiseptic precautions into sterile flasks from the jugular 
or other large vein of the horse, the latter returned to 
its quarters, and the blood set aside in a cool place to 
coagulate. This done, the clear serum containing the anti- 
toxin is drawn off and to it is added a small quantity of 
trikresol or other harmless preservative. 

It is now necessary to determine the strength of the 
serum. The fatal dose of toxin for guinea-pigs is readily 
found by experiment. Behring therefore suggested in 
the case of diphtheria antitoxin that the immunizing unit 
be taken to be 1 c.c. of a serum of which 0.1 c.c. would 
prevent oedema and death in guinea-pigs when injected 
simultaneously with 10 times the fatal dose of the toxin. 
In other words, the immunizing unit was to be sufficient 
to overcome 100 times the amount of the toxin required 
to kill a guinea-pig. 

The antitoxin serums now administered are, however, 
much stronger than this normal serum of Behring's, 10 
c.c., the amount usually injected, being equivalent to 
from 600 to 2500 or even more immunizing units, the 
weaker strength being used for immunizing those who 
have not as yet incurred the disease. Much depends 
upon the early use of the specific antitoxin in cases of 
diphtheria, and probably also in the other diseases for 



VALUE OF ANTITOXIN TREATMENT. 69 

which this method of treatment will be found valuable. 
It is not to be supposed that the remedy has any power 
to repair the organic lesions which have been caused 
by the action of the powerful toxins. That the antitoxin 
treatment is invaluable cannot be doubted. The statistics 
of Prof. Welch, of Johns Hopkins Hospital, founded 
on a very large number of diphtheria cases, " show an 
apparent reduction of case-mortality of 55.8 per cent.," 
and where the application was made in the first three 
days of the disease the mortality was only 8.5 per cent. 
in over 1100 cases as against a mortality of 30 per cent, 
or higher under former methods of treatment. Another 
interesting report is that of the Chicago Department of 
Health for 1896. In that city in that year there were 
2436 cases of true diphtheria verified bacteriologically. 
The antitoxin was administered to 2302 of these, with a 
resultant mortality of only 6.56 per cent., or 151 deaths. 
Moreover, 2016 other persons exposed to the disease were 
inoculated with the antitoxin in order to immunize them, 
and of these, only 14 subsequently contracted the malady, 
and none died. Moreover, the average yearly death-rate 
from diphtheria and croup in Chicago for the pre-anti- 
toxin decade (1886-1895) was 14.02 per 100,000 of popu- 
lation, as against 4.18 in the antitoxin decade (1896-1905) 
and 2.17 for 1905. In other words, notwithstanding a 
great increase in population, the average yearly deaths 
from these diseases dropped from 1423 for the first decade 
to 693 for the second, and to 433 for 1905. Further 
comment seems unnecessary, but the statistics of the 
United States Census already quoted, showing a reduction 
of over two-thirds in the death-rate from this disease 
from 1890 to 1905 (from 70.1 to 19.9 per 100,000) in 
almost one-half the population of the whole country, is 



70 BACTERIOLOGY. 

even more striking, especially as the gain must be attrib- 
uted almost entirely to the adoption and use of the anti- 
toxin. The results have been so positive, the advance so 
progressive, and any changes in the previous methods of 
treatment of the disease so slight as to preclude the possi- 
bility of doubt as to the wisdom of employing it both as 
a remedy and as a prophylactic. 

The immunity secured by the use of an antitoxin is 
almost immediate, an advantage often of the greatest 
importance ; but since it is passive, the antitoxin having 
been developed outside of the person protected, it is more 
or less transient, and the inoculation must be repeated at 
intervals, or when danger of new infection is imminent. 
The same remarks apply to the use of antimicrobin, the 
product resulting from the gradual introduction of the 
bodies of the bacteria rather than their toxins into 
susceptible and suitable animals. This gives rather a 
bacteriolytic form of immunity, and thus far is not so 
satisfactory as that due to antitoxin. 

On the other hand, immunity that is acquired actively, 
either by accident or by deliberate experiment, is slower 
in developing, but much more likely to be permanent. It 
is a result, as we know, of most of the spontaneous infec- 
tious diseases, though its duration in some cases is briefer 
than we desire. It may also be secured by prophylactic 
infection or by prophylactic intoxication. In the former 
we may use virulent infective matter in much reduced 
doses or quantities, or better and more safely as far as 
man is concerned, some form of attenuated virus may be 
employed, the infecting matter having been modified by 
development in animals of another species, by heat, light, 
drying, electricity, growth in unfavorable media, etc. 
As an illustration, we have the modern vaccine virus 



PROPHYLACTIC INFECTION. 71 

derived from the cow which has entirely supplanted the 
former direct inoculation of matter from the human small- 
pox patient. As for prophylactic intoxication, we may 
use either the dead bodies of the infectious bacteria, as 
has been done by Haffkine in his work against plague and 
cholera, or the products of the organisms derived from 
artificial cultures, as indicated in describing the produc- 
tion of antitoxin. Various factors, some still unsettled, 
must determine the advisability of the use in a given case 
of one or another of the above methods ; but it must be 
remembered in regard to actively acquired immunity, that 
not only is it at times too slow in development to be of 
value after infection has occurred, but also that " the in- 
troduction of toxins or bacterial proteids after the onset 
of the disease may be not merely useless, but actually 
harmful by adding to the sum total of toxic material 
against which the tissues struggle." 

Nevertheless, experience will continue to show that 
whether one or all of these methods of securing immunity 
may be employed or whether others by which the body 
can protect itself may be discovered, sanitation and a con- 
dition of perfect health throughout the system are of the 
utmost importance in warding off attacks of or in securing 
immunity from any of the pathogenic organisms, and in 
withstanding their ravages should disease be incurred. 
A sound body therefore is a most vitally active and not 
simply a passive agent for the prevention of such diseases. 



CHAPTER III. 

THE ATMOSPHEKE AIR 

THE composition of the atmosphere surrounding the 
earth is remarkably uniform. It is practically always 
the same everywhere provided no obstacle be interposed 
to the action of those natural forces by which this uni- 
formity is maintained. This atmosphere is estimated to 
be about forty miles in depth, and its weight-pressure, 
of which we have a visible manifestation in the action of 
the barometer, upon the total surface of the adult human 
body is equivalent to that, of about fourteen tons. Any 
considerable variation in this pressure may give rise to 
disturbances of health -more or less serious, such as the 
cardiac derangements and "mountain sickness" experi- 
enced by strangers visiting high altitudes, or the " caisson 
disease " of those who work in a compressed atmosphere. 
In fact, it is not improbable that some of the vague dis- 
turbances of comfort to which a large class of persons are 
subject during changes of the weather will hereafter be 
found to be due to the variations in this pressure which 
are constantly occurring everywhere. 

The average composition of the air in its normal state 
is about as follows : oxygen, 20.96 per cent, by volume ; 
nitrogen and argon, 79 per cent. ; carbon dioxide, 0.04 
per cent. ; aqueous vapor, varying in amount with the tem- 
perature and other conditions ; a trace of ammonia, and a 
variable amount of ozone, organic matter, sodium salts, etc. 

72 



COMPOSITION OF AIR. 



73 



The variation in the percentage of oxygen may be from 
20.87 in towns to 20.98 in pure mountain air or far out at 
sea; in the percentage of carbon dioxide, from 0.02 to 
0.05. So far as we know at present, the nitrogen variation 



FIG. 12. 



M.M.Hg. 



135 



130 



125 



120 



115 



ALTITUDE. 
6000 FT. 14130 FT. 14130FT. 



PULSE 
RATE 



95 



90 



80 



PULSE RATE-- -- BLOOD PRESSURE- 

Average blood pressure and pulse rate of twenty-two young men. Adapted 
from papers of Prs. Gardner and Hoagland in the Transactions of the American 
Climatological Association, vol. xxi., 1905, p. 85. 

is almost infinitesimal. The air is a mechanical, not a 
chemical mixture, and there is always some change taking 
place in the proportions of the various constituents. 
However, the mixture is maintained in its wonderful uni- 



74 THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

formity by the interdependent action of plants and ani- 
mals, and by the diffusion of gases, the law of which is 
that " a gas expands into a space in which there is another 
gas as freely and as rapidly as if there were a vacuum." 
Though this agency, like the other, is continually operat- 
ing, its results are greatly facilitated by adventitious air- 
currents and by the application of heat. When a gas is 
thus diffused, it will not separate again from the others 
under ordinary circumstances. 

Oxygen is the most important of the above constituents. 
It supports all animal life ; oxidizes, destroys, and renders 
harmless organic impurities, and by oxygenating the blood 
and oxidizing the food for our tissues gives heat and 
energy, the vital source of all our thoughts and actions. 
The supply to the atmosphere is constantly maintained by 
the higher plant-life, which decomposes carbon dioxide 
and gives off oxygen to the air. In man the greatest 
limit of life without oxygen or air is about four minutes. 
A decrease in the proportion of oxygen in the air does 
not manifest itself by untoward symptoms in the human 
body until there is less than 13 percent, by volume ; then 
as it falls lower and lower* the respirations become slower, 
deeper, and more difficult, less oxygen is absorbed by the 
blood, and there follow dyspnoea, asphyxia, and death. 
This may occur within a short time when the percentage 
goes below 8 per cent., and fatal asphyxia supervenes very 
rapidly when there is as little as 3 per cent, of oxygen. 

The main function of the nitrogen of the atmosphere 
seems to be to act as a diluent and to prevent the too 
energetic action of the oxygen. We know now, however, 
that at least one family of plants the leguminosae is 
able, by the aid of certain bacteria, to take nitrogen almost 
directly from the air and to store it for animal use in the 



CARBON DIOXIDE IN AIR. 75 

form of proteids. The ammonia ever present in the air 
is also a source of nitrogen food for some plants. 

The gaseous element argon, discovered in 1894 by 
Lord Rayleigh and Prof. Kamsay, comprises about 1 per 
cent, of what has heretofore been considered atmospheric 
nitrogen. Thus far little is known concerning it except 
that its atomic weight is probably somewhat less than 40, 
its density about 20, and that it is very inert, though 
Berthelot has succeeded in making it combine with nas- 
cent vapors of benzene under the influence of an elec- 
trical discharge. That it is a constant component of the 
atmosphere for some definite purpose is more than prob- 
able, but what this purpose may be is as yet unknown. 

The carbon dioxide 1 present in the atmosphere is of no 
direct use to animals, but is essential to the support of 
vegetable life, furnishing part of the carbon necessary for 
the formation of the carbohydrates and proteids, which are, 
next to water, the main constituents of plants. The pro- 
portion of carbon dioxide in the out-door air varies some- 
what from time to time, owing to the changing conditions. 
It is washed out of the air by rain, and there is therefore less 
after a heavy storm ; plants absorb it by day, and some give 
off a slight quantity by night ; the strata of the atmosphere 
near the ground receive an excess of it from the soil-air; 
it is a constant product of combustion and of the decom- 
position of organic matter by saprophytic bacteria, etc. 
Though heavier than air, it is comparatively evenly 
distributed through the atmosphere by the force of diffu- 
sion. 

The normal proportion in the atmosphere varies from 
0.02 per cent, to 0.05 per cent., but we may take the 
average to be about 0.04 per cent. Should, however, any 

1 Carbon dioxide = carbonic acid gas = carbonic anhydride = COj. 
Carbon monoxide = carbonous oxide = CO. 



76 THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

important tests of the amount in-doors be required, the 
percentage in the out-door air at that particular time and 
place should also be determined for the sake of accuracy. 
Within the limits just given, the carbon dioxide cannot be 
considered as an impurity of the atmosphere, for it is ever 
present in the air, and is as necessary to plant-life as 
oxygen is to animals. It is derived from the combus- 
tion of carbonaceous materials, from the exhalations and 
excretions of animals and men, and, as was indicated, in 
large measure from the action of the saprophytic bacteria 
and also of the budding fungi upon organic matter. 
Moreover, any excess above the normal percentage as 
given is to be regarded not so much as an impurity as an 
indication that certain processes are at work, which by 
their other products may make the air impure and unsafe 
for human use. 

The amount of aqueous vapor in the atmosphere varies 
from time to time because the factors governing it con- 
densation and evaporation are continuously in action, 
these depending, of course, mainly upon the continual 
variations in temperature. There is probably never a 
perfectly dry air unless it is made so artificially, and 
precipitation occurs the moment complete saturation is 
reached. The range of relative humidity is probably 
from 30 to 100 per cent., this being equivalent, according 
to the temperature, to a water-content of from 1 to 12 or 
14 grains to the cubic foot of air. The most satisfactory 
proportion for health has not been experimentally deter- 
mined, but is generally considered to be from 65 to 75 
per cent, when the temperature is moderate. 1 

1 When the temperature is upward of 80 F. a humidity of but little 
over 70 per cent, may be very uncomfortable and depressing if the air is 
still and evaporation from the body surface thus impeded. A breeze 
makes even a higher humidity less noticeable. 



ATMOSPHERIC IMPURITIES. 77 

In the out-door air there is at least a trace of ammonia 
either free or combined, a small amount of the salts of 
sodium (especially near the sea) and of other metals, 
and a trace of organic matter. This last is part of the 
animal and vegetable debris of the earth ; when above 
a trace, it is to be treated as an impurity, as should any 
excess of ammonia. 

Minute particles of innumerable substances are being 
constantly thrown off into the atmosphere, and it is 
only the unceasing action of nature's purifying powers 
that keeps the proportion within the limits of safety to 
the human race. Solid particles, lifted up by the winds, 
fall to the earth again, or, if organic, are partially oxi- 
dized and decomposed by the oxygen and ozone. The 
gases are diluted and diffused so as to be no longer harm- 
ful, or are decomposed, or are washed back to the earth 
by rain or snow. The great volume of carbon dioxide is 
kept within bounds by the action of the vegetable world. 
The natural purifiers of the atmosphere, therefore, are 
the force of gravity, diffusion, dilution by the air itself, 
winds, oxidation, rain, and the action of plant-life ; 
and so exactly are these adjusted to their work that 
never, when they have fair opportunity to act, does the 
composition of the air vary much from the normal for 
any great length of time. 

The impurities in the atmosphere that are especially 
liable to have a deleterious influence upon health may be 
classed as follows : 1. Suspended matters. 2. Gaseous 
and semi-gaseous substances, including : 3. Those espe- 
cially due to respiratory, combustion, and decomposition 
processes, and which are particularly liable to contaminate 
the air of dwellings or inhabited apartments. 

The most important suspended matters are sand, dust, 



78 THE ATMOSPHERE Ain. 

soot, pollen of various plants, micro-organisms of all 
kinds, particles of epithelia and other excreta thrown 
off from animal bodies, and finely divided substances 
characteristic of certain trades or industries. These may 
do harm by clogging the air-vesicles of the lungs and 
thus obstructing respiration, though it is doubtful whether 
their action is ever only so mild or simple ; by their 
irritant action upon the respiratory passages ; 1 by being 
in themselves poisonous or hostile to the system, or, as in 
the case of micro-organisms, by the influence they have 
in the causation of disease. Disease germs may lodge in 
the respiratory passages and do harm, or may be swal- 
lowed and so cause maladies, such as typhoid fever or 
cholera, which primarily affect the digestive tract. 

It is, however, questionable whether pathogenic organ- 
isms, especially the bacteria, are commonly to be found 
dissociated from other substances floating in the air. Ex- 
periments by Cornet and others seem to show that such 
microbes are more apt to be adherent to dust particles, 
particularly those of organic nature, and it is probable 
that free bacteria in the out-door atmosphere could not 
long maintain their vitality deprived of nutriment and 
exposed to the action of light and oxygen. Besides, 
they are so quickly dispersed and reduced in numbers in 
any reasonable volume of unconfined air that the occa- 
sions must be rare indeed when they could thus cause 
disease. In-doors, especially where ventilation is neg- 
lected, the case is different, and there is no doubt that the 
air frequently becomes the carrier of dangerous pathogens. 

1 The pollen from certain varieties or species of plants is thought by 
many to have a specific influence in the causation of hay-fever and 
similar ills, and there seems to be no doubt that it is frequently an 
aggravating and predisposing factor in the development or course of such 
disturbances. 



IMPURITIES IN DWELLINGS. 79 

We must also make a distinction as to whether the 
other solid impurities are found in the out-door air or in 
enclosed spaces ; and if in the latter, whether in healthful 
dwellings, in sick-rooms and hospitals, or in workshops 
and factories. Out-of-doors, dust, sand, soot, pollen, waste 
dirt from dwellings, street refuse, and the remains of 
plant and animal life will predominate ; in-doors the par- 
ticles will be more limited in variety, but not in impor- 
tance. Among them will be epithelial and other cells, 
possibly pus-corpuscles, hair, bits of clothing, food, etc. 
One may also find arsenical or other poisonous dust 
from wall-paper or paint. In sick-rooms and hospitals 
there will probably be pus-cells, mycelia, bacteria, etc. 
Mills, factories, and mines have their special atmospheres 
laden with particles peculiar to the occupation, which in 
many cases have a marked influence for harm on the 
health of the workers. 

The gaseous and semi-gaseous impurities of most im- 
portance are those resulting from human respiration and 
cutaneous exhalations, products of combustion, peculiar 
gases in sewer-air or soil-air, organic emanations and 
vapors from decomposing animal and vegetable matter, 
and the volatile substances that characterize the various 
atmospheres in and about gas-works, factories, and other 
places of industry. Chemically, they may be classified 
as the compounds of carbon and of sulphur with oxygen 
and hydrogen, ammonia compounds, volatilized minerals 
and mineral acids, and many gaseous and semi-gaseous 
matters of organic nature but indeterminate composition. 

Inasmuch as certain of these impurities, viz., human 
exhalations, combustion-products, and not infrequently 
the so-called sewer-gas, are particularly liable to be found 
together as contaminants of the atmosphere of inhabited 



80 THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

rooms and dwellings, it will be advisable to consider them 
in a class by themselves, and to study their effect upon 
health both collectively and singly. 

The volatile excreta from the lungs and skin are carbon 
dioxide, aqueous vapor, and a considerable amount of 
nitrogenous organic matter, to which the term "crowd- 
poison " is sometimes given. As products of combustion 
from the ordinary lighting and heating apparatus of 
dwellings we may have carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, 
sulphur dioxide, ammonia (with possibly its sulphide), 
and aqueous vapor. Of sewer-gas and soil-air we shall 
speak later. 

Carbon dioxide, contrary to the general opinion, cannot 
be said to be directly harmful to health in the propor- 
tions in which it is likely to be found in any dwelling 
or inhabited apartment. Although present to the ex- 
tent of not more than 0.05 per cent, in normal out-door 
air, numerous experiments indicate that both men and 
animals may inhale much larger proportions than this 
without apparent harm provided the percentage of oxygen 
in the air be maintained at or above the normal ; an 
increase of the carbon dioxide from other sources than 
respiration and combustion seems to have no appreciable 
effect upon health until it amounts to at least 1 or 2 per 
cent., and some men work daily in atmospheres contain- 
ing almost this amount as a result of their peculiar occu- 
pations. Dyspnoaa does not begin to occur, and then 
only in some, until the percentage goes above 3 or 4. 
In quantities above these figures there is much difference 
of opinion as to the effect of the gas upon the human 
economy, and the writer is not aware that it has ever 
been determined just what percentage is fatal. Parkes 
states the lethal proportion to be from 5 to 10 per 



CARBON DIOXIDE IN DWELLINGS. 81 

cent.; while another authority states that animals may 
be kept for a long time in an atmosphere in which 
there is a high percentage of carbon dioxide provided 
the percentage of oxygen be increased at the same time. 
Hime says that " it may be assumed that 10 or 20 per 
per cent, is a dangerous amount " ; 1 but Wilson 2 shows 
that air having from 25 to 30 per cent, may be inhaled 
with impunity. It is to be understood that the above 
percentages are all by volume. 

According to his weight, an adult man at rest absorbs 
from 15 to 18 cubic feet of oxygen and exhales from 
12 to 14 cubic feet of carbon dioxide in twenty -four 
hours. Reichert 3 says : " The amount of O varies from 
600 to 1200 grammes (15 to 30 cubic feet) per diem, 
and that of CO 2 from 700 to 1400 grammes (12.5 to 25 
cubic feet) approximate averages being about 750 
grammes of O and 875 grammes of CO 2 ." According to 
Ott, 4 " The amount of water thrown off daily is about a 
pound ; of oxygen taken in, about a pound and one-half ; 
and of carbonic acid thrown off, a little more than a 
pound and one-half." The minimum excretion per hour 
may therefore fairly be taken to be about 0.7 cubic foot 
of carbon dioxide for adult men and 0.6 cubic foot for 
women or for each person of a mixed assemblage. Now, 
granting the presence of a single adult occupant, it is 
evident that it would require many hours before a room 
of, say, 1000 cubic feet capacity would lose sufficient 
oxygen or gain sufficient carbon dioxide to produce the 
slightest apparent harmful results, even though ingress of 
fresh air were prevented ; and yet experience tells us that 

1 Stevenson and Murphy, vol. i., p. 945. 

2 American Journal of Pharmacy, 1893, p. 561. 

3 American Text-book of Physiology, p. 536. 
* Text-book of Physiology, first ed., p. 270. 

6 






82 THE ATMOSPHERE A IE. 

the atmosphere of such a room will become exceedingly 
foul and actually detrimental to health long before the 
lapse of time necessary to exhale sufficient carbon dioxide 
to induce serious effects. Moreover, carbon dioxide is 
odorless, while the air of inhabited, uuventilated rooms is 
characterized by a decidedly offensive smell that remains 
for some time even after adequate ventilation has been 
secured and when chemical tests show the percentage 
of carbon dioxide to have been reduced to nearly the 
normal. " The chemical analyses of the air of over- 
crowded rooms, and the experiments upon animals made 
by many investigators, indicate that the evil effects ob- 
served are probably not due to the comparatively small 
proportions of carbonic acid usually found under such cir- 
cumstances. . . . The proportion of increase of CO 2 and 
of diminution of oxygen which has been found to exist in 
badly ventilated churches, schools, theatres, etc., is not 
sufficiently great to account satisfactorily for the great dis- 
comfort which such conditions produce in many persons, 
and there is no evidence that such an amount of change 
in the normal proportion of these gases has any influence 
upon the increase of disease and death-rates which statisti- 
cal evidence has shown to exist among persons living in 
crowded and unventilated rooms." 1 Therefore, it must 
be something other than carbon dioxide that danger- 
ously pollutes the air of dwellings and necessitates the 
provision of some system of ventilation. However, with 
our present knowledge we cannot say that a diminution 
of oxygen and an increase of carbon dioxide in the atmos- 
phere which one breathes habitually do not tend to lower 

1 " The Composition of Expired Air and its Effect upon Animal Life." 
Mitchell, Billings, and Bergey, No. 989, vol. xxix., Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions to Knowledge. 






EFFECT OF EXCESSIVE HUMIDITY. 83 

the general tone and perhaps the bactericidal powers of 
the body and thus to render it more susceptible to dele- 
terious influences, and, since there is some evidence that 
as the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere increases there is 
a lessening of the amount of this gas excreted from the 
body, it will on general principles always be wiser to use 
every reasonable means to maintain the normal propor- 
tion of the various gases in the atmosphere. Moreover, 
the fact that tuberculous patients usually improve if they 
live continuously out of doors would indicate that the full 
quota of oxygen in the air is essential to the best interests 
of health, and also that indoor air, though apparently but 
slightly impure, favors the development and progress of 
this disease. 

Aqueous vapor is another of the substances excreted 
continually from both the lungs and the skin ; but it is 
obvious that in itself it cannot be directly harmful to the 
system, for we find it ever present in all natural atmos- 
pheres, and are continually replacing by imbibition its loss 
from our bodies. The quantity daily thrown off from 
the lungs and skin will depend on the temperature and 
humidity of the atmosphere, the quantity of air inspired 
and water imbibed, and many other factors ; but under 
ordinary conditions the average excretion will be from 
100 to 1700 grammes (about 3.5 to 60 fluidounces), though 
increased exertion might cause even the latter amount to 
be greatly exceeded. It is accordingly possible that this 
large quantity of moisture, tending to saturate an atmos- 
phere already humid, might indirectly and reflexly check 
the excretion of waste matters by the sweat-glands by 
preventing evaporation from the skin, and that the reten- 
tion of these wastes in the system may help to produce 
the depression, headache, and other symptoms experi- 



84 THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

enced by those breathing foul air. It has been noticed 
that these symptoms due to foul air are more readily 
manifested when the temperature of the atmosphere is 
much below or much above the usual room-temperature 
of 65 to 70 F. At low temperatures the air is readily 
saturated, and beside, the excreting action of the skin 
is much lessened by the cold ; at high temperatures the 
humidity is often already near the saturation-point, while 
the external heat tends to increase the quantity of water 
given off by the lungs and skin. "At high tempera- 
tures the respiratory centres are affected where evapora- 
tion from the skin and mucous surfaces is checked by 
the air being saturated with moisture at low tempera- 
tures the consumption of oxygen increases and the demand 
for it becomes more urgent." l At 70 F. the aqueous ex- 
halation from an adult body would in an hour or less com- 
pletely saturate from 350 to 600 cubic feet of air having 
the not unusual relative humidity of 75 per cent., while 
at 80 F. an equal or even greater volume of air would 
doubtless gain its maximum of moisture from the increase 
of perspiration due to the extra heat. Moreover, as evapo- 
ration of the perspiration is one of the most important 
means for maintaining the balance between heat-production 
and heat-dissipation, interference with this process natur- 
ally tends to raise the body-temperature rapidly and 
to produce the consequent effects upon the nervous 
mechanism. 

Crowd-poison. The third contaminant given to air from 
human bodies is an indefinite volume of offensive organic 
matter, and for a time this has been looked upon as by 
far the most harmful part of animal exhalations. But 
recently experiments by various investigators have seemed 
to indicate that this organic effluvium is not so dangerous 
1 Mitchell, Billings, and Bergey, loc. cit. 



CROWD-POISON; COMBUSTION-PRODUCTS. 85 

as it has hitherto been considered, and that part at 
least of the symptoms due to air vitiated by respira- 
tion is to be attributed to the conditions already men- 
tioned, viz., a decrease of oxygen and an increase of 
carbon dioxide, heat, and moisture. It is also doubtful 
whether much, if any, of this organic matter comes from 
the lungs of healthy persons. 1 " In ordinary quiet respira- 
tion no bacteria, epithelial scales, or particles of dead 
tissue are contained in the expired air. . . . The cause of 
unpleasant, musty odors in rooms may in part be due to 
volatile products of decomposition from decayed teeth, 
foul mouths, or disorders of the digestive apparatus, and 
in part to volatile fatty acids given off with or produced 
from the excretions of the skin, and from clothing soiled 
with such excretions." 2 However, whatever may be the 
exact source of this contamination, we know this concern- 
ing it that it is decidedly offensive to the sense of smell, 
that it is organic and nitrogenous, yielding ammonia, dark- 
ening sulphuric acid, decolorizing potassium permanganate, 
and rendering obnoxious pure water through which the 
vitiated air has been drawn. Moreover, it must in fair- 
ness be stated that in spite of the later experiments it has 
seemed to such careful investigators as Brown-Sequard, 
d'Arsonval, Merkel, and others to be directly poisonous to 
lower animals. In general, it is given off proportionately 
with the carbon dioxide from the body, though this rule is 
not infallible ; it is apt to be unevenly distributed through- 
out the atmosphere of the apartment, and is probably 
therefore not truly gaseous, but more like an impalpable 

1 " Fliigge and others have found that the evil of close atmospheres is 
largely a result of elevated temperature, humidity, and absence of air 
currents. Tests were made on men who sat in impure air, but breathed 
pure air through tubes, and they presented all the symptoms usually re- 
sulting from bad ventilation." Report on Human Vitality, Fisher, p. 85. 

' Mitchell, Billings, and Bergey, loc. eit, 



86 THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

dust; it oxidizes but slowly, being evident for some time 
after fresh air has been admitted and the carbon dioxide 
has been reduced almost to the normal, and, while neither 
condensed nor dissolved in the aqueous vapor from the 
body, it is especially attracted and retained by hygroscopic 
substances such as wool, paper, feathers, etc. Its smell 
is generally perceptible when the respiratory carbon dioxide 
reaches 0.03 or 0.04 per cent., sometimes before this point 
is reached, especially in sick-rooms or hospital wards, and 
is decidedly offensive when the total carbon dioxide ap- 
proaches 0.1 per cent. 

The most important of the impurities resulting from 
the combustion of coal, the principal fuel substance used 
in towns and cities, are soot and tarry matters (to the ex- 
tent of about 1 per cent, of the coal consumed), carbon 
monoxide and dioxide, aqueous vapor, and more or less 
ammonium sulphide, carbon disulphide, hydrogen sul- 
phide, sulphur, sulphur dioxide, and sulphuric acid. The 
relative amounts of the oxides of carbon as well as 
of the other gases will depend upon the perfection of 
combustion ; " but it has been calculated that for every 
ton of coal burnt in London something like three tons of 
carbon dioxide are produced," and as the coal consump- 
tion of that city is over 30,000 tons per diem, we can 
readily see that its atmosphere must receive the enormous 
daily contamination of about 300 tons of soot and 90,000 
tons of carbonic acid. No wonder they have an occa- 
sional fog there ! 

The combustion-products of wood are in the main 
carbon monoxide and dioxide, and water, while those 
of coke and of gas are practically the same as those of 
coal. From the heating apparatus, if properly con- 
structed and arranged, these products pass almost directly 
to the exterior of dwellings and are rapidly dissipated 



APPARATUS FOR LIGHTING. 87 

in spite of their excessive volume, for " diffusion and the 
ever-moving air rapidly purify the atmosphere from carbon 
dioxide," and in fact from the other combustion-products 
also, with the exception of the soot and tarry products. 

Should, however, combustion be incomplete, or should 
the stoves or other heating apparatus be imperfect, the 
gases may seriously or even dangerously contaminate the 
house-air, the deadly carbon monoxide being particularly 
liable to leak not only through the crevices, but actually 
through the heated cast-iron plates, etc., of stoves and 
furnaces. Theoretically, a pound of coal requires 160 
cubic feet of air for its perfect combustion, but actually 
from one-half to as much more must be supplied to the 
ordinary heating apparatus to secure complete oxidation 
of the fuel. 

Practically all the devices for artificial illumination, 
with the exception of the incandescent electric light, give 
off directly to the surrounding air combustion-products 
which are much the same as those from coal, and 
this contamination is consequently a positive factor in 
the vitiation of in-door air. " Every cubic foot of 
coal-gas yields, on combustion, roughly, half its own 
volume, or 0.52 cubic foot, of carbon dioxide, and 1.34 
cubic foot of water vapor," besides some little carbon 
monoxide when ordinary burners are used. " Speaking 
generally, it may be said that each cubic foot of gas burnt 
per hour from the ordinary burners vitiates as much air 
as would be rendered impure by the respiration of an in- 
dividual ; it at the same time will raise the temperature 
of 31,290 cubic feet of air 1 degree F., and yields 217 
calories (a kilogramme of water heated 1 degree C.) or 860 
British heat-units (a pound of water heated 1 degree F.)." 1 

1 Notter and Firth, Treatise on Hygiene, p. 140. 



88 



THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 



But inasmuch as the products of combustion are super- 
heated, they rise at once to the top of the room and, for 
the most part, quickly escape to the outer air through the 
combined influence of negative gravity and diffusion ; so 
that comparatively little air is needed to dilute the small 
proportion of such products that eventually cool and fall 
to the breathing-level. 

The following table l shows the influence of various 
lighting agents with respect to the condition of the room- 



air : 











a 
o 




00 






Quantity 
consumed 


Candle- 
power. 


Oxygen 

removed. 


Carbon diox 
produced. 


Moisture 
produced. 


Heat calorie 
produced. 




IS* 

HI 

> 




2200 grains 
1740 " 
992 " 
909 " 

5.5 cu. ft. 
4.8 " 


16 
16 
16 
10 

16 

1C 


Cu. ft. 
10.7 

9.6 
G.2 
5.9 

6.5 

5.8 


Cu. ft. 

7.3 

6.5 
45 
4.1 

2.8 
2.6 


Cu. ft. 

8.2 

6.5 
3.5 
3.3 

7.3 
6.4 


1400 
1137 
1030 
1030 

1194 
1240 


12.0 
11.0 
7.5 
7.0 

5.0 
4.3 


Sperm candles 






Coal-gas, No. 5 batwing 


Coal-gas, Argand burner . . . 


Coal-gas, regeneration (Sie- 


3.2 " 

3.5 " 
0.3 Ib. coal 


32 

50 
16 


3.6 

4.1 
0.0 


1.7 

1.8 
0.0 


4.2 

4.7 
0.0 


760 

763 
37 


2.8 

3.0 
0.0 


Coal-gaa (Welsbach incandes- 


Elcctric incandescent light . . 



From this table it will be learned that the incandes- 
cent electric light is the most satisfactory from a hygienic 
point of view, and there is no doubt that its very general 
introduction has done much toward obviating a constant 

1 Notter and Firth, Treatise on Hygiene, p. 141. 



APPARATUS FOR LIGHTING. 89 

source of vitiation, especially in rooms which require 
much artificial light, and are at the same time diffi- 
cult to ventilate. -It is said that in a bank in London, 
in which several hundred persons are employed, the 
absences on account of illness have been so far reduced, 
apparently by the introduction of the incandescent electric 
light alone, that the extra labor gained has more than 
compensated for the increased cost of lighting. The 
electric arc light is said to form nitric acid ; but even 
so, its effects are not so harmful as are those of the prod- 
ucts of combustion of the ordinary candle, lamp, or 
gas-jet. 

Next to the incandescent electric light in importance 
are the Welsbach and Siemens gas-lights ; but of these the 
latter has not the illuminating power, nor is it so well 
adapted to house use as is the former. The Welsbach 
light makes use of the Bunsen flame (in which, by the 
way, the carbon of the gaseous fuel is completely consumed 
and converted into carbon dioxide) to render incandescent 
a non-combustible mantle or network, composed of vege- 
table fibre saturated with the oxides of certain metals 
which have the property of becoming intensely luminous 
when sufficiently heated. It gives a white light of great 
illuminating and considerable actinic power, and of prac- 
tically unvarying intensity. In fact, this quality of 
steadiness, in which it surpasses even the incandescent 
electric light, is by no means the least of its hygienic 
advantages, since such steadiness is an important factor 
in the conservation of the eyesight. 

Recently hydrocarbon (gasoline) lamps, making use of 
an incandescent mantle similar to the Welsbuch, have 
been placed on the market, and are said to be safe and free 
from odor or danger of explosion, If these claims can be, 



90 



THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 



sustained, such lamps are of value, since they furnish a 
powerful and steady incandescent light at very low cost. 

A comparatively new illuminant, not mentioned in the 
foregoing table, is acetylene gas. This gives a very white 
and powerfully actinic light, and, on account of ease of 

FIG. 13. 



Chimney. 



Shade Support. 



Mantle. 
Mantle Support. 




.Chimney Support. 
Gauze Tip. 

Gas Spreader. 
Corrugated Cap. 

\Iantle Carrier. 

'entre Tube. 
Bobesche Support. 
Gallery. 
Bunsen Tube. 

Air Shutter. 



.Adjustable Check. 

Welsbach light. 

i 

production and the small amount needed for ordinary 
lighting, is cheap and does not greatly vitiate the atmos- 
phere. But a mixture of the unburned acetylene with air 
in proportions of from 4 to 25 per cent, is highly explosive, 
and consequently the gas is not yet much used for interior 
lighting. 



SEWER-GAS AND SOIL-AIR. 91 

Sewer-gas and Soil-air. What is commonly called 
sewer-gas is a mixture of a number of gases, such as car- 
bon dioxide, carburetted hydrogen, ammonium and hydro- 
gen sulphide, nitrogen, etc., together with a considerable 
amount of fetid organic matters, the volatile or semi- 
volatile products of animal and vegetable decomposition, 
all varying according to the condition of the sewer, the 
kind of matter received therein, the amount of surface- 
water, etc. The air from a closed cesspool may be ex- 
tremely foul and poisonous, so much so that the emana- 
tions have not infrequently caused death in those who 
inhaled them in full concentration ; on the other hand, the 
atmosphere of a properly constructed and well-flushed 
sewer may be almost as pure as that above the surface of 
the ground. Bacteria are present in varying numbers, 
with the possibility of some of them being the germs of 
specific diseases. But fresh sewage is not so likely to 
contaminate the air above it with microbes as that in 
which decomposition has begun, since Frankland has 
shown that solid or liquid particles are not liable to be 
scattered into the air by any disturbance to which the 
sewage may be subjected until gases of decomposition 
are produced. According to some writers, the bursting 
of bubbles of gas on the surface may discharge the bac- 
teria into the sewer-air. It has also been shown that 
" bacteria can undoubtedly grow up the sides or walls of 
damp, nutrient sewers, and if these latter become at all 
dry, air currents readily detach and disperse them." It 
is, however, questionable whether many disease germs can 
withstand the natural antagonism of the saprophytic bac- 
teria that predominate in sewage and on sewer walls. 

Another class of impurities that may at times be found 
in the air of dwellings comprises those coming from the 



92 



THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 



soil and soil-air. The soil, in hygiene, refers to all that 
portion of the earth's crust that can in any way affect the 
health. All soils contain more or less air soft sandstones 
from 20 to 40 per cent., loose sand from 40 to 50 per 
cent., and loose soils often very much more. 

FIG. 14. 



f.ff. \- -"-" *>***Q'' Y1 .'" i -'. n ' 



fe%^:;V^2^.,V"" : - : :^-* : --T %s 

-.- v - '-i''' f 0<I =<i s '" "^ " O - ^~* 




Apparatus for determination of CO 2 in soil air. (HARRINGTON.) 

As the soil is the recipient of most of the solid and 
liquid waste of all animal and vegetable life, and as the 
myriads of saprophytic bacteria that inhabit its upper 
strata are constantly working to convert this dead organic 



COMPOSITION OF SOIL-AIR. 93 

matter into simpler compounds suited to the nourishment 
of plant-life, the soil-air, taking the atmosphere above as 
a standard, will usually be far from pure. 1 It is rich in 
carbon dioxide and in organic vapors and gases, while the 
proportion of oxygen is probably always less than that of 
the air above ground. Moreover, the carbon dioxide in- 
creases and the oxygen decreases the deeper below the 
surface the sample is taken. As much of the carbon di- 
oxide is evidently derived from organic pollutions, it might 
be supposed that this gas could be taken as an index of 
the degree of the latter, and so it might if other conditions, 
such as permeability of soil, rate of circulation, etc., were 
always the same. But they are not, and the composition 
of the soil-air is practically not the same at any two places, 
nor for the same place at different times. The under- 
ground air is constantly in circulation, even to a consider- 
able depth ; but there is a hindrance to its free movement 
and diffusibility, and this, together with the great variation 
in the distribution of oxidizable and other contaminating 
matters, causes the variations in its composition. The 
carbon dioxide, therefore, cannot be taken as an index 
of the relative purity. 

The forces that maintain the circulation of the ground- 
air are the wind, the daily change of surface temperature, 
the fall of rain, and especially in winter the local and arti- 
ficial conditions of civilization. A very slight wind will 
drive air through the soil for long distances, the rise and 
fall of the ground-water has its obvious effect, and the 
movement due even to slight changes of temperature is 
likely to be quite extensive and positive. 

1 Too much importance cannot be attributed to this saprophytic action 
in the upper soil, for it is one of nature's wonderful methods of securing 
and conserving not only the purity of our environment, but also the 
perpetuation of organic life. 



94 QBE ATMOSPHERE AtR. 

Owing to evaporation from the ground- water, the soil- 
air is always quite humid, and, according to some writers, 
may also be laden with bacteria and other very light 
substances lifted up by the ascensional power of evapo- 
ration. 

As sewage, house-wastes, and dirt of all kinds are par- 
ticularly liable to contaminate the soil about any inhabited 
dwelling, the air of that soil will more than likely be 
very impure, and care must be taken that it is not drawn 
into the house. This is especially apt to happen in cold 
weather, when house-fires are lighted and the in-door air 
is thus made warmer than that without, the tendency then 
being for the soil-air to pass, if possible, through the cellar 
walls and floors. These should be made as nearly air-tight 
as possible, and special attention should be given to the 
space underneath and about the furnaces or basement 
heating apparatus. As an instance of the importance of 
these precautions, Hime l gives an account of the death 
of four persons. Enough illuminating- (coal-) gas was 
drawn from a broken pipe fifteen feet distant from the 
foundation walls of the dwelling to cause the fatality, al- 
though there were only eight or ten inches of tramped 
earth above the pipe and the only aspirating force was the 
difference of temperature within and without the house. 
A number of explosions have occurred due to a similar 
leakage of gas from street mains through basement walls 
or into drains and sewers, since the admixture of illumi- 
nating-gas with air forms a most powerful and dangerous 
explosive. 

There is no direct evidence that the emanations from 
bone-yards, soap-factories, garbage-incinerators, etc., are 
actually harmful to health ; but they may be very decided 

1 Stevenson and Murphy, Treatise on Hygiene, vol. i., p. 949. 



DISEASES DUE TO IMPURE AIR. 95 

nuisances to those living near by, and all such places 
should be strictly controlled by the proper sanitary 
authorities. 

The atmosphere of mines and other excavations is sub- 
ject to contamination by the excess of carbon dioxide in 
the soil-air, by gases from blasting agents and from fis- 
sures in rock, and by the products of respiration from 
men and animals working in the mines, etc. The air in 
the holds of ships is also likely to be foul owing to the 
difficulty of changing it sufficiently often, and frequently 
also to the insanitary character of cargoes. In such situa- 
tions proper ventilation should be secured by all means 
available, and special care taken that the impure air does 
not affect the laborers in the one case or the passengers 
and crew in the other. 

Diseases Caused by Impure Air. As a rule, the 
human system has the power of accommodating itself, 
through habit, to withstand influences which, in one 
unaccustomed to them, would soon produce serious re- 
sults. But in spite of this, if the body be exposed for 
any considerable length of time to conditions of impurity 
or deterioration in its supply of air, water, or food, such 
conditions will always tend to undermine health and 
increase the susceptibility to disease, even though they 
cause no more serious results. " Statistical inquiries on 
mortality prove beyond a doubt that of the causes of 
death which are usually in action, impurity of the air is 
most important. No one who has paid any attention to 
the condition of health and the recovery from disease of 
those persons who fall under his observation, can doubt 
that impurity of the air marvellously affects the first, and 
influences and sometimes even regulates the second. 
. . . The air may affect health by variations in the 



96 THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

amount or conditions of its normal constituents, by dif- 
ferences in physical properties, or by the presence of 
impurities. While the immense effect of impure air can- 
not be for a moment doubted, it is not always easy to 
assign to each impurity its definite action. The evidences 
of injury to health from impure air are found in a larger 
proportion of ill health i. e., of days lost from sickness 
in the year than under other circumstances ; an increase 
in the severity of many diseases, which, though not 
caused, are influenced by impure air, and a higher rate 
of mortality, especially among children, whose delicate 
frames always give us the best test of food and air." l 

The definite diseases caused by the solid impurities 
in the atmosphere are almost all such as affect the 
respiratory passages and organs, with the possible excep- 
tion of those engendered by specific bacteria and other 
microbes. Much therefore depends upon the physical 
character of the solid impurities. Soft particles and those 
with edges smooth and rounded, like soot and coal-dust, 
may apparently do nothing more than coat or clog the 
air-vesicles and finer bronchial tubes, and in this way di- 
minish the area of lung tissue exposed to the inspired air, 
although it is questionable whether any foreign matter in 
the lungs does not cause more or less irritation. With 
most of us, however, such impurities are of little account if 
care be taken to develop the full respiratory capacity of the 
chest; but where the air is heavily charged with such dust 
it has a positive effect upon health and duration of life. 
In 1862 Sir John Simon stated that with one exception 
" the 300,000 (coal) miners of England and Wales break 
down as a class prematurely from bronchitis and pneu- 
monia, caused by the atmosphere in which they live. The 

1 Stevenson aud Murphy, vol. i., pp. 121 and 122. 



EFFECT OF DUSTS IN AIR. 97 

exception is important. The colliers of Durham and 
Northumberland, where the mines are well ventilated, do 
not appear to suffer from an excess of pulmonary diseases, 
or do so in a slight degree only." Happily, since this was 
written satisfactory ventilation systems have been placed in 
most of the collieries of England, and the condition of the 
laborers correspondingly improved ; but coal-miners are 
still, as a class, particularly liable to bronchitis, pneu- 
monia, asthma, emphysema, and fibrosis (fibroid phthisis), 
though they seem to be but slightly subject to primary 
tuberculosis of the lungs or other organs. 

On the other hand, if the particles of dust in the air 
are hard, angular, and sharp, the lung tissues are readily 
lacerated, inflammatory processes are quickly set up, and 
the opportunity for the inoculation of tubercle bacilli and 
other disease germs is very great. The mortality from 
tubercular phthisis among metal-miners, needle-cutters, 
steel-grinders and tool-grinders, cotton-spinners, etc., is 
remarkable, and they are also especially subject to asthma 
and emphysema. Among Cornish tin-miners, 68 per cent, 
of all sick are consumptive ; of needle-makers, over 60 
per cent.; of flint-cutters, glass-cutters and -polishers, and 
of grindstone-makers, from 80 to 90 per cent., etc. It 
is said that a mixture of mineral and metallic dust seems 
to be more harmful than metallic dust alone, perhaps 
because of the greater clogging of the air-vesicles by the 
mineral matter. 

Likewise, with other occupations where there is much 
irritative dust floating in the air, the effect upon the 
health of the worker is marked, and we find lung troubles 
prevalent and many suffering and dying from phthisis, 
as, for instance, among cotton-spinners, flax-dressers, 
hemp-dressers, pottery- makers, etc. Defective ventila- 
7 



98 ' THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

tion, accumulations of noxious gases, improper habits, 
insufficient disinfection of sputa, and often the excessive 
humidity of the air necessary in some of these pursuits, 
have doubtless something to do with the high sick-rates 
and death-rates j but withal, the marked effect of the solid 
atmospheric impurities cannot be denied. 

Again, workers in poisonous metals, compounds, or 
gases, such as paint-makers and painters, type-setters, 
gilders (using mercury), brass-founders, coppersmiths, 
etc., are subject to the influence of the respective poisons 
and the symptoms produced by them, with a correspond- 
ingly increased mortality. 

Among the diseases that may be caused by the inhala- 
tion or swallowing of specific micro-organisms floating in 
the atmosphere are erysipelas, measles, scarlet fever, diph- 
theria, whooping-cough, infectious pneumonia, phthisis and 
other forms of tuberculosis, and very probably epidemic 
influenza ; and although the germs of cholera and typhoid 
fever are usually carried by the drinking-water or food, 
they doubtless do sometimes find their way into the sys- 
tem from a contaminated atmosphere. 1 

Lastly, the spores of certain fungi which have been 
found in the air of hospitals and elsewhere are known to 
cause skin diseases, such as the tineas and fav.us in men ; 
and it is almost as certain that the irritating or poisonous 
pollen of certain grasses and other plants have much to 
do with the causation or aggravation of such maladies as 
hay-fever or rose-cold. 

From what has been said, it will be surmised that it 
is scarcely possible at present to specify the exact effect 

1 The report of the commission appointed to inquire into the preva- 
lence and causes of typhoid fever in the late Spanish- American War shows 
that in some cases infection was probably due to the dust in the atmos- 
phere which had been raised by many passing feet from the roads over 
which leaking sewage wagons had been hauled. 



EFFECTS OF HUMAN EXHALATIONS. 99 

upon the health of each of the impurities given to the 
air by the human body, and that the symptoms observed 
to be due to air thus vitiated are very probably an evi- 
dence and result of the combined action of these factors 
rather than of any one of them singly. However, the 
writer feels that the oppression so commonly experienced 
in an unventilated room is often fairly attributable to the 
increase in the temperature and humidity ; that the head- 
ache, disturbed nutrition, and febrile condition, lasting 
for hours and sometimes days after exposure to air thus 
vitiated, are either effects of the organic matter acting as 
a poisonous waste when taken back again into the system, 
or results of the suppression of cutaneous excretion de- 
pendent upon the high content of moisture in the air; 
and that the respiratory carbon dioxide by itself can but 
rarely have much influence upon comfort or health. 

If the respiratory and cutaneous vitiation be sufficient 
to produce acute effects, the immediate symptoms will be 
discomfort and a sense of oppression, followed by head- 
ache and not rarely nausea and a rather decided rise of 
temperature, all of which may last for some time even 
after the individual goes into perfectly pure air. Those 
who habitually live in such an atmosphere are almost uni- 
formly languid, pallid, and anaemic, subject to headaches, 
nausea, and loss of appetite, and often to skin disorders, 
and are undoubtedly markedly predisposed to phthisis, 
pneumonia, bronchitis, scrofula, rhachitis, etc. Moreover, 
such an atmosphere apparently favors the rapid spread, 
increases the severity of and retards the convalescence 
from such diseases as diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, 
typhus, smallpox, etc. This may be due either to the 
accumulation or to the actual multiplication by growth 
of the disease germs in the foul air, or to the vitiated 



100 THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

atmosphere causing a decrease of bodily resistance and an 
increase in predisposition to such maladies. 

When the proportion of impurities is very great, the 
results may be serious and even fatal, as in the well- 
known cases of the " Black Hole of Calcutta " ; of the 
prison in which 300 captives of war were crowded after 
the battle of Austerlitz (260 dying very soon after being 
placed therein) ; and of the steamer " Londonderry," in 
which, of 200 steerage passengers who were temporarily 
crowded into a cabin (18X11X7 feet) during a storm of 
only a few hours' duration, 72 were dead and others dying 
when the cabin was opened : but in these instances the 
lack of oxygen may have also been a very important factor 
in the results. 

As regards the influence of combustion-products on 
health, it will suffice to detail the symptoms resulting 
from inhalation of the various gases. It will be difficult 
to show that these gases, together with the coincident soot, 
have any general eifect upon health when escaping into the 
out-door atmosphere, even when produced in such enor- 
mous quantities in cities as has been already indicated. 
It is possible that the sulphur dioxide and other sulphur 
gases might predispose to or aggravate attacks of bron- 
chitis or asthma in those living in the vicinity of gas- 
works, chemical factories, etc., but too little comes from 
the chimneys of dwelling-houses to do much, if any, harm. 

In-doors the case is different, for the gases from lights 
and fires become more and more concentrated as the ven- 
tilation is insufficient. The possible effects of varying 
percentages of carbon dioxide have been noted. We have 
no evidence of cases of chronic poisoning by this gas, 
although, as Parkes says : " The presence of a very large 
amount of CO 2 in the air may lessen its elimination from 




INFLUENCE OF COMBUSTION-PRODUCTS. 101 

the lungs, and thus retain the gas in the blood, and thus in 
time possibly produce serious alterations in nutrition." 

In cases of acute poisoning by this gas i. e,, where it 
is in great excess in the atmosphere there is an almost 
immediate loss of muscular power, and the person may 
consequently be unable to remove himself from the place 
of danger, while others who go to help him may also suc- 
cumb and more than one be asphyxiated. Accordingly, 
volunteer rescuers should always remember to act with 
coolness and great rapidity, and to provide means for the 
prompt removal not only of the ones they would save, but 
of themselves as well. Fortunately, when one who has 
been overcome by carbon dioxide is brought into an atmos- 
phere of pure air before life is extinct and is aided by 
artificial respiration, he usually recovers quickly and com- 
pletely because of the rapid escape of the excess of the 
gas from the blood and its replacement by the necessary 
oxygen. Death from carbon dioxide poisoning is prob- 
ably mainly due to asphyxia, partly from lack of oxygen 
and partly from paralysis of the respiratory muscles, al- 
though the latter, as well as the general motor palsy, 
would seem to indicate that the gas itself had also a posi- 
tive physiologic and toxic effect upon the nerve-centres. 

Cases of poisoning by carbon monoxide are much more 
serious. Recovery from its effects is slow and uncertain, 
because this gas unites with the haemoglobin of the red 
blood-corpuscles, paralyzing them as it were, and render- 
ing them unable longer to act as oxygen-carriers to the 
tissues ; while the union of carbon dioxide with the blood 
is always a much more unstable one and readily dissolved 
as soon as interchange with a normal atmosphere is avail- 
able. Less than 0.5 per cent, of carbon monoxide in the air 
has caused symptoms of poisoning, and more than 2 or 3 per 



102 THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

cent, is fatal to animals. " It appears that the gas, volume 
for volume, completely replaces the oxygen in the blood, 
and cannot again be displaced by oxygen, so that the per- 
son dies asphyxiated; but Pokrowsky has shown that it 
may be gradually converted into carbon dioxide and be 
got rid of," if life be maintained sufficiently long. 

The symptoms of carbonous oxide (monoxide) poisoning 
are feebleness, oppressed breathing, trembling, and ina- 
bility to swallow ; then " loss of consciousness, destruction 
of reflex action, and finally paralysis of the heart." " Hirt 
says that at high temperatures (25 to 32 C. = 77 to 
90 F.) it produces convulsions, but not at low tempera- 
tures (8 to 12 C. = 46 to 54 F.)." The blood and 
muscles are made a brilliant red by this gas ; darkened by 
carbon dioxide. Claude Bernard says that a mixture of 
these gases is more destructive than either separately, 
probably because the excess of the acid gas interferes 
with conversion of the monoxide to the dioxide in the 
blood, as was shown by Pokrowsky. 

Illuminating- or coal-gas composed of hydrogen, light 
and heavy carburetted hydrogens, a little nitrogen, and 
carbon dioxide, and from 5 to 7 per cent., or even more, 
of carbon monoxide rapidly causes, when inhaled, giddi- 
ness, headache, nausea and vomiting (occasionally), confu- 
sion of intellect, loss of consciousness, general weakness 
and depression, partial paralysis, convulsions, and the usual 
symptoms of asphyxia. Mixed in large proportions with 
the air, death may ensue comparatively quickly, probably 
because of the large content of carbon monoxide. It is 
well to remember that the so-called water-gas, now so 
extensively manufactured for fuel purposes and also for 
diluting coal-gas, contains a much larger percentage of 
carbon monoxide (sometimes from 30 to 40 per cent.) 



EFFECTS OF ILLUMINATING GAS. 103 

than coal-gas, and that the effects resulting from inhala- 
tion of a mixture of the two will in all likelihood be 
more marked, more rapid, and more deadly than with 
undiluted coal-gas. Much harm may likewise occur 
when even small quantities of this mixed gas are breathed 
from day to* day, and there can scarcely be a doubt that 
the cause of many of the troublesome anaemias might be 
traced to unnoticed or uncared-for leaks in the gas-pipes 
of dwellings. 

" The effects of constantly inhaling the products of gas 
combustion may be seen in the case of workmen whose 
shops are dark and who are compelled to burn gas during 
a large part of the day ; the pallor, or even anasmia and 
general want of tone, which such men show, are owing 
to the constant inhalation of an atmosphere so impure." 

Sulphurous acid gas (SO 2 ) and hydrogen sulphide (H 2 S) 
are each fatal to life, the latter when in a compara- 
tively concentrated state ; but they are offensive to the 
senses and thus give warning of their presence, so that 
there is less danger of their causing serious results. Men 
can accustom themselves to much larger proportions of 
hydrogen sulphide in the atmosphere than can animals, 
but continued exposure to it is liable to give rise to ver- 
tigo, headache, slow and weak pulse, sweating, and loss 
of strength. 

When sewer-gas or soil-air escapes into the outer air 
they are usually soon diluted beyond power for harm ; 
but if either gains access to closed rooms or unventilated 
dwellings, its effects upon the inmates are depressing and 
decidedly harmful. In either case, concentration of the 
impurities may cause acute symptoms, such as vomiting, 
purging, severe headache and prostration ; and either 
soil-air or sewer-gas may possibly at times carry the germs 
of infectious diseases. Their influence, however, is usually 



104 THE ATMOSPHERE AIR. 

insidious, owing to dilution with the house-air ; and the 
more common symptoms will probably be pallor, languor, 
frequent headache, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, impaired 
health, and often chronic anaemia. Children especially 
suffer in nutrition, and with them febrile attacks may be 
frequent ; but with all, the power of resisting such dis- 
eases as typhoid fever, diphtheria, etc., is lessened and the 
susceptibility to them is increased, the sickness more severe, 
and the convalescence more prolonged. Indeed, sewer-gas 
and soil-air probably aggravate all diseases. 

In this connection Alessi has shown that when small 
animals, such as rabbits, rats, and guinea-pigs, have been 
exposed to sewer-air for some days, by far the larger 
majority when inoculated with only a small quantity of 
a slightly virulent typhoid culture contract the disease and 
die, while almost none succumb of those treated similarly 
in every way excepting by the exposure to sewer-air. He 
also showed that the inoculations were more deadly when 
the previous exposure to the noxious gas had been less 
than two weeks than when it exceeded that period, indi- 
cating that animals, as well as persons accustomed to such 
contamination, are not apt to manifest the symptoms due to 
it so rapidly or so seriously as are those who experience it 
for the first time a fact well known to all observers. It 
is only fair to say that these experiments of Alessi have 
apparently been controverted by other observers ; but, 
whichever may be correct, the truth of the following 
quotation doubtless still holds good : 

" There is undoubtedly a poisonous agency at work 
when sewer-gas is inhaled, which, though it may not 
directly act, yet so prepares the soil that the system is 
unable to resist the invading organism when it comes." ' 

1 Notter and Firth, p. 159. 



CHAPTEE IV. 

VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

As we are not usually able to destroy the impurities 
of the atmosphere within our dwellings as fast as they 
axe produced, we have recourse to ventilation as a means 
for their dilution and prompt removal. We must not 
think, however, that we do all that is necessary if we only 
renew the in-door air, for unless the source and supply 
from which we take that which is to replace or dilute the 
vitiated air be pure and clean, any system of ventilation 
which we may adopt will be of little value. 

External ventilation of buildings, streets, and cities 
is of importance, then, as well as that which relates only 
to the interior of dwellings, workshops, and places of 
assembly. Numerous investigations and statistics, both 
here and abroad, show that " the health of a town largely 
depends upon the width of the streets, the general height 
of the buildings, and the amount of yard-space at the rear 
of each which separates it from its opposite neighbor." 
It is also difficult to overestimate the value of wide streets, 
numerous diagonal ones and frequent parks or open spaces, 
especially in the more thickly inhabited portions of a city. 
In this connection we may refer with advantage to some 
work of Dr. H. S. Anders, of Philadelphia, in which he 
shows that " the number of deaths from phthisis on a very 
wide street is proportionately small compared with those on 
almost any one narrow street," and (< that there is plainly 

105 



106 VENTILATING AND HEATING. 

and generally a high mortality-rate from consumption 
associated with street narrowness in not a small part of 
Philadelphia, and that the relation between a high mor- 
tality and narrow streets is a positive and vital one." 
His statistics, covering a period of fifteen years, show that 
in one city ward, certainly favored as to location, the 
ratio of deaths from phthisis per square or block on streets 
over to those on streets under forty feet in width was 
approximately as 3 is to 5. 

As regards internal ventilation, it will be well to deter- 
mine at the outset the meaning and limitations of the 
term. Parkes says : " It will be desirable to restrict the 
term ventilation to the removal or dilution, by a supply 
of pure air, of the pulmonary and cutaneous exhalations 
of men, and of the products of combustion of lights in 
ordinary dwellings, to which must be added, in hospitals, 
the additional effluvia which proceed from the persons 
and discharges of the sick. All other causes of impurity 
of air ought to be excluded by cleanliness, proper removal 
of solid or liquid excreta, and attention to the conditions 
surrounding dwellings." "With the function of ventilation 
thus limited, it will not be necessary to make provision 
for such an abundant supply of pure air as might other- 
wise seem advisable. It is evident also that the purity 
of in-door air must almost always be relative and not 
absolute, especially in a climate like ours, which for a 
considerable portion of the year necessitates warming of 
the air and some consequent economy in its use. 

It seems strange that attention has not been given to 
the possibility of purifying a vitiated atmosphere by means 
of fire rather than by the removal or dilution of the im- 
purities, especially as we so often employ heat as an agent 
to destrey or alter the harmful qualities of other substances 



FACTORS IN VENTILATING PROBLEMS. 107 

intimately concerned with our welfare. The objection 
that many would offer at first thought to such a plan is 
that fire would rob the air of all or most of its oxygen, 
but a little calculation and consideration will show that 
this is by no means a necessary result, and that a proper 
apparatus might actually consume but comparatively little 
of this gas and give off but little carbon dioxide as a com- 
bustion-product to the atmosphere. So far as the writer 
knows, but one device on the market has this function 
professedly embodied in it, and it apparently does what is 
claimed for it in this respect. The possibilities of the 
suggestion invite further investigation. 

To discover the quantity of air desirable and consistent 
with the requirements of good ventilation and the main- 
tenance of health, two factors must be determined : (a) 
the extent to which the air of a room is contaminated in 
a given time by the impurity it receives, and (6) the 
limit of permissible impurity beyond which there will be a 
possible risk or detriment to health. In accordance with 
the above-mentioned limitations of Parkes, the contamin- 
ating substances will usually be comparatively few in 
number, but the same factors are to be sought in the case 
of any detrimental substances in the atmosphere at any 
time, provided their source or cause cannot be directly 
removed. 

Although it is extremely difficult to determine quanti- 
tatively the organic matter given off by human exhala- 
tion in any given time, the carbon dioxide, as has been 
stated, is usually exhaled in a reasonably constant ratio 
with it, and can therefore be used as an index of the 
amount of it contaminating the air. Taking Pettenkofer's 
figures, which have been substantially confirmed by other 
investigators, viz., 0.6 cubic foot of carbon dioxide per 



108 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

hour per head for a mixed assemblage at rest, 0.7 cubic 
foot for adult males, and increasing amounts according 
to the physical work done, we have the first factor (a) of 
our problem determined for all cases where the products 
of human respiration and exhalation are the only contam- 
inants. 

In establishing the limit of permissible impurity the 
second factor (6) it will naturally be advisable to require 
that the supply of air from without shall be sufficient not 
only to be thoroughly consistent with health, but also that 
there may be no perception of impurity by the senses, the 
air of the room remaining apparently as fresh and pure as 
that out-of-doors. To this end de Chaumont made a large 
number of observations (over 450), and found that as long 
as the carbon dioxide due solely to respiratory impurity 
did not exceed 0.02 per cent., the in-door air did not differ 
sensibly from that without, but that when the respiratory 
CO 2 reached 0.04 per cent, the air was rather " close " 
and the organic matter was becoming perceptible to the 
sense of smell. Subsequent investigations have shown 
that as long as the respiratory CO 2 does not exceed 0.02 
per cent, it and the concomitant " crowd poison " have no 
perceptible effect upon health ; consequently, we may take 
this amount of carbon dioxide, over and above the amount 
normally present at the time in the outer atmosphere, as 
the index of the limit of permissible respiratory impurity 
in ordinary inhabited apartments. 

Having now the two factors of our problem, and provided 
there are no other sources of contamination, it becomes 
a simple matter of proportion to determine the quantity of 
fresh air to be supplied to each individual. The equiva- 
lent of 0.02 per cent, is 0.0002 cubic foot of carbon dioxide 
in each cubic foot of air, or 1 part in 5,000. In a mixed 
assembly at rest each person exhales 0.6 cubic foot of 



SOLUTION OF PROBLEMS OF VENTILATION. 109 

carbon dioxide per hour. Consequently, to dilute properly 
this respiratory CO 2 and its coincident organic effluvia, 

O fi 
each person will need AAAO or 3000 cubic feet of fresh 

o. 



air per hour. If the individuals are all adult males, or 
if they are working, there must be a corresponding increase 
in the air supplied, running up to 6000 or even 9000 
cubic feet or more per head in certain laborious occupations. 
This is the theoretical amount of pure air necessary for 
good ventilation ; but in practice we find that we can get 
along with safety and comfort with somewhat less, because 
some of the bodily impurities are almost at once carried 
away and out of the room by the draughts through the 
exits, or through the cracks and crevices in the walls and 
ceiling which act as exits, and the incoming air does not, 
therefore, have to mix with and dilute that portion of the 
impurities that is so immediately removed. In other 
words, if ten per cent, of the vitiation is thus directly 
taken away, ten per cent, less of pure air is needed to 
dilute the remaining contaminants to the limit of permissi- 
ble impurity ; but as the quantity and the consequent 
velocity of the incoming or of the outgoing air diminishes, 
less and less of the impurities are thus directly removed, 
and experience teaches that almost the entire theoretical 
supply of fresh air is actually needed in practice to secure 
satisfactory results. 

Provision must also be made for sufficiently diluting the 
impurities from other sources of vitiation whenever they are 
present. Although combustion-products are not usually so 
dangerous as impurities from the human body and although 
they generally accumulate near the top of the room on ac- 
count of their high temperature, which also facilitates their 
escape, we should provide at least 1800 cubic feet of air 



110 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

for each cubic foot of gas burned, and ten times as much 
for each pound of oil consumed. 

In sick-rooms and hospitals an exception must also be 
taken to the equation in which 0.02 per cent, of carbon 
dioxide is taken as the permissible respiratory impurity, for 
it is found that the organic matter exhaled from the sick 
is much more offensive than that from the healthy, and is 
noticeable to the senses when the respiratory CO 2 is less 
than 0.02 per cent. So, at least one-fourth or more of 
clean air must be added to the quantity necessary for the 
healthy, and a good rule is to give the sick as much as 
possible, provided it be properly warmed and distributed. 

The use of the following formula will often be of ad- 
vantage in solving problems relating to ventilation, viz. : 

^ = d, where e represents the amount of carbonic acid ex- 
r 

haled in the given time, r the respiratory CO 2 in parts per 
cubic foot, and d the delivery or volume of fresh air in 
cubic feet. 1 Example : What will be the respiratory im- 
purity in the air of a room of 3000 cubic feet capacity 
which has been occupied by three men for two hours 
supposing that there has been an ingress of 9000 cubic 
feet of fresh air in that time ? Here e = 0.7 X 3 X 2 = 

4.2, and d = 3000 + 9000 = 12,000. = 12,000 : 

r 

4 ' 2 =r = 0.00035 = 0.035 per cent, carbon dioxide. 



12,000 

Before considering the means by which a sufficient quan- 
tity of pure air may be supplied to buildings and apart- 
ments, it will be well to note the following restrictions 

1 By allowing e to represent the total contamination per hoar, and r 
to represent the limit or extent of impurity in any given case, this 
formula can be used for almost any other ventilation problem, whatever 
may be the contaminants or source of impurity. 



SOURCE AND CONDUITS OF AIR-SUPPLY. Ill 

as to the size and height of the rooms. If a room be 
too small, the air therein will have to be changed often, 
the velocity at the inlets will be increased, uncomfortable 
draughts will be created, and the air will not diffuse itself 
so thoroughly throughout the room. Experience shows 
that even when the air is properly warmed, it cannot be 
changed much ofteiier than three times an hour without 
discomfort to the occupants of the room, unless the ven- 
tilating apparatus be very perfect in its workings and, 
therefore, expensive. Consequently, as we take 3000 
cubic feet of fresh air to be the average amount required 
per person per hour, the cubic space per individual should 
be at least 1000 cubic feet, with a corresponding increase 
where the occupants are all adult males, are all at work, 
or are in hospitals. 

Again, it must be remembered that the difficulty of 
securing equable heating and ventilation increases with 
the height of the room above a certain limit, and that 
. with the sick especially a certain amount of floor-space is 
necessary, both for the separation of patients and conve- 
nience of attendance. Ten or twelve feet will usually be 
found to be the safe limit of height for all apartments 
intended for continuous rather than temporary occupation, 
and consequently there should be a minimum allowance 
of from 85 to 100 or more square feet of floor-space 
per head, and even an increase above this in workshops, 
hospitals, etc. However, there is no objection to high 
ceilings if one is not limited as to floor-space, pure air- 
supply, and heat ; and they are even advisable in rooms 
where many lights are to be burned. Again, these re- 
strictions regarding cubic and floor-space do not neces- 
sarily apply to such buildings as churches, theatres, etc., 
which are occupied for only a comparatively limited time. 



VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

which can be thoroughly flushed out after use, and in 
which it is evidently impracticable to allot to each person 
the above floor-area. Yet pains must be taken in such as- 
semblies to keep the atmosphere pure by whatever means 
are necessary ; while for school-rooms and the like there 
must be extreme care that the pupils are not over-crowded, 
and that they have a full supply of properly warmed air. 

Any correct system of ventilation, in addition to the 
above considerations, must take into account the source 
of the air supplied, the distribution, the heating or cool- 
ing of the air when necessary, and its relative humidity. 

The air supplied to any house should be taken from 
well above the level of the ground, where it is free from 
contamination and is constantly changing, and not from 
cellars or closed areas, where the atmosphere is stagnant 
and full of impurities. The conduits leading to the 
heating or ventilating apparatus should also be so arranged 
that they may be frequently and readily cleaned. It is 
well to have them covered with gratings to prevent objects 
being thrust into them, and in some cases it may even be 
advisable to filter the air through coarse cloth or fine wire 
gauze to free it from dust and other impurities. In the 
mechanical system of ventilation adopted in the chemical 
laboratory of University College, Dundee, the air is filt- 
ered by being passed through jute cloth (light Hessian) 
stretched on frames seventeen feet long by four feet wide. 
In this case the presence of the screen actually increased 
the delivery of the air by nearly 10 per cent., probably 
by preventing eddies. The screens collected two and 
one-half pounds of dirt in seven weeks. They last about 
a year, and the cost is about 2d (four cents) a yard. 1 
In the clinical amphitheatre of the Medico-Chirurgical 
1 Stevenson and Murphy, vol. i., p. 51. 



WINDS AS VENTILATING AGENTS. 113 

College and Hospital of Philadelphia a double thickness of 
fine wire gauze is used to filter the air after a preliminary 
spraying with water, the result being entirely satisfactory. 

The air may be kept in motion and efficient ventilation 
secured (1) by those forces more or less continually acting 
in nature, producing natural ventilation, and (2) by these 
in combination with other forces set in action by man, 
giving artificial ventilation. 

Natural Ventilation. The three main forces of nat- 
ural ventilation are diffusion, the winds, and the motion 
caused by the difference in weight of volumes of air of dif- 
ferent temperatures. Diffusion is constantly taking place 
between all the gaseous constituents and impurities of the 
air, and even effects a change through brick and stone 
walls, but alone is insufficient to keep the air pure, though 
it does much to further this. Moreover, as suspended mat- 
ters are solid, not gaseous, they are not changed or re- 
moved by it. As the rate of diffusion is inversely as the 
the square roots of the densities of the gases concerned, 
the interchange goes on rapidly when there is much differ- 
ence of temperature between the in-door and outer air, 
and also at the top of rooms, where the warm impurities 
tend to accumulate. 

However, the action of this force should not be ignored 
in our calculations as being insignificant, for it is not only 
continuous, but it also affects the whole volume of the at- 
mosphere in maintaining its uniformity of composition. 
" Roscoe found that when he evolved carbon dioxide in a 
room the amount had decreased one-half from that cause 
(diffusion) in ninety minutes." l 

Winds are powerful agents for ventilation, and a slight 
breeze passing through a room changes the air therein 

1 Notter^and Firth, p. 194. 



114 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

many times in the course of an hour, and carries out by 
its force many of the solid impurities not affected by dif- 
fusion. Wind will pass through walls of wood, brick, or 
stone, although its progress is markedly arrested by much 
moisture in the walls and by paper or plaster. The aver- 
age rate of movement of the wind is considerable, but 

FIG. 15. 




Cowl or ventilator for aspiration. 

the disadvantages in utilizing it in ventilation are the 
uncertainty of its direction and velocity, the difficulty of 
regulating it, and the fact that it may fail us at a time 
when we most need its action. In winter it usually has 
to be excluded directly from our houses, because a velocity 



WINDS AS VENTILATING AGENTS. 115 

of five or six feet per second is not comfortable unless the 
air be previously warmed. We may, however, take ad- 
vantage of the fact that a small current with a high veloc- 
ity will set in motion a large volume of air, and that wind 
blowing across the top of a tube will cause an upward 
movement of air in the tube. This is one reason why 
there is almost always a draught up an unused chimney 
and why it acts as a good ventilating outlet. 

To utilize these perflating and aspirating powers of the 
wind, and to prevent back-draughts down chimneys and 
ventilating pipes, we make use of so-called ventilators or 
cowls, either movable or fixed. We can so arrange these 
that the force of the wind either drives air into the house 
(perflation) or draws air out of it (aspiration). Very 
good systems employing these have been put in operation, 
the air being warmed, if necessary, by passing it over 
stoves, steam coils, etc., and they are especially useful 
where the inner air is colder than that externally, and 
where artificial methods of ventilation dependent upon 
heat cannot be employed, as in the holds of ships, deep 
basements, etc. 

The most important agent in natural ventilation is, 
however, the movement produced by variations in the 
specific gravity of air. Though the wind might be in- 
cluded under this head, being produced by the same force, 
the air is moved independently of the wind, especially in 
closed buildings. As the air expands when heated, it 
becomes lighter, volume for volume, and rises because the 
colder, heavier air pushes in beneath to occupy the space. 
Now in all inhabited apartments a warming of the atmos- 
phere is continually taking place, not only by the lights 
and heating apparatus, but also by the bodies of the occu- 



116 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

pants. The consequent movement is, therefore, a con- 
tinual though not necessarily an equable one, varying as it 
does with the temperature of the out-door air and the 
number and intensity of the heating agents within. There 
being such a warming and movement of the air, it follows 
that, unless a room be perfectly air-tight, some of the 
apertures will act as inlets and others as outlets, and the 
quantity flowing out of the room will be practically equiv- 
alent to that flowing into it. Therefore, though this force 
may not be so powerful or efficient as strong winds at 
certain times, yet being more constant, more readily 
determined or calculated, and more controllable, it is 
the one most to be considered in arranging a system of 
ventilation. 

To determine the velocity of the influx or outgo of air, 
we make use of the law that a fluid passes through an 
opening in a partition between two volumes of the fluid 
with the velocity which a body would acquire in falling 
from a height equal to the difference in level of the 
fluid on the two sides of the partition. In the case of a 
current of air we substitute for the difference of level the 
difference in pressure on the two sides of the partition or 
opening, and this is expressed by the difference in 1 tem- 
perature multiplied by the difference in height of the 
openings of entrance and exit, and divided by 491, f^ 
representing the expansion of the atmosphere in volume 
and the lessening of density for each degree (Fahrenheit) 
of rise in temperature. The velocity will, therefore, equal 






(diff. in temp.) X (diff. in height). 
491 

Example : What is the velocity of the current in a chim- 
ney 40 feet high, the out-door temperature being 20 F. 



VELOCITY OF THE AIR-CURRENTS. 



Ill 



and in-doors 70 F.? Answer : V = 8 J 5Q X 40 = g x 

2 -f-, or about 16 feet per second. 

In actual practice use is made of a table derived from 
this formula, or else the velocity is determined directly 
by means of the anemometer. Allowance must be made 
for the friction of the air against the sides of the ducts 

FIG. 16. 




Anemometer, used for measuring the velocity of air-currents directly ; A, slide 
for releasing or stopping the dial hands ; E, support for attaching the instru- 
ment to a staff or cane. 

and against itself, amounting to from one-fourth to one- 
half of the theoretical delivery, according to the length, 
size, straightness, etc., of the inlets and outlets. The 
friction will be inversely as the diameter of the openings 
and directly as the length of the tubes ; the shape of the 
openings also affects it, and right angles diminish the 
current one-half. Accumulations of dust and dirt greatly 
lessen the velocity. 

The average velocity multiplied by the total area of the 
inlets or outlets, with a proper allowance for friction, will 



118 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

give the quantity of air passing through the rooms or 
series of rooms in any given time. 

One of the most difficult problems in natural ventilation 
is to secure a uniform distribution of pure air through the 
rooms, and to remove the impure air as fast as the pure 
air is supplied, thus preventing its mixing with the latter. 
Certain circumstances always make the question compli- 
cated : the size and number of inlets and outlets, the rate 
and direction of motion, and the forces acting to produce 
the movement must always be subject to constant change, 
and must thus constantly alter the result. In fact, it is 
practically impossible to devise a plan that will satisfy all 
conditions at all times, and the best that can be done will 
be to select that one which will give the greatest effi- 
ciency and most satisfactory results under all ordinary 
circumstances. 

The force of diffusion will always act as long as there 
is any difference of temperature and any communication 
between the exterior and interior, and no special attention 
need be given to it. For reasons already given, we cannot 
use the wind continually, but we should employ it when- 
ever possible by opening doors and windows, on account 
of its great power for sweeping out solid impurities and 
" crowd poison " and thoroughly changing the air. In cold 
weather, currents from windows, etc., should be directed 
toward the ceiling, so that they may be diffused and par- 
tially warmed before reaching the inmates of the room. 
Numerous devices have been suggested for introducing un- 
warmed out-door air without discomfort, or for diffusing it 
through the room : among these may be mentioned perfor- 
ated bricks, or double-paned windows, valves, screws, etc. A 
cheap and satisfactory temporary arrangement is to place a 
board about four inches wide and as long as the width of the 



DISTRIBUTION OF INCOMING AIR. 



119 



lower window-sash beneath the latter. Or, better, have a 
light frame covered with fine netting or wire-gauze, four 
or five inches wide, made to fit above the upper sash : the 
fresh air from without can now enter freely between the 
upper and lower sash, being reflected upward by the inner 
surface of the glass in the upper sash, and thus mixing 
with warm air before reaching the occupants of the room ; 

FIG. 17. 



'{} 0(1 




Direction of air-currents in room lighted by gas and heated by open grate. 

while the frame at the top of the window becomes an 
outlet for the foul air, the interference of the netting or 
gauze preventing too rapid an outgo and consequent loss 
of heat. But in a climate such as our own, and in all 
cold countries, special measures must be taken during a 
large part of the year for warming the out-door air before 
introducing it into occupied rooms. 



120 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

Where we intend to depend most upon the third force 
of natural ventilation, viz., the movement of unequal 
weights of air, we must provide other openings for the 
entrance and exit of the air than the windows and doors, 
so that there will be a practically constant movement 
through the rooms in a given direction, that we may be 
sure the air is from a pure source, and that we may get 
the utmost service from our appliances. 

There is considerable difference of opinion as to the best 
locations for inlets and outlets, and as the conditions are 
necessarily different in every case and so many factors 
are to be considered, it is difficult to lay down general 
rules. It should be an aim, however, to have the air 
well distributed throughout the room or rooms and to 
have no direct draughts from the inlets either upon the 
occupants or to the outlets. It is the writer's opinion 
that usually the outlets should be located near the top 
of the room, owing to the tendency of the used air to rise, 
and because in un ventilated rooms the foulest air for 
some time after its contamination will be found nearest 
the ceiling. The products of combustion from lights, 
etc., will also practically all be in the upper strata of air. 
(Fig. 17.) If, however, provision is or can be made for 
a constant and sufficiently strong aspirating force in the 
outlet ducts, it may be advisable to withdraw the used 
air from near the floor level and below the inlet openings, 
though not in too close proximity to them, since in this 
way a more thorough distribution of the incoming air 
and a greater dispersion of its contained heat are secured. 
This is aptly shown in the illustration depicting the cur- 
rents in a room heated by a ventilating grate. (Fig. 18.) 
This principle is also involved in the well-known Smead 
system of ventilation and heating, which still further 



LOCATION OF INLETS AND OUTLETS. 121 

FIG. 18. 




Direction of air-currents in room heated by a ventilating grate. 

FIG. 19. 




Illustrating the Smead system of ventilation. 



serves economy by carrying the foul air beneath the floor 
of the room from which it is taken, thus warming the 



122 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

floor with what heat the waste air yet contains and secur- 
ing the utmost benefit and service from the fuel. (Fig. 19.) 

The location of the inlets should depend on the tem- 
perature of the incoming air ; if it is cold, it should be 
admitted near the ceiling, so that it may diffuse and be 
partially warmed before reaching the inmates of the 
room ; if it is warmed, it may come in near the floor or 
below the middle level of the room. 

Where much fresh air is required, it is better to have a 
number of inlets and outlets than one large one of each, 
as the distribution is then more certain. The total area 
of the outlets may be the same as that of the inlets, as the 
expansion of the air is scarcely sufficiently great to require 
a difference. The outlets should all be on the same level ; 
otherwise the highest one will be the one of greatest dis- 
charge, and often the only one, the others possibly acting 
as inlets and drawing air from an impure source. As the 
temperature varies from time to time, and with it the cur- 
rent, some arrangement is needed for regulating the size 
of the openings of the inlets or outlets to suit the varying 
conditions. To supply 3000 cubic feet of air per head per 
hour a velocity of 5 feet per second will require an inlet 
opening of 24 square inches for each person ; but practi- 
cally it is better to have a larger opening, as the above 
velocity is uncomfortable unless the air be well warmed. 
Outlet tubes should always be protected from cold and 
kept as warm as possible. 

As long as there is a fire in a grate or stove connected 
with a chimney there will be a constant upward current 
in the latter ; and the area of the chimney's cross-section 
being known, and the velocity determined by the ane- 
mometer or by calculation, as already indicated, the 
amount of air passing out of the room in this way may 



NUMBER AND SIZE OF INLETS AND OUTLETS. 123 

readily be determined. In this connection it may be 
stated that a chimney may thus act as the only outlet and 
all other openings into the room may serve as inlets, 
especially when the fire is brisk, the outgoing current, of 
course, being practically equivalent to the amount of in- 
coming air. Moreover, the outgoing current may be so 
strong as to overtax the capacity of the inlets, in which 
case more or less of a vacuum will be created within, so 
that the outside pressure may cause down draughts in the 
chimney from time to time and a driving back of the 
smoke and gases from the fire into the room. The obvious 
remedy is to enlarge the inlet area by opening a door or 
window, or to lessen the exit draught by means of a 
damper in the chimney. On the other hand, the inlets 
may be so large and the current so strong that the air 
coming into the room cannot be properly warmed, in 
which case, again, the size of the outlet should be les- 
sened by a damper, or there should be an increase in the 
efficiency of the heating apparatus. 

When we wish to draw air from distant and non-com- 
municating rooms, the ducts may be led into a chimney 
below or just above a fire, or, better, into a flue or shaft 
alongside or encircling the heated chimney. When the 
exit ducts open into a chimney or smoke-stack the draught 
is greater just above a fire than below it, but the conduits 
should not enter near the top of the chimney, for there 
the extracting power is not so great and there is danger 
of high winds blowing smoke and foul air back into the 
rooms. Outlet flues may be constructed alongside chim- 
neys that are being constantly used ; they should be as 
smooth as possible interiorly, and should be as high as the 
adjoining chimney, to avoid down draughts. The open- 
ings from the rooms into these ducts should be as near 



124 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

the ceiling as possible, to get the benefit of the higher tem- 
perature of the upper strata of air, unless, as previously 
indicated, there is certainty of the extracting force being 
constant and sufficiently strong, when the air may be 
taken from a lower level. 

Artificial ventilation is that which is brought about 
by the intentional application of the above mentioned and 
other forces, and by means of special mechanical apparatus 
and devices, in contradistinction to natural ventilation, 
which may act independently of human cognizance and 
intention. It consists in either extracting air from or 
forcing air into a room or building, or in both together. 
The object may be attained by heating the air by special 
heating apparatus in the outlet, or by warming the outlet 
itself, or by the use of a fan, a screw, or a steam- or 
water-jet in either the inlet or outlet. 

In hospitals and other places where a constant and inde- 
pendent supply of heat can be afforded, extraction shafts 
apart from chimneys may be used. These extraction 
shafts may be heated by fires, steam pipes, or steam-jets 
at the bottom, or by steam or hot-water pipes coiled 
around the sides. Some system like the following is some- 
times used in mines where large quantities of air must be 
extracted. There are an entrance and an extraction 
shaft ; large fires are constantly maintained at the bottom 
of the latter, the air is dra\vn down the former, diverted 
through all parts of the mine by partitions, and finally 
heated and carried up the extraction shaft. 

We may also use a jet of steam or water in place of 
heat to extract air through a shaft, the openings of the foul- 
air ducts being just behind the jet. It is said that a steam- 
jet may thus set in motion over two hundred times its own 
bulk of air. Lastly, fans driven by electricity, steam- or 



ARTIFICIAL VENTILATION. 



125 



water-power are employed to extract the air, though these 
are usually more efficient in forcing in air. One of 36 
inches diameter at 600 revolutions per minute will propel 
or extract over 18,000 cubic feet of air per minute. 

In ventilation by propulsion or driving in air, these 
large revolving fans are generally used. The advantages 
of this, the plenum, system of ventilating are the certainty 

FIG. 20. 




Air propeller, with electric motor attached. 

as to the direction of current and amount of air supplied 
and the ease with which the quantity can be altered or 
measured, as well as warmed ; also, by maintaining a 
slight excess of supply, leakage into the rooms of cold or 
foul air from without is prevented. The disadvantages 
are the high cost of power in most cases, the inconveni- 
ence or danger from prolonged stoppage from accidents to 



126 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

the apparatus, and some difficulty in distributing the air. 
For instance, if it be forced in through small openings or 
at too great a velocity, it will not mix properly with the 
air of the room. This last objection can usually be ob- 
viated by giving special attention to the size, direction, 
and arrangement of the inlet flues, and the relative loca- 
tion, size, etc., of both the inlet and outlet openings. The 
increased use of electric motors and lowered cost of run- 
ning them will doubtless serve to make this system of 
ventilation more common in the near future. 

In very large buildings it may be advisable or neces- 
sary to combine the plenum or propulsion with the ex- 
haust or vacuum system, using power fans both to drive 
in and to force out large volumes of air. In this way an 
almost ideal ventilation may be secured, provided the 
incoming air be clean and be sufficiently warmed by 
means of steam or hot-water coils or radiators (see pages 
142 and 144). 

Parkes and Kenwood summarize the essential and 
practical points of ventilation as follows : 

" 1. When air is heated, it expands and tends to rise; 
when air is cooled, it contracts and tends to fall. 

" 2. Cold air tends to enter a room and to move about 
very much as water would ; and this holds true so long as 
the temperature of the fresh air remains lower than that 
in the room. 

" 3. The extent of inlet provision is not quite of the 
same importance as that for the exit of foul air ; for if 
foul air is extracted in sufficient quantities, fresh air will 
enter somehow to replace it, as by skirtings, crevices in 
doors or windows, or even through brick-work in walls. 

"4. While the inlet provision for fresh air should aver- 
age 24 square inches for each individual, several small 



PRACTICAL POINTS. 127 

inlets not too near each other are preferable to one large 
one; and the provision of inlet areas somewhat larger 
than those of exit tends to minimize draughts. 

" 5. Inlets should be as low in the room as possible 
i. e., just above the floor (so as not to raise the dust) if 
the outside air is warm or has been warmed prior to 
entry ; but at a height of five feet or more if the outside 
air is cold: otherwise unpleasant draughts are experienced. 
As a further protection against unpleasant draughts when 
cold air is admitted, the incoming air should be directed 
upward ; while hot air, since it tends to rise, should be 
directed downward. 

" 6. Outlets should be as high as possible, and prefer- 
ably close to or in the ceiling ; and they should have their 
extractive p'owers maintained by means of heat or of an 
exhaust fan, or they are liable to act as inlets. 

" 7. If possible, outlets should be so placed that vitiated 
air is drawn toward them before mixing with the general 
air of the room. 

" 8. The tendency for fresh air to take a direct course 
to the outlets must be overcome by judicious selection of 
the positions of inlets and outlets. 

" 9. Methods of ventilation devised to ventilate crowded 
premises are generally inefficient unless the incoming air 
can be warmed in winter to about 60 F. ; for efficient 
ventilation by cold air cannot be tolerated, and there is a 
great tendency among workers to close all ventilating 
inlets. 

" 10. With less than 250 cubic feet of space for each 
person, ventilation can never be satisfactory without the 
aid of mechanical force. 

" 11. The source of the incoming air should be consid- 
ered. It should not be borrowed from adjoining rooms, 



128 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

but taken directly from the outside. One great advantage 
of the more expensive mechanical system of ventilation is 
the fact that sufficient air can alway be obtained from a 
source that is known and selected. 

" 12. Ventilation dependent on the extraction of foul 
air is more convenient and satisfactory than that in which 
propulsion is mainly relied upon ; but the purity of the 
air is not provided for so easily. 

" 13. Warmed air forced into a room should be raised 
only to a temperature sufficient to prevent a feeling of cold 
(about 60 F.). More highly heated air is often felt to 
be over-dry and unpleasant." 

House-warming 1 . In cold countries there must be 
some resort to artificial heat in the winter season, and as 
this subject is more or less inseparably and closely con- 
nected with ventilation, it may be appropriately consid- 
ered at this time. Cold is depressing, uncomfortable, and 
sometimes dangerous to the young and aged and to women 
whose habits of life keep them much in-doors ; though 
well-fed, healthy adult men may not be much affected 
if accustomed to it. In this country we need a higher 
temperature in our houses than in Great Britain, on 
account of our drier climate ; evaporation and consequent 
cooling of the body take place more rapidly here, and so, 
while they are accustomed to a temperature of from 60 
to 65 F., we find from 65 to 75 F. to be no more than 
comfortable. 

It needs but slight investigation to determine that we 
practically make use of but two kinds of heat radiant 
and convected in the warming of houses, and that of 
these the latter is by far the most generally employed and 
the most economical. Radiant heat, although it is consid- 
ered to be the most healthful and warms an object directly 
without raising the temperature of the intervening air, has 



HO USE- WARMING. 129 

the disadvantages of utilizing but a small proportion of 
the fuel- value, of decreasing directly as the square of the 
distance of the object from the source of heat, and of thus 
being available only in comparatively small apartments. 
Our best example of radiant heat is that which comes 
from open fires, though any highly heated object, as a 
stove, gives off more or less of it. 

Heat that is carried from one place to another by warmed 
masses of air, water, or steam is said to be converted, and 
because of the economy in its use and the ease of distri- 
bution, especially in large spaces, it is the kind most gen- 
erally used. Conducted heat, which passes from molecule 
to molecule of the conducting substance, acts too slowly to 
be available to any extent in house-heating and may, 
therefore, be omitted from this discussion. 

Just here it may be remarked that under present con- 
ditions there are three things, any two of which we may 
have in cold climates or weather, but not all three to- 
gether, except in rare instances : they are, good ventila- 
tion, efficient heating, and cheapness. The reason for 
this is that any good system of ventilation necessarily and 
continually carries off a large quantity of air and the heat 
it contains, which latter is lost for warming purposes and 
must be replaced at the expense of more fuel. A heat- 
unit cannot be used at the same time to produce ventila- 
tion and to warm objects other than the air it keeps in 
motion. The principal aim, then, in establishing any sys- 
tem of combined ventilation and heating must be to warm, 
introduce, and carry off no more air than is necessary for 
the requirements of good ventilation and health, and to 
produce the heat for warming this air and the house itself 
as economically as possible, though care must also be had 
to secure evenness of distribution, absence of uncomfort- 
able draughts, etc. 
9 



130 



VENTILATION AND HE A TING. 



But if there be no additional or accessory heating ap- 
paratus, such a fire-place cannot be said to give good ven- 
tilation, even though large volumes of air pass up the 
chimney, for this air, entering unwarmed from without, 
sweeps across the floor of the room as a shallow, cold 
layer much below the level of the breathing apparatus of 
the inmates ; while the more or less contaminated air 
above this cold stratum remains undiluted and unchanged. 

The usual appliances for house-heating are open grates 
or fireplaces, stoves, and hot-air, steam, and hot-water 
furnaces. To these may now be added electrical heaters, 
but the cost of maintaining the latter prevents their use 
at present by any but the wealthy. 

FIG. 21. 




Jackson's ventilating grate. The outer casing is cut away to show space 
and surface for warming the incoming air. The air enters through the oblong 
inlet (a) and passes to the register opening (6) (in front) between and around 
the five smoke-pipes (c) above. 

Ordinary grates and open fireplaces give practically 
only radiant heat, and render available only from 7 to 
1 2 per cent, of the fuel efficiency. They also heat directly 
only the surfaces facing them of objects in the room, leav- 
ing the remainder cold, and by reason of the strong current 



STOVES. 131 

Up the chimney are also apt to bring in large quantities 
of air from without that has not been properly warmed, 
and thus to cause chilling and injurious draughts. Where 
there is some additional means of heating the air before it 
enters the apartment and where the chimney current is 
controlled by a damper, they are valuable, not only for 
the good ventilation they thus produce, but for the pleas- 
ing effect of the exposed fire as well. 

To make open grates more effective for heating, the 
sides and top should be inclined to the back at an angle 
of 135 degrees, so as to throw as many heat-rays as possi- 
ble into the room ; the fuel surface should be concentrated, 
and there should be a damper to prevent too rapid com- 
bustion and too much heat and air escaping up the 
chimney. It is to be understood, of course, that the 
objects warmed by the radiant heat of the open fire do 
in turn give convected heat by warming the air surround- 
ing them. 

If, however, the back and sides of these grates be sur- 
rounded by a space through which air can pass and be 
warmed by the heat that would otherwise be wasted, we 
shall have a much more satisfactory apparatus, since we 
thus get both radiant and convected heat and may obtain 
from 25 to 35 per cent, of the fuel efficiency. (Fig. 21.) 
And if clean out-door air be led into this air-space and thus 
warmed before entering the room, the ventilation will be 
greatly improved (see Fig. 18), other inlets will be unnec- 
essary, uncomfortable draughts will be avoided, and there 
will be sufficient heat provided for one or more apartments 
of moderate size. The air-chamber at the back should not 
be too small, and there should be as much heated surface 
to warm the incoming air as possible. 

Stoves utilize a considerable percentage of the fuel 
75 to 80 per cent, or more but do not remove much air; 



132 



VENTILATION AND HEATING. 



so ventilation has to be provided for in some other way 
and is apt to be neglected. Stoves may also give off dan- 
gerous gases and products of combustion if not properly 
cared for or if the damper in the stove-pipe be entirely 
closed. There should be as much surface exposed as is 
possible without diminishing the combustion, so that there 
may be increased radiation and that much air may be 
warmed moderately rather than a little excessively. It is 
often advisable, especially in assembly- or school-rooms 
and the like, to surround the stove with a sheet-iron 
cylinder extending from the floor toward the ceiling, and 
to bring in between this and the stove a supply of fresh 



FIG. 22. 



JK'w 



/ 



f,mpfr / /pg\ 

wm( 



..Jacket 




M M 



Jacketed ventilating stove. (HARRINGTON.) 

air from without. This air becomes heated, and, passing 
out over the top of the cylinder or drum, gives a plen- 
tiful supply of convected heat and greatly improves the 
ventilation. (Fig. 22.) A suitable outlet must, of course, 
be provided. 



GAS GRATES AND STOVES. 133 

Carbon monoxide and other gases are known to leak 
through cast iron when it is highly heated, so that 
stoves should not be allowed to become too hot. The 
production of carbon monoxide is most abundant soon 
after fresh fuel is added to the fire, and is evidenced by 
the characteristic blue flame above the coals. If at 
this time the escape of this gas into the outer air is pre- 
vented by the careless or accidental closing of a damper 
in the stove-pipe or chimney, it is prone to pass through 
the top and sides of the stove in the manner indicated, 
and to cause the serious and fatal results so often reported. 
Therefore, it should not be possible to cut off completely 
the draught from any coal-burning stove, nor should it be 
materially lessened until combustion is well under way. 

Other objections to stoves that are allowed to become 
too hot are the excessive dryness of the atmosphere which 
they cause and the unpleasant odor due to the scorching 
of floating organic substances that come in contact with 
the hot iron. 

The fuel most commonly used in both grates and stoves 
is either wood or some kind of coal (bituminous, anthra- 
cite, or cannel) ; but gas may often be advantageously and 
more satisfactorily employed instead of any of these, since 
the heat can be had from it practically instantaneously, 
can be closely regulated in quantity, and can be promptly 
checked when no longer desired, and since there is no pro- 
duction of dust or ashes in the room. The main objection 
to gas is that for large rooms or prolonged or continuous 
heating, it is usually more expensive than the other fuels ; 
but this does not hold good for small rooms, nor some- 
times for isolated apartments or where warmth is needed 
only temporarily ; and it is very probable that before long 
fuel gas will be it can be now supplied at rates which 
will justify a much more extended use of such fuel. 



134 



VENTILATION AND HEATING. 



The ordinary kinds of gas-grates and gas-stoves, espe- 
cially those which consume the gas incompletely, should all 
be constructed with flues to carry off directly the products 
of combustion, and this particularly when any large quan- 
tity of gas is used. Theoretically, when the gas is burned 
in a properly adjusted Bunsen or " atmospheric " burner, 
the only combustion-products will be carbon dioxide and 
water, the former of which is rapidly diffused into the 




Section of Backus' portable steam radiator for use with gas. 

outer air, as has been shown, and is not likely to be harm- 
ful in any quantities thus produced, while the aqueous 
vapor is usually beneficial to the atmosphere rather than 
otherwise. However, it seems that in practice even these 
Bunsen burners may sometimes give to the air a disagree- 
able odor (said to be due to the formation of acetylene), 
and so occasionally need flue connections. 



OIL-STOVES. 135 

In this connection it may be interesting to describe one 
form of gas-heater which, so far as the writer knows, is 
unique. It is intended not only to consume perfectly the 
gas it uses, giving nothing to the air but carbon dioxide 
and water, but also to destroy by fire the impurities of 
the atmosphere of the room, thus doing away with chim- 
neys or flues and the necessity of much ventilation. By 
a peculiar arrangement a continuous and large current of 
air is made to pass through the flame, thus burning the 
impurities whether gaseous or solid. The heat of the 
burning gas is also used to convert a quantity of water 
into steam, which, by heating the containing chamber 
or coils of pipe and these in turn the atmosphere sur- 
rounding them, warms many times the volume of air pos- 
sible to heat by the flame alone. In addition, the humid- 
ity of the atmosphere is maintained by the evaporation of 
water from an open basin beneath the fire. 

The ordinary openings of any room are amply sufficient 
to allow diffusion of the excess of carbon dioxide one- 
half escaping in this way, according to Roscoe, within 
ninety minutes and to permit the ingress of enough 
air to supply all the needs of the inmates and of the fire 
itself. Experience and careful experiments seem to show 
that the claims of the inventor are well founded, and that 
the apparatus is healthful in its operation and produces 
no harmful effects even after continued use for several 
months. At any rate, there seems to be no reason why 
we may not purify the air by fire instead of by dilution 
and removal, the methods employed in the hitherto de- 
scribed systems of ventilation. 

Oil-stoves are now used quite extensively, and, beside 
being portable, have the same advantages as gas-stoves, 
viz., that a considerable quantity of heat may be had 
quickly and just as long as it is desired, and at a fairly 



136 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

moderate cost. The combustion-products necessarily mix 
directly with the atmosphere of the room, and where 
reasonably perfect burning is had doubtless consist of 
little else than carbon dioxide and water. One pound of 
oil, the hourly consumption of a rather large stove, will 
require about 150 cubic feet of air for its complete com- 
bustion, and will produce about 25 cubic feet of carbon 
dioxide. 

"We do not think that the experience has yet been 
accumulated which would enable us to speak positively 
of the innocuousness of a considerable admixture of car- 
bonic acid with the air we breathe; but the knowledge 
that in hundreds of cases oil-stoves are used for heating 
living-rooms and even bed-rooms, without apparent injury 
to the occupants, makes one feel fairly confident that the 
products of the complete combustion of hydrocarbons are 
not injurious when mixed with such an amount of air as 
is sufficient to dilute to a proper degree the respiratory 
products. . . . Experiments show that, provided the com- 
bustion of the oil is complete and that the ventilation is 
sufficient for the ordinary effects of respiration, the use 
of oil-stoves for heating purposes may be advantageously 
employed in both day-rooms and sleeping-rooms. The 
efficacy of oil-stoves is increased by placing over them 
a diffuser or radiator, so as to prevent the heated products 
ascending direct to the ceiling ; care needs also to be taken 
that only the better kinds of mineral oil are used ; if 
inferior qualities of oil are burnt, perfect combustion is 
more difficult to obtain." l 

The above remarks, as far as they apply to the healthful 
use of the air, may probably be used with equal justice in 
regard to gas-stoves, provided that with such dilution 

1 Notter and Firth, p. 228. 






GAS-STOVES. 



137 



their products give no obviously harmful or disagreeable 
results. 

The heating apparatus thus far described is such as we 
are accustomed to employ for warming the air of single 
or possibly of adjoining rooms. Where a whole dwell- 
ing or other large building is to be heated, it will usually 

FIG. 24. 




Spear's hot-air furnace. 

be of advantage to do this from one point, and that not 
in any of the living apartments. In this way we shall 
have a centralization of fuel, both unbnrned and burning, 
and the ability to derive more heat from it ; a lessening 
of the labor and attention bestowed on the fires ; the obvi- 
ation of much dust, dirt, and combustion-products in 



138 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

living-rooms, and, presumably, a more equable and satis- 
factory warming of the whole building. From such a 
central point the heat is distributed by Hot air, hot water, 
or steam, or by hot air in combination with either of the 
other two. 

Hot-air furnaces supply a large amount of convected 
but no radiant heat. There is a very prevalent opinion 
that they are not healthful, and that wherever possible 
they should be replaced by some other means of heating. 
But when properly constructed and cared for, a hot-air 
furnace of the proper size is not only a good heater, but 
also a powerful ventilating agent, for the large supply of 
air passing through it into the rooms above must in 
turn find an exit either through specially devised out- 
lets or through the innumerable cracks and crevices 
around all doors and windows, and the ventilation will be 
accordingly. 

One frequent source of trouble is too small a fire-pot, 
giving insufficient heating surface and necessitating too 
rapid and too intense combustion of fuel. There should 
be a considerable expanse of surface, never too highly 
heated, so that large volumes of air will be moderately 
warmed rather than small quantities overheated and 
" burned." Air too highly heated is very dry and offen- 
sive to the senses ; also, by taking excessive moisture from 
the body through the skin and mucous membranes and by 
exciting glandular activity, it increases the liability to 
frequent "colds" and congestions. Moreover, a large 
quantity of air moderately warmed will perforce be car- 
ried to all the rooms of the house, warming them equably 
and driving before it the air already there : whereas a 
much smaller volume, excessively heated by the same or 
even a greater amount of fuel, will make its way along 



HOT-AIR FURNACES. 139 

the conduits of least resistance to a few favorably located 
rooms, overheating them while the rest of the house is un- 
warmed, and any satisfactory natural ventilation is ^pre- 
vented. 

Fio.25. 




Hot-air furnace, showing cold-air inlet and hot-air flues. Only one of the 
lateral branches of the main inlet (A) above is shown. 

All joints in the furnace must be as nearly gas-tight as 
possible to prevent the combustion-products passing from 
the fire-box or smoke-flues into the air-chambers and 
thence into the rooms above. 



140 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

The furnace should be located near the cold side of the 
house that is, the side on which the prevailing cold winds 
impinge for it is said to be as difficult to drive the air 
ten feet against the wind as forty or fifty feet with it. 
It may also be well, if the basement ceiling is low, to place 
the ash-pit below the level of the basement floor, in order 
to give sufficient slope to the air-ducts; but in every 
case the space beneath the furnace should be floored and 
lined with cement or asphalt to prevent the drawing in of 
soil-air. 

The air-supply should not be taken from the cellar, 
even though the latter be apparently clean and free from 
contamination with soil-air, but should come from a 
clean source out-of-doors, well above the ground-level 
and from the direction of the prevailing winds. The 
cold-air duct or ducts should be screened at the entrance 
to prevent the admission of refuse or vermin, should be 
arranged to permit of regular cleaning, should have a 
damper to regulate the supply of air, and should have a 
cross-section of at least two-thirds of the combined sec- 
tional area of the hot-air flues leading from the furnace. 
The importance of a large air-inlet cannot be too strongly 
emphasized, for upon this feature may most depend the 
satisfactory action of the furnace. It may be desirable to 
provide for filtration of the air through coarse cloth or 
fine wire-gauze, especially if there be much dust in the 
incoming air. 1 

If possible, the hot-air flues or ducts should not be too 
narrow in cross-section, but round or square to lessen 
friction ; and for the same reason they should be as direct 
in their course and as nearly vertical as possible. They 
should be covered from the furnace to the register-openings 
1 See page 107, 



PRACTICAL POINTS ABOUT FURNACES. 141 



with asbestos or other non-conducting material to prevent 
the loss of heat that otherwise escapes from them into the 
cellar and between the partitions. Lastly, their register- 
openings into the rooms should not face the windows or 
prevailing winds, unless it be unavoidable, for if they do 
the passage of warm air into the rooms will often be 
almost if not completely checked. 

The following table, from Coplin and Be van, gives the 
proper size for hot-air flues and registers : 

FIRST FLOOR. 



Size of room in cubic 
feet. 


Size of pipe. 


Size of register. 


If round. 


If square. 


If round. 


If square. 


Less than 1500 


7 inches 
8 
9 
10 


4X9 inches 
4 X 12 " 
4 X 16 " 
4 X 18 " 


9 inches 
10 
12 
12 


7 X 10 inches 
8 X 10 " 
8 X 12 " 
9 X 14 " 


1500 to 2000 . . 


2000 to 3000 . . 


3000 to 4000 





Economy will be subserved in most cases by taking 
care to burn the fuel in hot-air furnaces quite slowly, 
since in this way larger quantities of air are warmed and 
more satisfactorily, and there is also less waste of heat 
through the smoke-flues and up the chimney. Moreover, 
it is the experience of the writer that by working the 
furnace in this way at low pressure, so to speak, the air 
from it will be less likely to become too dry, nor will it 
need the addition of so much moisture, something essen- 
tially necessary and yet most often neglected where com- 
paratively little air is excessively heated. 

The amount of water to be added also depends upon 
the humidity and temperature of the out-door atmosphere. 



142 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

When the latter is but little, if at all, below the freezing- 
point and is almost saturated, and when the in-door air is 
but moderately warmed, as suggested, the lack of added 
moisture may scarcely be noticed ; while if the air without 
be at the same time dry and very cold, its actual content 
of water will be very little, and much added moisture 
will be needed to make it either comfortable or healthful, 
even though warmed to only a moderate degree. 1 

" Concerning the need of insuring a normal amount of 
moisture in the air of heated buildings, there is more or 
less diiference of opinion, but the weight of evidence from 
a medical standpoint, and from our own sensations, points 
to the advisability of introducing an amount of moisture 
sufficient to bring the relative humidity of the air to 50 
or 55 per cent. . . . Air at 25 F., saturated with moist- 
ure and then heated to 70, would need over a half-pint 
of water in every thousand cubic feet to give it a hu- 
midity of 65 per cent., and this is far in excess of the 
capacity of the ordinary water-pot of the furnace, as is 
seen when we reckon what half a pint per thousand cubic 
feet means in the course of a day." 2 

Some recent tests by H. M. Smith, of Brooklyn, show 
that a relative humidity above 50 and a temperature of 
about 65 F. is most healthful and comfortable. " With 
a temperature of 72 or 74 degrees and a relative humidity 
of 30 per cent, as compared with a room at 65 to 68 de- 
grees and a relative humidity of about 60 per cent., the 
latter seemed the warmer and more comfortable." Prof. 

1 Most modern furnaces have a water-pan from which evaporation may 
take place freely into the warmed air, but the filling of this, when left 
to servants, is so often neglected that connection with the water-supply 
of the house hy means of a float-valve or automatic cut-off would better 
serve to secure a constant supply. 

2 Harrington, pp. 420, 421. 



HUMIDITY OF WARMED AIR. 



143 



Wilson, of Milwaukee, says further : " About 25 per cent, 
of the cost of heating is expended in raising the tem- 
perature from 60 to 70 degrees ; so if we can keep com- 
fortable at a temperature of 65 degrees, we shall have 
saved at least 12 J per cent, of the total cost of heating." 

When it is necessary to carry heat for a considerable 
distance or to warm large buildings or blocks of buildings 
from a central point, it will be better and more economical 
to employ hot water or steam as the heat-transmitting 

FIG. 26. 




Humidifier. The cotton wicking shown absorbs water from a reservoir below. 
(HARRINGTON.) 

agent, on account of the high specific heat of the former 
and the great amount of latent heat held by the latter. " It 
is uneconomical to convey heated air any long distance, 
as the amount of heat conveyed per cubic foot of air 
raised to any practical temperature is so small and so 
easily lost in transit. On this account Morin considers 
the availability (of hot-air furnaces) to be limited to a 
horizontal range of 40 or 45 feet from the heating appa- 
ratus." l 

Stevenson and Murphy, vol. i., p. 117. 



144 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

An equal quantity of heat, viz., 1 thermal unit, is re- 
quired to raise 1 pound of water or 50 cubic feet of air 1 
degree F., and accordingly water will carry more than four 
(4.21) times as much heat as an equal weight of air at the 
same temperature. " Further, a greater effect is produced 
when water, in the form of steam, is made the carrier of 
heat, because 1 pound of water vapor at 100 C. (212 F.) 
will, in condensing to form boiling water, give off suffi- 
cient heat to raise the temperature of 5.36 pounds of 
water (or 4.21 X 5.36 = 22.5 pounds of air) from to 
100 C. (32 to 21 2 F.)." 1 

Hot-water heating may be by either the low-pressure 
or the high-pressure system. In the former, large pipes 
(generally 4 inches in diameter) are used, and, the system 
being open to the air at its highest point, the temperature 
of the water can never be much above 212 F. at any part 
of the system. The water circulates comparatively slowly, 
but, owing to the large volume, conveys much heat from 
the furnace to the places where it is needed. The high- 
pressure system employs small but very strong pipes, the 
water being completely enclosed from the outer air, where- 
fore it attains a high temperature, usually about 300 F., 
and circulates rapidly. The necessary expansion is pro- 
vided for by larger pipes partly filled with air at the top 
of the circuit. The maximum temperature is regulated 
by the proportion of pipe, usually one-tenth, exposed to 
the fire. Either of the hot-water systems, but especially 
the low-pressure one, requires careful planning and setting 
to maintain evenness of circulation ; and when the latter 
is complicated, as by many radiators at various levels, or 
where a number of circulations have to be supplied from 
the same boiler, it may be very difficult to maintain an 
even head and an equable distribution of heat in all. 
1 Notter and Firth, Treatise on Hygiene, p. 231. 



STEAM AND HOT-WATER HEATING. 145 

" If properly constructed and the heating planned for 
when the house-plans are made, this hot- water system is 
probably the most economical, both in fuel used and 
repairs demanded." l 

Steam-heating methods are usually quite satisfactory, 
not only because of the large quantity of heat carried, but 
also since a rapid circulation is readily maintained even 
under adverse circumstances. The size of pipe used will 
depend on the extent of the distribution, but the calibre 
of the radiator should always be considerably larger than 
that of the supply-pipes in order to favor condensation 
and the consequent liberation of latent heat, and every 
facility should be provided for the speedy return of the 
condensed vapor to the boiler. Care must also be taken 
to prevent the condensation occurring in such a way as 
to cause obstruction to the flow of the steam and the dis- 
agreeable thumping and noise that result. 

With either steam-heating or hot-water heating the 
direct, the indirect, or the direct-indirect method of 
radiation may be used. Of these, the direct method 
that is, where the radiators are placed in the rooms to be 
warmed is most commonly employed in dwellings and 
other buildings of moderate size ; but it is open to the 
objections that in itself it does not bring about a sufficient 
change of air, that the necessary inlets and outlets for the 
latter are rarely provided, and that when present they 
are independent of the heating system of the house. Of 
course, these objections are wanting when the direct is 
combined with the indirect method, or when a plentiful 
supply of pure air is brought from without and is warmed 
by being made to pass through the radiators (either open 
or enclosed in boxing) before diffusing through the room. 
In the indirect method the radiators are placed outside of 
10 i Coplin and Bevan, p. 325. 



146 



VENTILATION AND &EATIN&. 



the room in suitable and convenient enclosures, into which 
fresh air is brought from out-of-doors, and from which the 
Warmed air is conveyed by suitable conduits to the re- 
spective rooms above. The direct-indirect method locates 
the radiators in the room, but encloses them and provides 
inlets to the boxing from without, so that the entering air 
must pass over the heating surface and be warmed before 
entering the room. If properly arranged, both the indirect 
and the direct-indirect methods should furnish good and 

FIG. 27. 




Indirect radiation. 1 

ample ventilation, the incoming warm air pushing the used 
air of the room ahead of it through the various openings 
in the walls of the room. Safety-valves on steam boilers 
lessen the risk of explosions, and automatic thermo- 
regulators make it possible to maintain a practically 
even temperature throughout the house or building at 
all times. But there must be some arrangement for 
supplying additional moisture to the warmed air, just as 

i Figs. 27, 28, and 29 are used by courtesy of The American Radiator Co. 



WARMING OF A CLINICAL AMPhlTHEATRE. 147 

with hot-air furnaces, for, contrary to the opinion of 
many, neither the steam nor hot-water systems increase 
the atmospheric humidity. 

In the clinical amphitheatre of the Medico-Chirurgical 
College of Philadelphia the indirect system is employed, 
the details being as follows : The out-door 'air is brought 
from near the roof-level through a large shaft into the 
cold-air room, where it is moistened by a spray and 
whence it passes through a dust-filter, consisting of a 

FIG. 28. 




This Illustration shows a good method for incasing indirect radiation and 
also suggests a simple way to secure rotary circulation of the air in the room 
when it becomes desirable to shut off the out-door supply. The registers in 
the floor, however, are not advisable, as they readily collect dust and dirt. 

double layer of fine wire-gauze. Thence it passes through 
tempering radiators (to raise the temperature partially) 
into the revolving fan, driven by its own engine, whence 
part passes through a second and larger radiator to be 
further warmed, and part below the latter, the two cur- 
rents again uniting and, after mixing, passing through the 
flues into the amphitheatre above. In this the tempera- 
ture is regulated by a thermostat, the latter governing a 
damper (not shown in Fig. 30) which always permits the 



148 



VENTILATION AND HEATING. 



same volume of air to pass into the flues, but controls 
the respective proportions of heated and tempered air, so 
that the mixture practically does not vary in temperature. 
In this way 900,000 cubic feet of air at a fixed tempera- 
ture can be supplied per hour. For the private operating- 

FIG. 29. 







Direct-indirect radiation. 



rooms the system is the same except that the tempered 
and the heated air are not mixed, but each is carried by 
separate flues to double registers in the operating-rooms. 
In this way each operator can have the temperature that 
he desires in his room at any time. 



THE PLENUM SYSTEM. 



149 



Another excellent method is to use the plenum system, 
to warm or " temper " the incoming air, either before or 
after it passes through the driving fan, to a temperature 
just below that desired in the rooms, in which steam or 
hot-water radiators are suitably located. The air will 

FIG. 30, 




Steam radiators and blower used in warming the clinical amphitheatre of 
the Medico-Chirurgical College of Philadelphia by the indirect system. (The 
casing of the radiators is not yet applied.) Tempering radiator at left ; warm- 
ing radiator at right ; casing of fan between. 

then pass from the inlets more or less directly to the radi- 
ators and be additionally warmed by them before rising 
above the lower levels of the room. In this way the 
regulation of heat and the circulation and distribution of 
the fresh air are much improved, and there is less like- 
lihood of the latter going directly from inlets to outlets. 



150 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

To determine the amount of radiating surface needed 
for any room, we must multiply the volume of air to be 
heated per hour by the difference between its temperature 
in degrees Fahrenheit before and after warming, and di- 
vide this product by 50, the quantity of air in cubic feet 
raised 1 degree F. by 1 thermal unit. This will give the 
number of heat-units required to warm the air. Then 
this quotient must be divided by the difference between 
the temperature of the radiating surface and that of the 
air when finally warmed multiplied by 1.75, the number 
of thermal units given off per hour by 1 square foot of 
hot-water or steam-pipe for each Fahrenheit degree of 
heat it loses. This will give the area of hot-water or 
steam-pipe required to warm the given volume of air. 
Thus, to warm 6000 cubic feet of air per hour from 20 

rno ^ -n 6000 X (70 20) 

to 70 F. will require ' = 6000 heat- 

50 

units, and if the surface of the radiator be 200 F., 



(200 -70) XI. 75 = 26 ' 37 square feet wil1 be the area 
of radiating surface required. To this must be added at 
least one-half square foot for each square foot of window 
glass and for each square yard of outer wall exposed. 






CHAPTER V, 

WATER. 

NEXT to air, water is the most important of all sub- 
stances necessary to human life. While it has been often 
demonstrated that man may do without food for a consid- 
erable length of time, even for several weeks, he can prob- 
ably not survive much more than ten days without water. 
Not only must one have sufficient to supply the internal 
wants of the body and to replace that lost by excretion, 
evaporation, and respiration, but from a sanitary point of 
view a plentiful supply is also needed to maintain cleanli- 
ness of bodies, clothing, and dwellings, and oftentimes to 
remove sewage, excreta, etc., from the vicinity of inhab- 
ited places. The care of furnishing water in abundance 
and of maintaining its purity is therefore entirely within 
the domain of the physician and the sanitarian. 

Before inquiring into the sources whence we obtain the 
water that we use, it will be well to know what amount is 
required by the body for its daily needs and how much 
for other necessary purposes, so that we may be able to 
judge not only whether a given source furnishes pure 
water, but also whether it gives a sufficient supply of it. 

The average adult should take from 70 to 100 fluid- 
ounces per day for nutrition and internal needs of the 
body alone about one-third of this being a component 
part of the food and the rest being taken in as drink. The 
writer is of the opinion that the average person does not 



152 WATER. 

imbibe enough water for the most healthful action of his 
tissues and organs. Certain it is that in most cases the 
plentiful use of a good drinking-water not only greatly 
favors the body metabolism, but also materially assists in 
the flushing out and carrying away of the various wastes 
and excreta of the system. 

In addition to this we must supply a sufficiency for 
cooking and for washing the food, body, clothing, house- 
hold utensils and parts of the house itself, and to remove 
the household waste and sewage through the drains and 
sewers provided for that purpose. Cleanliness is an essen- 
tial requisite for the preservation of health, and cleanly 
habits should be inculcated among all classes of people 
and every facility provided for removing filth of all kinds 
from persons, clothes, and dwellings. This, of course, 
cannot be done without an abundant supply of water. 

Experience shows that about 25 gallons per head per 
day should be furnished for the above purposes, and as 
the quantity used by domestic animals, manufacturing 
establishments, municipal needs, etc., must be added to 
this, 50 gallons or even more per capita should be the 
daily quota wherever it is at all possible. And though a 
supply that permits of excessive waste may be inadvisable 
and expensive, both in its provision and on account of 
increasing the cost of carrying it away after use, it is 
always better to have too much than too little, and the 
disadvantages of too scanty an amount are much greater 
than those of one too large. 

It should be stated, however, that most foreign cities 
are supplied with much less water per capita than is 
apparently needed by the municipalities of this country, 
and yet they seem to have an abundance for all necessary 
purposes and the requirements of public health, For 



AMOUNT NEEDED DAILY. 153 

instance, London, with a population of over five millions, 
has an average daily supply that but slightly, if at all, 
exceeds that of Philadelphia with one-fourth the number 
of inhabitants ; while Berlin, which has about the same 
population as Philadelphia, had in 1893 an average daily 
supply of filtered water of only 18.4 gallons per head, all 
of which was sold to consumers by meter, but to which 
must be added considerably more that was from wells and 
other sources and was exclusively used for manufacturing 
purposes, running machinery, etc. Undoubtedly the quan- 
tity wasted in many of the cities in this country is exces- 
sive, and the cost of supplying that part of the total quota 
would go a long way toward improving and rendering 
pure and safe the remaining part that is absolutely needed. 
Whether the compulsory use of water-meters is the best 
way of bringing about an improvement in this respect 
remains to be determined ; but it is also a question whether 
our larger cities, with rapidly increasing populations, can 
afford to continue to expend the money necessary to purify 
the enormous and increasing quantities of water daily 
supplied to their respective consumers. 

As only a small portion of the quantity indicated above 
is required for the internal needs of the body, it has been 
suggested that two kinds of water be furnished to each 
dwelling one for drinking and cooking purposes and for 
the washing of the body, to which especial attention as to 
purity should be given ; and another kind for all other 
purposes, its composition and purity being disregarded, 
excepting possibly as concerns the hardness. This would 
enable the authorities to furnish a water purer than usual 
for those needs wherein purity is of the greatest impor- 
tance, and would obviate the necessity of furnishing pure 
water abundantly for all purposes ; but the scheme would 



154 WATER. 

necessitate a double set of reservoirs, mains, distributing 
apparatus, etc., thus materially increasing the cost; and 
there would always be present the danger of the careless 
or ignorant using the impure water for bodily needs, thus 
increasing the risks and bad results that we wish to avoid. 
Therefore, wherever there may be an abundance of pure 
water for all personal and domestic purposes, if the 
authorities but take pains to furnish it, it will be best 
to have but one supply in dwellings, and this as pure 
and abundant as money and the ablest sanitary skill can 
make it ; though there may be little or no objection to using 
a different water for factories, stables, city functions, etc. 

As to the question of supply through meters, it may be 
added that the suggestion has been made that the regular 
charge for water begin only after a certain specified amount 
per month per capita or per household has been furnished 
free or at the lowest possible cost, thus doing away with 
the objection that those who need the water most for per- 
sonal and sanitary uses would be tempted to economize too 
much if they had to pay for all they consumed. To com- 
pensate for this it might be wise to arrange a sliding or 
increasing price scale for larger quantities. Whether a city 
could afford to do this, would have to be carefully consid- 
ered, and would probably depend largely upon local 
circumstances. 

Another method is " to assess every owner of premises 
where water is used (and measured by meter) a certain 
moderate, but fixed, sum yearly, even though water used 
at the regular rate per thousand gallons does not call for 
so much charge." This initial sum should be considerably 
less than the rate necessary under the old method, and in 
itself would be an inducement to the introduction and use 
of meters. Any water used in excess of the volume repr 



USE OF WATER-METERS. 155 

resented by this primary charge would, of course, be paid 
for at the regular rate. 

Experience shows that meters greatly reduce the total 
consumption of water, since it is to the direct advantage 
of each consumer to check reckless waste on his own 
premises, which duty is otherwise neglected because it 
doe3 not affect the yearly charge and cost of water to him. 
Meters, wherever used, seem to have materially reduced 
both the cost of water to the consumer and the cost of 
supplying it on the part of the city or other owners of the 
water-works. It may, however, be advisable for the latter 
to own and control the meters, as do gas-companies. 

Sources. Practically, all drinking-water has at some 
time or other fallen upon the earth from the atmosphere in 
the form of rain, hail, snow, or dew ; but when we speak 
of its source we have reference rather to the immediate 
place or locality from which we collect it for use. The 
rain on reaching the earth is disposed of in three ways : 
part at once evaporates and goes back to the atmosphere, 
part flows off according to the slope of the ground and 
collects in pools and streams, and part sinks into the 
soil. The ratio which these three portions bear to one 
another depends on the time, place, character of soil, 
amount of rainfall, etc. Consequently, we may classify 
the sources of potable waters as Leffmann does as fol- 
lows : rain-water, collected immediately as it falls in the 
form of rain, dew, snow, etc. ; surface-water, collected in 
ponds, lakes, streams, etc., and in free contact with the 
air; subsoil- or ground-water, derived mainly from the rain- 
or surface-water of the district, but which percolates and 
flows through the subsoil and is therefore not exposed 
directly to the atmosphere ; deep- or artesian-water, which 
is separated from the ground- water of the district by one 



156 WATER. 

or more practically impermeable strata, and which accu- 
mulates at a considerable depth below the surface. Springs 
are the result of the out-cropping of water-bearing strata 
below the level of the water-line in them, and furnish 
either subsoil- or artesian-water, according to the kind 
contained in the respective strata. 

Main-water is theoretically the purest at our command, 
but in reality it takes up many impurities from the air in 
its fall, especially in the neighborhood of human habita- 
tions and communities, and by the time it reaches the 
earth contains ammonia, nitrous and nitric acids,, and, in 
towns, sulphurous acid, soot, many bacteria, and even 
microscopic plants. Moreover, and especially after con- 
tinued dry weather, the collecting surface upon which it 
falls is apt to be covered with dust and impurities of all 
kinds, which, being taken up by the rain-water, tend to 
make it unfit for use. But if there be some arrangement 
for turning aside the first portion of the rain, it contain- 
ing the most of the impurities, and if the remainder be 
filtered and stored in proper receptacles, the water may be 
of excellent quality. 

The main objection, however, to the sole use of rain- 
water is that dependence is placed upon a very uncertain 
source, and one which is especially apt to fail when an 
increased supply is most needed. The average rainfall 
in Philadelphia is about 39 inches per year ; in very wet 
years it is about one-third more, and in very dry years 
about one-third less than the annual average. Each inch 
of rainfall gives 4.67 gallons per square yard of area on 
which it falls, equivalent to 22,617 gallons per acre. 
Allowing 60 square feet of collecting surface per head, 
and estimating the loss by evaporation, etc., at 20 per cent., 
an annual rainfall of 30 inches would give only about 2 
gallons per head per day, or just about sufficient for cook- 



SOURCES OF DRINKING- WATER. 



157 



ing and drinking purposes, and none for the other needs 
of the household. 

Rain-water may be collected from roofs or from a plot 
of ground paved for the purpose with slate or cement, and 
be led by proper conduits to a cistern. It should be filtered 
(Fig. 31) before passing into the cistern, while the cistern 
itself should be such as to give no unpleasant taste or in- 
jurious substance to the water, should be so situated that 



Movable covering stone. 



FIG. 31. 

Paving. 



Level of ground. 




Cistern 



A simple filter for rain-water. (NOTTER and FIRTH.) l 

it will receive no rubbish or impurities and that the water 
may be kept cool, and should be cleaned regularly and 
sufficiently often to keep the water sweet and wholesome. 
As rain-water contains considerable carbon dioxide and 
other gases, its solvent powers are increased, and cisterns 
should not be lined with lead, copper, zinc, or iron, lest 
these metals be taken up by the water and produce harm- 

1 Fig. 31 illustrates a filter for an underground cistern. One of similar 
construction can be readily made for cisterns above ground, the latter 
being always preferable. 



158 WATER. 

ful results. These remarks do not apply to the so-called 
rustless iron now much used ; but galvanized iron should 
not be used, as it may give up zinc to the water. Cement 
should also be used in lining brick or stone cisterns instead 
of mortar, as the latter may add lime to the water and 
render it hard. 

Underground cisterns for storing rain-water should be 
avoided where possible, since they are liable to soil-air or 
sewage contamination unless absolutely air- and water- 
tight. Nor should the overflow pipe from a cistern open 
into a soil-pipe or sewer-pipe or drain, but always into 
the open air, since water is very prone to absorb the vari- 
ous gases with which it comes in contact and the sewer- 
air may readily contaminate the entire contents of the 
cistern. 

Rain-water is especially valuable for cooking and wash- 
ing on account of its softness, water being called " hard " 
when it contains an excess of the salts of calcium or 
magnesium in solution. Hardness due to the presence 
of calcium bicarbonate is said to be temporary, because 
it disappears when the water is boiled, one molecule of 
carbon dioxide being driven off by the heat and leaving the 
insoluble calcium carbonate behind. Hardness due to the 
other salts of calcium and magnesium is called permanent, 
because it is not removed by boiling. In cooking with 
water temporarily hard the chalk is precipitated upon the 
sides and bottom of the vessel, and, being a non-conductor, 
prevents the passage of heat and thus wastes fuel. 

Hard water may also prevent the proper softening of 
certain foods, such as peas and beans, in cooking. In 
washing and laundry work the calcium and magnesium 
salts unite with the fatty acids of the soap and prevent 
the formation of a lather ; for instance, one grain of chalk 
destroys the efficiency of about eight grains of soap. As 



159 

we do not call a water hard unless it contains more than 
ten grains of chalk or its equivalent per gallon, and as 
rain-water rarely contains more than one-half grain per 
gallon^ it is easily understood why the latter is so valuable 
in the kitchen and laundry. 

Surface Waters. A water-supply taken from rivers or 
smaller streams not polluted by the refuse and sewage 
from towns, factories, or cultivated farm-lands higher up 
the stream, may be fairly pure and safe to use. The best 
water of this kind will be from hilly and uninhabited, 
uncultivated tracts, with many small streams fed by con- 
stant springs and uniting to form rapid creeks and rivers. 
Such water may be tinged slightly with vegetable or 
mineral matters, but in general such coloration is harm- 
less. For storage, dams may be thrown across conveni- 
ent valleys, thus impounding the water and at the same 
time exposing it to the oxidizing and aerating influence 
of the atmosphere and allowing the solid impurities to 
settle to the bottom. Small lakes or ponds may be util- 
ized to add to supplies of this kind, provided they be not 
stagnant nor have much decaying matter along their banks. 

On the other hand, water from a stream which has 
received the sewage from a village or town of any size, or 
the refuse of factories, or the drainage from large tracts 
of cultivated land, should be considered as at least suspi- 
cious. River-waters are generally hard and may contain 
any of the minerals in the soils which they drain or over 
which they pass ; but the great danger is from impurities 
of animal origin poured into them along their course. 

It is not safe to depend altogether on the self-purifica- 
tion of sewage-contaminated rivers, as was formerly done, 
though a considerable portion of the sewage and filth un- 
doubtedly is removed, part by oxidation by the air in the 
water, especially in streams flowing over dams, rapids, etc.; 



160 WATER. 

part by subsidence or deposition along the banks ; part by 
fish and animalcule, and much by the myriads of sapro- 
phytic bacteria whicti such waters contain. If no addi- 
tional pollution is added, what is left unchanged by the 
above purifying agencies is still further diluted by the 
supplies of pure water that every stream receives from 
springs along its banks and in its bed and from tributary 
streamlets, so that, though the water may never be so pure 
as it was originally, it may possibly become or, by proper 
filtration or other treatment, be made a safe and usable 
water. But where the proportion of filth exceeds a certain 
percentage, and especially where sewage is being constantly 
added, the contained oxygen is rapidly used up and oxida- 
tion ceases, fish and animalculse cannot live in the water 
for lack of sufficient oxygen, and though the heavier and 
larger particles of the sewage sink to the bottom or stick 
to the sides, they are stirred up and set in motion by any 
increase in the velocity of the current. The only remain- 
ing agents active in the destruction of the foul matter are 
the bacteria, but in themselves they are often insufficient 
for the task, and the water thus polluted is unsafe for use. 1 
The greatest danger from sewage contamination, how- 
ever, is that it may at any time add to the water tlio 
germs of infectious disease, which, multiplying rapidly 
and not being surely removed or destroyed by the ordinary 
agents or methods of water-purification, greatly increase 
the risks to health. It often fortunately happens that, 

1 According to the report of the Rivers Pollution Commission some 
years ago, no stream in England is of sufficient length to purify itself 
satisfactorily of the sewage contamination it is liable to receive. On the 
other hand, it is only fair to state that, according to a recent report 
(April, 1903) of the Commissioner of Health of Chicago, very careful and 
extensive investigation shows that the large quantity of sewage from 
that city discharged into the Illinois River has entirely disappeared long 
before the latter empties into the Mississippi at a point over 250 miles 
from Chicago. 



SUBSOIL- OR GROUND-WATERS. 161 

owing to the hostility of the saprophytic bacteria of the 
water, or to the presence of certain chemical substances, or 
to other unfavorable conditions, as of temperature and the 
like, these pathogenic organisms do not multiply so rapidly 
as they otherwise would, and are therefore not plentiful 
enough to do much harm. But, as it never can be cer- 
tainly told when a water so contaminated becomes safe for 
use again, and as the population of most towns and their 
consequent sewage production are constantly increasing, 
while the quantity of water in the receiving streams 
remains about the same or is diminishing from year to 
year, the use of such water should be avoided if possible, 
or, if it must be used, it should be purified and made rea- 
sonably safe by the most scientific and efficient means and 
methods available. 

Water from large fresh-water lakes will be of the best 
quality, provided it be taken from a point sufficiently 
distant from the shore to escape all danger of sewage 
contamination. Chicago apparently lowered the mortality 
percentage from typhoid fever from 7.2 in 1891 to .an 
average of 2.1 for the decade 1896-1905, and to 1.1 for 
1908, by preventing as far as possible the discharge of 
sewage into Lake Michigan and by taking the water- 
supply from the lake at a minimum distance of two miles 
instead of 1400 feet from shore as formerly. 1 Water from 
small lakes or ponds, and even from storage reservoirs, may 
become offensive to taste and smell through the growth in 
them of minute vegetable organisms, such as the algse, 
though it is not known that these are prejudicial to health. 

Subsoil- or Ground-waters. Ordinarily, water loses 
much organic matter as it percolates through the soil, but 

1 Oar water-supply extends only 3300 feet out into the lake, but this 
supplies not more than 12,500 persons in the extreme north end of the 
pity, and the, water is sand-filtered, 
II 



162 WATER. 

takes up considerable carbon dioxide from the soil-air, 
which increases its solvent powers so that it may also dis- 
solve some of the mineral constituents of the soil through 
which it passes. When these mineral substances become 
so great in amount as to give the water a decided taste or 
medicinal properties, we call it a mineral water; but 
when the inorganic matter does not render it objection- 
able to the taste or too hard, the water, whether subsoil 
or artesian, will usually be quite safe and usable in so far 
as the mineral matters are concerned. 

Attention has already been called to the pollution of 
the soil. How, then, can the water in passing through it 
lose its organic contents and become pure? Partly by 
mechanical filtration, but mainly through the combined 
action of the saprophytic soil bacteria and the oxygen of 
the soil-air, which rapidly convert the organic impurities, 
both suspended and dissolved, into simpler and harmless 
end-products. The substances of vegetable nature are 
ultimately resolved by these agencies into carbon dioxide, 
water, etc., while those of animal origin and containing 
nitrogen give rise to the various ammonia compounds, or 
may be further oxidized into nitrous and nitric acids and 
their salts, all entirely harmless in the proportions in 
which they are found in the percolating ground-water, 
but all of great value as nutrients for the higher plant- 
life of the soil. 

The rate of percolation has much to do with the com- 
pleteness and perfection of this action, for ample time 
must be had for the organic decompositions to occur. 
Therefore, anything that retards the downward flow of 
water favors its purification, and anything that increases 
its movement decidedly affects for the worse its ultimate 
quality and character. 

The importance of this biologic soil action can scarcely 



PURIFICATION OF GROUND-WATER, 



163 



be overestimated, and the student should endeavor to 
appreciate not only the bearing which it has in the great 
scheme of nature's adaptation of means to ends, but also 
the importance of our utilization of it in the artificial puri- 
fication of our environment and in the disposal of waste 
matters. We must understand, however, that for every 
soil only a definite amount of work can be accomplished 
by the agencies mentioned and under the conditions exist- 
ing at any given time. In other words, there is here also 
a MmU of permissible impurity, and if this limit is exceeded, 

FIG. 32. 




Outcropping of water-table. (HARRINGTON.) 

the conditions become unnatural, the bacterial and chemic 
action is inadequate, and the descending water is not 
thoroughly purified as it percolates through the over- 
charged soil. 

The subsoil-water slowly sinks through the ground until 
at some level or other it reaches an impermeable stratum, 
where it is retained in natural basins or escapes at 
some outcropping of the stratum below the water-level, 
thus forming a spring. (Figs. 32 and 33.) The level of 
the water in these underground reservoirs is constantly 



164 



WATER. 



changing according to the season, rainfall, discharge from 
springs, etc., though ordinarily the variation for any given 
place differs little from year to year. It is from wells 
sunk to these water-bearing strata and from springs that 
water is obtained for the majority of people who do not live 
in towns or cities supplied by water-works. These under- 
ground bodies of water are in constant motion toward one 
or more outlets at more or less distant points, but the cur- 
rents are usually quite sluggish owing to the friction and 
capillary force of the particles of soil through which they 

FIG. 33. 




Representing the difference between shallow and deep wells, and between 
the high-water and low-water level of the ground-water: a, soil and gravel: 
b, clay or rock ; c, c, high-water, and d, d, low-water level. 

pass. For the same reasons the surface of the water is 
not horizontal but curved, the curve being sharpest 
near the outlet, and the difference in level between high 
and low water is least near the outlet ; also, the higher 
the level the greater the fall to the outlet and the greater 
the discharge. (Fig. 33.) 

The outflow from most continuously flowing springs 
represents the percolation through and drainage of such 
a comparatively large area that it is not probable that 
any considerable proportion of this area will be exces- 
sively polluted, nor that the percolate from any and 



WELL- WATER. 



165 



all over-polluted parts of it will be so concentrated and 
charged with harmful impurities that the thoroughly puri- 
fied water from the remainder of the area will not be suffi- 
cient to dilute it sufficiently to eliminate all danger to 
health from its use. Consequently, springs are to be 
ranked among the best and safest sources of natural 
waters, and general experience sustains the judgment. 

But the remarks regarding the purity of spring-water 
do not hold good for water from ordinary shallow wells 
provided they do not pass through an impermeable stratum 
or from springs where the water passes almost directly 




Representing the difference of percolation about cased (d) and uncased 
(e) wells : a, soil and gravel ; b, clay or rock ; c, cesspool. 

from surface to outlet, for in both cases the filtering action 
of the soil and the removal of organic matter by the pro- 
longed action of the saprophytic bacteria are likely to be 
incomplete and imperfect. Likewise, water from springs 
that drain a limited and extensively polluted area may be 
seriously contaminated, and unsafe to use. 

Especially about human dwellings, where wells are com- 
monly located for the sake of convenience, are filth and 



166 WATER. 

pollution likely to be carried into the water, for sewage 
and dirt of almost every kind accumulate in constantly in- 
creasing quantity in the soil about a house, and always tend 
to exceed the limit of permissible impurity. There is also 
the ever-present danger of the water receiving the specific 
germs of disease from the human wastes of the household, 
no matter in what condition the surrounding soil may be. 

Owing to the lessening of lateral resistance the surface- 
water passes rapidly and almost directly into the well 
(unless the wall of the latter be made water-tight to 
almost the full depth), and may carry with it solutions of 
all the impurities polluting the soil about the mouth ; and 
as wells drain a very considerable area Parkes says one, 
in ordinary soils, whose radius is equal to four times the 
depth of the well there are few wells about which such 
an area is not subject to dangerous pollution. (Fig. 34.) 
Moreover, the influence of pumping or other sudden with- 
drawal of water from the well is even more important, 
since it extends a distance from 15 to 160 times the tem- 
porary depression of the water-level, and impurities may 
thus be drawn into the well which ordinarily would tend 
to flow away from it. (Fig. 35.) 

Excepting the bacteria, which pass freely through 
almost all soils when resistance to the water-current is 
markedly diminished, only such portions of the pollution 
as can be dissolved may reach the water in the well ; and 
it is a fact that many waters thus polluted are sparkling 
and clear, with a pleasant taste and no bad odor, so that 
any suspicion as to their real character may be want- 
ing. Moreover, even though specific disease germs be 
absent, there is always danger that the contamination may 
become so concentrated as to produce serious results, and 
this may occur in various ways : (a) the well may be so 



DEEP WATERS. 



167 



deep or the character of the soil such that in ordinary 
weather the liquid passing through the soil is so purified 
that it imparts no harmful properties to the water; but if 
the soil is being continually infiltrated with dangerous im- 
purities, and if at length heavy rains or continued wet 
weather supervene, there may be more and more of these 
impurities dissolved and carried into the well until the 
proportion of harmful matter in the water passes the 
safety-line, and as a result there is marked illness or in- 
creased predisposition to disease among those using the 




Showing depression of water in shallow well caused by pumping: A, well ; 
B, cesspool; C, underground water-curve. (After FIELD and PEGGS.) 

water; or (6) in continued dry weather the ground-water 
may be lessened to such an extent that the impurities that 
were formerly well diluted become sufficiently concentrated 
to cause sickness, even though there be no unusual pollu- 
tion of the soil about the well ; or (c) the water-level in the 
well being suddenly or persistently lowered, a greater area 
is drained and additional collections of sewage may flow 
into the well. (Fig. 35.) 

Deep Watws. Deep wells are those which pass through 
an impermeable stratum, and so do not get their supply 



168 WATER. 

from the subsoil-water. The relative depth of two wells 
is no exact criterion as to their classification, as the shal- 
lower one may really be a " deep " one and the deeper a 
" shallow " one, according to the presence or absence of 
the impermeable stratum. Artesian wells are very deep 
wells, piercing one or more impermeable strata. 

Sometimes the water rises and flows out of the mouth 
of a deep well, in which case the supply is drawn from a 
water-bearing stratum between two impermeable ones, and 

FIG. 36. 




Representing the spontaneous flow of deep or artesian wells, B and c: 
a a, water-level in deep pervious strata, FF; A, intermittent spring at out- 
cropping of F F above impermeable stratum, E E; D, shallow well in upper per- 
vious strata. (WILSON.) 



which has its only outcroppings higher than the top of the 
well. (Fig. 36.) The water accumulates in this natural 
Teservoir above the level of the well-mouth, and is forced 
out when an opening is made through the uppermost im- 
permeable stratum. Deep well-water is apt to be of much 
better quality than that from shallow wells, since it usually 
represents the total percolation from a very' large extent 
of ground surface, in comparison to which the combined 
areas and amount of pollution within its limits are in- 
significant, the possible impurities in the water being 



DEEP WELLS. 169 

consequently reduced by dilution to much below the dan- 
ger-point. It is for the same reason that there is such a 
difference in the quality of spring-water and of that from 
most shallow wells. Though the two waters seem to have 
a common source, one is the composite water of a large 
district, of which the average impurity or contamination 
per unit of surface may be infinitesimal ; the other is 
mainly the special percolate from a limited area, which is, 
for the reasons given, particularly liable to be highly and 
dangerously polluted. 1 

Artesian or deep well-water will also likely be very free 
from organic matters, but possibly heavily charged with 
mineral salts. Should these latter not be present, the 
water will probably be of excellent quality ; though if the 
well be very deep, it may be too warm for immediate use 
as a potable water. 

Frequently well-water, and that most often from shallow 
wells, is the only kind available, especially in country dis- 
tricts. In such cases care must be taken that impurities 
are kept out of the well by all possible means. If this be 
done, water may often be had of excellent quality. The 
area about all wells should be kept clean, and the well 
should be as distant as possible from any source of 
contamination, especially if the latter be a constant 
one. Wells should be walled or cased, shallow wells 
to below the water-level and deep wells to the first 
impermeable stratum if possible, in order to cause the 
water to percolate through as much soil as possible before 
entering the well, in this way checking the rapidity of 



1 Of course, the water in shallow wells, as in others, is being continu- 
ally changed by the onward movement of the underground current; but 
where this is slow in comparison with the percolation from the surface, 
the impurities of the latter will be in excess in the well-water, 



170 WELLS. 

its descent and prolonging the biologic action of the 
top-soil. 1 Wells should also have a properly constructed 
curb, to keep out splashings and drippings of muddy or 
dirty water. 

In this connection Sedgwick says : " Excepting those 
cases in which cracks or fissures in the earth allow direct 
communication between polluting sources and wells of 
drinking water, the author is strongly of the opinion that 
in most cases in which infection exists in wells, the pollut- 
ing material has found its way in from the top." " When 
one reflects on the carelessness with which wells used as 
sources of drinking water are exposed to the access of filth 
from the top, such wells often being only loosely covered 
by planks, it is easy to see that from the boots of work- 
men, or from children playing on the planks, or from 
poultry walking about and carrying infection on their 
feet, pollution may take place." 2 

We must not forget that wells drain a large area. As 
the ground-water has a constant movement in the direc- 
tion of natural outlets, the well should be so located that 
the current flows from it toward any near-by cesspool or 
other source of pollution. The direction of the under- 
ground current can generally be determined by noting 

1 As the saprophytic and nitrifying bacteria are only found normally 
in the first few feet of top-soil, where the conditions are favorable to 
their existence and growth, we cannot expect to have any further action 
by them after the water reaches its underground level and begins to 
move toward its outlets. Nor will there be any filtration in this on- 
ward progress, for that has been accomplished in the upper layers. It 
is for this reason that the filtrate from cesspools and similar pits is not 
organically purified, but is especially obnoxious and dangerous as it 
traverses the soil, for the bottoms of such pits are usually below the bio- 
logic level, and there is also in them a lack of the oxygen necessary to 
maintain the action of the nitrifying bacteria. 

* Principles of Sanitary Science and the Public Health, 1902, p. 351. 



DRAINAGE-AREA OF WELLS. 171 

the location of the nearest spring or water-course, by 
observing the dip of the underlying strata, or by digging 
holes at equal distances about the well and dissolving salt 
or an aniline dye in them in turn, and testing the water 
from the well after a time for the salt or color. If a 
well be much deeper than a neighboring cesspool, it may 
drain from the latter, even in opposition to the ground- 
water current, especially if the water in the well be sud- 
denly lowered. Again, dangerous impurities have been 
carried into wells from long distances through fissures or 
ci'evices in rock. Harrington cites the case of a well which, 
" bored 500 feet into red sandstone, drained, through fis- 
sures, all the shallow wells in the vicinity. These being 
of no use as wells, were then utilized as cesspools, and 
draining again through the fissures, caused the well to 
become so foul that it had to be abandoned." 

The water from the well should be frequently tested for 
chlorides and nitrates, these indicating sewage contamina- 
tion, and this should be done especially after heavy rains 
and also when the water in the well becomes low. The 
taste and odor of the water should also be noted after 
standing for a time or on being heated. Some other 
sources should be sought whenever such tests show con- 
tamination or when there are cases of infectious disease 
near at hand. Boiling the water and filtration are always 
to be recommended whenever there is the least suspicion 
as to impurity or infection. 

Shallow or subsoil wells in thickly settled towns should 
not be used to supply drinking-water or cooking-water, 
as the soil is always more or less saturated with filth and 
sewage, and it is practically impossible in such places to 
locate a well which will not be in constant danger of re- 
ceiving harmful impurities from some source or another. 



172 WATER. 

In an investigation 1 made by the author in 1904 he 
discovered that the incidence of typhoid fever is appar- 
ently greater in districts essentially rural, and not in those 
which include the great cities, many of which latter are 
known to have high death-rates from this disease, and all 
of which have water-supplies which may, if not properly 
cared for, serve as common carriers of infection to their 
enormous populations. As the data from which this 
study was made were taken from the Report on Vital 
Statistics of the U. S. Census of 1900, it must be remem- 
bered that all cities and towns of less than 8,000 popula- 
tion are classified with, and that they collectively make 
up a large, if not the greater, part of the so-called rural 
population. Now, in the smaller towns and villages it is 
more than probable that the inhabitants will be supplied 
from private and shallow wells and cisterns, rather than 
from common sources, such as reservoirs, springs, arte- 
sian wells, or modern filter plants, and, consequently, there 
is continual danger in such communities of the water 
being contaminated by neighboring cess-pools and other 
sources of pollution, this danger rapidly increasing as the 
villages grow in size, for these wells and cess-pools are 
brought closer together, and the entire body of ground- 
water supplying the wells is correspondingly more liable 
to be polluted beyond the limit of safety or to become at 
any time the common carrier of infection. Hence it is 
easy to understand how the so-called rural populations 
actually have, as a rule, a relatively higher sick- and 
death-rate from typhoid fever than do the dwellers in 
large cities ; and it should be equally evident that it will 
be the part of wisdom for small communities to employ 

1 Typhoid Fever in Relation to the. Urban and Rural Population of the 
United States ; American Medicine, April 22, 1905, pp. 649-652. 



WATER-SUPPLY AND TYPHOID FEVER. 173 



FIG. 37. 



10 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 



Pure -Mountain- Springs; 



Hague 

Berlin 

Rotterdam 

Breslau 

Hamburg 

Zurich 

Amsterdam 

London 

Edinburgh 

Warsaw 



Frankfort 

Copenhagen 

Dresden 

Brussels 

Venice 

Dayton 

Paris 



Collecting-pipe; 



Brooklyn 

New York 

Manchester 

Boston 

New Haven 

Glasgow 

Cambridge 

Sydney 

Worcester 



rsj-Water-sheds-protected 



against- Pol-khion; 



Montreal 

Quebec 

Trenton 

Omaha 

Toledo 

New Orleans 

St. Louis 

Paterson 

Minneapolis 



or Riyers-m-which 



be-considered-to-have 



anrshed through-the-agrency-of-T-ime 
|| | I I. | s I \ . \ \ l|| I 
Dilution Sedimentationretc 



Hamilton 
Toronto 
Milwaukee 
Detroit 
Cleveland 
Chicago 
uffalo 



ome 
Denver 

San Francisco 
Wilmington 
Syracuse 
Reading 
Providence 
Hartford 



reams-and-Small-takes 



Public-andj-Private-tyells-irrfopulous 
istrictsr?nd|n'i\< ers h n ' ich are 
' ' nbwn-to[befol)uted-^ith 
Sewag^ and other 



Philadelphia 

Atlanta 

Grand Rapids 

Cincinnati 

Albany 

Troy 

Jersey City 

Pittsburgh 

Lowell 

Camden 

Louisville 

Washington 

Alexandria 

Cairo 



whqre abstracted 
for-use.' 




Showing death-rates from typhoid fever in 1894 in sixty-six cities, grouped 
according to the quality of their drinking-water. (Reproduced with the per- 
mission of the author, Mr. James H. Fuertes, and of the Association of Civil 
Engineers of Cornell University.) 



174 WATER. 

every possible means to secure improved and non-polluted 
water-supplies for the common use of their respective 
populations. 

The decision as to the quality of any water must in each 
case be determined by all the circumstances available 
which relate to it, and these should all be thoroughly in- 
vestigated before rendering an opinion, as some of them 
may counteract the others. However, other things being 
equal, the value of a water will probably be in accord 
with the following table : 

(I. Spring-water, } Very 
Wholesome \ 2. Deep well-water, palatable. 

( 3. Water from unpolluted streams, j Moderately 

Suspicious I 4 ' Stored rain-water, I palatable. 

I 5. Surface-water from cultivated land, 

Dangerous I 6- Sewage-polluted river-water, Y Palatable. 

I 7. Shallow well-water, 

A good potable water should be perfectly clear, free 
from odor or taste, cool, well aerated and, if possible, soft 
or with only a mild degree of hardness. Circumstances 
must determine the amount of dissolved matters permis- 
sible ; what is an excess in one case might not be so in 
another. 

We may also classify waters as follows : 1. Pure and 
wholesome water. 2. Usable water. 3. Suspicious water. 
4. Dangerous water. (See chart on page 173 and table on 
page 223.) Pure waters and usable waters may be used 
without filtration ; those of the third class should be fil- 
tered before distribution, and also at the house before use, 
if possible, and a purer source sought or all sewage- 
pollution prevented. Those of the fourth class should 
not be used at all except when absolutely unavoidable, 
and then only after purification by all the means at 
command. 



DISEASES DUE TO IMPURE WATER. 175 

Inasmuch as most large cities must from necessity fur- 
nish a water of the second or third, and occasionally even 
of the fourth class, such water should be purified before 
distribution as much as possible by storage for a time in 
settling reservoirs and by some effective system of filtra- 
tion, combining these with chemical treatment if necessary. 
As much of the organic matter is oxidized, and many of 
the pathogenic bacteria are destroyed by saprophytes and 
other causes while the water is standing in the settling 
reservoirs, and as properly constructed and well-managed 
filters are even more efficacious to this end, a water origin- 
ally suspicious or worse may often be made usable by the 
above means properly employed. Not only must the 
storage reservoirs and filtering apparatus be kept clean 
and in good working order, but care must also be had 
that the distributing apparatus does not permit soil-air or 
sewer-gas or sewage to be drawn in through leaks in the 
mains at times when the flow is intermittent, and that 
lead pipes are not used for conveying drinking-water if 
the character of the water is such that it acts on that 
metal. 

Diseases Caused by Impure Drinking-water. A 
polluted water may carry the organisms of infectious dis- 
eases, or it may produce or favor the development of dis- 
eases which are not due to specific germs. In addition to 
these, and of at least equal importance from a sanitary 
point of view, is the depressed state of the system that 
the habitual use of impure drinking-water causes, and the 
predisposition to disease that ensues. By the faculty of 
accommodation and through long habit a community may 
become so protected against an impure water as to mani- 
fest no striking symptoms, while strangers may be seri- 
ously affected by it ; but even in such a case the condition 



176 WATER. 

of those habitually using the water will probably be more 
or less depressed and not that of perfect health. 

The non-infectious diseases likely to be caused by im- 
purities in the drinking-water are primarily those affecting 
the alimentary tract, as dyspepsias, diarrhoeas, and other 
disturbances having their origin in severe gastric or intes- 
tinal irritation. So, also, impure water, even though it 
docs not contain the actual germs, may have much to do 
in bringing on an attack of typhoid fever or specific dys- 
entery by so irritating the intestine as to make it especially 
receptive to the cause of the disease when introduced from 
another source. 

Large quantities of the sulphates of calcium and mag- 
nesium are thought to have special influence in causing 
dyspepsias, with loss of appetite, pain at the epigastrium, 
etc. An excess of iron in water is also prone to produce con- 
stipation, headache, loss of appetite, and malaise. Goitre 
and the formation of vesical calculi are each supposed 
to be due to mineral or inorganic impurities, though 
the true relation of impure drinking-water to these dis- 
eases is still unsettled. " It has long been a popular 
opinion that drinking lime-waters gives rise to calculi of 
the oxalate and phosphate of calcium," and the " opinion 
that impure water is the cause of goitre is as old as Hip- 
pocrates and Aristotle." Further study of the principles 
underlying the treatment of goitre with glandular extracts 
may make it easier to determine whether impure water 
has a causative influence in the production of this disease. 

Diarrhoea may be caused by any of the following im- 
purities in water : suspended substances of any kind, but 
especially those of fecal origin ; dissolved animal, vege- 
table, or mineral matters, and fetid gases. The diarrhoea 



TRANSMISSION OF INFECTION BY WATER. 177 

produced by any of these contaminants may be so severe 
as to simulate true dysentery and cause doubt as to the 
diagnosis. 

Certain metals may be taken up from the earth's strata, 
or from the lining of cisterns, etc., and may produce their 
characteristic toxic symptoms in the system. Lead is one 
of these metals, and it will be well to note here the waters 
that are especially apt to take up this metal. Pure waters 
and those containing much oxygen act powerfully on lead, 
as do those containing organic nitrates and nitrites, espe- 
cially ammonium nitrate. Waters containing carbon di- 
oxide and the salts of calcium and magnesium and those 
free from absorbed gases act least on lead, and carbon 
dioxide seems even to protect lead by forming an insolu- 
ble carbonate on leaden surfaces, but water containing car- 
bon dioxide may take up lead for a time from new pipes 
until the insoluble carbonate is deposited within them. It 
has also been shown that in some cases wherein cold water 
does not act upon the metal hot water will dissolve a small 
but appreciable quantity of it. Copper, zinc, and arsenic 
are also metals that may be taken up by certain waters, 
and that may cause serious results from the use of the 
latter. Lead is more easily dissolved if other metals are 
in contact with it, probably owing to electrolytic action. 
Lead should not be used for pipes nor to line cisterns 
unless suitable tests show that the water does not affect 
it, nor should any water be used in which the tests show 
more than one-thirtieth of a grain of lead per gallon. 

Of the infectious diseases, germs of typhoid fever, 

cholera, and dysentery are usually carried into the system 

by the drinking-water, while the same is often true of 

scarlet fever, diphtheria, and kindred diseases, and possi- 

12 



178 WATER. 

bly of malaria. 1 But, as with the impurities causing non- 
infectious disturbances, water containing disease germs 
may sometimes be used for a long time by those accus- 
tomed to it without the development of the specific mal- 
ady, and it may only be after the system is weakened by 
excesses or other predisposing conditions that the disease 
manifests itself; or it may happen that only strangers and 
non-acclimated inhabitants incur the disease. It has been 
suggested that this immunity is probably brought about 
by the very gradual introduction into the body of the dis- 
ease germs and their poisons, so that old residents are not 
susceptible to the small numbers or quantities of these 
which are sufficient to give rise to the symptoms of the 
particular diseases in newcomers. 

It is sometimes difficult to determine just when or how 
a water-supply has been infected with pathogenic organ- 
isms, but recently it has been shown that a person who 
has recovered from a transmissible malady may continue 
to carry about in his body and excrete the disease germs 
for a long time. Thus the bacteria of typhoid fever 
may be found in the urinary or fecal excretions of a con- 
siderable proportion of those who have had that disease 

1 For a long time the belief that malaria is very frequently, if not 
most often, transmitted by the drinking-water, was held by many 
sanitarians, and there has seemed to be much circumstantial evidence to 
substantiate this opinion. Comparatively recently, however, careful 
scientific investigation has proved that this disease can be and usually is 
due to direct inoculation by at least one species of mosquito, which acts 
as an intermediary host in the life cycle or development of the malarial 
organism (plasmodium malarise), and some have gone so far as to say that 
the disease is probably only transmitted in this way. While admitting 
the force of these arguments and evidence, and accepting the mosquito 
theory, the writer, for the present at least, is not convinced that the 
drinking-water cannot and does not also sometimes serve as a means of 
transmitting the disease, either by acting as a carrier of the infected 
ova, larvae, or dead bodies of mosquitoes, or by directly transferring the 
malarial organisms from what has long been considered to be their 
natural habitat swamps and marshes. 



TRANSMISSION OF INFECTION BY WATER. 179 



for months or even years thereafter, many such cases 
having been reported by numerous investigators. It is, 
therefore, easy to comprehend how such a person, going 
from place to place, might infect not one, but many 
sources of water-supply. 

The following table gives data relating to some notable 
epidemics of typhoid fever : 



Location. 


Date. 


Population. 


Cases. 


Deaths. 


Lausen, Switzerland 


1872 


780 


144 




Caterham, England . 
Plymouth Pa 


1879 
1885 


5,800 
8000 


352 
1 104 


21 
114 


Ithaca N Y 


1903 


13000 


1 3UO 


78 


Butler Pa 


1903 and 1904 


18000 


1 348 


111 













Many instances have been recorded which practically 
prove the transmissibility of infectious diseases by means 
of drinking-water, and of these, reference may be made 
to the epidemics of typhoid fever at Lausen l in Switzer- 
land, at Plymouth, Pa., 2 Butler, Pa., and Ithaca, N. Y.; 
of malaria on board the transport ship " Argo " ; 3 and 
of cholera in London. 4 The writer himself had an oppor- 
tunity of investigating an epidemic of typhoid fever in a 
small village in North Carolina. 5 In this there were 
only four or five in about sixty cases which were not un- 
doubtedly due to contamination of the subsoil-water by 
the infected excreta from the first case ; and of four of 
the exceptions (which were in one family), the first was 
in all probability infected by using the water while in 
attendance upon sick neighbors, and the others by direct 
contagion from the first. It was also shown that, with 
the exception of these four, the cases all developed 

1 Pepper's System of Medicine, vol. i., p. 250. 

2 Roh6's Text-book of Hygiene, 2d edition, p. 63. 

8 Parkes' Hygiene, 8th edition, p. 64, and Kohe', p. 60. 

*Kobe, p. 64. 6 University Medical Magazine, May, 1892. 



180 WATER. 

directly along the lines of natural drainage leading from 
the residence of the original case a boy, who came to the 
village sick with the disease and that the latest cases to 
develop were those most remote from the starting-point 
of the infection. 

Moreover, in most large cities of this and other countries 
the typhoid fever death-rate is accepted as the direct index 
of the character of the water-supply, and it seems to be a 
fact almost without exception that any marked improve- 
ment in the latter will be followed by an immediate and 
positive reduction in the former. (See chart on page 1 73.) 
The same may also be said to hold good in regard to diar- 
rhceal diseases ; while in eastern North Carolina there has 
been a marked reduction in the prevalence of so-called 
malarial fevers, which are probably para-typhoid in 
reality, as a result of the efforts of the State Board of 
Health to persuade the people to substitute rain-water 
or deep well-water for the subsoil-water which was almost 
universally used a few years ago. 1 

The ova of certain parasites, such as tapeworms or 
round-worms, may often be taken into the system with 
the drinking-water, and these upon developing may cause 
disturbances that may require more than the slight atten- 
tion usually given to them. Any attack of convulsions 
in a child or other severe manifestation of reflex action 
should lead to the inquiry as to whether these parasites 
may not be present, and whether the water-supply has not 
been the source of invasion. 

It is now known that the parasite of ankylostomiasis 
or hook-worm disease may also be carried by and intro- 
duced into the human body by the drinking water. 

i According to Hazen, for every death from typhoid fever avoided by 
the purification of a polluted water supply two or three deaths are 
avoided from other causes. This statement, Sedgwick says, he has been 
able to confirm and to establish as conservative. 



PARASITIC DISEASES. 181 

Regarding the foregoing remarks, Parkes makes the 
following statements : " 1. An epidemic of diarrhoea in a 
community is almost always owing to either impure air, 
impure water, or bad food. If it affects a number of 
persons suddenly, it is probably owing to one of the last 
two causes, and if it extends over many families, almost 
certainly to water. But as the cause of the impurity may 
be transient, it is not easy to find experimental proof. 
2. Diarrhoea or dysentery constantly affecting a com- 
munity, or returning periodically at certain times of the 
year, is far more likely to be produced by bad water than 
by any other cause. 3. A very sudden and localized 
outbreak of typhoid fever or cholera is almost certainly 
owing to the introduction of the poison by water. 4. The 
same fact holds good in malarial fevers, and, especially if 
the cases are very grave, a possible introduction by water 
should be inquired into. 5. The introduction of the ova 
of certain entozoa by means of water is proved in some 
places, probable in others. 6. Although it is not at pres- 
ent possible to assign to every impurity in water its exact 
share in the production of disease, or to prove the precise 
influence on public health of water which is not extremely 
impure, it appears certain that the health of a community 
always improves when an abundant and pure water-supply 
is given ; and, apart from this actual evidence, we are 
entitled to conclude from other considerations that abun- 
dant and good water is a prime sanitary necessity." The 
statistics already given and those to come in later pages 
are confirmatory of the correctness of this last assertion, 
and sanitary authorities now realize that, in addition to 
the mortality from typhoid fever, the main cause of an 
increase in the death-rate from diarrhosal diseases is more 
often to be fairly attributed to a contaminated water-supply 



182 WATER. 

than to improper food or untoward temperatures. Even 
with respect to cholera infantum (which is generally sup- 
posed to be principally due to the influence of excessive 
heat upon the infant and its food) a number of epidemics 
show a closer relation to impure water-supply than to tem- 
peratu re-changes . 

The Purification of Water. Impurities in water may 
be either solid matters in suspension or dissolved sub- 
stances, and may be organic or inorganic. Any turbidity 
is due to solid particles, and water free from these is clear, 
though it may be colored more or less deeply by dis- 
solved matters. But a clear water may contain such 
solid bodies as bacteria, ova of parasites, etc., which are 
too minute to be seen with the naked eye. Whether 
harmful or not, all impurities should be removed in so 
far as is possible from all supplies of drinking-water. 
This may be done to a considerable extent with large 
volumes of water before distribution to consumers, and 
should always be attended to by the latter if the water 
is not already clean and within the limits of safety when 
they receive it. In fact, a large city at the present time 
can scarcely have a more important subject for considera- 
tion than that of obtaining the purest possible water-supply 
for its people. There will always be a tendency among 
many to allow matters to continue as they are or as they 
have been in the past, and a decided objection by others 
to incurring additional expense for what may seem to them 
only esthetic reasons ; but, no matter what may be the 
cost of providing a reasonable supply of pure water for 
any large city's personal and domestic uses, a very little 
consideration will show that such expenditure is true 
economy from solely a financial point of view, even 
though we ignore the misery and sorrow of the sickness 



PURIFICATION OF WATER. 



183 



and deaths that are due to the use of a polluted 
water. 

As has been stated by the excellent authority quoted 
above, " the health of a community always improves 
when an abundant and pure water-supply is given. 
The death of 3400 persons from cholera followed the 
temporary supply of unfiltered water by the East London 
Water Company in 1866, while the rest of London re- 

FIG. 38. 



ALTON A 
tide of the boundary 






HAMBURG 
side of the boundary 




Portion of the boundary line between Hamburg and Altona. The dots 
indicate cases of cholera. (HARRINGTON.) 

mained nearly free from the disease ;" and in 1892 "Ham- 
burg lost 8605 citizens from the same disease alone," 
regarding which " the health authorities found that the 
principal cause of this epidemic was the polluted water- 
supply," 1 while the neighboring city of Altona, which used 
filtered water, was comparatively free from the disease. 
Again, after the scourge of typhoid fever in Ply- 

1 Hazen, Filtration of Public Water-supplies, 1895. 



184 WATER. 

mouth, Pa., in 1885, when there were 1104 cases and 
114 deaths within a few weeks in a population of 8000 
as a result of pollution of the water-supply by a single 
person, great cure was taken to determine the exact cost 
of the " visitation " as some would term it. It was found 
that the actual expenditure for the care of the sick 
was $67,100.17; loss of wages by those recovering, 
$30,020.08 ; a total of $97,1 20.25, to which should be 
added a number of times the $18,419.52 that those who 
died were earning per annum when taken sick. How 
much cheaper in comparison would a protecting filter- 
plant have been ! But overlooking special epidemics, and 
considering the average annual typhoid death-rates of our 
cities, we find that experience both here and abroad shows 
that with a pure water-supply a maximum death-rate 
from this disease is 25 per 100,000, and that any city 
may reasonably expect to secure even a lower rate by 
observing proper precautions. And yet only eight cities 
of over 50,000 population whose mortality returns were 
given in the United States Census Reports of 1890 had 
so low a figure. On the other hand, there were five cities 
of over (and two of less than) 50,000 that had 100 or 
more deaths per 100,000, all seven using unfiltered river- 
water. The remaining forty-one of those above 50,000 
had rates varying from 26 to 98. Counting each death 
as a loss to the community of $5000 not an excessive 
estimate according to the finding of courts in cases of 
death by accident, and, inasmuch as most typhoid cases 
occur during the working age of from fifteen to fifty years 
" the saving due to filtration " on the unnecessary deaths 
from typhoid fever " would have paid for the entire cost 
of filters in the first year they were in use " in the first 



FINANCIAL LOSS DUE TO DISEASE. 185 

seven of these cities ; " in sixteen others, with an aggre- 
gate population of 3,717,560, filtration would have paid 
for itself in two years or less," and in " eighteen others 
with an aggregate of 3,238,617, filtration would have 
saved seven or more lives per 100,000 annually, and 
would have more than paid for the interest and cost of 
operating the filters." l 

Lawrence, Mass., with a population of 44,654 in 1890, 
built a filter at a cost of $67,000, and saved enough lives, 
at $5000 per head, to pay for it within the first four 
months that it was in use, and had a reduction of almost 
60 per cent, in the typhoid death-rate within a year. 
In Chicago, when the similarly estimated loss from 
typhoid deaths in the city and suburbs amounted to over 
$10,000,000 in 1891, the abandoning of a shore inlet near 
the mouth of the sewage-polluted Chicago River in 1892 
resulted in a reduction of 60 per cent, in the typhoid 
mortality during the following year. Albany, N. Y., is 
also said to have reduced the death-rate from this disease 
70 per cent, since the installation of its filter-plant. 

But it is only when one realizes that an increase in the 
mortality from any cause of only 1 in 1000 of population 
means 1000 additional deaths per annum in a city of a 
1,000,000, that he can appreciate the meaning and the 
loss in capitalization to the municipality of the exceedingly 
high typhoid mortality that obtains in some of our large 
cities. At the valuation of $5000 per capita, and consid- 
ering only the excess above the maximum typhoid mor- 
tality of a pure-water city, this death-loss in one city alone 
for several years has amounted to upward of $500,000 
annually, while in another municipality, with an average 
1 Hazen, Filtration of Public Water-supplies. 



186 WATER. 

population of about one-third of a million, the excessive 
typhoid deaths above a 25-per-100,000 rate in five years 
(1900-1904) amounted to the astounding total of 1888, 
representing in capitalization at the above life valuation 
the sum of $9,440,000. Nor must it be forgotten that 
these figures do not include the cost of medical attention 
and nursing for the thousands who were sick, nor the loss 
of time and employment by those who recovered, nor do 
they consider the financial loss due to sickness and deaths 
from diseases other than typhoid fever that may be fairly 
attributed to polluted water-supplies. Can anyone doubt 
where true municipal economy lies, and is there not 
abundant opportunity for sanitary education and work in 
this direction alone for many years to come ? l 

Purification before distribution may be by either or all 
of three methods : subsidence, chemical treatment, and 
filtration. 

Subsidence. The first method consists in allowing 
the water to stand in large reservoirs until the greater 
part of the suspended matters have fallen to the bottom. 
If sufficient time be given, much of the organic matter, 
whether solid or dissolved, will be decomposed or reduced 
to simpler compounds by the action of the sunlight, oxy- 

1 According to the special Mortality Eeport of the U. S. Census Office 
for 1900-1904, the deaths from typhoid fever in the " registration area " 
in the five years numbered 53,857, of which 41,078 were in cities, and 
25,949 in cities of 100,000 population or over; moreover, 50 cities of 
less than 100,000 population had rates of 100 per 100,000 in one 
or more years of the five. The typhoid death-rate for the entire " reg- 
istration area" dropped from 35.9 per 100,000 in 1900 to 25.3 in 1908, and 
the average for the half-decade (1904-1908) was 29.54. This is higher 
than that of any European countries except Italy, Hungary, and Spain, 
the rate for England and Wales for 1905 being 8.9 ; for Germany, 6.3, and 
for Norway, 3.8 per 100,000. 



PURIFICATION IN RESERVOIRS. 187 

gen, animalculse, saprophytes, etc. Most of the bacteria 
also, especially the pathogenic species, will "disappear 
either by sedimentation, by death from lack of favorable 
conditions, or on account of the germicidal effect of the 
sunlight. Consequently, a water originally quite impure 
may be much improved by this method alone, while if it 
is used in conjunction with and preliminary to filtration it 
will be additionally advantageous in that it reduces the 
cost of the latter by lessening the frequency and expense 
of cleaning the filters. 

What the capacity of the reservoirs and the time of 
storage should be, depend on circumstances. If it is the 
only method of purification employed, and especially if 
the water is very foul, the longer the time of storage the 
better. Again, if the source of supply is variable in out- 
put or if it is liable to excessive pollution for limited 
periods, the capacity should be such, if possible, that 
water need not be collected during the emergency. On 
the other hand, if the water is to be subsequently filtered, 
the capacity of the reservoirs and time of storage need not 
be so great. Most German authorities on filtration hold 
that preliminary sedimentation for twenty-four hours or 
even less is sufficient, most of the solid matters being pre- 
cipitated within that time, if at all, and the filters being 
relied upon to remove the remainder, especially the finer 
particles and the bacteria. The English practice is to store 
the water for a longer time, though local causes related 
to the source of supply are the reason for this. Thus the 
Lea and Thames, from which the London companies take 
much of their water, are subject to extra pollution in 
times of flood, which are usually of short duration, and a 
sufficient reserve for such periods is of obvious value. 



188 WATER. 

All storage reservoirs should, of course, be kept free 
from extraneous contamination, and should be cleaned 
from time to time. This necessitates an arrangement in 
pairs or groups, or a partitioning of large reservoirs, so 
that one part may be cleansed without putting the rest out 
of service. Weeds should be destroyed, as they sometimes 
give an unpleasant taste to the water. The water may also 
have a bad taste or odor from algae and other species of 
minute plants which especially favor a pure water ex- 
posed to sunshine. They are not known to be harmful, 
but it may be necessary to cover the reservoirs to get rid 
of them and their unpleasant properties. 

Chemical Treatment. Where a water is very hard 
or contains an excess of mineral matter it is frequently of 
advantage to treat it chemically. If the hardness is 
due to calcium bicarbonate in excess, it may be re- 
moved by the addition of a solution of calcium hydroxide 
to the water, insoluble calcium carbonate being formed 
and precipitated. The change is represented by the 
equation : 

CaH 2 (CO s ) 2 +Ca(OH) s =:2CaCO3+2H. 1 O. 

Clark's process, based on this reaction, is as follows : 
About fourteen or fifteen hundred-weight of lime is 
allowed to each million gallons of water, the actual quan- 
tity of lime depending on the amount of bicarbonate in 
the water. The lime is slaked in a tank into which the 
water to be treated flows ; the mixture is well stirred and 
then allowed to stand for twelve hours, when the superna- 
tant water is drawn off, the tank cleaned, and the process 
repeated. The water is not only softened in this way, but 
the precipitate also usually carries down with it much 



CHEMICAL TREATMENT OF WATER. 189 

of the solid impurities and organic matters in the water. 
This process is extensively used in England, where much 
of the available water is derived from the underlying 
chalk-beds, and thus has a superabundance of the bicar- 
bonate ; but the writer is unaware that it finds any general 
application in this country, though it might be an advisa- 
ble method of treatment in certain of our limestone dis- 
tricts. 

If alum (aluminum sulphate) be added to an impure 
water, a decomposition of the salt occurs, the acid portion 
combining with the bases in the water and forming a 
flocculent precipitate of insoluble basic sulphates and 
aluminum hydroxide, which entangles in it and carries 
down the suspended impurities in the water, beside 
removing much of the dissolved organic and coloring 
matters. Moreover, careful experiments have shown that 
the addition of only about one grain of alum per gallon, 
followed by thorough agitation and subsequent settling 
for twenty-four hours, will almost invariably give a water 
free from germs and one that will tend to remain sterile 
for a considerable time ; this possibly being due to re- 
moval of the food-supply of the bacteria. 1 

The use of alum is especially advantageous when a 
water contains a very fine silt or the like in suspension, 
and which is not removed by subsidence even after a con- 
siderable time, ft is also to be used in conjunction with 
or preliminary to mechanical filtration, which latter, at the 
usual rate of operation, is oftentimes practically depend- 
ent upon alum for the furnishing of a clear safe water. 
Comparatively little alum is needed, .even with a very 

1 V. and A. Babes, Centralblatt fur Bakteriologie und Parasitenkunde, 
1892, vol. xii., No. 45. 



190 WATER. 

dirty water usually not more than one or two grains 
per gallon, and if the supply is practically adjusted to 
the condition of the water, as it should be, the extremely 
minute quantity of free alum that may sometimes pass 
through the filters is harmless and unimportant. 

Should the water be lacking in sufficient bases, which, 
however, is extremely improbable, it might contain when 
filtered a very little free acid, which can be readily neu- 
tralized by the addition of a correspondingly small quan- 
tity of sodium hydroxide or carbonate, the resulting salt 
affecting neither the healthfullness nor the palatability of 
the water. It has been suggested that the alum be first 
decomposed by the addition of sodium hydroxide, then 
washed free from the resulting sodium sulphate and the 
flocculent aluminum hydroxide added to the water, thus 
avoiding the chance of there being either free alum or 
acid in the cleared water ; but experiments show that the 
results are not so good as when alum alone is used. 

Regarding the danger from the use of water purified 
by the addition of alum, Hazen says : " Although alum 
in large quantities is undoubtedly injurious to health, it is 
neither a violent nor a cumulative poison ; and the propo- 
sition that one part of alumina in a million parts of water 
is injurious to health must be regarded as conjecture rather 
than as a matter of proof or even of probability." 

The Anderson process, which consists in agitation of 
the water with metallic iron before filtration, has been 
employed at Antwerp and elsewhere ; but it is not clear 
that with large quantities of water better results are ob- 
tained than by simple filtration. The idea is that some 
of the iron is converted into soluble ferrous carbonate, 
which then oxidizes to insoluble ferric hydroxide and 
carries down with it the suspended and many dissolved 



FILTRATION. 191 

impurities, and thus facilitates their removal by sedimen- 
tation and nitration. The difficulty in using this process 
on a large scale seems to be that the carbonate is not 
formed quickly enough, and also that too much of the 
iron may remain in solution even after filtration. 

Filtration. For the purification of large quantities of 
water, such as are needed for great cities, there can be no 
question that sand filtration is, in the majority of cases, 
the most available, satisfactory, and efficient method, 
though it may often be advantageously preceded by sedi- 
mentation or by chemical treatment, as already described. 
The former especially, by removing much of the suspended 
matter, will prolong the use of the filters between clean- 
ings and thus materially lessen the cost of maintenance ; 
while the latter may greatly improve the chemical quality 
of the filtered water. 

Municipal filters of the type to be described are as yet 
not widely nor sufficiently well known in this country, but 
they have been used abroad with increasingly good results 
for upward of half a century, and they now furnish the 
daily supply of water to more than twenty millions of 
people. However, we may take credit in the knowledge 
that the most thorough and scientific investigation of their 
action and efficiency has been made on this side of the 
Atlantic, under the auspices of the Massachusetts State 
Board of Health, and that it is to this body that we are 
indebted for much of the positive information that we 
now have concerning them. 

The limitations of this work do not permit a full dis- 
cussion of the principles or merits of such filters, but the 
following details are given that the reader may appreciate 
the simplicity of their construction and the efficiency of 
their work, Those desiring more extended information 



192 



WATER. 



are referred to the Massachusetts reports that discuss this 
subject, and to the excellent work of Hazen, already 
mentioned, 1 from which many of the accompanying state- 
ments and illustrations have been taken. 

Almost without exception these niters now consist of a 
layer of clean sand of a certain degree of fineness spread 
upon a layer of gravel in a carefully prepared basin, the 
whole being under-drained and proper arrangements made 



FIG. 39. 



Supply to Fat 




Supply to JVtert 

Plan of filter-beds at Albany, N. Y. 

for the controlling of the depth of water upon the sur- 
face, rate of flow of the filtrate, cleaning of filters, etc. 
Such filters act primarily as strainers, to remove the 
solid impurities from the water, but their efficiency is 
much increased by the sediment that is retained upon 
the surface of the sand and that forms a filter or 
"blanket" much finer than the latter and is capable of 
mechanically preventing the passage of most of the 

1 Filtration of Public Water-supplies. 



FUNCTIONS OF SEDIMENT-LAYER. 



193 



bacteria always present in a surface-water. Moreover, this 
removal of the bacteria is often largely due to the organ- 
isms themselves in the sediment-layer, because by forming 
a felt-like growth therein they not only increase the fine- 
ness of the strainer, but by acting as saprophytes they 
also decompose much of the organic matter and even kill 
the pathogenic bacteria. However, it now seems probable 
that for continuous filters the action is sometimes mainly 
mechanical, consisting in the removal of suspended mat- 
ters and bacteria, and but slightly affecting the dissolved 
organic matters. On the other hand, in intermittent fil- 
tration, where the conditions more nearly resemble those 

FIG. 40. 




General arrangement of filter-plant. (HAZEN.) 



in the natural soil and where the filters are periodically 
aerated, the straining action is less perfect on account of 
the greater rate of filtration necessary, but the nitrifica- 
tion and destruction of organic matter due to the action 
of the saprophytes and oxygen are greater. Intermittent 
filters, therefore, will probably prove to be the better for 
the purification of sewage or a very impure water, though 
usually their efficiency in removing bacteria seems to be 
inferior to that of continuous filters. 

Where a water contains a very fine sediment or silt in 
large quantities, the sand bed may be clogged and choked 
in a few hours and before there is time for the formation 
J3 



194 WATER. 

of the bacterial film mentioned above, and the filtration 
must be more mechanical. For example, at New Orleans, 
where the Mississippi River contains an enormous amount 
of a silt so fine that much of it is submicroscopic and 
many of the particles even smaller than bacteria, the 
water is pumped from the river to a sedimentation basin 
capable of holding twenty-four hours' supply, through 
which it passes slowly, leaving the coarser and heavier 
sediment; then to a mixing basin, where alum is added 
as a coagulant to an extent not exceeding six grains per 
gallon, and then to the sand filter-beds. The " blanket " 
is thus formed by the coagulum due to the alum which 
commingles with and holds the silt, preventing the lat- 
ter from entering and choking the filter. The filter-beds 
are cleaned daily or oftener by forcing from below first a 
liberal washing of filtered water and then a supply of air. 
The cost of this treatment is about $600 per day for a 
supply of 40,000,000 gallons. 

The location of the filter-beds with respect to the 
source of supply and the storage reservoirs will depend 
largely on local conditions, cost of pumping, etc. Settling 
basins are almost essential where the water to be fil- 
tered is very turbid, even if only at intervals. Refer- 
ence has already been made to the difference of opinion 
between English and Continental authorities regarding 
the size of these settling basins. As the filtration does 
not remove hardness due to dissolved minerals, it may 
also be advisable to use the Clark process previous to 
sedimentation and filtration. Part of the color due to 
peat or vegetable matters is removed by ordinary filtra- 
tion, and still more may sometimes be destroyed by the 
previous addition of alum, but such preliminary treatment 
is unusual. Where the water comes from a lake or from 






CONSTRUCTION OF FILTER-BEDS. 



195 



a river with a slow current, settling basins are, of course, 
unnecessary. 

Inasmuch as it is needful to govern the depth of the 
water upon the filter-beds according to the rate of flow 
desired, the thickness and resistance of sand, etc., and to 
prevent disturbance of the sand and sediment layer by 
the force of the entering current, some method of regu- 
lating the inflow is required. The accompanying illus- 
tration shows a comparatively simple arrangement for 
this purpose. (Fig. 41.) 

FIG. 41. 




n 12345 C Meters 

5 10 IS 20 F.it 

Regulation of inflow used at Hamburg. (HAZEN.) 

The total area of the filter-beds will depend upon the 
amount of water supplied, the rate of filtration, and the 
proportion of area out of use while being cleaned. The 
total area is to be divided into beds, varying in number 
according to circumstances, so that one or more of these 
beds may be cleaned while the rest are in use. Large 
beds decrease the cost per acre on account of less masonry, 
etc., being needed, but it may be more difficult to main- 
tain an even action over large areas. Evenness of action 



196 



WATER. 



is, however, largely governed by the size and arrangement 

of the under-drains. 

FIG. 42. 




Interior of a covered filter ready for use. 

The walls and bottoms of filter-beds should be made 
water-tight, that there may be no waste of the filtered 

FIG. 43. 










Sectional plan of a covered filter. 



water on the one hand, nor any ingress of foul soil-water 
on the other. The form of the filter-bed is immaterial, 






MATERIALS FOE FILTER-BEDS. 197 

provided evenness of work over the whole area is not im- 
paired. Where the mean January temperature is below 
the freezing-point the beds should be covered, as the for- 
mation of ice upon them seriously impairs their efficiency, 
and as, moreover, a number of epidemics of typhoid fever 
and certain intestinal diseases seem to be directly traceable 
to ice-formation. This may have been on account of the 
overtaxing of the filters through increased difficulty in 
working, or because the sediment layer and the sand were 
disturbed in the removal of the ice. 

As already stated, the materials used practically every- 
where are clean sand and gravel, and the sharper the 
sand-grains the better. At the Lawrence Experiment 
Station of the Massachusetts State Board of Health " the 
size of a sand-grain is uniformly taken as the diameter of 
a sphere of equal volume, regardless of its shape." More- 
over, as it is " the finest portion which mainly determines 
the character of sand for filtration," the effective size is 
taken to be " the size of a grain such that 10 per cent, by 
weight of the particles are smaller and 90 per cent, are 
larger than itself." As uniformity of grain is also im- 
portant, the uniformity coefficient is " the ratio of the size 
of grain which has 60 per cent, of the sample finer than 
itself to the size which has 10 per cent, finer than itself." 
Obviously, the velocity of water through a layer of sand 
will depend upon the effective size of the grain, the thick- 
ness of the layer through which the water passes, and the 
loss of head due to the frictional resistance of the sand. 
A rise in temperature causes a progressive increase in 
velocity. 

The effective sizes of sand-grain in use in most of the 
foreign filters average from 0.31 to 0.40 mm. In gen- 
eral, it may be said that the finer the sand the better is 



198 WATER. 

the quality of the normal filtrate and the less the danger 
of an unsafe effluent in case the sediment layer on top of 
the sand is broken ; but, on the other hand, cost of filtra- 
tion increases with the gmallness of sand-grain, since the 
filters must be cleaned oftener and fine sands are harder 
to wash, as well as because the velocity of flow is slower 
through fine sands. All things considered, the best results 
will probably be obtained with a sand having a uniformity 
coefficient of not more than 3 -the lower the better and 
an effective size of from 0.20 to 0.35 mm., the latter 
depending largely upon the character and clearness of 
the water to be filtered. 

The thickness of the sand layer should be such that it 
may be scraped a number of times before becoming so 
thin as to require replacing. The German Imperial Board 
of Health requires a thickness of at least twelve inches 
after the last scraping ; while the original thickness should 
be from twenty-four to forty-eight inches, the thicker the 
better, provided the cost of the filter be not made too 
great and the rate of filtration be not too much dimin- 
ished. The sand should be of the same degree of fine- 
ness throughout. 

As for the gravel beneath the sand, there is no reason 
why it should be of excessive thickness. A depth of one 
foot is probably sufficient, provided the stones are of 
varying size, so arranged that the sand above will not 
work into and through the interstices, and that the water 
may freely enter the under-drains at low velocity. The 
loss of head in water flowing through a thin layer of 
gravel properly placed is comparatively slight. Foreign 
filters do have a gravel layer of two feet or more in thick- 
ness, as a rule, but careful experiments at Lawrence, 
Mass., show that this depth is unnecessary, provided that 



UNDER-DRA1NS IN FILTER-BEDS. 199 

the gravel is properly laid as indicated, and that the 
under-drains are not too far apart. 

The under-drains should be of such size and so con- 
structed that the frictional resistance which they offer to 
the flow of the water is only a small percentage of that of 
the clean sand, and that the rate of filtration is the same 
over the whole area of the filter. There is usually a main 
drain along the middle of the filter-floor with smaller par- 
allel lateral drains leading into it at regular intervals. 
The drains may be made of brick with open joints, or, 
for the laterals, of tile, which is usually cheaper. Care 
must always be had that the openings are sufficient in 
number and size to admit the water freely. 

The area drained should vary from about 300 square 
feet for a 4-iuch lateral drain to 4400 square feet for a 
12-inch main, the velocity of flow in these being respec- 
tively 0.30 and 0.51 foot per second ; while larger drains 
should have a cross-section of at least one-six-thousandth 
of the drained area. The European custom of ventilat- 
ing drains by means of pipes passing up through the sand 
and water above is not to be commended, since such ven- 
tilation apparatus is unnecessary, increases the cost of the 
filters, and, what is worse, may allow impurities to con- 
taminate the filtered water in the under-drains. 

Recently it has been suggested that the filter-beds be 
constructed directly over the storage reservoirs for the 
filtered water, the beds being supported on suitable steel 
columns resting on concrete foundations in the bottom of 
the reservoirs. The bottom layer of the filter, composed 
of gravel or broken stone, would rest on steel tubes or 
bars several feet above the level of the water in the reser- 
voir, thus allowing the filtrate to be aerated as it falls 
through the intervening space. Theoretically, it would 



200 



WATER. 



seem that the plan is a good one, and actual results indi- 
cate that it practically is so. Some of the advantages are 
the absence of under-drains and loss of the resistance 
factor due to them, the aeration of the filtrate as indi- 
cated, and also the practically continuous aeration of the 
filter-bed itself, thus enabling the saprophytic bacteria in 
the upper layers to carry on their work of oxidizing and 
nitrifying the organic impurities of the water. One 

FIG. 44. 




Simplest form of regulating outflow from filter-beds. Stralau filters at 
Berlin. (HAZEN.) 

serious objection to such a filter is that an accidental over- 
flow would contaminate at once all the filtered water in 
the storage reservoir. 

Although it has been the custom to keep the depth of 
water upon the filter-beds in excess of the loss of head, 
this is not essential. On foreign filters the usual depth is 
from 36 to 52 inches, though less than this might suffice 
in many instances. The necessity of regulating the inflow 
and outflow and of maintaining a constant level must not 
be overlooked if uniform results are desired. 

Summarizing the preceding statements, the loss of head 




RATE OF FILTRATION. 201 

and rate of filtration will depend upon the depth of water 
on the filters, the thickness of the sand layer, size of 
sand-grains, resistance of under-drains, temperature, etc., 
and all these will likewise affect both the cost and the 
efficiency of the filtration. 

Where the water is taken directly from a river, or if 
the opportunity for sedimentation has been brief, 2,000,000 
gallons per acre per day will probably be a safe rate of 
filtration to maintain continuously, though with a clear 
water or in emergencies a rate one-half greater will very 
likely not materially alter the quality of the filtered water 
or increase the risk. But in general as the rate increases 
the efficiency decreases. However, very careful and 
thorough experiments preliminary to the construction of 
the Philadelphia filters have shown that in the case of 
some waters, at least, the rate may safely be increased 
to even 5,000,000 and sometimes to almost 6,000,000 
gallons, provided the water be first passed through a so- 
called " rough filter " made of such materials as broken 
coke, lumps of burned clay, etc. Where the filters are 
constructed above the storage reservoirs in the manner 
heretofore described, it is claimed that much larger quan- 
tities of water may be filtered in a given time with equally 
good results. If this be so, it is probably due to the in- 
creased saprophytic and oxidizing action resulting from 
the continuous aeration of the filter. 

As the sediment accumulates and deepens upon the sur- 
face of the sand the rate of flow necessarily diminishes, 
and it becomes necessary after a time to remove the de- 
posit. This is done by carefully scraping off* the top layer 
of the sand to the depth of from one-half to one and one- 
half inches, repeating the scraping as often as may be 
necessary until the thickness of sand above the underlying 



202 WATER. 

gravel is near the permissible minimum. Then the sand 
which has been removed, and which has meanwhile been 
thoroughly washed by a stream of the filtered water, 
driven, if necessary, by a force-pump, and afterward ex- 
posed for some time to the action of the sunlight and air, 
is carefully replaced, packed, and levelled upon the beds. 
These do not again attain their greatest efficiency until a 
certain amount of sediment from the water has once more 
collected upon them, and it is, therefore, not advisable to 
use the filtered water for some time after the cleaning 
and until bacteriological tests show that the maximum 
purification is being attained. 

An essential in the management of all large filters is 
the daily bacteriological and chemical examination of both 
the filtered and unfiltered water. This not only serves to 
give warning of any accident to the filter, but is necessary, 
as the best test of the efficiency of a sand filter is the 
percentage of bacteria which it takes from unfiltered 
water. Unless a filter is holding back from 98 to 99 per 
cent, or more of the bacteria, it needs close inspection, 
although it must be remembered that it is more difficult 
to get good results with a badly polluted water than with 
one that is comparatively pure. 

Domestic Purification of Water. Boiling destroys 
living organisms and disease germs ; it also drives off the 
carbon dioxide and other gases of the water and causes 
the precipitation of many mineral substances held in solu- 
tion by these gases. This is especially the case, as has 
been stated, where the water is hard from the presence of 
calcium bicarbonate in excess ; but iron is also often 
thrown down by boiling. If the water contains a very 
fine sediment, not removed by settling or filtration, it may 
be advantageous to add a little alum and chalk to produce 
the flocculent precipitate already described. Potassium 



DOMESTIC PURIFICATION OF WATER. 



203 



permanganate has little effect in purifying a foul water. 
Agitation with iron filings may do a little good by favor- 
ing oxidation of organic matters. Tannin is believed to 
destroy micro-organisms^ and a harmful water may some- 
times be made usable by boiling with tea-leaves or other 
astringents. Citric acid is said to destroy alge and many 

FIG. 45. 




Water sterilizer for schools, factories, etc. 1 a, Supply pipe; 6, steam coil; 
c, thermometer; e e, corrugated and perforated metal plates ; //, air openings 
guarded by cheese-cloth ; 4, tap to admit cooling water around g g, the 
storage tanks. 

kinds of bacteria. Aeration and agitation improve a 
water after distillation or boiling by restoring oxygen and 
also by oxidizing organic matters. Remember that boiled 
water is prone to take up gases of any kind, whether 
1 From the Bulletin of the Chicago Health Department, Sept. 19, 1903. 



204 



WATER. 



impure and offensive or otherwise. Organic matters are 
removed by boiling, exposure to air, agitation, addition 
of alum, astringents, charcoal, etc. ; calcium bicarbonate, 
by boiling or by adding caustic or slaked lime or a little 
sodium hydroxide or sodium carbonate ; iron, by boiling 
and by adding lime-water. According to Parkes and 

FIG. 46. 




Section of domestic still. 



Rideal, fifteen grains of acid sodium sulphate to the pint 
(1 in 500) will destroy typhoid bacilli in five minutes. 
Calcium and magnesium sulphates and chlorides cannot 
readily be removed. Some plants help to purify by 
means of the oxygen which they give to the water. 



THE FORBES STERILIZER. 205 

Distillation gives, of course, a water free from harmful 
impurities, but one which has lost its gases, and which 
may be improved in palatability by aeration or by being 
charged with carbon dioxide gas. Stills for domestic use, 
capable of supplying an abundance of water for drinking 
and cooking purposes, can now be purchased at moderate 
cost. The main objection to distillation in the household 
is that the process is somewhat slow and tedious. 

Comparatively recently an apparatus has been invented 
and introduced which furnishes a boiled water free from 
disease germs, yet unchanged in taste by the boiling, and 
at nearly the same temperature as the water entering the 
apparatus. This is the Forbes (formerly the Waterhouse- 
Forbes) sterilizer. The principles involved in its con- 
struction and operation are that only a small bulk of 
water is being boiled at any instant; that it is boiled 
for only a very short time, thus preventing loss of the 
original gases and taste ; that all disease germs are killed 
by the boiling; that it is impossible for water which 
has not been boiled to pass through the apparatus ; and 
that the heat of the boiled water is used to warm the 
unboiled water (thus economizing fuel) at the same time 
that the latter is made to cool the former. 

Reference to the diagram (Fig. 47) shows that the water 
can rise no higher than the level X until it " boils over " 
through the spout a into the receiver b. The interchange 
of heat takes place through the diaphragm c, which in the 
apparatus itself is very thin and corrugated, so as to 
expose large surfaces to the water on the two sides of it. 

This apparatus is furnished in a suitable size for house- 
hold use. It is also made on a large scale and in a con- 
venient form for transportation, having been adopted by 
the United States Army as being " well adapted for the 



206 



WATER. 



abundant supply of sterile water to troops in the field." 
The Board of Medical Officers appointed by the Surgeon- 
General of the Army to consider the filters and other ap- 
paratus of the kind submitted made the following report : 
" The advantages of this most ingenious water steril- 

FIG. 47. 




Diagrammatic representation of the principle of the Forbes sterilizer. 

izer are ; First. That water passing through it, although 
brought to the boiling-point, is maintained at this tem- 
perature for so short a time as not to be deprived of its 
natural gases, and hence not rendered unacceptable to the 
taste. Second. That all living micro-organisms . . . 
are destroyed by the degree of heat attained during the 



THE FORBES STERILIZER. 207 

passage of the water through the apparatus. Third. It 
furnishes an abundant supply of practically sterile water, 
and may be kept in action, if necessary, for the entire 
twenty-four hours without renewing the supply of oil in 
the reservoir, and at a cost of about one-fourth of a cent 
an hour. Fourth. The water, having been slowly heated 
until it reaches temporarily the boiling-point, is afterward 
cooled to within 4 or 5 degrees F. of the water entering the 
apparatus. This is one of the important advantages pos- 
sessed by this sterilizer. By placing the bottom of the 
exchange in a freezing mixture the temperature of the ster- 
ilized water as it flows from the machine may be reduced 
below 40 F. Fifth. Its durability and freedom from 
liability to breakage. Sixth. The facility with which the 
apparatus may be put together and entirely taken apart ; 
only one tool, a wrench, being required for this purpose. 
Seventh. The facility with which the apparatus can be 
thoroughly cleansed. This is effected by the removal of 
the rubber cocks, thus permitting a complete flushing out 
of both exchanges. The fact that the apparatus does not 
clarify the water is also deemed of no particular impor- 
tance by the Board, since this may be easily effected prior 
to its passage through the sterilizer by means of one or 
two water barrels partially filled with fine and coarse sand 
and placed at a proper height above the sterilizer. As a 
result of exhaustive experiments . . . the Board is of the 
opinion that this sterilizer is superior to all filters or other 
water sterilizers submitted for trial. We, therefore, after 
a careful consideration of the requirements, respectfully 
recommend that the Forbes sterilizer be issued for the use 
of troops serving in the field." 

House filters are dangerous unless properly cared for, 
and may give more and worse impurities to the water 



208 



WATER. 



than they take from it. What a filter takes from a water 
is left in the filter unless otherwise removed, and an accu- 
mulation of such impurities cannot improve the water 
passing through them. The organic matters will undergo 
decomposition and putrefaction, and will furnish a good 
culture-medium for bacteria, and these, together with the 
soluble putrefaction-products, will in most cases be carried 
through the filter with and by the filtered water. A filter 
has no miraculous power to annihilate filth, and the size 
of a filter must always limit the work it can do, whatever 
the materials used. 

According to Parkes, the requisites of a good filter are : 
1. That every part shall be easily accessible for cleansing 

FIG. 48. 




Tubes of unglazed porcelain for Pasteur-Chamberland filter. 

or renewing the medium. 2. That the filtering medium 
shall have sufficient purifying power and be present in 
sufficient quantity. 3. That the medium give nothing to 
the water favoring the growth of low forms of life. 4. That 
the purifying power be reasonably lasting. 5. That there 
be nothing in the construction of the filter itself capable 
of undergoing putrefaction or of yielding metallic or other 
impurities to the water. 6. That the filtering material 
shall not clog, and that the flow of water be reasonably 
rapid; to which may be added: 7. That the filtering 
medium be such that it can be readily cleansed and ster- 
ilized, or else so cheap that the removal and replenishing 



HOUSE FILTERS. 



209 



may not be neglected, when necessary, on account of the 
expense. 

House filters may be divided into three classes : (a) 
those entirely disconnected from the water-supply pipes 
of the house ; (6) those connected with the water-pipes, 
but intended to filter only a limited quantity, as for drink- 
ing, cooking, etc. ; (c) those connected with the house ser- 
vice-pipe and intended to filter all the water used in the 
house. The same filtering media may be used in all three 

FIG. 49. 




Berkfeldt filter attached to tap. 

classes, but it will be found best in the first two to employ 
substances through which the water passes slowly, while 
the latter class must necessarily filter the water more rap- 
idly in order to yield a sufficient supply. It will often be 
advantageous to have a settling tank connected with those 
of the first class, to prolong the safe use of the. filter as 
long as possible ; while the same object is gained in some 
of the second class by bringing the water in at the bottom, 
in which case there should be a space below the filtering 
14 



210 



WATER. 



medium to allow the suspended matters to fall away from 
the latter. Those intended to filter the whole supply of 
the house are generally cleansed by reversing the current 
and washing the collected dirt out of the filter into a drain 



FIG. 50. 




Pasteur-Chamberland filter with reservoir for filtered water. 

or sewer, the first water passing through the filter after 
this is done being also discarded. In such filters the 
quantity of filtering material should be sufficient to purify 
thoroughly the water passing through it, and yet should 



USE OF COAGULANTS. 211 

not be so heavy that the reverse or washing current can- 
not lift it and separate the particles so that by their scour- 
ing action upon one another they may be cleansed and all 
the dirt washed out. These filters, also, may be so ar- 
ranged that a small quantity of a coagulant, like alum, is 
automatically added to the water before filtration. If this 
be done, care must be had to supply no more of the coagu- 
lant than suitable tests show to be necessary, else the 
excess may be carried through the filter in solution. 

No matter what kind of filter is used, the drinking- 
water should always be boiled in times of epidemics or 
when the water before filtration is especially impure ; for, 
though the Berkfeldt, the Pasteur-Chamberland, and a few 
other filters are practically bacteria-proof, there always re- 
mains a possibility that disease germs may by some means 
pass through the filtering medium or gain access to the 
water after it is filtered. The writer's own opinion is that 
there is a saprophytic or biologic action in most good filters 
that are regularly and frequently cleaned very similar to 
that which takes place in filter-beds on a large scale, and 
that ordinarily few, if any, bacteria pass through with the 
water; but, nevertheless, the risk should not be taken if 
there is danger of incurring disease at any time. 

Filters in which the material is cemented up so that it 
cannot be removed for cleaning or renewal should not be 
used. Sponge, wool, etc., are liable to decompose and 
give organic matter to the water and, moreover, cannot be 
thoroughly cleaned. Asbestos acts only as a mechanical 
filter and may allow albuminous matter and disease germs 
to pass. Asbestos-cloth may be used, however, to support 
the other filtering media in those filters where the water- 
supply enters at the bottom, and it has the advantage that 
it can be perfectly sterilized by fire. Small tap filters are 
insufficient for the work required of them and soon clog. 



212 WATER. 

Pocket filters are simply strainers, and have little oxi- 
dizing power. They may be quite useful for tourists, 

FIG. 51. 




Glass model of Loomis-Manning filter, showing filter in action. 

hunters, etc., but should be frequently sterilized by boil- 
ing. Ordinarily, filters should not be placed in rain-water 
cisterns, but outside ? where they may be readily cleaned. 



MATERIALS USED AS FILTERING MEDIA. 213 



Among the best filtering media are sand, animal char- 
coal, magnetic carbide of iron, spongy iron, etc. Unglazed 
porcelain or bisque, as is used in the Pasteur-Chamberland 



FIG. 52. 




Glass model of Loomis-Manning filter, showing self-scouring of material 
during cleansing. 

filter, is an excellent medium, and is practically germ- 
proof, though some observers state that bacteria will pass 



214 WATER 

through uncleaned filters of this material after five or six 
days of use. Others claim that these are not bacteria, but 
only the mycelia of certain budding fungi, with no power of 
reproduction, and the former statement seems to have been 
positively disproved with respect to the germs of typhoid 
fever, colon bacilli, and similar organisms. The tubes of 
the Berkfeldt filter were formerly made of diatomaceous 
earth, moulded into shape by powerful hydraulic pressure, 
so that the water percolated through the pores of the 
minute fossil shells rather than between them. If kept 
clean, these give good service, but it has been recently 
stated that typhoid bacilli will pass through them after 
several days. Stone filters may be good, and resemble 
the porcelain ones in action, but are apt to be slow and 
must be cleaned often. Sharp, clean sand, not too fine, 
has fair filtering properties, as it arrests most of the sus- 
pended matters and bacteria, beside oxidizing somewhat 
the dissolved organic matters. It makes a good first layer 
for a filter, because it is cheap and can be easily renewed 
or else readily cleansed and sterilized by boiling. Crushed 
quartz is of practically the same nature. 

Animal charcoal is, when fresh, an excellent material, 
as it removes both suspended and dissolved matters, 
organic and inorganic, and even color. It acts both 
mechanically and chemically, and with a good volume of 
it, water may pass through rapidly and be well purified. 
But after a time it ceases to be effective, nor must water 
be left too long in contact with it, as it will give up 
organic matter to the water again and also calcium phos- 
phate, the latter especially favoring the development of 
micro-organisms. Moreover, fresh organic matter, and 
possibly bacteria, are said to pass through it readily, 
though dead or decomposing matter is retained and 
rapidly destroyed. It should be changed or cleansed, 



MATERIALS USED AS FILTERING MEDIA. 215 

even when in sufficient bulk, three or four times a 
year ; oftener if the water to be filtered is very impure. 
It is more efficacious than any other substance in remov- 
ing lead from water. 

Magnetic carbide of iron is one of the best filtering 
materials, as it has considerable power in oxidizing or- 
ganic matters, converting them into nitrates and nitrites, 
the action being greater the longer the water is in contact 
with it. It acts partly by surface condensation of oxy- 
gen ; partly, perhaps, by electrolytic action. If sand be 
used as a first layer to remove solid matters so that the 
water reaches the carbide perfectly clear, and if the sand 
be frequently renewed or cleansed, the carbide need never 
be changed ; but the filtration must be intermittent so 
that the carbide may be frequently aerated. Spongy iron 
has an action very similar to that of the magnetic carbide 
on organic matters, and, like it, the action is the greater 
the longer the contact. It must be kept covered with 
water to prevent rusting and caking, and should be re- 
newed about once a year. The small amount of iron 
that the magnetic carbide and spongy iron give to the 
water may be removed by passing it through a layer of 
pyrolusite a crude magnesium oxide. A mixture of 
pyrolusite and sand or crushed quartz makes an excellent 
filtering material. 

Ice should not be added to filtered or drinking-water, 
as freezing, even for a long time, may not kill certain 
disease germs. Prudden has kept typhoid bacilli frozen 
in ice for more than three months without destroying their 
power of growth and reproduction when brought to a 
suitable temperature. The same objections do not, of 
course, pertain to artificial ice carefully made from dis- 
tilled water as to that from polluted ponds or rivers ; but 
it is well to cool the water by placing it in stoppered 



216 WATER 

bottles upon ice or in vessels surrounded by ice rather 
than by adding the ice to the water directly. 

The inadvisability of using ice-water freely as a bev- 
erage should be mentioned here, as the habit is almost 
certain to cause much harm to the digestive apparatus, 
and to give origin not only to intractable dyspepsias, but 
to troubles even more serious. If used at all, ice-water 
should be taken slowly and in small quantities, and as 
little as possible should be imbibed at meal-time, in order 
to prevent chilling of the stomach and consequent check- 
ing of the digestion. Its use and the liking for it are 
mainly a matter of habit which it is hygienic wisdom to 
overcome. 

The Examination of a Drinking-water should have 
regard to its physical, bacterial, and chemical properties 
as well as to a consideration of all the conditions affecting 
its source, storage, and distribution. Consequently, a 
decision on the purity of water should be governed by 
all the available knowledge of the circumstances : whether 
it is well-water, spring-water, rain-water, or river-water ; 
whether it has been at any time exposed to pollution ; in 
what kind of a cistern or reservoir it has been stored, etc. 

A physical examination of water considers the color, 
clearness, sediment, lustre, taste, and smell. Pure water 
has a bluish tint, but most waters are grayish, greenish, 
yellow, or brown. Yellow or brown waters are subject to 
suspicion, as the color may be due to animal matter or sew- 
age, though vegetable matters or iron may give the same 
color. Green waters are usually harmless, the color being 
due to vegetable matters. The color is judged by allow- 
ing the sediment to settle and then siphoning or pouring 
off the supernatant water into a tall glass vessel or tube 
to the depth of about twenty-four inches; the color is 



EXAMINATION OF DRINKING-WATER. 217 

then compared with that of a similar depth of distilled 
water, looking down through both upon a white surface. 

The clearness of a water is to be estimated in the same 
way, except that the sediment is to be shaken up with 
the water. The depth needed to obscure print of a cer- 
tain size and kind of type may be used as an index. 
Where the solid matter will not readily settle, owing to 
the minuteness and lightness of the particles, one should 
determine whether the use of a coagulant and filtration is 
indicated, or whether boiling will tend to precipitate the 
sediment. The sediment may be roughly judged by the 
eye as to whether it is mineral or otherwise ; it should also 
be examined microscopically, for which purpose it may be 
collected by using a centrifugal apparatus or by allowing 
it to settle from the water in a conical glass and then 
removing it to the slide with a pipette. Mineral matters 
are recognized by their crystalline or amorphous structure 
or by micro-chemical tests; vegetable cells, portions of 
leaves, etc., by their structure and the presence of chlo- 
rophyll ; animal substances, as hair, wool, epithelial and 
other cells, by their peculiar characteristics. Dark-brown, 
globular masses may come from sewage. Anything indi- 
cating that water has come from human habitation renders 
it suspicious, as it may therefore contain sewage or other 
polluting substances. Some of the larger animalculse and 
sometimes iron may be detected with the naked eye. 1 

The lustre is supposed to indicate the amount of aera- 
tion ; it may be nil, dull, vitreous, or adamantine. It 
should not be forgotten that a very impure water may be 
clear, bright, and sparkling. 

Any water of peculiar or unpleasant taste should be 
considered with suspicion. Dissolved animal matters 

1 See J. C. MacDonald's Guide to Microscopic Examination of Drink- 
ing-water. 



218 WATER. 

may be tasteless, but suspended substances give a peculiar 
taste, whether animal or vegetal. Iron is about the only 
ordinary mineral that can be tasted in small quantities. 
Good water depends for its taste mainly upon its gases, 
and water free from gas tastes flat. 

The smell of a water, if it has any, may be brought out 
by heating gently to about 110 F., or by boiling it. This 
may make evident a fecal odor, although hydrogen sul- 
phide may mask this latter ; in such a case the sulphide 
may be removed by adding a little cupric sulphate to the 
water. The odor may also be developed by allowing the 
water to stand in a stoppered bottle in a warm place for 
a few days. 

A bacteriological analysis is almost as necessary as 
a chemical one, for purity in the one respect does not 
necessarily indicate purity in the other. The presence of 
Bacterium coli communis in a water, irrespective of any 
pathogenic organisms, would create more than a suspicion 
of contamination by fecal matter, as this microbe is prac- 
tically a constant occupant of the human intestinal tract. 
But Avater may be capable of carrying typhoid or other 
infection and yet be free from colon bacilli, since the 
disease germs may have been introduced into the water 
from urine rather than feces. 

Water may be collected for bacteriological analysis in 
sterilized, closed bulbs blown from glass tubing. The 
heat used in sealing the ends creates a partial vacuum 
within the bulb, so that if the tip of one end be broken 
off beneath the surface of the water, the latter is drawn 
into the bulb, which can then be resealed and conveyed 
to the laboratory. But as some of the bacteria may mul- 
tiply rapidly in transportation and as some species may 
even destroy others, it is always best, if possible, to inocu- 
late the tubes of sterilized culture-media at the place 



COLLECTION OF WATER FOR ANALYSTS. 219 

where the supply for examination is obtained. Or one 
may add a small quantity of the water to melted nutrient 
gelatin at the time when the samples are taken and make 
plate cultures in the manner already described. The 
number of colonies resulting therefrom will indicate prac- 
tically the number of bacteria in the volume of water 
added to the gelatin. 

FIG. 53. 




Pocket-case containing sterilized culture-tubes, platinum needle, and 
alcohol lamp, used for obtaining cultures for diagnosis, etc. 

The details of some simple but fairly accurate tests and 
methods employed in the chemical analysis of drinking- 
water will be given in another chapter. Here we need 
only consider the influence that the substances sought for 
in the analysis have in affecting potability, and within 



220 WATER. 

what limits we may consider them as being permis- 
sible in drinking-water. The water should be filtered 
or free from sediment for all the tests, except in the 
estimation of nitrogen as ammonia compounds and as 
organic matter, and of the oxygen-consuming power of 
the water. 

The amount of total solids will vary with the source of 
the water, and much more may be present in some cases 
without risk of harm than would be safe in others ; but 
usually the proportion should not exceed 50 or 60 parts 
in 100,000. Only a small portion should be volatile, and 
there should be little charring on ignition, except in the 
case of waters from peaty soils ; nor should there be any 
odor on ignition, especially of ammonia compounds, as 
that would indicate an excess of animal organic matter. 
Deep well-water will probably have much more total 
solids than rain-water or clear river-water, the excess 
being mainly, mineral substances dissolved from the strata 
through which the water passes. 

Even the purest waters contain a little chlorine, usually 
in the form of sodium chloride; but, as the latter is a 
constant constituent of household slops and sewage in 
general, any excess of chlorine above the amount common 
to the water of the district, unless otherwise accounted for, 
will be decidedly suspicious, and sewage contamination 
should be looked for. So, also, any sudden increase in 
the proportion of chlorine would very likely indicate the 
accession of some new source of contamination to the 
water. Unless accounted for by the strata traversed or 
by the locality, more than 3 parts of chlorine in 100,000 
of water is very suspicious. 

The presence of considerable " free ammonia " in rain- 
water is not a bad sign, as it has probably been absorbed 
from the air ; but the same amount in subsoil-water, espe- 



VALUE OF RESULTS OF ANALYTICAL TESTS. 221 

cially if with an excess of chlorine, would indicate prob- 
able contamination with urine, as the latter rapidly 
undergoes amraoniacal putrefaction. In such a case there 
will probably also be considerable " albuminoid ammonia," 
but much albuminoid ammonia with little free ammonia 
and chlorine generally indicates vegetable contamination. 
The writer is acquainted with a case in which, although 
the water is pure and from an unpolluted source, the 
albuminoid ammonia and chlorine are in marked excess, 
the former being altogether of vegetable origin from a 
peaty soil and the latter characteristic of the whole dis- 
trict, which is near the sea-coast. The free ammonia is, 
however, slight in amount. An excess of free ammonia, 
chlorine, nitrates, and nitrites indicates animal contamina- 
tion, though, if the pollution be by effluvia alone, there 
may be no excess of chlorine. 1 The total ammonia in 
a usable water should not be over 0.13 or 0.15 part per 
1,000,000. If there is almost no "free" ammonia, the 
"albuminoid" may amount to 0.10 part per 1,000,000 
without giving cause for suspicion ; likewise, if there is 
but little " albuminoid," there may be considerable " free " 
ammonia ; but if the " albuminoid " exceeds 0.05 part 
per 1,000,000, the " free " must not be greater than this 
proportion. The simplest test for ammonia is by means 
of Nessler's reagent a solution of a double iodide of 
potassium and mercury. It gives a yellow or yellowish- 
brown coloration when ammonia is present. 

Organic matters of animal origin, and therefore nitro- 
genous, are during oxidation partially converted into 
ammonium compounds, and these, by the action of cer- 
tain bacteria, may be further oxidized into nitrites and 
nitrates. '< Nitrification takes place under the influence 

1 Kenwood's Hygienic Laboratory, p. 49, 



222 WATER. 

of microbes, the habitat of which does not extend more 
than a few yards below the surface of the soil. The 
nitrifying action is probably exerted only upon the am- 
monium which is formed from the organic matter. The 
presence of some substance capable of neutralizing acids 
is necessary to continuous action. Calcium and magne- 
sium carbonates fulfil this function. Nitrates are the 
final result of this action ; nitrites are present at any 
given time only in small quantity." 2 Deep water may, 
of course, also contain nitrates taken up from strata rich 
in these salts. 

Although nitrites and nitrates are not harmful in the 
quantities usually found in water, and though the water 
containing them may have been thoroughly purified by 
natural filtration through the soil, their presence, as will 
be seen from the above remarks, is important in deter- 
mining the character of the water. The presence of the 
slightest trace of nitrites is always suspicious, and any 
marked amount of nitrates, excepting possibly in a deep 
water, should require close investigation ; the nitrates and 
nitrites together measured in terms of nitrogen should not 
exceed 1 part per 1,000,000. 

The hardness should not be greater than that indicated 
by 20 or 30 parts of chalk in 100,000, and the more 
" temporary " in proportion to the " permanent " hardness 
the better. 

Phosphates, not from phosphatic strata, help to indicate 
sewage contamination. So, also, do sulphates, though 
these by themselves may come from unimportant sources. 

It will be seen from the above statements that the 
opinion regarding any water must be based on a broad 
consideration of all the circumstances in relation to it, 
1 Leffmann and Bevan, Examination of Water, 2d edition, p. 13, 



CLASSIFICATION OF VARIOUS WATERS. 



223 



and not from the presence or absence in it of any one 
or two substances which are not in themselves harmful. 
The presence of poisonous metals above the limits of 
safety, however, would alone contraindicate the use of a 
water. For instance, there should not be more than 0.04 
grain of lead or copper, 0.25 grain of zinc, or 0.5 grain 
of iron to the gallon in any water, and the faintest trace 
of arsenic condemns it. 

The following table has been adapted from Parkes : 
CLASSIFICATION AND PROPERTIES OF VARIOUS WATERS. 



Class. 


Physical. 


Microscopical. 


Chemical 
(parts per 100,000). 


I. 


Colorless or bluish 


Mineral matter; 


Chlorine under 1.4 


Pure 


tint; transparent, 


vegetable eudo- 


Total solids under 7.14 


water. 


sparkling, and well 


chrorne ; large ani- 


Ammonia under 0.007 




aerated ; no sediment 


mal forms ; no or- 


Nitrogen, as nitrites & n i- 




visible : no smell ; 


ganic debris. 


trates, A in albuminoid 




taste palatable. 




ammonia, under 0.023 








Total hardness 8.05 


II. 


Colorless or slight 


Same as for pure 


Chlorine under 4.3 


Usable 


greenish tint; trans- 


water. 


Total sol ids " 42.8 


water. 


pare nt, sparkling, 




Ammonia " 0.015 




and well aerated ; no 




Nitrogen, as nitrites 




suspended matter, 




& nitrates, and in 




or easily separated 




albuminoid am- 




by coarse nitration 




monia, under 0.125 




or subsidence; no 




Total hardness 17.03 




smell ; taste palata- 








ble. 






III. 


.Yellow or strong 


Vegetable and ani- 


Chlorine 4 to 7 


Suspicious 


green color ; turbid ; 


mal forms, more or 


Total solids 43 to 71 


water. 


considerable sus- 


less pale or color- 


Ammonia 0.015 to 0.023 




pended matter; no 


less; organic ilrhrix : 


Nitrogen, as nitrites 




smell, but any 


fibres of clothing or 


A nitrates 




marked taste. 


other house refuse. 


0.124 to 0.237 








Total hardness 








above 17.0 


IV. 


Yellow or brown 


Bacteria of any 


Chlorine above 7.14 


Dangerous 


color ; turbid, and 


kind ; fungi ; numer- 


Total solids " 71.4 


water. 


not easily purified 


ous vegetable or ani- 


Ammonia " 0.0225 




by coarse filtration ; 


mal forms of low 


Nitrogen, as nitrites 




large amount of sus- 
pended matter ; any 


types ; epithelia or 
other animal struct- 


A nitrates, above 0.242 
Total hardness 




marked smell or 


ures ; evidence of 


above 28.05 




taste. 


sewage or ova of 








parasites, etc. 





CHAPTER VI. 

FOOD. 

THE use of food is necessary to build up the body- 
structure, to repair waste, and to furnish force and 
energy for the proper action of all the organs, tissues, 
and parts of the body. In addition, certain substances 
are needed, not so much because they become a part of 
the tissue framework or yield kinetic energy directly, as 
that they are essential factors in the multitudinous chemi- 
cal reactions and changes that are continually occurring 
within the living person. We may, accordingly, define 
a food as anything that tends to fulfil any one of these 
functions, provided it is not at the same time by nature 
harmful to the economy, and that it does not produce 
physiological effects out of proportion to its nutritive or 
metabolic activities. 

Strictly speaking, this definition might include air and 
water, as the former is necessary to supply oxygen for 
union with other foods or with the tissues themselves, 
and the latter is needed to assist in the solution and 
assimilation of food-stuffs, to maintain the fluidity of the 
body-juices and to moisten the tissues effectively, to pre- 
serve roundness of form, and to flush out and remove 
from the system those waste matters and excrementitious 
substances whose retention gives rise to the symptoms of 
certain autogenetic diseases. But they are not usually 
included in the category of foods, and, having already 
been considered, they may be passed over in this connec- 
tion with but incidental reference here and there. 
224 



FOOD-PRINCIPLES. 225 

If we classify foods according to their chemical compo- 
sition, we may separate them into the following main 
divisions : 1. Proteids and albuminoids ; 2. Carbohy- 
drates ; 3. Hydrocarbons or fats ; and 4. Salts, extrac- 
tives, etc. Each group is subject to different digestive 
and metabolic processes, and each has usually a different 
office within the body ; for experience and careful experi- 
ments both show that all of these different food-principles 
are needed to sustain life and maintain health for any con- 
siderable length of time, and that, having them, nothing 
else except air and water is absolutely necessary ; although 
what are sometimes called the accessory food-stuffs and 
many pleasant volatile odors and flavors are desirable 
and advisable adjuncts to the food proper, since they 
greatly favor its reception, digestion, and assimilation. 
But, though each class of food has its own special function 
in the economy of nutrition, in times of need or depriva- 
tion any one of the first three divisions may, in a way, 
supply the place of either of the other two. 

Fothergill 1 epitomizes the use of the food-principles 
in this way : " The carbohydrates are the body-fuel, the 
surplusage being stored as fat ; the albuminoids (proteids) 
serve to repair the tissues as they wear out ; the salts 
form the blood-salts ; the fat helps to build up normal 
health tissues, the excess being burnt as body-fuel. That 
is the real object of food." 

While in the main correct, this is a broad statement 
of facts, and it needs qualification. For instance, just 
as there is some wear and tear in any mechanical ma- 
chine while in use, which must eventually be provided 
for; so in the human body with its manifold activities 
there must be some destructive effect upon the body- 

1 Manual of Dietetics, p. 5. 
15 



226 FOOD. 

structure and tissue framework, and it is to renew and re- 
place this inevitable loss of material that a part ^perhaps 
the larger or greater part of the proteid food is taken. 
But we also know that in addition to this simple re- 
pair and replacement of tissue, " the presence of nitrogen- 
ized structure, and its participation in the action going on 
there, is a necessary condition for the manifestation of 
any vital energy or any chemical change," and we have 
reason to believe that, entirely apart from the idea of 
repair, proteid food is essential to the development and 
maintenance of this chemical and vital activity of nitro- 
genized tissue. 

Confirming this, Pettenkofer and Voigt have shown 
that the absorption of oxygen is largely determined by 
the nitrogenous substances composing the tissues of the 
body, and that it is proportional to their size and vigor. 
Moreover, it is known that proteids may be, in part, 
converted into fat and possibly into other oxidizable sub- 
stances, and thus become a source of body-heat and 
energy. 

So, also, with the fats and carbohydrates. "While they 
are not immediately nor entirely interconvertible, and 
while neither class may be permanently excluded from 
the diet, yet in emergency either may apparently fully 
supplant and substitute the other for a time, and we can- 
not yet say exactly how similar or dissimilar their service 
within the body is. 

However, while Fothergill's epitome needs this emen- 
dation, known facts make it comparatively easy to gain 
a fair idea of the differences and functions of the proxi- 
mate food-principles, to which end some help will proba- 
bly be given by the following table r 1 

1 Notter and Firth, Treatise on Hygiene, p. 257. 



PROPERTIES OF FOOD-PRINCIPLES. 



227 



PROPERTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD-PRINCIPLES. 





Examples. 


Functions. 


NITROGENOUS SUBSTANCES. 






1. Proteids. 


Animal: 




All substances containing nitro- 


Albumin, 


Formation and repair of tis- 


gen of a composition identical with, 


Fibrin, 


sues and fluids of the body. 


or nearly that of albumin ; propor- 
tion of N to C being nearly as 2 to 
7 or 4 to 14. 


Syntonin, 
Myosin, 
Globulin, 


Regulation of the absorption 
and utilization of oxygen. May 
also form fat and yield energy 




Casein. 


under special conditions. In 




Vegetable : 


most foods the above, both ani- 




Glutin, 


mal and vegetable, are largely 




Legumin. 


converted into albumoses and 






peptones. 


l(a). Substances containing a 


Gelatin, 


These perform the above 


larger proportion of nitrogen are 
apparently less nutritious. 


Ossein, 
Chondrin, 


functions less perfectly, or 
only under particular circum- 


Proportion of N to C about 2 to 


Keratin, 


stances. 


Sy 2 or 4 to 11. 






1(6). Extractive matters, such as 




These substances appear es- 


are contained in the juice of the 
flesh. 




sential as regulators of digestion 
and assimilation, especially 






with reference to the gelatin 






group. 


NON-NITROUENOUS SUBSTANCBS. 






2. Fats (or Hydrocarbons). 






Substances containing no nitro- 


Olein, 


Supply of fatty tissues; nu- 


gen, but made up of carbon, hydro- 


Stearin, 


trition of nervous system ; sup- 


gen, and oxygen; the proportion 
of oxygen being less than sufficient 


Margarin, 


ply of energy and animal heat 
by oxidation. 


to convert all the hydrogen into 






water. 






Proportion of unoxidized H to C, 






about 1 to 7. 






3. Carbohydrates. 






Substances containing no nitro- 


Starch, 


Production of energy and 


gen, but made up of carbon, hy- 


Dextrin, 


animal heat by oxidation ; 


drogen, and oxygen ; the oxygen 


Cane-sugar, 


form fats and possibly some 


being exactly sufficient to convert 


Grape- " 


proteid. 


all the hydrogen into water. 


Lactin (or 




Proportion of water to carbon, 


milk-sugar) 




about 3 to 2. 






3(a). Vegetable acids (and peclous 


(More O than 


Preserve the alkalinity of the 


substances). 


is sufficient 


blood by their conversion into 


Substances containing no nitro- 


to convert 


carbonates ; furnish a small 


gen, but made up of carbon, hy- 


all H into 


amount of energy or animal 


drogen, and oxygen ; the oxygen 


H 2 O.) 


heat by oxidation. 


being generally in greater amount 


Oxalic acid, 




than is sufficient to convert all the 


Tartaric " 




hydrogen into water. 


Citric " 






Malic " 






(No excess 






of 0.) 






Acetic acid, 






Lactic " 




4. Salts (mineral). 


Sodium 


Various; support of bony 




chloride. 


skeleton, supply of HC1 for 




Potassium 


digestion, etc. Regulators of 




chloride, 


energy and nutrition. 




Calcium 






phosphate, 






Magnesium 






phosphate, 






Iron, etc. 





228 FOOD. 

Dietetics means " the branch of medicine or hygiene 
that treats of diet and dieting/' and its study includes "a 
systematic regulation of the diet for hygienic or thera- 
peutic purposes." It considers all the factors that affect 
the proper digestion and assimilation of food. For in- 
stance, it is not alone necessary to determine just what 
substances, in a chemical sense, the body needs to sustain 
life and maintain health. Nor is it sufficient to say 
that a man must have just so much of this and so 
much of that food, for there must always be a varia- 
tion in both kind and quantity to meet the changing 
demands of the system. With a few exceptions, no 
matter how toothsome or healthful a certain food may 
be, it soon palls upon the appetite if necessity compels 
its continued use for a prolonged period, and this disgust 
may be so impressed upon the memory of the sense as 
to cause them to object to the use of that food forever 
after. 

The aesthetic factors in the preparation and serving of 
food must also be taken into account, and the success 
in pleasing the taste and appetite has much to do with the 
progress and completeness of digestion. Other things 
being equal, palatable and agreeable foods are disposed of 
much more satisfactorily than others not so, and physi- 
cians and others should learn that especially in sickness 
the appearance and palatability of a food have much to 
do with its acceptance, not only by the patient, but by 
his stomach as well. Cleanliness and neatness of food, 
china, and napery are of greater value than expense or 
show, and a little attention and tact in such matters will 
often enable a patient to take, enjoy, and retain food and 
receive nourishment, even when he or she asserts and 
believes this to be impossible. 



PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION. 229 

Another factor of much importance in the digestion of 
food, but one too often too lightly considered, is the mood 
or state of mind when the food is taken and while it 
remains- in the alimentary canal. There is more than 
moral philosophy in maintaining a cheerful and a tran- 
quil disposition during the daily meals and for a time 
thereafter; while there are numerous instances of most 
serious results occurring from the giving way to anger or 
other intense emotion at such times, the digestive func- 
tions being either completely checked, or, what is fre- 
quently worse, so altered that their products are toxic in 
character. And is not a dyspeptic often so because of 
his pessimism, rather than a misanthrope because of his 
indigestion ? 

Before proceeding further it will be well to consider 
briefly the physiology of digestion in so far as it concerns 
the chemical changes occurring in the food while it is in 
the digestive tract. These changes are brought about by 
the action of certain bodies secreted or elaborated by the 
digestive organs and glands, which we have been in the 
habit of calling unorganized ferments, but which would, 
perhaps, better be known hereafter as enzymes. Unorgan- 
ized ferments are so called because they have not the defi- 
nite cell-formation, life, and power of reproduction which 
belong to the yeasts, mould-fungi, and bacteria which bring 
about the fermentative changes in organic substances so 
commonly within the knowledge of everyone, such as the 
conversion of saccharine solutions into alcohol, of alcohol 
into acetic acid, etc. 

But though unorganized, the enzymes likewise act upon 
organic matter ; for example, upon the food which we eat, 
and like the other ferments they apparently do this 
simply by their presence rather than by entering into 



230 FOOD. 

actual combination with the matter acted upon, as do ordi- 
nary chemical reagents. They are undoubtedly the prod- 
ucts of glandular protoplasm, probably proteid in nature, 
and some, at least, very likely belonging to the group of 
nucleo-albumins, which latter form a component part of 
every organic cell. 

The comprehension of the digestive functions will be 
greatly simplified if the student remembers that " with the 
possible exception of the coagulating enzymes, the action 
of the enzymes is that of hydrating agents : they produce 
their effect by what is known as hydrolysis that is, they 
cause the molecules of the substance upon which they act 
to take up one or more molecules of water ; the resulting 
molecule then splits or is dissociated, with the formation 
of two or more simpler bodies." 1 

Thus the insoluble proteids and carbohydrates become 
respectively the soluble peptones and sugars of their allies, 
capable of being absorbed into the myriad capillaries that 
are distributed throughout the lining membrane of the ali- 
mentary tract ; and even the change that takes place in fat 
when digested is one that involves the taking up of some 
water. 

There are four characteristics of the enzymes worthy of 
note : 1. That they are all soluble in water and glycerin, 
the latter being specially useful in making stable prepara- 
tions of them from the organs producing them. 2. " That 
very low temperatures (0 C.) retard or suspend entirely 
their action, without, however, destroying the enzyme; 
that for each enzyme there is a temperature at which its 
action is greater," and that " in a moist condition they 
are all destroyed by temperatures below the boiling-point ; 
60 to 80 C. are the limits actually observed." 2 3. "That 
1 American Text-book of Physiology, first edition, p. 219. 2 Ibid. 



PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION. 231 

they never completely destroy the substance upon which 
they act/' probably being retarded by their products when 
the latter reach a certain percentage. " When these are 
removed, the action of the enzymes begins again." 4. 
" Except for very small quantities, it may be said that 
the amount of change caused is independent of the amount 
of enzyme present ;" or, rather, " with increasing amounts 
of enzymes the extent of action also increases, reaching a 
maximum with a certain percentage of enzyme ; increase 
of enzyme beyond this has no effect." The amount of 
work capable of being done by a small proportion of an 
enzyme is enormous, good pepsin, for instance, having the 
power of converting 2500 times its own weight of proteid ; 
but we must remember that this power is not infinite, and 
that after a time the enzymes will cease to act. 

There are five groups or classes of enzymes concerned 
with the proper digestion of food to be found in the ani- 
mal body, and it is interesting to note that examples of 
each of these classes are also to be found in various mem- 
bers of the vegetable world. The two principal remaining 
classes, being neither of animal origin nor digestive agents, 
need only be mentioned here : they are the glucoside-split- 
ting and urea-splitting enzymes, the latter being produced 
by certain bacteria and converting urea into ammonium 
carbonate. 

Considering the digestive processes in their order as the 
food proceeds from the mouth through the alimentary 
canal, we find that the first active secretion or fluid is the 
saliva, and that its enzyme is ptyalin, belonging to that 
group which converts the insoluble carbohydrates (starches) 
into soluble sugars, maltose, etc. Ptyalin acts best in 
peutral or slightly alkaline media, at about the body- 



232 FOOD. 

temperature (40 C.), and upon cooked much better than 
upon raw starch. 1 Its action is retarded or totally checked by 
a low temperature or by strongly alkaline or moderately 
acid solutions, and the enzyme itself is probably destroyed 
by an increase in acidity equal to that of the gastric juice, 
or by a temperature of 65 or 70 C. The reason it con- 
verts cooked starch so much more quickly is probably be- 
cause the heating process breaks up the cellulose envelopes 
upon which the ptyalin has almost no effect and which 
protect the starch granules within from its action. The 
heat also causes a very close union between the molecules 
of starch and water, this facilitating the later hydrolysis 
by the enzyme. 

In addition to its digestive function, the saliva also 
serves to moisten dry food so that it may be swallowed, 
and to dissolve sapid and savory substances that they may 
be duly appreciated by the organs of taste. 

Our first hygienic lesson in regard to the digestive 
functions is, therefore, that in order to get the full benefit 
of the salivary secretions, all food, and especially that of 
a starchy nature, should be well masticated and retained 
in the mouth for some little time, instead of its being 
" bolted " at once or after a hasty bite or two. Evidence 
is also at hand that with proper mastication there will be 
little danger of overeating, and, in most cases, a decided 
decrease in the consumption of proteids, the latter prob- 

1 Kubel claims to have found that an alkaline reaction, even when 
very weak, actually interferes with ptyalin digestion, but that it is 
favored by a weak acid reaction, especially if the acid be one of the 
stronger ones, like HC1. He admits that an amount of hydrochloric 
acid equivalent to that of the gastric juice checks the activity of the 
ptyalin, but believes that at the beginning of a meal and for a time 
thereafter salivary digestion takes place better in the stomach than in 
the mouth. Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, April, 1899. 






CHARACTERISTICS OF DOMESTIC ENZYMES. 233 

ably resulting in a lessening of fatigue products and an 
increase in endurance. 

Nor should very cold or very hot beverages be taken at 
the same time with the food, for not only will the action 
of the ptyalin be thus retarded or destroyed, but that also, 
as we shall see, of the gastric juice within the stomach. 
A note here as to the drinking of water at meal-time will 
not be out of place. A moderate quantity of proper tem- 
perature will probably be beneficial rather than otherwise, 
since it helps in the solution of the food ; but an exces- 
sive quantity tends to harm by diluting the enzymes 
too much, thus interfering with their reactions, and by 
interfering with the absorption of the digested matters. 
Moreover, it has been shown that not only does the saliva 
act best when diluted with about three times its volume 
of water and provided the food has been thoroughly mas- 
ticated, but also that water is a positive excitant of both 
the gastric and pancreatic secretions. 1 

The food, having passed from the mouth to the stom- 
ach, may still be acted upon for a time by the ptyalin 
until the work of the latter is checked by the acid of the 
gastric juice. 2 The energy of digestive action is then 
transferred from the starches to the proteid constituents 
of the food, the chief enzyme now being pepsin, though 

1 See Physiology of Alimentation, Martin II. Fischer, pp. 104, 22G, and 
232. 

'Recent experiments seem to show that "ptyalin digestion normally 
continues during the first hour of gastric digestion, or, in fact, until the 
hydrochloric acid secretion reaches the normal maximum." A. L. 
Benedict, Journal of the American Medical Association, July 28, 1900. 
Griitzmer has also shown (Pfliiger's Archiv, 190o, cvi, 436) that the reac- 
tion within the main mass of the food in the stomach may remain alka- 
line or neutral for some two hours, the digestion of proteids hy pepsin 
going on only at the pyloric end and in that part of the food that was 
in contact with the stomach walla. 






234 FOOD. 

we also find in the gastric juice a coagulating ferment 
rennin which acts upon soluble proteids, like the casein 
of milk, to form clots or curds. 

Pepsin acts only in an acid medium (the acidity being 
supplied normally by the free hydrochloric acid of the 
gastric juice), and best at the body-temperature. As 
stated, extremes of temperature are adverse to its activity 
and may check it altogether, and, likewise, too much or 
too little acid may have the same effect, from 0.2 to 0.3 
per cent, of HC1 being the normal amount and giving the 
best results. Rennin 1 seems in the normal stomach to act 
only on the casein of milk, and curdles this probably be- 
cause it is then more easily digested by the pepsin and, 
later, by the trypsin of the pancreatic juice. 

The action of the pepsin, plus the acid, upon the proteids 
of the food is a hydrolytic one, and the end-products are 
practically hydrated proteids, called albuinoses and pep- 
tones substances especially diffusible and capable of 
absorption. The gastric digestion, therefore, after the 
action of the ptyalin has been checked by the acid gastric 
juice, practically has to do only with the albuminous or 
nitrogenous part of the food, the remainder, or at least 
that part of it not yet capable of absorption, remaining 
unchanged until it passes further on into the intestines. 
Soluble salts, sugars, and part, at least, of the peptones as 
they are formed, may, however, be taken up by the stomach 

1 Oppenheimer says concerning rennin : " It does not appear to have 
any essential significance for the digestion of proteids. It is strikingly 
absent in the new-born, who consume much milk. Zuntz and Sternberg 
have even found that milk proteid coagulated by reimin is less easily 
digested than the original milk proteid, and attribute to this in part the 
relatively smaller availability of milk for adults, who produce more 
rennin." (Torald Sollmann, The Journal of The American Medical 
Association, Feb. 9, 1907, p. 521.) 



THE PANCREATIC ENZYMES. 235 

capillaries, while the rest of the food-mass, kept ever 
in motion by the muscular movements of the stomach- 
walls, is being thoroughly mixed and converted by the 
peptic action into the semi-liquid substance called chyme, 
which is passed at intervals and in small quantities through 
the pyloric opening into the duodenum. Long before the 
stomach has entirely emptied itself which may only be 
after several hours of activity l intestinal digestion is well 
under way, and in some respects this is the most important 
as well as the most comprehensive process of all. The 
three secretions to whose combined action the chyme is 
now subject are the pancreatic juice, the bile, and the 
intestinal juice. All are alkaline and quickly neutralize 
the gastric acid ; it scarcely need be noted, then, that the 
remaining enzymes act best or only in alkaline media, 
though one of them, trypsin, may act in solutions not too 
strongly acid. 

In the pancreatic juice we find three enzymes, practi- 
cally the only remaining ones of much importance ; al- 
though in the rather scanty intestinal juice two others 
have been found, one capable of converting starch into 
sugar, and the other of inverting cane-sugar into levulose 
and dextrose. The bile contains no enzymes. The pan- 
creatic ferments are trypsin, which acts upon proteids 
and albuminoids even more powerfully than pepsin, and 
likewise converts them into albumoses and peptones ; 
amylopsin, which is practically identical with ptyalin in its 

1 "Cannon and others have shown that the main mass of the food 
remains in the stomach for a considerable time three hours with a car- 
bohydrate meal, six hours with a proteid meal, twenty-one hours with 
a fatty meal. A portion of the food leaves the stomach much earlier." 
(Torald Sollmann, loc. cit., p. 522.) 



236 FOOD. 

function ; and steapsin, which causes neutral fats to take 
up water and split into free fatty acids and glycerin. 

Under the action of the trypsin all that portion of the 
proteid food which has not been completely digested in 
the stomach reaches that stage in the small intestine and 
is absorbed therefrom. In fact, it is very probable that 
the tryptic digestion is often the more important of the 
two. As the action of the saliva upon the carbohydrates, 
which form the greater bulk of our food, must of neces- 
sity be very limited, it is evident that almost all of the 
starch digestion is performed by the amylopsin, aided 
in slight measure by the similar enzyme of the intestinal 
juice. The salts and other soluble elements of the food 
have already been absorbed, and there remain only the 
fats or hydrocarbons. 

Under the influence of the steapsin a comparatively 
small portion of the fat in the food is separated into 
glycerin and free fatty acids, and this action for some 
reason takes place much more rapidly when aided by the 
bile than with the pancreatic juice alone. Then these 
fatty acids unite with the alkalies and alkaline salts of 
the above secretions, but especially of the bile and intes- 
tinal juice, to form soaps, and these soaps aid in emulsi- 
fying the remainder of the fats and in thus making them 
ready for absorption, which latter process is also facili- 
tated by the direct action of the bile upon the intestinal 
epithelium. 

The student must not get the idea that the absorption 
of digested food from the alimentary canal is merely a 
physical process and a matter of osmosis or diffusion. 
Accumulating experience indicates that it is in a meas- 
ure, if not largely, vital and physiological, and that " the 



THE PANCREATIC ENZYMES. 237 

living cells of the intestinal wall appear to take an active 
share in the process, and modify the action of the physical 
factors in a manner not at present understood." This is 
probably especially true as regards the absorption of the 
fats, whether we take the commonly accepted view that 
most of the fat is emulsified and only a small portion split 
up and saponified in the intestine, or the one which some 
have advocated of late years, viz., that almost, if not all, 
of the fat is decomposed and dissociated, and compara- 
tively little, if any, emulsified. 

The digestive processes having thus been outlined, it 
will be well to learn how they may be maintained as 
complete and perfect as possible. In the first place, the 
cooking of food is usually an essential preliminary. We 
cook meats not only to make them more agreeable to 
the palate, but also to facilitate digestion. The effect of 
cooking upon muscle (flesh) is "to loosen the bundles of 
fibrillse from each other, so that they are readily torn 
asunder or crushed by the teeth," while the various con- 
nective tissues are softened and gelatinized, not only thus 
becoming more digestible and nutritious, but also allowing 
the histologic elements which they bind together to sepa- 
rate and be more freely acted upon by the solvent fluids. 
So with the vegetables, the heat and steam soften and 
rupture the cellulose envelopes of the various cells that the 
ferments may the more readily act upon their contents ; 
and at the same time they bring about subtle chemical 
changes that greatly increase the palatability of food- 
stuffs. 

Thorough mastication of the food is important for the 
reasons already stated, and the cause of most dyspepsias 
may be found in faulty habits of eating. Foster says 



238 FOOD. 

that in the stomach " the natural bundles of meat and 
vegetables fall asunder, the muscular fibres split up into 
disks, and the protoplasm is dissolved from the vegetable 
cell " ; but, " if the meat be not chewed properly, but 
'bolted/ the solvent gastric juice can only act on the 
exterior of the mass, while * lumps ' offend the stomach 
and arrest the gastric secretion." " Coarse particles of 
food also delay the opening of the pylorus, and so keep a 
meal in the stomach a correspondingly longer time." 1 
The importance of abstaining at meal-time from beverages 
or other substances of too low or too high a temperature 
has already been noted, and, as all the enzymes act best 
at the body-temperature, care should always be had to 
avoid chilling of the abdominal organs while digestion is 
under way. 

Again, as the formation and action of the enzymes 
begin with the ingestion of food and depend largely upon 
a sufficient blood-supply to the organs concerned as long 
as digestion continues, it is essential that the blood-current 
shall not be diverted from these organs during this period 
by excessive mental or physical demands, and that a con- 
dition of cheerfulness, repose, and rest should follow 
every meal. Regularity as to the time of meals and 
the avoidance of too great a tax upon any of the organs 
by over-indulgence or intemperance in eating are likewise 
both important matters and ones too often neglected. 

It is interesting to note that in certain members of the 
vegetable kingdom are to be found enzymes very similar 
to the normal ones of animal origin just considered, and 
that where the latter appear to be deficient in quantity or 
action these kindred ones may sometimes be used with 

1 Physiology of Alimentation, Fischer, p. 14. 



DIETETIC RULES. 239 

advantage. Thus, in the pineapple and in the papaw are 
ferments akin to pepsin or trypsin, and in the former 
another with the same action as rennin. All are familiar 
with the diastase of germinating seeds and its use in the 
making of beer; but not so common is the knowledge 
that other seeds contain fat-splitting enzymes much like 
steapsin. But though these extraneous digestants may be 
valuable and advantageous as therapeutic agents when an 
actual lessening or cessation of normal function makes 
them necessary, a caution should be interpolated here 
regarding the habit that may be acquired of depending 
too much upon them, especially by persons, otherwise 
healthy, whose digestive functions are somewhat defi- 
cient. A better plan is to bring those functions up to the 
normal in strength and vigor by the observance of 
hygienic rules and a well-considered method of life. 

The Amount of Food Necessary to Life and 
Health. Considerable work has been done to determine 
just what amount of the proximate food-principles the 
average person requires daily, and in this respect Mole- 
schott's tables are quite generally accepted, having been 
constructed from data gained by actual experiment and 
also by the continued observation of the effects of a 
number of dietaries. According to these tables, a man 
weighing 160 pounds and doing work equivalent to 300 
foot-tons per diem will need about 4.6 ounces of proteids, 
3 ounces of fats, 14.25 ounces of carbohydrates, and a 
little more than 1 ounce of salts. Vaughan believes that 
the average working-man in America requires daily, in 
round numbers, not less than four ounces of proteids, two 
ounces of fats, and eighteen ounces of carbohydrates. 
Chittenden has recently claimed that four ounces of 



240 FOOD. 

proteids is considerably more than is necessary to main- 
tain health, but the quantities given are the ones generally 
accepted by physiologists. 

It is essential that the proper proportion between the 
ingested nitrogen and carbon should be maintained, and 
this should be as one of the former to fifteen of the latter. 

In addition, the individual needs from 70 to 100 fluid- 
ounces of water daily, a good part of which, however, is 
normally taken with the food. It must be remembered 
that the above figures represent only average amounts, 
and that climate, amount of exercise, the size and activity 
of functional and excretory organs, and personal peculi- 
arities all serve to modify them in the case of any special 
individual. 

Other conditions not interfering too greatly, any com- 
bination of foods giving the above amounts of the proxi- 
mate principles at a reasonable cost will be an economical 
and healthful diet, provided such food is acceptable to the 
palate, is digestible, and contains nothing harmful to the 
system. 1 

Fothergill thinks that, as a rule, we take too much pro- 
teid food, especially in the form of meat, and that, though 
this goes in the main for tissue-repair, the latter requires 
much less of such food than we ordinarily suppose, and 
that the system does not need so very much of albumin 
or its equivalents. In this he may be correct to a certain 
degree, particularly as regards his fellow-Englishmen, who 
are notorious meat-eaters, and as to the facts that tissue- 

1 For such combinations, see Vaughan's Healthy Homes and Foods 
for the Working Classes; and Mrs. Abel's Practical, Sanitary, and Econo- 
mic Cooking. Both are essays published by the American Public Health 
Association. 



DAILY AMOUNT OF FOOD NECESSARY. 241 

waste is comparatively slight and that the body frame- 
work rusts out rather than burns out. But in addition 
to the statements already made that part of our nitro- 
genous food regulates the demand for oxygen, that part is 
doubtless a source of energy, and that still another part 
may be converted into fat we should also remember that 
animal food is a concentrated food, that much energy has 
been expended in converting and storing it from the 
vegetable world, that it is stimulating and often appetiz- 
ing, and that our digestive organs resemble more closely, 
at least as far as comparative weight is concerned, those 
of the carnivora rather than of the herbivora. These 
reasons, as well as the fact that animal proteids make up 
a considerable part of the only typically complete food 
that we have and which nature gives to tbe mammalian 
infant, would seem to indicate that we should be careful 
not to use too little nitrogenous food. On the other hand, 
the experiments of Chittenden and others tend to show 
that careful and thorough mastication automatically lessens 
the desire for and consumption of proteids, with a resultant 
increase in one's powers of endurance and freedom from 
fatigue. This does not prove, however, that the proteids 
that are consumed should necessarily all be from a vegetal 
source. 

The proteid portion of our food is obtained from the 
albumin of meat and fish, from milk and eggs, and from 
the gluten of cereals and the vegetable casein (albumin) 
of the leguminous plants, such as peas, beans, etc. The 
proportion and properties of the albuminous matter vary, 
of course, in each of these, and even in the same sub- 
stances under different circumstances ; but all should be 
taken into consideration and used interchangeably if we 

16 



242 FOOD. 

wish to obtain the greatest variety and benefit in feeding, 
together with due economy of expense. 

In this connection attention may again be directed to 
the notable fact that the leguminous plants, through the 
aid of certain species of bacteria, are able to absorb and 
store up in the form of proteids a considerable quantity 
of nitrogen from the surrounding atmosphere, and that 
these plants are, therefore, an important source of food- 
supply. 

The carbohydrates that furnish food to the body and 
are one of the sources of the heat and energy upon which 
muscular motion and vital activity depend, are practically 
all derived, with the exception of milk-sugar, from the 
starches, sugars, and gums of the vegetable kingdom. 

It has been, shown that much the greater part of the 
digestion of carbohydrate food is due to the action of 
the pancreatic enzyme amylopsin ; but we should not 
forget the action of the saliva, nor that thorough mastica- 
tion greatly assists the subsequent digestion by breaking 
up the starch granules and exposing them more freely to 
the action of the digestive juices. The latter object is 
also obtained by crushing the cereals and by cooking the 
starch-containing foods, for " grinding and cooking lessen 
the labor of the jaws and salivary (and pancreatic) 
glands." 

After the end-products (dextrose, levulose, etc.) of carbo- 
hydrate digestion have been absorbed from the alimen- 
tary canal, part of them, at least, are reconverted in the 
liver into animal starch or glycogen, and this portion be- 
comes a part of the body-store of fuel. Fothergill says : 
" The liver stores up from each meal so much glycogeu 
and gives it oif as required ; otherwise life would only be 
one dreary meal." Another and perhaps greater moiety 



FUNCTIONS OF THE CARBOHYDRATES. 243 

of the digested carbohydrates is converted into fat and 
stored as adipose tissue in various parts of the body, as 
a further reserve of fuel for any emergency. " Many 
authorities state that fat is formed directly from carbo- 
hydrates, and the weight of evidence appears to favor this 
view ; but whether it is so formed directly, or indirectly 
by retarding the metabolism of the fatty and proteid con- 
stituents of the food, there is no doubt that the consump- 
tion of carbohydrates results in the formation of fat within 
the body."' Moreover, "whatever the mixture of fate 
taken in as food, the fat of the body always has the same 
composition ; this fact agrees with the conclusion that the 
metabolism and deposition of fat in the body are due to 
cell activity, and that the fat comes in part from the pro- 
teid and part from the carbohydrate foods." 2 

Another important function of the carbohydrate foods 
is the formation by their metabolism in the body of lactic 
and other acids, which are of the greatest value in 
nutrition and in maintaining the normal reactions of the 
body-fluids. This is perhaps one of the chief reasons why 
fats and carbohydrates are not interconvertible in any 
prolonged dietary. 

Fat is essentially a compound of glycerin with one or 
more fatty acids, usually stearic, palmitic, and oleic. The 
digestibility of a fat largely depends upon its being fluid 
at the body-temperature ; therefore, as the melting-point 
of stearin is higher than this, the more of it that a fat 
contains, the less digestible and nutritious will the latter 
be. For this reason butter is more digestible than suet, 
lard than mutton-fat, etc., and the more assimilable cod- 
liver oil is that from which the stearin has been removed. 

Fat for food is derived from vegetable as well as ani- 

1 Notter and Firth, Treatise on Hygiene, p. 254. 2 Ibid., p. 253. 



244 FOOD. 

mal sources, many seeds and nuts and some cereals, as 
oats and corn (maize), containing much fat. By improved 
methods it is becoming possible to supply fats in purer, 
cheaper, and more agreeable forms, so that they may now 
be freely used even by the poor, the very class that needs 
them most. 

Under normal conditions it is probable that the body- 
fat or adipose tissue is almost never derived from the 
fat in food, but rather, as stated, from the proteids and 
carbohydrates ; but fat is also an essential part of tissue- 
structure, making up more than one-fifth of the solid 
matter of the brain and nerve tissues and one-sixfh of 
muscle, and possibly serving as fuel when the cell-con- 
tents are oxidized ; and it is probable that this fat of 
active tissues comes, at least in part, from that ingested as 
food. The writer has already hinted at the possibility of 
a combination of the newly absorbed fat with the argon 
of the atmosphere in the lungs and the consequent forma- 
tion of new cells or vital material. It is also probable 
that the digested fats or their acids enter into combina- 
tion with certain organic substances in the intestinal 
canal or in the lymph or blood, the resulting compounds 
being intermediate to ones still higher and essential in the 
structure of vital and active cells. Adami, 1 has shown 
that in fatty degenerations and other pathological proc- 
esses, as well as in many normal tissues, so-called " mye- 
lin globules" are to be found. These myelin globules 
prove to be compounds of cholesterin or of cholin or 
neurin with fatty acids. Moreover, lecithins, which are 
found in every cell and abundantly in the brain and 
nerves, as well as in blood corpuscles and lymph, dissociate 

1 The Myelins and Potential Fluid Crystalline Bodies of the Organism, 
Journal of the American Medical Association, Feb. 9, 1907, pp. 463-469. 



FUNCTIONS OF FAT IN THE DIET. 245 

in breaking up into fatty acids, glycerophosphoric acid 
and cholin, or, according to Carboue, into fatty acids, 
neutral fats and cholesterin. Beyond the lecithins is pro- 
tagon, " which is obtained especially from the brain and 
is a crystalline body containing lecithin and cerebrin." 
Thus it is seen how the derivatives from the fat in the 
diet become incorporated as component parts of the most 
complex tissues and organs. In any case, however, fat 
is a very important part of a man's diet, for not only 
is a small quantity necessary to the digestion of proteids, 
causing the formation in the body of larger amounts of 
fat than the quantity ingested and greatly improving the 
physical condition ; but it may be and, when occasion 
requires, undoubtedly often is used directly as fuel with- 
out first being stored in the tissues. 

As fat is a concentrated fuel-food, it is to be used freely 
when we want to keep the body warm or when we need 
extra force for any increased exertion. " On a diet rich 
in fat great muscular effort can be undergone with but 
little destruction of muscular tissue, and without increased 
urea discharge." The object of fat in the diet, then, 
may be said to be to give heat and energy as fuel, and, 
when necessary, to aid in the repair or building up of 
active tissue. 

The constructive property of fat is especially valuable 
in the treatment of all wasting diseases, especially phthisis. 
Fothergill emphatically declares that " the great food for 
the strumous is fat," and also says : " Whenever there 
is any tendency to tubercle the individual should learn 
to eat fat, just as a seafaring man learns to swim. As a 
physician to a chest hospital, I have learned to dread the 
announcement that fat is no longer taken, especially if the 
individual is of strumous build, with a small, narrow 



246 FOOD. 

chest. In my opinion, the existence of a considerable 
area of affected lung where the digestive powers keep up 
is less fraught with evil and less prognostically significant 
than intractable wasting with very little disease in the 
lung." In this connection, note that an excess of pro- 
teids in the diet causes a more rapid oxidation of fat, and 
that an excess of fat or of carbohydrates lessens the ab- 
sorption of oxygen and the oxidation of both fats and 
proteids. Also, that the free use of fluids is thought to 
favor an increase in the quantity of fat deposited in the 
body. 

Fat is practically indigestible in the stomach, and some 
stomachs cannot tolerate it, especially when taken with 
other food ; although usually a little fat assists in the 
digestion of proteids by stimulating the secretion of the 
gastric juice. Cases occur not rarely in which it is neces- 
sary that comparatively large quantities of fat should be 
ingested and yet in which there is apparently decided gas- 
tric intolerance of it. In such event success is often to 
be attained by giving the fat some little time after the 
regular meals, when the gastric digestion is approaching 
completion and the chyme is being passed out of the 
stomach to be further subjected to the action of the intes- 
tinal digestants. It may also be well to emulsify it 
partially or wholly, especially if there be faulty secretion 
of bile and pancreatic juice, and sometimes to disguise its 
taste with agreeable aromatics or flavors. In this way 
there is generally but little trouble in administering fats, 
even such as those which, like cod-liver oil, have a dis- 
agreeable taste and odor. Failing in this, we may still 
resort to inunctions, preferably of predigested or emulsi- 
fied fats, and often with considerable advantage, since it 
has been experimentally shown that after passing through 



FUNCTIONS OF DIFFERENT SALTS. 247 

the skin fat may be taken up by the subcutaneous lymph- 
atics and later be oxidized or metabolized almost as com- 
pletely as if it had entered the system by way of the 
intestinal canal and thoracic duct. 

Certain salts in definite proportions are necessary for 
the maintenance of health in the body. " Lime, chiefly 
in the form of phosphate, is absent from no tissue, 
and there is reason to think that no cell-growth can go 
on without it." Even the bacteria must have earthy 
phosphates for the purposes of growth. Chlorine, derived 
largely from the sodium chloride of food, is necessary to 
form the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, the chlo- 
rides also keeping in solution the globulins of the blood 
and body-fluids and helping to dissolve the albumin. 
Phosphorus is necessary in the formation of the lecithin 
of nerve-tissues, as well as for the phosphates above men- 
tioned, and those of potassium, magnesium, etc., which 
go to form bone. Potassium salts maintain the alkalinity 
of the solid tissues, and sodium salts that of the body- 
fluids. Iron is essential for the construction and nutri- 
tion of the blood-corpuscles, though small quantities of it 
are to be found in almost every other tissue. 

But not only must the above inorganic salts be given 
in proper supply, but also certain ones of organic nature, 
in order to prevent conditions of malnutrition or disease. 
Those especially which are changed to form carbonates, 
as the lactates, tartrates, etc., or their respective acids, 
help to maintain the alkalinity of the system and appear 
to be most essential, as a scorbutic condition seems to be 
inevitably created or fostered by their absence. There is 
also some evidence that certain gouty conditions may be 
due to the removal of the natural vegetable salts by im- 
proper methods of cooking. The fact of the carbohydrates 



248 FOOD. 

being an important source of these organic acids and salts 
has already been mentioned. 

Lastly, with many of our foods we require the addition 
of certain flavors, condiments, etc., which, though they 
have little or no real food-value in themselves in the 
sense of repairing tissue or furnishing energy, do much 
good, when not abused, by making the food more pala- 
table, by stimulating the secretion of the digestive fluids, 
and by acting as carminatives. These condiments should 
not be omitted from the food of the sick or convalescent, 
for they have a value of their own, and are " agreeable 
to the palate and, in moderation, good for the digestive 
organs." 

As a review of the preceding statements, the fol- 
lowing quotation, from Notter and Firth, 1 may be of 
value : 

" With regard to the necessity for all four classes of 
aliments, it can be affirmed with certainty that (putting 
scurvy out of the question) men can live for some time 
and can be healthy with a diet of proteids, fats, salts, and 
water. But special conditions of life, such as great exer- 
cise or exposure to very low temperature, appear to be 
necessary, and under usual conditions of life health is not 
very perfectly maintained on such a diet. It has not yet 
been shown that men can live in good health on proteids, 
carbohydrates, salts and water, without fat. 

" The exact eifect produced by the deprivation of any 
one of these classes is not yet known. An excess of the 
proteids causes a more rapid oxidation of fat, while an 
excess of fat lessens the absorption of oxygen and hinders 
the metamorphosis of both fat and albuminous tissues. 
The carbohydrates have the same eifect when in excess, 

1 Treatise on Hygiene, p. 256. 






MILK. 249 

and appear to lessen the oxidation of the two other 
classes. 

" It is generally admitted that the success of Banting's 
treatment of obesity is owing to two actions : the increased 
oxidizing effect on fat consequent on the increase of meat 
(especially if exercise be combined), and the lessened 
interference with the oxidation of fat consequent on the 
deprivation of starches. 

" Health cannot be maintained on proteids, salts, and 
water alone ; but, on the other hand, it cannot be main- 
tained without them." 

It will be impossible to go into details concerning all 
the articles commonly used as foods, but there are certain 
facts that should be well known and which cannot properly 
be omitted from a work of this kind. 

Milk is a typical food-stuff, complete in itself, in that it 
contains all the food-principles, and these in nearly the 
proper proportion, at least for infant life. The casein and 
albumin represent the proteids ; the cream, the fats ; and 
the lactose or milk-sugar is a concentrated carbohydrate 
all being in combination with sufficient salts and water. 

Milk should constitute almost the sole food of infants 
during the earlier months of life ; and that it is capable of 
sustaining adult life almost indefinitely, especially where 
there is little demand for heat or the expenditure of force, 
has been shown in numerous instances. 1 Coplin and 
Bevan mention the case of a patient who lived and thrived 
on milk alone for over thirteen months, and of another 
who lived for three years on the same diet. But the 

1 It is understood, of course, that in order to be a proper food for 
young infants, cows' milk must be modified so as to resemble human 
milk as nearly as possible, and so as to give the proportion of the respec- 
tive food-principles which each particular case may need. 



250 FOOD. 

limited proportion of carbohydrates, even though* concen- 
trated, is not all-sufficient for the maintenance of great 
vital activity, and for persons in ordinary life some addi- 
tion to the diet is necessary. 

The albumin of milk is coagulated by heat, but the 
casein, which constitutes the greater part of the proteid 
element, is clotted by an acid or by an enzyme, such as 
rennin ; arid as both acid and rennin are present in normal 
gastric juice, it would seem that the preliminary coagulation 
of casein was essential to its proper digestion. It should be 
remembered, however, that the casein of cows' milk forms 
a much harder and firmer clot than does that of human 
milk, and that the former should, therefore, never be 
hastily introduced into the stomach in large volumes, but 
should rather be taken slowly and preferably with other 
food which will help to divide the curd mechanically. 
In the feeding of children, an alkali, such as lime-water, 
when mixed with the milk, is thought to soften the curd 
and possibly to facilitate digestion. 

Outside of the body, fermentative changes due to certain 
bacteria may convert the milk-sugar into lactic acid, which 
coagulates the casein and "sours" the milk. Another 
peculiarity of casein is the tenacity with which it holds 
large quantities of phosphate of lime, one of the most 
valuable of food-salts. 

Sometimes it is advantageous or necessary to predigest 
milk for infants or sick persons, but if the digestion be 
carried beyond a certain point, the consequent peptones 
and alburnoses will give the milk a bitter and disagreeable 
taste. In the feeding of infants it must not be forgotten 
that the percentage composition of human milk is different 
from that of cows' milk, and that the latter will need 
dilution to decrease the proteid proportion, but an in- 



CARE OF MILK: CREAM. 251 

crease of fat and carbohydrates. As a child grows older 
and more active, it becomes necessary to add to the 
milk additional carbohydrates, which should be easy 
of digestion and soluble, milk-sugar and predigested 
starches in the form of maltose and its allies being pref- 
erable. 

Milk should always be kept as cool as possible and in 
closed vessels, not only to prevent the absorption of dis- 
agreeable odors and harmful gases, which it is very prone 
to do, but to exclude dirt and bacteria as well. As it is 
an excellent culture-medium, and as it is commonly liable 
to be exposed to contamination by organisms from many 
sources before it reaches the consumer, fermentative or 
other harmful chemical changes are almost certain to 
occur in it if the temperature conditions are at all favor- 
able. For this reason it is necessary that the greatest 
care should be used in the handling of the milk from the 
time it leaves the cow until it is used, and, for the feeding 
of children and whenever there is any possibility of it 
being the carrier of disease germs of any kind, it should 
be properly sterilized and then kept sterile until used. 
In fact, sterilized milk, modified to resemble the human 
secretion, will usually be superior to any other artificial 
food for infants, but the sterilization should always be 
done before fermentation has begun and harmful products 
have been developed in the milk. The sterilization may 
slightly alter the taste and other properties of the milk by 
coagulating the albumin, but it is doubtful whether it 
makes any real change in its digestibility. 

The cream of milk is fat in its most digestible and ac- 
ceptable form, and should not be removed from milk if 
the latter is to be used as food. If the milk seems to be 
too rich, it may be advisable to skim it, giving it in some 



252 FOOD. 

form or other with the regular meal, and reserving the 
cream until a couple of hours or so later, when gastric 
digestion is approaching completion. One may also often 
avoid the use of cod-liver oil and similar fats by taking 
cream either plain or whipped and flavored in this way 
some little time after the meals. 

Skimmed milk and buttermilk may be used freely as 
beverages, as both are refreshing and healthful with some 
little food-value; buttermilk is also acceptable to many 
persons on account of its lactic acid. " Koumiss " and 
" kefir " are both prepared from milk through the action 
of certain fermentative organisms, which also bring about 
a partial digestion of the casein. Each contains carbonic 
and lactic acids, though in different proportions, some pep- 
tones or albumoses, and a very little alcohol. They are 
wholesome, agreeable to most palates, and are usually 
retained and utilized by stomachs rebellious to almost all 
other foods. Furthermore, Metchnikoff l strongly advo- 
cates their use, since lactic acid and the micro-organisms 
that cause its formation are antagonistic to the microbes 
of putrefaction, which multiply only in alkaline substances. 
The beverages mentioned, therefore, tend to prevent the 
introduction into the intestinal canal of such putrefactive 
germs and the development there of ptomains and other 
poisonous products of decomposition which, when ab- 
sorbed into the circulation, give rise to the manifold 
symptoms of auto-intoxication. 

Milk may be a factor in the causation of disease in a 
number of ways. Large and tough curds of cows' milk 
in the stomach often cause mechanical irritation and indi- 
gestion, especially in young children, and the products of 
the fermentative action already referred to are a frequent 
1 The Nature of Man, chapter x. 



RELATION OF MILK TO DISEASE. 253 

source of serious intestinal disorders ; while if further 
decomposition occurs, a very poisonous ptomain, called 
tyrotoxicon, is apt to be developed and to cause even fatal 
results to those using the milk. This same substance is 
also liable to occur in any milk-product, sifch as cheese 
or ice-cream, and is usually the cause or agent in the cases 
of poisoning by such products that are so frequently 
reported. 

Again, the active principles of plants which the cow 
has eaten may be transmitted by the milk and produce 
their physiological effects. But a graver question is 
whether disease may be transmitted directly from the 
animals to man by this almost universal food-stuff. Every 
one knows that the milk from sick cows may cause 
marked disturbance of health, and there is fair evidence 
that cattle are subject to certain diseases, identical with 
or very similar to human maladies, the milk serving as a 
carrier for the contagium. 

Scarlet fever and diphtheria may be mentioned as 
diseases suspected of being transmitted in this way, and 
there seems to be no longer any doubt in regard to tuber- 
culosis. Though some authorities still question whether 
this latter disease can be thus transmitted unless the milk- 
glands themselves are affected, the great prevalence of the 
disease among cattle and experimental evidence both make 
it certain that milk is often the means of transmitting the 
infection, and many believe that by far the larger number 
of the many cases of infantile tuberculosis have origin from 
this source. The condemnation and destruction of all cattle 
that show symptoms of tubercular infection is certainly 
one of the most important and effective methods of check- 
ing the spread of and eliminating this very prevalent and 
deadly malady. The use of inoculations of tuberculin 



254 POOD. 

as a means of diagnosis has materially contributed to this 
end, for by its aid the presence of the disease is often 
indicated in many animals that have as yet evinced no 
physical signs of the disease. 

A British Royal Commission 1 have recently found, 
they say, "that milk containing bovine tubercle bacilli 
can, by feeding, produce tuberculosis in apes, and they 
have no doubt that many cases of human tuberculosis, 
especially in children, are due to this germ. The same 
conclusions had been reached by the United States Agri- 
cultural Department's investigators. The importance of 
proper bacteriologic analyses of milk and the inspection 
of dairies cannot be sufficiently emphasized, and it is very 
possible that while the milk of tuberculous cows may be 
comparatively innocuous to adults of fair resisting powers, 
it may be extremely dangerous to young children and 
those having a predisposition to tuberculous infection." 

Milk, like other food-stuffs, may also become a disease- 
carrier through infection from dust and disease germs, 
especially in the vicinity of places where infectious matter 
is allowed to dry, become pulverized, and to be taken up 
into the atmosphere by winds and air-currents. But a 
more common danger is through carelessness in handling 
by infected persons or by the admixture with it of water 
containing disease germs. Epidemics of diphtheria, scar- 
let fever, typhoid fever, and cholera have all been traced 
to contaminated milk-supplies, and it is a question whether 
many of the more or less local outbreaks in cities are 
not of this character. The writer is personally cogni- 
zant of five cases of undoubted scarlet fever that occurred 
almost simultaneously in one locality and in which, ap- 
parently, the only common source was the milk-supply. 

1 Journal of the American Medical Association, Feb. 9, 1907, p. 528. 



RELATION OF MILK TO DISEASE. 255 

He was unable to discover that there had been any illness 
either among the cattle or in the family of the milkman in 
question, but he has always felt that there was consider- 
able evasion in replying to the inquiries made. He also 
has knowledge of a localized epidemic of typhoid fever 
due to the infection of a common milk-supply. In this 
instance the dissemination of the disease was traced to 
the use of a rubber tube for siphoning the milk from a 
receiving can to the distributing jars, the dairyman and 
his assistants exhausting the air from the same by suction 
by the mouth. At the time this was discovered the 
dairyman and at least one of his men were ill with typhoid 
fever in a hospital. 

Newman states that since 1857 more than one hundred 
and sixty epidemics of typhoid fever have been traced 
to a polluted milk-supply and quotes Schuder as saying 
"that 17 per cent, of all typhoid epidemics are due 
to the consumption of infected milk." Moreover, New- 
man counts up "some thirty outbreaks of milk-borne 
diphtheria" and some seventy of scarlet fever, and 
also says that " there are three (other) very common 
diseases in which milk has been proved to play a not 
inconsiderable part, viz., thrush, sore throat, and diar- 
rhoea." He gives the following characteristics of milk- 
borne epidemics : l 

(a) There is a special incidence of the disease upon the 
track of the implicated milk-supply. It is localized to 
such areas. 

(6) Better-class houses and persons generally suffer 
most. 

(c) Milk drinkers are chiefly affected, and those suffer 
most who are large consumers of raw milk. 

1 Bacteriology and the Public Health, third ed., p. 218. 



.256 FOOD. 

(W) Women and children suffer most, and frequently 
adults suffer proportionately more than children. 

(e) Incubation periods are shortened. 

(/) There is a sudden onset and a rapid decline. 

(g) Multiple cases in one house occur simultaneously. 

(Ji) Clinically, the attacks of disease are often mild, 
contact infectivity is reduced, and the mortality rate is 
lower than usual. 

Experience is also rapidly accumulating that infecting 
germs are implanted upon or in many foods by house-flies, 
roaches, and other insects, as well as by larger vermin, 
and even domestic animals, such as dogs and cats. 
Typhoid bacilli having been obtained from the bodies of 
flies from a house where eight cases of typhoid fever had 
occurred, further experiments showed that flies fed v/ith 
these germs are able to convey them to other objects for 
as long as twenty-three days afterward. The bacilli have 
also been found on the heads, legs, and wings of flies five 
days after, and in their intestines nine days after such 
feeding. 1 Consequently, every effort should be made to 
protect food-supplies of all kinds from such contami- 
nation by insects and vermin, especially in time of epi- 
demics, for we should realize that though most of the 
cases of an epidemic may arise from a common source, 
such as a polluted water-supply, there will be numerous 
sporadic cases of which the infection has been transmitted 
as above. 

The possibility of milk as a source of danger to health 
having been shown, the lessons to be had are these : that 
not only must there be the greatest care in the handling 
and keeping of milk until it is consumed, but there must 
also be frequent and careful inspection of the animals 

1 Ficker, Archives of Hygiene, 1903, xlvi., p. 274. 



USE OF PRESERVATIVES: CHEESE. 257 

from which it comes and of their environment ; that no 
milk from any diseased cow should ever be used as food ; 
that wherever there is the suspicion or possibility of the 
milk being contaminated with disease germs, it must be 
thoroughly sterilized, and that any change from its normal 
condition should also forbid its use. 

Fortunately, good milk can almost always be had so 
cheaply and readily that no serious hardship inures by the 
strict observance of these rules, and the public should be 
educated to demand as well as to pay fairly for pure milk 
from healthy animals, these matters being even more 
important than that the quality, as shown by analysis, 
should always be up to a certain standard. 

Good milk in bulk should be opaque, of clear ivory- 
white color, should have no peculiar smell or taste nor leave 
any deposit on standing. Nor should it show any change 
in taste or appearance upon boiling, excepting the forma- 
tion of the slight skin of coagulated albumin due to the 
heating. Details regarding the composition of milk and 
the methods for its examination will be found in the final 
chapter of this volume. 

The addition of preservatives to milk is very common, 
and should be discountenanced, not only because they are 
usually added in quantities harmful or prejudicial to 
health, but also, and almost more important, because milk 
should be supplied to consumers in such a condition and 
state as not to need the preservative, and the presence of 
the latter is therefore suspicious. The same reasons 
also justify the condemnation of the use of artificial 
coloring-matters. The chemicals commonly used as pre- 
servatives are boric acid, salicylic acid, and formalde- 
hyde. Of these, the salicylic acid is probably most 
harmful, as the habitual iugestion of even a moderate 
17 



258 FOOD. 

quantity is apt to be deleterious to the kidneys. (See 
Chapter XIV.) 

Cheese is a most valuable food-stuff, and, as a milk- 
product, may be considered at this time. Good cheese 
usually contains twice as much nitrogen and three times 
as much fat as the same weight of meat, but many 
persons apparently find it difficult of digestion and can 
eat but little of it. This is perhaps because the nutri- 
ment is so concentrated and because, as usually eaten, it 
forms in the stomach a tough or pasty solid lump into 
which the gastric secretion cannot penetrate. Mattieu 
Williams has remarked that we habitually use cheese in 
the conditions in which it is most indigestible either in 
its raw state or cooked into a leathery mass and he asserts 
that if the cooking is such that it is thoroughly mixed 
with other articles of food, or if it be masticated with 
other food, so that this commingling of particles takes 
place, it will be found to be quite digestible by almost 
every one. He also advises the addition of a small 
amount of potassium carbonate in the cooking, as this 
favors solution of the casein and replaces that salt which 
is removed in the whey. As a food, only cheese made 
from whole milk, or from that to which extra cream has 
been added, satisfies all requirements, and skim-milk 
cheeses are decidedly less nutritious than those having the 
full proportion of fat. 

Butter, consisting as it does largely of the fat of milk, 
is a highly nutritious article of food and one of the most 
digestible of its class. It should be pure, sweet and free 
from rancidity, and while some of the substitutes offered 
in its stead are entirely wholesome, they should never be 
sold as butter or used to adulterate it. Neither should 
butter contain an excess of water nor of casein, as its 






EGGS: MEAT. 259 

food-value, weight for weight, is thereby accordingly 
lessened. 

Eggs yield almost their full weight of food in a con- 
centrated and very digestible condition, and are valuable 
on this account, as well as for their palatability and their 
value in the preparation of many dishes. Although con- 
taining practically no carbohydrates, they have sufficient 
food-material in themselves for the complete development 
of the living chick with the aid of nothing external 
except the oxygen which passes through the shell : the 
lack of the carbohydrate element, ordinarily one of the 
essential food-principles, is supplied by the heat from the 
mother hen or incubator, which is sufficient for the 
development and maintenance of the vital processes, since 
the unhatched creature wastes almost no energy in physi- 
cal activity. 

The white of egg is almost pure albumin with a little 
water and some salts ; the yolk contains about 30 per 
cent, of fat and some albumin. The albumin coagulates 
at about 170 F., but if it is exposed to a still higher 
temperature for any but a very short period of time, it 
becomes hard and difficult of digestion. A so-called 
" soft-boiled " egg is scarcely more difficult of digestion 
than an uncooked one, and is certainly more palatable to 
almost every one. 

Eggs, milk, and cheese may be made into many nutri- 
tious and palatable combinations which furnish food 
especially agreeable to the sjck, as well as to those whose 
appetite and digestive functions have not been impaired. 

Meat. Good meat, when deprived of its contained 
water, is a concentrated food, and is used not only on 
account of the large amount of nutriment it contains, but 
also for its rich and agreeable flavor. It represents much 



260 FOOD. 

vegetable matter converted into its present palatable and 
more digestible form by the metabolic activity of the ani- 
mals from which it came. It contains all the essential 
food-principles, the carbohydrates, however, being present 
as muscle-sugar or inosite and, as in milk, in very small 
proportion. In all fresh meat there is much water, but 
more in lean than in fat meat ; fat bacon contains 60 per 
cent. ; lean beef, from 75 to 78 per cent, of water. As 
the proportion of fat increases, the quantity of albuminoids 
or proteids decreases : thus, lean beef may have only 2 per 
cent, of fat to from 20 to 24 per cent, of proteids, while 
bacon has about 24 per cent, of fat to 15 per cent, of 
proteids. 

Of the varieties of meat commonly used, beef is the 
most nutritious. Good beef should not be too pale nor 
too dark, should show no blood-clots, have almost no odor, 
be elastic and not soggy to the touch, be well marbled 
with clean, white fat, and have compact flesh. Dark 
beef indicates that the animal was not properly bled, or 
has had some febrile disease ; wet and flabby meat, that 
it is approaching decomposition. The flesh of young 
animals is more tender than that of older ones, but not 
so digestible, partly because the young flesh cannot be so 
thoroughly masticated and the fibres so well separated. 
Therefore, veal is not so digestible as beef, nor lamb as 
mutton. " Young flesh is less stimulating and nutritious 
and more gelatinous than that of the adult." (Vaughan.) 
Veal should not be too pale, as that indicates ante-mortem 
bleeding or too young an animal. The calf should be at 
least one month old before the killing. 

Mutton is more digestible than beef, but not so nutri- 
tious. Its flavor is objectionable to some. Pork is an 
economical food for the poor man, as pigs of good stock 



FISH. 261 

store up three times as much of the food they eat as does 
the ox. The flesh is also easily preserved by drying or 
smoking, and ham and bacon are exceptions to the rule 
that dried meats are more indigestible than fresh ones. 
Again, pork fat furnishes much heat for cold weather by 
its oxidation and combustion in the body. But it must be 
remembered that it requires good digestive power to dis- 
pose of it, and that much pork is not to be advised for 
those of sedentary habits ; also that certain parasites are 
especially liable to infest the tissues of the pig and to be 
transmitted thence to man. 

The flesh of poultry is acceptable to most palates, if not 
too old and tough. White meat is more digestible than 
the dark, but not so nutritious or rich in flavor, since the 
latter is more highly nitrogenous. Chicken broth is more 
nutritious and more laxative than that made from mutton. 

Fish is not sufficiently stimulating to constitute the 
chief flesh diet of a people, but it furnishes variety, and 
on account of its contained phosphorus should be used 
largely by those subject to neurosal affections. White- 
meated fish are more delicate in flavor and more easily 
digested, but not so stimulating as those of red flesh. 
Some fish are poisonous, either by nature .or from inhabit- 
ing foul waters ; while any fish may become so if under- 
going decomposition. Shell-fish are particularly liable 
to develop poisonous ptomai'ns in the process of decom- 
position, and, consequently, only such as are absolutely 
fresh should be used. 

Oysters and clams which have been taken from a water 
contaminated by sewage may also convey the germs of 
infectious diseases, such as typhoid fever ; an instance of 
this having been demonstrated in the investigation of an 
epidemic of the latter disease in Connecticut, which was 



262 FOOD. 

reported by Prof. Conn, of Wesleyan University, and 
another in a similar epidemic at Atlantic City, N. J., 
in 1903. 

" The following meats should not be eaten : 1 . The 
flesh of all animals dead of internal diseases, or which 
have been killed while suffering from such diseases, or 
animals killed by overdriving. 2. The flesh of animals 
with contagious diseases that may be transmitted to man. 
3. The flesh of animals that have been poisoned. 4. The 
flesh of animals with severe infectious diseases, as pyaemia, 
etc. 5. Flesh that contains parasites that may be trans- 
mitted to man. 6. All putrid flesh." 

Competent inspectors are appointed by governmental 
and State authorities to examine the various meats offered 
for sale in large cities, and undoubtedly do much good in 
preventing the sale of meat that is unfit for use. Unfor- 
tunately, from false ideas of economy in many communi- 
ties, the authorized inspectors have been too few in 
number to be able to attend to all the work that should 
be done by them. 

Coplin and Bevan give the following as diseases which 
are to be specially guarded against : In cattle, epidemic 
pleuro-pneumonia, foot-and-mouth disease, contagious ty- 
phus, anthrax, tuberculosis, actinomycosis, Texas fever, 
dropsical affections, and indigestion. In sheep, braxy, 
variola ovina, black quarter, phthisis, fluke disease, and 
gid. In swine, anthrax, hog cholera, measles, and trichin- 
iasis. 2 It should also be remembered that the intestinal 
parasites, such as tape-worms and round-worms, often, if 
not usually, gain entrance into the system through the 
ingestion of meat containing them in their embryonal or 
larval stages. 

i Gei'lach. ' l Manual of Practical Hygiene, 1st edition, p. 132 et seq. 



THE COOKING OF MEAT. 263 

Therefore, in cooking meat, every part should be heated 
to at least 160 F. sufficiently long to destroy any disease 
germs or parasites it may contain, as very rare meat may 
still harbor these organisms in a living state. Tubercu- 
losis, for instance, may be incurred by eating flesh imper- 
fectly cooked, since its germs are quite resistant ; though it 
must be said that this disease is not so likely to affect the 
muscular tissues of an animal as are others of the maladies 
mentioned. The development of ptomai'ns in flesh may 
also make it quite poisonous, and this is especially likely 
to take place in meats that have been kept for a long time 
after killing or in those preserved in cans or other pack- 
ages that have been imperfectly heated or sealed. 

Meat is also cooked to improve it in appearance and to 
make it more agreeable to the palate and to aid digestion. 
As already stated, the effect of cooking upon muscle-tissue 
is " to loosen the bundles of fibrillse from each other so that 
they are readily torn asunder or crushed by the teeth." 
Perfectly cooked flesh is more savory than that which is 
either underdone or overdone. Meat cooked before rigor 
mortis sets in may be tender ; cooked during the rigor, it 
is tough and is masticated with difficulty ; after the rigor, 
it is more likely to be tender when cooked than at any 
previous time. 

In cooking meat, the ultimate condition in which we 
wish it to be should always be kept in mind, and pains 
should also be taken not to overcook or use too high a tem- 
perature. The processes pursued in making a palatable 
soup or broth, and in cooking meat so that it may retain 
all its juices, salts, and flavors, are radically different. In 
the first case, it is desired to extract as much of the soluble 
constituents of the flesh as possible, and to do this the meat 
should be cut into small pieces and allowed to remain for 



264 FOOD. 

a time in cold water, this afterward being very gradually 
raised to a temperature of about 160 F. In this way 
the juices exude and the salts and soluble parts of the 
meat are dissolved before the pores are closed by the 
coagulation of the albumin. On the other hand, if it is 
desired to retain the juices and savor in the meat, the piece 
should be as large as possible that the surface exposed will 
be small in proportion to the volume. The meat is to be 
first subjected to a temperature as high as possible that the 
surface may be cooked at once and the albumin coagulated, 
the juices being thus prevented from escaping by the seal- 
ing of the pores. In boiling, this end is attained by 
plunging the meat at once into boiling water ; in roasting, 
by having the fire or oven very hot. After this first heat- 
ing it is best to lessen the degree of heat somewhat, that the 
subsequent cooking of the interior may go on more slow.ly 
and the temperature within may not rise above the coagu- 
lating-point and make the fibres hard and stringy. Meat 
cooked in this way should be tender, juicy, and rich in 
flavor. Broiling or grilling is, of course, but a modified 
roasting. 

Soups and broths made of meat-juices alone and with- 
out the addition of other substances are stimulating rather 
than nutritious, as they contain little albumin, carbo- 
hydrates, or fat. However, if certain vegetables be added 
to the soup, the latter will gain sufficient of these food- 
principles and be highly nutritious, and such vegetable 
soups are of great value in all schemes of economic cook- 
ing. Bones are also of value on account of the salts, 
gelatin, and other soluble organic matter which they con- 
tain, and used with vegetables they make especially nutri- 
tious and easily digested soups. 

The meat from which soup has been made, on the other 
hand, is not all that is desirable, for though it still con- 



FRYING: BEEF-TEA. 265 

tains albumin and fat, it has lost its salts and savoriness 
and is unpalatable, and therefore not easily digested. It 
needs something a sauce or condiment, or preferably a 
meat-extract, for meat-extracts are nothing but thin soups 
evaporated to dryness or condensed. Or, if both soup 
and the meat be taken at the same meal, the things 
lacking in each are supplied by the other, and the needs 
of digestion and nutrition are supplied. 

Frying meat, as it is commonly practised, should not 
be tolerated, as it renders the albumin of the flesh ex- 
tremely tough, besides soaking it with fat or grease and 
thus greatly increasing the difficulty of its digestion. 
But frying by total immersion in boiling fat is an excel- 
lent way of cooking meats containing much water, and 
especially fish, for the boiling-point of fat or oil is very- 
high and the meat is instantly cooked on the outside, 
while the water in the interior, being converted into 
steam, prevents the ingress of fat by its expansion, cooks 
the albumin, and leaves the flesh in a light, flaky condi- 
tion. But the fat must be boiling hot when the meat is 
immersed, and the latter should not be allowed to remain 
in the former longer than just suffices for perfect cooking. 

Beef-tea as ordinarily made is only a thin extract of 
beef, the stimulating properties of which will be consid- 
ered hereafter. To make a beef-tea containing any con- 
siderable amount of nutriment, the meat from which the 
juices have been extracted should be dried, pounded 
fine, and all fibrous and tendinous portions removed. 
This pounded beef should then be added to the liquid 
extract, as then only is it really a food. Moreover, the 
mixture should always be seasoned, even for the sick, 
that it may be thoroughly acceptable to both palate and 
stomach. In making the extract, remember that the 
meat should be cut into very small pieces and added to 



266 FOOD. 

cold water in about the proportion of one pound of lean 
meat to one pint of water, and that the whole should be 
brought to the boiling-point very slowly. 

Cereals. The cereals form one of the most valuable 
kinds of food. All but rice contain considerable proteid 
matter from 10 to 20 per cent. beside carbohydrates, 
which predominate, some fat, and a goodly proportion of 
phosphates. Rice has only 5 per cent, of proteids to 75 
per cent, of starch, but it is easily digested, and is there- 
fore a valuable food for the young and the sick ; it is also 
well fitted as a chief food for dwellers in hot climates on 
account of its low heat-production. 

Wheat is the most nutritious cereal, and bread made 
from it is aptly called " the staif of life," since it is a 
food which, with the addition of a little extra fat and 
albumin, furnishes the essentials in proper proportion for 
the support of life. Barley closely resembles wheat in 
composition, and rye also is rich in nutriment, though 
perhaps a little more difficult of digestion than wheat. 
Oats are valuable on account of the large amount of fat 
they contain over 5 per cent. beside a full share of 
proteids, starch, and salts. But ordinary oat-meal needs 
vigorous digestive functions, and where the latter are 
lacking it is often productive of intestinal disturbance 
and irritation. Corn or rnaize, though not a true cereal, 
furnishes a valuable food with considerable fat ; it also 
contains a vegetable fibrin. The proteid constituents of 
the cereals are vegetable albumin, casein, and gluten, the 
last of these being most abundant in wheat and perhaps 
of the highest food-value. 

Grinding breaks up the grain and the starch granules 
of the cereals, aids in separating indigestible parts, and 
renders the starch much more suitable for cookiug, 
Wheat flour ground by the old method should be soft and 



CEREALS: BREAD. 267 

smooth, but that made by the new roller-process is more 
apt to be slightly granular. It should not be too white, 
as that indicates a lack of the proper proportion of gluten, 
and should contain everything but the outer husk of the 
grain. The inner coats should be retained in the flour, 
as they hold a considerable part of the gluten and practi- 
cally all of the grain salts. Corn-meal should be dry and 
powdery, or at least not too granular. Flour of any kind 
should be kept well covered in a dry place, and should 
contain no living organisms nor any adulterants. 

Bread is practically made of flour, water, and salt, 
though sugar, milk, etc., may be added to improve the 
flavor. As flour and water alone make a tough and in- 
digestible mass, bread is leavened to make it easier of 
mastication and digestion, and for this purpose either 
yeast, baking-powder, or aeration is employed. Yeast at 
the proper temperature rapidly converts some of the starch 
or sugar into carbon dioxide and alcohol, the former of 
which in escaping makes the dough porous and light, the 
walls of the cavities it produces being kept from collaps- 
ing by the tenacity of the gluten until the heat fixes 
them permanently. As the heat of baking dissipates both 
the gas and alcohol, from 10 to 12 per cent, of the weight 
of the flour used is lost by this method. Moreover, if the 
fermentation goes beyond a certain point, lactic and acetic 
acids are formed and the bread becomes " sour." Con- 
sequently, it has been advised that the yeast method be 
discarded, and that the leavening be done by means of 
baking-powders or aeration. Carbon dioxide is evolved 
from the baking-powders upon the application of heat and 
moisture, and the bread is made light by the gas, with no 
loss of food-substance, and, if the powders are pure, with 
nothing harmful added to the bread. There should be 
no alum or other adulterants in baking-powders uor 



268 FOOD. 

in the flour itself. Alum unites with the phosphates 
of the flour, rendering them insoluble and preventing 
their absorption from the alimentary tract. Bread may 
also be leavened on a large scale by forcing air or 
carbon dioxide under high pressure into the dough, or 
by mixing the flour with cold water heavily charged 
with the latter gas. In this method, also, there can be 
no loss of food-material nor any detriment to the bread, 
provided cleanly precautions are observed. 

Good wheat bread should be almost white, light, sweet, 
spongy, and with a crust easily broken and equal in bulk 
to about one-quarter of the loaf. As considerable of the 
starch has been converted into dextrine in the crust, the 
latter is more easily digested than the interior of the loaf. 
Fresh bread is not nearly so digestible as that which is 
a day or two old. As stated, bread needs only a little 
added fat and albumin to make it a perfect food, the 
former of which at least is almost if not quite sufficiently 
supplied in the butter which is commonly used upon it. 

Vegetables. The vegetables in common use are valu- 
able articles of food in that they give us the larger 
portion of carbohydrates and also furnish an agreeable 
variety from day to day. In the fresh state they contain 
considerable water from 75 to 90 or 95 per cent. the 
residue being mainly one or another of the carbohydrates. 
Potatoes exemplify this well, since they contain but little 
proteids and fat, and practically all of their solid matter 
is starch. On account of their customary cheapness and 
ease of growth and storage they are usually considered 
to be a valuable article of food for the poor man, but 
it should not be forgotten that other foods which are 
apparently more expensive may at times be actually 
cheaper than potatoes, both on account of containing 
those principle's which the latter lack and because they 



VEGETABLES. 269 

require less expenditure of digestive energy. (See chart, 
page 273.) Beets contain much sugar and are nutritious, 
palatable, and easily digested. Onions have considerable 
sulphur, and should be used freely when its need is indi- 
cated. Cabbage, cress, and other greens are especially 
valuable for the organic salts which they contain, and 
because they serve so well as relishes. Spinach is said to 
contain more assimilable iron than any other article of 
food commonly used. Celery and lettuce are nerve seda- 
tives, and asparagus acts as a diuretic and is thought to be 
of special benefit to the kidneys. 

A caution should be introduced here concerning the 
use of raw vegetables which may carry from the soil the 
germs of certain infectious disease and which latter have 
been derived from the fertilizers used or from other 
sources. There can be no doubt that these have been the 
cause of infection in certain cases, as of typhoid fever, 
and Metchnikoff has pointed out that while such germs 
are probably destroyed by the normal bacteria and reac- 
tions of the digestive tract, an abnormal condition of the 
latter may permit their introduction and the development 
of their specific maladies. 

The seeds of the leguminous group of plants, such as 
peas, beans, lentils, etc., contain from 22 to 25 per cent, 
of proteid matter in the form of vegetable casein, and 
almost 50 per cent, of starch. It is on account of this 
abundance of food-matter that they make such a valuable 
addition to soups and the like, and for the same reason 
they should also be used in any dietary where economy 
of expense is a factor. Green peas and beans are much 
more digestible than those that have ripened and dried, 
though, of course, they do not yield so much nutriment, 
weight for weight, as the latter. 

All vegetables should be so cooked as to retain their 



270 FOOD. 

salts, or else the water in which they are cooked and 
which contains these salts should be used in making soup 
or broth, to be served at the same meal with the vege- 
tables. This is especially advisable with regard to pota- 
toes and sweet potatoes, as their soluble salts have much 
to do with their digestibility. It is for this reason that 
a properly roasted potato is always better than a boiled 
one, and that steamed vegetables are both more palatable 
and more digestible than those which have been cooked 
under water. In fact, Mattieu Williams has even sug- 
gested that possibly one reason why gout is so prevalent 
among Englishmen is because they habitually eat boiled 
vegetables and throw away the water in which these have 
been cooked. The salts not only help in the digestion of 
the starches, but they furnish bases to unite with and 
render soluble the irritating acids that produce the gouty 
symptoms. It should also be remembered that the dried 
legumes should always be softened by soaking in water 
before cooking, and that they as well as other vegetables 
should be cooked, whenever possible, in soft water. 

Prepared starches, such as arrow-root, tapioca, sago, 
etc., are easily digestible, and therefore useful especially in 
the preparation of food for the young and the sick. 

Fruits are especially valuable on account of their 
flavor, acceptability to the palate, benefit to the diges- 
tion, and for their laxative action. Ripe fruits may be 
eaten freely : in most cases preferably early in the day. 
Fresh fruits are usually better than those dried or other- 
wise preserved ; but where the former cannot be had, the 
latter should be used freely, and all should be used 
throughout the year whenever possible. Green fruit, or 
that which has begun to decay, should not be eaten, for 
obvious reasons. 



ADULTERANTS AND PRESERVATIVES. 271 

Nuts are nutritious on account of the high percentage 
of fat that most of them contain, but are difficult of diges- 
tion unless thoroughly masticated. Recently pastes made 
from various nuts have been placed on the market, and 
are to be considered as an agreeable addition to our 
dietaries. 

Adulterants and Preservatives. Much might be 
written concerning the adulteration and sophistication 
of food-stuffs and of the addition of more or less harmful 
preservatives to food of a perishable nature. That the 
first is carried on to an enormous extent seems certain. 
The remedy appears to be in the passage and enforcement 
of stringent laws and the maintenance of frequent and 
rigid inspection by both State and governmental authori- 
ties, in the dissemination of information as to the adultera- 
tions practised and the means of detecting them, and in the 
utmost publicity and exposure in the case of transgressors, 
all of which, it is to be hoped, will now be effected by the 
provisions of the new Pure Food and Drugs Act and 
the means employed for its enforcement. 

This law, which became effective on January 1, 1907, 
provides " That for the purposes of the act, an article 
shall be deemed to be adulterated in the case of food : 
First. If any substance has been mixed and packed with 
it so as to reduce, or lower, or injuriously affect its quality 
or strength. Second. If any substance has been substi- 
tuted wholly or in part for the article. Third. If any 
valuable constituent of the article has been wholly or in 
part abstracted. Fourth. If it be mixed, colored, pow- 
dered, coated, or stained in a manner whereby damage or 
inferiority is concealed. Fifth. If it contain any added 
poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient which may 
render such article injurious to health. Sixth. If it consists 
in whole or in part of a filthy, decomposed, or putrid 



272 FOOD. 

animal or vegetable substance or any portion of an animal 
unfit for food, whether manufactured or not, or if it is the 
product of a diseased animal, or one that has died other- 
wise than by slaughter." 

In the opinions of the officials of the Department of Agri- 
culture, to whom the administration of the law is entrusted, 
several thousand chemists, inspectors, and collectors will 
be needed to carry out its provisions, necessitating an 
annual expenditure by the Government of about $750,000. 

As to the use of preservatives, the very extensive sale, 
heretofore, of these in localities where they would be most 
likely to be added to food indicates their employment, as 
does their continual discovery by direct analysis. In Bir- 
mingham, England, such preservatives were found in 20 
per cent, of 2300 samples of food examined, and boric acid 
in 5 per cent, of 1360 samples of milk. Such substances as 
boric acid, salicylic acid, and formaldehyde are commonly 
used, though it is frequently stated that more dangerous 
ones, such as hydrofluoric acid, are occasionally employed. 
And though it should in fairness be stated that it is pos- 
sible that, if only the minimum of such substances as boric 
acid and formaldehyde necessary to prevent putrefactive 
or fermentative changes in food be used, no harm to the 
human economy will result, 1 yet it is undoubtedly wiser 
to condemn the practice of adding chemical preservatives 
of any kind to food. There are two reasons for this : 

1 Eideal and Fullerton (Public Health, May, 1899) arrive at the fol- 
lowing conclusions: 1. Boric acid (1 to 2000) and formaldehyde (1 to 
50,000) are effective preservatives for milk for twenty-four hours. 2. 
These quantities have no appreciable effect upon the digestion. 3. These 
quantities have no appreciable effect upon the digestibility of foods pre- 
pared with them. 4. Formaldehyde in the proportion given above, so far 
as their investigations have extended, does not appear to have any in- 
jurious action upon animal tissues or nutrition. 



ADULTERANTS AND PRESERVATIVES. 



273 



1. There is no surety and very little probability that the 
minimum quantity of preservative consistent with safety to 
health will not be exceeded in most cases through careless- 
ness or recklessness. 2. That foods that apparently require 
such preservatives should be supplied to the consumer 
before the deterioration in them has begun, or else they 
should be sterilized by the more costly but safer employ- 
ment of heat. 

The following diagram may be of service in deter- 
mining the value of certain food-stuffs : 

FIG. 51. 



RELATIVE VALUE OF STAPLE FOODS. 




CHAPTER VII. 

STIMULANTS AND BEVERAGES. 

THE essential function and property of stimulants is to 
liberate some of the latent force of the body, and they are 
of use and value in sudden emergencies, to tide the system 
over important crises, to hasten a tardy convalescence, 
or perchance to whip up a flagging digestion so that it 
may the better prepare food for the repair of waste or 
the supplying of body-fuel. Those stimulants, excluding 
drugs, with which we are most concerned are of three 
classes, viz., nitrogenized vegetable stimulants, such as 
tea and coffee; nitrogenized animal stimulants, as beef- 
tea and meat-extracts ; and alcohol. All these are " force- 
liberators," and though alcohol may sometimes act the 
part, in more moderate measure, of a " force-producer," 
it is well to remember that they give scarcely anything 
at all to renew or replace the energy which they set free. 
This being so, care should always be taken that some 
food be supplied during or shortly after the stimulation 
produced by the agents in question, in order that the 
body may have a new store of force to replace that which 
has been liberated. Especially is this necessary in cases 
of sickness ; and as the soluble carbohydrates furnish fuel 
and consequent heat and energy to carry on the vital pro- 
cesses, these even more than other kinds of food are to be 
supplied, and will generally be well received and utilized 
by patients or others in need of stimulation. Again, just 
274 



TEA AND COFFEE. 275 

as we must not depend on stimulants alone to the exclu- 
sion of food, so also must we take care not to continue 
their use any longer than is necessary to attain our object, 
and likewise must not overstimulate or carry the action 
so far that the body is left poorer and weaker in force 
than before the use of the stimulants began. 

For example, beef-tea constantly stimulates the vital 
and nervous functions to greater activity, this requiring 
that either tissue or food be oxidized to produce the neces- 
sary energy. The stimulating factors in ordinary beef-tea 
are the meat-extractives, such as kreatin and kreatinine, 
which are products of the wear and tear of life, inter- 
mediate between living, active tissue and the final excre- 
tory matters, such as urea and uric acid ; hence they can 
have little, if any, real food- value. Beside these the beef- 
tea contains only the salts of the meat, which, though valu- 
able, are not force-producers. Therefore, unless food be 
otherwise supplied, the body-tissue must be consumed, 
and the result must eventually be in the end disastrous ; 
and yet this is what occurs to many patients through the 
mistaken idea that beef-tea is both nourishing and stimu- 
lating. When "whole beef-tea" (the recipe for which 
is given on page 265) is used, these remarks do not 
apply, since it contains some true food, though even here 
soluble or readily digestible carbohydrates may wisely be 
added. 

The active principles of the nitrogenized vegetable 
stimulants resemble very closely in chemical composition 
not only the meat-extractives, but also those drugs, like 
strychnine, which are used in medicine as tonics and 
cerebrospinal stimulants, and they act physiologically in 
a similar though milder manner. 

As beverages, tea, coffee, and cocoa supply fluid for the 



276 STIMULANTS AND BEVERAGES* 

system and that stimulation of the assimilative functions 
that causes a sense of comfort after their use, cocoa and 
chocolate having also the advantage of supplying some 
food. But these beverages may all be abused in their use 
as readily as may beef-tea or alcohol, and " tea-drunkards " 
and " coffee^drunkards " are not uncommon in hospitals 
and in private life. The teacup is not always the one 
that " cheers but does not inebriate." Women especially 
who drink much tea are apt to be nervous and dyspeptic, 
to have the " tea-drinker's heart," and to suifer from 
headaches and neuralgias. They depend upon tea to take 
the place of nutriment, and soon use up what little store 
of force they may have had, since they fail to replenish it 
with fuel-food. Men are more addicted to the use and 
abuse of coffee, and often manifest symptoms directly 
traceable to such intemperance. While caffeine increases 
heart action, and may be used to advantage in cases of 
cardiac debility, for the same reason it should be taken 
with caution and in moderation where the cardiac 
action is already too vigorous. Vogel has advised the 
use of strong coffee with sugar and cream as a tonic 
and food in debility accompanying the acute diseases 
of children. 

It is interesting to note that among all nervous, ener- 
getic people the use of some one or other of these stimu- 
lant beverages is common, and that "total abstainers" 
from alcohol seem instinctively to resort to tea or coffee. 
And while it is probably theoretically true that the 
healthy person would better abstain entirely from the use 
of stimulants, except in emergencies or at rare intervals, 
yet the almost universal desire for and use of them prob- 
ably indicate that under our present high tension of 
living there is a real physiological demand and need for 



ALCOHOL. 277 

them that perhaps should be satisfied in a measure, but 
with moderation and judgment. 

Alcohol. Liebig says that " alcohol stands only second 
to fat as a respiratory material/' but adds that " the same 
effect could be produced in the body by 'means of sac- 
charine and farinaceous articles of food at one-fourth or 
one-fifth the cost." Fothergill also holds " that the chief 
portion of the alcohol ingested undergoes consumption in 
the body/' but insists that " the question of ' alcohol as a 
food' can never be separated or divorced from that of 
* alcohol as a stimulant ' or as a force-liberator." 

Much undue importance has recently been given to 
some scientific investigations that served to establish the 
fact that alcohol can be and often is almost completely 
oxidized in the body, and that it produces therein prac- 
tically the same number of heat-units as when it is con- 
sumed outside. But the inference that it can therefore 
be substituted for and used with impunity in place of the 
usual carbonaceous foods is not justifiable, because the 
powerful physiological and ultimate pathological effect 
of the alcohol upon the higher nerve-centres and active 
tissues is ignored, because of the liberation of the body's 
latent force in excess of the energy which the alcohol sup- 
plies, and because even the above-mentioned investigations 
and experiments went to show that there was an actual 
detriment to the nitrogen-bearing tissues of the body dur- 
ing its use. 

Again, Liebig writes that " the use of spirits is not the 
cause but the effect of poverty. It is the exception to 
the rule when the well-fed man becomes a spirit-drinker. 
On the other hand, when the laborer earns by his work 
less than is required to provide the amount of food which 
is indispensable in order to restore fully his working 



278 STIMULANTS AND BEVERAGES. 

power, an unyielding, inexorable law or necessity compels 
him to have recourse to spirits. He must work ; but in 
consequence of insufficient food a certain portion of his 
working power is daily wasting. Spirits, by their action 
on the nerves, enable him to make up the deficient power 
at the expense of his body ; to consume to-day that quan- 
tity which naturally ought to have been employed a day 
later." This may also be the case where there is an 
abundance of food, but where it is improperly chosen 
for the needs of the individual or ruined by bad cook- 
ing. Education in the principles of the scientific and 
economical selection of food and its preparation may 
thus become a means of preventing those diseases that 
depend on or are aggravated by insufficient or improper 
food and consequent alcoholic excesses. The effect of 
alcohol upon the weak and savage races is much more 
marked and disastrous than upon the civilized and strong; 
so it harms the health of the underfed and overworked 
much more than it does that of the well-fed man of means 
and leisure, and affects women and children more than 
adult men. This latter point is to be remembered in 
practice. 

Remember also that, while alcohol is partially a respira- 
tory stimulant, it is a force-liberator and consumes the 
body-store, and unless given with other readily oxidizable 
food the risk is run of putting a patient "in a grave 
never dug by Nature," especially where there is already 
danger of the patient sinking from exhaustion. But it is 
just in these cases, when given with other food, that we 
find alcohol a valuable therapeutic agent. Give it with 
foods that produce heat and force i. e., some form of 
the soluble carbohydrates, as maltose, malt-extracts, milk, 
milk-whey, or even sugar. Where the assimilative powers 



EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL. 279 

are weak it may be advantageous or necessary partially or 
wholly to predigest these foods ; but above all, remember 
to replace what alcohol takes from the body, or physio- 
logical bankruptcy will ensue. Note also that, though 
alcohol may be in one sense a food, it is a very costly one, 
and that intoxication must occur long, before a man could 
get the equivalent of a full meal. 

Alcohol is to be used in sickness practically to sustain 
the vital powers, to meet emergencies, and to lift the 
patient over obstructions in the road to health ; and such 
use requires a thorough knowledge of its action coupled 
with the highest judgment. 

In malt liquors there is usually considerable maltose, 
thus combining with the alcohol a soluble carbohydrate 
of the highest value, and these brewed ales, etc., may 
often be used with benefit as tonics, especially where con- 
valescence is protracted. The stronger distilled liquors 
are diffusible cardiac stimulants, and are especially valu- 
able in emergencies, but the continued use of them must 
only be advised with great caution. Fothergill gives two 
excellent rules for the use of alcohol by the healthy : 
" First, never have alcohol in the brain when it has work 
to do ; second, a little alcohol betwixt a man and past 
trouble is permissible ; but it is not well to put a little 
alcohol in front of a coming trouble." Murchison, in his 
work on Fevers, lays down these rules for practice, which 
it would be well for all to adopt : " What are the con- 
ditions of the animal economy in which alcohol may be 
of positive use ? That there are such conditions, I believe 
cannot be denied by any one who has honestly studied the 
subject ; but they are not the conditions of perfect health. 
It is especially when the circulation is weak or sluggish 
that a daily allowance of alcohol may do good. Thus : 1. 



280 STIMULANTS AND BEVERAGES. 

Alcohol is useful in the course of most acute diseases 
when the organs of circulation begin to fail, as they are 
apt to do. A moderate quantity usually suffices. The 
large quantity still sometimes administered may do harm 
by inducing congestion of internal organs. 2. In con- 
valescence from acute diseases or from weakening ail- 
ments, when the circulation remains feeble and the tem- 
perature is often subnormal, alcohol is useful in promoting 
the circulation and assisting the digestion. 3. In persons 
of advanced life the circulation is also often feeble, and 
a moderate allowance of alcohol often appears to be bene- 
ficial. All other conditions of the system marked by 
weakness of the muscular wall of the heart, whether 
permanent or transient, are usually benefited by alcohol." 
Alcohol may thus be of value in forestalling or overcom- 
ing the depressing influences of the toxins produced in 
certain of the infectious diseases, and in shock. In the 
latter, however, especially when due to accident or to 
some sudden cause, much harm rather than good may be 
done by the administration of excessive doses of alcohol, on 
account of their effect upon the depressed vital centers, and 
it is well to remember that better and speedier results will 
probably follow small doses sufficiently frequently repeated. 
Alcohol is a good servant, but a bad master. King 
Chambers says : " Let alcohol be taken never as a stimu- 
lant or preparative for work, but as a defence against 
injury done by work, whether of mind or body. For 
example, it is best taken with the evening meal or after 
toil. Let the increase in the desire for and the power of 
digesting food be the guide and limit to the consumption 
of all alcoholic liquids. Let the forms be such as contain 
the least proportion of fusel oil. Let all with an heredi- 
tary tendency to hysteria or other functional diseases of 



BEVERAGES. 281 

the nervous system refrain from its use altogether, even 
though as yet in good health." 

Beverages. To comment individually upon the mul- 
titude of non-alcoholic and non-stimulating beverages 
that are now more or less generally used, is both imprac- 
ticable and unnecessary, nor will any attempt to classify 
them be of much value. For the most part they serve 
only to please the palate ; though if in this way they 
bring about a greater ingestion of fluids when these are 
needed, their service cannot be considered a vain one. 
For it has already been stated that an ample supply 
of drinking-water or other fluids taken daily and habit- 
ually is essential to the satisfactory removal of the 
various waste matters from the body, and that without 
it the latter may readily develop conditions favoring 
disease. 

Moreover, it is true that certain gases and salts held in 
solution in some beverages, such as mineral waters, in- 
crease this excretory action, and may be highly beneficial 
in appropriate cases ; but it should be a matter of caution 
that where such therapeutic results are thought to be 
necessary, competent medical advice should be the guide 
as to the kind and quantity of the agents used. This 
comment is justified by the fact that of late many sub- 
stances possessing decided physiological power have been 
advertised and sold in the form of one beverage or 
another directly to the laity, who, being incompetent to 
judge as to whether or not such substances are actually 
needed in their individual cases, may do themselves 
much harm in this way. 

Only such beverages, then, as are quite simple in their 
nature or as are advised by competent medical authority 
should be used. If they are artificially made and water 



282 STIMULANTS AND BEVERAGES. 

is the solvent fluid, as it will be in most cases, there 
should also be certainty that it comes from a clean and 
safe source, lest it carry the germs of disease. There is 
no doubt that frequently the cheaper bottled drinks which 
are dispensed so generally are made from water that has 
been liable to more or less dangerous pollution, and there 
is the additional risk that arises from the imperfect cleans- 
ing of the bottles for these liquids which have been re- 
turned to be refilled. A little thought as to the dangers 
which do exist in relation to this matter will be convinc- 
ing as to their gravity. 

Many of the most popular beverages are charged with 
carbon dioxide under compression, and the fact that so 
much of this gas can be taken into the system in this way 
without apparent harm, and its free elimination, would 
seem to be additional evidence that it cannot in itself be 
so very harmful in the atmosphere, even when in propor- 
tions considerably greater than the normal. 

In conclusion, it may be said that a free use of all such 
beverages as are known to be clean, safe, and wholesome 
will probably be found to be entirely favorable to health 
unless there be some contraindicating reasons peculiar to 
the individual himself; and that their substitution, when- 
ever possible, in place of the alkaloidal and alcoholic 
stimulants is to be commended on hygienic as well as 
other grounds. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

THE proper consideration of this subject demands an 
ample volume rather than the limits of a single chapter, 
for the ultimate aim of all sanitary work is the preserva- 
tion and betterment of the health of the individual, and 
beside, the factors that aifect the well-being of the person 
are so multitudinous in their number and in their phases 
that no brief discussion can comprehend them all. 

However, much that pertains to personal hygiene and 
that requires no repetition for its application has already 
been given in the preceding pages; so that it is hoped 
that if the reader will exercise that virtue of common- 
sense and reflection that is so essential in this study, the 
remarks to be added will be helpful in suggestion and in 
answering many questions, even though they may not be 
considered in any way as complete discussions of the 
respective themes. 

Each age has its own requirements, and that which 
may be entirely satisfactory or permissible at one time 
may not be so at another. To attain the best results it 
will often be necessary even to anticipate with prophy- 
lactic measures the birth of the child ; and broadly 
speaking, much of the welfare of future generations lies 
in the care of those now living. 

One of the gravest sociologic problems of the day is as 
to how far the State is justified in restricting or preventing 

283 



284 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

the propagation of the defective or degenerate of the 
human race; and though the time may not be ripe for 
the law to take positive action in these matters, it is the 
duty of every sanitarian to use his utmost efforts to the 
end that only the healthy and the normal may continue. 

The advances in physiologic and biologic science in re- 
cent years have done much for all humanity, but in no 
respect, perhaps, have they been of more service than in 
determining the great influences of heredity and en- 
vironment and in establishing the fact that the presence 
or absence of disease is oftentimes, if not always, due as 
much to predisposing conditions and the physical status of 
the individual as to external and exciting causes. "What 
may cause only a trifling ill in one may bring about most 
serious evils in another whose estate is not so fortunate. 

Life has been defined as the power of an organism to 
adjust continually its internal conditions to its external 
conditions, and as long as this is done satisfactorily life 
persists. The secret of personal hygiene and health, then, 
must lie in determining the relationship between the in- 
ternal and external conditions of the individual's organism. 

" Know thyself" is advice good for the body as well 
as for the mind or soul, and knowledge of the right kind 
can do no harm. He who knows his personal and physi- 
cal nature and acts accordingly is well equipped to fight 
against the ills of life, and the study of the relationship 
above referred to will help the thinking man so to care 
for himself that in all probability his days will be pro- 
longed. 

But a caution or two must be interpolated here. It is 
well known that " expectant attention " too persistently 
directed toward a particular organ may lead to decided 
alterations or disturbances in the functions of that organ ; 



IMPORTANCE Of SELF-STUDY. 285 

and again, unless one well understands the mysteries of 
human physiology, a little imperfect or insufficient infor- 
mation in this respect may lead to the assumption or pur- 
suit of habits and practices actually dangerous to health. 
Too much ill-advised care and attention may be just as 
full of risk as too little, and physiological egotism without 
a sound basis may have a bitter reward. 

What is needed is that each one should study care- 
fully the phenomena of his daily life, should determine 
accurately the purpose and reason of each of the respec- 
tive functions, and then, not forgetting their interde- 
pendence upon one another and that all should work in 
harmony, should endeavor to do that which will best 
facilitate the functional activity with the least expenditure 
of energy. 

There are a number of ways in which the study of per- 
sonal hygiene may be advantageously pursued, but for 
practical purposes one of the best is to consider it with 
respect to the main groups of organs and functions of the 
body, keeping always in mind, however, the correlation 
of these, and that no part of the body can be entirely 
independent of the rest. 1 Nevertheless, the hygiene of 
infancy is a study by itself, for it is in that epoch of life 
that the plastic constitution can be and is moulded most 
readily by all the influences of the environment, whether 
for good or evil, and it is at that time that salutary efforts 
are to be made with greatest hope of success and eventual 
good. 

Moreover, the principles of personal hygiene may be 

1 This method has been followed in Pyle's Manual of Personal Hy- 
giene, to which the reader is referred for an admirable discussion of the 
subject, which must be treated all too briefly here. The writer would 
also recommend Starr's Hygiene of the Nursery to all who desire specific 
and authoritative information concerning the young. 



286 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

more readily taught to and inculcated in the young, but 
with much greater difficulty can we affect the mature or 
aged ; for we are all creatures of many habits, and in the 
mature adult the impress of these may resist to the utmost 
any and all endeavors to modify or remove them. 

Too much stress cannot be laid upon the fact that it is the 
constitution, the nature of the inherent tissue, that controls 
or modifies the inception, development, and progress of 
many of the ills of life, and that whether this in its normal 
and highest vigor be a bequest of heredity or be attained 
only by the most careful attention to details in the practice 
of the art of hygiene, it should always be looked upon as 
the most valuable physical possession of the individual. 

To state again what has already been written : " The 
essence of sanitation is to secure perfect health, to increase 
the inherent power to resist noxious and harmful influ- 
ences, and to make all the surroundings and environments 
of the body pure and free from depressing factors." 

With this preface, the following discussions are added 
in the hope that they may be of assistance in determining 
the way of right living and in securing the welfare and 
health of each individual. 

Heredity. 

In the broadest sense heredity is a series of character- 
istics possessed by a fused cell, formed from two cells 
furnished by respective parents, which carries on its 
evolution under certain governing impressions indelibly 
stamped by the two parental lines of descent ; but, in the 
ordinary use of the term, it may be defined as the trans- 
mission to the offspring from parent or ancestor of a trait, 
type, temperament, characteristic, or predisposition which 



HEREDITY. 287 

has a governing or influencing effect upon the growth or 
nature of that offspring. This transmitted impression 
may be either for good or for evil. 

" It shows an incorrect conception of the law of hered- 
ity to look for a return of identical phenomena in each 
new generation." 1 Also, " we do not mean exclusively 
by heredity the very complaint of the parent transmitted 
to the children, with the identical symptoms, both physi- 
cal and moral, observed in the progenitors. By the term 
heredity we understand the transmission of organic dis- 
positions from parents to children." 2 In true hereditary 
disease the faulty conditions must be transmitted in the 
germ-plasm, and not be due simply to accidental factors 
affecting the embryo during its foetal development, the re- 
sults of the latter being congenital rather than inherited. 

Consequently, as hygienists, we must use the influence 
and power that we have to further the transmission of 
beneficial or elevating characteristics only, and to prevent 
the bequest of harmful influences and hereditary diseases 
to the generations to come. " The germ of the unborn 
infant must be complete and untainted in all its nature, 
otherwise we cannot hope for a vigorous and perfect 
growth or development." 

As the family is the foundation of the State, and society 
is a congregation of men for the purpose of acquiring 
greater power and more comforts through mutual co- 
operation, the latter, whether domestic or civil, has some 
right to make men understand that they must care for the 
health of the generations to follow, and to enact reasonable 
laws looking to the prevention or obliteration of transmis- 
sible infirmities. And history seems to show that no great 
nation has ever been destroyed or overwhelmed until its 

1 Moreau, Psychologic morbide. 

2 Morel, Traite des Degenerescences. 



288 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

people had first neglected or abused the laws of hygiene, 
heredity, and sociology. 

Marriage. We find that a married couple have gener- 
ally, beside themselves, the welfare of five human beings 
within their keeping. To produce healthy children and 
ones not prone to disease, both parents should possess good 
constitutions, and they should take great care not to weaken 
these by excesses of any kind, physical or mental, nor, as 
far as lies in their power, by any chronic disease. It is 
evident that children of parents that have been conscien- 
tious observers and followers of Nature's laws must have 
a better chance for health and superiority all their lives. 

In this climate the proper age for marriage is consid- 
ered to be about twenty-four or twenty-five for the man, 
and nineteen or twenty for the woman, though this must 
vary with the state of development of the parties con- 
cerned. Some of both sexes mature at a considerably 
earlier period than do others, and it would be unjust to 
say that they were not fit for the duties of marriage till 
they reached the age of the maturing of slower-growing 
ones. Usually, however, before the ages given, develop- 
ment is not complete and the whole organism is in a 
transition state. We know that the use of any organ be- 
fore it has attained its complete growth or development is 
very apt to cause exhaustion, or perhaps premature de- 
generation of that organ, and we cannot but believe that 
children developed in immature sexual organs must be 
deficient in vital force and energy. It is often noticeable 
that a child apparently strong and vigorous may have but 
little power to resist disease or may even be strongly predis- 
posed to some infirmity ; in such cases there will likely be 
some defect or taint in the parent stock. 

Distinguishing characteristics are more likely to be 



INHERITED AND CONGENITAL DISEASES. 289 

transmitted in the early married life of parents, because 
their organs and forces are then more vigorous ; but if a 
couple marry when quite young and before their own or- 
gans are fully developed, their elder children may be more 
deficient, mentally and physically, than their later ones. 

Late marriages are not likely to be so fruitful as earlier 
ones, possibly owing to the increased difficulty of parturi- 
tion on the part of the mother and her consequent unwill- 
ingness to undergo the ordeal more than a few times. 
But healthy middle-aged persons, who have married late, 
may have even healthier children than those who have 
married too early. 

In features, constitution, sense-organs, shape of head, 
etc., the child is most apt to resemble the father ; while 
it will likely follow the mother in the shape of the trunk 
and in the formation of internal organs. The character 
and mental qualities of the child may come from either 
parent or from both. Maternal impressions, habits, or 
conditions during pregnancy, especially if continuous or 
persistent, undoubtedly often have a marked effect upon 
the coming infant. So also do maternal toxemias or 
other depraved conditions of the mother's system, though 
occasionally such influences apparently do not do as much 
harm as we would anticipate. There may, however, even 
be actual and direct infection of the child through the 
placenta. In fact, " intrauterine infections and modifica- 
tions of the foetus are more frequent and more important 
than conditions of true inheritance of disease." l 

Inherited and Congenital Diseases. Hereditary in- 
fluences are generally transmitted directly from parent to 
child, but we occasionally find a cessation of a trait or 
predisposition for one or more generations and then a 
recurrence. To such a peculiarity, we give the term 

McFarland. 
19 



290 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

atavism. "A family history of less than four generations 
has only a limited value." 

An hereditary malady may be actually existent at birth 
and be transmitted directly from parent to offspring 
as syphilis, structural deformity, mental or nervous defect, 
etc. ; or there may only be an inherited predisposition to 
the disease, as toward tuberculosis, etc. Physicians have 
thus a twofold duty : first, to do all they can to guard 
against the transmission of such diseases ; second, to 
combat the disease or any tendency to it as soon as the 
first symptoms thereof are discovered or it is suspected 
in the child. The first duty can be accomplished, 
theoretically, by preventing generation and production 
on the part of those unfit to produce healthy offspring, 
and practically, within certain limits, by fighting the 
causes and their effects in the parent individual, especially 
at the ages or times when these have the greatest force or 
are most apt to manifest themselves. For the second, the 
child must be immediately placed in the most favorable 
hygienic surroundings, and everything possible done to 
prevent the further development of the disease or predis- 
position. In many cases such early interference will 
accomplish much good, and the disease may be averted 
entirely. Especially is this true of those inheriting the 
tuberculous diathesis. 

Too often the child of a tuberculous parent is exposed 
after birth to the same conditions that served to develop 
the disease in the parent, and its inherited predisposition 
to the malady is intensified by the environment of a damp 
and undrained soil, a dark and un ventilated house, etc., 
and by insufficient or improper food, until infection is 
all too easily acquired, and the child that might have 
been saved becomes an early victim of the ignorance, 



INHERITED AND CONGENITAL DISEASES. 291 

carelessness, or neglect of those who should have fostered 
it with extremest care and solicitude. On the other hand, 
the apparently complete eradication of the transmitted 
predisposition from many children whose inheritance has 
been as bad, but who were promptly removed from the 
unsanitary environment of their birth, shows how much 
this one influence may work for good. 

The most important of the supposedly hereditary or 
transmissible affections are syphilis, tuberculosis, scrofula, 
cancer, gout, hysteria, epilepsy, certain physical deform- 
ities, certain skin diseases, insanity, and criminal tenden- 
cies of various kinds. But do not forget that what may 
appear to be a direct and actual inheritance of a disease 
may only be the production of the disease in that person 
by the same agents, environments, and morbid conditions 
as caused or favored the disease in the parent. However, 
even here there is very possibly a transmitted predisposi- 
tion to the acquirement of the disease, rendering it all the 
more easy for it to manifest its symptoms upon slight prov- 
ocation. Therefore, there should be no marriage between 
persons inheriting predispositions to the same disease, espec- 
ially if they be relatives, and "a person affected with heredi- 
tary or well-marked constitutional syphilis, or having a 
strong consumptive taint, or tendency to mental unsound- 
ness, should not marry at all." 

Defective eyesight is very apt to be transmitted to 
children, and the latter should be carefully examined and, 
if necessary, fitted with proper glasses before being placed 
at school or at any work requiring much use of the eyes. 

Infirmities which do not prevent marriage from being 
fully accomplished, or which do not tend to the degenera- 
tion of the offspring, are not good reasons alone for for- 
bidding marriage, but all that have such a tendency are. 



292 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

A man should not marry a woman too far advanced in 
life, nor one that is very feeble, delicate, or deformed, 
especially as to the chest or pelvis. Hysteria, convul- 
sions, and epilepsy due to organic disease should prevent 
a woman from marrying, though some extremely nervous 
and hysterical women are much benefited by marriage 
and have healthy children. So with many women who 
have uterine congestions and displacements before mar- 
riage. 

Evidence seems to indicate that marriage between rela- 
tives is reprehensible, and that the danger increases with 
the nearness of the relationship, since the children of such 
marriages are prone to disease and to defects in the sense- 
organs, especially the eye and ear, or in mental qualities. 
But upon closer investigation it is probably more nearly 
true that " the objection to consanguineous marriages lies 
not in the bare fact of the relationship (of the parties con- 
cerned), but in the fear of their having similar vitiations 
of constitution." Few families or persons are absolutely 
healthy or free from taint, and " it may safely be asserted 
that when both parents are possessed of a physiologic or 
pathologic congenital characteristic, that characteristic is 
almost certain to be repeated in an aggravated form in the 
offspring." l We can, accordingly, easily understand that 
" in consanguineous marriages the real danger is in the 
strong probability that both parents have some distinct 
taint of degeneration, which is liable to be increased in 
their children, but which might possibly disappear if each 
married a person not bearing the same or some closely 
allied character. The marriage of two individuals of the 
phthisical type, whose families were strangers to each 
other, would be as productive of evil as the marriage of 

1 Lawrence Irwell, Philadelphia Medical Journal, July 21, 1900. 



EXERCISE. 293 

first cousins who were phthisically inclined." l However, 
any advice on the subject must depend upon the special 
circumstances in each case, but chiefly on the health and 
degree of relationship between the parties. 

Exercise. 

Exercise is generally considered to mean simply the 
action of the voluntary muscles, but it has a wider mean- 
ing than this. Every organ in the body is capable of 
being exercised in some way or other ; and if not prop- 
erly exercised, an abnormal state is almost certain to 
ensue. " Life is organization in action." Each organ has 
its own special stimulus, and if this be normal in amount 
and character, we should have health. Also, the trained 
use of an organ makes it more effective in the performance 
of its functions. But deficiency in exercise favors a lack 
of nutrition, wasting in size, and eventually degeneration 
of tissue ; while, on the other hand, too much work may 
favor hypertrophy and tissue degeneration. 

Proper muscular exercise is highly beneficial to health, 
and in the end actually necessary to the proper perform- 
ance of functions in other organs; it is consistent with 
and necessary to health. But, to be of value, the exercise 
must not only be regular, but must also consist of move- 
ments of sufficient force to necessitate energetic contraction 
of the muscles ; we must do work. This necessitates resist- 
ance as an element, and we may define physical exercise 
as voluntary labor. We need the resistance to obtain the 
proper contraction of the muscles, the contraction for 
their disintegration, the disintegration for their renewal, 
etc. ; for we know that upon the constant destruction 
and disintegration of tissues depends their subsequent 

1 Lawrence Irwell, Philadelphia Medical Journal, July 28, 1900. 



294 PHYSICAL HYGIENE. 

renovation, and that the strength and vigor of all parts 
of the body and of the whole depend upon its newness. 

Beside the fact that proper physical exercise makes the 
voluntary muscles larger, harder, stronger, and more 
quickly responsive to the will, and that it increases the 
functional capacity of the involuntary muscles employed, 
it largely promotes health and strength by quickening the 
circulation and increasing the respiratory powers. Dur- 
ing muscular action (contraction) there is a conversion of 
potential energy into motion, a call for more food, an in- 
creased demand for and consumption of oxygen, and an 
increased production of and elimination of carbon dioxide 
and other waste matters. 

This increased demand for oxygen and elimination of 
carbon dioxide necessitate increased action of the respira- 
tory organs the lungs, and this is one of the greatest 
advantages of physical exercise. The respirations are in- 
creased in frequency and depth, the lungs expanded, the 
air vessels flushed out and refilled with each inspiration. 
Doubtless many cases of pulmonary tuberculosis could be 
prevented or cured if only people could be taught to take 
sufficient and suitable exercise and to breathe properly, for 
we rarely find the lungs fully expanded except in the out- 
door worker or athlete. Consequently, the movements of 
any given exercise should be with speed and force sufficient 
to quicken and deepen the respiration ; and, conversely, 
if any severe exercise is to be undertaken or a course of 
training begun, special care must be had to develop the 
lung capacity. 

A man walking at the rate of four miles per hour in- 
spires five times as much air as when reclining at rest, 
which latter amount is, for an adult, about 480 cubic 
inches per minute. Or, as Pettenkofer has shown, a man 



BENEFITS FROM PHYSICAL EXERCISE. 295 

on a day of rest absorbs 25 ounces of oxygen and throws 
off 32 ounces of carbon dioxide and 29 ounces of water ; 
on a day of work he absorbs 33.6 ounces of oxygen and 
throws off 45 ounces of carbon dioxide and 72 ounces of 
water. In other words, the elimination of carbon on a 
work-day is more than three-fourths of a pound. 

Muscular exercise is necessary, therefore, for the proper 
elimination of waste carbon from the body, and, as the 
action of the muscles is checked and lessened if the 
carbon dioxide produced by their action is not immediately 
carried off by the blood and eliminated by the lungs, it 
follows that during exercise there should be nothing to 
impede the circulation or the action of the chest and 
lungs, and that all tightness of clothing, especially about 
the waist, neck, and chest, should be avoided. Moreover, 
inasmuch as the amount of carbon dioxide and other 
waste matters eliminated is so very much increased during 
exercise, a much larger amount of pure air is needed, and 
all rooms and buildings wherein exercise is to be taken 
should be well ventilated. 

After exercise an increased amount of carbonaceous 
food and of water must be supplied to replenish the sys- 
tem for what has been eliminated. The increase of carbon 
food is probably best given in the form of fat rather than 
of the carbohydrates, though there is some difference of 
opinion on this point ; and of all fluids, water is doubt- 
less the best in ordinary cases for training. As a general 
rule, alcohol is harmful, because it benumbs and deadens 
the nerves and will, and because, as every voluntary im- 
pulse must originate in the brain, anything that interferes 
with the communication between it and the muscles must 
lessen the promptness with which they respond and the 
consequent efficacy of their work. The use of a small 




296 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

quantity of malt liquor, however, as a tonic or after the 
exercise is finished may not be harmful, but the decision 
as to its need or use should be left to the physician or 
trainer rather than to the one taking the exercise. 

By exercise the action of the heart is increased in force 
and frequency, the pulse is made full and strong, if the 
work be not too excessive or sudden, and the flow of 
blood and other fluids is increased throughout the whole 
body. As long as the heart is not overtaxed the pulse- 
beats are regular and even, though suddenly increased 
exertion may make the rate very rapid. Ordinarily exer- 
cise increases the rate from ten to thirty beats per minute. 
Excessive exercise leads to palpitation and hypertrophy 
of the heart (one reason why any extensive training 
should be under a competent trainer) ; but, on the other 
hand, deficient exercise leads to a weakening of the heart 
muscle and heart action, and probably to dilatation and 
fatty degeneration. If at the beginning of a new exercise 
the heart action becomes irregular, rest should be taken, 
and the exercise then begun in a more moderate and 
gradual way. The heart stimulus is largely due to the 
increased amount of blood in its cavities, but it should be 
remembered that the venous circulation is chiefly due to 
the muscles. " Every muscle is a little heart," and these, 
by their contraction, constantly tend to drive the blood 
onward to the true heart and lungs. 

Exercise greatly increases the amount of perspiration 
from the skin, this perspiration containing water, salt, 
and considerable waste matter. The evaporation of the 
water tends to keep the body cool, but on account of the 
great heat-production there is not much danger of chilling 
the body during exercise. As soon as work is stopped 
heat-production is checked, the body cools off rapidly, 



EFFECT OF EXERCISE UPON THE BRAIN. 297 

and then there is danger of chilling unless more clothing 
be added. Flannel is best for this purpose because it is a 
non-conductor of heat and hygroscopic and so prevents too 
rapid cooling of the body. Keep the skin clean so that 
the sweat-glands may be unobstructed in the performance 
of their functions. 

Exercise increases the appetite, partly because of the 
increased demand of the muscles for food ; and partly on 
account of the increased circulation of the blood through 
the vessels of the alimentary tract and the liver, this 
causing a more perfect digestion of food. 

If exercise be taken too soon before meals, either the 
stomach, by calling the blood from the exhausted muscles, 
will prevent their proper repair and rest ; or the muscles, 
calling the blood from the stomach, will prevent the 
proper formation of the gastric juice when food is intro- 
duced. If exercise be taken too soon after eating, it is 
apt to prevent the flow of blood to the organs of digestion 
and the formation of the digestive juices ; or, by forcing 
the contents of the stomach into the intestines before 
gastric digestion is completed and before the food has 
reached a condition in which the intestines can make use 
of it, to cause intestinal irritation and indigestion. 

* D 

Proper physical exercise favors a symmetrical brain 
development, for it not only sends more blood containing 
food and oxygen to this organ, but exercise of the func- 
tions of the centres governing the action of the muscles 
must also favor the growth and development of those 
centres. " Hand culture, apart from its value per se, 
is a means toward more perfect brain culture," and exer- 
cise by itself alone is truly educational, although this 
feature of \ v may be more fully developed and empha- 
sized by proper systems and methods. The great trouble 



298 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

is that it is extremely liable to be misapplied, misunder- 
stood, or neglected. 

The aim of training should be to increase the capacity 
of the lungs and the breathing power, to strengthen the 
heart and the circulation, to invigorate the brain and 
nerve-centres, to improve digestion and nutrition, to 
make the muscles more powerful, more responsive to the 
will and their capacity for endurance greater, and to 
lessen the amount of adipose tissue. Systematic exercise 
also helps one to resist disease, because by it waste mat- 
ters are carried off; pores, glands, and organs are kept at 
work and healthy, and active tissues take the place of 
weak and sluggish ones. 

Fatigue is due to lack of contractile material in the 
muscles to continue work, to the exhaustion of nerve-force 
and motor impulses from the brain, and to accumulation 
of waste products, possibly leucomains, in the muscle. . 

Active exercise is that brought about by one's own 
movements ; passive, that produced by something out- 
side or collateral to one's own power. 

It is hard to determine how much exercise any given 
person ought to take, as the personal equation varies so 
much. The average healthy man should probably do 
work equivalent to 150 foot-tons daily. The work of 
walking on a level at the rate of three miles per hour is 
said to be equal to that of raising one-twentieth of the 
body-weight through the distance walked. According to 
this, a man of 150 pounds in walking one mile does work 
equal to 17.67 foot-tons, and his total daily physical labor 
should be equivalent to walking about nine miles at the 
above rate to get the proper amount' of daily exercise. 
This seems like an excessive amount, but if the actual 
physical work of one's customary vocation be taken 



BATHING. 299 

from this, it will probably not leave so very much for the 
daily health-task. The natural disinclination of many 
to exercise grows stronger by indulgence, and while 
urgent reminders are wanting and the evils arising from 
the neglect, abuse, or misuse of exercise are not so very 
immediate or apparent, the latter are still certain to result, 
and are not at all consistent with good and perfect health. 

Bathing. 

In health we make use of baths and bathing for the 
cleansing of the body, the stimulating of the functions of 
the skin, and as a tonic to the whole system. A suitable 
bath properly taken is exhilarating and thoroughly enjoy- 
able. Baths are also to be employed in sickness as a 
means of cure, but such use of them is foreign to the 
present discussion. 

H. C. Wood says : " Cleanliness and the maintenance 
of the proper condition of the skin require the use of the 
bath at least twice a week. In some very delicate persons 
the general bath produces marked depression, but this can 
almost always be avoided by the use of very hot water. 
If the hot or warm bath be employed habitually, it should 
be preferably taken at night, and, unless under very ex- 
ceptional circumstances, the hot bath should always be 
followed by cold sponging or the cold shower-bath, or by 
a plunge into cold water." The temperature of a cold 
bath may be from 40 to 75 F. ; a tepid bath, 75 to 
85 F. ; a warm one, 85 to 100 F. ; a hot one, from 
100 to 110 F. A cold bath is taken not so much for 
its cleansing as for its tonic and stimulating effects ; the 
others are used mainly for their cleansing properties, 
though if followed by the cold sponge, shower, or dip, the 
sense of exhilaration produced will be marked. 



300 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

Cold baths taken immediately after physical exercise 
while the body is still warm, but after perspiration has 
ceased, and followed by a good rubbing and friction of 
the skin, dispel fatigue and give a sense of buoyancy and 
lightness. The shock of the first contact of the water 
with the skin is but momentary, and can be withstood 
by most persons unless there be serious organic disease ; 
and the reaction produced certainly compensates for the 
primary discomfort. If the bath be taken in the open 
air, there is the additional benefit of a plentiful supply 
of fresh air for the lungs, of the physical exercise and the 
increased circulation induced by swimming or combating 
the surf, and, if in the sea, of the stimulation of the skin 
by the salt water. In fact, sea-bathing may be advan- 
tageous to a marked degree where the circulation and 
action of the skin are sluggish. 

Those who are subject to organic heart disease should 
not indulge in sea-bathing nor in deep fresh-water bath- 
ing, since a sudden tax may be made upon the strength 
and the heart action be disturbed or checked. Women 
who are menstruating or who are in the later months of 
pregnancy should not take cold baths. 

Baths should not be taken too soon after meals, because 
digestion may be lessened or entirely stopped by the blood 
being called from the stomach to the skin and muscles, 
and nausea and vomiting thus induced. " There can be 
no doubt that many of the cases that are called 'cramps,' 
and which frequently result in drowning, are due to this 
cause." 1 In cold baths the head should be immersed 
first, " to avoid increasing the blood-pressure in the brain 
too greatly, which might result if the body were gradually 
immersed from the feet upward." ? 

1 Robe's Text-book on Hygiene. * Ibid, 




BATHING. 301 

The following rules, issued by the English Royal 
Humane Society, are worth noting : " Avoid bathing 
within two hours after a meal, or when exhausted by 
fatigue, or when the body is cooling after perspiration. 
Avoid bathing altogether in the open air, if, after having 
been a short time in the water, there is a sense of chilli- 
ness, with numbness of the hands and feet ; but bathe 
when the body is warm, provided no time is lost in get- 
ting into the water. Avoid chilling the body by sitting 
or standing undressed on the banks or in boats after hav- 
ing been in the water. Avoid remaining too long in the 
water, but leave the water immediately if there is the 
slightest feeling of chilliness. The vigorous and strong 
may bathe early in the morning on an empty stomach ; 
the young and those who are weak had better bathe two 
or three hours after breakfast. Those who are subject to 
giddiness or fainting, or who suffer from palpitation or 
other sense of discomfort of the heart, should not bathe 
(out-of-doors) without first consulting their physician." l 

After any kind of a bath the body should be thor- 
oughly dried, not only to restore and accelerate the cir- 
culation of the skin by the friction and to prevent 
cooling by the evaporation of the water, but also to pre- 
vent chafing and eczematous eruptions where the skin is 
subject to the friction of clothing. Warm or hot baths 
should not be taken if the person is to be exposed to the 
cold within several hours, and the same rule applies to 
Turkish, Russian, or vapor baths ; so the former had best 
be taken in the evening, and the latter should not be 
taken away from home, especially in cold weather, unless 
the bather rests for a time after the bath, and then wraps 
up well before going into the open air. 

1 See also Sea Air and Sea Bathing, by John H. Packard. 






302 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

In all warm baths in health the principal object is to 
secure the cleansing effects, and to be effective their use 
must be systematic. The pores of the skin are self- 
cleansing only to a certain degree, and the free use of 
warm water is most beneficial in removing dry epithelium, 
sweat, dirt, and grease. If the pores of the skin are ob- 
structed, there are not only irritation and eruptions of the 
skin produced, but more work is thrown upon the kid- 
neys, and these, if unsound, will break down the quicker. 
Soft water is to be preferred for ordinary bathing and 
washing, because it often prevents or lessens cutaneous 
irritation and because it saves soap. 

Public baths have become a marked feature in the 
scheme of municipal sanitation of a number of cities, and 
are of benefit not only directly, but as a means of incul- 
cating a habit of cleanliness in those who use them. 
Where possible, separate baths should be provided for the 
two sexes, and all should be at all times under competent 
and strict supervision. There is a danger, however, of 
the spread of infection, especially of skin diseases, in the 
use of swimming pools, and shower booths should always 
be provided in preference to individual tubs. 

A Turkish bath consists: 1. Of a dry, hot-air bath 
at a temperature of from 120 to 170 F., or even higher, 
for from ten to thirty minutes, which causes in most per- 
sons profuse perspiration with no sense of discomfort, 
but rather a pleasant sensation. After this come : 2. A 
hot shower-bath to wash off the sweat. 3. Shampooing, 
massage, and scrubbing to remove thoroughly all dirt, 
loose epithelium, and perspiration from the skin. These 
take place in moist air at from 100 to 110 F. 4. A 
warm shower-bath gradually changing to a cold one, and 
then a thorough drying of the body and a rest for a quarter 
or half an hour. A Russian bath differs from this only in 



CLOTHING. 303 

that moist air at 150 F. or under is used instead of dry 
air for the first bath. 

It has been said " that a person ought never to stay in 
either the hot-air or steam-room if in any wise oppressed, 
or to use very cold water afterward if one feels any 
shrinking from it." . Nor should one who is very corpu- 
lent or who has organic heart disease take a Turkish or 
Russian bath without the advice of a physician. But for 
healthy persons they are quite pleasant and in most cases 
beneficial, provided they are not taken too often and that 
one does not indulge in them too long at a time. 

The terms sun-baths, mud-baths, sand-baths, and pine- 
needle baths are self-explanatory. These are used in 
treating certain diseases, and are supposed to be espe- 
cially beneficial in rheumatic affections. 

Clothing. 

There is scarcely anything that can be said on this 
subject with which almost every one of ordinary intelli- 
gence is not in some respects conversant. According to 
Poore, the main objects to be sought in clothing the body 
are : " 1. To maintain the temperature and, by preventing 
the loss of animal heat, to diminish to some extent the 
demands for food. 2. To allow the chief heat-regulating 
mechanism i. e., the evaporation from the skin to pro- 
ceed with as little hindrance as possible. 3. To allow all 
muscular acts the greatest possible freedom, and to avoid 
the compression of the body in so far as may be possible. 

4. To protect the body from heat, cold, wind, and rain. 

5. To disguise as little as may be the natural beauties of 
the human figure." ' 

The substances from which articles of clothing are usu- 
ally manufactured are wool, silk, cotton, linen, leather, 
1 Stevenson and Murphy, Treatise on Hygiene. 



304 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

and furs, although almost everything that can possibly 
be fashioned to suit the needs or fancies of the wearer is 
or has been utilized for the purpose. Goods of all manner 
and kind are woven from the first four substances men- 
tioned, either singly or in combination one with another, 
and felts are made from wool, hair^or fur, these latter 
being made, not by weaving, but by an interlacing and 
matting together of the fibres by pressure and rubbing. 

Wool. In a general sense wool is probably the most 
valuable of clothing materials, since in a variable climate 
or where there are sudden changes of temperature it is 
the safest for the wearer to use. While, taking fibre for 
fibre, it probably does not vary so much from linen or 
cotton as a heat-conductor as is generally believed, it is 
usually woven in such a way as to entangle large quan- 
tities of air in its meshes, thus preventing either sudden 
lowering or raising of the body-temperature, since dry air 
is an especially good non-conductor of heat. Moreover, 
wool is very hygroscopic, readily taking up water and 
perspiration and giving them oif slowly, thus reducing 
the cooling by evaporation to a minimum and regulating 
the heat-dissipation of the body. All who are subject 
to rheumatism or to such disturbances of health as are 
due to sudden temperature-changes should wear woollen 
garments next the skin the year round, varying the thick- 
ness and weight, of course, to suit the season ; and children 
and others subject to digestive disturbances will usually 
be greatly benefited by the constant use of a woollen (or, 
in case that is too heavy, a silken) band about the ab- 
domen. 

As it is ordinarily woven, some persons cannot tolerate 
wool next the skin on account of its irritating properties. 
These latter are obviated, however, if the undergarments 
be made of pure wool woven by methods similar to that 



MATERIALS USED FOR CLOTHING. 305 

introduced by Jaeger, or of a mixture of wool or cotton, 
or by wearing a garment of linen or cotton net next the 
skin and underneath the woollen under-clothing. The 
Jaeger method, by the way, is said to provide for the 
escape of moisture from the material and for the free per- 
meation of air through its interstices. 

Silk is an excellent non-conductor of heat, and is almost 
as hygroscopic as wool, so that it is suitable material from 
which to make warm clothing. Its great natural beauty 
and the facility with which it takes coloring-matter also 
make it desirable from an aesthetic standpoint, while its 
great disadvantage is its high cost. For those who can- 
not wear wool next the skin and to whom cost is no ob- 
jection, silk is an excellent material for undergarments. 

Cotton is probably the most generally used for clothing 
of all the fibres. It is not so hygroscopic by far as wool, 
but it is hard and durable, and is, above all, cheap, so that 
it furnishes the bulk of the clothing for the masses. If 
smoothly woven and of a light color, it makes extremely 
cool garments for warm climates or seasons. On the 
other hand, if warm clothes are desired, the cotton must 
be woven so as to have large air-spaces in the fabric, thus 
making it resemble the ordinary woollen clothing in text- 
ure and partly in function, and should be of a dark color. 
Cotton should not be worn next the skin by those subject 
to sudden temperature-changes, nor during exercise, unless 
in the latter case it is changed immediately after the ex- 
ercise or additional clothing is added to the body to pre- 
vent too rapid evaporation and cooling. 

Linen is valued for its purity of color when bleached, 

and for its durability. It is more expensive than cotton, 

and its hygroscopic and heat-conducting properties are 

about the same as the latter. It is especially desirable 

20 



306 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

for use in clothing for hot climates and for articles of 
dress that are easily soiled and need frequent cleansing. 

Purs provide extreme protection against the wind and 
cold, both on account of the impermeability of the skin 
and of the large quantity of air entangled in the fur itself. 

Leather is utilized for foot-coverings, etc., on account 
of its durability, pliability, and practical impervipusness 
to moisture, especially when oiled ; and in cold countries is 
also used for body garments on account of its resistance 
to the wind and the efficacy with which it keeps the body 
surrounded with a layer of warm air. 

With the possible exception of rubber, which is espe- 
cially useful for the protection which it gives from wind 
and rain, other materials from which clothing is made 
need not be mentioned here, because of the comparative 
rarity of their use and their close resemblance to those 
already named. The value of any material for clothing 
purposes, however, may be said to depend upon the slow- 
ness with which it permits the passage .of heat to or from 
the body and the evaporation of water, the amount of air 
its meshes contain, its impermeability to the wind, or else 
its special adaptability to some particular purpose. 

Certain materials are manufactured from combinations 
or mixtures of two or more of the four fibres first men- 
tioned, and it sometimes becomes necessary to distinguish 
these one from another and to determine the proportion 
of each in the goods. This is done by microscopical ex- 
amination, each fibre having its own peculiar character- 
istics, and by chemical reactions. Some of these latter 
are as follows : Wool and silk dissolve in hot liquor 
potassse or soda? of a specific gravity of 1050, while cotton 
and linen are not affected. Wool and silk are stained 
yellow by strong nitric or picric acid ; cotton and linen 



FASHIONS OF DRESS. 307 

are not. Sulphuric acid affects wool but little, slowly 
dissolves silk, and changes cotton or linen into a gelati- 
nous substance that is colored blue by iodine. Hot 
concentrated zinc chloride dissolves silk, but not wool ; 
and copper dissolved in ammonia rapidly dissolves 
silk and cotton, linen more slowly, but only slightly 
swells wool. 

Cloths are often sophisticated in the process of 
manufacture, and their value greatly lessened thereby. 
Wool is mixed with " shoddy," which is made from 
old and used woollen rags torn asunder and then respun 
with an addition of fresh wool ; silk is heavily weighted 
with salts of tin, iron, or with other substances; and 
cotton and linen are stiffened and glossed with an exces- 
sive amount of starch, white earth or the like. Shoddy 
can be determined by the use of the microscope; the 
weighting of silk by chemical reactions and solutions ; and 
overstarching, etc., of cotton and linen by washing and 
drying. 

It will not be advisable here to go fully into con- 
sideration of the influence which the shape and style of 
the individual garments of ordinary use have upon health, 
for that would require a much longer discussion than the 
present space permits ; but the general rule may be laid 
down that each article of clothing should be adapted 
to the peculiar needs and occupation of the wearer, and 
that it should in nowise interfere with the proper develop- 
ment, use, or physiological functions of any part of the 
body. 

Trite and hackneyed as is the subject, the writer feels 
that he would be wanting in the performance of his duty 
if he failed to condemn the habits and fashions of dress 
that demand undue constriction of the trunk of the 



308 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

body. All sanitarians practically agree upon the impor- 
tance of " vital capacity," as measured by the develop- 
ment and extent of expansion of the thorax, in determining 
the constitution and health of the individual. But not 
only may the corset harm by interfering with the func- 
tions of respiration and circulation, but it may also deform 
and induce even more serious troubles by its displacement 
of the abdominal and especially of the pelvic organs, and 
by the grave interference with the nutrition, tone, and 
functions of all of these. It is a fair challenge to any 
woman who declares that she does not dress too tightly, 
to ask her to measure honestly her waist circumference 
and expansion both with and without the garment in 
question, and to make her decision accordingly. And it 
is certainly false doctrine to teach, as is so often done to 
young girls, that it is really necessary that the normal 
human body should have artificial support. The natural 
muscles kept in proper training, tone, and action are all- 
sufficient to give the most perfect and most beautiful 
human form. 

When exposed to the sun's rays or to other sources of 
radiant and incandescent heat, fabrics absorb heat irre- 
spective of the constituent materials, but in the following 
order as regards color : white, light yellow, dark yellow, 
light green, Turkey red, dark green, light blue, and black, 
the latter color absorbing more than and light blue almost 
twice as much as white, the material in each case being 
the same. In the shade the degree of absorption depends 
more on the material than on the color. 

Lastly, it should be remembered that, as disease germs 
are readily conveyed from place to place and from one 
person to another by the clothing, and especially by that 
which is hygroscopic by nature, care should be taken to 



LIGHT. 309 

keep the garments in as cleanly and aseptic condition as 
possible, to disinfect them whenever they have been ex- 
posed to infection, and, for those who are much among 
the sick or liable to infection, the use of smooth, closely 
woven, non-hygroscopic over or outer garments that can 
be readily cleansed, such as those made of cotton or linen, 
is to be highly recommended. 

Light. 

The important influence of sunlight in the development 
and maintenance of a healthful condition in all higher 
organisms, both animal and vegetable, is well known by 
every one, but as yet there is a lack of information as to 
the exact physiological methods and processes which are 
due to this great force. We know that, for the plants, 
chlorophyll is the intermediary agent which largely assists 
in the conversion of carbon dioxide and the storage of 
carbon in various compounds, and that the presence and 
action of this chlorophyll are largely dependent upon the 
light-supply ; while for the animal kingdom, and espe- 
cially for the human race, it is evident that the effect 
of sunlight is manifested more or less directly in the 
blood and skin, though the whole body quickly shows a 
marked appreciation of its presence or absence. But 
when this has been said, there is little else that can be 
added as a matter of positive information. No one knows 
just how the pallid and anaemic child that has been 
reared in the shade and dark is converted into the tanned 
and ruddy picture of health in so short a time, but the 
results are unquestionable. 

The subject demands further study, and it may not be 
out of place to indicate one or two directions in which the 
investigation may, perchance, be wisely pursued, 



310 PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

In the first place, there has doubtless been too little 
appreciation of the fact that sunlight in its totality has 
many other rays of force than those which manifest them- 
selves alone to our sense of sight. The existence of the 
ultra-violet rays and the fact that these are more power- 
ful actinically than those of the ordinary spectrum have 
been satisfactorily demonstrated, and the only question 
is as to what the true physiologic power and influence of 
these invisible rays may be. It is not certain at present 
that some of them at least are not closely related to the 
manifestation of force discovered by Rbntgen, and there 
is good reason to believe that the penetrative powers 
of light as regards the human body are not fully known 
or appreciated. 1 Nor can we tell how much of that power 
of the sun whose effects we feel and see is in nature on 
that borderland between light and electricity that is as 
yet so vague and unknown. 

Again, the destructive effect of sunlight, and of light 
from minor sources as well, upon the germs of disease and 
other low forms of life, and upon their toxic products, is 
now a matter of common knowledge, though many are 
not aware that it has been proved that this germicidal 
action of light is directly in relation to its actinic power. 
Considering this, together with the statements in the pre- 
ceding paragraph, may we not surmise that hostile organ- 
isms, even in the deeper tissues, are overcome both in this 
way and by the improved condition of the blood due to 

1 Some experiments by the author and hy numerous others seem 
clearly to indicate that some of the radiant energy from the sun, and in 
lesser degree from other sources of light, is able to penetrate substances 
hitherto considered opaque, and to produce phenomena similar to those 
due to the Rontgen ray. Consequently, if the experiments referred to 
are well founded, the penetrative ability of this energy, as regards the 
human tissues, would seem to be more than probable, 



THERAPEUTIC USE OF SUNLIGHT. 311 

the light, and that this hypothesis helps to explain the 
good results that follow the open-air treatment of many 
diseases and abnormal conditions? The tubercle bacilli 
are especially susceptible to its influence, and every one 
should know that an abundance of sunlight is just as 
essential to the tuberculous patient as are plenty of good 
food, pure air, or proper clothing. 

Bie l has described a treatment by means of light, and 
has reported some interesting results and apparent cures, 
in cases of lupus of the skin and circumscribed baldness 
(alopecia areata). He states that the power of the chemic 
rays to kill bacteria, to produce an erythema or inflamma- 
tion of the skin, and to penetrate the skin is already 
proved. But the strongest light of summer, unconcen- 
trated, is too weak to produce marked results quickly in 
disease, and as the chemic and bactericidal power of light 
is mainly in the blue, violet, and ultra-violet rays, meas- 
ures are taken to concentrate and intensify these by means 
of a plano-convex lens filled with a solution of copper- 
ammonium sulphate. This also cools the rays, which 
would otherwise be intolerable, and further cooling is 
secured by a smaller hollow plano-convex lens of quartz, 
through which water is made to flow and which is applied 
to the part of the skin under treatment and on which the 
concentrated rays impinge. That the treatment promises 
much for the future seems undoubted. Finsen has also 
done much to develop the treatment of disease by sunlight, 
and his methods are being employed in this country as 
well as abroad. 

More might also be said in reference to the possible 
and probable chemic activity of the light in and upon the 

1 British Medical Journal, September 30, 1899. Philadelphia Medical 
Journal, October 7, 1899. 



312 



PERSONAL HYGIENE. 



metabolic processes of the animal body ; but as there is 
still the uncertainty of hypothesis and theory, it may be 
wiser simply to leave the foregoing suggestions as food 
for thought and incentives to further research and investi- 
gation. 

The importance of an abundance of daylight in all 
rooms where much work is to be done should not be 



FIG. 55. 




Action of prismatic glass in projecting light. (HARRINGTON.) 

overlooked. Not only is it necessary for the conservation 
of the influences just mentioned, and as a destroyer of path- 
ogenic organisms, but it is also more agreeable and safer 
for the eyesight than any form of artificial light yet de- 
vised. An important aid to the illumination of dark in- 
teriors has been the recent introduction of panes or plates 
of glass with a series of ridges or prisms, which refract 



ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING. 



313 



and diffuse throughout a room light which would otherwise 
illuminate it but partially or not at all. The prisms are 
made with various angles, and may be placed either in 
the ordinary window sash or in projecting canopies, 
according to whether the direct light from the sky is 
obstructed or not. (Figs. 55 and 56.) 

The relation of artificial lighting to ventilation has 
been discussed. In addition to this point, the quantity 
of light supplied and its steadiness have an important 

FIG. 56. 





Diagram of American three-way-prisms for refracting and diffusing day- 
light : A, inner prismatic surface ; D, outer refracting lens surface ; C, profile 
or section of A ; D, profile or section of B. 

bearing on the hygienic value of any artificial source of 
illumination that it may be necessary to employ. 



CHAPTER IX. 

SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

IT was remarked in the chapter on Personal Hygiene 
that the best time for applying the laws of hygiene is in 
the days of childhood and youth, for then the whole or- 
ganism is plastic and yields readily to both external and 
internal impressions and forces. 

This being so, the great influence of the factors common 
to school life may be readily conceived, and inasmuch as 
the average child will be subject to them for a large part 
of from eight to ten or more years, the importance of a 
study of school hygiene will not be denied. It concerns 
the parent, the physician, and the citizen, and its inves- 
tigations must consider the personal hygiene of the scholar, 
the conditions of his health, his habits, the amount of 
work done, the sanitary environment and requirements 
of the school-room and building, the furniture, the venti- 
lation and heating, and the influence of all these upon 
the individual's state and development. 

Next to the scholar himself and his parents, these mat- 
ters are of special interest to the physician, for, beside 
being one who from his special training and education is 
often called to act upon school committees and boards of 
education, he has to treat many disturbances of health in 
the young which have their origin or cause in the harm- 
ful or insanitary conditions of school life. 

There are disorders to which all children are subject 
whether in school or out ; but a special class are markedly 
314 



INFLUENCE OF OVER-WORK UPON HEALTH. 315 

influenced by school life or work, and to these abnormal 
conditions we may give the term " School Pathology." 
Of some of these, overwork is the cause ; others are set 
up by other factors. 

Overwork, coupled with depressed vitality, may give 
rise in children to one or more of the following troubles : 
dyspepsia, headaches, nervous derangements, chorea, epi- 
lepsy, neurasthenia, backaches, menstrual disorders, and, 
in some cases, consumption. On the other hand, faulty 
arrangement of seats and desks, improper location of 
windows, blackboards, etc.) may cause spinal and other 
physical deformities, defective eyesight, etc. Of the first 
class, even where the amount of work may not seem or 
may not really be too much for the capacity of the child, 
worry about rank or over an approaching examination 
may have a harmful effect upon a nervous temperament. 
This is especially so if the examinations come at the end 
of a spring term, when the scholars are all more or less 
worn-out and debilitated. The forcing process should be 
avoided as far as possible, and if grades are to be given 
at all, they should be as much as possible for the work 
and attendance during the term, and not so much for the 
actual work done at examination time. 

Moreover, young children should not be kept in school 
for too many hours in the day, nor should school be 
looked upon by parents as a place to which to send chil- 
dren to keep them out of the way and from mischief. 
Edwin Chadwick has shown that a child from five to 
seven years can only attend to one object for about fifteen 
minutes ; one from seven to ten, for twenty minutes ; 
from ten to twelve, for twenty-five minutes, etc., and that 
the length of individual lessons and likewise the total 
day's work should be arranged accordingly. The very 



316 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

early years of school life should be given to inculcating 
correct habits of attention and of morals and to training 
the will and powers of concentration and observation, 
rather than to the teaching of any special knowledge. 

But it is probably the work attempted outside after 
school hours, and not the actual work done in the school, 
that is most responsible for the breaking down of health, 
especially in older scholars. In Cleveland, in 1881, of 
186 girls in the high school, 29 per cent, of those who 
studied less than two hours, 70 per cent, of those study- 
ing from two to four hours, -93 per cent, of those study- 
ing from four to six hours, and 100 per cent, of those 
studying over six hours daily out of school, had poorer 
health while at school. Of these same girls, the per- 
centages of those whose health was "very poor while 
at school," dividing them the same way as regards over- 
work, were respectively 14, 40, 66, and 100 per cent. 
This loss of health was attributed by the parents to stair- 
climbing, irregularity of meals, worry about rank and 
examinations, etc. ; but Goodell says : " So commonly do 
I find ill health associated with brilliant scholarship, that 
one of the first questions I put to a young lady seeking 
my advice is, ' Did you stand high at school ?' " Another 
writer says : " The effects of anxiety are worse than carry- 
ing heavy loads." 

In fact, one of the leading educators of the country has 
suggested that children should not be required to study 
reading, writing, or drawing before the age of ten or 
eleven, as these bring into action and use the close appli- 
cation of the finer sense organs and faculties which are 
not as yet fully developed; but he advises that the 
instruction of the earlier years of school life should consist 
mainly of language lessons, history, nature studies, and 



ILL HEALTH DUE TO SCHOOL-LIFE. 317 

such others as may be taught orally, and that will at the 
same time develop the child's powers of attention, obser- 
vation, and reasoning. There is more than a chance that 
such a plan of instruction would not only secure better 
results from the teacher's point of view, but that it would 
also be safer for the scholar's physical organism. 

While a child is at school its mind should not be 
wearied by outside tasks, as music or painting lessons, 
nor the body weakened by social dissipations, late hours, 
and indigestible food. Girls are more susceptible to dis- 
turbances, and are more subject to them, because they are 
more willing to undertake extra or double work than boys, 
and because they are more ambitious and worry more 
about rank. In all children the obtaining of good health 
and a sound constitution is of the first importance. Youth 
is the time for gaining health, not for losing it ; for build- 
ing up sound bodies and constitutions, not for breaking 
them down, and school life should always have the former 
as one of its greatest ends. Of what use is all the learn- 
ing one may gain before the age of eighteen, if there be 
no strength to use it afterward in the battle of life ? 

School life is sometimes responsible for dyspepsia by 
interfering with the regularity of meals, the children 
missing the midday meal and having to depend upon a 
meagre lunch, often of sweets and indigestible food. This 
is especially important when the rest of the family dine 
at noon, and there is only a light meal served in the even- 
ing. Again, many habitually lose their breakfast through 
fear of being late, or else bolt the food without masticat- 
ing it and gulp down hot coffee or tea before starting on 
a run for school. But often the loss of appetite is due 
simply to lack of fresh air and proper exercise, or else 
to the nervous condition of the child, which is sometimes 



318 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

such as to interfere with almost all of the body functions. 
Such dyspepsias are to be treated by attention to the 
foregoing points rather than by medicine. 

Headache is a common disturbance among school chil- 
dren, and may be due to any one of several causes, among 
which are overwork producing irritability and disturb- 
ances of cerebral circulation indigestion, bad air, eye- 
strain, etc. The eyes should always be examined when 
headaches are persistent, and any defects corrected by 
proper glasses. Associated with the headaches, frequent 
bleeding from the nose may occur and should not be over- 
looked, as it may indicate circulatory disturbance. 

" Eye-strain is a particular evil of civilization, and 
makes its first appearance in school when the scholar tries 
to accommodate the eye to the short range which reading 
requires, but for which the eye mechanism is not well 
adapted by nature." "In New York City 29.5 per 
cent, of 79,069 children examined suffered from defective 
vision. In London 26 per cent, of 20,000 children ex- 
amined by eight ophthalmologists had defective vision, 
and of this number 12.5 per cent, suffered from vision of 
one-half or less. In Philadelphia 34 per cent, of 1156 
children had defective vision, and of this number 6 per 
cent, had vision of one-half or less. A small proportion 
of this number only is fitted with glasses. The rest suffer 
from real eye-strain." 1 

One of the most common symptoms of nervous derange- 
ment is sleeplessness or restless sleep, and this condition 
should give warning that something is wrong. Folsom 
says : " I doubt whether there is an exaggerated preva- 
lence of manifest or well-marked diseases of the nervous 
system among school children. If due to the school-drill, 
1 Report on National Vitality, Fisher, pp. 8, 74, and 75. 



ILL HEALTH DUE TO SCHOOL-LIFE. 319 

my impression is that they come for the most part later in 
life, after the children have left school, and because of 
constitutions weakened during school years, instead of 
strengthened as they should be." Children subject to 
chorea or epilepsy should not attend school, not only for 
their own sake, but also for that of the other children, who 
may be unduly aifected by their nervous manifestations. 
Such children should be educated quietly and cautiously, 
with proper treatment and plenty of out-door life. Neuras- 
thenia or general break-down may occur, usually from 
overwork, and especially among young women. It may 
come on unexpectedly after the examinations at the end 
of the term, when the strain and excitement are removed. 

Menstrual disorders are also apt to occur among girls 
that are being overworked mentally, and we ought to 
remember that the system is undergoing a heavy strain 
at the time this function is developing. Also, for certain 
young women rest from customary work is necessary at 
the time of the periodical recurrence, and excuses for ab- 
sence at this time ought to be freely granted. It has been 
well said that " girls get through as much work as boys, 
working in their own way." 

The development of consumption may be due to the 
school life, though it is hard to say how frequently this 
is the case. Bad air and overwork are both important 
factors in its production, and if these are forced on under- 
fed or predisposed children the disease may be provoked. 
" In a consumptive family the steadfast rule should be that 
the mind be wholly subservient to the body's welfare." 

The main cause of spinal and other deformities and de- 
fective eyesight is apt to be found in faulty construction 
of seats and desks, improper location of windows, etc., 
though excessive work or strain may maintain a low 



320 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



vitality and act as a predisposing condition. The latter 
point is shown by the fact that spinal curvatures are more 



FIG. 57. 




Position assumed in writing with the desk too high. (PYLE.) 

prevalent in those especially prone to weakness of the 
muscles, as women and girls. But no desk or seat will 
remove original weakness of muscle as the one important 
predisposing condition, and children cannot be made 
strong by supports. " Spinal curvature is not only a 
product of low vitality, but does harm by permanently 
fixing vitality at a low standard." 

Improperly arranged seats and desks not only often 
cause spinal deformities, but also help to develop defective 
eyesight by causing the scholar to hold the book too near 
the eyes and by making him bend his head so that the 
circulation of blood is impeded and ocular congestion 



INFLUENCE OF SCHOOL-FURNITURE. 



321 



favored. However, no seat can be devised in which a 
child will maintain a correct or " normal " position for 
any but a short time, as this is an impossibility for young 
children ; but the aim should be to furnish a seat in 
which one will naturally assume the correct position after 
having temporarily taken any other. " Movement is a 

FIG. 58. 




Position assumed in writing with the desk too low. (PYLE.) 

child's way of resting ; rest is a kind of work, to be taught 
by degrees.". Seats should have backs to prevent fatigue, 
but a comfortable back gives support to the lower part 
of the spine rather than to the shoulders and upper part 
of the spine. Many foreign authorities advise seats with 
backs only high enough to support the lower part of the 
spine, and low enough for the scholar to rest his elbows 
upon them while studying. 
21 



322 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

The following points, suggested by Lincoln, are worth 
noting : " 1. The chair is often too high for young schol- 
ars. The most convenient plan may be to provide foot- 
stools. 2. The seat from back to front ought to be long 
enough to support the whole thigh. A more or less 
spoon-shaped hollow in the seat is commonly thought de- 
sirable. The curve of many settees is such as to produce 
pain at the point where the tuberosities of the ischium rest 
on the wood ; the support is there not wide enough. 
3. Seats must have backs. The straight, upright back 
reaching to the shoulders is bad ; a straight back, slightly 
tilted, is not bad. American seats are commonly curved, 
with curved backs. 4. The edge of the desk should come 
up to or overlap the edge of the seat. The recognition of 
this fact is a recent discovery. 5. Most of our best desks 
are too high relatively to the seat, doubtless to prevent 
the pupil from stooping. Something is gained in con- 
venience of reading by this plan, but it interferes with 
correct positions in writing. The elbows, hanging freely, 
should be only just below the level of the lid." For 
near-sighted children the higher desk may be a necessity 
in writing ; if the desk is made low, a portable writing- 
stand may be placed on top of it when necessary. 

Windows on only one side of a large school-room may 
not give sufficient light for the desks most remote from 
them. Consequently there should be windows on two 
sides, preferably adjoining ones, of large school-rooms. 
The windows should be at the back and to the left of the 
scholar, thus giving the best light upon the desk for 
either reading or writing. They should not be placed in 
front of the scholars, as the continuous glare is very trying 
and injurious to the eyes. They should extend almost to 
the ceiling and have square tops, to admit as much light 



CONSTRUCTION OF SCHOOL-HOUSES. 323 

as possible. Blackboards should have a dead-black sur- 
face, not a glossy one, and should be on the sides of the 
room on which there are no windows. Walls should be 
of a neutral tint, not glaringly white. 

Construction of School-houses. The principles 
already given as to ventilation, heating, water-supply, 
etc., apply here as elsewhere. From 1800 to 2500 cubic 
feet of fresh air should be supplied to each scholar per 
hour. In cold weather this should, of course, be satis- 
factorily warmed. The air-ducts, both inlets and outlets, 
must be sufficiently large to change the air without 
causing injurious and uncomfortable draughts ; and these 
ducts should be as short and free from bends as pos- 
sible, or, better, the rooms should open into the supply 
and exhaust shafts directly. The air may be warmed 
either by steam or hot- water coils or by a furnace, though 
preferably by the former, to avoid " baking " the air, 
and also preferably by the indirect system. There is no 
objection to having additional heating apparatus in the 
school-room, provided it is guarded so that the scholars 
may not be accidentally burned. Any system that will 
give a sufficient supply of fresh air properly heated will 
of necessity be more expensive than the old way of not 
ventilating at all except by opening the windows at recess 
time, but experience shows that the increase in expense 
is not so very great, as so much heat is lost by opening 
the windows in this way, and the benefit to the children 
more than compensates for the additional outlay. 1 Country 

1 " Newton reports a case of an old, unhygienic school building in a 
small town being fitted up with a ventilating system, with the result 
that the cost of the improvement was saved in a short time in salaries 
that otherwise would have been paid to extra teachers for taking the 
place of those made sick by the foul air in the building." Report on 
Human Vitality, Fisher, p. 73. 



324 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



schools may be heated by stoves surrounded by sheet-iron 
drums, and ventilated with fresh air from without brought 
in near the bottom of the stove. (See Fig. 22.) Passing 
up between the stove and drum the air is warmed and 
gives good ventilation without chilling or draught. As 
great a length as possible of stovepipe should be exposed 
in order to get the full benefit of the heat from it. 

The Smead system of ventilation and heating has been 
used with satisfaction in many schools throughout the 



FIG. 59. 




Illustrating the Smead system of ventilation. 

country. In this, the air after being warmed and brought 
into the school-rooms at a level a few feet above the floor, 
circulates through them and is finally withdrawn through 
registers at the floor level, whence it is carried under- 
neath the floors to large outlet shafts in which a draught 
is constantly maintained. In this way thorough diffu- 
sion and changing of the air in the school-rooms are se- 



SCHOOL SANITATION. 325 

cured, and, moreover, the floors are kept warm by the 
heat from the air which is passing beneath them and 
which would otherwise be wasted. (Fig. 59.) 

Ample cloak-rooms should be provided for every school ; 
they should be warm and well ventilated in order to 
secure the rapid drying of the garments in wet weather, 
but they should not communicate directly with the 
school-rooms themselves, if it can be avoided. Provision 
should also be made for readily disinfecting them, and, 
in fact, the whole school building at intervals and when- 
ever necessary. 

In 1897 at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, "the experiment 
was tried of closing each school, where scholars were 
being taken ill, for a few hours only, long enough to 
allow of thorough purification and the sprinkling of the 
floors of class-rooms with disinfectants. This disinfection, 
so far as measles was concerned, was followed by the ex- 
tinction of the disease in question." 1 

The school-house should be on dry and w r ell-drained soil, 
as dampness is not only depressing to all constitutions, 
but is also an important factor in the causation of phthisis 
and strumous diseases. There should not be too much 
shade about, and as many rooms as possible should 
have sunny exposures. If the sunlight is annoying dur- 
ing the session, it may be excluded by inside blinds or 
shutters, but we must not lose sight of its helpful influ- 
ence in the destruction of bacteria and purification of 
organic matters. 

Where sunlight is scanty or it is difficult to illuminate 
the school-rooms, it may be advantageous to furnish one 
or more of the windows with some form of the diffusing 
and refracting prisms already described (page 312), thus 

1 American Year-book of Medicine for 1900, pp. 543, 544. 



326 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

giving an abundance of light where there was formerly a 
deficiency, and materially lessening the eye-strain of the 
scholars. 

Basements of school-houses should be well lighted and 
dry, and should be kept scrupulously clean that moisture 
and noxious gases may not be drawn into the rooms above. 
If properly arranged and cared for, they may be used as 
play-rooms in stormy weather when it would be unwise to 
send the scholars out-of-doors. 

The water-supply should be free from impurities and as 
good as can be had. In the country, if from a neighbor- 
ing farm-house spring or well, it may be contaminated by 
leakage from cesspools and barnyards. Or the school 
water may be taken from a neighboring spring or stream 
which is receiving contamination from the school-house 
cesspool or other sources. For this reason, teachers 
should be taught the tests for chlorides and ammonia and 
the reason for making them, and should make these tests 
frequently. If cause for suspicion arises, the use of the 
water should be stopped at once. 

Water-closets and urinals, where in use, should be kept 
clean by a competent janitor, and the principal or head- 
teacher should see that this is done. In the country, the 
pail or earth-closet system should be substituted for the 
usual privy-vault or cesspool, and it should be the duty 
of some one apart from the teacher, regularly appointed 
and paid by the school directors of the district, to see that 
removals are made at proper intervals ; the teacher should 
maintain supervision over the daily condition of aifairs. 
If possible, the out-houses should be connected with the 
school-house by covered ways, that the children may not 
be exposed in inclement weather ; but these ways should 
be open or else constantly ventilated by open windows on 



SCHOOL PLAYGROUNDS. 327 

either side. Cesspools, if unavoidable, shoufrl be at least 
fifty feet distant, and should drain away from the school- 
house. 

Though approving the Smead system of warming and 
ventilation for school-rooms, the writer cannot say that 
he approves that modification of it wherein the foul air 
from the building is carried over the fecal excreta of the 
inmates before being discharged into the outlet shafts and 
carried to the outer air. Though the method rapidly 
desiccates the excreta and renders it inoffensive to the 
senses, there is danger of the dissemination of disease 
germs as well as a departure from sanitary principles in 
the method. 

Ample provision must be made for the rapid' escape 
and for the safety of scholars and teachers in case of fire 
or panic. Fire-drills should be regularly practised in 
all schools of two stories or more, and presence of mind 
inculcated, that emergencies may be met with safety. 
The comfort of the child should not be forgotten in the 
construction of the school-house, though preservation of 
health is the main aim. 

The importance of ample and properly equipped school 
and other playgrounds for children should also be em- 
phasized. Not only does active natural play do far more 
for the physical welfare of the body and the invigorating 
of the mind than formal gymnastics, even though it be 
admitted that the latter have a place in education, but the 
former also aids in establishing a better social and moral 
status among the children by affording natural outlets for 
exuberant energy, developing self-restraint and considera- 
tion of others, keeping the boys off city streets, and 
preventing thoughtless or malicious mischief. Such play- 
grounds should, wherever possible, have competent super- 



328 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

visors in attendance to advise, encourage, and instruct 
those who make use of them, as well as to prevent disor- 
der or abuse of privileges. 

School Quarantine. As certain diseases are conta- 
gious, it is necessary that school authorities have the right 
to forbid the attendance of such persons as have been ex- 
posed to infection until all danger of transmitting the dis- 
ease to others is passed. This power is usually, however, 
exerted only in the case of those diseases most dangerous 
to life and health, though the stringency of the regulations 
varies at different places. Smallpox, scarlet fever, diph- 
theria, measles, and even whooping-cough should always 
be quarantined, and it would be better to keep children 
who are afflicted with minor diseases of this class out of 
school till all danger of infection is over, as it is only by 
rigid measures like this that we may finally be able to 
eradicate those maladies. Considerable evidence now sup- 
ports the view that there is a marked decrease in the prev- 
alence of both scarlet fever and diphtheria during the 
summer holidays and an increase due to school attendance. 
But Niven, of Manchester, England, thinks that " the 
extreme measure of closing a school for scarlet fever is 
rarely called for, and is not so likely to be effectual as in 
the case of measles." ' 

Local boards of health should make and enforce 
rules looking to the prevention of the spread of the 
graver contagious diseases, and should, when necessary, 
close school-buildings till all danger is past. Lincoln 
gives the following as a system of general regulations: 
" 1. Persons affected with diphtheria, measles, scarlet 
fever, or smallpox (varioloid) must be excluded from the 

1 See Public Health, February, June, and September, 1899; also, 
American Year-book of Medicine for 1900, p. 538. 



SCHOOL QUARANTINE. 329 

schools until official permission is given by the board 
of health for their readmission. 2. Persons living in a 
family or house where such a case occurs are also excluded 
until similar permission is given. 3. This permission is 
not to be given until sufficient time has elapsed since the 
occurrence of the last case to insure safety, nor until the 
premises have been disinfected under the direction of the 
board of health. 4. If a child suffering from one of the 
above diseases attends school, the premises of the school 
must be disinfected under the direction of the board of 
health before they are used again. 5. Physicians, teachers, 
school officers, and school children knowing of such cases 
of disease should at once report them to the board of 
health. 6. The board should also notify the school 
authorities of all such cases. 7. Notice must be sent to 
the family by the school authorities, acting conjointly 
with the board of health." 

In Indianapolis a card catalogue is kept of all the 
pupils in the public schools, each card representing a 
single pupil and giving full information concerning his 
or her home, parents, brothers and sisters, and where the 
same are employed, or are attending school. In case of 
the absence of any pupil for three days or more, the city 
board of health must be notified by the school authorities 
and the scholar is not permitted to return to school until 
the health officers are satisfied that there is no danger of 
infection and have so notified those in charge of the 
school. 

The following table of the periods of incubation of the 
respective diseases is based on an experience of over 
twenty-eight years at the Rugby School, England, by 
Clement Dukes. 1 

11 Lancet, April 29, 1899. 



330 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



AN ANALYSIS OP THE PERIODS OF INCUBATION. 



Name of 
disea.se. 


Short- 
est 
period 
of incu- 
bation 
(days). 


Long- 
est 
period 
of incu- 
bation 
(days). 


The largest 
number 
occur on the 
following 
days. 


The majority of 
the cases arise 
between the 
following days. 


Percentage re- 
ferring to pre- 
vious column, 
e. g., 59 per ct. 
occur between 
the second and 
fourth days. 


Scarlet fever . 


1 


9 


Second and 


Second and 


10 out of 17 = 








fourth 


fourth 


59 per cent. 


Chickenpox . . 


13 


19 


Fifteenth 


Fourteenth and 


24 out of 36 = 










seventeenth 


66 per cent. 


Mumps .... 


14 


25 


Nineteenth 


Seventeenth and 


50 out of 69 = 










twentieth 


72.46 per ct. 


Rose-rash . . . 


12 


22 


Sixteenth 


Fourteenth and 


31 out of 40 = 










seventeenth 


77.50 per ct. 


Measles .... 


8 


14 


Eleventh 


Ninth and 


18 out of 21 = 










twelfth 


75 per cent. 



Another authority gives the following : 

TABLE OF THE ERUPTIVE FEVERS. 



Name. 


Incubation. 


Bay of rash. 


Duration "of 
eruption. 


Duration of 
disease. 


Chickenpox . . . 
Erysipelas .... 
Measles 


4 to 14 days 
1 to 5 days 
10 to 12 days 


Second or third 
First to third 
Fourth 


4 to 8 days 
4 to 8 days 
3 to 5 days 


1 to 2 weeks 
1 to 3 weeks 
10 to 14 days 


Rotheln .... 


7 to 17 days 


First or second 


1 to 3 days 




Scarlatina 1 . . . . 


1 to 21 days 
8 to 14 days 


Second 
Third or fourth 


4 to 10 days 
16 to 25 days 


2 to 3 weeks 
3 to 5 weeks 


Typhoid fever . . 


10 to 21 days 


Seventh to four- 
teenth 




3 to 4 weeks 



Children having had one of the above-named diseases 
may return to school with safety after the following 
periods, provided there has been a thorough disinfection 
of their homes and clothing : " Scarlet fever, six weeks 
from the date of rash, provided desquamation and cough 
have ceased. Smallpox and chickenpox, when every scab 
has fallen. Whooping-cough, after six weeks from com- 

1 In regard to the discrepancy in the above tables respecting the 
incubation of scarlet fever (from one to twenty-one days) the writer 
believes the shorter period to be more nearly correct; also that the 
incubation period of measles is frequently less than ten days, as is occa- 
sionally that of typhoid fever. Relapses may extend the duration of 
typhoid fever to much more than four weeks. 



PERIODS OF INCUBATION. 331 

mencement of whooping, providing the characteristic spas- 
modic cough and whooping have ceased, or earlier if all 
cough have passed away. Diphtheria, not less than three 
weeks, if convalescence is completed ; there being no 
longer any form of sore throat nor any kind of dis- 
charge from the throat, nose, eyes, ears, etc., nor any 
albuminuria." Wherever possible, a bacteriological ex- 
amination of the nose and throat secretions of a scholar 
that has had diphtheria should be made from time to 
time, and his return to school should only be permitted 
when two examinations no longer show the presence 
of the specific organism in the secretions mentioned. 
Rules and regulations like the above, when promulgated, 
" should have the force and authority of law, and should 
be enforced, if necessary, by the entire power, including 
school officers, etc., of the State." 

Boarding-schools and similar institutions should have 
an infirmary where contagious diseases may be isolated, 
and those in charge should make that isolation from other 
scholars and inmates as complete as possible. At the 
beginning of a term it may be well to subject scholars 
who have been exposed to contagion to a postponement 
of attendance until the probable period of incubation for 
the special disease is passed, the period dating from the 
time of exposure and subsequent disinfection of clothing, 
etc. With the above precautions it will rarely be neces- 
sary to close a school unless a disease is markedly epi- 
demic and malignant. 

1 Eecent investigations have shown that the purulent discharge from 
the ear that so often follows attacks of measles and scarlet-fever, and, 
less frequently, of diphtheria, may he highly infectious and a positive 
agent in disseminating the respective maladies. Consequently children 
should be excluded from schools until this sequel of disease as well aa 
others has entirely disappeared. 



332 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

It is to be hoped that we shall soon have a means of 
inoculating persons against all contagious diseases, as we 
now do against smallpox. At present, boards of health 
and school boards should insist on the vaccination of all 
school children. In Illinois, from 1880 to 1883, the 
deaths from smallpox among unvaccinated children were 
48 per cent, of those incurring the disease; among the 
vaccinated, only 0.9 per cent. In Philadelphia all who 
desire it are vaccinated free of charge by the vaccine 
physicians, and it is compulsory for all school children. 

Lincoln has also suggested that further regulations 
similar to the following should be in force in every school 
district : " Every child entering the public schools must 
show a certificate from some reputable physician, giving 
name, age, residence, approximate date of vaccination, 
date of examination, result of examination, the last two 
to be of the physician's own knowledge. The fact of 
vaccination must be entered on the school record and on 
lists for promotion and transfer. The school authorities 
shall annually report the number of those not protected 
to the State Superintendent of Education. School author- 
ities may order the exclusion of non-protected persons, 
after sufficient notice, where they think the measure re- 
quired for the public health. Re-vaccination at the age 
of fifteen may be required under similar circumstances. 
Those unable to pay should be furnished with free vac- 
cination by the school authorities. A physician's cer- 
tificate of protection by a previous attack of smallpox is 
equivalent to a certificate of vaccination." 

Contagious ophthalmia is a disease often prevalent in 
charitable and educational institutions and occasionally 
in primary schools, and requires g'reat care to prevent its 
invasion and spreading, as well as to effect a cure. Those 



MEDICAL INSPECTION. 333 

afflicted with it should be quarantined until there is no 
further discharge or till the granulations on the inner 
surface of the eyelids have disappeared. Enfeebled health 
and poor and insufficient food favor its development, but 
the chief means of contagion is by the use of the same 
wash-basins and towels by a number of children. 

Other diseases that may be transmitted in much the 
same way are chronic conjunctivitis ("granular lids") 
and those due to fungous and other parasites, as the tineas 
(" ringworm of the scalp or face "), pediculosis, etc., all 
of which may be transmitted by an interchange of hats or 
caps or other garments. 

School children should not be allowed to attend the 
funerals of companions dead of a contagious disease, nor 
should funerals be allowed to take place from school- 
houses under any circumstance, owing to the effect on 
the thoughts and sensibilities of nervous children. 

" Medical inspection in our schools returns large divi- 
dends on small investments. Jensen has shown that the 
cost of a school dental clinic in Germany is only one 
mark per year per child. The cost saved must be very 
many times this sum." " Cronin, of New York, main- 
tains that in a school population of 650,000, 30 per cent, 
of the children were from one to two years behind their 
proper class. Ninety-five per cent, of these children 
were so principally because of defects of eye, ear, nose, 
or throat, which could easily be detected and remedied 
through effective medical inspection. Experiments at 
home and abroad have proved beyond any doubt that the 
majority of children of this sort, when given proper medi- 
cal treatment, improve markedly in intellect and general 
conduct. The State 'attempts to educate these children, 
but its efforts are, to a large extent, wasted. Osier calcu- 



334 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

lated that in the special city to which reference has been 
made there was, on account of a lack of medical su- 
pervision of educational work, a yearly financial loss of 
$1,666,666; of course, the loss which came from moral 
deviation due to defective physical functioning was of far 
greater importance. He also said recently, in effect, that 
he considered it of greater importance to the nation that 
the question of sound teeth be intelligently considered 
than that the consumption of alcohol be restricted, im- 
portant as the latter problem is." 1 

1 Report on National Vitality, Fisher, pp. 123 and 173. 



CHAPTER X. 

DISINFECTION. 

As has been stated, disinfection is that part of pro- 
phylaxis which has to do with the destruction or modifi- 
cation of the exciting causes of disease, and we may 
accordingly define a disinfectant as " an agent capable of 
destroying the infective power of infectious material," or, 
as " an agent which brings about the destruction of bac- 
teria in general, and more particularly of those that act 
as the exciting causes of disease." l Consequently, as with 
our present knowledge we are practically limited in the 
use of disinfection to the infectious diseases only, a disin- 
fectant must also be a germicide. Theoretically, it should 
also have the power of destroying the poisonous proper- 
ties of the toxins which the disease germs produce, and 
which create the characteristic symptoms of the specific 
diseases ; but whether all efficient disinfectants have this 
power is by no means proved ; nor is it altogether essen- 
tial that they do have it, since by killing the germs we 
check the further production of the toxins ; and disinfec- 
tants are mainly used not so much to cure or arrest the 
progress of a disease in a patient as to prevent its incur- 
rence by others. But, in a popular sense, the term dis- 
infection is given a wider meaning than is indicated 
above, including not only the use of antiseptics and 
deodorants, but also often the actual removal of filth 
and all matters favorable to the growth or spread of 

1 Harrington, Practical Hygiene, p. 488. 

335 



336 DISINFECTION. 

disease germs, which is, strictly speaking, a matter of 
sanitation. It is needless to say that the latter work may 
be part of the prescribed duties of a disinfector, but it is 
not one of the essential functions of a disinfectant. 

It will be well here to make the distinction between 
disinfectants and antiseptics and deodorants, as the terms 
are often wrongly used interchangeably, and there is a 
common belief that whatever is a deodorant or an anti- 
septic is also a disinfectant. An antiseptic is an agent 
that retards or arrests bacterial growth and the conse- 
quent production of toxins or ptomains, though it does 
not necessarily kill the micro-organisms themselves ; and 
though some antiseptics are germicidal, others are not, 
and therefore as a class they cannot be considered or 
used as disinfectants. But, on the other hand, "agents 
which kill bacteria in a certain amount prevent the mul- 
tiplication of the latter in culture-fluids when present in 
quantities considerably less than are required to destroy 
vitality." So, a diluted germicide may act as an anti- 
septic and may be used therefor. For instance, chlorin- 
ated lime, which is a good disinfectant in solutions of 
proper strength, may arrest further bacterial growth or 
action in a mass of sewage or filth and prevent the latter 
acting as a culture-medium for disease germs, even 
though the agent be totally inadequate in quantity to kill 
all the micro-organisms present. In the same way, it 
may act as a deodorant which, by the way, is an agent 
that simply removes or destroys offensive odors, and is 
not necessarily either a disinfectant or an antiseptic both 
by checking the further action of saprophytic bacteria 
and the consequent formation of putrefactive odors, and 
by actually decomposing and oxidizing those of the latter 
already formed. 



THOROUGHNESS IN DISINFECTION ESSENTIAL. 337 

In practical disinfection it is also well to remember 
that while masses of dead organic matter may not in some 
cases contain disease germs, and may be even hostile to 
them, in general the reverse of this is more likely to be 
true, and decaying matter 'often furnishes a good field for 
the increase of pathogenic organisms. Moreover, the 
noxious gases given off to the air and the poisonous 
products added to a drinking-water from such masses 
may also do much harm by depressing the system, lower- 
ing the vitality, and acting as predisposing conditions to 
the incurrence of such filth diseases as cholera, yellow 
fever, typhoid and typhus fever, diphtheria, etc. ; and 
when time or opportunity does not permit of the removal 
of such dangerous accumulations, their power for harm 
should be checked permanently or, at least, temporarily 
by the use of suitable disinfectants or antiseptics. 

But when we are actually dealing with disease germs, 
disinfection, to be trustworthy, must be carried out to 
the best of our ability with the means at our command 
and with strict attention to the minutest details. " There 
can be no partial disinfection of infectious material ; 
either its infectious power is destroyed or it is not. In 
the latter case there is a failure to disinfect." This is 
because the undestroyed living bacteria still have the 
power of reproduction, and may, within a very short time 
under favorable circumstances, equal or even exceed the 
number that was present before the unsuccessful attempt 
at disinfection was made. In fact, our aim in such pro- 
phylaxis must always be " to interrupt all possible paths 
of disease conveyance, and to exterminate the causal 
agent." 

The knowledge as to the efficacy of any substance as a 
disinfectant is obtained from the accumulated experiences 

22 



338 DISINFECTION. 

of practical sanitarians and from experiments on suscep- 
tible animals and in culture-media in which infectious 
matter is treated with the substance in question or that is 
being tested. The knowledge gained must stand the test 
of scientific deduction, and a substance is not a disinfect- 
ant simply because, in one given case, infection did not 
occur after its use. To be of value the deductions must 
be made from considerable accumulated and practical 
experience. " Negative evidence should be received with 
great caution ;" but if the experience of practical sanita- 
rians is confirmed by careful culture and inoculation 
experiments, our knowledge of the value of any agent 
becomes more definite and our practical work more exact. 
From such inoculations and experiments it has been 
found that the infectious germs of different diseases differ 
in their power to resist the different disinfectants ; but 
nevertheless it may be stated that " in the absence of 
spores, a disinfectant for one is a disinfectant for all." 
Consequently, we are able to simplify and classify the 
agents at our disposal and to make more effectual use of 
them. Note that there is nothing in the tests mentioned 
that tends to disprove the efficacy of disinfectants, what- 
ever the nature of the infecting material and whether the 
germ theory be accepted or not. 

Some agents that are powerful against all other organ- 
isms completely fail to destroy the vitality of spores, 
and thus our list of disinfectants available in oil cases is 
still further reduced. In the case of a disease germ that 
does not produce spores, as that of diphtheria or typhoid 
fever, agents may be used that are powerless against 
spores, but in doubtful cases only those should be used 
that have the power of spore destruction. 



CLASSIFICATION OF DISINFECTANTS, 339 

We may classify the disinfectants of which we may 
make practical use as either thermal or chemical, though 
there are undoubtedly certain secretions and tissues in the 
body which have the power of destroying infective mat- 
ters, giving each person more or less immunity against 
certain diseases, and these we may term physiological 
disinfectants. 

There may also be a mechanical sterilization, as in the 
separation of micro-organisms from a liquid by filtration 
or sedimentation, or by their physical removal from very 
smooth articles by wiping, or from the human skin by 
thorough scrubbing and washing. Whether the latter 
may prove efficient depends on the smoothness of the 
person's skin, his exposure to pathogenic germs, and espe- 
cially upon the care and thoroughness with which the 
cleansing process is accomplished. 

Thermal Disinfectants. Of the thermal disinfectants, 
fire is the most efficacious, as it destroys all organic mat- 
ter, but it can only be used to disinfect non-combustible 
articles or those that are of little value and that cannot be 
safely disinfected in any other way. For instance, as it 
will usually cost more than they are worth to disinfect 
thoroughly by other methods old mattresses that have 
been used in infectious cases, it is best to burn them. 

All things considered, steam is probably the most prac- 
tically efficient disinfectant, as it is cheap, easily used and 
manipulated, and is less liable to injure the articles to be 
disinfected. We employ it under pressure, when its tem- 
perature is correspondingly increased, or in the streaming 
state (live steam), the latter being as efficient as the 
former, but sometimes requiring a little longer time. For 
instance, steam at 240 F. is said to kill the most resistant 
spores very quickly, and streaming steam at 212 F. will 



340 



DISINFECTION. 



produce the same effect within thirty or forty hlinuteS. 
In fact, under very favorable conditions, probably few, if 
any, of the ordinary pathogens can withstand the tem- 
perature of boiling water (212 F.) longer than a few 
minutes, but it is always wise to employ sufficient time 
and heat to remove any possibility of doubt or danger; 
One should also remember that for surface disinfection 
streaming saturated steam is relatively much more efficient 

FIG. 60. 




Steam sterilizer for small articles. 



than superheated steam, on account of the great liberation 
of latent heat when the former condenses, and possibly 
because the latter tends to dry rather than moisten the 
organisms and thus render them harder to disinfect. Spe- 
cial apparatus for disinfecting large articles by steam is 
now or doubtless soon will be established in every large 
city and hospital by the municipal authorities and others, 
as a sanitary precaution and to prevent the spread of 
epidemics. 



STEAM DISINFECTION. 



341 



In steam sterilization, as with all other disinfectants, 
the aim must be to bring the germicidal agent into contact 
with every part of the infected matter ; in other words, 
to secure thorough penetration. The size and compact- 
ness of the articles to be sterilized accordingly govern in 
part the duration of their treatment by the steam. Steam 
under pressure is, of course, more penetrating than live 
steam, and is especially expeditious when the apparatus 

FIG. 61. 




Steam disinfecting chamber for clothing, bedding, and other large articles. 

is so arranged that the air can be exhausted from it and 
a vacuum created in the interstices of the articles to be 
disinfected before the steam is introduced. 

In the large sterilizers constructed for hospital or mu- 
nicipal use every precaution is taken to prevent the rein- 
fection of articles after they have been once sterilized. The 
goods enter the apparatus at one end, and after the treat- 
ment are taken from it at the other end, being handled 



342 DISINFECTION. 

and delivered to their owners or destination by an entirely 
different group of employes and conveyances than those 
concerned with them before the disinfection. The appa- 
ratus is built into a closed partition, which entirely sepa- 
rates the two parts of the disinfecting building and pre- 
vents any transmission of germs from the infected to the 
disinfected side, especially as the doors of the sterilizer 
are, or should be, so arranged that they cannot both be 
open at the same time. 

BOILING-POINT OF WATER UNDER STEAM-PRESSURED 

Steam-pressure Boiling temperature, 

(pounds). (F.) (C.) 

212 100.0 

5 228 109.0 

10 240 115.5 

15 251 121.5 

20 260 126.5 

40 287 141.5 

In the absence of spores, bacteria are killed by hot 
water even below the boiling-point, and it is safe to say 
that boiling for ten or fifteen minutes will kill all known 
disease germs, especially if from 1 to 2 per cent, of wash- 
ing soda or a little common salt (sodium chloride) be 
added to the water ; although spores of certain harmless 
bacilli are said to have resisted boiling for several hours. 
The addition of soda also prevents the rusting of iron or 
steel instruments, but is likely to cause erosion of alumi- 
num articles. In the absence of chemical disinfectants, 
boiling water may be used to disinfect excreta, etc. ; and 
all clothing worn by the sick or the attendants upon the 
sick should be well boiled before using again, whether 
other disinfectants are employed or not. 

1 McFarland and Babcock, in Cohen's System of Physiologic Thera- 
peutics, vol. v., p. 201. 



DISINFECTION BY DRY HEAT. 343 

Dry heat is far less penetrating and less effective than 
moist, and must accordingly be used at much higher 
temperatures and for a longer time. At 300 F. dry air 
will require at least three or four times as long to do what 
steam at 212 or 220 F. will do, and, moreover, it is 
very apt to injure clothing or other organic materials ex- 
posed to it at such high temperatures for so long a time 
as is necessary. Consequently, it is only to be used to 
disinfect articles that would be spoiled by moisture or 
chemicals, and even then it is better to employ the " frac- 
tional" method of disinfection i. e., exposure to high 
temperatures for short periods only, but for a number of 
times, with sufficient intervals between the exposures to 
allow the development of any spores that may possibly be 
present. 

Contrary to the popular opinion, cold is not a positive 
germicide, or at best is but a slowly acting one. Typhoid 
germs have been frozen for more than one hundred days 
without losing their power for harm, and various micro- 
organisms have withstood the temperature of liquid air 
below 300 F. for several hours or days. However, 
freezing, especially if intermittent, is harmful to the growth 
of bacteria, and they gradually decrease in number in frozen 
material. 

In this connection it is not out of place to refer again 
to the germicidal power of light, especially sunlight, and 
to its value as an adjunct in the disinfecting of rooms, 
clothing, etc. It is an agent that may be used progressively 
and efficiently in the sick-room throughout the course of 
an infectious disease ; and psychically, as well as other- 
wise, adds to the cheer and comfort of the patient rather 
than to increase his discomfort, as does the use of most 
other means to the same end. 



344 DISINFECTION. 

Chemical Disinfectants. Regarding the chemical 
disinfectants, it must be remembered that it requires "a 
certain amount of each to disinfect a given quantity of 
bacteria, and also that, with all disinfectants, time is an 
important element, as none act absolutely instantaneously. 
Heat, however, facilitates and increases the rapidity of 
action of the chemical disinfectants. 

Another caution to be observed is that the disinfectant 
should always be of sufficient strength in the mixture with 
infected material. For example, if a disinfectant is only 
effective in 1 per cent, strength or more, then at least a 
2 per cent, solution should be added, volume for volume, 
to the matters to be disinfected, and should be thoroughly 
mixed with the latter in order that the germicide may be 
brought into contact with all the infective organisms. 

Chlorinated lime (often called chloride of lime) is one 
of the best and cheapest disinfectants. It should contain 
at least 35 per cent, of available chlorine, should be kept 
covered from air and moisture, and fresh solutions should 
always be made as needed. Its power is due to hypo- 
chlorite of lime, which is freely soluble in water and 
readily decomposes in contact with organic matter, giving 
up chlorine gas a most powerful disinfectant. " Germs 
of all kinds, including the most resistant spores, are 
destroyed by this solution ; but it must be remembered 
that the disinfectant itself is quickly decomposed and 
destroyed by contact with organic matter, and that if this 
is present in excess, disinfection may not be accomplished, 
especially when the germs are embedded in masses of 
material which are left unacted upon after the hypochlo- 
rite of lime has been all exhausted in the solution." La- 
barraque's solution of chlorinated soda is a very mild 
disinfectant, but does not keep well, and chlorinated lime 



CHEMICAL DISINFECTANTS. 345 

is equally as good and much cheaper. However, the soda 
solution has scarcely any disagreeable odor, and makes a 
pleasant disinfecting bath for the person. The official 
solution must contain at least 3 per cent, of available chlo- 
rine, but it may be diluted with from two to five parts of 
water before use, especially for bathing. 

Though probably effective against sporeless bacteria in 
somewhat less proportions, solutions of chlorinated lime 
should be of at least 1 per cent, strength by weight, and 
should be used in excess, to allow for both the dilution by 
the mass to be disinfected and the exhaustion of the hypo- 
chlorite by organic matter. 

Bichloride of mercury is one of the best germicides that 
we have, and is effective in comparatively weak solutions. 
It corrodes metal, and so cannot be used to disinfect waste- 
pipes, etc. ; and it combines with and coagulates albumin, 
which interferes somewhat with its action. This coagu- 
lation is prevented to a degree by the addition of a 
small amount of citric or tartaric acid or of ammonium 
chloride to the disinfecting liquid. The same result is 
said to be obtained if one part of hydrogen peroxide 
(15 per cent, solution) be added to three parts of a cor- 
rosive sublimate solution of any strength, or by adding 
common salt (0.5 to 1 per cent.) to the solution. But for 
the above reason it is better not to use corrosive sublimate 
in disinfecting fecal excreta or sputum, as these always 
contain more or less albumin, and also because the sulphur 
present in the excreta permits the formation of a sulphide 
of mercury, which has almost no power as a disinfectant. 
A lime solution is better and more certain. 

Bichloride of mercury should be used in solutions of 
from 1 in 1000 to 1 in 500 strength for ordinary disin- 
fection, though weaker preparations are sometimes usecj 



346 DISINFECTION. 

in surgical cases. It is especially valuable where a large 
amount of fluid is to be freely used, but stock solutions 
should always be colored by a little aniline dye or copper 
sulphate, on account of its poisonous properties, and the 
consequent danger of accident from a lack of color. Ab- 
bott cautions that the stains of blood and feces on cloth- 
ing are rendered almost indelible by long soaking in bi- 
chloride solutions. Silver nitrate is almost, if not fully, 
as good a disinfectant as bichloride of mercury, and does 
not coagulate albumin so readily, but is much more 
expensive. 

Carbolic acid is effective in the absence of spores, and, 
according to Koch, should have first place in disinfection 
against the cholera germ. It is of doubtful value, how- 
ever, in cases of typhoid fever, as it is said that the 
typhoid bacilli can be cultivated in a medium containing 
0.5 per cent, of carbolic acid. Solutions should always be 
made by first dissolving the acid in hot water, and should 
contain from 2 to 5 per cent, of acid, the latter being 
practically a saturated solution. The stronger solution is 
especially valuable for the direct disinfection of human 
excreta of all kinds, but must be thoroughly mixed with 
the same, as carbolic acid coagulates albumin somewhat, 
while the weaker fluid (2 or 3 per cent.) may be used 
freely for the disinfection of clothing or the washing of 
walls, floors, furniture, etc. 

A 2 or 3 per cent, solution of a mixture of equal parts 
of carbolic and sulphuric acids is valuable for the disin- 
fection of water-closets, urinals, etc., as the latter acid 
increases the effectiveness of the mixture ; but it must not 
be kept too long in contact with metals on account of the 
corrosive action of the sulphuric acid. 

Solutions of the kresols (meta-, para-, and ortho-), which 
are derived from coal- or wood-tar, and much resemble 



CHEMICAL DISINFECTANTS. 347 

carbolic acid, may be used for the same purposes and in 
about the same strength as solutions of the latter. In fact, 
trikresol, which is a refined combination of the three, is two 
or three times as powerful a disinfectant as carbolic acid, 
and, in solutions of from 0.5 to 1 per cent, strength, makes 
an agreeable and efficient disinfectant for use in surgery 
and obstetrics, especially as it does not coagulate albumin 
as readily as do carbolic acid and corrosive sublimate. As 
carbolic acid and kresol solutions are all poisonous, they 
should always be so labelled, although the characteristic 
odor serves as a partial safeguard to those accustomed 
to it. 

The kresols do not corrode metals and can be used with 
soaps and oils, both of which features increase their use- 
fulness for surgical and other purposes. 

Creolin is another coal-tar product that has some ger- 
micidal power, but is not so efficient as was formerly 
credited. Being cheap, it may be used freely for disinfect- 
ing drains, stables, urinals, and such places where its 
rather strong odor is not objectionable. It should be 
made up in from 2 to 5 per cent, strength in water, and, 
being insoluble, the mixture must be thoroughly stirred or 
shaken each time before use. 

Zinc chloride is a good antiseptic and deodorant, but 
not a very powerful disinfectant. A 5 or 10 per cent, 
solution will kill germs without spores. 

Calcium hydrate, when mixed with water to make a 
thin whitewash (milk of lime), is said to be a good disin- 
fectant, especially for excreta, etc., and is one of the 
cheapest and easiest to obtain. It should be added to the 
infectious matter in excess or until the mixture is de- 
cidedly alkaline, and will require from one to two hours 
to disinfect thoroughly. 



348 DISINFECTION, 

The proportion of lime to water should be about as 1 to 
4, equal parts being first taken to allow the slaking of the 
lime, and the rest of the water then added and the mass 
thoroughly mixed by stirring. Two quarts of this mixt- 
ure per day for each person using a cesspool will keep the 
contents of the latter disinfected and free from putre- 
factive odors, provided its use commences with the use of 
the cesspool, or that the prior contents have been dis- 
infected by an excess of this or a chlorinated lime solu- 
tion, or by an abundance of the latter salt or quicklime in 
powder. 

Sulphate of iron, which acts as an antiseptic to prevent 
putrefaction, rather than as a disinfectant, may also be 
added to the contents of an offensive cesspool or one that 
has received infected matter to the extent of about four 
pounds for each cubic yard of the mass. The sulphate 
should, of course, be thoroughly dissolved before using. 

An extremely valuable disinfectant for local or topical 
applications to the person is hydrogen peroxide or dioxide 
(H 2 O 2 ). It is harmless, even when taken internally ; is 
effective in comparatively weak solutions, and is especially 
active in the destruction of pus organisms. It is usually 
supplied in the form of a 15 per cent, solution in water 
and at present only its high cost prevents its more ex- 
tended use. 

Until the discovery, in 1892, of the great disinfecting 
power of formaldehyde or formic aldehyde by Trillat and 
Aronson, about the only gaseous disinfectants of practical 
value were chlorine and sulphur dioxide. 

Of these, chlorine is the most powerful and efficient, 
but the distressing and oftentimes serious symptoms which 
it produces when accidentally inhaled, and the bleaching 
effect that it has upon many articles, have both tended to 



GASEOUS DISINFECTANTS, 349 

prevent its common employment. Like the sulphur 
dioxide, it acts best in the presence of moisture, and 
therefore steam should be simultaneously introduced and 
liberated in the room or enclosure in which either of these 
disinfectants is used. Sufficient chlorine for 1000 cubic 
feet of space may be generated by carefully pouring two 
fluidounces of strong sulphuric acid and three fluidounces 
of water, previously mixed and cooled, upon eight ounces 
of sodium chloride (common salt) and two ounces of man- 
ganese dioxide. The acid must be added to the water 
little by little and with care, and the salt and manganese 
should be in an earthen vessel upon a bed of sand, to 
prevent injury to the floor or carpet. Moreover, as the 
chlorine gas is very heavy, the generating apparatus 
should be at as high a level as possible in the room to get 
even fair diffusion. 

Sulphur dioxide (SO 2 ), though not so positive in its 
action as chlorine, is more frequently employed on account 
of the lesser risk and trouble connected with it. It prob- 
ably kills germs not containing spores if sufficiently con- 
centrated and in the presence of moisture, and is therefore 
useful in the fumigation of rooms and of articles that can- 
not be subjected to steam heat or chemical solutions. But 
it will bleach or tarnish many articles, and for this reason 
and the fact that it is thought by some to be inferior to for- 
maldehyde, its use has been in a measure supplanted by 
that of the latter whenever that could be obtained. 

To secure sufficient concentration at least three pounds 
of sulphur should be burned for every 1000 cubic feet of 
air-space. 

The sulphur should be well moistened with alcohol, 
unless the prepared sulphur candles now on the market 
are used, and allowance should be made for a considerable 



350 DISINFECTION. 

proportion that is usually not burned. Care must also be 
had to guard against setting fire to the room from the 
sputtering of the sulphur, and especially to have present 
in the atmosphere an abundance of aqueous vapor. 

Before the fumigation of a room with chlorine or sul- 
phur dioxide, or with formaldehyde, all apertures and 
crevices in the walls, ceiling, or floor should be carefully 
closed from the outside to maintain the gases in as con- 
centrated a state as possible during the process, which 
should continue for at least twenty-four hours in the case 
of chlorine or sulphur gas, and for not less than twelve 
hours with formaldehyde. After the fumigation the room 
should be thrown open and well ventilated, and then 
thoroughly cleansed with a corrosive sublimate, carbolic 
acid, or hot soda solution, a 4 per cent, solution of the 
latter being not only cleansing, but strongly disinfectant 
as well. 

Sulphur gas excels formaldehyde in the destruction of 
such vermin as roaches, bedbugs, fleas, flies, and mos- 
quitoes, and may be preferred to the latter or used as an 
adjunct to it where there is danger of infection being 
transmitted by these agents. Likewise, it may be used to 
destroy larger animals, such as rats and mice, that we now 
know may be carriers of various disease germs. (See pp. 
363 and 378.) 

Hydrocyanic acid, which may be freely liberated as a 
gas by the addition of dilute sulphuric acid to cyanide of 
potassium, has been used both as a germicide and an in- 
secticide. Its high relative cost does not warrant its use 
as a substitute for sulphur gas or formaldehyde, but the 
certainty with which it kills all kinds of small vermin, 
and even higher animals, such as rats and mice, that may 
carry infective organisms, renders it of high value for 



FORMALDEHYDE AS A DISINFECTANT. 351 

this purpose. Its poisonous nature, however, should 
always be remembered, and great care always observed in 
its use. 

Formaldehyde (formic aldehyde), both in its gaseous 
state and in solution, is undoubtedly one of the best and 
most efficient disinfectants now in use. It has consider- 
able penetrating power, although less than steam or than 
was claimed for it at first by its more enthusiastic advo- 
cates, while for surface disinfection it acts almost imme- 
diately. It is, therefore, much better in this respect 
than chlorine or sulphur dioxide, already mentioned, and 
where it is properly used, only such articles as bedding, 
mattresses and pillows, that can be better treated with 
.steam, need be removed from an infected apartment. 
'Clothing, rugs, hangings, etc., that can be freely exposed 
to it are quickly sterilized. Another important feature is 
that it does not bleach nor act destructively on either cloth- 
ing or furniture, and that, although it is quite irritating to 
the conjunctive of the eyes and to other mucous mem- 
branes when concentrated, it is virtually non-poisonous. 

Formaldehyde is readily absorbed and held in solution 
by water to the extent of 40 per cent, by weight of the 
latter, but as soon as this proportion is exceeded there is 
a polymerization of the gas and a solid (paraformalde- 
hyde or paraform) is precipitated, which is only resolved 
again into formaldehyde at a temperature of 275 F. 
The 40 per cent, solution is practically identical with the 
preparation which is commercially known as formalin, 
which has usually an addition of 10 per cent, of methyl 
alcohol to guard further against precipitation. Very 
weak solutions (1 or 2 per cent.) of the gas are still effec- 
tively disinfectant, while its virtue as an antiseptic persists 
even when the dilution is carried to a remarkable degree. 



352 



DISINFECTION. 



One peculiar effect of the solutions is that of rendering 
connective tissue and all gelatinous substances insoluble 
in either hot or cold water, and it is probably to this that 
its germicidal activity is largely due, since the food-supply 
of the bacteria, if not the substance of the latter them- 
selves, is partly of this nature. For the same reason it 
hardens and disagreeably roughens the skin, which tend 
to prevent its use for topical applications to the human 
body. 

Several methods have been devised for the production 
or liberation of formaldehyde in rooms and buildings 
in such volume as positively to secure both surface and 



FIG. 62. 



FIG. 63. 





Schering's lamps for volatilizing paraform. 

penetrative disinfection. One of the first devised and 
best methods involves the heating and vaporizing of a 
solution of the gas, such as formalin or formochloral, the 
latter a mixture of the former with calcium chloride. 
For instance, in Trillat's apparatus the latter solution is 
used, the calcium chloride being added to insure further 
against the precipitation of paraform. A simpler device, 
called a regenerator, allows the formalin to flow in a fine 



FORMALDEHYDE GAS GENERATORS. 353 

stream through a copper coil heated to redness by a flame 
beneath, the gas and vapor then passing directly into the 
room in a superheated and effective condition ; and in other 
apparatus, like the Novy-Waite and Trenner-Lee genera- 
tors, there is special provision for the rapid evolution of 
the gas at high temperature, and to prevent its poly- 
merization. Both of these methods have the advantage 
that the apparatus may be operated outside of the room 
to be disinfected, and the action accordingly controlled ; 
also that the amount of gas liberated depends directly 
upon the strength and quantity of the solution evaporated. 

In the Schering method the solid paraform is heated 
in a receptacle over an alcohol lamp, the volume of 
resulting formaldehyde depending, of course, upon the 
amount of paraform used. This method has yielded some 
excellent results experimentally, and is of special value 
in disinfecting small rooms, closets, and sterilizing cases 
for instruments, dressings, etc. 

The gas may also be liberated in a room by spraying 
formalin from a properly constructed compressed air or 
steam atomizer, or by evaporating it from saturated sheets 
hung about the room, but as this is not certain to liberate all 
the gas from the solution, more of the latter must be used. 

Formerly a very common form of apparatus was that 
devised, in the form of a portable lamp, to develop the 
gas directly by the oxidation of methyl alcohol, the 
vapors of the latter being made to pass over or through 
tubes or coils of heated platinum, and to be thus converted 
into the disinfectant gas. Considerable formaldehyde can 
doubtless be produced in this way, but with most apparatus 
of this kind the amount at any time is uncertain and the 
results indefinite, since part of the alcohol vapors are 
polymerized and part are further oxidized into compounds 

23 



354 



DISINFECTION. 



such as carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. Therefore, 
with such apparatus, this method is only to be advised 
for comparatively small apartments or enclosures, and not 
where certainty of disinfection is important. 

However, these objections have been overcome in the 

FIG. 64. 




Modified Novy-Waite formaldehyde generator. 

Kuhn generator, which is simple and positive in opera- 
tion and manipulation, and has been proved efficient and 
reliable under severe tests. In this generator the vapor of 
alcohol passes between two cones of heated platinized as- 
bestos, one of which is so arranged as to act as a deflector, 
thus preventing extreme and concentrated heat being 



FORMALDEHYDE GAS GENERATORS. 



355 



thrown directly on the surface of the vessel containing the 
wood alcohol. Any alcoholic vapor which escapes the 
action of these platinized cones is then subjected to suc- 
cessive passage through five disks or layers of platinized 
wire, commercially known as No. 20 mesh, or containing 

FIG. 65. 




The Trenner-Lee formaldehyde generator. 

400 openings to the square inch. In this way the alcohol 
is brought into thorough contact with a platinized surface, 
and the result is a much more complete conversion into 
formaldehyde, 

Abbott states that he has " obtained the most satisfactory 



356 



DISINFECTION. 



results through the iise of formalin to which 10 per 
cent, of glycerin has been added, as recommended by 
Schlossmann ; and through the employment of a generator 
after the plan of that advised by Novy and Waite. In 
these tests we found that 80 per cent, of all exposed in- 
fected objects in a room could be disinfected when 500 c.c. 

FIG. 66. 




The Kuhn formaldehyde generator. 

of the formalin glycerin mixture per 1000 cubic feet of 
air-space was completely evaporated and the room kept 
closed for three or four hours." 

In the other apparatus one pound of formalin or 
formochloral, from 50 to 75 of Schering's paraform tablets, 

1 Hygiene of Transmissible Diseases, 1899, p. 269. 



AMOUNT OF FORMALDEHYDE NECESSARY. 357 

or a quart of methyl alcohol are to be respectively used for 
each 1000 cubic feet of air-space to be disinfected. 1 

A very simple method of liberating formaldehyde gas 
and one whose efficacy, it is asserted, lias been thoroughly 
established by laboratory tests, is to pour one pound of 
formalin containing 40 per cent, of formaldehyde on eight 
ounces of permanganate of potash in a large vessel, this 
being the proper amount for 1000 cubic feet of space or 
less. The gas is liberated freely and speedily, and with 
but little risk of polymerization or of any remaining in 
solution. Of course, the effectiveness of action will be 
enhanced by the previous or coincident vaporizing of 
water in the room. 

Whenever formaldehyde is employed as a gas, all the 
apertures in the room should be carefully and tightly 
closed, since, having the same specific gravity as the air, 
its diffusion takes place rapidly. Moreover, after a suffi- 
cient volume of the gas has been liberated, it should be 
allowed to act as long as possible, preferably for twelve 
hours at least, and better for twenty-four, since, though it 
is more rapid, the time element is just as important a 
factor with this as with other gaseous disinfectants. Fliigge 
thinks we obtain good results if 90 per cent, of the disease 
germs present are killed by the formaldehyde fumigation. 

Lastly, the gas is an excellent deodorant, combining as 
it does with the effluvia from decomposing substances to 
produce odorless compounds. Its odor, in turn, may be 
quickly dissipated from a room by evaporating a little 
ammonia therein. 

The following table of Koch and Jaeger is added to 
show the comparative disinfectant strength of some sub- 
stances occasionally used for the purpose : 

1 See also U- S. Quarantine Regulations, as quoted on p. 361. 



358 



DISINFECTION. 







Objects submitted 


Time required 


Disinfectant 


Strength. 


to experiments. 


for destruction. 


Bichloride of mercury 


[ Ito 20,000 
1 Ito 1,000 


Anthrax spores 
Anthrax spores 


10 minutes. 
1 minute. 





/ 1 to 12,000 


Anthrax spores 


70 hours. 


Silver nitrate - 


Ito 4,000 


Cholera and typhoid 


2 hours. 




<- 1 to 2,500 


Diphtheria 


2 hours. 


Acid, hydrochloric . . 


2 to 100 


Anthrax spores 


10 days. 


Acid, sulphuric .... 


f 2 to 100 
. 15 to 100 


Anthrax spores 
Anthrax spores 


53 days. 
8 days. 


Ferrum chlorate . . . 


5 to 100 


Anthrax spores 


6 days. 


Calcium chloride . . . 


5 to 100 


Anthrax spores 


5 days. 


Potass, permanganate 


5 to 100 


Anthrax spores 


1 day. 


Caustic lime. .. .{ 246to 10 
1 0.0074 to 100 


Cholera 
Typhoid 


6 hours. 
6 hours. 


( 3 to 1,000 
Acid, carbolic ~\ 


Staphylococcus and 
streptococcus pyojr. ) 


8-11 seconds. 


<-10to 100 


Anthrax spores 


24 hours. 




f Ito 100 


(Nearly all patho-j 


Less than 






t genie germs * 


30 minutes. 


Formaldehyde . . 


3 to 100 


Anthrax spores 


15 minutes. 




(K. Walter.) 




All other pathogenic ) 


1 minute. 






germs 





In any case of infectious disease special attention should 
be given to disinfecting the excretions and secretions 
which are known to be most likely to contain the disease 
germs, viz., the desquamating epithelium and likewise the 
renal secretion in measles, scarlet fever, and all the exan- 
themata ; the dejecta and urine in typhoid fever, cholera, 
tropical or infectious dysentery, and in tuberculosis of 
the intestinal or genito-urinary tract; the sputum in 
tuberculosis of the lungs and air-passages, and in in- 
fluenza, pneumonia, and diphtheria; secretions from the 
throat and nose in diphtheria, scarlet fever and measles ; 
discharges from abscesses, suppurating or gangrenous 
wounds, etc. 

During the course of the illness there should be no 
more communication than is absolutely necessary between 
the occupants of the sick-room and those in the rest of 
the house, and a sheet should be hung at the door and 



J 



SICK-ROOM PRECAUTIONS. 359 

kept moist with some disinfecting solution, as this will 
largely prevent the escape of infected dust particles 
through the doorway. All articles going from the room, 
whether dishes, clothing, or food, should be submerged in 
a disinfectant or covered with a cloth wet with it, and 
should be burned, boiled, or otherwise disinfected as soon 
as possible thereafter. Excreta should be disinfected as 
soon as discharged from the body, but should not be 
emptied into a water-closet, sewer, or cesspool till the dis- 
infectant has had ample time to do its work, at least one 
hour being given for this action. Ventilation should be 
as perfect as possible ; sunlight should be admitted when- 
ever it will not injure or annoy the patient, and, above 
all, cleanliness in every respect should be insisted upon as 
being most essential. 

The dress of the nurse or attendant should be such 
that dust and germs do not readily adhere to it and that 
it may readily be disinfected and cleaned, the cotton uni- 
forms of a hospital training school being almost ideal in 
this respect. If this were in the form of an overgarment 
that could readily be slipped off when the nurse has to 
leave the sick-room, there Avould be an additional element 
of safety, just as there will be if there is provided 
something like a long, old-fashioned linen " duster " for 
the casual visitor, whether physician or parent, to slip on 
when entering the room. The nurse should, of course, 
bathe not only the patient but herself as well with disin- 
fectant solutions, such as Labarraque's (diluted), carbolic 
acid, or trikresol ; should destroy at once all possible infec- 
tion coming from the patient, and at least every other day 
should wipe with a cloth dampened in a disinfectant all 
window-sills, tables, and other horizontal surfaces upon 
which dust and the attached germs continually settle. A 



360 DISINFECTION. 

closet with a close-fitting door may be made to serve as a 
good disinfecting chamber for garments that are not in 
immediate use, as a few ounces of formalin sprinkled on 
the garments themselves or a few paraform tablets burned 
in one of the Schering lamps will quickly sterilize the 
contents of the closet without serious discomfort to the 
occupants of the adjoining room. 

It is taken for granted that, if possible, before the occu- 
pancy of the room by the sick, all upholstered furniture, 
heavy drapery, and everything not absolutely necessary 
were removed from the room. Even the carpet should 
be taken up and rugs used temporarily in its place. If 
this is done, the work of disinfecting the room after it 
is no longer needed by the patient will be greatly facili- 
tated. 

Where the use of formaldehyde is not available, the 
final disinfection should be carried out as follows : All 
bed-clothing, etc., should be either submerged in some 
disinfectant solution or in boiling water, or else covered 
with a sheet wet with a disinfectant, and boiled as soon 
as possible thereafter. No clothing should be sent away 
from the house to be laundered. Bed-quilts, blankets, 
mattresses, etc., should be subjected to steam sterilization 
if possible; if not, the blankets and quilts should be 
carefully sterilized by boiling, and the mattresses would 
better be burned, though they may be disinfected inter- 
nally by the introduction of formalin or formaldehyde gas. 
The carpet or rugs should be carefully taken up, carried 
to an open space, well beaten, and then hung in the open 
air for a time, provided they cannot be sent at once to 
some place where steam sterilization is available. All 
furniture and the woodwork of the room should be 
washed with corrosive sublimate solution (1 to 1000 



TREATMENT OF INFECTED ROOMS. 361 

or 500), taking care to get the fluid into all crevices. 
The floor may be scrubbed with lye or hot soda solution 
(4 per cent.), and then mopped and flooded with a corro- 
sive sublimate solution. The walls should also be wiped 
with cloths wrung out of this solution, and any paper upon 
them removed before fumigation, unless it be new and 
free from cracks. Or the walls may be rubbed down 
with crumbs of bread and the latter burned, as the bread 
contains much gluten, to which the dust and bacteria 
adhere. Fumigation with chlorine or sulphur dioxide is 
usually of somewhat doubtful efficiency unless consider- 
able attention is given to the details. If it is employed, 
it should be done first, before the bedding, etc., is removed 
and the walls, floors, woodwork are wiped or washed, and 
all openings from the room, cracks, crevices, etc., should 
be closed on the outside, and sufficient gas (chlorine or 
sulphurous acid) liberated by suitable means. The vessels 
containing the gas-generating substances should be placed 
in larger vessels containing water to avoid the danger of 
fire, and vapor of water should be liberated in some way 
simultaneously with the gas, say by placing hot bricks or 
the like in the water, or else water should be sprayed 
freely from an atomizer over everything in the room, as 
neither chlorine nor sulphurous acid has much disinfect- 
ing value except in the presence of moisture, and the 
effect of formaldehyde is much enhanced by it. The 
room should then remain closed for twenty-four hours, 
and, lastly, should be well ventilated for a day or two 
before being furnished and occupied again. 

Should it be possible to use formaldehyde, the disinfec- 
tion is much simplified, and is to be carried out in the 
way already indicated ; but whatever the gaseous disin- 
fectant employed, it should always be followed by the 



362 DISINFECTION. 

washing or wiping of walls, ceilings, floor, and all exposed 
surfaces with a disinfectant solution, and by the steam 
sterilization or boiling of all removable articles where- 
ever possible. In fact, it should be remembered that 
no one of these processes will in any probability destroy 
all the infection, but that each must be carried out with 
conscientious thoroughness and strictest attention to detail 
in order to secure the greatest measure of success. 

The United States Quarantine Regulations, promul- 
gated April 1, 1903, authorize the following disinfectants 
and the met/tods of (generating and using them : 

Physical Disinfectants. Burning : Of unquestioned 
efficiency, but seldom required. 

Soiling : Very efficient and of wide range of applica- 
bility. The articles must be wholly immersed for not less 
than thirty minutes in water actually boiling (100 C.). 
The addition of 1 per cent, of carbonate of soda renders 
the process applicable to polished steel, cutting instru- 
ments or tools. 

Steam : (a) Flowing steam (not under pressure). Flow- 
ing steam (not under pressure) when applied under suit- 
able conditions is an efficient disinfecting agent. The 
exposure must be continued thirty minutes after the tem- 
perature has reached 100 C. 

(b) Steam under pressure without vacuum. Steam 
under pressure will sterilize, provided that the process is 
continued twenty minutes after the pressure reaches 15 
pounds per square inch. The air must be expelled from 
the apparatus at the beginning of the process. If im- 
practicable to obtain the designated pressure, a longer ex- 
posure will accomplish the same result. 

(c) Steam under pressure with vacuum. Steam in a 
special apparatus with vacuum attachment is the best 



QUARANTINE REGULATIONS. 363 

method of applying steam under pressure, the object of 
the vacuum apparatus being to expel the air and to pro- 
mote the penetration of the steam. The process is to be 
continued for twenty minutes after the pressure reaches 
10 pounds to the square inch. 

Gaseous Disinfectants. /Sulphur dioxide: Sulphur 
dioxide is efficient, but requires the presence of moisture. 
It is only a surface disinfectant, and is lacking in pen- 
etrating properties. An atmosphere containing 4.5 per 
cent, can be obtained by burning 5 pounds of sulphur 
per 1000 cubic feet of space. This amount would require 
the evaporation or volatilization of about one pint of water. 
Under these conditions the time of exposure should not 
be less than twenty-four hours for bacterial infections. 
A shorter time will suffice for fumigation necessary to 
kill mosquitoes and other vermin. 

The sulphur may be burned in shallow iron pots (Dutch 
ovens) containing not more than 30 pounds of sulphur 
for each pot, and the pots should stand in vessels of 
water. The sulphur pots should be elevated from the 
bottom of the compartment to be disinfected in order to 
obtain the maximum possible percentage of combustion of 
sulphur. The sulphur should be in a state of fine division, 
and ignition is best acqomplished by alcohol ; special care 
to be taken with this method to prevent damage to cargo 
of vessel by fire ; or the sulphur may be burned in a special 
furnace, the sulphur dioxide beiQg distributed by a power 
fan. This method is peculiarly applicable to cargo vessels. 

Liquefied sulphur dioxide may be used for disinfection 
in place of sulphur dioxide generated as above, it being 
borne in mind that this process will require two pounds 
of the liquefied gas for each pound of sulphur as indicated 
in the above paragraphs. 



364 DISINFECTION. 

Sulphur dioxide is especially applicable to the holds of 
vessels, or to freight cars and apartments that may be 
tightly closed and which do not contain objects injured by 
the gas. Sulphur dioxide bleaches fabrics or materials 
dyed with vegetable or aniline dyes. It destroys linen 
or cotton goods by rotting the fiber through the agency 
of the acids formed. It injures most metals. It is 
promptly destructive to all forms of animal life. This 
property renders it a valuable agent for the extermination 
of rats, insects, and other vermin. 

Formaldehyde Gas. Formaldehyde gas is effective 
if applied by one of the methods given below. Formal- 
dehyde gas has the advantage as a disinfectant that it 
does not injure fabrics or most colors. It is not poisonous 
to the higher forms of animal life. It fails to kill vermin 
such as rats, mice, roaches, bedbugs, etc. The method is 
not applicable to the holds of large vessels. Formal- 
dehyde is applicable to the disinfection of rooms, cloth- 
ing, and fabrics, but should not be depended upon for 
bedding, upholstered furniture, and the like, when deep 
penetration is required. 1 

Many formaldehyde solutions do not contain 40 per 
cent, of formaldehyde, and all are apt to deteriorate with 
time. It is therefore necessary to use a quantity in excess 
of the amount prescribed in these regulations, unless the 
solution has been recently analyzed. 

The following methods of evolving the gas may be 
used : 

(a) Autoclave under pressure, 3 to 12 hours' exposure. 

(b) Lamp or generator, 6 to 18 hours' exposure. 

(c) Spraying, 12 to 24 hours' exposure. 

1 It should be noted that formaldehyde disinfection is more efficient 
in warm, moist, or stiH weather than in cold, dry, and windy weather. 



FORMALDEHYDE GAS. 365 

(d) Formaldehyde and dry heat in partial vacuum, 1 
hour's exposure. 

The minimum number of hours' exposure, as given 
above, applies to empty rooms of tight construction 
containing smooth, hard surfaces ; the maximum 
number of hours exposure applying in all cases to 
textiles and other articles of a similar kind requiring 
more or less penetration. 

Autoclave under pressure : This method has consider- 
able penetrating power when applied as detailed below. 
Rooms or apartments need no special preparation be- 
yond the ordinary closing of doors and windows. Pasting, 
caulking, or chinking of ordinary cracks and crevices is 
not necessary. The doors of lockers and closets and the 
drawers of bureaus should be opened. In this apparatus 
use formalin (40 per cent.), with the addition of a neutral 
salt, such as calcium chloride (20 per cent.). The gas 
must be evolved under a pressure not less than 45 pounds. 
After the gas is separated from its watery solution the 
pressure may be allowed to fall and steam projected into 
the compartment to supply the necessary moisture. Use 
not less than 10 ounces of formalin per 1000 cubic feet, 
and keep the room closed for three to twelve hours after 
the completion of the process. For large rooms the gas 
must be introduced at several points as far apart as pos- 
sible. It is applicable to the disinfection of clothing and 
fabrics suspended loosely in such a manner that every 
article is freely accessible to the gas from all directions. 

Lamp or generator : This method requires an apparatus 
producing formaldehyde by a partial oxidation of wood 
alcohol, and in using it the room or apartment should be 
rendered tight as practicable. Oxidize 24 ounces of wood 
alcohol per 1000 cubic feet, and keep the room closed 



366 DISINFECTION. 

from six to eighteen hours, in accordance with the pro- 
visions in a previous paragraph. This method leaves 
little or no odor. When applied to clothing and textiles, 
the articles should be suspended in a tight room and so 
disposed as to permit free access of the gas. (See also 
previous paragraph.) The wood alcohol should be of 95 
per cent, strength, and should not contain more than 5 
per cent of acetone. 

Spraying : The formalin (40 per cent.) should be 
sprayed on sheets suspended in the room in such a man- 
ner that the solution remains in small drops on the sheet. 

Spray not less than 10 ounces of formalin (40 per cent.) 
for each 1000 cubic feet. Used in this way a sheet will 
hold about 5 ounces without dripping or the drops run- 
ning together. The room must be very tightly sealed 
in disinfecting with this process, and kept closed not less 
than twelve hours. The method is limited to rooms or 
apartments not exceeding 2000 cubic feet. The formalin 
may also be sprayed upon the walls, floors, and objects in 
the rooms. 

Formaldehyde with dry heat in partial vacuum : This 
method has superior penetrating powers and is specially 
applicable to clothing and baggage. The requirements of 
this method are (1) dry heat of 60 C. sustained for one 
hour; (2) a vacuum of 15 inches; (3) formaldehyde 
evolved from a mixture of formalin with a neutral salt, 
in an autoclave under pressure, using not less than 30 
ounces of formalin (40 percent.) for 1000 cubic feet ; and 
(4) a total exposure, under these combined conditions, of 
one hour. 

The stated times of exposure to sulphur dioxide and 
formaldehyde are sufficient to destroy bacterial infection 
due to non-spore-bearing organisms, providing that the 



CHEMICAL SOLUTIONS. 367 

infection is present on the surface. If the room is of 
peculiar construction, so as to impede the diffusion of 
the gas, or if the room is a dirty one, or if on account of 
any other condition rendering the germicidal action of 
the gas more difficult, the time of exposure should be 
proportionately increased, or supplanted by other methods. 

Chemical Solutions. Bichloride of mercury. Bi- 
chloride of mercury is a disinfectant of undoubted potency 
and wide range of applicability. It cannot be depended 
upon to penetrate substances in the presence of albumin- 
ous matter. It should be used in solutions of 1 to 1000. 
The solubility of bichloride of mercury may be increased 
by using sea water for the solution, or by adding 2 parts 
per 1000 of sodium or ammonium chloride to the water 
employed. 

Carbolic acid : Carbolic acid in the strength of 5 per 
cent, may be substituted for the bichloride of mercury, 
and should be employed in the disinfection of the cabins 
and living apartments of ships to obviate injurious action 
on polished metals, bright work, etc. 

Formalin. Formalin containing 40 per cent, of for- 
maldehyde may be used in a 5 per cent, solution as a 
substitute for bichloride of mercury or carbolic acid, and 
is useful for the disinfection of surfaces, dejecta, fabrics, 
and a great variety of objects, owing to its non-injurious 
character. 

In the foregoing chapter the author is much indebted to A. C. Abbott's 
Hygiene of Transmissible Diseases for authoritative and up-to-date in- 
formation as to the value of the agents and methods of infection, and the 
reader is referred to this work for an abundance of detail which the 
limits of the present volume do not permit. 



CHAPTER XI. 

QUAKANTINE. 

QUARANTINE may be described as the methods and 
measures imposed by a government local, State, or na- 
tional to prevent the introduction of infectious disease 
into the country or from one locality to another. Although 
the term in itself is misleading, being derived from the 
Italian quarante (forty), and signifying the period of 
detention of the first Venetian quarantines, it is now 
generally taken to indicate the entire routine of inspec- 
tion, disinfection, and detention, without regard to the 
length of time involved. 

While all civilized nations have from the earliest times 
recognized the importance of separating those afflicted 
with epidemic disease from the well, the development of 
the idea and practice of quarantine has necessarily been 
consequent upon the growth of commerce ; and while 
there had practically always been isolation for leprosy, 
the first quarantine enactments, in our meaning of the 
term, were put in force in Venice about the beginning of 
the fifteenth century as a barrier to both the black and 
the Egyptian plague. Then it was realized that epidemic 
diseases were transmitted by those attacked, a bureau of 
health and a lazaretto were established, the effects of 
those who died of the plague were destroyed, and the 
period of detention of incoming vessels, passengers, and 
cargoes was fixed at forty days, the idea being that this 
pwiod was in itself more or less mystic and salutary. 
368 



HISTORY AND PURPOSE OF QUARANTINE. 369 

As time went on and the plague spread over the whole 
of Europe, the number of lazarettos was largely increased, 
especially in the eighteenth century. Of these, the one 
at Marseilles became the most noted, not only because it 
was located at one of the most important ports of the 
Mediterranean, but because of its excellent care and man- 
agement. Thanks to the increased efficacy of quarantine 
and other sanitary regulations, as the knowledge concern- 
ing them developed, the plague rapidly subsided soon 
after the beginning of the last century, and interest in 
it was supplanted by that in relation to the frequent epi- 
demics of cholera and yellow fever that began to alarm 
the civilized world ; and it is to prevent the ingress of 
these latter diseases, together with leprosy, smallpox, and 
typhus fever, that the present quarantine regulations are 
in the main devised. 

With the knowledge already gained regarding the 
nature and causes of infectious diseases, their periods of 
incubation, etc., it is at once evident that it will be neither 
necessary nor wise to fix upon a prolonged and arbitrary 
time during which vessels or passengers must be detained 
in quarantine. All that is needed is that the proper in- 
specting officers shall be satisfied that there is no danger 
of infection entering the country, and, where any deten- 
tion is necessary, it is only for so long as will suffice for 
the disinfection of the vessel, cargo, and passengers' effects, 
and to cover the period of incubation of the suspected 
disease. 

The present quarantine laws of the United States, and 
the latest regulations of the Treasury Department based 
upon them, are especially designed to afford the greatest 
possible protection to the country against the importation 
of disease with the least possible detention of incoming 

24 



370 QUARANTINE. 

vessels and passengers. An important innovation that 
facilitates both these ends has been the establishment of 
quarantine in foreign lands, as it were, viz., the inspec- 
tion and, if necessary, disinfection by officers of this gov- 
ernment of all vessels, passengers, and cargoes leaving a 
foreign port for any port of the United States. This 
undoubtedly greatly diminishes the danger of the intro- 
duction of any contagious disease ; but in addition, there 
is that section of the law that provides that the President 
may, whenever the condition of affairs shall seem to war- 
rant it, " prohibit, in whole or in part, the introduction 
of persons and property from such countries or places as 
he shall designate and for such period of time as he shall 
deem necessary." 

Accordingly, every vessel clearing from a foreign port 
for this country must obtain from the United States con- 
sular officer of the port, or from the medical officer ap- 
pointed for the purpose, a bill of health, " setting forth 
the sanitary history and condition of said vessel, and that 
it has in all respects complied with the rules and regula- 
tions in such cases prescribed for securing the best sani- 
tary conditions of the said vessel, its cargo, passengers, 
and crew." Before signing the bill of health the consular 
or medical officer must be satisfied that the conditions 
certified to therein are true, and must personally inspect 
" all vessels from ports at which cholera, yellow fever, or 
plague prevails, or at which smallpox or typhus fever 
prevails in epidemic form," and " all vessels carrying 
steerage passengers." Moreover the vessel must be clean 
in all parts before taking on either passengers or crew, 
and all parts liable to infection must be disinfected if any 
infectious disease has occurred on the last voyage. The 
bedding provided for steerage passengers must also be 



QUARANTINE REGULATIONS. 371 

destroyed or else disinfected before'being used on another 
voyage. 

" At ports where cholera prevails in epidemic form, 
special care should be taken to prevent the water and 
food supply from being infected. The drinking water 
should be boiled and the food thoroughly cooked and pro- 
tected against contamination by flies, etc. Where yellow 
fever prevails, precautions should be taken to prevent the 
introduction of mosquitoes on board the vessel. At ports 
or places where plague prevails, every precaution must be 
taken to prevent the vessel becoming infected through 
the agency of rats, ants, flies, fleas, or other animals. 

" At all infected ports or places, communication be- 
tween the vessel and shore should be reduced to a min- 
imum." 

The regulations also indicate what kind of cargo, com- 
ing from or through infected districts, may or may not be 
shipped, and what kinds must invariably be disinfected 
under any circumstances. 

As to the passengers, while they are divided into two 
classes, cabin and steerage, no person suffering from 
cholera, smallpox, yellow or typhoid fever, scarlet fever, 
measles, or diphtheria is allowed to ship ; nor should pas- 
sengers sln'p from an infected port. Steerage passengers 
and crew who have been exposed to smallpox must be 
vaccinated before shipping unless they can show proof 
of immunity by former attack or satisfactory vaccination. 
If the steerage passengers and crew have been exposed to 
typhus fever infection, they may not embark until twelve 
days, and for plague, seven days, after such exposure and 
the disinfection of their baggage, while steerage passengers 
from cholera-infected districts must be detained in suit- 
able quarters for five days, " the said period to begin only 



372 QUARANTINE. 

after the bathing of the passengers, disinfection of all 
their baggage and apparel, removal of all food brought 
with them, and isolation from others not so treated." 
The same rules as to detention and disinfection are to be 
applied to those coming from places where the plague, 
yellow fever, or smallpox is prevalent in an epidemic 
form, and if one of these diseases or cholera breaks out 
in the detention barracks, there must be a repetition of 
the previous isolation, disinfection, etc., dating from the 
removal of the last case. Cabin passengers from cholera 
or other infected ports or districts should produce satis- 
factory evidence as to their place of abode for the five 
days immediately preceding embarkation, and if there is 
any reason for the belief that any one of these or his 
baggage has been infected, such passenger is to be detained 
as long as the inspecting officer may deem wise, and his 
baggage is to be disinfected. 

Every passenger must also have an inspection-card, 
stamped by the consular or medical officer, giving name 
of passenger, and of ship and port with date of departure, 
etc. ; and all baggage of passengers must have a label 
bearing the seal or stamp of the United States consular 
or medical officer, the name of port and of the vessel 
carrying the baggage, and the statement and date of 
inspection or disinfection. 

It is evident that if these regulations at foreign ports, 
together with those required at sea viz., rigorous clean- 
liness and free ventilation of the vessel, daily inspection 
by the ship's physician, isolation and disinfection of the 
sick, etc. be properly observed, there can be but little 
chance of the germs of quarantinable disease gaining en- 
trance to our country, and, since the duration of the voy- 
age will in most cases exceed the period of incubation of 






ENTRY OF VESSELS. 373 

most of the contagious diseases, if none of these manifest 
themselves on shipboard at sea there will be no need for 
any detention at the port of entry beyond that which the 
inspecting officer stationed there requires for the perform- 
ance of his duties, viz., to inspect the vessel, bill of 
health, crew and passengers, and their lists and manifests, 
the ship physician's clinical record of all cases treated, 
and, when necessary, the ship's log. 

This inspection service is to be maintained at every port 
throughout the year, and is in force not only with respect 
to all vessels from foreign ports, but also regarding any 
vessel with sickness on board, vessels from domestic ports 
where cholera or yellow fever prevails, or where small- 
pox or typhus fever prevails in epidemic form, vessels 
from foreign ports carrying passengers having entered 
a port of the United States without complete discharge of 
passengers or cargo, and vessels having been treated at 
national quarantine stations that are located a considerable 
distance from the port of entry of said vessels. More- 
over, the duties of the inspecting officer above stated are 
only the required minimum standard, and such other 
regulations may be added by legal State or local authori- 
ties as may, for special reasons, be necessary. 

If the inspecting or health officer is satisfied that the 
vessel is not infected and all the foregoing requirements 
have been complied with, he gives his certificate, to be 
delivered to the collector of customs of the port, and no 
vessel is permitted to laud any of its passengers or cargo 
unless it have this certificate, together with the bill of 
health, etc., from the port of departure, as evidence that 
the regulations have been properly observed. 

On the other hand, if vessels arrive under the follow- 
ing conditions they are to be remanded by the authority 



374 QUARANTINE. 

of the Secretary of the Treasury to the nearest national 
or other quarantine station, where proper accommodations 
and appliances are provided for the necessary disinfection 
and treatment of the vessel, passengers, and cargo ; and 
only after treatment and after obtaining a certificate from 
the proper officer that the vessel, cargo, and passengers are 
each and all free from infectious disease and from danger 
of conveying the same, can a vessel be admitted to entry 
to the ports named in the certificate. 

The conditions under which arriving vessels are to be 
placed in quarantine are these : " (a) With quarantin- 
able disease on board or having had such disease on board 
during the voyage," the quarantinable disease for the pur- 
poses of these regulations being cholera (cholerine), plague, 
yellow fever, smallpox, typhus fever, and leprosy. (6) 
Any vessel which the quarantine officer considers infected, 
(c) If arriving at a port south of the southern boundary 
of Maryland in the season of close quarantine, March 15 
to Nov. 1, directly or via a northern port, from a tropical 
American port, unless said port is known to be free from 
yellow fever, (d) In the case of vessels arriving at a 
northern port without sickness on board from ports where 
yellow fever prevails, the personnel shall be detained 
under observation at quarantine to complete five days 
from the port of departure. (e) Towboats and other 
vessels having had communication with vessels subject to 
quarantine shall themselves be quarantined if they have 
been exposed to infection." 

The following exceptions may be made to Rules c and 
d with regard to vessels quarantined against on account 
of yellow fever. " (a) Vessels bound for ports in the United 
States north of the southern boundary of Maryland, 
with good sanitary condition and history, having had no 



ENTRY OF VESSELS. 375 

sickness on board at ports of departure, en route or on 
arrival, provided they have been five days from last 
infected or suspected port, need not be subject to quaran- 
tine." But if said vessels carry passengers destined for 
places south of this latitude, the baggage of said pas- 
sengers shall be disinfected, and such baggage shall be 
labeled, (i) Vessels engaged in the fruit trade may be 
admitted to entry without detention, provided they have 
complied in all respects with the special rules and regula- 
tions made by the Secretary of the Treasury with regard 
to vessels engaged in said trade." ' 

Moreover, all passengers other than those occupying 
first or second cabin, and all persons arriving on vessels 
that have had smallpox on board, must be vaccinated 
or detained in quarantine not less than fourteen days, 
unless they can show satisfactory evidence of recent vac- 
cination or of having had smallpox ; and all effects and 
compartments liable to convey infection must be disin- 
fected. 

Vessels arriving at quarantine with leprosy on board 
shall not be granted pratique until the leper with his or 
her baggage has been removed from the vessel to the 
quarantine station. No alien leper shall be landed. If 
the leper is an alien passenger and the vessel from a for- 
eign port, action will be taken as provided by the 
immigration laws and regulations of the United States. 
If the leper is an alien and a member of the crew, and the 
vessel is from a foreign port, said leper shall be detained 
at quarantine at the vessel's expense, until taken aboard 
by the same vessel when outward bound." 2 

There are ten national quarantine stations and a number 

1 Quarantine Laws and Regulations of the United States. 
- Ibid. 



376 QUARANTINE. 

of others under State or municipal control ; those which 
have steam disinfection chambers and other efficient 
equipments are located at Portland, Me.; Boston, New 
York, Sandy Hook, Delaware Breakwater, Reedy Island 
in the Delaware River, Cape Charles, Baltimore ; Wil- 
mington, N. C.; Savannah, Blackbeard Island, Ga.; 
Charleston, Dry Tortugas, Key West, Mullet Keys, Pen- 
sacola, Mobile, Chandeleur Islands, New Orleans, Gal- 
veston, San Diego, San Francisco, arid Port Townsend ; 
the ten national ones being included in the list. 

The essential requisites for a properly equipped quaran- 
tine station, after the selection of a proper location which 
should be convenient, but not in the line of future city 
growth are the following: 1 1. A boarding station, in- 
cluding boat-house and boatmen's quarters. 2. A board- 
ing-boat, preferably a steamer. 3. An anchorage for the 
detention of infected vessels. It should be safely out of 
the track of commerce, convenient but not too close to the 
main quarantine establishment, sheltered, and with good 
holding ground for anchors. 4. A fumigation steamer 
with appliances for generating and forcing sulphurous 
acid (or formaldehyde) gas into vessels, and with tanks 
and pumps for disinfecting solutions. 5. A wharf, in 
water at least twenty feet deep, and upon which are con- 
structed a warehouse, tanks for disinfecting solutions, and 
a disinfecting house containing steam disinfecting cham- 
bers. 6. A lazaretto or hospital for the treatment of 
contagious diseases. 7. A hospital for non-contagious 
diseases. 8. Barracks or quarters for the detention in 
groups for those who may have been exposed to contagion 
or infection. 9. Quarters for medical officers. 10. A 
cremation furnace. 

1 Robe's Hygiene. 



TREATMENT OF INFECTED VESSELS. 377 

When a vessel is remanded to quarantine by the in- 
specting officers at a port of entry, its treatment and that 
of its cargo and passengers will depend largely upon the 
disease with which it is infected, being more severe if the 
latter is cholora or yellow fever. In case of infection by 
either of these diseases the vessel is at once sent to the 
anchorage, and must remain there until the passengers 
have been discharged and the vessel purified, and in any 
case there must be no direct communication allowed be- 
tween quarantine or a vessel in quarantine, and any per- 
son or place outside. 

Moreover, if cholera has occurred on board, all passen- 
gers and all of the crew, except such as are necessary to 
care for her, must be at once removed, the sick to be sent 
to the lazaretto or hospital, others specially suspected 
must be carefully isolated, and the remainder separated 
into small groups, between which there must be no com- 
munication. Those who are especially liable to convey 
infection must be bathed and furnished with sterile cloth- 
ing before entering the barracks, and no articles capable 
of carrying infective matter, especially food, should be 
taken into the barracks. If the disease has occurred in 
the steerage, all the steerage passengers must be bathed 
and their clothing disinfected ; and in any case all steerage 
baggage and eifects, and any other baggage, etc., that has 
been exposed to the infection, all articles of the cargo 
likely to be infected, and all furniture, living apartments, 
and such other portions of the vessel as may possibly re- 
tain or convey infection must be disinfected. The water- 
supply must be changed at once, the tanks thoroughly 
disinfected by steam or potassium permanganate solution, 
and refilled with water from a pure source or with water 
recently boiled. The water-ballast of a cholera-infected 



378 QUARANTINE. 

vessel, or of one from a cholera-infected port, should 
never be discharged in fresh or brackish water without 
previous disinfection, and the ballast tanks should be re- 
filled with sea-water or else be disinfected before refilling. 
Nothing is to be thrown overboard from a cholera- 
infected vessel in quarantine, but everything that is to be 
destroyed, even deck-sweepings, should be burned in the 
furnace. 

The disinfection of the holds of vessels is to be by 
mechanical cleansing, by an acid bichloride of mercury 
solution (1 to 800) applied under pressure, and by sul- 
phurous acid gas (10 per cent, per volume strength), for 
from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. All ballast must 
be discharged or disinfected before the disinfection of the 
hold, and all solid ballast must be disinfected before being 
discharged into fresh water. The steerage and forecastle 
are to be disinfected by live steam, if possible, for at least 
half an hour, and, if not, by sulphur dioxide and bichlo- 
ride solution, as was the hold. Baggage, bedding, carpets, 
etc., are to be removed with caution and to be disinfected 
by steam or by boiling, and, finally, all woodwork of the 
vessel is to be thoroughly cleansed mechanically and 
then washed with an acid bichloride of mercury solution 
(1 to 1000). 

The following Rules for the application of disinfectants 
in quarantine work were issued as part of the quarantine 
regulations of the United States Government on April 1, 
1903: 

" Application of Disinfectants in Quarantine Work. 
The holds of iron vessels, empty, shall be disinfected 
by either : 

(a) Sulphur dioxide generated by burning sulphur 5 
pounds per 1,000 cubic feet of air space, or liberated from 






DISINFECTANTS IN QUARANTINE WORK. 379 

10 pounds of liquid sulphur dioxide, sufficient moisture 
being present in both cases; time of exposure, twenty-four 
hours. 

(5) Washing with a solution of bichloride of mercury, 
1 : 1,000. 

Holds of wooden vessels, empty, shall be disinfected by : 
(a) Sulphur dioxide in the manner prescribed above, 
followed by : 

(6) Washing with a solution of bichloride of mercury. 
In the case of all vessels, both iron and wooden, when 

treated for yellow fever or plague infection, the first pro- 
cess shall be a preliminary fumigation by sulphur dioxide 
in the manner previously stated, in order to insure the 
destruction of mosquitoes, rats, and other vermin. 

Holds of cargo vessels, when cargo cannot be removed, 
shall be disinfected in so far as possible by sulphur dioxide, 
not less than 4 per cent, per volume strength, and where 
possible this should be generated from a furnace to min- 
imize danger of fin; in cargo. 

Living apartments, cabins, and forecastles of vessels 
shall be disinfected by one or more of the following 
methods : 

(a) Sulphur dioxide, the destructive action of the gas 
on property being borne in mind. 

(&) Formaldehyde gas. 

(c) Washing with solution of bichloride of mercury, 
1 : 1,000 or 5 per cent, solution of formalin, or 5 per 
cent, solution of carbolic acid, preference being given to 
carbolic acid for application to polished woods, bright 
metals, and other objects injured by metallic salts. 

The forecastle, steerage, and other living apartments in 
bad sanitary condition must be disinfected by method a 
followed by method c. 



380 QUARANTINE. 

Mattresses, pillows, and heavy fabrics are to be disin- 
fected by : 
(a) Boiling. 

(6) Flowing steam, /. e., steam not under pressure. 
(<?) Steam under pressure. 

(d) Steam in a special apparatus with vacuum attach- 
ment. 

Clothing, fabrics, textiles, curtains, hangings, etc., may 
be treated by either of the above methods from a to d 
inclusive, as' circumstances may demand, or by formal- 
dehyde gas or sulphur dioxide where the article is of a 
character which will not be damaged by sulphur dioxide. 

Articles injured by steam, such as leather, furs, skins, 
rubber, trunks, valises, hats and caps, bound books, silks, 
and fine woolens should not be disinfected by steam. 
Such articles should be disinfected by formaldehyde gas 
or by any of the agents allowed in these regulations which 
may be applicable thereto. Those which will be injured 
by wetting should be disinfected by a gaseous agent. 

Clothing, textiles, and baggage, clean and in good con- 
dition, but suspected of infection, can be efficiently and 
least injuriously disinfected by formaldehyde gas, gen- 
erated by one of the methods previously described. 

Textiles which are soiled with the discharges of the sick 
or presumably are deeply infected, must be disinfected by : 

(a) Boiling. 

(6) Steam. 

(e) Immersion in one of the germicidal solutions. 
Cooking and eating utensils are always to be disinfected 

by immersion in boiling water or by steam." 

As to the passengers and others who have been isolated 
in groups, they are to be inspected twice daily by the 
physician and remain under his constant surveillance, 



DISINFECTION OF VESSELS. 381 

and can have no communication with any one in a 
different group or outside of quarantine, except through the 
quarantine officer. The water-supply and food-supply are 
to be strictly guarded, and are issued to each group sepa- 
rately. The latter is to be simple in character and abun- 
dant in quantity, but no fruit is to be permitted. Strict 
cleanliness is to be enjoined, disinfection wherever neces- 
sary, and, in case cholera or other disease appears in any 
group, the sick will be immediately removed to the hos- 
pital, and the rest of the group bathed and their effects 
disinfected, and all of them removed to other quarters, if 
possible. None are to leave quarantine until five days 
after the last exposure to infection and the final disinfec- 
tion of such effects as were taken to barracks ; and no 
convalescent may leave quarantine until a bacteriological 
examination shows him to be free from infection. 

As has been stated, the treatment of vessels infected 
by other diseases is not necessarily so severe as the above, 
but in each case every effort is made to allow no loophole 
for the entrance of infection into the country ; and in the 
case of yellow fever there is to be the same isolation of 
all not required to care for the vessel and a detention of 
at least five days after disinfection has been thoroughly 
performed and completed. The detention for typhus 
fever is to be twenty days, and for smallpox fourteen 
days, the detention dating from the last exposure to either 
disease. 

No vessel may leave quarantine until she has a certifi- 
cate from the health (quarantine) officer that she has in 
all respects complied with the quarantine regulations, and 
that, in his opinion, she will not convey quarantinable 
disease. She is then said to be granted free pratique. 

The law further provides that " when practicable, alien 



382 QUARANTINE. 

immigrants arriving at Canadian and Mexican ports, 
destined for the United States, shall be inspected at the 
port of arrival by the United States consular or medical 
officer, and be subjected to the same sanitary restrictions 
as are called for by the rules and regulations governing 
United States ports ; that inspection-cards will be issued 
by the United States officer at the port of arrival to all 
such immigrants, and labels affixed to their baggage, as 
is required at foreign ports." Where such immigrants 
are not inspected at the port of arrival they shall enter 
the United States only at certain designated points on the 
frontier, and then only after such inspection, detention, 
disinfection, vaccination, etc., as may be necessary or 
required by the officers there stationed. 

There is also provision for the inspection of State or 
local quarantines from time to time by the Supervising 
Surgeon-General of the Marine-Hospital Service, or by 
any officer of that service detailed by him ; and for the 
observance at all quarantines of such additional rules and 
regulations as may from time to time be promulgated by 
him. 

Inland Quarantine. Under this heading may be con- 
sidered the means that may be employed to prevent an 
epidemic extending from one locality or district to an- 
other, although the principle and aims are practically the 
same as those of maritime quarantines, viz., to define 
certain boundaries beyond which no person or thing 
capable of carrying infection may pass, and to establish 
certain points of ingress or egress on these boundaries 
where there may be the necessary detention, inspection, 
disinfection, etc. 

The sanitary cordon " consists of a line of guards, mili- 
tary or civil, thrown around a district or locality, either 






INLAND QUARANTINE. 383 

to protect the same from the surrounding country when 
infected, or to protect the surrounding country from the 
infected district or locality." "It is not intended to 
bottle up all the people who are caught within an infected 
district, but, on the contrary, is intended as a means of 
exit to those who will not carry with them contagious dis- 
eases to the people beyond." l It may be single or double ; 
in the latter case the inner line closely encircles the well- 
defined infected locality, and the outer line the whole sus- 
pected territory. This latter may be removed as soon as 
it is evident that the space between it and the inner line 
is not infected. To be efficient the cordon must be so 
guarded that, even though it be many miles in length, no 
unauthorized person may pass through it, while at certain 
places upon it camps of probation or detention must be 
established, where all persons coming from the infected 
locality may be kept under observation for a time equal 
to the period of incubation of the disease in question. 
These camps of probation or detention are to be distin- 
guished from the camps of refuge, which were first sug- 
gested by Surgeon-General Woodward in 1878, and which 
are " simple residence camps established to receive the 
population of an infected community when it has been 
determined to depopulate the infected district." 

At these camps of probation provision must be made 
for inspecting every person and disinfecting all baggage 
before entering camp, for isolating the occupants and 
housing and feeding them in the most comfortable and 
sanitary manner during the detention, for inspections 
twice or thrice daily, for the isolation and care of the sick 
in hospitals at a safe distance from camp, and for the 
issuance of a certificate granting "free pratique" when 
the period of detention is over. 

1 Robe's Hygiene : "Quarantine." 



384 QUARANTINE. 

A notable instance of the sanitary cordon was that about 
the city of Brownsville, Texas, and along the Rio Grande, 
in 1882 ; and of a probation camp, that at Camp Perry, 
Florida, in 1888. 

In addition to these measures it may be necessary or 
advisable to establish a railroad quarantine, as follows : 
"At certain convenient points, which will be the only 
points of egress by rail from the infected district, an in- 
spection service and disinfecting station are to be main- 
tained throughout the epidemic. Here all the baggage 
and freight are to be properly disinfected and all pas- 
sengers are to be examined by the official inspectors ; if 
the latter are from the infected locality, or have not a 
certificate from some recognized health officer as to where 
they have been for the previous days corresponding to the 
incubative period of the disease, they are to be at once 
remanded to the nearest camp of probation, there to 
undergo the necessary detention. Moreover, it may seem 
advisable to prevent any passenger cars going beyond the 
infected district, and to disinfect all freight and baggage 
cars that do so." 

There may also be local or house quarantines established 
by municipal boards of health or other authorities to pre- 
vent not only the family or attendants of the sick from 
mingling with the rest of the community, but also to 
keep injudicious outsiders from spreading the infection 
through unwise visitations. And though such isolation 
may appear at times a hardship to certain individuals, 
and to be unduly severe, one should not forget the great 
cost to all concerned of epidemics once inaugurated, nor 
that it is by such stringent measures that we shall be 
able to eradicate the infectious maladies from our com- 
munities. 



VACCINATION. 385 

The foregoing remarks apply likewise to other prophy- 
lactic measures, such as, for example, vaccination. Within 
the last few years there have been many epidemics of 
smallpox throughout the whole country, the extent and 
spread of which were due to a very general neglect to 
secure the protection afforded by vaccination. To contro- 
vert those who assert that this prophylactic measure is of 
no value, the following statistics are quoted from Me- 
Farland, from Welch and Schamberg, and from Harring- 
ton : Prior to the adoption, April, 1, 1875, of the German 
law requiring vaccination at birth and at the tenth year, the 
annual mortality in Prussia, from 1816 to 1870 was from 
7.32 to 66 per 100,000 of population ; in 1871 it was 243.2, 
and in 1872 it was 262.67, owing to the introduction of 
French prisoners. Since then there has been no epidemic, 
but from 1875 to 1886 the average annual mortality was 
1.91 per 100,000 and the lowest 0.36. On the other hand, 
from 1870 to 1895 over 20,000 have died from smallpox 
in Paris alone, where vaccination is not compulsory. 

In the following table, note that vaccination was com- 
pulsory in the first five cities and not enforced in the other 
four: 

DEATH-RATE FOR SMALLPOX 
(in 100,000 of population 1875-1889). 

Berlin 1.16 

Hamburg 0.74 

Breslau 1.11 

Munich 1.45 

Dresden 1.03 

Paris 26.24 

St. Petersburg 35.82 

Vienna 64.90 

Prague 147.90 

25 



386 QUARANTINE. 

According to Harrington, in the Sheffield epidemic of 
1887-'88, 1.55 per cent, of vaccinated and 9.7 per cent, 
of unvaccinated were attacked, the death-rate among the 
former being 0.7 and among the latter 48 per 1000. 
Among children Bunder ten the rate of attack was 5 and 
101 per 1000 respectively for vaccinated and unvaccinated, 
and the death-rate was 0.09 and 44 per 1000. From the 
statistics of this epidemic we have : 

KATES OF ATTACK PER 1000 PERSONS. 

Persons not vaccinated 94 

Persons once vaccinated 19 

Persons twice vaccinated 3 

DEATH-RATES PER 1000 PERSONS. 

Persons not vaccinated 51 

Persons once vaccinated 1 

Persons twice vaccinated 0.08 

The same authority states that a "successful primary 
vaccination within three days after exposure to existing 
cases of smallpox will prevent the development of the 
disease, and as late as the fifth or sixth day will either 
prevent or modify an attack." So that epidemics, even 
when well under way, can be checked by wholesale vacci- 
nation. 

However, vaccination should be repeated from time to 
time, especially when there is danger of infection. In 
Philadelphia, in 1901-'04, not one of the 3500 smallpox 
patients treated at the Municipal Hospital had been suc- 
cessfully vaccinated, as evidenced by the scar, within four 
years of the attack, and this in spite of the fact that 
about 500,000 persons, or one-third of the city's popula- 
tion, were vaccinated during this epidemic. 



PROTECTION AFFORDED BY VACCINATION. 387 

From the data of this hospital, Welch and Schamberg 
compiled the following : l 

Cases. Deaths. Percentage 
of deaths. 

Vaccinated in infancy, good scare . . . 2335 152 6.5 

" " " fair scare ". . .1105 135 12.21 

" " " poor scars . . . 1524 345 22.64 



Postvaccinal cases 4964 632 12.53 

Un vaccinated 3687 1542 41.82 



Total 8561 2174 25.13 

Again in the same hospital, " during a period of thirty-, 
four years, in which time over 9,000 cases of smallpox 
have been treated, not a physician, nurse, or attendant 
who had been successfully vaccinated or revaccinated prior 
to going on duty, contracted the disease." 

Surely, with modern statistics such as the foregoing at 
hand, it is not necessary to recall the excessively high 
mortalities of the eighteenth century prior to Jenner's 
discovery, amounting to half a million or more annually 
in Europe, to convince intelligent persons of the great 
value of this one method of prophylaxis, and yet legal 
compulsion seems to be necessary to secure its general 
employment. 

In the preceding pages the author has attempted to present briefly the 
principles and the regulations of quarantine as practiced in the United 
States at the present time ; but the reader is referred for further details 
to the extremely interesting and valuable chapter on the subject in 
Rohe's Text-book of Hygiene, by Dr. Wyman, the present Supervising 
Surgeon-General of the Marine-Hospital and Public Health Service. 

1 Acute Contagious Diseases, page 55. 



CHAPTER XII. 

THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGR 

THE waste from dwellings is of three kinds : house- 
sweepings and the ashes from fires ; the waste from 
kitchens, scraps of food, etc., commonly known as garb- 
age ; and sewage, the most important, consisting as it 
does of the solid and liquid excreta of the body, together 
with waste water from wash-tubs, bath-tubs, kitchens, 
laundries, etc. 

Ashes alone have little effect upon the health, except 
that they absorb moisture readily, and if allowed to ac- 
cumulate in a cellar may do much to keep it damp and 
mouldy. For the same reason, if they be mixed with 
refuse vegetable matters, putrefaction is favored and 
noxious emanations given off. The dust from ash heaps 
may also be carried into the house and largely increase 
the solid impurities of the air therein. Consequently, 
ashes should be frequently and regularly removed from 
the premises. 

Kitchen garbage readily decays, and if allowed to re- 
main in the vicinity of the house may pollute both the 
air and soil about it ; but inasmuch as it has some value 
as a food for animals, there is usually no difficulty in 
having it removed by scavengers without expense or delay. 
Care must be had, however, that this is done properly and 
that all receptacles are kept in as cleanly a condition as 
possible. Most large cities now find it safer to collect 
and cremate the garbage at the expense of the munici- 
pality, rather than to allow private individuals to keep 
for its consumption large numbers of animals within or 

388 



SEWAGE. 389 

near the city limits. Even though the former plan be the 
more costly, experience shows that this garbage may and 
should be consumed in properly arranged crematories at 
convenient localities without annoyance to the residents of 
the vicinity, thus saving the expense and time necessary 
for conveying the garbage beyond the municipal limits. 

The kind of waste to which we give the name sewage 
is, however, of more importance to sanitarians, since it is 
always a possible factor in the production of disease, and 
since it presents the most difficulties in respect to its 
removal from dwellings and the ultimate disposal of it. 

In addition to the substances already named and which 
usually come from dwelling-houses, sewage may contain 
the liquid excreta from stables, the refuse from factories 
of all kinds, the drainage from polluted soils, and the 
excess of rain-water not taken up by evaporation or re- 
tained in the soil. Its composition must therefore be 
always complex and variable ; but there will be practi- 
cally always present in it sodium chloride, ammonia, 
carbon monoxide and dioxide, hydrogen and ammonium 
sulphide, fetid and decomposing organic matter, and 
myriads of bacteria. Fresh sewage will not be so offen- 
sive to the senses as that in which putrefaction has 
commenced, nor will the gases arising from it be so dan- 
gerous to health. Frankland has shown that " solid or 
liquid matter is not likely to be scattered into the air from 
the sewage itself by any agitation it is likely to undergo 
until gas begins to be generated in it " ; and it is really 
doubtful whether the air of a properly constructed and 
well-ventilated sewer can be shown to contain a harmful 
excess of injurious gases and organisms. However, it is 
essential that sewage should always be removed from the 
premises of a dwelling as soon as possible after its pro- 
duction and before decomposition begins. 



390 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

When the above-mentioned constituents of sewage are 
to be disposed of collectively, the water-carriage system 
is usually the best. Although the pneumatic system 
(wherein air-tight pipes extend from the dwellings, etc., 
to reservoirs from which the air is periodically exhausted 
and the sewage thus drawn into them) would seem to be 
advantageous where the topographical conditions do not 
permit of natural drainage, it is always subject to the 
danger of breaks occurring and destroying the action, and 
seems to have been practically successful in but few 
instances. 

A modification of the pneumatic system which seems 
to be more successful and practical is the Shone or ejector 
system. In this the sewage is conducted by gravity 
through suitable drains to convenient ejector stations or 
tanks, whence it is forced by means of compressed air to 
the irrigation fields or other places of ultimate disposal. 
The system has been in successful operation in Arad, 
Hungary, since 1896, the plant disposing of the sewage 
of 20,000 persons from five ejector stations at a working 
cost, excluding interest and sinking fund, of about 25s. 
($6.25) per day. 1 

On the other hand, where house refuse only is to be 
considered, and where the waste-water can be kept from 
the other parts of the sewage, or where the water-supply, 
the physical conditions, or the cost of constructing the 
necessary sewers prevent the use of the water-carriage 
method, recourse must be had to the pail or earth-closet 
system. The use of primitive privy-vaults or cesspools 
is most insanitary and dangerous, and should be con- 
demned in almost every instance. Where the necessity 
for one of the latter seems imperative, it should be made 
absolutely water-tight, so that none of the contents may 

1 American Year-book of Medicine for 1900, pp. 549, 550. 



PAIL SYSTEM. 391 

escape to pollute the surrounding so'l and soil-air or to 
contaminate the ground-water in tno neighborhood. 
Moreover, the pits should be properly ventilated and 
should be cleaned out regularly and often, which may be 
done without offence by some form of odorless excavat- 
ing apparatus, such as is now commonly used. 

The daily addition of a solution of chlorinated lime or 
milk of lime or of sulphate of iron, to the extent of about 
two quarts for each person using the cesspool, will do 
much in the way of checking bacterial growth, even 
though it does not actually disinfect the contents, and 
will largely prevent the offensive odors of putrefaction 
from such accumulations. It should be noted that the 
contents of such a vault, or of a simple pit in the earth, 
undergo putrefaction rather than natural decomposition, 
because of the lack of sufficient oxygen supply and of 
the adjunct action of the nitrifying bacteria which are 
found only in the uppermost layers of the soil. 

It is also probable that many disease germs, particularly 
those of diphtheria or typhoid fever, will survive and 
multiply better in the contents of such a vault than in 
sewage or refuse treated by the methods to be hereafter 
described. 

In the pail system the more solid waste matters, and 
especially human excreta, are collected in a suitable pail 
or tub, which, holding only a limited amount, must of 
necessity be removed and emptied regularly and often. 
If the outbuildings used for this purpose be kept clean 
and properly ventilated, such a system will be both 
economical and healthful. 

Advantage may here be taken of the great deodorizing, 
nitrifying, and oxidizing power of fine dry earth, and 
various forms of earth-closets have been devised to be used 
in conjunction with the pail system. If a quantity of dry, 



392 THE REMOVAL ASD DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

sifted earth, in bulk about twice that of the dejecta, is 
thrown upon the latter after using the closet, they will 
be rendered inodorous and inoffensive. For this purpose 
loam and clay are best, though sifted ashes may be used 
with almost as good results, but sand or gravel will not 
be so efficient as the loam or ashes. Moreover, owing 
probably to the action of the nitrifying bacteria in the 
earth, all trace of the peculiar nature of the organic com- 
pound is quickly destroyed, and the mixture soon becomes 
practically nothing but humus, and is an excellent fertilizer. 

Harrington 1 says of peat used for this purpose that it 
" has not only remarkable power of absorption, but also 
very marked bactericidal properties. It will absorb and 
retain from nine to eighteen times its weight of water, it 
acts as a deodorant in the same manner as charcoal, and 
it retains ammonia in apparently unchanged condition. 
Experiment has shown that neither the typhoid nor chol- 
era organisms can retain their vitality in contact with 
peat longer than a very few hours, and the same is true 
of many other varieties of bacteria." 

The pail or earth-closet must, of course, be separate 
and apart from the dwelling, as it is impossible to have 
the same means of keeping the gaseous emanations and 
effluvia out of the house as with the water-carriage 
system ; and it is also important that the liquid house- 
slops, wash-water, etc., be kept separate from the fecal 
waste, which should be kept as dry as possible to lessen 
putrefaction and to increase its possible value as a fer- 
tilizer. Nor should this liquid waste be allowed to soak 
into and pollute the soil about the house. It should 
be collected in a water-tight reservoir, whence it can be 
removed at frequent intervals, or, better yet, carried by 
suitable drains to a kitchen garden or other land at a 
Practical Hygiene, p. 470. 



SEWAGE-PLUMBING AND HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 393 

proper distance from the house, and be there disposed of 
by irrigation or sub-irrigation. 

As one can readily see, this pail system is especially 
well adapted to isolated houses and small communities, 
where each householder can take care that the necessary 
details are properly attended to, and where, as is likely, 
there is not a general water-supply, or where the expense 
of constructing the necessary sewers would be too great. 

But even in cities as large as Manchester, England, 
" where four-fifths of the people are obliged to have 
earth-closets," the system is said to have proved entirely 
advantageous and practicable. 

Where there is a common and general supply of water 
throughout the house or to a number of houses there must 
be some provision for carrying off the waste-water, and 
as this latter will have probably become polluted in its 
use, it will be advantageous to utilize it to remove the 
other sewage. In fact, where the conditions are favorable 
the water-carriage system will usually be found the best 
of all, because it is more nearly automatic and depends 
least on human interference and efficiency. 

The necessary apparatus comprises, on the one hand, 
that which belongs to the building and its premises, viz. : 
the house fixtures, pipes, and drains ; and, on the other, 
the common or public sewers which receive the sewage 
from the house-drains and convey it to its place of ulti- 
mate disposal. 

Sewage-plumbing and House -drainage. 

The essence of any good system for the removal of 
sewage from a dwelling or building is simplicity. There- 
fore, inasmuch as it has been stated that sewage should 
always be removed from the premises as soon as possible 
after its production and before fermentation or putrefac- 



394 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

tion begins in it, it is evident that in such a system we 
should have for our object and provide for: " 1. The 
speediest possible removal from the house to the public 
sewer of excretal and other refuse by means of water. 2. 
The prevention of the deposit of foul matter in any part 
of the drainage system and of percolation into the soil of 
polluting liquids. 3. The establishment of a current of 
air through every part of the soil-drains and -pipes, in 
order to disperse any foul gases that may form and to 
allow them to escape with safety into the open air. 4. 
The prevention of any entry of air from soil-pipes, drains, 
and waste-pipes into the house. 5. The exclusion of the 
air of the common sewer from the house-drains and the 
house ; the last being, perhaps, the most important, as 
the air of the public sewer may at any time contain the 
active germs of specific disease." ' 

The attainment of the above requirements is to be 
secured in the manner to be described. The soil-pipe is 
that which receives the sewage from water-closets and,, 
usually, from the waste-pipes of other fixtures, such as 
bath-tubs, wash-stands, sinks, etc., and which connects 
them with the house-drain; the latter is the conduit 
connecting the soil-pipe with the sewer. Waste-pipes 
convey the contents of wash-stands and other fixtures to 
the soil-pipes or to a branch of the house-drain. (See 
Fig. 67.) 

The soil-pipe is usually located almost entirely within 
the house, although, were it not for the danger of its con- 
tents freezing, it would be better to have it fastened to 
the wall outside. It is made of cast or Wrought iron, 
should be at least four inches in diameter, should convey 
the sewage as directly as possible from the fixtures to the 
house-drain, and must extend unobstructed from the latter 
1 L. C. Parkes, Hygiene and Public Health, 2d edition, p. 139. 



SOIL-PIPE. 



395 



to several feet above the roof, ending where winds and 
currents from high walls and chimneys will not interfere 
with its free ventilation. Every branch of the soil-pipe 



FIG. 67. 







Illustrating sewage-plumbing of a house. The traps of the rain-leaders at 
their junctions with the house-drain have been accidentally omitted. 



more than eight feet in length, or to which two or more 
water-closets are connected, should also be extended above 



396 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

the roof, or else be extended and connected to the main 
soil-pipe above the highest fixture connected therewith, 
as there must be no closed ends wherein foul or stagnant 
air may collect. All joints must be absolutely air-tight, 
and the pipe must be so secured that any vibration or 
settling of the building will not be likely to destroy its 
continuity. In new buildings, especially, all soil-pipes 
should be exposed or else covered in with panels easily 
removable at any time to permit of inspection or repairs. 
Any hidden pipes or those difficult of access should be 
of extra heavy materials, and extra care should be given 
to the joints and supports. The soil-pipe and house-drain 
should both be as smooth as possible interiorly, and in the 
construction they must be carefully inspected to prevent 
any of the material used in caulking or cementing the 
joints from projecting within to prevent the free flow 
of sewage. 

Outside of the house the house-drain may be of iron or 
of glazed and impervious earthenware, but no earthen pipe 
should be permitted within five feet of a foundation wall, 
and where any part of the house-drain is within the build- 
ing it should be of iron and securely fastened to the 
foundation-wall above the cellar floor. The connection 
between it and any soil-pipe should be by means of a 
rounded elbow, and not by an abrupt right angle. (Fig. 
68). The house-drain should not be less than four nor 
more than ten inches in diameter, should be laid on a 
firm foundation, should have air-tight joints, and should 
have a slope toward the sewer of at least one-half inch to 
the foot. 

If a house-drain empty into a sewer of the " combined " 
system, there must be a trap just before its junction with 
the sewer to prevent the passage of sewer-air back into 
the house (Fig. 69), and there must also be an opening for 



HOUSE-DRAIN. 



397 



fresh air between this trap and the house-drain, so that 
there may be a constant current of air through the house- 



FIG. 68. 




Method of connecting soil-pipe with house-drain. 

drain and soil-pipes to the exit above the roof, and the 
air in the soil-pipes thus kept from becoming foul and 

FIG. 69. 




Main trap to be placed between sewer and cesspool, or between house-drain 
and main sewer. (NOTTER and FIRTH.) 

stagnant. But if the house-drain empties into a sewer 
of the " separate " system, there need be no trap between 
the drain and sewer, for reasons to be hereafter stated; 
however the fresh-air inlet between sewer and house-drain 
is always advisable, as it tends further to assist ventilation. 



398 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

A house-drain should not empty into a cesspool unless 
it is absolutely necessary, and in such case the cesspool 
must be well ventilated and also separated from the drain 
by a fresh-air inlet and trap, just as when the drain emp- 
ties into a combined sewer. Nor should any cesspool 
empty into a sewer. 

Where rain-water conductors empty into house-drains 
or sewers, they should be separated from the latter by 
traps having a seal of not less than five inches, to prevent 
sewer-air passing up through them to the vicinity of win- 
dows, etc. So, also, all waste-pipes, gutters, and other 
pipes opening into house-drains should be trapped. 

In the house all water-closets and other fixtures should 
be as near the soil-pipe as possible that there may be no 
long stretches of foul waste-pipe underneath the floors, 
and all connections with the soil-pipe should be made at 
an acute angle that the discharge into the latter may not 
interfere with its free ventilation. Each fixture must be 
separately trapped, and the trap must be located as near its 
fixture as possible. There must be no connection between 
a fixture and the soil-pipe or house-drain which is not 
trapped. 

A little reflection will show that by observing the above 
rules of construction provision will have been made for 
each of the five specified requirements of the system, and 
the air in the soil-pipes will be almost as pure as that of 
the house itself. The absorption of foul gases by the 
water in the house-traps and their subsequent dispersion 
into the atmosphere of the house will also be almost 
impossible. But there must always be free communica- 

1 The " septic tank " hereafter described must not be confused with the 
cess-pool mentioned here, as it is permissible to connect the house-drain 
directly to a properly constructed septic tank, for reasons that are made 
apparent in the description of \he latter. 



TRAPS FOR SEWER-GAS. 



399 



tion between the air inlet into the house-drain and the 
outlets from and at the top of the soil-pipes ; otherwise 
the air in the soil-pipe cannot be changed and foul gases 
will accumulate which, by their pressure, would tend to 
force themselves into the house whenever an opportunity 
occurred, and might even overcome the seal of some of 
the traps. 

Traps are "appliances placed between house conve- 
niences (fixtures) and soil-pipes and drains or sewers, to 
prevent sewer-gas gaining an entrance into the house." 
Most traps are too complicated. The- simpler a trap the 



FIG. 70. 



FIG. 71. 





These illustrations show how a uniform calibre prevents the accumulation 
of dirt in a trap, and how angles and corners favor such accumulations. 
(GERHARD.) 

better, provided it have sufficient seal. The seal of a 
trap is the depth of water or the mechanical appliance 
which prevents the back-flow of gas. Mechanical appli- 
ances are liable to become clogged and not to fit tightly, 
thus allowing the passage of sewer-air ; they also tend to 
check the free onward flow of the sewage, thus favoring 
deposition in and preventing the cleansing of the trap. 
The S or siphon trap is as simple as any, is of uniform 
diameter throughout, has no corners or projections to 
catch dirt, and is thoroughly cleansed by each fair flow 
of water through it. The value of a trap does not depend 



400 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 



so much on the amount of water it contains as on the 
depth or strength of the seal. On account of evaporation 
the water-seal of. a trap may become lessened or de- 
stroyed unless the fixture to which it is attached be in 



FIG. 72. 



FIG. 73. 





S or siphon trap, with opening for 
ventilation-pipe. (GERHARD.) 



Bell trap. (GERHARD.) 



frequent use ; it is therefore advisable to have as few 
fixtures of any kind in the house as the comfort or con- 
venience of the inmates will allow. So, also, if a house 
is to be unoccupied for a time, it is well to cover the 
water in the traps with oil or glycerin to prevent evapo- 



FIG. 74. 



FIG. 75. 





Cudell's trap. (GERHARD.) Bower's trap. (GERHARD.) 

ration of the former. Leakage or capillary action, the 
latter caused by accumulations of hair, thread, etc. in the 
trap, may likewise lower the water so that sewer-gas may 
pass through from the soil- 




ANTI-SIPHONINO ATTACHMENT. 



401 



Lastly, the seal of a trap may be broken by siphonage, 
either by a strong rush of water through it from its own 
fixture, or by a rush down the soil-pipe from a fixture 
higher up, and this is especially liable to occur if the trap 
be some distance from the soil-pipe, or if the fixtures above 
discharge a large amount of water at once. To prevent 
this, openings are sometimes made at the top of the traps 
on the side next the waste-pipe or soil-pipe and con- 
nected with vent-pipes, which should open into the soil- 

Fio. 76. 




Grease trap. (HARRINGTON.) 

pipe above the entrance of the waste-pipe from the highest 
fixture, or be continued separately into the out-door air. 
(See Fig. 67.) But this greatly increases the expense, and, 
as the vent-pipes, to be efficient, must be almost two inches 
in diameter, they also favor evaporation from the trap. 
If the trap is properly constructed, if the soil-pipe is of 
suitable size and height, and if the fixtures be placed 
as near the soil-pipe as possible, there will be but little 
26 



402 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

danger of siphonage occurring. Where it does occur, 
McClellan's anti-siphon attachment (Fig. 77) is said to 
work advantageously, being inexpensive and permitting 
a free ingress of air to the trap, but no egress of air from 
the soil-pipe into the house. In this device a small 
weighted and inverted cup rests with its edge immersed 
in a ring of mercury, from which it is raised by the 

Fio. 77. 




McClellan's anti-siphon attachment. Sectional view of vent with cup lifted 
out of the mercury by the inflowing current of air, indicated by the arrows. 

(ROHfe.) 

atmospheric pressure only when the siphonage sufficiently 
reduces the pressure within the pipes. The mercury and 
the weight of the cup make a seal sufficient to prevent 
any outflow of gas. It is also said that if the waste- 
pipe be connected with the soil-pipe by a divergent open- 
ing, siphonage will be less likely to occur. 

All waste-pipes, soil-pipes, and house-drains should be 



TESTING OF PIPES AND DRAINS. 



403 



tested before use by closing all openings and forcing in 
air to a pressure of at least thirty pounds to the square 




inch. Leaks may be detected by plugging the lower 
openings and filling the pipes with water, or by pouring 



404 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

an ounce of oil of peppermint into the highest fixture and 
quickly following this with several gallons of hot water, 
the heat volatilizing the oil, whose odor escapes at every 
opening in the pipes unprotected by a trap or water-seal. 
The heat imparted by the hot water will also help to trace 
out hidden soil-pipes. 

All fixtures should be exposed to the free ventilation 
of air underneath and about them, and water-closets and 
Wash-stands should not be closed in with carpentry work. 
(See Fig. 79.) Traps should also, if possible, be where 

FIG. 79. 




Wash-basin with overflow horn discharging beneath plug. (HARRINGTON.) 

they may be opened and inspected at any time. Under 
each closed-in fixture, if there must be such, there should 
be a drip-safe to catch any leakage or overflow of water, 
but the pipes, if any, leading from these should never 
empty into waste-pipes or soil-pipes ; they should lead 
preferably into the open air and not to . the cellar, as the 
cellar-air, which is usually impure, thus gains access to the 
house. Even if these drip-safe pipes are trapped and open 
into the soil-pipe, the water in the trap is replenished so 
rarely that evaporation soon destroys the seal and allows 
the air to pass from the soil-pipe into the house. 



WATER-CLOSETS. 



405 



The overflow-pipe of old-fashioned wash-stands and 
bath-tubs is objectionable, as it collects dirt of all kinds, 
soap, epithelium, etc., and it is almost impossible to clean 
it. Beside, it will often be found opening into the waste- 
pipe below the trap, thus allowing the free passage of 
sewer-air into the room. When new fixtures are being 

FIG. 80. 




Improved stand-pipe overflow. (HARRINGTON.) 

put in they should preferably be such as make use of the 
stand-pipe principle in the stoppers and that have no 
separate or concealed overflow-pipe or outlet. 

Water-closets. The requisites for a good water-closet 
are : that it does not allow the escape of sewer-air from 
the soil-pipes into the house ; that it is thoroughly and 
easily cleaned each time after use ; that there are no 



406 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

hidden parts in which filth can collect, or which cannot 
be readily cleaned ; that the flushing or washing out of 
the closet be done in such a way that dirt or spray be not 
thrown into the air of the room ; that there be sufficient 
water-supply to wash out the bowl and trap each time and 
to refill them to the proper level ; that the trap itself is not 
siphoned or left empty by a discharge of water from this 
or another fixture. 

FIG. 81. 




Pan closet. (GERHARD.) 

Of the different kinds of water-closets the pan and the 
valve closets are the oldest and the worst, and should not 
be used. They consist of a receiving bowl, the bottom of 
which opens into a swinging pan or is closed by a valve. 
The pan or valve and the lower part of the receiving bowl 
are enclosed in another bowl, the container, connected 
with the soil-pipe and trap. The depth of water in the 
receiving bowl in pan closets is regulated by the depth of 
the pan, and in valve closets by the location of an overflow 
outlet. In both kinds the contents of the receiving bowl 
are discharged into the container by the tipping of the 



PLUFGER CLOSETS. 



407 



pan or valve, and consequently the sides of the con- 
tainer, as well as the under side of the pan or valve, soon 
become thickly coated with filth. This, being hidden, 
accumulates, decomposes, and contaminates the air in the 
container, which air is of necessity discharged into the 
room as often as it is displaced by the contents of the 
receiving bowl. In vaive closets the overflow-pipe from 
the receiver furnishes an additional way by which the 
foul air may pass from the container into the atmosphere 




Valve closet. (GERHARD.) 

of the room. It needs no argument to show that these 
closets are decidedly dangerous to health. 

Plug or plunger closets are those in which the outlet 
above the trap is stoppered by a plunger, this being usu- 
ally in a chamber at the side of the receiving bowl. The 
bowl and side chamber holding a considerable quantity of 
water, the trap is well flushed out each time of use ; but 
the side chamber and plunger, being hidden and not easily 
cleaned, soon become coated with filth and dangerous to 



408 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

health, as there is nothing to prevent the air from passing 
from this chamber into the room. Moreover, the plug 

FIG. 83. 




' Plug or plunger closet. (GERHARD.) 

may not close the opening completely, thus allowing a 
continual waste of water. A trapped overflow-pipe in 
the plunger keeps the closet from overflowing. 



FIG. 84. 




Short-hopper closet. (GERHARD.) 

Hopper closets consist simply of a bowl connected below 
with an ordinary trap, and, as there is nothing to get out 



WASH-OUT AND SIPHON CLOSETS. 



409 



of order, this kind is theoretically one of the best. The 
objection to long hoppers is that dirt is apt to stick to the 
sides and become offensive, but this can be prevented if it 
is so arranged that water begins to flow down the sides as 
soon as the closet is put to use, thus preventing adhesion. 
Short hoppers have not this objection, as the feces fall 
directly into the water in the bowl and are carried out 
through the trap as the bowl is flushed. All water-closets 
should have a flushing rim encircling the top, so that all 
sides of the bowel may be washed down and cleansed each 
time the closet is used. 



FIG. 85. 



FIG. 86. 




Wash-out water-closet. (PARKES.) Dcceco siphon closet. (PARKES.) 

Wash-out closets retain considerable water in the bowl, 
and are emptied by a strong flush of water from the flush- 
ing rim. They are simple, do not readily get out of order, 
and are much in favor at the present time. As they are 
a modification of the short-hopper closet, so is the siphon 
closet a modification of the wash-out variety. 

In the siphon closet the contents of the bowl and trap 
are lifted out by siphonic action, and then the bowl and 
trap are refilled, as in the case of wash-out closets, by an 
after-flush. In the Dececo closet a siphon closet use 
is made of the principle involved in the Field flush-tank, 



410 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

Hopper, wash-out, and siphon closets should be sup- 
plied from water-closet cisterns, which should give a cer- 



FIG. 87. 




Sanitas siphon closet. (HARRINGTON.) 

tain and sufficient volume of water with only a short pull 
on the chain or pressure on the rod or knob. The bowl 
and trap should also be automatically refilled from the 
cistern after use. 

Water-closets should not be connected directly \vith the 
water-supply pipes of the house, as air from the closets 
may be sucked into them at times when the water-supply 
is cut off, and the water afterward contaminated by it. 
But this is difficult to avoid in pan, valve, or plug closets, 
and is another serious objection to their use. 

Vent-pipes from the bowl and seat of water-closets 
must be large, and must not open into the soil-pipe, but 
into the open-air ; they must not open near a window nor 
any place from which air is taken into the house, but may 
open into a flue which is constantly heated, as a kitchen 
chimney, or may themselves be heated and have a current 
maintained in them by a small lamp or gas-jet. In this 
way the room in which a water-closet is located may be 
effectively ventilated. 

Water-closets should never be placed in dark closets, 



SEWERS. 411 

nor in bed-rooms or living-rooms, but should always be 
in separate rooms that have free communication with the 
open air by means of a large window or by a ventilating 
shaft of at least four square feet sectional area throughout 
its length. It is also advisable that bed-rooms should 
not communicate directly with bath-rooms, etc., con- 
taining water-closets, unless there is every assurance that 
the closet and plumbing connected with it are first-class 
in every particular. 

It will not be out of place to suggest in this connection 
that apparatus for household conveniences, such as wash- 
stands, bath-tubs, water-closets, kitchen sinks, etc., which 
satisfies every practical sanitary requirement can now be 
had at prices that are quite reasonable when the necessary 
care and scientific experience in construction are taken 
into consideration. The advance has been in the reduc- 
ing of the number of parts in an article, some being now 
made in a single piece, thus lessening or eliminating the 
crevices that would collect and hold dangerous filth ; 
likewise concealed overflow pipes and corners and de- 
pressions difficult to clean have been done away with; 
and a third gain has been in the substitution of solid 
vitrified or enameled metal ware for articles that were 
made of comparatively soft substance and with a glazed 
surface that was liable to crack and thus permit the 
absorption of foul matters and possibly harmful organ- 
isms. That these advantages have also been accom- 
panied by an advance in aesthetic appearances is well 
demonstrated by the illustration on page 403, or by 
what may be seen iii almost any well-equipped modern 
dwelling. 

Sewers. These are the conduits provided to receive 
and convey the contents of house-drains and other 



412 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

drains to the place of final disposal or discharge. They 
may be of either of two kinds combined or separate. 
Sewers of the first class, 'which have heretofore been 
most commonly used in this country, are constructed to 
carry off all kinds of sewage, the waste liquids, etc. from 
factories, street-washings, and the surplus rain-water of 

FIG. 88. 




Section of ovoid sewer of " combined " system. 

the district drained by them. As this necessitates a size 
and capacity sufficient to receive the greatest probable 
rainfall upon the area drained in addition to the other 
sewage, it is evident that the depth of the usual daily vol- 
ume of the latter in the sewer will be so shallow and the 
current so sluggish as greatly to favor the settling of the 



SEWERS OF THE SEPARATE SYSTEM. 413 

solid and semisolid constituents, the obstruction of the 
sewers, and the development of bacteria and sewer-gas. 
To obviate these faults and to insure a more rapid flow by 
keeping the depth of sewage as great as possible, the 
smaller conduits at least are generally made ovoid in sec- 
tion, the smaller end, of course, being downward. Com- 
bined sewers are not only more expensive to construct and 
to keep in repair than those of the separate system, but 
greater care must be had to see that they are at all times 
properly ventilated. The main advantage claimed for 
them is that the expense of constructing separate conduits 
for factory wastes, street- washings, and the excess of rain- 
water is avoided ; but this is a doubtful one both in respect 
to economy and sanitation. 

The ventilation of sewers of this kind is usually suffi- 
ciently provided for by the inlets for street- wash ings and 
rain-water, located at street-corners, etc. ; but if these are 
not close enough together to keep the sewer atmosphere 
constantly changing and reasonably pure, other ventila- 
tion openings should be made. But in all cases the air 
from sewers of the combined system must be excluded 
from house-drains, etc., by the traps which have been 
described. 

Only the sewage proper from dwellings, and occasionally 
from small factories, is admitted to the sewers of the 
separate system, the rain-waters, surface-waters, and soil- 
waters being removed by other drains or channels. 
The advantages of this system, which is now indorsed 
by almost all sanitarians, are that the volume of sewage 
to be carried is comparatively small and constant, and that 
it can be calculated very approximately from the daily 
water-supply and population ; that the cost of construc- 
tion is much less than that of sewers of the combined 



414 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

system, and that, while it is available and satisfactory 
for large cities, it is the-only one that small communities 
would consider or can afford; that the sewage is more 
concentrated and uniform in composition, and can thus 
be better utilized as a fertilizer or disposed of in whatever 
manner may be most sanitary and advantageous ; that the 
sewers, having smaller peripheries and smoother walls, are 
more frequently and effectually flushed, and that they are 
more completely ventilated and altogether better suited to 
the work to be performed. The disadvantages of sewers 

FIG. 89, 




Field's annular siphon flush-tank. 



of this class are that a community must have two sets of 
drains, one for sewage and the other for rain, street, and 
factory waters, and that after a protracted dry season the 
street-washings, etc., may be very foul ; but these are out- 
weighed by the advantages above mentioned. 

"No sewer of this system should be more than six 
inches in diameter until it and its branches have accumu- 
lated a sufficient flow at the hour of greatest use to fill 
this size half-full, because the use of a larger size is waste- 
ful and because ventilation becomes less complete as the 



FOUNDATION OF SEWERS. 415 

size increases. The size should be increased gradually 
and only so rapidly as is necessary by the filling of the 
sewer half-full at the hour of greatest flow; and the 
upper end of each branch sewer should be provided with 
an automatic flush-tank (Fig. 89) of sufficient capacity to 
secure the thorough daily cleansing of so much of the 
conduit as from the limited flow is liable to deposit solid 
matters by the way." 

There should ordinarily be no traps between house- 
drains and sewers of the separate system, since, having 
no rain-water inlets, the latter would otherwise, have no 
openings for ventilation. Moreover, since the "separate" 
sewers are so regularly and thoroughly flushed, the air in 
them is not likely to be so impure, and there is not the 
same reason for excluding it from the house-drains, etc., 
as there is regarding the air from "combined" sewers. 
The junction of house-drains with sewers of the separate 
system should be by divergent openings, so that the air 
may pass freely into the drain as the sewage empties into 
the sewer. 

Should one desire, however, to separate his house-drain 
from the public sewer by means of a trap, and thus pre- 
vent the ingress of sewer-air into his premises, the venti- 
lation of the sewer can be secured by providing a vent- 
pipe between the trap and the sewer. But in no case 
must the inlet-pipe for air on the other side of the trap, 
between it and the house, be omitted ; nor should the two 
air-pipes be so near together that air from the former will 
be likely to be drawn into the latter. 

All sewers should be laid on a good foundation with 
sufficient fall to give at least a velocity of two feet per 
second to the flow. If made of brick, they should be 
laid in a mortar made of cement and sharp sand, and all 



416 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

sewers should be as smooth as possible inside to prevent 
the arrest of particles of sewage. Sewers of the com- 
bined system should not be pervious to the soil-water, as 
the liquid sewage is just as apt to pass from them to the 
soil and to pollute it dangerously as the soil-water is to 
pass into the sewers. But the rain-water drains of the 
separate system may also be employed to drain the subsoil. 

The ultimate disposal of sewage is a matter of con- 
siderable importance which commonly does not receive 
the attention it deserves. The usual method in this coun- 
try of discharging the sewage into a running stream is 
reprehensible, because the natural purification of a water 
thus contaminated must always be slow and more or less 
uncertain, and because the risk to those using the polluted 
water must be a constantly increasing one. Where the 
district drained and supplied by the stream is a sparsely 
settled one, and where the volume of fresh or running 
water is very large in proportion to the quantity of pol- 
lution it receives, the objections to the disposal of sewage 
in this way may seem to be theoretical rather than prac- 
tical ; but as the population increases and the ratio of pure 
water to filth decreases beyond certain limits, the question 
becomes more serious and pertinent. It is said that to dilute 
safely the sewage of 1000 persons requires from two to 
four million gallons of unpolluted water per day; this, of 
course, not destroying the disease germs nor eliminating 
the danger of their multiplication. 

Other methods of sewage disposal resemble closely 
those already described for the purification of water, in 
that they make use of subsidence, chemical treatment, 
and filtration. The sewage may be collected in large 
tanks, with or without the addition of certain chemicals, 
such as lime, alum, or sulphate of iron, to increase the 



THE ULTIMATE DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 417 

precipitation, and the suspended impurities allowed to 
settle to the bottom of the tanks, whence they can be 
removed, squeezed partially dry in hydraulic presses, and 
either disposed of as a fertilizer or cremated. The clear 
effluent or liquid part of the sewage may be allowed to 
flow at once from the settling tanks into a convenient 
watercourse, provided it is there well diluted, or it may 
better be filtered through an area of porous soil or through 
prepared filter-beds. If the filtration is properly done, the 
filtrate will contain nothing harmful, and may be allowed 
to flow where it will without danger. A properly pre- 
pared filter-bed of twelve inches of sand upon eighteen 
inches of gravel or magnetic carbide of iron, with an area 
of one acre, is said to be able to purify from one to two 
million gallons of clarified effluent sewage in twenty- 
four hours. 

Chemical treatment will probably cost from thirty-five 
to fifty cents or more per annum per individual of the 
population supplying the sewage, but an even more 
important question than cost is whether the addition of 
the chemicals may not interfere with the natural biologic 
processes of purification constantly taking place in most 
sewage. Chemicals that are or have been used as pre- 
cipitants are lime, lime with sulphate of iron, alum, or 
alkali waste, sulphate of iron alone, and a combination of 
alum, charcoal, and clay. The precipitate obtained with 
the latter makes a superior fertilizer. 

Sewage may also be disposed of by intermittent down- 
ward filtration, either through specially constructed filter- 
beds or a prepared area of soil ; by irrigation or sub- 
irrigation, and by the so-called septic-tank method. 

For sewage, intermittent filtration is superior to the 
continuous process in fact, is almost essential, as the 

27 



418 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

interruption in the percolation permits a renewal of the 
air-supply in the filtering medium or soil, and thus fur- 
nishes a sufficient quota of oxygen for the oxidation and 
nitrification of the excessive amount of organic matter in 
the sewage. With sufficiently frequent intermittence, fine 
sand, such as is used for building purposes, makes an 
excellent artificial filter, capable, it is stated, of purifying 
50,000 gallons of crude sewage per acre per day and of 
removing all the solids, much of the dissolved matters, and 
99 per cent, of the contained bacteria. Where the crude 
sewage is allowed to settle or is treated biologically in the 
septic tanks, a much greater quantity of the clarified 
effluent can be filtered daily, as has been indicated. 

By intermittent soil filtration we mean "the concentra- 
tion of sewage at short intervals, on an area of specially 
chosen porous ground, as small as will absorb and cleanse 
it ; not excluding vegetation, but making the produce of 
secondary importance. The intermittency of application 
is a sine qua non even in suitably constituted soils where- 
ever complete success is aimed at." l The land should be 
levelled and under-drained with tile drains at the depth of 
five or six feet, and should be divided into four parts, no 
part to receive sewage for more than six hours. An acre 
of properly prepared soil will thus dispose of the crude 
sewage of 1000 to 2000, or the clarified sewage of 5000 
people. 

The soil to be used for this purpose, as well as that for 
irrigation and sub-irrigation, should be porous and loamy ; 
if clay, it should be well broken up and mixed with ashes ; 
sand does not purify sewage well, especially at first, in 
these methods. The sewage impurities are removed partly 
by mechanical filtration, but especially by oxidation, the 

1 Metropolitan Sewage Commission ; see Notter and Firth, p. 546. 



IRRIGATION. 419 

latter being due partly to the air in the interstices of the 
soil, but chiefly to the saprophytic bacteria, which rapidly 
convert the organic impurities into ammonia, nitrates, 
nitrites, and other simple compounds. 

Irrigation means " the distribution of sewage .over a 
large surface of ordinary agricultural ground, having in 
view a maximum growth of vegetation, consistently with 
due purification, for the amount of sewage supplied." l 
Sub-irrigation is a modification of this, the sewage being 
delivered through porous drains a few inches beneath the 
surface of the soil. Unless very porous, the land should 
be under-drained ; it should also be levelled to prevent the 
sewage flowing off the surface too rapidly. The under- 
drains need not be nearly so close together, however, as in 
the intermittent filtration system. The crops raised on 
irrigation farms are healthful in every respect, and there 
can be no reasonable objection to their use as food ; there 
would be decided objection, however, to sprinkling the 
vegetables with sewage water. 

For example, an epidemic of typhoid fever in Prague 
in 1903 was traced to the use of radishes which had been 
placed in polluted river water in order to freshen them 
and improve their appearance for marketing. It is ac- 
cordingly probable that many cases of this disease of ob- 
scure origin may arise in a similar way, since it is by no 
means uncommon for the " truck " gardeners in the neigh- 
borhood of cities to use the contents of privy vaults 
etc., as fertilizer, and Rullman has shown that typhoid 
bacilli may live for six months or even a year in human, 
and more especially in organic, filth. Thus celery, banked 
for bleaching with such a soil, might readily become a 
carrier of the harmful germs. On the other hand, it is. 

1 Metropolitan Sewage Commission ; see Notter and Firth, p. 547. 



420 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

not likely that the latter are carried to, and taken up by, 
the rootlets of the plants growing on the sewage farms, 
for the records of the latter thus far tend to disprove this. 

On the large irrigation farms of the city of Berlin 
which has a population of about two million, the cost 
of sewage disposal is about covered by the returns 
from the crops raised upon them. The mortality of 
those employed upon them is very low, and there seems 
to be no particular tendency to illness that can be at- 
tributed to the sewage. It is even said that the employes 
use with impunity the clear water in the effluent canals 
for drinking and other purposes. Paris has also adopted 
the irrigation method, and hereafter the sewage of the 
entire city will be treated in this way. The sewage of 
from 100 to 150 persons per acre may be satisfactorily 
disposed of by irrigation, Berlin's rate, with an especially 
favorable soil, being 142 per acre. It is to be especially 
recommended for isolated houses, for small communities, 
or for charitable or other State institutions. 

The septic tank system for the disposal of sewage par- 
ticularly aims to take advantage of the biologic and 
saprophytic action occurring naturally in all polluted 
waters. The idea is to favor and not to hinder the purify- 
ing bacteria and other agencies by placing the sewage 
under the conditions most favorable to their growth and 
action, thus facilitating the conversion of organic matters, 
both solid and dissolved, into substances entirely harmless 
and unobjectionable. In other words, advantage is to be 
taken of the action of both the anaerobic and aerobic 
saprophytes which abound in all sewage that is not too 
strongly impregnated with antiseptic chemical wastes 
from factories or other sources. In the intermittent 
filtration and irrigation methods of sewage disposal the 






THE SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM. 421 

service of the anaerobic organisms is practically eliminated 
because the success of these methods depends largely upon 
a free and frequent aeration of the filtering material or 
the soil. On the other hand, the purpose of the septic 
tank is first to make use of the disintegrating action of 
the anaerobic bacteria upon the undissolved organic matter 
before subjecting the sewage to the action of the aerobic 
bacteria which it contains. 

The septic tank for large volumes of sewage should be 
long and comparatively shallow, but should have such a 
capacity and cross-section that the sewage will pass 
through at the average rate of about one-half inch per 
minute, and be almost, if not quite twenty-four hours, in 
traversing the tank. At the upper end the fresh sewage 
should enter within a few inches of the bottom of the 
settling or " grit chamber," which is separated by a par- 
tition from the rest of the tank, and in which most of the 
street sand and other inorganic solids are collected. 
Thence it goes into the larger space, where the anaerobic 
bacteria carry on their work. 

The tank may be entirely covered in to exclude air 
and light, for though a thick scum or cake of sludge soon 
forms on top that would serve this purpose, there is some 
possibility of it being broken and air admitted by ice, 
snow, and other causes. However, experience has seemed 
to show that some tanks without other covering than the 
sludge have seemed to work fairly well and to give an 
effluent as good as that from tanks that were covered. 

As the sewage passes slowly through the long tank the 
organic matter is decomposed with the evolution of consider- 
able gas that may be collected and used for heating or light- 
ing purposes, if the tank and volume of sewage are large 
enough to warrant it. In a certain tank about 65 feet long 



422 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

through which the sewage flowed at a depth of from 7 to 
7f feet, and at a daily rate of 54,000 gallons throughout the 
year, it was found that of the 10 grains of mineral and 14.5 
grains of organic matter per gallon entering the tank, 
only 3 grains of mineral and 1.5 grains of organic matter 
per gallon remained in the sludge, the effluent being 
quite clear. In other words, after 13 or 14 months, 
the total solid residue exclusive of moisture from over 
20,000,000 gallons of sewage was only 5^ tons, although 
approximately 31^ tons had entered the tank in that time. 
This represents a reduction of more than 80 per cent, of 
the total solid matter. Moreover, if this amount of 
sewage had been treated with chemicals, the sludge or 
residue would have been about 45 tons. 

The outlet from the tank is by a perforated or slotted 
pipe, located about 2 feet below the sewage surface to 
exclude light and air, which may carry the effluent into a 
shallow aerating trough over the sides of which the fluid 
flows in thin sheets and is then led to the aerobic or fil- 
tering beds, every opportunity being given for it to take 
up plenty of air. These beds are filled with porous 
materials, such as cinders or coke, etc., from ^ to ^ inch 
in size, the idea being that there should be as much 
capacity for the sewage as possible, and at the same time 
a ready aeration of the mass when the bed is drained, the 
beds becoming more efficient after being used some time, 
as they have thus become impregnated with the right kinds 
of bacteria. After filling, the beds are left undisturbed for 
a couple of hours, and are then drained, after which they 
remain empty for another two hours, it having been found 
possible by using automatic filling and emptying valves 
to repeat the process four times daily. It will usually be 
wise to carry the effluent from the septic tank through at 



FILTRATION OR EFFLUENT. 423 

least two of these beds, but if the process is properly ac- 
complished, " by this purification an effluent is obtained 
which is saturated with dissolved oxygen, which remains 
entirely inoffensive in smell for an indefinite period in an 
incubator at summer heat, and which therefore when dis- 
charged into a water-course would maintain the respira- 
tion of fish, and would never render the water offensive." ' 

For private suburban or country dwellings, the Illinois 
State Board of Health have recommended the small septic 
tank illustrated in Figs. 90 and 91, for which the follow- 
ing description is given. 2 

The plans shown here are for a tank suited to the uses 
of the ordinary household of from five to ten persons, and, 
with a fair amount of intelligent attention, it will ac- 
complish its purpose excellently, removing from the rural 
or suburban home a factor which is gradually becoming 
a distinct menace to the public health. 

This plant consists of two tanks, the first the septic 
tank proper, the second, a discharging tank. The septic 
tank is, in construction, practically a cistern 4 feet in 
diameter and about 3 feet deep. The sewage from the 
house enters this tank through a lightly trapped pipe, the 
flow from the ordinary household preventing the back-flow 
of air. Across the center of the tank is a wall which 
divides it into two chambers of equal size. The height 
of this wall is exactly to the point of outflow. 

The sewage from the house enters the first chamber of 
the septic tank with considerable force, causing some dis- 
turbance of the contents. The flow over the dividing 
wall into the second chamber, however, is even and slow, 

1 Leffmann, " Civic Hygiene," in vol. v. of Cohen's System of Physio- 
logic Therapeutics. 
' See Bulletin, vol. 2, No. 5, September, 1906. 



424 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 



FIG. 90. 



SURFAtE OF GROUND 




Septic tank for private dwelling. 
FIG. 91. 



FROM THE HOUSE 




TO THE SEWAGE FIELD 



I 2 3 I 5 



Septic tank for private dwelling. 

so that the contents of the second chamber are not disturbed 
and the flocculent matter settles readily to the bottom. 
The bacterial action on the contents of this tank is 



ASHLEY BIOLOGICAL REDUCTION TANK. 425 

often so complete that there is no appreciable residue or 
sludge, and in this case the tank will rarely, if ever, have 
to be cleaned out. In some instances, however, the tank 
will require occasional cleaning. The sludge from a well- 
constructed tank is not offensive, and may be disposed of 
without difficulty. 

The sewage is carried into the discharging chamber 
(which is a cistern 6 feet in diameter and about 4 feet in 
depth), through a deeply trapped pipe. The second or 
discharging tank should be of sufficient size to hold the 
overflow from the septic tank for a period of 12 to 24 
hours. At the bottom of the discharging tank is an auto- 
matic siphon which is opened automatically when the 
effluent reaches a certain height in the tank or chamber 
a height of about 2J feet. Through this siphon the con- 
tents of the chamber will pass in a very few moments, at 
which time the siphon will automatically close and the 
chamber will again refill. 

From the siphon a pipe conducts the effluent, which is 
usually entirely without odor and is inoffensive in every 
way, to the place of discharge, usually on a lawn, provided 
it is well under-tiled and drained, or in a pasture or field. 

A similar provision for the disposal of the sewage of 
not only single dwellings, but even of large institutions, 
such as hospitals, schools, country clubs, etc., is the so- 
called Ashley system. In this the chief features are the 
" biological tank " and the " nitrification duct or subsoil 
bacteria bed." 

In the former, which is "so constructed as to induce 
rapid sedimentation of the solids and so gauged as to pro- 
duce for the bacteria the most favorable conditions for 
growth possible, without consuming all the oxygen in the 
sewage before discharging the tank effluent into the nitri- 



426 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 




ASHLEY BIOLOGICAL REDUCTION TANK. 427 

fication bed," the anaerobic action takes place and about 
one-fourth to one-third of the purification of the sewage is 
effected. The latter, which "performs the final and real 
process of purification," by oxidizing and nitrifying the 
liquefied organic compounds coming from the biological 
tank, is so built from common building materials as to 
" cause the liquids to be completely divided and scattered 
through its interior, and so contrived as to cause air to 
circulate constantly through the granular materials of 
which the duct is composed, thereby causing a very de- 
cided aerobic bacterial action therein by means of the 
trickling fluids coming in contact with the aerobic film 
covering the filtering media." The final product is practi- 
cally pure water, and is taken up by the surrounding soil, 
making it unnecessary in most cases to discharge it into 
a neighboring stream or lake. 

This system has the advantages that the component 
parts and the whole are always planned and installed for 
the exact work which it has to do, that it is underground 
and so out of sight and inoffensive in every way that it 
is not affected in its biologic functions by frost, and that 
it practically requires no attention after being once prop- 
erly constructed and installed. A half hour's time once 
a year is sufficient to care for an ordinary residential 
plant. 

It should always be remembered that any sewage- 
disposal plant can only do a certain amount of work, 
and, therefore, must be designed to meet the conditions 
under which it must operate. Regarding these condi- 
tions, Frankland says : " The recent experimental work 
on the bacterial treatment of sewage . . . shows most 
conclusively that the best results are achieved by sepa- 
rating the phases in which the bacterial purification 



428 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

takes place, allotting distinct places to the anaerobic 
and the aerobic organisms respectively engaged on the 
work. 

" The anaerobic bacteria are supplied along with the 
sewage, and practically no difficulty arises in retaining 
their services on the works beyond that of providing them 
with space and time in which to carry on their labors. 
The aerobic bacteria, however, demand air in addition to 
space and time, and if this air be not provided in sufficient 
quantities they go on strike, and leave the works, their 
place being taken by their less exacting anaerobic 
brothers, who are, however, unable to finish the work 
of purification. 

" There is, then, the constant tendency for the overflow 
of the anaerobic bacteria into the aerobic department of 
the works, if there be any stinting of air in the latter. 
In order therefore to insure the services of the aerobic 
bacteria being retained on the premises, it is desirable to 
provide for the aerobic bacteria at least two work-shops 
through which the sewage, on coming from the anaerobic 
department, is made to pass. 

" The first of these aerobic work-shops it may be diffi- 
cult to provide with adequate ventilation, the result being 
that both anaerobic and aerobic bacteria will here be found 
competing with each other, and that the aerobic organisms 
will be unable to complete the work of purification. 
The sewage, however, on passing into the second and 
better ventilated work-shop will there fall almost ex- 
clusively into the hands of aerobic bacteria, which it will, 
under proper management, leave as an inodorous, almost 
pellucid liquid incapable of putrefaction." 1 

1 See Francis Wood's Practical Sanitary Engineering, p. 216, 



FILTRATION OF EFFLUENT. 



429 



Another writer summarizes as follows : " As compared 
with the process of chemic precipitation and sedimen- 
tation, the bacterial process presents the following advan- 
tages : (a) It requires no chemicals. (6) It produces 
no offensive sludge, but only a deposit of sand or vege- 
table tissue which is free from odor, (c) It removes the 
whole of the suspended matter, instead of only about 
80 per cent, thereof. (<C) It effects the removal of 51.3 
per cent, of the dissolved oxidizable and putrescible 
matter, as compared with the removal of only 17 per cent, 
effected by the present chemical treatment, (e) The re- 
sultant liquid is entirely free from objectionable smell, and 
does not become foul when it is kept ; it further maintains 
the life of fish." 1 

The following table of results is given as an example 
of what may be accomplished by a proper combination of 
the septic tank 'and aerobic filter-bed, and also serves to 
show that the reduction in total organic solids, free ammo- 
nia, etc., is not entirely completed by the anaerobes in the 
former, but is continued by the later action of the aerobic 
organisms when they are given opportunity to work : 

TABLE SHOWING CHANGES IN SEWAGE UNDER BIOLOGIC ACTION. 
Parts per 100,000. 



Sample. 


Number 
of 
records. 


Organic 
solids in 
suspen- 
sion. 


Free 
ammonia. 


Albumin- 
oid am- 
monia. 


Oxygen 
absorbed 
in 4 hours 
at 80 F. 


Sewage 


18 


28 5 


2 154 


0972 


5 019 


Septic tank . . . 


16 


3.8 


1.716 


0'340 


2.184 


Filter, 1 foot . . . 


16 


0.16 


0.036 


0.052 


0.328 


Filter, 2 feet . . . 


16 


0.05 


0.020 


0.037 


0.286 


Filter, 3 feet . . . 


16 


0.06 


0.009 


0.031 


0.244 



1 American Year-book of Medicine for 1900, p. 549. 



430 THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

Electricity has also been suggested as an agency for the 
purification of sewage, but in most localities is still too 
expensive for the purpose. In the Webster process iron 
electrodes are used, and the favorable results are supposed 
to be due partly to the hypochlorites which are formed 
from the chlorides always present in the sewage, and partly 
to the carbonates and oxides of iron, which not only de- 
odorize but also help to oxidize rapidly the organic matters. 
By this method about 70 per cent, of the putrescible mat- 
ters and almost all the bacteria are removed from the 
sewage, but it is still rather costly on account of the large 
amount of iron consumed. 

The selection of the" method of sewage disposal has in 
the past been made too hastily or without sufficient con- 
sideration by some communities, with correspondingly un- 
satisfactory results. .In all cases, careful and scientific 
tests, covering the several seasons of the year, and taking 
into consideration local conditions and factors, should be 
made not only of various methods, but of different com- 
binations of methods, sufficient time being taken to deter- 
mine the value of each. A decision arrived at in this 
way will be most likely to prove satisfactory and to be the 
most economical and salutary to all concerned. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

MILITARY HYGIENE. 

THIS subject is one which has to do with active and 
presumably healthy men under conditions more or less 
abnormal and sometimes of a peculiar and unusual stress. 
Moreover, the actual financial value of the life and health 
of the individual to the State is more directly manifest 
than under ordinary circumstances, and, though at times 
the interests of the former must be sacrificed to those of 
the latter, it is of the highest economic and practical im- 
portance that a government should conserve as far as 
possible the health and welfare of each member of its 
army and navy. Consequently, much thought should be 
and is given to all those questions which rightly come 
under this head, and the effect of the efforts made in this 
direction is very decided, especially with reference to the 
regular or standing armed force of the country. 

Men who have become accustomed to military service, 
and to whom it is a real and permanent business, have 
probably a better health status than the average citizen, 
owing to the regularity of their habits and work and to 
the oversight and care which are given to the details of 
their life. Conditions are much different, however, when 
men are suddenly called from many occupations and ways 
of living to volunteer or militia service. They do not 
accommodate themselves readily to the change, nor do 
they appreciate the importance of details that may seem 

431 



432 MILITARY HYGIENE. 

trivial to them but that have great bearing on their future 
health. Often the utmost efforts on the part of those in 
authority and who are skilled in these matters are appar- 
ently of no avail and lead to undeserved censure. How 
much more serious actual neglect of hygienic measures 
may be has been proved more than once in the past. 

The following quotation from the Report of the Sur- 
geon-General of the Army for 1899 is pertinent : 

" Hygiene is one of the principal subjects of examina- 
tion for candidates desiring appointment in the medical 
corps of the army, and at the subsequent examinations for 
promotions to the grades of captain and major it is given 
a most prominent place. It is also the most prominent 
subject in the course of instruction at the Army Medical 
School, where the student officers spend five hours daily 
for a period of five months in practical laboratory work 
relating for the most part to the cause and prevention of 
infectious diseases; but the comparatively small number 
of medical officers of the regular army available for duty 
in the large camps occupied by our volunteer troops at 
the outset of the war (Spanish- American) proved to be 
entirely inadequate to control the sanitary situation in 
these camps." 

In a study of military hygiene, all phases of the routine 
life of the soldier should be discussed, for it is the combin- 
ation of these that make for good or evil. 

Unless the emergency is grave and large numbers of 
men are needed quickly, much attention should be paid 
to the selection of the men, and only those enlisted who 
satisfy certain physical requirements. They should be 
neither abnormally short nor tall ; the weight should be 
in proper ratio to the height ; the vision and general health 
good, and especially should the chest measurement and 



EXAMINATION AND SELECTION OF RECRUITS. 433 

expansion or " vital capacity " be considered as of great 
importance. 

"It has also been observed that a close correlation 
exists between the physical and moral development of 
men ; in fact, lowering the physical means lowering the 
moral standard of recruits." l 

Age is also a factor that should be considered. If 
recruits are too young, they are not able to withstand 
long-continued work or strain, nor will they be so likely 
to resist the incurrence of disease. On the other hand, 
men who are too old will be more liable to have habits of 
life or taints of chronic disease that will interfere with 
their military duty, and they will also not serve the 
maximum length of time that makes their work most 
economical to the government. . 

" The medical officer's first duty is rigorously to examine 
his command, if it has been newly raised, and inexorably 
to eliminate all men unfit for full military duty. Upon 
the medical officer who examines recruits for enlistment 
lies a heavy responsibility, for it practically rests with 
him to determine the physical efficiency of the command. 
Unfortunately in time of war, when the necessity for 
effective men is the greatest, this selection is apt to be 
devolved upon untrained civilians who have neither the 
special knowledge that fits them as judges nor the position 
that enables them in doubtful cases to withstand the con- 
stant importunities of still less informed recruiting officers. 
The careful examination of recruits is not practical hygiene, 
but the successful application of hygiene requires carefully 
selected men to secure the best results." 2 

1 Notter and Firth, p. 917. 

2 Colonel A. A. Woodhull, article on " Military Hygiene " in Refer- 
ence Handbook of the Medical Sciences. 

28 



434 MILITARY HYGIENE. 

In selecting the sites for camps or homes of soldiers, 
consideration must be had as to whether these are to be 
temporary or permanent, and as to whether the men are 
to live in tents or barracks. In any case, there should be 
sufficient space allotted to each command;. there should be 
no interference with the free circulation of air, and the 
soil should be dry, porous, and readily drained. The 
ground-water especially should not be too near the sur- 
face. Camps should not be located, except in event of 
grave military necessity, on ground that has been recently 
occupied by other troops ; nor should they be on clay 
soils, in ravines or valleys where they will receive the 
drainage from higher ground or other camps, nor near 
marshes or the marshy banks of rivers, nor where they 
will receive the winds pr mosquitoes from malarial dis- 
tricts. Thought should also be given to the source and 
abundance of the water-supply and its relation to the 
natural course of drainage from the camp. 

If tents are to be used, these must be such as to afford 
both thorough protection and good ventilation. They 
should not be too crowded, either as regards the number 
of occupants in each or the location of the tents one to 
another. If the camp is of extended duration, the tents 
should be floored, or at least the men should not sleep on 
the ground. 

A trench should also be dug about each tent to prevent 
flooding by rains, and from time to time the tents should 
be moved about, as " it is well known that tents occupy- 
ing the same ground for a length of time become un- 
healthy." Camp kitchens, stables, sinks, latrines, etc., 
should be as far from the sleeping tents as reasonable 
convenience permits, and to the leeward of prevailing 
winds. All camps should be regularly and carefully 



LOCATION OF CAMPS. 435 

policed, and " the fact that a camp expects to change its 
position does not justify neglect of proper policing of the 
ground occupied." 

In the regulations and instructions issued in 1895 by 
the British Quartermaster-General's Department the fol- 
lowing points are laid down as of importance : 

" 1. The length of time troops are to occupy the camp- 
ing-ground. 2. That order, cleanliness, ventilation, and 
salubrity are to be insured. 3. That means of passing 
freely through the camp are essential. 4. That a strag- 
gling camp increases labor of fatigue duties, and impedes 
delivery of supplies and circulation of orders. 5. That 
the more compact the camp, the easier it is to defend."' 

If the soldiers are assigned to forts or other permanent 
encampments, they will probably be quartered in barracks, 
and these will have been constructed according to specifi- 
cations. However, it should be remembered that in these 
attention must be given not only to the comfort of the 
men, but to their sanitary needs as well, and that the 
chief faults in such structures in the past have been insuffi- 
cient ventilation and improper location and arrangement 
of toilet-rooms, etc. 

Barrack buildings should not be more than two stories 
in height, should be comparatively narrow, should have 
free ventilation and access of sunlight about them, and 
should be so placed that they do not interfere with one an- 
other in these respects. It will be well if each sleeping- 
room is planned to contain not more than twenty-five men 
or a quarter company. Each man should have at least 
600 cubic feet of air-space in his dormitory ; with ceilings 
twelve feet high, this will give him fifty square feet of 
floor-space. Toilet-rooms should be separated from the 

1 Notter and Firth, p. 936. 



436 MILITARY HYGIENE. 

dormitories by a continually ventilated passage-way, at 
least ; it would be better to have the former entirely apart 
from the latter. 

Kitchens, dining- or mess-rooms, guard-rooms, and 
quarters for married men should be in separate build- 
ings and apart from the barracks, and these should each 
be properly arranged for its purpose. The same remarks 
apply to the post-hospital, which should have as complete 
an equipment as possible in accordance with the demands 
of modern medical and surgical science; and conse- 
quently, in addition to the general wards, there should be 
others for the isolation of contagious or infectious cases 
and for the insane. It goes without saying that the 
officers' quarters should have every hygienic and sanitary 
advantage and convenience, both as to construction and 
location, that the circumstances of the post will permit. 

In such permanent encampments, where the accommo- 
dations and conveniences more nearly resemble those in 
the home of the average private citizen, and where proper 
food, an ample supply of unpolluted water, and suitable 
arrangements for the removal of wastes and sewage can 
all be provided for, it will ordinarily not be difficult for 
the well-informed medical officer to maintain a satisfactory 
sanitary condition, and, owing to the discipline and super- 
vision of their habits to which the men are subjected, as 
well as to the fact that they are adults and males, the 
general health status of the post should usually be better 
than the average of the neighboring communities. 

But conditions and circumstances are much different on 
the "tented field," and especially so if the command 
belong to the militia or volunteer service, in which the 
men have been called from many and various occupations, 
are unaccustomed to the hardships of military life and 



TYPHOID FEVER IN CAMPS. 437 

the vicissitudes of out-door living, and are unmindful 
as they will be at first of the restraints and value of dis- 
cipline. Even though the medical officers be well versed 
in hygienic knowledge and thoroughly aware of the im- 
portance of the strict observance of sanitary precautions, 
and though they have the hearty assistance of the com- 
manding officers, it will take much time so to instruct the 
men that they will not endanger the health of themselves 
and others, and eternal vigilance and much effort will be 
the price of a continuously satisfactory state of affairs. 

" In time of war there is added a new army of volun- 
teers, whose men are often accepted without proper scru- 
tiny. The preservation of these men from disease is the 
chief concern of the medical officer, miscalled the sur- 
geon." 1 

The recent experience of this country in the Spanish- 
American War is vivid in the minds of every one, espe- 
cially as regards the sanitary conditions and the epidemic 
sickness in practically all the camps throughout the coun- 
try. And while there was much that was censurable, 
there was still much unjust censure given by those who 
did not understand to those who did and who strove to 
the utmost to overcome the untoward and unfortunate 
conditions. 

In August, 1898, a board of medical officers was ap- 
pointed by the Surgeon-General of the United States 
Army to " ascertain the causes of the existence and spread 
of typhoid fever in the national encampments, and to 
suggest means of its abatement." The results of their 
work, as epitomized by one of them, Prof. Victor 
C. Vaughan, in his " Oration on State Medicine " be- 
fore the annual meeting (1900) of the American Medical 
1 Colonel Woodhull, loc. cit. 



438 MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Association, 1 are very instructive and are worth quoting 
almost entire : 

"Every regiment in the United States service in 1898 
developed typhoid fever. Typhoid fever not only ap- 
peared in every regiment in the service, but it became 
epidemic, both in the small encampments of not more than 
one regiment, and in the larger ones consisting of one or 
more corps. Typhoid fever became epidemic in camps 
located in the Northern as well as those in the Southern 
States ; and it is so widely distributed in this country that 
one or more cases are likely to appear in any regiment 
within eight weeks after assembly. Typhoid fever usually 
appears in military expeditions within eight weeks after 
assembly. 

" With typhoid fever as widely disseminated as it is in 
this country, the chances are that if a regiment of 1300 
men should be assembled in any section and kept in a 
camp the sanitary conditions of which were perfect, one 
or more cases of typhoid fever would develop. 

" Neither the miasmatic theory nor the pythogenic 
theory of the origin of typhoid fever is supported by the 
investigations, but they confirm the doctrine of the specific 
origin of typhoid fever. It is disseminated by the trans- 
ference of the excretions of an infected individual to the 
alimentary canals of others, and it is more likely to be- 
come epidemic in camps than in civil life, because of the 
greater difficulty of disposing of the excretions from the 
human body. A man infected with typhoid fever may 
scatter the infection in every latrine of a regiment before 
the disease is recognized in himself. 

" Camp pollution was the greatest sanitary sin com- 
mitted by the troops in 1898, and it may be stated in a 
1 See Journal of American Medical Association, June 9, 1900. 



TYPHOID FEVER IN CAMPS. 439 

general way that the number of cases of typhoid fever in 
the different camps varied with the method of disposing 
of excretions. The tub system of disposal of fecal matter 
as practised in certain divisions is to be condemned, and 
the regulation pit system is not a satisfactory system of 
disposing of fecal matter in permanent camps. The 
Board has recommended that in permanent camps where 
water-carriage cannot be secured, all fecal matter should 
be disinfected and then carted away from camp. 

" Some commands were unwisely located, and in some 
instances the space allotted the regiments was inadequate. 
Many commands were allowed to remain on one site too 
long, and requests for change in location made by medical 
officers were not always granted. Greater authority 
should be given medical officers in matters relating to the 
hygiene of camps. Superior line officers cannot be held 
altogether blameless for the insanitary condition of the 
camps. 

" Infected water was not an important factor in the 
spread of typhoid fever in the national encampments in 
1898. Flies undoubtedly served as carriers of the infec- 
tion ; it is probable that the infection was disseminated to 
some extent through air in the form of dust ; personal 
contact was undoubtedly one of the means by which it was 
spread, and it is more than likely that men transported 
infected material on their persons and clothing, and thus 
disseminated the disease. 

"A command badly infected with typhoid fever does 
not lose the infection by simply changing location, but 
when it changes its location it carries the specific agents 
of the disease in the bodies of the men, in their clothing, 
bedding, and tentage, and even an ocean voyage does not 
relieve an infected command of its infection. However, 



440 MILITARY HYGIENE. 

after a command becomes badly infected with typhoid, 
change of location, together with thorough disinfection of 
clothing, bedding, and tentage, is necessary. 

" Except in case of most urgent military necessity, one 
command should not be located on a site recently vacated 
by another, but the fact that a command expects to change 
its location does not justify neglect of proper policing of 
the ground occupied. 

" It is desirable that soldiers' beds should be raised 
from the ground, and medical officers should insist that 
soldiers remove their outer clothing at night when the 
exigencies of the situation permit. In some of the 
encampments the tents were too much crowded. 

" Malaria was not a prevalent disease among the troops 
that remained in the United States, and while the inves- 
tigations show that coincident infection with malaria and 
typhoid fever may occur, the resulting complex of symp- 
toms does not seem to be sufficiently well defined and 
uniform to be recognized as a separate disease. The 
continued fever that prevailed among the soldiers in this 
country in 1898 was typhoid fever, but in military prac- 
tice typhoid is often apparently an intermittent disease. 

"About one-fifth of the soldiers in the national encamp- 
ments in the United States in 1898 developed typhoid 
fever ; army surgeons correctly diagnosed a little less than 
one-half the cases of typhoid fever, and while the deaths 
from typhoid fever were more than 80 per cent, of the 
total deaths, the percentage of deaths among cases of 
typhoid fever was about 7.5. When a command is thor- 
oughly saturated with typhoid it is probable that from 
one-third to one-quarter of the men will be found suscep- 
tible to the disease. 

" The belief that errors in diet, with consequent gastric 



TYPHOID FEVER IN CAMPS. 441 

and intestinal catarrh, induced typhoid fever, or that 
simple gastro-intestinal disturbances predispose to it, is 
not supported by the investigations. More than 80 per 
cent, of the men who developed typhoid fever had no 
preceding intestinal disorder. 

" The shortest period of incubation in typhoid fever is 
probably something under eight days, and one who has 
lived in a camp in which typhoid fever is prevalent is 
liable to develop this disease any time within eight weeks 
after leaving such a camp." 

In great contrast with this experience and that of other 
great nations was the record of the Japanese army in the 
recent Russo-Japanese war. In spite of great privations, 
almost incredible exertions, and other factors that favored 
the development of typhoid fever and other infectious dis- 
eases in epidemic form, this army remained almost entirely 
free from their incidence, and the death-rate attributable 
to them was so far below that of any previous experience 
of similar nature as to excite the surprise and admiration 
of the professional world. And yet the result was obtained 
simply by making the medical officers of the Japanese forces 
supreme in authority in all matters pertaining to the health 
of the troops under their command, and by the practical ob- 
servance and carrying out of sanitary principles already well 
known in their entirety by every physician of intelligence. 
It is, therefore, to be hoped that hereafter the medical 
officers of the military and naval forces of the so-called 
civilized nations may be granted more power and authority 
than they have been able to obtain in the past. 

So much has been included in the above quotations, 
looking in so many different directions, that it would 
seem that there were little more to say on the subject. 
However, a few words must be added. 



442 MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Despite the fact that malaria was apparently not very 
prevalent among the troops in this country in the late 
war, it is a disease that is often very harmful and disas- 
trous to armies. So is dysentery and, in other climates 
or countries, yellow fever and cholera. On account of 
the recent discoveries regarding the influence of the mos- 
quito in transporting the germs of malaria, yellow fever, 
and other diseases, a simple mosquito bar or net should 
be included in the kit of every soldier, and the Sur- 
geon-General's report of 1899 seems to give evidence 
of its efficacy in preventing such diseases among our 
soldiers in Cuba. As dysentery and cholera are well 
known to be transmitted by drinking-water, sanitary 
precautions as to the care of the water must be ob- 
served. Though the quotation above states that "in- 
fected water was not an important factor in the spread 
of typhoid fever, etc.," it must not be inferred that 
no cases were found to be due to such water. In fact, 
many cases were undoubtedly thus caused as Vaughan 
clearly states ; but the authorities, early realizing the 
dangers that might be due to a bad water, made such 
efforts to obtain pure supplies that other means of in- 
fection became relatively more important. Every effort 
should therefore be made to secure the purest water-supply 
possible in every military camp, and to have it thoroughly 
sterilized before use if there is any suspicion of its pollu- 
tion. A full description of nitration methods and of the 
sterilizer that has been adopted by the army has been 
given in the chapter on Water. 

As the efficiency of the soldier depends so much upon 
his food, and as it is of importance for so many different 
reasons, it is not strange that it has been the subject of 
the most careful investigation. In fact, much of the 



THE FOOD OF THE SOLDIER. 443 

scientific knowledge now pertaining to dietetics is the 
result of the work of the various governments in their 
efforts to determine the most satisfactory and efficient 
military rations. Considering the men simply as ma- 
chines, true economy requires that their food shall be 
ample in quantity and good in quality. Attention must 
also be given to its transportation and preparation, and to 
its character as a source of heat and energy. 

A study of the standard daily rations of the various 
armies of the world at once shows a noticeable uniformity 
among them in the amounts and relative proportion of 
the food-principles and in the ratio of nitrogen and carbon. 
And as these have all had the test of long time and exten- 
sive experience, they serve to establish their own scientific 
accuracy, as well as that of the dietetic ratios which 
have been determined in other ways and to which they 
so closely correspond. 

No part of a military administration is of more im- 
portance than the commissary department, for an army 
without food is soon worse than useless. But it is not easy 
to feed properly large numbers of men in an active cam- 
paign when the whole body is moving rapidly from place 
to place and when the exigencies of the day may seem to 
require all available means of transportation for other 
purposes. Consequently, much effort has been made to 
supply rations that are condensed in bulk aud that require 
as little immediate preparation as possible. 

Considerable advance in this line has been made in 
recent years, and various soups, meats, and vegetables, 
condensed and ready-cooked, are now often supplied when 
the same cannot be had in a fresh state. That such may 
be entirely satisfactory cannot be denied, but those in 
authority must be especially careful as to certain points, 



444 MILITARY HYGIENE. 

viz., that the food is not lacking in quality and that the 
processes employed have not impaired its dietetic value or 
digestibility nor permitted harmful changes to take place 
in it. The temptations of the army contractor are often 
hard to withstand ; moreover, tests have shown that if 
concentration be carried too far, not only the digestibility, 
but the nutritive value as well of the food may be seriously 
impaired. Thus the valuable salts may be lost with the 
water in the compression of vegetables. Again, the proc- 
esses may make the foods too uniform in taste, or there 
may be the omission of such accessories as vinegar, spices, 
etc., or there may be ignorance as to how to cook them 
properly ; and it must always be remembered that pala- 
tability has much to do with digestibility. For these 
reasons it will be wise to have at least part of the food 
issued in as nearly the fresh or ordinary state as possible. 

Space does not permit consideration of the various 
articles of food composing the prescribed ration, but it is 
evident that the laws of dietetics govern here as elsewhere. 
It may be well to say, however, that experience seems to 
show that alcohol should not be included in the regular 
ration, but should only be issued, if at all, in certain 
exigencies and in small quantities. 

The same principles hold good in regard to soldiers' 
clothing as for that of other people, but " in selecting the 
material the chief points to be considered are its permea- 
bility, durability, and the property it has of conducting 
and absorbing heat." It would be well if the undergar- 
ments were always in part, at least, of wool. The mate- 
rial of the uniforms and its weight should depend upon 
the exigencies of the service, considering both the locality 
and the season of the year. In cold weather wool should, 
of course, have first place; in hot climates the stout cotton 



THE CLOTHING OF THE SOLDIER. 445 

fabric called khaki seems to meet the conditions most satis- 
factorily. " The color of the material has an important 
bearing on the hygienic value of the clothing, and in 
regard to the absorption of heat exerts more influence 
than the material itself. . . . White possesses very slight 
absorptive power compared to other colors, and, next to 
this in the scale, gray or pale yellow gives the best results. 
Gray is the best color for soldiers' dress on service, for 
white is least suited to the field, as it soils so quickly. 
The khaki drill corresponds very closely with gray as 
regards absorption power." 1 

The clothing should nowhere be so tight as to interfere 
with respiration or circulation or with free movement of 
the body. There should be a sufficiency of socks in each 
man's kit, for "a good sock kept clean, is a protective 
against sore feet." Boots or shoes should be comfortable 
as well as durable and waterproof. Leggings may often 
be used to advantage ; they may be of stout canvas, khaki, 
or leather. Helmets or other head-dress should be light 
and well ventilated, and of a non-absorbent color. Ab- 
dominal bands of flannel are excellent protectives against 
digestive disturbances, if the men can be induced to wear 
them. Each kit should contain a rubber or waterproof 
blanket to protect the soldier from the dampness of the 
ground at night ; it can also be used as a cape in rainy 
weather. The weight of the kit, arms, accoutrement, etc., 
is often excessive, and should be kept as light as possible. 
In some armies as much as seventy pounds is to be car- 
ried by each soldier. It should be so divided that, when 
on the march, as much of this as possible can and should 
be carried in wagons for the men, they retaining only 
their arms and water bottles. " Weights are most easily 

1 Notter and Firth, p. 955. 



446 MILITARY HYGIENE. 

borne when the following points are attended to: 1. They 
must be as near the centre of gravity as possible. 2. The 
weights must in no case compress the lungs, or interfere 
with the respiratory movements or the elimination of car- 
bon dioxide, or hinder the transmission of blood through 
the lungs, or render difficult the action of the heart. 
3. No important muscles, vessels, or nerves should be 
pressed upon. 4. The weights should be distributed as 
much as possible over several parts of the body." l 

The last statement means that the pressure will be most 
advantageously put upon the tops of the shoulder-blades 
and upon the hip-bones and sacrum. 

The disposal of the wastes of a camp constitutes one of 
its gravest problems. If it is a permanent post and the 
men are quartered in barracks with a sufficient water- 
supply, it may be best to construct a complete sewerage 
system ; but where the encampment is temporary the dif- 
ficulties are greatly increased. Even though the camp is 
strictly policed, as it always should be, and the garbage 
and similar wastes destroyed by fire or burial, there re- 
mains the disposal of the excreta of large numbers of men, 
which, if neglected, is almost certain to become a source 
of infection. 

The customary sinks are not only liable to pollute the 
ground-water and perhaps the water-supply of the camp, 
but they are also a constant oifence to the senses, and we 
now know that infection may be carried by flies directly 
from them to the food in the kitchens and mess-tents. 
Where used, their contents should be covered thrice daily 
with a layer of fresh earth or lime, and when the contents 
reach within two feet of the surface they should be filled 
with earth and new ones opened. A medical officer has 

1 Notier and Firth, pp. 961, 962. 



DISPOSAL OF CAMP WASTES. 447 

recently suggested that instead of using earth or lime for 
a covering, dry grass or straw be spread over the con- 
tents and burned two or three times a day. This would 
not only serve to disinfect the surface and sides of the 
trench by fire, but the ashes of the straw would form 
a loose covering of several inches' thickness which would 
completely conceal the subsequent additions and at the 
same time effectually protect all the contents from the 
access of flies. Colonel Woodhull suggests the burning 
twice a day of small quantities of petroleum poured on the 
surface of the contents of the sink. 

However, it will be wiser to do away Avith sinks 
altogether and to provide measures whereby the excreta 
can be at once chemically disinfected and then removed 
beyond the limits of the camp. Theoretically, the tub or 
pail system would seem to be available if proper dis- 
cipline and supervision could be had ; but the recent 
experience in certain camps rather proves it to be unsatis- 
factory. Unless the contents are disinfected immediately, 
the soil about the camp will be almost certainly polluted 
and infected when the receptacles are removed for empty- 
ing, and the flies will also be as numerous as at the 
sinks. If the tubs should be partially filled before use 
with a disinfectant, and if they should have close-fitting 
covers which w r ould only be removed at the time of use, 
the objections to them would be diminished, but would 
still remain in part. 

The board of medical officers already referred to have 
recommended, and the Surgeon-General and Adjutant- 
General have adopted the recommendation, that the ex- 
creta be received into a large galvanized iron trough 
partially filled with an active disinfectant solution, prefer- 
ably milk of lime on account of its combined efficiency 






448 MILITARY HYGIENE. 

and cheapness. The trough is to be located in a suitable 
building, and when full or at regular intervals is to be 
emptied by means of a pumping cylinder into a large 
water-tight tank on a wagon, similar to the ordinary 
odorless excavating apparatus. It is probable that such 
apparatus under proper supervision will prove as efficient 
and practicable as any that can be devised short of a well- 
constructed system of sewers involving water-carriage, the 
installation of which is obviously not feasible in a tempo- 
rary camp or in one not having an abundant water- 
supply. 

Space does not permit of a full discussion of military 
hospitals. At permanent posts they may have almost all 
the equipment and conveniences of the best city hospitals, 
but in the field in actual service much must be foregone. 
This often leads to censure from the uninformed and 
where censure is not deserved. But commanding officers, 
especially of the medical service, should foresee every 
emergency and provide for it as far as possible, overrating 
rather than underrating the probable needs and demands 
upon the hospital staff, and providing for the comfort as 
well as the necessities of the sick and wounded. The 
knowledge that typhoid fever, for instance, is almost cer- 
tain to occur and become epidemic in any camp of con- 
siderable extent or duration should compel preparation 
for the proper treatment of this disease in so far as this is 
possible in a field hospital. The trained nurse has proved 
her value in army hospital work, and has now a place in 
the regular army medical service. The enlistment and 
training of a sufficient number of hospital stewards is 
also of great importance, as is also the instruction of the 
soldiers themselves as to the care of themselves in emer- 
gencies. Undoubtedly this latter instruction, meagre as 



INSTRUCTION IN HYGIENE. 449 

it has been, and the " first-aid packets " with which each 
man was supplied, greatly contributed to the excellence 
of results among the regular troops in the late war. 

A thorough course in the fundamental principles of 
hygiene should be a part, of the education of every soldier 
in the regular army, and especially should this subject be 
established as one of the most important in the curricu- 
lum at West Point. If the graduates and future officers 
from this great military school were so instructed, it is 
more than probable that the advice and suggestions of 
the medical officers of the service would be more often 
accepted and enforced in the future than they have been 
in the past. 

Hospital tents are apt to be poorly ventilated and 
oppressive in hot weather or climates. They should have 
every advantage of location, that the comfort as well as 
the health of the patients may be conserved. A venti- 
lated hospital tent, devised by Captain E. L. Munson, 
M. D., U. S. A., has been adopted by the Board of 
Equipment on account of its advantages, chief of which 
are a better ventilation and a lowering of the temperature 
within to the extent of several degrees. 

Another valuable addition to the hospital service of the 
army has been the purchase and thorough equipment for 
the purpose of several hospital ships. The saving of life 
and alleviation of distress made possible by these vessels, 
when compared with the effects of conditions obtaining in 
the ordinary transport ships, are incalculable. 

The work of the soldier, while excessive at times, ordi- 
narily permits much leisure to the men, which, in turn, is 
conducive not only to attacks of homesickness and ennui, 
but to the development of injudicious and injurious 
habits. Consequently, anything that will profitably 
29 



450 



MILITARY HYGIENE. 



employ the attention and activities of the men when off 
duty is beneficial. For this purpose reading-rooms, 
athletic sports and the work of various trades may be 
mentioned. This need furnishes one of the strong argu- 
ments for the restoration and continuation of the army 
canteen, or soldiers' club. This question involves the 
treating "with human nature as it exists in the army, 
rather than attempting the attainment of impossible 

FIG. 93. 




Munson ventilated hospital lent, adopted for United States Army. (The fly 
thrown back over false ridge-pole to show ventilation opening,) 

ideals," and it certainly seems that the favorable reports 
and commendation of the very great majority of army 
officers who have expressed their opinions concerning it, 
should warrant the reestablishing of the canteen. At any 
rate, the ability to keep his men pleasantly and advantage- 
ously occupied is one of the qualities of a good com- 
mander, and medical officers should assist the latter in this 
respect whenever possible. 



DUTIES OF THE MEDICAL OFFICER. 451 

The medical officer will also be watchful to guard 
against the causes of the diseases which are most preva- 
lent in the army, viz., phthisis, heart disease, pulmonary 
diseases, typhoid, malaria and continued fevers, and, not 
least in importance, venereal diseases. The latter do 
much harm in most standing armies, and it is as a pro- 
phylactic to these that the occupation of time and energy 
referred to above is especially advantageous. So, also, 
must the chief surgeon and his assistants keep oversight 
of the rations, water-supplies, etc. They must inspect 
the men at regular intervals, weighing and measuring' 
them, and examining for heart-strain or other circulatory 
disturbance ; they must select suitable places of encamp- 
ment when on the march, caring for those who are over- 
come by the heat or exhausted ; they must see that the 
troops do not injudiciously expose themselves when over- 
heated ; in fact, they must be fully as zealous and active 
as the commanding officer to maintain the entire com- 
mand in its highest physical efficiency. 

For further information on this important subject the reader is re- 
ferred to the article on " Military Hygiene " in the Reference Handbook 
of the Medical Sciences, by Colonel A. A. Woodhull, M. D., and to the 
text-book on the same subject by Captain Edward L. Munson, M. D., 
each of these being in their way models of comprehensive excellence, 
and having the authority of practical experience. Likewise, Gatewood's 
"Naval Hygiene" will supply much authoritative data and information 
relative to features or problems peculiar to sanitary administration in 
the naval service of the government. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

VITAL STATISTICS. 

SCIENCE is classified knowledge. By arranging known 
facts and units into groups, and considering them from 
different points of view, we discover the scope of a par- 
ticular science, and are also led to the discovery of new 
facts. 

In hygiene it is necessary to have this classification of 
facts to know what progress we are making, for the true 
test of any sanitary procedure is its efficacy in preserving 
health and preventing disease, and we cannot know 
whether it is efficient or not unless we tabulate and study 
the results and at the same time eliminate disturbing 
factors. In this connection it is to be noted that our 
facts must be accurate and derived from sufficient experi- 
ence, and that the disturbing factors are especially liable 
to be numerous. 

It is evident that we may study disease by direct 
observation at the bedside and at the post-mortem table, or 
by experiment ; and while our knowledge in the past has 
been gained principally by the former method, we now, 
since the advent of modern bacteriology, may further 
investigate many diseases by reproducing them in sus- 
ceptible animals. In this way we soon learn that some 
diseases are much more preventable than others, and we 
endeavor to discover the respective causes and predispos- 
ing conditions of each that we may the more readily 

452 



OBJECT OF STATISTICAL STUDY. 453 

estimate their effects and take measures to restrict and 
prevent their action. 

Our observations may be of two kinds : 1. By noting 
and comparing individual cases, or by following the track 
of a particular outbreak or epidemic. 2. By observing 
large classes and groups of men, which necessitates a 
record of births, marriages, diseases, and deaths. The 
consideration of such records constitutes the study of 
vital statistics, the most important object of which is, 
as Billings says, " to give warning of the undue increase 
of disease or death presumed to be due to preventable 
cause, and also to indicate the localities in which sanitary 
effort is most desirable and most likely to be of use." 
The reader will also notice how the study of vital statistics 
broadens out into the science of demography the study 
of the life of people and communities. 

The national census reports now give statistical returns 
not only for the wards and other political divisions of 
some of our large cities, but also for so-called " sanitary 
districts," in which the population is chiefly made up of 
those of marked racial or other characteristics that in- 
fluence the vital problem. The study of such returns 
supplies much information and the explanation of many 
otherwise obscure phenomena in the vital statistics of a 
municipality. 

At this point it will be well to note certain elementary 
principles which must be observed in any statistical in- 
quiry, in order that the results of that inquiry may have 
any value whatever. These are : 

1. Our facts, or numerical units, must have precise, 
definite, and constant characteristics. For example, in 
tabulating the death-rate or sick-rate from typhoid fever, 
every case used in the calculation must be accurately 



454 VITAL STATISTICS. 

diagnosed and must be undoubtedly one of that disease. 
If there is any doubt as to preciseness, it is better to omit 
that unit. 

2. The units are to be arranged into groups. These 
groups must have dividing characteristics so definite 
that there can be no doubt into which group each unit 
will come. No unit must be in more than one group 
at one time. It is difficult to group complex facts so 
as to analyze them properly and to discover all possible 
phases. 

3. Having decided and arranged the groups, we must 
have a constant numerical standard by which the relation 
of the various groups to the total units may be expressed. 
It is generally 100 or some multiple of 100. 

4. We must determine the variation in the proportion 
or relation of the component groups to the whole in similar 
series of cases. While only an approximation to an inva- 
riable proportion may be had in any one series, it may be 
shown mathematically that as the number of units in the 
series increases there is a greater probability that the pro- 
portions will remain the same, and that we may calculate 
the limits of variation by Poisson's formula, as follows : 
If m be the number of units in one group in the formula 
m-\-n = q, and n the number in the other, the propor- 
tion of m to q will be , and of n to q, -, and these propor- 
tions will vary in succeeding series within the limits indi- 
cated by 2 A l -. Consequently, the greater the value 

\ <f 

of 7, the less comparatively will be that of 2-*/ , or the 
limit of variation from and -. 



OBJECT OF STATISTICAL STUDY. 455 

Example : Suppose that in a series of 1 000 cases of 
diphtheria 700 recover; then, according to the above 
formula, the limit of variation in the next series of 1000 
similar cases would be 40, and the recoveries would be 
between 660 and 740 ; whereas, in a like series of only 
100 cases the limit of variation would be 13 and the 
probable recoveries would vary between 57 and 83. 

The arithmetical mean is usually employed in medical 
inquiries, though the increase in population is estimated 
by geometrical progression. The probable error or varia- 
tion from the arithmetical mean is about two-thirds 
(0.6745) of the mean error, which latter is the mean of 
the mean error in excess and the mean error in deficiency. 
The mean error in excess is the difference between the 
mean of the series and the mean of all the units of the 
series above the mean. The mean error in deficiency is 
the difference between the mean of the series and the 
mean of all the units below the mean. 

The relative value of two series is as the reciprocals of 
the squares of their probable errors. Thus if the probable 
error of series A is 10 per cent, and that of B is 2 per 
cent., the value of A to B will be as T ^-$ to \, or B will 
be twenty-five times as valuable as A. 

The relative value of two or more series is also as the 
square roots of the numbers of units in the respective 
series. From the above it is evident that the results 
from an average cannot be absolutely applied to any par- 
ticular case, for there is always the chance of such varia- 
tion as may be determined by Poisson's formula or by the 
estimation of the probable error. We apply averages to 
the aggregates of facts, and they will approach exactitude 
if they are founded on a sufficient number of facts. We 
must be Pareful in estimating the value of means anct 



456 



VITAL STATISTICS. 



averages and in giving credit or blame accordingly. Guy 
says : " Averages are numerical expressions of proba- 
bilities ; extreme values are expressions of possibilities." 

Statistical results are frequently expressed by graphic 
representations (see Fig. 94), and these are very valuable, 
especially for class or similar demonstration. 

The numerical units employed in the study and the cal- 
culations of vital statistics are persons living and persons 

FIG. 94. 




Graphic chart, showing percentages of typhoid-fever deaths in total mor^ 
talityin four cities. Unbroken line, Chicago; lower line, New York; short 
dashes, Philadelphia ; long dashes, Boston. 

dead, and the groups into which these units are classified 
are characterized by such distinctions as age, sex, occupa- 
tion, locality, etc. The sources from which we derive our 
information regarding these units are two, viz., the census 
or count, which every civilized country makes period- 
ically, and the returns of births, marriages, deaths, and 



NUMERICAL UNITS. 457 

cases of contagious disease made to local governing sani- 
tary bodies, such as boards of health, etc. These latter 
returns localize the units and help especially in the classi- 
fication in which locality is a factor. 

The census returns give not only the population, but 
also particulars as to sex, age, race, occupation, etc. Of 
these the age-record is most important, as the death-rate 
varies most according to age. 

The natural increment of a population is the excess of 
births over deaths, but the actual increment diifers from 
this, however, according to the difference between emigra- 
tion and immigration. And as the rate of increase does 
not always remain the same, estimates of population at 
times other than of the census cannot be exactly accurate. 
Thus, we may have a lowered death-rate and yet a de- 
crease in both the natural and actual increment, owing to 
a greatly lowered birth-rate and to increased emigration, 
both of which may be primarily due to a long period of 
oppression or financial distress. However, to estimate 
the population for times other than the census year, we 
assume that the rate of increase, whether positive or nega- 
tive, that prevailed between the last two census enumera- 
tions will continue until the next is taken. 

Now, as populations increase in regular geometrical 
progression when the rate of increase is constant, which 
we assume, it can readily be shown that 

logarithm R = (log. P' - - log. P), where R is the 

annual ratio of increase, P the population of the census 
before the last, and P' the population of the last census. 
If we now multiply the logarithm of R, the annual ratio 
of increase, by the number of years since the last census, 
and add to it the logarithm of the last census (log. P'), 



458 VITAL STATISTICS. 

we will have the logarithm of the population at the 
middle of the given year e. g., 
(log, of the pop. 1890 - log, pop. 1880) , , 189Q 

10 
= logarithm of the population on June 30, 1898. 

For the reasons already given, such an estimate will 
not be absolutely accurate, and it would, consequently, 
be well to have a census taken every five years for certain 
data. The more accurate the estimate for any year hap- 
pens to be, the mere reliable will be the statistical results. 
It is also to be noted that in this country the census is 
taken at the middle of the year, and that death-rates, etc., 
are based on the population estimated, as above, for the 
middle of the given year. 

We may also estimate the population from the number 
of houses and use this as a check on the above estimate. 
The number of persons living in each house averages about 
the same for each city, but differs for different cities. 
Local authorities always tend to overestimate the popu- 
lation, and a police census is invariably too high. An- 
other method of approximately estimating the population 
in small and slowly increasing districts is to add to the 
population of the last census one-tenth of the difference 
between it and the population of the preceding census for 
every year since the last census. 

As has been stated, we get the number of births, mar- 
riages, deaths, etc., from the registration records, the 
proper data being furnished to the registration bureau by 
duly authorized persons. For instance, the law should 
require a burial permit for each death in order to identify 
the person and to guard against criminal acts or neglect, 
and the death certificate on which the burial permit is 
issued should give the name, sex, co]or, age, occupation. 



SOURCES OF INFORMATION. 459 

and especially the cause of death of the deceased. The 
diagnosis concerning this last item should be as correct as 
possible, and the primary as well as the secondary cause 
of death should be given. And while it is difficult to 
determine the actual cause of death in many cases without 
a post-mortem examination, there is fortunately not much 
uncertainty usually in diagnosing the diseases of which 
we most want statistical information, especially the so- 
called preventable or infectious diseases. 

As a consequence of the above, the certificate as to the 
cause of death will need to be signed by some one compe- 
tent to determine that cause, viz., by an educated physi- 
cian ; and it is therefore necessary that the State should 
define who is and who is not an "educated physician." 
And as this information and the other required returns 
which the physician makes, as well as his professional 
services in general, are for the sake and benefit of the 
citizens of the State, it is evidently to the State's interest 
that it be very careful and explicit as to the qualifications 
of the physicians whom it allows to practise within its 
borders. 

Another reason for the enforced return of a certificate 
and the issuance of a burial permit for every death is that 
this is about the only way in which it is possible to secure 
a record of all the deaths. Any system for collating the 
list of deaths only at the end of the year will omit from 
25 to 40 per cent, of the number. 

The statements made in the introductory chapter 
and elsewhere show the importance of vital statistics 
in determining the sanitary conditions and improvement 
of communities. In order that comparisons and correct 
judgments may be readily made, it is evident that all 
classifications, returns, and registrations should be on a 



460 VITAL STATISTICS. 

basis or system as uniform as possible, but almost the 
opposite has obtained, since almost every State, city, or 
local authority has used its own system and without any 
concert of action until comparatively recently. Accord- 
ingly, in order to amend this and to secure not only uni- 
form, but also correct and thorough returns from the 
whole country, the Division of Vital Statistics of the 
U. S. Census Office is making extraordinary efforts to 
bring about uniform legislative requirements in the vari- 
ious States and to secure the adoption of the International 
Classification of Causes of Death, which is intended " to 
harmonize the features of the most generally used systems 
in order to afford a common basis of union," and has been 
adopted by the U. S. Census Office for the compilation of 
mortality statistics. To this end circulars have been sent 
to every physician "describing the details required by 
the Standard Certificate of Death (see next page), and 
giving the titles of the International Classification of 
Causes of Death, with explanatory notes showing the sig- 
nificance of various terms to the titles under which they 
are compiled, and a list of indefinite and unsatisfactory 
terms very frequently used in reporting deaths, with a 
statement of why such statements are unsatisfactory." 
This circular is very instructive, and its recommendations 
should henceforth be observed by all physicians in making 
death returns. 1 

The gross death-rate varies with the size of the com- 
munity. Newly settled communities have a lower death- 

1 This circular can doubtless be had on application to the Division of 
Vital Statistics of the Census Office at Washington, together with a cir. 
cular on Medical Education in Vital Statistics, relating to the instruc- 
tion of medical students in registration me.thods, uses of registration 
data, and the duties and obligations of physicians ; and one on Practi- 
cal Registration Methods, for the information of local registrars. 



8-209. 



MARGIN RESERVED FOR BINDING. 



V. S. No. 98. Write Plainly, with Unfading Ink this is a Permanent Record. 

N. B. Every item of information should be carefully supplied. AGE should be 
stated EXACTLY. PHYSICIANS should state CAUSE OF DEATH in plain 
terms, that it may be properly classified. The " Special Information for 
persons dying away from home should be given in every instance. 



ts 

<t> J 






TTl 
S" 

a 




Is 


-i 
m 






/ 


^5 


S 

5 


'x 

g 


03 
3D 


z 
S 


"a 


jo 

3D 
H 


li 


3> 

m 






5 

m 


V> 

m 

X 


W 


i 


* 
r> 


c 


* If death ( 

t If death < 
duced copy of i 




D 




(Address) , 


1 * 

m 

- 03 

m 

5 

* 


t* 

DO 

O 

m 
y> 

> 

T| 

3 


IPATION 


i J> 

5 

5 

- -n 

c 


rr 

z 

rr 

o 
-n 

3 




z 


X 
-D 

r- 

3> 

o 
m 


-n 

-n 


rn 



-n 
-n 

i 

X 

m 

30 



= 


T. 

o 



5 
Tl 


LE, MARRIED, 
WED. OR DIVOR 


! 


"S 






-n 

00 

3 




BSONAL AND 




3, 


PLACE OF 

nty of 


Lf 2 OX 
f* ft " 

(o n c. 










^ 


T> 

Tl 




"^ 







t 
X 










m 


! 




c 








CO 









C3 p C 












30 




iTTI 


x 




m 








a 


















n 


& i a 










2 


fi 




3D 


m 




3D 












>-' 








fE> 








g& ^ w 

*< ft CD 













D 






30 
























H 






-4 


pi Off 












































t~ 






I 


<? S'-5 










S 































o 


I i 


T| 






a f 

>- i < ^ 

a Wg 










g 

m 


T3 
33 




















3 








o 
o 


CJ 
(H 


|- 






g S3 












H 






















? 






30 




__ 






* "ES 










1 


2 




















r 










> 


> 






^ *o 

O -( f^ 










P 


> 






























S 

1 I 


m 


z 

3 




1 B 










m 


t> 































Q 

a 








, S"-tn 


? 








"" 


T| 






















,^ 
















S gg 


* 










H 

3Q 




















i. 


5 

















?-S 


-T 






























= 










00 








B X 


~ 










Tl 


















t 


I 


1 ~' 
















B - 3 o 
















































(ft 


g 8J" 
















































H 


o. S^. 
n> M .< 

O. <-^ /Tt 


c 
* 
c 


3 




-u 

r- 


Si 5< ^ 

2 c 

y ^ 


I 1 - 

i : 

-i - 


n 

; 




' 
(I 


/5 




o 

o 






01 

3 

a. 


3- 

01 


















Z 


! facts cal 

s NAME i 
by the U 


P 

3 
) 

r 


1 
3 



1 
3 






m 

o 
n 

DO 

r m 


sre was d 
ot at plac 


s - 

s: 

: - 
1- 
l, 
> 


= 
[ 

V 

* 
* 

> 


PECIAL 


I 


3 
t 

1 




tributory 






that deat 
M. The < 


5T 






HEREB 




m 



Tl 

O 

m 


M 
O 






O 

> 

JJ 

oo 


led for under " Spe 

instead of street an 
nited States Censut 








3D 

3> 

r- 


3D 

3D 

m 

S 
o 

r~ 


isease contracted, 
eof death ? 


1 
j 


p 

5 

r 

v 

C 

* 

I 

e 


INFORMATIO 


Address 












h occurred, on the 

:AUSE OF DEA 


3- 

i 

<' 

< 








Y CERTIFY. That 


(Month) 


-H 


[fJAL CEBTIFIOA 




a 

ID 

S- 


ENSUS OFFI 
CERTIFICAT 


o s y 
B 5 












Is 


M 


3 
' = 














*s 






S 






H 
M 




ff 


mo 
n 


? !| 

r* B 


i 

c 
~ 


* 
3 




a 
m 




? 3 

2.E 

-7 


5 E 

n 


rj 

* c 

- -! 






3" 
1 




ip 

5 


H 




stated 
was as 






tended 


"3 




O 
HJ 

tl 
W 




' z 
p 


D 


P 

1 


r 
c 
c 


3 

n 

r> 
n 




DO 




t : 

2-' 





fi 






5 




D 
I 




I! 

< 

S -? 






decea 






t> 

H 

w 






n 

> 











C 








r** 














w "1 


5 


-* 


! 










< 


i 








_L 


3D 








E 














Q) 

r* 








^ 


"3 





















j> 




M 




y. 




2 
















_^ 


_-.' 


O 

3 






u 

T 












t- 








M 






5 




? 













^ 








L 










1 






< 




P 











< 

f> 






. 














^ 
- 





461 



462 VITAL STATISTICS. 

rate than older ones, because the proportion of adults is 
larger and of children smaller in the former. With large 
communities and short periods the probabilities of error 
are very great, and the longer the period the less likelihood 
of error. Birth-rates, marriage-rates, and death-rates are 
usually calculated as rates per thousand of the population 
living at the middle of the given year, and are deter- 
mined by multiplying the number of births, marriages, or 
deaths by 1000, and dividing the product by the population. 

Fair death-rates are 9 to 16 per 1000 in rural districts 
and small villages; 14 to 18 per 1000 in towns of 5000 
to 20,000; 17 to 20 in cities of 25,000 to 100,000, and 
18 to 21 in cities of over 100,000. If the death-rates are 
much lower than this, the chances are that the population 
has been overestimated or that all deaths have not been 
recorded. If more than this, there is probably some 
special cause for the high mortality. 1 

In statistical computations we must exclude the popu- 
lations and deaths in hospitals, prisons, etc., except for 
such of the inmates as belong to the district in which 
such institution is located. 

To find the weekly or daily death-rate, the number of 
deaths for the week or day must be multiplied by 1000 
and divided by the so-called weekly or daily population : 

the weekly population = total PP ulatiop . the daily popu- 

52.1774T 

1 These rates were given some fifteen or more years ago by an em- 
inent sanitary authority, and they still hold good for much the greater 
part of this country. However, thanks to the recent advances in san- 
itation, such as the use of antitoxin, introduction of pure water, im- 
provement in milk and food supplies, etc., certain populations, and 
especially those of some of our larger cities, have succeeded in lower- 
ing the mortality rates below the standard given and in maintaining 
them at points which would have been deemed impossible a score of 
years ago. 



FACTORS AFFECTING MORTALITY RATES. 463 

lation = total PP U M2". The monthly population equals 
365.24226 

the daily population multiplied by the number of days in 
the month. 

The zymotic death-rate is the rate from the seven 
principal zymotic or infectious diseases, viz., smallpox, 
measles, scarlatina, diphtheria, whooping-cough, fever 
(typhoid, typhus, or other continued fever), and diarrhea. 1 
It is given per 1000 of population, and in the same way 
we can give the special rate for any particular disease. 
For example, the average annual zymotic death-rate for 
England and Wales for the decade from 1861 to 1870 
was 4.11, for 1871-80 it was 3.36, and for 1881-90, 2.30 
a striking proof of the decided benefits following proper 
attention to hygiene and sanitation. 

The mortality from certain diseases is affected by age, 
sex, race, occupation, density of population, seasons, 
cyclical changes, etc. 

Contrary to the general rule, the rate of in/ant mortality 
is not expressed per thousand of population, but measured 
by the proportion of deaths of infants under one year to 
the births registered in that year, and is determined by 
multiplying the number of deaths by 1000 and dividing 
the product by the number of births. 

The infant mortality-rate is always high owing to 
various causes, viz., early marriages and weakly parents, 
hereditary tendencies or diatheses, insanitary surroundings 
and unfavorable social conditions, improper feeding, in- 
sufficient clothing, infant life insurance, etc. 

Death-rates vary greatly for the different ages, being 
much higher for the first five years of life. For this 
reason it is well to express the death-rate of children 

1 Wilson, Handbook of Hygiene, 8th edition, p. 570. 



464 VITAL STATISTICS. 

under five as the rate per thousand of children under that 
age, rather than as a percentage of the total number of 
deaths. Otherwise, a town with a large number of chil- 
dren might apparently have an abnormally high death- 
rate. There might also be a difference in the death-rates 
of two localities due to sex-distribution, for the sexes 
differ in their susceptibility and resistance to the various 
diseases. More boys are born everywhere than girls, but 
more males die than females, so that the tendency is to a 
preponderance of the latter, except in newly settled coun- 
tries or localities. Age-distribution and sex-distribution 
favor a low mortality in rapidly increasing towns, new 
localities, and manufacturing districts ; in rural districts 
they tend to increase the death-rate. 

Consequently, when the death-rates of two or more 
towns or localities are to be compared, there must be cor- 
rections for age-distribution and sex -distribution. The 
mean annual death-rate of the country for the decade pre- 
ceding the last census for each age and sex is applied to 
the town or district, with age-distribution and sex-distri- 
bution according to the last census. The total number of 
deaths thus calculated, multiplied by 1000, and divided 
by the population of the last census, gives the standard 
death-rate of that town. The mean annual death-rate of 
the country divided by the standard death-rate gives the 
factor for correction, which being multiplied by the re- 
corded death-rate of any year gives the corrected death- 
rate. The comparative mortality figure is determined by 
multiplying the corrected local death-rate by 1000 and 
dividing by the death-rate for the whole country, and 
only indicates that the same population which gave 1000 
deaths in the whole country gave or would have given so 
many deaths in the town or district in question. 



DEFINITION OF TECHNICAL TERMS. 465 

The morbidity-rate or sick-rate of a community is diffi- 
cult to estimate, since there is usually no complete record 
and registration of cases of disease. Where returns are 
required to be made of the infectious diseases, the mor- 
bidity due to them may be determined in the same way 
as the mortality for the locality. It is estimated that 
there is a total of about two years' sickness in a 
community for every death, and members of beneficial 
societies are said to average about one and one-half 
weeks' sickness annually. " Applying this estimate to 
the United States, in which about 1,500,000 persons die 
per annum, there are probably at all times about 3,000,- 
000 persons seriously ill. This means an average of 
thirteen days for each inhabitant." 1 

In this connection, the following definitions are given 
of terms that are employed in discussions of vital statis- 
tics, especially in relation to longevity : 

The mean age at death of a population is the average 
age at which death occurs in that population, and is indi- 
cated by the total of the ages at death divided by the 
number of deaths. Inasmuch as it depends largely on the 
age-distribution of the population, it is neither a good test 
of longevity nor of sanitary conditions, except when it is 
calculated or taken from life-tables for an entire generation. 

The probable duration of life is the age at which any 
number of children born will be reduced one-half, the 
chances thus being even that each will survive to that age. 

For a million children the probable duration of life is 
for males less than forty-five years ; for females, forty- 
seven years. 

The mean duration of life is the same as the mean age 
at death when the population is stationary as to age- 

1 Report on National Vitality, Fisher, p. 34. 
30 



466 VITAL STATISTICS. 

distribution and sex-distribution. Otherwise, it is indi- 
cated by the mean after-lifetime. 

The expectation of life is the mean after-lifetime of a 
person at any age, as indicated by a life-table ; or, in other 
words, it is the average number of years which persons 
of that age continue to live. At birth it is identical with 
the mean duration of life, and " as applied to communi- 
ties, it is the mean lifetime of a generation of persons 
traced by the life-table method from birth to death, and 
is the only true test of the health of populations." Ac- 
cording to Farr, "a life-table -is a barometer which in- 
dicates the exact measure of the duration of life under 
given circumstances, and is indispensable in gauging the 
influence of sanitary or insanitary conditions." 

The essential factors of a life- table are the number and 
ages of the living and the number and ages of those that 
die, and these factors are obtained from the mean popu- 
lation for each age and sex and from the total death- 
returns between two censuses. 

" Contrary to common impression, there is no iron law 
of mortality. Recent statistics for India show that the 
average duration of. life there is less than twenty-five 
years. In Sweden it is over fifty years ; in Massachu- 
setts, forty-five years. The length of life is increasing 
wherever sanitary science and preventive medicine are 
applied. In India it is stationary. In Europe it has 
doubled in three and a half centuries. The rate of in- 
crease during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries 
was about four years per century ; during the first half 
of the nineteenth century, about nine years per century ; 
during the latter half of the nineteenth century, about 
seventeen years per century. And in Germany, where 
medical and sanitary science has reached the highest de- 






NATIONAL VITALITY. 467 

velopment, about twenty-seven years per century. The 
only comparative statistics available in this country are 
for Massachusetts, where life is lengthening at the rate" 
of about fourteen years per century, or half the rate in 
Germany." (Abstract of Report on National Vitality, 
Fisher.) 



CHAPTER XV. 

THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 

IN this final chapter the author has endeavored to ar- 
range a series of methods for the examination or analysis 
of the subjects respectively considered, in such a manner 
that any one who has had a little laboratory experience 
may be enabled to determine their hygienic conditions, 
sanitary influence, or degree of purity, and this at the cost 
of a minimum of time and expense. 

The methods outlined have been selected from a variety 
of sources, and some have been especially modified for the 
purpose ; so that while it is not claimed that they will give 
the absolutely accurate results desired by the professional 
bacteriologist or chemist, nor that they will suffice as a 
basis for expert testimony in court or to establish legal 
rights, it is believed that, if carefully carried out, they 
will not fail to yield the information sought for, viz., 
whether the sample of air, water, or food examined is 
sanitarily pure or safe for use within the accepted limits. 

Only such apparatus is to be used as can be readily 
obtained or improvised without much expense, and every 
effort has been made to render everything clear to the 
student and reader, so that he may not hesitate to under- 
take the necessary investigation whenever occasion requires 
or an opportunity offers. 

For further details regarding any of the methods, should 
these be found necessary, reference may be made to the 

468 



AIR. 469 

text-books indicated, as they will render clear any points 
that may here seem uncertain or abstruse. 

Air. 

The solid impurities in the atmosphere may be col- 
lected for microscopical examination as follows : Tightly 
cork a large glass funnel and fill it with cracked ice. As 
the aqueous vapor of the air condenses on the exterior, 
the dust particles adhere to the moistened glass, and are 
carried down by the condensed water into a vessel placed 
below, in which they are allowed to settle. From this 
they are transferred by means of a pipette to clean slides 
and examined under the microscope. Dixon's apparatus 
may often be used advantageously, especially where it is 
desired to examine the dust in the air of a number of 
localities within a short time. In this the air from the 
respective places is drawn successively over cover-glasses 
which have been coated with gelatin or glycerin, and on 
which the dust particles are deposited and adhere till they 
may be examined microscopically or bacteriologically. 

To make a qualitative bacteriological examination the 
air may also be drawn through sterilized glass tubes coated 
interiorly with gelatin. Bacteria and their spores, moulds, 
etc., adhere to this coating, and from each individual or 
group of individuals colonies develop, from which pure 
cultures and subsequent bacteriological experiments may 
be made ; or the sterilized gelatin may be exposed in flat 
(Petri) dishes to the air for a short time to allow the bac- 
teria, etc., to fall on the surface. The tubes or dishes are 
then covered and set aside to allow the colonies to develop. 

To make a quantitative bacteriological examination a 
known quantity of air may be drawn through a small 
tube filled with sterilized and pulverized sugar. The 



470 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 

sugar is then transferred to tubes or flasks of melted and 
sterilized gelatin, and dissolving leaves the bacteria, etc., 
free to develop in the gelatin, which may be poured 
upon sterilized glass plates or Petri dishes before cooling. 
A temperature just sufficient to melt the gelatin will not 
be too warm to harm the bacteria. The number of colo- 
nies that develop maybe assumed to represent the number 
of living micro-organisms in the volume of air drawn 
through the tube. 

Test for Carbon Dioxide, C0 2 . Boom's Modi- 
fication of Wblperffg Method. Make a mark on any test- 
tube, say one inch from the bottom. Fix the bulb of 
an atomizer to a glass capillary tube sufficiently long 
to reach to the bottom of the test-tube, and in such a 
manner that a definite quantity of air is. forced from the 
bulb through the tube at each compression. To use : Fill 
the test-tube exactly to the mark with a saturated solu- 
tion of lime-water, take the apparatus into the out-door 
air and find out how many compressions of the bulb are 
needed, driving the air slowly through the lime-water 
each time, to make the lime-water just turbid enough to 
obscure a pencil-mark on white paper placed beneath the 
test-tube and viewed from above. Then rinse out the 
test-tube, fill exactly to the mark again with lime-water, 
and repeat the process in the room the air of which is to 
be examined. We then assume that the out-door air con- 
tains the normal amount of carbon dioxide 0.04 per cent, 
(unless we happen to know the actual amount in the atmos- 
phere at the time), and estimate the percentage of carbon 
dioxide in the air of the room by the following proportion : 
Let x = the percentage of CO 2 in the air of the room. Then 
the number of compressions of the bulb required in the outer 
air is to the number of compressions required in the room as 



TEST FOR CARBON DIOXIDE IN AIR. 471 

x is to 0.04- If the actual percentage of CO 2 in the outer 
air is known, substitute this for the 0.04 per cent, in the 
formula. Care must be taken in using this device not to 
draw any of the lime-water into the bulb. 

A Modification of Angus Smith's Method. To a mod- 
erately large, wide-mouth bottle (one quart) fit a per- 
forated rubber stopper, the perforation being just large 
enough to admit the tip of a 1 c.c. pipette ; first fill the 
bottle with the air of the room by filling it with water 
and then emptying it in the room ; fit in the stopper and 
introduce 1 c.c. at a time of a standardized alkaline 
solution, slightly colored with a few drops of a neutral 
alcoholic solution of phenolphthalein ; close the perfora- 
tion with a piece of glass rod and shake the bottle well 
after each addition of the alkali, noting when the color 
ceases to be discharged by the CO 2 of the contained air. 
Then, since the quantity used of the alkali solution indi- 
cates a certain definite amount of CO 2 : 

The number of c.c. of solution used multiplied by the 
amount of C0 2 each c.c. represents, multiplied by 100, 
and divided by the capacity of the bottle in c.c. less the 
number of c.c. of solution used = x = t\ie percentage of 
CO 2 in the air examined. 

A suitable alkaline solution may be prepared as fol- 
lows : Dissolve exactly 2.409 grammes of pure sodium 
carbonate (free from the water of crystallization) in 1 
litre of distilled water. Only a fraction, say one-fourth 
or one-tenth, of this quantity need be made up at a time. 
Each c.c. of this solution is equivalent to 1 c.c. of CO 2 . 
For use : To 10 c.c. of this solution add a few drops of 
neutral alcoholic solution of phenolphthalein and dilute 
to 100 c.c. Each c.c. of this dilute solution is then 
equivalent to 0.1 c.c. of CO 2 , and used as above will give 



472 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 

close results. The phenolphthalein is used as an indi- 
cator, as it loses its color as long as the CO 2 is absorbed 
and the alkalinity of the soda solution is destroyed. The 
stock solution should be kept in well-filled, tightly stop- 
pered bottles. 

Example : If 9 c.c. of the above dilute solution be used, 
and the capacity of the bottle is 1200 c.c., then 
9 X 0.1 X 100 90 



the percentage of CO 2 in {he air of the room. 

Pettenkofer's Method. Into a large clean bottle filled, 
as above, with the air of the room, 50 c.c. of a clear solu- 
tion of lime (or barium hydrate) are introduced, the bottle 
stoppered and then well shaken so that the air may be 
thoroughly mixed with the lime-water. The strength of 
the lime-water, being unknown, is determined by means 
of a solution of oxalic acid of such a strength that 1 c.c. 
corresponds in alkalinity to 0.5 c.c. of CO 2 . (Such a 
solution is made by dissolving exactly 2.84 grammes of 
pure crystallized oxalic acid in 1 litre of distilled water.) 

Into 25 c.c. of the stock lime-water in a beaker this 
acid solution is run from a graduated burette until the 
alkalinity of the lime-water is just destroyed, the neutral 
point being indicated either by means of a few drops of 
phenolphthalein solution in the beaker or by turmeric 
paper, the latter being colored brown and the phenol- 
phthalein retaining its color as long as the solution is 
alkaline. When the lime-water is exactly neutralized, the 
exact amount of the acid solution used is noted. Then, 
after the time necessary to allow the complete absorption 
of the CO 2 in the testing bottle by the lime-water therein, 
viz., eight to ten hours, 25 c.c. of that lime-water are 
measured into a beaker, and the alkalinity exactly 



PETTENKOFER'S METHOD. 473 

determined as above by means of the oxalic acid solu- 
tion. 

Now, inasmuch as part of the alkalinity of the lime- 
water which was in the bottle has already been neutral- 
ized by the carbon dioxide in the air of the bottle, it will 
require less of the acid solution to neutralize the lime- 
water from the bottle than was required for the same 
quantity of stock lime-water, and as 1 c.c. of the acid 
solution corresponds to 0.5 c.c. of CO 2 , the diiference in 
the amounts of acid solution used expressed in c.c. will 
express the number of c.c. of CO 2 in the volume of air 
in the bottle. 

For, though each c.c. of acid solution is equivalent to 
only 0.5 c.c. of CO 2 , the loss of alkalinity of only one- 
half the lime-water primarily introduced into the bottle 
has been determined, and the total loss of alkalinity would 
have to be expressed by multiplying 0.5 c.c. CO 2 by twice 
the difference in c.c. between the amount of acid used in 
testing the stock lime solution and that used in testing 
the 25 c.c. (one-half) of lime-water from the bottle. But 
twice 0.5 1 . Therefore, the difference between the 
readings in the two tests gives the amount of CO 2 in the 
bottle having been thus determined and the capacity of 
air in the bottle. The quantity of carbon dioxide in the 
bottle having been thus determined and the capacity of 
the bottle found by measuring the quantity of water it 
will hold, the percentage of carbon dioxide in the air ex- 
amined is readily determined. 

Example : 25 c.c. of stock lime-water require 30 c.c. 
acid solution ; 25 c.c. of lime-water from bottle require 
27 c.c. of acid solution. 

Therefore, 30 c.c. 27 c.c. = 3 c.c. = amount of carbon 
dioxide that was in the air in the bottle, which latter con- 
tains (for example say) 2550 c.c, 



474 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 



air of the room at current temperature and pressure. To 
be absolutely exact in the result, correction must be made 
by reducing the results to the standard temperature and 
barometric pressure, but this is unnecessary in most cases. 
The absorption of the carbon dioxide gas is more rapid 
if a solution of barium hydrate is used instead of the 
lime-water, the former taking up the gas in an hour or so 
instead of eight or ten, as with the lime-water, but the 
latter is usually much more readily obtained, and there- 
fore more likely to be used. 

Water. 

To test for color, turbidity, etc., compare with distilled 
water, using tall glass jars and looking down through 
equal depths upon a white surface. The smell of a water 
may be detected by heating it to about 140 F. for a few 
minutes in a glass-stoppered bottle. This test may or 
may not indicate fecal contamination. Few polluting 
impurities, when only in moderate quantities, give any 
taste to water, and a dangerously polluted water may 
have a good taste. Iron in small quantities, one-fourth 
of a grain to a gallon, will give a taste to the water. 

Use caution in tasting suspicious waters. Aeration is 
indicated by the lustre of the water and by the presence 
of air-bubbles on the sides and bottom of the vessel. 1 

Test for Chlorine. Solutions required: 1. Standard 
nitrate of silver solution : to 1 litre of pure distilled water 
add 4.788 grammes of pure silver nitrate ; 1 c.c. of this 
solution is equivalent to 1 m.g. of chlorine. 2. Potas- 
sium chroraate solution a 5 or 10 per cent, solution of 
i See also pages 205 to 210, 



TEST FOR CHLORINE IN WATER. 475 

potassium chromate made up in distilled water free from 
chlorine. 

Process. To 100 c.c. of the water add a few drops of 
potassium chromate solution, and then run in from a 

FIG. 95. 



Bottle for collecting samples of water at different levels. 

burette or graduated pipette the silver solution, adding it 
drop by drop, and stirring the water with a glass rod. 
Continue until a faint but permanent orange-red tint has 



476 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 

been produced, showing that all the chlorine has combined 
with the silver, the persistent reddish color being due to 
silver chroraate. The number of c.c. of silver solution 
used indicates the number of milligrammes of chlorine in 
100 c.c., or parts per 100,000; this multiplied by 10 gives 
the number of milligrammes in 1 litre, or parts per 
1,000,000. If the water contains but little chlorine, 
accuracy will be furthered by evaporating 250 c.c. of the 
water to 50 c.c. over a water-bath, and proceeding as 
above ; the result multiplied by 4 will give the amount 
of chlorine in 1 litre. 

Test for Nitrates. Solutions required: 1. Phenol- 
sulphonic acid : 6 grammes of pure carbolic acid; 37 c.c. 
of strong sulphuric acid, and 3 c.c. of distilled water. 2. 
Standard potassium nitrate solution : add 0.722 gramme 
of fused potassium nitrate to 1 litre of distilled water. 
Each c.c. of this solution contains 0.1 m.g. of nitrogen as 
nitrates. The water used in making the solution must be 
free from nitrates. 

Process. Evaporate 10 c.c. of the water to be exam- 
ined (or 25 c.c. if it is presumably low in nitrates) just to 
dryness. Add 1 c.c. of phenolsulphonic acid, stir with a 
glass rod, and add 1 c.c. of distilled water and 3 drops of 
strong sulphuric acid ; warm, and add 25 c.c. of distilled 
water, being careful throughout the test not to dissociate 
and drive off any of the nitrates by too prolonged or in- 
tense heating ; then add ammonia until the fluid is strongly 
alkaline, and dilute with water to 50 c.c. 

Treat 1 c.c. of the standard solution in an exactly 
similar manner and compare the tints produced, placing 
them in two Nessler or other tubes of equal calibre, and 
diluting the darker until the tints match exactly, and cal- 
culating the amount of nitrogen present by the amount of 



TEST FOR NITRITES IN WATER. 477 

dilution necessary e. g., in testing a certain sample, the 
tint from 1 c.c. of standard potassium nitrate solution is 
darker and requires the addition of 50 c.c. more water 
i. e., up to 100 c.c. Therefore, 100 c.c. : 50 c.c. 
: : 0.1 m.g. N :# = 0.05 m.g., the amount of nitrogen as 
nitrates in the 10 c.c. of water examined. The test is based 
on the facts that some of the phenolsulphonic acid is con- 
verted by the nitrates into picric acid, which forms am- 
monium picrate upon addition of the ammonia and gives 
a yellow tint to the water, and that the amount of picric 
acid and picrate formed and the consequent depth of color 
depend on the amount of nitrates present in the water. 

Test for Nitrites. Solutions required: 1. Sulphanilic 
acid : dissolve 0.5 gramme of sulphanilic acid in 150 c.c. 
of dilute acetic acid, sp. gr. 104. 2. Naphthylamine 
acetate : boil 0.1 gramme of solid naphthylamine in 20 
c.c. of distilled water, filter through a plug of washed 
absorbent cotton, and mix the filtrate with 180 c.c. of 
dilute acetic acid. 3. Standard sodium nitrite solution : 
dissolve 0.275 gramme of pure silver nitrite in pure water 
and add a dilute solution of pure sodium chloride until a 
precipitate ceases to form, and dilute to 250 c.c. with pure 
water. For use, dilute 10 c.c. of this stock solution to 100 
c.c. Each c.c. of the dilute solution contains 0.01 m.g. 
of nitrogen as sodium nitrite. Keep the solutions in the 
dark when not in use. All water in these solutions must 
be free from nitrites ; likewise all water used in the tests, 
except the sample under examination. 

Process. Place 25 c.c. of the water to be examined in 
a cylindrical vessel, and in a similar vessel of the same 
calibre dilute 1 c.c. of the (diluted) standard sodium nitrite 
solution to 25 c.c. with nitrogen-free distilled water ; add 
to each vessel 2 c.c. of first one and then the other reagent, 



478 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATEU, AND FOOD. 

using a separate pipette for each ; compare the colors at the 
end of five minutes and estimate the amount of nitrites by 
diluting the darker tint until it matches the lighter, and 
comparing the respective volumes, as in the test for 
nitrates ; the result will give the quantity of nitrogen as 
nitrites in the water, and should not be more than a trace. 
The above test is a very delicate one. 

Schuyten's Method. 1 " When 5 c.c. of a 1 per cent, 
solution of antipyrin in acetic acid (1 : 10) is added to a 
solution containing nitrites, a green color is produced." 
Measure 45 c.c. of the water to be examined into a 
Nessler tube, and in another of equal calibre mix 1 c.c. 
of the standard sodium nitrite solution (dilute) with 44 
c.c. of distilled and nitrite-free water. To each tube add 
5 c.c. of the antipyrin solution. Allow to stand for one- 
half hour and compare as above. 

" This method will show the presence of 1 part of 
nitrogen as nitrous oxide in 20,000 parts, and while not 
so delicate, as the other method, is not hindered by the 
presence of any of the ordinary contaminations in water." 2 

Test for Hardness. Solutions*required : 1. Soap solu- 
tion : dissolve 10 grammes of castile soap in 1 litre of 
weak (35 per cent.) alcohol. 2. Standard lime solution : 
dissolve 1.11 grammes of chemically pure calcium chlo- 
ride in 1 litre of distilled water : 1 c.c. of this solution 
is equivalent to 1 m.g. of calcium carbonate. 

Process. Ascertain how much soap solution is required 
to make a standard lather with 100 c.c. of distilled water, 
as follows : Place the water in a flask holding about 250 
c.c., and run in the soap solution from a burette, a few 
drops at a time, corking and shaking the flask well after 
each addition ; the lather should have a depth of at least 

1 Bergey's Handbook of Practical Hygiene, p. 95. 2 Ibid. 



TESTS FOR LEAD, COPPER, AND IRON IN WATER. 470 

one-fourth of an inch and be permanent for not less than 
five minutes. Then standardize the soap solution by dilut- 
ing 5 c.c. of the standard lime solution to 100 c.c. with dis- 
tilled water, and determine how many c.c. of the soap 
solution are required to make a permanent lather as 
above with it; this quantity, less the number of c.c. 
needed to make a lather with 100 c.c. of distilled water, 
represents the amount of soap solution that will neutral- 
ize 5 m.g. of calcium carbonate or its equivalent. Lastly, 
determine in the same way the number of c.c. of soap 
solution necessary to make a permanent lather with 100 
c.c. of the water to be examined ; again subtract the 
quantity of soap solution requisite to make a lather 
with 100 c.c. of distilled water, and estimate the amount 
of calcium carbonate or its equivalent present, as fol- 
lows e. g. } it takes 2 c.c. of soap solution to make 
a lather with the distilled water, and 12 c.c. with the 
diluted standard lime solution ; then 12 c.c. 2 c.c. = 
10 c.c., which is equivalent to 5 c.c. of the standard lime 
solution, and accordingly each c.c. of the soap solution is 
equivalent to 0.5 c.c. of the standard lime solution, or to 
0.5 m.g. of calcium carbonate ; consequently, if 100 c.c. of 
the water examined require 17 c.c. of soap solution, it 
must contain (17 2) X 0.5 = 7.5 m.g. of calcium car- 
bonate or its equivalent, or 75 m.g. to the litre. 

Tests for Lead, Copper, and Iron. To 50 or 100 c.c. 
of water in a white porcelain dish, or in a tall glass jar 
over white paper, add a few drops of ammonium sul- 
phide ; a dark coloration or precipitate indicates the pres- 
ence of either lead, copper, or iron, due to formation of 
their respective sulphides. Then add a few drops of 
hydrochloric acid : if the color disappears, iron only is 
present ; if it persists, lead or copper is present. In the 



480 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 

latter case add a few drops of acetic acid and about 1 c.c. 
of a strong solution of potassium cyanide : if the color 
disappears, it is due to copper ; if it persists, it is due to 
lead. If lead only is present, the above test will detect 
one-tenth of a grain per gallon. The above tests may be 
corroborated as follows : Partly fill two test-tubes with 
the original water. To one add a little potassium chromate 
solution : an opacity and the deepening of the color to 
canary yellow indicate lead. To the second add a drop 
of hydrochloric acid and a few drops of potassium ferro- 
cyanide solution : a blue color indicates iron, in either the 
ferrous or ferric form ; a bronze or mahogany-red color 
indicates copper. 

Quantitative tests for the above metals may be made by 
making standard solutions of the respective elements or 
some of their salts, treating a measured quantity of the 
original water with the proper reagent as indicated above, 
and comparing the color produced with that given by a 
definite quantity of the respective standard solution. 

Test for Phosphates. Solutions required : Ammonium 
molybdate : dissolve 10 grammes of molybdic anhydride 
in 41.7 c.c. of ammonia (sp. gr. 0.96) and pour slowly 
into 125 c.c. of nitric acid (sp. gr. 1.20) ; allow to stand 
in a warm place for several days until clear. 

Process. Slightly acidulate 500 c.c. of water with 
nitric acid, evaporate to 50 c.c., and add a few drops of 
ferric chloride and ammonia to slight excess ; filter, dis- 
solve the precipitate in the smallest possible quantity of 
nitric acid and evaporate to 5 c.c.; heat nearly to boiling, 
add 20 c.c. of ammonium molybdate solution ; keep the 
solution warm for one-half hour. If there is an appreci- 
able quantity of precipitate, collect it on a small weighed 
filter-paper, wash with distilled water, dry at 100 F., and 



TEST FOR AMMONIA IN WATER. 481 

weigh. The weight of the precipitate multiplied by 0.05 
gives the amount of phosphorus tetroxide (PO 4 ) in the 
500 c.c. of water. 

Test for Free and Albuminoid Ammonia. Wank- 
lyn's Method. Solutions required: 1. Standard ammo- 
nium chloride solution : dissolve 0.382 gramme of pure 
dry ammonium chloride in 100 c.c. of ammonia-free water. 
For immediate use dilute 10 c.c. of this standard stock 
solution up to 100 c.c. with ammonia-free water; each 
c.c. of the dilute solution contains 0.01 m.g. of nitro- 
gen as ammonia. 2. Alkaline potassium permanganate 
solution : dissolve 200 grammes of potassium hydrate (in 
sticks) and 8 grammes of potassium permanganate in 1 
litre of distilled water, evaporate to about 750 c.c. to 
drive off the ammonia present, and make up to 1 litre 
again with ammonia-free water. To make ammonia-free 
water, add about 1 grain of sodium carbonate to 1 litre of 
distilled water and boil until about one-fourth is evapor- 
ated. 3. Nessler's reagent : dissolve 1.5 grammes of 
potassium iodide in 10 c.c. of distilled water and 1.7 
grammes of mercuric chloride (HgCl 2 ) in 30 c.c. of dis- 
tilled water ; add the mercuric chloride solution to the 
potassium iodide until a permanent precipitate is formed, 
and then dilute to 100 c.c. with a 20 per cent, solution 
of sodium hydrate, add the mercuric chloride solution till 
a permanent precipitate again forms, and allow to stand 
until clear ; this reagent gives a brown or yellowish-brown 
coloration if ammonia be present in water, and improves 
on keeping. 

Process. Place in a retort 500 c.c. of the water to 

be examined, connect with a condenser, and boil gently 

so that the water may distil over slowly. The retort 

and condenser should have been thoroughly rinsed with 

31 



482 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 

ammonia-free water. Collect the distillate, 50 c.c. at a time, 
in Nessler tubes, add 2 c.c. of Nessler's reagent to each 
50 c.c., and determine the amount of ammonia or nitrogen 
in each as follows : Place in another Nessler tube 50 c.c. of 
ammonia-free water and 2 c.c. of Nessler's reagent, run 
in from a burette the dilute standard ammonium chloride 
solution until the color exactly matches that of the first 50 
c.c. of the distillate. Repeat the process for each 50 c.c. of 
distillate until the test shows no more ammonia is coming 
over from the retort. The total amount of (dilute) ammo- 
nium chloride solution used indicates the total amount of 
nitrogen of the free ammonia. Usually all the free am- 
monia will come over in the first 150 or 200 c.c. of dis- 
tillate. Compare the colors by looking down through the 
tubes on a white surface. If the first 50 c.c. give a pre- 
cipitate with the Nessler reagent, it must be diluted and 
the amount of nitrogen estimated from the diluted distil- 
late. The free ammonia being determined, allow the 
retort to cool and add to the water remaining in it 50 
c.c. of the alkaline permanganate solution. This converts 
a certain proportion of the nitrogenous organic matter of 
the water into ammonia ; distil as before, estimating the 
amount of nitrogen in each 50 c.c. of the distillate until 
ammonia ceases to come over. The amount of ammo- 
nium chloride solution thus used will indicate the nitrogen 
of albuminoid ammonia, and the total amount of ammo- 
nium chloride solution used in the whole process gives the 
nitrogen of the total free and albuminoid ammonia in 1 
litre of water. 

The importance and relative value of the results of the 
foregoing tests in determining the purity or safety of a 
drinking-water, have been given in Chapter V. on pages 
210 to 213, inclusive. 



FOOD. 483 

Food. 

Milk. Good Milk. Characteristics: ivory white, 
opaque, neutral or slightly alkaline reaction, no sediment, 
no unusual or offensive taste or odor, specific gravity 1029 
or above ; cream, 10 to 40 per cent, by volume ; fats, 3 
per cent, or more ; total solids, 1 2.5 per cent, or more. 

Water is indicated by low specific gravity and by low 
percentage of cream. 

Skimming is indicated by a slightly raised specific 
gravity (2), by a low percentage of cream, and by a 
poor color, though the deterioration in color may be dis- 
guised by the addition of annotto, etc. 

Watering and skimming are indicated by lowered specific 
gravity, by low percentage of cream, and by poor color. 

The specific gravity is determined by the lactometer, 
in using which correction must be made for temperature, 
provided the latter varies much from 60 F., the standard. 

The percentage of cream is determined by the cream 
gauge or creamometer ; the milk should be allowed to 
stand in the creamometer for at least eight to ten hours, 
and should be covered. 

A very high percentage of cream tends to lower the 
specific gravity theoretically ; but when a milk is rich in 
fat it is also rich in solids not fat. 

An acid reaction, unless very slight, indicates souring 
of the milk or the addition of some preserving acid. A 
strongly alkaline reaction indicates the addition of some 
substance like chalk, sodium carbonate, etc., to increase 
the specific gravity. Such addition is verified by an ex- 
cess of total solids, and by the effervescence of the latter 
after drying upon the addition of a drop or two of 
hydrochloric acid. 



484 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 

To determine the percentage of total solids: Weigh a 
small evaporating dish, preferably platinum, add 5 to 10 
c.c. of milk, and weigh dish and milk to get weight of 
milk ; evaporate to dryiiess over a water-bath, completing 
the drying in a water-oven until there is no further loss 
of weight ; weigh dish and contents (total solids) ; sub- 
tract weight of dish, multiply by 100, and divide by 
weight of milk. Result : the percentage of total solids. 

To determine the percentage of ash: Ignite the total 
solids over a naked flame until all black specks have 
disappeared ; cool and weigh ; multiply weight of ash by 
100, and divide by weight of milk. Result : percentage 
of ash. 

To determine the percentage of fats: Proceed as above 
with 10 c.c. of milk, and evaporate until the residue is a 
tenacious pulp, extinguish the flame, fill the dish half- 
full of ether, stir and triturate the residue thoroughly with 
a glass rod, decant the ether and filter it through a small 
filter-paper, reserving the filtrate ; add more ether to the 
residue, stir and triturate as before, and filter, repeating 
the process three times or till the residue is perfectly 
white ; wash the filter-paper well with ether, collect the 
latter and add to the preceding filtrate ; evaporate the 
ether filtrate until only the fat remains and its weight is 
constant ; weigh the fat, multiply by 100, and divide by 
the weight of the milk. Result : percentage of fat. 

This method when carefully performed is said to be 
fully as accurate as the extraction (Soxhlet) method, and 
does not require the more expensive apparatus of the 
latter. If the residue from which the fat has been ex- 
hausted is carefully dried on a water-bath at 100 C. 
until there is no further loss by evaporation, its weight 
will be that of the " solids not fat " of the milk. 



TESTS FOR MILK. 



485 



Centrifugal method : Where a centrifuge is available for 
use, the following method for the fat-determination will 



FIG. 96. 



Bottle for determining percentage of fat by means of the centrifuge. 

be found to give results that are probably accurate to 
within 0.2 per cent, of fat : 

Two solutions are necessary: 1. Fusel oil, 37 c.c. ; 



486 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 



c.c. 



FIG. 97. 





wood or methyl alcohol, 13 c.c. ; hydrochloric acid, 50 
2. Sulphuric acid, sp. gr. 1.83. 

Into the milk bottle (Fig. 96), which is 
made to fit the centrifuge and which has a 
long, graduated neck, 5 c.c. of the milk to be 
examined are introduced by means of a pip- 
ette, and to this 1 c.c. of the alcohol solution 
(1) is added and the mixture well shaken by 
hand. The sulphuric acid is then added, 
little by little, with frequent shaking, until 
the bottle is filled to the topmost (zero) grad- 
uation. It is then rapidly whirled in the 
centrifuge until only the fat occupies the neck 
as a clear layer, when the actual percentage 
can be read from the graduations. When the 
milk is very rich i. e., containing more than 
5 per cent, of fat it will be necessary to di- 
lute the milk w r ith an equal volume of water, 
a ml then to multiply the result by 2. Like- 
wise, cream should be diluted with 4 parts of 
water and the result multiplied by 5. The 
same principle is employed in the Babcock 
and other cream-testers now largely used by 
dairymen, etc. 

A somewhat simpler method has been de- 
vised by Prof. Meeker, in which the only re- 
agent, is sulphuric acid, sp. gr. 1.83, and a 
tube of different form (Fig. 97) is used. Into 
this tube the milk is introduced from a pipette 
holding exactly 8.8 c.c., and having a long 
delivery end to carry the milk beyond the 
constricted and graduated portion. The sul- 
phuric acid is then added in equal volume, 



TESTS FOR FAT IN MILK. 487 

filling the tube to the zero mark, after which the stopper 
is inserted and the milk and acid thoroughly mixed by 
inverting and reinverting the tube. This breaks up the 
casein of the milk and frees the fat, which will collect in 
the graduated part when the tube is whirled in the centri- 
fuge. Owing to cooling, there may be a slight contrac- 
tion of the liquid, so that the top may be slightly below 
the zero mark, but the percentage of fat is indicated by the 
difference of the reading of its upper and lower limits. 
On this account it is well to again warm the milk by im- 
mersing the tube in hot water, and to give a second 
whirling for but a moment or two. 

The extraction method: 1 "About 10 grammes of milk 
are carefully weighed in a glass or porcelain capsule and 
mixed with about 10 grammes of freshly ignited sand, 
pumice-stone, or asbestos, and evaporated to dryness on a 
water-bath. The dish with its contents is then finely 
pulverized and transferred to a Soxhlet extraction appa- 
ratus and the fat extracted with ether for at least five 
hours. The ether extract of the fat is then evaporated to 
dryness on a water-bath and the residue dried to constant 
weight (at 100 C.) and weighed. The increased weight 
of the flask (of the Soxhlet apparatus) will represent the 
fat in the 10 grammes of milk." 

A Soxhlet apparatus is so constructed that a quantity 
of ether is repeatedly evaporated and condensed in it 
without loss, the condensed ether being made to percolate 
through substances placed in the upper part of the appa- 
ratus and to extract therefrom soluble matters, such as fat, 
which are collected in a small flask below, and from 
which the ether can finally be evaporated. 

Test for annotto : A percentage of cream considerably 
lower than the color of the milk would indicate justifies 

1 Bergey's Handbook of Practical Hygiene, p. 129. 



488 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 

the suspicion that some coloring-matter has been used. 
This is frequently annotto. 

Coagulate one ounce of milk with a few drops of acetic 
acid and heat ; strain, and press out the excess of liquid 
from the curd ; triturate the curd in a mortar or disji with 
ether, decant the ether and add to it 10 c.c. of a 1 per cent, 
solution of caustic soda ; shake, and allow to separate ; 
pour off the upper layer into a porcelain dish, put in two 
small disks or strips of filter-paper ; evaporate gently : 
annotto will dye the disks an orange or buff color. 
Moisten one disk with dilute solution of sodium carbonate 
to fix the color ; touch the other disk with a drop of stan- 
nous chloride : annotto will give a rich pink color. This 
test is sensitive to 1 part of annotto in 1000 of milk, and 
with milk in any condition. 

Test for bone acid: Upon igniting the total solids, 
boric acid or boron gives a greenish tinge to flame. 
Place in a porcelain dish 5 c.c. of milk, 1 drop of 
strong hydrochloric acid, and 2 drops of a saturated 
tincture of turmeric. Dry on a water-bath, remove as 
soon as dry ; cool, and add 1 drop of ammonia on a 
glass rod. A slaty-blue color, changing to green, is given 
if borax is present. This test will show y^V ff g ra i n f 
borax. Less will give the green color, but not the blue. 

Test for salicylic acid and salicylates (Bergey) : Dilute 
the milk (100 c.c.) with an equal bulk of distilled water 
at 60 C. ; precipitate with 8 drops of acetic acid and 8 
drops of a solution of mercuric oxide in nitric acid ; shake 
and filter. To the filtrate add 50 c.c. of ether, which 
takes up the salicylic acid ; decant, and filter the super- 
natant ether. Evaporate this filtrate nearly to dryness, 
and add a few drops of highly diluted neutral ferric 
chloride. A violet color indicates the presence of salicylic 
acid, the depth of color increasing with the amount. 



TEST FOR FORMALDEHYDE. 489 

To test for salicylic acid in butter, it is first treated 
with sodium carbonate and the homogeneous mixture 
acidulated with sulphuric acid, and then shaken with a 
mixture of equal parts of ether and petroleum ether, after 
which the supernatant ether is filtered off and treated as 
above. 

Test for formaldehyde (Bergey) : Add an equal volume 
of water to the milk or butter to be tested, place in a flask 
on a steam-bath and distil over about one-fourth the total 
volume. Treat 10 c.c. of the distillate with 2 drops 
of ammoniacal silver solution (made by dissolving 1 
gramme of silver nitrate in 30 c.c. of distilled water 
and adding ammonia until the precipitate that first ap- 
pears is redissolved, then diluting to 50 c.c. with 
water). If formaldehyde is present, it causes a black cloud 
in the distillate after standing for several hours in the dark. 

Harrington gives the following test among others : " Mix 
in a porcelain dish 10 c.c. each of milk and hydrochloric 
acid (sp. gr. 1.2) and 1 drop of ferric chloride solution. 
Heat and stir vigorously. If formalin has been added, a 
violet color will appear before the boiling-point has been 
reached, varying in intensity according to the amount 
present. This process is exceedingly delicate and will 
detect 1 part in 500,000 in the fresh condition." * 

According to Hehner, " no formaldehyde could be de- 
tected at the end of a week in a sample (of milk) to which 
had been added 1 part in 100,000; after two weeks none 
could be detected in a sample of 1 part in 50,000 ; and 
after three weeks only a faint trace could be detected in a 
sample of 1 part in 25,000." 2 

Butter and Oleomargarine. Pure butter should have 
good taste, odor, and color ; it should not be rancid, and 

1 For other tests for formaldehyde, see Harrington, pp. 108, 109, and 
Leffmann and Sevan's Food Analysis, pp. 220-222. 

2 Leflfmann and Bevan, loc. cit. 



490 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 



should not contain too much water or salt, nor should it 
have any added coloring-matter. The average composi- 
tion should be about as follows : fat, 82 per cent. ; casein, 
2 per cent, (not over 3 per cent.) ; ash or salts, 2 per 
cent. ; water, 13 per cent. Butter fat is a compound of 
glycerin with certain fatty acids, some of them volatile 
and soluble in hot water, others non-volatile and insoluble 
in hot water. 

Oleomargarine consists of ordinary animal or vegetable 
fats, melted, strained, cooled with ice, worked up with 
milk, colored, and salted. The fats are usually beef or 
mutton fat, lard, or cotton-seed, palm, or cocoanut oil. If 
care and cleanliness are observed in the manufacture, oleo- 
margarine is not harmful or innutritions, but it should not 
be sold as butter. 

Fraud is to be detected by observing the differ- 
ence in composition and properties of the fats. For 
instance : 



BUTTER FAT. 

1. The specific gravity is very 
rarely below 910, never below 909.8. 

2. The soluble, volatile fatty 
acids average between 6 and 7 per 
cent., never below 4.5 per cent. 

3. The insoluble fatty acids form 
about 88 per cent, of the total 
weight of butter fat. 

4. The melting-point of the fat 
varies from 86 to 94 F. ; is usu- 
ally from 88 to 90 F. 

5. Is readily and completely solu- 
ble in ether. 

6. Under the microscope pure 
butter fat consists of a collection 
of small oil globules, with an oc- 
casional large one. 

7. No crystals, except when the 
fat has been melted. 



BEEF FAT, ETC. 

1. Beef fat, etc., is never above 
904.5. 

2. Earely more than i per cent., 
never above J per cent. 

3. Generally about 95 per cent. 



4. Earely, if ever, above 82 F. 



5. Less so and leaves a residue. 

6. The contours of the small oil 
globules are less distinct, and the 
larger ones are more numerous aud 
irregular in size. 

7. Crystals of the non-volatile 
acids are often seen. 



TESTS FOE BUTTER AND OLEOMARGARINE. 491 

To determine the specific gravity of butter fat: Melt 
a quantity of the butter in a beaker in a water-bath at 
about 150 F. When the fat is perfectly clear and trans- 
parent, carefully decant the fat from the lower stratum 
of water, curd, and salt into a fine filter ; collect the 
filtrate and pour into a specific gravity bottle, which has 
been previously weighed, both when empty and when 
filled with distilled water at 100 F. See that the bottle 
is exactly full of the fat, wipe clean, and weigh when the 
temperature is as near 100 F. as possible, because solidi- 
fication soon begins below this temperature. Subtract the 
weight of the bottle, divide by the weight of the water 
which the bottle contains, and multiply by 1000 ; the 
result is the specific gravity. 

To find the melting-point : Pour a little melted fat into 
a small test-tube (2" X \"} and cool. Partly fill two 
beakers of unequal size with cold water ; place the test- 
tube in the smaller (taking care to allow no water to mix 
with the fat), and the smaller in the larger, and gently 
heat the outer beaker. Suspend a thermometer in the 
smaller, near the test-tube, and note the temperature when 
the fat begins to rnelt ; this is the melting-point. 

To determine the percentage of insoluble (non-volatile) 
fatty acids : To 6 grammes o/ butter fat add 50 c.c. of 
alcohol containing 2 grammes of caustic potash (KHO) 
and boil gently for fifteen or twenty minutes to saponify 
the fat. Dissolve the soaps thus formed in 150 to 200 
c.c. of water, and decompose with about 25 c.c. of dilute 
hydrochloric acid. The separated fatty acids are poured 
upon a weighed filter-paper, washed with 2 litres of 
boiling water, dried at 95 to 98 C. and then weighed. 
The weight of these insoluble fatty acids should not be 
over 90 per cent, of the weight of the butter fat. 



492 THE EXAMINATION OF WATER, AIR, AND FOOD. 

Flour and Bread. Wheat Flour. Characteristics : 
almost perfectly white, smooth and free from grit ; no 
mouldy or unpleasant odor ; cohesive when lightly com- 
pressed ; no signs of parasites under the microscope ; water 
less than 18 per cent.; ash less than 2 per cent. 

" The roller process yields a slightly rough flour, and 
the hard winter wheat may give a yellowish tinge. Good 
flour is slightly acid to test-paper, but not to the taste, and 
an acidity that may be recognized by the senses means a 
change. Acid flour means sour bread, and any disagree- 
able taste or odor indicates bad flour. When boiling 
water is poured on a little flour, there should arise no 
odor but that of freshly ground wheat." 1 

To determine the percentage of water and ash : In a 
weighed platinum (or porcelain) dish place about 50 
grammes of flour, weigh, and dry over a water-bath for 
an hour or so ; then complete the evaporation in a water- 
oven until there is no further loss of weight ; weigh, sub- 
tract this weight, less the weight of the dish, from the 
original weight of the flour. Multiply the remainder by 
100 and divide by the original weight of the flour. The 
result is the percentage of water. Then ignite the dried 
flour in the dish and incinerate till there are no longer 
any black particles and only the ash remains ; cool, weigh, 
subtract weight of dish, multiply the remainder by 100, 
and divide by the original weight of the flour. The 
result is the percentage of ash. 

To determine the percentage of gluten : By means of a 
glass rod mix a weighed quantity of flour with a little dis- 
tilled water into a stiff dough ; then repeatedly wash away 
the starch and soluble constituents, kneading the dough 

1 Colonel A. A. Woodhull, M. D., article on "Military Hygiene," in 
The Reference Handbook of the Medical Sciences. 



TESTS FOR FLOUR AND BREAD. 493 

with the rod or fingers, and continuing until the wash- 
water comes away clear ; the gluten and a small amount 
of fat and salt remain. Spread on a weighed dish or 
crucible lid, dry in a water-oven, and weigh ; multiply by 
100 and divide by the original weight of the flour. The 
result is the approximate percentage of gluten. The gluten 
should pull out into long threads ; otherwise, it is poor. 

" The relative strength and elasticity of the gluten, which 
are determined comparatively by manipulating a small 
quantity of flour intimately mixed with half its weight 
of water, make a standard for comparison. This is known 
as the dough-test, and its failure shows weak flour, from 
poor wheat or imperfect milling and defective gluten." 1 

An excess of water impairs the keeping quality and 
lessens the amount of nutriment in the flour. An excess 
of ash indicates the addition of mineral substances. A 
deficiency of gluten may also indicate that the flour is 
not pure wheat flour. Parasites and fungi are especially 
likely to be found in old, damp, or inferior flour. 

To test for mineral substances : Shake a little flour in a 
test-tube with some chloroform, and allow it to stand for 
a few minutes. The flour floats and any mineral matter 
sinks to the bottom, when it can be removed with a 
pipette and examined under a microscope. 

Wheat Bread. Characteristics : fairly dry, light, and 
spongy ; clean and nearly white ; of pleasant taste ; not 
sodden, acid, or musty ; ash not over 3 per cent.; no para- 
sites or mouldiness ; no flour other than wheat ; but little, 
if any, alum ; no copper sulphate. 

Test for alum: Add 5 c.c. of a 5 per cent, tincture of 
logwood and 5 c.c. of a 15 per cent, solution of ammonium 
carbonate to 25 c.c. of water ; soak a crumb of the bread 

* Colonel A. A. Woodhull, M. D., loc. cit. 



494 THE EXAMINATION OF AIR, WATER, AND FOOD. 

in this for a few minutes ; drain and gently dry : alum 
is indicated by a violet or lavender color ; its absence by 
a dirty-brown color on drying. 

. Test for copper sulphate: Draw a glass rod that has 
been dipped in a solution of potassium ferrocyanide across 
a cut slice of the bread : copper is indicated by a brown- 
ish-red streak. 

Test for ergot in flour or bread : Add liquor potassae ; 
a distinct herring-like odor (due to propylamine) is appre- 
ciable if ergot be present. 

An excess of water, an unnatural whiteness, and a low 
percentage of ash in bread indicate the addition of rice. 
Potatoes give an increased percentage of water and an 
alkaline ash. 

For further tests and details in work pertaining to a laboratory of 
hygiene the reader is referred to Fox's Examination of Food, Air, and 
Water ; Kenwood's Hygienic Laboratory ; Bergey's Handbook of Prac- 
tical Hygiene ; Harrington's Practical Hygiene ; Leflfrnann and Sevan's 
Food Analysis ; and Thresh's A Simple Method of Water Analysis. In 
the latter the author has devised a series of tests requiring the simplest 
possible apparatus and a group of solid reagents which can be prepared 
in tabloid form, each piece containing exactly the quantity required for 
the respective tests. The entire outfit, which can be had of Burroughs, 
Wellcome & Co. or their agents, can be packed in comparatively small 
space and is easily transported from place to place, thus enabling the 
investigator to make his tests at or near the source of supply. 



INDEX. 



A. 

ABSORPTION of foods, 236 
Accessory foods, 248 
Acetylene gas, 90 
Adulterants and preservatives, 

271 

Adulteration of foods, 271 
Air, 72 

bacteria in, 78 
collection of, 469 

currents, determination of ve- 
locity of, 116 
direction of, 120-123 

diseases caused by impure, 95 

distribution of, 1 18 

examination of, 469 

nitration of, 112 

purification by fire, 106 

saturation of, 83 
Air-propeller, 125 
Air-supply, conduits for, 112 

source of, 112, 140 
Alcohol, 277 

indications for use and absten- 
tion, 277-280 

relation of, to food, 277 
Alexins, 60 
Alum in bread, test for, 493 

use of, in purifying water, 189, 

194, 202 

Amboceptors, Ehrlich's, 65 
Ammonia, "albuminoid," in 
water, 221 

"free," in water, 220 

in air, 77 

test for free and albuminoid, 

481 
Amylopsin, action of, 235 



Anderson's process for purifying 

water, 190 
Anemometer, 117 
Annotto, test for, in milk, 487 
Antigens, 59 
Antimicrobin, 70 
Antiseptics, 336 
Antitoxins, 60 

methods of preparing, 66 

statistics of use of, 69 

theory of, 60 
Apparatus for lighting, 88 

for steam disinfecting, 341 
Aqueous vapors, 76, 83 
Area drained by wells, 166, 171 
Argon, 75 
Army canteen, 450 

medical officers, duties of, 433, 
451 

rations, 442-444 
Artesian-water, 155, 167 
Artesian- wells, 167 
Artificial ventilation, 113, 124 
Ashes, 388 
Ashley biological reduction tank, 

425 

Aspiration, 115 
Atavism, 290 
Atmosphere, 72 

composition of, 72 

impurities in, 77 

of mines, 95 

of ships, 95 

weight of, 72 

Atmospheric contamination, ex- 
tent of, 107 
index of, 107 
Autogenetic diseases, causes of, 

32 

495 



496 



INDEX. 



B. 

BACILLI, 40 

Bacillus, the colon, in water, 218 
Backus heater, 135 
Bacteria as an index of purity of 
filtered water, 202 

atypical forms of, 40 

classification of, 40, 41 

collection of, in air, 469 

definition of, 36 

differentiation of, 46, 47 

discovery of, 37 

in air, 78 

involution forms of, 40 

isolation of different species of, 
42 

parasitic, 50 
in sewer-gas, 91 

pathogenic, 50 

requirements of, 38 

saprophytic, 49 
Bacterial examination of air, 469 

of water, 218 
Bacteriology, 36 
Bacterioproteins, 59 
Barracks, construction and ar- 
rangement of, 435 
Bathing, 299 

rules for, 300 

sea-, 300 

time of, 300 
Baths, cold, 300 

public, 302 

Russian, 302 

Turkish, 302 

warm, 302 

Beans, nutritive value of, 269 
Bedding, disinfection of, 360 
Beef, 260 

Beef-fat, characteristics of, 490 
Beef-tea as a stimulant, 275 

whole, recipe for, 265 
Berkfeldt filter, 211 
Beverages, 281 

carbon dioxide in, 282 

sanitary precautions concern- 
ing, 282 

Bichloride of mercury as a disin- 
fectant, 345 
Bile, action of, 235, 236 



Biologic action in soil, 162 
Blackboards, school, 323 
Boiling, disinfection by, 362 
Boric acid, test for, in milk, 

488 
Bread, 267 

test for alum in, 493 

for copper sulphate in, 494 
for ergot in, 494 
Broiling, 264 
Broths, 264 

Buchner, humeral theory of, 60 
Burial permits, 459 
Butter, 258 

examination of, 489 
Butter-fat, characteristics of, 490 
Buttermilk, 252 

c. 

CALCIUM hydrate, 347 
Camp-hospitals, 436, 448 
Camps of detention, 383 
diseases of, 442 
disposal of excreta in, 446 
location of, 434 
pollution of, 438 
of probation, 383 
of refuge, 383 
typhoid fever in, 437, 441 
water-supply of, 442 
Canteen, army, advantages of, 

450 
Carbohydrates, functions of, 225, 

227, 242 
sources of, 242 
Carbolic acid as a disinfectant, 

346 

Carbon dioxide, 75 
effects of, 80 
excretion of, 81 
in beverages, 282 
in soil-air, 93 
normal proportion of, 75 
poisoning by, 101 
Pettenkofer's test for, 472 
tests for, 470 
monoxide from stoves, 133 

poisoning by, 101 
proportion of, to nitrogen in 
diet, 240 \J 



INDEX. 



497 



Carbonic acid. See Carbon di- 
oxide. 

Care of school-houses, 326 
Carpets, etc., disinfection of, 360 
Census, the, 456 

reports, U. S., statistics from, 

23 

Cereals, 266 
Cesspools, dangers of, 390 

disinfection of, 391 
Cheese, 258 
Chemical disinfectants, 344 

treatment of sewage, 417 

of water, 188 
Chloride of zinc, 347 
Chlorides in water, test for, 474 
Chlorinated lime, 344 

soda, 344 
Chlorine, 348 

or chlorides in water, 220, 474 

test for, 474 

Cisterns for rain-water, 158 
Clark's process for purifying 

water, 188 
Cloak-rooms in school-houses, 

325 
Closets, earth-, 390 

pail-, 390 

water-, 405 
Clothing, 303 

advantages of woollen, 304 

conveyance of infection by, 
308 

disinfection of, 359, 360 

influence of, upon health, 307 

materials used for, 303 

of soldiers, 445, 446 

purpose of, 303 

relative absorption of heat by, 
308 

sophistication of, 307 

tests for materials for, 306 
Coal, products of combustion of, 

86 
Coal-gas, composition of, 102 

poisoning by, 103 

products of combustion of, 87, 

88 

Coffee, 275 

Cold baths, effects of, 300 
Colony, a bacterial, 43 

32 



Combustion products, 86 

influence upon health of, 100 
specific gravity of, 88 

Comparative mortality figure, 
464 

Condensed rations, 443 

Condiments, 248 

Congenital diseases, 290 

Consanguineous marriages, ob- 
jections to, 292 

Construction and care of wells, 

169 
of school-houses, 323 

Contact beds for sewage, 422 

Contagion, nature of, 52 

Contagious diseases, definition of, 

32 
in schools, 328, 333 

Contamination of atmosphere, 
extent of, 107 

Convected heat, 129 

Cooking, object of, 237, 263 
thoroughness of, 237, 263 
of vegetables, 269 

Copper sulphate, test for, in 

bread, 494 
in water, 480 

Com, 266 

Corrosive sublimate as a disin- 
fectant, 345 

Cotton in clothing, 305 

Cowls, ventilating, 114, 115 

"Cramps," cause of, when bath- 
ing, 300 

Cream, digestibility of, 251 

Creolin, 347 

"Crowd poison," 84 
effects of, 99 

Cubic space in ventilation, 111 

Culture-media, preparation of, 45 
reaction of, 41 
temperature of, 41 

D. 

DEATH-CERTIFICATE, standard. 

461 
Death-rates, 460, 464 

daily or weekly, 461 

of cities, 461 

showing sanitary gain, 23 



498 



INDEX. 



Death-rates, standard, 464 

zymotic, 463 
Deep water, 155, 167 

Wells, 167 
Deodorants, 336 
Detention at ports of entry, 373 

camps of. 383 

period of, in quarantine, 373, 

380, 381 

Devices for ventilation, 118 
Dietetic rules, 237 
Dietetics, 228 

aesthetic factors in, 228 
Differentiation of bacteria, 46, 

47 
Diffusion, 113 

law of, 74 

rate of, 113 
Digestion, hydrolysis in, 230 

gastric, 233 

intestinal, 234, 235 

physiology of, 229 

salivary, 231 
Diphtheria antitoxin, method of 

preparing, 66 
Direct radiation, 145 
Direct-indirect radiation, 146 
Diseases affecting animals used 
for food, 261 

bacterial, immune-therapy in, 
58 

classification of, 32 

congenital, 289 

definitions of, 31, 32 

and causes of autogenetic, 
32 

due to impure air, 95 

drinking-water, 175, 181 
to respiratory vitiation, 99 

incubation periods of, 330 

infectious, in schools, 328-333 

inherited, 289 

methods of combating, 290 

study of, 452 

transmissible by heredity, 291 
Disinfectant, definition of, 335 

application of, in quarantine 

work, 378 
Disinfectants, chemical, 344, 367 

comparative table of, 358 

gaseous, 343 



Disinfectants, mechanical, 339 

physical, 362 

physiological, 339 

thermal, 339 
Disinfecting apparatus, steam, 

341 
Disinfection, 33, 335 

by dry heat, 343 

by fire, 339 

by formaldehyde, 351 

by hot water, 342, 362 

by steam, 339 

efficacy of, 337 

evidence as to, 338 

final, of rooms, 360 

in the sick-room, 359 

of bedding, 360 

of carpets, etc., 360 

of cesspools, 391 

of clothing, 359, 360 

of excreta, 345, 346, 358 

of infectious cases, 358 

of rooms, 361 

of school-houses, 325 

of spores, 338 

of vessels in quarantine, 377- 
380 

personal, 359 

Schering's method of, 353 

thoroughness of, 337 

Trillat's method of, 352 
Disinfector, duties of a, 336 
Distillation of drinking-water, 

204, 205 

Distribution of air, 118 
Domestic purification of water, 

202 

Drinking-water, distillation of, 
204, 205 

examination of, 216 

infection by, 172 

necessity for boiling, 211 
Drip-safes, 404 

Dry heat, disinfection by, 343 
Duration of life, mean, 466 
probable, 466 

of school work, 315, 316 
Dust, influence of, in air, 96, 97 
Duties of army medical officers, 

433, 451 
Duty of physicians, 27 



INDEX. 



499 



E. 

EARTH-CLOSETS, 391 

peat in, use of, 392 
Economy in heating, 129 
Eggs, value of, as a food, 259 
Ehrlich's lateral chain theory, 63 
Ejector sewerage system, 390 
Environment, influence of, 35 
on predisposed constitutions, 

290 

Enzymes, action of, 229 
characteristics of, 230 
digestive, 229 
of vegetable origin, 238 
Ergot, test for, in bread, 494 
Estimation of radiating surfaces, 

150 

Examination of air, 469 
of butter, 490 
of drinking-water, 216, 464 
of flour, 492 
of food, 483 
of milk, 483 

Excreta, disinfection of, 345, 346 
disposal of, in camps, 448, 449 
Exercise, 293 

amount necessary, 298 

effect upon brain development, 

297 
upon digestive functions, 

297 

upon excretion, 295 
upon heart and circulation, 

296 

upon heat production, 296 
upon muscles, 294 
upon respiratory organs and 

functions, 294 
importance of, 293 
Exhaust system, 126 
Exhaustion theory of Pasteur, 59 
Expectant attention, danger of, 

284 

Expectation of life, 466 
External ventilation, 105 
Eye-strain, 318 

F. 

FACTORS of ventilation, 107 
Fans, ventilating, 124, 125 



Farr, Dr. Wm., 20 

Fatigue, causes of, 298 

Fats, constructive property of, 

244, 245 

digestibility of, 246 
functions of, 225, 227, 244 
properties of butter- and beef-, 

490 

sources of, 243 
to determine specific gravity 

of, 491 
melting-point of butter-, 491 

Fatty acids, to determine insol- 
uble or non-volatile, 491 

Filter-beds, plan of, 192 

Filters, action of sand-, 192 
cleansing of sand-, 201 
construction of sand-, 195 
functions of sediment layer in, 

193 

house-, 207 
material used in sand-, 197 

Filtration, 191 
of air, 112 
of rain-water, 157 
of sewage, 411 
rate of, 201 

regulation of, 195 

Fire, disinfection by, 339 

Fish, 261 

Fixtures, location of house-, 398 
traps of house-, 398 

Flies as carriers of infection, 439 

Floor space in ventilation, 111 

Flour, characteristics of wheat-, 

492 

test for minerals in, 493 
to determine the ash in, 492 
gluten in, 492 
water in, 492 

Flues, hot-air, size of, 141 

Flush tank, Field's siphon, 414 

Food, 224 

amount necessary for life and 

health, 239 
cooking of, 237 
definition of, 224 
functions of, 224 
of the soldier, 442, 444 

Food-principles, classification of, 
225 



500 



INDEX. 



Food-principles, properties of, 
227 

use of, 225 

Food-relationship in diet, 240 
Food-salts, function of, 247 

sources of, 247 
Foods, absorption of, 236 

accessory, 248 

adulteration of, 271 

relative value of, 273 

use of preservatives in, 271 
Forbes sterilizer, 205 

advantages of, 206 
Forces of ventilation, 113 
Formaldehyde, 351, 364 

as a deodorant, 357 

disinfection by, 351 

methods of using, 352 

production from methyl al- 
cohol, 353 

regenerators for vaporizing, 
354, 355 

solutions of, 351 

test for, in milk, 489 

with permanganate of potash, 

357 

Formalin, 351 
Formic aldehyde, 351 
Formula for problems in ventila- 
tion, 110 

Free pratique, 381 
Fruits, 270 
Frying, 265 
Fumigation, 361, 363 
Furnaces, hot-air, 138 
Furs, 306 

G. 

GARBAGE, disposal of, 388 
Gaseous impurities, 79 
Gas-stoves and grates, 133 
Gastric digestion, 233 
Germ theory, 37, 50 

arguments for, 52 
Germicides, 335 
Gluten, to determine percentage 

of, 492 

Glycogen, 242 > 
Graphic charts of statistics, 456 
Grate fires, open, 130 



Grates, ventilating, 130, 131 
Grease trap, 401 
Grinding grain, effect of, 266 
Ground- water, 155, 161 

current of, 164 

purification of, 162 

H. 

HARD water, 158 
Hardness of water, 158, 222 
permanent, 158 
temporary, 158 
tests for, 478 

Headache in school children, 318 
Health, definition of, 31 

of soldiers, 431, 436 
Heat, air-movement due to, 115 
convected, 129 
distribution of, 138, 143 
radiant, 128 
relative absorption by clothing, 

308 

transmission of, 143 
Heating by hot air, 138 
by hot water, 144 
by steam, 145 
Heredity, definition of, 286 
importance of observing laws 

of, 287 
Hippocrates, hygienic rules of, 

19 
Hospital ships, 449 

tent, the Munson, 449 
Hospitals, impurity of air in, 

110 

military, 436, 448 
Hot-air flues, shape of, 140 

size of, 141 
furnaces, 138 

air-supply of, 140 
combustion of fuel in, 141 
limitations of, 143 
location of, 140 
requirements of, 138, 139 
Hot water, disinfection by, 342, 

362 

heating, 143 
House-drainage, 393 
House-drains, 394 
air inlets to, 397 




INDEX. 



501 



House-drains, air inlets to, con- 
nection of, with sewer, 
390 

with soil-pipes, 396 
construction of, 396 

quarantine, 384 
House-filters, 207 

classification of, 209 

dangers of, 208 

materials for, 211-215 

requisites of, 208 

self -cleaning devices for, 211 
House-fixtures, connection of, to 

waste-pipes, 398 
House-warming, 128 
Human exhalations, effects of, 99 
Humidifier, 143 
Humidity of warmed air, 141- 

143 

Humoral theory, 60 
Hydrocarbon lamps, 89 
Hydrocyanic acid as an insecti- 
cide, 350 

Hydrogen dioxide as a disinfec- 
tant, 348 

peroxide as a disinfectant, 348 

sulphide, symptoms due to in- 
halation of, 103 
Hygiene, ancient, 20 

definition of, 17 

development of, as a science, 
20 

military, 431 

order of study of, 20 

personal, 283 

progress in, 21-25 

reasons for study of, 27-29 

school, 314 

scope of, 17-19 

I. 

ICE-WATER, abuse of, 215 

purity of, 215 
Illuminating agents, influence of, 

88 
Illuminating-gas, composition of, 

102 

poisoning by, 102 
Illumination, apparatus for, 89 
influence on health of, 88 



Immunity, theories of, 57-66 
Immuno-therapy, 65, 66 

in bacterial diseases, 58 
Impure air, diseases due to, 95 
water, diseases due to, 175, 181 
Impurities due to combustion, 

86 

due to respiration, etc., 79, 80 
gaseous, 79 
in air, 77 

mortality due to, 97 
Impurity of air in hospitals, 110 
Incubation, period of, 56 

of infectious diseases, 330 
Index of atmospheric contamina- 
tion, 107 

Indirect radiation, 145 
Infant mortality, causes of, 463 

rate of, 463 

Infection by drinking-water, 177 
conveyance of, by clothing, 

308 

by oysters and clams, 261 
Infectious diseases, causes of, 31 
disinfection of cases of, 358 
Inherited diseases, 289 
Inland quarantine, 382 
Inlets, fresh-air, to house drains, 

397 
ventilation, location of, 122 

size of, 122 
Inoculation, 51 
Inspection, quarantine, 373 
Intermittent filtration of sewage, 

399 

Internal ventilation, 106 
Intestinal digestion, 234, 236 
Involution-forms, causation of, 40 
Iron, effect of, in water, 176 
sulphate, 348 
test for, in water, 480 
Irrigation treatment of sewage, 
419 

K. 

KEFIR, 252 
Koch's postulates, 54 
Koumiss, 252 
Kresols, 346 

Kuhn formaldehyde generator, 
354, 356 



502 



INDEX. 



L. 

LABARRAQUE'S solution, 344 
Lake-water, 161 

Lateral chain theory of immun- 
ity, 63 
Lead in water, 177 

test for, 480 
Leather, 306 
Leguminous plants, food value 

of, 269 

Level of ground-water, 163 
Life-table, factors of, 466 
Life-tables, value of, 466 
Light, 309 

germicidal effect of, 310 

importance of an abundance 
of, 312 

influence of, upon health, 309 
upon metabolism, 312 

penetration of sun-, 310 

therapeutic effects of sun-, 311 
Lighting agents, influence of, 88 

increased by prismatic devices, 
312 

of school rooms, 315 
Lime, chloride of, as a disinfec- 
tant, 344 

chlorinated, as a disinfectant, 
344 

milk of, as a disinfectant, 347 
Linen in clothing, 305 
Location of school-houses, 325 

of ventilation inlets, 122 
outlets, 120 

of wells, 165, 170 
Loomis-Manning niters, 213 
Lysins, 65 

M. 

MALARIA and typhoid fever, 442 

Marriage, 288 

proper age for, 288 

Marriages, objections to consan- 
guineous, 292 

Mastication, value of, 232, 237 

Mean after-lifetime, 465 
age at death, 465 
duration of life, 465 

Meat, characteristics of good, 260 
composition of, 260 



Meats, cooking of, 263 

digestibility of various, 260 
diseased, 262 

Medical inspection in schools, 333 

Mercury, bichloride of, as a dis- 
infectant, 345 

Metchnikoff, theory of, 59 

Meters, water, 154 

Micrococci, varieties of, 41 

Military hospitals, 436, 448 
hygiene, 431 

importance of, 432 

Milk, 249 

as a cause of disease, 252 

as a source of infection, 253- 

256 

care and preparation of, 250 
characteristics of good, 257, 

483 

of lime, 347 
test for annotto in, 487 
for boric acid in, 488 
for formaldehyde in, 488 
for salicylic acid in, 488 
to determine the ash in, 484 
fats in, 484 
total solids in, 484 
typhoid fever due to, 254 
use of preservatives in, 257 

Milk-borne epidemics, character- 
istics of, 256 

Mines, atmosphere of, 95 

Moisture in warmed air, 142 

Morbidity rates, 465 

Mortality, cause of infant-, 463 
due to impurities in air, 97 
rate of infant-, 463 

Mortality-rate, typhoid, an index 
of water-purity, 180, 184-186 

Mortality-rates, 462 

Movement of heated air, 115 

Munson hospital tent, 449 

Mutton, 260 

N. 

NATURAL ventilation, 113 
Nervous diseases in school-chil- 
dren, 318 

Nessler's reagent, 457 
Nitrates in water, 221, 476 



INDEX. 



503 



Nitrates, test for, 476 
Nitrification of organic matters, 

221 
Nitrites in water, 221, 477 

tests for, 477 

Schuyten's, 478 
Nitrogen, 74 

proportion of, to carbon in 

diet, 240 
Nuts, 270 

0. 

OAT-MEAL, 266 

Objections to stoves, 129, 133 
Oil-stoves, 135 
Oleomargarine, 489 
Ophthalmia, contagious, in 

schools, 332 
Opsonic index, 62 
Opsonins, 62 
Organic excretion, 84 

matters in water, 221 
Outlets, location of ventilation, 

120 
Overwork, effects of, in school, 

312 
Oxygen, 74 

absorption of, 295 
Oysters, infection by, and clams, 

261 

P. 

PAIL-CLOSETS, 390 
Pancreatic digestion, 235 

juice, 235 
Paraform, 351 
Paraformaldehyde, 351 
Parasites, transmission of, by 

water, 180 

Parasitic bacteria, 50 
Pasteur filter, 208, 211 
Pathogenic bacteria, 50 
Peat, use of, in earth-closets, 392 
Pepsin, action of, 233 
Percolation of ground-water, 

162-164 
Perflation, 115 
Period of incubation, 56 
Permissible impurity in ajr, 107 
in soil ; 163 



Peroxide of hydrogen as a disin- 
fectant, 348 
Personal disinfection, 359 

hygiene, 283 
Petri dish, 43 
Pettenkofer's test for carbonic 

acid, 472 

Phagocytosis, theory of, 59 
Phosphates in water, 222 

test for, 480 

Physical examination of water, 
216 

training, aim of, 298 
Physiology of digestion, 229 
Play-grounds, 327 
Plenum system, 125, 149 
Plumbing for sewage, 393 
Pneumatic sewerage system, 390 
Pneumonia, infectiousness of, 26 
Poisson's formula, 454 
Pollution of well-water, 165, 170 
Population, actual increment of, 
457 

daily, 462 

estimation of, 457 

natural increment of, 457 

weekly, 462 
Pork, 260 

Portable steam radiator, 135 
Post-hospitals, 435 
Postulates of Koch, 54 
Precautions in sick-room, 358 
Predisposing conditions, 34 
Preparation of culture-media, 45 
Preservatives, adulterants and, 
273 

in milk, 257 

use of, in foods, 254 
Prismatic devices, increased 

lighting by, 312 
Probable duration of life, 465 
Probation, camps of, 383 
Products of combustion, 86 
Prophylactic infection, 70 

intoxication, 70 
Prophylaxis, 33 
Protection by vaccination, 385- 

387 
Proteid food, functions of, 225, 

227, 240 
spurces of, 24 1 



504 



INDEX. 



Protozoa as a cause of disease, 57 
Ptomains, 50 
public baths, 302 
Ptyalin, action of, 231 
Pumping, effect of excessive, on 

quality of water in wells, 166, 

167 

Pure food and drugs act, provi- 
sions of, 271 
Purification of air by fire, 106 

of atmosphere, 77 

of ground-water, 162 

of river-water, 159 

of sewage, 416 

of subsoil- or ground- water, 1 32 

of water, 182 

by chemical treatment, 188 
by filtration, 191 
by subsidence, 186 
domestic, 202 

Q. 

QUARANTINE, 368 

at Canadian and Mexican 

ports, 382 

conditions requiring, 373 
history of, 368, 369 
house, 384 
inland, 382 
laws, purpose of, 369 
local, 384 
origin of, 368-372 
original meaning of, 368 
railroad, 384 

regulations at ports of depart- 
ure, 370 
of entry, 373-375 

during voyage, 372 
school, 328 
stations, location of, 376 

requisites for, 376 
treatment of cargoes in, 377 

of passengers in, 377 

of vessels in, 377-381 
Quarantines, inspection of, 382 

R. 

RADIANT heat, 128 
Radiating surface, estimation of, 
150 



Radiation, direct, 145 

direct-indirect, 146 

indirect, 145 

Railroad quarantine, 384 
Rainfall, amount of, per acre, 

156 
Rain-water, 155, 156 

cisterns, 158 

conductors, 392 

filtration of, 157 

softness of, 158 
Rations, army, 442-444 
Raw vegetables, typhoid fever 

and, 269 

Receptors, Ehrlich's, 64 
Recruits, qualifications of, 432 
Refuge, camps of, 383 
Registers, size and locations of, 

141 
Registration area, 23 

records, importance of, 459 
Relation of water-supply to 

typhoid fever, 180 
Relative value of foods, 273 
Removal of sewage, 388 
Rennin, 234 
Respiration impurities, effect of, 

80 
Respiratory vitiation, diseases 

due to, 99 
Retention theory of Chauveau, 

59 
River- water, 159 

self-purification of, 159 
Roasting and broiling, 264 
Rooms, final disinfection of, 360 
Rubber, use of, as protective, 306 

S. 

SALICYLATES, test for, in milk, 

488 
Salicylic acid, test for, in milk, 

488 

Saliva, functions of, 232 
Salivary digestion, 231 
Salts, food-, functions of, 247 

sources of, 247 
Sand-filters, 192-202 
Sanitary cordon, 382 
Sanitation, 33 



INDEX. 



505 



Sanitation, improved, results due 

to, 21, 24 

Saprophytes, functions of, 48 
Schering's lamps, 352 

method of disinfection, 353 
Schizomycetes, 36 
School children, eye-strain in, 
318 

headache in, 318 
nervous diseases in, 318 
prevention of infection of, 

328 

spinal deformities in, 320 
teeth of, 334 
vaccination of, 332 
furniture, arrangement of, 321 
influence of, on health, 319 
hygiene, 314 
infirmaries, 331 
pathology, 315 
quarantine, 328 
rooms, lighting of, 322 
work, duration of, 315, 316 
School-houses, care of, 326 
cloak-rooms in, 325 
construction of, 323 
disinfection of, 325 
location of, 325 
ventilation of, 324 
warming of, 323 
water-supply of, 326 
Schools, contagious diseases in, 

328-330 

medical inspection in, 333 
Sea-bathing, 301 
Seats, arrangement of, in schools, 

321 

Sedimentation, 186 
Self-study, importance of, 284 
Septicaemia, definition of, 56 
"Septic-tank" system of sewage 

treatment, 420-425 
advantages of, 421, 427 
Sewage, chemical treatment of, 

417 

composition of, 389 
filtration of, 417 

intermittent, 418 
pail system of removal, 390 
purification of, 416 
removal of, 388 



SewageJ treatment of, by biolog- 
ical reduction tank, 425 
by electricity, 430 
by irrigation, 419 
by sub-irrigation, 419 
by the "septic-tank" sys- 
tem, 420 

ultimate disposal of, 416 
water-carriage of, 390 
Sewage-plumbing, 393 
requirements of, 394 
Sewage-pollution of water, 159, 

160 
Sewer, 411 

advantages of "separate," 413 
of "combined," 412 

shape of, 413 
construction of, 412 
"separate," 413 

specification for, 414 
ventilation of, 413, 415 
Sewerage, ejector system, 390 
pneumatic system, 390 
Shone system, 390 
Sewer-gas, 91 
bacteria in, 91 
composition of, 91 
influence of, on health, 104 
Shallow wells, 165 
Shone sewerage system, 390 
Sick-rates, 405 
Sick-room, care of, 358 
disinfection of, 359 
impurity of air in, 110 
precautions in, 358 
Silk in clothing, 305 
Size of ventilation inlets, 122 
Skimmed milk, 252 
Smead system of ventilation, 120, 

324 

Soda, chlorinated, 344 
Soil, 92 

bacteria in, 92 

limit of permissible impurity 

in, 163 

purifying action of, 159 
Soil-air, 91 

circulation of, 93 
composition of, 93 
influence of, on health, 103, 
104 



506 



INDEX. 



Soil-pipe, 394 

connection of, with house- 
drain, 396 

location and construction of, 
394 

testing of, 402 

ventilation of, 394, 397 
Soldier, clothing of, 445, 446 

food of, 442-445 
instruction of, in hygiene, 449 

work of, 449 

Soldiers, weights carried by, 445 
Solids, total, in water, 220 
Soups and broths, 264 
Source of air-supply, 112 
Sources of water-supply, 155 
Spinal deformities in school chil- 
dren, 319 
Spirilla, 40 
Spores, characteristics of, 39 

formation of, 39 
Springs, 155, 164 
Spring-water, 164, 169 

purity of, 165 
Statistical inquiry, principles of, 

453 
Stastistics showing sanitary gain, 

22,24 

Steam, disinfection by, 339, 362 
Steam-heating, 145 
Steapsin, action of, 236 
Sterilization, fractional, 44 

mechanical, 339 

methods of, 44 

of apparatus, 44 

of water by boiling, 205 
Sterilized milk, 257 
Sterilizer, Forbes', 205 
Sterilizers, 45, 203, 340, 341 
Stimulants, 274 

cautions in use of, 276 

classification of, 274 

function of, 274 

indications for use of, 274 
Stoves, 131 

gas-, 134 

gases from, 132 

objections to, 133, 134 

oil-, 135 

ventilating, 132 
Studies in school, order of, 316 



Sub-irrigation, 413 

Subsidence, water purification 

by, 186 

Subsoil- water, 155, 161 
Sulphate of iron, 348 
Sulphur dioxide, 349, 363 

fumigation with, 361 
Sulphuretted hydrogen, 103 
Sulphurous acid gas, 103, 349, 

363 
Surface-water, 155, 159 

T. 

TEA, 275 

and coffee, abuse of, 276 
Tents, hospital, 440 
Tests of well-water, 171 
Theory of antitoxins, 60 

of Biichner, 59 

of Chauveau, 59 

of Ehrlich, 63 

of Metchnikoff, 59 

of opsonins, 62 

of Pasteur, 59 

of phagocytosis, 59 
Total solids in water, 220 
Toxaemia, definition of, 56 
Toxalbumins, 50, 59 
Toxins, 50, 59 

Training, physical aim of, 298 
Transmission of heat, 139 
Trap, bell, 400 

Bower's, 400 

Cudell's, 400 

grease, 401 

McClellan's antisiphoning, 402 

S or siphon, 400 
Traps, 399 

seal of, 399, 401 

siphoning of, 401 

vent-pipes for, 401 
Trikresol, 318 
Trillat's method of disinfection 

352 

Trypsin, action of, 235 
Tuberculin, 253 

Tuberculosis, constructive value 
' of fat in, 245 

due to school-life, 319 

effect of dust in causing, 97 



INDEX. 



507 



Tuberculosis, effect of pure air 

in, 83 
influence of heredity on, 290 

of sunlight on, 310 
reduction in mortality rate of, 

23 

Turkish bath, 291 
Typhoid fever and malaria, 414 
and raw vegetables, 269 
as an index of water purity, 

184-186 

dissemination of, 437-441 
due to flies, 438 

to milk, 254 
epidemics of, 179 
in camps, 437-441 
incubation period of, 438, 441 
in rural populations, 172 
Tyrotoxicon, 253 



VACCINATION of school children, 
332 

protection by, 385-387 

statistics, 385-387 
Variety in food, necessity for, 

228, 248 
Vegetables, cooking of, 268, 269 

typhoid fever and raw, 269 
Velocity of air-currents, 116 
Ventilating apparatus, 118 

grates, 130, 131 

stoves, 132 
Ventilation and heating, 105 

artificial, 113, 124 

definition of, 106 

devices for, 1 18 

extent of, necessary, 109 

external, 105 

factors in, 107 

fans, 124, 125 

forces of, 113 

internal, 105 

natural, 113 

of school-houses, 323 

of sewers, 413, 415 

of soil-pipes, 394, 397 

of vent-pipes, 401 

of water-closets, 411 

practical points in, 126 



Ventilation problems, formula 

for, 110 

Smead system of, 120 
Ventilators, 115 
Vital resistance, value of, 34 
statistics, 452 
grouping in, 459 
influence of, 25 
methods of obtaining, 453 
numerical standard in, 454 

units in, 453 
probable error in, 455 
value of, 452 

of series in, 455 
variation in, 454 

W. 

WARMED air, humidity of, 141- 

143 

Warming of school-houses, 315 
Waste-pipes, 394 

connection of, to house-fix- 
tures, 398 
with soil-pipes, 398 
Water, 151 

ammonia in, 221 

bacterial examination of, 218 

boiling of, 205 

bottle for collecting samples 
of, 475 

chemical examination of, 219 
treatment of, 188 

chlorine in, 220 

classification of, 174, 223 

collection of, for analysis, 218 

cost of sickness due to pollu- 
ted, 183 

deep- or artesian-, 155, 167 

diseases caused by impurities 
in, 175-181 

double supply of, 153 

effects of impure, 181 

examination of, 216 

excretion of, 295 

filtration of, 191 

ground- or subsoil-, 155, 161 

hardness of, 159, 222 

lake-, 161 

lead in, 177 

level of subsoil-, 161 



508 



INDEX. 



Water meters, 154 
nitrates in, 222 
nitrites in, 222 
organic matters in, 221 
percolation of, 164 
phosphates in, 222 
physical examination of, 216 
purification of, 159, 162, 182 

in household, 202 
purity of subsoil-, 163 
quantity of, necessary, 151 
rain-, 155 
river-, 159 

sewage-pollution of, 159, 160 
sources of, 155 
spring-, 164-174 

purity of, 164-169 
storage of, 186 
surface-, 155, 159 
tests for physical properties, 

216, 474 

total solids in, 220 
transmission of parasites by, 

180 

Water-carriage of sewage, 390 
Water-closets, 405 

connection of, to water-supply, 

410 

hopper, 408, 409 
location of, 411 
pan, 406 

plug or plunger, 407, 408 
requisites for, 405 
siphon, 409 



Water-closets, valve, 406, 407 

ventilation of, 410 

washout, 406 

Water-purity, index of, 183-185 
Water-supply, infection of, 178 

of camps, 442 

of cities, 152, 175 

of school-houses, 326 

relation of, to typhoid fever, 

172, 173 

Weights carried by soldiers, 445 
Well-water, pollution of, 165 

testing of, 171 
Wells, area drained by, 166, 170 

construction and care of, 169 

deep or artesian, 167 

location of, 165, 170 

shallow, 165 
Welsbach light, 90 
Wheat, 266 

bread, characteristics of, 494 
Wheat-flour, 267 

characteristics of, 492 
Winds as ventilating agents, 113 
Woollen clothing, advantages of, 

304 
Wright, opsonic theory of, 62 

Z. 

ZINC chloride as a disinfectant, 

347 

Zooglea, 42 
Zymotic diseases, 51 






CM 
sfr 



cv 



o 

H 
P 
cd 
-P 
H 



W 

> 

"SB 
s s 

a d 

<D tiO 
H 3 
UO O 



cd o 

O T* 



<1) ;3 
CO C 

jS 1 ^ 

-p a) 

0) * 



W 



id 

0) 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




