
DGlon5^ 
-to 



Household Science 
Department 
Univ. of ^ 



L, : 

THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



VOL. II, 1910 
COMPLETE IN SIX NUMBERS 



BALTIMORE, MD. 

1910 



TX 
,1 




^JlOlfiCG 



TH E 

Journal y Home Economics 

Vol. II. FEBRUARY, iqio No. i 

EDITORIAL BOARD FOR 1910. 

EDITOR— Mrs. Mary H. Abkl. Rcjland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 
ASSOCIATE editors- 
Education, Miss Helex Ki.v.ve, Teachers College, Xew York City. 
Extension, Miss Anna Barrows, 98 Gainsboro St., Boston, Mass. 
Food and Xutritiox, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of 

Agriculture, Washington, D. C 
Textiles .and Clothing, Miss Abby L, Marlatt, University of 

Wisconsin, Madison, 

The House, ^Iiss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana, 

Administration, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, Xew York. 

The Family, Dr, Thomas D. Wood, Teachers College, Xew York 
City. 

Affiliated Societies, Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell 

University, Ithaca, X. Y, 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FebrL'arv, igio 

Page 

Boston Convention of" the Association 3 

Minutes of Council q 

Minutes of Annual Meeting 11 

Address of Welcome, President Lefavour i :, 

The Outlook in Home Economics, Ellen H Richards 17 

The Relation of Domestic Art to Fine Art Teaching, Grace G. 

Starbird 19 

Standardizing the Home, John R. Commons 23 

The Beginning of Education in Agriculture and Home Economics 

in Xorth America 2q 

Higher Education in Home Economics in Ireland, H. L. Knight . 32 

Progress in Nutrition, 1908-9, C. F. Langworthy 3:; 

Maria Daniell ' 73 

On the Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread 75 

Jelly Making 92 

Travelling Cooking Schools 95 

Editorials 96 

News from Institutions 100 

News from the Field 10:; 

Books and Literature 1 1 i 

Address List of Members 1 1 ^ 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 
A view of Mrs. Richards' Laboratory (Mass. Inst, of Tech.) . . . Frontispiece 

A Class-room, Northlands (Ireland) School of Housewifery 32 

Instruction in Cookery at Ursuline Convent, St. Joseph's, Sligo, 

Ireland 22 



THE 

Journal o/Home Economics 



Vol. II. FEBRUARY, 1910 No. i. 

BOSTON CONVENTION AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS 

ASSOCIATION. 

The second annual convention of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association was held in Boston, December 30, 1909, to 
January i, 19 10, as the guest of the New England Home Eco- 
nomics Association, Simmons College and Mass. Institute of Tech- 
nology. Some 150 delegates gathered for the convention, the 
majority naturally from New England and the East, but repre- 
sentatives as well from Quebec, Ontario, Wisconsin, Illinois, 
Minnesota, and South Carolina, with persons from almost every 
nearer center. In point of numbers this year's meeting showed a 
good increase on the attendance at the first convention held last 
year in Washington. 

The American Association for the Advancement of Science, with 
its score and more of affiliated societies, held its meeting in Boston 
during this week so that members of the Home Economics Asso- 
ciation enjoyed meeting workers in other fields and several of 
them were in turn able to contribute to the program of the Home 
Economics meetings. 

The program provided a first day devoted to preHminary 
meetings and excursions, and two days of general and sectional 
meetings.. On Thursday, December 30, the Executive Com- 
mittee held a meeting and prepared business for presentation 
before the Council of the Association which met in the afternoon 
at the Institute of Technology. The minutes of the Council 
(p. 9) show the action taken. 

The first general session of the convention was held at Simmons 
College, Friday morning, at 9:30. An address of welcome was 
made by President LeFavour, of Simmons College, and a response 
by Mrs. Richards, President of the Association. The topic of 
the morning session was The Sciences in Relation to Home 
Economics. Four papers were presented : (i.) Physics, Charles 
L. Norton, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; (2.) Chemistry, 



4 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

James F. Norris, Simmons College, Boston; (3.) Physiology, Percy 
G. Stiles, Simmons College, Boston; (4.) Bio-Chemistry, William 
J. Gies, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University. 
There was an audience of fully two hundred, and great interest 
was shown in the addresses as they proceeded. At the close of 
the program a brief business session was held at which the views 
of delegates regarding the annual meetings of the Association 

were asked. 

After the adjournment of the morning meeting the delegates 
proceeded to the Hotel Westminster, where the annual luncheon 
was served. The luncheon brought together a party of one 
hundred and twenty-five. Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean of 
Simmons College, and Chairman of the New England Home 
Economics Association, presided and brief toasts were responded 
to by several persons. Mrs. Richards spoke on Euthenics, the 
science of controllable environment, which is to be, she said, the 
next advance in the field of Home Economics. Miss Arnold, Miss 
Berry, Miss Kinney and Miss Van Rensselaer spoke on various 
phases of the work of the Association, taking as their subjects the 
four words forming the name of the Association. Dr. C. F. Lang- 
worthy presented an interesting statement of the activities of the 
government in fields related to the organization. Mrs. Abel 
responded to the toast, The Old Guard, and told of the begin- 
nings of the Home Economics movement twenty years ago in the 
New England Kitchen in Boston. After these addresses the roll 
of all present was called, and each responded with a word of 
greeting, thus at once promoting the mutual acquaintance of the 
delegates. 

At the close of the luncheon the delegates divided and attended 
three sectional meetings which had been arranged. There was a 
conference on High School Work and on Domestic Art, presided 
over by Miss Bevier; another for Domestic Science workers, in 
charge of Mrs. Richards; and a third for dietitians, arranged by 
Miss McCullough at the Massachusetts General Hospital. 

In the first section two topics were presented: Vocational 
Tendencies in Home Economics, and the Relation of Fine Art to 
Domestic Art. Mr. Weaver of the Practical Arts High School, 
Boston, Mrs. Hyde, of Newton Technical High School, and Mrs. 
Williams of New York City Schools, spoke on Vocational Tenden- 
cies. The Fine Art topic was treated in papers by Miss Starbird 



'9io] Boston Convention g 

of the Practical Arts High School, Boston, and Miss Stone of the 
Brooklme High School. 

In the Domestic Science session the topics considered were 
Economy of Materials in Domestic Science Teaching and the 
School Lunch. The first topic treated of efforts to utilize the 
cooked materials of Domestic Science teaching, either by sale for 
public use in school lunch rooms, or by their transfer to the homes 
of the pupils. Papers or addresses were given by the following- 

Mrs. Mary Pierce Van Zile, Kansas State Agricultural College- 
Miss Mary B. Van Arsdale, Teachers College, Columbia Univer- 
sity; Miss Mabel Campbell, New York City Public Schools 
Miss Helen G. Flagg, Trade School for Girls, Cambridge, Mass. 
Miss Hutchins, Hebrew Technical School for Girls, New York 
Miss Eunice C. Strong, Fairhaven, (Mass.), High School; Miss 
Ahce C. Boughton, Starr Centre House, Philadelphia, Pa. and 
Miss Gwendolin Stewart, (paper on School Dinners in London 
Schools). 

The dietitians held a meeting at the same time at the Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital which brought together some sixty 
interested persons and was the beginning of what is hoped may 
become a section for those interested in institutional management. 
The speakers were Miss McCullough of the Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Miss Nutting of Teachers College, Miss Dike, of Sim- 
mons College, and Dr. Boos of the Massachusetts General Hos- 
pital staff. 

Friday night a general session of all delegates had been arranged 
at the Institute of Technology with a discussion of Recent 
Progress in the Study of Nutrition in Relation to Dietetics. The 
speakers were. Professor Henry C. Sherman of Columbia Univer- 
sity, Professor Lafayette B. Mendel, of Yale University and Pro- 
fessor Otto Folin of Harvard University. This was one of the 
largest gatherings of the convention, the lecture hall being crowded 
with delegates and persons from the city. The keenest apprecia- 
tion was shown in the discussion of the latest advances in the 
science of nutrition. 

For the Saturday morning session the delegates met again at 
Simmons College. The first topic treated was College Courses in 
Home Economics. Dr. Susan M. Kinsburg of Simmons College 
presented a paper on the instruction in economics given at Sim- 
mons College, and a communication was received from Dr. A. C. 



6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

True, Director of the Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, representing a committee'of the Ameri- 
can Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Sta- 
tions which is preparing a report on a course of study in Home 
Economics in these colleges. Acting on Dr. True's suggestion, 
it was voted to appoint a committee representing the Home Eco- 
nomics Association to confer with Dr. True's committee. A third 
paper on the same general topic A Survey Course in Home Eco- 
nomics, by Dr. Edna D. Day of the University of Missouri, was 
read by title. 

The second topic on the morning program was Newer Profes- 
sional Fields. Miss Bertha Stevenson of the Laboratory- 
Kitchen Lunch Rooms, Boston, gave a paper on Food Standards 
in Lunch Room Management, and Miss Louise R. Hemenway of 
Boston, one on Market Inspection. The subject of Child- 
Nurses was referred to in a communication from Elmer E. 
Brown, U. S. Commissioner of Education, as a new vocational 
field of much promise. The suggestion of Dr. Brown called out 
so much interest that a committee was appointed to investigate 
the matter and report at the next meeting of the Association. 

The third topic of the general meeting was Scientific Papers 
and Theses. Under the heading. Apartment House Planning, 
a first hand study of several hundred New York City apartments, 
by Mrs. S. A. Saunders of the Department of Household Adminis- 
tration, Teachers College, was presented, and Dr. C. F. 
Langworthy presented a summary of an article on Progress in 
Nutrition during 1908-9. The remaining scientific articles, 
which were only read by title, were: Standardizing the 
Home, John R. Commons, Professor of Political Economy, Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin ; A Comparative Study of Losses in Cook- 
ing Beef, Mrs. Flora W.Green, University of Missouri; Acety- 
lene Gas Stoves, MacDonald Institute, Guelph, Ontario; A 
Day's Metabolism and The Setting of Gelatin, Department of 
Household Science, University of Toronto. 

At about eleven o'clock, the general meeting adjourned and 
while some of the delegates went to visit the Carnegie Nutrition 
Laboratory, two sectional meetings were formed, one devoted to 
Extension Work in Home Economics, the other to the Problems 
of Domestic Art teachers. 



19 jo] Boston Convention 7 

The Extension Program included a paper by Professor William 
D. Hurd of Massachusetts Agricultural College, on Relations of 
University and College Departments of Home Economics to the 
Outside Community; an address by Miss Van Rensselaer, and 
an informal discussion which helped make clear the obligations of 
Home Economics workers outside their institutions. 

The Domestic Art section considered the topic. Hygienic 
Dress and was presided over by Mrs. Mary Schenck Woolman 
of Teachers College. Papers were presented by Dr. Dudley A. 
Sargent of Cambridge, Mass., and by Dr. Eliza Ransom of Boston, 
and a significant discussion followed. 

After the adjournment of the morning meetings the delegates 
repaired to the lunch room of Simmons College as guests of the 
college at a cafeteria luncheon. Following this, they reassembled 
for the closing session of the convention. At this the president's 
annual address on The Outlook in Home Economics was 
delivered, and matters of business, including committee reports 
and the election of ofhcers, were transacted as reported elsewhere. 
Then the meeting adjourned and the second annual convention 
ended. 

One of the pleasant features of the convention was the cordial 
welcome given the delegates both by institutions and by private 
individuals. Simmons College, the Institute of Technology, and 
the Massachusetts General Hospital afforded meeting places, and 
a long list of institutions were especially opened for the visits of 
those interested. Mention should be made of the special arrange- 
ments made by the following institutions and establishments: 
Simmons College, Laboratories and Exhibits; the laboratories 
of Hygiene and Sanitation, Sanitary Chemistry and Architecture, 
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Louise M. Alcott 
Club, 15 Oswego Street, which conducts children's classes in 
Household Arts and which provided a special demonstration for 
the delegates; the School of Domestic Science, Miss Forehand, 
Principal, 40 Berkeley Street; Miss Farmer's School of Cookery, 
30 Huntington Avenue; Laboratory-Kitchen Lunch Rooms, 69 
Bedford Street, Miss Stevenson, President; Sunshine Laundry, 
Misses White, 8 Flora Street, Brookline; Whitcomb & Barrows, 
Publishers, Huntington Chambers, Boston; Women's Industrial 
and Educational Union, 264 Boylston Street; Out-door School 
for Tuberculous Children, Franklin Park, Dorchester; The 



8 The Journal of Home Economics [?''°bruary 

Brookline High School; the Garland Home School, Mrs. Stan- 
nard, Principal; and the Exhibit of Modern Cooking Appliances, 
at the Barnard Memorial. 

Several social gatherings were arranged by friends of Home 
Economics in Boston which contributed greatly to the pleasure of 
the delegates. On Thursday afternoon, Mrs. Henry M. Whitney 
invited the members of the association to attend a reception at 
her residence, 54 Beacon Street, to meet Mrs. Mary H. Abel, 
Editor of the Journal of Home Economics. For Thursday 
evening, Mrs. Mary Morton Kehew had issued invitations to a 
musicale at her home on Chestnut Street which brought together 
members of the scientific societies meeting in Boston and also 
of the Home Economics Association. On Friday afternoon at 
4 o'clock, Mrs. Stannard of the Garland School received 
the members of the Association in an informal tea at the school 
kitchen, and at 5 p. m., the Women's Industrial and Educational 
Union tendered an informal tea to the delegates at its headquar- 
ters, 264 Boylston Street. Finally, after the closing section of 
this convention, the delegates met in a delightful reception to 
Mrs. Annie Dewey, founder of the Lake Placid Conference on 
Home Economics, at the home of Mrs. William V. Kellen, 342 
Beacon Street. 

Reviewing the sessions of the Boston Convention, several dis- 
tinct conclusions seem warranted. The hearty co-operation on 
the program of members of the societies meeting in Boston 
was a recognition of Home Economics which should be an encour- 
agement to every member of the Association. Of equal, if not 
more encouragement is the fact attested by the program, that 
Home Economics workers are themselves conducting scientific 
studies and investigations. The plan of holding sectional meet- 
ings resulted admirably; our membership is apparently ready for 
further organization along lines of the separate interests which 
find their union in the Home Economics point of view. Finally, 
the Boston program emphasized the relation of natural science, 
physics, chemistry and biology, to the home. The next meeting 
while holding to and reiterating this fact ought to stress as vigor- 
ously the equally pertinent relations of economic and social 
science to the home and the institutional household. 



iQio] Boston Convention g 

MINUTES OF COUNCIL. 

Council meeting, December 30, 1909, 2.30 p. m., Institute of Technology. 

The meeting was called to order by the President, Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, 
and following the roll of the Council; the reports of the Secretary and 
Treasurer were read as appended below. 

The recommendations of the Executive Committee were received and 
acted upon as follows: 

It was moved by Miss Jacobs, seconded by Miss Kinney and carried, that 
the following recommendation be adopted as a permanent policy: The 
money from life members of the Association shall be invested as a per- 
manent fund, the income only to be used for the current expenses of the 
Association. 

It was moved by Dr. Mendel, seconded by Mrs. Woolman, and carried, 
that the permanent funds of the Association shall be under the control of 
the Finance Com»mittee as regards investment. 

It was moved by Miss Arnold, seconded by Miss Berry, and carried, that 
the following recommendation be referred to the Editorial Board for con- 
sideration: That a by-law be recommended to the Association to the 
eflfect that the dues of the Association shall be Fifty Cents and that sub- 
scriptions to the Journal of Home Economics shall be $1.50 to members 
of the Association and $2.00 to others, with the proviso that the Editorial 
Board shall have authority to determine the exact division of the $2.00 
charge as may be required in negotiations with the Post Office Department. 

It was moved by Mrs. Woolman, seconded and carried, that the matter 
of advertisements be left to the discretion of the Editorial Board. 

It was moved by Dr. Mendel, seconded and carried, that the following 
recommendation of the Executive Committee be adopted: That the 
editorial control of the Journal for 1910 be vested in an Editor-in-Chief, 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel, to be assisted b}^ a Board of Contributors, representing 
the following divisions of the field: Education, Extension, Food 
and Nutrition, Textiles and Clothing, House and Sanitation, Family, 
Administration and Affiliated Societies; each department to have a 
contributing editor as recommended by the Executive Committee, such 
editor to be responsible for the individual field, including contributions, 
book reviews and abstracts; and the Board of Editors to have power 
to fill vacancies and add to its membership. 

The following recommendation of the Executive Committee was received 
by the Council, discussed and referred to the general meeting for further 
consideration : That two annual meetings of the Association be held dur- 
ing 1910, a summer meeting with the National Education Association, or 
at La,ke Placid, and a winter meeting with the Economic and Sociological 
Societies, and that two committees on program be appointed, responsible 
for the respective meetings. 

The Council then passed to the consideration of reports from affiliated 
societies, as follows : 

New England Home Economics Association, Miss Eliot; Home Eco- 
nomics Association of Greater New York, Miss Willard; Association of 



I o The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Teachers of Cooking in New York City, Miss Daley; Housekeepers' Al- 
liance, Washington, Miss Jacobs. 

Written reports were presented from the Home Economics Club of 
Grand Rapids and Iowa State Economics Association. 

On successive motions, the following committees were authorized to be 
appointed by the chair, and appointments were later made as follows: 

Committee on Affiliated Societies. — Miss Van Rensselaer, Chair- 
man, Miss Daley, Miss Jacobs, Miss Eliot and Miss Willard. 

Auditing Committee. — To review Treasurer's report: Miss Berry. 

Permanent Committee on Finance. — Miss Talbot, University of 
Chicago, Miss Lord, Pratt Institute, and Professor Norris, Simmons 
College. 

Committee on Resolutions. — Miss Jacobs, Miss Weer and Miss Wilson. 

On motion, the Council adjourned. 

REPORT OF SECRETARY. 

Membership: At the time of the Washington Convention the member- 
ship stood at 700 members; there are now 1242 members on the list of the 
Association, and in addition 68 subscribers to the Journal, making a 
total of 13 10. 

Affiliated Societies: The following societies have affiliated with the 
Association: The Home Economics Association of Greater New York; 
the Association of Teachers of Cooking in the New York Public Schools; 
The Housekeepers' Alliance, of Washington, D. C; The Home Economics 
Club of Grand Rapids, Mich.; the Pacific Coast Conference on Home 
Economics; and the Iowa State Home Economics Association. Associa- 
tions are also in existence or being formed in Ohio, Utah, Virginia and 
other centers which propose to affiliate with the Association. 

Organization of Executive Committee : After the Washington Con- 
vention, in accordance with the Constitution, the Council by ballot chose 
the following five members to act with the elected officers as an Executive 
Committee: Helen Kinne, Emma S. Jacobs, Caroline L. Hunt, Mary S. 
Snow, and Mrs. Alice P. Norton. This Executive Committee held a meet- 
ing in New York, April 28, 1909, and provided for the incorporation of the 
Association under the laws of the State of New York, which was accom- 
plished May 12, 1909. 

The Journal of Home Economics: After the Washington Conven- 
tion the secretary was authorized by the Executive Committee of the 
Associati n to bring out the Journal of Home Economics as the publica- 
tion of the Association. Arrangements were made with Mr. W. F. 
Humphrey, Geneva, N. Y., to act as printer, and the secretary assumed 
the editorial and business respon.sibility, under the general direction of he 
Executive Committee. Five issues of a bi-monthly publication were 
arranged for, and the first two issues were edited by the secretarv. Dr. C. 
F. Langworthy of the Executive Committee edited the third issue, after 
which the Executive Committee located the editorial responsibility with 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel, she being assisted by Dr. Langworthy and Miss Jacobs 
as an advisory committee. 



^^^°-' Boston Convention jj 

TREASURER'S REPORT OF CASH STATEMENT. 
Jan. I, 1909, to Dec. 24th, 1909. 

Receipts. 
From Dues ... 

;; Reprints..;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; ;;;;;;; 5^329.30 

Subscriptions .. ^ .'^^ 

106.05 

$2485.66 

Expenditures. 

Preliminary Bulletin and Organization ... % oa as 

Incorporation ^4.04 

Office Equipment 3 7-4i 

Postage and Stationery ;;;;;; !^'^° 

Stenographer and Clerical Asst . . ; ; ; ;;;;;;. ^54-58 

Office Expense, Incidentals ; ; ; '^ '^'^^ 

Pamphlets and Reprints ; ; ; ; ^^•'^i 

Transfer of Accounts (Refunds) ^°9-95 

Journal 5-5° 

Bank Charges (Exchange) ; ; ; ; 1252.67 

3°2 $2293.03 

Balance on hand 

192.63 

$2485.66 

MINUTES OF ANNUAL MEETING. 
SATURDAY. JANUARY I. 1910. SIMMONS COLLEGE. 

ElknTI'^H'^ T "f"^ ,'" °'^'^ ^' "^° P- ^■' "^y ^he president Mrs 
Ellen H. Richards, who dehvered the annual presidential address on he 

r'% . . "'^°^ '" """"^^ Economics. At the close of the address 
Mrs. Richards spoke of the members of the Association who had died durlne 
the past year. Miss Mana Parioa, Miss Maria Daniel and Mrs MoZ 
Various items of business were then taken up as follows ■ 

Appotntment of Committees: A communication from Dr A C True 
chairman of a committee of the Association of American Agricultura Col ' 

of ^co^tes'rarte''"^^"^ T Z^''' °^ "^^^^" ^^^^ ^---^^ 
lor colleges had been received, and on motion the President wa^ 

authorized to appoint a committee to represent the Amen an Home 
Economics Association, and to act jointly with the committee o^Dr 
IZ' i 1 T ""' ^PP--ted as such comm.ittee: Prof. M E 
the K ^he University of California, Mrs. Mary Pierce Van Zile of 
A.rio 1?"^ State Agricultural College. Miss Ellen Huntington of the 
Agricultural College of Utah. Miss Isabel Bevier, of the Unive^s^tv of 
Ilhnois. and Miss Edna D. Day of the University of Missouri ' 

The President as mstructed by a resolution at the mornin<. session 
appointed as a Committee on Child-Xurses: Miss Adelaide .Nutt^Tof 



12 



The Journal of Home Economics [February 



Teachers College, Chairman, and Mrs. Blanche E. Hyde, of Newt-, n, (Mass.) 
Technical High School, with power to add additional numbers. 

Reports of Committees: Miss Berry of the Committee on Audit gave the 
following report which was accepted: "I do hereby certify that I have 
examined the accounts of the treasurer and to the best of my ability have 
found them correct." (Signed) Josephine T. Berry. 

The Committee on Affiliated Societies reported through its Chairman, 
Miss Van Rensselaer, that it would endeavor to secure a representative in 
the different states to develop Home Economics work among women's clubs 
bv securing speakers and advising regarding programs of study, and in 
other ways. 

The Finance Committee through Miss Lord reported that it had drawn 
up a budget for the year 1910 as follows: 

Expenses of annual meeting $ 200.00 

Postage and stationery 275.00 

Journal 1750.00 

Committees 7 5 00 

Pamphlets 150.00 

Incidentals 25.00 

Total $2475.00 

The last three items are to be dependent on previous expenditure. 
The Journal may exceed the amount stated if it seems advisable to 
the Executive Commxittee. 

The fund of $150 from life memberships is to be invested in a sav- 
ings bank. 

On motion duly seconded it was unanimously voted to adopt the 
budget as recommended. 

Miss Bevier was called upon to speak regarding the Graduate School of 
Hom^e Economics. She said that while the Graduate School of Home 
Economics was not officially connected with the American Home Econo- 
mics Association, it would be a matter of interest to all members of the 
Association to know that plans were under way for a session of the school 
at Ames, Iowa, during the summer of 1910. The Graduate School of 
Home Economics began in the summer of 1902 when Professor Atwater 
invited a group of Home Economics workers to meet at Wesleyan Univer- 
sity, Middletown, Conn., and spend some time in study in his laboratories. 
The next meeting of the School was at the University of Illinois in 1905, 
when Dean Davenport of the State College of Agriculture co-operated with 
those interested in Home Economics so that a number of courses of instruc- 
tion were offered. In July, 1908, the Graduate School held its next ses- 
sion at Cornell University with the Third Graduate School of Agri- 
culture. By co-operation with the faculty of this school the Graduate 
School of Home Economics was able to offer a very useful series of courses. 
At that meeting it was voted to make the Graduate School of Home 
Economics a permanent institution, meeting alternate years with the 
Graduate School of Agriculture. A committee was appointed to direct 
the affairs of the school with Miss Edna D. Day, University of Missouri, as 
Chairman. This Committee is now making plans for a session of 
school at Ames, Iowa, during the summer of 19 10. 



iQio] Boston Convention 



13 



The Journal: The secretary reported for the Editorial Board that it 
had been decided to publish the Journal of Home Economics during 1910 
bi-monthly, with five issues as during 1909. For the present no advertis- 
ing would be admitted to its pages. The suggestion that the fee of the 
Association might be divided between a membership fee and a subscription 
to the Journal, thus making the Journal a subscription publication and 
so securing from the postal authorities a ruling that would admit advertis- 
ing to the pages of the Journal, had been considered by the Board and 
action deferred for the present. 

Each issue during the coming year is to be of ninety-six pages. The 
Editorial Board, established by vote of the Council, December 30, 1909, 
met during the Convention and organized as follows: Mrs. Mary H. 
Abel, Baltimore, editor-in-chief; Contributing Editors: Education, 
Helen Kinne, Teachers College, New York; Extension, Anna Barrows, 
Boston, Mass.; Food and Nutrition, C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C; Textiles and Clothing, Abby L. 
Marlatt, University of Wisconsin; The House, Isabel Bevier, University 
of Illinois; Administration, Mrs. Melvil R. Dewey, Lake Placid Club; 
The Family, Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Teachers College, New York; Affiliated 
Societies, Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University. 

Miss Bevier spoke regarding the management of the Journal and urged 
upon the members of the Association the responsibility of extending its 
circulation. The Board had decided to omit advertisements, she said, 
and maintain the Journal in its present dignified form, relying for its 
support upon its own merits as a scientific and educational publication. 
Owned by the Association and published for the benefit of its 
members it should receive their cordial support in extending its usefulness. 
It was stated that a printed leaflet describing the Journal would be issued 
which members might use in extending notice of it. Suggestions were 
asked for from those present as to desirable articles for publication in the 
Journal. Requests were made for material upon the subject matter of 
Home Economics, methods of teaching, settlement work, cost of living, 
and other social and economic topics. 

Election of Officers: Through Mr. LeBosquet the Committee on Nomina- 
tions reported that the returns from the ballot sent out to members showed 
a majority of opinions favoring the re-election of the officers whose terms 
were about to expire, especially in view of the fact that they had served 
through the initial year of the Association and the work of organization 
was not yet complete. The Committee on Nominations therefore recom- 
mended the following persons for officers: For president, 19 10, Mrs. Ellen 
H. Richards; First vice-president, 1910, Miss Isabel Bevier; second vice- 
president, 1 9 10, Dr. C. F. Langworthy; third vice-president, 1910, 
Miss Mary U. Watson; secretary-treasurer, Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews; 
for councilors-at-Iarge, each for five years, beginning 19 10: Miss 
Josephine T. Berry, Miss Mamie E. Gearing, Miss Helen Kinne, Miss 
Catherine A. Mulligan, Mr. George A. Putnam; for member of committee 
on nominations, for five years beginning 1910, Miss Ruth A. Wardall. 



14 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

On motion, duly seconded, the recommendation of the Committee on 
Nominations was unanimously adopted and the officers as named above 
were declared elected. 

The Committee on Nominations also presented the following resolution 
which was adopted by the Association as an expression of its opinion but 
declared not absolutely binding upon future action : "Resolved : That it 
be the policy of the Association hereafter that Vice-Presidents, Councilors- 
at-Large, and members of the Nominating Committee shall not be eligible 
for re-election within one year." 

Amendment to By-Laws: The Committee on Nominations also pre- 
sented an amendment to Article I of the By-Laws. Due notice of the 
proposed by-law was given one month in advance in the call for the Con- 
vention. Upon motion duly seconded, the amendment was adopted by 
unanimous vote as follows : 

By-Laws. Article L Election of Officers. The sentence "This Com- 
mittee shall prepare printed ballots subject to suggestion from members" 
is hereby amended to read "The Committee shall make nominations after 
inviting suggestions from members." 

Annual Meeting: The President reported that the matter of the annual 
meeting of the Association had been discussed in the Council and that 
opinion seemed to favor a summer meeting with the National Education 
Association and a winter meeting perhaps with the National Economics 
and Sociological Societies. A further discussion of the matter was held 
and the subject was referred to the Executive Committee of the Associa- 
tion for action. 

Comm,ittee on Resolutions: The Committee on Resolutions made the 
following report which was unanimously adopted : 

Whereas we believe that the second annual :neeting of the Home 
Economics Association has furnished its members higher ideals of service 
and the inspiration which will help crystallize them into definite personal 
effort to carry on the principles for which the Association stands : 

Be it therefore resolved, that the Association express a hearty vote of 
thanks to the committee on program for their wise discrimination in select- 
ing subjects and to those who through papers and discussions have con- 
tributed to the success of this meeting. 

Be it also resolved, that the Association express through its secretary a 
hearty vote of thanks to the officials of Simmons College, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Hotel 
Westminster for the privilege of holding meetings within their institutions. 

Be it also resolved, that a hearty vote of thanks be given to the various 
public and philanthropic institutions which have afforded opportunity of 
seeing some of their work. 

-'.■t^Be it also resolved, that the Association express through its secretary a 
heartv vote of thanks to Mrs. Whitney, Mrs. Kehew, Mrs. Stannard and 
Mrs. Kellen who have made possible the pleasant social intercourse which 
has been enjoyed; Also, to Mi.ss Stearns and Miss Hyams who so ably 
made arrangement and provision for our entertainment and comfort. 

On motion, the second annual convention of the American Home 
Economics Association adjourned sine die. 

Benj.\min R. Andrews, Sec. 



PAPERS AND ADDRESSES AT BOSTON CONVENTION. 
DEC. 30.-JAN. I. 

The address of welcome by President Henry Lefavour of 
Simmons College to the delegates, the address of the Presi- 
dent of the Association, and several of the papers presented are 
printed herewith. Other papers will appear in subsequent num- 
bers of the Journal. 

ADDRESS OF WELCOME. 
President Henry Lefavour. 

Simmons College. 

Ladies and Gentlemen: It is a very genuine pleasure to 
the governing boards of the college that you have honored it by 
holding this, your second annual meeting, under our roof. The 
subject of Home Economics has been of the greatest interest to 
this college from the outset ; and I suppose that there are more 
students enrolled in that department than in any two of the 
other departments. When we began our activities the subject, 
as I say, was of importance, but appeared far from systematic. 
It was fragmentary, diversified, and far from being in any peda- 
gogical form. Considerable attention had been given to the 
proper preparation of food, to the making of attractive clothing, 
and to the physiology and chemistry of nutrition, but there was 
very little inter-relation and what a properly constituted Home 
Economics department should be, was, with the exception of 
certain theories, beyond, I think, a real expression in any institu- 
tion of learning in the country. But the last seven years have 
shown a very great progress, and while all that had been done 
was preserved, much was added, and I am inclined to say that the 
element of economics has been the key-note to the whole pro- 
gress. The formation of this Association is an indication of the 
general interest and of the necessity of co-operation, of compar- 
ing mutual experiences. I am glad you called it an economic 
Association, for I think there is no single question which is of 
larger importance than that of Domestic Economics. It is not 
enough to prepare food attractively ; it is not enough to make 
clothing in an artistic way; it is not enough to know what are 
the relative nutritive values of foods ; it is not enough to make 
sure that all the principles of sanitation are used properly; the 

15 



1 6 The Journal of Home Economics. [February 

question at issue is how to get the most out of one's income. 
Now, the fundamental questions of life after all, so far as the 
proper physical side is concerned, are those of food and shelter 
and clothing; and the problem for every family is to be able, 
with the income which the family has, to make the most adequate 
use of that income, so that the family is properly clothed and 
fed and sheltered — up to the limits of the ability of that family. 
That is a pressing social question and a question which is going 
to become more and more pressing; and not only for the poor, 
not only for the laboring classes, but for those who call themselves 
people of moderate resources. Where a family is oppressed by 
the direst poverty the pressure of that poverty is almost enough to 
bring about results. The more difficult problem, is, v.''hen the 
family is not oppressed by poverty but sees poverty approaching, 
to be able to adapt micans to ends. 

But, be"yond the question of the household, there are arising 
new questions, institutional questions. The hospitals, of course, 
have felt that. Almost every hospital is relatively poor, but 
every hospital must use food vvhich will produce the end in ques- 
tion, that is, the recovery of the patients. But, beyond that, 
there is a set of public questions coming into view now, and that 
is the proper maintenance of the inmates of institutions. I 
think that in this state, at any rate, practically no attention has 
been paid to the proper economy of diet in our public institutions. 
The stewards who have charge of the food, the superintendents 
who have general charge, are interested in economy of buying; 
but, while they are interested, I doubt if they are intelligent 
as to economy of nutrition. Take, for instance, the simple 
question of the care of the insane, most of whom are not invalids 
in the sense that they need special food diets, but who must be 
maintained by the state and must be maintained as economically 
as possible. There are some twelve thousand in the State of 
Massachusetts, costing the state four dollars and eighty to ninety 
cents a week to be maintained. A saving of fifty cents per week 
per patient would mean thirty thousand dollars a year to the 
state, and I do not believe that fifty cents is the limit if the 
proper knowledge of the question of nutrition were applied. 

All this means that the generation that is growing up must be 
informed as to the elements of this question. We must have 
teachers properly trained and we must know how to train teachers. 



igio] Boston Convention 17 

And it is for you, who are leaders in this movement to ascertain 
the proper methods in this training, the proper solution of the 
problem of the economic values. I congratulate you that so 
many are here to begin these very interesting and important 
sessions, and I assure you the college is very glad if it can be of 
any service to you. 

THE OUTLOOK IN HOME ECONOMICS. 
Ellen H. Richards, 

President of American Home Economics Association. 

In the vegetable kingdom it often happens that the seeds of 
evanescent forms of plant life sprout quickly, reach maturity 
quickly and die soon. The hardy oak, however, grows slowly 
from a seed buried in the ground for perhaps two years. 

Similar laws seem to hold in the animal kingdom. Lordly 
man boasts of his long infancy as indicating a long life of working 
power. In the world of ideas, slow growth is not noticed, is 
difficult to trace and the eager mind is often discouraged, think- 
ing the seed dead when it is only dormant, gathering strength for 
future development. 

It frequently means stability, this long waiting for the world 
to adopt the schemes presented to it. 

To us, today, is given to see the tree of our nurture, with its 
roots firmly planted and branches spreading from sea to sea. 
The seed of it was planted many years ago and has many times 
been dug up to see if life existed. 

Home Economics, the preservation of the home and the 
economics of living occupy a large place in the transactions of 
societies and even in the daily press. 

Just what do we, as a national organization, stand for? What 
is our endeavor for the immediate future ? 

First, I think, is the willingness to learn — the acceptance of a 
need to know. 

Second, as a result is a hearty support for investigation, for 
scientific research — the acquisition of knowledge. 

Third, the immediate application of acquired knowledge to 
matters of daily living and eagerness to apply means; a behef 
that mental and moral development are affected by physical 
environment; that it is not beneath science or philosophy to 
take note of the consequences of daily food and shelter and the 
problems of cleanliness. 



1 8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

It is perhaps the contact with our alien population that has 
taught us how much may be done in a short time. It is a gather- 
ing together of all lines of scientific research for the last one 
hundred years that gives us courage to go on. 

The past has been an iconoclastic age, but we are entering a 
constructive one. Old traditions are being torn up by the roots. 
New principles of action are being examined very closely before 
acceptance. 

The family meeting place, the home, and its maintenance are 
in the focus of sociologic and economic study. All the resources 
of science, physics, chemistry, biology, architecture and me- 
chanics, are being brought to bear on the problems. We who 
have been working in the dark, both as to our own aims and as to 
others are now in the open trench with the light of Heaven above, 
but with confining walls on either side. We see eager hands held 
out to help us. Our mission is now to encourage, and sometimes, 
to restrain the eager multitude. 

Just what do we see before us? 

First, a determination of values in material things of daily 
maintenance in terms of human efficiency, this efficiency to be of 
the mind and soul as well as of the body. 

Second, a readiness to clear away all the obstructions to this 
clearer road. 

It is a vision. We need a sight of the goal, something to work 
for. Whatever hinders must be removed. There must be an 
end to be gained, however, not mere wanton destruction. 

A good illustration is the running of an electric trolley line 
through an old, picturesque but decayed village to an enterprising 
town beyond. It is a pity to cut the century-old trees to widen 
the beautifully narrow streets; to disturb the peacefvil old peo- 
ple; to kill a few perhaps before they become accustomed to the 
speed. The aesthetic on-looker wrings his hands at the seeming 
desecration. So he does over the going out of the woman from 
the shelter of the leaking home-roof to earn money to mend it. 
He covers his eyes from the sight of apartment houses and 
restaurants, from the counters piled high with ready-made 
garments. He mourns the offer of a school lunch to underfed 
children. He holds to the parent's duty to care for his children; 
to the wife's duty to spend her husband's money and only his; and 
meanwhile, the children are being sacrificed. 



1910] Boston Convention 19 

The school, the settlement, and the research laboratory are all 
to work together for the final betterment of the home. When 
a smooth boulevard is to be built through a city, the prelimi- 
nary upheaval is disheartening, but necessary if a firm foundation 
is to be laid. Just so, in mental and moral readjustments, there is 
a time of broken-up traditions, of foundations that have served 
their purpose and must give way to more suitable structures. 

The word I wish to leave with you is — Courage — Faith in the 
evolution of the race — Progress by the very means which seem at 
first sight to destroy all cherished ideals. This courage can only 
come through a basis of scientific truth, that truth which will, 
in the end, prevail. 

THE RELATION OF DOMESTIC x\RT TO FINE ART 

TEACHING. 1 

Grace G. Starbird. 
Practical Arts High School, Boston. 

In considering this subject, the Relation of Domestic Art 
Teaching to Fine Arts Teaching, I shall endeavor to discuss the 
aim of the Art Course in a vocational school such as the Practical 
Arts High School of Boston as compared with that in an ordinary 
academic high school. In the Practical Arts School we strive 
to acquire knowledge not for its own sake, nor for abstract dis- 
cipline, but for use in the practical problems of every day life. 
The principles taught are those which should be taught in any 
high school, for they are vital to all art teaching. The objects 
studied and designs created are related, however, to the life 
of the students and to their vocational work. 

Every woman is a living example of good or bad taste as is 
shown by her dress and her immediate surroundings. The art 
work of this school has for its aim the cultivation of taste, the 
establishment of ideals, the acquirement of skill in expression of 
visual perceptions and mental conceptions by both freehand and 
instrumental drawings; the analysis, classification and harmoni- 
zation of color ; the re-creation or adaptation of given designs to 
new conditions or requirements. Since our vocational work at 
present includes dressmaking, millinery and household science 
our art coiirse includes costume drawing and design and house- 



'Presented before Domestic Art Section, Boston Convention, American Home Economics 
Association. 



20 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

hold decoration and furnishing with their accompaning problems. 
As we have no more time for drawing than the regular high 
school we cannot achieve great things but we trust that by 
earnest effort our observation and appreciation of fine things 
will be much improved. 

In the ordinary academic high school, drawing is pursued under 
three heads: Representation, construction and composition. 
We preserve this same classification. 

Representation trains both the observation and the judgment 
and brings the pupil in close touch with the objects of his environ- 
ment. Rapid sketching and memory drawing as a means of 
expressing ideas are of infinite value to the craftsman. We study 
the objects with which we are directly concerned in our vocational 
work, such as patterns, furniture, details of interiors, gowns, 
hats and their accessories; the perspective principles involved 
in portraying the same; and the use of different mediimis and 
modes of expression. 

Under construction we study not only the appearance but also 
the facts of form and the principles and conventions belonging to 
their portrayal in the line language of the work-shop. Geometri- 
cal drawing, diagrams of the model and individual dress forms, 
scale drawing, simple plans and elevations of rooms, dwellings, 
and furniture whether of existing form.s, of original designs, or of 
modications and improvements, all find their place here. The 
ability to talk intelligently with the pencil in the language of the 
mechanic may become of untold value to the housewife in her 
dealings with the practical matters of the household. 

The principles of composition are fundamental to all art, 
to architecture, to sculpture, to painting and to all forms of 
appHcd art. These we study in their relation to the practical 
problems of daily life. We learn to analyze costume and articles 
belonging to the home from the standpoint of line, form, and 
color so that we may know why an article is good or bad. We 
learn that in art all things are relative, that objects not bad in 
themselves may be bad when associated with others with which 
they have nothing in common. Designs for costumes with their 
accf'ssories, for the decoration and furnishing of a home, or the 
objects of utility or service in the home give us many and varied 
problems. 



iQio] Boston Convention 21 

Experimentation, comparison and choice are essential to our 
development. Life, however, is too short to try many experi- 
ments unless the methods of trying them are very simple. To 
construct things of fabrics, wood or metal in order to test them 
and prove which is best and fittest requires too much waste of 
time and material. It is here that drawing holds first place. 
The realm of experimentation with a pencil is wonderful and 
fascinating; it is almost as unlimited as thought itself. When 
by a sketch in line or color a dressmaker or decorator can place 
before herself and others many ways of doing a thing, she makes 
possible the choice of the best, the fittest, the most beautiful. 
She hits the mark because her sketches have made possible a 
vivid comparison. 

Systematic color training, which belongs to the study of 
composition and representation as well, includes the analysis and 
classification of color, the study of tone relations, the effect of 
colors upon one another and upon the individual, and the 
scientific reasons why certain color qualities are not advisable 
for use in costume and home furnishing. The ability to define 
any color and express it in formulas so that it may be visualized 
and reproduced when not in the presence of the original is of 
great value. 

The possession of beautiful pictures, statues or rugs does not 
insure a beautiful home. The home should be a unit perfectly 
adapted to the life and circumstances of its occupants. Every 
object in it should be chosen with the thought of its relation to 
other things with which it must be associated. This is essential 
to that unity which gives repose. Without this relationship 
homes become museums. Line, form, and color are the elements 
with which we create these relationships. Rhythm, balance, 
and harmony are the three great principles which guide in 
establishing these relations. A working knowledge of these 
principles gives us a basis of judgment which fashion does not 
weaken. The desire for novelty and change is a powerful factor in 
our modem life and fashion is a dictator to whom many are 
willing slaves. To be able to analyze the modes and select those 
things which are good because they conform to the vital prin- 
ciples of true beauty is a means to real satisfaction as well as to 
economy. Ideas which are based on reason and good taste will 



2 2 Th^ Jotirnal of Home Economics [February 

never appear wholly bad while those whose only reason for being 
is that they are new are the most fleeting. 

A costume becomes a work of art when its structural lines are 
perfectly adapted to the material and to the figure which they 
are to clothe, enhancing its natural charm or concealing or 
agreeably modifying any imperfection it may possess, when 
there is perfect co-ordination in the lines belonging to the different 
parts of the gown as backs and fronts, waists and skirts; when 
the several parts are beautiful in proportion; when the essential 
features are made the decorative instead of the decorative being 
mere superfluities; and when the quality of its color brings out 
the best that is in the wearer. The dress should be to the woman 
like the setting to the jewel. It should never be permitted to be 
her rival. 

Our art courses should develop correct vision and excellence in 
execution, a refined taste and appreciation of fitness, adapta- 
bility, discrimination and versatility, a judgment based on reason 
and not on fancy and power to record ideas so they may be 
developed by the trade worker. In fact the art training ought 
to lift the student from the plane of a mere trade worker who can 
simply execute given problems with her hands, to that of the 
intelligent worker with fine impulses who can make an art of 
whatsoever vocation she may undertake. We can make an art 
of anything if we give it sufficient thought and attention and 
carry it out in accord v/ith the ideal. 



STANDARDIZING THE HOME.x 
John R. Commons. 

Professor of PoUtical Economy, University of Wisconsin. 

If our government were turned over to an anti-poverty syndi- 
cate on such terms that the syndicate should have a half of the 
increase in national wealth produced by its conservation of 
human resources, the syndicate would at once invent standard 
units for the measurement of costs and results. Uniform 
accounts and cost-keeping on the basis of such standard units 
are essential for an electric or gas or street-car or iron and steel 
syndicate in deciding which of its plants is most economical, 
which of its managers is most efficient, or which of its inventions 
and experiments is most promising. A gas syndicate would go 
bankrupt if a thousand feet of gas meant a different amount of 
light, heat, moisture, pressure or rate of flow in its different 
establishments. Every branch of engineering has its learned 
societies and scientific experts whose most important work is 
that of agreeing upon standard units to be adopted throughout 
the industry. Now that another kind of engineering— "social 
engineering"— is emerging from the speculations and theories of 
economics and sociology, we, too, are compelled to pause at the 
threshold in order, first of all, to agree upon the units by which 
we shall compare our costs and our results. 

What is the unit that we are seeking.? The electric engineer, 
or steam engineer, or water-power engineer, seeks a unit for 
measuring the output of energy— a "kilowatt" or a "horse- 
power." He seeks also his units of cost— the quality and cost of 
the coal consumed, the capacity and efficiency of boilers and 
engines.- Our unit of output relates to the health, longevity, 
industrial ability, comfort and welfare of human beings. Our 
units of cost are food, shelter, clothing, occupation, education 
We have our statistics of health which tell us something of our 
output, and we are trying to do something toward minimum 
standards of food and housing. But our efforts are haphazard 

also^SfoS^IS'a^^^^^^^^^^^^ 



23 



24 The Journal of Hmne Economics [February 

because we have no units by which we can compare costs with 
output. This is especially distracting, because, under our form 
of government, our courts forbid interference that goes beyond 
their ideas of what is necessary, and we have no standards by 
which we can enlighten them. 

Then, too, our units are quite complex, and there are a lot of 
personal elements that baffle us. But is this a fatal difficulty? 
Only in case we attempt too much. There are margins of varia- 
tion in every branch of applied science. Let us break up our 
problem and begin with the most essential. This is the home, 
and the basis of the home is the dwelling house. When we rent 
or buy a home, we are paying for a bundle of house accommoda- 
tions for the sake of health, comfort, education and efficiency. 
How much house accommodation do we get and how much do 
we pay for each unit of it? 

This even is a complicated unit. It consists of many factors, 
and no two investigators attach the same weight to each of the 
factors. But this difficulty is exactly the one that has been met 
in another field, by breeders' associations and by produce ex- 
changes, in standardizing and grading agricultural products, 
such as wheat, com, butter, horses, cows and pigs. An ideal 
horse, for example, perfect in every particular, is represented by 
loo points. The horse is mapped off and described by 36 specifi- 
cations, and each specification is given a weight or value, cor- 
responding to its importance in making up the perfect animal. 
Thus "general appearance" gets 29 points, composed of 5 points 
for "weight," 4 for "form," 6 for "quality," and so on. These 
standard weights, or values, are printed in a column opposite 
each specification, and a second or blank column is provided 
under the caption "Points Deficient." In using the score card, 
the "valuer" goes over the horse, noticing in detail all the points 
specified, and then marks down opposite each his judgment of 
the degree to which the animal before him is deficient in that 
particular point. The total of all points deficient is then de- 
ducted from 100, and the result is the grade of the animal scored. 
In attempting to adopt this method I have drawn up the fol- 
lowing score card for dwelling houses. The weights, or "values" 
given to each of the 35 specifications are of course tentative, 
and can be made precise only after a large body of evidence is 
assembled and experts have passed upon them. But precision 



^9io] Standardizing the Home 25 

at this point is not important. The main object is the specifica- 
tions themselves. If all investigators use the same specifications 
any person afterwards can change the weights to suit his own 
theories or his knowledge of the facts. 

The accuracy of the method consists in the fact that it limits 
the total margin of error by breaking it up into 30 or 40 little 
margins. Where measurements are possible, but little discre- 
tion need be left to the individual. This appears in the case of 
"wmdow openings." Where measurements are not possible 
the agents must depend on their judgment, but this judgment can 
be brought close to uniformity by "instructions for discrediting 
when depending on judgment." For convenience I have used 
only the weights 3 and 6 for those specifications depending on 
judgment, and have introduced the same kind of instructions as 
those given in the official score cards of breeders' associations for 
horses and cattle. These and other instructions will be found at 
the proper points on the score-card. 

When a house is "scored" according to this card, we shall have 
the "total points deficient," and the "actual score" of that house 
compared with a perfect or ideal house. We are then in a 
position to compare the rents or cost of housing by correcting the 
"nominal rent" by means of the "actual score." I have sug- 
gested three standard units of comparison, as will be seen on the 
card, viz., "rent per room," "rent per 100 sq. ft." of floor space, 
and "rent per 1,000 cu. ft." of air capacity. Taking "rent per 
100 sq. ft.," which is probably the fairest unit under all circum- 
stances, it can easily be seen that, of two houses renting nomi- 
nally at $1.00 per month for equal floor space, if the "actual 
score" of one is 80 and the other 50, the "real rent" of the one is 
$1.25 and the other $2.00 for the unit of house accommodation 
compared with the real rent of $1 .00 for a perfect house. 



26 



The Jottrnal of Home Economics 

DWELLING HOUSE SCORE CARD. 
Applies to a single Family or Household. 



[February- 



State . 



. City . 



.Street No. 



Name of owner Name of Occupant. 



Name of Investigator Date 

Instructions for Discrediting when Depending on Judgment 

Deduct from possible 6: very slight. 1 ; slight, 2 ; marked. 3 ; very marked, 4 ; extreme, 5. 
Deduct from possible 3; very slight. J4; slight, 1 ; marked. 1 M; very marked.2; extreme,2^ 



I.— DWELLING— 100 POINTS 



Points 
Possible I Defi- 
Score cient 



LOCATION— 18 Points 

1. General Character of Neighborhood, villa, farm, residence, 

park, (Discredit for factory, slum, neglected district) 

2. Elevation, high ground, sloping away on all sides 

3. Condition of Street, width ^ft.) clean, smooth, hard, 

free from dust, sprinkled, flushed, free from refuse 

(Indicate whether asphalt, block stone, macadam, cobble.wood, 
dirt) 

4. Smoke, fvee from (indicate source) 

5. Odors, free from nauseous (indicate source) 

6. Dust, free from (indicate source) 

CONGESTION OF BUILDINGS— 26 Points 

7. Character of Dwelling— 10 Points 

Detached 

Attached, separate entrance, discredit 1 point 
Attached, common entrance, discredit 2 points 
Flat (entire floor), discredit 3 points 
Apartment (2 or more on same floor), discredit 4 points 
Basement (over }4 above street level), discredit 5 points 
Cellar (over 3^ below street level), discredit 6 points 
Additional discredits for flat or apartment without eleva- 
tor. 2nd floor 2 points, .^rd floor 3 points, etc. 
S.^Sunlight— 16 Points 

Height and distance of next building (use foot of its own 
window in case of flat or apartment, otherwise foot of 
lower window, as base line above which to measure 
height of next building) 

Direction Height Distance Per Cent 

(Ind. street or alley) (feet) (feet) (Height=100) 

North 

South 

East 

West 

(If distance equals or exceeds height, no points deficient 
— if distance is less than height, actual score is same 
per cent of possible score as distance to height, e. g. if 
distance = 20% of heigh I. actual score =^20% of pos- 
sible score, etc.) 
WINDOW OPENINGS— II Points 



Window 

Space 
(Sq. Ft.) 



Floor 
Space 

(Sq. Ft.) 



Rooms 

(Indicate kit- 
chen, sleep- 
ing, bath, etc) 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Number of Rooms (including Dark Rooms) 

having window space less than 20% . . . 

Per Cent of same to total rooms 

Number of Dark Rooms 

Per Cent of same to total rooms 



Per Cent 
Window Space 

(Floor space- 
100) 



(18) 
3 



3 

3 

3 

(26) 

10 



( ) 



( ) 



(II) 



( ) 



( ) 



Actual 
Score 



i9io] 



Standardizing the Home 

DWELLING HOUSE SCORE CARD-Continued. 



27 



I.— DWELLING.— 100 POINTS. 



Points 

Possible Defi- 

Score cient 



Actual 
Score 



9. Total Window Space, not less than 20% of total floor space 
(Discredit X point for each deficiency of 1%-e. g. .window- 
space 16% 01 floor space, discredit 1 point, leaving actual 
score 4) 
Distribution of Window Space — 6 Points 

10. Deficient Rooms, no room less than 20% 

(Discredit same per cent of possible score as per cent of rooms 

having window space less 20%, e.g., 6 room house, 2 rooms 
deficient, discredit J of 3= 1 , leaving actual score 2 

11. Dark Rooms, no room without window openings 

(Discredit same per cent of possible score as per cent of dark! 

rooms, e. g.6 room house, 1 dark room, discredit, J of 3 = J4 
leaving actual score 2 '2) I 

Notice: darkroom isdiscredited also above as"deficient room" 
AIR AND VENTILATION— 13 Points I 

12. Heating Arrangements, adapted to secure circulation ofj 
fresh air such as open fire place, hot air furnace, stove] 

(connecting directly with chimney in same room) ! 

(Discredit 1 point for steam or hot water, K point for each! 
stove connecting with chimney in another room) ! 

13. Temperature, adapted to secure even temperature, notl 

excessive heat or cold, equal in different rooms ! 

(Discredit proportionately for each room without heating; 
appliance) I 

14. Dampness, freedom from (indicate whether cellar,' 
kitchen, sleeping rooms, other rooms) j 

STRUCTURAL CONDITION— 6 Points I 

15. Material, (Indicate whether wood, brick, stone, concretej 
no decayed wood, walls, floors, ceilings in good condition 
(Discredit i4 point for papered walls or ceiUngs) ' 

16. Size of Rooms, height of ceiling, not less than 9 feet . . . . | 
(Discredit X point for each foot deficient) ' 

•■ 17. Floor Space, (no room less than 120 sq. ft.) , 

(Discredit proportionatelv for each room less than 120 sq.fti 

HOUSE APPURTENANCES-^26 Points 

(Discredit total score in each'; case if appurtenance is not 
provided) 

18. Bath, (Discredit 2 points for bath used in common) .... 

19. Closet in Dwelling 

(Discredit 1 point for closet used in common, 2 for outhouse 

with sewer connection, 3 without sewer) 

20. Sink, (Discredit J'2 for sink used in common) 

21. Laundry, (Discredit K for common laundry) 



22. Running Water in house, (Discredit Ipoint for common 
hydrant, 2 for hydrant outside , 3 for well outside) 

23. Condition of Appurtenances, good material and work- 
tmanship, all pipes exposed 

24. Quality of Water for Drinking 

25. Quality of Water for Bath and Laundry 

DWELLING TOTAL 



(13) 



6 

(6) 



(26) 



6 

3 

3 

100 



( ) 



COST OF HOUSING 

Rent per month $ Rental value (if occupied by owner) $ . 

Unit of Comparison Nominal Rent 

Rent per room $ 

Rent per 100 sq. ft $ 

Rent per 1 ,000 cu. ft $ 

Probable income of family per month $ ■■^_^ 



Real Rent 



The foregoing applies solely to the house itself, or to the land- 
lord as responsible for the house. But the conditions of health 
and the cost of housing are modified by the habits and circum- 
stances of the occupants. These should be separated from the 
other problem by means of a separate score card. Here the prob- 



28 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[February 



lem of "congestion of occupancy" is paramount, and the unit of 
comparison is the "rent per occupant." The actual score on the 
"occupant" card becomes a coefficient of the actual score on the 
"dwelling" card, and this combined score gives the grading of the 
unit of housing accommodation as provided by the landlord and 
modified by the tenant. If, for example, two houses are scored 
80 and 50 respectively on the "dwelling" card, and the occupants 
of each are scored alike at 70 on the "occupant" card, the 
combined dwelling and occupant scores are 5 6 and 35 respectively. 
If, then, the nominal rent is $2.00 per occupant, the real rents are 
$3.57 and $5.71 per occupant, compared with $2.00 for the ideal 
dwelling occupied by the ideal tenant. 

DWELLING HOUSE SCORE CARD. 



II.— OCCUPANTS— 100 POINTS 



Possible 
Score 



CONGESTION OF OCCUPANCY— 6 1 Points 

Occupants, number 

Family, 10 years old and over, male 1 

" " " " " " female j 

Lodgers, Domestics, 10 years old and over, male 

" female 

Children under 1 years 

Total (Child under 10 as K oerson) 

1. Cubic Air Space, (average height of ceiling by total floor i 

space), cu. ft j 

Cu. ft. per occupant No discredit if 1000 or over 

(Discredit 1 point for each 20 ft. below 1000, e.g., 600 cu. | 
ft. discredit 20 points, leaving actual score 30) i 

2. Sleeping Rooms per occupant i 

(Discredit 1 point for each person in excess of number of 

sleeping rooms) 
CONDITION OF AIR AND VENTILATION— 18 Points 

3. Windows, kept open to fresh air 

Living rooms j 

Sleeping rooms 

4. Temperature, kept even, not excessive heat or cold 

5. Dust.care in avoiding dust by sweeping, no home workshop 
CLEANLINESS, care and attention, no rubbish, dirt, grease or 

refuse, — 21 Points 

6. Hallways 

7. Floors 

8. Walls 

9. Plumbing 

10. Yard 

OCCUPANTS TOTAL 

Rent per occupant, nominal $ 

Real rent per occupant (compared with standard) $. . . 



(61) 



(18) 

3 
6 
3 
6 

(21) 
3 
3 
3 
6 
6 
100 



Points 
Defi- 
cient 



( ) 



Actual 
Score 



( ) 



( ) 



( ) 



I wish to call attention to the pedagogical value of the score 
card as the basis of practical instruction in economics and 
sociology. This value has been conclusively demonstrated in 
our agricultural colleges, where the students begin their studies 
by using it on animals and cereals. It develops the student in 
his ideals of perfection, his accuracy of observation and his 
power of judgment. These are the great essentials of scientific 
education and they have been admirably stated by Mr. Craig 



iQio] Beginning of Education in Agriculture 29 

in his book, Judging Live Stock. He says, "to formulate an 
ideal is absolutely essential, and in doing this it is imperative to 
familiarize one's self with the good qualities of animal life, 
correct conformation and the highest types, so that the least 
variation from these at once attracts the attention. When a 
distinct ideal, based on the best types and their highest qualities, 
has been formed in the mind, and this is supported by a discrimi- 
nating eye, it is but another step to render a correct judgment." 

What Mr. Craig says of agricultural education is true also of 
sociological education. The score card directs attention to 
details often overlooked. It requires consideration of their 
meaning and significance. It sets up standards of precise ob- 
servation in place of vague or sentimental impressions of things 
in general. When perfected it will go far towards giving to Home 
Economics the character of a true science. 

THE BEGINNING OF EDUCATION IN AGRICULTURE 
AND HOME ECONOMICS IN NORTH AMERICA. 

Apparently agricultural education in North America had its 
beginning in the farm school which was established by Francois 
de Laval, the first bishop of Canada, in 1668 or about that date. 

Parkman" in one of his volumes on the early history of Canada, 
states that in 1647, which was only a few years after the founding 
of Harvard, the oldest college on the continent, Laval, with the 
approbation of Louis XIV, founded his seminary at Quebec for 
the training of priests. This seminary still exists as a part of the 
university afterwards established in honor of Laval. The 
Jesuit College, like the Church of Notre Dame of about the same 
date, was built of stone. It was begun in 1647 and the walls 
and roof were finished in 1649. The interior of the building was 
burned in 1701, much property being lost. 

Extending his educational system, Laval established in i668 
the Lesser Seminary where boys were educated in hope that they 
would one day take orders. This school began its work in a 
dwelling house with eight French and six Indian pupils,. He also 
established at this time a kind of farm school, which was attached 
to the seminary, for the training of the humbler class of pupils. 
This school was located at the Parish of St. Joachim, below 



aThe Old Regime in Canada. Boston, 1895, pp. 212, 289,347,409,411,412,414,434 
438. 



JO The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Quebec. Of the site selected Parkman writes, "From the vast 
meadows of the Parish of St. Joachim, that here border the St. 
Lawrence, there rises like an island a low flat hill, hedged round 
with forests Hke the tonsured head of a monk. It was here that 
Laval planted his school. ' ' At this school, according to Parkman 
"the children of artisans and peasants were taught farming and 
various mechanical arts and thoroughly grounded in the doctrines 
and discipline of the church"." 

In another place Parkman ,says "It was a sort of farm school, 
though besides farming various mechanical trades were also 
taught in it. It was well adapted to the wants of a great majority 
of Canadians, whose tendencies were anything but bookish. . , 
Besides manual training, the pupils were taught to read and 
write; and for a time a certain number of them received some 
instruction in Latin. When, in 1686, Saint- Vallier visited the 
school, he found in all thirty-one boys tmder the charge of two 
priests; but the number was afterwards greatly reduced, and 
the place served, as it still serves [1893], chiefly as a retreat during 
vacations for the priests and pupils of the seminary of Quebec. 
A spot better suited for such a purpose cannot be conceived." 

Parkman also says "Judging from repeated complaints of 
governors and intendants of the dearth of skilled workmen, the 
priests in charge of it were more successful- in making good 
Catholics than in making good masons, carpenters, blacksmiths, 
and weavers; and the number of pupils, even if well trained, was 
at no time sufficient to meet the wants of the colony ; for, though 
the Canadians showed an aptitude for mechanical trades, they 
preferred above all things the savage liberty of the backwoods." 
Parkman states on the authority of La Tour'' that most of the 
pupils trained at the industrial school were retained after leaving 
it by the seminary as servants, farmers, or vassals. 

According to a letter written in 1668 which Parkman quotes, 
the king also maintained a teacher of navigation aiid surveying 
at Quebec on the modest salary of four hundred francs per year, 

While Laval was founding educational institutions for boys, 
the problem of educating girls was being taken up by the Ursulines 
and the Nuns of the Congregation at Quebec. As most of the 



aAnnales du Petit Seminaire de Quebec, see Abeille, Vol. i; Notice Historique sur le 
Petit Seminaire de Quebec, Ibid., Vol., 11; Notice Historique sur la Paroisse de St. 
loachim, Ibid., Vol. I. The Abeille is a journal published by the seminary. 

bVie de Laval, VI. 



iQio] Beginning of Education in Agriculture 31 

secular teaching was along the lines of manual training and what 
is now grouped under the head of Home Economics, it may be 
truthfully said that formal education in this subject had its 
beginning in North America at the Convents in Quebec about the 
middle of the seventeenth century. In a letter dated August 9, 
1668, it is stated that the Ursulines besides careful instruction in 
religious duties, taught all that a girl ought to know. "This 
meant exceedingly little besides the manual arts suited to their 
sex; and, in the case of the Nuns of the Congregation, who taught 
girls of the poorer class, it meant still less. It was on nuns as 
well as on priests that the charge fell, not only of spiritual and 
mental, but also of industrial training. Thus we find the king 
giving to a sisterhood of Montreal a thousand francs to buy wool, 
and a thousand more for teaching girls to knit." 

The training which the girls received must have been very 
largely in household tasks, for spinning and weaving seem to 
have been very unusual until a much later date. The intendant 
Champigny made great efforts to induce the farmers to raise flax 
and hemp and begged that weavers be sent out to teach the 
women and girls how to weave and spin. These arts and the 
cultivation of hemp and flax were neglected, Parkman states, 
until 1705, "when the loss of a ship laden with goods for the 
colony gave the spur to home industry; and Madame de Repent- 
igny set the example of making a kind of coarse blanket of nettle 
and Hnden bark. . . 

"Of the arts of ornaments not much could have been expected; 
but, strangely enough, they were in somewhat better condition 
than the useful arts. The nuns of the Hotel-Dieu made artificial 
flowers for altars and shrines, ... and the boys of the 
seminary were taught to make carvings in wood for the decora- 
tion of churches." 



HIGHER EDUCATION IN HOME ECONOMICS 
IN IRELAND. 

H. L. Knight 
Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

For several years past the Department of Agriculture and 
Technical Instruction for Ireland has been seeking to encourage 
the introduction of Home Economics teaching into the educa- 
tional system in Ireland, where there is a growing conviction 
that the education of girls may, without any sacrifice of cidture, 
concern itself more closely with the daily needs of their future 
life. With this end in view the teaching of domestic subjects 
under the committees in charge of the county work has been 
rapidly developed and has proved very popular. In many 
girls' secondary schools a course in Domestic Econom)'- is now 
offered, based on a syllabus prepared by the department, and co- 
ordinate with the work in physics, chemistry and other science 
teaching. 

There are also eight Schools of Rural Domestic Economy under 
the management of the department. Most of these are held at 
convents in convenient localities, but are open to girls over 
sixteen years of age without restriction as to religion. A year's 
cotu-se of study is provided which is intended to qualify the pupils 
to perform efficiently the work of rural life. It includes in most 
cases dairying, poultry keeping, horticulture, household manage- 
ment, cookery, laundry work and needlework, and is open to 
applicants upon passing an examination in the elements of 
arithmetic and English and producing certificates of good health 
and character. Both resident and day pupils are admitted to 
most of the schools, and those at Loughlynn and Killeshandra 
make special provision for housewives and others unable to 
attend regularly. Somewhat similar courses are also offered at 
the Munster Institute, Cork, and the Ulster Dairy School, 
Cookstown, a brief account of which has already been given in 
the October number of the Journal. 

Although a large amount of good is being accomplished through 
these courses, they are distinctly secondary in scope and the 
time allowed is very limited, so that a need of more specialized 
teaching has been felt. To meet this need, it was decided to 

3a 



1 9 1 o ] Higher Edtication in Home Economics in Ireland 3 3 

establish residential schools for girls who had already received a 
good general secondary education, and to offer at these schools 
systematic instruction in housewifery. 

The initial plan contemplated two such schools, one in the 
north and the other in the south of Ireland. After some negotia- 
tion the nuns of the Ursuline Convent of Waterford undertook 
the school for the south and this has now been in very successful 
operation for about four years. 

The estabHshment of the school for the north was delayed 
owing to difficulty in finding a suitable location, but eventually 
it was opened on October 13, 1908, at Londonderry, in connection 
with the Victoria High School. 

The school, which is known as the Northlands School of 
Housewifery, occupies a building specially erected for the pur- 
pose and equipped as an ordinary dwelling hou.se, approximating 
as closely as possible to the actual conditions of home life. It is 
situated on high and open ground near the Victoria High School. 
Nearly all its rooms command beautiful views, and all are light, 
airy and spacious. One of the class-rooms is shown facing 
page 32. 

The course of study at Northlands is somewhat unique in that 
it combines the daily, continuous work of a real household with 
the formal classroom instruction. The students undertake in 
rotation the cleaning of rooms, staircases, kitchen range, etc., 
the preparation of the kitchen and laundry for classes, market- 
ing, and the preparation of meals. At the end of the course 
each student is given a practical test in which she is made 
responsible during a given time for the entire management of the 
house, including the planning of meals, the organization of the 
work of the .servants, the keeping of the accounts, and similar 
details. 

The class-room instruction covers an average of 17X hours per 
week, of which 6 hours are devoted to cooker> , 2 hours to laundry 
work, 4 hours to needle work, dress-making, upholstery, etc., 
3K hours to housewifery, and iK hours to the preparation of 
notes and extra needlework. It is expected that this will occupy 
the full time of the students, but the work is so arranged that if 
desired some subject of art or Hterature may be substituted 
for a portion of the course. There is also a combined course in 
which students may proceed with the usual educational subjects 



34 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

at the Victoria High School. A diploma is given at the comple- 
tion of the Northlands course. 

Such has been the success attained at this school and also at 
that at Waterford that there has been a strong demand for a 
third institution of like grade, and this has been met by the 
adoption of a similar curriculum by the Ursuline Convent at 
St. Joseph's, Sligo. This is a large and well-established resi- 
dential secondary school, which had already carried on the course 
in Domestic Science outlined by the Department of Agriculture 
and Technical Instruction with conspicuous success. Special 
attention had been given to the matter of equipment, and the 
convent authorities had provided a well-equipped and modem 
laundry, kitchen, dairy, poultry yard, etc. Electric power had 
been installed throughout and there is a producer gas plant, gas 
engine and dynamo in charge of one of the Sisters. This equip- 
ment was immediately available for use in more specialized 
instruction in Domestic Economy and tne department adopted 
the proposal to aid and recognize the instruction given. This 
includes not only cookery, laundry work, housewifery and 
dressmaking, but also dairying, poultry keeping, and some 
instruction in the laws of health, literature and other more or 
less directly utilitarian studies. A view of the kitchen of the 
school is shown facing page 32. 

Reference should also be made in this article to the summer 
courses for teachers in Ireland. These are also held under the 
direction of the Department of Agriculture and Technical 
Instruction, chief! j'' as a means of training teachers now in the 
service. The courses were begun in 1901 and have since been 
continued without interruption. They are held at the Royal 
College of Science, the Metropolitan School of Art, other central 
institutions administered by the department, numerous convents, 
and elsewhere. The curriculum extends over about one month 
and includes general experimental science, manual training, 
school gardening, drawing and modelling, and related topics, but 
special courses are offered in rural economy, revival of Irish 
industries, and Domestic Economy. The Domestic Economy 
course embraces cookery, elements of physiology and hygiene, 
sewing, embroidery, dressmaking, lace making, crotchet work, 
and sprigging. In 1909, 12 courses related to Domestic Economy 
were held at 9 institutions with a total attendance of 132 students. 




Instruction- in Cookery at Ursuline Convent, St. Joseph's, Sligo, Ireland. 




iss-ROOM, Northlands (Irelan: 



PROGRESS IN NUTRITION, 1908-9^ 

C. F. Langworthy. 

Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Such a paper as has been prepared must of necessity be selec- 
tive as regards material included, and it has been the purpose to 
select representative material which shows in a general way the 
progress which is being made in various lines of the general sub- 
ject of nutrition and to give preference to American work rather 
than to that of other countries, as we are naturally particularly 
interested in the progress which is being made in the United 
States and Canada. 

As regards the period covered, it has been the purpose to take 
up the subject where it was left by the paper presented at the 
Chautauqua meetihg of the Lake Placid Conference in 1908 and 
carry it to the close of the year, 1909. 

The material has been arranged under certain general headings, 
such as studies of the composition of foods and character of the 
principal food constituents, dietary studies and dietary standards 
and school luncheons and the feeding of children. 

The question of pure food legislation and the use of preserva- 
tives and similar topics constitute special subjects on which so 
much has been published that they deserve an independent sum- 
mary. Therefore, no attempt will be made to review work in 
these lines. The same may be said of statistical data regarding 
the production and marketing of food, the proportion of the family 
income expended for food, and the relative cost of food at the 
present time as compared with other years. The subject of milk 
and other dairy products and that of infant feeding are also ques- 
tions which merit independent summaries, and, so, brief reference 
will be made to only a few investigations along such lines. 

Analysis and Special Studies of the Composition of Food. 

Methods of analysis as usual have received a great deal of atten- 
tion. Albahary (Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci. [Paris], 146 (1908), 
No. 7, pp. 336-338) proposes a more detailed scheme than that 
usually followed for the proximate analysis of vegetable products. 

In connection with methods of examination and analysis men- 



aPresented before the Boston Convention of the American Home Economics Association, 
January i, 1910. 

35 



36 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

tion should be made of the work of Howard on the use of the 
microscope for the detection of food adulteration which was 
summarized in the Department of Agriculture Yearbook (U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Yearbook, 1907, pp. 379-384, pis. 4). 

Briggs of the Bureau of Plant Industry of the Department has 
reported (U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Plant Indus. Circ. 20, pp. 8, figs. 
3), an interesting method for determining the moisture content 
of grain which depends upon variations in electrical resistance. 
In experiments with wheat it was found that this factor was 50 
times greater in wheat containing 13 per cent of moisture than in 
wheat containing 15 per cent. An advantage claimed for this 
method is its rapidity, the individual determinations requiring 
only two or three minutes. 

In a paper on the determination of carbon by means of the 
bomb calorimeter. Fries (Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 31 (1909), No. 
2, pp. 272-278, fig. i) concludes that carbon dioxid may be deter- 
mined with great accuracy by a modifiv^ation of the Atwater 
Berthelot bomb, and also reports data which indicate that the 
bomb may be used equally well for the determination of hydrogen. 

Much contention has always existed as to the terminology of 
nitrogenous constituents of foods, foodstuffs, and other materials, 
so particular interest attaches to the report of the joint committee 
of physiologists and biochemists on this matter (Science, N.S., 
27 (1908), pp. 554-556). The principal recommendation is that 
the word "proteid" be abandoned and that "protein" be used 
to designate substances which consist so far as is known at 
present essentially of combinations of x-amino acids and their 
derivatives. 

In connection with studies of many nutrition problems analy- 
tical data have accumulated to a considerable amount but no 
attempt is made to summarize such incidental analyses here. Of 
special analytical studies the following may be mentioned: 

Many analyses, particularly of tropical fruits were reported by 
Merrill of the Maine Experiment Station, (Maine Sta. Bui. 158, 
pp. 219-238), together with studies of the digestibility of hulled 
com, the values obtained being low in comparison with white 
bread. 

As part of a study of breakfast foods Frear of the Pennsylvania 
State College (Penn. Dept. Agr. Bui. 162, pp. 40), has examined 
these goods with reference to the alleged occasional presence of 
materials such as morphin and strychnin with negative results, a 



igio] Progress in Nutrition, iQo8-g 37 

matter which is of interest in connection with the persistence of 
popular statements to the effect that cereal breakfast foods some- 
times contain such materials, a statement apparently without 
any foundation of fact. 

In History, Manufacture and Analysis of Maple Products, Sy 
(Jour. Franklin Inst., 166 (1908), pp. 249-280; abs. in Chem. 
Abs., 2 (1908), No. 24, p. 3376) summarizes a large amount of 
historical, botanical, and chemical data and reports the analysis 
of maple products and experimental work carried on in an 
attempt to isolate flavoring substances present in sap. 

Van Dine and Miss Alice R. Thompson (Hawaii Sta. Bui. 17, 
pp. 7-21, pi. i) have reported an extended and interesting study 
of Hawaiian honeys, a number of which consist chiefly or entirely 
of honey-dew which the bees collect instead of plant nectar after 
it has been exuded by insects. 

The amount of extractive material in light and dark meat was 
studied by Adler (Berlin. Klin. Wchnschr., 45 (1908), No. 8, pp. 
393-396) with beef, veal, pork, chickens, and fish (raw and 
cooked). The results obtained led Adler to conclude that suffi- 
cient differences existed in the amount of nitrogenous extractives 
present in beef and veal to justify the classification into "red" 
and "white" meat. In the case of white meats, he found that 
boiling removed more extractive nitrogen than roasting. The 
results he obtained were discussed with special reference to 
invalid dietetics. 

Several extended investigations have been reported of the 
chemical composition of fish. Reuss (Ber. K. Bayer. Biol. Vers. 
Stat. Munchen, vol. i, pp. 185-220; abs. in Chem. Zentbl., 1908, 
I, No. 12, p. 1 193) considered, in this connection, the effect of 
growth and environment and included lecithin and calcium in his 
analytical work, in addition to the usual proximate constituents. 
According to his results, the water in which the fish live has an 
effect upon their growth and nutrition. 

Milroy (Ann. Rpt. Fishery, Bd. Scot., 24 (1905), pt. 3, pp. 83- 
107; 25 (1906), pt. 3, pp. 197-208; Bio-Chem. Jour., 3 (1908), 
Nos. 6-8, pp. 366-390) has reported a very extended series of 
analytical studies of herring taken on different parts of the Scotch 
coast and has discussed his results with reference to changes which 
the herring undergo before, during, and after the spawning period. 
Phosphoric acid and in some cases the coagulable muscle proteins 
were determined in addition to the proximate conditions. 



38 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

A large amount of data was summarized and discussed by 
J. Konig and A. Splittgerber (Landw. Jahrb., 38 (1909), Sup. 4, 
pp. 1-169, pis. 6; Ztschr. Untersuch. Nahr. u. Genussmtl., 18 
(1909), No. 9, pp. 497-537, fig. i) regarding the storing, curing, 
and preservation of fish, the composition, nutritive value, and 
importance as food of fish and fish products, together with 
analyses of such materials, which include in some cases a num- 
ber of constituents in addition to the usual proximate constitu- 
ents. In several instances elementary analyses were also made. 
In general, the authors conclude that fish flesh is as easily and 
well digested as meat and that it may constitute a very import- 
ant source of nutritive material. Under German conditions the 
authors believe that sea fish must be selected rather than fresh- 
water fish if it is desirable to lower the cost of the diet by using 
fish flesh in place of meat. As a whole, the article constitutes 
an exhaustive study, more particularly with reference to Ger- 
man conditions, of the value of fish as rood from the standpoint 
of commercial importance, economy, and nutritive value, as 
shown by chemical composition. 

The question of oysters, particularly their water content and 
the presence of copper, has also been studied in connection with 
the work of the Indiana State Board of Health (Mo. Bui. Ind. 
Bd. Health, 10 (1908), No. 11, pp. 134-136, fig. i). 

Riviere and Bailhache have studied the influence of direct light 
on the chemical composition of fruits and found (Jour. Soc. Nat. 
Hort. France, 4. ser., 9 (1908), Nov., pp. 627-630) that the side 
of pears exposed to the sun showed a greater sugar content and a 
lesser acid content than the unexposed side. Similar results were 
obtained with grapes. 

Prinsen Geerligs (K. Akad. Wetensch. Amsterdam Proc. Sect. 
Sci., II (1908), pp. 74-84; abs. in Jour. Chem. Soc. [London], 94 
(1908), No. 553, II, p. 977) has studied the varied changes in com- 
position of mangoes, tamarinds, bananas, and sapodillas during 
ripening. 

Kayser (Ztschr. Ofifentl. Chem., 15 (1909), No. 10, pp. 187-188) 
reports that the principal acid constituent of pineapple 
juice is citric acid. Tartaric and malic acid were not found. 
Apparently, citric acid is much more widely distributed in fruit 
juices than has been supposed. Scuppemong, Concord, and 
Catawba grape juice was studied by Gore of the Bureau of Chem- 
istry (Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem. i (1909), p. 436). 



iQio] Progress in NiUrition, I Qo8-p 39 

Vfnson of the Arizona Experiment Station has continued his 
important studies of the ripening of fruits, particularly -dates, and 
finds that ripening may be so stimulated in this fruit by exposure 
to acetic acid fumes that dates may be shipped green and then 
ripened where sold, a matter of much importance as the fresh ripe 
date is so soft it will not bear shipment. Involved in his work is 
an extended study of date constituents and date chemistry 
(Science, n. s., 30 (1909), p. 604). 

Eggs. — Lewin, Miethe, and Stenger (Arch. Physiol. [Pfliiger], 
124 (1908), pp. 585-590; abs. in Jour. Chem. Soc. [London], 94 
(1908), No. 554, II, p. 1054) studied the coloring matter of egg 
yolk by means of the spectroscope and found characteristic 
bands. The fat of hens' eggs has been studied by Paladino 
(Biochem. Ztschr., 17 (1909), No. 4, pp. 356-360), and the lecithin 
of the egg yolk by MacLean (Ztschr. Physiol. Chem., 59 (1909), 
Nos. 3-4, pp. 223-229). Plimmer has studied the proteids of egg 
yolk (Jour. Chem. Soc. [London], 93 (1908), No. 550, I, pp. 1500- 
1506) and Worms (Zhur. Russ. Fiz. Khim. Obshch., 38 (1906), 
pp. 597-607; abs. in Ztschr. Untersuch. Nahr. u. Genussmtl. 16 
(1908), No. 6, pp. 363, 364), the albumen of turkey egg white. 

The infection and preservation of eggs was studied by Lamson, 
Jr. (Connecticut Storrs Sta. Bui. 55, pp. 203-214, figs. 7) of the 
Connecticut Storrs Experiment Station. 

In a bulletin entitled The Egg Trade of the United States, 
Hastings (U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Anim. Indus. Circ. 140, pp. 34) 
discusses eggs from the standpoint of the dealer as well as the 
consumer and such questions are considered as quality in eggs; 
grade of eggs; detrimental changes in eggs; and consequent 
losses; the consumers' position; methods of marketing eggs; 
storage and preservation of eggs. 

The collection, use and characteristics of penguin eggs, which 
are used to a considerable extent in South Africa have been 
described in a popular article. (Sci. Amer. Sup., 66 (1908), No. 
1716, p. 330). 

Aufrecht and Simon (Deut. Med. Wchnschr., 34 (1908), No. 53, 
pp. 2308-2310), from the results of a single digestion experiment 
with a healthy man in which raw and soft boiled eggs were eaten 
in comparison with meat as a part of a simple mixed diet, conclude 
that the raw eggs have the higher digestibility and nutritive 
value. In this connection it may be said that the differences 
observed are well within variations found in digestion work and 



40 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

that circumstances would seem to warrant the conclusion simply 
that eggs eaten in both ways are well assimilated. 

J. T. Willard and R. H. Shaw (Kansas Sta. Bui. 159) report 
analyses of a large number of eggs and give data regarding the 
thickness of the shell and the percentage of phosphoric acid in the 
ash of the yolk. The ash consists quite largely of this constituent 
doubtless derived almost entirely from the egg yolk lecithin. 

Meat and Meat Products. — Trowbridge and his associates, of the 
Department of Agricultural Chemistry of the University of 
Missouri, have studied the determination of phosphorus in flesh 
(Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., i (1909), p. 675), changes in the 
composition of the skeleton of beef animals (Ibid. p. 725), and the 
composition of the fat of beef animals on different planes of nutri- 
tion (Ibid, p. 761). 

Grindley and his associates, of the University of Illinois, have 
reported extended work on the chemistry of flesh, raw and cooked, 
with reference to the effects of cold storage, both beef and poultry 
being used (Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., i (1909), pp. 413, 580. 
The results are reported in detail and it is difficult to summarize 
them in short space. In brief, an increase was noted during 
storage in the soluble dry matter, nitrogenous, non-nitrogenous, 
and total organic extractives, total soluble nitrogen and soluble 
inorganic phosphorus, the differences being greater with long 
than with short periods of storage. 

W. Koch has summarized data on phosphorus compounds as 
brain foods (Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 52 (1909), pp. 1381-1383), 
and presents data on the composition of normal and diseased brain. 
He concludes that phosphorus is amply supplied for the growth 
of the brain by the ordinary daily food. If desired, the phos- 
phorus constituents of the diet may be readily increased by 
adding such materials as eggs, sweetbread, liver, and some 
meats. He does not recommend the use of commercial phos- 
phorus preparations. 

Meat extracts and yeast extracts. — The origin, manufacture, and 
uses of meat extract, particularly the Argentine meat extract 
industry have been described in the London Lancet (Lancet 
[London], 1908, II, No. 17, pp. 1233-1244, figs. 8, dgm. i, maps 3). 

Many studies have been made of meat extract, particularly 
concerning the character of the so-called meat bases which it con- 
tains. As an illustration may be mentioned Kutscher's work. 
(Zentbl. Physiol., 21 (1907), No. 18, pp. 586, 587). 



igio] Progress in Nutrition, I go8-g 41 

One of the most important contributions to the subject of meat 
extract is that by Bigelow and Cook entitled Meat Extracts and 
Similar Preparations Including Studies of the Methods of Analysis 
Employed (U. S. Dept. Agr. Bur. Chem. Bui. 114), which reports 
the results of the analysis of a large number of commercial goods 
of this character, discusses the composition, food value, and uses 
of such goods, methods of manufacture and many other questions, 
and is a digest of useful data regarding this class of food products. 

Street and his associates report from the Connecticut State 
Experiment Station (Connecticut State Sta. Rpt. 1907-8, pt. 9, 
pp. 573-716), an exhaustive study of meat extracts and similar 
goods, of the same general character as the work of the Bureau 
of Chemistry, and a very important and useful summary of 
data and report of analytical work. Yeast extracts are included 
as well as meat extracts. 

The question of yeast extracts has also been discussed by Gam- 
gee (Brit. Med. Jour., 1908, No. 2486, pp. 449-453) and Chapman 
(Brit. Med. Jour., 1908, No. 2502, pp. 1741-1743). 

Milk and Dairy Products. — As already noted, the subject of 
milk, butter, cream, dairy products, and dairying is so large that 
it deserves an independent summary. Students of nutrition will 
perhaps be specially interested in experiment station tests of 
milking machines as it is believed that these may result in a clean- 
er milk supply. The problem has been studied by Haecker and 
Little of the Nebraska Station (Nebraska Sta. Bui. 108, pp. 3-73, 
pi. I, figs. 4) and many others. 

McGill of the Inland Revenue Department of Canada has 
published (Lab. Inland Rev. Dept. Canada Bui. 185, pp. 15) a 
bulletin on infant's and invalid's foods which contains a good deal 
of data regarding the chemical composition of proprietary articles 
of this sort. 

Melick of the Maryland Experiment Station has reported 
(Maryland Sta. Bui. 136, pp. 285-300), the result of an extended 
series of experiments on the factors which influence the whipping 
of cream, while Michels of the North Carolina Experiment Station 
supplies (North Carolina Sta. Bui. 202, pp. 5-1 1, figs. 3) a large 
amount of data regarding the manufacture of cottage cheese and 
skimmilk-butter milk, so much sold at the present time under the 
title of "buttermilk," but which it is said is made by churning 
sour skim milk so that the curd is finely broken and evenly 
distributed throughout the whey. 



4,2 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The Use of Milk as Food, a Farmers' Bulletin of which R. D. 
Milner is the author (U. S. Dept. Agr. Farmers' Bui. 363), 
summarizes and discusses data on the composition, digestibility 
and food value of milk and milk products, the use of these 
materials in the home and other related topics. 

Fats and Oils. — With reference to the assimilation of animal 
and vegetable fat by man, Gerlach (Ztschr. Diatet. u. Phys. Ther., 
12 (1907), p. 102; abs. in Biochem. Centbl., 7 (1908), No. 13, pp. 
497, 498), reaches the conclusion that there are no differences in 
this respect. He experimented with butter and a commercial 
butter substitute prepared from cocoanut fat. 
: ' Levites has also studied the digestion of fat in the animal body, 
using egg-yolk fat, olive oil and other fats. Experiments were 
made with dogs, and according to him, when fat is fed either alone 
or mixed with other foodstuffs only a very small quantity is 
saponified in the stomach. (Biochem. Ztschr., 20 (1909), Nos. 
3-5, pp. 220-223). 

Leathes' paper on the functions of the liver in relation to the 
metabolism of fats is an important contribution (Lancet [London] 
1909, I, No. 9, pp. 593-599) to the physiology of fat digestion. 

Olive oil and cooking oils, which latter are usually refined 
cotton-seed oils, are discussed by Allen and Hill of the North 
Carolina Department of Agriculture, (Bui. N.- C. Dept. Agr., 29 
(1908), No. 12, pp. 80). Apparently, olive oil is not adulterated 
at present, while cotton-seed oils used for cookery are seldom 
adulterated. The authors conclude "that some of the cooking 
oils are very desirable for culinary purposes." 

In connection with the subject of oils, it is interesting to men- 
tion that considerable work has been done regarding the effect of 
rancid oil on the destruction of red blood corpuscles. It appears 
from the data reported that the free fatty acid has a marked 
effect of this character. Among the workers in this field have 
been Moore, Wilson and Hutchinson (Jour. Physiol., 38 (1909) 
No. 5, pp. Ixxiii-lxxiv. 

Tea, Coffee and Chocolate. — Togami (Biochem. Ztschr., 9 (1908) 
Nos. 5-6, pp. 453-462) has studied the effects of tea, coffee and 
chocolate and draws the general conclusion that when of ordinary 
strength the beverages exercise no harmful effect upon digestive 
ferments. If, however, the infusions are very strong, the reverse 
may be the case, as was shown by tests with tea. 



iQio] Progress in Nutrition, igo8-g 43 

Fauvel (Compt. Rend. Soc. Biol. [Paris], 64 (1908), No. 17, pp. 
854-856, dgm. i), has found that both coffee and chocolate in- 
creased markedly the purins in the urine but notably diminished 
the uric acid without at the same time causing a retention of this 
acid in the body. 

The aroma of black tea, according to Katayama (Bui. Imp. 
Cent. Agr. Expt. Sta. Japan, i (1907), No. 2, pp. 149-152; abs. in 
Chem. Ztg., 32 (1908), No. 21, Repert., p. 135), is due to an enzym 
which acts upon a glucosid present in the leaf. His experimental 
work on the subject is not yet completed. 

As regards coffee, Gorter (Bui. Dept. Agr. Indes N^erland., 
1907, No. 14, pp. 62; Liebig's Ann. Chem., 358 (1908), No. 3, pp. 
327-348; 359 (1908), Nos. 1-2, pp. 217-244) concludes that the 
caffetannic acid of earlier investigators is not a distinct compound 
but a mixture of chlorogenic acid, coffalic acid, and other sub- 
stances, the chlorogenic acid being the dibasic chlorogenic acid 
existing in the form of caffein potassium salt. Other constituents 
of coffee are included in Gorter's extended chemical study of the 
subject. 

Hartwich and Du Pasquier (Apoth. Ztg., 24 (1909), No. 14, pp. 
130, 131) have reported analyses and discussed them with refer- 
ence to judging the quality of tea, while Grimshaw (Brit. Food 
Jour. II (1909), No. 121, p. 3) has contributed data on the effects 
of coffee and the use of chicory. In his opinion chicory may 
exercise a harmful influence and should not be regarded as inert, 
as is commonly supposed. 

Ash Coxstituents of Food and Food Diseases. 

Hart and his associates at the Wisconsin Station have continued 
(Amer. Jour. Physiol., 23 (1909), No. 4, pp. 246-277), the impor- 
tant work on the role of inorganic phosphorus in the nutrition of 
animals, which was begun at the New York Experiment Station 
at Geneva by Jordan and Hart and which has to do quite largely 
with phytin, a phosphorus constituent of wheat bran. The object 
of the experiments in the present report was to determine whether 
inorganic phosphates could take the place of organic phosphates 
in a ration for growing animals, pigs being used as subjects. 

"The marked reduction on the quantity of ash of the bones of 
the animal receiving an insufficient supply of calcium phosphates, 
together with the ability of the animal to build up a skeleton very 



44 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

rich in calcium phosphate when an abundance of the latter is sup- 
plied in inorganic forms, strongly points to the possession of a 
synthetic power b}^ the animal which enables it to convert inor- 
ganic forms of phosphorus into the organic forms demanded by 
its body." 

Similar problems have been studied by a number of foreign 
investigators. 

Hart and his associates (Am.er. Jour. Physiol., 24 (1909), No. i, 
pp. 86-103) also reported on the role of the ash constituents of 
wheat bran in the metabolism of herbivora, and Hart and Tott- 
ingham (Jour. Biol. Chem., 6 (1909), No. 5, pp. 431-444) 
on the nature of the acid soluble phosphorus compounds of some 
important feeding materials. 

An interesting publication which has to do with the ash consti- 
tuents and their importance in the diet is The Mineral Elements 
in Animal Nutrition, (Ohio Sta. Bui. 201, pp. 127-172), by Forbes 
of the Ohio Experiment Station, which summarizes data of value 
from the standpoint of human nutrition as well as animal feeding. 
A second paper on this topic by Forbes bears the title The Balance 
Between Inorganic Acids and Bases in Animal Nutrition (Ohio 
Sta. Bui. 207). 

The metabolism of organic and inorganic phosphorus has also 
been studied by Cook of the Bureau of Chemistry (U. S. Dept. 
Agr. Bur. Chem. 123, pp. 63, pis. 3). 

The work of Goodall and Joslin (Trans. Assoc. Am^er. Physi- 
cians, 23 (1908), pp. 92-106) on ash-free diet is of interest in this 
connection. 

Interesting and suggestive papers which have to do with the 
mineral metabolism of the body have been published by Diesing 
and Aufrecht, (Zentbl. Gesam. Physiol, u. Path. Stoffwechsels, n. 
ser., 4 (1909), No. 6, pp. 209-216); Zentbl. Gesam. Physiol, u. 
Path. Stoffwechsels, n. ser., 4 (1909), No. 10, pp. 369-371) ,which 
deal with the function of certain glands particularly with refer- 
ence to the metabolism of iodin, arsenic, iron, and sulphur. 
According to the summary, iodin metabolism is regulated by the 
thyroid, arsenic by the thymus, iron by the spleen, sulphur by the 
suprarenal capsules, calcium by the reproductive organs, and 
potassium by the pancreas. In general, the specific glandular 
constituents which regulate mineral metabolism are pigments. 
If further investigation should confirm this work, it would mark 



igio] Progress in Nutrition, igo8-g 45 

an important step forward not only in the question of mineral 
metabolism but in the subject of metabolism in general. 

The use of various food products as original or contributing 
causes of various diseases is a subject on which important contri- 
butions have recently been made. As an instance may be cited 
the work of Lavinder of the U. S. Public Health and Marine 
Hospital Service (Pub. Health and Marine Hosp. Serv. U. S.,1908, 
pp. 22), and a number of Italian students on Indian corn and its 
relation to pellagra. Pellagra, it will be recalled, is a disease most 
commonly attributed to the use as food of spoiled Indian corn, 
the dangerous micro-organism present being very resistant to 
heat and so not necessarily destroyed by the usual methods of 
household cookery. The character of the zein, the principal con- 
stituent of maize, and the deficiency of corn in ash constituents 
have also been suggested as causes of pellagra and studied with 
reference to the use of this material in very large quantities as a 
feeding stuff and for human food. Mention may be made in this 
connection of Bezzola's paper (Clin. Med. Ital., 46 (1907), No. 3, 
pp. 161-164; abs. in Biochem. Centbl., 7 (1908), Nos. 18-19, P- 
699) on the effect of maize diet. 

The question of rice and beriberi has been discussed by W. Flet- 
cher (Jour. Trop. Med. andHyg. [London], 12 (1909), No. 9, pp. 127- 
134, pi. i) and others and the consensus of opinion seems to be 
that uncured rice, that is, rice which is stored without previous 
cooking, is a cause of this disease, and that presumably the 
disease is of bacterial origin though a number of investigators 
have believed that possibly the deficiency of ash and protein con- 
stituents in rice may have something to do with the problem. 

Mention may also be made of Rosenheim and Kajiura's (Jour. 
Physiol., 36 (1908), No. 6, pp. LIV, LV) extended study of the 
proteids of rice and the possible relation of this constituent to 
beriberi. In accordance with the results of earlier investigators, 
no gluten was found in the rice grain, which obviously explains the 
unsuitability of rice alone for bread making purposes. 

A paper of unusual interest from the fact that it furnishes 
scientific evidence for the old household belief that eating buck- 
wheat in quantity may cause rash and other skin troubles, has been 
published by Ohmke (Zentbl. Physiol., 22 (1908), No. 22, pp. 
685-686) who found that white animals, that is, animals whose 
skin is not protected from light by a dark colored coat, when fed 



46 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

buckwheat and exposed to light, developed a disease of the skin, 
and who isolated from the buckwheat grain a fluorescent body 
which apparently is connected with fagopyrismus, the buckwheat 
disease. 

Wheat, Flour, Bread. 

Chamberlain's work at the Bureau of Chemistry (U. S. Dept. 
Agr., Bur. Chem. Bui. 1 20, pp. 64) , on the feeding value of cereals, 
though primarily undertaken from the standpoint of animal nu- 
trition, supplies a large amount of data regarding the composition 
of cereal grains. 

Milling and baking tests have been reported by a number of 
investigators in the United States and Canada. Waldron of the 
North Dakota Station has reported (North Dakota Sta., Rpt. 
Dickinson Substa. 1908, pp. 24-26, pi. i) milling and baking tests 
with a number of varieties including Russian wheats. Stewart 
and Greaves (Utah Sta. Bui. 103, pp. 243-276, figs. 2) have 
studied the milling of a large number of samples of Utah wheats 
grown under different conditions, including both the common 
bread varieties and durum wheats. 

Questions of the milling qualities of wheat have been studied 
by Thatcher of the Washington Experiment Station, (Washing- 
ton Sta. Popular Bui. 6, pp. 4), by Brunnicb of the Queensland 
Dept. of Agriculture, (Ann. Rept. Dept. Agr. and Stock [Queens- 
land], 1906-7, pp. 62-68), and by Saunders (Canada Expt. Farms 
Rpts. 1907, pp. 219-223). Work with Manitoba wheats has been 
reported by Saimders and Shutt of the Canadian Experimental 
Farms (Canada Cent. Expt. Farm Bui. 60, pp. 7-21), and wheat 
and flour testing has also been studied by Harcourt of the Ontario 
Agricultural College (Ann. Rpt. Ontario Agr. Col. and Expt. 
Farm, 34 (1908), pp. 79-87). Ladd (North Dakota Sta. Bui. 82, 
pp. 717-793), reported milling and baking tests with durum and 
other North Dakota wheats. 

The storages of wheat and flour have been studied by several 
investigators. Leavitt and LeClerc of the Bureau of Chemistry 
have published a paper (Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem. i (1909), 
No. 5, pp. 209-302) on changes in the composition of unground 
cereals during storage. Bell (Oper. Miller, 13 (1908), No. 12, pp. 
591, 592, figs. 4; Bakers' Helper, 22 (1908), No. 260, pp. 1132- 
1134, figs. 4; Amer. Miller, 37 (1909), No. 4, pp. 280. 281, fig. i), 



igio] Progress in Nutrition, I go8-g 47 

has reported interesting data on the changes which take place 
in stored flour. 

Few subjects connected with the chemistry of a staple article 
of diet has been studied more extensively during the period 
covered by this review than the character of wheat gluten, the 
estimation of gluten and gliadin, the relation of these constituents 
of wheat to bread making, the proportion of water which flour 
will absorb and related matters. Of American work which has 
been reported may be mentioned Shaw's tests of a polariscopic 
method for determining gliadin (Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 29 
(1907), No. 12, pp. 1747-1750); and Mathewson's studies of the 
estimation of gliadin (Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 30 (1908), No. i, 
pp. 74-81). Osborne's work on gluten is cited in another section 

(P48). 

Turning to foreign work, that reported by Hoffmann and Plcetz 
on the estimation of the water which flour will absorb should be 
noted (Ztschr. Spiritusindus., 31 (1908), No. 5, pp. 42-43). 
Gluten from the standpoint of physical chemistry has been studied 
by Wood and Hardy (Proc. Roy. Soc. [London], Ser. B, 81 (1909), 
No. B 545, pp. 38-43, figs. 2; abs. in Jour. Chem. Soc. [London], 
96 (1909), No. 559, I, p. 341). Liebig's studies (Landw. Jahrb., 
38 (1909), No. 2. pp. 251-271) of the sugar content of fine white 
flour dough before and after fermentation and the diastasic value 
of white flour are an interesting contribution to the subject of 
bread making problems. Vandevelde and his associates have 
also reported (separate from Verslag. en Meded. K. Vlaam. Akad. 
Taal en Letterk., 1908, pp. 493-526), experiments on bread fer- 
mentation. 

Of interest in relation to bread making investigations is the 
paper by Crocker (Rpt. Ann. Meeting Biscuit and Cracker Manfrs. 
Assoc, 1908, pp. 16-18) on checking or cracking in biscuits and 
crackers and its prevention. 

In connection with bread and bread making, Roussel (Rev. M. 
Serv. Intend. Mil. [Paris], 20 (1907), No. 152, pp. 122-131; abs. 
in Rev. Hyg. et Pol. Sanit., 29 (1907), No. 8, pp. 722, 723) has 
made tests of the possibility of the survival of pathogenic bacteria 
in bread after baking. According to his observations, the tem- 
perature in the crumb of bread during baking ranged from loi to 
io3°C. and in the crust from 125 to 140°. The author also studied 
the effect of such temperatures on tuberculosis bacilli artificially 



48 The Journal of Home Economics rpebruary 

introduced into the dough with special reference to the question 
of the employment of tubercular subjects in bakeries, his results 
being against such a practice. 

The report of the Wisconsin Bakers' Institute (Bien. Rpt. Bur. 
Labor and Indus. Stat. [Wis.] 3 (1906-7), pt. 5, pp. 683-840, figs. 
49), discussing baking problems should be noted as it shows an 
intelligent desire on the part of bakers to cooperate in the effort 
which is being made under Wisconsin law to insure clean bakeries. 
The report cited contains a number of papers of general interest, 
among which may be mentioned The Inner Structure of the 
Grain as Related to Flour and Bread, by N. A. Cobb; Fermenta- 
tion in Bread Making, by W. D. Frost, in which the question of 
malt extracts in conjunction with yeasts to improve fermentation, 
and similar problems are discussed; Bake Shop Hygiene and 
Sanitation, by M. P. Ravenel; and a similar paper by C. B. Ball. 

Protein Cleavage Products. 

One of the most important series of investigations along chemi- 
cal lines dealing with nutrition reported in the United States, is 
that which has to do with the hydrolysis of proteids of different 
sorts carried on at the Connecticut State Experiment Station at 
New Haven by Osborne and his associates, an investigation which 
has extended over a number of years. In the period covered by 
this review Osborne and associates have studied the hydrolysis of 
vicilin (Jour. Biol. Chem., 5 (1908), Nos. 2-3, pp. 187-195) and of 
legumelin of peas (Jour. Biol. Chem., 5 (1908), Nos. 2-3, pp. 197- 
205); the vignin of the cowpea {Vigna sinensis) (Amer. Jour. 
Physiol., 22 (1908), No. 3, pp. 362-372) ; the hydrolysis of vitellin 
from the hen's egg (Ibid. 24, (1909), No. i, pp. 153-160); the 
hydrolysis of the muscle of scallop (Ibid. pp. 1 6 i-i 69) ; the hydrol- 
ysis of crystallized albumen from hen's egg (Ibid. No. 2, pp. 
252-262); and the hydrolysis of fish muscle (Ibid. pp. 81-89). 

In a paper on the different forms of nitrogen in proteins Os- 
borne and his associates (Amer. Jour. Physiol., 23 (1908), No. 3, 
pp. 180-200) have summarized some of their important deduc- 
tions on determinations of the actual quantities of histidin, arginin, 
and lysin obtained in the cleavage products of protein which show 
that they vary markedly, particularly as to the yield of arginin 
and lysin and that proteids, "when arranged in the order of their 
yield of arginin, fall into three groups. First the oil seeds, then 



19 lo] Progress in Nutrition, I go8-g 49 

the leguminous seeds, and finally the cereal grains — the only- 
exception being, the glutelin of maize, which is one of the least 
well characterized and studied of all the proteins in the list, and 
may be a mixture of several different proteins. 

"We have in the chemical constitution of these seeds proteins 
[Professor Osborne states] an apparent relationship not only to the 
biological relations of the plants which produce them, but also to 
the chemical constitution of the seeds themselves." 

Ferments and Food Products. 
From time to time popular writers have had much to say 
regarding certain vital principles which they believed existed in 
raw foods which were of great importance and which could be 
transferred to the body by some mysterious process not explained. 
Those who have studied the question from a scientific standpoint 
do not share this opinion but have long recognized that almost all 
food products contain specific enzyms which would be destroyed 
if cooking were long enough continued and some have believed 
that these enzyms might exercise a favorable effect in the diges- 
tive tract if their activity were not thus destroyed. Others urge 
that as the digestive tract is abundantly supplied with enzyms 
there is no more reason for making a special effort to add them to 
the food than there is for supplying a normal man with a crutch. 
It is worthy of note that medical men seem to attach less impor- 
tance to the medicinal use of ferments than formerly. Whatever 
the final decision in the case may be, information is accumulating 
on this topic of the amount of enzyms present and their character. 
As illustrations may be mentioned, Aron's and Klempin's work 
(Biochem. Ztschr., 9 (1908), Nos. 1-2, pp. 163-184) on the pro- 
teolytic enzyms of oats, barley and vetch. 

Cold Storage and Changes in Food. 
A report on the effects of cold storage on eggs, quail and 
chicken was made by Doctor Wiley and his associates (U.S. Dept. 
Agr., Bur. Chem. Bui. 115, pp. 117, pis. 13), showing the losses 
in weight and changes in chemical character, etc. The general 
conclusion reached is that in the case of frozen birds, "there is no 
indication of any improvement in quality, that is, in taste, odor 
or flavor, during cold storage. There is a deterioration which is 
noticeable, even at the end of three months, and becomes more 



50 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

marked as the time of storage grows longer. Hence, without any 
reference whatever to the question of wholesomeness, cold storage 
prolonged for six months or more appears to be distinctly detri- 
mental as far as taste, flavor and palatability are concerned. 

"The intestines which are left in situ in storage birds, show a 
very marked degeneration. Their muscular walls grow thinner 
in cold storage until they are the merest remnants, which threaten 
to disappear altogether and which even very careful handling 
may easily rupture. This degeneration is noticeably active in 
the muscular rather than in the cellular tissues of the intestines. 
This is important when it is considered that the bacterial flora of 
the intestinal contents will, of course, contain any pathogenic 
germs which usuall}^ accompany the colon bacillus. Hence the 
perforation of the walls of the intestines, which apparently takes 
place by continued digestive processes even in cold storage, would 
open the way for a rapid migration of such bacteria on thawing 
and previous to cooking. Thus it is quite possible that dangerous 
bacterial organisms might be translated to the edible portions of 
the fowl through the perforations of the intestines in the period 
between thawing and cooking. This degeneration of the walls 
of the intestines must, therefore, be regarded as highly signi- 
ficant." 

Of studies of the changes which take place during cold storage, 
mention should be especially made of the work of Miss Pennington 
of the Bureau of Chemistry of which a portion has been summariz- 
ed in an article on the changes taking place in chickens in cold 
storage in the Yearbook for 1907 (U. S. Dept. Agr. Yearbook, 
1907, pp. 197-206, pis. 7). In the light of her investigations she 
writes: "The dictum of the warehousemen that there is no 
change in cold storage poultry and that it may be kept for an 
indefinite period can not be accepted in its entirety. Both 
microscopic study and the taste of the cooked fowl confirm the 
fact that macroscopically visible degeneration does take place." 

The question of drawn and undrawn poultry kept in cold 
storage was also studied by Boos in connection with the Massa- 
chusetts State Board of Health (Ann. Rpt. Bd. Health Mass., 39 
(1907), pp. 263-283). From his experiniental studies Boos con- 
cludes that "it is best to draw fowl in a different manner from that 
usually followed, before they are placed in cold storage. After 
removal from cold storage, the fowl should never be contaminated 



i9io] Progress in Nutrition, I go8-g 51 

by soaking in water, but should thaw in the air. Ordinary draw- 
ing is worse by far than no drawing at all." 

According to Brown's investigations (Ann. Rpt. Bd. Health 
Mass., 39 (1907), pp. 285-336), "decomposition depends largely 
upon the presence of moisture in the tissues, for moisture is 
absolutely essential to bacterial growth. In freshly killed birds, 
ordinarily or properly drawn, the surfaces quickly become dry. 
In cold storage birds, no matter how they are drawn, the tissues 
will be moist, because of the melting of the crystals of ice. If 
properly drawn, there would be but few bacteria present capable 
of causing decomposition." 

Similar investigations were carried on by Bissell (buffalo 
[Dept. Health], 1909, pp. 4; Ann. Rpt. Dept. Health Buffalo, 
1908, pp. 34-39; abs. in Buffalo [Dept. Health] Sanit. Bui., n.s., 2 
(1909), No. 3, pp. I, 2) under the auspices of the Buffalo Depart- 
ment of Health, and the effects of cold storage studied with drawn 
and undrawn turkeys. He concludes that when stored for a year 
no change had taken place which made the food detrimental to 
health, provided it was in proper condition when placed in storage. 
He also notes that when turkeys are stored undrawn there is a 
tendency for the odor, and undoubtedly the taste, of the material 
contained in the intestines to permeate the adjacent tissues at 
the time of the thawing out process. There is also the possibility 
of the bacteria contained in the intestinal contents migrating 
through the abdominal tissues at the same time. He believes, 
therefore, that the poultry should be properly killed and drawn 
before storage. 

The studies of the effects of storage on composition and quality 
of raw and cooked beef and chicken by Grindley and associates 
have been referred to earlier (see p 40) . Fresh and frozen drawn 
and undrawn fowl differed little in composition and nutritive 
value, when considered on the basis of a uniform fat and water 
content. As regards the juiciness and flavor of the cooked beef, 
the data are considered in favor of the cold storage product. 

Burke (Amer. Food Jour., 3 (1908), No. 9, pp. 7-10) discusses 
the legislative enactments which have to do with this question and 
recommends more extended legislation. In his opinions the 
arguments are all in favor of drawing poultry. 

Rideal (Cold Storage and Ice Trade Jour., 36 (1908), No. 4, pp. 
32, ;^T^) discusses the general problem of the dietetic value of 



52 The Journal of Home Ecotwfnics [February 

refrigerated foods. According to his experiments on fermenta- 
tion processes with reference to cold storage, "the action of 
diastase is not entirely prevented by cold but is rendered very 
slow. The tenderness and maturing of refrigerated meat, is 
attributable not only to the action of sarcolactic acid but also to 
the gradual and limited work of natural enzyms (pepsin and 
trypsin), [present in the flesh], which cause a certain amount of 
predigestion." 

Richardson and Scherubel's studies of frozen beef (Jour. Amer. 
Chem. Soc, 30 (1908), No. 10, pp. 1515-1564) did not indicate 
decomposition during cold storage and in their judgment beef 
thus stored for 610 days did not differ in flavor from fresh beef. 
Their general conclusion is that cold storage below 9o°C. is an 
adequate and satisfactory method for the preservation of beef for 
at least 554 days. The authors further conclude that freezing 
meats at 9° to 12° arrests bacterial decomposition, though freez- 
ing of course can not restore tainted meat to its original condition. 
(Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem. (1909), No. 2, pp. 95-102). 

Cooking and Cooking Problems. 

The numerous studies of the relative merits of different varie- 
ties of wheat and flour ground from them involve baking tests 
which as a whole have contributed not a little to the subject of 
bread and bread making. This side of the work might profitably 
be included under the heading of cooking problems but for various 
reasons has been referred to elsewhere. Aside from this work, a 
number of studies of cooking problems have been reported. 

The experiments by Grindley and his associates on the cooking 
of fresh and cold storage beef and fresh and cold storage chicken, 
drawn and undrawn, have also been referred to in another section 
(p 40). In the work, which is extended and valuable, changes 
and losses due to cooking are considered, and also the composition 
and quality of the cooked and raw product. 

A paper of interest in connection with the changes which take 
place in the cooking of meat is published by Meigs (Amer. Jour. 
Physiol., 24 (1909), No. i, pp. 178-186, dgnis. 6) under the title 
Concerning the Supposed Connection Between Protein Coagula- 
tion and the Heat Shortening of Animal Tissues. 

Of interesting cooking tests maybe mentioned Miss Watson's 
report of studies with different kinds of flour to determine whether 



iQio] Progress in Nutrition, I (^u8- (J 53 

strong wheat or soft wheat is best for milk biscuits made with 
baking powder (Ann. Rpt. Ontario Agr. Col. and Expt. Farm, 34 
(1908), pp. 242-247). 

In a report of the examination of baking powders on sale in 
Canada.McGill (Lab. Inland Rev. Dept. Canada Bui. 174, pp. 27) 
discusses the keeping quality of baking powder, the efficiency of 
different types as gas producers, and other questions, and reports 
determinations of the available, total, and residual gas, and of the 
excess of bicarbonate of soda in the different brands of powders. 

Miss Day (Jour. Home Econ., i (1909), No. 2, p. 177) of the 
University of Missouri has contributed some notes on the effects 
of cooking on cellulose. Of particular importance is Miss Day's 
paper published by the Office of Experiment Stations (U. S. Dept. 
Agr. Office Expt. Stas. Bui. 202), entitled Digestibility of Starch 
of Different Sorts as Affected by Cooking. 

Artificial digestion experiments,using different sorts of ferments, 
were made with potato, wheat, com, and other starches, with the 
object of determining the effect of heat on the digestibility of 
starch, under common household conditions. The conclusion 
was reached that potato, arrowroot, and probably tapioca and 
sago starches, are not made more easily digestible by long con- 
tinued cooking, while the reverse is true with cereal starches 
though the change occurs very slowly. Experimental data are 
discussed with reference to household cooking problems. 

Miss Mitchell's course in cereal foods and their preparation, 
also published by the Office of Experiment Stations (U. S. Dept. 
Agr., Office Expt. Stas. Bui. 200), contains a syllabus of a course 
of lectures on the preparation and nutritive value of cereal foods, 
each lecture being accompanied by suggestions for practical work 
and experiments. 

Many cooking tests with records of cost and quantities have 
been made by Miss Caroline Hunt in connection with studies of 
the economical use of meat, which have been carried on as 
a part of the nutrition work of the Office of Experiment Stations. 
The results are being prepared for publication in a summary of 
data on this subject. 

FiRELESs Cooker and Other Home Conveniences. 
The question of fireless cookers has been much discussed. 
Special interest attaches to the investigations carried on under 



54 The Journal cf Home Economics [February 

the auspices of the Commissary-General of the United States Army 
with reference to the use of such devices for preparing food for 
soldiers engaged in field duty. In general, the results have been 
favorable. (Rpt. Commis. Gen. [U. S. Army], 1908, pp. 10-13). 

Miss Ellen A. Huntington (Bui. Univ. Wis., No. 217, pp. 38, 
figs. 10) has reported from the Univ. of Wis. a number of experi- 
mental studies with the fireless cooker both with respect to the 
materials used in its construction and its efficiency as a cooking 
device. 

At least two books have been published devoted to the use of 
the fireless cooker, both of which are based on the experience of 
the writers, namely. The Fireless Cooker, by Caroline B. Lovewell, 
Francis D. Whittemore, and Hannah W. Lyon (Topeka, 1908, 
pp. 211, figs. 11), and Margaret J. Mitchell's The Fireless Cookbook 
(New York 1909, pp. XII + 315, figs. 18). 

The question of labor saving devices has been discussed by 
Le Bosquet (Bui. Amer. School Home Econ., Ser. i, 1908, No. 11, 
pp. 48, figs. 54) who summarizes a great deal of valuable data 
regarding kitchen appliances, laundry appliances, alcohol and 
electricity for cooking, and other topics. This bulletin deserves 
special mention as it is an excellent summary based on careful 
tests and other data. 

Barnard (Housekeeping Expt. Sta. [Conn.] Bui. 4, pp. 4), at his 
experimental housekeeping station has studied the use of alcohol 
as a fuel for household purposes. 

Reference should also be made to The Household Gas-Cookery 
Book (London, 1908; rev. in Epicure, 15 (1908), No. 180, p. 310). 
by Miss Edden and Mrs. Moser. Though an English publication 
and concerned chiefly with conditions in Great Britain, it is of 
interest to American students. 

Canning, Preserving and Drying Foods. 

Each year a substantial contribution is made to the question of 
preserving food by domestic methods. The following articles are 
of interest in this connection. 

At the Oregon Experiment Station, Pernot (Oregon Sta. Bui. 
98, pp. 3-6) studied home canning of mushrooms. According to 
his results they may be readily canned in their own liquor in either 
tin or glass by usual household methods, the young mushrooms 
being best for the purpose. Sterilizing the cans at intervals for 



^9^0] Progress in Nutrition, I go8-g 55 

several days is recommended, which is in accord with the general 
observation that fractional sterilization is of great importance in 
canning. 

The canning of peas has been studied by Bitting (U. S. Dept. 
Agr., Bur. Chem. Bui. 125, pp. 32, figs. 6), while Breazeale has 
published a Farmer's Bulletin (U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bui. 
359. PP- 16, figs. 9) on canning vegetables in the home which con- 
tains a large amount of useful information, based on his experi- 
ments. 

Kochs and Weinhausen (Ber. K. Gart. Lehranst. Dahlem 
1906-7, pp. 146-161; Pure Products, 4 (1908), Nos. 11, pp. 517- 
522; 12, pp. 565-571) studied the temperature attained in 
sterilizing preserved fruits and vegetables and noted that as 
others have found, in sterilizing cannfed goods the diffusion of heat 
is dependent upon the manner in which the canned contents are 
packed. The more solidly the material is packed, and the less 
fluid in the can, the greater the difficulty with which heat will 
penetrate. Fractional sterilization is recommended. 

The question of canning meats, particulariy with reference to 
the disposal of defective cans, was studied by McBryde (U. S. 
Dept. Agr., Bur. Anim. Indus. Rpt. 1907, pp. 279-296, fig. i). 

Tonney and Gooken (Amer. Food Jour., 3 (1908), No. 6, pp. 
20-23, figs- 3) studied the composition and character of the gases 
contained in swollen i.e. spoiled canned goods. 

Of decided interest in connection with the use of home canned 
foods as compared with commercial products canned in tin is the 
report of the Local Government Board of Great Britain by 
Schryver (Local Govt. Bd. [Gt. Brit.], Med. Dept., Rpts. Insp. 
Foods, 1908, No. 7, pp. 30), on the presence of tin in certain 
canned foods. Old tinned foods, particularly those containing 
much acid, may contain considerable proportions of tin, parti- 
cularly if any solder is present on the inside of the can, but the 
data presented, according to the author, "do not indicate much 
probability of serious risk of chronic poisoning by the absorption 
of nonirritant compounds of tin as a result of a diet which consists 
largely of canned foods and is continued over considerable periods 
of time." '^^v3? 

in tnis connection mention may be made of Kossowicz's 
bacteriological studies of the softening of pickled cucumbers, 
(Ztschr. Landw. Versuchsw. Osterr., 11 (1908), No. 12, pp. 894- 



56 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

900), the conclusion being reached that the potato bacterium 
(B. mesentericus vulgatus) is certainly concerned in the softening. 

Jelly making has been studied by at least three American inves- 
tigators, namely, Belling, of the Florida Experiment Station 
(Florida Sta. Rpt. 1908, pp. CV-CIX), who worked with guava 
jelly under a variety of conditions, Miss Nellie E. Goldthwaite of 
the University of Illinois (Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., i (1909,) 
No. 6, pp. 333-340) who studied the chemistry and physics of 
jelly making, and Miss Jenny H. Snow, (Jour. Home Econ., i 
(1909), No. 3, pp. 261-266) who studied particularly the effects 
of sugar and temperature on the cooking of fruit juices in jelly 
making and other ways. 

Miss Snow's paper was published in the Journal of Home 
Economics and is familiar to its readers. An interesting feature 
of Miss Goldthwaite 's work is the experimental contribution to the 
subject of acid in jelly making. She has clearly shown the im- 
portance of this constituent in jelly making and has furnished 
experimental proof of the housekeeper's belief that adding acid 
(lemon juice) would make good jelly from, such materials as 
strawberry juice which do not otherwise gelatinize. 

Dehydration or evaporation has long been followed as a method 
of preserving fruits, meat and vegetables, and in recent years the 
process has been greatly improved and applied to other materials. 
Dent of the Navy Department reports (Navy Dept., Bur. Sup- 
plies and Accts., Mem. Inform. Off. Pay Corps, [etc.], No. 85, pp. 
626, 627) the results of a test of such goods in the United States 
Navy. He found that dehydrated eggs and a majority of the 
dehydrated fruits and vegetables studied gave good results, but 
the powered milk was not so .satisfactory. Some information is 
also given by Dent regarding the quantity of dehydrated material 
required in comparison with fresh goods. 

Booth (Spice Mill, 31 (1908), No. 10, pp. 620-623) i^ ^ paper on 
desiccated milk describes the process of manufacture of such goods 
and gives analyses for a number of commercial products contain- 
ing varying amounts of fat, corresponding to the use of skimmed 
or partially skimmed milk for evaporating. 

The Hygienk of Foods. 
It is sometimes claimed that flesh foods contain great numbers 
of bacteria and the statement has been made that they are often 



1 9 1 o] Progress in Nutrition , 1 908-9 57 

found in cooked flesh foods. It is therefore interesting to note 
Bnins' careful study of this problem with special reference to 
cooked fish (Uber das bakteriologische Verhalten des Fischfleis- 
ches nach der Zubereitung. Inaug. Diss., Univ. Munich, 1908, 
pp. 29; Arch. Hyg., 67 (1908), No. 3, pp. 209-236). He found 
that the interior of the flesh and the surface of freshly cooked fish 
were free from bacteria and would remain so provided the fish 
were carefully stored and handled, as for instance by wrapping 
in sterile paper and keeping at suitable temperature. 

In connection with his work he summarizes a large amount of 
data gathered by other investigators which show conclusively 
that the consensus of opinion of those who have studied the prob- 
lem under properly controlled conditions is that the flesh of 
healthy animals is sterile. There are certain animal diseases 
which result in bacteria in the tissues but the flesh of such animals 
is not intentionally used as food in this country and under any 
circumstances can be thoroughly steriHzed by cookery, as is 
demonstrated by the Belgian municipal sterilizing plants which 
are operated with meat of such animals to supply cheap meat food 
to poor people. 

It seems very evident that those who have reported bacteria in 
or on flesh foods have not taken proper precautions to prevent 
contamination from the air. It is certainly true that the so-called 
air bacteria, which may include a variety of species, are found on 
bread, meat, fruit, and all food products exposed to the air, 
apparently in the nature of things in a greater quantity on moist 
foods than on those which have a drier surface. 

Those who are interested in meat inspection and the general 
consideration of what may be called diseased meat from the 
standpoint of hygiene and dietetics should read the paper by 
Professor T. Smith on the subject, which recently appeared 
(Amer. Jour. Pub. Hyg., 19 (1909), No. 2, pp. 397-411). 

Data have accumulated regarding the possibilities of acquiring 
pathogenic and other bacteria by means of raw foods, including 
fruits, vegetables, and other materials contaminated with dust or 
in other ways. Among papers of this subject may be mentioned 
Ressel's work (Uber fakale Verunreinigungen auf Obst und 
Gemiise. Inaug. Diss., Univ. Berlin, 1907, pp. 27; abs. in Hyg. 
Zentbl., 4 (1908), No. i, p. i6). 



58 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Students of nutrition will be interested in Fillinger's study 
(Ztschr. Untersuch. Nahr. u. Genussmtl., 16 (1908), No. 4, pp. 
232—234) of the hygiene of cooking utensils, particularly aluminum 
in contact with milk, wine and some salt solutions. Fresh milk 
did not dissolve an appreciable quantity of it and milk and the 
serum of very sour milk only traces. Wine cooked in aluminum 
dissolved none of the metal. 

The proper method of marketing oysters has received a good 
deal of attention in connection with pure food work in the United 
States. The studies of the water content of oysters packed and 
marketed in various ways reported by Willard of the Kansas 
Experiment Station (Bui. Kans. Bd. Health, 4 (1908), No. i, pp. 
4-12) is an important contribution to this subject. 

As regards the relation of hygiene to food, Nash's studies 
(Lancet [London], 1908, II, No. 23, pp. 1668, 1669) showing the 
intimate connection between flies, milk, and epidemic diarrhea 
deserve special mention. 

A great deal of interest has been aroused by the publication of 
Metchnikoff 's work on special lactic acid-forming ferments as an 
intestinal disinfectant. In this connection Herter's paper on The 
Therapeutic Action of Fermented Milk (Pop. Sci. Mo., 74 (1909), 
No. I, pp. 31-42) may be mentioned as well as Metchnikoff's 
popular summary of data on the subject which appeared in a 
recent number of the Century Magazine (November, 1909). The 
question is being studied by many investigators and it is worthy 
of note that the results obtained are not uniformly in accord with 
Metchnikoff's contention and this subject furnishes another good 
illustration of the need for caution in drawing general and sweep- 
ing conclusions from a limited amount of data. From the inter- 
est which the subject has aroused, it seems probable that before 
many years have passed so much experimental evidence will be 
available that the whole subject will be thoroughly understood. 

Of recent American studies which have to do with intestinal 
putrefaction and related questions may be mentioned The Fecal 
Bacteria of Healthy Men, by MacNeal, Latzer and Kerr, which 
formed a part of extensive studies of meat carried on at the Uni- 
versity of lUinois (Jour. Infect. Diseases, 6 (1909), No. 2, pp. 123- 
169, fig. i) and Some Observations on the Study of the Intestinal 
Bacteria, by Kendall (Jour. Biol. Chem., 6 (1909), No. 0, pp. 499- 
507)- 



19 1 o] Progress in Nutrition, I Q08-Q 59 

The general subject of handling and caring for food in the home 
with reference to hygiene has been discussed in a Farmers' Bulle- 
tin by Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel (U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bui. 
375)- 

Diet and Dietary Studies. 

The Office of Experiment Stations has made two contributions 
to this subject, namely, dietary studies in rural regions in Ver- 
mont, Tennessee, and Georgia by J. L. Hills, Charles E. Wait, and 
H. C. White (U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Stas. Bui. 221) and 
dietary studies of public institutions in Philadelphia and Balti- 
more (U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Stas. Bui. 223) which re- 
port investigations carried on by a number of those directly asso- 
ciated with the Department of Agriculture work. The bulletin 
on dietary studies in rural regions reports four studies in Ver- 
mont, seventy in the mountains of Tennessee, and fourteen in 
Georgia, together with a few others made for purposes of compari- 
son. As a whole, the bulletin supplies a large amount of statisti- 
cal and other data regarding living conditions in rurSl regions, 
particularly those remote from large centers of population where 
conditions are very different from those which prevail in towns, 
cities and farms which are otherwise situated. 

The studies in public institutions were made in homes for the 
aged and orphan asylunis, including institutions under municipal 
and under private management, and were undertaken with a view 
to securing additional data regarding food requirements for the 
aged and for young children and also as a demonstration of the 
desirability of using nutrition methods in the study of institution 
problems from the standpoint of institution interests. 

A pubHcation of the Office of Experiment Stations may also be 
mentioned which gives a general summary of data with recom- 
mendations for dietary standards in terms of food purchased, food 
eaten, and food digested, and including estimates of the amounts 
of the principal mineral constituents of the diet required per man 
per day. This is entitled Food and Diet in the United States, 
and appeared in the Yearbook of the Department of Agriculture 
for 1907 (U. S. Dept. Agr. Yearbook 1907, pp. 361-378) and also 
as a reprint. 

The Report of the Committee on Social Betterment, appointed 
by President Roosevelt, (Report of the President's Homes Com- 
mission, Sen. Doc. 644, 60th Cong. 2d Session, pp. 121-157) 



6o The Journal of Home Economics [February 

contains several papers on food for wage earners' families and 
related topics, the same material being included in the full 
report of the President's Homes Commission by Kober and 
others (Reports of the President's Homes Commission . Washing- 
ton, D.C., 1908 [pt. 5], pp. 281, pis. 4; Reprint, pp. 281, pis. 4). 

Of dietary work may be mentioned the information summarized 
regarding food habits, etc., of Mexican laborers in the United 
States by Clark of the Department of Commerce and Labor 
(Bur. Labor [United States] Bui. 78, pp. 466-522). 

Miss Agnes Hunt of the University of Illinois reports data 
regarding the nutritive value and cost of food served in a students' 
boarding club (111. Agr., 12 (1908), No. 5, pp. 146-148). 

Army diet has been discussed by Blackham (Brit. Med. Jour., 
1908, No. 2484, pp. 310-317) and extensively studied under 
Government auspices with reference to the British soldier. It 
may be noted that this report after careful consideration of the 
topic retains the Atwater dietary standards. 

In a study of dietetics in reference to tuberculosis Bardswell 
and Chapman (Proc. Roy. Soc. [London], Ser. B. 80 (1908), No. 
B, 538, pp. 1 51-160) report data on the diet of 100 working-class 
families in Great Britain, which they regard as physiologically 
adequate. They find that the food supplied 119 gm. protein and 
3,700 calories of energ>^ in round numbers per .person per day, at 
a cost of 20 cts. 

The food of peasants in Finland has been studied by Sundstrom 
(Untersuchungen iiber die Emahrung der Landbevolkerung in 
Finland. Helsingfors, 1908, pp. 230; rev. in Rev. Gen. Sci., 20 
(1909), No. 5, p. 204; Biochem. Zentbl., 8 (1909), No. 10, p. 505). 
They are apparently well nourished, the average rations supply- 
ing 136 gm. of protein, according to the author, and about 4,000 
calories of energy. 

One of the interesting and valuable recent books on nutrition 
is Sutherland's A System of Diet and Dietetics (London, 1908, 
pp. 906; rev. in Brit. Med. Jour., 1909, No. 25i3,by Epit.,pp. 537- 
539) which contains articles by different authors on a wide variety 
of topics concerned with diet in health and disease. Among 
others are a paper on the Evolution of Diet by H. Campbell, on 
the Physiology of Digestion by E. I. Spriggs, on Diet in Old Age, 
by H. Campbell, and on Diet in Hot Climates, by Sir P. 
Manson. 



iQio] Progress in Nutrition, ipo8-g 6i 

A dietary study covering one month was made at the Institute 
for Colored Youth, a school which is conducted under the manage- 
ment of the Society of Friends at Cheyney, Penn. (Daily 
Menus for the School Year and a Dietary tor October. 
Cheyney, Pa., 1909). The result showed that the food 
supply was adequate, animal food abundant and the diet 
reasonable in cost. It is stated that improvement in weight, 
in capacity for work and in general condition was notice- 
able in pupils after living on the generous diet which the school 
provides. The feature of handling the dietary problem at this 
school is the combination of teaching and practice work with the 
selection, purchase and preparation of the food for the school as a 
whole. 

Animal feeders have devoted a great deal of attention to the 
study of the utilization of nonproteid nitrogen and of combina- 
tions of proteid cleavage products as a substitute for protein. 
The work is of interest in connection with the human nutrition 
problems. Among other papers may be mentioned that of 
Morgen and his associates (Landw. Vers. Stat., 71 (1909), Nos. 1-3 
pp. 1-170). Such work as theirs is of interest as bearing on many 
questions of nutrition, and among others upon the kind and quan- 
tity of protein required. 

Dietaries of Native Races. 

The food problem of native races in the Orient is a matter upon 
which erroneous ideas are very commonly prevalent, though per- 
haps no well informed person would say today, as has so often 
been said in the past, that these Eastern races live almost ex- 
clusively on rice, realizing that the rice, where this is the principal 
cereal, is supplemented by beans and bean products, by fish, and 
other sea food, and usually, outside of Japan, by meat, particularly 
pork, poultry, and eggs in quantity. Indeed so great is the pro- 
duction of pork and poultry and eggs in China that such pro- 
ducts are exported to other countries, the trade in eggs being 
very large. At the present time there is considerable discussion 
in English food journals as to what constitutes proper inspec- 
tion of such Chinese food products when imported. 

Of studies of food problems in the East may be mentioned 
Kermorgant's paper (Ann. Hyg. Pub. et M6d. L^g., 4. ser., 7 
(1907), pp. 41 1-43 1) on diet in Indo-China. He states that the 



62 The Journul of Home Economics [February 

natives, as is the case with other regions in the Far East, Hve very 
largely upon rice, pork, fish, and vegetables, rice being eaten in 
very large quantities. He maintains further that Europeans 
living in the Tropics should exercise moderation in diet and avoid 
an excess of energy-yielding foods though this part of the diet 
must be proportional to the amount of physical work performed. 

Matignon (Rev. Hyg. et Pol. Sanit., 31 (1909), No. 2, pp. 120- 
125) describes the food habits of the Chinese in North China and 
gives general data regarding the animal and vegetable foods 
which they use. 

Data regarding Chinese dietetics are also reported by Little 
(Diplo. and Cons. Rpts. [London], Misc. Ser., 1908, No. 671, pp. 
24, map i). 

Matignon and Salm (Rev. Hyg. et Pol. Sanit., 30 (1908), No. 6, 
pp. 471-484) report data on dietary conditions in Java. 

Babbitt (Mo. Cons, and Trade Rpts. [U. S.], 1909, No. 344, pp. 
213-222) an American consul in Japan, has summarized a con- 
siderable amount of data on Japanese diet and a still larger 
amount is available in a recent volume on Japanese agriculture, 
entitled Agriculture in Japan. (Tokyo; Govt., 1908, pp. 455). 

Food in Asiatic Turkey is briefly described in one of our Con- 
sular Reports (Daily Cons, and Trade Rpts. [U. S.], 1908, No. 
3297, pp. 8-10). 

Diet in the Philippines has been discussed in one of the earlier 
numbers of the Journal of Home Economics (i (1909), No. 2, 
pp. 1 71-173) on the basis of data supplied by an officer of the 
U.S. Army and is discussed on the basis of much more extensive 
data gathered on the ground in a paper entitled Diet and Nutri- 
tion of the Filipino People by H. Aron (Philippine Jour. Sci., B. 
Med. Sci., 4 (1909), No. 3, pp. 195-202). The conclusion was 
reached that per kilogram of body weight or better per square 
meter of body surface the Filipino obtains from his diet, which is 
composed largely of fish, beans, rice and fruits, very much the 
same quantities of protein and energy as the average American 
or European from his ordinary diet. 

A study of strict vegetarianism has been reported from Japan 
by Yukawa (Arch. Verdauungskrank., 15 (1909), pp. 471-524, 
609-646), which was made with Buddhist bonzes [monks]. The 
food was very simple, consisting largely of rice and barley with 
vegetables, soy bean products, and rape seed oil. The diet 



iQio] Progress in Nutrition, I go8-g 63 

studied supplied the young monks at rest 57.1 gm. protein and 
1,804 calories; a young monk at light work 86.5 gm. protein and 
2,731 calories; and the old men at rest 60.4 gm. protein and 
2,020 calories of energy. If the low body weight [98 to 115 
lbs.] is taken into account, the values are not so low as they 
would seem at first thought. 

The Diet of Children and School Lunches. 

Many investigations have been reported which have to do with 
infant feeding but as this is a subject which demands special 
treatment no attempt will be made to summarize the work at the 
present time. 

Maurel has published (Rev. Soc. Sci. Hyg. Aliment., 3 (1906), 
No. 5, pp. 763-854) a very interesting summary of data which 
bears on the subject of children diet and gives what the author 
considers the maintenance requirements in infancy, youth, middle 
life, and old age. His estimate for protein is i . 5 gm. with 3 5 to 38 
calories of energy per kilogram of body weight, which would be 
equivalent to 105 gm. of protein for a man during middle life and 
weighing 70 kilograms. 

The question of school lunches has come very much to the fore 
in the last few years and the contribution during the last year or 
two has been large as the mere enumeration of titles would show. 
Of work of this character may be mentioned an account of cook- 
ing and serving a five-cent lunch in the Honolulu Normal School 
by Marion Bell (Boston Cooking School Mag., 12 (1908), No. 6, 
pp. 292, 293), and an account of serving hot lunches in 12 .schools 
reported in the Annual Report of the Women's Educational and 
Industrial Union (Ann. Rpt. Women's Ed. and Indus. Union, 29 
(i9o8),pp. 34, 35). 

Caroline L. Hunt has published through the U. S. Bureau of 
Education (Bur. of Ed. [U. S.] Bui. 3, 1909, pp. 62, pis. 3, dgm. i) 
an important monograph on the subject of diet for school children 
which summarizes the bulk of the work hitherto published and 
makes a number of recommendations and deductions. 

The problem of the feeding of school children in Liverpool has 
been studied by Hope (Pub. Health [London], 22 (1908), No. 3, 
pp. 97, 98), and Crowley (Pub. Health [London], 20 (1908), No. 5, 
PP- 325-335, chart i) describes at length the plan followed at 



64 Tlie Journal of Home Economics [Febniary 

Bradford, England, for furnishing breakfasts and dinners to 
school children in the poor quarters of the city. 

Sill's experimental study of malnutrition in the school child in 
New York City (Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 52 (1909), No. 25, pp. 
1981-1985) deserves special mention, as it records the improve- 
ment in health and in general condition which followed better 
hygiene and a more generous diet. 

Legendre (Abs. in Rev. Sci. [Paris], 5. ser., 9 (1908), No. 23, p. 
723) discusses diet with special reference to French schools. 
Goldschmidt.one of the American consuls in France, summarizes 
information (Daily Cons, and Trade Rpts. [U. S.], 1909, No. 3384, 
p. 13) regarding French school canteens and Amozan (Rev. 
Pedagog., n. ser., 53 (1908), No. 10, pp. 301-325), gives a general 
discussion of student diet in France. 

Mention may also be made in this connection of the data 
regarding the proposed ration for agricultural and technical 
schools in Chile (Bol. Min. Indus, i Obras Pub. [Chile], 7 (1908), 
No. I, p. 8; An. Agron. [Santiago de Chile], 2 (1907), No. 3, p. 

283). 

The Starr Center in Philadelphia which has been engaged in 
serving penny lunches and other school limch work has been 
described briefly in the reports of the Starr Center Association 
for 1908 and 1909. 

The dietary study and nutrition work at the School for Colored 
Youth at Cheyney, Pennsylvania, has been referred to in another 
section (p 61). 

Dietary Standards axd Physiological Requirements. 
The question of dietary standards and what constitutes a 
reasonable amount of protein and energy for persons of different 
age and occupation, the matter of optimum allowance as dis- 
tinguished from minimum or maximum allowance, the physiologi- 
cal effects of ovemutrition and undernutrition, the distinction 
between physiological requirements and dietary standards, and 
related matters still continue to be most important nutrition 
topics. Fortunately, information is accumulating rapidly. 
However, until the subject is thoroughly understood, it can not 
be too often said that everyone interested in the subject should 
keep an open mind and weigh fairly and justly the results which 
investigators are reporting. The question is so large that it is 



lyio] progress in Nutrition, I (J08-Q 65 

difficult to see all sides at once. The hesitancy to draw sweeping 
deductions which is observed among those who are making the 
largest experimental contributions to the subject, is in marked 
contrast to the sweeping generalizations which are sometimes 
made by those who approach the subject from a popular stand- 
point. 

In a volume entitled The Nutrition of Man, Professor Chitten- 
den (New York) 1907, pp. XII-I-321, figs. 29) has continued his 
extended and important studies of food requirements, particularly 
with reference to the amount of protein which is desirable and the 
effects of the long continued use of small quantities of protein, the 
results with dogs indicating that these animals can remain in per- 
fect comfort and good condition with a much smaller amount than 
some other investigators have maintained. In general, he con- 
cludes that "the nutrition of man, if it is to be carried out by the 
individual in a manner adapted to obtaining the best results, in- 
volves an intelligent appreciation of the needs of the body under 
different conditions of life, and a willingness to accept and put in 
practice the principles that scientific research has brought to 
light, even though such principles stand opposed to old-time 
traditions and customs. The master words which promise help 
in the carrying out of an intelligent plan of living are moderation 
and simplicity; moderation in the amount of food consumed 
daily, simplicity in the character of the dietary, in harmony with 
the old saying that man eats to live and not lives to eat. In so 
doing there is promise of health, strength and longevity, with 
increased efficiency, as the reward of obedience to Nature's laws." 

In Reform in our Diet by Hindhede, translated into German by 
Bargum (Eine Reform unserer Emahrung, Copenhagen and 
Leipsic, 1908, pp. 232, pi. i, figs. 4) the author recommends on 
the basis of experience with himself and family and others a low 
proteid diet, which in his own case consists of potatoes, bread, 
grits, fruit, with considerable amounts of fat and small amounts 
of meat, eggs, etc. 

One of the most important papers which has to do with this 
subject, is McCay's report of nutrition investigations with natives 
of India which bears the title Constituents of the Urine and Blood 
and the Bearing of the Metabolism of Bengalis on the Problems of 
Nutrition (Sci. Mem. Med. and Sanit. Depts. India, n. ser., 
1908, No. 34, pp. 67). The records and observations extend over 



66 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

long periods with Bengalis, Anglo Indian, and Eurasian students 
and compare the native diet which is low in protein and fairly high 
in non-nitrogenous materials, particularly carbohydrates, with the 
more generous diet of the other groups. In general, the conclu- 
sions are unfavorable to the low diet and on the basis of 
experimental evidence, it is the author's belief that such a diet 
followed for generations results in smaller body development, 
inferior productive power for useful labor, and a greater suscepti- 
bility to disease. Susceptibility to diabetes in the Bengalis is 
especially marked. Doctor McCay's paper has excited a great 
deal of interest in the United States and elsewhere and it is 
interesting to note that he is now in close touch with one of the 
foremost investigators in the United States and is cooperating 
in studies which will furnish additional light on this subject. 

A very interesting contribution to this subject is the report of 
Albertoniand Rossi (Arch. Expt. Path. u. Pharmakol., 1908, Sup. 
pp. 29-38) on the effects of adding meat to the vegetarian diet of 
peasants of the Abruzzi region in Italy. According to their in- 
vestigations, increased power of assimilation, and an increase in 
body weight, physical strength and the hemoglobin content of 
the blood, were noted. 

Biemacki (Reprint from Poln. Arch. Biol. u. Med. Wiss., 3 
(1907), pp. 272-313; Zentbl. Gesam. Physiol, u. Path. Stoff- 
wechsels, n. ser., 2 (1907), No. 11, pp. 401-414); (Zentbl. Gesam. 
Physiol, u. Path. Stoffwechsels, n. ser., 4 (1909), nos. 12, pp. 449- 
455; ^3. PP- 481-496), has reported some investigations which 
have a bearing upon changing the nutritive value of a ration 
either by lowering the protein content or increasing the propor- 
tion of nonnitrogenous material. In his experiments on the in- 
fluence of an excess of fat upon the digestive tract and upon 
metabolism the chief effect noted was a lowering of the oxidation 
of protein, which was manifested as a decrease in the amount of 
urea excreted and an increase in the urine constituents called 
amido acids. An excess of sugar also caused a lowering of the 
urea coefficient but starch did not have this effect. The experi- 
ments reported were made wth dogs. 

Of great importance are Rubner's papers on nutrition processes 
during the growth of the child (Arch. Hyg., 66 (1908), Nos. 1-2 
pp. 81-126); theory of nutrition after completion of growth 
(Ibid., pp. 1-80) ; problems of growth and length of life from the 



iQio] Progress in Nutrition, I go8-Q 67 

standpoint of energetics (Ibid. pp. 1 27-208, charts 2) ; Sitzber. K. 
Preuss. Akad. Wiss., 1908, II, pp. 32-47); and the problem of 
duration of Hfe and its relation to growth and nutrition (Das 
Problem der Lebensdauer und seine Beziehungen zu Wachsttim 
und Emahrung. Munich, igo8, pp. VIII + 208; rev. in Biochem. 
Centbl., 7 (1908), Nos. 15-16, pp. 593-594)- 

Of papers which have to do with questions of undernutrition 
may be mentioned the article on diet of the poor and its social 
significance by Rubner (Rev. Hyg. et Pol. Sanit., 29 (1907), Nos. 
9-10, pp. 854, 855), who discusses the results which follow the 
long continued use of a diet of low nutritive value and composed 
largely or exclusively of vegetable foods such as commonly noted 
with the poor in Europe. Such a diet as this, he concludes, is 
responsible for defective physical condition, a lowered ability for 
work, an increase of morbidity and mortality, a lowered resistance 
to epidemic diseases, and similar undesirable results. 

As regards the food requirements of men engaged in intellectual 
work; that is, men of sedentary habit, de Fleury (Rev. Soc. Sci. 
Hyg. Aliment., 3 (1906), No. 5, pp. 855-878) recommends for 
such persons over 40 years of age 82 gm. protein and 2,200 
calories per day. 

The physiological protein minimum has been discussed 
(Ztschr. Physiol. Chem., 59 (1909), Nos. 5-6, pp. 405-491, pi. i) 
by Michaud, whose work has attracted a good deal of popular 
attention owing to the fact that his experiments seem to indicate 
that the amount is proportional to the character of the protein, 
the least being required when an animals is fed the flesh of its 
own species. 

In Notes on Scurvy in South Africa, Macrae (Lancet [London], 
1908, I, No. 26, pp. 1838-1840) reports data of interest in discuss- 
ing the importance of protein in the diet. In his opinion scurvy 
among the Kafirs is attributable to a return to their low diet of 
corn with a little meat after the generous rations formerly supplied 
by the Government. He notes the success which has attended 
the treatment of scurvy by a diet containing an abundance of 
meat food. 

Of articles for and against the use of small amounts of protein 
in the diet may be mentioned a summary by Haig (Edinb. Med. 
Jour., n. ser., 22 (1907), No. 6, pp. 501-505; Med. Press and Circ, 
138 (1909), No. 3636, pp. 32, 2,i), the exponent of the uric acid 
theory. 

. ■ \ 



68 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The possibility of finding satisfactory meat substitutes was 
studied by E. Salkowski (Biochem, Ztschr., 19 (1909), Nos. 1-2, 
pp. 83-131). In the experiments reported albumin obtained from 
meot used in the manufacture of meat extract, albumin from 
blood and from horse beans, a wheat gluten preparation, and 
bean meal were studied. The author reaches the conclusion 
that there seems little likelihood that suitable protein material 
of vegetable origin can be prepared as a palatable and economi- 
cal substitute for meat. 

Mention may also be made of Crichton- Browne's (Jour. Roy. 
Inst. Pub. Health, 16 (1908), Nos. 8, pp. 471-487; 9, pp. 527-552 
discussion of food requirements, which has also appeared in full 
under the title Parcimony in Nutrition. (London and New 
York 1909). 

Sociological Data. 

Data on sociological topics are included in Retail Prices of Food, 
1890 to 1907, published by the U. S. Bureau of Labor (Bur. of 
Labor [U. S.], Bui. 77, pp. 181-332). The cost of living of the 
working classes in the principal industrial towns of Great Britain 
is summarized in the same publication pp. (336-353). 

Doubtless owing to the increased cost of food and other 
necessities not only in the United States but in most countries, 
more attention has been paid during the last two or three years 
than usual to the cost of living and reports on- this subject have 
been quite numerous. Among other papers may be mentioned 
a study of the cost of living in New Jersey (Ann. Rpt. Bur. Statis. 
Labor and Indus. N. J., 30 (1907), pp. 141-157). 

The social condition of working-class families in Dublin was 
studied by Stafford and La Touche (Brit. Med. Jour., 1908, No. 
2466, pp. 833, 834) under Government auspices and the data re- 
ported are valuable for comparison with conditions in the United 
States. The bulletin is of interest because of the arguments 
which the authors make for additional dietary studies and their 
insistence on the importance of this kind of work to the sociologist 
and student of nutrition. 

A number of sociological studies of working-men's families 
which include food and nutrition topics and other data have ap- 
peared, including Chapin's The Standard of Living Among 
Working-men's Families in New York City, (New York, 1909, pp. 
372, dgms. 16); Fox's Cost of Living of the Working Classes [in 



1910] Progress in Nutrition, igo8-g 69 

the United Kingdom], (London, Govt., 1908, pp. LIII + 616, maps 
2) ; his Cost of Living in German Towns, (London : Govt., 1908, 
pp. LXI+ 548, map i) ; and his Cost of Living in French Towns, 
(London: Govt., 1909, pp. LIV+ 430). 

Technical Subjects Connected with Nutrition. 

On the more technical side of nutrition work much has been 
accompHshed. 

The annual reports of the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture and of 
the Director of the Office of Experiment Stations for 1908 and 
1909 have briefly described the construction of the improved 
respiration calorimeter at the Department of Agriculture and 
outlined the plans for experiments with it. 

This work is well under way and the special object of study is 
the ease of digestion of cheese of different sorts as compared with 
other foods. The scope and extent of the nutrition investigations 
of the Office of Experiment Stations has been outlined, the plans 
for the work discussed, and the publications listed and described 
in a recent circular (U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Stas. Circ. 89). 

An interesting bulletin on the influence of muscular and mental 
work on metabolism and the efficiency of the human body as a 
machine by Benedict and Carpenter (U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. 
Stas. Bui. 208) has been published. Briefly, mental work was 
not found to exercise any appreciable effect on the factors of 
metabolism which were measured with the respiration calorimeter. 
As regards the effectiveness of the body as a machine, the authors 
calculate that it shows an efficiency of 20 per cent; that is, for 
every calorie of muscular work produced by the body a total of 5 
calories is expended. 

The reports of the Carnegie Institution for the last two years 
contain very interesting and valuable data regarding the installa- 
tion and equipment of the Nutrition Research Laboratory at 
Boston, and briefly report some of the work which has been 
accomplished (Carnegie Inst. Washington Year Book, 6 (1907), 
pp. 130-133, 200-205; 7 (1908), pp. 209-212). 
f^< Benedict and Carpenter (Amer. Jour. Physiol., 24 (1909), No. 2, 
pp. 203-233) have reported studies of metabolism during fever, 
studies of the energy involved in typewriting (Jour. Biol. Chem. 
6 (1909), No. 3, pp. 271-288), and some other experiments, in one 
of which the respiration calorimeter was used (Amer. Jour. 



70 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Physiol., 24 (1909), No. 2, pp. 187-202). Benedict (Amer. Jour. 
Physiol., 24 (1909), No. 3, pp. 345-374, figs. 6) has also devised 
and described a small portable apparatus for use in respiration 
experiments. 

An improved respiration apparatus of the Regnault and Reiset 
type has been perfected and described by Zuntz and Oppenheimer 
(Biochem. Ztschr., 14 (1908), Nos. 5-6, pp. 361-368, pi. i), and 
tests with it have been reported (Ibid, pp., 369-384, figs. 3). 

Letulle and Miss Pompilian have described (Rev. Soc. Sci. Hyg. 
Aliment., 3 (1906), No. 4, pp. 645-665, figs. 14) a respiration 
calorimeter different in construction from those which have been 
built in the United States, but as yet have not reported investiga- 
tions with it. 

Studies of Body Temperature. 

In studies of body temperature and periodicity, Osborne (Jour. 
Physiol. ,36 (1908), No. 6, pp. XXXIX — XLI) reports data based 
on records kept on a journey from Melbourne to London, his 
results indicating in his opinion that the evening maximum in 
temperature takes place with regard to local time and not the time 
of the starting point, a conclusion which is not in harmony with 
the data reported as a part of the nutrition investigations at 
Middletown, Conn., by Benedict, who found that the habit, for a 
long period, of working by night and sleeping by day, did not 
affect periodicity in body temperature. 

Kurita (Arch. Schiffs u. Tropen Hyg., 11 (1907), No. 21, pp. 
681-683) studied the increased body temperature observable in 
men working in hot climates and the amount of time required for 
return to normal temperature. He concludes that at least two 
hours' rest is essential after work has been performed where the 
air is excessively hot. 

As a contribution to the general question of the effects of ex- 
ternal temperature and other climatic conditions on food require- 
ments may be mentioned Haldane's studies of work under in- 
creased atmospheric pressure and in great heat (Sci. Prog. Twen- 
tieth Cent., 2 (1908), No. 7, pp. 378-398, figs. 4). 

Increased body temperature and other questions concerned 
with body temperature wre studied by Rancken (Skand. Arch. 
Physiol., 21 (1908), Nos. 2-3, pp. 161-236, figs. 23), and Tolkowsky 
(Ann. Gembloux, 18 (1908), No. 11, pp. 638-652, figs. 2) has 
published a digest of data on the general subject of animal heat. 



igio] Progress in Nutrition, I go8-g 71 

Studies of the Physiology of Growth. 

Fundamental in their importance and in their relation to 
questions of nutrition are the extremely valuable series of investi- 
gations on the chemistry of growth reported from the Laboratory 
of the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale University, by Mendel 
and his associates. The papers which have already appeared 
deal very largely wth the enzyms of different tissues in embryonic 
life. This work appeared in volume 20-21 of the American 
Journal of Physiology, and has been summarized by the author. 

Many studies of growth have also been reported by Waters 
(Proc. Soc. Prom. Agr., Sci., 29 (1908), pp. 71-96, figs. 5, charts 
2), then of the Missouri Experiment Station, and by S. H. Gage 
and Miss Susanna Gage of Cornell University (Science, n. s., 28, 
(1908), p. 494), while recent contributions to the subject have 
been discussed and data summarized by Pearl, of the Maine 
Experiment Station (Amer. Nat., 43 (1909), No. 509, pp. 302- 
316). 

Books on Nutrition. 

Of recent books which deal with nutrition topics mention may 
be made of Cohnheim's Physiology of Digestion and Nutrition, 
(Die Physiologic der Verdauung and Ernahrung. Berlin and 
Vienna; rev. in Brit. Med. Jour., 1908, No. 2489, pp. 746, 747); 
Rubner's Food Problems, (Volksernahrungsfragen. Leipsic, 
1908, pp. 144; rev. in Zentbl. Physiol., 22 (1908), No. 11, pp. 349- 
351); and Lungwitz's Metabolism Experiments on the Protein 
Requirement of the Child (Stoffwechselversuche ueber den 
Eiweissbedarf des Kindes. Berlin and Halle, 1908, pp. 82; rev. 
in Brit. Med. Jour., 1908, No. 2489, p. 747); Cohen's Organic 
Chemistry for Advanced Students (New York and London, pp. 
VIII + 63 2;. and Halliburton's Physiological Chemistry (Ann. 
Rpts. Prog. Chem. [London], 4 (1907), pp. 226-260), which is a 
"critical summary and review of investigations on the chemistry of 
proteids and other important questions. 

Mention should also be made of the new edition of Lusk's 
Science of Nutrition (Philadelphia and London, 1909), which 
contains additional data and is designed to serve as a text and 
reference book for the student and teacher. 

Fischer's summaries of investigations with carbohydrates and 
ferments (Untersuchungen iiber Kohlenhydrate und Fermente. 
Berlin, 1909, pp. VIII + 91 2) are an important compilation and 



72 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

summary of the numerous papers on this subject which he and 
his students have published. A similar volume reporting his 
studies on the cleavage and structure of proteids is of equal value. 
Schryver has also published a book entitled The General Charac- 
ters of the Proteins, (London, New York and Calcutta, 1909, pp. 
X + 86) , which contains a large amount of information . Plimmer 's 
series of monographs on the chemical constituents of proteins, 
(New York, Bombay and Calcutta, 1908, pts. i, pp. XII + 100; 
2, pp. VIII + 66), which summarize a large amount of data on 
protein chemistry, may also be mentioned. 

Vernon's volume, Intracellular Enzyms (London, 1908, pp. 
XI-{- 240), should also be noted. 

A System of Diet and Dietetics, edited by G. A. Sutherland, 
has already been referred to (p. 60). 

Snyder, long associated in the cooperative studies of bread and 
other cereal foods carried on under the ruspices of the nutrition 
investigations of the Office of Experiment Stations, has prepared 
a text-book entitled Human Foods (New York, 1908, pp. 362), 
designed for the use of university students, in which he has sum- 
marized important data regarding human nutrition, drawing 
largely on the results of his own extensive investigations on 
the subject. 

A new and enlarged edition of Practical Dietetics, by W. Gilman 
Thompson (New York and London, 1909), has appeared which like 
the earlier edition is an extended summary of data on diet in 
health and disease. 

In Mohler and Eichhom's translation of Edelmann's Text-Book 
of Meat Hygiene, (Washington, 1908, pp. XII -F 402, pis. 8, figs. 
157), a large amount of material is summarized regarding meat 
inspection which is of interest to students of nutrition, particu- 
larly as it may be considered accurate as regards American condi- 
tions. Doctor Mohler having long been connected with the 
inspection work of the Bureau of Animal Industry of the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture. 



MARIA DANIELL. 

The death of Miss Maria Daniell occurred in Quincy, Mass., 
November 21, 1909. Miss Daniell was bom in Boston, June 21, 
1844, and was of colonial descent, tracing her ancestry back to 
1636 when Robert Daniell settled in Watertown, Mass. 

Miss Daniell's interest in food problems, a broader interest 
than that of merely preparing palatable dishes, was aroused by 
the lectures which her cousin, Mrs. Olive Daniell, gave at about 
the same time that Miss Parloa began her work (1875 to 1880). 
Always painstaking in her work the economic side appealed to 
her rather more than to any other of the leaders in this line 
except Juliet Corson. 

The death of Miss Daniell following so soon after that of her 
friend and teacher Miss Maria Parloa, removes almost the last 
of a group of famous teachers of nineteenth century housewifery. 
These women deserve well of this age for saving to us some of 
the wisdom of the past and connecting it with the science of the 
present. 

Miss Daniell had the gift, born in few and never really acquired, 
of knowing instinctively the right flavors and texture of cooked 
food, and she more than any other teacher of cooking gave her- 
self to the production of the most savory viands with the least 
cost. She was a keen judge of the raw material as well. 

She aided her cousin. Miss S. E. Went worth, in the early days 
of the New England Kitchen. She had charge of the world- 
famous Rumford Kitchen at the Chicago Exposition and then 
helped to organize the dining halls of the women's dormitories at 
the University of Chicago. She spent a winter over the student 
lunch room problem at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. Two 
winters were given to the School of Housekeeping, Boston, 
one winter to a study of institution dietaries at Ogdensburg, 
N. Y., under the direction of the late Professor W. O. Atwater. 
Miss Daniell also spent two winters in Texas under the auspices 
of a woman's club association which arranged groups of towns, 
five in a group, for courses of lectures and demonstrations 
once a week. A considerable portion of the state was thus 
covered and greatly benefited. 

At intervals she gave class instruction to nurses and medical 
students, while her summers were given to the health and com- 

73 



74 The Journal of Home Economics [February- 

fort of the appreciative vacationist. The most notable instance 
was the setting a standard for the Lake Placid Club, Adirondacks, 
a standard it has been found hard to maintain. One of the last 
services to better living without extravagance was in helping 
to establish the College Club of Boston in its new home. Hers 
was a busy, varied and useful Hfe full of cheer despite family 
bereavements, a Hfe that will shed its influence long after ^ve who 
knew and loved her have also passed on. — Ellen H. Richards. 

Another pioneer in work for improved home conditions and 
better living has entered into rest. Maria Daniell was an ideaUst, 
in that perfection in the preparation and serving of food was her 

aim. 

As manager and table director of the Lake Placid Club for five 
years in its early days (1897-1900) she set a standard which may 
well be defined as the highest art in cookery, i. e., the scientific 
application of heat to food in such manner as will render it most 
appetizing and digestible while best preserving its natural flavor. 
She possessed the rare gift of combining deUcacy of seasoning 
with the instinct of right combinations of foods. SimpHcity in 
variety each day, with perfection of each individual article of 
food, was her aim, and there is no doubt if this ideal were widely 
adopted where large numbers are fed, it would mean increased 
health, enjoyment of food, and efficiency. 

Miss Daniell was warm hearted, sympathetic, and a loyal 
friend, giving most generously of time and strength wherever 
she could help others, often taxing unduly her physical strength. 
Many warm friends will hold her memory dear in this Adirondack 
region which she loved so well. — Annie Dewey. 

Maria Daniell was more to the Lake Placid Club than its table 
director. The older members recalled her always with a feeling of 
personal friendship and welcomed her back most heartily on her 
visits to the Club which she had worked so hard to help build up 
in its early days. We were looking forward to a month's visit in 
January when the sudden news came. Her big warm heart 
made for her many friends up here in the great forest and all of 
us appreciate the practical service she rendered in developing the 
new science of Home Economics to which she had unselfishly 
given most of her life. — Melvil Dewey. 



ON THE RELATION OF YEAST TO FLAVOR IN BREAD." 

Ruth Aimee Wardall. 

Bread is probably more commonly used than any other one 
article of food, yet there exists a great range of desirability in 
breads, due to several causes, but chiefly to its flavor. By the 
average individual the nutritive value of any food is given less 
importance than its flavor. We may rightly consider flavor in 
food as important and we may well seek the factors which 
give this desirable quality. 

Previous work with bread in which the materials, other than 
yeast and flour, were varied, showed that flavor could be affected 
by these variations. Still another set of experiments, in which 
all other conditions and materials remained constant and the 
flour varied, showed that the flour is a most important factor in 
producing flavor. Am.ong these flours v/ere included a large 
number of durum wheat flours, the better varieties of which 
impart a characteristically delightful nutty flavor to bread. 

The extent to which yeast is used in controlling flavor in beer 
and other fermented drinks suggests the possibility of selecting 
among the yeasts certain ones which may impart characteristic 
flavors to bread. The object of this piece of work was to discover, 
if possible, whether yeast in pure culture is a controlling or even 
an important factor in producing flavor in bread. This involves 
a good many questions with regard to the materials of the 
bread, and with regard to the nature of the yeast plant and its 
activities. The response of the yeast to physical conditions, its 
needs for nutrition and multiplication, its enzymes, its relation 
to other organisms, are all to be considered. 

Literature. — A search through the literature on yeasts revealed 
at once that the work done with yeast has been primarily for the 
benefit of the brewer and the distiller, with the most meager 
reference, if any, to bread. Pasteur^ concerned himself with 
the origin of yeast and the phenomena of fermentation in wine 
and beer. Hansen*^ says a man in Copenhagen "prepared a pure 
cultivated yeast, which is now employed in several bakehouses 



oA thesis for the degree of Master of Arts in Household Science in the Graduate School 
of the University of Illinois, 1907. 

^Studies on Fermentation, London, 1879. 

cPractical Studies in Fermentation, London and New York, 1896. 

75 



76 Tlie Journal of Home Economics [February 

in place of the leaven," and dismisses the subject of bread. 
Many articles about yeasts are written for the different journals of 
the brewers. Very full of suggestion is the work of the botanists 
dealing with the physiology of the yeast plant, — such as Will"" and 
Vines^ on the proteolytic power of yeast, Beyerinck'^ and many 
others who deal with the sugar splitting enzymes and other phases 
of yeast physiology. 

Technique of Bread Making. — As the real and final test of any 
yeast or combination of yeasts, to be used in baking, must be a 
loaf of bread, a method of making bread was more or less arbi- 
trarily adopted and followed throughout this work. A loaf of 
medium size was made from the following ingredients : 

I cup liquid, i tablespoon butter, i tablespoon sugar, }i tea- 
spoon salt, 3 cups flour, and yeast. 

The materials were at once mixed into "■ dough, put into a 
water oven and left to rise at a temperature of 30-40° C. When 
the dough doubled its bulk it was made into a loaf, put into the 
pans and again placed in the water oven ; when its bulk doubled 
the second time, the loaf was baked 45 minutes at 200° C. Both 
the materials and the manner of handhng these loaves are those 
commonly used in the household. 

The pure culture yeasts which would make bread at all would 
do it in six to nine hours from the time of mixing up the dough 
until the bread was baked and out of the oven. These loaves of 
bread were regularlj^ started in the morning, baked in the after- 
noon and tested the following day. In the case of a number of 
doughs which showed a slight tendency to rise toward the close 
of the day, the same culture was started in the afternoon and 
allowed to stand over night in the dough, but this longer time 
allowed for fermentation did not once result in a good loaf of 
bread. This is readily understood, for the yeast when introduced 
into the dough is in an actively growing condition, and if it has 
the power to ferment at all under its given conditions it does it 
in the shorter time. It works just as the compressed yeast does 
in the so-called short process bread, as opposed to the long pro- 
cess bread made with dry yeast. 



oStudien iiber Proteolysc durch Hefen. Centbl. Bakt. 2 abt. (1901), No. 7, p. 794. 
bThe Proteases of Plants, Ann. Bot. . xviii. (1904), p. 289. 

cUeber Nachweis unri Verbreitung der Glukase, das Enzym der Maltose, Centbl. Bakt. 
[etc.] I, (189s), No. 6, pp. 321-229. 



I9IO] On the Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread -j'j 

Yecsts.—Tht great number of culture yeasts as well as wild 
yeasts known to us presents a rather formidable array to one who 
wishes to choose from among them certain organisms which will 
accomplish certain purposes. Natural fermentation in fruit juice 
gives an uncertain result, because the number and variety of or- 
ganisms present cannot be foretold. Sometimes natural fermen- 
tation occurs in bread— as in salt-rising bread— in which the 
organisms in the materials, and those received from the air during 
manipulation are kept at a temperature favorable for the growth 
of certain forms, mostly if not enrirely bacteria. Here as with 
the fruit juice the resulting product is quite uncertain. 

The makers of beer and wine have learned that it is to their 
advantage to choose among the yeasts and to use them in pure 
culture. The bread maker has not felt so great need to choose 
his yeasts carefully and so has not investigated his yeasts so 
thoroughly. There are commercial laboratories which supply 
bakers and yeast factories with pure cultures, mostly different 
strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, but not all yeast factories use 
pure cultures. On visiting one yeast factorv and inquiring 
about the source of their yeasts, we were told that when 
their commercial product became unsatisfactory some yeast was 
purchased of a competitor and a new 'starter' made. In this 
instance a conscious choice among yeasts surely did not occur. 
In another factory we were assured that pure cultures were used 
for the 'starter.' 

A letter was written to the author of an article on yeasts for 
bread, asking his opinion about the effect of yeast on flavor in 
bread. The reply is quoted: "The flavor, especially of fine 
baked goods, may certainly be affected by the use of yeast 
especially by the use of beer-yeast from which the hop-bitter- 
substances have not previously been extracted. The use of 
partially decomposed, old pressed yeast, may likewise exercise 
an unfavorable effect on the flavor." This does not answer the 
point m question at all, since it deals with commercial brands of 
yeast, or their condition when used, and not with the effect of 
the yeast itself which can be studied only in pure culture. 

Description of Cultures.— The first set of yeast cultures 
worked with was separated from dry and compressed yeasts 
purchased on the market and from liquid yeasts used by house- 
keepers. No attempt was made to identify these cultures; 



-7 8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

they were given laboratory numbers and records were kept under 
these numbers. Later, yeasts were procured from various sources, 
making a total of thirty-three cultures. It is, therefore, quite 
possible that the same species and even the same strain may 
appear more than once in this list of yeasts, but time would not 
permit both the identification of yeasts and the selecting process 
among them, and as the latter was the real object of investiga- 
tion, the former was disregarded with the thirteen cultures 
separated from commercial and household samples of yeast. 
Nos. 21-24 inclusive, 189, 190 and 191 were separated from 
commercial and household samples of yeast. Of the five brewers' 
yeasts, two each were from two well known breweries m this 
country, and one from a school for brewers. Nos. 157 and 158 
came from a commercial laboratory. Nos. 183-186 inclusive, 
were from four strains of S. cerevisiae, frorr the Boston Bio- 
Chemical Laboratory. Nos. 274-282 inclusive were purchased 
from Krai's Bacteriologisches Laboratorium, Prag, and repre- 
sented the following species: 

Nos. 274, Saccharomyces farinosus (Lindner); 275, S. exiguus 
(Rees) Hansen; 276, S.Ludwigii (Hansen); 277, S. cerevisiae 
Saaz; 278, 5. cerevisiae I. Hansen; 279, 5. Pastorianus III. 
Hansen; 280, 5. cerevisiae Carlsberg L Hansen; 281, 5. ellipsoi- 
deus I; and 282, 5. Pastorianus I. 

Culture Material. — The manner of growing the yeasts and 
introducing them into bread became a matter of experiment. 
In making beer and wine the culture material is one that can go 
into the finished product, but obviously neither a wort nor must 
culture would do for bread, and the following culture materials 
were tried: (i) Milk; (2) thin com meal gruel with two per 
cent glucose; (3) potato solution ; (4) thin flour gruel ; (5) two 
per cent glucose solution in water; (6) two per cent cane sugar 
solution in water; (7) No. 3 with two per cent cane sugar; and 
(8) No. 3 with two per cent glucose. A decided preference was 
shown by the yeasts for No. 8. 

The potato solution was prepared by cooking and mashing 100 
gms. of potato, and making the volume up to 400 cc. with water. 
A measured portion was put into sterile flasks and sterilized for 
use in bread. A sub-culture of the yeast to be tested was made 
on a bouillon or wort agar slant and grown in the incubator at 
29-30° C. for twenty-four hours. From this the potato solution 



IQIO] 



On the Relation cf Yeast to Flavor in Bread 



79 



in the glass flask was inoculated and left in the incubator for 
twenty-four hours, when it was used for bread. Sometimes 
these flasks had a decided froth due to gas formation, sometimes 
very little indication of gas was seen, and sometimes none, but 
this could not be taken as a sure evidence of the activity of the 
yeast in bread. In the case of some of the brewers' yeasts a 
decided gas formation occurred in the potato solution, but the 
doughs remained perfectly flat. After the yeast had been twenty 
four hours in the potato solution, and was ready to be used in 
bread, enough water which had been boiled was added to the 
solution to make up the measure of liquid required for the bread 
and the dough mixed as for any bread. 

Requisites of a Bread Yeast. — The first requisite for a yeast to 
be used in making bread is the ability to set up a fermentation 
sufficiently active to afford enough gas to make the bread light, 
and to do this in a reasonable length of time. The ability to set 
up fermentation depends on at least three things, — the enzymes 
of the organism, the character of the material in which it is, and 
the temperature. It is not difficult to supply a favorable tem- 
perature, and probably it would not be difficult to supply a 
favorable medium. for the yeast if only its enzymes were fully 
understood. With all conditions favorable some yeasts induce 
a quicker and more powerful fermentation than others, and this 
activity makes another condition in the choice of yeasts for bread. 

Gas Formation and Bread Making. — Table I shows the relative 
gas production and resulting quality of the bread with a few of 
the cultures used. This fermentation was measured in a two 
per cent glucose bouillon. 

Table i. — Relativk Gas Production of Yeasts and Comparative 
Quality of the Breads Produced. 



Lab. 

No. 


Per cent of gas produced. 




24 hrs. 


8 hrs. 


72 hrs. 


Quality of Breads. 


2 1 
22 
23 
25 

33 
38 
40 








15 
12 


22 

5 


35 

80 


40 



60 




Odor and flavor rather good. Not light. 

Poor texture. Not light . 

Did not rise. 

Good bread. 

Did not rise. 

Excellent bread. 



It is not surprising that there is a distinct correspondence be- 
tween gas production and the quality of the bread. Some 



8o 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[February 



yeasts which failed in bread did not raise the doughs in the 
sHghtest degree. Others caused a shght increase in the bulk, 
but they were either too slow or too weak to make them desirable 
for bread. 

Table 2 gives the comparative results with the pure and mixed 
yeasts in bread making. 

Table 2. — Results of Bread-Making Experiments with Pure ani 

Mixed Yeasts. 



Lab. 

No. 

of 
Yeast 



21 
22 
23 
25 
27 
28 

38 
40 

41 

85 

92 

94 
15s 
156 
157 
158 
183 
184 

iSS 
t86 
189 
190 
191 
274 

275 
276 
277 
278 

279 
280 
281 
282 



Source of Yeast. 



Commercial 

Household 
Commercial 



Brewers' 
yeast 



Com. Lab. 



Commercial 
I Same as 189 

Com. Lab. 



Flavor of Bread. Lightness and tex- 
I ture. 



Rather good 


Very poor 






Excellent 


Good 



Excellent j Excellent 
Not bad ! Very bad 



Good 



I Perfectly flat 

: Rather poor 
I Not very good 
I Good 
I Fairlvgood 
! Fair ' 

Good 

Fair 

Good 



Comments. 



Not worth baking 
Not worth baking 



Not worth baking 



Would not make brea 



Not bad i Very poor 

Very good i Not very good 
Very good | Fairly good 



Would not make brea 
Would not make brea 



Would not make brea i 



This table shows that only a very few of the pure cultures 
produced a good loaf of bread. Among the possible causes of 
this failure are the lack of a culture medium suited to the yeast 



lyio] On the Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread 8i 

in question, feeble fermentative power of the yeast, or a possible 
lack of symbiotic relations with some other organism. 

Symbiotic or Associative Action. — In the spirit industry pure 
cultures of lactic acid bacteria are added to the mash, so pre- 
venting the development of injurious organisms and as Jorgensen^ 
says "exerting an influence on the yeast-cells, both direct and by 
reacting on the nutritive substances." By some the presence of 
lactic acid bacteria in compressed yeast is considered desirable. 
Whether this does any more than act as a germicide and so help 
the yeast gain the ascendency in bread is a question. There may 
be an associative if not a symbiotic action. 

From a commercial sample of yeast, separation plates were 
made on wort agar and gelatin, and on potato agar and gelatin. 
Cultures Nos. 189, 190 and 191 of Table II were characteristic 
in all. These were tried separately and in all the possible com- 
binations, but No. 189 was the only one which would make a loaf 
of bread alone, and only the combinations in which it was present 
resulted successfully. This was the only attempt to discover 
symbiotic action, but similar trials might well be made. Usually 
a plate from a yeast cake will contain bacterial colonies and it 
may be that these sometimes have a part to play in the bread 
making. In this case there was apparently no symbiotic action, 
for neither texture nor flavor seemed to be at all different in the 
combination of cultures than with No. 189 alone. The presence 
of these three distinct types in the yeast cakes of this particular 
brand of commercial yeast may have been purely accidental. 
It hardly seems possible that they were all there for a specific 
purpose, else the results of the separation and handling in pure 
culture would have shown it. Still the manufacturer of this 
special yeast assured us that he understood the value of pure 
cultures and that he could not discuss symbiotic action with us 
without betraying his trade secrets. 

Top and Bottom Yeasts. — There is a prevalent belief and ex- 
pression that the brewers' yeasts, which are pretty generally 
bottom yeasts, will not make bread, and that the distillers' 
yeasts, typical top yeasts, are better adapted to the bread making 
process. Experience seems to bear out this belief, but the 
reasons assigned are not altogether satisfactory. Of the five 



aMicro-Organisms and Fermentation, London, 1900, page 72. 



82 The Journal of Home Economics [February- 

brewers' yeasts tried, three were complete failures in bread, and 
the remainder made only fair bread. Among the last nine cul- 
tures listed in the table there are both bottom and top yeasts. 
No. 281 which makes good bread, and the best of any member of 
this group, is a typical bottom yeast, whereas No. 282, which is 
also a bottom yeast, fails entirely in bread. No. 279, a typical 
top yeast, makes poor bread; No. 278 also, a top yeast, is a 
failure in bread. According to Prior the fermenting power of 
5. elipsoideus I. (No. 281), is greater than that of either Nos. 
279 or 282, measuring the activity by the weight of carbonic acid 
liberated by a given amount of yeast, from a given sugar solution, 
at a given temperature, and in a given time. There seems to be 
no one characteristic which will hold for a dividing line between 
bottom and top fermenting yeasts except the phenomenon that 
the one appears on the surface and the other at the bottom of 
the fermenting liquid. The temperature favorable to top yeasts 
is nearer that of the ordinary handling of bread in the household 
than is the very low temperature used for bottom yeasts, and this 
may be a partial explanation for the failure of the latter. Still 
one of the best bread yeasts in these experiments is a bottom 
yeast and was cultivated along with the other yeasts at 30° C. 
With two of the brewers' yeasts, which failed to make bread in 
the regular way, a range of temperatures was tried in the bread 
making to see if the optimum could be found, but no one tempera- 
ture seemed more favorable than another. Viewig'' says, "A 
good leavening should have not only a high initial fermenting 
power, but should continue to generate carbonic acid after the 
dough is placed into the bake oven, and until its temperature 
reaches 50° C. or over; and this 'oven leavening' quality is an 
important factor in determining the size and shape of the finished 
product. For this reason the bottom fermentation yeasts, which 
are very sensitive to higher temperatures, do not meet the 
requirements of a high-class leavening yeast; and while success- 
ful attempts have been made to adapt this type of yeast to higher 
temperatures it is questionable whether it retains its character as 
a good brewer's yeast." 

Enzymes of Yeast. — A thorough understanding of the enzymes 
of yeast may throw a good deal of light on the whole bread 



aPure Products. 2 (1906), No. 4, page i£ 



rgio] On the Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Brexid 83 

question, and to the understanding of these might well be added 
an understanding of the enzymes of the flour. The enzymes of 
yeast which probably are most influential in bread making are 
those acting on the different sugars, invertase and zymase. 
Whether the slow acting proteolytic enzymes of yeast really 
enter the problem of bread making seems doubtful. Considering 
the enzyme content of yeast a good many suggestions are made 
as to a favorable culture material, but it was felt in this case that 
the ordinary materials, which the housewife might reasonably 
be expected to avail herself of, should be tried first. Since yeasts 
may be grouped according to their power to ferment different 
sugars, it is evident that variation in sugars might be made to the 
advantage of the yeast with no one medium the optimum for all. 
This, of course, would necessitate the use of materials foreign to 
the ordinary household and would be of no importance in a 
practical way. In these experiments glucose, however, was used 
in the culture material because it is the sugar most generally 
fermented by yeasts, though in the bread mixture cane sugar 
was used. The latter is of course the more common in the house- 
hold and is inverted by the majority of yeasts. 

Diastatic Action. — These seems to be a question as to how much 
diastatic action the yeast exerts in saccharifying starch, and as to 
how much sugar really undergoes alcoholic fermentation in the 
bread making process, and whether this varies materially in the 
various ways of making bread. Along this line some chemical 
analyses might be made with profit. It is a common custom to 
make bread without adding sugar to the dough, in which case 
there must be assumed either a diastatic action on the part of 
the yeast or the flour, or enough sugar in the flour to keep up 
fermentation, and the latter is not probable. The diastatic 
action of flour is often spoken of as playing an important part in 
the bread making, but repeated failures to rise of doughs, into 
which pure cultures of yeast have been put, do not incline one to 
the belief that the flour diastase has played an appreciable part 
in the doughs which have become light. 

A series of tests Avas run to learn something of the diastatic 
power of the yeasts. Agar was added to a two per cent soluble 
potato starch solution and plates made. These were streaked 
with the different yeasts and left four to eight days in the incuba- 
tor, then the plates were flooded with iodine and examined to 



84 The Journal of Home Economics [February- 

discover if there were any diffusion areas along the streaks. In 
several plates there were slight clear areas. Check tests were 
made with a plate streaked with a commercial sample of com- 
pressed yeast, but the results were so nearly negative in all cases 
that they were deemed not worth tabulating. 

In an attempt to make a somewhat more exact test for diastatic 
activity, 5 cc. of a 2 per cent soluble potato starch solution was 
put into test-tubes and sterilized ; these tubes were then inocu- 
lated with the pure yeast cultures and left in the incubator 
at 30° C. from four to eight days. At the end of this time a 
measured quantity of iodine of known strength was added to 
these tubes as well as to a check tube and the depth of color 
compared. In practically all cases there was a reddish tinge to 
the blue, showing that some change had taken place in the 
starch, but the variations from the starch control tube were very 
slight. How the result would have been modified by adding 
some proteid food for the yeast was not determined. 

This apparently feeble and slow activity of the diastase 
seemed rather surprising. Dr. H. Stiegeler" says "Some yeasts 
contain only traces of diastatic ferments and brewers' yeast is 
entirely free from them." Vie wig'', mentions the sensitiveness 
of bottom yeasts to temperature and adds, "Another defect of 
the brewer's yeasts is their lack of diastatic ferments. As the low 
percentage of sugars normally contained in flour is rapidly fer- 
mented, the dough would rapidly collapse were it not for the 
presence of diastatic enzymes which continually furnish fresh 
supplies of sugar to the yeast. The main trouble arising from 
the use of brewers' yeast is due to the almost entire absence of 
diastatic enzymes." 

These remarks suggest a possible reason for the failure of some 
yeasts, and the common practice of the bakers in adding malt 
extract to bread seems a confirmation of this view. 

Malt Extract in Bread. — In an effort to discover whether lack 
of diastatic action was the cause of failure of these yeasts in 
bread, malt extract was freshly prepared and added to the 
dough. In a preliminary test with malt extract in compressed 
yeast bread, loaf No. i (check) received no extract, No. 2, 1.5 cc, 
No. 3, 3 cc, No. 4, 6 cc. and No. 5, 12 cc. These loaves formed 



aPure Products i (1905), No. 6, p jyo. 
fcLoc. cit. 



iQioJ On the Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread 85 

a progressive series, the first three being very good and the last 
two less desirable, though fairly good bread. Loaf No. 2 was 
perceptibly whiter than No. i and of finer texture. Loaf No. 3 
was the whitest loaf of all, and of the best texture. No. 4 was 
less white than No. 3, of coarser texture, and a little sticky. No. 
5 was darker than No. 4, of still coarser texture, very sticky, 
readily fell apart and dissolved in the mouth. The volume 
increased from Nos. i to 3, then decreasing again to No. 5 which 
had a slightly greater volume than No. i. 

The strength of the extract was determined by its action on a 
one per cent soluble starch solution. Five cc. of the starch 
solution with 0.5 cc. of the extract gave no color reaction to 
iodine after 10 minutes. The proportion of extract in loaf No. 4 
was used for the pure culture loaves, in the belief that what 
would be a slight excess of extract with yeast itself capable of 
making bread would be enough to furnish the necessary disastase 
for a yeast in which diastase was lacking, and which failed in 
bread because of this lack. The bakers claim that the malt 
hastens the process of fermentation and is a cheaper source of 
sugar than cane sugar. One objection mentioned to its use is 
that while fermentation proceeds more quickly, the liability to 
souring is also greater if the dough is not watched very carefully 
and handled promptly. In this series of loaves with malt 
extract the slow yeasts gave a sour loaf of bread on standing ten 
hours, a thing which never occurred in the pure culture bread 
without malt extract, when doughs frequently stood for twenty- 
four hours without souring in the slightest degree. 

A similar but more extended series of tests was also made, the 
results of which are given in Table 3, on page 87. 

Proteolytic Action of Yeast. — Viewig'' says "brewer's yeast 
secretes a larger proportion of trypsin than does the compressed 
yeast, and since trypsin has the power of cleaving proteids, the 
glutenin of the dough becomes softened to such an extent that it 
fails to retain the liberated carbonic acid; whereas, under the 
influence of compressed yeast, the glutenin remains tough and 
effectively resists the escape of the carbonic acid formed." 
Vines* showed that in 5. cerevisiae both a peptonizing and a 



aLoc. cit. 
6L0C. cit. 



86 The Journal of Home Economics FFebruary 

peptolytic enzyme exist as shown in his experiments in autolysis, 
in digestion of Witte-peptone and of fibrin by the yeast. 

The proteolytic activity of any yeast could be determined by 
testing for cleavage products, and this is the only way of really 
knowing what takes place. Viewig's explanation, if true, might 
throw light on a good many failures of yeast in bread. A rough 
test of his statement was made by mixing the dough for bread in 
the usual manner and allowing it to rise as if it were to be baked 
or, in cases of doughs which would not become light, allowing 
them to stand until the others were light. Instead of baking 
the doughs the gluten was washed out of them and baked. 
The glutens were found to differ among themselves scarcely at 
all. All were elastic and strong, and on baking all were well 
expanded and resembled a fresh bit of gluten just washed from 
the flour and baked. In many cases a second portion of the 
same dough was allowed to stand until the following day, but 
the gluten from this portion seemed not at all different from that 
of the first portion on the preceding day. Two checks were run 
for these, one without any yeast, and one with compressed yeast. 
All of the yeasts in Table 2 were put into doughs and the gluten 
tested, — among them a number of brewers' yeasts. It would 
seem that if the failure to make bread were due to the proteolytic 
action of the yeast on the glutenin, the gluten washed out should 
give some evidence of change. 

Supply of Inorganic Nitrogen. — With the yeasts which failed 
to make bread in the glucose potato meditim, as well as with some 
which succeeded, a trial was made in which one per cent am- 
monium tartrate was added to the potate medium in order to 
afford some inorganic nitrogen. This did not seem to furnish 
what was needed for the yeasts which had already failed in bread 
as may be seen in Table 3. In every loaf of bread with ammo- 
nium tartrate there resulted a closer, finer texture and a whiter 
color, but the flavor was never improved. In fact there was a 
slightly unpleasant taste, after chewing it a minute, the same 
that one frequently gets in some baker's bread. 

Persistence of Yeast Characteristics. — Yeasts differ among 
themselves in response to physical conditions, in enzyme content 
and power to ferment. Numerous trials have been made to 
convert a top-fermenting yeast into a bottom-fermenting yeast 
as well as the reverse process. Changes have been brought 



On the Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread 



Table 3-Comparative Tests ok Yeasts and Either Malt Extract 
OR Ammonium Tartrate for Bread Making. 



Lab. No. 
of Yeast. 



21 
22 

23 
25 
27 
28 

33 
38 
+0 
41 
85 
92 

94 
ISS 
156 
157 

183 
184 
185 
186 
189 
190 
191 
274 

275 
276 
277 
278 
279 
280 
281 
282 



Plain Bread I ^J,T^ J''^\ 
malt extract. 



Poor 
Failure 

Excellent 
Failure 



Excellent 



Very poor 
Failure 

Good 
Failure 



Bread with ammonium tartrate. 



Good 



Very poor " 

Failure 1 Failure 



Failure 



Failure 



Poor 
Fair 



Good 
Failure 



Very poor 

Failure 

Poor 

Failure 

Good 
Failure 



Very poor 

Failure 

Fair 



Failure 



Poor 
Failure 
Poor 
Failure 

Poor 
Failure 



Failure 



Very poor 

Failure 

Good to see, not to eat 

Good color and texture, poor flavor 



Very poor 
Failure 



Poor 
Failure 

Poor 
Failure 

Rather poor 



about m spore and film formation, but the results of these trials 
seem rather conflicting. While the enzymes vary greatly in 
diflferent yeasts, Klocker« says that one of the most constant 
characteristics for any given yeast is its enzyme content. 
Throughout this work with yeasts the accuracy with which 
cultures duplicated themselves in bread was remarkable even 
after several months cultivation on a bouillon or wort agar'slant 
With a pure culture the resulting bread can be counted on with 
considerable assurance. 



oFermentation Organisms, London and New York, ic 



88 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Amount of Yeast in Bread. — To gain some idea of the effect of 
differing amounts of yeast, loaves of bread were made with the 
same materials used for pure culture bread with the exception of 
the yeast. In all the tests the compressed yeast cakes were 
moulded together to insure uniform sampling. 

In Experiment No. i, a series of four loaves was made in which 
the first had much less than one cake of ordinary compressed 
yeast, and the last had somewhat less than two cakes. These 
formed a progressive series, the color, grain and texture improv- 
ing with the amount of yeast. 

In Experiment 2, three loaves were made using respectively 
9, 18 and 27 gms. of compressed yeast, the smallest amount 
being far more than is ordinarily used in household methods. 
These loaves made a consistent series, the desirability increasing 
with the amount of yeast; the texture of the last was best of all. 

In Experiment 3, four loaves were made with yeast in the ratio 
I, 2, 4, 8, loaf No. I receiving 12.69 S^^- compressed yeast, No. 2, 
25.38 gms., No. 3, 50.76 gms. and No. 4, 101.52 gms. Loaf No. i 
contained a little more than one compressed yeast cake, and No. 
4 more than nine cakes. These formed a well graded series in 
color and texture, No. i being creamy white, firm and not crumbly, 
No. 2, somewhat whiter and crumbling to some extent, No. 3, still 
whiter, crumbly, squeezing almost together and rebounding with 
good gas distribution, and No. 4, grayish white, excessively 
crumbly and elastic and with good gas distribution. The flavor 
of Nos. I and 2 was very good; Nos. 3 and 4 had no taste of 
yeast, as in the so-called 'yeasty' bread, but they lacked entirely 
any flavor of the grain and were rather tasteless although edible. 

In loaf No. i of Experiment 4, was used 10 gms. compressed 
yeast and in No. 2, 20 gms., so that both had yeast far in excess 
of household practice. Both were good and there was very 
slight difference in them. Experiment 5 was a duplication of the 
previous experiment, except that the dough was mixed in the 
evening. By the next morning both loaves had risen and fallen. 
Both made good looking bread, but were sour. 

In Experiment 6, loaf No. i received i gm. of compressed yeast, 
No. 2, 2.5 gms. and No. 3, 5 gms. The loaves were mixed in the 
evening, as in experiment No. 5, and in the morning were in good 
condition. No. 3 was the lightest, most elastic, and had the best 
texture. It will be noted that while the method of procedure 



iQio] On the Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread 89 

was the same as in the previous experiment the quantity of yeast 
used was much less. 

From these tests it would seem that the limits in the amount 
of yeast are far apart, all the way from i.o to 101.52 g. in a loaf 
of ordinary size resulting in bread good enough to eat. The 
amount of yeast and time required are in inverse ratio. 
The texture changes, improving with the amount of yeast to a 
certain point, then becoming poorer, but the secret of flavor in 
bread is surely not to be found in the amount of yeast used. 

Acidity in Bread.— It is well known that the quicker the dough 
becomes light the less apt it is to be sour, and that the rate of 
fermentation increases with the amount of yeast used. 

Damaged flour will cause acidity in bread, but free acid is the 
product largely of fermentative action in the dough. To learn 
something of the reaction of the pure culture breads some tests 
were made, in which the quantity of normal sodium hydroxide 
required to neutrahze 100 gms. of the crumb of bread served as a 
measure of the acidity of the bread. 

According to Lehmann, when 100 gms. of the fresh crumb 
require 1-2 cc. normal alkali, there results a sweet loaf; 2-4 cc, 
one very slightly sour; 4-7 cc, one slightly sour; 7-10 cc' 
one fairly sour; 10-15 cc., one strongly acid; and 15-20 cc.' 
one excessively acid. The pure culture breads, characteristi- 
cally sweet to the taste, naturally showed little acidity when 
titrated with caustic soda, but the results with a few were as 
follows: Baker's bread, 7.0 cc normal Na OH; bread with 
yeast No. 156, 3.2 cc; No. 157, 3.6 cc; No. 183, 1.5 cc; No. 184, 
2.0 cc; No. 185, 2.8 cc; No. 186, 1.5 cc; and No. 189, 2.0 cc' 
Conclusions. —TsLhXe 2 shows that with the method adopted for 
cultivation and making into bread, the vast majority of the yeasts 
failed. The experiments shown in Table 3 seem to indicate that 
the failure is not due to the lack of diastase else the addition of malt 
extract would have made an improvement. The experiments 
also seem to indicate that failure is not due to the cleavage of the 
glutenin, else the gluten would have shown some physical sign of 
the change. These gluten tests do not at all disprove a pro- 
teolytic enzyme, but do they not show that the cause of the 
failure of the bread is not in a gluten so broken down that it 
fails physically to retain carbonic acid ? The proteolytic enzymes 
of yeast are slow in acting and it is probable that in the short 



Qo The Journal of Home Economics [February 

time consumed in the fermentation of bread the proteolytic 
cleavage is so small that it plays no part in the bread problem. 
Table 3 also shows that supply of inorganic nitrogen does not 
improve the activity of the yeast, and that the change made in 
the bread is onl}'- along the line of catering to a false standard of 
quality in bread, — whiteness and close, fine texture. 

Table i shows the close correspondence between the gas 
production of the yeast and the quality of the resulting bread. 
So far as we know the question of gas production is the chief 
factor in the selection of yeast for bread making. Both in the 
bakeshop and in the home the yeast which will quickly make a 
light loaf of bread is sought, and what other possible effects the 
yeasts might produce in bread are at present little con- 
sidered. 

The results from handling and selectin;^ from thirty-three 
cultures of yeast, eighteen of which were known and the others 
unidentified, inclines us to the belief that flavor in bread is not 
to be determined by yeast, possibly not even affected by it. 
If it were possible to supply a culture material suitable both for 
the yeast and the bread we might find that some of the yeasts 
which now fail in bread would succeed, and otherwise we cannot, 
of course, be assured as to their possible effect" upon flavor. 
From a knowledge of the individual yeast gained by experiment- 
ing a favorable culture material might be prepared, but if the 
yeast is to serve as a ferment for bread the material must be one 
which will not impair the taste or healthfulness of the bread; 
and if it is really to be useful, must not require anything which is 
unusual or difficult for the housewife to obtain. 

The simple process of selection as we have carried it on might 
be extended over a far greater number of yeasts, and from the 
number which fail here some might be found which under other 
conditions would be successful in bread. If there were any 
difference in Havor among those which have successfully fer- 
mented bread a greater stimulus would be given for further 
search among the yeasts. 

Since for obvious reasons the time allotted for fermenting 
bread is short it seems quite possible that an insufficient oppor- 
tunity to develop flavor is given. The potato flasks after twenty- 
four hours in the incubator give no ethereal odor such as the wine 
maker detects in his must cultures. 



iQio] On the Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread 91 

In no case, either of the yeasts which failed to make bread or 
those which succeeded, was there any suggestion of sourness or 
any unpleasant taste. The yeasts which successfully fermented 
bread gave excellent loaves, which were noticeably sweet and of 
fine flavor; but differing so little among themselves that very 
slight, if any, difference could be detected on even the most 
critical tasting. Among the yeasts examined there seems to be 
no choice on the ground of producing flavor in bread. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Beyerinck, M. W.— Ueber Nachweis und Verbreitung der 
Glukase, das Enzym der Maltose. Centbl. Bakt. [etc.] i, (1895), 
No. 6, pp. 221-229. 

Effront, J.— Enzymes and Their Applications, New York and 
London, 1902. 

Green, J. R.— Soluble Ferments and Fermentation, Cambridge, 
1899. 

Hansen, E. Chr.— Practical Studies in Fermentation, London 
and New York, 1896. 

Harden, A. and Young, W. G.— The Alcoholic Ferment of 
Yeast- Juice, Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, 77, 
(1905-6), p. 405; 78, (1906), p. 369. 

Jago, W.— The Science and Art of Breadmaking, London, 1895. 

Jorgensen, A.— Micro-Organisms and Fermentation, London, 
1900. (Contains an extensive bibliography.) 

Klocker, A.— Fermentation Organisms, London and New York, 
1903. 

Lafar, F. — Technical Mycology, London, 1903. 
Pasteur, L.— Studies on Fermentation, London, 1879. 
Stiegeler, H— Bread, Pure Products, I, (1905) No. 6, pp. 290- 
297. 

Viewig.— Pure Products, 2 (1906) No. 4, p. 1S8. 
Vines, S. H.— The Proteases of Plants, Ann. Bot. 18 (1904,) 
p. 289. 

Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station, Bui. 160 (1906): 
The Influence of Selected Yeasts upon Fermentation. 

Will, H.— Studien iiber Proteolyse durch Hefen. Cent. 
Bakt. 2 Abt. (1901), No. 7, p. 794. 



JELLY MAKING.^ 

The object of the experiments reported was to determine as 
exactly as possible the conditions necessary for the formation of 
fruit jelHes. The effect of adding sugar and organic acids to fruit 
juices in jelly making was studied as well as the relation of boiling 
point and specific gravity, and the possibility of making jelly of 
good texture from an artificial fruit juice made of tartaric acid, 
sugar, and pectin isolated from fruits. The work was conducted 
with fall fruits only. 

The author concludes that the necessary constituents of a jelly 
making fruit juice are (a) pectin and (b) acid. That acid is 
necessary was shown negatively by neutralizing the acids of crab- 
apple and grape juices with tenth-normal sodium hydroxide, 
following which no jelly could be obtained, and positively by the 
addition of organic acids to sweet apple, pear and peach juices, 
which thereupon yielded jellies of very fair quality, though of 
altered flavor. 

Cane sugar was found to be a desirable accessory constituent, 
though glycerine was substituted in crab apple jellies and yielded 
a product of excellent texture, fair taste and remarkable keeping 
qualities. Jellies were also made by boiling down fruit juices 
without sugar, but about six times the quantity of juice was 
necessary and the texture was very tough. On the other hand 
it seems probable that using too much sugar is a most frequent 
cause of failure in jelly making. The exact proportion of sugar 
to juice is somewhat difficult to determine, but the results 
indicate that it depends more upon the proportion of pectin 
present than upon any other one factor. If too much sugar is 
used, the pectin is unable to form a jelly which will completely 
fill the volume of liquid, hence a soft mass results. This is 
particularly liable to occur through overdilution of the fruit 
juice in the extraction process as this leads to the use of an excess 
of sugar. When once an over-proportion of sugar to juice had 
been used, no amount of boiling would remedy the difficulty, 
but the addition to the material of an equal volume of fresh juice 
yielded, upon boiling, a jelly of very good texture though of 
impaired color. 

oA digest of the following articles by Miss Nellie E. Goldthwaite, Ph.D., of the Research 
Laboratory of the Department of Household Science, University of Illinois: Contribution 
on the Chemistry and Physics of Jelly Making, J. Indust. and Eng. Cliem. i (1909) No. 6, 
pp. 333-340; The Secret of Good Jelly, Good Houstkeepmg (1909) pp. 9a-9S- 

92 



Jelly Making 03 

Regarding the amount of inversion of the cane sugar during 
the process, some inversion is deemed desirable, but this should 
not approach completeness. "So far as our researches now 
extend it seems better not to boil sugar and juice together from 
start to finish in jelly-making, but rather to add the sugar so that 
it may be boiled with the juice for a period not to exceed one-half 
the total time of cooking. However, we wish to investigate 
this point further." 

The physical constants of hot juice ready to jelly were deter- 
mined as substantially, boiling point io3°C. and specific gravity 
1.28. 

With reference to the production of artificial jelly, the author 
states that jelly of excellent quality was easily prepared from a 
I per cent solution of pectin (isolated from fruit juices by means 
of alcohol) and 0.5 per cent solution of tartaric acid, adding 
to the mixture heated to boiling, ^ volume of sugar, and con- 
tinuing the boiling until jelly was formed on testing. "The total 
time of boiling did not exceed 15 minutes. Jellies made as above 
were nearly colorless, but were excellent in texture and taste. 
When a few cubic centimeters of grape- juice were added to the 
pectin solution the color of the jellies was very pleasing. That 
these jellies were not made directly from fruit- juice would not be 
suspected from taste or texture. Jellies equally good were made 
in this way from pectin from sweet apples, crab apples and 
peaches. This last fact would seem to indicate that the pectin of 
peaches does not differ materially, at least from a practical 
standpoint, from that of other jelly-making fruits. 

"It may be of interest to add that pectin was extracted from 
jelly (the jelly being previously dissolved in an equal volume of 
water) by the method used for extracting pectin from fruit 
juices. This pectin apparently correponded in its physical and 
chemical characteristics with that extracted directly from fruit- 
juices. Good fruit jelly invariably gives the alcohol test for 
pectin. These facts vrould seem to indicate that pectin in the 
formation of jelly does not undergo any deep-seated change, but 
rather that the phenomenon of jelly-making is more nearly 
physical than chemical." 

Stated briefly, jelly-making, in the opinion of the author, 
"seems to consist in so controlling conditions by means of acid 
and sugar and boiling as to cause the pectin to be precipitated in 
a continuous mass throughout the volume allotted to it." 



CONFIRMATION OF THE WORK OF MISS SNOW ON THE 
BOILING OF SUGAR WITH FRUIT, 

Edna D. Day. 

Department of Home Economics, University of Missouri. 

Before having had time to read the June number of the 
Journal of Home Economics, on my return this fall I set my 
advanced food class to work on the problem as to the time of 
adding sugar in the cooking of acid fruit. Careful experiments 
were tried (i) comparing the sweetness of solutions of the same 
strength of cane sugar and a mixture of levulose and dextrose; 
and (2) cooking cranberries, grapes and apples and adding the 
sugar at the beginning and at the end of the cooking. Our 
methods were the same as those of Miss Snow, except that we 
did not try to determine the acid or sugar content of the fruit, 
and that we used cranberries and grapes as well as apples. 
My class reached the same conclusions as Miss Snow: 
(i) That invert sugar is less sweet than cane sugar ; (2) that in 
cooking such fruits as apples, cranberries and grapes, while the 
product is slightly less sweet if the sugar is added at the beginning 
than it is if it is added at the end, still the difference is too small 
to be of practical importance. 



A recent number of the Canterbury Agricultural and 
An English Pastoral Association's Journal contains itn account oi a 

Experiment in successful experiment, conducted by the Children's 
Colonization. Home Association of England, in receiving "poor 

children for upbringing in such parts of Englisli colonies as provided whole- 
some surroundings, good educational advantages, and an invigorating 
climate." For this purpose the association purchased a farm in New 
Brunswick, Canada, in April, 1906. It is 15 miles from St. John's, close 
to a primary school, and within reach of secondary schools. There is ac- 
commodation for 20 children and 3 officials. Two women, one a trained 
nurse, are in charge of the children. The older girls are taught cooking, 
washing, and practical housework. The farm is worked by a Canadian 
farmer who, teaches the older boys practical work, and is superintended bv 
a committee of local Canadian men and women. The cooperation of the 
Canadian Government has greatly assisted the enterprise. When old 
enough the boys and girls obtain work on neighboring farms. Great care 
is taken in selecting the employers. The cost of maintenance is from $77 to 
$110 per annum for each child. 



94 



TRAVELING COOKING SCHOOLS. 
Commenting on the article on traveling cooking schools which 
appears in the April number of this Journal, a recent num- 
ber of the Wisconsin Farmer contains the following; 

"Special trains have been run through the fanning districts of 
the com belt district to instruct farmers how to grow more and 
better corn, oats and wheat; how to increase the dairy output; 
how to build and maintain good roads; how to increase and im- 
prove the yield of the orchard. Why not a special train to 
teach farmers' wives and daughters the latest and most approved 
methods of cooking?" 

"The suggestion is not one to laugh at. In fact, it is simply a 
suggestion borrowed from the actual experience of Germany, 
where traveling cooking schools have met with wonderful success. 
Not content with establishing rural schools where farmers' 
daughters may learn the domestic arts, Germany has instituted 
the cooking school on wheels, running it to the very kitchen door 
of the farmer's house." 

"America has not gone so far, nevertheless it has done more 
along this line than the average person thinks. At the national 
apple show, held in the Northwest last fall, daily demonstrations 
were given in preparing and serving apples as food in 300 differ- 
ent manners. These demonstrations were conducted by skilled 
domestic economists from the state agricultural college. At the 
Iowa State Fair this year one of the unique attractions was a 
daily cooking school conducted by experts, with free instruction 
given to farm girls and women. Other states are doing likewise, 
while the domestic economy classes at all the agricultural colleges 
are largely attended and productive of much good. 

"But the situation in America, as regards ability to attend 
school and colleges, is not materially different from the situation 
m Germany. There are thousands of women and girls who can- 
not quit their housework even for a week's training at the state 
fairs. These women are unaware of a dozen ways in which field 
com may be served as palatable, delicious food. There are 
dishes made of rolled oats with which they are unfamiliar. Wheat 
is to them a material for the baking of bread or biscuit, and 
but little else. There is not a grain or vegetable product of the 
farm but can be prepared as food in a dozen or score of ways with 
which the average housewife— whether she lives in the city or on 
the farm — is unfamihar." 

95 



EDITORIAL. 

A twelve month ago the American Association 
The Second of Home Economics was formed in Washing- 

Annual tion with a membership of 700; its second 

Meeting. annual meeting held in Boston during the past 

Christmas holidays increased the roll call to 
1,300. So rapid an increase in membership would seem to afford 
proof that a real need of the members was being met by the 
meetings of the Association and the Journal which is its organ. 
This second annual meeting will be long remembered. Whether 
in the future any other city can so honor the draft made on it for 
a cordial reception and help on the program seems just now quite 
impossible to those who were present. 

We call attention to the reports of the meeting presented 
elsewhere in this issue as proof of the wide range of topics 
treated. What characterized the meeting and what, we hope, 
will characterize all future meetings, was the prominence given 
to the application of the results of scientific work to all the 
practical problems that engage the teacher, the dietitian, the 
housewife and the social worker. The opening papers on the 
Sciences in relation to Home Economics Courses were given by 
men of solid attainments, each in his field; all the speakers 
insisted on the thorough training of teachers of Home Economics 
in the basic sciences, while the excellent illustrations they 
furnished as to the bearing of these sciences on the affairs of 
daily life convinced also the listening layman that the time has 
come when man in order to conquer his environment and develop 
out of it a successful life, must obtain help from the careful and 
minute study of practical questions by the methods of exact 
science, whether the problem be that of the kitchen fire, the 
building of his house or the selection of his food and clothing. 

Another group of scientific papers filled the evening of Friday, 
when the topic presented was Recent Progress in the Study of 
Nutrition in Relation to Dietetics. The presentation of this 
subject by three specialists of national repute was most instruc- 
tive, giving as it did a lucid statement of the certainties in 
this field and revealing, what was, perhaps, of still greater 
importance to the students and teachers who listened, a 
view of the patient methods by which results are reached and 

96 



iQio] Editorials 97 

putting them en rapport with the scientific habit of mind which 
fronts the unsolved problem with unabated interest and refuses 
to draw conclusions without sufficient data. 

Those who take more satisfaction in certainties than in possibi- 
lities, who long unspeakably that today's path may be straighten- 
ed, must have seized with avidity on one statement made early in 
the first session: "Notwithstanding the dearth of knowledge in 
certain fields it may be truly said that not a tithe of the discoveries 
of science have yet been applied to the improvement of practical 
methods and processes that affect daily life." 

Our best wishes go out to the scientist who heeds not the 
call of today and tomorrow, his eye on a fair future that has 
no date. May the year develop an abundant crop of those 
skilled in the application of existing truth to the needs of daily 
life. 

_, There is a rare form of insanity known to 

. physicians in which the patient is forever wash- 

ing his hands and fancying that he is polluted 
by every contact. A few years ago when we 
were at the beginning of our fight against tuberculosis, typhoid 
fever and other diseases that may be carried in various forms of 
filth, it seemed that a mild epidemic of this form of insanity would 
be a blessing to any community, as it would insure the clean 
hands which must be insisted upon if we are to have clean food. 
However, when one sees the wholesale and often unwarranted 
application of a little knowledge of bacteria to every phase of Hfe 
one is thankful for all the existing sanity and desirous of its exten- 
sion. For in the wake of every reform is found the trail of the 
extremist. The Journal of the American Medical Association 
calls attention in a late issue to certain statements in a book 
entitled Good Health and How We Won It, by Mr. Upton Sin- 
clair and Mr. Michael Williams. It seems that the writers 
recovered their health by decreasing the amount of their food 
and omitting meat entirely. We do not hear as a reason that 
these gentlemen felt that they were approaching middle life when 
just this change in the diet has frequently been recommended by 
physicians though for reasons unconnected with bacteria; they 
say they have abandoned eating of meat because of the great 
numbers of bacteria that it contains, there being it is claimed 
hundreds of millions of bacteria in different cuts of beef steak and 
several varieties of sausage. 



98 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

It is said that every form of error may be traced to faulty logic; 
here the trouble seems to be that the premises are false. "Meat 
contains man}'- bacteria. All bacteria are harmful, therefore, 
etc." The investigators do not state the kind of bacteria nor the 
way they came to be present in the meat, and evidently they 
believe that meat in and of itself is naturally and normally laden 
with these minute forms of life. As a matter of fact though 
results of a different character have been reported not infre- 
quently, carefully made and carefully controlled laboratory work 
with all precautions taken has shown that the raw flesh of 
healthy animals is sterile and only in certain animal diseases is 
bacterial life present in the tissues. 

All living things, both plants and animals, are subject to bac- 
terial diseases, but if bacteria are found on raw or cooked meat 
from healthy animals it is safe to say that they were lodged there 
by passing air currents just as they are lodged on any other food 
thus exposed. Rightly interpreted then, the laboratory experi- 
ments indicate that all foods should be protected from accidental 
contamination by bacteria, as harmful species may be present 
among them, not that meat should be excluded from the diet 
because bacteria happen to be found on it. 

A very few bacteria, not more than 50 or 60 species, are 
known to be harmful, many are known to serve a useful 
function and it is thought that some varieties may even 
prove to be necessary to the digestive processes. The 
intestinal tract of man swarms with bacteria, and the experi- 
menter has never been able to free from bacteria the diges- 
tive tract of an animal that has once lived under normal 
conditions. Of the foods we eat there are absolutely none free 
from bacteria, if we except cooked food fresh from the fire. The 
purest milk obtainable for the table contains thousands of bac- 
teria to the cubic centimeter, while commercial milk may have 
many millions. Buttermilk and other forms of acid milk also 
contain correspondingly large numbers. Many hundreds of 
these harmless bacteria are known and named, while the harmful 
or pathogenic bacteria number only a few score. It is these few 
malevolent microbes that must be avoided, and hence all the 
precautions we have adopted as to cleanliness in hospital, market, 
dairy, and kitchen. But if life is to be worth living we must learn 
where these objectionable varieties come from in order to con- 



iQio] Editorials 99 

centrate at the proper place our use of that eternal vigilance 
which is the price of health. 

Here are a few suggestions. Human contact with food is 
probably the greatest source of danger. If a piece of dry bread 
fall on the floor of a clean private house the bacteriologist tells us 
it might be picked up and eaten with impunity. Not so if this 
bread were to be dropped on the floor of a trolley car, especially 
in the old days when expectoration was common. The driver's 
hand which grasps the top of the milk bottle which he delivers 
may leave bacteria there and the bottle should be washed before 
the milk is poured out. The diminishing of the number of bac- 
teria in our food by the practice of cleanly habits (and no one of 
these habits is more important than the thorough washing of the 
hands before handling and preparing food and before meals) 
is recommended by all hygienists; but there should be no 
morbid fear of the consumption of foods that have been the 
dependence of the race since the dawn of civilization and before, 
simply because we do not ordinarily eliminate from them every 
trace of bacterial life. 

Of great interest is the report of the Women's 
Women's Institutes of the Province of Ontario recently 

Institutes issued. In part II of the report is given a 

in Ontario. complete list of the meetings to be held in the 

different parts of the Province in May, June 
and July. They are some 400 in number, the talks being given 
by 34 lecturers whose special subjects are given under each name. 
These subjects cover sanitation and hygiene, training of children, 
economy and home management, together with the detailed 
treatment by demonstration lectures of the domestic arts, 
cookery, sewing, and household methods. The organization 
seems to be most thorough, as we should expect from our Cana- 
dain neighbor. Moreover the report is "Printed by order of 
the Legislative Assembly of Ontario." 

Through an oversight the thesis published in 
A Correction. the October number of the Journal entitled 

The Functions of the Trade-mark, by Miss 
Anna Roberta Van Meter, was stated to have been sub- 
mitted at the University of Illinois. The institution which 
should have been thus credited is the University of Chicago. 



NEWS FROM INSTITUTIONS. 

The following original studies in the fields related to 

niversi y Home Economics appear in doctors' dissertations for 

Dissertations. ^^^ degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the .American 

universities last year. The list in full is printed in Science, August 20, 

1909. 

Yale University — Arthur Wayland Dox: "The Intracellular Enzymes 
of Penicillium and Asporgillus, with Especial Reference to those of Penicil- 
lium Cametnberti," [Studies of Camembert cheese]; Warren Witherell 
Hilditch; "Studies on the Influence of Alcohol upon Metabolism;" 
Israel Simon Kleiner: "Studies in Intermediary Metabolism — the 
Physiological Action of some Pyrimidines;" John Franklin Lyman : "Ex- 
perimental Studies on the Metabolism of the Purins in the Mammalian 
Organism;" Victor Caryl Myers: "The Chemistry and Physiology of the 
Pyrimidines, Thymine, Cytosine and Uracil;" Mary Davies Swartz: 
"Nutrition Investigations on the Carbohydrates of Lichens, Algae and 
related Substances." 

Cornell University — Ludwig Reinhold Geissler: "The Measurement of 
Attention;" William Henry Pyle: "An Experimental Study of Ex- 
pectation." 

Columbia University — George Herbert Betts: "The Distribution and 
Functions of Mental Imagery;" Walter Hollis Eddy: "The Synthesis of 
some Proteid Salts;" Alfred Peirce Lothrop : "The Efl'ects of Bone Ash in 
the Diet on the Gastro-intestinal Conditions of Dogs." 

University of Chicago — Wales Harrison Packard: "On Resistance to 
Lack of Oxygen in Animals;" Harvey Andrew Peterson : "The Influence 
of Complexity and Dissimilarity in Memory." 

Johns Hopkins University— Louis J. Rettger: "The Coagulation of 
Blood." 

Harvard University — Herbert Joseph Spinden : "Maya .Art;" William 
Dunlop Tait: "An Experimental Study of Memory in Relation to 
Psychophysical .A.ttitudes." 

University of Pennsylvania — Marion Mackenzie: "Phyto-phenology — 
The Relation of Climate to Plant Life;" Stevenson Smith: "Studies in 
EducabiUty." 

Clark University— John Franklin Bobbitt: "The Growth of Philip- 
pine Children;" Louise Ellison; "Consciousness in Relation to Learn- 
ing." 

George Washington University — Harry Wilson Houghton : "The Effect 
of Cold Storage on Chicken Meat;" George Whitfield Stiles: "The Pos- 
sibility of Shellfish Contamination from Sewage-polluted Waters." 

During the autumn quarter, Dr. S. P. Breckinridge of 

University ^^^^ Department of Household .Administration de- 

^ ■ livered a series of five lectures on the Modern Household 

before the faculty and students of the department. In these lectures 



^9io] News from Institutions loi 

she attempted to formulate and to discuss briefly the problems which 
seem to her of peculiar significance to the intelligent housekeeper at the 
present time. The sequence of thought was somewhat as follows : 

In the recent past, women in the family have been set free from le^al 
disabilities under which they formerly labored. Whereas married wom'en 
prior to 1848-1875 in America and to 1873 in England were legally in- 
capable, could not control property, transact business, earn wages which 
they could control, or exercise legal power over their children, they are 
now in many places legally capable in respect to all these things. 

On the other hand, in the earlier time they were often industrially and 
economically competent because the home was an industrial unit ' The 
removal of the industries from the home and the failure on the part of the 
women at the head of households to retain control over them has meant 
(1) that the function of the housekeeper has been reduced to the per- 
formance of the as yet unorganized tasks, and to spending, and (2) that 
modern industry has been built upon principles governing business in 
which the desire for a profit dictates instead of upon principles applicable 
to the home in which the desire for well-being dominates. Legal compe- 
tence has, therefore, come hand in hand with industrial and domestic in- 
competence. The problem is, then, to apply the intelligence formerly 
necessary for the performance of the industrial processes within the home 
to the spending function and likewise to the control of the industrial 
processes wherever they are carried on. 

The first means the acquisition of accurate information with reference 
to the business methods of the time, not so much that they may be imi- 
tated m the management of the home as that exploitation by means of 
them may be avoided. The second means a wider and wider application 
of what may be called the principle of compulsory standardization and 
more and more complete utilization of the services of experts in the per- 
formance of duties connected with the application of social standards 
In Illustration of the former point reference was made to the manner in 
which the advertiser is making use of psychological principles to exploit 
the buyer through devices of advertising and displav. As an example 
under the second point, attention was called to the extent to which hous- 
ing conditions, the purity of food, the various stages of the educational 
process, the conditions of industrial workers and even the decency and 
efticiency of the home are in process of standardization, so that the 
engineer, architect, bacteriologist, chemist, educator, industrial super- 
visor, and probation officer are as experts aiding in doing away with 
unendurable conditions and in the establishment of those which are 
socially sound and advantageous. ' . . 

Teachers College, The Educational Museum opened for the academic 
Columbia year 1909-10 on Monday. November 1, 1909. 

University. The first special exhibit for the year was arranged with 

reference to the work of the newly-opened School of Household Arts It 
consisted of a large part of the valuable collection of seventeenth, eigh- 
teenth, and nineteenth century samplers owned by George A. Plimpton 



I02 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Esq., of New York, representing the needlework of girls in various parts 
of America and Eurojje during a period of about two hundred years. 
This special exhibit closed on Noveinber 30. 

A department of Domestic Science has been established 
. ^ and is being organized under the direction of Miss 

University. Neva A. Scott, a graduate of the National Cooking 

School of Washington, D. C. Instruction is to be offered in cookery, 
dressmaking, millinery, raffia work, nature and treatment of textile 
fabrics, etc. 

Manitoba The board of directors have decided to extend further 

Agricultural the usefulness of this institution by opening its doors 

College. to the young women of Western Canada. 

The course in Household Science to be inaugurated will begin on May 3, 
1910, and terminate about the end of August, and will cover the following 
subjects: Cooking, sewing, nursing, laundry work, English, chemistry, 
horticulture, home dairying and keeping of home 'ccounts. Until a 
building can be provided which will be devoted solely to this work, the 
bo)^'s residence, class rooms, laboratories, etc., will be used; while the 
top floors of the dairy and science building will be converted into kitchens, 
and laundry and dressmaking rooms. Miss A. B. Juniper, dean of the 
School of Household Science in Macdonald College, since its establish- 
ment, has been appointed professor of Household Science. 

The demand for training in this branch of study has been a pressing one 
in Manitoba, and it is believed the board has acted wisely in- making the 
necessary- provision for it at their earliest possible opportunity. 

-r. , ^ „ The Post-Graduates' Course in Home Science which 

King's College . .^ . . 

, jjj was opened last year is proving its value in a manner 

J J * encouraging to its original promoters. 

The students have more than doubled in number. 

Of the fourteen present this year, one is an Oxford graduate, three are 

Cambridge graduates, four are graduates of Schools of Domestic Economy 

and the remainder are women of varied experience. 

The students are all loyally enthusiastic in their interest in the work. 

With very few exceptions, they are looking forward to posts as lecturers, 

inspectors and heads of departments. 

A circular describing this vocational school, recently 
Ajoanv Voca- 

organized in Albany, has just been issued and may be 

obtained from the New York State Board of Education, 

Department of Trade Schools, Albany, N. Y. 

This school takes pupils who have had the "fundamentals" in the first 

six grades and furnishes a course including the seventh and eighth grades 

in the elementary school and two years beyond this. This provides for 

book work and practical hand work. The first two years the studies are 

general in character, specific lines of work being developed in the last 



igio] News from Institutions 103 

two. The "home making" teacher is a graduate of Pratt Institute, and 
has had two years work at Wellesley College, and two years' experience as 
teacher in Domestic Science in a western college. The "sewing and house- 
hold design" teacher has had work in special lines in the summer course of 
Columbia and N'ew York universities. 

The aim of the school is to give provision for the vocational needs of 
those likely to enter industrial pursuits. The work for girls is as follows : 

First Year. Minutes 

per week 
Sewing : hand and machine, simple garment making 225 

Plain cooking and general housekeeping 45O 

Design 225 

Practical mathematics 225 

English literature and composition 225 

Geography 225 

Ojjcning exercises, music, physiology and study 225 

1.800 
Second Year 
Sev.-ing: hand and machine, garment making, embroidery, 

textiles 225 

Cooking (plain, fancy, invalid), housekeeping 450 

Design 225 

Practical mathematics 225 

English literature and composition 225 

History and civics 225 

Opening exercises, music, hygiene and study 225 

1,800 
Third Year. 

Special work in millinery or dressmaking or Domestic Science 600 

Design 300 

Applied mathematics 225 

English literature and composition 225 

Practical physics relating to the home 225 

Industrial history I5O 

Opening exercises and unassigned 7,5 

1,800 
Fourth Year. 

Special work in millinery or dressmaking or Domestic Science 600 

Design 3O0 

.\pplied mathematics 225 

English literature and composition . . . . 225 

Chemistry relating to home and industry 225 

Economics and industrial conditions 1,50 

Opening exercises and nniissigned 75 

1.800 



I04 The Journal of Home Economics [Febmary 

During the first year at this school, the course is the 
Boston High same for all pupils ; six periods per week being given 

School of ^p sewing and four to cooking and housewifery. At 

Practical Arts. ^^^ beginning of the second year a girl may elect 
Household Science, dressmaking or millinery as her special subject and 
devote to it 10 periods per week. She still has, however, a certain amount 
of work in the other two subjects and 20 periods per week of required 
subjects. 

The course in Household Science aims to train girls in all that pertains 
to the art and science of practical housekeeping. To this end practice is 
given in the care of the house and in marketing, cooking, and planning 
meals for persons of different occupations as well as for families and for 
institutions. 

The school has two kitchens, each equipped with twelve gas stoves of 
the common type, arranged in groups of four, kitchen tables, and a sink. 
An attempt has been made to have the conditions as nearly like those of 
the home kitchen as possible. Two girls use a stove together, thereby ac- 
commodating 24 students at a time. The work in the kitchen is practical 
cookery. Meats, vegetables, butter, eggs, etc., are bought, prices com- 
pared, and studies made for the purpose of learning to provide wholesome 
and economical dishes. More delicate food is also prepared. In the 
chemical laboratory the scientific part of the work is carried on. The two 
departments are closely correlated. 

Every day about 150 girls cook, and the food is sold to the teachers and 
pupils at the lunch hour. In this way the money obtained pays for the 
materials used, these costing about $60 weekly. 

In connection with this department, a flat of six rooms has been rented 
near the school, and groups of girls are taken there for lessons in laundry 
work, cleaning, and general care of the house. Meals are planned and 
prepared by the girls working in groups of five or six and these meals are 
served to invited guests. The science department takes up the study of 
heating and ventilating the house, the plumbing and general sanitation, 
and the drawing department deals with the decorating and furnishing of 
different rooms. 

In this school, which was made a public school last 
Boston Trade September, the Domestic Science work is on a plan 

School for Girls. very different from that at the Boston High School of 
Practical Arts. 

The serving of a hot lunch to girls who are at work in various depart- 
ments from 8.30 a. m. till 5 p, m. is the main feature. The preparation of 
the lunch is done by the pupils and they are given as much practice as 
possible in cooking and serving it and in cleaning up afterwards. 

The kitchen has been enlarged and the work will be broadened in the 
near future. Those in charge of the school believe that girls who are 
fitting to enter the trades of millinery and dressmaking should receive 
sufTicient instruction in cookery and housewifery to enable them to become 
competent homemakers. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The second annual meeting of the Domestic Science 
Ilhnois Domestic Section of the High School Conference was held at the 
Science Con- Woman's Building of the University of IlHnois, Novem- 

ference. ber 19, and was attended by teachers from all parts of 

the state. 
Dean Davenport of the College of Agriculture of the university gave an 
address on The Educational Value of Domestic Science in the High School 
which was very helpful. Some of the thoughts brought out were as 
follows : Whatever the work of the grades, the high school is the place to 
get a broad view of some of the problems of society. Since primitive 
times there has been division of labor, yet in civilized society the study of 
the home should not be a study for women alone. The factory rather 
than the home is calling the girl, and this makes necessary an effort to make 
the keeping of the house a respectable business. The idea that we are not 
to presume that the girl of the high school is to be a housekeeper is false 
We have reached the place where, if the teaching of Domestic Science is 
not successful, the law will require every girl to be taught how to keep 
house. Domestic Science in the high school brings about a rational view 
of life. It makes better students. It gives a deeper meaning to other 
subjects. The home has ceased to be the industrial and social center 
and the school must take account of this fact. 

Miss Mary S. Snow, Supervisor of Household Arts, Chicago Public 
Schools, inspired the teachers by her discussion of the subject. Relating 
Domestic Science to Other Subjects and to Life. She pointed out that 
Domestic Science touches every subject and everybody. The time to 
teach practical sewing, in her opinion, is in the fourth, fifth and sixth 
grades. Very much practice work in cooking should be done in the 
seventh and eighth grades, then in the first year of the high school the 
student has something in mind to theorize about. She cooks again but 
from a different point of view, i. e., to explain results, to gain facts ' The 
science teacher should be very anxious to learn how to make practical 
applications. The Domestic Science teacher should be able to handle the 
sciences, and not say that bacteriology is too difficult to tackle Surely 
these small organisms are not as difficult to manage as the high school 
girl and boy. We can not get along without the sciences— cannot teach 
cleanhne.ss without bacteriology, cannot teach nutrition without physi- 
ology and chemistry, cannot teach the effect of heat and processes of 
cookmg without chemistry and physics Domestic Science is funda- 
mentally chemistry— chemistry of digestion, of nutrition, of food It 
mcludes bacteriology, biology, and physics. The course of study should 
include chemistry for three years and physics the last vear Physiolc-y 
should be taught the first and fourth years. Making of dresses should be 
taught the first year when the individual life is intensive and vanity is 
greatest. In the second and third years the course should be more adapted 
to family life— the care of the house, sewing for the household and work in 

105 



io6 The Journal of Home Ecotiomics [February- 

dietaries. In the fourth year the needs of the orphaned and the sick as 
well as those of lier own family — -the civic life, the great study of economics 
— should be taught. The interests of the girl should be kept expanding 
and broadening from her freshman to her senior year. 

Brief reports of the Denver meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association and of the Western Manual Training and Drawing Association 
which met in St. Louis last May were given. 

The Syllabus of Domestic Science for the High Schools of Illinois 
which has been used by the teachers during the past year was the subject 
of discussion at the afternoon session, particularly along the following lines 
suggested by the executive committee : First, that it be made clear in the 
introduction of the revised syllabus that more than a unit's work in each of 
the three subjects, food, clothing, and the home is planned in order for the 
teacher to have opportunity for selection and adjustment to conditions; 
second, that the topics considered essential in the work of one unit be 
starred, it being understood that choice may be made from the remaining 
topics; third, that the heading of the columns be changed from theory 
and practice to recitation and laboratory; fourth, that the name be 
changed to Syllabus of Domestic Science and Art for the High Schools of 
Illinois; and fifth, that a list of reference books and magazines be added 
to each of the three subjects. 

After thorough discussion, a revision was voted, and the work was put 
into the hands of the new executive committee. The following additions 
were suggested — more hygiet^ study of materials used in home furnish- 
ing, the decorative stitches, ^r'^ing of lace, a little millinery, and more 
about the cost of living and marketing. It was also suggested that the 
sociological and economic side of the home should be made more promi- 
nent. 

The report of the executive committee showed that 58 public high 
schools of Illinois are teaching Domestic Science, a gain of 16 over last 
year; that 43 of these schools are teaching food, 41 clothing and 25 the 
home; and that more than one half of the counties of Illinois are teaching 
Domestic Science or Household Arts to some extent. 

The teaching of these subjects in the high schools of Illinois is en- 
couraged and recognized by the university in granting one unit of en- 
trance credit for Domestic Science. The following definition of one unit's 
work recommended bv the committee was accepted by the section : 
(a) An equivalent of 180 hours of prepared work with at least two recita- 
tion periods a week in foods; (b) an equivalent of 180 hours of prepared 
work with at least one recitation period a week in clothing, or (c) an 
equivalent of 180 hours of prepared work with at least two recitation 
periods a week on the home. Two periods of laboratory work are con- 
sidered equivalent to one period of prei)ared work. Two half units taken 
from (a) and (b), (a) and (c), or (b) and (c) will also be accepted as a unit's 
work. The syllabus is recommended as a basis for a unit of entrance 
credit. The work is to be done by trained teachers with individual 
equipment, as determined by inspection. 



iQio] News from the Field 107 

_ This association was organized at the time of the meet- 

Home Economics • * ^.v, t e^^ i. t- v - a ■ ^- ■ ta 

. . ing 01 the Iowa btate leachers Association in Des 

Moines, November 4-6, and is affiliated with the 
Iowa 

American Association of Home Economics. Notice 

of the organization meeting had been sent to all of the teachers of Home 

Economics in the state, and also to a number of housekeepers who were 

known to be especially interested in the subject. About thirty responded 

to the invitation. 

Before the business meeting, an informal program was given, Mrs. 
Isaac Hillis and Mrs. J. J. Hamilton, club women of Des Moines, discussing 
the question, How Mothers may Co-operate with Teachers of Home 
Economics to make the Work of the Schools Most Effective when Applied 
in the Homes, Mrs. Alice D. Feuling of the Iowa State College of Agri- 
culture and Mechanic Arts speaking on An Ideal Public School Course in 
Home Economics, and Miss Mary L. Townsend of the Iowa State Teachers 
College, discussing the subject of Means and Methods to be Employed in 
Interesting People in Home Economics. At the business meeting, a 
constitution was adopted and the following officers elected for the year: 
President, Mrs. Alice D. Feuling; vice-president. Miss Beulah Long, 
Drake University; secretary-treasurer. Miss Mabel Campbell, Iowa State 
College of Agriculture and Mechanics Arts; additional members of the 
executive conimittee, Mrs. Eleanor Holloway, Des Moines Public Schools 
and Miss Cornelia P. Moran, Waterloo Public Schools; and councilor-at- 
large, Miss Mary L Townsend. 

The annual meeting will be held at the time and place of the meeting of 
the State Teacher's Association, but it is the plan now to have at least one 
other meeting during the year. It is hoped that the new organization may 
be the means of arousing a much deeper interest in the introduction of 
Home Economics into the public schools than has ever been felt in the 
state. 

• c • •^ meeting of the Domestic Science and Arts Section of 

• c\u- ^^^ Manual Training and Arts Association of Ohio, was 
held in the Toledo High School, November 12, with 
about thirty teachers from Columbus, Da\-ton, Cleveland and Toledo in 
attendance. After welcoming the visitors, the chairman, Miss Isla M. 
Campbell, Assistant Director of Manual Training, Toledo, suggested the 
possibility of forming a permanent organization in order to know what 
was being done in different parts of the state. Pending consideration of 
this question Miss Carlotta C. Greer of the Cleveland Technical High School 
spoke on the subject of The Best Educated Girl, and Miss Rachel H. 
Colwell, of Lake Erie College, Painesville, ga\'e a talk on The Use of the 
100-Calorie Portion in Estimating the Total Food Requirement for the 
Day 

Miss McKinley then told a little of the work that is being done in 
Dayton. She said that they were particularly fortunate in having the 
whole session of the morning and afternoon for each class. She sug- 
gested the following pertinent questions : Whether the best results are to 
be obtained from small groups or individual work? How much theory 



io8 The Journal of Home Economics [February- 

should there be in the grades and how much in the high school? How 
long should be the course in the high school ? Should there be one course 
for students who stop at the end of the grades and one for those who 
expect to go on through the high school? Should one try to give more 
than one recipe in a lesson ? Should all the pupils be doing the same one? 
Is it wise to put on the slip that the students take home more recipes than 
those actually done in the class? 

Miss Campbell emphasized the necessity of correlation of the work with 
other departments. She said that the community life was lost when the 
pupil does each thing for herself. In the Toledo Manual Training High 
Schools, the boys, in carpenter work, made a bed and the girls the bed- 
clothes. She also brought out the point of the importance of the relation 
of the pupil's work to his outside life. 

Much interest was aroused by these papers and it was felt that the time 
was too short for their proper discussion. A permanent organization of a 
Domestic Art and Science Section was formed with Miss Greer as chair- 
man, and Miss Thompson, of the Dayton Schools, a- secretary and treas- 
urer. The chair was given power to appoint an executive committee, 
which is to prepare the programs and attend to the business of the 
organization. It was voted to meet next fall at Dayton, as the main 
organization — the Manual Training and Arts Association of Ohio — meets 
there at that time. It was also decided that as many of the section as 
possible should plan to meet in Cleveland, February 11, at the time of the 
meeting of the Northeastern Ohio Teachers' Association. The desire was 
expressed to judge as to what was being done in the work in the state by 
the exhibits to be shown at that meeting. 

Miss Mamie E. Gearing of Houston, Texas, writes: 
Domestic ^cience ..-y^^ ^^^ doing so much throughout the state in our line 
"Work in Texas. ^^ .^.^^.^ -^ -^ ^^^^ ^^ ^^y^ which is the most important. 
Domestic Science and Arts have been placed in many of the grade schools 
throughout Texas during the last few years. This past year the state 
has established the work in all of the state normals, and we have strong 
hopes of seeing it in the University before many years. 

"In Houston, the work has grown in the past three years from a two 
years' cooking course in the high school, for which no credit was given, to 
ten fully equipjied centers in the white grammar schools, and two in the 
negro schools. Every fourth and fifth grade in the city has sewing taught, 
and the sixth and seventh grades cooking, (we have no eighth grades.) 
There is a four 3'^ears' diploma course in Domestic Science and Arts, in the 
high school. The work is compulsory in the grade schools, and in the first 
year of the high school. 

Our County Medical Association has recently organized a milk com- 
mission for the purpose of investigating the local milk supply, and having 
stricter and better enforced municipal laws in regard to it. Our depart- 
ment has been asked to cooperate in this movement and has been given 
representation on the board." 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Misery and Its Causes. E. T. Devine. Xew York; The Macmillan 
Company, pp. 274. $1.25. 

This volume is the fourth in the American Social Progress Series which 
presents the substance of lectures delivered annually before the New York 
School of Philanthropy. The previous volumes have been: The New 
Basis of Civilization, by Professor S. N. Patten of the University of Penn- 
sylvania; Standards of Public Morality, by Arthur Twining Hadley, 
president of Yale University; and Legislation and Administration for 
Social Welfare, by Professor Jeremiah W. Jenks of Cornell University. 
Dr. Devine's volume is a discussion of remedial poverty, and his conclusions 
are based on his experiences as Secretary of the Charity Organization 
Society of New York. These generalizations are supported by a 
wealth of facts which are presented in detail. The chapters are: 
Poverty and Maladjustment; Out of Health; Out of Work; Out of 
Friends; the Adverse Conditions in Dependent Famihes; and The 
Justice and Prosperity of the Future. The concluding chapter is a strik- 
ing presentation of a practical Utopia for which all may work and in 
which the Home Economics student and teacher may feel he has a hand. 
The characteristics of this better time will be the provision for each indi- 
vidual of a sound, physical heredity; a protected childhood; a prolonged 
working period of both men and women ; freedom from preventable disease ; 
freedom from professional crime; a general system of insurance against 
contingencies of death, old age, accident, sickness, and unemployment; 
a system of elementary education adapted to the present day needs; a 
liberal relief system and a standard of living high enough to insure full 
nourishment, reasonable recreation, shelter and other elementary neces- 
sities. It is in such a program that Home Economics must largely express 
itself. Students of Home Economics will also find the chapter which 
discusses the adverse conditions which most commonly make families 
dependent, useful in making clear the exact nature of the problems with 
which they have to deal. — B. R. Andrews. 

The Spirit of Youth and the City Streets. Jane Addams. New York: 
The Macmillan Company, pp.162. $1.25. 

In this work Miss Addams presents some of her papers dealing with 
city conditions and the remedial measures necessary to secure better 
living, especially for the young people. 

The chapters are: Youth in the City; The Wrecked Foundations of 
Domesticity (emphasizing the changes which have come in family relations 
in the city); The Quest of Adventure; The House of Dreams (a study of 
youth in relation to the theater); Youth in Industry; The Thrist for 
Righteousness (a statement of the need of readjustment in religious 
enterprises). 

The book as a whole is an interpretation, an explanation of the perver- 
sions and unhappiness brought into the life of youth by the reaction of 
world-old human nature upon a new environment, the modem man- 
made industrial and commerical center. It will contribute richly toward 

109 



no The Journal of Home Economics [February 

an intelligent point of view among Honie Econoniics workers in our cities. 
— B. R. A. 

The Fireless Cook Book. Margaret J. Mitchell. New York: Double- 
day, Page & Co., 1909, pp. xii-l-315, figs. 18. $1.25. 

The fireless cooker and the concrete house which may be swept with a 
hose are destined to bring a great change in the established routine of 
living. This volume is a forcible exploitation of the merits of the fireless 
cooker. The economy of fuel, the reduction of heat in the kitchen, the 
saving in wear and tear on utensils, and the bearing of fireless cookery on 
the servant problem are all well brought forward. 

As a cook-book it is not especially valuable, the recipes being mainly 
adaptations of the old stand-bys to the new appliance. More emphasis 
might have been laid upon the use of ordinary recipes with a reduced propor- 
tion of water since the fireless case affords no opportunities for evaporation. 

Though many processes in cooking may be carried on in the fireless 
cooker and insulated oven it is still an open question whether its use in 
some cases is true economy of energy. The advantage of this plan of 
continuing heat for the cooking of tough meats, however, is rarely dis- 
puted, certainly not by any one who has tried it fairly. 

Miss Mitchell gives explicit directions for the manufacture of cookers 
suited to one's own needs. One chapter is devoted to the use of the in- 
sulated oven, the later form of the fireless cooker, where stone slabs, iron 
plates or fire brick are heated and placed in the case under and over the 
receptacles containing the food. Thus sufficient heat is secured to brown 
meats and even to bake bread, pies and cakes. 

The teacher of Domestic Science will find in the twenty page appendix 
suggestive material for experiments with utensils aside from their relation 
to the fireless cooker. 

The faults in the book lie mainly in little inaccuracies in the recipes. 
An excess of soda is always to be deplored and while a little is desirable 
one tea.spoonful to one cup of dry beans is excessive, e.specially when this 
is used not for a brief j)ar-boiling, but is left through the eight hours in the 
fireless. Moreover in the table of proportions the amount of .soda given 
for use with sour milk, molasses, etc., is more than necessary.- — A. B. 

Antique Chinese Rugs. N'ew York. The Tiffany Studies, 1908, pp. 96, 

pis. 3.3- 

The historic periods in Chinese art, the materials used, the methods of 

weaving Chinese rugs, colors employed, designs found in such rugs, and 

the classification of rugs according to design, and according to color, are 

the principal topics discussed. Many rugs mcluding those shown in the 

plates are described. The volume as a whole constitutes an important anci 

valuable compendium of infonnation on this subject. The illustrative 

material is taken from the Tiffany Studios' collection of antique Chinese 

rugs. 

In general, Chinese rugs are made of wool or silk though metal threads 
are sometimes introduced. Chinese rug knots are tied exactly as the 
Persian or Sinneh knots, differing in appearance simply because of the 
looser web. 

"At whatever actual time the Chinese rugs were made which now exist 
in collections and museums, the designs used bv their makers may be 



1 9 1 °] Books and Literature 1 1 1 

readily classed as belonging to one or another of five great styles that have 
made Chinese art what it is. 

"The Chinese observe the ordinary methods employed all through the 
Orient in the weaving of pile carpets, the difference in the finished product 
being due to slight technical variations that serve as earmarks for identifi- 
cations. These may be noted in the warp and woof threads, and in the 
way the knots, the ends of which make the pile, are tied. Even without 
actual historical records of how and when Chinese fabrics were made, it is 
quite possible to divide existing specimens in such a way as to determine 
the relation of one fabric to another; the changes from domestic to factory 
weaving and preparation of materials being quite apparent to the analyst. 

"The Chinese rugs which are available for examination and study today, 
about which expert students have a right to speculate, and in regard to 
which trained opinion is of great value, are made with a pile of either fine 
or coarse wool, hair, or silk, seldom if ever of either cotton or jute. Some- 
times the wool is so coarse that it has the appearance of jute, and rugs are 
often classified as jute that are in reality of coarse hair or wool. 

"Chinese rugs en masse have a vastly difl^erent appearance from a 
corresponding number of Persian, Indian or Turkish fabrics. 

"The colors employed by the Chinese differ from those used by Persian 
rug weavers, in that the Chinese palette is the smaller. Where the 
Persians would introduce a dozen tones, the Chinese content themselves 
with four or five. We find in rugs of one class two shades of yellow, two 
shades of blue and cream color; in another two shades of blue, cream color 
and apricot red; in another two shades of yellow, two shades of cream and 
apricot; and in another two shades of blue, cream, brown and two shades 
of yellow. A Persian rug classing with these would have yellow, two 
shades of blue, cream, several shades of green, fire color, turquoise blue 
and many shades of red. In Chinese rugs, however important, one fails to 
find many colors. The rugs of Chinese-Turkestan and of the Samarcand 
district lean toward Indian and Persian methods of introducing colors, 
but strictly Chinese rugs only show four or five tones." 

The Educational Value of Photography in Public Schools, Fred D. 
Maisch. Photo Times, 41 (1909), No. 10, pp. 378-382. 

The advantage of using photographs in many lines of college and 
university study has been appreciated for some time. This article points 
out their value for illustrative purposes in the common schools. Special 
attiintion is called to the work of the Philadelphia Commercial Museum in 
sending out to the schools of Pennsylvania, at state expense, photographs 
of its numerous collections of commercial raw and manufactured materials. 
Fully 200,000 of these photographs are now being used in the schools of 
the state. The facts of geography, commerce, manufactures, and the 
national life of various countries can be brought home to the understanding 
and appreciation of children through actual photographs as they can not 
by any other form of representation. "With such photographs before 
them our school children will grow up with a better understanding of the 
world at large, with a firmer and wider grasp of events, and be better fitted 
to enter the business world which, in some form or other, is the ultimate 
goal of everyone." 



112 The Journal of Home Economics [February- 

Domestic Art Review, New York. The November issue of the Domestic 
Art Review, published by a student organization of Teachers College, 
contains articles on woman's dress from the standpoint of suitability, 
economy, art and hygiene. 

A comprehensive view of the scope of the work of the new School of 
Household Arts is given in the article written by Dr. Andrews, secretary of 
the school. 

Accounts of the work being done in the Ohio State University, in the 
Manhattan Trade School, in the Kalamazoo Manual Training School and in 
the North Bennet Street Industrial School in Boston are interesting and 
suggestive to Domestic Art teachers. 

The annual competition for the Hart Schaffner and Marx essay prize in 
Economics for 1909 has been awarded to Frank H. StreightoflE, who pre- 
sented a paper on The Standard of Living or Budgets of American 
Workingmen's Families. 

Mrs. Kirk's Handy Expense Card for Housekeepers. Mrs. Alice 
Gitchell Kirk. Cleveland, Ohio. Price 50c. 

This is a system for keeping household expenses on cards. It includes 
fifty weekly cards, twelve monthly cards, one yearly card, and a card of 
directions. It itemizes expenses with the following classification: Gro- 
ceries, Meat and Provisions, Milk and Ice, Fuel and Light, Service, 
Utensils, Laundry, Miscellaneous, Personal, — B. R. A. 

The Chautauqua Genealogy. A continuous personal history and 
family record. The Educational Specialty Co., Detroit, Mich. 

This is a family record book which is bound in a convenient form. It 
would be of interest and value to any person desiring to work out the 
record of his ancestry. The book includes radial ch-arts and family charts, 
systematically arranged for showing family relationship. There are also 
blank pages for individual biographies, clippings, sketches, etc., and an 
index to be filled in as the entries proceed. With the record book goes a 
handbook of directions. — B. R. A. 



LIST OF MEMBERS AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS 
ASSOCIATION. JANUARY 1. 1910. 

foUowhS^e^h" nami'* °TJ^.^"fnfr' '-^^ Professional position of each member is indicated 
may need iSana^ti^n: ^^' ^°"°"'"^ abbreviations used in indicating positions 



Adm. — Administration. 

Agr. — Agricultural. 

Coll.— College, 

Com. — Committee. 

D. A. — Domestic Art. 

D. S. — Domestic Science. 

Ed. — Education. 

El. Sch. — Elementary Schools. 

H. ^Household. 

H. Sch.— High School. 

Ind. — Industrial. 

Inst. — Institution. 



Lab. — Laboratory. 

Lib. — Librarian. 

Lect. — Lecture. 

Man. Tr. — Manual Training. 

Nor. Sch. — Normal School. 

Pub. Sch.— Public School. 

Publ.— Publisher. 

San. — Sanitary. 

Seed. — Secondary. 

Supv. — -Supervisor. 

T. — Teacher or Instructor. 

Tech. — Technology. 



lib?arie"'LTftutfo'ns\'fo ^''o'^ t^' "'^"'"^ "'* ^^ the Journal and therefore includes 
uoraries institutions, etc. I<or the same reason it was ''ound impracticable to makp th^ 
hst strictly alphabetical, but is believed all names will be found under thT appro 
pnate imtial letter. Corrections will be heartily appreciated. appro- 

LIFE MEMBERS. 
Mr. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, N. Y. 
Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, N. Y. 
Miss Grace H. Dodge, 262 Madison Avenue, New York City. 

ANNUAL MEMBERS. 

Abbott, L. R., Man. tr., 117 Barclay St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 

Abel, Mrs. John J., Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

Abell, Miss Adelaide, 58 Whitmarsh St., Providence, R. L 

Acheson, Miss Rebecca P., 404 Knoblock St., Stillwater, Oklahoma 

Adams, Amanda McCormick, D. S. Central High School, Detroit, Mich. 

Adams, Ella C, 216 Douglas Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 

Adams, Helen, Student, m Hart St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Adams, Henrietta, Sup. D. S. & D. A., 613 S. 5th St., Springfield, 111. 

Adams, Miss Josephine, D. S.. 265 86th St., Bay Ridge. Brooklyn 

Adsit, Marie C, Voorheesville, N. Y. 

Alden, Miss Caroline, Supr. D. S., El. Sch., 797 Ave. C, Bayonne, X. J. 

Allen, Alice M., D. S., 1348 Pacific St., Brooklyn, Mass. 

Allen, Annie E., 263 Harvard St., Cambridge, Mass. 

Allen, Bessie May, D. S., Ontario Ladies College, Whitby, Ontario 

Allen, Charies R., Dir. Ind. H. S., New Bedford, Mass. 

Alline, Anna L., Inspector of Nurses' Tr. Schools, State Education Dept 

Capitol, Albany, N. Y. 
Allingham, Miss Grace, D. S., State Normal School, Peru, Nebraska 
Allison, Inga M. K., T. Coll., Colorado Agricultural Col., Fort Collins Col 
Allen, Miss Bemice, Head H. Tech., Tech. High School, Springfield Mass 
Ames, Miss Sarah C, D. S., 901 Hancock St., Wollaston, Mass. 
Anderson, (Miss) Annie O., D. S. & A., El. Sch., 1229 Downing St. Denver 

Colo. 



113 



114 The Journal of Home Economics [February- 

Andrews, Benjamin R., Secretary Teachers Coll., 009 W. i3Sth St., New 

York City. 
Ansley, Miss E., Box 118, Elgin, 111. 

Aray, Mrs. Leonora E., D. S., Alcorn A. & M. College, Alcorn, Miss. 
Arbus, Miss Caroline, Supr. Sewing, El. Sch., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., 

New York City. 
Armstrong, Mrs. Herbert, 185 Seybum Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
Armstrong, Lillian M., D. S., Drexel Institute, Phila., Pa. 
Arnold, Miss Mary S., McKinley School, Spokane, Wash. 
Arnold, Sarah Louise, Dean, Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 
Arundel Club, 1000 N. Charles St., Baltimore, Md. 
Atwood, Alice P., Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md. 
Atwater, Helen W., Nutrition Investigator Dept. Agr., Middletown, Conn. 
Atwater, Mrs. Ruth, Pratt Inst., Ryerson St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Augur, Miss Edna, 549 West 123d St., N. Y. City. 
Austin, Ida McL., D. S., i West 87 St., New York City. 
Austin, Mrs. Idah R., Mang. Housekeeper, Sage College, Ithaca. N. Y. 
Axtell, Sarah B., D. S., 152 Chadwick Ave., Newark, N. J. 
Aylward, Emma B., Supt. Nurses' Home, 430 Ashland Blvd., Chicago, 111. 

Bacon, Mrs. Mary A. C, Box 20, Avon, Mass. 

Bacon, Miss Margaret J., 53 Rawley St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Bachelder, Miss Grace D., 9 St. James Ave., Boston, Mass. 

Baer, Miss Edith, H. Econ., Drexel Inst., Phila., Pa. 

Baker, Iva E., 303 Sylvan St., Bellingham, Wash. 

Balch, Emily G., Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 

Baldt, Miss Laura I., D. A., 501 West 123d St., New York City. 

Bales, Alba, D. S., Pocatello, Idaho. 

Balderston, Miss L. Ray, Instr., H. A., 511 West i22d St., N. Y. City. 

Balch, Emil)' G., Ass't Prof. Econ. and Sociology, Wellesley, Mass. 

Baldwin, W. A., Prin. Normal Sch., Hyannis, Mass. 

Baldwin, Miss Bertha, Care of Met. Hosp., Blackwell's Island, N. Y. 

Barlow, Mrs. Jennie C, Inst. Visitor for H. S. Dept., 305 E. John St., 

Champaign, 111. 
Bancroft, Mrs. W. F., 261 1 Piedmont Ave., Berkley, Cal. 
Bancroft, W. F., 261 1 Piedmont Ave., BerkW, Cal. 
Barber, Miss Carrie B., Northfaeld Seminary, E. Northfield, Mass. 
Barclay, Josephine, D. S., H. S., 248 S. Olive St., Los Angelos, Cal. 
Barclay, Mrs. DeLancey H., Supt. Margaret Bement Home, 14 East 

Franklin St., Baltimore, Md. 
Barnard, Charles, Dir. H. Exp. Station, Darien, Conn. 
Barnard, Miss Marie E., D. S., H. Sch., Box 193, E. Waterloo, Iowa. 
Bamett, Miss Nellie M., Bellingham, Wash. 

Barnicle, Grace V., Supt. D. A., Pub. Sch., 6 Willow PI.. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Bamum, Mrs. Nathaniel C, Pittsford, Monroe County, New York. 
Barrows, Anna, D. S., Coll., Teachers College, New York City. 
Barrows, Mary, Pub., Huntington Chambers, Boston, Mass. 
Bartholow, Miss S. C, D. S.,E1. Sch., 1236 Harvard St., Washington, D.C. 



1 9 1 o] List of Members Home Economics A ssociatiofi i j 5 

Bartlett, Ellen M., Supr., D. S., 1233 St. Charles St.. Alameda, Cal. 

Bartlett, Mrs. Jessie U., 624 Swan St., Terre Haute, Ind. 

Bartlett. Katherine R., Prin. D. S., 17 Orange St.. St. John, New Bruns- 
wick, Canada. 

Basil, Sister Loretta, Convent of St. Elizabeth, Convent Station, N. J. 

Bates, Victoria W.. The Mount Royal, Baltimore, Md. 

Bates. Elizabeth C. D. S., 66t East 170 St., New York City. 

Bates, Sarah L., 4 Toledo Ave., Elmhurst, L. I. 

Baxter. Miss Orissa M., 1544 Broad St., Hartford, Conn. 

Beach. Miss Rebecca D., 78 Wall St., New Haven, Conn. 

Beard, Mrs. Bella, Mgr. Housekeeper, Knoxville, 111. 

Beal, Fannie E.. D. S. & D. A.. 58 S. Winter St.. Adrian, Mich. 

Beck, Marie L., D. S., 32 Hanover Ave., Elmhurst, L. I. 

Beck, Miss Louise P., H. & A., 2022 Seminary Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Becker, Irene, D. S., 131 St. James PI., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Becker, Bertha M., 254 West 98th St., New York City. 

Becker, Miss Antonetta, Supt. D. A., Kans. Agr. Coll., Manhattan, Kansas. 

Beecher, Hadassah C, Albert Lea College, Albert Lea, Minn. 
Bell, Miss Martha T., Ass't D. S., Coll., 20 E. Oak St., Denton, Texas. 
Benedict, Mrs. Francis G., 1905 Bellevue Street, Boston, Mass. 
Benedict, Miss May D., Sup't Cooking, Mechanics Inst., Rochester, N.'Y. 
Benson, Miss C. C, Ass't Prof. Phys. Chem., University of Toronto. 

Toronto. Canada. 
Benton, Miss Eliza. D. S., 510 West 124th St., New York City. 
Bennis, Miss Bessie, H, Economics. State College, Penn. 
Bergtold, Cora L., D. S. & D. H.. i t 15 Ferry Ave.. Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
Berwin. Miss Harriet. D. S., Tech. Sch., State Prep. School, Boulder, Colo. 
Berry, Miss Josephine T., Dir. D. S., Teachers College, New York City. 
Bevier, Isabel, Head of Univ. Dept., H. Econ., Urbana, 111. 
Bigelow, Miss Gertrude, T. Chem. Coll., Natick, Mass. 
Birdseye, Miriam. D. S.. Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 
Birdsej'e, Miss Annie, North Carbon, Kanawha Co., W. Va. 
Birkner, Susanne, D. S., El. Sch., 201 Ryerson St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Bishop, E. C, State Supt. Education, Lincoln, Nebraska. 
Bishop, Lana, D. A., Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio. 
Bissell, Frances, Hall Manager, Barnard College, New York City. 
Blackmar, Mrs. L. B., 2002 Lafayette Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
Blackman, Edith, Dir. D. S., Y." W. C. A.. 128 West Franklin St., Balti- 
more, Md. 
Blackman, Miss E. M., 6054 Monroe Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Blair, Mrs. Margaret J., 1416 Raymond Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
Blair, Miss Alice E.. 208 Illinois Ave., Peoria, 111. 
Blenkhorn. Cora, Kings County. Canning. Nova Scotia. 
Blood. Miss Alice F.. 37 Howe St.. New Haven. Conn. 
Blunt, Miss Katherine, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 
Boggs, Lucinda Peari, 811 West Illinois St., Urbana, 111. 
Bosworth, Miss Elizabeth T., D. S., Teh. Sch., 35 Spring St., Newport, 

R. I. 



ii6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Boulden, Harriet M., Supt. H. Econ., 76 Byron St., Huntington, Ind. 

Bousquet, S. Marie, Pella, Iowa. 

Bouton, Rosa, Prof. H. Econ., University Farm, Lincoln, Neb. 

Bower, Sarah E.. D. S., El. Sch., North Adams, Mass. 

Boyer, Harriet A., 1831 Peters Ave., New Orleans, La. 

Bolton, Mary F., H. Econ., 3217 Diamond St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Bolz. Hulda, 1509 Bremen Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 

Boughton, Alice C, Supt. Sch. Gardens, 224 Buckingham Place, West 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

Boyer, Miss Harriet A., Newcomb College, New Orleans, La. 

Braley, Jessie N., 619 County St., New Bedford, Mass. 

Bradley Polytechnic Institute, Peoria, 111. 

Brackett, Jeffrey R., Dir. Sch. for Solid Workers, 41 Marlboro St., Boston, 
Mass. 

Bradford, Mrs. Sarah Polk, Woodstock, Nashville, Tenn. 

Bradt, Miss Cecelia K., Carnegie Technical School, Pittsburgh, Penn. 

Bradley, Miss Alice, T. Cooking, 30 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 

Bray, Miss Evelyn. Matron, Insane Asylum, London, Ont., Canada. 

Brayton, Miss Irma, D. S., Mountain School, Sheridan, Wy. 

Breckinridge, S. P., Inst. H. Adm., University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 

Briscoe, Mrs. Charles H., Thompsonville, Conn. 

Brockett, Miss Mym, Supt. Nursery, 225 Ewing St., Chicago, 111. 

Brockman, May E., D. S., N. Y. C, 427 East 135 St., New York City. 

Bronson, Miss Lillian L., D. S., H. Sch., Hotel Glencoe, Cincinnati, O. 

Broenniman, Mrs. Eleanor R., Franklin, Mass. 

Brooks, Mrs. J. H., St. Johnsbury, Vt. 

Brooks, Anna, 1047 Lexington Ave., New York City. 

Brooke, Miss F. D., Head D. S. Dept., Care Dr. T. V. Brooke, Sutherlin, Va. 

Brookings, Mrs. Walter D., Linde Vesta Ave., Redlands, Cal. 

Brown, Miss Helen, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 

Brown, Miss Kate Louise, D. S., H. S., 901 West State St., Jacksonville, 
Illinois. 

Brown, Miss Florence M., T. D. S., Montana Agr. Coll., Bozeman, Mont. 

Buchholz. Laura M., D. S., H. S., 6818 St. Lawrence Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Buckingham, Eliza, D. S., 93 Tyler St., Boston, Mass. 

Buckly, Mi.ss Margaret, Dir. D S., The Rushton, South Bend, Ind. 

Bunce, Miss Alice J., T. Cooking, Ind. Sch., i 7 Rickman St., Salem, Mass. 

Burbank, Annie F., Head H. S., Northfield Seminary, E. Northfield, Mass. 

Burita, Anna M., D. S., H. S., 114 Crighton Ave., Elgin, 111. 

Burkhart, Stella, D. S., 4819 East 6th St., Kansas City, Mo. 

Burr, Edith E.. D. S., H. S., 2028 Second Ave., Spokane, Wash. 

Burton. Alice, 900 Clark St., Charles City. la. 

Bumite, Mi.ss Mary A., Teachers College, -New York City. 

Burchult, Mrs. E. F., 2120 Callow Ave., Baltimore, Md. 

Button, MissG. L.. Ass't Supt. Charities, 47 N. Washington Ave., Colum- 
bus. Ohio. 

Butler. Miss Myra H., D. S. & D. A.. State Normal School, Cheney. Wash. 

Byington, Mrs. W. W., Pres. Guild, Albany. N. Y. 

Bymhold, Margaret, 198 Greene Ave., Brooklyn. N. Y. 



1910] List of Members Home Econofnics Association 1 17 

Caldwell, Mrs. Wm. H., Inst. Directress, 5 Churchlea Place, Rochester, 

N. Y. 
Campbell, Matilda G., Supt. D. S. & D. A., Public School, iqog Parkwood 

Ave., Toledo, Ohio. 
Campbell, Miss Mabel, T. Cooking, 344 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Campbell, Isla M., T. Cooking, Sterling School, Cleveland, Ohio. 
Campbelle, Nelle, D. S., 518 Church St., Evanston, 111. 
Campbell, Clara, Supr. D. S. & D. A., 2270 Jefferson Ave., Norwood, Ohio. 
Campbell, Mrs. Ellen A. P., Housekeeper, Cayuga Co., Aurora, N. Y. 
Campbell, Miss Mabel, D. Econ., Iowa State Coll., Ames, Iowa. 
Canble, Miss L. A., Head H. A. Dept., Carnegie Tech. Sch., Pittsburg, Pa. 
Caring, Elsie B., T. Cooking, 26 Hubbell Park, Rochester, N. Y. 
Carey, Arthur A., Pres., Free Reading Room, Waltham, Mass. 
Carpenter, Miss Winifred, D. S., El. Sch., 1347 Harvard St., Washington 

D. C. 
Carpenter, Mary L., D. S., State Nor. Sch., Fitchburg, Mass. 
Carpenter, Mrs. George O., ra Portland Place, St. Louis, Mo. 
Carothere, Jean Mrs., D. S., 1154 49th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Carroll, Beatrice, D. S. & D. A., 52 West Bethel St., Hagerstown. Md. 
Carnegie Technical School, Schenley Park, Pittsburg, Pa 
Carmen, Mrs. E. G., R. D. 2, Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Case, Miss Bertha, T. Cooking, H. S., 510 Ravine Ave., Peoria, 111. 
Casey, Miss Josephine G., Dir. D. A., 3001 De Groff Way, Kansas City, 

Mo. 
Cate, Mrs. Margaret W., Dir. D. A., 217 S. St., N. W. Washington, D. C. 
Cate, George H., Sec. Health Ed. League, 113 Devonshire St., Boston, 

Mass. 
Caufield, Miss Mars- L., D. S., So. nth St., Newark, N. J. 
Chase, Miss Annette F., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Chase, Miss Sarah A., South B\"iield, Mass. 
Chapin, Florence E., 215 Jefferson St., Hartford, Conn. 
Chandler, Emma A., D. Econ., Murray State Sch. Agr., Tishomingo, Okla. 
Chandler, Mabel Weston, T. Cooking, 35 Eighth St., New Bedford, Mass. 
Champion, Clara W., D. S., Clinton, X. Y. 
Chambers, Mary Davoren, Head Dept. Elem. & H. Ecn., Rockford College, 

Rockford, 111. 
Chamberlain, Nina L., D. S., 500 West 144 St., New York City. 
Chapin, Mrs. Louise P., H. Econ., Mechanics Institute, Rochester, N. Y. 
Chapman, Mrs. E. W., Supr, D. A., Ravenna, Ohio, care of J. H. Willaird. 
Charlton, Edith G., Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa.; 
Chemosky, Miss Julia, 4949 Indiana Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Child, Jessie D., D. S., loi East 176 St., New York City. 
Chislett, Lucile, H. S., 6525 Greenwood Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Chown, Miss Alice A., 79 L. Alfred St., Kingston, Ont. 
Chrisman, M. Bertha, D. S., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Christian, Miss Katherine M., D. S., Lexington, Ky. 
Churchman, Sarah, T. Cooking, 4418 Osage Ave., West Philadelphia, Pa. 



ii8 The J ournal\of Home Economics [February 

Church, Miss Sara B., Box 25, Oswego, Kan. 

Clare, Teresa A., D. S., 5 West i22d St., New York City. 

Clark, Anna, D. S., 501 Lockwood St., Astoria, L. I. 

Clark, Miss Matie Pearl, D. S., 923 Apgar St., Oakland, Cal. 

Clark, Mildred W., Student, 20 Beech St., North Cambridge, Mass. 

Clark, Miss Dorothy P., Dietition, The Sanitarium, CHfton Springs, N. Y. 

Clayton, Mrs. Trueman H., AUoway, New Jersey. 

Clem, Isabelle G., D. S., 153 Lefferts Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Coad, Miss Kate M., D. A., State Agr. College, East Lansing, Mich. 

Corkran, Mrs. B. F., 200 Goodward Road, Roland Park, Md. 

Coffin, Miss Margaret, Dir. D. S., 711 So. 30th St., Omaha, Neb. 

Cohen, Sophie, D. S., 156 West 130 St., New York City. 

Cohen, Amelia, D. S., 2210 Aqueduct Ave. E., New York City, Bronx. 

Coleman, Mary E., Rushville, Ind. 

Coleman, Laura L., D. S., H. S., 505 Washington Ave., Janesville, Wis. 

Colbum, Mrs. Bernham S., 215 Burns Ave., Detroit, Mich. 

Colbum, Cora C, 30 Groveland St., Oberlin, Ohio. 

Colgrove, Miss Elizabeth, T. Cooking, El. Sch., 11 Wetmore Ave., Morris- 
town, N. J. 

Colwell, Rachel H., Head H. S., Lake Erie College, Painesville, Ohio. 

Colquhoun, A. H. U., Deputy Minister of Education, Ontario, Canada. 

CoUmer, Mrs. Charles, 513 Northampton St., Easton, Pa. 

Comstock, Miss Laura, D. S., 199 West Ave., Lockport, N. Y. 

Conley, Emma, Head Dpt. Econ., Stout Institute, Menomonie, Wis. 

Conger, Miss Margaret L., 196 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Connor, Miss Henrietta, Dir. D. A., 39 State St., Chicago, 111. 

Conklin, Jean H., 108 Main St., Saranac Lake, N. Y. 

Converse, Miss Mary, 2170 E. 79th St., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Conant, Gertrude E., Milwaukee-Downer College, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Condy, Elizabeth, D. S., 11 50 North Capitol St., Washington, D. C. 

Condit, EHzabeth C, Supr. D. S., Catonsville, Mary-land. 

Coolidge, Miss E. W., Sec. Social Union, 81 Marlboro St., Boston, Mass. 

Cooper, Blanche, D. S., 127 E. 3d North, Logan, Utah. 

Cooper, Lenna F.. Dietitian, Battle Creek Sanitarium, Battle Creek 
Mich. 

Cook, F. L., Pres. Nor. Sch., Spearfish, S. Dakota. 

Cook, Miss Lilian I., D. S., 902 Bergen Ave., Jersey City, N. J. 

Cooke, Miss Amelia A., D. S., 187 Jefferson St., Hartford, Conn. 

Cooley, Anna M., Teachers College, New York City. 

Corcoran, Anna T., Inst. D. S., 781 Cedar St., St. Paul, Minn. 

Corey, Mrs. J. W., 981 Main St., Spencer, Iowa. 

Corbett, Miss Florence R., Dept. Public Charities, Foot East 26th St., 
New York City. 

Cottrell, Miss Louisa, D. S., 4030 Lowell Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Coupland, Sara D., D. S., 121 Park Place, Oak Park, 111. 

Cowan, Elizabeth L., Dietitian, Royal Victoria Hospital, Montreal, 
Canada. 

Cox. Miss Marion, Dir. Y. M. C. A. Home, 31 1 West 9th St., Canton, Ohio. 



iQio] List of Members Home Economics Association 119 

Coyne, Miss May, 100 N. Broadway, Yonkers, N. Y. 

Craig, Agnes Houston, Dir. D. A., College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Crane, Emma H., 478 William St., E. Orange, X. J. 

Crane, Mrs. W. Murra^^ 191 5 Mass. Ave., Washington, D. C. 

Crabb, Miss Mary, College Industrial Arts, Leonard, Texas. 

Crombie, Estelle C, D. S., 127 Prospect Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Crooks. Miss Nellie, D. A., Donner College, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Crosby, Mrs. Wm. Howard, 1042 Main St., Racine, Wis. 

Cross, Miss E. W., D. S., Seed. Sch., 1804 Wyoming Ave., Washington, 

D.C. 
Crowder, Jennie M., D. S., 6143 Gambleton PI., St. Louis, Mo. 
Croyle, Mrs. A. H., 823 N. 15th St., Fort Smith, Ark. 
Crozier, Miss Susan L., D. S.. L. F. O. A., Lynchburg, Va. 
Crump, Miss Edna, D. S., Y. W. C. A., Pittsford, N. Y. 
Crummett, Miss Grace M., D. S., Natl. Park Seminary, Forest Glen, Md. 
Cunningham, Mrs. Frederic, 135 Iv>- St., Brookline, Mass. 
Cushing, Walter Howard, So. Framingham, Mass. 
Cushing, Miss Florence, 8 Walnut St., Boston, Mass. 
Cutler. Mrs. Anna R., D. S.. 140 W. 130th St.. New York City. 

Dabney, Mrs. Ellen P., D. S., 4222 Burke Ave., Seattle, Wash. 

Daggett, Florence J., 1017 Sylvanie Street, St. Joseph, Indiana. 

Daley, Miss Agnes, D. S., 259 Lafa^^ette St., New York City. 

Dam, Frederick A., Mgr. Hotel, 958 Eighth Ave., cor 57 St., New York City. 

Dana, Miss Marion G., Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago, 111. 

Dana, John Cotton, Lib., The Free Public Library, Newark, N. J. 

Daniels, Miss Ada E., Supr. Cooking, 114 Wooster St., Hartford, Conn. 

Daniels, Miss Amy, H. S., 36 Trumbull St., New Haven, Conn. 

Darrow, Elizabeth S., Supt. Sewing, 116 East Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 

Davis, Miss Sara E., D. S., 4202 Girard Ave., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Davidson, Flora H., Mana'g Housekeeper, The Baldwin School, Bryn 

Mawr, Pa. 
Davidson, Miss Margaret, Dir. D. A., Tech. High School, Toronto, Ont. 
Day, Miss Helen M., Asst. H. Econ., Bradley Polytech. Inst., Peoria, 111. 
Day, Edna D., 906 Conley Ave., Univ. Missouri, Columbia, Mo. 
Dean, Nellie, D. S., 221 West 141 St., New York City. 
Dean, Arthur D., Division of Trade Schools, Albany, N. Y. 
Deacon, Gertrude Newbold, D. S., 309 Garden St., Mount Holly ,lNew Jersey, 
de Cerkex, Miss Florence E., Student, t,^ Saybrook Place, Newark, N. J. 
de Forest, Miss Constance, T. Cooking, 262 Gates Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Deforest, Mary, 262 Gates Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
DeGore, Henrietta, D. S., 271 Clinton Ave., Newark, N. J. 
DeLaporte, Marie A., D. A., H. Sch., 90 Gloucester St., Toronto, Canada. 
Denny, Miss Grace G., D. S., Coll., 417 W. 120th St., New York City. 
Denton, Minna C, Inst. San., Lewis Institute, Chicago, III. 
Dept. of Domestic Science, Agricultural College of Utah, Logan, Utah. 
Dept. of Interior, Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. 
DeVinne, Miss Augusta C. T. Sewing, 188 Hart St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 



1 20 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Devlin, Mary E., 2460 Broadway St., San Francisco, Cal. 

Dibble, Mrs. Gertrude, Sec. D. Econ., 219 West 80th St., New York City. 

Dick, Miss Rhoda E., Supr. D. S., 218 S. 5th St., Grand Rapids, Wis. 

Dickinson, Mrs. Robert L., 168 Clinton St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Dickey, Alta V., D. A., 229 Walnut St., Montclair, N. J. 

Dike, Miss Alice N., H. Econ., The Fenway, Boston, Mass. 

Dike, Margaret L., N. Y. D. S., 19 East 41 St., New York City. 

Dillard, Mrs. Marj- Evans, Supr. H. Econ., 510 Clay St., Lynchburg, Va. 

Dillon, Margaret Gay, Dean, Morningside College, Sioux City, Iowa. 

Dillon, Bridie M., N. Y. D. S., 99 East 8ist St., New York City. 

Dockeray, Miss Ella, 343 E. 5th St., Loveland, Colo. 

Dodd, Miss Margaret, 3 Auburn Court, Brookline, Mass. 

Domestic Science Dept., State Sch. Agr., St. Lawrence Univ., Canton, N. Y. 

Dorman, Jessie, D. S., 1 1 j Park PL, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Doty, Mrs. Paul, 286 Laurel St., St. Paul, Minn. 

Douglas, Mrs. Hattie M., 21 Pleasant St., Winthrop, Mass. 

Douglass, A. B., 6 Garland St., Boston, Mass. 

Douglas, Ruth, T. El. Sch., 250 Steuben St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Dow, Arthur W., Prof. Fine Arts, Columbia University, New York. 

Dow, Edna T., D. A., 1 10 Davis Ave., Brookline, Mass. 

Dow, Miss Ula M., D. S., Kansas State Agri. College, Manhattan, Kansas. 

Dowd, Mary T., D. S., 20 Sidney PI., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Downing, Bessie, T. Cooking, El. Sch., Richmond Bldg, Staten Island, N. Y. 

Drummond, Grace, D. S., 104 So. 10 St., Newark, N. J. 

Duflf, Marv- E., D. S., 434 William St., East Orange, N. J. 

Dudley, Clara S., Y. W. C. A. Bldg., Prospect Ave., 18th St., Cleveland, O. 

Dunbar, Miss Marjory, Dobbs Ferr\', N. Y. 

Dunlap, Mrs. Henrj' M., Savoy, 111. 

Dunlap, Mabel, T. Sewing, care of St. Bethany Union. 14 Worcester St., 

Boston, Mass. 
Dunham, Edna B., D. S., 1024 Middle Ave., Elyria, Ohio. 
Dunn, Mrs. John Kendall, 398 Hillside Ave., Jamaica, L. I , N. Y. 
Duntz, Lura L., Inst. Dressmaking, 55 Plymouth Ave., Rochester, N. \. 
Dunne, Julia, 402 E. 83d St., New York City. 
Dunning, Christine D., Monroe County, Pittsford, N. Y. 
Dutcher, Miss Elizabeth, 39 Pierrepont St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Dwidan, Margaret Louise, D. S., 236 Albany St., Buffalo, N. Y. 

Eadie, E. M., Supt. Dining Hall, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 

Easton, Mrs. Frank T., 32 Westminster St., Providence, R. I. 

Eaton, Dora, Suyjt. Hall, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. 

Ebbets, Charlotte P., Dietitian, 81 Francis St., Brookline, Mass. 

Eck, Miss Harriet, T. Sewing & Cooking, El. Sch., Humboldt School, 20th 

and Sarah St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Edwards, M. Josephine, Dietitian, F. F. Thompson Hospital, Canandaigua, 

N. Y. 
Eisenmann, Adele L., D. S. & D. A., 55 S. Hamilton St., Poughkeepsie, 

N. Y. 



iQio] List of Members Home Economics Association lai 

Eliott, Miss Grace, Matron Episcopal Theological School, Brattle St., 

Cambridge, Mass. 
Emerson, Miss L. Constance, Titusville, Penn. 
Eliott, Miss M. Louise, T. Cooking., Ind. Sch., ii Morse St., Dorchester, 

Mass. 
Ellis, Bertha Miss, D. S., 115 E. Walnut St., Pasadena. Cal. 
Ellis, Charlotte, D. S., 62 Clark St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Ellis, Miss Sarah, 30 Koum Machi, Mita, Shiba, Tokyo, Japan. 
Elmer, Alice, D. S., 6209 Franklin Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Elliott, Clara E., H. S., Nor. Sch., Hamilton, Ontario, Can. 
EUicott, Mrs. Wm. M., Pres. Club, 106 Ridgewood Road, Roland Park, 

Baltimore, Md. 
Elliott, S. Maria, H. Econ., 118 Charles St., Boston, Mass. 
Elson. William H., Supt. of Schools. Cleveland, Ohio. 
Elsworth, Mrs. Edward, 303 Mill St., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 
Emmons, Mrs. Minnie, ist Ass't Battle Creek Sanitarium, Battle Creek, 

Mich. 
Ericsson, H. Wilhelmina, D. S., 128 So. Elliot Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Evans, Miss Mary-, Pres. Lake Erie College, Painesville, Ohio. 
Evans, Sidney, Care of Delaware Hospital, Wilmington. Del. 
Evans, Miss Margaret M., 337 East Main St., Kent, O. 
Evans, Mary, D. S., 4467 Berlin Ave., St. Loms, Mo. 
Evanston School of Dom. Sci., Haven School, Evanston, 111. 
EvoJ^ Euphemia E., 6324 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Ewart, Nellie E., T. Private Sch., r Water St., Arlington, Mass. 
Ewing, Nina A., H. S., Normal School, Toronto, Canada. 
Edson, Mrs. Mary D., D. A., 2400 Manne Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Elder, Miss May L., Supt. Refectri, Lynnfield, Mass. 
Evans. Mrs. Snyder, 1240 Astor St., Chicago, 111. 

Farmer, Fannie M., Prin. Sch. Cooking, 30 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 

Fairchild, Miss Jessie E., T. Model Flat, 162 SulHvan St., New York City. 

Famsworth, Mildred L., D. S., 43 Livingston St., New Haven, Conn. 

Famsworth, Nellie W., Dir. D. S., Nor. Sch., Valley City, N. Dakota. 

Farrell, Mar>', Lect. D. S., Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Feinberg, Isabelle, D. S., 116 West 71 St., New York City. 

Fetter, Prof. R. A., Ithaca, X. Y. 

Feuling, Mrs. Alice Dynes, Prof. D. Econ., Iowa State Coll. Ames, Iowa. 

Fenwick, Miss Ina H., D. A., 714 Marshall St., Allegan, Mich. 

Ferguson, Mrs. Henr>-, Rector}' St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H. 

Filoon, Kathryn H., T. Cooking., El. Sch., 1347 Harvard St., N. W., 

Washington, D. C. 
Field, Bertha L., D. S., 423 N. Front St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Fisher, Miss Grace, Div. Dept. H. Econ., 1018 6th St., Menomonie, Wis. 
Fisher, Mrs. Irving, 460 Prospect St., New Haven, Conn. 
Fisher, Miss Katharine A., D. S., Tech. Coll. Inst., Berlin, Can. 
Fitch, Lucy W., D. S., 2032 E. 115th St., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Fitzsimmons. Miss M. C, T., Y. M. C. A., Washington, Ohio. 



122 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Flagg, E. P., 109 Union Ave., Los Angeles, Cal. 

Fleming, Mrs. Geo. B., Kittanning, Pa. 

Fletcher, Grace, Inst. Sewing, 102 Gainsborough St., Boston, Mass. 

Fletcher, Horace, 325 East 31st St., New York City. 

Flickner, Maud R., D. S., H. Sch., 351 1 Vista Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 

Flint, Miss Anna K., Ass't Prof. D. A., 1485 Michigan Ave., Columbus, O. 

Florida State Col. for Women, Tallahassee, Fla. 

Forbes, Arabel F., Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga. 

Foley, Anna U., D. S., 61 Murdock St., Brighton, Mass. 

Folger, Miss H., Milledgeville, Pa. 

Fonda, Ethel, Asst. T. Sewing, Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Ontario. 

Foran, Margaret A., Sup'v Sewing, 674 Massachusetts Ave., Boston, Mass. 

Forehand, A. Josephine, Prin. Sch., T. D. S., 40 Berkeley St., Boston, 

Mass. 
Fovv'ler, Emma J., T. State Charities, 239 West 21st St., New York City. 
Fowler, Nathaniel C, Jr., Author, 814 Pemberton Building, Boston, Mass., 
Francis, Miss Myrtle Dewey, Mt. Carroll, Ills. 

Franklin, Miss Vesta, Dir. D. S., Ala. Girls Ind. School, Montevallo, Ala. 
Frayser, Mary E., Teachers College, New York Cit3\ 
Free Public Library, Skowhegan, Maine. 

French, Lucile Grace, Ass't Lect., State Nor. Sch., Framingham, Mass. 
French, Mrs. Martha H., Supt. D. S., 114 Chnstiani St., No. Tonawanda, 

N. Y. 
Frich, Lilla Pauline, Supv. D. S., care Supt. Schools, Minneapolis, Minn. 
Francis, Emma D. S., 600 N. Walnut St., Canton, Ohio. 
Francis, Lillian D., D. S., Box 984, Phornix, Arizona. 
Frazer, Miss Opal, Warner, Oklahoma. 

Fromme, Nola K., Asst. Prin. Sch. Agr., State Coll., Brookings, S. Dakota. 
Fuller, M. Alice, D. S.. 504 West 112th St., New York City. 
Fulton, Mi.ss Lucy, T. Sewing, 29 So. Broadway, Yonkers, N. Y. 
Fuller, Grace, Supt., D. S., D. A., Mich. State Nor. Coll., Ypsilanti, Mich. 
Fullenwider, Elizabeth, Texile Art, 704 Eggleston Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Fuller, Alice Magoon, Tuguegaras, Luzon, Philippine Is. 
Puller, Miss Maud, D. S., 403 Fountain St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Pumess, Leighla G., 14x4 7th St., Menomonie, Wis. 

Gaines, E. V., 296 Ryerson St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Gait, Miss Carrie, T., H. S., 619 West Capitol Ave., Springfield, Illinois. 

Gamgce, Edith, D. S., 497 8th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Gamble, Mrs. D. B., 521 Glenwood Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Gaylord, Miss Clara, Cheboygan, Mich. 

Gaylord, Marian, D. S., El. Sch., 6441 Harvard Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Garrett. Lcona B., H. S., Stockland, 111. 

Gadwin, Miss Alice, D. S., 91 Jeflferson Ave., Grand Rapids, Mich. 

Gilbert, Miss Elsie, D. S., 193 College St., New Bedford, Mass. 

Gibbons, Miss Cary M., .\rdmore, P. 

Gleason, Miss Margaret, 741 Perry St., Davenport, Iowa. 

Gillett, Miss Grace Patton, Sup'v D. S., 47 Franklin St., Auburn, N. Y. 



1 9 1 o] List of Members Home Economics A ssociation 123 

Glynn, Mr. Frank L., Albany, N. Y. 

Gordon, Miss C. Lillian, D. S., 27 Tracy St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Graves, Miss Lulu, Asst. Prof. D. Econ., State Coll., Ames, Iowa. 

Gonan, Miss Mary M., 125 N. Converse St., Spartanburg, S. C. 

George, Sada L., Box 582, Whittier, Cal. 

George, Mr. C, Aukland, New Zealand. 

Gearing, Miss Mamie E., Div. D. S., No. 5 The Savoy, Houston, Texas. 

Geer, Elene E., D. S. & D. A., 54 West ii6th St., New York City. 

Geisel, Carolyn E., Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Mich. 

Gessner, Miss Mabel L., D. S., 150 Bradley St., New Haven, Conn. 

Gile, Katherine L., 770 Flanders St., Portland, Ore. 

Gibbs, Charlotte M., T. Textiles, University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

Gibbons, Miss Loviisa J., H. S. Lunch Room, 124 Trenton St., Melrose, 

F" Mass. 

Gibson, Miss Margaret, Cooper Union, New York City. 

Gibbs, Winifred S., T. Foods, 105 East 2 2d St., New York City. 

Gies, Wm. J., Prof. Chem., 437 West 5Qth St., New York City. 

Gladish, Miss Nan G., D. A., H. Sch., 38 Pearson St., Chicago, 111. 

Gilchrist, Maude, Dean H. Econ., Mich. Agr. College, East Lansing, 

Mich. 
Gillet, Lucy H., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Gregg, Mary, D. S., 306 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Griffith, Mrs. Grace Green, De Planter Cottage, Clifton Springs, N. Y. 
Goodrich, lola B., D. S., St. Christopher's Home, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y. 
Goodyear, Amelia, 94 Oxford St., Rochester, N. Y. 
Goodrich, Miss Henrietta I., Lee. Educ. Ind. Union, R. F. D. No. a, 

Georgetown, Mass. 
Gorton, Harriette, N. Y. C, D. S., 631 Park Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Graves, Mrs. Louisa, D. A., Y. W. C. A., 5760 Cote BriUiante Ave., St. 

Louis, Mo. 
Graham, Helen, Dir. D. S., Ruston, Louisiana. 
Green, Nellie B., Dietitian, 413 N. Main St., Fairfield, Iowa. 
Greenwood, Marjorie Hauer, Kings County Hospital, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Griscom, Lucy M., Lab. T. Chem., Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 
Griswold, Celia S., 2875 West 33rd Ave., Denver, Colo. 
Greene, M. Louise, Writer, 14 University Place, New Haven, Conn. 
Greer, Carlotta C, Head D. S. Dept., Tech. High School, Cleveland. O. 
Gregory, Mrs. J. W., The Concord, Washington, D. C. 
Grimball, Mrs. H. E., Ch'rm D. S. Ass'n, Spartanburg, So. Carolina. 
Grindley, Prof. H. S., Prof. Nutrition, L^niversity of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 
Gross, Mrs. Anna Rew, 1100 Ridge Ave., Evanston, 111. 
Green, Mrs. Anna H., Box 486, Paonia, Colo. 
Gray, Cora E., Student, 3018 Indiana Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Graves, Clara N., Dir. D. S., Y. W. C. A., Monaghan Mills, Greenville, S. C. 
Gunn, Alice M., State Normal, Superior, Wis. 
Guldin, Mrs. O. N., Fort Wayne, Ind. 



124 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Hassebrock, Mamie M., D. S., Y. W. C. A., 620 Poyntz Ave., Manhattan, 

Kansas. 
Hall, Edith, D. S., 419 College Ave., DeKalb, 111., 

Hall, Mrs. Caroline A. M., D. A., Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, Penn. 
Halsey, Mrs., The Dixie, 1337 L. St., Washington, D. C. 
Hamblen, Emily S., Head Workers Charities, 52 So. Clinton St., East 

Orange, N. J. 
Hamilton, Mrs. Warren, Club Sec'y, Kirksville, Mo. 

Hamman, Anna B.,T. Food & Cooking, Mechanics Inst., Rochester, N. Y. 
Hammel, William C. A., Dir. Man. A. & Phys., P. O. Box 147, Greensboro, 

N. C. 
Hatch, Helen Edith, Supr. Cooking & Sewing, Dalton, Mass. 
Haas, Ella, D. S., 12 Prospect Drive, Yonkers, N. Y. 
Hagar, Miss Grace E., D. S., 1761 West 25th St., Los Angeles, Cal. 
Haggart, Miss Margaret H., Prof. H. Econ., Agricultural College, 

New Mexico. 
Hale, Mrs. William B., ist V. Pres. Institute, 19 Prince St., Rochester, 

N.Y. 
Hackshaw, Miss Hazel, T. Cooking , EI. Sch., 872 East Drive, Woodruff PI. 

Indianapolis, Ind. 
Hartley, Miss Edith E., D. S., 7350 Maple PI., Maplewood, Mo. 
Harkins, Miss Lilla A., Prof. D. S., State Coll. of Agr, Bozeman, Mont. 
deHaro, Madame Gudalupe R., la Gelati 1203, Zacubaya, Mexico. 
Harris, Mabel Waite, 858 Albany St., Roxbury, Mass. 
Harlow, Miss Olive, 2 116 E. 20th Avenue, Denver, Colo. 
Hammond, Flora E., D. S., 6018 Drexel Road, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Haner, Mrs. Jennie L. K., T. D. A., University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho. 
Hanna, Miss Agnes K., 156 West 83rd St., New York City. 
Harris, Agnes Ellen, Dir. Dept. H. Econ., State College for Women, 

Tallahassee, Fla. 
Hartman, E. Grace, D. S., H. Sch., 340 Pine St., Providence, R. I. 
Hanson, Elma M., H. Econ., Milwaukee-Downer College, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Harris, Margaret C, D. S., 862 N. California Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Hatch, Miss Beulah Clark, Ass't H. Econ., Cor. Lincoln and High Aves., 

Wollaston, Mass. 
Hatch, Miss Fannie C, H. S., E. Northfield, Mass. 
Hattersley, Mrs. Nelly, Dir. D. A., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Havens, Margaret Remington, D. S., 177 Homer St., Newton Centre, Mass. 
Hayden, Miss Florence M., 321 Crescent St., Waltham, Mass. 
Haydon, Miss Helen, 5629 Lexington Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Hayes, Anna G., 135 East 15th S., New York City. 
Harding, Miss Ruth, Normal and Industrial Col., Milledgeville, Ga. 
Hartzell, Miss Ada M. C, T. H. Econ., 73 Medway St., Providence, R. I. 
Hayward, Miss Maude L., 49 Dana St., Cambridge, Mass. 
Henderson. Miss Evelyn M., 185B Mulberry St., Portland, Me. 
Henderson, Miss Nan, Care of Board of Education, Savannah, Ga. 
Hess, Emma C, D. S., 258A Emerson PI., Brooklyn, N. Y. 



1 9 1 o] List of Members Home Economics A ssociation 1 2 5 

Heising, Maria D., R. F. D. 13, Kirkwood, Mo. 

Heath, Mrs. Julian, Pres. League, H. Econ., 6 West 91st St.. New York 
City. 

Hedges, Miss Anna, D. S., The Pierpont, Northampton, Mass. 

Hedges, Anna C, Supt., 185 Emerson Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Henderson, Caroline E., D. S., S. 627 Washington St., Spokane Wash 

Herrick. Mr. C. A., Prin. H. S., 214 E. Mt. Airy Ave., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Hickman. Miss Ruth F., Div. D. S., 4604 Washington Ave., St. Louis. Mo. 

Hill, Bertha C, 25 Westervelt Ave., Plainfield, N. J. 

Himrod. Mabel C, Div. D. Econ., Thropp Polytech. Inst., Pasadena, Cal. 

Hill, Florence A., D. A., Howard University, Washington, D. C. 

Hill, Mrs. Benj. M., 372 Boylston St., Boston, Mass. 

Hill, Sarah C, B'r'd Managers, "The Bayard," New Brunswick, N. J. 

Hillman. Miss Alice, D. S., Jacksonville, Alabama. 

Hinchman, Miss Elizabeth, Dietitian, McLean Hospital, Waverly, Mass. 

Hitchcock, Miss Carrie D., Prin. Man. Tr. Sch., 709 E. State St.', Ithaca 

N. Y. * ' 

Hitchcock, Gertrude M., Dietitian, Salem Hospital, Salem, Mass. 
Homer, Josephine W., Student, 26 Tremont St., Rochester. N. Y. 
Holmes, Dr. May S., Isolation Hospital, Worcester, Mass. ' 
Hoover, Jessie A., Preceptress Sch. of Agr., N. D. Agr. Coll., N. D. 
Hopkins, Miss Bertha E., Technical High School, Providence, R. I. 
Hime, Elise R., D. S., 64 Willow Ave.. Plainfield, N. J. 
Howland, Ester M.. D. S., High School, McKeesp'ort, Pa. 
Holt, Margaret L.. N. Y. C, D. S., Woodycrest Ave.'* 162 St New York 

City. 

Hoeg, Mrs. Gertrude S.. D. S.. 106 Hancock St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Hoodless, Mrs. Adelaide, East Court, Hamilton. Ontario, Can. 
Hoagland, Mr. H. C, Adv. Man'gr Carbona Products Co.. 35 Burnet St 

Newark, N. J. 
Hollister, Aimee CaroHne, Head Nurse, Box 157, Fergus Falls. Minn. 
Holdoway, Alice, 1521 Missouri Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
Hobbs, Mrs. Josephine W., Div. H. Dept., Menomonie, Wis. 
Hollister, Miss Helen, Ass't Supt. D. S. & D. A.. Mechanics Institute 

Rochester, N. Y. 

HoUoway, Mrs. Eleanor. Supt. D. S., 2505 Cottage Grove Ave., Des 

Moines, la. 
Holman, Miss Bessie F., 2231 Talbot St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
Holzer, Penelope L., Dir. D. A., 3229 North 17th St., Philadelphia. Pa. 
Hotel Monthly, 325 Dearborn St., Chicago, 111. 
Howe, Frederic W., Chem. Food Dietetics, Framingham, Mass. 
Holmes, Miss Martha Camp, Unionville, Conn. 
Holbrook, Florence Taft, Box 128, Montevallo, Alabama. 
Holbrook, Miss Sarah M., Ass't D. A. Dept., 1501 Chapel St., New Haven 

Conn . ' 

Hotchkin, Mrs. Alice M., Supt. H. Sch. Lunch Room. 24 Calumet St 
Rochester, N. Y. ' 



126 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Howard, Miss Emma Pease, Prin. & Supt., St. Mary's School, Knoxville, 
Illinois. 

Howard, Mrs. Jay Cooke, 4632 London Road, Duluth, Minn. 

Howard, Margaret W., T. Cookery, 84 Fairmont Ave., Newton, Mass. 

Howard, Maria W., Ass't Prof. H. Econ., Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 

Howell, Lottie, E., Dietitian, Sanford Hall, Flushing, L. L 

Hunsicket, Agnes S., D. S., Lehighton, Pa. 

Huckel, Eugenia, D. S., 231 Ryerson St., Brookl\Ti, N. Y. 

Hugo, Mrs. G. B., 12 Yarmora St., Jamaica Plains, Mass. 

Huggins, Isahelle S., D. S., 607 Carleton Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Hunt, Carohne L., LaFollette's Weekly Magazine, Madison, Wis. 

Hunter, Marjorie, D. S., 408 West 73 St., New York City. 

Hummel, Sarah M., 4235 loth Avenue, N. E., Seattle, Wash. 

Hunt, Agnes, H. Econ. Dept., College of Hawaii, Honolulu, H. L 

Huntingdon, Miss Ellen A., 26 Charter Oak Place, Hartford, Conn. 

Hurlbalt, Miss Ethel, Warden Royal Vic. Col. for Women, Montreal, Can. 

Hunneman, Frances H., Mt. Pleasant Ave., Roxbury, Mass. 

Huse, Miss Helen R., Assistant D. S., Agr. Coll., Manhattan, Kans. 

Hutchins, Miss Anna P., Hebrew Technical School, 2d Ave. and 15th St., 
New York City. 

Hutchinson, Miss AHce Janet, D. S., 1362 E. 54th St., Chicago, Ills 

Hyde, Lillian S., 334 Lincoln Ave., Palo Alto, Cal. 

Hyams, Isabel F., D. S., 26 Wales St., Dorchester, MasS. 

Hyams, Sarah, D. S., 628 West 147 St., New York City. 

Hyde, Mrs. Blanche E., H. Econ., "The Chestnut Hill" 219 Common- 
wealth Ave., Chestnut Hill, Mass. 

Hyde, Mi.-^s Carr-'e, D. S. and D. A., Rock Hill, S. C. 

Iowa State Teachers College, Cedar Falls, Iowa. 
Ivery, Mrs. Mary, 249 71st St., Bay Ridge, L. I. 
Institute, Rochester, Athenaeum and Mechanics, 55 Plymouth Ave. 

Rochester, N. Y. 
Institute, Lewis, Mission St., Chicago, 111. 

Inowve, Mrs. Hide, The Japanese Women's Univ., Tokyo, Japan. 
IngersoU, Katherine Isabel, D. A., Lewis Institute, Chicago, 111. 
Irvine, Mrs. Helen Brooks, Tr. Sch., 12 14 Druid Hill, Baltimore, Md. 
Ikelheimer, Miss Minnie, D. S., 117 East 56th St., New York City. 

Jackson, Miss Rowena, D. S., 22 Essex St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Jackson, Anna Morris, 540 West i22d St., New York City. 

Jackson, Grove A., H. Econ., Treasurer Hillsdale College, Hillsdale, Mich. 

James Milliken Univ. Library, Decatur, III. 

Jame-son, Jennie D., D. S., 195 Washington St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Jameson, Harriet C, Supt. Lunch Room, 1 19th St. & Broadway, New York 

City. 
Janes, Anne, 1701 Pittston Ave., Scranton, Penn. 
Jacobs, Miss E. S., 607 O. St., N. W., Washington, D. C. 
James, Florence G., D. S., 42 Westervelt Ave., New Brighton, L. I., N. Y. 



1 9 1 o] List of Members Home Economics A ssociation 1 2 7 

Jaffa, M. E., Prof. Nutrition, University of California, Berkeley, Cal. 

Jennings, Miss Leah, D. S., 1032 Geneva St., Lake Geneva, Wis. 

Jenkins, Miss Margery L., El. Sch., 152 Fargo Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 

Jerome, Mrs. Edw. D., H. Econ., 55 Magazine St., Cambridge, Mass. 

Jenney, Miss Bertha, D. S., 2904 Vernon Place, Cincinnati, O. 

Jessup, Harriet F., Piermont, N. Y. 

Jewell, Isabella E., D. S., Teachers College, New York City. 

Jones, Miss Mary Chandler, 15 Ellery St., Cambridge, Mass. 

Jones, Miss Ella L., D. S., El. Sch., 145 N. 8th Ave., Columbus, Ohio. 

Jones, Miss Grace E., Head H. Econ., Carbondale, 111. 

Jonas, Mrs. Edward A., H. Econ., 330 Green St., Henderson, Ky. 

Johnck, Miss Marie, Meadowdale, Wash. 

Johnson, Miss E. F., 1354 Myrtle Ave., East Walnut Hills, Cincinnati. O. 

Johnson, Miss Alice A., T. Cooking, 115 So. 22d St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Johnson, Alice S., 25 Whalley Ave., New Haven, Conn. 

Johnson, Miss Florence K., Ass't Sec, 241 East 19th St., New York City. 

Johnson, Helen Louise, Ass't Ed. Good Housekeeping, 234 Paddock St., 

Watertown, N. Y. 
Johnson, Julia D., D. S., 944 Elbemo Ave., Cincinnati, O. 
Johnston, Bertha M., Asst. D. S., Kansas State Agr. Coll., Manhattan, 

Kansas. 
Jones, Mary M., D. S. Lab., 254 Tremont St., N. Tonawanda, N. Y. 
Jumper, Miss Anna B., McDonald College, Province of Quebec, Can. 

Kalbfleisch, Eleanor, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 

Keck, Katherine L., D. S., Haskell Institute, Lawrence, Kansas. 

Keeler, Miss Anna J., D. S., Man. T. Sch., 161 Houston Ave., Muskegon, 

xMich. 
Kellen, Mrs. W. U., 342 Beacon St., Boston, Mass. 

Kehew, Mrs. Mary Morton, Pres. Club, 29-a Chestnut St., Boston, Mass. 
Kellogg, Mrs. J. H., D. S., 202 Manchester St., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Kenny, Miss C. Belle, 94 West St., Reading, Mass. 
Kennedy, Mrs. CaroHne S., Vice-Pres. D. S. Ass'n, Morristown Normal and 

Industrial College, Morristown, Tenn. 
Kenrick, Miss Jeannie B., D. S., El. & H. Sch., Eliot Road, Newton, Mass. 
Kerr, Josephine Ellrod, Ass't Prof.Lec, N. Market St., Urbana, Illinois. 
Kelly, Anastasia, D. S., 99 Mercer St., Jersey City, N. J. 
Kelly, Mollie S., D. S., 53 S. Washington Sq., New York City. 
Keeney, Mrs. Willard F., 285 Lafayette St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Kilboume, Alice M., Bradford Academy, Bradford, Mass. 
Kirk, Alice G., Cleveland, Ohio. 

King, Dr. Herbert M., Chief Phys., Loomis Sanitorium, N. Y. 
King, Mrs. S. Noble, Bloomington, 111. 
King, Miss Lucy C, D. S., 50 Vernon St., Taunton, Mass. 
Kingsbury, Louise, Supv. D. S., 138 West State St., Trenton, N. J. 
Kinne, Helen, D. S., Teachers College, New York City. 
King, Delia, D. A., Imperial, Cal. 
Kinsey, Laura M., D. A., 6638 Vermont Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 



128 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Kinsey, Mrs. O. P., D. S., 252 Greenwich St., Valparaiso, Indiana. 

Kissell, Mary Lois, Copeley Square Hotel, New York City. 

Kober, Dr. George M., Dean Sch. Md., 1819 Q Street, Washington, D. C. 

Knight, Henry G., Prof. Chem., Univ. Wyoming, Laramie, Wyo. 

Knight, H. L., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

Knowles, Neale S., Asst. D. S., Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. 

Knox, Miss Ruth, D. S., 519 W. 123d St., New York City. 

Kraeger, Bertha E., D. S., 701 S. Capitol St., Pekin, 111. 

Kuichling, Mrs. Emil, 68 Irving Place, New York City. 

Kurtz, Miss Alice, Teachers College, New York City. 

Krape, Miss Katherine, D. S., Lena, 111. 

Kugel, Miss Daisy, 614 Wilson Avenue, Menomonie, Wis. 

Kysor, Mabel, 1000 Western Ave., Alleghany, Pa. 

Kysor, Miss Mabel, 4627 Center Ave., Pittsburg, Pa. 

Lanier, Mrs. Sidney, Walpole, Mass. 

Laughlin, Isabel, Boston Globe Editorial Dept., Boston, Mass. 

Leete, Miss Bertha A., Cooking & Sewing, 303 S. 3d St., Richmond, Va. 

Loomis, Miss Alice M., Supv. H. Econ., Univ. Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 

Longely, Miss Gertrude, Geneva, Nebraska. 

Lange, Elizabeth C, Supv. D. S. & D. A., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New 

York City. 
Laws, Alice, Alcorn A. & M. College, Alcorn, Miss. 

Landes, Miss Sarah W., Prof. D. S., Agr. Coll., Box 509, Stillwater, Okla. 
Larkins, Mrs. G. W., 37 Madison Ave., New York City. 
Lamed, Mrs. S. B., Author, 321 James St., Syracuse, N-. Y. 
Lathrop, Mrs. Geo. C, 71 Belmont St., Fall River, Mass. 
Laws, Annie, Pres. W. Fed. Clubs, 2927 Reading Road, Cinncinati, Ohio. 
LeBarm, Miss Margharetta M., 1147 Montana Street, El Paso, Texas. 
LeBosquet, Maurice, Dir. Amer. Sch. H. Econ., 606 W^est 69th St., Chicago, 

111. 
Leboritz, J., Library of Congress, Washington, D. C. 
Leary, Montgomer\' E., Sec. Health Asso., 397 West Avenue, Rochester, 

N. Y. 
Lee, Miss P. M., 1402 Punahou St., Honolulu, S. I. 
Lendrum, Ethel, D. S., Watseka, 111. 
Leonard, Leila G., 5417 Ridgewood Court, Chicago, 111. 
Lester, Miss Mary Louise, D. S., 314 Sargeant Street., Hartford, Conn. 
Lewis, Mrs. Adele B., Supt. \'o. i House, 26 Lexington St., E. Boston, 

Mass. 
Librarian, Educati(jn Dept., Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Library, I. S. N. U., Normal, 111. 
Library, Lewis Institute, Chicago, 111. 

Library, University of Minn., St. Anthony Park, St. Paul, Minn. 
Library, State Normal School, Spearfish, South Dakota. 
Library, Bryson, Teachers College, Columliia University, New York City. 
Library, Agricultural College, St. Anthony Park, St. Paul, Minn. 
Library, State Normal School, Mankato, Minnesota. 



19 lo] List of Members Home Economics Association 129 

Library, Univ. of Washington, Seattle, Washington. 

Library, Y. W. C. A., Prospect Branch, Prospect and E. i8th St., Cleve- 
land, Ohio. 

Library, University, Reno, Nevada. 

Library, Bradley Polytechnic Institute, Peoria, lU. 

Library, Ontario Agricultural College, Guelph, Ontario, Canada. 

Library, Newark Free, Newark, N. J. 

Library, Univ. of Wyoming, Laramie, Wy. 

Library of Ohio State Univ., Columbus, Ohio. 

Library, Rosenberg, Galveston, Texas. 

Library, Mechanics Institute, Rochester, N. Y. 

Library of Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 

Library, University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

Library, Public, North Tonawanda, N. Y., 

Library, Public, Cambridge, Mass. 

Library, Teachers Normal and Industrial College, Milledgeville, Ga. 

Library, Public D. C, Washington, D. C. 

Library, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio. 

Library, Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

Library, Illinois State Normal, University Normal, 111. 

Library, Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio. 

Lynn, Miss Gertrude, D. S. & D. A., H. Sch., Winfield, Kansas. 

Lillard, J. B., Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Cal. 

LaFollette, Mrs. Robert M., 1864 Wyoming Ave., Washington, D. C. 

Laird, Annie L., Ass't Prof. H. S., 145 Jarvis St., Toronto, Canada. 

Langworthy, C. F., Nutrition Expert, Dep't of Agr., Washington, D. C. 

Lanman, Faith R., Dir. D. S., 1447 Fair Ave., Columbus, Ohio. 

Logan, Anna, T. Cookery, 624 Huntington Chambers, Boston, Mass. 

Lovejoy, Miss Sara C, Dean Dept. of H. Econ., State College, Penn. 

Lowenthal, Miss Ethel R., 4127 Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Lublin, Mrs. Janet, Dietitian, 113 West io6th St., New York City. 

Lucas, Essa B., Dietitian, N. Y. Citv Home, Blackwell's Island, New York 
City. 

Lukins, Miss Gertrude, 407 E. Hickory St., Streator, Illinois. 

Lyford, Carrie Alberta, Dir. D. S., Illinois State Normal Univ., Normal, III. 

Land, Mrs. Frank, 314 N. 12th St., Richmond, Ind. 

Leighton, S. A. S., East Boston Station, Boston, Mass. 

Lies, Eugene T., City and County Buildings, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Latham, Florence, D. S., 251 Main St., Oneida, N. Y. 

Landru, Louise, D. S., 365 Park Ave., Paterson, N. J. 

Linville, Alice, N. Y. C, D. S., 125 Wadsworth Ave., New York City. 

Lillie, Dorothy S., N. Y. C, D. S., 131 East 45th St., New York City. 

Low, Clara L., D. S., N. Y. C, 461 West 147 St., New York City. 

Latham. Florence, D. S., 97 Clark St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Little, Miss Alice, 540 Main St., Haverhill, Mass. 

Little, Miss Mabel Collette, Dietitian, 128 East Main St., Norwalk, Ohio. 

Livermore, Mrs. Arthur L., At Home, 144 Park Ave., Yonkers, N. Y. 



130 The Journal of Home Economics [Februan- 

Livingstone, Helen, D. S., Allegheny High School, Pittsburgh, Penn. 
Logan, Amy L., Cookery, Teachers College, New York City. 
Long, Alma L, State Normal College, Greensboro, N. C. 
Long, Alma A., D. A., 2361 Harper Ave., East Norwood, O. 
Loomis, Mrs. Miriam N., Lasell Seminary, Aubumdale, Mass. 
Loring, Miss Margaret, 19 Crescent Ave., Newton Center, Mass. 
Lincoln, Mrs. Mary J., Lect., 204 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 
Lister, Helen T., D. S., 3827 Avenue P., Galveston, Tex. 
Lyon, Carrie H., Student, 200 N. Ditbridge St., Pittsburg, Pa. 
Loomis, Jo.sephine M., D. S., 190 Franklin St., Buffalo, N. Y. 
Long, Miss Beulah, D. S., Box 104 U. Place, Des Moines, Iowa. 
Lewis, Mrs. Lawrence L., 200 Buckingham St., Waterbury, Conn. 

Mann, Mrs. M. C, Hardin College, Mexico, Mo. 

Marlatt, Abby L., University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 

Marshall, Miss Josephine, 230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 

Marshall, Grace, 222 Hosea Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio. 

May, Martha Blair, D. S., Nova Collegiate Institute, Ashville, N. C. 

Mackenzie, Edith M., H. S., Halifax, N. S. 

Mass. Com. on Indus. Educ, 509—510 Ford Bldg., 15 Ashburton Place, 

Boston, Mass. 
Madeira, Miss Lucy, Prin. Sch., 1236 19th St., Washington, D. C. 
Mulligan, Catharine Archer, Prof. H. Econ., Univ. Tenn., Knoxville, Tenn. 
Milam, Ava B., Student, Foster Hall, Univ. of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 
Mimins, Miss Susan, 14 Louisburg Square, Boston, Mass. 
Minahan, Mrs. Mary E., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Morison, Miss Mar\', Peterborough, N. H. 
Moss, Mrs. John D., 325 Pulaski St., Athens, Ga. 

McCullough, Emily M., Sewing, 842 Hamilton Ave., Indianapolis, Indiana. 
McGowan, Mar>- B., D. S., Care of Y. W. C. A., Omaha, Neb. 
McRae, Alma, D. S., Indian School, Frandreau, S. Dakota. 
Miller, Theodora E., 19 Cumberland St.. Rochester, N. Y. 
McKinney, Hattie M., Durant, Okla. 
Mortimer, Miss Mabel, Dietitian, Macdonald College, P. O., Quebec, 

Canada. 
Moore, Mrs. Gales P., High St., Bristol, Conn. 
Moore, Isabel, D. S., 1801 California St., San Francisco, Calif. 
Murray, Miss Charlotte, Matron, Shaw University, Raleigh, N. C. 
McAndrew, William, Wash. Irving High School, 343^ East 12th Street, 

New York City. 
McCaffrey, M. E., University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. 
McCauley, Mrs. R. N., Matron, Soldiers' Orphans Home, Normal, 111. 
McCollin, Katherine, T. Drexel Inst., Llanerck, Delaware Co., Penn. 
McCormick, Mary G., D. S., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
McCullough, Miss E. Grace, Dietitian, Mass. General Hospital, Boston, 

Mass. 
McMurchie, Helen, Lect., Harrinton, Ontario, Canada. 
McDaniel, Annie M., D. S., 128 C St., S- E., Washington, D. C. 



1 9 1 o] List of Members Home Economics A ssociation 1 3 1 

MacDermaid, Miss Mary, 40 Berkely St., Boston, Mass. 

MacDonald, Miss Pearl, D. S., Mich. State Agr. College, Lansing, Mich. 

Macke, Marcella, D. S., 40 Emmet Street, Dayton, Ohio. 

MacVannel, Miss Elizabeth, 14 London Road, Guelph, Ontario, Canada. 

Maddocks, Mildred, Good Housekeeping, Springfield, Mass. 

Maxwell, Walter H., Palace Hotel, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Mitchell, Harriet P., T. Bac, 4056 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mitchell, Miss, University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 

Mitchell, Margaret J., 416 West 11 8th St., New York City. 

Monroe, Mrs. Mary, Prin., Lincoln School, Spokane, Wash. 

Millette, Alpha, Supt., Care of the Hospital, Glendale, W. Va. 

Mead, Mrs. Albert D., 283 Wayland Ave., Providence, R. L 

Merillet, Miss Margaret, 2562 University Place, Washington, D. C. 

Messenger, Mr. W. R., 9 Pine St., New York City. 

Michael, Miss Hattie B., 44 Maiden Lane, Kingston, N. Y. 

Miller, Bertha M., Lect., 98 N. Walnut St., Franklin, Ind. 

Miller, Clara G., D. S., 712 Summerlea St., Pittsburgh, Penn. 

Miller, Bessie E., D. S., 2433 7th St., N. W., Washington, D. C. 

Merrison, Ruth, Ass't D. S., Ames, Iowa. 

Merrow, Miss Abbie S., Matron Berea College, Berea, Ky. 

Magee, Miss M. N., 212 Warburton Ave., Yonkers, N. Y. 

Magaw, Miss Mary, 230 Jefferson St., Franklin, Ind. 

Manchester, Mrs. Melinda I., D. S. Student, Teachers CoUege, New York 

City. 
Manning, Miss Ada, College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 
Martin, Mary M., 226.Tremont St., North Tonawanda, N. Y. 
McGiffert, Miss Sarah, Sup'v Sewing. Muskegon, Michigan. 

Moore, Miss Florence, Dir. D. S., Viroqua, Wisconsin. 

Marlatt, Mrs. C. L., 1440 Mass. Ave., Washington, D. C. 

Marshall, Miss Elsie, Head Dept. D. S.. Coll., 70 S. i6th St., Richmond, 
Ind. 

Marshall, Miss Grace, Student, 222 Hosea Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Mason, Edith L., D. S., Lancaster, Mass. 

Massee, Edith, D. S. & D. A., 24 N. loth St., Hamilton, Ohio. 

Mather, Mrs. Lee Dandridge, 1099 Iowa Street, Dubuque, Iowa. 

Matthews, Elizabeth, D. S., El. Sch., 206 i6th Ave., Columbus, Ohio. 

Mathews. May, Head Worker East House, 413 W. 46th St., New York City 

Maynard, Miss Bemice S., D. S., 810 Elm St., Moscow, Idaho. 

McBride, Elizabeth C, T. Cooking, 805 N. 24th St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

McCandUss, Emily D., T. Cooking, 3334 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pena. 

McCastline, Dr. Wm. H., Coll. Dr., Teachers College, New York City. 

MacDermaid, Miss Mary, Dir. D. S., 40 Berkley St., Boston, Mass. 

Marriotte, Louise C, D. S., N. Y. C, 34 West 12 St., New York City. 

Martin, Mildred G., D. S., N. Y. C, 49 New York Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Millspaugh, Dorothy, D. S., N. Y. C, 247 West 45 St., New York City. 

MacNachtan, Ethel, D. S., N. Y. C, 414 West 118 St., New York City. 

Mayer, Hattie, D. S., N. Y. C, 55 East 118 St., New York City. 

Murray, Florence P., D. S., 97 Clark St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 



13 » The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Maeder, Emily L., D. S., 123 West 121 St., New York City. 

McGowin, Miss Margaret O., Sup'v D. A., El. Sch., 501 West 123rd Street, 
New York City. 

Mclntyre, Miss Edith A., D. S., 46 West 17th St., New York City. 

McKay, Miss Catherine J., Sup'v D. S., 4 Rosemont Court, Winnepeg, Man. 

McKane, Mr. W. J., Albion, Mich. 

McKeand, Jane W., 2429 Channing Way, Berkeley, Cal. 

McKenzie, Miss Jennie B., Butterworth Hospital, Grand Rapids, Mich. 

McKenna, Miss MoUie F., City Hospital, Blackwell's Island, N .Y. City. 

McKenzie, Miss Jennie M., Reading Hospital, Reading, Pa. 

McKeown, Matilda J., 762 West End Ave., New York City. 

Melendy, Emma L., D. S., 1000 East Vernon Ave., Los Angeles, Cal. 

Mendel, Dr. Lsffayette B., Prof. Phys. Chem., 18 Trumbull St., New Haven 
Conn. 

Myers, Miss Daisy, Box 2365, Spokane, Wash. 

Moore, Jessie, 234 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass. 

Mackenzie, Agnes H., H. Econ., Central High School, Detroit, Mich. 

Macmillan, Nealina, Matron Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Ontario, Can. 

McLaughlin, Miss EHzabeth B., 47 1 5 Mathis Ave., Madisonville, Cincinnati, 
Ohio. 

Metcalf, Miss Martha L., D. S., El. Sch., 2022 No. Senate Avenue, Indiana- 
polis, Ind. 

Michel, Miss Jennie, 159 West St., Dubuque, Iowa. 

Miller, Nell A., 907 West Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

Milner, Sarah, Dietitian, Anna Jaques Hospital, Newburyport, Mass. 

Miller, Miss Kate E., D. A., Industrial In.stitute & Coll., Columbus, Miss. 

Minot, James J. M. D., Hos. Phys., 138 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass. 

McDowell, Miss Mabel, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 

Morse, Mrs. Lewis Kennedy, Boxford, Mass. 

Manitoba Agricultural College, Winnipeg, Can. 

McAdam. Miss Grace P., D. S., El. Sch., 21 Liberty St., Detroit, Mich. 

McKinley, Miss Mae, T. Sewing & Cooking, 1120 S. Grand Ave., Los 

|r*f Angeles, Cal. 

Moore, Mrs. Jessie Darrow, T. Cooking, 6260 Jackson Park Ave., Chicago, 
III. 

Moore, Mrs. Katherine D., Head D. S., 12 Carver St., Boston, Mass. 

Moore, Maiy Eleanor, T. Bact., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Moore, Mi.ss Mary G., Nurse St. Andrews Mission, Charles Town, West Va. 

Moore, Mrs. Philip N., Pres. Fed. Worn. Clubs, 3125 Lafayette Ave., 

^. St. Louis, Mo. 

Mosman, Miss Lucy V., D. S., 630 University Place, Evanston, 111. 

Morris, Mrs. Delia J., Dir. D. A. & I). S., loi i Court St., Pueblo, Colo. 

Morris, Miss Nan, Student, Care of Bd. of Education, Mount Vemop, N. Y. 

Morrison. Miss Ethelda, D. S., 762 Bcllevue N., Seattle, Washington. 

Morse, Charles H., 15 Ashburton Place, Boston, Mass. 

Motie, Miss O., 614-13 Boone Ave., Spokane, Wash. 

Morse, Miss Lydia Dodge, D. S., Halcyon Hall, Millbrook, N. Y. 

Mudge, Miss Hope Rawson, Prin. Whittier School, Haverhill, Mass. 



i9ioJ List of Members Home Economics Association 133 

Mull, Mrs. Beth Warner, Kansas State Normal Col., Emporia, Kansas. 

Mowbray, Myrtle, D. S., Ruston, La. 

Murchie, Miss Maud, Care of Bd. of Education, Oakland, Cal. 

Murphy, Mrs. Claudia Q.. Author, 91 Madison Avenue South, Grand 
Rapids, Mich. 

McLaughlin, Miss Joanna D., Sup'v Sewing, 621 West 8th St Wilming- 
ton, Del. 

Mikels, Miss Ailsie H.. Student, 49 Beecher Hall, University of Chicago, 

Chicago, 111. 
Miller, Miss Cora'^B., 1 1 1 r 3d Ave., Fargo, N. Dakota. 
Miller, Miss Pearl C, Sherman Institute, Riverside, Cal. 
Miller. Mrs. Walter McNab, State B'r'd Charities,' 1 102 Hudson Avenue, 

Columbia, Mo. 
Morgan, Miss Barbara S., D. S., 214 Kirkwood Building, Davenport, Iowa. 
Murphy, Mrs. C. V., Dietitian & Matron, Rutland, Mass. 
Mugler, Miss Emma C. D. S.. 1256 Main St., Buffalo, N. Y. 

Negaunee Public School, Care of Orr Schurtz, Negaunee, Mich. 

Nash, Miss Nellie N., D. S., Box 193, E. Waterloo. Iowa.' 

Newton Technical School, Newtonville, Mass. 

Nat. Congress of Mothers Magazine, 147 N. Tenth St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Nation, O'Della, Lib. State Manual Training School, Pittsburg, Kansas. 

Needham, Prof. J. G., Prof. Limnology, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Neff, Miss Isabel H., T. D. S. & D. A., 2519 Auburn Ave., Cincinnati, O. 

NeUis. Miss Carlotta, 28 Peterborough St., Boston, Mass. 

Nelson, Miss Alice M., D. S., 813 13th St., N. W., Washington, D. C. 

Neville, Mrs. Arthur C, 905 Monroe Ave., Green Bay, Wis. 

Nicholass, Louisa Augusta, Dir. H. A., State Nor. Sch.' Framingham, Mass. 

Nicholson, Miss Mar>^ N., T., El. Sch., Lincoln School. Spokane, Wash. 

Noble, Helen G., D. A., 432 Hoboken Ave.. Jersey City, N. J. 

Norris, Miss H., T. H. Econ., 920 Madison Ave., Baltimore, Md 

Northrup, Miss 1. A.. D. S., 54 Pitt St.. St. John, New Brunswick. 

Normal School, Central State, Mount Pleasant, Mich. 

Nesbit. Miss Helen, City Hospital, Scranton Rd., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Nesbitt. Eleanor H., D. S. & D. A., 303 E. 9th St., Austin, Tex. 

Nesbitt, Anthos J., Dietitian, 177 Lee Ave., Ken Beach, Toronto, Ont. 

Nollen, Mrs. John Scholte. Lake Forest, 111. 

Norton, Mrs. Alice Peloubet, Ass't Prof. H. A'd'ms., Universitv of Chicago, 

Chicago, III. 
Noyes, Miss Martha B., D. S., 413 West 46th St., New York City. 
Noyes, Edith, D. S., 43 Canton St., Boston, Mass. 
Nichols. Mary, D. S., El. Sch.. The Richmond Building. New Brighton, 

Staten Island, N. Y. 
Nichols, Mary H., loi Crescent Ave., New Brighton, S. I. 
Nevins, Nanette, D. S., 1436 Crotona Pk., E., New York City. 
Nutting, Adelaide, D. Adms., Teachers College, New York City. 
Nicholson, Mar\^ L., 6425 Lloyd Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
North Dakota State Normal School, Valley City, N. D. 



134 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [February- 

Oliver, Miss Frances M., Supv. D. S., 204 E. F. Street, Ontario, Cal. 
Oakey, Grace H., D. S. N. Y. C, 12 73d St., East, New York City. 
Ober, Alice M., D. S., X. Y. C, 335 West sjth St., New York City. 
O'Brien, Man% 174 St. & So. Boulevard, New York City. 
O'Brien, Mira, 1600 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Olsen, Mabel H., Hammond, Indiana. 
O'Reilly, Dr. W. T., 2170 Hobart Blvd., Los Angeles, Cal. 
Oberlin, Mary L., T. Cooking., Nor. Sch., 509 S. Broad St., Mankato, Minn. 
Osborne, Miss Lucy A., 87 Woodland St., Worcester, Mass. 
O'Brien, Miss Emily Young, Brookline, Mass. 
O'Brien, Mrs. Robert Lincoln, 272 Walnut St., Brookline, Mass. 
Odell, Mrs. Jay Bernard, 35 S. Kensington Ave., LaGrange, 111. 

Paulsell, Jessie N., Supv. D. S., 763 S. 2nd St., San Jose, Cal. 

Palmer, Miss Cornelia, D. S., Gardiner, Ulster Co., N. Y. 

Palmer, Elizabeth D., D. S., 1331 Fairmont St., Washington, D. C. 

Palmer, Jane, D. A. & D. S., South Central High School, Spokane, Wash. 

Palmer, Miss Clara, Teachers College, New "V ork City. 

Parkin, Mabel, Y. W. C. A., Brantford, Ontario, Can. 

Parks, Miss Isabel M., Prin. St. Mary, 32 South Main St., Concord, N. H. 

Parker, Mrs. Charles E., 1467 Irving St., Washington, D. C. 

Palliser, Miss Bertha, 1397 Ocean Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Parmelee, Susan, D. A., Polytechnic High School, Los Angeles, Cal. 

Parsons, Maude E., Supv. H. Sch. Lunch Room, 220 South Madison St., 
Rockford, 111. 

Parsons, Elizabeth, D. S., 1862 East 90th St., Cleveland, O. 

Patten, F. C, Rosenberg Library, Galveston, Texas. 

Patten, Dr. Simon N., Prof. Econ., University of Pennsylvania, Phila- 
delphia, Penn. 

Patterson, Olive G., Medical Col., Toronto Univ., Toronto, Can. 

Patterson, Juliet C, Supt. Hall, 8 Montrose St., Roxbury, Mass. 

Patterson, Olive Fair, Physical Chem., Toronto University, Toronto, Can. 

Patton, Frances, T. Tr. Sch., 2021 Poplar St., Philadelphia, Penn. 

Peacock, Mary H., Ass't T. Cooking, Richmond, Indiana. 

Pearson, R. A., Albany, N. Y. 

Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind. 

Phelps, Helen Garrett, Student, 521 Columbia St.. Burlington, Iowa. 

Phelps, Lena, D. S., 315 Connor Ave., Joplin, Mo. 

Philbrick, Annette E., Ass't Prof. H. Econ., 1023 H. St., Lincoln, Neb. 

Pickering, Miss Lena M., 954 East 55th St., Los Angeles, Cal. 

Pearson, Miss Susan C, Housekeeper, 321 Huron St., Chicago, 111. 

Penniman, Annie B., Asst., H. A., Normal School, Framingham, Mass. 

Peppard, Mrs. Lillian L,, Asst. D. S. & D. A.. Mich. Agr. College, East 
Lansing, Mich. 

Pequignot, Mary Boland, 26 Floyd St., Winthrop Highlands, Mass. 

Pettengill, Miss Florence D.. Head D. S. Dept., Nor. Sch., Duluth, Minn. 

Peal, Amelia, D. S., 556 Mt. Prospect Ave., Newark, N. J. 



igio] List of Members Home Economics Association 135 

Pierce, Lucy H., Dir. D. A., 194 Daboll St., Providence, R. I. 

Pike, Miss Sophronia Bulfinch, Western College for Women, Oxford, Ohio. 

Pinchot, Gifford, Forester, 1615 Rhode Island Ave., Washington, D. C. 

Pincomb, Helena M., T., H. S., 712 Oregon St., Urbana, 111. 

Piper, Miss Ethel R., D. S., Spelman Seminary, Atlanta, Ga. 

Pirie, Emma E., Supv. D. S., 215 Ogden St., San Antonio, Texas. 

Plimpton, Louis E., D. A., 6029 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Pohlmann, Christine, D. A., 978 Beauline St., Detroit, Mich. 

Pomeroy, Larinia, Wolf Hall, Denver, Colo. 

Pomeroy, Lavinia, D. S., Hawey Ave., Lockport, N. Y. 

Poorman, Miss Amy, 114 S. Maple St., Centralia, 111. 

Pope, Lena M., Dir. D. S., 449 Fifth St., Manistee, Mich. 

Powell, Miss Elsie, Board M'n'g N. Y. Diet. Kitchen Assn., 324 West 58th 
St., New York City. 

Pray, Miss Florence A., 423 W. Lowell St., Kalamazoo, Mich. 

Preble, Grace R., Y. W. C. A., 80 Washington Place, New York City. 

Prescott, Mrs. C. H., Jr., 5607 Cedar Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Pett, Mrs. Clara G., Dir. D. S., 717 W. Broadway, Winona, Minn. 

Pettit, Mary, D. S., H. S., Lockport, 111. 

Pierson, Clementine M., D. S. & D. A., 616 Main St., Oshkosh, Wis. 

Pitner, Ina K., Dir. H. Econ., 1103 N. East St., Bloomington, 111. 

Porter, Mattie, D. S., 412 N. 8th St., St. Josephs, Mo. 

Pratt, Emilie, Dir. D. S., 148 Jackson St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Pearce, Mrs. Charles E., 251 S. Hill St., Los Angeles, Cal. 

Peirson, Louise, 'Asst. H. Econ. Dept., Coll., 314 E. Locust St., Blooming- 
ton, 111. 

Peters, Gertrude E., State Normal, Moorhead, Minn. 

Prentiss, Bertha C, Supv. D. S., 2429 Channing Way, Berkeley, Cal. 

Proudfit, Fairfax T., Dietetics, 238 Madison Ave., Memphis, Tenn. 

Purcell, Euphemia, Cooking. 104 John St., Utica, N. Y. 

Putnam, Mrs. A. B., Manistique, Mich. 

Putnam, George A., Supt. Dept. Agr., Parliament Buildings, Toronto, Ont. 

Putnam, Dr. Helen C, Pres. Amer. Acad. Med., Rhode Island Ave., 
Providence, R. I. 

Perkins, Fannie D., D. S., 537 First St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Perham, Bertha, D. S.. N. Y. C, 524 West 123d St., New York City. 

Pond, Harriet, D. S., 136 Irving Place, Jersey City. 

Per^>^ Mabel, D. S., 268 Ryerson St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Perry, K. Willa, D. 8., 268 Ryerson St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Purdy, Miss LeUa, D. A., Iowa State Coll., Ames, Iowa. 

Quintero, Conchita, D. S., El. Sch., 69 Clinton Ave., Jamaica, L. I. 

Reber, Louis E., University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 
Rambo, Jessie E., Delong, 111. 

Randall, Jean Frances, 162 Bowers St., Jersey City, N. J. 
Ray, Mrs. Margaret S., 178 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 
Raitt, Effie I., House Dir., Willard Hall, Evanston, 111. 



136 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Rausch, Miss Mary F., Head D. S., State Agr. Coll., Ft. Collins, Colo. 

Raven, Paulina E., Prof. H. Econ., X. Nor. and Ind. Sch., Aberdene, S. D. 

Ravenhill, Alice, 26 Gunterstone Road, Baron's Court, W., London, Eng. 

Regents of the Univ. of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 

Rushmore, Ellen R., D. S., 196 Jeralemon St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Riley, Anna M., 316 West 116 St., New York City. 

Richardson, Eliza B., D. S., Care of S. L. I. I., Lafayette, La. 

Rider, Mrs. Grace Godfrey, Grand View on Hudson, N. Y. 

Rinaker, Miss Harriet, 307 John St., Champaign, 111. 

Robson, Harriette Irving., Tr. Sch., 118 W. 7th St., Leadville, Cole. 

Robbins, Mrs. Lulie W., 94 Lawrence St., New York City. 

Roter, Bess P., 1505 Grand Ave., Parsons, Kansas. 

Roe, Winifred, D. S., N. Y. C, 606 Lexington Ave., New York City. 

Ricketson, Ermina, D. S., 599 East 164 St., New York City. 

Russell, Elizabeth, D. S., 423 West 118 St., New York City. 

Russell, Mrs. Chas. S., 66 Adams St., Orange, Mass. 

Rose, Mabel L., D. S., 429 Sterling PI., Broddyn, N. Y. 

Rowe, Miss Louise, Dietitian at Hospital, 321 Boone St., Boone, Iowa. 

Records, Mrs. W. P., Ch'r'm H. Econ., Lawton, Oklahoma. 

Renn, Miss Eliza Luella, 417 West 120th St., New York City. 

Raymond, Mrs. I. S., Sidney, 111. 

Reat, Miss Ruth, Charleston, Illinois. 

Readers Review, The, 12 York Buildings, Adelphi, London, W. C. 

Reed, Miss Bertha M., 27 Newbury St., Boston, Mass. 

Riggles, W. T., 212 1 G St., N. W., Washington, D. C. 

Rees, Mrs! Mabel L., T. Cooking, 33 Winthrop St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Rees, Eleanor L., D. S., 102 Harris St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Reynolds, Miss Cora, College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Rhodes, Mrs. Clara G., T. Cooking & Sewing, Galesburg, 111. 

Ritter, E. Adele, Mattoon, 111. 

Rice, Miss Susy D., Storrs, Conn. 

Roach, Ethel Frances L., Windsor, Nova Scotia. 

Rich, Jessie P., T. Sch. Ed., 21 Beecher Hall, Chicago, 111. 

Richards, Mrs. Ellen H., T. San. Chem., Mass. Inst. Tech., Boston, Mas-^ 

Richeson, Virginia C, D. S. & D. A., 240 Walnut St., Freeport, 111. 

Ridlon, Miss Hester, H. Econ., la Eliot Place, Jamaica Plain, Mass. 

Rinehart, Elizabeth, D. S., 220 15th Ave., N., Seattle, Wash. 

Riordan, Rev. M. J., Rector, Pikesville, Baltimore Co., Maryland. 

Ripley, Mrs. EUor C, Asst. Supt. Pub. Sch., 1247 Commonwealth Ave., 

Boston, Mass. 
Rose, Lorena, Dietitian, Box A, Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Ryley, Miss Violet Mildred, H. S., 341 Wellesley St., Toronto, Canada. 
Robertson, Dr. James W., Prin. Macdonald College, Quebec, Canada. 
Robinson, Miss Eva R., Cobb Hall, University of Chicago, 111. 
Roe, Ada, D. S., 50 Amherst St., East Orange, N.J. 
Rogers, Juliet O., 1230 Amsterdam Avenue, New York City. 
Rolston, Mrs. ClifTord J., D. S.. 270 New St., Macon, Ga. 
Rollins, Mi.ss S. P., 15 Tappan St., Roslindale, Mass. 



igio] List of Members Home Economics Association 137 

Ritter, Miss Florence M., Student, 420 W. 121st St., New York City. 

Root, Miss Kathryn H., D. S., 39 Broad St., Stamford, Conn. 

Rose, Flora, Lee. H. Econ., Cornell, 811 E. State St., Ithaca, N. Y. 

Rosenberg, Library Galveston, Texas. 

Rossman, Miss Rena, Prin. D. A., Miller School, Virginia. 

Rounsevall, Eugenie, D. S,, El. Sch., 304 Tappan St., Columbus, Ohio. 

Runn, Miss Eliza S., 341 Marengo, Pasadena, Cal. 

Rugg, Miss Ellen M. Private Sch., 1813 Newton St., Washington, D. C. 

Ruggles, Anne Reed, Dir. D. S., St. Mary's School, Knoxville, 111. 

Rulon, Phoebe D., 7 Hart St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Rushmore, Miss Ellen R., D. S., Manual Training H. School, 7th Ave. and 

4th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Russell, Jas. E., Dean T. C, 500 West 121st St., New York City. 
Russell, Martha M., Supt. Hospital, 447 West 59th St., New York City. 
Russell, Mrs. Chas. S., 66 Adams St., Orange, Mass. 
Rust, Miss Mary E., The Noanet, Wellesley, Mass. 
Rutherford, Miss Nellie B., 922 French St., Washington, D. C. 
Ryan, Elizabeth F., Supv. Sewing & Cooking, 341 Wellesley St., Toronto, 

Canada. 
Ryder, Mrs. Margaret True, Box 81, Plaiston, N. H. 

Rowan, Gertrude N., Lect. Farmers* Institute, 1645 K. St., Lincoln, Neb. 
Redd, Miss Edith, Oneida State Academy, Preston, Idaho 

Sachs, Julius, Prof. Teachers College, New York City. 

SaflFord, A. F., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Sage, Miss Elizabeth, D. A., 2337 Broadway, New York City. 

Sale. Miss S. Frances, Student, Teachers College, New York City. 

Sands, Mrs. Nina DeLong, Ch'r'm H. Econ., Pentwater, Mich. 

Sargent, Mrs. Winthrop, Dir. Sch., 207 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass 

Schenck, Miss Ella, 417 West ii8th St., New York City. 

Schuyler, Helen Van A., Supr. H. Econ., Normal School, North Adams, 

Mass. 
Scott, Rhea C, D. S., Ashland, Va. 

Scheiffer, Miss Josephine, 1024 W. 20th St. Des Moines, Iowa. 
Secrest, May, Head H. A., San Luis Obispo, Cal. 

See, Miss Helen M., Prof. Drake Univ., 6503 Kimbark St., Chicago, 111. 
Seymour, Lurene, D. A., Coll., Menomonie, Wisconsin. 
Shailer, Mrs. William G., Ch'r'm Com. Food Invest., 252 West 76th St., 

New York City. 
Shand, Miss Sarah, matron. Drawer 320, Hamilton, Ontario. 
Shannon, Agnes N., 73 Douglas Ave., Freeport, 111. 
Sharp, Helen, Ass't D. S., 54 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass. 
Sharp, Katharine L., 2nd V. Pres. Lake Placid Club, Essex Co., N. Y. 
Sherman, Mrs. Henry C, Hastings on the Hudson, N. Y. 
Sanda, Miss Lucinda T., 98 Sherman Ave., Medford, Mass. 
Schussler, Amy, Prin., 94 Lawrence St., New York City. 
Sharkland, Leah, Dietitian, Pro. Episcopal Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Shute, Mrs. H. Josephine. P. O. Box 566, Hayward, Cal. 



j^g The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Staples, Clara G.. D. S. & H. Econ., Petersham, Mass. 
Stephens, Merle M., Monterallo, Alabama. 
Snook. Esther L., D. S., Teachers College, New York City. 
Starbuck, Rolena, Supv. D. S., 303 West Adams St Muncie Ind^ 
Stewart, Lena Belle. D. S. & M. T., 2613 Olive St., Kansas City. Mo. 
Stickland. Miss Eunice. T. Cooking., Mechanics ^^ff ^^^' ^^f^^^^^^^'^-^- 
Stone Miss Abbie, T. Cooking, El. Sch., 434 N. 33d St., Philadelphia. Pa. 
Schauffler Clara E., D. S.. 2862 Marion Ave., New York City. 
Ichfffer. Miss Josephine. Dir. D. S., El. Sch., 814 W. x7th St., Des Moines. 

[ Iowa. 

Smith, Miss Anna E.. S. N. S., St. Cloud. Minn. 

Stewart. Miss Gwendolyn, H. S.. 62 Chipston \ lUas, Notting Hill Gate. 

I London, Eng. ,, „ t^ a,. 

Strong, Miss Eunice E., D. A. & D. S.. 59 I^inden Hall, Danvers. Mass. 
Studley Miss Flora C. D. S., State Normal School, Stevens Point, Wis. 
Spring, Miss H. M., Dir. D. S., Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. Pa. 
Saxton. Elizabeth W.. D. S., Pub. Sch.. 1347 Harvard St., Washington. 

D. C. 

Sutherland, Miss Sarah A., 42 1 Lake St., Madison, Wis. 
Stanley, Miss Louise, H. Econ., 36 Trumbull St.. New Haven, Conn. 
Skinner Miss Edna, D. S., Teachers College. New York City. 
Sanborn, Gertrude, 50 Temple Place, Boston, Mass. 
Sanders. Gertrude E.. D. S.. 230 LaSalle Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
Scott. Miriam E.. Supv. D. S., 6214 Madison Ave., Chicago. 111. 
Sherman, Cora A. B., Hastings on Hudson, 
Spalding, Mary. D. S.. Coll.. 17 Florence Ave., Lowell, Mass. 
Spray Mabel R.. T. Cooking, ArUngton Heights, 111. 
State Normal Training and Manual School, Pittsburg, Kan^ 
Stump Gertrude. Asst. D. S.. .206 Vattin St., Manhattan, Kansas. 
Sunderland. Belle. 1831 Peters Ave.. New Orleans, La. 
Sweet Barbara, Dir. Dept. H. Econ., State Sch. Science, Wahpeton N^D. 
Scott Neva Augusta. Prof. D. S.. West Va. Univ., Morgantown, W. Va. 
Standard, Mrs. j. W.. 648 N. Garfield Ave.. Pocatello. Idaho. 
Stewart. Ethel C. 420 S. 5th St.. Boise. Idaho. 

Sullivan. Mary EHzaboth. Master's Asst.. Peace St. Grammar School, 
Providence, R. I. 

Swift & Co.. Union Stock Yards, Chicago. 111. 

Schmidt, Bertha, 905 Bluff St., Dubuque. Iowa. 

Smith, Maud E., D. S., N. Y. C. 195 Claremont Ave., New \ ork City. 

Smith! Cerelle. 4 Toledo Ave., Elmhurst, L. I. 

Sherman, Miss Alice M., D. S., Newport, Vt. 

Shaw Clara H Purveyor Womans (\)llegc, Baltimore, Md. 

Shaw Mrs. Juli'a W., Asst. D. S., 2024 i.th St., N. W.. Washington, D. C. 

Sherman, Henry C, Prof.. Columbia University. New York City^ 

Shoe Miss V. Ethrelda. T. Sewing. 232 N. 5th St.. Philadelphia. Pa. 

Sidwcll. Mrs.. 804 Twenty-first St.. Washington. D. C. 

Signor. Katharine A.. 2 South St.. Ridgway. Penn. 

Sill. Ruth P., T. Sewing. 70 Adams St.. Rochester. NY. 



iQio] List of Members Home Economics Association 139 

Simon, Cornelia E., D. S., Miller School, Virginia. 

Skinner, Honora T., D. S., 120 Fifth St., Pittsburg, Pa. 

Slaght, Mrs. Elizabeth, D. S., 221 Mt. Vernon St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 

Slawson, Grace M., T. Cooking & Dietitian, McLean Hospital, Waverly, 

Mass. 
Smedley, Emma, H. Econ., 6 East Front St., Media, Pa. 
Smith, Frances Gordon, Lect., 575 W. Peachtree St., Atlanta, Ga. 
Smith, Gertrude Morris, D. S., 223 Lyon St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Smith, Mrs. Geo. Otis, 2137 Bancroft Place, Washington, D. C. 
Smith, Miss Lilie C, T. Chem. & H. Econ., High School, Brookline, Mass. 
Smith, Miss M. Pauline, Ass't Let. House, 87 Poplar St., Boston, Mass. 
Smith, Philip H., Mass. Expt. Sta., Amherst, Mass. 
Snively, Alice F., D. S., 3143 Calumet Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Snively, Letitia R., D. S., 3250 S. Park Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Snow, Mary, Supv. D. S., Pub. Sch., Chicago, Ills. 
Snow, Jenny H., H. Econ., University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 
Sosnett, Miss Martha R., D. S., 117 Bolton Street East, Savannah, Ga. 
Souder, M. Attie, Supv. D. A., 1519 Portland Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 
Southard, Lydia, Coll. Derm., 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Speer, Miss Editha Lou., T. Sewing & D. S., Berea, Kentucky. 
Speller, Muriel I., H. A., Technical High School, Springfield, Mass. 
Spencer, Miss Ella B., 37 Elliott St., Springfield, Mass. 
Spooner, Miss Ella J., H. Econ., Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 
Spring, Miss H. M., Dir. D. S., Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Sumner, Caroline L., D. S., Fort Edward, N. Y. 
Stocking, Prof. W. A., Cornell Univ., Ithaca, N. Y. 
Stevens, Mrs. F. L., Ch'r'm Dept. Ed., West Raleigh, North Carolina. 
Stevens, Mrs. O. H., 32 Pleasant St., Springfield, Mass. 
Stevens, Mrs. F. S., Raleigh, N. C. 

Steeb, Carl E., Secretary Ohio State University, Columbus, O. 
Skelton, Christine P., D. S., 296 6th Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
St. Vincent's Academy, Helena, Montana. 
Stanton, Josephine, D. S., 378 Greene Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Simmons, Mary P., D. S., 46 Park Ave., Yonkers, N. Y. 
Story, Helen M., D. S., 1447 Pacific St., Yonkers, N. Y. 
Strong, Sarah P., D. S., 239 Amity St., Flushing, L. I. 
Stone, Elizabeth E., Supv. D. S. & D. A., 320 West 4th St., Decatur, III. 
Stone, Mabel, D. S., 147 West iii St., New York City. 
Saruya, Dona, D. S., N. Y. C, 171 East 81 St., New York City. 
Small, Mary E. L., Dir. Buffalo Public School, Buffalo. N. Y. 
Smith, Miss A. L., Lisbon, N. Y. 
Smith, Florence, D. S., Factoryville, Pa. 
Sabin, Ellen C, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Sinsheimer, Eleanor, D. S., N. Y. C, 76 West 86th St., New York City. 
Sisters of St. Joseph, St. John's Hospital, Island Park, Fargo, S. Dak. 
Stewart, Frances E., 512 N. Normal Parkway, Chicago, 111. 
Stimson, Lucile H., 159 West 86th St., New York City. 
Stocking, Miss Mary B., Asst. H. Econ., 86 Charles St., Boston, Mass. 



I40 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Stone, Mabel, 7th Ave. and 4th St., Brooklyn, Mass. 

Stoner, Miss Minnie A., Dean, Wyoming State Univ., Laramie, Wyo. 

Streibert, Ethel K., D. S., 2072 E. 79th St., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Steiger, Miss Katherine French, Supv. D. A., B. Eden., Rochester, N. Y. 

Stancill, Miss S. K., Protestant Hospital, Norfolk, Va. 

Stanley, Miss Emily W., Matron, Crocker Hall, Framingham, Mass. 

Stannard, Mrs. Margaret, Prin. Tr. Sch., 19 Chestnut St., Boston, Mass. 

Stryker, Adelaide B., D. S., 9 Lake Street, White Plains, N. Y. 

Sutherland, Isabel, D. S., 124 Lexington Ave., New York City. 

Sutton, Del T., Publ., 157 Alexandrine Ave., West Detroit, Mich. 

Swanson, Miss Grace M., McLean Hospital, Waverly, Mass. 

Swartz, Mary Davies, T. Nutrition, 74 Lake Place, New Haven, Conn. 

Swenson, Sadie, Ass't D. A., College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Swett, Alma B., Supv. D. S., 35 4N . Main St., Brewer, Maine. 

Swift, Florence Roberta, Dir. D. S., Y. M. C. A.. Akron, Ohio. 

Scott, Miss Dorothy, Cedar Falls, Iowa. 

Stanrod, Mrs. D. W., 648 N. Garfield Avenue, Pocatello, Idaho. 

State School of Science, Wahpeton, N. Dakota. 

Stern, Miss Frances, 18 Angell St., Dorchester, Mass. 

Stout Institute, Menomonie, Wis. 

Scatchard, Miss Ethel, Dir. School of Housekeeping, 32 Willow Street, 

Waterbury, Conn. 
Stewart, Miss Rhea, Student. 250 S. Main St., West End, Pittsburg, Pa. 

Tempe, Normal School of Arizona, Tempe, Ariz.. 
Teachers Normal and Industrial College, Milledgeville, Ga. 
The Association Monthly, 125 East 27th St., New York City. 
Table Talk, Cooperstown, N. Y. 

Taber, Miss Nan A.. T., Pub. Sch., 15 19 N. Illinois St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
Talbot, Marian, Prof. H. Adm., University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 
•Tamblyn, M. Beatrice, Lee. University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 
Taylor Miss Ellen, Supt. S. Ind. Classes, 414 Hamilton Ave., Norfolk, Va. 
Telford, Emma Paddock, Mrs. Ed. Kitchen Dept. Butterick Magazine, 

1462 Bedford Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Telford, Emma Paddock, Edgewood Lane, PaUsade, N. J. 
Terrill, Bertha M., H. Econ., Univ. Vt., Burlington, Vt. 
The Reading Room, Acadia Seminary, Wolfville, N. S. 
Thompson, Miss, T. Sewing & Dressmaking, H. S., 25 Whalley Ave., New 

Haven, (^onn. 
Thompson, Miss Helen, Prof. H. Econ., Rhode Island Coll., Kingston, R. I. 
Thompson, S. H., Supt. City Sch., Hastings, Neb. 
Tringle, Miss LiUian M., Supv. D. S., Milks College, California. 
Thompson, Annie, D. S., ByrdclilT, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N. Y. 
Thompson, Miss Christina M., T. Sewing & Dressmaking, H. Sch., 34>^ E. 

12th St., New York City. 
Thomdike, E. L., Prof. El. Psy., Teachers College, Columbia University. 
TYie Delineator, New York City. 
Tingle, Miss Lilian E., Supv. D. S., H. Sch., 185 East 15th St., Portland, 

Ore. 



1 9 1 o] List of Members Home Economics A ssociation 1 4 1 

Tingley, Mrs. E. P., At Home, 403 East Boulevard, Charlotte. N. C. 

Tobey, Mrs. Evelyn S., D. S., 195 Claremont Ave., New York City. 

Toney, Miss E. E., 23 Winthrop St., Roxbury, Mass. 

Tough, Mary, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Toll, Florence M., D. S., 12 Randolph St., Passaic, N". J. 

Townsend, Mary Louise, Dir. D. S., Coll., Cedar Falls, Iowa. 

Training School, Thos. Normal, 3100 N. Gr. Boulevard, Detroit, Mich. 

Trowbridge, Eleanor EHz., D. S. & D. A., Peace Dale, Rhode Island. 

Trowbridge, M. C, D. A., Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Truman, Edna, D. S., Chem., Zool., in H. Sch., Geneseo, Illinois. 

Turner, Isabel Spencer, D. S., Pub. Sch., 209 Dyckman St., New York City 

Tuttle, Gertrude, H. Econ. Dept., Man. Train. H. Sch., Indianapolis. Ind. 

Thomas, Miss Lucy A., 123 Chestnut St., Evansville, Ind. 

Trenholm. M. deG., Head Worker Set. House. c;4o East 76th St. New York 

City. 
Treat, Miss Florence N., 100 Broadway, Chelsea, Mass. 
Torrey, Britannia G., 2414 Ho>'t Ave., Everitt, Washington. 
Tutton. Mabel Annette, 140 York St., Buffalo, N. Y. 
Tuttle, Mary Louise, Dean of Women, Univ. Tenn., Knoxville. Tenn. 
Tweedy, Mrs. R. L., 11 706 Kelton Ave., N. E., Cleveland, O. 
Tainter, Grace, D. S., 556 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
-Twiss, Miss Fannie A., H. S., Coll., Gait. Canada. 
Thomas, Alberta T., Prin. H. Econ. Dept., Conn. Agri. Coll., Storrs, Conn. 
Taylor, Bessie, D. S., N. Y. C, 430 Lafayette St., New York City. 
Thompson, Elizabeth, D. S., 151 West 99 St., New York City. 
Thompson, Marion, D. S., 224 St. James Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Trufant, Mrs. I. P., D. S., Care Methodist Train. Sch.. 422 Park Place, 

Nashville, Tenn. 
Treganza. Alice. Supv. D. S. in Pub. Sch., 1107 N. Prairie St., Joplin, Mo. 
Tribune, New York, Woman's Department, New York City. 
Townsend, Vera, Stanford Univ., Palo Alto, Cal. 

Treat. Nola, Ass't Cafeteria & D. S., in Y. W. C. A., Care Emerson Mfg 
Co.. Rockford, 111. 

Ulrich, Miss Charlotte M., Supv. D. S. & D. A., Hotel Glencoe, Cincinnati 

Ohio. 
Umberger, May E., D. A. & D. S., Box S3, Parsons, Kansas. 
Usher, Susannah, Asst. H. S., University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 
Utley, Helen A., D. S., 42 Westervelt Ave., New Brighton, S. I. 
University of Missouri, General Librarj^ Columbia, Mo. 
University Library, Reno, Nevada. 

University of Wyoming, Dep't of Home Economics, Laramie, Wy. 
University of Maine Library, Orono, Maine. 

University Extension Division, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 
Vail, Mary E., Dir. D. S. College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 
Van Arsdale, May B., Phys. Sc, 457 West 123d St.. New York City. 
Van Baalen, Martha, Supv. D. S. & D. A., 1009 Indiana Ave., LaPorte, Ind 
Van Blarcom, Leah G., Dir. D. S., 308 West Euclid Ave., Pittsburg, Kan. 



142 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Vanderbilt, Sadie B., Asst. T. C, 216 West 103d St., New York City. 

Van Duyne, Miss Florence, T. Sewing & Dressmaking, 246 Summer Ave., 
Newark, N. J. 

Van Duzer, Miss Adelaide L., D. S., 1824 East 79th St., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Van Nostrand, Nora A., D. S. & D. A., Box 123, Gilmanton, N. H. 

Van Rensselaer, Martha, Lect., 811 E. State St., Ithaca, N. Y. 

Van Zile, Mrs. Mary P., Prof. Kansas Agr. Coll., Manhattan, Kansas. 

Veditz, Dr. C. W. A., Prof. Sociology, George Washington Univ., Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Van Deusen, Miss Myrtle C, D. S., Waldo Hall, Corvallis, Ore. 

VanLier, Miss Marion S., D. S., Waldo Hall, Corvallis, Ore. 

Viall, Miss Grace M., D. S., Illinois Woman's College, Jacksonville, 111. 

Vincent, Harriet L., D. A., 133 E. Circle Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Vivian, Prof. Alfred, Prof. Agr. Chem., 375 West 8th Ave., Columbus, O. 

von Bliicher, Marie M., College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas, 

Van Meter, Miss Anna R., Asst. Prof. D. S., Univ. IlUnois, Urbana, 111. 

VanHom, Flora H., D. S., 294 Clifton Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Vail, Mabel H., Dir. D. S., 99 Mercer St., Jersey City. 

Vaughn, Lucy L., 113 No. Shore Drive, South Bend, Ind. 

Van Tassel, D. S., El. Sen., 610 Gifford Place, Hudson, N. Y. 

Ware, Mrs. Charlotte Barrell, 74 Mt. Vernon St., Boston, Mass. 
Wyche, Pearl, Sec. Mfg. Co., Proximity Station, Greensboro, N. C. 
Woodward, Grace H., D. S., Kans. State Agr. Coll., Manhattan, Kan. 
Walling, Mrs. Stewart, 1709 WiUiams St., Denver, Colo. 
Wagoner, Helen A., D. S., 29 DeKalb St., White Plains, N. Y. 
Warner, Grace, D. S., Onawa, Iowa. 
•Watson, Mary Urie, H. Econ. Dept. Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Ont. 
Winnewisser, Rina, Colonial Hall, Fulton Sta., Jamaica, L. I. 
Wilcox, Miss Alice W., 165 Prospect St., Providence, R. I. 
Wadsworth, Miss Ida, 503 West 122 St., New York City. 
Wood, Mary J., West Broadway, Sedalia, Mo. 
Woolridge, Ethel Grace, 180 Bellevue Ave,, Melrose, Mass. 
Wade, Mrs. Mary L., H. Econ., H. S., 112 Elm St., Wollaston, Mass. 
Ward, Anna L., Pres. Inst. Craft & Industry, Box 575, Waterbury, Conn. 
Weigley, Mildred. D. S., Pub. Sch., 419 College Avenue, DeKalb, 111. 
Williams, Margaret M., Pub. S. O., Horseheads, N. Y. 
Wood, Angeline, D. S., Agr. Sch., Alfred, N. Y. 
Waite, Charlotte A., Supv. D. S. & D. A., 616 W. Walnut St., Kalamazoo, 

Mich. 
Warner, Mrs. J. B., 216 Beacon St., Boston, Mass. 
Wayne, Helen C, Dietitian, 224 Alexander St., Rochester, N. Y. 
Welch, Mrs. M. D., Carmel-by-the Sea, Calif. 
Welch, Charles, Prin. Sch. D. S.. 917 Delaware St., Scranton, Pa. 
Williams, Miss Rebecca, D. S., 1218 Laurel Ave., Knoxville, Tenn. 
Wilson, Miss Wealtha, Writer, Lect., 425 West ii8th St., New York City. 
Wilson, Lillian M., D. S.. Coll., Denmark, Maine. 
Wetmore, Amoret S., D. S., 741 10th Ave., New York City. 



1910] List of Members Home Economics Association 143 

Wentworth, Alzira E., Student, 28 Peterborough St., Boston, Mass- 
Weaver, Mr. Herbert, 32 High Rock Way, AUston, Mass. 

Woolson, Sarah, D. S., 17 Crescent PL, Yonkers, N. Y. 

Westfall, Martha, D. S., 601 West 148 St., New York City. 

Western State Normal School, Kalamazoo, Mich. 

Wight, Millie M., D. S., 501 West 121 St., New York City. 

Welling, Mary M., Sec. Housekeepers' Alliance, 478 Washington Ave., 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Walker, Ruth, 1829 58th St., E. Seattle, Wash. 

Western State Normal School, Kalamazoo, Mich. 

Wright, Miss Mary, Dir. Cooking, 4308 Frankford Ave., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Waite, Geo. S., Dir. Man. Tr., Coll., 616 W. Walnut St., Kalamazoo, 
Mich. 

Walker, Mrs. A. E., Hinsdale, 111. 

Walker, Helen A.. Dir. H. Econ. Dept., Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn. 

Walker, Lula V., D. S., Pub. Sch., 2023 W. North Ave., Baltimore, Md. 

Ward, Mabel, D. S., Dept., Coll., Columbus, Miss. 

Whitmore, Mrs. W. G., Pres. H. Econ. Assn., Valley, Nebraska. 

Wilbor, Mary, Cooking, Pub. Sch., Pittsford, N. Y. 

Ward, May, D. S., Coll., 138 E. 14th North St., Provo, Utah. 

Ware, Harriet, Burdett Ave., Hingham, Mass. 

Wardall, Ruth A.. Head D. S., Hayes Hall, Columbus, Ohio. 

Warren, Elsie, D. S., 209 Ashley Ave., Charleston, S. C. 

Watson, Mrs. Carrie Syphax, D. S., Pub. Sch., 2214 F. St., N. W. Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Waugh, Miss Louise, Asst. Prof. H. Econ., Penn. State College, State Col- 
lege, Penn. 

Webster, Mrs. Grace H., Head D. S. Dept., 5405 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago. 
'Webster, Mrs. Sara, Matron Hospital for the Insane, Penetanguishene, 
Ontario, Canada. 

Weeks, Mrs. John R., 28 Lathrop Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. 

Weer, L. E., 711 E. 22nd St., Baltimore, Md. 

Wehlan, Bertha, D. S., D. S., 322 Mulberr>^ St., Scranton, Penn. 

Welch, Mi.ss Man,' E., Housekeeper, Oak BluflFs, Mass. 

Weld, Miss Emma S., Student, 3647 Rhodes Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Weld, Mrs. Lena Rowley, Sec. Housekeeper's Alliance, 1354 Monroe St., 
Washington, D. C. 

Wellman, Mabel T., 5854 Rosahe Court, Chicago, 111. 

Wells, Mrs. Ernest A., 2 Garden St., Hartford, Conn. 

Wells, Florence E., Supv. D. S., 1023 Madison St., Saginaw, W. S., Mich. 

W^est, Miss Clara Linforth, Prof. Soc. Eth., Carnegie Technical Schools, 
Pittsburg, Pa. 

Wheeler, Ruth, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Whitaker, Sarah B., 25 Henshaw Ave., Northampton, Mass. 

Whitaker, Mrs. Ahce E., H. Econ. Lect., 1404 Harvard St., N. W., Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Whitcomb, Harriet, Dietitian, Littauer Hospital, Gloversville, N. Y. 

Whitcomb, Frank H., Pub., Huntington Chambers, Boston, Mass. 



144 The Journal of Home Economic sT^ [[February 

White, Edna N., Asst. Prof. D. S., Hayes Hall. O. S. U., Columbus, Ohio. 

White, Miss Grace G., Prop. Laundry, 8 Flora St., Brookline, Mass. 

White, Elizabeth S., D. S., H. S., 524 Garfield Ave., Chicago, 111. 

White, Mrs. Mary A., Prop. Laundry, 319 Tappan St., Brookline, Mass. 

White, Mrs. S. D., Lewiston, Idaho. 

White, Hettie, D. S., Beaver, Utah. 

White, Dr. J. G., Supt. White Sanitorium, Freeport, 111. 

White, Miss Marian, D. S., McKtnley Man. Tr. Sch., Washington, D. C. 

Whittemore, Miss Margaret, Prin. Nor. Sch., Rock Hill, South Carolina. 

Whitney, J., D. S., Set. House, 237 East 104th St., New York City. 

Whittemore, Henr>% Head D. S. Dept., Norm. Sch., Framingham, Mass. 

Whitin, E. Stagg, Columbia University, New York City. 

Wile, Dr. Ira S., 2493 Broadway, New York City. 

Willard, Florence, D. S., H. Sch., 16 Mead Ave., Passaic, N. J. 

Williams, Mrs. Ada B., Supt. D. S., 3709 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Williams, Florence Marion, T. Cookery, 392 West Avenue, Rochester, N.Y. 

Williams, Margaret, D. S., 1447 Pacific St., Brooklvn, N. Y. 

Williams, Mrs. Marv- E.. Dir. D. S., Pub. Sch., 123 West 183rd St., New 

York City. 
Williams, Clara G., Supt. Sewing, 4th Ave. and Stevens St., Spokane, 

Wash. 
Willis, Miss Clara, T. Kansas State Ag. College, Manhattan, Kansas. 
Wilson, Miss Marcie, College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 
Wilson, Melissa, H. Econ., H. Sch., 651 Hinman Ave., Evanston, 111. 
Willett, Miss Ethel, Needham, Mass. 
Wilson, Lillian M., 236 Oxford St., Hartford, Conn. 
Wilson, Miss Marcie, College Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 
Winans, Katherine, 4425 Marmion Wa}^ Los Angeles, Cal. 
Winchell, Cora M.. Asst. D. S. Dept., T. C, 176 Elm Ave.. Mount Vernon, 

N.Y. 
Winchell, Miss Florence, D. A., Coll., 176 Elm Ave., Mount Vernon, N. Y. 
Winslow. Miss Corisande, Asst. Supt. Girls Clubs, 3709 Carnegie Ave., 

Cleveland, Ohio. 
Withers, Miss Frances S.. Newman Normal Training School, .New Orleans, 

La. 
Wood, Dr. Thomas D., Prof. Phys. Ed., Teachers College, New York City. 
Woolman, Mrs. Mary Schenck, Dir. D. A., Teachers College, New York City. 
Wright, Mrs. William S., Bethel, Conn. 

Wing, Mrs. Clifton E., Center St. cor. Boylston, St., Jamaica Plains, Mass. 
Women's College, Brown Univ.. 182 Meeting St., Providence, R. I. 
Weimer, Miss Cora Belle, 1230 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union, 39 Charles St., Boston, Mass. 
Widmer, Miss Marian, D. S., 605 W. 1 rth St., New York City. 
Wilson, Miss Mary, D. S.. The Salye at Surban PI. and Bf)ston Road, 

Brooklyn, N. Y. ' 
Wolcott, Miss Zoe, Care of Colorado Women's College, Denver, Colo. 
Wood. Miss Mae, El. Sch., 26 Waverly Place, Grand Rapids, Mich. 



'9ro] List of Members Home Economtcs Association ,45 

Wyman. Mary Louise. T. Cooking Pub Sch .n- vv . . . 

York City. ^' ^^^•' 5°5 VVest 122nd St.. New 

Wyckoff. Edith Lucille D ^ Vt-u- . r^ , 

Park W...Ve„Y:,k city ' '"' ^''- ""' ^'- ""« '''-• 

Whitmore Mrs. W. G.. Pres. H. Econf .4ss„., Valley Nebraska 
Woman s Club of Roland Park. Roland Park, Md 

Yale. Louise Pomeroy, D. S., 3848 Charlotte St. Kansas Citv 
Yenawm^ Ora G.. D. S., 6355 Ingleside, Chicag^, m"' '"''' 

Y:unt.'la^£..^rs.°rsr-^f---^^^^ 

pp ^-n!: 3';^^e;lr t^,f ■- ^~ — ■ - - 

Zurhorst. Miss Mary Arline. Prin. National Srh d' c; 

N. W., Washington. D. C. ''^''°"^1 Sch. D. S., 1754 & ,756 M. St 

Zuppann. C. A., 244 Turr^er St., Grand Rapids. Mich. 



THE 

Journal^/ Home Economics 

Vol. II. APRIL, 1910 No. 2 



SCHOOL FEEDING IN EUROPE. 

LoxnsE Stevens Bryant. 

In Charge of School Feeding Inquiry, Russell Sage Foundation. 

It has been said on creditable authority 1 that from 60,000 to 70,000 
children in New York City alone often arrive at school hungry and 
unfitted to do well the work required, and by another authority that 
in the same city 175,000 fail in their studies because they do not get 
enough of the right kind of food. The pitiful tragedy of attempting to 
educate children who are continuously himgry is so obvious as to need 
no discussion. 

As opposed to this picture, which is painted for us in lurid colors, 
we are told that "they do things better in Europe;" that there, in 
most of the large cities, (for example, in Paris), at the noon period, 
the children file in regular Hues by small ticket offices and to each is 
given a ticket. No one knows whether anyone else pays or what is 
paid for the ticket. Teachers and pupils alike secure these tickets, and 
sit down together to a modest, clean, well served, inexpensive lunch. 
We are informed that in consequence, the children progress better 
through the schools, and that there is none of the starvation which 
is pointed to on this side of the water. It is said further that this 
feeding of school children has no undesirable effects upon the parents, — 
that it does not make them feel less responsible for their children. 

We do not know to what extent these various statements are true. 
The first thing to do is to get at the truth, the real facts. Before 
undertaking school feeding on an extensive scale here in America, for 
example, we ought to know what the results of experience are under the 
various conditions which obtain in the different cities and countries of 
Europe where it has been long carried out. We need to know 
how the children are fed, what they are fed, whether it is done 
by philanthropic or state moneys. We need to know whether 
it is carried out by the school or other authorities. We need 



^Robert Hunter. 

149 



150 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

to know the effect of such feeding upon the family. We need to 
know what other attempts have been made to solve this difficulty 
aside from feeding children in school. The malnutrition of school 
children is obviously a part of the larger problem of poverty. We 
ought to know to what extent this fraction of the problem can be 
isolated and treated by the means proposed. This, in general, is the 
point of view from which our study has been made. The present 
article aims merely to give some idea of the extent of the movement in 
Europe and something of the character of its development. 

When, in 1905, England was facing the problem of national deteriora- 
tion, an aroused public demanded that the government should under- 
take to provide food for all school children as an immediate remedial 
measure. In order to find out to what extent other governments had 
assumed a similar responsibility, the English Board of Education made 
an inquiry concerning the methods adopted by great Continental and 
American cities for dealing with underfed children. The inquiry 
covered thirty-eight cities in thirteen countries. Of these, with the 
exception of the three American cities, every one reported organiza- 
tions of some kind for school feeding. Moreover, with a single excep- 
tion these organizations were either supported entirely or in part by 
municipal funds. 

Subsequent investigations showed that these cities were not excep- 
tions. The movement is national in scope in many of the great 
countries in Europe and many of the establishments are old. As far 
back as 1790, the city of Munich supported soup kitchens and hungry 
children were sent to them from the schools. About the middle of the 
19th century semi-ofl5cial societies were formed in a number of coun- 
tries for the purpose of encouraging school attendance. One of the 
most usual means adopted was the provision of meals free or at '. ost 
to the school children, and a great many organizations were started 
at this time. The small town of Freising in Germany has had school 
breakfasts for over fifty years. 

Perhaps the most striking single indication of the seriousness with 
which the matter is being attacked is that the central governments of 
Great Britain, Holland and Switzerland have passed laws with special 
reference to the provision of meals for school children. In Germany 
and Denmark, teachers, school doctors and social reformers are 
joining in a campaign for national legislation. 

In France while there is no national law with direct reference to 
school feeding there is a law compelling the establishment in all towns 



igio] School feeding in Europe 151 

of school funds (Caisses d'ficoles) which are designed to support 
what might be termed the extra-academic activities of the school, 
for example, vacation colonies, school excursions, school baths, and 
school restaurants. The school restaurants (Cantines Scolaires) are 
now found throughout France. As the French cantines are generally 
accepted as the models for school lunches we will begin our survey of 
the European system with them. 

France. — In 1871 the city of Angers in western France started 
"people's kitchens" in the public schools. From their inception up to 
the present time these kitchens have served mid-day meals to school 
children from November through May each year. The price of each 
meal is two cents in our money for all those who are able to pay, and it 
is given free to those who are unable to so so. The movement in 
Angers may be considered the true beginning of the work that now 
exists in France although there has been some provision for feeding 
school children ever since 1849 when the "Caisses d'ficoles" (school 
funds) were started in Paris. 

The movement spread rapidly until at the present time there are 
school restaurants of one type or another in almost every towTi and 
city in the republic. As we have said, there is no national law making 
their establishment compulsory, but the movement has simply devel- 
oped until it has now come to be regarded as an integral part of educa- 
tional work and providing it is almost as much a matter of course 
as erecting school buildings or engaging school teachers. 

In the smaller towns the work is often cooperative, the teacher, 
the parents, and the children all contributing something. The teacher 
gives his ser\dces, the children bring whatever food they can, the neces- 
sary additions are supplied from the public fund and the mid-day meal 
is prepared in which all share. 

Such cooperative work is possible only in the smaller towns. In the 
larger places regular school restaurants are supported largely or 
entirely from municipal fimds. These supply each day a meal of 
soup, meat, vegetables, and sometimes a httle dessert at cost prices. 
This varies from two to three cents per meal and provision is always 
made by which the children who are able to do so, pay, while those who 
cannot are fed at public expense. 

Paris is the only great city of the world which makes complete and 
adequate pro\4sion for the proper nourishment of all of its school 
children. The movement started in 1879. In 1881 it was made 
general throughout the city and a subsidy of $9,600 was voted to 



152 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

help defray the expenses. Since that time the subsidy has been 
greatly increased until now the city pays the entire cost of the school 
restaurant. The budget for 1909 included a subsidy of $210,000 for 
the support of school meals. This does not include the daily fee of 
twenty-five cents which is given to each teacher who supervises the 
children during the meal hour from 11:30 to 12:30 every noon. 

Each district administers its school restaurants independently as 
experience has proved that in this way the particular needs of each 
district can best be met. All of the children, rich and poor, are 
encouraged to eat together and there is no distinction made between 
those who pay and those who do not. A child who wishes to may 
bring his own meal with him and eat it with the other children who 
receive the lunch which is provided. 

To quote from the report of the Commissioner sent by the London 
Lancet to investigate this work, 

From the very first the greatest care has been taken not to allow any loss of 
dignity to arise from the free feeding. The fundamental principle of the whole 
management is the absolute innocence of the children. Their parents may be at. 
fault. If so, that is only the greater reason to shelter the children and to try to 
preserve in them that sense of self respert which may so easily be wrecked by 
their parents' bad conduct. 

To avoid any possibility of the children themselves knowing who 
pay and who do not the simple device is used of a small box ofl5ce 
through which each child goes to purchase his ticket. If he claims 
that he cannot pay the ticket is still given, but his name and address are 
taken and inquiries are made. Each case is carefully investigated. 
Where the parents are found able to pay they are compelled to do so, 
but where they are not, tickets are given to the child for as long a time 
as may be necessary. Various methods are used to determine whether 
or not the parents can pay. Sometimes the inquiry is made by the 
school principal, in other instances the parents request that the meals 
be provided and the case is investigated by the mayor of the district. 
If he gives his approval permission to receive free tickets is given at 
once. Otherwise a committee is authorized to investigate before 
decision. 

The presence of the teachers at the same tables with the children is 
an important feature of the work. It is reported that fully 90 per 
cent of the teachers use the cantines more or less regularly, although 
there is no compulsion in the matter. They do it on account of the 
cheapness and wholesome character of the meal. Each one goes 



ipio] School Feeding in Europe 153 

through the little box oflSce and secures his ticket in exactly the same 
manner as the most ragged urchin. Their presence at the tables 
results in practice in the most efficient sort of teaching in table manners. 

During the year 1908 Paris supported 353 school restaurants. These 
supplied meals to the pupils of 588 schools. The children who 
received the meals numbered 38,531. This is an average of 190 
children to each school restaurant and of 66 children from each 
school. The entire number of meals provided amounted to nearly 
eight milhon, or a Httle over two hundred meals for each child. This 
does not mean that each child was fed for two hundred days for in 
some of the districts Hght meals are given in the morning and after- 
noon as well as at noon. 

The meals vary greatly in cost in different sections of the city. 
In the ninth arrondisement the average net cost was just two cents per 
meal, while in the third it was slightly over six cents. The average 
cost was just under four cents, to be exact 3.8 cents. The price paid 
by the pupils who purchased their meals averaged three cents per meal. 
This, indeed, has come to be in Paris the standard price. In thirteen 
of the twenty districts it is the price which is regularly charged. In 
two districts the meal tickets cost two cents only, and in only one dis- 
trict does it rise as high in price as four cents. 

Germany. — We have already noted that school feeding had its 
beginning in Munich in 1790. At the present time it may fairly be 
said that the movement is national in scope, although there is as yet 
no State law regarding it. An investigation in 1909 showed that out 
of the 525 cities in Germany having more than ten thousand inhabi- 
tants 239 had some provision for meals at school. That is to say, there 
is school feeding in nearly one-half of the German cities. The reports 
from 189 cities showed that 43 had organizations supported entirely 
from public funds; in 68 others work was carried on by private socie- 
ties subsidized by the city; in the remaining 78 cases the work was 
carried on by private organizations, although in nearly every case the 
school authorities cooperated in a substantial way by furnishing coal, 
gas, the use of school premises, and clerical assistance. In these 189 
cities there are over iio,cxx) children receiving school meals. These 
constitute about 6.5 per cent of the entire school population in these 
cities. 

From these data we may summarize the German situation as 
follows: 

There is school feeding in about half of the German cities. In more 



1 54 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

than a third of them work is carried on by private organizations co- 
operating with the school authorities. In another third of the cases 
the work is done by private organizations receiving pubhc subsidies. 
In the remaining cities — somewhat less than a third — the work is 
done exclusively through municipal efifort. Between 6 and 7 per cent 
of all of the children in the schools receive meals. 

We have seen that in France the meal supplied is usually the mid- 
day lunch. In Germany the practice is to give breakfast at school 
instead. The work at Stuttgart may be regarded as typical of the 
better sort of organization. Here a breakfast of warm milk and a 
roll is served all the year round, at 7 a.m in summer time and at 
8 or S :3o in the winter. In each district there is one school with a kit- 
chen and dining hall and this central kitchen supplies all of the schools 
of that district. 

Parents who wish their children to receive the meals fill out appli- 
cation blanks stating among other things whether or not they wish to 
pay. Cases where free meals are requested are carefully investigated 
and if it is found that the parents are in genuine need their requests are 
granted. Coupons entitling the children to receive meals are issued in 
small booklets, six coupons costing a little less than eight cents. The 
coupons which are paid for have certain lines on them which are omitted 
on the free coupons. These minute differences' are kept a secret from 
the children who are unable to tell the difference between the two 
lands of coupons. The kitchens are regularly inspected and are kept 
in sanitary condition. 

At the present time there is a great awakening of interest in the whole 
problem of school feeding in Germany and a great amount of space in 
current educational publications is being devoted to these problems. 
Germany, moreover, is leading all other nations in scientific studies 
of school dietetics and trustworthy collection of data showing the 
results of school feeding. 

England. — The movement for school feeding in England became a 
national issue at the time of the Boer war when the startling fact was 
published that only two out of every five men who wished to be soldiers 
were found to be physically fit for military service. Investigations 
carried on by two national commissions, the Royal Commission on 
Physical Training, and the Committee on National Deterioration, 
showed a very wide spread condition of malnutrition. It was averred 
that this was one cause of the alarming degree of military unfitness. 
Moreover, it was a cause that might be directly attacked and a cam- 



1 9 1 o ] School feeding in Europe 155 

paign was begun by social and political reformers that resulted in the 
passage by Parliament of the Provision of Meals Act in 1906. 

Hov;ever, this was not the beginning of school feeding in England. 
It was simply its crystallization as a national issue. The need for 
some provision for the feeding of children at school had long been felt. 
The investigation by a government committee showed that in 1905 
there were 355 English organizations providing for school feeding 
in 146 cities and towns. But this voluntary service was found inade- 
quate for many reasons. In the first place, the funds dependent upon 
charitable impulse were insufiicient. They were often exhausted dur- 
ing the earlier winter months. Moreover, they were often inadequate 
to feed all of the necessitous children even during this short period. 
Then again the voluntary agencies had no authority to make the 
necessary investigations as to the ability of children to pay. Again it 
was generally agreed to be undesirable that the meals should be re- 
garded as charitable relief. 

A circular addressed by the English board of education to the local 
educational authorities giving them information and instructions con- 
cerning the Provision of Meals Act makes the following significant 
statement concerning the character and object of the law: 

The Act, which is purely permissive and imposes no duty where the local educa- 
tional authorities think it necessary to bring it into operation, is primarily of an 
educational character. Its object is to ensure that children attending public ele- 
mentary schools shall, so far as possible, be no longer prevented by an insufficiency 
of suitable food from profiting by the education offered in our schools, and it aims 
at securing that for this purpose suitable meals shall be available just as much for 
those whose parents are in a position to pay as for those to whom food must be 
given free of cost. 

The provisions of the act were generally adopted throughout Eng- 
land and Wales. In the spring of 1909 it was in operation in 134 dis- 
tricts out of a possible 327, and the number has materially increased 
since that time. The work has been broadened and has become more 
generally educational and more closely coordinated with medical 
inspection. 

The best practice in England, as in France, sanctions the giving of 
a lunch in the middle of the day rather than a breakfast in the morning. 

The administration of the school meals is generally given over to 
Children's Care Committees which are sub-committees of the educa- 
tional authorities. The Care Committees are composed of school 
inspectois, teachers, social workers, nurses, etc. 



156 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

In M?iy 1909 the London County Council established Children's 
Care Committees in connection with each one of the thousand public 
elementary schools in London, making a total of five thousand persons 
serving on these committees in that one city. A cabled press report 
from London in December 1909 showed that the work is growing by 
leaps and bounds : 

The London County Council found itself compelled yesterday to approve an 
extra expenditure of $125,000 for providing free two cent and three cent meals to 
necessitous school children whose parents are unable to feed them. This supple- 
mentary vote will bring the money expended for this purpose by the end of the 
financial year 1909-10, March 31, up to over $311,000 instead of $150,000 which it 
was estimated at the beginning of the year would be sufficient. 

The increase in the number of children needing this assistance has been marked. 
Five years ago some 5,000 were in this position, four years ago 6,000, a year ago 
35,000 and this year 47,000. The number of free meals supplied in 1908-9 was 
over 4,500,000 and this year it will be over 7,700,00. 

All parents whose children are fed by the County Council are informed by letter 
that the cost of the meals is charged against them and collected by law if they are 
found in a position to pay, but only some half dozen such prosecutions have been 
found necessary. 

The smaller towns have a simpler problem than London and many of 
them have worked out very efficient organizations. This is notably 
the case in Bradford, Manchester, and Bristol. In 1906 the city of 
Bradford appropriated $250 with which to carry on an experiment in 
school feeding. Forty children were chosen from the poorest class and 
weighed three times during five weeks. Then these same children 
were given breakfast and dinner from April 17 to July 24, 1907, holidays 
excepted, and weighed regularly during this time. During the same 
period forty "control" children of the same class were weighed and 
not fed and the results compared, or perhaps contrasted. It was 
found: — 

(i) That the "control" children dependent on home meals gained 
on the average one ounce a week — a yearly gain of three pounds 
and four ounces. 

(2) Children who were fed gained six ounces a week — a yearly 
gain of nineteen pounds and a half. 

(3) During a holiday of ten days the children who had been fed 
dropped a pound apiece in weight. 

(4) During this same holiday the control children freed from the 
strain of school work actually gained on the average one-half a pound 
apiece. 



igio] School Feeding in Europe 157 

At the conclusion of this experiment another still more extensive 
one was carried on and since then school feeding on an extensive 
scale has been regularly instituted. During 1909 an average of 747 
children were fed free daily while the total number of children dealt 
with came to something over 5,500. The school population of Brad- 
ford is about 47,000. Of these only about 200 paid for their meals, 
either wholly or in part. It is planned to extend this service so that 
all of the children who are able to pay may be accommodated. 

The food is prepared in a large central kitchen and is placed in great 
heat retaining vessels and carried by motor cars to the twenty school 
dining rooms in the different districts. The kitchen is fitted with the 
most modern equipment. There are large steam jacketed boilers 
with a capacity of 100 gallons each, large porcelain baths for washing 
vegetables, a machine for cutting vegetables, tools for paring and coring 
apples, and thousands of soup plates, dinner plates, forks and spoons. 
Finally there are aprons and sleeves for the waitresses and teachers. 
These are made in the sewing classes by the children who also mend 
them when necessary. 

The original cost for the equipment for supplying three thousand 
meals a day was $3,000. Last spring it was so enlarged, at an addi- 
tional cost of $17,000, that ten thousand meals could be prepared. 
This included the installation of new bakers' ovens in which the city 
will bake its own bread. These are heated by steam from the same 
boiler house that provides heat for one of the schools and warm water 
for the public baths. This arrangement will effect a great economy in 
running expenses. 

The dining halls are so arranged that the entire effect shall be edu- 
cative. They are painted and furnished in light colors, the tables are 
covered with white table cloths, and plants or flowers are provided. 
They accommodate about 125 children each. Teachers who volun- 
teer for the work but are paid a special fee for their services supervise 
the meals in all of the halls. There is one such teacher for about 
fifty children. Waitresses who serve the children are appointed 
from among the older children; sometimes they are girls from the 
secondary schools in the neighborhood. 

One account of the work in the Bradford schools closes with the 
following significant statement : 

The doctrine that child feeding would undermine parental responsibility has 
received a rude shock as scores of letters in our possession show that when circum- 
stances improve parents are the first to report this to the committee, are often most 



158 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

grateful for what has been done for them, and are anxious to make way for the 
children of those less fortunate than themselves. 

Holland. — The work of school feeding in Holland before 1892 was 
carried on by voluntary societies. At that time when the municipali- 
ties began to give their support, there were no fewer than fifty-three 
communities supplying meals. The law of 1900 enforces compulsory 
education in Holland and a section authorizes municipalities to pro- 
vide food and clothing for all needy school children whether in public 
or private schools. The object was to ensure school attendance. In 
the words of the royal decree of 1907 meals were to be given to chil- 
dren who are unable because of the lack of food and clothes to go 
regularly to school, or to those who probably would not continue to 
attend school regularly unless food and clothes are provided." 

The cost per meal is restricted to about one and a half cents. The 
organization is about the same as in the other countries mentioned. 
Amsterdam serves lunch and sometimes breakfast during the school 
year. About four thousand children are fed in the winter time. 

Refezione Scolastica in Italy. — San Remo was the first ItaHan city to 
have purely municipal provision for school feeding. This was started 
in 1896. There are no less than fifty towns in Italy which provide for 
school feeding. In more than half of the cases. the work is entirely 
municipal and in others it is carried on by private organizations wliich 
receive municipal subsidies. In all the work is regarded as distinctly 
educational and not as a charity. 

Dr. Tonsig of Padua was the first person to investigate the actual 
food value of the meals which were served. The estimates he made 
then in regard to the correct dietary standards for school children 
marked the beginning of an important kind of work that has since been 
taken up by school doctors in all countries. 

In Italy the school meals are attended by a larger percentage of 
children than in any other country. In some towns the percentage 
is as high as seventy-eight. Rome reports that fifty per cent of the 
children receive the meals and that ninety-five of these pay for them. 

Switzerland. — So far back as 1894 an investigation in Switzerland 
showed that from thirty to forty thousand school children were being 
supplied with meals. These children were in eleven thousand schools, 
or about 28 per cent of all the schools. They constituted between 7 and 
8 per cent of the entire number of school children. 

In 1903 a federal law was passed which included a section providing 
for "distribution of food and clothing to poor school children." In 



igio] School Feeding in Europe 159 

1906 permission was given to the cities to use state funds to help supply 
school meals. The report of a recent investigation reaches the con- 
clusion that there are about 50,000 who should be fed, or about 10 
per cent of the entire school population. The meal is generally the 
mid-day lunch. 

Other countries. — Nearly if not quite all of the other European coun- 
tries have taken some steps in the school feeding movement. Sys- 
tems more or less highly developed are found in Austria, Belgium, 
Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden, and there are beginnings 
also in Spain and Russia. 

Trend of Development. — There are certain general conclusions, both 
as to present scope and developing tendencies, which force themselves 
upon the attention of the student of the school feeding movement in 
Europe. In the first place the feeding of school children exists in 
practically all European countries and in many, if not most of them, it is 
national in scope. It is an old movement and in many places a 
thoroughly tried one. Its first beginnings date back more than a 
century, while during the past two decades its development has been 
increasingly rapid and consistent. So far as can be discovered there is 
no case of importance on record where it has been tried as an experi- 
ment and subsequently abandoned as impracticable or a failure. That 
it has commended itself both to the public and to the authorities seems 
conclusively demonstrated by its rapid increase and unbroken spread. 

The provisions for its support are becoming more and more general 
in scope and less and less dependence is being placed upon purely local 
initiative. As legislative enactments are being made there is an 
increasingly strong sentiment toward making them mandatory in char- 
acter, and as a corollary to this an increasingly lessened demand that 
such laws be purely permissive. 



SCHOOL LUiNCHES/ 
Ira S. Wile, M.D. 

The school lunch problem is not new, but has arisen whenever a state 
has legarded the children as its wards. In ancient Sparta, there was 
a most successful school lunch system at which the attendance was 
compulsory, and the food most trying, the better to develop Spartan 
character. 

The school limch I desire to discuss is the school lunch in the ele- 
mentary schools, the schools which in 1908 included 93.47 per cent of 
the 18,582,294 students in the United States. There is, therefore, 
abundant reason to consider their necessities. 

The majority of children in our elementary schools need the school 
lunch. Lunch counters are provided in countless secondary schools 
for those children who, economically, represent the best home condi- 
tions and as a whole by their presence at'a secondary school give evi- 
dence of at least sufficient food. In many kindergartens children 
bring a lunch of more or less food value that is there supplemented by 
milk. In schools for cripples, for tuberculous' children, for defec- 
tives, it has been deemed advisable to supply lunches. Is it not 
equally essential to furnish all children part of the day's food so as to 
be certain that there is some food supplied that will tend to prevent 
the development of the tuberculous conditions so largely responsible 
for our cripples? 

The true problem of the school lunch is not to relieve acute hunger 
or to satisfy the palate, but to relieve chronic malnutrition. It does 
not deal with the child who has no breakfast, or the child who bolts 
his food and runs to school, or the child who calmly munches a crust 
while sipping his lukewarm, oversteeped tea. It goes deeper into 
the social labyrinth and where it finds chronic undernourishment. 
Mr. Robert Hunter claims that "atleast3,3co,oooschool children under 
14 years of age are underfed in the United States. " Mr. John Spargo 
estimates that fully 2,000,000 children between the ages of 5 and 14 
years live in poverty. 



'An abridgement of a paper read October 30, IQ09, before the Home Economics 
Association of Greater New York. 



160 



19 1 o] School Lunches i6i 

Dr. Sill estimates that in Greater New York there are 555,525 
children in the elementary schools and he believes that 222,210 are 
ill nourished. He thinks there are "1472,895 illy nourished school 
children in the United States." Dr. MacMillan of Chicago found 
15.9 per cent of the kindergarten children physically below par, and 
estimated that 11 per cent of this impairment was due to underfeeding. 
Dr. Echholz estimates the number of underfed children in London to 
be 122,000. Dr. Mackenzie regards one-third of all the school children 
of Edinburgh as poorly nourished. Dr. Maxwell is reported as saying 
to the National Education Association in 1904 that there are 100,000. 
children unable to learn because of hunger. Drs. Frances Warner 
and Hack Tuke found 28.5 per cent of London school children suffering 
from deficient feeding. Dr. Lechstrecker in an examination of 10,707 
children in industrial schools in the state of New York found 9.32 per 
cent lacking in nourishment. 

What does all this underfeeding mean? It means that the school 
lunch problem reaches to the foundations of society. As in early times 
it was beheved necessary to immure a child in building a bridge that 
was to last for all time, so today society is trampling upon its own flesh 
and purchasing a doubtful progress by sacrificing the children. What 
is the problem of undernourishment? It is a malignant growth that has 
been thriving upon poor housing, crowded rooms, low wages, under- 
employment, alcohoHsm, poor hygiene, lack of sunlight, air, bathing, 
ignorance of food values, ignorance of the very laws of life and health. 
Acute hunger may force families to ask for aid in 60 per cent of the 
cases coming to organized societies, but chronic underfeeding takes 
its toll before the last straw breaks the back of pride and self respect. 

According to Dr. Underhill, twenty-two cents per man per day was 
in New York City in 1907 the minimum expenditure for food permitting 
a normal family of five to maintain physical efficiency. Today 
prices are higher. Chapin in his Standard of Living in New York 
City states that in families with an annual income of $4oo-$6oo, 76 
per cent are imderfed; for those receiving $5oo-$8oo, 32 per cent; 
$8oo-$9oo, 22 per cent;$90o-$iooo, 9per cent; while for those receiv- 
ing over $1000, the percentage is negligible. 

The special committee on the standard of hving appointed at the 
New York State Conference of Charities and Correction in 1907 
regarded $825, or $16 per week, as a conservative estimate of the 
amount necessary to maintain a fairly proper standard of living in 
the Borough of Manhattan. 



l62 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[April 



The effect of income on child growth is well shown by an analysis 
of the average height and weight of two groups of school children 
in Liverpool, one from a school in the wealthy district and another 
from a school in a district inhabited by the poor, as follows : 

Relative development of school children from wealthy and poor families. 



STATION OF 


AGE 7 


YEARS. 


AGE II YEARS. 


AGE 14 YEARS. 




Height. 


Weight. 


Height. 


Weight. 


Height. 


Weight. 


Wealth}^... 
Poor 


Ft. 
3.12 
3-8o 


lb. 

49 

43 


Ft. 

4-75 
4. 10 


lb. 
70 
53 


Ft. 

5-75 
4.70 


lb. 

94-33 
71.00 



Bowditch noted over 30 years ago that ''children of laboring classes 
inhabiting towns are at all ages decidedly shorter than the children 
of non-laboring classes attending public schools and universities, the 
difference attaining a maximum of over 4 in. at 13 years of age." 

Part of the origin of undernourishment lies in poverty. But poverty 
is not the whole cause. The New York Committee on Physical Wel- 
fare of School Children found plenty of physical defects among children 
of families possessing incomes above the $16 a week necessary to have 
a proper standard of living. 

The Department of Health examined 275,641 school children in the 
Borough of Manhattan and found only 5.8 per cent of malnutrition. 
Had full investigation been made I believe the percentage of malnutri- 
tion cases would have been 35 per cent. The problem, then, is not 
one limited to children of poor parentage. The poor physical condi- 
tion of the school child is but a reflection of home conditions. Under- 
nourishment should be prevented from the beginning of the child's 
life. Not alone the child at school — but the child just too young to 
go to school and the baby in arms must be regarded as a proper part 
of the school problem. To prepare a child for school should be the 
first interest of the school, worthy of careful consideration by edu- 
cators. 

"After bread, education," wrote Hubert Bland. I should like to 
alter this so as to include those families where the reUef question is 
not paramount: "With bread, education." That is basic. The 
school lunch problem is not in its essence a relief problem; it is an 
educational problem. In Paris the cantincs scolaires are part of an 
educational measure. One school lunch a day, however, will not solve 



^9iol School Lunches 163 

the question of feeding the children. At best, such a lunch can only 
be regarded as an additional meal supplementing the normal number 
a child requires or else it becomes a substitute for one of the home meals 
In either case upon the food value of the other meals depends whether 
or no the child is to be dwarfed mentaUy and physically. 

If it now takes nine and one-half years for children to do eight years 
work, as our schools are graded, what part does malnutrition play? 
Are school courses graded for the underfed,-for their limited mental 
capacity,— for their starved memories? What percentage of absences 
are due to malnutrition? Whac diseases find welcome resting places in 
undernourished frames? What irritability, dullness, misbehavior are 
grounded m chronic underfeeding? What laggards and dullards 
arise from a starved mentahty? What wastes of child lives, teachers' 
nerves, educational funds, parental hopes are due to malnutrition? 
The school must begin a campaign of educational economy by secur- 
ing a healthier and more receptive child before schooling begins. As 
Bacon states, " the brain is in some sort in the custody of the stomach " 
The school lunch must develop capable custodians of the brains and 
healthy protectors of the custodians. 

Intimately connected with the problem of lunches are many impor- 
tant subsidiary subjects. Table ethics, table manners, and conver- 
sation are worthy of school attention. At the New York Ethical 
Culture School the social value of the luncheon is cultivated. The 
feeling of democracy and equaHty can be easily fostered around the 
common table. Mr. Sidney Webb a few years ago advocated "an 
article m the educational code making obligatory in the time-table a 
new subject, viz: 12 to i p. m.. Table Manners (materials provided)." 
At the cantines scolaires the teachers give such instruction. In addi- 
tion to table manners one can teach the necessity of taking time to 
eat and to masticate, not overlooking the needs of urging dental inspec- 
tion. There is the splendid opportunity of teaching domestic science, 
hygiene of kitchen and dining room, food values and food economics. 
These subjects should not be left to normal schools where the need 
of school lunches is based on convenience rather than on underfeeding 
—and judging from the menus of many of these lunch counters, the 
question of education has been entirely overlooked. There wHl be 
less running home, boltmg a bite of poorly prepared food and rushing 
back to school hungry. There will be less spending of pennies for 
loUypops, buns, pickles, and ice cream, and indirectly fewer absences 
because of the results of frequent dietary indiscretions. 



164 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

There will be better air than can be had in many of the houses. 
Children will have a meal free from scolding, hustling, bolting, and 
will return to school studies with a mind prepared for work without 
a preliminary restless fifteen minutes. School lunches may be " inade- 
quate to correct physical conditions that home and street environ- 
ment produce," but they are "a means of insuring punctual attend- 
ance or better attention, " and form a mode of reaching out toward the 
problems of the home and the street. 

From the nutrition and educational standpoint the choosing of the 
school lunch is most important. Dr. C. F. Langworthy^ has found 
that the average adult of the United States is daily supplied with 100 
gm. protein, 150 gm. fat, and 350 gm. carbohydrate, with an energy 
value of 3000 calories. He estimates that children between the ages 
of 6 and 9 years require 0.5 of this amount, and those from 10 to 12 
years 0.6 to 0.7. Regarding the average age of the school child as 
10 years, this is equivalent to approximately 60 gm. protein and 
1800 calories of energy. I believe that at least one-fourth of the total 
daily needs or about 450 calories should be furnished by the school 
lunch. 

But there are many other considerations entering into the question. 
The food must be easily digested as well as appetizing and palatable. 
It may vary greatly in its component nutrients but must always sup- 
ply an abundance of the various mineral constituents deemed especi- 
ally valuable for the development of children, particularly lime, iron, 
and phosphorus. Quantitative variations must be considered as well 
as qualitative. The sensation of fullness is desired by the child, 
whatever the sufficiency in calories. There must be seasonal varia- 
tions, certain foods being best relished in warm or cold weather. 
Local conditions must always be considered very carefully; the domi- 
nant nationality, the prevailing religion, both bringing up food prob- 
lems. In general Italians like thick soups; Irish children prefer thin 
soup. Italians wish vegetables; Irish want meat. For Catholic 
children, on Friday, meals without meat must be provided. For 
Jewish children the laws of Kosher must be observed. 

From the practical point of view one must consider the cost of the 
foods, the ease and rapidity of preparation, the difficulties of service, 
the amount of waste. From the educational point, the lunch should 
contain foods seldom or never supplied in the house. Tastes should 
be cultivated for nourishing foods that are cheap and easily piepared. 

^ U- S. Dept. Agr. Yearbook, 1907, pp. 361-378. 



igio] School Lunches 165 

The problem of the management of the Imiches is intricate. It is 
practically impossible to have a system of individual dishes, unless the 
dishes are all numbered and a number given to each child. To have 
each child responsible for the cleanliness of his own dishes is desirable 
but more easily said than done. The tickets foi the lunch should be of 
metal and sterilized daily. 

The meal having been provided the question arises, who is to eat? 
How may the underfed be determined? How can the poor, who are 
unable to pay for the lunch, secure it? How may the poverty-stricken 
be found? Which children require the lunches because no one is at 
home to supply the food at noon? The variations in children must 
be studied because the presence of a circus parade may diminish 
attendance at the lunch. A rainy day will cause a rush for the lunch, 
while hohday seasons cause a decrease in the attendance. Even the 
bell of the hokey-pokey man will call many from the good food to the 
second rate ice cream. If the menus are known to the youngsters in 
advance, some meals will attract a throng and others will entice few 
to the lunch table. Experience has revealed these as important con- 
ditions to be studied and mastered. 

In working out a system to take care of all possible conditions the 
following points must be discussed: Should school lunches be com- 
pulsory and free, or available for a nominal price? Should the lunches 
be prepared at the school or at a central kitchen? Should the chil- 
dren prepare the food or should a chef be employed? Should the 
domestic science classes prepare the lunches? Should school lunches 
be supplied by the municipality through the department of education? 
Should the municipality supply the education and the children furnish 
the food? Should private philanthropy pay deficits? Should school 
lunches be self-supporting? 

Compulsory attendance at a school lunch insures the underfed 
children receiving one good meal. It does not, however, have any 
effect upon the other meals at home nor does it correct to any great 
extent underfeeding. It is far from proved that school lunches are 
the essential part of a system to better child health. To make a school 
lunch available for all children at a nominal price does not insure the 
lunches going to those children most requiring them. 

I do not believe anyone questions that the feeding of children is a 
function of the home. To make lunches free and compulsory is to 
lessen the responsibility of the home toward the child, and school 



i66 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

lunches should not lower parental responsibility but enhance it. It is 
most true that "mothers will naturally take a greater interest in the 
welfare of their children if held responsible for proper food and proper 
home surroundings than if not reminded of their responsibilities." 

Nor should school lunches degenerate into food doles. The family 
that cannot afford to pay i cent to 3 cents daily for the lunch of a child 
requires more help than merely to supply the child with a few bites 
to eat. The family that cannot live up to its responsibility is worthy 
of investigation by a society deaUng with the important problems of 
family relief. The low price school lunch should be made available 
to all children. Parents should voluntarily allow their children to 
avail themselves of the school lunches not as a means of shirking respon- 
sibility but as an evidence of their appreciation of the valuable lessons 
to be gained for the children as well as the adequate supply of food at 
a low cost. 

By making the lunches available it becomes essential to reach back 
into the homes. There must be close cooperation between the home 
and the school whose common thought is child welfare. When 
social and economic conditions allow, when a sufficient knowledge of 
dietetics and child hygiene has permeated the home, and when the 
school curricula are adjusted to the physical capabihties of the chil- 
dren there will no longer be a need of school lunches. 

Again, school lunches should not be interpreted simply as a relief 
problem, as that is far from the function. Unless intimately con- 
nected with the educational problem they lose much of their value. 
They should not discriminate, as when offered to the poor, the cripples, 
and the defectives. If they are of value to children they should be 
made available for all. 

The question as to whether lunches should be prepared at the indi- 
vidual schools or at a central kitchen brings up an important matter 
of policy. If lunches are to be provided simply as a matter of relief, 
by relief societies or philanthropic organizations, the funds should be 
administered as economically as possible and a central kitchen becomes 
almost a necessity. If they are a part of an educational plan, then 
they should by all means and at any expense be provided for and pre- 
pared at the individual schools and this irrespective of who is to pay 
for the lunch. Obviously, if the lunches are to be of service in teach- 
ing children and their mothers, their preparation at school becomes an 
essential part of the plan. 

Should the children prepare the meals or should a cook be employed? 



1910] School Lunches 167 

From an educational point of view, there is but one answer. Let the 
children prepare the meals, set the table, etc., as in the elementary 
schools of Stockholm and at the special class schools in New York. 
The ideal way would be to have each grade prepare its own meals as 
this would allow a normal and gradual extension of training in all that 
pertains to food hygiene. To employ a cook is to add the greatest 
single item of expense in preparing lunches, particularly if no central 
kitchen is to be used. 

Should school limches be supphed by the municipality as part of an 
educational plan? Yes. I do not mean that free lunches should be 
distributed. School lunches should be available for all children at a 
nominal cost. Those children whose parents are unable to pay for the 
lunches in full should be permitted to pay for them in part, and the 
children with very poor parents should have the lunches furnished at 
the expense of the city. It is cheaper to feed a child in school than in 
a hospital or in a prison. 

As part of an educational propaganda in this country private philan- 
thropy has equipped and maintained school lunches and paid the 
deficits when they occurred. At present those private organizations 
that are prepared to serve lunches should be encouraged to continue 
their work and offer lunches to a larger number of children. That 
school lunches can be self-supporting is beyond question, but not to 
cover rent, initial expense for equipment, gas and service, together 
with the salary of a teacher to develop the educational work and the 
salary of a needed investigator capable of ascertaining home condi- 
tions and able to bring about a better cooperation between the home 
and the school. In fact if a school lunch is self-supporting, it is Hkely 
to represent merely an eflSicient rehef organization divested of most of 
its constructive features. The larger the number of children fed, the 
less will be the deficit per capita, for the initial expense, cost of gas, etc., 
will be fairly constant whether 50 or 150 lunches are to be prepared. 

The most important factor for the successful management of school 
lunches is the active cooperation of the grade teachers and principals 
with the domestic science teachers, the home visitors, the medical 
inspectors, and the school nurses, so that no underfed, undernourished, 
physically weak or mentally backward child may be overlooked. 
Personally I beheve that each school should have a committee of 
mothers brought into close relation with the school lunch problem as 
an excellent aid in developing methods for the successful carrying out 
of plans for home education through this means. 



i68 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Should the school lunch supply the whole noon meal or is it more 
desirable to supplement the lunch the child brings from home? Is 
it desirable to have a definite lunch merely of food available at a lunch 
counter according to the palate and inclination of the children? I do 
not believe that the lunch counter alone has a place in the elementary 
school unless children's taste can be so guided as to create a demand 
for more nutritious and less indigestible foods. It is very doubtful 
that this can be accomplished in the lower grades. The lunch box from 
home should always be encouraged. The school responsibility lies 
in educating the home so that the food provided shall be of a character 
suitable to supply appropriate nourishment for physical and mental 
development. To have the school lunch supply warm food and have 
the child's lunch box furnish the rest of the nutrients would be excel- 
lent. If the child would otherwise go home to a sparse and poorly 
prepared lunch it would be far better to encourage lunching at school 
imtil the home standard has been properly raised. 

The main difficulties of home dietaries are their one-sidedness, 
excessive food waste, poor cooking, use of expensive foods in propor- 
tion to income, and lack of nourishment supplied in proportion to the 
food cost. The educational purpose of the school lunches must be to 
offset and overcome these deficiencies. As stated by Atwater and 
Bryant.^ "It is quite evident that what is needed among the families 
more than anything else is instruction in the way to make the little 
they have go the farthest." 

School can develop a new order of home-makers by teaching the 
children. A course in foods, using the lunch as a syllabus, would 
result in the children learning much of future benefit to the commun- 
ity. Through the children knowledge of food values, cost, economy, 
and cooking would be introduced into their homes. By securing 
cooperation of mothers, by giving informal talks to mothers' meetings, 
by having the home visitor ally school and home more closely, the 
home would be bettered and made a safer home for children. 

We shall know whether the work has been done well by the effects 
upon the childen, the school and the homes. The benefits accruing 
to the children will be better physical development, gain in weight, 
lessened frequency of digestive disturbances, better manners, increased 
useful knowledge, less mental backwardness, better appreciation, less 
worry, less illness. The school will gain by more regular attendance, 

'U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Experiment Stations, Bull. ii6, p. 78. 



igio] School Lunches 169 

fewer absences, better attention, less loss of time from the wearisome 
repetition necessary with dullards, fewer absences on the part of 
teachers owing to wTecked nerves. The school as a whole will also 
gain immeasurably from the closer cooperation with and understand- 
ing of the homes. The homes will be helped through the increase of 
their responsibility toward the children. Home standards will be 
raised along with the standard of living. Home health will be bettered 
and corresponding economic gains will arise. Not only saving in 
expenses, but a prodigious saving in losses now due to malnutrition, 
disease, and distress may be the result of an intelligent health propa- 
ganda based upon a system of school lunchesJ 

The school lunch, then, should be merely a form of educational 
cooperation allowing home and school to see each other more closely 
and more clearly and permitting both to work together in harmony 
for the best development of their common charge — the children. 

In the discussion which followed Dr. Wile's paper, he was asked to 
make a brief statement as to what had been actually accomplished, 
and he stated that, after numerous difficulties had been encountered, 
it was finally decided to get all the expert opinions and the best 
judgment thereon that could be obtained. A committee had been 
formed, consisting of the President of the Home Economics Associa- 
tion of Greater New York, various members of the Faculty of Colum- 
bia University, various people interested in social or other phases of 
school work, the supplying of funds, the general lunch problem, and 
others. A new committee had organized, the New York School 
Lunch Committee, and was carefully studying all phases of the prob- 
lem with a view to its complete solution. The hardest point is appar- 
ently how to reach the children who actually need the school lunch, 
and a sub-committee has been appointed on this phase. Underfed 
children, those suffering from malnutrition, and of dull mental capaci- 
ties, are to be made the subject of special inquiry. The cooperation 
of school principals is to be sought, and a mothers' committee has 
been appointed in one school to enhst the cooperation of parents. 



A STUDY OF THE UNDER-NOURISHED SCHOOL 
CHILDREN OF BALTIMORE. 

M. L. White, 

Special Agent of the Baltimore Charity Organization Society. 

One winter, a few years go, my window looked out upon a mission 
building in East London, where free breakfasts were provided for the 
school children of the neighborhood. Every morning my attention 
was attracted by the children in line, pushing and fighting among 
themselves, as they waited for the opening of the doors, the stronger, 
selfish, late arrivals striving in the scramble to take the places of any 
weak, early comers. Thinly clad, many of them, with foot coverings 
of the poorest kind, they stood in the rain and mud, or in the sharp 
cold winds for half an hour, or sometimes much longer. It was not 
an inspiring sight, and when, led by my interest in this daily morning 
scene, I visited some of these distribution centers the inside view was 
no more reassuring. It was always with a feehng of satisfaction that 
we were doing no such thing at home that I looked on at what was so 
clearly a wasteful attempt to remedy the situation, unsatisfactory in 
results, and in many respects harmful. 

When, therefore, in 1907 the question of the underfed school child 
was agitated in Baltimore I was keenly interested. Less impulsive 
for once than our English cousins we decided to make an investiga- 
tion as to the nature and extent of the trouble before determining 
how to meet the situation. It was thought best to take some one 
school in a poor part of the city and make a careful and thorough 
inquiry into the home conditions of the children of the school who 
were suffering from malnutrition. 

The school selected was one where the medical inspector had 
reported unusually bad conditions, and where, too, the teachers were 
not only much exercised about these same conditions, but were ready 
to lend their assistance in every possible way to the inquiry. Just 
a word at the outset about some of the conditions prevailing in the 
school and the neighborhood from which the children are drawn. 
While located in a poor part of the city there are no doubt poorer 
sections, if one has the question of money in mind, but in ignorance, 

170 



19 1 o] Under-nourished School Children 171 

in lack of conformity to any American standard of living, in unsani- 
tary methods and conditions, in absence of ideals and ideas, in short, 
in real wretchedness this is, probably, as bad as any. Russian, Polish, 
Austrian, German and Finnish Jews made up sixty-five per cent of 
the children in the school with Italians next in number and Lithuan- 
ians following. Only fifteen per cent were American children. 

The English language is not therefore the language of their homes 
— in fact, in the greater number of homes visited the services of an 
interpreter were required. This was, indeed, a part of Baltimore 
as separate and distinct from North Baltimore as if it were another 
city — a part of Baltimore too, that in the olden days was the home of 
well to do, comfortable citizens. The spacious old houses have now 
been converted into tenements, every floor occupied by one or more 
famflies and the modem conveniences found in the tenements of today 
entirely lacking. A bath room, for instance, was found only in a very 
few homes, chiefly those of Americans. The work was begun with a 
list of those children, representing a hundred families, who were appar- 
ently suffering from malnutrition, which had been made up by the 
medical examiner and the teachers. Visits to the homes of the 
children in question and careful inquiry into the financial affairs of 
the families resulted in reporting a few families, but not over a half 
dozen, to the Federated Charities as needing assistance. In all other 
cases the great need was for higher standards of living and more 
intelligence in the use of the resources at hand. Many of the children 
were suffering from adenoids, enlarged tonsils, bad eyes and teeth, 
but I felt that the many bad conditions that are described in this 
paper were far more important in their effect on health. 

It was found that a large number of the children were addicted to 
the candy habit. They spent all of their pennies, and these amounted 
to a surprising number in the day, for cheap candy and then, as the 
parents complained, ate Httle or nothing at meals. Many of the 
children reported as coming to school without breakfast, were foimd 
to be in the habit of spending their evenings on the street, at moving 
picture shows, or other places of entertainment; in consequence of 
which they went to bed at a late hour and arose in the morning only 
just in time to get to school. 

In this connection it seems advisable to speak of the respect accorded 
to their children by the foreign parents who are dependent on their 
help as interpreters for all intercourse with the people of this new 
country to which they have come. This dependence results in most 



172 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

cases in weakening the authority and restraining influence of the 
parent. 

As a contributing cause to the poor physical condition of the children 
in this school I am inclined to give third place to the unsanitary condi- 
tions under which many of them lived. When the question was put, 
as it always was "Do you sleep with the windows open?" the reply, 
almost invariably in a tone of surprise and disapproval, was "Oh, no, 
indeed." Where two rooms (or in some cases only one) constitute 
the living quarters, they serve as kitchen, dining-room, sitting-room 
and bed-room. A bed always stands in one comer, and a family of 
from five to eight people spend a part of the day and some of them the 
night in air that is only changed by the occasional opening and clos- 
ing of the door leading into the hall. Is it any wonder that the child 
from such a home is pale and listless and puny? 

A few children, and those almost exclusively m the American fami- 
lies, were found to be underfed, or improperly fed. The greater num- 
ber of these children were the children of mothers who had spent their 
girlhood in factories. They had had, in consequence, little or no 
training to prepare them for their work as wives and mothers, but were 
women who had had to "pick up" a knowledge of cooking when the 
call came for it, who had never been taught how to buy the best and 
most economical foods or learned the many simple, but useful points, 
that count in good management of a home. 

Another small class, almost exclusively foreign, in their efforts to 
save, to get ahead in the world, are denying themselves and their 
families the proper living conditions ; they are crowded into miserable 
rooms, eating the cheapest food and wearing the poorest clothing. I 
recall an Italian family of this class, "a particularly poor family need- 
ing special attention, " the teacher had reported. I climbed a ricket}', 
dark stairway to the dingy room that they called home and found 
the mother stitching on trousers, too busy in her efforts to make every 
minute count to give any time to the care of home and children. 
The room was dirty in the extreme, the children in like condition and 
most scantily clad. The younger ones, with a pot of macaroni on a 
chair between them, were drawing out the pieces with their lingers 
and eating greedily. A poor, sickly looking baby was in the care of 
the older children. Fuller inquiry into the affairs of this family re\ealcd 
the fact that they had several hundred dollars saved. This was the 
most extreme case I found but it was not an isolated one. Other 
foreign families represented in this school had saved to good purpose, 



iQio] Under-nourished School Children i73 

owned their homes, or had a business of their own while at the same 
time providing well for the daily needs of the family. 

In a few cases where there had been illness, or the mother was a 
widow or the earnings of the father were squandered, there was no 
money to buy proper food and these families were turned over to the 
Federated Charities, but certainly free breakfasts or lunches for this 
small class would not furnish adequate relief. 

I have come to believe that the children suffering from malnutri- 
tion in the different schools in Baltimore and perhaps in other cities 
belong to one of the classes enumerated in the study of conditions in 
this one school. The number in the different classes may vary in the 
different schools as different nationalities are represented but they 
are pretty surely all to be found among them. What then, is the way 
to meet this question of the underfed school chHd? How solve the 
problem that is growing while we consider it? To those who are 
working among these people there seems to be only one answer. 
After a careful study of conditions the cure is to be found in personal 
service appUed patiently and persistently in teaching the parents 
better standards of living and how to attain them with the means at 
hand. Cooking classes have done much for the mothers who before 
marriage had no opportunity to learn to cook. Many foreign mothers 
do not need to be taught this art but they still need what the friendly 
visitor can bring them, better adaptation to conditions in this new 
land, more intelligent control of their children. 



EXPERIMENTS WITH SCHOOL LUNCHES IN 
NEW YORY CITY/ 

Mabel H. Kittredge, 

of the New York School Lunch Committee. 

There is universal interest and universal efifort to find a solution to 
the problem of school lunches. It is important, first of all, that we 
catch a glimpse of this attitude of mind. The public, the world over, 
seems to have come to the conclusion that if the State is to educate 
children (and even the most conservative communities now admit that 
it must do so) it is mere waste of money to try to educate a half starved 
child. 

Let me quote from the several writers on this subject. Miss 
Carohne L. Himt in The Daily Meals of School Children^ asks the 
question whether free meals may not be a necessary means of securing 
that equahty of opportimity for which our public school system stands, 
when reports from all the larger cities show that children are coming 
to school hungry or so underfed as to be imable to take full advantage 
of the instruction offered them. LilUan Wald, in Charities and Com- 
mons, writes: "The school lunch is not a departure from the principle 
of the obUgation assumed by educational authorities toward the child, 
but an intensive apphcation of the measures adopted for the physical 
nurture of the child, to the end of securing in adult years the highest 
efficiency of the citizen." If food were looked upon as vitally con 
nected with health and efficiency, instead of as a means of gratifying 
the palate, we should think more about the desirability of imparting 
mental and physical health to the next generation, and less about 
pauperizing the parent. 

Superintendent Maxwell says that there are 17,769 children in New 
York City suffering from the horrors of malnutrition. "How ridicu- 
lous," he adds, "to compel children to attend school when the hungry 
stomach will not permit them to learn." Dr. Falkner believes it is 

' Read October 30, 1909, before the Home Economics Association of Greater 
New York. 
* U. S. Bur. Education, Bull. 3, 1909. 

174 



iQio] School Lunches in New York City 175 

this army of backward pupils who are holding back the efficiency of 
our public schools. 

For six years in Birmingham, England, school children have been 
fed, first by the generosity of one man, later by the municipality 
cooperating with charitable organizations. In London, in 1908, 
definite steps were taken toward making an annual appropriation 
from county fimds for the purpose of feeding underfed children. 

Cantines in Paris are attached to all public schools, and in other 
cities in France this is also true. Germany raises money by private 
enterprise, supplemented by municipal funds, to feed her school 
children. In Denmark, in Norway and Sweden, in Spain, in Switzer- 
land, and in Italy, luncheons are served to the school children, and 
the expense is divided between charitable organizations, the munici- 
paUty, and the children themselves. In Belgium, Brussels and Hol- 
land meals are served free to all underfed school children, and all this 
because of a new attitude of mind toward food in its relation to edu- 
cation which looks toward efficiency in the child and later in the 
adult. 

If we agree then that in some way underfed children must be nour- 
ished, if a larger part of the money spent on our public schools is not 
to be wasted, naturally we ask how is this feeding to be done? This 
our experiments have not as yet shown, but four ways are being tried 
as follows: First, where the expense is borne by the State, assisted by 
charitable organizations, many children being fed free: second, where 
the school board, charitable associations and the parent cooperate; 
third, where the municipality feeds only the underfed children; 
fourth, where the parents of the children bear the expense when able, 
charity assisting when necessary. 

The fourth method we are trying here in New York City, in Public 
Schools Nos. 51 on West 44th Street, and 21 on Mott Street. Such 
children as are able to pay are charged three cents a meal, while those 
known to be unable to pay are paid for by outside contributions, any 
deficit being also covered by outside help. 

The first luncheon was served in Public School No. 51, on November 
23, 1908, and has been repeated every school day since. The amoimt 
of food given to each child each day has contained what is estimated 
as one-third of the required daily nourishment. The menu or bill 
of fare in this school, where the pupils are mostly of Irish parentage, 
was for one week as follows : Monday, one-third qt. vegetable soup 
with meat stock and two slices of bread; Tuesday, one-third qt. pea 



176 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

soup and bread; Wednesday, rice pudding with milk and two slices 
of bread; Thursday, cracked wheat and raisins and bread; Friday, 
cocoa and a cheese sandwich. 

During the 141 school days occurring between the beginning of the 
experiment and the end of the school year, a total of 19,013 lunches were 
paid for at three cents per day. A total of 1136 lunches were paid 
for by outside charity, and 846 lunches were furnished children free 
as payment for their services. The average number fed daily was 149 
out of a total of 2000 children in the school. The total expense of 
food and ser\dce (other than administrative service) was $715.87, the 
total income from sale of tickets (those paid for by the children and 
charity) $706.84, leaving a deficit of but $9.03. It cost, then, in this 
school, 3.4 cents a day to feed a child and the income per child per day 
was 3.3 cents. As 1.8 cents of this daily cost per child was for service, 
it is probable that an increase of attendance would make the luncheons 
self-supporting. 

On March 15, 1909, luncheon was first served in School No. 21, at 
Mott and Spring streets. In this school are 2100 pupils, all Italians. 
An Italian cook was found to be necessary, and only food conforming 
to ItaUan customs was supplied. The menu for one week, for example, 
was as follows: Minestra or cabbage stew, made with oil and garlic; 
lima beans (dried) and postu; rice and peas, cooked with oil or lard; 
lentils; cocoa and meat and potato sandwich; macaroni; and in addi- 
tion each day two slices of Italian bread. Since the Italian custom is 
to eat very little breakfast, but a hearty meal at noon and at night, 
the Italian child requires one-half the daily nourishment at each of 
these meals. He eats few sweets between meals and drinks little tea 
as compared with the Irish child, and comes to the noon luncheon 
with a good healthy appetite. 

In the 65 days between March 15 and June 25, 1909, 8837 lunches 
were paid for by the children. One hundred lunches were paid for by 
charity and 586 lunches were given free of charge in return for services. 
The daily average attendance was 145 and the cost 4.4 cents per lunch 
per child. There was a deficit of $66.78 in the 65 days. 

We ha ve found, then, that while the total daily attendance in these 
two schools was 4100 pupils, the average daily attendance at luncheon 
has been but 293. Another discouraging fact is that the children 
buying the noon meal are not, as a rule, the underfed children. We 
have also found that little help is to be gained by visiting the parents 
of the children that are suffering from malnutrition. The poverty, 



19 lo] School Lunches in New York City 177 

ignorance or indifference that has been the reason for the child's 
physical state cannot be done away with so easily. The difficulties 
in the way seem to be, first, lack of authority to feed a child at school, 
even when medical inspection has proved that that child needs a noon- 
day meal. Probably, too, this authority will never be gained with 
pay luncheons here in America, Second,we have as yet found no way to 
prevent a child from spending his luncheon money for candy, so 
that we must constantly cater to the child's whims in order to have 
the lunch counter receive the three cents rather than the candy store, 
though the child's taste is not always in accord with the most nourish- 
ing food at the least price. It is our experience that if the Itahan boy 
wants twice as much macaroni as can be cooked for three cents, 01 
more than is necessary for his needs, and does not get it. he 
goes out and buys pickles. If the Irish child who likes thin, watery 
soup of Httle nutritive value finds barley or rice in his soup, he leaves 
the soup uneaten and stays away on the following day. 

Has the school luncheon thus far succeeded? Not from the stand- 
points of business or the health of the underfed child. It does not 
pay expenses and the children who most need the lunch do not get it. 
Still the numbers patronizing it are increasing every day; the children 
are growing to like the food that is good for them, and the day seems 
nearer when a way will be found of helping underfed children whose 
parents are able to pay for a three-cent meal, but who do not now take 
advantage of the school lunch. 

This, then , is the plain story of what has been done thus far here in 
New York City to promote the school luncheon problem. It is not a 
record of great achievement, but the tale of an experiment in what 
the future may show to be the right direction. The conditions in 
free America are so vastly different from those in foreign lands, where 
municipal regulation almost seems to have taken the place of divine 
Providence, that we must consider the feeding of school children a 
problem yet to be solved. 



REPORT OF THE PENNY LUNCHES SERVED BY THE 
STARR CENTRE ASSOCIATION, PHILADELPHIA. 

Alice C. BouGHTON, Superintendent. 

The penny lunches served by the Starr Centre are of necessity 
restricted in character, for the variety of foods that can be prepared 
and served at a school without profit or loss is limited. It is a penny 
lunch which is needed in many schools of the slum districts, where 
numbers of children have but a penny to spend. 

Five elementary schools are being srrved with the lunches — one 
colored, one Itahan, one Jewish and two special schools, the attend- 
ance on the latter being made up of truant, backward and incorrigible 
boys. The equipment, management and serving of the lunches is 
very simple; the general arrangement is the same in all. 

The lunches are under the care of a supervisor, a domestic science 
graduate, whose duties are to prepare the weekly menu and the recipes 
to be used; to investigate the source of milk and food supplies, secur- 
ing special prices when possible; and to oversee the practical work 
by visiting the schools as often as is necessary to keep them up to the 
standard. She receives at the end of each week a memorandum 
from each school of the character and number of lunches sold, and at 
the end of the month a balance statement, for, since the aim of the 
Starr Centre is to give a few cents' worth of food at cost, the super- 
visor must keep in close touch with the work. 

There is a woman in charge of the preparation and serving of the 
lunches m each school. She does the buying, pays all bills, and 
receives the children's money. 

In the elementary schools the lunches are served during the morn- 
ing recess; in the special schools at the morning recess and at noon, 
since the children are not dismissed until 2 o'clock. Each day there 
is one hot dish, either cocoa, rice pudding, bean soup, creamed hommy , 
or macaroni with cheese. Twice a week there is stewed fruit, apricots, 
prunes, peaches, apples, or cherries, either alone or with half a shredded 
wheat biscuit. Graham wafers, milk lunch, coffee cakes, and glazed 
buns are served daily, as is also fresh fruit in season. 

178 



iQio] Penny Lunches Served by Starr Centre 179 

In general, the portion served for one cent is, for the liquid and 
cooked foods, one cup (one-sixth quart). Another cent will pur- 
chase one apple, one orange, one banana, or a proportionate quan- 
tity of other fruits, four graham wafers, or one coffee cake or one 
like. In this connection it is interesting to note that the energy 
value of one portion of the various foods supplied has close Hmits, 
ranging, except for the fruits, from 124 to 164 calories per portion. 

The cost of equipping the schools and maintaining the lunches is 
met by the Starr Centre from other funds so that all money received 
from the children is returned in food value. On the 60,000 lunches 
sold year before last, there was a profit of $3.45- Last year nearly 
go,ooo lunches were sold with still less profit. 

The need for the lunches is so apparent that it seems hardly worth 
while to dwell long upon it. The parents are working people whose 
occupations frequently call them out before the children are up; conse- 
quently the children have to shift for themselves, and it often happens 
that they have no breakfast, or that the pennies left them are spent 
for cinnamon buns, taffy-on-a-stick, or like "dainties. " The Starr 
Centre entered this field to study these conditions and if possible to 
alleviate them, by substituting clean, wholesome food for that offered 
by the street vender, and to gain an entrance into the homes of the 
children so that harmful conditions might be relieved. 

To carry out this plan it was found necessary to engage the services 
of a penny lunch visitor who was put in touch with the underfed 
children in one school through the assistance of the medical inspector 
and the school nurse. She has just begun her investigations in the 
homes of these children, but already some interesting facts are coming 
to the surface, for instance, cases where there are four well fed and one 
underfed child in the same family. Obviously it is not poverty nor 
lack of food which keeps that child back, but some pecuharity of his 
physique which the mother has not discovered or not known how to 
remedy. It seems probable that there are many more just such cases, 
where nothing but the actual personal knowledge of the home condi- 
tions in the case of the individual child can enable that child to be 
intelligently helped and permanently benefitted. Of course, the work 
of the visitor is not strictly luncheon work, but the best public service 
can be rendered only when the lunch is made the excuse for gaining 
access to the home to remedy conditions there, so that with the child 
properly fed both at home and at school we may very materially 
lessen the number of under nourished children in this city. 



i8o 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[April 



In the collection of the data a card filing system is used. A speci- 
men blank card is given below: 



IK 

1- 




1 




t 
























< 


1 


1 




















1 1 


o 


1 


1 




















1 


en 
CO 










UJ 
CO 

3 














o < 




O 




u 

s 










o 

X 


















o 

5 




O 
























z 




9 




< 




















UJ 




o 




z 
o 






















z 


o 

z 


CO 


o 


















o 
z 


Z 

a 


e 


o 

5 
z 
o 


< 

< 
UJ 

a. 
a 


8 

cc 


-i 
< 
o 

00 

> 
I 




- i 








j 






S 


u 


^ 


o 


< 


z 


a 
>• 

CD 
O 




a, Ul 

UJ C 










05 














u 






00 


CO 






z 














Ul 

z 




UJ 




o 


a: 






UJ 


















»- 




(C 


< 






(C 




1 








z 




< 




o 


u 

IT 




















< 

X 




o 




^ 






0. 
X 
«0 
(C 

o 














Oi 








« 


o 


CO 

UJK 
Q2 




^j U) 








I 
o 


1 












?5 




ntu 








z 
o 




So 

llj cc 

.^1 












Jo. 


O UJ 


a 


1- 
z 
ul 

s 
»- 
<r 
O 

a 

o 














is: 


^:1 


r> 






zl 1 


< < 

UJ 

a I 
o 












1 


_ 21 1 


s 
z 
o 


coa 






:i2 

|i 

-8 














1- 
< 

Q. 
O 

o 
o 


UJ 1 






^ 


^ 


(n 


z 






3 


o ^ 


o 

a: 

I 




z 
o 














z 
o 


z 3 
i «? 






" UJ 




o 


















z 


-^ 


£ 




Z 














< 






O 






^§ 














o 




Ul 






< 




< 
a. 

o 
o 
o 






o 
















^z 


o 




1 




Ul 

»- 
< 


^UJ 

xu. Z 
^O o 

I 










UJ 

O 
< 








































1- 












z 














> 


< 












UJ 














-i 


»- 


Q 




UJ 






a: 














z 
< 


tn 


Ul 




s 






a 














I <■ 


Z 


at 


< 






^ 














" t 


O Q 


Z 


z 






I 
















^ 5 


P i" 


< 








o 














z 


= 2 


CO t 1- 


Z 


t; 






















-^ ff 


uJ CO Z 






<0 


K 


iil 


a 

UJ 














CO 

o: 


> £ 


o > t 


-i 


■" 


w 




u. 


X 
< 


r 




X 

1- 
o 














UJ 

X 
1- 

o 


CD 


I < oe 
o u. ►- 





Note— Through the courtesy of the board of health a special medical in- 
spection for nutrition was made of the children in one school, nutrition not 
being ordinarily considered by the medical inspector when he visits the schools. 



BOSTON HIGH SCHOOL LUNCHES. 
Mrs. Mary H. Moran. 
Director of the New England Kitchen. 

The story of the beginnmg of lunches in the high schools of Boston 
is the story of the beginning of the school lunch movement in America 
In 1894 an agitation which had begun some time earher, under the 
leadership of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, resulted in the passage of an 
order by the Boston School Board to the effect " that only such food 
as was approved" by them ''should be sold in the city school houses. " 
Mrs. Richards' interest had been aroused by a recognition of the edu- 
cational opportunities that lay in the serving of properly prepared 
food, as well as the possible danger that lurked in the food which the 
children were purchasing from the corner groceries, push carts and in 
one or two instances from stands of "goodies" installed in the school 
buildings by the janitors. As a matter of fact, it was the business 
enterprise shown in these last instances that brought most forcibly 
before the school board and other interested members of the com- 
munity the need of imiform lunch facilities in the city's high schools 
and of proper supervision to hold the lunches to a good standard. 

By the plan finally adopted, the lunches were prepared under the 
supervision of Mrs. Richards at the New England Kitchen. From 
this point the "finished product" was distributed to nine high schools 
where counters and simple equipment for reheating and serving were 
installed at the expense of the city. With the exception of fuel, some 
janitor service, and the renewal of stationary equipment, the work 
was not further subsidized by the city. The New England Kitchen 
owners assumed all financial responsibiHty, including the initial cost 
of equipment, etc. The selling prices were low but it was planned 
from the start to put the enterprise on a business basis to the extent 
of making the receipts cover all expenses. The menus were simple 
and fell within such limitations as were imposed upon the scheme by 
the system of preparation at a central plant and transportation to the 
several distributing centers, but all dishes were made as nourishing 
as possible, the recipes being carefully worked out, under Mrs. Rich- 
ards' supervision, with this end in view. 

This, practically, was the organization under which the enterprise 
was carried on for thirteen years, an enterprise admirably conducted 



181 



1 82 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

from the point of view of science, education and public spirit, and 
which undoubtedly inspired and influenced the spread of the school 
lunch movement throughout the country. 

With the taking over of the New England Kitchen in 1907, the 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union became sponsor for the 
school luncheon. By an agreement with the school committee, the 
lunches are provided at cost and the work is under the general super- 
vision of^ an advisory committee on school lunches, made up of 
three representatives of the Union and three high school head masters 
elected annually by the Association of Head Masters of Boston High 
and Latin Schools. With this exception, the present plan of organiza- 
tion is practically the same as the original one, although the increased 
volume of business has been in proportion to the growth of the city's 
high schools. Today luncheon for upwards of four thousand children 
is being distributed through fifteen schools, situated within a radius 
of five miles from the kitchen. The problem of providing for the smaller 
outlying schools, where the patronage is small and the cost of transpor- 
tation large, is met by applying against the deficit at these points the 
surplus from the central schools where the larger numbers fed, 
decrease in cost of transportation, etc., lower the per capita cost. 
'This is one illustraton of the benefit that accrues through the cen- 
tralized system that makes possible uniform service in every district, 
of the city. 

An actual menu selected at random from the menus for a week 
follows: 

MENU, Boston High Schools, February 11, igio. 

Tomato bisque soup with two soda crackers ;c. 

Cocoa with whipped cream and two graham crackers SC. 

Sliced ham, egg or lettuce sandwich (large) 5c. 

American cheese or jam sandwich (small) i, 3c.; 2, 5c. 

Crust sandwich, two with milk or three without 5c. 

White or graham bread and butter sandwich (large) i, 3c.; 2, sc. 

Buttered date buns i, 3c.; 2, 5c. 

Coffee rolls i, 3c.; 2, 5c. 

Fish hash 5c. 

*Milk with any two-for-sc. article 5c. 

Vegetable salad SC. 

Cup custard 5c. 

Stewed apricots, whipped cream 5c. 

Plain frosted cake or gingerbread i , 3c. ; 2, 5c. 

Oranges and bananas i, 3c.; 2, 50 



iQio] Boston High School Lunches 183 

Macaroon ice cream cc. 

Salted peanuts ec. 

Molasses popcorn cq. 

Sweet chocolate (6 tablets) cq. 

Units of measure per order as follows: Milk and soup 4I orders to the quart; vege- 
table dishes 4 orders to the quart; meat and fish 5 orders to the quart; Jellies and 
puddings 6 orders to the quart and stewed fruits and salads 8 orders to the quart. 

*Much use is made of this opportunity for selection. 

With the exception of popcorn, crackers, chocolate tablets and ice 
cream, everything served, including bread, is cooked at the New 
England Kitchen. The supplies are bought with those used in the 
Union's lunch department — an arrangement that makes the cost of 
raw material lower than otherwise would be possible; the workers are 
on a maximum eight hour day and come under the "Union's" stand- 
ard of wages, vacation allowance, etc. — a standard that is equal to 
what holds in the best restaurants in Boston. As to standards of 
cleanliness, it was learned recently that the Board of Health records 
show the New England Kitchen bakery to be the "best ol its kind 
in the city." 

Particular attention has been given to the milk supply for the 
lunches. Through the cooperation of Mrs. Charlotte Barrell Ware, 
well known in Massachusetts as owner of the " Warelands" farm and 
dairy, the milk is drawn from a tuberculin-tested herd in a dairy in 
which first class sanitary conditions are maintained under Mrs. 
Ware's immediate supervision. This means an expensive milk supply 
when the cost of service and transportation is added and the milk is 
sold at a financial loss. 

The packing of three to four thousand lunches daily, in a space of 
three hours, calls for the closest kind of organization of time and 
effort. The average daily output includes 100 quarts soup, 200 
quarts cocoa, 1300 sandwiches, 200 buns, 1000 coffee rolls, 100 loaves 
cake, 200 cup custards, 100 quarts ice cream, 500 orders of "special" 
hot dishes (macaroni and cheese, beef stew, fish hash, etc.) and 200 
orders of "special" dessert (jelly, pudding, stewed fruit, etc.) 

Transportation is in the main by express; in three instances the 
lunches are sent by messenger via trolleys. The express companies 
return the "empties" from the nearby schools daily, together with 
the left-over food. 



1 84 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Lunch room quarters are provided in each school, equipped with 
serving counter, gas stove, sink, and in a few instances with a portable 
icebox. In one lunch room there is a sanitary drinking fountain. The 
type and adequacy of counters and equipment, together with the loca- 
tion and furnishings of the lunch rooms, vary greatly. Boston, like 
most large cities in the East, has the problem of congestion in the 
central schools to face, but, w^hile the conditions in the older schools 
are far from satisfactory, the appreciation by the school authorities 
of the value of proper lunch facilities is shown in the splendid accom- 
modations provided in the newer schools. 

The method of serving is practically the same in all the schools. 
Paper checks, which are used only once, are sold by student cashiers. 
The menu is posted on blackboards and the patrons are served from 
the counters, which in the larger schools are divided into two or even 
three serving centers. As the average recess period is only twenty- 
five minutes, emphasis must be placed on expeditiousness. On one 
occasion three hundred children were served in six minutes. 

The organization and administration of this work, carried on as it is 
on a basis of close cooperation between a public and a private insti- 
tution with a common purpose — education — has large social signifi- 
cance, a significance that is equally strong from the view point of 
industrial and of social economy in relation to public work. In these 
days of social and industrial unrest, such examples of the utilization 
of organized private interest and efficient service for the public good, 
have peculiar value and seem to point the way to a hopeful line of 
effort toward the solution of some of our social problems. By main- 
taining this basis of cooperation, particularly at the points of contact 
with pupils, teachers and masters, it is possible to turn another valu- 
able supply of interest and enthusiasm into effort for the common 
good. A recent experiment in a few of the schools in the formation 
of local committees of teachers and pupils with certain duties and 
powers in connection with the management of the lunch rooms, has 
met with sufficient support and interest to justify an extension of 
the plan and seems to hold promise for some effective work later. By 
means of such interest, new avenues into the field of school lunch work 
will open which heretofore have been closed because of lack of strong 
public opinion. Use of the lunch room plants in connection with the 
courses in chemistry, hygiene, domestic science and decorative art 
would certainly make for effective results in practical work, while a 
utilization of the possibilities for aesthetic and social training in con- 
nection with the lunch room would enlarge the field for cultural work. 



SCHOOL DINNERS IN LONDON SCHOOLS. 

Gwendolyn Stewart. 

The problem of providing school dinners in the London County 
council schools of London and throughout England, is one of the live 
questions of England. If it were a problem merely of providing din- 
ners for all the children it might be less perplexing. But the English 
fear to relieve the parents of any further responsibility in the care of 
their children. In some schools, therefore, the children are divided 
into two classes, the paying and the non-paying or "necessitous" 
children. At a general meeting of the Board of Managers and the 
teachers the various cases are gone over and the merits of each class 
decided. A two pence dinner is provided for both classes. 

It may be of interest to describe how these two dinners are pro- 
vided in one group of London schools. The dinner for the paying 
children, about fifty at present, is provided in the school containing 
the domestic economy center. The food is prepared by the cookery 
classes which meet, for periods of three hours, each morning and 
afternoon. On the day visited, a meat dish had been thus prepared 
the preceding afternoon. In the morning of the day itself, the cookery 
class had a lesson on bread-making but "between times" they pre- 
pared milk puddings and potatoes. 

The advantage of this method is that the girls in the cookery class 
each prepare a dish of some size which they can easily repeat in their 
own homes. The disadvantage is that they do not necessarily taste 
what they have prepared, and a more grave consideration, that they 
spend considerable time ia doing mere routine work. 

This dinner is served by the caretaker and his assistants. The 
assembly hall is converted into a dining-hall, for the moment, by 
means of trestle tables and benches. 

The dinner for the non-paying or "necessitous" children, of whom 
there are nearly four hundred, is prepared by a stafif of regular employ- 
ees. The kitchen and scullery in the basement of the house used 
for the housewifery center is utilized for this purpose and the dinner 
is served in a mission hall across the street. The wife of the minister 

185 



i86 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

in charge of the mission is in charge of the dinners and she has various 
voluntary helpers who come in during the dinner to assist in keeping 
order and in giving personal attention to the comfort of the children. 
On the day of my visit a visiting nurse was there, who gives up 
part of her noon hour to watch over the smallest girls. 

Before the children begin, grace is said and, as soon as one table 
is ready to leave, "return thanks" are given. As the children enter 
and leave the room a pleasant "good morning, miss" is said to those 
ladies near the door. 

The menu for the week for these "necessitous" children is as fol- 
lows: Monday — Irish stew, baked currant pudding; Tuesday — ^pea 
soup, baked jam roll; Wednesday — shepherd's pie, boiled currant 
pudding; Thursday — minced meat and potatoes, plain suet pudding; 
Friday — "toad in the hole" (meat in batter). 

The food is placed on the plates ready i,o be eaten. One large slice 
of bread is served to each pupil at each dinner. 

At another cookery center, the food cooked by the pupils suppHed 
the dinners of twenty "necessitous" children. Here the white cloths 
were neatly laid on the desks, with white-metal spoons and forks. 
At least two courses were always served, and more if the supply war- 
ranted. The cookery instructor personally superintended every 
lunch. In this way she lost the opportunity of rest during the noon 
hour, but did so wilhngly in order that her center might be a success. 

In a third cookery center visited, the pupils prepared food for fifty 
children which was carried by the caretaker to a mission hall nearby. 
The instructor here felt that the work of the center was really improved 
by the undertaking of this practical problem. She felt sure that the 
children lost nothing of value in time and experience, but, on the other 
hand, gained in earnestness and enthusiasm as well as a keener appr»- 
ciation of the value of the work of the class room. The lunch prepared 
on the day visited consisted of "toad in the hole," potatoes and suet 
dumplings, of which each child had made five. Fourteen children 
were in the class. 

In still another group of schools, the lunch was provided for in a 
mission hall, but a man was in charge, with fourteen helpers. The 
dining tables were neatly laid with white cloths, flowers, soup plates 
and spoons. Grace and "return thanks" were given by the children. 
The order of the meals was soup with bread, twice a week; Irish stew, 
twice a week; and currant suet pudding, once a week. Two or three 
helpings to each child were allowed. The food, steaming hot from 



igio] School Dinners in London Schools 187 

the kettles, was served from three side tables. The children, selected 
by the care committee, generally numbered about three hundred, 
although sometimes as many as four hundred were fed. The cost 
of feeding them averaged two pence (or four cents) per child. 

This account can not be considered as in any way at all comprehen- 
sive as to the general method of providing dinners to the school children 
of London. It is simply an account of the effort on the part of the 
board of managers of some groups of schools to provide the poor 
children with a good dinner. 

Formerly, at the first group, as at others, the dinners were provided 
by a catering company, but this proved so extremely unsatisfactory, 
both as to the quality of the food and method of service, that this 
group gave it up and tried the more personal effort already de- 
scribed. 

There is a feeling on the part of some of the managers that it would 
be far better not to divide the children according to the welfare of the 
parents, but to provide the dinner at each school for all, irrespective 
of pecuniary condition. 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE BIBLIOGRAPHY OF 
FEEDING CHILDREN. 

The following list of titles of recent work is designed to supple- 
ment the bibliographical data included in Miss Himt's^ Daily Meals 
for School Children summarized in an earUer number of this 
Journal.^ 

Some Common Errors in the Diet and General Hygiene of Children. A. F. 
Voelcker. {Brit. Med. Jour., 1907, No. 2404, pp. 181-185.) 

Improper Feeding of Cardiff Children. {Brit. Med. Jour., 1907, No. 2404, pp. 
226, 227.) 

A Plea for the Use of Oatmeal in the Dietary of Children. C. Watson. {Brit. 
Med. Jour., 1907, No. 2417, pp. 985, 986, figs. 2.) 

The Nourishment of Youths of Both Sexes in the Family and in Educational 
Institutions. P. Legendre. {Rev. Soc. Sci. Eyg. Aliment., 3 (1906), No. 3, pp. 450- 
468.) 

A School Luncheon. A. L. Benedict. {Dietet. and Eyg. Gaz., 23 (1907), No. 
7, p. 404.) 

How a Five-cent Lunch is Cooked and Served at the Honolulu Normal School. 
Marion Bell. {Boston Cooking-School Mag., 12 (1908), No. 6, pp. 292, 293.) 

School Lunches. {Ann. Rpt. Women's Ed. and Indus. Union, 29 (1908), pp. 34, 
3S-) 



1 88 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Metabolism Experiments with 32 Children 3 to 6 Years Old. E. Miiller. {Bio- 
chem. Ztschr., 5 (1907), No. 2-4, pp. 143-303, tables 18.) 

Some Figures [Regarding the Nutritive Value and Cost of Food served in a Stu- 
dent Boarding Club]. Agnes Hunt. (///. Agr., 12 (1908), No. 5, pp. 146-148.) 

The Provision of Meals for School Children. R. H. Crowley. {Pub. Health 
[London], 20 (1908), No. 5, pp. 325-33S, chart.) 

Maintenance Ration at Different Ages. E. Maurel. {Rev. Soc. Sci. Hyg. 
Ailment., 3 (1906), No. 5, pp. 763-854.) 

Metabolism Experiments on the Protein Requirement of the Child. H. 
Lungwitz. (Stoffwechselversuche Weber den Eiweissbedarf des Kindes. Berlin 
and Halle, 1908, pp. 82; rev. in Brit. Med. Jour., 1908, No. 2489, p. 747.) 

The Feeding of School Children. {Pub. Health [London] 22 (1908), No. 3, 
pp. 97, 98.) 

The School Children's Lunch-Room. {Charities and Commons, 20 (1908), No. 
12, pp. 400-402.) 

Improved Meals of School Children in Charlottenburg. Seydel. {Arch. Volks- 
wohlfahrt, 2 (1909), No. 4, pp. 227-231.) 

A Study of Malnutrition in the School Child. F M. Sill. {Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assoc, 52 (1909), No. 25, pp. 1981-1985.) 

The Effect of Age and Size upon the Respiratory Exchange of Infants. A. 
Schlossmann and H. Murchhauser. {Biochem. Ztschr., 18 (1909), No. 6, pp. 499- 

505-) 

Duration of Life and its Relation to Growth and to Nutrition. M . Rubner. (Das 
Problem der Lebensdauer und seine Beziehungen zu Wachstum und Ernahrung, 
Munich, 1908; also Arch. Hyg., 66 (1908), Nos. 1-2, p. 127. Sitzber. K. Preuss. 
Akad. Wiss., 1908, II, p. 32.) 

1 U. S. Bur. Education, Bull. 1909, No. 3. 

2 Jour. Home Economics, i (1909) No. 4, p. 363. 



ECONOMY OF MATERIALS IN DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
TEACHING: THE SCHOOL LUNCH/ 

TEACHERS COLLEGE, NEW YORK CITY. 
May B. Van Arsdale. 

I am asked to speak particularly of the "utilization of cooked material "—one 
phase of the economy of materials in domestic science teaching which we are con- 
sidering in our classes in foods and cookery at Teachers' College — so I will simply 
relate the results of our experiments during the semester. 

In one of our more advanced classes we were particularly opposed to the idea of 
working with the divided recipe . It was thought that each student— having passed 
through the elementary work— needed much practice in handling materials in 
quantities at least as large as the family recipe. Naturally each student in a class 
of thirty could not be supphed with any such quantity of material vmless some 
avenue could be found for its utilization. As we were v/orking on the sugars at the 
time, we planned to make our candy in large quantities and sell it. Each student 
made one or two full recipes, the odds and ends were used for tasting and the most 
perfect products were put on sale, with the result that we realized much more than 
enough to pay for all the raw materials used in furnishing practice and experience 
for the students. 

Our next utiUzable product was marmalade. This we made as a class exercise, 
participated in by two divisions, one taking up the work where the other had left 
ofif. After each student had been supplied with the usual quantity for tasting we 
had remaining some forty large jars and one hundred and twenty-five small glasses. 
We had no trouble in disposing of these at a sale for a reasonable price, but a 
good profit. 

Another class — one of our smaller sections at the time — wished to make custards 
in family quantities if they could be disposed of. We found a market for sixty-six 
of these in the Horace Mann lunch room. We found a demand there also for all 
the cookies we could supply as well as for two dozen sponge cakes and about three 
hundred Parker House rolls. Consequently each student had opportimities for 
making all of these things in much larger quantities than she would otherwise have 
been justified in using. By this time we were asked to fill orders for cakes, cookies, 
etc.; but these we refused unless the work could be made of educational value to 
the student. We kept a list of the topics on which we found each student most 
deficient. When an order for sponge cake was received (it was not solicited) it 
was accepted provisionally, and the students who had asked for more practice in 

' A symposium chiefly based on papers presented at a sectional meeting of the 
Boston Convention of the American Home Economics Association. 

189 



190 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

that line were given the opportunity to try again. The experiment justified itself- 
When Thanksgiving time came, we were naturally in some of our classes working 
on poultr>'. A request came from another department of the college that we roast 
two extra chickens and a turkey. The filling of this order gave our students addi- 
tional practice, for, after using one fowl for demonstration purposes, the others were 
turned over to a small division for group work. While one of our classes was doing 
breads, a request came that we furnish two himdred buns for a college function. 
This order was readily turned into a class exercise — otherwise we would not have 
considered it at all. 

Toward Christmas we decided to utilize in a Christmas sale the available work of 
all the classes. One section furnished fruit cake, plimi puddings, and candy; 
another cookies; and still another mince meat and marmalades. 

So far the experiment has proceeded. We hope to continue it after the holidays, 
utilizing the results of our institutional cookery at the lunch room and dormitory, 
and possibly for a luncheon in our own table service laboratory. 

In conducting the work along these lines we feel that the advantages to the stu- 
dents have been numerous. For one thing, the economic aspect has been continu- 
ally in mind. The students have calculated the cost of the recipe, the cost of the 
yield, the cost per dozen, the cost of the fuel, the reasonable percentage to be charged 
to equipment, the reasonable profit, etc. Our sale price has been compared with 
the regular market price, and reasons for diflFerences noted. Another advantage 
to the student in this method of treating the subject lies in the incentive furnished 
for good workmanship. Nothing can be accepted as a salable product which is 
not of a high standard of excellence and which does not creditably represent the 
class work. It also does away with the idea that everything one cooks is one's 
own, and furnishes the higher motive of doing oneself credit by cooking to please 
someone else. 

The handling of material in larger quantities has everything in its favor, for the 
conditions are in every respect more normal. Under ordinary conditions this can- 
not be justified, on account of the expense, unless an avenue for its disposal can be 
found. If the returns from the sale of such products do nothing but cover the 
increased cost of the larger quantities of raw material, it has justified itself in fur- 
nishing larger experience to the student — but if it could be shown that from the 
sale of such cooked materials, a course goes far toward paying for itself, this would 
be an argument for a reduced laboratory fee, which would prove an added advantage 
to the student. 

KANSAS STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE. 
Mrs. Mary Pierce Van Zile. 

I do not claim originality for the plan of work adopted at the Kansas State Agri- 
cultural College. That it is practical I can assure you, for the plan adopted five 
years ago has been followed with satisfaction ever since, although so many changes 
have been made that at present it would scarcely be recognized as the original. 
We still see imperfections, and are gradually trying to eliminate them. 

All girls taking the domestic science and art course, which includes go per cent of 
all the girls who graduate from our college, are at some time during their course 



igio] The School Lunch 191 

given foiur weeks practical training in housekeeping. The enrollment of the college 
is 525, and with such large numbers we must necessarily shift the girls at the end of 
the four weeks. To make this possible, we have in our beautiful new building, rooms 
especially arranged for this purpose. They consist of one large practice dining 
room, 40 X 30 feet with eight small kitchens opening off from it. The furniture of 
the dining room is such as would be found in any dining room. Each kitchen is 
equipped with necessary cooking utensils, china, silver and linen for a family of four. 
This equipment has been carefully selected, the aim being to have such things as will 
teach the correct table service, and at the same time have nothing that the aver- 
age home may not have. The girls are given charge of these kitchens and assigned 
the duty of preparing and serving meals. Each girl is given a stated sum of money 
($4 per week) with which she must meet the expenses (laundry and gas excepted) of 
serving five meals to four persons. It is really remarkable how great pride and 
what great rivalry there are among the girls to see who can serve the best meals for 
their $4, and excellent results follow. One of the girls is housekeeper, and it is her 
duty to plan, with the teachers, the meals that are to be served, and also to do the 
marketing. Staple articles are sold by the school to the girls at market prices, but 
all of the fresh meats, fruits, etc., they buy at the markets. 

The meals consist of one formal five course dinner, one three course dinner and 
three luncheons. They are served to faculty members who come regularly and are 
glad to pay for the privilege. The meals are all served at noon. Besides meeting 
the convenience of the guests, this enables the girls to work on schedule time. They 
must plan menus, do their own marketing, prepare and serve the meal and wash the 
dishes, and leave the kitchen in order for the next day. They work in groups of 
four, one being housekeeper, another waitress, a third cook, and the fourth assis- 
tant cook. At the end of each week an exchange of duties takes place and at the end 
of four weeks these girls take up another line of work and four other girls are assigned 
to the kitchen. 

We must therefore serve these meals six months out of every school year in order 
to give every girl the opportunity of doing this part of our work. 

An accurate account is kept of the material used and afterwards the nutritive ratio 
and calorifit value of each meal is computed. This is chiefly of value to teach the 
method of computation, for with the time at our disposal it is an impossibility to 
keep an accvurate account of the wastes. We do feel, however, that the training 
received in these computations is of direct advantage in their course in dietetics 
which comes later. 

This housekeeping course also furnishes the means of appl)ang principles and les- 
sons taught in an earlier course in color and design. Place or menu cards are used 
at every meal and the girls are responsible for making them. Very often some- 
thing really artistic and beautiful results from their efforts. 

We are willing to recommend this method as one way of giving good practical 
training in housekeeping, with practically no expense to the state. The course, as 
will be noted, includes planning menus, marketing, preparation and serving, includ- 
ing ways of using leftovers, keeping accounts, and general care of the kitchen and 
dining room. 

I might also speak briefly of my experience in Chicago of utilizing the cooked 
materials from class work by selling them at a school lunch counter. The school was 
so situated that the students came long distances by trolley and could not well go 



192 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

home for lunch. To meet the demand of the parents to make it possible for the 
students to obtain a warm lunch at the building, the board established a cafeteria 
lunch room. It was in the charge of a trained woman who had the entire re- 
sponsibiUty of preparation and service, but the domestic science classes were 
frequently called on to help. The plan adopted was, briefly stated, as follows: 
At the close of each week I gave to the woman in charge my outline for the 
following week's work. She looked it over, and wherever any article to be pre- 
pared could be utilized at the counter, the classes made sufliciently large quan- 
tities to meet the demand. The plan worked well and while not nearly all of the 
expense of the department was met in this way, it was a help towards it. I do 
not know that I should recommend the scheme, because it has its drawbacks, but 
it might serve as a suggestion to some one who has the problem to meet. 

MACDONALD INSTITUTE, GUELPH, ONTARIO. 

Mary Urie Watson. 

Macdonald Institute offers a short course of three months, without entrance 
examinations or certificates. The majority of the students taking this course go 
back to their own homes to put their knowledge into practice. The work is individ- 
ual, though the class is large, and every effort is made to let each girl carry out the 
practical work of the 48 cookery lessons on quantities sufficient for a small 
family. 

This means a large amount of material, but the expense is greatly lessened through 
the cooperation of the housekeeper of Macdonald Hall, the women's residence. The 
cookery instructor makes out her plans, carries them to the housekeeper and inquires 
if the cooked dishes can be utilized. If so, the housekeeper of Macdonald Hall 
delivers the raw materials to the class-room and the teacher is responsible for the 
delivery of the cooked dishes to Macdonald Hall. 

In this way the foodstuffs are utilized as far as possible without subordinating 
either the students to the daily needs of Macdonald Hall or Macdonald Hall to the 
class-room requirements. It requires the interested cooperation of the house- 
keeper, but the plan works satisfactorily. 

HEBREW TECHNICAL SCHOOL, NEW YORK CITY. 

Anna P. Hutchins. 

At the Hebrew Technical School for girls in New York City, the teachers of the 
school are served a luncheon which has been prepared, in the main, by a class which 
comes to the kitchen for a forty-five minute period previous to noon; but, in so far 
as possible, the work of the regular cooking classes is also used for this purpose. 

An example or two will probably make this clearer. Rice which was cooked by 
one of the classes was kept hot in the fireless cooker from 10:15 until 1 2 o'clock when 
it was served as a vegetable for lunch. Again chocolate cornstarch pudding was put 
into individual molds and served the next day for dessert. Baking powder biscuits, 
muffins, cakes, etc., are all kept and used in the same manner. 

The questions now arise: "How does this lower the expense? And what is the 



igio] The School Lunch 193 

effect on the girls, and upon the work by this method of procedure?" In answer to 
the first question I would say that each teacher pays 1 5 cents for her luncheon which 
buys the material used in the classes in preparing the luncheons. It is only those 
lessons, the product of which cannot be utilized in this way, that are paid for by the 
school; for instance such a lesson as that of omelet making. 

The jellies, jams, preserves, etc., made in the cooking classes are afterwards sold 
to pupils, teachers or patrons of the school at a figure that covers the expense of 
materials used. There is always a surplus from the luncheons which goes toward 
covering the expense of breakage and other incidental expenses. 

The following statement will give an idea of the income and outgo. During the 
months of September, October and November there were served 1526 luncheons 
at a cost of 15 cents each, bringing in $228.90. There was paid out for milk and 
ice, $37.24; groceries, $123.29; the baker, $24.01; and the butcher, $24.65, making 
a total expenditure of $199.19, and leaving on hand $29.71. 

As to the girls' attitude toward this method, it is gratifj-ing to say they greatly 
enjoy this aspect of the work as their labor has an importance attached to it that 
could not possibly be the case if they knew the product was for themselves alone. 
The knowledge that others are to judge their work and profit by it tends to make 
them more careful. 

Instead of the spirit of the work suffering, as some contend, it seems to add that 
touch of helpfulness to others that is so sorely needed, and it naturally gives to the 
girls the feeling that they are helping in a small degree at least, to support the school 
that is doing so much for them. 

TRADE SCHOOL FOR GIRLS, CAMBRIDGE, MASS. 
Helen G. Flagg. 

My contribution to the discussion will be in the form of a description of the plan 
that is now being carried out very successfully at the Cambridge Trade School for 
Girls. In this school, every girl, even though she is taking the dressmaking course, 
is required to take at least one cooking lesson a week. 

The cooking class prepares each day some simple dish that can be served to the 
rest of the school at noon. These dishes include cocoa, soups, stews, vege- 
tables in many forms, scalloped dishes, salads, and simple desserts, such as jellies, 
bread puddings, shortcakes, and gingerbread, and on festive occasions, ice creams 
and sherbets. Every girl is served with one such dish three times a week — the 
rest of her luncheon being brought from home — and she pays for this extra dish 
at the rate of ten cents a week, or three and a third cents a day. This expense we 
expect every pupil to meet, and without exception we find the girls are very glad 
to pay this for the privilege of having something hot to supplement the cold box 
luncheon. At times, when there has been a larger quantity of food cooked than is 
needed to serve the regular customers, we even find a good deal of competition among 
the other girls as to who shall have the privilege of investing three cents in a cup of 
soup. Any girl may at any time buy a glass of milk for two cents. 

The serving of the luncheon by the cooking squad offers training in setting the 
tables and serving attractively, and adds a home touch which we consider most 
valuable. It is with great satisfaction that I hear of the practical application in the 
home of lessons learned at school. Only a fortnight ago an agent of one of our 



194 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

charity organizations reported to me that one of her girls had set the table at home 
on Thanksgiving Day, and in serving the dinner had followed, as far as possible, 
the instructions she had received at Trade School. Although our primary object in 
introducing cooking into the Trade School was not to train for domestic service, nor 
even, primarily, to make better cooks, yet if we can, by introducing a little of this 
work, arouse an interest in the proper care of the home, the work will not have been 
in vain. 

In addition to preparing something for the school, the girls of the cooking class 
prepare complete luncheons for four of the teachers at a cost of ten cents apiece a day. 
These luncheons are arranged on trays and carried upstairs. This enables the cook- 
ing teachers to give a little instruction as to the preparation of a tray for an invalis. 
A typical tray luncheon would perhaps be cocoa or soup with croutons or crisped 
crackers, salad or scalloped dish, and dessert. Often there are mufl&ns, custards, 
and other dishes which, because of the difficulty in preparing them in large quanti- 
ties, or because of their cost, cannot be served to the girls for three and a third cents. 
All dishes prepared at the school, however, are such as can be used by an average 
family of very limited income. During the ten weeks that the school has been in 
session the income from the luncheons has covered the cost of all the supplies used, 
and there is even a slight balance in the treasury. To do this, the teacher has to 
plan carefully, but this planning to make both ends meet is valuable training for 
the girls, and we approve of acquainting our girls with figures. 

The serving of the luncheon gives an added interest to the cooking class. The 
lesson begins at 10:30 and the class realizes that at 12 o'clock a troop of hungry 
girls will sit down at the tables and expect something to eat. The responsibility 
rests with the young cooks to see that the gingerbread does not burn, and if a girl 
cannot figure three times the rule, or if, for any other reason, she uses too much of 
any ingredient in the soup, something must be done in the emergency. These are 
problems that face every housekeeper, and if we can train our future trade workers 
to meet such problems, to enjoy their work in the kitchen, to prepare at small cost 
nourishing food and so contribute to their physical welfare, we shall have trained 
not only good housewives, but valuable employees in any industry. 

FAIRHAVEN (MASS.) HIGH SCHOOL. 
Eunice E. Strong. 

In describing the work as carried on in the lunch room of the Fairhaven High 
School, I should like first to give an idea of the room in which the luncheons are 
eaten. It is a room about 75 ft. long and 35 ft wide, in the basement on the south 
side of the building. Perhaps the word basement may give a wrong idea, as school 
basements are often untidy and gloomy, but this room is an exception, as there are 
16 windows on the south side, and on a clear day the sun pours in and makes it very 
cheerful. This long room has in the middle two large archways, so that the west side 
is used by the girls and the east side by the boys. In the center on the north side, 
and extending out a little into the room, is a serving room. A marble counter 
extends around the side opening into the lunch room, and on this counter is placed 
the food . The cooking is done in the domestic science laboratory across the corridor 
and then brought to the lunch room. In this serving room are drawers and closets, 
a sink and two gas burners. 



igio] The School Lunch 195 

Luncheons are served to both teachers and pupils, but not at the same time. 
The pupils are not obliged to purchase their luncheons, but may bring all or a part 
from home . Twenty minutes is allowed for recess and at 1 1 13 5 everything is ready — 
the menu written on the board, and the food ready on the counter. The pupils 
take trays and napkins and serve themselves very much as they do at the Horace 
Mann School in New York City, but instead of paying cash at the end of the counter 
after choosing the luncheon, one-cent tickets for the amount purchased are left 
with the boy in charge. The tickets come in long strips, and are purchased in 
lots of at least ten from a boy in another part of the room . After the luncheons have 
been eaten, the trays at each table are stacked in one pile by the last pupil at the 
table and later collected. 

A very simple, but at the same time nourishing luncheon, is served at a very low 
price. The following foods are served daily: milk; soup, chowder, cocoa, milk 
toast, or other hot dishes ; a sandwich — usually meat or egg ; a plain bread and butter 
sandwich. Twice a week ice cream and cookies, and three times a week, a pudding 
or fruit are served. Some of the menus used since September i are as follows: 
corn soup, milk, plain sandwich, beef sandwich, ice cream, cookies; fish chowder, 
milk, plain sandwich, lamb sandwich, bananas ; vegetable soup, milk, plain sandwich, 
lamb sandwich, chocolate pudding. The prices charged may be interesting: milk, 
I cent a glass; soup, 2 cents a cup; cocoa, 2 cents a cup; sandwiches, 3 cents each; 
bread and butter, 2 cents; fruit — banana, orange, apple, 2 cents; two crackers for 
I cent; ice cream, 4 cents; puddings, 3 cents. 

At II :5s, after the pupils have finished and left the room, one table is set with 
linen and silver, etc., for the teachers who have afternoon classes, and a regular 
luncheon or dinner is served . .Usually the same kind of soup is served to both teacher 
and pupils. After the soup there is meat — steak, chicken, chops, or a roast of beef or 
lamb — with at least two kinds of vegetables. The dessert is usually the same as 
served the pupils, thereby saving time and work. If fruit is served the pupils, 
however, a dessert is prepared for the teachers. 

The regular school session closes at i :30 and at i :4o a second luncheon is served 
for the teachers who were unable to eat at the first table. 

Some of the menus used this fall are as follows: Tomato soup, roast beef, beets 
from the school garden, mashed potato, custard rice pudding; fish chowder and 
crackers, lamb chops, mashed potato, creamed cauliflower, baked apples and cream; 
beef steak, com from the school garden, scalloped potatoes, cocoa, fruit jell. 
Bread, butter and milk are served daily. The teachers are charged twenty cents 
for the luncheon. 

I am unable to state just how much it costs to carry on this work in the lunch room, 
as the accoimts for lunch room and cooking school are not kept separate. The idea 
is not to make money from the lunch room, but to prepare good luncheons for as 
small an amount as possible and still about cover the cost. 

In answer to the question, "Who prepares these luncheons, the pupils who take 
domestic science? " I am sorry to say we are unable to have these pupils do very 
much, because all the high school cooking classes meet in the afternoon. The 
eighth grade pupils have never had cooking before so that they can do very little. 
Two assistants therefore prepare the bulk of the Ixmcheon. 

The boy who sells the luncheon tickets is in the commercial department of the 



196 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

school and so is having some practical experience related to his course. In fact all 
accounts for the domestic science department are in charge of the commercial depart- 
ment. 

NEW YORK CITY PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 
Mabel Campbell. 

" What do you do with the ' stuff' the girls cook? " is the question most often asked 
by the visitor to the public school which has domestic science classes. 

Of course one naturally resents having the good dishes one has taught called 
"stuff" and one answers by explaining what a small portion each girl makes and 
that she owns it the same as her map, drawing or composition. 

One of the reasons for having domestic science in the public schools is to influence 
the home-life. To get the girl's mother to see that she is learning something which 
is practical and which will improve the home-life is a problem constantly before the 
domestic science teacher. She cannot visit the homes of four hundred girls and 
demonstrate bread, biscuit, custards, stews, preserves, table service, laundry work 
and so on through a two years' course but she is able to send home samples of 
good food. 

Nowadays people do not buy goods until they have at least seen a sample. The 
candy maker invites one to try his cream peppermints made fresh on the premises 
knowing that for him the sales will be in proportion to the number of samples eaten. 
The demonstrator attests to the value of the " taste, try and buy" method of intro- 
ducing new brands or of keeping old reliable ones well-advertised. The breakfast 
food man sees that a trial package reaches your kitchen and he pays well to accom- 
plish that end. 

We can learn a lesson from these shrewd advertisers and in our turn devise 
means of getting our ideas into the homes. We have a better medium than they for 
we have hundreds of messengers who insist on a hearing and tasting. Little Jane 
comes dancing in, opens her bag, takes out a muffin, roll, bun or cake and mother 
immediately becomes interested and readily consents to let her try the recipe at 
home. Thus home becomes the practice department for the lesson taught in 
school. Colonel Parker has said in this connection that they take the school 
home with them and when education penetrates the home and home penetrates 
the school, things move on. 

In my classes the girls may take home any dish that will be in good condition 
when it arrives there. New paper bags are used for bread, rolls, muffins, tea bis- 
cuits, cakes and candy. 

For foods which are cooked in small dishes such as custards, bread puddings, 
scalloped vegetables, casserole of rice and meat, the girls bring their own dishes, 
bowls or cups without handles, and the food goes home in the "original package," 
covered with waxed paper. There are other foods which are taken home in covered 
jelly-glasses or in dishes carefully protected from the dust. These are baked and 
stewed fruits, soups, stews, salads, and shortcakes. 

The remaining foods, those which must be eaten as soon as cooked, are served in 
class. This gives a fine opportunity for lessons in serving and table manners as the 
class and teacher eat from the best dishes, with silver spoons or forks, and with 
paper napkins for table cloths. 

There are alwavs some children who will not eat the food served in school dishes 



igio] The School Lunch 197 

because of religious scruples and they welcome the opportunity to bring a dish from 
home. When the food is served in class I always accept the statement, " No thank 
you, I am not hungry" without question and tell them to give it to a friend who is 
hungry. 

A lesson on a school lunch box is always welcome and is a favorite one with the 
girls. It is one way of improving the lunch prepared at home for school children. 
If one doubts the need for this lesson, one should watch school children struggling 
with "hunks" of bread, hard rolls, sandwiches wrapped in newspapers, and the 
like. Then one will no longer wonder that they hide what they are eating when you 
approach. Paper napkins cost only ten cents a hundred, paper bags five cents a 
hundred, waxed paper comes a cent for ten sheets. These will glorify plain bread 
and butter sandwiches and an apple into something to be proud of. 

The home work book in which is recorded the work done at home according to the 
direction learned in class is always in demand. The comments show that it is used, 
as well, and that the work is much appreciated in many homes. 

MANUAL TRAINING HIGH SCHOOL, BERLIN, ONTARIO, CANADA. 

Kate L. Fisher.^ 

At this school a soup kitchen is conducted by the household science department 
A vegetable soup is served at s cents per bowl, and cocoa at 2 cents per bowl. We 
have not yet attempted to serve anything else, as the students supplement this 
with a lunch brought from home. There has been a small profit at these prices, 
which up to the present has been used in buying equipment. 

An order sheet is supplied in the oSice which the students sign at any time before 
9.40 a.m. The sheet is divided for convenience into two columns, one for soup and 
one for cocoa. 

A list of housekeepers is made out at the beginning of the school year from the 
girls who have spare periods. There are usually four housekeepers during the morn- 
ing, two for each period. One girl makes the soup, another the cocoa, and the sec- 
ond set of housekeepers finishes what the first has started. There are two waitresses 
every day to serve the soup, girls who usually bring their lunch, and each pair 
serves once a week. 

The students come to the kitchen door for their orders. One waitress takes 
the order, checks off the name from the order list and receives the money. At 
the end of serving time she enters her receipts in an account book, in which are also 
entered all expenditures. The waitresses balance this book every day. The other 
waitress fills the orders. 

The order list, the list of housekeepers, a sheet of careful directions to housekeepers 
and one to waitresses, are all posted on the bulletin board in the kitchen. 

Vegetables and cocoa are purchased by the case. We have a special cupboard 
made in the kitchen for all suppHes and dishes, so that the equipment of the depart- 
ment is not disturbed. Both the gas and coal range are used. The receipts are 
deposited in the savings bank, and all accounts paid by check by a student appointed 
for that purpose. 

^ School lunches are also carried out in a similar way in the High School of Gait, 
Ontario, Canada. 



POPULAR EDUCATION IN DIETETICS. 

WiNiTRED Stuart Gibbs. 

A speaker at the Boston convention of the American Home 
Economics Association said, among other things, "A new work has 
always more of prophecy than fulfilhnent. " The work of the "visit- 
ing dietitian" has not progressed far beyond the prophetic stage, but 
the step it has taken would seem to be decisive enough to command 
interest. 

Conditions in the field have changed little since I made my report 
in the Journal a year ago, but the fact that they still remain to be 
reckoned with, and give every promise of continuing so to do, is the 
best argument for those who wish to establish the work on a firm 
basis. 

The decisive step onward of which mention has been made lies in 
the fact that interest among sociologists and domestic economists is 
spreading rapidly. From the beginning of the experiment there have 
been a few earnest persons who have been interested, but the year 
just gone has increased that number many times. 

The New York Association for Improving the Condition of the 
Poor, the first of the large relief associations to add this form of instruc- 
tion in its plan of work, is, of course, an exponent, so far as possible, of 
"constructive philanthropy," and it stands first of all for preserving 
absolutely the integrity of the home. In the opinion of the staff, no 
other one form of instruction is more intimately boimd up with the 
foundation of things than that which attempts to solve the home 
side of the food problem. 

In a general way, every student of nutrition knows that the results 
of improper feeding are very numerous, but one has to come into 
actual contact with the tenement home life to realize that they are 
practically endless. Broken down nerves with a consequent resort 
to stimulants, soft bones, weak muscles, faulty action of the organs 
of elimination resulting in diseases of the kidneys and liver, are a few 
of the direct results, but the indirect results, the -friction in home life, 
the weakening of moral fiber, are no less formidable. 

198 



19 lo] Popular Edtication in Dietetics 



199 



It is not to be expected that any one agent is permanently to reform 
conditions. We need all the combined wisdom of those interested, 
that the best plan may be at last perfected. The purpose of this 
paper is to trace further the development of the experiment being 
carried on by the visiting dietitian, or, as her pupils call her, "cookin' 
lady." 

The effort is made constantly to make the work absolutely practical. 
Every resource of the individual family is considered, and then begins 
the task of so making use of their resources as to cause them to yield 
the best possible results in health and strength. 

The work falls naturally into two divisions— those cases that 
approach the normal in income and health, and those which fall far 
below in either or both. Primarily the aim is to cope with condi- 
tions arising from ignorance rather than destitution, but the task of 
dealing with the subnormal cases would seem to be equally important, 
if education is to be given a chance to show all that it can do; for may 
not instruction in proper feeding so far restore the health of the desti- 
tute family as to give it an impetus strong enough to carry it out of 
the slough of despondency and dependence? 

Here is a family of father, mother and four young children. The 
father has been a hack driver earning a more than comfortable income, 
until the constant exposure has weakened his constitution and a severe 
case of valvular heart trouble has incapacitated him for hard work. 
The diet has been most carefully prescribed by the dispensary physi- 
cian, but the housekeeper has nothing but an easy going willingness 
to do the right thing on which to base her husband's hope of renewed 
health. Three lessons have given that woman a grasp of the subject 
sufficiently strong to enable her to cook each article of prescribed 
food perfectly, and the deadly attacks of indigestion are largely under 
control. The variety of teachings which it was possible to give in 
this case is of more than passing interest, for the arrival of the very 
newest baby complicated matters, and left a ten year old child at the 
helm during the mother's iUness. The teacher found this child wash- 
ing dishes with the help of her sister, the efforts of the latter being 
crowned with indifferent success; this fact was noted and apologized 
for by the "little mother" on the ground that "Helen is not so very 
old, you see. " Helen had reached the advanced age of six years. 
The sequel to this story would be an account of the ten year oldhouse- 
keepei's final triumph, for she learned to prepare the necessary food 
for her father and to make broth and gruel for her mother. This case 



200 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

has been described somewhat at length, for it seemed to show equally 
well the advantage of the home plan of instruction by illustrating the 
close contact with vital matters possible to one who meets her pupils 
where they do their actual living. 

One interesting case is that of a widow with six children. She was 
intelligent above the average, and with a mind keenly alive to grasp 
all the information that came her way. This mother had too much 
common sense to feed her children any food that was actively harm- 
ful and here it was a case of lessons in planning meals to make a 
better balanced ration and of lessons in cooking the food so as to make 
it more digestible. The pupil brought so much interest to the lessons 
that it was a very real pleasure to help her, and great was her pride 
and satisfaction when she learned how to make tough meat tender, 
how to cook vegetables, and in short how to give her hungry children 
food that was, however limited the variety, really attractive. 

A woman worn and tired, with nine children to keep her busy, would 
seem at first not to give large promise as a pupil. However, the nine 
appetites were of such size as to make it necessary to do very close 
planning, and as the teacher arrived just after the man had been forced 
out on a sympathetic strike, she found ample scope for her energies 
in showing the woman that if fifteen cents were the only money at 
hand, it was possible to make it meet an emergency with an approach 
to adequacy if one learned the value of certain foods. 

In one family a child with a bad case of skin disease gives the mater- 
ial to work on; in another a man with tuberculosis; one mother expects 
her daughter to throw off a state of nerve tire with the aid of a diet 
of strong tea and "buns" from the bakery; a Polish mother tells the 
visitor haltingly that she "knows only coarse cooking," but that her 
children Kke "American ways," so she begs to be taught. 

A young housekeeper was given the opportunity of asking ques- 
tions and she said: "I have just twenty-five cents to spend for supper; 
tell me how to make it go the farthest." That struck the key note. 
Most of them have only fifteen or twenty-five or forty cents as the 
case may be, but with all there is one point in common — the family 
living is done in a helter-skelter, hand to mouth way. Sometimes 
this is literally necessary, owing to the variable earning power of the 
bread winner, but a great advance for that family has been made when 
the housekeeper comes to realize the advantage of a systematic basis, 
and is taught how to run her house on such a basis whenever pos- 
sible. 



iQio] Problems in Nutrition 201 

The American working man is apt to demand "the best," and one 
of the greatest services which can be rendered him is to teach his 
family that buying expensive food where cheaper would be equally 
nourishing is utter folly. 

To those who are interested I would say this. In each family get 
the following information: 

a. Number in family. 

h. Income. 

c. Rent. 

d. State of health of each member. 

e. Habits in eating. 

Then decide how much that family ought to spend for food, and 
teach them what food to buy and how to cook it. 

As to the future, I should say: To make a success of work of this 
kind it is necessary occasionally to forget the vastness of the problem 
in the vastness of one's effort, to be willing to sow for the next genera- 
tion to reap, and finally, not to be discouraged for lack of associates — 
several cities are interested, and others are falling into line; be ready 
to work in whichever comer your opportunity offers. 



PROBLEMS IN NUTRITION. 

Rubner, who has through many years of brilliant work made 
most important contributions to the theories of nutrition, has recently 
pubUshed two volumes^ in which he considers questions.of man's diet 
and the balance of matter and energy in nature. The review of these 
essays which follows was published in Nature.^ 

These two little books contain three useful and readable essays 
on those nutritional problems to which Prof. Max Rubner has directed 
most of his research work. The first of the above mentioned books 
contains two of these, and they treat of the minimum protein require- 
ment of man and of the diet of the poor respectively. The first ques- 
tion has within recent years been brought prominently before the 
scientific world, as well as the public at large, by the work of Chitten- 
den and others, who argue from their experiments that because they 

^ Volksernahrungsfragen, pp. iv -(- 143, Leipsig, 1908, und Kraft und Stoff im 
Haushalte der Natur, pp. 181, Leipsig, 1909. 
^ Nature [London], 82 (1909) No. 2088, pp. 2-3. 



202 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

themselves have been able for limited periods to maintain their health 
and equilibrium on an amount of protein which is far below the usually 
accepted Voit minimum, therefore all men should permanently reduce 
their intake of protein to the same low level. Those who believe that 
the minimum is also the optimum would do well to read and to consider 
carefully the Berlin professor's judicial commentary on theii views. 

What most strikes the reader is the extraordinary complexity of the 
problem. One factor, however, is absent, and that is the effect of 
work and rest, for this causes practically no effect on the metabolism 
of protein matter; but the question is sufficiently complex without 
tills. There is between different people an enormous variation in 
what one may term their metabolic habits, so that any hard and fast 
rule is impossible. The mere body weight is not an important ele- 
ment, although, naturally, the heavier a man the more protein will he 
require. If this were all, it would be easy co adapt the dosage to the 
body weight; but the difference is deeper than this: to mention one 
point only, it is shown that, as a rule, the thin person requires more 
protein to maintain nitrogenous equilibrium than the corpulent. It 
must have been a matter of common observation that the stoutest 
people are not the biggest eaters. Another complicating factor is 
what one eats with the protein, and also the kind of protein one ingests. 
It is shown that on a potato diet, for example, the minimum necessary 
to maintain nitrogenous equilibrium is less than with any other of 
the diets adopted. We have further to take into account the presence 
in most foods of nitrogenous substances which are not protein, but 
which, nevertheless, have to be reckoned with. 

The second essay, on the diet of the poor (agricultural labourers 
and the like), emphasizes very clearly one reason why a low protein 
intake brings the consumer dangerously near to the margin. It i^i 
shown beyond question that such a diet renders people much more 
prone to take infectious diseases, and there is a general lowering of 
the powers of resistance. Considering that the bulk of the popula- 
tion consists of those who are not well to do, this becomes a matter of 
national importance, and it is the duty of the State to interfere. Pro- 
fessor Rubner appears to think that legislative measures should be 
adopted. We can see, however, that the difficulty of legislating on 
such a matter is very great; but at least the people should be educated 
on the question of feeding rationally, especially where children are 
concerned. Anyone with any experience of hospital patients knows that 
ignorance, in addition to poverty, is at the bottom of most of the con- 



iQio] Problems in Nutrition 203 

ditions of malnutrition which meet us at every turn. Ignorance, more- 
over, is not confined to the poor in regard to this most important question. 
The third essay, which occupies the second volume, is a summary 
of Professor Rubner's work on nutrition generally; it is written in a 
more popular manner than most of his publications, and a distinct 
philosophical vein runs through it. The chemical events which occur 
in the living body fall mainly into two categories — (i) those due to the 
activity of enzymes; in these there is but little transformation of en- 
ergy; and (2) those which may roughly be described as combustion, 
and from which the energy of living and doing is derived. It is the 
second class of chemical changes to which Profecsor Rubner has 
mainly diiected his attention, and it is to him, in particular, that 
we owe the experimental proof that the law of conservation 
of energy apphes to the living cell as well as to the world of inorganic 
matter. The law of the conservation of energy is so universal that 
one might, perhaps, have assumed it would hold for living as well 
as for lifeless material. But the scientific mind assumes nothing with- 
out direct proof; we have no right to assume beforehand that some 
other law might not be found operating in the organic world. The 
crude caloiimetric researches of Lavoisier and the early pioneers of 
this subject certainly showed great discrepancies between the results 
obtained and those calculated from the energy value of the diets 
employed; but as technique has improved so has it been shown that 
all such discrepancies were the result of imperfection in the methods 
used. For the improvements in method, and the patient working out 
of the problem, as well as the final demonstration of the truth of the 
great law of energy conservation in the world of Ufe, there is no one to 
whom we owe more than to Professor Rubner himself. 



EMMA HART WILLARD— A PIONEER IN THE HIGHER 
EDUCATION OF WOMEN. 

Maree T. Spethmann. 

Assistant in Agricultural Education, Office of Experiment Stations, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

In the hope that it may be a source of encouragement and inspira- 
tion to all who are interested in the advancement of the education of 
woman, a review is given below of the work and ideals of Mrs. Emma 
Hart Willard, a most earnest and energetic pioneer in the cause of 
woman's education, and one of the first American teachers to recog- 
nize the possibilities of educational work in Home Economics. In 
preparing the article the writer has made free use of data brought 
together by others' who have been interested in the subject. 

Miss Emma Hart was bom February 23,1787, in the Worthington 
Parish of Berlin, Conn. She received her early education in a district 
school, and later attended for two years the Berlin Academy. Being 
one of a large family, she early learned the value of true economy and 
how to help in the care of those around her. In the spring of 1804 
she took charge of a children's school in the village of Berlin, and after 
a few years spent in alternate teaching and attending school, she took 
charge successively of the BerUn Academy, Westfield (Mass.) Acad- 
emy, and Middlebury(Vt.) Academy, and while she encountered many 
hardships, her work met with brilliant success. 

Of her early work in Middlebury, Mrs. Willard writes: 

The winter of 1807-8 was one of exceeding hardship for me. .Mthough the 
weather was very cold, with frequent storms and much snow, I had to walk from Dr. 
Tudor's where I boarded, to the academy and when there to keep my school in a 
large long room, formed like an ordinary ball room, occupying the whole upper 
story, while the only means of gaining warmth was from an open fire, in a small 
fireplace on the north end. Yet that winter I had an increased and very pleasant 
school. When it was so cold that we could live no longer, I called all my girls on to 

' Samuel Swift's History of the Town of Middlebur>' in the County of .•\ddison, 
Vermont. Middlebury: 1859. pp. 3QI-401; and an article entitled Educational 
Services of Mrs. Emma Willard, by Henry Eowler, in Henry Barnard's American 
Journal of Education, 6 (1859), pp. 125-168. 

204 



iQio] Emma Hart Willard 205 

the floor, and arranged them two and two in a long row for a country dance ; and while 
those who could sing would strike up some stirring tune, I with one of the girls for 
a partner, would lead down the dance, and soon have them all in rapid motion. 
After which we went to our school exercises again. The school had quite an increase 
in the spring from different parts of the state, and amounted to sixty. Among them, 
and from the village, was a remarkable band of young maidens, ranging from about 
twelve to fifteen. I remained in this school two years from the time I commenced. 

At the age of 22 she married Dr. John Willard. Soon after the 
marriage Dr. Willard met with unexpected financial reverses, which 
determined Mrs. Willard, with his consent, to undertake again the 
teacher's profession, and in 1814 she opened a boarding school for 
girls at Middlebury. A year or two later she formed the design of 
effecting an important change in education by the introduction of a 
higher grade of schools for women than any heretofore known. The 
close proximity of her school to Middlebury College made apparent 
the great disparity between the educational facilities for the two sexes, 
and she began to write an address proposing a plan for improving 
education for woman, hoping thereby to influence legislators to correct 
this discrimination. The plan was completed in 1816; but she deter- 
mined to increase her efficiency and personal influence as a teacher 
before soHciting the support of influential men to place the project 
before the legislature of Vermont or other states. Her school grew, 
having an attendance of seventy, and she spent from 10 to 12 hours a 
day in teaching, and upwards of 15 hours when preparing for examina- 
tions. She taught her pupils (i) to understand by explanation and illus- 
tration, (2) to remember by recitation, and (3) to communicate, hy^^repdiX- 
ation for examinations. She constantly had under investigation some 
new subject which while studying she taught to a class of her best pupils ; 
hence every new term some new study was introduced. This thorough 
teaching added rapidly to her reputation. She began a series of im- 
provements in teaching geography, educational history, moral philoso- 
phy, and philosophy of the mind. The introduction of the study 
of higher mathematics she regarded as a leading epoch in the education 
for women. "She regards it", says one of those who have written of 
her work, "as having more than any one thing been the cause of that 
stronger intellectual power which American women have long shown 
in their abihty to teach not only high subjects in the schools but to 
investigate new ones and to manage high schools as well as those for 
children. " 

Mrs. Willard was most desirous of having some of her pupils profit 
by the college instruction in certain courses, and pleaded with the 



2o6 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

authorities of Middlebury College to grant the favor. She asked merely 
that they be allowed to be present as listeners, but even that privilege 
was denied them, and so Middlebury failed to take advantage of a 
historic opportunity. The Middlebury professors, however, attended 
her examinations though they did not think it a safe precedent that 
she should attend theirs. 

In February, 1818, she submitted her plan for an institution for the 
higher education of women to Governor Clinton of the State of New 
York, who in his message to the legislature recommended legislative 
action in a cause heretofore wholly neglected. A legislative act was 
passed incorporating the school at Waterford, N. Y., and giving to 
young women's academies a share of the State literature fimd. This 
was the first law passed with its sole object the improvement of the 
education of women, and is the same law which now enable academies 
for women in the State of New York to receiv^e pubKc money. In the 
spring of 1819 the school was removed from Middlebury to Waterford, 
together with all the teachers and some of the boarding pupils. A 
large house was rented for 2 years and the school was enlarged — in its 
number of teachers, in its scope, and in its expenses. 

An account of Mrs. Willard's plan was published under the title 
An Address to the Public, particularly to the Legislature of New York, 
Proposing a Plan for Improving Female Education. It was introduced 
by a compact statement of the importance of a thorough education 
for women and an appeal to the legislature to found and endow a semi- 
nary for women. Then followed a declaration of the author's views 
concerning the different duties of men and women, and the consequent 
need of a different and distinct system of education for each sex. She 
discussed the defects of the existing method of women's education, 
the principles by which education should be regulated, the educational 
plan of a women's seminary, and the benefit which society should 
receive from such seminaries. Briefly, she advocated the selection of 
studies and employment peculiarly fitted to improve the faculties, 
or such as the pupil would most probably have occasion to practice 
in future life, rather than to fit young women for displaying to advan- 
tage the charms of youth and beauty. The plan recommended as 
essentials of a women's seminary(i) a commodious building and equip- 
ment, (2) a library, (3) a judicious board of trustees, (4) suitable 
instructions — moral and religious, literary, domestic, and ornamental, 
the importance of education in natural, mental, and moral philosophy 
to be forcibly pointed out. Mrs. Willard believed further that " house- 



igio] Emma Hart Willard 207 

wifery might be greatly improved by being taught not only in practice 
but in theory. Why may it not be reduced to a system as well as 
other arts?" she writes. 

Her views on woman's mission as a teacher were received by the 
public with surprise. This was before the beginning of the working 
out of her favorite problem that children's education is the business of 
women. 

In 1820, a legislative bill granting $2,000 to her project failed in the 
New York Assembly, and more serious still, the Regents of the Uni- 
versity of New York decided that no part of the State literature fund 
could go to the school. In May,i82i, Mr. and Mrs. Willard accepted 
a proposition to remove the school to Troy, N. Y., a corporation 
agreeing to provide a building and a plot of ground. The plan was 
circulated in all parts of the Union and also in Europe, and was widely 
approved, quoted and pubHshed in leading journals. Its claims were 
advocated before the New York state legislature, but the plan for 
state aid was finally rejected in 1823. This was a severe trial to 
Mrs. Willard's faith. However, she continued her Troy Seminary as 
a school under corporation management. 

A comparison of Mrs. Willard's plan with the many girls' schools 
as they exist today will show many things of interest. 

Her first teachers at Troy, except for music, painting, and the lan- 
guages, were taught personally by herself, and afterwards by those whom 
she instructed. "It would have cost thousands to have provided an 
equal number of educated men to teach the branches taught in the 
seminary. " The great and extensive popularity which Mrs. Willard's 
teaching and school text books had attained, for she wrote a number 
of text books on different subjects which were very widely used, 
caused scholars to come in from every part of the Union and also from 
Canada and the West Indies, thus providing means for the mainte- 
nance of the institution. The fame and the influence of the school 
were promoted by private and public examinations of the school, the 
circulation of her "plan," and chiefly through the professional training 
of teachers and the great demand for their services. Mrs. Willard's 
plan to train teachers may be called the beginning of normal school 
work in the United States. Of this she writes: 

In a late account of normal schools, made by Mr. Ormiston of Upper Canada* 
he says the first in the UnitedStates was foxmded in 1838, in Massachusetts. This 
was more than twenty years later than the time when I began specially to prepare 
pupils for teachers. In Middlebury, Elizabeth Sherrill and Katherine Batty were 



2o8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

trained to become teachers in the institution which I was proposing to found, and 
they were among my first teachers in this state. 

After the school was established in Troy, encouraged by a very 
liberal and unexpected private patronage, but disappointed in the 
endowment expected from the state, Mrs. WiUard writes: 

I ceased applying to the legislature, and determined to spread in another manner 
what I believed an improved system. I then betook myself to the training of 
teachers. Young women of character and of talents I received to board and educate, 
some of them to clothe and some to pay traveling expenses; when afterwards 
they went forth, as recommended by me, on application for teachers, to our 
different states. They went pledged to pay me, when they earned sufficient money, 
by teaching; being, however, allowed to retain of their earnings sufficient to clothe 
themselves. In this way I continued to educate and send forth teachers, until 200 
had gone from Troy Seminary before one was educated in any public normal school 
in the United States. Thus early was my system of female education carried to 
every part of the country, and the school, which in 1814 was begun in Middlebury, 
is fairly entitled to the honor of being the first normal school in the United States. 

Mrs. Willard, it would seem fair to conclude, deserves the credit for 
starting the normal school movement which she claims. 

Dr. Willard died in 1825 but Mrs. Willard continued to manage 
the Troy school until 1838, when she gave it over to her son. In 
1830 she traveled in Europe, and later published a volume descriptive 
of her journey. The proceeds from the sale of this book she gave to a 
school for women in Athens, Greece, which she had helped to found. 
Besides this book and her text books shepubUshed a volume of poems — 
of which the best known is "Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep." 

Mrs. Willard died in 1870. She was a great influence in the move- 
ment for higher education for women and has always been an inspira- 
tion to all who hold hke high ideals. In 1895 a statue was unveiled 
in Troy in her honor to commemorate the work for higher education . 
An Emma Willard Scholarship has also been established in Middle- 
bury College. 



THE ECONOMICS OF THE FAMILY. 
A Suggested Course for the Department of Home Economics/ 

Gwendolyn Stewart. 

The closing days of the year 1908 were marked by events of signifi- 
cance to those who are interested in the development of instruction in 
the welfare of the home and family. On December 28-30, the Ameri- 
can Economics Association with its sister organizations, the Sociological 
Society, the Association for Labor Legislation and the American Statis- 
tical Society met in joint session to consider the condition of family 
life. In the city of Washington, on the day following the close of 
this session of unusual cooperation, the American Home Economics 
Association was organized for the purpose of "improvement of living 
conditions in the home, the institutional household and the commun- 
ity. "2 This evidence of the present effort toward the study of the family 
makes unnecessary a long introduction upon the importance of instruc- 
tion in the economics of the family. 

The study of the family in universities and colleges is of compara- 
tively recent development. The growth of interest in and the recog- 
nition of the importance of such a subject may be said to be parallel 
with the beginning of the recognition of the importance of instruction 
in the principles of marriage and divorce. In the report of the National 
Divorce Reform League for the year ended December 31, 1893, it 
is stated that "the growth of interest in the study of the family and 
its incidental subjects and especially in sociology, of which former 
reports have spoken, was more marked in 1893 than in any former year, 
especially in the colleges for women. "^ 

The study of the family began with promise in the women's colleges, 
but, apparently, these institutions have been loath to follow the trend 
of development in the extension and intensification of their courses. 

^ A portion of a thesis submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for 
the degree of Master of Arts in Household Science in the Graduate School of the 
University of Illinois, 1909. 

-Jour. Home Econ. (1909), No. i, p. i. 

' National Divorce Reform League, Rpt. 1893, p. 18. 

209 



2IO The Journal of Home Economics [April 

As a class, the women's colleges have seemed reluctant to break away 
from the historical and ethnological development of the subject. They 
have felt justified in offeiing their students opportunity for intensive 
study in the misery of homes as provided in the courses in charities and 
corrections, but have feared to allow them the study of the wealth 
of homes as provided in a course in the economics of the family. 

An examination of the latest catalogs of the leading universities 
and women's colleges and personal correspondence* with the instruc- 
tors in charge of the courses which include the study of conditions 
related to the family, seem to indicate that neither the family nor the 
home is yet studied as a normal institution : an organization, over which 
in a comparatively short time after graduation, the majority of the 
students, whatever their business in life, will have control. 

It may, perhaps , be said that the universities and colleges have not 
fully grasped the significance of Mrs. Richards' appeal: — 

"What is more needed is information as to what it costs to live well for a family 
with $1500 to $3000 per year.. ■ . It is because I believe in the possibilityof control 
of even economic conditions by ideals firmly held by a sufficient number of fathers 
and mothers (who alone, according to Patten, count for much in race progress)^ that 
I urge so strongly the dissemination of what scientific knowledge we have."* 

Dr. Ross, in his estimate of the discussions held during the joint 
meetings, previously mentioned, sums up with the statement: 

All were impressed with the sovereignty of economic conditions over the structure 
of the family, and it was borne in upon all that the American family is in an unstable 
position and that changes are certain to come in the near future.^ 

The investigation of the economic conditions having an influence 
on the home should now be undertaken. The "spirit of getting 
behind"^ should be exemplified in the economic problems of the 
home. It may be remarked that among the leading papers of the last 
annual meeting of the American Sociological Society there were none 
on marriage and divorce. This fact is an indication that the piesent 
study of the family is an effort to leave the most obvious expressions 

* See pp. 229 to 232. 

'Patten, S. N.: The Development of English Thought. 1899, p. 385. 

'Richards, E. H.: The Cost of Living as modified by Sanitary Science. 2d. 
ed., 1903, pp. 76, 79. 

^ Ross, E. A.: Atlantic City Meetings. Charities and the Comniovs, 21 (1909), 
No. 15, p. 665. 

' Devine, E. T. : Results of the Pittsburgh survey. American Journal 0/ Sociology, 
14 (1909), p. 660. 



iQio] The Economics of the Family 211 

of conditions and to go behind to find the real causes which bring about 
the glaring ill-effects as well as the hopeful signs of family life. This 
movement may be considered as analogous with the development of 
the study of medicine and sanitation. The work was at first individu- 
alistic — the removing of individual evils — but now, it is a searching 
behind to find the causes, in order that not only an individual but that 
himianity may be relieved from possible distress. Professor Sedgwick 
has said, in contradiction to Alexander Pope: 

"The proper study of mankind is the universe which include man."' 
"As has already been said, it is for those educated persons with $1000 to $3000 
annual income to lead the way in the studies necessary to be undertaken before 
any authoritative statements can be made, and to show what the public ought to 
have; not always to cater to what the public likes. "i° 

Miss Salmon in taking up again the consideration of the problem of 
domestic service, emphatically states that practically nothing more 
can be done until the universities have undertaken the serious scienti- 
fic investigation of the household problems. 

If the household is to profit by the educational progress of the day, it can only be 
after the university has taken the initiative and has made all matters pertaining to 
the house and home a subject of scientific research. 1' It therefore remains for the 
university to recognize that the household is worthy of investigation.'^ 

Pioneers in Home Economics in the early stage? of itr development 
did not imdertake the economic study of the family or the home, but 
rather of the activities of the home. Now, students of Home Eco- 
nomics realize the importance of the principles of economics as applied 
to these activities and to the family as a whole. 

The development of Home Economics itself was based on the fact 
that the maintenance of a well balanced home was hindered by the 
housewife's ignorance of her tools — the word tool being used in the 
sense of material as well as of equipment. In recognition of this 
fact, education began with the most obvious tools, those concerned with 
cooking, clothing, and cleaning. A campaign was inaugurated, not 
only by the schools but also by the public at large — the government, 
the manufacturer and the popular press. 

The study of the early common school of this country shows that 
the first work began with the three primary subjects, designated with 

' Sedgwick, W. T. : Public lecture, University of Illinois, 1909. 
1" Richards, E. H. : Loc. cit., p. 32. 

" Salmon, L. M.: Progress in the household, 1906, p. 49. 
^Loc. cit., p. 43. 



212 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

never ending humor as the " three R's — readin', 'ritin' and' rithmetic. " 
Home Economics, in its early beginning, included the thiee funda- 
mental C's — cooking, clothing and cleaning. These three primary 
subjects have been expanded into the vaiied courses designated as 
economics of food; dietetics; household architecture; elementary 
home decoration; sanitation; and textiles. And, as the thiee original 
" R's " have been increased by a fourth, Mrs. Richards' " right living, "" 
the moment is propitious for the fourth C in Home Economics, con- 
trolling. 

A course on the economics of the family for the Department of 
Home Economics would be an attempt to consider the family from the 
standpoint of the woman, who through her position as administrator 
of the family funds, controls the status of the family in its economic 
and social relations. Such a course would be essentially a study of 
the family as it may be controlled by woman. 

The fundamental concept of the course would be control in the home. 
The course would be not merely an attempt to impart information, 
but would also be an attempt to train the student to recognize and to 
value the economic essentials of the home, and to develop her ability 
to assume control and to administer ihe family expenditures according 
to economic principles. 

In order that there may be a clear understanding as to the function 
of such a course it may be well to explain exactly what is meant, fiist, 
by the economics of the family; second, by the economic essentials 
of the home; and third, by economic principles. 

Economics of the family is therefore the study of those relations 
which exist between the family and society in production, distribu- 
tion and consumption of wealth. The true test of an institution is: 
Does it promote public welfare by the best methods and to the greatest 
extent possible? The object of the study of the economics of the 
family is to test whether or not the family, as an institution, promotes 
the public welfare by the best methods, and if not, to determine by 
what methods it may better promote the public welfare. 

The economic essentials of the home may be said to be income, 
warmth, shelter, food, labor, markets, private property and social 
relations. Warmth, shelter and food are physical wants. They last 
through life. They are primary wants ; they may be reduced , but cannot 
be abolished. Labor is an expenditure of energy in changing the form 

" Richards, E. H. : The Art of Right L ving, 1904. 



igio] The Economics of the Family 213 

or condition of things. Labor is the active agent in all production. 
Properly directed labor adapts non-usable things to usefulness. 

A market is a group of buyers and sellers in competition no matter 
where they are. The institution of private property, the exclusive 
control by a person over things of value, is the most important of 
fundamental institutions. One of the chief objects of economic 
study is to discover social relations and perfect them. 

One of the problems of life is to adjust the essential activities to get 
maximum benefits, to economize on lower wants in order to have 
wealth for higher wants. 

It is the present duty of the economist to insist upon this, to magnify the office 
of the wealth expender, to accompany her to the threshold of the home that he may 
point out, with untiring vigilance, its woful defects, its emptiness caused not so 
much by lack of income as by lack of knowledge of how to spend wisely." 

As a slight assumption of this duty to assist woman in hei household 
expenditures, this suggested course in the economics of the family is 
submitted. The suggested course is planned for advanced students 
who have had a beginners' course in the underlying principles of eco- 
nomics. The plan of the course is similar to that used in the sciences. 
Recitations consume the minimum amount of time, the major work 
being done in the laboratory periods of investigation and collation of 
material in reports by the students. 

An outline of topics with references, chiefly of recent date and 
of direct appHcation to the subject, has been prepared as a suggested 
guide. The more important books have been starred in the selec- 
tion of references. These are not only the best books on the topic 
indicated but in general they are the best books which are recommended 
for use under a number of topics. 

The list of references is not by any means complete. This is parti- 
cularly true of the topics which bear upon ethnology. In the selection 
of references the main idea of this course has been kept in mind, viz: 
that this course is one in economics, not in sociology, education or any 
other subject which may bear largely on the historical and ethonolog- 
ical basis of investigation. 

It is necessary to include in a comprehensive study of the family, 
however, material from other subjects than that of economics. There- 
fore some of the essentials of education, economics, sociology, phil- 
osophy and physiology are introduced. These subjects have a definite 

" Devine, E. T. : Economic Function of Women, p. 58-59. 



214 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

place in the study of the home and their direct application would tend 
to make clear their proportionate value. 

It is important that the student should have a clear concept of the 
co-relation of each of these subjects to the home over which she may 
have control. In this course emphasis is placed on proportion in 
expenditure and on harmony of consumption with the idea of attain- 
ing the full spirit of contentment, harmony of surroundings and growth 
toward higher Hfe. 

Material on ethnology, marriage, divorce, and birthrates is abun- 
dant. There is also a wealth of mateiial on econorm'c principles, 
taxation, and the history of the early guilds and markets; but there is 
a decided dearth of material as applied to the problems in the economic 
Hfe of the family and in the business organization of the home. 

Many of the topics are considered first in theoretical relation. 
Ethics and economics are clearly related and, in the attempt to discuss 
many of these problems, ethics may be said to lead the way. After 
ethics the logical development is, as arranged by Professor Commons: 

First statistics, the means of measuring the amount and the movement of social 
forces; next, economics, the analysis and valuation of the more compelling forces; 
then sociology, the coordinating and balancing of all the courses; then legislation, 
the control of the forces for social ends."^* 

The outline is based on the three fundamental problems in the 
economics of the family: the family itself; marriage; and the home; 
each in its economic and social aspect. The outline begins with the 
study of the family as an individual unit, including the relation of one 
part to another within the unit; and closes with the study of the 
family as a social unit in its relation to the economic world. 

In studying the family the "first and most ob\dous material which 
presented itself for the study of the family was Ancient Law. "J* But 
here the purport of this course has been kept in mind and an effort 
has been made to keep within the bounds of the subject. 

The three primary constituent members of the family — the husband 
or father, the wife or mother, and the child, are each considered in their 
economic relation to one another. In the treatment of the "woman in 
the family" special emphasis is laid on the economic position of woman 
as wife and mother and as the administrator of the home. 



" Commons, J. R. : The Altantic City Meetings. Charities and the Commons, 21 
(1909), No. IS, p. 665. 
" Bosanquet, Helen: The Family, 1906, p. 9. 



19 1 o] The Economics of the Family 215 

The discussion of the "child in the family" opens with an economic 
consideration of the birth-rate in its relation to the problem of popula- 
tion and to the family itself. In both cases, those influences which 
exist within the family are particularly noted. There is no attempt to 
apply pedagogical principles, but merely an effort to describe the 
child's economic rights and duties. 

After this consideration of the family, as well as that of its status 
and economic fimction, marriage is taken up in the same general way. 
The discussion of the annulment of marriage and divorce follow? that 
of the establishment of marriage. The problem of divorce is considered 
from the standpoint of its causes and of its influences upon the stability 
of the family. 

In the discussion following marriage, the home is considered in its 
significance as a human institution. Its present relations to the eco- 
nomic and sociological forces of Hfe are emphasized over those of the 
historical, artistic, and constructive. In the selection of material 
it is a little difficult to differentiate the principles which belong 
essentially to the home itself and not to the family or to some par- 
ticular phase of family or home life. 

The meaning of the word home is so peculiarly surrounded by ethical 
and psychic perceptions and impressions which enlarge and carry its 
meaning beyond the mere confines of any estabHshment, that even the 
discussion of home must be of such nature as to leave the mind open 
to the pressure of ideals rather than of ideas. 

The establishment of the home as determined by location, dwelling 
and income is next discussed. Under this topic, the discussion of 
income is limited to the principles of economics. 

The administration of the home, the most important topic of the 
course, considers the control of the income — its economic relation, 
as determined by the standard of life and the opportunities of expen- 
diture, and its apportionment ; first, to the essential factors of the home 
such as food, clothing, shelter, equipment, and higher life; and second, 
to the maintenance of the plant, which includes methods of adminis- 
tration, service and operating expenses. The course closes with a dis- 
cussion of the ethical, economic and social relation between the home 
and the commimity. 



2i6 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

OUTLINE OF COURSE ON THE ECONOMICS OF THE FAMILY, 
WITH BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

I. THE FAMILY. 

History. — *Bosanquet, Helen: The Family (1906), pp. 3-40. *Coulanges, Fiistel 
de: The Ancient City; tr. by Willard Small (1901), Bk. 2, pp. 141-146. Engels, 
Frederick: The Origin of the Family; tr. by Ernest Untermann (1908). Hearn, 
W. H.: The Aryan Household (1891), pp. 63-69. *Parsons, E. C: The Family 
(1906), pp. 248-278. Seligman, E. R. A.: The Principles of Economics (1907), 
pt. 2, pp. 84-89. Sumner, W. G. : The Family and Social Change, Amer.Jour. 
Social., 14 (1909), pp 577-591- 

Foundation. 

Religious. — *Coulanges,Fustelde. :Loc.cit.,bk. i,ch.4;bk. 2, pp. 41-53. *Dike, 
S. W. : Nature's OutUne of the Ideal Family Structure. (Some fundamentals of 
the divorce question.) Special Issue of the National League for the Protection of 
the Family. 

Ethical. — *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit., pp. 241—259. *Coulanges, Fustel de: 
Loc. cit.,bk. 2, pp. 123-131. Harris, George :Moral Evolution (1896), pp. 362-368. 
*Parsons, E. C: Loc. cit., pp. 327-341. *Sutherland, Alexander: The Origin and 
Growth of the Moral Instinct (1898), v. 2, pp. 128-157. *Thwing, C. F. :The 
Family (1887), pp. 91-111. Watt, W. Z. : A Study of Social Morality (1901), pp. 
147-150. 

Economic. — Bosanquet, Helen: The Strength of the People (1902), pp. 180-210. 
Tenny, E. P. : Contrasts in Social Progress (1907), pp. 72-124. 

Sociological. — *Bosanquet, Helen: The Family, pp. 193-220; Campbell, R. J.: 
Christ and the Social Order (1907), pp. 259-275. Comte, Auguste: The Positive 
Philosophy (3 ed., 1893), v. 2, pp. 105-115. Oilman, C. P. S. : How Home Condi- 
tions React upon the Family, Amer. Jour. Social., 14 (1909), pp. 592 606. Letour- 
neau, Charles: Sociology (1881), bk. 4, pp. 386-401. *Mayo-Smith, Richmond: 
Statistics and Sociology (1907), v. i, pt. 2, pp. 181-206. *McKechnie, W. S.r The 
State and the Individual (1896), pp. 341-362. 

Disintegration. — *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit., pp. 193—220; *Muirhead, J. H. : 
Is the Family Declining? International Journal of Ethics, 7 (1896), No. T,pp. 
33-35. *Pearson, C. H. : National Life and Character (1894), pp. 240-274. 
*Thwing, C. F. : Loc. cit., pp. 152-186. 

Function. — *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit., pp. 221-240. Howard, G. E. : State 
Control and the Function of the Family. Congress of Arts and Science, ed. by 
Howard J. Rogers (1906), v. 7, pp. 699-722. Small, A. W., and Vincent. G. E.: 
An Introduction to the Study of Society (1894), bk. 4, pp. 237-250. 

Constituent Parts. 
The Man. — *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit.,pt. i,pp. 260-278. *Coulanges, Fuste 
de: Loc. cit., pp. 111-123. Hobhouse, L. T.: Morals in Evolution, (1906), pp. 162- 
167. *Howard, G. E.: Matrimonial Institutions, (1904), v. 3, pp. 226-227. 
Hearn, VV. E.: The Aryan Household, (1891), pp. 84-86,97-102,470-473. Par- 
sons, E. C: Loc. cit., pp. 218-247. Pollock, Sir Frederick: The History of English 

*The more important books are starred (See p. 213). 



igio] The Economics of the Family 217 

Law (1899), pp. 399-430. Spencer, Herbert: Principles of sociology (1906), pt. 
3, pp. 606-767. *Sutherland; Alexander: Loc. cit., pp. 158— 287. *Wundt, W. M.: 
Ethics; tr. by E. B. Tichener and others, (1907) v. i, pp. 237. 237—253. 

The Woman. — Blackstone, Sir William: Commentaries, 4th ed., 1899, v. i, pp. 
442—445. *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit.,pt. 2, pp. 268-274, 279-298. *Eversley, 
W. P. : The Law of Domestic Relations (1906), pt. i, pp. 118-448. Gilman, C. P. 
S.; Women and Economists (1900); Do., The Home (1906), IH, pp. 82—101; 
Do., How Home Conditions React upon the Family, Atner. Jour. SocioL, 14, 
(1909), No. 15, pp. 592-621. Hobhouse, L. T. : Morals in Evolution, pt. i, pp. 
134-167, 179-239. *Schouler, James: Domestic Relations (1895), pt. 2, pp. 10, 
34-103. Tenny, E. P. : Contrasts in Social Progress (1907), pp. 72-123. Thomas, 
W. I.: Sex and Society (1907), pp. 56, 233-247, 251-314. Westermarck, Edward: 
Position of Woman in Early Civilization. Sociological Papers (1905), v. i, pp. 
145-161. 

The Child. 

Birth-rate. — *Bonar, James: Malthus and his Work (1885). Brownell. J. L. : 
Significance of the Decline in Birth-rates. Ann. Amer. Acad. Pol. Set., 5 (1894), 
pt. I, pp. 48-89. Fetter, F. A.: The Principles of Economics (1905), pp. 184-194; 
Do., The Essay of Malthus, Yale Review (1898), pp. 152-167. Malthus, T. R.: 
An essay on the Principles of Population (5 ed. 1817), 3 vol. Seligman, E. R. A. : 
Principles of Economics ( 1907) , pt. 2 , pp. 48—65 . *Walker , F. A. : Political Economy 
(i888),pp. 5, 292-305. 

Statistics and Sociology. — *Bailey, W. B.: Modem social conditions (1906), pp. 
87—168. Cummings, John:. Population in the Twelfth Census, Jour. Pol. Econ., 
II (1903), pp. 183-197. *Mayo-Smith, Richmond: Statistics and Sociology (1907), 
pp. 65-93, 112-116. Ross, E. A.: Western Civilization and the Birth-rate, Amer. 
Jour. Social., 12 (1906) pp. 607— 632. *Tenny, A. A. : Social Democracy and Pop- 
ulation (1907), pp. 16-27. Wilcox, W. F.: Race Suicide. (LaFollette,R. M. ed. 
The Making of America), (1905), v. 10, pp. 207-217. 

Modern Influences. 
Economic. 

Food Supply. — Doubleday, Thomas: The True Law of Population, shown to be 
Connected with the Food of the People (1853). *Patten, S. N. : Development of 
English Thought (1889), pp. 382-387. Thomas, W. I.: Differences in the Metab- 
olism of the Sexes (1897), p. 31—36. 

Cost of Living atid Income. — *Bailey, W. B.: Modern Social Conditions (1906), 
pp. 360-368. Patten, S. N. : The New Basis of Civilization (1907), pp. 35-193. 
*Seager, H. R. : Introduction to Economics (1908), pp. 289-294. 

Sociological. — Beaulieu, Pierre Leroy : The United States in the Twentieth Century 
tr. by Addington Bruce (1907), pt. i, pp. 45-58. Engelmann, G. J. : Education not 
the Cause of Race Decline, Pop. Sci. Monthly, 63 (1903), pp. 172-184. *Geddes 
and Thompson: The Evolution of Sex (1908), pp. 299-315. *Graham, William: 
The Social Problem (1901), bk, 4, pp. 432-448. Hall, G. S., and Smith, T. I.: 
Marriage and Fecundity of College Men and Women, Pedagogical Seminary (1903) 
V. 10, pp. 275-314. *Hobson, J. A.: The Social Problem (1901), bk. 2, pp. 
432-448. *Parsons,E. C: Loc. cit., pp. 44-59. 340-355. Spencer, Herbert : Prin- 



2i8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

ciples of Sociology (1906), v. i, pt. 3, pp. 603-605, 605-612. *Weber, A. F. : The 
Growth of Cities in the Nineteenth Century (1899), v. 2, pp. 330-341. 

Status of Child. 

Tribal. — *Coulanges, Fustel de: Loc cit., pp. 61-71. *Hearn, W. E. : Loc. cit., 
pp. 72-96, 102-107. Kidd, Dudley: Savage Children: A Study of Kafir Children 
(1906). Spencer, Herbert: Loc. cit., vol. i, pt. 2, pp. 744-763. Thomas, W. I.: 
Sex and Society (1907), pp. 55-94. 

Duration of Parental Care. — *Bosanquet, Helen:Loc. cit., pp. 227— 230. *Parsons 
E. C: Loc. cit., Lect. 2, pp. 26-43, Lect. 5, pp. 90-1 11. Patten, S. N. : Loc. cit., 
1907, pp. 35-36. *Sutherland, Alexander: Loc. cit. pp. 109-153. 

Rights of Children. — *Eversley, W. P.: Domestic Relations (1906), pt. 2, pp. 
575-579. McKechnie, W. S.: The State and the Individual (1896), pp. 343-344. 
*Schouler, James: Loc. cit., pp. 421—444. 

Obligations of Parents and the State. — *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit., pp. 299-313. 
Bosanquet, Helen: The Strength of the People (1902), pp. 184-197. *Eversley, 
W. P.: Loc. cit., pp. 508-549. Hobhouse, L. T.: Morals in Evolution (1906), 
pp. 348-350. Hoffman, F. S.:The Sphere of tlie State (1903), pp. 218-220. 

II. MARRIAGE. 

History. — *Coulanges, Fustel de: Loc. cit., pp. 53-61. Hobhouse, L. T.: Loc. 
cit., pp. 134-177. Letourneau, C. J. M.: The Evolution of Marriage;tr. by Henry 
Trollope (1881), p. 331-400. *Howard, G. E.:Loc. cit., v. i, pp. 4-233. *Thomas, 
W. I.: Loc. cit., pp. 175-201. 

Basi-. — Hamerton, P. G. : Intellectual Life, (1875), pt. 7)PP- 226-272. *McKech- 
nie, W. S.:Loc. cit., pp. 343-362. *Sheldon, W. E.: An Ethical Movement (1896), 
pp. 222-245. *Watt, W. A.: A Study of Social Morality (1901), pp. 150-152. 

Forms. 

Ecclesiastical. — Harrison, Frederic: Realities and Ideals (1908), pp. 146-150. 
*Howard, G. E.: Loc. cit., pp. 264-327. Pollock, Sir Frederic: The History of 
English Law before the Time of Edward I (1899), pp. 364-376. *Schouler, James: 
Loc. cit., pp. 28. 

Civil. — Harrison, Frederic: Loc. cit., pp. 138-147. *Howard, G. E. : Loc cit., v. 
2, pt. 3, pp. 121-263; V. i,pt. 2, pp. 404-473. Lecky, W. E. H. : Democracy and 
Liberty (1896), pp. 151-157. Lubbock, Sir John: Origin of Species (1871), pp. 
50-113. *Schouler, James: Loc. cit., pp. 13-14. 

Legal. 
General Legislation. — Blackstone, Sir William: Commentaries; ed. by J. Dc W. 
Andiews, 4th ed. (1889), v. i, bk. i, pp. 433-440. *Evcrslcy, W. P.: Loc. cit., 
pt. I, pp. 1-118. Harrison, Frederic: Loc. cit., pp. 151-155. *Howard, G. E. : 
Loc. cit., v. 2, pt. 3, pp. 338-497. *Keezer, Frank: Law of Marriage and Divorce 
(iQo6), pp. 1-33, 74-80. Lecky, W. E. H.: Loc. cit., pp. 139-148,177-184. *Story, 
Joseph: Conflict of Laws (1883), pp. 184-188, 227-274. *Wright, C. D.: U. S. 
Commissioner of Labor. Report on Marriage and Divorce in the United States, 
1867-1886 (1889). 



igio] The Economics of the Family 219 

License and Registration — *Howard, G. E. : Loc. cit., v. 3., pp. 170-194. *Hoff- 
man, F. S.:Loc. cit., pp. 214-215. 

Restriction — Blackstone, Sir William: Loc cit. pp. 134-140. *Eversley, W. P. : 
Loc cit., pp. 58-83. Freund, Ernst: The Police Power (1904) pp. 116-117. *Gal- 
ton, Francis: Eugenics; its Definition, Scope and Aims. Sociological Papers, 
(1905), V. I, pp. 45-99. *Galton, Francis: Restriction in Marriage. Sociological 
Papers (1906), v. 2, p. 5-51. *McDougal, W. A. : A Practical Eugenic Suggestion. 
Sociological Papers (1907), v. 3, p. 53-107. Morrow, Prince A.: Social Diseases 
and the Family, Journal of Sociology, 14 (1909), pp. 622-637. 

Conditions. 
Statistics. — *Bailey, W. B.: Modern Social Conditions (1906), pp. 87-142. 
*Mayo-Smith, Richmond: Statistics and Sociology' (1907), PP- 92-103. National 
Leagueforthe Protection of the Family: Ann.Rpt. (1908), pp. 6-7. Smith, M.R.: 
Statistics of College and Non-college Women. Publications of the American Sta- 
tistical Association (1901), v. 7, pp. 1-27. 

Economic. 
Woman's Attitude. — *Bosanquet, Helen: The Family, pp. 287-291. Giddings, 
F. H. : Democracy and Empire (1900), pp. 165-177. Gilman, C. P. S.: Women and 
Economics (1900), pp. 304-317. *Hall, G. S. : Youth and its Education (1907), 
pp. 279-323. Hobhouse, L. T. : Loc. cit., pp. 134-239. Munsterberg, Hugo : 
American Woman (see La Follette, R. M., ed.. The Making of America, (1905), v. 
I, pp. 402-427. *Pearson, C.H.: National Life and Character (1894), pp. 250-295. 

. Annulment and Divorce. 

History. — *Howard, G. E.: Loc. cit., v. i, pp. 224-250. Letoumeau, C. J. M.: 
Loc. cit. (1881), pp. 228-248. Pollock, Sir Frederick: Woman under English Law 
(1899). Westermarck, Edward: History of Human Marriage, pp. 517-535. 

Statistical and Sociological Status. — *Bailey, W. B.: Modern Social Conditions 
(1906), pp. 211-212. Dike, S. W. : Some Fundamentals of the Divorce Question. 
Special issue of the National League for the Protection of the Family for 1909, No, 
I. Mayo-Smith, Richmond: Statistics and Sociology (1907), pp. 116-118. The 
Pennsylvania Commission on divorce. — A codification of existing laws of Penn- 
sylvania on divorce. A proposed new code relating to annulment of marriage and 
divorce and laws relating to return of statistics accompanied by the address, 
resolutions and draft of a vmiform law regulating annulment of marriage and divorce 
as adopted by the National Congress on Uniform Divorce. Rpt. 1906. Penn. 
Cortmaission on Divorce : Rpt, 1906. U. S. Bur. Census. Bull. 96. Marriage and 
divorce, 1887-1906 (1908). The Pennsylvania Bar Association: The Uniform 
Divorce Act. Reported by the Committee on Uniform Legislation, June 25, 1907. 
Weber, A. F.: Growth of Cities (1889), pp. 328-329. 

Relation to Stability of the Family. 

Duration of Marriage before Divorce. — *Howard, G. E. : Loc. cit., pt. 2, pp. 3-1 17. 
Parsons, C. E. : Loc. cit., Lect. 7, pp. 137-160. U. S. Bur. Census Bull. 96, pp. 22-24. 
Westermarck, Edward: Loc. cit., pp. 517-535. 

Family Desertion. — *Baldwin, W. H. : Family Desertion and Non-support Laws 
(1905) . *Brand, Lilian : Five Hundred and Seventy-four Deserters and their Fam- 



220 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

ilies (1905). Wright, C. D: Outline of Practical Sociology (1900), pt. 4, pp. 
159-176. 

General Reaction. — Giddings, F. H.: Principles of Sociology (1896), pp. 350-351. 
Pearson, C. H. : Loc. cit., pp. 257-269. Seligman, E. R. A.: Loc. cit., pp. 165- 
166. Small, A. H. and Vincent, G. E.:Loc. cit., pp. 279-281. 

Legislation. — *Bishop, J. P.: Marriage and Divorce Laws (1891) 2 vols. Black- 
stone, Sir William: Loc. cit., pp. 449-492. Bryce, James: Marriage and Divorce 
under the Roman and the English Law (Studies in History and Jurisprudence, 
i90i),v. 2, pp. 782-859. *Eversley, W. P.: Loc. cit., pp. 449-492. Hoffman, F. 
S.: Loc. cit., pp. 220-228. *Howard, G. E.:Loc. cit., v. 2, pt. 3, pp. 3-160, 203-223, 
328-387. *Keezer, Frank: Loc. cit., pp. 34-192. *Schouler, James.: Loc. cit., 
pp. 215-222. *Story, Joseph: Loc. cit., pp. 275-314; Rpt. 1889, pp. 72-126, 
U. S. Commissioner of Labor, Marriage and Divorce in the United States, 1867- 
1886. *U. S. Bur. Census. Bull. 96. 

III. THE HOME. 

Importance. — Demolins, Edmond: Anglo-Saxon Superiority (1899). Dutton, S. 
T.: Social Phases of Education in Home and School (1909). Gilman, C. P. S.: 
The Home (1903), pp. 14-69. Henderson, C. R.: The Social Spirit of America 
(1901). pp. 23-36. *Richards, Mrs. E. H. : The Cost of Living as Modified by 
Sanitary Science (1903), pp. 9-15. *Thwing, C. F.: Loc. cit., pp. 111-125. 
Wagner, Charles: The Simple Life (1904), p. 128. 

Establishment. 

A. Location. 

Devas, C. S. : Political Economy (1901), p. 191-222. *Patten, S. N.: Loc. cit., 
p. 217. Small, A. H. and Vincent, G. E.: Loc. cit., pp. 242-244. 

Urban. — *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit., pp. 339-342. Campbell, Helen: House- 
hold Economics (2. ed., 1902). Giddings, F. H. : Loc. cit., pp. 346-347. Harris, 
George: Moral Evolution (1896), pp. 367-368. *Henderson, C. R. : Are Modern 
Industry and City Life Unfavorable to the Family? Atner. Jour. SocioL, 14 (1909) 
No. 5, pp. 668-680. Herrick, C. T.: City Tents (1902), pp. 14-33. *Howard, 
G. E.: Loc. cit., v. 3, pp. 227-229. *Mayo-Smith, Richmond: Loc. cit., pp. 365 
372. Rowe, L. S.: Problems of City Government (1908), pp. 62-96. Weber, 
A. P.: Growth of Cities in the Nineteenth Century (1899), pp. 346-407. Wells, 

D. A.: Recent Economic Changes (1899), pp. 352-354. *Wilcox,D. F.: The Study 
of City Government (1897), pp. 238-242. 

Rural. — Henderson, C. R.: Social Spirit in America (1901), pp. 65-71. Powell, 

E. P.: Farming in the Twentieth Century (see LaFollette.R.M., ed. , The making 
of America. 1905. v. 5, p. 431-441). Seager, H. R.: Loc. cit., pp. 11 7-1 19. 
*Weber, A. F. : Loc. cit., pp. 458-474. 

B. Dwelling. 

Significance. — *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit., pt. 3, pp. 72-101; *Mayo-Smith, 
Richmond: Loc. cit., pp. 187-193. *Paulsen, Freidrich: A System of Ethics; tr. 
by Frank Thilly (1900), pp. 515-517- *Schouler, James: Loc. cit., pp. 40-57- 



iQio] The Economics of the Family 221 

Small, A. H. and Vincent, G. E.: Loc. cit., bk. 3, pp. 193-197; bk.4, pp. 273-274. 
Wundt,W. M.: Ethics; tr. by E.B.Tichner and others, (1907) pp. 177-182. 

Owner5/»>.— Bailey, Frank: How a Home Maker may Become an Anarchist, 
World's Work, 23 (1909), No. 115, pp. 76-81. *Bower, H. F.: Building and Loan 
Associations Make both Men and Cities (see La Follette, R. M., ed.. The Making 
of America. 1905,) v. 10, pp. 226-231. Demolins, Edmond: Loc. cit., pp. 174-182. 
Gould, E. R. L. : City and Suburban Homes Company, Ann. Rept. 1908. *Hadley, 
A. T.: Economics (1897), pp. 387-390. Seligman, E. R. A: Loc. cit., pp. 125-138. 
Wright, CD.: Loc. cit., pp. 316-318. 

Rent.— *Carver, T. N.: The Distribution of Wealth (1904), pp. 185-212. 
Johnson, A. S.: Rent on Modem Economic Theory (1902). *Marshall, Alfred: 
Principles of Economics (5. ed. 1907), v. i, bk. 6, pp. 627-659. Patten, S. N.: 
Consumption of Wealth, pp. 52-61. *Walker, F. A. : Land and its Rent (1891) pp. 
5-57- 

Building Lots. — *Commons, J. R.: Distribution of Wealth, pp. 136-144. Hurd, 
R. M.: Principles of City Land Value (1903), pp. 1-21. *Seager, H. R.: Loc. cit., 
pp. 117-119, 205-221. 

FoMje.— *Herrick, C. T.: Loc. cit., pp. 2-5. Pierson, N. G.: Principles of 
Economics (1902), v. 2, pp. 127-167. *Richards, Mrs. E. H.: Loc. cit., pp. 
40-49. Terrill, Miss B. M.: Household Management (1907) pp. 21-26. Wells, 
D. A.: Loc. cit., pp. 355-413- 

C. Income. 

Cannan, Edwin: Division of Income, Quarterly Jour. Econ., 19 (1905), pp. 341- 
369. Demolins, Edmond :Loc. cit., pp. 150-152. *Devine, E. T.: Economics (1902), 
pp. 73-1 1 1- *Fetter, F. A. : Loc. cit., pp. 39-45. *Marshall, Alfred: Principles of 
Economics, v. 5, bk. 2, pp. 71-78. Patten, S. N.: Consumption of Wealth. Selig- 
man, E. R. A.: Loc. cit., pt. 3, bk. 2, pp. 275-285. Smart, William: Studies in 
Economics (1895), pp. 277-295. Walker, F. A. : Political Economy, pt. 5, pp. 293- 
314- 

A dministration. 

Control of the Income. 

A . Economic Relations. 

Standard of Life. 

Economic Function of Women. — Addams, Jane: Newer Ideals of Peace (1907), 
pp. 180-208. Campbell, Helen: Household economics (2. ed. 1902), pp. 127-146. 
*Carleton, F. T. : Education and Industrial Evolution (1908), pp. 96-126. Jevon, 
W. S. : Principles of Economics (1905) , pp. 85-89. *Patten, S. N. : Development of 
English Thought (1899), PP- 251-259. Patten, S. N. : The New Basis of Civiliza- 
tion (1907), pp. 89-91. Thomas, W. I. : Loc. cit., pp. 95-134- Thompson, H. B. : 
Psychological Norms in Men and Women (1903). Ward, L. F.: Psychic Factors, 
(1893). PP- 174-180, 196-207. 

Necessaries and Luxuries. — Devas, C. S. : Loc. cit., pp. 136-139. Freund, Ernst : 
The Police Power (1904), pp. 457-459. Hamerton, P. G.: French and English: 
A Comparison (1889), pt. 6, pp. 301-315- Hobson, J. A.: The Social Problem 
(1901), pp. 78-87. Laveleye, Emile de: The Elements of Political Economy (1889), 
bk. 4, pp. 249-254. *MarshaIl, Alfred.: Loc. cit., v. i,bk. 5, pp. 474-476. Rae, 
John: The Sociological Theory of Capital; ed. by C. W. Mixter (1905), Appendix, 



222 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

arts. 1 , 2, 3, pp. 246-296. *Seager, H. R. : Loc. cit., pp. 72-76; Seligman, E. R. A. : 
Loc. cit., pp. 676-680. 

Saving and Spending. — Ely, R. T.: Law of Social Service (1896), pp. 233-246. 
*Fetter, F. A. : Loc. cit., pt. i, pp. 159-169. *Gonner, E. C. K. : Interest and Sav- 
ing (1906) pp. 3-424. Hamilton, J. H,: The Educational Aspects of Saving, 
Quarterly Jotir. Econ., 13 (1898), pp. 45-69. Johnson, A. S.: Influences Affecting 
Thrift, PoliL Sci. Quarterly, 22 (1907), pp. 224-244. *Richardson, B. J.: The 
Woman Who Spends (1904). *Seager, H. R. : Loc. cit., pp. 76-77, 297-301. 

Opportunities of Expenditure. 

Markets. — Biicher, Carl: Industrial Evolution (tr. from 3. ed. by S. Morley 
Wickett, 1901), pp. 244-315. Carver, T. N.: Loc. cit., pp. 1-52. Clark, J. B.: 
The Philosophy of Wealth (1892) pp. i-io, 70-91. *Fetter, F. A.: Loc. cit., pp. 
15-38. *Flux, A. W.: Economic principles (1904), pp. 32-42. *Hobson, J. A.: 
Loc. cit., bk. 2, pp. 141-173. Keasbey, Lindley: Prestige Value, Quarterly Jour. 
Econ., 17 (1903), pp. 456-475. *Marshall, Alfred: Loc. cit., v. i, bk. 3, pp. 83- 
137. *Mill, J.S.: Principles of Political Economy, v. i,bk. i, pp. 53-71, bk. 2, pp. 
306-310. Ruskin, John: Unto this Last (1896). *Seager, H. R.: Loc. cit., pp. 46 
-54, 81-107. Seligman, E. R. A,:Loc. cit., pt. 3, bk. i, pp. i73~239- Smith, 
Adam: Wealth of Nations (1853), bk. i, pp. 2-6. *Sparling, S. E.: Introduc- 
tion to Business Organization (1906) pp. 153-156. *Walker, F. A.: Loc. cit., 
pt. 3, pp. 78-108. Webb, S. B.: Industrial Democracy (1897), v. 2, pp. 654-702. 

Municipal. — Conkling, A. R.: City Goverrmaent in the United States, 
(1894), pp. 181-184. *Fairlie, J. A.: Municipal Administration (1901), pp. 307- 
351, Hatton, A. R.: Digest of City Charters (1906), pt. 3. Zueblin, Charles: 
American Mimicipal Progress (1902), pp. 17, 126-127. 

Wholesale. — *Sparling, S. E.: Introduction to Business Organization (1906), 
pp. 253-262. Wells, D. A. : Recent Economic Changes (1899), pp. 450-454. 

Retail.— BiichneT, Carl : Loc. cit. ( 1901) , pp. 308-31 1 . Hobson, J. A. : The Evolu- 
tion of Modern Capitalism (1906), pp. 141-166. Jenks, J.W.: The Trust Problem 
(i9oi),pp. 10-14. *Sparling,S. E.: Loc. cit., pp. 262-269. Wells,D. A.: Loc. cit. 

(1899), pp. 114-190- 

Regulation. — *Brooks, J. G. : The Consumers' League : The Principles upon which 
it Rests and the Practicability of its Enforcement (1904). Freund, Ernst: Loc. cit. 
(1904), pp. 27-120. Hadley, A. T.: Standards of Public Morality (1907), pp. 33- 
62. Kelly, Mrs. Florence: Aims of the Consumers' League, Amer. Jour. Sociol., 
5 (1899), No. 3, pp. 289-304. *Kelly, Mrs. Florence : Some Ethical Gains through 
Legislation (1905) pp. 209-245. National Consumers' League, Ann. Rpts. 

Budgets. — *Chapin, R. C. : Standard of Living among Workingmen's Families in 
New York City (1909). Marshall, Alfred: Loc. cit., pp. 113-116. *More, L. B.: 
Wage-earners' Budgets : A Study of Standards and Costs of Living in New York City 
(1907). Richards, Mrs. E. H.: Loc. cit. Rowntree, B. S.: Poverty : A Study of 
Town Life (3. ed. 1902). *Seager, H. R. : Loc. cit. pp. 78-80. U. S. Commissioner 
of Labor, 18 Ann. Rpt. 1903 : Cost of Living and Retail Prices of Food. 



19 1 o] The Economics of the Family 223 

B. Apportionment of the Income. 

Essentials of the Home. 

Food. 

Ethics. — Oilman, C. P. S.: The Home, its Work and Influence (1903), pp. 184- 

205. Hamerton, P. G. : Loc. cit., pp. 379-382. *Herrick, C. T. : Loc. cit., pp. 148- 

159. *Hobhouse, L. T.: Loc. cit., pp. 351-353, 346-348. Watt, W. A.: A Study 

of Social Morality (1901), pp. 156-157. Wundt, W. M.: Loc. cit., pp. 169-177. 

Ecohomic. 

Birth-rate. — Doubleday, Thomas: The True Law of Population (1853). *Mayo- 
Smith, Richmond: Loc. cit., pp. 74-76. Patten, S. N. : Consumption of Wealth 
(1889), pp. 9-30. The Development of English Thought, pp. 382-387. Theory of 
Dynamic Economics (1889). Thomas, W. I.: Differences in Metabolism of the 
Sexes, pp. 32-36. 

Material Development. — Bosanquet, Helen : Loc. cit., pp. 41-43. Letourneau, CD. : 
Sociology (1881), pp. 1-41. *Patten, S. N. : The Development of English Thought, 
PP- 379~385. *Do.: New Basis of Civilization, pp. 12-27. *Paulsen, Freidrich: 
Loc. cit. pp., 506-575. 

Price. — *Patten,S. N. : The Development of English Thought, pp. 198-199. *Do : 
New Basis of Civilization, pp. 15-27. *U. S. Commissioner of Labor, 18 Ann. 
Rpt. 1903, pt. 2, pp. 635-853. 

Clothing. 

Ancient Laws. — Cleveland, A. R. : Woman imder English law (1896), pp. 76-80. 

Ethics. — *Paulsen, Freidrich: Loc. cit., pp. 517-519. Ross, E. A.: Social Psy- 
chology (1908), pp. 94-108. Thomas, W. I.: Modesty and Clothing, Amer. 
Jour. Social., s (1899), no. 2, pp. 246-262. *Thomas, W. I.: Sex and Society, pp. 
215-220. Wimdt, W. M.: Loc. cit., pp. 182-193. 

Economic. — (See Budgets). 

Sociology. — Kropotkin, P.: Conquest of Bread (1907), pp. 215-220. *Letour- 
neau, C. D. : Loc. cit., bk. 2, pp. 78-94. *Patten, S. N. : The Development of Eng- 
lish Thought, pp. 195-198. *Richards, Mrs. E. H.: Loc cit., pp. 82-88. 

Shelter. — (See Location). 

Equipment. — Campbell, Helen: Loc cit., pp. 107-126. *Carlton, F. T. : Loc. cit., 
*Herrick, C. R. : Loc. cit., pp. 33-77. Patten, S. N. : The New Basis of Civilization, 
pp. 140-141. Terrill, Miss, B. M.: Loc. cit., pp. 104-126. 

Higher Life. — Henderson, C. R. : The Social Spirit of America (i90i),pp. 240-259. 
Herrick, C. T. : Loc. cit., pp. 184-193. *Paulsen, Freidrich: Loc cit., pp. 527-528. 
Veblen, Thorstein : The Theory of the Leisure Class (1899), pp. 33-67. 

Maintenance of the Plant. 
Methods of Administration. — *Addams, Jane: Newer Ideals of Peace (1907), 
pp. 180-208. Campbell, Helen: Loc. cit., pp. 127-146. *Carleton, F. T.:Loc. cit., 
pp. 96-126. Gihnan, C. P. S.: Himaan Work (1904). Do.: The Home (1903), 
pp. 82-123. *Patten, S. N.: The Development of English Thought, pp. 251-259. 
Do.: The New Basis of Civilization (1907) pp. 89-91. Thomas, W. L: Loc. cit., 
pp. 95-134. Thompson, H. B.: Loc. cit. Ward, L. F.: Loc. cit., pp. 174-180, 
196-207. 



224 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Legal Responsibility. — *Loeb, Isidor: The Legal Property Relation of Married 
Parties (1900), pt. i, pp. 46-49. *Schouler, James:Loc. cit.,p. 43. 

Business and Accounts. — Benjamin, J. P. : Treatise on the Law of Sales. Black- 
stone, Sir William: Loc. cit., pp. 464-471. *Bean, B. C, ed.: The Business Men's 
Library (1905). *Coffin, CM.: A Primer on Banking (1901). Fetter,F. A.: Loc. 
cit.,pp. 462-470. *Hadley, A. T. : Economics, pp. 386-390. *Haskins, C. W. : How 
to Keep Household Accounts (1903). Loeb, Isidor: Loc. cit., pt. 2, pp. 153-155. 
Pendergast, W. A.: Credit and its Uses (1906), pp. 3-15, 82-98. Seager, H. R.: 
Loc. cit., pp. 323-344. *Sparling, S. E.: Loc. cit., pp. 134-160, 199-252, 334-366. 
Walker, F. A.: Discussions in Economics and Statistics (1882), pp. 127-156. 

Service. 

No Employees. — *Herrick, C. T. : Loc. cit., pp. 77-104. Hunt, C. L. : Home Prob- 
lems from a New Standpoint (1908). *Rubinow, D. I.: Domestic Service, Amer. 
Jour. Social., 14 (1900), No. 5, pp. 614-619. 

Employees. — * Abbott, Edith : The Wages of Unskilled Labor in the United States, 
1850-1900 (1905). *Carver, T. N.: Loc. cit., pp. 134-184. Commons, J. R.: 
Loc .cit., pp. 134-184. *Wetter, F. A.: Loc. cit., p^. 173-183. *Marshall, Alfred: 
Loc. cit., pp. 525-533. Low, Maurice: Cause of High Wages (see La FoUette, R. 
M., ed., The Making of America, 1905), v. 8, pp. 262-274. Richards, John: Com- 
pensation of Skilled Labor (See La Follette, R. M., ed.,The Making of America, 
i905)> V. 8, pp. 275-290. Seligman, E. R. A. : Loc. cit., pp. 4-199. Wundt, W. M. : 
Loc. cit. (1907), pp. 193-198. 

Payment — Oilman, N. P.: Profit-sharing and Cooperation (see LaFolIette, R. 
M., ed., The Making of America, 1905), v. 8, pp. 302-318. Outerbridge, A. E.: 
Premium System of Wage Payment (see La Follette, R. M., ed., 1905), v. 8, pp. 
291-301. *Sparling, S. E.: Loc cit., 143-151. 

Employment Offices. — Devine, E. T.: Employment Bureau for the People of New 
York City, Ann. Amer. Acad. Polit. and Social Sci., v. 33, no. 2, pp. 1-14. *Herrick, 
C. T.: Loc. cit., pp. 78-80. *Kellor, F. A.: Out of Work (1904). Do.: The Intelli- 
gence OflBce, 4 //aniic Monthly, 94 (1904) pp. 458-464. Salmon, L.M.: Domestic 
Service (1901), pp. 115-117. 

Legal Status. — Blackstone, Sir William: Loc. cit., v. i,bk. i, pp. 422-433. *Evers- 
ley, W. P.: Loc cit., pt. 5, pp. 859-936. Olmstead, V. H. and Fessenden, S. D.: 
Employer and Employee under the Common Law (1901). (Monographs on socia' 
economics, ed. by Chas. H. Verrill, No. 3, 1901.) *Shouler, James: Loc. cit., 
pt. 6, pp. 156-167. Stimson, F. J.: Handbook to the Labor Laws of the United 
States (1896), pp. 35-46, 156-167. U. S. Commissioner of Labor, 10 Special 
Rpt. 1904, Labor Laws of the United States. 

Domestic Service. — *Salmon, L. M.:Loc. cit. Do.: Progress in the Household 
(1906), pp. 1-35. Terrill, Miss B. M.: Loc. cit., pp. 181-184. *U. S. Industrial 
Commission: Special Rpt. 1901, v. 14, pp. 743-767. Domestic Service. (Also 
see Labor Manufacturing and General Business.) 

Particular Phases. 
Historical. — Addams, Jane: Loc. cit., pp. 198-202. *Pearson, C. H.: Loc. cit., 
pp. 271-273. *Seligman, E. R. A.: Loc. cit., pp. 89-98. 



iQio] The Economics of the Family 225 

Sociological.— *A.ddsLms, Jane : Democracy and Social Ethics, pp. 102-136. Bell, 
Florence: The Lot of the Servant, Littel's Living Age, 235 (1902), Oct. 23, pp. 205- 
215. Kelsey, Carl: The Evolution of the Negro Laborer (see La FoUette, R. M., 
ed, The Making of America, 1905), v. 8, pp. 386-407. Klink, J. S.: Put Your- 
self in her Place, Atlantic Monthly, 95 (1905) Feb. pp. 159-177. Do.: The House- 
keeper's Responsibility, Atlantic Monthly, 95 (1905)) Feb. pp. 372-381. Kro- 
potkin. P.: Loc cit., pp. i44-i55- *Sparling, S. E.: Loc cit., pp. 21-29. 

Adjustments. — Booth, Charles: Life and Labour of the People in London (2. 
series, 1903), v. 4, pp. 207-221. Eaton, Isabel: Negro Domestic Service, Pub. 
Univ. Penn. Series in Political Economy and Public Law (1899), No. 14, pp. 500- 
509. *Herrick, C. T.: Loc. cit., pp. 11 2-1 2 2, 134-138, 158-164. Pettengill, Lillian: 
Toilers of the Home (1903). 

Operating Expenses, 

Rent — (See Location). 

Light, Power and Heat.— Foote, A. R.: Methods of Charge, Municipal Public 
Service (1899), pp. 219-223. Rowe, I. S. : Loc. cit., pp. 241-271, 344-345. 

Taxes.— *Ad3.ms, H. C: Science of Finance (1898), pt. 2,bk. 2, pp. 286-38. 
Daniels, W. M. : The Elements of Public Finance (1889) . *Ely, R. T. : Taxation in 
American Cities and States (1888), pp. 3-305. *Seager, H. R. : Loc. cit., pp. 548- 
555, 572-578. *Seligman, E. R. A. : Shifting and Incidence of Taxation, pt. i, pp. 
60-65, pt. 2, pp. 233-246, 260-268, 307. *Seligman, E. R. A.: Progressive Tax in 
Theory and Practice (2 ed. Amer. Econ., Asso. Quarterly, 9, 1908), No. 4, pp. 310- 
315. Roosevelt, Theodore: President's Message to the 59 Congress, 2 Sess., 
(Dec. 3, 1906). West, Max: The Income Tax, Studies in History, Economics and 
Public Law (1893), v. 4, pp." 182-302, Coltunbia College. 

Insurance. — *Blackstone, Sir William: Loc cit., v. i, bk, 2, pp. 459-463. Demo- 
lins, Edmond: Loc .cit., pp. 150-152. *Fetter, F. A.: Loc. cit., pp. 337-338. 
♦Marshall, Alfred: Loc. cit., v. i, bk. 5, pp. 398-400. Seligman, E. R. A. : Principles 
of Economics, pp. 641-654. 

Depreciation and Upkeep.— *Be&n, B.C.: The Cost of Production, Business Man's 
Library (1904-5), v. 5. Demolins, Edmond: Loc. cit., pp. 147-150. 

Ethical, Economic and Social Relations of the Home. 
Responsibility of the Home to the Community. 

Extended Function of Women. — *Addams, Jane: Newer Ideals of Peace, pp. 180- 
207. Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit., pp. 336-337. Oilman, C. P. S.: Loc. cit., pp. 
206-229. Harrison, Frederic: Loc cit., pt. 2, pp. 73-91. *Howard, O. E.: Social 
Control and the Function of the Family (see International Congress of Arts and 
Sciences, ed. by H. J. Rogers, 1905). McKechnie, W. S. : The State and the Indi- 
vidual (1896), pp. 342-343. 

Ethical.— Ely, R. T. : Law of Social Service (1896), pp. 143-156. Sheldon, W. L. : 
An Ethical Movement (1896), pp. 304-349. Sutherland, Alexander: The Origin 
and Growth of the Moral Instinct (1898), v. 2, pp. 134-173. 

Legal. — *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc. cit., pp. 72-101. *Coulanges, Fustel de: 
Loc. cit., bk. 2, pp. 93-110. *Hobson, J. A.: Loc. cit., bk. 2, pp. 112-122. *Loeb, 
Isidor: Loc. cit.,pt. 3, pp. 155-175- Parsons, E. C. : Loc. cit., pp. 92-94. Raleigh, 
Thomas: An Outline of the Law of Property (1890), pp. 107-110. Roosevelt, 



2 26 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Theodore: Loc. cit. Seligman, E. R.A.: Shifting and Incidence of Taxation, pt. 
2, p. 299. Seligman, E. R. A.: Essays on Taxation (1905), p. 121. Story, Joseph: 
Loc. cit., pp. 275-314, 641-692. *West, Max : Inheritance Tax, Studies in History, 
Economics, and Public Law; ed. by the Faculty of Political Science of Columbia 
College (1893), V. 4, pp. 182-302. Huebner, Solomon: The Inheritance Tax in 
the American Commonwealths, Qwar/er/y Jour. Econ., 18 (1904), August, pp. 529- 
548. Millis, H. A. : The Inheritance Tax, Quarterly Jour. Econ., 19 (1905)) Feb., pp. 
288-301. 

Responsibility of the Community to the Home. — *Patten, S. N. : The New Basis of 
Civilization, pp. 124, 192. Jastrow, J.: The Urban Community (International 
Congress of Arts and Science, ed. by H. J. Rogers (1905-07), pp. 770-772. 

Municipality. — Fairlie, John A. : Muncipal Administration (i90i),pt. 2, pp. 125- 
181, 254-260, 270-313. Frevmd, Ernst: Loc. cit., pp. 642-644. Goodnow, 
J. : City Government in the United States (1904). Rowe, L. S.: Loc cit., pp. 344- 
349. *Wilcox, Delos F. : Loc. cit. 

Property. 

Early Tribal Forms. — Hearn, W. H.: Loc. cit., pp. 74-84. Loria, Achille: The 
Economic Foundations of Society; tr. by Lindley M. Keasbey (1899), pp. 87-100. 
*Thwing, C. F.: Loc. cit., pp. 126-133. 

Influence. *Bosanquet, Helen: Loc cit., i, ch. 4, pp. 72-101. *Commons, J. R., 
Loc. cit., pp. 86-101. Coulanges, Fustel de: Loc. cit., bk. 2, ch. 6, pp. 72-101. 
Hoffman, F. S.: The Sphere of the State (3. ed., 1903), pp. 218-220. 

Legal. — Benjamin, J. P. : A Treatise on the Law of Sale of Personal Property 
with reference to American Decisions (1877). Blackstone, Sir William: Loc cit., 
V. I, bk. 2, pp. 1-16. *Eversley, W. P.: Loc. cit., pt. 2, ch. 4, p. 550-574. *Loeb, 
Isidor: Loc. cit. Raleigh, Thomas: Loc. cit., pp. i-ii, 23-29. *Schouler, James : 
Loc. cit., pt. I, p. 9, pt. 2, pp. 171-196, 214. 



A SUGGESTED COURSE IN HOUSEHOLD 
ADMINISTRATION. 

Such a course as the economics of the family could be offered in any 
college or it could be made part of a foui years' course in household 
administration as here suggested. 

The development of courses in business administration has opened 
the question whether or not similar courses can be developed in house- 
hold administration. If the maintenance of a home is an industry 
which should be conducted upon a business basis, then the same 
arguments for a course in business administration for the business man 
may hold for a course in household administration for the home woman. 

This suggested course in household administration is submitted as 
an illustration of what may be done in colleges having a department 



The Economics of the Family 227 

of Home Economics, through the selection and arrangement of courses 
in the college of literature and arts and the department of Home 
Economics, during the four years of college work. 

It is planned for students in the college of literature and arts who 
want a general education w^hich will prepare them for the administra- 
tion of the home in its domestic and social relations. The following 
discussion of the subjects of study has been adapted from a discussion 
of the courses in Business Administration.^'' 

A home woman, conducting her home as a business, must know how 
to live with and cooperate with her fellow-men. She must know, in 
the second place, the materials handled in her business. This knowl- 
edge comes from scientific and technical study, and is secured through 
the department of household science, with its prerequisites in the 
departments of art and design, biology, and chemistry. She must 
know, too, the principles of business organization and their relation to 
the general industrial organization. This part of her training comes 
from the study of economics and sociology. 

The course of study comprises, therefore, not only subjects which 
have a direct bearing upon the business organization of the home, 
but also those whose purpose is to broaden and liberalize the student's 
intellectual horizon and character. For general, as well as special 
reasons, the student of the home should study education, literature, 
philosophy and pure science. She should have some knowledge of 
history and political economy, and should have at least a general knowl- 
edge of such subjects as conamercial law, contracts, money, banking 
and accounting. 

The course therefore furnishes a liberal education, the subject matter 
of which deals mainly with present day problems connected directly 
or indirectly with the home. The "core of the course" is the work 
in economics — the principles of economics, a beginners' course in the 
imderlying principles ; the economics of the family ; principles of account- 
ing; and commercial law. The economics of the family, in addition 
to the discussion of the fanuly, emphasizes the administrative side of 
the business of the home. It includes a study of the business methods 
and legal requirements of the home as a business organization and of 
the woman as a business manager. 

^'Courses in Business Administration, Univ. of Illinois Bull, 5 (1908), No. 36, 
pp. 6-7. 



228 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[AprU 



OUTLINE OF THE COURSE. 



FIRST YEAR (aLL SUBJECTS PRESCRIBED). 

First Semester {17 Hours). 
Rhetoric-Themes (Rhetoric i).^* 
Free hand drawing (Art and Design i). 
Home architecture and sanitation 

(Household Science 2). 
A foreign language. 
Physical training. 
Hygiene (Physiology 6) . 
Introductory course: English Literature 

before the nineteenth century (English 

I). 

Second Semester {15 Hours) 
Rhetoric-themes (Rhetoric i). 
Freehand drawing (Art and Designi). 
A foreign language. 
Physical training. 
Introductory zoology (Zoology 10). 

SECOND YEAR. 

First Semester. 
Prescribed Subjects (18 Hours). 
Color problems (Architecture 41). 
Inorganic chemistry (Chemistry i). 
Principles of economics (Economics i). 
A foreign language or history. 
Textiles (Household Science 7). 

Suggested Electives. 

Bacteriology (Botany 5). 

Qualitative chemistry (Chemistry 3). 

Continental European history (His- 
tory 1). 

Ancient and medieval philosophy 
(Philosophy 3). 

Second Semester. 
Prescribed Subjects {15 Hours). 
Economics of the family (Economics 
16). 



A foreign language or history. 

Principles and selection of food (House- 
hold Science i). 

Household art and clothing (House- 
hold Science 12). 

Suggested Electives. 

Inorganic chemistry (Chemistry 2). 
Qualitative chemistry (Chemistry 3). 
Continental European history (His- 
tory i). 
Modern philosophy (Philosophy 4). 



THIRD YEAR. 

First Semester. 

Prescribed Subjects {14 Hours). 

Economic uses of food (Household 

Science 6) . 
Minor course in physiology (Physiology 

4). 
Elementary psychology (Psychology 

I). 
General sociology (Sociology i). 

Suggested Electives. 

English, a foreign language or history. 

A short history of architecture (Archi- 
tecture 29a). 

Agricultural analysis (Chemistry 13a). 

History of education (Education 2) 
required for Education 13. 

Medieval culture (History 8). 

College algebra (Mathematics 2) required 
for Mathematics 29. 

American federal government (Political 
Science i). 

Introductory zoology (Zoology 10) 

Required for Zoology 2. 



'' For a description of the courses referred to by number see Univ. of Illinois Circ. 
of Information of the College of Literature and Arts, 1908. 



I9I0J 



The Economics of the Family 



229 



Second Semester. 

Prescribed Subjects {14 Hours). 

History of education (Education 2).^' 
Dietetics (Household Science 5). 
Elementary home decoration (House- 
hold Sciences). 
Commercial law (law B). 
Genetic psychology (Psychology 5). 

Suggested Electives. 

English, a foreign language or history. 

A short history of architecture (Archi- 
tecture 29a). 

Organic chemistry (Chemistry 9a, 9c). 

The Renaissance (History 9). 

Averages and the mathematics of inves- 
tigation (Mathematics 29). 

Vertebrate and comparative zoology 
(Zoology 2) required for Zoology 3. 



FOURTH YEAR. 

First Semester. 

Prescribed Subjects (j Hours). 

Principles of accoimting (Accoimtancy 

I). 
History of Home Economics (Household 

Science 13). 
Household management (Household 

Science 10). 



Suggested Electives. 

History and criticism of art (Architec- 
ture 29b). 

Sanitary analysis (Chemistry loa). 

Educational classics (Education 13). 

Esthetics (Philosophy 8). 

Comparative and genetic sociology 
(Sociology 3). 

Vertebrate embryology (Zoology 3). 

Second Semester. 
Prescribed Subjects (j Hours). 

Principles of accounting (Accountancy 

I). 
Seminar (Household Science 9). 

Suggestive Electives. 

History and criticism of art (Architec- 
ture 29b). 

Food analysis (Chemistry 5c). 

Social phase? of education (Education 
16). 

Ethical ideals (Philosophy 6). 

Physiological psychology (Psychology 

9). 

Charities, corrections, and urban prob- 
lems (Sociology s). 

Vertebrate embryology (Zoology 3) 



APPENDIX. 



Personal correspondence with instructors in charge of courses including a dis- 
cussion of the family in six women's colleges and in two of the universities is 
appended. 

BRYN MAWR COLLEGE. 

The only work here in Bryn Mawx College in the economics of the family as 
I understand your thesis subject, comes in my coiirse in social institutions, a post- 
major (open only to students who have had twenty semester hours of economics and 
politics) course of two hours for two semesters. 

In this course we spend considerable time in studying various sociological, an- 
thropological and biological theories as to the origin of the family in the state and 

^■•Instead of Education 2, Education i may be elected in the first semester 
of the fourth year. 



230 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

in society in general: especially the economic function of women in the family 
and the status of women. Attention is paid to standards of living and the problem of 
the relation of wage rates to the family standards. 

Certain problems of family economics are naturally discussed in some of the other 
courses: especially in connection with problems of consumption, but I think the 
only detailed studies are made in the advanced course. 

Hoping that this to some degree answers your questions, I am, 

Sincerely yours, 
[Signed] Marion Parris. 

Department of Economics and Politics, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, March 1 5 , 1909. 

MOUNT HOLYOKE COLLEGE. 

In reply to your letter of March 9, 1 would say that " the economic study of the 
private home " is not treated directly in our courses here. It is, however, considered 
indirectly in the discussion of womeninindustryinthecourseonthelaborproblera, 
in the treatment of the problem of child labor, the sweating system, and in the con- 
sideration of measures tending to maintain the standard of living of the laboring 
classes and looking to the elimination of poverty. These latter questions are con- 
sidered in our courses in social economics. 

Very truly yours , 
[Signed] Emille J. Hutchinson. 

Department of Economics and Sociology, South Hadley, Massachusetts, March 22, 

1909. 

See Bulletin of Mount Holyoke College, November,i9o8, Series 2, No. 2, p. 42-43- 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY. 

My course on the distribution of wealth at Radcliffe is confined entirely to the 
study of the main shares in the distribution of the products of industry, namely, 
wages, rent, interest, and profits. I pay no attention in this course to what may 
be called the economics of the household or the distribution of family income among 
the various expenditures. In other words, I drop the subject as soon as the wealth 
has become income and do not follow it up beyond that point. Therefore, the whole 
question of the economics of expenditure is left out. 

Very truly yours, 
[Signed] T. N. Carver. 

Department of Economics, Cambridge, Massachusetts, March 10, 1909. 

THE woman's college OF BALTIMORE. 

In course T2 I deal briefly by lecture with the economics of the family after treat- 
ing the history of the family and its present status. I deal with the specialization 
of household industries and their removal from the home and the radical views of 
Prof. Patten and Mrs. Oilman and the replies of the conservatives. 

Yours truly, 
[Signed] Thaddeus P. Thomas. 

Baltimore, Md., March 3, 1909. 
See The Woman's College of Baltimore Catalog for 1909, p. 57. 



19 lo] The Economics of the Family 231 

VASSAR COLLEGE. 

Vassar College does nothing whatever along the lines you mention . The theory of 
the college is that its function is to give a general, not a specialized education, and 
that therefore it ought not to give special courses on the family, home, or household 
any more than it gives special courses on law or medicine. Under another cover I 
am sending you a catalog that will show you the general line of subjects taken up. 
I am sorry to have so meager a report. 

Sincerely yours, 
[Signed] Lucy M. Salmon. 

Department of History, Poughkeepsie, New York, March 3, 1909. 
See Vassar College, Forty-fourth Annual Catalog, 1908-1909, pp. 46-48. 

WELLESLEY COLLEGE. 

In regard to your inquiry of March 9, Course IX is a course in general sociology 
and includes a consideration of the development of the family as a social institu- 
tion. 

The course in economics of consumption I am working out for the first time this 
year. The account given in the pamphlet Courses of Study igo8-og issued by the 
college fairly describes it, I think. The data you mention should certainly be in- 
cluded in the household consumption — especially should the common error be 
avoided of overlooking those forms of cost which do not appear in a money form — 
of which unpaid household labor is the chief specialty. 

Yours sincerely, 
[Signed] Emily G. Balch. 

Wellesley, Massachusetts, April i, 1909. 

See Wellesley College Calendar, 1908-1909, pp. 62-64. 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA. 

As to the question you ask, the aims of our course in the household as an economic 
agent are distinctly what you suggest. The attempt is to make the study of the 
theorj' and practice of spending, and the sociological and ethical questions are only 
taken up as a background to the main points of the study. We aim to do field work 
in investigating ways of spending incomes of various sizes and the personal and social 
causes for such expenditure. The household is naturally the central fact of this 
study and its mechanism, its types, its development under different social conditions, 
naturally form the central interest throughout the course. In a few weeks I shall 
have prepared a brief outline of the work as I expect to carry it on next semester and 
I will send you a copy which may perhaps tell you more than this somewhat unsatis- 
factory' statement can do. 

Very sincerely yours, 

[Signed] Jessica B. Peixotto. 

Department of Economics, Berkeley, Calif . , May 19, 1909. 



232 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

UNIVERSITY or Missouia. 

In my general course in Home Economics which I give to freshmen students, I 
use the Library of Home Economics put up by the American School of Home Econo- 
mics as a text-book, and the class study particularly the first part of the volume on 
household management. Since I believe in making all the work as concrete as 
possible and in helping to form habits as well as to teach facts and principles,and since 
I cannot provide the students each with a family and a family income allowing them 
several years in spending it, I have the girls keep their own accounts, and hand in at 
the beginning of each month an estimate of the money that they will spend under 
various heads, and then at the end of the month I have them hand in their actual 
expenditures. Along with this I have discussed not only what is given in the 
book but a little of the economics of saving and particularly of spending, the law of 
diminishing utility, etc. Also we take up what is probably more sociological than 
economic, the discussion of the fact that the work that used to be done in the home 
by the women is largely done in factories, and hence the home maker is not the pro- 
ducer in the sense that she used to be, and we discuss some of Mrs. Oilman's ideas 
of the wife earning money outside of the homt. It is all very elementary. I do 
not expect to do much more than to set the girls to thinking. 

In a later course coming in the senior year in home administration, which will 
probably be given next year for the first time, I expect to take up these economic 
problems more thoroughly. I require a general course in economics (not Home 
Economics) as a prerequisite for this. I have not yet made out the course in detail 
and can hardly tell now what it will contain. If you are gathering information on 
this subject from many people, I should be glad to have an opportunity to get the 
results of your gleanings. 

Very cordially yours. 

[Signed] Edna D.Day. 

Department of Home Economics, Columbia, Missouri, April 16, iqoq. 



SUMMER MEETINGS OF THE AMERICAN HOME 
ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

In accordance with the wish generally expressed at the recent con- 
vention of the American Home Economics Association, a summer 
meeting for all members interested in educational work will be held in 
connection with the annual convention of the National Education 
Association which meets in Boston, July 2 to 7, 1910. Plans are 
already being drawn for a program which will result in a discussion 
of some of the most important educational problems of the Home Eco- 
nomics movement, especially of certain matters which concern pub- 
lic education. The plan followed last year at the Denver convention 
of the National Education Association of organizing several ses- 
sions of the American Home Economics Association as an affiliated 
organization, will be followed this year. The Home Economics 
Association will provide its own program, but meeting places and 
announcements on the general program will be provided through the 
courtesy of the National Education Association. 

Another summer meeting of the Home Economics Association is 
also announced. There will be a sectional conference, during the 
first week in June, of members of the Association interested in institu- 
tional management, at the Lake Placid Club, Lake Placid, New York. 
The program will raise questions which concern especially the house- 
hold departments of educational and related institutions. At the 
Boston convention, the section meeting for institutional workers 
brought together sixty persons and there was expressed the need of 
occasional specialized conferences devoted to this field. Thanks to 
the cordial invitation of the Lake Placid Club it becomes possible at 
once to carry out this plan. 

Further details of both summer meetings will soon be ready, and 
may be obtained from the Secretary. Programs will be published in 
the June number of the Journal. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, 

Secretary. 

525 West i2oth Street, New York City. 



2ZS 



EDITORIALS. 

The question of the school lunch is a large one. In dealing with it 
we have to consider the relation of the lunch room to the school in 
which it is located ; the industrial organization of the lunch 
The room, including questions of the purchase of food, prep- 

School aration, service, menus, etc. ; the cost of maintenance and 
Lunch, price of lunches, including relation of cost to teaching of 
domestic science in the school; and the benefits, direct 
and indirect, to pupils concerned in the maintenance of lunch rooms, 
including its educational value. And we have yet to deal with the 
question of the free lunch and all its relations to the much discussed 
undernutrition of the school child and to the conditions in the home 
from which the child comes. 

All of these points are treated or at least touched upon in some of 
the dozen or more papers on the subject which we have gathered 
together in this number of the Journal. They will be found very 
suggestive and will lead, we hope, to still more careful study of its 
various phases. 

According to the careful statistics furnished by Miss Bryant of the 
Sage Foundation, it would seem an accepted fact in most European 
countries that the school child must be furnished a noon day meal 
whether he can afford to pay for it or not, while the tendency in our 
own country is to make the most searching investigation into the home 
conditions of the underfed child. We wish to call special attention as 
regards this point to the papers of Miss Gibbs and Miss White which 
report study and actual work among the poor in two of our large 
cities, their conclusions being very similar, namely, that in the great 
majority of cases the chief trouble lies not in the smallness of the 
family income but in the ignorance of how to spend it wisely, especially 
in the ignorance of food values and of the methods of cookery. What- 
ever may prove to be the proportion of such families among the poor, 
there is no doubt of their need for the visiting dietitian. Mr. Joseph 
Lee in a very thoughtful article, pubhshed in The Survey of Decem- 
ber 4, holds thus: 



234 



iQio] Editorials 



235 



The home and not the school is society's proper organ for providing physical 
support during childhood; that the providing of such support and the family 
observances that grow out of it are a matter vital to the home; and that whatever 
action society may take to insure the adequacy of such support should be carried 
out not through the school but through the home and in a way to preserve and foster, 
not to weaken it. 

It is for this end more than any other that the Home Economics 
movement stands; for healthful and if possible beautiful surroundings 
in which the child may be reared; for such intelligent performance 
of enough of the household arts as will furnish the common meeting 
ground of parent and child, give means of expression and development, 
some training of hand and eye, some opportunity for mutual service, 
some contribution to the common Ufe on which the love of home may 
grow. We are not disembodied spirits; we grow and develop and find 
expression only by touch on material things. This beneficent stream 
of household skill and care must be fed by as many new sources as we 
can divert to it. 

One contributor takes a discouraged view of the situation. She says : 

Little help is to be gained by visiting the parents of the children that are suffer- 
ing from malnutrition. The poverty, ignorance and indifference that has caused 
the child's physical state cannot be done away with so easily. We have no author- 
ity to make the parent allow the child to eat at school even when the doctor has 
ordered it, no way to stop the spending of pennies for candy, and in the making 
out of menus their whims must rule us. 

Directly bearing on this point comes the report of a very recent 
experiment in Boston which offers to the child a 10:30 a.m. penny 
lunch, a "snack" or "bite" to break the long hours between breakfast 
and the noon meal. This catches the pennies that have been going 
over the candy counter and freshens the child for the last hour of the 
morning session. And the report comes also that parents' associa- 
tions are asking for talks and practical instruction. As used to be 
said in the New England Kitchen, the poor and ignorant woman if she 
has a child learns and develops and changes her ways even after thirty. 

The attitude of patience and courage must be ours in working at 
this great problem. 

We wish to call attention to the changes in address that will be 
found on the cover of the Journal. All communi- 
The Journars cations, including subscriptions and checks, should 
New Address hereafter be sent to the Editor. 



NEWS FROM INSTITUTIONS. 

This year marks a change of administration and plans are well under way 
which will strengthen the work of each department and raise the standard of 
the college as a whole. The Home Economics department is 
Kansas State receiving its full share of attention and a general effort is being 
Agricultural made to strengthen and broaden the already strong course in 
College. domestic science and art. It is too early to announce the 

definite changes to be made, but the general policy is to raise 
the entrance requirements and to strengthen the scientific and technical work of 
the course. 

The sentiment created in Kansas so long ago, largely as the resxilt of the efforts 
of Mrs. Kedzie Jones, has developed into a state wide movement which is centered 
in the department at Manhattan. At present the department is offering three 
courses; the four year college course, the six months housekeepers' course, and the 
twenty weeks short course. Fully 90 per cent of all the girls who are graduated 
from the college graduate from the domestic science and art four years course. 
Their work is divided about equally between the fundamental sciences, the techni- 
cal work, and the cultural studies. The degree of Be chelor of Science is given upon 
completion of this course. At present the enrollment is over four hundred. The 
housekeepers' course of six months given each year is, as its name implies, a course 
where special training is given for home making. The enrollment in this course 
for several years has been over one hundred. The twenty weeks short course is 
offered in two ten weeks terms during the summer. Its scope is somewhat limited 
because at present a knowledge of the sciences is not required for entrance. The 
students of this course are usually grade and high school teachers who recognize 
the need for such training, but do not have the time for a complete course. 

Until the present year the members of the department have responded to fre- 
quent calls to visit farmers' institutes. This year the department has its regular 
institute worker and she has already visited over eighty farmers' institutes in the 
state. It is planned that during March, April and May she will conduct movable 
schools, and already there have been arranged a sufficient number of these schools 
to take the full three months. It is expected that much good will come from 
this effort, and that as a result the enrollment at the college will be still further 
increased. 

Open house was held February 3 in the Domestic Science Exhibit, where in 
their new quarters Miss Haggart and her assistants received their friends. 

Among the exhibits were fifty books for housekeepers, a 
New Mexico College typewritten copy of the list being given to visitors. On 
of Agriculture and the walls were displayed the various samples of rugs. 
Mechanic Arts. carpets, table and household linens and othci materials 

used for the household art class in color and design; also 
the patterns drafted by the class and the completed garments. 

Menu cards were shown of the four dinners which were planned, cooked and 
served by groups of two girls to six guests at different times this year. In the 
model kitchen were shown and explained all the modern devices used in the 
cooking and serving of different meals, while in another department were 
shown the various articles used in teaching the home nursing class. A delicious 
luncheon was served by the first preparatory girls. 

236 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

How to Feed Children: A Manual for Mothers, Nxirses and Physicians. Louise E. 
Hogan. 9. Edition. Pp. 249. Philadelphia, Penn. J. B. Lippincott. Price 

$1.00. 

The ninth edition of Mrs. Hogan's book, newly revised, differs from the earlier 
ones chiefly in the addition of a chapter on School Luncheons, in which attention is 
called to the value of suitable control of the school lunch counter as a means of 
improving the nutritive conditions of school children. A brief description is given 
of the methods employed in the lunch rooms of the Philadelphia normal schools for 
girls, and in the Horace Mann School, New York City. 

It is unfortunate that in the revision of a book which contains so many valuable 
practical hints to mothers, a number of scientific inaccuracies have still been allowed 
to remain. In the light of modem knowledge, it is especially deplorable that the 
chapter on "Inorganic Salts in Food " has not been thoroughly revised. The book 
will not commend itself to teachers because of these errors. 

Greater emphasis on the use of milk in the diet of children after the first year and 
still less on pasteurization, especially for milk fed to babies, would seem desirable 
in a book intended for the general reader — Mary D. Swartz, Ph.D. 

The Baby: — ^A Book for Mothers and Nurses. Daniel Rollins Brown, M.D. 

Cloth, pp. 200. Whitcomb and Barrows, Publishers, Boston, Mass. $1.00 net. 

This book treats of the care of the infant in health, and prevention of disease. 

Infant feeding and other practical topics are included. It is a book for the home 

and is strongly recommended by competent critics. 

Infant Depots in Sheffield. A. E. Naish. Jour. Roy. Inst. Pub. Health, 17 
(1909), No. II, pp. 665-672. 

An account of work at this institution, designed to aid in the care of infants and 
to lessen infant mortality. 

Why American Marriages Fail, and Other Papers. Anna A. Rogers. Houghton, 
Mifflin Company. $1.25 net. 

This volume consists of various observations on contemporary life by an elderly 
woman of travel and social experience. Thus she believes that marriages fail because 
of woman's failure to realize that they are her work in the world, because of her 
growing individualism, and of her losing the art of giving, which has been replaced 
by a highly developed receptive faculty. American men are indifferent to everything 
except business, mothers are too emotional, coddling their babies and leaving their 
girls and boys to be neglected by schools that teach neither motherhood nor citizen- 
ship. We are too indifferent to custom house outrages and affronts to the flag, 
to the license of newspapers and the prudery of magazines and libraries; our streets 
and parks are badly kept, our public servants are impertinent; we are careless of 



237 



238 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

public health, law and order; our academic educators should be made practical and 
everything beyond grammar school fundamentals should be paid for. 

As many of such suggestions as might fairly furnish a single pungent essay have 
been strewn loosely throughout two hundred pages. — Clyde Furst. 

How to Help. Conyington McMillan, New York, 1909. Price $1.50. 

This is a hand book primarily for charity workers, but useful to Home Economics 
teachers and to all who are taking a wider view of educational work as the organ- 
ized means of carrying society forward into better things. 

The book devotes six chapters to general principles treating of charity work, the 
charity organization movement, social workers, agencies for philanthropic work, 
and elementary principles. The second part of the work applies these principles 
to definite social groups who need help: The homeless man and woman; beggars 
and impostors; needy families as to finding work; intemperance; desertion; standard 
of living ; widows with children ; aged people ; and consumptives. The third portion 
describes the organization of social and preventive work. The fourth part 
treats of fresh air work, home library clubs, boys' clubs, educational work; adults' 
clubs, and social settlement; and the concluding division treats of giving, indirect 
service, and some practical suggestions. 

American National Red Cross Text Book on First Aid and Relief Columns. Major 
Charles Lynch. Philadelphia, Penn. 1908. Pp. 247, illustrations 74. 
Price $1.00. 

This contains instruction on how to prevent accidents and what to do for injuries 
and emergencies, and is useful as a reference book in the home. It is one of the 
most complete manuals published on the immediate care of the injured, and for 
elementary work in the First Aid. 

Pressing with a Hot Iron as a Prophylactic Measure in Infectious Diseases. K. 

SvEHLA. Arch. Hyg., 70 (1909), No. 4, pp. 373-379. 
From a comparative study of the subject the author concludes that sprinkling 
material and pressing it with a hot iron is very effective as a means of disinfection. 

Concerning the Disinfecting Action of Ordinary Tooth and Mouth Washes of 
Pathogenic Bacteria. R. Basseuge. Dent. Med. Wchnschr., 35 (1909) 
No. 33, pp. 1436, 1437; abs in Chetn. Abs., 3 (1909), No. 22, p. 271 1. 
The disinfecting action of a number of commercial mouth washes was tested on 

typhoid and cholera bacilli at both 15° and 35° C. With two exceptions the mouth 

washes studied showed no bactericidal action. 

Antiputrescent Effects of Copper. A. Springer and A. Springer, Jr. Jour. Indus, 
and Engin. Chetn., i (1909), No. 9, pp. 676-678. 
According to the authors' experiments, copper salts, even in the quantity of i 
part in 2,000,000, act as antiseptics to putrescent bacteria. Egg albumen, milk 
and other materials were used in the experiments. 

Daily Menus for a Year at the Institute for Colored Youth, Chejmey, Pa., and 

A Dietary Study for the Month of October. Chcyney. I^i., 1909, pp. 48. 

This bulletin contains an account of the work carried on at the Institute for 

Colored Youth (Teachers' Training School), at Cheyney, Pa., in applied domestic 



iQio] Books and Literature 239 

science. This institution which is under the management of the Society of Friends, 
was founded in 1837 and reorganized in 1902, "to develop a normal school which 
will correlate academic and industrial education. " It is stated that for three years 
the attempt has been made at the Institute to furnish the pupils with properly 
balanced and wholesome meals at low cost. The report includes the menus of the 
meals served during the school year 1907-8, together with the results of a dietary 
study which cover the month of October of this school year. It is stated that meat 
is served at all three meals, and tea for breakfast and supper, but no coffee. The 
selection of dishes is recorded as satisfactory, and the rations sufficient in quan- 
tity. 

In estimating the cost of food, the expense for fresh table linen is included, as 
well as cost of fuel, service, and cooking. During the year 60 persons were pro- 
vided for, and on an average the cost of food per person per day was 2 1 cents. The 
report states that the average waste was ten per cent of the food purchased. 

According to the results of the dietary study the food as purchased cost 18 cents 
per person per day during the month included, while the food served supplied 89 
gm. protein, 100 gm. fat, and 351 gm. carbohydrates per person per day, the total 
energy being 2758 calories. The daily menus were fairly varied, meats, fruit, 
vegetables, dairy products, bread and other cereal foods being used in the same 
combinations as are found on home tables. In the report of this investigation it is 
stated that all the pupils improved in health and working energy on the diet which 
the school supplies. 

All of the pupils in the school assist in this applied domestic science work imder 
the immediate direction of a graduate from the domestic science course. "The 
experiences of this effort have revolutionized the teaching of domestic science in 
this institute. The subject is now both practical and practicable, and we furnish 
our pupils skill as well as knowledge." 

As a means of facilitating the work a system of keeping records has been devised 
for the store-room, kitchen and dining room, which the report states enable the 
school management by actual measurement to exercise "strictest economy in pur- 
chasing, preparing, cooking, serving and preserving the food materials." The 
schedules have been printed and like the report are for sale, the proceeds being 
devoted to helping on the school work. 

Scientific Living or the New Domestic Science. Laura N. Brown. New York 
and London, 1909. Pp. XIV 284. 
Some general principles of hygiene, physiology, and Home Economics are reiter- 
ated in this volume and a number of theories are advanced which though held by 
various health cults would not be generally accepted by the majority of well 
informed physiologists. The author apparently writes more or less from the stand- 
point of a follower of a non-meat diet, and such fantastic theories are advanced 
as a belief in the conservation of cell vitaUty by special methods of cookery in order 
that the alleged vitality may be taken up in some way by the body with its nourish- 
ment. The opinions and statements against the use of meat as a food which are 
usually found in such treatises are reiterated. Such volumes are of course appre- 
ciated at their real value by well-informed students of nutrition. In so far as it 
makes a plea for lessened labor in the household and more time for interests other 
than house work the volume is to be commended. 



240 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Ventilation for Dwellings, Rural Schools and Stables. F. H. King. Madison, 
Wisconsin, 1908, pp. 125. Price 75 cents. 
This volume is a valuable contribution to a library of useful knowledge. It 
contains very readable and easily understood matter on a subject of growing interest 
and importance to every one. Such books may properly be classed as our most 
effective means of carrying on the war against tuberculosis and kindred diseases. 
The divisions of the book are three: (i) Introduction (pp. 1-44) on the necessity 
of ventilation both for human beings and for animals, and the evil results from the 
lack of it; (2) the principles of ventilation (pp. 54-75); and (3) the practice of 
ventilation (pp .76-126). A large number of illustrations greatly add to the value 
of the book. It can be recommended for school and home use — John F. Wood- 
hull. 

The Practical Dry Cleaner, Scourer and Garment Dyer. William T. Braunt. 
Philadelphia, Penn. Henry C. Baird & Co. 3. edition, 1909. Pp. 330. 
Price $2.50. 

This book forms an important contribution to the literature of the professional 
cleaner, the housewife and the laundress, all of whorr\ should know of the chemical 
agents to be employed, the method of removing spots, the characteristics of various 
dyes, and the treatment of different materials. 

It is with this need in mind that the author has written a book which is valuable 
for its clear description of methods used, its recipes for various solutions for remov- 
ing spots and its specific account of dyes and treatment of fabrics. The chapter 
on the removal of stains with the excellent tabulation as to fabrics and stains is 
so well written; the directions so complete, that it alone makes the book of great 
value. The student of textiles will find valuable material in the chapter on analysis 
of textile fabrics and to the student of dyes much information is given regarding 
proportions for various colors and shades. Cleaning, bleaching and dyeing 
different materials occupy the rest of the volume and while the descriptions are 
more or less technical they are of much value. 

The author concludes his preface by stating that it has been his endeavor to 
introduce and describe clearly and in detail the most recent innovations, thus 
bringing the book up to date and rendering it useful as a reference and guide. 
Its contents demonstrate the fulfillment of this desire. — L. Ray Balderston. 

The Chemistry and Pharmacology of Insect Powder. J. Fujitani. Arch. Expt. 
Path. u. PharmakoL, 61 (1909), No. i, pp. 47-75, dgms. 8. 
According to the author's conclusion the active principle of pyrethriun insect 
powder is pyrethron , an ester which yields pyethrol on saponification. The pharma- 
cology of these substances was studied. 

On the Method of the Italian Customs Service for the Determination of Sizing in 
Cotton.. G. Tagliani. Rev. Gen. Mat. Color., 13 (1909), pp. 221-223; abs. 
in Chem. Abs., 3 (1909), No. 22, pp. 2755, 2756. 
The official method is described and a modification proposed by the author. 

Apparatus for Determining the Conductivities of Insulating Materials. W. D. A. 

Bost. Cold Storage atui Ice Assoc. Proc, 8 (1909), No. 2, pp. S9-123, figs. 34. 
An illustrated description of the apparatus and methods employed in studying 
insulation problems with special reference to cold storage. 



<¥>^jai^ 



■^^ 




I I ''ISmt 11 in r> 

, fi I I MB III ' IB 

II. i I 




■^v 


', • '' 




'W- 


'■ ■ 


'i "• Z 


■^^* 


L^-^ 


■:\"- 


¥^- 


^^■, 


•:P-: 


.*- ■ .■ 


v\*. ' 





%^4 if 



U 






THE 

Journal^/ Home Economics 

Vol. II. JUNE, 1910 No. 3 

COLLEGE COURSES IN HOME ECONOMICS.^ 
A. C. True, 

Director Office of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture. 

Inasmuch as courses in Home Economics have been introduced 
into many of the agricultural colleges, the Association of American 
Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations has desired to have one 
of its standing committees, of which I happen to be a member, con- 
sider what should be included in such courses. The committee has 
therefore made somewhat of a study of this matter and I have looked 
into what these colleges are doing in different parts of the country. 
I have also considered the matter in the light of experience gained 
from studjdng coUege courses in agriculture and other subjects. In 
making such studies it has been my practice after a time to put my 
conclusions in the form of a tentative program and to set forth reasons 
for this program. I do this because it gives me a definite basis for 
further study and if I have an opportimity to present my scheme to 
others it aflfords something definite to discuss and criticise. I am 
glad therefore to have the opportunity to present this matter here 
and shall be only too glad to have my views frankly criticised, espe- 
cially by those who are actually engaged in giving college courses in 
this subject. 

The reaching of definite conclusions on this matter is obviously 
rendered more difficult because of the chaotic condition of the college 
curriculum in general. Many efforts have been made to establish 

* Read at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
January, 1910. 



243 



«, 



244 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

standard entrance requirements for colleges and it is generally sup- 
posed that great advance has been made in this matter by a substan- 
tial agreement on from 14 to 16 "units," representing an average 
four-year high school course, super-imposed on eight years in ele- 
mentary grades. The great broadening of the high school curricu- 
lum in recent years, including the introduction of the so-called voca- 
tional subjects, has, however, brought in a factor which in the end is 
boimd to affect radically the details of college entrance requirements. 

It now looks as if in the end college entrance requirements must in 
some way be made to represent a certain amount of mental maturity 
and training rather than knowledge of particular subjects. More- 
over, changes in pedagogical ideas are modifying our judgment as 
to the order in which different subjects should be taught. In my 
childhood everybody began with the alphabet when he learned to 
read. In my boyhood it was the universal practice to begin the study 
of Latin or Greek with the grammar. It used to be generally thought 
that the study of the ancient languages should precede that of the 
modern languages, but there are many now who insist that it should 
be vice-versa. In science it was long thought necessary to begin with 
more or less abstract elements and definitions and from these work 
up to the actual things. Nowadays many believe that the subject 
should first be presented in some concrete form and analyzed after- 
ward. 

On this theory the vocational subjects have a great advantage. 
The student's interest may easily be aroused in a steam engine, cook- 
ing, gardening, stock-judging, etc. Then he may be led to study the 
principles underlying these things. 

From this it easily follows that it is not necessary to insist that the 
student shall have preliminary training in the fimdamental sciences, 
e. g., chemistry, physics, or botany before he begins to make a syste- 
matic study of agriculture or Home Economics. By a careful selec- 
tion of topics it is possible to give the student proper instruction in 
the simpler features of these subjects as a preliminary to their more 
scientific study. And this preliminary work may be the best pre- 
paration for the study of chemistry, physics or botany, because the 
student will naturally be interested in the sciences as subjects vitally 
connected with the real things of life. 

Are we now prepared to take a further step and hold that it is not 
wise to insist that certain subjects, including agriculture and Home 
Economics, shall always be begun in the preparatory school? 



igio] College Courses in Home Economics 245 

When the college curriculum was narrow it was easy to insist that 
certain subjects should always be taken in the preparatory school. 
This idea was broken down when sciences and modern languages came 
to be regular high school studies. Colleges still admit students with- 
out either and give them beginning courses in colleges. Many sci- 
entific college professors indeed prefer that no science be taught in 
high school. Classical teacheis will ultimately have to let students 
begin Greek or Latin in college. Teachers of vocational subjects 
may have to do the same thing and shop work, sewing, cooking, farm 
practice, etc., may be taught in college. 

The college course then will differ from the secondary course not 
in the fact that the subject is begun in the former and continued in 
the latter, but rather in the adaptation of the college course to the 
greater maturity and broader general knowledge of the college stu- 
dent. If the subject, whether Latin, physics, agriculture or Home 
Economics, has been studied in the high school, that student should 
not be required to begin at the beginning in the college. But if he 
has not had the subject at all in the high school he should not be 
deprived of the opportunity to begin it in the college. And if it is a 
vocational subject, he should not be deprived of the opportunity to 
get the practice of the art in college because he has not had it in the 
high school. 

This means that at least two courses in each vocational subject 
should be offered the freshman — a beginning course or an advanced 
course. 

To these reasons may be added a prudential one. At the present 
time such subjects as agriculture and Home Economics are taught in 
relatively few high schools and the number of college students pur- 
suing them is small. It is well therefore for the college to encourage 
more students to take such courses by meeting their actual needs 
for beginning courses. 

By this I do not mean that the college shall give high school courses 
in these subjects. The college class in cooking or sewing or gardening 
should cover more ground and do things more thoroughly and intel- 
ligently than a high school class and the way should more distinctly 
be prepared for the scientific training which is to follow, just as a 
freshman class beginning physics or chemistry should in the same time 
do more and better work than a high school class in the same subject. 
Certainly in many of the states it would be unwise to insist now that 
only advanced courses in Home Economics are to be given in the colleges. 



246 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Obviously it is absurd for a college to send out graduates in Home 
Economics who cannot cook a meal or make a dress, or in agriculture 
who cannot milk a cow or run a plow. This is Just as absurd as for 
the college to turn out graduates in Home Economics who know noth- 
ing but cooking and sewing or in agriculture who know nothing but 
ordinary farm practice. What kind of musical instruction would 
that be which did not include practice on any musical instrument, or 
art education which included no practice in drawing, painting or 
sculpture? Vocational education will not amount to much peda- 
gogically or practically if we minimize the importance of good prac- 
tice and overestimate the advantages of good theoretical training. 
The doing and the knowing should go hand in hand all the time and 
never be divorced. 

It is the complex character of such subjects as Home Economics 
and agriculture that gives them their very high pedagogical character 
when properly taught. 

Instruction in the Latin language had its highest pedagogical value 
when there was combined methodical and scientific grammatical 
drill, both analytical and synthetical; translation both ways in large 
amounts and variety; acquisition of knowledge of the ancient ideas 
that they might be applied to the life of the times; and the acquisition 
of a language which was yet the living tongue of the law courts, the 
churches and all international communications. Only a remnant 
of such pedagogical value remains in Latin as ordinarily taught in our 
schools today. We shall never again have such classical scholars as 
Milton and Macauley. The impulse and the necessity for such kind 
of learning have departed forever. 

The important question is — Can we transfer to the sciences and the 
vocations the thorough mental discipline and broad practical train- 
ing once conveyed to a few select minds through the ancient classics 
and make these newer studies the media for the best mental develop- 
ment of great masses of students? The great problem of the modern 
college is to make genuine and thorough scholars in whatever subject 
is pursued, and above all in those subjects which come closest to the 
actual life of modern men and women. 

To do this in Home Economics or in agriculture it is necessary to con- 
sider the subject in its broad relations both to science and to prac- 
tice. There should be careful and methodical training in details of 
practice, keen and accurate analysis and synthesis on the basis of 
scientific knowledge of the whys and wherefores, the use of knowledge 



iQio] College Courses in Home Economics 247 

(as acquired) in varied combinations for practical ends, and the pur- 
suit of new knowledge which may be applied to the improvement of 
the art and the welfare of mankind. It is these principles which are 
to be worked out in college courses in Home Economics, and it is this 
broad scope and purpose which should distinguish them from the 
narrow routine of the more elementary work in the lower schools. 

To construct courses on this basis it seems fair to claim that in 
some way every graduate from a college course in Home Economics 
should have a fair working knowledge of the household arts, and that 
if she can not get this in the secondary school, she be allowed to get 
it in the college. 

To illustrate my present view of this matter I have drawn up the 
following outline of two college courses in Home Economics, based on 
those given in two American colleges: 

{Both to be ofered in the same college.) 
Minor Course. 

(i) Plain sewing and gannent making. 

(2) Cooking. 

(3) Selection and preparation of foods. 

(4) Economic uses of foods. 

(5) Home architecture and sanitation. 

(6) Textiles. 

(7) Home decoration. 

(8) Household management. 

(9) Advanced cooking 1 

Dressmaking and millinery \ At least one of this group. 

Art needlework J 

(10) Food and nutrition 1 

Dietetics [ At least one of this group. 

Household art J 

Major CoxmsE. 

(i) and (2) to be taken in preparatory school and credit given in college entrance 
requirements. 

Required Studies.— (s), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9) (one of group), (10) (one of 
group). 

Electives. — At least one additional course from 9 or 10 or from other electivesin 
Home Economics offered in the college. 



COLLEGE COURSES IN ECONOMICS APPLIED TO THE 
SCHOOL OF HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS.^ 

Susan M. Kingsbury, Ph.D., 

Simmons College. 

The question of Household Economics deals not only with the sci- 
entific but also with the economic things of household life. It includes 
the study of the most economical way in which the household may be 
conducted, but in addition concerns itself vitally with the processes 
of manufacture, of production and of distribution of those articles 
which are to be consumed in the home. The escape of the processes 
of production from the home has forced women to seek a knowledge 
of the quality and cost of production of those articles which were 
formerly manufactured in the home and which are now made in shops 
and in factories, or in larger quantities within the home, with the idea 
of distribution to other places in exchange for goods. 

In Simmons College during the past year or two we have attempted 
to give some special line of work to individual students which would 
cover a part of this field, but I have failed to discover that any form 
in which such work might be presented as a specific college course 
has been developed. However, this year we have introduced the plan 
of having the seniors devote one-fifth or two-fifths of their time to 
some special study, as an elective, which shall give training in the 
investigations of subjects closely related to the scientific work of the 
student. Such work follows the economics of consumption, of pro- 
duction, and of distribution, considering these terms as applied to 
those matters which deal with the household and not in their appli- 
cation to the general field of manufacture and commerce. 

In time these fields might be divided into specific courses and of- 
fered as electives or given as required work. Permit me to suggest, 
tentatively, five groups which arc possible. 

(i) Municipal housekeeping. — This subject should consider the 
laws of the state which regulate the conditions of the home or the city 

'Read at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Association. 

248 



iQio] Economics Courses in School of Household Economics 249 

and of food supplies. It would thus require a study from the his- 
torical point of view of the growth of legislation along these lines and 
the development of the scientific side of municipal housekeeping, 
together with a training in ability to discover comparative costs and 
efficiency of such service— that is, training in statistical and economic 
research. 

(2) Independent business enterprise.— Tht production and sale of 
food supplies and of clothing offers another field for intensive train- 
ing. Investigation should develop executive or administrative power 
which would be of the highest value, building as it would do upon the 
scientific training gained in the earlier years of the course. This 
study should follow the line of the, regulations imposed by law upon 
such production and distribution and the experience of those who 
have carried on such enterprises, thus reaching out for the best methods 
and the most economical means, and studying the markets for buy- 
ing and for selling. 

(3) Production in the home of foods or of art materials, including the 
making of articles from textiles and the manufacturing of food supplies.— 
Intensive study should inquire into the methods of disposal of the 
product, of means of securing raw materials and the actual cost of 
production in comparison with the price for selling. As an illustra- 
tion, at this moment the question of the making of bread is under 
discussion and requires investigation of bake shops on the one hand 
and experimentation in manufacture in the home, on the other, to 
discover whether the manufacture of bread either for home consump- 
tion or in the home for distribution outside of the home is more or 
less economical than securing bread from public bake shops. This 
must also include the study of the comparative nutritive values. 

(4.) Household furnishing.— Much, has been done in the study of 
the sources of supply and of the methods of manufacture of household 
furnishings by the manufacturer, but little is known of the compara- 
tive wearing values of household supplies and the most economical 
methods of renovating household furnishings. The ability to sup- 
ply the public with artistic furnishings and those which will be dur- 
able at a cost which is possible to the individual of moderate income, 
is at present before the American people largely in connection with 
the study of the tariff question. Such a study should include here 
as elsewhere an investigation of the opportunities for independent 
work by women in interior decoration and furnishing. 

(s) Domestic service.— Ont of the most serious problems before 



250 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

the modem housekeeper is the question of service in the home. The 
development of production outside of the home, from the point of 
view of economy, has tended to leave the unskilled processes to the 
woman in the home. Thus if it is true that the manufacture of bread 
outside of the home is more economical than in the home, or that 
the manufacture of clothing in shops is more economical than in the 
home, the American woman cannot afford to carry on such production 
in the home. Knowledge on her part of how to secure service which 
shall afford to her an adequate return for her outlay in wages is there- 
fore necessary. This is tied up as are most of these other subjects 
with the understanding of the work of the people. 

At present the five senior students in Simmon's College who are 
carrying on investigations are working upon the following subjects: 

(i) The production of bread, one from the economic and one from 
the scientific point of view; (2) the opportunities for women in inter- 
ior furnishing together with the methods of conducting such a busi- 
ness; (3) a survey of the methods and results of serving school lunches 
in the public schools of Massachusetts; and (4) the laws regulating 
employment agencies, the best methods of conducting such agencies, 
and the general question of domestic service. 

In conducting these studies three considerations are kept in mind, 
(i) Whatever work is done shall connect itself closely with the tech- 
nical and scientific work of the department of Household Economics. 
(2) It shall give to the student training which looks toward imme- 
diate professional occupation. (3) It shall contribute to our knowl- 
edge of the opportunity for women in these lines, and shall thus aid 
the college in understanding the cpportxmities for training which 
may be offered; or it shall contribute to the acquisition of knowledge 
which is desired for the conducting of the work in the school of House- 
hold Economics; or it shall contribute to a knowledge of situations 
which shall be of practical value in connection with legislation and 
administration in our commonwealth. 

This is but a beginning of what we hope will grow into a series of 
original studies in seminars, each devoted to some one important 
subject. Out of these should develop some fundamental courses, to 
be given to all students in the Household Economics School. 



THE RELATION OF PHYSICS TO HOME ECONOMICS 

COURSES.! 

Charles L. Norton, 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

[Introduction by Mrs. Richards. — Some of us who are engaged in 
chemistry believe that chemistry is the foundation of everything, 
but the physicists beheve that they have the foundation. Now, we 
know the most important thing is the appHcation of heat. If you 
remember one of the earHest investigations which Mrs. Abel and I 
imdertook under the EHzabeth Thompson foundation and under a 
foundation to which Mr. Carnegie and Mr. Phipps contributed, our 
report to the American Association in 1890 was entitled the Appli- 
cation of Heat to Food Materials, and at that time we had very little 
to go upon. There was very little in the literature, very little experi- 
mentation on the effect of heat in its various appHcations to food. 
Mr. Atkinson, as you know, suggested that we were most wasteful 
of fuel in our kitchen stoves and he tried to utilize the light of the 
lamp for the cooking of the breakfast. It was a truly scientific instru- 
ment, but woman was not equal to a scientific instrument and the 
Aladdin Oven failed in its purpose. The Aladdin Oven was origin- 
ally evolved from the Norwegian cooking box, and its modern repre- 
sentative is the fireless cooker. The fireless cooker has certain mer- 
its ; and the Aladdin Oven had many merits which are not appreciated 
today, though naturally it had some demerits. Now in ordinary 
climates we are obliged to use fuel, and we all find fuel very expen- 
sive. In very many ways the appHcations of the scientific problems 
of heat are becoming more and more important to us; and we have 
great pleasure today in having with us Professor Norton, who worked 
with Mr. Atkinson. He has many very interesting things to tell us 
and will, I am sure, give us a great many props on which we can build 
our future work.] 

^ Read at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Association 
January, 1910. 



251 



252 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Before discussing the relation of physics to Home Economics or 
to instruction in that subject, it is perhaps well to call to mind just 
what we ordinarily mean by the term physics. Our senses bear evi- 
dence of the existence about us of numerous bodies which have various 
properties in common, such as weight, density and elasticity, and these 
properties we attribute to the matter which these bodies contain. We 
beHeve this matter to be an inert thing and the mutual motions and 
effects of the bodies we beheve to be due to an active agent or force, 
which we call energy, and stated in its simplest terms, physics is that 
branch of science which deals with matter and energy. Putting it 
this way, there seems some justification for the comment of a student, 
who said he judged physics to be "the science of everything and what 
happened to it." The term energy is somewhat difficult to define 
with precision but Holman's definition that "energy is anything 
which can produce or change the rate of motion in a body," will indi- 
cate to you at least what sort of a thing energy is. It is familiar to 
us all as the means supphed to us by the sun, by fuels or by bodies of 
water in an elevated position and which are used as sources of power 
in many operations of commerce and in the arts. 

So long as we concern ourselves with the substances or bodies about 
us and their mutual changes and position, color, density or elasticity, 
etc., we are working in the realm of physics. On the other hand, if 
we seek to determine the composition of the matter of which bodies 
are composed, or to effect the decomposition or recombination of the 
separate substances, we come into the domain of chemistry. Of late 
there is a growing tendency to set off from physics such portions of 
that science as are concerned with large quantities of matter or with 
the transformation of large quantities of energy. This branch of 
physics deals with larger machines, heavier apparatus and oftentimes, 
commercially important problems and is usually classed as engineer- 
ing. It is not possible to draw a sharp line of division between phy- 
sics and chemistry and in fact we are today building up a great branch 
of science known as physical chemistry, and another known as chem- 
ical engineering, and it is not possible either to draw any sharp Hne 
of demarcation between the physics of electricity and electrical engi- 
neering. 

The common subdivision of physics usually found in courses of 
instruction in our schools and colleges separates the subject into five 
topics: Mechanics, light, sound, electricity and heat. Beginning 
with the one which has the least direct bearing on the subject of Home 



iQio] Physics and Home Economics Courses 253 

Economics; we should come first to the subject of sound or acoustics. 
I think were it not for our universal love of music and for the tremen- 
dous utility of the telephone, the study of acoustics as applied to 
Home Economics and to other kindred practical subjects would be 
considered of even less importance than appears to be the case today; 
yet it ought not to be neglected. The sound-proofing of our dwell- 
ings and the provision of satisfactory acoustic properties for our places 
of meeting as well as the prevention of noise in our cities, all call atten- 
tion of the importance of further study of this branch of physics. 

Under the subject of light we have many household prolems, but 
the fact which confronts us most clearly is the very great increase in 
efficiency of the work done by an ordinary operative in the mill or a 
worker in the household when provided with adequate and proper 
light. Aside from the matter of efficiency and speed in working is 
the question of the comfort and well-being of the worker. 

The development of the lighting of our dwellings has been steady 
and rapid from the time when the window openings were closed with 
semi-transparent membranes of paper through the days of clear glass 
to the present, when we may by the use of diffusing glasses or prisms 
redistribute the light in our houses almost at will. The proper dis- 
tribution of light throughout our rooms either in dwellings, school- 
houses or mills by means of diffusing glass in the windows or properly 
located artificial lights with ceilings and walls of proper tint and tex- 
ture is a subject which may well have the attention of every student 
in Home Economics. The development from oil lamp to gas burner 
and to electric lamp of carbon or later of tungsten has been tremen- 
dously rapid and has given us agents for home economy of which our 
grandfathers never dreamed. 

The relation of electricity to household economy is so close and is 
changing so rapidly that it is impossible in the time at my disposal 
to more than suggest its nature. The certainty of supplying energy, 
be it heat or mechanical energy, or of furnishing light or other active 
agents by electrical means at exactly the desired rate for the best and 
most economical length of time and with the minimum of discom- 
fort, noise, dirt, and so on, has led to its rapidly increasing use. It is 
unnecessary to more than suggest what a useful agent this is becom- 
ing in lighting, cooking, sterilizing, cleaning, etc., to make apparent 
the importance of its bearing upon our everyday means and methods 
of living. It is utterly impossible to predict how nearly universal 
its use is to become in the near future. 



254 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The fourth subdivision of physics, called mechanics, is perhaps an 
older branch of the science and deals more with those things which 
have become the chief concern of the mechanic or workman on the 
one hand and of the mechanical engineer on the other. However, a 
proper understanding of the principles of mechanics is necessary for 
the consideration of the other branches of physics. The increasing 
use of new materials for buildings leads to a discussion of their physical 
properties and the mechanical properties especially need much atten- 
tion for the determination of their fitness in the construction of our 
dwellings. I might instance the substance, concrete, which is becom- 
ing a very live factor in our modern construction, and to my mind, a 
very desirable one. 

But it is to the fifth division of physics, namely, heat, to which I 
should ascribe the greatest importance in its bearing upon the subject 
of Home Economics, and I wish to quote to you what one of the fore- 
most writers upon general physics has said upon the subject of heat . 

There is, perhaps, no scientific inquiry more full of human interest, than the study 
of the nature of heat, and the manner in which matter in general is affected by it. 
No branch of physical science is so intimately connected with the everyday occupa- 
tions of life, and, consequently, none of them interests mankind more closely. 

The influence of heat is manifestly so imiversal, and its actions so important and 
necessary to the progress of all the operations of nature, that, to those who first 
considered it with some attention, it must have at once appeared to be the gen- 
eral principle of all life and activity on this globe. With its return in springtime 
the bud breaks into blossom, and new life animates the vegetable kingdom. 
By its agency the incubation of the egg progresses, a living thing is brought into 
the world, and heat is still necessary to its support. Finally, to the power which 
man has acquired over it is due that supernatural strength which has made him 
superior to all other animals, and master of land and sea. 

We live in very narrow limits of temperature and while the knovm 
range of temperature is from — 400° to nearly + 4000° (Fahrenheit), 
we cannot ourselves withstand variations in temperature greater than 
about 150° F. and then for only a short time. The variation in tem- 
perature of our own bodies, amounting to only a very few degrees, 
results in the cessation of life. The study of heat and temperature 
and the means of their control would seem therefore to form an import- 
ant part in courses relating to instructions in methods of living. Per- 
haps I might point out to advantage two phases of our domestic econ- 
omy where our ignorance or neglect concerning matters of heat causes 
great economic loss. In the matter of cooking we are confronted 
directly with the problems of heat, usually the acquiring and main- 



igio] Physics and Home Ecotiomics Courses 255 

taining of a proper temperature over a relatively short period of time. 
We wish, for instance, to heat a limited amount of food up to a certain 
temperature, say 200°, and keep it there for an hour or two. Ordin- 
arily we do this in a monstrous thing known as a cooking stove made 
of cast iron, and if the examples with which I have had personal exper- 
ience are typical, they are well calculated to heat our kitchens and to 
send much heat up the chimney, but are singularly inefl&cient in the 
matter of making use of the energy in coal for cooking. My own cook- 
ing stove is capable of using up coal enough to supply 700,000 Brit- 
ish thermal imits in one day. I am unable to state after long experi- 
menting just what percentage of the heat can be utilized in cooking 
but something like o.i per cent is the probable amount. 

It was a realization of this sort of thing that led my very good 
friend, Edward Atkinson, to spend much time and energy upon his 
Aladdin Oven. The fireless cookers which have followed it are not 
open to criticism on the ground of efficiency in utilizing heat but are 
somewhat limited because of the restricted temperature range in which 
they operate. I look for an electrically heated jacketed oven in which 
by supplying electricity we may heat our food at exactly the desired 
temperature over a very wide range for any desired length of time 
with absolute certainty that no sensible portion of the heat is lost. In 
some of the present cooking devices there is enough heat supplied in 
baking a loaf of bread to keep that loaf of bread hot for three months 
could the heat be wholly concentrated upon the bread and the pan in 
which it was cooked. 

The second of the points which I desire to raise in connection with 
heat in our Home Economics work relates to the construction of our 
buildings as regards their warmth and their abihty to withstand fire. 
The first consideration becomes a discussion of the physical properties 
of the materials of building, first as concerns their insulating value or 
non-conducting properties, and second their rates of expansion and 
contraction and hence their Uability to produce cracks or fissures with 
changes in temperature. We give to the fire resistance of our dwell- 
ings, both as a subject of instruction and of daily concern, altogether 
too Httle attention. It is a matter of the greatest reproach to the com- 
munity at large that it allows in this country an annual fire loss so 
great that when it is added to the excess cost of our water depart- 
ments necessary because of the fire danger and to the cost of our fire 
departments themselves it presents a total of something like $300, 
000,000 annually. This great loss and its probable increase from 



256 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

time to time by great conflagrations becomes a grave source of danger. 
It is not a matter of insurance, since the real economic loss is here 
whether there be insurance or not. It may sometime become, as Mr. 
Atkinson believed, a matter of insurance engineering, but at present 
I believe it is a matter of study, first, of the physical properties of 
materials, and second, of the proper administration of our households, 
mills and schools. 

In teaching the subject of physics I have become thoroughly im- 
pressed with the belief that instruction by means of experimental 
lectures accompanied by laboratory work is much the most efficient 
system. For the same expenditure of time I think this sort of instruc- 
tion yields better returns than the recitations, even though these be 
accompanied by some laboratory instruction. I have had opportu- 
nity during the last few years to note the effect upon students, when 
in larger or smaller laboratory sections, of various courses of engi- 
neering resulting from the instruction given them in heat, and I beheve 
the efficiency of the instruction where sections in the laboratory can 
be kept down to 10 or 12 men is enormously better than when those 
sections are two or three times as large. I realize that much has 
been written and said on this subject but I cannot forego the oppor- 
tunity to express my strong conviction that laboratory instruction 
in physics is relatively singularly effective when taught to students in 
small groups. 

Perhaps a word as to the cultural value of physics might not be out 
of place here. It has not always been customary to class such sciences 
as physics and chemistry as subjects which make for a general cul- 
tural development of the student, but it seems to me more and more 
apparent that physics properly taught, with care to avoid details and 
to concern one's self with the principles and phenomena of heat, light, 
sound, mechanics and electricity, has very great value as a cultural 
subject. 



THE RELATION BETWEEN COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY 

DEPARTMENTS OF HOME ECONOMICS AND 

THE OUTSIDE COMMUNITY.^ 

William D. Hurd, 

Director of Extension Courses, Massachusetts Agricultural College. 

A discussion of the relation of departments of Home Economics in 
colleges and universities to outside communities opens up for consid- 
eration the whole topic of extension teaching. If I were to search 
for some time for an opinion of a high authority on which to base the 
central thought of this paper, I probably could not find more appHc- 
able material than that contained in a recent address by President 
Lowell. He is quoted as saying last week: 

A university, to be of any great value, must grow out of the community in which 
it lives, and must be in absolute touch with the community, doing all the good it 
can and doing what the community needs. Any institution which is not in abso- 
lutely close touch with the community about it, which attempts to be exotic, which 
attempts to live in the air without contact with the ground, is doomed to wither 
and die. 

The institutions about us today that are doing the most in the way of helping 
their respective communities, are the great state universities of the middle west 
and we have an enormous amount to learn from them. We have to learn to do 
those things which they are doing, and we all realize how much more difficult it is 
to do that in the midst of an urban population with diversified industries than it 
is in a rural commimity with agriculture as the principal industry. It is as easy 
as can be to entertain the public. It is an extremely difficult thing to instruct it. 

Again, the gist of Ex-President Eliot's speech at the inauguration 
of President Nichols of Dartmouth a short time ago, was a strong 
plea for vocational education. He said, not to quote exactly, that our 
subjects taught, our courses of study, our methods today, were all 
the methods of four hundred years ago, and that it was time to break 
away from tradition and change our educational system into one 
suited to the needs of the twentieth century. 

^ Read at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
January, 1910. 

257 



258 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

And again, if I were to think long and work hard in an effort to de- 
scribe what is meant by real, true, dignified extension work, I could not 
begin to picture it as well as it is already portrayed in an old, but 
nevertheless valuable, book treating this subject. To quote several 
passages taken somewhat at random, we find the purposes of exten- 
sion teaching set forth as follows : 

It has a message for men and women alike; for the educated as well as for the 
uneducated; for the rich no less than for the poor. It seems likely to prove one of 
the great organizing and initiating forces so necessary and as yet unfortunately so 
rare in the educational and social life of the United States. 

University extension is a widening of the doors of the college and university so as 
to take in classes of people who are not now directly benefited by the higher insti- 
tutions of learning; it brings to busy people at their homes the opportunity of secur- 
ing university aid and direction in carrying on their studies while engaged in the 
round of daily toil; it renders possible a much better utilization of existing educa- 
tional facihties. 

If imiversity extension did nothing more than this; if it simply made the higher 
learning possible to those who are thirsting for it, who for any reason have not been 
able to share it in their youth or have fallen out of contact w^th it in their advancing 
age, it would still be a movement in which every thoughtful student of human pro- 
gress would be interested. But it means vastly more than this. It begets and 
feeds an interest in higher things, which but for it would never be awakened. It 
stirs many a mind from a weak and slothful intellectual lethargy into a new and 
strong activity, with all the countless and widening circles of influence which such 
an awakening on the part of even one mind begets. It puts new and worthy objects 
of thought into the lives of people who have been content to live on in intellectual 
sloth and barrenness. It turns the current of thought and discussion in whole 
communities from the every-day gossip and tittle-tattle of small social cliques and 
circles into the great and broad stream of human history and science. 

University extension, then, whether we look at it merely as a widening of the 
opportunities of our existing institutions, or as a means of satisfying the intellec- 
tual wants of hungering souls; whether we scrutinize it simply from an admini? 
trative and financial point of view as a device for rendering more serviceable our 
educational plants; whether we regard it merely as a powerful agency in stimulat- 
ing to intellectual effort the minds of thousands of people who without it would have 
gone through life as in a dream, or as a means of purifying and elevating the tone 
of our social life in city, village and country, or as a movement with an educational 
mission to stir and arouse everyone to the importance to himself and the community 
of systematic education along higher lines, and his consequent duty not only to 
pursue a systematic process of self-culture, but also to urge it upon his friends; 
whether we consider it as a most efikient means of enlisting the sympathy and sup- 
port of the community in educational matters as a whole, or as a device to get pub- 
lic and private support for our higher educational institutions, or finally as a great 
movement in the direction of social reform, which promises to be a most powerful 
ally of those tendencies to a higher social life in whose growth we all take so much 
interest — whether it is regarded from one or all of these points of view, university 



iQio] Home Economics Department and the Community 259 

extension must present itself to the thoughtful American citizen as a force which 
it is his duty, as it should be his delight, to conserve and increase in every possible 
way. 

University and college extension (I use the words interchangeably 
in this paper) is not new. 

More than a thousand years ago it occurred to the mind of a great conqueror 
that learning was not after all to be the exclusive property of the monks, that if it 
was well for the church that learning should flourish in its cloisters, it might be well 
for the state that it should be cultivated by the people. He saw that the influence 
of the priesthood came as much from their superior knowledge as from the sanctity 
of their office, and determined that such a factor in civilization should not be re- 
stricted to the few. This underlying principle of extension work was in the mind 
of Charlemagne when he invited Alcuin from England to assist in establishing schools 
throughout the reahn. The results of their joint work helped to prepare the way 
for the great University of Paris, which drew thousands of students from all parts 
of Europe. 

Every one will agree with the soundness and timeliness of the words 
given at the beginning of this paper, from Harvard's new President. 
I may be wrong, but personally I cannot conceive that institutions 
like Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Brown, Amherst, Bowdoin, and others 
of that class, supported by private endowments, and neither asking 
nor receiving financial aid from state or nation, are under any obli- 
gation whatever to carry out any forms of extension work. To be sure, 
their future prosperity and usefulness may depend to a great extent 
on how closely they keep in touch with the live problems of human- 
ity, and so they may seek, and legitimately too, to keep alive by offer- 
ing and doing this extension teaching. If they choose to be unselfish 
and open up their doors so that many besides those enrolled may re- 
ceive the benefits to be derived from their great laboratories and their 
learned men, so much the better for them. 

On the other hand a large number of active, virile institutions, 
state universities and agricultural colleges in this land, depend en- 
tirely for their financial support on acts of legislation passed by Con- 
gress and the different state legislatures. And they have a clearly 
defined duty towards those who perhaps never even see the outside 
of the college buildings, yet continually pay their share of taxes for 
their support. 

Professor Bailey in his book, The College and the State, says: 

These colleges of agriculture are forcing a new definition of education. The 
institution does not passively accept all students who come. All persons in the 
commonwealth are properly students of a state educational institution, but very 



26o The Journal of Home Economics [June 

few of them yet have registered, nor is it necessary that any great proportion of 
them should leave home in order to receive some of the benefits of the institution. 
It is the obligation of such an institution to serve all the people, and it is equally 
the obligation of all the people to make the institution such that it can exercise its 
proper functions; and all this can be brought about without sacrificing any worthy 
standards of education. 

It was clearly in the intent of the Morrill Land Grant Act, passed by 
the Congress of 1862, and was impHed in the phrase which reads: "to 
teach such branches as are related to agriculture and the mechanic 
arts, in such manner as the legislatiires of the states may respectively 
prescribe, in order to promote the liberal and practical education of the 
industrial classes in the several pursuits and professions of life," that 
such a subject as Home Economics should be included. About thirty 
years after the passing of the act establishing colleges for teaching, 
the Hatch Act for conducting experimental work went into effect. 

Until recently the work of state institutions has been divided be- 
tween these two agencies. Calls from outside for help came so fast 
that both the class work of the professors and the research work of 
the investigators were seriously interfered with. Coupled with this 
came a realization of the necessity of keeping in touch with real things, 
and that the college owed something to the ninety-nine per cent of 
the population who could not come to it for instruction, as well as to 
the one per cent who were fortunate enough to be able to obtain a col- 
lege education. Within the last ten years about twenty of the lead- 
ing state universities and agricultural colleges have estabhshed depart- 
ments of extension work. The Association of American Agricultural 
Colleges and Experiment Stations, at its meeting last August, recog- 
nized this form of teaching as coordinate and on the same plane with 
college instruction and research work, and organized it as a third sec- 
tion. A bill has been recently introduced into Congress recommend- 
ing a Federal appropriation to each state to be used in opening the 
doors of schools and colleges to all classes not yet directly benefited 
by these institutions. 

If an attempt is to be made to carry education to all the people, this 
education must be sound, well directed, and must have some meaning 
to them. Extension work has savored too much of exploitation in the 
past. The time has gone by when extension work is done for adver- 
tising purposes. It is serious work, carried out with a definite pur- 
pose in view. It will no longer be effective when carried on with a 
patronizing spirit. Those who receive instruction through extension 



iQioJ Home Economics Department and the Community 261 

courses have a right to feel just as much dignity in their study as though 
they were pursuing the same subjects within college halls. 

Such, in brief, is the history of the rise of the extension idea and the 
status of the work in this country at the present time. 

There does not seem to me to be any question as to the place Home 
Economics, taken in its broadest sense, shall occupy in our educational 
system. Manifestly it should be on a par with any other science or 
group of subjects. I have never been told, neither have I found a 
logical reason why the great women's colleges should practically ignore 
It. In state universities and colleges of agriculture and mechanic 
arts, It IS now taking the place it should take-that is, one of the chief 
divisions. Several splendid institutions teaching the subjects which 
comprise Home Economics are affiliated with some of the leading 
educational institutions of the east. You teachers of Home Econo- 
mics aim at the root of our civilization— the home. A recent writer 
on sociology says: 

The home which is charged with the task of bringing new individuals into the 
world, sociahzmg them, and furnishing them with their ideas of brotherhood and 
ser\ace, is by far the most important institution of society, church and state sink- 
mg mto significance when compared with it. 

^ To say the least, Home Economics has been a "most neglected sub- 
ject and It is to be hoped that from now on the opportunity will be 
given you, who are really the deans of this movement, to expand 
your work through the schools, colleges, universiries, and the agencies 
through which extension teaching may be carried on, as has been, and 
IS bemg given m a larger way than ever before, to other lines of edu- 
cational work. 

There is one field in which you have an unique opportunity. I tried 
to show at the October meeting, held in this place, that there was need 
of your turnmg your attention to country life and rural problems. No 
doubt there are three sets of problems presented to you, all of which 
need attention, viz., the problem of home life in the congested city 
that of the suburban town; and that of the rural community, including 
the small village. WhHe these may appear to be distinct, I am in- 
chned to beheve that they are not distinct from the sociological stand- 
pomt, but only in the kind of work which you can carry out, and the 
manner in which you approach the different conditions. In fact we 
hear too much about there being a "rural problem" and a "city prob- 
em." It seems tome they are practically one. The city continuaUy 
looks to the country for new Hfe and vigor to keep up its population 



262 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

and industrial progress. The country constantly looks to the city 
for amusement, school advantages, and opportunity for trade. The 
fact that the two are so interdependent makes it absolutely necessary 
that the home life, the schools, the churches, and all the institutions 
in either be governed and directed by much the same influences, else 
there must be great readjustment as the population shifts from country 
to city or city to country. 

I am not very clear in my own mind as to what the relation of depart- 
ments in colleges and universities to the city community can be. 
Surely the same advantages for extension teaching are not offered as 
in either the suburban town or the rural community. Home Eco- 
nomics can be taught in the schools, and there is evidently need of 
this, for several of our New England cities range above seventy-five 
per cent foreign born or of foreign parenta^^e, and these children usually 
have entirely different home influences than our native born children. 
Through women's clubs, church clubs. Young Women's Christian 
Associations, night schools, and by itinerant lectures both at the col- 
lege or university if situated in the city, and in school buildings and 
churches, much work could be carried on ; and yet it does not seem to 
me that the life of the average city lends itself very readily to this 
kind of work. 

With the suburban town the case is different. A more wholesome 
home life is maintained. Usually suburban towns are alive with 
progressive ideas and spirit. It is not so hard to interest parents, 
teachers, and others in their home problems, as in the city; and there 
is opportunity for transferring much of the college and university 
teaching right into the heart of the communities through cooperating 
with the agencies already named, and the organization of classes for 
further study. 

The greatest field of usefulness now open for the departments of 
Home Economics in colleges is that offered by our rural communities. 
Too much of the sociological study of the past has been devoted to 
urban conditions. To quote Prof essor Bailey again : He says: 

One of the great needs of the time in social studies is that we discover the rural 
community. 

The country must not be exploited for the city, but must be developed for itself 
and out of itself. 

There must be a country social order as there is a city social order. 

One might think from many current discussions that the country exists for the 
convenience and benefit of the city, providing occupation for those who have failed 
to attach themselves in cities, and an asylum for the undesirables. 



19 lo] Home Economics Department and the Community 263 

James J. Hill is urging maximum crop production to the acre as one 
of the vital rural problems, else starvation faces future generations 
in this country. But is this all? Must not our land produce a civil- 
ization as well; or, as President Butterfield of the Massachusetts 
Agricultural College in his Chapters on Rural Progress says: 

The farmer's interest in the political, social, and economic problems of his calling 
is fully as great as in those Durelv technical and scientific. 

The argument has always been made that a woman's life on the farm 
was one of drudgery, that the isolation led to much insanity, and that 
there was no chance for social opporttmity. Yet the women of the coun- 
try have just as great resources as do the city women. The grange and 
fanners' institute movements have caused women to find themselves. 
They have brought culture, and given the wife a chance to take her 
place beside her husband. While the average women's club does not 
reach farm women, yet in many places the organization of town and 
country clubs, and rest rooms where women from the small city, vil- 
lage and country may meet and have social intercourse, has done 
much to bring about changed conditions. If farm life for women is 
drudgery, and if there is not at present opportunity for social privi- 
leges, then here is a chance for the Home Economics departments in 
colleges and universities to correct conditions which need changing 
badly. 

There are many other ways in which a department of Home Eco- 
nomics can help rural communities. The grange, which has already been 
spoken of, offers a medium for lecture work and the organization of 
classes for study. The rural school buildings, idle about half of the 
time, could be used as a meeting place for rural school teachers and 
mothers, to gather and discuss with a trained home economist problems 
of home making. It has seemed to me for a long time that the most 
elementary discussion of the school luncheon by a teacher, with per- 
haps a one-burner oil stove for the preparation of tasty dishes, would 
be one of the best things that could be introduced mto a rural school, 
and also one much needed. 

The village church, used only a part of one day a week, could be 
utilized in a similar way. School teachers might be given some simple 
lessons in cooking, sewing, and other household problems, and they 
in turn could repeat these to their pupils. 

The Home Economics department of a college might initiate a move- 
ment to have the village library well supplied with books treating of 



264 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

these subjects. Every farmers' institute should have a women's 
section. No doubt one hundred lectures are given at institute meet- 
ings on live stock feeding to one on proper food for man. 

The matter of the relation of different members of the family to each 
other, family integrity, and like subjects, should always be given a 
prominent place on the program. That home making is a vocation 
should be emphasized. The conditions under which children are 
brought up and trained needs study, not cold blooded statistical inves- 
tigation, but healthy sympathetic study. The advantages of country 
life should be emphasized — not the sentimental side so much expound- 
ed, but the fact that people in the country live under the most normal 
and what ought to be the most ideal and wholesome conditions; and 
the opportunities for personal growth and the chance to be of service 
to others, is worth being made much of. 

Read that little book. What One Woman did for Farm Women, and 
see how near you can approach being a Mrs. Mayo. Her work will 
be felt in Michigan for generations to come. 

I do not know that the architecture of rural communities is any 
worse than that seen on the average street of small cities, but there is 
a chance for improvenent of both. Surely the city house is not 
adapted to the needs of country life, and much work both in planning 
and location of buildings would be worth while. 

The average country kitchen is usually not half as well equipped with 
conveniences as the farm itself. If there is any place on earth where 
labor-saving devices and modern conveniences are needed, it is in the 
average American farm house. 

The matter of the sanitation of rural communities is one that affects 
both city and country alike. Many of our worst contagious diseases 
are commonly traced to farms as a source. The disposal of wastes, the 
protection of water supplies, and the production of clean, safe milk, 
will permit of all the extension lectures that can be given during many 
years to come. Home nursing too, and the prevention of disease, the 
fact that fresh air is not fatal when breathed by human beings, also 
need much demonstration. 

There is a field for education in art, too. The fact that reproduc- 
tions of the work of great masters can now be secured at the same price 
that is paid for the gaudy chromo, leaves no excuse for everyone not 
having in his home copies of those paintings which bring out all that 
is best in mankind. 

Taste in dress, too, could be much improved. That our country 



iQio] Home Economics Department and the Community 265 

people in America should adopt a style of dress which would in any 
way mark them as country people, is of course not to be thought of 
or advocated by anyone who claims to possess even ordinary common 
sense. But the effect of an effort to produce a bonnet at a cost of two 
dollars, which shall imitate exactly the bonnet of the city woman 
which perhaps cost fifty dollars, may be one of the things causing some 
of the extremely unpleasant remarks which one often overhears. 

To say that moral conditions are worse in the country than in the 
city is treading on extremely dangerous ground, and perhaps it would 
be hard to maintain such a stand if once taken. This much is true, and 
very generally recognized by those who have lived in the country — that 
there is very great opportunity constantly afforded boys and girls in 
the country for immoral practices. Country girls especially are not 
sophisticated, and the recent exposures of the white slave traffic, 
which would tend to show that country girls furnish a large share of 
the unwilUng recruits of this abominable business, calls for a frank 
discussion, somewhere, of those topics so hard to discuss. 

I have mentioned but a few of the ways in which departments of 
Home Economics may help, but I cannot see any end of opportunities 
for these departments to reach out and be of real service, through well- 
directed extension work. 

But you will say it is absolutely impossible to reach all the people. 
This, in a large part, is true, and if the attempt is made to rejuvenate 
city or country by trying to arouse and carry individuals with you, 
the result will be a failure. The great problem is to train leaders. It 
is of no use to start desirable movements unless there is some one in 
sympathy with them and ready to carry them on. Such persons are 
to be found in every community, and one of the chief duties of the 
person sent out by a college department is to seek out those who will 
make good leaders, arouse them, and leave the local work largely in 
their charge. 

Extension teaching ought to appeal particularly to New England 
educational and social workers. Did you ever think what a magnifi- 
cent opportunity and field for spreading the gospel of better homes, 
better schools, better government, and a higher social order, you have? 
Compare New England with any of the much flaunted states of the 
middle west — I care not which one — and the odds are in our favor. 
I can say this without fear of being accused of New England pride, 
for I am not a native here, although a firm believer in her future. The 
agencies we have at hand for making our institutions take the place 



266 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

they should in the community, according to President Lowell's defi- 
nition, are multiple. Geographically we have about the same area as 
the average state of the middle west. A score and more of the oldest 
and best institutions of learning are to be found within our borders. 
Six colleges and seven experiment stations for the discovery and dis- 
semination of agricultural information ; six boards of agriculture con- 
ducting institutes, against one, or at the most two, in any state which 
you might mention; six state departments of education, compared 
with one in any other state; cities well organized for charitable, edu- 
cational and social advancement; unexcelled transportation facili- 
ties; an atmosphere of culture; unsurpassed wealth for the support of 
commendable industrial and educational enterprises; and a cUmate 
and scenery which appeal to the aesthetic side of human nature, and 
which are admirably adapted to teaching an appreciation of the beau- 
ties to be foimd in the things about us. These things form a part of 
the heritage of the people who live in New England. When will we 
realize to the fullest extent the opportunities we have, and when will 
we begin to take advantage of them? 

The criticism is often made that New England colleges are not doing 
for their communities what the colleges of the middle west are doing 
for theirs. Admitting that an endowed institution has no direct 
obligations to the public, that extension work for the public good is 
merely an optional matter with them, and comparing the land grant 
colleges of New England with those of the middle west, I think the 
answer to this arraignment lies almost wholly in two factors. First, 
the lack of financial support which the land grant colleges in New Eng- 
land have received, this small financial support being no doubt due 
largely to the fact that there have been so many wealthy, privately 
endowed institutions previously occupying the field. Secondly, be- 
cause until very recently these eastern land grant colleges have been 
manned not by men with state university and agricvdtural college 
training and ideals, but by men whose training and ideals partook more 
of the nature of the eastern classical colleges, from which most of them 
graduated. But a new era is upon the eastern land grant institutions. 
Men with the same ideals which have made the state universities of the 
middle west useful and great, are now guiding the policies of most of 
the eastern colleges where agriculture, mechanic arts and Home Eco- 
nomics are taught, and at even the present rate of progress the time 
is not far distant when these institutions may be expected to be as 
useful to the communities on which they depend for their life as any 
that can be mentioned. 



igio] Home Economics Department and the Community 267 

To quote again from President Lowell. He says : 

We have a number of educational institutions in and about Boston. Those 
institutions are all endeavoring to reach out their hands to try and do something for 
the communities in which they live. But as yet there is practically no cooperation 
among them. That is the next thing we must bring about. At present we are 
duplicating one another's work. With cooperation there is no reason why we 
could not be, so far as instruction is concerned, a model commvmity. 

To the end that such cooperation may be cultivated and secured, a 
meeting of all the New England college presidents has been called 
early in January. 

That there is need of carrying the principles of Home Economics, 
using the term in its broadest sense, abroad over all the land, is, I 
believe, generally admitted. That colleges and universities, especially 
those supported by state and national funds, have a duty to the com- 
munities in which they are located, and to their respective states, is 
also generally admitted. It then remains for this association, and for 
officers of such institutions as have departments of these sciences, to 
make possible through an increased corps of instructors a general dis- 
semination of useful information; and it behooves those who cannot 
go to institutions of learning for this work to offer every facility to 
instructors in these subjects so that the work may be effective, and may 
reach every person who has ambition to improve himself, his home, 
and the other institutions which make for the higher social welfare of 
the cormnunity. 



SOCIAL WORK FOR STUDENTS OF HOME ECONOMICS. 
Caroleste L. Hunt. 

The publication of Professor Commons' score card for houses in 
the February issue of the Journal calls attention to a form of social 
service which I believe that students of Home Economics are better 
prepared to render than any other class in the community. Perhaps I 
can best convey the idea I have in mind by referring to an address made 
by Sidney Webb before the Social and Educational League in London 
about two years ago. In this address Mr. Webb used the term "national 
minimum" to indicate that there is a certain minimum of leisure, of 
sanitation, of education and of recreation which in the interest of all 
its citizens a nation must assure to each mdividual citizen. And he 
suggested that the "formulation and enforcement of the national mini- 
mum" offered a program for action in which all classes in society, lib- 
erals and conservatives, democrats and aristocrats, trade unionists and 
capitalists, socialists and individualists might in spite of their differ- 
ences of opinion unite. 

This is not a new idea to us, of course, though in this country we 
are more familiar with state minima than with tiational minima. Every 
state has established a minimum of education and as it grows more 
enhghtened it tends to raise this minimum. In Massachusetts there is 
now among thoughtful people a belief that sixteen and not fourteen 
years should be the minimum time of preparation for life. Ohio has 
gone so far as to empower local boards of education to use school funds 
for the purpose of making it possible for boys and girls to stay in school 
up to the age of sixteen if they wish to continue their education instead 
of going to work. Oregon and Illinois have by passing ten hour laws 
for women in factories set a minimum of leisure. We find Miss Addams 
in her latest book pleading, though not in these exact terms, for a mini- 
mum provision for recreation as a necessary outlet and means of 
expression for "the spirit of youth." The policy of the national 
minimum, the policy of establishing a line below which no man, woman 
or child may sink or be pushed has certainly determined most of our 
progressive legislation in the past and it seems likely as Mr. Webb 

268 



iQio] Social Work in Home Economics 



269 



says, to "inspire, and guide, and explain the statesmanship and poli- 
tics of the twentieth century." 

But back of progressive legislation there must be facts upon which 
to found it. You cannot, for example, insist on sunlight for every 
man, woman and child without having scientific facts and carefully 
prepared statistics to show that sunlight is necessary to physical vigor. 
The national minimum must be a composite of values that have been 
tried and proved. The experimentation necessary for the estabHsh- 
ment of these values seems to fall to voluntary organizations. But 
back of the efforts of these organizations must be careful scientific 
work. The efforts of the public health association to assure to every 
man a minimum of cleanliness in his environment must be based on 
bacteriological data. The Consumers' League in its efforts to limit 
the working day is relying upon the demonstration of the existence 
of a toxin of fatigue or other physiological data. Playgrounds associ- 
ations and public school art societies find support in scientific demon- 
strations of the necessity of recreation and beauty as factors in the 
normal, healthful life. 

Professor Commons' score card is, as I understand it, one of the most 
important steps that has been taken of late toward determining what 
houses are fit for human- habitation and what allowance must be made 
for rent in determining the minimum wage. But the card must be 
perfected; it must be used and criticised inteUigently. I happened to 
be at Mrs. Richards' house when she received the first rough draft 
and she asked me to score her house. As a result she made certain 
suggestions which were embodied in^ the card and which seemed to 
me to improve it greatly. As the result, too, of this scoring a point 
came out that still seems to me to call for consideration. Of course I 
expected her house to score perfect. There was Hght on all sides, no 
houses near enough to it to cut off sun; there was window space far 
above the required amount in every room and all the other things nec- 
essary for health were present. I could give the house, however, a 
grade of only 98 because the land did not slope away from it on all 
sides. I may not imderstand this point but it seems to me that to 
suggest that every house must be higher than all other houses or else 
score less than perfect is Uke saying that there should never be a young- 
est child in any family because he is sure to be spoiled, 01 like saying 
that there must never be a last car on a train because it is exposed to 
extraordinary dangers. There are doubtless many other questions that 
will arise and have to be settled before the card can be considered 
entirely adequate. 



270 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

As I said in the beginning, students of Home Economics ought to 
be able to give it the benefit of very helpful criticism. I hope that the 
use of the card will be made a class exercise in every school of domestic 
science in the country. House-scoring parties might be formed to do 
the work in groups thus reducing to a minimum the routine work of 
measuring. It would be necessary to get for the purpose an empty 
house or one with an occupant sufficiently obliging to permit his dwell- 
ing place to be scored. It will doubtless be possible to find a person 
who is thinking of renting a house and will be glad to have it thoroughly 
studied. Whenever possible two houses should be scored at the same 
time for this tends to bring out the weak and strong points in the card. 
Suppose that houses "A" and "B " are scored. When judged by ordi- 
nary methods and according to ordinary standards "A" appears more 
desirable than "B" and yet when judged by the score-card it receives 
the lower mark. This indicates one of two things; either that impor- 
tant points escaped the notice during casual observation, or else that 
incorrect relative values have been assigned to the various points on 
the card. The discussion which inevitably follows the scoring tends 
to determine whether or not the card is at fault. 

In closing I want to express my satisfaction that domestic science 
as a means of showing a few well-favored families how to make and 
get the most out of their advantages seems to be occupying our atten- 
tion less and less and that domestic science as a means of setting stand- 
ards and of helping every member of the community to live up to 
them seems to be growing in popularity. 



TEACHING DOMESTIC SCIENCE TO DIFFERENT 
NATIONALITIES. 

[A query from a California teacher in regard to special methods of 
teaching foreigners was referred to Mrs. Mary E. WHliams, Supervisor 
of Domestic Science in the New York Public Schools. The following 
report has been received. — Ed.] 

In the teaching of kosher cooking a double equipment is used in one 
school, but this is not necessary for all schools where Hebrews pre- 
dominate. Excellent work is being done in some New York schools 
where the kosher laws are followed in regard only to the use of soap 
and also in regard to meat. Several school members in the Hebrew 
districts seem to feel that there are so many different degrees of ortho- 
doxy that it would be useless to attempt in the public school to carry 
out to any greater extent the kosher cooking. In regard to Italian 
children, the course of study is the same as for other nationaUties, 
as the little ItaHan children are most anxious to learn American ways. 
The Italians are not great meat eaters, and they are also taught their 
own dishes such as macaroni and spaghetti. 

Extracts from a report by Miss Mollie S. Kelly follow: "The public 
school teaches American cooking and American ways of living. It 
respects aU religions, but favors none." This is what a domestic science 
teacher in the New York public schools said in answer to the question, 
"How do you teach cooking to so many nationahties and religions?" 
To teach them American ways, however, is very acceptable to the 
children, for if you ask a child who has been a few years in the public 
school, "What nationality are you?" the answer is sure to be, "I am 
an American." 

In regard to the teaching of cooking to Hebrew children, the dietary 
laws are so distinctly a part of their life that wherever it is possible, 
as for instance in the opening of new kitchens in Jewish districts, the 
kitchens are made to conform to these laws. They must be kosher, or 
the children will not taste anything cooked there. For instance, no 
soap is used in washing dishes, although soap may be used to wash the 
dish-cloths and towels. In the dish washing only sapolio and hot water, 
is used. In some kosher kitchens the sapolio is of a Yiddish make, 

271 



272 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

colored pink and blue, but in most domestic science kitchens the ordi- 
nary white sapolio has been adopted. 

Milk and meat are never mixed. A separate set of dishes must be 
used to cook and serve them and they are never combined in one dish, 
or served at the same meal. With the changing population in New 
York, one nationality replacing another, in many domestic science 
kitchens the double equipment is not used, the meat lessons being 
replaced by extra housekeeping and baking lessons. 

Jewish children are very intelligent, interested, and good workers. 
The girls nearly all marry young, at 17 or 18, and many go no further 
than the pubUc school. Even there, the thought of the future is upper- 
most, "I think," said one little girl, "that the nicest thing for a girl 
to know is to keep the house good and make the meals." Or, as the 
school motto, "The mission of the ideal woman is to make the whole 
world homelike," was rendered, "We must keep the house clean, and 
don't let any roaches creep round." 

In a Jewish school are found many nationahties, Roumanian, Aus- 
trians, Russians and Enghsh. They are all bound by the common die- 
tary laws, but each country's methods of cooking have been adopted. 

Spaghetti and macaroni, served with cheese are of course the familiar 
dishes of the Italians. Cooking with cheese among the Jewish children 
is commonly described as "Italian cooking." The Itahans use the 
dried peas and beans for soup, but these are never used among 
the Jews imtil the children use them in the school kitchens. The 
common American cereals, as oatmeal, farina, etc., are not popular 
dishes in the school kitchens, unless served with fruit in some such 
combination as oatmeal and bananas, or farina and prunes. The 
teacher in an Itahan district spoke of ' ' corn-meal . ' ' The chil dren looked 
blank, until some corn was shown them, when a general cry of " a polent," 
was raised. Corn-meal mush fried with a very appetizing blending 
of meat or used as we would use toast, usually forms some part of 
a truly Itahan dinner. 

So many times the teacher in an Italian section finds it of great 
use to her to know the common Italian names for things. For instance 
in a class of children for whom the language was still difficult, the 
teacher gave the directions, " Now you may take out your saucers." No 
response. But at the word, "piatina," every drawer flew open. How- 
ever, in the kitchen, Enghsh is used as much as possible. 

Italian children as a rule are very responsive and so full of life that 
it is not easy to concentrate their thoughts. "My greatest difficulty," 
said a domestic science teacher, "is that my Itahan children are so 



iQio] Teaching Different Nationalities 273 

eager to begin, they start long before they know what they are going 
to do." They are very anxious to be Americanized, and quick to learn 
American ways. 

"But what good is it all — do they use it at home?" That is the 
question a cooking teacher has asked her much oftener than a teacher 
of algebra or physics, or any of the other branches. " I took my brother 
the cake I made and he liked it so much I made it three times." Or, 
"My mother said things for tea must be sweet, so she put some sugar 
in the tea-biscuit." The things the children learn in the kitchen are 
most interesting to the mothers who feel that this is something they 
can understand. 

Miss Ameha Cohen also reports the following as to the kosher 
kitchen: 

The main point to observe in conducting a kosher kitchen is to keep 
separate all dishes used in cooking milk or milk products and those 
used to cook meat in. This necessitates a double equipment kept in 
separate closets, i.e., two different sets of utensils. Even a double set 
of dish-pans and towels should be provided. If the pots, knives, forks, 
dish-pans, towels, etc. of each set are of different shapes or colors the 
practical working out of this idea is made more feasible — for if they are 
all alike they must be marked to distinguish them. 

No soap or any cleaning materials which contain animal fats 
should be used in washing either set of dishes. However, soap made 
from kosher fat can be used for washing dishes used to cook meat in. 
In a kosher kitchen the free use of sal-soda solution, bath-brick, rot- 
tenstone, and ashes is to be recommended. 

All shell fish and fish that have no scales or fins are not considered 
kosher. The hind part of any four legged animal even though killed 
kosher is not used, and all meat from the pig is excluded. All meat from 
the fore-quarter is put through a certain process before it is called 
kosher and so is poultry. 

Carrying out these ideas, most dishes taught in other school kitchens 
can be adapted to a kosher kitchen. Examples are potatoes, whether 
baked, boiled, riced, or creamed; all cereals; eggs; fruits baked or 
stewed; junket; cheese ramekins; custards; bread, cornstarch or 
tapioca puddings; cream soups; muffins; popovers; tea biscuits; cakes; 
yeast breads; rolls and buns; all vegetables; meat (from the fore-quar- 
ter only) ; poultry (fresh killed and kosher) ; fish and noodles. 

In equipping a kosher kitchen, both sets of utensils must be entirely 
new because the old equipment has been used for both meat and milk 
and therefore is considered "trefa" (not kosher). 



THE TURK AND HIS TABLE. 

N. Tashjian. 

Nowhere in the world is there so rich or varied a table as in Turkey. 
The country is situated where tropical and semi-tropical fruits and 
vegetables abound, as well as products from the more temperate zones. 
Not only has Turkey good things to eat in abimdance, but she has also 
an almost unhmi ted number of styles of cooking and serving, due to her 
cosmopoHtan population. It is for just this reason almost impossible 
to make a general statement as to Turkish habits and customs of eating 
and living. In most of the cities, and especially among the educated 
class, the European manners of living and table service are adopted. 
The old-fashioned mode of Uving and eating still prevails, however, 
in some of the smaller towns and villages. 

Here is a description of an old-fashioned dinner. The table consists 
of a large circular copper tray set on a low stool. Around this table the 
guests take position on low cushions. In the ceiiter of the table are 
fifteen to twenty small dishes, containing various delicacies, such as 
preserved rose leaves, cherry jam, grape jelly, sardines, cheese, olives and 
the like. A slight skirmish with these appetizers prepares the way for the 
real business of the hoiu*. Course after course is brought on a big dish 
and set in the middle of the table, from which all may help themselves. 
Many of the dishes are meats cooked in appetizing ways and well 
seasoned. After a succession of ten or twelve courses, various fruits 
and sweetmeats are served and last of all comes the thick Turkish 
coffee served in tiny cups with saucers. 

After this absorbing labor of eating, the washing of hands is essential. 
This is accomplished before the guests leave the table. A servant carries 
around an ewer and basin and each one in turn washes his hands. 

Conversation does not flourish to any extent at Turkish dinners, save 
ejaculations of approval of any particularly tasty bit or some compli- 
ments to the hostess on her ability in cooking. In some parts of Turkey 
the social hfe consists mainly in giving big dinners to a large circle of 
friends. The Turk, with his characteristic hospitaUty and love of dis- 
play, plays an ideal part as a host. The Turkish housewife prides her- 

274 



19 lo] The Turk and His Table 275 

self upon taking an active part in cooking, even when she has a num- 
ber of servants. There is no greater honor to a guest than to be served 
by the hostess herself, and with the additional knowledge that she 
herself has prepared the dish. The Turkish housewife is well aware 
that the most effective means of winning and keeping her lord's heart 
is by keeping a well supplied and varied table, and to this end all her 
attention and skill is directed from her childhood. 

Turkish dishes as a rule require great skill and care and much time for 
preparation. I shall not attempt to describe dishes which require 
eight hours of cooking and a good many years of experience to prepare 
well. These, beyond satisfying the curiosity of some and arousing the 
pity of others for the poor housewife, would be of no practical use to 
the American housewife. 

Here are some simple recipes for preparing dishes which I trust will 
be gladly welcomed by those who Uke to have something new, easy, and 
at the same time delicious, and which show in perhaps the most direct 
way the character of typical Turkish dishes. Each land has its favorite 
varieties of vegetables and its spices, seasoning, and so on. This means 
that the recipes of one country often need some study to make them 
suited to the conditions and materials found in another country. The 
Turkish dishes selected have been tested with American materials 
and American cooking utensils. They were studied experimentally in 
the attempt to prepare typical Turkish foods imder new conditions. 

Pilaf, which is a standard dish in Turkey, is an excellent way of pre- 
paring rice and the method described below is the easiest one, requir- 
ing only 30 minutes. Put in a pan 4^ cups of broth or water and bring 
to a boiling point. Add to it a Uttle tomato juice and season it with 
salt and pepper. Wash two cups of rice and put in the boiHng broth or 
water. Do not stir the rice, but decrease the heat as the broth is being 
absorbed by the rice. After 10 or 15 minutes, all the broth should be 
absorbed and the rice thoroughly cooked, keeping still its single grains. 
Take the pan away from the fire. Melt a tablespoonful of butter and 
pour on the rice. Cover the pan with a thick linen or cotton cloth and 
then put on the lid. This will keep the rice soft and yet not mushy. 
Serve five minutes later. Never stir the rice while cooking or after- 
wards, as the slightest stirring would convert the whole into a pasty 
mass. The rice should be thoroughly cooked and still have each grain 
firm and distinct. 

Tomatoes are a favorite vegetable in the Mediterranean region. 
Stuffed Tomatoes orDomates Dolma, to give them their Turkish name, 



276 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

are prepared as follows: Select a dozen smooth and round tomatoes. 
Cut a thin slice from the stem, leaving a httle hinge. Remove the 
seeds and pulp, and fill the cavity with the following preparation: 

Two tablespoonfulsof cooked rice, half a pound of raw beef, 2 onions, 
all passed through the grinder. Season with salt, pepper, and parsley, and 
fry in a pan for 10 minutes, stirring all the time. Fill the tomatoes 
with this mixture and cover the top. Put the tomatoes into a granite 
pan and bake in an oven 20 minutes. Take them out with a broad knife 
and serve them hot. 

Perhaps no dish is so genuinely Turkish as stuffed grape vine leaves 
or Sarma, and strange to say, this is the dish besthkedbyall foreigners. 
Perhaps the novel combination and still more novel way of cooking 
counts in its favor. 

The careful wrapping of the tender grape vine leaves suggests to 
one's mind the wrapping of the green scarf (sarup) around the head of 
the Mohammedans. At every wedding dinner this dish is served, 
and perhaps quite a number of the wedding guests have spent the 
previous evening helping in the preparation of the 500 or more little 
wrapped parcels which are soon to disappear. On such occasions one of 
the company usually tells a tale from the Arabian Nights, while the 
rest are busy with their fingers. So much is this delicacy relished in 
Turkish boarding schools that the standing of the institution is said 
to be judged by the frequency with which it is served. 

For the preparation of Sarma or Taprak Dolma, a hundred or more 
fresh tender grapevine leaves will be needed. Wash them well and boil 
them in salted water for a few minutes, enough to make the leaves a 
little tender. Take the leaves out of the water and press out all the 
water from them. Prepare the following stuffing: A pound of minced 
raw mutton and two spoonfuls of broken rice. Season with suit, 
pepper, and parsley, and mix them well. Take a single vine leaf in 
your left hand and break the stem oft'. Put in the middle of the leaf 
a Uttle of the stuffing, the size of a walnut. Fold over it first the end 
of the leaf, then each side, roll from top to bottom until it looks like 
an inch long sausage. Place the stuffed leaves close together in a 
small pan layer after layer. Pour on two cups of water, cover the 
pan and cook on a slow fire long enough for the rice to be thoroughly 
cooked. A small plate will be found helpful to press down the stuffed 
leaves while cooking. Do not stir while cooking as it may unfold the 
vine leaves. The secret of the dish is in preparing so that the rolls will 
keep in perfect shape and the leaf and stuffing not come apart. This 



19 lo] The Turk and His Table I'j'j 

is served with some sour sauce, ten to fifteen of these being enough for 
one person. 

Egg Plant Pie or Mousakkah is an example of a well-seasoned dish 
made from a vegetable which itself has no very marked flavor. Slice half 
a dozen egg plants lengthwise one-fifth of an inch thick, salt each sHce 
and put in piles under a weight for several hours. Wash off the salt 
and fry until slightly browned on both sides. Take half a pound of 
minced raw meat, season and fry in its own fat until well cooked, stir- 
ring all the while. Put in a baking pan alternate layers of egg plants and 
the prepared meat, add just a httle water or tomato juice or a few 
sliced tomatoes if desired. Bake ten minutes or imtil well browned. 
Serve hot. 

Turkish egg plants are slender and long, and have a sweeter or more 
decided taste than the ones here. It is not necessary in Turkey to put 
the egg plants imder a heavy weight. They can be cooked right away. 

Stuffed Oysters are a favorite Turkish dish, the smooth-shelled 
oysters common in Turkey being used. These are not obtainable in 
the United States but in the study of American materials and Turkish 
dishes it was found that American clams could be substituted with 
good results. They should be prepared as follows: 

Wash four dozen clams well and put them in boiling water till the 
shells begin to open. Prepare the following mixture for stuffing the 
clams: Cut 5 large onions very fine, mix it with a teacupful of rice. 
Season with salt, pepper and parsley. Put in a frying pan a teacupful 
of ohve oil and fry in it for a few minutes the mixed rice and onions. 
Stir it all the while, so that the onions do not burn or get brown. 
After the onions are slightly softened, remove from the fire. Open each 
clam, remove the loose membrane, put a Httle of the stuffing in and 
close the shell. Be careful not to pull the shells apart. Arrange the 
clams in a baking pan layer after layer. Barely cover with water. 
Cook until almost all the water is absorbed and the rice cooked. 
Decrease the heat gradually. Serve either hot or cold. 

All Turkish dishes have an individual taste and appearance, due to 
the cooking of vegetables and meat together. In this way the meat 
imparts to the vegetable some of its essence, while the vegetable yields 
its delicate flavor, giving an altogether individual taste to the dish. In 
Turkey vegetables are very seldom served merely boiled, they are either 
fried after dipping in egg or prepared with meat. These combinations 
give rise to innumerable ways of preparing various dishes, and for this 
reason Turkish meals are never in danger of becoming monotonous. A 



278 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

well organized home would never dream of serving the same dish 
twice within a week or two. In America, most vegetables are just boiled, 
seasoned, and served separately with the meat. This has it own advan- 
tage no doubt, and the simpHcity of preparation may have been its 
great attraction, but this is the great cause of the sameness of American 
meals. 

Sweets are much reHshed in Eastern lands and Turkish sweetmeats 
are perhaps the food products which are most familiar outside of 
Turkey for Turkish DeHght and similar kinds of confectionery such 
as Rabat Lokum, Paklava, and Kadaif, are very popular in Europe 
and the United States. Recipes for the preparation of such Turkish 
sweetmeats can be foimd in journals and books which are concerned 
with cookery. 

The examples and descriptions of Turkish dishes which have been 
given are sufficient to show something of the character of the foods and 
the ways in which they are eaten in Turkish homes. Anyone familiar 
with the subject will concede that the Turk has an abundant and 
varied diet, and it should be clear that the hst of palatable foods and 
dishes is a long one. Indeed, this might be expected, for cereal crops 
and farm animals are raised in abundance in Turkey. Fruits and vege- 
tables are grown in great variety, Turkey, Uke most of the Mediterran- 
ean region, being a very favored spot from an agricultural standpoint. 
Furthermore, skill in cookery is a matter of pride with Turkish house- 
wives. 



THE PASTEURIZATION OF CITY MILK SUPPLIES. 

Minna C. Denton. 

The details of the process of pasteurization as practiced in different 
localities and by different physicians and sanitarians vary widely. It 
may mean anything from ten or fifteen minutes' to thirty minutes' 
heating at a temperature of from 60° C. (140° F.) to 75° C. or even 
80° C. (i 76° F.) As a rule, the higher temperatures and longer periods 
of time are the standards recommended by earlier authorities, more 
recent ones having recognized two important facts, first that the un- 
desirable changes produced in the heating of milk for a number of 
minutes at 75° or 80° or even 70° C. take place to almost as great an 
extent as if the milk were boiled; second, that a large percentage of 
non-spored bacteria, including all pathogenic forms (imder properly 
arranged conditions) are killed at 60° C. maintained for twenty 
minutes, thus making the milk as safe as the somewhat higher temper- 
atures which still fail to destroy the vitality of the spores. 

In order that pasteurization shall accompHsh the maximum benefit, 
other details besides the degree and time of heating must be attended 
to. A complete definition of the process would cover the following 
points: 

(i) Exposure for a few minutes (10 to 20) to heat not above 70° C 
(158° F.), or preferably 5° to 10° C. lower than that, and under the 
following conditions: 

(a) The vessel in which the milk is heated must be covered closely 
and filled to the cover or almost so; for exposure to any considerable 
body of air (or even vacuum) promotes the formation of a scum or film 
on the surface of the milk, and bacteria caught in this surface 
film withstand heating much longer than do those in the fluid milk. 
This has been definitely proven for B. tuberculosis by several compe- 
tent observers. 

{b) A much more nearly ideal arrangement if practicable would be 
the heating of the mUk in its final containers, i.e., the glass bottles in 
which it is to be distributed. This avoids reinfection, or contamina- 
tion during bottling, always a considerable source of danger, but it 

279 



28o The Journal of Home Economics [June 

adds much to the cost of the milk, on account of the mcreased manip- 
ulation and increased attention required, necessity for better grade 
of glass bottle, etc. Furthermore, the time required for this process is 
so great as to exclude it from use by any large company, and there are 
other objections to it from the practical standpoint. 

(2) Immediate and rapid cooling of the milk to a low temperature 
at least 16° C. (61° F.) or much better, f C. (45° F.). Without this 
precaution, the heating of the milk not only does no good but actually 
causes harm. For bacteria grow very rapidly (20 to 30 minutes is 
often the lifetime of the individual, in many forms), and especially 
at lukewarm temperatures, the degree which milk left to cool at room 
temperature maintains for two to four hours. Moreover, many unde- 
sirable bacteria will usually grow more readily in milk that has been 
heated, other things being equal, than in raw milk. This feature, it 
should always be remembered constitutes a serious objection to all 
pasteurization. 

In home pasteurization where the milk is to be used in an hour or so, 
this cooling process is of course unnecessary. Otherwise the warm milk 
bottles should be cooled at once in running water or frequently changed 
water, before being set into the ice box. 

(3) Maintenance of a low temperature during transportation, stor- 
age, and delivery of the milk, both before and after pasteurization, also 
during storage after delivery to the consumer. The temperature of 
10° C. (50° F.) is usually indicated as the maximum that should be per- 
mitted. 

(4) Care to use a pasteurized milk for purposes of infant feeding 
within twenty-four hours at most. Even though it may seem per- 
fectly sweet, this does not, under present conditions, prove that no 
harmful changes have taken place in it. This maximum of twenty- 
four hours should be reduced when possible for infant use, in cities 
where milk of various ages from various sources must be transported 
long distances both before and after pasteurization — particularly in 
summer heat, or with insufficient refrigeration facilities. 

Efecl of heat upon milk. — The boiling of milk is said by various 
authorities to cause certain chemical and physical changes, as fol- 
lows: 

(i) The various proteins and nitrogenous bodies are known to be 
changed to some extent, though authorities do not agree as to details. 
It seems however, that certain of them (lecithin and nuclein) are more 
or less decomposed, the milk albumin becomes less soluble and be- 



iQio] The Pasteurization of City Milk Supplies 281 

gins to coagulate, even at 55° to 75° C. (according to Solomin, Schloss- 
mann, Snyder, Rosenau) ; caseinogen is attacked, with the result that 
it is more slowly and imperfectly acted upon by ferments (rennin, 
pepsin, pancreatin, especially the first named); traces of hydrogen 
sulphide are formed, probably by cleavage of protein substances. 

(2) The mineral salts or inorganic matter of milk are somewhat 
affected. There is some precipitation or fixation of soluble calcium 
(and magnesium?) salts, forming (probably) the insoluble tricalcium 
phosphate (Kastle), also some calcium citrate (probably); caseinogen 
has a part of its lime salts split off (Swithinbank). Some of the organ- 
ic phosphorus (of nuclein, lecithin, etc.?) is oxidized to inorganic 
phosphates. The modem point of view, that the linkage of these 
mineral salts with the otherwise inert protein molecule is of the utmost 
importance in biological as well as in other physical and chemical 
reactions, would indicate that the above-mentioned changes may have 
great significance in estimating the nutritive value of heated milk. 

(3) The fat emulsion of normal milk is interfered with, because the 
clusters of globules are broken up and the fat more uniformly dis- 
tributed throughout the liquid, perhaps also because the viscosity of 
the milk is decreased by heating and so the fat has greater difficulty 
in rising, or because the salts are deposited on the surface of the fat 
globules. In any case, the cream fails to rise, or is much thinner than 
that on raw milk, and does not whip into a froth. 

(4) Lactose is affected; it is sometimes said to be partly caramelized; 
its specific rotatory power is changed. (Undoubtedly some caramel 
would be formed when it is allowed to scorch on the bottom or sides 
of the containing vessel.) 

(5) Carbon dioxid is expelled, and so are certain other gases and 
volatile substances. 

(6) The cooked taste develops ; whether it is due to changes in milk 
proteins, or sugar, or only to the driving off of gases and volatile sub- 
stances, is not known. 

Which of these changes is also produced by pasteurization? That 
depends upon the temperature at which pasteurization is performed 
At 80° C. (176° F.), all of them appear, only to a less degree than at 
the boiling point; between 70° and 80° C. (158 to 176° F.), most of them 
appear at least to some extent (but authorities differ); between 60° 
and 70° C. (140 ° to 158° F.), very few changes appear. Rosenau says 
that the fat globules are affected by thirty minutes at 65° C. (150° F.) ; 
and some authorities claim effects upon lact-albumin at 60° C. or 



282 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

even below, though others put this at 75° C. At 60° C, if heated for 
not more than twenty minutes, most agree that there is no appreci- 
able change in physical condition, chemical composition, or flavor. 

The importance of these changes to the bottle-fed infant, when the 
heating is such that they do occur, is variously estimated. The un- 
favorable conditions with which they have been most commonly con- 
nected are such as precede or accompany scurvy, some forms of anemia 
and rickets. It has been suggested that the oxidation of organic phos- 
phorus and calcium by heating is directly related to the lack of phos- 
phorus and Hme in the bones, which occurs in rickets, and much evi- 
dence has been adduced to show that this is the case. Recent opinion 
agrees, however, that so far as they have been made out, the causes 
of this disease are to be sought in a different quarter, bad air being 
frequently alleged as prominent among them. 

The cause of scurvy is not known. But, however much authori- 
ties disagree concerning it, there is substantial agreement that 
scurvy due to pasteurized (not boiled) milk is rare, and also that the 
dangers of a warm, dirty, stale milk ( i.e., the ordinary city supply), 
fed to the infant, more than counterbalance any slight danger of scurvy. 
This is more especially true, as infantile scurvy is easily preventable 
and easily treated, responding in a few hours to. the use of such anti- 
scorbutics as fresh milk, orange or grape juice, beef juice, etc. 

As to other conditions of malnutrition or physiological reactions due 
to the prolonged use of highly heated milk, EngHsh and American 
physicians, at least, seem often to consider that many children do not 
do well for long periods of time upon boiled milk. A common and 
well-founded notion is that boiled milk is constipating not only to 
children but also to most adults. To what extent these observations 
would apply to pasteurized milk, depends upon the nature of the pas- 
teurizing process. Some authorities consider pasteurized milk less 
easily digestible than raw milk, and others more so. Other changes 
wrought in milk by heat are as follows: 

(i) Milk contains a number of enzyms. Among these are the pro- 
teolytic (trypsins, e.g., galactase, which according to some author- 
ities plays so important a part in cheese-making), the amylolytic or 
starch-digesting; the lipolytic or fat-splitting, a lacto-kinase (a fer- 
ment which accelerates though it does not cause the digestion of lac- 
tose in the intestine), the catalases (ferments which are able to decom- 
pose hydrogen peroxide), oxidases, and peroxidases; and so on. It 
must be confessed, however, that evidence as to any considerable im- 



igio] The Pasteurization of City Milk Supplies 283 

portance of the natural milk ferments in the infant's nutrition is mostly 
wanting. As to the effects of heat upon these ferments, those found in 
cow's milk are, in general, weakened by thirty minutes at 65° C. 
(150° F.) and totally destroyed between 70° and 80° C. (158° to 176° 
F.), by a much shorter period of time. It would seem, then, that the 
most recent pasteurizing standard, viz. 20 minutes at 60° C, does not 
harm cow's milk in this respect, 

(2) Milk contains, occasionally, various bacterial products and anti- 
bodies. Animals rendered immune to diphtheria or to tetanus ex- 
crete the antitoxin in their milk. As is well-known, the milk of a sick 
cow is likely to be unwholesome; and specific toxins are supposed to 
appear in the milk when the corresponding infection is a general one. 

Of the antibodies, the only ones which could under ordinary cir- 
cumstances be of any conceivable value to the infant are those con- 
nected with the so-called germicidal power of cow's milk. It has long 
been known that there is a slight decrease (or at least an apparent one) 
in the number of bacteria in new milk, for two or three hours or some- 
times longer, though it is slight indeed compared with the enormous 
increase which takes place immediately afterwards and continues until 
hosts almost innumerable are reached. It is sometimes supposed that 
the bacteria which disappear in new milk are killed by some antagon- 
istic substance which the milk contains. It is possible, however, that, 
what the milk contains is not bactericidal substances but agglutin- 
ins, that is, some substance causing bacteria to form in small clumps 
or clusters, thereby resulting in an entire cluster being counted as one 
bacterium under ordinary counting methods, and the decrease being 
apparent and not real. In any case, this action of milk cannot as- 
sume much importance in relation to pasteurization for two reasons: 
first, it is in fresh milk often so sHght as to be practically negligible; 
and second, so variable as to be perfectly unreliable. 

The question of bacterial toxins in milk and the effect of heating as 
possibly favoring the production of these toxins, is not so easily disposed 
of. It is well known that a milk loaded with undue numbers of 
bacteria, as is the average city milk in hot weather, acts in many 
cases as an irritant to the delicate mucous membrane of the infant's 
digestive tract, whether because of the presence of the bacteria them- 
selves and their ability to break down the normal defenses of the intes- 
tinal epitheliimi and pass through it, or because of the irritating na- 
ture of their products in the milk in which they have fed and which 
they have profoimdly altered, or because of both these conditions. 



284 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Be that as it may, statistics show an enormous increase in the diarrhoeal 
death-rate during the hot season, and that the bulk of this increase is 
furnished by the " mider-one-year " deaths from the bottle-fed infants 
of the poorer quarters of the city, especially. The inferences usually 
drawn are that cow's milk in the condition in which it reaches the 
average child in hot weather, is by no means invariably satisfactory 
as a food; and that its unsatisfactory condition is often connected 
with the enormous increase in its bacterial flora which takes place at 
such times. 

Now there is no doubt that this all too common condition is due in 
part, at least, to specific infection — say to pathogenic streptococci 
(though to be sure, the relation between the pathogenic and the ordin- 
ary milk streptococci is not at all understood), or to bacteria belonging 
to or related to some one of the "intestinal" or colon-typhoid groups. 
Further, this infection may be carried by the milk, or by flies, or be- 
cause of unclean personal habits or defective sanitation. It seems, 
however, that specific infection does not always take place; often the 
trouble is due, apparently, to large numbers of "ordinary" bacteria 
or their products in the milk. Dr. Park's now classic investigation led 
him to conclude that heating the milk to slightly above 170° F. (77° C.) 
does much towards destroying not only the bacteria in milk, but also 
towards removing at least a part of their irritating and poisonous prod- 
ucts. It served to prevent intestinal troubles almost completely when 
the milk used was of good quality; but even when the most impure 
store milk was used, it usually proved effective if the milk was heated 
shortly before use, unless the original contamination amounted to many 
milUons of bacteria per cubic centimeter. With raw milk, even that 
of good quality, the majority of infants suffered more or less from 
diarrheal troubles and many of them seriously so. Only the purest 
milk, then, should be used raw, especially in summer. 

The results obtained by Dr. Park in combating the dreaded sum- 
mer gastro-enteritis of infants with the weapon of pasteurization are 
by no means isolated. Dr. Freeman and others produce statistics 
to show that the infantile death-rate of New York City was cut in two 
within the space of 14 years by the introduction of the habit of boiling 
the milk. Mr. Nathan Straus, whose charities in connection with 
the milk depots and the consultations for mothers at these stations, 
have done so much for the New York tenement district, reports simi- 
lar results elsewhere whenever his pasteurizing methods are tried, 
both in America and in Europe. Thus, in Sandhausen, near Heidel- 



iQio] The Pasteurization of City Milk Supplies 285 

berg, in 1908, the infantile death-rate dropped to less than half the 
usual average for other years, after four months' work. The infants' 
hospital at Randall's Island (New York City) had a mortality of 44.36 
per cent in 1897; in 1898 it began using the Straus pasteurized milk and 
had a mortaUty of 19.80 per cent. Dr. Hope, at Liverpool, using 
humanized sterilized milk at the infants' milk depot, secured a reduc- 
tion of 50 per cent in the mortaHty of these children as compared with 
the general mortality rate of infants in the rest of the city. Pasteur- 
ization of the city supplies in Vienna gave a decrease of 50 per cent in 
infantile mortaHty, we are told. Many workers in French and Ger- 
man cities report similar results. It must be remembered, however, 
that general sanitation goes hand-in-hand with pasteurization, in all 
of these cases, and how much credit belongs to the one and how much 
to the other, it would be hard to say. 

The contention of Fliigge and others, that pasteurization should be 
forbidden by law, since it kills off the non-spored lactic-acid forming 
bacilli and so leaves the field clear for the toxin-forming spore-bearing 
peptonizing and putrefying anaerobes, seems to be answered in part by 
the above investigation and experiences. It is doubtless true that 
upon many occasions, if a previously heated milk sample be kept long 
enough, toxin-forming bacteria may form extensively in it; that some 
of these toxins are very powerful, and that not all of them are destroyed 
by heat. Whether this would be likely ever to happen w^th the aver- 
age city milk produced under conditions approaching decency, kept 
moderately cool, and promptly used, is of course another question. 
Recent work by Colwell and Sherman, on the determination of pep- 
tones in a pasteurized milk as it ages, shows us that the high-temper- 
ature pasteurization does favor the growth of the peptonizing bacteria 
at the expense of the lactic-acid formers; but they report that where the 
lower pasteurizing temperatures are used, the lactic-acid-producing 
bacteria grow at about the same rate as do the peptone formers. Thus 
the objection, that pasteurization interferes with the natural souring 
of the milk and makes it more difficult to recognize an old or an un- 
safe milk, is losing ground so far as low-temperature pasteurization is 
concerned. 

It cannot be too strongly emphasized, however, that the nature of 
the flora in milk does vary enormously with different sanitary and other 
conditions. I have known of localities in which it seemed to be a 
common knowledge among housewives, that if a bottle of milk kept 
in the ice-box or say just outside a shaded window in winter was to be 



286 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

used late in the day or kept over until the next day after it was de- 
livered, it must have the paper cap removed to allow access of air; 
otherwise it would be "not sour, but bad — ^funny-tasting, you know." 
It would seem that from imperfect sterilization of bottles or from some 
other source, there must have been present an unusual number of 
putrefying anaerobes. Some sanitarians tell us that one of the tests 
for an average good milk, even after it has been pasteurized, is its fail- 
ure to putrefy at room temperature within 48 hours (though for this 
test they usually remove the cap and substitute therefor a sterile 
cotton plug) . It would seem, then, that raw milk kept on ice or other- 
wise cooled ought not to putrefy within twenty-four hours though kept 
closed up in ordinary bottles. 

Rosenau briefly sums up the evidence for ptomaine formation in 
milk as set forth by Fliigge, Vaughan, and others, and decides that its 
relation to the poisonous qualities of milk ib doubtful; that probably 
most of the irritating organic acids of ordinary fermentation, as well 
as the volatile acids produced by anaerobes, " when they produce acute 
symptoms, result more from fermentative processes within the gastro- 
intestinal tract, rather than from those produced in the milk before it 
is taken." It should be remembered that the opportunity for milk 
bacteria of various sorts to preserve their vitality and finally to suc- 
ceed in setting up fermentation processes within the alimentary canal 
of the infant, is comparatively great; since the very young child's gas- 
tric juice normally lacks hydrochloric acid and therefore has little dis- 
infecting power. 

Apart from the connection of the milk supplies with the infantile 
diarrhea death-rate, what is the value of pasteurization as a 
preventive measure against the dissemination of tuberculosis, typhoid 
fever, scarlet fever, diphtheria, chicken-pox, small-pox, measles, cholera, 
foot-and-mouth disease, anthrax, or any other diseases which may 
possibly be spread by means of dairy products? 

There has been a good deal of discussion as to whether B. tubercu- 
losis is killed at pasteurizing temperatures, it being especially resistant 
under certain conditions, e.g., in the scum which readily forms over 
the exposed surface of heated milk; or in case it be found in collections 
of mucus or pus — a condition which should be readily detected with 
the eye. Theobald Smith, Rosenau, Russell and Hastings, and a 
number of other workers whose decisions carry the weight of authority, 
have announced that 20 minutes at 60° C. (140° F.) is amply sufficient 
to insure the death of this refractory organism, even so few as ten 



igio] The Pasteurization of City Milk Supplies 287 

minutes being ordinarily enough, provided milk which contains mucus 
or pus be rejected (as it most certainly should be), and provided pre- 
cautions are taken against scum formation. 

The thermal death-points of the other pathogenic organisms men- 
tioned above, so far as we know them, occur at lower temperatures. 
Rosenau reports that B. typhosus is kiUed by two minutes at 60°; that 
diphtheria often disappears in the first minute at 55°; that B. dysen- 
teriae may sometimes withstand five minutes at 60,° but never ten 
minutes. Pasteurization, then, would be an eflScient guard against 
the spreading of their infection through the milk supply, provided 
an adequate and rigid system of inspection can assure us that there is 
no danger of infection subsequent to pasteurization through per- 
sons who handle the milk. 

But what is the danger that these diseases would be disseminated in 
any event, by the milk supply? So far as tuberculosis is concerned, it 
must be confessed that it is mostly hypothetical. Somewhere from 2 
to 20 per cent of our milk does contain tuberculosis germs — estimates 
vary greatly; but are they dangerous to man ? The bovine tuberculo- 
sis germ differs somewhat from the human, being usually much lower 
in virulence; yet human tuberculosis has in some instances been con- 
tracted from bovine sources. Estimates as to its frequency vary from 
that of von Behring, who maintains that practically all cases of tuber- 
culosis have been incipient since infancy, when the germs were taken 
into the system with cow's milk, to that of Koch, who beUeves that 
eleven-twelfths of all tuberculosis and probably all pulmonary tuber- 
culosis, is of human origin. 

When it comes to typhoid fever, we are more sure of our ground. 
Many of the violent epidemics due to milk have been recognized and 
described. Whipple estimates that in large cities, about 25 per cent of 
all typhoid cases have been infected through milk and it becomes 
increasingly clear to us that when the water suppHes are made safe, 
milk is the most important remaining source of infection. 

As for scarlet fever and diphtheria, the danger of their more than 
occasional transmission through milk is now well understood. Many 
sanitarians consider that they are probably more largely disseminated 
through milk than is tuberculosis. 

To smnmarize : Most of the objections to pasteurization are 
founded either upon certain undesirable results which obtain when 
the milk is heated for some minutes to above 70° C, or else upon 
the supposition that pasteurization will be made to take the place of 



288 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

attention to cleanliness and sanitation. Presumably the reason why 
health authorities in a number of the largest cities favor scientific 
pasteurization is that the work of raising standards of cleanliness and 
sanitation among so great a number of far-distant milk-producers 
proceeds so slowly and is so far from complete, that they deem some 
additional safeguard necessary for that part of the milk-supply which 
falls below a reasonable minimum standard. Presumably, then, this 
proposal for pasteurization does not mean a relaxation of sanitary in- 
spection in any quarter. Neither does it mean that no supply except 
pasteurized milk will be available; though the price of a clean safe raw 
milk, in a large city, must for some time to come be much higher than 
are the present city prices, just as we find "strictly fresh eggs," 
"fresh eggs," and "eggs," selhng at different prices. 

It is true that there are a few smaller cities v/hich have already been 
able to attain some measure of success in reforming the dairy business ; 
conspicuous among these are Copenhagen, Denmark, the world's 
model in this respect; and in this country, Rochester, N. Y., where Dr. 
Goler's work reduced the infant mortality one-third within ten years — 
and that without the use of any heating process whatever. But in a 
city where much of the daily supply must be brought a distance of from 
ICO to 400 miles, conditions are much more difficult, and extensive 
reform naturally proceeds more slowly. 

The great dangers of pasteurization are: (i) That improper methods 
of pasteurization may be employed; (2) that improperly handled milk 
may be pasteurized, and (3) that milk after pasteurization may be 
improperly handled. But the attainment of a reasonable degree of 
safety in these respects, may be for some time to come a much simpler 
matter than the attainment of the higher standard which should be 
required to make a raw milk safe enough for infant feeding. 



REMARKS ON FOOD STANDARDS IN THE PUBLIC 
KITCHEN AND THE HOME KITCHEN.' 

Bertha Stevenson. 

However much we may criticise the housekeeper, we must admit 
that she still produces the very best food, includmg the most difficult 
of all things on the bill of fare— bread. Of course everybody here knows 
that good bread cannot be made unless it is mixed thoroughly. Each 
particle of flour should be surrounded by moisture so that, when the 
dough goes into the oven under heat, hydration can take place. In 
the best bread there is very little unhydrated flour; whereas all of 
the bread made in public bakeries in this country that I have ever 
seen examined in the laboratory shows big streaks of raw flour. 

There was on the market a few years ago a little machine which was 
built on the right principles and which was a help in bread making. The 
wet ingredients were put in the bottom, and the dry ingredients in the 
top; and the dry ingredients were sifted down very slowly, while the 
wet ingredients were stirred very fast, and thus a good mixture was 
obtained. But that machine I think is not adapted to use in bakeries. 
As far as I know, the kind that is used in every bakery today is the 
big, old-fashioned sort of cylinder with square ends, in which a great 
arms turns, and mashes and jams everything together; and when the 
dough comes out it is Hke rubber. Some of the bakers will show the 
dough to you with great pride and say, "Just see how it stretches!" 
As a result of better mixing home made bread is better although it is 
often not as well baked. 

When we compare her food in general with that of thepubhc kitchen, 
the housekeeper deserves every bit of glory she has. Why do you think 
it is that we do not feel easy about eating hash in a pubhc lunch room? 
We can eat it with our eyes shut at home. A young woman said to 
me recently, "You know, when I first went to work in a restaurant, I 
had no idea what restaurant habits were." She continued, "Here are 
two things that opened my eyes: The first week, one morning, a large 

»Read at the Boston meeting of the Home Economics Association, January, 1910 

289 



290 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

number of salmon, frozen stiff, came in to be used for lunch. The pro- 
fessional cook whacked them all into the ovens without dressing them. 
I said ' Why do you do that?' ' Oh,' she repHed, ' they will be so much 
easier to dress when they come out!' My next lesson was from some 
forgotten lamb chops. These chops had got pushed back in the refri- 
gerator and overlooked for about two weeks. When they were discov- 
ered they were boiled in soda and made into braised lamb chops, with 
spiced tomato sauce. And, said my friend, They were delicious, one 
could not detect anything wrong with them." A professional cook is 
usually incurable. It is better to advertise for women to train as 
cooks Never advertise for a cook. 

It is so easy to doctor food in a thousand ways. Eggs, for instance, 
that are spoiled give up their offensive odor on being frozen. An inves- 
tigation of public kitchen methods would make it clear that all of the 
good accompHshed by the pure food laws is insignificant compared with 
what could be accompUshed for better health in our cities if the dirty 
restaurants could be cleaned up. 

There are a good many difficulties in the way of clean restaurants. 
The business buildings available for restaurants offer far from ideal 
conditions when the kitchen is viewed as a laboratory. Moreover, to 
place a restaurant in convenient reach of the many means enormous 
rents and a close margin for improvements. Outside of the endowed 
institutions and hospitals, a model kitchen is as much out of reach as 
is a half-acre playground for each family in the tenements. Still, if 
there is knowledge enough and effort enough, conditions can be made 
sanitary. This is no more than is done in surgery; for example, if an 
operation is to be performed, one can get sanitary conditions already 
provided in a hospital; but, if it is not convenient, or if for any reason 
the operation must be performed at home, the home conditions, the 
home room, can be made sanitary. So it is with respect to the kitchen, 
as we find it; it can be made sanitary and kept so. 

Then, too, the pubUc has not waked up yet to the necessity for sup- 
porting proper standards in foods. Every year we come across a diffi- 
culty when strawberries appear. They start from across the continent ; 
and, in the early season, by the time they get here, at least half of them 
are soured and crushed and are not in proper condition for this market. 
Then the few strawberries that have ripened nearer by are at a pre- 
mium, and only people very well-off can afford to buy them. But the 
minute strawberries appear, a demand is made for strawberry short 
cake. And every year some of us who are in the lunch-room business 



igio] Standards in Public and Home Kitchens 291 

go through with this same thing. We explain, when we are asked to 
have strawberry shortcake, that strawberries are too expensive, and 
that we have to wait until the near-by strawberries are more plentiful. 
And then the reply always is, "Well, So-and-So has strawberry short- 
cake now. If you can't play the game, what is the matter?" Well, 
theway So-and-So has strawberry short-cake when good strawberries 
are really not in the market is this: There are a great many second- 
rate, half soured, crushed strawberries, and a very few good ones. So 
it is very easy to buy five crates of crushed one that are not fit to eat, 
and crush them some more, and sweeten them and make a strawberry 
short-cake, and buy one crate that is good, and put two or three good 
berries on the top of each short-cake. When we tell this to our patrons, 
we always get the reply, "We don't know anything about that." 
And we always reply, "But you have got to know about it." 

Again the workers in the restaurants, other than the cooks, present 
one of the difficulties in trying to serve really clean food. Many res- 
taurants workers think it is fussy not to pick up a piece of bread that 
falls on the floor and put it back on the table — I mean downstairs; 
of course, they don't do that before the customers. But these same 
people, when they really get interested in the work and are trying to 
do it well through and through, begin to think and then they say, "It 
is not square to pick up a piece of bread off the floor." I think it is 
encouraging, when a girl who starts out thinking it is fussy, decides 
it is not "square" to do behind a customer's back what she would 
not do before his face. 

A strong effort is being made by those who really regard the work in 
a professional light, to meet and overcome these difficulties and the 
many others that we have not time even to name here. As for the 
workers' time, patience and training often bring indifferent workers 
to a point of enthusiasm and pride in a daily joint effort to prepare and 
serve the very purest and cleanest food, the kind that the best home 
kitchen would be proud of; food that not only tastes good and looks 
good, but that is good. And knowledge and dihgence, as I have said, 
will secure sanitary conditions. 

When it comes to awakening the public to a greater demand for, 
and a better support of, proper food standards, nothing is more effective 
and helpful than this Association. Each member here can and does 
do a great deal to bring people to reaUze the benefit or harm that can 
be wrought by public kitchens. 



THE ELIMINATION OF WASTE IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 

Lucy M. Griscom, 

Wellesley College. 

Conservation of our resources should be understood to apply to 
housekeeping, as well as to mines and forests. We need to be inter- 
ested in civic and national affairs, for only when these are rightly con- 
ducted can homes be ideal; unless street cleaning is properly done, 
house cleaning cannot be very effective. If the vacuum cleaner is 
allowed to dump the dirt cleaned from the rugs of a house on the street 
in front of the house, the dirt will find its way back to the same rugs 
from which it had just been so scientifically extracted. An English 
writer calls attention to the fact that, after arousing great sympathy 
for the chimney sweeps and abolishing their employment, all London- 
ers are now in very nearly their condition of griminess and lack of .un- 
shine! Here, also, in many of our cities, vast amounts of money and 
energy must be spent in the houses in attempts to fight the deposits 
of soot from without. 

In spite of the use of conspicuous waste as a means of showing supe- 
riority, there is in most persons an inherent aversion to waste of what 
to them seems valuable. Many persons are, from ignorance, unable 
to realize the value of commodities which they are accustomed to 
seeing in quantity, and forget how valuable a little of it might b-- 
to some less fortunate person. Such persons are careless at large, in the 
destruction of forests, and the pollution of rivers; and, at home, in 
wasting water, and taking on their plates more food than they eat. 
All these short-sighted persons must be taught. Let us see that 
economy at home and abroad are closely related, and let women learn 
to apply the laws of economics to the household. The housekeeper 
should also learn a lesson from modern manufacturers who make 
fortunes in by-products, formerly thrown on the dump heap. She 
should carefully balance her raw materials and finished products in 
search of waste, for in a properly run household all space, time, and 
energy should be so utilized that some desirable end is thereby accom- 
plished — health, morals, or intellectual and spiritual development. 

292 



19 lo] Elimination of Household Waste 293 

The question of waste of time in a household is the most discourag- 
ing, as it is due to the long years in which the housekeeper's time has 
been considered as the least valuable in the world. Some irregularity 
is unavoidable, but every woman should endeavor to run her affairs 
as punctually as possible, and eventually compel her family to realize 
the injustice of tardiness. One of the greatest aids to time saving is 
routine, but it must be so arranged as to give elasticity, and allow for 
emergencies. One does not want such a routine as that of the little 
German girl who would take cold from taking a bath on Wednesday 
rather than on Saturday, or to have a whole week spoiled by a rainy 
Monday. If, however, we were compelled to decide afresh each day 
just what work, sweeping, washing, or baking, we should do that day 
we should be severely handicapped. Another advantage of routine 
is, that in looking at work by the week-full, rather than by the hour 
or day-full, it is easier to distinguish between necessaries, and non- 
necessaries— and when that distinction is made there comes a great 
saving of nervous energy. In fact, it is not only that non-necessaries 
are needing elimination, but often also that impossibihties are bemg 
attempted. One woman cannot, without too great nervous wear, 
be a pleasant companion, a fancy cook, a nurse, an expert musician 
and an authority on current events. A modern housekeeper must look 
over her field, decide first what are the possibilities for herself, and sec- 
ond, which of these are worth while, aad then lay the emphasis in the 
right place. She must realize that it may be best for her next door 
neighbor to emphasize a different thing and they will be happier when 
they learn to supplement each other instead of copying. Such a 
woman will then be ready to realize that she will waste her employee's 
nervous energy, as well as time, if she does not properly arrange the 
work. 

Professor Seager gives, among his economic laws, that of adaptation 
to taste. Unless this is reahzed in the household, we might as well 
Uve in hotels or in barracks. It is frequently dealt with, so far as 
concerns the family, but rarely, at least in point, where it concerns the 
help, but with that in view, a woman does not seem unreasonable who 
changes her service place several times in trying to find one where she 
can work without undue friction, for many housekeepers never seem 
to realize that their employees have tastes which should be gratified. 
Even a greenhorn prefers to work in the order that she herself chooses, 
rather than in that imposed on her by her mistress and in many cases 
her plan will be really as good a one. On a day when all the family 



294 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

is to be from home, consider the pleasure to the cook in her choosing 
just what meat and vegetables she shall have for her own meals — not 
merely a collection of left-overs. It may be pork and cabbage she 
will choose, but it will be a token of her individuality. 

Another waste of nervous energy for household helpers comes from 
a very hazy conception of what is expected of them — or, more fre- 
quently, and still more unfortunately, a very clear conception that they 
are to work all day, no matter how hard. According to The Survey 
there is now a law in Holland (since February, 1909) requiring a con- 
tract signed by both parties in all cases of employment, stating wages, 
conditions, and amount of work. 

Physical energy — mere human power to do work which can be 
measured in feet, pounds, and time — is, on the whole, more easily 
comprehended than nervous energy. Proper technical training de- 
velops hand and mind together, and though I believe every woman's 
college should have a department of household economies, still every 
home should be a school of practice. How much too frequently the 
home is merely a parade ground in the front part and a sweat shop in the 
rear where all work superficially to outshine the neighbors ! Some one 
has lately expressed a wish for a "fashion of economy." There are 
faint beginnings of it apparent. A wealthy woman of much education, 
in giving a dinner at a very luxurious hotel, surprised some of her guests 
by the small number and simplicity of her courses. It seemed quite 
like a modest home dinner, well cooked and satisfying, but without 
superfluities. In conversation afterwards, she explained that she 
felt that if twenty people there had on their plates twice what they 
could eat, twenty other people were starving because of her careless- 
ness. This can be taught to even the ordinary maid of aU work. A 
careful, conscientious housekeeper of my acquaintance was explain- 
ing to a temporary maid, a friend of the regular incumbent, the work 
required. The newcomer said with real admiration, "Yes'm, we all 
know that whoever comes here can have all they need, but you won't 
stand us wasting things." 

Women need more and more to learn to buy and care for proper 
appliances. Everyone who has kept house knows either the joy of 
good tools, or the woe of poor ones. The reason for the latter lies 
sometimes in stupidity, sometimes in stinginess, often in false economy, 
very often, alas, in necessity — but the world will have to come to an 
appreciation of the fact that if housekeepers are to keep step with 
modern progress, they must have improved tools. 



19 lo] Elimination of Household Waste 



295 



On the other hand, women are apt to treasure too many useless 
things. There is a good lesson in a rather charmmg story— The 
Resurrection of Miss Cynthia, by Florence Morse Kingsley. The hero- 
ine was left alone with many heirlooms and poor health . She was told 
by a specialist that she had but one year more to live. She decided 
she would enjoy that one without wasting care on the accumulated 
debris of her ancestors, so she had in her back yard a bon-fire of really 
worn-out things, and in the front a pile of half- worn ones. The latter 
soon disappeared as the result of an advertisement that the neigh- 
bors might help themselves from it. Then, free from care, she roamed 
the fields and recovered her health. Professor Patton says that one 
stage in individual, aesthetic development finds expression in mere 
ownership, and that people should be allowed to satisfy that instinct 
at some time. Though this should give us sympathy with those just 
becoming able to satisfy it, we need not remain indefinitely in that 
stage. Rummage sales are a good antidote when the stuff has been 
bought but preventive measures are better in the form prescribed by 
Mrs. Richards, " Before the purchase is made, the labor involved in 
caring for it should be considered." 

Another of Professor Seager's laws is that of "least social cost." 
It is inconsistent to belong to the Consumers' League, or to demand 
union-made stoves, and at the same time require at home services and 
refinements that can be attained only by soul-ldlling work. We want 
tasteful serving of food, but there are many people who only need to 
count the number of dishes per person required to serve their break- 
fast and then either cut down their demands, or hire more help. Wells, 
in New Worlds for Old, paints a pleasant picture of the future and one 
phase is the new feelmg of responsibihty about making work. Why 
should not each person put his bed to air, and clean the tub after his 
bath ; in short, leave things as he found them ? Only a housekeeper can 
really appreciate the saving of labor which would result. 

As with the present industrial conditions it is unwise for the aver- 
age family to invest much capital in a house from which they may at 
any tune be called by a change of work on the part of the bread-winner, 
it seems inevitable that most families should five in rented houses. 
The chief drawbacks to this are, first, that tenants are apt to be careless 
with rented property; second, that owners, on that account, put in 
cheaper material; and third, that this finally reacts on the tenant, who 
finds it harder and harder to find a well-built, small house or to get 
proper repairs made. Then, even good tenants are apt to become care- 



296 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

less, and the children grow up without the love and care for the home 
which they should have. 

The general subject of food, the necessary amount and composi- 
tion per person per day, the proper preparation and the general waste 
of it in America are so much written about that there should be Httle 
left to say. Unfortunately one sees in print so much nonsense on 
the subject that it would be wise for the novice to ignore most magazine 
and newspaper articles and to pin her faith to United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture publications and to books by real authorities. 
One phase of the subject which few writers touch upon, but which 
causes much trouble and expense in homes and institutions, is the inter- 
pretation of "one man's meat is another man's poison," as meaning 
that children should not be forced to eat anything they do not fancy. 
Granting that there are exceptional cases of idiosyncracy which must 
be allowed for, it is evident from observation that children can be 
taught to eat what is placed before them and finish the amounts of 
food they have taken. If one may judge from old families which have 
produced well-known citizens in each generation whose members con- 
sider a well-cleaned plate a family trait, it would seem that this train- 
ing is as good for character as for economy. It is surely extreme for 
each of five members of a family to require a different kind of breakfast 
food. 

Mere attention to percentages of nutrients or calories of energy is 
not enough to prevent waste in food, unless one is catering to out door 
laborers whose appetites make any good food welcome. It seems to 
he proved now that the digestive juices are only secreted properly 
■when the food has an attractive flavor and is "interesting." This 
accounts for the lack of satisfaction that is often felt when one has 
left a dull table even when there was more nourishing food provided 
than could be eaten. Professor Chittenden has shown that even 
dogs require variety and interest to make them digest their food — 
how much more human beings. 

Little needs to be said about waste in clotliing, though much remains 
to be done. Professor Marshall has said "Everyone who changes the 
material of her dress simply at the bid of fashion sins against the spirit 
of art, but she also probably adds to the wreck of human lives that is 
caused by the hungry pining for work." If people who wear their 
clothes while in style and then give them away could realize the lower- 
ing of artistic fcehng and general loss of self-respect caused in the poor 
by wearing grotesque, overtrimmed creations when they are sufficiently 



iQio] Elimination of Household Waste 297 

out of style to be noticeable, the said wealthy people might hesitate to 
wear such clothes even when they were in style. 

According to the law of variety, "The ideal which the economic man 
should have in mind is that of carrying each kind of consumption only 
to the point where it becomes less pleasurable than another form of 
consumption that may be enjoyed at the same expense. " Hence, to 
live reasonably a person must study his income of time and money 
as a whole and apportion it equitably among his needs; rent, food, 
clothes, culture, etc., not forgetting health and happiness. Mill 
says there are no laws other than those of human enjoyment, but as 
one looks at homes of different standards, there seem to be the greatest 
divergences in relation to the standard of happiness. Too many homes 
seem merely a tread mill with no recognition of this standard, either 
from the outside world or its representative, the man, who still too 
often considers the home as something for which he is paying and which 
must be run for his convenience. We are just now in a pecuHar trans- 
ition stage in regard to the position of women but there will be a step 
f or^'ard when more women fully exercise their instinct of workmanship 
and refuse to be merely conspicuous idlers or wastefuUy dressed lay- 
figures designed to advertise their husbands' wealth. 

Much lack of happiness for household workers comes from lack of 
recognition. Most men have hope of advancement at some time, 
but what chance of it is there for the housewife? It should be made 
up to her in praise for successful efforts. Some men go on the prin- 
ciple of never mentioning the quality' of a dish unless it be bad. Mrs. 
More in her book Wage Earners' Budgets gives as typical the woman 
whose highest praise of her husband was "He has never called me a 
liar, nor I him." This shows plainly the pitiful lack of joy in personal 
relations with sympathetic human beings. We need to remember 
this in our consideration of household service. A very competent, 
well-educated maid said, "I don't want to work in a place where there 
is no one to tell me my work is done right." 

Everyone admits the beauty of a well-ordered life, while there are 
few of us who have not lamented the jarring elements in the home hfe 
of some of the world's heroes. With higher ideals and wider knowl- 
edge, caimot the housekeepers of America set the pace in the advance 
toward well-ordered and beautiful lives for all of us? 



HYGIENE, DRESS, AND DRESS REFORM.^ 

Dr. Dudley A. Sargent. 

Like all problems in hygiene which this generation is called upon to 
solve, that of suitable clothing, especially for women, has gained in 
complexity as conditions under which we must live and work have 
become more involved. Just as city officials and scientists are work- 
ing out schemes for better public hygiene, as doctors and bacteriolo- 
gists are applying their knowledge of germ life to preventive medicine, 
so each individual should feel a personal responsibihty in appro- 
priating all this enlightenment and in scientifically regulating questions 
pertaining to personal hygiene, including dress. 

The fundamental principles governing hygienic dress — such as 
underwear, kinds and weights of materials, supports, garters, corsets, 
boots, tight sleeves, and collars, remain the same under normal though 
var3dng conditions because the same great physiological laws are in- 
volved, laws which pertain to the body as a functioning machine, an 
active Ufe force which strives to go on and do its work even when we 
maltreat the body so that it is hampered and impaired. Our motto 
ought to be "clothes are made for the body, not the body for clothes," 
and we should by the test of usefulness and hygienic value, first, and 
of ornament and adornment afterwards, apply our judgment to modes 
of costumes. And as for reform, there will never be a radical change 
in dress accepted by women which renders them ridiculous, or unsuit- 
ably accoutered for daily tasks. We must look in some other direc- 
tion than the bloomer costume or Roman togas for a solution of the 
problem. Let us not soar into impractical exhortations to the refined 
matron to discard skirts and go shopping in the Turkish woman's 
costume, or to the business girl to drape herself for a day at the type- 
writer in the becoming scarfs of the Greek maidens. We have present 
conditions to deal with, present occupations to consider, and present 
demands to supply, and to do all this we must study our subject 
according to the laws of physiology, sociology and economy. There is 

' Read at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
January, igio. 

298 



iQio] Hygiene, Dress and Dress Reform 



?99 



one idea which the physiologists are impressing strongly upon us, and 
that is the principle of the unity of the body as an organism; the prin- 
ciple of the interaction and dependence between one function and 
another. This idea is fundamentally connected with our subject at 
almost every point from which we may take up our discussion— as for 
instance, the relation of posture, and its resulting effect on internal 
organs, to types of support, as corsets and suspenders; or the effect of 
constriction of the waist or chest in impeding digesrion and circulation. 
Our body, then, is a functionmg machine which must have heat in 
order to work; and the skin, with its pores, and hairs, and various 
glands is its real dress, and the natural regulator of our bodily temper- 
ature. But under our cHmadc conditions, clothes are necessary to 
aid this funcrion, as well as to sarisfy the dictates of modesty and 
fashion. We find in many of the older books on hygiene such quo- 
tarions as this, "From the standpoint of the hygienist, then, clothing 
is intended to preserve an equable temperature about the surface of the 
body." When we remember that 80 per cent of our food is needed to 
keep up animal heat, and that 70 per cent of the loss of this heat is from 
the skin, we reaHze the necessity of suitable clothing to assist the impor- 
tant skin functions of holding in the heat in cold weather, and of giving 
it off in warm weather." These two points are the ones to consider in 
choosing proper underwear. As Dr. Black says. 

Undergarments are the ones upon which reliance should be wholly placed for the 
proper protection of the body. The warmth of the body is far more efficiently 
retained when the protecting covering is next to it. Outside clothing should be 
worn to keep penetrating winds from the surface of the body, so that ventilation 
and radiation may go on in a normal way. 

It is almost impossible to dictate in any autocratic fashion the kind of 
undergarments to wear, since individuals differ so radically in their needs 
and preferences. Still, there are laws to guide us in our choice, laws 
which we must heed to gain the greatest comfort and efficiency. 
Nature's clothing for her animals is uniform and unconstraining, vary- 
ing with geologic and cHmatic changes in temperature. And from 
nature we can cite many familiar instances to demonstrate the principle 
that it is not the weight of a garment as much as its texture, nor the 
material itself as much as the manner of wearmg it which constitutes 
its hygienic value. When pussy dozes on the doorstep in the wintry 
sunshine, he fluffs out his fine coat of fur and makes a loose but thick 
covering; when the fowls go to roost they ruffle out their feathers, and 
to the unthinking seemingly invite the chill of winter to penetrate 



300 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

their plumage. The old farm horse that jogs into town on a market 
day is as furry as a toy lamb. In nature, the colder the v/eather, the 
more loose and erect the covering of fur or hair or feathers becomes. 
This is to ensure a protection that shall hold in its meshes layers of 
air, for dry air is a poor conductor of heat, and therefore the body heat 
of the animal is better retained. This method combines the greatest 
warmth with the most ease and lightness. Each layer of fur or 
feathers forms a wall within a wall, holding warm air between them. 
The Eiderdown duck, inhabiting the cold regions, has the lightest, 
softest coat of feathers imaginable, yet what a perfect protection it 
has in the air enmeshed in those fluffy strands. 

The ideal texture for warmth, then, is a material which has a thick, 
loose, texture with fuzzy nap, such as wool; while the manner of wearing 
it, since it is to supplement the skin, is naturally next to it. But as 
already intimated, it is unwise to prescribe woolen underwear for all. 
Some skins are hypersensitive to the irritation of wool, while some 
f imction so vigorously that they do not need the aid of wool. And here 
we see the benefit of preserving the natural non-conductive quaUty of 
the skin, by keeping up its "tone" by hygienic measures such as exer- 
cise, bathing and rubbing, so that it will accustom itself to quite wide 
ranges of temperature and render unnecessary, constant changes of 
underwear with every fluctuation of the thermometer. Modern 
science has succeeded in imitating these necessary qualities of the tex- 
ture of wool in many ways. Cotton is made up with a wooly, fleecy 
nap, with plenty of air space in its loose texture. Cotton and wool are 
so combined that the side next the skin is the cotton weave, while the 
reverse is wool; or the two materials are mixed as in Merino under- 
wear, softening the irritating qualities of wool. When on the other 
hand, we consider underclothing for warm weather, and its importance 
in helping the skin regulate our temperature, and keep us in a normal 
condition, we find just the opposite qualities from those considered are 
required. Smooth, thin fabrics are most appropriate, such as linen, 
sheer cotton and silk. To sum up, then, we can say that the virtue of 
underclothing may be principally estimated by the conducting or non- 
conducting properties of the material. A Unen shirt takes warmth 
and moisture from the body and discharges them rapidly into the sur- 
rounding air, therefore it is a garment desirable for a hot summer 
day. A woolen shirt takes heat and moisture slowly from the body and 
discharges them slowly into the surrounding air, therefore it is a suitable 
garment for a cold winter day. 



igio] Hygiene, Dress, and Dress Reform 301 

From these principles each one should work out her individual 
preferences and find the type of material best suited to lier body, 
considering her age, vigor, occupation, and health. And let the cover- 
ing be as uniform over the body as possible, remembering that if one 
part is overclad and another thinly covered, a lack of equilibrium in 
the temperature renders the organism weak, liable to colds from draughts 
and sudden changes, coughs from exposure, and a whole train of evils 
from cold, wet feet due to inadequate foot wear. City pavements and 
the bettered condition of country sidewalks in winter have rendered 
heavy rubber boots and such footwear almost unnecessary. And yet 
how often women go to the other extreme and appear in mid-winter 
in low cut, thin-soled shoes, hardly more than slippers. For warmth 
and protection, overshoes lined with a wooly material are the best 
things, and can be worn over low shoes, thus giving free play to the 
ankles and ventilation to the foot. The noxious rubber boots that 
children and adults used to wear are on the wane. Of all the cold, 
uncomfortable forms of footgear those certainly are the worst. Unpli- 
able, ill-ventilated, heavy, half the time full of snow and leaking, 
what a protection for a child's feet ! Stout leather boots, with rubbers 
and gaiters, if necessary, are the hygienic modern substitute. 

The question of the best kinds of boots and shoes is almost exhaust- 
less. We all know that broken arches, flat foot, weak ankles and other 
pathological conditions require special shoes to assist the muscles and 
bones, and to correct deformities. But normal feet, even when con- 
stantly in use, standing or walking, can be so clothed that the elasticity 
of health can be retained, and corns and bunions and such insultc to 
our feet be imknown. To maintain such a normal condition shoes 
must be made on lines conforming to the shape of the foot, with a low, 
rather broad heel, at the heel, not under the instep, a sole sufficiently 
thick yet pliable, and with enough width and length to allow for expan- 
sion of the foot in standing and the action of the muscles and bones in 
walking. Who was it said, in choosing a pair of shoes, to find a size 
that fitted and then buy a size larger? This may not be neccessary, 
and in fact too loose a shoe chafes the foot, but too tight a shoe causes 
miseries, and an ill fitting or fooUshly styhsh shoe is the cause of much 
of the ungraceful walking and forced unnatural body positions assumed 
in the attempt to maintain an equilibrium. 

We can return to the thought of the unity of the body again in con- 
sidering the bettered conditions for living and the resulting changes in 
ideals of hygienic dress. Compare the facilities for bathing, to take 



302 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

but one example, that are offered in modern American homes, with the 
lack of such opportunities fifty years ago, and consider their tonic 
effect on health and influence on dressing. The crash bath towel now 
takes the place of the old red flannel shirt, and the change is for the 
better. Warm houses make heavy indoor clothing unnecessary, 
and therefore the skin is functioning better all the time, and more 
ready to respond to the stimulus of outside cold. The habit now so 
popular of sleeping out of doors, and with windows wide open to the 
dreaded night air of our grandmother's time, so thoroughly oxygenates 
the lungs and blood and internal tissues that great resistance to the 
cold is built up, and heavy, clogging clothing is dispensed with. Out 
door exercises and sports have largely freed girls and young women 
from sleeves so tight that they could not swing a golf stick, and from 
traihng skirts for daily wear. We have therefore to thank many 
phases of modern life, and especially practical lessons from physiology 
for the adaptation we can make in our dress which renders it more 
comfortable, light and serviceable. 

It is amusing and enlightening to read in books on hygiene published 
some years ago warnings and exhortations on dress reform. Who 
does not remember family portraits of little children clad in very 
low neck, short sleeved dresses — a costume seen but rarely on infants 
now, and then only on the most torrid mid-summer days. This 
fashion was much decried by hygienists, but the true physiological 
explanation of the harm done was not shown till later, when it was 
found that an infant's body radiates more heat in proportion to its 
size than does an adult's, and that because the mother could stand the 
drain on vitality of such a fashion was no reason that the child could. 
Perhaps the greater prevalence of croup in those days may be traced to 
this cruel custom. Conserving the body's warmth means greater 
health and growth to the child. Again, we come to references to 
hoop-skirts, denouncing a mode of dress that holds the warmth of the 
clothing several feet away from the body! Then there is a lurid 
dissertation on the evils of tight lacing thirty years ago, depicting the 
pale, emaciated maiden, whose form was wasting away in her stays. 
Against the woman who sweeps up the filth and dust of the streets as 
she trails through them with draggling skirts, the authors unite in their 
denunciations. 

Some of these evils have gone, some are on the wane or disguised, 
while some are still boldly displayed. But in regard to them all,those 
who urge reform do so on authority which was not to be had even a 



ipio] Hygiene, Dress and Dress Reform 303 

few years ago, the authority of scientific research, careful deductions, 
and keen knowledge of physiological laws. There is less reason than 
ever, now that this knowledge is so freely given her, for woman to 
moan that she "was born to suffering." To quote Dr. Black again, 

Nature's gifts are invariably adequate and complemental. She never makes a 
requirement for which there was not originally sufficient provision. All the insuffi- 
ciency observed is of ar/ not of nature. In the air breathed ; in the sunlight absorbed ; 
in the exercise taken; in the clothing worn, women are far more the child of vicious 
art and custom than man. Until they purge themselves of these evils, take ade- 
quate outdoor exercise, and protect their bodies with clothing more in accordance 
with the requirements of nature, their plea that they are born to greater suffering 
then men, will have only an apparent foundation of truth. 

As has been said, the economic conditions of woman's life at the 
present day are utterly unfavorable for a return to classic, medieval 
or oriental modes of costume. She must work out her dress reform in 
relation to the demands of living We have shown how some of the 
hygienic conditions are favorable to this reform, and there are still 
others of a more economic nature. Better and cheaper materials are 
constantly being manufactured; ready-made dresses, which save the 
busy woman hours over her needle, are available from reliable shops; 
boots and shoes are made on more hygienic lines, if she will but avail 
herself of these models ; the greater variety, better make and fit of corsets, 
underwaists and supports make it possible to find a garment which 
will not injure her physique, if she will but train her muscles to do their 
normal work in support and poise. Improvement in dyes in stockings 
and stuffs render poisoning from that source very uncommon, while 
the remarkable popularity of the light weight walking skirt, and the 
comfortable shirtwaist, make it a moral obligarion of every tliinking 
woman to avail herself of the best which her generation offers, and 
show forth her life in all its efficient strength. 

Dress reform, in other words, must start in intelligent understanding 
of, and in sympathetic conformity to, the present age, without sacrific- 
ing principles of good health. As in all reforms, in religion, in educa- 
tion, or in dress, some elements of the truth are always with us. We 
can never reach a perfect system, because higher demands and higher 
ideals are constantly developing as we force a wider opening in the 
crack through which we "see darkly" into the mysteries of body, mind 
and spirit. The elements are here, then, in the form of the hygienic 
and economic conditions already mentioned. It is the duty of those 
who recognize these opportunities to create a demand for them, 



304 The Journal of Hojne Economics [June 

for the human race ii a great deal like children, they do not know what 
they want until they see it. But if the right ideal is constantly held 
up for women to see, they will, slowly perhaps, begin to want it. The 
suffragettes are working on this principle, keeping before their women- 
kind ideas of equality and social progress until women shall want 
them, heart and soul. The true "woman's rights" are rights to good 
health and strength, and a release from conditions that restrict her 
bodily as well as her social development. 

There is everything to be said in favor of the fashionable "one piece 
dress" provided the undergarments, especially the corsets, if worn, 
are properly made. Such a costume gives great artistic unity to the 
figure, does away with awkward belts and untidy waistlines, and per- 
mits ease and grace of carriage through the equal distribution of the 
weight of the garment. But this fashion caricatured, or carried to 
an extreme, as it so often is, negatives the very points it ought to 
emphasize. The corset is worn to impale the legs and flatten the back, 
the waist is constricted, and the beautiful unity and strength of the 
trunk is broken. Often the bust effect is over emphasized, especially 
on slender women, and combined with the popular high heels, the whole 
effect of the balance and poise of the body is thrown out of gear. This 
is what happens to a good style in the hands of the ignorant, and it 
remains for dressmakers, tailors and department stores to see to it 
that they create a demand for the right rather than the wrong type 
of this fashion. The high-waisted fashion of last winter suffered a 
similar fate in the hands of its maltreators, its caricaturists. Instead of 
gi\dng soft, free lines down from the raised waist, tightly fitting under- 
slips were almost imiversally worn to maintain the "figure," and more 
than often the outer skirt was of the same tightness, necessitating the lonr^ 
corsets, and producing a painful "willowy-ness." The overskirt style 
now in vogue seems to be tending to swathe up the thighs. Kind 
modistes, forbear to draw the loops more tightly, lest we go mincing 
along like wound up toys. ! 

Dr. Joel E. Goldthwait, in a recent article in the Medical and 
Surgical Journal has clearly and convincingly demonstrated the relation 
between poise and bodily eflSciency, showing how the relative positions 
of the internal vital organs are maintained under the normal conditions 
of an upright posture. Such a maintenance means the well-being and 
efiSciency of the organism, while the disturbances caused by faulty atti- 
tudes due to weakness, carelessness and willful perv'ersions of fashion, 
mean sickness and loss of vitaUty. His study of two popular types of 



^9^°] Hygiene, Dress and Dress Reform 



305 



corsets is particularly significant. The old straight front model he 
conduces, was for all its faults, better than the present flat W lodel 
The former, while mcreasmg the natural inward curve of the lower back 
nevertheless preser^.ed the natural protection afforded to the peMc 

keepmg the dehcate pelvic organs in the pockets of protective mus les 
and fat designed for them. This style also produced a hyperextension 
of the upper spme to counteract the increased curve below, and this 
caused a beneficial expansion of the chest aided by the freedom of the 

^ertd tl T'i . ^l' ^"^ ^he"flatback"typetheseconditionsare 
reversed, the na ural Imnbar curve is destroyed, and the pelvis, tipped 
upward and backward, is deprived of its natural protection, the sacral 

resr^n ^ '""t ' ^"""'''''" '^' ^''^^' "^ '^' "^^^^^1 «^g^^^ tends to 
^nt P;^^^^ «^g^n^' ^a^sing painful displacements and nervous 

iZ^ T: 1 .''"''' '^' "PP"" '™ ^^^ '^' back is thrown more 
forward, to keep from faUing over backwards, and consequently the 
shoulders are romided and the chest flattened. The strain on the body 
resulting from such conditions prevents its doing its most efficient work 
_ Nature has a distmct architectural plan in building the body, and it 
IS imperative to choose such a form of corset as will not interfere ^th this 
plan and which wiU not, through ignorant and perverted tastes, make of 
you a wasp a ''trussed fowl," a ''stuffed goose," a "weasel," or any 
other kmd of an ammal. If you cannot by good health and exercise 
tram your muscles and bones to support your bodies; if on account of 
over development, sagging abdomen, and clumsy hips some restrictions 
are necessary choose those forms which wiU have a corrective tendency 
rather than those which ..iU merely increase your deformity. A phable 
waist wiU keep the figure in shape without constricting it, and wiU give 
the muscles an opportmiity to recover their tone. For we know that if 
we delegate to any form of corsets or brace the duties which should be 
done by the muscles, they degenerate and depend wholly on the support 
Dress reform! Do not let it caU up a vision of short hair, knee skirts' 
and high laced bicycle shoes; nor yet of mannish cravats, and severe 
coats and shirts. There need be no such radical changes, nor any per- 
ceptible departure from a womanly, becoming, nay, even frivolous cos- 
tume. The peripatetic waist-hne, as variable as the isotherms of the 
temperate zone, can still move up and down, but don'tletthe internal 
organs be moved along .^dth it! Keep thebodyitself right and upright 
clean and vigorous, free and strong, and reform will have been gained' 



THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS BUILDING, TEACHERS 
COLLEGE, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. 

The School of Household Arts, Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, has recently occupied its new studio and laboratory building, 
and some account of the equipment of this university technical school 
for women will be of general interest. 

The building joins the main college building on the east, and is 
i6o by 60 feet in ground area, six stories high, with 80 rooms and 
a floor area of an acre. It is devoted exclusively to the purposes of 
the School of Household Arts. The basement, which is quite above 
groimd, contains the laundry, laboratory, a large laboratory for 
practical courses in household administration, and a testing labora- 
tory and locker room. On the first floor are offices and lecture rooms, 
and the household and industrial arts reading-room, for which a 
special library of several thousand volumes is in process of forma- 
tion. The department of foods and cookery occupies the second floor, 
with three large cooking laboratories, besides an institutional cooking 
laboratory, an experimental cooking laboratory and a table service 
laboratory. The third floor is occupied by the department of 
textiles and clothing, with four large laboratories for sewing, dress- 
making and milHnery. On the fourth floor are located the depart- 
ments of household chemistry, physiological chemistry, and nutrition 
with five large laboratories. Additional science research rooms are 
on this floor and the floor above. The fifth floor contains three 
household art studios, the textile studio, the nutrition research 
rooms, and a demonstration apartment of six rooms. Above all is 
a roof garden 100 by 25 feet in area which promises to be a useful 
adjunct to the building. 

One of the more unique features of the building is the institutional 
cooking laboratory wliich forms an integral part of the equipment 
in the department of foods and cookery. This laboratory, with the 
adjoining table service room, provides equipment for practice work in 
the preparation and service of luncheons and other meals to groups, 
so that the student may receive practice in handling food in large 
quantities both as regards marketing, preparation and service. The 

306 y 



iQio] Household Arts Building, Teachers College 307 

large quantity apparatus includes units which repeat all the essen- 
tial parts of the equipment in a hotel or an institutional kitchen. 
There is a unit French range and a unit gas range, of the types used 
m hotel kitchens, and in the block with these, charcoal and gas broil- 
ers, a steam soup kettle, steam vegetable cooker, steam-table for serv- 
ice, plate warmer, urns and other equipment necessary to complete 
the installation. The table service room adjoining this large-quanity 
apparatus is perhaps the most attractive room in the building; it is 
finished in high carved oak panels decorated with the hnen fold design. 
The room can be arranged either as a family dining-room, with a 
center table, or as a cafe or lunch room accomodating forty persons. 
One problem upon which the department of foods and cookery is now 
engaged utilizes this room with a service of luncheons one day a week 
with varying prices. 

Another feature which attracts general attention is the laundry 
laboratory which possesses complete equipment both for hand and 
machine work. The hand equipment includes fixed tubs, ironing 
tables and other necessary apparatus. The power equipment includes 
a wash wheel, centrifugal extractor and mangle, all electric driven, 
and a steam drying-room, with starch kettles, work-tables and other 
modern equipment. This laboratory is fim'shed in white die flooring 
and wainscoring, and with a class busy upon snowy Hnen, forms a 
most attractive sight. This course has already attracted a large regis- 
tration in domestic laundering and a full class in the conduct of in- 
stitutional laundries. 

The registration in courses which prepare for teaching domestic 
art and domestic science, the long estabhshed divisions of Home Eco- 
nomics at Teachers College, has notably increased this year. There 
are seventy-seven candidates for the domestic art diploma and one 
hundred and forty-eight for the domestic science diploma. The newer 
departments have tiiefoUowing registration: Nurses education, seven- 
teen; household administration, fifteen; and house decoration, one. 
The domestic art and domestic science curricula were each enlarged 
during the past year, both in technical and educational courses. The 
domestic science course has been strengthened by a broader offering 
in food chemistry and dietetics, and the domestic art course by new 
courses in costume design. Both curricula now include a new and 
distinctive course in laboratory methods and practical class room 
technique. The members of the class discuss details of laboratory 
management and equipment, and in some cases are given lessons as 



3o8 Tlie Journal of Home Economics [June 

if they themselves were children. These courses furnish, therefore, 
laboratory practice in the topics discussed in the courses in educational 
method. The experiment has met with very satisfactory results. 
There are also six graduate students registered for the degree of Mas- 
ter of Arts in domestic science, and one in domestic art. The trade 
diploma offered by the domestic art department is also attracting 
women who wish to prepare for positions in trade schools. There 
are unusual opportunities for those who know the details of trade work 
and are willing to secure proper preparation for teaching technical 
subjects. 

The offering of the School of Household Arts for next year is consid- 
erably increased over that of the present year. Some fourteen new 
courses are to be given and several new diplomas which have been 
taking form during the present year, are definitely provided. These 
round out the instruction of the school as a professional school of 
university rank for women students, parallel to the professional schools 
of law, medicine and engineering for men. New curricula are provided 
in household and institutional administration, in dietetics, in house 
decoration, in nurses education, and in visiting, nursing and health 
protection (designed not only for graduate nurses, but also for college 
women with previous training in biology and chemistry, in prepara- 
tion for positions as board of health assistants and sanitary inspec- 
tors). Another departure is a two-year curriculum for high school 
graduates, leading to a diploma in applied arts, which is to include 
cultural subjects, but gives major emphasis to vocational subjects of 
a practical nature selected from the schools of household arts, indus- 
trial arts, fine arts, music and physical education. This applied arts 
diploma provides a new type of college study for the first two years 
of a four-year course. It retains the central cultural subjects of regu- 
lar college course and provides for electives in practical fields which 
will be of direct value to the young woman as regards professional 
service or later home life. It gives a well rounded training to that 
type and temperament to which the classical college course does not 
appeal, a preparation in one way complete in itself and in another 
forming a very adequate introduction to later professional prepara- 
tional for teaching, administration or public service. Another 
new curriculum is the one-year training in fundamental science 
and the household arts, including also elementary materia medica 
and principles of nursing, provided for young women who wish to 



iQio] Household Arts Building, Teachers College 309 

enter training schools for nurses, and for which credit can be obtained 
in reducing the period of training in the hospital. 

With its other activities, the School of Household Arts has offered 
this year a score and more of extension classes which have attracted 
upward of 400 part-time students, in addition to the 258 students in 
residence. Besides courses in cooking, dressmaking and the other 
usual subjects, useful classes have been formed in marketing, care of 
infants and small children, demonstrations in carving, and one suc- 
cessful housekeeper's conference has been held. 

The response from the public in New York, and from the country 
at large, indicates that the School of Household Arts at Columbia 
University will, with similar institutions elsewhere, perform a large 
service for the common good. As one enters the new building, one 
passes mural decorations which represent woman's traditional domestic 
industries — weaving, cooking, sewing, candle-dipping, and churning; 
what one meets within the door expresses the hope of the future. 



JOHN STANTON GOULD: A PIONEER STUDENT OF 
INSTITUTION DIETETICS IN AMERICA. 

C. F. Langworthy, Ph D. 

U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

John Stanton Gould, who published in 1852 the results of an ex- 
tended study of dietary and other conditions in public institutions in the 
United States, was born in 181 1, and died at his home in Hudson, 
N. Y., in August, 1874, in his sixty-fourth year. He was a member of 
the Society of Friends. In his youth he received a very thorough 
education, particularly in the physical sciences, and throughout his life 
was well known as an industrious student and a writer and lecturer 
on scientific topics. At the time of his death he was a non-resident 
professor of Agriculture at Cornell University, a position he had filled 
since 1869. He had an admirably conducted farm in Columbia 
County, N. Y., and took an active part in moyements for agricul- 
tural improvement. For many years he was a member of the State 
Agricultural Society and its president in 1866. He was a frequent 
contributor to the agricultural press and interested in politics and in 
general in public questions. As an example of his writings on agricul- 
tural topics may be mentioned his paper on forage crops prepared for 
the New York State Agricultural Society,^ which is an exhaustive 
discussion of the subject from a botanical and chemical as well as 
from an agricultural standpoint. 

Data supplied through the courtesy of Prof. Burt G. Wilder of 
Cornell University give an idea of Professor Gould's personality and 
point of view. He states that at a memorial meeting held in honor 
of the elder Agassiz the 28th of May, 1874, Professor Gould presided 
and made the principal address. The following statements which 
he made regarding Agassiz and his power of imparting scientific 
information in such a way as to prove really useful, without doubt 
express his own ideas of what is best: 

It was not merely men of science that he was ready to devote time and attention 
to. I have seen plain farmers who did not know the difference between oxygen and 

'Trans. N. Y. State Agr. Soc, 32 (1872-1876), pp. 1-90. 
310 



R>^~ 



^.^t. 




John Staxtox Gould. 



1 9 1 o] John Stanton Gould 3 1 1 

hydrogen, and who scarce knew the difference between a vegetable and a mineral, 
go to him to elucidate some point upon which they were puzzled. It was beautiful 
to see that illustrious man sit down by the side of these simple men, and teach them 
just what they wanted to know in the plainest and simplest language that could be 
imagined. He would select such happy phrases, with such adaptation to the intel- 
lectual and scientific wants of the person he was addressing as to exactly convey his 
idea. 

Prison reform was a subject in which Professor Gould was very 
much interested and for many years he was one of the directors and 
executive officers of the New York Prison Associarion. 

In 1850 the Board of Commissioners of Immigration reached the 
conclusion that additional information was needed if they were to 
meet intelhgently the great demands which were being made for assist- 
ing the immigrants who were coming in large numbers to the United 
States and who needed, at least, temporary housing and shelter, par- 
ticularly for purposes of quarantine. They decided, therefore, ' 'to 
procure a suitable agent to \dsit the best institutions in our country, 
who should study the system of management pursued in each, and 
also seek information in relation to the cheapest and most nutritious 
kinds of diet, with the most economical processes for their prepara- 
tion." 

Knowing that Professor Gould's attention had been turned to these 
subjects for many years, the commissioners invited him to collect this 
information but he was unable to do so at the time and as no other 
suitable person was available, the project was abandoned. However, 
the next year when under the joint auspices of the board of commis- 
sioners of immigration and the board of governors in the New York 
Almshouse department it was revived and his services again sought 
he consented to undertake the work. That he was well qualified for 
the task entrusted to him, the report which he submitted to the com- 
missioners bears witness. It bears the titie : A Report of Food and Diet, 
with Observations on the Dietetical Regimen, Suited for Almshouses, 
Prisons, and Hospitals; Also on Heating, Ventilation, etc., with Prac- 
tical Recommendations, and was pubUshed in New York in 1852 by 
joint resolution of the two boards. 

As a necessary part of hi.= investigation Professor Gould made an 
extended study of the writings of Liebig, Megandie, and other writers 
on food physiology, and related questions, as well as of work on insti- 
tution management. His summary of physiology as related to food 
matters and general data regarding nutrition problems is of interest 
as it undoubtedly gives an idea of the views which were held at the time. 



312 The Journal of Home Ecomonics [June 

The contributions of men of science to the solution of alimentary 
questions, he writes, may be summed up as follows : 

The body is continually wasting its substance. Food is necessary to repair this 
waste. Food is also necessary to support respiration, and to sustain animal heat. 
The food must be sufficient in quantity and quality to repair the waste of the organs 
and tissues, and to sustain animal heat. 

The higher the external temperature is maintained, the less food will be required 
within certain limits. 

All the organs and tissues are elaborated from the blood. Therefore our food 
must contain all the elementary principles of the blood. The chief organic element 
of the blood is nitrogen. The chief supporter of the heat is carbon. 

The wasted organic elements are evacuated in the feces, the urine and the sweat; 
the sum of the nitrogenized compounds contained in these shows the sum of the 
same compounds which must be received in the food. 

Since oxygen and carbon unite in uniform proportions to form carbonic acid, the 
amount of oxygen absorbed into the system is a measure of the quantity of carbon- 
aceous materials which must be received in the iood. 

The objects of the investigation which he conducted in almshouses 
and other public institutions, as stated by him, were to determine: 

(i) What is the least amount, and what is the cheapest kind of food by which a 
prisoner or pauper can be supported so as to preserve his health and strength. 

(2) By what process of cookery can the nutriment in any given kind of food be 
most thoroughly extracted. 

(3) To ascertain what collateral circumstances influence either favorably or 
unfavorably the digestion and assimilation of food. 

(4) To ascertain the relative values of all the usual varieties of aliments, with 
view to the establishment of a scale of dietetic equivalents. For example, if a given 
number of ounces of beef will support a man in his full vigor for twenty-four hours, 
how many ounces of mutton, pork or potatoes will support him in equal vigor for 
the same time, or how much of rice, peas or beans will be equal to a pound of pota- 
toes in health and strength-giving-properties. 

(s) The most effectual means of preventing peculation and waste of food in 
large institutions. 

(6) To ascertain the influence of the various modes of warming and ventilating 
and the effect of different trades and occupations on the health and longevity of 
prisoners and paupers. 

(7) To ascertain the most profitable means of employing paupers and prisoners 
consistently with their health and well-being. 

(8) To learn any other economic or hygienic improvement in the various insti- 
tutions of the country which might be profitably applied to the institutions under 
your care. 

To sum up the whole matter, it was my intention to learn how prisoners and 
paupers could be supported, with the least burden to the community, and with 
the greatest benefit to themselves. 



igio] John Stanton Gould 313 

In carrying out his investigation, Professor Gould apparently visited 
all of the following institutions and perhaps several others: Emigrant 
Refuge, Ward's Island, N. Y.; Nurseries, Randall's Island, N. Y.: 
New York Almshouse; Penitentiary, Blackwell's Island; Philadel- 
phia Almshouse; Moyamensing Prison, Philadelphia; Eastern Peni- 
tentiary, Philadelphia; Philadelphia House of Refuge; Maryland Peni- 
tentiary; Baltimore Jail; Baltimore Almshouse; Washington Jail; 
Penitentiary of the District of Columbia; Washington Asylum for 
the Poor; Boston Lunatic Asylum; Boston House of Correction; Bos- 
ton Almshouse; Massachusetts State Prison; House of Industry, 
Boston; Suffolk County (Massachusetts) Jail; Rhode Island State 
Prison; and the Providence Almshouse. Data were also summarized 
regarding U. S. Army and Navy rations and information quoted at 
length from the extended study made in Great Britain of the Penton- 
ville prisoners, which was carried on some years before Professor 
Gould's own investigation was undertaken. In the American alms- 
houses and other public institutions studied, information was collected 
regarding the kinds and amount of food served, the bills of fare, the 
way in which the foods were prepared, and other related matters, 
and the data thus gathered are discussed at length. 

According to Professor Gould's summary, the cost of provisions per 
week ranged in the different institutions which he visited from 28 
cents per person in New York State Prison to $2.07 in the Boston 
House of Correction, and the total weekly expenses per person from 
70.2 cents in the New York Almshouse to $2.98 in the Washington 
Penitentiary. As might be ex-pected the the materials served varied 
greatly in the different institutions but in most cases the breakfasts 
and suppers were very simple and the dinners more generous. 

Professor Gould concludes that the New York institutions compared 
favorably with those which he visited in other cities and towns and 
he states that therefore it was not possible for him to suggest many 
improvements. He states further that the New York institutions were 
characterized by economy, cleanliness, comfort, and good order, and 
that the suggestions which he made, on the basis of his extended study 
of the subject, had to do more with matters of detail than with gen- 
eral recommendations. 

It is interesting to quote the weekly bill of fare which he recom- 
mended for the Ward's Island Emigrant Refuge as it not only shows 
what he on the basis of his investigations, considered desirable, but 



314 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

also gives an idea of food customs of the period as they were reflected 
in dietaries in public institutions. 

Breakfast — Half pound Graham bread, one herring and rye coffee. 

Supper — Four times a week, mush and molasses (five ounces of indian meal 
and half gill of molasses; three times a week rice and molasses (four ounces of 
rice and half gill of molasses). 

Dinner — Sunday, rice hash (three ounces of meat and four ounces of rice to each 
person). Monday, baked pork and beans, five ounces pork, and five ounces 
beans to each person. Tuesday, six ounces corned beef, eight ounces of potatoes, 
twelve ounces corn bread. Wednesday [Thursday and Saturday], six oimces fresh 
beef made into soup, twelve ounces of corn bread, and eight ounces beets, carrots, 
or turnips. Friday, four ounces salt fish, twelve ounces potatoes, and twelve ounces 
corn bread. 

Professor Gould compiled data published by Liebig, Prout and 
Pereira, regarding the composition of foods, and, in accordance with 
the custom of investigators at this time, on the basis of such data he 
calculated the amount of nitrogen and carbon furnished by the die- 
taries which he studied. According to his results, the weekly bills of 
fare in the different institutions supplied per person per day from 9.23 
ounces nitrogen in the case of the Boston Almshouse to 22.26 ounces in 
the case of the Blackwell's Island Penitentiary, and 58.58 ounces 
carbon in the case of the Washington, D. C, Almshouse to 124.16 
ounces in the case of the Massachusetts State Prison. 

On comparing of these elements [nitrogen and carbon as he calculated that they 
were supplied by the different diets], it will be seen that there is a tolerable approxi- 
mation to uniformity among the almshouses, and among the prisons, and a wide 
difference between the almshouses and the prisons, the diet in the latter being much 
fuller than in the former. 

It is of course an easy matter to compute from Professor Gould's 
recorded estimates regarding the nitrogen content the amount of 
protein which the dietaries supplied. Unfortunately, it is not possible 
to compute the fat and carbohydrates from the values given for the 
carbon content. However, in some cases it would be possible from the 
recorded data regarding kinds and quantities of food served in the 
pubhc institutions to compute in the terms commonly used at present 
time the nutritive value of the rations supplied should this seem desir- 
able for comparison with later work. 

The characteristics of potatoes, rice, wheat flour, corn meal, and 
other staple foods which were used in the different institutions are 
discussed in the report as well as the proportions in which different 



iQio] John Stanton Gould 315 

foods might be used to replace each other in the diet. This was one 
of the subjects on which Professor Gould regretted that he could not 
secure more adequate and accurate data. As an example of the prac- 
tice in institutions regarding the substitution of one food for another 
the following data which were obtained from the warden of the Eastern 
Penitentiary in Philadelphia are of interest: 

The beans, rice and hominy, etc., are served alternately, and have been resorted 
to as a substitute for potatoes during the late and present high price of that article. 
When abundant, or not over 50 cents per bushel, we serve them nearly every day 
at dinner, varying by an occasional mess of beets, parsnips, turnips etc. We do not 
use indian meal in any other form than hominy, and that once a week. 

The importance of good methods of cookery was recognized as well 
as the need for instruction in such matters. 

For the New York Institutions Professor Gould makes the 
following recommendations : 

Four or five classes of ten each, should be selected for experiment on the effect of 
various diets and modes of cookery. I recommend that the object of the first set 
of experiments should be, to ascertain how far the tables of dietetic equivalents 
founded on the relative amounts of nitrogen and carbon in each article of food, 
as determined by chemical analysis, can be relied on as a guide in practice. 

He also devoted a great deal of attention to the study of methods 
of cookery in the different institutions which he visited and from 
Doctor Bell of the McLean Lunatic Asylum at Boston secured inter- 
esting data regarding an experimental study of the yield of bread from 
different brands of flour. In his report Professor Gould discusses 
bread making at length and gives full directions for mixing, kneading, 
and baking. 

It is invariably true, [he writesl that the excellence of bread will be in the exact 
rates of the weight obtained from a given quantity of flour. The excellence and the 
nutritive properties of flour depend very much on the amount of gluten it contains; 
and it is found, on analysis, that different kinds of wheat vary greatly in the amount 
of this substance contained in them. 

From what has been said, it appears that the conditions on which the mak- 
ing of good bread depends, are as follows: 

First, Flour rich in gluten and sugar; second, lively yeast; third, the temperature 
of the sponge should be kept from 68° to 77° F.; (fermentation will not go on below 
60° and a temperature higher than 120° F. arrests it); fourth, thorough kneading, 
care being taken not to break the dough, since that permits the escape of the gas; 
fifth, to check the fermentation by baking before the development of acetic or lactic 
acids commences; [and], sLxth, if these acids are accidentally formed before baking, 
to neutralize them with soda or some equivalent alkali. 



3i6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

In view of the great interest which had been aroused a few years 
before by Dr. Sylvester Graham regarding coarse breads, it is not sur- 
prising to find that Professor Gould believed that they were especially 
worth the attention of the managers of pubHc institutions. He also 
directs attention to the value of corn bread and to bread made from 
rye flour and corn meal. 

As regards economy with respect to bread, it was his general conclu- 
sion that it was cheaper to bake bread in an institution than to pur- 
chase it ready baked. 

In connection with his work Professor Gould endeavored to 
collect data regarding the gains and losses in weight of inmates of pub- 
lic institutions, as he reahzed that this was a matter of importance in 
judging of the adequacy of the diet. In only a few cases, however, 
was he successful as such records were not generally kept. 

Professor Gould reahzed the important relation between the kind 
and amount of food and the amount of physical work performed. This 
fact may be gathered from his recormnendations regarding the rations 
in New York public institutions. He says in this connection: "For 
the almshouse at Blackwell's Island, I recommend for non-working 
paupers, the same bill of fare as already laid down for Ward's Island. 
For working men, an addition of 33 per cent on all articles except 
bread for dinner." 

He pointed out the dangers of resorting to poor and inadequate 
diet as a primitive measure and in this connection cites data included 
in an early report on prisons. 

"We are told [he writes] that in 1S22, the directors of the Millbank 
Prison, contairung eight hundred prisoners, in compliance with a popu- 
lar demand for severe punishments, reduced their diet to eight ounce"^ 
of bread per diem, and a soup made in the proportion of one ox head 
to every hundred male prisoners, and the same to one hundred and 
twenty females. This amount of food, for one week, gives 20.41 ounces 
of carbon and 3.24 of nitrogen." 

"A general decay of health was apparent, but the scurvy did not ap- 
pear till January, 1843. The cases of disease increased rapidly, and 
on the 28th of February, 118 were sick, and on the loth of April, more 
than 400." 

Professor Gould's appreciation of the importance of a proper 
relation between nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous foods is shown by 
his commentary on the above, for he states that he had no doubt that 
these prisoners "might have kept in tolerable health, even with this 



iQio] J okn Stanton Gould 317 

small supply of nitrogen, had the supply of carbonaceous food been 
increased sufficiently to supply the waste from respiration." 

Professor Gould was a believer in system in public institutions, as is 
evidenced by his recommendation for ''the enactment of code of a regu- 
lations for each institution, to be printed and placed in the hands of 
each person employed, in which the duties and responsibilities of each 
officer should be distinctly laid down, and specific directions given for 
their conduct in various emergencies." 

He also advised "that a book should be kept at each institution, 
in which the following facts should be registered in parallel columns: 
First, name of pauper or prisoner; econd age; third, height; fourth, 
weight on admission; fifth, occupation before entrance; sixth, occu- 
pation after entrance: seventh, capacity of the chest; eighth, weight 
on the first day of every succeeding month." 

The importance of sanitary conditions was fully recognized by Pro- 
fessor Gould and quotations follow from his discussion of hygiene and 
its important relation to public institution problems. 

The breathing of pure air is one of the first and most indispensable conditions of 
health and vigor. . Cleanliness of the person is of the utmost importance 

for the preservation of health. . . Exposure of the surface to the direct 

rays of the sun, is another of the conditions on which health is preserved. We are 
unable to explain the rationale of the sun's action, but we know that the rays of the 
sun are capable of inducins; intense chemical action, and it is probable their pres- 
ence is able to determine some «f the wonderful processes of vital chemistry on the 
action of which the integrity of the system depends. . . . Care should be 
taken, that the food is sound and wholesome. 

As a whole Professor Gould's investigation is one which would be 
a credit to any investigator since it shows an appreciation of the fac- 
tors involved and their relation to each other and to the general prob- 
lem Moreover, it is characterized by a thoroughness and attention to 
detail which is remarkable. Particularly noteworthy is the mental 
attitude of the observer. No detail of kitchen management is too 
small to arouse his interest and, indeed, the most marked characteris- 
tic of the report is that it so clearly shows that "inquiring mind" 
which is a prime requisite in any investigator. 

It is a proof of the value of his report that it is useful to students 
today not only for the data which it supplies regarding conditions as 
they existed in public institutions in the United States more than 
fifty years ago, but also because it so inteUigently discusses institution 
management with relation to food and other conditions, and supplies 
so much which is of permanent value. 



r 

ADELAIDE HUNTER HOODLESS. 

Born February 27, 1857; died February 25, 1910. 

Adelaide Hunter was born on a farm near St. George, Ontario; she 
received her schooling in St. George, and in i88o married John Hood- 
less of Hamilton, Ontario. 

In 1 89 1 she became interested in the Hamilton Yomig Women's 
Christian Association work and especially furthered its efforts to teach 
girls better methods in household affairs. Under her presidency the 
Hamilton Y.W.C.A. opened the first public school domestic science 
classes in Ontario, and in 1900 established the Ontario Normal School 
of Domestic Science and Art in the same city. Meanwhile in 1894 
she laid the claims of household science before the National Council 
of Women in an able speech, and was made chairman of its standing 
committee on household science. This ofBce she held until 1901 and 
through it was connected with the development of household science 
in every Canadian province which has taken it up. 

In 1897 she helped the women of Stoney Creek, Ont., to organize 
a club which developed into the Women's Institutes of Ontario, and 
gave them their motto "For Home and Country." In 1894, too, she 
carried her visions and plans and services to Hon. G. W. Ross, then 
Premier of Ontario, and to such good purpose that Ontario is today the 
banner province in Home Economics. For many years she was unoffi- 
cially attached to the Department of Education, gave it loyal service in 
the cause which lay nearest her heart, and became a recognized author- 
ity on woman's training for the home, in both Canada and the United 
States. 

In 1901 she carried more visions to Montreal with the result that 
Sir William MacDonald built and equipped two buildings at the Ontario 
Agricultural College at Guelph — Macdonald Institute and Mac- 
donald Hall. She was a member of the institute staff and lectured 
regularly to her "Macdonald girls" Recently her interest embraced 
industrial education for girls, and she died while speaking on the 
subject to the Toronto Women's Canadian Club. 

Mrs. Hoodless believed that "no higher vocation has been or ever 
can be given to woman than that of the homemaker and citizen builder," 

318 



iQio] Adelaide Hunter Hoodless 319 

and she was an able and persuasive advocate of her belief. In the midst 
of her own rich and full home life, she did noble pioneer work for 
homemaker education in Canada; its present development is in large 
measure due to her tireless promotion of its claims and the scope of 
her ideals; and she laid her work down in the middle of plans for its 
greater development. 

In the Home Economics Asociation where, as in all similar 
organizations, the members find mutual inspiration in social con- 
tact as well as in serious conference, Mrs. Hoodless' attractive per- 
sonality will be greatly missed. 

Mary Urie Watson. 



A MODEL FOR BRANCH ASSOCIATIONS OF HOME 
ECONOMICS. 

We reprint below a copj' of the circulars, recenty used by the New England 
Home Economics Association as they furnish an excellent model for the formation 
of such branches. 

The chairman, Miss Sarah L. Arnold, has furnished a few words of introduction. 

—Ed. 

The organization of the American Association has paved the way 
for smaller groups which can not only do effective work in the various 
centers, but can derive great advantage f"-om such association. 

We found a ready response to the circular calling for the New Eng- 
land Association. Teachers in public schools and in private schools, 
settlement workers, housewives, and others interested in general edu- 
cation or in social work made up the company which assembled at the 
first meeting. It was evident that we had general common interests, 
and that at the same time each placed special emphasis upon some one 
phase of the work. It was therefore deemed wise to arrange smaller 
conferences for the study of specihc questions. This would maintain 
the enthusiasm and interest of individuals, would occasion informal 
meetings, and supply material for larger conferences. 

The response thus far has been generous and enthusiastic. We hope 
soon to make a more definite report of progress. 

Even in its youth the Association has served as host to the Ameri- 
can Association at its recent meeting in Boston. This meeting proved 
of incalcuable benefit to the younger and affiliated association. Al- 
ready the experience of the New England Association leads us to be- 
lieve that the organization of such groups, however small, in many 
sections of the country would increase the enthusiasm for the cause 
and provide many advantages for the individual members — Sarah 
Louise Arnold. 



320 



1 9 1 o] A Model for Branch A ssociations 321 

[Reprints of the Circulars.] 
NEW ENGLAND HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

Chairman. Secretary-Treasurer 

Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, Miss Isabel F. Hyams, 

Dean of Simmons College, 26 Wales Street, 

Boston, Mass. Dorchester, Mass. 

MEMBERSHIP NOTICES 

The New England Association of Home Economics hopes to include in its mem- 
bership all New England men and women who are interested in raising the stand- 
ard of home life and in extending the knowledge of Home Economics. The mem- 
bership fee is fifty cents. This entitles the member to join conferences and to at- 
tend all meetings of the Association. 

Will you not become a member and ask a friend to join the Association? En- 
closed are membership forms which may be sent with stamps or with a check to the 
Secretary of the Association, Miss Isabel F. Hyams, 26 Wales Street, Dorchester, 
Mass. 

The next meeting of the Association will be held at the Institute of Technology, 
comer of Clarendon Street, 525 Boylston Street, on Saturday, December 11, at 
3 P.M. Subject, Home Economics as a Social Force. The meeting will be addressed 
by Miss Alice Higgins, Agent of the Associated Charities of Boston and Miss Wini- 
fred Gibbs, Agent of the New York Association for the Improying of the Conditions 
of the Poor. If time allows, the claims of the housewife will be presented by a mem- 
ber of the Association. 

Mrs. Richards will present plans for the reception of the American Association. 

Yon are invited to attend the meeting. 

MEMBERSHIP BLANK NEW ENGLAND HOME ECONOMICS 
ASSOCIATION. 



_,, „ fme as /a member „ 

Please enroll < < , of the New England Home Economics 

Association T ^'i^h. tojoin the following conferences 
l^We 

enclose $ for membership dues beginning 

,We 



Name . . . 
Address. 
Position. 



plan for CONFERENCES 



It has been suggested that the New England Home Economics Association should 
be divided for specific work into conferences. Each conference would be made up 
of members who express a desire to study some particular problem. These confer- 
ences would be under the direct leadership of a chairman, would meet at such inter- 
vals as they might wish, and have independent plans for investigations, study, or 
simple conference. There would be no Kmit to members. A small group, for exam- 



322 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

pie, might confer about a tea-table, while larger groups taight gather more formally 
to discuss a matter in which they are interested. The chairmen of the conferences 
may be called upon to report at the general meetings. 

The following conferences have been suggested. Please indicate your choice of 
one or more in returning your application for membership. 

(i) Public school programmes in Home Economics. 

(2) Home Economics in social work. 

(3) Domestic service. 

(4) Home Economics for the housewife, 
(s) Home Economics in higher education. 

(6) Sewing and associated handicrafts. 

(7) Study of dietaries. 

(8) Rural schools. 

(9) Institutional management. 

The conferences will be completely free to elect their own chairman and to plan 
the methods of any undertaking which they may devise. Other subjects for con- 
ferences may be added. 



EDITORIALS 

In the rapid development of the past ten years Home Economics 
Conference ^^^^^ ^° ^^^^ reached the stage where the need of 
on Household specialization is felt. During the Boston meeting 
Administra- ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ emphasized and a section 
tion. devoted to study of problems of household admin- 

istration and institutional management was suggested. 
These annual meetings are now on such broad lines that it becomes 
essential to reduce the experiments and experience of many workers 
to compact form for discussion. 

The trustees of the Lake Placid Club cordially invite such a section 
to hold its first meeting at the club the latter part of June and offer 
club facilities for the study of such problems as they may serve to 
illustrate. A week spent together where discussion and comparison 
can go on quietly, without the distractions and confusion of city life 
with its divided interests, should count much for progress. There were 
only seven, outside of club residents, who came together to organize 
the Lake Placid conference on Home Economics in 1899, but results 
seem to have justified the effort. 

^ Those who would like to cooperate in this work are asked to write 
direct to the editor of this department (Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake 
Placid Club, Essex Co., N. Y.) suggesting subjects of immediate in- 
terest for discussion at this first meeting. It may be wiser to concen- 
trate on a few lines of work at present without attempting to cover the 
broad field. Programs wiU be mailed to all who send addresses. 

An interestmg development in the Home Economics field is the 
large number of association meetings in many states of the Union. 
Some of these are held in connection with an organized 
Branch ^ body, such as a state teachers' association. Some- 

Association times, again, it is a meeting at a university in corn- 
Meetings, bination with some woman's club. Reports of a few 
of these gatherings are given elsewhere in this issue, 
but the Journal would like to publish a full list of such meetings! 
It is therefore earnestly requested that reports be sent to the Editor 
of the Education Section, 525 West 120th Street, New York City. 

323 



324 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Papers now in preparation for the October number of the Journal 
on methods of teaching in domestic art will mark the beginning of a 
Methods of series of articles on methods of teaching in the dif- 
Teaching ferent departments of Home Economics. If they 

Home ^ prove helpful and arouse discussion, this form of 

Ji/Conomics. presenting the subject will be continued in future 
numbers. The topic is one of vital interest to a large number of the 
readers of the Journal. The editor of the education section would 
welcome questions and reports of experiences, for we need an exchange 
of opinion in regard to practical details of method and classroom man- 
agement and suggestions from many sources. Exact imiformity in 
the teaching of this subject is not desirable and would certainly be 
impossible in a country where conditions are so varied; but open dis- 
cussion offers one method of raising the standard of teaching. We 
need to see how the best pedagogical principles may be applied to the 
various household topics, each topic and each lesson being made the 
subject of careful study. 

We are not claiming too much when we say that Home Economics 
is now an assured subject in the educational world. The struggle for 
recognition is over; but this is no time for us to rest upon any laurels 
that we have seemed to win. We now need to work on the develop- 
ment of courses of study which shall be effectively related to the cur- 
ricula of the pubHc school, the vocational and industrial school, and 
the college. Above all we need to appreciate the necessity for the care- 
ful management of recitation and laboratory work. 

It has been said by more than one educator that the household arts 
are among the most poorly taught subjects in the school. This crit- 
icism must not be accepted or rejected without thought. The sub- 
ject has now for a few years been so prominently before the pubii»- 
that its defects of necessity stand out, while those of other subjects 
are for the time partially forgotten. The youngest of the group has 
been, moreover, the first to receive the brunt of discussion which has 
resulted from the development of new pedagogical ideas that will in 
time affect the teaching of all branches in the curriculum. 

We must also admit that the standard of teaching in these branches 
has doubtless suffered in the last few years from the fact that the call 
for instruction in all classes of schools has increased so rapidly that 
the supply of well-trained teachers has been wholly inadequate. Many 
teachers have thus been thrown on their own initiative in new fields 
who but for this pressure would have had longer disdpline and experi- 



iQio] Editorials 325 

ence in normal or graduate work before attempting to fill independent 
positions. For the same reason there has been too little opportunity 
for a strict grading of instruction. The lines have not been clearly 
drawn between elementary, secondary and collegiate courses. 

In meeting these difficulties the teachers of Home Economics have 
done some of the noblest pioneer work anywhere on record, and the 
same spirit will enable them to meet the demands of the future. 

What are some of the fundamental facts that we need to appreciate 
in order to raise the level of teaching? Teachers often fail to recognize 
that they are dealing with a body of ideas, so many in number and so 
vital that there is an embarrassment of riches. We are in danger of 
losing ourselves in the practical detail. It seems more difficult in the 
field of home work to realize the vital relation between theory and 
practice than in any other industry or occupation. In agriculture, an 
occupation most closely aUied to home work, it is already well known 
that no field work can produce permanently satisfactory results unless 
it is based on sovmd and well tested-science. It is the function of teach- 
ers of household arts so to use theory in connection with practice that 
they can convince the world at large that this connection is a neces- 
sity. Surely there is no group of teachers with a greater opportunity 
than is offered to the teachers of Home Economics to organize 
scientific, ethical and economic principles in such a way that they 
will bear directly upon actual work, first in the classroom and then 
in the home. 

The editors of the Journal have been very desirous of presenting 
articles on domestic art, but so far there has been difficulty in obtain- 
Domestic Art ^^^ suitable material. As noted above, a study of 
methods of teaching in this branch will appear in the 
October number and we hope that it will be the beginning of helpful 
discussion of the subject in our pages. But what is, perhaps, more 
needed is to increase our body of knowledge on all domestic art 
subjects. 

The scientific journals contain a large amoimt of material on domes- 
tic art topics such as the studies of the composition of silk by Abder- 
halden and his associates, which are being pubhshed in Zeitschrift fiir 
Physiologische Chemie. Many of the chemical and technical journals 
contain articles on dyeing, and material is pubhshed from time to time 
comparable with the note which is to appear in the Journal on the use 
of diastase for removing starch from clothing sent to the laundry, a 



326 The Journal oj Home Economics IJune 

method which presumably entails less wear and tear on starched goods 
than the usual methods. It would be well worth while for some of the 
teachers of domestic art to endeavor to collect from the journals of 
recent years and other similar sources of information the data applic- 
able to domestic art topics, so that the fund of knowledge available to 
teachers may be comparable with that which pertains to the compo- 
sition of foods and other topics related to domestic science. Students 
might also be encouraged to take domestic art subjects for thesis work, 
and it should be possible to select topics which are capable of scientific 
treatment. Miss Crook's work on testing textiles affords an illustra- 
tion of what can be done. For instance, it is said that a great deal of 
difl&culty is experienced in dyeing raflfia evenly, one surface taking the 
color much better than the other. Why could not some student study 
the problem and determine whether this h due to the different struc- 
ture of the cells on the two surfaces of the rafl&a? The two surfaces of 
grass blades differ materially in this respect and if the surfaces of raflSa 
cells should be found to differ, it is natural that their power of absorb- 
ing and holding dyes should vary correspondingly. 

The protective power of clothing as affected by its material and color 
is another very interesting subject and an excellent piece of work 
could be done by a student or teacher who would go through a set of 
that mine of information, the Archivfiir Hygiene, in order to collect 
and digest the articles on that subject. 

Those interested in the Milk and Baby Hygiene movement and 
those who believe in dairy farming as an occupation for women as 

well as those who are leading in one of the greatest 
A Summer sanitary movements of the day will be glad to learn 
Dairy School, of a summer dairy school to be held from June 7- 

July 19. For particulars, address Mrs. C. B. Ware, 
Norfolk, Mass. The Warelands Dairy also offers for the week of 
July 25 to August I a conference on agriculture for women. 

Back numbers of Journal of Home Economics wanted, February, 
April and June Numbers of rgog and February, 1910. 

The unusual demand from new subscribers for the 
Back num- complete file of our Journal has depleted our stock 
bers wanted, and we need a few hundred copies of each of the num- 
bers mentioned above. Any member of the Associa- 
tion sending us copies will be credited for the full face value of same 
on their subscription account for the coming year, or paid in cash. 



iQio] Editorials 327 

Be sure to place your name and address on the outside wrapper, so 
that the numbers can be identified and credit given to the proper 
person. 

Mail to the WiUiams & Wilkins Co., 2427-29 York Road, Balti- 
more, Maryland. 

The Editois of the Journal would call the especial attention of 

members who have not paid dues for 1910 to bills that will be found 

_ ^, - , enclosed in their copy of this issue of the 

To those who nave ^ ^ -^ 

.J J Journal. 

not paid dues. nr,, ,- , ^^, r 1 

The first bill for the current year was 
sent out in March and the number of those responding to it has not 
been as large as we could wish. We beUeve that in most cases the 
omission to pay dues comes from inattention or forgetfulness, and that 
this appeal will meet with a ready response. Even in cases where 
the Journal has failed to meet the needs of the subscribers, we feel 
that, having accepted three numbers, they can hardly in good faith 
refuse to meet the implied obUgation to pay for it. 

It has been suggested that there may be some misunderstanding as 
to the limits of the year. The Journal issues five numbers, February, 
April, June, October and December, and all subscriptions are for the 
calendar year. A member writes " I paid $2 . 00 last August, and yet 
you sent me a bill." This $2.00 was for the year 1909, and we should 
Hke to think that our correspondent feels that she has had her money's 
worth in the five numbers of that year and wishes to continue to receive 
the same help. The editors are most desirous that the members of 
the Association shall look upon the Journal as something that they 
own and conduct in the interest of a cause which we all hold to be 
of vital importance in our modern education and daily Kfe, and that 
the majority of them do so regard it is evidenced in the cordial and 
helpful correspondence that comes to the office. But perhaps it is 
not as easy to grasp the fact that in starting such a journal we have 
assumed financial responsibilities that must be met from month to 
month. Our only income is from our dues of $2.00 a year, which 
must also pay the expenses of the annual meeting and we hope that 
all interested readers will help to enlarge our fist of members. Send 
to the editors lists of names to which we can mail a folder describing 
the aims of the association, see that the teachers of Home Economics 
in your commimity know of the publication and the help that it offers, 
ask that it be placed in your pubUc and other hbraries and tell your 



328 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



friends that it is there that they may call for it. Bring it to the atten- 
tion of women's clubs, intelHgent housekeepers, social workers and all 
those interested in a higher standard of daUy life. 

The editors have far-reaching plans for enlarging the usefulness of 
the Journal and they should not be hampered by a small or uncer- 
tain income. 



We wish to call special attention of members to the necessity 
of sending prompt notice of change of address. 
It should be remembered that second-class mail 
matter is not forwarded by the post-offices unless 
postage is furnished. 



Addresses of 
Members. 



For lack of space we were unable to print in the June number a 
valuable article by Flora Hartley Greene, her thesis presented to the 
College of Agriculture of the University of Missouri 
Advance in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the 

Notice. degree of Master of Science, subject "On the 

Amount of Edible Meat in the Various Cuts from 
Animals of Known Life Histories." This thesis will appear in our 
October issue, but as announcements of original work cannot with 
fairness to the investigator be delayed, we wish to call attention in 
advance to this article and to quote part of the results based on a 
large number of experiments in which the waste of bone and fat 
and of water through evaporation by cooking is carefully considered. 

Although data have been previously reported as to some of these 
points, the investigation is believed to be of special interest because of 
the unusual opportunities afforded the author to learn the conditions 
under which the beef was produced, records being available as to th«; 
previous history of each animal and the food which it consumed. The 
data are summarized below: 

Percentage of Edible Meal in Various Cuts of Beef. 



Beef Loaf 

Braised Round 

Broiled Rib Ends . . , 

Rib Roast 

Porter House Roast 
Porter House Steak 



PSB CZNT or EDIBLE 
MEAT. 



72.9 
61.47 

41.6 
41.2 
43.2 



COST or EDIBLE 
MEAT PBB POUND . 



20.6 cents 
24.4 
27s 
37.5 
61. 1 

63 -3 



BCTCBEB'S PBICE 
PEB POUND. 



15 cents 

IS 
10 

IS 

2S 
25 



ANNOUNCEMENTS. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Arrangements are in progress to hold the third session of the Grad- 
uate School at the Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic 
Arts, Ames, Iowa, July 6-20. This will afford opportunity to mem- 
bers to avail themselves of many of the advantages of the fourth 
session of the Graduate School of Agriculture, which will be held at 
the college, July 4-29. 

Among the courses tentatively announced for the Graduate School 
of Agriculture during the sessions of the Graduate School of Home 
Economics may be mentioned as of special interest those on 
sociology, by President K. L. Butterfield of the Massachusetts Agri- 
cultural College; on economics by Dr. H. C. Taylor of the University 
of Wisconsin and Dr..B. H. Hibbard of the Iowa State College; on 
farm buildings by F. H. King; on factors influencing the keeping 
quaHties of butter and milk, by L. A. Rogers and S. H. Ayers of the 
Dairy Division of the U. S. Department of Agriculture; on landscape 
architecture, by Prof. J. S. Pray of Harvard University; and on plant 
physiology by Dr. E. von Tschermak, piofessor of Plant Breeding 
in the Royal Agricultural College of Austria. There is also planned 
a round-table conference on agricultural journalism for July 9; 
excursions to typical Iowa farms, July 16; a discussion on the evening 
of July 13 of university extension in general, led by Prof. L. E. 
Reber of the University of Wisconsin and President Edwin E. Sparks 
of the Pennsylvania State College; and an address on the evening of 
July 15 on the status of agricultural extension at home and abroad, 
by Prof. John Hamilton, farmers' insdtute specialist of the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture. 

The special program of the Graduate School of Home Economics 
has not yet been fully decided upon. In connection with it, one 
course has been suggested by Miss CaroUne L. Hunt to be caUed 
The Scientific Basis of Progressive Legislation Affecting the Welfare 
of the Home, and to include not more than one lecture a day during 
the session. 

329 



330 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

This course is suggested by the fact that in the various legislatures 
and city council laws and ordinances are being introduced with the 
purpose of impro\dng the conditions which aflfect home life. In sup- 
port of such legislation arguments are being made which are based 
on scientific data, and it frequently becomes very desirable for those 
interested to know how far these data can be relied upon. For example , 
ordinances providing for the proper care of streets are being urged on 
the ground that diseases are transmitted by dust. Changes in the 
methods of disposing of household waste and stable refuse are urged 
upon the belief that flies carry disease. Building regulations are 
demanded on the ground that sunUght and fresh air are necessary 
to physical vigor. The demand for laws limiting hours of labor 
in factories is often based on physiological and chemical studies of 
fatigue, and on the belief that if labor continues too long reactions 
become slow and there is special danger of injury by machinery. This 
may be considered a home problem if for no other reason than that it 
affects the working power of the bread winners of families. In the 
case of women it is urged that overwork will affect disastrously the 
physical stamina of the next generation. 

Those who are interested in such legislation and regulations must 
imderstand the scientific basis upon which they rest if they are to 
advocate them intelligently. They must know what work has been 
done which proves the necessity for legislation, what work remains 
to be done if the plea is to be based on other than general and 
sentimental arguments, and what reported work is unreliable. It 
is very desirable that students of Home Economics should be able 
to possess such knowledge. 

Only a beginning is contemplated this year. Miss Hunt is to give 
one or two general introductory lectures, and Dr. C. F. Langworthy 
is to report on the literature of the physiology and chemistry of fatigue, 
and to discuss the possibilities of the respiration calorimeter as a means 
of furnishing scientific data in this connection. Other addresses are 
being arranged for. 

It is intended to restrict the course very closely, excluding unre- 
lated material and confining scientific work to that bearing directly 
on legislation which is at present being generally advocated, and to 
legislation which will be recognized by all as affecting home Ufe. 

Other courses are also contemplated. Those interested should com- 
municate with Miss Edna D. Day, University of Missouri, Columbia, 
Mo., who is chairman of the committee of arrangements. 



1 9 1 o] A nnouncements 331 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

Sectional Meeting in conjunction with the National Education 
Association, for the Discussion of Methods of Teaching in Elementary 
and Secondary Schools. Headquarters: Margaret Cheney Memo- 
rial Room, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 30 Trinity Place, 
Boston, Mass. Mrs. E. H. Richards, Chairman. 

Preliminary Program. 

First Meeting: Tuesday, July 5, 2 p.m. I^Iiss Helen Kinne, Chair- 
man. 

Topic for discussion: Presentation of Subject Matter in House- 
hold Science and Arts to Elementary Pupils. 

Second Meeting: Wednesday, July 6, 2.30 p.m. 

Topic for discussion: Methods of Teaching Household Science in 
Secondary Schools. 

The speakers are to be announced later. Many prominent persons 
are expected to take part. Information regarding accommodations 
may be obtained in advance by writing to Mrs. E. H. Richards, Mas- 
sachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass. 

CONFERENCE ON INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT. 

A sectional conference of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion will be held at the Lake Placid Club, Lake Placid, New York, 
Jime 27 to July 2, 1910. Members of the association who are 
engaged in household and institutional administration, or in related 
teaching work, are cordially invited by the trustees of the Lake 
Placid Club to attend the conference. Persons engaged in the 
management of college and school dormitories, dining room and school 
limch rooms, and in scientific and educational work directly related 
to such undertakings, are especially invited. 

The following provisional program is announced, and a detailed program will be 
mailed to members of the association early in June. 

1 . The Expanding Field of Household Administration, its divisions of profes- 
sional service and the training in preparation for each. Nomenclature. Function 
of each position, for example; Dietitian, Superintending housekeeper or matron, 
Purveyor. — Miss Adelaide Nutting of Teachers College and others. 

2 . House Planning for Institutional Households. 



332 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

3. The Financial Management of Institutional Households: Systems of Ac- 
counts, including budgets, schedules and records. — Miss Katharine Sharp, Lake 
Placid Club. 

4. The Organization of Labor in Institutional Households as regards Time and 
other Factors.— Miss Alice Patterson, Mt. Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass. 

5. Ideals in the Organization of the College Dormitory.— Miss Dora Eaton, 
University of Ohio. 

6. Qualifications and Training of the Director of the College Dormitory.— Miss 
Lydia Southard, Whittier Hall, Teachers College. 

7. The College Dormitory as a Teaching Field.— Miss Mary Urie Watson, Mac- 
donald Institute, Guelph, Ontario. 

8. The Buyer or Purveyor for the Institutional Household. — Mrs. Miriam 
Loomis, Laselle Seminary, Auburndale, Mass. 

9. The Institutional Kitchen and Dining Room: Its arrangement, equipment 
and ser\nce.— Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid Club. Miss Florence Corbett, 
Teachers College. 

ID. Dietetics and Dining Room Management.- -Miss Emma Smedley, William 
Penn High School, Philadelphia, Pa. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Dept. of Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. C. 

II. Trained Workers in Institutional Kitchens.— Miss Colburn, Chicago. 
* 12. Training for Supervision of Institutional Laundries. — Miss Clara D. Noyes, 
St. Luke's Hospital, New Bedford, Mass. 

The trustees of the Lake Placid Club through the President and Vice-President, 
Mr. and Mrs. Melvil Dewey, extend an invitation to all who attend the conference 
to accept the hospitality of the Club. Rooms will be furnished without e.xpense to 
the delegates, and the charge for table board is $2.50 a day. 

It is hoped that special rate railroad tickets can be secured. If not, mileage can 
be used and unused tickets will be redeemed by the Club. Delegates are invited to 
arrive at the Club on Monday night, June 27, so that the conference can begin 
promptly on Tuesday morning. Those who can do so are invited to remain over 
Sunday, July 3 . As mentioned elsewhere the Boston conference on Home Economics 
education in connection with the National Education Association takes place on 
July s and 6. Delegates can thus go immediately from Lake Placid to Boston and 
attend both conventions. 

Persons desiring to attend the conference should address at once. Home Eco- 
nomics, Lake Placid Club, Essex County, New York. 



NEWS FROM INSTITUTIONS. 

Mrs. Mary D. Chambers, director of Home Economics, writes as follows : " Our 
senior students in Home Economics are now in the midst of the great work of the term 
—the practice teaching. Part of this is done in the cooking cen- 
ters of the Rockford (Ills.) public schools, part in the college, 
Rockford with classes of college sudents. WTiile each girl in turn con- 

CoUege. ducts a laboratory period the rest of the class sit around with 

notebooks and pencils, and armed with their very keenest 

critical faculties. The result is evident during the discussions that follow, which 

are the liveliest we have; and where, up to the present, every "practice-teacher" 

has shown herself worthy of a medal for "coolness tmder fire." 

Our beginning class think they are making bavaroises, charlottes, and diplo- 
matic puddings. But the day of reckoning is at hand, when they are to see that all 
these dainties were merely vehicles for the truths concerning the reaction of com- 
mercial gelatine to water, heat and acids. 

"All of us, seniors, juniors and teachers, are formulating arguments for the truth 
that is in us, viz: why some phase of this subject should form a part of the curricu- 
lum of all schools— on the basis of its economic, sociological and cultural value." 

.A.t the second annual farmer's meeting held in February, Home Economics 
courses were offered by the college for the first time in its history. Among the 
speakers were Mrs. E. H. Richards, Miss Anna Barrows, 
Massachusetts Miss Isabel Bevier, and Miss Helen Louise Johnson. The 
Agricultural courses were well attended and with the increasing interest 

College. now being widely manifested in the state in all forms of exten- 

sion work should be productive of much benefit. 

The summer school to be held from July ii to August 12 includes three 
courses in domestic science, under the direction of Miss Harriet Rinaker of the 
University of Illinois. 



A home maker's conference was held in connection with Farmers' Week, Feb- 
ruary 7-12. Some of the subjects treated were house furnishing, home nursing, 
New York State ^^^ amenities in home Hfe, a demonstration of approved 
College of Aeri- ^°°^°S appliances, household conveniences, household expend- 
culture Cornell ^'^^^' dweUing house score cards. Home Economics at Cor- 
University. °^'^ University, past, present and future, building materials, 

elements of house planning, physical attitudes in housework, 
emergencies and the family income. 

A bill has passed the state legislature appropriating $154,000 for the construc- 
tion of a Home Economics building. 



333 



334 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [June 

Beginning with September, 1910, the present two years' normal course in domestic 
science and art will be extended to three years. This change is being made to meet 
the growing demand for more broadly trained teachers of 
Mechanics Insti- Home Economics. 

stute Rochester, For the first year and a half of the course the curriculum 
W. Y. will be the same for all students, opportunity to specialize 

being offered during the remainder of the three years, with 
allowance made for an extra amount of observing and practice teaching during the 
senior year. 

To meet the requirements of the new curriculum more laboratory space is needed 
and rooms in the Eastman Building will be equipped during the summer accord- 
ingly — an additional chemical laboratory for special work in foods and a larger 
biological laboratory and lecture room being the most important of the improve- 
ments. 

Besides the teachers' course, Mechanics Institue offers a one year course in home 
making to young women who wish to supplement school or college training with 
practical study in Home Economics; also a one year course in lunch room manage- 
ment where women of maturer years may fit themselves for the new and lucrative 
field of directing cafeterias, factory or school lunch rooms, etc. 

In consequence of the death of Mrs. Hattersley, director of the school of domestic 

arts, on January 15, and the resignation of Miss Edith Greer, director of the school 

of domestic science, which takes effect July i, it has been 

. deemed expedient to carry out the frequently discussed plan 

of consolidating these schools under one administration to be 

roc yn, . . known as the School of Household Science and Arts. Miss 

Isabel Ely Lord, librarian of the Institute and a member of 

the general faculty for about six years, has accepted the directorship of the new 

school. The three types of work that have hitherto been carried on, viz: normal 

training, technical training for trades use, and technical training for home use, are 

to be continued and several short new courses for home-making and servants will 

be added. The schools have a combined enrollm ent at present of over 1 500 students. 

The state federation of womans' club is raising a scholarship fund of $15,000' 
the income from which is to be given to students in Home Economics. Itisexpced 
that at least one student will be receiving the benefit of this 
. fund by September, 1910. 

ennsy vama ^j^^ ^^^^ ^ Love joy, dean of the department of Home 

^ ' Economics, has been continuing the extension work begun by 

the department two years ago, and has traveled extensively 
throughout the state presenting the subject. The department has added to its 
equipment this year a new laboratory for work in chemistry of foods and of nutri- 
tion under the direction of Miss Elizabeth B. Bower. 

Miss Ellen A. Huntington, director of the department of domestic science and 

art has kindly sent a program of the housekeeper's conference held at the college 

Jan. 24-Feb. 5. This conference is believed to be unique in 

its combination of practical instruction in the laboratory in 

^^ ^^ connection with the public lectures. The program of the 

*• ■ conference states the aim as follows: 



igio] News from Institutions 335 

"The housekeeper's conference is designed to aid the women of the state in 
their household needs. Practical instruction in cooking, sewing and sanitation 
will be given in the new and completely equipped laboratory of the woman's build- 
ing, and ample opportunity will be offered for discussion of individual problems. 

"A public lecture on topics of general interest will be given each afternoon by 
the president and members of the agricultural college faculty, and well-known 
lecturers. In connection with the conference an exhibition on " flies" will be shown. 
The various departments of the college have cooperated in arranging this exhibit, 
which is of universal interest. The dairying, poultry and horticultural meetings for 
farmers will be held at the same date and classes for women will be arranged. 

"The general fee for the course is one dollar; and a slight additional fee to cover 
the cost of materials used is charged students who take the cooking course." 

In the two weeks of the conference there were held eleven demonstration cooking 
lessons of the most simple and practical character; seven lessons in sewing, covering 
the purchase, cutting, fitting and finishing of a dress; three lessons in house sanita- 
tion and eleven public lectures on practical topics, chief among which seems to 
figure agricultural life for women. 

The woman's building of the college was also the scene of an afternoon, evening 
and morning meeting of the Western Branch of the American Home Economics 
Association, on February 4 and 5. The subjects for discussion were a course of 
study for the high schools of the state, domestic science for the schools of the state 
and housekeepers as consumers. 

Miss Bertha M. Terrill, professor of Home Economics, has been obliged to give 
up part of her work on accoimt of illness. Her course in the 
University of smnmer session will be carried on by Miss Adelaide Abell of 

Vermont. the Technical High School, Providence, R. I. 

Miss Nellie Crooks, director of domestic arts, has been appointed director of 
Home Economics for the ensuing year. Miss Hanson, who has 
been the director of domestic science, leaves to pursue fur- 

Milwaukee-Dow- ^^^ study. Miss Crooks is also giving a course of lectures on 

ner college. textiles in the University of Wisconsin. 

.Another most interesting program for a women's course in Home Economics was 

carried out at the University of Wisconsin College of Agriculture, February 8 to 12. 

Among the subjects treated in lectures and demonstrations 

were the following : Value of ventilation in the prevention of 

University of disease, and in farm dwellings and rural schools; the house 

Wisconsin. pj^^^. j^Q^gg sanitation; physical development of the child; 

home decoration and furnishing; house drainage and sewage 

disposal for country homes; bacterial contamination of milk; insect pests in the 

house; adulteration of textiles and foods; and the preparation of food in many 

of its aspects. In addition to the regular instruction staff of the university, lectures 

and demonstrations were given by Miss .\nna Barrows of Teachers College, Joseph 

E. Wing of Breeders' Gazette, President L. D . Harvey of Stout Institute, Menomonie, . 

Wisconsin, and Miss Nellie Crooks of Milwaukee — Downer College. 



336 The Journal of Home Economics IJime 

The department of Household Economics of Northfield Seminary was organized 
twenty-two years ago by Miss Emily Huntington. It now has splendidly equipped 
quarters in the new Home Science Hall, and although there 
Northfield Semi- are four teachers many more students ask for the work each 
nary, East North- term than can be admitted. One term of cooking and one of 
field, Mass. sewing are required for graduation from any seminary course. 

Elective work is offered in dressmaking, millinery, basketry, 
embroidery, advanced cooking, and housekeeping. 

The last mentioned is a professional course, lasting one and one-half years, and 
the instructors are striving to combine in it a good scientific foundation and much 
practical application. The house "from attic to cellar" is studied in regard to 
construction, furnishing and care. The study of food and dietetics is continued from 
the other courses, with the calculation and preparation of balanced dietaries, first 
for those in comfortable circumstances, then for limited means, and finally for the 
lowest possible cost. 

The school nurse gives lectures on home nursing, the school buyer on buying, and 
special courses in household chemistry have been arranged. Laundry work is also 
taught. 

As the work of caring for the nine dormitories and the preparation of food for 
the four himdred and fifty residents of the school is done as "domestic work" by 
the students, an unusual opportunity is offered for practical training and experience. 

A course of six lectures and demonstrations was given by Miss Anna Barrows 
during the week of February 14. The course was arranged 
Stout Institute especially for the students and teachers of the Institute, but 
Menomonee,Wis. was also open to the public on payment of a small fee. 

The opening of this new school is awaited with great interest. Mr. Charles R. 
Allen, the principal, writes that he cannot give as yet any coherent material about 
„ the girl's work but sends an announcement of his even- 

ing classes. The school had on file about seven hundred and 
■' fifty applications for these courses which opened in March. 

The girls' courses are expected to be opened in September. 
The evening courses included in general practical and systematic instruction in 
the principles of dressmaking and millinery, and are intended to help a student to 
learn how to make her own hats or clothing economically and well, or to give some pre- 
liminary training to a girl wishing to secure work as a dressmaker's or milliner's 
apprentice. These courses are open free of charge to any girl or woman over 14 
years old, and are to be maintained for a period of at least ten weeks if the attend- 
ance is sufficient. Those who complete the course in a satisfactory manner will 
be entitled to a certificate. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

Miss Etta P. Flagg, chairman of the domestic science section of the Los Aneeles 
Qty and County Teachers' Institute reports the following list of Callftrnia^ol" 

as having domestic science courses: Berkeley, Eureka, Fresno 
Home Economics ^^^^P^^^^' Auburn, Oakland, Ontario, Oxnard, Pasadena! 
Work in California. J^"""!?.^' ^^^^^^s. Riverside, Santa Barbara, San Bernardino, 

San Diego, Santa Monica, Los Angeles, Huntington Park 

viUe, and Long Beach"""'''°' '^^ "^^"^ ""'''''' ^^'°^^^°' ^-^"-' W^^-' 
Miss Flagg also sends a report of the meeting of this section held at the Poly- 
techmc High School, Los Angeles on Monday and Wednesday afternoons, December 
2oand22, 1909. OnMondayaftemoontheelementaryschoolwasdiscussed. Miss 
Mabel Morgan and Miss Mae McKinley discussed how domestic science work could 
be made more educational. Both contended that this could be accomplished by a 
more thorough study of the presentation of the lessons and by realizing more fully 

whata wealthofmatenalwasincluded in these reports. The valueofmorevocational 
traimng was considered by Mrs. Minnie Brennan, a domestic science teacher, 
Mr. Frank Bowelle, a city school principal, and Mr. Robert Lane, director of the 

1 w t .rt?'^""^- ^" ""''' ^° ^"^°^°^ more work. The question, Should 
the Work in the Elementary Grades be Vocational was discussed bvMii Mary 
Murphy and Miss Belle WaUace, both city school principals, the former .dvZ 
catmg It and the latter opposing it. 

On Wednesday afternoon Miss NeUe MiUer, from the Domestic Science Normal 
Schoo in Santa Barbara, gaveaforceful talk on Vocational Work in the Secondary 
Schools, in which she maintained that the cost of material, the time necessary, and 
the difficulty of disposing of the finished production made the question of more 
vocational work in the secondary schools most difficult of solution. She likewise 
thought that the trade school spirit should be most carefully eliminated from the 
vocational school. This paper was followed by a discussion by Miss Delp and Miss 
work ' ^'^^ domestic teachers, both of whom believed in more vocational 

On December 23, the Pacific Coast Home Economics Association held its regular 
^w"?/". connection with the Southern California Teachers Association. Dr 
t ^- ^f,^t^"^ of Los Angeles gave a most practical and helpful talk upon How 
May the Teacher Safeguard the Health of her Pupils. Mrs. Lulu Hilliker, supervisor 
of domestic sicence in Redlands read a comprehensive paper on The Domestic 
Science Normal Schools of the United States and Canada. Miss Huntington, of the 
Agricultural College of Utah, spoke of the domestic science work in that state All 
of these meetings were weU attended and much interest was shown 

Miss Clark of OaUand, Cal., writes: "The Home Economics teachers of Califor- 
ma have two thnving organizations; their successful work shows in the rapidity in 
which the work is being extended in the state each year, and in the larger movement 
toward more industrial arts in the schools." 

337 



338 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Women's Institutes are coming to be an established branch of the Department 
of Farmers' Institutes in many states. They vary greatly, however, in their methods 
and in the character of the work given. Too often in meetings 
Home Economics for women, cooking is taught to the exclusion of all other 
for Women in branches of Home Economics, with the result that in the minds 
Rural Maryland, of the average woman. Home Economics has come to be synony- 
mous with cooking and recipes. As the average woman on 
the farm is a pretty good cook, she often resents the idea of some one coming to 
teach her to cook, and the criticism is often heard, "lean make just as good bread 
as she did," or "Her cake is no better than mine." The principles of cooking are 
important, but not more so than the principles of nutrition or the questions of sani- 
tation. The farmer has accepted the teachings of science in his work. He under- 
stands the importance of a well balanced ration for his dairy cows and is learning 
the necessity of sanitary stables. These principles applied to home will be of equal 
interest to the farmer's wife, and in many cases will open up new fields of thought 
for her. 

With these ideas as a basis, special women's institutes are being held in Maryland 
this year. One day, with morning and afternoon sessions, is devoted at each place. 
There have been no lessons in cooking, but instead the subjects of the lectures have 
been Importance of Training for Home Making, Some of the Sciences that Help in 
the Daily Work of the Home, Household Bacteriology or Why and How We Clean, 
Nutrition, and lastly a talk in Organization. The aim has been principally to im- 
press the importance and the scope of Home Economics. Where there was already in 
the community an organization, such as a Grange or Club, it was urged to strengthen 
itself by systematic study, the women applying themselves to the study of Home 
Economics. Where there was no orgaization, steps were taken to form one. Miss 
Emma S. Jacobs and Mrs. H. J. Patterson have been conducting this series of meet- 
ings and have found the women interested and responsive, and, to a certain extent, 
determined to have it taught in the public schools. — Elizabeth H. Patterson. 

The annual meeting of the Home Economics Association of Greater New York 
was held at the Hotel Brevoortin New York, January 15. A luncheon, at which 
were present seventy-nine members and their guests, preceded 
Annual Meeting the business meetings. Miss Florence Willard presented Ixr 
of the Greater report as delegate to the Boston meeting of the American Home 
New York Chapter. Economics Association. At the election of officers the follow- 
ing were chosen for 19 10: 
President, Helen Kinne, Teachers College; Vice-Presidents, Mary E. Williams, 
Supervisor Domestic Science, New York Public Schools and Mary Simkhowitch 
of Greenwich House ; Secretary-Treasurer, Mary Tough, 19 Clifton Place, Brook- 
lyn; and member of the executive committee, Ruth Wheeler, of Brooklyn. 

Miss Kinne introduced the speaker of the afternoon, Miss Edith Greer, whose 
subject was Home Economics in Europe. Miss Greer spoke of life as she saw it in 
Italy, Switzerland and Holland, these being the countries where most of her time 
was spent last year. She found much of reality and charm among these people and 
much, too, for us to make use of educationally. In Italy, the handiwork which is 
marvelous in technique, has in it the superb art of the country's earlier days; the 
art, as art, she found distinctly inferior to the handiwork, whereas in this country 



iQio] News from the Field 339 

there is general opinion that the reverse of this is true. After referring briefly to 
the work in Switzerland and Holland, the speaker concluded by expressing the 
hope that we might come to the performance of our work with ability to secure the 
beauty and finish of Italy, the definite execution of Switzerland and the immaculate 
cleanness of Holland. 

Other speakers of the afternoon were Miss Isabel Bevier of the University of 
Illinois, and Miss Gwendolyn Stewart, who spoke of the work done in Kings College 
for Women in London, England, under the direction of Miss Alice Ravenhill, whose 
recent visit to this country made her well known to many members of the Association. 

At the annual meeting held at Teachers College, Columbia University, New York 
City, during the Christmas holidays, the New York State Industrial Art Association 

gave an afternoon to the discussion of vocational work for 
New York State girls. Addresses were given on The training of Girls for the 
Teachers Asso- Industries, by Mrs. Mary Schenck Woolman, Professor of 
elation. Domestic Art, Teachers College, and Director of the ISIanhat- 

tan Trade School for Girls, and on Household Arts and Science 
as Vocational Training for Girls, by Miss Helen Kinne, Professor of Domestic 
Science, Teachers College. On another afternoon Miss Martha Van Rensselaer 
of Cornell University, spoke on Vocational Work for Country Girls. 

There occurred in Cleveland, February 11, an event most promising for the 

future of Home Economics in Ohio. This was a joint meeting of the domestic 

science and domestic art section of North Eastern Ohio 

. Teachers' Association and of the domestic science and domestic 

. art section of the Ohio Arts and Manual Training Association. 

Previous to the meeting, letters were sent to all teachers of 

these subjects in the State announcing the purpose of the 

meeting and the program. 

A round-table session at the Central High School at ten o'clock a.m. opened the 
meeting. Addresses were given on: 

Domestic Art: Its Content and Possibilities, by Miss Anna K. Flint, of Ohio 
State University; and Domestic Science, by Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews, of Teachers' 
College, Coliunbia University; and a discussion of the domestic science courses in 
Columbus, Toledo, Canton, and Cleveland, by Miss Faith R. Lanman, Miss 
Mathilda Campbell, Miss Edith Wise, and Mrs. Ada B. Williams, respectively. 

A business session followed at which a general desire was expressed for the for- 
mation of a state organization of home economists. The Misses Campbell, Wardall, 
Colwell, and McKinley and Mrs. Williams were appointed a committee to present 
plans for the formation of such an organization and to outline roughly a constitution. 

Luncheon was served at the Technical High School, where in the lunch room, 
74 covers, each having a place card designed and made in the applied arts depart- 
ment of the school, were prepared for the guests. A class of high school girls who 
were having a course in planning, cooking and serving meals, served the luncheon 
in three courses. After-luncheon talks followed by Mr. Barker, Principal of the 
Technical High School, acting as toast master, Mr. Elson, Superintendent of Public 
Instruction, in a speech of welcome, and Dr. Andrews, who discussed the Boston 
meeting of the American Home Economics Association. The visitors then inspected 



340 The Journal of Home Ecomonics [June 

the building, especially the household arts departments, where there were exhibits 
of domestic art work from the public schools of Dayton, Akron and Cleveland. 

At 3 o'clock p.m. the business session was resimied, and following a favorable 
report of the committee, an Ohio Chapter of the American Home Economics Associ- 
ation was organized. The following officers were elected: President, Miss Rachel 
H. Colwell, Lake Erie College; vice-president. Miss Mathilda Campbell, Toledo; 
secretary and treasurer, Mrs. Ada B. Williams, Cleveland; and Miss Mabel 
McKinley, Dayton, delegate to the National Association. 

At 4 o'clock p.m. the Cleveland Domestic Science and Domestic Art Club re- 
ceived their visiting friends in the Benjamin Parlor of the Yoimg Women's Christian 
Association. 

Miss Frances E. Sale, Director of the Department of Household Arts of the Har- 
risonburg (Va.) Normal and Industrial School for Women, reports as follows: 

Home Economics has been introduced, so far, into only a 
Home Economics few of the Virginia schools. The people are beginning to real- 
Work in Virginia, ize its importance and are nutting it into more schools each 
year, so that we hope in the near future to be able to report each 
school as teaching at least some phase of the subject. The interest of the people is 
being aroused and they are putting forth an effort to establish, at least, cooking and 
sewing in their schools. 

All three of Virginia's Normal Schools have the department of household arts. 
Farmville, which is the oldest, has had it three years, but succeeded only this year 
in getting the cooking laboratory equipped. Fredericksburg hopes to open its Normal 
School in the near future and this department will probably play an important role 
there. Domestic science has been taught several years in the schools at Staunton, 
Richmond , Lnychburg, Norfolk, and perhaps in a few other towns. There are always 
summer schools, too, in which this subject receives its share of attention. 

At Harrisonburg Normal and Industrial School for Women, which began its first 
session in September, 1909, the department of household arts is offering at present 
a course which covers two years. The general aim is to teach the art of right liv- 
ing, through the elevation of the ideals of the home and through the application of 
scientific principles to the management and work of the household. 

During the first quarter, or twelve weeks an elementary course was given in 
sewing, covering four periods (forty-five minutes each) per week. This was so 
popular that three sections had to be formed, and more sewing machines provided. 
A small exhibit of the work was given at the close of the quarter, which was very 
gratifying to the school authorities. According to the wish of a number of the 
students, the course has been continued through the second quarter. The sewing 
room is a very large, well-lighted room and is supplied with machines, electric iron, 
tables, desks, mirrors, lockers, etc. 

A course in Home Economics was also given which included two periods a week. 
This course is being followed by one in home cleaning and laundry the second quar- 
ter, and home nursing the third quarter, thereby completing the year's work. In 
January, the work in cookery was begun. The rooms, two in number, are on the 
top floor of the Science Hall. They are light, well-ventilated rooms, and like nearly 
every room in the Hall, afford excellent views of the surrounding valley and moun- 
tains. One a large, oblong room is fitted up for the laboratory, and accommodates 



iQio] News from the Field 341 

twenty-two students. The desks are fitted with individual gas-stoves and with 
drawers which contain the necessarj'^ utensils. A large, deep cabinet with glass 
doors extends almost across one end of the room. The smaller room is fitted up 
as a dining room, but also contains the coal-stove as there was no other place for 
it. A large screen which is being made in the manual arts class, will be used to 
screen the stove from the remainder of the room. The floor is of hard-wood, and 
the home cleaning class is studying the problem of the best method of treating it. 

The gas used in the laboratory is generated at the school. A study of how it 
is generated and also how the building is heated and ventilated make interesting 
topics for the girls. 

As this is the first course the girls have had in household arts, none of the work 
this year is advanced. They will have methods, observation and practice of teach- 
ing the second year. It is very probable that a course in cooking and sewing will 
be given in the summer school. 

At a meeting of the State Teachers' Association at Richmond in November, a 
paper on household arts was read in the rural schools division. The object of the 
paper was to tell the teachers what is meant by household arts, and how it can be 
introduced into the rural schools of the state with little expense. A short sketch of 
what is included in domestic science, domestic art, Home Economics and home 
nursing was given, followed by a statement as to the importance of the subject and 
its real value to home makers, especially to the rural people. The last of the paper 
was devoted to what particular problems can be introduced into the schools with 
little cost, with a short discussion of the necessary equipment. 

During this meeting the few household arts teachers of the state, who were for- 
tunate enough to attend the convention, met and began what we hope to see become 
a state organization of the household arts teachers. A chairman was appointed and 
a request sent to the manual arts department of the association to be allowed recog- 
nition in the association as a group in its department. This request was granted 
and we hope to have a program next November at the annual meeting. 

Domestic Science is part of the regular school work in the public schools of Wash- 
ington, D.C. Work was begun in October, 1886, by two students who were gradu- 
_ *• c • SL\.td from the normal school the previous June and had stud- 

^ . ied all summer with Mrs. Anna L. Woodbury. One teacher 

W Vi* 0+ n r was assigned to the high school and the other to the elementary 
' ' ' schools in one section of the city. So many pupils desired to 
take the work that large classes had to be formed and every hour filled. 

Two years later, a sufficient number of centers having been furnished, the work was 
made a regular part of the instruction given all girls in the seventh and eighth grades. 
Two years later the cooking, which was the only branch of domestic science then 
taught, was taken from the high school course of study, but in iqoi, a manual 
training high school having been organized, a full high school course in domestic 
science was prepared and offered. In 1908 " special " schools were organized for 
those children who for various reasons it was deemed wise to separate from the 
regular classes. It was decided that a full line of industrial work with little academic 
work was best for the development of such children, so the equipment necessary 
to teach the various household occupations as well as many other industrial 
subjects was purchased. 



342 The Journal of Home Ecojwmics [June 

Boys as well as girls are given work along these lines. Progress is being made, 
but it is slow. 

As soon as sufEcient appropriations can be secured it is desired to extend the work 
in the regular schools and to give in connection with the physiology and hygiene of 
the lower grades, such practical household hygiene as can be taught in a school 
room. There are in our schools a certain number of children who for various reasons 
will never advance beyond the sixth grade. These children should have some knowl- 
edge of housekeeping and for this purpose it is hoped some day to secure funds to 
rent and to furnish one or more small houses; then, having these children in small 
groups teach them how to keep house there. Work in the bed room, bathroom, 
sitting room, dining room, kitchen, laundry, cellar and yards, will furnish sufficient 
opportunity to teach sewing, cleaning, marketing, cooking, serving meals, keeping 
household accounts, running fires, gardening, etc. Such experience will help to 
form habits which will do much to improve the homes in certain parts of the city. 

Some of this work is given simply with the idea of having the children learn 
to do things. Other work is to teach them the how and the why of keeping things 
clean. Still another line is for the purpose of teaching what and how to feed people. 
The high school work has for its purpose training for homemaking which requires 
ability to apply the principles of the art and the science already taught. Five cen- 
ters are open at night to adults, and many mothers avail themselves of this oppor- 
tunity to learn what food to provide for their families and how to prepare it. One 
teacher has, at night school, a class of graduate nurses to whom she is giving a 
course in dietetics; another has a class of social workers to whom she is giving work 
which will help them in their house to house instruction in the selection, the prepara- 
tion and the serving of food. — Emma S. Jacobs, Director of Domestic Science. 

The Woman's Educational and Industrial Union, 264 Bolyston Street, Boston, 
is conducting a unique course in salesmanship. This is in charge of a trained teacher 

of domestic art, and is given in cooperation with the large 
A New Field for department stores in Boston. The class is composed of thirty 
Teachers of girls from these stores who attend the school daily except 

Domestic Art. Monday for three months from 8:30 to 11:30 a.m. Mondays 

and afternoons they serve at their own shops. The managers of 
the stores pay these girls a wage of about $6 a week during this term of instructiriri, 
and find it to their advantage to do so, as girls who have had the course sell more goods 
and rise rapidly to good positions. The subjects are most practical. Simple work in 
textiles is given so that an understanding of materials is gained, how they are woven 
and the names, prices and widths of the common ones handled. The origin and 
growth of the fibers is also studied. Lessons in color and design are presented in a 
most fascinating way through the use of ribbons, chiffons and other materials. Busi- 
ness arithmetic and the filling out of sales slips, exchanges blanks, etc., forms an- 
other part of the work. Lectures are given once a \yeek by a woman physician on 
personal hygiene, care of the body, feet, proper clothing, etc. Once a week during 
the three months' demonstration sales arc conducted and the girls take notes on 
good and bad points of the sale. These are given with actual materials and in a 
comparative way so that there is every oiiportunity for the girls to sec a poor and 
good approach to a customer, the pro{)cr courtesy, a pleasant manner of receiving 
goods to be exchanged and methods of meeting other conditions likely to arise in 
shop work. 



1 9 T o] News from the Field 



343 



This course has been very successful and others are beginning to develop in dif- 
ferent cities. The cooperation of the shops seems to be the great essential feature. 
The union has taken this year a few pupils for normal work in this department of 
salesmanship. 

According to a recent communication from Miss Alba Bates of the Academy of 
Idaho, "Idaho is taking the lead in introducing domestic science and arts into rural 
schools. Our state normals are planning to make practical 
Domestic Science ^^"^^^'°^ ^ ^^^"^S feature of the normal training course, 
Work in Idaho ^^'^^ident George H. Black of the Lewiston Normal is offer- 
ing a course for the coming year in rural arts which includes 
that part of domestic science, domestic art, and manual train- 
ing particularly adapted to such needs of the rural community as can be reached 
through the rural schools. For this work a new building has just been completed 
and will be supplied with the best possible equipment to bring about results which 
will mean much in the future of the rural school system of Idaho. 

"The State Academy meets the need of those students, from rural communities 
and small towns so numerous in a new state, who do not have high school privileges. 

"Rural high schools and centralized rural schools are being established through- 
out the state and in a very short time the course in agriculture and domestic science 
will be a strong feature of the work in these schools." 

The Dewey decimal classification, in general use among libraries, in its 1910 
revised edition, gives the following outline for household administration: 

647 Holisehold organization and administration. Institu- 
Library Classifi- tional management. 

cation of House- .1 Household accounts, finance, cost. 

hold Administra- See also Bookkeeping 657. 

t^o^' -2 Manager, superintendent, housekeeper, steward, 

dietitian. 
See also 640.8. 
. 3 Regular employees or assistants. 

Uniforms. Employment bureaus. 
For ethical consideration, see 173.8. 
As part of Political Economy, see 331. 
.32 Male help. 
.33 Female help. 
.34 Foreign help. 

Orientals, negroes, etc. Races and nationalities. 
.4 Indoor help. 

Cook, butler, waitress, parlormaid, lady's maid, chambermaid, nurse, 
laimdress, furnaceman, etc. 
For housekeeper, steward, etc., see 697.2. 
.5 Outdoor help. 

Coachman, gardener, laborers. 
.6 Occasional employees. 

Emergency help, household register. 
. 7 Wages, hours, duties. 
48 Sanitary precautions. Laundry. Cleaning (subdivisons follow). 



344 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The Home Economics Association of Greater New York is printing a bibliography 
of periodicals to be issued quarterly. The February bibliography is just out and 
covers such topics as Dietetics and Nutrition, Fermentation 
Quarterly Bibliog- and Enzyms, Food, Sanitation, Textiles, and Houses and House 
raphy of Home Furnishings. Under Miscellaneous are articles on The Fly, 
Economics. Uses of Cotton Seed, Indian Blankets, Baskets and Bowls, Peat 

as a Fuel, etc. There are one hundred and fifty-three articles 
listed. The bibliography is in the hands of the committee on current literature, 
of which the chairman is Miss Ruth Wheeler, 305 Montgomery Street, West 
Pittston, Pa. 

Single copies of the bibliography are sold for ten cents, or for the year the four 
copies may be had at twenty-five cents, payable in advance. Orders may be placed 
with Dr. B. R. Andrews, 525 West 120th Street, New York City. 

This organization is to meet at Brussels, under the patronage of the Belgian 
Government, October 4-8. Its business will be conducted in seven sections, viz., 
biological physics and energetics; physiology and physiological 
Second Interna- chemistry; hygiene of nutrition, bacteriology andparisitology; 
tional Congress composition, analysis and adulteration of foods and dairy 
of Alimentary products; potable waters; legislation, food inspection and con- 

Hygiene and of trol; and work of a popular character regarding rational feed- 
the Rational Feed- ing and ahmentary hygiene. For the last section, which is 
ing of Man. of particular interest to Home Economics workers the follow- 

ing questions have been submitted for discussion : 

1. The working man's food: What is it? Its price in large centers. What is 
its nutritive value? 

2. International organization of fisheries as a means of obtaining food at low 
prices. 

3. Is the preservation of meat by refrigeration advantageous? What is the best 
means of preserving meat? What is the best organization of slaughter houses? 

4. Desirability of studying the changes of diet that certain classes of working 
men undergo when leaving one condition in one country for another, socially and 
physically (moving from the coimtry to the towns; emigration from one country to 
another, etc.). 

5 . The classification of professions as regards outlay of energy ; should it be revis- 
ed especially as regards the working man? Food of working men not only in regard 
to expenditure of physical strength, but also in regard to their intellectual work. 

6. Food law administration; cooperative societies of consumers; the food baker- 
ies, restaurants, their conduct, their social importance; services rendered to hygiene. 

In what manner should the public authorities exercise control over the above 
institutions and in what cases should they be encouraged? 

7. The teaching of alimentary hygiene and rational feeding in schools, and 
especially in large cities; the teaching of alimentary hygiene and rational feeding 
in other places than schools. 

8. Food aid for children and old people. 

The membership fee is twenty francs ($4), which may be paid to the American 
representative of the Congress, Dr. H. W. Wiley, Bureau of Chemistry, U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, from whom additional information 
may be obtained. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Elementary Domestic Science: Food and Cookery. Sarah Windle Landes 
1909. Pp. 149- Guthrie, Okla., Leader Printing Co. Price $0.50. 
This handbook, which constitutes Part i of a school text-book on elementary 
domestic science, has been prepared chiefly to fit the needs of the upper elementary 
grades. One of its special aims is to correlate the subject of domestic science with 
the remainder of the curriculum,notably geography,agriculture and nature study and 
history. It ,s divided into three sections, viz: Food, Cookery, and Elemeniary 
Chemical and Physical Experiments with Food Materials, and the arrangement is 
such that schools without equipment may use merely the first section, and those 
possessing chemical apparatus but no kitchen may take up sections i and 3. A large 
number of menus and recipes, a series of simple experiments, and a list of publi- 
cations useful for reference, are included. 

Housekeeping for Two. Alice L. James. New York and London: G. P. 
Putnam's Sons, 1909. Pp. vii-f-426. 

Furmshing the home, laundry work, marketing, cleaning, care of furniture, social 
life, and similar questions are discussed in this volume, which is designed for those 
who are beginmng housekeeping. 

In some of the sections recipes are included and the volume is provided with an 
index. 

Newer Methods of House Disinfection. G. Sobernheim. Arch. Volkswohl- 
fahrt, 2 (1909), no. 12, pp. 708-717, figs. 6; 3 (1909), no. i, pp. 12-14. 

A summary of data regarding methods of house disinfection. The introduction 
of formaldehyde, the author concludes, has marked a great advance in household 
disinfection. 

Preserve Labels. Misses Cheney and Camcchael, Artcraft Shop, Auditorium 
Building, Minneapolis, Minn. 

This is a booklet of 400 adhesive labels arranged in perforated sheets Uke stamps 
and bound in an artistic cover. There are perhaps twenty different labels ready for 
the canning season. 

The Dust Nuisance and Ways of Lessening It. D. Layriz. Die Staubplage 
und ihre Bekampfung. Munich, 1908; rev. in Arch. Volkswohlfahrt 2 
{1909), no. 6, p. 396. ' 

A summary of data on the street dust problem. 

34s 



346 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Hygienic Significance of Sulphur in Gas. F. E. Gallagher. Jour. Itidust. 
and Engin. Chem., i (1909), No. 9, pp. 656, 657. 
According to this paper the S02 contents of gas lighted rooms is wholly neglible 
as regards comfort or health. In a case where the air of the room changed 1.8 times 
per hour with doors and windows sealed, one man actively exercising had about the 
same effect as gas burning at the rate of five feet per hour. 

The Influence of Muscular and Mental Work on Metabolism and the Effi- 
ciency of the Human Body as a Machine. Francis G. Benedict and 
Thorne M. Carpenter. U. S. Dept. Agriculture, Office of Experiment 
Stations, Bui. 208, 1909, pp. 100, figs. 3. 
In this monograph the first 44 pages are devoted to a discussion and details of ex- 
periments on "muscular work and body efficiency." Experiments were made with 
a number of different individuals while riding a special form of bicycle ergometer 
inside the respiration calorimeter then at Wesleyan University. With a professional 
bicycle rider the mechanical efficiency of man was found to be about 21 per cent. 
The resting energy output of 92 calories per hour was raised dvuring very severe work 
to over 600 calories per hour of which 112 calories were transformed into muscular 
work. 

A study of "the influence of mental work on metabolism" was also made upon 
twenty-two men, who were taking the customary college mid-winter examination. 
The men spent three hours inside the respiration chamber, during which time the 
water vaporized, oxygen consimied and carbon dioxide and heat produced were 
carefully measured. Compared with control experiments on the same individuals, 
the authors found that mental effort has no positive influehce on metabolic activity 
— Victor C. Myers, M.D. 

House Decoration. Dorothy Tuke Priestman. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 
Publishing Co., 1909, pp. 208. Illustrated. 
The treatment of walls, the selection of furniture and floor coverings, the kitchen, 
the bathroom, home carpentry, and other related topics are taken up in this volume 
which as a whole is a useful handbook for the general reader. 

Dorothy Brooke's School Days. Frances C. Sparhark. Pp.368. Price $1.50. 
Illustrations by F. T.Merrill. New York: Thomas Crowell and Company. 
Any lively girl will enjoy this story of stirring episodes in boarding school life. 
The heroine is the kind of leader whose energies it is necessary to enlist to make any 
new departure succeed in a school. The reading of a story of this type might be 
helpful to many teachers of domestic science. Often special teachers are too en- 
grossed in their subject sufficiently to consider the point of view of the student. 
— Anna Barrows 

Town Planning and Modern Architecture at the Hampstead Garden Suburb. 

T. F. and R. Unwin and M. H. B. Scott. London and Lcipsic, 1909, pp. 

98, pi. I, figs. 121. 
This volume contains detailed plans for the laying out of a city suburb in a con- 
venient manner, in such a way as to insure light and air and preserve a park-like 
character. 



igio] Books and Literature 347 

Plans are given for a large number of heuses and the volumes as a whole is a con- 
tribution to domestic architecture, house furnishing, and related questions. 

Euthenics. Mrs. E. H. Richards. 

Whitcomb and Barrows expect to publish in June Mrs. Richards' book on this 
subject. We quote a paragraph which will give a hint of its purpose : 

Euthenics has been chosen to express man's power over his immediate environ- 
ment. It is a gospel of hope, of courage. It disregards the foe in the distant valleys 

and sets us at work on our own door yards We have come to the 

word which we must bind as a phylactery on our foreheads and as an amulet on our 
arms — "Responsibility." It is a longer word and suits the times. Oxa forefathers 
called it duty. We have forgotten the sound and the meaning of that word. Let 
us not revive it, but take the more expressive term of inter-relations, inter-actions, 
as more indicative of the time. Responsible we must be, if there is to be govern- 
ment, community hfe, race progress. 

Household Arts Review. Teachers College, Columbia University, New 
York City. 

The April number of this magazine, published three times a year by the House- 
hold Arts Club of Teachers College, contains some sixty pages of articles, many of 
them of distinct value to the student of Home Economics. Among the most import- 
ant are the following: Industrial Education and Economic Evolution; The Social 
Services of the District Nurse; The Campaign for Clean Milk in New York City; 
The Teaching of Household Arts in Rural Schools; Household Science Course; 
Organization and Management of Dressmaking Establishments by College Women; 
Housewifery as a Branch of Sanitation; A Visit to the Public School on Barren 
Island. — B. R. Andrews. 

Canadian Government Annuities, Comfort and Happiness in Old Age. S. T. 
B.ASTEDO, Superintendent, Ottawa, Ontario, pp. 30. 
This pamphlet outlines a system of annuities administered by the Canadian Govern- 
ment whic'n forms a sane and commendable attempt to provide universal insurance 
for old age. The Home Economics movement must undertake an educational prop- 
aganda for thrift and the financial independence of the individual family, and 
this Canadian booklet is a welcome addition to our scanty literature on the subject. 

A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SCHOOL LUX( :;ES 

Nutrition Processes During the Growth of the Child. M. Rubner. {Arch. Hyg. 
66 (1908), Nos. 1-2, p. 81.) 

Dietar}' Studies in Orphan Asylums. Emma Smedley, R. D. Milner, H. L. 
Knight and C. F. Langworthy, In "Dietary Studies in Public Institutions." 
{U. S. Dept. Agr. Office Experiment Slas. Bull. 223.) 

Applied Domestic Science, Daily Meals for the School Year, and a Dietary Study 
for October. (Institute for Colored Youth (Teachers' Training School) Cheyney, 
Pa., 1909, pp. 48.) 

The Feeding of Infants and Children in Health. G. A. Sutherland in "A System 
of Diet and Dietetics," London (1908), pp. 743-799. 



348 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Diet and the Diseases of Children, G. A. Sutherland in "A System of Diet 
and Dietetics," London (1908), pp. 803-850. 

Der Stoffwechsel des Kindes von dcr Geburt bis zur Beendigung des Wachstums. 
Tubingen, 1896. 

Die Verdauungsarbeit, ihre Grosse und ihr Einfluss auf den Stoffwechsel, insbes, 
den Stoffwechsel des Sauglings. 1900. Reprinted from Jahrb. Kinderheilk., n. ser. 
51 (1900), p. 26. 

Zur Physiologie des Sauglingsalters. Berlin, 1902. Reprinted from Jahrb. 
Kinderheilk., n. ser., 56 (1902), p. 543. 

Die korperliche Entwicklung, die Ernahrung und Pflege des Kindes. Stuttgart. 
1902. 

School and Other Lvmches. (Phil. Press, Oct. 12, 1909.) A commentary on the 
dietary work at the Teachers' Training School, and data regarding the appropria- 
tion of $3000 by the Philadelphia Board of Education to test in three schools the 
practicabilit}'- of furnishing three-cent luncheons. 

The School Lunch-Room. Maude Parsons. (Illinois Farmers' Inst. Bui. 14, pp. 
140). Also data regarding the school lunch work in Rockford, 111. school lunch- 
eons. (Survey, 23 (1909), No. 11, pp. 350, 351). 

Penny Luncheons. Alice C. Boughton. (Psych. Clin. 3 (1910), No. 8, pp. 228- 
231, fig. I.) 

Home Science at Bozeman. (Dakota Farmer, 30 (1910), No. i, pp. 49, 50, figs. 
7.) Contains data on lunches prepared for sale as part of the Home Economics 
work. 

The School Child's Breakfast, W. C. Hollopeter. (Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 
53 (1909), No. 21, pp. 1727-1730.) 

Penny Lunches. H. H. Bonnell, (Starr Centre Soc. [Rpt.] 1909, pp. 18-20, 

fig. I.) 

The Feeding of School Children. R. Crowley. (Pub., Health [London], 23 (1909) 
No. 3, p. loi.) 

School Canteens in Paris. L. Butte. (Rev. Soc. Set. Hyg. Aliment., 5 (1908) 
No. 3, pp. 573-616.) 

Free Noonday Meals for Needy Children. C. Driessens. (Rer. Soc. Set. Hyg. 
Aliment., 5 (1908), No. 3, pp. 672, 673.) 

The Theory of Nutrition after Completion of Growth. M. Rubner. (Arch. Hyg , 
66 (1908), No. 1-2, p. I.) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. II OCTOBER. 19 lo No. 4 

EDITORIAL BOARD FOR 1910. 

EDITOR— Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 
ASSOCIATE editors- 
Education, Miss Helen Kinne, Teachers College, New York City. 

Extension, Miss Anna Barrows. 98 Gainsboro St., Boston, Mass. 

Food and Nutrition, Dr. C. F. Langwortiiy, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. 

Textiles and Clothing, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, Wis. 

The House, Miss Isabel Bevter, University of Illinois, Urbana. 

Administration, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, New York. 

The Family, Dr. Thomas D. Wood Teachers College, New York City. 

Affill\ted Societies — Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University. 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

October, 1910 

Report of the Boston Meeting of the Educational Section of the Association 349 
Domestic Art as Discussed at a Recent Meeting of the Household Arts Sec- 
tion of the National Education Association, .\nna M. Cooley 354 

Suggestions for Teaching Drafting in the First or Second Year of the High 

School, Ruth A. Wilmot 359 

A Lesson in Dressmaking, Annie L. Bennett 361 

The Teaching of Millinery, Clara S. Gay 363 

Teaching Design to Trade Classes, Grace W. Ripley 366 

Practical Methods in a Household Arts Lesson, Emma S. Jacobs 369 

Domestic Art: Its Content and Possibilities, Anna K. FHnt 373 

How to Make the Household .A.rts Effective in the School and Community, 

Ednah A. Rich 377 

The Teaching of ^lethods of Housewifery in Secondary Schools, S. Maria 

Elliott 379 

The "House Course," University High School, Chicago, Jenny H. Snow. . . . 384 
The Teaching of Household Furnishing and Decoration, Mrs. ]Mary E. Wil- 
liams •. . . . 387 

The Relation of Fine Art to Domestic Art, Elizabeth Stone 390 

Physiology and Courses in Home Economics, P. G. Stiles 393 

Chemistry for Students of Home Economics, James F. Norris 397 

Courses in Home Economics as Related to the Department of Agriculture 

Work, Juanita L. Shepperd 403 

The Amount of Edible ]\Ieat in the Various Cuts, Flora Hartley Greene. . . , 413 

Third Graduate School of Home Economics 425 

Sectional Conference on Household and Institutional ^Management 429 

Home Economics at the General Federation of Women's Clubs 431 

Editorials 432 

News from Institutions 435 

Notes from the Field 447 

Books and Literature 449 

Index to \"olume 1 455 



THE 

Journal^/^Home Economics 

Vol. II. OCTOBER, 1910 No. 4 



THE BOSTON MEETING OF THE EDUCATION SECTION 
OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

The Boston meeting of this section was called to order by Miss 
Helen Kinne, Chairman, at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology, at 2 p.m., Tuesday, July 5, 1910, with about 275 in attend- 
ance. 

In her introductory remarks Miss Kinne spoke of the pleasure 
felt by all in having the president of the Association, Mrs. E. H. 
Richards, in attendance. She then announced as the subject of the 
meeting, the methods of teaching, stating that this was perhaps the 
first occasion on which members had limited themselves to this 
topic, and also the first opportunity for deliberate discussion of the 
"special method ' in a given lesson. This subject had been decided 
upon because of the wide-spread demand for it. " What we want is to 
see how the great principles of teaching apply in our work, for teaching 
to be alive must grow " 

The following address of welcome was then given by Mrs. Richards : 

Twenty-five years of endeavor to secure a hearing and a place in 
the curriculum for household arts have just been completed. Special 
schools, special teachers have been working to accomplish this, with 
what success may be judged by the following prospectus, recently 
issued : 

"Domestic Science: A Course of Lessons for Elementary Schools. 
"This book, prepared to meet the needs of a course in domestic science, can be 
read and studied with profit in every household. The author has been careful 

349 



350 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

to make the lessons suitable for public, private and rural schools. Teachers with 
absolutely no knowledge of domestic science can teach the lessons by reading them 
over carefully and performing the work as directed. 

"The lessons consist of two years' work, fifty-eight lessons in all. The author 
has herself taught all of the lessons contained in the book, and the work, as a 
whole, embodies results obtained through several years of successful experience. 

"Domestic science in elementary schools should not require an expensive appara- 
tus, and thus create a wrong impression among parents and operate to the dis- 
advantage of the work. The money often spent on the salary of a special teacher 
of cooking will equip a school shop and a school kitchen, and with the full direc- 
tions given in this book there is no more reason why there should be a special 
teacher in domestic science in the elementary school than in any other subject." 

When a subject becomes so fixed that it may be embodied in print 
it is an accepted fact. Perhaps we should now sit back with folded 
hands — hut is the work done? Could a living, growing science ever 
be so crystallized as to dispense with the living, growing teacher who 
is not afraid to say she was mistaken or that her science of yesterday 
has been superseded by the discovery of today. We had just learned 
to sweep when the vacuum cleaner made it unnecessary. 

It is true that the leaders have been struggling to express they 
knew not what. The early movements were due to philanthropists 
who saw the effects of ignorance but not the causes. Most vigorous 
efforts have been made to teach the knowledge of past generations to the 
coming one but these have not produced results commensurate with 
the effort because of rapidly changing conditions. School and settle- 
ment methods have been largely of this nature. A dim feeling of 
their futility has kept the leading educators on the defensive until 
now. 

Through various agencies here a little and there a little, the science 
applications are beginning to be recognized. At last it is seen that in 
a scientific age the daily Ufe of the people may be improved by appro- 
priation of invention and discovery — but the movement is even yet in 
a plastic state. 

No set rules can be laid down, no hard and fast lines drawn. With 
the very new movement of first year science domestic economy must 
ally itself. It should contribute freely to the subject matter to be con- 
sidered. For that more research is demanded, more exact illustrations 
of scientific application furnished, gathered from the actual doing 
untrammeled by past tradition. We cannot repeat that too often. The 
very essence of science is plasticity, quick adaptation to new theories, 
the progress in arts due to adoption of the most efficient processes even 



igio] Boston Meeting of the Education Section 351 

if it means discarding the heirlooms of the past. The home and the 
household have been the fortress of tradition and stability — shall we 
risk levelling these walls? The fear that the mellow fruit of centuries 
will be sacrificed is what has held back the hand of the iconoclast. 
What would happen if home life became scientific? The results of the 
close shutting down of the hatches has been the breeding of festering 
discontent, the escape by illegitimate ways until even the most con- 
servative hav2 grudgingly yielded the point. If home life is to be saved, 
if the old time virtues are to be perpetuated, new forms must be found 
suitable for the time. Furthermore, all but the most bigoted recognize 
that the school of today must furnish the home of tomorrow with 
its weapons of defense. But the school of today must be in line 
with the scientific spirit of today, ever searching for the better way, 
ever trying the newest suggestion but discarding as quickly that 
which is not proving itself. 

For the next few years therefore let us not crystallize our work or 
our plans into unalterable forms, but keep ever ready to take the next 
step, whether it be forward or to one side. No mountain peak is as- 
cended straight up. Up hill and down hill the path leads before the 
top is reached. The right solution of the problem of keeping a happy, 
healthy home will come at last. 

A paper was then presented by Miss Emma S. Jacobs of Washing- 
ton, D. C, on A Practical Method of Teaching Household Arts in the 
Elementary Schools. Miss Jacobs took for an example the making of 
a fire, using a little glass model of a stove to make it quite clear. A 
paper on The Teaching of Household Furnishing and Decoration by 
Mrs. Mary E. Williams of New York City, was read by Miss Agnes 
Daley. The paper was accompanied by a most interesting exhibit. 
Miss Ednah A. Rich of California discussed How to make the House- 
hold Arts Efi!ective in School and Community. These three papers 
may be found on subsequent pages of the Joubnai. 

Papers followed on The Improvement of the Public Health through 
Teaching of Hygiene in the Elementary School, by Miss Frances 
Stearn of Boston, one by Mrs. Ethel Fifield Brooks of New York 
City entitled A Lesson in House Construction, one by Mrs. Alice P. 
Norton and Miss Jessie P. Rich entitled A Lesson in Cookery in the 
Elementary School, and one on Our Penny Lunch Problem and How 
we Solve it, by Miss Emeline E. Torrey. Mr. E. C. Bishop, state 
superintendent of education of Nebraska then said a few words as to 



352 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

how "they interested the boys in agriculture through corn raising and 
the gir's in the use of corn products through corn cake," thereby 
making tremendous strides in interesting the children of the whole 
state. 

A second meeting of the section was held on the following afternoon, 
in two sections, Mrs. Richards presiding over Section A, Textiles, and 
Miss Kinne over Section B, Foods and Sanitation. An over-flow meet- 
ing of Section B, at which the papers of that Section were repeated was 
also necessary, Miss Emma Jacobs presiding at this meeting. About 
400 were in attendance at the various meetings. 

In Section A the papers were as follows: Economy of Time in Tech- 
nical Work, by Mrs. Blanche Hyde of Newton, Mass.; A Lesson in 
Dressmaking, by Miss Annie L. Bennett of the Practical Arts High 
School, Boston; The Teaching of Millinery, by Miss Clara S. Gay, of 
the same school; and the Teaching of Design to Trade Classes, by 
Miss Grace W. Ripley, of the Girls Trade School, Boston. These 
papers are printed elsewhere in this issue. 

In Section B the following papers were presented: How to Apply 
Laboratory Methods to the Study of Practical Cooking, by Miss Car- 
lotta C. Greer, Cleveland Technical School; How to Teach the Pre- 
paration of Meals, by Miss Florence Willard of New York City; How 
to Use the 100 — Caloric Portion in Dietary Teaching, by Miss Mabel 
Wellman of Chicago; Subject Matter in a Course on Foods for College 
Entrance, by Miss Lillie C. Smith, of Brookline, Mass.; and Methods 
in Housewifery, by Miss S. Maria Elliott, of Simmons College (re- 
printed in this issue). Mr. Hollis Godfrey also said a few words on 
Motherhood and the City, as studied and treated by the Garland 
School. 

A resolution of approval was passed by the meeting on efforts look- 
ing toward the articulation of high school and college work. After 
some discussion as to the point valuation for the household arts work 
the meeting adjourned about 4 p.m. 

The following resolution was submitted for action: 

(i) Whereas, the American Home Economics Association strongly feels the 
necessity for extending and intensifying the courses in household science and art 
in our high schools, and, 

(2) Whereas, thorough instruction in such courses would require more time 
from the students than can be given to electives, by girls taking courses prepara- 
tory to college, and, 

(3) Whereas, we believe that most girls of the high school will derive more 
value from household science and art, free-hand design, or household chemistry, 



iQio] Boston Meeting of the Education Section 



353 



than from the compulsory study of two foreign languages in addition to 
English, 

Be it therefore resolved, that it is the belief of the educational section of the 
American Home Economics Association that the colleges would advance the 
interests of our girls by the modihcation of their entrance requirements so as to 
require only one foreign language for admission, and to credit the following sub- 
jects: 

Household Science and Art 2 units 

Household Chemistry j uj^jj. 

Free-hand Drawing ^ to i unit 

M"S'c lunit. 

An exhibit of illustrative material relative to the papers given 
formed an interesting feature of the meetings. 

A very enjoyable occasion was the School Garden Luncheon given 
to Hon. W. M. Hays, Assistant Secretary of the U. S. Department 
of Agriculture, by the National Scciety fcr the Promotion of Agri- 
cultural Education and by the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion. 

Contributions were received from school gardens Hterally from 
Maine to CaUfornia. .South Carolina, Texas, and Oklahoma vied 
with Massachusetts and Pennsylvania in fruits and flowers. 

The additions to the lettuce, peas, potatoes, radishes, etc. were 
prepared at the Laboratory Kitchen and other sanitary eating places. 
The work of preparation was in charge of Miss Anna Barrows and 
Miss E. E. Shaw of the School Garden Magazine aided by an efficient 
corps of workers, including Miss Frances Stern of the Lcuisa Alcott 
Club, Mrs. Anna Gilchrist, Mrs. Bertha June Lucas, Mrs. Chas. A. 
French and several others. 

Domesric science students served the lunch, speeches were made, 
and the 75 guests voted the luncheon a great success. 

During the week about 175 persons registered at the Associarion 
headquarters, and 19 new members were enrolled. 



DOMESTIC ART AS DISCUSSED AT THE RECENT MEET- 
INGS OF THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS SECTION OF 
THE NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION. 

Anna M. Cooley. 

Teachers' College, Columbia University. 

Domestic art as a part of household arts has been somewhat slower 
in its development than the so-called domestic science subjects. This has 
been largely because its subject matter has been rather intangible 
and unclassified and because people have undertaken to present the 
subject who have known little about the technique and have had 
little appreciation of the thought content of the subject. 

The importance of this field of household arts, especially in relation 
to future vocational development in various types of secondary 
schools, was realized and discussed at the recent household arts meet- 
ings of the National Education Association. The papers read were 
interesting and thought arousing and drew attention to the fact that 
in order to accomplish definite, lasting results of utilitarian value in 
this field attention m.ust be given to a more logical and systematic 
method of presenting the subjects. 

It is not sufficient to teach the girl to draft one shirtwaist or make 
one hat or dress; she should be tought these opera 'ions in such a way 
that she may realize the reasons for the various steps and processes. 
While this method is perhaps a trifle slower, it fully repays because 
of the greater gain in the long run, for the girl will be able to de\'ise, 
to create, to work with initiative; there is less danger of exploiting 
her and she obtains correct ideas more easily with less expenditure 
of energy and with greater economy of time. This fact is clearly 
emphasized in the following papers by Miss Wilmot and Miss 
Bennett. 

Miss Wilmot would have the girl gain a clear idea of the reasons 
why certain lines are necessary in making a pattern, and before any 
drafting is attempted would develop in a logical and systematic way 
the relation of these lines to the human figure. The girl is thus made 
able to see the reasons for the lines of the draft and not only accom- 



354 



iQio] Domestic Art at National Education Association 355 

plishes it with ease but is able to change and readjust it to suit the 
variations of the human form or to adapt it to the current style In 
other words, she becomes a thinking individual instead of an automa- 
ton. 

Miss Bennett also emphasi2es the point of training the girl and 
developing onginahty and creative power. The lessons in millinery 
and in design as adapted to trade teaching of which she speaks show 
the necessity of keeping in mind the particular type of school and of 
so adapting work to it as to obtain the best results. 

The papers read more especially concerned domestic art in differ- 
ent types of secondary schools-the trade, technical and practical 
arts high schools. The questions of subject matter and method for 
each of these types suggest a great field for discussion in later num- 
bers of the Journal. Perhaps a few general suggestions in relation 
to methods and devices for class-room management in domestic art 
may serve as an introduction to this field of thought and lead later to 
a discussion of more definite problems and devices for specific lines of 
work. 

During the past few years, students of general pedagogy and prac- 
tice have been turning their attention to the instruction and class- 
room management by teachers of special subjects. Perhaps none have 
been more severely criticised than the instructors of household arts 
When one analyzes the cause for this criticism it seems to be due prin- 
cipally to the unsystematic handling of materials and the great lack 
of economy of time in relation to presentation of lessons. The teacher 
of sewing or dressmaking should guard against these dangers, for her 
subjects offer excellent opportunity for the pupils to "dawdle." For 
instance, a high school pupil of average ability should be able to make ' 
a simple shirtwaist in twelve hours. If, as sometimes happens, twenty- 
five are spent on this single garment, something is radicaUy wrong in 
class-room management and practice. 

"A place for everything and everything in its place," is a very good 
general rule with which to start. The workbags or boxes of the chil- 
dren should be carefully labeUed and if possible kept in a conveniently 
located place. Extra supplies and materials should be so classified 
and labelled that they may be found with ease. A system of noting 
when supplies are low will guard against a general skirmishing about 
at the eleventh hour for a particular kind of machine needle or a cer- 
tain number of thread and the consequent loss of time involved. 
If the teacher has a special room for her work, she should have the 



3s6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

supplies most often used and such materials as she may need for dem- 
onstration conveniently at hand. If as supervisor she must travel 
from room to room in the school, a box for her use may be kept in each 
room, or one supplied with the few things she is most likely to need 
carried from class to class. A piece of coarse scrim (i8 x 36 in.), or 
even unbleached muslin, with a large carpet needle and a ball of red 
Germantown yarn will be found an indispensable addition to this box 
for the quick demonstration of the method of making stitches. This 
cloth may be mounted in frames for such purposes or easily adjusted 
with thumb tacks to the wooden frame of a wall map and the height 
thus regulated for the use of the children as well as the teacher. In 
demonstrating on this cloth, the stitches should be very large so that 
the children at the back of the room may have no difficulty in seeing. 
Class demonstrations in dressmaldng and millinery are great time- 
savers. With this help the teacher is spared the necessity of giving so 
much individual attention later and time is thus gained for other 
work. 

In the presentation of lessons there are several points which, if kept 
in mind in planning work, will conduce to economy of time. 

(i) A general outline of the entire series of lessons on a particular 
subject such as sliirtwaists or nightdresses, if prepared before start- 
ing that subject, will keep before the teacher the subject matter which 
she wishes to introduce during that course of lessons. This aids her 
in proportioning her work carefully as she proceeds, and if supple- 
mentary discussions are to be introduced these may be so fitted into 
the general scheme as to produce the best results and with less danger 
of being entirely omitted. 

(2) Some kind of plan for the lesson of the day is a necessity and 
a time-saver. It should be carefully prepared. Young teachers will 
find this worth while and a great aid in self-criticism of work. 

(3) The aim of the lesson of the hour should be clearly and defi- 
nitely stated so that each pupil may know how to proceed and what 
she is expected to accomplish. 

(4) The questions asked during the presentation of the lesson 
should be clear, definite, logical, and thought arousing. 

(5) The lesson should be well illustrated by means of the demon- 
stration cloth, blackboard and finished articles of work, as well as by 
verbal descriptions and illustrations. It is wise to use as many meth- 
ods as possible in illustrating, for this, too, will save time later. 

(6) The *eacher should be sure that the subject matter is adapted 



lyio] Domestic Art at National Education Association 357 

to the particular class. Time is often wasted by presenting material 
for which the class is not yet prepared. 

(7) Opportunity should be given in every lesson for the pupils to 
express themselves but the teacher should guard agoinst digression. 
Needless talking and wandering from the subject of the day consumes 
valuable time. 

(8) After the presentation of the lesson of the day, the work-boxes 
and materials may be distributed. Much time and trouble are saved if 
this distribution takes place after such presentation rather than before, 
as the pupils will then have their attention centered on the teacher and 
the lesson and not on the work in the boxes. Some systematic method 
of distribution should be devised as a time-saver. In a class-room with 
rows of desks this may be done by having a helper for each row, or 
in a special room the distribution may fall to two or three pupils. 

Where equipment is limited, time is often wasted because of poor 
management. This is especially true in classes where cutting and 
machine work must be done in limited space and with few tables and 
machines. A teacher can so plan her lessons that a certain proportion 
of the class is perhaps basting or gathering while others are using the 
machines. In the same way the tables for cutting may be used by 
some while others are writing up notes, preparing ruffles, etc., until 
the time comes for exchanging places. 

Much time is wasted by needless pinning preparatory to cutting. 
If the pinning of patterns in place and the quick method of cutting 
are demonstrated by the teacher, there will be a great saving of time. 
Children and older pupils often "putter" because of the lack of a 
clear mental picture of how to proceed quickly. 

In many classes a needless amount of basting is demanded, especi- 
ally in the making of simple underwear. In many cases if the long 
straight breadths are pinned carefully, basting is unnecessary and 
stitching can be begun at once. This does not necessarily mean poor 
work; a certain amount of skill should be developed. 

Pupils should not be permitted to remain idle after they have accom- 
plished the work of the day; the teacher should provide extra prob- 
lems for those who work rapidly. 

A bulletin board may assist in saving time and be made of great 
value in the special sewing room. This can be kept in order by the 
pupils. On this board topics of the day of interest to the class, pic- 
tures, etc., may be posted and if of sufficient worth, these may be filed 
and used for future reference. 



358 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The suggestions for economy of time in relation to sewing are prac- 
ticable also in millinery and embroidery classes. 

As a stitch in time saves time, so foresight on the part of the teacher 
of domestic art, as regards material and planning of work saves the 
time and energy which is otherwise dissipated through the necessity for 
much individual attention. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHING DRAFTING IN THE 
FIRST OR SECOND YEAR OF THE HIGH SCHOOL 

Ruth A. Wilmot. 
Instructor of Dressmaking, Pratt Institute. 

There has been a great deal said by domestic art teachers both for 
and against the teaching of drafting in the high school. 

It has been argued that there are patterns in the market sold at 
such a low price that it is a waste of time to draft, especially so as stu- 
dents after leaving schools will be more likely to buy than to draft the 
patterns which they need. It is also argued that drafting is too com- 
plicated to be really understood by high school students, and that it 
takes up too much time in a course where every minute must be made 
to count for the most possible. If the teaching of drafting is to be 
mere dictation and the result to be only a pattern, these are arguments 
of great weight; but if drafting means not only the production of a 
pattern, but also a thorough understanding of the construction of 
patterns, the relation of the lines of a pattern to the lines of the fig- 
ure, and the relation of measures to the construction of a pattern and 
a garment, then the question is more doubtful. 

Drafting, then, may mean the merely mechanical production of a 
pattern, or it may mean a great deal more. The amount of good 
which the students are to gain from an exercise in drafting depends 
largely upon the methods the teacher uses in presenting the draft. 

Let us take for example the shirtwaist draft and see how it can best 
be presented. I choose the shirtwaist draft for it can be made to an- 
swer the purpose of corsetcover, chemise, amd nightgown patterns. 
The teacher should show the students the marking off in chalk on a 
bust form of the principal lines of a waist pattern, waist line, neck line, 
center front and center back, etc. In each new step the students 
should take the corresponding measures on each other. Each step 
should be accompanied by discussion and explanation, such, for in- 
stance, as that the shoulder seam if just on top of the shoulder makes 
g person appear round shouldered, or that the placing of the under 
arm seam slightly toward the back makes the waist look slender, etc. 



359 



360 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

When, one by one, these steps have all been taken the first essential 
in fitting, the proper placing of the lines and seams, is learned. 

Then comes the rough modeling on the form in cambric or tissue 
paper. This cambric pattern laid on the table familiarizes the student 
with the appearance of the draft. 

The teacher is now ready to take up the draft itself. It will be of 
great assistance to her if shewill make beforehand a model of red cam- 
bric on which is laid in white cambric the pattern as it is placed in the 
draft with the construction lines ruled in heavy black with a wax pen- 
cil. The teacher can refer to this as each line of the draft is put in so 
that the students may follow the process. 

With this amount of preparation, the draft may be given by dic- 
tation, for the student b)' this time should have such a clear idea of 
what she is working toward that she will be able to follow intelligently 
the instructions of the teacher. 

The teacher should draft on the board with the students as she gives 
dictation. It will be found of great help in so doing for her to put in 
the construction lines of the draft with white chalk and the pattern 
lines with red. This causes less confusion as it makes the pattern 
stand out plainly from the construction lines. 

In this way drafting becomes much more than a mere mechanical 
process which has no value or meaning beyond the production of a 
pattern. The students should have as a result of this work a clear 
knowledge (i) of the relation of lines to the figure; (2) the proper method 
of taking measures and the relation of these measures to a pattern; 
(3) the place where the lines of a shirtwaist should fall; and (4) the 
grain of the material on which a shirtwaist should be cut. They will 
also have had practice in fitting and draping, and will possess a waist 
pattern drafted to their own measures. 



A LESSON IN DRESSMAKING. 

Annie L. Bennett. 
Practical Arts High School, Boston, Mass. 

"Industrial education is a fad. Brains do not count in these days 
with either teachers or pupils; hand skill is all that is looked for in 
the one or aimed at ^vith the other." Such was the remark of a 
prominent educator, just after the organization of the Practical 
Arts High School. 

Is industrial education merely hand training? Is the successful 
teacher of manual work one with less mental ability than her fellow 
workers in academic branches? Are the successful hand workers in 
the world today men and women of merely mechanical skill, or those 
whose power to grasp and reason out problems makes that skill a 
greater factor in success? Is there even in the "first class" dressmaker 
a something which the one who comes a little short of success lacks? 
Is It an inborn "gumption" which can neither be acquired nor devel- 
oped by a course of mental training that makes the one able to 
onginate ways and means of accomplishing results which the other 
admires but cannot follow? Is there in each parricular division of 
the great subject of industrial educadon a means of training both 
brains and hands, or must we depend upon academic work for the 
former and be satisfied with the latter for our own share in the pupils' 
development? 

The lesson I shall suggest as throwing light on these questions 
consists of a series of problems worked out by the pupils of a dress- 
making class near the beginning of their third year in the high school. 
These pupils had had one year's previous training in this vocation 
hne, which gave them pracdce in drafting, cutting, fitting and 
making .shirtwaists and simple seven and nine-gored skirts of wash- 
able materials, and had in this second year of their trade already 
drafted, cut and fitted tight waist linings. With these drafts as a 
foundation the following problems and their immediate results made 
up the remainder of the year's work. 



361 



362 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

The latest imported seven and nine-gored skirt patterns having 
been obtained, each in three sizes, the pupils applied directly to them 
their system of drafting, and by careful drawing, measuring, and 
comparing the results with patterns drafted by them the year before 
in the same sizes, were able to note the changes in style that had taken 
place during the year, in the division of breadths, amount of spring 
to the gore, and width and placing of the flares. Then by careful 
comparison with dimensions of the different sized patterns a new set 
of rules was evolved to suit the prevailing fashion, the fundamental 
principles, however, of fitting hips and waist and determining lengths 
and curves remaining the same. 

As one of the characteristics of the seven-gored skirt draft this 
year was an uneven di\dsiop of breadths at the hip line, the pupils' 
ingenuity was more heavily taxed when each, using that as a basis, 
was given a separate design from the fashion books, calUng for an 
entirely different division of breadths, from which she was to make 
a paper model to a scale from her own measurements, true in line and 
proportion. Much care was taken in the selection of these designs 
in order to give as much variety as possible to the work of the class. 
Some had equal front and back panels, others side breadths of equal 
widths; some called for plaited skirts, othcs' for combinations of 
plaits and plain breadths. There were circular skirts with plaits and 
without and skirts of two, three and four breadths; thus each student, 
besides having the practice in working out her own problem, could 
benefit from the experience gained by her companions on those 
entirely different. 

Finally came a study of the modifications of either the waist or 
skirt patterns or both that would be necessary in order to carry om^ 
the individual design and give at the same time the continuation of 
lines with beauty of curve and proportion which would make the dress 
a unit as pleasing as that of any beautiful work of art. 



THE TEACHING OF MILLINERY. 
Clara S. Gay. 

Practical Arts High School, Boston, Mass. 

Our desire in the newly established High School of Practical Arts in 
Boston is to give the girls a real business training. The work in our 
department is given to them as if they were apprentices in a hat shop. 
The proper handling of the tools is the first important step. Then 
follows the measurement and construction of buckram and wire frames 
and the making of the hat, the covering of these frames with velvet, 
silk, straw, braid, net, chiffon or lace. The last step to be taken in 
the first year's course is simple trimming. 

Before entering into the discussion of these processes there is a 
suggestion concerning the class room for millinery. We find it neces- 
sary to furnish the room- as nearly like the work room of a regular 
hat shop as possible, giving the girls tables where four or six may 
work, low chairs, and footstools. There must also be places to keep 
the work, and we have found the milliners' heavy hat boxes, which 
are like large drawers, very satisfactory. With some hat stands and 
a mirror the work-shop is equipped. 

When the girls are ready for work we have a talk on the use of 
cutters, pliers and milliners needles — the last a source of surprise and 
annoyance on account of the length. We soon settle down to real 
work, that of cutting and making bandeaus of buckram and of wire 
of different kinds and sizes. 

Next, a start is made in the cutting and making of folds. This 
requires more thought than the girls realize, for there is to be con- 
sidered the true bias which is so necessary to make a fold fit well . 
Not only is there the true bias, but the fold has also to be cut on the 
ends and pieced with a firm, neat back-stitch, or the seam will full 
and pucker when stretched on the hat. Again there is the nap to be 
considered; it often happens if one is not careful that the nap of one 
end may run in one way, and the nap of the other in the opposite 
direction, thus making the shade of the velvet very different. After 
the piecing is carefully done, the strip is neatly catch-stitched and 

363 



364 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

then, the work on the milliner's folds, pipings, puffs, shirrings and 
other finishings may follow. 

We are now ready to take up the buckram frame. The individual 
girl ascertains her own head size in order that she may have experience 
in fitting such as she would have in a regular shop. The width of 
brim is determined and whether it is to be rolling, straight or droop- 
ing. A paper pattern is cut according to dimensions, then placed on 
the buckram, which is cut and lapped on the edge to form the upward 
or downward curve of the shape desired. When the proper lines and 
curves are effected we proceed to wire, bind and cover the frame with 
wadding or crinoline, whichever the material to be used will require. 

Then the circumference and height of the crown is thought of — 
whether it is to be large or small, tapering or square. The best pro- 
portions relative to the brim and the becomingness to the wearer 
must be determined. 

After the crown is adjusted we are ready to cover the upper part 
of the brim. As a rule it is best to have the inexperienced girl first 
fit and cut a pattern of tissue paper, from which she may cut the cover- 
ing to be used on the brim. This pattern is placed on the velvet with 
the bias in front or at the highest roll of the brim with the nap run- 
ning diagonally back; it is fitted and pinned carefully with all wrinkles 
drawn out and then sewed over the edge and into the head size. 
The under brim is covered in the same manner and the edges slip- 
stitched together. A fold or covered wire is placed on the edge of 
the hat to finish it. The crown is covered and finished at the lower 
edge with a plain fold and bow, and the hat is then lined carefully. 

This completes the foundation hat. By this time the girls are 
ready for something new and even a wire frame is welcomed with joy 
Several models are given the girls to copy that they may have some 
choice and a variety to work from. 

When we come to covering the frame with straw, interest in the 
work increases, and the girls are happy, for like many of us they 
rejoice to see quick results. 

The first straw hat must have a fancy mull facing for practice, and 
the question arises shall tucks be used — one tuck or two or three? 
Or shall cords be employed, large or small, or wire? 

Then there are shirrings, which are so pretty in clusters or several 
rows, or again, combinations of these may be used. The pupils 
choose for themselves, and this first work is generally very good, 
some careful students producing really excellent work at this stage. 



ipio] The Teaching of Millinery 365 

They are now ready to do some work for themselves. They usually 
find a picture of a frame which they reproduce, or they copy from 
memory a hat seen in a window or on the street. 

By this time the pupil has heard in her art work much about har- 
mony, color and rhythm; she has learned to consider her suit or coat 
in selecting the materials for her hat, and she has grown aware of the 
importance when choosing a hat of giving heed to the shade and dress- 
ing of her hair, the color of her eyes and complexion— the shape of 
the hat and the trimmings for it. Moreover, she has had her atten- 
tion called to the appropriateness of hat and costume for definite 
occasions. 

All of these points having been carefully studied, she is able to decide 

more intelligently this really important question of suitable head gear. 

By the end of the first year all those who do not seem able to sew 

well or trim with abiHty should be advised to take up a new kind of 

work— they will not make a success of millinery. 

The teaching of trimming is another matter— that the girl has to 
do for herself, with suggestion of line, rhythm and value of colors. 
We know that a hat trimmed with ever so much effectivenesss is not 
valuable urless made with the utmost care and neatness; often the 
making is the principal part of a hat of this day, with just the right 
touch to finish it. For what milliner of high standing would send 
out a hat, no matter how chic, if it was not made properly? For this 
reason the greatest care must be taken in the part of the work dealing 
with the making. 

These steps in the progress of making and trunming are repeated 
each year of the course, with more and more difficult problems dealing 
with mourning work, fur hats, lace hats and other characteristic 
features of the millinery trade. 

^ We have girls of many types and dispositions, and find their city 
life lacks many privileges their mothers and grandmothers had for 
home trainmg in domesric arts. We feel the need of this same 
training for them, as well as an intellectual one, to fully develop 
their characters. For this reason the Practical Arts High School 
of Boston has been established. 

These giris who have worked at millinery have certainly gained 
patience in the first cull work in buckram wire and folds, and they 
have gathered koovvledge of grace, and arristic lines and of the beauty 
of proper coloring; they have learned the values of material and the 
art of combining. 



TEACHING DESIGN TO TRADE CLASSES. 

Grace W. Ripley. 
Girls' Trade School, Boston Mass. 

Four trades are taught in the Girls' Trade School of Boston, milli- 
nery, dressmaking, machine garment making, and machine hat mak- 
ing. From the beginning of her course a pupil works in actual trade 
shops where order work is done for discriminating custom^ers. One 
year is the usual time taken for learning c trade. Besides the trade 
work, each pupil studies business English and arithmetic, design, 
gymnastics and cooking. Two periods of one and one-half hours 
each are given to the design work. 

The first object of the design course is to give the pupils an oppor- 
tunity to supply the designs needed in the trade shops of the school, 
and by so doing to gain experience on the creative side of this work. 

The pupils work very hard so that they may get a design accepted, 
and are proud when their work is pronounced of a salable quality. 
Some pupils are able to make salable designs as soon as they learn the 
special requirements in making designs for different materials. Two 
special design classes were formed last year for talented girls and 
these girls made even the most difficult designs needed in trade work. 

We use the same elements in design that are used in the needlework, 
tucks, featherstitching, French knots, embroidery units, bands, 
hems, yokes, cuffs, panels, braid, lace, silk, etc. The pupils are 
taught to make combinations and selections, and their best ideas are 
used on our children's garments, underwear, waists, skirts, hats, etc. 

The design work is closely related with the trade work. In the 
underwear department the girls design underwear, in the waist depart- 
ment, waists, etc. It helps very much in the beginning to work out 
many problems in tissue paper and to lay actual tucks in the paper 
and represent hamburg, lace, featherstitching and embroidery in 
Chinese white. 

One of the most helpful and interesting things that we do is to 
make simple patterns, and this we do in almost every lesson. We 
begin by folding and cutting circles of different dimensions, then 

366 



1910] Teaching Design to Trade Classes 367 

ellipses, etc. Some pupils cut many circles before they can feel the 
curve. We cut patterns of yokes, stocks, jabots (plaited and plain), 
belts, cuffs and collars. We have dressmaking forms which are in 
constant use, and besides using these, the pupils cut patterns for each 
other. Often the pupils are given patterns to correct or make over. 

We have done a good neckwear business this year. All the neck- 
wear was designed, stamped on cloth and made entirely by our girls. 
We found it very diificult to keep our prettiest models on hand, as 
they sold so quickly. A showroom containing glass cases was estab- 
hshed last year, and this is kept in order and made attractive by 
different girls in turn. Whenever our stock of neckwear runs low, 
paper models are put into the case, so that people may order from 
them. The models are so pleasing that people often want to buy 
them thinking them real. 

I beheve the taste of the general public is constantly maligned 
and that people really prefer pretty to ugly things. What people 
do not hke is a thing that although perhaps faultless is without charm. 
A trade school pupil often presents a design which is not bad and we 
sometimes put the responsibihty on the pubHc, saying "Put it into 
the case for a few days aiid see if it will sell." The neckwear designs 
which have sold best are the ones which had either individuality of 
shape or charm of decoration. A fine linen jabot without decoration 
but with long points sold as fast as we could make it, to the great 
dehght of the small designer, who cut the pattern after having 
attempted several dozen which were correct but entirely uninterest- 
ing. 

We use quantities of light weight brown wrapping paper and white 
tissue wrapping paper for our cutting work. My rag-bag is also in 
constant requisition. Some of the finest dress-makers of the city 
send us scraps from their work rooms. The larger and finer pieces 
are used by the millinery girls in making silk ties and this gives them 
an opportunity for extra practice in handling and combining materials 
and tying bows. We use these scraps constantly in our color study, 
which consists of exercises in matching and choosing combinations 
with reference to beauty, utility and appropriateness. 

Some pupils have a natural color gift which enables them to make 
beautiful color combina tions by instinct. These need merely a chance 
to exercise their powers, but others need much training before they 
can make even passable color combinations. Last year a mull tie 
of simple design was embroidered in seven or eight different colors of 



368 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Persianna and we watched the selling qualities of the different colors. 
Our customers usually bought the ones we considered prettiest. 

Our millinery girls also made designs for bands of braiding and 
embroidery and ornaments which were so fashionable this year, also 
chiffon and silk roses for ornaments. This gave them excellent prac- 
tice in handling materials, combining colors and making designs. 

The necessity of economy in design is an important lesson for a 
designer to learn. An order of a design for a chemise was given to a 
girl, who in a short time presented a gooa design containing 134 dots. 
For the price to be paid we could not afford to embroider so many 
dots and the pupil simplified the design to 74 dots, then to 34. The 
customer was much pleased with the final design. A great majority 
of commercial embroidery patterns could be simplified without hurt- 
ing the effect of the designs. 

It is impossible to take the trade school pupils to the stores very 
often, so we bring the stores to the pupils by weekly exhibits loaned 
to us by the best stores of Boston. From these e.xhibitions the 
pupils make selections and get inspiration and new ideas. 

The girls employed on machine-made hats made plasterline models 
for dolls' hats half the size of the large models used for blocking and 
pressing hats. The plasterline models were shellacked and used. 
The girls gained training for eye and hand and at the same time made 
useful things. 

A designer is a necessity in a machine-operating factory. The 
methods of making machine operator designers are taught in an ele- 
mentary way to our machine garment makers, in the hope that they 
will take an intelligent interest in the creative side of their work and 
strive to advance themselves in their trade. When a pupil begins 
to volunteer ideas upon the constructing and ornamenting of our 
products, we know that we have begun to succeed with her. 

On the last three days of school there were no design lessons, yet 
the design room was full of pupils working hard on designs to use m 
the summer, and going ahead mainly without help or criticism. A 
little Italian girl made a design for a Dutch collar on Friday, embroid- 
ered it on Saturday, wore it to school on Monday and took about 
twelve orders from it before Wednesday. She showed that she had 
imagination and the initiative to carry out ideas. She is one of those 
who makes us sure that the study of the trade design is very much 
worth while. 



PRACTICAL METHODS IN A HOUSEHOLD ARTS LESSON. 

Emma S. Jacobs. 
Director of Domestic Science, Washington, D. C. 

Out of the whole list of lessons in household arts, I have chosen 
the one on making a fire, and hope to show how to present the materials 
direct the attention of the class, secure the interest and activity 
necessary, and teach not only the art of making the fire, but also 
the principles on which the making, the keeping, and the con- 
trol of the fire are based, and their appHcation elsewhere in the 
home. 

As an introduction to the lesson, let there be a discussion of the 
object of the assembly of the class in the kitchen or cooking school 
or the presentation there of a range. Let the questions be definite, 
and of such a character as to secure from the pupils a free response, 
that a certain degree of sympathy may be established between the 
teacher and the pupil, that the teacher may discover the store of 
experience and knowledge in the possession of each pupil, and that 
this store of experience and knowledge may be set forth. The dis- 
cussion should show that heat is needed to develop flavors and other- 
wise prepare food to be eaten, that different materials are used to 
produce this heat, that these materials are burned, and that some of 
them require stoves or other apparatus of special construction for 
the combustion. 

Now show by experiments the conditions which govern and control 
the burning of fuel. For these experiments have a candle, matches, 
cardboard, thick felt, narrow strips of wood, a tumbler, a wax taper, 
and lime water. Give no suggestion of the results to be obtained. 
Try the experiments beforehand to be sure the desired results can 
be obtained. During the experiments, direct attention to the mate- 
rials used, what is being done to them, and the results obtained. Let 
the pupils describe all this in their own words, but do not hold them 
m too rigid control or direct attention too closely to the spoken word. 
Then lead them to draw conclusions, which, when stated in formal 
language, will be the principles desired. 

369 



370 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Such points may be taught by the experiments as that the candle 
stick must be warmed, and the fat melted by holding a lighted match 
against it, before it will burn, that the match will not burn unless it 
is rubbed on a rough surface which warms it; that most fuels must 
be warmed before they will burn, but that some will take fire when 
warmed but slightly; that the candle wiU not burn, unless air reaches 
it and the products of its own combustion are removed. 

The presence of carbon dioxide can be shown by the taper and lime 
water. Children will remember this though they do not understand 
it, and the teacher will later be able to show the production of carbon 
dioxide with baking powder and active yeast. 

Now show a range constructed of glass and compare its parts with 
those of the coal range to be used. Demonstrate the passage of 
smoke, carrying steam, carbon dioxide and other gases through this 
range, by introducing a smoke producing material below the fire box. 
After this let the pupils proceed to build a fire of wood in the steel 
or iron range, then by changing the arrangement of the various 
sHdes and doors in this range, let them prove what has just been shown 
in the glass one. They will learn that the smoke takes the most direct 
course to the chimney ; that when the opening below the grate is too 
large, the smoke will escape through the cracks into the room, instead 
of into the pipe; that when there is obstruction (as soot or a damper) 
in the pipe, the smoke will pass out into the room; that when the 
opening below the fire is too small or there is obstruction in the form 
of ashes in the pit or below the fire, the material will smoulder and 
not burn; that when the opening to the pipe which is nearest to the 
fire box is closed by slide or otherwise, the smoke will pass over and 
around the oven, seeking the other exit to the chimney and so heal 
the oven; and that when this opening is closed the material burns 
more slowly. 

We are thus able to teach that by having a short or direct draft, 
we cause the fire to burn briskly, and that by having a long or indirect 
draft, we cause it to burn slowly, but at the same time save fuel and 
heat the oven. We can also teach that the object of the various 
slides and doors is to increase or decrease the supply of air so we may 
control the burning of the fuel and regulate the distribution of heat. 

During the building of this fire, let the pupils determine the reason 
for cleaning all ashes from the range, for placing the pieces of fuel 
lightly on one another, and for keeping the fuel below the level of 
the top of the fire box. Show when and how to blacken the range, 



iQio] Practical Methods in a Household Arts Lesson 371 

and let them do it, as well as other work connected with making the 
fire, such as cleansing the tea kettle, putting freshly drawn water in 
it, and sweeping the floor around the range. At each lesson follow- 
ing this have at least one pupil attend to the fire, and give reasons 
for what she does. 

The next step is to apply these principles to the ventilation of a 
room. They will readily understand that we are in a measure like 
the candle or the fire. We need oxygen, and produce carbon dioxide 
which must be taken away. The best position for the inlet is at the 
floor line or just above it, and for the outlet at the ceiling or near it; 
moreover, there is more rapid change of the air if the inlet and out- 
let are on opposite sides of the room. Other applications of the 
principles taught are found in slow heating of materials, spontaneous 
combustion, putting out fire, and the action of individuals when 
there is a fire. 

It is not necessary or even desirable to go into minute details or 
explanations invohing terms used in physics and chemistry. Dem- 
onstrate the facts in a simple impressive way, draw the most obvious 
conclusions from them, and establish rules for action, then when 
these pupils reach the high schools they v;ill readily grasp and under- 
stand the reasons for these things. 

The materials we have used are interesting, they can be easily 
handled, even the children securing good results. Many a child has 
proudly shown to those at home what he has done or seen done at 
school along this line. Though the children may be familiar wdth 
the materials used, and to some extent with the facts brought out, 
yet during the experiments the mind can be led by skillful questions 
to reason back to cause, to fit cause and effect, and they will answer 
many of their own questions. Moreover, through some such method 
of presentation, the child is shown how to collect and analyze material 
which comes under his observation, and to draw conclusions or deduc- 
tions therefrom, which may become the governing principles of action. 

These pupils are passing from the stage where they are so largely 
controlled by impulses; their inhibitive powers are becoming stronger, 
ideas are held in consciousness long enough for contradictory sugges- 
tions to arise, and they begin to weigh things and to act with deliber- 
ation. They are passing from childhood to maturity, and if they 
are to help and to receive help from their fellow men, they must be 
able to observe accurately, think rapidly, and act decisively and effec- 
tively. 



372 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Much of the teaching in the manual arts leads to such results. 
Teachers of these subjects have a mass of material pr marily and 
inherently interesting to children, which can be utilized to educate 
them. Therefore, thought should be given to the best means of pre- 
senting it to secure the development of the children, or to inform them, 
using the word in its etymological sense of "shaping from within." 



DOMESTIC ART: ITS CONTENT AND POSSIBILITIES. 

Anna K. Flint. 
Associate Professor of Domestic Art, Ohio Stale University. 

Because of the wide-spread feeling that the home exerts an almost 
unbounded influence upon the persons living there and that through 
these persons it has certain powers for good or bad in a community, 
and because of the growing use of the school as a social center not only 
during school hours but also at other times, the sociologist, the edu- 
cator and others are seeking to bring about in these two centers con- 
ditions which will be conducive to right living and right thinking. 
Already have we made progress in the subjects relating to the sciences 
and are therefore on the way to more healthful and sanitary surround- 
ings. Let us consider, along with these, the making of our habita- 
tions more beautiful and attractive to live in, and so round out the 
plan by which the individual is to be better able to live a happy and 
efficient life. 

Our sense of beauty may be innate by inheritance, education and 
practice, but as most of us do not seem to have inherited a completely 
developed sense in this direction, we must acquire it by the latter 
methods. 

It would seem that we have become accustomed to think of art 
as far removed from ordinary things which we see around us at all 
times and among which we have most frequently to choose and to 
judge, for people are constantly building houses and decorating them, 
selecting furniture, floor coverings and other things necessary, or 
thought to be so, in the furnishing of a home, planning dresses and 
making or selecting hats, apparently without thinking that these 
belong in any way to the field of art. 
To my mind, domestic art should consist of the study of the princi- 
ples of color and design and their application to hygiene and eco- 
nomics, to the home, to the individual in the home and, indirectly 
to the neighborhood and to the town. There are such splendid oppor- 
tunities for the utilization of the principles of color and design in 
connection with every-day life, by applying these laws to the things 

373 



374 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

about us that we should be able to learn to discriminate, to gain a 
foundation for our judgments and gradually to acquire an appreciation 
for the beautiful which will react on our surroundings and associates. 

In the first place, I believe that courses deahng with color and 
applied design, very closely correlated with domestic art, should be 
required of every one taking work in domestic art. These courses 
are not intended to make designers and colorists of the student but 
to give her a better understanding of the principles of design and 
color and a foundation upon which to base her judgments, a standard 
being as necessary here as a foundation knowledge of certain basal 
sciences before taking up dependent subjects. If instruction in 
design and color is not available in an art department, it should be 
taught in the domestic art course. In the second place, to begin 
as early as possible in the life of the child and to continue through her 
school age with work in color and design would seem to me necessary 
in order for her to develop such love for the beautiful that she will 
try to produce it in the things she makes and in her surroundings, 
and in order that she may also acquire powers of discrimination and 
habits of exercising these powers. 

In the high school domestic art may be correlated with mechanical 
drawing and the decorating of furnishings planned for the original 
house designs made in this department. The pupils should be able 
to discriminate and judge for themselves whether or not the design 
of the furniture adheres to the law of appropriateness, whether or 
not the decorative design follows the construction lines or destroys them 
through its ornateness or exaggeration of curves, and whether or not 
the designs on different parts of a piece of furniture are harmonious. 
The pupils should be able to work out their color schemes according 
to the laws of analogy and contrast. They should know that some 
colors reflect light whereas others absorb it, and they should consider 
this in papering rooms having different exposures. They should 
be able to judge for themselves the effect of large bold figures and 
naturalistic designs in wall paper which is to be used as a background 
for pictures and furniture. They may then be able to experiment 
with the use of vertical lines in paper and draperies or the use of 
horizontal lines in dadoes, borders and hangings. They may decide 
for themselves as to the sanitary and economic advantages of different 
floor coverings, and will see that in selecting them the sequence is 
more pleasing if the darkest tone in the color scheme is the floor, 
with the walls next lighter and the ceiling lightest of all. 



1910] Domestic Art: Its Content and Possibilities 575 

One point in regard to furnishing which must be dwelt upon is that 
of fitness to purpose. How often we think things belonging to others 
are what we should have and buy them only to find that they are 
not at all suitable for our purposes. Another factor to be considered 
thoughtfully is durability. A well made piece of furniture with good 
lines and suitable to the purpose for which it is used, is always pre- 
ferable from the standpoint of beauty and economy to the more elab- 
orate, cheaply ornamented and glued-together pieces which we so 
often see. A splendid opportunity to exercise the powers of dis- 
crimination of the individual is in observing things around her, good 
and bad, and in forming judgment concerning them. 

I have not said very much about the subject of dress, for I feel 
that that phase of domestic art is fairly well developed as far as the 
making of garments is concerned. Besides teaching the sewing we 
must at the same time help to form ideals and habits of thought based 
on the laws of appropriateness, economy and hygiene and the princi- 
ples of design and color in connection with clothing. This law of 
appropriateness is one that cannot be too carefully emphasized and 
discussed. If we are at all observing we see that many people disre- 
gard the influence that occasion and occupation ought to have in 
deciding the design, material and cost of dress. We see women 
doing their work about the house or visiting on the front piazza in 
kimonos. Some even venture to the corner shop in this apparel. 
We see women in the street cars in gowns that are appropriate only for 
those who can ride in their carriages. We see shoppers attired as 
for a reception. Why do so many school girls dress as though they 
were going to an afternoon tea, with fancy silk or net waists, short 
sleeves, picture hats, and high heeled shoes, and in cold weather with 
low sUppers and lace yokes which furnish almost no protection? 
Why do we see little children attired in silks with much lace, many 
ruflfles and jewelry? 

Do these conditions and the many others that readily come to 
mind show much judgment in regard to the laws of appropriateness 
and economy? Do they show much regard for the principles of design 
and color? We all agree, I think, that they do not, but why is not 
better judgmicnt shown? To me it seems a question of ideals and 
the training, or lack of it, necessary to assist in forming the proper 
standards with reference to these matters. 

In giving these suggestions to the content and possibilities of 
domestic art, I have not tried to outline a definite course of study. 



376 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Each of us must work out the details for her own school according 
to conditons. I have presented what I consider the most important 
phase, that of art, on the knowledge of which our judgments and 
tastes ought to be based, and from the standpoint of which a child 
should begin early to observe the things in her home, in her school, 
and all about her, in order that she may know how and where to find 
and create beauty. 

That it is st 11 with us an effort instead of an instinct to make all 
things beautiful, is very evident when we think of the exaggerations 
in dress of the past year or two and the furnishings of our homes. It 
is encouraging, however, to know that women in the homes and in 
the clubs have taken an interest in the reorganization of the present 
scheme of dressing and in the simpler, more useful and hygienic fur- 
nishings of the home, in order to add to their own comfort and happi- 
ness and to contribute to a better and more reasonable way of living. 



HOW TO MAKE THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS EFFECTIVE 
IN THE SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY. 

Ednah a. Rich. 

President of State Normal School of Manual Arts and Home Economics, 
Santa Barbara, California. 

I can only talk from the supervisor's point of view. Here in a 
meeting of this sort we want to learn something which we can go home 
and try, and we Californians in particular always want to work things 
out. I think that we cannot overestimate the importance of interest- 
ing the community. Unless we make the mothers, fathers, aunts, and 
cousins just as interested as the children are, our work will not be 
far-reaching in its results. We do not, however, always have sufficient 
money to work out our plans and we sometimes lack the sympathy 
of the grade teachers, principals, and superintendents. 

Now, one thing we have to do as teachers is to win the people with 
whom we work, and there is nothing truer than that if we win the 
children, we win public interest. The only way I think of to make 
household arts effective in the schools is to make them practical, but 
we must adapt the work to our communities. The children in our 
schools or in our own homes, being interested in dolls, will take delight 
in making dolls' clothes. But do not forget that children are children. 
Do not make them do great long things, but give them short and 
practical work which they can easily and quickly finish. 

Try to help the grade teacher to carry this spirit into her work. 
I like to think of the household arts as the home work. That is your 
problem. If you have thought that you were a special teacher, try 
to say to the grade teachers, "Let us work together." Having the 
children make reports and send them back is a good idea. We can- 
not make reports and correct them, but we can inspect and keep 
track of the work. We should go down in the lower grades, and 
begin with the eight and nine-year-old girls. Have them sew, not 
sample stitches, but real stitches on real cloth, muslin, calico, or what- 
ever it may be, so that they may recognize hemming, back-stitching, 
etc. Is it not well to have these girls who so early leave school, leave 
able to take care of themselves and their clothing? People suppose 

377 



•jyg The Journal of Home Economics [October 

that children do not care about their personal appearance, but the 
children, beginning with the lower grades, may be made to care. 
We want to give the children a much larger horizon. Not until we 
have practically all of the people in the public schools appreciating 
what handwork means, can we have the handwork gain the high 
position that it needs. 

A speaker who preceded me spoke of the interest which the people 
in the different districts, especially the manufacturers, take in such 
work. The thought that I want to leave with you is, that when you 
are given the great opportunity of going intimately into the child's 
life, make the most of it. Be mothers, grandmothers, aunts, and 
cousins to every one of your children. This will pay in the end, for 
the moment you catch one child in your net the influence will spread, 
and you will soon have all the children. 



THE TEACHING OF METHODS OF HOUSEWIFERY IN 
SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 

S. Maria Elliott. 

Instructor in Simmons College. 

The Standard Dictionary defines housewifery as "the part of 
household management coming under a woman's direction." We 
may well ask what part of such management does not come under 
her direction and who will manage any part, if the woman does not? 

The teaching of any and all subjects of housewifery should include 
a presentation of the facts underlying the process whether these facts 
be the contribution of physics, biology, art, economics or what not. 
These facts should then be carried out in actual work or practice. 
Knowledge apphed creates power; power repeatedly exercised ends 
in skill. The first two, the ordinary high schools should strive to give 
in as large a measure as possible; the last cannot be attained in them 
to any high degree. 

We shall probably agree that an ideal house is that one which 
provides a healthful, beautiful and economically-conducted environ- 
ment for the family life. Such a house forms the middle of three 
concentric circles. It is the closest environment of the clothed human 
body and may make or mar its welfare. On the other hand, its 
efl&ciency depends largely upon the perfectness of the larger and more 
distant environment — the town, city or country, even the world. 

The end of all housewifery should be the highest efficiency possible 
to each individual. For this end health should be sought. The 
healthful house is the clean house — a house filled with a plentiful 
supply of clean air and sunHght. Its furnishings must not interfere 
in number, style, color, or material with these fundamental factors 
of health; at the same time they must please the eye and be in har- 
mony with the available capital of time, strength and money. 

Since perhaps more time and strength are used in removing dust 
than in any other one process of housewifery, this process will serve 
as an example of method. 

The mind of a high-school pupil should be ever ready to ask: 
"Why?" Why, then, should dust be fought? 

379 



380 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

As housewifery is preeminently applied science, high school pupils 
should look to their entire study of bacteriology for the answer. 
Bacteriology is the science which most firmly underlies the study of 
cleanness and nothing can quite supply its place. However, "dust 
gardens" — to use a descriptive common term rather than the techni- 
cal name for plate cultures of dust — will alone furnish a sufl&cient 
basis for the answer. They make clear that in common household 
dust there are living cells capable of growth, of reproduction and the 
production of chemical changes. These changes may spoil our food 
or furnishings, thereby causing economic waste; or they may, in our 
bodies, cause discomfort, disease and possibly death. Because of 
their omnipresence, their invisibility, and their rapid multiplication, 
methods of prezention should be studied first in order that their re- 
moval may be ascertained and made as easy as possible. 

Prevention consists in furnishing few lodging places for dust — 
smooth non-absorbent surfaces in finish and fittings; in providing 
conditions unfavorable for growth, floods of sunlight, change of air, 
absence of exposed food, dryness and cold. With due attention to 
prevention and removal there will be little need of disinfection, which 
is the making harmless that which has not been or cannot be pre- 
vented or removed. 

The removal of dry dust includes the two common processes of 
sweeping and dusting. What do we sweep, and why? Floors, will 
answer the first question and the why is the general answer of sanita- 
tion — to ensure the prompt, rapid and complete removal of all dirt. 

Dirt on floors consists of (i) litter — bits of paper, threads, etc., 
that should not be there; (2) grit and street filth — that should not be 
brought into the house on our uncleaned shoes; (3) fluff — the d^bri^ 
from the wear and tear of fabrics — the more fabrics, the more fluff! 
All of these are laden with bacteria, molds and occasionally with wild 
yeasts. 

If sweeping results in throwing this visible and invisible dust into 
the air, it is not removal but simply a change from one place to another 
— Hke all blowing, beating, shaking and brushing. The purpose of 
sweeping is to gather together coarse dirt with the attached dust, 
that all may be removed from the house. The aim in sweeping should 
be to raise or scatter as little dust as possible into the air, for this 
must settle again and is therefore not removed. 

Rough surfaces, as uneven floors and carpets, hold the dirt and 
dust tenaciously. A somewhat inflexible, stiff implement, as a broom, 



19 lo] Teaching Housewifery in Secondary Schools 381 

is necessary to reach into the depressions and among the fibers to 
dislodge the dirt. This broom, if dry, snaps and so throws dust; if 
damp, it will hold the dust without scattering so much. This is the 
simplest application of the universal principle that damp surfaces 
hold dust. 

A broom used on loosely woven carpets pushes the fine dirt through, 
where it remains on the floor beneath to be ground into powder and 
returned at every footfall. Such carpets are difficult to sweep in such 
a way that the dirt may be collected from the surface without being 
pushed through. Pile carpets or rugs hold the dirt on the surface or 
lightly in their meshes. The broom should not, then, be pushed 
down too heavily, for most carpets are not over one-eighth inch in 
thickness. 

With proper attention to sanitary habits and preventive measures, 
smooth-finished floors need little if any sweeping. Litter may be 
picked up by the hand or taken from its place without sweeping the 
whole floor by using a small broom with a long handled dustpan. 
This method is equally good or even more effective on carpets. 

If much grit is present, a soft brush should first be used on polished 
surfaces. It does not scatter dust so much as a broom and its stroke 
is a push instead of a pull. The pupils should study the mechanical 
advantage of this. Mattings should be treated as nearly like bare 
floors as possible. A broom should not be used upon them. 

Sweeping lessons should consider and illustrate the dress of the 
worker. This requires smooth, washable fabrics so made as to allow 
unrestricted use of the muscles, and protection also for the hair and 
nostrils. Here may be applied the principles learned in the study of 
textiles, dyes, design and in laundrying. Such lessons must also include 
attention to the position of the body in order that energy may not be 
dissipated and wrong physical conditions result; the position of the 
hands on the broom handle, with thumbs opposed; the stroke or lever- 
age-a pull not a push-and which should be in front of, but not toward the 
worker: the short, light, wiping overlapping movements necessary to 
prevent raising dust and pushing dirt through ; the stoppage of the broom 
on the floor and not in the air, to overcome the inertia of the rising dust 
current; the use of both corners and both sides that complete effi- 
ciency in wear may be gained; the cleaning of the broom by removal 
of entangled hair or fluff and the washing away of collected dust, 
with cautions as to rotting of the stitching and rusting of the mount; 
and finally, the proper drying and storage to ensure cleanness and 



382 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

full return in service. A second application of the scientific fact 
that damp surfaces hold dust is given by the use of "dust catchers" — 
damp pieces of paper, damp coarse shavings, anything that will rot 
stain the carpet or allow bits to remain in the meshes to mold or sour. 

The gathered dirt — sweepings — must be taken up. For this, use 
the damp covered dustpan which shows the third application of this 
principle. This is prepared by covering the dustpan with a piece of 
wet newspaper fitted to its flat surface, but standing up as far as pos- 
sible at the back and sides. The dust caught on the back will show 
its useful purpose. This is of prime importance in sweeping stairs for 
here the worker's face is directly over the rising dust. Stair sweeping 
emphasizes also the need of covering the nostrils. 

Sweepings should be burned, for fire will safely dispose of all danger- 
ous micro-organisms. The damp paper when wrapped about the 
sweepings furnishes neat removal and safe storage, if they cannot be 
burned immediately. 

A carpet sweeper is a brush with broom action enclosed in a box 
which serves as a dustpan. The movements, methods of cleaning the 
brush and box, as well as its storage should all be considered in rela- 
tion to cleanness and economy. Its proper use on carpets and rugs 
obviates the pushing of dirt through or into the fabric and prevents 
raising dust into the air. Wisely selected and used, it is an economical, 
eflBicient and sanitary dirt remover; improperly used or cared for, it 
is inefficient, uneconomical, and may become filthy. As it cannot 
clean the edges of an all-over carpet, its use here is not as completely 
sanitary as it is with rugs. The edges must be cared for by the use of 
the broom in order to remove the dirt, discourage insect pests and pre- 
vent marring the finish of the room 

Sweeping is the most dust-spreading process of all housework; there- 
fore there should be as little of it as possible. The " dust gardens " will 
show plainly that sweeping should not be done while food is being pre- 
pared or served; that whenever it is done, accessible food should be 
covered, and above all, that in order to attain cleanness the dust which 
sweeping always raises must be allowed to settle thoroughly before its 
removal by dusting can be accomplished. This will be well shown if 
one ''garden" be planted immediately after sweeping and another 
after the lapse of some hours. 

No house is clean so long as the air is laden with dust. The clean- 
est house, therefore, is one where little sweeping but much wiping of 
floors is done. 



iQio] Teaching Housewifery in Secondary Schools 383 

Dust is not removed from the house by whisking a feather duster or 
flirting a cloth over surfaces or even by wiping it into a cloth which is 
then shaken in the room or stored in a dust-bag to be used again and 
again until — who knows? The ordinary dusting allows still another 
application of the principle that dampness holds dust. A soft, rough, 
absorbent cloth or similar material, not linty,must be chosen and the 
dust wiped up into it, the dusty portion folded over and a fresh portion 
used. Dampness may be given by either water or oil. A properly 
dampened duster will not injure polished surfaces. Injury results from 
too much moisture or a too dirty cloth. After washing, the dust-laden 
cloths or mops need thorough drying before they are stored, for no 
damp, dust-laden article should be stored in a dark warm place, 
where conditions are favorable for fermentatior. 

Sweepings burned and dusting implements washed ensure, through 
fire and the sewer, the final removal from the house of the invisible 
hving organisms of decomposition and disease, as well as the dead ani- 
mal and vegetable matter and mineral grit on which they are carried 
about. 

These two methods of disposal are typical of all methods in house- 
wifery. They show how through housework there may be a daily 
application of physics, chemistry, bacteriology and other sciences. 
Properly done, housework becomes one of the best means of physical 
culture. It also furnishes almost unUmited opportunities for the study 
of values in manufactured articles and their relations to industry and 
social conditions, — all of which are factors of economics. Above all, 
the study of housewifery should prove that "any necessary work may 
be greatly done." 

The end sought — complete efficiency in human beirgs — raises the 
business and profession of housekeeping to a plane far removed from 
drudgery. 



THE "HOUSE COURSE." 

Jenny H. Snow. 

University High School, Chicago. 

The chief purpose of the work in Home Economics in our high school 
is to show to the pupil the importance of the home, to arouse interest 
in its work by giving famiharity with its common processes and their 
underlying principles, to indicate the relation of the home to the com- 
munity, and to develop a sense of civic responsibility. The study of 
food, shelter, and clothing affords an opportunity to present some of 
the economic and esthetic as well as the scientific problems involved 
in the management of the household, and to give through these a sense 
of values, a standard of living, and a control of the common materials 
with which one deals in the home. The study of the house itself, or 
as we call it our "house" course, opens up the discussion of a great 
many of these problems. 

This course has been the most popular in our high school work in 
Home Economics. It meets five single periods a week, two of which 
are devoted to work in household art. 

The following is a short outline of the course. 

A brief study of the early human habitations and a comparison of the homes 
of other people with those of to-day. 

The development of the American house, including the study of the New Eng- 
land and southern Colonial homes, and the home life and occupation of that time; 
a comparison of the home life of a hundred years ago with the home life to-day; 
reasons for the changes that have taken place and are taking place now; effect of 
changes on home life. 

Some problems involved in the building of a modest house: (a) the selection 
of the site; soil, drainage, surroundings, accessibility, improvements; (b) the draw- 
ing of house plans adapted to the site; (c) the cost and relative value of building 
materials; (d) the construction of the house; cellar, foundation, walls, and roof; 
(c) heating, lighting, and ventilating; a study of various systems as to convenience, 
cost, and efficiency; (/) the plumbing system of the house. 

The decoration and furnishing of the house considered as to sanitary value, 
artistic value, quality, and cost. This is a direct application of the work in design. 

Care of the house from the sanitary point of view. 

The care of textile fabrics including cleaning and removing of spots and stains. 



igio] The ''House Course'' 385 

Some of the problems involved in the maintenance of the home, such as division 
of labor, domestic service, apportionment of the income, and the relation of differ- 
ent members of the family toward each other. 

The housing conditions in Chicago, what is being done to improve these conditions, 
what is being done to elevate the home hfe in the crowded districts, and our respon- 
sibility in connection with some of the civic problems of the day. 

The art, in connection with this course, includes a brief study of decorative 
designing, involving the principles of applied art in its relation to the home. The 
problems of proportion in space division, of balance, flow of line, harmony of shapes, 
rhythmic repetition are studied as they are encountered in designing curtains, 
table and pillow covers, pottery, lamp and candle shades. Both the design and 
its rendering in actual material are made with the purpose of developing the orig- 
inality of the pupil and of teaching her the rules and principles that govern the 
expression of her own idea. 

The pupils are allowed five or six thousand dollars for the building 
of the house. The price is limited for two reasons, first to simphfy the 
work and second to show what can be done for a sum which seems to 
these girls a very small amount. By the time their house plans are 
completed they are ready to apply their work in color and design to 
the decorating and furnishing, studying here the influence of Burne- 
Jones and Morris, to whose joint efforts are due the complete revolu- 
tion in decorative art during the last half century. 

All the time this is being done, each has in mind a definite family 
which is to occupy this house. Usually it consists of the father, mother 
and two or three children. 

Many of our girls come from wealthy homes and have very little 
idea of the cost of running a house, only one or two suggesting the pos- 
sibility of getting along without a servant. 

In discussing the question of clothing the girls made lists of what 
was necessary for the different members of the family. Some who had 
an allowance and had kept their accounts for years, had definite data 
on which to base their estimates of cost. The figures varied all the way 
from two hundred dollars a year for the woman's clothes up to six and 
eight hundred. Their estimates were discussed with much spirit, each 
one trying to defend her own. 

Consultation at home changed some views. One girl came back and 
said "My father thinks a woman does not need six hundred dollars a 
year for clothes, she can dress very well on four hundred." So one 
estimate was changed. 

Then the question arose, If you spend so much a year for clothes 
what ought the income to be? They found by applying the ideal divi- 



386 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

sion of the income that the father in that home would need a large in- 
come. This led to the discussion of the incomes of the various classes 
of people. They were surprised to find that $2000 a year was above 
the average for the university professor. They began to realize that 
many people to whom books, education and at least a limited amount 
of travel were necessities must divide their income in such a way that 
a minimum amount must be spent for food, clothing and service. The 
division of the $2000 income became a very interesting problem to 
them and each girl put herself in the place of the mother in such a 
home and tried to see what she would do under the circumstances. 

The discussion of this problem like that of many others went from 
the classroom to the dinner table at home and then back again to the 
class-room. The fact that the parents have shared in these discus- 
sions has added both interest and value to the work. It has been 
noticable, however, that the comments and suggestions made have 
usually come from the father, rather than the mother. 

Through the continued interest of the home and the many messages 
that have gone back and forth between the school and home, the girls 
have gainea a much broader outlook than would have been possible 
without this help. 

A list of the reference books used follows: 

The House, Bevier; The Habitation of Man in All Ages, Le Due; Prehistoric Amer- 
ica, Madaillac; Prehistoric America, Foster; Womati's Share in Primitive Ctdiiire, 
Mason; Household Economics, Campbell; The Tree-Dwellers, Dopp; The Cave- 
Dwellers, Dopp; The Clif -Dwellers, Peet; History of Architecture, Fletcher; Japan, 
Its Art, Architecture and Manufacture; "Evolution of Domestic Life in America," 
House Beautiful, Vol. XII; The Story of Architecture, Mathews; Colonial Days and 
Ways, Smith; Home Life in Colonial Days, Earle; Colonial Architecture of Marylat^I, 
Pennsylvania, and Virginia, Cha.nd\eT;ColonialDays inOld New York, Earle; Prac- 
tical Hygiene, Currier; House Sanitation, Richards and Talbot; Care of the House, 
Clark; How to Build a House, Moore; The Craftsman Magazine; The House Beau- 
tiful; Sanitation in the Modern Home, Allen; Principles of Home Decoration, 
Wheeler; Rugs — Oriental and Occidental, Holt; The Furnishing of a Modern Home, 
Daniels; Laundry Manual; Cost of Living, Richards. 



THE TEACHING OF HOUSEHOLD FURNISHING AND 

DECORATIONS. 

Mrs. Mary E. Williams.i 
Director of Domestic Science, New York City Schools. 

The study of household decoration has been recently introduced 
into the pubhc schools of New York City, and is being emphasized in 
the course of domestic science. It is believed that the course has been 
very materially strengthened thereby. Both teachers and children 
have enjoyed the work as it has been presented. The children are 
quick to seize upon the underlying principles governing color, and their 
natural aptitude and taste for color selection guide them in adapting 
the schemes to the plan of fitting and furnishing a home. 

In some schools there are rooms set apart for the purpose. Classes 
take the livehest interest in selecting wall and floor coverings, furniture 
and hangings in good taste and in keeping with the general character 
of the room. Where this is not possible, small model rooms made by 
the teachers from wood and card-board are shown and the lessons 
drawn from these. General rules and principles governing artistic 
decoration are given in a short talk or concisely dictated; then the chil- 
dren are supplied with scraps of wall paper and different colored fab- 
rics and make their own selection as to what is suitable for a living 
room, dining room, or bedroom, as the case may be, until a complete 
apartment or home has been planned for. 

In one case, in a down town Italian district, the children made very 
successful wall paper designs for these three rooms. The children of 
another school in an uptown district carried off a prize offered by a 
high school for the best plan for fitting up and furnishing a model flat 
for use in the work of this high school. So it is hoped that the course 
may be a step toward vocational work, whereby these children may 
be trained for some wage earning profession. 



^ Read by Miss Agnes Daley before the Educational Section of the National 
Education Association, Boston, July 5-6, 1910. 



387 



388 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The ruling principle of decoration is simplicity. Art is the relation 
of unity and variety, and the aim of the artist is to maintain simplicity 
by controlling variety with unity. The application of simplicity to 
color and form is the problem of decoration. These facts the teacher 
keeps in mind, and plans to bring them before the child in a simple 
attractive way with the idea of stimulating the interest as well. 

A general plan for presenting a lesson and a few points emphasized 
is given as follows: Discussion: (i) Location of room — north, east, 
south, or west; (2) light or dark; (3) use to which the room is put; and 
(4) expenditure. Plan to furnish from the standpoint of — the artistic, 
economic, and hygienic. 

Wall Covering. — If a sunny room, choose paper or covering of cool 
tones, such as blue, grey, green, and all their shades. If cold (north 
exposure) or dark, choose warm, rich ton^s, such as yellow, red, or 
orange with all their shades. If the ceiling be high the ideal to attain 
would be to break the lines in order to lower the effect. If the ceiling 
be low, choose a design to heighten the effect — an unobtrusive stripe, 
perhaps. Red and any of its shades are aggressive and bring the lines 
into prominence. Blue is a receding color. Large designs tend to 
make a room appear smaller. Half tone or plain papers of light color 
make it appear larger. Papers with designs are more economical be- 
cause they do not show soiling as readily. Plain ground or half-toned 
papers are more artistic as they make a good back-ground for other fit- 
tings and are more restful to the eye. 

Floor Coverings. — Advantages of rugs over carpets : (i) more cleanly; 
(2) may be less expensive; (3) there may be different floor stains and 
finishing to correspond to the wood-work and furniture. The ceiling 
and floor should be kept light if the idea of space is desired. There 
should be regard for the design of a rug that it may be consistent with 
rules governing good taste and common sense. For instance a rug 
bearing the design of a large and wonderful Newfoundland dog is not 
in good taste — dogs were never meant to walk on. 

Note: Pictures of rugs cut from the catalogs of importing houses 
may be shown to illustrate the best colors and designs and their ap- 
propriateness. 

Furniture. — Have the furniture in accordance with the use made of 
the room, and of simple but good design. Do not use carved furniture, 
unless a vocuum cleaner may be made use of. Advocate the advis- 
ability of buying always good plain furniture, rather than that of cheap, 
gaudy design and covering. 



iQio] Teaching Household Furnishing 3-89 

Note: Toy furniture may be purchased and its good and bad points 
discussed. In some cases cheap-looking toys may be changed into 
those of good substantial design, by cutting, sand papering and repair- 
ing. 

Pictures. — Have prints or photographs of good pictures rather than 
cheap chromos or bad paintings. Select suitable subjects for pictures 
to be hung in the different rooms discussed. Have frames in keeping 
with the subject, and of unobtrusive design, etc. 

Note: Perry and Cosmos pictures of fine paintings and statues may 
be purchased and shown. 

General Rule. — Have only useful things in the home and make these 
ornamental. Non-essentials such as pictures, statues, and flower 
vases can be chosen with regard to subject, line, and purpose. 

Note: Presenting the subject in this way obviates any sensitiveness 
which might come about from presenting the subject to children of 
varied classes, as must needs be in a large city. Adapt the lessons as 
far as possible to the needs of the children with whom you have to 
deal. Of course a general knowledge of color such as the teacher must 
possess from study is essential to the guidance of the children, and she 
must be able to assist in the decision as to whether a color scheme is to 
be analogous or complementary in composition. 

The study of art has always been an elevating factor in the life of a 
nation, and it is strange that our people have not been quick to realize 
the practical value of its application. Anything and everything we 
can do to strengthen our home life — to give to it breadth, beauty and 
culture — will make for the betterment of our nation. Therefore, let 
us not neglect any detail that may serve to accomplish this end. 



THE RELATION OF FINE ART TO DOMESTIC ART.^ 

Elizabeth Stone. 

Teacher of Drawing, Brookline, Mass. 

In a general high school a course in art, if it is to be of practical ser- 
vice to the pupil after graduation, must try to do three things: (i) 
Train the eye to a keener and more accurate vision; (2) give the hand 
reasonable facility to express ideas, or record impressions; (3) develop 
discrimination ("good taste"). 

Of the three purposes, the last, in a public school, is most important, 
for where an average man or woman finds it necessary to make ten 
drawings in a life-time, he, or more particularly she, makes daily that 
number of decisions involving the principles of taste, A man chooses 
his neckties, the pictures for his ofl&ce, the bill heads and the adver- 
tisements that he uses, while a woman's day is filled with opportunities 
to make her clothes and her home furnishings a pleasure or an irritation 
to those who view them. 

The power to make successful decisions about restful lines and har- 
monious colors is not intuitive, nor does it come as a marriage portion. 
With men it is rare, because they are denied the training that a woman 
gets by unremitting practice; for this reason, among others, voters have 
not yet aboHshed bill boards. You have, however, only to observe 
your fellow passengers in a street car to discover women to whom good 
taste is like the Japanese emperor who never died because he never 
lived, while a series of calls in any neighborhood will reveal garish 
pictures and hybrid furniture. There is a tradition that if a man live 
to be a hundred he never forgets the table manners he learned as a boy; 
decisions in matters of taste might often be included in that tradition, 
and therefore discrimination should be inculcated young, lest we grow 
up with nonsensitive eyes, or worse still, with no standard except 
the vicious one of fashion. In the latter case we shall have a procession 
of half worn things creeping toward the attic, relics of the horse-hair, 

> Read at the Boston Convention of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, January, 1910. 



390 



19 lo] Fine Art and Domestic Art 



391 



black, overcarved walnut, and the crushed plush periods, for it is only 
simple, useful orderiy surroundings which, as the fittest, survive. If 
a school training can help to create a demand for reasonable and har- 
monious personal and civic belongings, it will have justified itself 
economically and aesthetically. To accomplish something toward this 
end a course in art cannot mean drawing a picture; it must be instead 
a definite training in the principles of order which govern alike the 
selection of a bureau or the plan ning of a public Hbrary . There must be 
a reasonable amount of practice according to these principles and a 
very strict connection between such practice and the work in manual 
training and domestic science. 

It is with this conviction that the art course at the Brookline High 
School has been planned. Every pupil of each entering class is obliged to 
take the course for a year. Thirty problems are solved, ten in design, 
ten in representation, and ten in color. Both writing and drawing are a 
necessary part of the course. The writing, which comprises a statement 
of principles and simple criticisms involving their practical applica- 
cation, is done in a notebook illustrated by the pupil with sketches or 
with pictures he has collected. For instance, we decide that a curtain 
which is looped back at a window is less restful than one that hangs in 
straight folds because the first arrangement has no harmony with the 
lines of the window frame. Patterns for dress braiding and embroidery 
are discussed in the same way, and girls are surprised and pleased to 
find that they can make more orderly, and therefore more beautiful, 
patterns than many of those in the shops. The boys study order in 
pieces of furniture, fronts of houses and pubHc buildings, and, for apph- 
cation, draw designs for door panellings, book rack ends (later worked on 
out in the shop) and small metal accessories like drawer-pulls, hinges 
and escutcheons. The distinction between the proper uses of design 
and representation forms an important problem since the failure 
to grasp it is the root of many of sofa pillow and wall paper evils. 

In representation we draw objects of common use, chairs, tables, 
kitchen utensils, and vases, for their powerful influence in mak- 
ing the pupil realize and observe the beauty that a line may have if it 
be clearly expressed and appropriate to its use. 

The ten problems in color are planned, Hke those in design, to make 
the pupil familiar with some of the fundamental laws of color balance, 
color rhythm and color harmony, and then to afford him practice in 
accordance with them. Simple exercises in interior decoration are 
given, such as the planning of appropriate schemes for rooms of modern 



392 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

proportions and various exposures. Study of the local decorator's 
windows, of furniture catalogues and paint manufacturers' literature 
accompanies this part of the course, and, wherever a comparison of 
prices is possible it is easy to drive home the important lesson that 
wisely selected, durable and orderly surroundings are also the cheapest. 

Throughout the year the class examines articles in the current mag- 
azines, designs for embroidery and for wood-work, and simple house 
plans, a procedure that helps to counteract the notion all young people 
have, that anything attaining the dignity of type must be praiseworthy; 
it helps also to dampen their admiration for superficial drawing, for 
vacuous pink and white heroines whose hair or bonnet strings trail 
off into nothingness beneath their monotonous chins. Discrimination 
is further encouraged by a weekly exhibition on the bulletin board of 
good drawings in the newspapers, of thoughtful and witty cartoons, 
when we are fortunate enough to find that rarity in America, or of 
interesting art news, such as the opening of the New Museum in 
Boston. This year also there has been a series of lectures before the 
whole school on the selection of house furnishings; one on the subject 
in general, another on furniture, a third on the choice and disposition 
of pictures. 

After the first year the courses in art are optional, and take up in 
more detail the general plan already outlined. In the third year a 
course in the history of architecture is offered, wliich, like the work in 
domestic science, first takes up the broad civic field and then the rela- 
tion of the subject to the individual. The needlework department 
catalogues our designs for sofa pillows, centre pieces, scalloping, mono- 
grams and other embroidery so that when a pattern is needed recourse 
to the magazines or the shops is unnecessary. Moreover the pupil is 
not obliged to carry over knowledge from one subject to another; 
we plan to make the connection between. Thus we give some of our 
lessons in the domestic science laboratory, problems such as a menu 
card, or the scheme of table decoration for a particular meal. 

The effort throughout is to make definite and practical a course 
that parents are prone to regard as vague and useless, to make the 
goal not technique or special ability in draughtmanship, but the in- 
crease in the child's power to see, to express, and to discriminate accord- 
ing to a few simple laws whose power is realized through examination 
and personal experiment. 



PHYSIOLOGY AND COURSES IN HOME ECONOMICS. 

Percy G. Stiles. 

Simmons College. 

The chief reason for giving instruction in physiology to students of 
Home Economics is found in the close relation between this science 
and hygiene — particularly the hygiene of nutrition. But the teacher 
of physiology must always feel reluctant to shght the educational side 
of his subject and its intrinsic interest. No science is better adapted to 
develop the power of inference, the habit of weighing evidence, or the 
rarer faculty of suspending judgment in default of data. None is 
more engrossing when historically treated; few are richer in the per- 
sonaUties of their leading exponents. Surely none have drawn so 
freely uDon the other sciences for their experimental methods — a fact 
which makes physiological papers peculiarly varied and physiological 
technique notably ingenious. 

Regarded as an applied science physiology is the foundation of 
hygiene and to an increasing extent of medicine. An elementary 
knowledge of physiology will do much to clarify one's judgment of 
popular teachings about health and disease, and to make possible some 
appreciation of the aims and achievements of modern medicine. 

There are serious difficulties in the way of successful instruction in 
physiology. The most important is usually the lack of sufficient train- 
ing in the supporting sciences. The physics and chemistry of the 
living body, a realm of the most complex relations, cannot be made 
clear to one who has not learned much of the physics and chemistry 
of the non-Uving world. A minor impediment to such instruction is 
met in the recoil of the immature student from a subject which he finds 
repulsive. This feeling is not often encountered when general biology 
or zoology has preceded physiology. The study of the lower animals 
will usually give an objective habit of thinking, so that when the dis- 
cussion of the human system is begun the pupil will look out and not 
in,\'isuaUzingan impersonal anatomy instead of introspecting her own. 

At Simmons College three courses in physiology are open to students 
of Home Economics. The most advanced of these is given in the 
Junior year and is common to the students of the school of science and 

393 



394 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

to such students of Home Economics as show a marked aptitude for 
biology. These pupils have had two full years of chemistry, one year of 
physics, and one year of biology, consisting of a general introductory 
course followed by one in anatomy and histology. They have had a 
good deal of dissection, microscopical work, and drawing. Their 
course in physiology is not intended to emphasize particular aspects of 
the animal economy but to be a symmetrical treatment of the subject 
nearly as extended as would be given in a medical school. 

An alternative course is offered in the second semester of the Sopho- 
more year. This is provided for the students who elect a minimum of 
biology, and it follows the introductory course mentioned above in 
place of the anatomy and histology. In contrast with the more ad- 
vanced course, this one is frankly asymmetrical, the time devoted to 
nutrition being out of proportion to other divisions. Still it is designed 
to give a fair outline of all the main subjects with a full discussion of 
hygiene. 

The most difficult problem which we face is the presentation of the 
essentials of physiology to the students who are not candidates for the 
degree and who are spending only a year or two at the college. It 
is necessary to give such pupils carefully chosen material, constantly 
bearing in mind their lack of preparation. They have had general 
chemistry but we cannot assume any other foundation upon which to 
build. The arrangement of this course will be discussed at some length. 

No text book is used, the peculiar needs of this class not being met 
by any at present extant. A combination of Hough and Sedgwick's 
Human Mechanism with Fisher's Physiology of Alimentation could 
approximate to the requirement, but would fail to cover the subject 
of metabolism. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory exercises alter- 
nate. The conception of energy and its transformations is constantly 
prominent. In other words the body is viewed as a machine, complex 
indeed but not exempt from physical laws. 

At the outset the cell is dwelt upon as the structural and the living 
unit. Cell-life is illustrated by infusoria and simple plants. When 
these are familiar it is easy to make plain the dependence of animals 
upon green plants and the immense importance of photosynthesis. 

After this biological introduction the attention is directed more 
definitely to the human body. Its anatomy is briefly sketched with 
some reliance on a manikin. The properties of the chief tissues are 
broadly indicated. The distinction between the contractile, glandular, 
and nervous tissues on the one hand — those which are activ'^e in their 
metabolism and the connective and protective structures on the other 



iQio] Physiology and Home Economics 



395 



— those which are relatively stable, is emphasized. Sections of typical 
organs are studied and drawn. After the survey of anatomy it is easy 
to proceed to the subject of coordination, pointing out that there are 
two great factors in the unification of the body's working, the nervous 
and the chemical. The latter mode, the field of internal secretion, is just 
now coming to be estimated at something like its actual importance. 

The central di\dsion of the course is now entered upon. The subject 
is of course the intake and output of the body, with the intervening 
transformations. The time devoted to this discussion is upwards of 
one-half the total. First comes a broad setting forth of the nature of 
foods, and a comparison between their proportionate relation in the 
usual diets and the percentage composition of the body. 

The nature of the digestive changes and their purpose is taken up. 
It is necessary to combat the usual view that digestion is simply a 
means of making the food-stuffs diffusible. The processes involved 
have a deeper significance, the reduction of heterogeneous and foreign 
elements to sim.ple units, or "building stones" in the forcible German 
expression, from which materials proper to the body can be formed. 
" Assimilation " is a key- word here; " naturalization " is a favorite one 
with the writer. The .subject of the enzymes calls for careful treat- 
ment because of its unfamiliar nature. Secretion may be handled more 
briefly but stress needs to be laid on the nervous control of the glands. 
The story of digestion falls naturally into a series of sections, the saliva, 
the stomach, pancreatic digestion, the bile, the intestinal bacteria, the 
colon. The movements of the several divisions of the canal are de- 
scribed in connection with the chemical changes. 

The facts in regard to absorption but not its abstruse theories may 
be given. The composition of the blood and the representation of the 
food-stuffs in it are then considered. The course of the circulation has 
been indicated in the early sketch of the anatomy and as the necessary 
condition of chemical coordination. 

The service of the food-stuffs in the body is the next subject. Con- 
cerning carbohydrates we have to point out that the small but con- 
stant sugar content of the blood is secured through the formation of 
glycogen and of fat from the surplus of incoming sugars and the recon- 
version of glycogen to dextrose during fasting. The ultimate oxida- 
tion of dextrose with the release of energy as heat and work is discussed. 
The metabolism of fat is a simple subject for here we have only storage 
and oxidation to consider, the transformation of fat into sugar being 
unproved. 

Protein metabolism is more difficult to explain to such a class. But 



396 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

the students can understand that much of what we eat in the form of 
protein never regains that rank after the digestive cleavages, but 
merely serves the body as so much carbohydrate would do. One may 
hope to make the pupils see that when foreign proteins are devoted 
to the building of human tissues some waste will be inevitable. A fair 
illustration of the principle is found in the supposition that a house 
is torn down and another house of different architecture built from 
its timbers. There will be many unavailable pieces to discard. The 
discarded material may be turned to account as fuel either in the liv- 
ing body or in the supposed case of the new house. 

The end products of metabolism and their ehmination should be 
treated briefly, respiration finding its place in this connection. Then 
follows the statisticaUdew of nutrition, quantity and proportion of the 
food-stuffs, the calories represented, the upper and lower limits of 
metabolism. The calculation of metabolism from the excreta may be 
explained and, above all, the proof with the calorimeter that the con- 
servation of energy is a principle which the body does not transcend. 

In conclusion, the brain and the sense organs may be allowed a 
few periods, but more as a basis for the discussion of general questions 
of hygiene than to give much detailed knowledge. Having secured 
such a basis we can bring together matter from all parts of our course 
to throw light on practical problems. Some of these are vital resist- 
ance and the factors concerned in it; the nature of fatigue; the causes 
of nutritional disturbance, connected with the diet and not so con- 
nected; alcohol (the much maltreated question); the power and the 
limitations of optimism to insure health; the physiological aspects of 
ventilation, etc. 

We have found the laboratory work the hardest part of such a course 
to render profitable. Some drawing from sHdes (plankton, blood, 
starch, and histological preparations) has been prescribed. Enzyme 
action is best illustrated by salivary digestion and the clotting of milk 
by junket tablets. Varying the temperature, dilution, and other con- 
ditions may serve to extend these observations. Demonstrations of 
some other points are introduced. Among these are the irritability of 
muscle and nerve, the automaticity of the terrapin heart, inhibition 
(of the same), reflex action, and reaction time. It is the writer's 
tendency, after five year's contact with these classes, to subtract 
time from laboratory work and add it to the hours of quizzing and con- 
ference. For technical skill is certainly less the object sought than is a 
broad and general knowledge and an attitude toward the science that 
shall be at once critical and receptive. 



CHEMISTRY FOR STUDENTS OF HOME ECONOMICS. 

James F. Norris. 

Simmons College. 

In entering upon a discussion of the relation of chemistry to Home 
Economics, it would, ev-idently, be a waste of time to attempt to show 
that the correct appreciation of many of the subjects considered as a 
part of the science of the household, can be arrived at only through 
a knowledge of chemistry. I shall rather turn your attention to the 
problem which the teacher of chemistry has to meet in deciding upon 
the aim, the content, and the method of the course in chemistry which 
is best adapted to the needs of students of Home Economics. The pro- 
blem is, I beheve, a most important one and one which is far from 
solved. What I shall say apphes only to college work, and has to do 
with the teaching of chemistry to college students who, on comple- 
tion of their training, are either to teach Home Economics, or apply the 
science in some practical way. 

The value of the course in chemistry to such students is twofold. 
A course, properly conducted, is an important factor in the mental 
development of the student, and it furnishes much information which 
may be appHed more or less directly to her technical work. The most 
important question which the teacher must consider has to do with 
the relation between the amount of emphasis that is to be put on the 
educational and on the informational aspect of the course. The answer 
to this question determines the content and method of the course. It 
is my opinion that the educational value of chemistry has been largely 
overlooked in the endeavor to apply the science to the problems of the 
household, and to furnish the get-educated-quick student with a lot 
of so-called useful information. 

I am thoroughly convinced that we, at least, who have to deal with 
college students, can find the time to conduct our work in such a way 
that the student gains, to some extent, some of the mental quahties 
which are so noticeably lacking in the majority of girls when they 
enter college. In the first year work we have to deal with a mass of 
happy enthusiasts who are wilHng to learn whatever we set before them. 



397 



398 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

But sometliing more than enthusiasm is needed. For reasons more or 
less clear, the training which the student receives in the high school 
does not lead to that mental development which is a concomitant of 
education. The graduate comes to college with a record of having 
completed satisfactorily work in this and that subject. She has in 
the past been stuffed with certain facts, but most have been forgotten, 
and it is evident that little mental power has been developed in their 
transitory acquisition. She lacks the power of concentration, is 
innocent of logical thinking, and has no conception of how to attack a 
problem. She has the wrong point of view, placing too much reliance 
on authority. She has been trained to rely on her memory, and has 
not been shown how to reason. 

It is an educational crime for us of the colleges to continue to feed 
her with facts unless they are well seasoned by logic. Each one of us 
must feel that we have a sacred duty to develop the minds of our stu- 
dents — to assist materially in their education. When they leave us they 
should be capable of more accurate reasoning, and should have devel- 
oped to some extent the power to weigh cause and effect. 

I believe that the aim of m.uch of the teaching of chemistry to stu- 
dents of Home Economics has been purely informational. I do not 
believe, for example, that the practice of teacliihg the chemistry of 
foods to students, who ha.ve had some time in the past a course in chem- 
istry in the high school, is a sound one, and yet this is done. The results 
are most distressing. Egregious blunders are made by the graduate, 
who has, perhaps, hydrolyzed starch, used Fehling's solution, and pre- 
cipitated proteins, but is ignorant of the principles of chemistry. 

Let me now outline the way in which we are attempting to solve the 
problem in the institution with which I am connected. I want to say 
at the outset that many details of the various courses in chemistry are 
changed each year — we are not sure of ourselves yet — but the general 
plan of the courses has been arrived at as the result of the careful 
watching of results for several years. 

In the first year the students follow a rather thorough course in 
inorganic chemistry. Eight hours each week throughout the year are 
given to this work. There are two lectures, two recitations, and four 
hours of laboratory work. The sections are small and each student 
receives individual attention. The prime aim of the course is to 
develop power in the student. Many applications of chemistry to 
daily life are presented, and whenever possible the student is en- 
couraged to observe and explain by what she has learned in class, the 



igio] Chemistry and Home Economics 399 

chemical phenomena she meets. The recitations are an important 
part of the course. Here clearness of expression is insisted upon as an 
evidence of clear thinking. After a number of facts have been learned 
a question or problem is proposed, the solution of which requires the 
use of these facts. The endeavor is constantly made to make the 
student reason. Such training as this is, of course, valuable with all 
students, but it is particularly necessary in the case of girls. 

Toward the end of the first year the student is given a number of 
simple compounds to identify. The work is not routine qualitative 
analysis, and few directions are given. The student is left more or 
less to her own devices in finding out w^hat she has in hand. She has 
accumulated throughout the course most of the facts which are neces- 
sary in the identification of the substances given to the class. She 
must use her wits and common sense in bringing to bear her knowledge 
in the particular problem before her. Much of good comes from such 
work, although it is slow and the teacher is often discouraged. 

All students of Household Economics who are candidates for degrees 
take the course in general inorganic chemistry. At the end of the year 
we find that some have developed materially under the treatment, and 
some have not. We have come to the parting of the ways. Those who 
have proved themselves capable of winning their w^ay in science, and 
who show an interest in scientific things are encouraged to make the 
best of their capabiUties in an extended study of chemistry. Those 
who have not shown such interest, but have satisfied the requirement 
in the chemistry of the first year, pursue work in decoration, design, 
sewing, and similar subjects. It is considered necessary, however, that 
these students should know more of chemistry than what they have 
gained in the course of the first year. They follow for half a year, 
eight hours per week, a course which is designed to give them such 
information in regard to organic chemistry and foods as is needed for 
an understanding of future work in physiology and dietaries. This 
course is largely informational. It includes much that is often given 
under the name of food chemistry, such as a study of such typical 
substances as eggs, milk, bread, meat, soap, etc. The work includes 
the testing for preservatives, and the quaUtative examination of baking 
powders and other substances. 

We have learned by experience that this minimum requirement of a 
year and a half in chemistry is best suited to the need of our students. 
But opportunity is offered for those who will profit by a broader view 
of the subject to devote a part of their time throughout the four years 



400 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

to a thorough study of the science. Many students have availed them- 
selves of this opportunity. 

Those who elect at the end of the first year to emphasize chemistry 
in their course, follow in the first half of the second year a course in 
organic chemistry in which the principles of the science are discussed 
in some detail Most of the time is devoted to a rather full con- 
sideration of the fatty compounds, as this part of organic chemis- 
try is of particular importance to the student of the chemistry 
of foods. The subject is treated in sufficient detail so that the student 
will be able to understand the significance of the analytical methods 
of food analysis which she will meet later. For example, the chemistry 
of fats and carbohydrates is treated fully, and the student is carried 
far enough in the chemistry of the proteins to follow the work of Fischer 
on the poK-peptids. The course is assentiaJly pure organic chemistry, 
although the fact is kept in mind that the students have for their goal 
the study of foods in their chemical and physiological aspects. 

In the second term these students spend seven hours per week learn- 
ing the elements of quantitative analysis. We are of the opinion that 
familiarity with the methods of quantitative analysis is a necessary 
prerequisite of good work in food chemistry. The teacher of this 
subject who must spend a large share of his time in drilling his students 
in technique is much hampered. The student, therefore, spends two 
years preparing herself to take up the study of foods. During this 
time her mental faculties have been developed, she has gained much 
useful information, and has learned the use of her tools. 

All the time devoted to chemistry in the third year — eight hours 
per week throughout the year — is given over to the study of foods. 
Here the standard methods of analysis are studied and attention i-s 
given to the quantitative analysis of water and of air. The work 
includes some qualitative experiments in elementary physiological 
chemistry. This side of the course is to be deve'oped next year and we 
hope that the student may gain a more definite conception of the chemi- 
cal problems involved in metaboHsm. The work in the course is 
largely done in the laboratory, but one hour per week is spent in con- 
ferences in the class room. Toward the end of the course a definite 
problem is assigned to each student for solution. These problems are 
simple, but the reading necessary and the planning of the laboratory 
work are helpful in developing resourcefulness. 

The regular course in chemistry for students of Household Econo- 
mics ends with the work in the chemistry of foods in the third year. 



19 lo] Chemistry and Home Economics 401 

But a number of those who have completed the work which I have out- 
lined have expressed a desire to continue the study of chemistry in the 
fourth year, and provision has been made for such students. Oppor- 
tunity is here offered for the detailed study of some problem in the 
chemistry of foods. Certain students elect courses in chemistry which 
are in the regular program of the school of science. One course given 
in this school is planned to review and amplify the course in inorganic 
chemistry. Special emphasis is put on the problem of teaching inor- 
ganic chemistry to beginners. This course is taken by students of 
Household Economics who are preparing themselves to teach chemis- 
try in addition to the subjects of their own profession. I believe such 
a course is of great value to the students and that they should be en- 
couraged to continue the study of chemistry in the fourth year of their 
work. I also beHeve that work of a general character which broadens 
their outlook on chemistry is of infinitely more value than the detailed 
study of some particular subject which may appear to have a direct 
bearing on the chemistry of foods. A student who lacks a broad train- 
ing in chemistry is wasting her time in spending hours on investigating 
the proteins of wheat, or the constituents of corn oil. 

We hope to prepare in' such a course teachers of Household Econo- 
mics who are able to appreciate the bearing of chemistry on their 
work, who are able to solve the problems as they arise by scientific 
methods, who are able to keep up with the advances in science which 
have a bearing on their work, and who are able to teach better as the 
result of a broad scientific point of^view. I do not mean that the teacher 
thus trained will dispense all her knowledge of science to an unfor- 
tunate class of beginners. The more one knows of a subject the more 
efl5ciently is that knowledge used. A full knowledge breeds caution. 
The more one knows the less one frequently teaches, the less the chance 
of teaching what is wrong. A teacher who has been well trained in 
chemistry will be able to apply the science in a sane manner in her 
instruction, and will make the student realize the importance of chemis- 
try and the dignity of the technical subjects in Home Economics. 
There is, or should be, a demand for teachers of Home Economics, 
who are well trained in general science and who have what, for a 
better term, may be called a scientific point of view. I think the day 
of empirical knowledge is passing and that the colleges are beginning 
to graduate students who will put the instruction of Home Economics 
on a higher plane. 

In conclusion, let me briefly summarize the opinions which I have 



402 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

put forward. I believe that in the work in chemistry the mental devel- 
opment of the student is of paramount importance, that the principles 
of chemistry should be emphasized, and that the many chemical facts 
related to Household Economics should be taught only as illustrations 
or apphcations of these principles. I have also expressed the opinion 
that we should recognize that Home Economics may be divided into 
two distinct branches — the scientific and non-scientific — and that we 
should plan the work for our students with this fact in mind. I have 
outlined courses which have been adopted as meeting the requirements 
of those preparing themselves for activity in the two branches indi- 
cated. For those who expect to apply chemistry in their future work 
a thorough training in the science is insisted upon — a training which is 
received only as the result of the student's devoting an appreciable 
share of her time throughout three or four years to the study of chemis- 
try. Some may say that I have unduly emphasized the place of chemis- 
try, and that I have placed the standard too high. What's worth doing 
is worth doing well. If we profess to apply chemistry to Household 
Economics, let us see to it that we know our chemistry. It is well to 
aim high anyhow. The arrow will fall as it flies on its course and if 
we aim a little high we are more apt to hit the mark. 



COURSES IN HOME ECONOMICS AS RELATED TO DE- 
PARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE WORK. 

JU ANITA L. ShEPPERD 

Instructor in Cooking, Laundering, and Home Economics, Minnesota College and School of 

Agriculture 

The prime object of a course in Home Economics is to train young 
women and girls to be home makers. The reason for this is that home- 
making is the chosen profession of the great majority of women, and 
competition in the commercial world is so great as to render it neces- 
sary that mothers bear the greater portion of the burden incident to 
the rearing of children and keeping the home, the father's time being 
largely consumed with business. 

Since there are a few women who wish to enter professional lines, 
and many who desire to become more proficient in the domestic arts 
but do not feel that they have time and money for a regular college 
course, schools of domestic science usually also offer courses which 
will prepare women for some other vocation in addition to that of 
homemaking. 

As commonly taught in schools, courses in Home Economics have, 
then, ths following objects: 

(i) Training women for home-makers; (2) training them for fill- 
ing administrative positions in institutions where large numbers are 
housed and fed, and where competent supervisors are needed in pro- 
viding supplies and preserving sanitary conditions, or for teaching 
domestic science in city schools, rural schools, and in other secondary 
schools for girls; (3) fitting them to be teachers in colleges or to be 
analysts in experiment stations, pubhc health laboratories, etc. 

As a preparation for any of these pursuits, the student must be 
put into possession of such knowledge as will be useful and readily 
available, not only at the present time, but through life. The per- 
ceptive powers must be trained to accuracy and alertness and the 
judgment and reasoning powers well developed. A person must 
understand the physical and human forces about him in order to be 
able to use them in advancing his own interests without infringing 
upon those of others, and if he hopes to succeed he must be able to 
do things that are worth while, and do them in a popular yet correct 



403 



404 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[October 



and scientific manner. The same fundamental knowledge is neces- 
sary to all who would attain success in either domestic science or art. 
Hence, all courses in domestic science or Home Economics should 
include the same fundamental branches for training m nd and hand. 

Those who wish to become skilled laborers or business experts along 
this line take more of the general culture studies, and add much 
technical knowledge to the fund already acquired. Those who wish 
to become college professors or analysts must pursue, in addition to 
those studies taken by the other two classes, a large number of gen- 
eral culture and scientific subjects. 

As an illustration of the work now offered along these several lines 
by a relatively high-grade institution, the courses now offered at the 
University of Minnesota are given below: 



HOME ECONOMICS TRAINING OFFERED BY THE 
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA. 

Agricultural High School Course (School of Agriculture). 



FIRST year 



First term: 



Agricultural botany 4^ 

Drawing 2 

Music 2 

Farm mathematics 5 

Cooking 4 

Physical training 2 

Sewing 4 

Social culture i 

Field agriculture 3 



First term: 



English 2 

Agricultural physics 5 

Dairy chemistry 2 

Dairy husbandry 5 

Fruit growing 3 

Music 2 

Farm accounts 4 

Cooking 4 

Household art i 

Physical training 2 

Sewing 4 



Second term: 



Agricultural botany 5 

English 5 

Music or literary society work 2 

Comparative physiology 5 

Study of breeds 5 

Laundering 4 

Drawing farm houses 4 

Physical training 2 

Farm accounts 4 



SECOND YEAR. 



Second term: 



English a 

Agricultural chemistry 5 

Dairy husbandry 5 

Music 2 

Agricultural physics 5 

Vegetable gardening 3 

Cooking 4 

Home management i 

Physical training 2 

Sewing 4 



1 Hours per week. 



IQIOJ 



Courses in Home Economics 



40s 



THIRD YEAR. 



First term: 



Second term: 



Agricultural chemistry 7 

Forestry 3 

Zoology 3 

Poultry 3 

Algebra 5 

Cooking 4 

Sewing 4 

Music 2 

Home nursing optional 



Civics or English 4 

Plant propagation 3 

Entomology and insect collec- 
tion 3 

Algebra* 5 

Meats 1 

Home economy 1 

Cooking 6 

Domestic chemistry 3 

Sewing 6 

Domestic hygiene i 



Normal Course in Home Economics. 



FIRST YEAR. 



First semester: 

Advanced rhetoric 3 

Principles of teaching 3 

Field agriculture 3 

Agricultural chemistry 6 

Agricultural botany 6 

Entomology (first half) 3 

Elements of domestic science 4 

Elementary sewing 4 

The family 3 

Domestic science 4 

Position of woman 3 

Physical training a 



Second semester: 

Advanced rhetoric 3 

Domestic chemistry 6 

Vegetable gardening (first half) 3 

Plant propagation (last half) 3 

Poultry (last half) 3 

Meats 2 

Elements of domestic science 4 

Elementary sewing 4 

Designs in drafting 4 

Freehand drawing 4 

General bacteriology 6 

Domestic hygiene 3 

Bread making 3 

Physical training a 



SECOND YEAR. 



First semester: 

Domestic science practice 

teaching 4 

The home 3 

Methods in domestic science 4 

Household art 4 

Fruit growing 3 

Chemistry of foods 6 

Industrial education 3 

Domestic art 3 

Domestic service 3 

General elective 3 



Second semester: 

Household sanitation 2 

Methods of domestic science 4 

Textiles 4 

Domestic science practice 

teaching 4 

Methods in domestic science. 4 

Domestic chemistry 4 

Floriculture 3 

Nursing and dietetics 3 

Drawing and designing 4 

General elective 3 



* Required of those intending to enter the College of Agriculture. 



4o6 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[October 



Full Collegiate Course in HoiiE Economics. 

FRESHMAN YEAR. 



First semester: 

Science, literature, French or 
German, economics 23 



Second semester: 

Science, literature, French or 
German, economics (elective) 26 



SOPHOMORE YEAR. 



First semester: 

Science, hterature, French or 

German 24 

Domestic science 4 

The home 3 

Principles of teaching 3 



Second semester; 

Science, hterature, French or 

German 24 

Household sanitation 2 

Bread making 2 

General bacteriology 4 



JUNIOR YEAR. 



First semester: 



Physiology and ecology 6 

Position of woman 3 

Advanced designing 6 

Methods in domestic science 4 

Industrial education 3 

Quantitative chemistry 7 

Chemistry of foods 3 

Floriculture 3 

General elective 3 



Second semester: 

Physiology and ecology 6 

Domestic art 6 

Domestic science practice 

teaching 4 

Analysis of foods 6 

Farm structures 3 

Designing 4 

Textiles 3 

General elective 3 



SENIOR YEAR. 



First semester: 

Domestic service 3 

Household art 3 

Domestic science practice 

teaching 4 

Farm structures 3 

Agricultural elective 3 

General electives 6 



Second semester: 

Teachers course 3 

Handicraft 3 

Advanced domestic chemistry. 3 

General electives 9 



The Junior and Senior electives available include agriculture, 
agricultural engineering, animal nutrition, botany, dairy husbandry, 
domestic art, domestic science, drawing and designing, economics, 
education, entomology, geology, horticulture, psychology, political 
science and vegetable pathology. 

The agricultural high school course prepares women for homemakers, 
and also gives sufficient knowledge for entering the normal and col- 



igio] Courses in Home Economics 407 

lege courses. A certificate of graduation is given at the end of the 
third year. A fourth year in high school work in general academic 
studies is required of those who have not had general high school 
training. 

Credits in Home Economics for the eight years covered by the 
high school and the full college work amount to 488 out of a total 
of 1200. The degree of B.S. is given at the end of the four years' 
collegiate course. 

A few words will serve to make clear the fact that hand and mind 
are readily trained together and that such a union of physical and 
mental training enables a student more readily to interpret things in 
the world about her, and consequently to use and enjoy them much 
more thoroughly. 

The work in the sciences as given in the first two courses does not 
attempt to cover all the principles of the subjects under discussion, 
but deals mth matter from the housekeeper's standpoint. Both 
laboratory and lecture room experiments are largely those which 
have been developed in the class room, and seem to the writer to 
be of a much more practical nature than those usually found in text 
books 

The appHcation of many of the principles brought out in the study 
of physiology and hygiene may be readily demonstrated by the teacher 
in sewine. Thus, sewing as a fundamental study in a course in 
domestic science not only gives to a student the elements necessary 
to needlework in the home, and puts her in possession of such knowl- 
edge as will enable her to fashion garments, use colors properly, and 
select fabrics economically and wisely, but also teaches her that the 
object of clothing is not merely to adorn the wearer, but that it should 
first serve hygienic purposes, and afterward be planned to suit indi- 
vidual taste and conform to the requirements of fashion. 

Fashion, she learns, should be followed only in such particulars 
as will cause no infringement on the laws of nature. To serve its 
legitimate purpose, clothing must permit a circulation of air, skin 
breathing and free evaporation. It should not only not impede these 
processes, but should aid in the performance of such normal body 
fimctions. When mind and spirit are trained at the same time, 
students realize that an observance of nature's laws does not pro- 
hibit the use of dress as a means of enhancing beauty, but that by 
the use of right materials and colors, severe outhnes can be softened 
and ugly forms rendered more pleasing. Outward costume may be 



4o8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

very elaborate, but must be considered entirely apart from necessary 
clothing if it interferes by tightness, weight or imperviousness of 
material with the function of true clothing. 

The students are helped to reahze that although men are freer will 
agents the laws of hygiene cannot be disregarded; on the other hand, 
they must never lose sight of the fact that the observance of hygienic 
laws means good health in the ordinary course of events, and that 
their nonobservance means poor health, that nature's laws are inexor- 
able and that when they are broken, a penalty is unavoidable. 

The principles of light and color as taught in physics are so applied 
that students may have a clearer knowledge of the proper lighting of 
school or dwelling houses and may be able better to understand the 
principles underlying combinations of colors and to apply them in 
matters of dress, housefurnishing and decorating. 

In this fundamental course only so much on the subject of textiles 
is taught as will enable a woman to become sufficiently well acquainted 
with the economic and esthetic value of the four commonly used 
materials, cotton, wool, linen, and silk, so that when later she is face 
to face with such problems she may be able, by observing, thinking 
and studying, to clothe her family and furnish her house economically 
tastefully and well. One who wishes to become a business woman, or 
a teacher in the textile branch of Home Economics, must delve deeper 
into the subject of textiles, must study the history of dyeing, spinning 
and weaving, and the methods by which different fibers are combined 
in making cloth, etc. She must learn to express art more fully in 
color schemes for rooms, clothing and furniture. In short, she must 
get a fuller meaning of art and architecture in their application to a 
beautiful and comfortable home 

Man early learned that shelter of some kind is necessary as a pro- 
tection from inclement weather and from the extremes of heat and 
cold, but the idea of uniting beauty and utility in house-building did 
not come until later when civilization was much more advanced. At 
the present time women who study domestic science realize that a 
house owned has many advantages over one which is rented, and that 
either is preferable to keeping house in mere rooms, or to boarding — 
even though this be under the most favorable circumstances, as in 
an apartment house or a family hotel. 

A detached house gives not only unity and privacy to a family, 
but the sense of ownership which it may also afford aids in building 
character in children, for such active and busy creatures are impressed 



ipio] Courses in Home Economics 409 

by their environment and learn much from it. The grass, shrubs, 
and flowers which a house and lawn or even a house and back yard 
render possible, give children an idea of nature which they cannot 
gain from an acquaintance with cut-flowers and greenhouse collec- 
tions. With such a larger or smaller piece of ground there is often 
the opportunity to keep domestic animals for pets or profit, and chil- 
dren who have animal pets learn not only to love and respect them, 
but also acquire a view of domestic animals in their relation to man 
which is different from that common to children who know only the 
horse and the dog as seen on the street, and the sheep and cow as 
their dressed carcasses are displayed in the market, ready to serve 
as food for man. To children of cities or towns who cannot see the 
birds, flowers and beasts in their native groves and fields, an educated 
mother who will properly supervise thdr reading and will direct their 
attention in parks, zoological gardens, etc. is a blessing. 

A course in domestic science aims also to apply general culture 
studies in a concrete way. For example, mechanical drawing deals 
with plans for dwelling houses and the subject of home management, 
which follows it, treats of the proper care of the house as well as with 
all things in and about it. Thus the ideas gained in architectural 
drawing find practical appHcation, the impressions given become last- 
ing, and the knowledge is available at any time during life. 

It is sometimes said that if the work in kitchens were done by men 
that part of the house would be reconstructed. We have but to 
compare some kitchens with the workshops and laboratories of men 
to be convinced that too little thought is given to planning this, "the 
heart of the housa," the part in which the food necessary to the life 
and health of the family is prepared. 

No woman who is properly trained in domestic science fails to 
devote thought and energy to home conditions. She may not be able 
to reconstruct her house, because after a house is built changes are 
expensive and troublesome, but if such a woman can plan a new house 
for a home, she will arrange it so that she and all those who assist in 
the care of it will walk many miles less in doing the kitchen work 
than do some women. She will see that the kitchen sink, laundry 
tubs, gaslight, and hooks in the closet are put up with some relation 
to the height of the occupants of the house, and not of uniform height, 
as is the general custom. She readily knows that a few inches dif- 
ference in the height of sinks, tubs, and range makes a difference in 
the physical and mental attitude of a woman doing housework, because 



4IO The Journal of Home Economics [October 

under proper conditions less energy is required, the muscles are less 
rigid and the mind more free while performing duties which require 
that the body be kept for some time in one position. 

A glance at proposed outlines of lessons on food will show that 
although food and nutrition are the special objects of study, sufficient 
time must be devoted to the subjects of physics, botany, and chem- 
istry to give students a good knowledge of the principles underlying 
these subjects. The application of general principles to special 
courses in the teaching of domestic science aids much in securing 
for it the place which it deserves in the popular estimation of a 
w^oman's education. 

Applied science can so readily be made to follow pure science and 
problems bearing on household affairs are so easily arranged that 
students in all the courses not only enjoy the pure science more because 
they know that it is soon to be applied in kitchen and laundry, but 
they have a keener interest in the results of experiments, and a better 
memory for illustrations used. 

In physics, for instance, the principles of solution are so taught that 
a girl knows why she uses gasoline or benzine, etc., for removing 
grease from wearing apparel, or kerosene to clean the bearings of her 
sewing machine. The principles of evaporation and of the diffusion 
of gases are taught, so that she may know why gasoline is more 
dangerous at ordinary temperature than kerosene, and why a full 
lamp or a full can of kerosene could not explode, while one only partly 
filled might do so, especially after standing in the sunlight or in a 
warm place. 

From the study of capillarity she learns why a lamp-wick should 
be discarded before it has gotten so short that it will not reach the 
kerosene, and why it is desirable to keep open the small air-channels 
at the side of the wick. 

From her study of air currents and of heat she learns why her stove 
smokes on some days and not on others, especially if the top of the 
chimney is lower than the highest part of the roof; and how the 
chimney extending to the bottom of the cellar, with an adjustable 
opening there, may be used to warm the cellar in winter and to freshen 
the air at any time. She learns why, in general, provisions for a 
foul-air shaft or vent are important in her home and in the school 
building. 

A knowledge of the fundamental laws of heating and ventilating is 
of great value to the teacher, and also to the home-maker, because a 



igio] Courses in Home Economics - 411 

child who breathes pure air and is always comfortable is best pre- 
pared to receive and retain such knowledge and training as are the 
ground-work of good citizenship. 

In domestic science courses, cookery is put on a scientific basis and 
thus enlists the powers of many of the best young women who enter 
the college courses. Attention is given to such subjects as dietary 
studies of families, cost and value of foods, losses in the cooking and 
preparation of foods, cereal food products, animal food products, 
adulterations of foods and their detection; fuels, soaps, dye stuffs 
and colors, composition of common household utensils, the household 
water supply, preparation of home-made baking powder, baker's 
cheoaicals, composition, food value and characteristics of tea, coflfee, 
chocolate, cocoa, molasses, honey, vinegar and spices, the grading 
and testing of wheat flour, and the chemistry of bread-making. 

The threads of connection between chemistry, physics, etc., and 
those studies pertaining to domestic science are so knit and woven 
together as to bring all the studies into one coherent body of interest- 
ing facts. Even arithmetic as appHed in cooking and sewing ceases 
to be a dry study, because it is always used in the concrete, and the 
accuracy necessary in domestic science helps in forming good habits 
in other classes. 

The study of accounts, when appUed in domestic science, becomes 
the handmaid of home economy. Women in general have Uttle idea 
of business methods, and the knowledge gained in this simple system 
of bookkeeping helps to strengthen the judgment and render the 
observation keener and quicker, as well as to form a basis for a system 
of household accounts which aims to train girls in the right use of 
money. 

In this a study is made of just proportions between expenditure 
and income, also of a definite proportion to be expended for existence, 
comfort, and philanthropy. A study of the sources of income and 
of the purchase of household stores and furnishings, as well as cloth- 
ing, is considered from the standpoint of the suitable. 

The relation of cash and credit to cost is considered, and attention 
is given to savings and forms of investment, to bank accounts and 
to the use of a check-book. At the end of the allotted time students 
are required to submit an account setting forth in detail the use of a 
certain named income expended for the support of a family for one 
year, embracing not only every item of necessary home expense, but 
also an outlay made for travel, luxuries, accident, sickness or other 



412 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

emergencies. When hand and mind are thus trained together along 
the entire Une of home duties these rise in dignity, and housework 
ceases to be looked upon as a drudgery. Women thus educated have 
a sound notion of values in both money and occupation. They realize 
that the mind is as necessary a tool to successful women as it is 
to the shrewd business man, and that it must be as constantly used 
if they will keep their interests active, their tastes perfect, and their 
impulses effective. 

The subject of nutrition is one which must of necessity occupy a 
large place in any perfect course in domestic science. It is also one 
in which there are few satisfactory text-books in the English language. 
Teachers depend for their data largely on special text and refer- 
ence books, and on the publications of the United States Department 
of Agriculture, particularly those which have been issued by the 
Office of Experiment Stations in connection with its nutrition investi- 
gations. 



THE AMOUNT OF EDIBLE MEAT IN THE VARIOUS 
CUTS FROM ANIMALS OF KNOWN LIFE HISTORIES.^ 

Flora Hartley Greene. 

The scientific cooking of meat in America is still in its infancy. 
The methods used have been the ones handed down from the grand- 
mothers, or those devised by unskilled cooks, neither one of which 
is likely to lead to great advancement. 

In its higher development the cooking has followed the English 
method of developing the flavor inherent in the meat, and this method 
has been more or less successful because our supply comes from an 
abundance of well-fed, well-matured animals. 

The most extended scientific work on the cooking of meats has 
been carried on at the University of Illinois. At that institution 
Prof. H. S. Grindley, with a corps of able assistants, has beenwork- 
ing since 1904 on some of the problems of cooking meat. He has 
done much valuable work and obtained some unexpected results, and 
we may hope for much more in the future from his laboratory. 

The work of Professor Grindley indicates that the digestibility of 
meat is not dependent upon the cut of meat.^ He finds that a cut 
of meat from the shoulder digests about as readily and completely 
as one from the loin, the differences in digestibility being too small 
to be considered. He also finds that the method of cooking has 
little effect on the nutritive value of the meat. He says, "In general 
the various methods of cooking materially modify the appearance, 
texture, and flavor of the meat, and hence its palatability, but have 
little effect on the total nutritive value."^ 

If this be true, then one may choose a cut of meat from any place 
in the animal he wishes and cook it as he pleases, and yet in the end 
have meat that is equally nutritive and digestible if its composition is 
the same to begin with. 

^ A thesis presented to the College of Agriculture of the University of Missouri, 
June, 1909, in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of master of 
science. 

^U. S. Dept. Agr., Office of Experiment Stations, Bull. 193, p. 100. 

^ U. S. Dept. Agr., Office of Experiment Stations, Bull. 162, p. 230. 



413 



414 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM. 

My series of experiments was undertaken with the thought of 
studying the composition of the different cuts of meat from the house- 
keeper's standpoint, to determine what cuts will furnish the most edible 
meat for a given amount of money. 

These experiments are based entirely upon results obtained by 
accurate weighings. The cooked meat has not been chemically 
analyzed and hence the nutritive value of the meat is not here dis- 
cussed. So far as I have been able to learn from the literature, no 
one else has attempted this problem. 

The opportunity presented was an unusual one for, through the 
courtesy of the Experiment Station of the University of Missouri, it 
was made possible for me to secure exactly similar cuts from a series 
of animals which were being studied in nutrition experiments of the 
station. 

APPARATUS. 

The apparatus used in these experiments is all simple and was 
selected on the basis of adaptability to the purpose. 

The oven. — The oven was an ordinary gas range oven, heated by 
two cylinder burners placed beneath. A wire frame or oven grate 
was placed on the lowest support in the oven. This raised the bottom 
of the roasting pan one inch from the bottom of the oven and allowed 
complete circulation of heated air around the roast. The tempera- 
ture of the oven was determined by a centigrade thermometer which 
was inserted into the oven through a small hole in the center of one 
side of the oven. This brought the bulb of the thermometer to the top 
and side of the roast. It could be read without opening the oven door. 

The Roasting Pan. — The pan used for all the roasts was made of 
granite iron. It was oval in shape, with a concave bottom, and was 
i8 by 15 by 3I in. in dimensions. No cover was used in any of the 
experiments in roasting, and no water was used with any of the roasts. 

The Support. — Several different supports were used in an effort 
to find one that would hold any roast high enough from the bottom 
of the pan to escape all drippings, and be easily cleaned of all fat and 
extractives. The one most used was made from a sheet of brass 12 
by 6 in. The four corners were turned sharply down one inch, and 
the whole of it polished very smooth. Such a piece in porcelain would 
be much better. 



1910] Amount of Edible Meat in Various Cuts 415 

The Braising Kettle.— An old fashioned six quart brass kettle was 
used for the braising. It was found very satisfactory because it could 
be heated very hot in searing the roast at the beginning of the experi- 
ment, and its thick walls made it easy to keep a constant temperature. 
A close-fitting tin lid with a hole for the insertion of the thermometer 
covered it. 

The Boiling Kettle.— The boiling kettle was one of ordinary granite 
iron with a fitted lid. The lid was perforated for the thermometer. 

The Thermometers. — The thermometers used were ordinary glass 
rod Centigrades. The one used for internal meat temperature was 
calibrated to read 100°. This gave wide spaces and brought the 
point to be read above the surface of the thick roasts. 

The Balance. — The balance used was an ordinary spring torsion 
and the weights were of brass and read to one gram. 

THE CUTS OF MEAT USED. 

(i) BeeJ Loaf. — The beef loaves were of two kinds, ground meat 
from the neck and chuck, and ground meat from the flank and plate. 

(2) Boiling Pieces.— Thest pieces were the plate pieces that are 
cut from the ends of rib roasts and consequently varied with the rib 
roasts. 

(3) Round Roast or Braise.— Tlas roast was made from the entire 
large muscle on the outside of the upper end of the round cut. It is 
what is usually spoken of as the tough side, and was cut about 
three inches thick. 

(4) Rib Roast.— The rib roasts used were cut the standing length 
and included the sixth and seventh ribs and the eleventh and twelfth 
ribs, counting from the head backward. The cuts were made exactly 
between the adjoining ribs. Each roast was completely boned, rolled, 
and tied ready for roasting by the butcher. 

(5) Porter House Steaks.— These were cut thick and were the cut 
just forward of the porter house roast. 

(6) Porter House Roast.— These roasts included the last two verte- 
brae of porter house cut and were cut short and not boned. 

METHODS OF COOKING. 

Beef Loaf. — The meat was ground quite fine and then thoroughly 
mixed with weighed amounts of different condiments and materials 



4i6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

for retaining within the loaf its juice and fat. Egg, cracker crumbs, 
salt, pepper, sage and cloves were used in the different loaves. An 
effort was made to retain all the juice of the meat and just as much 
fat as possible and still make the loaf the most palatable. After mix- 
ing, the loaf was rubbed smooth over the outside and placed on the 
support in the roasting pan. The meat was placed in the oven when 
it registered 250° C. The oven was held at that temperature for fifteen 
minutes, when the fire was turned off and the oven cooled slowly till 
it reached 175°. The fire was then re-lighted and the oven kept at 
175° until the internal temperature of the loaf was 65°. The loaf was 
then weighed and served. The fat dripping was weighed; the pan 
and support carefully washed to remove all extractives, the wash 
water then being analyzed to determine the nitrogen content. The 
weight of added condiments and crackers A'as deducted from the 
weight of the cooked loaf, and the result was called edible meat. 
The dripping was called waste fat. The material left in the pan 
other than fat dripping was called extractives. 

No water was used in roasting any of the meats and no cover was 
used on the roasting pan. 

Boiling Pieces or Stews. — The boiling pieces used in these experi- 
ments were from the navel end of the plate, and two methods were 
used in their preparation. The meat was cut into pieces of a suitable 
size for stewing, and excessive fat was removed and considered as 
waste fat. The meat was placed in a granite iron kettle with a closely 
fitting lid. A small but measured amount of boiling water was added 
and a thermometer inserted. The amount of water varied with the 
amount of meat and the size of the kettle, but the effort was to use 
just as little water as possible. After adding the water the meat 
was kept over the hot flame until the whole mass was just boiling, 
which was in from three to five minutes. The kettle was then 
placed over the "simmerer" and kept at 85° C. until the meat was 
tender. This required from six to ten hours. The meat was then 
thoroughly drained, and the bone removed and weighed. The excess 
fat was cut away and all the waste or inedible material removed 
and weighed. In one method, the edible meat was weighed and 
served as boiled meat, meat pie, various stews, and as hash or 
croquettes. The liquid in the kettle was chilled, and the fat removed. 
The remaining hquid was analyzed for nitrogen content. 

Others of these boiling pieces were cooked until they were very 
tender and could be easily pulled into bits. The excess fat and wastes 



1910] Amount of Edible Meat in Various Cuts 417 

of all kinds were removed and the edible meat was shredded. Condi- 
ments of various kinds were added and the liquor remaining in the 
kettle was poured over it and the whole placed to harden under press- 
ure. The result was a very tasty bit of cold meat, with a larger per- 
centage of fat embodied in it than in the boiling pieces cooked by the 
preceding method. 

Braised Round. — A small bit of fat was cut from the round and tried 
out in a brass kettle. If the round did not have enough fat for this 
purpose, 20 gms. of fresh lard was added. The round was placed 
in the kettle and turned over and around until it was well seared all 
over. A small support was then placed ir the bottom of the kettle 
to allow circulation of water underneath the meat. A weighed amount 
of boiling water was then added, as small in amount as possible, to 
keep the meat from burning. The kettle was then placed over the 
"simmerer" and kept at 85° C. until the meat was tender. 

For braised meat to be best it should be cooked in this manner, 
but also have vegetables or wine and spices added to the water. These 
were all omitted in these experiments because they would have made 
the determination of actual weight of edible meat more complicated. 

This method of cooking meat has been in use for hundreds of years. 
The earlier and perhaps better method was to have a cup-shaped lid 
for the pot. Into this lid hot coals were placed, so that the top of the 
meat was browned while the lower part was kept in water. 

Rolled Rib Roast. — The rolled rib roasts were placed on a support 
that held it above all possible drippings in the bottom of the pan, 
and so that the part of the outside having the most fat should be at 
the top. This insured a continuous basting of the roast with its own 
fat and without any further thought from the experimenter. 

The roast was placed in the oven when the temperature was 250° 
C. It was there held for 15 to 20 minutes, depending upon the size 
of the roast. The heat was then turned off and the oven cooled grad- 
ually to 175°. The fire was then Ughted again and the temperature 
was held at 175° until the internal temperature of the roast was 65°. 
This temperature was determined by thrusting a thermometer down 
through the top of the roast to its center in the thickest portion. 
When the internal temperature had reached the desired degree the 
roast was removed from the oven, and the pan, support, meat, drip- 
pings and all were weighed. The roast was then removed from the 
pan and placed on a platter for serving. The drippings in the pan 
were weighed and recorded as waste fat. The pan and support were 



4i8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

washed with measured amounts of hot water and this water was 
analyzed for nitrogen content. The roast was cut into suitable 
pieces for serving, all excess fat weighed as waste fat, and the meat 
then served. All bits of fat or connective tissue left on the plate 
were collected, assorted and weighed as waste fat, or miscellaneous 
waste. The weight of all this waste fat, miscellaneous waste, strings, 
skewres, etc., was deducted from the weight of the meat just from the 
oven in order to obtain the amount of edible maat. 

No water was used in this roasting and the meat was not basted. 

Porter House Roast — The porter house roast and the standing rib 
roasts were cooked in exactly the same way as the rolled rib roast, 
except that the bone v/as not removed. The roasts were placed on 
the support in the roasting pan with the fat or skin side on top. In 
a very thin animal the leaf fat was removed from the inside of the cut 
and placed on top of the roast and fastened there with wooden 
skewers. This insured the necessary basting with its own fat. 

The roast was weighed, carved and reweighed in exactly the same 
manner as the rib roasts. 

Porter House S eak. — These steaks were placed on an ordinary grill 
which was heated from above. When the broiling oven was 280° C. 
the grill was run under the flame and quite close to it. It was allowed 
to remain here until the meat was well seared, then the steak was 
reversed and seared on the other side. This was continued until 
the internal temperature of the steak registered 60° C. The steaks 
were weighed and served just as were the roasts. The fat remain ng 
in the dripping pan was weighed as waste fat, though its weight is 
not considered of great accuracy, as the amount of fat burned during 
the broiling unavoidably varied considerably. 

HISTORY OF THE ANIMALS USED. 

Meat from five animals was used in the tests. No. 504 was a high 
grade Hereford steer, twenty months old when slaughtered. No. 
48 was a Shorthorn grade steer about four and a-half years old. A 
butcher would class him as "choice but rather too fat for anything 
but the choicest city market." No. 6j was a full-blooded Jersey cow, 
six years old. She had been fed a maintenance milch cow's ration 
all the time, but had been without milk for three months before 
slaughtering. She would be classed in the trade as a "poor cutter." 

The fourth animal was a high grade Hereford steer designated "J," 



IQIOj 



Amount of Edible Meat in Various Cuts 



419 



fed for the show ring. His diet was constantly changed so as to 
tempt him and maki him eat as much as possible. He was given 
all kinds of food from brown sugar and breakfast food to oats and com. 
Every effort was made to make and keep him just as large as possible, 
yet not make him rough. H2 would be classified in the market as 
an "extra choice," but he was too fat for the ordinary trade. 

A pure blood Galloway steer designated "B/' fed for the show ring, 
was also used. When slaughtered he was about three years old. 
His ration was a varied one, planned to make him eat as much as 
possible. He would sell in the market as "choice," 

RESULTS OF COOKING TESTS. 

The average results from the entire series of experiments are pre- 
sented in tabular form below: 



TABLE I. 



Average percentage of edible meat, wastes in cooking, and cost per pound of difereni 
cuts from all the animals used. 



KIND OF MEAT. 



FAT 

WASTE. 



BONE 
WASTE. 



WATER 
LOSS. 



EDIBLE 
MEAT. 



COST 01 

EDIBLE 

MEAT PER 

POUND. 



Beef loaf 

Braised round 

Boiled rib 

Rib roast 

Porter house roast 

Porter house steak 

Average per unit weight 



Per Cent. 
II. 8 

38.2 
24.4 
340 
24.8 



Per Cent. 



9.1 
20.5 
15-7 
139 



Per Cent. 
13.2 
14.4 

10.2 
7.8 
13- 



Per Cent. 
9 



72 

61 

36. 

41 

41. 

42. 



50.0 



Cents. 
20.6 
24.4 
275 
37-5 
61. 1 

63 -3 



390 



PRICES OF MEAT. 



The prices used as a basis for computation in this paper are the 
prices that obtained in the local retail markets in Columbia, Mo., 
during the month of March, 1909, as follows: round steak 15 cts. 
p2r pound; porter-house steak, 25 cts.; porter-house roast, cut short, 
25 cts.; standing rib roast, 15 cts.; rolled rib roast, 15 cts.; plate, navel 
end, 10 cts.; and beef loaf, 15 cts. 



420 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The price per pound of waste fat as here used is 6 cts. This is not 
the market value, but it is believed to be worth this amount to the 
housewife who uses waste fat in different ways in cooking and for 
soap making. To obtain the item called "value of edible meat," 
the value of the waste fat from any pound of meat as purchased from 
the butcher is allowed for in deducing the cost price of every pound 
of edible meat. 

DISCUSSION OF DATA. 

From the above table it will be seen that the grand total per unit 
of weight of all the animals is 50 per cent of edible meat valued at 
39 cts. per pound. 

The highest percentage of edible meat, 72.9, is found in the beef loaf. 
Here the loss in fat is 11.8 per cent and the Ic^s in evaporation in cook- 
ing 13.2 per cent. The cost per pound of edible meat becomes 20.6 
cts. or 5.6 cts. per pound more than the prici paid the butcher. 

The braised round meat gives 61.4 per cent of edible meat, with a 
water loss of 14.4 per cent. There was no loss in fat, as it was all 
incorporated in the sauce made from the broth. The cost of the 
edible meat was 24.4 cts. per pound which is an increase of 9.4 cts. 
per pound over the butcher's price. 

The boiled rib ends averaged 36.5 per cent of edible meat, 38.2 
per cent of waste fat, and 20.5 per cent of bone. This makes the orice 
27.5 cts. for a pound of edible meat that cost only 10 cts. at the shop. 

The five rib roasts averaged 41.6 per cent of edible meat, 24.4 per 
cent of fat, 20.5 per cent of bone, and 10.2 per cent loss in water. 
The butcher's price of 15 cts. per pound is increased to 37.5 cts. for 
a pound of edible meat. 

The porter house roast contained 41.2 per cent of edible meat, 
34 per cent of waste fat, and 15.7 per cent of bon;, and lost 7.8 per 
cent of water in cooking. As compared with the rib roasts, the edible 
meat is approximately the same. The rib roasts lose much in bone 
and the porter house loses excessively in waste fat. 

The cost of the porter house is increased from 25 cts. for the butcher's 
pound to 61. 1 cts. for a pound of edible meai. 

The value of the porter house steaks correspond to that of the 
porter house roasts very closely. They lost more in water evapora- 
tion, which may have been due to the fact that the broiler was so 
arranged that the fat which was tried out did not baste the sides, 
thus leaving two large lean surfaces exposed for evaporation. They 



IQIOj 



Amount of Edible Meat in Various Cuts 



421 



lost less in waste fat, which may have been due to the fact that the 
broiled fat is more palatable, hence more of it eaten than in the roast. 

COMPARATIVE LOSSES IN DIFFERENT TYPES OF ANIMALS. 



With a view to comparing the losses in cooking and relative value 
of the different cuts in diverse types of animals, Tables 2 and 3 are 
presented below: 



TABLE II. 



Percentage of edible meat, waste fat, hone and water, and cost per pound of all cuts in 
animal No. 6j, presented as a type of the poorer grade of beef. 



KIND OF ME.\T. 



butch- 
er's 

WEIGHT. 



WASTE 
FAT. 



WASTE 
BONE. 



WATER 
LOSS. 



EDIBLE 
MEAT. 



COST OF 

EDIBLE 

MEAT PEE 

POUND. 



Beef loaf 

Braised round 

Boiled rib 

Rib roast 

Porter house roast 

Porter house steak 

Average per unit weight 



Cms. 

I185 
1070 
1454 
4385 
1475 
465 



Per Cent, 
0.4 

2.8 
13.0 
14.9 



Per Cent: Per Cent. ^ Per Cent 

16.8 ' 82.7 

16.0 59.3 

22.5 177 57-9 
39-7 7-5 38.1 

16.6 9.5 51.6 
21-5 12.3 53.8 



Cents. 
18.0 
253 
17-3 
39 -o 
48.0 
46. 2 



57-2 



30.6 



TABLE III. 



Percentage of edible meat, waste fat, bone, and water, and cost per pomid of all the 
cuts from the high-grade Hereford steer "7," a type of the best or 
extra choice beef. 



KIND OF MEAT. 


butch- 
er's 

WEIGHT. 


WASTE 
FAT. 


WASTE 
BONE. 


WATER 
LOSS. 


1 COST OF 
EDIBLE. 1 EDIBLE 
MEAT. MEAT 
PER LB. 


Beef loaf 


Gms. 

1000 
2110 

3779 
9161 
4862 
1845 


Per Cent. 
6.5 

53° 
41.2 

50.9 
50.0 


Per Cent. 

6.2 

II. 7 
7-3 


Per Cent. 

13.0 
6.2 

9.9 
6.4 


Per Cent. ^ Cents. 

75.2 ' 10. 


Braised round 


65.8 

29.2 

323 

35-6 
36.6 


22.8 


Boiled rib 


34-2 


Rib roast 


46.0 


Porter house roast 


70.0 


Porter house steak 


4.8 1 7-9 


68.3 






Average per unit weight 






i 


45-8 


43-7 



a Made from rib lean from which all gross fat had been removed. 



422 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Tables 2 and 3 represent the two extreme animals in the series of 
experiments. Table 2 gives the value in percentage of the different 
cuts of the cow No. 63, the edible meat, waste fat, bone, and water, 
and the cost per pound of the edible meat. It is interesting to note 
that the highest percentage of edible meat of all the cuts is found in 
the beef loaf of this animal (82.7 per cent), and it has the low actual 
value of 18 cts. per pound. The braised round furnishes 59.3 per 
cent of edible meat at 25.3 cents per pound. Boiled rib gives 57.9 
per cent of edible meat and costs 17.3 cts. per pound. The rib 
roast gives only 38.1 per cent of edible meat. This small amount 
of edible meat in the rib roast is caused by the large percentage of 
bone waste, i.e., 39.7 per cent. The amount lost by evaporation is 
very small. This is probably due to the fact that the meat was so 
rolled as to make the skin fat complete]> surround the roast. It 
was then so placed in the pan that the fattest part was above and the 
fat in trying out basted the exposed sides and prevented evapora- 
tion. 

The porter house roast lost little by evaporation. As previously 
explained, the kidney fat of this roast was fastened on top of the 
roast. The percentage of edible meat is higher than in the rib roast, 
and the weight of bone much less. This is an interesling point 
because in all the cuts, except those from the loin, the cow No. 63 
has a proportionately larger percentage of bone. This may possibly 
be due to skeletal differences based on breed or sex. The average 
per unit of weight of edible meat in No. 63 is 57.2 per cent, with an 
average value of 30.6 cts. per pound of edible meat. 

Table 3 gives the percentages for the high grade Hereford steer 
"J." The beef loaf gives 75.2 per cent of edible meat, but this can- 
not be fairly compared with other animals since this loaf was made 
from a rib cut from which all visible fat had been removed. It does 
show that there was a higher percentage of fat included in the muscle 
alone of the steer than was present in all the fat of the neck and chuck 
of No. 63. 

The steer gave a higher percentage of edible meat in the braised 
round (65.8 per cent) than did No. 63 (59.3 per cent). This may 
be due either to the presence of more fat in the flesh of this steer 
or to less loss in moisture. 

All the remaining cuts from this steer lost very heavily in waste 
fat, the least loss being in rib roast (41.2 per cent), and the greatest 
being in porter house roast (50.9 per cent). 



igio] Amount of Edible Meat in Various Cuts 423 

The average price per unit of weight of the meat from this steer 
is 43.7 cts. per pound of edible meat, which forms 45.8 per cent of 
each pound. This was 13. i cts. per pound more than the correspond- 
ing value for the cow, and 4.7 cts. more than the average for all the 
animals. 

This series of experiments is closed with the feeling that there is 
yet much more to be done on this problem. Many interestine and 
suggestive side lines of work have been observed during the study. 
It is hoped that they may be investigated in the future, and that the 
present problem may be further extended. 



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS. 

The conclusions here recorded are based on a study of forty-one 
cuts taken from five different animals. 

(i) The highest percentage of edible meat was obtained from the 
beef loaf. Loaf made from neck and chuck was a cent or two cheaper 
than that made from plate and flank. 

(2) The amount of waste fat was small in the beef loaf, because a 
large amount of it was held m the loaf by the added ingredients, mak- 
ing the fat become edible meat. This made the total cost per pound 
of edible meat lov/er than in any other cut, even at the same price for 
the butcher's weight. 

(3) Braised round is an inexpensive meat with practically no loss 
except that of evaporation. It costs only a few cents more per 
pound than beef loaf. 

(4) Boiled rib end is usually an expensive meat because a large 
percentage is lost in wasteful fat. The finished product is not so 
desirable, from the housekeeper's standpoint, as that of other cuts. 
All of its possibilities are found in the round and at less expenditure 
of money and time. 

(5) Rib roast gives a fair share of fine meat at an average price. 
The indications are that the amount of loss in waste fat increases 
as the cut approaches the loin. The chuck rib roast will possibly 
yield the h'ghest percentage of edible meat, but the quality of the 
meat may not be so good. The best rib roasts as to juiciness were 
those mad 2 from the eleventh and twelfth ribs. 

(6) Porter house, either as roast or as steak, is a most expensive 
meat, largely because of its usual excessive loss in waste fat. 



424 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

(7) The loss by evaporation is greatest in lean meats and least 
in excessively fat meats. It is also greater in small cuts than in 
large ones. 

(8) Long cooking increases the loss in evaporation of water and in 
the loss of fat. 

(9) The fatter the animal the lower the percentage of loss in bone. 
An apparent exception to this rule exists in the loin cuts from the 
lean cow, No. 63, when compared with the fat steers. This is prob- 
ably due to skeletal differences based on sex or breed. 

(10) Bone loses weight in cooking. The percentage of bone in 
the standing rib roasts, roasted with the bone left in, is not so high 
as that originally in the rolled rib roasts which were boned before 
roasting. It was not determined whether this is due to water loss 
only, or whether other substances also ar^ lost to the meat from the 
bone in cooking. 

(11) The juiciness of the roast seems to be directly proportioned 
to the amount of fat it contains. 

(12) The fat roasts of this series are of higher flavor than the 
lean roasts. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

Chemistry oj Cooking, W. Mathew Williams; Food and Feeding, Sir Henry Thomp- 
son; The Spirit of Cooking, J. L. W. Thudichum; Food in Health and Disease, Bir- 
ney Zeo; Virginia Housewife, Randolph; Rumford's Kitchen Leaflets; Renovation of 
Food to Health, Townsend; Food and Dietetics, Hutchinson; Gastronomy as a Fine 
Art, Brillat-Savarin; Losses in Cooking Meat, United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Office of Experiment Stations, Bull. 102; Influence of Cooking on the 
Ntilritive Value of Meats, United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Ex 
periment Stations, Bull. 162; Efect of Cooking upon Digestion of Meat, United 
States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, Bull. 193; Meat 
Supply and Surplus, United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Statistics, 
Bull. 55; Roasting of Beef, Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station Circular 71. 



GRADUATE SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS. 

The third Graduate School of Home Economics was held at Ames, 
Iowa, July 6-20, 1910. As was the case with earlier sessions, the date 
was selected so that it would fall mthin the period covered by the Grad- 
uate School of Agriculture in order that advantage might be taken of 
the numerous courses offered which would interest Home Economics 
workers. The usual arrangements were made so that attendants at 
either school could have the benefit of the work of the other. 

The program of the school follows: 

Wednesday, July 6. 

2-3 p. m. — Lecture, Miss CaroHne L. Hunt, Ofiice of Experiment 
Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture, The 
Scientific Basis of Progressive Legislation Affecting 
Welfare of the Home. 

Evening. — Joint meeting with the Graduate School of Agriculture. 

Thursday, July 7. 

11-12 a. m. — Dr. Chas. E. Marshall, Professor of Bacteriology and 
Hygiene, Michigan Agricultural College, A Review 
of Intestinal Bacteriology. 

2-3 p. m. — Dr. R. E. Buchanan, Professor of Bacteriology, Iowa 
State College, Bacteria in Relation to Food Poisoning. 

8 p. m. — Formal Opening, Address of Welcome, Dean C. F. Curtiss, 
Iowa State College, Address by Director A. C. True, 
Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture, Educational Problems in Home Economics, 
Addresses by President H. J. Waters, Kansas State 
Agricultural College, and Mrs. Alice D. Feuling. 

Friday, July 8. 

11-12 a. m. — Dr. W. A. McKeever, Professor of Philosophy, Kansas 
State Agricultural College, Improving the Crop of 
Children. 

2-3 p. m. — Dr. McKeever, Eugenics. 

Evening. — Joint meeting with the Graduate School of Agriculture. 



42s 



426 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Monday, July ii. 

II-I2 a. m. — Prof. M. Mortensen, Iowa State College, Classification 

of Ice Creams. 
2-3 p. m. — Miss Elizabeth C. Sprague, University of Chicago, The 

Causes of Flavor in Meat. (A report of the results of 

original investigation.) 

Tuesday, July 12. 

H-12 a. m. — Miss Hunt, The Scientific Basis of the Campaign against 

Flies. 
2-3 p. m. — Dr. H. T. Vulte, Professor of Household Chemistry, 

Teachers College, Columbia University, Chemistry of 

Textiles. (First lecture.) 

Wednesday, July ij. 

11-12 a. m. — Dr. B. H. Hibbard, Cost of Living on the Farm. 
2-3 p. m. — Dr. Vulte, Chemistry of Textiles. (Second lecture.) 

Thursday, July 14. 

9.30-10.30 a. m. — Prof. Mortensen, Ice Cream Manufacture. 
11-12 a. m. — Dr. B. H. Hibbard, Cost of Living on the Farm. (Sec- 
ond lecture.) 
2-3 p. m. — Dr. Vulte, Chemistry of Textiles. (Third lecture.) 

Friday, July 75. 

9.30-10.30 a. m. — Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Expert in Nutrition, Office 
of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture, Report of Literature on the Physiology and 
Chemistry of Fatigue, with Suggestions as to the 
Possible Use of the Calorimeter in Further Research 
on the Subject. 

2-3 p. m. — Dr. Vulte, Chemistry of Textiles. (Fourth lecture.) 

Monday, July 18. 

8-9 a. m. — Dr. Langworthy, A Review of the Scientific Literature on 
Domestic Art. 

3-4 p. m. — Prof. C. H. Eckles, University of Missouri, Recent Ad- 
vances in Dairy Bacteriology. 

Tuesday, July ig. 

8-9 a. m. — Dr. Langworthy, Question Box. 
3-4 p. m. — Dr. Langworthy, Table Customs. 



igio] Graduate School of Home Economics 427 

Several conferences were also arranged, one led by Miss Sprague 
on Exact Methods in Cooking, another led by Mrs. Feuling on New 
Household Devices, and one which was very largely attended at 
which Dr. F. L. Stevens of the North Carolina College of Agriculture 
spoke on Adapting General Text-Books to the Use of Rural Schools. 

The committee appointed at the business meeting which terminated 
the Graduate School of Home Economics at Ithaca, 1908, and which 
had charge of the arrangements for the Graduate School at Ames, 
comprised Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Miss CaroUne L. Hunt, Mrs. Alice 
P. Norton, Miss Edna D. Day, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, Miss Martha 
Van Rensselaer, and Dr. C. F. Langworthy, with Miss Day as chair- 
man . At the request of the committee Miss Carolin e L . Hunt con sented 
to go to Ames as Dean of the Graduate School of Home Economics. 

The success of the school is in large measure due to Miss Hunt and 
to Miss Day, who had charge of the arrangement of courses and other 
preliminary work. Owing without doubt to unavoidable delays in 
completing arrangements for the Graduate School, the attendance was 
not quite so large as at the Ithaca meeting but much enthusiasm was 
manifested and it is believed that it will exercise a decided influence 
as a factor in advancing Home Economics work. 

It is interesting to note that funds, which included a small balance 
from the preceding session of the Graduate School, a generous contri- 
bution from the Iowa State College, and fees from pupils in attend- 
ance, were amply sufficient for meeting all the expenses of tha school. 

The final business meeting of the school was held on Tuesday, July 19, 
with Miss Hunt in the chair. The principal subject for discussion was 
the future of the Graduate School of Home Economics. In view of the 
fact that the agricultural colleges constitute the largest group of insti- 
tutions of collegiate grade giving courses in Home Economics, it seems 
very fitting that the biennial Graduate School of Agriculture should 
include courses in this subject as well as in the other branches taught 
in the agricultural college. Should such an arrangement prove feas- 
ible, an opportunity would be provided for graduate work in Home 
Economics at regular intervals. It would not then be necessary to 
continue the Graduate School of Home Economics along its present 
lines as an independent enterprise, as all the advantages gained by the 
present cooperation with the Graduate School of Agriculture would of 
course be secured. Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted 
and submitted to the Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experi- 
ment Stations, to be referred to the committee for the Graduate 
School of Agriculture in charge: 



428 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

"Inasmuch as the agricultural colleges constitute the largest group of collegiate 
grade in the United States giving courses in Home Economics, we, the Graduate 
School of Home Economics, request that in planning the work in the future, the 
Graduate School of Agriculture offer a section of Home Economics that the needs 
of the women students be as fully met as those of the men. 

"The Graduate School of Home Economics, after several years of separate 
organization, has become a part of the American Home Economics Association, 
and can assure the Graduate School of Agriculture that the American Association 
of Home Economics will cooperate in every way and will work for the benefit of 
the Home Economics section which we hope may be formed." 

As there was no way of knowing whether or not the Association of 
Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations would find it possible 
to follow out the plan suggested, it was deemed advisable to make 
arrangements for the continuance of the Graduate School of Home 
Economics under other circumstances if necessary, and with this in 
view it was voted that it be formally taken overby the American Home 
Economics Association and become in reahty what it has been in effect, 
a part of that organization. In order that provision might be made for 
all contingencies, the permanent committee for the Graduate School 
of Home Economics was continued, the former members being re- 
elected, mth the addition of Mr. Alice Dynes Feuling as chairman of 
the committee, the full list of names being as follows: Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards, Miss Caroline L. Hunt, Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Miss Edna 
D. Day, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Dr. C. 
F. Langworthy, and Mrs. AHce Dynes Feuling. 

The Chairman spoke of the indebtedness of the present session to 
the many who helped to make the Ames meeting successful, and the 
following resolution thanking the Graduate School of Agriculture, the 
Iowa State College, and others who had contributed to the success of 
the meeting, was adopted: 

"The Graduate School of Home Economics in closing its s ssion at Ames from 
July 6-19 [1910I, wishes to express its profound app-eciation to the Iowa State 
College and its faculty, particularly to the Department of Home Economics, to 
the Iowa Experiment Station, its dean and staff; to the Graduate School of Agri- 
culture, its dean and faculty; to the Priscilla clubs and others who have so measur- 
ably contributed to our comfort socially; and to those managers of the excursion 
to Odebolt and the surrounding region, and to the many who so loyally served us 
throughout the day. 

"We further wish to thank Miss Hunt for her services as dean of the Graduate 
School of Home Economics and to all lecturers and instructors who have contri- 
buted toward the success of the school." 

The meeting then adjourned and this business meeting closed the 
Graduate School of Home Economics. 



SECTIONAL CONFERENCE ON HOUSEHOLD AND 
INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT. 

Following an invitation from the Lake Placid Club, an important 
conference of members of the American Home Economics Association 
engaged in household and institutional administration, or in related 
teaching fields, was held at the Lake Placid Club, Essex County, 
New York, from Tuesday June 28 to Saturday, July 2, 1910 

The formal program for the conference was announced in full in 
the June number of the Journal. 

At a business session held on the closing day, the following were 
chosen as an executive committee: Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid 
Club, Essex Co., N. Y., chairman; Miss Adelaide Nutting, Teachers 
College, Columbia Univ., New York City; Prof. Wm. Morse Cole, 
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. ; Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, 
Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.; and Melvil Dewey, Pres. Lake 
Placid Club, Essex Co., N. Y. 

Committees were also appointed, as follows: 

On Existing Demands in Institution Work, Miss Martha Van 
Rensselaer, chairman; Administration, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, chair- 
man; Curriculum for Training for Institution Management, Miss 
Lydia Southard, Teachers College chairman, and Miss Florence 
Corbett, Teachers College; and Resolutions, Dr. Benjamin R.Andrews, 
Teachers College, Miss Maude Gilchrist, Mich. Agricultural College, 
and Mrs. Olaf N. Guldin, chairman Home Economics Department, 
General Federation of Women's Clubs, Fort Wayne, Ind. 

Among the resolutions reported by the Resolutions Committee 
and adopted were the following: 

(i) It is significant that this first conference should meet at the same place and 
under the same auspices as the first conference on Home Economics a decade ago. 
We congratulate Mr. and Mrs. Dewey on their services to the cause, and we hereby 
express our appreciation of their great contribution to the work. 

(2) (a) That the conference emphasize the ideals of rational Uving in home, 
institution and community life; (b) that we utilize all proper methods to advance 
these ideals in education in both elementary and higher schools; (c) that we 
urge the necessity of a professional training for those concerned in household and 
institution management; (d) that we work for increased government support 

429 



430 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

of scientific investigation in this field, and a similar provision in universities and 
technical schools; (e) that we arrange for the preparation and dissemination of 
needed hterature on institution management; (/) that we organize and assist 
meetings and conferences where these subjects are considered, so that the public 
may realize their importance as a basis of conservation of human life, as well as of 
material resources. 

(3) That the conference records its conviction of the great importance of sec- 
tional conferences like this dealing with definite divisions of Home Economics as 
well as the general meetings whose programs include the whole field of Home 
Economics, and that we request the committee on institution management to 
arrange for a conference in 191 1. 

(4) That we express our appreciation of the great value of the Journal of 
Home Economics, and urge our members to extend its circulation among insti- 
tutions, libraries, clubs and individuals who will find it valuable as the authorita- 
tive pubUcation in the field of home and institution management. 

That the executive conamittee of the American Home Economics Association 
be requested to consider the possibility of adding .^ome supplementary phrase on 
the title page of the Journal which shall express its relation to the institu- 
tional field — for example, "Journal of Home Economics — Home, Institution, 
Community." 

(5) That the conference approves the proposed federal legislation providing 
national support for education in Home Economics; specially that we urge favor- 
able action by congress on the Davis-DoUiver Bill which will extend support 
to secondary and normal education in Home Economics. 

(6) That the executive board of the section be authorized in the interval between 
its meetings to act on any matter which four-fifths of the board agree shall not be 
postponed till the next meeting, and where the action proposed correctly repre- 
sents the majority sentiment of the section. 

(7) Resolved that the members of this conference express their sense of loss in 
the death of Mrs. Adelaide Hoodless who so long and ably promoted the cause of 
Home Economics education in Canada. 



HOME ECONOMICS AT THE GENERAL FEDERATION 
OF WOMEN'S CLUBS. 

At the tenth biennial convention of the General Federation of 
Women's Clubs, held in Cincinnati, May 11-18, the chairman of 
of the standing committee of Home Economics, Mrs. Olaf Guldin, 
of Fort Wayne, Indiana, reported that 720 clubs had held one or 
more special sessions on Home Economics during the two years, that 
371 had regularly established departments of Home Economics, 278 
had had lectures, demonstrations or short courses, and 258 helped in 
creating sentiment toward Home Economics in the public schools, 
while 104 had done educational or philanthropic work in cities. 

The committee made the following requests of clubs: 

(i) To have each club devote one or more sessions to Home Economics; (2) 
to have Home Economics books put into the public schools ; (3) to have Home 
Economics taught in the public schools; (4) to have one session of each conven- 
tion devoted to the subject; (5) to cooperate with state universities and agri- 
cultural colleges to secure Home Economics teachers for carrying on short course 
work and lectures; and (6) to keep this committee informed by reports, programs 
and outlines on whatever is accomplished. 

Miss Crooks, of Milwaukee-Downer College, gave a lecture upon 
textiles, illustrating by samples the work of laboratory investigation 
of adulterated fabrics. Miss Crooks made a plea for the same atten- 
tion to the regulation of the sale of textiles which has been secured 
for food adulteration. Miss Mary F. Rausch, of the Colorado Agri- 
cultural College, presented a paper on Domestic Science, and also 
explained the scope of the extension work in Colorado, Miss 
Martha Van Rensselaer, of Cornell University, gave a steropticon 
lecture on the field of Home Economics, using a series of slides to 
show the work presented in the institutions of the country. 

Throughout the entire meeting of the Federation lectures and dis- 
cussions relating to Home Economics were presented by different 
committees. The food sanitation committee introduced Dr. Harvey 
W. Wiley, of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and health com- 
missioners from several central states. The art committee had a 
lecture on practical application of art principles to domestic and 
municipal life. Dr. Alvin Davison, of Lafayette College, spoke on 
the Drinking Cup as a Source of Disease. Social Hygiene and the 
Economic Conditions Governing the Condition of Women and Chil 
dren formed a part of another session. 

431 



EDITORIALS. 

We wish to call attention to the special feature of this number, 
the papers on the teaching of Domestic Art which were presented 
for the most part at the Boston Meeting of the Education Section. 
Other papers will appear in the next number. This is the fulfill- 
ment of our promise made in the spring to those teachers and 
students interested in this branch of Home Economics, and we are 
certain that in the number and excellence of these papers and dis- 
cussion they will find their reward for the delay. It is hoped that 
these papers will stimulate discussion on this important subject and 
we shall be glad to receive additional papers and criticisms. 

The American Home Economics Association may congratulate 
itself that in this, the second year of its existence, it has held nearly 
all of those who joined its ranks in 1909 and has 
The Future added to its membership over three hundred new 
of the names. This has been done without advertising or 

Association. other effort except what has been put forth by 
interested members. 

The Association and its organ, the Journal of Home Economics, 
has thus far existed almost solely for the development and instruc- 
tion of its members, a large part of them teachers of Home Economics 
in our schools. Through their conventions and summer schools 
and lecture courses the Association has become known to teachers 
of these branches, but outside this natural means of communication 
it has not been easy to spread the news that a national association 
has been formed "to improve the conditions of living in the home, 
the institutional household and the community." Homemakers, 
workers in institutions, friendly visitors among the poor, when shown 
a copy of the Journal are often heard to express surprise and pleasure 
to learn that such help is at hand. The Association is meeting a 
great modem need, its Journal voices an irresistible movement which 
calls for "teaching the practical efficiencies of living to both sexes." 

That the Association should rightly lead tliis movement is of 
immense importance and how it is to do so has been made the subject 



432 



iQio] Editorials ■ 433 

of careful thought by our governing council. In the first place its 
membership must be greatly extended. Our main reliance in bring- 
ing this about must continue to be those who are already interested 
in its aims, but in order to reach the larger reading pubhc a campaign 
of pubUcity must be undertaken which will require larger funds than 
our membership dues furnish. The Council has decided to admit 
into the pages of the Journal a moderate amount of carefully selected 
advertising and it is hoped that the income derived from this source 
will also make it possible to issue the Journal more frequently, prob- 
ably as a monthly with the exception of the vacation months and give 
to its readers some eight hundred instead of, as now, five hundred 
pages of reading matter yearly. The dues will continue to be $2.00 
a year and will be received for the calendar year only. 

We wish to thank most heartily those of our members who have 
responded to our call in the June number for Nos. i and 2 of Volume 
I. Cash or credit has been given in all cases, ex- 
Back cept a few in which the Journal was unaccompa- 
Numbers. nied by name. We need still more copies of these 
numbers especially to fill the orders from libraries 
for complete sets. 

Readers of the Journal will please note that accompanying this 

_. . _j number we send title page and index for Volume 

, _. , I, I goo. The Index for Volume II will be printed 

and Index. . ^ ^ t^ ^ , 

with the December number. 

During the summer three notable meetings were held at which 
papers were presented of great interest to our members. The first 

of these meetings was held at Lake Placid, N. Y., 
The Summer June 28 to July 2, on Institutional Management, 
Meetings. and it called together some fifty people, many of them 

heads of institutions, dietitians, or others who had 
expert knowledge of the subjects discussed. So important and num- 
erous were the papers presented that it has been decided to issue 
them in a special "Institutions Number" which will appear in Nov- 
ember and be sent free to all members of the Association. Lists of 
the officers chosen and the resolutions adopted will be found else- 
where in this munber of the Journal. 



434 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The second meeting was that of the Education Section held in con- 
junction with the National Education Association Convention in 
Boston, July 2-8. This was attended by some three hundred people 
and a large number of the interesting papers presented on the subject 
of domestic art will be found in this number of the Journal. Others 
will appear later. 

Elsewhere in the current number will be found a report of the ses- 
sion of the Graduate School of Home Economics which met at Ames, 
Iowa, July 6-20. 

It now seems probable that the annual meeting of the American 

_, . . Home Economics Association will be held during the 

.|^ . Christmas vacation at St. Louis, Mo., in conjunction 

with the American Economic Association. The full 

program will appear in the December number of the Journal. 

December All those who join the Association before January 

Number next will receive free the December number containing 

Free. the full program of the annual or midwinter meeting 



NEWS FROM INSTITUTIONS. 

Some idea of the meaning of the title of the new normal training school, estab- 
lished by the California legislature in the spring of 1909, can be gleaned from the 
perusal of the first section of the bill which provides that: "There 
Santa Barbara is hereby established in the city of Santa Barbara, county of 
State Normal Santa Barbara, a state school to be known as the Santa Barbara 
School of State Normal School of Manual Arts and Home Economics. 

Manual Arts The purpose of this school is to furnish to the people of both sexes 
and Home such professional training in manual arts and Home Economics 

Economics. as shall fit them to teach in the public schools of this state in the 

departments of manual arts and Home Economics. This act 
shall be liberally construed to the end that the school established hereby may at all 
times contribute to the high standard of professional training in the state." 

This school, the first of its kind in the United States, was formally organized on 
July 10, 1909, by Governor J. N. Gillett, State Superintendent of Schools Edward 
Hyatt, and the board of trustees, five in number, from the state at large. Santa 
Barbara was granted this school " that the state might show appreciation of the late 
Miss Anna S. C. Blake, who estabhshed in this city in 1891 the first domestic science 
and mauual training classes on the Pacific Coast. 

A beautiful site had been given by pubhc-spirited citizens, and August 30 named 
as the date for opening the school in the Anna S. C. Blake Memorial Building, 
generously appropriated to the state's use by the Santa Barbara board of educa- 
tion. It was decided to estabhsh the two departments which should meet the 
most insistent demand for teachers — manual arts, and domestic arts and domestic 
science, for primary and grammar grades. The city further permits the use of its 
splendid eqiaipment and admits of all the practice teaching in its long established, 
well conducted classes in the above mentioned subjects. Only the simplest advance 
notices were possible and yet an astonishing number of inquiries were received, 
showing that the general public, as well as the progressive teacher is awake to the 
demand for the trained instructor in manual training and domestic science. 

There being only the one special school in the state it will eventually present all 
the kindred subjects grouped under its comprehensive title and its students will, 
in a sense, be post-graduates, since entrance credits are based on the following 
general requirements: Graduation from a college, university, normal or special 
school; certificate of attendance for two or more years in such schools, with recom- 
mendations from the same; or successful teaching experience, with satisfactory 
testimonials. Elementary chemistry and the sciences included in the high school 
course of study are prerequisites for the Home Economics course. 

The directors of long established institutions gladly welcome a new training 
school that is not lowering the standards they have worked so long and earnently 
to establish. The course of study here is full and the plan of work is thorough, 
practical and calculated to meet individual needs. 



435 



436 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

A year hence will see the beginning of the erection of the permanent school 
building and the structure will be an exempHfication of what the school is to stand 
for — proportion, simplicity, fitness. Standing on the ridge of the hills surround- 
ing the city, silhouetted against the highest peaks of the Santa Ynez Range, over- 
looking the city and the broad blue Pacific Ocean beyond, the building will have a 
location even more commanding than the old Franciscan Mission famous in Santa 
Barbara's early history. 

Two stories in front for ofBces, assembly', and library; one story on the other 
three sides; built around a court with all the rooms opening into the sunshine and 
all so placed as to have the right exposure for light, attendance therein will be a 
pleasure. The equipment will grow gradually of course, meeting the needs of the 
state as its work increases. The school year, divided into quarters, will bring peo- 
ple from all sections and the mingling of interests will be of incalculable value. 

Student graduates of normal schools, colleges and universities will come into 
the Home Economics department here for their year or more of training in methods 
for grades and for high school. The Santa Barbara student will often spend sum- 
mer vacations at the universities, getting more and more insight into the sciences 
and a larger conception of the economics of living. 

Here may come the men and women who wi'l teach manual arts in the grades — 
it may be clay modeling, pottery, bench work, metal work, wood carving, with the 
accompanying knowledge of design or sewing, dressmaking, millinery, textiles, 
etc. — all will find the instruction needed. Supervisors of primary handwork and 
teachers of design studying here may know the relative value of their work, in 
comparison with the high school shop-work and the trade-school practice. 

The duration of courses will naturally vary, but the school will exact of its appli- 
cants standards, fitness, good health and ability to carry the chosen line of work. 
The state needs good teachers and rather than place in each of its five established 
normal schools a department of special training it is wisely concentrating its forces, 
equipment and faculty, under one administrative head.. 

The personnel of the classes this first year is delightful. There are no "specials." 
All met the entrance requirements and all are meeting the standards. They come 
from Hawaii, Washington, Illinois, Montana, Arkansas, Colorado, Oklahoma, 
Iowa, Michigan, New York, and from more than a dozen cities in California. 
Most of them want to remain in California and there is a promising outlook for 
them all. — Ednah A. Rich, President. 

Bradley Institute offers two courses in domestic economy. One is a part of 
the regular high school course, every girl being required to take 
both sewing and cooking. The other is a two-year course for 
... . those wishing to specialize in the branches relating to home- 

. ' making, either for their own use or for the purpose of teaching 

' domestic economy, and for entrance to which a four year high 

school course or its equivalent is required. 
In this course opportunity for strong science work is provided, and electives 
in other departments of the college are open to those desiring such work. A close 
connection with the manual arts department is maintained in various ways, nota- 
bly in the design applied in art needlework and other modes of interior decora- 
tion, and in a course known as house construction, sanitation and decoration, in 



iQio] News from Institutions 



437 



which this year the construction was given by the head of the manual arts depart- 
ment, the sanitation by the head of the domestic science department and the decora- 
tion by one of the art teachers. Sufficient training is given in mechanical drawing 
and in perspective to enable the students to make very creditable drawings of 
floor-plans and elevations, and an interior view of one of the rooms is done in color 
by each student to indicate furnishing and decoration. The houses thus planned 
are made the basis for the study of cost of living in the course in household adminis- 
tration which follows. 

The students are much interested this spring in a practical problem in house 
furnishing, made possible by the decision of the trustees of the institute to give the 
department the use of a cottage situated just to the rear. In this will be carried 
on next year the practice work in the various household processes such as cleaning, 
laundering and the serving of meals, and housekeeping will be studied under the 
conditions of the ordinary home. This will supplement the work done in the 
laboratory and class rooms of the institute and will give additional opportunity 
for practice and experimental work. 

The furnishing of a laundry, kitchen, dining room, bed room, and living room 
in an attractive and suitable way for a moderate expenditure is the problem upon 
which the students are enthusiastically at work 

In the domestic art department, courses in millinery and embroidery have been 
added this year. In connection with the former a very good exhibit of spring 
hats was held. It is expected that many evidences of results in art needlework 
will be visible in the new cottage. 

The teaching staff of the department is as follows: Helen Marion Day, B.S., 
Assistant Professor in Domestic Science; Elida Esther Winchip, Instructor in 
Domestic Economy; Martha Shopbell, B.S., Instructor in Domestic Economy; 
Bertha May ScuUin, A.B., Instructor in Domestic Economy; and Alice Evans 
Blair, Assistant in Sewing. 

Miss Mary F. Rausch, head of the Department of Home Economics, recently 
writes as follows: 

"U. S. Senator Guggenheim has given $45,000 for a new Home 

Colorado Economics building. The corner stone was recently laid, and we 

Agricultural hope to get into the building by October. The program included 

College. a talk by Governor Shafroth and an address by Mrs. Sarah 

Piatt Decker. 

"Miss Inga Allison, who was formerly at Lake Erie College, and who has been 
with me for the past two years, has resigned. She has taken up a claim and will 
spend the next year in developing the house and land. Miss Maud Propst, of 
Rockford College, has been appointed as instructor in this department for next 
year. 

"This has been a very satisfactory year. We doubled our attendance. We hope 
next year to have a large enrollment of girls. The school of agriculture, which was 
put in here for the first time this winter was a decided success, having had 200 
students enrolled. 

"We have started a new move here for this simimer. The college is sending 
out members of the faculty to the various teachers' institutes to show the teachers 
how to teach agriculture, nature study and domestic science in the rural schools 



438 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

and lower grades with very little money or equipment. We think it is a step in 
the right direction. As soon as people know more about domestic science, they 
will know that it must be put into every school in the country." 

The opening of a new department of domestic science is something like the 
"hanging of the crane," since it aims to be a center of harmony, order and thrift. 
Such a department was opened in Eureka College, Eureka, Illinois, 
last year, in charge of Mrs. Evaline C. Compton. Great interest 
®» • was shown by the students, and considerable correlation with 

the work of other departments was accomplished. Further extension of the domes- 
tic science work is contemplated during 1910-11. 

The department of domestic economy will begin the year of 1910-11 on a revised 
and considerably enlarged plan of work. The course is placed on a more logical 

basis, and several subjects, new both to domestic art and domestic 
University of science have been added, thus offering a very complete list to 
Idaho. the young women of this yet new state, a good number of whom 

are already enrolled. Registration at the present time numbers 
75 against 50 of last year. A growing interest is manifested in the department 
work both among the students and the people outside. 

The course covers 136 credits and requires four years. For the first two 
years in addition to 56 credits for science, language, history and other cultural 
subjects, 4 credits are allowed for drawing, both form study and color and design, 
2 credits for hand sewing, and 2 credits for machine sewing in the first year, and 
4 credits for cookery, 4 credits for food lectures, and 2 credits for advanced sewing 
the second year. The last two years offer the following: 

JUNIOR YEAR. 

First semester: Credits Second semester: Credits 

Psychology 3 School administration 2 

Bacteriology 5 Zoology or botany 4 

Physiology 2 Bacteriology 3 

Junior cookery 2 Hygiene 2 

Dressmaking 2 Junior cookery 2 

Household art i Tailor work 2 

Textiles i House sanitation i 

Household law i Fine hand sewing 2 

Laundering i 

SENIOR YEAR. 

First semester: Credits Second semester: Credits 

Vertebrate histology 2 Vertebrate histology 2 

History of education 3 Education (elective) 2 

Art needlework 2 Art needlework 2 

Invalid cookery i Millinery 2 

Emergencies and home nursing . . i Senior cookery 2 

Practice teaching in sewing 2 Electives 3 

Practice teaching in cookery .... 2 



iQio] News from Institutions 439 

Thus far only two students have been graduated from the course, with the 
degree B.S. The incoming classes promise, however, a fine increase of graduates 
in the immediate future. 

Like all new universities, the work is being carried on under the hampering con- 
ditions of a state still in the making, but with the seemingly unlimited resources 
of the western country success is assured in a shorter time than would be possible 
in an up-to-date eastern university. The prospects ahead, therefore, seem 
encouraging in the extreme. — Jennie L. K. Haner. 

The department of Home Economics has entered into a relation of exchange with 
the Brokaw Hospital, Bloomington, Illinois, by virtue of which the nurses in the 

hospital training school receive instruction in cookery for the 
Illinois sick from the department of Home Economics, while the students 

Wesleyan of this department receive instruction from the nurses in bandag- 

University. ing, bedmaking, the care of the sick room, and what to do until 

the doctor comes. Miss Ina K. Pitner (Teachers College, 1908), 
who is in charge of the work, says that quite in opposition to orthodox commercial 
principles, there is an ardent rivalry between the college and the hospital as to 
which shall give the more to the other. 

A two-year course leading to a certificate, and a four-year college course leading 
to the degree of Bachelor of Science in household economy, is offered in this depart- 
ment of the university. 

From the Illinois Woman's College, Jacksonville, Illinois, comes the following 
report from Miss Grace M. Viall (University of Chicago, 1906): 

"This fall we realized that we did not have as pretty a set of 
Illinois dishes as we desired for our senior dinners, so the junior class in 

Woman's cookery came to the rescue and gave two sales. With the pro- 

College, ceeds we purchased and presented to the senior class, a beautiful 

set of Haviland china. 

"Perhaps you will be interested in our sales. The first one was a pancake and 
waffle sale.. Each student had either a pancake griddle or a waffle-iron, and a 
bowl of batter. The orders came so rapidly that every student was kept at her 
post for two hours. We served one waffle for ten cents and three cakes for the 
same price. For five cents extra we gave a cup of coffee. Our second sale was a 
doughnut and coffee sale. The girls made five hundred doughnuts which disap- 
peared within one hour after being placed on sale. Our sales are well patronized 
and are very popular with every one. 

"I have found that the sales are valuable from three stand-points: first, they 
give the students practice in handling materials in large quantities; second, they 
afford opportunity for students to exercise executive ability; third, they create 
enthusiasm in the work, as the girls are anxious to produce results which are a credit 
to the department. We are planning more sales for the future. Among them are 
to be salad and strawberry short-cake sales. We will combine our lessons in frozen 
desserts with sales. We are going to collect freezers from our friends in town and 
each girl will have the practice of making and freezing large amounts of creams, 
ices and sherbets. After the lesson the creams will be sold." 



440 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Miss Bertha Miller, a 1908 graduate of Teachers College, has inaugurated a 
series of "faculty luncheons," served at a cost of from eight to ten cents per person 

by the students of the department of domestic economy to the 
James members of the faculty. "Luncheon day" comes once a week, 

Millikin and the number of guests is Hmited to thirty. At first, Miss 

University, Miller says, it was difficult to secure so many, but now they 
Decatur, have a waiting list, and the meals are highly praised and enjoyed. 

Illinois. Miss Miller has also organized a Home Economics club, open 

to students of domestic art and domestic science. Through 
this club several lecturers have been brought to the college to speak on various 
problems of home administration. 

The Iowa Homestead for July 7 gives an interesting illustrated account of the 
movable schools of Home Economics sent out by the extension department, under 
the direction of Miss Frances Brown and Miss Ula Dow. Each 
Kansas State school continued for one week in a locality, the equipment and 
Agricultural supplies being furnished by the local community, usually through 
College. the farmers' institute organization. An advance enrollment 

of not less than fourteen or more than twenty-four, all at least 
fifteen years of age, is required, and generally a membership fee of one dollar 
is charged. 

Cooking lessons are given each morning and sewing lessons each afternoon. 
There are also conferences at 4 p. m. daily, open to the housewives of the com- 
munity. These are very largely attended, sometimes as many as 200 being present. 

The results of the school work are regarded as very encouraging. Over 400 
people were enrolled at the fourteen schools held during the spring. Most of them 
were women, though there were many young girls, and the ages ranged from 
fifteen to sixty-five. 

In a recent letter, Miss Rachel H. Col well writes as follows: 
"My problem here is concerned with offering courses in household science in 
the department, which ranks with the other science departments 

Lake Erie in the college. There is no attempt made to offer professional 

College. courses, or especially to train teachers, any more than is done in 

physics or chemistry. The aim is eventually to have the courses 

open to Juniors and Seniors who will elect the work as the rounding out of the 

pure science courses. 

"It is felt that this is the only way that the courses can receive academic credit 

in a girls' college, leaving a different treatment of the subject for the university 

and the agricultural college." 

Miss Mabel Wellman writes as follows: 

"One course in which I am particularly interested is the one on economics of 

the house. The object is to set the students thinking along a 

good many lines. We begin with a study of the evolution of the 

' house and family life. Starting with the most primitive types, 

J ' the tree dwellers, we picture their probable every day life, in 

caves and huts. Primitive implements and industries are dwelt 



19 1 o] News from Institutions 441 

upon, and a visit to the Field Columbian Museum with its many models of savages 
of different kinds employed in all sorts of occupations gives reality to the picture. 
Lake dwellings, cliff buildings, and pueblos are studied, and specimens of early 
implements and utensils examined. Next we study the probable influence which 
the following of ancestor worship had on the organization of the family and how 
it helped fix the position of women in the Ar>'an race. Then we study family life 
of the classic period in Athens, Sparta, and Rome, in a good deal of detail, con- 
trasting with it early Semitic life as shown in the Old Testament. We trace the 
effect which early Christianity had upon the position of women, then the influence 
of feudalism, and the rise of chivalry. We stop for a study of home life in England 
in the Middle Ages, comparing it with civilization as we had found it in Rome. 
Then we study the different great periods of industry as they arose in England. 
For modern problems we read such works as Veblin's Theory of the Leisure Class, 
Stetson-Gilman's Women and Economics, and The Home, Richardson's The 
Woman who Spends, and enough political economy to take up questions in regard 
to private property ownership, and competition versus socialism. Along with this 
has come debates on woman suffrage, on the relation of woman to industry, and 
on the organization of modern homes including the servant problem. The last part 
of the course is devoted to the study of the cost of living, as portrayed in family 
budgets, and the division of the family income." 

At the Summer School of Agriculture and Country Life, held July 1 1 to August 
12, an innovation was the introduction of Home Economics courses. Three 
courses were offered, a four-week course in domestic science for 
Massachu- rural school teachers, a four-week course of a more general nature 
setts in domestic science and Home Economics, and a two-week course 

Agrictiltural in household science, given especially for the wives of clergymen 
College. attending the summer school. In each case three lectures and 

two demonstrations were given weekly. The work was in charge 
of Miss Harriet B. Rinaker of the University of Illinois, assisted by Miss Howe. 
All of the courses were largely attended, and much interest was evident in the 
offering of this work by the institution. 

At the second summer session, held from July 5 to August 12, courses 

in practical cooking and home management were offered 

Mlddlebury under the direction of Miss Caroline E. Alden. Other courses 

College. of special interest to Home Economics students were those 

in metal craft and elements of pottery and modelling and 

in rural sociology. 

Miss Edna D. Day, for several years in charge of the Department of Home 
Economics, has accepted the professorship of Home Economics at the University 

of Kansas. Miss Louise Stanley, who was for two years an 
University of instructor in the Department of Home Economics, and who has 
Missouri. been away on leave of absence the past year completing her work 

for the degree of Ph.D. at Yale University, is to be in charge of 
the department next year. 



442 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The four-year course in Home Economics leading to the degree of B.S. organ- 
ized last fall has been heartily received by the young women of the college. There 
has previously been a two-year course of high school grade, initi- 
North Dakota ated when the college was founded twenty years ago. At present 
Agricultural three courses are available, the college course, the high school 
College. course, and the homemakers' course. Last term 239 girls were 

enrolled in these three courses. 

The college course is preceded and accompanied by a very thorough course in 
chemistry, physics, bacteriology and other allied sciences. While it was originally 
the intention to train for homemaking only, there have been so many requests for 
teachers for first class high schools that it has been necessary to include training 
for Home Economics teachers. These girls may elect subjects in the department 
of education. 

The high school course is a preparatory course and on its completion the girls 
may enter the freshman year of the college. 

The homemakers course is intended to meet the needs of our agricultural popu- 
lation. Labor is scarce and work so congested during the spring and fall months 
that it is impossible for many of the children of the best citizens of the state to enter 
at the beginning of the regular school year. Therefore, in order to make possible 
the attendance of these girls, whose parents are willing and anxious to give them 
educational advantages, a course has been established beginning the latter part of 
October and continuing five months for three years. The work is practical and 
includes sufficient chemistry, biology and other allied subjects to make the work in 
Home Economics effective. The department employs five regular teachers, one of 
whom is a graduate nurse who gives instruction in home nursing and hygiene for 
women. 

Ceres Hall, the new women's building is to be occupied this fall. It has a front- 
age of 165 feet and is four stories high. This building is strictly modern, and con- 
tains three large kitchen laboratories, three sewing rooms, a laundry class room, a 
lecture room equipped with stereopticon, demonstrating table, etc. There is also 
a model kitchen, pantry and dining room where practical instruction will be given 
in planning, marketing, and preparing and serving family meals. One room is to be 
fitted up for instruction in home nursing. Because of the rigid winters the board 
of regents has made Ceres Hall sufficiently large for both the dormitory and Home 
Economics department. In connection with the dormitory is a dining room with 
seating capacity for four hundred. This gives an exceptional opportunity for the 
study of institutional housekeeping. 

The Home Economics department has begun cooperating with the college exten- 
sion work this year. The head of the department has lectured at a number of the 
high schools of the state. A car was also fitted up in the agricultural exhibit train 
which was sent out in June by the Northern Pacific Railroad under the auspices 
of the farmers' institute. This was the first attempt at introducing the movable 
school. It included a large exhibit of cooking and sewing and devices for making 
housekeeping and homemaking on the farm less irksome. Lectures were given in three 
towns each day, and the venture proved very successful. — Jessie M. Hoover. 



igio] News from Institutions 443 

This institution has recently been established at Cheltenham, Pa., with Miss 
Jane B. Haines as principal. 

The school grounds already contain an apple orchard and a 
Pennsylvania vineyard, and it is planned to have the students assist in laying 
School of out other gardens and orchards. It is also planned to erect green- 

Horticulture houses at an early date. For the present, accommodations are 
for Women. available for not more than ten students. 

A two-year course, continuing with brief intermissions through- 
out the entire calendar year has been arranged. The chief studies are horticulture, 
botany, chemistry, marketing of produce, agricultural bookkeeping and corre- 
spondence, garden carpentry and greenhouse construction, preserving of fruits and 
vegetables, bee keeping, poultry raising and elements of surv^eying and garden de- 
sign. A high school education is a pre-requisite for admission and certificates are 
given upon the satisfactory completion of the course. 

A course in Home Economics was included in the curriculum of the recent sum- 
mer school, three hours a day being given to lectures on foods, sanitation and house- 
hold management. 
Rhode Island The present school year opens with a large enrollment. Do- 
College, mestic art has been added to the course, one year being required 
and the second which includes textiles and tailoring being elective. 
Much new apparatus has been installed, and the facilities for work have been in- 
creased by the equipment of a suite of rooms including office, sewing room and 
lecture room. 

Cookery demonstrations and social service are combined for the Rockford Col- 
lege students, Rockford, Illinois, in a scheme planned for them by the department 
of Home Economics in conjunction with the city Y. W. C. A. At 
Rockford the noon hour in the factories the students take turns in giving 

College. chafing dish demonstrations of cookery to the factory girls in dif- 

ferent shops. The management very kindly cooperates in provi- 
ding a room, a demonstration table, and other facilities, and the girls are all given 
a copy of the recipe and a taste of the dish. In the department of economics in 
the college at the same time the Home Economics students are studying labor 
conditions, factor}' systems, etc., and are doing field work in the very factories 
where they demonstrate. 

One of the leading schools of Home Economics in Utah is located at the agri- 
cultural college. In order to meet the needs of the state it has been necessary for 
the present to combine high school and college work at this insti- 
Agricultural tution. High schools are being erected rapidly in Utah towns, 
College of however, and work in domestic science is generally being included 
Utah. in the curriculum. 

In 1909 the legislature appropriated a large sum of money for the remodeling of 
the college dormitory and this entire building was given over to education for the 
young women. In the renovation neither effort nor money was spared and the old 
"beanery" as it was then called by the college youths was transformed, under the 



444 "^he Journal of Home Economics [October 

able direction of Miss Ellen A. Huntington, into the finest building with modern 
equipment for the purpose in the west. 

The building itself is a large white brick four-story and basement structure, and 
it stands on the brow of the hill overlooking the picturesque little town of Logan. 
The walls are finished with sand plaster and tinted in soft colors, mostly tans and 
browns. Oregon fir, stained a dark brown, has been used throughout in the wood 
work. 

The work of the Home Economics department is subdivided into the domestic 
science and domestic arts departments, and a further division is made for the high 
school and college students. 

In two large kitchens the girls are given practice in cooking with gas, electricity 
and coal. These laboratories also offer a basis for discussion of the cost of equip- 
ment as one is more expensively equipped than the other, having electrical appara- 
tus and carrara glass table tops and blue enameled ware, while the other has gas, 
wood table tops and grey enameled ware. The same work is given in each. Fre- 
quently the governor and trustees visit this institution; and on such occasions the 
Home Economics department serves lunch. 

Opening off this kitchen is a large dining room finished in hardwood with oak fur- 
nishings especially designed and constructed by the mechanic arts department of 
the college. These are hand carved, the sego lily (the state flower) being used in 
the design. Two chemical laboratories afford opportunity for work in the chemistry 
of foods, textiles, and research. One laboratory is devoted to experimental work 
entirely; this is equipped with electricity and gas in such a way that new devices 
may be tested from a practical and economical standpoint. 

The domestic arts department is provided with plenty of light airy rooms for its 
work. A large sewing room and a dressmaking room are furnished with tables and 
chairs and with machines of various makes. There is also a millinery room where 
the high school girls get training in this phase of the work. Besides these rooms 
there are offices on each floor, a library furnished with carved furniture designed 
and constructed by the mechanic arts department, a rest room, class rooms, room 
for museum material, laundry and locker rooms. 

The health of the girls has been an important consideration. An electric elevator 
has been put at their disposal, and baths and showers afford great pleasure to the 
girls after special gymnasium work. 

With a building so thoroughly equipped and a location so ideal, the courses have 
been arranged, not only to meet the needs of the students but also to maintain the 
highest college standard. The four years' college course leads to a degree of B.S. 
The high school courses offer work in sanitation, cooking, sewing, home nursing 
and millinery. The college work takes up food from the manufacturing, chemical, 
and economic standpoint. A course in nutrition and dietetics is also given. The 
fine arts department and the domestic arts department work together in giving a 
course in household art. Courses in dressmaking, and textiles where girls test the 
manufactured materials for adulteration and study the economic problems in- 
volved in the purchase of textiles, are offered in the junior and senior years. A course 
in household administration which deals briefly with the relations of the home to 
society, the cost of living, civic improvement, domestic service, household manage- 
ment, and modern tendencies in living, makes a fitting conclusion to the four years' 
college work. A teachers* course designed for students who expect to teach is also 
given. 



iQio] News from Institutions . 445 

The enthusiasm of the girls is made manifest by the work done by the Home 
Economics Club of the College, organized by the girls. At Christmas time a sale 
of Christmas cards attracted a great deal of attention as did an art exhibit of Jap- 
anese prints later on in the year. 

In January a housekeepers' conference brought many women from different 
parts of the state. Laboratory work was offered in sewing and cooking and lec- 
tures were also given by many prominent men and women of the state. In connec- 
tion with this work a "fly exhibit" was the occasion for much comment. 

The agricultural college has done much toward the growth of the resources of the 
state through the college extension work. Almost all the small towns of the state 
have been reached by the extension method. Home Economics clubs have been 
organized in nine different localities. They are all doing splendid work and are very 
much interested. Regular outlines for the work are printed and sent out by the 
department. Recipes for the food demonstrations are given away. A great deal of 
interest has been taken by the ladies in a bread contest that was held in each place 
the extension workers visited. In seven cases out of nine the bread judged for the 
best was made in a bread mixer. 

For Utah Home Economics means much for the individual and for society, both 
at present and in the future. 

We graduated ten girls this year, all of whom have positions in Utah, Arizona 
and Idaho. Miss Mary Parmelee, who has been substituting head of the depart- 
ment of domestic arts for this year, is to be in Los Angeles next year. One of the 
domestic science staff, Miss Lizzie O. McKay, is to become head of the department 
at the Weber Stake Academy at Ogden, Utah. The rest of the staff at the college 
remains practically the same. — E. Hazel Love, Instructor in Domestic Science. 

Welleslev According to a recent number of the Boston Transcript, a new 
Colleffe course is to be offered entitled Bacteria, Yeasts and Molds in the 

Home. 



The following excerpts regarding the domestic science work of this institution 
are taken from a recent issue of the Birmingham (England) Weekly Mercury: 
jj.. , "It is with a certain amovmt of difiSdence that a fresh departure 

Collepp fo '^ made in the domain of women's work. So far, however, the 

■^ authorities at King's College for Women have cause only for self- 

congratulation where their special courses in home science and 
household economics are concerned. 

" From ten students during the first year, the college course is now followed by 
twenty, ten of whom are post-graduate students, while nearly half of these are 
university post-graduates. There is no fear now of lowering the standard of aca- 
demic learning by using the knowledge gained in domestic science, and the presence 
of ex-Newnham and Girton students in the roll of post-graduates is undoubtedly 
a fresh feather in the cap of those who have been striving so long to raise home arts 
to a university level. 

One of the best proofs of the success of the scheme has been the laurels won by 
the pupils. One of these. Miss G. H. Rawson, has just accepted the offer of a post 
in a northern secondary school to organize the new science branch, of which the 



446 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

educational authorities are beginning to recognize the importance. Another 
ex-student has been offered the wardenship of the new home science institute in 
Brighton, while a successful graduate is now lecturer at one of the largest provincial 
high schools for girls. There is, in point of fact, far greater demand for the domestic 
university woman than can be supplied. High school mistresses require the very 
highest training nowadays on the part of assistant teachers before they consider 
them competent to coach the girls in science, many of whom are themselves prepar- 
ing for university life. Ordinary practical knowledge of cooking and housewifery 
— excellent though they may be— does not exactly qualify a woman to undertake 
the planning of a school curriculum in Home Economics or in kitchen laboratory 
work any more than a knowledge of drugs enables a man to practise as a doctor, 
and the university student is trained to treat the whole subject from a comprehen- 
sive and highly scientific point of view. 

"The university of domestic science is still too young to point to the eventual 
successes on the part of its ex-students which it is hoped will be theirs in the future. 
It is not only the polytechnic or the elementary school which requires to lay stress 
on the value of a knowledge of home science, on the part of future wives and mothers 
or future teachers— it matters httle which. The modern secondary school for a 
higher class scholar is equally in need of domestic knowledge as a science, and the 
best training which can be got." 



NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 

This association, which was organized last November, held a meeting at the 

Iowa State Teachers College in Cedar Falls, from Friday afternoon, May 13, to 

^ . . Saturday noon. Five members of the Home Economics faculty 

, „ of the Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts 

_ . were present, besides a number of public school teachers and 

Economics. •.,,,, 

mterested club-women. 

The afternoon program gave a birds-eye view of what was being done in Iowa 
along the line of the household arts. Mrs. J. H. Woods, chairman of the Com- 
mittee on Home Economics of the State Federation of Women's Clubs, told what 
the clubs were doing and what they hoped to do. Miss Neale Knowles, of the exten- 
sion department of Iowa State College, gave a most helpful talk on the extension 
work in Home Economics conducted by that institution. A number of reports 
were also given on the status of the work in the pubhc schools of the State. 

Mrs. Alice Peloubet Norton, of the University of Chicago, was the guest of the 
association, reaching Cedar Falls in season for the dinner served at six o'clock 
by the young women of the Home Economics department of the college. In 
the evening she addressed an enthusiastic audience of about four hundred, mostly 
young women, on the topic, The Social Value of the Household Arts. 

The morning session of the association also proved most helpful. Miss Nellie 
Nash, of Waterloo, gave a comprehensive outline of a high school course in Home 
Economics. Miss Lelia Purdy, of Iowa State College, gave helpful suggestions 
regarding the teaching of domestic arts in the grades and high schools, and the last 
half-hour of the morning was given to a question box, conducted by Miss Lulu 
Graves of the same institution. Many felt that more time should have been 
given to this part of the program. — Mary L. Townsexd. 

In the teaching of cooking there are, as is well known, three methods of pre- 
sentation, namely, the demonstrative method, where the work is done by an expert 
before the class; the individual method, where each member of 
Teaching the class having certain materials and following written or ver- 

Cooking in bal directions fashions the materials into some dish; and a method 
the Schools of which combines these two ideas. This last is the method used 
Washington, in the elementary schools of Washington, D. C. The manual 
D. C. training high schools are, however, equipped for the individual 

work. 

In the elementary schools the class is formed into one or more groups and to 
each group sufficient materials are given to make a dish which will serve an ordi- 
nary family. Certain members of each group (changing each lesson) fashion this 
material in the presence of the other members of the group, who are often called 
upon to criticise, give reasons for, or suggestions regarding, the manipulation, com- 
bination or other phases of the preparation of the materials, or to contribute some 
interesting bit of information concerning the materials being used. 



447 



448 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The mental activity and the interest of each member of the group is maintained, 
for each member feels that, though she is not actually handling the material, the 
success of the dish depends on her close attention to the work to prevent those 
who are doing it from making mistakes. Then, too, the cooks, knowing they may, 
by carelessness or inattention, mar the success of the dish, which belongs as much 
to those who watch as to those who cook, take more pains to measure correctly, 
to follow directions exactly and to take every precaution to insure the produc- 
tion of a perfect dish. In this way good habits of workmanship are formed and 
they are trained to appreciate their dependence on one another and a community 
spirit is aroused. 

As the number in each class is kept below twenty each member has frequent 
opportunity to do the actual work and to do it as she will have to do it for a family. 
Moreover, as each member writes out in her own words the directions for what- 
ever she has done or has seen done she must have a clear mental picture of every 
step, and this picture is made clearer by her effort to put it into words. — Emma 
S. Jacobs, Director of Domestic Science. 

The April number of the Journal of the Department of Agriculture atid Technical 
Instruction for Ireland contains an article dealing with the administration and 
organization of itinerant instruction in domestic economy in Ireland, and giving 
a description of a course recently held at the village of Clonaslee. 
Itineran rpj^^ instruction included 20 lessons in cooking and 10 lessons in 

Instruct on j^o^ig sewing and dressmaking. Simple household accounts and 
in Domestic ^^^ Post-OfEce Savings Bank were dealt with, and five-minute 
liconomy in lectures were given on such subjects as cleanliness in dairies, the 
Irelana. cultivation of vegetables, etc. The cooking class was held from 

4 to 6 p.m., and had an average attendance of 15, and the sewing class from 
3 to 5 p.m., with an average attendance of 9. The ages of students varied from 
14 to 30 years, the average being 20 years. 

"There is no greater blessing in this world than a steady job, with increasing 

eflBciency and hence increasing wages as time goes on; and the only way to insure 

that happy state for each individual is to give him the training 

Vocational for some skilled vocation in life, whether it be in business, in 

Education. trade, or in a profession. 

"We are the only progressive nation which allows its ado- 
lescents, the great majority of them, to drift without systematic educational influence 
from the time they are fourteen years of age until they arrive at the threshold 
of citizenship, the age during which the child becomes a youth and man, the age 
during which the plasticity of early childhood gives place to stability, the age 
during which the influences to which he is subjected are likely to be permanent. 
We are allowing the great majority of our youth to go to waste during this period 
because we are not providing for them some means of deepening and intensifying 
their general education, and at the same time we arc not giving them a vocational 
education that shall equip them well to do what the world expects ihem to do, and 
which means for them a career — a chance." Professor Hanus, Chairman of the 
Massachusetts Commission on Industrial Education. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

The Education of Women. Marion Talbot. University of Chicago Press, Pp. 

255. $1.25. 1910. 

If the author had said, as she truthfully might have done, "all of which I saw and 
a large part of which I was," the reader would have appreciated more fully the 
sanity of view and the restrained enthusiasm with which the subject of the aca- 
demic education of women is treated in the volume. 

The growth of that ideal of the material to be used in the process is admirably 
presented as well as the changes in environment and in needs. The somewhat 
tardy awakening of the colleges to what has already taken place is very cleverly 
suggested and might have been carried still farther, but the author is for the most 
part loyal to academic tradition. The glimpses of past and present curricula in 
contrast, the bright illustrations of point of view make the book one which no 
college woman and no teacher of girls can afford to be without. 

The Making of a Trade School. Mary Schenck Woolman. Whitcomb & Barrows. 
1910. Pp. loi. 50 cts. 

For the one per cent of women who go to college thirty per cent have to earn 
bread and butter for themselves and those dependent upon them. The lot of 
the widow with children to be supported is so immeasurably brighter in this cen- 
tury that it is somewhat strange that no novel writer has used it as the basis of 
a plot. Instead of being obliged to scatter her children or to starve over long hand- 
sewed seams, as her only resource, there are 300 kinds of work open to her with 
fair remuneration if her hands have been trained in her youth at a time when 
muscles acquire with rapidity and never forget. It is the vicissitudes of a pos- 
sible future that really makes the trade school for girls an insurance against a 
struggling middle age. It does no harm to the girl to have skill to fall back upon, 
and it may be the saving of herself and her family. Even if the girl does not enter 
or stay in the industry a certainty of being able to do one thing well adds to sta- 
bility of character. This treatise, by the organizer and director of the first experi- 
ment of its kind in the United States, gives not only the history and spirit in which 
the work should be done, but the details of equipment and of financial support. 
The social side is perhaps the most significant as showing the need of special care 
for the health of the working girl and the opportunity for aid in this direction. 

The Revised Syllabus for Elementary and Secondary Schools. Published 
by the Board of Regents of the State of New York. 

Household Arts appears in this syllabus for the first time as an academic sub- 
ject. There is a brief outline for both domestic science and domestic art in the 
elementary school. The secondary syllabus in household arts will contain an 



449 



450 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

outline on clothing, one on foods, and one on household sanitation and manage- 
ment, including the sanitation of the house, laundering, and home care of the 
sick. Copies of the syllabus may be obtained on application to the New York 
State Education Department, State Capitol, Albany, New York. 

Free Publications of the Department of Agriculture Classified for the Use 
of Teachers. Dick J. Crosby and F. W. Howe, U. S. Dept. Agriculture, 
Office of Experiment Stations, Circ. 94, pp. 29. 

This circular presents a selected list of the free publications of the U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, classified for the use of teachers of agriculture, botany, 
chemistry, domestic science and hygiene, geography, physics, physiology, and 
zoology, including entomology. The publications mentioned in this list have 
been selected with special reference to their suitability to supplement college and 
school text books in the subjects mentioned. The list will aid teachers in mak- 
ing a more discriminating selection and use of the department publications. 

About 70 pubHcations are listed as adapted to teaching domestic science and 
hygiene. 

The National Congress of Mothers Magazine. Published monthly, except 
during July and August, by the National Congress of Mothers, 147 North 
Tenth Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 50 cents a year; 10 cents a number. 

This magazine contains articles which should be of interest to workers in Home 
Economics, especially those who are concerned with problems regarding the care 
of children. A recent number contains, among other items, articles on School 
Fatigue, by Helen C. Putnam, M.D.; G. Stanley Hall and the Higher Education 
of Women, by L. Pearl Boggs; The Mind of the Child, by Dunstan Brewer, an 
article taken from the Parents Review, an English publication of similar purpose, 
and one, by the way, of distinct value; and The Sunday-School, by Ednah C. 
Silver. In addition, the magazine contains state news and other items of in- 
formation. — B. R. A. 

Frauenwirtschaft, Zeitschrift fiir das hauswirtschaftliche und gewerbliche 
Frauenwirken. [Woman's Work — A Journal for Housekeepers and Trade 
Workers.] Paderborn. W. Liese, editor. Monthly publication, price 3 marks. 
60 pp. a year. Rev. in Soz. Praxis, 19 (1910), No. 34, p. 942. 

This journal is devoted to the special interests of women engaged in home work 
and in trades. 

Laboratory Notes in Household Chemistry for the use of Students in 
Domestic Science. Hermann T. Vult<; and George A. Goodcll. Kaston, Pa. 
The Chemical Publishing Co., 1910 (second edition), pp. 189. $1.25. 

There has been much objection to "hashed food" in the mental training, expe- 
cially in science, but those who have tried to teach "correct form" chemistry to 
girls and particularly young women will agree that interest in substances with 



igio] Books and Literature 451 

which they have already had some contact is a great help in leading them to plod 
over the dry places for which they can see no possible use. 

This little book begins with that most universal agent, the household fuel, and 
passes on to the functions of the atmosphere of water and of the metals and uten- 
sils of the common every-day living. There are eight chapters on food materials. 

The laboratory experiments are so simple that any high school laboratory should 
furnish the equipment and any teacher of chemistry should be able to make the 
work interesting. The general tone of the book is good and scientific, and the 
references to standard works are frequent, so that it is difficult to suppose a student 
leaving the laboratory with the satisfied opinion that science that has been brought 
into the comprehension of the unscientific is all-sufficient. He will rather have 
a desire for more knowledge. The performance of accurate experiments and 
drawing of careful conclusions is an education in itself for many of the teachers 
who come to the work of fitting for domestic science rather late in youth and from 
an unscientific environment. 

How to Choose and Cook the Cheaper Cuts of Beef. Anna Barrows. 
Harper's Weekly, 54 (1910), No. 2774, pp. 13, 14, figs. 4. 

The selection and preparation of meat and related questions are discussed with 
special reference to economy in the use of this class of food materials, and attention 
is directed especially to the fundamental principles of meat cookery. The article 
as a whole is an interesting and valuable contribution to the subject, summariz- 
ing, as it does, the information which the author has gathered as a result of unusu- 
ally wide experience from the teacher's standpoint as well as that of the labora- 
tory and the home. 

Composition of Figs. R. Paladino. Biochem. Ztschr., 24 (1019), No. 3-5, p. 265. 

Fresh fig flesh, according to the analysis reported, contains 80 per cent water; 
0.7 per cent nitrogenous material, 0.3 per cent fat, 16.2 per cent sugar, 1.30 per 
cent cellulose, 0.7 per cent ash, and 0.8 per cent gummy or mucilaginous material. 
The fig rind or skin contains 86 per cent water, no nitrogenous material, o.i per 
cent fat, 5.4 per cent sugar, 5.76 per cent cellulose, and 2.74 per cent gummy or 
mucilaginous material. Dried figs contain 57 percent water, 4.1 per cent nitrogenous 
material, 2.2 per cent fat, 26.06 per cent sugar, 8 per cent cellulose, 0.18 per cent 
gummy or mucilaginous material, and 2.52 per cent ash. 

An Outbreak of Poisioning by Arsenical Sweets. J. R. Hutchinson. Pub. 

Health [London], 23, (1910), No. 4, pp. 138-142. 

Details are given of the examination by Delepine of samples of confectionery 
and confectionery ingredients in connection with a somewhat extended occur- 
rence of arsenical poisoning in school children. The average amount of arsenic 
found in the candy was from 10 to 11 grains per pound. The investigation did 
not satisfactorily explain how arsenic came to be present, as the materials used in 
making such candies as were under consideration were not found to contain 



452 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Important Points in Wrapping-Pap er designed for Use in connection with 
Foodstuffs. H. Kuhl. Pharm. Zentralhalle. 50 (1909), No. 52, pp. 1079- 
iioo; abs. in Chein. Ztg., 34 (1910), No. 25, Repert., p. loi. 

The author concludes that no paper is satisfactory for this purpose unless it 
is well calendered with gelatin or glue. Whether or not this is the case may be 
ascertained by putting a drop of iron chlorid solution on one surface, allowing it 
to remain for a short time, and then absorbing the surplus liquid with filter paper. 
A drop of tannic acid solution should be placed in the same position on the other 
surface of the paper. If the paper is badly calendered a black spot will be notice- 
able. Badly calendered paper readily absorbs moisture and forms an excellent 
medium for the growth of micro-organisms. 

Left-over Foods and How to Use Them. EHzabeth O. Hiller Kendallville, Ind. 
McCray Refrigerator Co., 1910, pp. 32, pi. i, figs. 15. 

The marketing, selection, care of foods, and similar general matters are dis- 
cussed and a considerable number of recipes are given for the use of left-over 
foods. Sections giving clear and concise directions for the care of the ref rigera tor 
constitute an important feature of the pubUcation. 

Feeding the School Children. Jeanette van Ruypen. Cooking Club Mag., 12 
(1910), No. 6, pp. 63, 64. 

Information is summarized regarding the efforts which have been made in a 
number of cities to supply meals to needy school children, and the importance of 
such work is discussed. 

Rate of Wages and Cost of Living in Yarmouth. A. J. Fleming. Weekly 
Cons, and Trade Rpts. U. S. i (1910), No. 3, p. 102. 

Data regarding rates of wages, cost of food, and other necessities in Yarmouth, 
Nova Scotia, are summarized. 

Wages and Cost of Living in Great Britain. H. Studniczka. Weekly Cons, and 
Trade Rpts. U. S. i (1910), No. 3, pp. 97-102. 

Data regarding the prices of food, the average cost of living in workingmen's 
families, and similar information are sunimarized. 

Quarterly and Yearly Averages of Prices of Provisions during the Year 
1908. W. P. Chapman. Diplo. and Cons. Rpts. London. Ann. Ser., 1908, 
No. 4401, p. 32. 

Data are summarized in tabular form regarding the prices of foodstuffs in 
Florence. 

City Bakeries. C. Aronovici. Survey, 23 (1910), No. 15, pp. 497-499, figs. 4. 

The author briefly reports the results of a study of the condition of bakeries in 
Providence, R. I. Of 106 bakeries examined, 4 were classified as very clean, 21 



igio] Books and Literature 453 

as clean, 40 as tolerably clean, 33 as filthy, and 8 as very filthy. "These figures 
show that only one-fifth of the shops could be classed as clean." 

Night Work in Bakeries. F. Losser. Soz. Praxis, 19 (i9io),No. 31, pp. 818-820. 

The author discusses the need for forbidding night labor in German bakeries, 
and points out what has been accomplished in other countries. 

Regulating Night Work in Swiss Bakeries by Legislative Enactment E. 

Platzhoff, Jr. Soz. Praxis, 19 (1910), No. 31, pp. 820-823. 

The need for limiting night work in bakeries is pointed out, and what has been 
accomplished in Switzerland discussed. 

The Housing Conditions of Employees in Hotels in Hamburg. Soz. Praxis,ig 
C1910), No. 24, pp. 940, 941. 

A report of an extended study from a hygienic standpoint of the housing con- 
ditions of hotel employees, made under the provisions of local legislative enactments. 
Ventilation, light, air, and other similar factors were taken into accoxmt, 

The Removal of Odors Through Ventilation. Kisskalt. Arch. Hyg., 71 (1909) , 
No. 4, pp. 380-386. 

In a contribution from the Hygienic Institute of Berlin, Dr. Kisskalt reports 
that the various distinct odors clinging to prisons, institutions, schools, old dwell- 
ings, old clothes, etc., appear to be due to absorbed substances of unknown compo- 
sition which emit these odors for many months or even years. Good ventilation 
banishes them temporarily but they return when the rooms are closed. 

A test made with ammonia gas in a closed room proved that six weeks was not 
sufficient to remove the whole amount that had been absorbed. Moist materials, 
e.g., clothing, utensils, etc., in a damp room, will absorb more of such odors than 
dry. 

This investigation points to the value of smooth, non-absorbent surfaces and 
to the use of paint and varnish as renovators. 

Cleaning and Renovating at Home. E. G. Osman. Chicago. McClurg. 1910, pp 

193. 75 cts. 

A considerable amount of data are summarized regarding cleaning materials, 
cleaning processes, etc., and directions are given for cleaning and renovating cloth- 
ing and other materials. The work is designed as a household manual. 

How Shall the Little Ones Sew ? Florence Kendrick Johnson. The People's Uni- 
versity Extension Society, 105 East 17th St., New York City. Pp. 32. Price 
10 cts. (institutions and charitable classes, 5 cents, postpaid 6 cents). 

This little book promises to be an excellent guide to those conducting sewing 
classes in settlements or church schools. It is an outgrowth of the work done 
under the Peoples University Exten?ion Society and is the result of study and 



454 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

investigation made in this particular field of sewing for children. It emphasizes 
especially the capabilities of young children and the dire results which come from 
overtaxing the nervous system or straining the eyesight by fine sewing. It is a 
simple, practical book with an illustrated course of study outlined for one year. 
The author also offers suggestions for other courses to follow, but wisely refrains 
from making the plans too definite. She rather advises that they should be the 
result of the needs and peculiar conditions of each class. The two systems of fine 
and coarse sewing for young children are contrasted and the fact demonstrated 
that the old-time fine sewing on scraps is detrimental to the health and interests 
of the young child. The book is an excellent beginning in an important line of 
work. — Anna M, Cooley, Teachers College. 

House Decoration. Dorothy Tuke Priestman. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 
Publishing Co., 1909, pp. 208. $1.00. 

The treatment of walls, the selection of furniture and floor coverings, the 
kitchen, the bathroom, home carpentry, and other related topics are taken up in 
this volume, which as a whole is a useful handbook for the general reader. 



INDEX TO VOLUME I 



1909 



Abel, Mary H., Tj'phoid Fever, In- 
fection and Prevention, 125 

African Natives, Food Habits and 
Customs, Knight, H. L., 356 

Alaska- Yukon Pacific Exposition, Home 
Economics at, 449 

American Home Economics Associ- 
ation, Announcement, i; Boston 
Meeting 295, 389, 452, 455; Con- 
stitution, 40; Denver Meeting, 74, 
184, 292, 319, 436; Executive Com- 
mittee, 183; Meeting of, 296; 
Members, 95, 213; Officers, 86; 
Organization, 22. 

BiRDSEYE, M., Abuse in the Distribu- 
tion of Food Stuffs, 267; Free or 
Inexpensive Pamphlet Literature, 

253 

Bishop, Lana, Bettering of Taste in 
Dress and House Furnishings 
through Domestic Art, 282 

Books and Literature: American Con- 
tribution to the History of the 
Physiology of Digestion, Mendel, 
255; Application of Scientific Meth- 
ods of Housekeeping, Atkinson, 
316; Applied Physiology, Hut- 
chison, 82; Art and Economy in 
Home Decoration, Priestman, 209; 
Bacteria in Relation to Country 
Life, Lipman, 207; Bacteriology of 
the Household, Cornell Reading 
Course, 313; Borderland Studies, 
Gould, 317; Charities and the 
Commons, 84; Civics and Health, 
Alien, 317; Computation of Ra- 
tions for Farm Animals by Use of 
Energy Value, Armsby, 312; Con- 
crete Construction About the Home 
and Farm, 462; Cornell Reading 



Course for Farmers' Wives, 316; 
Cost of Cleanness, Richards, 273; 
Cost of Living of Working Classes 
in Europe, Fox, 442; Country 
School Houses, Wing, 462 ; Crystal- 
line Bleaching Powder, Orton and 
Jones, 398; Cyclopedia of American 
Agriculture, Bailey, 85; Daily 
Consular and Trade Reports, 85; 
Daily Meals of School Children' 
Hunt, 363; Die Unterscheidung 
von Baumwolle und Leinen, Her- 
zog, 82; Diets in Tuberculosis, 
Bardswell and Chapman, 205; 
Domestic Art Review, 210; Domes- 
tic Reform League Bulletin, 315; 
Domestic Science in Schools and 
Colleges, Gray, 397; Economic 
Loss to People of the United States 
through Insects that Carry Disease, 
Howard, 274; Egg Trade of the 
United States, Hastings, 313; Eng- 
land's Field Kitchen, 397; Eqviip- 
ment for Teaching Domestic Sci- 
ence, Kinne, 318; Field Kitchen of 
German Army, Faller, 397; Fight 
Against Consimiption, 314; Fireless 
Cooker, Lovewell, Whittemore and 
Lyon, 313; Food and Nutrition 
Laboratory Manual, Bevier and 
Usher, 209; Food Values, Diet 
Calculation, 462; Free or Inexpen- 
sive Pamphlet Literature, Birdseye, 
253; From an Average Woman, 225; 
Fuels of the Household, White, 397; 
Hartley House Cook Book and 
Household Economist, Pierce, 316; 
Health Studies, Hoag, 397; Herit- 
age of Dress, Webb, 210; Home 
Economics Movement, Bevier and 
Usher, 204; Home Problems from 



465 



466 



The Journal of Home Economics 



a New Standpoint, Hunt, 83; Hotel 
Monthly, 314; House Painting, 
Sabin, 316; How the World is Fed, 
Carpenter, 82; How to Spend a 
Shilling on Food to the Best Advan- 
tage, Davies, 312; Human Foods, 
Snyder, 81; Laboratory Manual of 
Dyeing and Textile Chemistry, 
Matthews, 463; Lake Placid Con- 
ference on Home Economics, 81; 
Laundry, Cornell Reading Course, 
210; Lost Homes and New Flats, 
Hurd, 84; Malnutrition in School 
Children in New York City, Sill, 
369; Manual of Personal Hygiene, 
Pyle, 206; Medical Inspection, 207; 
Methods of Textile Chemistry, 
Dannerth, 83; Methods for Meas- 
uring Capillary Absorption of Ma- 
terials Used in Construction, Pas- 
quale, 463; Metropolitan Magazine, 
316; Mexican Labor in the United 
States, Clark, 174; New Province 
Two Thousand Years Old, Hunt- 
ington, 187; New York State 
Department of Health, Monthly 
Bulletin, 315; North Carolina 
Department of Agriculture, Bul- 
letin, 315; One Woman's Work for 
Farm Women, Buell, 204; Parsi- 
mony in Nutrition, Crichton- 
Browne, 462; Patent Foods and 
Patent Medicines, Hutchison, 397; 
Plastering Outside of Old Dwel- 
lings, Wing, 462; Practical Testing 
of Gas and Gas Meters, Stone, 398; 
Report of the Country Life Com- 
mission, 212; Reports of the Presi- 
dents' Homes Commission, 211; 
Salary Loan Business in New York 
City, Wassam, 85; Seven Centuries 
of Lace, Pollen, 82; Sewing Course, 
Woolman, 209; Sewing Machine 
Times, 314; Small House Plan, 313; 
Standard of Living Among Work- 
ingmen's Families in New York 
City, Chapin, 311; State Super- 
vision of Restaurants, 462; State 



versus Home, IngUs, 315; Structure 
of Wool Fibre, Bowman, 210; 
Textile Chemistry and Dyeing, 
Olney, 463; Textile Fibres, Mat- 
thews, 398; Theory of Dyeing, Hig- 
gins, 463; Town and City, Jewett, 
279; Tuberculosis and Its Preven- 
tion, 207; University Dissertations, 
192; Vitality, Fasting and Nutri- 
tion, Carrington, 208; What Ought 
to Be Done to Make the Scools 
Useful to Our Daughters, Eggleston, 

397 
Brillat-Savarin's Physiology of Taste, 
Clyde Furst, 140 

CakeMi::ng, Mabel T. Wellman, 418 

Carnegie Nutrition Laboratory, 259 

Cellulose, Effect of Cooking on, Edna 
D. Day, 177 

Chinese Turkestan, Food in, Hunting- 
ton's, 187 

Christmas Plum Pudding, Chester- 
ton's, 420 

Clark, Euphemia, Campaign for Home 
Making, 167 

Cleveland, Domestic Science Meeting 
at, 193 

CooLEY, Anna M., Selection of Domes- 
tic Art Subject Matter for Second- 
ary Schools, 52 

Cooper, Thomas, P., Factors and Cost 
of Board on Minnesota Farms, 43 

CoRBETT, Florence R., Training of 
Dietitians for Hospitals, 62 

Cost of Board on Minnesota Farms, 
Thomas P. Cooper, 43, 280 

Cost of living of the Working Classes 
in Europe, Fox's, 442 

Day, Edna D., Efifect of Cooking on Cel- 
lulose, 177 

Diet in the Philippines, C. F. Langwortly 
171 

Dietitian, Visiting, Economic Value of, 
Winifred S. Gibbs, 71 

Dietitians, Need of, in Institutions for 
the Treatment of Tuberculosis, 



Index to Volume I 



467 



Herbert M. King, 67; Training of, 
for Hospitals, Florence R. Corbett, 
62 

Digestion, Essay on, Lafayette B. 
Mendel, 255, 345 

Domestic Art, Bettering of Taste in 
Dress and House Furnishing 
through, Lana Bishop, 282; Selec- 
tion of Subject Matter for Secondary 
Schools, Anna M. Cooley, 52 

Domestic Economy and Cookery, Edin- 
burgh School of, Hester Ridlon, 145 

Domestic Science, Illustrative Material 
for, 75 ; in New York City Schools, 
Mary E. Williams, 77; in Schools, 
and Women's Clubs, Maurice Le 
Bosquet, 178; Japanese Depart- 
ment, 155; Meeting at Cleveland, 
193 

Edinburgh School of Cookery and 
Domestic Economy, Hester Ridlon, 

145 

Editorials: An American Pioneer in Nu- 
trition Investigation, 289; Boston 
Meeting, 452; Cleanliness in Mar- 
kets, Hotels and Restaurants, 289; 
College Course, 182; Control of 
Market, 74; Davis Bill, 74; Denver 
Meeting, 74; 184, Dietitians' Oppor- 
tunity, 73; Executive Committee, 
183; Housewife and This Journal, 
452; Literature of Home Economics 
182; Local Organizations, 73; 
National Education Association, 
386; Nutrition Investigations, 184; 
Nutrition Work in Carnegie Insti- 
tution of Washington, 290; Sug- 
gestions to Journal, 386; Traveling 
Schools of Domestic Science, 183 

Extension Work in Home Economics, 
Martha Van Rensselaer, 156 

Fick Apartment House of Copenhagen, 

447 
FUes and Typhoid Fever, Howard's, 2 74 
Food Stuffs, Abuse in the Distribution 

of, M. Birdseye, 267 



Fruit Juices, Effect of Sugar and Tem- 
perature on, Jenny H. Snow, 261 

Fuels and Their Utilization in Cooking, 
Harriet B. Rinaker, 409 

FuRST, Clyde, Brillat-Savarin's Physi- 
ology of Taste, 140 

Germany, Travehng Cooking Schools 
for Rural Regions, M. Sahn, 164 

GiBBS, Winifred S., Economic Value 
of the Visiting Dietitian, 71 

Haner, Jennie L. K., In Defence of 
Samplers, 354 

Home Economics, Constitution of Asso- 
ciation of Greater New York, 200; 
in University of Minnesota, Juniata 
L. Shepperd, 150; Lake Placid 
Conference on, 3 

Home Making, Campaign for, Euphemia 
Clark, 167 

Home Problems from One Woman's 
Point of View, 225 

Household Expenditures, Study of. 
Bertha M. Terrill, 399 

Hunt, Caroline L., Woman's Public 
Work for the Home an Ethical 
Substitute for Cooperative House- 
keeping, 219 

Industrial Arts and Sciences, Influence 
upon Rural and City Home Life, 
Cree T. Work, 329 

Japanese Department of Domestic 
Science, 155 

King, Herbert M., Need of Trained 
Dietitians in Institutions for the 
Treatment of Tuberculosis, 67 

Knight, H.L., Food Habits and Customs 
of Central African Natives, 356 

Kober. Geo. M., Progress of Sanitation, 
428 

Lake Placid Conference, on Home 
Economies, 3; Meeting of Teaching 
Section, 10 



468 



The Journal of Home Economics 



Langworthy, C. F., Caleb Ticknor, 131; 
Diet in the Philippines, 171; U. S. 
Government Pubhcations as Sources 
of Information for Students of 
Home Economics, 227 

Larned, Linda H., National House- 
hold Economic Association, 185 

Le Bosquet, Maurice, Women's 
Clubs and the Introduction of 
Domestic Science into Schools, 178 

Mendel, Lafayette B., An Essay on 
Digestion, 345 

Mexican Laborers, Food of, in Mexico 
and the United States, Clark's, 1 74 
Minnesota Farms, Cost of Board, 
Thomas P. Cooper, 43, 280 

National Household Economics Associa- 
tion, Linda H. Larned, 185 

News from Field and Institutions: 
American Anti-Accident Associa- 
tion, 199; Baker's Institute, 80; 
California Conference in Home 
Economics, 61; Care of Food in 
the Home, 446; Charities and 
Corrections, National Conference, 
391; Chicago Public Schools, 458; 
Cleveland Association Domestic 
Arts, 181; Colorado State Agricul- 
tural College, 456; Connecticut 
Teachers, 310; Cooking Tables, 191; 
Cost of Feeding City Prisoners, 461; 
Denver, Meeting of National Educa- 
tion Association, 390; Domestic 
Science Teacher and the Com- 
munity, 396; Elementary Schools, 
310; England, Higher Education of 
Women in Home Economics, 281; 
England, Salaries of Teachers of 
Domestic Economy, 310; Florida 
State College 298; Georgia, Do- 
mestic Science Teaching in, 395; 
Great Britian, Home Economics in, 
305; Home Economics Association 
of Greater New York, 21, 460; 
Home Economics Exhibition, 173; 
Hope Farm School for Children, 



458; Housewifery, Centers for, 305; 
Literature of Methods of Teaching 
Home Economics, 460; Mac Donald 
Institute, Guelph, 258; Men as 
Cooks, 184; Middlebury College, 
302; Model Houses in Newark, 260; 
National Education Association, 
308, 390; Newark, Domestic Sci- 
ence in, 149; Newark, Model 
Homes in, 260; New England 
Home Economics Association, 459; 
New York, Home Economics 
Association, 460, 21; New York 
University, 301 ; Ontario, Women's 
Institutes, 303; Philadelphia Alli- 
ance for Lessening Infant Mortal- 
ity, ^06; Philadelphia School Lunch- 
room, 458; Pratt Institute, 298; 
Secondary Schools, 308; School of 
Household Arts, Teachers College, 
New York, 297; State School of 
Health, Proposed, 181 ; St. Lawrence 
University, 173; Studley Horticul- 
tural College, 332; Teacher's Col- 
lege, New York, 93, 298; Teaching 
Methods, Questions in, 189; Train- 
ing Professional Cooks, 166; Uni- 
versity of California, 393; of Chic- 
ago, 92; of Illinois, 92, 301, 456; of 
Missouri, 300; of Nebraska, 61; of 
Toronto, 93; of Vermont, 302, 
456; of Wisconsin, 457; of Wyo- 
ming, 457; of Washington, House- 
keepers of, 76; Round Table at. 
188; State College of, 395; Western 
Drawing and Normal Training 
Association, 307; Woman's Col- 
lege of Baltimore, 302; Women's 
Clubs, Plans for, 303; Women's 
Institutes of Ontario, 303; Yale 
University, 458 

New York City Schools, Domestic 
Science in, Mary E. Williams, 77 

North Carolina, Women's Institutes in, 
161 

Pamphlet Literature, Free or Inexpen- 
sive, M. Birdseye, 253 



Index to Volume I 



469 



Parloa, Miss Maria, Obituary, 378 
Philippines, Diet in, C. F. Langworthy, 
171 

RiDLON, Hester, Another View of the 

Sunshine Laundry, 375; Edinburgh 

School of Cookery and Domestic 

Economy, 145 
RiNAKER, Harmet B., Fuels and their 

Utilization in Cooking, 409 
Rochester Elementary Schools, Textile 

Study in, Katherine F. Steiger, 

28s 
Rural and City Home Life, Influence of 

Industrial Arts and Sciences upon, 

Cree T. Work, 329 

Salm, M., Traveling Cooking Schools 

for Rural Regions in Germany, 164 
Samplers, In Defence of, Jennie L. K. 

Haner, 354 
Sanitation, Progress of, Geo. M. Koher, 

428 
School Children, Daily Meals of, Hunt, 

363; in New York City, Mal- 
nutrition of. Sill's, 369 
School of Household Arts, Teachers 

College, New York, 297 
Shepperd, Juniata L., Home Economics 

in University of Minnesota, 150 
Shfow, Jenny H., Effect of Sugar and 

Temperature on Fruit Juices, 261 
Steiger, Katherine F., Textile Study 

in Rochester Elementary Schools, 

28s 
Stith, WiUiam., An Early American 

Student of Nutrition, 421 
Studley Horticultural College, 332 
Simshine Laundry, Hester Ridlon, 375 

Terrill, Bertha M., Study of House- 

- , hold Expenditures, 399. 

Textile Study in Rochester Elementary 

Schools, Katherine F. Steiger, 

28s 



Ticknor, Caleb, an Early American 
Writer on Nutrition, C. T. Lang- 
worthy, 131 

Trade Mark, Functions of, Anna R. Van 
Meter, 333 

TraveUng Cooking Schools for Rural 
Regions in Germany, M. Salm, 164 

Tuberculosis, Domestic Science Teachers 
in the Campaign Against, Ira S. 
Wile, 117; Need of Trained Diet- 
itians in Institutions for Treatment 
of, Herbert M. King, 67 

Typhoid Fever, Infection and Preven- 
tion, Mary H. Abel, 125 

University of Minnesota, Home Eco- 
nomics in, Juniata Shepperd, 150 

United States Government Publications 
as Sources of Information for 
Students of Home Economics, C. 
F. Langworthy, 227 

Van Meter, Anna R., Functions of 

the Trade Mark, 333 
Van Rensselaer, Martha, Extension 

Work in Home Economics, 156 

Washington Convention, 7 

Wellman, Mabel T., Cake Mixing, 
418 

Wile, Ira S., Domestic Science 
Teachers, in the Campaign Against 
Tuberculosis, 117 

Williams, Mary E., Domestic Science 
in New York City Schools, 77 

Women's Public Work for Home, an 
Ethical Substitute for Cooperative 
Housekeeping, CaroUne L. Hunt, 219 

Women's Clubs and the Introduction 
of Domestic Science into Schools, 
Maurice Le Bosquet, 178; Insti- 
tutes in North Carohna, 161 

Work, Cree T., Influence of Industrial 
Arts and Sciences upon Rural and 
City Horde Life, 329 



INSTITUTIONS NUMBER 

THE 

Journal^/Home Economics 



Vol. II. NOVEMBER, 1910 No. 5 



EDITORIALS. 

Groups living together under one roof are growing larger and larger, 

T j.'^ X- -Pi t. and the problems of satisfactorily administerinsr 
Institution Prob- ,, ^ • . ,, , r •, u • 

. J , the affairs of the larger family are becoming 

„ , ,, more and more complex. As wants increase 

Household. . - . .-, ,.,... , 

in variety, the cost of living increases and econ- 
omy in the conduct of affairs becomes a pressing necessity. Coopera- 
tion is taking the form of community living rather than cooperative 
family housekeeping, which seems to have failed on trial. 

These conditions bring to the front not only financial questions, 
but also social and psychic problems which must be really studied. 
The merely mechanical details of community living are not more 
di£5cult than many others which have been successfully worked out 
in other kinds of business and manufacture. Like all inventions the 
difficulties are in the first stage of trial. But in household manage- 
ment there are two new factors. First are the individualistic pref- 
erences which have been fostered by the private life of the family, 
and which disturb the large home rather than add to its attractive- 
ness. Cooperation, the union of individual efforts for the common 
good of the whole community, is not understood — wilfully disregarded, 
no doubt. The recognition that cooperation must be based on a 
common law or principle, while individualism is lawless and whimsical, 
will mean a long step towards a solution of the living problem. 

The second factor in obstruction is the lack of team.-work — one 
might say the rebellion against it of the household manager and 
worker. Women want their own way, whether it is a good way or 
not. Their province is the last stronghold of traditionalism. They 
have been slow to see the advantage of scientific ways and inventions, 



472 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

and they are adopting them only imder the compulsion of circum- 
stances. In this negligence, women may perhaps be said to be only 
negatively at fault. The social condition is the positive reason, and 
the housekeepers will not give up their inherited views. Why? 
Because they cannot see the new way without much work, much 
thought and much readjustment. They are, in truth, lazy. 

If housewives are to have anything to say about the habits and 
customs of living which the middle of the twentieth century will see 
established, they must bestir themselves. It is necessary for them 
to grasp some of the business principles underlying the living cor.di- 
tions of large groups before they can bring any modification into the 
mechanical tendency of the single home. 

For this reason women are urged to undertake the study of the exist- 
ing groups — school and college dormitones, summer hotels, apart- 
ment houses, cafes, tea rooms and restaurants, to see wherein funda- 
mental assumptions may be amended before they become settled 
habits expressed in brick and stone and therefore difficult to change. 

It is necessary to study the social and psychic conditions in order 
to establish these principles. Therefore at present the discussions 
must be largely pragmatic and argumentative, though never dogmatic. 

The recent Lake Placid meeting marks the beginning of a new era, 
and as such is worthy of more attention than even the individual 
papers warrant. 

Ellen H. Richards. 

The problems of institutional management are growing apace in 

TV. T ff +• ^^^^ country. Whether these problems concern 

_ . , the well-being of the child in orphan asylum and 

,^ , boarding school, the youth in college dormitory 

Helper o ' ^ "J 

^ ' and factory boarding house, the traveling public 

in hotels, the sick in hospitals or the inmates of prisons and reforma- 
tories, they can be met only by such a consultation of experts as 
took place at Lake Placid in July last. Superintendents, matrons, 
purveyors, nurses, social workers, will all find the papers presented, 
and which appear in this number of the Journal, both valuable 
in the subject-matter presented and suggestive as to future work 
along these lines. 

It has been asked what lesson have these papers for the householder, 
she who presides over a very small group? For the household 
whose income is certain and adequate for the scale of living that 



igio] Editorials 473 

has been adopted, direct help and very valuable suggestion will be 
found in these papers. System, order, accurate accounting so that 
we may know an economy when we see it are greatly needed in the 
average household. If the care of dormitory bedrooms can be 
standardized, so also can the care of home bedrooms. And yet we 
must look with tolerance on individual needs and consider the com- 
plexity of the housekeeper's problem. Homes are established without 
a board of trustees, without a permanent bank account, without a 
settled policy as to the relative importance between a balanced ration 
and a Sunday gown for the mother; and their relation to the general 
good or to commonly accepted standards is in many cases slowly learned 
by the pressure of outside forces. The proportion of the income 
available for housekeeping is often too variable, too much influenced 
by the various tastes and preferences of the different members of the 
family to admit of applying to it the standards of hotel and hospital. 
To eke out the sum needed for the son's or daughter's college course, 
the store of household Hnen may be allowed to run low until the end 
of the four years, the house denied its rightful coat of paint, and 
the family compelled to "put up" with a far from perfect bathroom, 
and who shall say that. a mistake has been made ? We all know that 
the apportionment of the household income after the primal needs 
are met touches important questions of ethics as well as economics, 
and may be called the keynote of the social and moral status of any 
given family, of whose many functions, let us remember, housekeep- 
ing is but one. The problem of the institution is far simpler in that 
it is much more confined to housekeeping alone. 

But the small householder, although debarred from direct imitation 
of the methods employed in hospital and hotel, has warrant for a 
growing interest in the usages of large institutions and ways of meet- 
ing their problems. For instance, by observing hospital methods she 
may be convinced that it is perhaps impossible to carry through in 
her own house a case of contagious disease without danger to the 
rest of her family, and she will realize that the hospital will more 
and more be the resource in such emergencies ; if it is proved to her 
that the hotel and restaurant are well-kept she will more and more 
use them for the occasional dinner when light housekeeping palls; 
more and more insistent already is heard her demand for food depots 
where cooked food above reproach from a sanitary point of view, and 
yet of reasonable price, can be obtained for consumption at home, 
such food as the New England Kitchen furnished in Boston, 



474 ^^^^ Journal of Home Economics [November 

The small householder also increasingly needs the help of the laundry 
and bakery, the fine equipment and wholesale methods of which, 
she realizes, should enable them to put the home wash tub and 
range oven out of business. But both of these industries are yet to 
be brought under proper inspection; the laundry as to unhygienic 
methods, the use of destructive chemicals and combined action to 
keep up unnecessarily high prices (it has been shown in at least 
one city that the price for flat work can be placed far below 
twenty-five cents a dozen); the bakery chiefly as to its cleanliness 
and the quaUty of its product, for it remains a fact that the Ger- 
man baker who produces in Germany a loaf which no housewife can 
equal, bakes bread in his adopted land of such a sawdusty flavor 
and consistency that the housewife with any standards as to what 
this staff of life should be is forced to make bread in her own kitchen, 
where she reaches better results with good materials combined with 
only average skill. It would seem that we are to gain better in- 
spection and control of these industries only by going outside and 
fighting for it as we did for the honest label on can and package, 
which when obtained gave new value to the products of cannery 
and packing house. 

This is our greatest interest in the large organization. It must 
serve us honestly, effectively and cheaply, and thus take out of the 
house the heaviest tasks, and those for which it is not equipped. 
And to what end? Not that the house mother shall be freed of 
duties owed her family, but that the amount of house work may be 
so reduced that she can in most cases handle what is left with ease 
and without the presence of a servant, thus enabHng her to make of 
the house work an invaluable teaching plant for the children of the 
family, something she cannot do if the work is so heavy as to exhaust 
her and take all her time, or if an outsider, cook, or other helper is 
present. 

We do not appreciate as yet the value of the household arts in the 
education of young children who help the mother in performing them 
in an unhurried way and with the best appliances. And to this must 
be added the cultivation of the home garden plot, for, if we may judge 
by the opinions and projects of the farsighted men and women who 
are giving their time and energy to social service, the child of the 
future is to be brought up in the country or city suburbs and in small 
groups which shall bear a vital relation to one woman, the mother, 
either real or adopted. Scattered groups of this kind arc not to be 
helped by any plans for community living. 



19 1 o] Editorials 475 

Is not this relief of the household by the better organization of out- 
side business for doing some of its heaviest tasks the next great 
work to be attacked? 

Mary Hinman Abel. 

To standardize housework, as business has 
Standardization already been standardized, is one of the tasks 
of Housework. for the near future. If you should ask twenty 

housekeepers how many maids would be required 
to care for two hundred bed-rooms under stated conditions, possibly 
two or three of the answers might agree. Probably none would do so. 
The manager of a laundry can tell you how many shirts an average 
ironer can put through in a day. The factory foreman knows the 
exact output of each department for any given time. Yet in work 
no less important we are still groping uncertainly. A few investiga- 
tions have been made, but they are a mere beginning. In dining 
room service there is more nearly an agreement as to what one person 
can do than in other departments of housekeeping. During the past 
year at Teachers College a student has taken for her research work 
a comparison of chamberwork in five college dormitories of different 
institutions, making careful time studies in each case. We need 
very many more such studies — hundreds of observations, in fact, 
from which to take averages. All kinds of institutions and all kinds 
of domestic tasks should be studied, so that any inquirer in any 
phase of the work may be able to gain reliable information suited to 
his particular needs. 

A young woman in New York was recently 
Study of asked if she would consider a position as head of 

Finance. a lunch room. She answered: "I shall not know 

till I have heard just how much money you will 
allow me to spend for maintaining that standard for meals which, 
you say, you insist upon." 

The good sense of this reply is obvious, yet how many managers, 
either of private homes or of institutions, can tell accurately in ad- 
vance (barring the fluctuations of the market) how far a definite sum 
of money will go toward feeding and housing people under certain 
conditions. We need more study — careful, painstaking study — of 
the value of a dollar. The training schools can and must help us by 
requiring courses in business management of all those who seek the 



476 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

responsibility of spending other peoples' money. Institution man- 
agers can help us by keeping their records of expenditure in such 
thoughtful and intelligent form as to be, when called for, a valuable 
contribution on this subject. The home makers can help us by keep- 
ing strict and classified household accounts, and directing their 
children in the same paths. The most insistent complaints of poor 
food and poor service throughout a building, come, as a rule, from 
those who have had the least experience in domestic affairs, large or 
small, and who have never learned how much and how little a dollar 
will buy. 

Practical sanitation in crowded centers offers 
Household a field for the most zealous work. Much has been 

Pests. written, and well written, on the subject of 

household pests, yet the last word has still to 
be spoken. New York City, as is well known, is infested with vermin, 
and large institutions situated therein are constantly asking each 
other how to fight this great enemy of cleanliness. Many of the 
agents recommended contain combustible materials prohibited by 
insurance companies. Other remedies are dangerous to humian life. 
Still other "sure cures" have odors which make their use practically 
impossible in buildings containing hundreds of inmates. The prob- 
lem which faces administrators of hospitals, dormitories, etc., in 
crowded cities is appalling. May not some of the study of the near 
future be directed in this channel? 

Much is said, nowadays, about standards in all 
Institution our institution work. We have yet to come 

Government. to an agreement as to the simplest, sanest form 

of government. The names "superintendent," 
"housekeeper," "matron," etc., are still rather vague terms. Re- 
sponsibiUty without authority is preventing good work in many 
quarters. Will not the American Home Economics Association help 
the institutions to some uniformity in these matters? Probably 
hospitals are the most nearly agreed, but in other institutions an 
amazing variety of interpretations prevail. Definiteness and con- 
sistency as to the duties, rank and practical authority belonging 
with each title would give, we believe, new dignity to the worker, and 
through closer organization, an improvement in the quality of work. 



GENERAL PROBLEMS IN ADMINISTRATIVE WORK.' 

Adelaide Nutting, 

Teachers College, New York City. 
Chairman of Session. 

Miss Nutting opened the meeting by a brief presentation of the 
field of administration, showing the developments which have taken 
place in recent years in institution life, the new avenues of adminis- 
trative work which have thus been opened up, and pointing out the 
tendency of the day toward specialization, through which further 
similar developments might be looked for. The hospital was referred 
to as a prominent type of institution, in which the growth both in 
numbers and variety had been especially striking, the number rising 
from about one hundred twenty-five years ago to over six thousand 
as recorded to-day, and the variety such as to call for an extensive 
classification, both as to form of government— such as state, munici- 
pal and private— and kind of work— such as that called for in emer- 
gency work, childrens', psychopathic, tuberculosis, etc. 

The increase in the number of college dormitories was also noted, 
and mention was made of clubs and settlements, and of the com- 
mercial field of administrative work as seen in hotels, apartment 
houses, restaurants and lunchrooms. The same problems, varying 
only in dimensions and intensity, were shown to be common to all, 
each calling for highly organized, highly skilled housekeeping, and 
for the educated administrator. 

Referring again to the hospital. Miss Nutting pointed out the steady 
advance in knowledge of foods and nutrition, of the continuous inves- 
tigations and experiments made in this subject, and of the modern 
hospital as the center of much of study and experiment, as well as of 
the practical application of new discoveries, theories and methods. 

T 'Tbe following papers, with the accompanying discussion, were presented at the 
L-ake Placid Conference of the Administration Section of the American Home 
Economics Association, June 27 to July i, 1910. A program of the conference 
IS given on page 583 of this number. 



477 



478 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

To make such practical application of scientific knowledge, it became 
necessary to create the dietitian. 

As typical of some of the specialized fields of work, a brief review 
was made of the duties of the dietitian in the modern hospital, as 
follows : 

''In almost all hospitals, the dietitian will be called upon to arrange 
for at least five types of dietaries, and suitable variations must be 
made within each type, the governing factor often being the per 
capita cost per day, which may range from eleven cents to forty or 
fifty cents. There is first the daily dietary for the non-paying patient 
in which the maximum of nourishment must be secured for the mini- 
mum cost. On the other hand there is also the dietary of the private 
wards, which is in essence that of a hotel where not only the very sick 
must be cared for, but also where convalescents in various stages call 
for much thought. The choice and combination of foods and their 
preparation and service must be well-nigh faultless if they are to 
satisfy people accustomed to such standards in their ow'n homes, and 
unwilling to accept less in sickness, elsewhere. The special diet of 
individual patients is often their sole treatment. Any diet is apt to 
grow monotonous, whereas a new dish may cause as much excitement 
as Halley's comet. The recovery of the patientsometimes rests upon 
the skill, fidelity and judgment with which a prescribed diet is adminis- 
tered, and while the nurse may be the direct agent, the quality of 
food and its selection are not usually within her province, but rest 
frequently with the dietitian, who is usually also responsible for its 
preparation. 

"The dietary of the students in the training school, upon whom in 
the last analysis the burden of the hospital work rests, should also 
be a matter of constant thought and attention. It may be simple, 
but it should be extremely nourishing, well cooked and well served, 
and I believe that unwise economy in this department is detrimental — 
highly so — to the best interests of the entire institution. 

"In addition to the body of student nurses there will be a staff of 
residents, whose work is important and arduous. The same need exists 
for a generous dietary for them, but I lay less emphasis upon it here, 
because there is usually less difficulty in securing suitable food for 
the physicians than for the student nurses. Finally comes a group 
of employees of varying types, men and women, whose work is essen- 
tial to the efficiency of the institution, and whose needs in the way of 
daily food are obvious. 



19 lo] Problems in Administrative Work 479 

"The dietitian in such a field has problems of very grave import- 
ance, and careful scientific, technical, and practical training is required 
in a modern hospital to handle the situation efiiciently. It would be 
almost as useless a task to attempt to train a nurse by theoretical 
methods and expect her to understand and handle efficiently the vary- 
ing problems of illness, as to expect a woman trained only in the 
laboratory and class room to direct successfully so important and com- 
plicated a field of practical work. One woman may pay the highest 
prices and select the best foods, but lack business knowledge and 
be blind to spattered windows, sticky and soiled cruets, and dirty floors. 
Another may have knowledge of foods but fail entirely in handling 
employees. There is a clear-cut, definite demand that dietitians shall 
be trained women, not relying solely on the telephone but knowing 
conditions, markets, prices and quality. Before we can produce 
the right women, there must be a well worked out, practical sys- 
tem. To discuss the essentials of such a system of education for the 
various grades of institution workers is one of the purposes of this 
Conference. 

"It seems evident that a dietitian should have a good working 
knowledge of physiology as well as of chemistry and physics, and 
there should be no uncertainty about the matter of bacteriology, 
since sanitary precautions need nowhere to be more scrupulously 
observed than in the handling of food materials, their storage, preser- 
vation and preparation. After the dietitian has had good scientific 
groundwork and applied science in the laboratory, she must seek 
some contact with the actual problem of selecting, buying and com- 
bining foods, with seeing that they are properly cooked and served 
three times a day, and with meeting the emergencies that may arise 
in the purchase, preparation and serving of such meals. Work of 
this nature should be done by the student under supervision and 
direction, and not until she has demonstrated her power to plan and 
carry out to the last detail the work involved in her department and 
her ability to meet its ordinary responsibilities, should she present 
herself to the hospital as ready and competent to assume control of 
one of its most important departments." 

Following this survey of the field of the dietitian as fairly repre- 
sentative of the more specialized branches of administrative work, 
the matter of nomenclature was brought forward. A serious study 
of this point was urged, in order that the province and duties of the 
various grades of institution workers might be carefully defined, and 



480 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

appropriate titles instituted where now non-existent. Confusion as 
to the functions of house director, matron, housekeeper, or of dieti- 
tian, purveyor, steward, could only be removed by such exact and 
careful defining, which would be of great assistance in planning suit- 
able courses of study for the preparation of such workers. The Eng- 
lish term manageress, the French econome, and Mrs. Richards' sug- 
gested refectioner or refector, were discussed, and the advisability of 
appointing small committees to agree upon nomenclature as well as 
courses of study was urged. It was further pointed out that while 
commercial rewards are fair in the administrative field of work, its 
intrinsic importance in the community is the point at issue, and one 
which must be constantly em^phasized. 



Certain Phases of Instruction in Institutional Management. 

Sarah Louise Arnold. 
Dean of Simmons College. 

This paper does not attempt to deal with the intimate problems 
of institutional administration, which belong to the expert. It is 
presented rather from the point of view of one who has necessarily 
dealt with organization for instruction, has considered the problems 
as suggested by the demand for workers and the reports from the 
field, and who has viewed the subject chiefly as an extension of the 
original field of Household Economics. 

It is evident that there is an urgent demand for women of native 
abihty, mature experience, social aptitude, good judgment, prompt- 
ness in meeting emergencies, and sound business sense, to direct 
institutional housekeeping, if so awkward a phrase may be allowed. 
It is clear that many of these qualities must be contributed by the 
individual. They cannot be secured by a fixed course of study in 
school or college. On the other hand, they may be developed by wise 
tuition. And, further, opportunities may be provided for such 
observation, such practice under expert guidance, such interpretation 
of accumulated experience, as will fortify the worker and prevent her 
from making the mistakes of the novice. 

This, I take it, has been the purpose of the various courses in insti- 
tutional management which have been hitherto provided. No course 
has been supposed to be complete. Its virtue has depended chiefly 



J^Qio] Instruction in Institution Management 481 

upon its suggest! veness, its provision of opportunities for observa- 
tion and practice, and the semi-professional attitude which has been 
developed by association in the study of a common vocation. What 
we have to say, therefore, cannot be at all in the nature of a last word 
on the subject. We are all groping towards the light, but there are 
already many signs of the coming day. 

The experiments in training for institutional administration which 
have been carried on at Simmons College for the past six years have 
naturally been closely connected with the evolution of the manage- 
ment of a city dormitory on the one hand and the development of 
courses in the school of Household Economics on the other. It 
seemed reasonable to establish a course in institutional management 
under the leadership of the house superintendent, whose ability and 
judgment in practical administration provided a natural reservoir of 
immediate instruction. A small group of mature students was there- 
fore gathered under her direction, with the understanding that at 
least one half of the time should be given to the study of related sub- 
jects at the college, and the other half to observation and practice 
in the college dormitories, united with visits to institutions and 
abundant opportunity for marketing. With the college authorities 
approving the experiment, it was possible to make use of the dormitory 
as a training school, with the daily affairs of dormitory administra- 
tion as a text for instruction. The problems connected with such use 
of a college residence will be discussed later. It was clear, however, 
that the laboratory was the essential element in such instruction, 
and the college gave every opportunity for such practice, as the 
demands arose. 

Miss Colburn, who carried the first years of this course, brought 
great enthusiasm and unfailing devotion to the work. Her broad 
experience and her professional spirit gave both breadth and intensity 
to her teaching. With every year, therefore, the course was strength- 
ened. On the withdrawal of Miss Colburn the instruction was con- 
tinued by Mrs. Weld, who came from successful experience in hospital 
administration. The college lunch room was added to her domain 
and arrangements were made with the Women's Educational and 
Industrial Union for the provision of additional practice under busi- 
ness conditions. The demand for graduates from this course always 
exceeds the supply, and the number of registrations indicates that 
the necessity of preparation for institutional administration is recog- 
nized as never before. 



482 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

Certain principles may be fairly deduced from even so brief an 
experience. Of these I have selected certain essentials for further 
discussion. 

First, the principles of institutional housekeeping have much in 
common with the administration of the private home, and the student 
may with profit follow ordinary courses in Household Economics as 
a foundation. The common fundamental knowledge having been 
secured either through college courses or earlier preparation and 
practice, the emphasis of specific courses in these subjects should be 
chiefly placed upon phases which are apparent only in institutional 
life. For example, a perusal of the columns of "discoveries" in a 
magazine devoted to the interests of the household shows clearly that 
devices which are useful to the individual will not serve in the hands 
of a changing body of paid servants. The equipment of a hotel 
kitchen must take into account carelessness in handling utensils, 
the rapidity of service, and congestion at times of greatest pressure, 
all of which increase the probabilities of breakage. The equipment 
then, must either be frequently renewed or must be fitted to with- 
stand the usage attending these conditions. The exquisite china, 
which is delightful to contemplate on the home table and which 
is handed down from generation to generation by the careful house- 
wife, naturally disappears from dormitory, hotel or club, except where 
cost of residence is made to include cost of breakage and the desire 
for the beautiful and attractive is met by the increased amount 
paid for care, for labor, and for renewal of material. The institu- 
tional question, therefore, is not simply what equipment is immed- 
iately attractive and supposedly serviceable but what equipment 
will meet the demands of this particular institution wuth the utmost 
satisfaction and the least expense. 

Or again, the menus provided for the private family, which are not 
only othodox as to dietary, but toothsome and aesthetically attrac- 
tive, are often costly in expenditure of time. Such expenditure is 
not ordinarily estimated in the private family, as it is freely given 
out of the time and thought of the home-maker, who gives everything 
for the sake of those whom she serves. The institution, on the other 
hand, must pay for all such provision, and it requires a wise head to 
apply the household experience in a manner which will secure attrac- 
tiveness and efficiency with the least expenditure in labor, in time, 
and in money. Many things, therefore, which arc c^icouraged in the 
housewife must be discouraged in the institution if it is to be an eco- 
nomic success. 



19 lo] Instruction in Institution Management 483 

These illustrations may suffice to indicate the truth that it is well 
for the candidate in institutional management to bring to her course 
a full knowledge of individual housekeeping and the principles involved 
therein, in order that she may give the time of her institutional course 
chiefly to the practices in which the institution must differ from the 
home. 

It follows that general courses in household arts, — cooking, sewing 
cleaning, etc., ought not to be an essential feature of the instruction 
in institutional management. The student who is properly prepared 
will bring this knowledge with her. Thus far, however, it has been 
necessary to give this elementary instruction to many of the candi- 
dates — and here has been one of the difficulties of the course. Later 
we may be able to require either assurance of such preparation before 
entrance, or a prolongation of the course if such elementary instruc- 
tion must be included. 

The course of instruction should include general principles and the 
application of these principles in specific cases. Sanitation presents 
a fair illustration of this requirement. The student can hardly 
know too much of fundamental science in order to be intelligent 
as to sanitation. On the other hand, her general knowledge will 
not suffice unless her attention is directed to specific applications as 
required in the hospital, in the dormitory in quarantine, in drainage 
and plumbing problems, and in the attention to food supply. Wise 
expenditure will not be assured until the student sees all her supplies 
in relation to the essential needs of the family. In the application 
of such principles she may balance mosquito netting over against a 
dainty meringue and decide in favor of the homely but more essential 
expenditure. There will be no question of administration which is 
not fastened in some way to such fundamental principles of science 
or economics. 

Here again, then, it becomes evident that the student who is best 
prepared for her work will bring training in science. To this should 
be added economics, with some understanding of social problems, 
and a thorough course in principles of business administration as 
applied to housekeeping. The first two of these may be secured 
through intelligent reading, if the student is sufficiently thoughtful 
and mature. The last-named is not yet "written in the books," so 
far as housekeeping is concerned. It is probable that no such course 
will be outlined until some inteUigent housekeeper with business 
ability joins hands with an intelligent accountant who has suffered 



484 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

from the defects of his own housekeeping. Through the common 
effort of authors thus equipped we may be supplied with an adequate 
course in the study of institutional expenses. 

This course, for which we all are waiting, should be something more 
than elementary bookkeeping and accounting. To record in figures 
amounts received and paid out is a matter of elementary equipment. 
To be able to study institutional administration, judging clearly as 
to essentials and non-essentials, cause and effect, values in money, 
in time, and in labor, the unavoidable wear and tear accompanying 
everyday use of equipment, the accumulated losses through incon- 
venience and unsuitable material, the accumulated gains through 
economical investments and suitable care, — all these and a hundred 
other kindred matters belong to such a study of institutional life. 

It is not likely that many instructors can at the moment be found 
prepared to map out such a course. Neither is it probable that the 
young student, unfamiliar with responsibility in expenditure, would 
understand such topics however skillfully presented. It seems clear 
that the woman who is to succeed in such administration should have 
some practice in business affairs in a field where the dollar is given 
only for value received. The administration of a hospital or dormi- 
tory, where the income is supplied without personal responsibility, 
does not present clearly all sides of this problem. Actual apprentice- 
ship in some specific business would prove of great value to the candi- 
date in institutional management. Perhaps no experiment in the 
course provided by Simmons College has been more valuable than 
that which has connected instruction in institutional management 
with the opportunities offered by the Women's Educational and 
Industrial Union and the New England Kitchen, which provides 
luncheons for the high schools of the city of Boston. In the ordinary 
pubhc lunch-room one must meet the public demand, varying with 
weather, with holidays, with the procession in the neighboring street, 
or the accident which blocks the cars. One must learn to make ends 
meet and to confront emergencies with composure. The school 
luncheon must be served, wholesome, ample, hot or cold as the weather 
may dictate, on the exact moment, with lightning speed and unvary- 
ing precision. The art of giving much for little must be studied and 
the demands of the boy-and-girl public carefully considered. All the 
while the canons of nutrition must not be disobeyed, though the 
clamoring buyers demand hot doughnuts and pink ice cream. 

Such training ought to develop business ability and a clear conception 



igio] Instruction in Institution Management 485 

of a genuine demand. It goes without saying that the student 
derives value from the experience proportional to the amount of 
previous experience which she herself is able to supply. The com- 
plete course of instruction then, should secure the following: 

(i) Understanding of general principles in science, economics and 
social service. 

(2) Knowledge of the principles of business expenditure and 
general administration. 

(3) The application of these principles to the art of housekeeping 
in specific institutions. This will necessitate (a) observation and 
practice under guidance in some institution; {b) interpretation of the 
observation of institutional life; and (c) interpretation and discussion 
of the practice. 

A single year will not suffice for such a course, particularly if ele- 
mentary instruction must be added to make good deficiencies in prepa- 
ration. It might be well to require apprenticeship in an institution 
either between the courses of instruction, or in the midst of such a 
course. If the students were to enter in September, study, observe, 
and practice until June, take temporary positions for the summer, 
and return for a three or four months' course in college after vacation, 
the value of the present year's course would be more than doubled. 

A valuable element in any course in administration are the reports 
from the field. Such reports may be made by masters of the art or 
by the beginner, in whose mind the immediate difficulties loom large. 
Anything which fastens the attention of the student upon the actual 
problems of the work and forces her to look for remedies in her study, 
will give point and life to the work. Frequent discussion of letters 
asking for workers and enumerating the responsibilities attending 
positions will reinforce the instruction in a vital manner. 

Reference has been made to the difficulties attending the use of 
a college dormitory as a laboratory for practice. This d'fficulty is 
two-fold. In the first place, an intimate study of details of adminis- 
tration, with the natural balance of pros and cons with reference to 
expenditures desired or prohibited, cannot in the nature of things be 
made by students and discussed by the resident student body with 
perfect understanding. The range of expenditure never comes within 
reach of the ordinary undergraduate, who has not yet learned how to 
measure income and outgo and who rarely keeps even a personal cash 
account. That the institution should not provide all the perquisites 
of the home, including the work basket, express fees, and gratuitous 



486 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

service is naturally incomprehensible to the freshman, and is not 
always clear to the senior. It is not to the advantage of any insti- 
tution to have all the details of expenditure pubHcly discussed by 
groups who are not familiar with the aggregate cost of maintaining 
a large plant all the year around, with the expense attendant upon 
depreciation, accident, or problems in administration. It is there- 
fore a very heroic person who reveals the pages of the daybook to the 
students of institutional hfe who are present in the midst of the family. 
This in itself creates a delicate problem in institutional practice. 

Relations with servants may likewise hinder the desired practice 
on the part of the student. The apprentice of the moment must 
learn from cook or maid, or at least must stand beside her, and the 
duties of the latter are likely to be much increased by the fleeting 
procession of novices, experimenting with soups and doughs. While 
this may be skillfully managed, it is costly in every way. The fact 
that a small group must be admitted at one time lengthens the pro- 
cession and to the servant the completion of the immediate day's 
task is dominant. Dinner must be served for the family at the 
appointed hour with ordinary procedure and emergencies met as 
best they may at a moment's notice. The presence of the would-be 
helper may therefore, be an encumbrance. On the other hand, to 
the instructor, the evolution of the pupil is the essential aim and the 
dinner is secondary. One needs all the wisdom of the ages to deal 
wisely with human nature under these conditions. We all know that 
under present conditions of domestic service, the problem just sug- 
gested is not a small one. It is a pleasure to record the genuine 
interest which has been expressed by the employees at the college 
under discussion, who have cooperated to the utmost in the experi- 
ment now being reported. Nevertheless, the problem is evident, and 
fairness to both sides requires a careful study of the situation. It is 
clear that the difl&culty would be much increased if the superintendent 
in charge of the housekeeping were not the instructor in institutional 
management. This double appointment secures unity, and, through 
full knowledge of both sides of the question, prevents arbitrary 
enactments. 

Further, the dormitory should be first of all a suitable residence for 
the student, where as far as possible privacy and personal ownership 
should be assured. The room having once been rented to the occu- 
pant, the question of invasion by persons not authorized and perhaps 
not desired is a serious one. Therefore practice in household arts 



^9io] Administration of the Dormitory 487 

or inspection of the room by members of a class may be unwelcome. 
If so the enforcement of the practice is a delicate question. No mat- 
ter how tactful and discreet the practicing students may be, there is 
room for PO^^ibk comment which the individual may deprecate or 
even dread. While this matter may be fairly well managed with a 
small group m a small dormitory, the difficulties increase with the 
size m the family and the number for whom practice must be afforded 
It is probable that few colleges will permit this form of observation 
and practice. The general apprenticeship which affords such an 
opportunity because service is paid for will undoubtedly take the 
place of the general practice in school or college houses of residence. 

Ideals in the Administration of the College Dormitory. 

Marion Lincoln Chamberlain. 

Dean of Women, Rhode Island College. 

We all have ideals of what a college dormitory should be and some 
of us have been so fortunate as to preside over the erection of new 
bui dmgs and to see our ideals become concrete and alas! notaltogether 
faultless realities. But we Americans are already outgrowing the 
fetish worship of the 'up-to-date' and are coming to reahze the value 
o that picturesqueness which time and the wealth of association 
alone can give. 

The young women at present under my charge find themselves in 
a bmldmg twenty years old, with the outward charm of an old French 
chateau and with not a few of its inconveniences. Their social life 
centers m a great hall going up through two stories with a gallerv 
around and light from above, a distinctly dignified and beautiful 
apartment. Here are piano, couch, lounging chairs, etc.,and pictures 
as many as can be hung without crowding. Such an apartment is 
Ideal for any dormitory. An open fireplace, where a fire is kept when- 
ever the weather permits, is a necessity, the gallery appeals to the 
romantic age and the pictures have marked effect. 

Many dormitories present a choice between a single separate room 
and rooms shared or rooms in suites, where each girl has a separate 
bedroom and a share of a common study. Each student should care 
for her own room. Here is her first chance to practice the apphca- 
tion of her lectures in hygiene, euthenics, and household management 



488 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

When the room which in the beginning of the year was furnished with 
a Japanese parasol suspended from the ceiling, from which hung fifty- 
nine small parasols, all in constant double revolution, with each win- 
dow defiled by an abomination of tinkling glass, the walls completely 
obscured by multitudinous and slovenly posters, a hammock swung 
full across the entrance door, and a couch swarming with pillows, 
when this room gradually emerges as a restrained and comfortable 
apartment, then we feel that the seed is taking root. 

At some schools the general work of the dormitory is done by stu- 
dents who thus earn their expenses. The organization and over- 
sight of these student janitors is no light matter. As far as possible 
they should be drawn from students of Home Economics, and the 
aim should be to train them to regard this work from the laboratory 
viewpoint. Each one should have her ow^ field and her own ample 
equipment ; then the general labor-saving devices, such as the vacuum 
cleaner, etc., must be used with careful cooperation. These girls 
should acquire a sense of the necessary continuity of effort, should 
learn that the point is less to make clean than to keep clean, should 
really know cleanness when they see it, and should be able to attain 
it by the best modern methods. They should realize the dignity 
and justification of labor, and they ought to acquire a real mastery 
over their environment. 

Dormitory life stands to most of the inmates as their first experience 
in community living. The home conditions from which students 
come are various and go far towards explaining their outlook on life. 
A friend in charge of a small dormitory allows me to use the following 
results of an investigation of the students under her charge: Parents 
living together, the mother not a wage earner, the student is the only 
child, ID per cent; one parent dead, 30 per cent; parents separated, 
20 per cent; father living but the mother supports the family, 20 per 
cent; normal homes, i.e., the parents living together, the father 
supports the family, the student has sister or brother, 20 per cent. 

The "only child," the headstrong and impulsive girl whose only 
knowledge of a mother is a step-mother from whom she is deeply 
estranged, the girl who scorns her father and is ashamed of her home, 
or the girl who has earned her own living since she was fifteen and 
is selfish and suspicious, to each of these the dormitory, with its equi- 
table and orderly life, must speak in her own language. If her life 
heretofore has been without natural guidance and control, here she 
comes under just and patient rule typical of the justice and protection 



iQio] Administration of the Dormitory 489 

which the state exercises over each of us. If she has come up selfish, 
overbearing, and self-centered, here in a community of her equals she 
realizes her debt to society and the joy of paying it. Where the work 
of the dormitory is done by student help it is easier to train the other 
students to be just and thoughtful than it is where they depend on 
paid servants. The student thinks twice before imposing on a class- 
mate who is her superior in all but worldly riches, and she is brought 
sharply to time for making unnecessary work. 

While life in common rubs off corners, and develops cooperation and 
companionship, forbearance, and the art of living together, its most 
important function is to awaken the student to the sense of her own 
inner life, so that she will develop her own personality, to teach her 
self-control and self-reliance. It is told of Lady Dilke, the original of 
Dorothea in Middlemarch, that when she was living as a poor young stu- 
dent in London, she and a friend were obliged to share a room. By mu- 
tual consent they drew a chalk line across the floor from the middle of 
the entrance door and neither one infringed on the other's privacy. 
Many American girls need a touch of this spirit. One girl, who con- 
fessed that at home she took her naps on the dining table rather than 
go into another room and be alone, after three years at school, during 
which she had gone through the stages of room-mate and study shared 
with another, at last came of her own accord and asked for an entirely 
separate room, saying that she thought she could study and attend 
to her work better if she were by herself and that she was willing to 
forego her share of a study in order that she might be alone — thus 
showing that she had attained her spiritual majority. Twins who 
have always roomed together often decide after six months at college 
that each one would prefer to have her own bedroom. 

I consider a separate bedroom an absolute necessity for the best 
results; studies are better shared and entertainiEg is best done in 
common. 

In a co-educational institution the question of entertaining becomes 
a crucial one and it seems only fair to both the young men and the 
young women that the latter should be reasonably encouraged to play 
the role of hostesses, a role they dearly love and through which much 
valuable training can be given. The following is a reasonable regime : 
On four or five evenings of the week regular study hours are kept and 
quiet is maintained. On one or two evenings visits may be paid, 
entertainments given and callers may be received in the studies and 
the common room. The study doors must, of course, be open and 



490 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

the young women are encouraged to club together in their social 
enterprises. The degree of conventionality to be sought in their 
social Hfe is a nice question and must follow somewhat the tone of 
the community in which the college stands if the students are to 
escape unjust criticism. But the standards should be based on 
courtesy, fairness, and frank recognition of truth rather than on 
outworn conventions. Above all else the tone should be democratic, 
social equality being the keynote of the college life. I think that girls 
are natural democrats and if they are well handled through their 
sports and their home Hfe in college they may be given a very strong 
bent in the right direction. 



Dormitory Life for College Women.^ 
Marion Talbot, Ll.D. 

Professor and Dean of Women in the University of Chicago. 

The usual conception of the college dormitory is so mechanical and 
its administration so frequently thought to be a matter of rules and 
restrictions that it is small wonder if, when a new woman student is 
asked if she intends to live in a university hall, she replies, "Oh, no, 
I shouldn't think of living in the dormitory. I have had enough of 
discipline and herds of women, and must live with greater regard to 
my own personal needs." 

The problem of the dormitory contains many more features touch- 
ing on the inner life of students than the architect, the financier, or 
even the administrator ordinarily recognizes. The very use of the 
term "dormitory" shows how little conception college authorities 
have of the real function of a building in which the student is to 
receive some of the most profound and lasting impressions of her 
whole college life. It may be for sleep, it may be for shelter, but it 
has many other needs to meet, and it should be adapted to those other 
needs also, and the activities which go on in it should be such as will 
enrich the nature and develop the character of those who live within 
its walls, as well as correlate the discipline of the class-room with the 
demands of life. The framework of the body is of importance only 
as it serves for the expression of the spirit that occupies it. 

* The original paper was written for the Journal of the Religious Education 
Association, .'\pril, 1909. 



19 lo] Dormitory Life for College Women ■ 491 

For the greater part of four years the college hall furnishes :o the 
woman student nearly all that she has of home life. These college 
years are precious years in a woman's life. Quite as much as previous 
years, they serve to establish standards of conduct, of principle of 
social efficiency, of appreciation, of discrimination, of moral power 
and, because the family and the home are the most effective agents 
in these forms of education, it is essential that the college hall in which 
the woman student spends a large part of her time, should be organized 
as much as possible like the family and the home. 

Side by side with the present-day questionings concerning the 
effects of modern conditions on the home and the family there is a 
deepening realization that the fundamental principles of these insti 
tutions are essential for the well-being of the individual and of society 
and that their permanence will depend very largely on the position 
of women and the attitude of women toward them. For the sake 
then, of the home and the family, those features of social and domestic 
activity which characterize institutional life must be reduced to a 
minimum in the college residence, even though it may be impossible 
to ehminate them all. The student during these college years should 
be kept under influences which will later make her shrink from those 
aspects of organized living which involve the sacrifice of the real 
functions of the home. The boarding-house and the hotel the 
rented furnished house, and the yearly moving do not furnish proper 
means of expression for those principles which characterize the family 
and the college woman must learn through her own experience to 
place a right value on them. 

Before outlining the ways in which the methods and ideals of the 
home can be worked out in the college hall, I would say a word as to 
the human material to be dealt with. It is a body of eager, teachable 
well-meamng, responsive women, no longer girls, entering with 
enthusiasm upon a great new experience, ready to make the most 
of their opportunities and characterized by those qualities of intelli- 
gence, adaptabffity and alertness which distinguish the American 
woman. In these respects there is no difference between those who 
come to the college from the East, the Middle West or the Pacific 
Slope. Everywhere, of course, there are occasional exceptions the 
giddy, the flirtatious, the vulgar, but they are so rare and unimportant 
that they need not be considered as a class. Their omission from con- 
sideration as a factor in the problem leads to their disappearance 
Any system, social, domestic, or educational, in the college which is 



492 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

based on their needs or on the assumption that they exist in consider- 
able numbers is bound to be a failure, not only for others, but for 
them. A system which will permit of individual treatment and 
the speedy elimination of the obviously unfit and misplaced is the 
only proper system. 

The first aspect of the family which should characterize the res'dence 
hall is corporate life. It should, as Professor Tufts says of the family, 
"afford an opportunity for training in those qualities of disposition 
and character which are essential to citizenship." Mr. Flexner's 
idea of the failure of the college to train a boy to be a member of an 
organized order with obligations and privileges is quite to the point 
here. The college hall is not at its best when, to paraphrase his words, 
it is "a mere mosaic of sharply accentuated personal units." The 
organization of the group living in the hall should be such, then, as to 
bring all into relation with all and to have all realize the privileges 
and obligations which must be recognized if the life is to bring ade- 
quate results. I do not mean by this so-called "student govern- 
ment." The term "government" seems to me to have no more place 
in such a group than it does in a well-organized family. There is no 
question there of government in all the countless. details which make 
up the sum of the daily life. It is cooperation, mutual understanding, 
sympathy, generosity and thoughtfulness. In the crisis, the sorrow, 
and the problem, the greater experience and wisdom of the parents 
are drawn upon, and likewise in the college home there must be some 
authority or permanent directive power ready to act in emergencies 
and to guide the complex group. For complex it must and indeed 
should be, and there should never be any attempt to grade or classify 
students in assigning them to college homes. Older and younger, 
grave and gay, cultured and crude, experienced and immature, 
gathered in one group mutually give and take in ways which react 
favorably for all if the right spirit prevails. 

The means by which this corporate life may be developed and 
moral results secured from it are very simple, and again are such as 
characterize successful family life. One of the pleasantest and most 
effective is the exercise of hospitality. Here the whole household may 
be brought together, each member with a share in the preliminary 
preparations, each jointly responsible as hostess, and the occasion may 
be so planned as to afford opportunity for the use of individual gifts 
in music, acting, decoration, business arrangements, or social grace, 
and, what is still more important, to serve as a means of education 



19 1 o] Dormitory Life for College Women 



493 



in these directions for members of the group who have had little exper- 
ience or training. Intra-hall social gatherings, large and small, also 
serve to bring out strong feelings of mutual interest and obligation. 

The architectural features and domestic arrangements may be made 
to contribute largely to the success of this phase of education. Con- 
venient, attractive rooms for social purposes, and a flexible system in 
the housekeeping department are essential. For the birthday party, 
the entertaining of a mother or visiting friend, or the celebration of 
some event of interest to a small group, opportunities for special 
luncheons, dinners or teas should be provided, and equipment for 
light cooking more convenient and more safe than the chafing dish 
may be the means not only of great enjoyment and comfort, but of 
real and valuable training. 

In connection with small social and hospitable ventures of this kind 
there is opportunity for the discussion not only of the unimportant 
conventionalities, such as forms of invitation and proper methods of 
receiving guests, but of the more important questions of the chaper- 
onage necessary when the gatherings include both young men and 
young women, the occasions on which supervision is desirable and the 
ways in which they may meet with assured freedom because of the 
certainty of adequate protection under a control which is largely the 
expression of the public opinion of the group. Men and women may 
thus have opportunities to meet simply, even frequently, without 
the feeling of sex-consciousness which is often aroused solely because 
of arbitrary prohibitions. 

^ Another way in which the moral power which comes from coopera- 
tion in a common interest may be secured is through the discussion 
and formulation of house customs, and the determination of such 
details as the hours during which quiet should be maintained or the 
way in which Sunday should be observed. Responsibility for the 
order and attractiveness of the social rooms, for needed repairs and 
for the maintenance of a reading-room may be properly shared by the 
group. Conferences in regard to the renovation of furniture or decor- 
ations may serve a useful purpose, while an organized movement to 
secure needed improvements or additions to the furnishings, such as 
vases, lamps, or books, may be encouraged occasionally for the in- 
fluence it fosters. 

But the family does not fulfill its sole function when it trains its 
members to contribute to the efficiency of a larger group. There 
must always be a place in the family for the development of individual 



494 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

powers. So too, with the college hall. Not only should it serve to 
make each individual a more efficient part of a larger whole, but it 
should afford an opportunity for the growth of those moral attributes 
which should mark human relations whenever one individual comes 
in contact with another. Persons living in isolated independence, a 
condition which theoretically has many attractions, lose the chance 
to gain breadth of view, tolerance of opinion, kindliness and generosity 
in act and in word, afforded by residence with others. It is a familiar 
fact that illness or sorrow or perplexity always arouse a spontaneous 
and unlimited spirit of helpfulness, and opportunities for its expression 
occur frequently and under many guises in a large household of 
women. Looked at from another point of view, the intimacy of this 
corporate life might be held to be a disadvantage as tending to curiosity, 
impertinent comment or gossip, but the diversity of occupation and 
interest of a mixed student body renders this result highly improbable. 

In a residence hall directed by an educational institution, physical 
and aesthetic conditions may be effectively controlled, and it is not 
too much to claim that their ethical value is so great as to justify 
their careful consideration by competent authorities. 

It might be inferred from what has been said that the argument 
from economy has no place in this statement of the function which 
a college home should perform. Quite the contrary! While it is 
true that such educational returns cannot be secured without cost, 
there is real economy in the investment, or, to put the statement 
another way, there is great waste in failing to make the investment. 
This investment means meeting the expense of the architectural, 
domestic and social devices which make practicable on the impersonal 
side all the conditions suggested, and the provision of wise and sympa- 
thetic leadership, by which the discipline gained in the class room, 
the library and the laboratory may be made a part of the daily living 
of every individual. 

Not to make it means the failure to provide just the opportunity 
to acquire that power of expression, that facility in social intercourse, 
that ability to meet situations of an unusual and unexpected character, 
that dignity and poise, which insure that the intellectual and scholarly 
results of the academic experience will be made available in full 
measure. 

Whether these influences will be com])lelely realized or not will 
depend largely on whether the intellectual interests which are the 
basis for this collective life are given opportunity to contribute to 



iQio] Dormitory Life for College Women 495 

the life of the student. If in any institution the women have less 
than full recognition in the intellectual privileges, if there are not 
women in faculty and administrative positions of high rank, if the 
attitude either of the faculty or of men students towards the intellectual 
life of the women is patronizing instead of friendly, neither college 
hall nor any other device can make good the damage so wrought. 
Freedom in the generous restraint of family Hfe can contribute to 
intellectual self-respect, but it can never be a substitute for the self- 
control and dignity growing out of the realization on the part of the 
individual that she shares with full and equal freedom in the intel- 
lectual wealth of the group of which she is for the time a member. 

It is to be hoped that what has been said justifies these suggestions 
in the presence of this particular body. Just as in the daily life of 
the home, the principles not only of right living but of righteous living 
must be translated into terms of habit, so in the college substitute 
for the home there must be large opportunity for fine appreciation of 
the rights of others, delicate feeling for the needs of others, and an 
ever-widening sympathy, not only with the truths of nature and the 
facts of history, but with the frailties and the aspirations of human 
nature. It is from the natural relationships and problems of simple 
every-day life that may be secured the fine democracy and social 
power demanded of the educated women of to-day. 



EDUCATION FOR ADMINISTRATIVE WORK. 
Qualifications and Training of the Head of a College Dormitory. 

Lydia Southard. 

House Director Whittier Hall, Teachers College. 

In the editorial of a recent magazine it was pointed out that a cynic 
does not become an expert, because to possess the authority of an 
expert a man must share in the movement of life. In no other way 
can he understand that movement. 

Applying this general truth, a woman who is a cynic should never 
find her way to the headship of a college dormitory. One of the first 
requirements for the person who is to guide and direct others is a broad, 
deep sympathy, not sympathy of an emotional type, but the unfail- 
ing ability to see a situation through another's eyes, and to make 
him feel that his view of the case is not despised, even though the 
decision may go against him. 

This. requires, of course, the fundamental ability to see two sides 
of every question, and it means experience. This is not necessarily 
technical experience, nor is it always of the sort which makes the 
best showing on the application blank of an agency. It is a past 
record of sincere and straightforward dealing with every situation 
that one's personal Hfe has brought. It is knowledge of struggle, of 
defeat as well as triumph, of discouragement, of waiting and of hard 
work. 

But experience, to be complete, requires the brighter side also. 
We should know how others feel in gayer mood. We should be able 
to throw aside dull care on occasion and command enjoyment. Within 
the limits of refinement, the broader that field of enjoyment, the more 
useful we shall be n our relations to other people. 

We are sometimes asked if the head of a college dormitory should 
be a college graduate. My own feeling is that this is not a necessity, 
but that it is very desirable. The fully equpped woman, fitted for 
her position by natural gifts, as well as by long and varied training, 
will surely find recognition in time. The college degree is an intro- 

496 



igio] The Head of a College Dormitory ■ 497 

duction in academic circles, and in those places which are slow to 
receive domestic administration on its modern professional basis 
the possession of a degree may hasten the coming of that unquestioned 
position in the community which the head of the dormitory has a 
right to expect. Other things being equal, the degree sets a stamp 
upon her standards and her tastes and shows her to be already in 
touch with that life whose social and business relations, at least, she 
should henceforth represent. The head of a college dormitory has 
no more right to be a mere superintendent of servants than a college 
president has to be a recluse and an ascetic. 

Should the head of a college dormitory have had student experience 
in this kind of work? Shining examples of success without this are 
undoubtedly on record, but as a rule the woman who enters dormitory 
work without having somewhere, sometime, been in close contact with 
numbers of other women subject to the rules which govern educa- 
tional institutions, is at a disadvantage. How can she properly 
formulate regulations unless she knows what it would mean to keep 
them? How can she be thought by the students under her care to 
understand their needs, unless she can quote similar experience? 

Another requirerhent is whole-hearted enthusiasm. A modern 
English writer has said that "To hurry in Egypt is just as wrong as 
to fall asleep in Wall Street, or to be found in a Greek theater reading 
How to Make a Fortune with a Capital of Fifty Pounds. " To 
enter dormitory work with divided heart and preoccupied mind is 
worse than any of these things. 

One occasionally finds a dormitory in which the work is divided 
into several coordinate departments, the head of each being answer- 
able directly to a president or dean. This however, is an unusual 
arrangement, and the woman who would devote herself to the manage- 
ment of dormitories should be prepared to direct all phases of the 
work. She must understand the food question from the point of 
view of nutrition, economy, attractiveness. She must be a student 
of dining-room and kitchen service, and incidentally, a student of 
the psychology of those who eat and of those who serve. 

Some of us believe that in the near future most colleges will own 
and direct their own laundries, and that this natural field for women, 
which is fast becoming thoroughly scientific, will attract some of the 
best trained minds. Long steps in this direction are already being 
taken, and the sooner our heads of dormitories come to know the latest 
ideas regarding this exceedingly important work the sooner will they 



498 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

wish to help incorporate it in their own institutions. I hope the time 
will soon come when all who are studying for dormitory supervision 
will elect courses in institutional laundry work. 

The subject of buying is immense and inspiring. When we con- 
sider that the simple furnishings of a college dormitory affect the 
health and happiness of hundreds, as college generations come and go ; 
that the conditions under which these articles were made afifect the 
well-being of thousands; that the selection and purchase of these 
furnishings mean either waste or economy for the institution; then 
the subject of buying becomes one of profound interest. No class 
room can supply all that is needed. The desultory visiting of stores 
and factories is not enough. Theory and practice should go hand in 
hand. Add to this visits to various institutions and consultation 
with the proper authorities. The experience which they offer for 
the common good is often valuable. 

The special training for the head of a college dormitory thus em- 
braces every department of domestic science. It should consist of 
the very best that reference books and experienced teachers can pro- 
vide. I cannot emphasize too strongly, however, the fact that even 
this is not enough. Laboratory work is excellent, but it must be 
reinforced by field work. This should be of two kinds. The trained 
woman should not only know how to do the humblest task with her 
own hands, but she should have opportunity to test herself in this, 
under normal conditions. If she does not know how much time and 
effort are required to perform, in their natural setting, the ordinary 
domestic duties of an institution, she is not well prepared to organize 
her future household with any degree of fairness. She should also 
have practice in planning and directing the work of employees. 

Two years of training in which theory and practice are wisely 
combined is none too much to devote to the preparation for so impor- 
tant a work. Even then a woman is wise to accept an assistant's 
position for a time, until she becomes throughly adjusted to the new 
duties. 

It is perfectly true that circumstances sometimes alter cases, and 
that personalities frequently alter them even more. However, after 
seven years of the closest observation of these positions, and of the 
manifold demands made upon the women who fill these i)osts, I am 
more and more convinced that to shorten the period of training is usu- 
ally only to make the work more difficult, if not less satisfactory, later 
on. 



19 lo] Essentials in Training the Dietitian 



499 



We are living in an age of restless protest against waiting of any 
kind. When we emerge from the training school we wish large 
salaries at once. The high cost of living is partly responsible for 
this, but another factor in the case is our ignorance of the pitfalls 
which await the inexperienced. If, when we leave the technical 
school, we could foresee these we would, I think, be more willing to 
walk with a guide for a time, even though the pay is proportionally 
less. 

I believe that deliberation and thoroughness should be urged upon 
every woman who can possibly so direct her life, and that she should 
approach the care of a dormitory with thoughtful modesty. I ask 
you if hers is not, indeed, an all-round life. The duties and the privi- 
leges of it are worthy of the highest type of womanhood, plus the most 
liberal education that she can possibly obtain. Hostess, chaperon, 
friend of student and of employee, general administrator, dietitian, 
sanitary expert, buyer, all of these she may and perhaps must be, even 
within the limits of the same institution. An overburdened life, you 
say? No, a splendidly full life, a nobly stimulating life, a life which 
leaves little time for self-interest. The woman whose mind is set 
upon personal advancement should seek other lines. Let us say with 
Mrs. Browning in Auora Leigh: " Get leave to work in this world, 'tis 
the best you get at all;" and again, with another writer: "We enjoy 
ourselves only in our work, our doing; and our best doing is our best 
enjoyment." 



Essentials in the Training of the Dietitian. 
Florence R. Corbett. 

Teachers College. 

The requirements in training the institutional dietitian must be 
determined largely through the needs to be met by her in the institu- 
tion. These must be interpreted by the management of the institu- 
tion, and modified by reports of institutional experience by women 
of Household Economics training, who are thus competent to judge 
whether their training has adequately fitted them for the work required 
in this field. 

The needs of the average institution are summarized briefly in a 
recent paper on institution management, by Miss Patten, of the 



500 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

Boston Young Women's Christian Association Home, and I take the 
liberty of quoting them, slightly adapted: (i) A liberal education 
for the quahty it gives the woman herself and through her to others; 
(2) understanding of and sympathy with those among whom she 
works; (3) executive ability; (4) expert training in household manage- 
ment; and (5) business knowledge. 

Unquestionably the liberal education, the equivalent of college 
work at least, supplies the most secure foundation on which to elab- 
orate the necessary technical training, and affords the desirable back- 
ground, represented by the trained mind. The technical training 
must be founded in pure science and to such work must be brought 
the trained mind. 

The first requirement, a liberal education, should insure the second, 
that of "understanding of and sympathy with those among whom 
she works" through arousing her interest in social studies; and these 
two requirements should insure the factor so essential to successful 
institution work, — that of a comfortable, reliable personality. 

The third requirement, that of executive ability, cannot be produced 
by any system of any school so far known, but may be developed by 
opportunities for practical work, provided there is a degree of such 
ability native to the student. Hence the importance of carefully 
selected and directed practical work in connection with training, and 
hence also, the futility of encouraging students with no native execu- 
tive talent, to train for such positions as institution dietitians; their 
disappointment in their profession will only be equaled by their 
employer's disappointment in them as executive heads of departments. 

The fourth requirement, expert training, must have its foundation 
in the exact and natural sciences, and in the group of studies repre- 
sented by the subjects economics, social science, psychology, and 
education. These subjects may be pursued in the college and be 
followed in the technical school by the development of their applica- 
tion to the institution field, together with practice work in condi- 
tions approximating the institution field; or, what seems an economy 
of time to the mature student who has definitely chosen the institu- 
tion as the field of her future work, the pursuit of groups of fundamen- 
tal courses may run nearly parallel with the group of ai^plicd courses, 
all within the college period. This is now done in some colleges. 

Mention must also be made of a third method, which has been 
followed by some technical schools — that of accepting pupils with 
little or no foundation knowledge in the groups of studies mentioned, 



iQio] Essentials in Training the Dietitian 501 

and attempting to make good this deficiency at the time of giving the 
technical training, all in the space of two years or less. The result 
in the graduate of such a school is an immature, untrained mind, 
unsuited to the demands of institutional life and work. Longer and 
thorough training is to be desired not alone for proficiency in technique, 
but also for the maturing of the student's mind, the formation of 
standards and the development of judgment. 

There is given below a classification of the groups of courses funda- 
mental to technical training of the dietitian, and with each group the 
corresponding group of technical courses — representing the direct 
application of the fundamental courses. (It is impossible here to 
attempt prescribing the exact amount of work which should be done 
in each subject, and this can, I believe, best be delegated to a com- 
mittee on curriculum. I should say, however, that it seems wise to 
class all of the work here outlined as required work, and to expect a 
certain amount of elective work on the cultural side.) 

PREVAILING COURSES FOR THE TRAINING OF THE DIETITIAN. 

FUNDAMENTAL COURSES. APPLIED COURSES. 

Group I. 

General inorganic chemistry Food production and manufacture 

Organic chemistry Household chemistry 

Analytical chemistry Fuels 

Physical chemistry Physiological chemistry 

Nutrition 

Food economics 

Dietetics 

Institutional dietaries 

Marketing 

Textiles 

Laundering 

Sanitation 

Housewifery 

Food preparation 

Group II. 

Biology, bacteriology Food production and manufacture 

Natural history Physiological chemistry 

Physiology Nutrition 

Food economics 

Dietetics 



502 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

FUNDAMENTAL COURSES. APPLIED COURSES. 

Sanitation 

Laundering 

Housewifery 

Food preparation 

Hygiene 

Home nursing 

Emergency nursing 

Group III. 

Mathematics Principles of accounts 

Records 
Estimates 
Reports 
General business technique 

Group IV. 

Economics Buying 

Social science Business management 

Psychology Food preparation and service 

Education Selection of employees 

Organization of service 

The foregoing classification covers the general scheme of standard 
courses of study in our technical schools at the present moment. 
But there is criticism of it, both from institutions and from graduate 
dietitians, as to the meager practical work afforded in food selection, 
marketing and buying in general, ordering of meals, preparation of 
food, and the organization and direction of service. 

The character of the criticism would indicate not insufiicient instruc- 
tion in the fundamental groups, nor want of application of these prin- 
ciples in the laboratory and field work offered by the school, but an 
insufficient amount of laboratory and field work, particularly of that 
sort affording conditions approximate to those found in the institu- 
tion. Over and over again has the graduate worker demonstrated 
her ability to analyze and criticise conditions in her field of work, 
and at the same time demonstrated her want of ability to maintain 
in harmonious and efficient movement the complicated machinery of 
the dietary department. This is undoubtedly due to the emphasis 
given by the school to the development of the student attitude of mind 
and method in all work, at the expense of the acquisition of skill through 
practice work. The development of the student method of work is 
admittedly a necessary step in her preparation for useful work, but 



^9^°] Essentials in Training the Dietitian 503 

it should be balanced by a large amount of practice in handling the 
problems of routine and emergency character peculiar to the institu- 
tional dietary field. She would then have so assimilated the funda- 
mental principles demonstrated in the class room, as to be no longer 
conscious of them. The good habits of work formed in well directed, 
plentiful practice would have become her tools, and she would then 
proceed with confidence and ease in the handling of her routine and 
emergency problems. When she has reached this stage of efiiciency 
and not until then, will she be truly useful to the institution, "worthy 
of her hire" and of the professional recognition she desires. 

In this connection one is reminded of the critical inquiry often made, 
regarding the scope of dietitians' work, "Why should she concern 
herself with the practical handling of the work, the housekeeping 
aspect? Why concern herself about fuel, employees, furnishings, 
uniforms? Does not her training prepare her to criticise and advise 
in regard to diet, and is that not enough for the institution to expect 
of her?" The answer to such queries comes through years of exper- 
ience in such work. Institution management more and more recog- 
nizes that permanent results are seldom achieved, indeed results of 
any sort are rarely attained, through mere criticism and advice. The 
regulation of dietaries, the improvement of food preparation and 
service, the reduction of waste— all are brought about through the 
intelligent control of contributive conditions— the immediate direction 
of employees and their recognition of the authority of the dietitian. 
She may "advise" or "recommend" that the refrigerators be cleaned 
regularly, but if she has not the authority to require this done, how 
can she be responsible if through another's neglect, the refrigerators 
are not cleaned, and food is spoiled and wasted in consequence? In 
the minds of many she will still be responsible, and her reputation 
IS thus at the mercy of those who can not or will not cooperate with 
her. Without authority in her own department she cannot secure 
results which represent her fairly; and with authority inevitably 
comes responsibihty. Thus we have the dietitian who actually con- 
trols the food service of her institution also controlling the employees 
of that department— supervising their deportment and uniforming, 
regulating their duties in the handling of food and equipment, and 
thus organizing her entire department for efficiency in food service. 
Where she is hindered in the exercise of this authority, or where 
she is incapable of exercising it wisely, imperfection will result in the 
character of food service. When deprived of authority, she is help- 
less to secure results, and without results her position is not justified. 



504 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

Something should be said of the precise nature of the practical work 
to be included in the training of the dietitian. Much of that pre- 
viously mentioned (marketing, administrative work, etc.) can be 
obtained only in the actual field of the institution, where as a pupil 
dietitian she may develop and test her own strength in the capacity 
of assistant to an experienced dietitian. These opportunities now 
occur in many hospitals and college dormitories. At the present 
time, such work is taken at the option of the student upon the com- 
pletion of her school work, and for it she receives recognition from the 
hospital, but not from the school. It would seem wiser if the school 
would recognize such practical experience as extension work in a field 
not provided by the school, preferably withholding its diploma until 
this field work is completed. The college offering domestic science 
courses and having its own dormitories is iii a position to supply the 
field for practical experience under the control of its own faculty, and 
can give credit for such work toward diploma, certificate or degree. 

In the practical work of food preparation, more experience is 
desirable than it is now customary to give. Graduates generally agree 
that their training on this side has been too small for the acquisition 
of skill. Of the special form of cookery known as "institutional," 
it must be admitted to be practically impossible to duplicate institu- 
tion conditions in a school ''laboratory kitchen," but the college 
dormitory kitchen and lunch room kitchen ofifer opportunities for 
experience under direction. 

It is extremely difl&cult to obtain through courses now offered practi- 
cal experience in marketing and buying. Still, these may point the 
way and afford an outline for future work to be carried on in the 
individual experience of the student. Actual knowledge of the food 
products of the world, and judgment formed by experience in hand- 
ling these, should be part of the equipment of the dietitian for her 
work. 

To those of us familiar with courses of study offered in Household 
Economics, it is apparent that the length of time required in prepara- 
tion for work as a dietitian must inevitably lengthen. This will not 
necessarily take place in the technical schools through additional 
courses, but will be evidenced in college requirements including the 
fundamental courses outlined, and later in the requirement of from 
six months to one year of practice work under supervision. Prob- 
ably six months of this could be taken under school direction and credit 
given accordingly; the second six months might well be taken in a 



19 1 o] Practice Fields for Institution Management 505 

field of different character with maintenance provided. It would be 
safe to suppose the student capable by that time of rendering sufficient 
service to constitute her apprenticeship a mutual benefit to herself 
and the institution. 

I would not close without repeating, and emphasizing if possible, 
what has been brought out several times to-day — the institutional 
field is too important, there is too much at stake in the institution, 
to admit of the employment therein of women not prepared to carry 
full responsibility; the present training afforded is not adequate on 
the side of practical work, nor of sufficient length to permit of the 
development of the average student to the necessary sense of responsi- 
bility in her institutional relations. 

It would seem that important work for this conference would con- 
sist in making a thorough study of these conditions and eventually 
recommending the courses of study and the nature of the special 
training necessary in order to meet the requirements of the institu- 
tion for the dietitian. 



Practice Fields for Students in Institution Management Courses. 
Mary Urie Watson. 

Macdonald InslUiUe, Guelph, Canada. 

It is only a few years since the idea that domestic science teachers 
required special training and practice teaching was recognized and 
provided for. The idea of practice fields for institution management 
is to-day quite new, but will soon be generally accepted. 

The domestic management of large institutions, hospitals, schools, 
dormitories and asylums cannot be conducted in the same way as in 
a single family. So far such management has been solved by capable 
subordinates through their own powers of observation. When oppor- 
tunities offer they are given the chance to prove their capacity. Some 
are plunged into such work and are left to sink or swim, and it is 
wonderful how many do learn to keep their heads above water. 
Very few have special training, and no training school can provide 
practice in actual conditions and prepare for an independent work. 
It is cruel to send a fresh graduate in all ignorance of institution life 
into full responsibility for such work. 



5o6 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

The apprenticeship system is the best and only practical solution. 
It is the same idea as practice teaching in all our normal schools; only 
the field of practice is larger. The students must have opportunity 
to study the field, to make plans for supervising, equipping and run- 
ning such plants and to have their plans and performances discussed 
by a competent critic. 

The essentials for such an apprenticeship system are: First, that 
the authorities and superintendents of such an institution should be 
in entire sympathy with the idea; second, there must be an excep- 
tionally competent housekeeper or matron who has the teaching 
spirit. Difiiculties must be found out and ways to meet them devised. 
The institution housekeeper must be so able to utilize the work of 
apprentices as to make it worth while to have them come. When 
boys spend five or six years in learning a trade, the work they do is 
of value to their masters. Teachers and housekeepers, as well as 
administrators, must do work of value. An apprentice should be 
willing, on graduating from her training courses, to work for her 
living and a small salary in return for the hardest work she can give. 
She should be mature and have good home experience. She should 
have native executive ability and special training in the fundamentals 
of all institution work. 

The Pupil Dietitian. 
Grace E. McCullough. 

Massachusetts General Hospital. 

The outcome of the section for dietitians which was held at the time 
of the annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association 
in Boston, in December, 1909, was the opening of the doors of the 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, to pupil dietitians with a 
view to furthering the subject of hospital dietetics. At that time an 
earnest appeal was made to hospitals, domestic science training schools 
and students. The time and harvest were ready, but the laborers 
were few. 

Miss Florence E. Crapsey, a graduate of Teachers College, was the 
first to apply and was accepted. She completed the course in October 
most satisfactorily and writes of the work as follows: 

The course consists of three months without salary, but with maintenance, the 
time and work of the pupil being directly under the supervision of the resident 



ipio] Preparation for Institution Management 507 

dietitian. Forty-six hours weekly plus ten hours every other Sunday were spent 
on duty. The management of the diet kitchen, insight into the main kitchen, 
daily ward supervision during the serving of meals, the ordering of food stuffs, 
the preparation of formulae for infant feeding, along with other special diets, con- 
stituted the work. 

The training has afforded knowledge of the practical side of a dietitian's work 
along with some theory and new scientific facts; given an insight into the treatment 
of certain diseases caused by errors in diet and the preparation of proper diets; 
fostered the ability to manage adult students; made familiar the routine life 
of an institution; assisted toward the control of the cost of living with the present 
high prices; shown how to cope with the labor problem; given confidence, and 
extended the scientific knowledge gained at college by its application. 

While many smaller hospitals may undoubtedly give certain opportunities, it is 
only in a large one like the Massachusetts General, which is well organized and 
systematized, that one can get full benefit of the time expended. 

A course of lectures was also given before Miss F. M. Farmer's 
Summer School of Domestic Science (19 10) upon institution man- 
agement, with special reference to the dietary department. The 
building and location; the kitchen and its permanent and portable 
equipment; cold storage, and storage space; food, a system for order, 
purchase, care and economy; some phases of the help problem; and 
an outline for a diet kitchen, touching upon a few special diets for 
special diseases, were among the topics discussed. 

Preparation for Institution Management. 
Flora Rose. 

Cornell University. 

So many people are asking what the schools and colleges where 
Home Economics is taught are doing to train women for institution 
management from the personal point of view, with reference to the one 
who is to administer the work, that it does not seem amiss at this time 
to look ahead a little and tell something of the plans which Cornell is 
making for a course in institution management. 

Training for institution management presents a complex problem, 
for it necessitates a range of practical experience built upon a thor- 
oughly scientific foundation. In planning for this work it is our belief 
that a four year college course is none too long to give the systematic, 
all-round training needed as much here as in any other line of work. 
Institution management will, therefore, take rank with other college 



5o8 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

courses. The training will include the same two-year foundation 
of work in biological, physical and social sciences as is required for 
other courses offered under the name of Home Economics. The 
same fundamental food and dietary work will be given as to those who 
expect to be teachers. A way, however, had to be found for offering 
real and practical experience in work along institution lines. Just as a 
medical college must have clinics for the development of its physicians, 
teachers must have experimental schools; therefore, courses in insti- 
tution management must develop in connection with some institution. 

This year the New York Legislature appropriated $154,000 for a 
Home Economics building at Cornell. In planning this building 
there were always in mind the manifold sides to Home Economics 
and the need for giving an opportunity for specialization in various 
lines of activity. Since there was to be a new building, it seemed 
best to take this fact into account at once and to develop the building 
to meet our own particular needs. 

As the plan now stands, the basement, which is to be parterre, will 
contain a cafeteria where as many as 1500 persons may be served. 
This cafeteria will be under the management of a trained woman with 
a place on the Home Economics teaching staff. Under her juris- 
diction students specializing in institution management will gain a 
first hand knowledge of economics, physiology, and psychology of the 
feeding large numbers. 

A small commercial bakery and laundry, also to be used as 'expe- 
rience' laboratories, will complete the basement plans. Besides the 
usual food laboratories, common to all Home Economics departments, 
one floor of the building will be given over to a dormitory accommo- 
dating about thirty students. This will also be used as a working 
laboratory for those students specializing in institution management, 
and it is hoped that many practical dietary experiments may be 
carried out there. It will also be possible for students to obtain 
further experience by observing methods in the larger women's dormi- 
tory of the university, where some three hundred persons are cared for. 

Additional Points Brought Out in the Discussions and in 
Correspondence. 

Standards of Training. — Women say they can get good wages with- 
out training. Why then spend money to learn? It will take time 
to educate both women and institutions to the need of this training. 



iQio] Preparation for Institution Management 509 

On the other hand, the inquiry of ten comes to leading workers, " Can 
you find us a woman who is trained?" Nothing is even said of salary, 
the need is so great. We might begin with shorter training to meet 
the present urgent demand and then develop. The training to-day is 
better than anything we have had before. Some institutions already 
require that a dietitian shall have two years' training. 

All the training and theories of all the schools cannot give a woman 
the ability to " get under a big job" as hotel men say. This is a matter 
of native ability and executive traits. 

In fixing standards for certified public accountants in New York 
it was necessary for the legislature to enact a law which threw out 
of business some men who had signs out. 

As previously noted, it was voted that the American Home Econom- 
ics Association appoint a committee of five to formulate standards 
for training for institution management. 

Apprenticeship. — The length of time ordinarily available for appren- 
ticeship work was felt to be too short, one month often being spent 
under one head and perhaps two months with another. An institu- 
tion also suffers from such apprentice work. Six months at least 
is needed and two years would be better if possible. 

In Canada more and more applications are being received from 
mature women who have already had good experience in household 
affairs ; sisters who have kept house for brothers and are stranded 
when they marry often show remarkable ability. 

Should there be an age limit? Mechanics Institute requires candi- 
dates for lunch room work to be at least twenty-five years old. No 
younger woman could do the work, and she should be thirty for factory 
and school lunch room positions. There are often very trying condi- 
tions, employees being proverbially hard to suit and sometimes dis- 
courteous. 

Is it a matter of the almanac or of tact and temperament, was 
asked. Institutions which are able to offer the best practice field 
for apprentices often cannot afford to take them, while those institu- 
tions which take them to save wages will not teach them well and 
are poor places for apprentices. On the other hand, if an institution 
gives $100 worth of time for $25 worth of work it is a good place for 
apprentices but serious for the institutions. Is it not possible to have 
a few recognized practice institutions of the right kind? 



METHODS OF ORGANIZATION AND CONTROL IN 
INSTITUTIONAL DEPARTMENTS. 

Menus and Meal Systems: A New Plan. 

Annie Dewey, 
Lake Placid Club. 

There is much talk concerning the high cost of Hving, but few 
practical suggestions as to how to lessen this cost and still give the 
comforts and luxuries which to many have become necessities. Much 
lavish expenditure is due to thoughtlessness and early habits of 
extravagance which cultivate needless waste. 

As man grows prosperous his first indulgence, as a rule, is in increased 
variety and expense of food. When he entertains, all parts of the 
the world are taxed for costly viands, and skillful chefs are paid more 
than college presidents. 

The day laborer takes his dinner from a single plate with but one 
knife, fork and spoon, while the guest at a modern banquet uses some 
thirty to fifty articles in china, glass, silver and linen. There is no 
other function common to man which so stamps his ideals and atti- 
tude toward life as the simple act of eating. 

Nature is lavish with all those elements that must meet man's 
largest needs, air, water, fruit, grains, and vegetables, but she i? 
equally sparing with those which it would not be for his benefit to 
use freely. Nitrogen, so essential for both plant and animal life in 
proper quantities, brings heavy penalties when used too lavishly, 
and so "men dig their graves with their own knives and forks," not 
realizing that it is a surplus of nitrogenous food, the most expensive 
of all, viz. the animal proteids, which is directly the cause of very 
many of our modern diseases, in some form of auto-intoxication, 
Mrs. Richards says: "Public men are dying, not of overwork, but 
of their dinners." 

The modern problem of feeding large numbers has resolved itself 
into a choice of meal systems known as the European or a la carte, 
table d'h6te, American, and various combinations of these three. 



510 



19 1 o] Menus and Meal Systems 511 

In hotels and restaurants, where many tastes must be met, custom 
has estabhshed a long menu with a bewildering choice of expensive 
nitrogenous foods, the most costly the market affords. A recent 
study of typical Usts shows in one case as high as 541 distinct articles 
served to order at a single meal, 379 of these being either meat or fish 
in some form. This is supposed to be the demand of the better class 
traveUng pubHc. In many such places a duplicate staflf with sep- 
arate chef comes on for night duty and meals are served at all hours. 
Expenses are enormous and the pubHc must pay in proportion. 
Such food soon acquires a money flavor from its costly price. Sim- 
phcity is naturally promoted but there is an unfortunate tendency to 
shut out vegetables. A man often makes a meal on porter-house 
steak, reversing the relative proportions of protein and carbohy- 
drates required for the best nutrition. The limitations of table d'hote 
servdce seldom give sufficient choice to meet individual needs and 
peculiarities of diet. Where followed regularly, the special orders 
required are numerous. "To eat a table d'hote dinner is Hke landing 
a fish which has been hooked and played by some one else." 

Children brought up in American plan hotels and allowed to choose 
freely from a varied, menu, soon acquire the habit of extravagance 
and mix many kinds of food, some requiring a long and some a short 
time for digestion, and are especially prone to overeat in meats and 
sweets. The seven-year old daughter of a college professor was seen 
to have five desserts before her which she nibbled, tasted and wasted, 
the only comment of her mother being ''Why, Margaret!" 

A young man ordered one morning for breakfast two services each 
of chops, steak and broiled chicken and then sent for a third order of 
the chicken. 

During the last decade, while the cost of hving has been steadily 
advancing, hotels and restaurants by the hundreds have changed from 
American to a la carte system, being forced to it by the growing 
waste and extravagance. One manager fixed a date on which this 
change would go into effect and noted carefully the result with one 
man who usually had specially hearty breakfasts which at a la carte 
prices would average to cost over $2 each. His first order on the day 
named was a pot of coffee and two boiled eggs. He drank one cup 
of coffee, ate one egg and then asked the waiter to save the rest for 
his wufe, who would be down later. 

^ A growing number of people take regularly only a continental or 
light breakfast. Others have learned that meat not more than once 



512 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

a day, especially in warm weather, is far more healthful. It is cer- 
tainly unfair that these persons should be taxed for the waste repre- 
sented by the young man who wished seven orders of the most expen- 
sive meats at a single meal which would have cost him a la carte over 
$5. It seems as unfair to charge all persons the same price for meals 
as it would be to make all laundry bills uniform, allowing each to 
send as much or as little as he chose. 

Summer resorts are the last stronghold of the American system. 
Europe has never adopted it, a limited table d'hote being the nearest 
approach. 

In the effort to provide college students with satisfactory meals at 
the lowest possible prices. Harvard University has tried some interest- 
ing experiments at Memorial Hall for several years, which have been 
copied at Yale and elsewhere with more or less success. As formerly 
conducted on the American plan, Memorial Hall showed, on a con- 
servative estimate, a waste in meat, fish and eggs amounting to about 
$900 a month or over $8000 for the college year. Men used to boast 
of three, four, and even six large orders of hot roast beef at a single 
meal, three quarters of a ton of raw ribs of beef, costing over $200, 
being required for one meal. Each man ordered as many helpings of 
everything as he pleased. Waiters were liberally tipped and brought 
more plates of food than were ordered, these got cold and were wasted. 
Many ordered more than they cared to eat, so as to select the best. 
The point was that they were not directly paying for it. 

In 1903 the new system was introduced whereby a fixed price was 
charged covering certain essentials or constants for each meal which 
would give sufficient plain nourishment to support health. Bread, 
butter, cereals, soups, most vegetables, tea, coffee, and milk were 
on this list, while cream, eggs, fruit, fish, meat, salads, and desserts 
were paid for by coupons at cost price. These coupons (ahmentary 
canal mileage) were like so many postage stamps. No slips or sign- 
ing of order blanks was required but a checker at the door examined 
and passed each tray. Every man thus had just what he paid for. 
Tips and fees were abolished and waiters were paid increased wages 
for efficiency, based on length of service, the price being raised for 
three successive years for all who were efficient enough to be con- 
tinued in service. 

This plan with some variation was in operation about six years 
when it was announced that the dining association was in debt over 
$100,000 and that Memorial Hall would be closed. It was, however^ 



19 lo] Menus and Meal Systems 513 

reopened with a changed plan, a simple table d'hote meal being served 
at a fixed price and each menu having a list of special dishes which 
could be had on written order at about cost. A fuller separate list 
offered larger choice by "delay of order" cooking. 

The average membership of late has been 800. Were it possible 
to keep 1000 members during the entire year, excellent board could 
be furnished at a low price. There are always certain fixed charges 
which must be paid irrespective of numbers, and 1000 students are 
required to meet this cost. All above this number contribute to 
profit, whereas any shortage adds to the deficit. 

It is usually supposed to be much cheaper to feed large numbers from 
a common kitchen than for families to keep house separately, where, 
as in block after block of city homes, different cooks are paring pota- 
toes and doing about the same things at the same hours for small 
groups. There seems to be some fallacy, however, when we find that 
it is impossible to give students simple meals at $5.50 a week with 
a membership under 1000, especially when no rent, taxes or living 
quarters for servants are required, as in the case of Memorial Hall, 
and when all modern labor-saving devices in equipment are sup- 
plied. The Hall is, however, carrying interest charges on the old 
debt. 

As a matter of fact, when many live together they have, besides 
individual needs, common needs which have to be supplied at common 
expense. Three hundred years ago the water system of New York 
probably consisted of a town pump, whereas the new Ashokan water 
works when completed will cost $300,000,000. New Yorkers to-day 
pay water taxes of $12,000,000 a year. Streets, pavements, sewers, 
police and fire protection have similarly developed. 

Where every expense connected with preparation and serving of 
food must be fairly included, the results are somewhat astonishing. 
Recent records of the Lake Placid Club show that the number of 
guests in August reached 808, the average number for three summer 
months was 504, and for the entire year 167. About 400 employees 
were fed in midsummer and 50 or more in winter. 

Among the common needs, express, freight and teaming for the 
table alone were $5024. Laundry, including not only that of table 
linen and towels (side, silver, dish and cooks') but uniforms of cooks, 
tray boys and waitresses, fuel, ice, light, water, rent, breakage and 
depreciation of china, glass, silver, table linen, cooking utensils and 
other kitchen and dining room furnishings, railway fares, uniforms^ 



514 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

rubber heels and other suppHes, came to $29,968, a per capita daily 
average of 49.8 cents. Wages for the year averaged 42 cents and raw 
food materials $1.13 per guest. The care of rooms cost 10 cents 
each. Meat, fish and eggs (with milk and cream), the expensive 
nitrogenous elements, constituted nearly two-thirds the total cost 
of food. 

In addition, every summer plant is equipped and manned to meet 
the needs of the largest numbers during the few crowded weeks in 
August. An expensive cold storage plant with butcher and assist- 
ant, a grocery store with a special book-keeper and helpers, large re- 
frigerators and coolers with each kitchen, and enormous ice supplies 
are required. 

Comparisons with several other resorts of similar grade confirm 
these figures. In one case the food per cepita was $1.17 and wages 
40 in place of 42 cents, waitresses being paid less and expected to 
make it up in tips and fees. In another, where the menu showed 
greater variety, the food cost $1.25. Curiously enough, not a single 
resort made a per capita allotment for common needs or had any 
system of accounts on which such could be based. 

Studies show that with an average family of six persons, without 
a servant and usually in a rural region where pairt of the food comes 
from the garden, it has been found possible to support health on a 
rather monotonous diet at an average daily cost of 10 cents each 
for raw food materials. 1 A well-to-do family of the same size having 
one servant and some outside help, spends about 16.6 cents for wages 
and 61 cents each for food daily. In prosperous families with two 
domestics, wages run from 20 to 28 cents a day per capita and food 
varies from 60 to 75 cents or more, according to standards of living. 
It is even more difficult to estimate common needs for individual 
homes since separate account is seldom taken of small items which 
melt into general living expenses. Food and wages alone are usually 
estimated in both families and resorts. On this basis the two types 
of families quoted would spend from $140 to $185 a month in the 
home, an average of $162, while the Club figures would make the 
actual cost $279 a month. Adding fixed charges and the care of 
rooms which family wages cover, the total would be $387 a month, if 
all were adults. 

The term calories as the measure of food units is becoming almost 

* U. S. Dcpt. Agr., Office of Experiment Stations, Bui. 221. 



1910] Menus and Meal Systems 515 

as common as the term horsepower in engineering. Science has 
proved conclusively that of the various nutrients needed to keep the 
human machine in the best condition of health, the amount of the 
most expensive foods is the smallest. Dr. C. F. Langworthy of the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture claims that 100 grams protein, with 
fat and carbohydrates enough to make a total energy value of 3000 
calories for adults with active exercise, is a proper standard. This 
standard, it must be remembered, is offered as a guide for homes and 
institution management, and not as an expression of physiological 
requirements. As these quantities should vary in proportion to age, 
height, normal weight, skin surface, amount and kind of exercise, and 
other factors, the question of food becomes peculiarly an individual 
one, and the only fair solution seems to be for each to pay for such 
expensive foods as he needs or insists on having because "they taste 
good." 

Man has long studied a balanced ration for his cattle, his horses 
and his hogs. The application of science to his own needs, an intelli- 
gent effort to preserve the equilibrium of elements with which nature 
has endowed him, would not only create a balance in favor of health 
and eflficiency but increase the bank balance also. 

If the desire for simpler living, so often expressed, were really 
genuine, the people of large means who can live as they choose would 
set the example, as a matter of principle. Men have learned that 
educational forces pull from the top, they do not push from the bottom. 
In Hindu philosophy the man or woman who has the smallest needs 
is considered to be nearest perfection; he becomes the ideal of the 
nation since they place the spiritual plane above the worship of wealth, 
the power of money. There were no saloons or slaughter houses in 
India till the British government estabhshed them. A high caste 
Oriental said of Anglo-Saxon beef -eaters: "Each stomach has become 
a cemetery and every tooth stands like a tombstone." 

Men create tastes and then say they cannot live without them. 
" Simple li\ang is not equivalent to poverty, nor does it mean igno- 
rance. It is the result of the highest education, the moral and spiritual 
training of the soul. It includes sincerity of thought, word and deed 
and has been held in the Orient from time immemorial as the best 
means of attaining to perfect peace and happiness on earth. Simple 
living does not mean a life of retirement, that we must go out of the 
world and live in forests and caves, but it means absolute obedience 
to the laws which govern our physical, mental, moral and spiritual 



5i6 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

being." Simplicity as a modern ideal means comfort without luxury, 
material conveniences which make for efficiency rather than efifemi- 
nacy. A menu based on these ideals, in place of offering everything 
which the market ajBfords to tempt worn out appetites, would aim to 
meet certain essential principles. 

(i) Select foods that are in season. — A German proverb says: 
"To eat asparagus in January is not only to waste money sinfully, 
and to eat a tasteless vegetable; it is to introduce a discord into the 
harmonious scheme of things." We naturally associate seasons of 
the year which certain foods and in so far as we depart from this 
principle the highest enjoyment of such food is dulled. Avoid canned 
fruits and vegetables as much as possible, keeping the fresh ^est 
of their enjoyment for their appropriate season. 

(2) Delicate seasoning: — A famous French chef said: "Monsieur, 
I am very pleased that none of the gentlemen last night touched the 
salt cellar. I could not desire a finer compliment." A cook having 
any self-respect or any respect for his art has a right to feel insulted 
if a guest powders his food with salt and pepper before having tasted 
it. Some one has said : " The cruet stand is a hideous and ever present 
reminder of the wretched state into which the art of cooker}^ has 
fallen in Anglo-Saxon countries. Seasoning is the business of the 
cook and cannot be imparted afterwards." 

(3) Simplicity, with variety from day to day. — This means enough 
reasonable choice at each meal to meet the needs of different ages, 
tastes and digestive powers, seeking the best quality of foods and sani- 
tary and hygienic conditions, and aiming always at the perfection of 
each individual dish, and that it be served with the least possible 
injury from delay. The most artistic and the most wholesome ways 
of preparing foods are usually the simplest. 

(4) Right combinations of foods. — Instinct seemed to guide refined 
taste long before the scientific reasons for certain combinations were 
understood. Custom has so sanctioned these that there has grown 
up an elaborate creed or etiquette of good form for the palate; but 
"the art of cooking, Uke that of dining, should be exempt from the 
caprices of fashion. The principles of both these arts are eternal 
and immutable." 

The preparation and serving of meals naturally divides itself into 
three groups of expenses — raw food materials, wages, and common 
needs or fixed charges. The two latter can usually be fairly estimated 
and will be reasonably stationary in any one year. The bulk of the 



^9io] Menus and Meal Systems ^ly 

food needed, the carbohydrates which make about 60 per cent of the 
total food supply, are also reasonably permanent. Fats are seldom 
reckoned separately, being combined with other foods like bread and 
butter, cereal and cream, and in various kinds of meats. There is left 
only the protein which may vary greatly in price and in amounts con- 
sumed, accordmg to individual needs and tastes. 

Our Club figures for the past year show an average daily cost of food 
per capita as follows: Eggs, 10 cents; fish, 5 cents; meat, 42 cents; 
butter, 10 cents; milk and cream, 17 cents; groceries, 17 cents; and 
fruits and vegetables, 12 cents; making a total of $1.13., It would 
then, be possible to offer a combined American-European meal sys- 
tem at $1.50 a day, which would cover the cost of wages, fixed 
charges and a complete menu except eggs, fish, meat, and specially 
expensive dishes. These could be served to order at nearly cost 
price, which would be from one-third to one-half the usual restaurant 
charges. Cream beyond an individual 4 oz. portion and extra des- 
serts should be on the order list. Porterhouse steaks could be or- 
dered for families at less than separate sirloin or tenderloin portions 
and would be far more appetizing cooked to special order. Food ten 
minutes from the fire to the table is often spoiled. To come promptly 
to meals at a fixed hour not only insures food at its best but also pre- 
serves family life. " To have perfect food one must eat in the kitchen. " 
Those who take meat but once a day could thus easily save $4 or 
$5 a week, while in families of six or eight it would make a difference 
of $25 to $40 a week and every requirement of health would be met. 
An enormous amount of waste would be ehminated if the system were 
widely adopted. Heavy meat eaters would naturally prefer the old 
American plan, but it would be only fair that they should pay a some- 
what higher price if the two plans were in use at the same time, since 
those choosing the fairer system would not be contributing to cover 
the continued waste. 

Table d'hote meals with choice of courses could be served from the 
same simple menu at $2 a day, but it would be distinctly undesirable 
to have more than two plans in operation at one time from one kitchen. 
There would be absolutely no class distinction in serving meals at 
different prices, since one who avoids too much protein is following 
the best teachings of science, proving that his standards of living 
are based on higher ideals of health and efficiency. 

There are many possible applications of the same system. Since 
the fixed price would cover expenses of usual Club standards. 



5i8 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

those wishing more luxuries, such as extra heavy cream, three fresh 
napkins instead of one daily, special pots for tea and coffee, smaller ta- 
bles and a waitress for less than eight, or family style with many service 
plates, would pay such additional sums as would fairly cover these 
extras, above the 50 cents average per capita, without taxing those 
who do not care for them. 

The proposed Lake Placid plan, a combined American-European 
or Ampean system, offers absolute fairness with a minimum of 
annoyance from change and is applicable to all grades of hotels and 
restaurants, since wages and the fixed price may vary with local con- 
ditions as well as a la carte extras. A fair percentage could be 
added as a margin of profit where meals are served on a commercial 
basis, the Club meals being at cooperative cost. 

As carbohydrate foods, the bulk of the food which nature requires, 
would still be on the American plan, purse-strings would act as auto- 
matic levers to control protein balance. Health would be promoted, 
since it is largely a surplus of meats and sweets by which the system 
clogs, as a furnace does with clinkers and ashes. Auto-intoxication by 
poisonous gases is the inevitable result, producing many diseases. 
The human machine is specially dependent on the cleanness and 
clearness with which the fires are fed by food fuel. If the standard of 
human efficiency is to be raised (as it can be without doubt) the 
natural forces of the body must be conserved that the brain may work 
with clearness and precision. 

There is growing interest in the new science of eugenics, which deals 
wdth race improvement through heredity, but there must first be a 
recognized science of right living, seeking race improvement through 
environment. "Human vitality," says Irving Fisher, "depends on 
two primary conditions, heredity and hygiene, or conditions preced- 
ing birth and conditions during life." Euthenics is the term proposed 
for this preliminary science on which eugenics is based. Years of 
careful investigation are required for the latter, but there is immediate 
opportunity through increased scientific knowledge to create better 
conditions of living, which will inevitably create a better race of men 
in the future. Balanced meals would mark one important step in the 
effort to lessen disease and develop more efficient human beings. 
"To that nation which best adjusts its conditions to the demands of 
the future, the leadership of the world belongs." 



iQio] Menus and Meal Systems 519 

SUGGESTED PRICES FOR A COMBINED MEAL SYSTEM. 

Eggs: Raw or cooked, 5 cents each. 

Fish: Single portions, 5-20 cents; fish cakes, 5 cents each. 

Meats: Beef — Roast, 25 cents; steak, 25 cents; sirloin, 30 cents; tenderloin, 35 
cents; porterhouse, 75 cents, $1, $1.50, according to size; casserole and croquette 
steaks, 15-25 cents e.xtra; chipped, hashed, minced on toast, 15 cents; with eggs, 
5 cents each extra; corned beef, beef stew, tongue, 20 cents. Lamb — Roast or 
boiled, 20 cents; hashed, minced, or stewed, 15 cents; with eggs, 5 cents each extra; 
chops, 15 cents each, 2 for 25 cents. Chicken — Roast or boiled, 25 cents; broiled 
half of a i§-lb. chicken, 35 cents; creamed, minced or fricassee, 25 cents. Ham — 
Broiled, frizzled, or fried, 15 cents; eggs, 5 cents each extra. Bacon, 15 cents; 
eggs, 5 cents each extra. Liver and bacon, 15 cents. Sausage, 15 cents. Tripe, 
15 cents. 

Cream: 4-oz. individual pitcher of 25 per cent cream, 5 cents; 35 per cent, 10 
cents; 5-pint pitcher, 25 per cent cream, 10 cents; 35 per cent, 20 cents. 

Desserts: i choice free; each additional, 10 cents extra. 

SAMPLE MENUS FOR ONE DAY. 





Breakfast. 




Blackberries Melons 




Pears Prunes 


Oatmeal 




Farina 


Shredded wheat Force 




Puffed rice Triscuit 


Apetizo 




Corn flakes 



Baked beans Tomato toast 

Baked new potatoes Potatoes hashed in cream 

Toast: Dry, buttered, dipped, milk 

Rolls Corn muffins 

Bread crumb griddle cakes 
Tea Coffee Cereal coffee Cocoa Milk 

TO ORDER. 

Broiled lake trout 15 cents English breakfast bacon 15 cents 

Broiled lamb chops each 15 cents Creamed chicken on toast .... 25 cents 

One small and one large 25 cents Creamed codfish 10 cents 

Ham omelet 20 cents Eggs to order, each 5 cents 

Dinner. 

Consomme vermicelli Green pea soup 

Olives Spiced pear 

Baked bananas 

Boiled potatoes Mashed potatoes 

Club garden peas Boiled rice Summer squash 

Lettuce Cucumbers 



520 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

Pumpkin pie 
Fruit jelley with whipped cream 
Caramel ice cream Cake 
American and Edam cheese Wafers 

Tea Coffee Milk 

Spring water 

TO ORDER. 

Salmon baked in cream with Lamb stew with vegetables.. 15 cents 

French fried potatoes 20 cents Salted almonds 10 cents 

Roast beef au jus 25 cents Extra dessert 10 cents 

Roast duckling, apple sauce. . 25 cents 

Slipper. 

Lamb broth 
Steamed samp with cream 
Stiiffed olives Tomato relish 

Stewed kidney beans with mushrooms 
Baked potatoes Delmonico potatoes 

Vegetable salad 
Orange ice 
Toast: dry, buttered, dipped, milk 
Morningside mufl&ns Tea biscuit 

Fresh raspberries Comb honey 

Assorted cake 
Tea Coffee Cocoa Milk Buttermilk 

Club Farm cottage cheese Toasterettes 

TO ORDER. 

Broiled spring chicken 35 cents Eggs to order, each 5 cents 

Roast beef hash with celery. 25 cents Cheese omelet 15 cent'^ 

Deviled ham on toast 15 cents 

Cold Meats. 

Beef 25 cents Lamb 20 cents 

Ham 15 cents Tongue 20 cents 



POINTS BROUGHT OUT IN THE DISCUSSION. 

People of wealth now, it was stated, live more simply; there are 
fewer wines, fewer courses and less elaborate entertaining. 

It was reported that on the Biltmore estate near Asheville, N. C, 
the Vanderbilts had recently reduced the number of servants from 37 



19 lo] Dining Room Management 521 

to 1 1 . Simplicity is not inconsistent with high standards. An Adiron- 
dack hotel used to advertise "carved furniture in every bedroom.' 
The Lake Placid Club spends lavishly on things that involve health, 
such as sanitary plumbing, fire protection, and the best qualtiy of 
foods, but not a penny on elaborate luxuries or displays. 

In hotels and restaurants, waiters dislike to serve women. They 
do not order substantial meals or give large enough tips. A dis- 
cussion of menu schedules from the dietitian's staindpoint is much 
needed. Simplicity and intelligence should evolve an ideal menu. 

It was voted that the conference stand on record as opposed to 
the vulgarity of so much display and elaborateness in menus, and 
that the committee on resolutions be asked to formulate such a 
protest. 

Dining Room Management. 
Charlotte M. Way. 

Rockford College, Ills. 

The points to be considered, many of which are subject to great 
variation, include the following: 

(i) Number of meals per day. 

(2) A. Cafetaria for factory or school lunches. 
B. Complete meal (served by maids): 

(a) Served simply. 

(b) Served in a number of courses, either individually or in family 

style. 

(3) Length of meal hour. 

(a) Wide limits of time, subject to the pleasure of the guest. 

(b) All served at one time, according to schedule hours. This gives 

more time to maids for side duties. When needed they 
may share in chamber work and begin the preparations in 
kitchen. 

(4) Furniture. 

(a) Shape, capacity, and arrangement of tables in the dining rooms. 

Round tables (5 ft. in diameter) and square tables (4 ft. 
square), each seating eight persons, are the best standards 
for regular use. Larger and smaller tables may be needed 
for special conditions. 

(b) Side tables — (i) small; (2) two shelves and top; (3) at least one 

table for each maid. 

(c) Rolling tables, carrying at least two shelves or trays, for hand- 

ling heavy loads before and after meals. 

(d) Dish- washing machine for stone ware (or china). 



522 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

(5) Organization of sen'ice. 

(a) Whether the care of the rooms, dining rooms and kitchen is under 

one or separate heads. If under separate heads, the work 
is better kept apart. 

(b) Force of workers — men, women or a mixed force. Women adapt 

themselves more easily to a diversity of work. 

(c) If the time in the dining room is short, waitresses may divide 

among themselves (either permanently or alternating) the 
care of the bread, butter, relishes, fruits, and salads, and 
perhaps the care of urns. This work should be under the 
supervision of one person, either the head waitress or head 
pantry-woman, for the avoidance of waste. 

(d) Care of table linen, side towels and aprons. The inspection, 

counting and preparation for the laundry, as well as the 
care and distribution when clean, should be under one head 
for the sake of the linen as well as fairness to the workers. 

(e) Control of breakage of china and glass must be gained in some 

way. 
(i) By personal report to the head officer. 
(2) By a fine of those breaking, consisting of a certain 

percentage of the cost, or by both the above means 

as needed. 
The general spirit of service and loyalty to the employer 

must be a large primary element in controlling this 

problem. 

(f) Each waitress should be responsible for the care of her own silver. 

(g) Workers should have their own dining room and eating elsewhere 

should be prohibited. 

(i) Their meals should be served from 30 to 45 minutes before 
the regular meal. This improves the service in 
both the dining room and kitchen. 

(2) When the general dining room is served family style 
and the help has the same menu economy may 
call for the maids being served afterward. 

(6) Management of the dining room from the student point of view. (This is a 

very large subject, which I can but touch upon.) 

(a) No food must be taken from the dining room to private rooms 

except by written order. 

(b) Tray-service must be paid for by all the family. 

(c) Food not on the menu may not be served without the doctor's 

order, except eggs for breakfast and lunch. These should 
be signed for. 

(d) Food may be sold from the store-room at regular hours for the 

convenience of the family. 

(e) Student dinner parties. 

(i) Numbers limited only by the sizes of tables (8-18). 
(2) Menu: simple, extras being provided by the hostess, 

or by the kitchen at her request and practically 

at cost. 



19 1 o] Dining Room Management 523 

(f) Arrangement of table groups by an oflScer of the college and 
their rearrangement every five or six weeks is a valuable 
custom to cultivate general acquaintance and good com- 
radeship and overcome the tendency to cliques. 

Note. Relation of domestic service to the general labor problem. 
Definite hours of labor and times off duty is one of the most import- 
ant questions in getting good help. When women have worked in 
stores or factories they object to the usual unorganized labor and 
long hours demanded in domestic service. 

Points Brought Out in the Discussion. 

Tables and seating capacity. — Are square or round tables best? A 
table 4 feet square will seat eight persons and a round table 5 feet in 
diameter is best for the same number. Forty-two inches diameter 
is as small as is comfortable for four persons. Legs should be placed 
far under, as in the Lake Placid Club tables. Tablecloths may be 
had in if yards, 2 yards and 2| yards square, the last being just right 
for a table seating eight. Cloths larger than this are clumsy and 
expensive. Bare, polished tables with round doilies have proved 
very satisfactory at the Lake Placid Club, and at least one dining 
room at each center is thus equipped. In large hotel dining rooms 
it is customary to have units to form any combination of numbers. 
Square or oblong tables are best against the walls and round ones in 
center rows, if mixed. This is now a popular custom. Eight is 
considered an ideal number for a congenial dinner party where con- 
versation may be general. 

The Women's Educational and Industrial Union, of Boston, allows 
10 square feet to a person, including aisles and tables, but this is too 
crowded. Fifteen square feet is usually considered ample, but the Lake 
Placid Club figures 16 square feet for liberal space including side stands. 

A Rochester hotel has a kitchen 20 x 48 feet in size, and a dining 
room 40 X loo with no connecting pantry. Three hundred are served 
and nine people do the work. 

Fireless cookers for large institutions . — Miss Van Rensselaer re- 
marked that "the fireless cooker saved our lives when we had to 
serve 450 people with luncheon last week with very small equipment." 
General Sharped experimented with large fireless cookers to give 

>Rpt. Commissary Gen. [U. S. Army], 1909, pp. 11-15. 



524 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

soldiers hot meat in camp without fires, and also getting rid of stale 
odors. Those larger than the 78 gal. size are not practicable. Some 
home-made cookers, like Miss Bevier's, which uses an oven of sheet 
iron covered with asbestos, and with gas to start the cooking, answer 
every purpose. 

All labor-saving food machinery must be carefully sterilized. 
Ptomaine poisoning is due to careless service as much as to poor 
food. It was suggested that we might cook with a coil of steam or 
electricity around the retainer, to overcome the difference between 
the top and bottom heat. We need physicists in colleges to study 
these problems of air space, heat, etc. General Sharpe reports every 
year and will gladly answer questions. He also has field ovens for 
baking bread for the army. 

Regarding at what point it pays to equ'p with live steam and 
labor-saving machinery, it was stated that they are needed for over 
100 but at least 200 are needed to make them pay. Small groups of 
from 50 to 60 are better handled with women cooks. With over 100, 
men cooks are considered necessary. Special education is required 
to use all this equipment and machinery. 

Wellesley College, in all houses with 100 students, has live steam and 
appliances, and steam cookers are in all kitchens foi" over 50 students. 
There are two cooks in the main building, and in Stone Hall for 1 20 
students. In 14 dormitories there are women cooks. 

In the Minnesota College of Agriculture the meals average to cost 
7 cents each per person. Board, room and laundry are $12 a month. 

It was announced that Professor Lynde of Macdonald College has 
now in press a book on Household Physics. At Cornell the professor 
of physics is to cooperate with the Home Economics department. 

Mrs. Mary H. Moran remarked that it is very expensive to handle 
small numbers with power equipment. The best plan is to have one 
kitchen for common needs, where soup stock, bread, ice cream, cake, 
pies, etc., are made and distributed to other centers. Through the 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union in Boston, some 4000 
children and 2000 adults are served with luncheon from the New 
England Kitchen. Much mince meat is used and the electric grinder 
is taken apart every night by the janitor and sterilized. It is very 
difficult to handle. 

Miss Corbett also favored one central kitchen for economy. 



igio] A Lunch Room for Working Girls 525 

A Lunch Room for Working Girls, in Which Simple Instruction is Given. 

Katherine Lage. 

Manhattan Trade School, New York City. 

From the opening of the Manhattan Trade School for Girls seven 
years ago, the need of a simple lunch was apparent. For this purpose 
the basement of the school was fitted up as inexpensively as possible. 
At first, only cocoa, milk and soup were served, the remainder of the 
lunch being brought from home. 

During the financial depression of 1908 a room was opened for 
unemployed women who were in need of a hot nourishing meal. With 
limited equipment it seemed almost impossible to meet this demand, 
but the need was so great that even with no funds available, it was de- 
cided to make the attempt. 

Daily cooking having been established, it seemed a good opportunity 
to teach the preparation and serving of nourishing foods. That there 
is a great deficiency among the girls along this line may be readily 
seen by observing the lunches brought. These consist chiefly of food 
purchased from the baker and fruit from the push-cart, unattractively 
and carelessly wrapped, with little or no thought as to its nutritive 
value or the needs of the individual. Girls coming from some of the 
better homes, where money is freely spent for food, are often insufifi- 
ciently nourished because of a lack of knowledge as to what should 
be purchased. This we are trying to overcome in our instruction and 
through the child to reach the parent, that when these girls become 
home keepers better served, better selected and more nutritious food 
may be the result. 

In 1908 the first cooking class received instruction from a teacher 
of experience, an auxiliary of women having been formed to carry on 
the work. Through voluntary contribution they had secured suffi- 
cient funds to add to the limited equipment already installed, which 
consisted of a two-section gas range, instantaneous waterheater, refrig- 
erator, cupboards containing inexpensive china, a menu board, tables 
and benches, with such cooking utensils as are found in the simplest 
homes, but really nothing that would be called cooking school equip- 
ment. 

To many this lack of individual equipment would seem the greatest 
possible obstacle, but it has its advantages. Most of the girls come from 
homes furnished with only the barest kitchen necessities. They 



526 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

learn here that it is possible to cook appetizing, nourishing food with 
few utensils and that "necessity is the mother of invention." Thus, 
two groups of girls each wanted a small double boiler. Our cupboard 
contained only one. The group not securing it was in despair, but 
with a little assistance they learned to make one from kettles of 
unequal size. One girl remarked that she was very fond of chocolate 
pudding such as we make, but she had never been able to have it at 
home because the double boiler was lacking. Now the problem was 
solved. 

The girls have been enthusiastic about the lunch room from the 
first and seem greatly to enjoy the simple menus offered. They soon 
learned to distinguish between our food and that from the corner 
grocery. The social side, long recognized as a means of development, 
also appeals to them. They enjoy coming together as one great family 
where they can have more freedom than in the class room. The 
lunch room is not large enough to accommodate the whole school, 
so the girls have been divided, each section coming first for a week. 

No article is sold for more than three cents and we try to meet the 
needs of the students and at the same time serve variety enough to 
prevent them from buying the unwholesome food from the delica- 
tessen stores. 

How well we have succeeded the receipts indicate. They have 
increased three-fold since the inauguration of regular cooking. 
Very few now bring lunch from home. 

We always serve soup, cocoa, milk, one or two hot dishes, bread 
and butter, beef sandwiches, two kinds of cake, two or three desserts, 
with one cooked fruit and two varieties of fresh fruit. 

A menu with the cost of each article is placed in a conspicuous 
place where it may be read before passing to the counter where all 
cold foods are arranged. The hot dishes are served by members of 
the cooking class with one paid helper. That the choice may be wise 
some one is always present to guide in the selection of foods. On the 
girl's way to the tables the cashier must be passed, then she may sit 
at any vacant place and enjoy her food and her friends. When lunch 
is over she brings forward soiled dishes, napkins and refuse and 
deposits each in receptacles conveniently placed, leaving the table 
as she would like to find it. 

Not all of the girls can take the cooking owing to the limitations 
under which we are working, therefore selections are made upon the 
following basis : First, those who are physically deficient either from 



19 lo] A Lunch Room for Working Girls 527 

a wrong selection of food or from insufficient supply of the proper 
kind; second, those girls who are home keepers either on account of 
the death of the mother or her inability to take the responsibility of 
the family; third, those who can remain long enough in the school to 
complete the trade work and the cooking as well. 

A course of thirty lessons is given, one each day until the course is 
completed, thus giving them nearly as long a course as the public 
schools with the advantage that mistakes and acquired knowledge 
from the previous lesson are still fresh in memory. 

Most of the food prepared is sold from the lunch counter, but each 
day something is cooked to be served immediately. This is very 
welcome to those who have come with little or no breakfast. 

The girls enjoy cooking in large amounts chiefly because they feel 
they are doing something really useful. They also enjoy the com- 
mendation of their friends or classmates who are sure to inquire what 
girls made the dish which has specially pleased them. 

Emphasis is also placed upon such food as they might prepare in 
the shop or factory where a kitchen is supplied for the use of the 
workers. 

Members of the cooking class come to the lunch room at 12 o'clock, 
assist in preparing food, arrange tables, and take accurate account of 
the articles sold. These girls do not pay for their lunches and are 
not limited in their selection except as to desserts. For many this is 
the only hot meal they have during the day. Suggestions as to table 
manners are here made. 

One of our difficulties has been to create a desire for wholesome 
foods with which they are unfamiliar. The girls are encouraged 
to sample such food each time it appears on the menu and soon a liking 
for it is acquired. For those not in the cooking class we have insti- 
tuted a system of tasting to create a desire for some food which has 
not yet become popular. It is not strange, when they have so few 
pennies, that they should always choose things they have tried. In 
like position we, too, would hesitate to spend our all for food we did 
not know. 

The ability to cook independently is tested when they are required 
to prepare food at home for exhibition. In most cases no assistance 
can be obtained from the mother because she has not the knowledge 
to impart. When it seems necessary, materials as well as utensils 
are furnished. 

Many gratifying requests for recipes come from the parents. Many 



528 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

are of foreign birth and are not accustomed to our great variety of 
foods. They are also much handicapped because they know neither 
the spoken nor written language. When the daughter has had her 
instruction in cooking she takes her recipe home, translates it into 
her mother's language and thus our instruction is passed on, making 
many a family happier and better. 

Often the girls have trouble with recipes, the simplest language 
proving an enigma. In one case a recipe had been taken home and 
the following morning the meaning of the word 'scald' was asked. 
The dictionary had been consulted but the word found meant some- 
thing about liquor, and this of course did not help. When questioned 
about the use of the word the girl said it was in a recipe I had given 
her. The directions were ''to scald the milk." 

The principles of table setting are also taught. To the unintiated 
this may seem a simple and easy lesson but in several cases it required 
repeating seven or eight times. This is not strange when we look into 
the family life and discover that in many homes no table is set, each 
member eating what he can find when he feels so inclined. In other 
instances pennies are put in a convenient place for purchase of food 
when the pangs of hunger anno}'. 

The final lesson . is a breakfast or luncheon to which some of 
the teachers and auxiliary board have been invited. Each girl pre- 
pares and serves some part of the meal. 

Our lessons do not always come in logical order because the demands 
of the lunch room must be met. I have often been asked what we 
do with food values. We do all that we possibly can, depending 
somewhat upon the class. Many in a class recently completing the 
work did not at the start know cinnamon, nutmeg, or soda under 
any name nor even the names of the simplest cooking utensils. 
Upon inquiry it was found that the mothers in these families were the 
wage earners and had little time or inclination to cook a meal after 
a day of strenuous work. Classes like this have been given a few 
more weeks of cooking to insure sufficient knowledge to be of assist- 
ance in the home. With many this is the only knowledge they obtain 
until they are established in homes of their own and we hope it will 
serve to make them better and more capable home makers. 

To provide food for small cost and have it both nourishing and 
palatable, something of food values must be known. The inexpensive 
materials such as could be purchased in the average family are studied, 
and simple, well-balanced menus arc considered. More than this we 
have been unable to do. 



19 lo] Nutrition Investigations and the Dining Room 529 

All through our work we have kept ever in mind the thought of 
some time being able to teach domestic service as a trade, but as yet 
our hopes have not been realized owing to lack of funds to promote 
the work. 

Discussion. 

It was asked whether instruction in domestic arts should be insisted 
on in vacation schools? And can these domestic arts be taught as 
a trade? 

There is much trouble in some schools because teachers are so 
often tactless. One said to a pupil : " You are too nice a girl to wait 
on table, you don't have to earn your lunch." This feeling spread 
through the school and it was almost impossible to get waitresses. 
Boys are used in some schools. 

When Macdonald Institute opened, it was thought the chief end 
of a girl was to learn to cook. If visitors came and a girl was cleaning 
her first impulse was to run to cover. Now there is no trouble, rich 
girls working side by side with the poorest. At first the girls fought 
against housework but now they are proud of it. Canadian high 
schools were started with volunteers and there is no trouble in getting 
waitresses or girls to wash dishes. 

Nutrition Investigations in Relation to Dining-Room Management. 

C. F. Langworthy. 
Office of Experiment Stations, United Slates Department of Agriculture. 

The paper here summarized outlined some of the conditions which 
must be met if the diet of the institution, i.e., the group living under 
more or less uniform conditions, is to be reasonable and rational as 
well as palatable. Economy in purchase, storage, preparation and 
service are desirable. Cleanliness, which is truly appHed hygiene 
not merely the following of tradition, is vital, and if the problem is to' 
be rightly solved, age, sex and activity must be considered in fixing 
upon food supply, that is material to build repairs and run the body 
machine. 

To do these things and have the result a pleasing dietary is no easy 
task, but it can be done. Here, as in other matters, knowledge and 
wisdom both are needed. Scientific studies of food composition of 



530 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[November 



Summary of Dietary Studies in Public Institutions 



LOCATION AND SUBJECTS OF STUDIES. 



NUMBER OF 

PERSONS IN 

STUDY. 



Bayview, Baltimore; regular inmates, males 

Chronic inmates, males 

Receiving ward inmates, males 

Average of 3 studies 

Women inmates, per woman per day 

Women inmates, per man per day basis 

Average of 4 studies 

Aged Women's Home, Baltimore; per woman per day 

Aged Men's Home, Baltimore; per man per day 

General German Aged People's Home, Baltimore; per man per day. 
Asylum for Indigent Widows and Single Women, Philadelphia, per 

woman per day 

Government Hospital for Insane; patients, males — middle to old age 

Largely chronic, orderly, quiet, few workers; average of 10 studies 

Acute, nervous, disturbed, non-workers; average of 3 studies 

Negroes, whole group • 

Negroes, non-workers 

Negroes, workers 

Sick, infirm, bedridden; average of 2 studies 

Younger and more active class, some curable, part workers; aver- 
age of 2 studies 

Better class, on first section diet; average of 2 studies 

Unclassified; average of 2 studies 

Average of all patients, New York State Hospital for the Insane: 

Patients, males — Chronic, infirm; average of 8 studies 

Light workers and disturbed; average of 2 studies 

Workers, average of 10 studies 

Restless, active, disturbed; average of 2 studies 

Acute, recent admission; average of 2 studies 

Acute and sick, chronic; average 2 studies 

Almshouse, Baltimore 1852 — non- workers: 

Workers 

Long Island Almshouse and Hospital, Boston 

Charlestown Almshouse and Hospital, Boston 



136 
82 
82 



III 
III 

76 
48 
70 

"3 

952 
94 

169 
89 
80 

i66 

59 

22 
127 

1069 
318 

IS9S 

258 

70 

35 



1910] Nutrition Investigations and the Dining Room 



531 



in the United States. {Quantities per person per day.) 



NUTRIENTS AND ENERGY. 



In Food Eaten. 



Protein, Grams. Energy, Calories 



144 

93 
III 

121 

85 
106 

"3 
85 
83 
74 

58 



84 
98 
90 
108 
97 

104 

76 
90 
72 

73 
los 
95 
6S 
66 

78 

85 

109 

71 



2901 
2016 

2274 

2504 
1924 

2405 
2414 
2206 

2339 
2225 



2767 

2599 
2536 
2402 
2694 
2519 

2917 
3398 
2609 
2704 

2259 
2255 

2908 
2665 
2477 
2432 

1959 

2057 

3164 
2415 



In Food Wasted. 



Protein, Grams. 
4 

2 
I 

3 
6 
8 

4 
12 

9 



13 
22 
12 
12 
13 
34 

12 

29 
18 
16 
4 
4 
7 
6 

7 

4 



Energy, Calories 

97 

45 

II 

59 
134 
168 

84 
308 
304 
265 



341 
567 
315 
306 

319 

802 

256 
753 
539 
415 
90 

94 
132 

142 

161 

94 



Proportion in Food Wasted. 



Protein,Per CentiEnergy,Per Cent. 



3 

2 

I 
2 

7 

7 

3 

14 

II 

II 



13 
21 
II 
12 
II 
26 

10 

19 

19 

15 

5 

5 

7 

6 

9 



3 
2 

2 
7 
7 
3 

14 
13 



II 
18 
II 
II 
II 
24 



18 
17 
13 
4 
4 
4 
5 
6 

4 



532 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[November 



digestibility, and of other factors are furnishing a fund of fact. Knowl- 
edge can be gained. Wisdom comes with experience. The data 
now at hand make it possible for the nutrition expert to do for the 
institution food problem what the trained expert can do for any other 
business organization; that is, insure better conditions, better service, 
and greater satisfaction for all concerned, both the managementand 
the persons provided for. 

As an aid in institution work a score card is suggested, in which 
the various factors to be considered are given a theoretical rating, 
with which conditions as they exist may be compared as a basis for 
change or for making sure that a standard is kept. This score card, 
which was offered simply as a basis for discussion, follows: 

Dietary Score Card for a Public 1 nstitution. 



MAXIMUM 

VALUE. 



Quality of food 

Adequacy of food 

Economy of food, i.e. cost as compared with income 

Cooking, serving and palatability 

Cleanliness in kitchen and dining-room 

Attractiveness of diet 

Total 



Points. 
25 
25 

20 
10 
10 
10 



A large number of dietary studies in public institutions have been 
made in the United States, particularly in connection with the nutri- 
tion investigations of the U. S. Department of Agriculture.' The 
table given on pages 530 and 531 summarizes the results of Ameri- 
can work of this character. 

Some results of dietary studies with individuals in public institu- 
tions in foreign countries are summarized in the following table : 



' United States Department of Agriculture, OfTice of Experiment Stations, Buls. 
150, Dietary Studies at the Government Hospital for the Insane, Washington, 
D. C; 223, Dietary Studies in Public Institutions in Philadelphia, Pa., by Emma 
Smedley and R. D. Milner, and Dietary Studies in Pul)lic Institutions in Balti- 
more, Md., by H. L. Knight, 11. .\. Pratt, and C F. Langworthy. 



iQio] Nutrition Investigations and the Dining Room 



533 



Results of Dietary Studies with Individuals in Public Institutions in ForeignCountries. 
(Quantities per person per day.) 



SUBJECTS OF STUDIES. 



Experiments by Linbeck : 

Woman, 79 yrs. old, weight 84 lbs ^ s s u y . 

l^ second study. 

Woman 61 yrs. old, weight 81 lbs 

Experiments by Kov^es: 

! first study 
second study, 
third study. 
(first study 
second study, 
third study. 
Experiments by Fenger: 

first diet , 

second diet 

third diet 

fourth diet 



Woman, 61 yrs. old = 




One of the objects of the dietary studies in public institutions 
recently reported by the Office of Experiment Stations was to secure 
data for suggesting dietary standards for aged people and for children. 

Standards for aged persons which have been suggested by a num- 
ber of investigators are given in the following table: 



534 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[November 



Suggested Dietary Standards for Aged People. 
(Quantities per person per day). 



SUBJECTS OF STUDIES. 



NUTRIENTS AND ENERGY 
IN FOOD EATEN. 



Protein. 



Energy. 



Voit: 

Old man, no work 

Old man, light work 

Old woman, no work 

Old woman, light work 

Old people, hard work 

Maurel, maintenance rations: 

Men, 60 yrs., average weight, 145 lbs 

Men, '/o yrs., average weight, 139 lbs 

Men 80 yrs., average weight, 134 lbs 

Men, 90 yrs., average weight, 128 lbs 

Women, 60 yrs., average weight, 125 lbs 

Women, 70 yrs., average weight 119 lbs 

Women, 80 yrs. average weight, 114 lbs 

Women, 90 yrs., average weight, 108 lbs 

Atwater: 

Man without muscular work 

Man at sedentary work or woman with moderately 

active work 

Man with light to moderate muscular work 



Grams. 



90 

100 
112 



Calories. 



90 


2116 


100 


2689 


80 


1831 


85 


2096 


100 


2898 


82 


196s 


79 


1891 


46 


1531 


43 


1446 


71 


1702 


67 


1612 


39 


1288 


3V 


1234 



2450 

2700 

3050 



In discussing the dietary standards suggested for aged persons and 
children as a result of the recent United States Department of Agri- 
culture investigations, the dietary standard for a man in full vigor at 
moderate muscular work is taken as a unit. It must be remembered 
in all such discussions that a dietary standard is simply a guide for 
home and institution management and is not to be considered as an 
expression of absolute physiological requirement. The dietary 
standard suggested by the Ofhce of Experiment Stations for a man 
in full vigor at moderate muscular work follows, the data being 
given on the basis of food purchased, food eaten, and food digested: 



igio] Nutrition Investigations and the Dining Room 



535 



United States Department of Agriculture, Dietary Standard. 
(For a man in full vigor at moderate muscular work). 

KIND OF FOOD. 

Food as purchased 

Food eaten 

Food digested 




The relative amounts of food required by persons of different age 
and occupation as compared v/ith a man in full vigor at moderate 
work, as determined on the basis of the work of the Office of Experi- 
ment Stations, are shov/n in the following table: 



Relative values for food requirements of persons of different age and occupation as 
compared with a man in full vigor at moderate work. 

Man, period of full vigor: 

At moderate work loo 

At hard work 120 

At sedentary occupation 80 

Woman, period of full vigor: 

At moderate work 80 

At hard work 100 

At sedentary occupation 7° 

Man or woman: 

Old age 7080 

Extreme old age 90 

Boy: 

15 to 16 years old 9° 

13 to 14 years old 80 

1 2 years old 7° 

10 to 1 1 years old 60 

Girl: 

15 to 16 years old 80 

13 to 14 years old 7° 

10 to 1 2 years old 60 

Child: 

6 to 9 years old 5° 

2 to 5 years old 4° 

Under 2 years old 3° 

As a part of the discussion following the paper, Dr. Langworthy 
pointed out that an institution may be defined as any group of persons 



536 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

fed under uniform conditions, as in the army and navy, the popula- 
tion of almshouses, prisons, asylums, and other public institutions, 
and the groups in boarding houses and hotels. The well trained 
dietitian must know the amount of food required and the dietary 
standards for persons of different age and sex and with different 
muscular work and environment, and must also know about food 
composition, shrinkage in storage and preparation of food, and similar 
matters. Kitchens must maintain standards of cleanliness and it 
is a prime requisite that an institution shall provide a reasonable 
amount of food suited to the needs of the group fed. 

Both overfeeding and underfeeding must be avoided. The energy 
requirements of man at work or at rest are reasonably certain, but the 
exact amount of protein needed is still more or less a matter of opinion, 
though information is accumulating rapidly. Much of the discussion 
about this matter is due to the fact that persons do not distinguish 
between physiological requirements and dietary standards, the latter 
being simply guides for home and institution management. Another 
source of confusion is the failure to distinguish between standards 
expressed on the basis of food purchased, food eaten, and food digested. 
These factors are taken into account in the dietary standards recently 
proposed by the Department of Agriculture, and which it is believed 
it is safe to follow at present. As noted in the above paper, these 
call for 118 grams protein and 3,800 calories of energy per man per day 
in the food purchased for a man in full vigor and engaged in moder- 
ately active muscular work. If considered on the basis of food eaten, 
the amounts are 100 grams protein and 3,500 calories of energy, and if 
considered on the basis of food digested, 95 grams protein and 3,200 
calories of energy are called for. 

As an illustration of the importance of applying knowledge to insti- 
tution problems, Mrs. Abel's work in Baltimore may be mentioned. 
Some years ago she made a very careful study of the food problem 
at Bayview, the city almshouse, and as a result suggested a diet which 
was ample as regards protein and energy, reasonably palatable, and 
cheap, since it cost only seven cents per man per day. To insure 
palatability many expedients were resorted to, such as serving meat 
dishes in which the meat was browned instead of always serving 
soups and stews, which is a common custom in institutions where low 
cost is necessary. The use of cooked cereals at breakfast in jjlace 
of bread made little difference in cost and was a very acceptable addi- 
tion to the diet. 



19 lo] Nutrition Investigations and the Dining Room 537 

Investigations in public institutions show that there is great need 
for the use of scales and for checking weights in institution buying, 
or one may pay for 100 pounds and get much less. In one case it 
was found that a wholesale firm which on a large order for choice cuts 
of meat made a price three cents a pound lower than a competitor, 
supplied material which was twenty-five pounds short in weight. 
No one would contend that the majority of dealers engage in such 
practices, but it is always well to check up purchases at frequent 
intervals. 

In the course of the discussion, it was pointed out that score cards 
similar to the dietary score card suggested would be of great value 
in all departments of institution work. Score cards should be posted 
in kitchens and in such cases should cover the problem of sanitation, 
including hygienic construction, and should especially emphasize 
keeping out all flies, which are apparently much more dangerous 
even than dust and visible dirt. Score cards should be made to apply 
to the quality of various kinds of food and to cooking. They may 
also be used to help the visiting dietitian as well as the institution 
manager. If a poor woman has five dollars a week to spend for food 
for her family, how much is she justified in using for certain kinds of 
food ? Cannot the Conference help in this work? Manuals are 
needed as well as score cards. It has been suggested that an excellent 
way of teaching the use of the score card would be to have score 
card parties in which guests were invited to score the house where they 
were entertained. Miss Hunt is responsible for this idea. Miss 
Alline has devised score cards for use in the work which she has carried 
on under the New York State Board of Education in visiting institu- 
tions for trained nurses and considers them among the first necessi- 
ties of her work. Such score cards would lead to better inspection 
systems in many lines. At least one city in the United States has 
adopted dairy inspection based on score cards. They could readily 
be applied to inspection work in bakeries and other places where 
food is prepared and in general to judging of the cleanliness of all 
kinds of work which pertains to the home. 

As regards hygiene of food, too much insistence cannot be made 
on decent methods of handling, preparing and serving it. Mrs. 
Abel says that the problem of clean food is chiefly the problem of 
clean hands. In designing plans for public institutions basement 
kitchens below the level of the sidewalk or road should be avoided. 
It is almost impossible to prevent dust blowing into such kitchens in 
clouds. 



538 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

The question of teaching table decorum in public schools was also 
considered, more especially with reference to such groups as students 
in college clubs and boarding houses. It was pointed out that there 
are in vogue in the United States two customs of decorum at table, 
each of which has its advocates, some persons preferring to follow 
English customs and others French. The English use the knife in 
the right hand and the fork in the left, while the French use the fork 
in the right hand with a piece of bread in the left. Students very 
generally need instruction in table usages and customs, and experience 
shows that it is much better to make suggestions regarding table 
manners before the teachers have watched the students at the table, 
as then the suggestions will not be regarded as individual criticisms. 
Table customs change. As an illustration, it was fashionable a hun- 
dred and more years ago to drink from a saucer and the use of the 
knife for conveying food to the mouth was not a breach of good man- 
ners, but a custom which has come down from a still older time when 
forks were unknown or very rare. The teacher should endeavor to 
instruct her pupils in what is considered good usage and in all the 
ordinary matters of table manners, but should also emphasize the 
unimportance of fads in table service and in table utensils and decora- 
tion. Here, as in cooking and serAdng food, the . reasonable and 
rational should receive attention and not the useless or trivial. 



Courses of Instruction in Laundry Management. 
L. Ray Balderston. 

Teachers College. 

"The world gives its admiration not to those who do what nobody 
else attempts but to those who do best what multitudes do well." 
These words of Macaulay have been our laboratory motto this year. 
We felt it a good motto because we knew that as far as laundry work, 
from its old standpoint, was concerned, many did good work but we 
wanted to do the best work. 

No department of an institution requires more organization and 
care than the laundry. Visitors ask, why put the laundry course in the 
school or college curriculum? What will the students ever do with 
it? Just where does this course come in? What will these women 
do when they leave here? 



^9^°J Courses in Laundry Management, 530 

Our answers are numerous. Any school teaching household arts 
could not possibly do complete work and omit laundering, an art so 
essential to all members of the household. Every woman knows that 
a large part of many women's lives is spent at the wash tub Whv 
not know the easier and better way for herself, or know how to teach 
It for better results from her workers? Physical energy, mere human 
power so often expended in laundry work, is wasted to a great extent 
and could be used to better advantage in saving time for other duties 
or pleasures. To quote Professor Ruediger, ''Every profession is 
based on a number of pure sciences that must be mastered," and 
again. Every profession requires systematic training and practice 
under guidance " The art or profession of laundering does not differ 
irom other professions. 

With the growth of flats or apartments, hospitals 6000 strong, and 
schools and colleges, the demand for proficient head-workers should 
increase. These institution laundries should be presided over by a 
trained worker, while the commercial or community laundry (for such 
we may call the apartment house laundry), and we cannot omit the 
httle basement laundries under stores, should be inspected as to their 
samtary conditions and their use and abuse of clothing. Trained 
women as inspectors should, and in time will, play a very important 
part, 1 believe, in the hcensed laundry. 

Every institution meets an heroic problem as to time, labor and 
expense in the fact that no institution can be properly conducted 
without an ever-ready supply of clean Knen. The washing of this 
hnen must be done as cheaply as possible, and at the same time 
qmckly and well. The institution owes to the church, society the 
commumty, or to the State which gives it birth, a practical and 
economical solution to its management problem. For some time 
past the trained worker has supervised buying supphes, cleaning and 
repairs, while the expert dietitian has planned and watched the food 
purchased and prepared, has prohibited waste, and overseen all the 
culinary activities. This has all meant economy. Why should the 
laundry department be left headless or with a head who is appointed 
It may be, through friendship or political favor, and who is without 
knowledge or, worse still, without principle? The time has come when 
the sad mistakes from such appointments are being appreciated and 
when It IS becoming evident that expert knowledge or practical and 
scientific traimng are indispensable to the successful management 



540 The Journal of Home Economics fNovember 

A natural consequence is the increasing demand for trained heads of 
laundries or qualified assistants, and resulting from this, a school 
where managers, superintendents and instructors are taught. Know- 
ing the demand and foreseeing the vastness of the work, a course was 
opened last fall in Teachers College, Columbia University, under the 
department of household administration. 

In the new household arts building a laundry laboratory was 
planned where instruction might be given in domestic or home 
laundering, and in institution laundering. This room is 40 x 28 
ft. and by the arrangement of domestic and institutional equip- 
ment has been divided in half. The floor is of white two-inch 
hexagonal tile, with a sanitary curved base of tile. The pitch of the 
floor is such as to insure rapid and complete drainage to an outlet 
under the stationary tubs. A five foot wainscoting of white tile and 
light cream colored enamel paint form the wall, while white enamel 
paint finishes the ceiHng, making an entirely waterproof room. 

It seemed wiser to have one laboratory accommodate the two types 
of classes, so some of the equipment is more or less interchangeable. 
The twenty-four stationary porcelain tubs, placed in two rows, occupy 
the middle of the domestic half of the laboratory. These tubs have 
been set higher than the usual plumber's standard, and we find thorough 
satisfaction results, as the washers keep drier and there is much less 
back strain. I heartily believe in the higher wash tub. To have 
this height a tub must be chosen with gas pipe legs. Our tubs are 
smaller than is usual because they were to be used as laboratory tubs 
where a number of students work at a time, and consequently the 
smaller tub economized space, and again the wash of each student in 
practice is smaller than the home wash. Each tub, besides being 
piped with hot and cold water, has an "L" shaped nickel steam pipe 
which permits the tub being used as a boiler. 

This equipment is quite possible for apartment houses or flat 
houses where a central laundry is used by the renters, and by small 
institutions where body work only is done, because the small quantity 
of soiled clothing does not warrant power machines. With 100 lbs. 
pressure of steam a tub full of clothes may be boiled in five minutes. 
A little care will eliminate the only disadvantage resulting from these 
steam pipes, and that is to allow a clear passage of steam through 
the pipes and thus drive out any rust that may form. Brass piping 
is a sure way of preventing the formation of rust, but its cost is almost 
prohibitive. 



19 lo] Courses in Laundry Management 541 

Ten ironing tables of the commercial type have been placed along 
the window side of the room, a blackboard being on the opposite wall. 
We have gas and electric heated irons. Electric irons weighing eight 
pounds and with a light attachment at the switch do work well if care 
is used. 

While this equipment seems to be entirely for teaching the domestic 
laundry classes, it is so much a part of the outfit for the institutional 
classes that a description of the laboratory would be incomplete 
without it. 

The institutional machinery is of the American type, and has been 
chosen to represent such machines as are necessary for every steam 
laundry plant, the size, number and variety being a matter of condi- 
tions. The washing machine is of 1 00 shirt capacity, with a galvanized 
iron outer cylinder and brass cage. The 20-inch extractor, the 75- 
inch return mangle, the two-section cabinet drier, the starch kettle, 
and the soap tank constitute the stationary equipment. A 7I h.p. 
motor runs this apparatus at a cost of 5 cents an hour. This cost is 
high, as more work could be done and the electricity more economically 
used. The machinery was chosen in a small size because of t he original 
cost, but more than all with the idea that the small equipment would 
teach all that a larger one could. The cabinet drier was selected over 
a conveyor because of the varied type of work, and again because this 
cabinet must answer as a drier for the domestic classes. 

The time given during the last year has been three consecutive hours 
a week. The class averaged 12 members, composed of graduate 
nurses and of those training for institution management or for teach- 
ing. I believe a course in domestic laundry should precede the 
mstitutional. About 40 minutes each day was given to talks on 
types of laundries, types, use and care of machinery, methods of 
marking, removal of stains, division of labor, and similar topics. 

Each lesson had some practical work in the washing, extracting and 
mangling of fiat work. No hand-ironing was done by the institutional 
classes. About 200 pieces a lesson were asked for from the dormitory 
or gymnasium. Owing to the number of students, it was necessary 
to divide he class work— those washing one week, mangHng the next. 
At the close of the lesson period the finished work was ready to go 
back to the sender. The students at all times were responsible for 
the greasing or oiling of machinery and timing water changes, 
and each had some practice in all hnes of the work. I believe the 
practice was sufficient to make the student feel that she had the main 



542 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

preliminary knowledge necessary to work quickly into the larger 
field. We know every hospital or institution has its own problems 
of the division of the day's work, division of the help's work, and cost, 
but these, I believe, cannot be laid down by any rules other than 
to present different outlines of work from different institutions as a 
working basis. 

As in any teaching or hospital training work, the students visited 
large commercial laundries to see various and improved types of 
machinery. These outside visits have great advantages in showing 
ideas of sanitation, in arrangement of rooms, type of helpers, and 
differences in the consideration given to the helpers. 

In this connection I must speak of the welfare work done in the 
Pilgrim Laundry in Brooklyn. Miss Jane Seymour Klink is employed 
as the welfare worker in this commercial bundry and her work is 
largely from the social and ethical side. While knowing the propor- 
tions of starches and blues and the work they should do if rightly 
used, it is her special function to know the girls in all departments. 
She it is who encourages saving by the Penny Provident Fund, and 
who acts as cashier. She it is who attends to aches and pains, 
each time making a record of medicine given and the amount; she it 
is who knows where her girls go on a vacation or why they are away 
from work. A small circulating library in her little ofl5ce is for all. 
A hot substantial addition to the day's luncheon is prepared under her 
guidance at a cost of from three to six cents, the workers bringing 
from home the bread and butter to lessen the cost. 

The lot system is employed. Cards are sent out to all departments 
saying it is a lo or ii lot day, and each lot of clothing is put through 
its various stages by the time card. If the lot is finished ahead of 
time, the time between lots may be used as rest or relaxation time. 
In this laundry the worker is never too busy to measure the water 
in the gauge, never too busy to set his time clock, teUing him accur- 
ately when to make the changes, never too busy to measure soaps 
or blues. A paper, Pilgrim's Progress, is pubhshed monthly. Some 
of the workers in the laundry act as editorial staff, and the paper 
reports the general activity as any society paper might tell of the 
life of its subscribers. As a part of the club idea, every employee 
wears a pin, from which a small silver numeral hangs which tells the 
number of years of service. 

I have spoken at length of this commercial laundry in order that 
I might show distinctly the kind of work that may be done in business 
establishments, but is not often done. 



iQio] Courses in Laundry Management 543 

To return to the work at Teachers College, the students are asked, 
besides the visiting , to work along research lines, and are given special 
subjects. 

So much for what we have done, and now a few of our desires for 
the future. Soon one division will be too large; when we have more 
it will be possible to do shift work. This will represent the day's work 
better, in that the morning class can start certain large pieces of work 
and the afternoon class can finish, making it possible to do more 
work, and longer and more detailed problems. We can work out 
the problem of the best washing machine. We can prove if the wash 
wheel is all the sterilizer needed. We anticipate the time when the 
course extends during the whole year and the students of the second 
term will act as managers and supervise or direct the work of the 
juniors. 

With either of these two advances it will be possible to do test work, 
such as analyzing blues, soaps and waters to the point of feeling 
familiar with the question, and at any time being ready to detect 
inferior or adulterated goods. Again, it will be possible to experi- 
ment with the effect of bleaches. One marked set of clothes can be 
washed with bleach each time, and another, by way of comparison, 
having no bleach. The goods must be purchased at the same time, 
be of the same quality, and be kept until worn beyond use that the 
comparative effects may be studied. 

Should it not be possible for the students to go to a special depart- 
ment and study, I believe the nurse, for example, could take one month 
in the laundry, as she does in the diet kitchen, and each week work 
out some special problem The institutional worker in training might 
apprentice in some institutional laundry where good work is done. 
We are just beginning on this new career, this new type of work in 
the laundry world, and while we may have many theories that may 
not succeed, they cannot help but lead to the way for better work, 
done in a sanitary, scientific, practical and econom cal manner. 

What should we ask for? A person at the head of every laundry 
department in every institution who has made the matter a study, 
whose word is taken as authority, whose scientific research can be 
proved, whose interest is a live one for the good of humanity in the 
laundry by providing healthful, well ventilated work rooms, wash 
rooms as well as ironing rooms, far from dark, damp and poorly ven- 
tilated cellars. We would also ask for better pay, so that the piece 
worker no longer need crouch over his iron and work as if hounded and 
probed by the prongs of the evil one. 



^44 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

We would also ask for an interest for humanity outside the laundry, 
shown by placing at the head a person with a knowledge of popular 
methods of washing, proper proportions of soap and water for clean 
clothes, the best kinds of soaps, and a knowledge whether they are 
loaded with surplus alkali or weighted with rosin. We would ask for 
a person who knows the best blues and whether they are made of iron 
compounds, which break up in the presence of alkahes, depositing the 
iron spots so often laid to the rusty nail or boiler; or whether the 
blue is made soluble by acids, or weighted with sand, which can never 
make any clothes blue. We would ask for a person who knows the 
use and abuse of bleaches, their necessity or their uselessness ; who 
knows the various fabrics, their structure, their dye, and how they may 
be cleaned to the best advantage and so save color and texture. 

We would ask for a person who knows enough of chemicals to make 
them of the most help in setting colors and in removing stains and 
still do little harm to the fabrics. We would ask in fine for a person 
whose scientific principles wdll go hand in hand with practical knowl- 
edge and personal exertion. 

Equipment for the Small Institutional Laundry. 

Clara D. Noyes. 
St. Luke's Hospital, New Bedford, Mass. 

Location. — When building an institution laundry choose its location 
with relation to light, sunshine and a free circulation of air; preferably 
a separate building if there is sufficient space. The top floor of a 
building is the next most desirable location. A basement laundry 
is very undesirable; examples of such can be studied in hotels and 
many commercial laundries. 

Construction. — The architectural lines of the main buildings should 
be maintained when building a laundry. It should be harmonious 
architecturally and a pleasing feature of the institution. The main 
points to consider in construction are first durability, second sim- 
plicity, and third convenience. 

Durability. — Only those materials should be chosen which will 
prove durable and lasting. The walls should be of a hard, impervious 
finish, white or pale cream in color. Hard plaster, although providing 
an impervious finish, chips, cracks and breaks, and requires frequent 



1910] Equipment for the Institutional Laundry 545 

painting. The glazed brick makes a good partition and outside wall 
and furnishes all the features desired. It is more expensive to put 
in, but cheaper in the end, does not chip, crack or break and presents 
a smooth, impervious finish. Tiled walls are also very beautiful but 
are not so serviceable as the glazed brick. Floors should be of grano- 
lithic or tiling, as these are easily kept clean, are non-absorbent, and 
are far more sightly than other floorings. 

The ceiling of metal, painted in white or cream enamel, is durable 
and clean. Sheathed partitions and walls are dangerous and unhy- 
gienic, and unless painted in white enamel make the laundry dark. 

Simplicity in arrangement and construction are the next points to 
consider. Avoid closets and dark corners, broad window ledges and 
panelled doors. Endeavor to reduce the opportunities for the col- 
lection of dust to a minimum, thus avoiding extraordinary outlay of 
labor in keeping the laundry clean. Simplicity in construction, 
arrangement, and equipment naturally implies less work and fewer 
workers.. 

Convenience. — In arranging the floor plan, great attention should 
be paid to the question of convenience. The soiled linen should pass 
in regular order from .the receiving and sorting room to the washroom, 
the extractor, the shaker, and the dryer, in turn. 

The ironing, mangling and body ironers should be arranged with 
the greatest care to save steps. The ironing boards should be sufii- 
ciently near the body ironers to be reached easily. The irons, heated 
in whichever way is most expedient, should not require a single step 
out of the way. If gas-heated, provide each ironer with her own gas 
stove at the end of the ironing board. It is a great waste of time and 
strength to require ironers to walk to the next room every time they 
require a hot flat-iron. 

From the ironing room the linen should next pass on to the sorting 
room for clean goods. The more thought displayed in the question 
of a convenient arrangement of ground plan, machinery and general 
equipment, the greater saving in the end. 

After the laundry has been located and built, the question of equip- 
ment must be studied with regard to the peculiar needs of each institu- 
tion. The number and size of the pieces of machinery depends entirely 
upon the size of the institution and the daily average number to be 
kept provided with clean linen. No unnecessary pieces of machinery 
should ever be introduced, and every piece installed should be in con- 
stant use and give good returns, e.g., it would be extremely extra va- 



546 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

gant to put in collar and cufif machinery or shirt ironers if there are 
only a few men to use such pieces of linen. 

It is wise to select the machinery from a dealer close at hand. In 
case of repairs or breakdowns it is much less expensive than to be 
obliged to send off a long distance for parts of a machine and less time 
is wasted in waiting. 

The only safe way is to begin by making a careful study of other 
laundries, both institutional and commercial. A great deal can be 
learned from the latter. As the commercial laundry is equipped to 
make money, great attention is paid to the choice and selection of 
machinery, and only that which will give the best returns in well 
finished quick work at the least outlay of money and force to operate 
is ever installed. 

Arrangement. — The position of the various pieces is important. 
They should be placed at a sufficient distance from the walls to allow 
for passing easily back of them. This will permit cleaning, and also 
keep the walls cleaner. It applies to set tubs as well as other equip- 
ment. The washers, tumbler or shaker, and soap tank should be 
placed in line, the extractor in front of the washers, and the set tubs 
near the washers. As the dryer will be needed after the tumbler, it 
is well to have it quite near. If an engine or motor is used it is just 
as well to have it in this room unless it is placed in the engine room. 
The starch kettle should be near the set tubs, although a separate 
room for starching is sometimes recommended as a matter of cleanli- 
ness. A neat wall-closet near the engine will hold all the supplies 
necessary for the engineer's use. Another will be needed for the 
utensils used in blue and starch-making, such as measuring cups, 
glasses, strainers and straining cloths, pails and dippers. The ironing 
room should contain all the ironing machinery, mangles, body irons, 
ironing boards, clothes hangers and horses, with a large substantially 
made table near the mangle. 

The sorting room should contain a large table or counter for sorting 
and specially planned compartments for nurses,' inmates,' doctors' 
and helpers' clothing. These must be sufficiently large and plainly 
marked with a name plate into which a card can be slipped. This 
is perhaps the neatest method in places where inmates are continually 
changing. 

The receiving room, or room for soiled clothes, should contain 
suitable receptacles for the various kinds of soiled linen as they are 
brought in. Large, square hardwood, zinc or metal-lined boxes 



1910] Equipment for the Institutional Laundry 547 

afford the neatest method. If these are on wheels they can be trans- 
ported from place to place. 

There should always be a suitable dressing-room with toilet accom- 
modations. This should be fitted with a hanging strip and hooks. 
A roomy closet for brooms, brushes, and stepladders, also one for laun- 
dry supplies, such as soap, starch, soda, or better still, bins of hard 
wood with hinged covers and with a capacity of one or more barrels, 
make a much tidier way of keeping suppHes than having to store 
three or four barrels, as the latter take up considerable room and are 
always untidy. The bins can be placed along the wall in the ironing 
or wash room and fitted with locks. The principal objection to 
closets is the difficulty in keeping them clean. 

It is not uncommon to see the entire laundry equipment in one large 
room without any partitions. If such a room is used, the machinery 
can be quite as conveniently arranged but does not look quite so well. 
Occasionally two or more stories are used. In such case a lift is a 
necessity. It matters not so much as to the floor plan, the important 
point is to arrange the machinery conveniently so as to save time and 
steps. 

List of machinery.— Y or an institution of two hundred beds ap- 
proximately the following equipment is needed: 

2 washers (wooded) 100 shirt capacity. 
I tumbler or shaker. 

1 26 inch extractor. 

2 sectional cabinet dryers. 

I mangle, (100 inch,) with return apron. 

I body ironer. 

4 ironing boards with individual gas stoves or electric irons. 

I engine, 12 horse power, horizontal. 

I motor. 

I starch kettle, steam jacketed. 

I starch table, zinc top. 

I copper soap tank, 40 gal. 

6 set tubs. 

I clock. 

I truck for wet goods. 

4 ten-bushel baskets fitted with trucks. 

1 large substantial table for sorting goods from the mangle. 

Several hard-wood clothes horses with casters for sorting goods ready for the 

mangle. 
Several horses for drying goods ironed by hand. 
4 hardwood bins for storing supplies. 

2 wall closets for engineer's supplies and blueing. 



548 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

The approximate cost for the above is about $2,000. A floor space 
of 40 X 60 feet will be required. 

This estimate will serve as a basis upon which to figure. The equip- 
ment can be varied to suit the needs of the institution, and increase 
as the institution demands. 

The loo-inch return apron mangle is a great labor saver. The 
return apron requires only two workers, passing a sheet through 
single or open, and bringing it back perfectly dry. It thus does away 
with the necessity for airing, thereby saving time and steps, as a sheet 
can be used at once on a bed. The entire surface of the heated 
cylinder is utilized, therefore there is no waste of heat or ironing sur- 
face. Time is also saved as the workers stand to feed and receive in 
the same place. The saving is particularly large on small goods, as 
three workers can kept be busy at the mangle. 

In regard to body ironers, it is sometimes difficult to get help to 
use them or to find capable workers. Some small institution laundries 
do not install them, but use very generally the Toof Jumbo iron for 
large surfaces. Personally, the writer believes in the body ironer. 
If properly used if gives excellent results as to finish. It is very 
easily learned and with a little patience and encouragement a worker 
will become quite skillful in a few days. 

A great deal could be said about the use and care of these various 
pieces of machinery, and a few words seem essential. Great cleanli- 
ness is very important; the machinery must be kept clean and free 
from dust and superfluous grease and oil. The mangle and ironing 
sheets must be clean and free from dust, lint or starch. All machinery 
should be covered with special sheets when not in use. It must be kept 
in perfect order and repair and carefully oiled. Valves and joints must 
be kept tight, otherwise steam will be lost. Water faucets must be 
tight and the most economical method of heating water devised, 
otherwise time, coal, steam and water will be wasted. 

Great care should be exercised in arranging a careful system as to 
washing, extracting, etc., otherwise quantities of linen may be ruined. 

Good "help" and good wages are economical in the end. Ignorant 
employees are not only unsatisfactory but a great extravagance. 

Careful rules and regulations should be introduced and lived up to. 
All avenues of waste should be carefully watched and controlled. 

The more time and thought sjicnt in studying the laundry question 
in our institutions, the greater the satisfaction and the keener the 
pleasure derived from turning out carefully cleaned, well finished 
linen at the least expense and outlay of time, strength and money. 



19 lo] The Laundry as a Commercial Enterprise 549 

The Laundry as a Commercial Enterprise. 

Jane Seymour Klink. 
Welfare Manager, Pilgrim Steam Laundry Company, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

To run any business requires business training and experience — 
a practical knowledge of practical affairs, a comprehension of the 
credit system, a capacity for organization, an administrative ability 
in directing affairs and managing men, an insight into detail, and at 
the same time a breadth of vision large enough to take in the whole. 
If one has any talent it needs to be cultivated. Perhaps the talent 
for laundry work needs more cultivation than others. Nevertheless, 
if a woman wished to engage in the business of running a laundry, 
the important question would be "Can I make it pay?" 

Every one wants clean clothes and the laundry work is being taken 
more and more from the home. The initial cost of the plant is com- 
paratively small, the labor being the greatest item to be considered. 
It might seem that women would be particularly fitted to set and 
maintain a standard of good laundering because of the long experience 
which they as a class have had in that occupation. 

If a woman intends to go into the laundry business, has she, first 
of all, the ability to manage people, has she mastered the secret of 
making men and women not only work, but want to work? Many 
of the operations in laundering are classed among the unskilled trades, 
and in the fringe of workers who go from one of these unskilled occu- 
pations to another there is not always a marked tendency to work; 
in fact, if they are eager for a position, they seldom display the same 
eagerness for work. Has the woman the patience to train them into 
skilled workers? Has she the masterfulness necessary to overcome 
petty jealousies, reprove dawdling, weed out those who "soldier," 
in short, to organize her help into a practical working force where each 
one does his or her part with ever-increasing efficiency? 

Next, has the would-be manager of a laundry clearly in mind a 
standard of excellence in the work? It is not enough to wash clothes, 
iron them, and send them home safe. There are many people in the 
laundry business who are doing that. The clothes must be washed 
a little better than any one else's or there must be an attempt to excel 
in some other particular thing. For instance, there was a young 
banker who never had the neck-bands of his shirts ironed to suit 
him. Finally, becoming exasperated, he decided that he would start 



55° The Journal of Home Economics [November 

a laundry of his own and see if he could not have those neck-bands 
right. That was, perhaps, five years ago. He is still in the banking 
business, but three large, flourishing steam laundries bear witness to 
the fact that his standard in neckbands and everything else is high. 

To the woman contemplating a laundry business, then, I say, "If 
you can find some one thing that you think can be improved upon, and 
you know you can improve it, try that." For instance, if a laundry 
was started to do fine work in the best posssible manner, making a 
specialty of washing infants' clothes, old ladies' caps, fine lace, deli- 
cate underwear, in addition to the regular work, doing all these things 
well and reasonably, there would be a place for such a laundry in any 
large city. 

In the laundry business there are no "tricks in the trade." It is 
clean, straightforward work, and for that very reason should be a 
paying business for a straightforward woman, provided she has the 
business capacity. But it means work. There are a thousand 
matters to claim her attention. A knowledge of practical chemistry 
is of the greatest value. The chemistry of soaps, colors, bleaches, 
materials, bluings, must be worked out daily and hourly. Absolute 
cleanhness is a positive necessity, and no pure food law demands 
more rigorous enforcement than does the law that soap, starch and 
water must be of the highest standard — never causing speck or stain. 

One department of a well-regulated laundry, which is as much a 
part of the business as the washing or the starch department, is the 
welfare deportment. This should be on an economic basis, with the 
distinct understanding that what is of benefit to the employee must 
be of benefit to the employer, because both are engaged in the common 
furtherance of a common work. 

The welfare manager may not know the kind of starch used, or its 
proportions, but she must know what kind of work the employee is 
doing with the starch. She knows whether the employee is falling 
below her usual standard, and if so, the seeks to discover and remove 
the cause of her failure. On the other hand, she watches to see whether 
that same employee, not knowing her strength, overtaxes herself 
when she should not do so. She may not be able to turn out a per- 
fectly ironed shirt, but if the shirt be not perfectly ironed, it is her 
business first, to know why it is not done properly, and then to see 
what can be done to improve and encourage the employee who has 
slighted her task. It may be that hasty breakfasts or hurried lunches 
have caused indigestion, therefore the welfare manager takes pains 



19 1 o] Linen Standards for Hospitals 551 

to have that employee eat a good luncheon, which is provided in the 
plant at a nominal cost. 

It is not that good work is demanded, as it were, but rather that 
each employee is led to feel that she cannot in honesty give anything 
else, whether for her own sake, for her companions' sake, or for the 
firm's sake, because they are all parts of the same thing. For instance, 
if she stays away others have to do her work, so that a regard for 
them should bring her in even if her incHnation be otherwise. Now 
"solum nobis" is the the motto of the Pilgrim plant, and each one 
tries in greater or less degree to live up to it. Increase of wages comes 
whenever, in the opinion of the managing force, it is deserved, and 
faithful, loyal service brings its own reward in the matter of dollars 
and cents as well as in each worker's satisfaction in doing efl&cient, 
effective work. The idea is to educate each employee up to the 
highest level of efficiency, because the better work of each makes the 
more perfect work of all, the little saved by each makes the much 
saved by all, the profit to each gives the greatest gain to all. 



Suggested Linen Standards for Hospitals . 

Louise Powell. 

Superintendent of Training School for Nurses, University of Minnesota 

Hospital. 

[Miss Powell's careful paper, while based entirely on research work 
in connection with hospitals, contains several passages which should 
be of interest to anyone in charge of an institution household. Since 
it is not feasible to print the whole paper such selections have been 
made as seem to be of the greatest general value. — Ed.] 

There is probably no department in a hospital, whether large or 
small, concerning the administration of which there is greater variety 
of opinion and less uniformity of system, than the linen room. 

Very few hospitals, I find, are prepared to furnish estimates of the 
standards in use in their wards, very many have no standards. There 
is a striking difference in the amounts considered necessary and ade- 
quate by the various superintendents. 

In arriving at a standard for tea towels and glass towels, a plan 
was adopted in our hospital which has been tried and found satis- 



552 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

factory. To each department using these towels, seven are given. 
These the maid must wash out every day, and at the end of the week 
they are sent to the laundry, a fresh set of seven being given to the 
the maid. In this way fourteen towels will supply the maid, they 
can be readily accounted for, and she should always have a supply 
of clean towels. 

If nurses could be made to realize, what is really a fact, that the 
initial cost of providing only one extra sheet and one extra pillow-case 
for each bed in a hospital, let us say, of three hundred and fifty beds, 
would be three hundred dollars, and that the laundering of this extra 
supply would take the time of two people for nine hours a week, 
costing in a year about ninety-five dollars, would they not listen more 
patiently when the person in charge asked that they limit themselves 
to a stated number of these articles? 

I am strongly of the opinion that if ever} probationer were allowed 
to work several hours a week in the laundry, with the definite purpose 
in view of teaching her and not to save the expense of an extra person 
to the hospital, she would be a more careful nurse in the wards. She 
should sort the soiled clothes, or supervise their sorting, in order to 
see the large number of slightly tumbled but clean articles that come 
to the laundry, and also to see the ragged, torn clothes that nurses 
send down, and the large number of safety pins, which may mean 
destruction to other peoples' clothes and quite frequently injury to 
the hands of the laundry employees. She should sort the clean linen 
to see how important is clear marking and should note the time con- 
sumed in washing, mangling, and folding linen. In addition to this 
she should be taught the cost of each article. 

Buying. — The superintendent will find it interesting and well 
worth while to note the differences in price of the same article in 
different localities, in different quantities, and at retail and wholesale 
prices. Some people advocate buying direct from the factory; others 
deem it wiser to buy through a merchant. Many factories will not 
deal with the consumer, though this varies with the part of the coun- 
try in which one is located. One great advantage in buying from a 
retail merchant is that you can buy practically all your supply from 
one firm, thus saving many letters and many express charges; and by 
getting large quantities, you will probably get a better price. Mer- 
chants as a rule will give good price to hospitals, some having a spe- 
cial salesman whose whole time is employed in taking hospital orders. 
In small places, where the support of the hospital is in part dependent 



iQio] Linen Standards for Hospitals 553 

on the good will and gifts of the people of the town, it would proba- 
bly be good policy to buy supplies through the home merchants, and 
thus enlist their interest for the hospital. 

The prices quoted in the lists given below are of course approximate, 
and would vary much in different localities, with the quantities, and 
always with the market. It is an open question as to whether it is 
cheaper to buy ready-made, or to have articles made in the hospital. 

Repair. — Some small hospitals depend on convalescent patients to 
do the mending of linen. This is not always satisfactory. Very 
often the work is carelessly done, and many times one cannot wait 
for sewing to be done in that way. A small hospital may find that 
to have a seamstress come for a few days at a time is all it needs, or 
can afford. Some large hospitals have one woman who spends all her 
time mending ; others have the whole force of seamstresses mend linen 
for two or three days, after exchange days, and spend the rest of 
their time making various articles. 

The system of exchange of worn linen as now in vogue in most of 
the hospitals investigated seems a waste of everybody's time. If 
the sewing room where repairing is done is connected with the laundry, 
there seems to be no reason why torn linen should go to the wards. 
It would be perfectly "practicable, and it is done in some hospitals, to 
have torn articles as they come from the mangles thrown into a 
basket, thus saving one folding. These articles can be inspected and 
either mended or discarded by the person in charge of the linen, who, 
being responsible for it, is much more careful about what is discarded 
than the nurses would be. There is undoubtedly much waste caused 
by the tearing up in the wards of linen shghtly torn, which could 
have been repaired and if not fit for use in the wards have been used 
in some other part of the institution. This method of repair would 
save the time and strength that is consumed daily in the wards in 
getting out a piece of linen, unfolding it, possibly far from the Hnen 
shelf, finding it torn, and ha\ang to replace it with another, which 
many times is just as bad. 

Store-rooms. — There must be in every hospital a certain reserve 
supply of linen. In the room where this supply is kept, there should 
be a record of all Unen that has been purchased — the date, quantity, 
quality, samples if necessary, cost, and the name of the place where 
the purchase was made. There should also be a record of all articles 
given out, whether new or in exchange, and to what part of the 
hospital. It would be helpful if a record could be kept of the exact 



554 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

measurements of all articles made in the hospitals, as this would 
insure uniformity of size throughout the institution. 

Distribution. — There are two methods of distribution of linen in use 
in hospitals to-day, the ward linen-room and the central distributing 
linen-room. In the majority of the hospitals investigated the ward 
linen-room method is still in use. There the linen for each ward 
comes from the laundry and is there re-folded and put away. In some 
hospitals there is placed in each ward linen-room a correct list of the 
articles of linen that have been allowed to that ward — its standard, 
in fact. This list tallies with a list which is in the inventory book in 
the ofl&ce of the superintendent of nurses. Systematic reference to 
this list will very quickly show when articles are missing, and it is 
found that the linen standard is more easily kept up with than if the 
list were not there. 

Much time and strength could be saved in the wards if a little 
attention were given to training the people in the laundry to fold the 
linen properly. Would not a systematic placing of the articles on 
the shelves, having articles of one size in one place, and that place 
plainly labelled, also save time? 

The ward Hnen-room method of distribution undoubtedly encour- 
ages extravagance in the use of linen in our wards. When there is a 
supply of linen at hand of which no account must be given, there is 
a great temptation to use it freely. 

The central distributing linen-room is beginning to attract the 
attention of our superintendents. By this I mean one linen-room in 
which all the linen sent from the laundry is kept, and from there is 
distributed daily to the different departments, except, perhaps, to 
the operating department. 

There are two ways in which this plan might be followed. When the 
method is first being inaugurated, each ward could be given a full 
supply for two days, it then being required that a soiled piece should 
be returned for each clean piece given out daily. 

Another way would be to have the head nurse each day make a 
requisition for the amount of linen she will need for twenty-four 
hours. Men and trucks would be needed to do this distributing in 
a large hospital, but the same men who now deliver from the laundry 
to the wards might deliver from the linen-room instead. In tliis way 
may be prevented, what will oftentimes occur, an accumulation of 
linen in wards where the service is fluctuating, and utter emptiness 
in those that have a constant, heavy service. It means a more equal 



igio] Linen Standards for Hospitals 555 

distribution, and for that reason, a smaller supply. By this system 
a decided saving of time and ink in marking could be effected. If 
linen is distributed from one place each day to the wards, it would be 
only necessary to mark the linen with the name of the hospital and 
the date. 

The supply of linen must be somewhat influenced by the length 
of time the linen remains in the laundry. Obviously, if the linen is 
returned every day, the supply may be smaller than when it is returned 
only twice or three times a week. The wear and tear on linen that 
is being so constantly laundered, however, must be considered. Some 
people feel that a larger supply will not insure the less frequent laun- 
dering of articles, for in a busy hospital there is little time to arrange 
for putting to-day's linen at the bottom of the pile. If there is a large 
supply, it will probably all be used. 

A record of the number of articles lost in the laundry would be 
interesting. This is kept in some hospitals, the number sent out and 
the number returned being recorded. At the end of the year it is 
quite startling to see how much linen disappears, apparently in this 
way. I say apparently, because it must be remembered that many 
different people count the linen, and absolute accuracy cannot be 
guaranteed. 

The following lists give estimates of the amount and cost of linen 
and other equipment required for a ward bed, and of the require- 
ments in the nurses' and convalescents' homes: 

Cost and Maintenance of One Ward Bed. 

Institution spring bedstead $ 7. 00 

I 30 lb. hair mattress 12 .00 

I 3 lb. feather pillow i . 80 

I 2I lb. hair pillow i . 00 

1 mattress protector i .02 

2 spreads, dimity, @ $1.35 2 . 70 

3 blankets @ $3.50 per pair 5.25 

6 sheets, 108" x 72" @ 85 cents each 5.10 

6 sheets (draw) 54" x 90" @ 60 cents each 3 . 60 

6 pillow cases 45" x 35" @ 18 cents each i .08 

4 towels @ 1 7 cents each .68 

2 towels, bath, ©25 cents each .50 

4 gowns @ 58 cents each 2.32 

Total $44-05 



556 



The Journal of Home Economics 
Nurse's Home, Linen List. 



[November 



NUMBER REQUIRED. 



Nurses. 



Help. 



Articles per person 

Blankets 

Bureau CO vers 

Mattress covers 

KUow cases 

Sheets 

Spreads 

Towels, face 

Towels, bath 

Articles per loo persons 
Covers, serving table 

Cloths, dust 

Cloths, floor 

Table cloths 

Table napkins 

Towels, dish 

Towels, glass 

Towels, kitchen 

Towels, lavatory. . . . 
Towels, roller 



2 double 2 double 



4 
4 

2 

6 

2 

25 

4 per maid 
4 per maid 
6o 
400 
14 per maid 
14 per maid 
14 per maid 
14 per lav. 
24 



4 
4 

IX 

4 



72"x84" 

72"x36" 
4S"X36" 
99"x72" 
84 "x" 



$3-5o-$5oo per pair 

1.02I-1 .22 
.18 up 
.Soup 
•75 up 
.17 up 
.25 up 



Linen Lis!, Convalescents' Home. 



ARTICLES. 


NUMBER 

REQUIRED FOR 

30 BEDS. 


ARTICLES. 


NUMBER 

REQUIRED FOR 

30 BEDS. 




90 

ISO 

30 
1 20 


Towels, bath 


90 
150 




Towels, face 


Mattress covers 


Towels, glass 


10 




Towels, roller 


25 
40 


Sheets 


180 
60 


Towels, tea 


Spreads 


Wash cloths 


90 


Table napkins 


150 





igio] Discussion of Laundries 557 

Discussion on Laundries. 

Location. — Basement laundries are usually objectionable, especially 
in cities, because of lack of air and light. They are less so in the 
country if the windows are high and well above ground. If there are 
living and sleeping rooms above there may be unpleasant odors, 
vibration from machinery, and inflammable conditions. Massachusetts 
requires a certain number of cubic feet of air per person for health 
conditions. One basement laundry has been instanced where arti- 
ficial ventilation gave air that was washed and cooled. No windows 
were open, yet the air was pure and cool all the time. 

There are also objections to laundries and kitchens on top floors. 
While this does away with back door conditions, stealing, and loss 
of time, and the supervision is usually better, it is expensive in oper- 
ation. Machinery can be placed on piers or pads as in laboratories 
but this also is expensive. 

One hotel in Rochester has moved its laundry from basement to 
roof, however, and would on no account go back to the basement. 

In considering locations, we must separate country and city condi- 
tions. A site for a building 30 x 40 ft. in Wall Street would cost 
$600,000 and mean S4000 a day in interest. Cities must use base- 
ments and applied science must make them livable. The responsi- . 
bility is to the ultimate consumer. 

Wellesley College Laundry. — When Wellesley College had to face 
the necessity for a new laundry, with no funds, a number of the 
faculty and trustees formed a stock company and built a model laundry 
costing about $30,000. As a business proposition the Waban Laundry 
Association pays. On account of steam, noise, vibration, etc., it 
was thought more desirable to have it a one story building and it is 
practically a basement though the windows are high and run to the 
ceiling. It has a sunny exposure, a south-east and south-west receiv- 
ing room, so arranged that clean clothes do not come in contact with 
soiled clothes, and there is no passing of employees through rooms 
where they have no business. It does the work for over 1000 
students, besides faculty and help, and is equipped with improved 
machinery throughout. 

The college president is a stockholder, as are also the vice president 
and the Sunshine laundry heads. Miss Davis, the director of the 
residence halls, is president, and takes an active interest; she keeps in 
touch with all the work, sometimes taking her place at the mangle 



558 TJte Journal of Home Economics [November 

in working out experiments and time costs. Prices are lower than 
in usual city laundries, yet it pays. 

There are sixteen halls of residence. Table clothes are changed three 
times a week and the students have three napkins a week. The 
laundry manager is paid a professor's salary, and the whole enterprise 
is on a dignified basis. 

The laundry business is fascinating, with its piles of evenly folded, 
beautifully polished clean linen. It is a field for well trained, educated 
women. Two Girton girls manage the best laundry in Dublin, 
and it is no new thing in England to give instruction in laundry .'/ork. 

The modern commercial laundry injures linen seriously. There 
is no real need of this with right conditions such as prevail in the 
Sunshine Laundry but prices are very high there and above the reach 
of most families. The greatest problem is so to reduce the cost that 
public laundries may be of use to the average family having no do- 
mestic service in the home. 

The New England ELitchen averages 2000 pieces of flat wash a 
day and pays $400 a month for laundry work. Taking the first cost 
of the linen plus the cost of keeping it clean, the wear and tear, invest- 
ment, interest, etc., it is still cheaper to send to a' commercial laundry 
and let it wear out than to do it by hand. On the other hand, it would 
cost Wellesley College Sio,ooo a year to put out its flat work. 

Commercial laundries usually charge by the hundred for flat work, 
lumping large and small pieces together. Others ask from 3 to 4 cents 
apiece for long table cloths, I5 cents for towels, and 30 cents perioo 
for 2 1 -inch napkins. The average rate per 100 is $1.50. 

A Chicago restaurant manager says that even if he has to replace 
his linen twice as often he will still be better off than to run his own 
laundry. 

To the question, Why not make a laundry like that at Wellesley 
a laboratory for training others, as in nurse's training schools? Miss 
Davis answered that they could take a few students as workers, side 
by side with other workers, but that with careful work and fifty em- 
ployees to consider, they could not for a moment think of taking any 
number or a whole class, as they would be asking all kinds of ques- 
tions all the time. 

There is much literature on laundry subjects in some German 
periodicals, especially studies of soaps and the wear and tear of linen. 
There is a laundry journal published in Cincinnati, The Starchroom. 



19 1 o] Service in Institutional Households 559 

Note on Paper on Organization of Service in Institutional Households. 

The paper presented by Miss Alice Patterson, of Mt. Holyoke 
College, we are unable to publish at this time owing to the fact that 
it is still incomplete. It embodies some results of several weeks of 
study made by a student in the Department of Household Adminis- 
tration, Teachers College, New York City. 

The study was undertaken with the view of determining the amount 
of time required by an expert worker to perform certain tasks in the 
daily work of the household, with particular reference, of course, 
to institutions. That division of the household which comprises 
bedrooms, bathrooms, halls and stairways was selected, the student 
spending some hours daily for a period of several weeks in observing 
and recording accurately the exact time spent by employees in the 
performance of different parts of their work. An endeavor was made 
to ascertain, for instance (a) the actual time taken to make a bed; 

(b) the actual time required to properly clean a room; and (c) how 
many rooms can be cared for in a given number of hours. 

Further aspects of the study included (a) a consideration of the 
character and amount of furniture in the room and its position in rela- 
tion to floor space- (b) the habits of the occupant of the room; and 

(c) the quality and character of the work done by the employee and 
the general standards of such work in the institution. Five college 
and school dormitories, widely varying in type, were selected, and 
through the courtesy of the heads of these dormitories, an opportunity 
for careful study of the problem was accorded to the investigator. 

A field of extremely interesting and profitable study was discovered. 
Ideas as to the amount of work which could be accomplished within 
a given time varied greatly in the different institutions. The number 
of rooms assigned to each employee ranged from fifteen to thirty, 
or even more, The time allotment for certain grades of work and 
standards of work varied so greatly as to make quite clear, even from 
this brief and incomplete study, the necessity for prolonged and scien- 
tific study of the situation. 

Of course many factors will have to be considered — the training 
of the employee, her skill and intelligence ; the character of furnish- 
ings and decoration, whether simple or elaborate, and the consequent 
amount of labor required ; the way in which the work is organized and 
directed and the amount of supervision and inspection given — all 
of these factors have a direct bearing upon the situation and will 
need to be carefully studied. 



560 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

This partial study was also made of but one division of the house- 
hold work, and could and should be extended to all other depart- 
ments, such as kitchens, dining-rooms, laundries, and so on. Until 
some such careful, systematic study extending over a considerable 
period is made, the question of standardizing household labor as it 
is standardized in the manufacturing and industrial world cannot pro- 
gress rapidly. We regret that this study of one of the divisions of 
the household is not yet sufficiently complete for publication, but 
trust to be able to present it in a later number. 



ARCHITECTURE IN RELATION TO ADMINISTRATION. 

Architecture in its Relation to Institution Administration. 

Henry Wilhelm Wilkinson. 

Architect, New York City. 

I grew up in a great house in the country which was built by my 
father and was the apple of his eye. It seemed to all of us children a 
perfect house. The rooms were large and well proportioned and it 
was beautifully finished. It was cool in summer and warm in an 
arctic climate in winter — a perfect house. I remember with what a 
shock of surprise the first warning came to me that I must not admire 
it unreservedly. I recall when my mother first said, "Well, I never 
liked this house." It seemed to me sacrilegious, and it was only as 
I became older that I realized why my mother never liked it, that it 
had grave faults. All the stairs, though wide and easy, were dark; 
the kitchen was too large, the refrigerator window had been blocked 
by the billiard room addition, and had been made a side door to the 
billiard room, so that the refrigerator was always in the dark. I 
remember, too, that what was death to the refrigerator was life to the 
billiard room. From the point of view of every one but the house- 
keeper it was perfect, but she found that it was difficult to keep 

house in. 

The old house burned in the summer of 1890 and a new house, in 
which the errors of the old were corrected, was built when I was a 
boy architect. The pendulum swung the other way: The stairs were 
ablaze with natural and artificial light; the refrigerator had a window 
all to itself. In the old house there were twelve bed rooms and only 
two bath rooms, for plumbing pipes were considered dangerous. The 
question when we built the new house was, "How many bath rooms 
should there be?" not "how/ew.?" 

The problems which are to be studied in buildings for institutions 
are the same that we have in our houses. In the kinds of buildings 
of which I myself have made a special study, and of which there are 
five classes — club houses, apartments, hospitals, schools, and dormi- 

561 



562 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

tories — we find domestic questions which must be worked out on a 
larger or more complicated scale. The house is the unit always. 
I might say that the house plan is the seed from which all kinds of 
different plans spring. In the club house we have to solve the house 
problem in a more public manner. In the apartment we have a con- 
geries of houses fitted in together with a community of interests, and 
cooperation is the word for successful planning. In the hospital we 
have a specialized house. There is such a close connection between 
the private house and the hospital that I once designed a country 
house with an isolation room for contagious diseases and an operating 
room if by chance one of the children should have appendicitis. The 
usual ratio between the dining room and the kitchen is different. 
There are fewer li\dng rooms and many more guest rooms in the 
hospital. In fact the whole idea of the hospital is still the idea of the 
house in which the problem is how best to entertain most interesting 
guests. In the college or school dormitory we have again a special- 
ized house. In the man's college dormitory, for instance, there are 
usually nothing but guest rooms. 

How are you going to study an architectural problem when your 
advice is asked ? Most plans of buildings that you may have to deal 
with may be considered from the house point of view and from the 
domestic point of view. Working from this as a start, instead of being 
worried (as one may very well be when his advice is asked, and, as 
I confess, I very often am, even after twenty years' experience in 
planning), you will go back to the house as a starting point and just 
build up from the knowledge that each of us has about a house, what 
you will need. 

I will put a concrete case — of a concrete building perhaps. Suppose, 
for instance, a certain Miss A is at the head of May Hall, one of the 
normal school dormitories at Framingham. Suppose a new dormitory 
is about to be built and the trustees ask Miss A for her ideas as to 
what this new building should be. The architect should have cer- 
tain facts from Miss A in order to get the best results. First, 
how large is the building to be? How many girls must it hold? 
Are there to be forty, sixty, or eighty? Will there be two girls 
in a room, or will each girl have a room alone? How are the 
toilet arrangements to correspond with the bed rooms? How many 
baths will be allotted to how many bed rooms? In connection with 
the sleeping rooms and the bath rooms there will be, of course, linen 
rooms, rooms for extra bedding, the trunk room and housemaids' 



19 lo] Architecture and Institution Administration 563 

closets. These develop other questions: How are the trunks to be 
carried in and out? Are the servants to sleep in the building? 

On what floor will Miss A, who is to live in the building, have her 
own suite of rooms? What will be the size of the drawing room? 
Will it be used for dances and theatricals? Shall there be a stage? 
How many people will come to a reception there? What do the girls 
do in the evening? How about arrangements for music in the build- 
ing? What are Miss A's ideas about open fires, piazzas? How large 
will the dining room be? Will the forty girls sit at four large tables, 
or eight small tables? Will there be a teacher at each table? Will 
there be rooms for teachers in the building? Will the girls wait on 
themselves? If not, how many servants are needed, and how will 
all the many conveniences of the serving room be arranged most 
economically? 

As for the kitchen, I should like to talk with Miss A for hours. 
Whenever I have a large kitchen to design, I am always appalled by 
my lack of intimate knowledge of what goes on in the kitchen. I 
know about linen closets and broom closets and butler's pantries a 
great deal better than most housekeepers. I have had experience 
gained from one hundred or two hundred different sources, and know 
what two hundred ■ different women have wanted in their butler's 
pantries, but in the beginning the problem of a great kitchen seems 
to me an almost insoluble riddle. I want Miss A's ideas about 
vegetable and soup kettles, how often she has to have her soup kettle 
retinned and how much it would cost. How large a range and what 
kind will suit her best, and will she want a gas attachment and a 
charcoal broiler? How about the dish-washing sinks? Is the usual 
wooden hotel sink the one she likes? Will she need a dish washer, if 
she can have it? Of course I know that Miss A will have to buy her 
stores in bulk to keep house economically, and therefore her store 
rooms must be ample, but how large? And what about the refrigera- 
tors? 

I have now gone over the main items which will come under Miss 
A's management, but of course I will talk over with her the question 
of heating, too. If there is no central heating plant as at Framing- 
ham, how much coal will it take to run the building? Would Miss 
A like a two-, three- or four-story house best? 

If the trustees are wise, they will certainly put the architect in 
close touch with the superintendent, but Miss A may have been allowed 
to make no suggestions as to the exterior. There she may have been 



564 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

turned down hard, knowing that her practical training does not 
include architecture. It is the supposition, of course, that the exterior 
of the building will be designed in one of the recognized architectural 
styles. 

I have found to my real sorrow that people do not care to know 
about architecture. They do not take it seriously. In the first place 
the locality, the neighbors of the new house, the site, the amount of 
money to be spent must be taken into consideration, and all these 
together with the best possible style to express the building. That 
building exteriorly is the best building, which best expresses the pur- 
pose for which it is used. 

A Study of Floor Materials. 
Jessie C. Saunders. 

Teachers College, Columbia University, New York. 

The natural materials commonly used for floors are marble, slate 
and wood. 

Marble is expensive, $i.ioi or more a square foot, but wears well 
and is easily cared for. Slate is less expensive, 75 cents a square 
foot, and is frequently used for stairs. The soft woods used for floors 
are cheaper than hard woods but do not make durable or beautiful 
floors. The slash of soft woods, that is, boards made from the middle 
part of full width boards, where the annual layers are parallel to the 
surface of the board, should never be used for floors, shelves or table 
tops, as it is apt to splinter. Rift boards are cut from the two outer 
portions of a full width board and will wear much better than slash 
as the annual layers are not parallel to the surface of the board. Plain 
wood floors and many parquetry floors are made of tongued and 
grooved |-inch stuff. 

Wood carpeting, another form of parquetry flooring, is made of 
|-inch stuff glued to a stout canvas, and thoroughly nailed to the 
under flooring. Such a floor is said to wear very satisfactorily and 
gives as much depth of wood for actual wear as does ordinary flooring 
above the tongue. Parquetry veneer is J-inch stuff and cannot be 
recommended. There are several patented systems of wood flooring 

^New York City prices are given throughout. 



iQio] A Study of Floor Materials 565 

using blocks or small pieces of wood and depending on some patented 
device to secure the upper floor to the under floor. 

An ordinary under floor of common North Carolina pine will cost 
about 8 cents a square foot. Laid on this the upper floor of North 
Carolina comb grained pine will cost 11 cents a square foot; of Georgia 
comb grained pine 13 cents; of maple 14 cents; of birch 15 cents; and 
of oak 17 cents. The wood carpeting costs 27 cents a square foot 
and parquetry flooring of f-inch stuff 42 cents. Of the patented 
floors a Rochester firm lays an oak floor for 38 cents a square foot and 
two New York City concerns for 50 and 60 cents respectively. These 
woodblock floors wear well, present a good appearance and have been 
laid in many government buildings, in some of Boston's public schools, 
in armories and, occasionally in hospitals. They are not satisfactory for 
dancing floors because of the continuous changing of the grain of the 
wood. 

If a wood floor is used without treating the surface in some way, 
it soon becomes very unsightly and more or less unsanitary. The dust 
is fairly ground into the pores of the wood. Washing is small help 
for this only removes the dirt from the surface, while the water soaks 
into the fiber, causing the wood to swell and shrink alternately, to 
splinter, to decay gradually and to become dark and unevenly dis- 
colored. Moreover moisture is one of the conditions favoring the 
growth of bacteria, and the combination of soapy water and dirt 
which inevitably settles in the cracks between boards and around the 
bottom of the baseboard furnishes a medium for the growth of bacteria 
and insect eggs. Also, the floor is not only subject to hard wear, but 
it is fundamentally prominent as an element in the character of the 
room. If it is not treated as such, it strikes a discordant note that 
cannot be ignored or forgotten. The term commonly used expresses 
the fact:— the floor needs to be ''finished." 

To keep the floor from undue wear and to have sanitary and at the 
same time beautiful wood floors demands that they be covered with 
some protecting material. This may be done by using oil, shellac, 
varnish, a spirit varnish, or wax. 

In her book, Home Economics, Miss Maria Parloa recommends using 
pure boiled linseed oil thinned with from one-quarter to one-half as 
much turpentine or alcohol. This must be rubbed in well; on new 
floors it should be used hot that it may sink in better, and after an 
hour polished with a woolen cloth. If the polishing is not done dust 
will adhere to the floor. Miss Parloa states that " such floors are not 



566 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

easily soiled and they retain their luster and softness for years." 
She also states that this dressing can be used to advantage on a painted 
floor, on linoleum and oilcloth, but that the polishing must be given 
else dust will adhere, and on painted or varnished floor a cloudy 
appearance will be seen in a day or two. How often the treatment 
must usually be renewed is not stated. Oiled floors as commonly 
seen are not polished. 

Shellac is often adulterated with resin, a more brittle gum, so that 
shellaced floors scratch badly. For ordinary household use it needs 
renewing every six months. 

Varnish is also subject to adulteration but when good it makes a 
thin hard coating over the floor, bringing out and preserving the grain 
of the wood, protecting the surface from wear and rendering it more 
nearly sanitary. Two or three coats are necessary each requiring 
twenty-four hours to dry. In ordinary use it needs to be renewed 
yearly. 

A spirit or alcohol varnish, called Farrington Floor Finish, has 
lately been put on the market. It is only adapted to hard woods but 
it dries in an hour and gives a much more moderate gloss than does 
varnish. 

Waxes are of little use on soft woods. Two coats of wax may be 
used as a complete finish for a new hardwood floor. In ordinary 
household use such a floor should need nothing for a year except 
monthly polishing with the weighted brush and occasional retouching 
with wax in any worn spots. The next year's waxing can be done 
without removing the old wax. Or one coat of wax may be rubbed 
on top of shellac, varnish or spirit varnish, thus keeping this first 
protection from wearing off, neutralizing its too high gloss and mak- 
ing it possible to patch the spots that wear off. A sort of liquid wax 
called Waxene, a Boston product, can be used on a bare floor or as a 
finish over shellac or varnish, though it does not seem "to patch" 
so well as does hard wax. 

Which is the most desirable method of finishing wood floors? Oil 
may not collect dust if polished, but it will undoubtedly darken the 
wood in the course of a few years. It is the cheapest treatment as 
to first cost. As frequency of renewal is not stated by Miss Parloa 
the up-keep cost is undetermined, but would be mainly for labor. 
Spirit varnish does not scratch as easily as do shellac and ordinary 
varnish, but all three wear off in spots, cannot be patched, and should 
be entirely cleaned off before a new coat is put on a flt)or. Thoy do, 



iQio] A Study of Floor Materials 567 

however, protect a floor momentarily from a chemical or anything 
hot or greasy spilled on it, and render a wood floor as sanitary as it 
can be so long as they are in perfect condition. The difficulty with 
shellac and varnish is that they begin to wear off immediately the 
floor is used and worn spots cannot be patched by applying more 
shellac or varnish. Shellac costs $1.50 to $2.00 per gallon and floor 
varnish from $2.25 to $3.50. The number of square feet that can be 
covered with a gallon will differ in accordance with the condition and 
kind of wood and the liberality in applying. Wax does not scratch and 
though it will wear off in spots, it can be patched perfectly. It pro- 
tects the surface of the wood from general wear, but not from any- 
thing spilled upon it ; it brings out the grain of the wood and makes a 
wood floor as nearly sanitary as possible. It costs rather less per 
hundred square feet than does varnish. To protect a wood floor as 
thoroughly as possible — also any stain, if such should be desired on 
a floor, — first put on a shellac, varnish, or the new spirit varnish, — 
preferably two coats. Then to prevent the shellac or varnish from 
wearing off in spots, as it surely would, — rub on a coat of hard wax, 
and polish it with a weighted brush. The wax must be renewed in 
spots as often as necessary to keep the under finish from wearing off. 
So treated, the shellac or varnish may be kept intact and no trouble- 
some yearly renewal necessitated. Careful oversight of worn spots 
will be needed, but sanitary and attractive wood floors cannot be 
secured by neglecting them nor by washing them. 

The artificial materials used for floors are in small units constantly 
repeated or in large surfaces. The common penny tiles cost 32 
cents and the 2-inch hexagonal from 38 to 42 cents a square foot. 
Glass tiles are more expensive, $1.00 and $1.25 a square foot, and are 
not much used. Rubber t'les are about 10 per cent rubber and can 
be laid on either cement, concrete or wood providing it is level. They 
cost from $1.00 to $1.15 per square foot, or possibly a little less for a 
large contract. They have been on the market about fifteen years 
and promise to wxar a long time. In elevators they wear out, but are 
subjected there to very hard use. Where one hall joins another the 
rubber tiling sometimes buckles up a little. This is rather expensive 
to repair and the new tiles show. The cost of upkeep in daily clean- 
ing is considerable, as slight soil shows plainly. Halls where there is 
rubber tiling in Roosevelt Hospital, New York City, are washed twice 
daily and three times on visiting days. Rubber tiles are excellent 
for an incline and are very easy to walk on. They have been used 



568 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

in many public and semi-public buildings, railroad terminals and 
ferry-boats. The City Hospital of Akron, Ohio, has rubber tiling 
throughout. 

The artificial materials furnished in large surfaces include linoleum, 
rubber carpeting, monolithic compositions and a new material named 
agosote. The Germans manufacture heavy grades of linoleum, two 
or three times as heavy as is commonly used in America. They are 
using it somewhat in hospitals and on war vessels. A new hospital 
in Frankfort has wide strips of linoleum cemented through the centers 
of the corridors which have colored tiles at either side. Considerable 
colored tile and colored glass has been used in this building with excel- 
lent effect. A new hospital in Fall River is using linoleum through- 
out. Rubber carpeting has been in use for twenty years and can be 
made in sections as large as twelve feet square, or in strips three feet 
wide and of any length. It may be cemented to a level floor and 
wears twenty years or more, and costs from $1.05 to $1.20 per square 
foot. A worn spot can be cut out and repaired, and it is easily 
washed. It is used in many of the Pullman cars, in offices, and public 
buildings. 

There are several styles of monolithic flooring. All alike are laid 
in a plastic condition on the underflooring, either wood or concrete, 
thus making possible coved sanitary bases and corners. They are 
not so heavy, so inelastic, or so cold as are clay tiles and are less 
expensive, costing from 23 to 50 cents a square foot according to the 
manufacturer selected and the size of the contract. If alterations 
involve breaking it, it can be mended and promises to be very endur- 
ing. It will inevitably show cracks if the building settles unevenly. 
Some makes have been on the market fifteen or twenty years. It 
has been used in hospitals, schools, public buildings and private houses. 
The French Hospital in New York City has one of these materials, 
called asbestolith, throughout its halls and wards and is well satisfied 
after six years' use. This particular monolithic material should not 
be washed with soap as the alkah of the soap unites with some ingred- 
ients of the asbestolith and causes it to disintegrate somewhat. In 
the French Hospital the halls and wards are mopped daily; every two 
weeks they are scrubbed by hand, and six times a year they are rubbed 
with crude oil. The head nurse says, "they are easier than tile to care 
for and as good as wood for the nurses' feet." 

Agosote is a new material introduced from England where it has 
been manufactured for twenty-five years. It is made of jiaper and 



iQioJ A Study of Floor Materials 



569 



rags, treated with chemicals, pressed into slabs, treated with an 
emulsion, and again subjected to great pressure. It has been used as 
a substitute for wood panelling in railway coaches all over Europe 
and even in South America, and is now being used for this purpose 
here. It can be painted, grained, varnished and polished to look 
exactly like any variety of wood. It can be kept for any length of 
time m boiling water without disintegrating, and will be thus made 
phable so that it can be pressed into any desired shape, which it will 
retain when dried again. It is thus used for the curved roofs of 
railroad cars. It has some elasticity and may be developed into a 
successful flooring material by the American owners of the patent. 
The Pantasote Company of New York City. 

Of nine hospitals visited, five have pine floors in the wards. In two 
of these, Bellevue and the Presbyterian, they looked clean and attrac- 
tive. Bellevue is a new building, and the ward floors are cared for 
by men who clean with a vacuum cleaner in the morning and polish 
the floors in the afternoon every day. Every two weeks the spots 
are removed and new wax is rubbed on and polished. One man needs 
an entire afternoon to refinish a large twenty-four bed ward. 

At the Presbyterian Hospital the wards are washed with oxalic 
acid and water every three months and then rewaxed with a prepara- 
tion made in the hospital, and consisting of 5 gallons of turpentine, 
20 ounces yellow wax, and 30 ounces parafiin. The waxes are melted 
and the turpentine warmed in a hot water bath and added gradually 
to the melted waxes. To each 5 pints is then added 2 drams of ammonia 
water. It is put on with long handled brushes and must be used hot. 
Five men care for all the floors and are each paid $18.00 a month. 

The wards at the third hospital (Mt. Sinai) are varnished once a 
year necessitating the temporary disuse of each for several days. 
Linoleum is laid all around each ward. When the floors are fresh 
they look fairly well, but soon become more or less dark in spots 
according to the degree of care given by each maid. The floors are 
simply wiped up with a damp cloth each day. 

At the Roosevelt Hospital the wards were stained dark years ago 
and are restained and varnished every year. They are ugly and 
unsatisfactory. At the Hospital for Women, 19 West loist Street, 
the floors have been kept bare and washed for fourteen years. The 
directors are now considering covering them entirely with one of 
the monolithic floor materials. 
The wards at the New York Hospital have floors of German colored 



57© The Journal of Home Economics [November 

tiles, laid thirty years ago. They have been kept in good repair 
at trifling cost. They are washed daily with a green soap solution 
made in the hospital, the maids using scrubbing brushes with long 
handles and also managing a rinsing cloth with a long handle. Patent 
wringers are not popular with these maids. A little hand scrubbing 
is required occasionally for door saddles, base boards and corners. 

At the Sloane Maternity Hospital both German and domestic tiles 
are used and daily scrubbing is necessitated. Some of the tiles have 
a slightly polished surface and are much more easily cleaned. A 
marble floor in the main hall is even more easily kept in order. 

Some wards at the Post-Graduate Hospital have tile and some a 
monolithic material, which is rather dark in color but is easily kept 
clean by mopping. The tiles need to be scrubbed with Sapolio to be 
kept in good order. The 2 -inch hexagonal wear much better than 
the penny tiles, or small hexagonals. Here also they have a few wood 
floors, though not in wards, which had been left bare fifteen years 
and only washed. This year they decided to treat them differently, 
but it was found the wood was so filled with dirt and the boards so 
swelled that nothing at all satisfactory could be accomplished. 

The ninth hospital (French) has monolithic floors in all halls and 
wards and is well satisfied. Of the nine hospitals not one considers 
wood floors desirable. Monolithic floors have been tried in only 
three of the nine, but are found satisfactory. Tiles are recommended 
by the other six. 

Wood floors are least expensive in the first cost, but cost consider- 
able for up-keep. As numerous cracks are eventually inevitable, even 
with the best of care, wood floors are not ideally sanitary. 

Patented monolithic flooring comes next in expense, and for sonie 
makes is really very little more expensive than are the two floorings 
of wood. The cost of up-keep is less than wood and the floors are 
more durable. Clay tiles rank next both for initial expense and for 
up-keep cost, and rubber tiles are still more expensive. 

In public and semi-public buildings wood floors should be avoided 
if possible. Considering the cost of up-keep some of the monolithic 
materials are cheaper than wood at the end of a few years. Wood 
should certainly not be used in halls and corridors. 



iQio] A Stiidy of Floor Materials 571 

DISCUSSION. 

Monolithic floors on factory kitchens for lunch rooms in Buffalo 
have proved a great success, and are used for dancing when these 
rooms are given up to entertainments for employees. 

The Good Roads Commission has experimented with cement mix- 
tures, especially for roads, where they are subject to wear under 
definite conditions and so are thoroughly tested. Where an institu- 
tion is considering laying cement floors it would be wise to consult 
Mr. Logan Waller Page of the Commission (address Office of Public 
Roads, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.). 
His mixture is an original one unless the Romans solved the same 
problem 2000 years ago. 

An asbestolith floor laid over a laundry was disintegrated by the 
heat. It is sometimes laid over wire netting on wood and is very 
beautiful when waxed. 

In answer to the question, "What is the latest method of deaden- 
ing a floor," filling for 2 inches between the joists with saw dust and 
mortar was recommended, doing this both above and below if possible. 
If there is not space, lay strips i inch above the plain floor and fill 
with mortar and saw dust. Asbestos lumber and shingles were also 
suggested as satisfactory but this is hard on tools. It was suggested 
that there should be a committee on such materials, to bring together 
the results of the best construction and experience. 

Floor materials exhibit. — An exhibit of modern floor materials, sent 
from Teachers College, displayed samples from the following firms 

Marbleloid Company, Broadway and 34th Street, New York 
Asbestolith Manufacturing Company, i Madison Avenue, New York 
James G. Wilson Manufacturing Company, 3 West 29th Street, New 
York; I. H. Wiley Waxine Com.pany, Boston; Warren Brothers Com- 
pany, 59 Temple Place, Boston; Nightingale Company, 277 Broadway 
New York; American Encaustic Tiling Company, New York; Wood- 
Mosaic Floor and Lumber Company, Rochester, N. Y. and New 
Albany ,Ind.; J. Percy Day, E. Victoria Street, Westminster, London 
S. W. ; Pantasote Company, 11 Broadway, New York; Goodyear 
Tile and Rubber Company, New York; Mart and Lawton, New York; 
Farrington Company, Metropolitan Tower, New York; Buttle Par- 
quet Floor Company, 607 West 43rd Street, New York ; and Penn- 
sylvania Rubber Company, 1741 Broadway, New York and Jean- 
nette, Penn. 



INSTITUTION ACCOUNTING AND RECORDS. 
An Outline of Accounting lor Institutions. 

William Morse Cole. 

Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University. 

We must recognize at the start- that cost accounting attempts to 
give information that shall guide managers in the solution of three 
sorts of problems: first, how may prices be adjusted to the service 
rendered; second, does the utmost economy prevail in production 
and service, and if that is not found how may one trace the waste; and 
third, had certain work best be performed in their own establish- 
ments. 

As an illustration of the first of these, need arises for some scientific 
method of fixing the prices of rooms in a college dormitory or in a 
hospital, so that the prices paid shall be adjusted to the comparative 
value of the rooms furnished. It may be true, of course, that in 
many cases prices are determined by what in railroading is called 
"charging what the traflfic will bear." Thus, although it would 
normally seem that in some cases a higher price ought to be fixed, 
putting the charge on the same basis as the charges for other services 
such a basis would in reality make the charge prohibitive, and so 
adjustment must be made to that fact. In such a case the price must 
be lower than that which ought ordinarily to be charged, and that 
reduction in price is really of the nature of a rebate. If the accounting 
is serviceable, however, it will make note of both facts — that is, the 
fact that the actual cost of rendering the service is high in that case, 
and the fact that the price charged does not bear the same relation to 
cost that price bears in other cases. Unless the accounting takes note 
of both facts, it fails to tell the truth. 

It is worth while at this point to note what is the purpose of account- 
ing, for commonly a misapprehension prevails. It should be under- 
stood at the outset that accounting has nothing whatever to do with 
questions of policy. The purpose of accounting is to tell about 
business transactions the truth as exactly as it can be learned, and 



572 



19 lo] Accounting for Institutions 573 

the determination of the truth should be without respect to persons, 
prejudices or poHcies. 

It may happen that for reasons of pohcy the price charged for ser- 
vice rendered is lower than the normal price. In a certain hospital 
the prices charged for certain private rooms are really lower than 
on any basis of cost they ought to be. The managers have made 
this arrangement with the distinct purpose of encouraging persons 
of means to come to the hospital for treatment; for they believe that 
the service rendered will be deemed so valuable , and the interest 
aroused in the hospital so great, that these persons will become valu- 
able friends of the institution and that their influence will increase 
subscriptions and endowments. This may or may not be wise policy, 
but good accounting requires that some note shall be taken of the 
fact and that its cost for advertising purposes shall be considered. 

As an illustration of the second sort of problem which cost account- 
ing should help to solve is the economy of laundry work done on 
the spot. If it is found in any institution that the cost for laundry 
is 20 per cent higher than the average of other institutions, the man- 
agement is not doing its duty unless effort is made at once to learn 
why this is so and whether it can be prevented. The conditions may 
be such that there is no escape. Then the question arises whether 
it would be cheaper to have the laundry work done outside. 

As an illustration of the third sort of problem, we may take that 
which arises in many institutions concerning unused land. Most 
institutions have a considerable tract of land for air, light, and pros- 
pect, and much of this could be utilized for raising at least some 
summer vegetables. In many cases where this has been done the 
apparent cost of food has been much reduced. Yet it is impossible 
to know whether this is worth while unless one can know what is the 
expense for labor attributable directly to the vegetables raised. If 
the engineer or other employees have much leisure during the summer 
and that leisure can be devoted to this use, gardening of this sort 
is likely to be profitable. Only careful accounting can determine 
just when it is so under these or any other circumstances. 

All three of these purposes of cost accounting demand that costs 
be known as exactly as possible; and the second of these demands 
that a manager shall know not only the cost in his own institution 
but in a great many others, for only then can he make comparisons 
between his own establishment and others and learn whether his 
costs are excessive. One encouraging feature in institutional service 



574 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

as compared with commercial service is that the only rivalry that 
can be acknowledged — at least with a good face — is rivalry in effi- 
ciency. Every good institution is interested in institutional progress 
and is glad to conduct experiments and share results with others. 
Indeed, institutional progress would have been far slower if there 
had not been something of a professional spirit at work. Professional 
ethics demands that each person in charge of an institution shall have 
not only something of scientific eagerness to learn how things can 
best be done but also altruism enough to help others to benefit by 
his experience. In order to make possible comparisons of institu- 
tions under somewhat similar conditions a uniform scheme of account- 
ing is essential. This means, moreover, something more than a 
uniform scheme of accounts; for even institutions with accounts of 
identical names may have results which are not at all comparable; 
uniformity must extend to the content of the accounts even more 
than to their forms and names. Before results can be made at all 
comparable we must be sure that in all institutions under considera- 
tion exactly the same kind of things are charged to each account. 
Virtually, every institution manager who is subject to trustees or 
other superiors is eager for additional funds, for he believes that work 
can be done more economically or at least more satisfactorily with 
larger capital. The most efficient instrument for inducing trustees 
to supply needed funds is a statement of financial results which shows 
not only exactly the cost of each kind of service rendered but how 
those costs are related to similar costs in other institutions. Trustees 
are usually business men who know the value of a dollar. They wish 
to know definite facts about the yield of the dollars entrusted to them, 
and they are far more interested in these than in hypotheses and 
mere managerial ambitions. Every institution has some advantages 
over other institutions, and every one has some handicaps; but the 
good manager will attempt to learn by concrete figures exactly what 
are his handicaps and what they cost, and what are the actual savings 
from his advantages. He should not allow the handicaps for which 
circumstances — or the trustees — are responsible to swallow up the 
gains for which the credit is properly his. Until uniform accounting, 
or at least something approaching it, becomes common, no manager 
will be in a position to make clear to his trustees just what are the 
handicaps under which he is working and just what are the economics 
that have resulted from his management. As an illustration, I know 
a hospital turning away paying patients for lack of room, and yet 



19 lo] Accounting for Institutions 575 

giving its matron private quarters which if let to private-room patients 
would yield several hundred dollars weekly; total costs in this hospital 
are high, far above its income; another hospital nearby, practically 
self-supporting, gives its matron quarters worth not half so much; 
yet the hospital giving its matron expensive quarters shows a lower 
administrative cost than the other. The objection is not necessarily 
to the spacious quarters supphed to the matron but to the fact 
that the accounts take no cognizance, in the administrative cost 
of anything but salary, and therefore the result of this extravagance 
of space does not appear, and a comparison of the two sets of accounts 
is sadly misleading. Comparisons of accounts when the method of 
accounting is different are worse than useless, for they may show an 
advantage where there is really a handicap. 

Let us now turn to the methods of learning costs. First the 
accounts for each department having an exclusive function should 
be as far as possible distinct from those of every other department. 
The steward's department, for illustration, is concerned with food 
in a more or less raw state — except, perchance, so far as food is pur- 
chased necessarily in a cooked state, as are shredded wheat and 
numerous other cereals. It may chance that in some institution the 
purchasing is careless and therefore the costs high, and yet the cooking 
is extremely economical. In such a case, unless a distinction is made 
between the steward's department and the kitchen department, 
the normal gross cost for table board, if only that figure is preserved 
may hide the fact that one department is well managed and the other 
ill. The kitchen should be charged for the cost of cooking food and 
for that alone; this should include the cost of fuel, labor, repairs, etc. 
The serving department should also be distinguished from the others, 
for in some cases there is \-ery great wastefulness in the unfortunate 
arrangement of the establishment, so that the cost of service brings 
up the total cost of food in spite of the fact that both the purchas- 
ing department and the cooking department are well managed. 

The expense of the purely housekeeping items, such as sweeping, 
dusting, and scrubbing, should not be confused with other expenses. 
Where some of this work is done by persons employed primarily in other 
departments, as is often the case in hospitals v/here the nurses have 
charge of patients' rooms, an attempt should be made to distinguish 
between that part of the nurses' wages which is for professional care 
of patients and that which is for housekeeping. At least it is true that 
the cost of taking care of the general rooms, such as halls, stairways, 



576 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

reception rooms, assembly rooms, etc., should be carried distinct from 
the cost of the care of private rooms. Laundry charges should be 
carried distinct from all others, and should include fuel, soap, starch, 
labor, etc. 

The cost of the care of grounds should be separately determined ; 
this would ordinarily include the care of flower beds, the mowing of 
lawns, shoveling snow from walks, etc. This appears on the face of 
it to be a small item, but it is obvious that an institution having large 
grounds with many walks has a very much heavier charge in this 
respect than others, and a manager who is judged by his total cost 
per resident-day is handicapped as compared with a manager who 
has no expensive grounds to care for; he should be able to point out 
to the trustees of his institution just what it costs to maintain its 
external attractiveness. Separate accounts should be kept for mainte- 
nance of buildings and for maintenance of equipment. Of course, as 
in all business operations, separate accounts should be kept for taxes, 
insurance, water, gas, electric light, legal expenses, etc. 

The accounts just mentioned may be called the primary accounts. 
These require nothing more than simple bookkeeping. We must now 
pass on to the accounting which involves an analysis of transactions 
so that the distribution of charges may be properly determined. In 
order that we may know what are the exact costs for various kinds 
of service it is necessary to know not only the total per capita cost 
per day but the per capita cost of each of many separate items per 
day. We must distribute most of what are commonly called " over- 
head" costs — that is, costs incurred for several services in common — 
among the various departments. 

To say that we must know the costs of rooms for employees is not 
to recommend stinginess in provision for them ; to say that we must 
figure the difference in cost between a seven by seven bed-room and 
a ten by twelve bed-room is not to recommend the seven by seven 
bed-room; it is only to say that we must know what we are getting 
for the money spent. All the costs which are indirectly incurred 
for any department should be ultimately carried to the accounts 
of that department. It will cost more to do the laundry work in 
an estabhshment paying its laundresses such high wages that they 
can live comfortably in rooms which they must hire in the neighbor- 
hood at normal city lodging-house prices than in an institution where 
the laundresses are boarded on the premises; and if the accounts in 
both of these cases charge to the laundry department only the actual 



iQio] Accounting for Institutions 577 

money-wages paid, one will show a high labor cost and the other 
a cost singularly low. Before any comparison can be made between 
the two cases, therefore, the laundry accounts must be brought to a 
common basis and the cost figures for laundry work must include 
not only the obvious primary costs hke fuel, suppHes and wages, 
but also a charge for laundry space, for laundresses' rooms, for food 
(including cooking and serving), for the laundresses' own laundry work 
(if done in the laundry), for lighting, for heating, etc.; and we must 
reahze that included in the cost of the rooms are necessarily not only 
the care of the rooms but a share of insurance, taxes, depreciation,etc., 
on the cost of the building. In other words, every secondary cost 
involves many other secondary costs, and no comparison is possible 
between two institutions until a general scheme of distributing such 
secondary costs has been appHed to them all. 

This sounds very complicated. As a matter of fact, however, when 
a system has once been devised it is not a laborious task to make a 
proper distribution of secondary costs, and no extensive bookkeeping 
is involved. When the primary accounts have been charged with the 
obvious items of cost, we have merely to subdivide the total of those 
which stand at the foundation of the whole institution and distribute 
them among the various departments on an equitable basis. For 
illustration, insurance on buildings, taxes on buildings, depreciation 
of buildings and repairs of buildings, are shared by the various depart- 
ments in the ratio of the building space occupied. Usually the square 
foot of floor space is a satisfactory unit for distribution — unless, 
indeed, it chances that some stories are higher than others or some 
buildings are less expensive than others. It is obvious that if the 
first story has a height of twelve feet, the second ten, and the third 
eight, it is hardly fair to distribute room costs on the basis of floor 
space alone, for the expense of the structure Hes in height quite as much 
as in horizontal dimension. Ordinarily, too, an upper floor is less 
desirable than a lower. In the matter of cleaning, window space and 
wall space may be quite as important as floor space. The actual 
distribution must be determined in every case by the circumstances 
of that case, and when the principle has once been recognized there is 
likely to be very little serious discrepancy as between institutions. 
Ordinarily, it is enough to say that if the dining room occupies one 
thousand square feet and the whole establishment occupies fifty 
thousand square feet, the serving department should bear one-fiftieth 
of this group of expense— as well, of course, as an additional share 



578 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

determined by the floor space occupied by waitresses' sleeping rooms. 
Lighting may well be distributed by the ratio of the number of lights 
in a room to the total number, although, of course, allowance must 
be made for rooms which are only occasionally lighted. Heating 
would ordinarily be distributed on the basis of cubic capacity — for 
the normal time a room is heated. 

The most complicated figure to get is likely to be that for food costs, 
— at least in an institution supplying several kinds of diet. In a 
hospital, for instance, there is likely to be a table for house officers, 
which may or may not be the same as that served ordinarily to patients 
in private rooms; next in order is likely to come the regular house 
diet for patients in wards and for nurses ; next comes the coarser diet 
for non-professional employees; and last, the fever or liquid diet. 
Many institutional managers will say that the attempt to learn just 
how much food goes to each of these groups of diet is more expensive 
than the value of the information wdll warrant. I believe they speak 
without adequate knowledge, for much of the needed information is — 
or should be — at hand. 

In any accounting worthy of the name careful store records are 
kept. Everything going into the storeroom is debited, and everything 
going out is credited. Many things go out of the storeroom for use 
in all four of the classes of diet mentioned, and many others go out for 
the use of only one of them; but it is always someone's business to 
know the destination of everything issued. Three kinds of records of 
stores going into the kitchen will usually give all necessary information 
with a minimum of labor. The first of these should show for each 
meal the foods peculiar to one diet — such, for instance , as high-cost 
fruits or meats for private patients. The second sort of record should 
show for each meal the foods common to several diets but peculiar 
to that meal, such as vegetables and desserts. The third sort of 
record should show for long periods — e.g., monthly — the consump- 
tion of common foods general for all diets. A small amount of addi- 
tional labor will give the exact cost of food material for each diet. 

Lists of the first sort, that is, for foods peculiar to certain diets, 
must, of course, be made out and figured for each meal ; but as a matter 
of fact the housekeeper must regularly provide such a list as a guide 
in the preparation of the food, and the only additional labor necessary 
for learning costs is that of entering the amount consumed, the price, 
and the product. The calculation may of course be made in the office 
at convenient intervals. 



iQio] Accounting for Institutions 579 

Exactly the same thing is true of the second sort of lists. The 
total cost divided by the number of persons served gives the cost per 
person for each thing served. Food listed on the third sort of record, 
such as flour, sugar, butter, milk, etc., ordinarily needs to be registered 
only monthly, for these things are presumably consumed in some- 
thing approximating a steady proportion for all kinds of diet. It 
may be known, for instance, that persons on fever diet consume only 
one-eighth as much flour and sugar as those on house diet. If that 
is the case, the number of fever-patient meals should be divided by 
eight before determining the ratio. If account of stock is taken 
monthly, the figure of cost for foods of this sort may be determined 
by dividing the cost of the total consumption for the month by the 
number of meals served, and charging each department on the basis 
of its own number of meals. 

At the end of the month we have in these records the total cost 
for food for each class of diet, as follows; list i, total cost of special 
foods; list 2, total cost of foods common to several diets but not com- 
mon to all meals; list 3, total cost of foods common to all diets and all 
meals. The total of each list divided by the number of meals served 
on that list gives the average cost per meal for that list. For each 
class of diet, the sum of the averages of those lists which served that 
diet is the total average food cost per meal. 

If to this food cost we add the kitchen cost — wliich is the sum of the 
space-cost of the kitchen, cooks' wages, fuel cost, rooms and board of 
cooks, etc., — the serving cost, the housekeeping cost, the laundry cost, 
room cost, etc., we have the total cost per resident day. This is 
obviously our final figure, the ultimate thing sought, — for all the 
departments are subservient to the residents. As we go along, how- 
ever, we determine for each department its own cost, in order that 
we may know whether it is most economically managed. 

Under the method of primary and secondary accounts outlined 
above any number of subdivisions may be made, and even with uni- 
form accounting an institution desiring to trace any detailed costs 
may make as many as it likes without destroying the uniformity, if 
only its subdivisions are based on the uniform plan — that is, are 
capable of combination to produce a total identical in significance with 
that of the institutions which have not made subdivisions. The minute 
subdivisions would ordinarily be kept for purposes of comparison one 
year with another within the institution, whereas the figures for 
groups as a whole would ordinarily be kept for comparison with those 



580 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

for other institutions. It is not ordinarily possible to compare 
detailed figures with those for other institutions, for conditions are 
widely different. Total laundry costs per resident day, for instance, 
may well be compared between institutions, but the cost of fuel 
should be used for comparison mainly within the institution itself; 
for one laundry may use coal, another wood, another gas, another 
oil, another electricity, and another steam. 

Accounting is something more, however, than determining mere 
financial facts. Statistics are of great importance in making it 
possible to learn why differences in costs persist. With regard to 
food, for instance, it is true that institutions in some places are able 
to buy meats much more cheaply than others, but suffer a consider- 
able loss in comparison with others in the purchase of groceries. 
Differences are very great with regard to dairy products. If, then, 
we are going to compare food costs and get results worth anything, 
we must know something of the conditions under which each institu- 
tion operates. We need to know not only what prices it is forced to 
pay, but also what is the prevailing tendency in that institution with 
regard to the kind of diet furnished. For this purpose it is well to 
keep statistical figures for the average price of several groups of food, 
such, for instance, as beef, mutton, lamb, fowl, butt-er, milk, eggs, etc. 
To these may well be added the average price per pound for certain 
staple articles like flour, sugar, tea, coffee. Lastly, in order that the 
records may show the relative importance of various classes of food 
in the total cost of diet, the total expenditure in each of these groups 
should be reported. These groups may well run as follows: meat, 
poultry, fish, groceries, fresh vegetables, canned vegetables, fresh 
fruits, dried fruits, canned fruits, butter, milk, cream, eggs. Such 
figures would show surprising differences between different institu- 
tions. If any establishment shows a conspicuously low purchasing 
power of money, that fact should stand out so clearly that the reason 
is sure to be investigated. 

Innumerable other statistics not burdensome to compile are valuable 
as guides in determining comparative costs. For illustration, the 
number of pieces of laundry work, distinguishing the character — as 
by separate count for sheets, towels, pillow cases, etc. — is important 
if per capita costs are to be compared. The area of garden plots, 
of lawn to be mowed, and of walks to be kept free of snow, are con- 
venient figures. The area of floors swept weekly per capita gives a 
hint as to the comparative cost of housekeeping labor. Many of 



igio] Shop Methods in Household Administration 581 

these figures, such as areas and ratios of area, are practically unchang- 
ing, and calculations once made are good for months or years. When 
ratios need to be applied to changing monthly totals, calculating 
devices like the slide-rule and adding machines may be utilized so as 
almost to eliminate clerical cost. 

In closing, let me reiterate the need of uniformity. No man ever 
progressed far if he relied wholly on what he learned by his own 
experience. It is absurd to spend time and money learning for your- 
self what your neighbors learned years ago, — or even what they are 
now learning. If they are conducting experiments in some lines, you 
can most profitably conduct experiments in another. Then compare 
notes and teach one another w^hat each has learned. Only through 
uniformity, however, can you ever compare notes and profit by one 
another's experiments. 



Shop Methods Applied to Household Administration. 

Miss Florence Gushing, who had visited the Bethlehem shops where 
Mr. F. W. Taylor has introduced the results of scientific time study 
as a foundation for the best management, gave a brief account of his 
success in coupling "high wages for workmen with low labor cost for 
employer." The first requisite is "knowing exactly what you want 
men to do, and seeing that they do it in the best and cheapest way." 
The key note is cooperation in place of opposition. First class tools, in 
first class order, are required. 

Mr. Taylor has spent over $60,000 in experiments of time study, 
with a stop watch. He began by watching the best pig iron worker 
at Bethlehem, who did just as directed and increased his output from 
3 to 4 times. When thus standardized, picked men were put on 
piece work with the result that in two years, from 400 to 600 laborers 
handling raw materials, who had been paid $1.15 a day, accomplished 
tasks from 3^ to 4 times as great and were paid $1.85, every man 
handUng 57 instead of 16 tons each day. There were only two 
drinking men among these picked workers, and all saved money and 
lived better. 

Time study and an improved system in the inspection of balls for 
bicycle bearings resulted in 35 girls, who had been in service from 8 
to 10 years, doing the work which formerly required 120. They 
averaged from $6.50 to $9 a week instead of from $3.50 to $4.50. 



582 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

A study of motions in laying bricks was made, just how high mortar 
should be placed above the scaffold ; the size of hods was also figured. 
The result was that 17 motions were reduced to from 5 to 7 with 
unskilled labor. Work in the Bethlehem Steel Company has been 
revolutionized. In Berlin 1000 engineers are studying similar methods. 
These ideas have been applied in some cases without intelligence and 
have failed, injuring their reputation. Mr. Taylor himself uses the 
utmost care, will spread the system only through his own men, and 
is not yet ready to print results. 

DISCUSSION. 

There is one serious objection to this method. A man has to do 
everything by prescription and there is ro chance to use his own 
brains, which is vital to the progress of the workman. The most 
serious problem in the mechanic arts is that it makes a man a machine. 
We must also shorten hours or spoil the man. 

Professor F, G. Benedict has studied the amount of energy required 
in type writing, and hopes to measure in calories the energy expenditure 
for all kinds of house work. 

We are putting into human life improvements for increasing efficiency. 
Look over the results of progress in the mechanic arts, the auto- 
mobile, flying machines, wireless communication; why not increase 
the efficiency of human life from 5 to 10 fold in the future by such 
methods? 



BRIEF RECORDS OF THE FIRST SECTIONAL CONFER. 
ENCE ON HOUSEHOLD AND INSTITUTION MANAGE- 
MENT OF THE ADMINISTRATION SECTION OF 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS 
ASSOCIATION. 

Following an invitation from the Lake Placid Club, an important 
conference of members of the American Home Economics Association 
engaged m household and institution administration, or in related 
teaching fields, was held at the Lake Placid Club, Essex County 
New York, from Tuesday, June 28 to Saturday, July 2, 1910. ' 

The formal program for the conference as presented was as follows: 

Tuesday, June 28. 

The expanding field of household administration.-Miss Adelaide Nutting Teach- 
ers College, New York City. 

Certain phases of instruction in institutional management.-Miss Sarah Louise 
Arnold, Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 

Dornutory life for college women.-Miss Marian Talbot, University of Chicago 

Qualification and training of the head of the college dormitory.-Miss Lydia 
Southard, House Director, Whittier Hall, Teachers College, New York City 

Essentials in the training of dietitians.-Miss Florence R. Corbett, Whittier 
Hall, Teachers College. 

Practice-fields for students in institution management courses.-Miss Mary 
Urie Watson, Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Ontario. 

The pupil dietitian.-Miss Grace E. McCullough, Mass. General Hospital, Boston 
Mass. 

Wednesday, June zg. 

The institution kitchen and dining room : Its arrangement, equipment and service - 
Miss Martha Van Rensselaer and Miss Flora Rose, Home Economics Depart- 
ment, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. 

Dining room management.-Miss Charlotte Way, Domestic supervisor. Rock- 
ford College, lUs., Mrs. Mary H. Moran, New England Kitchen, Boston 

Menus and meal systems.— Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid Club 

Nutrition investigations in relation to dining room management -Dr C F 
Langworthy, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D C 

Lunches for High School Students.-Miss Emma Smedley, WiUiam Penn High 
School, Philadelphia, Pa., Miss AHce C. Boughton, Starr Centre Association, 
Philadelphia Mrs. AHce M. Hotchkin, supervisor of high school lunch rooms, 
Rochester, New York. 



583 



584 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

A lunch room for working girls in which simple instruction is given. — Miss Katharine 

Lage, Manhattan Trade School, New York City. 
School diet in relation to growth. — Miss Gwendolyn Stewart, Seranton, Pa. 

Thursday, June 30. 

Domestic and institutional laundries. 

Equipment. — Miss Clara D. Noyes, St. Luke's Hospital, New Bedford, Mass. 
The laundry as a corrunercial enterprise. — Miss Jane Seymour Klink, Brooklyn, 

N. Y. 
Courses of instruction in laundry management. — Miss L. Ray Balderston, 
Teachers College. 
Standards of linen supplies in institutions. 
The hospital linen supply. — Miss Louise Powell, Superintendent of training 
school for nurses, Hospital of the University of Minnesota. 
The organization of service in institutional households as regards time and other 
factors. — Miss Alice Patterson, Mt. Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass. 
The general organization and administration of college dormitory groups. 
2.15 p.m. Business session. 

Friday, July i. 

Architecture in its relation to institutional administration. — Henry W. Wilkinson, 

New York City. 
A study of floor materials. — Miss Jessie C. Saunders, New York City. 
Decoration and furnishing of college and school dorrnitories. — (Discussion.) 
The financial management of institution households and dining rooms. 

An outline of accounting for institutions. — Prof. Wilham Morse Cole, Harvard 

University. 
Melvil Dewey, President Lake Placid Club. 
3 p.m. Discussion — Accounts, architecture, floorings. 

Saturday, July 2. 

Ideals in the administration of the college dormitory. — Mrs. Marion Lincoln 

Chamberlain, Dean of Women, Rhode Island College, Kingston, R. I. 
Business meeting of the section on institution management. 

An address of welcome to the Lake Placid Club was given by its 
president, Melvil Dewey. Mr. Dewey briefly reviewed the progress 
since eleven pioneers came together at Lake Placid eleven years before 
to discuss how best to apply the teachings of science to the problems 
of the modern home and how to introduce such teaching into schools 
of all grades, and then spoke as follows: 

To-day we are laying the corner stone of a new profession, demand- 
ing trained women of the best ability. This meeting is a mosaic 
of teachers and administrators. Many educators teach before they 



19 lo] Brief Records of the Conference 585 

know just what to teach. The appropriation of a salary and appoint- 
ment of a professor is not enough to estabhsh a new course of study, 
for we must know the best way to do things and just what to teach. 
The world is now in unstable equilibrium ; just as fast as something 
better is found it accepts new things. It wants to improve but there 
is too much inertia. Many things are now in the air. We must 
focalize and interchange ideas by that subtle mental chemic action 
and reaction which crystallizes thought. We must formulate, record, 
and constantly improve as in therapeutic medicine. 

The best things are usually started by a few earnest people with 
faith. The influence of this meeting, which is five times larger than 
the first, eleven years ago, will be felt through college dormitories, 
schools, apartment hotels, cooperative homes and institutions of all 
kinds. In ten years we shall see greater progress than in the past 
decade. We have dreamed dreams and seen visions but this work 
is still in its infancy. They key note of this meeting is, we must 
first know what to teach as the best methods. 

At a business session held June 30, the following were chosen as 
an executive committee: Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid Club, 
Essex Co., N. Y., chairman; Miss Adelaide Nutting, Teachers College 
Columbia Univ., New York City; Prof. Wm. Morse Cole, Harvard 
University, Cambridge, Mass. ; Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell 
University, Ithaca, N. Y.; and Melvil Dewey, Pres. Lake Placid 
Club, Essex Co., N. Y. Miss Lydia Southard, Teachers College, 
Columbia Univ., New York City, was later appointed secretary. 

Committees were also appointed, as follows: 

On Existing Demands in Institution Work, Miss Martha Van 
Rensselaer, chairman; Administration, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, chair- 
man; Curriculum for Training for Institution Management, Miss 
Florence Corbett, Teachers College, chairman, and Miss Lydia 
Southard, Teachers College; and Resolutions, Dr. Benjamin R. 
Andrews, Teachers College, Miss Maude Gilchrist, Mich. Agricul- 
tural College, and Mrs. Olaf N. Guldin, chairman Home Economics 
Department, General Federation of Women's Clubs, Fort Wayne 
Ind. 

Among the resolutions reported by the Resolutions Committee 
and adopted at the closing meeting, July 2, were the following: 

(i) It is significant that this first conference should meet at the same place and 
under the same auspices as the first conference on Home Economics a decade ago. 
We congratulate Mr. and Mrs. Dewey on their services to the cause, and we hereby 
express our appreciation of their great contribution to the work. 



586 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

(2) (o) That the conference emphasize the ideals of rational living in home, 
institution and community life; {h) that we utilize all proper methods to advance 
these ideals in education in both elementary and higher schools; (c) that we urge 
the necessity of a professional training for those concerned in household and in- 
stitution management; {d) that we work for increased government support of 
scientific investigation in this field, and a similar provision in universities and 
technical schools; (e) that we arrange for the preparation and dissemination of 
needed literature on institution management; (/) that we organize and assist 
meetings and conferences where these subjects are considered, so that the public 
ma)' realize their importance as a basis of conservation of human life, as well as of 
material resources. 

(3) That the conference records its conviction of the great importance of sec- 
tional conferences Uke this dealing with definite divisions of Home Economics as 
well as the general meetings whose programs include the whole field of Home 
Economics, and that we request the committee on institution management to 
arrange for a conference in 191 1. 

(4) That we express our appreciation of the great value of the Journal of 
Home Economics, and urge our members to extend its circulation among insti- 
tutions, libraries, clubs and individuals who will find it valuable as the authoritive 
publication in the field of home and industrial management. 

That the executive committee of the American Home Economics Association 
be requested to consider the possibihty of adding some supplementary' phrase on 
the title page of the Journal which shall express its relation to the institutional 
field — for example, "Journ.^l of Home Economics — Home, Institution, Com- 
munity." 

(5) That the conference approves the proposed federal legislation providing 
national support for education in Home Economics; specially that we urge favor- 
able action by congress on the Davis-DoUiver Bill which will extend support to 
secondary and normal education in Home Economics. 

(6) That the executive board of the section be authorized in the interval between 
its meetings to act on any matter which four-fifths of the board agree shall not be 
postponed till the next meeting, and where the action proposed correctly repre- 
sents the majority sentiment of the section. 

(7) Resolved that the members of this conference express their sense of loss in 
the death of Mrs. Adelaide Hoodless who so long and ably promoted the cause of 
Home Economics education in Canada. 

In addition, the section voted to ask that a committee of five be 
appointed to formulate standards of certification to be required in 
Home Economics training, similar to the standards required for certi- 
fied public accountants; that a committee on laundry and linen sup- 
plies be appointed, this being referred to the committee on adminis- 
tration; that the committee on resolutions be asked to formulate a 
protest against the vulgarity of so much elaborateness and display 
in relation to food; that it is desirable that the Graduate School of 
Home Economics be affiliated with the American Home Economics 



igio] Brief Records of the Conference 587 

Association; advocating the admission of suitable advertising to the 
Journal of Home Economics ; and asking that the Journal issue a 
special number, containing the proceedings of the Conference. 
The conference then adjourned. 

LIST OF ATTENDANTS AT THE CONFERENCE. 

Allen, Lydia G., 24 S. West St., Media, Pa. 

Alline, Anna L., 74 Cottage St., Buffalo, N. Y. 

Andrews, Benj. R., Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City. 

Andrews, Mrs. B. R., New York City. 

Balderston, L. Ray, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City. 

Barber, Carrie B., Northfield Seminary, East Northfield, Mass. 

Barclay, Mrs. Sophie C, Margaret Bennett Home, Baltimore, Md. 

Barnum, Mrs. Charlotte P. Acer, Pittsford, Monroe Co. N. Y. 

Barnum, Nathaniel C, Pittsford, Monroe Co., N. Y. 

Boughton, Alice C, 4424 Larchwood Ave., West Philadelphia, Pa. 

Bradt, Cecilia K., Margaret Morrison Carnegie School for Women, Pittsburgh, 

Pa. 
Bray, Evelyn, London, Ontario. 

Cameron, Mrs. Katherine Morse, Mich. Agr. College, East Lansing, Mich. 
Cole, Prof. Wm. Morse, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. 
Cooper, Lenna F., Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Mich. 

CoRBETT, Florence R., Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City. 
Crosby, Mrs. W. H., 1042 Main St., Racine, Wis. 
Gushing, Florence M., 8 Walnut St., Boston, Mass. 
Davis, Olive, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 
Dewey, Mrs. Alvin H., 50 Harper St., Rochester, N. Y. 
Dewey, Mrs. Annie, Lake Placid Club, Essex Co., N. Y. 
Dewey, Melvil, Lake Placid Club, Essex Co., N. Y. 

Fisher, Katharine A., Macdonald College, Ste.Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, Canada. 
Gibbons, Emma C, Beebe Hall, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 
Gilchrist, Maude, Mich. Agr. College, East Lansing, Mich. 
GuLDLiN, Mrs. Olaf N., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Hill, Sarah C, The Bayard, New Brunswick, N. J. 
Hoover, Jessie M., No. Dak. Agr. College, Fargo, No. Dak. 
Hotchkin, Mrs. Alice M., 24 Calumet St., Rochester, N. Y. 
Lage, Katherine, Manhattan Trade School, 421 W. 121st St., New York City. 
Langwortecy, C. F., U. S. Dept., Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 
MacMillan, Nealina, Macdonald College, Ste. Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, 

Canada. 
Martin, Ella, 5959 Midway Park, Austin, 111. 

Moran, Mrs. Mary H., New England Kitchen, 39 Charles St., Boston, Mass. 
Mortimer, Mabel, Macdonald College, Ste. Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, Canada. 
Nutting, M. Adelaide, Teachers College, Colimibia University, New York 

City. 



5 88 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

Patterson, Alice M., Mt. Holyoke College, So. Hadley, Mass. 

Pett, Mrs. Clara G., Winona, Minn. 

Rose, Flora, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Sanborn, Gertrude, San Antonio, Texas. 

Sharp, Katharine L., Lake Placid Club, Essex Co., N. Y. 

Smedley, Emma, 6 East Front St., Media, Pa. 

Smellie, M. I. L., Macdonald, Guelph, Ontario. 

Southard, Lydia, Whittier Hall, Teachers College, New York City. 

Stubbs, Anna M., Mechanics Institute, Rochester, N. Y. 

Tennant, Ethel J., Macdonald Hall, Guelph, Ontario. 

Thatcher, Richard H., Hamilton Court, 39th and Chestnut Sts. Phila. 

Tutton, Mabel A., 140 York St. Buffalo, N. Y. 

Van Rensselaer, Martha, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Watson, Mary Urie, Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Ontario. 

Way, Charlotte M., Rockford College, Rockford, 111. 

Weld, Jennie H., Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 

Wilkinson, Henry W., 114 East 28th St. New Y-rk City. 



ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANNUAL MEETING. DECEMBER, 

1910. OF THE AMERICAN HOME 

ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

The third annual convention of the American Home Economics 
Association will be held at St. Louis, December 27-30, 1910, in con- 
nection with the conventions of the American Economic and the Socio- 
logical Associations. 

Annual meeting of the council, Tuesday, December 27, at 10:30 a.m. 

The following items of business, among others, will come up: 
Reports of the President, Secretary, and Treasurer; reports of afl&li- 
ated local societies; report of the Editor of the Journal of Home 
Economics; report on plans for the management of the Journal 
during 191 1. Other items of business to be proposed should be 
reported to the secretary at once. 

The provisional program for the meeting at St. Louis, with the per- 
sons in charge of program arrangements, follows: 

One meeting wath speakers from American Economic Association. Program: 
Secretary Andrews. 

One meeting with speakers from American Sociological Association. Program: 
Secretary Andrews. 

Two Education Section meetings (Elementary and High School Problems). 
Program: Mrs. Alice P. Norton, University of Chicago. 

Two Administration Section meetings. Program: Miss Adelaide Nutting, 
Teachers College, New York City. 

Instruction and Research in Chemistry and Dietetics. Program: Miss Edna 
Day, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas. 

Instruction and Research in Economics (Household Economics). Program: 
Miss S. P. Breckinridge, University of Chicago. 

Instruction and Research in Textiles and Applied Art (Dress, Decoration, etc.) 
Program: Miss Abby Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, Madison. 

Instruction and Research in Housing and Sanitation. Program: Miss Isabel 
Bevier, University of Illinois. Urbana. 

Methods of Extension Work for Rural Communities for Women's Clubs, etc. 
Program: Miss Rosa Bouton, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Neb. 

General Public Session — Education for the Home. 

589 



590 The Journal of Home Economics [November 

It is especially requested that members of the Council send imme- 
diately to the persons named above suggestions of titles of papers or 
of persons who might contribute papers. Particularly it is hoped 
that there may be included under each heading reports of studies, 
thesis problems, research work, etc. now under way in different insti- 
tutions. Such reports may have to be read by title only at St. Louis, 
but they can be included in the printed proceedings. 

The headquarters of the Associaton will be at the Planters Hotel, 
St. Louis, which gives special rates to delegates. The granting of 
special railroad rates depends upon the attendance of looo persons 
at the conventions meeting at St. Louis during the week. 

It is hoped that teachers in the colleges and schools of the middle 
West and South, and those concerned with problems of management 
in institutions, will rally to the St. Louis meeting. A strong local 
committee is arranging the cooperation of interests in St. Louis and a 
good program is assured. 

General information may be secured from the Secretary of the Asso- 
ciation, Benjamin R. Andrews, 525 W. 120th St., New York City. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. II DECEMBER, 1910 No. 6 

EDITORIAL BOARD FOR 1910. 

EDITOR— Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 
ASSOCIATE editors- 
Education, Miss Helen Kinne, Teacher? College, New York City. 

Extension, Miss Anna Barrows 98 Gainsboro St., Boston, Ma>s. 

Food and Nutrition, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. 

Textiles and Clothing, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, Wis. 

The House, Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana. 

Administration, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, New York. 

The Family, Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Teachers College, New York City. 

Affiliated Societies — Miss Martha Van Rensselaer. Cornell University. 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

December, igio 

The teaching of Home Economics as a profession, EHzabeth C. Condit 591 

Methods and devices in Home Economics as used in Rockford College, Mary 

D. Chambers 594 

.\ lesson in cookery in the elementarj' schools. Alice P. Norton and Jennie 

P.Rich 601 

How to apply the laboratory method of study to practical cookery in high 

schools, Carlotta C. Greer 605 

How to teach the preparation of meals, Florence Willard 609 

The use of the loo-calorie portion as a convenient means for calculating the 

food value of a given diet, Rachel H. Cohvell 613 

How to use the loo-calorie portion in dietary teaching in high schools, Mabel 

Wellman 615 

Relation of biological chemistry to Home Economics, W. J. Gies 619 
Courses in bacteriology for Home Economics, H. W. Conn 627 
The improvement of public health through the teaching of hygiene in ele- 
mentary schools, Frances Stern 631 

Teaching bacteriology to mothers, H. W. Hill 635 

Domestic science in Hawaii, Agnes Hunt 641 

Domestic science in the normal School of Hawaii, Florence Margaret Lee 646 
Report of the penny lunch experiment in Boston, January i-June 30, 1910 

Ellen H. Richards 648 

Acetylene gas as fuel for a domestic science kitchen, Joan Hamilton 654 

Note on the setting of gelatine, Olive Gair Patterson and C. C. Benson. 656 

A day's metabolism, C. C. Benson, M. B. Hamblym, et al 658 

A review of recent investigations bearing on domestic art, C. F. Langworthy 659 
A lesson in house construction for the elementary grades, Ethel Fifield Brooks. 673 

The application of cement in residence construction, James M. White 678 

Editorials 685 

Notices 688 

News from the Field 689 

Books and Literature 695 

Index to Volvune II 699 



THE 

Journal^/Home Economics 

Vol. II. DECEMBER, 1910 No. 6 

THE TEACHING OF HOME ECONOMICS AS A 
PROFESSION. 

Elizabeth C. Condit. 

Jacob Tome Institute. 

A profession is commonly regarded, whether from the purely per- 
sonal point of view or in a general way, by its mercantile value, its 
congeniality, and the opportunity presented for service to society. 

Much has been written of the teaching of Home Economics in our 
schools and colleges, and the need of it is so constantly and strongly 
demonstrated on every hand, that I shall consider its place in the 
school curriculum as established. 

Does the teaching of Home Economics offer a fair return for the 
necessary time and money spent in preparation? The high school 
graduate must spend at least two years in a school of domestic science 
and if she is very young or immature or deficient in preparation three 
years. The average cost of tuition, living, etc., for such training, is 
about $1000. The minimum salary paid teachers of domestic science 
in the public schools is $500 a year, with the maximum about $2400. 
The demand for graduates from the domestic science schools still 
exceeds the supply and the kind of teaching offered varies from that 
of a teacher of cookery in the public schools and that of a dietitian 
who controls the diet kitchen in a hospital and teaches the nurses, to 
the housekeeper and public demonstrator. The number of subjects 
the teacher of Home Economics is called upon to teach is large, includ- 
ing any or all of the sciences, most of the arts, hygiene, household 
management, nutrition, etc. 

591 



592 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

One of the common difficulties confronting the instructor of Home 
Economics is the application of a science to the home problems, 
with students who have had no scientific training. All the help a 
teacher receives from the authorities is a stating of the problem, 
often indefinitely. For instance, some theorist or even a practical 
but not scientific school director wants the girls in school to 
have a course in the chemistry of cleaning. The Home Economics 
teacher with a full schedule and no accepted course to follow, must 
meet the problem as best she can. The chemistry of cleaning is, 
by the way, much more easily adapted to the limits of the class-room 
and time schedule, than are many other important household prob- 
lems. Home Economics is in so unformed a condition as to offer 
great interest and scope for original work, especially in organizing 
and directing the details for class procedure and presentation. 

Is the teacher of Home Economics a philanthropist? All economists 
teach that on the welfare, morality and health of the family depend the 
strength, solidity, and influence of the nation. The Home Economics 
teacher should be able to apply to the home the knowledge imparted by 
the other instructors. If she is the right kind of woman, she will soon be 
the adviser in many homes, for their problems will be brought her by 
the children from the mothers and by the mothers themselves. She is 
in a position to improve the sanitary conditions of the neighborhood 
by awakening public opinion, and all this is being done in a quiet 
way by every domestic science instructor who is at all true to her 
vocation. 

The classes come to the Home Economics laboratory and class- 
room with strong interest. It is the very rare girl who is totally 
uninterested in the home problems or does not enjoy the activity of 
the laboratory. In a recent article^ by Miss Elizabeth Kemper Adams 
she says: 

" This leads me to the second way in which academic hfe of the college fails 
psychologically in the response called for in class procedure. It may be called a 
failure in method. In the first place, the class-room stimulations and responses are 
heavily of one type — the verbal, through speaking, reading and writing, seldom 
through other forms of action. 

" The psychological processes involved are to a great degree those of acquisi- 
tion, retention and reproduction, listening to lectures that lead to examinations. 
It is a closed circle, in which the student gives to the teacher and to the class 
what they already know or are supposed to know. 

^Educational Revircv, 39 (1910), No. 3, p. 247, The Psychological Gains and 
Losses of the College Woman. 



igio] Teaching Home Economics as a Profession 593 

"it has been said that under no other circumstances would human beings 
submit to such intolerable boredom. All this vast and painful labor is supposed 
to be for the purpose oj equipping students to meet in the best way the various 
experiences of life after leaving college. It is rather like giving a workman the 
tools of a skilled artisan and telling him to store them carefully until they be- 
come blunt and rusty." 

Home life, food, clothing, spending one's income, are so much a 
part of life even during school age that the responses to the interests 
awakened in the Home Economics classes are prompt and the prob- 
lems adaptable to the class room. If solved, the information is 
immediately useful to either the student or her family. Often the 
problem is only partly solved in the class-room and the interest of 
the discoverer is given to the work. With this interest comes the 
realization to the student of the necessity of drill to gain skill and 
speed in manipulation. 

The teacher of Home Economics whose pedagogic training equals 
her scientific knowledge has an unbounded opportunity for educa- 
tional work in a variety of directions. 

It seems to me the future of the profession of the teaching of Home 
Economics now depends upon thorough training in psychology and 
in class-room methods and management. When the Home Economics 
instructor shows teaching skill equal to that of other teachers, her 
place, importance, and value to the school will be inestimable. The 
very importance of the training and the immediate use of the work 
present dangers to the school, and more thoroughly trained, sound 
thinkers familiar with the work, are needed to fix the scope and place 
of Home Economics in the average school curriculum. 

These and many more possibilities add to the interest of the Home 
Economics teachers' work, give dignity to the profession, and prevent 
monotony. 



METHODS AND DEVICES IN HOME ECONOMICS AS 
USED IN ROCKFORD COLLEGE. 

Mary Davoren Chambers, A.M. 

Head of Department of Chemistry and Home Economics. 

Though the problem of home management includes food, shelter, 
and clothing, and though our course is designed to cover all these 
phases of Home Economics, yet more and more every year do I find 
the food problem to dominate in importance. Hence, in this synopsis 
of our work in Rockford College, I will deal solely with the subject of 
food and nutrition. 

Every j'^ear I find it necessary to vary the course — often to revolu- 
tionize it — adapting it to changes in the personnel of the class; to 
changes in the times, though the dominant thought of the times is 
always an economic one; and to changes in my own wish to emphasize, 
to accentuate, now one point, now another. Hence, though I shall 
attempt to describe the work as it was given last year, only one thing 
is absolutely sure about the work of next year, that of necessity it 
will be different. 

We began our laboratory work by comparing raw tomatoes with 
baked tomatoes, raw bananas with baked bananas, baked potatoes 
with boiled potatoes, baked apples with steamed apples, and raw 
eggs and raw meat with eggs and meat cooked at different degrees of 
temperature. We found one generalization applicable to all the 
varying results, namely, that heat develops flavor, and that within 
limits the higher the temperature the more pronounced is the flavor. 
This, which may be called the fundamental principle of cookery, is at 
the basis of all our future work. Change in texture is also noted. 
Some original problems were given, e.g., the students were asked what 
general methods they would use in the cooking, respectively, of sweet 
corn, peas, squash, onions, cabbage, and beets, in order to attain their 
aim, the lessening or the development of flavor in the dish. This 
work covered several lessons. 

Next we studied the reaction of various foods to some of the "re- 
agents" used in cooking, e.g., water, acids, salts and sugar. We 

594 



igio] Home Economics in Rockford College 595 

boiled rice in our hard city water and in distilled water; we cooked 
potatoes, corn, and beans in strongly salted and in unsalted water; 
we cooked apples or preserved berries in water alone and in a heavy 
syrup; we used vinegar in making a ragout of tough meat. Original 
application is always demanded of the principles learned. 

"Surprises" often meet the students on assembling, as when the 
question is asked, "How many of you drank coffee this morning at 
breakfast?" "What time did you drink it, at the beginning or end 
of the meal, or together with your muffins and eggs or bacon? ' ' ' ' Now 
let us see whether you ought to drink coffee until you are as old as 
I am, and having reached that age, at what time during the meal 
you should use it, and whether the time of taking coffee is a m atter 
of any special importance?" 

Chemistry and physics are correlated at every possible point. In 
the application of physics, the field is very broad; the various methods 
of applying heat to food, the conducting properties of various media, 
e.g., dry or moist heat, the iron or the enameled skillet; why the iron 
gem pan brown the gems better than the agate gem pan, why the 
soapstone griddle need not be greased; whether the cake shall go on 
the top or on the bottom shelf of the oven first ; why quick baking causes 
the muffins to run up into a point in the middle; where to place milk 
and onions in the same refrigerator — all these are questions to which 
physics can be made tributary. I have known some students to try 
to use coefficients of expansion in baking a pound cake and feel greatly 
the better for the exercise, at least. Of course they found, as the 
teacher long ago learned, that the mixture of food materials used in 
the food, prepared in the kitchen, does not usually expand according 
to coefficients of expansion calculated for one or two of its ingredients. 
However, the attitude of mind which tries to solve home problems 
by the aid of scientific data is worth cultivating and the student can 
be led to consider other and more possible and practicable applications 
of physics. Physical laws can be cited in accounting for the loss of 
nutrients by the process of osmosis in the "floating" or "fattening" 
of oysters in fresh or brackish water and in the removal of an excess 
of salt in the freshening of salt ham or fish by soaking and in numerous 
other household matters. 

As a part of their work the students made fondant, this exercise 
coming soon after their elementary study of oxidizing and reducing 
agents in their chemistry class. On being asked to apply Trommer's 
test to the solution of the fondant and of the cane sugar used in making 



596 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

it, they were able intelligently to observe that if a little cupric salt 
were added to the test tube containing the fondant, it would be changed 
to the cuprous form. Since nothing was present but the candy to 
cause this change the cooked fondant may be inferred to have acquired 
properties which the original sugar did not possess. On repeating 
the test using molasses candy, vinegar taffy, and some other forms of 
inverted sugar the generaUzation was reached that heat and water, 
or better heat and acids, acting on cane sugar, change more or less 
of it to a sugar which will reduce certain metallic salts in solution. 
The similar action of ptyahn on starch should be pointed out. All 
these observations can be made to lead far into the chemistry of the 
groups of sugars and the facts of carbohydrate digestion. 

By the study of such everyday problems as how to clean a smoked 
asbestos mat, when to use agate or enameled utensils instead of ordi- 
nary iron or tin, how to raise the temperature of the inner contents of 
a double boiler, whether or not to use water from the kitchen boiler 
when making tea, how to prevent the discoloration of fruit after par- 
ing, how to devise freezing mixtures, etc., the students can be readily 
taught to appreciate the scientific factors involved and reach a reason- 
able solution. 

In connection with the v/ork in botany a study of the compo- 
sition and structure of the vegetable products used as food provides 
material for broad application. For instance, the reason why the 
best part of a potato is commonly considered to be that nearest the 
skin may be explained by comparing the potato with a branch. The 
outer part of the potato would then correspond to the phloem region 
of a branch which is particularly rich in the nutrient material required 
by the plant for its growth and development. The classification of 
potatoes with the Solanaceae, a family containing poisonous members 
such as the nightshade, may serve as a striking example of the facr 
that closely related plants may differ widely in their properties and 
that some which are originally unpalatable or harmful, may be so 
changed by selection and cultivation that they are wholesome and 
valuable. In the case of potatoes, the circumstances should also be 
considered under which a poisonous constituent, solanin, which would 
normally occur in the green plant, may be feared in the tuber if the 
potatoes are not rightly grown or rightly cared for, though it should 
be said, in truth, that the danger of solanin posioning from potatoes 
is remote under ordinary circumstances. The tomato and eggplant 
may also be spoken of as interesting examples of plants of the same 
family as the potato which are wholesome articles of food, though in 



iQio] Home Economics in Rockford College 597 

each case harmful attributes have in the past been attributed to them, 
as for instance, by the persons who fancied some connection between 
tomatoes and the occurrence of cancer. 

The above are some of the appHcations which can be made of the 
facts of botany. If the students should happen to study cryptogams 
at the time of the bread making lessons, that is, if the botany instructor 
touches on yeasts, molds and bacteriasinthe studyof cryptogams, the 
student should be able to set a bread sponge with a better knowledge 
of what the use of yeast involves than would otherwise be the case and 
to have a better knowledge than otherwise of the nature of the ingredi- 
ents which she must use to obtain good bread. The applications of 
data usually included in the students' work in bacteriology, including 
the processes of fermentation and sterilization to cooking problems, 
are obvious and need not be dwelt on further in this paper. 

Physiological chemistry is one of the branches of science which may 
be made of the utmost help to the teacher. It is sometimes said that a 
cereal food at the beginning of breakfast indirectly prepares the stomach 
for the reception of steak or eggs which may be eaten afterwards. A 
reason commonly given is that the alkahne sahva introduced in the 
stomach as a result of masticating the cereal stimulates the abundance 
of secretion of the acid gastric juice. In the same way if the question 
of the reasonableness of such a combination as apple sauce and pork 
arises, a usual answer is that acids stimulate the secretion of the bile 
and bile acids which are needed in the digestion of fats. Before accept- 
ing such lines of reasoning, which were perhaps as reasonable answers 
as could be given a few years ago, the pupil should be made famihar 
with the results of the careful studies of the digestion which have been 
reported by Pavlov and others and should be taught something of 
the mechanism of digestion as explained by this work and something 
of the function of both psychic and chemical stimulants in the process 
of digestion. 

From the attempt to make rennet custard in various ways the ques- 
tion may arise as to why rennet custard fails to solidify perfectly when 
made from a cup of cocoa in which the milk was necessarily cooked 
when the cocoa was made. Facts from physiological chemistry indi- 
cate that for the clotting of milk by rennin as well as for the clotting 
of blood by another enzyme the presence of lime salts in definite com- 
bination is necessary, and in the case under consideration these have 
been precipitated, that is, the right chemical combinations have been 
more or less upset in the boiling of cocoa before it was used for the 
custard. 



598 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



Of course in all such work the students must be taught how difficult 
it is to be sure that one has all the facts needed to answer the question 
and must realize that the conclusions one can reach must in the nature 
of things be simply the best explanation one can offer in the study of 
problems which involve many matters which are very commonly still 
under investigations in the laboratory. In this way the danger of 
fostering the habit of hasty generaUzation may be avoided. 

The student should also be impressed with the fact that inability 
to give definite answers to all questions which can be raised does not 
mean that they are useless questions or that the usual works of reference 
are silent on the matter either out of wilfulness or out of ignorance. It 
should rather be made clear to them that although it is only recently 
that the general subject of these home problems has received scientific 
study, yet much knowledge has been accumulated and additional 
information is accumulating rapidly, so that we may well hope 
that the mystery of yesterday may be the commonplace of tomorrow 
just as fermentation was a mystery until Pasteur and others made it 
clear to all. 

The subject of dietetics covers an hour a week for three semesters 
and involves the study of the problems of diet for the normal adult, 
for the growing child, for the aged, and for the sick. Types of all 
common foods are studied from a chemical, physical and economic 
standpoint; in other words, from their protein content, their energy 
value, their utilization by the organism and their cost as related to 
their other qualities. Questions of composition are made famihar by 
the use of series of charts, graphically illustrating the proper amounts 
of materials representing water, protein, fats, carbohydrates and ash 
in the common food materials. 

As an illustration of the bearing of other matters besides composition 
upon the relative value of food, the student compares the volume, cost, 
composition, and energy value of a pound of milk and a pound of oys- 
ters as follows: 

Relative cost and mUrilive value of 7nilk and oysters 



KIKD OF FOOD. 



Milk . . . 
Oysters. 



VOLUME 



Pints. 
I 
I 



COST. 



Cents. 
.025 
.20 



PROTEID. 



PAT. 



CARBO- 
HYDRATES 



Ounces. Ounces. 
I I 0.65 
I I .20 



Ounces. 
0.7s 

•5° 



Calories. 
375 
225 



iQio] Home Economics in Rockford College 599 

From this comparison it may be seen that if we buy oysters we pay 
20 cents for approximately the same amount of nutritive material 
which can be obtained for 2^ cents spent on milk at the prices assumed. 
What then justifies the purchase of oysters? Shall one pay 17^ 
cents extra just for the oyster flavor? It can be made clear to the 
pupil that something else is involved; for milk is well worthy of being 
regarded as a staple food when one recalls the numerous ways in which 
it can be used alone or in combination with other foods. It is for this 
reason that milk would naturally be used in our diet so much more 
abundantly than oysters even if the two were of the same cost as well 
as of approximately the same nutritive value pint for pint. The ques- 
tion of value involves other considerations, such as the psychic stimu- 
lation already referred to and what has been termed the "psychic 
income" of the newer school economists, that is, the pleasure-yielding 
property of delicate flavor. This is perhaps a new way of referring to 
an old idea for it seems literally as well as figuratively true that "man 
may not live by bread alone." 

Pursuing the comparison of milk and oysters it may be pointed out 
that milk lacks the nucleo-proteids, chemically related to the purin 
bodies, which should be avoided by victims of uric acid while oysters 
contain these bodies, but if these matters are brought out the student 
should also be told that this whole question of uric acid-yielding 
bodies is regarded by the physicians as a problem of invalid dietetics 
rather than a problem for persons in normal health. The compari- 
son of oysters and milk, however, may serve to introduce the ques- 
tion of acid-forming and base-forming elements of foods as set forth in 
the work of many physiological chemists, including among others the 
results of investigations which have been published by Prof. H. C. 
Sherman of Columbia University. 

From the whole discussion we may decide that there is a time for 
milk and also a time for oysters as well as for sweetbreads, asparagus, 
and other more or less costly dainties, and that in the intelligent selec- 
tion and combination of foods of different properties as well as different 
costs lies the art of preparing an acceptable and wholesome menu. 
These conclusions perhaps can not be said to be radically different 
from those which have been reached long ago without all the "labor 
and pain" of laboratory research and study, but at least it may be 
said that when they are thus reached we are better able to give a 
reason "for the hope that is in us." 
Although in this study of the subject dietaries are planned by the 



6oo The Journal of Home Economics [December 

students for persons of different ages, occupations and income, care is 
taken to show them that, so far as everyday Uving is concerned, it is 
not essential that the diet should correspond absolutely with some 
dietary standard but rather that it should be in reasonable accord with 
such a standard when considered in long periods. Furthermore it is 
true that the calculation of the nutritive value of a diet affords the most 
convenient method of learning its character and may serve as an impor- 
tant basis for the selection and combination of foods in a reasonable 
way. If it were not for such uses, calculating the value of a diet would 
be little better than an academic exercise. Man's physical and mental 
nature is very complex and many factors influence the relish for dif- 
ferent foods as well as their digestion and assimilation. It is, therefore, 
more important to understand the broad principles of dietetics than 
to attempt to acquire a set of rules for guidance in this important part 
of the household problem. 



A LESSON IN COOKERY IN THE ELEMENTARY 
SCHOOL. 

Mrs. Alice P. Norton and Miss Jessie P. Rich.^ 

Colonel Parker used to say to his faculty something like this: "I 
have no patience with any teacher who goes before his class without 
careful and detailed preparation for his lesson; and I have as little 
patience with one who really teaches as he had planned." 

To make a plan for a cooking lesson is comparatively simple ; to tell 
just what questions will be actually asked, what direction the discus- 
sion will take, how far the suggestions of the children will lead one, is 
quite another matter. To attempt to put in static form anything so 
djoiamic as a cooking lesson almost necessarily means a failure to repro- 
duce its real and vital points. 

While the dish to be cooked remains as it was planned, the discussion 
of the how and why often leads to the emphasis of points or the trying 
of experiments that were not in the mind of the teacher to begin with. 
To inspire the children to express what lies within their own experi- 
ence, to gain from them suggestions as to methods of work, to select 
from the many suggestions those that are really worth attention, to 
determine by discussion or experiment what ones are practical or pre- 
ferable, all this means the power of adaptation, alertness, and good 
judgment. The inspiration for the best teaching must come from the 
stimulus of actual contact with the children. 

In the elementary school of the College of Education of the Univer- 
sity of Chicago, a lesson generally consists first of science work that 
forms the preparation for cooking, then of the actual carrying on of 
the cooking process, followed either in the cooking laboratory or the 
class room by the writing of the recipe used, usually in the words of 
the children. This by no means ends the matter, however. Frequently 
a whole series of science lessons is undertaken to answer questions 
that have arisen in the cooking laboratory, while reading lessons, num- 
ber lessons, and writing lessons also find their inspiration there. The 
work is interwoven with almost every other subject in the school. 

* Read at the Boston Meeting of the Educational Section of the American Home 
Economics Association, July 5, 1910. 

601 



6o2 The Journal of Home Economics [1 >ecember 

The preparation for the lesson is often done on a different day from 
the cooking, since our periods are short. A lesson is here chosen that 
might be given to either the fifth or sixth grade. 

The work of our fifth grade centers about colonial cooking, and has 
a direct connection with the history of that year. The children take 
up the typical food products, study their production and preparation, 
and in so far as possible, put themselves in sympathy with colonial 
times. Possibly more time is spent on corn as the staple article of 
diet than on any other one food stuff. Its use in the early period is 
contrasted with that of the present, and its value is compared with 
that of wheat. In discussing the various uses of corn meal the making 
of the breakfast mufiin is mentioned by the children as a present use 
in many of their homes. When a little later, they begin some study 
of doughs and batters, and come to the making of muffins, they wish 
to try in them the substitution of corn meal for flour. The question 
then as it is presented to the class is this : Can we make muffins by 
using corn meal in place of flour? The problem is approached in 
various ways by different classes. One class proposed the following 
steps of investigation. First, we must know the requirements of a 
good muffin. Second, we must know how it is made. Third, we must 
try substituting corn meal for the wheat flour in the recipe. (A ques- 
tion here brought out the advisability of substituting by weight rather 
than by measure.) Fourth, we must compare the corn meal and the 
white flour muffin and if the corn meal is not so good as the other see 
if we can tell the reason by finding out the difference between white 
flour and corn meal. 

Another class might approach the problem in this way: (i) Is corn 
flour like white flour? (2) How do they differ? (3) Will this difference 
prevent corn meal from making as good a muffin as white flour? (4) 
What special difference caused the difference in results if there was 
one? 

Either method of approach brings out practically the same facts 
and calls for the same set of experiments. The first order of procedure 
seems somewhat preferable for a younger class as it brings the cooking 
first, and uses the experiment for the explanation of the results. With 
an older class it might be better to use the experiment to lead up to 
the cooking process. The lesson is here discussed with the first order 
suggested. 

The knowledge available is that brought from daily experience at 
home, with some knowledge of proportions obtained from the making 



igio] Cookery in the Elementary School 603 

of thinner batters. This information is gotten at and summed up by 
such questions as the following: Can you describe a good muffin? 
What materials are used in making muffins? (The list suggested is 
put on the board, and the essentials selected.) Will the mixture be 
thicker or thinner than the griddle cake? How much more flour will 
be needed? 

The general proportions for muffins, formulated as far as possible by 
the children, are put on the board by the teacher as follows: 2 cups of 
flour; 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder; \ teaspoonful salt; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar; i egg; i cup of milk; and 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
Further questions are then asked, such as these : Why are the materials 
so grouped? How will you combine them? Why? What is going to 
make the muffins light? What recipe shall we use for the corn meal 
muffins? 

Weighings are made to determine the comparative amounts, and 
it is found that i\ cups of corn meal will take the place of 2 cups 
of flour. 

The directions are written on the board, and the recipe divided, 
each child making a sixth, three or four using the corn meal, the rest 
making the white flour muffins. When the muffins are baked, a 
careful comparison is made of the two kinds. Those from the corn 
meal are found smaller, drier, less light, and very crumbly. An 
attempt is then made to see if any differences in the two flours can be 
found that will account for this. (Some or all of the following experi- 
ments may be used.) 

Dough equal amounts of the two flours and wash in a bowl of 
clear water. A sticky elastic substance is found in the white flour. 
Possibly this substance is the cause of success in the muffins. Is it 
found in the corn? A few experiments to find its nature and value 
may be tried, as follows: 

(i) Through a glass tube blow into the gluten. 

(2) Drop a moist piece into hot deep fat. Try the same with 
moistened corn meal. 

(3) In one glass mix a measured amount of flour and water, in 
another an equal measure of starch and water. Now pass into 
each a gas (carbon dioxide generated by acid poured over marble 
chips). 

(4) Mix together baking powder, flour and water in one dish, 
in another baking powder, corn meal and water. Make a griddle 
cake from each. Notice and compare results. 



6o4 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

In each case it will be seen that though gluten is not what makes 
foods light, it is capable of stretching and retaining a gas. 

To return to the original question — Can we make muffins by put- 
ting corn meal in place of flour? We did not succeed ; but we have corn 
meal muffins at home. How are they made? Perhaps we might use 
corn meal instead of part of the flour, leaving enough flour to furnish 
the necessary gluten. Some child might suggest the use of more eggs. 

If the interest of the children has been sustained, a lesson may fol- 
low in which the substitution of corn meal for one-third, one-half, and 
two-thirds of the flour may be made and the results compared, till 
the proportions for the best muffins are found. 

This by no means closes the work on gluten or flour or the lighten- 
ing of doughs and batters. Instead it opens up many questions for 
further study. 

It seems impossible to put the work on paper in a way that shows 
its interest and meaning. It is certainly true that the children respond 
to it with an enthusiasm and a suggestiveness often absent in other 
types of work. The boys especially respond with many questions 
about the why and the wherefore. This is often shown in their own 
accounts of what they have done. An illustration of this is given in 
the following paper by a fifth grade child summing up a different 
lesson, but one also involving experimental work: 

We started out to make grape jelly, when some one asked whether it could be 
made without sugar. We tried many different ways. Some of us made it 
without any sugar, and some with one-fourth as much sugar. All jellied. I got 
four-fifths of a wine glass of jelly, using half a cup of juice and one^fourth of 
a cup of sugar. 

One basket of grapes cost 20 cents; three- fourths of a basket of grapes cost 
15 cents; we used three-fourths of a basket. There were fourteen children in 
the cooking class that day, and each one had half a cup of grape juice. One 
cup of grape juice cost 2] cents; one-half cup of grape juice cost ii^ cents. In 
grape jelly there is also the sugar. The sugar cost f cent and the sugar and 
juice together cost iff cents. 



HOW TO APPLY THE LABORATORY METHOD OF 
STUDY TO PRACTICAL COOKING IN HIGH SCHOOLS.^ 



Carlotta C. Greer. 

Technical High School. Cleveland, O. 

To develop reasoning power chemistry, physics and mathemat- 
ics are used, but the textbooks were prepared by men to interest boys. 
Why should not girls' activities be utilized to interest them in the 
same principle, but with a different application? Girls as a rule are 
considered very unsatisfactory students of chemistry and physics, 
I once heard an instructor in chemistry say he had such a fine class 
this year, "all boys, not a single girl to bother with." 

Problems involving terms of her experience and environment would 
certainly claim the girls' interest — I am quite sure that sugar and 
spce would be far more attractive to her than prisms, cones, and 
parfal payments In the Cleveland Technical High School, girls 
solve problems involving the cost of foods; the relation of the nutri- 
tive value to the cost of food, and the method of preparation; compari- 
son of one method of cookery with another, as to economy of time 
and fuel; division of quantities used in the ordinary recipe, in order 
that the student may appreciate the relation of the individual to the 
practical quantities; formation of recipes; and questions in household 
hygiene. 

Data for these problems are obtained for the most part from obser- 
vations and measurements made in the school kitchen. While skill 
is being acquired in preparing a food material in the kitchen labor- 
atory, valuable information concerning the same food is received from 
propositions and solutions of mathematical problems. By way of 
illustration, a few of these applied problems are here reproduced, as 
follows : 

(i) Coffee sugar is 98 per cent pure sugar, while granulated sugar 
is 100 per cent pure sugar. Coffee sugar costs 5^ cts. and granulated 
sugar 6 cts. per lb. Which is the cheaper? 

^ A condensation of a paper read at the Boston meeting of the Educational 
Section of the American Home Economics Association, July 8, 1910. 

60s 



6o6 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

(2) Granulated sugar sells at 6 cts. per lb., or $1.45 for 25 lbs. 
If a family uses 4 lbs. of sugar per week, how much can be saved in 
a year by buying it in twenty-five pound quantities? 

(3) A can of dried beef cost 15 cts. and contained 4.6 oz. of meat. 
Dried beef in bulk sold for 35 cts. per pound. How many ounces of 
beef in bulk could be purchased for 15 cts? What percentage is 
saved by buying it in bulk rather than in cans? 

(4) A grown person needs 3000 cu. ft. of air per hour. If a room 
14 by 12 by 10 ft. were occupied by one person, how often would the 
air have to be completely changed to obtain pure air? 

(5) According to Fisher, one large egg and one shredded wheat 
biscuit each yield 100 calories of energy. The dietary standard for a 
girl of twelve years is 1276 calories. Assuming that the food at 
breakfast should produce one-third of this quantity, what part of it 
will be supplied by the biscuit and egg? 

(6) How many potatoes are cooked in your home per day? There 
are 144 medium-sized potatoes in a bushel. How many bushels of 
potatoes are used in your home per month? When potatoes sell at 
80 cts. per bushel, how much is spent for potatoes in your home dur- 
ing a month? 

(7) A loaf of bread weighed 15^ oz. but after the crusts were re- 
moved it weighed 14^ oz. What percentage of the loaf was crust? 
If bread costs 5 cts. per loaf, what is the cost of the crusts? If a 
family uses 3 loaves of bread per week for toast from which the crusts 
are removed, how much would the waste amount to in a month, if the 
crusts were not utilized for other purposes? What percentage of the 
cost of the loaf would be waste? 

(8) The proportions of baking powder, fat, moisture, and salt to 
flour, and of eggs to baking powder for batters and doughs are stated, 
then such a problem given as the following: Write a recipe for 
waffles, making them economical as well as palatable when eggs sell 
for 45 cts. per dozen, using 3 cups of flour for the basis. 

(9) Counting fuel and cost of materials, 4 doz. cookies can be 
made for 31 cts. At the bakery cookies cost 10 cents per dozen. 
Find the difference in cost between "home made" and ''bakery" 
cookies. To mix and bake 4 doz. cookies at home requires 2 hours. 
If a woman can earn 15 cts. per hour, is it cheaper for her to buy or 
make cookies? How much cheaper? 

(10) Pea soup to serve six can be prepared from i can of peas cost- 
ing 12 cts. or from i cup of split peas costing 6 cts. per lb. (i lb. split 



igio] Practical Cooking in High Schools 607 

peas measures 2 cups) . Fifteen minutes are required to cook the 
canned peas, and 3^ hours to cook the split peas. The simmering 
burner on which these goods should be cooked consumes 3.6 cu. ft. 
of gas per hour; gas costs 75 cts. per 1000 cu. ft. Which kind of 
peas is it cheaper to use? 

An attempt is being made in the Cleveland High School to teach 
girls to cook by having them do much cooking and at the same time 
treat processes of cooking as experiments of an ordinary scientific 
subject. Writers of laboratory manuals of exact sciences aid begin- 
ners in developing skill in manipulation and powers of observation 
by not only giving directions for the methods of preparation of a sub- 
stance, but also by inserting suggestions and questions which will 
cause the student to look for changes and draw conclusions as to their 
cause. In preparing oxygen, the student writes in his note book the 
method of preparation, and the appearance, properties, and behavior, 
when different materials come in contact with it. Our methods of 
teaching are analogous to those used in science laboratories, in that 
directions for methods of cooking foods are given, then suggestions 
and questions are added to aid the student in comprehending what 
she is doing and what is taking place. The observations made are 
recorded in a note book. In arranging our practical lessons, we have 
given such directions and questions as to have the student observe 
changes in foods as heat is applied, and make a comparison of one 
method of cookery wdth another, including the relative nutritive 
value from two methods of cooking the same foods. 

A lesson on boiled and steamed rice, for instance, includes such 
directions as these: Compare the quantity of water used for boiling 
and steaming rice. Why is a larger amount used for boiled rice? 
How is rice tested for sufficient cooking? Why does it take rice a 
shorter time to cook than most of the wheat and oat foods? Test 
the water from boiled rice with iodine for starch. Which method 
of cooking rice leaves the more nutrition in the cooked product? 
What is the difference in appearance of steamed and boiled rice? 
What ingredient does rice contain which makes it possible to mold it? 
Which is better for molding — steamed or boiled rice? Why? 

Here is a lesson on plain and whole-wheat biscuits in which some 
were made by using one-half cup of fat, and others by using two table 
spoonfuls of fat. Compare biscuits made with little fat, as to texture, 
appearance and taste, with those made with a greater quantity. 
What is the effect of increasing the quantity of fat? How much flour 



6o8 The Journal of Home Economics December 

was used for biscuits in this lesson? How many biscuits were made 
from this quantity? Note the quantity given in the practical recipe. 
How many biscuits will this make? Tabulate the chemical composi- 
tion of white and whole wheat flour. On the basis of the table, which 
is the better tissue builder? Why? What is the weight of a sack of 
flour of ordinary size? How many cupfuls are contained in one 
pound of flour? What is the present market price per sack? 

If a lesson is given in which it is necessary to do a little experi- 
menting, aside from practical cooking, the students not only perform 
the experiment, but in a methodical way record the procedure, giving 
process, result and conclusions or practical applications of the experi- 
ment. Only such experiments are given as will demonstrate prin- 
ciples which can be directly applied to methods of cooking or diges- 
tion. The application is always made at once by practical work. 
During the first year, special stress is placed upon the function of 
foods and their digestibility to correlate with physiology and botany — 
the sciences required of freshman girls. From a lesson on sugar in 
which different kinds of sugar are dissolved that the student may 
comprehend what solution is, the application is at once made to diges- 
tion by developing the fact that digestion involves solution, and all 
foods must be dissolved or changed by a somewhat similar process 
before they can be assimilated. Experiments, when the subject of 
fat is given for a lesson, have later proved quite helpful to the imma- 
ture students in getting some notions of fat digestion. 

During the first year of the Cleveland Technical High School, there 
was a class of girls in applied chemistry who had had no training in 
domestic science. The work of this class and of the succeeding class 
to which one year's work in domestic science had been given was 
compared, and the conclusion made that the students of the second 
class were much more apt in grasping scientific study. It would seem, 
therefore, that we have somewhat accomplished an aim in not only 
teaching girls to cook, but in also laying the foundation for the labora- 
tory method of study. If so, this is no small accomplishment. Ob- 
viously it is impossible for any school room to furnish the same en- 
vironment or for any student to experience the same conditions as will 
be found in the various homes. The best the teacher can do to train 
the student to fill the responsibility of home keeping is to give her 
definite instruction in methods of housewifery and at the same time 
train her intellect to such resourcefulness that she may be able to 
master any situation, however trying. 



HOW TO TEACH THE PREPARATION OF MEALS/ 
Florence Willard. 

Washington Irving High School, New York City. 

Many of the pupils who reach the high schools have had work in 
domestic science in the elementary school and the practical part of 
the course is sometimes a problem. As far as the mental develop- 
ment is concerned, the high school pupil is not very far in advance 
of the elementary pupil, and in the first years is not ready for experi- 
mental work in cooking. But psychologically she dUBfers. She no 
longer cares to cook only one muffin or to boil one potato; she is no 
longer content to scrub and clean. She wants to feel that the work 
is in advance of the elementary work. 

The pupils come to us with a fair knowledge of foods and the 
general methods of cooking. It seems to me that it is best to take 
advantage of this, and use the knowledge in the combination of foods 
for simple meals instead of going on in the realms of fancy cooking. 

The usual cooking period is from 90 to 120 minutes long. To cook 
a meal in this time in a school kitchen is a difficult problem. It can 
be done, however, if carefully planned. 

Most of the menus will have to be talked over in a previous lesson. 
At first they should consist entirely of things which the pupils know 
how to cook. When the pupils enter the room the menu should be 
on the black board, and the recipes written on the board or type- 
written copies distributed. 

There is no time for a lecture at the beginning of the lesson. A 
few general instructions will be necessary, but the pupil should begin 
work at once. 

The proper distribution of supplies is most important. I have 
found that placing supplies in groups, where not more than four or 
five pupils use them, expedites matters a great deal. All lessons 
should finish in time for the pupil to compare and record results. 

As has been suggested, begin with a simple menu. A breakfast is 
the best meal . The menu has been planned and consists, for example, 

1 Read at the Boston Meeting of the Educational Section, of the American 
Home Economics Association, July 6, 1910. 

609 



6io The Journal of Home Economics [December 

of stewed fruit, cereal, toast, eggs and coffee. Divide the class into 
groups of four or five, depending upon the size of the class. Have 
each group cooking one thing, using proportions large enough to serve 
the entire class with small servings. All this can be easily accom- 
plished in the first lesson, but there will not be time to serve the break- 
fast properly. The serving of these breakfasts at the end of the 
cooking lesson amounts to each pupil setting an individual place for 
herself and being served by one pupil from each group. 

A lesson should very soon be given where nothing is cooked, where 
the whole stress of the lesson is placed on the serving and where the 
pupils go through the actual process. Parts of the class act as host, 
hostess and guests, others take turn as servers. Lessons should also 
be given illustrating the home life where no maid is kept and no one 
person serves, except perhaps a younger member of the household. 

At least three lessons should be devoted to cooking breakfast where 
the class is divided into groups of four or five. Change the arrange- 
ment each time, so that pupils who cook cereals one time cook eggs 
another, and so on. Follow these lessons with three lessons where 
the pupils cook in groups of two, with amounts large enough for two 
people. Change the menu each time, having a different fruit, different 
bread, etc. Do not change the method of cooking, however, except 
perhaps for the eggs. 

Each pupil should now be ready to prepare a breakfast alone, using, 
for economy only, individual amounts. Two lessons are necessary 
to make each pupil thoroughly confident that she can prepare a 
breakfast entirely by herself. It is a good plan to follow this with a 
test breakfast, cooked and served for six people, dividing the work 
evenly among the pupils, the teacher being among the guests and 
giving no help whatever. 

Luncheon, being another simple meal, should next betaughf 
Begin as with the breakfasts, cooking in groups of four or five Have 
the menu consist of cream of vegetable, lentil or split pea soups, 
biscuits, or some hot bread, and a beverage. Three lessons should 
be given where the pupils cook in groups of four or five, three lessons 
in groups of two, and two lessons where each pupil cooks alone. 
Vary the menu to include simple salads. Bread and rolls can be 
reviewed in the luncheon lessons if the classes work in rotation, one 
class making the dough, another baking it, etc. 

The fancy methods of cooking vegetables, fried tomatoes, corn 
fritters, stuffed peppers, and fancy egg dishes, may be readily taught 
for the luncheon dishes. 



igio] How to Teach the Preparation of Meals 6ii 

Suppers are so nearly like luncheons that they follow next in order. 
Drop the soup from the menu and add a simple dessert, like cake, 
combining with the cake some of the preserves that adorn all of our 
exhibit cases. The biscuit dough may be turned into short-cake, 
Dutch apple cake, etc. As is always the case in cooking entire meals, 
there must never be but one new dish in each lesson. 

Dinner, the most elaborate meal and requiring the greatest skill, 
is taken up last in the group. Here, if the classes work in rotation, 
a soup stock can be prepared by a previous class and used in the 
following classes: 

The dinners will have to include the meat lessons. Begin as before, 
working in groups of four or five, then in twos and then individually. 
At the end an examination dinner should be cooked and served 
by the entire class. If the dinner of the day is to include broiled 
steak, and the pupils are working in groups of twos, cut the steak into 
two-inch squares, and have each two pupils broil the small pieces 
over the individual stoves. The same plan works with the roasts. 
Cut a roast into small pieces, divide them among the pupils, and 
have each pupil season and roast her piece in a small pan. Liver may 
be braised in this individual way surrounded by vegetables. 

The soups, the desserts and the salads should all be reviews of the 
lunches and suppers. The constant repetition prevents cooking a 
great variety of dishes. The value lies in the pupil's being absolutely 
familiar with all the dishes prepared. 

The clock must be constantly watched to accomplish the program 
planned for each lesson. One must work against time. Gauge the 
time it should take to accomplish a certain amount of work. Tell 
the class that it must be done in that time. This spurs on the slow 
pupils and keeps back the hustling, careless ones. If a class learns 
to work together much more can be accomplished. We work for 
speed in the Washington Irving High School in New York, and have 
many exercises called "speed tests." The first pupil to finish has the 
highest mark for speed and she is almost invariably one of the neatest 
and best workers as well. 

Half of the women to-day spend too much time in housework; 
working slowly is a bad habit to contract. We all know housekeepers 
who have beautifully well managed and clean homes, and yet have 
plenty of time for outside work and social enjoyment. We also know 
housekeepers w^ho are eternally at work and never have time for any- 
thing but to complain. We do not wish to train housekeepers of this 
type. 



6i2 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

The cost of materials in teaching meals is an item to be considered. 
While it costs ordinarily two cents per pupil a lesson to teach domestic 
science, I have found that teaching meals in this way costs four cents 
per pupil a lesson. We have tried occasionally serving the meals 
to teachers and thus lessening the expense. That is only practical with 
the mid-day lesson, and the pupils always are disappointed, so we 
have not done much in that line. We never have any trouble in dis- 
posing of the food cooked; our pupils are always hungry. Most of 
them, if they get the chance, will eat their luncheon before ten o'clock. 

It is often amusing to note the kind of food that is suggested when 
the menus are being planned. The most popular article for break- 
fast is chocolate cake. If one can stand it, I suppose it furnishes 
more calories than a roll, and is not any worse than pie; but as the 
average stomach cannot stand pie and cake for breakfast we endeavor 
to teach them that rolls are better. The dessert they always wish 
is ice cream, and although the Hebrew is not allowed oysters, "oysters 
on the half shell" is apt to be inserted in any menu written by the 
girls. "Demi-tasse" is always popular, and that no meal should ever 
be served without seltzer seems to be a rule in many households. 

One of the advantages when entire meals are cooked is the skill 
that is acquired in manipulation. It is not of great value to know 
how to cook only one thing at a time, for the successful housekeeper 
must literally have many irons in the fire. She must learn to calcu- 
late for each dish that is to be cooked. Things must be started in 
proper rotation. The average pupil will prepare the coffee before 
the cereal, but she doesn't do it more than once. Preparing meals 
in the school kitchen also teaches economy in the use of cooking uten- 
sils, which is a valuable habit to acquire. 

The planning of the meals reveals to our foreign pupils what Ameri- 
cans eat, and what they can conveniently buy. They cannot find 
their native foods here, and when they substitute American foods at 
their own discretion, they make many unhealthful combinations. 

The home work during the entire course calls for the study of 
prices and amounts needed to be purchased. The recent meat wars 
in New York have made my pupils very keen on the cost of foods, 
especially substitutes for foods like meat at its present prices. 

After pupils have an idea of what a meal should consist, a good 
basis has been formed to work out the actual amounts needed by the 
calorie calculations. 



THE USE OF THE 100-CALORIE PORTION AS A CON- 

VENIENT MEANS FOR CALCULATING THE FOOD 

VALUE OF A GIVEN DIET. 

Rachel H. Colwell. 

To Professor Fisher of Yale is due the suggestion of the loo-calorie 
portion. He has worked out^ tables giving the weight, the approximate 
bulk and the calories derived from protein, fat, and carbohydrates in 
a loo-calorie portion of some of the common foods. By weighing and 
then measuring in the laboratory some of these loo-calorie portions 
we can obtain a practical notion of the relative calorific values of the 
different foods. 

The use of these results enables us to approximate rapidly the num- 
ber of calories of the food served at a given meal. As an example, 
take a breakfast, consisting of one large orange, one shredded wheat 
biscuit, I cup of milk, one large egg, one thick slice of bread (sufl5ci- 
ent for two slices of toast), one tablespoon of butter for the toast, 
and five teaspoons sugar. Each of these items contains approxi- 
mately ICO calories, making a total of 700 calories. 

If it is desired to arrange a breakfast menu for six people it is merely 
necessary to take six loo-calorie portions instead of one. 

Often one wishes to know the relation of the calories derived from 
protein to the total calories. That, of course, requires some calcula- 
tion, but it can certainly be done more rapidly by this method. Let 
us take as an example the breakfast before us. In the case of the 
orange the table gives 6 calories from protein in a loo-calorie portion. 
Since the nutritive ratio is the relation of the number of calories of 
protein to those from the other nutrients, 100—6 = 94 -^ 6 = 15 +, or 
the nutritive ratio of the orange is i :i5 + . Applying this to the whole 
breakfast and estimating the nutritive ratio of the entire meal for 6 
persons instead of the individual portion, we have the results shown in 
the following table: 

• Amer. J. Physiol. 15 (1906), No. 5, pp. 417-32; J. Amer. Med. Assn. 48 (1907), 
No. 16, pp. 1316-25; Bui. Amer. School Home Economic. Series i, 1909, pp. 33. 

613 



6i4 



The Journal oj Home Economics 



"^December 



Calculation by the loo-calorie portion method of the relative amounts of energy derived 
from protein in a typical breakfast for six persons . 



KIND OF FOOD. 



NUMBER I 
OF lOO- TOTAL 
CALORIE I CALORIES. 
PORTIONS. I 



CALORIES 
DERIVED 

FROM 
PROTEIN. 



6 large . . . 
6 biscuits . 



4 J cups . 



Oranges 

Shredded wheat 

Milk 

Eggs ' 6 large 

Bread I 6 thick slices 

Sugar j s teaspoons 

Butter I 6 level tablespoons. 



Total. 



6oo 
6oo 
6oo 
6oo 
6oo 
6oo 
6oo 



36 

78 

114 

192 

78 



42 



4200 



SOI 



As 4200 total calories — 501 calories from protein = 3699 calories 
and 3699 -j-501 = 7 +, the nutritive ratio = 1:7 +. 

The same use of the loo-calorie portion may be made in determining 
the number of calories in a recipe. Take as an example a custard: 



Calculation of the energy value of custard from the raw ingredients by the loo-calorie 

portion method. 



KIND OF MATERIAL. 



NUMBER OF 

CALORIE 
■ PORTIONS. 



TOTAL 
CALORIES. 



CALORIES 
DERIVED 

FROM 
PROTEIN. 



Eggs.. 
Milk.. 
Sugar . 



Total. 



6 

4 cups . 
^cup.. 



6 
6.4 
4.8 



600 
640 
480 



17. 2 



1720 



192 
122 
480 



314 



As 1720 total calories— 314 calories from protein = 1406 calories, 
and 1406 -T- 314 = 4 + , the nutritive ratio = 1:4 + . If the custard 
served six persons, then each one had nearly three loo-calorie por- 
tions. 

In conclusion it seems fair to say that we must get away from de- 
tailed calculations with pencil and paper in our dietary work if we 
would make it of such practical value that it can guide the housekeeper 
in the collection and combination of food material for the family. 



HOW TO USE THE lOO-CALORIE PORTION IN DIETARY 

TEACHING IN HIGH SCHOOLS.' 

Mabel Wellman. 

In the first place we will suppose the class has had the usual training 
in cooking, understands what is meant by carbohydrates, fat and pro- 
tein, and knows something of the chief functions of these as foods. In 
connection with the discussion of the use of foods to furnish energy 
there must be made clear that rather difificult point of what we mean by 
energy, the various manifestations of force, and how one of these can 
be transformed into another. If the class has had physics, they follow 
the idea readily, otherwise a good deal of illustration is needed. Then 
can be raised the question, to be answered by all the rest of the dietetic 
study — How can we know how much food to take, whether we have 
eaten enough, or too much, or if it has been made up of the right pro- 
portions of food materials? 

That appetite is not and cannot be a safe guide can easily be estab- 
lished by a consideration of the way in which little children would 
satisfy their appetites if left to themselves. The class will readily see, 
too, that the amount of food necessary must differ from person to 
person with the individual need for energy: first, with the size of the 
body and the effect of temperature and clothing in influencing the heat 
loss; second, with the amount of work done, this meaning both amount 
of activity and the need of repair; and third, with age, since that 
modifies building requirements, repair and activity. 

Now, we can suggest to the class the possibility of measuring all 
this in terms of heat, since a given form of energy is but one manifes- 
tation of force; then the measure of power to heat, or of fuel value, 
the large calorie, must be worked out. Next can be taken up the usual 
study of how we determine the needs of the body by both the statistical 
method and the "man-in-the-box" method. Whichever standard 
the teacher decides to give can follow at this point as usual — only the 

1 Presented at the Boston Meeting of the Household Arts Section of the Amer- 
ican Home Economics Association, July 5-6, 1910. 

61S 



6 1 6 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

standard should be translated into calories before being presented to 
the class, as they will have no need of knowing the standard in grams of 
protein, fat and carbohydrates. As the tendency of the day seems to be 
to give the standard only in protein and energy this still further sim- 
plifies the work. For example, Dr. Langworthy's standard^ becomes, 
using 4.1 calories for each gram of protein, "for a man in full vigor at 
moderate work, food as eaten, protein sufficient to furnish 430.5 
calories, and fats and carbo-hydrates sufficient to make a total of 3500 
calories.' 

This is one calorie from protein to eight total calories; that is, 3500 
calories of food must be eaten daily and one-eighth of these should be 
furnished by protein. 

Now, suppose we agree to make dinner contain half of the day's 
ration, and breakfast and luncheon each a quarter. (This special 
proportion need not necessarily be chosen, as any preferred arrange- 
ment may be made). Suppose lunch foreperson has consisted of 
one glass of milk, one boiled egg, two slices of bread, butter, and one 
banana. Is this food in correct proportion, and is it enough? If so, 
according to our standard it should furnish 107.6 calories from pro- 
tein and a total of 875 calories. 

Using Fisher's table^ we find the following: 

CALORIES FROM TOTAL 
PROTEIN. CALORIES. 

Small glass milk 19 100 

One large egg 32 100 

Two slices bread 26 200 

Butter 0.5 100 

One large banana 54 100 

Total 82.5 600 

We have here only 600 total calories as against the 875 needed, 
so evidently this is not enough for the man under the given conditions. 
Dividing 600 by 82.5 we have the ratio of calories from protein to total 
calories of 1:7.3. Since 1:8 was our standard, this lunch is evidently 
not rightly proportioned, being high in protein. 

As much adaptation of the standard to varying conditions may be 
made as is desired by the teacher. If the "average man" weighs 154 
pounds and the average girl in the class 100 pounds the necessary 

* U. S. Department Agriculture, Year Book, 1907, p. 370. 

* J. Amer. Med. Assn., 48 (1907), No. 16, pp. 1316-35. 



iQio] How to Use the lOo-Calorie Portion 617 

modification of the standard is reasonably easy to find. For our lunch 
it would be 154:100= io7.6:x (practically 70 calories from protein) , 
and 154:100= 875 :x (568 calories). The calculated lunch then would 
have been adequate as to energy for the person weighing only 100 
pounds, but too high in protein. 

In order to make the work practical much weighing of i co-calorie 
portions must be done, but the exhibit of the amounts of food having 
equal fuel value catches the eye and is easy to remember. The piled- 
up plate of pickles contrasted with the lump and a half of sugar; the 
small glass of milk and the one shredded wheat biscuit; the one 
small chop, the slice of bread, or the one large potato, take on new mean- 
ing as to the part they play as equivalents in total calories in nutri- 
tion. But the servings mentioned in the table as "ordinary," "small," 
or "large" must be weighed out in detail, for people differ greatly as to 
the amount of an "ordinary" serving. If each member of the class 
cuts what she thinks is an ordinarily thick slice of bread, the slices 
will differ surpiisingly. Dr. Fisher gives the weight of such a slice as 
38 grams, the Battle Creek dietary list puts it at 28 grams, and what 
my class finally agreed upon as an ordinary slice of baker's bread 
weighed only 20 grams. 

Even aside from this work, the ease of comparison of food values 
makes the loo-calories portion method quite worth while. For example, 
one day I was asked in class if it were true that dried fruits were a 
cheaper source of protein than meat. I turned to Fisher's table and 
suggested that we compare pork chops and dates. 

The loo-calorie portion of dates is i oz., contains 2 calories from 
protein, and at 10 cents a pound, costs 6 mills. The 10 cents worth of 
dates would furnish 32 caloiies from protein, each of which would cost 
approximately 3 mills. If the chops were 28 cents a pound, and there 
were four in the pound, each chop, representing 4 loo-calorie portions 
would cost 7 cents. Seventy-two of the 400 calories would be from 
protein, or one mill for one calorie from protein. So, although the 
loo-calorie portion of meat is nearly three times as expensive as the 
dates, as a source of protein the meat is very much the cheaper. 

Shredded wheat biscuit, sometimes ranked as an expensive form of 
cereal food, costs about 9 mills a biscuit or a loo-calorie portion, and 
the protein furnishes 13 calories, or i calorie from protein for 0.7 
mills, and is a somewhat cheaper source of protein than either the 
dates or the meat, although more expensive considered solely as a 
source of total energy than the dates. 



6i8 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

All that is necessary to make these calculations is the market price 
per pound and Fisher's table. 

Finally, it is very simple by the calorie method to arrange a meal that 
will conform with the standard, and the actual cooking and serving of 
such a meal with a carefully kept record of cost, trains the eye in 
recognizing relative food values in relation to money cost. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY TO HOME 
ECONOMICS. 

William J. Gies.^ 

Biological chemistry, considered from the standpoint of its greatest 
usefulness, is primarily chemical biology. Its foundations are physics, 
chemistry and biology. Biological chemistry, as a science, is chemical 
knowledge of biological substances and processes, i.e., substances 
that commonly enter, or that are produced in, or are derived from, 
organisms; and processes that ordinarily aflfect, or that occur in, or 
are modified by, organisms. Biological chemistry ,'_as an art. is funda- 
mentally chemical in method and primarily biological in purpose. 
The biological chemist seeks to determine the nature of biological 
phenomena by chemical means; he does not attempt to establish 
purely chemical laws through biological agencies. 

Among the leading subdivisions of biological chemistry are physio- 
logical chemistry, • pathological chemistry, pharmacology, agricul- 
tural chemistry, botanical chemistry, and bacteriological chemistry. 
Physiological chemistry is the chemical branch of physiology, i.e., 
the chemistry of substances and processes pertaining to healthy or- 
ganisms. Physiological chemistry is physical chemistry, inorganic 
chemistry and organic chemistry applied to physiology. 

The substances that engage the attention of the physiological 
chemist are very numerous in kind. They range in diversity of 
molecular character from the very simplest inorganic salts, e.g., sodium 
chloride, to the most complex organic compounds, e.g., nucleoprotein. 
The processes that form a large portion of the subject-matter of 
physiological chemistry are not only numerous in kind and varied in 
character, but often are also unique; and many are wholly inexpli- 
cable on the basis of our present knowledge. 

Normal organisms are specially constituted to achieve two funda- 
mental biological results, viz., their self-preservation and repro- 

' Presented at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, December 31, 1909. 

619 



620 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

duction. In efifecting its own nutrition, an organism directly adds 
to its mass and enlarges its structure, as in growth; or it mainly 
"repairs" its parts, directly or indirectly from nutrient material, as 
in maturity. Nutrient materials (as a group) also supply energy, 
in one form or another, which is available for transformations to 
the advantage of the organism. Normal reproduction is, in effect, 
the nutrition of immature organisms derived directly from mature 
ones. 

These two major functions of normal organisms (self-preservation 
and reproduction) are, in effect, the development, repair and repro- 
duction of structure, as well as the maintenance of continuity in coor- 
dinated chemical processes. The mechanico-chemical functions of 
an organism (external respiration, heart-beat, excretion, etc.) are 
contributory to the highest efficiency of the major functions just 
mentioned, and, therefore, are essentially nutritional in ultimate 
significance. The chemical nature (composition) of an organism, 
as well as the peculiarities and functions of its tissues, are best under- 
stood when studied with due regard for the relations of all the parts 
and constituents to the nutritional processes. 

Normal nutrition, whether in growth, in maturity, or in old age, 
is primarily chemical in method and constitutes the chief subject- 
matter of physiological chemistry. Pathological chemistry comprises 
the facts pertaining to nutrition in disease. The hygiene of nutrition 
is obviously a matter of fundamental personal and domestic importance. 

With these ideas on the general nature and practical import of 
biological chemistry before us, I believe I can best perform the func- 
tion allotted to me by presenting a general outline of the principal 
course in elementary physiological chemistry which we have been 
giving for about six years at the Columbia Medical School, which we 
have lately introduced at the N. Y. Teacher's College, and which, I 
feel, is particularly well adapted for the instruction of all whose 
interests include an understanding of the principles of general nutri- 
tion and dietetics, or any other chemical phase of biology. 

In the course to which I allude, we place at the foundation of our 
experiments and discussions, the chemistry of typical cells as the units 
of living structure and the essential factors in biological dynamics. 
Every organism consists primarily of one or more cells. The higher 
organisms consist not only of cells but contain also much important 
material that is produced by and in their cells, but which is extracel- 
lular in location. Life is so intimately associated with intracellular 



iQio] Relation of Biological Chemistry to Home Economics 621 

chemical transformations of energy that it seems to be dependent on, 
and apparently is an expression of, such intracellular changes. Many 
of the extracellular changes in organisms are of minor importance in 
the maintenance of life. 

Chemical transformations of energy always involve chemical alter- 
ations of substances, i.e., the production of one group of substances 
from another. Cells consist of mixtures of complex substances, 
which collectively, during the life of the cells containing them, con- 
tinuously undergo life-maintaining chemical and physical alterations. 
Such changes involve the consumption of useful and, to some extent, 
of necessary intracellular substances, with an attendant production 
of certain simpler compounds ("waste products") that are of no use 
to the cells (catabolism). Accumulation of waste products in a cell 
interferes there mechanically and chemically with further beneficial 
transformations. Waste products are promptly ejected from normal 
cells. 

Cells cannot retain their structural integrity, and are also unable 
to maintain their dynamic capacity, unless the life-giving intracellular 
processes of consumption and excretion (catabolism) are accompanied 
or followed by compensatory intracellular processes of repair, or 
direct replacement, or both (anabolism). This general conception 
furnishes the key to the whole subject of physiological chemistry. 
It carries us to the foundation of chemical biology. It emphasizes 
the cardinal fact that the utilization, removal and replacement of 
materials by an organism are expressions of its collective cellular 
requirements and pecuharities. 

In this introductory phase of the course to which I am alluding, the 
composition and constituents of typical cellular masses (protoplasm) 
are studied; the leading cellular constituents are isolated and their 
structural as well as their dynamic relationships are indicated, so far 
as that is possible. This portion of the course is also intended to 
establish general principles regarding the origin and chemical nature 
of cellular constituents, the functions of cellular compounds, and the 
processes that characterize cellular activity and power. Both bo- 
tanical and zoological materials are studied experimentally in these 
connections. 

We then raise the question: How do animal cells obtain the ma- 
terials required for their "repairs" and for the replacement of the 
substances consumed and removed in the life-giving transformations, 
i.e., how are the cells nourished? The answer is found, in part, in 



62 2 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

an intimate study of the physical and chemical properties of lymph 
and blood, which are the essential and active intermediaries in the 
exchange of materials in the animal organism (metabolism). "The 
circulatory system is the commissariat of the physiological army." 
The mechanico-chemical processes, by which cells obtain (assimilate) 
and blood and lymph yield nutrient materials, are considered both 
from theoretical and practical standpoints. The mechanical and 
chemical relationships between the cells and the blood, lymph, and 
"tissue juices" in general, are emphasized. We show that in the 
exercise of their local absorptive, digestive, transformative and con- 
structive processes, the tissue cells obtain from blood and lymph the 
materials that are utilized directly or indirectly for the maintenance 
of cellular structure and the continuance of cellular activities. 

Having established the direct nutritional dependence of animal 
cells upon constituents of the blood and lymph, we lead the student 
into a study of the substances and processes involved in the renewal 
of such constituents of blood and lymph as are utilized (assimilated) 
by the cells. This inquiry is, in effect : How is the supply of nutrients 
for the cells maintained in the blood and lymph? The chief subjects 
for consideration in this connection are internal and external respira- 
tion, and alimentation and absorption. The oxidative processes and 
gaseous exchanges involved in respiration are followed in detail. 
Under the general head of alimentation we study the composition, 
digestibility and general nutritive values of typical foods. The 
various digestive processes are fully treated, the influences of bacteria 
in the alimentary tract are considered, and the composition of feces, 
as well as the significance of its chief constituents, is noted. The 
channels of absorption are followed, and the qualities of the absorbable 
digestive products, as well as the transformations such products 
undergo, prior to and after their incorporation into the blood, are 
given due emphasis. 

In the study of alimentation and absorption it is shown, for example, 
that food, which ordinarily consists for the most part of heterogeneous 
masses containing many complex substances, is chemically converted 
into fairly homogeneous liquid mixtures containing comparatively 
few, and relatively simple, nutrient products. The student learns 
that chief among the digestive products are monosaccharids, mainly 
glucose (representing primarily the food starches), glycerin and fatty 
acids or corresponding soaps (representing chiefly the food fats), and 
amino-acids (representing the food proteins). The student is also 



igio] Relation of Biological Chemistry to Home Economics 623 

taught, as clearly as possible in this connection, that the digestive 
and absorptive processes are analogous, in their results, to the achieve- 
ments of stone cutters and masons. Stone cutters convert rock 
masses of various shapes and dimensions into massive construction 
units, of a few types and sizes, which masons put into harmonious 
relationships in the erection, repair, or extension of buildings on 
definite plans. The digestive processes convert organic food sub- 
stances, of many different types and molecular configurations, into 
molecular construction units of a few kinds and sizes, which, in most 
cases, are specially adapted for immediate conversion into com- 
pounds characteristic of normal blood and lymph. Various groups 
of cells along the absorptive channels actively rearrange many of 
these organic molecular construction units into normal blood and 
lymph constituents of the more complex types. 

The opposite phase of cellular nutrition is next brought forward. 
How are waste products eliminated from the cells? What are the 
local and systemic influences and general fate of the various kinds of 
waste products? The gaseous eliminations having been considered 
in the prior study of respiration, and the gastro-intestinal excretions 
having been discussed in connection with the previous observations 
on feces, further attention (though for the time being only in a general 
way), is now given to local and general excretion, especially from 
the skin and kidneys. 

This sequence in the consideration of subjects enables us to proceed 
easily and logically from a study of the typical individual cell, of cells 
in general, and of the body as a whole, to examinations of specific 
parts of the organism, i.e.,oi the groups of specialized cells, the respec- 
tive tissues and organs. Such examinations develop the esssential 
facts regarding tissue structure and composition, as well as the local 
and general functional relationships of the peculiar tissue constituents. 
The relative chemical activities and the corresponding nutritive 
demands of the tissues as specialized parts are duly emphasized, and 
the way is prepared for final and more detailed considerations of 
general metabolism, the nature and metabolic significance of the 
various urinary constituents, and food requirements and selection. 

The laboratory work of this course (6 hours per week for a half 
year) is extended into every important phase of the general subject. 
The formal lectures (two weekly), besides correlating the results of 
the experiments and demonstrations with the essential principles, 
are devoted to various general themes that cannot be given objective 



624 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

treatment in the time allotted for the course, such as chemical coordi- 
nations in the body, the chemical processes in embryonic develop- 
ment and lactation, chemical defenses of the organism against disease, 
biochemical effects of medicines and other foreign agents, typical 
biochemical perversions associated with disease, etc. The course is 
designed to establish fundamental biochemical principles, and to 
develop capacity and confidence in the interpretation of biochemical 
phenomena. 

The prerequisites of such a course as I have just outlined are physics, 
general chemistry, organic chemistry, and physiology or general 
biology. It is impossible to understand the scientific and practical 
aspects of general nutrition and dietetics without the knowledge 
afforded by such a course in physiological chemistry. 

If my remarks have led you to the conclusion that, in the course 
I have outlined, every problem is viewed from its relation to the 
central fact that the cells are the units of structure and the centers 
or agents of biological power and activity, one of my main expecta- 
tions has been realized. It is customary in many quarters, in the 
study and exposition of the data of normal metabolism, to deal largely 
in nutritional and dietetic generalities — to consider the body as a 
whole, but to disregard the chemical peculiarities of its parts and to 
ignore the eccentricities of local (tissue) chemical behavior. Nutri- 
tion and dietetics should be studied and taught, in connection with 
related subjects pertaining to Home Economics, for the purpose of 
establishing healthy dietary customs, and thereby preventing malnu- 
trition and consequent disease; and also in order to provide informa- 
tion leading to the relief, and if possible to the cure, of metabolic dis- 
orders by adequate nutritional readjustments. Such study and 
instruction should be based on the fullest knowledge of the peculiari- 
ties of cell chemistry in general and of tissue chemistry in particular, 
both in health and disease. 

I am sure you will agree with me when I say that investigations of 
the kinds and quantities of food supplies shipped into Boston, and 
inquiries regarding the general selection and preparation of such 
materials, the main channels of their distribution and the methods 
of their transportation to the various parts of the city, together with 
determinations of the nature and peculiarities of Boston's sewage 
and sewage system, would fail to afford correct or adequate concep- 
tions of Boston's dietary characteristics or requirements. We should 
have to learn much, besides, about the people of Boston in order to 



igio] Relation of Biological Chemisiry to Home Economics 625 

understand and appreciate their collective dietary needs. We might 
ascertain many general facts pertaining to the city and its inhabitants, 
in times of peace as well as in periods of disorder, and yet, if we learned 
little or nothing about the people of Boston as individuals, if we ignored 
their individual characteristics and activities and needs, as well as 
the occupations, customs and other peculiarities of the various groups 
of citizens, our deductions regarding the kinds and amount of food 
needed daily in Boston would be decidedly imperfect, and our con- 
clusions on ways and means for maintaining the nutritional welfare 
of all the people in Boston would be largely guesswork. 

So it may be with certain courses in nutrition and dietetics. Our 
study and teaching of these important matters should not be confined 
to the accumulation and interpretation of general statistics, but 
should include due attention to the dynamic factors in metabolism — 
the individual cells and the tissues, under both normal and pathologi- 
cal conditions. 

Such an elementary course as the one I have outlined, if based on 
adequate preliminary training in physics, chemistry and biology, 
offers much to be desired in this connection. I am glad to add, in 
conclusion, that my experience at Columbia with courses of this kind 
has given cumulative emphasis to these opinions and convictions. 

DISCUSSION 

Miss Kinne : I should like to ask Dr. Gies where he would place 
his course in such a scheme as Dr. Stiles has presented.^ 

Dr. Gies: It seems to me that, in Dr. Stiles' arrangement of 
courses — which is a very good one — physiological chemistry should 
occupy a place beside anatomy and mechanical physiology, or should 
follow anatomy and mechanical physiology. Naturally all arrange- 
ments of courses are matters of practical adjustment, and it is a rare 
thing that any one course can be fitted ideally into a system of 
courses. I feel that the leading chemical applications to physiology 
should be emphasized in connection with studies of anatomy and 
mechanical physiology. My statement that physiological chemistry 
is chemistry applied to physiology might be put in another way — that 
physiological chemistry is chiefly chemical physiology. I think that, 
along with anatomy and physiology, chemico-physiological facts 

* J. Home Econ. 2 (1910), No. 2, p. 393. 



626 The Journal of Home Economics .December 

and principles should be given due consideration — and in a separ- 
ate laboratory course whenever that can be done. 

Miss Marlatt: I am concerned with the question as to how much 
of this biological chemistry can be given to students who have not had 
work in organic chemistry. I should like to ask Dr. Gies' opinion 
on that matter. 

Dr. Gies: Such a condition ofifers a very serious predicament. 
It certainly is true that you cannot satisfactorily teach biological 
chemistry to students who do not have adequate knowledge of ele- 
mentary organic chemistry to begin with. If you endeavor to teach 
the elements of organic chemistry and the applications of chemistry 
to biology in the same course, you find it impossible to do justice to 
the latter subject, and you confuse and disappoint the average student 
besides. I hope the deliberations of this association will bring about 
increased requirements and greater opportunities in physics, chemistry 
and biology at the beginning of the training of women in higher edu- 
cation. You need these three tools in your biological work in 
household arts and sciences; and they should be as effective in your 
hands as we try to make them for the students and practitioners 
of medicine. 



COURSES IN BACTERIOLOGY FOR HOME ECONOMICS. 

H. W. Conn. 

Professor of Biology, Wesleyan University. 

Botanically speaking, bacteria form only a small family of minute 
plants. In most botanical text books they have until recently not 
been described at all, and even to-day only a page or two is given to 
them. But though botanically they are of little importance, practi- 
cally they have been found to have a most profound influence upon 
the life and welfare of the home, and consciously or unconsciously every 
housewife has to deal with them. From morning till night she is 
constantly contending with them or using them as allies. The im- 
portance of the functions performed by these organisms has already 
forced their study into our medical schools and they are rapidly de- 
manding more and more attention from the students of agriculture. 
No less closely are they related to Home Economics, and no less 
surely is bacteriology forcing itself into courses of domestic science. 

In considering the ground that should be covered by such a course 
it is a logical necessity to include with bacteria the study of the closely 
allied yeasts and the less closely allied molds. Foi while in popular 
estimation yeasts and molds have a very different kind of reputation 
from bacteria, in reality they are so very similar, in function at least, 
that it is quite impossible to separate them. Not only are they micro- 
scopically much alike, but they are all studied by similar methods and 
are all associated with similar functions. The study of bacteria in 
Home Economics must therefore inevitably include the yeasts and 
molds. The general term microbiology would be a much better title 
to this class of studies than the more widely used term bacteriology. 

The course covering this subject in Home Economics should include 
two different phases which, however, ought to be combined into one 
consistent whole. The first should be a theoretical course with a text 
book, accompanied by lectures and illustrations. Unlike many 
branches of science bacteriology cannot well be taught by the labora- 
tory method, especially with large classes. Microscopes are too 
expensive, laboratory equipment too rarely at hand, and experimental 

627 



628 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

work is too time-consuming to make it possible to cover much ground 
in the laboratory. For general information, therefore, reliance must 
be placed upon class-room work with lectures and demonstrations. 
But the fundamental facts of the nature, distribution and multi- 
plication of microorganisms can only be appreciated by the use of 
the laboratory method, and the second part of the course should include 
some practical laboratory work. This should accompany the theo- 
retical work, though it cannot follow in parallel lines owing to the 
length of time required for making culture media and in waiting for 
cultures to grow. For simple laboratory work no great amount of 
apparatus is needed. A microscope to show the actual appearance 
of bacteria is desirable but not absolutely necessary, since most of 
the experiments will handle bacteria in masses and not individually. 
The equipment of a school kitchen, with some glassware borrowed from 
a chemical laboratory and a few Petri dishes and fermentation tubes 
will serve as apparatus sufficient for an extended series of useful 
experiments. 

THEORETICAL COURSE. 

The practical value of bacteriology to domestic science is indicated 
by the simple enumeration of the topics which it should include. 
N on- pathogenic microorganisms: 

Useful— Microorganisms are not used in the home for a very great 
variety of purposes. This subject covers, however, the function of 
yeast in fermentation, including the raising of bread and the prepa- 
ration of fermented beverages. Molds are only incidentally useful, 
though they are the cause of some of the delicious cheese flavors 
(Roquefort, Stilton, Camembert). Bacteria are of little value in the 
home, but they are at least the cause of the souring of milk and they 
are the agents which produce vinegar, sour kraut and some other 
soured foods. 

Detrimental — The undesired activities of bacteria are endless, 
but they are all associated with their agency in producing decomposi- 
tion. Like all colorless plants they are concerned in the chemical 
destruction of organic foods. Yeasts cause the breaking down of 
sugar and spoil our sugar-holding foods like jellies, sweetened con- 
densed milk, maple sugar, etc. Molds attack various substances 
which are damp but not wet and cause the decay of fruit, the musti- 
ness of cheese or flour, the mildew of cloth or leather, and sometimes 
the decay of wood. Bacteria are not fond of sugars but will attack 



igio] Bacteriology and Home Economics 629 

almost any kind of wet food. They cause putrefaction and decay. 
They sour or othenvise spoil milk and render it impossible to keep it 
long; and indeed they prevent the keeping of any kind of moist 
food. They are the cause of most of the bad odors around the pantry 
and the ice chest and they are actively at work in the garbage pail 
and in all masses of kitchen refuse. In sink drains, in closets and 
traps, and even in foods which are stored for a few hours only, they 
are busily at work. That all these phenomena, together with methods 
of preventing them, should form a part of the study of Home Eco- 
nomics is too evident to require emphasis. 

Pathogenic Organisms: 

The relation of microorganisms to disease is to-day everywhere 
recognized; their relation to contagion is less fully understood. The 
treatment of disease belongs to the physician, but the checking of 
contagion is primarily a part of Home Economics. It is to-day 
appreciated that the nurse plays a part in the handling of disease not 
second to the physician, but it is not sufficiently realized that the 
confining of diseases to the sick room and the protection of the rest 
of the family belong emphatically to the home-keeper. Clearly no 
one is fitted to be the head of a properly kept household in these 
days who does not iinderstand the relation of contagion to living 
germs, the general nature and conditions of life of bacteria, their 
method of discharge from a patient, their means of distribution from 
the sick to the well, their channels of entrance into the individual, 
and the methods of destroying them or preventing their distribution. 
The meaning of bacteriological cleanliness, the cleansing of wounds 
and methods of disinfection and sterilization should be a part of 
every housewife's educational equipment. The amount of sickness, 
suffering and death that is directly attributable to a lack of such 
information is simply incalculable, and knowledge of bacteria and 
their habits has thus become one of the integral lequirements for 
properly conducting the home. 

PRACTICAL COURSE. 

The kind and number of laboratory experiments and class demon- 
strations that accompany the theoretical work must vary with the 
conditions of the laboratory and the time available for such work. 
Even without a miscroscope much can be shown by cultures and 



630 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

handling bacteria in masses that will greatly illumine the class 
work. Suggestions for many simple experiments and class demon- 
strations may be found in books easily obtainable. They should 
include the preparation of simple culture media and easy experiments 
in making bacteria cultures. Culture plates exposed to the air of 
a room before and after occupancy by a class, or before and after 
sweeping, teach a lesson concerning the distribution of bacteria and 
molds more forcibly than any class work can do. Tests as to the 
keeping of milk at cool and warm temperatures, with and without 
sterilization or pasteurization, are easily planned and carried out, 
and materially add to and emphazise the study of milk bacteria. 
Tests upon the efficiency of drying as a method of preventing bacteria 
or mold growth and upon the value of disinfectants are easy to 
devise. The bad influence of a piece of decaying fruit when in con- 
tact with whole fruit is easily shown and the functions of yeast in 
bread-making with the relations of these phenomena to temperature 
may be readily demonstrated by fermentation tubes. A student 
who has actually seen growing upon culture plates colonies from 
bacteria which have dropped into it from the air will retain a vivid 
and lasting lesson that no text book can impart. The greater the 
number of such ocular demonstrations the more thoroughly will 
the subject become a part of the equipment of the student until she 
will learn unconsciously to adopt right methods. 

The time required to cover such a course will inevitably be in a 
measure determined by that demanded by other subjects. It should 
not cover less than a term's work and could be profitably extended 
to double this amount. There will always be a temptation to neglect 
such woik in favor of the more attractive phases of Home Economics, 
and for this very reason more emphasis should be placed upon the 
subject. 



THE IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH THROUGH 

THE TEACHING OF HYGIENE IN THE 

ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS/ 

Frances Stern. 

The scientific laboratory has been studying conditions and causes 
of disease, and new ways and means must be devised to apply this 
knowledge for the creation of right living conditions. Perhaps all 
that can be done for the adult is to give him the means of knowledge — 
point the way how to use it, and let him accept it if he will — but for 
the children, parents and citizens of the future, there is a deeper 
responsibility. The state has taken it upon herself to educate these 
children. 

It certainly seems reasonable that as much attention should be 
given to the building up of a healthy body as to the development of 
the mind. During the early years of school life the growth of the child 
should be given the foremost consideration. 

The body has withstood the ravages of civilization so wonderfully 
that not until aroused by the leaders in the campaign against tuber- 
culosis or those investigating the health of the school children have 
we realized the number who are suffering from physical ills, due 
to lack of wholesome food, fresh air, or proper clothing, and shelter. 

Attempts to teach the simple principles of hygiene have been 
difficult, owing to lack of provision for such teaching in the public 
school. The school house and school room should themselves be 
examples of cleanness and afford every means to help the child to 
live under the conditions that make for right living. As has been 
said, "a most essential part of modern education is the early forma- 
tion of such habits with regard to environment as shall conduce to 
the best living," but it seems almost useless to teach the lessons of 
hygiene and sanitation when the child has but to look about and see the 
laws \dolated, or to ask him to clean his hands if he is denied hot 

1 Read at the Boston Meeting of the Education Section of the American Home 
Economics Association, July 5, 1910. 

631 



63 2 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

water. At least the school-room dust can be cared for with a dust- 
less duster, if a vacuum cleaner is out of the question. After a scien- 
tific lesson with Petri plates, the children will be interested to keep 
the room free from dust as far as possible. 

Treating the subject of hygiene through such interest, it can readily 
be made an integral factor in the following group of topics : The care 
of the home, the furnishing of the home, food and its care and prep- 
aration, personal hygiene, and the hygiene of clothing. The essentials 
common to the above topics that make for the health and well-being 
of the child, are cleanness, pure air and sunlight, exercise and rest, 
and the beauty of environment. 

The child has little direct influence on these, for the adult chooses 
the home, limited in choice, perhaps, by a meagre income and the type 
of building found in the large cities. But in the early period of life 
the child does not apprehend his environment. His imagination, 
stimulated and fostered in play, seems to create experiences that are 
as delightful as they are real. The doll of wood is hugged as closely 
as the most expensively dressed French doll, the gold house set 
with diamonds to be won in "London Bridge" is in imagination not 
far away. Subways may be dug in sand, and temples erected with 
sticks and stones. Cannot educators striving to improve the health 
of the child make use of this play, and translate it into a direc- 
tive force for the child's good through this means? 

The scheme must be clear in the teacher's mind — she must study 
the child, and adapt the work to the child's growing need. And, 
further, she must be so familiar with the scientific facts that their 
application is, like art, concealed. In the building of a house, for 
example, the first lesson in ventilation is that there must be an outlet 
for the foul air at the top of the room. This thought can be developed 
beginning with the child in the kindergarten, in the construction of 
the house of blocks or the paper cutting; it can be shown in the 
representation of a room, pictured on paper, the fitting and furnish- 
ings cut from magazines and catalogues; it can be written about in 
the hygiene lessons, illustrated by cuttings and drawings; it can be 
considered in the plan for the wooden or card-board house. If the 
lesson is kept alive in the child's mind, and emphasized at the dif- 
ferent stages of development, and through different forms of work, 
when he has the chance to control the windows in his own home they 
will be kept open. 

The children at the Louisa Alcott Club had been constructing a 



igio] Improving Health through Teaching Hygiene 633 

paste-board house made from a hat-box. The principle of ventila- 
tion had been discussed, and the writer wished to illustrate it by 
means of the little house, b\it since it was so likely to take fire, a 
wooden box, representing a section of a room, was used. This box 
measured 12 by 12 by 6 inches and had six holes, two on each side, 
one a little below the top and one near the bottom, and two at the 
top one inch and a half in diameter, closed with corks to be taken 
out at will. 

First the children breathed into tubes containing lime water (colored 
red with phenolphthalein) and the liquid turned white. Then the 
carbon dioxid from a burning candle was collected in a tube, and 
produced a similar coloration of the solution. To show more clearly 
that this was the result of combustion, sugar was burned and the 
carbon dioxid collected and subjected to the same test. The chil- 
dren could easily see that the gases were alike in this one respect. 
The pretty red solution and the magic change to white pleased them. 

Candles were then placed on a diagonal in the box and lighted, with 
the result that the carbon dioxid rising with the heated air caused 
the upper candles to go out. Some of this air was drawn through 
the same red liquid, and thereby the children learned that the candles 
were giving off the same material as had been secured in the tubes, 
and that this affected the candles at the top of the room. The chil- 
dren tested the air currents by means of joss-sticks, to see which way 
the wind blew. The upper holes, those in the roof, were then opened. 
Immediately all the candles brightened, and the children saw that 
fresh air was entering as the warm air and carbon dioxid passed off. 

Various other experiments were tried, such as supplying air from 
above, below and with cross currents; sometimes breathing into it 
and then drawing out the air, and testing with the lime water; or 
again, drawing out the air in which the candles had been burning. 
It was unanimously decided always to have the windows open from 
the top, and to try not to sleep in a room where candles or lamps 
were burning. 

Such a lesson need not take much extra time, for it may be made 
a lesson in hygiene, drawing, and arithmetic, extending over several 
periods, and along with this, the written work will be most effec- 
tive. The lesson in English, so necessary to the children, can 
be taught through the subjects close to their lives, and since it 
tells of the great wonders of the universe, it can be made uplifting. 
Compositions about household activities can be illustrated by cuttings 



634 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

from magazines and catalogues, and even so ugly a subject as garbage 
has been made interesting. The bedroom, with its pretty furnish- 
ings, and the early morning light awakening the inmates, has made 
a very charming story. 

This winter the story about tuberculosis was written, without 
any phthisisiphobia, because it was based upon the laws of nature 
and sanitation. Through a talk about the plants and flowers, trac- 
ing cause and effect, they saw that all life comes under the same laws 
and that the laws of sanitation or hygiene could prevent as well 
as cure. The scientific presentation made it impersonal, though its 
application was concrete. 

The public school curriculum is still so crowded in the desire to 
develop the child in every direction that it cannot lay sufficient 
stress on education for health, and the majority of homes cannot, 
or do not, provide these elements of instruction which every child 
should receive. The result is that a large proportion of the children 
in the schools are physically unfit. For these children a new type 
of school is essential. The open-air school meets this need, by giving 
careful attention to every detail of nutrition and sanitation. The 
child lives in the open air and is taught to know its value, so that 
in time his system rebels at close quarters. He has simple, good, 
wholesome food, and gradually desires it above all other. He learns 
to delight in a cold sponge bath that invigorates, and in warm water 
and soap that clean the hands and body. 

The daily routine in the school begins to affect his life so that 
these lessons are carried into the home. Sometimes the conditions 
are difficult to overcome, and sometimes the family at home does 
not quite understand, and so, as extension work, a "visitor-teacher" 
should be sent to help the home fulfill the instruction given at school. 

This survey emphasizes two important points: First, that in 
education health is fundamental and that the school should train the 
child in habits of health; and, second, that to accomplish this end, 
conditions in the school room must be wholesome. The child should 
be given a comfortable chair and desk suited to his size. The school 
room should be well lighted, the air in the room fresh and free from 
germ-bearing dust. There should be time for play out of doors, and 
time and facilities for bathing. 

It is possible for the teacher to correlate the studies and to give 
instruction in practical hygiene, inculcating habits of cleanness and 
an enthusiasm for health which will give her pupils the chance in 
after life to be healthy, happy, efficient beings. 



TEACHING BACTERIOLOGY TO MOTHERS. 

H. W. Hill, M.D. 
Director, Division of Epidemiology, Minnesota State Board of Health, Minneapolis. 

The Problem. — Until such time as poverty is abolished, or the State 
takes charge of children, the majority of the women of the race must 
continue to rear the majority of the children of the race inadequately, 
in homes too small, without facilities, doing for them somehow, indi- 
vidually and alone, that which three women could hardly do well, 
working together. 

This is not a slimi problem nor a p-oblem of the rich. Numerically 
the race is chiefly middle class, neither rich nor extremely poor, 
judged by ordinary standards. This is the problem of the family 
with an income below S3000, i.e., it is the problem of the race proper, 
and it is the old problem of the pre-mosaic Hebrew — how to make 
bricks w thout straw, — alas, without knowing how to make bricks 
at all. 

The problem as a whole involves food, clothing, proper physical 
development, morals, edcuation, amusement, discipline, and citizen- 
ship. But the public hygienist has as yet but indirect concern with 
these. The public hygienist — the "board of health man'' — as yet 
concerns himself chiefly and by general expectation and consent, 
with the grosser, more imminent, more spectacular, more immediately 
tragic problems of disease and death, and chiefly with only one group 
of these, the infectious diseases. However much in ordinary life, 
over-crowding, lack of facilities and over-burdening of the mother may 
render unavailing even the tears and ageing, the back-ache, heart- 
ache, crooked fingers and wrinkled face of the mother striving for 
her young, ten times over is the effect of these seen when disease enters 
the family, adding its burdens, its sorrows, its disabilities and its 
deaths. 

Once more, remember this is not in the slums alone, nor, numerically, 
chiefly there. It is found in city and country, village and town, 
everywhere, the overburdening of mothers, in ordinary hfe, added to 
ten times over when disease springs up. 

635 



636 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

How Big A Problem is It? — Call the population of the United States 
80,000,000. Remember that sooner or later, every member of each 
generation suffers from at least one infectious disease, often from two, 
three or four, and it is clear that every generation suffers anywhere 
from 80,000,000 to 240,000,000 attacks of infections. Each gener- 
ation pays out at least eight billions of dollars for this running 
of the gauntlet, not to speak of the disability and death of those who 
run it unsuccessfully. Tuberculosis, diphtheria, summer diarrhea, 
scarlet fever, measles, typhoid fever, whooping cough, chickenpox, 
to name only some of those best known to the laity, how much sorrow, 
distress, poverty, how much "making of none avail" of mothers' 
hopes and prayers and wearing efifort have these caused! Yet so 
common are they that "childrens' diseases" are looked upon as a 
necessary stage, almost a joke. Indeed some people deliberately 
expose their children to them, "to have it over with!" Yet who 
bears the burden, the sleepless nights, the extra work, the nervous 
strain, the hope deferred? 

Ninety-five per cent of the infectious diseases are nursed at home by 
mothers. Next to the children themselves the one who suffers most 
is the mother. 

Who Keeps the Infectious Disease Going? — Once more the answer is 
— and most emphatically — the mother, woman in general, but chiefly 
after all the mother. To be sure there is every excuse for the mother, 
— overwork, overcrowding, lack of facilities, above all ignorance and 
misdirected training, "mis-information piled on lack of any," but 
with all the perfectly good apologies stated and all the excellent good- 
will and effort counted in, the fact itself remains, that mothers pro- 
pagate and keep alive and spread the infectious diseases of children 
more than any other one body of people, and that until they learn 
the rules of the game and follow them, no amount of coaching o: 
effort from the sidelines will help. 

Why and How are Women Responsible? — Because mothers are 
doing the work — women in general, but chiefly mothers. The farmer 
is responsible (apart from flood, drought, storm or other "acts of God") 
for whatever happens to the crop from seed to market. Women in 
general — but chiefly mothers — are the "raisers" and "crop-hand- 
lers" of the largest, most valuable, most expensive and most difficult 
crop in the country. What happens to this crop between birth and 
sixteen years of age is, chiefly, what women do to it, or at least do 
not prevent. For the first 5000 days of the years of the life of 



19 lo] Teaching Bacteriology to Mothers 637 

each generation, the race is fed, dressed, undressed, washed, combed, 
cuddled, kissed, praised, blamed, led, driven, coaxed, taught, spanked, 
bossed and otherwise "brought up" by women — women mothers at 
home, women teachers at school. It is during this time of tutelage 
and supervision by women that children receive their infections; it 
is during this time that the race runs its gauntlet, dances its little 
dance with death — and pays eight b llions for it. 

What is the Specific Fault of Mothers? — Let it be understood that 
the specific fault is of the head, not the heart It is due to bad teach- 
ing and misdirected energy. It is almost impossible to avoid it 
under existing circumstances, and it is extremely disgusting to talk 
about. However, as to the last point it may be said as Dr. Mac- 
Cormick has it — it is much more disgusting to do. 

The specific thing at fault in the spread of infectious diseases is the 
exchange of discharges. We know now that practically speaking all 
the infectious diseases are infectious because they are caused by 
bacteria or similarly minute forms of living things. It is the transfer 
of these germs from sick to well persons which spreads the disease, 
The sick child, whether it has tuberculosis, typhoid, diphtheria, scar- 
let fever, mumps, measles, or whooping cough, has its discharges full 
of germs of the disease concerned. In typhoid fever, the germs are 
chiefly in the discharges from the bowels and bladder, in the other 
diseases chiefly in the discharges from the mouth or nose. But how- 
ever these germs leave the sick person, they, practically speaking, 
never produce another case of the disease unless a well person gets 
these discharges into his or her mouth Disgusting? Yes, — but 
true. If a child never takes the discharges of a sick person into his 
mouth he will never contract an infectious disease. 

As a matter of fact the exchange of normal discharges goes on 
all of the time. Think of it. The mother kisses her baby, or tries 
the nipple of the nursing bottle to see if it draws well, or if the 
milk is warm enough, by first sucking the nipple herself, and of 
course her mouth discharges go into the baby's mouth. She feeds the 
baby with a spoon, and tries the temperature of the spoon and its 
contents in her own mouth first or she laughs and talks into the 
baby's face, cuddhng and playing with it The fine spray from her 
mouth, thrown out in the explosive outrush of air during speech as 
it is not during quiet breathing, flies over the baby's face, into its 
mouth, eyes, nose, and the baby's into hers. But so long as the dis- 
charges of each are normal no great harm results. But, if either 



638 The Journal of Home Economics 'December 

mother or child have tuberculosis or diphtheria, etc., both are pretty 
sure to become infected. 

So, more remotely, there are possibilities of infection from the 
mother as she talks or sings as she lays the table or prepares the 
food, thus spraying her mouth contents into and upon everything in 
front of her — and her children put these things into their mouths. 
Still this is, although the most inevitable, the least of the ways of 
transmission of infections. 

The chief spread of infections is on the hands — tuberculosis, diph- 
theria, scarlet fever, the whole list. It is human nature to put the 
fingers into the mouth. It is mother nature to put her finger- into 
her children's mouths, directly or ind'rectly through spoons, cups 
or food itself. 

But the discharges of the mouth and nose are not alone those trans- 
mitted. Through hurried or ineflScient washing of hands the mother 
even transfers bladder and bowel dischaiges from herself to her 
children's mouths, directly on her hands, and indirectly through food 
and eating utensils touched by her hands. She transfers the chil- 
dren's discharges from one child to the other also. The children do 
the same. They convey their own discharges on their hands, and 
indirectly by touching things such as food, gum, pencils, and whistles, 
that go into other children's mouths. 

It is the serious belief and teaching of the best professional public 
hygienists that in these two ways — mouth-spray for mouth dis- 
charges, and hands for mouth, bladder and bowel discharges — 
the ordinary infectious diseases are chiefly transmitted. With rigid 
attention to these points trained nurses in certain Parisian hospitals 
successfully nurse in open wards diphtheria, scarlet fever, and measles 
together without any patient contracting another's disease. Very 
much more might be said to emphasize, illustrate and demonstrate 
the truth of these statements, but perhaps the fact that this is the 
basic principle of modern epidemiology will be sufiicient proof. 

Teaching Bacteriology to Mothers a Partial Solution. — From what 
has been said it must be clear that the ordinary interchange within 
the family of the discharges of the members of the family, and at 
school of the attendants at the school, is constant and inevitable 
while things remain as they are. Where is it possible to break into 
the conditions and so change them that this exchange shall cease? 

We take desperate measures to prevent this exchange of discharges 
in the face of epidemics — isolation of the patient, quarantine of the 



19 lo] Teaching Bacteriology to Mothers 639 

family, removal of the patient bodily to a hospital. These measures, 
especially the latter, keep the stream of discharges from the sick 
child away from the mouths of those outside the family, but only 
removal to a hospital will as a rule be effective in preventing con- 
tinued or even more concentrated exchange within the family — for 
isolation within the family in the ordinary overcrowded house, with 
the ordinary overworked mother, knowing nothing of these things prac- 
tically, rarely succeeds. The real difficulty lies deeper still in present 
conditions It may be possible to prevent the discharges of the sick 
child, recognized as having a contagious disease, from entering other 
people's mouths. But the existence of the constant exchange of dis- 
charges in the family and at the school makes it almost inevitable 
that in the early stages of the disease and in many cases of disease too 
light to catch the attention of the mothers, the harm is done before, 
if ever, the case is recognized. Undoubtedly the early, unrecognized 
and alas! the concealed cases (concealed by the mother, it may be, 
to avoid quarantine or isolation), maintain the infectious diseases much 
more than the plainly recognized case. Hence, the only perfect 
safeguard is to do away with the exchange of normal discharges in 
health, as a matter of habit and principle, in order that when disease 
comes the pathways for its spread may not be beaten smooth, ready 
and waiting to carry it broadcast before its presence is recognized. 

Women unfortunately are innately clean as regards visible dirt — 
probably as part of the feminine desire for adornment. But it is not 
visible dirt that hurts, it is invisible dirt. The clean shining morning 
face is not half so important as clean — really clean — hands, hands 
free of discharges. If the floor be free of discharges, those horrors of 
the housewife, dust and mud, do no real harm, or so little as to be 
practically negligible. The white collar and cuffs, the brushed hair, 
the fresh table linen and the polished spoons and forks mean nothing 
from a anitary standpoint, and if meanwhile the cook is putting dis- 
charges into the food, these refinements are worse than mere delu- 
sions, they are snares. 

To teach women — girls — prospective mother. — that they may 
practice in their households and teach in turn their children to war 
on invisible dirt is one of the functions of bacteriology. Bacteriology 
alone will point the way to real cleanliness. Only the starting 
demonstrations of its unescapable conclusions, ground into the people 
can secure results. Only in the public schools can it be taught with 
emphasis, weight and uniformity enough to impress the masses. Only 



640 The Journal of Home Economics ^December 

in the grades can it be counted upon to reach the masses. But i 
per cent, of the population ever reach the university , but 25 per cent, 
reach the high schools. The great mass of the mothers of the coming 
generation — of the American race — and the mothers of more than 
their average of children are receiving grade school education only. 
Need more be said? 

Summary. — The infectious diseases in general radiate from and are 
kept going by women. Women must learn to break up, divert, 
stop in some manner — in every manner — the exchange of normal 
discharges amongst children at school and amidst families at home if 
infectious diseases are to be abolished or abated. The needful in- 
formation, beliefs, technique and habits cannot be had or established 
except by studying the basic principles of bacteriology. Bacteriology 
must be taught in the grades of the public schools if it is to reach 
those who most need it. 

Radical changes in Social Conditions the Real Solution. If (as cannot 
be) every girl now at grade school could be thoroughly taught all that 
a trained nurse knows — theory and practice — the best to be hoped 
is that, becoming a mother, ten to twenty years hence, she may remem- 
ber enough to care for, if she have the facilities, the first case of infec- 
tion in her household without permitting its spread to the other mem- 
bers or to outsiders. Alas, not one third of the girls would remember, 
not one-tenth will have the facilities. Above all what shall be done 
in that intervening ten to twenty years? Lectures, writings, ser- 
mons, appeals to mothers' clubs, university extensions, moving pictures 
— all the pubHcity that can be had or hoped for — will not teach 
technique to the mother now in possession of the present generation 
— although they all help — nor once more, if it taught them, would 
it provide the facilities needed. Economic conditions must change 
and change specifically to aid the mother if we are to gain at all 
Also, the prevention of disease must engage the serious attention of 
governments — the prevention of disease, not the talking about it or 
the looking wise over it, or the making of fine addresses on it, but 
preventing it. The prevention must include a tremendous organization 
to prevent human discharges entering water supplies, milk supplies, 
food supplies; must involve watchfulness of hotels, restaurants, public 
institutions of all sorts — in short, of all public alimentary utilities, 
with all their off-shoots and side issues wherever found. And the 
whole must be cooperative. The government must strike at the 
sources, the woman at the means of spread, and the man must sup- 
port both, for the sake of the women and children. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE IN HAWAII. 
Agnes Hunt, 

The various educational institutions in the Hawaiian Islands have 
a peculiar situation to meet owing to the diversity of nationalities 
and consequent diversity of languages. Among these nationalities, 
the Orientals, including Japanese, Chinese and Korean, take prece- 
dence as to numbers; the Hawaiians, Portuguese and Porto Ricans 
next, and the Enghsh, Americans, and Germans following. Just 
recently a large number of Russians and Filipinos have been brought 
to work on the various plantations. Owing to this conglomerate 
group of peoples, "pidgin Enghsh," the vernacular common and pecu- 
liar to the east, has come into use, influencing to a very great extent 
the purity of the English language. 

The Chinese and Japanese maintain schools in which their own 
languages are taught and their traditions preserved. Many of these 
children attend the public schools regularly from nine in the morning 
until two in the afternoon five days a week, while they attend their 
own schools early in the morning from seven until nearly nine, then 
in the afternoon for two or three hours, Saturdays and Sundays only 
adding more time for the studyof their native languages and learning. 

The different educational institutions here may be conveniently 
divided according as they derive the funds for their support as follows : 

(7) Those supported by the territory and the federal government. — 
Under this group come the public schools, the normal school, and 
the College of Hawaii. The public schools are quite thorough and 
complete in their work. The teachers and supervisors are well trained 
men and women, the majority having received their education on the 
mainland. The high school work is of such grade that its graduates 
are received in most of the universities of the United States without 
any further preparation. It is to be noted, however, that the average 
age of pupils in the grades and high schools is relatively higher than 
in corresponding grades in the States. The normal school has an effi- 
cient force of teachers, many of them of college training, who gradu- 
ate from the various departments teachers filling good positions on 

641 



642 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

the islands. Manual training and domestic science come in for their 
share of attention. The College of Hawaii is a new institution, of 
university rank, having its origin under the Morrill acts of 1862 and 
1890, thereby corresponding to the land-grant or agricultural and 
mechanic arts colleges of the various states and territories. The 
first year of instruction commenced in 1908 with four courses, on com- 
pletion of which degrees are granted in agriculture, engineering, science 
and Household Economics. Only those who have been graduated 
from a high school of acknowledged standing or its equivalent are 
admitted as regular students. 

(2) Privately endowed institutions. — Among these are the Kame- 
hameha schools, the Punahou School, better known as Oahu College, 
the free kindergartens, Kohala Seminary for girls, and the Hilo Boys' 
Boarding School, all on Hawaii, and the Maunaolu Girls' Seminary 
on Maui. The Kamehameha schools comprise two separate schools, 
one for boys and one for girls. Only pupils of Hawaiian parentage 
are eligible for entrance. Through the large endowment from the 
Bishop estate, the equipment is first class, the dormitories and campus 
spacious and well-kept and the faculty of a high grade. The insti- 
tution especially emphasizes manual training and domestic science. 

The Punahou School is an outgrowth of instruction given in the 
earlier days for the children of missionary families. The work given 
includes the grade work in the preparatory department and the high 
school work in Oahu College, fitting the graduate to enter the College 
of Hawaii or other collegiate institutions without examination. The 
instruction is unusually good, and the buildings and campus are impos- 
ing, while the athletic field adds no Uttle to the attractiveness of the 
institution. 

The free kindergartens are doing an effective service, nearly a thous- 
and children taking advantage of them to gain some knowledge 01 
English before entering the receiving and primary grades. Kohala 
Seminary, Maunaolu Seminary, and the Hilo Boys' Boarding School 
give instruction of lower standard than the high school work, but no 
less effective. 

(j) Institutions hi part or entirely supported by religious organiza- 
tions. — These include the Mid-Pacific Institute (partly endowed), 
lolani College, Aliiolani College, St. Louis College and several mission 
schools in various parts of the islands. The Mid-Pacific Institute 
comprises the Mills Institute for boys and the Kawaiahao Seminary 
for girls. Its scope is similar to the Kamehameha schools, except 



19 1 o] Domestic Science in Hawaii 643 

that it is not restricted by creed or nationality. The term college as 
quite commonly applied in the islands is somewhat misleading, as can 
be seen in the cases just mentioned where the instruction hardly 
extends beyond the seventh or eighth grades. 

The Palama Settlement, the St. Elizabeth's Mission in Honolulu, 
and the various missions over the islands indicate to a very limited 
extent the phenomenal philanthropic spirit manifested by generous 
people. 

Thus it can be seen there is not a dearth of education facilities, but 
rather a scattering of forces that have evolved to the present status 
through changes in the government, the missionary activities, and 
interests aroused through philanthropic stimulus. 

The idea of domestic science in the Hawaiian Islands is not new. 
Some of the institutions have applied domestic science as a system 
whereby the running expenses of the institution are reduced to a 
minimum. That is, the work is apportioned out to the girls, and under 
the supervision of trained assistants all the work from the laundry 
to preparing the meals and caring for the household is done by them. 
This system is carried out in the Kamehameha Girls' School, the Kawa- 
iahao Seminary, the Kohala Seminary, and the Girls' Industrial 
School (reform school). Each girl thus learns how to perform all the 
duties of a household and to do them systematically. The advantage 
of this is plainly evident when one considers that only a few genera- 
tions have passed since the homes of the native Hawaiians were grass 
huts, their china, wooden bowls, their food, fish from a nearby pond 
and "pot" from an adjacent taro patch. 

It is very difficult to teach much more than the actual methods in 
these institutions, with a little of the "whys and wherefores." With 
sewing, the girls are much more apt than in the other work and seem 
to have a natural gift for it. Whether the love of personal adornment 
appeals more to them and they can see the immediate improvement 
more readily than in the other branches, I cannot say. They are very 
soon able to make for themselves simple gowns neatly and prettily. 
The courses in the schools just mentioned are systematic, starting in 
with the lower grades and working through until the drafting, cutting 
and .fitting are very deftly done. Mrs. Agnes Burt of the Kawaiahao 
Seminary has just published two clever manuals in which the work 
done during the terms may be preserved intact for each girl. The 
first manual has printed instructions for the various stitches with 
methods, and opposite each a blank leaf for the sampler to be inserted . 



644 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [December 

The second manual has a similar arrangement for advanced combina- 
tions of stitches and drafting. A view of the main sewing room of 
this seminary is shown in the frontispiece of this number. 

The department of domestic science of the normal school, under 
the supervision of Miss Lee, formerly of Teachers College, gives 
instruction in both cooking and sewing. Quite a novel scheme has been 
developed in order to maintain domestic science work in this school. 
The funds available have from the first been very limited and the work 
has been so arranged that the foods from the kitchen are sold for a 
very nominal fee to the pupils and teachers as a luncheon. This usu- 
ally consists of a soup and a dessert, sandwiches and a dessert, or a 
soup and a salad. Quite a variety of dishes may be learned, but the 
pupil has little or no time to find out anything aside from the mere 
duties that are assigned to her. 

The department of Household Economics in the College of Hawaii 
is fairly well equipped, considering the cramped quarters it at present 
occupies. The kitchen will accommodate eight students and is fitted 
with gas and electricity. Each girl has her own utensils in a conve- 
niently arranged drawer and an individual gas burner over her desk. 
A practice dining room serves at present the double purpose of sewing 
room and lecture room. The various courses offered are personal 
hygiene and sanitation, textiles, selection and preparation of foods, 
house construction, sanitation and decoration. As the department 
develops it is hoped to extend the courses to include household man- 
agement, chemistry of food, dietetics and other branches as needed. 
Besides the above, the student in the department is required to take 
work in English, German or French, art and design, chemistry, bot- 
any, history, physiology, zoology, economics and such others as she 
may elect. The enrollment at present is small and consists of special 
students, but interest in the work is manifested and there are reasons 
to hope that very shortly the department will have more than it can 
accommodate in the present temporary quarters. A correspondence 
course in the nature of extension work has been started, giving an op- 
portunity to those on the other islands who cannot attend the college 
to have some aid in their difficulties. At present the work is confined 
to lessons on the selection and preparation of food. 

The public schools have as yet no definite scheme in domestic 
science, sewing being taught in those schools where the teacher wishes. 
The pillow lace is being taught to some extent in the grades, but more 
attention is paid to it in the Girls' Industrial School. Several planta- 



'9'°' Domestic Science in Hawaii g. , 

tion schools have introduced sewing, lace-making and mat-weaving 
some speamens of which were exhibited by them at the SeatufeZ 

Home 'for GMf^T°H ^T 't '"'"""« ' ^"''' "^^<' '= "^^ ^aiulani 
M,ss Hosnier, some fifty working girls and school giris from the othe 
islands find a comfortable home for a very small sum. Most of the 
work , done by thegirls, although some few prefer to pay ala ger su- 
:htt r:fjr '*'^™^''- ^"'^'''-''-''-^'-^nedfo^rthose 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE IN THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF 

HAWAII. 

Florence Margaret Lee. 

The Normal School of Hawaii is composed of Chinese, Japanese, 
Portuguese, Hawaiian, part Hawaiians, Danes, Germans and Ameri- 
cans. They ail speak English fluently and work together in perfect 
harmony. Honolulu is truly a small "melting pot " of nations. 

The diplomas given at the end of a four years' course are of equal 
rank with those of the California State Normal School and admit a 
student to the College of Hawaii without examination. 

The aim of the school is to train girls and boys to be instructors 
in any department of the school. With this end in view they spend a 
third of every day during their sophomore, junior and senior years 
as assistants in different classes, rotating each week. By this means 
the graduates have taught each year for six weeks in every grade, 
for this is also a training school. Daily plans are outlined by the teach- 
ers, and the student assistant elaborates these, thereby learning to 
express herself. 

Domestic science was first started in this school on a very limited 
scale. In 1900 the principal, Mr. Edgar Wood, realizing the great 
need for it, decided to introduce it into the curriculum. As a special 
teacher could not be obtained until the department was proved to 
be a success, the manual training teacher took charge. The grade 
teachers brought their classes down to the little shed which served as 
a laboratory, and there the children prepared and ate their simple 
lunch. 

It was about this time that a large fire occurcd in the "China- 
town" of Honolulu and from "fire sales" the little shed was equipped 
as a modest home kitchen. In 1905 this had proved so successful 
that the department of education erected a small building for domes- 
tic science and manual training, equipped a laboratory for each of 
these, and sent to the mainland for trained teachers. 

It was then decided that a lunch should be cooked by the pupils 
and sold to the teachers and children at a nominal sum. The depart- 
646 



19 1 o] Domestic Science in Hawaii 647 

ment of education furnished all staple groceries and the lunch other- 
wise paid expenses and grew more and more popular until to-day it is 
being served to one hundred and fifty people daily. 

The aim of this lunch was not to furnish food to underfed children, 
for extreme poverty did not exist there, but to obtain hand skill in 
cookery, to create a condition similar to that of daily life, and also to 
teach how and what to do by doing, the reasons to be given as the work 
was done. 

The plan of work is that two girls from the fifth, sixth, seventh and 
eighth grades of the training school go every morning, according to a 
rotating system, to prepare the lunch dishes which need long cooking 
and to make bread. After the first kneading they go back to their 
classes but return for the second kneading, baking and sponge mak- 
ing. In this way each one actually does all the work, from the making 
of the yeast to the baking of the loaf. 

Next follows the freshman class, so divided that each will have two 
days per week in the laboratory. In this class, as in all others, there 
is group work in the preparation of the lunch, the group changing each 
day to a different table and preparing a different dish. Chowders, 
soups, meats, vegetables, puddings, pastries, ice cream, etc., are 
served. For five cents a bowl of chowder or soup, a salad, or perhaps 
meat loaf with mashed potato, and two slices of buttered bread are 
sold. The majority make their lunch of this, but for an additional 
five cents there is ice cream and cake or some dessert. Five cents is 
the uniform price of all articles. 

The cost of food is far greater in Honolulu than it is in New York 
City, yet this lunch is made to pay all expenses, the superintendent of 
education no longer considering it necessary to furnish supplies. 

A difficult problem in planning this lunch is the consideration of 
the widely different tastes of the American teachers and the children 
of these various nationalities, for exactly the same lunch is served to 
all. 

The seventh and eighth grades wash the dishes used during lunch, 
and thoroughly clean the laboratory. One-half hour is given to this. 

An illustration of the kitchen is shown facing page 646. 

Sewing is taught in the grades by the grade teachers, and dress- 
making is taught in the normal department by the domestic science 
teacher. Like domestic science at the beginning it has a struggle for 
existence, there being no room and no equipment. It is hoped, how- 
ever, that both may be secured in the near future. 



REPORT OF THE PENNY LUNCH EXPERIMENT IN 
BOSTON, JANUARY 1 TO JUNE 30. 1910. 

Ellen H. Richards. 

At the Boston meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion the problem of feeding the school child was one of the subjects 
on the program. The account of the successful work with penny 
lunches accomplished in other cities stirred into action a long cherished 
plan of Miss Isabel F. Hyams, trustee of the Boston Consumptive 
Hospital, to furnish a penny lunch to the children in the Boston 
schools. With the hearty cooperation of the principal, Miss Emily 
Carpenter, and the teacher of domestic science. Miss Emmeline- 
Torrey, the first penny lunches were served in the middle of the morn 
ing, at the Winthrop grammar school. The school kitchen was already 
fully equipped, so that the only expense necessary was for extra mugs, 
bowls, and trays, and $3.00 a week for a helper who assisted in preparing 
the sandwiches. This was supplied by Miss Hyams. On three days of 
the week, the regular cooking lessons were turned into the preparation 
of a hot luncheon; on the other two days, sandwiches and milk were 
offered. About 80 children were served on their school desks, a square 
of enameled cloth being used for protection. The children marched 
by the table and took the prepared dishes to their desks. Later the 
popularity became so great as to outgrow the original equipment 
and the committee added mugs and covers for 70 more children. 

Meanwhile the Boston school committee had asked the Home and 
School Association to consider what could be done for the five or six- 
thousand anemic children reported as attending school in the various 
districts, the greater number being found in the Franklin, layman, 
Quincy, Wells and Hyde districts. The association passed the inves- 
tigation over to its committee on hygiene, consisting of Ellen H. Rich- 
ards, Chairman, Isabel F. Hyams, Lillian V. Robinson, and Dr. E. O. 
Otis. 

Investigation revealed that in the most needy districts the school- 
houses were utterly lacking in facilities. There was no provision for 
hot water, sinks, stoves or space for the preparation of cooking 
648 



igio] The Penny Lunch Experiment in Boston 649 

or dishes to serve the food in. Funds for providing equipment for 
this limited experiment were furnished by Mrs. William V. Kellen, 
who generously financed the first luncheon experiments in the Bos- 
ton high schools sixteen years ago and whose interest in the subject 
has never waned. 

The centres established since the Winthrop are the Winchell, 
Franklin, Quincy and Norcross districts. In the Hyde school a helper 
was provided. 

The Wells district with its nine divisions and most inadequate 
facilities was helped at the Winchell district by the cooperation of the 
Elizabeth Peabody House, where Miss Smith prepared the food in 
the kitchen of the house and sent it to the schools. Forty -five dollars 
was given to purchase the equipment and first supplies. To the Hyde 
school was given $30 to secure oversight and cleanliness in the serving 
of the two-cent lunch of malted milk and crackers. 

At the Franklin school, where the experiment was begun in April, 
a corner of the janitor's room was curtained off for a kitchen, in which 
to prepare the food; the stove (gas) was in the furnace room. Here 
the children come to the basement for their lunches, as in many of the 
high schools; the food is placed on the tables ready for them, they 
deposit their money, take the food and pass along. The dishes are 
returned and washed by the helper and two of the school girls. The 
luncheon costs two cents in this school, as there is no school kitchen 
and a helper must be secured to superintend the preparation and serv- 
ing of the food. This centre was equipped by the committee at a cost 
of $55.74 and since April has served 150 children a day. 

The Rice school has a public school kitchen so that only the equip- 
ment for service mugs, bowls and spoons, was needed, these costing 
$23.70. The Norcross school only needed to be supplied with equip- 
ment for service, this costing $5.40. The Quincy school equipment cost 
$47.69, and that in the Warrenton St. school cost $5.40. 

For use in all the schools, a piece of crash costing $6.25 was purchased. 
For service as needed at $3.00 per week $51 was expended. During 
April and May about 2000 pupils were served, and the total expense 
has been about $300. 

Once the equipment has been provided the lunches have paid for 
themselves. This has been made possible only with the strictest 
management and by the purchase at wholesale of inexpensive food 
stuffs. About 2000 children are buying luncheons at the 10:30 recess 
for one or two cents, according to whether the lessons of the cooking 



650 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

classes can or cannot be utilized. The teachers are unanimous in the 
belief that the luncheons are helping the children both physically and 
mentally. They are more attentive and interested in the lessons during 
the last hour of the morning and the result in their recitations gives the 
proof. To the earnest cooperation and interest of principals and 
teachers much of the success of the work is due. 

The following dishes have been served: Pea soup with crackers; 
potato chowder; corn meal mush, with milk, sugar, and crackers; 
oatmeal and dates, with milk, sugar, and crackers; rice and prunes, 
with milk, sugar, and crackers; sandwiches (peanut butter, or jam), 
with a glass of milk ; apple-sago pudding ; rice pudding ; Indian pudding ; 
apple sauce and crackers ; ginger cookies, with a glass of milk. The por- 
tion fills a large mug or deep oat-meal dish. The food selected has 
been chosen with care in regard to cheapness and to a high per- 
centage of nutritive value. A distinct advantage was the possibil- 
ity of buying all food at wholesale prices. The raw material costs one 
cent (if labor were counted, it would be one cent more) and yields 
an average of about 300 calories. The milk used is skimmed milk, 
costing at wholesale about three cents a quart, a valuable food for 
its cost, differing from whole milk only in the fat. This is made up 
by butterine, a cheaper product than butter, which has, however, as 
great a food value and is as easily assimilated in most cases. 

The chairman of the committee took the responsibility for the use 
of these foods. There is probably less danger in this combination than 
in whole milk as commonly found to-day. The increase of lactic acid 
organisms in the skimmed milk tends, as Metchnikoff has shown, to 
crowd out others present , and the conditions of manufacturing butterine 
or oleomargarine renders it exceedingly improbable that disease germs 
can have access to the product. Sugar is one of the least expensive 
as well as the cleanest of foods and is used freely in our lunches. The 
best authorities apparently agree that under four ounces a day, the 
child may be allowed it freely. Flour in the form of crackers is also 
inexpensive and nutritious. Ferguson's bread proved to be well baked 
and well liked. There is little danger in loaf bread which is crusty and 
baked through. It is much to be desired that less expensive forms of 
tasty bread and muffins be provided. A larger patronage and wider 
experience will doubtless permit of greater variety, if found desirable. 

The committee would like to put themselves on record as convinced 
of the value of the morning luncheon in the elementary school, and of 
the practicability of its adoption wherever those connected with the 



igio] The Penny Lunch Experiment in Boston 651 

school are prepared to take a little trouble and the authorities will 
put in the proper facihties — hot water, stoves, and the equipment 
for service. 

There must also be a careful and conscientious supervision by 
some one with knowledge and authority. Much of the success in 
Boston, so far, has been due to the indefatigable zeal and thorough 
knowledge of Miss Hyams, who has given daily oversight to the work 
and has pulled the laboring oar of the committee's work. 

The fact that the product of their lesson is of use to some one has 
proved an incentive to the classes in cooking and a spur to quick 
work, and it is in the interest of economical administration that a 
combination of the school lunch and the work of the school kitchen 
should some day be worked out. 

The parents have, we think, appreciated what we have tried to do for 
the children. One woman, who earned her living by scrubbing office 
floors, asked her employer if he would pay her partially in pennies, and 
when as he told me, surprised at the request, he asked why, she answered, 
that her grandchildren went to the Winthrop School and they thought 
so much of their penny lunch, she wanted the pennies for them. Per- 
haps the best test of our work has been that other schools have demanded 
also the privilege of lunches. Some are working along the same lines 
we have followed. We feel encouraged to continue this work and I 
am sure Miss Hyams must for it is to her generosity of time, personal 
work and money, that each school as it made its plea of "Will you help 
us?" owes the details and arrangements. The equipment of bowls, 
mugs, spoons, cooking utensils and other necessary articles were fur- 
nished by the contribution of Mrs. Wm. V. Kellen. Several places 
however charge two cents for their lunches as they are either boys' 
schools or girls' schools with no school kitchen in the building. 

The work is, then, done by one woman who gives her entire m.orning 
to the work, and the extra penny pays her salary. Our school was pro- 
vided with an assistant whose salar>' was provided for by ]Mis5 Hyams. 

If any of you can find a generous friend, sympathetic helpful princi- 
pal, cooperative fellow teachers, and willing capable girls like ours I 
would suggest that you also start penny lunches and see how much 
pleasure they will give you in spite of the additional work, but you can 
not omit one of these elements and spell Success. 

This lesson in inexpensive nutrition is of distinct value to the child 
and to the community. For the parents it is also an important lesson 
that not only food but the right food is necessary. To those who give 



652 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

little children a penny to spend without any suggestion as to what to 
buy with it or where to buy it, this extreme care given to a luncheon 
must be a revelation and, in time, must tell for good. Careless parents 
do not notice when the child does not eat a nourishing breakfast, and 
even if a luncheon is taken it is frequently not appetizing and in 
many cases it is cold. The chairman of the committee believes that 
in the winter, at least, a cup of hot food acts as a mild stimulant to 
the digestive juices, so that the real value of the luncheon is doubled. 

One of the worst habits of children of this early age is the patroniz- 
ing of the candy and pastry shops. Sugar is valuabe if it is pure, 
since it goes so quickly into the circulation without taxing the body 
fluids, and there is a reason for the child's liking for candy, but it 
should be of the best quality. This recess lunch does not interfere with 
a parent's responsibility, because it comes at a time when they cannot 
provide more than the money, which they nearly all do, but it insures 
real nutrition for the penny. From it the parents may learn the value 
of foods and the children will learn to choose such things as are good for 
them to eat in the midst of school hours. 

The committee deprecates the giving of supplies to a school. It 
believes the children should pay for what they get and that the price 
should be in proportion to the cost for this very reason — the teaching of 
values. If anything is to be given, it should be the equipment, which 
is the public property of the school and lasts for some years. 

To-day education cannot take cognizance simply of intellectual 
matters, but must recognize the attainment of the child's efficiency 
through the physical side as well. The hundreds of children who have 
had six weeks' feeding in these schools show the results in increased 
weight, better color, and more receptive and active minds. 

The time of eating and quality of food does not interfere with the 
noon meal nor has it lessened the furnishing of breakfast, in any 
observed cases, by parents. It seems to be a feasible remedial-pre- 
ventive measure, involving no serious odors or garbage about the 
school house. 

One criticism is sure to be made on the handling of these luncheons 
in school buildings by the regular teachers not dressed in cooking- 
school costume. That the standards of superficial nicety are not 
kept up might be said, but it would raise the cost, since it is the polish 
and specklessness that doubles or even trebles the price of prepared 
foods. 

The service, though simple, is educational, as everything is done in 



igio] The Penny Lunch Experiment in Boston 653 

good taste and in a cleanly way. It is carried out with little friction- 
In the Winthrop school, word is sent the day before to the kitchen 
as to how many lunches each room desires. At the close of the after- 
noon, trays are placed about the room, each in its assigned place, so 
that there shall be no confusion and all will be in readiness for the next 
morning. When ready the trays are carried to the various rooms, and 
the food served at the desks, each child having a doily of enamel cloth. 
When bread or a cracker is served with milk a disc of metal instead of 
a plate is placed on top of the mug to hold the bread . . When the 
children have finished, the mugs are collected, returned to the kitchen 
and washed by the children. 

WHAT SHALL BE DONE ABOUT IT NEXT YEAR? 

An extension of this work might be taken up for the "shut-outs." 
It has been reported that several hundred children in the city are 
locked out of their homes at noon and left to roam the streets. It was 
hoped in the Hyde School that a noon class might be formed to prepare 
their own noon meal and, prehaps, prepare a part at least of the penny 
lunch, but various obstacles prevented the trial. It is hoped that some 
such plan will be inaugurated somewhere next year. Further work of 
hygienic value should be undertaken in cooperation with this work to 
provide hot water and towels, or, in other words, possibilities for clean 
hands in the school. Clean food eaten from dirty hands is of little 
avail. 

This is but a part of the whole social problem — and the "break- 
fastless" child is the result of bad hygienic conditions of the modern 
tenement house rather than of poverty or the unsolicitous mother — 
for there are not many of the latter. 

The committee feels certain of the splendid results obtained, and 
believes the work should be extended, emphasizing, as an important 
factor towards its success, first, constant supervision by one who has 
a knowledge of food values and prices and the place of food in the mod- 
ern educational scheme, and, second, the necessity of funds to draw 
upon for equipment in starting the work promptly and efficiently. 

''.liss Lillian M. Towne has been recently added to the committee 
and much is hoped from her intimate knowledge of the school needs 
and conditions. 



ACETYLENE GAS AS FUEL FOR A DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

KITCHEN/ 

Miss Joan Hamilton, 

Supervisor of Domestic Science, Regina, Saskatchewan. 

The public school board brought me here last summer to intro- 
duce domestic science to the schools of the city. The first thing was 
to equip a class-kitchen. My board was willing to provide every- 
thing necessary for a good equipment, but my nearest neighbor in 
domestic science was across the prairies in the next province, and the 
dealers required a good deal of education In the "fitness of things." 
Most of our difficulties have now been overcome and we have made 
a satisfactory beginning with the two branches of sewing and food 
preparation. 

Our greatest problem was to provide satisfactory individual stoves 
for twenty-four girls around the ordinary hollow square table, and 
the following notes on our experience may prove helpful to other 
pioneer teachers in similar circumstances. 

Choice of fuel. — Coal gas was impossible. Many were the kerosene 
stoves offered, but most of them were too high and too unstable. One 
looked promising, but proved difficult to control and the possibiUty 
of twenty-four of them pouring black, greasy smoke into the room was 
too much for the board. Satisfactory alcohol stoves could be had 
but denatured alcohol is $1.50 a gallon, and the board finally decided 
upon acetylene gas. 

Plumbing, etc. — This was the same as for ordinary coal gas, but with 
a different burner in the stoves. 

The stove. — An individual stove with 3-inch legs, the flame-bars 
arranged spoke-shape and encircled by an iron ring 8 inches in diame- 
ter. This is the stove on the market, which we have modified to our 
use by cutting off the legs as short as possible and fastening an iron 
plate over the top to hold small pots. The flame bed is far too large 

* Presented at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, January, 1910. 

654 



igio] Acetylene for Domestic Science Kitchen 655 

and we are devising means to cut the gas oflf from the end holes of the 
spokes until such time as the manufacturers put a small stove on the 
market. This stove is made in the United States. 

Cost of installation, including the machine, stoves, plumbing, etc. 
was $3 1 7 .40. In this connection it might be remembered that western 
prices for both goods and labor are high in comparison with eastern 
prices. 

Carbide. — Rice carbide could be purchased in Merritton, Ont., at 
$100 per ton laid down in Regina. 

Management. — This is very simple. There is no storage chamber 
in our machine. The janitor turns a stop-cock at the machine and 
when the stoves are lighted the gas generated. The janitor removes 
the sludge three times a week and puts in as much water as he removes 
sludge. Full and clear directions accompany the machine. 

In lighting the burners we had at first some trouble with the flame 
flashing back. This is a very noisy and nerve-racking thing, but 
is overcome as soon as the operator learns to light the burner properly. 

Feasibility as a class-kitchen fuel. — Acetylene is much cleaner than 
coal gas, with a more even and certain heat, and the heat is very 
intense. So far I like it much better than coal gas and think it will 
prove a superior fuel when we get a suitable stove. At present we 
have twelve inches of flame when two inches would do the work. 

Cost of running in comparison with ordinary gas. — We cannot yet 
make satisfactory comparisons. The plant has been running but a 
short time and as it is something new the members of the board bring 
many visitors. Each time one or more burners are lighted and I 
am not always at hand to note the length of time they are in use. 
Again, there was at first a considerable leakage through an undis- 
covered sand-hole in a basement pipe. We are, however, planning 
to keep careful account of the amount of carbide used in a given 
time for a given number of students. At present our belief is that it 
is not an expensive fuel. 



NOTE ON THE SETTING OF GELATINE. 

Olive Gair Patterson and C. C. Benson.' 

Laboratory of Physiological Chemistry. University of Toronto. 

A number of factors are said to influence the formation of a good 
jelly from gelatine, such as the need of a small amount of calcium 
and the avoidance of continued boiling. Experiments have therefore 
been undertaken to study these factors and to learn how far they 
do influence the gelatinizing power. 

In the first place pure sheet gelatine was used as being the purest 
commercial product obtainable. This contained 2.2 per cent of min- 
eral matter and gave positive tests for calcium. If calcium is neces- 
sary to the setting of gelatine as it is for the clotting of milk and coag- 
ulation of blood, continued washing to remove the ash (and in it the 
calcium) should destroy the power of forming a jelly. This was not 
found to be the case. The gelatine was dissolved in water (2 gms. in 
100 cc.) and washed in many changes of distilled water for some days 
and dialyzed for several days more against distilled water. Four 
weeks of such treatment produced a gelatine containing only o.oi 
per cent of ash and yet forming a good jelly. The ash in this case was 
obtained by carbonizing, extracting any soluble mineral matter, and 
then ashing the residue. The extract contained no ash, all the min- 
eral matter being in the insoluble part. 

The gelatine used gives a good tyrosin (oxyphenyl) reaction with 
Millon's reagent, although the tabulated records of gelatine compo- 
sition show the absence of tyrosin. Tyrosin seemed therefore to be 
an impurity in the brand used, but was also found in other commer- 
cial specimens tested. The washing for four weeks with distilled 
water and dialyzing with distilled water did not produce a gelatine 
giving a negative Millon's test, but on dialyzing another solution of 
gelatine (2 gm. in 100 cc. hot distilled water) against running tap 
water for four weeks, it was found that the solution no longer gave 

^ Presented at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, January, iqio. 

656 



1 9 1 o] Note on the Setting of Gelatine 657 

Millon's test. The solution had, however, become diluted. When it 
was carefully evaporated down on a water bath and left in the cold 
it set into a clear, firm jelly. Gelatine may, therefore, be freed of its 
mineral matter and tyrosin-holding impurities without affecting the 
gelatinizing power of its solutions. 

The influence of boiling on gelatine solutions has also been tested. 
Two grams of gelatine dissolved in 100 cc. of distilled water were 
boiled under a reflex condenser. After one hour's boiling the solution 
still set into a firm jelly. After five hours it formed a jelly but not so 
firmly. After seven hours, a soft jelly formed on standing over night, 
and after ten hours a soft jelly could be formed only by concentrating 
to half the volume. A process of hydrolysis had evidently been going 
on, for on "salting out" these solutions with ammonium sulphate 
at half saturation and complete saturation, different fractions are 
obtained. After one hour's boiling the first fraction is larger than the 
second but after five hours boiling the second fraction is the larger. 
After five hours boiling even complete saturation with ammonium 
sulphate leaves in solution a body which gives a positive biuret reac- 
tion. A few minutes boiling did not at all injure the jelly-forming 
power but made a clearer jelly when the mixture set. 

Further experiments are being made to test the effects of boiling 
and some tests have already been made with solutions containing 
citric and acetic acids, since in jelly-making processes acids from fruit 
juices are generally present. Four per cent gelatine solutions con- 
taining citric acid to a concentration of one per cent still set in the 
cold after fifteen minutes boiling but after ten minutes boiling of a 
three per cent solution with 0.5 per cent citric acid the gelatinizing 
power had been considerably decreased. More work is needed before 
definite results can be obtained and this will, we hope, be done during 
the coming session. 



A DAY'S METABOLISM.' 

C. C. Benson, M. B. Tamblym, and Students. 

University of Toronto. 

In the spring of 1907 some experiments were made in the houriy 
examination of renal excretions. The value of these experiments was 
much increased by a knowledge of the nitrogen intake. The house- 
hold science department kindly provided a day's meals on two occa- 
sions and furnished data giving all necessary information. The 
amounts of food eaten were carefully weighed, their composition 
assumed from Atwater's tables, and the nitrogen content calculated 
accordingly. The meals were taken from sets of meals, the actual 
food for which could be purchased in Toronto at 25 cts. per person 
per day. The meals were prepared and the weights determined. 

In the experiment here referred to, the breakfast consisted of 
farina with dates, omelet, graham muffins with butter, toast, coffee 
and milk. The dinner was soup, roast beef, potatoes and cabbage, 
potato biscuit, Spanish cream and water; and the supper was baked 
beans and brown bread, fruit salad with maple biscuits, butter, tea, 
milk and sugar. This made a total weight of 2022 gms., giving 1540 
gms. of water, 72.25 gms. of protein (11.56 gms. nitrogen), and 2212 
calories of energy. 

The urine was collected at intervals of about one hour from 7 a.m. 
to 7 p.m. on the day of the experiment and also in toto for the 24 hours. 
The samples were analyzed as required by the nature of the experi- 
ment. The total excretion amounted to 1248 cc. and contained 9.74 
gms. of nitrogen. The fecal nitrogen amounted to 1.38 gms. There 
was therefore, a nitrogen balance of +0.44 gms. for the 24 hours. 
Phosphorus determinations were also made by titrating with standard 
uranium acetate solution. The total excretion of phosphorus for the 
24 hours was 0.70 gms. The sodium chloride excreted was 7.2 gms. 

We have here only outlined a single metabolism experiment for one 
day. Others of a similar kind have been undertaken with the coop- 
eration of the household science and physiological chemistry depart- 
ments, in some of which the whole work has been carried on by stu- 
dents. We hope to continue such experiments and feel that these 
two departments can be of great assistance to each other in such ways. 

' Presented at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, January, 1910. 

658 



A REVIEW OF RECENT SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE 
BEARING ON DOMESTIC ART.' 

C. F. Langworthy, Ph.D. 

Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agrir.tdlure. 

For many years American investigators and teachers have made a 
systematic attempt to follow the reports of experiments which have 
to do with the general subject of food and nutrition. Such work is 
very extended and constantly increasing, as may be seen by compar- 
ing the amount of space it now occupies in such reference journals as 
the Experiment Station Record and Chemical Abstracts with that 
required in earlier volumes. Furthermore, a great deal of attention has 
been paid to collecting and summarizing the literature of food and 
nutrition in connection with the nutrition investigations of the Office 
of Experiment Stations. Perhaps it was because food and nutrition 
bore so obvious a relation to well established branches of science such 
as medicine, physiology, physiological chemistry, and physics that 
the workers in this subject naturally followed the methods with which 
they were familiar in the study of the older and more well established 
branches. Then, too, it must be said that although much of the hter- 
ature pertaining to the subject of food and nutrition is published in 
foreign journals and reports not usually found in libraries in the United 
States, a large part of it can be found in journals which are well known 
and readily accessible. A fairly extended survey of scientific journals, 
reports of learned societies, and similar material leads to the conclu- 
sion that scientific literature bearing on domestic art i? more scat- 
tered and less easily accessible. 

Just why this should be the case it is difficult to say, but the fact 
remains that no attempt comparable with that made in the case of 
nutrition has been made to collect and digest systematically the sci- 
entific material which bears upon the subjects included under the 
general heading domestic art. Perhaps one reason is that what we 

» Presented at the Third Graduate School of Home Economics, Ames Iowa 
July, 1910. 

659 



66o The Journal of Home Economics [December 

know as domestic art has such an obvious relation to aesthetics and 
to the fine arts in general, as well as to technical subjects related to 
the principal activities of the home, that the teacher has found a suffi- 
cient amount of material of this character to provide extended courses of 
instruction and has not been forced to fall back upon the laboratory for 
fundamental facts in the same way as the teacher of physiological 
chemistry. Be that as it may, it is certainly true that domestic art 
may be approached from the laboratory and that it must be if it is to 
mean more than discriminating taste and skill in household activities. 
It is well recognized that it does mean more than this, as is obvious 
from the character of the work which is being carried on in so many 
of our schools and colleges. 

Since domestic art has to do with such a wide range of topics and 
so many materials, it is to be expected that numerous branches of 
science would contribute facts of interest to the domestic art stu- 
dent. Even a cursory survey of current scientific and technical lit- 
erature shows that such is the case and that a wealth of material is 
being provided which only needs gathering and interpretation to prove 
of great value. With the idea of finding out something of the char- 
acter and extent of this material the attempt has been made in this 
paper to bring together references to recent literature which seem of 
importance in the discussion of domestic art problems. It is recog- 
nized that the list of references is not complete and that the result is 
not all that might be desired. It is hoped, however, that enough has 
been done to prove the correctness of the contention that current 
scientific literature contains much material of fundamental import- 
ance to the domestic art teacher who wishes to see the subject recog- 
nized as one which is as worthy of serious study as engineering, medi- 
cine, or other branches of learning, and one which may be approached 
by similar methods. 

For convenience the material collected has been grouped under a 
number of general headings such as textiles and clothing, laundry 
materials and methods, building materials and household articles, 
illuminants and fuels, and hygiene and the home. 

TEXTILES AND CLOTHING. 

The value of textiles for use as clothing is dependent upon a num- 
ber of physical properties, one of which is the permeability to air. 
From a theoretical standpoint this is a physical problem which is 



iQio] Recent Literature on Domestic Art 66i 

dependent upon the laws governing the passage of gases through ca- 
pillary tubes or openings, cloth being, of course, for all essential purposes 
a system of very short capillary tubes. At the Hygienic Institute of 
the University of Leipsic, P. Schmidt {Arch. Hyg., 70, 1909, No. 1-2, 
p. 8) has studied this problem and expressed his results in mathematical 
form. He concludes that under experimental conditions the passage 
of the air through the cloth followed the law for capillaries, the quan- 
tity of air passing through being proportional to the pressure and indi- 
rectly proportional to the resistance. When expressed in the form of 
curves the results with thin cloth with open meshes, such as flannel, 
batiste, etc., showed that the curves were combinations of straight 
lines and parabolas. A practical conclusion from the work is that 
materials differ in their resistance to the passage of air currents, that 
this resistance is a measurable quantity, and that it should be taken 
account of in the rational selection of clothing for different climates 
and different conditions. The experimental method is described and 
could be easily adapted to students' laboratory work. 

K, B. Lehmann and J. Siegler {Arch. Hyg., 66, 1908, No. 4, p. 297) 
have studied the relative power of woolen and cotton to absorb per- 
spiration, particularly with reference to the use of cotton and woolen 
stockings in the German Army. They conclude that when cotton 
stockings are worn over woolen stockings the perspiration is quickly 
withdrawn from the woolen, since cotton has a decidedly great power 
of absorbing water and the feet do not remain damp. When the con- 
ditions are reversed and the cotton is worn next the skin the moisture 
remains in the stockings as wool does not withdraw it readily from the 
cotton and carry it off. The results are discussed particularly with 
reference to Cramer's conclusion that the readiness with which sodium 
chloride in perspiration passed through clothing is an important 
factor in considering its hygienic value. Cramer's work, which was 
published in 1890, had to do with the relation between clothing and 
the functions of the skin. 

The results of such investigations as these are very important for 
the intelligent discussion of the problem of clothing. Those who 
attended the Summer School at Ithaca will recall that Prof. Zuntz 
spoke at length of his work on clothing in relation to comfort and his 
conclusion that a double-faced cloth was preferable for severe exer- 
cise, the upper surface being of such a nature that it would absorb 
the moisture given off by the body and permit much to be readily 
evaporated, while the under surface, which had opposite properties, 



662 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

would hinder a sudden chilling of the surface. He called attention to 
the fact that the material was less important than the character of 
the fabric and that with modern factory methods it was possible to 
treat fibers in such a way that both qualities could be obtained with 
the same material and that an all-wool or all-cotton fabric could be 
made which was double-faced and would fulfil the desired conditions. 

The relative value from a hygienic standpoint of clothing of dif- 
ferent colors in intense sunlight was studied at the Hygienic Institute 
of the University of Leipsic by P. Schmidt {Arch. Hyg., 69, 1909, No. 
I, p. i). A full account of the experimental methods which he fol- 
lowed is given in his report. Of thick materials through which air 
does not pass readily, that is, such goods as are often chosen for sum- 
mer clothing or such as are often worn in the tropics, he concludes 
that white is more hygienic than dark colors. In the case of thin 
materials through which air readily passes, preference is to be given 
to dark materials, provided the clothing is loose and does not hang 
close to the body; in other words, by such garments as the Japanese 
kimonas, the thin silk pajamas, and similar garments which are com- 
monly worn in the tropics. The ventilation of such clothing is affected 
not alone by its porosity, but also by wide sleeves and loose trousers. 

Sunstroke, the author concludes, is not caused by the ultraviolet 
rays, as has been claimed, but to the fact that the bright rays of light 
penetrate deep into the body, and being absorbed, are converted into 
heat. In a study of the efficiency of various sorts of clothing as pro- 
tection against sunstroke, his conclusions are not favorable to the Eng- 
lish goods which have been advocated, which are white on the outside 
and red underneath. 

Many other questions which have to do with clothing in hot cli- 
mates and hot seasons are also studied and the investigation as a 
whole is a good illustration of the attempt to study the hygiene of 
dress by scientific methods. 

A reference to this problem naturally suggests the elaborate dis- 
cussion of the question of protection by the color of the skin, the pro- 
tective power of clothing, and other similar questions which have to 
do with life in the tropics included in the volume recently published 
by Major Charles E. Woodruff, of the U. S. Army, entitled Expansion 
of Races. He has also published a paper on The EJfccts of Tropical 
Light on White Men, which is concerned with the same question. 
Major Woodruff's conclusion is that owing to the color of their skin, 
the brown and black races are naturally protected from the harmful 



19 1 o] Recent Literature on Domestic Art 663 

effects of the bright sunlight of the tropics, and that it is impossible 
for the white races to attain a complete immunity by special clothing 
or other modifications of their usual living conditions. 

There are many other questions having to do with fibers and textiles 
which have been studied experimentally, including dyes and dyeing, 
the action of light on color, the detection of adulteration of fibers and 
fabrics, and similar topics. In summarizing such work mention should 
be made of L. A. Olney's volume on Textile Chemistry and Dyeing 
(Chicago: Amer. School of Correspondence, 1909, pp. xi + 343), and 
Prof. J. M. Matthews' Laboratory Manual of Dyeing and Textile 
Chemistry (New York: John Wiley & Sons; London, Chapman & 
Hall, Ltd., 1909, pp. xii + 363). An interesting theoretical discussion 
of the dyeing of textile fibers is presented by S. H. Higgins {Chcm. 
News, 99, 1909, No. 2576, p. 169) in a recently published paper. 

A paper by P. G. Jones (Jour. Soc. Dyers and Colourists, 26, 1910, 
No. 6, p. 147), entitled Some Observations on the Action of Light on 
Finished Dyed Cotton Goods, is of decided interest in connection with 
the wearing quality of colored goods, and it seems fair to say that such 
data as the author reports must be taken into account in an intelli- 
gent discussion of the selection of materials and permanency of color. 
It is the generally accepted theory that the fading of color on exposure 
to light is due to an oxidation process, and this question is discussed 
by Jones, and some data reported which have to do with the theory 
that perhaps reduction may also be involved. As regards the tech- 
nique of cotton dyeing, he found that the use of dextrin with alizarin 
oil in finishing had a very favorable effect on the fastness of color. 

Papers of similar character to the one noted are very numerous 
and are published in such journals as the Journal of the Society of Dyers 
and Colourists, issued at Bradford, England. Some of the abstract 
journals include such work. 

The study of the detection of the adulteration of fabrics reported 
by Miss Nellie Crooks {Harper's Weekly, 54, 1910, March 5, p. 11) 
is of course familiar to all and is a good example of a paper which is 
of importance from a practical as well as from a laboratory stand- 
point. 

As a contribution to the subject of the examination of textile fab- 
rics may be mentioned G. Tagliani's paper {Rev. Gen. Mat. Color., 
13, 1909, p. 221; abs. in Chem. Abs., 3, 1909, No. 22, p. 2755) on 
methods of the Italian Customs Service for detecting sizing in cotton 
goods. The official method is described and a modification proposed. 



664 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [December 

A discussion of the question of the subject of fibers and textiles 
should take account of at least a few of the volumes which have been 
published on this subject in recent years. In The Structure of the Wool 
Fiber and its Relation to the Use of Wool for Technical Purposes (Lon- 
don: Macmillan & Co., Ltd., 1908, pp. xx -f 475), F. H. Bowman 
discusses classification of fibers, the origin and development of the 
hair, and a great variety of questions concerned with the wool raising 
industry, the chemical composition of wool, the action of reagents on 
wool, theory of dyeing and color, and related questions. Attention is 
especially directed to his chapter on methods of analysis and the detec- 
tion of various fibers. 

Daniel ZoUa's book on textile fibers of animal origin {Les Fibres 
Textiles d'Origine Animate, Paris: O. Doin et Fils, 1910, pp.ix-4- 
362) is a fairly exhaustive study of wool and other fibers from an 
industrial and statistical standpoint, though a considerable amount 
of scientific data are also included. 

A very important work on this subject which was published a lit- 
tle earlier than most of the material referred to in this summary is 
Prof. J. M. Matthews' volume entitled The Textile Fibres: Their Phy- 
sical, Microscopical and Chemical Properties (New York: John Wiley 
& Sons, 1907, pp. viii -|- 480; London: Chapman & Hall, Ltd). It 
contains data on the chemical nature and properties of wool and hair 
fibers, silk, cotton and other vegetable fibers, mercerized cotton, 
artificial silk, and chapters on the quantitative and qualitative analy- 
sis of textile fibers. 

Though published somewhat earlier than the bulk of the material 
included in this summary, it seems desirable to mention Bersch's vol- 
ume, translated from the German by W. T. Brannt, entitled Cellulose, 
Cellulose Products, and Artificial Rubber (Philadelphia: Henry Carey 
Baird & Co; London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Triibner & Co., Ltd., 
1904, pp. xxi + 345). This volume treats of the preparation of cel- 
lulose from wood and straw; the manufacture of parchment; methods 
of obtaining sugar, alcohol, and oxalic acid; the production of viscose 
and viscoid, nitro-celluloses, and cellulose esters, artificial silk, cellu- 
loid, rubber substitutes, oil-rubber, and factis. In other words, this 
volume supplies a great amount of information regarding the manu- 
facture of mercerized goods, artificial silk, and many other similar 
products, including their chemistry and technology. 



1910] Recent Literature on Domestic Art 665 

LAUNDRY MATERIALS AND METHODS. 

Many investigators have studied problems which have to do with 
the materials used in the laundry or with the processes which are 
applied in laundry work. 

W. Kind {Die Wirkung der Waschmittel auf Baumwolle und Leinen. 
Wittenberg, 1908; abs. in Ztschr. Chem. u. Indus. Kolloide, 5, 1909, 
No. 2, p. 84) studied the effect of various washing materials on cot- 
ton and linen and reached the conclusion that not only did water 
glass (sodium silicate) injure fibers, but many other alkaline substances 
such as soda. The rapid destruction of garments, etc., in laundries, 
he states, is not always due to the use of chlorin as a bleaching agent 
but very often is to be ascribed to the action of alkali. It is doubtless 
well known to all familiar with laundry processes that excessive alkali 
is injurious, but nevertheless it seems not uninteresting to be able to 
substantiate opinions by the results of carefully conducted labora- 
tory work. 

Data on the detergent power of soaps have been reported by W. 
Spring {Ztschr. Chem. u. Indus. Kolloide, 4, 1909, No. 4, pp. 161-168). 
The experiments reported in this paper have to do with the methods 
and theories of colloidal chemistry, and it is difficult to present the 
material satisfactorily in the limits of a brief abstract. 

Of interest in connection with laundry work are such papers as 
Dafert's and Wolfbauer's study {0 ester reichische Chemikerzeitg., 1908, 
No. 12; abs. in Ztschr. Chem. u. Indus. Kolloide, 5, 1909, No. 2, p. 84) 
of the effect of resin soaps, which they conclude are of less value 
than pure fat soaps and which impart a distinctive color to fabrics 
washed with them. 

J. Leimdorfer {Augsburg Seifensiederzeitg., 35, 1908; abs. in Ztschr. 
Chem. u. Indus. Kolloide, 5, 1909, No. 2, p. 84) studied experimentally 
the effect of different materials used in laundry work. 

The disinfecting power of soap has been frequently studied, and 
perhaps the mention of a paper on this subject published by H. 
Reichenbach {Ztschr. Hyg. u. Infectionskrank., 1908, pp. 296; abs. in 
Ztschr. Chem. u. Indus. Kolloide, 5, 1909, No. 2, p. 84) will sufl&ce for 
an illustration of such work. In general, it was shown that the dis- 
infecting properties are dependent upon both alkali and the salts 
of fatty acids obtained from the hydrolytic cleavage of the soap rather 
than from either group alone. These papers and many others which 
have to do with soap are included in an annual review of the soap 



666 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

industry by F. Goldschmidt {Ztschr. Chem. u. Indus. Kolloide, 5, 1909, 
No. 2, pp. 81-85), published in a German journal devoted to chemistry 
and colloids, a journal which seems well worth the attention of stu- 
dents of all branches of Home Economics, as the newer theories which 
are brought together under the head, Colloid Chemistry, have a wide 
appHcation in many of the subjects which pertain to plant and animal 
life as well as many industrial processes. 

The question of the nature of the soapsuds or the soap bubble is one 
which seems to interest many persons. It can be the better answered 
by reference to investigations of this subject which have been brought 
together by C. Stiepel (Augsb. Seifensiederzeitg., 35, 1908, pp. 331, 
396, 420; abs. in Ztschr. Chem. u. Indus. Kolloide, 5, 1909, No. 2, p. 
84). It appears that the formation of suds is dependent upon a con- 
dition of dissociation in the soap, that is, upon the presence of water- 
soluble soap and free fatty acid or acid soap. The presence of free 
alkali is a help when it insures a sufficient amount of soap in water- 
soluble form, that is, by reversing the dissociation of the soap, which 
would continue until a condition of complete insolubility was reached, 
provided all the free alkali was removed. 

The question of the disinfection of clothing and other materials, 
dwellings, etc., is receiving a great deal of attention at the hands of 
investigators. As an example of such work may be mentioned G. 
Sobernheim's paper {Arch. Volkswohlfahrt, 2, 1909, No. 12, pp. 708- 
717; 3, 1909, No. I, pp. 12-14) on newer methods of house disinfection 
which summarizes data on the subject and directs attention to the 
great advance which has been made since formaldehyde has been 
available as a common market commodity and satisfactory methods 
have been found for using it. 

The question of the efficiency of ordinary laundry methods as steril- 
izing agents is one which often arises and apparently is generally 
answered by an expression of opinion one way or another, most per- 
sons holding that the soapsuds and hot water used in washing clothes 
and the heat required in ironing them should be fairly efficient. How- 
ever, we are apt to recall that the period of immersion in hot water 
may be short and that the mangles and ironing machines employed in 
laundries may not be hot enough or used for a long enough time to 
insure sterilization. It is therefore of interest to know that K. Svehla 
(Arch. Hyg., 70, 1909, No. 4, p. 373), of the Hygienic Institute of the 
University of Prague, studied the disinfecting power of pressing with 
a hot iron, particularly with reference to its use in disinfecting the 



iQio] Recent Literature on Domestic Art 



667 



clothing of physicians and attendants in cases of contagious diseases. 
He concludes that pressing with a hot iron is a simple and good method 
of sterilizing clothing and states that in his own practice he uses a 
long linen coat or mantle which is sprinkled and pressed each time it 
is used. Such a coat can be worn in the sick room and left with the 
family for pressing. This does not involve a great amount of work, 
and it seems a simple prophylactic measure. 

Bleaching, as every one knows, is an important laundry process 
and will be the better understood by one who is familiar with K. J. P. 
Orton's and W. J. Jones' study of A Crystalline Bleaching Powder 
{Jour. Chem. Soc, London, 95, 1909, I, p. 751), which was recently 
published. 

Papers which have to do with drying machines for chemical 
work have been reported by W. B. Ruggles {Met. Chem. Eng., 8, 
1910, p. 177; abs. in Chem. Abs., 4, 1910, No. 12, p. 1655) and W. E. 
Wadman {Met. Chem. Eng., 8, 1910, p. 176; abs. in Chem. Abs., 4, 
1910, No. 12, p. 1655). As these papers have to do with conditions 
which effect efficiency, they are of possible interest in connection with 
devices for drying clothes in laundries on a commercial scale or in the 
home or farm laundry. Fortunately, the possibility of equipping the 
home or farm laundry with mechanical devices which lessen labor 
has been demonstrated by work such as that of Washburn. 

BUILDING MATERIALS AND HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES. 

No one can deny that the most intelligent use of building materials 
depends upon a knowledge of their chemical and physical properties. 
A great deal of work is being published at the present time which has 
to do with the character of cement and with various problems con- 
cerned with its use. Similar work is also published regarding asphalt, 
wood products, and other materials. Papers of this character are pub- 
lished in a great variety of journals and reports, but the work is reg- 
ularly abstracted in Chemical Abstracts, published by the American 
Chemical Society. As an example of the work with wood may be 
mentioned H. Wislicenus' paper (Z. Chem. u. Ind. Kolloide, 6, 1910, pp. 
17, 87; abs. in Chem. Abs., 4, 1910, No. 12, p. 1621) on The Colloidal 
Processes of Wood Formation and the Nature of Wood and Lignin. 
The author discusses from a physiological and theoretical standpoint 
the nature of wood, lignin, and the wood-building process. Wood, he 
states, considered after the original cellulose formation in the plasma, 



668 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

is the result of colloidal chemical processes, dependent on gelatiniza- 
tion and colloidal absorption. Lignin is one of the colloids precipitated 
from the sap, of which one part enters reversibly, and the other part 
irreversibly, the cellulose structure. Early spring sap shows a low 
colloid content which increases as the leaves of the tree of plant develop, 
while sap in July and August, during the growing period, is high in 
colloids. 

As an example of another sort of work may be mentioned a paper on 
Treating Timber with Crude Petroleum as a preventive of decay, 
which was published by C. M. Taylor {Chem. Eng., ii, 1910, p. 35; 
abs. in Chem. Abs., 4, 1910, No. 12, p. 1667), and the question of The 
Strength of Treated Timber embodied in the Report of the Committee 
on Wood Preservation of the American Railway Engineering and 
Maintenance of Way Association (Chem. Abs., 4, 1910, No. 12, p. 
1668). 

Glass, pottery, and porcelain are of great interest and importance 
in the home, from the standpoint of decoration as well as that of util- 
ity. Technical studies which have to do with these materials are 
numerous and are well worth the attention of students and teachers. 
As illustrations may be mentioned the paper on The Foundations of 
Stained Glass Work by N. Heaton (J. Roy. Soc. Arts, 58, 1910, pp. 
454, 485; abs. in Chem. Abs., 4, 1910, No. 12, p, 1658), which contains 
chemical formulae which have to do with the technique of stained 
glass, and likewise with the chemistry of the ground or sheet glass, 
the pigments, metallic oxids, etc., used to give color, and the technique 
of fusion, etc., and also include the chemistry of the processes involved. 

A contribution to the same subject is made by E.Grieshammer 
{Sprechsaal, 43, 1910, pp. 153, 165; abs. in Chem. Abs., 4, 1910, 
No. 12, p. 1658) in his paper on The Solubility of Metallic Sulphides 
in Glass. 

The effectiveness of insulating materials is a matter which concerns 
the household as well as the cold storage industry. It is self-evident 
that the heating problem in the home is a question of insulation, as is 
also the problem of the effectiveness of a refrigerator or ice chest. For 
this reason such a paper as W. D. A. Bost's (Cold Storage and Ice 
Assoc. Proc, 8, 1909, No. 2, p. 89), entitled Apparatus for Determin- 
ing the Conductivities of Insulating Materials, is of interest. This 
gives an illustrated description of the apparatus and methods employed 
in discussing insulating problems with special reference to cold stor- 
age, but the apparatus and methods could be easily adapted to the 
study of household materials by students in the laboratory. 



1910] Recent Literature on Domestic Art 669 

W. Hoffmann {Arch. Hyg., 68, 1908, No. i, p. 54), at the Hygienic 
and Chemical Laboratory .of Emperor Williams's Academy for Train- 
ing Army Physicians, studied the heat conducting power of linoleum 
of different sorts and found that the conducting power of linoleum 
was dependent upon the proportions of cork and linoxym used in its 
manufacture. The linoleum which was poorest in this respect was a 
much better conductor of heat than wooden flooring and it was there- 
fore the less efficient for this purpose. Wooden floors without lino- 
leum were found to be poorer conductors of heat than floors made 
with a thick layer of plaster-of-Paris compound covered with lino- 
leum. These investigations are of interest not only for their obvious 
relation to the economical heating of houses or other apartments and 
the comfort of warm floors but for the information they give relative 
to experimental methods. 

ILLUMINANTS AND FUELS. 

H. Benndorf and W. Prausnitz {Arch. Hyg., 66, 1908, No. 4, 384), 
at the Physical and Hygienic Institute of the University of Graz, have 
studied the illumination of rooms by sunlight and described appara- 
tus for estimating the proportion of light and shade under different 
conditions. 

The relative hygienic value of different methods of artificial illumi- 
nation is a very important matter and one which has to do not only 
with health but also with problems which pertain to ventilation. S. 
Rideal, in The Relative Hygienic Values of Gas and Electric Light- 
ing {Jour. Roy. Sanit. Inst., 29, 1908, No. 2; also published in book 
form), has reported a comparative study of the hygienic value of gas 
and electric lighting with special reference to the condition in dwel- 
lings. In this work he has taken into account structural and lighting 
conditions, ventilation, the character and distribution of products of 
combustion and respiration, organic matter in the air, effects of 
gas leaks with special reference to carbon monoxid, physiological data 
such as pulse rates, respiration frequency, blood pressure, the number 
of blood corpuscles, animal heat and body temperature, body weight, 
mental fatigue, time reaction, eye fatigue, and other similar data, and 
a special experiment as to the poisonous effects of coal gas. Not only 
does his report represent a large amount of interesting original work, 
but it may also serve as a manual for the study of such problems since 
methods are described in considerable detail. 



670 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Quotations from the author's discussion of his results indicate the 
character of the conclusions which were drawn from his observations : 

With natural ventilation the proportion of carbonic acid in the air was practically 
identical for both illuminants (gas and electricity). 

The ventilating effect of the gas burners has thus proved competent to carry off 
the whole of their products, or an equivalent amount of the products of respiration. 

It is therefore not surprising that the search for the physiological effects of light- 
ing by gas has been in the main a fruitless one. 

The fifteen men have been subjected on more than fifty occasions to some 6,000 
tests of the kind best calculated to detect any such falling off in condition as might 
be expected to take place under either mode of illumination. The results of these 
tests have been carefully examined and averaged, and, with few exceptions, they 
absolutely fail to disclose any measurable difference between one mode of lighting 
and the other. Not only so, but in no case do they show any deviation from any 
normal conditions. It is not merely that the changes noted were well within the 
limits of accommodation. If this were all it would be a very poor answer to the 
question propounded, for it would obviously be unsatisfactory that a system of 
lighting should trench, no matter how slightly, upon that power of accommodation 
on which the body depends to safeguard it in the presence of adverse influences. 
Not only were the limits of accommodation never exceeded, but they were in no 
case even distantly approached, and the conditions which the physiological tests 
disclosed were in all cases entirely satisfactory. The differences found between the 
two lights were so small as to be absolutely devoid of any hygienic significance; they 
were, in fact, much less than those that are constantly produced in healthy sub- 
jects by slight changes in their condition or environment. 

There may be, and doubtless are, persons so peculiarly constituted as to find 
one light or other objectionable, or even to be unable to tolerate any artificial light 
whatever. Such cases belong to the domain of pathology rather than that of hygiene. 
On a review of the whole of the facts collected, it may be said, without reservation, 
that there is nothing is either mode of lighting which is incompatible with the best 
hygienic conditions. 

Owing to the better ventilation obtained by gas, i he products of combustion are 
not found in the air in anything like the proportion which might be expected, the 
temperature and humidity in an occupied room being no greater than when tne 
room is lit with electric light. 

Carbonic acid has not the injurious effect which was formerly attributed to it, 
but considerable rises in the temperature and moisture content of a room, from what- 
ever source, do have a prejudicial effect upon the well-being of the occupants. Even 
under adverse conditions of ventilation purposely created for this inquiry, neither 
the temperature nor percentages of moisture in the room reached a point at which 
any such effect could be detected by any of the recognized physiological tests. 

It has been established that the products, viz., heat, carbonic acid and moisture, 
so far as they modify the health of the occupants of a room, are derived from the 
inmates more than from the illuminant, and that a room of moderate size can be 
efficiently lighted by gas without sensibly affecting the amount of these three 
factors. 



iQio] Recent Literature on Domestic Art 671 

The medical conclusions are in accord with those arrived at from the chemical 
and physical data, and also demonstrate that the choice between the two systems of 
lighting does not depend upon hygienic considerations. 

The practical testing of gas and gas meters has been considered by 
C. H. Stone in an exhaustive manner in a recently published volume 
entitled Practical Testing of Gas and Gas Meters (New York: John 
Wiley & Sons; London: Chapman & Hall, Ltd., 1909, pp. x + 337). 
It is doubtless unnecessary for pupils to learn the technique of gas 
testing, but the teacher who is familiar with such works as this will 
without question be able to give clearer explanations of the vexing 
question of the gas meter. 

The fuels of the household have been considered by Marian White 
(Boston: Whitcomb & Barrows, pp. 97) in a recently published vol- 
ume which presents an interesting and valuable summary of available 
data. 

HYGIENE IN THE HOME. 

In preceding sections, articles have been cited which have to do 
with various questions of household hygiene. References to a num- 
ber of additional articles are here grouped together, particularly those 
which have to do with dust in relation to comfort and health, and with 
soaps and other materials. 

Clean air and clean streets are generally recognized as important 
from the standpoint of comfort and health. Many studies have been 
made which show the relation of such matters to the general subject 
of hygiene. 

The dust problem has been considered in a paper by D. Layriz 
(Die Staubplage und ihre Bekampfung. Munich, 1908; rev. in Arch. 
Volkswohlfahrt, 2, 1909, No. 6, p. 396) in which he considers the dust 
nuisance and ways of lessening it, with reference particularly to street 
dust. 

At the German Department of Public Health, R. Heise (Arb. a. d. 
Kais. Ges.-A, 30, 1909, No. i, p. 93; abs. in Hyg. Rundschau, 19, 1909, 
No. 23, p. 1365) studied 31 samples of materials recommended for the 
treatment of floors to prevent dust. The efficiency, cost, and other 
factors were taken into account as well as their composition. 

A paper which is of interest in this connection is G. Orsi's {Arch. 
Hyg., 68, 1908, No. i, p. 10), which proposes a method for estimating 
quantitatively the amount of soot in air. His work was carried on at 
the Hygienic Institute of the University of Berlin under Rubner's 
direction. Orsi also studied the amount of dust in air and his investi- 



672 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

gation contains much information regarding the character of dust, its 
effect on air. and the physical laws which govern the amount by air 
currents. 

Dust almost ine\itably implies bacteria associated with it. A new 
method for the bacteriological study of air is described by jM. Ficker 
{Arch. Hyg., 69, 1909, Xo. i, p. 48), of the Hygienic Institute of the 
Universit}^ of Berlin. Such work as this should be known to students 
of ventilation, as it is obvious that the whole question of ventilation 
must depend upon knowledge and not upon theory. 

The injur}' which may result from the use of cosmetics and similar 
materials is a subject in which the teacher may have occasion to 
speak, and it is interesting to know that such materials are quite com- 
monly analyzed in connection with pure food and drug work, so that 
reliable information is available regarding their composition and 
properties. As an example of such work may be cited Liirig's and 
Sartori's study (Jahrb. CJiem. Untersuch. Ami. Breslau. 190S-9, p. 58: 
abs. in Ztschr. Untersuch. Xahr. u. GenussmU., 19, 1910. Xo. 8, p. 460) 
of the composition of hair dj^es. 

Pupils commonly receive instruction regarding the hygiene of the 
body, but it is not always easy to supply the scientific data which 
should be the foimdation of such teaching. It is an easy matter to 
speak of the cleaning and disinfecting processes of soaps, mouth 
washes, etc., but much less easy to supply the chemical data which 
such subjects involve. The disinfecting action of ordinary tooth and 
mouth washes has been studied by R. Basseuge {Deut. Med. Wchnschr., 
35, 1909, No. 33. p. 1436; abs. inChem. Abs., 3, 1909, No. 22, p. 2711), 
and it is interesting to know that only two of the commercial products 
examined showed any bactericidal action. 

CONCLUSION. 

It would have been possible to extend greatly the list of references 
to papers similar in character to those included in the above summary, 
but the object was rather to make a preliminary survey of recent lit- 
erature than to compile an exhaustive summary of data. It is hoped 
that libraries in colleges and schools will find it possible to increase 
their list of journals which are probable sources of information per- 
taining to domestic art topics and that systematic attempts may be 
made to abstract such literature. If a special section devoted to such 
subjects could be included in some one of the standard abstract jour- 
nals, it would serve a very useful purpose. 



A LESSON IN HOUSE CONSTRUCTION FOR THE ELE- 
MENTARY GRADES/ 

Ethel Fifield Brooks, A.B., S.B. 

Architect. 

Young as you are, I want you to think now nice it would be to 
build a house some day, and if you learn a little about it now you can 
be noticing how houses are being built as you pass them in your walks. 
We are going to take for granted that this house will be in the country 
or edge of town and that it will stand by itself with the light and air 
coming to it on all sides. This way of living will make your family so 
much more healthy and happy that it is worth planning for and giving 
up other things for all these years that you are growing up. 

If we are so fortunate as to be able to build a house for ourselves, 
we must first ask how can a house be so built that it will be our very 
good friend and keep us always in good health, so far as a house can — 
and it can do a great deal more for us in that way than most of us 
realize. Can it give us, if we build it rightly, that which we need most 
of all to make us strong and well, sunshine and fresh air, and a great 
deal of both? And what can it refuse to give our enemies, the disease 
germs, that are always ready to attack us when we are not in the best 
of health? a dark, damp spot where they may grow and multiply. 

So we see that our house must be sunny and airy and dry, and 
when we go out to choose a place on which to build it we must have 
those three things in mind. 

Now, as to sunshine. If there are trees on the vacant lot which 
we look at which will shade our house too much we can have them 
cut down, so we will not refuse to buy the land for that reason; but 
if there are houses too near, or a hill which shuts off the sun, we can 
do nothing with them, so we will not buy, but look farther on. 

As to fresh air, we shall use our eyes very sharply for anything that 
will send us bad air to breathe, a factory, perhaps, or a tall apart- 

* Presented at the Boston Meeting of the Household Arts Section of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association, July 5-6, 1910. 

673 



674 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

ment house, that will shut off our fresh air. We must be careful, too, 
to choose a spot that is sheltered from the wind that blows dust and 
germs into our noses, and into our mouths, too, if we do not keep 
them shut. 

If we have found a sunny, airy place to build our house, we must 
next see whether it will be dry enough. You know there is a great 
deal of water in the earth; there may be hidden springs, and there is 
besides the water that falls from the sky. Some kinds of soil will 
keep the water in them, and some kinds will let it drain away. So 
we have borings made into the earth to find just what the soil is. If 
it is gravel, that is very good indeed, for gravel will let the moisture 
drain easily through it ; sand is nearly as good as gravel, and loam is 
next best; rock is good but expensive, as it must be blasted away to 
make a cellar. If we find that the soil is clay we shall probably build 
our house in another place, for clay is very bad indeed to build upon; 
when clay gets wet it stays wet for a long time — you know what 
happens when you step in a mud-puddle : The mud gives way in every 
direction and lets your foot down with a splash. It is the same thing 
that happens on a large scale if we put a foundation-wall on a clay 
bank: The rain comes, the clay soaks it up, and splash ! the clay skips 
away from under our wall and down comes the house. So we will not 
buy land that we find to be clay, neither will we' buy what is called 
"made land; " as somebody in The Chippendales said, it may be made 
of "gravel, tomato-cans and old hoop-skirts;" it may be made of 
decayed garbage, too, and other things too unpleasant to think about; 
so we will not buy "made land." 

While we have been hunting, however, we will suppose that we 
have found just the piece of land that we do want to buy, so we go 
to our architect and tell him exactly what kind of house we want 
It must be a house that shall be sunny, airy and dry, as well as beau- 
tiful, and so planned as not to waste our time and energy by making 
us take more steps than necessary in doing the house-work. We tell 
him that we want our windows large enough to let in plenty of sun- 
shine, and high enough to let out the hot, bad air that rises to the top 
of the rooms; the greater distance there is between the ceiling and the 
top of the windows, the more bad air will stay in the room, but if the 
window be high, and open at the top, all or nearly all of the bad air 
will escape. We tell the architect, too, to make all ceilings at least 
nine feet high, to give us good ventilation, and to allow at least looo 
cubic feet of air for each person who occupies a bed-room. That is. 



igio] A Lesson in House Construction 675 

if one person sleeps in a room, the room must be, say, ten feet long, 
ten wide and ten high; if two are to sleep there, the room must be 
twice as large. We shall also have in our house fireplaces and ventilat- 
ing-iiues to give us fresh air, and it is likely that we may have to insist 
upon some, if not all, of these points, for many people do not think 
of them when they build a house, and an architect may not under- 
stand that we want them if we do not insist pretty strongly. 

In order to be sure of getting sunlight into every room in the house 
at some time of day, we can find in the Nautical Almanac the exact 
point of the compass where the sun rises and sets on the shortest as 
well as the longest day of the year; and after our house is planned it 
will bewell to makea "sun-plan," too, for if we find that the sun does 
not between its rising and setting shine on one side of the house, as 
it had been arranged to stand, parallel to the street, by setting the 
house at a little different angle we can catch the sunshine on all sides. 

When the architect has satisfied us with the plans of the house we 
will go on with its building. Our house as planned is not only to 
be healthful, but beautiful also, for many of us do not realize what a 
difference it makes to us if we have beautiful surroundings in our 
daily life. And supposing that our architect has made the house 
all that we wish it to be on paper, we have next to see that it is so 
built as to be what we wish it in reality, and as the first of its 
building is the most important, that is the part that we will watch 
most closely; for if our foundation-walls and cellar are not dry, neither 
can the house itself be dry; if foundation and cellar-floor are not 
damp-proof the dampness will creep through into the cellar, and as 
the cellar-air rises through the house, the air in the house can be 
little better than that in the cellar; while if the foundation-walls 
become damp, the walls of the house will be damp, too, as the moisture 
rises. So we make our walls as nearly damp-proof as we can, with 
a coating of asphalt on the outside to keep out moisture and a layer 
of slate or asphalt or water-proof paper in the wall itself to keep the 
dampness from rising into the walls of the house. We make our 
cellar-floor damp-proof by layers of concrete, asphalt and again con- 
crete. It may be that we have found the soil to be full of moisture, 
and in that case before building either walls or floor we have first 
laid lines of tile drain-pipe to carry the moisture away, and even 
in a good soil we provide for carrying moisture away from outside the 
foundation-walls by having a ditch dug around them and a little 
deeper than they are, with drain-pipe at the bottom filled in with 



676 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

broken stone, gravel and sand; this will carry away the ground- 
moisture and the rain-fall from the foundation-walls. 

When the foundation is built, the walls of the house go up next, 
and these are of such material as suits our taste and our pocket-book. 
They may be brick, stone, concrete or wood. If we can afford it, 
we have our house built of fireproof material entirely, if not we see 
to it that the hollow places in walls and ceilings are so stopped that 
fire may not steal unseen from one story to another. And, by the 
way, these hollow spaces, containing air and acting as non-conductors, 
are a very good protection against heat in summer and cold in winter, 
besides keeping the house dryer than would a solid wall. 

When it comes to plumbing, we can only say that we must have the 
best — it may be simple, in fact it must be simple. The material 
must be of the very best, and put up by the best plumber we know, 
and especially we must insist that every fix<^ure, every sink and wash- 
tub and basin, every bath-tub and every water-closet shall have a 
separate trap to prevent the foul air from sewer and waste-pipes 
from rising into the house. 

These are the main things we have to think about when building 
a house. If we are buying instead we try to find a house that is as 
nearly as possible like the one we would build if we could. We try 
to find one that is airy and dry and sunny in every room, with no 
porch-roofs to shut out all the sunshine from a room (a summer 
awning is better), and with a dry, sweet cellar. If the house suits 
us, we have the plumbing tested to see if the pipes are quite tight. 

If we are looking for a boarding-place we choose a sunny room, we 
look into the kitchen to see if it is sunny, airy and clean, we go into 
the cellar to find out whether it is dry or not, and we sniff vigorously 
in the toilet-rooms to test the plumbing as much as the sense of smell 
can do it. For if there is a bad smell in the house, there must be a 
cause for it; if we can remove that cause, all well and good, if not, 
the quicker we get out the better for us. There is no friend more 
useful than a sensitive and well-trained nose. The railroads have a 
sign on grade-crossings, "Stop, look, listen." When we approach a 
crossing we act accordingly. Now, we can make a similar watchword 
for ourselves in choosing a living-place: is the cellar dry? are the traps 
in proper condition? is there a crack in a waste-pipe, a gas-pipe or 
fixture that leaks? — Stop, look, smell! 

It is a great responsibility to build a house. If we are choosing a 
boarding-place we have only ourselves to think of, but in building we 



iQio] A Lesson in House Construction 677 

have to think of our families, our children and perhaps our childrens 
children. No pains can be too great, no caution too minute. A 
house can be the best of friends or it can be the most dangerous 
enemy, because its dangers are unseen and unsuspected — and here is 
the especial argument against buying a house rather than building for 
oneself. Drainage, plumbing, foundations — how do we know what 
they are? If we find out at heavy cost — and we are lucky if the cost is 
only in money and not in health or even human life — it will call for 
further expense to make right what was wrong. Contractors are try- 
ing people to deal with, so are architects and plumbers, by reputation; 
but after all, what is a little annoyance if we are sure we are getting 
just what we want, and if we are sure that what we want is right for 
us to have? Remember, it is not only the house, it is the home! 
What house could be a happy home for our children if it were also a 
nursery for disease? But sunshine, fresh air, sweet odors, fine pro- 
portions — how better can we start our home? 



THE APPLICATIONS OF CEMENT IN RESIDENCE 
CONSTRUCTION. 

James M. White. 

Professor of Architeclural Engineering, University of Illinois. 

Concrete and stucco are not new constructive materials, but they 
have come into general use so recently that the usual effects obtained 
with them may be more appropriately described as novel, rather than 
artistic. The constructive value of a material is far more quickly ap- 
preciated than its artistic possibilities, and though there is ample 
proof of the durability of concrete there are only occasional evidences 
of a true appreciation of the logical treatment for it and of the ways 
by which color effects may be successfully introduced. 

An entire house may be built of concrete, but this article is to deal 
with outside walls only and they are usually built in one of the 
following ways: Monolithic concrete, which may be made either 
with or without an air space in the wall; monolithic concrete, with 
a hollow tile inside lining; monolithic concrete, with a hollow tile 
outside facing; concrete blocks; brick or hollow tile walls, with stucco 
exteriors; and frame buildings, with stucco exteriors, using either 
wood or metal lath. 

The essentials of a perfect wall are strength, dryness and beauty. 
There is no doubt about concrete complying with the first of these 
requisites, but experience has proved that, unless employed very 
skillfully, neither concrete nor stucco will make a non-absorbent 
wall. In some climates protection need be provided only against 
dampness which comes from the ground, or from the exterior, while 
in other places — because of the high humidity which prevails dur- 
ing certain periods of the summer — it is necessary to construct a 
wall so that the interior surface will change in temperature almost 
as rapidly as the temperature of the room, to prevent the moisture 
of the atmosphere from condensing upon it. 

A monolithic concrete wall, if mixed very wet, with one part of 
cement to six parts of sand and stone of suitable sizes, will be much 
more nearly waterproof than any other form of masonry construc- 
678 



iQio] Cement in Residence Construction 679 

tion. The same density of material cannot be secured with stucco, 
unless the surface is thoroughly troweled; but there is nothing artistic 
in a troweled finish and it should never be employed for residence 
walls above grade. 

The advocates of cement exteriors for houses have laid great stress 
upon the economy of maintenance because of itsbeing unnecessary to 
do any painting. This claim is justified in part, but my experience 
convinces me that painting at the outset is very essential to the 
proper preservation of most stucco surfaces, and that it is beneficial 
in all cases. Special cement paints should be used, and not the 
ordinary lead and oil ; and it is not necessary to keep on painting as 
with wood surfaces. 

Briefly summarized, the advantages and disadvantages of the 
different methods of construction are as follows: The monolithic 
concrete wall must receive some special treatment after the forms 
are removed. This may be very effectively done in several ways. 
The simplest method is to remove the forms as soon as possible and 
then to scrub the surface with a block of wood. This merely re- 
moves the form marks and makes the surface of a uniform texture, 
but does not give an artistic wall unless special precautions have 
been taken in choosing the materials which will appear on the surface 
when the fine particles of cement are removed. 

With very little additional trouble a better effect can be obtained 
by the following method: As soon as it can be done without remov- 
ing the coarser particles, the surface should be brushed with an 
ordinary scrubbing brush, with stiff palmetto fibers, or one with 
wire bristles. Two or three days after the brushing the surface 
should be washed down with a dilute acid solution, using one part 
of commercial muriatic acid to two or three parts of water. This 
solution may be applied with any kind of a brush, and while still 
wet, the surface should be thoroughly rubbed with a stiff vegetable 
fiber brush. The solution should not be allowed to remain upon the 
wall more than half an hour, and must be thoroughly washed off 
with clean water to avoid leaving a streaked or mottled appearance. 
If the surface cannot be treated until after it has become hard, a 
very effective finish can be obtained by pounding it all over with a 
stone mason's bush hammer. The effect shown in figure VI may be 
obtained by plastering the inside of the forms with clay and imbedding 
pebbles in it. After the forms are removed, the clay is easily washed 
off, leaving the pebbles fully exposed. 



68o The Journal of Home Economics IDecember 

If the monolithic wall is made hollow, the inside plaster can be 
applied directly to the wall; but the concrete must be left quite 
rough or the plaster will not adhere firmly. The use of a hollow 
tile lining for walls is to be recommended, in which case the hollow 
tile is laid up against the inside of the forms, and the concrete poured 
in behind it, which binds the whole mass together. This makes a 
splendid wall construction. The exterior should be treated with 
acid or bush hammered, for stucco cannot be successfully applied 
to a smooth concrete surface. 

The use of tile on the outside of the wall protects the concrete 
from the heat of the sun, and thereby maintains a more nearly uniform 
temperature on the interior, since the concrete wall changes tem- 
perature very slowly. The use of tile on the outside also gives an 
excellent opportunity for applying a stucco of any desired color or 
surface texture. 

The concrete block walls have been more extensively used than 
any others, because the walls can be laid up the same as masonry 
walls. Good concrete blocks can be made, but they are the exception ; 
and it is almost impossible to design a wall to be built of blocks 
which will have the necessary variety to make it attractive. The 
blocks are not readily changed in size, and a rigidity of design results 
which is usually extremely monotonous. 

In many localities there is good clay but very little sand or stone. 
In such cases brick is a more economical building material for the 
body of the wall than concrete. The artistic effects of cement 
exteriors may be obtained in this case by applying stucco. If the 
wall is built hollow, or is to be furred on the inside, the stucco may 
be applied directly to the brick surfaces; but if the wall is solid, it 
is advisable to coat it both on the outside and inside with one of the 
waterproofing compounds made for the purpose, which will prevent 
moisture entering the wall from outside, and avoid the staining of 
the plaster inside, without interfering at all with its bonding to the 
wall. The objection to tile walls, which are to be built of but a single 
thickness of tile, is that it is difi&cult to fill the end joints with mortar. 
If more than one tile is used in the thickness of the wall, this objec- 
tion is obviated. The waterproofing coatings can often be used to 
advantage on the inside of concrete walls to prevent plaster stains. 

Stucco on frame construction has been more generally employed 
than any of the other forms of cement finish. With this construction 
it is very necessary to secure an impervious coating, because the 



i<)iol Ccniriil ill liesidcnce Construction 68i 

freezing and thawinti; of so thin a layer will destroy it ; and the moisture 
will also corrode the metal lath, which is never fully imbedded in the 
cement. Even if lath is painted or galvanized, it will in time be 
rusted out. Wood lath, one inch wide, may be successfully used, 
if the nailings are not over twelve inches apart. 

The "rough cast" finish, which resembles figures IV and V, is the 
most durable, because the finer particles of cement are washed over 
the surface by the excess of water, which gives much the same 
finish that would be secured by brushing it over with a cement 
wash. Too rapid drying will surely cause cracks; and walls should 
be frequently sprinkled until well hardened. Such a surface may be 
tested for porosity by throwing water against it and noting whether 
it changes color, which is a sure indication that the surface has 
absorbed some of the moisture. Painting is the only ])ossible i)ro- 
tection for such a surface. 

The mission buildings of California have furnished many sugges- 
tions for the design of concrete buildings; but it is always unwise to 
transplant any style, without carefully considering its adaptability 
to existing climatic conditions. In the middle and eastern states 
where there are open winters, resulting in intermittent freezing and 
thawing, and frequent rain falls at all seasons of the year, it is unwise 
to ever employ outside stucco work without protecting it by a heavily 
overhanging roof. 

Frame houses often have many constructive defects which result 
in the buckling and breaking off of the stucco coating. All lumber 
employed for building purposes is more or less unseasoned, and if 
the studdings in the outside walls are not continuous throughout the 
entire height of the building, there is apt to be enough shrinkage at 
the floor levels to cause the breaking of the stucco. In remodeling 
old frame houses, of course this difficulty would not occur; and the 
simplicity of the lines of many an old house would make it very 
effective in stucco. Even wdth new lumber much of the difficulty 
mentioned may be obviated by using a wood belt course at the floor 
level, so as to break the stucco surface, though this usually makes it 
desirable to employ a half-timber effect for the walls above that line. 
Such a treatment is almost ahvays the most attractive, but great care 
is required to prevent the dampness getting behind the woodwork. 
Stained woodwork is much more effective with a cement exterior than 
painted woodwork, but the stain is not as efficient a i)reservative. 

There are given herewith six photographic reproductions of brushed 




Figure I — Cement and fine sand i : ,3. 




Figure II — Cement and coarse sand i : 3. 




Figure 111— Cement and J in. to J in. pebbles i 
Surfaces reduced one-half of originals. Cement MIXTURES. 




Figure 1\' — Cement and red granite screenings i : 2.J. 




Figure \' — Cement and j in. granite screenings i : ^J. 




Figure \ 1 — Cement and black pebbles i : 25. 
Reproductions are actual size. CeMENT MIXTURES. 



6^4 The JouDial of Home Economics [December 

concrete surfaces produced in the laboratory of the L'ni\ersal Port- 
land Cement Company. The difference between these surfaces and 
that of ordinary gravel concrete is very striking, yet they are all 
practical, commercial finishes, and can be obtained by the use of 
material from an ordinary gravel bank. Figure I shows a compara- 
tively fine, even-grained surface, composed of one part cement and 
three parts of fine sand, all of which passed a No. 8 and was retained 
upon a No. 50 mesh screen. Figure II is very much like Figure I in 
general appearance and color, but of a rougher, more uneven texture. 
This surface is a i:,^ mixture, with coarse sand, passing through a 
Xo. 4 and retained on a No. 8 screen. Figure III represents a finish 
made from a 1 13 mixture of cement, and from j m. to i in. pebbles. 
Thus these surfaces are identical in every respect, except as to size of 
aggregate. The three surface finishes were all produced by the same 
method of treatment. 

Figure IV shows a decidedly pleasing,, even-grained surface com- 
posed of one part cement and two and one-half parts red granite 
screenings, all of which passed a No. 8 and was retained on a No. 16 
sieve. Figure V is a reproduction of a surface composed of one part 
cement to two and one-half parts ordinary, quarter-inch, granite 
screenings, the material passing a No. 8 sieve being rejected. Both 
these surfaces are quite similar in every respect" except in texture, 
that represented by Figure V being of a rougher, coarser grained 
texture than the other. As the cement is barely perceptible on these 
surfaces both look very much like rough, undressed red granite, the 
color being practically the same as that of the screenings of which 
they were made. Figure VI represents a treated surface composed 
of one part cement to two and one-half parts of black pebbles, varying 
in size from those retained on a No. 10 sieve to those passing a 1 1 
inch mesh. The cut gives but a poor idea of the pleasing contrast 
between the light colored cement background and the black pebbles 
which stand out in bold relief from the surface. 

There is no doubt but that cement architecture has come to stay; 
but there is still much to be learned about the limitations of the 
material and the imjjortance o" extreme care in the workmanship. 



EDITORIALS. 

The city of Baltimore with its good record for holding the first 
Tuberculosis Conference and Exhibit in this country and the first 

The MeeW of '°.f ^'^ ^""-^ ''^^^^' ^" '^' ''''''''' ^^ '^'^^ 
the Amerk^ " ^" '" ''' ''''^'' '^' ^^^^^^^^°" «^ -mother 
Ace. w ? >mportant movement. From November o-n 

Studv fnTp "" '^^' ^" ^^^^ ^''y ^^^ fi-^ --f-ence for't^ 

Study and Pre- Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality 

Mo alitv r '' T ^ ^°^^'^^ ^^^^^^«"' ^^^^^ ^^'^ ^e- 

iviortaiity. j.^ered by many well recognized authorities on 

hygiene and pediatrics and by younger men and 
women whose work in these lines will be no less well known in 
the future. A remarkably well chosen and well mounted exhibit in 
the corridors of McCoy Hall of the Johns Hopkins University was 
open to the public for a week and itenforced by ocular demonstration 
the statements made by the lecturers. 

That it is high time to start a crusade of this kind was evidenced 
by the startling character of the statistics brought out: That out of 
IOC children born alive 13 die; that the mortality for all ages from 
tuberculosis of the lungs is 50 per cent less than the mortaHty from 
all causes among infants; that of the 300,000 children who die yearly 
in this country fully one-half or 150,000 need not die; these being 
moderate estimates drawn from a restricted area, since statistics of 
birth are shamefully neglected in most of our municipalities. 

Who is to solve this great problem? In the words of Dr Wilbur 
C. Phillips, secretary of the New York Milk Commission, 

In the last analysis, infant mortality is to be solved, not by philanthropy or 
motherho"or'' °' ^^ '^^ '"''^'^' profession, or by the state, but by inteUigent 

And around the present and future motherhood of the country 
a cordon, as it were, is to be drawn; the doctor, the nurse, the milk 
depot, the hospital, the school, the visiting dietitian are all uniting 
to tram the girl and the young mother and to follow the infant through 
every week of its early life. The time has evidently gone by for 

685 



686 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

parents to assume that the rearing of their children belongs exclu- 
sively to them. If they do not know their business, or knowing, do 
not perform it, the community must step in. It has too much at 
stake; these infants are to be citizens, either able to carry their share 
of the burdens or to be a dead weight upon the able bodied. 

Throughout the meetings there was evident what might be called 
a feeling of insurgency, of revolt, against the meager share now given 
in systems of education to all that makes for the conservation of 
life and health and the development of efficiency in the individual. 
It was charged that medical schools give insufficient time to training 
in preventive medicine and hygiene and to pediatrics, the study of 
infant life ; also that instruction in normal schools is far behind modern 
requirements, "ninety-three per cent of their questions in physiology 
and hygiene being in anatomy and less than 7 per cent on healthful 
living." 

During the conference the importance of breast feeding in reducing 
infant mortality, the urgent need of uniform state laws for compelling 
birth registration, the necessary courses of instruction for all ages 
and both sexes, were all dwelt on in the most convincing manner. 

Among the most encouraging reports of a new activity in the teach- 
ing of hygiene were those made at the session for education in which 
Home Economics played a large part. This section was in charge 
of Dr. Helen C. Putnam, and addresses were made by women whose 
names are very familiar to our readers, as Prof. Abby L. Marlatt of 
the University of Wisconsin and Prof. Flora Rose of Cornell Univer- 
sity. 

The aims of the new association are of special interest to the readers 
of this Journal. To keep alive the babies, and to rear them to 
effective citizenship — is not this one of the chief ends for which the 
home exists? 

With this number ends the second volume of The Journal of 
Home Economics. Being a baby has recently been classed among 
the extra hazardous occupations, and the friends 
The Association of this new movement may be devoutly thankful 
and The Journal, that the various diseases that lie in wait for in- 
fancy have not carried of! this promising offspring 
of our Association. Its heredity being of the best, its constitution 
has proved vigorous, and means for its development have been gen- 
erously furnished by its sponsors. Those of us appointed to watch 



19 lo] Editorials 687 

over it have received some useful training at the expense of the 
Association and the account of our stewardship will be presented at 
the annual meeting, but to that larger audience which is made up of 
the readers of the Journal we wish to present the following state- 
ments. 

The correspondence that has come in from our widely scattered 
members has shown that the idea of the Association has taken firm 
root. It has become a name to conjure with; it stands for a union 
of like-minded people joined together to further the interests and raise 
the standards of the home, and they have found themselves able 
to do together what is impossible to the individual. 

To foster this spirit of loyalty to the Association has been our main 
object. To this end we have placed the emphasis not on subscriptions 
to the Journal but on membership in the Association, the Journal 
being one of the privileges of membership, for we have felt sure that 
a firmly knit association devoted to noble ends would be of untold 
good to its members and to the community. 

We hope that this loyalty to the Association will be unaffected by 
the slight changes in its relation to the Journal which are now made 
necessary by regulations recently put in force by the Post-Office Depart- 
ment, among which is the requirement that the subscription list to a 
periodical which carries advertisements must be separate and distinct 
from the membership of an Association. 

A full account of this new arrangement was set forth in the extra 
slip bound in with the November issue, and subscriptions to the Journal 
for 191 1 were asked for in accordance with the prescribed form. This 
appeal has met with a generons response but we find it necessary to 
reprint it with this issue that it may meet the eye of any who failed 
to see it before. 

The price of membership has been placed at a nominal figure, 25 
cents, with the view of putting no hindrance in the way of building 
up a large organization. If the 1500 members now on our lists 
all pay this fee the sum realized will defray the expenses of the 
annual meeting, printing of necessary notices, etc. To increase our 
membership and to bring new subscribers to the Journal should be 
a work dear to the heart of every one of us. 

Please note that the Journal cannot be mailed to anyone who is 
in arrears for subscription. Note also that the priceof single copies 
has been raised to fifty cents. 



NOTICES. 

Members will please note that the title page and index for Volume II, 

1910, are added to this number. Also that the 

Title Page title page for Volume 1, 1909, has now been printed 

and Index. separately and will be mailed to all who request 

it for binding. 

The editors repeat their request for Nos. I and II of Volume I 
and No. I of Volume II. Forty cents will be 
Back Numbers, paid for each number in cash or in credit on 
subscription. 

In ordering reprints members will please consult the cover page of 

T^ . . the latest issue, as changes and additions are fre- 

Reprints. ., j 

quently made. 

The convention of the American Home Economics Association 
will be held in Teachers College, St. Louis, 

Convention and December 27-30. The annual meeting will be 

Annual Meeting, on Thursday, December 29, at 1.30 p.m. The 
provisonal program has been sent to all members 

and the final program, which will be printed just before the Convention 

meets, will be sent to all requesting it. 



November 30, 19 10. 



Benjamin R. Andrews, Secretary, 

525 West 1 20th St., New York City. 



688 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The department of household science reports an increased enrollment. In Miss 
Bevier's course on The House, alone, there are ii8 students, representing eleven 
states. 

The 1910 high school conference was held at the university November i7-i9th, 
with the following topics: What can the course in elementary science do for the 
domestic science teacher? Possibilities in chemistry being discussed 
University of by A. C. Norris, of the Rockford High School, and those in physi- 
Illinois. ology and bacteriology by Mr. Bonnell, of the Harrisburg High 

School; household science as related to other work in the univer- 
sity, by Professor HoUister, high school visitor of the university; examples of art 
needed in the teaching of clothing and the home, by G. A. Eggers, Chicago 
Normal School; under the general subject of clothing, what to teach the high school 
girl and when to teach it. by Miss Peterson, Peoria High School; how to teach it, 
by Mrs. Helen Brooks, Illinois Normal University; and clothing and hygiene by 
Mildred Wiegley, DeKalb High School; and practical lessons to improve the sani- 
tary artistic and economic conditions of the homes, the sanitar>' aspects being con- 
sidered by Miss Edith Hall, DeKalb Normal School, the artistic side by Miss 
Melissa Wilson, New Trier High School, Kenilworth, and the economic phases by 
Miss Margaret Culberston of Hinsdale. 

The conference grows in interest and importance each year. The fruit of the work 
of the high school assistant is seen in the rapid increase of the number of schools 
offering household science, there now being 71 as against 21 three years since. The 
committee in charge of the syllabus for the high school work, which serves to unify 
and in a measure standardize this instruction, has completed a revision of the sylla- 
bus which was discussed at the meeting. 

In connection with the college of agriculture the household science department is 
estabHshing movable schools, in which two representatives of the department work 
for a week, giving demonstrations and lectures on food, clothing and the home. 

Some further results of Dr. Goldthwaite's research work on jelly appeared in 
the November number of the Journal of Engineering and Industrial Chemistry. 
The department is also publishing a series of five bulletins by which the results 
of investigations of the department will be made available to the housekeepers 
of the state. 

The school of household arts opened for the academic year with a much larger 
registration than that of the preceding year. Last year there were approximately, 
260 college students in the school, candidates for diplomas and 
The School degrees, 77 taking domestic art; domestic science, 152; hospital 
of Household economics, 17; household administration, 15, and house decoration, 
Arts, I. On October 5, 1910, there were already registered some 335 

Teachers students, divided as follows: Domestic art, 59; domestic science, 

College. 223; nursing and health, 25; household administration and dietetics, 

17; and house decoration, 11. The registration has subsequently 
increased in all the divisions. 

689 



690 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

In addition to the regular students registered in the school last year, there 
were in the "special classes" in household arts some 400 students who came for one 
or more days a week for the practical classes in cooking, design decoration and man- 
agement. The special class registration for the current year is not yet complete but 
there is the prospect of increased registration in these classes as well as in the regu- 
lar college work. 

An interesting factor this year is the registration of a group of high school gradu- 
ates for the applied arts diploma. The group already numbers some 25. Though 
classified along with the non-matriculated students of the college they form an impor- 
tant group, since they are planning for a definite two-year curriculum of study, at 
the end of which many of them will doubtless transfer into the curricula leading to 
the professional diplomas in teaching, administration, and decoration. 

The experiment of a Journal Club is being tried this year. The plan is to have 
a student organization, the members of which bring in abstracts of magazine articles 
and reviews of new books. The club meets once a month and promises to be of 
help to the students. Occasional lectures are to be a feature. 

Another series of meetings which has been found useful is the monthly lecture by 
visiting speakers upon opportunities for work in t'"e newer branches of household 
arts work. Addresses upon trade schools, journalism, extension work and other 
newer forms of activity were included in last year's series of addresses. Lectures 
are being repeated this year with the additional provision, during the second half- 
year, of a series of informal addresses by members of the faculty upon new subject- 
matter in the field of household arts instruction. In these addresses recent 
progress in nutrition, textiles, decoration and other divisions of the field will be 
presented. 



The number of girls enrolled in the department of Home Economics of the college 
of agriculture of the university is more than double that of last year. Over 100 

young women are taking the four years' and graduate courses. A 
University of large number of students in the college of letters and science, candi- 
Wisconsin. dates for the bachelor of arts degree, have also elected the general 

survey of Home Economics and the art and design studies, open 
to students in that college. In the latter subject one class includes over 100 young 
women. Most of those who have entered this year have had good preparatic 
and are in position to receive the maximum benefits from the instruction. 



Miss Edna Miller, of Montrose, Pa., a 1910 graduate in domestic science at Pratt 
Institute, has been made director of domestic science and arts of the Y. W.C.A. of 

Scranton. Miss Miller is holding a cooking class every night, and 
Scranton, Pa. on one afternoon in the week a sewing class for children which she 
Y. W. C. A. conducts in a novel way. From 3-4 p.m. she teaches a class of 

volunteer teachers and from 4-5 p.m. these teachers teach the 
children under her direction. The first day 65 children appeared, and it is hoped 
to have 100. 



^9io] News from the Field 691 

kn'^^P f .°\'°^''''°' ''*''' ^° ^'^"'''' "^^ ^^^^^^^ body of the Battersea (Eng- 
land) Polytechnic is arranging for considerable development in the work of the domet 

Baft.rc«« T .^'°°T^ department. An entirely new third-year course will 

17^ l\ '"Produced, .vhich is expected to carry forward greatly the 

^n^tu^ -PPl'cation of science to housecraft. It will consist, in the main, of 
institute. much more elaborate work both on the theoretical and practical 

«nH W I c ' , '"^ ^^^ '"^^"^^*' °^ physiology, hygiene, chemistry, physics, 

and biology Special attention is to be given to the scientific side of the processe 
which underlie the arts of cookery, laundrywork, and housewifery. It is al^ n 
tt vlr-o rf ^"'^^'^" ^^^"' ^^'"^ °^ '""^^ ^-^ - P-^'-I --ch wo k upon 

tiofs't"^-' ^r'^"' ""'^°' "^ '^' ^'^"^^""^'^ ^^"dy of the American institu- 
tions teaching domestic science which appeared in special reports of the English 

Miss S"^'"'^ °^ Education some years ago, and known as the leader of the 

RavenhiU in 7°^"^.E^7°°^f movement in England, is retiring from active 
Amerka 'i^"^^*'^.^^^ """^'^ ^"d will make her home for the future in British 

Columbia. Miss Ravenhill's many American friends will be glad 
to have her new address: Chrachveattle, Shawnigan Lake P O 
Vancouver Island, B. C, Canada. ' . ^- ^m 

This branch was organized in Boston, in December, 1909, but will hold its first 
meeting Dec. 28, in connection with the state teachers' association at Rochester 
W»«, V ,, ^ ^^T^^ attended meeting is hoped for. There is a membership 
St!I p u '' f,^^^^"ty-fi^'^ ^^"ts, of which fifteen cents may be retained by 
btate Branch local branches for their work. Such a branch was formed at Rochea- 
or tne ter last June, with local officers, and branches may be formed in 

Association, other parts of the state, with the cooperation of the state officers 
if desired. 

The first annual meeting took place at Dayton, November II. The program 
mcluded an address by President W. 0. Thompson of Ohio State University on 
The Place of Domestic Science in Secondary and College Education; 
Ohio Chapter ^ '"ncheon at the Stivers Manual Training High School, and a 
of the ^°""d table led by Miss Rachel Hartshorn Colwell. Among the 

Association. *^^ ^^P'^^ discussed were The Use of Drafting in High Schools 
by Miss Lana Bishop, Technical High School, Cleveland- the 
,^. u- u c u .^^^^^^^'^ °^ Domestic Art in the Elementary Schools to that in 
the High School; and Plans for School Kitchens and Materials for Tops of Tables 

I^m" ttm •''. ^''^'"' ^'''^''''' ^''''''' Department, Ohio State University! 
and Miss Uhlnck, Supervisor of Household Arts, Cincinnati. 

The Wisconsin branch was formed at Milwaukee, Wis., at the meeting of the Wis- 
consin State Teachers' Association last year, with Miss Emma Conley School of 
Wisconsin f^^"<=^^'i"''^' Wausau. Chairman, and Miss Abby L. Marlatt of the 
Wisconsin Umversity of Wisconsin, Mrs. Bertha Johnston, director of domes- 
Association '' • ^"^'^^f ' 0^^^°^^' -°d Miss A. Bischoff, director of domestic 
Association, science, Ashland, as members of the executive committee. 

The first annual meeting was held at Milwaukee, Nov., 5 1910, 



692 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

in conjunction with the domestic science section of the state teachers' association. 
Miss Mary S. Snow, director of household arts, Chicago, gave a paper on the Train- 
ing of Girls for Efficiency. Miss Marlatt led a round table discussion on the aim 
and purpose of the branch association. 

In several large cities women's clubs are arranging for courses of popular lectures 
on Home Economics subjects. Much of this interest has been aroused during the 

past two years by the efficient work of Mrs. Olaf B. Guldlin, of 
Home Fort Wayne, Indiana, the chairman of the Home Economics Corn- 

Economics in mittee of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. It has proved 
Women's a wise policy to hold her in that office for a second term instead 

Clubs. of starting with a wholly new committee as has been the plan 

heretofore. The new committee in full consists of Mrs Guldlin, 
chairman; Miss Mary F. Rausch, State Agr. College, Fort Collins, Col., vice-chair- 
man. Miss Caroline L. Hunt, Madison, Wis.; Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Agr. 
College, Ithaca, New York; Miss Anna Barrows, Teachers College, New York 
City; Mrs. Chas. P. Weaver, Louisville, Ky.;Mrs. Cree T. Work, Denton, Texas; 
Mrs. H. M. Pancoast, Palmyra, N. J.; Mrs. C. R. Wyatt, Huntington, W. Va.; and 
Mrs. Ray Ruchton, Montgomery, Ala. 

Home Economics had an important place in the program of the recent Indiana 
State Federation meeting. Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith, who has been for so long 
identified with the work, presided at this session. The Field and Its Possibilities 
was very enthusiastically presented by Mrs. Guldlin, and a plea for a closer relation 
between the work in the home and Home Economics in the school was made by Miss 
Isabel Bevier of the University of Illinois, under the title Home Economics and The 
Home. 

There is an increasing demand for simple practical talks and demonstration lec- 
tures on household topics before farmers' institutes. North Dakota, Iowa and 
West Virginia are arranging for special work of this type, and 
Home several other states will send household economics workers with 

Economics in their agricultural trains. Miss Abby L. Marlatt is arranging a 
Farmers' full program for the short course in Home Economics at the Uni- 

Institutes, varsity of Wisconsin. 

etc. The New England Corn Exposition, held at Worcester, Mass., 

November 7th-i2th, recognized its connection with Home Econo- 
mics by introducing several lectures on Corn as Human Food. 

The Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences in its prospectus for 1910-1911 
announces two courses of lectures on domestic science on the following topics: 
November 10, All Sorts and Conditions of Kitchens; November 17, The Grocery 
Bill; December i, Food for a Day; December 8, Food for the Growing Child; 
December 15, Dinner; December 22, Milk and Eggs; January 6, The Fireless Cooker 
and its Use; January 13, How to Use the Casserole; January 20, Electrical Cooking 
Devices; January 27, Milk, Butter and Cheese; and February 3, Modern Labor- 
Saving Devices. All of these lectures are to be illustrated by cookery or with lan- 
tern slides. 



iQio] News from the Field 693 

The third annual conference of the Philadelphia League of Home and School 
Associations occurred October 27-29, 1910, the sessions being held at the office of 

the superintendent of schools, the William Penn High School, and 
Philadelphia the New Century Club. 

League of At the afternoon session on October 28 the topics discussed 

Home and were: What the City Owes the Child, What the Citizen Owes the 
School Child, and What the Child Owes the City, the speakers being Hon. 

Associations. John E. Reyburn, Mayor of Philadelphia, Miss Marion Reilly, 

Dean of Bryn Mawr College, and Rabbi Joseph Krauskopf, Presi- 
dent Patriotic Society of Philadelphia. The subject under consideration at the 
morning session, October 29, was Home, School, and the Budget, the speakers 
being Miss Pattie S. Hill, Teachers College, as to the home; Superintendent John 
W. Carr, of Bayonne, N. J., and Hon. O. T. Carson, of Columbus, Ohio, as to the 
school; Mrs. Louise Stevens Bryant, Russell Sage Foundation, New York City, 
as to luncheons, and Dr. William H. Allen, Bureau of Municipal Research, New 
York City, as to the city's budget. At the afternoon session reports of the associa- 
tion were presented, and also a report by Mrs. J. Scott Anderson, delegate from the 
Home and School League, on the International Congress of Home Education held 
at Brussels, Belgium, August, 1910. 

It is interesting to note in this connection that the school luncheon work under 
Miss Emma Smedley's supervision is being very rapidly extended in the city. 



The interests of German housewifery are about to be furthered by a German 
Household Association, organized on a basis similar to that of the German Agricul- 
tural Society. This association purposes to include within the scope 
A German of its activities all matters relating to domestic economy, not only 
Household the hygienic and technical phases, but the educational, national, 
Association, and ethical aspects of the subject. As announced in the prospec- 
tus, some special matters for consideration are as follows: Schools 
for mistresses, maids, cooks and housekeepers; instruction in cookery and housewifery 
in boarding schools, high schools, training schools, etc.; training courses for 
domestic science teachers; instruction in housewifery in the home; Home Economics 
conferences; household accounts — the relation of income to expenditure, etc.; and 
experiment stations for the testing of household supplies, implements and machines. 
Various means to be employed by the association to further its aims include the 
establishment of a correspondence department, composed of competent judges and 
experts, to which all pertinent questions may be referred; a publication department, 
for the publication of a household year book, and the maintenance of housewifery 
departments in newspapers and magazines; the establishment of depots for the test- 
ing of household supplies in the interests of pure food, and of household implements, 
to promote domestic efficiency through a knowledge of labor-saving machinery; 
and the exhibition in international expositions, museums, schools and elsewhere, 
of approved machinery in operation, tested household necessities, and all other 
phases of housewifery which may be of educational value. — Ellen Beers, 
Teachers College 



694 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

This exhibit, which has been postponed till January, 191 1, is being organized in a 
very comprehensive way. Committees have been appointed on homes, streets, 
schools, recreation and amusement, printed matter, industry, relig- 
Child ious influences, settlement associations, public and private charities, 

Welfare and laws and administration. These committees will have in mind 

Exhibit in the effect of the respective forces on the health of the child, his 
New York mental development, his vocational adjustment, his recreational 
City. life, civic responsibilities, domestic and parental efficiency, charac- 

ter, and spiritual development. The exhibit will be made as graphic 
as possible by actual models, photographs, pictures, pictoral diagrams, cartoons, 
epigrams, etc., in addition to statistical tables, diagrams, charts and maps. 

Readers of the journal will be especially interested in the plans of the 
committee on homes. Under the general head of housing and home life, there 
will be arranged an investigation and exhibit of about seven representative blocks, 
typical of differences in congestion of population, economic status, social condition 
and nationality. There will also be a constructive and contributory exhibit of models 
illustrating urban and rural possibilities in housing, models as to house furnishings, 
clothing for children, toys, sanitation, infant mortalicy,and the food and feeding of 
children. Under this last heading there will be presented typical menus, suggestions 
as to dietaries, comparative food values, school children's luncheons, the milk supply 
and the care of milk in the home, the ice supply in relation to the small consumer, 
and the inspection of bakeries, water tanks, drinking fountains, candy manufacture, 
soda fountains, and push-cart lunches and candies. There is also a section on home 
training, which includes a survey of present opportunities in New York City in 
public and private schools, settlements, societies, vocational schools, etc., the 
courses offered in cooking, needlecraft, bacteriology, biology, hygiene, household 
management, household art, child study and training, family and social life, etc., 
and suggestions for additional work along these hnes. 

In conjunction with the exhibit, the Home Economics Association of Greater 
New York will hold a meeting at which Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel, of the Sheffield 
Scientific School, will give an address on some phases of nutrition during growth. 

A conference on the School Lunch Problem was held in Boston, Saturday, 

December 3, 1910. Among the speakers were Mrs. Ellen H. 

School Lunch Richards, Miss Caroline L. Hunt, Dr. Thomas F. Harrington, 

Problems. Dr. George S. C. Badger, Mr. Robert A. Woods and Miss Sarah 

Louise .Arnold. 



Honor 

for Mrs. 
Richards. 



At the celebration of the 2Sth anniversary of the founding of 
Smith College, Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, president of the American 
Home Economics Association, was honored with the degree of 
Bachelor of Science. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Household Foes for Boys and Girls. Alice Ravenhill. (With a hundred illus- 
strations by Agnes M. Kelley.) Sidgwick and Jackson, London, 1910. 359 
pages. 

This book by the leader of the Home Economics movement in England is in- 
tended "to arouse the interest of young people in the practice of daily domestic 
cleanliness and to furnish them with reasons, adapted to the comprehension of boys 
and girls, for the demands thus made upon their perseverance and energy." The 
book is written in the form of a story of the experiences of two children, who, with 
their mother, visit a dilapidated house and institute measures to set it in order. 
It endeavors to bring home the lessons of sanitation and cleanness upon a level of 
explanation intelligible to boys and girls. In each chapter there are references to 
literature. Miss Ravenhill's Practical Hygiene in particular, and other books as well. 

An elementary school supervisor has examined the book and reports that like 
most works of this sort which attempt to be didactic the style is not entertaining, and 
that the children seem to know more of science than could be expected of the Ameri- 
can child, at least. One would like to see the book tried out in a school room, how- 
ever, before accepting the fairness of this criticism. The information which the book 
gives, the stimulus which it would afford to the forming of good habits, cannot be 
gainsaid. The illustrations are many of them wonderfully suited to their purpose and 
probably upon children would leave even a more lasting impression than the text. 

A word should be said as to the tjTpe of book which this volume represents. It 
might well be considered a "supplementary reader," as the term is used in American 
schools. There is a great need to-day for suitable reading books on Home Economics 
for the use of young people. We are not sure but that Miss Ravenhill's Household 
Foes could be used with great advantage in American schools despite its constant 
references to English conditions. We hope it may inspire similar American books. 
— B. R. Andrews. 

The Health of the City. Hollis Godfrey. Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston, 
1910. Pp. 371. Price $1.25. 
This is a popular and very interesting presentation of the problems of public 
sanitation. The chapters are devoted to the following: Air, the milk supply, the 
city's food, the food of the individual, city water and city waste, ice, sewer gas and 
plumbing, the city's noise, city housing abroad, and city housing in America. There 
follows a selected bibliography. The material presented in this volume first 
appeared in abbreviated form in the Atlantic Monthly, where it found many inter- 
ested readers. 



69s 



696 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The Woman who Spends. Bertha J. Richardson. Whitcomb and Barrows, Bos- 
ton. Pp. 161. $1.00 net. 
This second edition of The Woman Who Spends is not a reprinting but a revision, 
and it is receiving a cordial welcome, we are told by the publishers, as a general 
statement of the economic function of woman as a house manager. The new 
edition contains a chapter on household accounts. This is a general statement 
of their importance and makes the new point that household accounts are worth 
while even if they are not absolutely correct, since, if they cover three-quarters 
or five-sixths of the whole expenditure they furnish something of a guide in house- 
hold expenditure. 

Choosing a Vocation. Frank Parsons. Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston, 1909. 
Pp. 165. $1.00. 
The choice of a vocation is related to Home Economics, since the home is often 
the deciding influence in the choice of a trade or calling, and since the profession 
chosen is so closely related to the later income of the individual upon which the stabil- 
ity and success of the family often depend. Here, now, is the first attempt to place 
choice of vocation upon a solid basis of thorough self examination by the individual, 
complete classified knowledge of the facts of different vocations, and expert assist- 
ance from trained vocation counselors. The author was the founder of the recently 
established Vocation Bureau in Boston, and also developed a professional method 
of work for the vocation counselor (which this book presents), and established a 
School for Vocation Counselors in Boston. This movement to aid young people in 
choosing a trade or calling is getting a foothold in the public schools, as in the Voca- 
tion Bureau of the New York City schools. See, also, an article on Vocation Teach- 
ing by W. T. Miller, in the Atlantic Monthly for November, iqgq (pp. 644-6). 

Industrial History of the United States. Katherine Coman. Macmillan Com- 
pany, 19 10. Pp.461. $1.60. 

This is a new edition of this standard work by the professor of economics and soci- 
ology in Wellesley College. It will be of interest in all college departments of Home 
Economics as a standard textbook and reference work. To those who do not already 
know, it may be interesting to state that the general scheme of the book includes 
treatment of the following topics: The land and the people, the business aspects of 
colonization, industrial development under British control, industrial aspects of the 
revolution, national beginnings, industrial consequences of the War of 181 2, the 
epoch of expansion and the crisis of 1837, territorial expansion and the revenue 
tariffs, the Civil War — economic causes and results, contemporary problems, and 
conservation. 

The book contains 77 illustrations, including half-tones and maps. 

Progress in Agricultural Education Extension. John Hamilton. U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, Office of E,xperimcnt Stations, Circular 98, pp. 12. 
This report by Professor Hamilton, the Farmers' Institute specialist of the Office 
of Experiment Stations, will be found of a great deal of value to all interested in 
collegiate departments of Home Economics. The agricultural colleges have already 
done considerable work in Home Economics, references to which are made in this 
pamphlet, but it will be especially helpful in its statement of extension work in 



iQio] Books and Literature 697 

agriculture. It is evident that useful extension work in Home Economics must 
follow along much the same lines. 

National Education Association. Report of the Committee on The Place of 
Industries in Public Education to the National Council of Education, July, 
1910. Published by the Association, IQIO. Pp.123. 
This is the latest summary of the vocational education situation. It includes the 

reportof sub-committees on industries in the elementary schools, intermediate 

schools, industrial and technical education in the secondary school and a selected 

bibliography on industrical education. 

Annual Report of the Inspector of Technical Education, 1909. Printed by 
the Order of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario. Toronto, 1910. 
This report, drawn up by Mr. Leake, is very rich in illustrations, both of industrial 
arts and of household arts. It will be of interest to classes in methods of teaching 
the household arts. 

Bibliography of Household Arts. 

\ bibliography of selected reference books in the field of household arts is to be 
published by the School of Household Arts, Teachers College, about the first of 
December. It will be made available for general use at a small price covering the 
cost of printing. This is in line with the policy of the school to print a series of 
small pamphlets to include subject-matter which needs to be made available for 
the use of students. The first publication of this sort was Dr. Devine's paper. 
The Economic Function of Woman, which was reprinted in October, and which is 
available for use in other institutions at ten cents a copy, with a discount in 
quantities. 

"Euthenics." The Science of Controllable Environment. A Plea for Better 

Living Conditions as a First Step Toward Higher Human Efficiency. Ellen H. 
Richards. Whitcomb and Barrows, Boston, 1910. 162 pages. 

This, the latest of Mrs. Richards' books, presents a philosophy of the Home 
Economics movement. Many members of our Association will recall that "Euthen- 
ics" is a term born of the meedngs at Lake Placid. "Eugenics deals with race 
improvement through heredity." "Euthenics deals with race improvement through 
environment." ' 'Euthenics is hygiene for the present generation." 

For many years, Mrs. Richards has been one of the leaders in American work in 
hygiene in the field, especially, of safeguarding water supplies and establishing 
pure food standards. A volume is just coming from the press which brings to a 
focus her purely scientific work in these fields of chemical research and instruction. 
Along with her work as a chemist, however, has gone her interest in the improve- 
ment of the American home. One recalls her long list of books, among others, 
"The Art of Right Living," "The Cost of Living," "The Cost of Food," "The 
Cost of Shelter," "The Cost of Cleanness." Now comes this volume on " Euthen- 
ics" which relates in a definite way the activities known to us as "Home Econom- 
ics," to the general movement for the conservation of life and health, and to the 
scientific movement of the last quarter-century which has endeavored to bring all 
the resources of science to bear for the betterment of human life. 



698 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

"Euthenics" gives a simple, intelligible view of all these related movements. 
They all mean a better control of environment for the purpose of increasing human 
efficiency. In this controlled environment the work of the housewife looms large. 

Given as a table in the appendix we find the schedule of agencies contributing to 
a better common life. Its grouping shows a statesman Uke vision, and the reader 
is impressed with the fact that however slowly this outline may be filled out with 
effective work by the pubhc, such cooperation will be largely the result of the fore- 
sight and labors of such leaders as Mrs. Richards. 

B. R. Andrews. 

Proceedings of the Third International Congress for Home Education. 

These proceedings comprise eight volumes in which the greatest specialists in peda- 
gogy discuss the study of childhood, the education of children before, during, 
and after their school years, the education of abnormal children, and the various 
subjects relating to childhood. The exchange of opinions which was evoked at 
the Congress by the papers presented will be pubUshed in a separate volume, the 
ninth in the series which appear shortly. The ninth volume will be sent to all per- 
sons registered with the Secretary General of the Congress, L. Pien, 44 Rue 
Rubens, Brussels, Belgium, before January i, 191 1. Such persons will be con- 
sidered members of the Congress and will receive the nine volumes upon payment 
of the dues, 10 francs ($2). After that date these pubhcations will be found 
only in the hands of booksellers at a price considerably higher. 

These nine volumes contain more than 300 articles. A certain number of papers 
— in the neighborhood of 100 — were not received by the Bureau in time for pub- 
lication. The members of the Congress will find these reviewed in the Revue de 
VEducation faniiliale, of which sam^ple copies may be obtaiiied free of charge by 
applying to the Secretary General as mentioned above. 

Probably the Fourth International Congress for Home Education will be held 
in the United States. A commission has been appointed to take the matter 
under consideration. Professor Monroe of the State Normal School, Montclair, 
N. J., was appointed Secretary of this commission. 



INDEX TO VOLUME 1 1. 



1910 



Accounting for Institutions, W. M. 
Cole, 572 

Acetylene Gas as a Fuel for Domestic 
Science Kitchen, J. Hamilton, 654 

Administration of College Dormitory, 
M. L. Chamberlain, 487 

Administrative Work, General Prob- 
lems in, A. Nutting, 477 

American Home Economics Associa- 
tion: Address List of Members, 
113; Boston Convention, 3; Boston 
Meeting of Education Section, 349; 
Preliminary Program of July Meet- 
ing, 332; Summer Meetings of, 233; 
Preliminary Program of St. Louis 
Meeting, 589 

Architecture in its Relation to Insti- 
tution Administration, H. W. Wil- 
kinson, 561 

Arnold, Sarah L., Instruction in Insti- 
tutional Management, 480; Model 
for a Branch Association of Home 
Economics, 321 

Bacteriology, Courses in, for Home 
Economics, H. W. Conn, 627; 
Teaching to Mothers, H. W. Hill, 

635 

Bai-DERSTon, L. Ray, Courses of 
Instruction in Laundry- Manage- 
ment, 538 

Bennett, Annie L., Lessons in Dress- 
making, 361 

Benson, C. C. et al., A Day's Metabol- 
ism, 658 

Biological Chemistry, Relation to Home 
Economics, W. J. Gies, 619 

Book Reviews : American National Red 
Cross Text Book on First Aid and 
Relief Columns, Lynch, 238; 



Annual Report of the Inspector of 
Technical Education, 1909, 697; 
Antiputrescent Effects of Copper, 
Springer and Springer, 238; Antique 
Chinese Rugs, no; Apparatus for 
Determining the Conductivities of 
Insulating Materials, Bost, 240; 
Baby, a Book for Mothers and 
Nurses, Brown, 237; Bibliography 
of Household Arts, 697; Canadian 
Government Annuities, Bastedo, 
347; Chautauqua Genealogy, 112; 
Chemistry and Pharmacology- of 
Insect Powder, Fujitani, 240; 
Choosing a Vocation, Parsons, 696; 
City Bakeries, Aronovice, 452; 
Cleaning and Renovating at Home, 
Osman, 453; Composition of Figs, 
Paladino, 451; Concerning the Dis- 
infecting Action of Ordinary Tooth 
and Mouth Washes on Pathogenic 
Bacteria, Bassenge, 238; Daily 
Menus for a Year at the Institute 
for Colored Youth, Chejmey, Pa., 
238; Domestic Art Review, 112; 
Dorothy Brooke's School Days, 
Sparhawk, 346; Dust Nuisance and 
Ways of Lessening it, Layriz, 345; 
Educational Value of Photography 
in Public Schools, Maisch, in; 
Education of Women, Talbot, 449; 
Elementary Domestic Science, Food 
and Cookery, Landes, 345; Euthen- 
ics, Richards, 347, 697; Feeding the 
School Children, van Ruypen, 452; 
Fireless Cook Book, Mitchell, no; 
Frauenwirtschaft, 450; Free Publi- 
cations of Department of Agriciil- 
ture Classified for the Use of Teach- 
ers, Crosby and Home, 450; Handy 

699 



700 



The Journal of Home Economics 



Expense Card for Housekeepers, 
Kirk, 112; Health of the City, God- 
frey, 69s; House Decoration, Priest- 
man, 346, 454; Household Arts Re- 
view, 347; Household Foes for Boys 
and Girls,RavenhilI,695 ;Housekeep- 
ing for Two, James, 345; Housing 
Conditions of Hotel Employees in 
Hotels in Hamburg, 453; How 
Shall the Little Ones Sew, Johnson, 
453; How to Choose and Cook the 
Cheaper Cuts of Beef, Barrows, 45 1 ; 
How to Feed Children, a Manual 
for Mothers, Nurses and Physi- 
cians, Hogan, 237; How to Help, 
McMillan, 238; Hygienic Signific- 
ance of Sulphur in Gas, Gallagher, 
346; Important Points in Wrapping 
Paper Designed for Use in Connec- 
tion with Foodstuffs, Kuhl, 452; 
Industrial History of the United 
States, Coman, 696; Infant Depots 
in Sheffield, Naish, 237; Influence 
of Muscular and Mental Work on 
Metabolism and the Efficiency of 
the Human Body as a Machine, 
Benedict and Carpenter, 346; 
Laboratory Notes in Household 
Chemistry for Students of Domes- 
tic Science, Vulte and Goodell, 450; 
Leftover Foods and How to Use 
Them, Hiller, 452; Making of a 
Trade School, Woolman, 449; On 
the Method of the Italian Customs 
Service for the Determination of 
Sizing in Cotton, Tagliani, 240; 
Misery and its Causes, Devine, 109; 
National Congress of Mothers Mag- 
azine, 450; National Education 
Association, 697; Newer Methods 
of House Disinfection, Sobernheim, 
345 ; Nightwork in Bakeries, Losser, 
453; Outbreak of Poisoning by 
Arsenical Sweets, Hutchinson, 451; 
Practical Dr>' Cleaner, Scourer and 
Garment Dyer, Braunt, 240; Pre- 
serve Labels, Cheney and Carmich- 
ael, 345; Pressing with a Hot Iron 



as a Prophylactic Measure in Infec- 
tious Diseases, Svehla, 238; Pro- 
ceedings of Third International 
Congress for Home Education, 698; 
Progress in Agricultural Education 
Extension, Hamilton, 696; Quar- 
terly and Yearly Averages of Prices 
of Provisions during 1908, 452 ; Rate 
of Wages and Cost of Living in 
Yarmouth, 452; Regulating Night 
Work in Swiss Bakeries by Legisla- 
tive Enactment, Platzhoff, 453; 
Removal of Odors through Ventila- 
tion, Kisskalt, 453; Revised Sylla- 
bus for Elementary and Secondary 
Schools, Board of Regents, New 
York, 449; Scientific Living or the 
Nev Domestic Science, Brown, 
239; Spirit of Youth and the City 
Streets, Addams, 109; Town Plan- 
ning and Modern Architecture at 
the Hampstead Garden Suburb, 
Unwin and Scott, 346; Ventilation 
for Dwellings, Rural Schools and 
Stables, King, 240; Wages and Cost 
of Living in Great Britain, Stud- 
niczka, 452; Why American Mar- 
riages Fail, Rogers, 237; Woman 
who Spends, Richardson, 696 

BouGHTON, Alice C, Report of the 
Penny Lunches Served by the 
Starr Centre Association, 178 

Bread, On the Relation of Yeast to Fla- 
vor in, R. A. Wardall, 75 

Brooks, Ethel F., Lesson in House 
Construction for the Elementar>- 
Grades, 673 

Bryant, Louise S., School Feeding in 
Europe, 149 

Cement, the Application of, in Residence 
Construction, J. M. White, 678 

Chamberlain, Marion L., Ideals in the 
Adminsitration of the College Dor- 
mitory, 487 

Chambers, Mary D., Methods and 
Devices in Home Economics as used 
in Rockford College, 594 



Index to Volume II 



701 



Chemistry for Students of Home Eco- 
nomics, J. F. Norris, 397 

Children, Feeding of, Contribution to 
Bibliography, 187 

Cole, William M., Accounting for 
Institutions, 572 

CoLWELL, Rachel H., The loo-Calorie 
Portion as a Convenient Means for 
Calculating the Food Value of a 
Given Diet, 613 

Commons, John R., Standardizing the 
Home, 23 

CoNDiT, Elizabeth C, Teaching of Home 
Economics as a Profession, 591 

Conn, H. W., Courses in Bacteriology 
for Home Economics, 627 

Cookery, a Lesson in, for the Elementary 
School, Norton and Rich, 601 

CooLEY, A. M., Domestic Art as Dis- 
cussed at the Recent Meeting of 
Household Arts Section of National 
Education Association, 354 

CoRBETT, Florence R., Essentials in 
the Training of the Dietitian, 499 

Daniell, Maria, 73 

Denton, Minna C, Pasteurization of 
City Milk Supplies, 279 

Departments of Agriculture, Courses in 
Home Economics as Related to, J. 
L. Shepperd, 403 

Design, Teaching to Trade Classes, G. 
W. Ripley, 366 

Dewey, Annie, Menus and Meal Sys- 
tems, 510 

Dietitian, Essentials in the Training of, 
F. R. Corbett, 499; the Pupil, G. E. 
McCullough, 506 

Dietetics, Popular Education in, W. S. 
Gibbs, 198 

Dining Room Management, C. M. Way, 
521 

Domestic Art, as Discussed at Meeting 
of Household Arts Section of 
National Education Association, 
A. M. Cooley, 354; Its Content and 
PossibiUties, A. K. FUnt, 373; Rela- 
tion of Fine Arts to, E. Stone, 390: 



Relation to Fine Art Teaching, G. 
G. Starbird, 19; Review of Recent 
Investigations Bearing on, C. F. 
Langworthy, 659 

Domestic Science, in Hawaii, A. Hunt, 
641; in the Normal School of 
Hawaii, F. M. Lee, 646; Teaching, 
Economy of Materials in, 189; 
Teaching to Different Nationali- 
ties, M. E. Williams and A. Cohen, 
271 

Dormitory, Administration of, M. L. 
Chamberlain, 487; Life for College 
Women, M. Talbot, 490; Qualifica- 
tions of Head of, L. Southard, 496 

Drafting, Suggestions for Teaching in 
First and Second Year in High 
School, R. A. Wihnot, 359 

Dressmaking, Lesson in, A. L. Bennett, 
361 

Economics, College Courses in. Applied 
to the School of Household Eco- 
nomics, S. M. Kingsbury, 248; of 
the Family, G. Stewart, 200 

Editorials: Annual Meeting, 434; Asso- 
ciation and the Journal, 686; Back 
Numbers Wanted, 326, 433, 688; 
Bacteria Scare, 97; Branch Associ- 
ation Meetings, 323; Conference on 
Household Administration, 323; 
Correction, 99; Convention and 
Annual Meeting, 688; December 
Number Free, 434; Domestic Art, 
325; Future of the Association, 432; 
Household Pests, 476; Index, 433; 
Institution Government, 476; In- 
stitution as an Outside Helper, 
472; Institution Problems and the 
Household, 471; Journal's New 
Address, 235 ; Meeting of the Amer- 
ican Association for Study and 
Prevention of InfantMortaUty, 685 ; 
Methods of Teaching Home Eco- 
nomics, 324; Reprints, 688; School 
Lunch, 234; Second Annual Meet- 
ing, 96; Standardization of House- 
work, 475; Study of Finance, 475; 



702 



The Journal of Home Economics 



Summer Dairy School, 326; Sum- 
mer Meetings, 433 ; Title Page and 
Index, 688; To Those who have 
not Paid Dues, 327; Women's Insti- 
tutes in Ontario, 99 
Elliott, S. Maria, Teaching Methods 
in Housewifety in Secondary 
Schools, 379 

Federation of Women's Clubs, Home 
Economics at, 43 1 

Flint, Anna K., Domestic Art, its Con- 
tent and Possibihties, 373 

Floor Materials, J. C. Saunders, 564 

Gay, Clara S., Teaching of Millinery, 

363 

Gelatin, Note on the Setting of, O. G. 
Patterson and C. C. Benson, 656 

GiBBS, Winifred S., Popular Educa- 
tion in Dietetics, 198 

GiES, William J., Relation of Biologi- 
cal Chemistry to Home Economics, 
619 

CJOLDTHWAITE, N. E., Jelly Making, 92 

Gould, John Stanton, a Pioneer Stu- 
dent of Institution Dietetics in 
America, C. F. Langworthj', 310 

Graduate School of Home Economics, 
Ames, Iowa, 329, 425 

Greene, Flora H., Amount of Edible 
Meat in Various Cuts, 413 

Greer, Carlotta C, How to Apply the 
Laboratory Method to the Study 
of Practical Cooking in the High 
School, 605 

Griscom, Lucy M., Elimination of 
Waste in the Household, 292 

Hamilton, Joan, Acetylene Gas as Fuel 
for the Domestic Science Kitchen, 
654 

Hawaii, Domestic Science in, Agnes 
Hunt, 641; Domestic Science in 
Normal School, F. M. Lee, 646 

High Schools, How to Apply the Labor- 
atory Method of Study to Practi- 
cal Cooking in, C. C. Greer, 605 



Hill, H. W., Teaching Bacteriology to 
Mothers, 635 

Home Economics, and the Outside 
Community, W. D. Hurd, 257; at 
the General Federation of Women's 
Clubs, 431; Chemistry for Students 
of, J. F. Norris, 397; College Courses 
in, A. C. True, 243; Courses in 
Bacteriology for, H. W. Coun, 627; 
Graduate School of, 425; in North 
America, Beginning of Education 
in, 29; Methods and Devices used 
in Rockford College in, M. D. Cham- 
bers, 594; Model for Branch Asso- 
ciation of, S. L. Arnold, 321; Physi- 
ology and Course in, P. G. Stiles, 
393; Relation of Biological Chem- 
istry to, W. J. Gies, 619; Relation 
of Physics to, C. L. Norton, 251; 
Social Work for Students, C. L. 
Hunt, 268; Teaching as a Profes- 
sion, E. C. Condit, 591; Quarterly 
Bibliography of, 344 

Hoodless, Adelaide H., 319 

Hospitals, Linen Standards for, L. 
Powell, 551 

House Construction, a Lesson in, for 
the Elementary Grades, E. F. 
Brooks, 673 

House Course, J. H. Snow, 384 

Household and Institutional Manage- 
ment, Sectional Conference on, 429 

Household Arts, Building at Teachers 
College, Columbia, 306; How to 
Make Effective in the School anu 
Community, E. A. Rich, 377; Prac- 
tical Methods in, E. S. Jacobs, 367 

Household Furnishings and Decoration, 
Teaching of, M. E. WiUiams, 387 

Housewifery, Teaching of Methods in 
Secondary Schools, S. M. Elliott, 
379 

Hundred Calorie Portion, for Calculat- 
ing Food Value of a Given Diet, 
R. H. Colwell, 613; Use in Dietary 
Teaching in High Schools, M. 
Wellman, 615 



Index to Volume II 



703 



Hunt, Agnes, Domestic Science in 

Hawaii, 641 
Hunt, Caroline L., Social Work for 

Students of Home Economics, 268 
HuRD, W. D., Relation between College 

and University Departments of 

Home Economics and the Outside 

Community, 257 
Hygienic Dress and Dress Reform, D. 

S. Sargent, 298 

Institutional Management, Certain Pha- 
ses of Instruction in, S. L. Arnold, 
480; Practice Fields for Students in, 
M. U. Watson, 505; Preparation 
for, Flora Rose, 507 

Ireland, Higher Education in Home 
Economics in, H. L. Knight, 32 

Jacobs, E. S., Practical Methods in a 

Household Arts Lesson, 369 
Jelly Making, N. E. Goldthwaite, 92 

KiNGSBxjRY, Susan M., College Courses 
in Economics Applied to the School 
of Household Economics, 248 

KiTTREDGE, Mabel H., Experiments 
with School Lunches in New York 
City, 174 

Klink, Jane S., Laundry as a Commer- 
cial Enterprise, 549 

Knight, H. L., Higher Education in 
Home Economics in Ireland, 32 

Lage, Katherine, Lunch Room for 
Working Girls, 525 

Lake Placid Conference on Household 
Administration, Program of, 324 

Langworthy, C. F., John Stanton 
Gould, a Pioneer Student of Insti- 
tution Dietetics in America, 310; 
Nutrition Investigations in Rela- 
tion to Dining Room Management, 
529; Progress in Nutrition, 35; 
Review of Recent Investigations 
Bearing on Domestic Art, 659 

Laundry, as a Commercial Enterprise, 
J. S. Klink, 549; Institutional, 
Equipment for, C. D. Noyes, 544; 



Management, Course of Instruc- 
tion in, L. Ray Balderston, 538 

Lee, Florence M., Domestic Science 
in Normal School of Hawaii, 646 

Linen Standards for Hospitals, L. 
Powell, 551 

Lunch Room, for Working Girls, K. 
Lage, 525 

McCuLLOUGH, Grace E., The Pupil 

Dietitian, 506 
Meals, How to Teach Preparation of, 

F. Willard, 609 
Meat, the Amount Edible in Various 

Cuts, F. H. Greene, 413 
Menus and Meal Systems, Annie Dewey, 

Sio 
Metabolism, A Day's, C. C. Benson at 

al, 658 
Millinery, Teaching of, C. S. Gay, 363 
MoRAN, Mary H., Boston High School 

Lunches, 181 

News from Field, etc.: Albany Voca- 
tional School, X02; Bacteria Scare, 
97; Battersea Polytechnic Insti- 
tute, 691; Boston Conference on 
School Lunches, 694; Boston High 
School of Practical Arts, 104; Boston 
Trade School for Girls, 104; Bradley 
Polytechnic Institute, 436; Califor- 
nia, Home Economics Workers in, 
337; Chicago, University of, 100; 
Child Welfare Exhibit, New York 
City, 694; Colonization, English 
Experiment in, 94; Colorado Agri- 
cultural College, 437; Domestic Art, 
NewField for Teaching, 342 ; Eureka 
College, 438; German Household 
Association, 693; Home Economics 
in Farmers' Institutes, 692; in 
Women's Clubs, 692; Idaho, Domes- 
tic Science in, 343; University of, 
438; Illinois, Domestic Science Con- 
ference in, 105; University of, 689; 
Illinois Wesleyan University, 439; 
Illinois Woman's College, 439; In- 
ternational Congress of Alimentary 



704 



The Journal of Home Economics 



Hygiene, 344; International Con- 
gress for Home Education, 698 ; Iowa 
Association of Home Economics, 
107, 447; Ireland, Itinerant Instruc- 
tion in Domestic Economy, 448; 
James Milliken University, 440; 
Kansas State Agricultural College, 
236, 440; King's College for Women, 
London, 102, 445; Lake Erie Col- 
lege, 440; Lewis Institute, Chicago, 
440; Library Classification of 
Household Administration, 343; 
Manitoba Agricultural College, 102; 
Maryland Rural, Home Economics 
for Women in, 338; Massachusetts 
Agricultural College, 7,:^t,, 441; 
Mechanics Institute, 334; Middle- 
bury College, 441; Milwaukee 
Downer College, 335; Missouri, 
University of, 441; New Bedford, 
Massachusetts, Industrial School, 
336; New Mexico College of Agri- 
culture and Mechanic Arts, 236; 
New York, Annual Meeting of 
Chapter, 338; New York State Col- 
lege of Agriculture, Cornell Uni- 
versity, ^2)3^ 691; New York State 
Branch Association, 691 ; New York 
State Teacher's Association, 339; 
North Dakota Agricultural College, 
442; Northfield Seminary, Massa- 
chusetts, 336; Ohio, Domestic 
Science and Arts in, 107, 339, 691; 
Ontario, Women's Institutes in, 99; 
Pennsylvania School of Horticul- 
ture for Women, 443; Pennsylvania 
State College, 334; Philadelphia 
League of Homes and School Asso- 
ciation, 693; Pratt Institute, 334; 
Ravenhill, Miss Alice, 691; Rhode 
Island College, 443; Richards, Mrs. 
G. H., 694; Rockford College, 333, 
443; Santa Barbara State Normal 
School of Arts and HomeEconomics, 
435; School Lunch Problems, 694; 
Scranton, Pa., Y. W. C. A., 691; 
Stout Institute, 336; Teachers Col- 
lege, Columbia. loi, 690; Texas, 



Domestic Science in, 108; Travel- 
ing Cooking Schools, 95; Univer- 
sity Dissertations, 100; Utah, 
Agricultural College, 334, 443; 
Vermont, University of, 335; 
Virginia, Home Economics Work 
in, 340; Vocational Education, 448; 
Washington, D. C, Cooking in 
Schools, 341, 447; Wellesley Col- 
lege, 445; West Virginia, University 
of, 102; Wisconsin, University of, 
335. 690; Branch Association, 692 

NoRRis, James F., Chemistry for Stu- 
dents of Home Economics, 397 

Norton, Alice P. and Rich, Jessie 
H., Lesson in Cookery in the Ele- 
mentarj' School, 601 

Norton Charles L., Relation of 

Notices, 688 

Physics to Home Economics, 251 

NoYES, Clara D., Equipment for the 
Small Institutional Laundry, 544 

Nutrition Investigations, in Relation 
to Dining Room Management, C. 
F. Langworthy, 529; Problems in, 
201; Progress in, C. F. Lang- 
worthy, 35 

Nutting, Adelaide, General Problems 
in Administrative Work, 477 

Pasteurization of City Milk, Minna C. 
Denton, 279 

Patterson, Olive G., and Benson, C. 
C, Note on the Setting of Gelatin, 
656 

Penny Lunch, Experiment in Boston, 
E. H. Richards, 648; Served by the 
Starr Centre Association, Philadel- 
phia, A. C. Boughton, 178 

Physics, Relation to Home Economics, 
C. L. Norton, 251 

Physiology and Courses in Home Eco- 
nomics, P. G. Stiles, 393 

Powell, Louise, Linen Standards for 
Hospitals, 551 

Public Health, Improvement through 
Teaching of Hygiene in Public 
Schools, Frances Stern. 631 



Index to Volume II 



705 



Public Kitchen, Food Standards in, 
Bertha Stevenson, 289 

Rich, Ednah A., How to Make House- 
hold Arts Effective in the School 
and Community, 377 

Richards, Ellen H., Outlook in Home 
Economics, 17; Report of Penny 
Lunch Experiment in Boston, 648 

Ripley, Grace W., Teaching Design 
in Trade Classes, 366 

Rose, Flora, Preparation for Institu- 
tion Management, 507 

Sargent, Dudley A., Hygienic Dress 
and Dress Reform, 298 

Saunders, Jessie C, Floor Materials, 
564 

School Children, Study of Under- nour- 
ished of Baltimore, M.L.White, 170 

School Dinners in London Schools, G. 
Stewart, 185 

School Feeding in Europe, L. S. Bryant, 
149 

School Lunches, L S. Wile, 160; Bibli- 
ography of, 347; Boston High 
Schools, M. H. Moran, 181; in New 
York City, M. H. Kittridge, 174 

Shepperd, Juanita L., Courses in 
Home Economics as Related to the 
Department of Agriculture Work, 
403 

Snow, Jenny H., The House Course, 
384 

Social Work for Students of Home Eco- 
nomics, C. L. Hunt, 268 

Southard, Lydia, Quahfications of 
Head of College Dormitory, 496 

Spethmann, Marie T., Emma Hart 
Willard, a Pioneer in the Higher 
Education of Women, 204 

Standardizing the Home, J. R. Com- 
mons, 23 

Starbird, Grace G., Relation of 
Domestic Art to Fine Art Teach- 
ing, 19 

Stern, Era noes, Improvement in Pub- 
lic Health through the Teaching 



of Hygiene in the Elementary 

Schools, 631 
Stevenson, Bertha, Food Standards 

in Public Kitchen, 289 
Stewart, Gwendolyn, Economics of 

the Family, 209; School Dinners 

in London Schools, 185 
Stiles, Percy G., Physiology and 

Courses in Home Economics, 393 
Stone, Elizabeth, Relation of Fine Art 

to Domestic Art, 390 

Talbot, Marion, Dormitory Life for 

College Women, 490 
Tashjian, N., The Turk and His Table, 

274 
Trade Classes, Teaching Design in, G. 

W. Ripley, 366 
True, A. C, College Courses in Home 

Economics, 243 
Turk and His Table, N. Tashjian, 274 

Wardall, Ruth A., On the Relation of 
Yeast to Flavor in Bread, 75 

Waste in the Household, Elimination of, 
L. M. Griscom, 292 

Watson, Mary U., Practice Fields for 
Students of Institution Manage- 
ment, 505 

Way, Charlotte M., Dining Room 
Management, 521 

Wellman, Mabel, How to Use the 
loo-Calorie Portion in Dietary 
Teaching in High Schools, 615 

White, James M., Apphcation of 
Cement in Residence Construc- 
tion, 678 

White, M. L., Study of Under-nour- 
ished School Children of Balti- 
more, 170 

Wile, Ira S., School Lunches, 160 

Wilkinson, Henry W., Architecture 
in Relation to Institution Manage- 
ment, 561 

Willard, Emma Hart, a Pioneer in the 
Higher Education of Women, M. 
T. Spethmann, 204 



7o6 



The Journal of Home Economics 



WiLLARD, Florence, How to Teach the 
Preparation of Meals, 609 

Williams, Mary E., and Cohen, 
Amelia, Teaching Domestic Science 
to Different Nationalities, 271; 
Teaching of Household Furnishing 
and Decoration, 387 



Wllmot, Ruth A., Suggestions for 
Teaching Drafting in the First and 
Second Year of the High School, 
359 



TX 
1 

J7 
V.2 

Food 
Sciences 



Journal of home economi 



cs 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



