


IOME SCIENCE 
COOK BOOK 




:2 



coy i r.ir3aaL3u> 



MARY J, LINCOLN. fcNN . B/ I RO 



LIBRARY 

OF THE 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA. 

Class 



THE 



HOME SCIENCE COOK BOOK 



BY 



MARY J. LINCOLN AND ANNA BARROWS 



SIXTH PRINTING 




WHITCOMB & BARROWS 

BOSTON 

1910 




Of THf 

ER 

or 



4 



L, 1902, 

BY 



HOME SCIENCE PUBLISHING COMPANY. 



Copyright Assigned January I4th, 1904, 
TO 

MARY J. LINCOLN AND MARY BARROWS. 



Thomas Todd Co., Printers 
14 Beacon Street, Boston 



Preface. 



THE aim of this book is not to answer the question 
''what" as to choice of foods, nor "why" certain 
processes have been adopted as best suited to their 
preparation for the table, but it endeavors to tell 
"how" to put materials together to produce results 
pleasing to the eye and palate and nourishing to the 
body. 

The choice of foods may be considered in another 
handbook, but this one is distinctly a cook-book. 

Cook-books of the past contained recipes for color- 
ing fabrics, healing diseases, for cleaning, for pickling 
and preserving, yet little by little these processes have 
become trades, and have departed or are gradually 
going from under the home roof, probably never to 
return. The art of cooking still remains, and since 
the introduction of the chafing-dish and the gas stove 
is receiving new attention. 

This book is no rival to the larger cook-books, but 
presents much in little space, and suggests many 
short cuts for those who believe in simplifying life and 
for the busy people who have not time for elaborate 
processes. It will be most helpful to those who have 
taste and judgment in other matters, and are willing 
to use both brains and hands when cooking. Clean- 
ness in every detail and ' ' the application of good 
sense to the circumstances of the moment " are 
essentials in good cooking. 

iii 



214826 



iv Preface. 

Proportions are frequently given instead of definite 
quantities, that a recipe may more readily be adapted 
to the needs of families of different sizes. Uniformly 
small quantities are used with special reference to 
families of two or three persons. 

To save space and avoid repetition of the same 
process, a single recipe often is given with variations, 
instead of the many recipes found under one head in 
larger volumes. Hence the whole of any subject 
should be studied before undertaking any part of it. 



Time and Temperature. 

When thermometers come into general use as a 
kitchen appliance it may be possible to state how 
much heat any dish will bear and for how long. Under 
present conditions it seems better to show how we 
may know when a food is cooked instead of stating the 
exact number of minutes required. Most foods are 
better if subjected to moderate heat for a long 
time than to intense heat for a shorter period. Much 
also depends upon the shape and size of the article 
to be cooked and upon the variety and age of 
fruit or vegetable. 

Weights and Measures. 

All the measures used in this book are level unless 
otherwise specified. Flour is sifted before measuring, 
then sifted again with other ingredients. 

When butter is bought in prints it is simpler to 
divide by ounces than by the tablespoon. Two ounces 
of butter is equivalent to one- fourth of a cup or to four 
level tablespoons. 

Other measurements accord with those in general 

use. 

Three teaspoons = one tablespoon. 
Eight tablespoons = one-half cup. 
Two cups = one pint. 

To economize space the common termination " ful " 
has been omitted from spoon and cup, as common 
usage has dropped it from quart and peck. 



Contents. 



PAGE 

BREAKFAST . ' . l 

Fruit . - v '3 

Cereals . . . .16 

Bread . 2 3 

Quick Doughs . ..... 34 

Eggs . . . . .46 

LUNCHEON . ... > . 57 

Emergency Luncheons . . *. . . . 5 8 

School Lunch Basket . . ... . 61 

Sauces ^ . . _;,. . - . * 6 3 

Soups. . " ; ^ ' * ' 

Entrees . . > . * 8 3 

Salads and Salad Dressings . * ' . v 100 

DINNER ... - * IJ 3 

Fish' . '. . ... . . . H4 

Meats . . ; I26 
Vegetables . . . . V ' * ; ' I46 

Desserts' . . . . . . l6 4 

Cakes . . ^ . . ; . .195 

Chees6 ." . , . . 2I2 

Nuts' . > 2l6 

Beverages . . 2I 7 

How A. COURSE DINNER MAY BE SERVED WITHOUT A 

MAID . 22 3 

MENUS FOR EVERY DAY LIFE . 23 T 

INDEX . , . . . / .^ . 26 9 

vii 



Breakfast. 



THE 

UNIVERSITY 

\ OF 




Breakfast. 



MANY housekeepers would be happy to eliminate 
breakfast from the order of the day. To go without 
this meal has been something of a fad of late, and 
many who have tried this plan extol it highly, while 
others have returned to their former custom of a 
hearty meal in the morning. 

Breakfast in well-to-do American households usually 
consists of several courses, fruit, cereal, eggs, fish, 
or meat and potatoes, and warm bread, or griddle 
cakes, or doughnuts. 

Whether this is served in courses, or all placed on 
the table at once, depends upon the service available 
and the family custom. If one pair of hands must 
prepare and serve the food, the variety of dishes is 
usually reduced, and many households would be better 
off for such reduction. Let the variety extend over 
successive days, but do not make breakfast as sub- 
stantial as dinner. 

Two or three well-made dishes will supply the 
needed food principles as well as a dozen compounds. 
Fat is required, but cream, butter, and bacon should 
not all be provided at a single meal to supply it. 
Starch is necessary, but it is not essential that we get 
it from cereals, potato, and bread at the same time. 
Protein we must have, but we do not need eggs, and 
chops, and fish, all served for a single breakfast. 

Attractive table service counts for more at break- 
fast than at any other meal. Appetites are more 



2 Home Science Cook Book. 

fickle than after vigorous exercise later in the day. 
" Made dishes," or composite foods, are less appetizing 
than when served at luncheon or dinner. A sub- 
stantial cereal, a banana, and a glass of milk are some- 
times a better preparation for the day than a more 
elaborate combination of foods. 

Heavy meats, like steaks and chops, are seldom de- 
sirable ; tripe, liver, and fish seem less substantial ; the 
main dependence should be placed upon eggs, bacon, 
cold meats, or simple forms of reheating the remnants 
of a previous day's dinner. 

Fruit, raw or cooked, is always desirable for the 
breakfast table, and in cold weather warm stewed 
fruits are" undoubtedly most acceptable. Fruit might 
be substituted for potatoes occasionally as an accom- 
paniment to meat. 

Hot dishes and substantial foods are more acceptable 
in winter than during the summer. We should re- 
member, also, that everything cools rapidly on a cold 
morning, and precautions should be taken by the use 
of warm plates and platters to keep the food in good 
condition. 

The average breakfast, then, may consist of these 
types of food : 

Fruits, fresh or cooked, according to quality and 
season. 

Cereals, dry, hot, cold, or recooked like fried mush. 

Breads, hot, cold, toasts, and griddle cakes. 

Animal Food, eggs, and simple preparations of fish 
or meat. 

Drinks, coffee, cocoa, cereal coffee, tea, milk, or 
water. 



Fruit. 



Fruit. 

FRUIT is mainly water, but that is pure, and the 
solids are such as will aid in keeping the body in 
healthy condition. 

Perfect fruit is always best served in its natural 
condition, without cooking and without any addition. 
But fruit of the highest order is not always obtainable, 
nor is fresh fruit always most economical or digesti- 
ble, hence other modes of serving it must be devised. 

The market fluctuates ; a holiday, or a cold wave, or 
long rain, adds a few cents to the cost of even the 
common fruits, while a day or two earlier or later they 
may be proportionately lower in price. 

A prudent housekeeper has a reserve supply for 
such occasions; when prices were low she bought a 
double quantity, and now serves stewed or baked 
fruits. She may even anticipate the season and bring 
out a jar of canned blueberries or blackberries just as 
the new crop appears in the markets. Such fruits if 
properly canned and well aired after being taken from 
the jar are almost as good as when first cooked. 

When a quantity of berries is bought, the choicer 
specimens may be reserved to be eaten as they are. 

Washing Berries. 

One writer says of berries : * * Do not ruin their 
flavor by washing them"; this may apply to those 
grown in our own gardens, but not to those which 
come from city markets. When we think of the many 
hands and the clouds of dust through which most fruit 
comes to us, the loss of a little flavor is the less evil. 



4 Home Science Cook Book. 

There is a right and a wrong way of washing 
berries ; they should not be left standing in a pan of 
water in a warm kitchen, nor be put in a colander and 
water poured through long enough for the sand on the 
top layer to be washed down through the whole mass. 
Gently put a few at a time in a pan of cold water. 
Shake out the clusters of currants, or hull strawberries, 
rinsing each as lifted from the water, and the sand will 
be removed and settle to the bottom of the pan. Rasp- 
berries must be handled very carefully, but blueberries 
and gooseberries will bear quite severe treatment. 

Preparation. 

In the preparation of fruits no utensils should be 
used that can discolor them or injure the flavor. 
Agate or graniteware, wooden or silver spoons and 
silver knives are best suited to this work. 

There is much for Americans to learn from the 
French regarding their compotes or fruits preserved 
with little sugar, and made as needed. Too little care 
is given to the stewed fruits, and they are conse- 
quently despised. Indefinite quantities of fruit, sugar, 
and water are put together in a pan (perhaps a tin one), 
which is placed on the stove and left until it is con- 
venient to remove it. There may be so little water 
that the mixture scorches, or so much that it would 
better pass for one of the German fruit soups ; while 
sugar is used carelessly, and the compound is either 
unpalatably sour or sickishly sweet. 

When cooked with acid fruits, sugar loses much of 
its sweetening power ; therefore, it is more economical 
to add it after the cooked fruit has cooled. But most 
fruits keep their shape better if cooked in a thick sirup. 



Fruit. 5 

Watery fruits are improved by the addition of a 
little gelatin to thicken the juice after cooking. This 
is much to be preferred to an excess of sugar. 

A tiny speck of salt may be used with good effect 
in most stewed fruits. 

Only the larger and most perfect fruits should be 
baked whole. 

Berries and small fruits are usually stewed rather 
than baked, but an " afternoon oven " may be turned 
to good account in cooking them. The fruit is put in 
a sirup, or with alternate layers of sugar, and is cov- 
ered closely and left in the oven for several hours. 

In general, moderate heat, more like the natural 
ripening process, is best for cooking fruits ; shape and 
color are better preserved, and the natural flavor is not 
lost. Fruit juices, however, require little more than 
thorough scalding, provided they are afterward kept 
air-tight. 

When it is not convenient to cook fruit as soon as 
might seem desirable, the preserving qualities of sugar 
may be utilized and the fruit left covered with it for 
several hours or over night. Then a part of the juice 
may be drained off and cooked by itself if desired for 
jelly. The remainder of the fruit will make an excel- 
lent jam. 

It seems a pity to mash fine berries to get the juice 
for ice-cream, when so many are inferior in appear- 
ance, but are of good flavor, and would answer for 
juice alone. Often it is wiser to prepare two or more 
boxes at one time and select the best to serve whole, 
and use the smaller or imperfect ones for dishes in 
which the juice only is required. 

Such juice has other possibilities besides ice-cream 



6 Home Science Cook Book. 

and sherbets. It may be used to dilute the heavy 
cream before whipping for a filling for layer cakes or 
cream puffs, or for many gelatin desserts, or to cook 
with tapioca or rice, or as the basis of fruit soups. 

While fine fruit is best for cooking as well as to 
serve raw, imperfect or half ripe fruit will be palatable 
and digestible when carefully cooked ; if insipid, a slice 
or two of lemon, a bit of cinnamon bark, or a few 
cloves may be cooked in the sirup and removed after- 
ward. Over-ripe or decayed fruit should never be 
used. 

Some housekeepers find it easier to stock their 
shelves with rows of well-filled jars of fruit little by 
little rather than by wholesale canning. Thus it is easy 
to keep the table supplied with fresh-stewed fruit and at 
the same time fill a jar or two. The necessary direc- 
tions for stewing fruits and canning and preserving are 
nearly identical. Prepare the fruit carefully, cook it 
slowly, but at sufficiently high temperature to destroy 
germs of decay then keep them out by keeping the 
air out. 

Often several varieties of fruit may be combined, as 
raspberries with currants, apples with pineapple, 
quince, or barberries. Fruits may be combined in 
salads without number, which serve equally well for 
the first course at luncheon or the last at dinner ; and 
their juices, sweetened and chilled, or frozen, make 
an unlimited variety of refreshing desserts and bev- 
erages. Some of them are more satisfying when 
cooked with rice or cereal ; but the rich combinations 
with eggs, or fat in pastry, are no improvement on 
the simpler ways, and take time and heat for their 
preparation. 



Fruit. 7 

Dried Fruits. 

Dried fruits having parted with their natural juices 
in the drying process need to have this moisture re- 
stored before they are cooked. The most effectual 
way to do this is to let them soak in cold water, first, 
of course, picking them over carefully and washing 
them in lukewarm water to dislodge dirt and other 
foreign substances. The time for soaking will depend 
upon the dryness of the fruit, but sufficient water 
should be absorbed to fill out the skins to the natural 
outlines. 

Such fruits should be cooked very slowly, and 
should be watched carefully and removed as soon as 
tender. The time will vary with the ripeness of the 
fruit before drying, and with its natural texture, and 
no positive rule can be given. Fruits that are very 
ripe before they are dried, or that have naturally a 
very soft texture, are much more difficult to keep in 
shape than those with a firm flesh, and sometimes need 
little or no cooking. 

Baked Apples. 

Wipe, put in a granite pan, and bake in moderate 
heat until tender. The time will vary with different 
varieties of apples. Or core and pare, fill the center 
with sugar, and put a little water in the dish. Dip up 
the sirup and pour over the apples while baking. 

Stuffed Apples. 

Pare and push out the core of six fine apples, put 
them in a baking pan, cover, and cook in the oven till 
tender, yet in perfect form ; place each apple on a hot 
buttered slice of toast or shredded wheat biscuit, fill 



8 Home Science Cook Book. 

cavity of apples with good mincemeat, cover the top 
with meringue made from one egg white and one 
tablespoon of powdered sugar; brown lightly in the 
oven and serve. 

Apples Baked with Butter. 

Cover' the bottom of a granite pie plate with butter, 
and melt it. Lay in apples (which have been quar- 
tered, pared, and cored), enough to fill the dish. 
Sprinkle one-half cup of sugar over them and cook 
slowly in the oven till tender. Or make a sirup with 
two ounces of butter, one cup of sugar, and one-half 
cup of water, and baste whole apples with it as they 
are baking. 

Jellied Apples. 

Pare and scoop out the center of fine apples, set in 
a baking pan, put three seeded raisins or candied 
cherries in each cavity with one teaspoon of sugar. 
Bake covered till tender without losing shape, cool, 
place each apple carefully in a custard cup, fill the cup 
with liquid lemon or orange jelly; when quite firm 
turn out and surround with whipped cream. 

Apple Sauce. 

Pare and core apples, and put in a granite kettle with 
a little water. Cover closely and cook rapidly till 
soft, about ten minutes. Rub through a strainer and 
sweeten. If the apples are free from bruised or knurly 
places they need only mashing and will have a finer 
flavor than when sifted. 

Compote of Apples. 

Make a sirup with one cup each of sugar and water. 



Fruit. 9 

Flavor with a bit of lemon peel or cinnamon bark if 
the apples require it. Core and pare medium- sized 
apples, and cook them whole in the sirup, turning 
over occasionally. When soft, drain, and fill the cent- 
ers with a bright red jelly, or with chopped nuts and 
raisins. After filling sprinkle with sugar and glaze by 
putting in the oven for a few moments. 

Baked Apple Sauce. 

Put quarters of pared and cored apples in a deep 
earthen jar. Sprinkle with sugar, add a little water, 
cover closely, and bake for several hours. The quar- 
ters will keep their shape and be a rich red in color. 

Molasses may be used in place of sugar and water. 

Fried Apples. 

Core apples without paring, and cut crosswise in 
half-inch slices. Roll in flour if very juicy. Fry or 
bake with pork chops or with sausages. Or dip in 
melted sausage fat, put in a shallow pan, and toast 
one side, and then turn and brown the other under the 
gas broiler. 

Apricots. 

This fruit may be substituted for peaches in many 
cases. When fresh they may be cooked whole, or cut 
in halves and stewed in a sirup. Some of the pits of 
the stone cooked with the fruit give more flavor. 

Dried Apricots. 

When evaporated the apricots often must be soaked 
for an hour before they can be washed clean. Then 
cover with cold water and soak twenty-four hours. 
The apricots will take up water equal to their original 



io Home Science Cook Book. 

weight. Cook gently until plump and tender, and add 
sugar after taking from the stove. 

Apricot Sirup. 

Rub stewed dry apricots through a strainer , adding 
more water as required. Scald and add one-fourth 
cup of sugar for each cup of sirup. Use with griddle 
cakes or boiled rice. 

Baked Bananas. 

Fill a shallow baking dish with bananas, peeled and 
cut in halves, lengthwise and crosswise. Allow one 
level tablespoon of sugar, one teaspoon of melted 
butter, a few grains of salt, one teaspoon of lemon 
juice, and two tablespoons of water to each banana. 

Baste frequently with the sirup, and bake slowly 
half an hour, or till bananas are red and sirup thick. 
Serve hot. 

Fried Bananas. 

Peel and scrape small firm bananas. Roll in crumbs, 
beaten eggs, and crumbs again ; put in a wire basket, 
and fry in deep fat for about three minutes. Serve 
with meat in place of potatoes. Or they may be simply 
sauted in a little hot butter. 

Blackberries. 

These require but little sugar. If stewed too long 
the seeds become bitter. 

Bluebei ries. 

Pick over and wash the berries. Put one cup of 
water in the kettle for each quart of berries. Cook 
rapidly till every berry is burst. When cool add from 
one-fourth to one-half cup of sugar for each quart. 



Fruit. 1 1 

Cherries. 

Remove part or all of the stones if possible. This 
fruit stews quickly and requires considerable sugar. 

Jellied Cranberries. 

Pick over and wash one quart of cranberries. Put 
in a granite kettle with one pint of sugar and one cup 
of water. Cover till they begin to boil, then with a 
wooden spoon press the uncooked berries under the 
sirup. When all have burst pour into earthen molds. 
When cold the fruit will be jellied, and can be turned 
from the mold. 

Strained Cranberry Jelly. 

Cook one quart of cranberries with one pint of 
water till all are burst, about ten minutes. Rub 
through a strainer fine enough to retain the seeds. 
Add one pint of sugar and cook ten minutes longer. 
Put in molds and chill. 

Currants. 

Dip fine clusters of currants in beaten white of egg, 
then in powdered sugar. 

Half ripe currants may be stewed like cranberries. 

Strained currant juice, sweetened, combines well 
with sliced bananas. 

Dates. 

Wash each date separately, put on a plate, place in 
a steamer, and cook for fifteen minutes. 

Dates may be stewed, sifted, and used much like 
pumpkin and squash. 

Stewed Figs. 

Use the whole figs which come in bags and have 



12 Home Science Cook Book. 

not been pressed in packing enough to break them. 
Rinse and soak them in cold water, and pull them into 
shape ; then put them in a steamer or into a stew-pan, 
add a very little water, and let them steam an hour, or 
until very soft. Remove them from the pan, boil the 
sirup till thick, strain, pour it over the figs. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Gooseberries. 

Remove stems and blossom ends; wash and stew 
with a little water. Then add half as much sugar as 
fruit or enough to make them palatable. 

Grapes Spiced. 

Remove skins, stew pulp, strain out seeds, and put 
pulp and skins together. Add half the weight of the 
fruit in sugar. Tie a few cloves, allspice, and bits of 
cassia in a cloth and cook with the fruit for about half 
an hour. 

Grapefruit. 

Cut across in halves and cut out a portion of the 
center, removing pith and seeds. The pulp may then 
be eaten with a spoon without difficulty and with or 
without sugar as preferred. 

Lemons and Limes. 

These are mainly used for beverages and for flavor- 
ing other foods. 

Melons. 

Cantaloup should be cut in halves across, and have 
the seeds removed. A lump of ice is often put in each 
section, but it is better to chill them without diluting 
the juice. 



Fruit. 13 

A sprinkle of sugar or salt will improve a tasteless 
melon. 

Watermelon should be chilled for ten or twelve 
hours before serving. Cut across and cut enough 
from either end to make the sections stand firmly. 

Scoop out the pink pulp in cone shapes with a spoon. 

Orange Cups. 

Cut oranges in halves, and with a spoon scoop out 
the pulp and juice, then scrape out the white mem- 
brane, and set the cups in a pan of ice. Cut Malaga 
grapes in halves and remove the seeds. If the skins 
are tough, peel them before cutting. Have equal 
parts of grapes and banana, cut in small pieces. Add 
the juice of one lemon to the juice of three oranges, 
and sweeten it. Add also a dash of salt. Fill the 
orange cups with the mixture of fruits, pour the sweet- 
ened juice over the fruit, and put a spoonful of thick 
whipped cream on top. Serve very cold. 

Peaches. 

If to be served fresh, pare and slice them just before 
serving, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. They are 
not improved by standing, and few fruits discolor so 
quickly on exposure to the air. If ripe and very 
juicy, pare and halve them, fill the cavity with sugar, 
and cover with whipped cream. 

Pears. 

Bake whole or stew like apples. 

Pineapples. 

Remove every particle of skin. With a strong fork 
pull the pulp away from the core. Sprinkle with 
sugar, and leave for some hours before serving. 



14 Home Science Cook Book. 

Plums. 

Prick with a fork or needle to prevent the skin burst- 
ing. Stew gently. Add sugar as desired. 

Prunes. 

Pick over, wash in tepid water, and soak in cold water 
till plump, from twelve to twenty-four hours. Heat 
gradually in the water in which they were soaked, and 
cook slowly, closely covered, till the skins are soft, 
letting the water cook away till sirup is thick. Ex- 
cept in some of the most acid varieties no sugar is 
needed. Many prunes are so rich in sugar that a little 
lemon juice is an improvement. 

Stuffed Prunes. 

Steam large prunes till tender, but not too soft ; re- 
move stones and stuff with nuts and dates or raisins 
chopped fine. Roll in sugar. These are improved by 
keeping for several days. 

Quinces. 

Wipe, core, put in a pan and half cover with water. 
Bake in a quick oven, add sugar when nearly done, 
and eat hot with butter. Or stew like any hard apples. 

Raisins. 

Wash, soak, and stew like other dried fruits. Or 
while cooking add an equal quantity of sliced apple, 
soaked dried apple, cranberries, or apricots. When 
using raisins that lack flavor stew in grape juice. 

Previous soaking and cooking improves raisins for 
puddings and pies. 

Raspberries. 

Equal quantities of currants and raspberries cooked 



Fruit. 15 

together are an excellent combination for canning or 
immediate use. 

Rhubarb or Pie Plant. 

Wash, peel the flat side of the stalk, and cut in half- 
inch slices. The tender pink varieties need no peel- 
ing, and the sauce has a finer color if the skin is not 
removed. Put in an agate kettle with an equal weight, 
or half as much sugar by measure. Leave several 
hours till the sugar is nearly dissolved. There will be 
juice enough without adding water. 

Stew or bake until the stalks are soft. 

Strawberries. 

Wash and hull just before serving if possible. Large 
perfect berries are served with stems on and simply 
rolled in powdered sugar. 

For ice-cream, etc., mash, sprinkle with sugar, and 
press the juice through a cloth. 

Tutti Frutti. 

There are many combinations of different fruits 
which may be served as a fruit cocktail in small glasses 
as a relish for breakfast or luncheon, or used as a gar- 
nish for some custard or cereal pudding, or as the fill- 
ing for a shortcake. 

It is hardly possible to combine fruits in such a way 
that they are unpalatable, but these proportions are 
especially satisfactory. 

Make a sirup with the juice of a large lemon and one 
cup of sugar; when cool mix with the pulp of two 
oranges and four bananas cut in bits. A cup of grated 
pineapple may be substituted for the oranges. 



16 Home Science Cook Book. 



Cereals. 

CEREALS are from two-thirds to three-fourths starch, 
and the balance consists of protein, fat, water, mineral 
matter, and woody fiber. Since cereals absorb several 
times their bulk of water while cooking and milk is 
usually eaten with them, the result is a food which is 
about three-fourths water. Analyses of oatmeal and 
corn-meal generally show a slightly larger proportion of 
fat than is found in wheat ; hence, those grains should 
be used more freely in winter than in summer, while 
wheat and rice are better for warm weather. 

The great variety of prepared cereals displayed in 
our grocery stores indicates the favor in which they 
are held. Through the ingenuity of the millers, 
barley, corn, oats, rice, rye, and wheat are prepared in 
many different forms. 

It is not wise to try to gratify the notions of dif- 
ferent members of a family for the various cereals 
every morning. What a procession of double boilers 
would be required ! Rather have some rotation 
through the different days of the week. With the 
great variety of prepared grains in the market it is 
quite possible to have a different one every morning 
for a fortnight. 

The utensils to be chosen for cooking mushes re- 
quire some attention. Not only are the cereals to be 
combined with water, but usually are to be cooked 
over water. When a double boiler is not available, a 
tin pail can be used if placed on a trivet to raise it 
from the bottom of the kettle of water. Another way 



Cereals. 17 

is to place the dish containing the cereal, salt, and a 
little less than the usual quantity of boiling water in a 
steamer and cook till tender. 

From a shallow dish, even if covered, there is more 
evaporation than from a deep one, but a large quantity 
of cereal cooked in a deep dish will pack down so 
solidly that the lower part may be stiff and unpalatable. 

Hominy, cracked wheat, and the coarser grains 
must be picked over before cooking, and are not 
harmed by washing and soaking. The finer forms 
may be sifted, for all grains are liable to invasions by 
insects. All the prepared cereals are better if cooked for 
a longer time than the usual printed directions indi- 
cate. Double the time given on most packages is 
none too long to make the grains wholesome and pala- 
table. It is hardly possible to cook any grain too 
long. Coarse oatmeal and cracked wheat should be 
cooked several hours the previous day to be fit for 
breakfast. 

It is important to start with the right proportion of 
water in making mushes, for the sticky consistency of 
the cooked grains makes it difficult to add more after 
the process is begun, and it is not easy to dispose of 
any if too much is used at first. The proper quantity 
of water depends upon the nature of the grain, the 
size of its particles, and upon the dish in which it is 
cooked. 

The object in cooking cereals is to provide for the 
absorption of water and the thorough cooking of the 
starch. The larger and drier the grain, the more 
time is required to accomplish these results. Whole 
grains are improved by soaking in cold water. To 
prevent the formation of lumps, finely ground prepara- 



i8 Home Science Cook Book. 

tions may be mixed with cold water first. All others 
should be put into boiling water. 

Ordinary oatmeal needs four times its bulk of water, 
cracked wheat, a little more. The rolled grains re- 
quire but twice their bulk. Being crushed they ex- 
pose much more surface to the action of the water 
and heat, and therefore may be cooked more quickly 
than the cracked oats. 

Granulated wheat preparations (and their name is 
legion) will need about four times as much water as 
cereal, and must be mixed carefully to avoid lumps. 
Corn-meal likewise requires three or four times its bulk 
of water, and should be cooked for hours to be pala- 
table and digestible. Use one teaspoon of salt to each 
quart of water. Have the water boiling hot, add the 
cereal gradually, letting the mixture cook rapidly for 
a few minutes. Then place over boiling water to cook 
slowly for a long time, covered and without stirring. 

Rice can be cooked in a large quantity of water and 
drained, which leaves the grains separate and distinct, 
but this is wasteful unless the water is used in thick- 
ening a soup. 

Of the several cereals already cooked, which may be 
served directly from the package or after slightly 
heating, nothing need be said here, except that they 
are convenient for emergencies and seem well adapted 
to the use of some individuals who cannot enjoy other 
preparations. 

Cereals are sometimes cooked, in strained fruit juice, 
in milk, or in soup stock when it is desirable to give 
variety or increase the nutriment. Fruit may be 
cooked with the grains ; raisins, dates, and apples are 
best suited for this purpose. 



Cereals. 19 

Fresh or cooked fruits are excellent accompani- 
ments to the breakfast cereals. 

For hot weather cereals are often more attractive 
served cold. They should be cooked the previous day 
and molded in individual or fancy shapes. Even if 
served hot a moderately stiff mush will take the shape 
of a mold if it can stand there for fifteen minutes 
before being turned out to serve. 

Mush Balls. 

Season one pint of mush left from breakfast with 
more salt, if needed, a dash of pepper, and a few drops 
of onion juice. Shape in small balls, dip in melted fat, 
and bake in a hot oven. Or roll in egg and crumbs 
and brown in hot fat. Serve in place of potato. 

Apple Farina. 

Into one pint of boiling water, salted, stir one- 
quarter cup of farina. As soon as thickened slice in 
two good sized apples, and cook for one-half hour or 
till the apples are soft. This may be molded and 
served with whipped cream as a dessert. 

Barley a la Strassburg. 

Pour boiling water over half a cup of pearl barley; 
and drain dry. 'Melt one tablespoon of butter in a 
stew-pan ; add the barley, and let it cook until slightly 
browned and it has absorbed the butter. Then add 
one quart of thin stock and let it boil until tender and 
dry. Season with salt, and serve as a vegetable. 

Hulled Corn. 

Boil the whole kernels of yellow corn in soda water 
or lye from wood-ashes till the hulls loosen. Allow 



20 Home Science Cook Book. 

one tablespoon of soda for each quart of corn. Then 
wash in cold water, rubbing off the hulls. Boil the 
corn till tender, changing the water once or twice at 
first. 

Few care to take this trouble, since the corn already 
hulled can be purchased in most large towns. 

Hominy. 

Pick over, wash, and soak over night in an equal 
measure of cold water. Stir into a double measure of 
rapidly boiling salted water, and cook for ten minutes ; 
then put into a steamer and steam for several hours. 

Hominy Cakes. 

Break up one cup of cold cooked hominy with a fork, 
and beat in one egg and one tablespoon of melted 
butter. Fry like griddle cakes. 

Corn Mush or Hasty Pudding. 

Mix one cup of corn-meal with one cup of cold water 
and stir into one pint of salted boiling water. If the 
meal is very coarse add a small quantity of white flour 
to make a smoother mass for slicing. When thick 
place in a steamer and cook for several hours. A cup 
of corn-meal (costing one cent) cooked for several 
hours will fill a brick-loaf bread pan with mush. The 
pan should first be rinsed with cold water and the sur- 
face of the mush afterward smoothed with cold water. 
When cold this is a solid mass ready to cut in slices 
and fry. Other cereals may be prepared in the same 
way. Baking powder cans may be used for molds. 

Fried Mush. 

Dip each slice in flour and cook in salt pork fat in a 



Of THE 

I UNIVERSITY I 

of y 

"$$&/ 

Cereals. 21 

frying-pan, or dip in melted fat and broil under the 
gas flame. 

Boiled Rice. 

Pick over and wash one cup of rice, put into two 
quarts or more of rapidly boiling salted water. Stir 
at first to prevent any grains from sticking to the 
bottom of the kettle. Let it boil fast for twenty 
minutes or more until tender. Then drain thoroughly 
and serve plain, or use for croquettes, timbales, etc. 
One cup of raw rice will, when cooked, nearly fill a 
quart measure. 

Spanish Rice. 

Fry half a cup of rice in a little butter until it turns 
a light brown. Then pour on nearly one quart of 
boiling water and boil the rice until soft. Fry two 
large onions, four large tomatoes, and three green 
peppers until soft. Add this to the boiled rice just 
before serving. Add salt if necessary, and serve hot. 

Turkish Rice or Pilau. 

Wash one cup of rice, and put in upper part of double 
boiler with three cups of stock and strained tomato. 
Cook rapidly directly over the fire for ten minutes ; 
then place over water and cook till the rice is tender. 
Season with butter, onion juice, salt, and pepper. Serve 
with stewed lamb or chicken. 

Rice Timbales. 

Pick over and wash one cup of rice and boil in a 
large quantity of salted water until nearly tender. 
Drain thoroughly and put in a double boiler with one 
cup of tomato or curry sauce. Let it cook gently till 



22 Home Science Cook Book. 

the sauce is absorbed, ten to twenty minutes, then 
pack in timbale molds and keep in a warm place until 
ready to serve. Turn out around a platter of meat. 

Rice Surprise. 

Boil one cup of rice in two quarts of boiling water 
till tender, drain, and while warm line a mold. Fill 
with one pint of cold meat well seasoned and moistened 
with one cup of tomato sauce, or with one cup of soup 
stock mixed with one beaten egg. Cover with the 
rice and steam or bake in a pan of water for about 
forty minutes. Turn from the mold and serve with 
tomato sauce. 

Sweet Rice. 

Boil one cup of rice in three pints of water until 
every grain is dissolved and the water displaced by 
thick paste of rice. Stir into it one cup of sugar, rind 
of one lemon, and one teaspoon of salt. Beat one-half 
cup of cream to a stiff froth and stir it into the rice. 
Then mix in one-half cup of preserve juice, which 
should be a bright color. Put into molds. 

Rice Croquettes. 

Steam one cup of well- washed rice in one pint of 
boiling water, or milk and water, until very soft. Add, 
while hot, one teaspoon of butter, the well-beaten yolk 
of one egg, and a little hot milk if it needs more moist- 
ure. When cool, shape into small ovals, roll in crumbs, 
dip in egg, roll in crumbs again, and fry. Or, after 
shaping, press the thumb into the center of each, and 
put in two boiled raisins or candied cherries, or half a 
teaspoon of jelly. Close the rice over the center, roll 
in crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumbs again, and fry. 



Bread. 23 



Bread. 

WARM bread for breakfast is an American custom to 
which much dyspepsia has been attributed. Such 
breakfast breads, if carefully mixed and thoroughly 
baked, should not injure persons in good health. 

With a gas stove, well baked hot bread can be on 
the breakfast table in half an hour after the cook 
enters the kitchen. 

Since modern yeast cakes have made the rising 
of bread over night unnecessary, perhaps fewer raised 
rolls and muffins are served at the morning meal. The 
second rising of such breads makes their preparation 
a long process. 

All types of bread are considered together here. 
They are divided into groups according to the means 
by which they are made light, or full of air, yeast, 
soda with acids, and egg or beating. 

Yeast Doughs. 

Yeast, liquid, and flour are the essential ingredients 
in bread-making, and the proportions may be varied 
according to conditions. 

Sugar, shortening, and salt are used in varying 
proportions, but even if they were omitted altogether it 
would be possible to have wholesome, palatable bread. 

Few households still depend on home-made yeast. 
The dry yeast cakes are useful in isolated communi- 
ties and in emergencies. In cities and large towns the 
main dependence is the compressed yeast cake. Its 
general appearance should be something like fresh 
cheese, firm and solid, not soft and pasty, nor dark 



24 Home Science Cook Book. 

colored and moldy. When only part of a yeast cake is 
used, if it is cut off squarely the remainder may be 
wrapped smoothly in the tin foil again and kept a 
little longer. 

It seems to be an open question whether it is more 
desirable to use a small portion of yeast and allow the 
dough to rise for a longer time, or a larger portion of 
yeast and thus do the work more quickly. Until the 
scientists work out this question for us the house- 
keeper will find it convenient to vary the quantity of 
yeast according to conditions. 

The three important points to consider are the time, 
temperature, and quantity of yeast ; where one must 
be diminished, the others should be increased. 

Fermentation is hindered by the presence of salt, 
but hastened by a small quantity of sugar. 

A large amount of sugar makes the dough so dense 
that the yeast cannot expand readily. An excess of 
shortening or an undue quantity of flour has much 
the same effect. 

The liquid may be milk or water, or half of each. 
The milk supplies small quantities of sugar and fat 
and nitrogenous matter, and presumably produces a 
more nourishing loaf than that which is made with 
water. Skimmed milk can be turned to good account 
for this purpose. 

It is desirable to have the liquid warm that the 
dough may rise more rapidly, and that the fat, sugar, 
and salt may readily blend with the other ingredients. 
When the liquid is cool enough so there is no danger 
of cooking the yeast (below 100 F.), that is added and 
thoroughly mixed through the liquid, and next sufficient 
flour is worked in to give the desired consistency. 



Bread. 25 

Bread flour differs from pastry flour by containing a 
larger proportion of gluten, though both are chiefly 
starch. The nutritive value of a flour depends largely 
upon the amount of gluten or nitrogenous matter 
which it contains. Because of the presence of gluten, 
wheat furnishes the best flour for yeast doughs. 
When moistened, the gluten is adhesive and thus 
retains the gas bubbles formed by the yeast in much 
the same way that egg whites, when they are beaten, 
gather in air. 

There is such variation in flours that it is impossible 
to give exact recipes for doughs, but it is easy to learn 
certain general proportions, and experience must teach 
the rest. Seven-eighths of a measure of bread flour 
will make a dough as stiff as a full measure of pastry 
flour. A simple formula will be helpful in interpret- 
ing recipes where the exact quantities of flour or liquid 
are not stated. 

One measure of flour to one of liquid makes a 
batter. 

Two measures of flour to one of liquid gives the 
usual muffin mixture. 

Three measures of flour to one of liquid makes a 
soft dough, but one that may be kneaded. 

Four measures of flour to one of liquid is the usual 
proportion for doughs to be rolled thin like pastry or 
cookies. 

Batters and muffins can be stirred with a spoon. 
Doughs are mixed more thoroughly and easily with a 
knife. 

The process of mixing bread shows in the softer 
stages the batter, and drop batter, or muffin mixture. 

A " sponge" is about half-way between those 



26 Home Science Cook Book. 

stages. Half the quantity of flour to be used is 
mixed with the liquid and this is allowed to rise till 
foamy, when the remainder of the flour is added. The 
advantage of this division is that a little less flour is 
required, since the first has time and room to swell 
before the second is put in. The process is somewhat 
shortened, because in the first stage there is less re- 
sistance for the yeast to overcome, and the whole 
sponge becomes yeast for the second stage. 

Many old recipes for mixing bread give directions 
for rubbing shortening into the required quantity of 
flour and then adding the other ingredients and 
sufficient liquid to make a dough that can be kneaded. 
This is at best a long and awkward process, and noth- 
ing is gained by it in yeast doughs when the liquid 
should be warm and can be used to melt the fat. 
Except in raised cakes, little or no fat is required in 
yeast doughs. 

It is customary to knead dough when first mixed 
just enough to be certain that all ingredients are thor- 
oughly blended. Then it is put back in the bowl 
(earthenware gives the dough a more even temperature 
than tin) and covered while it is rising. Sometimes 
the uncovered dish is placed in a bread raiser, where it 
will be surrounded by moist warm air, or the surface 
of the dough is brushed over with melted fat. These 
precautions aid in preventing the formation of a dry 
crust caused by the evaporation of the water on the 
surface during the process of rising. Where the bread 
raiser is not possible, the bowl containing the dough 
may be set in a pan of warm water which is changed 
to keep an even temperature. If the dough must 
stand over night in a cool kitchen, the bowl is fre- 



Bread. 27 

quently wrapped in a blanket to prevent the escape 
of heat. 

Time is often wasted in kneading dough, though it 
seems to be agreed that some kneading gives a better 
texture to the bread. 

After the dough has doubled in bulk it must be 
shaped for baking and should be kneaded enough to 
bring it into good shape and to redistribute the air 
bubbles which have run together and formed larger 
ones. No flour should be added at this stage, for 
much time is required to work in a little flour at this 
point. It is better to dip the fingers in melted fat if 
the dough inclines to stick, or milk may be used 
instead of the butter. First make smooth, round balls, 
then by gentle rolling and pressure the finger roll may 
be made, then continue the rolling till the strips can 
be twisted, or serve as sticks for soup. 

When rolls are to be cut out and folded, it is un- 
necessary to knead the dough, for the pressure of the 
rolling pin will equalize the air bubbles. Instead of 
making the dough for rolls rich with butter or lard, it 
is wiser to brush over the outside of the rolls with 
melted fat when they are put in the pan. 

The dough must be allowed to again double in bulk 
and then it is ready to bake. 

For fancy breads make a sponge first, and let the 
mixture rise three times. For bread add all the flour 
at once, knead slightly, and let rise till double in bulk. 

The baking of bread is an important part in its 
manufacture. In general, yeast doughs having risen 
before being put in the oven will bear a higher degree 
of heat at first than other doughs. Large loaves re- 
quire a more moderate oven than rolls, in order that 



28 Home Science Cook Book. 

the heat may penetrate evenly, but they must remain 
a sufficient time to raise the center of the loaf to a 
degree of heat that will insure the destruction of the 
yeast. A moderate temperature often will allow the 
dough to continue rising and sour in the oven. Even 
in practical every-day cookery it is essential to remem- 
ber that yeast must be treated like other forms of 
plant life. When we want a seed to grow we must 
provide suitable temperature, the right kind of soil, 
and sufficient moisture. After the work of the yeast 
is done, and a puffy mass of dough is the result, the 
vitality of the yeast must be entirely destroyed by 
great heat. 

Bread One Loaf. 

One cup of milk, or half milk, half water, one-half 
teaspoon each of salt and sugar, from one-fourth to 
one whole yeast cake, according to time, softened in 
water, and about three cups of bread flour. Mix thor- 
oughly and knead into a smooth dough. Let rise till 
double, shape, put in pan, rise again, and bake. If 
preferred, this quantity may be shaped into a dozen or 
a dozen and a half rolls. 

Water Bread, with Dry Yeast. 

At noon, soften a dry yeast cake in a cup of warm 
water and stir in a cup or more of flour, cover, and 
leave in a warm place till night, when it will be light. 
In the bread pan put a quart of warm water, two 
teaspoons of salt, two tablespoons of sugar, and two 
of butter, the cup of yeast, and enough flour, white or 
brown, to knead about three quarts. f 

In the morning, divide the dough into loaves and 
rolls, put in pans to rise again, and bake. 



Bread. 29 

Entire Wheat Bread. 

Scald one cup of milk and melt in it one teaspoon of 
butter and half a teaspoon each of sugar and salt. 
When cool, add half a cake of compressed yeast, 
softened in one-fourth cup of lukewarm water. Stir 
in flour to make a dough stiff enough to keep its shape 
between two and three cups. Stir and cut it thor- 
oughly with a broad-bladed knife, but do not knead it 
until after it has risen to double its bulk and ready to 
be shaped into a long, small roll for baking. Do not 
bake it in a large, thick loaf. Let the roll rise until 
light and double in size and bake in a hot oven about 
half an hour. Mix in the morning, and it will be risen 
and baked before dinner. 

Entire Wheat Bread with White Sponge. 

Graham or rye bread can be made in the same way. 

One cup of warm milk, one-half teaspoon each of 
salt and sugar, one-half yeast cake, softened in one- 
fourth cup of water. Mix with one and one-half cups 
of white flour. Let this rise until light, and then stir 
in enough whole wheat flour to make a dough that 
could be kneaded. Let it rise again till double in bulk. 
Then shape into a loaf, rise, and bake. 

One-fourth cup of molasses may be mixed with the 
light sponge when the whole wheat flour is added. 

Oatmeal Biscuit or Bread. 

One cup of rolled oats, one tablespoon of lard, and a 
little salt. Pour on two cups of boiling water. Let it 
stand till lukewarm ; then add one-half cup of molasses 
and one yeast cake, and flour enough to mold. Let it 
rise, then shape, rise again and bake. 



30 Home Science Cook Book. 

Rolls. 

In a bowl put one tablespoon of butter or lard, one 
tablespoon of sugar, one teaspoon of salt, and one pint 
of scalding hot milk. When cool, if to rise over 
night, add one-quarter yeast cake, softened in a little 
water, and three cups of flour. In the morning, or 
when light, add to this sponge about three cups more 
of flour, or enough to knead. Let rise till double in 
bulk. Then shape, put in pans, rise again, and bake. 

Crumpets or English Muffins. 

Mix like rolls without adding the second lot of flour. 
Bake in muffin rings on a hot griddle, and turn when 
half done. The muffins may be made a little stiffer 
and be shaped with the hands. 

Raised Muffins. 

Mix and rise like rolls without adding flour the second 
time. When light add two or three eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately. Bake in gem or muffin pans. 

Quick Bread. 

Use the same proportions as for rolls, but increase 
the quantity of yeast, using two or three cakes. Thus 
it may be made and baked in two hours. 

Bread Sticks. 

Use well-risen yeast dough, that which is made with 
milk preferred. Shape in small balls, then roll into 
sticks a foot long. Do not let them touch each other 
in the pan while rising. Bake till crisp. 

Swedish Rolls. 

Take enough dough to make one small loaf, roll one- 



Bread. 31 

quarter of an inch thick, spread with two tablespoons 
of soft butter, sprinkle with one-fourth cup of sugar 
mixed with one saltspoon of cinnamon and a few 
currants or raisins. Roll like jelly cake, cut in one- 
half inch slices, lay flat in a pan, rise till double in 
size, and bake. 

Mush Muffins. 

One cup of milk, scalded, one cup of hominy, oat- 
meal, or other cooked cereal, one teaspoon of butter, 
one tablespoon of sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, one- 
quarter of a yeast cake, about one pint of flour. Mix 
thoroughly, let rise over night, or till very light, then 
beat well, put in gem pans. Let them rise till double 
in bulk, and then bake for about one-half hour. 

Squash or Potato Rolls. 

One cup of scalded milk, one tablespoon of butter, 
one or two tablespoons of sugar, one-half teaspoon of 
salt, one cup of sifted squash or sweet or white potato, 
one-fourth to one-half yeast cake. Mix with three to 
four cups of flour, or till stiff enough to knead. When 
smooth let it rise till double, then shape, rise, and 
bake like ordinary rolls. Or less flour may be used 
and the mixture baked in muffin pans. 

Fried Rolls. 

Use a plain milk dough or the zwieback mixture. 
When light cut out with a spoon, drop into hot fat, and 
cook until brown. Or shape the rolls more regularly 
and leave them on the board till light enough to fry. 

Buns or Raised Doughnuts. 
Mix together one ounce of butter, one-quarter cup 



32 Home Science Cook Book. 

of sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, one cup of scalded 
milk, one-quarter to one yeast cake (according to 
time), and one pint of flour. Let rise till double in 
bulk. 

Add one-half cup of sugar mixed with one-quarter 
teaspoon of spice, one-quarter cup of fruit, and nearly 
one pint of flour. Knead well, let rise again, shape, 
put in pans, let rise, and bake. 

Omitting the fruit and adding one egg, the same 
dough may be used for raised doughnuts. 

Zwieback. 

Scald one cup of milk ; when lukewarm dissolve in 
it one yeast cake, half a teaspoon of salt, and flour 
enough to make a soft dough. Let it rise until light ; 
then stir in one quarter cup of melted butter, one- 
quarter cup of sugar, and one egg unbeaten. 

Mix thoroughly and add enough more flour to shape 
it into a loaf. Let it rise in the pan until very light, 
then bake in a quick oven, and when nearly done 
brush over with sugar dissolved in milk. When cold 
cut in one-half-inch thick slices and let them color and 
dry in a moderate oven. 

German Coffee Bread. 

Cream two- thirds cup of white sugar, one egg, and 
two ounces of butter. Work into this one pint of light 
dough, such as is ready to mold into loaves. The 
secret of success is in the thorough mixing. The 
result must be a creamy, smooth batter, only to be 
had by beating. Pour into a shallow buttered cake 
pan. Let rise again. Sift sugar and cinnamon over 
the top. Bake twenty minutes and eat warm. 



Bread. 33 

Cheese Rolls. 

Into light bread dough work a tablespoon of butter. 
Make into round cakes with a biscuit cutter. Spread 
grated cheese over the tops freely ; double and bake 
when very light again. These are particularly nice 
when small and crisp, and served with salad. 

Raised Dumplings for Stews. 

Bread dough made with shortening and well risen 
may be cut in small shapes and cooked with a meat 
stew for dumplings. Let them rise a little while after 
shaping, put into the boiling stew, cover closely, and 
cook fifteen minutes. 

Fried Bread Sticks. 

These are made by shaping the raised bread dough 
into small pipe- stem rolls. After they have risen 
again till very light, drop them into hot fat and cook 
till brown. 

Raised Griddle Cakes. 

Mix one cup of warm milk, one tablespoon of butter, 
one teaspoon of sugar, one half teaspoon of salt, one- 
fourth yeast cake, and one cup of flour. Let it rise 
over night; in the morning add one egg, yolk and 
white beaten separately. 

Buckwheat flour, or half corn-meal and half white 
flour, may be used in the same way. 



34 Home Science Cook Book. 



Quick Doughs. 

General Directions for Mixing. 

Arrange fire and dishes for cooking, measure every- 
thing before mixing any, sift dry materials, add liquids, 
mix thoroughly, and cook immediately. 

Two or three even teaspoons of baking powder 
usually are equal in leavening force to one rounding 
teaspoon of cream of tartar and one-half level teaspoon 
of soda, or to one-half teaspoon of soda when used with 
one cup of sour milk or one cup of molasses, and changes 
in recipes may be made accordingly. 

The use of sour milk has been condemned because 
of the tendency to use an excess of soda with it. But 
thick, sour milk is not so variable in acidity after all, 
and the use of one even teaspoon of soda with each 
pint of such milk is safe and satisfactory. Soda is 
cheap and sour milk is also, while cream of tartar and 
baking powder are expensive, so those whose income 
is limited do well to master this process. 

For the convenience of the average family the fol- 
lowing recipes all have a pint of flour or meal as their 
basis. Smaller or larger quantities are easily made. 

Once the general proportions and the office of each 
ingredient are learned, it is easy to make many varia- 
tions. The process of mixing is practically the same 
in all cases. The ingredients are mentioned in the 
order in which they are to be put together. The flour 
is sifted before measuring and sifted again to mix the 
other materials with it. 



Quick Doughs. 35 

Butter, beef drippings, or other fats may be used 
according to the appropriation for expenses. 

Biscuit. 

Sift together one pint of flour, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, one-half teaspoon of salt. Rub one 
tablespoon of shortening into the flour. Mix as soft as 
can be handled with two-thirds cup of milk or water. 
Roll, cut, and bake. 

Quick Dumplings for Stews. 

Leave out the shortening in the biscuit dough and 
use enough milk to mix soft ; drop from the spoon into 
the boiling stew, cover, and cook rapidly for ten minutes. 

Muffins. 

Sift together one pint of flour, two teaspoons of 
baking powder, one-half teaspoon of salt, and one 
tablespoon of sugar. Add one tablespoon of shorten- 
ing melted, one beaten egg, and one cup of milk. Mix 
thoroughly and bake quickly. 

Blueberry Muffins. 

Take the same quantities as for muffins, but use a 
little less milk and add one cup of blueberries. 

Chopped apple may also be used in muffins. 

Tea Muffins. 

Use one-fourth cup each of sugar and shortening 
and two or three eggs and proceed as in plain muffins. 

Rye Muffins. 

Sift together one cup each of rye meal and white 
flour, two teaspoons of baking powder (or one of cream 



36 Home Science Cook Book. 

of tartar and one-half of soda), one-half teaspoon of 
salt, and one tablespoon of sugar. Mix with one 
beaten egg and one cup of milk. 

For Graham Muffins substitute graham meal for rye. 

Graham Drop Cakes. 

Sift together one and one-half cups of graham meal, 
one-half teaspoon each of salt and soda, one-fourth cup 
of brown sugar. Mix into a stiff batter with one scant 
cup of sour milk. Drop by spoonfuls on a buttered 
pan and bake about fifteen minutes. 

Drop Doughnuts. 

Sift together one pint of flour, two teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, one-half teaspoon of salt. Add one-half 
cup of sugar, a little spice, and mix into a soft dough 
with one beaten egg and one-half cup of milk. Flavor 
with cinnamon or nutmeg. Drop by teaspoonfuls into 
hot fat and fry as usual. This quantity should make 
about two dozen balls. 

Shortcake. 

Sift together one pint of flour, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, and one-half teaspoon of salt. Rub 
in one-fourth cup of butter. Mix into a soft dough 
with about two-thirds cup of sweet milk. Divide 
into two parts, roll each to fit the pan, put in one, 
brush with melted butter, and place the other on top, 
or bake in two pans if liked more crusty. If to be 
baked in a square pan, with a knife dipped in melted 
butter carefully cut across the cake twice each way, 
dividing it into nine portions. When baked each 
division should separate readily. Bake twenty 
minutes or more. 



Quick Doughs. 37 

Individual shortcakes are made by cutting like 
biscuits and putting together with butter between. 

Scones. 

Make a rich biscuit dough. Roll out to fit a round 
tin. After the dough is in the pan divide in quarters, 
cutting almost through it. Glaze with yolk of egg 
and sugar. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Roll biscuit or shortcake dough till one -half inch 
thick, or divide in six portions, and pat each into a 
round shape. In each fold an apple cored and pared. 
Steam or bake forty-five minutes, or till the apples 
are soft. Other fruits can be substituted for apples. 

Prune Loaf. 

One-half pound of prunes; wash, soak, cook in 
little water until tender enough to remove the stones. 
Cut each prune into quarters and add one-half cup of 
sugar. Make dough as for baking-powder biscuits; 
roll out thin and so that the length is twice the 
breadth. Spread the prunes over this, keeping within 
an inch of the edges. Roll like jelly cake, pressing 
the ends firmly so that the fruit cannot escape. Place 
the roll in one side of a granite pan, pour over and 
around it one-half cup of sugar, a pint of hot water, 
and a tablespoon of butter. Bake, basting frequently 
and watching closely to prevent burning. Add more 
water as needed. Serve with its own sauce or with 
the addition of cream. 

Any fruit may be substituted for the prunes. 

This may be cut in slices, like the Swedish rolls, 
before baking when time is limited. 




38 Home Science Cook Book. 

Surprise Rolls. 

Make a shortcake dough. Mince cooked chicken and 
season highly, mix with a thick white sauce ; form in 
small finger-sized rolls. Wrap each with a thin layer of 
dough ; bake in hot oven ; serve hot or cold. 

Brown Bread. 

Sift together one pint of corn-meal, one pint of rye 
or entire wheat, or one cup of rye and one cup of white 
flour, one teaspoon of salt, and two teaspoons of soda ; 
then mix with one pint of sour milk and one cup of 
molasses and add a little water if too stiff. 

Grease coffee or baking-powder cans, fill them 
about half full with the batter, cover, and steam three 
hours or longer. 

Corn Cake. 

Sift together three-quarters cup each of corn-meal 
and flour, one-half teaspoon each of salt and soda, and 
one tablespoon of sugar. Mix with one beaten egg 
and one cup thick sour milk. Bake about thirty min- 
utes in one pan, or less time in muffin pans. 

Corn Dodgers. 

Scald corn-meal with an equal bulk of boiling water, 
salt slightly, and spread in a thin layer in a well- 
buttered shallow pan. Put bits of butter on top, and 
bake for half an hour or more. 

Scalded Corn Cake. 

Scald one cup of corn-meal with one cup of boiling 
milk or water, spread one tablespoon of melted butter 
over the top, and leave over night. Then mix with 
one tablespoon of sugar, two beaten eggs, three- 



Quick Doughs. 39 

fourths cup of thick sour milk, and sift in one cup of 
flour with one-half teaspoon of salt and one-half tea- 
spoon of soda. Bake in muffin pans or in a thin sheet 
for half an hour. 

Southern Corn Bread. 

Mix one and three-fourths cups of white corn-meal, 
one-half teaspoon of soda, one-half teaspoon of salt, one 
egg, one cup of buttermilk, and two tablespoons of 
melted butter. Pour in a hot greased pan, and cook in 
moderate oven for thirty minutes, or until a rich brown. 

Oatmeal Gems. 

Pour one cup of boiling water over one cup of oat- 
meal, or any of the steam-cooked cereals, and let it 
stand over night. Mix one cup of bread flour, two 
level teaspoons of baking powder, and one-half teaspoon 
of salt, and in the morning add this to the soaked 
meal. Add milk enough to make a batter stiff enough 
to drop from the spoon. Bake in hot buttered gem 
pans about twenty minutes. 

Egg Bread, Batter Bread, and Spoon Bread. 

One of the delicious things in Southern cookery is 
known by these names in different sections of the 
South. It offers a method of using left-overs in the 
line of rice, grits, and cereals. Scald a cup of white 
corn-meal with one cup of boiling water. Add half a 
teaspoon of salt, a cup of cooked rice, grits, or any 
other cereal, three eggs well beaten, two teaspoons of 
baking powder, one and a half cups of milk. Bake in 
an earthen dish until firm like a baked custard. It is 
sometimes prepared in a thin sheet, but is usually two 
inches thick. 



40 Home Science Cook Book. 

Pop-Overs. 

Into a bowl put one cup of flour, one cup of milk, 
one egg, and a saltspoon of salt. Put in the egg 
beater and stir gently for a moment ; then beat vigor- 
ously until perfectly mixed and full of air. Have the 
gem pans already buttered, and fill them even full 
with the mixture ; bake in a moderate oven for a half 
hour or longer. Each cake should be at least twice as 
large as when it went into the oven, and dry and crisp 
all over. If taken out too soon they will shrivel and 
be moist and flabby. 

For variety use half rye or all entire wheat flour in 
place of white flour. 

Put a quarter of an apple or a piece of banana into 
each pop-over cup before putting into the oven. The 
batter will rise around and nearly cover the fruit. 

These may be served with sauce for dessert. 

Maize Muffins. 

Beat together three-fourths cup of flour, one salt- 
spoon of salt, one egg, one cup of milk. Last, add 
one cup of cerealine or cream of maize. Bake in pop- 
over cups or round gem pans. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Beat together till smooth one cup of milk, one-half 
cup of flour, two eggs, and one-fourth teaspoon of salt. 
Bake like pop-overs in cups, or in one shallow pan, 
basting several times with the fat from roast beef. 
Serve with the meat. 

For a breakfast or luncheon dish add one-half cup of 
bits of meat from a roast and serve with any left-over 
gravy or tomato sauce. 



Quick Doughs. 41 

Graham Gems. 

The oven must be considerably hotter than for any 
other cooking. Place iron gem pans on this hot stove, 
and while they are heating, stir the graham flour and 
water (and a pinch of salt added) constantly and 
vigorously, mixed to about the consistency of fritter- 
batter. When the pans are so hot as to melt immedi- 
ately a 'bit of butter dropped in them, turn in the 
batter, filling each pan even full. Then wait till 
the batter begins to form into little bubbles around 
the edge of each gem pan. Just when bubbles en- 
tirely surround each pan, without stirring or shaking 
the bread mixture in the least, transfer the pans to 
the hot oven. There is hardly any danger of having 
an oven too hot. After this the oven must not be 
opened for twenty minutes, because it is heat that 
raises the bread, and it must not be slackened. Prac- 
tise will do much for a graham roll maker. 

Rhode Island Corn Cakes. 

Use the fine white Rhode Island corn-meal, not gran- 
ulated. Just dampen with boiling water, first mixing 
in a little salt, one saltspoon to one cup of meal. Thin 
with cold milk, but have them stiff enough to keep 
their shape on the griddle. Drop in small oval forms 
in a hot griddle, greased with butter or salt pork fat. 
When brown put a bit of fat on top and turn over, and 
when done place them in the oven a few minutes. If 
mixed just right, they will puff up and stay up, and be 
very light and sweet. 

Griddle Cakes. 

Into one pint of sifted flour mix one-half teaspoon 



42 Home Science Cook Book. 

of salt, three teaspoons of baking powder, and one 
teaspoon of sugar. Beat two eggs until they are very 
light, turn into them one cup of milk, but do not stir 
much, as that destroys the lightness of the eggs. Stir 
the egg and milk mixture into the flour, add two 
tablespoons of melted butter, beat well, and then add 
enough more milk to make a batter about like thick 
cream. Beat the batter vigorously and especially be- 
fore each frying. 

To secure the crisp edges and texture of a regular 
fritter, use considerable fat and fry the cakes in an 
ordinary spider, dropping the batter from t a spoon in 
small portions into the hot fat ; but for the smooth, 
delicate, brown surface similar to that of an oven- 
baked cake, use a large griddle, which must be made 
uniformly hot, and then rub the surface all over with 
a bit of ham or pork rind held on a fork, leaving just 
the merest film of grease. This coating of grease, 
being free from moisture that always accompanies 
butter, will form no steam bubbles, which, as they 
burst, leave a bare spot on the griddle and an un- 
browned spot on the cake. Drop the batter from the 
end of the spoon, making the cakes round and of uni- 
form size. When full of bubbles and before they 
look dry on the top, turn them over with a cake turner 
or a broad knife. If any portion of the batter spatters 
out on the edge, push it immediately up to the cake 
that there may be no waste and no ragged edges. 
When they stop puffing, they are usually brown and 
done. 

With a new soapstone griddle, no greasing will 
be required. Many people prefer to rub a common 
griddle with salt, using no fat whatever, and if the 



Quick Doughs. 43 

griddle is smooth and hot, the cakes will not stick, but 
they lack the flavor which the fat gives them. 
Serve with butter or maple or fruit sirup. 

Steamed Bread. 

Put stale bread, loaves, slices, rolls, or muffins, in a 
steamer over rapidly boiling water. Be careful in 
removing the cover not to let water drip on the bread. 

Another way of reheating bread is to dip the crust 
of the bread quickly in water, and put in a covered pan 
in the oven for a few minutes. 

Toast. 

Cut stale bread in thin, even slices, not over one- 
fourth inch thick. Place them in a fine wire broiler, 
and move the broiler over a clear fire, or under the 
broiling burner of a gas range, and turn often, until 
the bread is a uniform golden-brown color. Let the 
moisture dry out before the outside browns, then the 
toast is crisp throughout and does not become flabby 
afterward. 

Toast for Garnishing. 

Cut the bread into rounds with a large cake-cutter 
before toasting, or remove the crusts and cut into 
oblong pieces ; or cut into small squares or diamonds. 
For a border, cut, after toasting, into inch and a half 
squares, and then diagonally into triangles. 

Rye Cakes in Cream. 

Make a quick biscuit of half rye meal. Roll thin, 
cut in squares, and bake. Split while warm and put 
into thickened cream or a white sauce, and serve. 



44 Home Science Cook Book. 

Milk Toast. 

Put a pint of milk into a large saucepan, add an 
ounce of butter, and let the milk scald. Have the 
bread toasted till very dry, but not burned. Put the 
slices in the milk and heat till quite soft. Remove to 
a dish and pour the milk over them. 

Cream Toast. 

Make a thin, white sauce. Dip the dry toast quickly 
in hot salted water or milk ; put it in a deep dish and 
pour the thickened cream over each slice. Or thicken 
hot, thin cream with flour mixed smooth with cold 
cream. Use one tablespoon of flour for each cup of 
cream and cook at least ten minutes. 

Rye and graham muffins, corn cake, and brown 
bread may be cut in convenient pieces, toasted, and 
served in a white sauce. These should not stand long 
after dipping, as they incline to crumble more than 
raised bread. 

Brewis. 

Use stale bread, white or brown, or a mixture. 
Prepare in a buttered saucepan, or a pudding dish in 
the oven, or in a double boiler. Cut or break the 
bread in convenient pieces, cover with milk, and cook 
gently until soft, adding more milk as it is absorbed. 
Use butter and salt if needed. 

The shape of the bread will be less distinct than in 
toast, but should not be too pasty. 

Continental Toast. 

Beat one or two eggs for each cup of milk and add 
one-fourth teaspoon of salt and one teaspoon of 
sugar. Dip slices of stale bread in this, and pile 



Quick Doughs. 45 

them up on a plate. When all are done, moisten any 
hard parts again. If soaked too much the slices will 
break, for this reason the pieces should not be very 
large. Brown one side and then the other on a hot 
greased griddle or frying-pan. Serve in place of 
griddle cakes. 

Crumbs. 

For bread sauce and for most puddings the white 
portion of a stale loaf is preferred. Remove the crusts 
and grate the loaf, or break in sections and rub them 
together. The crusts and odds and ends not suitable 
for croutons should be dried, rolled, and sifted. The 
oven should be moderate so that the crusts will be- 
come crisp without browning. Two grades of crumbs 
should be kept fine ones for croquettes, and coarser 
ones for stuffing and escallops. A meat chopper will 
grind the bread fine with less effort than a rolling 
pin. Bread-crumbs are best for croquettes and most 
stuffings. Cracker crumbs are preferable for the top 
of anything which must cook a long time. 

Buttered Crumbs. 

Melt one to two ounces of butter for each cup of 
crumbs. Stir the crumbs in the butter till it is all 
absorbed and every crumb has a share. 

Croutons. 

These should be made from stale bread, cut into 
slices about one-third of an inch thick, then into dice. 
They may be browned in the oven or cooked in 
butter in a frying-pan, tossing them about until 
slightly browned or fried in deep fat. 



46 Home Science Cook Book. 



Eggs. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Put eggs in a saucepan of cold water and heat. By 
the time the water boils the eggs will be ready to eat. 

Or put the eggs in boiling water and place the dish 
containing them where the water will keep hot, but can- 
not boil. In five minutes the white will be soft and jelly 
like. In ten minutes the yolk will begin to be firm. 
Water at 180 is about right for cooking eggs. Much 
depends upon the age of the egg. The fresher the 
egg, the longer it takes to reach a given degree of 
hardness. 

For hard eggs cook in water of moderate heat for 
half an hour or longer. 

Poached or Dropped Eggs. 

Break raw eggs and turn into a cup without break- 
ing the yolk. Then slip gently into a shallow pan of 
salted boiling water. A small quantity of lemon juice 
or vinegar in the water aids in keeping the egg in 
good shape. With a sgpon dip some of the water 
over the egg that it may be cooked evenly on top. 
When the white is firm take up the eggs with a skim- 
mer and place on a slice of toast. Egg poachers or 
muffin rings are used for the same purpose. 

Eggs may be poached in milk, or in soup stock, 
tomato sauce, or any gravy which afterwards is 
poured over the toast on which they are to be served. 

The toast may be spread with melted cheese or with 
any minced meat or fish, such as anchovy paste. A 
poached egg may be served on a fishball. 



47 

Eggs Poached with Tomatoes. 

Cut in small pieces one onion and three tomatoes 
and a small green pepper. Cover with water and stew 
until well done. Strain through a colander and add 
a teaspoon of sugar, with salt to taste. 

Pour this into a frying-pan. Break five eggs care- 
fully into the hot liquid. When the eggs are suffi- 
ciently firm, serve all together. 

Baked Dropped Eggs. 

Cut stale bread into slices three-fourths of an inch 
thick, then cut into rounds with a large round cutter, 
having as many pieces of bread as the number of 
eggs to be cooked. From the center of the bread cut 
out a little of the soft part, and toast the round pieces 
a golden brown on each side. Butter a large shallow 
plate and put in the toasted rounds ; break an egg into 
the center of each piece of toast, being careful not to 
break the yolk. Sprinkle each egg with salt and 
pepper, put on small pieces of butter, and pour a little 
cream or milk between the rounds of bread. Bake 
until the egg is cooked, in a moderate oven. 

Shirred Eggs. 

Butter egg shirrers or ramekins. Break an egg 
into each, season slightly, and bake until the whites 
are firm. The dishes may be lined with crumbs or 
chopped ham or cheese or parsley before putting in 
the eggs. 

Eggs Baked with Cheese. 

Spread slices of toast, slightly hollowed out in the 
centre, with grated cheese, seasoned, and moistened 
with milk. Break an egg into a cup, and turn on 



48 Home Science Cook Book. 

each slice, keeping the yolk whole. Put a bit of butter 
or a teaspoon of cream on top, and bake for eight or 
ten minutes. 

Baked Eggs with Ham. 

Into one cup of thick white sauce stir one cup of 
finely minced ham. Add a little pepper, and salt if 
needed. Heap this in the center of a hot platter. 
Heat and butter six small earthen cups, break an egg 
into each, and bake in a pan of hot water until the egg 
is firm. Slip them out of the cups around the meat. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Allow one teaspoon of butter to each egg, and melt 
it in an omelet pan. When hot, break and slip in the 
eggs and let them cook till firm, turning when half 
done. Do not allow them to brown. Add a little 
more butter if needed to prevent the egg from stick- 
ing. Serve with brown butter sauce. 

Fried Eggs. 

Use a quantity of ham or bacon fat. Break the 
eggs into a saucer, slip them in and dip the fat over 
them just as water is dipped over poached eggs. 

Eggs Scrambled with Onion. 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in the saucepan, and 
cook in it one tablespoon of finely chopped onion 
directly over the fire till yellow. Have three or four 
eggs slightly beaten with one-half cup of milk, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Turn this mixture 
into the butter and onion, set the pan over hot water, 
and cook till thickened, stirring often. The flakes of 
yellow and white may be distinct or the whole blended. 



Eggs. 49 

The onion may be omitted, or other flavors substituted, 
such as asparagus, peppers, mushrooms, green peas, 
etc. 

Coddled Eggs. 

Allow one-fourth cup of milk for each beaten egg, 
and cook together in a double boiler, like a soft cus- 
tard, till it thickens. Then season and serve on but- 
tered toast. 

Creamed Eggs. 

Have ready one cup of hot white sauce seasoned as 
desired. Mix in the beaten yolks of three eggs and 
cook over hot water till it begins to thicken, then fold 
in the egg whites beaten stiff. Cook till firm, and 
serve hot, heaped on slices of buttered toast. 

Goldenrod Eggs. 

Chop the whites of three or four hard-boiled eggs, 
and mix with one cup of white sauce, seasoning as 
desired. Pour over strips or rounds of toast. Rub 
the yolks of the eggs through a strainer over the 
whole. 

Eggs in Cases. 

Line buttered cups with a paste made of chopped 
cooked meat or fish, bread-crumbs, milk, and beaten 
egg. Drop a raw egg in the center of each, cover with 
the paste, and put the cups in a steamer to cook for half 
an hour or till the eggs- are firm. Turn out of the 
molds and serve hot. Hard-boiled eggs may be used 
as a garnish. A white sauce may or may not be served 
with these. Chicken, veal, lamb, ham, or fish can be 
used in this fashion. 



50 Home Science Cook Book. 

Egg Timbales. 

Beat four eggs, mix with one cup of milk or stock, 
season highly with salt, pepper, and onion juice. 
Strain into small molds and steam or bake until firm. 
Turn out and serve hot with a tomato or mushroom 
sauce. 

Meat or Egg Timbales. 

Fill buttered molds lightly with alternate layers of 
meat and stale bread-crumbs. Gradually pour in the 
egg timbale mixture and cook until firm. Turn out 
and serve with a sauce. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Boil six eggs thirty minutes. Remove the shells 
and cut carefully lengthwise. Remove the yolks and 
put the two whites of each egg together that they may 
not become mixed. Rub tlje yolks through a gravy 
strainer and add to them three teaspoons of cold 
boiled ham chopped fine and mashed to a powder, a 
few drops of onion juice or any favorite ketchup or 
sauce, and enough melted butter to moisten the mix- 
ture to a smooth paste. Fill the whites just level with 
the mixture, press the two halves together, being care- 
ful to fit them just where they were cut. Add the 
remainder of the yolk mixture to a white sauce. Pour 
this over the eggs, sprinkle lightly with fine, buttered 
cracker crumbs and bake a few minutes or until the 
crumbs are slightly colored. 

Egg Baskets. 

Shell hard-boiled eggs, cut a slice from either end, 
and cut in halves crosswise. Rub the yolks smooth, add 
an equal bulk of fine chopped meat or fish. Moisten 



Eggs. 51 

with melted butter ; season with salt, pepper, mustard, 
etc. Shape in balls like yolks and place in the baskets. 
Serve with white sauce and garnish with toast-points ; 
or use cold for salads or for picnics. 

Curried Eggs. 

Dip rounds of toast in a curry sauce ; on each slice 
put half a hard-boiled egg cut lengthwise, cut side 
down, and pour the remainder of the sauce over the 
eggs. 

Eggs with Fish. 

Take what is left of boiled or baked fresh fish, re- 
move the bones and skin, and warm it in hot milk 
enough to moisten. Turn it out on a platter. Poach 
three or four eggs and lay them on the fish. Mix one 
tablespoon of chopped parsley, a few grains of cayenne, 
and a little salt with two tablespoons of butter melted. 
Pour this evenly over the eggs, and serve at once and 
very hot. 

Scotch Eggs. 

Shell six hard-boiled eggs and cover with a paste 
made of one-half cup of stale bread-crumbs cooked soft 
in one-half cup of milk, one cup of lean boiled ham 
minced very fine and seasoned with cayenne and one- 
fourth teaspoon of mustard and one raw egg beaten. 

Roll slightly in fine bread-crumbs and fry in hot 
deep fat a delicate brown. These are nice for picnics, 
or to serve with salads. 

Egg Cutlets. 

Boil eggs twenty minutes, and when quite cold shell 
them and cut in two lengthwise. Have ready one 



52 Home Science Cook Book. 

tablespoon of butter melted and on a hot plate, add 
to it a little salt and pepper ; one egg beaten with one 
tablespoon of cold water on another plate, and fine dry 
bread-crumbs on still another. Dip the egg halves 
first in the melted butter, then in egg, then in crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. Serve with curry sauce. 

Omelet. 

Beat two eggs slightly ; add one saltspoon of salt 
and half as much pepper, and two tablespoons of milk, 
water, stock, or fruit juice. Pour into the omelet pan 
in which one tablespoon of butter has been melted. 
Shake gently, and with a fork or palette knife roll or 
scrape toward one side of the pan. When creamy turn 
on to the other side, and when slightly colored, serve 
at once. 

Omelet Souffle or Puffy Omelet. 

Separate the yolks and whites of two eggs. Beat 
the whites stiff, add the yolks and beat again ; add two 
tablespoons of milk, season with salt and pepper and 
pour into a small frying-pan in which one teaspoon of 
butter has been melted. Shake the pan gently to pre- 
vent sticking ; when firm, fold and serve immediately. 

Variations in Omelets. 

From one-fourth to one-half cup of any hot meat or 
vegetable minced and seasoned may be mixed with an 
omelet before cooking, or be folded into it just before 
serving. 

Asparagus Omelet. 

The tender tops are preferred, and after cooking 
should be drained and heated in butter. 

Use cauliflower, celery, etc., in the same way. 



Eggs. 53 

Bacon Omelet. 

Cook an omelet in bacon fat instead of butter, and 
serve, garnished with crisp curls of bacon. 

Bread Omelet. 

Soak one-half cup of crumbs in one-half cup of milk, 
and mix with the eggs before cooking. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Parmesan, Gruyere, or any dry cheese may be 
grated and sprinkled over the omelet before folding. 

Cheese may be added to the bread omelet. 

Creamy Omelet. 

Mix one-half cup of white sauce with an omelet before 
cooking, and pour another half cup around it before 
serving. 

Ham Omelet. 

Sprinkle fine chopped ham over the egg mixture as 
soon as it is put in the frying-pan. 

Jelly Omelet. 

Sweeten the omelet slightly when mixing, and 
spread one or two tablespoons of warm jelly over it 
before folding 

Macedoine Omelet. 

Have ready a mixture of vegetables, hot and 
seasoned, and fold into an omelet. 

Oyster Omelet. 

Parboil, drain, and cut up the oysters, and serve in 
and around the omelet. 



54 Home Science Cook Book. 

Parsley Omelet. 

Put one tablespoon chopped parsley in the omelet 
before cooking 1 . 

Spanish Omelet. 

Fold in a mixture of tomato, mushrooms, and green 
peppers stewed in a little butter, or serve with a 
Spanish sauce. 

Tomato Omelet. 

Fry three slices of bacon crisp, remove it, and in 
the same fat cook one sliced onion until light brown. 
Beat three eggs slightly, season with cayenne, add 
three tablespoons of thick stewed tomato, the fried 
onions, and the crisp bacon, finely crumbled. Turn 
into a greased omelet pan, and pick it up with a fork 
as the egg thickens, then let it color slightly, roll over, 
and turn out on a hot platter. 



Other recipes for dishes suitable for breakfast will 
be found under " Luncheon " and under " Dinner." 



Luncheon. 



Luncheon. 



Luncheon is the meal at which to use up left-overs. 
Ability to use left-overs wisely indicates wide culinary 
knowledge on the part of housekeeper or cook. The 
second appearance of any article of food should not 
suggest the first, nor should much time or new 
material be expended in its preparation. 

It is not necessary to have a different recipe for 
each special kind of meat, fish, or vegetable, but rather 
to classify all recipes under a few heads, and then 
adapt the material at hand to the general process. 

Soups, stews, hashes, scallops, croquettes, fritters, 
salads, timbales, and souffles are standard processes, 
and once the general formula is learned almost any 
material may be used for each. 

It is seldom wise for a household employing few 
helpers to buy new material to convert into elaborate 
"made dishes," but often from several bits an at- 
tractive entre'e may be evolved with little labor. 

If the material is limited it may be extended mar- 
velously by the judicious use of milk, eggs, crumbs, 
and seasoning. 

Unless there is milk or stock, few soups are 
possible. 

Stews require time for preparation, salads imply the 
use of something green, fritters and croquettes mean 
frying, and souffles are undesirable when eggs are 
four cents apiece. Thus we may select the one dish 
best adapted to our conditions. 

57 



58 Home Science Cook Book. 



Emergency Luncheons. 

SOMETIMES we read of menus evolved under pres- 
sure, or at short notice, from the contents of cup- 
boards which rival Mother Hubbard's in barrenness. 
Many of these feasts would be impossible without the 
lamp of a genie or the aid of a fairy godmother. 

A cold chicken or a portion of a leg of mutton is 
usually an essential upon which to build such repasts, 
but there may be occasions when even such viands are 
wanting. For her own peace of mind every house- 
keeper should be prepared to meet the common emer- 
gencies which may be the result of heavy storms, 
sudden company, or the failure of expected supplies. 

One shelf of the storeroom (not too easily accessible) 
should contain a dozen or more assorted cans, chosen 
with special reference to the preparation of a full 
meal on short order. With these should be kept a card 
of plain directions, for one's ideas sometimes vanish on 
such occasions. This shelf should be kept strictly for 
emergency use, and restocked as soon as exhausted. 

Such a resort is not essential for the city house- 
keeper, for the corner grocery will supply her needs at 
short notice ; but it is a great comfort in the country 
house, where the nearest grocery may be miles away, 
and its supplies not of the best. 

Some housekeepers pride themselves on never 
serving canned foods, considering their use an indica- 
tion of inefficiency. Others are not yet convinced of 
the wholesomeness of canned foods, and therefore 
decry their continual use. The cost of such foods of 



Emergency Luncheons. 59 

the best quality prevents their use in other house- 
holds. But none of these objections are valid in the 
case of emergencies. 

No one would claim that canned foods are to be 
chosen when fresh ones are available, but the ease 
in keeping them and quickness of preparation are 
great advantages at times. 

Among the most useful canned foods are the sal- 
mon, shrimp, and chicken for fish and flesh ; the corn, 
peas, tomatoes, and celery for vegetables; peaches, 
cherries, and grated pineapple for fruits. The shelf 
should be supplied with one or two cans of each class. 
Where milk is not easily procured, a few cans of 
evaporated cream are desirable. This is unsweetened, 
and therefore may be used for soups. Other things 
convenient in the household at any time, and which 
should be kept on hand, are prepared flour, gelatin, 
beef extract, dried herbs, mushroom ketchup, or some 
good table sauce. A cooked salad dressing may be 
kept indefinitely, while a mayonnaise is quickly pre- 
pared when eggs, oil, and vinegar are available. 

Butter, sugar, eggs, potatoes, crackers, stale bread, 
rice, and macaroni usually are to be found in a store 
closet otherwise bare. 

Canned salmon or chicken will give us croquettes 
or a casserole with rice, or may be served with a curry 
sauce in a border of rice, or with a cream sauce on 
toast. Canned chicken soup may be served as it 
comes, or used like stock in more elaborate soups. 

Peas may be served plain or sifted, and made into a 
chartreuse or timbale, or into a cream soup. Aspara- 
gus may be used in the same ways. 

The tomato can is one of our most faithful allies. 



60 Home Science Cook Book. 

It may give us a plain tomato soup, or the mock 
bisque, or a sauce to serve with rice, macaroni, or 
meat, or, combined with gelatin, we have the tomato 
jelly salad, available when green salads are not. 

With a supply of canned fruit and prepared flour a 
wide range of desserts is possible. The prepared flour 
may be obtained in small packages, or may be made at 
home by mixing the usual proportions of flour and 
baking powder. Then it is easy to have steamed roly 
poly pudding, fruit dumplings, and shortcakes. 

By the substitution of the strained fruit pulp and 
juice, or the grated pineapple for orange juice in an 
orange jelly or charlotte, we may obtain several 
varieties of fruit sponges or jellied fruits. 

Thus it is easy to see how our emergency shelf may 
provide several different menus as below. The last 
probably requires more time for preparation than is 
usually at our command in most emergencies, but 
serves to show the possibilities of our dozen tin cans. 

Consomme Royal. 

Salmon Loaf. 

Timbale of Green Peas. 

Peach Dumplings. 



Scalloped Salmon. 
Croustades of Asparagus. 

Chicken Salad. 
Pineapple Sponge. 



Green Pea Soup. 
Casserole of Chicken. 

Corn Pudding. 
Tomato Jelly Salad. 
Apricot Shortcake. 



The School Lunch Basket. 61 



The School Lunch Basket 

FEW public schools are as yet prepared to provide 
lunches on their premises, though several successful 
experiments will encourage other towns and cities to 
do likewise. But for many children in city and coun- 
try the distance from home is so great, or the school 
sessions so long, that the lunch basket is a necessity. 

The child who spends most of his day in a school- 
room, not too well ventilated, requires a lunch very dif- 
ferent from that he might take for an all day excursion 
in the open air. The food should be simple in quality 
and limited in quantity ; there should not be a great 
variety in any one lunch, but throughout the week or 
month there should be constant change, that nothing 
becomes monotonous. Too often the lunch baskets 
are filled with sweetmeats rather than substantial aia- 
ticles of food, yet it is as easy to prepare the latter 
as the former, and to put them in attractive form. 

The element of surprise will give relish to food that 
would be little appreciated otherwise, and may be 
managed by diplomacy on the part of the mother, or 
whoever packs the basket. Do not ask a child at the 
breakfast table what he will have for lunch, and then 
pack it before his eyes. 

A lunch basket must be well aired over night; if 
napkins and crumbs are allowed to remain in it until 
the next day's lunch is packed, odors and flavors will 
invariably remain to affect the next food packed in the 
basket. Nor is it appetizing to have one article of 
food placed in such close neighborhood to another that 



62 Home Science Cook Book. 

one adheres to the other, or the flavors mingle. Paraf- 
fin paper wrapped around sandwiches and cakes will 
keep each distinct, moist, and in good shape. 

It is quite possible to plan twenty different lunches 
and thus give a complete change every day in a 
month, and the order may be varied when the same 
articles are used a second time. 

Almost endless changes may be made in the filling 
of a sandwich. A cup custard is digestible and nourish- 
ing if not overcooked ; simple puddings may be cooked 
in cups, and thus be in convenient form for the lunch 
basket. Fruit, raw or cooked, is always in order, even 
in cold weather ; canned fruits are carried easily in a 
jelly tumbler; milk or lemonade maybe packed in a 
flask or wide-mouthed bottle with a screw top. Let 
the child have a special spoon, which is put back in the 
basket as soon as washed, then it is always ready and 
the family spoons do not get scattered. 

The lunches suggested will serve to show how great 
a variety may be obtained from ordinary materials. 

1. Corned beef, graham muffins, buns, milk. 

2. Egg sandwiches, wafers, glass of canned fruit* 

3. Buttered rolls, Dutch cheese, chocolate cake. 

4. Sliced ham, bread and butter, ginger cookies, 
baked apple. 

5. Fishballs, graham bread, bananas. 

6. Cheese sandwich, cookies, apples. 

7. Cold roast beef, bread and butter, molasses 
gingerbread. 

8. Potato salad, rolls, cup custard. 

9. Sandwiches (deviled ham), pickles, rice pudding. 
10. Tongue, rolls, apple turnovers. 



Sauces. 63 



Sauces. 

SAUCES are appetizing dressings for food, usually in 
liquid form. Fruit sauces have been considered in the 
previous pages and pudding sauces will follow the 
puddings. Meat and fish sauces are given here be- 
cause they are essential in preparing many of the made 
dishes suitable for luncheon. 

A " sauce " is possible when there is no gravy, for 
it may be made of any extraneous substances which 
will improve the flavor of the meat. 

Gravy, pure and simple, is the juice and fat of the 
meat extracted in the process of cooking and carving. 

The ingredients required for most sauces are fat, 
liquid, thickening, and seasoning. 

The fat may be that belonging to the meat, or 
butter, or oil, or cream. 

The liquid is stock from meat, fish, or fowl, or water, 
or milk, or fruit, or vegetable juices. 

The thickening may be flour, arrowroot, cornstarch, 
or bread-crumbs, or eggs, or vegetable pulps. 

The seasoning may include salt, the standard condi- 
ments, and many meat, fish, and vegetable flavors. In- 
stead of mingling too many, it is better to use to-day a 
pinch of sweet herbs, to-morrow some chopped onion, 
and next time a little parsley or strained tomato. 

There are two foundation sauces, the white and the 
brown, or as the French say, blanc and roux. 

It is a saving of labor to keep a jar of butter and flour 
cooked together to use in white sauce, and a smaller 
one of browned butter and flour for brown sauces. 



64 Home Science Cook Book. 

Sometimes the butter and flour are rubbed together 
uncooked, stirred into the hot milk in a double boiler, 
and cooked for at least fifteen minutes. 

When it is desirable to use less fat, the flour should 
be mixed with a little cold milk, and blended with the 
remainder, which should be scalding hot, and the 
whole thoroughly cooked. 

A general formula which will cover most sauces 
calls for two tablespoons of fat, two tablespoons of 
flour, and one cup of liquid. 

Vary according to circumstances; for example, if 
the liquid is cream use less fat; if it is tomato or 
onion pulp less flour will be required. 

Process of Mixing. 

Melt the fat in a suitable agate saucepan, put in 
.the flour, stir till the mixture bubbles all over, cool 
slightly, then gradually add the hot or cold liquid, 
beating in each addition before putting in more. 

Brown sauces are made by first browning the fat, 
then adding the flour and letting that brown, and 
when the right shade of color is gained adding the 
liquid. Butter browns sooner than other fats. A few 
drops of caramel will intensify the color if the liquid 
has been put in too soon. The proportion of flour 
should be slightly increased for the brown sauce. 
Constant beating renders the sauce smooth and glossy 
as nothing else can make it. 

If it should not be of the right thickness if too 
thin, cook slowly for a few moments; if thick, add 
more liquid. Bread flour thickens more than pastry 
flour, and corn-starch more than either. 

Any sauce or gravy thickens while cooling even 



Sauces. 65 

the short time between cooking and serving makes a 
noticeable difference. Allowance must also be made 
for the evaporation, which takes place if a saucepan of 
gravy is allowed to stand for a few moments uncov- 
ered, or even for making the sauce in a broad shallow 
pan, instead of a smaller deep one. 

Next, season it to suit the taste. Powdered season- 
ings, like salt, pepper, and mustard, may be mixed 
with the dry flour before it is put in the fat. Chopped 
onions may be fried in the fat before the flour is 
added. In general, it is better to season mildly than 
too highly. Such seasonings, as mushrooms, lobster, 
celery, shrimps, capers, etc., are previously prepared 
and put into the sauce not long before serving. 

French cooks often leave a sauce in a double boiler 
for an hour or more until much of the fat rises to the 
top and may be removed. 

White Sauce. 

Two tablespoons of butter and two tablespoons of 
flour to each cup of milk. Or one ounce of butter and 
one-half ounce of flour to each half pint of milk. One- 
fourth teaspoon of salt and a few grains of pepper. 

Thick Sauce for Croquettes or Souffles. 

Make like White Sauce using only one-half cup of 
milk. 

Thickening for Soups. 

Cook flour and fat together in the same way as for 
sauces, adding a double quantity of liquid or more 
when that is already thickened with the pulp of vege- 
tables, etc. 



66 Home Science Cook Book. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Use water or meat or fish broth instead of milk in a 
white sauce and add another equal portion of butter, 
cut in bits just before serving. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

For liquid, use half milk, half highly seasoned white 
stock and proceed as for white sauce. 

Brown Sauce. 

Melt and brown two tablespoons of butter, then 
brown in it three tablespoons of flour. Cool, and add 
one cup of brown stock. 

Cream Sauce. 

Thicken thin, hot cream by adding flour blended 
with a little cold milk, and cook twenty minutes in a 
double boiler. 

Allemand Sauce. 

Blend the yolk of an egg well beaten and one tea- 
spoon of lemon juice with Bechamel sauce. 

Asparagus Sauce. 

Add cooked asparagus heads to a white sauce, or use 
the pulp in place of part of the liquid. 

Caper Sauce. 

Mix one-fourth cup of capers with drawn butter. 

Chopped parsley, olives, or cucumber pickles may 
be used in the same way with white or brown sauces. 

Celery Sauce. 

Cook one-half cup of celery cut in dice till tender, 
and add to one cup of white sauce. 



Sauces. 67 

Curry Sauce. 

Use from one teaspoon to one tablespoon of curry, 
mixing it with the flour and butter of a white or 
brown sauce. 

Egg Sauce. 

Add to a white sauce or to drawn butter one or two 
hard-boiled eggs sliced or chopped. 

Maize Sauce. 

When ready to serve stir into a white sauce one cup 
of popped corn. Serve it with boiled fowl as a gar- 
nish around the bird, and put a sprinkling of dry 
popped corn on the edge. 

Lobster, Oyster, or Shrimp Sauce. 

To one cup of white sauce add one-half cup of the 
fish parboiled, and cut in small pieces. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

To either white or brown sauce add half a can of 
mushrooms, cut in slices or quarters. Fresh mush- 
rooms stewed may be used instead of canned ones. Or 
mushroom stalks may be stewed in stock which is 
strained and used for the sauce. 

Soubise Sauce. 

Use half milk or stock and half pulp from onions 
boiled and rubbed through a strainer. 

Spanish Sauce. 

In two ounces of butter cook until tender a small 
onion and a green pepper cut fine. Next add one- 
fourth cup of flour, and cook till frothy, and gradually 
mix with one pint of strained tomato, or half tomato 



68 Home Science Cook Book. 

and half stock. Season with salt and pepper. A few 
mushrooms may be added. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Melt one ounce of butter; add two tablespoons of 
flour, cook till it bubbles, stirring all the time, then 
add one cup of strained tomato, or half tomato and half 
stock. Season with salt, pepper, and onion juice. Or 
first cook a small onion chopped fine in the butter 
until it begins to grow yellow before adding the flour. 

Tomato Cream Sauce. 

Combine equal quantities of white and tomato 
sauces. Or add a speck of soda to one cup of sea- 
soned strained tomato, and with it reduce one cup of 
thick white sauce. 

Bread Sauce. 

Cook one-half cup of fine white stale bread-crumbs, 
a slice of onion, and three cloves in one and one-half 
cups of milk thirty minutes. Rub through a strainer 
if the crumbs are large. Add two tablespoons of 
butter, one-half teaspoon of salt and a speck of paprika. 
If too thick add a little more milk. 

Serve with game, eggs, etc. Garnish with one-half 
cup of coarse crumbs browned in butter. 

Maitre d' Hotel Butter. 

Cream an ounce of butter, and add a little salt and 
pepper, one teaspoon of fine chopped parsley, and one 
tablespoon of lemon juice. 

Brown Butter. 

Brown one ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and mix 



Sauces. 69 

with it one tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice, and 
one teaspoon of Worcestershire or similar sauce. Season 
with salt and pepper if needed. Pour over broiled fish. 

Dutch or Hollandaise Sauce. 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter. Beat yolks of two 
eggs in a saucepan, add two tablespoons of lemon 
juice and one-fourth cup of hot water, a saltspoon of 
salt, and a few grains of cayenne. Place the saucepan 
over the fire and stir constantly until it is quite thick. 
Then quickly stir in the creamed butter, and serve at 
once. 

Cucumber Sauce. 

Pare two cucumbers. Cut lengthwise in quarters, 
and cut off the edge containing the seeds if they are 
large ; then chop fine, and squeeze quite dry through 
cheese-cloth. Season with salt, paprika, and vinegar, 
and stir in one-half cup of thick cream whipped stiff. 
This is especially suitable for broiled fish. 

Horseradish Sauce. 

Make like the cucumber sauce, using one-fourth cup 
of grated horseradish in place of the cucumbers. Or 
add the horseradish to a Hollandaise sauce. Or the 
horseradish may be steeped in water or stock, which is 
used for a sauce. 

Pickle Sauce. 

Rub one ounce of butter to a cream. Add one-half 
teaspoon of salt, a speck of cayenne pepper, and one 
tablespoon of finely chopped sour pickle. If the pickle 
is not sour, add one tablespoon of vinegar. Spread 
the sauce over chops or fish. 



70 Home Science Cook Book. 

Bearnaise Sauce. 

Heat two tablespoons of tarragon vinegar and two 
of water, and steep in it a slice of onion. Cream one- 
half cup of butter till very light. Beat the yolks of 
four eggs slightly, add one- half teaspoon of salt and 
one saltspoon of paprika. Remove the onion and add 
the hot liquid to the egg. Cook over the fire, stirring 
constantly until it is thick and smooth. Lift it up 
frequently and stir well from the bottom. Often the 
heat in the thickened portion is sufficient to cook 
the remainder. When all thickened add the creamed 
butter, a fourth at a time, and stir each portion until 
well blended. Serve it on broiled steak or chops. 

For fish, add one tablespoon each of fine chopped 
onion, pickles, and parsley. 

This sauce may be used cold in place of mayonnaise 
for salads. 

Mint Sauce. 

Spearmint is preferred, though peppermint is some- 
times used. It should be young and fresh, well 
washed and drained, or dried on a cloth, and chopped. 
The chopped mint is then mixed with sugar, either 
brown, granulated, or powdered, the latter extracting 
the juices more rapidly. After this has stood for a 
time, vinegar is added, and the whole left for an hour 
or two before serving. 

These proportions may be varied: One-half cup of 
chopped mint, one-fourth cup of sugar, one cup of 
vinegar. 

Mixed Mustard for Cold Meats. 
Cream one ounce of butter and one tablespoon of 



Sauces. 71 

sugar. Add two tablespoons of mustard mixed with 
one tablespoon of salt. Beat one egg very light and 
beat it into the creamed mixture. Heat half a cup of 
vinegar to boiling point, stir it in quickly, and if it 
does not thicken the egg, set the bowl over boiling 
water a few minutes, stirring constantly until thick. 

Gravy for Roast Meats. 

Gravy for roast meats is made in the same manner 
as the standard sauce. 

If water has not been added during the process of 
roasting, the liquid in the pan when the meat is taken 
up consists of fat with a browned sediment. When a 
roast has been rubbed with flour, some of it is washed 
off by basting and settles with the juices under the fat. 
After the fat is drained off, a few spoonfuls of gravy 
may be made by the addition of a little water and no 
more thickening. Usually, however, more gravy is 
wanted. In that case after removing the bulk of the 
fat put a pint of hot water in the pan and let it stand 
on top of the stove for a few moments to soften any 
dried juices which may adhere ; then scrape off every 
bit, for this is the stock for the gravy. Put one-fourth 
cup of the warm fat in a saucepan, cook with it an 
equal amount of flour, and gradually add the stock, and 
season with salt and pepper. This is far easier than 
to make the gravy in the dripping pan, or to mix the 
flour with cold water. 



72 Home Science Cook Book. 



Soups. 

Two classes, milk soups and stock soups, will include 
practically all kinds that are served. 

Vegetables are combined with either milk or meat 
stock, and often with both. Occasionally, however, 
fruit or vegetable pulp and juice are used for a soup 
without either stock or milk. 

The many varieties of soup get their names from the 
different materials used to give flavor and substance. 

Stock is the broth resulting from long, gentle cook- 
ing in water of meat, poultry, or fish. Pieces of tough 
muscle and bone, such as shin, neck, ox tails, and 
calves' heads, which would be of little value if prepared 
in any other way, are used for soups. The meat must 
be free from taint and be scraped or wiped clean. If 
cut in small pieces, a greater proportion of nutriment 
will be extracted by the water, and raw meat will 
yield more than that already cooked. 

There should be about twice as much meat as bone. 
From one pint to one quart of cold water is used for 
each pound of meat and bone. About one-fourth 
pound of mixed vegetables is allowed for each pound 
of meat. These should be added with other season- 
ings after the meat has cooked for three hours. Mixed 
herbs and spices tied in a bit of cheese-cloth may be 
removed from the stock when enough flavor has been 
extracted. Salt may be put in at first. 

Smoked or salted or very fat meat in any large 
quantity is undesirable, although sometimes a bit of 
ham or bacon is used for flavor. 



Soups. 73 

The flesh of full grown animals and fowls gives more 
flavor and nutriment than that of younger ones, but 
the bones of young creatures yield a larger proportion 
of nutriment. 

For clear soups the froth should be removed from 
the top of the kettle as it rises, but when nutriment 
is the chief end, the stock should not be skimmed. 

Stock should cook slowly for four hours or more, 
and then be strained and cooled quickly. When a 
large quantity is made it should be put in quart jars 
and the layer of fat on top left undisturbed till the 
soup is used. Such stock will keep in a cool place 
for several days. 

Stock from Left-Overs. 

The raw or cooked bones and trimmings from roasts 
and steaks, the water in which fresh meat, poultry, 
rice, or any young vegetables have been cooked, and 
odd bits of parsley, celery, onion, and carrot may be 
combined to make a stock useful for sauces and hashes 
as well as for soups. 

The cooking of such soup stock may be intermittent ; 
to-day's remnants may be scalded and cooled, more 
added to-morrow, and the whole again scalded, and on 
the third day the cooking continued longer and the 
stock strained for use. 

Sauces and gravies are really condensed soups, and 
a cupful left over may be thinned with milk or water 
in which meat or vegetables were boiled, even that 
from young turnip, cabbage, or onions may be used. 

A chopped onion and grated carrot boiled in the 
water in which meat has been cooked, after the fat is 
removed, will provide an acceptable soup. 



74 Home Science Cook Book. 

Seasoning materials like curry and celery salt, used 
judiciously, will make savory soups from food mate- 
rial often wasted. 

Bouillon. 

This is generally made from beef, but sometimes 
from chicken or clams or oysters. It should be some- 
what like beef tea, hence little or no bone is used, and 
vegetables are often omitted and the meat is seldom 
browned. 

Four pounds of beef cut in small pieces are covered 
with three quarts of cold water, heated gradually and 
cooked slowly for four hours. During the last hour 
any desired seasoning is added. The liquid is strained 
and cooled and the fat removed before reheating. 

Bouillon is usually served in cups. Brown stock and 
consomme* are often substituted for bouillon proper. 

Brown Stock. 

Proceed as for bouillon, but use some bone and 
brown a little of the meat in the marrow from the 
bone. For four pounds of meat add one pound of 
mixed vegetables. These should be cut fine, and some 
of the onion and carrot browned in the hot fat with 
the meat. The preferred flavor is that of many vege- 
tables, herbs, and spices rather than of any one. 

White Stock. 

Chicken, veal, or white fish will yield a white stock. 
No seasonings that would discolor are used. 

Consomme. 

Make like brown stock, but use half veal and half 
beef, and cook a fowl on top. When tender, the fowl 



OF THE 

UNIVERSITY 

OF 

Soups. 75 

should be removed and used for salad, croquettes, or 
timbales. 

Part of the meat and vegetables may be browned, or 
some caramel added to give color and flavor. 

Consomme is usually cleared and served thin with a 
garnish of a single vegetable or combinations, or 
of noodles, royal custard, macaroni, or other Italian 
paste. 

The garnish gives the name to the consomme. 

Clear Soups. 

After stock has been strained and cooled, the por- 
tion next the fat often may be used without further 
clearing, while the thicker portion below may serve 
for brown sauces or thickened soups. 

Clearing soup is a wasteful process, but is sometimes 
desirable. 

After removing all fat, with each quart of cold stock 
put the white of one egg beaten slightly and more sea- 
soning if required. Sometimes one-fourth pound of 
raw beef chopped fine is used to aid in the clearing 
and to give a fresh flavor of meat. 

The kettle should be placed where it will heat gradu- 
ally and the mixture be stirred until near the boiling 
point, then allowed to cook gently for twenty minutes. 
If the stock boils rapidly the egg will be broken in 
small flakes, making the liquid cloudy instead of clear. 
All bits of solid substance should unite with the egg 
in a thick scum. After that is removed the stock 
should be strained through a cloth. 

Quick Bouillon. 

Tie in a piece of cheese-cloth a small onion cut fine, 



76 Home Science Cook Book. 

half a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, two or three cloves 
and peppercorns, and cook this in three pints of water 
for half an hour, or till reduced to one quart. Then 
add one teaspoon of beef extract, season with salt, and 
pour over the rice, royal custard, or other garnish 
placed in the tureen. 

Macaroni, Vermicelli, or Noodle Soup. 

Cook one- fourth cup of macaroni or other Italian 
paste until tender, then add to one quart of hot brown 
stock. 

Julienne Soup. 

To one quart of stock add one-half cup of mixed 
cooked vegetables cut in strips, cubes, or fancy shapes. 

Consomme Royale. 

Beat one egg slightly, add two tablespoons of milk, 
water, or stock, season with salt and pepper, and strain 
into a cup. Set in water and steam or bake until firm. 
Cool and cut in slices and then into fancy shapes, and 
add to one quart of consomme. This custard may be 
flavored with grated cheese or chopped parsley. Part 
of it may be colored green or pink, and thus give a 
varied garnish for the consomme. 

Cream Soups. 

These are a combination of the white or cream sauce 
with vegetable pulp or white stock, or with both. 

Such soups are rather heavy for dinner, but are 
suitable for the main dish at luncheon. 

The vegetables are cooked till soft, rubbed through 
a strainer, and, except potatoes, are used with part or 
all of the water in which they were cooked. 



Soups. 77 

The proportion of thickening varies with the density 
of the pulp used, but even beans and potatoes need a 
little flour to hold liquid and pulp smoothly together. 

A speck of soda mixed with the milk before scald- 
ing will prevent curdling after combining with other 
materials. To be at their best, cream soups should 
not be prepared long before serving. 

More hot milk may always be added if the soup is 
too thick. Beaten egg mixed in just before serving 
will remedy undue thinness. 

A garnish of unsweetened whipped cream may be 
put on the soup after it is in the tureen. 

The quantities given here are for one quart of soup, 
which will serve four or more persons. 

Cream of Asparagus. 

Reserve the tips from one can of asparagus, cover 
the stalks with water, add a slice of onion, and cook 
for half an hour ; then strain. There should be one 
pint or more of liquid. To this add one pint of white 
sauce, the tips of the asparagus, and salt and pepper 
as desired. Use fresh asparagus, after cooking in the 
same way. 

Carrots, Cauliflower, Celery, Corn, Cucumbers, Let- 
tuce, Mushrooms, Spinach, Summer Squash, Turnips, 
and Watercress may be prepared like the asparagus. 

Onion Soup. 

Peel and slice four large onions, scald, and drain. 
Cover with cold water, and simmer till very soft. 
Mash through a vegetable strainer, add one cup of 
milk, and heat again. Cook one tablespoon of flour in 
one tablespoon of butter, and gradually add the liquid 
from the onion till smooth and thin enough to pour 



78 Home Science Cook Book. 

into the soup. Season with one teaspoon of salt and 
one saltspoon of pepper. Beat one egg, add one cup 
of cream, and stir in quickly as it is taken from the 
fire. 

Cream of Tomato, or Mock Bisque Soup. 

Stew tomato, canned or fresh, with a few pepper- 
corns and bits of bay-leaf, mace, parsley, etc., for 
half an hour, then strain. Add one saltspoon of soda 
for each pint and mix with an equal quantity of thin 
white sauce and one cup of hot cream. 

Cream of Green Peas. 

Peas that are too old and hard for the table may be 
used in soup. Cook one quart of peas in one pint of 
gently boiling water till soft. Mash through a sieve 
with the water. Add one pint of white sauce. Season 
with one-half teaspoon each of salt and sugar, one- 
fourth teaspoon of pepper, and if too thick add more 
hot milk. 

In the same way prepare Lentils, Black Beans, and 
Split Peas after soaking and cooking for five or six 
hours. From one-half to one whole cup of dried peas 
or beans will be needed for each quart of soup. 

Baked beans combined with some gravy from roast 
meat, flavored with tomato ketchup, and reduced with 
water to the right consistency, make a good soup. 
Thin slices of lemon and hard-boiled eggs often are 
used to garnish such soups. 

Cream of Potato. 

Mix one cup of mashed potato with one pint of hot 
milk ; add one cup of white sauce, flavor with salt, 



Soups. 79 

pepper, celery salt, and onion juice. Half potato and 
half white turnip also makes a good soup. 

Cream of Chestnuts. 

Mix one cup of cooked and sifted chestnuts with one 
pint of white stock and one pint of white sauce. 

Cream of Chicken. 

In one pint of chicken stock cook one-fourth cup of 
chopped celery and onion for fifteen minutes, or season 
with celery salt and onion juice. Mix the stock with 
an equal quantity of hot white sauce. Season, strain, 
and serve. 

For a garnish use fine chopped parsley or yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a strainer. 

This soup may be made thinner, and a little tapioca 
or sago cooked in it until transparent. 

Cream of Fish. 

The head and bones of a three-pound cod or haddock 
will yield a pint or more of stock. Use this in place 
of the chicken stock above and omit the celery. 

Cream of Cheese. 

To one quart of cream of chicken, omitting celery 
and onion, add one-half cup of grated cheese and a 
speck of soda. Season with salt and paprika. Blend 
with beaten yolks of two eggs just before serving. 

Cream of Salmon. 

One cup or half can of salmon free from skin 
and bone, and minced fine, is mixed with one quart of 
milk slightly thickened. A cup of oyster liquor may 
be used in place of part of the milk. 



8o Home Science Cook Book. 

Peanut Puree. 

Remove shell and skin from fresh roasted peanuts, 
chop or pound fine, and cook in white stock for an 
hour, using one cup of nuts to one quart of stock, or 
one-half cup of peanut butter. Season with salt, 
paprika, and a few drops of onion juice. Thicken with 
butter and flour cooked together if desired. 

Cream of Indian Corn. 

Mix one tablespoon of flour with one-fourth cup of 
corn-meal and one level teaspoon of salt; make it into 
a thin paste with a little cold water, and stir it into 
one quart of rapidly boiling water, which is in the top 
of the double boiler placed directly on the stove. Stir 
well for five minutes, then place the pan over boiling 
water and cook thirty minutes. Add milk or cream to 
thin it sufficiently, and season with pepper or paprika. 
Just before serving put in one cup of pop-corn. 

Tomato Soup. 

Rinse one-fourth cup of rice, and cook gently in two 
quarts of boiling salted water till the starch cells 
burst. There should not be more than a generous 
quart of the starch when boiled. Stew a can of toma- 
toes for half an hour, seasoning, when first put on, 
with a teaspoon of salt, a level saltspoon of pepper, a 
tablespoon of sugar, a medium-sized onion sliced, three 
cloves, one small bay-leaf, and a little nutmeg. Rub 
the tomato when done through a soup strainer into the 
rice-starch and taste to see if the seasoning is right, 
adding salt or pepper if necessary. Now add a cup of 
whipped cream and serve. This is delicious and easily 
prepared. 



Soups. 81 

Succotash Soup. 

Pick over and soak over night one cup of dried Lima 
beans. In the morning rinse, drain, and put on to 
boil in two quarts of water. Cook slowly till the beans 
are soft. When nearly done, chop one can of sweet 
corn as fine as possible, and stir it into the beans. Let 
it cook five minutes, then turn the whole into the 
strainer, and rub the pulp through. Put it over the 
fire again and add to it one pint of white sauce. 
Season with one teaspoon of salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
of paprika, one tablespoon of sugar, and a trace of 
nutmeg. 

Hulled Corn Soup. 

The flavor of hulled corn is especially agreeable to 
those accustomed to this dish in childhood. If one 
wishes to serve it in a modern way, a soup or puree 
will be found to be delicious. Mash the corn until fine 
and sift it through a puree strainer ; or chop it fine 
before sifting. Stir in hot milk enough to make it the 
consistency of any cream vegetable soup. Put it on 
to boil and add salt and pepper to taste, and a gener- 
ous tablespoon of butter for each quart of the mixture. 
Serve it with croutons. It will have a slightly granu- 
lar texture, and if this is not liked, the usual flour 
thickening may be added. 

Fruit Soups. 

Soups made from fruit juices only slightly sweet- 
ened, thickened with arrowroot, and served cold in 
bouillon cups, are quite acceptable in hot days. 

The following formula for a cherry soup will serve 
as a guide for making others, the amount of sugar and 



82 Home Science Cook Book. 

thickening needed varying with the acidity and texture 
of the fruit used. 

Cherry Soup. 

Allow a pint of water to a pint of fruit. Pick over 
and wash one pint of cherries, the nicer the better, 
although the small sour cherries are sometimes used. 
Put them into a stew-pan with one pint of cold water 
and let them cook five minutes. Then rub through a 
hair or granite strainer, and heat again. Add one-half 
cup of sugar, not enough to make it sweet, but just to 
take off the sharp twang. Rub one tablespoon of arrow- 
root or cornstarch to a paste with one tablespoon of 
cold water, stir it in when the liquid boils, and cook two 
or three minutes, or until clear. Some fruits will be im- 
proved by the addition of a tablespoon of lemon juice. 

Set away to cool and serve with cracked ice in cups 
or in glasses. 

Serve with zwieback or toasted wafers. 

Swedish Soup. 

Cut up two quarts of apples and boil with two 
quarts of water until tender. Strain and put the juice 
on to boil again with a bit of stick cinnamon, lemon 
peel, and sugar to taste. Mix one tablespoon of corn- 
starch with one cup of water, and pour into the apple 
juice while it is boiling. Put in preserved cherries, 
which have been steeped in sugar and water, and add 
the apple pulp. Serve cold as soup, and put in cubes 
of lemon jelly when ready to serve. 



Entrees. 83 



Entrees. 

General Directions for Warming over Meats. 

Remove everything uneatable, bones, gristle, or 
skin. Cut in pieces of equal size, or chop fine. 
Moisten with gravy or stock, season moderately, and 
serve hot. Meat thus prepared may be put on slices 
of toast, or placed in a deep plate or vegetable dish, 
covered with mashed potato, and baked until the 
potato is brown, or prepared with the potato as hash, 
or combined with buttered crumbs in an escallop. 

Hash. 

Twice as much chopped or mashed potato as meat, 
or equal parts of each. The meat may be one-fourth 
fat; chop it fine, add the potato, and chop again. 
Season with salt and pepper, the quantity to be varied 
with the nature of the meat ; moisten with milk, water, 
or stock. Melt a tablespoon of fat for each cup of hash 
in a frying-pan, spread the hash in evenly, and cook 
slowly for about twenty minutes. Shake the pan occa- 
sionally to prevent sticking. Roll or fold without 
breaking the brown crust. Or the hash may be put 
in a buttered pan and baked in the oven. 

A slice of onion or stalk of celery chopped fine with 
the potato gives an agreeable flavor for a beef hash. 

Some housekeepers have not yet grasped the idea 
that a hash may be made from anything but corned 
beef or salt fish, yet ham, lamb, chicken, halibut, 
salmon, or any meat or fish combined with potato well 
seasoned and carefully warmed makes an acceptable 



84 Home Science Cook Book. 

hash, which may well be the principal part of the 
breakfast or luncheon. 

Vegetable Hash. 

Chopped beets, turnips, and cabbage may be added 
to a hash of corned beef and potato. More often the 
potato is mixed with an equal bulk of the other vege- 
tables in any proportion in which they happen to be 
left from other meals, especially from a boiled dinner. 
This hash is heated and browned slightly like any other. 

Steak Hash. 

Bits of broiled steak left over may be chopped fine 
and put with a remainder of scalloped onion and 
mashed potato and will make hash for a relish the next 
day with boiled or scrambled eggs. 

Scalloped Meat or Fish. 

One measure of meat, poultry, or fish chopped or cut 
fine, one of sauce or gravy, one of stale bread or coarse 
cracker crumbs, or boiled rice, or macaroni. Season 
either meat or sauce highly with salt, pepper, onion 
juice, celery salt, or whatever is liked and is convenient 
at the time. 

Unless the meat is quite fat, melt one ounce of butter 
to mix with each cup of crumbs. In a pudding dish put 
a layer of crumbs, then meat, moisten with sauce, and 
proceed till the dish is full, having crumbs on top. 

To prepare baked fish the following day for break- 
fast or luncheon, remove all skin and bones, and mix 
fish, stuffing, and sauce together ; moisten with milk 
if there was not sufficient sauce. Put in shells or a 
shallow pudding dish, cover with buttered crumbs, 
and bake till hot and brown. 



Entrees. 85 

Chartreuse of Rice and Meat or Fish. 

Boil one cup of rice in two quarts of boiling water 
till tender ; drain and line a mold. Fill with one pint 
of cold meat or fish, well seasoned and moistened with 
one cup of tomato sauce, or with one cup of stock 
mixed with one beaten egg. Cover with the rice and 
steam or bake in a pan of water for about forty min- 
utes. Turn from the mold and serve with tomato 
sauce. Boiled hominy or mashed potato may take the 
place of the rice. 

Minced Meat on Toast. 

One pint of cold roast or stewed beef, chicken, lamb, 
or veal, freed from bones, skin, and gristle, and cut 
fine. Moisten slightly with hot gravy, milk, or water, 
or tomato, season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
when hot spread it on toast. Add one tablespoon of 
butter if only water is used for moisture. 

Meat Cakes or Fricandelles. 

Mix one cup of chopped cooked meat, one cup of 
bread-crumbs, one-half teaspoon of mixed herbs, one 
saltspoon of salt and a speck of pepper, with one 
beaten egg and one or two spoonfuls of milk. Shape 
in small cakes and brown in hot butter. 

Chicken Timbales. 

Mix thoroughly one pint of chopped chicken, one 
cup of stale bread-crumbs or chicken stuffing, one- 
half teaspoon of mixed herbs, one saltspoon of pepper, 
one-half teaspoon of salt, and moisten with one cup of 
milk, or stock, and two beaten eggs. Celery salt, 
cayenne, parsley, onion and lemon juice also may be 
used for seasoning. Pack in small molds well but- 



86 Home Science Cook Book. 

tered, and steam about fifteen minutes. Turn from 
the molds and serve with or without a sauce. 

Veal or Lamb may be used instead of the chicken. 

Creamed Codfish. 

Soak in cold water, pick apart, and put in fresh 
cold water; let it heat, but not boil, and change the 
water again and again till the fish is fresh enough. 
Then drain and combine with white sauce. 

Fish Timbales. 

To each cup of creamed fish, salt or fresh, add one 
well-beaten egg and more seasoning if desired. Pack 
in buttered cups, or in one dish, and steam or bake 
until firm enough to turn from the molds. 

Jellied Meat. 

Trim all the meat from a cold roast of veal or lamb 
and stew in a little water till tender and thoroughly 
scalded. Drain, pick over, cut fine, season highly. 
After removing fat from the broth let it boil away till 
there is about one-half cup to each cup of meat. In 
each cup of stock dissolve one tablespoon of gelatin. 
Mix with meat and mold in a bread pan. After chill- 
ing cut in slices. 

Salmon Loaf. 

Mince one can of salmon ; add one cup of stale bread- 
crumbs (the white, without crust), two beaten eggs, 
one-half cup of milk. Season to taste with salt, pep- 
per, parsley, and lemon juice. Put in a mold and 
steam or bake for thirty minutes. Turn from the 
mold and serve hot with a white or Hollandaise 



Entrees. 87 

sauce. Remnants of a baked fish and its stuffing may 
be used in place of the salmon and bread-crumbs. 

Fish Left-Overs. 

Equal parts of mashed potato and cold cooked fish, 
halibut, haddock, cod, or salmon, freed from bone and 
skin. Make the fish quite moist with hot cream, or 
white sauce, and season highly with onion, parsley, 
salt, and black pepper. Fill small baking dishes, 
shells, or ramekins with the fish mixture. Beat the 
potato until smooth, and to one cup of potato add one 
beaten yolk of egg to make it hold together, and mix 
them thoroughly. Put the potato over the fish in 
some fancy shape or scroll, using a pastry bag and 
star tube for the purpose. Set the dishes in a pan of 
hot water and brown slightly in a hot oven. 

Pickled Fish. 

Cut into pieces for serving any kind of white fish, 
boiled and cold. Boil one pint of vinegar with one- 
half a bay-leaf, one teaspoon of cloves, and one table- 
spoon each of allspice and peppercorns for twenty 
minutes. When it is cold pour it over the pieces of 
cold boiled fish. When ready to serve, pour off the 
vinegar and garnish with parsley. 

Codfish Puff. 

Soak and pick into half-inch bits enough salt cod- 
fish to make a solid half cup. Pare and quarter a 
heaped cup of potatoes. Cook them together in boil- 
ing salted water until the potatoes are tender. Drain 
off every drop of water. Mash well, add one table- 
spoon of butter, a few shakes of pepper, and beat 
until no fish can be seen except by the fine threads. 



88 Home Science Cook Book. 

Beat two eggs very light, and beat them well into the 
fish. The mixture should be very soft and creamy. 

Have the bottom of a spider or omelet pan covered 
with hot salt pork fat, put in the fish and spread it 
evenly over the pan half an inch thick. Cook slowly 
until a brown crust has formed, then loosen it round 
the edge, and roll one side over and turn out like an 
omelet. 

Fish Balls. 

One cup of salt codfish, soaked and picked fine, and 
two heaped cups of potatoes, boiled twenty minutes. 
Drain, mash, and beat fine with one tablespoon of 
butter and a dash of pepper. Cool slightly, and add 
one well-beaten egg. Take up a small tablespoonful, 
smooth off, and slip the ball into deep hot fat. Keep 
the fish in a bowl of cold water while picking it apart, 
and it will need no further soaking, and if thoroughly 
mashed and beaten'with the potato, it will blend better 
than if it had been chopped, and will be recognized 
only by the taste and the presence of fine thread-like 
fibers. The water should be well drained off when 
the potatoes are done, and the egg should not be 
added till the mixture is cool, otherwise it will be 
cooked, and this will merely make the mixture rich but 
not light. The fat should be hot enough to brown a 
piece of bread while you are counting forty, and should 
be free from all crumbs or sediment. Crowding the 
balls will cool the fat, so fry only four or five at a time. 
This same mixture may be shaped into flat cakes and 
browned on each side in hot salt pork fat. 

Left-Over Fish Balls. 

Every one recognizes the difference between fresh 



Entrees. 89 

hot mashed potato and potato that has been allowed to 
become cold and then chopped and warmed over, 
but each may be perfect in its way. This same 
difference will be found in all combinations of potato 
with fish, meat, etc., and fish balls or hash made with 
fresh hot mashed potatoes will be quite unlike the 
same amount of fish or meat mixed with cold chopped 
potatoes. 

Salt or fresh fish may be used. Fresh fish which 
has been fried gives a good flavor. 

Chop the fish rather coarsely, being careful to re- 
move all fine bones, then mash it fine. Chop about 
twice the amount of cold potatoes and mix them 
thoroughly with the fish; season with pepper and 
moisten with the drawn butter gravy left over, or with 
a little cream or white sauce. Fry out several slices 
of fat salt pork, drop a spoonful of the mixture in the 
hot fat, pat it down flat and even, and turn over when 
brown. Serve a poached egg or half of a hard-boiled 
egg on each fish cake, and garnish with a fan of 
pickled cucumber. 

Pink Fish Balls. 

Use salmon fresh or canned, mix with warm mashed 
potato, and season. Dip in melted butter and broil 
under the gas flame. 

Finnan Haddock Fish Balls. 

One pint of fish minced fine and mixed with one 
cup of thick sauce made with one-fourth cup each of 
butter and flour, and one cup of milk. Season with 
salt and pepper and add one beaten egg. Drop by 
teaspoonfuls in deep hot fat, or cool the mixture and 
prepare like croquettes before frying. 



90 Home Science Cook Book. 

Souffles. 

For each cup of white sauce, or an equally thick 
paste of bread and milk, use from one-half to one cup 
of cooked meat, poultry, or fish chopped fine, and from 
one to three eggs. This is a combination of creamed 
meat with a puffy omelet, and the degree of puffiness 
depends upon the number of eggs used. 

Mix the meat with the warm sauce, season highly. 
Add a few stale white bread-crumbs if the meat is 
moist and a spoonful or two of milk if it is dry. 
Canned salmon, for example, will be very moist, while 
roast meat will be dry. 

When cool add the well-beaten yolks and stiff whites 
of the eggs. Fill buttered molds and stand in a pan 
of water, and cook in a slow oven until puffed and 
firm. This may be *baked in one large mold, but 
small ones are better. It should be served in the dish 
in which it is cooked. Paper cases, scallop shells, or 
ramekins are used. Serve hot, with or without a 
sauce. 

Vegetable souffles are made without the sauce, the 
potato, parsnip, peas, or whatever is used being moist- 
ened with cream or milk before folding in the beaten 
eggs. 

Swedish Timbale Cases. 

Two eggs, one-half cup of milk, one cup of flour, 
one saltspoon of salt, one teaspoon of sugar, one table- 
spoon of oil or melted butter. Do not separate eggs, 
but beat the whole mixture together till smooth. 

The timbale iron must be heated in the kettle of 
deep fat. Drain it, wipe on clean paper, and dip into 
the batter which should be put in a large cup or small 



Entrees. 91 

deep bowl. Hold the iron there till a coating of the 
batter adheres to it, then put it back in the fat, and 
cook till crisp and light brown. Drain on paper. 

This quantity will make twenty or more of the 
cases. They may be made several days before they 
are to be used, and heated in the oven just before they 
are filled with creamed sweetbreads, etc. 

Fritter Batter. 

Use the same proportions as for the timbale cases, 
but separate the yolks and whites of the eggs and fold 
in the whites last. One teaspoon of baking powder 
may be added and one egg left out. 

The yolks of the eggs are sometimes omitted. 

Apple Fritters. 

Core and pare three or four apples, but do not break 
them. Cut them in slices one- third of an inch thick, 
leaving the opening in the center. Sprinkle with 
sugar, lemon, and spice. Dip each slice in the fritter 
batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. 

Other fruits, clams, oysters, tripe or small sections 
of cooked meat may be covered with the same batter 
and fried. One tablespoon of lemon juice or vinegar 
often is added to the batter for meats and fish. 

Meat Dumplings. 

Season one cup of fine chopped cold meat and mix 
with the unbeaten whites of two eggs. Shape in 
balls or drop from a spoon into hot water or tomato 
sauce. Cook five minutes or more, and serve on toast. 

Macaroni. 

The preparation of macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli, 



92 Home Science Cook Book. 

etc. , is much like that of cereals. Each is cooked in 
boiling salted water until tender, twenty to forty 
minutes, according to the size and shape. If drained 
and put in cold water for a short time it will keep its 
shape without sticking together. Then it may be cut 
in rings for soup, or short sections to line timbale 
molds, or for croquettes, or to serve in a sauce. 

One-fourth of a pound package of macaroni will 
measure about one quart when cooked. 

Macaroni with Cheese. 

Mix together, or put in layers in a dish, one pint of 
boiled macaroni, one cup of thin, white sauce highly 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and from one-fourth to 
one-half cup of chopped or grated cheese. Sprinkle 
with buttered crumbs and bake until hot and brown. 

Macaroni with Eggs. 

Omit the cheese in the preceding recipe and add two 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. 

Macaroni with Ham. 

To the macaroni and sauce add one cup of fine 
minced ham, seasoned with mustard, and beat one 
raw egg into the white sauce. 

Macaroni with Oysters. 

Add one cup of oysters, highly seasoned with salt 
and pepper, to one pint of macaroni. Moisten with one 
cup of cream or sauce. Cover with crumbs and bake. 

Macaroni Croquettes. 

Moisten one pint of boiled macaroni, well drained, 
and cut fine with one cup of thick, white sauce and one 



Entrees. 93 

egg beaten. Season with salt and pepper and one- 
quarter to one-half cup of grated cheese. Shape when 
cool. 

Macaroni with Tomato. 

Fry one teaspoon of chopped onion in one tablespoon 
of butter until slightly colored; add one tablespoon 
of flour, and when well mixed add gradually one and 
one-half cups of strained tomato and half a teaspoon 
of salt. This may be mixed with the macaroni alone, 
or with the addition of the cheese or the oysters. 

The macaroni may be baked or reheated in a double 
boiler with the tomato sauce. 

Macaroni with Rabbit Sauce. 

Melt one-fourth pound of cheese, cut in bits, in a 
double boiler with one-half cup of cream, season with 
salt, pepper, and mustard, and add one beaten egg. 
Have one pint of macaroni heated in a little cream and 
pour the rabbit over it. Sprinkle with coarse crumbs 
browned in butter. 

Noodles. 

Break two eggs into a bowl and stir in sifted flour 
to make a very stiff dough. Knead it until very dry 
and smooth. Do not add salt, for German cooks think 
the salt makes them tough and sticky. Divide in con- 
venient portions and roll as thin as paper. Let them 
dry on'a floured cloth for an hour. When dry roll up 
lightly like a jelly roll and slice off in thin shavings. 
Then unroll them and dry again. Drop them into 
rapidly boiling salted water, a few at a time, and cook 
them ten minutes. Drain and put them in soup, or 
prepare like macaroni. 



94 Home Science Cook Book. 



Croquettes. 

CROQUETTES may be made from almost any food ma- 
terial. The crisp, brown outside is attained by rolling 
in egg and crumbs and frying in deep fat. That 
process is common to all croquettes, and all varieties 
may be grouped under two heads, those having a basis 
of white sauce, and those which have not. Some are 
made of meat and fish cooked tender, minced fine, 
while the sauce is double the usual thickness, and egg 
is sometimes added to these. 

Others are made of vegetables, and egg alone is 
generally used to hold them in shape. These two 
classes may unite in one, as in fish balls where some- 
times creamed salt fish is combined with potato and 
egg, or in macaroni croquettes. 

The difficulty some cooks experience in making cro- 
quettes is due chiefly to the variability of materials, 
especially in the amount of moisture. It is practically 
impossible to cover this by any recipe. The way meat 
or vegetables are cooked, drained, and chopped or 
mashed makes a difference in the amount of sauce 
needed to shape them into croquettes. The temper- 
ature at which the croquettes are handled is another 
important point. 

The ideal croquette should be soft and creamy in- 
side when served, and yet keep its shape, and" be crisp 
and brown outside. It is not necessary to use one kind 
of meat, fish, or vegetable, often two or three are com- 
bined in one form. Chicken and veal, or either, or 
both, with brains, sweetbreads or mushrooms, or 
oysters are often found in one recipe. 



Croquettes. 95 

Equal quantities of meat and sauce, or more of 
either one, may be used. When the meat or fish is 
moist (canned salmon, for example), the sauce should 
be a trifle thicker than when baked fish or roast 
chicken is used. When the meat is chopped fine, more 
sauce may be used than if it were cut in small cubes. 
A meat chopper shortens the preparation. Meat be- 
comes pasty when chopped while hot. 

So much depends upon the seasoning already given 
the meat that no recipe can be followed implicitly. 
Frequent tasting should be the rule. Celery salt goes 
well with veal and chicken; lemon juice with fish; 
mustard with ham and sometimes with fish; cheese 
with macaroni and rice. A suspicion of onion with 
almost everything. Tasteless meat, even that from 
which bouillon has been made, can be transformed 
into savory croquettes with a tomato sauce and a 
flavor of onion. Though the flavor had been taken for 
the soup, much of the nutriment remains in the meat. 

After meat, sauce, and seasoning are thoroughly 
mixed, the whole is to be spread in shallow pans to 
cool. These pans or plates should be greased or 
lightly sprinkled with fine crumbs. A piece of paraf- 
fin paper placed on top the mixture while it is cool- 
ing prevents the formation of a skin-like crust. This 
mixture should be thoroughly chilled ; it may be made 
one day and fried the next. 

For the second class of croquettes, including all 
such as potato, parsnips, beans, chestnuts, etc., the 
cooked vegetable is mashed, seasoned, and with it is 
mixed beaten egg, or the yolk only. These croquettes 
are usually shaped while warm, since they hold to- 
gether better, and are less liable to crack while frying. 



96 Home Science Cook Bodk. 

Shaping. 

The standard shapes for croquettes are the cylinder, 
the cone, and the cutlet, though as many other forms 
may be made as the ingenuity of the cook can devise. 
It is a question whether apples, chickens, etc., are de- 
sirable forms in which to serve such compounds. 

The first step is to divide the mixture into the de- 
sired number of portions, making them uniform in 
size, a rounded tablespoonful is about the right 
quantity for each one. The hands may be dampened 
with water or milk to prevent the mixture sticking, or 
fine crumbs may be dusted over board and hands as 
flour is used with dough. If for any reason the mix- 
ture is too soft to handle, a very little cracker dust 
may be stirred into it. 

First roll the spoonful into a round ball, then put on 
the board with a few crumbs, and gently roll till a 
cylinder shape is secured, or tip the hand so that one 
end receives more pressure to get the cone shape. 
Then lightly lift in the hand and flatten first one end 
and then the other on the board. For the cutlets or 
chop shape, flatten the ball and curve and point one 
end. 

When all are ready put more crumbs on the board, 
dip each croquette in beaten egg, drain and roll over 
in the crumbs. The whole egg or the whites only are 
used for crumbing. When beaten too little the egg 
slips off the croquette, leaving part of the surface bare ; 
if beaten too much, air bubbles break with like effect. 
With each egg one or two tablespoons of milk or water 
should be mixed. A palate knife may be used to roll 
the croquette over in the egg till all parts are coated. 
The crumbs may be either bread or cracker, but the 



Croquettes. 97 

former are to be preferred as they brown better in the 
frying and do not have the greasy look common when 
cracker crumbs are used. 

If not convenient to fry, after egging and crumbing, 
roll over in melted butter and bake in the oven under 
a gas flame. The egg in the mixture is desirable 
when the croquettes are to be cooked in this way as it 
helps keep them in shape, for the crust is not quite so 
firm as when they are fried. 

A white, brown, or tomato sauce may be made thick 
and used for croquettes. Gravy left over with meat 
can be utilized by adding more flour and cooking thor- 
oughly, or by the use of some cracker dust in mixing 
the croquettes. 

Frying. 

The fat may be a mixture of several kinds or one 
alone. It should be hot enough to brown the cro- 
quettes in about one minute. To test it drop in a bit 
of white bread-crumb which should become brown in 
half a minute. Lift the frying basket with a long 
fork, and have a tin plate to set it in when taken from 
the fat. Dip the basket in the fat and put in only 
from three to five croquettes at once as more will cool 
the fat too much. Keep them under the fat all the 
time. When brown, lift the basket, drain over the 
fat, and then on soft paper. If they are lifted out and 
put back again, or are in the fat too long, or are not 
evenly crumbed, or are too large there will be a ten- 
dency to break open. 

Garnishes for croquettes are varied: the lobster 
claw, the paper decoration, parsley, fresh or fried, and 
many others. 



98 Home Science Cook Book. 

If sauce is to accompany croquettes, it should not 
be allowed to spoil the crispness and, therefore, better 
be served in a separate dish. 

Croquettes or Cutlets. 

One solid cup (or one-half pound) of cooked meat, 
chopped fine. Season chicken or veal with one-half 
teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of celery salt, one 
saltspoon of pepper, a speck of cayenne, a few drops 
of onion juice, one tablespoon of lemon juice, one tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley. Season lobster and other 
fish with salt, paprika, mustard, and lemon. Mix with 
a thick sauce, made with one ounce of butter, two 
tablespoons of corn-starch, or four of flour, and one 
cup of milk or stock. Spread on a plate to cool. Shape. 
Roll in crumbs, eggs and crumbs. Fry one minute. 
Drain on paper. 

Apple Croquettes. 

Stew apples till soft with very little water, and beat 
till smooth, or rub through a strainer. To each cup 
of this sauce cold, add two tablespoons of sugar, one- 
half cup of cracker or shredded wheat biscuit crumbs, 
one saltspoon of salt, two saltspoons of nutmeg ; stand 
in cold place for an hour, then carefully shape like 
small apples, crumb, cover with egg, crumb again, fry 
in deep fat, and insert clove to represent blossom end 
of apple, and another clove at opposite end for a stem. 

Nut Croquettes. 

Soak one cup of stale white bread-crumbs in one-half 
cup of milk, mix with one cup of chopped walnuts or 
mixed nuts, season with salt and pepper, add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Shape, egg, and crumb. 



Croquettes. 99 

Surprise Croquettes. 

In shaping the croquette flatten out the mixture 
and roll up in it some other substance : a lump of stiff 
currant jelly in rice, a few green peas in salmon, an 
oyster (parboiled) in fish, creamed meat in potato, etc. 

A croquette may be dipped in a fritter batter instead 
of in egg and crumbs, but will have a less regular 
surface. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Boil the potatoes, mash thoroughly, or put through 
the ricer. With one pint of the mashed potato put one 
tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon of salt, and one 
beaten egg. Mix and moisten according to the dry- 
ness of the potato with about one-fourth cup of hot 
cream or milk. Shape as usual, roll in crumbs, beaten 
egg, and crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat. 

Chestnuts may be prepared in the same way. 

Farina Croquettes. 

Put one-half pint of milk into a double boiler, add 
slowly one-fourth cup of farina, stir till it thickens, 
then remove from the fire, add the yolks of two eggs 
well beaten, one-half teaspoon of salt, a dash of pepper, 
one tablespoon of fine chopped parsley, and turn out 
to cool. When cold form into small cylindrical cro- 
quettes, dip into egg, then in bread-crumbs, and fry 
in hot, deep fat. Drain and garnish with parsley. 



ioo Home Science Cook Book. 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 

MEAT salads are suitable for the substantial dish for 
a family luncheon, especially in warm weather. A 
salad for dinner should always be of some light vege- 
table, like lettuce, chicory, celery, etc., prepared with 
a French dressing. 

The use of salads for winter foods seems wholly in- 
appropriate to some persons, for they argue that it is 
not natural for green plants to grow in winter, and, 
therefore, such things are not suitable for food at 
that season. But with our artificial manner of living 
we require green food in winter almost as much as in 
summer. 

Even without lettuce or celery, palatable salads can 
be made from the standard vegetables and fruits which 
we have practically all the year, like the apple, cab- 
bage, potato, onion, and canned tomato. 

French Dressing. 

Use two or three tablespoons of oil to one of vinegar 
or lemon juice, season with salt and pepper, and mix 
thoroughly, adding the vinegar gradually. Tarragon 
vinegar may be used, or a few drops of onion juice. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Mix together one-half teaspoon each of salt and mus- 
tard, a speck of cayenne, and one tablespoon each of 
lemon juice and vinegar. In another bowl beat the 
yolk of an egg slightly with fork or wooden spoon, and 
drop in the oil slowly ; as it thickens add a little of the 
other mixture. The process will be more rapid if 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 101 

utensils and materials are cold. Continue till one cup 
of oil and all the seasoning have been used. Keep the 
dressing in a cold place until nearly ready to serve the 
salad. 

A half cup of thick whipped cream may be folded in 
just before serving, and more seasoning added. 

The dressing may be colored with lobster coral dried 
and pounded, or with spinach green, parsley, or with 
the color pastes. 

Never mix the mayonnaise dressing with the meat 
or fish until ready to serve, and then use only part of 
it, and spread the remainder over the top. 

Mayonnaise Tartare. 

This is simply the addition of chopped olives, 
pickles, parsley, capers, and onions to the mayonnaise. 
Use one- fourth cup in all, with one cup of dressing. 

Boiled Salad Dressing. 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add 
two tablespoons of flour, cook together till frothy, but 
not browned, add one-half cup of vinegar, and continue 
cooking till the mixture thickens; then remove from 
the stove. Thoroughly mix one teaspoon each of salt, 
sugar, and mustard, and a few grains of cayenne, and 
sift into the vinegar sauce, stirring in smoothly. Heat 
one cup of milk in a double boiler, add two beaten 
egg yolks or one egg, and cook like soft custard, stir- 
ring constantly. When slightly thickened, remove 
the upper part of the double boiler, and gradually 
mix the custard with the vinegar sauce. Beat the two 
parts together with the egg-beater until perfectly 
smooth ; strain. This may be kept for weeks. 



102 Home Science Cook Book. 

Cream Dressing. 

With a wire spoon beat one-half pint of sour cream 
with a tablespoon of sugar and with vinegar to offset 
the sweetness of the sugar. Thick cream makes a 
foamy dressing. Season with paprika and salt. 

Cooked Cream Dressing for Fruit Salads. 

Cook together two tablespoons of butter and three 
tablespoons of flour. Add one cup of sweet cream. 
Let it boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. Re- 
move from the fire and stir in one-half cup of sour 
cream, the juice of half a lemon, a very little salt, and 
sugar to taste. Allow it to become perfectly cold. Pour 
the mixture over sliced apples or bananas, and set on 
ice one hour before serving. This will please those 
who find they cannot eat oil. 

Remoulade Dressing. 

Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs through a 
sieve, mix with one raw yolk, and a seasoning of salt, 
pepper, and mustard. Little by little beat in one cup 
of oil, and as it thickens a few drops of vinegar. 

Garnishes for Salads. 

Edible garnishes are the only ones which should be 
allowed. Occasionally we may serve the salad in 
baskets made from the half skins of small grapefruit, 
oranges, or large lemons, or in apples or cooked beets, 
or the boat-like shape of a half cucumber. 

Capers, olives, and pimolas are not only attractive 
for garnish, but will to some extent take the place of 
other " greens " in a salad. 

When the olives stuffed with peppers are cut in 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 103 

cross sections, the brilliant red center surrounded by 
olive green is a very effective decoration. 

The canned Spanish peppers, " pimientos, " cut in 
strips or fancy shapes, are a brilliant addition to a 
salad dull in coloring. 

A medley of lettuce, parsley, capers, celery, eggs, 
tomatoes, and beets, or any similar variety of shades 
and colors, cannot be considered artistic. The best 
effects are produced by a few materials contrasting 
well, or by two or three shades of the same color. 
No intervening color can produce a good effect from a 
combination of tomatoes and red beets, nor can a 
combination of stewed tomato and yolk of egg be 
made very harmonious. The garnish should not de- 
tract from the main substance. 

The materials at hand at the moment and the in- 
genuity of the maker must be depended upon rather 
than printed directions. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Serve tips of boiled asparagus with a French dress- 
ing. In the same way prepare string beans. 

Apple, Nut, and Celery Salad. 

Use equal parts or any proportion convenient at the 
time. Split the celery stalks, lay several together, and 
shave off in thin slices. Use almonds, peanuts, pe- 
cans, or walnuts, removing skins when possible, and 
cutting or chopping in small pieces. Do not prepare 
the apples until ready to put the mixture together. 
Cut them in eighths, pare and cut from the end in thin 
slices. Season the mixture with salt and paprika, and 
mix with French or mayonnaise dressing. 



104 Home Science Cook Book. 

Use apple and nuts or apple and celery or celery and 
nuts in the same way. Serve on lettuce leaves or in 
bright red apples hollowed out to hold it. 

Waldorf Salad. 

This consists of equal proportions of apple and 
celery cut in small pieces and held together by mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Apple and Onion Salad. 

Boil one cup of vinegar, or if strong use half water. 
Mix one teaspoon of mustard, one teaspoon of corn- 
starch, one-half teaspoon of salt, and one-half salt- 
spoon of pepper with one well-beaten egg. Stir this 
into the boiling vinegar and cook until creamy. Pour 
it over two mildly acid apples sliced and one onion 
chopped fine. Serve it in lettuce cups. 

Banana Salad. 

Remove the skin from six or eight bananas, leaving 
skins in good shape for refilling. Cut each banana in 
four strips and then across in thin slices. Season 
with lemon juice and salt, then mix with mayonnaise 
or cooked dressing, and put back in the skins. 

Beet Salad. 

Cut boiled beets in cubes and leave in a French 
dressing for an hour; then add one-fourth as much 
chopped olives. 

Cabbage Salad or Cold Slaw. 

Use the center of the cabbage for salad, shred or 
chop fine, and serve with French dressing. Or pour a 
hot cooked dressing over chopped cabbage, and serve 
after chilling. 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 105 

Crisp, tender cabbage well flavored with celery salt 
can hardly be told from celery when combined with 
chicken and mayonnaise. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

Boil the cauliflower ; drain carefully, and when cold 
serve with a French or mayonnaise dressing. 

Celeriac Salad. 

Boil the turnip-rooted celery, peel and slice and 
serve cold with any dressing. This root is an excel- 
lent addition to a potato salad. 

Chicken Salad. 

Equal quantities of chicken and celery are cut in 
cubes, moistened with a French dressing, and left for 
several hours. Just before serving mix with a little 
mayonnaise and place more on top. 

To one quart of mixed chicken and celery allow one 
cup of mayonnaise. Use veal in the same way. 

Chicory Salad. 

This salad plant is not as well known as it deserves. 
The green ends of the leaves may be used like parsley 
for garnishing meats, the bleached portion is best for 
a salad. Wash and dry carefully, like lettuce, and 
serve with a French dressing. 

Chiffonade Salad. 

The pulp of one large grapefruit, a small head of 
lettuce or chicory shredded, one green pepper or sweet 
red pepper cut fine, a small quantity of cooked beets 
or fresh tomatoes cut in small pieces. Mix with 
French dressing and sprinkle with chopped parsley or 



io6 Home Science Cook Book. 

chives, or use mayonnaise if preferred. Serve in the 
skins of the grapefruit. 

Crab Salad. 

Remove the meat from the shells; mix with it 
enough mayonnaise tartare to moisten it. Put it in the 
cleaned shells, garnish with sliced lemon, cut in quar- 
ters, and lay one lapping over another around the 
edge. 

Egg and Cheese Salad. 

Place in the center of a platter a small cup of French 
dressing, surrounded by shredded lettuce. On one 
end put slices of tomato overlapping, on the other put 
a little pile of white and one of yolk of hard-boiled 
eggs, and one of cheese, pressing them through a 
potato masher into the places. 

This is dressed as served, giving those who do not 
care for cheese or tomato a chance to have only the 
part they prefer. 

Macedoine or Vegetable Salad. 

Any convenient combination of cooked vegetables 
mixed with French or mayonnaise dressing flavored 
with onion juice, may be served under this name. 

Nut Salad. 

Chestnuts may be used alone, but other nuts are 
better in combination with other materials. Almonds 
and walnuts should be blanched and cut in thin slices. 

Oyster Salad. 

Parboil the oysters, and divide if large, heap on let- 
tuce leaves, and cover with mayonnaise tartare. 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 107 

Tomato Salad. 

Select smooth tomatoes. Peel, cut a slice from the 
stem end, and remove the inside. Turn them over to 
drain, and drain the juice from the portion removed. 

Pare two small cucumbers, cut in quarters length- 
wise, and keep in ice water until ready to serve. Then 
wipe dry and cut in thin slices. Mix with them the 
drained portion of tomato pulp, and moisten with a 
little mayonnaise, and add more salt and pepper if 
desired. Arrange lettuce leaves like cups on the dish, 
put a tomato in each cup, fill it with the cucumber 
mixture, and put a teaspoonful of dressing on the top. 

The tomato cup is to be eaten with its contents, and 
that is the reason the skin is removed. It is a great 
waste of the best part of the tomato to use it only as a 
receptacle for the mixture. 

Potato Salad. 

For one quart of sliced potato use one-half cup or 
more of oil, one teaspoon of salt, one saltspoon each of 
pepper and mustard, a little cayenne, one small onion 
chopped, and nearly one-fourth cup of vinegar, and 
some chopped parsley. 

New potatoes are considered best for a salad. They 
should be cooked in their jackets in boiling salted 
water, as more of the potato flavor is retained if they 
are not pared. Take them out when not quite done. 
When cool, peel and cut them through the middle 
lengthwise, turn them over, and cut again ; then, hold- 
ing the whole together in your hand, slice off from the 
end into eighth-of-an-inch slices. In this way the pieces 
will be uniform in size and thickness. 
" Instead of the chopped onion it may be soaked in 



io8 Home Science Cook Book. 

the vinegar for half an hour, or a teaspoon of onion 
juice used. When in season, " scallions " are delicious 
in a potato salad, and a few blades of chives, finely 
minced, give a peculiarly appetizing flavor. 

A little mustard may be used with the usual French 
dressing, and the salt, pepper, cayenne, and mustard 
mixed with a little of the oil, then poured on the po- 
tatoes. The oil should always be poured over the 
potato before the vinegar, that the potato may absorb 
it. If the vinegar be used first, the salad will be too 
acid, and the oil will often be found on the dish in- 
stead of enriching the potato. The amount of oil 
which the potato will absorb will depend upon the 
quality of the potato. Be careful to use only what the 
potato will take up. Add one tablespoon of chopped 
parsley and more salt if needed. It is better, if possi- 
ble, to let it stand awhile, that the seasoning may pene- 
trate thoroughly, before arranging it on the dish for 
serving. 

Serve on a shallow dish or platter, banking it high 
in the center, and make the surface smooth. Then 
decorate it. A varied effect may be produced by dif- 
ferent combinations of the yellow and white of hard- 
boiled egg, parsley, and just a dash of shredded beet, 
either raw or cooked. Press the white of the egg 
through a potato sieve, letting it fall on the middle of 
the mound, then the yolks in the same way on either 
end, and separate the two with a line of the fine 
parsley. Arrange crisp lettuce leaves around the 
edge. Do not have a heavy garnish. 

Salad with Jellied Mayonnaise. 

To one pint of mayonnaise dressing add one cup of 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 109 

aspic jelly made with one cup of highly seasoned soup 
stock and one-half box of gelatin. Mix together when 
the jelly begins to thicken and beat thoroughly. 

Line a mold with this and mix the remainder with 
about one quart of fish or meat or celery cut fine. Pack 
into the lined mold and set away to grow firm. Turn 
out on a bed of shredded lettuce. Or the salad mix- 
ture may be chilled and shaped like croquettes or cut- 
lets, dipped in aspic or mayonnaise and garnished. 
Less gelatin may be used in cold weather. 

Jellied Fish Salad. 

Use any boiled fish or a can of shrimps, sardines or 
salmon picked apart in bits. Soak one-fourth box of 
gelatin in one-fourth cup of water, and dissolve with 
one cup of hot stock. Season with salt, pepper, and 
lemon juice, and mix with an equal measure of fish. 
Decorate one mold or several small ones with parsley, 
capers, sections of hard-boiled eggs, or any palatable 
garnish. Pack in the fish and jelly, and when firm 
turn out on the shredded lettuce and serve with a 
cooked or mayonnaise dressing. 

Tomato Jelly Salad. 

Soften one-half box of gelatin in one-half cup of 
cold water, dissolve with one-half cup of hot stock, 
add one pint of strained tomatoes, season to taste, 
and chill in molds. This may be mixed with an equal 
bulk of cold meat cut small or with baked beans before 
putting in the molds. Serve with lettuce or shredded 
cabbage and dressing. 

Chaud-froid of Chicken. 

Cut cooked chicken in neat pieces, removing nearly all 



no Home Science Cook Book. 

bone. Add two beaten egg yolks to one cup of white 
sauce and cook till thickened. Mix the sauce with 
one-half cup of seasoned chicken stock in which one 
tablespoon of gelatin is dissolved. When cool, dip the 
pieces of chicken in it. Give another coating, or one 
of aspic jelly when the first is firm. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Ham Mousse. 

One pint of boiled ham chopped fine and highly 
seasoned ; moisten with one cup of soup stock in which 
one tablespoon of gelatin is dissolved. When cool but 
not firm, fold in one-half cup of cream, whipped, and 
the stiff white of one egg. Put in molds and chill. 
Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. A can of deviled 
ham may be used. 

Surprise Salad. 

Two cold lamb chops freed from skin and bone, and 
cut in bits. One cup of tomato jelly made from 
canned tomato, strained, seasoned, and stiffened with 
one-eighth box of gelatin. Fill small earthen cups 
with this jelly, and when firm on the edges, but still 
soft inside, mix some of the central portion with the 
cut meat and pack into the center again. When firm 
serve on shredded lettuce with a teaspoon of salad 
dressing for each portion. 



Dinner. 



Dinner. 



SINCE this handbook is designed for use in simple 
every-day life, soups, salads, and made dishes are 
grouped under the head of luncheons, while dinner 
includes only fish, meat, vegetables, and desserts. 

Where a more elaborate meal is required a soup may 
precede the fish, a salad may follow the roast, and en- 
tries may be introduced as desired. But if the house- 
keeper is her own cook and waitress it is wiser to let 
the substantial soups and salads appear as the main 
dishes for luncheon or for supper, when dinner is 
served in the middle of the day. 

There are no fixed laws regarding the choice of cer- 
tain vegetables to serve with certain meats, though 
some have become associated by custom and because 
they undoubtedly harmonize. 

A knowledge of the composition of common foods is 
essential for the woman who would plan her daily 
meals intelligently. 

When fish takes the place of meat it is sometimes 
necessary to supplement the less nutritious varieties 
with rich sauces and with vegetables and desserts that 
afford considerable nutriment. On the other hand, 
roast beef or mutton or pork should be accompanied 
with lighter vegetables and simple puddings. 

There is no doubt but that the average family would 
be better off in many ways if it consumed more fruit 
and vegetables and less meat. 



H4 Home Science Cook Book. 



Fish. 

Preparation of Fish. 

To remove scales, scrape with a knife from the tail 
slowly toward the head, occasionally rinsing the knife 
in water. 

The inner organs of small fish may be pressed out 
through an opening near the gills. Large fish are cut 
half-way down and scraped clean. 

Skinning. 

To skin fish, cut through the whole length of the 
skin close to the fin on the back and remove that. 
Then cut the skin on the other side, loosen it around 
the head, and pull toward the tail. When a fish is not 
fresh it is difficult to separate the skin from the flesh. 
A sprinkle of salt over the skin makes it less slippery. 

Boning. 

After the skin is removed the flesh can be taken from 
the backbone. Begin at the back and with a sharp 
knife scrape the flesh from the bone, all the way from 
the tail to the head on one side, then do the same thing 
on the other. 

The flesh of a flounder may be cut off in four strips 
or fillets of nearly equal size. 

A slice of halibut is easily separated from bone and 
skin in four divisions. 

Best Methods of Cooking. 

Broiling and baking are the most satisfactory ways 



Fish. 115 

of cooking fish, and the two methods are practically 
the same with the gas range. 

Sections of fish dipped in melted butter or salt pork 
fat, sprinkled with fine crumbs, and broiled under gas 
have much the appearance and flavor of fried fish, and 
may be prepared without causing the odor of frying. 

Fish Stock. 

Separate the flesh from the non-edible portions be- 
fore cooking whenever it is possible. It is not eco- 
nomical to leave the head on a fish to be baked, since it 
will be practically uneatable, nor can it be considered 
ornamental in the highest sense. But if cooked in 
water it would yield good stock. Skin may as well be 
thrown away, but all fish bones and trimmings should 
be treated like meat, covered with cold water, season- 
ing added, and cooked till the bones fall apart about 
an hour. 

This stock may be kept for a day or two and then 
used for a soup, when it would not be possible to keep 
raw fish. 

Boiled Fish. 

Unless the liquor is used, this is an extravagant way 
of cooking fish. When put into boiling water the fish 
should be in compact form and be wrapped in cheese- 
cloth, or the water must be skimmed carefully to pre- 
vent the froth from settling on the fish. 

The time of cooking varies with the shape of the 
fish. The flesh must be firm and leave the bone 
readily. When cooked too long it becomes tough and 
tasteless. A few herbs may be put in the water, if de- 
sired, to vary the flavor of the fish. 

Boiled fish requires rich and highly flavored sauces. 



n6 Home Science Cook Book. 

Boiled Salmon. 

Scrape the skin of a four-pound piece of salmon, 
wipe, tie in cheese-cloth, and immerse in gently boil- 
ing salted water. Cover and cook slowly from thirty to 
forty minutes, or until the flesh will leave the bone 
easily. Drain, remove the skin, arrange on a platter, 
and pour white or egg sauce over or around it. Gar- 
nish with hard-boiled egg and lemon points, and serve 
with cucumbers and potato balls. 

Steamed Fish. 

Prepare as for boiling and put in a deep agate pan 
in a steamer with a slice of onion, a bit of bay-leaf, a 
few peppercorns, and a little salt. 

Make a white sauce from the juice which gathers in 
the pan, to serve with the fish. 

Fish Stew. 

Bone a small haddock or slice of halibut and cook 
the head and. bones in a pint of water for an hour with 
six or eight small onions. Put the boiled onions and 
the raw fish, cut in pieces and rolled in flour, in a stew- 
pan, strain the broth from the bones over them, and 
cook ten or fifteen minutes longer. Add one-half 
pint of oysters if convenient. 

Just before serving thicken the broth with butter 
and flour cooked together, one-fourth cup of each. 
Season with salt, paprika, and lemon juice. 

Baked Fish. 

Spread some butter over an agate dripping pan or 
cover with thin slices of fat salt pork, sprinkle over it 
one onion minced fine, lay on this a thin slice of 
halibut or any small whole fish split down the middle. 



Fish. 117 

Add one tablespoon of vinegar and spread thickly 
with butter and flour rubbed together. Bake until 
done, the time depending upon the thickness of the 
fish. Remove to a platter. When the pan is buttered 
or pork is laid under the fish, it is easily removed with 
a palate knife. Or a strip of cheese-cloth or tough 
greased paper can be put underneath and be drawn 
out with the fish. 

Mix flour with the butter left in the pan, and add 
water until it is the desired consistency; add two 
tablespoons of cucumber pickles chopped fine. Pour 
this over the fish. Garnish with lemon points and 
parsley. 

Baked Halibut, Stuffed. 

Dip the black side of the skin in scalding water and 
scrape thoroughly. Next cut out the bone, but do 
not disturb the position of the flesh. Place in the 
buttered pan in which it is to be baked. Pull out the 
sides of the slice, making it nearly square in shape 
and leaving a larger space than the bone occupied. 

Melt one ounce of butter, stir in one-half cup of 
cracker crumbs. Season with salt, pepper, and chopped 
onion or chives. Add the slightly beaten white of one 
egg and moisten with strained tomato. Pack firmly 
into the opening in the slice. Pour more of the tomato 
over and bake gently for half an hour if the slice is 
an inch thick. 

Baked Shad. 

Stuff the cleaned fish with buttered crumbs seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Sew and skewer in place, stand 
upright in the pan, brush over with butter, gash at 



n8 Home Science Cook Book. 

uniform distances, and bake about fifteen minutes to 
each pound. At the last add a cup of water with the 
juice of one lemon. Use this to make a brown sauce. 

Boned Fish, Stuffed. 

Cut the flesh from the bones of a three-pound cod or 
haddock in two long strips. Mix a cup of crumbs with 
two tablespoons of melted butter, season with salt and 
pepper, a few drops of onion juice, and a tablespoon of 
lemon juice. Add the whites of two eggs and milk 
enough to moisten the crumbs. Spread this between 
the strips of fish, or put fish and crumbs in layers in a 
buttered oval dish, and invert on a platter when done. 
Skewer together and bake for one-half hour. One-half 
pint of oysters may be added to the stuffing or to a 
white sauce to serve with the fish. 

Fish Rabbit. 

Bone halibut or haddock, cut in sections and dip in 
seasoned butter, and place close together in a deep 
plate. On top spread a mixture of fine crumbs and 
grated cheese moistened with milk and seasoned. 
Bake until the fish is done and the cheese mixture is 
browned. 

Halibut Turbans. 

Remove skin and bone from a thin slice of halibut ; 
a cross-section of fish will thus be divided into four 
fillets. For a pound of halibut melt one tablespoon of 
butter ; add one tablespoon of lemon juice, a few drops 
of onion juice, one saltspoon of salt, and a speck of 
pepper. Dip the fillets in this, then roll in the form 
of turbans, and skewer in place. Put the turbans on 
an agate plate or pan, pour the remainder of the pre- 



Fish. 119 

pared butter over them, and bake fifteen to twenty-five 
minutes. 

Halibut a la Poulette. 

Garnish halibut turbans with hard-boiled eggs and 
serve with white sauce. 

The turbans also may be rolled in egg and crumbs 
and fried in deep fat. In that case serve with them 
tartare sauce in lemon cups made by scooping out a 
half lemon. 

Bass or flounder can be used in the same way. 

Stuffed Smelts. 

Clean the fish, cut down the thin part, and remove 
the backbone by pushing the flesh away from it and 
pulling it out. In each fish put about one tablespoon 
of rich stuffing, then draw the tail through the mouth. 
This will hold the stuffing in place without strings or 
skewers. Brush over with melted butter and bake for 
fifteen minutes. 

Broiled Fish. 

Remove head, tail, and fins, and split open. Remove 
backbone from cod or haddock ; cut large fish in inch 
slices. Brush fish and broiler with melted fat. Broil 
the flesh side until brown, then turn the skin toward 
the coals ; or with the gas stove put broiler and pan in 
the upper oven for the last five minutes. 

Cook from ten to twenty minutes according to 
thickness. 

Planked Shad. 

Tack the shad on a thick oak plank already heated, 
skin side down, and bake in the oven or broil before 
coals or under gas for twenty to thirty minutes. 



I2O Home Science Cook Book. 

Finnan Haddie. 

Parboil five minutes and then broil, as if fresh. 

Salt Mackerel. 

These should be thoroughly freshened by soaking 
flesh side down in water over night or longer; then 
broil or boil. 

Fried Fish. 

Clean, remove as much skin and bone as possible; 
divide large fish in sections of uniform thickness. 
Wipe dry, season slightly, roll in flour, then in egg 
and crumbs, and fry in deep fat like croquettes, or in 
a shallow pan, and turn while cooking. 

Deep fat should be hotter than for doughs and not 
quite so hot as for croquettes, since the fish must have 
time to cook through. About five minutes 'is needed 
to fry fillets or turbans of fish. 

Trout, pickerel or perch are usually rolled in corn- 
meal and cooked with fat salt pork in a frying-pan. 
Large trout may be baked. 

Stuffing for Fish. 

Mix one cup of coarse stale or dry crumbs, either bread 
or cracker, with one-half teaspoon of salt, a little pepper, 
and onion juice, and stir into one ounce of butter 
melted. Moisten with about one-fourth cup of water. 

Lemon juice, vinegar, chopped pickles, capers, 
parsley, one or all, may be added to this stuffing. 

For a dry crumbly stuffing use double the quantity 
of butter and omit the water. 

An egg is added to aid in holding it together and to 
the fish. 



Fish. 121 

Oysters, mushrooms, green peppers, etc., may be 
added to the stuffing. 

Fish Forcemeat. 

Chop any raw white fish and mix with each pound 
two eggs, one cup of thick white sauce (or one cup 
of cream and one cup of white crumbs), and season 
with salt, pepper, lemon and onion juice. Use to stuff 
a whole fish, or to roll up in turbans, or cook by itself 
like croquettes, or steam in a mold, or shape in small 
balls and cook in water to use as a garnish for soups, 
or to serve with a white sauce. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Dip large oysters in melted butter seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and then in fine cracker crumbs. 
Put on a buttered broiler and cook five minutes or more 
until the juice begins to run. 

Fried Oysters. 

Wash large oysters, parboil, drain, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Roll first in seasoned crumbs, then 
dip in beaten egg mixed with one tablespoon of milk ; 
roll in crumbs again. Fry one minute in smoking 
hot lard. Drain on paper. 

Oysters are also fried in batter like tripe. 

Oysters Supreme. 

Parboil one pint of large oysters with a slice of onion, 
bit of mace, and sprig of parsley, and drain. Make a 
thick sauce with one-fourth cup of butter, one-half cup 
of flour, and one pint of oyster liquor and cream. Add 
one beaten egg or two yolks, and cook three minutes 
longer. Season highly with salt and pepper. One- 



122 Home Science Cook Book. 

half cup of mushrooms or chicken chopped fine may be 
added to this paste. Dry the oysters, cover with the 
mixture, and cool on a buttered pan. Then dip in 
egg and crumbs, and fry. Or instead of the sauce use 
mayonnaise dressing. Let them stand five minutes, 
and if they seem moist, dip again in crumbs and cook 
at once in deep, hot fat one minute. 

Steamed Clams. 

Select clams in the shell, wash and scrub thoroughly, 
and change the water until clean. Put them in a 
kettle with a pint of water for half a peck of 
clams. Cover tightly and cook them until the shells 
open. Take out the clams, pour off the liquor care- 
fully into a pitcher, and let it stand until clear, then 
pour off again from the sediment. Serve the clams in 
the shell with cups of the broth and small dishes of 
melted butter. 

Fried Clams. 

Remove steamed clams from the shells, taking off the 
thin membrane on the edge and the black heads. 
Rinse thoroughly, dry on a cloth, dip in batter (page 
91), and fry. 

Clam Fritters. 

Chop twelve large clams very fine, season them 
with salt and black pepper, and stir in one-half cup of 
flour and two well-beaten eggs. When well mixed 
add more flour if too thin, then drop with a spoon into 
hot lard, and when brown skim out, drain on paper, and 
serve. 

Scalloped Clams. 

Cook one-fourth cup of soft bread-crumbs in one-half 



Fish. 123 

cup of milk, and when thick add one tablespoon 
of butter, one saltspoon of salt and pepper, one tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley, and one dozen large clams 
chopped fine. Sift in the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, and then the whites, using a potato ricer. Fill 
large clean shells with the mixture, cover with but- 
tered cracker crumbs, and bake until brown. 

Clam Bouillon. 

Steam the clams in the shells, and clear the liquor 
like any soup stock, seasoning as desired. Serve hot 
or cold in cups with a garnish of whipped cream. 

To Select and Open Lobster. 

Choose one that is heavy, of medium size, with a 
hard shell streaked with black. 

Wipe it, break off the claws, separate the tail from 
the body, and the under part of the body from the 
shell. Remove the meat from the tail, claws, and the 
body, save the green, liver, and the coral, but discard 
the vein in the tail, and the gills, stomach, and head. 
Serve plain, or creamed, or in croquettes, etc. 

Cook lobster only long enough to heat it, as longer 
cooking renders it tough. 

Plain Lobster. 

Cut the meat into small pieces and mix the liver 
with it ; dry the coral and rub it through a strainer 
over the meat. Serve with vinegar, melted butter, or 
with salad dressing; or mash the liver to a smooth 
paste, season it with salt and pepper. Thin it with 
oil or melted butter and vinegar and pour it over the 
lobster. 



124 Home Science Cook Book. 

Stewed Lobster. 

Cut up the lobster. Allow one-half cup of milk to 
one pint of lobster. Heat the milk, add the lobster, 
one tablespoon of butter, and a little pepper. Boil up 
once and serve plain or on crisped crackers. 

Scallops. 

Rinse, parboil slightly in their own liquor, drain, 
and chop. Make a sauce by thickening the liquor 
with butter and flour, season with salt, cayenne, and 
one-fourth teaspoon of mustard. Put sauce and 
scallops together in a shallow dish, cover with crumbs, 
and bake until brown. 

Scallops may be fried or used for soups like oysters. 

Curry of Scallops. 

Put one teaspoon of butter in a saucepan or chafing- 
dish, and when melted add one tablespoon of minced 
onion. After this is browned stir in one teaspoon of 
curry powder. Cook for five minutes, then add one 
pint of white stock, and let it simmer until reduced 
about one-half. Put in one pint of scallops, previously 
parboiled fifteen minutes, and cook from five to ten 
minutes. Add salt to taste. 

Crabs. 

The soft shell crabs cannot be obtained everywhere, 
and should never be used unless alive and in good 
condition. The spongy substance and sand pouch 
must be removed and the crabs rinsed. Then they 
are prepared in many ways like clams and oysters 
and lobsters. 

Hard shelle.d crabs are to be found in the markets 
alive, boiled, and canned. The meat is usually 



Fish. 125 

seasoned, mixed with a sauce, and served in the 
shells. 

Frog's Legs. 

The skin is generally removed before they are sent to 
market. Blanch for five minutes in boiling water con- 
taining salt and lemon juice. Wipe dry and dip in 
batter, or egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat until 
brown. Or parboil and serve with a sauce. 

Shad Roe. 

Parboil the roe in salted water for five or ten min- 
utes and drain. Then it may be seasoned and dipped 
in melted butter, and broiled or baked. Or it may be 
mashed, combined with seasoning, a few crumbs and 
beaten egg to hold all together, and then be shaped in 
balls or small croquettes which are rolled in egg and 
crumb and fried in deep fat. 

Shrimps. 

Fresh or canned shrimps may be used like lobster, 
in salads or in cream sauce, or as a garnish. 



126 Home Science Cook Book. 



Meats. 

Roast Beef. 

Wipe, trim, and tie or skewer into shape. If there 
be a large piece of flank, reserve for soups or stews. 
Lay the meat on a rack in a pan, sprinkle the fat with 
salt and pepper, dredge all over with flour, and put it 
in a very hot oven, skin side down at first, that the 
heat may harden the juices in the lean part. When 
the meat is seared, baste with the fat and reduce the 
heat. Baste often and dredge with flour. When seared 
all over, turn and bring the skin side up for the final 
basting and browning. Bake twelve to fifteen minutes 
to each pound. If there be any danger of burning the 
fat in the pan, add a little hot water after the flour is 
browned. 

Larded Fillet of Beef. 

Trim the fat and gristle from the rump tenderloin. 
Cut strips of fat salt pork two inches long and one- 
fourth inch thick from near the skin, chill them, and 
with a larding needle draw into the upper side of the 
fillet. Sprinkle the meat with salt, pepper, and flour, 
and bake for about thirty minutes, basting two or 
three times. 

Serve with brown gravy with or without mushrooms, 
or with tomato or horseradish sauce. 

Pot Roast or Braised Beef. 

Four to six pounds from the middle or face of the 
rump, the vein, or the round. Wipe and sear all over 



Meats. 127 

in a frying-pan or under the gas flame. Add one cup 
of water, and place it where it will cook slowly. Use 
only water enough to keep the meat from burning, and 
have the cover fit closely to keep in the steam. Cook 
until very tender, but do not let it break. Serve hot 
or cold. The meat, cut in quarter-inch slices, may be 
reheated in hot butter 

Thin Roasts and Thick Steaks. 

Between these cuts there is no dividing line, yet 
both are still bugbears to many housekeepers. With 
a gas range there is no difficulty ; the meat is placed on 
the broiler pan close to the flame until the one side is 
well seared, and then the other has its turn. Then 
the pan is moved further away from the flame, giving 
the heat a chance to reach the center without burn- 
ing the outside, and the meat is turned again. 

The same plan must be followed with other fuels 
intense heat at first to sear the outside, then moderate 
heat to strike through the meat. First sear the meat 
over the coals or in a hot frying-pan without fat in it. 
Then finish cooking a thin roast in the oven. 

Broiled Beefsteak. 

Any tender section may be cut in steaks; loin, 
rump, and round each has its merits. Let the steak 
be cut just before cooking, and be more rather than 
less than an inch thick. Remove all the bone and 
gristle possible without 16ss of juice before cooking. 

Brush over with oil or melted butter. Place near 
the heat at first until well browned, then move away, 
giving the heat opportunity to reach the center with- 
out danger of burning the outside. The time will 




128 Home Science Cook Book. 

vary from five to fifteen minutes according to thick- 
ness, degree of heat applied, and the taste of the 
eaters. Prepared butters, anchovy, parsley, maitre 
d'hotel, etc., may be put on the steak or served in a 
separate dish. 

Hamburg Steaks. 

Chop fine one pound of raw lean beef or mutton with a 
small amount of fat. Salt pork may supply what the 
meat lacks. Season with one teaspoon of salt, a shake 
of pepper, and a few drops of onion juice. Shape in 
oval cakes about three-quarters of an inch thick. 
Broil or cook in a hot frying-pan from eight to ten 
minutes; more time is usually required than for a 
whole steak of the same thickness. 

The meat may be put through a meat chopper more 
than once if it is desired to make it into a smoother 
mass. 

Beef Cutlets. 

Use any clear sections, not tender enough to cook 
quickly. Cut in convenient pieces for serving, and 
broil long enough to sear the outside. Then put in a 
pan with brown gravy or tomato sauce to cover, and 
cook in the oven at moderate heat for two hours or 
more. 

Pressed Beef. 

Prepare any of the less expensive cuts of beef for 
boiling. Season with salt, three whole cloves, and a 
large tablespoon of vinegar to each four pounds of 
meat. Cook slowly in a little water until tender. Re- 
move all bones and skin and chop fine, adding more 
seasoning if desired. Place in a stone vessel and press. 



Meats. 129 

When quite cold and firm the beef will slice easily. 
Serve cold, or dip slices in beaten eggs and bread- 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

Smothered Beef. 

Remove bone, skin, and gristle, and cut in uniform 
pieces ; sprinkle with salt, pepper, and flour. Put in a 
bean pot in the oven, or in a covered dish in a steamer, 
and cook for two hours, or until tender. 

Make a brown sauce from the broth, or reserve that 
for soup, and serve the meat with a tomato sauce. 

Any other meat can be prepared in the same way. 

Corned Beef. 

Choose a piece of beef which has a fair proportion 
of fat, and has not been in the brine many days. 
Cover with boiling water and skim carefully when it 
begins to boil. Very salt meat may be put on in cold 
water. Cook slowly, until so tender that it can be 
picked to pieces with a fork. 

Let the water boil away toward the last, and let the 
beef stand in the water until partially cooled. Then 
lift it out of the water, and pack in a brick-loaf pan, 
letting the long fibers run the length of the pan; mix 
in the fat so that it will be well marbled, and press 
until cold. 

Beef's Liver. 

The liver should be cut in half-inch slices and left 
for ten minutes in boiling water. Then drain, remove 
skin, etc., dip in melted pork or bacon fat, and broil 
for five minutes or more, or fry. 

Calf's Liver. 

Prepare in the same way as beef's liver. The thicker 



130 Home Science Cook Book. 

portion may be stuffed with crumbs, or larded with 
bacon or pork, and baked or braised, and served hot or 
cold. 

Lamb's Liver. 

This liver is delicate, and is not used as much as it 
deserves. It may be broiled, fried, or minced. 

Minced Liver. 

Boil any liver half an hour, remove all stringy por- 
tions, and chop fine. Moisten with stock or water and 
butter, and season with salt and pepper. 

Serve hot with toast or potatoes. 

Tripe. 

As it comes from the market, tripe is usually cooked 
and often pickled. More cooking 1 is generally needed 
to make it perfectly tender and, if pickled, to remove 
some of the vinegar. Then it is ready to prepare in 
different ways. 

Almost any other tender cooked meat may be pre- 
pared in any of the ways suggested for the tripe. 

Broiled Tripe. 

Have the tripe boiled tender and thoroughly cooled 
and dried. Cut it in pieces to fit the broiler, cover 
with cracker dust, let it stand five minutes, then 
spread all over with melted butter or olive oil, and 
dust again with the fine cracker. Lay the tripe on the 
broiler and cook the smooth side first until slightly 
brown, then turn and brown the other side. Serve it 
with the honeycomb side up, that it may hold the gen- 
erous portion of butter flavored with salt, pepper, and 
lemon juice, which is the best dressing for it, though 
for variety it may be served with mayonnaise tartare. 



Meats. 131 

Tripe in Batter. 

Tripe fried in crumbs is liable to be dry and horny ; 
therefore, it is better to dip it in a batter, in which case 
the batter is crisp, but the tripe inside will be tender. 
After boiling and drying cut the tripe in pieces suita- 
ble for serving. Dip them in a batter, until well cov- 
ered, but drain off all that will not adhere. Fry slices 
of fat salt pork until crisp and cook the tripe in the 
hot fat, turning when one side is brown. Drain it on 
soft paper and serve with the pork scraps; garnish 
with parsley. 

Tripe Lyonnaise. 

Cut tender tripe in half-inch squares. For each 
cupful fry one tablespoon of chopped onion in one 
tablespoon of hot butter until slightly brown, turn in 
the tripe, and toss about until it absorbs the butter and 
is a delicate brown. Sprinkle over it salt, paprika, 
minced parsley, and one tablespoon of lemon juice or 
tarragon vinegar, and serve hot. 

Scalloped Tripe. 

Take one pint of tender tripe cut in half-inch pieces, 
one-half cup of grated Parmesan or other dry cheese, 
and one and one-half cups of tomato sauce. Butter a 
baking dish suitable for serving, put in a layer of 
tripe, sprinkle with salt, pepper, or paprika, and thickly 
with the cheese, and moisten with the sauce. Then 
arrange another layer of each and cover with one-half 
cup of cracker crumbs moistened with melted butter. 
Flavor the tomato sauce quite strongly with onion, fry- 
ing it first in the butter. Bake in a hot oven until the 
crumbs are brown. 



132 Home Science Cook Book. 

Tripe a la Poulette. 

Cut tender tripe in small pieces and add to a rich, 
white sauce. Stew over a gentle heat for twenty min- 
utes, and season with lemon juice and minced parsley. 
For one pint quickly sty: in the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. The sauce should be so thick that the tripe will 
be merely moistened with it, and may be piled in a 
mound on the dish. Garnish with small boiled onions 
or stewed celery or mushrooms. 

Stuffed Tripe. 

Cut tender tripe in pieces four inches square. Spread 
with poultry stuffing moist with beaten egg. Roll up 
and tie or skewer, steam for half an hour, then brown 
in the oven or under a gas flame. 

Mutton and Lamb. 

These meats are used less than they should be. The 
strong flavor of the older meat may be reduced by re- 
moving the pink skin on the fat and a part of the 
latter. A little lemon juice or vinegar and a bit of 
bay-leaf put in the water in which mutton is stewed or 
parboiled before roasting will make the flavor more 
agreeable to many. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton or Lamb. 

Remove outer fat and tough bits of skin, trim, 
scrape, and wipe. Put in a deep kettle of boiling 
water, let it come quickly to the boiling point again, 
and remove the froth that rises. Then place the kettle 
where it cannot boil, but will keep at a temperature of 
i8o-i9o Fahr. Allow at least a half hour of such 
cooking for each pound of meat. ^ 

Reserve the water for soups. 



Meats. 133 

Roast Lamb. 

Remove the caul, any superfluous fat, and the end 
of leg if that cut is used. Wipe, sear the cut end, or 
wherever there is any lean meat exposed. Dredge 
with salt, pepper, and flour. Put on a rack in drip- 
ping pan in hot oven, and when the flour is browned, 
add a little hot water, and baste every fifteen minutes. 
Reduce the heat and bake about one hour and a half. 
Serve with mint sauce. 

The leg may be boned and stuffed. 

Crown Roast of Lamb. 

This requires ten or twelve rib chops from two 
loins. Have the backbone well trimmed, the ribs cut 
even and separated slightly, but the meat left uncut. 
Tie in circular shape, the meat inside, and sew or 
skewer together. Protect the bones with paper or 
pork. Season, bake one hour or more. Serve peas, 
carrots, or puree of chestnuts, or potato in the center. 

Saddle of Mutton. 

The loin is left whole instead of being divided 
through the center of the backbone as it is for chops. 
It should be well trimmed and treated like any other 
roast. 

Mutton Chops. 

Wipe with a wet cloth ; remove the skin and extra 
fat; have a frying-pan hissing hot, without any fat; 
put in the chops and cook one minute, turn, and sear 
the other side ; cook more slowly until done, five min- 
utes if liked rare. Stand them up on the fat edge to 
brown the fat, without overcooking the meat. When 



134 Home Science Cook Book. 

nearly done sprinkle a little salt on each side. Drain 
on paper, and serve hot. 

Breaded Chops. 

Chops may be dipped in egg and crumbs and fried 
in deep fat for about five minutes. 

Stuffed Chops. 

Remove the bone and tough portion from six chops 
cut from the loin or ribs. Make a dressing of stale 
bread crumbled, highly seasoned with salt, pepper, 
cayenne, and a little powdered thyme, moistened with 
melted butter, one well-beaten egg, and enough hot 
water to make it spread easily. Lay the chops in a 
dripping pan with some of the surplus fat under them. 
Spread the dressing smoothly all over the top of each, 
place them in a hot oven, and bake about twenty 
minutes or until brown. Or divide the chop nearly 
through to the bone and put the stuffing between the 
two layers of meat. 

Shoulder of Lamb or Mutton. 

Remove the shoulder blade, back and leg bones, any 
fine crumbs of bone or stringy membranes. Wipe and 
rub slightly with salt. Stuff or not as preferred. Roll 
or fold into shape and tie securely. Put it into boiling 
salted water to cover, remove the scum as soon as the 
water boils again, then turn the meat over and skim 
again. Let it cook gently. When it is nearly tender 
remove it from the water, drain it, and place it in a 
baking pan. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour and 
brown under the broiling burner, or bake until brown 
and crisp on the surface. Baste occasionally with some 
of the fat and water from the kettle and dredge with 



Meats. 135 

flour after basting. The whole process will take from 
two and a half to three hours. 

When the meat is sufficiently browned remove it to 
a hot dish, take out the strings from the meat, and in 
serving cut at right angles with the back edge. 

The bones and remainder of a fore-quarter will fur- 
nish material for a soup or stew. 

Curry of Mutton. 

Cut two pounds of lean mutton into small pieces 
and brown them in hot fat ; put them in a curry sauce 
and simmer until tender. Place the meat on a hot 
dish and arrange a border of boiled rice around the 
meat. Slices of cold cooked mutton may be used in- 
stead of the fresh meat. Veal curry is prepared in 
the same manner. 

Veal. 

This meat is seldom boiled, since it lacks flavor in 
itself and needs that developed by high temperature 
or savory herbs. It may be roasted or broiled like 
other meats, but should not be left rare. 

Fricassees, stews, and pot pies are especially suita- 
ble ways to use the poorer portions of veal. It is very 
useful to combine with chicken for salads and cro- 
quettes. 

Veal Chops. 

These are cut from the loin and ribs and correspond 
to the sirloin and rib steaks in beef, and to the chops 
in mutton. They are generally more tender than the 
cutlets from the leg, just as sirloin steak is more 
tender than that from the round. 

Trim the chops and remove the bone if preferred. 



136 Home Science Cook Book. 

Press into compact shape and season slightly. Roll 
in fine cracker crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, then 
in seasoned crumbs, and cook carefully in the hot fat, 
adding more butter or salt pork fat if needed. Do 
not let them become too brown. Drain and serve, gar- 
nished with the crisp fat and fried sliced kidney and a 
bit of parsley. 

Veal Cutlets. 

The loin and thickest part of the leg of veal are 
commonly used for steaks or cutlets, but a nice dish 
may be prepared from cheaper parts, if one will take 
the time to do it properly. 

Take a slice from the lower part of the leg, or from 
the shoulder, where considerable lean meat is found. 
Wipe it and remove the tough membranes, skin, and 
bones, and put them in the soup kettle. Cut the lean 
meat into pieces for serving, and pound them until the 
fiber is all broken. Lap one piece over another, put 
the small bits all together, and pound and press them 
into the shape you wish. In this way you can use 
every little scrap of meat, and have the cutlets of 
uniform shape and tenderness. Season well with salt 
and pepper, roll in fine bread-crumbs, dip in beaten 
egg or flour batter, and then in crumbs again. Brown 
the cutlets in hot salt pork fat. Put the cutlets in a 
stew-pan, add two tablespoons of flour to the fat left in 
the pan, and, when well mixed, pour on gradually one 
pint of hot water, or the water in which the bones and 
trimmings have been simmering. Add half a cup of 
ketchup, and pour the gravy over the cutlets. Let 
them simmer half an hour, or until perfectly tender. 
Remove them to a platter, skim off the fat from the 



Meats. 137 

gravy, add more hot water if it be too thick, season to 
taste, and strain it over the cutlets. They should be 
tender enough to cut with a spoon. Garnish with 
lemon and parsley. 

This method of cooking veal cutlet will be found a 
great improvement over the common fried veal. Por- 
tions that are too tough for frying will be rendered as 
tender as chicken. 

The cutlets may be dipped in flour instead of egg 
and crumbs, but will not hold together as well. 

Calf's Heart, Liver, and Tongue. 

Clean and put the heart and tongue in cold water, 
bring to a boil quickly, and skim. Add salt; when 
nearly done put in the liver, first scalding it. When 
the meat is tender remove it, and season the liquor to 
taste. Thicken it with flour wet in cold water, or 
cooked in hot butter. Add half as much strained 
tomato as liquor. Put the liver in the center of the 
platter, with alternate slices of the heart and tongue 
round the edge. Pour the tomato sauce over the 
whole. Chop fine all that is left over, and warm it in 
the tomato sauce, and serve it on toast. 

Spiced Tongue or Calf's Heart. 

Boil a fresh tongue until the skin will peel. Trim 
off the roots, and rub the tongue all over with a mix- 
ture of one teaspoon of allspice, half a teaspoon each 
of pepper and ginger, then dredge with flour. Fry 
one minced onion in two tablespoons of butter, then 
brown the tongue all over. Put it in stew-pan, add flour 
to the butter left in the pan, and about a pint of water, 
or enough to make a thin gravy. Pour it over the 



138 Home Science Cook Book. 

tongue, add half a cup of raisins and half a cup of 
vinegar. Stew until tender and serve with the gravy. 
Prepare a calf's heart in the same way, stuffing the 
cavity with raisins rolled in the spice. 

Calf's Brains. 

Soak in cold water for an hour, changing it twice 
and adding some vinegar and salt to the last water. 
Then tie in cheese-cloth and put in boiling water with 
seasoning, and cook for twenty minutes. Drain and 
blanch in cold water. 

Then, like sweatbreads, they may be prepared in 
many ways, breaded and fried, or served with a white, 
brown, or tomato sauce, or added to croquettes, etc. 

Sweetbreads. 

Soak in cold water half an hour, parboil fifteen min- 
utes in water with a little salt and lemon juice in it, 
then put in cold water. 

They are then ready to broil, to serve in a cream or 
other sauce, or as a salad. 

Meat Loaf. 

Two pounds of raw beef, mutton, or veal, or two 
kinds together, chopped fine with one-fourth pound of 
fat salt pork. Season with two teaspoons of salt, a 
little pepper, and one teaspoon of mixed herbs. Mix 
with one-half cup of cracker or dry bread-crumbs and 
two beaten eggs. Pack in a mold and steam for two 
hours. Then brown in the oven, basting with melted 
butter. Serve hot or cold. 

Boiled Ham. 

Brush and clean a large ham in lukewarm water in 



Meats. 139 

which a teaspoon of borax has been dissolved, and 
soak in cold water over night. In the morning" shave 
off the hardened surface. Put it into a large kettle 
and cover with cold water. Let it heat slowly, and as 
it begins to boil remove the scum. Keep the kettle 
where it will barely bubble, and let it cook till tender ; 
allow twenty minutes or more to the pound from the 
time simmering begins. If a fork will pierce through 
the thickest part and the skin will peel off easily, it is 
done. Let it remain in the liquor until cold. Then 
peel off the skin. Mix one cup of fine cracker crumbs, 
half a cup of brown sugar, one saltspoon of pepper, 
and one saltspoon of powdered tarragon, and moisten 
slightly with melted butter. Spread this thickly over 
the fat surface, and return to the oven till brown and 
crisp. 

After using the best portions of a ham for broiling 
and frying, the remainder may be boiled. Cook slowly 
until the bones slip out. Drain it from the water, and 
pack the meat in a pan, the fibers all one way, lean 
alternating with the fat, and press it until cold and 
firm 

Broiled Ham. 

Ham is better broiled than fried. Cut thin and 
soak it an hour in lukewarm water. Drain, wipe, and 
broil five minutes. 

Boiled ham may be cut in thick slices and broiled. 

Bacon. 

Keep the bacon in a cold place that it may be hard 
and firm before slicing. Shave off the hard, lean 
strip, also the smoked edges and rind as far back on 
the strip as required for one meal. Then with a very 



140 Home Science Cook Book. 

sharp knife shave off in slices not more than an eighth 
of an inch thick. The smoky edges may be pared off 
easily with scissors. Put on a tin plate or pan, and 
cook in the oven till much of the fat is extracted and 
the bacon is left crisp, but not too brown. The slices 
may be laid in a fine wire-broiler and cooked over a 
clear hot fire, or the broiler laid in a pan and the 
whole placed in a hot oven until done. Serve alone or 
with eggs, beefsteak, veal cutlets, liver, or oysters. 

Save all the fat when cooking bacon, and use it 
afterward for frying potatoes, eggs, liver, or wherever 
the bacon flavor would be agreeable. This is much 
better for chafing-dish cookery than to attempt to cook 
the bacon at the table. 

Roast Pig. 

A pig for this purpose should not be over three or 
four weeks old, and ought not to be kept more than a 
day or two after it is killed. The skin of a larger pig 
will not develop that desirable " crackle" which 
Charles Lamb has so fully described. The pig may 
be dressed in the market, and then is to be cleaned, 
stuffed, and roasted much like poultry. The fore legs 
are usually skewered forward and the hind legs back, 
though some cooks prefer to bring both forward. The 
mouth is generally fastened open with a piece of wood 
or a cob, that it may afterward admit the traditional 
apple. The ears should be protected with buttered 
paper. Cook in moderate heat three hours or more, 
basting frequently. Sometimes a stuffing of rice flav- 
ored with Parmesan cheese is used, but usually a 
bread stuffing is preferred. This may be seasoned 
with any combination of herbs. 



Meats. 141 

Broiled Pork Chops. 

Have the chops cut thin. Wipe with a damp cloth. 
Put them in a saucepan and cover with boiling water. 
Let them simmer for half an hour. Remove from the 
fire and dredge lightly with salt, pepper, and flour; 
then broil until a light brown. Garnish with parsley. 

Surprise Sausages. 

Parboil the sausages, divide in half, and remove the 
skins. Wrap in mashed potatoes, then dip in beaten 
egg, and coat with bread-crumbs. Fry in deep fat 
until crisp and brown. Serve these very hot. 

Crown of Pork. 

Prepare the ribs of a young pig like the crown of 
lamb. 

Roast Chicken. 

Pick out pin-feathers and singe. Remove crop and 
windpipe from the neck; heart, liver, and gizzard, 
and afterward lungs arid kidneys from below, oil 
gland from outside. Wash quickly and wipe dry. 
Stuff and truss. If an old bird, steam for an hour or 
more, then roast one hour. 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken or Turkey. 

For each cup of crumbs, either cracker or bread, 
allow one ounce of butter, one teaspoon of mixed 
herbs, one-half teaspoon of salt, and a little pepper. 
Melt the butter, add the crumbs, and mix thoroughly. 
Moisten slightly with either milk or water. 

For a crumbly stuffing use twice as much butter and 
no liquid. 



142 Home Science Cook Book. 

Broiled Chicken. 

Split a young chicken down the back, flatten as 
much as possible, and brush over with melted butter. 
Broil over coals and finish in the oven, or under gas 
for twenty to thirty minutes. 

Southern Fried Chicken. 

Split a tender chicken down the back, flatten it a 
little, season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, 
and brown in a generous quantity of hot pork fat or 
lard. Cover the frying-pan, and do not hurry the 
cooking. Cook about thirty minutes. 

Smothered Chicken. 

This differs from the fried chicken in using less fat 
half butter and half lard gives a finer flavor. After 
browning add a little stock or water and simmer until 
tender. A few drops of cream give the finishing touch 
to the sauce. 

To Cut up a Fowl for Stewing. 

Remove pin-feathers, singe the hairs, and rub off 
clean. Cut off the oil gland. Take off feet, first pull- 
ing out the tendons. Remove windpipe and crop at the 
neck. Cut through the skin, press back leg and thigh 
bones and cut at the joint, then take off the wings. 
Divide each of these in two parts. From the back- 
bone cut through thin muscles, then notice position of 
inside organs. Remove heart, liver, and gizzard 
together. Break backbone into two sections and take 
out lungs, kidneys, etc. Loosen shoulder blade and 
cut from wing joint to point of ribs to separate back 
and breast. Open gizzard, detach gall bag from the 
liver without breaking. 



Meats. 143 

Rinse quickly in cold water, cover with boiling water, 
and cook gently until tender, from one to three hours. 

For a fricassee, the meat may be browned in hot fat 
before stewing or after. 

Chicken Livers. 

Clean the livers thoroughly, cutting off any green 
portions. Cook in boiling water for fifteen minutes, 
drain, and brown in a little bacon fat. Remove the 
livers, put one ounce of butter with the small quantity 
of fat left in the pan, and brown in it two tablespoons 
of flour. When brown pour in one cup of hot stock, 
and season with salt, pepper, and curry if desired. 
Reheat the livers in the sauce, and serve at once. 

Livers en Brochette. 

After parboiling, divide each liver in three or four 
pieces, put on skewers with alternate bits of bacon. 
Broil or bake till bacon is crisp. Serve on the 
skewers. 

Chicken Liver Balls. 

Rub the uncooked liver of a large chicken through a 
strainer; add one beaten egg, half a tablespoon of 
butter creamed, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, a few 
grains of paprika, and one teaspoon of fine chopped 
parsley. Add soft bread-crumbs or fine cracker dust 
until the mixture may be shaped into marbles. Drop 
them into boiling water or stock ; cook five minutes, 
and serve in soup. Or force the mixture through a 
squash strainer into boiling water; boil a minute or 
two and drain. It has the effect of browned rice. 

Roast Turkey. 

Choose a hen turkey weighing about eight pounds. 



144 Home Science Cook Book. 

Singe, remove pin- feathers, oil bag, tendons, entrails, 
and crop. Wipe, stuff, and truss the feet to the tail, 
the wings close to the side, and the neck skin to the 
shoulder blade. Rub with salt, pepper, butter, and 
dredge with flour. Put the turkey fat in the pan, lay 
the turkey on one side, and put it in hot oven. When 
the flour is brown, check the heat, baste with butter 
melted in hot- water, and roast nearly three hours. 
Add a pint of water as soon as the fat is brown, baste 
every twenty minutes, and turn the turkey so it will 
brown evenly. 

Roast Goose. 

A young or " green" goose is recognized by its 
pliable yellow feet and its tender windpipe ; as it grows 
older the down on its legs disappears and the feet 
grow darker colored. The skin is so fat and greasy 
that a thorough washing is necessary, and warm soda 
water may be used for this purpose before the bird is 
drawn. Then remove the internal organs as from a 
chicken or turkey, and wash quickly in clear water, 
and wipe dry. Roast like a turkey, pouring off the oil 
as it gathers in the pan. Serve with giblet sauce, 
made by adding to a brown gravy the liver, heart, 
and gizzard, which have been boiled till tender and 
then chopped. 

Stuffing for Goose. 

Use hot mashed potato highly seasoned with salt, 
pepper, and parboiled onions or onion juice. Moisten 
with one tablespoon of butter and the yolk of an egg 
to each cup of potato. A sprinkle of sage may be 
added. 



Meats. 145 

Roast Mallard or Teal Ducks. 

Singe, draw, and remove all the tiny pin-feathers. 
Then wash very quickly both inside and out with cool 
water and wipe perfectly dry. Stuff the ducks, sew, 
and truss. Put on a rack in a pan, sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, and a little flour. Cover with small slices of 
salt pork and put into a very hot oven. In about five 
minutes the ducks will be light brown. Now reduce 
the heat and pour into the pan a very little water. The 
dripping fat will burn unless a little hot water is added. 
Baste every four or five minutes. In forty minutes 
the ducks will be sufficiently cooked if liked a trifle 
rare, but many prefer a longer cooking. When nearly 
done, the pork must be removed and the birds evenly 
browned on all sides. 

Stuffing for Duck. 

Equal parts of boiled onions, chopped sour apples, 
and dried bread-crumbs are mixed, moistened with a 
little melted butter, and seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and sage. 



146 Home Science Cook Book. 



Vegetables. 

General Directions for Cooking Vegetables. 

Select the vegetables carefully, choosing each in the 
season when it is at its best. 

Those which are sent to market from a great dis- 
tance are expensive and usually wilted, and so unsat- 
isfactory that we tire of them by the time local garden 
products are in their prime. Many of the vegetables 
in the markets are overgrown and, therefore, tough 
and unpalatable. 

All vegetables must be well cleaned before cooking, 
and a small scrubbing brush and a sharp-pointed knife 
are great helps in this process. 

Wilted vegetables sometimes may be freshened by 
soaking or sprinkling with water before cooking. 

The water in which strong flavored vegetables are 
cooked should be changed several times. All others 
should be cooked in little water that sugary juices 
may be retained. On this account steaming or baking 
is sometimes better. 

Color is retained best when vegetables are boiled in 
an uncovered kettle, and the odor of onions and cab- 
bage is less disagreeable in the house. Vegetables 
should be put in boiling water, which is usually salted 
at first. If the water is hard a very little soda may be 
added. Any vegetable may be served in many differ- 
ent forms, plain, with various sauces, in a soup or a 
salad or croquettes. 

Artichokes. 

French artichokes are expensive usually and but a 



Vegetables. 147 

small part is edible. The stem, outside leaves, and 
choke must be removed. Cook in boiling salted water 
until a leaf can be pulled out, about thirty minutes. 
Drain and serve with melted butter or Hollandaise 
sauce. Or serve cold with mayonnaise. 

The artichoke bottoms after boiling and seasoning 
may be dipped in batter and fried in deep fat. 

Jerusalem artichokes are pickled or served as a 
salad. They may be pared, put into vinegar and water 
to prevent discoloring, then boiled tender, and served 
with a white sauce. 

Asparagus. 

Break off tough lower end, wash the stalks, and 
cook them in boiling salted water from twenty to forty- 
five minutes, until tender. Or break in inch pieces, 
scraping off the lower end, cooking tough portions first 
and adding tips for fifteen minutes. Serve on buttered 
toast or with white or Hollandaise sauce. The water 
where the asparagus was boiled may be used to soften 
the toast, or in the sauce, or for a soup. 

The asparagus with sauce may be served in rolls 
crisped in the oven after the centers are removed and 
the sides spread with butter. 

Left-over asparagus may be used for soup or salad 
or in an omelet. 

Baked Beans. 

Soak one quart of pea beans over night in cold water. 
In the morning put them into fresh water and simmer 
until they burst slightly on removing a few of them in 
a spoon and blowing on them. One-fourth teaspoon 
of soda is often put in this water when the beans are 
parboiled. Then turn them into a colander and drain 



148 Home Science Cook Book. 

thoroughly, and place in the small-top earthen bean pot. 
Wash one-quarter to one-half of a pound of salt pork, 
part fat and part lean, scrape the rind till white, and 
cut it one inch deep in half -inch strips. Bury the 
pork in the beans, leaving only the rind in sight. Mix 
one teaspoon of salt and one-fourth cup or less of 
molasses with some water and pour over the beans. 
Add enough more water to cover them, and keep add- 
ing hot water as needed until the last hour. Bake 
from eight to twelve hours in a slow oven, the longer 
the better, so long as the beans are kept moist. One- 
half teaspoon of dry mustard may be added with the 
salt and molasses. Sugar may be used instead of 
molasses and part butter instead of all pork. 

Vegetarians leave out the pork and add one table- 
spoon of olive oil for each cup of dry beans after they 
are partially baked. 

Some housekeepers use a piece of fat corned beef 
in place of pork. 

Fresh shelled beans may be baked in the same way. 

Stewed Beans. 

Soak any dry beans from twelve to twenty-four 
hours. Parboil as for baked beans, drain, add more 
water, and stew until tender. Season with butter, 
salt, and pepper. 

Split peas may be prepared in the same way. A 
piece of salt pork or bacon is often stewed with them. 

Spanish Beans. 

One-half cup of sliced onions, stewed until tender, 
one cup of stewed beans, one cup of stewed tomatoes. 
Boil together until thick enough to serve on the 



Vegetables. 149 

dinner plate. Season to taste with butter, salt, and 
cayenne pepper. 

String Beans. 

Break off the ends, pulling off the strings. Cut or 
break the pods in inch pieces and freshen in cold 
water. Cook until tender, one hour or more, in boiling 
water slightly salted. Drain and season as desired. 

Any left-overs may be served as a salad. 

Shell Beans. 

Cook, in boiling water, changing it after fifteen 
minutes, and letting it evaporate at the last, until just 
enough is left to moisten the beans. 

Beets. 

Wash, but do not cut them, as that destroys the 
sweetness and color. Cook in boiling water until 
tender. Young beets will cook in one hour, or less, 
old beets require a longer time, and if tough, wilted, 
or stringy, they will never boil tender. When cooked, 
put them in cold water, and rub off the skin. 

Young beets are cut in slices, and served hot with 
butter, salt, and pepper, or cut in small cubes and 
served in a white sauce. They are often pickled in 
vinegar, spiced or plain, and served cold, or they may 
be cut into dice, and mixed with other vegetables for 
a salad. 

Beet greens may have roots as large as a radish. 
Wash, boil till tender, drain, and mold, but keep hot. 

Cabbage. 

All varieties are prepared in the same way. Cut in 
quarter or smaller sections and freshen in cold water. 



150 Home Science Cook Book. 

Cook uncovered in boiling salted water about thirty 
minutes. The addition of a little soda reduces the 
odor while cooking 1 , and aids in softening the cabbage. 
Drain thoroughly and serve hot or cold with or 
without a sauce. 

Scalloped Cabbage. 

Mix cooked cabbage with half as much white sauce, 
season, put in a dish, cover with buttered crumbs, 
and bake until hot and brown. 

German Cabbage. 

Cut fine and stew with an ounce of butter for each 
quart. Very little water is required, as the kettle is 
kept covered. Red cabbage is preferred for this. It 
is seasoned with a little onion, nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper while cooking. Vinegar and sugar in small 
quantities may be added just before serving. 

Cauliflower and Brussels Sprouts. 

These are members of the cabbage family, and are 
cooked like cabbage, but generally require less time. 

A sprinkle of Parmesan cheese is sometimes added 
to creamed or scalloped cabbage or cauliflower. 

Carrots. 

Young ones, even if whole, will cook in half an 
hour or less. Old ones should be scraped, cut in 
strips or cubes, and soaked, then cooked until tender. 
Let the water evaporate at the last. Season with salt, 
pepper, and butter, or use white sauce and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley. For variety season with sugar 
and lemon juice. 



Vegetables. 151 

Celery. 

Remove the nails, cut off the root, and trim off the 
hard outside part. The root if tender is sweet in a 
salad ; if tough it may be used to flavor soup stock. 

Separate the stalks and wash them, but do not 
scrape them to remove the rusty portions unless to be 
used at once, for scraping off the outer skin makes the 
stalk decay more quickly. 

If the celery is wilted, let it remain in the cold 
water some time. Lay aside the inner stalks and the 
lower ends of all that are white and tender, also all 
the yellow or blanched young leaves. Wrap them in 
a wet napkin and put them in a cool place, and use 
these portions for salads, scraping them off before 
serving. They will keep fresh and crisp for a week or 
ten days by changing the napkin occasionally. 

The delicate yellow leaves of the celery make one of 
the prettiest garnishings, and may be used in place of 
lettuce as the basis of salads. 

Fringed Celery. 

Chill and clean the celery, cut into pieces three 
inches long, and slit each end down about three 
quarters of an inch into fine threads less than an 
eighth of an inch thick. Keep in ice- water until 
curly ; drain, and arrange in a low glass dish. 

Stewed Celery. 

Cut the stalks into inch pieces, put them into 
boiling water, and cook until tender. Then drain, 
reserving the water for soup, and serve the celery 
dressed with butter, salt, and pepper, or with a white 
sauce. 



152 Home Science Cook Book. 

Corn Fritters. 

To each cup of corn pulp cut from the cob add one 
beaten egg, a tablespoon of milk (omit the milk if the 
corn is young and juicy), and flour to make a stiff 
batter, about one- fourth cup. If cooked corn is used a 
little more milk should be added. Season highly with 
salt and pepper, and fry in small portions on a griddle 
or in deep fat. Serve as a border for a platter of meat. 

Corn Pudding or Timbale. 

One can of corn chopped fine, or one pint of corn 
pulp cut from the cob, two eggs beaten, one-fourth 
cup of milk (omit the milk if the corn is very liquid), 
one-half teaspoon of salt, a speck of pepper. Bake 
in a buttered pudding-dish or tin timbale cups from 
twenty to thirty minutes, or till firm like a custard. 
Serve hot with meat. 

Green Corn. 

After removing husks and silk, the ears of corn may 
be roasted over coals or under the gas flame, or 
steamed or boiled. Tender corn will be ready to 
serve in ten minutes. 

Cucumbers. 

Large cucumbers, after removing skin and seeds, 
may be cut in strips, stewed in butter, and served on 
toast like asparagus, or mashed like summer squash. 
Or they may be cut in slices, dipped in batter, and 
fried in deep fat, like egg-plant. To serve raw cut off 
both ends till the seeds show, pare, and slice into cold 
water an hour before serving. 

Greens. 

Thorough washing is the most important part of 



Vegetables. 153 

preparation. All kinds dandelion, beet, spinach, 
etc. are cooked in a small quantity of water until 
tender, and drained, then chopped, seasoned, and 
heated again. 

Fried Egg- Plant. 

Slice one-third of an inch thick, sprinkle with salt, 
and press out the juice. Drain, and dip each slice first 
in fine crumbs, then in beaten egg, and again in 
crumbs, and saute them in hot fat. 

Stuffed Egg-Plant. 

Cut off a slice from the stalk end and remove the 
inside without breaking the skin. Cook ten minutes 
in boiling salted water. Slice and parboil one small 
onion. Chop the egg-plant and onion, add half a cup 
of soft bread-crumbs, a little salt and pepper, one 
tablespoon of butter or cream, and one beaten egg. 
Fill the shell, put the slice back on the top, and bake 
about half an hour. 

Leeks. 

Trim off roots and tough ends of the leaves, cut in 
three-inch sections. Boil until tender in salted water, 
and serve on buttered toast. 

Lentils. 

Lentils should be soaked and cooked at least eight 
hours at a moderate temperature. When thus cooked 
they may be used for hash, croquettes, soup, and many 
other purposes. 

Lettuce. 

Lettuce may usually be found at any season in our 
larger markets. The close, firm, solid heads are 



154 Home Science Cook Book. 

preferable, as they have more of crisp, cup-shaped 
inner leaves. Discard the outer wilted leaves and any 
bruised portions. Rinse each leaf separately in cold 
water, and let them stand half an hour under running 
water to chill them. Then drain, wipe each leaf dry, 
without breaking them. Lay them together, the large 
leaves at the bottom, then the next in size, wrap them 
in a wet napkin, and lay them in the ice chest until 
serving time. 

Stewed Lettuce. 

Break up the tough outside leaves and cook them 
until tender in boiling water, like any greens. They 
may be cooked with the blanched celery leaves and 
tough stalks, or with spinach ; then drained, chopped, 
and seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, or used for 
a soup. 

Broiled Mushrooms. 

Use the cups only; wash, drain, brush upper part 
with melted butter. Broil about five minutes ; serve 
on buttered toast. The stems may be sliced or 
chopped fine to give flavor to a sauce or soup. 

Mushroom Rolls. 

Wipe, peel, and break the mushrooms into small 
pieces. Put them in a pan over the fire with butter 
sufficient to cover the pan. Cook quickly until the 
juice exudes, turning constantly; season with salt and 
pepper very sparingly, and when tender add cream 
enough to moisten well. When hot turn into roll 
crusts. Remove the soft inside from the rolls and dry 
the crusts slightly in the oven, replacing the top after 
filling with the mushroom mixture. 



Vegetables. 155 

Stewed Okra. 

Use only the small green pods, not more than two 
and one-half inches long. Wipe the pods and cut off 
the stems and the tips, if the latter be discolored. Put 
them into a granite saucepan with boiling salted 
water, and let them cook gently until tender, from 
twenty to thirty minutes. Drain off the water, add 
two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of vinegar, 
and a little pepper and salt. Let them merely simmer 
at the back of the range until the butter is absorbed, 
then turn out carefully so as not to break the pods, 
and serve hot. 

Onions. 

Much depends on the variety of onion. The Span- 
ish may be fried or stewed in a little butter. Small 
white onions are better than those with a greenish 
tinge. After peeling scald with water in which a 
little soda is dissolved. After leaving for half an hour, 
drain and cook in fresh water. Change the water 
often if the onions are strong. 

Scalloped Onions. 

Peel and boil one quart of small onions. Make one 
cup of white sauce and mix with the onions after they 
are well drained. Put in a deep plate or shallow pud- 
ding dish, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until 
brown. 

Parsnips. 

Wash and scrub. The skin may be removed more 
easily after cooking. Steam or boil. Serve sliced and 
buttered. 



156 Home Science Cook Book. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Mash cooked parsnips, removing tough fibers. To 
each cup add one beaten egg, and season with salt, 
pepper, and sugar if desired. If too thin add a little 
flour. Fry in deep fat or on a griddle, or brush over 
with melted butter, and bake. 

Green Peas. 

Shell, pick over, and rinse. Cook till tender, letting 
the water evaporate until only enough is left to moisten 
them when served. 

Stewed Dry Peas. 

Soak one pint of split peas, green or yellow, over 
night. Stew for several hours with one-fourth pound 
of lean salt pork. Use enough water to prevent burn- 
ing, but let it evaporate at the last until the peas are 
as thick as mashed potatoes. 

Timbales of Peas. 

Rub one can of peas through a strainer, and add 
enough milk to make one pint in all. Cook together two 
tablespoons each of butter and flour, and mix with the 
sifted peas and milk. Season with salt and pepper, 
and sugar and onion juice if desired. Add the slightly 
beaten whites of two eggs, pour into buttered molds, 
and steam or bake in a pan of water until firm in the 
center. Turn out of the molds before serving. 

Stuffed Peppers. 

Cut the stems from large green peppers, and re- 
move the center portion with all the seeds without 
breaking the skin. Parboil; then fill with a poultry 
stuffing or croquette mixture or any highly seasoned 



Vegetables. 157 

chopped meat. Bake until the skins are tender, bast- 
ing once or twice with butter and water. 

Peppers Broiled with Steak. 

Cut the peppers in quarters, lengthwise, remove 
seeds, parboil, dip in melted butter, and broil with the 
beef. Or chop fine, and add to a brown sauce. 

Radishes. 

When too old to serve raw, radishes may be pared 
and cooked like turnips. 

Winter Squash. 

This may be boiled or steamed. Watery squashes 
are rendered drier by baking instead of boiling. Cut 
them in convenient pieces, remove the seeds and fi- 
brous portions, but leave the rind on. Put them in a 
pan and bake in a hot oven. When done peel off any 
hard, dried portions and the skin. Mash and beat it 
till fine and smooth. For one cup of squash add one 
tablespoon of butter, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, and 
a few grains of pepper. Sometimes a little sugar is 
an improvement. Heat again and serve very hot. 

If more squash be cooked than will be needed at one 
meal do not season it all, as the portion left will be 
better if freshly seasoned when served. 

Squashes may be cut in uniform pieces suitable for 
one portion, baked, and served in the shell. 

Summer Squashes. 

These should be young, fresh, and with tender skin. 
Wash, and trim off stem and skin if hard, and cut in 
quarters. Steam or cook in as little water as possible. 
Put into a strainer cloth, mash thoroughly, squeeze, 



158 Home Science Cook Book. 

or twist and press in the cloth until squash is not quite 
dry. Season the squash with butter, salt, and pepper, 
and heat again before serving. 

Fried Summer Squash. 

Cut in slices, season, sprinkle with flour, and cook 
till brown and tender in enough salt pork fat to keep 
from burning. 

Potatoes. 

New potatoes should be baked or steamed in their 
skins. Old ones are improved by paring and soaking 
in cold water before boiling. The most important 
point in cooking is to drive off surplus moisture as 
soon as the potato is soft by cracking the skin of 
the baked potato, or draining off the water from 
boiled ones. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Choose smooth potatoes of medium size. If old, 
cut a slice from both ends. Wash and scrape. Large 
potatoes may be parboiled for ten minutes before 
baking. Put into a moderate oven to heat through 
gradually and let the heat increase. Thirty to forty- 
five minutes will be required. The skins should be 
puffy and not shriveled, when baked potatoes are 
served. Potatoes may be pared and baked in the pan 
with meat. This usually takes an hour. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

These are best baked, since some sweetness is lost 
when they are steamed or boiled. 

Browned Sweet Potatoes. 

Slice partially boiled sweet potatoes slightly thicker 



Vegetables. 159 

than Saratoga chips. Fill a baking dish with a sprink- 
ling of light brown sugar and bits of butter between 
the layers. Two tablespoons of sugar suffice for a pint 
of potatoes. Finish with a dusting of sugar, butter, 
and salt, and brown in the oven. 

Mashed Potato. 

Put one pint of hot boiled potatoes through a ricer, 
or use a wire masher. Season with half a teaspoon of 
salt, half a saltspoon of pepper, and two tablespoons 
of butter; add sufficient milk to hold the potato 
together, about one- fourth cup, and put over the fire 
again, and mash and beat until perfectly fine and 
smooth. 

Potato Roses. 

Put a star tin tube into the end of a three-cornered 
pastry bag, made of rubber sheeting or thick firm 
drilling. 

Fill the bag with mashed potato, twist the top tightly, 
and press the potato through the tube, letting it form 
little mounds, which, with a slight stretch of the 
imagination, may be called potato roses. Hold the 
tube over the spot where the potato is to be, and ar- 
range the roses so there will be a little space between 
each. 

Potato Cakes. 

Shape cold mashed potato in any small forms, brush 
over with milk or beaten egg, and brown in the oven. 

Potato Crust. 

Mix together one cup of cold mashed potato, one 
two tablespoons of melted butter and flour to 



160 Home Science Cook Book. 

make a soft dough, yet stiff enough to roll to cover a 
meat pie or turn-overs. Put cooked meat and gravy 
in a dish, cover with the crust, and bake until brown. 

Broiled Potatoes. 

Use large potatoes, either white or sweet, which 
have been boiled, but are not quite done. Pare and 
cut in thick slices lengthwise, making about four from 
each potato. Dip in melted butter or meat fat, and 
broil under gas or over coals until brown and cooked 
through. 

Hashed Potatoes. 

Wash and pare enough potatoes to make a pint. 
Chop quite fine and soak ten minutes in cold water. 
Drain, put two tablespoons of butter or bacon fat in 
a spider, add the potatoes, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; add one tablespoon of vinegar, cover closely, 
and let them cook on the back of the stove until 
tender. Bring forward and let them brown ; then fold 
over, turn out, and serve. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Wash and pare and cut lengthwise in slices, then 
in strips, one-fourth inch through or larger. Soak in 
cold water for several hours. Wipe dry and fry in 
deep fat a few at a time until brown. Drain on paper 
and sprinkle with salt. 

Potato Marbles. 

Cut large potatoes into balls, like marbles, with a 
cutter. Cook slowly in boiling salted water ten 
minutes, or until tender. Drain and shake carefully 



Vegetables. 161 

until dry. Pour over them one tablespoon of melted 
butter for each cupful, and roll about until all are 
buttered; sprinkle with salt, pepper, and minced 
parsley. 

Smothered Potatoes. 

In one ounce of butter or beef fat cook one-fourth 
cup of chopped onion and celery mixed. When be- 
ginning to brown add a pint of cold boiled potatoes 
cut in cubes or slices. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and add one-half cup of meat gravy or tomato sauce. 
Cover till well steamed through, uncover to let any 
surplus moisture evaporate, and serve hot. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Cut one pint of boiled potatoes into dice, or thin 
slices, and season with salt and pepper. Fry one scant 
tablespoon of minced onion in one ounce of butter 
until yellow. Add the potatoes, and stir with a fork 
until they have absorbed all the butter, being careful 
not to break them. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, 
and serve hot. One tablespoon of vinegar heated with 
the butter gives the potatoes a good flavor. 

Delmonico Potatoes or au Gratin. 

One pint of boiled potatoes cut in cubes, one cup of 
thin white sauce highly seasoned, one-fourth to one- 
half cup of chopped or grated cheese. Put in layers in 
a buttered pudding dish, cover with buttered crumbs. 
Bake till hot and brown. 

Potato Puff or Souffle. 

Press boiled potatoes through a ricer. For each 
cup add one tablespoon of butter, one-fourth cup of 



162 Home Science Cook Book. 

milk or cream, and one egg yolk and white beaten 
separately. Season with salt and pepper, and, if liked, 
with celery salt or chopped parsley. Mix thoroughly, 
fold in whites last. Bake in one dish or individual 
cases long enough to cook the egg, and serve at once. 

Salsify or Oyster Plant. 

Wash and boil like parsnips. The skin may be 
scraped off before cooking. In that case put directly 
into cold water containing some vinegar or lemon 
juice to keep the roots from turning dark. More flavor 
is retained if not scraped. Serve with white sauce or 
make into fritters. 

Turnips. 

White turnips may be pared, cut in cubes, cooked 
tender, and served with white sauce. 

Yellow turnips should be sliced, pared, all corky 
portions removed, cooked tender, mashed, and sea- 
soned with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Tomatoes. 

To serve raw, dip ripe tomatoes into boiling water 
to loosen the skin. Chill for some hours, then peel 
and slice just before serving. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Fill a pudding dish with alternate layers of seasoned 
buttered crumbs and sliced tomatoes. Have crumbs 
on top, and in all use about half as much crumb as 
tomato. 

Salt and pepper is usually enough for seasoning, but 
a few drops of onion juice may be added. 



Vegetables. 163 

Broiled Tomatoes. 

Solid tomatoes, all the better if not quite ripe, may 
be cut in thick slices, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
sprinkled with flour, and broiled or browned in hot fat. 
This is an excellent way to use those which are not 
fairly ripe when the frost comes. 

Serve with chops or steak. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Wipe and remove a thin slice from the stem end of 
four to six tomatoes. Take from the center the seeds 
and pulp, and mix with one cup of soft bread-crumbs, 
or boiled rice, one teaspoon of chopped parsley or one 
saltspoon of thyme, a little pepper, and sufficient 
melted butter to moisten. Fill the tomatoes with the 
mixture, place them in a shallow dish, and bake 
fifteen minutes. 

Deviled Tomatoes. 

Wipe and cut in half -inch slices four large, smooth 
tomatoes. Prepare the following 1 mixture: one table- 
spoon of vinegar, one tablespoon of mushroom ketchup, 
one teaspoon of sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoon of dry mustard, one-half teaspoon of 
onion juice, and one-eighth teaspoon of paprika, and 
when ready put two tablespoons of butter into the 
frying-pan or the chafing dish blazer; add the mix- 
ture, and when hot lay in the tomatoes, and let them 
cook until tender. Serve very hot. 



164 Home Science Cook Book. 

Desserts. 

Blanc Mange. 

Soak one-half cup of Irish moss in cold water fifteen 
minutes, pick over, wash, tie in coarse lace or netting, 
and cook with one quart of milk in a double boiler 
half an hour, or until the milk thickens slightly when 
a drop is cooled. Strain, add one-fourth teaspoon of 
salt, one teaspoon of vanilla, and turn into small 
molds wet in cold water. Serve with sugar and cream, 
and with fresh fruit. Or cook the moss in one pint of 
water, strain, and combine with one pint of thin cream 
scalded. 

Minute Pudding. 

Cook a heaping half pint of berries in one pint of 
water for ten minutes. Make smooth four tablespoons 
of flour in a little cold water, pour into the berries and 
boil, stirring carefully till the flour is well cooked. 
Serve with sweetened cream while warm, or mold in 
pudding cups, and turn out to eat cold. 

Cereal Fruit Pudding. 

Cook any cereal as for breakfast. Put a layer in a 
pudding dish, then a layer of mild apples or pears 
sprinkled with sugar, then another layer of each, with 
buttered cracker crumbs on top. Bake slowly till 
brown and serve with cream. 

Apricot Pudding. 

Wash one-half pound of apricots in cold and then in 
hot water. Put them and one-fourth pound of hominy 
in a scant quart of cold water and soak all day. Next 



Desserts. 165 

day cook it two hours in a double boiler, then add 
one cup of sugar and cook two hours longer, stirring 
every half hour. Turn into wetted molds and serve 
very cold with cream. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

One quart of milk, one-fourth cup of Indian meal 
scalded in the milk; add one-half cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of molasses, a little salt and ginger, and one 
tablespoon of butter. Bake slowly three hours. More 
milk may be added as it cooks away. 

Cream Rice Pudding. 

Measure milk enough to nearly fill a buttered pud- 
ding dish. For each cup of milk add two tablespoons 
of rice well washed and two tablespoons of sugar. 
Flavor with salt, and cocoa, or nutmeg, or cinnamon. 
Bake slowly, stirring occasionally, until the rice is 
soft and has absorbed nearly all the milk. 

Rice Fritters. 

Pick over and wash one-half cup of rice ; put it in 
the top of double boiler with one-half cup of boiling 
water and one level teaspoon of salt. Cook directly 
over the fire until water is absorbed, then add one cup 
of milk and cook over boiling water until very soft. 
Stir in one ounce of butter and one well-beaten egg. 
Remove from the fire and stir in one-half cup of canned 
cherries, stoned and cut small. Mix well and turn into 
a round shallow tin to cool. When cold divide into 
six or eight sections, cover with fine bread-crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, and brown on each side in hot butter. 

Andermatt Rice Pudding. 

Cook half a cup of washed rice in one cup. of boiling 



i66 Home Science Cook Book. 

water until the water is absorbed ; then turn it into 
the double boiler with three cups of boiling milk. 
Cook it until tender. Stir in one heaped cup of a 
mixture of preserved fruits. When cool stir in one 
pint of thick cream whipped stiff, and turn it into a 
melon mold. When firm turn out and serve. 

Baked or Steamed Custards. 

For each pint of hot milk beat two or three eggs, 
mix with one-fourth cup of sugar, and add to the milk 
with a little salt and flavoring. Strain into cups, or 
one mold, and steam or bake in a pan of water until 
puffy on top and firm in the center. 

Like all dishes in which egg is a principal ingredient 
the heat must be very moderate. 

Use the same proportions for a custard pie. 

Coffee Custard. 

Substitute one cup of strong coffee and one cup of 
thin cream for the pint of milk and proceed as above. 

Maple Custard. 

Sweeten the custard with maple sugar or sirup. 

Fruit Custard. 

Substitute from one-half cup to one cup of sweet- 
ened fruit pulp for part of the milk of the custard 
recipe, or put a layer of fruit in the bottom of the dish 
and pour the custard over before cooking. Part of 
the egg white may be reserved and a meringue put on 
top after the custard is baked. 

Caramel Custard. 

Melt a cup of sugar in a smooth frying-pan, stirring 
until it becomes a rich golden brown, then add a half 



Desserts. 167 

cup of water, and stir until dissolved. Use about one- 
fourth of this to sweeten and flavor a custard made 
with one pint of hot milk and two or three eggs. Add 
a speck of salt and a half teaspoon of vanilla, strain 
into a mold, and bake or steam until firm. Serve with 
the remainder of the sirup as a sauce, adding water if 
it is too thick. 

Silver and Gold Custards. 

Beat the whites of four eggs slightly with one- 
fourth cup of sugar, add a speck of salt and a few 
drops of almond or vanilla extract, and one pint of 
scalded milk. Strain into molds and steam or bake 
in a moderate oven till firm. 

Scald another pint of milk and adff to the beaten 
yolks of four eggs, cook till it begins to thicken, and 
add one-fourth cup of sugar and strain ; flavor when 
cold. 

Turn the white custards from the molds and serve 
with the yellow around them. 

Soft or Boiled Custards. 

Scald one pint of milk, beat two eggs or the yolks of 
three eggs, mix part of the milk with the egg, and then 
turn back with the remainder of the milk. Cook in a 
double boiler, stirring constantly until it thickens and 
the foam disappears from the top. Add one-fourth 
cup of sugar, strain, cover, and cool. Then flavor 
with one-half teaspoon of vanilla or one-fourth tea- 
spoon of lemon or a few drops of almond extract. 

Floating Island. 

Make a soft custard with the yolks of eggs. When 
cold pour into a shallow glass dish. Beat the whites 



i68 Home Science Cook Book. 

stiff, sweeten, and heap in the center of the custard. 
This meringue may be flavored and colored by beating 
into it a little fruit juice. 

Panada. 

Bread or crackers cooked or soaked in milk or water 
is a foundation common to many ''made dishes." 
This is a sort of porridge, and milk or water thickened 
with tapioca, arrowroot, corn-starch, or cereals is often 
used in the same way. 

It will be noticed that many of the following recipes 
may be divided into two parts, a porridge or panada 
and a custard. In all such cases the starch should 
have more cooking than the custard. Bread and 
cracker crumbs are already cooked, but rice, tapioca, 
and corn- starch should be cooked in the milk or water 
before the eggs are added. 

Fruit Custard. 

Make a thick custard by cooking two tablespoons of 
corn- starch with one pint of milk in a double boiler 
for twenty minutes, then adding the beaten yolks of 
two or three eggs, and last one-fourth cup of sugar. 
Have ready three oranges cut up and sweetened or a 
cup of any other prepared fruit. Put the fruit in a 
dish, and pour the custard over. 

A meringue may be made from the egg whites and 
placed on top. 

Cocoanut Sponge. 

Thicken one pint of milk with one-fourth cup of corn- 
starch; add one-fourth cup of sugar and a little salt. 
Cook ten minutes; when slightly cool beat in the 
stiff whites of three eggs and one cup of fresh grated 



Desserts. 169 

cocoanut and turn into a mold. Serve cold with soft 
custard made with the yolks of the eggs, one-fourth 
cup of sugar, and one pint of milk. 

Chopped almonds may be used instead of cocoanut. 

Apple Pudding. 

Fill a buttered pudding-dish with alternate layers of 
bread-crumbs and apple sauce which has been sweet- 
ened and slightly spiced. A tablespoon of butter 
melted and mixed with the top layer of crumbs will 
give a crisp crust. Cover with a plate and bake 
slowly for half an hour ; remove the cover for the last 
five minutes and brown on top. Raw apples sliced or 
chopped may be used, but in that case the pudding 
must be baked for an hour, or until the apples are 
tender. Serve hot with cream. 

Spiced Pudding. 

Soak one packed cup of the brown crusts of bread in 
one pint of scalded milk until soft. Then add one-half 
cup of molasses, scant measure, a saltspoon of salt, 
and one- fourth of a level teaspoon of mixed spice 
(cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg), and from 
one-half to one cup of raisins. Stir occasionally at 
first and bake in a very moderate oven for nearly 
one hour. Serve with whipped cream or hard sauce. 

Orange Pudding. 

To one pint of scalded milk add one cup of white 
crumbs, not crusts, one-fourth cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoon of butter, the yolks of three eggs, one-fourth 
cup of candied orange peel cut in bits. Mix all in- 
gredients well together, and bake slowly about one- 
half hour, or until firm in the center. Put a cup of 



170 Home Science Cook Book. 

cut orange over the top, on that spread a meringue 
made of the egg whites and one-fourth cup of pow- 
dered sugar. Brown in the oven. 

Lemon may be used instead of orange. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Soak one-half cup dry or one cup of stale bread- 
crumbs in one pint of milk. To this add one level 
tablespoon of cocoa stirred in a quarter of a cup of 
sugar, and one beaten egg. Bake in a shallow pud- 
ding dish until firm throughout. Serve either hot or 
cold, with whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored 
with vanilla. 

Berry Charlotte. 

Pick over and stew one quart of berries, or small 
fruits, blueberries, currants, raspberries or black- 
berries, in one cup of water. Mash well and squeeze 
through coarse cheese-cloth. Add sugar to taste, and 
boil again until it almost jellies on the edge. Have a 
quart or more of soft white bread cut in small, thin 
pieces. Put a layer of bread in a bowl or in small 
cups, pour on enough hot sirup to wet the bread all 
through, and continue the layers of bread and sirup 
until all is used. Put in ice chest and serve cold. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Cut bread into small wedged-shaped pieces one- 
fourth inch thick and butter well on one side. Make 
a custard in a small pudding dish, fit the bread over 
the custard so as to cover it, butter side up ; bake till 
firm. A layer of fresh fruit or jam may be put in 
the bottom of the pudding dish. The buttered bread 
browns and makes a nice looking pudding. 



Desserts. 171 

Thanksgiving Pudding. 

The raisins, few or many, must be seeded and 
stewed gently for an hour before the pudding- is 
made. Let them cook uncovered at the last, so the 
water may evaporate, that none of the richness of the 
raisins need be lost by draining. Allow one egg and 
one medium sized cracker for each cup of milk re- 
quired to fill the pudding dish. Soak the crumbled 
crackers in the milk for several hours ; add the beaten 
eggs and the cooked raisins, and a speck of nutmeg 
and salt. Bake in a very moderate oven until nothing 
adheres to an inserted knife blade. The pudding is 
unsweetened, and should be served with a hard sauce 
or a rich lemon sauce. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Butter a mold and decorate it with candied fruit ; 
put in a layer of stale sponge cake, then a few pieces 
of fruit, and repeat till the mold is nearly full. Pour 
one pint of boiling milk into the yolks of three eggs 
beaten with one-fourth cup of sugar and one-half a salt- 
spoon of salt. Pour gently into the mold and set it in 
a pan of water, and bake or steam it one hour. Serve 
hot with or without sauce. 

Crumbled macaroons or cocoanut cakes may be 
used in place of the fruit. A cake with a chocolate 
frosting will make another variety. 

Tapioca. 

This starchy food comes to us in several forms, and 
any one may be used in the following recipes. The 
flake tapioca should be soaked several hours, the pearl 
may be soaked or not, while the fine granules are used 



172 Home Science Cook Book. 

without soaking. Sago may be substituted for tapioca 
in any recipe. 

Fruit Tapioca. 

Cook one-half cup of tapioca in one pint of boiling 
water until transparent. Then add a little salt and 
sugar and spice if desired. 

Pour around cored and pared apples placed in a 
buttered pudding dish. The centers of the apples 
may be filled with sugar, raisins, nuts, or jelly. Bake 
until the apples are tender, and serve warm with 
cream and sugar. 

Or pour the cooked tapioca over strawberries or 
sliced peaches, bananas, oranges, etc. , and serve cold. 

Or stir into the tapioca one cup of fruit juice, pulp, 
jelly, or fresh berries, cook a little longer, then chill 
in molds. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Scald one pint of milk and shake gently into it one- 
fourth cup of fine tapioca, stirring all the time. When 
it begins to thicken add one teaspoon of butter, one 
beaten egg, and one- fourth cup of sugar. Flavor with 
nutmeg. Pour into a buttered pudding dish, and bake 
in a very moderate oven for about thirty minutes, or 
until firm like a custard. Serve hot or cold. 

The egg may be omitted. Raisins, dates, or other 
fruits may be added. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Cook one- fourth cup of tapioca until transparent in 
one pint of milk. Then mix in the beaten yolks of 
two eggs and one-fourth cup of sugar, cook three min- 
utes more. Beat in the stiff whites of the eggs when 



Desserts. 173 

taken from the fire, or make a meringue for the top. 
If the pudding is too thick it may be diluted with a 
little scalded milk or fruit juice. Flavor with a speck 
of salt and one-half teaspoon of vanilla. 

Tapioca Sponge. 

Heat one pint of fruit juice and water in a double 
boiler, and stir in one-fourth cup of tapioca. Cook fif- 
teen minutes, or till clear ; add one-half cup of sugar 
and a speck of salt. Fold in the stiff whites of two 
eggs ; let the mixture cook a moment or two longer, 
then turn into molds and set away to cool. Serve with 
a soft custard made with the yolks of the eggs, a cup 
of milk, sweetened, and flavored with almond. 

Fruit Souffle. 

Put one-half cup of boiling water in a saucepan on 
the stove, melt in it two tablespoons of butter, and 
stir in one-half cup of flour, and cook thoroughly. 
Then add gradually one-half cup of milk, two table- 
spoons of sugar, and, when cool, the yolks of two 
eggs. Beat well, then fold in the stiff whites of the 
eggs. Have a layer of jam in a pudding dish, and 
pour the mixture over it. Set the dish in a pan of 
water and bake for a half hour or more in a moderate 
oven. 

Prune Puff. 

Whip the whites of three or four eggs to a stiff froth, 
add slowly one-fourth cup of powdered sugar, beating 
all the time. Then add one cup of cooked prunes 
chopped or sifted, and beat until very light. Put into 
a small pudding dish and bake about ten minutes; 
then cool. Serve with a soft custard made with the 



174 Home Science Cook Book. 

yolks of the eggs previously cooked. Other fruits 
may be used instead of the prunes. 

These puffs may be served hot and without sauce or 
with whipped cream. 

Fruit Foam. 

With each egg white beaten stiff blend one-half cup 
of strained peach, or other fruit pulp, and two or more 
tablespoons of sugar. Serve in sherbet glasses with cake. 

Whipped cream may be placed on top or beaten in 
with the fruit and egg. Jelly or jam may be used 
instead of raw fruit. 

Plum Pudding. 

In one cup of flour sift one -half teaspoon each of 
salt and of soda, one or two level teaspoons of mixed 
spice ; add two cups of stale (not dried) bread-crumbs, 
one cup of finely chopped beef suet. Beat two eggs 
light, and add with one cup of molasses to the other 
ingredients, then a pound of prepared fruit, which 
may be a mixture of raisins, currants, citron, and 
candied lemon or orange peel. Figs and nuts may 
be added. Put in small molds and steam three hours 
at least. Serve with hard sauce. 

Steamed Pudding. 

Sift together one pint of flour, one-half teaspoon of 
soda, one-half teaspoon of salt, and one-fourth tea- 
spoon of mixed spice. Add one ounce of shortening 
melted, one-half cup each of molasses and sour milk. 
Mix thoroughly, and add one-half to one cup of cur- 
rants and raisins, or chopped figs or nuts. Steam in 
one mold or six cups from one to two hours. 

Serve with a rich sauce. 



Desserts. 175 

Entire wheat flour may be used instead of white 
flour for such a pudding. 

Steamed Apple Pudding. 

Slice tart apples into a deep granite basin. Cover 
with very light bread dough, into which has been 
worked a large spoonful of butter. Set in a warm 
place for an hour. Then lift the edge of the dough, 
pour in from one-half to one pint of boiling water (ac- 
cording to size of pudding) ; drop the dough close 
again. Cut an opening in the middle. Put over this 
dish another basin inverted, of exactly the same size. 
Set on the back of a hot range and cook steadily for 
an hour, without lifting the cover. Serve on a hot 
platter, turning over the basin, so that the apples are 
on top. Use thick cream and maple sirup as sauce. 

A quick biscuit dough may be used instead of the 
yeast dough. 

Dutch Apple Tea Cake or Pudding. 

Sift together one pint of flour, one-half teaspoon of 
salt, and three level teaspoons of baking powder. Rub 
in quickly and lightly one-fourth cup of butter, add 
one scant cup of milk and one well-beaten egg. Make 
it into a dough soft enough to spread easily on a bak- 
ing pan. It should be about one- half inch thick. 

Cut tart apples in eighths, remove skin and core, 
and press the apples into the dough in parallel rows. 
Serve with butter or cream or lemon sauce. 

Use the same recipe for steamed berry puddings. 

Cottage Pudding. 

This has the same foundation as the Dutch apple 
cake with the addition of one-half cup of sugar. It is 



176 Home Science Cook Book. 

usually baked. One cup of dates cut fine may be 
added, and the pudding served with lemon or vanilla 
sauce. Or drain any canned fruit, stir one cup into 
the pudding, and use the sirup heated and thickened 
for a sauce. 

Fruit Puffs. 

Cut open pop-overs when baked and put in one-half 
teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of powdered sugar, 
and as many strawberries, or other fruits, as the puff 
will contain. Sliced peaches are especially fine served 
in this way. Or after the pop-over mixture is in the 
cups, put in each a section of peach or banana and 
bake. The puff mixture will enclose the fruit. 

Plain Pastry. 

Into one pint of pastry flour sift one-half teaspoon of 
salt ; for meat pies add one teaspoon of baking powder, 
and rub in one-fourth cup or two ounces of shorten- 
ing (lard or butter, etc.), then mix with about one- 
half cup of ice water into a stiff dough. Roll out and 
spread with one ounce of butter, fold and do the same 
again. In all one-half cup of shortening will be used. 
For upper crusts more may be rolled in if desired. 
Keep as cool as possible throughout. 

Puff Pastry. 

Use equal weights of flour and butter, or by meas- 
ure, one pint of flour and one cup of butter. Scald the 
bowl and dip the hands in hot water to keep the 
butter from sticking. Wash the butter in cold water, 
divide into four parts, pat until thin, wrap it in a 
napkin and place in a pan between two pans of ice. 
Mix one-half teaspoon of salt with the flour, rub in one 



Desserts. 177 

part of the butter, add about one-half cup of ice water 
slowly, mix with a knife, and cut till it can be taken 
up clean from the bowl. Toss out on a well-floured 
board, pat into a flat cake, then roll out until half an inch 
thick. Roll one part of the butter thin and lay it on the 
middle of the paste. Fold the sides toward the middle, 
then the ends over, and double again. Pat and roll out 
again. Repeat this process with the remaining pieces 
of butter. When the butter is all rolled in, the paste 
should be rolled and folded till no streaks of butter 
can be seen. Chill whenever the butter softens. After 
the last rolling, place it on the ice to harden, that it 
may then be cut and shaped more easily. 

Patties and Tarts. 

Roll puff paste one-eighth of an inch thick, and 
stamp out circular pieces with a cutter, two and one- 
half inches in diameter. With a smaller cutter, stamp 
out the centers from half of these pieces, leaving rings 
half an inch wide. Rub a little white of egg on the 
top of the large rounds near the edge, put on the 
rings, and press them lightly to make them adhere. 
Put round pieces of stale bread, cut half an inch thick, 
in the center, to keep the paste from rising. 

Apple Pie. 

Line a tin or granite plate with a thin crust. Cut 
sour apples in quarters, remove the cores and skins, 
and cut each quarter in two pieces lengthwise. Fill 
the plate, putting the pieces of apple round the edge 
in regular order, and piling slightly in the middle. 
When the apples are not juicy, add a little water. 
Cover with crust without wetting the edges, and bake 



178 Home Science Cook Book. 

about half an hour. When nearly done, boil one- 
half cup of sugar and two tablespoons of water five 
minutes. Add the grated rind of one-quarter of a 
lemon, or one tablespoon of lemon juice. When the 
pie is done, remove to an earthen plate, pour the 
sirup through a cut in the top, or raise the upper crust 
and pour it over the fruit, or simply sprinkle with 
sugar and bits of butter. Replace the crust; the steam 
will dissolve the sugar, and the pie will be sweeter 
and of better flavor than if sweetened before baking. 
Peach pie, apricot pie, and plum pie may be pre- 
pared in the same way. 

Berry Pie. 

Lay the crust on a granite pie plate, floured but not 
greased, fill heaping with blueberries, dredge with 
flour, sprinkle on a few grains of salt and half a cup 
of sugar, and dot with a teaspoon of butter. Draw the 
extra crust up over the berries round the edge. Wet 
the top of it, and cover with the other crust, rolled to 
fit the plate. Press it close on the edge. Prick or 
gash the top and bake about half an hour. Bake in 
deep dish with only top crust if preferred. 

Marlborough Pie. 

Mix together two cups of grated apples, one and 
one-half cups of sugar, three eggs well beaten, two 
tablespoons of melted butter, the grated rind and 
juice of one lemon, and one cup of thin cream. This 
is enough for two pies, which should be baked in an 
under crust, with strips of pastry across the top. Or 
it may be used as a pudding, reserving the whites of 
the eggs to make a meringue for the top. 



Desserts. 179 

Mince Pie. 

One cup of chopped meat (cold steak or roast beef 
which has been simmered till tender), two cups of 
chopped apple, one teaspoon each of salt, allspice, and 
cinnamon, one cup of brown sugar, half a cup of small 
whole raisins, half a cup of currants. Moisten with 
one cup of cider, or one cup of sweet pickle vinegar, 
or half a cup of water, juice of one lemon, and two or 
three spoonfuls of any jelly. Bake in two crusts. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Select a fine grained, solid pumpkin, cut up, and 
steam or stew with very little water. Sift, add spice 
and sugar, spread on plates, ancl heat in a moderate 
oven to evaporate as much moisture as possible. For 
each pie use one cup of the prepared pumpkin, one 
egg, and two cups or more of rich milk. Add sugar 
and spice as needed cinnamon, ginger, and nut- 
meg seem to belong to pumpkin pie. Bake in a deep 
plate, with one crust, slowly until the pie puffs in the 
center and becomes brown. 

Squash Pie. 

Use the dry, mealy squashes; the watery kind are 
no better for pies than for the dinner as a vegetable. 
Stew or bake the squash till tender. Sift it, and 
allow one cup and one-half for an ordinary sized pie. 
Mix with the squash one cup of boiling milk, one-half 
cup of sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, and one egg beaten slightly. Line 
a granite pie plate with paste, allowing enough for a 
fluted rim, fill with the squash mixture, and bake in a 



180 Home Science Cook Book. 

hot oven until the crust is brown and the squash puffs 
up in the center. 

Lemon Pie. 

Pour one cup of hot water over one-half cup of fine 
stale bread-crumbs; add one saltspoon of salt, one-half 
cup of sugar, juice and grated rind of one lemon, two 
egg yolks well beaten ; pour this mixture into pie-tin 
lined with paste, and bake till crust is done ; cool, and 
cover with meringue made from the two egg whites 
and one-fourth cup of powdered sugar. Brown in a 
slow oven. 

Mince Pie for Summer. 

Mix one-fourth cup each of molasses, sugar, vine- 
gar and water, and scald with one-half cup of chopped 
raisins. Then stir in one ounce of butter, one-fourth 
cup of coarse cracker crumbs, and flavor with one- 
half teaspoon of mixed spice. One beaten egg may 
or may not be added. Bake between two crusts. 

Lemon Turnover Filling. 

Cook together two tablespoons each of butter and 
corn-starch, add one cup of liquid (water, with the 
juice of one lemon), when thick and smooth stir in one 
beaten egg and cook three minutes longer. Then add 
one cup of sugar, a little of the grated lemon rind, 
and from one-half to one cup of currants or citron and 
raisins cut fine. If too thin when cold, add fine 
cracker crumbs, but some moisture will be absorbed by 
the dry fruit. Make a few days before it is to be used. 

Brambles. 

One cup of chopped raisins, one cup of sugar, one 
egg, grated rind and juice of a lemon. Make a pie 



Desserts. 181 

crust and cut in rounds; fill one-half and turn the 
other over and pinch down. Bake in rather a slow 
oven. 

The addition of a few chopped walnuts gives variety. 

Rhubarb Pie with one Crust. 

Wash the rhubarb and cut off the root and leaf end, 
but do not peel it, unless very tough, for the pink 
skin gives a fine color and flavor. If it is a very sour 
variety, pour boiling water over it and let it stand five 
minutes, then drain it. Put the rhubarb, cut into 
inch pieces, into a deep dish, earthen or granite, and 
sprinkle over it one level cup of sugar to each heaped 
pint of rhubarb. If you like the sirup thick, mix one 
level tablespoon of corn-starch with the sugar. Add 
also one saltspoon of salt. Cover with a rich pastry 
crust and bake about half an hour. 

Another kind of rhubarb pie is made by chopping 
the rhubarb fine, and with each cup of that mix one 
beaten egg, one-half cup of sugar, and a sprinkle of 
flour. 

Gelatin Puddings. 

The usual family package of a standard gelatin is 
sufficient for two quarts of jelly. The powdered and 
granulated gelatins may be measured by the table- 
spoon. One tablespoon is equivalent to one-fourth of 
the ordinary box. 

Soak gelatin in cold water, the time varying accord- 
ing to the size of the particles. This cold water must 
be counted in the whole amount to be used. Never 
use more gelatin than the directions on the package 
call for, unless show rather than flavor is the object. 
A smaller proportion is required to thicken creams, 



182 Home Science Cook Book. 

custards, or fruit pulps than for a coffee or fruit 
jelly. 

After soaking, the gelatin should be dissolved with 
boiling liquid. Use no more than is required, add the 
remainder of the liquid cold, and cool as rapidly as 
possible. Gelatin is not improved by cooking. The 
quantity of sugar must be varied according to the 
acidity of the fruit juices used. 

Earthen molds are preferable to tin, especially for 
acid jellies, but the cooling process is slower. Agate- 
ware combines the advantages of both earthen and tin. 

Six hours or longer in a cool place is needed to make 
a large mold firm. By use of cracked ice with salt the 
process may be hastened, and small shapes cool quicker 
than large ones. 

Jelly that is shaken or even slightly jarred after it 
begins to harden is liable to crack when it is turned 
from the molds. With the foregoing points in mind 
an almost infinite variety of acceptable summer des- 
serts can be made from fruit juices, whipped cream, 
and soft custard stiffened with gelatin. 

There are three distinct types : Jellies which may or 
may not have fruits molded in them ; creams known 
as Bavarian or Italian, etc. , which may be part cream, 
part custard, and part fruit juice or pulp; sponges, 
either a jelly or cream, into which, as it begins to 
harden, stiff egg whites or whipped cream is folded, 
giving a spongy effect. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Soak one-fourth box of gelatin in cold water. Pour 
over it, stirring meanwhile, enough boiling water to 
actually dissolve it, and no more ; add about one-half 



Desserts. 183 

cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of lemon juice, a speck 
of salt, and enough ice-water to make a pint in all. 
Strain and cool. 

Orange Jelly 

Is made like lemon jelly, but a larger proportion of 
juice is necessary, as orange is less potent than lemon. 

Macedoine of Fruit. 

Use either lemon or orange jelly and strain it into a 
pitcher. Set a mold in a pan of crushed ice and salt, 
pour in a half inch layer of jelly, and let it harden. 
Then arrange over it a garnish of different fruits, nuts, 
etc., and pour over a little more jelly without disturb- 
ing the pattern, and let that harden. Proceed thus 
until the dish is full. 

Chartreuse of Fruit. 

Line a mold with jelly by first letting a layer harden 
in the bottom, then gently place a smaller mold on 
that, and fill the space between the sides with liquid 
jelly. When hard fill the center mold with warm (not 
hot) water, and in a minute the mold can be pulled 
out without disturbing the jelly. Color the remainder 
of the jelly pink, or beat it until full of bubbles, and 
mix with any fruit cut into bits. Fill the lined mold 
with this mixture, and chill. 

Snow Pudding. 

This consists of a lemon or orange jelly with which 
the whites of eggs are beaten, while the yolks are 
made into a soft custard to serve as sauce. 

Coffee Cream. 

With an egg whip beat one cup of heavy cream until 



184 Home Science Cook Book. 

it begins to thicken, then gradually beat in a spoonful 
at a time of slightly thickened coffee jelly, using one 
pint in all. The coffee jelly may be made like a lemon 
jelly from fresh or left-over coffee. Less sugar is 
needed than with the lemon juice. 

Peach Bavarian Cream. 

Select six or eight of the best half peaches from a 
can and put in cups. Rub the remainder of the peach 
and juice through a strainer and make into a jelly, 
adding a little lemon juice and more sugar. Beat one 
cup of heavy cream stiff and combine with a pint of 
the jelly, and fill the cups where the peaches are. 

When turned out garnish with whipped cream and 
cubes of any peach jelly remaining, which may be 
colored pink if desired. 

Use canned cherries in the same way. 

Quaking Pudding. 

Make a soft custard with one pint of milk, the yolks 
of two or three eggs, and one-fourth cup of sugar, or 
one cup of custard and one cup of scalded cream may 
be combined. When taken from the fire dissolve in it 
one-fourth box of gelatin softened in cold water. 
Strain, flavor, and cool. This may be served with 
whipped cream, or fruit or chocolate sauce. 

Crumbs of stale cake may be arranged in a mold 
and such a cream poured over them, and the whole 
left to chill. 

Apricot Sponge. 

Make a pint of jelly with gelatin, from dried apricots, 
stewed and strained. When cool beat in whites of two 
eggs, or one cup of thick cream, whipped, or use 



OF TH 

UNfVERSfTY I 



Desserts. 185 

the white of one egg and one-half cup of cream. Use 
any other fruit pulp in the same way. 

Fruit Sponges. 

Make a soft custard with one pint of milk and the 
yolks of three eggs. Take from the fire and add one- 
half box of gelatin soaked in one-half cup of cold 
water, one-half cup of sugar, and a speck of salt. 
Strain and cool, stirring occasionally. When it begins 
to thicken beat thoroughly, and add one-half pint of 
sifted fruit pulp and the stiffly beaten whites of the 
eggs. 

Or dissolve the gelatin in the hot fruit pulp, and 
when cold fold in one pint of cream, whipped. Pack 
in molds and serve cold. Whipped cream may be 
added as a garnish. 

Either a cream or fruit jelly, or both together, may 
be blended with either whipped cream and stiff egg 
whites, or both. The important point is not to 
attempt the blending until the jelly or cream is half 
thickened. Then the sponge will be of uniform 
texture throughout, otherwise the jelly will separate 
from the froth and settle, while the froth stays on top, 
and, therefore, is at the bottom when the dessert is 
turned out of the mold. 

Whipped Cream. 

Heavy cream, costing forty to sixty cents a quart, 
may be whipped with an egg beater and forced through 
fancy tubes for a garnish, or used for filling cream 
puffs, etc. It may be slightly diluted for this purpose 
with fruit juice, strong coffee, or milk, and then is 
less likely to turn to butter in whipping. 



i86 Home Science Cook Book. 

Thin cream, or the heavy cream combined with an 
equal quantity of milk, is whipped with a special 
churn. Put cream and churn in a deep bowl, move 
the dasher down quickly and up slowly. Skim off the 
froth as it rises, and drain on a fine strainer. 

All cream to whip should be chilled. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Whip one quart of thin cream and drain on a fine 
strainer. Soften one-fourth box of gelatin, and dis- 
solve by heating with a little of the cream which drips 
from the whip ; add one-half cup of powdered sugar, 
a speck of salt, and one teaspoon of vanilla. Strain 
into an agate pan set in ice water; as the jelly thickens, 
with a wire whisk fold in the whipped cream. When 
all is mixed put in cups or a large mold lined with 
lady-fingers or thin slices of sponge cake. 

Frozen Desserts. 

So many names are given to different frozen 
desserts that a few words of explanation are needed. 

Ice-Cream. 

This consists mainly or entirely of cream, and takes 
a specific name from the substance used for flavoring. 

Frozen Pudding. 

Ice-cream or custard, highly flavored, and containing 
preserved fruits and nuts becomes frozen pudding. It 
is often served with a sauce. 

Mousse. 

The name is due to the mossy, feathery ice de- 
veloped in whipped cream, which is put into a mold, 
and packed for several hours in ice and salt. 



Desserts. 187 

Water Ices. 

These are frozen without rapid motion, which would 
interfere with the clearness of the ice ; fruit juices are 
the principal ingredient. 

Sherbets. 

Water ices frozen more rapidly are called sherbets, 
and white of egg or gelatin is often added to give a 
creamy consistency. 

Frappe. 
These ices are served when half frozen or like a mush. 

In the city it is more convenient and often cheaper 
to buy ices, but in the country an ice-cream freezer is 
a valuable aid, though many ices may be prepared 
without a regular freezer. Ices are more easily pre- 
pared than pies, and during the summer are far more 
acceptable. 

A few general laws apply to all frozen desserts. 
The proportion of sugar and flavoring must be about 
double that needed for an ordinary pudding. For 
water ices it is considered better to boil the sugar and 
water together to form a sirup. This may be made in 
large quantities and kept on hand. 

Fruits mashed or cut up become lumps of ice in a 
cream, therefore, it is better to use only juice and 
pulp pressed through a linen strainer and discard 
skins and seeds. 

The heavy cream which is sold at forty cents a quart 
must be reduced by milk or fruit juices, or the action 
of the freezer is likely to produce btitter. 

Scalded cream gives a solid smoothness. For a 



i88 Home Science Cook Book. 

different effect whipped cream may be added after an 
ice is partially frozen. 

Milk sherbets latterly have been great favorites; 
when the milk is ice-cold, acid fruit juice may be put 
with it without danger of curdling. 

Condensed milk may be used for ice-cream, reduc- 
ing it with water as directed on the can. 

Lemon juice may be combined with any fruit, and 
serves to bring out the flavor of the other. A small 
quantity of salt should be added to all ice-creams and 
sherbets. 

Where cream is not attainable, a soft custard is 
often used as the foundation for an ice-cream. Milk 
may be slightly thickened with flour, arrowroot, or 
corn-starch, and if the starch is thoroughly cooked, this 
is more satisfactory than if egg alone is used for thick- 
ening the milk. 

A small quantity of gelatin is generally put in sher- 
bets, and may be used in ice-cream to aid in molding it. 

Junket tablets are sometimes used to thicken the 
milk slightly before freezing. From one-half to one 
tablet is dissolved in each quart of milk. 

One part of coarse salt and three parts of ice, 
pounded nearly as fine as the salt, are combined to do 
the freezing ordinarily. 

For frappe the quantity of salt is increased. 

The cream or custard should be chilled before it is 
put in the freezer can. Since the cream will expand 
while being frozen, the cans must not be filled full. 

Rapid motion of the crank is a waste of energy ex- 
cept for ices in which a light consistency is desired. 
When it becomes difficult to turn the handle the work 
is done. 



Desserts. 189 

The flavor of most ices is improved if they are 
packed for several hours after being frozen. 

After the dasher is removed the frozen mass may be 
packed down smoothly in the can or put in other 
molds. These are to be packed full, a thin paper 
spread over the top, the cover put on, and all cracks 
around the cover filled with soft butter. In the same 
way a mousse is put into the molds, which are then 
packed in ice and salt for hours. 

To remove the ice dip the mold in slightly warm 
water, or wrap it for a moment in a towel wrung out 
of hot water. Unless this is done carefully the out- 
lines of elaborate molds will be melted. 

Ices for an invalid, or beef tea, clam juice, etc., 
may be frozen in a glass jar or small tin can. 

Orange baskets are the prettiest dishes in which to 
serve an orange ice. Banana skins may be filled with 
banana ice-cream or with whipped cream, and packed 
in a tin box in ice and salt until frozen, and then 
served like fresh fruit. 

Ice-Cream. 

Scald one pint of milk, reserving enough to make a 
smooth paste with one-fourth cup of flour, mix with 
the hot milk, and cook in double boiler half an hour ; 
add beaten yolks of three eggs, cook five minutes 
longer, stirring constantly, then add one cup of sugar, 
one saltspoon of salt, and strain. When cool mix with 
one pint of thin cream. Flavor as desired and freeze. 

Philadelphia Ice-Cream. 

One quart of thin cream, one scant cup of sugar, 
speck of salt, and flavoring. 

For a smooth, rich ice-cream first scald the cream, 



190 Home Science Cook Book. 

then add the sugar, and cool and flavor just before 
freezing. 

Variations. 

To either of these foundation recipes for ice-cream, 
or to one quart of soft custard, may be added from one 
cup to one pint of any fruit juice or pulp, with more 
sugar according to the acidity of the fruit. 

Or one cup of fine crumbs of brown bread, cocoa- 
nut cakes, or macaroons, or nuts, or candied fruits 
chopped fine. 

Mousse or Parfait. 

Over two beaten egg yolks pour slowly one cup of 
hot maple sirup, or any sweet, thick fruit sirup. Cook 
in double boiler till it thickens like custard. Cool and 
combine with one pint of thick cream beaten stiff, or 
the whip from thinner cream. Fill molds and pack in 
ice and salt for three or four hours. 

Coffee Mousse. 

Make the sirup with one -half cup of sugar and one 
cup of strong coffee, and proceed as above. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

Shell, blanch, and boil one pint of chestnuts. Put 
through a sieve and mix with one quart of custard or 
cream. When partly frozen mix in one-fourth cup 
of candied fruits cut fine. 

Frozen Rice Pudding. 

Cook one-half cup of rice with one quart of milk in 
a double boiler for one hour or more, add one cup of 
sugar, a speck of salt, cool, flavor, and freeze. When 
half frozen add one pint of thick cream whipped with 



Desserts. 191 

one-fourth cup of sugar. The yolks of three eggs may 
be added to the hot rice as it is taken from the stove 
if the cream is not available. Serve with preserved 
ginger or other fruit. 

Macedoine Ice. 

Combine one pint of water with one pint of fruit 
juice and pulp, two oranges, two bananas, one 
lemon, and grated pineapple. Make it very sweet, 
add a little salt, and freeze till mushy, and remove the 
dasher. Stir in the froth from a pint of thin cream, 
giving a marbled appearance, and pack for an hour. 

Other combinations of fruit may be used. 

Fresh Fruit Ice. 

Fill punch glasses half full with vanilla ice-cream. 
Crush strawberries and sweeten to taste with sugar 
sirup. Pour the fruit over the ice-cream, nearly filling 
the glass. 

Maple Sauce for Ice-Cream. 

Put one pound of maple sugar, broken or rolled, one 
cup of thin cream, and two tablespoons of butter in a 
granite saucepan, and boil without stirring until it 
forms a soft, waxy ball when dropped in cold water. 
Keep the pan in another of hot water on the back of 
the stove until ready to serve. It will candy on the 
ice-cream like hot maple sirup on the snow in sugaring 
time. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

One can of grated pineapple, one cup of sugar, juice 
of two lemons, one tablespoon of powdered gelatin, 
one quart of water or milk. 



192 Home Science Cook Book. 

Cafe Frappe. 

Dissolve three-fourths cup of sugar in a quart of 
coffee. Freeze soft, serve in glasses with whipped 
cream on top. Use about equal parts of salt and ice 
for freezing. 

Grape Sherbet. 

Chill a quart of rich milk in the freezer. Warm 
half a pint of Concord grape jelly; as it dissolves add 
half a cup of sugar. Mix with the milk and freeze. 
Or use one pint of grape juice with thin cream. 

Frozen Mint. 

Make a quart of lemon ice. To two tablespoons of 
water add one teaspoon of essence of peppermint, and 
stir into the ice, with enough spinach coloring to make 
it a delicate green ; pack in a mold and bury in ice 
and salt ; the mint is greatly improved by standing. 
Serve like a cordial, in small glasses. 

Ice-Cream from Left-Overs. 

A pint of boiled custard left from yesterday's 
dessert, a saucerful of canned pears, an equal quantity 
of some other fruit, and one-half cup of cream, sweet- 
ened and flavored, more if necessary may be frozen 
into a delicious dessert. 

Many such combinations may be made from what 
happens to be on hand that will prove satisfactory 
enough to bear repetition. 

Ice-Cream Croquettes. 

Shape well-frozen cream by packing solidly into a 
small scoop, then roll the cream in crumbs of maca- 
roons which have been rolled and softened. 



Desserts. 193 

Creamy Sauce for Puddings. 

Rub one-half cup of butter until creamy. Gradu- 
ally add one cup of powdered sugar and one-half cup 
of thick cream. Flavor as desired. 

Fruit Sauce. 

Blend one-half cup of butter and one cup of sugar, 
and gradually work in one-half cup of jelly or thick 
fruit juice. 

Hard Sauce. 

Pour one tablespoon of boiling water over one-half 
cup of butter, stir until creamy, and mix in one cup 
of granulated sugar. Flavor with nutmeg, or extract 
of lemon or mace. Serve in orange or lemon cups, or 
heap in a small dish. 

Golden Sauce. 

Rub one-half cup of butter till soft, add one-half cup 
of light brown sugar, and beat until very light and 
creamy. Beat the yolks of two eggs, and when ready 
to serve put the bowl or pan containing the sugar over 
boiling water and stir until it is liquid, then add the 
eggs, one-eighth teaspoon of mace, and one-half cup of 
fruit juice, and stir until it thickens. Serve at once 
and stir it before each pouring. 

Sponge Sauce. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with one-fourth cup of 
powdered sugar, and pour one-half cup of boiling fruit 
juice over the mixture. Then fold in the stiff whites 
of the eggs and serve at once. 

Liquid Sauce with Variations. 

Grate the rind of an orange or lemon and squeeze 



194 Home Science Cook Book. 

the juice over it. In a saucepan, mix one cup of sugar 
with one-fourth cup of flour or half as much corn- 
starch. Pour in one pint of boiling water, and cook 
from five to ten minutes, till thick and nearly clear, 
stirring constantly. Add one ounce of butter and the 
orange, and strain. This sauce will keep for several 
days, and may be reheated. 

The yolk of one or more eggs may be blended with 
the sauce just before straining, and the stiff whites 
folded in after. Other fruit juices may take the place 
of part of the liquid. 

Molasses Sauce. 

Scald one cup of molasses with one ounce of butter 
and one tablespoon of vinegar. Serve hot with apple 
dumplings. 

Chocolate Sauce. 

Melt one ounce of chocolate in one-half cup of water ; 
add one cup of sugar, and when boiling, pour over one- 
half cup of thick cream, plain or whipped, and serve at 
once. 

Caramel Sauce. 

Make a sirup as for caramel custard, and serve plain, 
or combined with thick cream whipped. 



Cakes. 195 



Cakes. 

THE old-fashioned pound cake, or cup cake, or 
" one, two, three, four " cake is the mother of all the 
many cakes of to-day in which butter is used. While 
the old "diet bread " or sponge cake is the foundation 
from which the angel and sunshine cakes, the lady 
fingers, jelly rolls, and meringues have been derived. 

A certain relative proportion is to be followed in 
butter cakes ; there is less butter than sugar, and less 
sugar than flour. Less baking powder is required 
with a given measure of flour than would be necessary 
for a dough without eggs. Thus an even teaspoon of 
baking powder is ample for each cup of flour for a 
cake where several eggs are used. When there is an 
excess of baking powder, the cake is liable to be 
coarse grained and to dry quickly. 

The doughnut mixture is not unlike a cottage pud- 
ding dough, with the addition of flour to make it stiff 
enough to roll easily. Or it is similar to the quick 
biscuit dough, with the addition of sugar, egg, and 
spice. Because doughnuts are cooked in fat, less 
shortening is required than for most stiff doughs. 

Cooky doughs are more like pastry, with the addi- 
tion of sugar, spice, and egg, and the same care should 
be given to keeping the dough cold in order to roll 
and cut it without adhering to the board. 

Changes in the proportions of materials often lead 
to changes in the manner of mixing them. For ex- 
ample, where a small quantity of shortening is used in 
batters, it may be melted and beaten in, but where a 



196 Home Science Cook Book. 

large proportion is required, it should be rubbed till 
creamy and blended with the sugar as for cake, or 
mixed into the flour as in pastry-making. For stiff 
doughs which are to be rolled, it is essential that the 
fat should be cold, since even a small quantity, if 
warm, will tend to make the dough soft and sticky. 

The shape in which cake is to be baked should de- 
cide the proportion of flour to be used. Layer cakes 
or small cakes require less flour than large loaves. 
This is probably because the small cake is stiffened 
quicker by the heat. 

Variations in cake are easily obtained through 
changes in flavoring ingredients. To mix chocolate in 
the cake, melt it and mix with the sugar and butter. 

Almond paste can be rubbed into the butter and 
sugar in making cookies.; it is rather rich and heavy 
for a cake. Desiccated cocoanut, chopped nuts, raisins, 
currants, dates, citron, candied orange, and lemon 
peel, singly or in various combinations, serve to give 
many cakes from a single recipe. 

In rubbing butter and sugar to a cream the warmth 
of the bowl, or the hand if that be used, or from the 
friction, causes the butter to soften and become almost 
a liquid or like thick cream; that is why we call it 
" creaming the butter." Some of the sugar also is 
dissolved and combines with the soft butter. When 
milk is added, especially if it be colder, as it usually 
is, it immediately chills the butter and causes it to 
harden again in tiny lumps. It also unites with the 
sugar which has melted and dissolves any that may be 
still in a crystallized form, and separates it from the 
butter. The milk does not become sour as it does 
when curdled by an acid, but the hardened butter 



Gakes. 197 

separates from the liquid and gives the curdled ap- 
pearance. Probably the fat in the butter unites with 
the fat of the milk, but as fat does not unite 
readily with water, the whey or water of the milk 
separates from the other parts. 

In beating the eggs we make bubbles of air similar 
to soap bubbles when air is blown into soapy water ; 
the albumen of the egg forming the wall of the air 
cell. When the eggs are beaten into the butter the 
fat combines with the albumen and helps to entangle 
and hold the air, but when we stir a watery liquid, like 
milk, into the mixture, we break up some of these fine 
bubbles and this makes large cells, and the result is a 
coarse-grained cake, unless we beat in at the last 
enough more air to make another lot of bubbles. 

This may be avoided by simply pouring the milk 
into the bowl and not stirring it until the flour is 
added ; or, better still, by adding a few spoonfuls of 
flour first, then a little of the milk, and then a little 
flour, beating well after each time, and so on, alter- 
nately, until the full measure is used. Add the be-aten 
whites last. All cakes made with butter require to be 
beaten long and vigorously after the flour is in that 
they may be smooth and fine grained 

Sponge Cake. 

Grate the yellow rind from half a lemon, squeeze 
the juice over it, let it stand awhile, then strain. Use 
from four to six eggs according to their size. Beat 
the yolks thoroughly, add one cup of sugar, and the 
lemon juice, and beat again. Sprinkle one-fourth 
teaspoon of salt over the whites of the eggs and beat 
until stiff, but not too dry. Fold a part of the stiff 



198 Home Science Cook Book. 

whites into the yolks, sift over part of one cup of 
flour, then add the remainder of the whites and of the 
flour. Do not stir to break the air bubbles. Bake in 
a moderate oven for nearly one hour, if in one loaf. 
A sprinkle of powdered sugar over the top of the 
cake before the pan is put in the oven produces a 
flaky crust. 

Lady Fingers, Sponge Drops, Layer Cakes. 

The sponge or angel cake mixture may be used for 
sponge drops or put through a pastry bag and tube for 
lady fingers, or baked in patty pans or in layers. 

Chocolate Sponge Cake. 

Make as above, sifting one ounce of cocoa with the 
sugar or flour. 

White Sponge Cake or Angel Cake. 

Use one cup each of egg whites and sugar, and one 
scant cup of flour, one-half teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
one-fourth teaspoon of salt, and one-half teaspoon of 
flavoring, almond or vanilla. Beat the egg whites 
stiff, sifting the cream of tartar over them, and add 
flavoring. Mix sugar, salt, and flour and sift several 
times, then sift gently over the stiff whites, and fold 
together with as little mixing as possible. Sometimes 
the sugar is added first and the flour afterward. 

Putin an ungreased pan with a center funnel and bake 
in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. Then invert 
the pan until the cake slips out. Frost if desired. 

Sunshine Cake. 

This is angel cake to which is added half as many 
yolks as whites of eggs. 



Cakes. 199 

Hot Water Cake. 

Beat two eggs with a scant cup of sugar until very 
light, add one-fourth teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon 
of lemon extract, and one-fourth cup of rapidly boiling 
water, beating all the time. Quickly stir in one cup 
of flour in which one teaspoon of baking powder has 
been sifted. 

Bake in small pans or layers. 

Meringues or Kisses. 

Beat egg whites stiff, and fold in one-fourth cup of 
powdered sugar for each white. A little cream of 
tartar may be used as for angel cake. Flavor, drop in 
small shapes on ungreased paper, and bake slowly for 
thirty minutes or more, until dry and slightly brown. 

The mixture may be heaped on small crackers or 
cookies, and then baked. Cocoa, desiccated cocoanut, 
chopped nuts, color pastes, or tiny candies may be 
used to give variety. 

When desired to fill with cream, put the paper over 
a board before baking. The under part will not be 
cooked, and may be scraped out, leaving a crisp shell 
to fill. 

Plain Cake. 

With one- fourth cup (two ounces) of butter creamed, 
mix gradually three-fourths cup of sugar, next add two 
egg yolks and beat thoroughly, then add alternately 
one-half cup of milk and one and one-half cups of 
flour in which two teaspoons of baking powder have 
been sifted. Flavor with one saltspoon 'of spice or 
one-half teaspoon of extract. Lastly fold in two egg 
whites stiffly beaten. 



200 Home Science Cook Book. 

White Cake. 

Leave out the yolks and mix as plain cake. The 
whites of three eggs may be used instead of two. 

Chocolate Cake or Devil's Food. 

Melt one ounce of chocolate and add to the creamed 
butter and sugar of the plain cake. Or use one-fourth 
cup of cocoa instead of chocolate. Flavor with vanilla. 

Marble or Leopard Cake. 

Color half of the plain cake dough with one-half 
ounce of chocolate melted, or with two tablespoons of 
molasses or caramel and one teaspoon of mixed spice. 

Mix the white and dark cake in the pan so they will 
be mingled and yet distinct. 

Ribbon Cake. 

To one-third of the plain cake dough add one tea- 
spoon of mixed spice, two tablespoons of molasses or 
caramel, and one-half cup of chopped raisins. Bake 
this in one pan and the remainder in two pans, and 
when done put the fruit cake between the others with 
a layer of frosting to hold them together. 

Nut Cake. 

To the plain cake add one-half cup of fine chopped 
walnuts, or pecans. Bake in two shallow pans, and 
cover with boiled frosting, and ornament with halved 
nuts. 

Light Fruit Cake. 

To the plain cake add the fruit. last. Use one-fourth 
cup of citron sliced very thin, one-fourth cup of cur- 
rants, and one-half cup of seeded and chopped raisins. 
A little mace will improve the flavor. 



Cakes. 201 

Orange Cake. 

Bake the plain cake in two rather thick layers. 
Between these put a thick cream or custard filling, 
flavored with orange juice and rind ; or the pulp cut 
fine and sweetened, and thickened with gelatin. 
Cover the top layer with orange frosting. This frost- 
ing is sometimes used between the layers in place of 
the cut orange or cream filling. 

Silver Cake. 

Mix like the plain cake, omitting the egg yolks and 
using four whites. 

Gold Cake. 

Omit the egg whites and use the four yolks. 

Sunrise Cake. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, add one cup of sugar, 
the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, one-half cup of milk, 
and two cups of flour, with which two teaspoons of 
baking powder has been sifted. Flavor with one-half 
teaspoon each of lemon and vanilla extract. 

Pound Cake. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, gradually add three- 
fourths cup of sugar and work till very smooth and 
light. Add a saltspoon of mace, a tablespoon of lemon 
juice, and one by one beat in three eggs. Then mix in 
one cup of flour. Bake in small shapes in a moderate 
oven for half an hour or more. 

Fruit Cake. 

To the pound cake mixture above add one teaspoon 
of mixed spice and from one-half to one pound of 
fruit, currants, chopped raisins, and sliced citron. 



202 Home Science Cook Book. 

Macaroons. 

Crumble or grate one-fourth pound or one-half cup 
of almond paste, mix with one egg white, and beat till 
smooth and stiff. Gradually add one-fourth to one- 
half cup of powdered sugar. Roll in balls or drop 
from a teaspoon on ungreased paper spread on pans. 
Bake in a moderate oven about thirty minutes. Brush 
the under side of the paper with water to remove it 
from the cakes. 

Oatmeal Macaroons. 

Rub one tablespoon of butter into one-half cup of 
sugar, and mix with one well-beaten egg. Stir in one 
and one-half cups of rolled oats, one-fourth teaspoon of 
salt, and one-half teaspoon of baking powder. 

Drop small shapes on greased pans, and bake in a 
hot oven until brown and crisp. 

Cream Puffs. 

Put one cup of water in a small saucepan on the 
stove with one-fourth cup of butter and one saltspoon 
of salt. When boiling, quickly stir in one cup of flour 
and let it cook, stirring constantly till the mass leaves 
the sides of the pan in a smooth ball of paste. Milk 
may be used instead of water. 

When cool, beat in four eggs, one at a time, then 
beat the mixture thoroughly. Drop on buttered pans 
and bake thirty minutes, until light and dry when 
lifted from the pan. Then they will not shrivel up 
afterward. 

This quantity will make one dozen large puffs. 
The paste may be kept uncooked in a cool place for a 
day or two. 



Cakes. 203 

Such shells may be filled with creamed meat like 
those made from puff pastry, but the sweet fillings are 
more commonly used. 

An ounce of chopped or grated cheese, or fine 
chopped ham, is sometimes stirred into the cream puff 
paste, which is then baked or fried in small shapes to 
serve with soups or salads. 

Eclairs. 

The same mixture as for cream puffs is put through 
a bag and tube in long, narrow rolls. When baked, 
they are filled with a thick cream filling and are 
frosted. 

Vanity Fritters. 

Fry the cream puff dough by teaspoonfuls in deep 
fat until puffy, brown, and crisp. Drain on paper, 
then roll in a mixture of sugar and cinnamon. 

Sections of fruit may be coated with this mixture 
and fried for fruit fritters. 

White Frosting. 

One egg white, one teaspoon of lemon juice, one 
cup of powdered sugar. Beat together for five min- 
utes or till it begins to thicken. Spread over the cake 
and give it time to harden. For pink frosting beat in 
a few drops of dissolved pink gelatin. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

One-half ounce chocolate, melted, two tablespoons of 
boiling water, mix with about one cup of powdered 
sugar. Flavor further with vanilla if desired. 

Coffee Frosting. 

Steep one-fourth cup of coffee in one-half cup of 



204 Home Science Cook Book. 

water for ten minutes, and strain. Mix two table, 
spoons of this extract with each cup of powdered 
sugar. 

Orange Frosting. 

Grate the rind from a yellow orange. Squeeze two 
or three tablespoons of juice over it, and let it stand 
for an hour or more. Strain and mix the juice with 
one cup of powdered sugar or enough to keep its shape 
when spread on the cake. The yolk of an egg may be 
added to supply lack of color in the orange. 

Frosting. 

One cup of powdered sugar, one tablespoon of corn- 
starch, two tablespoons of water or milk, flavor as 
desired. Spread with a wet knife. 

Boiled Frosting. 

Boil one cup of fine granulated sugar with one-third 
cup of hot water in which one-fourth teaspoon of 
cream of tartar is dissolved without stirring, until the 
sirup taken up on a skewer will " thread " or " rope." 
When it is at that point, beat one egg white stiff, and 
pour the boiling sirup over the egg in a fine stream, 
beating well. When it thickens and is perfectly 
smooth, pour it over the cake. It hardens cfuickly, 
and should be put on the cake before it stiffens enough 
to drop. 

Boiled Chocolate Frosting. 

Add two tablespoons of cocoa or one square of 
chocolate, melted, to the sirup described above while 
it is still hot. 



Cakes. 205 

Caramel Frosting. 

Boil one cup of light brown sugar, one tablespoon 
of butter, one-third cup of cream in a granite sauce- 
pan until, when dropped in cold water, it is hard 
enough to be waxy. Stir only enough to keep from 
burning. Flavor with vanilla. Then set the pan in 
cold water, as it hardens, spread it on the cake while 
it is still soft enough to spread. It will settle into a 
smooth surface almost instantly. 

Cream Filling. 

Scald one cup of milk (or part milk, part coffee, or 
fruit juice), reserving enough to mix with two table- 
spoons of flour, add this to the hot milk, stir smooth, 
and cook ten to twenty minutes, then add one beaten 
egg or two yolks; cook one or two minutes longer. 
Take from the fire, add one-half cup of sugar, one- 
half teaspoon of flavoring. When cool, spread between 
layers or put in cream puffs. 

Orange Butter. 

In a double boiler cook together one-fourth pound 
of butter, one cup of sugar, the grated rind and the 
juice of two oranges, and two eggs or four yolks. 
Strain and use when cold between layer cakes, or with 
the addition of chopped raisins, currants, citron, and 
candied peel as a filling for turnovers of pastry. 

Fruit Filling for Cakes. 

Bake a sponge-cake in layers. Chop fine one cup of 
stewed prunes or other fruit or rub through a strainer, 
beat the whites of four eggs to a froth, add the fruit 
and sugar to sweeten. Spread half of this on one 



206 Home Science Cook Book. 

layer of cake, put on the second layer and the re- 
mainder of the filling, and whipped cream on top of 
that. 

Fig Filling. 

Chop one pound of figs, add one-half cup of sugar 
and one tablespoon of lemon juice, one cup of water, 
and stew until soft and smooth. Spread between the 
layers, and ice the whole cake with boiled icing. 

Mocha Cream Filling. 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter, adding gradually 
one cup of powdered sugar. Flavor with coffee 
extract, prepared as for coffee frosting. Combine 
with one-half cup of cream filling. This may be put 
through a bag and tube on top of cakes. 

Cookies. 

It is unnecessary to have many recipes in order to 
obtain different kinds of cookies. A single good 
formula may be varied to suit all occasions, provided 
one understands how to mix such a dough ; otherwise, 
all recipes are of little avail. 

When variety is desired, before all the flour is 
added, divide the mixture into four portions ; to one 
add one teaspoon of lemon extract, to another one-half 
cup of desiccated cocoanut, to the third, one-half 
ounce of chocolate, melted, or a tablespoon of cocoa 
sifted in with a little flour ; to the fourth, one teaspoon 
of mixed spice and a half cup of chopped raisins and 
citron. 

The dough may be further divided and one portion 
flavored with ginger, another with rose, another with 
almond, and chopped almonds sprinkled on top, when 



Cakes. 207 

cut out, and the last flavored with mace, chopped 
lemon peel, and currants. 

Or roll part of the dough in a thin sheet and 
sprinkle with cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. Fold 
the sheet once, gently roll it to former thickness, cut 
out and bake. These cookies will be aromatic, but 
with no outward sign of spice. For variety, finely 
chopped raisins or dates or well-crushed English 
walnuts may be folded in with the spice. 

Fancy cutters lend their aid in furnishing an assort- 
ment of cookies from a single lot of dough, and are 
desirable when these sweetmeats are for children's 
parties. 

To avoid confusion afterward, each flavor may be 
cut in a different shape. Where one has not a variety 
of fancy cutters, a pastry-wheel or jagger can be used, 
or with a good eye and a steady hand, all sorts of 
shapes, letters, etc., may be cut with an ordinary 
knife. 

After baking, a part of the cakes may be iced and 
decorated with colored frostings. 

Slight changes in some of the quantities used will 
bring about different results. For a thick soft cake, 
use less flour and drop on the pan from a spoon, or 
roll with the hands into balls the size of a nutmeg and 
flatten a little after placing on the buttered pan. 

It is easy to see how a recipe for plain cookies may 
be merged into a richer one by increasing the quanti- 
ties of butter, sugar, and egg, or by decreasing the 
flour and liquid. The foundation, of most of the old- 
time recipes for cookies closely resemble pound-cake. 
Baking powder is not made to do the work of eggs, nor 
is any other fat allowed in place of sweet, solid butter; 



208 Home Science Cook Book. 

these were the only secrets of their good flavor and 
keeping qualities. 

Some butter contains so much sour milk or cream 
that in cookies that are to be kept for a long time it is 
desirable to add a bit of soda to counteract this acidity. 

Entire wheat flour, or half oatmeal, half white flour, 
may be used in place of all white flour in cookies for 
children. 

Plain Cookies. 

Rub one-half cup of butter until creamy, gradually 
add one cup of sugar, then put in one egg and beat 
together thoroughly. Next add, alternately, one-half 
cup of milk or water and one pint of flour in which 
two teaspoons of baking powder have been sifted. 
Use enough more flour to make a soft dough, from 
one to two cupfuls, according to the nature of the 
flour. 

Cream Cookies. 

Mix together one-half cup of thick sour cream, one 
egg, one cup of sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, one 
pint of flour in which one-fourth of a level teaspoon of 
soda has been sifted, and enough more flour to make 
a dough that can be rolled. Flavor with one table- 
spoon of caraway seeds. 

Cookies. 

Cream one cup of butter, add two cups of sugar, aiiil 
three eggs, one at a time, beating each in thoroughly 
before adding the next. Then add a bit of soda, about 
one-eighth of a level teaspoon dissolved in a table- 
spoon of cold water, and next gradually work in about 
one quart or four cups of flour. 



Cakes. 209 

Or use less flour and drop from a tablespoon on a 
buttered dripping pan, about two inches apart, and 
put nuts on the top of each. They may run together, 
but can be cut apart before they are cold. 

Or grease the under side of a baking sheet and 
dredge a very little flour on it. Spread the dough 
upon the pan with the rolling-pin or a knife, till less 
than a quarter of an inch in thickness. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

Make a boiled icing and spread on the cake while it 
is still warm. While the icing is still soft, scatter 
candied caraway seeds thickly upon it. When cold, cut 
the cake in strips an" inch and a half wide; cutting 
these strips diagonally will form diamonds. 

Wafers. 

Cream one-fourth cup (two ounces) of butter gradu- 
ally, add one-half cup of powdered sugar, and almost, 
drop by drop, four tablespoons of milk. Next mix in 
a scant cup of bread flour and a few drops of any 
flavoring extract preferred. Spread on the bottom of 
an inverted dripping pan as thin as possible. The 
pan should be buttered unless it is very smooth. 

Mark in squares, then sprinkle with nuts, and bake 
in a moderate oven. In five minutes they should be 
ready to roll, and this must be done at the oven door 
before they have a chance to cool a particle. Some- 
times they are rolled over the handle of a wooden 
spoon. 

Almond paste may be creamed in with the butter, 
or flavor with cinnamon or vanilla. 

These may be tinted pink or green with color pastes. 
They may be kept some little time in good conditioii 



210 Home Science Cook Book. 

by putting them between layers of paraffin paper in 
air-tight cases. 

Orange Wafers. 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter, add one-half cup of 
sugar, the yolks of two eggs, one tablespoon of orange 
juice in which the grated peel has been soaked. Mix 
with one scant cup of flour with which one teaspoon of 
baking powder has been sifted. Chill, roll very thin, 
and put a bit of candied orange peel on each. 

Hermits. 

One cup each of butter and sugar, two eggs, one- 
fourth teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon of cloves, a little nutmeg, one-fourth 
teaspoon of salt, and enough flour to make it stiff 
enough to drop. Stir in one cup or more of raisins, 
which have been chopped fine, or part raisins and part 
nuts. Mix in the order given, and drop from a table- 
spoon into a well-buttered shallow pan, or add more 
flour, and roll and cut. 

Peanut Cookies. 

Cream together two ounces of butter and one-half 
cup of sugar, add one egg, well beaten, two table- 
spoons of milk, and one-half teaspoon of salt. 

Mix one teaspoon of baking powder with one cup of 
flour, stir it in, and add one cup of finely chopped 
peanuts. Drop it by the teaspoonful on buttered tins 
an inch or two apart, put a half peanut on each, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Molasses Cookies. 
Scald one cup of molasses, take from the stove and 



Cakes. 211 

stir in one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, 
one tablespoon of ginger, and a little salt. When 
cool, add one-fourth cup of water in which one-half 
teaspoon of soda is dissolved. Mix with enough flour 
to make a soft dough about one quart. Roll till 
about one-eighth inch thick, cut out, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Soft Molasses Gingerbread. 

vSift together one pint of flour, one-half teaspoon 
each of salt and soda, and one teaspoon of ginger. 
Mix with one scant cup of molasses and two table- 
spoons of fat softened in one-half cup of hot water. 
Spread in a shallow pan or bake in muffin pans for 
twenty minutes or more in a moderate oven. 

Shredded cocoanut or almonds or peanuts may be 
sprinkled over the top of the gingerbread in the pans 
before baking. 

Doughnuts. 

Sift one quart of sifted flour with one teaspoon of 
salt, three teaspoons of baking powder, one-half tea- 
spoon of mixed spice, and one cup of sugar. Mix 
with one beaten egg and one cup of milk. Or use one- 
half teaspoon of soda and one cup of sour milk in place 
of sweet milk, sifting the soda with the other dry 
materials. 

For richer doughnuts add another egg and one table- 
spoon of thick cream or melted butter. 



212 Home Science Cook Book. 



Cheese. 

Every bit of dry cheese should be saved and 
chopped or grated to add to cereals, omelets, souffle's, 
etc. , recipes for which will be found elsewhere. 

A bottle of Parmesan cheese is a valuable addition 
to any store closet. 

Cheese Crackers. 

Use saltines or common crackers split. Spread with 
butter and brown in the oven, then put as much 
grated cheese on each cracker as it will hold, and 
again put in the oven until the cheese is melted. 

Serve with salad or coffee. 

Cheese Toast. 

Make French toast in the usual way, dipping bread 
in egg and milk and browning in hot fat. Then put 
in a pan, cover each slice with cheese seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and toast under the gas flame till the 
cheese is melted and begins to crisp. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Put soft, rich cheese through a potato ricer, or chop 
it fine; for each cupful use one egg yolk and two 
tablespoons of milk. Mix thoroughly, and season to 
suit the taste. Spread between thin slices of bread, 
pressing them well together, then cut in strips. Beat 
the white of the egg with one-half cup of milk, dip the 
sandwiches in this, drain them, and saute* in butter. 

Cheese Sticks. 
Sift together one cup of flour, one teaspoon of 



Cheese. 213 

baking powder, one-half teaspoon of salt, and a speck 
of cayenne. Rub in one ounce of butter, and mix 
into a dough with one egg yolk and one-third cup of 
milk. Last, mix in two ounces of cheese, grated or 
chopped fine. Divide in ten or twelve portions, and 
shape in sticks a foot long. Bake brown. 

These are suitable to serve with soups or salads. 

Cheese Puffs. 

Use the cream puff mixture, adding one-half cup of 
grated cheese. Bake in small shapes, or fry in deep 
fat. 

Cheese Cream Toast. 

Make one cup of white sauce and in it melt one cup 
or more of grated cheese. Season with salt and pa- 
prika, and pour over pieces of toasted bread, brown or 

white. 

Cheese Straws. 

Fold any scraps of pastry dough together and roll 
out thin, sprinkle with grated cheese and salt and 
pepper; fold and roll again. Cut in half -inch strips, 
and bake until crisp and brown. 

Welsh Rabbit. (Chafing-Dish.) 

Have ready one tablespoon of butter creamed with 
one teaspoon of corn-starch, one-fourth teaspoon of 
salt, and a few grains of cayenne, also one-half pound 
of cheese grated or crumbled fine, one-half teaspoon 
of mushroom ketchup, and some wafers, or squares of 
delicate toast. Heat one-half cup of cream in the 
blazer, and blend with it the butter mixture. When 
thick set it over the hot water, add the cheese and 
ketchup, stir till melted, then pour it over the wafers. 



214 Home Science Cook 

Welsh Rabbit. 

In the tipper part of a double boiler melt one ounce 
of butter, then put in one-half pound of rich cheese 
cut fine. Beat two egg yolks, add one-half teaspoon 
of salt, one saltspoon of paprika, and one-half cnp of 
milk. As the cheese melts add the other mixture 
gradually. Stir till smooth and slightly thickened, 
and serve at once. If the cheese seems dry mix a 
portion of the milk with it at the beginning. 

Cheese Fondu. 

Mix one cup each of milk, bread-crumbs, and 
chopped or grated cheese in a double boiler. When 
the cheese is melted add one beaten egg, and season 
with salt, pepper, and mustard. If the cheese is not 
rich put in one teaspoon of butter. Serve when thick- 
ened. More egg or less cheese can be used if pre- 
ferred. 

Rice or other cooked cereals may take the place of 
the bread. 

Another way to prepare this dish is to put bread 
and cheese in layers in a buttered pudding dish, mix 
the egg with milk and seasoning, pour over, then bake 
until firm. 

Cheese Canapes. 

Allow the beaten white of one egg to each cup of 
finely crumbled or grated cheese, a speck of salt and 
cayenne. Remove the crust from inch-thick slices of 
bread, hollow out center, making a box, fill with the 
cheese mixture heaped, bake about ten minutes and 
serve on napkin. 



Cheese. 215 

Fresh Cheese Curds. 

Warm one quart of milk and stir into it one junket 
tablet dissolved in a little water. Stir occasionally to 
break the curd and separate the whey. Put a piece 
of cheese-cloth over a strainer and drain the curd in it. 
Add salt to the curd and press thoroughly. 

Those who do not like sour milk cheese often like 
these sweet curds. 



216 Home Science Cook Book. 

Nuts. 

Salted Almonds. 

Shell the nuts and blanch by covering for a moment 
with boiling water, then put in cold water and rub off 
the skins. To a pint of nuts add two tablespoons of 
olive oil or melted butter, let them stand for an hour 
or two, stirring occasionally. Then sprinkle with two 
tablespoons of salt, and put in a moderate oven and 
bake till all are a delicate brown, fifteen or twenty 
minutes, stirring often. 

Or the nuts may be fried thus : 

In a saucepan or the chafing-dish put three-fourths 
of a cup of oil, and when this is hot put in the nuts, a 
few at a time. Stir until they become a delicate brown, 
then drain on paper. The nuts are cooked more evenly 
and become more brittle than when done in the oven. 

Peanuts and pecans may be prepared in this way. 

Roasted Chestnuts. 

Cut a slit in the shell of each chestnut, put them in 
a perforated pan, or a popcorn popper, over an open 
fire. Shake them while cooking. They are done 
when they burst and will peel easily. Serve hot. 

Lyonnaise Chestnuts. 

Parboil, shell, skin, and cut in slices one pound of 
chestnuts. Chop a small onion and fry in two ounces 
of butter ; when yellow put in the chestnuts seasoned 
with salt and pepper ; stir till heated through and the 
butter is absorbed. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, 
and serve hot with meats. 



Beverages. 217 



Beverages. 

Cocoa Shells and Nibs. 

The shells and cracked cocoa may be used together 
or separately, and are prepared in much the same way. 
They may be soaked previously, but in either case 
require long cooking with six or eight times their bulk 
of water. Then strain and serve with milk and sugar. 

Cocoa. 

Mix two tablespoons each of sugar and cocoa with 
a few grains of salt and a very little boiling water, add 
one pint of boiling water, and boil for two minutes; 
then combine with an equal quantity of boiling hot milk. 

Chocolate. 

Use from one to two ounces of chocolate for one 
quart. Melt the chocolate, and proceed as for cocoa. 

Tea. 

There are many grades of tea, the prices differing 
much more than with different grades of coffee; but 
the same general directions for making tea apply to 
all. 

An earthen teapot or the silver tea ball in the cup 
are the best utensils. Fresh boiling water is essential. 
The process must be rapid; flavor is lost by long 
steeping, and boiling brings out undesirable flavors 
and injurious substances. 

Left-over tea, if drained immediately from the 
leaves, may be served a second time as iced tea. 

The usual proportion is one teaspoon of tea to each 
cup of boiling water. 



2i8 Home Science Cook Book. 

Sometimes the tea is rinsed off with boiling water 
before it is put in the teapot. 

The teapot is first scalded, the tea put in, the boil- 
ing water added, the pot covered with a ''cozy," or 
left on the back of the stove for five minutes or less, 
until the leaves have absorbed water enough to settle 
to the bottom of the pot. 

Russian Tea. 

Make tea in the usual way. Put two cubes of sugar 
and one slice of lemon into cups. Pour on the tea and 
serve. Never let the tea leaves remain in the tea. 

If desired cold, make the tea stronger, pour it from 
the grounds as soon as steeped into glasses half full 
of cracked ice. 

Coffee. 

Good coffee cannot be made from an inferior grade 
of the coffee berry, or from any which has been ground 
and exposed to the air, since it loses aroma rapidly. 

Few housekeepers now have coffee roasted or even 
ground at home. 

When only one or two members of a family drink 
coffee it should be bought in pound or half pound lots, 
and be put at once into jars with close covers. The 
finer the coffee is ground the greater the amount of 
flavor extracted, but powdered coffee requires a spe- 
cial filtering attachment to the coffee pot. 

When egg is used to settle coffee the beverage is less 
strong from the same quantity, but there is an added 
richness. 

An earthen or agate ware coffee pot is preferable to 
a tin one, and any pot requires great care to keep it 
perfectly clean. 



Beverages. 219 

To retain all possible flavor a cork or soft paper 
should be put in the spout of the coffee pot while it is 
on the stove. 

A minute quantity of salt, one saltspoon or less to 
one cup of dry coffee, brings out the flavor somewhat. 

Filtered Coffee. 

Put one-half cup of fine coffee in the strainer of a 
French coffee pot on the back of the stove. Gradually 
pour in one quart of boiling water, half a cup at a 
time, keeping the pot covered between times. The 
coffee may be poured through a second time if desired. 
Less water may be used when hot milk is to be served 
with the coffee. Remove the strainer before taking 
the pot to the table. 

After Dinner Coffee. 

Filtered coffee is preferred for this purpose. It is 
made doubly strong, using one-fourth cup of coffee to 
each cup of water. 

Coffee without Egg. 

Allow one heaping tablespoon of coffee for each cup. 
Scald the coffee pot. Pour the boiling water on the 
coffee and boil five minutes. Set it back where it will 
keep hot, but not boil. Add a little cold water ; pour 
out a little and pour back again, to clear the spout. 

Or the coffee and cold water may be put together in 
the pot over night and brought to the boiling point in 
the morning. 

Coffee with Egg. 

Mix one cup of ground coffee with one egg slightly 
beaten, add one cup of cold water, and put in an agate 



220 Home Science Cook Book. 

coffee pot with three pints of boiling water. Boil five 
minutes or less, pour off some to clear the spout, pour 
back, and add one-half cup of cold water to finish 
clearing. Let it stand five minutes before serving, 
then strain from the grounds into another pot for the 
table. 

Coffee for Fairs and Sociables. 

On account of the difficulty in straining a large 
quantity, the ground coffee is usually placed in bags, 
not more than a pound in each, and put into the boiler 
with cold water. 

Then it is covered closely, heated slowly, and al- 
lowed to boil about ten minutes. It should then be 
kept hot, but not boiling, and be dipped out into hot 
pitchers as desired. By allowing one-half ounce, 
or one rounded tablespoon, for each half-pint cup of 
water, and one cup for each person, one can easily 
compute the amount required for any number of peo- 
ple. At this rate, one pound of coffee, or thirty-two 
half ounces, would make thirty-two half-pint cups, or 
eight quarts, and would be sufficient for about thirty 
persons. One pound of ground coffee will be about 
one quart in measure. 

This proportion makes coffee of medium strength, 
but much depends upon the kind of coffee used. Usu- 
ally it is safer to make it quite strong, as in the haste 
and confusion incident to such gatherings it is easier 
to dilute it than to remedy it if too weak. 

Left-Over Coffee. 

With the most careful calculation often there is 
some coffee left over, not enough perhaps for another 



Beverages. 221 

serving as a beverage, but there are many ways in 
which it may be utilized. Do not, leave it in the pot 
with the grounds, but pour it off, or strain it carefully, 
and if to be used again hot let it just come to the boil- 
ing point. This will be much nicer than to reheat it 
with the grounds. It may be used to dilute the egg 
for the next morning's coffee, or as a flavoring in cus- 
tards and creams and ices, or as the liquid in place of 
or with milk in gingerbread, cookies, cakes, etc., or 
when there is sufficient quantity it can be made into 
jelly. 

Corn Coffee. 

Choose well-matured ears of yellow corn, shell, 
wash, and steam or boil for two hours in as little 
water as possible, drain in colander, then put it in 
large dripping pans, and dry in a slow oven, stir- 
ring it occasionally; when dry put it away in a 
bag until it is desired for use, then put one or two 
pounds in a pan and brown in the oven, stirring it 
every two minutes until it is the color of browned 
coffee. Do not burn any, as one or two grains which 
are burned will spoil the entire lot. After it is cool 
put away in tin or glass vessels. Grind as used. Take 
a heaping tablespoon of the ground corn for each cup 
of cold water used. Let it boil for a minute, set where 
it will keep hot, and steep for fifteen minutes. Serve 
with good rich cream. 

Fruit Punch. 

Make a sirup of one quart of water and one pound 
of sugar, and mix with one can of best grated pine- 
apple and one pint of fruit juice (oranges and lemons 
or currants). Add water and ice to make one gallon, 



222 Home Science Cook Book. 

and more sugar if required. When a fine quality of 
pineapple is used the drink need not be strained. 

Bits of candied cherries and banana may be added. 

The juice and pulp of almost any fruit or combina- 
tion of fruits may be the basis of an acceptable cold 
drink for hot weather. 

Fruits like the banana and peach should be com- 
bined with lemons or other fruits having acid juices. 
When fresh fruits are not abundant bottled grape 
juice, canned grated pineapple, currant jelly, stewed 
raisins, the water in which dried apricots have soaked, 
the sirup from preserved fruits, the acidulated gelatins, 
etc., may be useful. Cold tea is also helpful in extend- 
ing such drinks. A few cloves, or bits of cinnamon 
bark, and a little salt are sometimes used to give more 
flavor. Where there is a lack of lemons a little cream 
of tartar may be added, but nothing can take the 
place of fresh lemons. A very little gelatin gives 
smoothness, and pink gelatin is sometimes helpful 
when more color is desirable. 

The most satisfactory means of sweetening such 
beverages is a sirup made by boiling together for ten 
minutes or more one pound of sugar and one quart of 
water. This sirup may be made in large quantities 
and kept bottled ready for use. 



A Dinner without a Maid. 223 

How a Course Dinner May Be 
Served without a Maid. 

To give a course dinner without extra help is some- 
thing that many housekeepers who keep no servant 
hestitate to attempt. This detailed description is 
given place here as one of the most practical helps 
that can be given to the average housekeeper. The 
dinner described was given by a lady, assisted only by 
a friend who shared her home. 

The menu decided on was : 

Consomme. 

Broiled Steak with Fried Bananas. 
Creamed Spinach. Mashed Potato. 

Lettuce and Cucumber Salad. 
Walnut Caramel Cake. Macaroons. 

Fancy Cakes. 

Coffee Mousse. Cheese. 

Wafers and Coffee. 

The cake was bought at a Woman's Exchange, the 
soup was the best quality of canned consomme, and 
the mousse was ordered from a well-known caterer, as 
were also the delicate Vienna rolls. The spinach was 
boiled, rinsed, and drained early in the day, that there 
might be no lingering odor of it in the apartment. 
The lettuce was washed, drained, and wrapped in a 
wet napkin and laid on ice, with the cucumber and 
the cream for the salad, that they might be thoroughly 
chilled. The cans of consomme were opened, turned 
out into a large pan, ready for heating to the boiling 
point at the last moment, thus having a chance to be- 



224 Home Science Cook Book. 

come well aerated before serving. This left only the 
cooking of the potatoes, steak, and bananas, and the 
heating of the spinach and consomme* to be done on 
the gas range during the half hour before dinner was 
served. 

Early in the day, after the house was put in order, 
the table was made ready, and then the room was 
closed until night. 

No natural flowers were used, as those on the em- 
broidered centerpiece were fine imitations, but on the 
reflector in the center stood a small dish of ferns, low 
and broad. At intervals about the center were cut glass 
and fancy china dishes of pimolas, salted almonds, and 
pecans, and pink and green confections, with little 
fancy Venetian salt dishes conveniently near the 
plates. A china tray was laid at one end and filled 
with rolls. Seven covers were laid, consisting of din- 
ner plate, a bread and butter plate, with butter 
spreader near the left upper corner, and a tumbler at 
the upper right. Next to the plate on the right lay 
a knife with the sharp edge turned toward the plate, 
and a soup spoon (not a tablespoon) with the bowl up, 
and on the left were two forks with tines up. 

Beyond the forks lay the napkin, and above the 
plate the spoon for the ice-cream. In front of the 
hostess's plate was the ladle for the soup. On a 
small serving table near the door, the plates for the 
ice-cream and the salad were arranged at one end, 
leaving room near the front for the water pitcher, 
the bowl for salad dressing, and the hot plates. On 
the shelf were laid the plates for the cheese course, 
holding a finger-bowl half filled with warm water and 
resting on a netted and embroidered doily, and a small 



A Dinner without a Maid. 225 

tea knife for the cheese. A covered cheese dish stood 
near by with cheese knife, then the ice-cream cleaver, 
salad fork and spoon, serving spoons for the vegeta- 
bles, with small carving knife and fork, arranged in 
the order in which they would be needed. On a stand 
near the hostess's chair were the cups and spoons, 
sugar and cream, with tongs, ladle, etc., for the after- 
dinner coffee. The silver coffee pot and tureen, the 
platters for steak, ice-cream, and salad, the vegetable 
dishes and soup plates were laid out in order on the 
kitchen table ready for heating as needed. 

A half-pound print of butter was divided into inch 
cubes and laid in the ice chest, for to some tastes the 
working over of the butter into fancy shapes, balls, 
etc. , destroys much of its flavor, besides taking a deal 
of time. Nearly a pint of thick cream was whipped 
stiff; four tablespoons of lemon juice and four of 
grated horseradish, a teaspoon of salt, and several 
shakes of paprika were stirred in, and the mixture 
placed in the refrigerator, and then the salad dressing 
was ready. Just before the guests arrived the cake 
was arranged the fancy cakes in a shallow fancy 
dish and the loaf cake on a cake plate with a knife for 
serving near by ; the rolls were put on the table, one 
on each small plate, and the tray filled. The ice was 
broken and the glasses half filled with it, and the re- 
mainder put in a large pitcher, filled with water. The 
potatoes were pared and put on to boil, the soup pan 
drawn forward where it would boil quickly, the spin- 
ach put into a pan with butter and other seasoning 
and set back where it would only warm, two large 
spiders made ready for the bananas, and the tureen 
and soup plates filled with hot water. The guests 



226 Home Science Cook Book. 

came just on time. After wraps were removed and 
greetings exchanged, and they were all in the parlor, 
the hostess begged to be excused, leaving her friend to 
entertain the others, and in less time than it takes to 
tell it, the butter was on the plates, the glasses filled, 
the tureen emptied and wiped, and the soup plates 
wiped and on the table. During a flying trip to the 
kitchen while the guests were removing their wraps 
the broiling oven had been heated and the bananas put 
into the hot butter in the spider. They were now 
ready to be turned over, and then the flame was re- 
duced ; and also under the potatoes and spinach. The 
steak was put into the broiling oven at the last mo- 
ment, and the flame properly adjusted. The steak, 
by the way, was two inches thick, but could be per- 
fectly broiled under the gas flame. 

Dinner was announced, partners arranged, and 
when all were seated and the cover lifted, the soup 
was piping hot and served directly to those nearest the 
hostess on either side, and they in turn passed to those 
beyond them. When this course was finished, the 
hostess, having started a conversation which she 
knew would engage the attention of the guests, quietly 
rose, and as she left the table took the tureen to the 
kitchen. A moment later her friend at the opposite 
end of the table rose and removed her plate and that 
of the guest nearest her, taking two at a time to the 
kitchen, and in like manner removed the others, taking 
the under plate with the soup plate. This was pur- 
posely done in a quiet, leisurely manner, engaging in 
the conversation meanwhile. The steak was turned 
the instant the hostess entered the kitchen, the water 
drained from the potatoes, cream, butter, salt, and 



A Dinner without a Maid. 227 

pepper added, the pan returned to the fire ; then the 
spinach was drawn forward for a final heating 1 , tasted 
and seasoned, the platter wiped from its hot bath and 
quickly filled with the steak, which was spread with 
butter and salt, and garnished and partly covered with 
the bananas, which were also slightly salted. A few 
sprigs of parsley were laid on the ends, and that dish 
was ready. A few quick strokes with a masher and 
the potatoes were turned steaming hot, white and 
creamy, into their hot dish, and the spinach into a 
similar receptacle. By this time all the soup plates 
had been brought out ; and while the friend was taking 
in these hot dishes for this course, the soup spoons 
were quickly removed to a pitcher of hot water which 
was ready for them on the sink shelf, and the soup 
plates piled in order, and the dinner plates dipped for 
a moment into a pan of hot water. Fresh water was 
put on to boil for the coffee, and then the hostess took 
the dinner plates, went to the table, and proceeded to 
serve this course, which was hot and fresh and much 
better than if it had all been prepared beforehand and 
kept hot during the soup course. 

In the same manner this course, when finished, was 
removed, and by this time everything was so informal 
that one of the gentlemen insisted upon replenishing 
the ice water, and otherwise assisting the young lady, 
thereby giving the hostess ample time to arrange the 
lettuce around the edge of the platter, cut the cucum- 
ber, which had been pared and quartered previously, 
into thin slices, dress it with salt, paprika, oil, and 
lemon, and turn it into the center, cover it with the 
whipped cream, putting the remainder into a fancy 
bowl. Then the boiling water was turned into the 



228 Home Science Cook Book. 

filter coffee pot and left on the edge of the range, 
the silver was removed from the plates into pitchers 
or pans of hot water, according to its size, the scraps 
on the plates were scraped off into the proper recepta- 
cle, the dishes piled in order, and by the time the 
friend was ready to take in the salad, the hostess with 
clean hands was ready to follow and serve it. 

After this course there was more for the friend to 
do, for butter plates and bread tray were removed, and 
the cake laid on, and this gave time for the dishing of 
the mousse, the second filtering of the coffee, and the 
same disposal of the soiled dishes. When cakes and 
cream had been disposed of, these dishes were re- 
moved, while the final heating of the coffee and turn- 
ing it into the hot pot for serving were being done in 
the kitchen. The plates with finger-bowls were laid 
on the table, the guests removing the bowl with the 
doily and placing them at the left; then, while the 
hostess was filling the cups which had been removed 
from the little table and placed in front of her, the 
friend passed the cheese and wafers; Roquefort and 
English Cheddar were served. Pimolas had nearly 
disappeared during the first courses, but almonds and 
confections were nibbled and coffee sipped, and after 
nearly two hours of fun and feasting, the company 
adjourned to the parlor. While they were getting 
settled into cozy corners and studying pictures, the 
hostess slipped back to the table, took care of the food, 
put the silver together, and closed the dining room 
and kitchen. After the last guest said good night, the 
two pairs of hands made quick work with the silver 
and the orderly piles of dishes, leaving the glasses 
until morning. 



I Menus for Every Day Life. 






229 



Menus for January. 23 1 



IRew Beat's Dinner. 

CELERY BLUE POINTS OLIVES 

BREAD STICKS CONSOMME SALTED ALMONDS 

FRIED SCALLOPS, SAUCE TARTARS 
POTATO PUFF ROAST DUCK PLUM JELLY 

CHESTNUT SALAD 

STEAMED PLUM PUDDING, FRUIT SAUCE 
FRUIT NUTS COFFEE 

SUNDAY. ffireafcfast. 

WHEATENA ORANGES MILK 

BROILED HAM BAKED POTATOES 

GRIDDLE CAKES COFFEE 

Huncbeon or Supper. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES 
COOKIES CANNED PEARS COCOA 

Dinner. 

TOMATO SOUP 

ROAST BEEF YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

CRANBERRY SAUCF ONIONS POTATOES 

WAFERS LETTUCE SALAD CHEESE 

APPLES MINCE PIE COFFEE WALNUTS 

MONDAY. ffireafcfast. 

BANANAS BAKED OR SAUTED 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH BACON TOAST LYONNAISE POTATOES 

COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper, 

BAKED POTATOES SALMI OF DUCK COLD SLAW 

BREAD TEA ORANGES 

Dinner. 

POTATO AND CELERY SOUP 
ROAST BEEF (second roasting or served cold) 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES STEAMED SQUASH 

APRICOT SHORT CAKE 



232 Menus for January. 

TUESDAY. ^reafcfast. 

BARLEY CRYSTALS CREAM 

PICKED UP CODFISH BAKED POTATOES 

WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS BAKED APPLES COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BAKED BEEF STEW (ROAST BEEF WITH TOMATO) 
BREAD STEWED PRUNES WAFERS 

Dinner. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 

BAKED FISH MASHED POTATOES 

STEWED TOMATOES CABBAGE SALAD 

WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING CREAMY SAUCE GRAPES 

WEDNESDAY. ffireafcfast. 

BOILED RICE AND V.F. "1 

SAUSAGE FRIED APPLES POTATO CAKES 

RYE MUFFINS COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Suppei, 

BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE 
ROLLS STEWED FIGS SPONGE DROPS 

COCOA 

Dinner. 

STEAMED FOWL WITH DUMPLINGS 

CREAMED CELERY POTATO MARBLES BANANA SALAD 

WAFERS NUTS COFFEE 

THURSDAY. JBreafcfast. 

LIVER AND BACON BROWNED POTATOES 

RICE GEMS ORANGES COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

MINCED CHICKEN ON TOAST 
CHEESE APPLE PIE 

Dinner. 

MOCKED TURTLE SOUP (CANNED) 

CREAMED OYSTERS (CHAFING-DISH) WAFERS 

THIN BREAD AND BUTTER POTATO SALAD 

COFFEE CREAM LADY FINGERS 

ORANGES NUTS RAISINS 



Menus for January. 233 

FRIDAY. JBreaftfaet. 

WHEATLET CREAM BAKED APPLES 

SALT FISH BALLS 
CORN CAKE COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BISQUE OF OYSTERS 

COFFEE ROLLS BANANA FRITTERS 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING COCOA 

Dinner. 

STEAMED HALIBUT, SHRIMP SAUCE 

POTATO CROQUETTES SPINACH 

APPLE, CELERY, AND NUT SALAD 

PEACH TAPIOCA PUDDING 

SATURDAY. Breakfast. 

BROILED HAM LYONNA1SE POTATOES 

RYE MUFFINS STEWED RAISINS COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

ROAST PORK (WARMED OVER) 
TOASTED MUFFINS BAKED APPLES 

Dinner. 

BROILED STEAK 
POTATO PUFF STEWED CELERY 

CABBAGE SALAD 
APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

ne Dag's /Reals for a CbfU>. 
JiSreaftfast. 

MILK TOAST APPLE JELLY 

GINGER COOKIES 

Dinner. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP 
MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Supper. 

DRY TOAST 
STEWED FIGS COCOA 



234 Menus for February. 

MONDAY. 35reafcfa6t. 

ORANGES FISH BALLS BROWN BREAD TOAST 

COFFEE DOUGHNUTS 

OLuncbeon or Supper. 

BAKED BEANS CABBAGE SALAD QUICK BISCUIT 

APPLE SAUCE 



Dinner. 

CREAM OF ONIONS 
ROAST DUCK, POTATO STUFFING 

STEWED CELERY OLIVES 



BROWNED SWEET POTATOES 
PLUM JELLY 



TUESDAY. 



FRIED LIVER AND BACON 



APPLE PIE 

JSreaftfast. 

CEREAL WITH CREAM 

BAKED POTATOES 

COFFEE 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CURRIED EGGS 
TOASTED BISCUIT GINGERBREAD 

Dinner. 

TOMATO SOUP 
POTATO BALLS BAKED FISH 

WAFERS LETTUCE AND ONION SALAD 

COFFEE 

WEDNESDAY. JSreafcfast. 

APPLE FARINA COFFEE 

BAKED POTATOES SAUSAGE 



RYE MUFFINS 



PRUNES 



CABBAGE AU GRATIN 
CHEESE 



COFFEE ROLLS 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

POP-OVERS SARDINES BAKED APPLES 

COCOA HERMITS 

Dinner. 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN 

MASHED POTATOES CANNED CORN CRANBERRY SAUCE 

COTTAGE PUDDING, LEMON SAUCE 



Menus for February. 



235 



THURSDAY. JSreafcfast. 

COFFEE 

POTATO CAKES BROILED STEAK 

GRAHAM MUFFINS STEWED RAISINS 



OLuncbeon or Supper. 

CREAM TOAST DRIED BEEF 



PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 



SPONGE CAKE 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 



FRIDAY. 



2>tnner. 

CORN SOUP 

ROLLS 
APPLE MERINGUE 

ffireafcfast. 

ORANGES 



CHICKEN SALAD 



CRACKED WHEAT 

DRY TOAST 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES 
SLICED ORANGES 



OMELET 



COFFEE 



QUICK BISCUIT 



BOILED POTATOES 



SATURDAY. 



FRIED MUSH 



Dinner. 

STEWED FISH 
TOMATO JELLY SALAD 
BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

JBreafcfast. 

COFFEE 

STEAK HASH 

STEWED PRUNES 



COOKIES 



BOILED ONIONS 



BACON 



luncbeon or Supper. 

CORN FRITTERS 
STEAMED RICE WITH CHEESE 



BAKED APPLES 



SCALLOPED FISH 



Dinner. 

SCOTCH BROTH 
MINCE PIE 



SALAD OP MIXED VEGETABLES 



236 

SUNDAY. 

BAKED BEANS 



Menus for February. 



JSreafcfast. 

COFFEE 
FRUIT 



BROWN BREAD 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

POTATO SALAD 
BREAD AND BUTTER TEA 



HERMITS 



TURNIPS 



CHEESE 



SMnner. 

CREAM OF PEAS 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON 

CURRANT JELLY 

LETTUCE SALAD 

BANANAS IN JELLY 

NUTS COFFEE RAISINS 



BROWNED POTATOES 



WAFERS 



TDalentfne Xuncbeon. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP (LOVE APPLES) 
FISH A LA CREME P1MOLAS 

RLLET OF BEEF BEARNAISE SAUCE 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS GREEN GRAPE JELLY 

ORANGE SHERBET 
LETTUCE CHEESE WAFERS 

PRUNE WHIP LADY-FINGERS 

SALTED ALMONDS BLACK COFFEE BONBONS 



Supper for TKHasbington's 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 
RAISED BISCUIT 

RED CABBAGE SALAD 
WASHINGTON PIE CHERRY ICE 



CORN BREAD 



Menus for March. 237 

MONDAY. 3Breafcfa0t. 

BARLEY CRYSTALS MILK 

WARMED-OVER FISH HOE CAKES 

BUTTERED EGGS COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CANNED MULLIGATAWNY SOUP 
BREAD STICKS HOT CRANBERRY SAUCE AND DUMPLINGS 

Dinner. 

POTATO SOUP CROUTONS 
FRICASSEE OF OYSTERS ON SHORT CAKES 

BANANA SALAD MAYONNAISE 
CUSTARD SOUFFLE CREAMY SAUCE 

TUESDAY. Breafcfast. 

SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUIT 

STEAMED DATES 
BAKED POTATOES COFFEE CREAMED CODFISH 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

TOAST SALMON SALAD COCOA SHELLS 

ORANGES COOKIES 

Dinner. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 
SQUASH ROAST PORK MASHED POTATOES 

CELERY SALAD 
DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

WEDNESDAY. ifiSreafcfast. 

CORN MEAL MUSH 

BAKED APPLES STUFFED WITH SAUSAGE 
RYE MUFFINS COFFEE FRIED POTATOES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

FRIED OYSTERS ROLLS PICKLES 

COFFEE SPICE CAKES 

Dinner. 

BROILED HADDOCK OLIVES 

POTATO PUFF NUT AND WATERCRESS SALAD LIMA BEANS 

SPONGE CAKE PEACHES (Canned) 



2 3 8 



Menus for March. 



THURSDAY. 



JBreaftfast. 

FRIED CORN-MUSH MAPLE SYRUP 

BAKED POTATOES CREAMED SALMON 

ORANGES DRY TOAST COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

EGGS POACHED IN TOMATOES 

TEA GINGERBREAD 



TOAST 



BROWNED POTATOES 



FRIDAY. 



Dinner, 

ROAST BEEF 

SPINACH 
CANNED PEACHES COFFEE ROLLS 

^Breakfast. 

PARCHED FARINOSE CREAM 

STEWED SEEDLESS RAISINS 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING 



PARSLEY OMELET 



CORN CAKE 



BUNS 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CREAM OF LOBSTER CROUTONS 

APPLE AND NUT SALAD 



COFFEE 



COCOA 



MASHED POTATO 



SATURDAY. 

OATMEAL 



SMnner. 

BAKED FISH, STUFFED HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

BUTTERED PARSNIPS 



BREAD 



CHEESE 



BAKED RICE PUDDING 

^reafcfast. 

CREAM 

SCALLOPED FISH RICE MUFFINS 

ORANGES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

EGGS IN BASKETS 
BANANAS IN POP-OVER CRUSTS 

Dinner. 

CLAM CHOWDER 
COLD ROAST BEEF MASHED POTATO 

LETTUCE SALAD 
CABINET PUDDING 



COFFEE 



CHOCOLATE 



WAFERS 



Menus for March. 
SUNDAY. JBreafcfast. 

GRAPE FRUIT 

FISH BALLS WITH EGG GARNISH 
HOT BROWN BREAD 



239 



COFFEE 



ILuncbeon or Supper. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES, WITH MAYONNAISE 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES 

ANGEL CAKE 



Dinner. 

BOUILLON 

FILLETS OF FISH OYSTER SAUCE 
POTATO CROQUETTES STRING BEANS 

MACEDO1NE SALAD 
COFFEE ICE CREAM SWEET WAFERS 



WAFERS 



Xate Supper on Gbaftn0*&tsb. 

CREAMED OYSTERS or WELSH RABBIT 

ROLLS 
CANNED PEACHES 



SPONGE CAKE 



ROLLS 



lenten Xuncbeon. 

HORS D'OEUVRES IN LEMON CUPS 

BA&D FILLETS OF HALIBUT CUCUMBERS 

TIMBALES OF SPINACH, HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

ORANGE FRAPPE 

LOBSTER SALAD MAYONNAISE 

CHERRY CHARLOTTE 
ANGEL AND SUNSHINE CAKE COFFEE 



240 

MONDAY. 



Menus for April. 
38reahfa0t. 

SHREDDED WHEAT TOAST 



BACON BAKED EGGS 

COFFEE STEAMED DATES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BAKED POTATOES LYONNAISE TRIPE SWEET PICKLE PEARS 

BREAD PUDDING or CAKE 

2>fnner. 

JULIENNE SOUP 

MASHED POTATO BEEFSTEAK PARSNIPS 

SNOW PUDDING 

WAFERS 



TUESDAY. 



BARLEY CRYSTALS 



BROWN BREAD TOAST 



MASHED POTATOES 



WEDNESDAY. 



QUAKER OATS 



ROLLS 



POTATO CROQUETTES 



JBreafcfast. 

BANANAS 
GRAHAM MUFFINS 
BEEFSTEAK HASH 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BAKED BEAN SOUP 
GINGER SNAPS 

Dinner. 

CREAM OF PARSNIPS 

ROAST VEAL 

WATERCRESS AND RADISH SALAD 
CABINET PUDDING 

JBreaftfast. 

ORANGES 

SALT FISH HASH 

DOUGHNUTS COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

EGG SALAD 
STEWED DRIED APRICOTS 

2>inner. 

LENTIL SOUP 

BROILED SHAD 

STEAMED FIG PUDDING 



COFFEE 



STEWED SEEDLESS RAISINS 



CANNED PEAS 



HOE CAKE 



COCOA 



BOILED ONIONS 



Menus for April. 241 

THURSDAY. JBreafctast 

CEREAL COFFEE 

BACON BROWN BREAD 

EGGS EN COQUILLE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

MACARONI BAKED WITH OYSTERS 
CANNED BLUEBERRY PIE COCOA 

Dinner. 

BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

DANDELION GREENS 
WAFERS LEMON PUDDING 



FRIDAY. 

FRIED WHEATLET MAPLE SYRUP 

BROILED OYSTERS FRIED BANANAS 

COFFEE TOAST 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CURRY OF MEAT MUSH BALLS 
WARM GINGERBREAD COCOA 

Dinner. 

OYSTER BISQUE 

RED CABBAGE STUFFED BAKED SHAD POTATOES 

CREAMY RICE PUDDING 

SATURDAY. JBreafcfast. 

COFFEE ORANGES 

WHOLE WHEAT SHORT CAKES 
BROILED SHAD ROE BROWNED POTATOES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

SCALLOPED SHAD CABBAGE SALAD 

ROLLS COOKIES COCOA 

Dinner. 

RICE TIMBALES BOILED CHICKEN SPINACH 

LETTUCE SALAD WAFERS 

COTTAGE PUDDING, FRUIT SAUCE 

NUTS RAISINS 




Menus for April. 



ffireafctaat. 



BAKED BEANS CHOW CHOW 

HOT BROWN BREAD COFFEE 

GRAPE FRUIT 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICHES 
GINGER SNAPS STEWED SEEDLESS RAISINS 



SMnner. 

OYSTER SOUP 

CREAMED CHICKEN WITH RICE CANNED PEAS 

SPINACH SALAD WITH EGG GARNISH 

BROWN BREAD 

PRUNE PUDDING, WHIPPED CREAM 
COFFEE WAFERS CHEESE 



faster Xuncbeon. 

GRAPE FRUIT 

tOBSTER EN COQUILLE 

CREAMED ASPARAGUS IN CRUSTS 

BROILED SHAD WITH POTATO MATCHES 

EDAM CHEESE LETTUCE SALAD WAFERS 

LEMON GINGER SHERBET 
WHITE CAKE COFFEE ALMONDS 



Menus for May. 



243 



MONDAY. 



COFFEE 



WAFERS 



JBreafcfast. 

BROWN BREAD, STEAMED WITH HOT CREAM 
SCRAMBLED EGGS 
PRUNES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

RICE SURPRISE 

COCOA GINGERBREAD 

H>inner. 

VEAL POT PIE, WITH DUMPLINGS 

BANANA AND NUT SALAD 

BAKED CUSTARD 



TUESDAY. 



STEWED APRICOTS 



BAKED POTATOES 



JBreafcfast 

OATMEAL 

MUTTON CHOPS 

QUICK BISCUIT 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

VEAL ON TOAST 
MARBLE CAKE COCOA 

2>inner. 

PARSNIP PUREE 

DANDELION GREENS ROAST BEEF POTATOES 

BANANAS AND SLICED ORANGES 

JBreafcfast. 

ORANGES 

FRIED CEREAL BOILED EGGS BACON 

TOAST 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 



WEDNESDAY. 



COFFEE 



FRENCH TOAST WITH APRICOT SAUCE 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

SAND TARTS 

Dinner. 

ONION SOUP 

ROAST BEEF (Second Heating) 

MASHED POTATOES BROWNED PARSNIPS 

SAGO PUDDING 



244 Menus for May. 



THURSDAY. Ereafcfast. 

COFFEE ORANGES FARINA 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST 

OMELET 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BEEF STEW FROM ROAST 
BUNS STEWED PRUNES 

Dinner. 

BOUILLON 

CREAMED LOBSTER 

ROLLS OLIVES RADISHES 

LETTUCE SALAD 
COFFEE JELLY WITH CREAM 

FRIDAY. Sreafcfast. 

COFFEE FISH CAKES WITH EGGS CORN CAKE 

BAKED BANANAS 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CREAM OF TOMATO 
ROLLS SPAGHETTI WITH CHEESE HERMITS 

Dinner. 

POTATO SOUP 
BROILED SHAD 

POTATO BALLS WITH PARSLEY SPINACH WITH EGG GARNISH 

RHUBARB TART 

SATURDAY. JBreafcfast. 

COFFEE BOILED RICE 

ENTIRE WHEAT MUFFINS BROILED HAM FRIED POTATOES 

ORANGES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CREAMED ASPARAGUS 
DRY TOAST BAKED RHUBARB SAUCE WAFERS 

Dinner. 

CORN SOUP 

MUTTON CHOPS CANNED STRING BEANS 

RICE CROQUETTES 

LEMON PIE 



Menus for May. 245 

SUNDAY. JBrealifast. 

COFFEE CEREAL 

FRENCH TOAST BACON 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

HAM SANDWICHES SPONGE DROPS 
PEACHES 

Dinner. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 
BAKED HAM BROWNED PARSNIPS 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

SALAD OF LETTUCE, PEAS, AND NUTS 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

flfcaB 5>a Xuncbeon (Wbfte an& (SolD). 

GRAPE FRUIT 

VEAL SOUP WITH GOLD FLAKES 
CUCUMBERS FILLETS OF BASS A LA HOLLANDAISE POTATOES 

ORANGE SHERBET 
SWEETBREADS SAUTED A LA BECHAMEL 

PEAS 

BANANA SALAD MAYONNAISE 

NEUFCHATEL WAFERS 

VANILLA ICE-CREAM. 

COFFEE 
CONFECTIONS 

Gbaffng 5>isb Xuncbeon. 

CREAM OF TOMATO 
OLIVES BREAD STICKS 

LOBSTER A LA CREME 

CUCUMBERS SHORT BISCUITS 

CALF'S BRAINS A LA TARTARS 

RICE FRITTERS 

WAFERS LETTUCE SALAD NEUFCHATEL 

STRAWBERRY CANAPES 

COFFEE 



246 Menus for June. 

MONDAY. :JBreafcfast. 



COFFEE 

FRIZZLED BEEF POP-OVERS 

STEWED PRUNES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BROWN BREAD TOAST STRAWBERRY SALAD 

COOKIES BOILED CUSTARD TEA 

Dinner. 

BREADED LAMB CHOPS (Baked) 

MASHED POTATOES CUCUMBERS 

RHUBARB SHORTCAKE 

TUESDAY. ffireafcfast. 

COFFEE RYE MUFFINS 
FRIED BUTTERFISH FRIED POTATOES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

HULLED CORN STEWED GOOSEBERRIES 

WAFERS COCOA 

SXnner. 

TOMATO SOUP 

VEAL PIE ASPARAGUS SALAD 

LEMON MILK SHERBET 

WAFERS 

WEDNESDAY. JSreafcfast. 

BOILED RICE WITH MILK 

GRAHAM GEMS CREAMED EGGS 

COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE CUP CUSTARD 

ICED TEA 

SMnner. 

ROAST LAMB MINT SAUCE 
POTATOES SPINACH 

LETTUCE SALAD 

WAFERS CHERRIES 



Menus for June. 247 

THURSDAY. ffireafcfast. 

COFFEE STRAWBERRIES 

POTATO CAKES BROILED MACKEREL SCALDED CORN CAKES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

TEA TURKISH PILAU TOAST 

BAKED RHUBARB SAUCE COOKIES 

Dinner. 

CHERRY SOUP COLD BOILED TONGUE 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST 

LETTUCE AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

WAFERS COFFEE 

FRIDAY. ffireafefaat. 

SHREDDED WHEAT 

BREAD BACON, WITH CALF'S LIVER COFFEE 

CHERRIES 

%uncbeon or Supper. 

CREAM TOAST SPONGE CAKE APPLE JELLY 

CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE 

Dinner. 

BOILED SALMON 

POTATOES CUCUMBERS PEAS 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

SATURDAY. JSreafcfast. 

WHEATLET WITH DATES 

BISCUIT CREAMED SALMON COFFEE 

STEWED GOOSEBERRIES 

Zuncbeon or Supper. 

POTATO SALAD NUT SANDWICHES 

HARD GINGERBREAD COTTAGE CHEESE 

Dinner. 

POTATOES ROAST VEAL GREENS 

SCALUON SALAD 
BANANAS WITH CHERRY SAUCE WAFERS 




Menus for June. 
JKreafcfa0t. 

ORANGES 
VEAL KIDNEYS SAUTED 

BROWN BREAD ,____ 

v-Urrcc 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

COLD VEAL 
ROLLED SANDWICHES STRAWBERRY CAKE 

SMnner. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS, CROUTONS 

LOBSTER SALAD BROWN BREAD BARS 

DEEP CHERRY PIE 

COFFEE 
SALTED PECANS P1M-OLAS 



Xuncbeon. 

GRAPE FRUIT 

CREAMED LOBSTER ROLLS 

OLIVES SALTED ALMONDS RADISHES 

SWEETBREADS BREADED PEAS 

CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD 

STRAWBERRY MOUSSE 

SPONGE DROPS MACAROONS 

COFFEE 



ffireafttast. 

BOUILLON 

COLD SALMON, SAUCE TARTARE 
TIMBALES OF SWEETBREADS AND MUSHROOMS 

CHAUDFROID OF CHICKEN 

FRUIT SHERBET HARLEQUIN CREAM 

CAKES COFFEE 



MONDAY. 



OMELET 



Menus for July. 
JSreafcfaat. 

BAKED BANANAS 
RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 



249 



COFFEE 



RADISHES 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 
RASPBERRIES CAKE 

Dinner. 

CREAM OF PEAS 

SALMON CROQUETTES SALTED ALMONDS 

POTATO PUFF STEWED CUCUMBERS 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 



TUESDAY. 3Breafcfast. 

COFFEE 

BROILED LIVER WITH BACON WHOLE WHEAT GEMS 

CHERRIES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

COLD HAM 
POP-OVERS MILK SHERBET 



WAFERS 



Dinner. 

TOMATO SOUP 
BROILED MACKEREL 

LETTUCE AND CUCUMBER SALAD 
HUCKLEBERRY PIE 



POTATOES 



WEDNESDAY. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 



JSreafefast. 

COFFEE 
STEWED GOOSEBERRIES 



CREAMED EGGS 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

SALMON SALAD 
RASPBERRY SHORTCAKE 



COTTAGE CHEESE 



POTATOES 



Dinner. 

BROILED STEAK 

LETTUCE SALAD 

BANANAS WITH MASHED CURRANTS 



SUMMER SQUASH 



2 S Menus for July. 

THURSDAY. JBreaftfast. 

COFFEE 

BARLEY CRYSTALS PAN FISH, FRIED POTATO CAKES 

TOAST 

fcuncbeon or Supper, 

MINCED MEAT ON TOAST 
CURRANTS COOKIES 

Dinner, 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE VEAL CUTLETS RADISHES 

LETTUCE SALAD 
APRICOT ICE CREAM, OR APRICOT CHARLOTTE 

FRIDAY, tfreafcfast 

COFFEE SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUIT WITH MILK STRAWBERRIES 

OMELET 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CHEESE FONDU MUFFINS 



BANANA SAL 


AD 


WAFERS 




Dinner. 




POTATOES 


BROILED BLUEFISH 


BOILED BEETS 




LETTUCE SALAD 






BAKED CUSTARD 




SATURDAY. 


JSreaftfast. 






COFFEE 




BOILED RICE, MILK 


PICKED-UP FISH 


LYONNAISE POTATOES 




TOAST 





Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CURRIED EGGS 
GINGERBREAD STEWED GOO SEBERRiES 

Dinner. 

LAMB STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 
SALAD OF CUCUMBERS, RADISHES, SCALUONS 

WAFERS 
STEAMED CHERRY PUDDING 



Menus for July. 251 

SUNDAY. aBreafefast. 

MOLDED WHEATLET WITH RASPBERRIES 

COFFEE POACHED EGGS 

TOAST BACON 

%uncbeon or Supper. 

POTATO SALAD 
ROLLS BLUEBERRIES COOKIES 

Dinner. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP 

POTATOES BOILED SALMON CUCUMBERS 

LAMB CHOPS PEAS 

CURRANT ICE CREAM SPONGE CAKE 



ffourtb of 5ulg Xuncbeon. 

SALPICON OF FRUIT IN LEMON CUPS 

ROLLED FILLETS OF BASS OR FLOUNDER 

FRIED POTATOES STEWED CUCUMBERS 

CHERRY FRAPPE 
LAMB CHOPS FRESH MUSHROOMS SAUTED 

STRAWBERRY AND BANANA SALAD 

FROZEN PUDDING WITH STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

ANGEL CAKE COFFEE 



ffor tbe picnic JBasfcet. 

MEAT LOAF POTATO SALAD 

SANDWICHES OF WHOLE WHEAT BREAD WITH CREAM CHEESE 

HERMITS OATMEAL MACAROONS 

COFFEE FRUIT PUNCH 



252 



MONDAY. 



POP-OVERS 



Menus for August. 
JBreafcfast. 

SHREDDED WHEAT 

BACON TOMATO OMELET 

MUFFINS 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BROILED SALT CODFISH 

BLUEBERRIES AND MILK 

COTTAGE CHEESE 



WAFERS 



POTATOES 



Dinner. 

FRICASSEE OF LAMB FRIED SUMMER SQUASH 

LETTUCE, ONION, AND CUCUMBER SALAD 
BLUEBERRY PUDDING 



TUESDAY. 



^Breakfast. 



BROILED BLUEFISH LYONNAISE POTATOES 
GRAHAM GEMS COFFEE CURRANTS 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

MINCED LAMB ON TOAST GREEN PEAS 

TOAST ICED TEA COOKIES 

Dinner. 

POTATOES BRAISED BEEF BUTTERED BEETS 

TOMATO SALAD PEACH SHORTCAKE 



WEDNESDAY. 



BISCUIT 



ROLLS 



POTATOES 



ffireafcfast 

MELON 
WARMED-OVER BEEF 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

LOBSTER SALAD 
WAFERS 

Dinner. 

TOMATO SOUP 

FRIED SWORDFISH 

BLUEBERRY CHARLOTTE 



COFFEE 



CURRANTS 



CUCUMBERS 



Menus for August. 253 

THURSDAY. ;reafcfa0t. 

RICE AND MILK 
TOAST POACHED EGGS COFFEE 

Xuncbcon or Supper. 

COLD BEEF POTATO SALAD 

BREAD TEA 

Dinner. 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

BOILED TONGUE SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

POTATOES STRING BEANS 

WATERMELON 

FRIDAY. JSreafcfast. 

BROILED MACKEREL FRIED POTATOES 

ROLLS COFFEE BERRIES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CORN FRITTERS SLICED TOMATOES 

GINGERBREAD ICED TEA 

Dinner. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

CUCUMBERS COLD TONGUE BAKED POTATOES 

BLUEBERRY PIE CHEESE 

SATURDAY. JBreafcfast. 

CANTELOPE 
WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS CLAM FRITTERS COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

RICE GEMS HERRING CORN ON THE COB 

TOMATO SALAD 

Dinner. 

SUCCOTASH BROILED LAMB CHOPS POTATOES 

MACEDOINE SALAD 
SLICED PEACHES ROLLS 



254 Menus for August. 

SUNDAY. JSreafcfast. 

CEREAL 

OMELET BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

COFFEE 



BACON 



3Luncbeon or Supper. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES 
SPONGE DROPS 



PLUMS 



POTATOES 

PEACH SHERBET 



2>inner. 

SWEET CORN SOUP 
ROAST LOIN OF LAMB 

CORN 

WATERMELON SALAD 
WAFERS 



STUFFED TOMATOES 
COFFEE 



2ln Bucwst Xuncbeon. 

LITTLE NECK CLAMS 
CUCUMBERS BROILED SALMON NEW POTATOES 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 
VEAL CUTLETS SPINACH WITH EGG 

TOMATO SALAD 

FRUIT ICE CREAM WAFERS 

WHITE CAKE 

COFFEE 



OLIVES 



LADY-FINGERS 



jflBcnu for picnica. 

SCOTCH EGGS 

SALMON SANDWICHES 

FRUIT 



LEMONADE 



CUCUMBERS 



CREAM CHEESE 



COFFEE 



MONDAY. 



OMELET 



Menus for September. 



JBreafcfast. 

BOILED RICE 
COFFEE 



TOAST 



PEARS 



2 S5 



BACON 



Xuncbeon or Supper, 

MINCED LAMB WITH POTATO CRUST 
BISCUIT TEA BLACKBERRIES 



POTATOES 



Dinner. 

BROILED STEAK 

STEWED TOMATOES 

WATERMELON 



CORN ON THE COB 



TUESDAY. 



RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 



JBreaftfast. 

MELON 
HASH 
COFFEE 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BREAD AND BUTTER CREAMED TONGUE 
TEA 



LIMA BEANS 



IDinner. 

BOILED HAM (Hot) 
CUCUMBER SALAD 
GREEN APPLE PIE 



BROWN BREAD 



BAKED PEARS 



CAULIFLOWER 



WEDNESDAY. 



GRAHAM BREAD 



ROLLS 



POTATOES 



JBreahfast. 

SHREDDED WHEAT 

COFFEE 
FRIED PERCH 



FRIED POTATOES 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CORN FRITTERS APPLE SAUCE 

COCOA NUT CAKES 



SHnner. 

PAN-BROILED CHICKEN 

TOMATO SALAD 
COMPOTE OF PEACHES WITH RICE 



WAX BEANS 



256 Menus for September. 

THURSDAY. Sreafcfagt. 

MELON WHEATLET 

TOAST COLD HAM CORN FRITTERS 

COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

POTATO AND BEET SALAD CHICKEN LIVERS WITH BACON 
CHOCOLATE CAKE ROLLS 

Dinner. 

BAKED POTATOES CALF'S LIVER AND BACON BUTTERED BEETS 

CREAMED ONIONS 
STEAMED COFFEE CUSTARD 

FRIDAY. Sreafcfast. 

COFFEE 

CREAMED CODFISH 
RYE SHORTCAKE TOAST BLACKBERRIES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

SCOTCH EGGS STEWED GREEN CORN 

SLICED PEACHES HERMITS 

Dinner. 

POTATO BALLS BAKED BLUEFISH CUCUMBERS 

SUMMER SQUASH 

WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING -CREAM SAUCE 
MELON 

SATURDAY. JBreafcfast. 

COFFEE 
BROILED TOMATOES SCALLOPED FISH BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

LAMB BROTH WITH RICE 
BREAD STICKS PEACH SHORTCAKE COTTAGE CHEESE 

Dinner. 

POTATOES BONED LEG OF LAMB, STUFFED STRING BEANS 

PLUM TART (Deep, with one crust) 



Menus for September. 257 

SUNDAY. JSreafcfast 

COFFEE 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD CODFISH CAKES 

PICKLED PEACHES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CRACKERS 
BLUEBERRIES AND MILK GINGER SNAPS 

2>inner. 

SHELLED BEAN PUREE 
LYONNAISE POTATOES COLD LAMB MARROW SQUASH 

SALAD OF STRING BEANS AND CARROTS 
PEACH ICE CREAM SPONGE CAKE 



GbUDren's 

CREAMED CHICKEN IN ROLLS OR BREAD BOXES 

SWEET SANDWICHES PEACH MERINGUE FANCY CAKES 

LEMONADE 



Bn Butumn S>fnner. 

RAW OYSTERS 
CREAM OF CORN 

BROILED PARTRIDGES ON FRIED MUSH 

STUFFED EGG PLANT SWEET POTATOES 

TOMATO AND CELERY SALAD 

MARLBORO PIE 



258 Menus for October. 



MONDAY. 3Breafcfast. 

COFFEE 

SHREDDED WHEAT WITH CREAMED EGGS 
BAKED APPLES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BOILED HOMINY AND MILK CORNED BEEF SALAD 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY 

Dinner. 

SWEET POTATOES SALISBURY STEAK STEWED TOMATOES 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER 
CARAMEL CUSTARD GRAPES 

TUESDAY. 3Breafcfast. 

WHEATLET AND MILK COFFEE 

BROILED HAM HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

STEWED PEARS 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

SWEET POTATO ROLLS COCOA 

HARD GINGERBREAD CANNED RASPBERRIES 

Dinner. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON CAPER SAUCE 

BOILED RICE MASHED TURNIPS 

DEEP APPLE PIE 

WEDNESDAY. JBreaftfast. 

RICE FRITTERS 

BOILED EGGS MINCED MEAT ON TOAST 

COFFEE GRAPES 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

LAMB BROTH WAFERS 
TEA MUFFINS CUP CUSTARDS 

Dinner. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

SIEVA BEANS MUTTON CURRY SWEET POTATOES 

GRAPES PEARS 



Menus for October. 259 

THURSDAY. Srcafcfast. 

WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS FISH BALLS COFFEE 

PEARS 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 
BREAD PICKLES SPONGE CAKE 

Dinner. 

MASHED POTATOES PAN-BROILED CHICKEN SQUASH 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

FRIDAY. JBreafcfast. 

GRAPES 

SMOKED HALIBUT BAKED POTATOES 

RYE MUFFINS COFFEE 

ILuncbeon or Supper. 

SWEET CORN OYSTERS 
WHOLE WHEAT BREAD HERMITS BAKED PEARS 

Dinner. 

CREAM OF CLAMS 
POTATO BALLS HADDOCK A LA RABBIT CREAMED CARROTS 

COLD SLAW 
STEAMED APPLE PUDDING 

SATURDAY. :reafcfast. 

COFFEE 

OATMEAL AND MILK EGGS BAKED ON TOAST 

BAKED QUINCES 

ILuncbeon or Supper. 

BAKED LIMA BEANS 
BAKING POWDER BISCUIT SWEET PICKLED PEACHES COOKIES 

Dinner. 

NEW ENGLAND BOILED DINNER 

CORNED BEEF POTATOES CABBAGE 

TURNIPS BEETS 

SQUASH PIE 



260 Menus for October. 

SUNDAY. ;iBreafcfast. 

GRAPES 
COFFEE VEGETABLE HASH 

SLICED TOMATO PICKLE 



BROWN BREAD 



WAFERS 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 



WELSH RABBIT 
PRESERVED GINGER 



TAPIOCA CREAM 



COLD CORNED BEEF 



Dinner. 

LIMA BEAN SOUP 



BAKED SWEET POTATOES 



CUCUMBER AND TOMATO MAYONNAISE 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

PEARS 



ROASTED APPLES 



flfoenu for Iballowe'en 

POTATOES BAKED IN ASHES 

BROILED SALT HERRING 

OATMEAL BANNOCK BAKED ON GRIDDLE 

CHARM PIE 

TEA 
NUTS CANDY 



LUCKY BAG CAKE 



PIMOLAS 



Gbafing^oteb Supper (Slate) 

SARDINES, TARTARE SAUCE 

CHICKEN TIMBALES, MUSHROOM SAUCE 

DEVILED ALMONDS 

CONFECTIONS 



WAFERS 



Menus for November. 261 

MONDAY. JBreafcfast. 

CEREAL, WITH STEWED RAISINS 

FRIED PORK CHOPS, WITH FRIED APPLES 

BROWN BREAD TOAST COFFEE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BAKED BEANS POTATO SALAD 

GINGER SNAPS 

Dinner. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP (Canned) 

CAULIFLOWER BOILED HAM MASHED POTATOES 

CRANBERRY SAUCE APPLE SNOW 

TUESDAY. JBreafcfast. 

COFFEE SPANISH OMELET CREAM TOAST 

BAKED BANANAS 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BREAD CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN COLD HAM 

SWEET PICKLED QUINCES INDIAN PUDDING 

2>inner. 

CREAM OF CELERY 
BEEFSTEAK WITH BEARNAISE SAUCE 

POTATO CRESCENTS SCALLOPED ONIONS 

TAPIOCA PUDDING APPLE JELLY 

WEDNESDAY. 56reaftfa0t. 

COFFEE CEREAL 

LYONNAISE POTATOES HAMBURG STEAK MUFFINS 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

SALMON (Canned) CROQUETTES PEAS 

STEWED FIGS ROLLS SPONGE CAKE 

SMnner. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER OYSTERS EN COQUILLE 

STEAMED RICE ROAST LEG OF MUTTON, STUFFED BUTTERED TURNIPS 

APPLES PEARS CHEESE COFFEE 



262 



Menus for November. 



THURSDAY. ffireafctast 

ROLLS BAKED APPLES COFFEE 

COLD MUTTON CREAMED POTATOES 

SLuncbeon or Supper. 

TURNIP SOUP 
GRAHAM GEMS TURKISH PILAU SQUASH PIE 

Dinner* 

MUTTON BROTH, WITH RICE 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES CREAMED HAM LIMA BEANS 

STEAMED SUET PUDDING 



FRIDAY. 



ROLLS 



OMELET 
BAKED PEARS 



COFFEE 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

FRIED SCALLOPS TARTARE OR BEARNAISE SAUCE 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD SUET PUDDING 

Dinner. 

FISH CHOWDER 



LETTUCE SALAD 



SCOTCH EGGS 



WAFERS 



COFFEE 



SATURDAY. 

CORN CAKE 

FRIED POTATOES 



GRAPES 

JBreafcfast. 

GRAPES 
ROLLED OATS 
FISH SCALLOP 



CREAM 



COFFEE 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

MUTTON RECHAUFFE BAKED POTATOES 

GINGERBREAD FRUIT 

Dinner. 

RAW OYSTERS 

BROWN FRICASSEE OF PARTRIDGE 

MASHED POTATOES SQUASH CELERY SALAD ESCALLOPED TOMATOES 
PRUNE PUDDING 



Menus for November. 263 

SUNDAY. JSreafcfast. 

FRIED CHICKEN, WITH CREAM GRAVY 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT COFFEE 

BANANAS 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

POP-CORN AND MILK 
GINGER SNAPS 

Dinner. 

STEWED OYSTERS 
BROWN BREAD BAKED BEANS BAKED POTATOES 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 
APPLES NUTS RAISINS 



3Breafcfast. 

CEREAL WITH BAKED APPLES 

FRIED CHICKEN BAKED POTATOES 

RYE MUFFINS DOUGHNUTS BROWN BREAD 

COFFEE 

Dinner. 

CREAM OF CELERY 
ROAST TURKEY, CHESTNUT STUFFING GIBLET GRAVY 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS JELLIED CRANBERRIES 
MASHED POTATOES SQUASH CREAMED ONIONS 

CHICKEN PIE 
OLIVES SALTED PECANS CELERY 

GRAPE FRUIT SHERBET 
MINCE PIE PUMPKIN PIE 

PLUM PUDDING 

FRUIT NUTS 

COFFEE 

Xate Supper. 

SANDWICHES OF COLD ROAST TURKEY 

HARD GINGERBREAD COTTAGE CHEESE 

SHELLBARKS POP-CORN MOLASSES CANDY 

CIDER 



264 

MONDAY. 



BOILED EGGS 



BREAD 



TUESDAY. 



BAKED BEANS 



Menus for December. 
JBreafcfast. 

COFFEE 
BOILED RICE AND MILK BROWN BREAD 

Xuncbcon or Supper. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

STEWED FRUIT PLAIN CAKE 

Dinner. 

CHICKEN PILAU 

CELERY AND APPLE SALAD 

FRUIT SOUFFLE 

33reafcfa8t. 

COFFEE 
STEWED APPLES 



CORN CAKE 



HERMITS 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CEREAL WITH MILK 
PEANUT SANDWICHES 

Dinner. 

ROAST BEEF 
POTATOES BAKED WITH BEEF YORKSHIRE PUDDING 



STEAMED SQUASH 



WEDNESDAY. 



GRAHAM GEMS 



LETTUCE SALAD 
APPLE TAPIOCA 

JBreaftfaet. 

COFFEE 

OMELET 

STEWED RAISINS 



WAFERS 



BACON 



Xuncbeon or Supper. 

CREAM TOAST 
CANNED PEACHES SPONGE CAKE 

Dinner. 

ROAST BEEF (Second serving) 



POTATOES AU GRATIN 



STEWED CELERY 
APPLE SNOWBALLS 



BOILED ONIONS 



Menus for December. 



265 



THURSDAY. 

TOAST FRIED OYSTERS COFFEE 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS STEWED APPLE SAUCE 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

HASTY PUDDING AND MILK 
GINGERBREAD 

Dinner. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 

CABBAGE SALAD BAKED FISH MASHED POTATO 

SWEET RICE CROQUETTES 



FRIDAY. 



COFFEE 



TOASTED CRACKERS 



BAKED BANANAS 
CREAMED CODFISH 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BEAN SOUP 
COFFEE JUNKET 

Dinner. 



FRIED MUSH 



SPONGE DROPS 



HALIBUT BAKED WITH MILK 

BOILED POTATOES CREAMED CARROTS 

APPLE FRITTERS SQUASH PIE 



SATURDAY. 



COFFEE 



BROWN BREAD 



JBreaftfast. 

QUAKER OATS 
SPICED BEEF 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

BAKED BEANS 
CHOW-CHOW 



ROLLS 



GINGER SNAPS 



Dinner. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

MINCE PIE 



266 Menus for December. 

SUNDAY. JBreafcfast. 

CREAMED HALIBUT ON SHREDDED WHEAT 
COFFEE FRUIT 

Xuncbeon or Supper. 

SPICED BEEF SANDWICHES 
BAKED APPLES AND CREAM 

Dinner. 

WHITE SOUP FROM FOWL 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

POTATO BALLS CELERY SALAD CANNED PEAS 

NUTS COFFEE JELLY WITH CREAM RAISINS 

Dinner /iftenus tor Gbrtetma0*TTU>e. 
I. 

CONSOMME A LA ROYALE 

HALIBUT TURBANS 
POTATO PUFF ROAST GOOSE APPLE SAUCE BAKED SQUASH 

PLUM PUDDING 

ORANGE SHERBET WAFERS 

COFFEE FRUITS 

II. 

CLEAR SOUP 

BOILED TURKEY, OYSTER SAUCE 

POTATO CROQUETTES CRANBERRY JELLY 

SWEET POTATOES ROAST BEEF WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING CREAMED ONIONS 

PLUM PUDDING 

SQUASH PIE MINCE PIE 

FRUIT SALTED ALMONDS 

COFFEE 

HI. 

RAW OYSTERS 
CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

CAULIFLOWER ROAST PIG MASHED POTATOES 

APPLE SAUCE LETTUCE OR CHICORY SALAD OLIVES 

CHEESE MINCE PIE CRANBERRY TART WAFERS 

RAISINS NUTS SWEETMEATS 

COFFEE 



Index. 



Index. 



Allemand Sauce, 66. 
Almonds, Salted, 216. 
Angel Cake, 198. 
Apple Croquettes, 98. 

Dumplings, 37. 

Farina, 19. 

Fritters, 91. 

Pie, 177. 

Pudding, 169. 
Steamed, 175. 

Salad, Nut, and Celery, 103. 
and Onion, 104. 

Sauce, 8. 
Baked, 9. 

Tea Cake, Dutch, 175. 
Apples, Baked, 7. 

Baked with Butter, 8. 

Compote of, 8. 

Fried, 9. 

Jellied, 8. 

Stuffed, 7. 
Apricot Pudding, 164. 

Sirup, 10. 

Sponge, 184. 
Apricots, 9. 

Dried, 9. 
Artichokes, 146. 
Asparagus, 147. 

Omelet, 52. 

Salad, 103. 

Sauce, 66. 

Soup, Cream of, 77 

Bacon, 139. 

Omelet, 53. 
Banana Salad, 104. 
Bananas, Baked, 10. 

Fried, 10. 

Barley a la Strassburg, 19. 
Batter Bread, 39. 



Batter, Fritter, 91. 
Bean Croquettes, 95. 

Soup, Baked, 78. 

Black, 78. 
Beans, Baked, 147. 

Shell, 149. 

String, 149. 

Spanish, 148. 

Stewed, 148. 
Bearnaise Sauce, 70. 
Bechamel Sauce, 66. 
Beef, Braised, 126. 

Corned, 129. 

Cutlets, 128. 

Larded Fillet of, 126. 

Pot Roast, 126. 

Pressed, 128. 

Roast, 126. 

Roasts, Thin, 127. 

Smothered, 129. 

Steak, Broiled, 127. 
Peppers, Broiled with, 157. 

Steaks, Thick, 127. 

Hamburg, 128. 
Beet Greens, 149. 

Salad, 104. 
Beets, 149. 
Berries, Preparation, 4. 

Washing, 3. 
Berry Charlotte, 170. 

Pie, 178. 
Biscuit, 35. 

Oatmeal, 29. 
Black Bean Soup, 78. 
Blackberries, 10. 
Blanc Mange, 164. 
Blueberries, 10. 
Blueberry Muffins, 35. 
Bouillon, 74. 

Quick, 75. 



269 



270 



Index. 



Brambles, 180. 
Bread, 23. 

Batter, 39. 

Brown, 38. 

Egg, 39- 

Entire Wheat, 29. 
with White Sponge, 29. 

German Coffee, 32. 

Oatmeal, 29. 

Omelet, 53. 

One Loaf, 28. 

Quick, 30. 

Sauce, 68. 

Southern Corn, 39. 

Spoon, 39. 

Steamed, 43. 

Sticks, 30. 
Fried, 33. 

Water, with Dry Yeast, 28. 

Yeast Doughs, 23. 
Bread and Butter Pudding, 170. 
Breakfast, i. 
Brewis, 44. 
Brown Bread, 38. 

Butter, 68. 

Sauce, 66. 

Brussels Sprouts, 150. 
Buns, 31. 

Cabbage, 149. 

German, 150. 

Salad, 104. 

Scalloped, 150. 
Cabinet Pudding, 171. 
Cafe Frappe, 192. 
Cake, Angel, 198. 

Chocolate, 200. 
Sponge, 198. 

Fruit, 201. 
Light, 200. 

Gold, 201. 

Hot Water, 199. 

Layer, 198. 

Leopard, 200. 



Cake, Marble, 200. 
Nut, 200. 
Orange, 201. 
Plain, 199. 
Pound, 201. 
Ribbon, 200. 
Silver, 201. 
Sponge, 197. 
White, 198. 
Sunrise, 201. 
Sunshine, 198. 
White, 200. 
Calf's Brains, 138. 
Heart, 137. 
Liver, 137. 
Tongue, 137. 
Caper Sauce, 66. 
Caramel Custard, 166. 
Frosting, 205. 
Sauce, 194. 

Carrot Soup, Cream of, 77. 
Carrots, 150. 
Cauliflower, 150. 
Salad, 105. 
Soup, Cream of, 77. 
Celeriac Salad, 105. 
Celery, 151. 

Fringed, 151. 

Salad, Apple, Nut, and, 103. 
Sauce, 66. 

Soup, Cream of, 77. 
Stewed, 151. 

Cereal Fruit Pudding, 164. 
Cereals, 16. 
Charlotte Russe, 186. 
Chartreuse of Fruit, 183. 
Cheese Canapes, 214. 
Crackers, 212. 
Curds, Fresh, 215. 
Eggs Baked with, 47. 
Fondu, 214. 
Macaroni with, 92. 
Omelet, 53. 
Puffs, 213. 



Index. 



271 



Cheese Rolls, 33. 

Salad, Egg and, 106. 

Sandwiches, 212. 

Soup, Cream of, 79. 

Sticks, 212. 

Straws, 213. 

Toast, 212. 
Cream, 213. 

Welsh Rabbit, 213. 
Cherries, n. 
Cherry Soup, 82. 
Chestnut Croquettes, 95. 

Soup, Cream of, 79. 
Chestnuts, Lyonnaise, 216. 

Roasted, 216. 
Chicken, Broiled, 142. 

Chaudfroid of, 109. 

Croquettes, 98. 

Fried, Southern, 142. 

Liver Balls, 143. 

Livers, 143. 
en Brochette, 143. 

Roast, 141. 

Salad, 105. 

Smothered, 142. 

Soup, Cream of, 79. 

Stuffing for, 141. 

Timbales, 85. 
Chicory Salad, 105. 
Chiffonade Salad, 105. 
Chocolate Cake, 200. 

Frosting, 203. 
Boiled, 204. 

Pudding, 170. 

Sauce, 194. 

Sponge Cake, 198. 
Chops, Breaded, 134. 

Mutton, 133. 

Pork, Broiled, 141. 

Stuffed, 134. 

Veal, 135. 
Clam Bouillon, 123. 

Fritters, 122. 
Clams, Fried, 122. 



Clams, Scalloped, 122. 

Steamed, 122. 
Cocoa, 217. 

Shells and Nibs, 217. 
Cocoanut Sponge, 168. 
Codfish, Creamed, 86. 

Puff, 87. 
Coffee, 218. 

After Dinner, 219. 

Corn, 221. 

Cream, 183. 

Custard, 166. 

with Egg, 219. 

without Egg, 219. . 

Filtered, 219. 

for Fairs and Sociables, 220. 

Frosting, 203. 

Left-Over, 220. 

Mousse, 190. _ 
Cold Slaw, 104. 
Compote of Apples, 8. 
Consomme, 74. 

Royale, 76. 
Cookies, 206, 208. 

Cream, 208. 

Molasses, 211. 

Peanut, 210. 

Plain, 208. 
Corn Bread, Southern, 39. 

Cake, 38. 

Rhode Island, 41. 
Scalded, 38. 

Coffee, 221. 

Dodgers, 38. 

Fritters, 152. 

Green, 152. 

Hulled, 19. 
Soup, 81. 

Mush, 20. 

Pudding, 152. 

Soup, Cream of Indian, 80. 

Timbale, 152. 
Corned Beef, 129. 
Cottage Pudding, 175. 



272 



Index. 



Crab Salad, 106. 
Crabs, 124. 

Cranberries, Jellied, u. 
Cranberry Jelly, Strained, n. 
Cream Coffee, 183. 

Cookies, 208. 

Filling, 205. 

Peach Bavarian, 184. 

Puffs, 202. 

Rye Cakes in, 43. 

Sauce, 66. 

Soups, 76. 

Toast, 44. 

Whipped, 185. 
Creamy Sauce, 193. 
Croquettes, 94, 98. 

Apple, 98. 

Bean, 95. 

Chestnut, 95. 

Chicken, 98. 

Farina, 99. 

Fish, 98. 

Frying, 97. 

Ice-Cream, 192. 

Lobster, 98. 

Macaroni, 92. 

Nut, 98. 

Parsnip, 95. 

Potato, 99. 

Rice, 22. 

Shaping, 96. 

Surprise, 99. 
Croquettes, Thick Sauce for, 65. 

Veal, 98. 
Croutons, 45. 
Crumbs, 45. 

Buttered, 45. 
Crumpets, 30. 
Cucumber Sauce, 69. 

Soup, Cream of, 77. 
Cucumbers, 152. 
Currants, n. 
Curry of Mutton, 135. 

Sauce, 67. 



Custard, Caramel, 166. 

Coffee, 166. 

Fruit, 166, 168. 

Maple, 166. 

Silver and Gold, 167. 
Custards, Baked, 166. 

Boiled, 167. 

Steamed, 166. 
Cutlets, Beef, 128. 

Veal, 136. 

Dates, ii. 
Devil's Food, 200. 
Dinner, 112. 
Doughnuts, 211. 

Drop, 36. 

Raised, 31. 
Doughs, Quick, 34. 

Yeast, 23. 
Dried Fruits, 7. 
Drop Cakes, Graham, 36. 

Doughnuts, 36. 
Duck, Stuffing for, 145. 
Ducks, Roast Mallard or 

Teal, 145. 
Dumplings, Apple, 37. 

Meat, 91. 

for Stews, Quick, 35. 

Raised, 33. 
Dutch Apple Tea Cake, 175. 

Sauce, 69. 

Eclairs, 203. 
Egg Baskets, 50. 

Bread, 39. 

Cutlets, 51. 

Salad and Cheese, 106. 

Sauce, 67. 

Timbales, 50. 

Eggs, Baked with Cheese, 47. 
with Ham, 48. 

Baked Dropped, 47. 

Boiled, 46. 

Buttered, 48. 



Index. 



273 



Eggs in Cases, 49. 

Coddled, 49. 

Creamed, 49. 

Curried, 51. 

Dropped, 46. 

with Fish, 51. 

Fried, 48. 

Golden Rod, 49. 

Macaroni with, 92. 

Poached, 46. 
with Tomatoes, 47. 

Scotch, 51. 

Scrambled, with Onion, 48. 

Shirred, 47. 

Stuffed, 50. 
Egg Plant, Fried, 153. 

Stuffed, 153. 
Emergency Luncheons, 

Menus, 60. 
English Muffins, 30. 

Farina, Apple, 19. 

Fig Filling, 206. 

Figs, Stewed, n. 

Fillet of Beef, Larded, 126. 

Filling, Cream, 205. 

Fig, 206. 

Fruit, 205. 

Lemon Turnover, 180. 

Mocha Cream, 206. 
Finnan Haddie, 120. 
Fish, Baked, 116. 

Balls, 88. 

Finnan Haddock, 89. 
Left-Over, 88. 
Pink, 89. 

Boiled, 115. 

Boned, Stuffed, 118. 

Boning, 114. 

Broiled, 119. 

Chartreuse of Rice and, 85. 

Cooking, Best Methods 
of, 114. 

Forcemeat, 121. 



Fish, Fried, 120. 

Left-Overs, 87. 

Pickled, 87. 

Preparation of, 114. 

Rabbit, 118. 

Salad, Jellied, 109. 

Scalloped, 84. 

Skinning, 114. 

Soup, Cream of, 79. 

Steamed, 116. 

Stew, 116. 

Stock, 115. 

Stuffing for, 120. 

Timbales, 86. 
Floating Island, 167. 
Forcemeat, Fish, 121. 
Fowl for Stewing, To cut up 

a, 142. 
Frappe, 187. 

Cafe, 192. 

French Dressing, 100. 
Fricandelles, 85. 
Fritter Batter, 91. 
Fritters, Apple, 91 

Clam, 91. 

Corn, 152. 

Fruit, 91. 

Meat, 91. 

Oyster, 91. 

Parsnip, 156. 

Rice, 165. 

Tripe, 91. 

Vanity, 203. 
Frosting, 204. 

Boiled, 204. 
Chocolate, 204. 

Caramel, 205. 

Chocolate, 203. 

Coffee, 203. 

Orange, 204. 

White, 203. 
Frozen Desserts, 186. 

Mint, 192. 

Pudding, 186. 



274 



Index. 



Fruit Cake, 201. 
Light, 200. 
Chartreuse of, 183. 
Custard, 166, 168. 
Filling for Cakes, 205. 
Foam, 174. 
Fritters, 91. 
Ice, 191. 

Macedoine of, 183. 
Puffs, 176. 
Punch, 221. 
Souffle, 173. 
Sauce, 193. 
Soups, 81. 
Sponges, 185. 
Tapioca, 172. 
Fruits, Dried, 7. 

Garnishes for Salads, 102. 
Gelatin Puddings, 181. 
Gems, Graham, 41. 

Oatmeal, 39. 
German Cabbage, 150. 

Coffee Bread, 32. 
Gingerbread, Hard, 210. 

Soft Molasses, 211. 
Gold Cake, 201. 
Golden Sauce, 193. 
Goose, Roast, 144. 

Stuffing for, 144. 
Gooseberries, 12. 
Graham Drop Cakes, 36. 

Gems, 41. 

Grape Sherbet, 192. 
Grapes, Spiced, 12. 
Grapefruit, 12. 
Gravy for Roast Meats, 71. 
Greens, 152. 
Griddle Cakes, 41. 

Raised, 33. 

Halibut, Baked, Stuffed, 117. 
alaPoulette, 119. 



Halibut Turbans, 118. 
Ham, Boiled, 138. 

Broiled, 139. 

Eggs Baked with, 48. 

Macaroni with, 92. 

Mousse, no. 

Omelet, 53. 
Hamburg Steaks, 128. 
Hard Sauce, 193. 
Hash, 83. 

Steak, 84. 

Vegetable, 84. 
Hasty Pudding, 20. 
Heart, Calf's, 137. 
Hermits, 210. 
Hollandaise Sauce, 69. 
Hominy, 20. 

Cakes, 20. 

Horseradish Sauce, 69. 
Hot Water Cake, 199. 
Hulled Corn, 19. 

Ice-Cream, 186, 189. 

Croquettes, 192. 

from Left-Overs, 192. 

Maple Sauce for, 191. 

Philadelphia, 189. 

Variations, 190. 
Ices, Fresh Fruit, 191. 

Macedoine, 191. 

Water, 187. 
Indian Pudding, Baked, 165. 

Jelly, Cranberry, Strained, n, 

Lemon, 182. 

Omelet, 53. 

Orange, 183. 
Julienne Soup, 76. 

Kisses, 199. 

Lady Fingers, 198. 
Lamb, Boiled Leg of, 132. 



Index. 



275 



Lamb, Crown Roast of, 133. 

Shoulder of, 134. 

Roast, 133. 
Leeks, 153. 
Left-Overs, Fish, 87. 

Fish Balls, 88. 

Ice-Cream from, 192. 
Lemon Jelly, 182. 

Pie, 180. 

Turnover Filling, 180. 
Lemons, 12. 
Lentil Soup, 78. 
Lentils, 153. 
Lettuce, 153. 

Soup, Cream of, 77. 

Stewed, 154. 
Limes, 12. 
Liver, Beef's, 129. 

Calf's, 129. 

Lamb's, 130. 

Minced, 130. 
Lobster Croquettes, 98. 

Plain, 123. 

Sauce, 67. 

to Select and Open, 123. 

Stewed, 124, 
Luncheon, 57. 
Luncheons, Emergency, 60. 

Macaroni, 91. 

Croquettes, 92. 

Soup, 76. 

with Cheese, 92. 

with Eggs, 92. 

with Ham, 92. 

with Oysters, 92. 

with Rabbit Sauce, 93. 

with Tomato, 93. 
Macaroons, 202. 

Oatmeal, 202. 
Macedoine of Fruit, 183. 

Ice, 191. 

Omelet, 53. 

Salad, 106. 



Mackerel, Salt, 120. 
Maitre d' Hotel Butter, 68. 
Maize Muffins, 40. 

Sauce, 67. 
Maple Custard, 166. 

Sauce for Ice-Cream, 191. 
Marble Cake, 200. 
Marlborough Pie, 178. 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 100. 

Tartare, 101. 
Meat Cakes, 85. 

Chartreuse of Rice and, 85. 

Dumplings, 91. 

Fritters, 91. 

Hash, 83. 

Jellied, 86. 

Loaf, 138. 

on Toast, Minced, 85. 

Scalloped, 84. 

Timbales, 50. 
Meats, Gravy for Roast, 71. 

Mixed Mustard for Cold, 70. 

Warming Over, General Di- 
rections for, 83. 
Melons, 12. 
Meringues, 199. 
Milk Toast, 44. 
Mince Pie, 179. 

for Summer, 180. 
Mint Sauce, 70. 
Minute Pudding, 164. 
Mocha Cream Filling, 206. 
Molasses Cookies, 211. 

Gingerbread, Soft, an. 

Sauce, 194. 

Mousse, 186, 190. 

Coffee, 190. 

Ham, no. 
Muffins, 35. 

Blueberry, 35. 

English, 30. 

Maize, 40. 

Mush, 31. 

Raised, 30. 



276 



Index. 



Muffins, Rye, 35. 

Tea, 35. 
Mush Balls, 19. 

Corn, 20. 

Fried, 20. 

Muffins, 31. 
Mushroom Rolls, 154. 

Sauce, 67. 

Soup, Cream of, 77. 
Mushrooms, Broiled, 154. 
Mustard, Mixed, for Cold 

Meats, 70. 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 132. 

Chops, 133. 
Breaded, 134. 
Stuffed, 134. 

Curry of, 135. 

Saddle of, 133. 

Shoulder of, 134. 

Nesselrode Pudding, 190. 
Noodle Soup, 76. 
Noodles, 93. 
Nut Cake, 200. 

Croquettes, 98. 

Salad, 106. 

Oatmeal Biscuit, 29. 

Bread, 29. 

Gems, 39. 

Macaroons, 202. 
Okra, Stewed, 155. 
Omelet, 52. 

Asparagus, 52. 

Bacon, 53. 

Bread, 53. 

Cauliflower, 52 

Celery, 52. 

Cheese, 53. 

Creamy, 53. 

Ham, 53. 

Jelly, S3- 

Macedoine, 53. 

Oyster, 53. 



Omelet, Parsley, 54. 

Puffy, 52. 

Souffle, 52. 

Spanish, 54. 

Tomato, 54. 

Variations, 52. 
Onion, Eggs Scrambled with, 48. 

Salad, Apple and, 104. 

Soup, 77. 
Onions, 155. 

Scalloped, 155. 
Orange Butter, 205. 

Cake, 201. 

Cups, 13. 

Frosting, 204. 

Jelly, 183. 

Pudding, 169. 

Wafers, 210. 
Oyster Fritters, 91. 

Omelet, 53. 

Plant, 162. 

Salad, 106. 

Sauce, 67. 
Oysters, Broiled, 121. 

Fried, 121. 

Macaroni with, 92. 

Supreme, 121. 

Panada, 168. 
Parfait, 190. 
Parsley Omelet, 54. 
Parsnip Croquettes, 95. 

Fritters, 156. 
Parsnips, 155. 
Pastry, Plain, 176. 

Puff, 176. 
Patties, 177. 

Peach Bavarian Cream, 184. 
Peaches, 13. 
Peanut Cookies, 210. 

Puree, 80. 
Pears, 13. 

Pea Soup, Split, 78. 
Peas, Green, 156. 



Index. 



277 



Peas, Cream of, 78. 
Stewed Dry, 156. 
Timbales of, 156. 
Peppers Broiled with Steak, 157. 

Stuffed, 156. 
Pickle Sauce, 69. 
Pie, Apple, 177. 
Berry, 178. 
Lemon, 180. 
Marlborough, 178. 
Mince, 179. 

for Summer, 180. 
Pumpkin, 179. 
Rhubarb, 181. 
Squash, 179. 
Pig, Roast, 140. 
Pilau, 21. 

Pineapple Sherbet, 191. 
Pineapples, 13. 
Plum Pudding, 174. 
Plums, 14. 
Pop-overs, 40. 
Pork Chops, Broiled, 141. 

Crown of, 141. 
Potato Cakes, 159. 
Croquettes, 99. 
Crust, 159. 
Marbles, 160. 
Puff, 161. 
Rolls, 31. 
Roses, 159. 
Salad, 107. 
Souffle, 161. 
Soup, Cream of, 78. 
Potatoes, 158. 

au Gratin, 161. 
Baked, 158. 
Broiled, 160. 
Browned Sweet, 158. 
Delmonico, 161. 
French Fried, 160. 
Hashed, 160. 
Lyonnaise, 161. 
Mashed, 159. 



Potatoes, Smothered, 161. 

Sweet, 158. 
Pot Roast, 126. 
Pound Cake, 201. 
Prune Loaf, 37. 

Puff, 173. 
Prunes, 14. 

Stuffed, 14. 
Pudding, Andennatt Rice, 165. 

Apple, 169. 
Dutch, 175. 
Steamed, 175. 

Apricot, 164. 

Baked Indian, 165. 

Bread and Butter, 170. 

Cabinet, 171. 

Cereal Fruit, 164. - 

Chocolate, 170. 

Corn, 152. 

Cottage, 175. 

Cream Rice, 165. 

Frozen, 186. 

Hasty, 20. 

Minute, 164. 

Nesselrode, 190. 

Orange, 169. ^.- 

Plum, 174. 

Rice, Frozen, 190. 

Quaking, 184. 

Snow, 183. 

Spiced, 169. 

Steamed, 174. 

Tapioca, 172. 
Fruit, 172. 

Thanksgiving, 171. 

Yorkshire, 40. 
Puddings, Gelatin, 181. 
Pudding Sauces (see Sauces). 
Puff, Codfish, 87. 

Pastry, 176: 

Prune, 173. 
Puffs, Cheese, 213. 

Cream, 202. 

Fruit, 176. 



2 7 8 



Index. 



Pumpkin Pie, 179. 
Punch, Fruit, 221. 

Quaking Pudding, 184. 
Quinces, 14. 

Rabbit, Fish, 118. 

Radishes, 157. 

Raisins, 14. 

Raspberries, 14. 

Rhode Island Corn Cakes, 41. 

Rhubarb, 15. 

Pie with One Crust, 181. 
Ribbon Cake, 200. 
Rice, Boiled, 21. 

and Meat or Fish, Chartreuse 
of, 85. 

Croquettes, 22. 

Fritters, 165. 

Pudding, Andermatt, 165. 
Cream, 165. 
Frozen, 190. 

Spanish, 21. 

Surprise, 22. 

Sweet, 22. 

Timbales, ai. 

Turkish, ai. 
Rolls, 30. 

Cheese, 33. 

Fried, 31. 

Potato, 31. 

Squash, 31. 

Surprise, 38. 

Swedish, 30. 
Rye Cakes in Cream, 43. 

Muffins, 35. 

Salad, Asparagus, 103. 

Apple, Nut, and Celery, 103. 
Apple and Onion, 104. 
Banana, 104. 
Beet, 104. 
Cabbage, 104. 
Cauliflower, 105. 
Celeriac, 105. 



Salad, Chaudfroid of Chicken, 109. 

Chicken, 105. 

Chicory, 105. 

Chiffonade, 105. 

Crab, 106. 

Egg and Cheese, 106. 

Ham Mousse, no. 

Jellied Fish, 109. 

with Jellied Mayonnaise, 108. 

Macedoine, 106. 

Nut, 106. 

Oyster, 106. 

Potato, 107. 

Surprise, no. 

Tomato, 107. 
Jelly, 109. 

Vegetable, 106. 

Waldorf, 104. 
Salad Dressing, Boiled, 101. 

Cream, 102. 
for Fruit Salads, Cooked, 

IO2. 

French, 100. 

Mayonnaise, 100. 
Tartare, 101. 

Remoulade, 102. 
Salads, 100. 

Garnishes for, 102. 
Salmon, Boiled, 116. 

Loaf, 86. 

Soup, Cream of, 79. 
Salsify, 162. 
Salted Almonds, 216. 
Sandwiches, Cheese, 212. 
Sauce, Allemand, 66. 

Apple, 8. 

Asparagus, 66. 

Baked Apple, 9. 

Bearnaise, 70. 

Bechamel, 66. 

Bread, 68. 

Brown, 66. 
Butter, 68. 

Caper, 66. 



Index. 



279 



Sauce, Celery, 66. 

Cream, 66. 

Cucumber, 69. 

Curry, 67. 

Drawn Butter, 66. 

Dutch, 69. 

Egg, 67. 

Hollandaise, 69. 

Horseradish, 69. 

Lobster, 67. 

Maitre d' Hotel Butter, 68. 

Maize, 67. 

Mint, 70. 

Mushroom, 67. 

Oyster, 67. 

Pickle, 69. 

Shrimp, 67. 

Soubise, 67. 

Spanish, 67. 

Tartare, Mayonnaise, 101. 

Thick, for Croquettes or 
Souffles, 65. 

Tomato, 68. 
Cream, 68. 

White, 65. 
Sauces, Caramel, 194. 

Chocolate, 194. 

Creamy, 193. 

Fruit, 193. 

Golden, 193. 

Hard, 193. 

Liquid, with Variations, 194. 

Molasses, 194. 

Process of Mixing, 64. 

Pudding, 193. 

Sponge, 193. 
Sausages, Surprise, 141. 
Scallops, 124. 

Curry of, 124. 
Scalloped Fish, 84. 

Meat, 84. 

School Lunches, 62. 
Scones, 37. 
Shad, Baked, 117. 



Shad, Planked, 119. 
Sherbet, Grape, 192. 

Pineapple, 191. 
Sherbets, 187. 
Shortcake, 36. 
Shrimp Sauce, 67. 
Silver Cake, 201. 
Sirup, Apricot, 10. 
Smelts, Stuffed, 119. 
Snow Pudding, 183. 
Soubise Sauce, 67. 
Souffles, 90. 

Fruit, 173. 
Soup, Asparagus, Cream of, 77. 

Baked Bean, 78. 

Black Bean, 78. 

Bouillon, 74. 
Quick, 75. 

Carrots, Cream of, 77. 

Cauliflower, Cream of, 77. 

Celery, Cream of, 77. 

Cheese, Cream of, 79. 

Cherry, 82. 

Chestnuts, Cream of, 79. 

Chicken, Cream of, 79. 

Consomme, 74. 
Royale, 76. 

Corn, Cream of, 77. 

Cucumbers, Cream of, 77. 

Fish, Cream of, 79. 

Green Peas, Cream of, 78. 

Hulled Corn, 81. 

Indian Corn, Cream of, 80. 

Julienne, 76. 

Lentil, 78. 

Lettuce, Cream of, 77. 

Macaroni, 76. 

Mock Bisque, 78. 

Mushrooms, Cream of, 77. 

Noodle, 76. 

Onion, 77. 

Peanut Puree, 80. 

Pea, Split, 78. 

Potato, Cream of, 78. 



280 



Index. 



Soup, Salmon, Cream of, 79. 

Spinach, Cream of, 77. 

Succotash, 81. 

Summer Squash, Cream of, 
77- 

Swedish, 82. 

Tomato, 80. 
Cream of, 78. 

Turnips, Cream of, 77. 

Vermicelli, 76. 

Watercress, Cream of, 77. 
Soups, 72. 

Brown Stock, 74. 

Clear, 75. 

Cream, 76. 

Fruit, 81. 

Stock from Left-Overs, 73. 

Thickening for White 

Stock, 74. 
Spanish Beans, 148. 

Omelet, 54. 

Rice, 21. 

Sauce, 67. 

Spinach Soup, Cream of, 77. 
Spiced Pudding, 169. 
Sponge, Apricot, 184. 

Cake, 197. 

Cocoanut, 168. 

Drops, 198. 

Fruit, 185. 

Sauce, 193. 

Tapioca, 173. 
Squash Pie, 179. 

Winter, 157. 
Squash, Summer, 157. 
Cream of, 77. 
Fried, 158. 
Stew, Fish, 116. 
Stews, Quick Dumplings for, 35. 

Raised Dumplings for, 33. 
Strawberries, 15. 
String Beans, 149. 
Stuffing for Chicken, 141. 

Duck, 145. 



Stuffing for Fish, 120. 

Goose, 144. 

Turkey, 141. 
Succotash Soup, 81. 
Summer Squash, Cream of, 77. 
Sunrise Cake, 201. 
Sunshine Cake, 198. 
Surprise Croquettes, 99. 

Rolls, 38. 

Sausages, 141. 
Swedish Rolls, 30. 

Soup, 82. 

Timbale Cases, 90. 
Sweetbreads, 138. 
Sweet Potatoes, 158. 
Browned, 158. 

Tapioca, 171. 

Cream, 172. 

Fruit, 172. 

Pudding, 172. 

Sponge, 173. 

Tartare, Mayonnaise, 101. 
Tarts, 177. 
Tea, 217. 

Russian, 218. 
Tea Muffins, 35. 
Thickening for Soups, 65. 
Timbale Cases, Swedish, 90. 
Timbales, Chicken, 85. 

Corn, 152. 

Egg, 50. 

Meat, 50. 

of Peas, 156. 

Rice, 21. 
Toast, 43. 

Cheese, 212. 
Cream, 213. 

Continental, 44. 

Cream, 44. 

for Garnishing, 43. 

Milk, 44. 

Minced Meat on, 85. 
Tomato, Macaroni with, 93. 



Index. 



281 



Tomato, Omelet, 54. 

Salad, 107. 
Jelly, 109. 

Sauce, 68. 

Soup, Cream of, 78. 
Tomatoes, 162. 

Baked, 163. 

Broiled, 163. 

Deviled, 163. 

Scalloped, 162. 
Tongues, Calf's, 137. 

Spiced, 137. 
Tripe, 130. 

in Batter, 131. 

Broiled, 130. 

Fritters, 91. 

Lyonnaise, 131. 

a la Poulette, 132. 

Scalloped, 131. 

Stuffed, 132. 
Turkey, Roast, 143. 

Stuffing for, 141. 
Turkish Rice, 21. 
Turnip Soup, Cream of, 77. 
Turnips, 162. 
Tutti Frutti, 15. 

Vanity Fritters, 203. 



Veal, 135. 

Veal Chops, 135. 

Croquettes, 98. 

Cutlets, 136. 

Salad (see Chicken), 105. 
Vegetable Hash, 84. 

Salad, 106. 

Vegetables, Directions for Cook- 
ing, 146. 
Vermicelli Soup, 76. 

Wafers, 209. 

Orange, 210. 
Waldorf Salad, 104. 
Water Ices, 187. 
Watercress Soup, Cream of, 77. 
Welsh Rabbit, 214. 

Chafing-Dish, 213. 
Whipped Cream, 185. 
White Cake, 200. 

Frosting, 203. 

Sauce, 65. 

Yeast Doughs, 23. 
Yorkshire Pudding, 40. 

Zwieback, 32. 




O? THE 

( UNIVERSITY 
V or 



IETURN BIOSCIENCE & NATURAL RESOURCES LIBRARY 

fO ^ 2101 VALLEY LIFE SCIENCES BLDG. 642-2531 



OAN PERIOD 1 


2 


3 


t 


7 DAYS 


6 



ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 



DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 



DUE 






FEB 1 3 f998 






REC'D BIOS 






t6'98-A 


fl 





















































UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 

ORM NO. DDO, 50m, 1 1/94 BERKELEY, CA 94720 



