Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



uc 

723 



MANUAL FOR 

ARMY BAKERS 

1910 



WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1910 



WAR DEPARTMENT 

Document No. 358 

Officb of thb Commissaby General. 









War Department, 
Office op the Chief of Staff, 

Washingtoriy December 15, 1909. 

The following ''Manual for Army Bakers," prepared under the 
direction of the Commissary-General, U. S. Army, b^ a board of 
officers consisting of Capt. Henry T. Ferguson, Commissary, Capt. 
Francis J. Koester, Commissary, and Capt. Lucius R. Holbrook, 
Commissary, is approved and herewith issued for the information 
and guidance of the Regular Army and the Organized Militia of the 
United States. 

By order of the Secretary of War: 

J. FRANKLIN BELL, 
Major-General, Chief of Staff. 



O 



^ 



250361 



CONTENTS. 



Paragraphs. 

Chafteb I.— Wheat and Flour 1-20 

Chafteb n.— Yeast 1 21-40 

Chapter III.— Bread 41-70 

Chapter IV.— Special Recipes 71S1 

Chapter V.— Post Bakery Equipment 82-91 

Chapter VI.— Field, Baking and Field Bakery Equipment 92-95 

Chapter VIL— Field Baking Expedient? 96-99 

Index 81-89 

5 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Page. 

Samples of wheat 8 

Structure of the wheat kernel 10 

The yeast plant as seen under the microscope 19 

The flour cell as seen under the microscope 20 

Cellular structure and proportions of a well-formed loaf 38 

Dough mixer: 

(o) In working position 42 

(6) In position for dumping 43 

Molding table 66 

Bread troughs 66 

Bread box for small bakery 67 

Extemporized oven built on level ground 72 

Extemporized oven built in a bank 76 

Baking in the open trench 78 

Double-barrel oven 79 

6 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 



Chapter I. 

WHEAT AND FLOUR. 

1. Flour is a general term used to designate the finely ground meal 
of wheat, rye, or other cereals, but in this manual it will be used 
specially to designate wheat flour unless otherwise stated. 

2. Wheat flour is ground from — 

(a) Winter wheat, which is sown in the fall and is hardy enough 
to survive the winter; or from, 
(6) Spring wheat, which is sown in the spring. 

CLASSIFICATION OF WHEAT. 

3. Winter wheat is generally classed as soft wheat and spring wheat 
as hard wheat j but there are hard and soft varieties of both. Generally 
speaking, flour from hard wheat contains a relatively large propor- 
tion of gluten, say from 10 per cent to 16 per cent, ana flour from soft 
wheat much less, generally from 7 per cent to 9 per cent. From a 
baker's standpoint, starch is of secondary importance. Flour is 
composed almost entirely of these two elements and each serves a 
most important function in the process of bread making. 

Winter wheat is divided into two general varieties, red winter 
wheat, which is hard, and white winter wheat, which is soft. It is 
raised in climates where the weather is not excessively cold, e. g., 
Ohio, Indiana, Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, and the racific coast. 
Missouri, Kansas, and Oklahoma produce specially fine hard winter 
wheat. The grains of the Pacific coast winter wheat are large and 
well formed, but contain a relatively large proportion of starch and 
little gluten. 

7 



UANUAI^ Kir A 



r-- 


«^ 


' K. ^'W^. 


^ 


> 


^ ^^ 


m 
•^^ 


— ' 


"^3 


1^^ 


^ 


^S- ,^ 


m 


-^ 


^^^ .i» 


^ 


^ 


^ «^ 


m 

m 


i 
> 

^ 





U. 8. Dept. or Agr., Bui. 1M, Office of Eipt. Slatloiia. 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 9 

Spring wheat is generally classed as a hard wheat, and its value 
rated according to its strength (par. 7). It may be raised in the 
more severe climates, and we find most excellent spring wheat flour 
of a hard variety coming from Minnesota and the Dakotas, the newer 
the territory, the harder is the variety of wheat produced. 

SWEATING OF WHEAT AND FLOUB. 

4. About September or October the wheat from the new crop and 
the flour made from it undergo a natural change of condition. They 
evolve (or give off) a portion of the water contained in them, and 
this chanee is accompanied by a rise in temperature. After passing 
through the sweat the wheat becomes dry, nard, and flinty, and it 
should not be milled until this time. Flour takes on a darker appear- 
ance during this period, and if it does not sour it becomes white 
again as the sweat passes off. While passing through the sweat it 
should not be used. If made from wheat that has not yet passed 
through the sweat it should be used up as soon as practicable in order 
that it may not become miisty and a total loss. Wheat is generally 
allowed to sweat in the stack, and always before milling. Unless it is 
intended to use the flour at once. 

MILLING. 

5. There are two processes of milling which are known as — 

(a) Low milling, in which the grain is ground between two large 
round flat stones with radial grooves cut in their grinding faces. 
One revolves at such a distance from the other, which is stationary, 
as to crush the grains and finally reduce them to powder. In this 
process the flour is heated to a temperature of at least 120° F., and 
it is believed that this injures the gluten, making it less tenacious 
and consequently less fit lor making light bread. In addition there 
is the objection that portions of the indigestible husks are ground into 
meal and mixed witn the flour. 

{h) High milling, in which the grains of wheat are passed suc- 
cessively between several sets of rollers, crushing the flour out of the 
husks, which are easily removed. The screened wheat is first 
moistened and passed between the corrugated surfaces of two rollers 
placed at such a distance apart as to simply crack the grains. The 



STRUCTURE OF THE WHEAT KERNEL. 
S, Slarehcella; (\ fliuton »IK: D, loner coat or bran; E, Trala (mtoring 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 11 

moisture prevents the outer husks from breaking up into small parti- 
cles and renders the separation of the bran a comparatively easy 
matter. The rollers of tne next set are placed much closer together, 
and after the grains have passed through, a small quantity ol flour, 
called *' break flour," togetner with larger particles of wheat, called 
*' middlings," is separated by means of screens and bolting cloths. 
The remainder, called ** tailings," is passed through the next set of 
rollers. After each of several such "reductions" the flour and 
middlings are separated and the latter passed between closely set 
smooth rollers. The bran, shorts, and other offals are removed at the 
different boltings from the several breaks. 

In both processes the flour is bolted through successive sieves of 
different fineness, the last being white silk of the finest bolting cloth. 
The finest grade of flour passes through the last sieve, and the coarser 
grades are left on the way, while the bran husk is entirely separated. 
High patent and family flours have more or less of the gluten re- 
moved in the successive bolting processes through which they pass 
and are consequently slightly less nourishing. 

COMPOSITION OF WHEAT. 

6. Hard wheat ordinarily contains about — 
10 per cent water. 

12 per cent gluten (the inner coat and distributed throughout the 
grain, producmg flesh and muscle). 

The amount and quality determine the water-retaining capacity 
of a flour and regulate the quantity of bread produced. (See pars. 
8 and 9.) 

13 per cent bran (the five outer coats), strong in woody fiber, mineral 
ingredients, and coloring matter. It is very indigestible and is 
mostly excluded from the flour in the process of manufacture, except 
where graham is desired. 

65 per cent starchy producing heat and fat. It is the water absorber. 
During the process of fermentation a small proportion — about 2 per 
cent — is transformed into alcohol and carbonic gae. The carbonic- 
acid gas forms in cells, giving lightness to the bread, but the alcohol 
is vaporized in the oven, where most of it escapes. 

The proportions in which the several ingredients appear vary con- 
siderably m different flours. For example, Oregon white winter 
wheat contains about 9 per cent gluten, Mmnesota hard spring wheat 



12 MANUAL FOR ARMT BAKERS. 

about 14 per cent, and Oklahoma hard winter wheat about 16 per 
cent. All wheat raised in low damp countries contains more mois- 
ture and generally less gluten than that raised in higher and drier 
climates. 

Soft wheat contains, less gluten and more starch and water than 
hard wheat. 

STBENOTH OF FLOUR. 

7. The strength of a flour depends upon the amount and 
quality of the gluten it contains. The great elasticity and tenacious 
character of gluten render the making of light bread possible. It 
forms layers of envelopes within the dough, preventing the escajje of 
the carbonic gas resulting from fermentation. This gas, as it rises, 
forms in pockets or cells, causing the dough to expand, and gives 
corresponding lightness to the bread. 

GLUTEN IN BREAD. 

8. The best bread ia made from a flour containing from 10 per 
cent to 16 per cent of gluten, but the quality of the gluten h^aa as much 
to do with the bread as the quantity. The gluten in wheat raised in 
low damp countries contains much moisture, and therefore appears 
to be in greater quantity than it really is. It is not tough enough to 
retain the fermentative gases, and consequently the bread is heavy 
and of poor quality. Gluten of poor quality is also found in the flour 
of sprouted wheat, of wheat that has been frosted, and of that which 
is immature or that has been raised on worked-out soil. 

SEPARATINO THE GLUTEN. 

9. In order to determine the percentage of gluten contained in a 
certain lot of flour, weigh out a definite amount, say 1 to 3 pounds, 
very carefully. Add suflScient water to make into a stiff dough. 
Let stand for about an hour (if convenient, though this is not abso- 
lutely necessary). Place in a bag of muslin and knead gently under 
a quiet stream of running water. The starch gradually separates, 
making the water "milky. " When it runs clear, the starch has all 
disappeared. 

The substance remaining is known as "wet gluten." In this 
state it contains approximately three parts water and one part gluten, 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 13 

BO that the amount of ''dry gluten ^^ can be ascertained approxi- 
mately by dividing by four; but it would be better to set it on the 
top of the oven and determine its weight accurately after it has 
dried out for forty-eight hours. If 1 pound of flour were taken, the 
amount of "wet gluten " obtained might run as high as 7 or 8 ounces, 
and this would be reduced to, say, about 2 ounces after thoroughly 
dried out. The percentage of gluten present in the flour is found by 
dividing the weight of the dried gluten in ounces by the number of 
ounces of flour used in the test. 

The actual amount of gluten found is of importance, in that it rep- 
resents the percentage of muscle-building material present in the flour. 
The strength of the flour is determined more by the quality of the 
gluten found than by the amount. If strong, the gluten will be 
solid and tough; but if from a weak flour it will be more plastic. It 
would be well to make the test with flours that are known to be 
strong and others known to be weak, in order to get a standard in the 
mind for comparison. 

As a matter of fact gluten as such does not exist in wheat or dry 
flour. Two elements of flour, known respectively as glutenen (a 
light grayish substance) and gliadin (resembling glue) quickly unite 
in the presence of water and form the so-called gluten. 

PLOUB USED IN BREAD UAKINO. 

10. White bread (or light bread) is made principally from white 
flour, which is also an important ingredient in most other breads. 
Bread, if made of rye flour alone, would be heavy, moist, sticky, 
and indigestible. Com meal alone would make a dry and crumbly 
loaf. Excellent bread results when there is a mixture of wheat 
flour with either of the other kinds mentioned. (See par. 72.) 

11. Graham flour is a mixture of bran and shorts generally with a 
more or less inferior grade of flour, and although it was formerly 
considered a valuable article of diet — especially for those suffering 
from constipation — ^it is now deemed best to discard bran as unfit 
for human food; and where the large flakes of bran are found in 
graham flour it would be best to sift them out. The outer bran husk 
IS almost pure silica (glass), and in passing through the system it 
scratches tne delicate membranes, setting up an irritation, causing 
increased secretions, and consequently acting as a laxative. For 
this reason its constant use is not recommended. 



14 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

A first-clab8 milling company has given the following formula for 
the preparation of graham nour: 

270 pounds of second grade flour. 
100 pounds of shorts. 
30 pounds of bran. 

Total 400 pounds. 

As shorts and bran are practically indigestible in the human 
stomach, it is noted from the above formula that the graham thus 
prepared contains but 67 J per cent as much actual nutriment as a 
corresponding weight of the white flour used. 

12. Bye is darker than wheat, but is otherwise similar in appear- ^ 
ance. It differs from it in that its gluten has not the same elastic ! 
and tenacious quality, and consequently it will not produce as light . 
a loaf. It is more easily cultivated than wheat, especially in cold 
countries, and consecjuently costs less when raised in quantity. ■ 
Wheat is fast replacing rye throughout the world, although the ' 
latter grain contains more muscle-making material (though probably ' 
it is less completely digested), and it is still the principal food used 
among the poor of certain countries of the old world. It constitutes 

the bread component of the ration of the Russian soldier. 

w 

WHERE TO STORE FLOUR. 

13. Flour ordinarily contains from 9 to 14 per cent of water, and ^ 
under the influence of heat — natural or artificial — not strong enough 
to expel the moisture, but strong enough to start fermentation, it ■ 
will heat and sour. Flour is peculiarly sensitive to the exhalations 
from other substances, and should not be stored in the same room 
with sour liquids, decaying vegetables, or articles that emit unsavory 
or noxious vapors. For the reasons stated it is evident that flour • 
should be kept in a cool^ dry^ well-ventilated store-room. If properly 
taken care of it will keep in a good condition for a year or more. 
A temperature of 70® F. or slightly less is best. High temperature . 
favors acid fermentation and mold. 

In order to protect flour against rats and mice newspapers should 
be loosely stuffed in convenient cracks. They will use these in ; 
preparing their nests and leave the sacks alone. 



MANUAL FOB ARMY BAKERS. 15 

EXEPINO QUALITIES. 

14. Wbeat improves in quality until after it passes through the 
sweat (par. 4), after which it does not undergo any perceptible 
change for years. 

By some bakers it is claimed thsit freshly ground flour is the best. 
Generally, it is claimed that it increases in bread-making properties 
as it gets older up to a certain limit and should not be used until it 
is at feast thirty aays old. It reaches a stage in three or four months 
beyond which time it does not continue to improve, and while it 
retains its acquired good qualities for a few months it soon begins to 
deteriorate and should not be kept for more than a year. When 
animal and vegetable parasites begin to appear it is generally an 
indication of decomposition of the gluten and consequent deteriora- 
tion of flour. 

15. Weevils and cockroaches often work their way into good flour 
imder certain circumstances and should be removed by passing the 
flour through a sieve. Much of the flour received in the Philippines 
(after a long ocean voyage in the hold of a ship) is found to be fairly 
alive with these little insects, and if the flour were destroyed or 
thrown away the troops would at times be without bread. Inas- 
much as such insects nave frequently been found in tinned flour 
presumed to have been hermetically sealed soon after milling, it 
must be that the germs from which they develop exist in the wheat 
and survive the process of milling, or that some cans are not air 
tight, and that the vermin enter at the leaks and deposit their eggs, 
which is more likely. Bread made from such flour nas a distinctly 
cockroach flavor. 

16 . Wet flour. Flour that has become wet and quickly dried is not 
spoiled. Sacks of flour left in the rain or dropped into the water 
snould be dried at once in order to prevent molding. If taken care 
of at once the loss will be small. 

TESTS OP PLOUB. 

17. The best test of flour is said to be in the baking, but there are 
many indications as to its true quality before we have proceeded to 
this stage. Good flour should not be of a pure white color, but of a 
creamy, yellowish-white shade, although color alone is not a guar- 
antee of quality. If pure white, or nearly so, the indications are 

20685—10 2 



16 MANUAL FOR ARMT BAKERS. 

that a large part of the gluten has been removed in milling and what 
ifi left is almost pure starch. If flour feels damp or sticky it is not of 
the best. Gooa flour falls loosely apart when squeezed in the hand 
and retains the iiopression of the Angers and even of the skin much 
longer than poor nour. If a handful is thrown against the vertical 
side of the trough, and a considerable portion of it hangs there, the 
indications are that the flour is rich in gluten; when rubbed between 
the Angers it should not feel too smooth and powdery, but its indi- 
vidual particles should be vaguely distinguishable; when put be- 
tween the teeth it should "crunch " a little; its taste should be sweet 
and nutty without a suspicion of acidity and it should have the smell 
and taste of freshly &;round wheat. Good flour, when kneaded into 
dough, is elastic and easy to handle. It will stay in a round puffv 
shape and will have taken up a great deal of water. Poor flour will 
be sticky, flatten out, and run over the board, and will never seem 
to get sufficiently stiff, no matter how much flour is added to it. 

BLENDING OF FLOUB. 

18. CN)od bread can be made from the flour of either winter or 
spring wheat, but best results are obtained from a mixture of two 
or more brands of flour, using both spring and winter wheat where 
practicable. The flour from winter wheat is required for light color 
and superior flavor and that from spring wheat for strong gluten. 
The miller can do the mixing in the process of manufacture and 
civilian bakers by specially prepared apparatus, but in the hands 
of the post baker it can be best done by using the best flour in the 
sponge and the poorer flour — that is, tne one containing the least 
amount of gluten — in kneading the dough. Winter wheat alone 
is often used in making crackers and pastries, as the resulting 
product is white and brittle. A flour strong in gluten is desired for 
making bread. 

19. Sifting. — All flour, regardless of its presumed condition, should 
be carefully sifted before used. Nails, pieces of twine, slivers of 
wood, mouse droppings, etc., in addition to hard lumps, are fre- 
quently removed from flour supposed to have been put up in the 
most careful manner. 



MANUAL FOB ARMY BAKERS. 17 

BLEACHED FLOUB. 

20. Very good flour, as well as the inferior grades, has frequently been 
bleached in order to secure a higher price or more ready sale on the 
market, as very white bread as well as light bread is frequently in demand. 

Flour may be bleached by careful exposure to the sunlight, but 
ordinarily oleaching is accomplished by passing nitrous or sul- 
phurous fumes over it. The actual chemical change resulting and 
the effect upon the system are not yet well understood, but where 
chemicals are used the Department of Agriculture holds that there 
is adulteration. 

When electrical appliances are used in connection with bleaching 
of flour, it is possible that the actual bleaching is still done by the 
fumes of nitrous oxide produced by the electric current. The 
exact cause of the bleachmg seems to be unknown, even to the De- 
partment of Agriculture. Bleached flour is not usually purchased 
for army use. 



Chapter IT. 
YEAST, 

(A) ELEHENTASY PBINCIPLES OP FEBHENTATION IN 

BREAD ULASJNQ. 

21. In order to understand the process and purpose of bread 
making, it must be remembered that flour consists largely of sUxrch 
and gluten and that these ingredients can be taken up and used 
in the system only after they have been converted into more soluble 
forms. 

Something must also be known about the process ot fermentation 
which renders it possible to make bread that can be easily digested 
by the juices supplied within the body for that purpose. 

22. Permentadon. — Light bread can be made by forcing com- 
pressed air through wet dough and baking at once, or by maldng 
use of the gas generated by certain so-called ''baking-powders" 
(see par. 30), but from time immemorial the Ordinary process has 
been to set up fermentation within the dough by some means or 
other, utilizing the gas generated to produce the cellular structure. 
**A microscopical examination was recently made of some bread 
over four thousand and four hundred years old, found in Egypt, 
with other remains of a long vanished people. It was maae of 
ground barley and the yeast cells were plainly visible." — H. W. 
Atwater, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

DEPAETUENT OP AOKXCTTLTTrBE. 

"Sow fermentation is simplv the change which takes place in vege> 
table matters when the starch and sugar they contain are decomposed 
and changed into new compounds. The change is hastened by the 
presence of a certain amount of moisture and a uniform temperatyre 
of from 80^ to 90° F., and may take place in two ways: 

18 



MANUAL FOR AEMT BAKERS. 



19 



(a) It may be epontaneous under favorable conditions of air^ 
moisture, and warmth. Such is the case when head (virgin or maiden) 
yeast is made, no ferment being added to the solution to start the 
fermentation. Grape juice, cider, etc., ferment in the same manner. 







0-^ 






ii> 



v.;:-' 







5> 












© ^ 



i©^. 



#^ 



^ ..(^" 
















Atwater, Bull. 112, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

YEAST PLANT. 

(Highly magnified.) 

Each yeast cell Is said to reproduce itself in from four to five hours under favorable 
conaitlons. The growth and development of cells as seen under the microscope 
is Illustrated above. 



Spores of fermentation are at all times floating about in the air and 
fermentation will start up spontaneously wherever proper conditions 
exist. 



(b"! Fermentation c&a be quickly started and greatly hastened by 
the introduction of a ferment." Thus we are accustomed to hasten 
the process by the following methods; 

1. By adding head yeast to the mixture from which stock yeast 
is developed. 



FLOUR CELL. 
(Highly msgalQed.) 



aspoDge or straight dough. 



first applied to Ihe yeasl plant, which In Its ^owth, caused tbedeoiniposltlonorsUKar 
Into alOQhol and carbonic eas. It Is also applied to other bacteria, which produce 
rcrmcDtatlan, a.s, [or example, In milk causing it to sour, or In rider causing It to turn 
to vinegar. These [ermenis helonK to s dais caJled ornanlied frrmenit: during their 
growth the fermentatJon ol substances in which they areloiind takes place. 

There Is a second class of [ermenis called unDi(ranlirf/n-mfn/». These are chemical 
tubiiames called "eaE^■mes" In whose presence certain lermentHtloDa take place 
without any chance whatever in the lerment producing them. In nature we find 
enzymes In all grains. Thus when a grain of wheat, barley, or oats la moistened 
and BuGl»Ie<^ (i) a cerlala amount at luat, an ciuym, called diastase, appears and 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 21 

Fermentation would eventually take place in each of the cases 
just cited without the introduction of a ferment, but we would not 
get the lively action desired, in some cases not even the same hind 
of fermentation; sour fermentation is apt to predominate and ruin 
the dough, sponge, or other mixture. 

In the beverage called malt extract active ferments do not appear. 
They are killed by sterilizing before being placed on the market. 

Ground malt contains these active elements as well as the sugar 
and digested gluten produced by them; hence it is a most useful 
ingredient to be used m making yeast. If, however, it is subjected 
to temperatures above 160° F. the ferments will be killed; conse- 
(juently, this ingredient should be added to the flour batter after 
it has cooled to below that temperature. Enzymes, in contrast to 
organized ferments, do not "grow" or otherwise change their form 
while fermentation is taking place, and the reason why fermentation 
occurs in their presence is not understood. It is said that in certain 
malt extracts there is sufficient diastase to transform six times its 
weight of starch into sugar. It reduces the amount of sugar to be 
used in bread making and adds desirable flavors. For each 100 
pounds of flour used in bread making about l^ pounds of Standard 
Malt Extract should be used. 

In the human body, enzymes are found in the saliva (the element 
here found is called ptyaline)^ and by its action starch is transformed 
into sugar. Other enzymes are found in the pepsin and tripsin of 
the digestive juices of the stomach, where they perform their im- 
portant function. 

causes the starch present to turn into sugar; and another enzym, called peptase 
causes the gluten to be transformed into a more digestible form. These two elements 
are necessary for the growth of the germ (baby plant), and nature has ordained that 
growth shall not take place so long as they exist In a raw state, but by its laws these 
substances are transformed into dipestible forms by the enzymes, in the presence 
ol heat and moisture. Now it is evident that if we produce the necessary conditions 
In grain we can start the growth of the germ, the starch and gluten being changed 
Into certain forms that are food for the plant. 

In making barley malt the germination of the seed is stopped as soon as the trans- 
formation has taken place. The plant is killed by drying the grain at a moderate 
temperature, but the diastase and peptase retain their fermenting power. Malt 
extract contains these elements in a concentrated form and it presents the appearance 
of molasses. 



22 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

THE DIFFERENT OEKEBAL METHODS OF UAK[NO BREAD. 

23. Lactic fennentation. — If a dough were made without a ferment 
and set in a warm place, what is called IcuAic fernientation would 
take place. Acid would be formed the same as in the souring of 
milk, and the bread baked from the dough would be sour and heavy. 

Leavened bread. — Now, if a piece of old dough is left to sour and 
is then mixed with new dough, both lactic /ermentation and alcoholc 
(oT yeast) fennentation would take place. As a result of the lactic 
fermentation an acid is formed which causes sourness in the bread. 
(See pars. 54 and 70.) As a result of the alcoholic fermentation car- 
bonic gas is formed, and the bread, although sour, would be light and 
spongy. The sour dou^ here referred to corresponds to the leaven 
( lefi-over" dough) of Bible times. 

Salt-rising bread. — Suppose we make a stiff batter of hot milk and 
corn meal and let it stand in a temperature of blood heat for several 
hours, when it will have become fermented throughout. Now make 
a stiff sponge with warm water, to which considerable salt has been 
added; mix thoroughly with the corn-meal batter, and allow to rise 
as usual before baking. In this case a spontaneous alcoholic fermen- 
tation is set up and the bread produced would be light and good, but 
it is not likea by many people, and it does not keep well. This is 
called salt or milk-rising bread. This manner of making bread is not 
entirely satisfactory for all purposes. Salt-rising bread is not gen- 
erally liked as a regular diet. 

Yeast bread. — ^Making bread by using yeast as a ferment is the 
best method known, and it is probably the only one that you will 
have to put into practice in the post bakery. In makine yeast 
bread, alcoholic fermentation alone (or accompanied by slignt acid 
fermentation) takes place, and the carbonic gas, rising toward the 
surface, is retained within the dough by the tenacious gluten, and a 
light spongy loaf is formed. 

If, however, f erinentation is allowed to proceed too far, or in a tem- 
perature much above 90® F., a change to acetic fermentation takes 
place, an acid is formed, and sour bread is the result. (See pars. 
49 and 55.) 

24. Necessity for light, spongy bread. — ^Take a small piece of fresh 
bread, bread that is less than twenty-four hours old, and roll it in the 
hands until it forms a solid mass. This is practically the condition 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 23 

of fresh or heavy bread when it is swallowed. On account of its 
indigestibility it rests like a heavy weight in the stomach; the juices 
can not penetrate and digest it. In order that bread can be digested, 
Bomething must be done in order that the juices may come m con- 
tact with all the particles that compose it. 

Place the mass in water and only the particles you see on the sur- 
face become wet. Now, if it were spongy, the water would penetrate 
it at once and come in contact with particles throughout the mass. 
Just so it is with light, spongy bread that is at least eighteen hours 
old. The digestive juices easily penetrate to all parts of the masses 
swallowed, and the conversion of starch into sugar goes on throughout 
the masses at the same time. A piece of candy placed in the mouth 
will disssolve very slowly; crush it into powder and it will soon be 
gone. This is exactly similar to the action of the digestive juices 
upon a gummy piece of bread as compared with one that is light and 
spongy and crumbles into small particles during the process of masti- 
cation. 

25. Gluten and starch must be converted into more soluble forms 
before they can be taken up and used in the system. 

This is done to a ereater or less degree in fruits while they are ripen- 
ing on the trees ana in some foods during the process of cooking; but 
in the case of bread almost all of this work must be done by the 
dig|^ive juices after the bread is taken into the mouth. 

Hence f we see that the art of making bread consists largely in producing 
a lightj spongy loaf. In addition, the bread must be palatable, being 

aerly seasoned and flavored. Bread is the most important of 
i and the cheapest article of diet. The more flour and bread 
used in the company kitchen, the cheaper will be the running 
expenses of the mess. 

Hard bread is made from water and inferior flour, with a little salt 
added to make it more palatable. Hot cakes and dumplings furnish 
altogether too much of the gummy masses spoken of above. - Good 
bread is in a class by itself, and post bakers All a most responsible 
position in supplying this most important component of the army 
ration. 

(B) THE GROWTH, CULTIVATION, AND USE OF YEAST. 

26. Wild yeast and other microscopic plants in the air. — Floating 
about in the atmosphere at all times are found obtain spores (minute 



24 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

particles capable of reproducing their kind) which multiply rapidly 
wherever tney find lodgment under conditions that favor their 
growth. These conditions are suitable foody warmth, moisture, and 
atmospfiere. Air is not essential, but hastens the process. 

The spores here referred to are the active agents in fermentation, 
and are at all times found mixed with flour, grain, and particles of 
food from which the air has not been excluded. 

Yeast is but one of the various microscopic forms of plant life 
found in the air, and in this state it is called ^^wild yeast.** 

27. What results from the growth of certain of these spores. — 
(<z) Certain of the spores above referred to find conditions suitable 
tor their growth in cider, and if they develop here an acid (acetic 
acid) will be formed, changing the cider into vinegar. In this case 
"acetic fermentation" will be said to have taken place. 

(b) Certain spores develop in sweet milk, producing lactic acid. 
The milk sours and "lactic fermentation " is said to have t^ken place. 

(c) Now if spores of '^wild yeast'' find lodgment in food suitable 
for their growth and the proper conditions of moisture, warmth, and 
air exist, they will grow, quickly reproducing themselves and during 
this process feed upon the starch and sugar present, transforming 
it into alcohol and carbonic gas. ' 'Alcoholic (or yeast) fermentation *° 
will then be said to have taken place. 

Many other microscopic plants floating in the air find their way 
accidentally into surroundings that favor their growth, and in each 
case a certain kind of fermentation peculiar to that plant results. 

28. Cultivation of the yeast plant. — If we mix up certain ingredi- 
ents and produce conditions suitable to the growth of the yeast 
plant, we find that it will soon develop. We ao this frequently in 
making ^^head (maiden or virgin) veast. Other kinds of fermentation 
may also be set up accidentally ana produce acids, so that the action 
of the yeast in bread making will be more or less ununiform (variable) 
and unreliable, and sour bread will result without apparent cause. 

In the preparation of compressed yeast (vsuch as Coroey's, Fleisch- 
mann's, Spielmann's, Riverside, and Red Star) a pure culture of 
the yeast plant has been made — that is, the spores producing acids 
have been eradicated, so that more uniform results are secured by 
its use than when a chance is taken of the accidental fermentation 
that may be set up in the dried compressed yeast or in yeast of our 
own manufacture. 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 25 

Yeast can not grow except in the presence of a certain amount 
of moisture. While in a dry state it will lie dormant for an indefi- 
nite period. Many different commercial companies take advantage 
of this fact and prepare a dried yeast that will keep for several months 
if not exposed to a moist atmosphere. It is generally supplied in 
the form of square or round cakes of granular appearance and can 
be prepared by any baker. The method of preparation is fully 
explained in paragraph 40. 

29. Yeast in bread. — Yeast feeds largely upon sugar, but sugar 
alone does not contain all the elements necessary to its growth. 
Certain albuminates and phosphates are also necessary, and these 
are found in the food prepared for the reception of the yeast plant. 
Incident to its growth, considerable sugar is decomposed into alcohol 
and carbonic gas, and ''alcoholic fermentation" is said to have 
taken place. The carbonic gas forms in pockets and cells throughout 
the dough, causing it to rise and expand and producing the desired 
cellular structure. It finally escapes from the bread, upon which 
it produces no chemical change whatever. 

30. Much more sugar (or starch) is decomposed than is necessary for 
the growth of the yeast plant, and it is on account of using up so much 
of the nutriment in the flour that efforts have frequently been made 
to discover some other process of producing the cellular structure in 
bread. As a result we have the '^aerated process'^ of making bread, 
and others in which baking powder and other chemicals are used. 
Both of the latter methods have their advantages and are used to 
considerable extent. The great convenience and saving of time 
effected by using baking powder in making biscuits, etc., is familiar 
to all, but in its use certain compounds are formed and left in the 
bread, are said to be more or less injurious if used contiuously. 

(C) INTEBESTING NOTES ON YEAST FERMENTATION. 

31. 1. A solution containing more than one-third of its weight in 
mgar will not be fermented by yeast. Bread can be made without 
it, but if used it adds an agreeable flavor. 

2. Yeast fermentation is arrested (checked) when the amount of 
alcohol in the solution reaches about ]8 per cent. If the percentage 
of alcohol present is reduced, yeast fermentation will start up again. 

3. Yeast fermentation is arrested and the yeast plant killed by 
strong adds or large quantities of salt 



26 MANUAL FOR ABMT BAKEBS. 

4. Yeast fennentation practically ceases at temperatures below 67® 
F. or above 95° F. 

5. In liquid yeasts or compressed yeasts the plant is killed by freezing 
or by a temperature of 158° F., but the dried yeasts are not so easily 
injured. 

6. Air is not essential to yeast fennentation, but greatly favors it. 

7. The total amount of starch, etc., lost as a result of yeast fermen- 
tation amounts to about 2 per cent of the flour used. 

8. The alcohol resulting from yeast fennentation assists in pro- 
ducing the cellular structure in bread, when it is vaporized during 
baking. Most of it escapes into the oven, but a small amount (about 
0.3 per cent) remains in the bread. In stale bread this is reduced to 
about 0.15 per cent. 

9. Hops are not a necessity in the preparation of yeast; they are 
not a food for the yeast plant, but rather check sour fermentations 
and permit the yeast to work. 

10. Lard is used in bread to prevent it from drying out and to 
give a superior flavor. If used in larger proportions tnan given it 
retards fermentation very perceptibly. 

11. The most favorable temperature for veast fermentation is 80° F. 
For preservation yeast shoula be kept below 55° F. 

(B) THE INGBEDIENTS USED IN THE PBEPABATION OF 
YEAST AND THE PBOPEBTIES OF EACH. 

CLASSIFICATION. 

32. (a) Dried yeast (or desiccated yeast), also sometimes erroneously 
called "dried compressed yeast," such as Magic Yeast, Hart's Yeast, 
Ralston's Yeast, Yeast Foam, etc. It is generally made in square 
or round shapes, of granular appearance, and sold in pasteboard 
packages. If hermetically sealed, it will keep in good condition 
for several months, and hence can be taken and used anywhere. It 
gives best results in the sponge and dough process. Its action will 
be greatly stimulated bv the addition of about 2 pounds of cane 
su^ar per 100 pounds of flour used, or better yet by 5 pounds of 
boiled and mashed potatoes placed directly in the sponge. 

Not being a pure culture lite the compressed yeast, it does not give 
the same uniform and reliable results. 



MANUAL FOR ARMT BAKERS. 27 

(6) Compressed yeast (sometimes called ''moist compressed 
yeast"), such as Corby's, Fleischmann's, Spielmann's, Riverside, 
and Red Star, in which a pure culture of the yeast plant is made ana 
mixed with a certain proportion of starch to give it a body. It is 
pressed into blocks about the size, shape, and color of butter bricks, 
except that it may have less color. It is very perishable and spoils 
quietly when removed from cold storage ana exposed to a warm 
temperature, and for this reason can be used at posts distant from the 
railroad and in the field only when careful arrangements are made 
for its cold storage. If wrapped in heavy paver when removed from 
cold storage, or if placed in a moderately cool place, a basement, a hole 
in damp ground, or a porous jar covered with wet cloths, compressed yeast 
will keep for a number of days. If well chilled, it can oe shipped 
almost any distance in a "fireless cooker." It may keep for weeks 
if subme^ed in cool water. When required, the water should be 
poured on and the desired amount spooned out. 

(c) Liquid yeasts. — Stock yeast (or flour yeast) and potato ferment 
(or potato yeast) are the most common yeasts prepared by post bakers. 
(See pars. 36 and 37. ) These are really old-fashioned yeasts, and are 
eenerally considered as out of date or behind the times, and they 
have been almost entirely displaced by the compressed yeasts, which 
are great savers of time and trouble and a boon to those who do not 
or can not make liquid yeast. Liquid yeasts are, however, a great 
stand-by of army bakers, who have to make bread under any and all 
conditions, and the ingredients for making them are always obtain- 
able through the commissary. 

Rice and 6can yeasts have their advantages, and formulas for their 
preparation are also given. (See par. 39.) 

It would be diflBcult to state positively exactly what process of 
making liquid yeast is the best. Yeasts that produce equally good 
results are made in accordance with methods which first appear to be 
quite different, but which in reality amount to practically the same 
tning. In order to make yeast, all we need is a suitable food, mois- 
ture, and the proper degree of warmth . Free access to the air assists in 
its growth, and if hops, salt, or ginger are added certain undesirable 
acid fermentations are checkea, thus preventing sourness in the 
bread and at the same time adding certain agreeable flavors. 

The starch used in the preparation of yeast food, whether from the 
potato or flour, is foimd to be in minute cells covered with a thin 



28 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

membrane. This membrane is in practice dissolved or ruptured by 
contact with scalding hot water (water about 160° F. is sufficiently 
hot) before the introduction of the yeast, which, in liquid forms, is 
killed by high temperature. It really makes no difference whether 
the potatoes are boiled and mashed or whether they are grated raw 
and then mixed in boiling hot water. 

Similarly the flour batter may be added to the hop tea, which 
should not boil thereafter; or, the batter may be made by adding 
sufficient hop tea to dry flour, and the remainder of the hop tea imme- 
diately thereafter, or when both it and the batter have cooled to a 
temperature below that at which the yeast plant is killed (preferably 
about 90® F.). The stock yeast should be added at this tune. The 
only advantage of the second method is that the preparation is re- 
duced to a working temperature in a short period. If ground malt is 
used in making the yeast, it should not be added to the latter until it 
has cooled to a temperature below 160° F. A higher temperature than 
this would kill its active element (Diastase, 226 note) which trans- 
forms starch into food for the yeast plant. 

If these simple facts are borne in mind, much of the mystery con- 
nected with the making of yeast is removed. It is the ignorant baker 
who condemns all methods of making yeast except that followed by 
himself. 

PROPERTIES OF THE INGREDIENTS USED IN MAKING LIQUID YBA8T. 

33. (a) Hops do not furnish food for the yeast plant, but they add 
a pleasant flavor. Their greatest usefulness, however, lies in the fact 
at they contain than element (called lupulin) which is active in 
checking the acetic and lactic fermentations that generally accom- 
pany the alcoholic fermentation which always takes place as an 
incident to the growth of the yeast plant. To extract this active 
agent (lupulin) from hops, place them in water (temperature imma- 
terial), and allow it to boil for about ten minutes (fifteen minutes in 
the case of very fresh hops). Longer boiling will extract a bitter 
flavor. One-half ounce to 1 ounce of fresh hops to each gallon of 
water should be used, or generally twice this amount of compressed 
hops according to their strength as found by experience. The re- 
sulting liquid IS commonly called * * hop tea. " If it is desired to make 
ttiQ wEit^t bread possible the hops should be strained out. II they 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 29 

are left in the solution they make it a trifle darker and small pieces 
of the hops may be found in the bread. For the purpose statea hops 
surpass any other ingredient used in the food for the yeast plant. 

The best hops are of a bright color, between yellow and green. 
Yellowish-brown hops are old and require less boiling. Brown hops 
are generally unfit lor use. 

(6) Salt. — Salt may also be added to check undesirable acid 
fermentations that may set up accidentally in the yeast. In the 
absence of hops salt is always used and generally in addition to 
them. The amount is from 1 to 2 tablespoonfuls to each gallon 
of water. Used in small quantities, salt renders fermentation more 
uniform, thus giving a more even grain to the loaf. In larger 
quantities salt would retard yeast fermentation. Salt is a necessity 
in bread making — not only on account of the property just cited 
but in order to make the bread more palatable. It is generally 
added when making the dough, about 3 ounces to each gallon 
of water used in making the bread. The quantity of salt should 
never exceed li per cent to 2 per cent of the weight of the flour used. 

(c) Potatoes. — Chemists tell us that the potato furnishes the best 
form of starch for the growth of the yeast plant. Yeast made from 
it ripens quickly but does not keep so long as flour yeast. The 
bread resulting is light and sweet and does not dry out or sour so 
Quickly as that from other yeasts. Old potatoes contain more sugar 
tnan new ones and should be used in the preparation of this yeast. 

As a matter of economy of time and material the potatoes may 
be washed clean and boiled with their jackets on and nnely mashed 
in a portion of the water in which they were boiled, the remainder 
being added later. If this water is much discolored clean boiled 
water should be used. To produce equally good yeast that will make 
whiter bread the potatoes should be pared beiore boiling. Some 
bakers pare the potatoes and grate them and afterwards mix in 
boiling not water. The final result is the same — the starch cells 
are broken and the starch is exposed to the action of the yeast. 

((/) Flour. — Flour is used in the preparation of yeast — to furnish 
starch, albuminous matter (gluten), and phosphates for the growth 
of the yeast plant. It should be strong in gluten — a deficiency in 
starch should be made up by the addition of sugar. Cane or malt 
sugar is best. The granules of starch are bound together into cells 
by means of fibrous bands. To rupture these cells and expose the 



30, MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

starch to the action of the yeast the application of hot water is neces- 
sary. This process is generally called ** scalding" tie flour. 

(e) Malt. — Although barley, oats, wheat, com, and rice are all 
capable of being ''malted" as the expression goes, the term malt 
is generally applied to barley m-alt, and it is this kind that is used in 
connection with making yeast. It is the crushed barley that has 
first been allowed to germinate (grow) in warm, moist rooms of even 
temperature for two or three weeks, the grain then being dried at a 
moderately low temperature and crushed. Malt contains certain 
elements (diastase and peptase) which induce a change of starch 
and gluten into other forms more favorable to the growth of the 
yeast plant, and the formation of alcohol and carbonic gas incident 
to its growth. (See par. 22, b note.) As noted above, oats can be 
malted and used the same as barley, but generally facilities are not 
at hand in a post bakery to **malt" either one, and as a substitute 
oats may be ground moderately fine in a coffee mill, soaked in luke- 
warm water for an hour or more, and then quickly dried or lightly 
parched in an oven. If treated in this manner thev will not contain 
the active elements found in malted grain, but lor the purpose of 
preventing scalded flour from lumping they will do very well. 
Even bran is good for this purpose, tnough it will be of little or no 
use as a food for the yeast plant. In practice we also get good 
results by scalding the flour and malt together, but it is probable 
that the flour and malt mixture drops below 160° F. before the ele- 
ments referred to have been greatly injured. 

(/) Halt extract. — ^Malt extract contains these important elements 
(diastase and peptase^ in a more concentrated form, and by diastase 
companies several different grades of it have been so prepared as to 
be best suited to the different qualities of flour that may oe used in 
bread making. The quantity used depends upon the particular 
brand and strength. It is used as a substitute for sugar and to give 
an agreeable flavor to the bread. Its general use in the army is not 
recommended. 

(g) Sugar. — During the growth of the yeast plant sugar is decom- 
posed into alcohol and carbonic gas. When the bubbles of gas rise 
to the surface we say that the yeast has begun to **work." Sugar 
may be used as an ingredient of the mixture prepared for the growth 
of the yeast plant; if so, cane sugar, malt sugar (or maltose), or 
glucose IS best. However, it generally appears in the yeast food first 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 31 

in the form of starch. During the process of fermentation it is 
transformed into sugar and then decomposed into alcohol and car- 
bonic gas. (See pars. 6, 7, and 27-c.) 

(h) Water. — Fresh soft water should be used in the preparation of 
yeasts and doughs as far as practicable. Long boiling of water 
removes the air which promotes fermentation. 

Salt water (that is, sea water) may be used in the preparation of 
doughs and sponges, no salt being added to the mixture. 

Hard water retards the working of yeast. 

Note: Porcelain and granite u^are.— Porcelain or granite ware shoald, if practicable, 
be used in boiling bops and potatoes, as tinware or iron will cause tbe bop tea or 
potato water to take on a darker color, and the bread produced will not be as white 
as it otherwise would be. Clean hard wood, glass, or porcelain-lined receptacles 
should be used for yeast, as otherwise certain chemical action might take place that 
would either darken the solution or spoil it altogether. 

34. B6siim6. — For the growth of the yeast plant we must have 
certain albuminous matters and phosphates (see par. 29), and in addi- 
tion starch, which is transformed into sugar and converted into 
alcohol and carbonic gas, incident to the growth of the yeast plant. 
Boiling-hot water must be added to the mixture in order to rupture 
the starch cells and expose the starch used in fermentation. After 
the solution has coolea to about 90° F. we have a proper food for 
the development of the yeast plant, and fermentation may take 
place spontaneously if the solution is left undisturbed in a moderate 
temperature. In this case '*head yeast" would be formed, but if a 
yeast is introduced to start the fermentation the solution is said to 
be ^*stockedy'* and the yeast resulting is called "stock yeast," or 
"potato ferment,'* according to the ingredients used. The livelier 
the yeast introduced the stronger wilf be the yeast which results. 
In addition to the food for the yeast, hops, salt, or ginger should be 
introduced to check the acid fermentations that would otherwise 
set up and spoil the yeast. Many different formulas for preparing 
the yeast bring about the same result. 

(E) BECIPES. 

35. Head yeast (maiden yeast or virgiii yeast). — Ingredients (6 
quarts). 5 quarts of water; J ounce fresh hops (see par. 33-a); 10 
ounces of malt (see par. 33-e); IJ pounds of flour (see par. 33-d). 

Put the water on the stove; add the hops, and boil for about eight 
or ten minutes. This preparation is known as "hop tea.'' Mix the 

20085—10 3 



32. MANUAL FOR ABMY BAKERS. 

dry flour and malt together in a keg or other suitable receptacle; 
add sufficient boiling-hot "hop tea" to make a medium thick paste 
and mix well. (See par. 33-a.) Strain the remainder of the hop 
tea " into a separate jar or keg and set both aside until they have 
cooled to about 80° or 90° F., then pour the "hop tea" into the flour 
and malt mixture. Set in a warm, even temperature; in about 
twenty-four hours spontaneous fermentation will have set up and 
foam will be seen to gather on the surface, a deep light scum will 
rise and a strong beer odor will be present. In about forty-eight 
hours the scum will begin to settle and soon thereafter will disap- 
pear from the surface of the liquid. The yeast is ready for use as 
soon as it begins to settle. It should now be set in a cool place, 
where it will keep from eight to ten days. 

Head yeast is developed spontaneously from wild yeast (th^t is, 
yeast spores found floating aboiit in the air) and is generally pre- 
pared only as a starter for a stronger yeast. It may, however, be 
used directly in the dough or sponge the same as stock yeast. If 
other yeasts are at hand there is no necessity for its preparation. 
It is possible to get good results by omitting the hops and malt, but 
in case they are omitted about IJ ounces of sugar and 1 ounce of 
salt per gallon of water should be added. 

36. Stock yeast (or flour yeast). — Ingredients (7 gallons): 5 gal- 
lons of water; 2 ounces of fresh hops (see par. 33-a); 2 J pounds of malt 
(see par. 33-e) ; 5 pounds of flour (see par. 33-d) ; 3 quarts of head yeast. 

Prepared in exactly the same manner sts head yeast, except that 
the mixture is stocked (head yeast is added) when the cooled hop 
tea is added to the flour and malt mixture. On account of having 
the head yeast as a starter, this preparation will begin to ferment at 
once and it will be ready for use in about twenty-four hours. 

In the absence of hops and malt, salt and sugar should be sub- 
stituted as noted in paragraph 35. 

Stock yeast may be used directly in the sponge or dough in the 
proportion noted in paragraph 52-i, but its chief Junction is in stocking 
preparation for making potato ferment y though in its absence, any 
er yeast would do as a starter. 

37. Potato ferment (or potato yeast). — Ingredients (30 gallons): 
gallons of water; 28 pounds of sound, well-matured potatoes (par. 
c); or 14 pounds of desiccated potatoes, or 9 pounds of potato flour; 
ounds of flour (par. 33-d); 8 quarts of stock yeast, or 8 ounces of 
ipressed yeast, or 20 ounces of dried yeast. 




MANUAL FOB ARMY BAKEBS. 33 

Wash the potatoes thoroughly and let boil in about 6 ^Uons 
of water untu well done (par. 33-c). Drain off the water into 2 
buckets. Put the potatoes in a clean barrel and mash well, then add 
5 pounds of flour and 1 bucket of the potato water (to break the 
starch cells of the flotu"), and mix thoroughly. (If using desiccated 
potatoes, place in a boiler with sufficient water to coyer them and 
boil until thoroughly done; if using potato flour it is thoroughly 
mixed with the wheat flotu* and scalded.) Add the remainder of 
the potato water and about 18 gallons of fresh water at such a tem- 
peratiu*e that the mixture will be about 85° or 90° F.; add 8 quarts 
of stock yeast (or the quantity of compressed yeast or dried yeast 
noted above) and stir for a few minutes. Let it remain undis- 
turbed in a warm, even temperature. The preparation will begin 
to ferment at once and in a few minutes bubbles will be seen rising 
to the surface. In about six or eight hours the scum will begin to 
settle and the yeast will be ready for use. Always stir well arid 
strain through a colander before imng. Set in a cool place and it will 
keep from five to seven days. 

Potato ferment J or potato yeast (see par. 36) as it is sometimes called, 
produces as good bread as can be made, but it works quickly (see 
pars. 52 g and h, 53 c and d) in the sponge or straight dough and 
must be carefully watched. In making it, great cleanliness is neces- 
sary, as acid fermentations may set up from obscure causes and pro- 
duce sour bread. (See par. 70.) It is best to have two sets of 
utensils, in order that one set may be thoroughly cleaned while the 
other is in use. Potato ferment is the form in which liquid yeast is 
generally used in making bread and generally it should be made fresh 
each day for use the next. 

38. Tuba de nipa, as it is commonly called by the Filipinos, 
furnishes an excellent substitute for stock yeast. It is the sap col- 
lected from the nipa palm. The sap, having been placed in a deep 
can with a small exposure, is set in the sun for about twelve hours 
and allowed to ferment. A thick scum forms on the surface and 
the tuba is removed to a cool place where it will keep for several 
days. The scum should be allowed to remain on the tuba as a pro- 
tection against contamination. 

Fermented tuba de nipa is used as stock yeast and in the same 
proportions. 



34 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

(A) CAPTAIN BENNISON'S INDIAN YEAST (TOBEZOPOBE 

YEAST). 

39. In handling this yeast it is first necessary to prepare a 
head yeast by using ground rice.a At the end of forty-eight hours 
it is ready for use in a so-called ** sponge." After the "sponge" is 
ripe a "renewed yeast" is made, using a certain amount of the so- 
called "sponge" as a starter. Thereafter the ground rice is not 
used, but a "sponge" ia set from a "renewed yeast" made daily. 

It is recommended that three iron kegs be provided, if possible, in 
order that the "renewed yeast" may be three days old when used, 
the "renewed yeast" being started each day (though a "renewed 
yeast" started at 6 a. m. may be used at 10 p. m. the same day). 
Where iron kegs have not been obtained, beer kegs have been found 
satisfactory, if provided with an iron bung in place of a wooden 
plug, which would be blown out on account or the gas pressure. 
The rice may be ground in a coffee mill, but boiled nee nas been 
found to work equally well. 

Generally it is best to set the so-called "sponge" at about 10 p. m. 
The dough may then be made up at about 6 a. m., and the bread 
will be ready to bake at about 10 a. m. In the absence of rice, 
beans are said to be a good substitute, though from our experiments 
yeasts made from them are apt to sour more quickly. 

To prepare the head yeast (for a 100-pouna dough) . — IJ pounds of 
rice (or beans); ] J pounds brown sugar (native Philippine preferred) ; 
IJ gallons water, about 80® F. Mix the ingredients well, pour into 
a keg, and cork down tightly. Shake every hour or so— the more 
the better. In forty-eight hours it will be ready for use. 

Setting the ^^ sponge." — Sift the flour (100 pounds) into the trough. 
Hollow out the center and pour in the yeast and gradually mix in 
enough flour from the sides to make a thin batter. This so-called 
"sponge" should be ready in about eight hours. 

(B) BENNISON'S FOBHTJLA, MODIFIED SO AS TO USE WHEAT 

FLOTJB IN THE PLACE OF BICE. 

Take 2 pounds of brown cane sugar, 2 pounds of wheat flotu", and 
2 gallons of water, about 80° F. Mix thoroughly and allow to stand 

a In recent experiments equally as good and even better results have been 
attained by substituting wbeat flour for the rice flour here used. 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 35 

for about forty-eight hours, when it will be ready for use. (Uee a 
closed jug, and do not shake.) 

Sift 50 pounds of ilour into the trough, and hollow out in the center, 
poiuing in the yeast. Gradually mix in enough flour from the sides 
to make a thin batter, and then dust lightly with flour. 

Let stand for about nine hours. 

Dip out 4 pints of the yeast for renewing the process, and then 
proceed to make the dough from the remainder by adding 10 ounces 
each of salt, sugar, and lard, and about 2 gallons of water, so as to 
make a slack dough. Allow to prove for about three hours and 
mold into loaves, aflowing them to prove for about two hours. Then 
bake. 

Renewing the yeast. — ^To renew the yeast, mix the sponge dipped 
out with 2 pounds of cane sugar, 2 pounds of wheat flour, and 2 gal- 
lons of water, and let stand in a temperature of 80° F. for about 
fourteen hours, when it will be ready for use. 

The amount of yeast prepared is sufficient for a 100-pound dou^h. 
In preparing it dip out the 4 pints of sponge each time for renewing 
the yeast, which need not be started D'esh so long as the process is 
continuously used. 

This process has given excellent results — far better than ^^ Indian 
yeast" proper. The renewed yeast seemed to improve from day to 
day when the process was used continuously 

{Renewiiig the yeast.— yJtiGD. the "sponge" Is ripe, dip out IJ pints; mixing It 
with 1| pounds of brown sugar (native) and IJ pounds of flour, to which 1} gallons 
of lukewarm water has been added. Pour this mixture into the iron keg. Cork 
down and shake well— the more the better. This yeast should be ready in about 
eight hours, but, as before stated, will be better if not used for two or three days.) 

Making the dough. — The "sponge " being ripe and a portion dipped 
out for the ** renewed yeast," the dough is made up the same as usual. 

Advantages. — ^The advantages claimed for this yeast are that, on 
account of the benefit derived from shaking, it can be transported 
by pack or otherwise. It has kept as long as sixteen days. ll is 
saia to be unaffected by climate, thunder, or ordinary variations 
of temperature. It is very cheap, and the ingredients are generally 
obtainable. The results obtained in the Tropics have been quite 
uniformly successful, and its use has been greatly appreciated where 
other yeasts could not be obtained. For unknown reasons the 
results obtained in the United States have not generally been equally 
as good. 



36 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

40. Driedyeaat. — Dried yeast is very easy to manufacture, and can be 
made with facility by any baker. If made from the potato ferment, 
the results obtained at tne training schools have been better than 
those obtained when using the commercial product, probably for 
the reason that such yeast is fresh or of known age. 

(a) Dried yeast from potato ferment, — Make a potato ferment ac- 
cording to formula given, usin^ compressed yeast as a starter in 
preference to stock yeast or dned yeast. After working pour off 
the supernatant liquid, disturbing the sediment as little as possible. 
Take IJ gallons of. sediment, 13 pounds of com meal, and 1 ounce of 
cooking soda, and mix into a stiff dough. Shape into cakes about 
half an inch thick and 2J inches square, drying at a temperature of 
about 60® F. or less. 

This mixture makes about 15J pounds of dried yeast, and it has 
been found to be superior to any purchased on the market. 

(6) Dried yeast from stock yeast. — Make a stock yeast according to 
formula given. After working, pour off the supernatant liquid, dis- 
turbing the sediment as little as possible. Take 1 quart of sediment, 
2 J pounds of com meal, and J pound of flour, and mix into a stiff 
dough. Shape into cakes and dry as above. 

This mixture makes about 3 pounds of dried yeast of excellent 
quality, but hardly equal to that prepared as in the preceding 
paragraph. 

(c) Dried yeast from a sponge (Dunne's formula). — Take one-half 
gallon of water and 6 ounces of hops, boil for fifteen minutes and 
strain through a colander. Add 12 ounces of su^r and 3 quarts of 
potatoes, peeled and sliced, to the hoj) tea, and boil until the potatoes 
fall to pieces. Then beat with a wire whip until smooth, add 12 
ounces of flour, by mixing to the above while it is still hot enough 
to scald it — that is, above 160° F. 

Start work at 3 p. m. About 8 p. m. (or after the mixture has 
coojed to below 90° F.^ stock with one-fourth pound of compressed 
yeast, adding 1 pint oi lukewarm water, or substitute 8 ounces of 
dried yeast, adding 1 quart of water. If practicable, use a 6-gallon 
crock. Take a clean brick and stand on end in the yeast, setting 
a saucer of water upon it. Cover the crock with a tight lid — the 
idea being to produce a very moist atmosphere . Set in a temperature 
of about 80° F. until it rises and falls once — say, about ten hours. 
Then add flour, making a soft sponge, adding no more water at this 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 37 

time. In from three-fourths of an hour to one hour this will rise and 
fall. Then add more flour, making a slightly stiff er sponge. Tnis will 
rise and fall a little quicker than before. Twice more rej)eat this 
process of adding flour, each time making a little stiffer mixttu-e — 
the last dough being very stiff. 

After the last proving rofi out the dough to about one-eighth of 
an inch in thickness (so that it will dry quickly), dusting with com 
meal. Cut into pieces about 2 inches square. 

Dry at a temperature of from 50® to 60° F., spreading the squares 
of dough on boards that have been well dusted with com meal, 
and turn the c? kes once a day. If a good current of dry air is allowed 
to pass over the drying mixture, it will be ready for use or storage 
in about three days. 



UANITAL FOR ARUY BAKERS. 



Chapter III. 
BEEAD. 

GENERAL CLASSES. 

41. There are two general classes of bread: 

(a) Fermented bread. — This includes all breads made with yeasty 
such as issue bread, graham bread, rye bread, and all rolls made with 
yeast. 

(6) Unfermented l)read. — ^This includes all breads made without 
yeast, such as aerated bread, hard-tack, crackers, baking powder 
niflcuits, etc. 

GENEBAL METHODS. 

42. There are two general methods of makine bread: 

(a) By the sponge and dough process, in which a sponae is first 
set, by using one-half of the flour, about four-sevenths of the water, 
and all of the yeast, and incorporating all the other ingredients in a 
second operation some time later, when the dough is made. The 
sour-dough process, or left-over process, is a modification of the sponge 
and dough process. (See par. 54.) 

(6) By the straight-dough process, in which all of the ingredients 
are incorporated in one long process of mixing and kneading rather 
than in two short ones, as in the sponge and dough process. 

43. General remarks. — In preparing the sponge or dough the 
temperature of the ingredients used and of the bakery should aver- 
age about 80° F. (about 78° F. in summer and 82° F. in winter). 
Even experienced bakers should take the temperature of the flour 
and atmosphere with the thermometer and regulate the temperature 
of the water so that the sum of the three temperatures will be very 
close to 240° F. We must, however, also consider what effect the 

39 



40 MANUAL ^OR ARMY BAKERS. 

outside temperature may have upon that of the bakery during the 

E roving. If the bakery is likely to be chilled, the sponge should 
e set a little warmer than usual; if the nights are very warm, the 
sponge should be set with cooler water. Sometimes it may be nec- 
essary to add small chunks of broken ice. Very hot water should 
not be used, as it will kill the yeast. (Pars. 31-36.) 

If the flour is cold, it must be left in a warm place lor a time before 
using. Several hours before it is time to set the sponge the flour 
may be sifted and spread in the open trough and stirred and turned 
over from time to time, to expose all portions of it to the warm atmos- 
phere. 

Considerable heat is generated as a result of fermentation during 
the proving of a dough or sponge, and the trough should be well 
covered to retain this neat; and in addition, in the case of the dough, 
to prevent currents of air from circulating over the surface, as this 
would cause the formation of a crust unless the dough has been well 
greased. 

44. Great care must he exercised in mixing in order to distribute the 
yeast equally throughout the sponge, to break up any lumps that 
may have formed, and to allow the air to come into contact with all 
parts of the mixture, as the presence of the oxygen (in the afr) assists 
m fermentation. 

Careful and thorough kneading of dough and molding of loaves rup- 
tures all large bubbles that have formed and further distributes the yea^t 
to every part and insures an even texture. Careless and indifferent 
work or insufficient kneading are apparent to the careful observer in 
examining the crumb of tne bread produced. It will be "coarse 
grained" m appearance and of very ununiform cellular structure. 

45. If the dough has been properly handled and baked, the tops 
of the loaves will present a nicely rounded and browned appearance 
and the crumb a uniform cellular structure. The color of the 
crust is regulated by the amount of sugar present and the tempera- 
ture of the oven. A pale loaf results from an absence of sugar or a 
very "slow oven." 

Sometimes the tops of the loaves present a flat appearance. This 
may arise from various causes. 

Pirst, if the yeast of the sponge is young, the loaves will be flat 
on top, large holes will be observed for an inch or so underneath the 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 41 

top crust, the crust will present rather a reddish-brown appearance, 
and the crumb will be oi^ dull, grayish color. 

Second, if the flat top is accompanied by a good color and normal 
cellular structure, the dough was too soft. 

Third y if the top is flat and dents and wrinkles appear in it, the dough 
was overproved and the crumb will be dark and crumbly. A coarse 
cellular structure is noted, and streaks of dough may result from a 
shaking down through careles^handling of the pans before the 
framework is fixed. ^ 

A long fermentation produces certain acids that act directly on 
the gluten, weakening the cellular walls and rendering them deli- 
cate and easily ruptured. 

46. When a new brand or grade of flour has been received, or if 
there is doubt as to the quality or strength of yeast used, or if the 
bakers are inexperienced, no attempt should be made to turn out 
large batches of bread or to use the straight-dough process at once. 
A small sponge should be set, as any yeast, and especially a weak 
one, will work better in a moderately thin sponge than in a straight 
dough, and if the batch of bread is ruined the loss of flour will not 
be so great as it otherwise would. 

47. Generally when using the dried yeast, or any yeast of doubtful 
strength, the sponge and dough system should be used. It is also 
a great convenience to set a sponge in case graham bread, rye bread, 
rolls, etc., are to be baked. 

48. In civilian bakeries the straight-dough process is used almost 
exclusively at the present time, and great care is exercised in main- 
taining an even temperature of about 80° F. for all proving of sponges 
and doughs. It is said of this process that it requires stronger flour 
and that a bread of finer cellular structure results; that the bread 
will keep longer and that it has a finer flavor, and further that a 
greater number of rations is produced. After comparing the bread 
produced by .this process witli that produced (in which the sponge 
nas proved in nine hours or leas in a temperature of about 80° F.) 
by tne sponge and dough process, we are of the opinion that the 
differences noted are largely a matter of fancy, and tnat for our pur- 
pose it may be considered that equally good results are obtained by 
either metnod, and that whether the one process or the other is used 
should be rather a matter of convenience than otherwise. Bread 
can be produced in a much shorter time by this method and con- 



UAHTTAl. POK ARUT BAEKBa, 



a the post bakery it may be used along with the sponge 
and dou^h procese in urder that several rune of bread ma^ be made 
without interference in the ovone, and the work be done in eeaaon- 
able houTB. 



DOUGH UIXER. 

la working position. 

49. TBe tponge and dough prorena is, from long habit, the one most 
commonly used in poBt bakoripB. In following thin method we 
first take one-half of the flour to be used in baking, all of the yeast, 
and eauugh wator to make a batter of auch eliftncsB that it will 
scarcely drip from tJie hand when taken up. Thia mixture (called 
the epoTige) le set in an even temperature of about 80° F. to riae or 



DOnOH UIXER. 
Id tilted positkin lor diunplog tbe dough itltf r kncadlog. 

(all an inch or two without detriment, depending upon the depth 
of the troujch. If not dixlurbed it may rise and fall two or three 
times, but if thin takes place the dough JBliabletosouT. (See par. TO.) 
Tbie is especially true with any yeaet except a pure culture. (See 



44 MANUAL FOB ABMY BAKEBS. 

50. Kneading the dougli. — Lard, and water in which salt and 
sugar have been dissolved, are now added to the sponge, which is 
made into a thin batter. After the sponge is well broKen up and 
no stringy portions remain, the remainder of the flour is added and 
the whole is mixed into a stiff elastic mass which may be picked up 
and thrown or carried about at will. One end of the trough is care- 
fully cleaned with a scraper, brushed and then greased with a small 
quantity of lard. Portions of dough, weighing about 30 poimds. 
are now cut from the general mass and kneaded until the desired 
degree of stiffness is attained, and are then piled in the end of the 
trough just cleaned. The dough should about half fill that part of 
the trough occupied by it. The partition board is now placed 
against tne dough and is held in position by a sack of flour or other 
heavy mass. The top of the dough is greased to prevent the forma- 
tion of a crust, and it is again set in a warm, even temperature to 
prove. When it has about doubled in size it will begin to fall and 
should be punched down to free it from the large bubbles of gas that 
may have lormed within. As soon as it has risen again to tne same 
height as before it should be molded into loaves as fast as possible. 

51. Oeneral rule for amount of ingredients used in bread making. — 
The following general rule should be learned. For each 100 pounds 
of flour used in baking, about 7 gallons of liquid will be required, no 
matter what process is used. If the sponge and dough process, four- 
sevenths of it will be used with one-half of the flour in the sponge 
and three-sevenths in preparing the dough. If the straight dough 
process, all is used at once. Earn gallon of liquid used will take about 
3 ounces of salt, S ounces of sugar, and 3 ounces of lard. In setting a 
sponge or making a straight dough, 1 ounce of compressed yeast or 
2 ounces of dried yeast per gallon of water used at that time is the 
amount generally used, but the times of proving vary inversely 
with the amount of yeast, and the following table should be 
consulted: 



MANUAL FOB ARMY BAKERS. 



45 



52. Recipes for sponge and dough process. 



Rations of bread desired . 
Total flour used, 

pounds 

Total water used, 

gallons 




SPONGE. 

Ingredients: 

Flour pounds.. 

Water gallons.. 

(a) Compressed 
yeast, ounces.. 

DOUGH 

(Add to above). 

Ingredients: 

Flour pounds.. 

Water gallons.. 

Salt pounds.. 

Sugar.. do 

Or Malt extract.. pints.. 

Lard (or com- 
pound) . .pounds . . 



250 500 



200 '400 



7 14 



25 
2 



50 
4 



28 



100 200 



8 
6 



16 
12 



25 50 100 200 



l-i 3 (5 

« li n 

il 1 , 2 

8 li 2i 



12 
5 
5 
4 



5 



Time in 
sponge. 



9 hours. 



Time in 
dough. 



Remarks. 



2J hours.. 



Results excellent. 
This formula is 
recommended for 
general use in the 
sponge and 
dough process. 



If instead of compressed yeast being used in the proportion given 
in the preceding recipe, the following kinds and quantities of yeasts 
be substituted, the times of proving in the sponge and dough, will 
be about as noted. In summer the amount used may be reduced by 
about one- fourth. 



46 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 



Ratioiu of bread desired . 
Total dour used, 

pounds 

Total liquid used, 

gallons 

— ■■ 

SPONGE. 

Ingredients: 

Flour x)ounds. . 

Water gallons. . 

(&) And compressed 
yeast ounces.. 

(c) Or dried yeast (com- 

mercial)... ounces. . 

(d) Or dried yeast (from 

X)otato ferment), 
ounces 

(e) Or dried yeast (from 

stock yeast), 
ounces 

(/) Or dried yeast 
(Dunne's recipe), 
ounces 

o((7) Or potato ferment, 
gallons 

a{h) Or potato ferment, 
gallons 

a(i) Or stock yeast, 
gallons 



65 


125 


250 


500 


\ 


, 


50 


100 


200 


400 


Time in 
sponge. 


Time in 
dough. 


H 


7 


14 


28 






25 


50 


100 


200 






2 


4 


8 


16 


10 hours. 


2} hours. 




2 


4 


8 








8 


16 


32 


...do 


...do 




8 
8 
8 


16 
16 
16 


32 
32 
32 


do 


do 


, ..do 


. . .do 


9 hours.. 


...do 




2 


4 


8 


4} hours. 


3 hours. 


n 


3 


6 


12 


3 J hours. 


2^ hours. 


i 


1 


2 


4 


10 hours. 


3 hours. . 



Remarks. 



(Results not as cer- 
\ tain as with (a). 



Results very good. 

Results excellent. 

Do. 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 



Results 
good. 



fair to 



a Total amount of liquid used is as given in paragraph 51, i. e., about 7 gallons per 
100 pounds of flour. 

Note.— For the method of handling Indian yeast (Rennison's formula) see para- 
agraph 39. 

Under no circumstances should a sponge be allowed more than 
ten hours to ripen — a limit of nine hour^ is better, and for such long 
fermentations only a compressed or dried yeast should be made. A 
sponge set with potato ferment should not be allowed more than six 
hours to ripen. A longer period of fermentation with this yeast is 
apt to proauce sour bread. Short fermentations in the sponge are 
generally productive of much better results than the longer fermen- 
tations which were formerly so common. In any case where dried 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 



47 



yeast is used a more active and reliable fermentation will result if 
about 5 pounds of potatoes, boiled and mashed through a colander, 
are added to each 100 pounas of flour used in a sponge. 

53. Recipe for straight-dough process. 



Rations of bread desired. 



Ingredients: 

Flour pounds. . 

Water gallons. . 

(a) Compressed yeast. ounces . . 

Salt pounds. . 

Sugar do 

Or malt extract pints.. 

Lard (or compound ). pounds . . 



65. 



50 
3i 
3 

I 
I 



125. 



100 
7 
6 

u 

H 
1 

li 



250. 



200 

14 

12 
2i 
2i 
2 

2i 



500. 



400 
28 

a24 
5 
5 
4 
5 



Time in 
dough. 



Remarks. 



9 hours. 



Results excellent. 



a Sixteen ounces when using mixer. 

If, instead of compressed yeast being used in the proportions given 
in the preceding recipe, the following kinds and quantities of yeast 
be substituted, the times of proving in the dougn will be about as 
noted: 



Rations of bread desired 


65. 

3i 

8 
2 

1 


125. 

7 

16 
4 
3 
5 

2 


250. 

14 

32 
8 
6 

10 
4 


500. 

28 

64 
16 
12 
20 

8 


Time in 
dough. 


Remarks. 


Ingredients: 

Cb) Water gallons. . 

And compressed yeast, 
ounces 


>5 hours... 

je hours... 
>7 J hours.. 


Results excellent. 


(c) Or water gallons. . 

And potato ferment do 

(d) Or water do 

And potato fennent do 


Do. 
Do. 



Generally speaking, no yeast other than a compressed yeast or a 
potato ferment is recommended in making straight doughs. In case 
of necessity, however, dried yeast may be used in double the amount 

20685—10 4 



48 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

indicated in the sponge-and-dough process. To stimulate fermenta- 
tion, an additional amount of potatoes, about 5 pounds per 100 
pounds of flour (see par. 52), should be added or about 2 pounds of 
cane sugar to each 100 pounds of flour used at the time. 

54. (a) Left-over dough process. — Take 40 pounds of dough from a 
batch about to be mol(iea into loaves and keep in a cool place (pref- 
erably a refrigerator) for the next batch of bread (up to twenty-four 
hours). Mix this 40 pounds of dough with 26 pounds of flour and 
about 14 quarts of water at about 80° F. into a sponge and allow 
to prove as in the regular sponge-and-dou^h process. (See par. 43.) 

When ripe make into a dough by adding 14 quarts of water, IJ 
pounds of sugar, IJ pounds of lard, IJ pounds of salt, and 68 pounds 
of flour. 

This will produce about 132 rations of bread after keeping out 40 
pounds of dough for the next batch. 

By this process results have continuously been attained unex- 
celled by any other method used in the bakery. If impossible to 
Preserve the left-over dough in a cool place, the same method may 
e pursued, but the results will approach those obtained in the 
sour-dough process. 

(h) Sour-aough process (a second-rate method). — Take 20 pounds of 
flour, 2 gallons of water at about 80° F., and 3 ounces of dried yeast. 
Mix into a sponge and let stand for forty-eight hours. Then add 30 
pounds of flour, 5 ounces of salt, 5 ounces of sugar, 5 ounces of lard, 
2 ounces of baking soda (if practicable), and 6 c^uarts of water, 
and mix into a dou^h. Let nse once only. This will require about 
three hours. Mold into loaves and continue according to the regular 
method. 

Set aside 10 pounds of the dough for twelve hours. Then make a 
sponge, using 8 quarts of water and 20 pounds of flour, and allow to 
nse over night until ripe, and add flour and ingredients as above. 

This method should be resorted to only in case yeast can not be 
obtained in sufficient quantity. The results are not as satisfactory 
as with yeast, and a sour dough should be started anew every three 
or four days to get best results. 

To make a straight dough. — Let the left-over dough stand for twenty- 
four hours; then make a straight dough by adding 14 quarts of water, 
50 pounds of flour, 5 ounces of salt, 5 ounces of sugar, and 5 ounces of 
lara. Let prove for four or five hours (until ripe) and mold into 
loaves, retaining sufficient dough for a new starter. 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 49 

55. Remember that the most favorable temperature for the work- 
ing of yeaflt and proving of sponge and dough is about 80° F. (say, 
78° in simimer and 82° in winter). Fermentations at higher tem- 
peratures promote acidity and ruin the flavor of bread — the same 
may be said of long fermentation. Bakers should regulate the length 
of lermentation in a sponge or straight dough so as to secure the 
best results and not solely to suit their personal convenience. 

56. Scaling. — It is customary, especially in garrison, to make 
issue of bread in 2-ration loaves — i. e., in loaves that will weigh 36 
ounces when twenty-four hours old. Single ration loaves should 
wekh 18 ounces. A 2-ration loaf will dry out from 3 to 3i ounces 
while baking and before issue, and this must be taken into consid- 
eration in scaling the dough before molding. We have found 
that a loaf scaled at 39i ounces weighed 37.2 ounces when withdrawn 
from the oven and 36 ounces when twenty-four hours old. 

In fast scaling, overweight is the rule. In addition a certain 
amount of moisture is lost during the process of fermentation and 

grior to scaling, so that each 2-ration loaf may be considered as 
aving resultea from about 40 ounces of ingredients used in making 
the loaf; each ration from 20 ounces. 

Taking the ordinary formula as given in paragraph 51-a, for each 
100 pounds of flour used we would attain the following weight of 
ingredients: 

Pounds. 

Flour 100 

Water, 7 gallons, 8 pounds per gallon 56 

Sugar, salt, lard, and yeast 4 

Total 160 or 2,560 ounces. 

Dividing 2,560 by 20 we get 128 — the approximate number of 
rations baked from each 100 pounds of flour. The number should 
differ but two or three from this amount. Each ration would then 
require 12^ ounces of flour and 5^ ounces of water and other ingre- 
dients. 

While as a rule the scales should be set at about 39^ ounces, this 
can be determined accurately only by experiment with the par- 
ticular kind of flour in use, and sheets of bread should be weigned 
frequently to see that the scaling of loaves is properly regulated. 



50 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

There is a difference in flours as to the amount of water that will 
be taken up in the sponge and dough and in the corresponding loss 
while baking and before issue. This difference in flour is due to 
the amount of moisture it already contains, and to the character 
and quality of the starch and gluten. Starch is the great absorber 
of water, but retention of moisture depends upon the quality of the 
gluten. 

57. Molding. — The loaves should be molded until firm and free 
from large gas pockets. The loaf should retain its form until laid in 
the pan and not gradually spread out into a shapeless mass. 

58. Proving. — After the loaves have been carefully formed they 
are placed in bake pans- -the number and arrangement depending 
upon the size and snape of the pans. If too few loaves are placed 
in a pan, they will have a low ''squatty " appearance as thougn they 
had not risen properly; if too many, they will be high and narrow, 
and although they will be of uniform porosity near the top and bottom, 
large blow holes are apt to appear in the center, where fermentation 
has continued, without escape for the gas, after the baking elsewhere 
is well under way. 

It has already been noted that up to a certain temperature proving 
is accelerated by heat. The temperature of the room being greater 
from the floor toward the ceiling, the pans first filled should be 
placed on the bottom shelf of the proof rack (or proof box) and the 
others on the next higher shelves as they are filled. 

59. Proof room and proof box. — In the larger bakeries, iron racks, 
mounted on rollers, are provided to receive the pans as they are 
made ready for the proof room. The proof room^ free from drafts 
and heated to a temperature of about 80° F. by free steam, is made 
ready to receive the racks which are wheeled into it. These facili- 
ties are not found in the smaller bakeries and proof boxes are provided 
instead. The boxes should be practically air tight, and, if proof 
racks are provided, of proper size to receive them. If proof racks 
are not provided boxes should be made with shelves of narrow slats 
to permit free circulation for such steam as may be generated within. 
Often a pan of water is placed on the bottom shelf, and when the 
proof box is filled hot bricks are dropped into it to generate steam 
which should be present during the proving of the loaves. If gaa 
is provided, a better method is to let the jet play upon the bottom 
gf the pan, which is conveniently exposed oeneatn the box. If 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 51 

steam is not provided, the tops of the loaves should be greased to 
prevent the formation of a crust. (See par. 90.) 

If the pans have been properly filled, the loaves should generally 
occupy aoout one-half their depth; when they have about doubled 
in size, i. e., when they are about on a level with the top of the pan, 
they are ready for the oven. 

If the ovens are not ready to receive the loaves, the proving should 
be checked by lowering the temperature of the proving room or 

Eroof box, or by placing them in open air in cool weather. In familv 
itchens the loaves are sometimes placed in an ice box to accomplish 
this purpose. 

60. Baking. — Great care must be exercised to have the ovens 
ready at the proper time. The proper temperature back in the 
ovens is from 400° to 450° F., and if a pyrometer is not provided, the 
temperature should be tested with the nand or by putting a spoonful 
of dough on a tin well back in the oven — it should be brown in five 
minutes. While filling the oven and for about ten minutes thereafter 
or longer, depending upon the temperature of the oven, the oven 
damper shoula be left open to carry off moisture and such dust as 
may be raised in the oven. Incidentally, the temperature of the 
oven is lowered very slightly, giving the loaves a better chance to 
spring up from the bottom before the framework is fixed. 

It will be noted that the dough has been proving constantly from 
the setting of the sponge until the loaves have been placed m the 
ovens, about doubling m volume in the sponge, dough, and in the 
loaves. In the oven the change is even more remarkable, as the 
loaves nearly double in size in from fifteen to twenty minutes. (Pars. 
52, 53.) 

During the proving process the yeast plant has been growing con- 
tinuously, ana the carbonic gas, liberated as a result of fermentation, 
has produced the increased size and porous structure. When the 
loaves are placed in the oven, the heat penetrates to the center, 
killing the yeast plant and, in consequence, arresting the fermenta- 
tion, but the gas already formed expands, rapidly increasing the size 
of the loaf. The loaves should brown in from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. If the oven is too hot, the crust will become dark and 
thick and before there has been sufficient time for the dough within 
to become properly baked the loaves will be heavy; p:ummy streaks 
will be found near the center, and large blow holes will have formed 
within. 



52 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

61. The crust is formed on account of the intense heat to which 
the outside of the loaf has been subjected, together with the incident 
drying out of this portion. Here the gluten is changed into a stiff 
gum and the starch into a more digestible form. The brown color is 
due to drying out of the exposed surface and to a certain chemical 
change in the starch, known as "caramelization.** Within the loaf 
the conditions are entirely different. The crumb near the crust is 
subjected to a temperature as high as 300° F. or more, being bathed 
in superheated steam. The temperature grows less as we approach 
the center, where it seldom rises above 200° F, although maximum 
dough thermometers have registered as high as 212° F. — the highest 
temperature of free steam in contact with moisture and not sub- 

t'ected to pressure. Under the action of this temperature the gluten 
)ecome8 sufficiently stiff to give permanent shape and form to the 
loaf and to retain tne cellular structure even after the gas which has 
produced it has escaped. From what has just been said it is easy 
to undorstand why the crumb of the bread presents such a uniform 
appearance throughout instead of being baked to different degrees 
of nardness from the crust toward the center, as one might very 
naturally expect. 

62. The time of baking in a temperature of about 385° F. may be 
assumed to be about ten minutes for each inch of depth of the loaf, 
as measured after springing up in the oven. 

As it does not take so long for heat to penetrate to the center of 
the small loaves, it is evident that they can be baked in a much 
hotter oven than the larger ones, the loaves being subjected to the 
intense heat for a shorter period. If placed together in the same 
oven, the smaller loaf will bake in a shorter time; therefore, as a rule, 
loaves baked at the same time should be of the same depth. 

Care must be exercised, especially with overproved dough, not to 
lar the pans while placing them in the oven, as this might cause the 
loaves to fall. They will not have time to rise again before the 
yeast plant is killed, and the bread resulting will show soggy streaks. 

63. To prevent too rapid formation of the crust many bakers moisten 
the tops of the loaves with water before placing them in the oven, 
or arrangements are made to pass stoam over the loaves during the 
process of baking. This causes the loaves to run together in a more 
compact mass, and it stimulates the tendency to mold, especially in 
warm damp climates. If the loaves are treated in this manner or if 



MANUAL FOR ARMT BAKERS. 53 

they are painted with water immediately after taking them out of 
the oven, they will present a shiny surmce — much me same as is 
generally present in Vienna bread. 

To produce nicely separated loaves and bread of better keeping 
qualities, in addition to preventing too rapid formation of the crust 
in the ovens, the loaves may be pamted with lard immediately after 
molding and again after taking them from the oven. 

64. Cooling. — After removal from the oven, the bread should be 

E laced on edge (preferably on a slat-top table) to permit free circu- 
ition of air while the gases are escaping and the bread is drying 
out, unless iron racks are provided on which to store it until issue. 
Where conditions require, clean cloths of porous material should be 
spread upon the loaves to keep off the dust and to prevent flies from 
spreading infection. Bread, on account of its porous and spongy 
nature, might easily become a spreader of disease, a point that 
should be borne in mind by parties carrying bread from me bakery 
in open wagons. While in transit .the bread should be carried in a 
closed box or crate, or it should be laid on a clean wagon sheet so 
arranged as to completely cover it and protect it from the dust and 
flies, 

65. Keeping. — Where a bread room is provided, the loaded bread 
racks may be wheeled directly into it. Good ventilation should be 
provided, and an effort made to regulate the amount of bread on 
hand so that none need be issued until twenty-four hours old, and 
generally none should be stored at the bakery more than about forty- 
eight hours. If bread boxes are provided for the storage of bread, 
the following method should be followed: After four or five hours 
the bread may be removed to the cupboards or bread boxes — pro- 
vision being made for a small amount of ventilation during the first 
twenty-four hours, after which all chemical changes will have 
ceased within the loaf. The bread should then be placed in a closed 
box or closet to prevent further drying out. If kept for several days, 
it may be necessary to provide bowls or pans oi water to prevent 
further evaporation. 

66. Stale bread. — ^When bread is taken from the oven, the crust 
is hard and dry and breaks with a snap. If tapped with the fingers 
a distinctly hollow sound will result (providing it has raised well 
and is properly baked "); the crumb is moist and elastic. Within a 
few hours a large portion of the moisture within the loaf spreads to 



54 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

the crust making it soft and tough; the remainder combines chem- 
ically with the crumb, giving it the appearance of dryness. When 
bread has attained this condition, it is said to be staler and until this 
time — eighteen to twenty-four hours — it is generally considered as 
unfit for immediate use. 

67. Slimy or sticky bread. — Sometimes in warm weather bread 
that is several days old may take on a brown color and have a pecul- 
iar taste and odor. The bread becomes sticky or slimy ana may 
be pulled out into strings. This condition in bread is produced by 
a certain microscopic organism often found in the common potato, 
and may exist' in *' potato yeast'* or compressed yeasts in which 
potato has been used in the manufacture. The organism having 
found its way into the bread, survives the heat of baking and under 
favorable conditions of warmth and moisture causes decomposition 
of the bread. As a remedy, keep the bread in a cool, dry place and 
bake in such quantities that it will not be necessary to keep it on 
hand for more than a day or two. Scald the troughs once a week 
and place them in the sun for about two hours. 

68. Bope in bread. — What is commonly called "rope" sometimes 
appears in bread that is not more than twelve hours old. The bread 
can be pulled out into long strings. This condition is also due to 
the presence of a certain potato organism. It seems to develop in 
the cracks of wooden troughs, survives the heat of baking, and grows 
rapidly in fresh bread. Treat as explained in preceding paragraph. 

69. Mold in bread. — ^Mold is one of those minute spores that float 
about in the air and develop wherever suitable conditions of food, 
warmth, and moisture are found. Hence, when the proper condi- 
tions exist for its growth, it will be found to develop eitner on the 
outside or inside of bread. In the Philippines freshly baked bread 
has been known to become moldy in a few hours when transported 
in canvas-covered escort wagons under the tropical sun; it will be 
seen that here the moisture escaping from the bread has been re- 
tained under the canvas and that with the heat present we have 
ideal conditions for the growth of these particular spores. The 
bread must be riven free access to dry atmosphere while becoming 
stale and should then be stored in a cool, dry place. 

70. Sour bread. — Sour bread generally results from certain acid 
fermentations that are set up during the proving of the sponge or 
dough. They may occur as a result of unclean utensils, as, for in- 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 55 

stance, in troughs, where the organisms may have developed in 
cracks that have not been cleaned out, or they may be due to the 
acetic or lactic fermentations that generally set up after alcoholic 
fermentation has ceased, as in the case of overproved dough or 
sponge. Bread may, however, grow sour with age, as frequently 
happens when the undesirable organisms from the air have taken 
lodgment, as in the case just cited. 



Ghapter IV. 

SPECIAL BECIPES. 

71. The following ''special recipes" are those now used daily 
at the Training School for Bakers and Cooks at Fort Riley, Kans., 
and the quantities of rolls, pies, etc., baked is such as to supply 
the demands of the post and at the same time does not in any way 
interfere with the baking of the bread used — about 2,000 rations 
daily. At all points — especially at a distance from towns — the 
bakmg of these articles should be a part of the daily routine, and 
arrangements should be made to take orders through the commis- 
eaxy and make deliveries in the same manner. Troops should get 
their pies, etc., at the same time that they draw their bread. 

72. Eye bread. — Set a sponge, using white flour, as explained in 
paragraph 49, or dip out as much as may be desired from a sponge 
set for white bread. The sponge being ready, take about the same 
amount of rye flour as there was of white flour used in the sponge 
and mix a stiff dough, using white flour for dusting; add carroway 
seed as desired. When sufficiently proved, mold into Vienna- 
shaped loaves scaled at 18 ounces and. place in the proof box. When 
ready for the oven, make about three oblique shallow cuts across 
the top of the loaf to prevent raQ:g(»d tears while crusting, and bake 
from twenty-five to thirty minuter^. (See pars. 12 and 62.) The 
reduction in size of loaf is recommended on account of the increased 
cost of rye flour. For better quality, increase amount of sugar and 
lard used. 

73. Oraham bread. — Made in exactly the same way as the rye 
bread, omitting the carroway seed and substituting graham for rye 
flour. Mold into loaves scaled at about 19 J ounces and, after proving, 
bake in single-ration bake pans. Made in the same size as issue 
bread, graham costing about the same as issue flour. 

56 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 57 

74. Sales bread. — 100 pounds straight dough. Use 75 pounds of 
issue flour, 25 pounds of family flour, 2 pounds of issue sugar (or, 
better, 1} pounds of malt extract, standard, and 1 pound of sugar), 
IJ pounds of salt, 1 pound of lard, i pound of compressed yeast, 1 
gallon of milk, and 6 gallons of water. Make a loaf scaled at 18 
ounces and bake in the same manner os graham bread. If a thin 
crust is desired, cover each ration of bread with an inverted bake 
pan of the size of the baked loaf. This will retain the moisture 
and prevent heavy crusting. Small size of loaf recommended on 
account of the increased cost of the ingredients used, all "rations" 
of bread may then be sold at the same price. 

75. Parker House rolls. — Straight dough for about 150 rolls. 
Flour llj poimds, water or milk 2 quarts, potato ferment 3 pints, 
lard 1} pounds, sugar J pounds (or, better, J pound of malt extract, 
standara, and ^ pound of sugar), salt 3 ounces. With the amount 
of ferment given, the dough will be ready in eight or nine hours. 
The same result would be obtained by the use of 2 ounces of com- 
pressed yeast and 3 J quarts of water. When sufficiently proved, 
take pieces of dough of convenient size and roll out until about f 
of an inch thick. Cut out with the top of a can or cutter, about 3J 
inches in diameter, having first greased the top surface of the dough. 
Strike through the center of each piece with the edge of the hand; 
double over one half upon the other, and place in a bake pan, keeping 
them well separated and edges greased to prevent stickmg together. 
After about aoubling in size in the proof box, bake in a quiet oven 
for about fifteen mmutes. For quicker work the dougn is rolled 
into cylindrical shape under the hands, as in molding a loaf, until 
it is about IJ inches in diameter. Pieces are broken successively 
from the end of the roll in sizes suited to the roll desired, and these 

Eieces of dough are quickly rolled into balls — one under each hand — 
y a rapid inward circular motion. The balls are then greased, 
struck in the middle with the edge of the hand and doubled over as 
before. 

76. Cinnamon buns. — Straight dough for about 150 buns. 11 J 
pounds of flour, 2 quarts of water or milk, 3 pints of ferment (or 2 
ounces of compressed yeast and 3J quarts of water or milk), 2 pounds 
of sugar, 1 pound of lard, and 3 ounces of salt. Mix well and allow 
to prove for eight or nine hours. When ready, roll out into thin 
sheets about 8 inches wide and of convenient length, grease well 



58 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

(except about 1 inch of the inner edge, which should be wet with 
water to make the bun stick together when rolled). Sprinkle liber- 
ally with sugar and cinnamon. Begin with the outer edge and grad- 
ually roll firmly toward you until the roll is completed. Cut into 
len^hs of about 1 inch (depending upon the thickness of the roll 
desired) and place them close together in the bake pan, greasing the 
edges to prevent sticking; or if there is plenty of room, separate 
them well in the pan^ and instead of securing a tall bun you will 
^et one that is flat, as in this case the bun will widen out in proving 
instead of pushing upward. Let prove for about one and one-half 
hours and oake in a quick oven. 

77. Tea buns. — Prepare dough the same as for cinnamon buns. 
When the dou^h has proved sufficiently roll out into sheets about 
J of an inch thick, cut into disks about 3 inches in diameter. Place 
in bake pans, keeping the buns well separated; let prove for about 
one and one-half hours and bake in a quick oven. 

78. Crullers. — Prepare in the same way as tea buns, except 
that when they have proved sufficiently they are fried in an iron pot 
containing several inches of smoking fat. When well browned 
they are removed, using a long pine stick (as a matter of conven- 
ience), and rolled in sugar. 

79. Donghnnts. — Whip together for about five minutes 1 pound ot 
su^, 6 eggs, 2 ounces of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon extract. 
Mix in 6 pounds of flour and 5 ounces of baking powder, adding 
enough water to make a soft dou^h. Drop the dough into the hot 
fat with a basting spoon; each time before using, dip it into the 
water to prevent tne dough from sticking to it; repeat until the sur- 
face of the fat is covered, leaving only room for turning. Turn the 
doughnuts with a clean stick until evenly browned; remove with a 
skimmer and place in the dripping-pan. Sprinkle lightly with 
sugar. Repeat the operation until all the dough has been used up. 

80. Jelly rolls (20-inch lengths). — Mix 1 pound of sugar, 2 ounces 
of lard or butter, 8 eggs (add a little flavor), J pint of milk, 1 ounce 
of baking powder, 18 ounces of family flour. 

Bake in a sheet 20 inches long and 15 inches wide. After baking 
turn it upside down on a sheet of paper spread on a table. Spread 
jelly on tne top surface and roll it up, leaving the paper on the table. 

81. Pie crust. — Take 5 pounds of flour, 2§ pounds of lard, about 1 
ounce of salt, and I quart of water. Mix the lard and salt with the 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 59 

dry flour. Add the water gradually and work just enough to hold 
together. Roll out about | of an inch thick. 

For ].00 pies about 34 pounds of flour will be required. Have the 
tins well greased. When baking lemon, custard, or other pies without 
a top crust, bake the lower crust slightly before putting in the filling, 
providing cooked material is used. 

Note.— A flour with little gluten and much starch (say, white winter wheat) is best 
for pies and pastries, the idea being to make pie crust that is crisp and crumbly in 
distinction to one that is tough. The latter result is obtained by using a strong 
glutenous flour. 



Chapter V. 
POST BAKEBY EQUIPMENT. 

82. Ovens — classification. — Ovens are clsu^ified — 

1. As to the manner of firing, into — 

(a) ContinuoiLs typeSy in which the heat generally passes around 
the oven, rendering it possible to make successive bakings by the 
same continuous fire. In the ''draw plate " ovens, however, heat is 
introduced directlv into the oven chamber by means of the so-called 
** steam pipes.'* Among the former are the Simpkins, Clauss, Peter- 
sen, Dunrkop, etc., and the only "draw plate oven now installed 
at army posts is the Werner and Pfleiderer. 

(6) Intermittent ty^eSy in which it is necessary to draw the fire 
beiore each baking, if baking is done in the chamber in which the 
fire is built, as in the common brick oven and the semicylindrical 
type of the knockdown field oven; or in other types, to let the fire 
aie down at some time while each successive batch is being baked, 
thus requiring a certain lapse of time between the bakings. 

2. As to their portability, into — 

(a) Permanent ovenSy which are generally built of solid brick, with 
no intention of moving them, and weighing as much as 50 tons. 
Such ovens are installed at most post bakeries. They include the 
Simpkins, Clauss, Duhrkop, Petersen, Werner, and Pfleiderer *' draw 
plate," the common brick oven, etc. 

(6) Portable oveiis, which can be taken down and moved. The 
term is applied to the Middleby, that can be taken down tile by tile 
and moved in many days, as well as to the light knockdown field 
ovens that may be taken down and prepared for wagon transporta- 
tion, or set up in a few minutet^. 

INSTBUCTIONS FOB FIRING AND BEPAIBING. 

83. (1) Brick ovens: 

1. Firing .— (a) First time. An ovon that has never been fired 
should be heated by a slow continuous Jire fur four or five days, with 

60 



. MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 61 

all the dampers open to allow the moisture from the materials of 
which it is constructed to escape, then fire heavy enough for two 
days to attain a baking temperature. (If not required for imme- 
diate use it would be advisable to let the oven stand with all drafts 
open from two to four weeks before starting the first fire.) 

(b) Cold oven: Brick ovens, if cold, take from two to four days to 
heat up before they will do good work, and even then the chances are 
that they will not have become equally heated throughout, baking 
top and bottom equally well. 

(c) Daily: For the aaily firing when the oven is re^larly used, 
start the nre at least two hours before baking, leaving the draft 
dampers open. After the fire is well started put in about 2 bushels of 
coal, and after it is about half consumed, close the draft dampers 
and the ash-pit door. Be careful not to make too hot a fire at any 
time, but regulate the dampers according to the draft. Fire boxes 
have frequently been practically ruined in a few weeks by intense 
heat. Keep the fire ''clean " at all times and do not allow the ashes 
to accumulate in the pit. Should the grate bars become embedded 
in ashes, they will warp and burn out. 

All ovens possess certain peculiarities and new bakers can not 
expect to turn out loaves of uniformly good quality until they have 
become accustomed to the particular oven in use. In many double 
ovens, that part near the common partition becomes hotter than 
other parts — likewise the parts of the oven farthest from the door. 
Ilence it is that pans of bread first run into the oven may go to the 
hottest parts, and from necessity may be the last to be withdrawn. 
If such an oven is used to its fullest capacity, some of the loaves are 
apt to be highly browned or even burned before others are ready 
to be withdrawn, as shifting under these circumstances is done with 
diflSculty. Care must be taken to keep pans away from the common 
partition of such an oven and to fill the cooler parts first. 

2. Dampers. — While preparing the oven for firing the oven damper 
should be kept closed. In case the oven becomes too hot the tem- 
perature may be reduced V)y opening this damper and also the oven 
door to give circulation through the oven. When running bread 
into the oven this damper should be opened to draw off the dust that 
is raised and the moisture from the loaves. It should be left open 
for the next ten minutes or such a matter, cooling the oven and 
giving the bread a better chance to spring up from the bottom before 
the immework is fixed , 



62 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

Brick ovens with hot-water connection also have another damper 
to be used in connection therewith and it should be regulated 
according to circumstances. 

After each day's firing all dampers should be kept closed to retain 
all the heat possible within the oven. 

3. Firing from the rear. — Most ovens are fired from the baking 
room, causing unnecessary littering up and annoyance. Wheel- 
barrows of coal, or piles of wood, may be in the way, and present an 
untidy appearance. On cold mornings, when first firmg ovens, 
gas and smoke may escape into the baking room, blackening the 
walls, and rendering work at such times most disagreeable. In the 
larger bakeries the ovens should be fired from the rear — from a room 
entirely detached from the baking room — unless oil or gas is used 
for fuel. It can generally be arranged to have the firing done from 
the boiler room, without extra assistants, where other fires are nec- 
essarjr for heating the bakery, supplying hot water, and running 
machinery. 

4. T-iZes.— Furnace tiles should last about three years. They 
should be installed by a mechanic familiar with such work. 

Water must not be thrown in the oven to cool it. If this is done 
the tiles will crack. 

5. Grates. — If care is taken in keeping the fire clean and not 
allowing ashes to accumulate in the ash pit, the grates will last 
about three years. Any mechanic can replace damaged grates. 

If the casmg which contains the sockets for the grates is burned 
out, a mechanic familiar with such work should be employed to install 
the new casing. 

6. Repairs. — All repairs, especially brickwork, should be made by 
a mechanic familiar with brickwork in oven construction. 

7. Mopping out the oven chamber. — It is necessary, from time to 
time, to mop out the oven chamber to remove dust, etc. Water 
must not be thrown in the oven for this purpose, as this will cause 
the tiles to crack. 

To mop out an oven, tie a gunny sack on a long pole, dami>en the 
sack (not soak in water), ana mop out the oven chamber with the 
damp sack. 

8. Cleaning the flues. — About once in ten days a quick wood fire 
should be made in order to bum out the flues and maintain a good 
draft. "Clean-out" doors are provided for removing such ashes 



MANUAL FOB ARMY BAEEBS. 63 

as acctunulate and can not otherwise be removed. Crenerally it 
will not be necessary to use them oftener than once in six months 
or a year. 

(2) Marshall continiioiis baking oven. — ^This oven is constructed 
by the Middleby Oven Company, of Chicago, 111. The oven with 
outside measurements 10 by 12 feet is designated as No. 30, and the 
12 by 14 feet as No. 40. 

1. Firing. — The same general rules for firing as given for brick 
ovens should be observed, though it does not require so long to 
prepare for the first baking. 

2. Tiles. — ^The tiles are said to be practically indestructible, except 
those of the arch directly over the furnace. These are interchange- 
able, and should one be required for repairs it can be replaced by a 
mechanic unacquainted with the oven. 

3. Grates. — In ordering, give designation of oven. 

4. Cleaning. — The only flue of tne oven that will ever require 
cleaning out is the top or roof flue, and this is easy of access. It 
should De cleaned out with a brush every six months to a year, 
depending upon the kind of fuel used. 

(3) Middleby ovens: 

1. Firing. — (a) First time. An oven that has never been fired 
should be heated with a alow continvxms fire for about forty-eight 
hours, with dampers open to allow the moisture from the materials 
^f which it is constructed to escape. Baking is more uniform after 
several days use. 

(6) Daily. In firing, build fire with damper and lower ash-pit 
door open. As soon as fire is well started, put m as nearly as possible 
all the fuel that is needed for heating the oven. If usin^ coal or 
coke, from 1 to 2 bushels should be sufficient for a single batch; if 
using wood, about one-sixth of a cord for a single batch or one-half 
cord for five consecutive firings and bakings in ten hoiu^. When 
the fuel is burning properly, close the damper in the pipe one-half 
to two-thirds, according to the strength of the draft. Allow the 
oven to heat in this manner for about one hour and a half, then 
close the damper in the pipe and lower ash-pit door, the oven to 
remain closed in this way lor about an hour and a half, in order 
that the heat mav become * * solid " or even . In consecutive bakings, 
after the first, allow one hour for firing and equalizing temperature. 

Care must oe taken that the damper is closed before the fire is so 

20685—10 5 



64 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

low that more heat escapes up the chimney than is received from 
the furnace. • 

Never in any event build or allow a fire to remain inside of the 
lower two doors in the ash pit. 

2. Tiles. — In ordering tiles state whether they are required for 
the hearth, walls, roof, or furnace of oven. If for the roof, state 
whether they are approximately 19 or 23 inches long. If tiles for 
the furnace are required^ give description and rough sketch showing 
shape of tiles. 

3. Grates. — In regard to grates, styles Nos. 1 and 2 purchajsed 
prior to March, 1905, and No. 3 purchased to February, 1904, are 
equipped with round grates, and the order should call for round grates. 
No sketch is needed . Style No. 4 , purchased prior to February, 1904, 
is equipped with shaking grates or bars. Since November, 1905, 
all ovens are equipped with a standard grate. 

In requesting any grate except the round grate, send a rough sketch. 

4. Material for plastering. — Slake one bushel of lime, mix into 
mortar with sand, and work into this mortar about 15 pounds of 
loose asbestos cement. This will furnish enough for tne largest 
Middleby oven. Suflacient asbestos paper will be sent for use 
with the asbestos cement. 

5. Plastering. — Plaster the joints, bottom of the oven, alon^ the 
sides, comers, and ends, as maybe required. When this is done, 
cover the whole of the top of the oven with asbestos paper, each 
strip lapping over the next about 5 inches-, so that there will be no 
chance for the sand to leak through into the oven. Care must be 
taken in putting the asbestos paper over the beams; that is, not to 
draw it so tightly that the weight of the sand will tear it. 

6. Repairs. — It not sure how to make the repairs, instructions 
should be requested from the chief conmiissary of the department. 

84. Dough mixer. — Each day after using, scrape clean and grease 
thoroughljr with about 1 |)ound of lard or compound. 

All bearings should be oiled three times a week. 

85. Dongli troughs. — Dough troughs were formerly made of wood, 
and of such kind (generally poplar) that an objectionable flavor 
would not be taken up by the dough. A wooden trough has the 
advantage of being a poor conductor, and therefore keeps the dough 
at a more constant temperature than a steel trourfi would in the field 
or small bakeries subject to sudden changes. These troughs have. 



MANUAL FOB ARMY BAKERS. 65 

in the larger bakeries, been replaced by steel troughs, which are 
easier to keep clean. The latter are mounted on rollers for more con- 
venient use m connection with the dough mixer and for running in 
and out of the proving room. 

Sourness in bread is frequently caused by particles of dough 
becoming lodged in the cracks of wooden troughs, souring and setting 
up acid fermentations in dough that is afterwards set in the trough. 
Wooden troughs must be frequently washed with hot water and lye, 
thoroughly rinsed and dried — preferably in the sun. Steel troughs 
are so constructed that they are readily cleaned with a scraper and 
brush, and there are no cracks in which the dough can lodge and 
become sour. (See pars. 23 and 70.) Steel dough troughs are gen- 
erally kept in the baking or mixing room with a temperature of 80° 
F. or more, and consequently can not as a rule be oi a much lower 
temperature than the dough or sponge. It does not therefore 
necessarily reduce the temperature of the dough, as is sometimes 
stated, but is simply cold to the touch for the reason that it is a good 
conductor. 

86. Molding table. — ^Molding tables should be constructed of the 
same material as wooden troughs. For large bakeries, where many 
bakers are employed, the table should be broad and set out in the 
room so that the bakers may work on both sides of it. Where there 
are but few bakers, the table should be smaller and built with a flange, 
as indicated in illustration. The flange is for the purpose of prevent- 
ing the dough from spreading and falling to the floor. 

87. Proof room and proof box. — In the larger bakeries proof 
rooms are generally provided, and the bread as soon as molded is rolled 
into the room on specially constructed "proof racks." The room 
isgenerall V heated with free steam and kept at a temperature of about 
8(r F. The proof room is also a great convenience for proving the 
sponge and dough; the sponge is set, or the dough kneaded, in a con- 
venient place at a moderate temperature and the trough, mounted 
on rollers, is run into the proof room, where the dough will prove 
most satisfactorily under tne fixed and favorable conditions pro- 
vided. Especially is the proof room appreciated in cold and un- 
certain weather, when it is difficult or impossible to keep the tem- 
perature of the baking room at the same even temperature. (See 
par. 58.) 



66 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 







vU,. ,., 




iiigsBara 









MOLDING TABLE. 



Material. — Preferably poplar. 

Capacity. A bout 6(K) rations. 

JJimcTuiom. LciiKth 16 feet, width 4 feet, height 2 feet 10 inches. Flange 8 inches 
high. 

T lie top and flangf are of 2-inch lumber, thoroughly seasoned; the supporting frame 
wtroiiK Hiid firm. ' 

I'lin.H whon not in use are tebscoped and placed bottom side up on subshelf— this 
prpventfl duHt from .settling on the inside of pans. 



I 



"m ^ I 'C 








*/ 



V ' 






Afatcrial. I'referably poplar. 

Capacity. A lx)ut 5(X) rations. 

Jnxide dimeruionn. Length 14 feet fi Inches, width at top 26 inches, at bottom 22 
Inches, top flange 8 Inches hlfjh. Inside raised 10 Inches above the floor by means of 
supports. The trough proper Is con.structed of 2-Inch lumber. The top is provided 
with two lids of 1-Inch lumber, each covering one-half of the trough and provmed with 
strong hinges. Two dam boards are provided to fit the trough— they are of 2-iiich 
poplar. 

At the smaller posts proof rooms are not generally provided, and 
proof boxes are supplied instead. A proof dox consists essentially 



UANUAL K>K ARMY fiARBRS. 67 

of a box or cupboard that is practically air-tight; several ghelvee of 
Blats are provided tor supporting the pans anil pennittinc free circu- 
lation of such heat and steam as may be generated tor heating the 






l' 


1 


fl 



BREAD BOX. 
Iniiit dinuiuliHif.— SO Inches high. 90 inches wide, 36 [aches def r, about 2S Inches 
I cumpnctmenls b; h solid partition through the middle. 



between Velvet. 
Boidi ■■ ■■ 
On each 

Capacily.— About 1,0C0 tatloaa. 



be placed on the eteel racks as soon as it comes from the oven and be 
wheeled into the bread room, where it remains undisturbed until 
iseued. If a bread room is not provided, the bread must be cared 
for in bread boxes or cloeels, as explained in paragraph 65. 



68 MANUAL FOR ARHT BAKERS. 

89. Fixtures. — ^Wooden shelving, cupboards, bread boxes, etc., 
are ^reat cockroach and vermin gatherers and so far as possible 
should be done away with. 

It is recommended that sinks be set out from the wall, that pan 
racks be made of metal and set on wheels, and that when practica- 
ble a bread room be provided so that the bread may be issued from 
the racks upon which it is placed when drawn from the oven. 

90. Number of bakers required. — ^One baker should be able to 
handle 250 rations of bread, two bakers 700 rations, three bakers 1,000 
rations, providing they are not required to attend to any other duty. 
In addition, there should be an apprentice. 

91. Daily routine, etc. — The post oakery should be scrupulously 
neat. On account of the nature of their work, bakers must batJie 
daily, making a complete change of underclotiiing. They should 
be provided with 12 aprons and 4 caps each, furnished and laundered 
at tne expense of the oakery fund. 

The necessity for clean utensils and equipment is appreciated by 
every up-to-date baker and is fully explained in preceaing" pa^. 

Each morning, after the molding is done, advantage shoiud be 
taken of the period of proving — about one and one-luilf hours — ^to 
clean up the bakery and equipment, as there generally would not be 
any further littering up for the day. The mixing machine and 
doueh troughs should then be thoroughly cleaned and greased. 
Each time a bread rack is emptied it should be brushed clean or 
washed when necessary. 

Once a week wooden dough troughs should be scrubbed out with 
lye and hot water and then sunned for an hoiur or two. Moldine 
tables and floors should be brushed or swept clean daily and scrubbed 
twice a week. 

The chief baker should be held responsible for the police of the 
grounds in the inmiediate vicinity of the bakery. 



Chapter VI. 

FIELD BAKING AND FIELD BAKEBY EQUIPMENT. 

92. Equipment. — ^The proper equipment for field bakeries, as 
determined by experiment and practical experience, is announced 
from time to time in circulars from the office of the Commissary- 
General. It is based upon the requirements of a regiment of infantry , 
with a view to combining two or more regimental bakery equipments 
to form a bakery for a brigade or division. Detached battalions 
should draw bread from the nearest bakery. - 

The authorized equipment for a regimental field bakery is given 
in the Subsistence Manual. 

A field bakery should be established and operated in connection 
with every post bakery in order that bakers may become thoroughly 
familiar with the field equipment and confident of success when 
required to use the same. 

93. System used." — The straight dough system should be used in 
the field as a saving of time and labor. If using the intermittent 
type of oven, the doughs should be set so as to follow each other at 
a period of about two hours and a half if baking double rations, and 
two hours if baking single rations. 

This will allow three-fourths of an hour for firing and one-half 
hour for equalizing temperature. This has been found to be suffi- 
cient for each firing after the first, for which one hour and a half 
should be allowed. While using this equipment from three to four 
runs of bread will have to be made daily. 

94. Straight fire knockdown field oven. — In this kind of an oven 
a jacket of earth forms an essential part, and the baking properties 
depends largely upon the heat absorbing and radiating capacity of 
the materials used. If the soil is sandv, the jacket of earth may be 
dried out in a few hours and good results obtained, but if the soil is 
of clay and permeated with moisture, it will take much longer to 
^et satisfactory results; especially is it difficult to get a good brown- 
ing on the bottom of the loaves until the oven has been used for 

69 



70 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

several days. Wet clay can not take up and radiate heat of a suffi- 
ciently high temperature for baking. This temperature should not 
be below 385° F. 

The ovens here referred to are called "straight fire" or "draw 
fire " for the reason that the fire is built in the oven chamber, and 
is drawn when the oven has been sufficiently heated for baking. 
The amount of fuel to be used can be so regulated by experience that 
there will be few coals remaining to be withdrawn when the oven 
is ready for use. The fire being withdrawn, the oven should be 
closed uji tightly for an hour or more to equalize the temperature 
throughout. The oven is then ready to receive the loaves, and care 
should be exercised to have it in readiness when they are sufficiently 
proved. 

Great care should be exercised in firing these ovens. Intense heat 
must be avoided^ as it will ruin an oven in a few weeks. A slow fire 
for an hour to an hour and a half produces best results, and an oven 
so fired has been used almost continuously for fifteen months, while 
others heavily fired have been ruined in one month. 

As a substitute for a proof box, the mixing tent will have to be 
maintained at about 80° F., and a suitable proof rack constructed 
from materials at hand. 

95. Size of loaf to bake in field oven. — There are certain dimen- 
sions that go to make up a well proportioned loaf. For instance, 
a single ration loaf about 12 inches long should be about 3 inches 
wide and from 3 J to 4 inches high, while a 2-ration loaf of the same 
length should be about 4 inches wide and from 5 to 6 inches high, 
the height of the loaves depending upon the proof that is given them 
and the temperature of baking. 

It takes a certain amount of heat, about 385° F.y to bake one ration of 
bread, and under the same conditions it would take about twice as 
mu^h heat to bake two rations or a 2-ration loaf. Suppose that the 
capacity of the oven is 84 single rations of the dimensions given and 
that the heat developed is just about sufficient to bake them. It 
is at once apparent tnat there may not be enough heat to bake the 
full number of double rations that may be placed in the oven. In 
the first instance we may consider tnat sufficient heat has -to be 
stored up to bake a sheet of dough about 3^ inches deep, and in the 
second a sheet of dough about 6 inches deep, and the number of 
heat units and the time required will be about in the same propor- 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 71 

tion. From experience we find that a 2-ration loaf taken from the 
oven at the time a single ration is baked will be underdone — a, por- 
tion through the center being a mass of dough. If such loaves are 
returned to the oven and are left in a temperatiu-e much less than 
about SSC, they will be subjected to a dryin^-out process rather 
than to a baking heat, and the resulting loaf will have a thiok, dry 
crust and a soggy interior. Hence, we see that in this particular 
case it would have been safer to have baked single rations than double 
ones. It is evident that the only way in which the heat of the oven 
can be increased is by refiring. 

On the other hand, if the oven is too hot and not carefully man- 
aged, a 2-ration loaf is apt to bo burned on both the top and bottom 
while a single-ration loaf might be baked without burning, being 
subjected to this intense heat for only about half as long a time. 

Single rations of the dimensions given should be baked in from 
twenty-five to fifty minutes and double rations in from fifty minutes 
to one hour and twenty minutes. 

It is evident that if single rations be crowded in a pan we soon ap- 
proach the difficulties met with in baking a double ration and at 
the same time we get a loaf of awkward and irregular outlines. On 
the other hand, if 2-ration loaves are allowed to spread out \miW.ihey 
have about the same thickness as single rations, they can be baked 
with the same facility. 

In any case great care must be exercised while baking in a straight fire 
field ovenj as the amount of heat is variable and not easily judged; 
therefore the door should be left slightly ajar from the time the 
loaves are placed in the oven until they are browned, and looked at 
frequently to see that they are not burning. They should be brown 
in about fifteen minutes and then the door may be closed, and the 
baking proceed with less attention. One shifting at least will gen- 
erally be necessary, and care should be exercised not to jar the pans 
at this time, for the framework of the loaf is not yet formed through- 
out and if the crumb falls away from the crust it will not be restored 
and the bread will be heavy. 

It is recommended that single rations be baked until great facility 
is required in handling the oven. 



s 

J 




5 11 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 73 

To build such an oven a rounded heap of drv earth or sand, about 6 feet long, 2 feet 
6 Inches wide, and 1 foot 9 inches high, should be raised. This is the mold on whidi 
the oven is to be formed. Sand is more suitable for the mold than earth, it being 
more readily removed. Willow twigs bent over and closely wattled together, or a 
flour barrel laid flat and covered completely with earth, will likewise suffice to give 
form to the mold. Mix a stiff mud or mortar, and plaster the mold over 5 or 6 inches 
thick, commencing at the base. AUow one or two days for it to dry and harden, 
plastering up all cracks which may appear. When nearly dry, cut out the door at 
one end ana the flue at the top of the other end. A small mud chimney raised over 
the flue will greatly improve the draft. Carefully withdraw the loose earth or 
sand from the interior, if a barrel has been used for the mold it may be burned out 
without damaging the oven. Keep a small fire in the oven for at least half a day 
before attempting to bake. Dig a pit in front of the oven for the convenience of the 
baker. 

Two men can build this oven in three hours, but it will generally not be fit for use 
for two days. It will last several weeks, and prove very satisfactory. 

This oven may also be built dome-shaped, like the household ovens used by the 
Mexicans. This kind of an arch would be stronger than the semlcylindrical form, 
but with the same quality of material used would not have as great a baking capacity. 

The clay oven is peculiarly adapted for use when camping on swampy ground. 
Under such circumstances it may oe constructed upon a platform of stones or logs 
covered with clay. 



Chapter VII. 

FIELD-BAKIirG EXPEDIEliTrS. 

96. Essential principles. — Occasions are sure to arise when it is 
desirable to bake bread in the field when no proper baking equip- 
ment or no equipment at all is provided, tinder these circum- 
stances the essential principles to be followed in the construction of 
earth or clay ovens must be thoroughly understood, as well as the 
methods to be followed in preparing and preserving yeasts and prov- 
ing the sponge and dough. 

97. Ovens. — The entire principle of baking is based upon the fact 
that for each ration of bread baked a certain number of heat units 
must be provided at a temperature from about 385° F. to 450° F., 
striking the top and bottom of the loaf with about the same intensity. 
The quantity of the heat available must be such that a baking tem- 
perature will be maintained from thirty minutes to an hour and a 
half, depending upon the depth of the dough to be baked. 

Such ovens as are generally constructed in the field must gener- 
ally be of the simplest type possible — that is, of a single chamber in 
which the fire is built and withdrawn after sufficient heat has been 
stored up in the surrounding material to do the necessary baking. 
Such ovens are generally called " straight-fire " or " draw-fire " ovens, 
and for temporary use are very satisfactory, though they are more 
laborious to nandle than continuous ovens. In the construction of 
these ovens the following points should be kept in mind : 

1. The oven must he built of material suitable /or absorbing and 
radiating the heat required in baking. Brick, rock, adobe, clay, 
sods, sand, and loamy soil will all do ii properly handled. 

2. About 8 inches of earth of any kind is required to take up and 
radiate sufficient heat for baking even small batches of bread. A 

? greater depth on top of an oven will cause premature breaking- 
esser amount would not generally retain sufidcient heat. 

74 



MANUAL FOB ARMT BAKEBS. 75 

3. A slow fire must he joUiced in the oven in order that the heat may 
gradually be taken up m the surrounding material. A flash heat 
will quickly heat up the inner lining of the oven and produce an 
intense heat for a short time, but to store up a suflScient amount of 
heat requires a long, slow firing. 

4. The greatest difficulty is in getting a hake on the hottom of the loaves 
in newly constructed ovens, as the heat from the fire rises from the 
bottom, which is further protected by the ashes as they accumulate. 
Especially in damp and loamy soils should a hearth of stone or brick 
be provided to overcome this difficulty. 

5. Soil while dam,p can not take up- and radiate sufficient heat 
between 385° and 480° F. to bake bread. Hence the material imme- 
diately surrounding an oven must be thoroughly dried out before 
any attempt is made to bake. Generally a "slow" fire for several 
hours will be necessary before the first baking can be made, but after 
a successful baking not more than three-fourths of an hour to an 
hour will be required for heatins the oven and equalizing the tem- 
perature by tigntly closing up tne oven after the fire is drawn. 

6. T?i€ temperature is hest determined hy inserting the arm well hack 
into the oven chamher and holding it there as long as possible, counting 
seconds. For a new oven about 12 counts (second counts), will be 
about right, as a little moisture is still present, or the surrounding 
material is not dried to as great a depth as in later bakings, and hence 
the first heat should be a little stronger. Later on 15 or 16 counts 
will be the right number. 



H 

if- 

H 

if 



MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 77 

This is reoommended as a very good and convenient oven. A bank from 4 to 6 
feet high Is the best for the purpose. The roof covering need not exceed 1^ feet. Two 
men ynXh a spade and a long-handled shovel can build it, in light soil, in three-a uarters 
of an hour, if such tools are not available, it may be constructed with trowel, bayo- 
net, intrenching tools, or even with knives. To build the oven, dig down the bank 
to a vertical face and excavate at the base a hole from 4 to 5 feet horizontally, ewe 
being taken to keep the entrance as small as possible; hollow out the sides of the 
excavation and arch the roof unlU tbe floor is about 2 feet 6 inches in its widest part 
and the roof 16 inches high in the center of the arch. Then tap the back end for the 
flue. A hole from 4 to 6 inches in diameter will furnish a good draft. A piece of tent 
stove pipe may be utilised for this purpose. When difficult of construction, the flue 
may be omitted, and practically as good results will be obtained. The time required 
for drying will depend upon the character of the soil; if ordinarily dry, a fire kept up 
for an hour will suffice. 

After the oven has been heated the temperature may be regulated by means of 
the door and flue— opening or closing them as may be necessary. 



HAN UAL rOB ARMT 



BAEINQ IN THE OPEN TRENCH. 
AtrenchtsdUKebgUtereeClongftiidlSlnclieswIileuidabaut llootd^p. A Bit 
Is built In the trench ahout two hams belora the time to bake. A f ?ff ialcut«s before 
the loaves areready the ooals are wlthdntwa and the trench swept clean. The loavei 
(Vlenoa-shaped and trt di; on tha exterior) are carefullr laid In the trencti about 
1 Inch apart, covered wlCh an Iron sheet otany fclad, and the coals, which were drawa 

lop heat most excelkot bread can be produoed, and In an oven of the 
ren 2G ralioiu (shigle) can be baked. 



DOUBLE-BARKEL OVEN. 
IE twoBugBi bands end-OD uid covering wtthab 



couple ofdsva ud then dried out b; 
loratralglit-are knockdown on 



80 MANUAL FOR ARMY BAKERS. 

98. Proving the sponge and dongh. — In order that the sponge and 
dough may prove satisfactorily there must be a uniform temperature 
of about 80° F., and the same may be said of the loaves while proving 
in the pan. Small sponges and doughs may be proved in a fireless 
cooker J if they are of the proper temperature when put in. Fol- 
lowing the same idea a smalt pit may be dug in the ground and heated 
with hot bricks that are withdrawn before the receptacle containing 
the dough is introduced. After the sponge or dou^h is put in the 
pit provided, it should be covered tightly to retain the heat and 
keep it warm. Remember that while the sponge or dough is prov- 
ing a certain amount of heat is being generated as a result or fer- 
mentation (working of the yeast) and this will generally offset the 
loss when the fireless-cooker or pit method is used. More satisfac- 
tory still would be a small cave or closet covered with earth, large 
enough to put in shelving for the pans of loaves. The cave or closet 
should be Heated with bricks or hot water and the door should be as 
small as practicable. In mild weather a box with shelves ^ or a rack 
closely covered with canvas and heated as above indicated will prove 
satisfactory. Greased paper spread over the loaves in a pan will do 
much to retain the heat generated, but alone this will not be suffi- 
cient in cold weather. 

99. Preparation and preservation of yeasts. — ^Materials for the 
preparation of yeasts according to some one of the formulas given in 
raragraphs 35-37 will generally be at hand, and if yeasts are not pro- 
curable on the market, they should be prepared. 

For the preservation of yeasts it will generally be sufficient in 
either warm or cold weather to utilize the fireUss-cooker or pit idea, 
being careful to get a proper temperature for the receptacle and then 
to maintain it by nonconductors." To preserve yeast in hot weather, 
a pit should be dug in moist soil or in a constantly shady spot and 
the receptacle for the yeast should be surrounded with damp 
^unnysacks, 



INDEX. 

[Numbers refer to paragraphs.] 

Acetic fermentation 23, 27-(c) 

Alcoholic fermentation 23,27 

Alcohol in yeast , 31-32 

Alcohol in bread, formation of 6 

Bakeries, field. (See Field bakeries.) 

Bakers, number required 90 

Bakery: 

Daily routine 91 

Field 92-95 

Fixtures 89 

Furniture 89 

Police of. 91 

Baking, general instructions 60 

Baking powders: 

Make bread light 30 

Injurious compounds 30 

Barley malt in yeast making 3^(«) 

Bleaching of flour 20 

Blending of flour 18 

Bran : 11 

Bread: 

Properties of .' 6 

Aerated 30 

Amount produced per 100 pounds flour 66 

Baking 60 

Baking powder 30 

Classification of. 41 

Cooling of 64 

Fermented 41 

General methods of making 23,42 

Graham 73 

Hard 25 

Heavy 24,95 

Ingredients in making 51 

Issued, when 66 

81 



82 INDEX. 

Bread — Ck>ntinued. 

Keeping 66 

Leavened 23 

Left-over dough process 64-(6) 

Light, how made 22 

Making. (See Bread making.) 

Mold in '. 69 

Molding 57 

Most important of foods 25 

Necessity for light, spongy 24 

Proving 58 

Recipes 52-54 

Room 88 

Rope in 68 

Rye 12,72 

Sales 74 

Salt-rising 23 

Scaling 56 

Slimy or sticky 67 

Sour 70 

Sour-dough process 54-(6) 

Sponge and dough process 42, 52 

Stale 66 

Straight-dough process 4L*, 63 

Time for proving and baking 62 

Unfermented 41 

Yeast 23 

Bread box: 

Construction of 66 

Substitute for bread room 88 

Bread making: 

General methods 23,60 

Importance of kneading 44, 60 

Infield 92-96 

Ingredients used in 61 

Left-over process 64-( 6) 

Remarks 43 

Sour-dough process 54-(6) 

Sponge and dough process 42, 62 

Straight-dough process 43,63 



• 



INDEX. 83 

Bread room, generally provided 66,88 

Brick ovens: 

Classification of. 82 

Daily firing 83 

First firing..., 83 

Buns: 

Cinnamon 76 

Tea 77 

Carbonic gas, formation of 6 

Cockroaches in flour 16 

Composition of wheat 6 

Compressed yeasts: 

Fermentation 31-ff 

How made 32-(6) 

Preservation of 32-(6) 

Value of 28 

Varieties of 32-(6) 

Cooling, of bread 64 

Corn meal, in bread 10 

Desiccated yeast. (See Dried yeast.) 

Diastase, element of malt, 22-Note 33-(tf) 

Dough: 

Kneading of 44,50 

Molding 67 

Proving and baking 68-63 

Temi>erature 65, 50 

Scaling 66 

Sour 70 

Bour-dough process 64 

Troughs 86 

Dough mixers, cleaning and care of 84 

Doughnuts, recipe for 79 

Dough troughs: 

Construction of 86 

Wood V. metal troughs 86 

Dried yeasts: 

How made 40 

Varieties of : ' 32-(a) 

Enz3rme8, in yeast, 22-Note. 

Equipment, field bakery 92 



84 INDEX. 

Expedients, field baking 06-09 

Ferments: 

Notes on 22 

Potato 87 

Fermentation: 

Acetic 23,27-(a) 

Alcoholic 23, 27 

Lactic 27-(6) 

Principle of, in bread making 21 

Sour '. . . 22 

Yeast 31 

f'leld bakery: 

Equipment of 02 

Number of ovens required 02 

Numbers of runs required 03 

Systems of bread making used 03 

Utensils for 02 

Yeast used in 90 

Field-baking expedients: 

Essential principles 06-00 

Ovens 07 

Fixtures, construction and care of 80 

Flour: 

Bleached 20 

Blending of 18 

Composition of 3 

Definition of 1 

Deterioration of 4, 6, 16 

Family 6~(6) 

For pie crust 81 

Freshly ground 14 

Graham 11 

High patent 6-(6) 

In yeast 33-(d) 

Manufacture of 5 

Milling ft 

Rye 10,12 

Sifting of 19 

Storage of 18 

Strength of 7 



INDEX. 85 

Flour— Continued. 

Sweating 4 

Temperature when used 43 

Tests of 17 

Wet, not necessarily ruined 16 

Wheat 2 

When using new brands 46 

White 10, 20 

Glladin, In flour. . . , 9 

Gluten: 

Amount of, In bread 3,6 

Importance of, to bakers 9 

Properties of 6,8, 9 

Separating the 9 

Glutenen, In flour 9 

Granite ware, use of, recommended 33 -(h) 

Head yeast, how made 35 

Hops: 

Color of 33-(o) 

Importance of, in yeast making 31-9 

In yeast 33-(a) 

Hop tea, in yeast 32-(c),33 

Indian yeast. {See Rennison's yeast.) 

Keeping of bread 66 

Kneading, Importance of 44-50 

Lactic fermentation. (See Fermentation.) 

Left-over process, recipe for 54-(o) 

Liquid yeast: 

Fermentation of 31 

Ingredients of 32-(c), 33 

How made 32-(c) 

Loaf: 

Light, spongy 24 

Size to bake in field 96 

Lupulin, active element of hops 33-(fl) 

Malt, in yeast making 33-ie) 

Malt extract, in yeast making 33-(/) 

Marshall continuous-baking oven, general instructions 82-2 

Mice, to keep out of flour 13 

Middleby ovens, general Instructions 82-3 



86 INDEX. 

Milling: 

High 5K») 

how 5-(o) 

Mold, in bread 60 

Molding of loaves • 57 

Molding table, construction of 86 

Oats, in yeast making 33-<e) 

Ovens, bake: 

Brick 83 

Classification of 82 

Continuous bakers 82 

Draw plate 85 

Firing from rear 83-3 

Intermittent 82 

Knockdown; field 94 

Marshall 83-(a) 

Material used in jacket for 94 

Middleby 82-(6) 

Permanent 82 

Portable 82 

Rear-fire 83-3 

S tralgh t-flre 94 

Parasites in flour 14 

Peptase, element of malt, 22-Note 33-(c) 

Pie crust, recipe for 81 

Porcelain receptacles, use of, recommended 33-(A) 

Potato ferment: 

Ingredients of 32-(c) 

Recipe for 37 

Potatoes in yeast making 33-(c) 

Proof box: 

Construction of 87 

Substitute for proof room 59 

Proof room, purpose and construction of 59, 87 

Proving: 

In proof room 87 

Of sponge and dough 58 

Rations: 

Double 95 

Single 95 



INDEX. 87 

Rats, to keep out of flour 13 

Rear-fire ovens: 

Advantage of 83-3 

Construction of 83-3 

Receptacles, materials preferred 33-(fc), 39 

Recipes: 

Bread 52-53 

Cinnamon buns «. 76 

Crullers 78 

Doughnuts 79 

Graham bread , 73 

Head yeast 35 

JeUy rolls 80 

Parker House rolls 75 

Pie crust 81 

Potato yeast 37 

Rye bread 72 

Sales bread 74 

Sponge and dough process. 52 

Stock yeast 36 

Straight dough process 53 

Tea buns 77 

Rennison's yeast, recipe for 39 

Rope In bread 68 

Rye: 

The cereal 12 

Value in bread making 12 

Rye bread, recipe for 72 

Sales bread: 

How made 74 

Weight of 74 

Salt in bread and yeast 33-(6) 

Scaling, general rule for 56 

Sifting, all flour should be sifted 19 

Sour dough process, recipe for 54-(6) 

Special recipes. (See Recipes.) 

Sponge and dough process: 

Method in common use at post bakeries 42,49 

Recii)e for 52 



8S XBEDCX. 



>n, omfitiaBS llKVQcable ta_ 22 

Spores, y«aat 26 

Stardi: 

ABHxmtof, in wlieafct 6 

PnnpertiH of 6 

Stodi: yeart how made 36 

Strsoglit docigb proeesa, pntv^fent inciviliaa baJkeries. 42,48,53 

Bagatr. • 

In bread makinjf 45 

In yeast makinj? - - - 29 

Sweating, wheat and floor 4 

Tea, hop 33 

Tests of fioiir .- 17 

Time refjmrftd foT baking - 62 

Tronghs, doii^h: 

Constnif;tion of 85 

W«xl t. metal trongha 85 

Tuba de nipa, snbstitiite for stock yeast 38 

Utemsils nsed in yeast making 33-<A) 

Water: 

Distilled 3»-{*) 

Hard 33-<A) 

In bread 51 

Salt 33-(*) 

Soft 33-<*) 

Use of, in doTighs and yeasts 33-<A) 

Weevils in flotir 15 

Wheat: 

Classification of 3 

Composition of 3, 6 

Hard 3 

Keeping 14 

Milling 5 

Soft 3 

Spring 3 

Sweating 4 

Variet le» 3 

Winter 3 



INDEX. 89 

Yeast: 

Air favors growth 26 

Amount used. (See Recipes.) 

Bean 32-(c),39 

Classlflcation of 32 

Compressed 28,32-(6) 

Ck)ndltions favorable to growth 22-(a),26 

Cultivation 26 

Desiccated. (See Dry yeast.) 

Dried 28,32-(o),40 

Effects of acids 23,27 

Effects of temperature 31-5 

Flour in 33-(d) 

Food for 28,29 

Hastened by the introduction of a ferment 22 

Head 35,39 

General remarks 34 

Growth of 26,29 

In bread 29 

Indian 39 

Ingredients used 32 

Liquid 32-<c) 

Notes on fermentation 31 

Plant, cultivation of .*. 28 

Potato 33-(c),37 

Preparation in field 99 

Preservation in field 99 

Pure culture 32-(o) 

Reduced amount in warm weather 52 

Renewed 39 

Rennison's 39 

Results of growth 27 

Rice 32-<c),39 

Salt in 33-(6) 

Spores 26 

Standard commercial .«**--■»•-•,--'» WlQA^^» 32-<o),32-<6) 

Stock •yjfj\V-,-.C*r..-v.A:.A!:.Y sho,^ 

Tuba de nipa 38 

o 



