m<imm 



TX715 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 






D0D0E513im 




i:i!!Hi'!i!ir't!tt!';i' i-Hj. 







t ♦ »- 






< 



















.0' O. ^v 



>^ ^^^ -.^^ 






..•^ 



'^oV 



.0^ 




Vt^ 






^r^* <j *■ ^. ""*' 



* * 



n' 







^ o'^o'" c^ 
















M C 







.0^ Vt:?^*\#' "o^^^"^'*/ V*^*\^^^ 



o <^ 9^ 













Left -Over Foods 

and How to Use Them 



With suggestions regarding 

the preservation of 

foods in the 

home 



Written by ELIZABETH 0. HILLER 
for the McCray Refrigerator Co. 

KENDALLVILLE, INDIANA 



COPYRIGHT, 1910 
McCRAY REFRIGERATOR CO. 

KENDALLVILLE, IND. 



CCl.A25825sl 






11 



an 
head to use 





I CANNOT say that I altogether agree with the statement, "Scraps are 
accidents to be taken care of, no doubt, but the very last objects on 
which to bestow either expense or labor." The "scraps" or "left-over" 
bits of food that accumulate in the average household, are worthy of considera- 
tion and with little labor and expense are convertible into the most palatable 
viands. There is always some labor attendant on any and all household duties, 
for we have all learned that the Earl of Chesterfield uttered a great truth 
when he said (away back in the 17th century), "Whatever is worth doing at 
all, is worth doing well." I have discovered that this old maxim applies to 
household management as well as all other vocations. 

It is the careless tossing together of "left-over" food and giving the 
creation when finished, a name quite as unattractive as itself, that has caused 
this great antipathy so prevalent among ijeople, for serving or partaking of 
"made-up" dishes. Hash, itself, is a very much abused term as well as the 
mixture thus named. 

This little book of helpful suggestions has been carefully prepared and if 
followed by the housewife, fortunate enough to receive one, she will find 
immediate help over some of the "rough places" too often found in the daily 
routine of house work, where the preparation for such duties has been limited. 

Study the chapter on "How to Measure Accurately, and Combining 
Ingredients," and all the others and you cannot fail to learn, thoroughly, 
the lesson "Left-Overs and How to Use Them." 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

To Market and Care for Food 

Every one seems to have "a way of their own" for marketing and taking 
care of food. There are, however, but two methods of marketing and but one 
proper way to take care of food. 

One of the methods of marketing is that followed by the French and 
Mexican housekeeper; that is, buying just enough for the daily needs and no 
more. The other method is that in vogue in America and England. It is 
buying provisions in large quantities (in some cases wholesale) flour, sugar 
and apples by the barrel, butter by the firkin, canned goods by the case, sides 
of bacon, whole hams, etc. Both methods have their advantages. The 
one adopted by the prud'^nt housewife will be that which best suits the 
conditions under which she lives; the income, the size of the family, and the 
conveniences provided for storing provisions. 

Where the family is small and the home is an apartment, if it is equipped 
with a fine large glass- or tile -lined McCray refrigerator, the problem of pre- 
serving food is not difficult (see chapter on Care of Refrigerator, page 10). 
For the small family, buying just what is needed for the day and no more is the 
best. This method, does, however, require most careful thought, and very 
accurate estimates must be made by the housewife, lest she buy more than 
she can use and thereby sustain great waste. 

Herein lies the necessity for housekeepers in general having a better 
knowledge of food values. For the large family with a generous income, and 
where cold storage provisions are made, buying in large quantities is by far 
the most economical method to follow. Every housekeeper should do her own 
marketing if possible; she thereby becomes acquainted with the market and 
market prices, makes her selections, buying little or much as the case requires. 
In this way she will soon learn the advantages gained by the French and 
Mexican housekeepers' methods. The latter carries her daily supplies home 
in a receptacle made of a gourd holding less than a quart, while the former 
does not hesitate to buy small portions of birds, fish, meats, etc. It is 
obvious that the foreign methods show the greater economy. 



A Word on Food in Season 

Food is at its best when in season. The price is at its minimum and the 
flavor and quality all that can be desired. 

Out of season, all food becomes a luxury and is lacking in flavor as well 
as quality. The provident housekeeper will take advantage through the year, 
of fruits and vegetables, when seasonable, beginning in the early spring to 
put away her stores for the following winter. To these she may add dried 
and canned fruits that have proved by use to be most wholesome and palatable.; 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



Care of Vegetables, Fresh Fruit, etc. 

Fresh vegetables should be cooked as soon as possible after being taken 
from the garden. Where it is necessary to keep them, all wilted leaves and 
unsightly portions should be removed and vegetables spread out in a cool, 
well ventilated place. If placed in the refrigerator, first prepare them for 
cooking, then fold them in cheese cloth, wrung from fresh cold water, and 
place them on the top shelf of the refrigerator. The leaves of such vegetables 
as lettuce, endive, cress, dandelions, etc. may be kept fresh and crisp. After 
picking them over wash and drain, put them in a covered lard pail, and 
place in the refrigerator. Wilted vegetables may be restored by soaking in 
fresh cold water. Cucumbers may be pared and thinly sliced, placed in a 
fruit jar, closely covered, and kept crisp and fresh in the refrigerator for 
several days. 

Fresh Fruit 

All fruits may be kept in fine condition where the luxury of a large cold 
storage room is installed. Where a refrigerator is used, great care should be 
exercised in placing fruits and vegetables in their respective places. (See 
frontispiece, page 2). 

There are some fruits, owing to their strong odor, that should never be 
placed in the refrigerator; these include, bananas, musk -melons, canteloupe, 
etc. Other food will soon become flavored from contact with such fruits when 
confined in the refrigerator or even in a store-room. Milk, cream, butter and 
other fats most readily absorb flavors when exposed to odorous fruits, flowers, 
etc. The greatest care should be given the left-over food. It should be put 
in small vessels (jelly glasses) with closely fitting covers, then placed in the 
refrigerator; there will then be little danger of contamination. 

Over ripe vegetables (especially tomatoes) and fruits should not be kept 
in the refrigerator. Berries should be carefully picked over, and washed, 
when necessary, before putting them in the refrigerator. Strawberries may 
be picked over, placed in a colander or a croquette basket and cold water 
poured over them before removing the hulls. 

Potatoes 

Potatoes keep better and are lower in price before they have been stored. 
It is therefore economy for the large consumer to buy them, early in the 
season, when they are most plentiful. They may be kept in barrels or bins, 
raised three inches from the floor, in a cool dry room or cellar. For the small 
family, where space is a consideration, it is more economical to buy not less 
than a peck at a time. They may be kept in a box lined with heavy paper 
in a cool dry place. 

S^^eet Potatoes 



m 



Sweet potatoes are in season from August to May, and should be bought 
small quantities. The kiln -dried sweet potatoes are the best. These fleshy 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

I 
roots of plants belong to a different family from the white potato, they 

contain a large percentage of sugar and have not the keeping qualities of the 

white potato. They, too, should be kept in a cool dry place. 

Beef and Mutton 

A loin of beef or a side of mutton is a profitable investment for the large 
consumer. With proper cold storage facilities the meat can be kept well and 
is much improved by "hanging." 

Fish 

Fresh fish should be dressed at the market and removed from the paper 
as soon as delivered. Salt should never be sprinkled over fish "to keep it." 
The salt extracts the rich juices and leaves the fish tasteless. Simply cover 
it closely and put it in a cold place. If securely covered it may be placed, 
with safety, in the refrigerator. 

Butter V 

Butter should be placed in the refrigerator as directed above, namely: 
under the ice chamber which is the coldest part of the refrigerator; this space 
should be reserved for the butter, cream, milk, eggs and meat. 

Butter should always be closely covered. An earthen jar, with a close 
fitting cover, may be purchased at any house furnishing shop for ten cents; 
this size will hold five pounds and will prove very satisfactory 

Milk and Cream 

Too much care and attention cannot be given to this food; even though 
it does not sour as quickly in winter as it does in hot weather, it should have 
just the same care. Never allow either cream or milk to stand uncovered. 
There is nothing gained by paying a fancy price for milk which has been 
pasteurized and kept clean, under the most sanitary conditions in the dairy, 
before delivery to the consumer, if the latter does not know how to take care 
of it and leaves it uncovered, in a hot kitchen or in a refrigerator, with other 
uncovered food. There need be no surprise if it sours quickly and develops 
an unpleasant flavor; for both milk and butter will absorb odors and flavors 
w^hen thus exposed, which will render them unfit for use. Make it an 
invariable rule, never to allow these foods to remain uncovered. 

Wash the eggs, when they come from the market, in cold water. The \ 
shells are then clean and ready for use. They are used for clearing soup 
stock, coffee, etc. Eggs, too, should be kept in the coldest part of the ^ 

refrigerator along with milk, cream and butter. • 

I 
6 : 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 




MEASURING CUP MARKED IN QUARTERS 



Ho\^ to Measure Accurately 

A system of accurate measurements is abso- 
lutely necessary to insure success. Scientific 
training has exploded the old idea, that "with 
good judgment and experience measuring ingredi- 
ents by sight will do." The exact quantity called 
for, measured each time in the same utensil 
whatever it be, cup, tablespoon or teaspoon are 
definite guides that must be followed if success 
would be attained. Enameled measuring 
cups marked plainly 
in quarters or thirds 
each holding a half- 



pint, a teaspoon holding sixty drops, a tablespoon 
of ordinary size (do not mistake a dessert spoon 
for this spoon) and a case-knife are the few 
essentials that must be used for measuring 
ingredients in the recipes incorporated in this 
book. These utensils may be purchased at any 
kitchen -furnishing shop for a nominal sum. 




MEASURING CUP MARKED IN THIRDS 



To Measure Ingredients 

All flour, meal, confectioners', powdered and granulated sugar, soda and 
other dry ingredients, that are put into cartons or cans, that are apt to settle 
and in some cases harden, should be sifted before measuring. This suggestion 
is not to be ignored if you would be successful as well as economical, for by 
sifting these ingredients they are lightened and made to go further. 

A Cupful 

A cupful means all the cup will hold ; the cup is filled with a tablespoon 
heaping full, then leveled with a knife. Great care must be taken not to 
shake the cup. All dry ingredients are tossed lightly into the cup, then 
leveled with a knife. 

Measuring Liquids 

Place the cup to be filled on a saucer, and fill it to the brim. A cupful 
of liquid could not be carried safely across the kitchen without spilling some 
of its contents. 

Measuring Butter, Lard, Etc. 

Fats used for shortening are packed solidly in cups, table or teaspoon 
and leveled with a knife. A pair of measuring cups will be found very con- 
venient when measuring ingredients. One for the dry and the other for the 
shortening and liquids. One cup may serve the purpose if dry ingredients 
are measured first, then liquids and fats when such ingredients are called for. 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

! 
Tablespoons and Teaspoons i 

Tablespoons of regulation size are filled and leveled with a knife. A 
teaspoon is filled and leveled with a knife. To measure liquids, a table or 

teaspoon means all the spoon will hold. 
To measure dry ingredients in table or 
teaspoon, dip the spoon in the ingredi- 
ent. When filled, lift, and level with 



..A..'' 



,„.(*«■ 







FULL TABLESPOON 



HALT TABLESPOON 



QIJARIER TABLESPOON 



FULL TEASPOON 



HALF TEASPOON 



QJ)4RTtRTt»SP00ll 



knife, sharp edge of blade turned toward handle of spoon. Dividing with 
knife lengthwise of the bowl of spoon is a half-teaspoonful. Dividing the half 
crosswise is a fourth, and dividing the fourth crosswise is one -eighth. Divi- 
sions are made in the teaspoon the same. Less than an eighth of a teaspoon 
is a few grains. 

Coniblninji Ingredients 

The next very important step toward success in all cookery, is in com- 
bining ingredients and mixtures; and one too often disregarded by the 
amateur. There are three movements considered in combining ingredients — 
stirring, beating, and cutting and folding. 

Stirring is combining ingredients by circular motions, enlarging and 
repeating these motions until all ingredients are thoroughly blended. This 
motion is most commonly used in all cookery, either alone or alternating with 
beating. 

Beating is accomplished by cutting down through ingredient or ingredients 
with a mixing spoon, or a similar utensil, from top to bottom, turning ingre- 
dients over and over, cutting through them until all are thoroughly blended 
and lightened. By this motion ingredients are not only blended, but air, also, 
is incorporated which increases the lightness of the mixture. 

Cutting and Folding means to combine two mixtures, one made very light 
by thorough beating or whipping, as heavy cream or whites of eggs. This 
is a combination of the two former motions. It is best accomplished with a 
wooden spoon made for this purpose. These repeated vertical downward 
motions, made with this spoon, is called cutting, and turning the ingredients 



8 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

over and over, allowing the spoon with each turn to come in contact with the 
bottom of the bowl is called folding. Repeat these motions until the 
ingredients are thoroughly blended without destroying the air bubbles previ- 
ously made by beating or whipping one part of the mixture. Briefly — 
To stir means blending ingredients. 

To heat means lightening the mixture by incorporating air. 
To cut and fold is combining two mixtures (one of which has been made 
light by beating) in such a manner as to prevent the escape or loss of air 
previously introduced. 

Standard Table of Weights and Measures 

All measurements are made level. 

A teaspoon of regulation size holds sixty drops. 

Three teaspoons of liquid equal one tablespoon. 

Four tablespoons of liquid equal one -half gill or one -quarter cup. 

Two gills equal one cup. 

Two cups equal one pint. 

Two pints (four cups) equal one quart. 

Four cups of liquid equal one quart. 

Four cups of flour equal one pound or one quart. 

Two cups of butter packed solidly equal one pound. 

One -half cup of butter packed solidly equals one -quarter pound, or four 
ounces. 

Two cups granulated sugar equal one pound. 

Two and one -half cups powdered sugar equal one pound. 

Two cups of milk or water equal one pound. 

Two cups chopped meat packed solidly equal one pound. 

Nine to ten eggs (without shells) equal one pound. 

Two tablespoons butter (solid and level) equal one ounce. 

Four tablespoons butter (solid and level) equal two ounces, or one -quarter 
cup. 

Two tablespoons granulated sugar equal one ounce. 

Four tablespoons flour equal one ounce. 

Four tablespoons coffee equal one ounce. 

One tablespoon liquid equals one -half ounce. 

Tbsp. — Tablespoon, 

Tsp, —Teaspoon, 

F, G, — Few grains. 

The Refrigerator 

For the preservation of food before cooking, and for the left-overs after 
a meal, there is no appliance placed in the home that is of so much 
importance as the refrigerator. It should be a McCray Refrigerator, a 

9 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



perfectly beautiful, practical, convenient and entirely sanitary accession 
to the needs of the kitchen, the chief essential of its furnishings. 
It should be large and well adapted to the wants and necessities of 
the household, with an ice capacity of at least one hundred pounds. It 
is the best made refrigerator, offered for sale and for the consumers 
comfort, in the world to-day. When planning your kitchen, be sure you 
have a place, well -selected, for one of these refrigerators. Its drain 
pipes should never be connected directly with the sewer, and if possible 
locate it so that the ice compartment may be reached from the outside 
from a rear porch — that is opening out of doors. This will save much 
annoyance from the iceman, with soiled shoes, trailing dripping ice across 
the clean kitchen floor. The refrigerator should be easy of access for 
the cook, for plain as well as fancy cooking, demands many steps. Much 
time and energy is saved by a little judicious planning in locating the 
kitchen appliances. Remember the old adage, "Let your head save your 
heels." 



Care of the Refrigerator 

In giving the proper attention to the care of the refrigerator, there 
are three very essential points to observe; the first, and most important, 
the location of ^the refrigerator, then the waste pipe, and last but not least 
a full supply of ice. If economy is an item in the management of the 
house, then special attention will be given the place in which refrigerator is 
placed — a cool, dry, well ventilated room, conveniently near the kitchen 
that steps may be saved and where the direct rays of the sun do not 
fall on it, and where the iceman can gain access to it without "tracking 
up" the kitchen with his soiled shoes. 

The compartments in which the food is kept should be wiped out 
carefully once a week. If anything is spilled within the refrigerator it 
should be removed immediately. All crumbs, drops of liquid or small 
particles of food should be carefully and instantly removed. 

Once a week the supply of ice may be allowed to run low; the ice 

may then be removed and the ice chamber thoroughly washed, the rack 

^gfA\^g upon which the ice stands washed and rinsed with a solution of sal soda, 

^^J^p the drain pipe and the trap also thoroughly swabbed out with a brush 






^p;^^ attached to a long wire handle, made for this purpose. Pour the solution 
^-;;^S through the drain pipe as far as it can be reached and then rinse with 
clear boiling water. 

The ice compartment should be kept filled with ice. A large piece of 
ice keeps better than a small one and insures much better circulation 
of air. The door to the ice compartment should be kept tightly closed 
at all times save when it is being filled with ice. The fact is that all the 
DRAIN PIPE doors should be opened and closed as quickly as possible. 

lO 



M 

BRUSH FOR 
REFRIGERATOR 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

The most scrupulous cleanliness in all its parts should be found in the 
refrigerator. Food such as meat, potatoes, etc. should never be laid on the 
shelves of the refrigerator, and the habit of filling the ice chamber with meat, 
fish, fowl and vegetables is most unsanitary and unhealthful. 

The Care of Food in the Refrigerator 

When the food is placed on the table in the kitchen by the tradesman, 
the care of it at once falls upon the one who is in charge of the household 
and she must know just how to take care of each article. 

All meat should be removed from the paper at once; wiped with a piece 
of cheese cloth wrung from cold water, placed on a plate, another plate turned 
over it and placed in the position indicated, in frontispiece, on page 2. The 
butter should be put in a jar, covered and placed on the shelf of the refriger- 
ator immediately under the ice chamber. A space should be left on this shelf 
for eggs, milk and cream. Cheese should be removed from the manilla paper 
leaving it wrapped in the wax paper, and placed in a covered vessel in the 
refrigerator. The care of vegetables, fruits, meats, fish, etc., follows 
hereinafter. 

Left -Over Meats 

Beef Croquettes 

IH cups finely chopped left-over 1 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce. 

roast beef or steak. Few drops onion juice. 

M teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

H teaspoon pepper. Brown sauce. 

Process: Remove all fat and gristle from cold roast beef or steak. 
Chop fine and add ingredients in the order given, moisten with thick Brown 
Sauce (made by increasing the quantity of flour called for in the recipe for 
Brown Sauce to half cup). Shape in cones, drip in crumbs, egg and crumbs 
and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with Brown, Tomato, or Creole Sauce. 

Left -Over Roast Beef— Mexican Style 

1 onion finely chopped. 1 cup tomato pulp. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce. 
1 red pepper shredded. % teaspoon celery salt. 

1 green pepper shredded. Few drops Tobasco Sauce. 

1 clove garlic finely chopped. Thinly sliced cold roast beef. 

Process : Cook onion in butter five minutes ; cut peppers in thin shreds 
with the shears. Add to onion. Add garlic and tomato pulp. Simmer fifteen 
minutes. Add Worcestershire Sauce, celery salt and Tobasco. Salt to taste. 
Cut cold roast beef in thin slices and re -heat in sauce. Serve with baked 
potatoes on the half- shell. 

11 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



Delicious Beef Pie 

Line the bottom and sides of a well buttered baking dish with hot, highly- 
seasoned mashed potatoes, to which add two tablespoons finely chopped onion or 
chives; over this, place a thick layer of left-over roast beef cut in small pieces; 
season with salt, pepper, onion juice, one tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce, 
moisten with Brown Sauce and cover with a layer of potato mixture, ornament 
rim of dish with some of the mixture forced through a pastry bag and star tube. 
Brush over lightly with beaten egg. Bake in a hot oven until mixture is 
thoroughly heated and potato is delicately browned. 

Cecils >v^ith I5ro>vii Sauce 

1 cup left-over roast beef or finely 1 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce. 

chopped rare steak. Yolk one egg, slightly beaten. 

2 tablespoons fine bread crumbs. Salt, pepper and onion juice. 
1 tablespoon cream or melted butter. 

Process : Add seasonings to beef ; add bread crumbs, cream or butter and 
beaten egg yolks ; shape in small balls the size of an English walnut, roll in flour, 
egg and crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat, drain on brown paper. Arrange in 
a pyramid on a hot platter and serve with Brown or Tomato Sauce. 

Beef Cutlets 

Chop the flank end of the porter- 
house steak very fine, first removing 
superfluous fat. Season meat with salt, 
two or three drops Tobasco Sauce, onion 
piece and Worcestershire Sauce to taste. 
Shape into cutlets about three -fourths 
of an inch thick ; dip in egg, then in 
crumbs and fry in deep hot fat five 
minutes. Do not brown them too 

quickly. Dispose them around a mound of hot riced potato or well seasoned 

boiled rice. 

Beef -Steak Pie 

Cut left-over cold broiled steak or remnants of cold roast beef in one -half 
inch pieces. Cover with hot stock or water, add one small onion and simmer 
slowly until meat is tender. (About one hour). Remove onion and thicken 
stock with flour diluted with cold water. Season highly with salt and pepper. 
Add potatoes cut in one inch cubes and previously parboil ten minutes in 
boiling salted water. Put into a buttered baking- dish and cool; cover with a 
crust made of biscuit dough, rolled one -fourth inch thick. Make three incisions 
in top of pie. Bake twenty -five minutes in a hot oven. The top may be 
brushed over with the white of an egg diluted with two tablespoons milk five 
minutes before removing from oven. 

12 




LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



Creole Croquettes 

Chop the flank ends of the porter-house steak flne (there should be one 
cup packed soHdly). Add one -fourth cup uncooked rice, season highly with 
salt, pepper and a few grains of cayenne. Wrap one rounded tablespoon of 
this mixture in cabbage leaves which have been previously parboiled two 
minutes. Simmer one hour in Tomato Sauce, basting three or four times. 
Cover closely while cooking. 

Corned Beef au Gratiii 

2 cups cold left-over corned beef cut 4 tablespoons butter. 

in small dice. 4 tablespoons flour. 

2 shces onion, 2 cups milk. 

1 cup celery, coarse stalks and leaves % teaspoon paprika. 

cut m pieces. ^ ^yp buttered crumbs. 

Process : Scald milk with onions and celery. Melt butter in sauce -pan, 
add flour and stir to a smooth paste. Strain celery and onion from milk ; 
add milk to butter, and flour gradually while stirring constantly, season with 
salt if necessary, add paprika and bring to boiling point. Add corned beef; 
mix well and turn into a buttered baking dish. Cover with buttered crumbs. 
Bake in hot oven until mixture is heated through and crumbs are browned. 

Corned Beef Hash 

2 cups cooked corned beef, chopped Salt, pepper and clove garlic. 

moderately. Cream, milk or stock. 

2 cups cold cooked potatoes, chopped 2 tablespoons butter, 
moderately. 

Process : Remove all gristle, fat and stringy parts from meat. Chop 
with chopping knife in bowl. Mix well with chopped potatoes, season 
highly with salt, pepper, and moisten with milk, cream or stock. Melt butter 
in spider, when hot turn in mixture and spread evenly. Place clove of garlic 
in centre ; let cook slowly until well -browned underneath, remove garlic and 
fold as an omelet on to a hot serving platter. Serve with Hollandaise Sauce. 
Garlic may be omitted. 

Breaded Tongue M^ith Tomato Sauce 

Cut the tip end of the cold boiled tongue in one -fourth inch slices, 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper, dip them in egg, then in fine bread 
crumbs ; repeat, saute them in butter and arrange them on a hot serving 
platter, pour over Tomato Sauce. 

Casserole Rice >vitli Veal 

Butter a two- quart brick -shape mould, line it with hot boiled rice to 
three -fourth inch thickness. It would require one and one -half to two cups 
of rice boiled, to line and cover the mold. To one cup of cold, cooked veal 

13 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

finely chopped and packed solidly, add one egg, slightly beaten, two table- 
spoons cracker-meal and sufficient Sauce Veloute to moisten mixture. Season 
highly with salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and one-half teaspoon parsley, finely 
chopped. Pack meat mixture in centre of lined mold, cover with rice, place 
cover well -buttered on mold and steam thirty-five minutes. Unmold on hot 
serving platter, sprinkle with paprika and pour around Tomato or Creole Sauce. 

Veal Croquettes. 

2 cups cooked veal finely chopped. Few drops onion juice. 

}4 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

}i teaspoon pepper. Yolk of one egg. 

Few grains cayenne. -. 1 cup thick Veloute Sauce. 

Process : Mix the ingredients in the order given ; moisten with sauce. 
Spread mixture on a plate to cool. Shape, crumb and fry as other croquettes. 
Serve with Creole Sauce. 

Blaiiqiiette of Veal 

Cut cold roast veal in small strips. (There should be two cups). Prepare 
one and one -half cups of Sauce Veloute, add meat, bring to boiling point and 
serve in a potato or rice border, sprinkle with finely chopped chives or parsley. 

Minced Veal 

Prepare same as Minced Lamb and serve on toast; garnish with half 
a broiled tomato placed on each portion. 

Ragout of Veal 

Prepare a Brown Mushroom Sauce, omit the lemon juice and add one 
tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce, a few drops onion juice and one -fourth 
teaspoon paprika. Re -heat thoroughly two cups cold roast veal, cut in one inch 
cubes, in sauce; serve in a rice or hot mashed potato border. If the latter is 
used, pass the potato mixture through the pastry bag and star tube. Sprinkle 
border with paprika. 

Glutton >vitli Currant Jelly Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup Brown Stock. 

2/^2 tablespoons flour. 5)4 tablespoons currant or wild plum 

}( teaspoon salt. jelly- 

Vs teaspoon pepper. 2 tablespoons sherry wine. 

8 slices cold cooked mutton. 

Process: Melt butter and brown richly in a sauce-pan, add flour and con- 
tinue browning, add seasoning and stock slowly, stirring constantly; beat the 
jelly with a fork and add to sauce; when melted add mutton, simmer gently 
until mutton is heated thoroughly, add wine. Dispose mutton on a platter and 
pour over sauce. Left-over gravy may be used instead of making Brown Sauce. 

14 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



Minced Mutton on Toast 



Few grains cayenne. 
1 tablespoon butter. 
1 cup thin cream or milk. 
4 tablespoons sherry wine. 



2 cups minced left-over mutton. 
6 yolks hard boiled eggs. 
Vi teaspoon mustard. 
J^ teaspoon salt. 

Process: Rub the yolks through a sieve and add seasoning. Add 
mutton, finely minced, and cream. Melt butter in a sauce -pan, add mixture 
and when thoroughly heated add wine. Serve on toast. Lamb may be used 
in place of mutton. 

Salmi of Mutton 

Cut cold roast mutton in thin uniform slices. Cook two tablespoons butter 
with one slice onion, finely chopped, five minutes. Add mutton, sprinkle with 
salt, pepper, and pour over Brown Mushroom Sauce, to which add one tablespoon 
Worcestershire Sauce. Simmer until heated throughout. Arrange slices of 
meat over- lapping one another around a pyramid of fried potato balls; pour 
around sauce; garnish with toast tri- angles. Lamb, veal, duck or game may 
be served in this manner. 

Lamb Croquettes 



1 cup cold cooked lamb finely chopped. 
yi cup cold boiled potatoes finely 

chopped. 

2 tablespoons butter. 

1 slice onion finely chopped. 



4 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup stock. 

1 teaspoon parsley finely chopped. 

Salt and pepper. 

Left-over peas. 



Process: Cook onion in butter five minutes; remove onion. Add flour 
and stir to a smooth paste, add stock gradually, stirring constantly; add 
meat, potato, salt and pepper; simmer gently until meat and potato is 
blended with sauce. Spread mixture on a plate to cool. Divide the mixture 
into equal parts (this mixture will make about seven croquettes). 

Take up a portion of the mixture and make a depression in centre, put 
in a teaspoon of left-over cream peas, enclose peas carefully, shape, dip in 
crumbs, eggs and crumbs again. Fry in (ieep hot fat. Drain on brown paper 
and serve with Sauce Bearnaise. 

Left-over Roast Pork Croquettes 

Prepare a thick White Sauce and season it delicately with a very little 
sage. Add one and one -half cups of finely chopped cold roast pork. Season 
with salt, pepper and a few drops onion juice. Add one-half teaspoon finely 
chopped parsley. Spread mixture on plate to cool. Shape; roll in crumbs, 
Q^^ and crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. Arrange in a pyramid on hot 
serving platter, surround with baked apples. Pass "Sauce Soubise. " 

15 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



Left -Over Poultry 

Chicken Croquettes 



2 cups cold cooked fowl chopped fine. 

Yi cup English walnut meats chopped 
moderately. 

V-z teaspoon salt. 

yi teaspoon celery salt. 

Few grains cayenne. 




Chicken Croquettes 



Slight grating nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Few drops onion juice. 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

y\ cup thick White Sauce. 

Bread crumbs. 

Process: Mix the ingredients in the 
order given ; after adding the sauce 
let mixture cool. Mold in cork shape 
croquettes, roll in fine bread crumbs, 
dip in Q%^ (diluted with cold water 
in the proportion of two tablespoons 
water to each q%% slightly beaten), then 
in crumbs again. Fry in deep hot fat. 
Drain on brown 'paper and serve with 
Supreme Sauce. 



Chicken and Mnshrooni Croquettes 

Prepare mixture as for Chicken Croquettes No. 1. Add one -half cup 
finely chopped mushrooms. Shape, o^^^ and crumb, and fry as other 
croquettes. Serve with a Brown Mushroom Sauce. 

Cream Chicken with Green Peppers and Mushrooms 

Add to one and one-half cups of white Bechamel Sauce one and one-half 
cups of cold cooked chicken cut in one -third inch cubes, one -half cup mush- 
rooms and one green bell pepper, previously cooked ten minutes, the seeds 
removed and the pepper cut in shreds with the shears. Serve in croustades 
of bread. 

Scalloped Chicken 

Butter a baking dish well. Arrange alternate layers of cold, cooked 
chicken or turkey cut in small thin slices and boiled rice or spaghetti. Pour 
over giblet. White, Brown or Tomato Sauce. Cover with buttered crumbs, 
garnish with toast- points and bake in the oven until mixture is thoroughly 
heated and crumbs are brown. 

Chicken Chartreuse 

Follow recipe for Casserole of rice with Veal, using chicken instead of 
veal. Season chicken highly with salt, pepper, celery-salt, onion juice and 
one teaspoon finely chopped parsley. Moisten mixture with Cream Sauce, using 
half cup chicken stock and half cup hot thin cream. Unmold on hot platter 
and serve with Cream Sauce. 



16 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

Chicken Timbales 

2 tablespoons butter. ^ tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

% cup stale bread crumbs. 2 eggs. 

y?, cup milk. Few drops onion -juice. 

1 cup finely minced cooked chicken. Salt and pepper. 

Process : Melt butter in a sauce -pan, add bread crumbs and milk, cook 
five minutes. Add chicken, parsley, and eggs slightly beaten, season with 
salt, pepper and onion juice. Turn mixture into buttered timbale molds, set 
molds in a pan of hot water and cover them with a buttered paper. Bake 
twenty minutes. Turn from molds on serving platter and serve with Celery 
Sauce. 

Chicken a la Bechamel 

1^ cups cold cooked chicken cut in }i teaspoon celery salt. 

one -third inch cubes. ^ teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

1 cup Sauce Bechamel. 

Process : Add parsley and celery salt to sauce ; add chicken and simmer 
gently until chicken is thoroughly heated. Omit the yolks of eggs when 
making the sauce for this purpose. 

Chicken Souffle 

2 cups scalded milk. Vo cup fine soft bread crumbs. 

2 tablespoons butter. 2 cups left-over cooked fowl or 
2 tablespoons flour. chicken, chopped very fine. 

y2 teaspoon salt. Yolks of four eggs well beaten. 

% teaspoon celery salt. 2 teaspoons finely chopped parsley. 

y^ teaspoon pepper. Whites four eggs beaten stiff and dry. 

Process : Melt butter in sauce -pan, add flour mixed with seasonings, 
stir to a smooth paste ; add milk gradually, beating constantly, add bread 
crumbs and cook three minutes ; remove from range ; add chicken, yolks of 
eggs and parsley, cut and fold in the whites of eggs. Turn mixture into a 
well -buttered baking dish and bake thirty -five minutes in a moderate oven. 
Serve with Cream, Bechamel or Supreme Sauce. Left-over turkey or veal 
may be used instead of chicken. 

Salmi of Duck ^^ith Green Peas 

Cut four slices of bacon crosswise in shreds, with shears. Saute in spider, 
add one tablespoon finely chopped onion ; when lightly browned add four and 
one-half tablespoons flour, continue browning; add slowly one and one-half 
cups brown stock, add sprig of mint and let simmer five minutes ; then add 
one and one -half cups cold roast duck, cut in small pieces, and one -half cup 
left-over peas (if there is a cup of peas add them), let simmer gently until 
ingredients are heated through. Remove the mint and season with salt and 
pepper. Serve on toast. 

17 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

Chicken and Oysters a la Seville 

4 tablespoons butter. ^ cup oyster liquor. 

4 tablespoons flour. 2 cups cold cooked chicken cut in 

Y-z teaspoon salt. one -half inch cubes. 

M teaspoon pepper. 2 cups oysters. 

1 cup hot milk. Patty shells. 
)i teaspoon celery salt. 

Process : Melt butter in a sauce- pan, add flour and seasonings ; stir to 
a smooth past. Pour on slowly, while stirring briskly, hot milk and strained 
oyster liquor. Re -heat chicken in sauce. Plump oysters in their own liquor; 
drain and add oysters to chicken. Serve in patty shells or croustades of bread. 

Mock Terrapin 

2 cups cold cooked chicken cut in 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

small cubes. Yq^ grains nutmeg. 

1 cup White Sauce No. 2. i/ cup sherry wine. 

Salt, pepper and a few grains cayenne. 

Process : Add chicken to sauce, rub the yolks of eggs through a sieve ; 
add to first mixture. Add whites of eggs finely chopped. Season with salt, 
pepper and cayenne, simmer four minutes and add sherry. Turn into deep 
dish, garnish with triangles of toast or puff^ paste points. 

Left-Over Chicken with Poached E^^s 

2 cups cold cooked chicken chopped 1 spray parsley. 

moderately. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup chicken stock or milk. 

1 slice carrot. Salt, pepper and celery salt. 

1 slice onion. 5 eggs. 

y\ cup buttered cracker crumbs. 

Process: Melt butter in a sauce -pan, add vegetables and cook five 
minutes, add flour and stock or milk slowly, stirring constantly. Strain sauce 
and add chicken and seasonings. Spread mixture on a buttered platter and 
sprinkle with cracker crumbs. Make five small nests in mixture and into 
each slip an q^^', cover eggs with cracker crumbs and bake in a moderate 
oven until eggs are cooked. 

Minced Turkey >v^ith Poached Cg^s 

To one cup of cold roast turkey, chopped moderately, add one -half cup of 
stuffing finely chopped. Moisten with a sauce made by melting two tablespoons 
butter in a sauce -pan, brown well, add two and one -half teaspoons flour, 
continue browning. Add one cup of stock (made by cooking skin and bones 
of a roast turkey), season with salt, pepper and onion juice. Re-heat turkey 
and stuffing in sauce. Serve on circles of toast with a poached ^^^ placed in 
centre of each ; garnish with sprays of parsley. 

IS 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

Left-Over Fish 

A Simple Luncheon Dish 

Mix one cup of left-over flaked fish with three "hard boiled" eggs, 
chopped fine, and one -half teaspoon finely chopped parsley. Re -heat in one 
and one -half cups, thin White Sauce. Serve in a border of hot riced potato 
or steamed rice. Sprinkle all with paprika. 

Fish Hash 

Mix well two cups each of cold cooked fish, flaked, and cold boiled potatoes, 
finely chopped. Season well with salt, pepper and one teaspoon finely chopped 
parsley. Fry out salt pork cut in small dice. (There should be about four 
tablespoons fat. ) Remove scraps, add fish and potatoes. Stir until mixture 
is well mixed with fat and thoroughly heated through. Cook until hash is 
well browned underneath ; fold as an omelet and turn on a hot platter. 
Serve with Cream or Tomato Sauce. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Fish Cakes 

(Made of Remnants of any Fresh Fish) 

Press hot boiled potatoes through a ricer. (There should be two cups). 
Season with salt, pepper, two tablespoons butter and one egg beaten light. 
Beat mixture thoroughly and add an equal quantity left-over cooked fish, 
flaked. Moisten slightly with Cream Sauce. Shape into round flat cakes. 
Saute in hot bacon fat. Drain cakes on brown paper, first on one side, then 
on the other; a poached egg may be served on top of each cake. Garnish 
with crisp bacon and parsley. 

Left-over Fish en Casserole 

Line a brick -shaped mold with well seasoned hot steamed rice, to the 
depth of three -fourth inch. Fill centre with remnants of cold boiled or baked 
fish, flaked, and seasoned with salt, pepper and slightly moistened with thin 
White Sauce. Cover with rice, place cover on mold and steam thirty -five 
minutes. Turn on a hot platter and serve with Egg Sauce. Sprinkle all with 
finely chopped parsley. A granite brick -shape bread pan may be used as a 
substitute for covered mold, covered with a buttered paper, butter side next 
to rice; tie the paper on with twine. 

Fish Croquettes 

2 cups cold cooked fish. }i teaspoon pepper. 

H cup thick White Sauce. }4 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

}4 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Process : Flake fish with a silver fork. Add seasonings and sauce ; 
spread on plate to cool. Shape, and roll in cracker crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep hot fat ; drain on brown paper. Serve with Egg, Hollandaise, 
or Tartare Sauce. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. 

19 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



Turban of Fish 



2/^ cups cold baked or boiled fish. 

1/4 cups scalded milk. 

1 slice onion. 

1 blade mace or a few grains nutmeg. 

1 spray parsley. 

4 tablespoons butter. 



4 tablespoons flour. 

H teaspoon salt. 

/i teaspoon pepper. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Yolk two eggs. 

H cup cracker crumbs. 



Process: Scald milk with onion, 
mace and parsley. Melt butter in a 
sauce -pan, add flour, salt and pepper. 
Remove seasoning from milk, add milk 
gradually, stirring constantly. Remove 
sauce to back of range, add yolk slightly 
beaten. Butter a baking dish; add a 
layer of fish, sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and a few drops lemon juice. Cover 
with part of sauce,, continue until both 
fish and sauce are used, shaping pyra- 
mid-like in centre. Cover with crumbs and bake twenty minutes in hot 
oven. Serve at once. 




Turban of Fish 



4 eggs. 

^2 teaspoon salt. 

Few grains pepper. 



Left- Over Ham, Etc. 

Minced Ham Omelet 

4 tablespoons hot water. 

Ij4 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons finely minced ham. 

1>2 cups thin White Sauce. 



Process: Beat the yolks thick and light, add seasoning. Beat the whites 
stifi". Add hot water to yolks of eggs and heat again, add minced ham ; cut and 
fold the whites into the first mixture until they are well blended. Heat the omelet 
pan, have bottom and sides well buttered. Turn in the mixture and spread 
smoothly, place on range with asbestos cover placed over flame ; let cook slowly, 
turning the pan occasionally, that omelet may brown evenly. When omelet is 
"puffed" to top of pan and delicately browned on the bottom, place pan in oven 
on middle grate to finish cooking on top. The omelet is cooked, if it is dry, a 
straw color and will not cling to the finger when lightly pressed. Fold and turn 
on a hot serving platter, surround with thin White Sauce. Minced Chicken, 
Turkey and Veal may be used alone or in combination in place of Ham. 

Ham ^vltli Cnrrant Jelly 

Melt one tablespoon butter in a sauce -pan; add one -half cup currant jelly; 
when jelly is melted add a few grains cayenne or one eighth teaspoon paprika; 
add four tablespoons sherry wine, and a cup and one -half cold cooked ham 
cut in thin small slices or strips, simmer gently until ham is heated. 

20 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



Canapes — Mexican Style 

% cup cold cooked ham. 1 tablespoon Chutney. 

}i cup cold cooked chicken. J^ teaspoon curry powder. 

}i cup butter. Salt and pepper. 

1 tablespoon pimentoes. Few drops Tobasco. 

Process: Put ham, chicken and pimentoes through the meat chopper; 
then pound mixture thoroughly in a mortar or chopping bowl. Rub through 
a sieve and add seasonings. Spread on circles or tri- angles of bread fried 
and cooled, decorate with the white of egg finely chopped, the yolk passed 
through a sieve — first laying two thin strips of pimento crossing each at right 
angles. Fill two opposite spaces with the whites of eggs and two with the 
yolks. Garnish with sprays parsley. 



Scrambled £]^gs M^ith Minced Ham and Chicken 

4 eggs slightly beaten. 4 tablespoons milk. 

>2 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon finely minced ham. 

}i teaspoon pepper. 1 tablespoon finely minced chicken. 

2 tablespoons butter. 

Process: Beat eggs sHghtly, add seasoning and milk; add chicken and 
ham well mixed. Melt butter in omelet pan ; pour in mixture and cook until 
of a creamy consistency; stirring constantly and scraping mixture from 
bottom and sides of pan. Roll to one side of pan and turn on hot platter, 
sprinkle with paprika. Garnish with parsley. 

Ho>v to Keep Left -Over Whites and Yolks of £ggs 

In recipes where only the whites of eggs are used, "left-over" yolks 
may be kept by beating them well, then turn them into a jelly glass, cover 
and place them in the refrigerator. Or, as they are broken from the shells 
and are whole, they may be slipped carefully into hot water, just below the 
boiling point, and allow to cook through. Then one may be served in each 
portion of clear soup. They may also be pressed through the potato ricer as 
a garnish over the salad, over Creamed Cod Fish or Creamed Toast. ( Covering 
the yolks with cold water as a means of keeping them has not proven 
satisfactory). If the yolks only are used the whites will keep several days if 
turned into a bowl or jelly glass, covered, and placed in the refrigerator. 

Left- Over Cheese 

Cheese Omelet 

Mix and sift two and one -half tablespoons of flour, three -fourth teaspoon 
salt, one -half teaspoon mustard and a few grains cayenne. Add two table- 
spoons grated American cream cheese ; add gradually one cup milk and three 
eggs beaten very light, without separating. Melt one and one -half tablespoons 

21 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

butter in an omelet pan ; pour in mixture and as it cooks prick it with a fork 
and lift it to allow the uncooked parts to flow underneath ; when creamy over 
the top sprinkle with two tablespoons grated cheese, seasoned with salt and 
cayenne, roll and place on serving platter and sprinkle with grated cheese 
and paprika. 

Cheese Souffle 



2 tablespoons butter. 

3 tablespoons flour. 
Vz teaspoon salt. 

yi teaspoon ground mustard. 



Few grains cayenne. 

yi cup scalded milk. 

4>^ tablespoons grated cheese. 

Yolks three eggs beaten very light. 

Whites three eggs beaten stifi^. 



Process : Melt butter in a sauce -pan, add flour sifted with seasoning, add 
milk gradually, beating constantly; add cheese when well -blended and cooked, 
remove from range and add yolks of eggs ; then fold in the beaten whites. 
Pour mixture into a buttered baking dish and bake twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven. Serve immediately. 



Cheese Balls 



Wi cups grated cheese. 
1 tablespoon flour. 
X teaspoon salt. 





Cheese Balls 



yi teaspoon mustard. 
Few grains cayenne. 
Whites three eggs beaten stiff. 
Cracker meal. 

Process : Mix cheese, flour and 
seasonings thoroughly. Cut and fold 
in whites of eggs. Shape into balls 
the size of a hickory nut, rolling 
them in the hands lightly. Roll in 
cracker meal and fry in deep fat. 
Drain on brown paper and serve with 
the salad course. 



Cheese Canapes 

Spread triangular pieces of bread with French or German mustard ; 
sprinkle thickly with a layer of grated cheese seasoned with salt, paprika and 
a few grains of cayenne. Place on a tin sheet and bake them until the 
cheese is melted and delicately brown. 

Cheese Wafers 

Sprinkle Saratoga Wafers, Zepherettes or Saltines with a thick layer of 
grated cheese seasoned with salt, paprika and a few grains of cayenne. 
Place them on a tin sheet and bake them in the oven until the cheese melts 
and browns delicately. Serve with salad or soup. 



22 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



Meat and Fish Sauces 

Thin White Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter. Y-z teaspoon salt, 

XYz tablespoons flour. Few grains white pepper. 

1 cup scalded milk. 

Process: Melt butter in sauce -pan, add flour mixed with seasonings; 
stir to a smooth paste; add hot milk slowly while stirring constantly, bring 
to boiling point and beat until smooth and glossy, using a Gem %^'g whip. 
Do not allow sauce to cook after it has reached the boiling point. 

White Sauce No. 2 

Prepare the same as thin White Sauce, using two tablespoons flour, 
increasing flour one -half tablespoon. 

Thick White Sauce 

(Basis o£ Croquettes and Cutlets.) 

2K tablespoons butter. 1 cup scalded milk. 

5>^ tablespoons flour. Yi teaspoon salt. 

Few grains pepper. 

Process: Prepare same as thin White Sauce. This sauce is very thick, 
therefore, great care must be taken that it does not scorch. 

Thick Sauce Veloute 

(Used for Croquettes and Cutlets) 

2^/1 tablespoons butter. 1 cup hot chicken stock. 

53^ tablespoons flour. Salt and pepper. 

Process: Prepare the same as thin White Sauce, being careful not to 
scorch while cooking. 

BroM^n Mushroom Sauce 

1 can button mushrooms. 2 cups brown stock. 

4 tablespoons butter. i^ tablespoon lemon juice. 

4 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons sherry wine. 

Process: Melt the butter in a sauce -pan, brown it richly; add flour and 
continue browning, stirring constantly. Add brown stock gradually, continue 
stirring. Add lemon juice and sherry. Heat the mushrooms in their own 
liquor; if they are the very small button mushrooms they may be used whole, 
if larger mushrooms are used they may be cut in quarters. Drain from the 
hot liquor and add them to the sauce. Reserve one half cup of mushrooms 
from the can to use in croquette mixture. 

23 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

Veloiite Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup chicken or white stock. 

2 tablespoons flour. Salt and pepper. 

Process: Prepare same as thin White Sauce. 

Creole Sauce 

Prepare a Brown Mushroom Sauce. Melt two tablespoons butter in a 
sauce -pan, add one green pepper, finely chopped, one small onion finely 
chopped and cook five minutes. Add two tomatoes cut in pieces or one cup 
of canned tomatoes, and ten olives pared from the pit in one continuous curl. 
Cook three minutes. Add the Brown Sauce and bring to the boiling point. 
Add two tablespoons sherry wine. Do not strain the sauce. Serve with 
steaks, chops and Fillet of Beef. 

Tomato Sauce No. 1 

Yz can tomatoes or 2 cups fresh 3 tablespoons flour. 

stewed tomatoes. >2 teaspoon salt. 

1 slice onion. y% teaspoon pe|)per. 

3 tablespoons butter. 3 drops Tobasco Sauce. 

Process : Cook tomatoes and slice of onion fifteen minutes, rub through 
a strainer. Melt butter in a sauce -pan, brown it richly, add flour and when 
well browned add seasoning and tomato pulp. A few grains of soda may be 
added if tomatoes are too acid. Stir until sauce is smooth and reaches the 
boiling point, then pour over Breaded Tongue. 

Tomato Sauce No. 2. 

4 tablespoons butter. Spring parsley. 

5 tablespoons flour. Spring thyme. 

1 slice onion. 1 cup stewed and strained tomato pulp. 

1 small clove garlic. 1 cup brown stock. 

2 slices carrot. Salt, pepper. 

Small piece bay leaf. Few drops Tobasco Sauce. 

Process: Brown the butter in a sauce -pan, with onion, carrot, garlic, bay 
leaf, parsley and thyme. Remove seasonings. Add flour and continue 
browning, stirring continually ; add tomatoes, stock and seasonings. Heat to 
boiling point and strain. 

Egg Sauce 

(DraM^ii Butter Sauce.) 

hVi tablespoons butter. Yi teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons flour. yi teaspoon pepper. 

1>2 cups boiling water. 3 0^^% yolks, slightly beaten. 

Process : Press the butter in a circular piece ; divide it equally in two 
parts. Melt one part in a sauce- pan, add flour mixed with salt and pepper, 

24 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



stir to a smooth paste and add boiling water gradually, while stirring con- 
stantly ; bring to boiling point, remove from range and beat in remaining 
butter, adding it in small bits, while beating constantly. Add egg yolks, con- 
tinue beating. Do not allow sauce to boil after adding egg yolks. 

Supreme Sauce 

^ cup butter. H cup hot cream. 

j{ cup flour. 2 tablespoons mushroom liquor. 

1% cups chicken stock. H tablespoon lemon juice. 

Salt and pepper. 

Process: Melt butter in a sauce -pan, add flour and stir to a smooth 
paste, let cook one minute (without browning), add gradually the hot chicken 
stock, stirring briskly ; add the hot cream, continue stirring. Reduce one- 
third cup mushroom liquor to two tablespoons by simmering slowly, add reduced 
liquor to sauce, add lemon juice and season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Lemon juice may be omitted and a few grains of nutmeg added. Whip sauce 
until smooth and glossy. 

Bechamel Sauce 

lj4 cups highly seasoned chicken stock. }4 teaspoon salt. 

K cup butter. /^ teaspoon pepper. 

}( cup flour. Few grains nutmeg. 

^ cup scalded thin cream. Yolks three eggs. 

Process : Mix butter in sauce -pan, add flour mixed with seasonings, stir 
to a smooth paste and let cook one minute, then add hot stock, stirring con- 
stantly, add hot cream, continue stirring. Beat yolks of eggs slightly, dilute 
with some of the hot sauce. Combine mixture, beat again, but do not allow 
the sauce to boil after adding egg yolks. Omitting yolks of eggs make White 
Bechamel Sauce. 

Sauce Saubise 

2% cups sliced onions ^2 cup hot cream. 

1 small clove garlic ^2 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup Veloute Sauce ji teaspoon pepper. 

Process : Cover onions and garlic with boiling water ; boil five minutes, 
drain and cover again with boiling salted water and let cook until tender, rub 
through a pure strainer (there should be one cup pulp). Bring sauce to 
boiling point, add onion and hot cream ; add salt and pepper. Garlic may be 
omitted. 

Sauce Bearuaise 

Prepare a rule of Hollandaise Sauce, using Tarrigon vinegar instead of 
lemon juice and add one teaspoon each of finely chopped parsley, capers and 
fresh tarrigon. Serve with lamb croquettes, chops, steaks, broiled birds, 
smelt and boiled salmon, cod or haddock. 

25 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

Hollaiidaise Sauce 

Yi cup unsalted butter. yi teaspoon salt. 

Yolks two eggs. Few grains cayenne. 

y^ tablespoon lemon juice. yi cup hot water. 

Process : Work the butter in the hands, in a bowl of cold water, until it 
is of a "waxy" consistency. Divide it into three pieces of equal size. Put 
one part in a sauce -pan with the yolks of eggs and lemon juice ; place sauce- 
pan in a larger pan containing hot water, stir constantly with a Gem ^%% 
whip until butter is blended with the yolks, add the second piece of butter 
and as sauce thickens add the third piece. At this point in the process the 
mixture should be the consistency of boiled custard. Add hot water and 
seasoning, beating constantly. The water in the larger sauce -pan should be 
kept just below the boiling point. 

Sauce Tartare 

To one cup Mayonnaise Dressing add one finely chopped shallot, two table- 
spoons each of finely chopped capers, gerkins, olives and one -half tablespoon 
finely chopped parsley, one teaspoon fresh or one -half teaspoon powdered 
tarrigon. Onion juice may be used in place of the shallot. 

Bacon Sauce 

Melt five tablespoons strained left-over bacon fat in a sauce -pan ; add 
two tablespoons flour, one -eighth teaspoon paprika and one -half teaspoon 
salt; stir to a smooth paste. Add, gradually, one -fourth cup vinegar and 
two -thirds cup hot water, beating constantly and let come to boiling point ; 
remove from range and add the yolks of two eggs lightly beaten. Do not 
allow sauce to boil after q^% yolks are added. Chill and thin with cream. 
Serve with spinach, dandelion, endive, corn and string bean salad. 

Left-Over Potatoes and Vegetables 

Potato Cakes 

Beat two cups of left-over mashed potatoes with a very little hot milk to 
lighten them. Season with a few drops onion juice, salt, pepper, one -half 
teaspoon parsley finely chopped, and one -fourth cup grated cheese and a few 
grains cayenne. Shape in small round flat cakes, dip in flour and saute in hot 
butter (about two tablespoons), brown on one side, turn and brown on the 
other. This mixture may be packed in a brick -shape mold, then turned on 
a board and sliced, dipped in flour and sauted in butter as the round cakes. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled or baked potatoes in one -fourth inch cubes (there should 
be two cups), sprinkle with salt, pepper, and one half teaspoon flnely chopped 
parsley; add a few drops onion juice if desired. Re-heat in one and one -half 

26 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

— • 1 7 

cups thin White Sauce. This mixture may be turned into a buttered baking 
dish, sprinkled with buttered crumbs, and baked in a hot oven until mixture is 
heated through and crumbs are brown. 

Haish Brovii Potatoes 

Cut fat salt pork in small pieces, fry it out and remove scraps (there 
should be four tablespoons). Heat fat in an iron spider, add two cups cold 
boiled potatoes finely chopped, season well with salt and pepper. Toss 
potatoes until well mixed with fat, cook four minutes, tossing constantly ; then 
press to one side of the spider to form an omelet. When well browned 
underneath turn on to a hot serving dish, top side down. This gives potatoes 
the appearance of a folded omelet. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Cook one onion, thinly sliced, in three tablespoons butter until delicately 
browned. Remove onion and keep in a warm place. Add three cups cold 
boiled potatoes cut in slices, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and stir until well 
mixed with butter. Press to one side of spider and let brown richly under- 
neath, then sprinkle onions over potatoes, let heat thoroughly, then turn on a 
hot serving platter top side down ; sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 
Cooking the onion separately lessens the danger of burning the onion. 

Burr Oak Farm Potatoes 

Slice four medium size cold boiled potatoes. Put a layer in the bottom of 
a well buttered baking dish, sprinkle with a little onion juice, salt and 
pepper; slice over potatoes, "hard boiled" eggs. Sprinkle eggs with salt and 
pepper. Repeat until eight eggs and potatoes have been used. Pour over 
two cups thin White Sauce, cover with buttered crumbs and place in oven 
until heated throughout and crumbs are brown. 

Potato Croquettes 

2 cups hot riced potatoes. ]i teaspoon celery salt. 

2 tablespoons butter. Few grains cayenne. 

}i teaspoon salt. Few drops onion juice. 

Yz teaspoon white pepper. Yolk one egg. 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

Process : Mix ingredients in the order given ; beat mixture thoroughly. 
Spread on plate to cool. Shape and dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs again, 
and fry in deep hot fat. Drain on brown paper. Arrange in a pyramid on a 
folded napkin, garnish with parsley. 

German Fried Potatoes 

Slice cold boiled potatoes one -eighth an inch thick (there should be two 
and one -half cups). Put four tablespoons "fried out" salt pork fat in an 
iron spider; when hot, add one sliced onion, cook until onion is delicately 

27 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND H O W T O USE THEM 

, « 

browned- remove onion and keep warm, add potatoes, season with salt and 
pepper mix thoroughly with fat, shaking the spider occasionally when potatoes 
are browned, add onion ; when thoroughly mixed and heated, turn mto hot 

dish and serve at once. 

Potatoes Delmonico 

Arrange creamed potatoes in layer, in a buttered baking dish, adding a 
sprinkle of grated cheese to each layer, a shght sprinkle of salt and paprika 
or a few grains cayenne. There should be plenty of Cream Sauce mixed with 
the potatoes. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a hot oven until mix- 
ture is heated throughout and crumbs are brown. 

Stuifed Peppers 

1 medium size onion, finely chopped. ,^3 cup Brown Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter. 3 tablespoons fine soft bread crumbs. 
4 tablespoons mushrooms, finely chopped. Salt, pepper, few grains cayenne. 

4 tablespoons left-over ham, finely 6 green bell peppers, 
chopped. Buttered cracker crumbs. 

Process • Cook onion in butter four minutes, add mushrooms and ham, 
cook two minutes, add Brown Sauce, bread crumbs and seasonmg. Cut a 
slice from the stem ends of peppers, remove seed and white portions Cover 
with boiling water, parboil eight minutes. Drain. Fill peppers with cooked 
mixture, cover with crumbs and bake in buttered Gem cups m the oven ten 
minutes! Serve on rings of toast with Brown Sauce. 

Fried Celery 

Remove the outer stalks of celery, cut in four inch pieces. Parboil eight 
minutes. Drain thoroughly, dip in batter and fry in deep fat. Dram on 
brown paper and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

Batter- Sift one-half cup bread flour with one-fourth teaspoon salt, 
one-eighth teaspoon celery salt, a few grains pepper, add six tablespoons 
milk and one egg lightly beaten. 

Creamed Celery With Cheese 

Wash, scrape and cut the outer stalks of celery into three -fourth inch 
pieces; cook in boiling salted water to cover until tender. Dram. (There 
should be two and one-half cups). Add one and one-half cups thm White 
Sauce to which add one-fourth cup grated cheese and a few grains cayenne. 

Com Oysters 

Grate the left-over boiled corn from the cob (there should be one cup 
of pulp) Add one lightly beaten egg, four and one -half tablespoons flour, 
season well with salt, pepper and one teaspoon sugar. Drop by spoonf uls on 
a hot well greased griddle and cook as griddle cakes. They should be the 
size of New York Counts. 



28 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 



Stale Bread and Its Uses 

Bread and Butter Piiddiiiji^ 

Fill a buttered baking dish with slices of bread from which the crusts 
are trimmed off, spread each slice generously with butter and turn buttered 
side. Sprinkle between each layer freshly -grated cocoanut. Beat three eggs 
slightly, add two -thirds cup sugar, one -fourth teaspoonful salt and one quart 
scalded milk ; strain this mixture over bread, add a slight grating of nutmeg 
over top of pudding, let stand thirty minutes. Bake slowly one hour in a 
moderate oven. Brown the top richly and serve hot with Creamy Vanilla or 
Hard Sauce. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

2 cups stale bread crumbs. 3 eggs. 

1 quart scalded milk. ^^ teaspoon salt. 

2 squares Bakers chocolate. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

% cup sugar. Vs cup blanched and shredded almonds. 

Process : Soak bread crumbs in scalded milk thirty minutes ; melt choco- 
late over hot water, add half the sugar and sufficient milk from the bread 
and milk mixture to pour readily; add to bread with remaining sugar, salt 
and vanilla, add eggs, slightly beaten, and shredded nuts. Turn in a buttered 
pudding dish and bake slowly one hour in a moderate oven. Serve with Hard 
or Cream Sauce. 

. German Toast 



4 eggs. 

y2 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar. 



1 cup milk. 
8 slices stale bread. 
Powdered sugar and few grains cin- 
namon. 

Process: Cut bread in one -third inch slices, remove the crusts. Beat 
egg^ slightly, add ingredients in the order given. Soak bread in mixture 
until soft. Cook on hot, well -greased griddle, brown on one side, turn and 
brown on the other. Add more butter if necessary. Remove from griddle to 
serving dish, sprinkle lightly with powdered sugar and a few grains cinna- 
mon. Serve for breakfast or luncheon. 



Brown Betty 



1 small, stale, bakers loaf. 

^^ cup butter. 

1 quart, sliced, tart apples. 



yi cup sugar. 
% teaspoon nutmeg. 
Grated rind ^j lemon. 
Juice one lemon. 



Process : Remove the crust from bread and cut in thick slices, grate each 
slice by rubbing it through the croquette basket or colander. Melt butter in 
a sauce-pan, add crumbs and toss lightly with a fork, cover bottom of well- 
buttered baking dish with crumbs and cover with one half the apples, 
sprinkle with half the sugar, nutmeg, lemon rind and juice mixed together ; 



29 




LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

repeat, having layer crumbs on top. Bake forty -five minutes in a moderate 
oven, cover with a buttered paper the first thirty minutes of cooking. Remove 
paper and brown richly, 

Apple Broad Piiddiiii^ 

Cover the bottom of a well -buttered baking dish to one -third its depth 
with Apple Sauce, arrange stale bread spread generously with soft butter, 
crusts removed and bread cut in small pieces and fit closely together over 
Apple Sauce. Sprinkle generously with sugar mixed with one -half teaspoon 
cinnamon ; dot over top with two tablespoons butter. Bake thirty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. Serve with Hard Sauce or sugar and cream. 

Croiistades of Bread 

Shape stale bread cut in two and 
one -half inch slices into boxes, using 
a biscuit cutter ; with a smaller cutter 
stamp out centre, being careful not to 
cut through. The wall of boxes should 
be one -third inch thick. Place boxes 
„,.,„. on a plate and baste them with egg 

CroHstades of Bread ^ _ ^'^ 

diluted with cold milk, using two 
tablespoons milk to each egg. Season egg with salt, and when each box is 
well -soaked, drain, lift carefully with a spatula, place in a croquette basket 
and fry in deep, hot fat. Drain on brown paper and fill with creamed 
chicken, sweetbreads, mushrooms, brains, etc. 

Pudding Sauces 

Creamy Sauce 

2 cups whipped cream. Brandy, sherry wine and a few grains 

Confectioner's sugar. nutmeg or vanilla extract. 

Process : Sweeten cream to taste (will require about two -thirds cup 
sugar), add flavoring desired, constantly beating mixture very slowly with a 
wire whisk. 

Vanilla Sauce 

^ cup sugar. 1 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. 2 tablespoons butter. 

}i teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Process : Sift together sugar, cornstarch and salt. Add, gradually, 
boiling water, beating continually; cook six minutes. Remove from range and 
beat in butter, adding it in small bits. Add vanilla, beat thoroughly; keep 
hot over hot water. Lemon and Orange Sauce are made same as foregoing, 
using one teaspoon of lemon or orange extract in place of vanilla. A few 
grains of nutmeg may be added to Lemon Sauce. 

30 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

Peach Canapes 

Saute circles of stale sponge cake in butter until delicately browned. 
Rub the left-over canned peaches drained from their liquor through a sieve, 
sweeten with powdered sugar, add a few drops lemon juice and a slight 
grating nutmeg. Pile peach pulp on circles of cake, mask with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored, delicately, with peach extract. Serve as dessert. 

Hard Sauce 



^ teaspoon vanilla. 
^ teaspoon lemon. 



Vi cup butter. 

1 cup Confectioner's sugar. 

Process : Cream butter, add sugar gradually, while stirring constantly. 
Add extracts, drop by drop, while beating. Brandy may be used instead of 
extracts. Force mixture through a pastry bag and star tube on to a cold 
plate, sprinkle with nutmeg. 

Coffee Jelly 

2 tablespoons granulated. 1 cup boiling water. 

gelatin. 6 tablespoons sugar. 

^4 cup cold water. 2 cups left-over coffee. 

% teaspoon vanilla. 

Process: Soak gelatin thirty 
minutes in cold water, dissolve in 
boiling water, strain through sieve, 
add to sugar and coffee, add vanilla. 
Turn into a ring mold and chill. 
Unmold on a cold glass platter and 
fill centre of mold with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored, 
delicately, with vanilla. 




Coffee Jelly 



Candied Orange Peel 



Save the left-over peel from four large thinned -skin oranges cut in 
quarters or halves. Cover with cold salted water, let stand over night. In 
the morning drain and rinse thoroughly.. Put peel in a sauce-pan and cover 
with cold water, bring to boiling point, let boil five minutes, pour off water 
and cover with fresh boiling water; repeat three times. Then add boiling 
water and let cook until tender. Drain and remove the white portion, using 
a teaspoon. Cut peel in narrow shreds, using the shears. Prepare a syrup 
of two cups sugar and one -half cup water, skim syrup if necessary, and let 
cook until it spins a thread when dropped from the tip of a wooden spoon. 
Simmer shreds of orange peel in syrup until they have absorbed nearly all 
the syrup; then boil rapidly, stirring until each shread is well coated with 
sugar. Drain and coat with fine granulated sugar. Let dry in a warm oven. 
Then store in tin left over crystalized ginger or marshmallow boxes. 



31 



LEFT-OVER FOODS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

In Conclusion — Let Nothing Be Wasted 

That small piece of ham left from breakfast, finely minced, will doubtless 
make one tablespoonful. when finely minced, for your omelet. 

The half-cup of creamed onions left from dinner, if rubbed through 
a sieve, added to thin white sauce and served with "hard boiled" eggs, will 
furnish a delicious dish for luncheon or supper. 

The small bits of jelly added to a berry pie will materially improve the 
richness of its juice, or it may be added to the mince meat, but should never 
be thrown away. The tablespoonful of apple and other sauces left-over may 
be used in a similar way. 

The leaves and roots of celery, as well as the outer stocks, may all be used 
either for making cream of celery soup or for flavoring the soup stock. 

Broken crackers that cannot be served on the table, may be crushed 
moderately and used for stuffing, or may be rolled fine and used for crumb- 
ing oysters, scallops or fish, croquettes, etc. 



There need be no waste of stale bread in the kitchen. For stale bread 
can be used in an infinite variety of ways. Only the thin brown crust may 
be removed and this makes good food for the chickens. Smalls bits of bread 
should be dried in the warming oven, covered with a piece of cheese cloth to 
protect it from dust, then passed through the meat chopper and sifted. The 
fine crumbs are used for crumbing purposes, and the coarse crumbs for the 
top of Au Gratin dishes. 

The onion from which a slice ^^as been cut, should be turned "cut side" 
down on a saucer, and covered with a cup or small bowl, and set aside in a 
cool place for future use. 

When using garlic, break off one section, called "a clove of gadic," 
in cooking parlance. The remainder of bulb will keep some time if kept dry. 

The outer leaves of lettuce, if not wilted and torn, may be cut in shreds 
or ribbons and used to garnish salad or cold meat dishes. 



Stale cheese has many possibilities, as shown in the chapter on "How to 
Use Stale Cheese." If kept in a cool place, in a covered dish, it may be 
grated and ready for future use. 

The stale rye bread makes delicious stuffing, and is also used for making 
puddings. 

Brown bread may be dried, then crumbed and used in ice cream or 
bisque, and will take the place of macaroons very palatably. ii\t 2 B B 

32 - >» 



^ "o-"' ^^V 






K^" ^ 



y V. 



-^^ 

o^ 




0> ^ 


















'^^ A^ 










z 









• » 1 ' 



0- 






/i.^ "^^^ ^^ *v 









>t. 






v<^ 



" o 






"^o 



,^-^ ^^ 



'\^> 



^ 






'>^ 









<. '^, 1 « 



i » « 



■^ ^^„ 



-•N>-1-, 









* o H o ° -^^ 



'-' . 5 



O^ ^ » . » 







^■' .':;?j^: 



= « " ^^^ 



• ^0•' 






'■> 















^o ^S 









>^ 




^> 



-^O 



OV t • • , •< 






C' 






-;?' 



> V ' # 













\%^. 







li!'::;:';i;;i:i!:''iH! 




5<iiiiiii!"-:;;'''fi.ii'.: ijiti 



